m. 



w^:a' ^v 



X 




'VV 



'C 



*r» 







A*» 



C-N 



;^^i-_v 



,» iiBs 






^* 



^K^>4 



'0 i 9 ♦' 



5^/jr^'. 



^;^ 



35th Congress, ) SENATE. \ Mrs. Doc. 

Is;; Session. S I ^^- '^^^' 



ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSOIIAN INSTITUTION 



SHOWING THE 



OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE 
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1857. 



"WASHINGTON: 
WILLIAM A. HARRIS, PRINTER. 

1858. 



In Senate of the United States, 

June 3, 1858. 



Resolved That ten thousand additional copies of the Eeport of the Board of Regents of 
thfsSsonian Institution for the year 1857 he printed ; five thousand for the u. th 

senate, and five thousand for the use of ^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
a^^rp^te mimber of imges contained m said report bhall not exceea loui 
JSnal wTtLt^oodcutsor plate., exoept those furnished hy the Insftufon :^^ 
!™«/ ;'." That the entire amonntof copy necessary to complete said Report he pW 
r.hfh™as,;f the superintendent of the Pubiic Prhrting hefore the conrmencen.ent of 
printing any portion of said Eeport. 

ASBURY DICKINS, Secretary. 



LETTER 



SECRETARY OE THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

COMMUNICATINQ 

The Annual Report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the 
Smithsonian Institution for the year 1857. 



May 27, 1858.— Read. 

June 12, 1858. — Ordered to be printed ; and that 10,000 additional copies be printed, 5,000 
of which for the use of the Senate, and 5,000 for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, May 26, 1858. 
Sir : In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit 
to the Senate of the United States the Annual Report of the opera- 
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for 
the year 1857. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution, 
Hon. John C. Breckinridge, 

President of the Senate. 



ANNUAL EEPORT 



BOAED OF EEGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION UP TO JANUARY 
1, 1858, AND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO MAY 19, 1858. 



To the Senate and House of Bepresentatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establisliing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, 
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and 
condition of the Institution, the following documents : 

1. The Annual Eeport of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations of the Institution during the year 185*7. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee^ giving a general statement 
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an 
account of the expenditures for the year 185*7. 

3. Report of the Building Committee. 

4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to May 19, 1858. 

5. Appendix. 
Respectfully submitted. 

R. B. TANEY, Chancellor. 
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 



OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



JAMES BUCHANAN, Ex officio Presiding Officer of the Institution. 
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. 
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary. 
W. W. SEATON, Treasurer. 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, '\ 

JAMES A. PEARCE, y Executive Committee. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, J 

RICHARD RUSH, "j 

WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, }. Building Committed. 

JOSEPH HENRY, j 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States. 
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 
JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington. 
JAMES A. PEARCE, member of the Senate of the United States. 
JAMES M. MASON, member of the Senate of the United States. 
STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS, member of the Senate of the United States, 
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, member of the House of Representatives. 
L. J. GARTRELL, member of the House of Representatives. 
BENJAMIN STANTON, member of the House of Representatives. 
GIDEON HAWLEY, citizen of New York. 
RICHARD RUSH, citizen of Pennsylvania. 
GEORGE E. BADGER, citizen of North Carolina. 
CORNELIUS C. FELTON, citizen of Massachusetts. 
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington. 
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington. 



MEMBEES EX OFFICIO OF THE II^STIT UTION. 



JAMES BUCHANAN, President of the United States. 

JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States. 

LEWIS CASS, Secretary of State. 

HOWELL COBB, Secretary of the Treasury. 

JOHN B. FLOYD, Secretary of War. 

ISAAC TOUCEY, Secretary of tlie Navy. 

AARON V. BROWN, Postmaster General. 

J. S. BLACK, Attorney General. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Ju-t:-«^ of the United States. 

JOSEPH HOLT, Commissioner of Patents. 

JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington. 



HONOEAKY MEMBEES. 



uC 



ROBERT HARE, of Pennsylvania. 
WASHINGTON IRVING, of New York. . 
BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut. 
PARKER CLEAVELAND, of Maine. 
A. B. LONGSTREET, of Mississippi. 
JACOB THOMPSON, Secretary of Uie Interior 



PEOfiRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[PRESENTED I\ THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND 
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.] 



INTRODUCTION. 



General considerations ivhich should serve as a guide in adopting a 
Flan of Organization. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, " to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffu- 
sion of knowledge among men," 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of 
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the 
testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate h's name. 

4. The ( jects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2d, to 
diffuse knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addi- 
tion of new truths ; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus 
increased, among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by difterent methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths ; and can be most exten- 
sively diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should 
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of 
increasing and difi'usiug knowledge, which cannot be produced either 
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provi- 
sionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be 
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time 
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, 



8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

a considerable portion of the interest which, has accrue"?, should be 
added to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultit^aied, 
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the 
construction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice 
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in 
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected 
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup- 
ported by the Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined 
by the plan of organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene- 
fitted by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure 
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from 
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements 
of the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a 
library, a museum, and a gallery of art^ with a building on a liberal 
scale to contain them. 

SECTION I. 

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing 
deductions from the will of Smithson. 

To Increase Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer- 
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths ; and 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income lor particular 
researches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To Diffuse Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the 
different branches of knowledge ; and 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. — By stimulating researches. 

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all 
branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs tlius obtained to be published in a series of volumes, 
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Know- 
ledge. 

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for 
publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human 
knowledge, resting on original research ; and all unverified specula- 
tions to be rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for 
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9 

the brancli to which the memoir pertains ; and to be accepted for pub- 
lic '"ion only in case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The comm^*''sion to be chosen hy the officers of the Institution, 
and the name ot the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a 
favorable decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions 
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the 
colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the 
remaining copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully pre- 
served, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from 
new institutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs 
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to 
Congress. 

II. — By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects of 
research, under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended 
by counsellors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects, so that, in 
course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects tor which appropriations may be made. 
(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the 

problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological^ 
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the 
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination 
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light ; 
chemical analyses of soils and plants ; collection and publication of 
scientific facts^ accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, 
moral, and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of j^laces celebrated 
in American history. 

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif- 
ferent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate 
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our 
country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. — By tlie publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new 
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in 
all branches of knoivledge not strictly professional, 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest- 
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the 



10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the 
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge 
may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the 
different branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica- 
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report; 
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title- 
page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons 
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it 
without purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri- 
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific 
institutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in 
the reports : 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, 
and meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to arts. 

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, 
antiquities, &c. 

6. Statistics and political economy. 
T. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. By the puUication of separate treatises on suhjects of generol interest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs 
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the 
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the 
best exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission 
of competent judges previous to their publication. 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of 
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in 
the table of reports. 

SECTION II. 

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of 
the Board of Begents providing for the two modes of increasing and 

diffusing hioioledge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated 
the formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Kegents, 
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide 
the income* into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge 
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme 
before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of 
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art, 

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described^ a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro- 
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the more 
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary 
in preparing the periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of 
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications. 

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of 
experimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men- 
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United 
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur- 
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio- 
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work 
which he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase 
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary 
to purchase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts 
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex- 
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other 
similar societies. 



* The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the 

United States is $515,169 00 

Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the 

building) 242,129 00 

Annual income from tJie bequest. , 30,910 14 



12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

12. A small appropriation sliould annually be made for models of 
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be- 
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except 
one, to act as librarian. 

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to 
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property, 
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and 
keejjer of the museum, and may, with the consent of i;he Regents, 
employ assistants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
new objects of art ; distinguished individuals should also be invited to 
give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be- 
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change 
is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15^ 
1855, viz : 

Itesolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents, 
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in- 
come between the active operations and the museum and library, 
when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby repealed. 

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the 
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, 
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic import- 
ance, and a compliance in good faith with the law. 



EEPOET or THE SECEETARY EOE 1857 



To the Board of Regents: 

Gentlemen : It again becomes my duty to present to you the 
history of the operations of another year of the Institution which 
the government of the United States has entrusted to your care. In 
an establishment of this kind, of which the policy has been settled 
and is strictly adhered to, there must of necessity be much sameness in 
the general form and character of the successive reports ; but since 
the field of science is boundless, and new portions of it are continually 
presented for investigation, there will always be found in the details, 
facts of sufficient interest to relieve the routine of the statements 
relative to the condition of the funds and the scrutiny of the receipts 
and expenditures. 

It might at first sight appear surprising that so constant a supply 
of materials for the Smithsonian Contributions and so many objects of 
interest, demanding the assistance of the Smithsonian fund, should 
be presented, but it will be evident, on reflection, that this results 
from the influence of the Institution itself in increasing the number 
of laborers in the field of science, as well as in accumulating the 
materials on which they are to be engaged. The tendency is con- 
stantly to expand the operations, and much caution and self-control 
are necessary to repress the desire to be more liberal in the assistance 
rendered to worthy objects, than the income will permit. Indeed, a 
charge is frequently made of illiberality for what is the result of re- 
stricted means. It must be evident that nothing is more important to 
the permanency and proper conduct of the Institution than the cautious 
and judicious management of its funds. Any embarrassment in this 
quarter would involve a loss of confidence in the directors^ which would 
be fatal to the usefulness and efficiency of the establishment. 

I have from the first expressed the regret that the original law of 
Congress directed the expenditure of so large a portion of the income 
on objects of a local character, and this feeling has been increased by 
the experience which time has afforded in regard to the good which 
could be eflected by a more critical observance of the terms of the 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

"bequest, as well as by the increasing expense of sustaining a large 
building, a library, and museum. It is to be hoped, however, that 
at least a partial relief will hereafter be afforded by an annual appro- 
priation, which it is reasonable to expect government will make for 
the keeping and exhibition of the collections of the various exploring 
expeditions which have been entrusted to the care of the Regents. 

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for the 
construction and erection of cases to receive the collections of the 
United States Exploring Expedition and others in Washington, and 
also for the transfer and arrangement of the specimens. This appro- 
priation was granted in accordance with the recommendation of the 
late Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Patents, in 
order that the large room in the Patent Office occupied by the museum 
might be used for the more legitimate purposes of that establishment. 
We presume that the other part of the recommendation will also be 
carried out, namely, that the annual appropriation be continued which 
has heretofore been made for the care of this portion of the govern- 
ment property. While, on the one hand, no appropriation should be 
made which would serve to lessen the distinctive character of Smith- 
son's bequest, on the other it is evident that the government should 
not impose any burdens upon the Institution which would impair its 
usefulness or divert its funds from their legitimate purpose. 

It was stated in the last report that the extra fund of the Insti- 
tution, which had been saved from the accrued interest, was invested 
in State Stocks. This investment was made because the fund was at 
the time drawing no interest, and because, until action could be pro- 
cured by Congress in relation to receiving said fund into the United 
States Treasury, it was deemed the safest disposition of the money. 
Though a temporary depreciation of these stocks took place during 
the last year, there is no reason to regret the investment. Their 
marketable value is at present about the same as it was at the time 
they were purchased. 

By reference to the report of the Executive Committee it will be 
seen that the expenditures during the year, though less than the 
amount of receipts, have somewhat exceeded the estimates. This has 
been occasioned, first, by unexpected repairs which were found neces- 
sary to the building, in consequence of an unprecedented hail storm, 
which destroyed several thousand panes of glass and did considerable 
injury to the roof and other parts of the edifice ; secondly, by an 
expansion of the system of foreign exchanges, rendered necessary by 
the large amount of material entrusted to the Institution by the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

different agricultural and other societies of the country ; and thirdly, 
the necessity we were under, on account of the financial pressure, of 
paying bills for publications which will appear during the present 
and the next year. The funds of the Institution are, however, still 
in a prosperous condition, but great care is required to prevent the 
accumulation of small expenses, which, individually, by reason of 
their insignificance, are allowed to occur, but which in the aggregate, 
at the end of the year, are found to have swelled into amounts of 
considerable magnitude. 

Publications. — The ninth annual quarto volume of Contributions to 
Knowledge was completed and distributed during the first half of the 
year. It is equal in size and importance to the preceding volumes, 
and contains the following memoirs : 

1. On the relative intensity of the heat and light of the sun upon 
different latitudes of the earth. By L. W. Meech. 

2. Illustrations of surface geology, by Edward Hitchcock, LL.D., 
of Amherst College. 

Part 1. On surface geology, especially that of the Connecticut 
valley, in New England. 

Part 2. On the erosions of the earth's surface, especially by 
rivers. 

Part 3. Traces of ancient glaciers in Massachusetts and Ver- 
mont. 

3. Observations on Mexican history and archa3ology, with a special 
notice of Zapotec remains, as delineated in Mr. J. Gr. Sawkins' draw- 
ings of Mitla, &c. By Brantz Mayer. 

4. Eesearches on the Ammonia Cobalt bases. By Professor Wol- 
cott Gibbs and Professor F. A. Genth. 

5. New tables for determining the values of the co-efiicients in the 
perturbative functions of planetary motion, which depend upon the 
ratio of the mean distances. By J. D. Kunkle. 

6. Asteroid supplement to new tables for determining the values of 

h- and its derivatives. By J. D. Eunkle. 

It was stated in the last report that Mr. L. W. Meech proposed to 
continue his interesting investigations relative to the heat and light 
of the sun, provided the Smithsonian Institution would pay the ex- 
pense of the arithmetical computations. Though most of his time is 
necessarily occupied in other dutieSj he would cheerfully devote his 
leisure hours to the investigation with a view of extending the bounds 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of knowledge. During the past year an appropriation lias been made 
of one hundred dollars for the purpose here mentioned, and we are 
assured, from what Mr. Meech has already accomplished, that this 
sum will be instrumental in producing valuable results. He proposes 
to determine, from several elementary formulas, the laws of terres- 
trial temperature for different latitudes. The first formula has been 
pretty thoroughly applied, and the annual temperature computed by 
it compared with the result of actual observation. The diurnal 
temperatures have also been deduced and seem to agree with actual 
observation within the presumed errors of the latter. The temper- 
ature, however, of the surrounding medium, defived from the annual 
temperature, differs widely from the results obtained by the diurnal 
temperatures. The author is inclined to attribute this difference to a 
defect in the law of radiation as generally received, which, deduced 
from experiments in the laboratory, he thinks inapplicable to the 
phenomena of terrestrial temperature. The second formula takes into 
account another cause of the variation of temperature, namely, the 
cooling due to the contact of the air ; and the third formula includes 
also the effect of the absorption of solar heat in its passage through 
the atmosphere. The investigation will include the consideration of — 
1st, terrestrial radiation ; 2d, contact of air ; 3d, the sun's intensity ; 
4th, atmospheric absorption ; 5th, the difference in radiating power of 
luminous heat by day and non-luminous heat by night. Among 
other inferences to be deduced is the relative heating or radiating 
powers of sea and continent, when the land is covered with foliage 
and vegetation, and when it is covered with ice and snow. These 
researches are intimately connected with the extended series of obser- 
vations on the climate of the United States, now carried on at the 
expense and under the direction of the Institution. 

The paper of Professor Gibbs and Dr. Genth, which forms a part of 
the 9th volume, has been republished in the American Journal of 
Science and in the London Chemical Gazette, due credit being given 
to the Smithsonian Contributions, from which it was copied. We 
regret to be informed by the authors of this interesting paper that 
the sum appropriated by the Institution for assisting in defraying the 
expense of the materials and apparatus employed in their researches 
was scarcely sufficient to compensate for more than one-fourth of their 
outlay. Limited means, and not a want of proper appreciation of the 
labors of these gentlemen, prevented their entire reimbursement for 
the pecuniary loss in the prosecution of their valuable researches. 
They intend, notwithstanding this, to continue their investigations, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

and to devote as much time to them as their other engagements and 
the means at their disposal will allow. Since this memoir has met 
the approval of the scientific world, it will be proper to make as 
liberal an appropriation as the demands on the limited income of the 
Institution will permit for the continuance of researches in the same 
line. The publication of the paper was of comparatively little 
expense, since it required no costly illustrations, and this may be an 
additional reason for granting a larger appropriation for further in- 
vestigations in the same line. 

The ninth volume also contains the supplement to the tables by J. 
D. Runkle, mentioned in the last report. The tables in this supple- 
ment are intended to facilitate calculations with reference to the 
asteroids. The search for these bodies has been prosecuted with so 
much vigor of late that their list now extends to more than fifty, and 
the mechanical labor required to calculate their places is so great that 
this can scarcely be expected to be accomplished, except by the use of 
general tables. The work of Gauss on the theory of the motion of 
the heavenly bodies leaves little to be desired, so far as the deter- 
mination of their orbits is concerned ; but this is by no means the 
case with regard to their perturbations by the larger planets. The 
tables therefore will afford an important means of facilitating the ad, 
vance of our knowledge, particularly of this class of the members of 
our solar system. 

The third part of the Nereis Boreali- Americana, by Dr. Willip^m H. 
Harvey, has been completed and will be included in the tenth volume 
of the Contributions. Two hundred extra copies of the text of the 
preceding parts having been struck off before the distribution of the 
types, and the drawings on the lithographic stones having been pre- 
served, an equal number of plates from the latter have been printed 
and colored, so that we shall be enabled to make up two hundred 
copies of the complete work to be offered for sale, which will serve, 
it is hoped, to reimburse, in some degree, the heavy expense incurred 
in the publication of this interesting addition to the science of botany. 
It may be proper to mention that the work was published in numbers, 
in order that the whole expense should be defrayed by tlie appro- 
priation of different years, as well as to furnish the author the oppor- 
tunity of rendering the work more complete by more extended re- 
search. 

For the purpose of classification, the sea plants have been grouped 

2 s 



18 EEPOET OF THE SECEETARY. 

under three principal heads which are readily distinguished by their 
general color. 

They are as follows : 

1. Melanospermea3 — plants of an olive-green or olive-brown color. 

2. Ehodosperme^e, or plants of a rosy-red or purple color. 

3. Chlorospermea3, or plants of a grass, rarely of a livid purple 
color. 

The numbers of the work already published relate to the first two 
divisions, and the third, now about to be issued, will contain the last, 
with an appendix describing new species discovered since the date of 
the former parts. 

The text of the first part of the work on Oology, mentioned in pre- 
ceding reports, has been printed ; but the publication of the plates to 
accompany it will be so expensive that we were obliged to defer it 
until the present year. In the meantime the author will proceed with 
the preparation of the other parts of the memoir, and the whole will 
be completed as soon as the funds of the Institution will permit. 
From an accidental oversight in the preparation of the last Eeport, I 
neglected to mention the fact that the author of this interesting work 
is Dr. Thomas M. Brewer, of Boston. The omission of his name in 
the reports would not only be unjust to himself, but might also pre- 
vent him from receiving in some cases additional information relative 
to his labors from correspondents who are engaged in the same line of 
research. The announcement of the fact of the intended publication 
of this memoir has induced a number of persons to enter into corre- 
spondence with the Institution on the subject, and we doubt not that 
these remarks will tend to call forth other additioxis to our knowledge 
of this branch of natural history. 

Since the date of the last Report a grammar and dictionary of the 
Yoruba language of Africa have been accepted for publication. Thi 
work is another contribution from the missionary enterprise of the 
present day, and has been prepared by the Eev. Thos. J. Bowen, of 
the Southern Baptist Missionary Board, from materials collected 
during a residence of six years in Africa, and revised and rewritten with 
the aid of W. W. Turner, esq., of Washington. The grammar and 
dictionary are prefaced by a brief account of the country and its inhab- 
itants. The long residence of the author in this part of the interior 
: of Africa has enabled him to gather more minute knowledge of its 
topography, climate, and productions, and of the political, social, and 
moral relations of its inhabitants than has before been obtained. He 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

lias collected interesting information as to the habits of thought and 
action of the people, and their capacity for moral and intellectual 
culture, which would have escaped the casual notice of the mere 
traveller. 

Yoruba is a country of Western Africa, situated to the east of 
Dahomey, and extending from the Bight of Benin, in a northerly 
direction, nearly to the Niger. It is between the countries explored 
by the distinguished travellers,, Barth, on the north, and Livingstone, 
on the south. The author describes it as a beautiful and fertile region, 
densely inhabited by a population devoted to agricultural pursuits, 
who do not dwell on the lands they cultivate, but live clustered 
together in villages and towns, some of which contain from 20,000 to 
70,000 inhabitants. The people are generally of a primitive, simple 
and harmless character, and governed by institutions patriarchal 
rather than despotic. In their appearance they resemble the Cau- 
casian race, while their mental powers and general moral impulses 
are considerably advanced in the scale of intelligence. They have, 
indeed, already attained no inconsiderable degree of social organiza- 
tion, while they have escaped some of the more depraved incidents of 
an advanced civilization. 

The language, which is said to be spoken by about two millions of 
people, is represented by Professor Turner to be very homogeneous in 
its structure, almost all of it being derived from some five hundred 
primitive words. "Its articulations are sufficiently easy to imitate, 
and there is a system of vocalic concords recurring through the whole, 
which^ together with the multiplicity of vowels, renders it decidedly 
euphonious. The great difficulty is found in the tones and accents, 
which can be discriminated only by a good ear, and must be uttered 
correctly to make the speaker intelligible. The Yoruba has neither 
article nor adjective, properly so called, and it is almost wholly des- 
titute of inflection. The verbal root remains unchanged through all 
the accidents of person, mood, and tense, which are indicated by 
separate pronouns and particles. The plurality of nouns is also indi- 
cated by the aid of a plural pronoun. The numerals are based on the 
decimal system, yet many of them are formed by subtraction instead 
of addition or multiplication, as with us. Thus 15 is literally 10 -f- 5 ; 
but 16 =r 20 — 4, 17 = 20 — 3, &c. Although this language is spoken 
by a rude people, it abounds in abstract terms, and the missionary 
finds no difficulty in expressing in it the ideas he desires to com- 
municate." 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

It is believed that this work will be received by the student of 
ethnology as an interesting addition to this science, and that its pub- 
lication will not only facilitate the labors of the missionary, but be 
productive of valuable commercial results. The country in which the 
language is spoken is rich in natural and artificial productions, and 
as the inhabitants are anxious to establish relations of trade with 
other parts of the world, it would seem to offer a new and tempting 
field to mercantile enterprise. 

Under the head of publications, we may allude to the Appendix to 
the Annual Report of the Eegents. Previous to 1853 this report was 
in a pamphlet form, and only in one or two cases were a few extra 
copies ordered. Since that date an annual volume has been presented 
to Congress, of which twenty thousand extra copies have been printed. 
The liberal distribution of this work has met with general approbation, 
the applications to the Institution for copies have been constantly in- 
creasing, and, in connexion with the Report of the Patent Office, no 
document has become more popular or is better calculated to advance 
the cause of knowledge among the people. The object is, as far as pos- 
sible, to distribute this volume among teachers, and through them to 
diffuse precise scientific knowledge to the rising generation. It is made 
also the vehicle of instruction, in the line of observations, to all who 
are desirous of co-operating in the investigation of the natural history 
and physical geography of this country. The wide distribution of this 
report has tended, more than any other means, to make known the 
character of the Institution, and to awaken an interest throughout 
the whole country in its prosperity. 

In order to render the series complete, the first volume — that for 
1853 — contained a reprint of the previous reports of the Secretary, 
from which a connected history of all the operations of the Institution 
from the beginning may be obtained. These volumes are illustrated 
by a large number of wood cuts, which have been provided at the 
expense of the Smithsonian fund. We have, however, to regret that, 
from the rapidity with which Congressional documents are hurried 
through the press, we have not been allowed in all cases revised copies 
of the proof. We cannot, therefore, be held entirely responsible for 
inaccuracies of the press any more than for the style of printing or 
the quality of the paper. 

It is a part of the settled policy of the Institution to appropriate 
its funds, as far as the original law of organization will allow, to 
such objects only as cannot as well be accomplished by other means ; 
and accordingly, in several instances, the printing of papers previously 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

accepted for publication has been relinquished because it was subse- 
quently found that the works could be given to the public, under 
certain conditions, through other agencies. In such cases the favor- 
able opinion expressed by the Institution as to the character of the 
work, or the assistance rendered by the subscription on the part of the 
Kegents, for a number of copies to be distributed in exchange for 
other books among our foreign correspondents, has been sufficient to 
induce some liberal minded parties to undertake the publication, 
rather as an enterprise connected with the reputation of their estab- 
lishments, than as a matter of profit. / „■. 

Among the works of this class is the "Theofy~of the Motion of the 
Heavenly Bodies," by the celebrated Gauss, translated by Captain C. 
H. Davis, U. S. N., late superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, 
which was originally accepted by us for publication, but was after- 
wards relinquished to Messrs. Little & Brown, of Boston, who have 
shown in this instance, as well as in others of a similar character, a 
liberality which cannot be otherwise than highly appreciated by a 
discerning public. This book, which is essential to the advance of 
practical astronomy, was published in Latin, in Hamburg, in 1809, 
and is now of difficult access, as well as of restricted use, on account 
of the language in which it appeared. It gives a complete system of 
formulas and processes for computing the movement of a body revolv- 
ing in an ellipse, or in any otuer curve belonging to the class of conic 
sections, and explains a general method of determining the orbit of a 
planet or a comet from three observations of the position of the body 
as seen from the earth. The essay was called for at the time it was 
produced by the wants of science. The planet Ceres, discovered on 
the first day of the present century by Piazzi, of Italy, had been 
lost to astronomers in its passage through the portion of the heavens 
illuminated by the beams of the sun, and could not be found by the 
means then known, when Gauss, from a few observations of its former 
place, calculated its orbit, and furnished an ephemeris by which it 
was readily rediscovered. The methods employed in this determina- 
tion were afterwards given in a systematic form in the work now 
translated. The copies subscribed for by the Institution, on account 
of exchanges, and those paid for by the Navy Department, for the 
use of the computers of the Nautical Almanac, were sufficient to 
secure the publication of the work, which could not have been under- 
taken without these aids. 

In accordance with the same policy the Institution has subscribed 
for a few copies of a work on ' ' The Pleiocene Fossils of South Caro- 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

lina,' ' by M. Tuomey and F, S. Holmes. This work received the com- 
mendation of some of the distinguished members of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, at its meeting in Charles- 
ton, in 1850, and its publication was undertaken at the risk and cost 
of the authors. The actual expense, however, far exceeded their esti- 
mate, and without the liberal aid of the legislature of South Carolina 
they could not have escaped heavy loss, or been enabled to complete 
the work in a proper style of art. To aid the same enterprise the 
Institution was induced to make the subscription above mentioned for 
copies to be distributed to foreign societies. We regret to state that 
before the work was fully completed the science of the country was 
called to mourn the loss of Professor Tuomey, of the University of 
Alabama, who, during the past year, was prematurely snatched away 
from his family and friends in the flower of his age. His works, 
however, will remain as an inheritance to the cause of knowledge and 
the best monument to his memory. We have been gratified to learn 
that, at the late session of the legislature of South Carolina, a resolu- 
tion was passed authorizing a continuance of the patronage of the 
State to the publication of these researches, and consequently Professor 
Holmes has signified his intention to publish two additional volumes 
on the Eocene and the Post Pleiocene Fossils, to which the subscrip- 
tion of the Institution will also be extended. 

Another work, belonging to the same class, is the series of " Contri- 
butions to the Natural History of the United States of America," by 
Professor Louis Agassiz. It has been mentioned in a previous report 
that this distinguished savan was preparing a series of j^apers to be 
presented to the Smithsonian Institution, and that the plates for some 
of these had been engraved. But the number of these contributions, 
and the cost of their illustration, would have absorbed a larger portion 
of the Smithsonian fund than could have properly been devoted to 
the labors of one individual. Fortunately, however, the reputation 
and popularity of Professor Agassiz have enabled his friends to i^ro- 
cure subscribers for an independent work, containing the result of his 
valuable investigations, in numbers unprecedented in the annals of 
science of this or of any other country. In order to assist this enter- 
prise in the beginning, and to relieve its own funds, the Institution 
subscribed for copies, to be distributed among foreign libraries, in ex- 
change for rare works of a similar character, with which to enrich its 
own library. 

The Institution has also facilitated the researches described in the 
first two volumes of the work in question, and I may quote the 



EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 23 

following sentence containing the acknowledgment of the author for 
the services which have thus been rendered him : " Above all, I must 
mention the Smithsonian Institution, whose officers, in the true spirit 
of its founder, have largely contributed to the advancement of my 
researches by forwarding to me for examination not only all the 
specimens of Testudinata collected for the museum of the Institution, 
but also those brought to Washington by the naturalists of the dif- 
ferent parties that have explored the western Territories, or crossed 
the continent with the view of determining the best route for the 
Pacific railroad. These specimens have enabled me to determine the 
geographical distribution of this order of reptiles with a degree of 
precision which I could not have attained without this assistance." 
Besides this, the Institution caused special collections of turtles to be 
made for Professor Agassiz, from those parts of the country from 
which no specimens had previously been obtained. 

It was originally intended, as announced in the prospectus, to issue 
one volume a year, but the author found that the first volume was 
insufficient to contain all the matter which he had designed to give 
in it. Its publication was therefore delayed, that the whole of this 
part of his general subject might be presented at once, and hence two 
volumes have been issued together. The large subscription which 
has been obtained has enabled the publishers to extend the original 
plan, and to expend a much greater sum on the engravings than was 
at first thought possible. The work will serve to increase and extend 
the reputation of the illustrious author, as well as to afford a striking 
example of the liberality of our country and its growing appreciation 
of abstract science. 

Under the head of publications, and in justice to the memory of a 
distinguished naturalist, a profound scholar, and a worthy man, the 
late Dr. Gerard Troost, of Tennessee, it ought to be stated in this 
Eeport, that after his death, several years ago, a memoir he had pre- 
pared on the organic remains known as Crinoidea^ illustrated by a 
collection of specimens, was presented to the Smithsonian Institution 
for publication. It was submitted to two naturalists of high reputa- 
tion, and found by them to be an important addition to knowledge, 
though left by its author in an unfinished condition. The gentlemen 
to whom it was referred generously offered to supply the deficiencies, 
and to prepare the work for the press. Their engagements, however, 
have since been such as to prevent up to this time the completion of 
the task which they undertook to accomplish. One of the gentlemen 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

to whom the paper was referred, Prof. James Hall, in whose posses- 
sion the specimens now are, states that he had hoped long since to 
put the memoir in such a form as to do justice to the memory of Dr. 
Troost, and bo in accordance with the latest views of the subject. To 
do this, however, required an examination of other specimens, and for 
this object he had never been able to find time. At present he is 
engaged in a geological report of Iowa, in which there are several 
plates of Crinoids, and any which may be identical with those de- 
scribed by Dr. Troost will be accredited to him. We regret exceed- 
ingly this long delay in the publication of the labors of one so highly 
esteemed in life and gratefully remembered in death. It has, however, 
been caused by circumstances over which we had no control, and which 
have given us considerable disquietude. 

The new and extended series of Meteorological and Physical Tables, 
which has been in course of preparation for several years, is at length 
completed and ready for distribution. It forms a volume of 634 large 
octavo pages, which may be divided into separate parts, each distinct 
in itself. A copy of these tables will be sent to each of the meteoro- 
logical observers, and it is believed that a considerable number may 
be sold in this country and Europe, from which something may be 
derived towards compensating the author, Prof. Guyot, for the un- 
wearied labor and attention he has bestowed upon the work. 

At the request of the Institution, Baron Osten Sacken, of the Eus- 
sian legation, who has made a special study of Dipterous Insects has 
prepared a catalogue of the previously described species of this con- 
tinent, analogous to that of Melsheimer's catalogue of the Cleoptera 
of the United States, which was published some years ago by this 
Institution. 

It frequently happens that the same animal is described by different 
naturalists under different names, and there may be among the species 
enumerated in this catalogue some of this character, but in the pre- 
sent state of the knowledge of American Diptera the publication of a 
complete synonymical catalogue is impossible. Yet a list like the one 
just completed is an indispensable preparatory work for the future 
study of this branch of entomology. The catalogue includes the 
species inhabiting not only the North American continent in general, 
but also those in Central America and in the West Indies. It also 
gives the principal localitiee where each species has been found. 
In a list like this, says the author, completeness is the principal 
merit ; the symmetrical arrangement is but of secondary importance. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

The groups adopted by Meigen and Wiedemann are retained, avoiding 
the subdivisions introduced by modern authors. 

The publication of this list, we trust, will very much facilitate the 
study of entomology, and it is a special object of this Institution to en- 
courage individuals to devote themselves to particular subjects of re- 
search. The field of nature is so extended that unless it be minutely 
subdivided, and its several parts cultivated by different persons, little 
progress of a definite character can be anticipated. To collect the 
materials for wider generalizations_, microscopic research is necessary 
in every direction, and men enthusiastically devoted to one object are 
required in every branch of knowledge in order that the whole may be 
perfected. It is true, before entering on an investigation of this kind, 
that it is desirable for the individual to have a general knowledge of the 
different branches of science, since they are all intimately connected ; 
and the student can then narrow his field of view until it comes within 
the scope of his mental abilities, or the means which he may have at his 
disposal for its advancement. As a general rule, however, the ability 
to enlarge the bounds of science can only be obtained by almost ex- 
clusive devotion to a few branches. 

It is scarcely possible to estimate too highly, in reference to the 
happiness of the individual as well as to the promotion of knowledge, 
the choice in early life of some subject to which the thoughts can be 
habitually turned during moments of leisure, and to which observa- 
tion may be directed during periods of recreation, relative to which 
facts may be gleaned from casual reading, and during journeys of 
business or of pleasure. It is well that every one should have some 
favorite subject of which he has a more minute knowledge than any 
of his neighbors. It is well that he should know some one thing 
profoundly, in order that he may estimate by it his deficiencies in 
others. 

In this connexion it may be proper to remark that the association 
of individuals in the same community^ each with a special and favor- 
ite pursuit^ each encouraging the others, each deferring to the others, 
and each an authority in his own specialty, forms an organization 
alike valuable to the individual, the community, and the public gen- 
erally. To induce and encourage the establishment of such associa- 
tions is one of the objects of the Institution. It is suprisiog what 
interest may be awakened, what amounj^ of latent talents developed, 
and what dignity imparted to the pursuits of a neighborhood by a 
society in which the knowledge of each becomes common property, 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and the labors of each one are stimulated by the appreciation and 
applause of his fellows. 

I am acquainted with no plan of adult education better calculated 
to elevate the mental character of a community or to develop the 
local natural history of a district than that of a well organized and 
efficiently conducted association of this kind. Such establishments, 
I am happy to say, are now becoming common in every part of the 
United States. They have taken the place, in many cases, of the de- 
bating societies, which were formerly instituted for mental improve- 
ment. To the latter it might justly be objected that they tend to 
promote a talent of sophistical reasoning, rather than to engender an 
uncompromising love of truth. The habit of fluent speaking may 
undoubtedly be cultivated at the expense of profound thought, and 
however j^romotive at times of the temporary interests of the indi- 
vidual, can never be supposed to tend to the permanent advancement 
of the species. 

Meteorology. — The system of meteorological observations under the 
direction of the Institution and the Patent Office has been so repeatedly 
described in previous reports that it will scarcely be necessary to give 
any more at this time than an account of the present state of the work. 
The system was commenced in 1849, and has since then been gradually 
improving in the number of observers, character of the instruments, 
and the precision with which the records are made. The Institution 
has awakened a wide interest in the subject of meteorology, and has 
diffused a considerable amount of information with regard to it which 
could not readily be obtained through other means. The manufac- 
ture of instruments, compared with standards furnished b)^ the Insti- 
tution from London and Paris, has been an important means of 
advancing the science. The work is still continued by James Green, 
173 Grand street, New York, and during the past year an increasing 
number of full sets has been purchased by observers. The Institution 
has continued to distribute rain-gages, with which observations are 
now made on the quantity of aqueous precipitation in nearly every 
State and Territory of the Union. 

We are indebted to the National Telegraph line for a series of 
observations from New Orleans to New York, and as far westward 
as Cincinnati, Ohio, which have been published in the '' Evening 
Star," of this city. These reports have excited much interest, and 
could they be extended further north, and more generally to the 
westward, they would furnish important information as to the ap- 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

proacli of storms. We hope in the course of another year to make 
such an arrangement with the telegraph lines as to he ahle to give 
warning on the eastern coast of the approach of storms, since the 
investigations which have been made at the Institution fully indicate 
the fact that as a general rule the storms of our latitude pursue a 
definite course. 

The materials which have been collected relative to the climate of 
the North American continent are as follows : 

1st. A miscellaneous collection of MSS. and other tables relative to 
the climate of the United States. This series will be enriched by a 
reference list to all the meteorological records, which are to be found 
in the extensive library of Mr. Peter Force, of this city, and other 
accessible sources of information. 

2d. The observations made under the direction of this Institution 
since 1849. 

3d. A series of observations made by Dr. Berlandier in Mexico. 

4th. Observations made in the British possessions. 

5th. The record of observations made by government and other 
exploring expeditions. 

6th. Copies of the observations made under the direction of the Sur- 
geon General at the military posts. 

7th. Copies of the observations made at the expense of the States 
of New York, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Maine, and Missouri. 

8th. A series of observations from Bermuda and the West Indies. 

Besides these, the Institution is endeavoring to obtain, by means of 
its exchanges, a full series of all observations which have been made 
in foreign countries, and to form a complete meteorological library. 

Complaint has been made on account of the delay in publishing 
deductions from the materials which have thus been collected, but, 
with the limited means of the Institution, it should be recollected that 
all objects enumerated in the j^rogramme of organization cannot be 
simultaneously accomplished. The reductions have been steadily pur- 
sued for the last five years, and all the funds, not otherwise absolutely 
required, have been devoted by the Institution to this object. 

It will be a matter of astonishment to those not j^ractically ac- 
quainted with the subject, to be informed as to the amount of labor 
required for the reduction of the returns made to this Institution for 
a single year. During 1856 the records of upwards of half a million of 
separate observations, each requiring a reduction involving an arith- 
metical calculation, were received at the Institution. Allowing an 
average of one minute for the examination and reduction of each 



28 REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 

observation, the amount of time consumed will be nearly 7,000 hours, 
or, at the rate of seven hours per day, it will be 1,000 days or up- 
wards of three years, or, in other words, to keep up with the reduction 
of the current observations the whole available time of three expert 
computers is required. This is independent of the labor expended in 
the correspondence, preparation and distribution of blank forms, and 
the deduction of general principles. The work has been prosecuted, 
therefore, as rapidly as the means at the disposal of the Institution 
would jjermit. Since the arrangement was made with the Patent 
Office, from twelve to fifteen persons, many of them females, have 
been almost constantly employed, under the direction of Prof. Coffin, 
in bringing up the arrears and in reducing the current observations. 

All the materials collected at the Institution are in the process of 
being arranged and bound in accessible volumes, with proper indices, 
to be used by all who may be desirous of making special investigations 
on any point relative to the climate of this country. 

During the past year the reductions for 1855 were printed in 
pamphlet form and distributed to observers for criticism and sug- 
gestions as to improvements which might be adopted in the subse- 
quent publication of the entire series. 

Exchanges. — The system of international exchange has been carried 
on during the past year with unabated zeal, and we trust with undi- 
minished good results. A large amount of scientific material has 
passed through our hands in its transfer to and from societies and 
individuals in this and other countries. The returns made to the 
Institution during 1857 for its own publications consist of 555 vol- 
umes, 1,067 parts of volumes, and 138 charts. These works embrace 
most of the current volumes of scientific transactions, and are of the 
highest importance as aids in original research. The number would 
be very much increased if the contents of several large cases, which 
were accidentally delayed until the beginning of this year, were in- 
cluded. 

The importance of the exchanges is not to be estimated by the com- 
mercial value alone of the books received. In addition to this we 
must consider the effect which it produces in bringing into immediate 
communication the cultivators of literature and science in this country 
with those abroad, of distributing among our societies publications of 
a class, the existence of which would scarcely otherwise be known, 
and of facilitating the diffusion of knowledge which, by the ordinary 
modes of transmission, would not be attained, except, perhaps, in the 
course of years. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

The system has now attained a great development, and increases 
measurably every year. The expenses hitherto have been principally 
borne by the Institution, but their amount has now become so great 
as seriously to interfere with other operations, and I therefore think 
it advisable that a charge be made, to the parties receiving a certain 
amount of packages annually, sufficient to reimburse some of the 
outlay, of the Smithsonian funds. "What would not be felt by each 
one individually would, in the aggregate, materially lessen the burden 
of expense connected with this part of the operations, which amounted, 
in 1857, to about $3,000. 

The expenses of the Smithsonian exchanges would be considerably 
greater than they are but for the liberality of various transportation 
companies in carrying packages free of cost. No charge on freight is 
made by the United States Mail Steamship Company, the Panama 
Railroad, or the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, forming the mail 
line from New York to San Francisco, while the agents of the line 
in these two cities, Messrs. I. W. Eaymond and A. B. Forbes, serve 
the Institution in various ways. The California Express Agency 
of Wells, Fargo & Co., has also acted with the greatest liberality, 
and the same should be stated of the old line of Bremen and New York 
steamers. None of the domestic agents of distribution — namely. Hick- 
ling, Swan & Brewer, of Boston; D. Appleton& Co., New York; J. B. 
Lipi^incott & Co., Philadelphia; John Russell, Charleston; B. M. 
Norman, New Orleans ; Dr. Wislizenus, St. Louis ; H. W. Derby, 
Cincinnati ; and Henry P. B. Jewett, of Cleveland — make any charge 
for services ; and the same may also be said of Messrs. Oelrichs & 
Liirman, of Baltimore. 

The amount of labor involved in the exchanges is, of course, very 
great, as will be readily inferred from an examination of the tables 
of receipts and transmissions during the past year, given by Professor 
Baird. The entries in the several record books fill over 700 pages ; 
the circulars, invoices, and acknowledgments, exceed 4,300, in addi- 
tion to over 600 receipts for packages. For a detailed account of all 
the operations of the exchanges I would refer to the accompanying 
report of Professor Baird. 

Explorations, researches, d'c. — It was stated in the last report that 
the magnetic instruments belonging to the Institution were given in 
charge of Baron Miiller, for investigations in Mexico and Central 
America. Two series of records of observations have been received, 
but for nearly a year past nothing further has been heard from the 
expedition. We should regret the loss of the instruments, although 



30 RE POET OF THE SECRETARY. 

the cost of them has been more than repaid by the services they have 
rendered to science in the Arctic expedition under Dr. Kane, and in 
the results which have already been obtained from them in Mexico. 

The self-registering apparatus in the observatory on the Smithso- 
nian grounds, established at the joint expense of the Coast Survey 
and the Institution, has continued to record the variations in the 
horizontal direction of the magnetic force during a considerable por- 
tion of the past year. The interruptions which have taken place have 
been principally caused by the impurities of the city gas, the exhala- 
lations from which have interfered with the photographic process. 
The records obtained, however, will furnish valuable data for study- 
ing, in connexion with similar observations in other parts of the 
globe, the character of the magnetic force, and to assist in determin- 
ing how far the changes are merely local, or to what extent they 
affect the whole earth. 

Laboratory. — During the past year the laboratory has been under 
the charge of Dr. E. W. Hilgard, recently appointed State geologist 
of Mississippi. Among others, a series of experiments was made by 
him, under direction of the Secretary, at the expense of the Navy 
Department, relative to the vapor from a modification of bi-sulphuret 
of carbon as a substitute for steam applied to mechanical purposes. 
The result of these investigations was unfavorable to the substitution 
of this material in the way proposed. Although a greater amount of 
pressure is produced at the same temperature than in the case of 
steam, yet the amount of work relative to the absolute quantity of 
heat employed is by no means in accordance with this, the density of 
the vapor and its greater specific heat require a corresponding amount 
of fuel^ and when we consider the fact that the bi-sulphuret of carbon 
is not a natural but a factitious substance, of which the vapor, when 
combined with air, is highly explosive and extremely ofiensive on 
account of its odor and the greater complexity of the engine required 
for its use, its application in the place of steam would be far from 
advantageous. 

Another series of investigations was conducted in the laboratory 
relating to the prevention of counterfeiting bank notes, particularly 
by photography ; but as this was intended especially for private use, 
the expenses were paid by the parties interested. 

The Institution does not consider it a part of its duty to volunteer 
an opinion as to the practicability of the new projects with which the 
public mind is frequently agitated ; but when directly called upon by 
the government or other parties of influence to pronounce a judgment 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 31 

on any point of practical or applied science, it does not shrink from 
the responsibility, but, after diligent and cautious inquiry, gives the 
conclusions, whatever they may be, at which it has arrived. 

Library. — Extensive alterations are in the process of being made in 
the wing of the building appropriated to the library, for the better 
accommodation of the bocks. The shelving has been arranged in two 
stories of alcoves, thereby more than doubling the space. Each lower 
alcove is separately secured by a door ; a precaution which has been 
found necessary in the library of the Institution as well as in that of 
Congress. It is a fact to be regretted, but which it is necessary to 
mention in order to vindicate the restrictions imposed upon an indis- 
criminate access to the books, that there is in some quarters a lamentable 
want of honesty with regard to the use of property of a public character. 
Not only are works in many cases mutilated, merely to avoid the labor 
of copying a few pages, but valuable sets are sometimes broken by 
actual theft. 

The appropriation for the library must not alone be measured by 
the sum assigned for the " cost of books ;" it must be recollected that 
the library is principally increasing by means of the exchanges ; that 
every year the Institution sends abroad, besides all the public docu- 
ments which it can procure, some hundreds of copies of the quarto 
volumes of its transactions, the marketable value of which is several 
thousand dollars. It therefore ought to be distinctly understood that 
the library is constantly increasing by the addition of the most valuable 
series of the transactions of literary and scientific societies in all parts 
of the world, and that this is at the expense of what are denominated 
the active operations of the Institution. It is true the number of 
books directly purchased is comparatively small, but indirectly pro- 
cured in the way stated the annual addition is valuable. 

Among the numerous donations received during the past year it is 
of course impossible in this report to particularize more than a few 
of the most important. The Academies of Science of Vienna, St. 
Petersburg, and of Brussels, have all contributed largely both of their 
older and more recent issues. The Eeal Sociedad Economica, of 
Havana, has been particularly liberal in this respect, furnishing nearly 
complete series for many years back, as have also the Horticultural 
societies of Paris and Berlin. The most extensive single gift during 
the year has been that of the Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles, in 
72 volumes, and the Histoire Naturelle des Mammirfees, of Buflfon 
and Daubenton, in 15 volumes, from the Herzogliche Bibliothek der 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Friedensteinsclien Sammlnngen, Gotha. The Britisli Admiralty has 
contributed a full set of all the charts published by it during the year. 
We may also mention, as an object of special interest of this class, a 
valuable set of historical maps, presented by Justus Perthes, the 
celebrated geographical publisher of Gotha, exhibiting the political 
condition of Europe from the beginning of the third century down to 
the time of the crusades. The limits of the several empires are ex- 
hibited by different colors, and the whole are on such a scale as to 
be adapted for instruction in schools or academies. To render this 
interesting work more generally known in this country, it is proposed 
to exhibit the maps in the reading room and to translate and print 
the pamphlet of explanations for the use of the visiters to the Insti- 
tution. 

Among the curiosities of the library received during the past year 
the most prominent is an ornamental album, presented through the 
Department of State, from Miss Contaxaki, a native of the isle of 
Crete. This work was designed as a contribution to the universal 
exhibition at Paris in 1855, where it received a diploma for the artistic 
merit displayed in its execution. The " Classical Bouquet," as it is 
called, consists of illustrations of the principal monuments and places 
in Greece, to which are added a few from the author's native isle of 
Crete. These illustrations are accompanied by quotations from the 
most illustrious Greek authors, beautifully illuminated, while many 
of the pages are adorned with pressed flowers culled from the places 
which the drawings represent. The book itself is a large quarto, 
covered with blue velvet heavily embroidered, and lettered with silver. 
It is inclosed in a case, made of olive wood of the country, about a foot 
and a half square, richly carved and ornamented with appropriate 
devices. This work was transmitted to the United States through 
Charles C. Spence, esq., and affords a favorable specimen as well of 
the present state of the arts in that country, which was the birthplace 
of the true and the beautiful, as of the talents, the taste, and the un_ 
wearied industry of the lady who devised and principally executed it. 

The library possesses an extensive collection of pamphlets, in- 
cluding the separate theses of the candidates for graduation or honors 
at the German universities ; also a series of the annual reports of the 
public institutions and societies in this country. During the past year 
these have been classified, a large number of them bound, and the 
remainder arranged in pasteboard boxes, labeled and placed on the 
shelves as volumes. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

The binding of the books received through exchange continues to 
be a large item of expense, and we have devoted the renaainder of the 
appropriation for the library, not expended in the purchase of books 
or for clerical service, to this object. 

In relation to the books received by the copyright law, I have but 
little to say in addition to what has been stated in preceding reports. 
The provisions of the act are still disregarded, to a considerable extent, 
by the larger publishers, and, as a general rule, works are received of 
but little value in themselves and inconsistent with the character of 
the library of the Institution. Though the cost of postage has been 
diminished by the law of Congress authorizing the free transmission 
of copyrights, yet it has by no means exempted the Institution from 
a large item of expense on this account. The publishers frequently 
inclose witliin the packages letters relating to the proper direction of 
the certificates and other matter pertaining to the copyright, and by 
a decision of the Post Office Department all such communications are 
charged with letter postage. Though the sum in each case appears 
insignificant, yet in the aggregate it may amount, in the course of a 
year, to several hundred dollars ; and since the system from the begin- 
ning has been of no real benefit to the Institution, we have addressed 
a circular to each publisher who forwards a copyright and neglects to 
pay the postage on the accompanying letters, apprising him of the fact. 

In conclusion, I may state that though the copyright law was un- 
doubtedly intended to enrich the library of the Institution, yet the 
non-compliance with it of some of the principal publishers, and the 
reception of a large amount of worthless matter involving expense in 
its transportation and care has entirely defeated this object. The cost 
of the system has been at least ten times greater than the value of the 
books received ; nor is this all ; a compliance with the act has constantly 
subjected the Institution to unmerited censure. We have therefore 
been a loser both in funds and in the friendly feeling of an influential 
portion ofthe community, and it is to be hoped that Congress will, at 
its present session, essentially modify the existing law. The deposit 
of a single copy of each article in the Patent Office, instead of the 
three now sent to Washington, would be sufficient to secure the 
rights of the author, and answer all the objects of a complete collec- 
tion of this class of American publications. 

Museum. — The general plan and objects of the collections which 
have been assiduously formed through the agency of the Smithsonian 
3s 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Institution have been given in several of the preceding reports, and it 
will be sufficient, at this time, to repeat that they are intended to 
exhibit the distribution and development of the plants and animals, as 
well as to illustrate the geological and mineralogical character of the 
North American continent. The number of specimens required for 
these purposes is great, since all the varieties from every locality re- 
quire attention. During the past year specimens have been collected 
by ten government expeditions and six private exploration parties. 
Some of the returns from these are now on the way, and will greatly 
enhance the number and value of the materials before received. Ac- 
cording to the statement of Professor Baird, hereto appended, the 
catalogued specimens of animals at the end of the year 1857, amount- 
ed to: mammals, 3,200; birds, 8,766; skeletons and skulls, 3,340; 
reptiles, 239 ; fishes, 613. 

During the year several persons have availed themselves of the use 
of the collections and library in the prosecution of original researches^ 
and, as usual, several government expeditions, which have been scntout 
for surveys, the construction of roads and for military purposes^ have 
been provided with instructions as to the mode of collecting specimens 
and observing meteorological and other natural phenomena. No oppor- 
tunity of adding to our store of information, in regard to the physical 
geography and natural history of the western portion of this continent, 
has been suffered to pass without being improved, and I may safely 
say, that since the establishment of the Institution more has been 
done to ascertain and make known the character of the less inhabited 
portion of our continent than all which had been previously accom- 
plished in this line. The survey of routes from the Gulf of Mexico 
to the Pacific has served of late to add much to our knowledge of 
Central America, and during the past year the British government 
has sent out a party for the exploration of the country north of the 
limits of the United States and between the great lakes and the Pacific 
ocean. This survey^ in connexion with that along the 49th parallel of 
latitude, now in progress for determining the boundary line between 
the United States and the British possessions, will add to the natural 
history of the northern portion of our territory, and will furnish the 
data necessary to delineate more accurately the great mountain 
system which determines the climate and physical peculiarities of the 
western portion of tliis continent. 

SmitJison' s personal effects. — The bequest of James Smithson included 
all his personal effects, and these were obtained by Hon. Eichard Kush^ 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. oO 

tiie agent of the American government, tlirougli wliom tlie legacy was 
procured. They were delivered by him to the Secretary of State, and 
afterwards deposited in the museum of the Patent Office, where they 
remained until the last year, when they were transferred to the Regents' 
room in the Smithsonian building. They have been arranged for exhi- 
bition in a large case of black walnut, and now form an interesting por- 
tion of the collections of the Institution. They consist of a very ex- 
tensive series of rare though minute specimens of mineralogy, of the 
table service of plate of Smithson, and of the portable chemical and 
mineralogical apparatus with which he made his investigations. 
Besides the above mentioned articles, the Institution has had in its 
possession for several years the library of Smithson, containing 115 
volumes, and a collection of manuscripts, principally consisting of what 
would appear to be the materials of a philosophical dictionary. The 
whole collection taken together serves to exhibit the character of the 
man, and clearly to indicate his intention as to the nature of the Insti- 
tution to which he gave his name. It serves to strengthen the convic- 
tion, if anything of this kind were needed, that the proper interpretation 
of the will has been given by the Regents in adopting the plan which 
makes active operations, the discovery of new truths, and a diffusion 
of these among men, the prominent object of the establishment. 

In this connexion, it may be interesting to repeat a statement made 
in a former report_, that the Institution is in possession of two like- 
nesses of Smithson ; one, a portrait of him while a youth, in the cos- 
tume of a student at Oxford, the other a medallion, from which a steel 
engraving has been executed. The first was purchased from the widow 
of John Fitall, the servant of Smithson, and the other was among his 
effects, and identified by a paper attached to it, on which the w^ords 
" my likeness" were written in Smithson's own hand. A list of the 
papers published by Smithson^ and a record of all the facts which 
could be gathered in relation to him, have been made, to serve here- 
after for a more definite account of his life and labors than has yet 
appeared. 

Gallery of Art. — During the past year this apartment of the Smith- 
sonian building has been enriched by a faithful copy, in Carrara 
marble, of the " Dying G-ladiator," one of the most celebrated statues 
of antiquity. This copy, which is said to be the only one in marble 
in existence, has been deposited here by its owner, F. W. Risque, 
esq., of the District of Columbia, to whom the public of this country 
is indebted for his liberality in the purchase and free exhibition of so 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

costly and interesting a specimen of art, It is by Joseph Gott, an 
English sculptor of high reputation, and its faithfulness, as a repre- 
sentation of the original, is vouched for by a certificate, among others, 
from our lamented countryman, Thomas Crawford. 

The Stanley collection of Indian portraits, which is still in the 
Gallery, has, during the past year, been increased by a number of 
new pictures, and continues to be an object of interest to the visitors 
of the national capital. This collection, now the most extensive in 
existence, of Indian portraits, ought, as we have stated in previous 
reports, to be purchased by government. It is a sacred duty which this 
country owes to the civilized world to collect everything relative to 
the history, the manners and customs, the physical peculiarities, and, 
in short, all that may tend to illustrate the character and history of 
the original inhabitants of North America. The duty which Mr. 
Stanley owes to his family will not permit him to retain the collection 
unbroken, and unless Congress make an appropriation for its pur- 
chase, he will be obliged to dispose of it in portions. Such an event 
would be a lasting source of regret; and, from the interest which a 
number of distinguished members of the Senate and House of Eepre- 
sentatives have expressed in regard to the purchase, we doubt not 
that the proposition will in due time be favorably entertained. 

Lectures. — During the past season the usual number of lectures 
has been given, without any diminution in the size of the audience 
and the apparent interest of the public. 

In connexion with this subject, we may mention, complaints have 
frequently been made against the Institution, on account of the bad 
cocdition of the walks leading to the building ; but it should be recol- 
lected that the grounds belong to the government and are not under 
the control of the Eegents. A plank walk has, however, been laid 
df'wn along the principal thoroughfare and lighted, on nights of lec- 
tures, at the expense of the Institution. 

The Smithsonian lecture-room is found to be the most commodious 
apartment in the District for public meetings, and almost constant 
applications are made for its use. This is granted in all cases, pro- 
vided the actual expense of lighting, heating and attendance be paid, 
and the object for which it is required be consistent with the character 
of the Institution, and not merely intended to advance individual 
interests. The rule which excludes from the lectures any subject 
connected with sectarianism, discussions in Congress and the political 
questions of the day, has been strictly observed. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

The following is a list of the lectures which were delivered during 
the winter of 1857-'58 : 

Seven lectures hy Professor John LeConte, of the South Carolina 
College, on '' The Physics of Meteorology." 

One lecture by Hon. H. W. Hilliard, of Alabama, on the "Life 
and Genius of Milton." 

Two lectures by Dr. I. I. Hayes, of Philadelphia, on " Arctic Ex- 
plorations." 

One lecture by Rev. T. J. Bowen, of Yoruba, Africa, on " Central 
Africa — the Country and People." 

One lecture by D. K. Whitaker, esq., of Charleston, S. C, on the 
'' Genius and Writings of Sir Walter Scott." 

Two lectures by Professor C. C. Felton, of Harvard College, Cam- 
bridge, Mass., on " Modern Greece." 

Four lectures by Dr. James Wynne, of New York, on the " Dara- 
tion of Life in Various Occupations." 

Three lectures by Professor J. P. Espy, on " The Law of Storms." 

Five lectures by Rev. J. H. Mcllvaine, of Rochester, N. Y., on 
"Comparative Philology in some of its bearings upon Ethnology, 
and embracing an account of the Sanscrit and Persian Arrowhead 
Languages." 

Three lectures by G. Gajani, on " The Catacombs, the Coliseum, and 
the Vatican of Rome." 

One lecture by Professor Scheie de Vere, of the University of Vir- 
ginia, on " John Law and the Celebrated Mississippi Speculation." 

From the foregoing "' statements we think it will be generally 
acknowledged that the Institution is steadily pursuing a course of 
usefulness well calculated to make the name of its founder favorably 
known and the results of his bequest highly appreciated in every 
part of the civilized world, that its funds are in a good condition, and 
that the prospect of its future influence in the promotion of know, 
ledge is even more cheering than at any period of its past history. 

Respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

Stcretary S. I. 
Washington, January, 1858. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 



S.MITHSONIAN iNSTITFnON, 

Washington, December 31, 1857. 

Sir : I have tlie honor, herewith, to present a report, for 1857, of the 
operations you have entrusted to my charge, namely, those which re- 
late to the printing, to the exchanges, and to the collections of natural 
history. 

He.-^pectfully suomitted. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Joseph Henry, LL.D., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



Publications. 

The puhlications of the Institution for the year consist of the ninth 
volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, embracing 484 
pages of quarto text and 22 plates, and of the annual report to Con- 
gress, an octavo volume of 468 pages. Considerable progress has 
also been made with the printing of the tenth volume of Smithsonian 
Contributions, 136 pages and five plates being finished. 

The catalogue of North American Diptera, by Baron Ostensacken, 
is nearly through the press and will include 112 octavo pages. 

Exchanges. 

The system of international exchanges so successfully prosecuted by 
the Institution since its establishment has been carried on during the 
year with the happiest results. A large amount of scientific material 
has passed through its hands and has been promptly transmitted to 
its destination. The general details of the system will be presented 
hereafter. 

The returns made to the Smithsonian Institution for its own dona- 
tions wiU be found in the following table: 

A. — Beceipt of hooks, &c., hy exchange in 1857. 

Volumes — Octavo 404 

Quarto 146 

Folio 5 

555 

Parts of volumes and pamphlets — 

Octavo 775 

Quarto _. 255 

Folio 37 

1,067 

Charts and maps 133 

1,760 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



39 



The works received embrace most of the current volumes of scientific 
transactions, with some back series, and are of the highest importance 
as materiaLs of scientific research. 

In the followin*^ tables are exhibited the chief statistics of exchange 
during both 1856 and 1857. The last annual report did not fully 
cover the subject, owing to the fact that a supplementary sending was 
required in January, 1857, to complete that of July, 1856, and a re- 
port for 1856 could not reasonably include what was actually not per- 
formed till the ensuing year. In presenting the series of tables 
throughout, those of transmissions for 1856 are to be uuderstood as 
embracing parcels forwarded in January 1857. This will explain the 
apparent disproportion in amount for the two years, as much of what 
was sent in the beginning of 1857 would otherwise not have gone until 
the ensuinsr summer. 



B. 



Table shnoing the statistics of foreign exchanges of the Smithsonian Inslitulion in 1856. 



Distributed through — 


H 

■g'C 


1^ 

Zi 
Co 

< 


•a 
a 

o 

H 


Number of principal 
packages. 


c. 
= 1 


o 

1 

o 


3 

K 

O 

o 

Zi 

S 
Z 


a 

o 


o - 

x: a. 


. Dr. F. Flilgcl, Leipsic. 


S 

5 

1 

6 

2o 

17 

155 

15 

9 


21 

7 





22 
1:1 
3 
17 
73 
46 
414 
,39 
29 


25 
7 






Norway 














19 
29 
17 
193 
20 
15 


••■"•• 


25 

32 
13 
240 
21 
18 






Russia 








Holland 






































Total 


241 


391 


562 


656 


385 


1,042 


42 


340 


10 423 






2. H, Boisange, Paris. 

France 


79 
42 

d 


1?0 
o3 

1 





187 
95 

14 1 


143 
33 

1 








Italv 










tSpuia and Portugal 









1 





Total 


127 


154 


281 


296 ; 


176 


472 


13 i 


126 


4, 129 




3. The Royal Society and H. Stevens, 
Londjm. 


117 


231 


348 


i 
2oO 


253 


513 


9 


94 


2,914 




4. Otiier channels . . 


2G 


'°i 


36 


39 j 


10 


49 


6| 


26 


800 




51i 


716 


1,227 


1,251 i 


835 


2,076 


70 1 


5*i 


18,27] 





40 



EEPOET OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



c. 



Table showing the statistics of foreign exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution in 1857. 





X 


, 




^ 






-a 


^ 


' 




















fi 






















£ 


-'^ 


1 




^ "C 




3 


J 


0) 


Distributed through — 


H - 


!_ C 

c 


■3 

•3 






CJ 


1 


y, ^ 


-4 
























■1 = 
c 


S p 


o 


M °- 




"a 


e : 


5 


bo 








c 






o 










£ 


< 


Ch 


z 


z 


h 


Z c 


q 


is 


1. Dr. F. Fliisel, Leipsic. 




















Sweden o 


9 


15 




oo 


23 . 










Norway .... 


5 


4 




10 


/ 










Iceland 




















6 
25 


10 
20 




12 
47 


16 
37 










Kussia 


Holland 


17 
142 
15 


9 

160 
20 




32 
29.S 

28 


12 . 
232 

26 . 












Switzerland..., 




7 


16 




18 


29 . 














Total... 


227 


254 


481 


465 


382 


847 


19 


183 


6,928 


2. H. Bossan^e, Paris. 






















69 
32 


63 
24 




114 
51 


77 . 










Italy 


32 










5 

2 






10 
3 












Portugal 


1 




1 . 


















TotaJ 


108 


88 


195 


178 


110 


288 


6 


63 


2,410 


3. 7%e Royal Society and H. Stevens, 




















London. 




















Great Britain and Ireland 


121 

48 


108 


229 


239 


158 


390 


10 


118 


3,910 




10 


59 


90 


10 


100 


5 


20 


1,000 






Grand total 


505 


460 


955 


965 


650 


1,625 


40 


384 


11,248 







SEPOET OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



41 



D. — Packages received hy the 8 mWisonian Institution for foreign dis- 
trihidioti in 1856 and 1857. 



No. of packages 



Albany, N. Y.— 

New York State Agricultural Society 

New York State Medical Society . 

Prof. James Hall ^ 

Baltimore, Md. — 

Philip R. Uhler 

Baton Rouge, La. — 

Institution for Mutes and Blind 

Boston, Mass. — 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Historic-Genealogical Society 

Prison Discipline Society 

Dr. Warren 

B. Homer Di.Kon 

"W. H. Dixon 

Ed. Jarvis 

Ed. Tuckerman 

W. H. Prescott 

Heirs of Amos Binney, M. D 

Cambridge, Mass. — 

American Association for Advancement of Science. 

Cambridge Observatory 

J. D. Kuukle 

Prof. Asa Gray 

Prof D. Treadwell 

Charleston, S. C — 

Dr H. W. Riivenel 

Chicago, III — 

Col. J. D. Graham.U. S. A 

Cincinnati, Ohio — 

M. L. Knapp, M. D 

D. Vaugban 

Columbus, Ohio — 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture 

Frankfort, Ky. — 

Geological Survey of Kentucky 

Georgetovm, D. C. — 

Georgetown College 

Granada, Nicaragua — 

President Ei vas 

Hartford, Conn. — 

Hon. Henry Barnard 

Mr. Potter 

Lansing, Mich. — 

Michigan State Agricultural Socictj- 

Lebanon, Tenn. — 

Prof. Safford 

Lowell, Mass. — 

James B. Francis - 

Madison, Wis. — 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society _ 

Historical Society of Wisconsin 

Neiv Brun.^uirk, N. J. — 

Prof. Geo H. Cook 



1856. 
5 
(; 

8 



18 

392 

65 

1 

32 

5 



28 



50 

1 

200 



24 

24 



100 



283 

22 



50 



IG 



42 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECEETARY. 
D — Continued. 



_Vew Haven, Co7in. — 

Americau Journal of Science 

American Oriental Society _ ._ 

Prof. D. Olmsted 

I\^ew York — 

American Geographical and Statistical Society. 

New York Lyceum of Natural History 

Prof. W. Gibbs 

Philadelphia, Pa. — 

American Philosophical Society 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

Central High School of Pliiladelphia 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania 

Pennsylvania Institute for the Blind 

Philadelphia Library Company 

Dr. Horner, U. S. N 

Isaac Lea 

Dr. Jo.S(!ph Leidy 

Dr. J. A. Meigs 

Providence, R. I — 

State of Rhode Island 

St. Louis, Mo — 

St. Louis Academy of Science .. 

Dr. B. F. Shumard... 

San Francixo, Cal — 

California Academy of Natural Sciences 

Santiago, Chile — 

University of Chile 

Savannah, Ga — 

Dr. Jos. Jones 

Toronto, Canada — 

Canadian Institute 

Washington, D. C. — 

U. S. Patent Office 

Ordnance Bureau 

U S Coast Survey 

National Observatory. 

Light- House Board 

Secretary of War ..„.. 

Surgeon General ,. 

Major W. H. Emory, U. S. A 

W. P. Blake 

Dr. J. S. Newberry 

Lieut. J. C. Ives, U. S. A 

Lieut. G. K. Warren, U. S. A 

Lieut. J. M. Gilliss, U. S. N , 

Wm. Stimpson 

J. C. G. Kennedy 

W. J. Ilhees , 

Miscellaneous , 



No. of packages. 



1856. 
48 

10 



8(j 



42 

300 

100 

4 

45 

10 

100 

171 

134 



12 

50 

140 

50 



250 
46 
67 



120 



Total 



Supposing each parcel to contain an average of one and a half pieces, 
the number of these would be .. 

Add of Smithsonian volumes and memoirs, about 

Add volumes of public documents obtained and distributed, about 

Approximate total of volumes and pamphlets sent abroad by the 
Institution „ _ 



60 
20 
18 
20 



133 
3,510 



5,265 
2,500 
1,500 



9.265 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



43 



E. — Addressed packages received^ hi/ the Smithsonian Institidion from 
Europe, for distribution in America. 

Xo. of packages. 



Albany, N. Y. — 

New York State Library 

Bobion, Mass. — 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Bowditcli Library _ 

Cavihridge, 3Iass. — 

American Association for Advancement of Science. 

Cambridge Astronomical Journal 

Cambridge Observatory 

Harvard College - 

Charleston, S. C. — 

Literary and Philosophical Society - 

Colum'us, Ohio — 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture 

Georgetoicii, D. 0. — 

Georgetown College 

Lansing, Mich.^ 

Michigan State Agricultural Society -.-. 

Madison, Wis — 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Socitity 

Neiv Haven, Conn. — 

American Journal of Science 

American Oriental Society - 

New Orleans, La. — 

New Orleans Academy of Natural Sciences 

New York — 

American Geographical and Statistical Society 

New York Lyceum of Natural History 

Philadelphia, Pa. — 

American Philosophical Society 

Academy of Natural Sciences - 

Franklin Institute 

San Francisco, Cal. — 

California Academy of Natural Sciences 

Santiago, dale — 

University of Chile — 

Observatory 

Washington, D. C. — 

U. S. Patent Office 

National Institute 

Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography 

U. S. Coast Survey ". 

National Observatory 

Surgeon General - 

United States Agricultural Society 

Library of Congress 

Worcester, Mass — 

American Antiquarian Society 

Miscellaneous addresses, institutions 

Individuals 



Total 



1856. 



42 

30 

1 



2-i 

9 

22 

2 

14 

3 

8 

22 

5 
1 

12 

24 

24 

74 

67 
9 



3 
1 

27 

23 

1 

2 

17 

1 

437 
318 



1,245 



In addition to the above, 142 volumes were received from five European institutions for 
distribution to such addresses as might be gekcted by the Smithsonian. 



44 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



DETAILS OF THE SYSTEM OF EXCHANGES. 

As the system of international exchange now carried on by the 
Smithsonian Institution has attained a very great development, a 
sketch of the mode of conducting it may not be amiss at the present 
time. The subject may be considered under two heads, one relating 
to the parcels received from parties in the United States for transmis- 
sion to foreign countries, and the other having reference to receipts 
from abroad for institutions and individuals in America. In con- 
nexion with this subject, it may be stated that a large room in the 
Institution, measuring 70 feet by about 25, is devoted to the depart- 
ment of exchanges, and, besides containing the stock on hand of 
Smithsonian publications and of miscellaneous documents, is fitted up 
on one side with a series of large binns, each one devoted to a partic- 
ular portion of the world, and appropriately labelled. The floor of 
the room is occupied by a series of long tables, five feet wide, on which 
parcels are made up or unpacked. Printed addresses are arranged in 
small pigeon holes, and include nearly all the correspondents of the 
Institution, domestic and foreign, amounting, at the present time, to 
nearly one thousand names. 

Operations connected toith ty-ansmissions from the United States. — The 
transmissions of the Smithsonian Institution are regulated, in a mea- 
sure, by the time when the annual volume of Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions is completed. One or two months before this time, a circular 
letter of advice is transmitted to all the institutions and individuals 
in the United States and the Canadas known or supposed to have 
a desire to avail themselves of the facilities of the Smithsonian sys- 
tem of exchanges, and the conditions stated upon which parcels will 
be received. If any society or individual have published a work 
likely to be of interest to the scientific and literary world abroad, and 
no indication is given of an intention to distribute copies, a special 
application is made for them, and no effort left untried to secure to 
the foreign investigators the benefit of all original and useful Ameri- 
can material. Such appeals are generally responded to very favor- 
ably, and very many })ublications of the different bureaus of the gov- 
ernment, of States, and of State agricultural and historical institutions, 
of societies, and of individuals, have thus been obtained. 

In nearly all cases, in the first instance, at least, the Smithsonian 
Institution is called on to furnish lists of suitable foreign recipients 
for the publications just referred to, or the volumes are sent in bulk, 
to be addressed here. After the first sending, the exchange is usually 
more directly between the parties corresponding, the Institution pre- 
ferring to have the parcels properly addressed before forwarding to 
Washington. In all cases great care is taken to secure the credit of 
the donation to the proper party, and to prevent it being supposed to 
come directly from the Institution. 

To facilitate the selection of suitable recipients for donations or ex- 
changes, the Institution publishes once in two years a carefully pre- 
pared list of foreign institutions for general distribution. The last 
one issued contains over 570 names, but manuscript additions bring 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45 

the number up to about 700. The list of individuals is nearly as large 
as that of institutions. 

To facilitate the selection of recipients for particular works, of which 
a limited number of copies only may be available for distribution, 
classified lists of institutions are kept, as of academies of science gene- 
rally, and of societies devoted to special subjects, as geography, ge- 
ology, zoology, botany, ethnology, statistics, &c., and these are ar- 
ranged from IS^o. 1 upwards, in the order of relative importance, or of 
equable distribution among the centres of learning; thus six copies of 
any work on hand would be assigned to the first six names on the list 
of institutions most interested in it. 

The parcels, as received irom the different portions of North Amer- 
ica, are placed, after being addressed, (if not so alread}^) in their ap- 
propriate receptacles, and the list entered specifically in a record book. 
To facilitate such entry, a detailed invoice of each transmission is re- 
quired, and the failure to furnish it puts the institution to the great 
trouble of making it from the books themselves. 

When the parcels have all been received, a list of the different do- 
nors is printed, together with the titles of the various works which 
the institution has for distribution at the time. On the da.y assigned 
for commencing the labor of making up the packages, the binns are 
emptied successively, the contents arranged carefully on the counters, 
so as to bring everything for one address together, the Smithsonian 
donations are added, and each particular piece is checked off in the 
printed blank just referred to. This rough invoice is numbered and 
handed to the packers, who make up the volumes into one or more 
bundles, and mark them with the number of the invoice, by which 
means they are easily identified and labelled. When parcels or books 
are addressed to individuals, these are usually inclosed in the bundles 
of the societies to which they belong, the number and addresses of 
such sub-packages being marked on the rough invoices. A correct copy 
is made of these lists, and forwarded by mail or otherwise to the par- 
ties, in which is also stated the nature and time of the transmission. 
These invoices are finally posted, to the debit of the party addressed, 
in a large ledger, which shows what each has had, and what return 
has been made to the Institution, The record of each package is, 
therelbre, made four times. 

In sending the invoice of the package for each address, a circular 
is added explaining the objects of the transmission, and the conditions 
on which the exchange will be continued. 

The time occupied in invoicing and making up the packages varies 
with the occasion, although a month is usually required to finish the 
work. After the bundles are all made up, those tor each agent are 
brought into one heap, and they are then packed into boxes, a check 
list being kept of the numbers placed in each box. 

There are three principal agents in Europe who have charge of the 
Smithsonian exchanges in their respective regions : Dr. Felix Fltigel, 
resident in Leipsic, has charge of continental Europe, with the ex- 
ception of France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, (which are supplied by 
Hector J3ossange, of Paris,) and of Greece and Turkey. Henry 
Stevens, of London, is agent for Great Britain and Ireland. Greece 



46 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SKCRETARY. 

and Turkey are usually readied through the American minister at 
Constantinople and the consul at Alexandria. Most of the points in 
Asia and Africa are supplied through the Presbyterian Board of For- 
eign ^Missions in New York, and the American Board in Boston, 
Australia through Mr. I. W. Kaymond, of New York, and South 
America through a variety of channels. 

The boxes for the agents above mentioned, containing the different 
parcels, are then sent from the Institution ; those for Dr. Fliigel being 
shipped from Baltimore, through Oelrichs & Liirman, direct to Bre- 
men, thence by railroad to Leipsic. The boxes for Messrs. Bossange 
and Stevens are shipped by packet from New York. 

The governments of Europe to whose ports shipments are made by 
the Institution have all authorized their admission free of duty, on 
filing an invoice with the customs authorities some time in advance of 
the arrival of the boxes. After being received by the agents, these 
boxes are unpacked, and the different parcels distributed to their desti- 
nation through the channels selected by the intended recipients, accom- 
panied by circular advices from the agents. In Germany the parcels 
are usually transmitted through the booksellers of Leipsic, as they 
may have occasion to send to correspondents in the various towns. 

Exchanijes from foreign countries for America. — The system of ope- 
rations in this case is similar in principle to that just described, 
although the steps take place in inverse order. The packages are sent 
to the agents of the Institution, who inclose them in boxes, which are 
forwarded monthly, or oftener. On being received in Washington 
they are unpacked, an entry made of their contents, and the parcels 
placed temporarily in the binns assigned to their respective addresses. 
They are then assorted, those for each party made up into one bundle, 
and thus forwarded, by express or otherwise, accomj)anied by a blank 
receipt, which is to be signed and returned. 

MUSEUM. 

A. — Increase of the Museum. 

The collections in natural history received during the year 1857 
have been of great extent, and embrace many important additions to 
the material on hand for extending the knowledge of the animal, 
vegetable, and mineral productions of America. The specimens 
received have been from the usual variety of sources ; the most im- 
portant being, as heretofore, those brought in by the different govern- 
ment expeditions, as follows : 

1. Survey of the northwestern boundary line, Archibald Campbell, 
esq., commissioner. — The expedition left in April, 18H7, for Puget 
Sound, and during the year had its main camp for the most part at 
Simeahmoo bay, near the mouth of Frazer's river. Large collections 
of the animals and plants of the Sound have been made by Dr. Ken- 
nerly, surgeon and naturalist of the expedition ; and of minerals and 
fossils by Mr. George Gibbs, the geologist. 



HEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 47 

2. Exploration of the Black Hills and Loup Fork, under Lieutenant 
G. K. Warren, U. S. A — Lieutenant Warren made his third visit to 
the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone region, accompanied, as on pre- 
vious expeditions, by Dr. Hayden as geologist and naturalist. Very 
large collections in all branches of natural history were made and 
brought home, tending, in great measure, to complete our knowledge 
of the distribution of species over the high plains of the west. 

3. Wagcn road to Bridger' s Pass, under Lieutenant F. T. Bryan, U. 
S. A. — During his second year's work on this road to Utah Territory, 
Lieutenant Bryan, as before, was accompanied by Mr. Wm. S. Wood, 
who continued and completed the collections of the preceding year, in 
securing many species not previously obtained. Dr. Wm. A. Ham- 
mond, U. S. A., who accompanied the party as surgeon, also made a 
separate and independent collection of much interest, not only on the 
route, but while stationed at Fort Eiley. In this he was for a time 
assisted by Mr. J. Xantns de Vesey. 

4. Wagon road to California via South Pass, under Wm. 31. 3Ia- 
graio. — This party, accompanied by Dr. James G. Cooper, as surgeon 
and naturalist, aided by C. Drexler, reached Fort Laramie during the 
autumn. The collections in all departments were large and import- 
ant, and were accompanied by copious notes on the species observed. 

5. Survey of the southern boundary of Kansas, under Lieutenant 
Colonel Johnston, U. S. A. — A valuable collection of specimens in 
alcohol was made during the survey by J. H. Clark, esq., astron- 
omer of the expedition. 

6. Survey of the Isthmus of Darien, under Lieutenant N. 3Iichler, U. 
S. A. — This expedition, accompanied by Mr. A. Schott and Messrs. 
Wm. S. and Charles Wood, sailed for Carthagena in October, pro- 
ceeding thence to the isthmus. While at Carthagena a collection of 
birds and shells was made and sent to Washington, and others are on 
their way. 

Among government expeditions fitted out in 1857, but from which 
no collections have yet been received, are the following : 

7. Wagon road route to California via El Paso and Fort Yuma, 
under Colonel Leech. — This expedition was accompanied by Dr. McCay 
and Mr. Hays, both of whom were prepared to make collections in 
natural history. 

8. Exploration of the La Plata and its tributaries, under Captain 
Page, V. S.N. — Christopher Wood doing duty as zoological collector. 

9. Artesian well exp)edition, on the Llano Estacado, under Captain 
Pope, U. S. A. — This is the third expedition to the sterile regions of 
western Texas, conducted by Captain Pope. 



48 EEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

10. Exploration of the Colorado river, under Lieutenant J. G. Ives.— 
This expedition started in September, accompanied by Dr. J. S. 
Newberry, surgeon and geologist, and H. B. MoUhausen, artist and 
zoologist. Stveral collections made by these gentlemen about San 
Diego are on their way_, but have not yet been received. 

The more important private explorations from which specimens 
have been received are as follows : 

11. Region around Fort Tejon, California, hy J. Xantus de Vesey. — 
The collections made by Mr. Vesey will compare favorably with any 
obtained under government auspices, and embrace complete series of 
the animals and plants of the vicinity of Fort Tejon, as far as met 
with ; they also include quite a number of new species. 

12. Southern Illinois and Northern Red river, hy R. Kennicott. — Mr. 
Kennicott, under a commission from the Northwestern University, at 
Evanston, Illinois, to procure for its museum a collection of specimens 
of the natural history of the northwest, visited southern Illinois in the 
spring, and after exploring the vicinity of Cairo and New Madrid 
for several months, proceeded to the Red river of the North, within 
the British possessions, and nearly to Lake Winipeg. The collections 
made cover all branches of zoology. 

13. Coast of Florida, hy G. Wurdemann, United States Coast 
Survey. — Mr. Wurdemann's collections were in continuation of those 
of previous years, and included a great variety of species, among them 
several birds new to the fauna of the United States. 

14. Red river of the North and of Nelson's river, U. B. Territory, 
hy Donald Gunn, esq. — A large collection of birds and mammals made 
in these regions by Mr. Gunn, assisted by Mr. John Isbister, have 
added much to our knowledge of the distribution of species. 

A collection of about 150 species of birds of Arctic America, Mexico, 
and Guatemala, presented by John Gould^ esq., of London, has fur- 
nished very important data for comparison and determination of species 
of the United States. 

Of the numerous ether collections made it is impossible to give an 
account here. The detailed list of contributions and donations will, 
however, furnish additional information on the subject. 

In conclusion it may be proper to state, that of the government expe- 
ditions mentioned above, that under Mr. Campbell was organized by 
the State Department ; those under Lieutenant Warren, Lieutenant 
Bryan, Colonel Johnston, Captain Pope, and Lieutenant Ives, by the 
War Department ; those under Mr. Magraw and Mr. Leech, by the De- 
partment of the Interior ; and those under Captain Page and Lieu- 
tenant Michler, by the Navy Department. 

In the reception of collections from the California coast, the Institu- 
tion is under great obligations to the California Mail Steamship 
Line, composed of the United States Mail Steamship Company, the 



REPORT OP ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



49 



Panama Railroad Company, and the Pacific Steamship Company, as 
also to Messrs. Wells, Fargo, Co., for free transportation of very many 
boxes and packages. The expense of what has been thus received, if 
charged for at the usual rate, would have been entirely beyond the 
means of the Institution, and if in an unprecedentedly short time our 
knowledge of the natural history of California has been carried to a 
point fully equal to that of any of the older States_, it is unquestionably 
owing in very great measure to the liberality of the companies above 
mentioned in so generously seconding the efforts of the Institution. 

The folloioing table exhibits the additions made to the record books of the 
museum in 1857, in continuation of previous years: 





1851. 


1852. 


1853. 


1854. 


1855. 


1856. 


1857. 


Mammals .. . 


None. 


114 


198 


351 
4, 353 
1,275 


1,200 
4,425 
2,050 


2,046 

5, 855 

3,060 

106 

155 


3 200 


Birds 


8 766 


Skeletons and skulls. - 
Reptiles .-..-■ - .. 


911 


1,074 


1,190 


3,340 
239 


Fishes 












613 













Present condition of the museum. 

The remarks in the last annual report of the Institution in relation 
to the richness and extent of its collections are strengthened by the 
additions of the past year, and they are confidently believed to be 
beyond competition in the field of American zoology. The precise 
statistics cannot now be given for the different classes and orders, as 
the cataloguing is not yet completed. In one department, however, 
some idea of the facts may be realized by the statement, that on the 
first of July, 1857, the Institution possessed — 

Species. 

Of skins or alcoholic specimens of North American mammals 20.'> 

Of skins or alcoholic specimens of South American mammals 18 

Of skins or alcoholic specimens of European mammals 60 

283 

Of skulls or skeletons of North American mammals 221 

Of skulls or skeletons of South American mammals 17 

Of skulls or skeletons of European mammals 48 

2S6 



This was entirely exclusive of Cetacea, Pinnipedia, Cheiroptera and 
Quadrumana, of which there were many species. Since the first of 
July, the number of species of all orders has received a large increase. 
The species of North American mammals in the museum of the In- 
stitution, not mentioned in the great work of Audubon and Bachman, 
exceeds 80. Of birds, the North American species are believed to ex- 
ceed 600 ; of reptiles, 400 ; of fishes, probably 800 or more. As all 
these classes are in process of elaboration, accurate statistics can 
probably be presented in the next report. 

4 s 



50 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



Work done in the museum. 

The systematic registration of the Smithsonian collections has been 
carried on as rapidly as other duties would admit. The number of 
species labeled and entered during the year amounted to 5,271 ; most 
of them in three dijS'erent series of records, making nearly 15,000 entries. 
It may be proper to state that all collections, as received, are entered in 
a general record book, of which the alphabetical list of donations ap- 
pended to this report is a trau script. The different specimens are 
next labeled and then entered on the record for the class, or particular 
order, and from this posted in a ledger consisting of separate sheets, 
one for each species, systematically arranged, and each sheet contain- 
ing an enumeration of all the specimens of its species, with the lo- 
calities, sex, date, measurements and other memoranda, making the 
third time of writing out the name and statistics. In this way not 
only can information be obtained of the number of species of each class 
or order, but also of the separate specimens, with the locality and gen- 
eral character of each one. The posting up is complete for the mam- 
mals, birds, and osteological specimens, and well under way for the 
reptiles and fishes, and some orders of invertebrates. 

During the past year the general report on the mammals of the 
Smithsonian collection has been completed and printed, forming volume 
VIII of the Report of the Pacific Railroad Survey. That on the birds 
is far advanced, and will be finished in the course of the ensuing 
year, which will also, it is hoped^ witness the completion of reports 
on the reptiles and fishes. 

Distribution and use of the Smithsonian collections. 

As in previous years, the Smithsonian specimens have been freely 
used by students and investigators in natural history, in preparation 
of Monographs and other researches. Duplicates have also been dis- 
tributed to a considerable extent, and as the collections become better 
arranged and other circumstances allow, it is hoped to make such 
distribution on a very extensive scale. 

List of Donations during the year 1857. 

C. Bellmann. — Fishes, &c., in alcohol, from Mississippi. 

J. and A. Brakeley. — Fresh deer and otter from Virginia ; jar of birds, 
mammals and reptiles from the AUeghenies of Virginia. 

J. Mason Broiun. — Cast of the skull of Daniel Boone, taken previous 
to the re-interment of his remains. 

Lieutenant F. T. Bryan, U. S. A. — Three boxes of zoological spe- 
cimens collected by William S. Wood on the wagon-road expedition 
from Fort Riley to Bridger's Pass. 

Archibald Campbell. — One box of dried skins, and one chest of alco- 
holic specimens collected on Puget Sound by Dr. Kennerly, on the 
northwest boundary survey. 

J. H. Clark. — Chest with two cans filled with reptiles, fishes and 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETAEY. 51 

mammals in alcohol ; specimens of salt from the salt plains of the 
Pewsa, on the southern boundary of Kansas. 
Mr. Cook. — Copper ores from Arizona. 

Dr. J. G. Cooper. — Collections made near Fort Laramie, and thence 
to Independence ; four bottles of Salamanders from New Jersey ; one 
hundred skins of birds from California and Washington Territory. 
L. Coulon. — Box of Swiss mammals. 

Dr. S. Wylie Craiuford, U. S. A. — Thirty-two jars of reptiles and 
mammals from Texas and New Mexico. 

Benjamin Cross. — Golden eagle in the flesh (length 36|- inches ; 
extent, 86 inches ; wing, 25 inches.) 

J. P. Cunningham. — Box of Kaolin earth from Virginia. 
John Day. — Snake from Virginia. 

T. C. Downie. — Coluber couperi q,u^ Geomys pinetis , in alcohol, from 
Georgia. 

C. Drexler. — Skins of six birds and three mammals from near Phil- 
adelphia. 

Dr. J. Evans. — Ten boxes and one bundle of collections of geological 
survey of Oregon ; skins and skull of Felis concolor (panther ;) six 
skulls of Flathead Indians, from Oregon. 

James Fairie. — 25 skins of Lepus aquaticus (marsh hare) and Sciurus 
ludovicianus (Fox squirrel;) birds, reptiles in alcohol, from Louisiana. 
A. B. Forbes. — Viviparous fish {Ennichthys megalops) from Cal- 
ifornia. 

Professor C. G. Forshey. — Cast skin of Scotophis, and skin of mouse, 
from Texas ; specimens of supposed equine fossil foot-marks ; jar of 
alcoholic specimens ; skins of serpents ; dried plants ; skin of Ocelot 
and of Raccoons from Fayette county, Texas. 

W. H. Gantt, 31. D. — Infusorial earth from Texas. 
0. E. Garrison. — Six packages Infusorial earth ; skins of Putorius 
richardsonii and Spermophilus V6-lineatus from Minnesota. 

Dr. W. Gesner. — Jar of Geomys pinetis and Arvicola ; mammals 
and reptiles in alcohol ; two jars of mammals from Georgia. 

George Gihhs. — Box and barrel containing skeleton of large shark, 
from Port Townsend, W. T. ; keg of fishes, from Puget Sound; keg 
of fishes from Columbia river. 

Dr. J. B. Gilpin. — Skins of mammals from Nova Scotia ; fifteen 
skins of Putorius and Sciurus from Labrador and Nova Scotia ; jar 
with 12 mammals, in alcohol, from Nova Scotia. 

W. B. Goodman. — Diatomaceous earth from Anne Arundel county, 
Maryland. 

John Gould. — 160 skins of birds of Mexico and Guatemala ; skins 
of humming birds, {Gampylopterus dslattrii, Trochilus heteropogon and 
EriojMS luciani;) skins of Apternus hirsutus and arcticus. 

Donald Gunn. — Skins of mammals and birds ; skeletons ; speci- 
mens in alcohol from Red river. Skeletons of male and female 
wolverine from Red river, H. B. T. 

Dr. W. A. Hammond, U. S. A. — Box of skins of birds and mam- 
mals from Kansas. Chest and two cans of zoological specimens 
collected during Lieut. Bryan's wagon-road expedition to Bridger's 
Pass. 



52 EEPOST OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

Dr. W. A. Hammond and J. X. de Vesey. — Skins of twentj-four 
birds and of two prairie wolves from Kansas. 

Dr. E. W. Harker. — Skin of Salamander {Geomys pinetis ?) from 
Georgia. 

F. V. Hayden. — Six boxes of fossils collected in the Upper Mis- 
souri prior to 1856. 

C. J. Heistand. — Specimens in alcohol of squirrels, moles, &c., 
from Pennsylvania. 

Dr. E. W. Hilgard. — Specimen of Carocolla from Spain. 

John S. Hiitel. — Human skulls and bones encrusted in stalagmite, 
from a cave in Calaveras county, Cal. 

Col. Hoffman, U. S. A. — Concretions from Cannon-Bail river, Ne- 
braska. 

B. A. Hoopes. — Can of Menohranchus and small mammals from 
Lake Superior. 

Bohert Hoivell. — Two cans of mammals, in alcohol, from Tioga 
county, N. Y. 

Lieut. J. C. Ives, U. S. A. — Fossil DendrecMnus excentricAis, Point 
Lobas, Cal. ; miscellaneous fossils from California ; fossils from 
Gatun, N. G. — all collected by Dr. J. S. Newberry. 

Dr. R TV. Jeffrey, U. S. i^.— Collection of fishes of Norfolk. 

Col. E. B. Jewett. — Keptiles from Texas. 

Dr. C. B. Kennerly. — Jar of mammals in alcohol, and skins of 
SduriLS cinereun, from Clark county, Va. 

IloU. Kennicott. — Six boxes zoological collections made in southern 
Illinois, and in Minnesota to Lake Winipeg. (Deposited.) Gopher 
{Geomys hursarius) from Illinois ; thirty skins of Arvicola and Sorex 
from Illinois ; two living squirrels, [Sciiirus ludovicianus.) 

Major Jno. Leconte. — Astacus laiimanus from Georgia. 

J. MacMinn. — Skins of five mammals from Pennsylvania. 

Wm. M. Mograiu. — Box of skins of birds and mammals ; plants 
from Independence; three boxes zoological collections, plants, &c., 
gathered between Fort Leavenworth and Fort Laramie during the 
South Pass wagon-road expedition. Collected by Dr. J. G. Cooper. 

Geo. P. Marsh. — Minerals from Europe. 

C. C. Martin. — Keg ot reptiles, fish and mammals, from Pennsyl- 
vania and New York. 

W. 3Iassenburn. — Collections of serpents and Crustacea from Florida. 

Maximilian Prinz Von Wied. — Wild boar {Sus scrofa) from Ger- 
many, and skins of chamois (Capella rupricapra) and of female ibex 
{Capra ibex) from Mont Blanc. 

Dr. E. Michener. — Mounted original of Emheriza townsendii. (De- 
posited.) 

D. Miller, jr. — Thirty small mammals, in alcohol, from Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Boht. 0. Milton. — Box of fossils from Michigan. 
H. B. MOllhausen. — Skin of head and skull, with horns, of Eu- 
ropean stag, {Gervus elaphus.) 

W. E. Moore. — Skins of monkeys from Bolivia 

Henry Moores. — Star fishes from California. (Deposited.) 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53 

H. 31. Neisler. — Shells, reptiles, fishes, &c., in alcohol, from 
Georgia. 

Br. J. S. Newberry. — Box of shells, Acapulco ; specimens of coals 
from Ohio. 

Neiu Orleans Academy of Sciences. — Skin of pouched rat (Geomys 
pinetis) from Florida. 

B. 31. Norman. — Three living turtles from New Orleans, {Emy 
mohilensis f) 

B. F. Odell. — Mammals and reptiles from near Lake Winnibigosh- 
ish, Minnesota. 

John Oliphant. — Falco sparverius, in flesh, from Maryland. 

Capt. T. J. Page, U. S. N — Two packages of mate and six bottles 
of water from the Rio Negro and Mato Grosso. 

Br. B. TV. C. Peters. — Skins, birds, and mammals ; reptiles and 
fishes, in alcohol, from New Mexico. 

Thos. 31. Pe;e?-s.— Bottle of reptiles ; skin of Ahastor erythrogram- 
mus from Alabama. 

Prof. Poey. — Two living Emys decussata ; living boa or maja, 
{Epicrates angvlifer ;) collection of reptiles, in alcohol, from Cuba. 

J. P. Postell. — Two living Gophers, {Testudo polyphemus ;) skull 
of Geomys pinetis ; box of shells, and other invertebrata, from Georgia. 

John Potts. — Skins of Bassaris astuta, Putoriusfrenatus and Bidel- 
phys calif ornica, from the city of Mexico. 

Francis B. Bay. — Bottle containing Ophiholus eximius from Mis- 
souri. 

E. Raymond. — Fossil wood from Neuse river, North Carolina. 

J. W. Baymond. — Skin of white raccoon from North Carolina, and 
of Bassaris astuta from California. 

Peter Beid. — Fresh water sponge, in alcohol, from near Lake 
Cham plain. 

Bev. Jos. Boivell. — Monkeys and other mammals^ fishes, &c., in 
alcohol. 

H. de Saussure. — Four bats, Sorex alpinus, 3Iyoxusglis, 3Ius sylvati- 
cus, and musculus, and Arvicola nivalis from the St. Gothard, Switzer- 
land ; other small mammals of Switzerland. 

S. H. Scudder. — Can of mammals, in alcohol ; box of insects from 
Massachusetts. 

Lieut. Semmes, U. S. N. — Syenite from North Greenland. 

J. D. Sergeant. — Jar of mammals from Pennsylvania. 

James Shoemaker. — Snakes and fishes from Roanoke county, Va. 

Col. Wm. B. Slaughter. — Peat from Wisconsin. 

J. Stauffer. — Can of mammals, in alcohol, from Pennsylvania. 

J. J. Steenstrnp, Director of Zoological Museum, Copenhagen. — Six 
jars of invertebrates from Greenland 

J. E. Sternberg . — Four turtles ; two boxes of shells, and of reptiles 
and invertebrates, in alcohol ; box of living plants from Isthmus of 
Panama. 

William Stimpson. — Two kegs and numerous jars of marine inver- 
tebrates and fishes from Massachusetts ; living marine animals for 
aquarium. 

Dr. George Suckley .—^nxiiQY^' skin of elk and of mountain goat, 



54 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

Aplocerus montanus, from Washington Territory; box of birds from 
California ; skins of mammals, birds ; fishes^ shells, minerals, and 
Indian relics, from Washington Territory ; box with skins of mam- 
mals and birds ; plants, &c., from Steilacoom ; box of birds, shells, 
&c., Port Townsend. 

A. S. Taylor. — Jar of vertebrates and crabs from California ; Cali- 
fornia minerals. 

il/r. Tufts. — Living actinia and other marine animals for aquarium. 

Colonel A. Vaughan. — Skins of Vespertilio noctivagans and noveho- 
racensis from Yellowstone river. 

./. X de Vesey and Dr. W. A. Hammond, U. S. A. — Skins of birds 
and mammals from Kansas. 

Dr. D. S. Wall, U. S. A.— Skull of Indian and fragments of pot- 
tery from a mound near Fort Capron, Florida ; skins of birds ; skin 
of manatee, or sea-cow, and (y£ Lynx ; also two birds from Florida. 

William D. Wallach. — Copper ores and native copper from Bay- 
field, Wisconsin. 

Robert B. Waller. — Bottle of Cyprinodonts from Alabama. 

Lieutenant G. IC. Warren. — Two boxes fossils from Blackbird Hill, 
collected by Dr. F. V. Hayden ; collections made by Dr. F. V. Hay- 
den during the exploration of the Black hills in 1857, consisting of 5 
boxes zoological specimens ; 21 boxes fossils and plants, &c. 

C. W. Welch. — Troupial [Lcterus vulgaris) from Laguayra. 

D. Welch. — Menohranclius maculatus from Lake Champlain. 
Samuel Wheat. — Living black snake (Scotophis allegheniensis) from 

Ohio. 

3Ir. Wheeler. — Storeria dekayi from Washington. 

Thomas Whelpley — Fossils from Michigan. 

Dr. D. D. Whil.ehurst. — Box of specimens and cask of fishes, &c., 
in alcohol, from Gulf of Mexico; specimens of fishes (crustacea) from 
Tortugas. 

Dr. S. W. Wilson. — Four living alligators from Georgia ; skeleton 
and skins of otter and deer ; skins of Lejpus palustris ; 24 small mam- 
mals, in alcohol, from Georgia. 

Dr. G. F. Winsloio. — Box of lavas from Sandwich Islands ; fossil 
bones from California. (Deposited.) 

W. 8. Wood. — Bald eagle, Haliaetus leucocephalus, mounted ; mam- 
mals, in alcohol, from Philadelphia. 

G. Wright. — Jar mammals and reptiles from Connecticut ; fishes 
from Cuba, said to be viviparous ; jars of reptiles, fishes, and inver- 
tebrates from Cuba. 

G. Wilrdemann. — Box of invertebrates and skins of birds from In- 
dian Key, Florida ; box of bird skins from south Florida ; box of 
birds, Crustacea, corals, &c., from Key Biscayne, Florida. 

J. E. Younglove. — Bottle of blind fish, {Amhlyopsis,) taken in a well 
in Bowling Green, Kentucky. 

TJnknown. — Box iron ores, St. Louis, Missouri. 
Hesperomys cognatus, in alcohol. 
Hammerhead shark from Norfolk. 
Living raccoon and great horned owl. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



55 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS 

FOR THE YEAR 1857. 



BRITISH AMERICA. 



Name of observer. 



Baker, J. C 

Craigie, Dr. W 

Delany, jr, , John 

Gunn, Donald 

Hall, Dr. Archibald 

Hensley, Ecv. J. M 

Magnetic Observatory 

Small wood, Dr. Charles 

Steuart, A. P. S 



Station. 



Stanbridge, Canada East 

Hamilton, Canada West 

Colonial Building, St. John's 

Newfoundland. 
Red river Settlement, Hudson's 

Bay Territory. 

Montreal, Canada East 

King's College, Windsor, Nova' 

Scotia. 
Toronto, Canada West ... 
St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Canada 

East. 
Horton, Nova Scotia 



N. lat. 


W. long 


o / 


O ' 


45 08 


73 00 


43 15 


79 57 


47 35 


52 38 


50 06 


97 00 


45 30 


73 36 


44 59 


64 07 


43 39 


79 21 


45 32 


73 36 


45 06 


64 25 



Pleight 



t&et. 



85c 



57 
200 



108 
118 



95 



MAINE. 



Name of observer. 



Bell, John J 

Dana, W. D ... 
Gardiner, R. H., 
Guptill, G. W.. 
Parker, J. D... 

West, Silas 

Willis, Henrv-- 
Wilbur, Benj. F 



Station. 



Carmel 

Perry 

Gardiner ... 
Cornish ville 

Steuben 

Cornish 

Portland . . 
Monson 



County. 



Penobscot . . 
Washington 
Kennebec .. 

York 

Washington 

York 

Cumberland 
Piscataquis . 



N. lat. 


W. long. 


O ' 


O ' 


44 47 


69 GO 


45 00 


67 06 


44 11 


69 46 


43 40 


70 44 


44 44 


67 58 


43 40 


70 44 


43 39 


70 15 


43 11 


69 35 



Height. 



Ftd. 
175 
100 

90 
800 

50 
784 

87 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 



Bell, Samuel N 

Bixby, A. H 

Brown, B. Gould 

Freeman, F. N 

Hanscam, R. F 

Mack, E. C 

Odell, Fletcher 

Prescott, Dr. Wm 

Purmort, Nath 

Root, Dr. Martin N... 

Sawyer, Henry E \ 



Manchester 

Francestown 

Stratford 

Claremont 

North Barnstead - 

Londonderry 

Shelburn ... 

Concord 

West Enfield 

Francestown 

Great Falls 

Concord 



Hillsborough. 
Hillsborough 

Coos . . 

Sullivan 

Belknaj) 

Rockingham. 

Coos 

Merrimack .. 

Grafton 

Hillsborough , 
Strafford.... 
Merrimack. . . 



42 59 


! 
71 28 


42 59 


71 45 ! 


44 08 


71 34 


43 29 


72 22 


43 38 


71 27 


42 53 


71 20 


44 23 


71 06 


43 12 


71 29 


43 30 


72 00 


43 00 


71 46 


43 17 


70 52 


43 12 


71 20 



300 

1,000 
535 



700 
374 



56 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

VERMONT. 



Name of observer. 



Bliss, George 

Bliss, L. W 

Buckland, David 

Fairbanks, Franklin 

Marsh, Charles 

Jackman, A 

Paddock, James A... 

Parker, Joseuh 

Petty, McK.'. 



Station. 



Shelburn 

West Fairlee. 
Brandon 

St. Johnsbury 
Woodstock .. 

Norwich 

Craftsbury 

Rupert 

Buriinarton .. 



County. 



Chittenden 

Orange 

Rutland 

Caledonia . 
Windsor ., 
Windsor .. 

Orleans 

Bennington 
Chittenden 



N. lat. 


W. long. 


O ' 


O ' 


44 23 


73 00 


43 55 


72 15 


43 45 


73 00 


44 25 


72 00 


4.S 36 


72 35 


43 42 


72 20 


44 40 


72 30 


43 15 


73 11 


44 29 


73 11 



MASSACHUSETTS. 



Bacon, William 

Bond, Prof. W. C 

Brooks, John 

Darling, L. A 

Davis, Rev. Emerson.. 

Ellis, D. H 

Fallon, John 

Holcomb, Amasa 

Lyons, Curtis J ) 

MaGee, Irving j 

Metcalf, Jno. G., M. D. 
Mitchell, Hon. Wm... 

Perkins, Dr. H. C 

Rice, Henry 

Rodman, > amuel 

Pargent, John S._. 

Schlegel, Albert 

Shaw, Francis 

Smith, E L 

Snell, Prof. E. S 

Tirrell, Dr. N. Quincy. 
Whitcomb, L. F 



Richmond ^ . 

Cambridge 

Princeton 

Bridgewater 

Westfield 

Canton 

Lawrence 

Southwick 

Williamstown.. 

Mendon . 

Nantucket 

New bury port .. 
North Attleboro' 

New Bedford 

Worcester 

Taunton 

Plainfield 

Boston 

Amherst 

Weymouth 

Florida 



Berkshire 
Middlesex 
Worcester 
Plymouth 
Hampden , 
Norfolk .. 

Essex 

Hampden 

Berkshire . , 

Worcester 
Nantucket 

Essex 

Bristol 

Bristol 

Worcester . 
Bristol .... 
Hampshire 

Suflblk 

Hampshire 
Norfolk... 
Berkshire . 



42 23 


73 20 


42 22 


71 07 


42 28 


71 63 


42 00 


71 00 


42 06 


72 48 


42 12 


71 08 


42 42 


71 11 


42 02 


72 10 


42 43 


73 13 


42 06 


72 33 


41 16 


70 06 


42 47 


70 52 


41 59 


71 22 


41 39 


70 56 


42 16 


71 48 


41 49 


71 09 


42 30 


72 56 


42 22 


71 03 


42 22 


72 34 


42 10 


71 00 


42 42 


73 10 



RHODE ISLAND. 



Caswell , Prof. A Providence Providence 



41 49 



'1 25 



CONNECTICUT. 



Edwards, Rev. T , D.D. 

Harrison, Benj. F 

Hull, Aaron B 

Hunt, D 

Rankin, James 

Scholheld, N 

Yeomans, William H.. 



New London New London . 

Walliugford New Haven . . 

Georgetown Fairfield 

Pomfret Windham . . . 

Say brook Middlesex 

Norwich New London. 

Columbia i Tolland 



41 21 


72 12 


41 26 


72 50 


41 15 


73 00 


41 52 


72 23 


41 18 


72 20 


41 32 


72 03 


41 42 


72 16 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

NEW YORK. 



57 



Name of observer. 



Alba, Dr. E. M 

Arden, Thomas B 

Bowman, John 

Byram, Ephiaim N. .. 

Chickering, J. W 

Dayton, E. A 

Denning, William H.. 
Dewev, Prof. Chester ) 

Palmer, F. B f 

Fellows, Henry B 

French, John R 

Gorton, J. S. 

Greene, Prof. Dascom.. 

Guest, W. E 

House, J. Carroll 

House, John C. 

Howell, R 

Ingalls, S. Marshall... 

Johnson, E. W 

Landon, Anna S _. 

Lefferts, John 

Malcolm, Wm. S 

Morehouse, A. W 

Morris, Prof. 0. W 

Norton, J. H 

Paine, H. N.,M. D 

Pernot, Prof Claudius. 

Reed, Edward C 

Reid, Peter 

Riker, Walter H 

Sanger, Dr. W. W 

Sartwell. Dr. H. P 

Sheerar, H. M 

Sias. Prof. Solomon 

Smith, J. Metcalf 

Spooner, Stillman 

Taylor, Jos. W 

Titus, Henry Wm 

Tourtellot, Dr. LA.. 
Van Kleek, Rev. R. D. 

Wliite, Aaron 

Williams, Dr. P. 

Wilson, Rev. W. D 

Woodward, Lewis 

Yale, Walter D 

Zaepffel, I 



Station. 



County. 



Angelica 

Beverly 

Baldwinsville 

Sag Harbor 

Ovid 

Madrid 

Fishkill Landing. 

Rochester ... 

Sennett 

Mexico 

Westfarms 

Troy 

Ogdensburgh 

Lowville. 

Waterford 

Nicholls 

Pompey 

Canton 

Eden 

Lodi . 

Oswego 

Spencertown 

New York 

Plainville 

Clinton 

Fordham . 

Homer .. 

Lake 

Saratoga 

Blackwell's Isl'd. 

Penn Yan 

Wellsville 

Fort Edward 

McGrawville 

Wampsville 

Plattsburgh 

Bellport 

Utica 

Flatbush 

Cazenovia 

Wate^to^vn 

Geneva 

West Concord 

Houseville . 

West Monisania 



Alleghany . 
Putnam . .. 
Onondaga .. 

Suflfolk 

Seneca .. .. 
St. Lawrence 
Dutchess 

Monroe 

Cayuga 

Oswego » 

Westchester 
Rensselaer.. 
St. Lawrence 

Lewis.- 

Saratoga 

Tioga 

Onondaga .. 
St. Lawrence 

Erie 

Seneca 

Oswego 

Columbia 

New York... 
Onondaga ... 

Oneida 

Westchester . 

Cortland 

Washington 

Saratoga 

New York... 

Yates 

Alleghany... 
Washington . 

Cortland 

Madison 

Clinton 

Suffolk 

Oneida , 

Kings 

Madison 

Jefferson 

Ontario 

Erie 

Lewis - 

Westchester . 



N. lat. 



42 15 
41 22 

43 04 

41 00 

42 41 

44 43 

41 34 

43 08 

43 00 

43 27 
40 53 

42 44 

44 43 

43 46 
42 47 
42 00 
42 56 

44 38 
42 30 

42 37 

43 28 

42 19 
40 43 

43 00 
43 00 
40 54 

42 38 

43 15 
43 06 
40 45 
42 42 

42 07 

43 13 

42 34 

43 04 

44 40 
40 44 
43 07 
40 37 

42 55 

43 56 

42 53 

43 00 
43 40 
40 53 



W. long. 



78 01 
72 12 
76 41 

72 20 

76 52 

75 33 
74 IS 

77 51 

76 55 
7G 14 

74 01 

73 36 

75 26 

75 38 
73 31) 

76 32 
76 05 

75 15 

79 07 

76 53 

77 34 

73 41 

74 05 
77 15 

75 20 
74 03 

76 11 

73 33 

74 00 
73 57 

77 11 

78 OG 
73 42 
76 11 

75 50 
73 26 
72 54 



75 
74 



15 
01 
75 46 
75 55 
77 02 
79 00 
75 32 
74 01 



NEW JERSEY. 



Cooke, Robert L 

Schmidt, Dr. E. R 

Sergeant, John T 

Simpson, B. F | 

Willis, 0. R \ 

Whitehead, W. A 



Bloomfield . ... 

Burlington 

Sergeantsville . . 



Essex . 

Burlington 
Hunterdon 



Freehold . Monmouth 

Newark t Essex . 



40 49 


74 11 


40 00 


75 12 


40 29 


75 03 


40 15 


74 21 


40 45 


74 10 



58 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

PENNSYLVANIA. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


N. lat. 


W. long. 


Height. 








o 


/ 


o 


/ 


Feet. 


Brown, Samuel 


Bedford 


Bedford 


40 


01 


78 


30 




Baird, John H 


Tarentum 


Alleghany 


40 


37 


79 


19 


950 


Brickenstein, H. A 


Nazareth .. 


Northampton 


40 


43 


75 


21 




Brugger, Samuel 


Fleming 


Centre 


40 


55 


77 


53 


780 


Coffin, Selden,J 


Easton 


Northampton 


40 


43 


75 


16 


320 




Byberry . 

Pocopson 


Philadelphia 

Chester 


40 


0(i 


74 


58 




Darlington, Fenelon.. 


39 


54 


75 


37 


218 


Edwards, J osepli 


Chromedale 


Delaware. 


39 


55 


75 


25 


196 


Eggert, John 


Berwick 


Columbia 


41 


05 


76 


15 


588 


Friel, P 


Shamokin 


Northumberland. 
Bucks 


40 
40 


45 
1?- 


76 
74 


31 
53 


700 




30 


Heisely, Dr. John 


Harrisburg 


Dauphin 


40 


16 


76 


50 




Hickok, W. 


Harrisburg 


Dauphin 


40 


16 


76 


55 




Hoffer, Mary E 


Mount Joy 


Lancaster 


40 


08 


76 


70 




Jacobs Rev M 


Gettysburg 

Lewisburg 


Adams . 


39 


51 


77 


15 




James, Prof. Charles S. . 


Union 


40 


5R 


76 


58 




Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A. 


Philadelphia 


Philadelphia 


39 


57 


75 


11 


60 




North Whitehall 


Lehigh 


40 


40 


75 


?6 


25C 


Martin, "William 


Pittsburg. 


Alleghany 


40 


30 


80 


00 




Mowry, George 


Somerset. 


Somerset 


40 


02 


79 


02 


2,180 


Ealston, Eev. J. Grier. 


Norristown 


Montgomery 


40 


08 


75 


19 


153 


Schreiner, Francis 


Moss Grove 


Crawford 


41 


40 


79 


51 




Smith, Prof. Wm 


Canonsburg 


Washington 


40 


25 


80 


07 


936 


Smyser, Piev. B. R 


Pottsville 


Schuylkill 


40 


41 


76 


09 




Stewart, Thos. B .. 


Murrysville 


Westmoreland .. 


40 


28 


79 


35 


9GC 


Swift, Dr. Paul 


West Haverford. 


Delaware 


40 


00 


75 


21 




Thickstun, T. F 


Meadville 


Crawford 


41 


39 


SO 


11 


1,088 


Wilson, Prof. W.C 


Carlisle 


Cumberland 


40 


12 


1 1 


11 


500 


Wilson, W.W 


Pittsburg 


Alleghany 


40 


32 


80 


02 


l,02fc 



DELAWARE. 



Craven, Thos. J ) 

Porter, Mrs. E. D. J 


Newark . 

Milford 


New Castle 

Kent 


39 38 
39 55 


75 47 
75 27 


120 
25 









MARYLAND. 



Baer, Miss H. M 

Cofrau, L. R 

Goodman, Wm. R.. 
Haushew, Htmry E.. 

Lowndes, Benj. 

Mayer, Prof. Alfred . 
Pearce, James A., jr. 
Stagg, T. G 



Shellman Hills. - 

Oakland 

Annapolis 

Frederick 

Bladensburg 

Baltimore 

Cliestertawn 

Ridge 



Carroll 

Alleghany 

Anne Arundel 

Frederick 

Prince George 

Baltimore 

Kent 

St. Mary's 



39 23 


76 57 


39 40 


79 00 


38 58 


76 29 


39 24 


77 18 


38 57 


76 58 


39 18 


76 37 


39 14 


76 02 


38 05 


76 18 



DLSTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 



Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. 



Washington ... 



Washington 38 53 



77 01 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

VIEaiNIA. 



59 



Name of observer. 



Astrop, Col. R. F 

Couch, Samuel 

Dickinson, George C 

Ellis, Col. D. H 

Fauntleroy, H. H 

Eraser, James 

Hallowell, Benjamin.. 

Hoff, Josiah W 

Hotchkiss, Jed .. 

Johnson, Enoch D 

Kendall, James E 

Kownslar, Miss Ellen . 

Marvin, John W 

Offutt, J. J.,M. D 

I'atton, Thomas, M. D. 

Purdie, John R 

Ruftin, Julian C 

Ruffner, David L 

Slaven, James 

Upshaw^, George W 

Webster, Prof. N B .. 

Wells, J. Carson 

Wickliue, Thomas J .. 



Station. 



Crichton's Store. 

Ashland 

Rougemont 

Crack Whip 

Montrose 

Mustapha 

Alexandria 

WirtC. H 

Mossy Creek 

Sisterville 

Charleston 

Berry ville 

Winchester 

Capon Bridge 

Lewisburg 

Smithfield 

Ruthven 

Kanawha 

Meadow Dale 

Rose Hill 

Portsmouth 

Salem 

Long wood 



County. 


N. lat. 


W. long. 


Height. 


Brunswick 

Putnam - 

Albemarle 

1 Hardy 


o / 
36 40 
38 38 

38 05 

39 30 

38 07 

39 20 

38 48 

39 05 

38 20 

39 34 

38 20 

39 09 
39 15 
39 16 
38 00 

36 50 

37 21 

38 53 
38 23 

38 00 

36 50 

39 20 

37 30 


o / 

77 46 
81 57 

78 21 

78 31 

76 54 
81 41 

77 01 
81 26 

79 05 

80 56 

81 21 

78 00 
78 10 

78 29 

80 00 

76 41 

77 33 

81 25 

79 35 
76 57 
76 19 

80 01 
79 31 


Fed. 
500 

450 
1,750 


Westmoreland .. 
Wood 


200 


Alexandria 

Wirt 


56 


Augusta 

Tyler 


540 


Jefferson 

Clark 


575 


Frederick 

Hampshire 

Greenbrier 

Isle of Wight... 

Prince George 

Kanawha 

Highland 

Essex — 

Norfolk 

Roanoke 

Rockbridge 


2,000 
100 

250 

34 

1,10C 


80C 



NORTPI CAROLINA. 



Johnson, Dr. W. M... 

McDowell, Rev. A 

McDowell, W. W 

Moore, Geo. F., M. D. 
Morelle, Daniel 



Warrenton . . 
Murfreesboro' 

Asheville 

Gaston 

Goldsboro' . . 



Phillips, Rev. Jas. , D. D Chapel Hill 



Warren 

Hertford 

Buncombe 

Northampton 

Wayne 

Orange 



36 30 


78 15 


36 30 


77 06 


35 37 


82 29 


36 32 


77 45 


35 20 


77 51 


35 54 


79 17 



SOUTH CAROLINA. 



Cornish , John H 

Dawson, John L. , M, D. 

Fuller, E.N.,M. D .j 

Glennie, Rev. Alex'r.. 
Johnson, Joseph, M. D 
Young, J. A., M. D... 



Aiken 

Charleston 

Edisto Island 

Mount PJeisant . 

Waccaman 

Charleston 

Camden 



Barnwell . 
Charleston 
Colleton. - 
Laurens.. 
All Saints 
Charleston 
Kershaw . 



33 32 


81 34 


32 46 


80 00 


32 34 


80 18 


32 47 


79 55 


33 40 


79 17 


32 46 


80 00 


34 17 


80 33 



GEORGIA. 



Anderson, Jas , M. D . 

Arnold, Mrs. J. T 

Easter, Prof. John D.. 
Gibson, R, T 



The Rock 

Zebulon 

Athens 

Whitemarsh Is'd. 



Upson ... 

Pike 

Clarke .. 
Savannah 



32 52 


84 23 


33 07 


84 26 


33 58 


83 SO 


32 04 


81 05 



60 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

GEOEGIA— Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Glover, Eli S 

Haines, William 

Pendleton, E.M.,M.D 

Posey, John F 

Eeid, James M 

Simpson, F. T 



Station. 



Hillsboro' 

Augusta . 

Sparta 

Savannah 

Philomath . . . 
Factory Mills 



County. 



Jasper 

Richmond 
Hancock .. 
Chatham .. 
Oglethorpe 
Wilkes.... 



N. lat. 


W. long. 


O ' 


O ' 


33 13 


83 45 


33 20 


81 54 


33 17 


83 09 


32 05 


81 07 


33 45 


83 15 


33 40 


84 46 



FLORIDA. 



Bailey, James B 

Baldwin, A. G., M. D 

Batchelder, F. L 

Dennis, Wm. C 

Fry, Joseph 

Hester, Lieut. J. 
W., U. S. N... 

Ives, Edward R 

Mauran, P. B., M. D 
Steele, Judge Aug.. 
Whitner, Benj. F 



Gainesville 

Jacksonville 

Hibernia 

Salt Ponds 



Pensacola 



Alachua.. 

Duval 

Duval 

Key West 



Escambia. 



Alligator _ . | Columbia 



St. Augustine 

Cedar Keys 

Belair 



St. John's. 

Levy 

Leon 



29 35 


82 26 


30 30 


82 00 


30 15 


81 30 


24 33 


81 48 


30 20 


87 IG 


30 12 


82 37 


29 48 


81 35 


29 07 


83 02 


30 24 


84 20 



ALABAMA. 



Alison, H. L , M. D... 

Barker, Thomas M 

Darby, Prof. John 

Tutwiler, Henry 

Waller, Robert B 



Carlowville I Dallas . 

Ashville . ' St Clair 

Macon _ 
Greene. 
Greene . 



Auburn 

Greene Springs., 
Greensboro' 



Barton, Dr. E. H. 

Kilpatrick, A. R.,M. D. 
Merrill, Edward, M. D. 
Taylor, Lewes B 



New Orleans 

Trinity 

Trinity 

New Orleans 



32 10 


87 15 


33 52 


86 20 


32 37 


8a 34 


32 50 


87 46 


32 40 


87 34 





MISSISSIPPI. 








Elliott, Prof. J. Boyd.. 
Lull, James S 


Port Gibson 

Columbus 


Claiborne 

Lowndes . 


31 50 
33 30 


91 01 

88 29 


■ 100 
227 


LOUISIANA. 



Orleans 

Chatahoula 
Chatahoula 
Orleans 



29 57 


90 00 


31 30 


91 46 


31 37 


91 47 


29 57 


90 00 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVEES. 

TEXAS. 



61 



Name of observer. 



Brightman, John C. ■< 

Forke, J. L 

Forke, A I 

Friedrick, Otto j 

Gaatt, Dr. Wm. IT 

Jennii]g-;,S.K.,M.D 

Van Nostrand, J.. 
Rucker, B. H 



Station. 



County. 



Goliad 

Helena 

New Wied. 



Goliad . 
Karnes. 
Comal . 



New Braumfels.. Comal . 

Union Hill Washington 

Austin Travis 

Washington I Washington 



N. lat. 


W. long 


O ' 


O ' 


28 3n 


97 15 


29 00 


97 5G 


29 42 


98 15 


29 41 


98 15 


30 30 


96 31 


30 20 


97 46 


30 2C 


96 15 



Height. 



TENNESSEE. 



Bean, James B ..| Walnut Grove Greene 

Stewart, Prof. Wm. M. Glcuwood Montgomery. 

Tuck, W. J., M. D Memphis Shelby 

Wright, Dr. Dan' 1 F.. Memphis Shelby 



36 00 


82 53 


36 28 


87 13 1 


35 08 


90 00 


35 08 


90 00 



KENTUCKY. 



Beatty, 

Ray, L. G., M. D 

Savage, Rev. Geo. S 

Young, Mrs. Lawrence. 



Danville Boyle 

Paris Bourbon . 

Millersburg ! Bourbon . 

Springdale | Jefferson 



37 40 


84 30 


: 38 16 


84 07 


38 20 


84 20 


38 07 


85 34 



OHIO. 



Abell, B. F 

Allen, Prof Geo. N... 

Ammen, J 

Anthony, Newton 

Atkins, Rev. L. S 

Benner, J. F 

Bennett, Henry 

Binkerd, J. S 

Bosworth, Prof. R. S.. 
Cunningham, Miss A.- 
Dayton , Lewis M 

Gilmor, Moses 

Hannaford, Ebenezer.. 

Harper, George W 

Herrick, James D 

Hollenbeck, F. &D.K. 
Holston, J. G. F.,M. D. 

Hurt, Francis W 

Hyde, Gustavus A 

Ingram, John, M. D 

Janes, C. C 

Luther, S. M 



Welchfield 

Oberlin 

Ripley 

Mount Union 

Madison 

New Lisbon _-.. 

Collingwood 

Germantown 

College mil 

Union ville 

Lancaster 

Jackson . 

Cheviot 

Cincinnati 

Jefferson 

Perrysburg 

Zanesville 

Cincinnati 

Cleveland 

Savannah 

Hillsborough . . . 
Hiram .... 



Geauga 

Loraine 

Brown 

Stark 

Lake 

Columbiana 

Lucas 

Montgomery 
Hamilton .. 

Lake 

Fairfield . . . 
Jackson . .. 
Hamilton .. 
Hamilton .. 
Ashtabula. . 

Wood 

Muskingum 
Hamilton ... 
Cuyahoga .. 

Ashland 

Highland. 
Portage 



41 23 


81 12 


41 20 


82 15 


38 47 


83 31 


41 20 


81 01 


41 49 


81 10 


40 45 


80 46 


41 49 


83 34 


39 39 


84 11 


39 19 


84 25 


41 52 


81 00 


39 40 


82 40 


39 10 


82 32 


39 07 


84 34 


39 06 


84 27 


42 00 


81 00 


41 39 


S3 40 


39 58 


82 01 


39 06 


84 34 


41 30 


81 40 


41 12 


82 31 


41 20 


81 15 






METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

OHIO— Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Station. 




N. lat. 



W. long. 


o 


, 


83 


30 


82 


01 


83 


45 


82 


49 


82 


01 


82 


34 


81 


00 


84 


10 


83 


40 


84 


11 


83 


45 


81 


05 


81 


47 


83 


43 



Height. 



Mathews, Joseph McD. 

McCarty, H. D 

Peck, W. R., M.D.... 

Poe, James H 

Roger, A. P 

Sanford, Prof. S. N.... 

Sanford, Smith ; 

Schenck, W. L , M. D.! 

Shaw, Joseph — I 

Shaw, Joseph 

Shields, Robert ) 

Smith, JohnC j 

Treat, Samuel W 

Ward, L. F 

Williams, Prof. M. G.. 



Hillsborough . . . 
West Bedford... 
Bowling Green _. 

Portsmouth 

Gallipolis 

Granville 

Edinburg 

Franklin 

Bellefontaine . .. 
Sidney 

Bellecentre 

Windham 

Medina 

Urbana 



o ' 

Highland 39 13 

Coshocton 40 18 

Wood ! 41 27 

Scioto I 38 50 

Gallia j 39 00 

Licking | 40 03 

Portage j 41 20 

Warren j 39 30 

Logan 40 21 

Shelby 40 21 



Logan 

Portage 

Medina 

Champaign . 



40 28 

41 10 
41 07 
40 06 



1,0c 



MIUHIGAN. 



Allen, James 

Andrews, SethL., M.D. 
Campbell, Wm.M.,M.D. 

Crosby, J. B — 

Currier, Alfred 

Streng, L. H 

Walker, Mrs.OctaviaC. 

Whelpley, Miss H 

White, Peter 

Whittlesey, Chas. S... 

Winchell, Prof. A 

Woodruff, Lum 



Port Huron 

Romeo 

Battle Creek 

New Buffalo 

Grand Rapids .. 
Grand Piiipids. . 

Cooper 

Monroe 

Marquette 

Copper Falls 

Ann Arbor 

Ann Arbor 



St. Clair... 

Macomb 

Calhoun 

Berrien 

Kent 

Kent 

Kalamazoo. 

]\Ionroe 

Marquette . 
Houghton . 
Washtenaw 
Washtenaw 



42 53 


82 24 


42 44 


83 00 


42 20 


85 10 


41 45 


86 46 


43 00 


86 00 


43 00 


86 00 


42 40 


85 31 


41 56 


83 22 


46 32 


87 41 


47 25 


88 16 


42 16 


83 44 


42 16 


83 30 



INDIANA. 



Barnes, C 

Chappellsmith, John.. 

Crisp, John F 

Lasselle, Charles B 

Moore, Joseph. 

Smith, Hamilton 

Woodard, C. S _. 



New Albany 

New Harmony . . 

Evans ville 

Logansport. 

Richmond 

Caunelton 

Michigan City 



Floyd 

Posey 

Vanderburgh 
Cass 

Wayne . 

Perry 

La Porte 



38 17 


85 45 


38 08 


87 50 


38 08 


87 29 


40 45 


86 13 


39 47 


84 47 


37 58 


86 40 


41 41 


86 53 



ILLINOIS. 



Babcock, Andrew J — 
Babcock, E 

Baker, Frank 

Bowman, Dr. E. H... 
Brendel, Fred'k, M.D. 
Eldredge, William V. 



iiurora Kane 

Riley McHenry. 



South Pass. 
Edgiugton , 

Peoria 

Brighton. 



Union. 
Rock Island. 

Peoria 

Macoupin... 



41 40 


88 15 


42 08 


88 33 


37 28 


89 14 


41 25 


90 46 


40 36 


89 30 


, 39 00 


90 13 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

ILLINOIS— Continued. 



63 



Name of observer. 



Station. 



County. 



N. lat. 


W. long. 


O ' 


' 


39 33 


90 34 


39 52 


89 56 


41 20 


88 47 


41 53 


87 41 


39 00 


89 36 


41 14 


89 21 


40 12 


89 45 


41 52 


88 20 


40 36 


89 45 


42 14 


88 38 


42 18 


88 06 


40 09 


.88 17 


38 30 


88 00 


40 23 


90 17 


40 20 


91 31 



Height. 



Grant, John 

Hall, Joel 

Harris, J. 0..M. D... 
Hiscox, G. D 

James, Anna 

Jenkins, J. L 

Mead, S. B , M. D 

Mead, Thompson 

Rihlet, J. H 

Eogers, 0. P 

Smith, Isaac H 

Swain, John, M. D 

Titze, Henry A 

Wallace, Samuel Jacob 
Whitaker, Benjamin .. 



Manchester 

Athens 

Ottawa 

Chicago 

Upper Alton 

Granville 

Augusta 

Batavia 

Pekin 

Marengo 

Fremont Centre 
West Urbaua... 

West Salem 

Carthage 

Warsaw 



Scott 

Menard 

La Salle... 

Cook 

Madison 

Putnam 

Hancock 

Kane 

Tazewell . . 
McHenry. . 

Lake 

Champaign 
Edwards . . 
Hancock . . 
Hancock . . 



MISSOUEI. 



Wislizenus, A., M. D. ; St. Louis. 



St. Louis. 



38 37 



90 16 



IOWA. 



Beal, Dexter ) 

Beal, WillardW.. [ 

Beeman, Carlisle D 

Fory, John C 

Goss, William K 

Hobart, Edward F 

Horr, Asa, M. D 

McConnell, Townsend. 

McCready, Daniel 

Parker, Nathan H 

Parvin, T. S | 

Ee}Tiolds, W 

Saville, Dr. J. J i 

Shaffer, J. M., M. D..J 
Smith, Prof, B. Wilson 



Franklin. _ 

Piossville 

Bellevue 

Border Plains 

Maquoketa 

Dubuque 

Pleasant Plain 

Fort Madison 

Clinton 

Muscatine 

Iowa City 

Sioux City 

Fairfield 

Mount Vernon 



Buchanan . 

Allamakee 

Jackson 

Webster . . 

Jackson 

Dubuque. 
Jefferson . . 

Lee 

Clinton 

Muscatine 
Johnson.. 
Woodbury 
Jefferson . 
Linn 



42 45 


87 16 


43 10 


91 21 


42 15 


90 25 


42 36 


94 05 


42 04 


90 41 


42 30 


90 52 


41 07 


91 54 


40 37 


91 28 


41 48 


90 15 


41 26 


91 05 


41 39 


91 33 


42 31 


96 25 


1 41 01 


91 57 


! 42 00 

1 


91 00 



WISCONSIN. 



Bean, Prof. S. A ) 

Slye, L. C, M. D. \ 

Breed, J. Everett 

Chandler, Marine T.W. 

Durham, W. J 

Ellis, Edwin 

Gridley, Rev. John 

Hillier, Spencer L 

Himoe, John E 



Waukesha 

New London 

Falls of St. Croix 

Kacine 

Bay City 

Kenosha 

Prescott 

Norway 



Waukesha 

Waupacca 

Polk 

Racine 

La Pointe 
Kenosha . 

Pierce 

Racine ... 



42 50 


88 11 


44 21 


88 45 


45 30 


92 40 


,42 49 


87 40 


46 33 


91 00 


42 35 


87 50 


44 56 


92 40 


42 50 


88 10 



833 

660 

658 
600 
800 
753 



64 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

WISCONSIN— Coutinued. 



Name of observer. 



Lapham, Increase A. 

Lups, Jacob 

Mason, Prof. R. Z... 
Pickard, J. L., M. D 

Pomeroy, F. C. 

Porter, Prof Wm... 

Schue, A., M. D 

Sterling. Prof. J. W. 

Struthers, R. H 

Underwood, Col. D.. 
Winkler, C, M. D-. 
Willard, J. F 



Station. 



Milwaukie. 
Manitowoc 
Appleton. . 
PJatteville. 
Milwaukie. 

Beloit 

Madison . . . 
Madison . . . 

Lind 

Menasha .. 
Milwaukie. 
Janesville . 



County. 



Milwaukie. 
Manitowoc 
Outagamie. 

Grant 

Milv/aukie. 

Rock 

Dane 

Dane 

Waupacca . 
Winnebago 
Milwaukie - 
Roek 



N. lat. 


W. long. 


O 1 


C ' 


43 03 


87 57 


44 07 


87 37 


44 10 


88 35 


42 45 


91 00 


43 04 


87 59 


42-30 


89 04 


43 05 


89 25 


43 05 


89 25 


44 20 


89 00 


44 13 


88 IS 


43 04 


87 57 


42 42 


89 91 



MINNESOTA. 



Garrison, 0. E . 

Hillier, Spencer L. . 
OdeU, Rev. Benj. F 

Riggs, S. R. 

Walsh, Stephen 

Wright, E.M 



Princeton 

Wabashaw 

Lake Winuibi- 
goshish. 

Hazlewood 

Buchanan 

Lapham 



Benton 

Wabashaw. 



Pembina 



45 50 


93 45 


44 30 


92 15 


47 30 


94 40 


45 


95 30 


47 33 


92 00 


46 10 


96 00 



NEBRASKA. 



Byers, Wm. N 

Hamilton, William.. 



Omaha 1 Douglas. 

Bellevue Sari^y . . . 



KANSAS. 




Brown. G. W 

Fish, Edmund 

Gooduow, Isaac T. . 
Himoe, S 0., M. D 
McCarty, H. D 



Lawrence 

Council City 

Manhattan 

MajDleton 

Leavenworth City 



Douglas 

Shawnee 

Riley , 

Bourbon 

Leavenworth 



38 58 


95 12 


38 42 


95 50 


39 13 


96 45 


38 04 


94 51 


39 20 


94 33 



UTAH. 



Phelps, Henry E. 



Great Salt Lake 
City. 



40 45 111 26 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

CALIFORNIA. 



65 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


N. lat. 


W. long. 


Height. 


Ayres, W. 0., M. D 

Belcher, W. C 


San Francisco 

Marysville 

Sacramento 


San Francisco 

Yuba 


o / 

37 48 
39 12 

38 35 


- 

O ' 

122 23 
121 42 
121 40 


Ffxt. 
115 


Logan, Thos. M., M.D. 


Sacramento 


49 



GUATEMALA. 

CANUDUS, ANTONIO COLLEGE. 

SOUTH AMERICA. 



Name of Observer. 


Station. 


Lat. 


Lon. 


Height. 


Fendler, A 


Colonia Tovar, Venezuela 

Port of Spain , Trinidad 


' 

10 26 
10 39 

5 48 
4 36 


O ' 

67 20 
61 34 

56 47 
74 14 


Feet. 
6 500 


Geological Survevors. . . . 


i<; 


Hering, C. J. -...__ 


Plantation, Catharina Sophia, 
Colony of Surinam, Dutch Gui- 
ana 








Uricoschea, Dr. E 


Bogota, New Granada ..._ 


8,863 








BERMUDA. 


Arnold, James B. ........ 


Shelby Bay .. 


32 28 


64 32 




Royal Gazette .... 












AZORES. 


Dabney, S. W 


Honta, Fayal Island ....... 


38 30 


28 42 


80 









6 s 



66 EEPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 



EEPOl^T or THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Ee- 
gents the following report of the receipts and expenditures of the 
Smithsonian Institution during the year 1857, witli estimates for the 
year 1858 : 

KECEIPTS. 

The whole amount of Smithson's bequest deposited in 
the treasury of the United States is $515,169, from 
which an annual income, at 6 per cent., is derived, of $30,910 14 

Extra fund from unexpended income invested as 
follows : 
In $75,000 Indiana 5 per cent, bonds, 

yielding $3,750 00 

In $53,000 Virginia 6 per cent, bonds, 

yielding 3,210 00 

In $7,000 Tennessee 6 per cent, bonds, 

yielding .^ 420 00 

In $500 Georgia 6 per cent, bonds, yield- 
ing 30 00 

In $100 Washington 6 per cent, bonds, 

yielding 6 00 

7,416 00 

38,326 14 
Balance in hands of Treasurer Janu- 
ary 1, 1857 7,164 32 

Total receipts $45,490 46 



GENERAL STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES. 

For building, furniture, and fixtures „ $4,062 65 

For items common to the different objects 

of the Institution 13,035 18 

For publications, researches, and lectures. 11,051 52 
For library, museum, and gallery of art.. 6,999 81 

$35,149 16 

Balance in the hands of the Treasurer January 1, 

1858, of which $5,000 belongs to the extra fund. 10,341 30 



REPOKTS OF COMMITTEES. 
Statement in detail of the expenditures during 1857 : 

BUILDING, FURNITURE, FIXTURES, ETC. 

Eepairs, &c., incident to building $3,305 12 

Furniture and fixtures for uses in common. 373 61 

Furniture and fixtures for library 163 50 

Furniture and fixtures for museum 150 80 

Magnetic observatory 49 62 

Grounds 20 00 



67 



$4,062 65 



GENERAL EXPENSES. 

Meetings of Board and Committees $281 00 

Lighting and heating 1,244 33 

Postage 524 02 

Transportation and exchange 2,264 74 

Stationery 347 94 

General printing 236 50 

Apparatus 191 66 

Laboratory 341 38 

Salary of the Secretary 3,499 92 

Chief clerk 1,200 00 

Book-keeper 200 00 

Janitor 400 97 

Watchmen 534 65 

Laborers 794 00 

Messenger 128 00 

Extra clerk hire 222 00 

Incidentals, general o 624 07 



13,035 18 



PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES. 

Smithsonian Contributions $6,230 02 

Eeports on progress of knowledge 342 00 

Other publications 649 90 

Meteorology 2,465 24 

Investigations, computations, and re- 
searches , 250 00 

Pay of lecturers 980 00 

Incidentals to lectures... 134 36 



11,051 52. 



LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. 

Cost of books $2,019 83 

Pay of assistants 1,194 12 

Transportation for library ' 200 00 

Museum— salary 1,999 92 



68 EEPOETS OF COMMITTEES. 

Explorations 157 52 

Collections 49 78 

Alcohol, jars, and museum incidentals 445 77 

Transportation for museum 450 00 

Assistance and labor in museum 500 00 

Gallery of art 82 87 

$6,999 81 

Total expenditure $35,149 16 

The estimated income for the year 1857 was $38,290 14, exclusive 
of the balance in the hands of the Treasurer ; the actual income ex- 
clusive of this balance was $38,326 14. 

The estimated expenditure amounted to $34,000, the actual ex- 
penditure to $35,149 16. The excess is due to unexpected repairs, 
necessary to the building in consequence of a very severe hail 
storm, which broke several thousand panes of glass, and otherwise 
injured the edifice ; and to the payment of the last unsettled account 
contracted by the architect for the gas pipes and fixtures. 

The expenditures, however, are less than the income for the year, 
leaving a total balance now in the hands of the Treasurer of $10,341 30. 
Of this sum^ $5,000 are the remainder of the extra fund, ($125,000,) 
intended to be permanently invested, and the whole is at present re- 
quired for carrying on the operations of the Institution, until the 
receipt of the next semi-annual income. 

During the past year, the stocks purchased by the Institution tem- 
porarily declined in commercial value, but they are now selling at 
about the same prices as those at which they were bought. Fluctua- 
tions, however, of this character do not affect the income of the Insti- 
tution, since the amount of interest continues permanently the same. 

The committee respectfully submit the following estimate of the 
receipts and expenditures for the year 1858 : 

Receipts. 

Balance in the hands of the Treasurer January 1, 1858, 

(exclusive of $5,000 belonging to the extra fund) $5,341 30 

Interest on the original fund for 1858 .- 30,910 14 

Interest on the extra fund invested in State stocks 7,416 00 



1,667 44 
Expenditures. 

BUILDING, FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, ETC. 

Repairs and incidentals $1,500 00 

Furniture and fixtures in common 500 00 

'' " for library ! 150 00 

'' " for museum 150 00 

Magnetic observatory 50 00 

$2,350 00 



REPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 69 



GENERAL EXPENSES. 

Meetings of Board and committees $300 00 

Lighting and heating 600 00 

Postage 500 00 

Transportation and exchange 2,500 00 

Stationery 350 00 

General printing 350 00 

Apparatus 250 00 

Laboratory 400 00 

Incidentals, general 650 00 

Salaries. — Secretary 3,500 00 

Chief clerk 1,400 00 

Book-keeper 200 00 

Janitor..... 400 00 

Watchman 500 00 

Laborers 800 00 

Extra clerk hire 300 00 



$13,000 00 



PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES AND LECTURES. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge... $6,500 00 

Reports 1,500 00 

Other publications 1,000 00 

Meteorology 3,000 00 

Investigations, compucations, and researches 250 00 

Lectures 1,000 00 



13,250 00 



LIBRARY, MUSEUM AND GALLERY OF ART. 

Cost of books $3,000 00 

Pay of assistants in library 1,200 00 

Transportation for library 400 00 

Incidentals for library 150 00 

Museum— salary 2,000 00 

Explorations 50 00 

Collections , 50 00 

Incidentals, museum, jars, alcohol, &c 300 00 

Transportation, museum 550 00 

Assistants and labor, museum 600 00 

Gallery of art 100 00 



8,400 00 
$37,000 00 



It is impossible to make a very definite estimate of the expendi- 
tures on account of the museum, during the year 1858, because the 



70 EEPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 

collection at the Patent Office is to be transferred to tlie keeping of 
the Institution, and the amount of expenditures under this head will 
depend upon the appropriation made by Congress for this purpose. 

In conclusion, the committee report that they have examined the 
books, and each account for the past year, separately, and find them 
all correct. 

Kespectfully submitted. 

J. A. PEAKCE, 
A. D. BACHE, 
JOS. G. TOTTEN, 

Executive Committee, 



SEPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 71 



KEPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE. 



The building of the Smithsonian Institution having been completed, 
the special object of the Building Committee for which it was originally- 
appointed, might be considered accomplished, and therefore an annual 
report no longer necessary ; but as a large portion of the edifice re- 
mained unfinished, and since repairs are required which will probably 
be very expensive, it is thought proper that the committee should be 
continued. 

At the last session of Congress an appropriation of fifteen thousand 
dollars was made for cases for the accommodation of the collections 
belonging to government. These are now finished and form a beauti- 
ful addition to the large hall, and are apparently well adapted to the 
purpose for which they are intended. With strict economy the appro- 
priation of Congress has been found sufficient to provide accommoda- 
tions for the present reception of the articles, though in the course of 
time additional cases will be required. 

The west wing of the building, devoted to the library, has been 
furnished with alcoves and a gallery extending around three sides of 
the large room. This arrangement, which will serve very much to 
increase the accommodation and security of the books, produces a 
very pleasing architectural efiect. 

The large cisterns in the grounds near the building, which were 
directed to be arched over at the last session of the Board, have been 
properly secured, and one of them converted into an ice-house. 

The balance of a bill for gas fixtures, which had been contracted by 
the architect, and which remained unsettled, on account of a disagree- 
ment as to certain charges, has been finally paid, after a reduction of 
1352 99. 

The peculiar style of architecture of the building, and the large 
amount of surface it exposes to the weather, renders constant repairs 
necessary. During the past year almost the whole time of two work- 
men has been occupied in this service. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

RICHAED RUSH, 
WM. H. ENOLISH, 
JOSEPH HENRY, 

Building Committee. 



72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTIOK 



MONDAY, March 16, 1857. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 11 o'clock 
a. m. 

Present : Hon. R. B. Tanej, Chancellor, Hon. John C. Breckin- 
ridge, James M. Mason, S. A. Douglas, Gen. Jos. G. Totten, Prof. 
A. D. Bache, Wm. B. Magruder, and the Secretary. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Chancellor, Chief Justice Taney, then presented the following 
communication : 

Washington, 3Iarcli 16, 1857. 

Gentlemen : When the Board of Regents was originally organized 
it was deemed proper that the Vice President of the United States for 
the time being should be elected as the Chancellor. The Institution 
exists under the authority of Congress, and they have made certain 
officers of the government ex officio Regents. The Vice President is 
the highest in rank of the officers thus designated ; and it would seem 
to be peculiarly proper that the one who presides over the delibera- 
tions of one branch of the national legislature should also preside over 
the deliberations of a scientific institution which the nation has brought 
into existence and fosters. 

Unfortunate events have for some time past left the government 
without a Vice President elected by the people. And when that office 
was vacant the Regents conferred on me the office which had always 
before been filled by the Vice President. And when I accepted it I 
regarded the appointment as a temporary one. The reason for the 
appointment has now happily ceased, and I desire to give the Regents 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 73 

an opportunity of restoring the original plan of organization, in which 
I fully concurred when it was adopted. 

I therefore resign the office of Chancellor of the Institution, and at 
the same time return my thanks for the honor which the Eegents 
bestowed upon me in electing me to that office. 

But my resignation will not lessen the interest I feel in the Insti- 
tution. On the contrary, every year's experience has more and more 
convinced me of its usefulness and efficiency in promoting the objects 
of its founder, and I shall always be ready to offer my humble aid if 
I can be useful in advancing its prosperity and success. 

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, your obedient 
servant, 

E. B. TANEY. 

To the Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Mr. Breckinridge, Vice President of the United States, moved that 
the present Chancellor, Chief Justice Taney, be re-elected to that 
office, expressing his unwillingness to assume the position which had 
been so long and so ably filled by its present occupant. 

The motion was adopted unanimously, whereupon Judge Taney 
remarked that he was anxious to serve the Institution to the best of 
his ability, and he could not decline this expression of the confidence 
of the Board if they insisted on his retaining the office of Chancellor. 

The Secretary announced that, by joint resolution of the Senate and 
House of Eepresentatives, Hon. Eichard Eush, of Pennsylvania, and 
Gen. Joseph Gr. Totten, of the city of Washington, had been re-elected 
Eegents for six years ; also that the President of the Senate had re- 
appointed Hon. James A. Pearce and Hon. James M. Mason, Eegents 
for the same period of time. 

The Secretary announced to the Board that, since its last meeting, 
three distinguished men of science, correspondents of the Institution, 
had deceased, namely : Prof. J. W. Bailey, Dr. E. K. Kane, and 
Mr. W. C. Eedfield. 

On this announcement Prof. Bache offered a series of appropriate 
remarks, referring to their eminent services in the promotion of 
science. 

Gen. Totten offered the following resolutions, which were adopted : 

Resolved^ That the Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution have 
heard with regret the announcement of the death of Prof, Jacob W. 
Bailey, whose communications to the Smithsonian Contributions have 



74 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 

attracted the notice and won the approval of naturalists throughout 
the world. 

Besolved, That the Regents offer to the family of Prof. Bailey their 
condolence on the loss which they have sustained. 

Mr. Douglas offered the following resolutions, which were adopted : 

Besolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, in 
common with the whole country, have heard with deep regret of the 
death of one of their esteemed collaborators. Dr. E. K. Kane, to whom 
was committed by this Institution a set of philosophical instruments 
for the purpose of research in the polar regions, which he used, and 
carefully returned at the hazard of his life, with a series of obser- 
vations of great value to science. 

Resolved, That the Regents offer to the family of Dr. Kane their 
condolence on the loss which they have sustained. 

Prof. Bache offered the following resolution, which was adopted : 

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have 
heard with regret of the decease of their valued correspondent, William 
C. Redfield, of New York, whose labors in meteorology have ren- 
dered his name familiar to men of science in every part of the civilized 
world, and offer to his family their condolence on the loss which 
they have sustained. 

A communication from Dr. Robert Hare was read, relative to the 
practical construction of minute weights and measures. 

On motion of Dr. Magruder, the following resolutions were adopted: 

Resolved, That a copy of the communication of Dr. Hare be trans- 
mitted to the Secretary of the Treasury, with the recommendation of 
the Board of Regents that the instrument offered by Dr. Hare be 
received by the government, and placed in the Office of Weights and 
Measures. 

^ Resolved, That the communication of Dr. Hare be inserted in the 
appendix to the report of the Regents to Congress. 

A communication from J. A. Johnson, esq., of Maryland, relative 
to an "International Geographic and Scientific Commission" was 
read and referred to the Executive Committee and the Secretary. 

The Secretary made a communication to the Board, relative to an 
article which had been published by Prof. S. F. B. Morse, containing 
charges against his moral character and his scientific reputation. 

The Chancellor made a few remarks, confirming Prof. Henry's 
statement as to the advice he had given him respecting this attack. 

On motion of Mr. Mason, the following resolution was adopted : 

Resolved, That the communication of the Secretary and accompany- 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 75 

ing documents be referred to a committee, to examine and report upon 
it at the next session of the Board of Regents. 

Whereupon the Chancellor appointed Messrs. Mason, Pearce, Felton, 
and Douglas as the committee. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



Washington, January 20, 1858. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their 
annual meeting on the third Wednesday of January of each year, the 
Board met this day in the Regents' room. 

No quorum being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Thurs- 
day, January 28, 1858. 

THURSDAY, January 28, 1858. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 10 a. m., 
in the Smithsonian Institution. 

Present : Hon. John C. Breckinridge, Vice President of the United 
States, Hon. J. M. Mason^ Hon. S. A. Douglas, Hon. George E. 
Badger^ Prof, A. D. Bache, Prof. C. C. Felton^ Mr. Seaton, Treasurer, 
and the Secretary. 

In the absence of the Chancellor the Vice President was called to 
the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary stated that, since the last meeting of the Board, the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives had appointed Hon. William 
H. English, of Indiana, Hon. Benjamin Stanton, of Ohio, and Hon. 
L.J. Gartrell, of Georgia, as Regents for the term of their service as 
members of the House. 

The Treasurer presented a statement of the receipts and expendi- 
tures during the year 1857^ and also a general statement of the funds; 
which were referred to the Executive Committee. 

The following communication was presented : 

Washington, January 23, 1858. 
Gentlemen : The undersigned offers for sale, and respectfully sug- 
gests to your honorable Board the propriety of purchasing, the gallery 

of Indian portraits now, and for some years past, in the Smithsonian 
Institution. 



76 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

He proposes to sell the whole collection described in the catalogue 
published by the Institution, one hundred and fifty-two in number ? 
for the sum of twelve thousand dollars — one-third of the same cash 
and the remainder at'two equal annual instalments ; or, if it should 
be preferred, one-fourth down and the residue in three equal annual 
instalments. 

The undersigned commenced his labors in this work in 1842, and 
devoted the best years of his life in travelling through the region of 
our country peopled principally by the red man — through the wilds 
of Oregon and what is now Washington Territory. All of the por- 
traits are accurate likenesses of prominent chiefs and braves, and 
readily recognized by men who have had intercourse with the various 
tribes of Indians. 

Since 1852 he has cherished the hope (but has not been able to 
realize it) that Congress would authorize the purchase of this collec- 
tion. He has J up to this time, made sacrifices — such as one believing 
in the merit of his own work, and whose zeal in persevering through 
arduous and unremitting toil to accomplish it, alone would make — to 
keep this collection together. He will not affect the modesty of 
refraining from expressing his belief that no other gallery (aside from 
what artistic merit the public may award it) possesses the interest, 
in a national point of view, that this does. Some of the chiefs repre- 
sented are no longer living ; and_, to the little we know of their history 
it will be some satisfaction to add the perpetuation of their features. 
These were taken from life and in the character they themselves pre- 
ferred to be handed down to the gaze of future generations. 

The price at which he offers this collection will not more than cover 
the outlay in cost of material, transportation, insurance, travelling 
expenses, &c., and will not afford him any compensation for his time 
and labor. Taking, as he humbly conceives, the intrinsic .value of 
these Indian portraits into consideration, he will receive no pecuniary 
profit by their disposal on the terms named. 

His ardent desire that they should be preserved, as a national work, 
in some place at the capital of our country ; his failure heretofore to 
induce Congress to agree to their purchase, and the more pressing 
reasons of liabilities now maturing, impel him to make this proposi- 
tion. Your honorable Board are again requested to consider it and 
communicate your answer at as early a day as is convenient. If the 
purchase of the portraits is not authorized by you, he will be com- 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 77 

pelled to expose them at public auction in time to liave tlie proceeds 
available by the Ist of May next. 

The undersigned will take this occasion to tender his acknowledg- 
ments to the Board and Professor Henry for the use of the hall in the 
Institution where the gallery now is, and for other courtesies, which 
he will always appreciate. 

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

J. M. STANLEY. 

The Hon. Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

On motion, this communication was referred to a special committee, 
and Messrs. Felton, Douglas, and Badger were appointed. 

The Secretary laid before the Board a present from Miss Contaxaki, 
of Greece, consisting of a volume of drawings, &c., illustrating the 
celebrated works of art in her own land, together with the following 
letters : 

Washington, November 23, 1857. 

Sir : During my last trip to the east I was charged by Miss Eliza- 
beth B. Contaxaki, a native of the isle of Crete, with an '' ornamental 
album," which she desired me to present, through you, to the Smith- 
sonian Institution. In forming the work, this lady designed it as a 
contribution to the Universal Exhibition at Paris, in 1855, worthy of 
the classic renown of the ancient city of Athens. So ardent is her 
admiration of the United States and its institutions that she wishes 
it to be permanently placed in this country, and having a high appre- 
ciation of you as an American statesman, and your reputation as a 
classical scholar, she desired that I would request you to offer it in 
her name to the Smithsonian Institution. 

The " Classical Bouquet/' as it is entitled, consists of illustrations 
of the principal monuments and places in the kingdom of Greece, to 
which are added a few from her native isle of Crete, not yet emanci- 
pated from the Moslem yoke. These illustrations are explained by 
quotations from the ancient Greek authors in the original language, 
beautifully illuminated ; whilst many of the pages are adorned with 
flowers culled from the spots which the drawings represent. 

Miss Contaxaki is the sole originator and authoress of it, assisted 
in its execution by native artists of Greece. The beauty of the finish, 
and the faithfulness and accuracy of the quotations from Hesiod, 
Homer, Xenophon, Plato, and others, show that the present sons and 



78 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 

daughters of the renowned ancient city of Minerva are not insensible 
of the glory that was once attached to her name, nor incapable of 
appreciating those monuments of art, science, and literature which 
still survive. 

Feeling assured that^ as an eminent classical scholar, you will fully 
appreciate the worth of the Classical Bouquet, I beg to present it, 
through you, to the Smithsonian Institution, in her name. 

With sentiments of the highest respect, I remain your obedient 

servant, 

CHAS. S. SPENCE. 
Hon. Lewis Cass, 

Secretary of State. 

Washington City, November 25, 1857, 
Sir: I send you herewith a splendid album, together with a letter 
from Mr. Spence, explanatory of the circumstances of its execution 
and transmission to this country. I perform the duty of presenting it 
to the Smithsonian Institution with great pleasure, for it is a finished 
specimen of taste and art, worthy of a prominent place in your inter- 
esting collection. Mr. Spence has so well described it that any 
further reference to it on my part is unnecessary. 

I am, dear sir, respectfully yours, 

LEWIS CASS. 
Prof. Henry, 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington City. 

On motion, the work was referred to Professor Felton, to report a 
resolution expressive of the high appreciation of the gift on the part 
of the Board, and a letter of acknowledgment to M iss Contaxaki. 

A letter was read from Sir George Simpson, expressing the desire 
and intention of the agents of the Hudson's Bay Company to co- 
operate with the Smithsonian Institution in procuring sj)ecimens of 
natural history, and in the prosecution of scientific researches. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, 30th instant, at 11 
o'clock, a. m. 

SATUPvDAY, January 30, 1858. 

The Board of Regents met this day in the hall of the Institution 
at 11 o'clock a. m. 

Present : Hon. J. C. Breckinridge, Vice President of the United 
States, Hon. J. A. Pearce, Hon. J. M. Mason, Hon. S. A. Douglas, 
Hon. W. H. English, Professor A. D. Bache, Professor C. C. Felton, 
Mr. Seaton, Treasurer, and the Secretary. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 79 

The Vice President took the chair. 

The minutes were then read and approved. 

The minutes of the last meeting of the "Establishment" were read 
for information, according to the by-laws of that body. 

The Secretary stated to the Board the action of Congress at its last 
session relative to the construction of cases in the Smithsonian 
building for the gov^ernment collections, and also the decision of the 
Attorney General respecting the law. 

The Secretary then presented the annual report of the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Institution during the year 1857 ; 
which was read. 

The Board then visited the rooms of the building, the collections, 
&c., and adjourned. 

Washington, April 10, 1858. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 11 o'clock a. m. 

Present: Hon. J. M. Mason, Hon. S. A. Douglas, Hon. George E. 
Badger, Hon. Benj. Stanton, Hon. L. *J. Gartrell. 

Mr. Mason was called to the chair. 

The minutes were read and approved. 

The report of the Building Committee for the year 1857 was read 
and accepted. 

The report of the Executive Committee was presented, together 
with the estimates for the year 1858. 

Communications relative to the care of the government collections, 
the Wynn estate, the publications, investigations^ and other opera- 
tions of the Institution, were read. 

On motion of Mr. Badger, the Secretary was directed to have the 
windows and other parts of the east wing of the building put in good 
order. 

The following report from Professor Felton was x)resented : 

REPORT on the PRESENT OF MISS CONTAXAKI. 

The Secretary laid before the Board a volume received from Greece, 
and sent as a gift to the Smithsonian Institution, together with the 
letter of the Hon. Mr. Spence, late United States minister to Con- 
stantinople, to the Secretary of State, and the letter of the Hon. Lewis 
Cass, the Secretary of State, to Professor Henry, the Secretary of the 
Institution. The volume and the correspondence were referred to 
Professor Felton. 

The volume was transmitted from Athens, Greece, through Mr. 



80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

Spence. It was designed and executed by a Greek lady of rare liter- 
ary accomplisliments, Miss Elizabeth B. Contaxaki, assisted by six 
Greek gentlemen, resident in Athens. It contains sketches of the 
principal ruins in that city, and views of the most famous historical 
places there and in other parts of Greece, correctly drawn and deli- 
cately colored, together with the passage, from the classic authors, 
in which the objects and places are described or referred to, transla- 
tions of the passages, and extracts from English and French writers 
on the same subjects. The book is adorned with exquisitely drawn 
vignettes, and emblematic devices, and with specimens of the wild 
flowers which grow in the places described, carefully preserved, 
pressed, and attached to the leaves. The volume is bound in blue 
velvet, and tastefully decorated with silver. It is put in an elegantly 
and richly carved case, made of olive wood, from the olive groves near 
Athens, where stood, in ancient times, the academic groves of Plato's 
school. The body of the case is made of the trunk of the tree, and 
the ornamental portions, of the root, which is of darker and richer 
color. This beautiful gift, t*herefore, combines a great variety of 
objects, possessing, from their associations with the loftiest achieve- 
ments of Hellenic genius, a deep and singular interest, and forming 
a most appropriate memorial of the country from which European 
art, education, philosophy, and letters took their rise. 

Miss Contaxaki, the tasteful designer of this memorial_, is a native 
of the island of Crete. At the time of the outbreak of the Greek 
revolution, her father was a landed proprietor there, and, in common 
with the great body of the Hellenic race, lost most of his property by 
the rapacity and tyranny of the Turks. His family was dispersed, 
and his daughter Elizabeth became an inmate in the family of the 
Eev. Dr. John H. Hill, the American missionary, who established 
himself in Athens, at the close of the war, for the benevolent and 
enlightened purpose of aiding the Greeks to reconstruct the shattered 
edifice of civilization, by establishing the school, which still continues 
to dispense the blessings of education among the children of its first 
pupils in that illustrious capital. Kesiding with Dr. Hill for many 
years, and educated chiefly under his superintendence and care, Eliza- 
beth became known to many American travellers in the East, by 
whom she has often been mentioned with a cordial appreciation of her 
accomplishments and merits. Their personal relations have naturally 
inspired her with a warm interest in the United States, heightened 
by the sympathies of the citizens of America in the regeneration of 
her country, and the substantial aid furnished by them to Greece in 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 81 

the hour of her utmost need. Kecently Miss Contaxaki, after a visit 
to Constantinople, where she was received with distinction, has re- 
turned to her native island, which is under the government of the 
Pacha of Egypt, and, hy her learning and ability, has succeeded in 
recovering, through the Moslem tribunal, a portion of her paternal 
estate. 

The volume now presented to the Smithsonian Institution was sent 
to the great Paris Exhibition of 1855, where it excited much admira- 
tion, and gained a diploma fur its accomplished author. She has 
now transmitted it for permanent deposit among the treasures of the 
Smithsonian Institution in the United States. 

The Regents of the Institution accept the gift with great pleasure, 
not only on account of its rare beauty, its intrinsic value, and the 
many interesting associations it suggests with that famous city, 
called by Milton "the eye of Greece, mother of art and arms," but 
also as an expressive symbol of the hearty good will for the American 
republic, cherished by the enlightened spirit of a nation which has so 
honorably vindicated its right to the glories of an illustrious descent 
by re-establishing the institutions of freedom and learning on the soil 
where, in ancient times, they earliest flourished, and with unex- 
ampled splendor. 

The committee recommends the adoption of the following resolu- 
tions by the Board : 

Resolved, That the regents of the Smithsonian Institution ac- 
cept, with gratitude, the splendid memorial volume presented by Miss 
Elizabeth B. Contaxaki, and that they recognize, in the beauty, taste, 
and art displayed in its general execution and style of its embellish- 
ment, a pleasing indication that the genius which placed the ancient 
Greeks at the head of the civilization of the world still survives in 
their descendants. 

Resolved^ That a copy of the above report, and of these resolutions, be 
transmitted, with a letter of acknowledgment from the Smithsonian 
Institution, to Miss Contaxaki, the accomplished donor. 

On motion, the report was accepted and the resolutions adopted. 

The Board then adjourned. 

WEDNESDAY, Mat 19, 1858. 

The Board met this day in the Vice President's room. United States 
Capitol, at 9^ o'clock. 

Present : The Chancellor, Hon. Roger B. Taney, Hon. John C. 
Breckinridge, Vice President of the United States, Hon. J. M. Mason, 
6s 



82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 

Hon. J. A. Pearce, Hon. S. A. Douglas, Hon. W. H. English, Hon. 
Benjamin Stanton, Prof. A. D. Bache, and the Secretary. 

The minutes were read and approved. 

Mr. Pearce explained the report of the Executive Committee and the 
estimates for the year 1858, and, on motion, they were adopted. 

The following report was presented from Prof. Felton, of the com- 
mittee to whom was referred the communication of Mr. J. M. Stanley: 

REPORT ON THE PROPOSITION TO PURCHASE THE INDIAN GALLERY. 

N. 

The Secretary laid before the Board a letter from Mr. J. M. Stanley, 
painter of the gallery of Indian jjortraits, now on deposit with the 
Smithsonian Institution, proposing to sell them to the Institution for 
the sum of twelve thousand dollars. 

The committee appointed to consider and report upon the subject 
respectfully represent that, while they are fully sensible of the great 
historical and ethnological value of this collection of portraits, and 
of their characteristic excellence, they are yet of opinion that it 
would be inexpedient to withdraw the sum mentioned from the funds 
necessary to carry on the scheme of active operations, which has been 
so ably inaugurated and, thus far, so successfully executed. The 
income of the Smithsonian fund should not be scattered among differ- 
ent and disconnected objects, and the sum necessary for the purchase 
of the gallery cannot be spared, without crippling for a time, at least, 
the regular operations of the Institution. 

Among the Contributions to Knowledge several important works 
relating to the aboriginal inhabitants of America have been published 
by the Institution and circulated over the civilized world. 

Grammars and dictionaries of the Indian languages may be men- 
tioned as of special interest, and of great value to the science of com- 
parative philology. Their language will probably pass away, and 
the races speaking them disappear; but the works to which we allude 
will preserve, ibr future investigators of the science of philology, 
the characteristic form in which their thoughts were expressed^ and 
will have an important bearing, not only on general ethnological 
inquiries, but on the j)hilosophy of the human mind. These volumes 
have been eagerly sought and studied by the most eminent compara- 
tive philologists of Europe, and have, by universal consent^ contri- 
buted materially to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men in that department of science. 

But though your committee are of opinion that the purchase of this 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 83 

gallery would interfere with the present plan of operations, and that 
it would not so directly tend to the increase and diffusion of know- 
ledge, they would earnestly express the opinion that, in a national 
point of view, the value of these portraits can hardly be over- 
estimated. 

They represent forty-three different tribes, and are taken from the 
leading personages in them. The artist has studied carefully the 
peculiarities of the tribes, the characteristic expressions of the in- 
dividuals, their natural attitudes and actions, their several styles of 
costume and ornament, and has reproduced, with artistic skill, all these 
particulars. To this interesting enterprise he has given ten of the 
best years of his life, having traversed, with great labor and incon- 
venience, the principal regions inhabited by the subjects of his pencil. 
The number of portraits, including that of the artist, enumerated in 
the catalogue, is one hundred and fifty-two. The price for which 
they are offered is much below their real value, being less than $80 
a piece. At the proposed rate the artist will receive no compensation 
for his time and labor, and barely enough to defray the cost of material, 
transportation, travelling expenses and insurance. 

The number of the tribes represented so faithfully in this gallery, 
and the prominence of the individuals, render the collection very 
complete and satisfactory, as presenting a general view of the charac- 
teristic features of the red man. These circumstances make it important 
that the gallery should be preserved entire. Its peculiar value con- 
sists in its comprehensive character no less than in the fidelity of the 
individual details. Centuries hence, when most all of the tribes here 
represented shall have disappeared, as the New England tribes, for 
example, have nearly disappeared, this gallery will be an object of 
.the profoundest interest to the student of man, the historian, the 
philosopher, and the statesman. 

The relations between the government o* the United States and the 
Indian tribes form one of the most delicate and important subjects of 
national legislation. The government has not only endeavored to 
deal with the red men in a liberal and paternal spirit, but has done 
much towards illustrating their character and condition by the pub- 
lication of costly works embodying the observations and researches of 
investigators who have devoted themselves to Indian studies. It 
appears to your committee that to purchase this collection, and to 
place it in some secure situation easy of access to visitors at the 
capital, would be an act worthy of the enlightened liberality of Con- 



84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS, 

gress. The cost would be insignificant, and the value of the collection 
would increase in all future time. No place is so suitable for its 
permanent deposit as the city of Washington, and no guardianship so 
appropriate as that of the government of the United States. 

Your committee recommend to the Board that the subject of the 
purchase of Mr. Stanley's Indian gallery be brought respectfully to 
the attention of Congress, as a measure eminently deserving a favor- 
able consideration in its bearings upon the history of the aboriginal 
tribes of America, and as a monument of deep and lasting interest to 
the people of the United States. 

The report was accepted, and laid on the table for the present. 

The Secretary stated that Mr. Putnam having resigned the agency 
of the Smithsonian publications in New York,[Messrs. D. Appleton & 
Co. had been appointed his successors. 

The Secretary announced that since the last meeting of the Board 
the death of Dr. Egbert Hare, of Philadelphia, had occurred, who 
was one of the principal benefactors of the Institution, and its first 
honorary member. 

Professor Bache gave an account of the life, character, and scientific 
researches of Dr. Hare, and ofi'ered the following resolutions : 

Besolvcd, That the Kegents of the Smithsonian Institution have 
learned with deep regret the decease of one of the earliest and most 
venerated honorary members of the establishment, Kobert Hare, M.D., 
of Philadelphia, late professor of chemistry in the University of 
Pennsylvania. 

liekolved, That the activity and power of mind of Dr. Hare, shown 
through a long and successful career of physical research, the great 
fertility of invention, the happy adaptations to matters of practical 
life, and the successful grappling with questions of high theory in 
physical science, have placed him among the first in his country of 
the great contributors to knowledge, clarum et venerahile nom.en. 

Befclved, That while we deplore the loss of this great and good 
man, who has done so much to keep alive the flame of science in our 
country in past days, we especially mourn the generous patron of our 
Institution, the sympathizing friend of the youth of some of us, and 
the warm-hearted colleague of our manhood. 

Jiesolved, That we ofi'er to the bereaved family of Dr. Hare our 
sincere condolence in the loss which they have sustained by his death. 

The resolutions were adopted. 

The report of the Secretary for 1857 was then accepted. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 85 

Professor Felton, in behalf of the special committee to whom the 
following communication of Professor Henry of March 16, 1857, 
together with accompanying documents, &c., were referred, presentej^ 
a report. 

COM.MUNICATION FROM PROF. HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION, RELATIVE TO A PUBLICATION BY PROF. MORSE. 

Gentlemen : In the discharge of the important and responsible 
duties which devolve upon me as Secretary ot the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, I have found myself exposed, like other men in public positions, 
to unprovoked attack and injurious misrepresentation. Many instances 
of this, it may be remembered, occurred about two years ago, during 
the discussions relative to the organic policy of the Institution ; but, 
though very unjust, they were suffered to pass unnoticed, and gene- 
rally made, I presume, no lasting impression on the public mind. 

During the same controversy, however, there was one attack made 
upon me of such a nature, so elaborately prepared and widely circu- 
lated, by my opponents, that, though I have not yet publicly noticed 
H, 1 have from the first thought it my duty not to allow it to go un- 
answered. I allu<le to an article in a periodical entitled " Shatfner's 
Telegraph Companion," from the pen of Prof. S. F. B. Morse, the 
celebrated inventor of the American electro-magnetic telegraph. In 
this, not my scientific reputation merely, but my moral character was 
pointedly assailed ; indeed, nothing less was attempted than to prove 
that in the testimony which I had given in a case where I was at 
most but a reluctant witness, I had consciously and wilfully deviated 
from the truth, and this, too, from unworthy and dishonorable 
motives. 

Such a charge, coming from such a quarter, appeared to me then, as 
it appears now, of too grave a character and too serious a consequence 
to be withheld from the notice of the Board of Regents. I, therefore, 
presented the matter unofficially to the Chancellor of the Institution, 
Chief Justice Taney, and was advised by him to allow the matter to 
rest until the then existing excitement with respect to the organiza- 
tion of the Institution should subside, and that in the meantime the 
materials for a refutation of the charge might be collected and pre- 
pared, to be brought forw^ard at the proper time_, if I should think it 
necessary. 

The article of Mr. Morse was published in 1855, but at the session 
of the Board in 1856 I was not prepared to present the case properly 



86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 

to your consideration, and I now (1857) embrace the first opportunity 
of bringing the subject officially to your notice, and asking from you 
an investigation into the justice of the charges alleged against me. 
And this I do most earnestly, with the desire that when we shall all 
have passed from this stage of being, no imputation of having at- 
tempted to evadein silence so grave a charge shall rest on me, nor on you, 
of having continued to devolve upon me duties of the highest respon- 
sibility, after that was known to some of you individually, which, if 
true, should render me entirely unworthy of your confidence. Duty 
to the Board of Regents, as well as regard to my own memory, to my 
family, and to the truth of history, demands that I should lay thi^ 
matter before you, and place in your hands the documents necessary 
to establish the veracity of my testimony, so falsely impeached, and 
the integrity of my motives, so wantonly assailed. 

My life, as is known to you, has been principally devoted to science, 
and my investigations in different branches of physics have given me 
some reputation in the line of original discovery. I have sought, 
however, no patent for inventions, and solicited no remuneration for 
my labors, but have freely given their results to the world, expecting 
only, in return, to enjoy the consciousness of having added^ by my in- 
yCstigations, to the sum of human knowledge^ and to receive the 
credit to which they might justly entitle me. 

I commenced my scientific career about the year 1828, with a series 
of experiments in electricity, which were continued at intervals up to 
the period of my being honored by election to the office of Secretary 
of this Institution. The object of my researches was the advancement 
of science, without any special or immediate reference to its applica- 
tion to the wants of life or useful purposes in the arts. It is true, nev- 
ertheless, that some of my earlier investigations had an important 
bearing on the electro-magnetic telegraph, and brought the science to 
that point of development at which it was immediately applicable to 
Mr. Morse's particular invention. 

In 1831 I published a brief account of these researches, in which I 
drew attention to the fact of their applicability to the telegraph ; and 
in 1832, and subsequently, exhibited experiments illustrative of the 
application of the electro-magnet to the transmission of power to a 
distance, for producing telegraphic and other effects. The results I 
had published were communicated to Mr. Morse, by his scientific 
assistant. Dr. Gale, as will be shown on the evidence of the latter ; 
and the facts which I had discovered were promptly applied in render- 
ing effective the operation of his machine. 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 87 

In the latter part of 1837 I became personally acquainted with Mr. 
Morse, and at that time, and afterwards, freely gave him information 
in regard to the scientific principles which had been the subject of my 
investigations. After his return from Europe, in 1839, our intercourse 
was renewed, and continued uninterrupted till 1845. In that year, 
Mr. Vail, a partner and assistant of Mr. Morse, published a work pur- 
porting to be a history of the Telegraph, in which I conceived manifest 
injustice was done me. I complained of this to a mutual friend, and 
subsequently received an assurance from Mr. Morse that if another 
edition were published, all just ground of complaint should be removed. 
A new emission of the work, however, shortly afterwards appeared, 
without change in this respect, or further reference to my labors. Still 
I made no public complaint, and set up no claims on account of the 
telegraph. I was content that my published researches should remain 
as material for the history of science, and be pronounced upon, accord- 
ing to their true value, by the scientific world. 

After this, a series of controversies and lawsuits having arisen be- 
tween rival claimants for telegraphic patents, I was repeatedly ap- 
pealed to, to act as expert and witness in such cases. This I uniformly 
declined to do, not wishing to be in any manner involved in these lit- 
igations, but was finally compelled, under legal process, to return 
to Boston from Maine, whither I had gone on a visit, and to give evi- 
dence on the subject. My testimony was given with the statement that 
I was not a willing witness, and that I labored under the disadvantage 
of not having access to my notes and papers, which were in Washing- 
ton. That testimony, however, I now reaffirm to be true in every 
essential particular. It was unimpeached before the court, and exer- 
cised an influence on the final decision of the question at issue. 

I was called upon on that occasion to state, not only what I had pub- 
lished, bat what I had done, and what I had shown to others in regard 
to the telegraph. It was my wish, in every statement, to render Mr. 
Morse full and scrupulous justice. While I was constrained, there- 
fore, to state that he had made no discoveries in science, I distinctly 
declared that he was entitled to the merit of .combining and applying 
the discoveries of others, in the invention of the best practical form of 
the magnetic telegraph. My testimony tended to establish the fact 
that, though not entitled to the exclusive use of the electro-magnet for 
telegraphic purposes, he was entitled to his particular machine, register, 
alphabet, &c. As this, however, did not meet the full requirements of 
Mr. Morse's comprehensive claim, I could not but be aware that, while 



88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

aimiug to depose nothing but truth and the whole truth, and while so 
doing being obliged to speak of my own discoveries, and to allude to the 
omissions in Mr. Vail's book, I might expose myself to the possible, 
and, as it has proved, the actual, danger of having my motives mis- 
construed and my testimony misrepresented. But I can truly aver, in 
accordance w ith the statement of the counsel, Mr. Chase, (now governor 
of Ohio,) that I had no desire to arrogate to myself undue merit, or to 
detract from the just claims of Mr. Morse. 

I have the honor to be your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENEY. 
To THE Board of Regents. 

The Chancellor, Chief Justice Taney, corroborated Prof. Henry's 
statement as to his advising a delay in noticing the publication re- 
ferred to until the public mind should be more settled in regard to 
the policy of the Institution, and the discussions which had arisen in 
Congress in reference to it should be ended. 

He stated that it would be seen by the report of the decision of the 
Supreme Court, in the case in which Professor Henry was a witness, 
that, in the opinion of the court. Professor Morse had produced no 
testimony that could invalidate the testimony of Professor Henry, or 
impair in any degree its weight, and gave full credit to it in the 
udgment it pronounced. 



REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS ON THE 

COMMUNICATION OF PROFESSOR HENRY. 

Professor Henry laid before the Board of Regents of the Smithso- 
nian Institution a communication relative to an article in Shaffner's 
Telegraph Companion, bearing the signature of Samuel F. B. Morse, 
the inventor of the American electro-magnetic telegraph. In this 
article serious charges are brought against Professor Henry, bearing 
upon his scientific reputation and his moral character. The whole 
matter having been referred to a committee of the Board, with in- 
structions to report on the same, the committee have attended to the 
duty assigned to them, and now submit the following brief report, with 
resolutions accompanying it. 

The committee have carefully examined the documents relating to 
the subject, and es2)eciaUy the article to which the communication of 
Professor Henry refers. This article occupies over ninety pages, filling 
an entire number of Shaffner's Journal, and purports to be "a defence 



PROCEEDINGS OF 7 HE EEGENT3. 89 

against the injurious deductions drawn from the deposition of Professor 
Joseph Henry, (in the several telegraph suits,) with a critical review 
of said deposition, and an examination of Professor Henry's alleged 
discoveries bearing upon the electro-magnetic telegraph." 

The first thing which strikes the reader of this article is, that its 
title is a misnomer. It is simply an assault upon Professor Henry ; 
an attempt to disparage his character ; to deprive him of his honors 
as a scientific discoverer ; to impeach his credibility as a witness and 
his integrity as a man. It is a disingenuous piece of sophistical 
argument, such as an unscrupulous advocate might employ to pervert 
the truth, misrepresent the fiicts, and misinterpret the language in 
which the facts belonging to the other side of the case are stated. 

Mr. Morse charges that the deposition of Professor Henry *' con- 
tains imputations against his (Morse's) personal character," which 
it does not, and assumes it as a duty ''to expose the utter non- 
reliability of Professor Henry's testimony;" that testimony being 
supported by the most competent authorities, and by the history of 
scientific discovery. He asserts that he "is not indebted to him 
(Professor Henry) for any discovery in science bearing on the tele- 
graph," he having himself acknowledged such indebtedness in the 
most unequivocal manner, and the fact being independently substan- 
tiated by the testimony of Sears C. Walker, and the statement of 
Mr. Morse's own associate, Dr. Gale. Mr. Morse further maintains, 
that all discoveries bearing upon the telegraph were made, not by 
Professor Henry, but by others, and prior to any experiments of Pro- 
fessor Henry in the science of electro-magnetism ; contradicting in 
this proposition the facts in the history of scientific discovery perfectly 
established and recognized throughout the scientific world. 

The essence of the charges against Prof. Henry is, that he gave 
false testimony in his deposition in the telegraph cases, and that he 
has claimed the credit of discoveries in the sciences bearing upon the 
electro-magnetic telegraph which were made by previous investigators ; 
in other words, that he has falsely claimed what does not belong to 
him, but does belong to others. 

Professor Henry, as a private man, might safely have allowed such 
charges to pass in silence. But standing in the important position 
which he occupies, as the chief executive officer of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution ; and regarding the charges as undoubtedly containing an 
impeachment of his moral character, as well as of his scientific repu- 
tation ; and justly sensitive, not only for his own honor, but for the 
honor of the Institution, he has a right to ask this Board to consider 



90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

the subject, and to make their conclusions a matter of record, which 
may be appealed to hereafter should any question arise with regard to 
his conduct in the premises. 

Your committee do not conceive it to be necessary to follow Mr. 
Morse through all the details of his elaborate attack. Fortunately, a 
plain statement of a few leading facts will be sufficient to place 
the essential points of the case in a clear light. 

The deposition already referred to was reluctantly given, and under 
the compulsion of legal process, by Prof Henry, before the Hon. Geo. 
S. Hillard, United States commissioner, on the 7th of September, 1849. 

The following is the statement of the Hon. S. P. Chase, (now gov- 
ernor of Ohio,) one of the counsel in the telegraph cases, in a letter 
to Professor Henry, dated Columbus, Ohio, November 26, 1856 : 

In the year 1849, 1 was professionally employed in the defence of 
certain gentlemen engaged in the business of telegraphing between 
Louisville and New Orleans, against whom a bill of complaint had 
been filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of 
Kentucky. The object of the bill was to restrain the defendants, my 
clients, from the use in telegraphing of a certain instrument called 
the Columbian Telegraph, on the ground that it was an infringe- 
ment upon the rights of the complainants under the patents granted 
to Professor Morse. It therefore became my duty, in the preparation 
of their defence, to ascertain the precise nature and extent of their 
rights. With this view I called upon you, in August or September 
of that year, for your deposition. It was taken before George S. 
Hillard, esq., a United States commissioner for the district of Massa- 
chusetts, in Boston. I remember very well that you were unwilling to 
be involved in the controversy, even as a witness, and that you only 
submitted to be examined in compliance with the requirements of law. 
Not one of your statements was volunteered. They were all called out 
by questions propounded either verbally or in writing. I was not suf- 
ficiently familiar at the time with the precise merits of the case to 
know what would or would not be important, and therefore insisted on 
a full statement, not merely of the general history of electro-magnet- 
ism as applied to telegraphing, but of all your own discoveries in 
that science having relation to the same art, and of all that had passed 
between yourself and Professor Morse connected with these discoveries 
or with the telegraph. You could not have refused to respond to the 
questions propounded, without subjecting yourself to judicial animad- 
version and constraint. Nothing in what you testified, or your manner 
of testifying, suggested to me the idea that you were animated by any 
desire to arrogate undue merit to yourself, or to detract from the just 
claims of Prolessor Morse. 

S. P. CHASE. 

Previous to this deposition, Mr. Morse, as appears from his own 
letters and statements, entertained for Prof, Henry the warmest feel- 
ings of personal regard, and the highest esteem for his character as a 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 91 

scientific man. In a letter, dated April 24, 1839, he thanks Prof. 
Henry for a copy of his " valuable contributions," and says, " I per- 
ceive many things (in the contributions) of great interest to me in my 
telegraphic enterprise." Again, in the same letter, speaking of an 
intended visit to the Professor at Princeton, he says : "I should come 
as a learner, and could bring no ' contributions' to your stock of ex- 
periments of any value." And still further : " I think that you have 
pursued an original course of experiments, and discovered facts more 
immediately bearing upon my invention than any that have been 
published abroad." 

It appears, from Mr. l^Iorse's own statement, that he had at least 
two interviews with Prof. Henry — one in May, 1839, when he passed 
the afternoon and night with him, at Princeton ; and another in Feb- 
ruary, 1844 — both of them for the purpose of conferring with him on 
subjects relating to the telegraph, and evidently with the conviction, 
on Mr. Morse's part, that Prof. Henry's investigations were of great 
importance to the success of the telegraph. 

As late as 1846, after Mr. Morse had learned that some dissatisfac- 
tion existed in Prof. Henry's mind in regard to the manner in which 
his researches in electricity had been passed over by Mr. Vail, an 
assistant of Mr. Morse, and the author of a history of the American 
magnetic telegraph, Mr. Morse, in an interview with Prof. Henry, at 
Washington, said, according to his own account, " Well, Prof. Henry, 
I will take the earliest opportunity that is afforded me in anything I 
may publish to have justice don^ to your labors ; for I do not think 
that justice has been done you, either in Europe or this country." 

Again^ in 1848, when Prof. Walker, of the Coast Survey, made 
his report on the theory of Morse's electro-magnetic telegraph, in 
which the expression occurred, "the helix of a soft iron magnet, 
prepared after the manner first pointed out by Prof. Henry," Mr. 
Morse, to whom the report way submitted, said: "I have now the 
long wished for opportunity to do justice publicly to Henry's dis- 
covery bearing on the telegraph." And in a note prepared by him, 
and intended to be printed with Prof. Walker's report, he says : 
" The allusion you make to the helix of a soft iron magnet, prepared 
after the manner first pointed out by Prof. Henry, gives me an o])- 
portunity, of which I gladly avail myself, to say that I think that 
justice has not yet been done to Prof. Henry, either in Europe or in 
this country, for the discovery of a scientific fact, which, in its bear- 
ing on telegraphs, whether of the magnetic needle or electro-magnet 
order, is of the greatest importance." 



92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

He then proceeds to give a historical synopsis^ showing that, 
although suggestions had been made and plans devised by Soemmering, 
in 1811, and by Ampere, in 1820, yet that the experiments of Barlow, 
in 1824, had led that investigator to pronounce " the idea of an elec- 
tric telegraph to be chimerical" — an opinion that was, for the time, 
acquiesced in by scientific men. He shows that, in the interval be- 
tween 1824 and 1829, no further suggestions were made on the sub- 
ject of electric telegraphs. But he proceeds — '' In 1830, Prof. Henry, 
assisted by Dr. Ten Eyck, while engaged in experiments on the ap- 
plication of the principle of the galvanic multiplier to the development 
of great magnetic power in soft iron, made the important discovery 
that a battery of intensity overcame that resistance in a long wire 
which Barlow had announced as an insuperable bar to the construc- 
tion of electric telegraphs. Thus was opened the way for fresh efforts 
in devising a practicable electric telegraph ; and Baron Schilling, in 
1832, and Professors Gauss and Weber, in 1833, had ample oppor- 
tunity to learn of Henry's discovery, and avail themselves of it, before 
they constructed their needle telegraphs." And, while claiming for 
himself that he was'" the first to propose the use of the electro-magnet 
for telegraphic purposes, and the first to construct a telegraph on the 
basis of the electro-magnet," yet he adds, " ^o Professor Henry is 
unquestionably due the honor of the discovery of a principle which proves 
the practicability of exciting magnetism through a long coil, or at a dis- 
tance, either to deflect a needle or to magnetize soft iron." 

What Mr. Morse here describes as "a principle," the discovery of 

which is unquestionably due to Professor Henry, is the law which 

first made it possible to work the telegraphic machine invented by 

Mr. Morse, and for the knowledge of which Mr. Morse was indebted to 

Professor Henry, as is positively asserted by his associate, Dr. GtALE. 

This gentleman, in a letter, dated Washington, April 7, 1856, makes 
the following conclusive statement : 

Washington, D. C, April 7, 1856. 
Sir : In reply to your note of the 3d instant, respecting the Morse 
telegraph, asking me to state definitely the condition of the invention 
when I first saw the apparatus in the winter of 1836, I answer: This 
apparatus was Morse's original instrument, usually known as the type 
a})paratus, in which the types, set up in a composing stick, were run 
through a circuit breaker, and in which the battery was the cylinder 
battery, with a single pair of plates. This arrangement also had another 
peculiarity, namely, it was the electro-magnet used by Moll, and shown 
in drawings of the older works on that subject, having only a few 
turns of wire in the coil which surrounded the poles or arms of the 
magnet. The sparseness of the wires in the magnet coils and the use 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 93 

of the single cup battery were to me, on tlie first look at the instru- 
ment, obvious marks of defect, and I accordingly suggested to the 
Professor, without giving my reasons for so doing, that a battery of 
many pairs should be substituted ior that of a single pair, and that 
the coil on each arm of the masfnet should be increased to many hun- 
dred turns each ; which experiment, if I remember aright, was made 
on the same day with a battery and wire on hand, furnished I believe 
by myself, and it was found that while the original arrangement 
woukl only send the electric current through a few feec of wire, say 
15 to 40, the modified arrangement would send it through as many 
hundred. Although I gave no reasons at the time to Professor Morse 
for the suggestions I had proposed in modifying the arrangement of 
the machine, I did so afterwards, and referred in my explanations to 
the paper of Professor Henry, in the 19th volume of the American 
Journal of Science, ])age 400 and onward. It was to these sugges- 
tions of mine that Professor Morse alludes in his testimony before 
the circuit court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, in the trial 
of B. B. French and others vs. Rogers and others. — See piinted copy 
of Complainant's Evidence, page 1G8, beginning with the words 
"Early in 1836 I procured 40 feet of wire," &c., and page 169, where 
Professor Morse alludes to myself and compensation for services ren- 
dered to him, &G. 

At the time I gave the suggestions above named, Professor Morse 
was not familiar with the then existing state of the science ot electro- 
magnetism. Had he been so, or had he read and appreciated the 
paper of Henry, tlie suggestions made by me would naturally have 
occurred to his mind as they did to my own. But the principal part 
of Morse's great invention lay in the mechanical ada})tation of a power 
to produce motion, and to increase or relax at will. It was only 
necessary for him to know that such a power existed for him to adapt 
mechanism to direct and control it. 

My suggestions were made to Professor Morse from inferences 
drawn by reading Professor Henry's paper above alluded to. Profes- 
sor Morse professed great surprise at the contents of the paper when 
I showed it to him, but especially at the remarks on Dr. Barlow's re- 
sults respecting telegraphing, which were new to him, and he stated 
at the time that he was not aware that any one had even conceived 
the idea of using the magnet for such purposes. 

With sentiments of esteem, I remain yours truly, 

L. D. GALE. 

Prof. Jos. Henry, 

Sec/etary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

It further appears, that principally for the information thus commu- 
nicated Mr. Morse assigned to Dr. Gale an interest in the telegraph, 
which he afterwards purchased back for $15,000, as appears from the 
following letter of Dr. Gale : 

Patent Office, August 5, 1857. 

Dear Sir : In reply to yours of this date, respecting the interest I 
once possessed in Morse's telegraph patent, secured to me by the said 
Morse, as alluded to by him in his statement to the Commissioner of 



94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 

Patents, I would simply state that the part I owned when I entered 
the service of the government in this office was orginally given me hy 
the said Morse for services rendered him in making his invention 
practically effective in sending currents through long distances, &c., 
and that the said interest was retransferred to the said Morse for the 
sum of fifteen thousand dollars. 
Kespectfully, 

L. D. GALE. 
Professor Henry, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

It thus appears, both from Mr. Morse's own admission down to 
1848^ and from the testimony of others most familiar with the facts, 
that Professor Henry discovered the la,w, or " principle," as Mr. Morse 
designates it, which was necessary to make the practical working of 
the electro-magnetic telegraph at considerable distances possible; that 
Mr. Morse was first informed of this discovery by Dr. Gale ; that he 
availed himself of it at once, and that it never occurred to Mr. Morse 
to deny this fact until after 1848. He had steadily and fully acknow- 
ledged the merits and genius of Mr. Henry, as the discoverer of facts 
and laws in science of the highest importance to the success of his 
long-cherished invention of a magnetic telegraph, Mr. Henry was 
the discoverer of a principle, Mr. Morse was the inventor of a machine, 
the object of which was to record characters at a distance, to convey 
intelligence, in other words, to carry into execution the idea of an 
electric telegraph. But there were obstacles in tlie way which he 
could not overcome until he learned the discoveries of Professor Henry, 
and applied them to his machine. These facts are undeniable. They 
constitute a part of the history of science and invention. They were 
true in 1848, they were equally true in 1855, when Professor Morse's 
article was published. We give a passage here from the deposition 
of Sears C. Walker, in the case of French vs. Ptogers, Kespondent's 
Evidence, page 199, bearing upon this whole subject : 

"In consequence of some statements made by me in my official 
reports relative to the invention of the receiving magnet, a question 
arose between Mr. Morse and myself as to the origin of this invention. 
It was amicably discussed by Mr. Morse, Professor Henry, Dr. Gale, 
and myself, with Professor Henry's article, alluded to in answer to 
the second question before us. The result of the interview was con- 
clusive to my mind that Professor Henry was the sole discoverer of 
the law on which the intensity magnet depends for its power of send- 
ing the galvanic current through a long circuit. I was also led to 
conclude that Mr. Morse, in the course of his own researches and ex- 
periments before he had read Professor Henry's article, before alluded 
to, had encountered the same difficulty Mr. Barlow and those who 
preceded him had encountered, that is, the impossibility of forcing 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 95 

the galvanic current throiigli a long telegraph line. His own per- 
sonal researches had not overcome this obstacle. They were made in 
the laboratory of the New York University. I also learned at the 
same time, by the conversations above stated, that he only overcame 
this obstacle by constructing a magnet on tlie principle invented by Pro- 
fessor Henry, and described in his article in 8illiman's Journal. His 
attention was directed to it by Dr. Gale." 

What changed Mr. Morse's opinion of Professor Henry, not only 
as a scientific investigator, but as a man of integrity, after the admis- 
sions of his indebtedness to his researches, and the oft repeated ex- 
pressions of warm personal regard ? It appears that Mr. Morse was 
involved in a number of lawsuits, growing out of contested claims to 
the right of using electricity for telegraphic purposes. The circum- 
stances under which Professor Henry, as a well known investigator in 
this department of physics, was summoned by one of the parties to 
testify have already been stated. The testimony of Mr. Henry_, while 
supporting the claims of Mr. Morse as the inventor of an admirable 
invention, denied to him the additional merit of being a discoverer of 
new facts or laws of nature, and to this extent, perhaps, was consid- 
ered unfavorable to some part of the claim of Mr. Morse to an exclu- 
sive right to employ the electro-magnet for telegraphic purposes. 
Professor Henry's deposition consists of a series of answers to verbal, 
as well as written, interrogatories propounded to him, which were not 
limited to his published writings, or the subject of electricity, but ex- 
tended to investigations and discoveries in general having a bearing 
upon the electric telegraph. He gave his testimony at a distance 
from his notes and manuscripts, and it would not have been surprising 
if inaccuracies had occurred in some parts of his statement ; but all 
the material points in it are sustained by independent testimony, and 
that portion which relates directly to Mr. Morse agrees entirely with 
the statement of his own assistant. Dr. Gale. Had his deposition 
been objectionable, it ought to have been impeached before the Court ; 
but this was not attempted ; and the following tribute to Professor 
Henry by the judge, in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court 
of the United States, indicates the impression made upon the Court 
itself by all the testimony in the case : " It is due to him to say that 
no one has contributed more to enlarge the knowledge of electro- 
magnetism, and to lay the foundations of the great invention of which 
we are speaking, than the Professor himself." 

Professor Henry's answers to the first and second interrogatories 
present a condensed history of the progress of the science of electro- 
magnetism, as connected with telegraphic communication, embracing 



96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

an account of the discoveries of Oersted, Arago, Davy, Ampere; of 
the investigations hy Barlow and Sturgeon ; of his own researches, 
commenced in 1828, and continued in 1829, 1830, and subsequently. 
The details of his experiments and their results, though brief, are 
very precise. There is abundant evidence to show that Professor 
Henry's experiments and illustrations at Albany, and subsequently 
at Princeton, proved, and were declared at the time by him to prove, 
that the electric telegraph was now practicable ; that the electro- 
magnet might be used to produce mechanical effects at a distance 
adequate to making signals of various kinds, such as ringing bells, 
which he practically illustrated. In proof of this, we quote a letter 
to Professor Henry, from Professor James Hall, of Albany, late 
president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science: 

January 19, 1856. 

Dear Sir: While a student of the Rensselaer School, in Troy, 
New York, in August, 1832, I visited Albany with a friend, having 
a letter of introduction to you from Professor Eaton. Our principal 
object was to see your electro-magnetic apparatus, of which we had 
heard much, and at the same time the library and collections of the 
Albany Institute. 

You showed us your laboratory in a lower story or basement of 
the buikling, and in a larger room in an upper story some electric 
and galvanic apparatus, with various philosophical instruments. In 
this room, and extending around the same, was a circuit of wire 
stretched along the wall, and at one termination of this, in the recesi.'. 
of a window, a bell was fixed, while the other extremity was con- 
nected with a galvanic apj)aratus. 

You showed us the manner in which the bell could be made to ring 
by a current of electricity, transmitted through this wire, and you 
remarked that this method might be adopted for giving signals, by 
the ringing of a bell at the distance of many miles from the point of 
its connexion with the galvanic apparatus. 

All the circumstances attending this visit to Albany are fresh in ray 
recollection, and during the past years, while so much has been said 
respecting the invention of electric telegraphs, I have olten had occa- 
sion to mention the exhibition of your electric telegraph in the Albany 
Academy, in 1832. 

If at any time or under any circumstances this statement can be of 
service to you in substantiating your claim to such a discovery at the 
period named, you are at liberty to use it in any manner you jdease, 
and I shall be ready at all times to repeat and sustain what I have 
here stated, with many other attendant circumstances, should they 
prove of any importance. 

I remain very sincerely and respectfully yours, 

JAMES HALL. 

Professor Joseph Henry. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 97 

In his deposition, Prof. Henry's statements are witliin what he 
might fairly have claimed. But he is a man of science, looking for 
no other reward than the consciousness of having done something for 
its promotion, and the reputation which the successful prosecution of 
scientific investigations and discoveries may justly be expected to give. 
In his public lectures and published writings he has often pointed out 
incidentally the possibility of applying the facts and laws of nature 
discovered by him to practical purposes ; he has freely communicated 
information to those who have sought it from him, among whom has 
been Mr. Morse himself, as appears by his own acknowledgments. 
But he has never applied his scientific discoveries to practical ends for 
his own pecuniary benefit. It was natural, therefore, that he should 
feel a repugnance to taking any part in the litigation between rival 
inventors, and it was inevitable that, when forced to give his testi- 
mony, he should distinctly point out what was so clear in his own 
mind and is so fundamental a fact in the history of human progress, 
the distinctive functions of the discoverer and the inventor who ap- 
plies discoveries to practical purposes in the business of life. 

Mr. Henry has always done full justice to the invention of Mr. 
Morse. While he could not sanction the claim of Mr. Morse to the 
exclusive use of the electro-magnet, he has given him full credit for 
the mechanical contrivances adapted to the application of his invention. 
In proof of this we refer to his deposition, and present also the following 
statement of Hon. Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents, taken 
from a letter addressed by him to Prof. Henry, dated March 31, 1856: 

U. S. Patent Office, 3Iarch 31, 1856. 

Sir: Agreeably to your request I now make the following state- 
ment: 

Some two years since, when an application was made for an exten- 
sion of Prof. Morse's patent, I was for some time in doubt as to the pro- 
priety of making that extension. Under these circumstances I con- 
sulted with several persons, and among others with yourself, with a 
view particularly to ascertain the amount of invention fairly due to 
Prof. Morse. 

The result of my inquiries was such as to induce me to grant the 
extension. I will further say that this was in accordance with your 
express recommendation, and that I was probably more influenced by 
this recommendation, and the information I obtained from you, than 
by any other circumstance, in coming to that conclusion. 
I am, sir, yours very respectfully, 

CHAKLES MASON. 

Prof. J. Henry. 

To sum up the results of the preceding investigation in a few words 

7s 



98 , PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 

We have shown that Mr. Morse himself has acknowledged the value 
of the discoveries of Prof. Henry to his electric telegraph; that his 
associate and scientific assistant, Dr. Grale, has distinctly affirmed that 
these discoveries were applied to his telegraph, and that previous to 
such application it was impossible for Mr. Morse to operate his instru- 
ment at a distance; that Prof. Henry's experiments were witnessed 
by Prof, Hall and others in 1832, and that these experiments showed 
the possibility of transmitting to a distance a force capable of pro- 
ducing mechanical effects adequate to making telegraphic signals ; 
that Mr. Henry's deposition of 1849, which evidently furnished the 
motive for Mr. Morse's attack upon him, is strictly correct in all the 
historical details, and that, so far as it relates to Mr. Henry's own 
claim as a discoverer, is within what he might have claimed with en- 
tire justice; that he gave the deposition reluctantly, and in no spirit 
of hostility to Mr. Morse ; that on that and other occasions he fully 
admitted the merit of Mr. Morse as an inventor ; and that Mr. Morse's 
patent was extended through the influence of the favorable opinion 
expressed by Professor Henry. 

Your committee come unhesitatingly to the conclusion that Mr. 
Morse has failed to substantiate any one ot the charges he has made 
against Prof. Plenry, although the burden of proof lay upon him ; and 
that all the evidence, including the unbiased admissions of Mr. Morse 
himself, is on the other side. Mr. Morse's charges not only remain 
unproved but they are positively disproved. 

Your committee recommend the adoption of the following resolu- 
tions : 

Resolved, That Professor Morse has not succeeded in refuting the 
statements of Professor Henry in the deposition given by the latter in 
1849; that he has not proved any one of the accusations against Prof. 
Henry made in the article in Shaffner's Telegraph Companion in 1855, 
and that he has not disproved any one of his own admissions in re- 
gard to Prof. Henry's discoveries in electro-magnetism, and their im- 
portance to his own invention of the electro-magnetic telegraph. 

Resolved, That there is nothing in Professor Morse's article that di- 
minishes, in the least, the confidence of this Board in the integrity of 
Prof. Henry, or in the value of those great discoveries which have 
placed his name among those of the most distinguished cultivators of 
science, and have done much to exalt the scientific reputation of the 
country. 

Resolved, That this report, with the resolutions, be recorded in the 
Proceedings of the Board of Kegents of the Institution. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE KE GENTS. 99 

The report was accepted and the resolutions were unanimously 
adopted. The Board then adjourned sine die. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPOFvT OF THE COMMITTEE. 



STATEMENT OF PROFESSOK HENRY IN RELATION TO THE HISTORY OF THE 
ELECTRO MAGNETIC TELEGRAPH. 

In the beginning of ray deposition I was requested to give a sketch 
of the history of electro-magnetism having a bearing on the telegraph, 
and the account I then gave from memory I have since critically 
examined and find it fully corroborated by reference to the original 
authorities. My sketch, which was the substance of what I had been 
in the habit of giving in my lectures, was necessarily very concise, and 
almost exclusively confined to one class of facts, namely, those having 
a direct bearing on Mr. Morse's invention, and my paper in Silliman's 
Journal was likewise very brief and intended merely for scientific 
men. In order, therefore, to set forth more clearly in what my own 
improvements consisted it may be proper to give a few additional 
particulars respecting some points in the progress of discovery, illus- 
trated by wood cuts. 

There are several forms of the electrical telegraph : first, that in 
which frictional electricity has been proposed to j)roduce sparks and 
■ motion of pith balls at a distance. 

Second, that in which galvanism has been employed to produce 
; signals by means of bubbles of gas from the decomposition of water. 

Third, that in which electro-magnetism is the motive power to 
produce motion at a distance; and again, of the latter there are two 
i kinds of telegraph, those in which the intelligence is indicated by the 
motion of a magnetic needle, and those in which sounds and per- 
manent signs are made by the attraction of an electro-magnet. The' 
latter is the class to which Mr. Morse's invention belongs. The fol- 
lowing is a brief exposition of the several steps which led to this- form 
of the telegraph. 

The first essential fact, as I stated in my testimony, which ren- 
dered the electro-magnetic telegraph possible was discovered by 
Oersted, in the winter of 1819-'20. It is illustrated by figure 1, in: 
which the magnetic ^'s- 1. 

needle is deflected by ^ 

the action of a cur- 
rent of galvanism 
transmitted through 

the wire A B. (See Annals of Philosophy, vol. 16, page 273.) 



A *■ 




100 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS, 



1 




The second fact of importance, discovered in 1820, by Arago and 
^'^•^* Davy, is illustrated in 

figure 2. It consists 
in this, that while a 
current of galvanism is 
passing through a cop- 
per wire A B, it is 
magnetic, it attracts iron filings and not those of copper or brass, and 
is capable of developing magnetism in soft iron. (See Annales de 
Chimie, vol. 15, page 94.) 

The next important discovery, also made in IKIO, by Ampere, was 

that two wires through which galvanic currents are passing in the 

same direction attract, and in opposite direction repel, each other. 

On this fact Ampere founded his celebrated theory, that magnetism 

onsists merely in the attraction of electrical currents revolving at 

right angles to the line joining the two poles of the magnet. The 

magnetisation of a bar of steel or iron, according to this theory, con- 

..■sists in establishing within the metal by induction a series of electrical 

.. ©urrents, all revolving in the same direction at right angles to the 

axis or length of the bar. (See Annales de Chimie, vol. 15, page 69.) 

It was this theory which led Arago, as he states, to adopt the method 

, of magnetizing sewing needles and pieces of steel wire, shown in 

Fig. 3. figure 3. This method 

tricity through a helix 
surrounding the needle or wire to be magnetized. For the 
purpose of insulation the needle was inclosed in a glass tube, and the 
several turns of the helix were at a distance from each other to insure 
the passage of electricity, through the whole length of the wire, or, in 
other words, to prevent it from seeking a shorter passage by cutting 
across from one spire to another. The helix employed by Arago 
obviously approximates the arrangement required by the theory of 
Ampere, in order to develop by induction the magnetism of the iron. 
By an attentive perusal of the original account of the experiments of 
Arago, given in the Annales de Chimie et Physique, vol. XV, 1820, 
page 93, it will be seen that, properly speaking, he made no electro- 
magnet, as has been asserted by Morse and others ; his experiments 
wer*e confined to the magnetism of iron filings, to sewing needles and 
pieces of steel wire of the diameter of a millimetre, or of about the 
thickness of a small knitting needle. (See Annales de Chimie, vol. 
15, page 95.) 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 101 

Mr. Sturgeon, in 1825, made an important step in advance of the 
experiments of Arago, and produced what is properly known as the 
electro-magnet. He bent a piece of iron loire into the form of a horse- 
shoe, covered it with varnish to insulate it, and surrounded it with a 
helix, of which the spires were at a distance. When a current of 
galvanism was passed through the helix from a small battery of a 
single cup the iron wire became magnetic, and continued so during 
the passage of the current. When the current was interrupted the 
magnetism disappeared^ and thus was produced the first temporary 
soft iron magnet. 

The electro-magnet of Sturgeon is shown pig.4, 

in figure 4, which is an exact copy from the 
drawing in the Transactions of the Society 
for the Encouragement of Arts, &c., vol. 
XLIII. By comparing figures 3 and 4 
it will be seen that the helix employed 
by Sturgeon was of the same kind as that 
used by Arago ; instead, however, of b 
straight steel wire inclosed in a tube of 

glass, the former employed a bent wire of soft iron. The difference 
in the arrangement at first sight might appear to be small, but the 
difference in the results produced was important, since the temporary 
magnetism developed in the arrangement of Sturgeon was sufficient 
to support a weight of several pounds, and an instrument was thus 
produced of value in future research. 

The next improvement was made by myself. After reading an 
account of the galvanometer of Schweigger, the idea occurred to me that 
a much nearer approximation to the requirements of the theory of 
Ampere could be attained by insulating the conducting wire itself, 
instead of the rod to be magnetized, and by covering the whole sur- 
face of the iron with a series of coils in close contact. This was 
effected by insulating a long wire with silk thread, and winding this 
around the rod of iron in close coils from one end to the other. The 
same principle was extended by employing a still Fig. 5. 

longer insulated wire, and winding several strata 
of this over the first, care being taken to insure 
the insulation between each stratum by a cover-- 
ing of silk ribbon. By this arrangement the rod 
was surrounded by a compound helix formed of a 
long wire of many coils, instead of a single helix 
of a few coils, (figure 5.) 




102 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

In the arrangement of Arago and Sturgeon the several turns of 
wire were not precisely at right angles to the axis of the rod, as they 
should he^ to produce the effect required by the theory, but slightly 
oblique, and therefore each tended to develop a separate magnetism 
not coincident with the axis of the bar. But in winding the wire 
over itself the obliquity of the several turns compensated each 
other, and the resultant action was at right angles to the bar. The 
arrangement then introduced by myself was superior to those of 
Arago and Sturgeon, first in the greater multiplicity of turns of wire, 
and second in the better application of these turns to the development 
of magnetism. The power of the instrument, with the same amount 
of galvanic force, was by this arrangement several times increased. 
The maximum effect, however, with this arrangement and a single 
battery was not yet obtained. After a certain length of wire had 
been coiled upon the iron the power diminished with a further in- 
crease of the number of turns. This was due to the increased resist- 
ance which the longer wire offered to the conduction of electricity. 
Two methods of improvement therefore suggested themselves. The 
first consisted, not in increasing the length of the coil, bul in using 
a number of separate coils on the same piece of iron. By this ar- 
rangement the resistance to the conduction of the electricity was 
diminished and a greater quantity made to circulate around the iron 
from the same battery. The second method of producing a similar 
result consisted in increasing the number of elements of the battery, 
or, in other words, the projectile force of the electricity, which enabled 
it to pass through an increased number of turns of wire, and thus, 
by increasing the length of the wire, to develop 
the maximum power of the iron. 

To test these principles on a larger scale the 
experimental magnet was constructed, which is 
shown in figure 6. In this a number of com- 
pound helices were placed on the same bar, their 
ends left projecting, and so numbered that they 
could be all united into one long helix, or va- 
riously combined in sets of lessser length. 

From a series of experiments with this and other magnets it was 
proved that, in order to produce the greatest amount of magnetism 
from a battery of a single cup, a number of helices is required ; but 
when a compound battery is used then one long wire must be em- 
ployed, making many turns around the iron, the length of wire and 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS, 103 

consequently the number of turns being commensurate with the pro- 
jectile power of the battery. 

In describing tbe results of my experiments the terms intensiiij and 
quantity magnets were introduced to avoid circumlocution, and were 
intended to be used merely in a technical sense. By the intensity 
magnet I designated a piece of soft iron, so surrounded with wire 
that its magnetic power could be called into operation by an intensity 
battery, and by a quantity magnet, a piece of iron so surrounded by a 
number of separate coils that its magnetism could be fully developed 
by a quantity battery. 

I was the first to point out this connexion of the two kinds of 
the battery with the two forms of the magnet in my paper in Silli- 
man's Journal, January 1831, and clearly to state that when mag- 
netism was to be developed by means of a compound battery, one long 
coil was to be employed, and when the maximum effect was to be pro- 
duced by a single battery, a number of single strands were to be used. 

These steps in the advance of electro-magnetism though sraall^ were 
such as to interest and astonish the scientific world. With the same 
^attery used by Mr. Sturgeon, at least a hundred times more mag- 
netism was produced than could have been obtained by his experiment. 
The developments were considered at the time of much importance 
in a scientific point of view, and they subsequently furnished the means 
by which magneto-electricity, the phenomena of dia-magnetism, and 
the magnetic efiects on polarized light were discovered. They gave 
rise to the various forms of electro-magnetic machines which have 
since exercised the ingenuity of inventors in every part of the world, 
and were of immediate applicability in the introduction of the magnet 
to telegraphic purposes. Neither the electro-magnet of Sturgeon nor 
any electro-magnet ever made previous to my investigations wag 
applicable to transmitting power to a distance. 

The principles I have developed were properly appreciated by the 
scientific mind of Dr. Gale, and applied by him to operate Mr. Morse's 
machine at a distance. 

Previous to my investigations the means of developing magnetism 
in soft iron were imperfectly understood. The electro-magnet made 
by Sturgeon, and copied by Dana, of New York, was an imperfect 
quantity magnet, the feeble power of which was developed by a single 
battery. It was entirely inapplicable to a long circuit with an inten- 
sity battery, and no person possessing the requisite scientific know- 



104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 

ledge would have attempted to use it in that connexion after reading 
my paper. 

In sending a message to a distance two circuits are employed, the 
first a long circuit through which the electricity is sent to the distant 
station to bring into action the second, a short one, in which is the 
local battery and magnet for working the machine. In order to give 
projectile force sufficient to send the power to a distance, it is neces- 
sary to use an intensity battery in the long circuit, and in connexion 
with this, at the distant station, a magnet surrounded with many 
turns of one long wire must be employed to receive and multiply the 
efiect of the current enfeebled by its transmission through the long 
conductor. In the local or short circuit either an intensity or a quan- 
tity magnet may be employed. If the fi.rst be used^ then with it a 
compound battery will be required ; and, therefore, on account of the 
increased resistance due to the greater quantity of acid, a less amount 
of work will be performed by a given amount of material ; and, con- 
sequently, though this arrangement is practicable it is by no means 
economical. In my original paper I state that the advantages of a 
greater conducting power, from using several wires in the quantity 
magnet, may, in a less degree, be obtained by substituting for them one 
large wire ; but in this case, on account of the greater obliquity of 
the spires and other causes, the magnetic effect would be less. In 
accordance with these principles, the receiving magnet, or that which 
is introduced into the long circuit, consists of a horse-shoe magnet 
surrounded with many hundred turns of a single long wire, and is 
operated with a battery of from 12 to 24 elements or more, while in 
the local circuit it is customary to employ a battery of one or two 
elements with a much thicker wire and fewer turns. 

It will, I think, be evident to the impartial reader that these were 
improvements in the electro-magnet which first rendered it adequate 
to the transmission of mechanical power to a distance ; and had I 
omitted all allusion to the telegraph in my paper, the conscientious 
historian of science would have awarded me some credit, however 
small might have been the advance which I made. Arago and Stur- 
geon, in the accounts of their experiments, make no mention of the tel- 
egraph, and yet their names always have been and will be associated 
with the invention. I briefly, however, called attention to the fact of 
the ap[)licability of my experiments to the construction of the tele- 
graph ; but not being familiar with the history of the attempts made 
in regard to this invention, I called it "Barlow's project," while I ought 
to have stated that Mr. Barlow's investigation merely tended to dis- 
prove the possibility of a telegraph. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 105 

I did not refer exclusively to the needle telegraph when, in my 
paper, I stated that the magnetic action of a current from a trough is at 
least not sensibly diminished by passing through a long wire. This 
is evident from the fact that the immediate experiment from which 
this deduction was made was by means of an electro-magnet and not 
by means of a needle galvanometer. 

At the conclusion of the series of experiments which I described in 
Silliman's Journal, there were two applications of the electro-magnet 
in my mind : one the production of a machine to be moved by electro- 
magnetism, and the other the transmission of or calling into action 
power at a distance. The first was carried into execution in the con- 
struction of the machine described in Silliman's Journal, vol. 20, 1831, 
and for the purpose of experimenting in regard to the second, I ar- 
ranged around one of the upper rooms in the Albany Academy a 
wire of more than a mile in length, through which I was enabled to 
make signals by sounding a bell, (fig. ^^- '• 

7.) The mechanical arrangement for 
afiecting this object was simply a 
steel bar, permanently magnetized, of 
about ten inches in length, supported 
on a pivot and placed with its north 
end between the two arms of a horse- 
shoe magnet. When the latter was 
excited by the current, the end of the 
bar thus placed was attracted by one 
arm of the borse-shoe, and repelled 
by the other, and was thus caused to 

move in a horizontal plane and its further extremity to strike a bell 
suitably adjusted. 

This arrangement is that which is alluded to in Professor Hall's 
letter* as having been exhibited to him in 1832 It was not, however, 
at that time connected with the long wire above mentioned, but with 
a shorter one put up around the room for exhibition. 

At the time of giving my testimony, I was uncertain as to when I 
had first exhibited this contrivance, but have since definitely settled 
the fact by the testimony of Hall and others that it was before I left 
Albany, and abundant evidence can be brought to show that previous 
to my going to Princeton in November, 1832, my mind was much 
occupied with the subject of the telegraph, and that I introduced it in 
my course of instruction to the senior class in the Academy, I should 

* See the Report of the Committee, page 96, and Proceedings of the Albany Institute, 
anuary, 1858. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

state, however, that the arrangement that I have described was merely 
a temporary one, and that I had no idea at the time of abandoning 
my researches for the practical application of the telegraph. Indeed, 
my experiments on the transmission of power to a distance were super- 
seded by the investigation of the remarkable phenomena, which I had 
discovered in the course of these experiments, of the induction of a 
current in a long wire on itself, and of which I made the first mention 
in a paper in Silliman's Journal in 1832, vol. 22. 

I also devised a method of breaking a circuit, and thereby causing a 
large weight to fall. It was intended to illustrate the practicabihty of 
calling into action a great power at a distance capable of producing 
mechanical effects ; but as a description of this was not printed, I do 
not place it in the same category with the experiments of which I 
published an account, or the facts which could be immediately de- 
duced from my papers in Silliman's Journal. 

From a careful investigation of the history of electro-magnetism 
in its connexion with the telegraph, the following facts may be es- 
tablished : 

1. Previous to my investigations the means of developing magnetism 
in soft iron were imperfectly understood, and the electro-magnet 
which then existed was inapplicable to the transmission of power to a 
distance. 

2. I was the first to prove by actual experiment that, in order to 
develop magnetic power at a distance, a galvanic battery of intensity 
must be employed to project the current through the long conductor, 
and that a magnet surrounded by many turns of one long wire must be 
used to receive this current. 

3 I was the first actually to magnetize a piece of iron at a distance, 
and to call attention to the fact of the applicability of my experiments 
to the telegraph. 

4. I was the first to actually sound a bell at a distance by means of 
the electro- magnet. 

5. The principles I had developed were applied by Dr. Gale to 
render Morse's machine effective at a distance. 

The results here given were among my earliest experiments ; in a 
Bcientific point of view I considered them of much less importance 
than what I subsequently accomplished ; and had I not been called 
upon to give my testimony in regard to them, I would have suffered 
them to remain without calling public attention to them, a part of the 
history of science to be judged of by scientific men who are the best 
qualified to pronounce upon their merits. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 107 



DEPOSITION OF JOSEPH HENRY, IN THE CASE OF 
MORSE vs. O'REILLY, 

TAKEN AT BOSTON, SEPTEMBER, 1849. 

[From the Record of the Supreme Court of the United States '\ 

1. Please state your place of residence and your occupation ; also, 
what attention, if any, you ha/e given to the subjects of electricity, 
magnetism, and electro-magnetism. 

Answer. — I begin tliis deposition with the express statement that I 
do not voluntarily give my testimony ; but that I appear on legal 
summons, and in submission to law. I am Secretary to the Smith- 
sonian Institution^ established in the city of Washington, where I 
now reside. The principal direction of the Institution is confided to 
me. As I do not expect to return to Washington until some time in 
October, I have been called upon to give my testimony here in Boston; 
on this account I labor under the disadvantage of being obliged to 
testily without my notes and papers, which are now in Washington. 

I commenced the study of electro-magnetism in 1827 ; and since then 
have, at different times, [until] within the last two and a half years, 
when I became Secietary of the Smithsonian Institution, made original 
investigations in this and kindred branches of physical science. I know 
no person in our country who has paid more attention to the study of 
the principles of electro-magnetism than myself. 

2. Please give a general account of the progress of the science of 
electro magnetism, as connected with telegraphic communication ; and 
of any inventions or discoveries in electro-magnetism applicable to 
the telegraph, made by yourself. 

Ansioer. — I consider an electromagnetic telegraph as one v^^hich 
operates by the combined influence of electricity and magnetism. Prior 
to tUe winter of 181'J-'20, no form of the electro-magnetic telegraph 
was possible ; the scientific principles on which it is founded were 
then unknown. The first fact of electro-magnetism was discovered 
by Oersted, of Copenhagen, during that winter. It is this : A wire 
being placed close above, or below, and parallel to a magnetic needle, 
and a galvanic current being transmitted through the wire, the needle 
will tend to place itself at right ana:les to it. This fact was widely 
published, and the account was everywhere received with interest. 

The second fact of importance was discovered independently, and 
about the same time, by Arago, at Paris, and Davy, at London. It 
is this : During the transmission of a galvanic current through a wire 
of copper, or any other metal, the wire exhibits magnetic properties, 
attracting iron, but not copper filings, and having the power of in- 
ducing permanent magnetism in steel needles. The next important 
fact was discovered by Ampere, of Paris, one of the most sagacious 
and successful cultivators of physical science in the present century. 
It is this : Two parallel wires through which galvanic currents are 
passing ia. the same direction, attract each olher ; but if the currents 



108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 

pass in opposite directions, they repel each other. On this fact 
Ampere founded his ingenious theory of magnetism and electro-mag- 
netism. According to this thejry, all magnetic phenomena result 
from the attraction or repulsion of electric currents, supposed to exist 
in the iron at right angles to the length of the bar ; and that all the 
phenomena of magnetism and electro magnetism are thus referred to 
one principle, namely, the action of electrical currents on each other. 

Ampere deduced from this theory many interesting results, which 
were afterwards verified by experiment. He also proposed to the 
French Academy a plan for the application of electro-magnetism to 
the transmission of intelligence to a distance ; this consisted in de- 
flecting a number of needles at the place of receiving intelligence, by 
galvanic currents transmitted through long wires. This transmission 
was to be effected by completing a galvanic circuit. When completed, 
the needle was deflected. When interrupted, it returned to its ordi- 
nary position, under the influence of the attraction of the earth. This 
project of Ampere was never reduced to practice. All these discoveries 
and results were prior to 1823. 

The next investigations relating to the magnetic telegraph were 
published in 1825 ; they were by Mr. Barlow, of the Royal Military 
Academy of Woolwich, England. He found that there was great 
diminution in the power of the galvanic current to produce effects 
with an increase of distance; a diminution so great in a distance of 
two hundred feet was observed, as to convince him of the impractica- 
bility of the scheme of the electro-magnetic telegraph. His experi- 
ments led him to conclude that the power was inversely as the 
square root of the length of the wire. The publication of these 
results put at rest, for a time, all attempts to construct an electro- 
magnetic telegraph. 

The next investigations, in the order of time, bearing on the tele- 
graph, were made by Mr. Sturgeon, of England. He bent a piece of 
iron wire into the form of a horse-shoe, and put loosely around it a 
coil of copper wire, with wide intervals between the turns or spires 
to prevent them touching each other, and through this coil he trans- 
mitted a current of galvanism. The iron, under the influence of this 
current, became magnetic, and thus was produced the first electro- 
magnetic magnet, sometimes called simply the electro-magnet. An 
account of this experiment was first published in November, 1825, in 
the Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of the Arts in 
England ; and was made known in this country through the Annals 
of Philosophy for November, 1826. 

Nothing further was done pertaining to the telegraph until my 
own researches in electro-magnetism, which were commenced in 1828, 
and continued in 1829, 1830, and subsequently ; Barlow's results, as 
I before observed, had prevented all attempts to construct a magnetic 
telegraph on the plan of Ampere, and our own knowledge of the de- 
velopment' of magnetism in soft iron, as left by Sturgeon, was not 
such as to be applicable to telegraphic purposes. The electro-magnet 
of Sturgeon could not be made to act by a current through a long 
wire, as will be apparent hereafter in this deposition. 

After repeating the experiments of Oersted, Ampere, and others, 
and publishing an account in IBzS of various modifications of electro- 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 109 

maojnetic apparatus, I commenced in that year the investigation of 
the laws of the development of magnetism in soft iron, by means of 
the electrical current. The first idea that occurred to me in accord- 
ance with the theory of Ampere, with reference to increasing the 
power of the electro-magnet, was that of using a longer wire than 
had before been employed. A wire of sixty feet in length, covered 
with silk, was wound round a whole length of an iron bar, either 
straight or in the form of a U, so as to cover its whole length with 
several thicknesses of the wire. 

The results of this arrangement were such as I had anticipated, 
and electro-magnets of this kind, exhibited to the Albany Institute 
in March, 1829, possessed magnetic power superior to that of any 
before known. 

The idea afterwards occurred to me that the quantity of galvanism, 
supplied by a small galvanic battery, might be applied to develop a 
still greater amount of magnetic power in a large bar of iron. On 
experiment, I found this idea correct. A battery of two and a half 
square inches of zinc, developed magnetism in a large bar sufficient to 
lift fourteen pounds. 

The next suggestion which occurred to me was that of using a 
number of wires of the same length around the same bar, so as to 
lessen the resistance which the galvanic current experienced in pass- 
ing from the zinc to the copper through the coil. To bring this to 
the test of experiment, a second wire, equal in length to the first, 
was wound around the last mentioned magnet, and its ends soldered 
to the plates of the same battery. 

The magnet with this additional wire lifted twenty-eight pounds, 
or, in other words, its power was doubled. 

A series of experiments was afterwards made, to determine the re- 
sistance to conduction of wires of different lengths and diameters, and 
the proper lengths and number of wires for producing, with different 
kinds of galvanic batteries, the maximum of amount of magnetic de- 
velopment with a given quantity of zinc surface. For this purpose a 
bar of soft iron, two inches square and twenty inches long, weighing 
twenty-one pounds, and much larger than any before used, was bent 
in the form of a horse-shoe. Around this were wound nine strands 
of copper wire, each sixty feet long, the ends left projecting so that 
one or more coils could be used at once, either connected with a bat- 
tery or with each other, thus forming several coils with several battery 
connexions, or one long coil with single battery connexions. The 
greatest effect obtained with this magnet, using a battery of a single 
pair, with a zinc plate of two-fifths of a square foot of surface, and all 
the wire arranged as separate coils, was to lift a weight of six hun- 
dred and fifty pounds ; with a large battery the effect was increased 
to seven hundred and fifty pounds. In a subsequent series of experi- 
ments, not published with the preceding, the same magnet was made 
to sustain one thousand pounds. When a compound battery was 
employed of a number of pairs, it was found that the greatest effect 
was produced when all the wires were arranged as a single long coil. 
I subsequently constructed electro-magnets on the same plan, which 
supported much greater weights. One of these, now in the cabinet 
of Princeton, will sustain three thousand six hundred pounds with a 



110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 

battery occupying about a cubic foot of space. It consists of tbirty 
strands of wire, each about forty feet in length. 

The abovementioned experiments exhibit the important fact that 
when a galvanic battery of intensity (that is to say, a battery con- 
sisting of a number of pairs) is employed, the electro-magnet con- 
nected with it must be wound with one long wire, in order to produce 
the greatest effect ; and that when a battery of quantity, (that is, one 
of a single pair,) is employed, the proper form of the magnet con- 
nected with it is that in which several shorter wires are w^ound around 
the iron. The first of these magnets, which is the one now employed 
in the long or main circuit of the telegraph, may be called an intensity 
magnet ; and the second, which is used in the local circuit, may be 
denominated the quantity. 

The quantity of electricity which can be passed through a long 
circuit of ordinary-sized wire is, under the most favorable circum- 
stances, exceedingly small, and in order that this may develop mag- 
netism in a bar of iron, it was necessary that it should be made to 
revolve many times around the iron, that its effects may be multiplied ; 
and this is effected by using along single coil. Hence it will be seen 
that the electro-magnet of Mr. Sturgeon was not applicable to tele- 
graphic purposes in a long circuit. 

Previous to making the last experiments abovementioned, in order 
to guide myself, I instituted a series of preliminary experiments on 
the conduction of wires of different lengths and diameters, with dif- 
ferent batteries. In these experiments a galvanometer, or aa instru- 
ment consisting of a magnetic needle freely suspended within a coil 
of wire, was first employed to denote, by the deflectioa of its needle, 
the power of the current. The result from a number of experiments, 
with a battery of a single pair, was the same as that obtained by 
Barlow, namely, tbat the power diminished rapidly with the increase 
of distance With the same battery, and a larger wire, the diminution 
was less. The galvanometer was next removed, and a small electro- 
magnet subslituttd in its place. With a single battery, the same 
result was again obtained — a great diminution of lifting power with 
the increase of distance. After this the battery of a single pair was 
removed and its place supi)lied by one ot intensity, consisting of 
twenty-five pairs. With this the important fact was observed^ that 
no perceptible diminution of the lifting power took place, when the 
current was transmitted through an intervening wire between the 
battery and the magnet of upwards of one thousand feet. 

This was the first discovery of the fact that a galvanic current 
could be transmitted to a great distance with so little a diminution of 
force as to produce mechanical effects, and of the means by which the 
transmission could be accomplished. I saw that the electric tele- 
graph was now practicable ; and, in publishing my experimenis and 
their results, I stated that the fact just mentioned was applicable to 
Barlow's project of such a telegraph. I had not the paper ot Barlow 
before me, and erred in attributing to him a project of a telegraph, as 
he only disproved, as he thought, the practicability of one. But the 
intention of the statement was to show that I had established the fact 
that a mechanical effect could be produced by the galvanic current at 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. Ill 

a great distance, operating upon a magnet or needle, and that the 
telegraph was therefore possible. In arriving at these results, and 
announcing their applicability to the telegraph, I had not in mind 
any particular form of telegraph, but referred only to the general fact 
that it was now demonstrated that a galvanic current could be trans- 
mitted to great distances with sufficient power to produce mechanical 
effects adequate to the desired object. 

The investigations above mentioned were all devised and originated, 
and the experiments planned, by myself. In conducting the latter, 
however, I was assisied by Dr. Philip Ten Eyck, of Albany. An 
account of the whole was published in the 19th volume of Silliman's 
Journal, in 1831, with the exception of the account of the large 
magnet afterwards constructed at Princeton in 1833, and the experi- 
ment mentioned of lifting a thousand pounds with one of my first 
magnets. While I was engaged in these researches. Prof. Moll, of 
the University of Utrecht, was pursuing investigations somewhat 
similar, and succeeded in making powerful electro-magnets, but made 
no discovery as to the distinction between the two kinds of magnets, 
or the transmissibility of the galvanic current to a great distance with 
power to produce mechanical effects. In fact, his experiments were 
but a repetition on a large scale of those of Sturgeon. 

After completing the investigations abovementioned, I commenced 
a series of experiments on another branch of electricity closely con- 
nected with this subject. Among other things, I applied the princi- 
ples above mentioned to the construction of an electro-magnetic 
machine, which has since excited much attention in reference to the 
application of electro-magnetism as a motive power in the arts. 

In 1832 I was called to the chair of natural philosophy in the 
College of New Jersey, at Princeton, and in my first course of lectures - 
in that institution, in 1833, and in every subsequent year during my 
connexion with that institution, I mentioned the project of the electro- 
magnetic telegraph, and explained how the electro-magnet might be 
used to produce mechanical effects at a distance adequate to making 
signals of various kinds. I never myself attempted to reduce these 
principles to practice, or to apply any of my discoveries to processes 
in the arts. My whole attention, exclusive of my duties to the college, 
was devoted to original scientific investigations, and I left to others 
what I considered in a scientific view of subordinate importance the 
application of my discoveries to useful purposes in the arts. Besides 
this, I partook of the feeling common to men of science, which disin- 
clines them to secure to themselves the advantages of their discoveries 
by a patent. 

In February, 1837, I went to Europe ; and early in April of that 
year Prof. Wheatstone, of Loudon, in the course of a visit to him in 
King's College, London, with Prof. Bacne, now of the Coast Survey, 
explained to us his plans of an electro-magnetic telegraph ; and^ among 
other things, exhibited to us his method of bringing into action a 
second galvanic circuit. This consisted in closing the second circuit 
by the deflection of a needle, so placed that the two ends projecting 
upwards, of the open circuit, would be united by the contact of the 
ond of the needle when deflected, and on opening or breaking of the 



112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

circuit so closed by opening the first circuit, and thus interrupting the 
current, when the needle would resume its ordinary position under 
the inflaence of the magnetism of the earth. I informed him that I 
had devised another method of producing effects somewhat similar. 
This consisted in opening the circuit of my large quantity magnet at 
Princeton, when loaded with many hundred pounds weight, by at- 
tracting upward a small piece of moveable wire, with a small intensity 
magnet, connected with a long wire circuit. When the circuit of the 
large battery was thus broken by an action from a distance, the 
weights would fall, and great mechanical effect could thus be pro- 
duced, such as the ringing of church bells at a distance of a hundred 
miles or more, an illustration which I had previously given to my 
class at Princeton. My impression is strong, that I had explained 
the precise process to my class before I went to Europe, but testifying 
now without the opportunity of reference to my notes, I cannot speak 
positively. I am, however, certain of having mentioned in my lectures 
every year previously, at Princeton, the project of ringing bells at a 
distance, by the use of the electro-magnet, and of having frequently 
illustrated the principle of transmitting power to a distance to my 
class, by causing in some cases a thousand pounds to fall on the floor, 
by merely lifting a piece of wire from two cups of mercury closing the 
circuit. 

The object of Prof. Wheatstone, as I understood it, in bringing into 
action a second circuit, was to provide a remedy for the diminution of 
force in a long circuit. My object, in the process described by me, was 
to bring into operation a large quantity magnet, connected with a 
quantity battery in a local circuit, by means of a small intensity 
magnet, and an intensity battery at a distance. 

The only other scientific facts of importance to the practical opera- 
tion of the telegraph not already mentioned are the discovery by 
Steinheil, iu 1837, in Germany, of the practicability of completing a 
galvanic circuit, by using the earth for completing the circuit, and 
the construction of the constant battery in 1836, or about that time, 
by Professor Daniell, of King's College, London. I believe that I was 
the first to repeat the experiments of Steinheil and Daniell in this 
country. I stretched a wire from my study to my laboratory, through 
a distance in the air of several hundred yards, and used the earth 
as a return conductor, with a very minute battery, the negative ele- 
ment of which was a common pin, such as is used in dress, and the 
positive element the point of a zinc wire immersed in a single drop of 
acid. With this arrangement, a needle was deflected in my laboratory 
before my class. I afterwards transmitted currents in various direc- 
tions through the college grounds at Princeton. The exact date of 
these experiments I am unable to give without reference to my notes. 
They were previous, however, to the unsuccessful attempt of Mr. Morse 
to transmit currents of electricity through wires buried in the earth 
between Washington and Baltimore, and before he attempted to use 
the earth as a part of the circuit. Previous to this time, and after the 
abovementioned experiments, Mr. Morse visited meat Princeton, to 
consult me on the arrangement of his conductors. During this visit, 
we conversed freely on the subject of insulation and conduction of 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 113 

wires. I urged him to put his wires on poles, and stated to him my 
experiments and their results. 

In the course of the years 1836 and 18S7, various plans of more or 
less merit, were devised, and more or less fully carried into effect, for 
applying the principles already discovered to the construction of electro- 
magnetic telegraphs in different parts of the world, but of these 1 do 
not undertake to give any particular account. I would say, however, 
that of these plans that for which Mr. Morse subsequently obtained a 
patent was, in my judgment, the best. 

3. Please state whether or not you are acquainted with the electro- 
magnetic telegraph for which S. F. B. Morse obtained a patent in 
1846. If you are, please state whether any, and if any, which of the 
principles or plans which you have described as discovered, or an- 
nounced by yourself or others are used in the construction or opera- 
tion of it. State also what principles used in the telegraph are, so 
far as you know, original with Professor Morse. 

Ansiver. — I am acquainted with the principles and general mode of 
operation of the telegraph and improvement referred to. The tele- 
graph is based upon the facts discovered by myself and others, of 
which I have already given an account. 

The plan which was first described to me in the autumn of 1837 by 
Mr. Morse, or by Professor Gale, who was associated with him in the 
construction of the telegraph, was to employ a single entire circuit of 
wire, with an intensity battery to excite the current, and an intensity 
magnet to receive it and produce a mechanical action, which would 
work the recording apparatus. Mr. Morse afterwards employed the 
intensity battery in a long circuit, and an intensity magnet to receive 
its current at a distant point, and produce the mechanical effect of 
closing a secondary circuit. The secondary circuit may be either em- 
ployed to transmit a second current to a distant point and there close 
a third circuit, and thus continue the line, or for working a recording 
apparatus in the secondary circuit, or it may be employed without 
reference to the continuation of the line, as a short local circuit to work 
a local magnet. In the first case, there must be in the secondary cir- 
cuit an intensity battery and intensity magnet; in the last case, a quan- 
tity magnet and quantity battery are required. 

I heard nothing of the secondary circuit as a part of Mr. Morse's 
plan until after his return from Europe, whither he went in 1838. It 
was not till long after this that Mr. Morse used the earth as a part of 
the circuit in accordance with the discovery of Steinheil. 

I am not aware that Mr. ]\Iorse ever made a single original dis- 
covery, in electricity, magnetism, or electro-magnetism, applicable to 
the invention of the telegraph. I have always considered his merit 
to consist in combining and applying the discoveries of others in the 
invention of a particular instrument and process for telegraphic pur- 
I)Oses. I have no means of determining how far this invention is 
original with himself, or how much is due to those associated with him. 

4. Please state when you first became acquainted with Mr. Morse, 
and what knowledge he possessed of electricity, magnetism, and 

8 s 



114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

electro-magnetism, and what information yon or others commu- 
nicated to him relating to the telegraph. State, also, all you know 
of the attempts of himself^ and others associated with him, to construct 
an electro-magnetic telegraph, either from your own observation or 
from statements made by himself or by others in your presence. 
State particularly any conversation, if any, you may have had with 
him in reference to your own discoveries applied to the telegraph. 

Ansiver. — Shortly after my return from Europe, in the autumn of 
1837, I learned that Mr. Morse was about to petition Congress for 
assistance in constructing the electro-magnetic telegraph. Some of 
my friends in Princeton, knowing what I had done in developing the 
principles of the telegraph, urged me to make the representations to 
Congress, which I expressed some thought of doing, namely : that 
the principles of the electro-magnetic telegraph belonged to the 
science of the world, and that any appropriation which might be 
made by Congress should be a premium for the best plan, and the 
means of testing the same, which the ingenuity of the country might 
offer. Shortly after this I visited New York, and there accidentally 
made the personal acquaintance of Mr. Morse ;* he appeared to be an 
unassuming and prepossessing gentleman, with very little knowledge 
of the general jjrinciples of electricity, magnetism, or electro-magnet- 
ism. He made no claims, in conversation with me to any scientific 
discovery, or to anything l3eyond his particular machine and process 
of applying known principles to telegraphic purposes. He explained 
to me his plan of a telegraph with which he had recently made a 
successful experiment ; I thought this plan better than any with 
which I had been made acquainted in Europe ; I became interested 
in him, and instead of interfering in his application to Congress, I 
[subsequentlyt] gave him a certificate, in the form of a letter, stating 
my confidence in the practicability of the electro-magnetic telegraph 
and my belief that the form proposed by himself was the best which 
had been published. 

Mr. Morse subsequently visited Princeton several times to confer 
with me on the principles of electricity and magnetism which might 
be applicable to the telegraph. I freely gave him any information I 
possessed. 

I learned in 1837, or thereabouts, that Professor Gale and Dr. 
Fisher were the scientific assistants of Mr. Morse in preparing the 
telegraph.- Mr. Vail was also employed, but I know not in what 
capacity, and I am not personally acquainted with him. With Pro- 
fessor Gale I have been intimately acquainted for several years ; he 
had been a pupil in chemistry of my friend Dr. Torrey, and had 
studied my papers on electro-magnetism, and, as he informed me, 
had a[)plied them in the arrangement of the apparatus for the con- 
struction of Morse's telegraph. 

My researches had been given to the world several years before the 
attempt was made to reduce the magnetic telegraph to practice. Mr. 

* This meeting took place in the chemical store of Mr. Cliilton, Broadway, New York, 
and the place and time are both indelibly impressed upon my mind. 

t The word subsequently was accidentally omitted in giving my testimony. The omission, 
however, is of little importance. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 115 

Cliilton, of New York, informed me that he had referred Mr. Morse 
to them previous to his experiments in the New York University. I 
was therefore much surprised on the publication, in 1845, of a work 
purporting to give a history of the telegraph, and of the principles on 
which it was founded, by Mr. Vail, then principal assistant of Mr. 
Morse, and one of the proprietors of his patent, to find all my 
published researches relating to the telegraph passed over with little 
more than the remark that Dr. Moll and myself had made large 
electro-magnetic magnets. Presuming that this publication was 
authorized by Mr. Morse and the proprietors of the telegraph, I com- 
plained to some of his friends of the injustice, and after his return 
trom Europe, (for he was absent at the time the book was issued,) I 
received a letter, copied and signed by Mr. Vail, but written by Mr. 
Morse, as the latter afterwards informed me, excusing the publication, 
on the ground that he (Mr. Vail) was ignorant of what I had done, 
and asking me for an account of my researches. This letter was 
addressed to me after the book had been stereotyped and widely 
circulated. It has been translated into French, and, I believe, 
published in Paris. To the letter I did not think fit to make 
any reply. I afterwards received a letter from Mr. Morse, in his 
own name, on the same subject, to which I gave a verbal reply in 
January, 1847, in Washington. In this interview Mr. Morse acknow- 
ledged that injustice had been done me, but said that proper repara- 
tion would be made. Another issue of the same work was made, 
b<>aring date 1847, in which there is no change in the statement 
relative to my researches. 

About the beginning of 1848 Mr. Walker, of the Coast Survey, in 
a report on the application of the telegraph to the determination of 
differences of longitude, alluded to my researches. A copy of this 
was sent to Mr. Morse, which led to an interview between Mr. Walker, 
Professor Gale, Mr. Morse, and myself. At this meeting, which took 
place at my office in Washington, Mr. Morse stated that he had not 
known until reading my paper in January, 1847, that I had two years 
before his first conception in 1832, settled the point of practicability 
of the telegraph, and shown how mechanical effects could be produced 
at a distance, both in the deflection of a needle and in the action of an 
electro-magnet; that he did not know, at the time of his experiments 
in 1837 that there had been any doubts of the action of a current at 
a distance, and that in the confidence of the persuasion that the effect 
could be produced, he had devised the proper apparatus by which his 
telegraph was put in operation. Professor Gale, being then referred 
to, stated that Mr. Morse had forgotten the precise state of the case; 
that he, (Mr. Morse,) previous to his, (Dr. Gale's,) connexion with 
him, had not succeeded in producing effects at a distance; that, when 
he was first called in he found Mr. Morbe attempting to make an 
electro-magnet act through a circuit of a few yards of copper wire 
suspended around a room in the University of New York, and that 
he could not succeed in producing the desired effect even in this 
that circuit; that he (Dr. Gale) asked him if he had studied Prof. 
Henry's paper on the subject, and that the answer was "no;" that 
he then informed Mr. Morse that he would find the principles 



116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

necessary to success explained in that paper; that instead of the 
battery of a single element, he should employ one of a number of 
pairs ; and that, in place of the magnet with a short single wire, he 
should use one with a long coil. Dr. Gale further stated that his 
apparatus was in the same building, and that having articles of- the 
kind he had mentioned, he procured them, and that with these the 
action was produced through a circuit of half a mile of wire.* To this 
statement Mr. Morse made no reply. The interview then terminated, 
and I have since had no further communication with him on the subject. 

5. Please state whether or not you ever constructed any machine 
for producing motion by magnetic attraction and repulsion ; if yea, 
what was it, and what led to the making of it. 

Answer. — After developing the great magnetic power of the electro- 
magnet as already described, the thought occurred to me that this 
power might be applied to give motion to a machine. The simplest 
arrangement which suggested itself to my mind was one already re- 
ferred to, namely, causing a movable bar, supported on a horizontal 
axis like a scale beam, to be attracted and repelled by two permanent 
magnets. This could be readily effected by transmitting through a 
coil of wire around the suspended bar a current of galvanism, first in 
one direction, and then in the opposite direction, the alternations of 
the current being produced by dipping the ends of wires projecting 
from the coils into cups of mercury connected with batteries, one on 
either side. An account of tliis was published in Silliman's Journal, 
for 1831, vol. XX., p. 340. It was the first successful attempt to pro- 
duce a mechanical motion which might apparently be employed in 
the arts as a motive power. This little machine attracted much atten- 
tion at home and abroad, and various modifications of it were made 
by myself and others. I never, however, regarded it as practically 
applicable in the arts, because of the great expense of producing 
power by this means, except, perhaps, in particular cases where ex- 
pense of power is of little consequence. 

6. Please look at the drawings of the Columbian telegraph, now 
shown you, marked G. W. B. and N. B. C, and certified by G. S. Hil- 
lard, Commissioner. Describe generally the apparatus represeated 
and its mode of operation, and state in what respects, if any, it differs 
from the telegraphic apparatus patented by Mr. Morse. 

Answer. — I have looked at the drawings, and I find, on examina- 
tion, that it will be impossible for me to give a definite answer to the 
question, unless I have more time than is now at my disposal, and 
the means of examining and comparing the operations of the 
machines. 

7. Please state, if you can, how many original experiments you 
have made in the course of your investigations in electricity, mag- 
netism, and electro-magnetism. 

Answer. — The experiments I have mentioned in this deposition 
form but a small part of my original investigations. Besides many 

* See Dr. ale's letter of April 7, 1856, page 93. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS, 117 

that I made in Albany, which I have not mentioned, since my re- 
moval to Princeton, I have made several thousands on electricity, 
magnetism, and electro-magnetism, particularly the former, -which 
have more or less hearing on practical applications of this branch of 
science, brief minutes of which fill several hundred folio pages. Many 
of these have not been published in detail. They have cost me years 
of labor and much expense. 

The only reward I ever expected was the consciousness of advancing 
science, the pleasure of discovering new truths, and the scientific 
reputation to which these labors would entitle me. 

JOSEPH HENRY. 

Sworn to before me, Sentember 7, 1849. 

GEO. S. HILLARD, 

Commissioner. 



GENEEAL APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT FOR 1857. 



The object of this Appendix is to illustrate the operations of the 
Institution by the reports of lectures and extracts from correspond- 
ence, as well as to furnish information of a character suited especially 
to the meteorological observers and other persons interested in the 
promotion of knowledge. 



LECTURES ON COAL. 



BY PROFESSOR JOSEPH LB CONTE, 



Nature is a book in whicli are revealed the divine character and 
mind. Science is the human interpretation of this divine hook, liu- 
man attempts to understand the thoughts and plans of Deity. The 
hook being divine, it is evident that all parts are equally sacred. 
The subjects of all sciences may be said to be equally, because they 
are all infinitely, noble. To the scientific mind the organization of an 
insect, a polyp, or an infusorial animalcule is no less dignified a sub- 
ject of human inquiry than the organization of the solar system. Yet, 
as in the Sacred Scriptures, while all parts are equally sacred, because 
all are divine, some are cherished with peculiar reverence, as giving 
nobler conceptions of divine character, or clearer views of human duty. 
So also in science there are some branches which, by a certain magni- 
tude in the objects with which they deal, strike the imagination and 
kindle the enthusiasm in a peculiar degree. From a purely abstract 
or intellectual point of view they may be all equal, but as human stu- 
dies, as means of elevating the mind and ennobling the soul, they 
differ very much among themselves. 

In this, the noblest function of science, there are two departments 
which stand out beyond all others, viz : astronomy and geology. We 
are all accustomed to look upon astronomy as the most magnificent of 
sciences, as more than all others extending the bounds of human 
intellectual vision ; but I am perfectly confident that when the age 
has grasped as firmly and apprehended as clearly the fundamental 
idea of geology as it has already done that of astronomy, all will 
agree with me in thinking that the former is not one whit behind the 
latter in the overwhelming grandeur of its conceptions. Let us, then, 
compare these two noble sciences. Let us attempt to vindicate the 
claims of geology to stand beside astronomy in the very first rank of 
sciences as twin sisters, distinguished from all others by superior 
beauty and dignity. 

There are two conditions of material existence, viz : space and time. 
We cannot conceive of material existence except under these two con- 
ditions. Now, the peculiar province of astronomy is space, as that of 
geology is time. Other sciences may have to do with space, limited 
space, a portion of space, but it belongs to astronomy alone to deal 
with infinite space. So also there are other sciences which necessarily 
deal with limited time, but it is the peculiar prerogative of geology to 
deal with infinite time.* As astromy is limited in time to the present 
epoch, or, in fact, to about two thousand years, but unlimited in space, 
so also geology is limited in space to the surface of the earth, but un- 
limited in time. As astronomy measures her distances by billions of 



* We use the term " wylm^e" with reference to time, as with reference to space, as synony- 
mous with inconceivahhj great, illimitable by human conception. 



1'20 LECTURES 

miles, or millions of earth radii, so geology her epochs hy millions 
of years, i. e., earth revolutions. As the astronomer takes the ra- 
dius of the earth as a base line wherewith to measure the dimensions 
of the solar system, so the geologist takes the present geological 
epoch, and " causes now in operation," as a time measuring rod, with 
which to estimate the length of the tertiary period. As the astrono- 
mer, becoming more bold as he ascends, takes the diameter of the 
earth's orbit as a line wherewith to calculate the distances of the fixed 
stars, or even dares to estimate the probable distance of the remotest 
nebula, so the geologist, no less daring, takes the tertiary as a rod 
wherewith to measure approximatively the almost inconceivable lapse 
of time represented by the secondary rocks, or even dares to cast his 
telescopic glance back into the dim nebulosity of the remotest palaeo- 
zoic period. Finally, as the astronomer _, when telescopic vision fails, 
still speculates, though filled with awe, concerning the infinite, un- 
known abyss of space beyond, so also the geologist, when mile-stones 
are no longer visible^ when fossils and stratified rocks fail, still vainly 
peers with wondering gaze backward, and strives to pierce the dark- 
ness beyond, still believes that all he sees, or can ever hope to see, is 
but a fragment of the infinite abyss of time beyond. Overwhelmed, 
appalled, he shrinks back within himself, and remembers that his own 
mind, so daring, so arrogant, so apparently limitless, is also but a 
fragment of the infinite intelligence. 

Thus, while astronomy fills the regions of the universe with objects, 
geology fills the regions of infinite duration with events. As astronomy 
carries us upwards by the relations of geometry, geology carries us 
backwards by the relations of cause and efi'ect. As astronomy steps 
irom point to point of the universe by a chain of triangles, so geology 
stej)s trom epoch to epoch of the earth's history by a chain of me- 
chanical and organical laws. If one depend on the axioms of geome- 
try, the other depends upon the axioms of causation. In a word, the 
realm of astronomy is the universe of space, that of geology the uni- 
verse of time. The one peoples her universe with space-ivorlds , the 
other her's with creations — time-ioorlds. 

The great object of all science is to establish the universality of law ; 
harmony in the midst of apparent confusion ; unity in the midst of 
diversity; unity of force amidst diversity of phenomena, physical sci- 
ence ; unity of plan in the midst of diversity of expression, natural 
science. Now, it is the peculiar province of astronomy to establish 
this universality of law throughout all space^ as it is of geology 
throughout all time. Astronomy shows that the same force which 
controls the falling of a stone governs the motions of the heavenly 
bodies ; so also geology shows that the changes through which each 
animal passes in its embryonic development are similar to those 
through which the whole earth and its inhabitants have passed in 
the course of its geological history; that the same mind which now 
conducts the one has presided through all time over the other. If 
astronomy, more than all other sciences, illustrates that sublime attri- 
bute of Deity, His omnipresence or unchangeableness in space, geology, 
more than all other sciences, illustrates that other sublime attribute 
of Deity, His immutability or unchangeableness in time. 



ON COAL. 121 

There are in the history of science two eras which, more than all 
others, strike the imagination and fill the mind with admiration. Or 
rather, I should say, two moments, the greatest in the intellectual 
h'story of the human race. They are those in w^hich were horn in 
the mind of man the fundamental ideas of astronomy and geology — 
the ideas of infinite space and infinite time, containing other worlds 
and other creations. You have all, probably, thought of the sublimity 
of that moment when the idea of infinite space, peopled with worlds 
like our own, was first thoroughly realized by the mind of man. You 
have all, probably, shared in imagination the exstacy of Galileo as 
gazing with awe through the first telescope, the phases of Venus and 
the satellites of Jupiter suddenly revealed to him the existence of 
other worlds besides his own. Before that pregnant moment our own 
was alone in the universe. Sun, moon, and stars were but satellites 
to the earth. Astronomy was but the geometry of the heavens ; the 
geometry ot the curious lines which these ^'' luandering fires" traced 
upon the crystalline concave of the skies. In an instant the great 
fundamental idea of modern astronomy was born in the mind of 
Galileo. In an instant man's intellectual vision is infinitely extended, 
but his own world, before so great, has shrunk into an atom in the 
midst of infinite space ; has become a younger sister, a comparatively 
insignificant member in a great family of worlds. 

We have all been accustomed to look upon this as the grandest 
moment in the intellectual history of man. But there is another 
moment less known, or if known^ less thought of, because less under- 
stood and less appreciated^ but not less grand. It is that in which 
was born in the mind of man the fundamental idea of geology ; in 
which the idea of other time-worlds besides our own entered the mind 
of the aged Bufi'on. 

For many years, indeed centuries, it had been observed that organic 
remains, particularly marine shells, might be found far inland, and 
even high up the slopes of mountains. There was much speculation 
among scientific men as to the origin of these shells. They were 
attributed by some to the deluge, by others more truly to gradual and 
permanent changes in the relative level of sea and laud. But no one 
for a moment supposed that they belonged to any period anterior to 
the present epoch. Some may have supposed that they were extending 
the known limits of the present epoch, that they were discovering new 
continents in the ocean of time, but never dreamed that these were 
the evidences of a neiu icorld in the infinite abyss of time. Buftbn 
himself had taken active part in these discussions. Finally, near the 
end of the last century, and in the evening of his great and long life, 
a large number of these remains, both marine shells and mammalian 
vertebrates, larger than he had ever examined before, were placed at 
his disposal and subject to his inspection. To his astonishment he 
found them entirely different from species now inhabiting the earth. 
In that moment, in the mind of the venerable Buffon, suddenly, like 
Minerva from the head of Jove, was born the idea of infinite time 
containing successive creations. In an instant man's intellectual 
vision was again infinitely extended ; but his own world again 
dwindled into a single day in the geological history of the earth. 



122 LECTURES 

The whole future of geology was seen in the vision of that moment. 
Filled with awe, the old man, then over 80 years of age, published 
his discovery. In a kind of sacred phrenzy he spoke of the magnifi- 
cence of the prospect, and prophesied of the future glories of this new 
science, which he was, alas, too old to pursue. Thus, to the last, his 
dying hand pointed the way, and his dying voice kindled the enthu- 
siasm of those whom he could no longer lead. 

Picture for a moment to yourself the aged Buffon thus gazing in 
rapture, silent and alone, upon this new world suddenly opened to his 
intellectual vision. I cannot help comparing him to Moses of old on 
the top of Pisgah. Like Moses, he had reached the extreme verge of 
mortal life ; like him, he stood upon a mount, raised far above the 
rest of the world by the eminence of his intellectual position ; like 
him, he gazed with sacred solemn joy, mingled with sadness, upon a 
new world, a promised land, which he was forbidden to enter ; and, 
like him, also, he died there upon the mount, prophesying of the 
future glories of the new land, and calling upon his followers to enter 
in and take possession. 

One more comparison between these two noble sciences : In com- 
paring modern with ancient or even mediasval civilization, nothing 
is more striking or more significant than the difference in the manner 
in which nature is viewed in relation to man. The spirit of the older 
civilization tended to exalt man in his own estimation and to degrade 
nature, while that of modern civilization tends to humiliate by 
insisting upon his insignificance in comparison with the greatness 
of nature. In art this is seen in the gradual but constant increase 
in the contemplation of nature, both in painting and poetry. An 
increasing love of wilderness and mountain, of rock and crag, of cloud 
and sky. In science it is still more distinctly seen in the amazing 
progress of the physical and natural sciences. The mind of man has 
gradually passed from the study and contemplation of itself to the 
study and contemplation of nature. We believe this was a necessary, 
but cannot believe that it is a final change. When, by the study of 
external nature, a true and solid foundation is laid for philosophy, the 
human mind will again return to the study and contemplation of 
itself, as the greatest of nature's works. 

Now, it has already been seen, that among the most efficient agents 
in bringing about this great and necessary change have been the 
sciences of astronomy and geology. Nothing has tended so much to 
humiliate the pride of man as the recognition of the astounding fact 
that Ids habitation, Ms luoiid, is but an atom among millions of simi- 
lar atoms in the boundless realms of space ; and that his time, the 
life of his race, is but a day in the immeasurable cycle of geological 
changes. But there is this great difference between the two sciences, 
that while astronomy leaves man thus humiliated, prostrate, and 
hopeless, geology lifts him up and restores him to his dignity. While 
astronomy gives no evidence of the superiority of the earth to other 
heavenly bodies, or of man above other possible material intelli- 
gences — gives no hint of the superior dignity of our world among 
other space-worlds — geology most distinctly declares the superior 
dignity of our time world, and of our race, among all other time- 



ON COAL. 123 

worlds and their races. She teaches unmlstakeably that there has 
been a gradual course of preparation for the present epoch ; that there 
is an unity of plan in the whole system of time-worlds ; that, in a 
certain sense, they are all satellites to ours ; that they are all bound 
together by a force ; that force the plans of the Almighty, and its 
centre the present epoch. Thus man becomes the centre of the 
universe of time. Thus, also, by analogy we are led to suspect that 
there may be a similar unity in the system of space-worlds also, 
and that ours may, and probably does, enjoy a superiority, if not in 
size at least in organization, and therefore in the intelligence of its 
inhabitants. Thus man's dignity is restored, or rather, I should say, 
dignity is given in place of pride. " Pride goeth before a fall," but 
dignity comes after. 

But it will no doubt be objected by many that the position of a 
science depends not only upon the dignity of its subjects, but also, in 
no small degree, upon the certainty of its conclusions, and that, in 
this respect, astronomy is far superior. But even this is a mistake, 
the result of misconception. Even here the superiority of astronomy 
has been very much exaggerated. Astronomy has its hypotheses and 
uncertainties as well as geology ; and, on the other hand, geology has 
its certainties as well as astronomy ; only it has happened, in this as 
well as in many other cases, that the wisdom of age has given false 
dignity to its errors and follies, while the wildness of youth has dis- 
credited its wisdom. The certainties of astronomy have given an 
appearance of truth to its wildest hypotheses, while the hypotheses of 
geology have unjustly thrown some discredit upon her truest theories 
and most certain iacts. The certainties of astronomy are the form, 
size, weight, distance, and relative position of her space-worlds. Her 
uncertainties are their physical geography, climate, and, more than 
all, their inhabitants, animal and vegetable. The certainties of ge- 
ology are the physical geography, climate, and, more than all, the 
inhabitants, animal and vegetable, of her time-worlds, while her un- 
certainties are their relative size and distance. It is seen, then, that 
the certainties of the one are precisely the uncertainties of the other. 
Which, then, are the nobler — the certainties of astronomy or those 
of geology ? Is it more noble to know the relative size and position 
of worlds in space and time or to be acquainted with the beings 
which form their ciowning glory? It would carry me too far to pur- 
sue this train of thought. Suffice it to say that, in either case, that 
which was most important to know has been rendered most certain ; 
while, also, in both cases, that which is most uncertain is also least 
important to know. 

I have thought this long introduction necessary, because geology is 
so constantly misunderstood. She is looked upon by some with sus- 
picion, as wild in her speculations and uncertain in her conclusions ; 
by others with indifference, as a mass of dry and unattractive detail ; 
and by still others with positive dread, as tending to infidelity. I 
deemed it necessary, therefore, to say a few words in vindication of 
her high rank among the inductive sciences, both in respect to the 
certainty of her conclusions, and, still more, the nobleness of her con- 
ceptions and the absorbing interest of her subjects. . I miffht havje 



124 LECTURES 

gone still further, and vindicated her claim to be considered the chief 
handmaid of religion among the sciences. But this would have led 
me much too far. Thirty years later, and all I have thus far said 
would have been unnecessary. One generation more and geology 
will need no defender ; both her dignity and her religious tendency 
will be universally acknowledged. But for this purpose one more 
generation must first pass away. 

Perhaps it may seem to some of you as a startling paradox, but it 
is nevertheless a fact, that the shortness of human life is one of the 
most powerful elements of human progress. It would seem as if the 
human mind grows and develops, the philosophy and opinions which 
govern the conduct of life continue to be modified and moulded, until 
about the age of twenty-five or thirty, when the character becomes 
unchangeable, opinions become prejudices, and the whole mind, as it 
were, petrified. Further progress would be impossible, but that 
another generation, with minds still plastic, comes forward, takes up 
and carries on the work a few steps, and becomes petrified in its turn. 
There are certainly some noble exceptions to this rule — instances of 
minds which with their maturity retain the plasticity of youth — but 
the very rarity of the exception only proves the rule. 

You doubtless recollect that tlie children of Israel wandered forty 
years in the wilderness before they were fit to enter the promised 
land. The marks of Egyptian bondage were upon their souls as well 
as upon their necks. One generation must fall in the wilderness, and 
a new generation, free from Egyptian prejudices, must arise. We 
are apt to look upon this as an isolated fact in history, and entirely 
characteristic of this peculiar people. On the contrary, it is a fact 
of deepest significance in the philosophy of human progress, and 
intended for the instruction of us all. To this day it seems to be im- 
possible that any great step should be made in the intellectual progress 
of our race, except by the sacrifice of at least one generation. We 
are even now in the midst of such a great change, brought about by 
the revelations of geology. One more generation dropped in the 
wilderness and we are fairly in the promised land. Do not misunder- 
stand me, however, as quai rolling with this conservative spirit; on 
i\\e contrary, this brake upon the wheels of the car of progress seems 
absolutely necessary for its steady motion. 

But I find I am again digressing, and therefore hasten to return to 
my subject. 

I have said that the field of geology is the universe of time. It is 
one of these time-worlds of which I wish to draw a true, though 
necessarily an outline, picture in the next two or three lectures. I 
shall not attempt more than an outline, for this would only tire you 
with a multitucle of details, but shall seize, if possible, the most strik- 
ing features, make a comparison between this and other subsequent 
time-worlds, particularly our own, and endeavor to find the law which 
binds the whole into one system. 

Among the many time-worlds of which geology tells us I select but 
one, viz : the Coal Period. Its position is far back in the pah\3ozoic 
times. Measuring time by space it is in the region of the fixed stars, 
although one of the brightest in the firmament of time. If I could 



ON COAL. 125 

transport yon in imagination to the surface of Sirias ; if I could draw 
a picture of its physical geography, climate, and, more than all, of its 
inhabitants, who in this audience would remain unmoved? Shall 
the interest be less because the separation from us is by time instead 
of space ; because the place is our own earth, and the materials of the 
picture beneath our very feet? 

The coal period is a world distinctly separated from those which 
precede and those which follow it. As in the geographical distribu- 
tion of fauna and flora upon the surface of the earth at the present 
time, we find in some cases contiguous fauna and flora seem to inter- 
penetrate or pass by insensible gradations into one another ; the 
species on the confines of each dying out in number but not in specific 
character, insensibly replaced but not ty-ansmuted. So also in the dis- 
tribution of fauna and flora in time we find some (as, for instance, 
those of the- tertiary) which pass by insensible gradations into one 
another, or interlock with the preceding and succeeding, although 
only by gradual replacement, not by transmutation. But as in 
geographical distribution we also find many fauna and flora com- 
pletely isolated by physical barriers, mountain chains, oceans, or 
deserts, from contiguous fauna and flora, so also in geological dis- 
tribution we find creations are often distinctly separated from other 
creations contiguous in time, by physical barriers in the form of con- 
vulsions of the earth, and marked by broken, dislocated, and upturned 
strata. In the history of the earth there seems to have been many 
such successive creations completely destroyed by convulsions ; in 
other words, the time-worlds are apparently separated by blank 
spaces, whose dimensions we have no means of estimating. Such a 
distinct world is the coal period, with its fauna and flora distinctly 
separated from the old red sandstone which precedes, and still more 
so from the new red sandstone which succeeds. A distinct world — 
completely circumscribed in time — having its own poles and equator. 

Now, in geology, history is recorded upon tablets of stone — stratified 
rocks. Time is represented by their thickness; remarkable events by 
their dislocation ; the fauna and flora by the contained fossils. Let 
us, then, examine the strata which represent this period. 

They are called the "carboniferous strata," and the period the 
" carboniferous period," from the remarkable fact that they contain 
almost all the coal which is found in the world. The deposit of car- 
bonaceous matter is not indeed confined to this period, for it has oc- 
curred in every period of the earth's history, as evidenced by the fact 
that thin seams of coal are found in all the strata. Similar deposits are 
still going on in peat bogs and. deltas of the present day. But the accu- 
mulations of carbon in the strata of which we are speaking are so enor- 
mous, in comparison to those found elsewhere, that the name carbonife- 
rous, as applied to these strata and this period, becomes entirely appro- 
priate. With the single exception of the oolite strata, which belong to 
the secondary period, and in which coal is profitably mined in Virginia 
and in England, all known coal mines belong to the carboniferous 
strata. The knowledge of this simple fact would have saved the 
useless expenditure of millions of dollars, both in this country and 
in England. It is worse than useless to expend money and labor in 



126 LECTURES 

following up signs of coal, unless we are sure we are in tlie region of 
the carboniferous strata. 

The carboniferous strata are subdivided into two very distinct groups, 
representing, of course, distiuctsubdivisionsof the carboniferous period. 
These are called lower and upper carboniferous, or the mountain lime- 
stone, and the "coal measures." The former are mostly limestone, 
the latter mostly shales and sandstone ; the one mostly of marine 
origin, the other mostly fresh water ; the fossils of the one are mostly 
marine animals, of the other terrestrial vegetation. I shall confine 
myself entirely to the latter, or the true ^^coal measures," as they are 
called, from the fact that ninety-nine hundredths of all the coal in the 
world are found in them. 

You will observe, then, that I have taken for my subject one-half 
of the carboniferous period. The carboniferous is itself but one of the 
four great subdivisions of the palre'zoic period^ and the palfBzoic period, 
in its turn, only one of the four great epochs, exclusive of the present, 
into which the history of our earth is divided. You see, then, that 
the period of which I wish to give you a rapid sketch is less than 
one-thirtieth part of the recorded history of the earth ; yet the average 
thickness of these strata is about 3,000 or 4,000 feet. In Wales they 
are 12,000 feet thick, and in Nova Scotia nearly 15,000. If, then, 
thickness of strata represent length of time, how great must be the 
lapse of time represented by the coal measures. 

Such being the enormous thickness of the coal measures, it neces- 
sarily follows that but a very small proportion of the mass consists of 
coal. The coal strata consist of thick beds of limestone, sandstone, 
ironstone, and shale, containing thin seams of coal, and this alterna- 
tion sometimes many times repeated in the same locality ; the whole 
forming a series like the sheets of a ream of paper, arranged in no 
discoverable rational order, but indiscriminately alternating. The 
seam of coal will sometimes be covered with a stratum of limestone, 
sometimes of standstone, and sometimes of shale ; although it rarely 
happens that the sandstone or limestone comes directly in contact 
with the coal ; but is generally separated by a stratum, sometimes 
very thin, of shale or slate. In fact a stratum of clay or fine mud 
rock both underlies and overlies each seam. Below it forms the "fire 
clay," and above the black slate of the miners. 

F.ff. 1. J have said that the order is various in different parts of 
the same alternating series ; but in every part of the same 
coal field the alternation is the same for the same part of 
the series. In other words, each stratum is generally 
horizontally extended over the whole coal field in a con- 
tinuous sheet, so that each seam is accompanied by the 
same strata above and below. This is a fact of great 
importance, as it affords the readiest means of determining 
the identity of individual coal seams. 

Coal strata, like all other sedimentary deposits, were at 
the time of formation horizontal, or nearly so. Sometimes 
they are found nearly in this their original position, as in 
many of the coal fields of our own country. More generally this 
original horizontality has been disturbed by igneous agency, and the 



Sh.. 


-"^—-^^ 






Sd... 




L. .. 

Sh.. 
S. .. 

s. .. 




Sh.. 
Sh .. 


■mr^ 


L. .. 




S. .. 
L. .. 


-=^«^— ^ 


Sh.. 


JZ—Z — 






Sh.. 







ON COAL. 



127 



coal strata are found in the form of basins. Sometimes the strata are 
so folded as to give rise to series of basins belons^ing to tbe same 



Pig. 2. 



Fi?. 3. 




original field. "Whether, however, the strata retain their original 
horizontality, or are thrown into basins by igneous agency, seldom or 
never do we find the whole of the original mass deposited. A large 
portion has been carried away by aqueous agency. Frrm this cause 
a large coal field, covering many thousands of square miles, may exist 
only in the form of isolated mountains or detached basins of coal 
strata, as in the accompanying figures, where all the mass represented 



Fig. 4. 



Fig. 5. 




FiS. 6. 




by tbe dotted lines has been carried away by denuding agencies. 
Thus, for instance, nearly the whole of Illinois was originally occupied 
by a vast coal field, but little disturbed by igneous agency, but by far 
the larger portion of the coal strata of this immense field was carried 
away by denuding agencies. 

You will observe, then, the striking difierence in mode of occur- 
rence between metallic ores and coal. The former are associated with 
rocks of every age, except, perhaps, the tertiary ; the latter almost 
exclusively confined to those of a particular age. The former exist 
in the form of veins intersecting the strata, the latter in the form of 
seams parallel with the strata. The former extend indefinitely down- 
wards, the latter horizontally. The former are the result of igneous 
agency, the latter of sedimentary deposit. Ignorance of this simple 
but radical difierence has been the cause of much pecuniary loss, and 
seems not yet entirely eradicated. When, for instance, some years ago 
it was rumored in the streets of Philadelphia that the bottom of the 
Mauch Chunk Summit mine was reached, there was an universal panic, 
and stocks in coal mines went down enormously, not knowing that the 
continuation of coal seams was to be looked ibr horizontally rather 
than vertically. 

This simple rule, when taken in connexion with the one previously 
enunciated, viz: that a coal seam throughout its whole extent is 
attended both above and below by the same strata, would render the 
identification of coal seams, and the tracing ot them across valleys 
from hillside to hillside, a matter of little difficulty, were it not for 



128 



LECTURES 



dislocation of tlie strata, producing what are called faults, slips, or 
troubles. In tlie accompanying figures, for instance, the strata have 



Fig. 7. 



Fig. 8. 




been displaced hj the elevation of one part of the field more than 
another. This is not conspicuous on the surface, because all has been 
cut down to one level by aqueous agencies. The supposed configura- 
tion of surface immediately after such unequal elevation is represented 
by the dotted outline ; the strong line represents the present configu- 
ration of surface. All between these, therefore, represents the 
amount of matter carried away by denuding agencies. These faults 
occur very often in coal fields, and are a source of serious annoyance 
to the miner. 

I have taken here the simplest case of dislocation. The difficulty 
becomes very much greater when, instead of being horizontal, the 
strata are highly and variously inclined. In such cases the skill and 
knov^ledge of the geologist is often tasked to the utmost. 

I have said that while metallic veins extend indefinitely downwards, 
coal scams for the most part are extended horizontally, or nearly so. 
Sometimes, however, coal seams may appear, like metallic veins, to 
extend downwards. This is the case in highly inclined and particu- 
larly in vertical strata, as in the accompanying sketch of the anthracite 
coal field of Pennsylvania. In such cases, however, as well as in 



Fig. 9. 




every other, it will be observed that the seams are strictly parallel 
with the strata, that the strata have been elevated to a vertical posi- 
tion by igneous agency, and the included coal seams have been raised 
with them, still maintaining their relative position. 

The thickness of coal seams varies from a few lines to many feet ; 
sometimes they exist as sheets as thin as paper, in others in masses 30 
or 40 feet thick. A single seam of pure coal, however, is seldom more 
than 6 or 8 feet thick. It is true that in France and in the anthracite 
region of Pennsylvania they are said to occur 60 or 70 feet thick, or 
even more, but upon close examination such mammoth seams will be 
found to consist of two or more seams, separated by thin laminas of 
slate ; too thin, however, to form a roof, and, therefore^ the several 
seams are wrought together as one. 

The number of seams occurring in one locality and separated by 
interstratified sandstone and shale is sometimes as great as one 
hundred, and their aggregate thickness one hundred and fifty feet. 
Enormous as is this mass of carbonaceous matter, it is but a small 
fraction of the entire mass of the coal strata. The thickest and purest 



ON COAL. 



129 



seams are generally near the middle of tkis series ; as if tlie conditions 
necessary for the formation of coal had gradually come into existence 
and as gradually disappeared ; that there were two poles and an 
equator belonging to this time-world — a morn, noon^ and evening to 
this geological day. 

We have spoken thus far only of the thickness of coal strata and of 
coal seams ; but it is impossible to form a correct idea of the amount 
of matter contained in these strata or in these seams without taking 
into account also their horizontal extent. Coal is very widely dis- 
tributed over the world,, although some countries are more favored 
than others. England, France, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Sweden, 
Poland, and Russia have their beds of coal. It is also found abun- 
dantly in Asia, Africa, and South America ; but no where is the coal 
formation more extensively displayed than in the United States, and 
no where are its beds of greater thickness, more convenient for work- 
ing, or of more valuable quality. There are within the limits of the 
United States no less than four coal fields of enormous dimensions. 
One of these, the Appalachian coal field, commences on the north, in 
Pennsylvania and Ohio, sweeping south through western Virginia 



Ur.S. (j£ A-merica. 

CoalArea 
103500 S^.Miles 




Brit . Amer. '; Gr. Brit . 

18000 i 11860 

Sy. 771 \ S(f.Tn 



Spaia 

3±08 



a ° 



France Belgiom 

1719 5L8 

Sff-Tih Sq,.Tn< 



and eastern Kentucky, Tennessee, extends even into Alabama. Its 
area is estimated at about 60,000 square miles. A second occupies 
the greater portion of Illinois and Indiana ; in extent almost equal to 

* Recent estimates by Marcou and by H. D. Rodgers make the coal area of the United 
States near 200,000 square miles. 

9 s 



130 



LECTURES 



the Appalachian. A third covers the greater portion of Missouri, while 
a fourth occupies the greater portion of Michigan Just out ot the 
limits of the United States, in New Brunswick and Nova bcotia there 
is still a fifth, occupying, according to Mr. Lyell, an area ot 36,000 
square miles. Besides these there are several others oi less extent. 

If we now compare the relative coal areas of the principal coal pro- 
ducing countries, the superiority of our own will he still conspicuous. 
The following diagrams represent these relative areas m a more m- 
telligihle form than could he done hy mere figures. 

But if, on the other hand, we compare in the same manner the 
relative annual production of the same countries, we will find the 
order very different. 



Fig. n. 



Great Britain 

ArunxLctlFro diiettorv 
3L500.0002S7^s 



Belgium 

4.960.000 
Tbns 



Umted States 

4.400.OOO 
Jons 



Erance 

4141.600 
Tons 



It will be seen that the annual production of coal in Great Britain 
is more than seven times that of the United States although her coal 
area is so much less. It is estimated that even at this enormous rate 
of production the coal fields of Great Britain will yet last for 500 
vears. There is little danger, then, that ours will fail us shortly. 

Now industry, as the hasis of the organization of society, forms the 
distinguishing feature of modern civilization. Coal is the very aliment 
of industry. The material prosperity of any country may therefore 
he tolerably accurately estimated by the amount of coal consumed. 



ON COAL. 131 

According to this method of estimation, Great Britain is superior to 
all other countries in actual material civilization. But if the con- 
sumption of coal is a measure of the actuau civilization of a country, 
the amount of coal area represents its 2yotential civilization. How far 
are we superior to all other countries in this respect ! What a glorious 
destiny awaits us in the future — a destiny already predetermined in 
the earliest geological history of the earth. 

One more remark and I am done. It is certain that, as manu- 
facturing and productive industry take root and flourish almost ex- 
clusively in cjol and temperate climates, so also in them do the coal 
formations prevail in the greatest abundance. Oar scientific maps 
and investigations confirm the one, and national statistics the other. 
Almost all the true coal of the world is found in the north temperate 
zone. Thus the climates which are most congenial to laborious occu- 
pations, the latitudes best adapted to the vigorous growth of industrial 
civilization, are precisely those where, fortunately, have been placed 
the materials of labor, the aliment of industry. Fortunately did I 
say? No; this has not been the result of blind chance, but oi 
deliberate providential design. We have here a sublime illustration 
of that all-comprehensive foreknowledge which foresees and designs 
the end from the beginning ; of that immutability which changes not, 
but only unfolds its eternal plans ; of that unity in the system of 
time-worlds of which I have already spoken, our own epoch being the 
sun and centre. 

THEORIES OF THE COAL. 

There is no point connected with the coal which has been the 
subject of so much discussion as the manner of its accumulation. At 
first view, existing nature seems to offer no analogy to guide us in 
our attempts to account for such enormous accumulations of carbona- 
ceous matter. It is admitted, however, I believe, on all hands, that 
the deposit must have taken place in water. The perfect preservation 
of the carbon of the plants, and often of their external forms and 
structure, which must have suffered complete oxydation and disinte- 
gration if exposed to the air, the fact that the plants were most or all 
of them swamp plants, and, more than all, the alternation of coal 
seams with sedimentary deposits of clay and sand, all seem to point 
unmistakably to water as the preserving agent. There is still 
another evidence which I think has generally been overlooked. In 
the midst of the more structureless bituminous matter of the coal are 
often found imbedded wedge-shaped masses of vascular tissue called 
native carbon. No one who attentively examines these wedges can 
fail to perceive that they are the wooden wedges of exogens separated 
by the decomposition of the softer cellular tissue of the intervening 
medullary rays, while they floated as logs upon the water and finally 
became imbedded in the carbonaceous mud below. 

Thus far I believe all theorists agree. But from this point opinions 
diverge ; some geologists holding that the coal was deposited on the 
spot where the plants grew, others that the plants were drifted in the 



132 LE-DTUEES 

form of rafts to great distances and deposited at the mouths of rivers ; 
the former, that a coal basin is the site of an ancient peat bog, th© 
latter, that it is the position of an ancient estuary or delta. The 
former opinion is called the ^^ peat hog theory," the latter the 
" estuoA'y theory." 

Peat hog theory. — It is well known that in many countries, par- 
ticularly in moist, cool climates, and damp, low grounds, certain 
plants, such as ferns, mosses, &c., as well as trees which delight in 
moist places, if allowed to grow undisturbed from generation to 
generation will, by their decay, accumulate enormous masses of car- 
bonaceous matter. Such a spot is called a peat hog. The theory of 
this accumulation is as follows : Plants derive all their carbon from 
the atmosphere. In the annual fall of leaf, and finally their own 
death, they return to the earth the whole of the matter thus silently 
extracted irom the air. Undisturbed vegetation, therefore, constantly 
enriches the soil by adding to it what has been taken from the air. 
Thus worn out lands improve by lying fallow. Thus the rich black 
vegetable mould found covering the ground in forests continues to 
increase from year to year. In all ordinary cases, however, there is 
a limit beyond which this accumulation will not go. By decom- 
position the organic matter is again returned to the atmosphere as 

: fast as it accumulates. But if by any means this decomposition is 

<:prevented the organic matter accumulates indefinitely. This is 
precisely what takes place in peat bogs. The presence of water 
in a great measure prevents the oxydation of the carbon. The 
growth of plants now continually takes carbon from the atmosphere, 
their death as continually deposits it upon the earth. Each genera- 

-tion rises, phoenix-like, from the ashes of the last, to become in its 
turn soil for the next. Thus the ancestral accumulation continues 
to increase, the funeral pile continues to rise, until pure carbonaceous 
matter may in time accumulate to the depth of thirty or forty feet. 

. Such a mass of carbonaceous matter deprived of its water and com- 
pressed to the density of coal, would make a seam of perhaps three 

■ or four feet in thickness. Now, according to the peat bog theory, it 
is under such circumstances that the carbon of a coal seam has been 

; accumulated. 

The arguments in favor of this theory are : 1st. The purity of the 

. coal. It is true that coal is often found largely mixed with earthy 
matter or mud. As we have already shown, every stage of gradation 

i may be traced between pure coal and pure shale. But by far the 
larger portion of coal seems to be entirely free from foreign matter. 

' The amount of ash is not greater than five to ten per cent. ; that is, 
not greater than might arise from the earthy matter of the plants 
Irom which the coal was derived. This purity of the coal indicates 
complete absence of sediment in the water in which the coal was 
originally laid down. Now the water of peat swamps, though dis- 

. colored by organic matter in solution, is always entirely free from 
sediment. In fact, this seems a necessary condition of the growth of 
peat plants — an incursion of water containing mud is fatal to such 
plants. If, then, a coal seam is the result of carbonaceous matter 



ON COAL. 133 

slowly accumulated at the bottom of ancient peat swamps, tlie purity 
of the coal is completely accounted for. But if, on the contrary, it is 
formed by the accumulation of timber carried down to the mouths of 
great rivers during freshets, it should always be largely mised with 
mud. 

2d. The fine preservation of the tenderest and most delicate parts 
of plants. We have already spoken of the profusion of finely- 
preserved leaves and entire fronds of ferns in the black slate overlying 
a coal seam. So perfect is this preservation that large and complex 
fronds are often entirely unbroken, and even the minutest variation 
of the leaves as distinct as in the living fern. This fine preservation 
of tender parts seems strongly to indicate that these leaves had fallen 
gently from the parent stem, and been preserved on the spot where 
they fell. It seems utterly inconsistent with the violent action of 
currents bearing rafts to great distances. 

3d. The position of the finely-preserved leaves, &c., always on the 
opper surface of the coal seam, (roof of the coal mine.) Precisely 
the same is observed in every peat swamp. The perfect leaves are to 
be found only on top, for the plain reason that these are the last 
fallen, and therefore not yet disorganized. But in the case of accu- 
mulations of vegetable matter at the mouths of rivers, there seems to 
be no reason why leaves should not be entangled in all parts alike. 

4th. Coal, like peat, is composed of completely disorganized carbo- 
naceous matter, containing fragments in which vegetable structure is 
more distinct. This is not inconsistent with what I have already 
said in my last lecture of the vegetable origin of even the most 
structureless coal being detectable by the microscope. Plants are 
composed entirely of cells. Both in peat and in coal these cells are 
generally separated from one another. The vegetable structure is 
completely disorganized, but the separate cells still bear unmistakable 
marks of their origin ; the organic structure is gone, but the organic 
origin is still visible. But if a coal seam was an imbedded raft, it 
should be composed almost entirely of fragments of trunks, branches, 
&c., instead of a structureless mass containing only a few such 
fragments. 

5th. It will be recollected that a seam of coal is overlaid by black 
slate and underlaid by fire-clay. In the black slate, as already said, 
are found the finest impressions of leaves and other tender parts ; in 
the Jire-day, which underlies the coal seam, are found imbedded in 
the greatest abundance the roots of plants, and not unfrequently the 
stumps of trees with the roots attached, precisely as they grow. And, 
what is still more remarkable and significant, trunks of trees are not 
unfrequently found almost entire, standing erect, with their roots still 
bedded in the fire-clay, their trunks passing through the seam, and 
far into the overlying strata of shale and limestone. By means of 
evidence of this kind Lyell and Dawson have been able to make out 
distinctly nearly 60 planes of successive vegetation in the coal field of 
Nova Scotia. In many of these, viz: about 20, the trees are slill in 
the position in which they grew, as shown in figure 12 ; of the rest 
the evidence consisted in the imbedded stigmaria or roots of sigil- 
laria. 



134 



LECTUEES 




Fig. 12. In tlie cases in which these 

trunks and roots, in situ, are 
found, (and they are by no 
means uncommon,) the evidence 
is conclusive that the coal was 
formed on the spot where the 
trees grew; in other words, that 
the growth of the trees and the 
deposit of the coal took place 
simultaneously on the same spot. 
This is clearly impossible in an 
estuary, but is known to take 
place in every peat swamp. 
To recapitulate the whole argument : If we examine a peat bog 
which has been for many years thickly overgrown with ferns, mosses, 
and water plants of various kinds, and shaded by many large trees, 
we find the soil composed entirely of black carbonaceous matter, 
wholly destitute of structure but revealing its vegetable origin to the 
microscope, containing fragments of trunks and branches of trees 
lying in all possible positions, some prostrate, some inclined at all 
angles, many, both living and dead, still erect, their roots firmly fixed 
in the clay at the bottom of the bog, below the peaty matter which 
has slowly gathered about their lower parts, and over the whole lie 
thickly strewn the freshly fallen leaves. Now suppose such a peat 
bog to be deeply buried beneath the surface of water and overwhelmed 
with sediment of clay and sand, and again, after ages, elevated and 
exposed by section to the scrutiny of the geologist, and we shall have 
a complete reproduction of the phenomena of a coal seam. 

The great, and almost the only, objection which has been urged against 
this theory is to be found, not in the phenomena of an individual coal 
seam, but rather in the general phenomena of coal basins, in the re- 
peated alternation in the same locality of coal seams with marine and 
fresh water strata. We have already seen that there are in the same 
coal basin sometimes as many as an hundred coal seams, one above the 
other ; now, according to this theory, when the coal seam was forming 
the spot must have been above the surface of the sea, but when the inter- 
stratified limestones and shales were being deposited the same spot 
must have been beneath the sea-level. Thus^ argues the objector, we 
are driven to the enormous assumption that the same spot has been 
successively upheaved above and depressed beneath the sea-level one 
hundred times during the carboniferous period, and, what is still 
more remarkable, that every time it rose above the sea it became a 
peat swamp ; or if the intervening strata are fresh water instead of 
marine, the difficulty seems only to be increased. 

Estuary theory. — It is to meet this very difficulty, to account 
for this remarkable alternation of strata, that the rival theory has 
been proposed. An estuary is the wide open mouth of a river empty- 
ing into a tidal sea ; it is occupied sometimes by fresh and sometimes 
by salt water. The deposit at the bottom of an estuary, in suitable 
positions, is, therefore, an alternation of fresh water and marine strata. 
In seasons of freshets the river water^ loaded with sediment and 



ON COAL. • 135 

perhaps bearing rafts of drift titaber, forces back the sea water, occu- 
pies the estuary, and makes its deposit of clay and sand, containing 
fragments of such drift timber; in seasons of low water the ocean 
returns and makes its deposit^ perhaps of limestone, and so on alter- 
nately. A coal field is supposed by these theorists to be the position 
of an ancient estuary ; the limestone strata are the marine deposit, 
the shale and sandstone the river deposit, and the coal seam the 
imbedded drift timber brought down by the river from distant forests. 

The objections to this theory are all that has been said in favor of 
the peat bog theory. The pureness of the coal, the fine preservation 
of even the tenderest parts of plants, the position of such well pre- 
served specimens always on the upper surface of a coal seam, the 
structureless character of the great mass of the coal, and, above all, 
stumps and trunks of trees still erect, with their roots still fixed in 
the clay stratum below — all this seems not only unaccountable but 
impossible on this theory. 

In comparing these two theories it will be seen that the first ex- 
plains completely the phenomena of an individual coal seam, but 
signally fails to explain the general phenomena of a coal basin, viz : 
the alternation of coal seam with marine and fresh water strata ; while, 
on the other hand, the second explains well this alternation, but fails 
utterly to explain the phenomena of an individual coal seam. There 
is, then, real and substantial evidence in favor of each, and equally 
substantial objections. If this had not been the case one or the other 
would have been relinquished ere this. But we find, on the contrary, 
that they have both found strenuous advocates from the time geology 
commenced to exist as a science until now. In every such case of 
vitality in rival theories it will be found, I think, that there is a real 
germ of truth in both — that both are true and both are false ; both 
true in some sense, and therefore reconcilable ; and both false through 
narrowness of view, through exclusiveness, through mistaking a par- 
tial for a general view. I can best illustrate my meaning by referring 
you to the familiar but very instructive fable of the shield, which 
being distinctly seen by two knights of equally good eye sight and of 
undoubted veracity, was declared by one to be white and by the other 
to be black. You will recollect that, after several lances were broken 
and many wounds and bruises endured to decide the knotty point, it 
was discovered by some one who, strange to say, was more interested 
in the truth than in the dispute, that one side ivas ivhite and the other 
was black. The disputants were both right and both wrong, but 
wrong only by exclusiveness, by mistaking a partial for a general 
view. So it is with almost all vexed questions. There is truth on 
both sides, but both err in excluding the other. We are seeking in 
the right direction when we attempt to show the partialness of both 
views. We have risen to a higher view, to a philosophic truth, when 
we show that these two partial and apparently irreconcilable views 
may be united into one ; these two surface views may be stereoscopi- 
cally combined. 

There is an old and much quoted adage, that " truth lies in the mid- 
dle" between extreme opinions. As generally understood nothing 



136 * LECTURES 

can be more false or hurtful. Through its influence a merely timid 
or temporizing policy is mistaken for wisdom, the "fence man" is 
mistaken for the philosopher. There is another old adage, that 
'■^extremes meet;" i. e., what to the superficial observer seem to be 
extremes, to the deeper thinker are often really closely allied. But 
the converse of this proposition, though not erected into an adage, is 
even more profoundly true, viz : that what seem to be closely allied 
are very often real extremes. There is often a superficial resemblance 
between the highest and the lowest, so that by the unthinking multi- 
tude the one is often mistaken for the other ; pride for nobility of soul, 
humility for mean-spiritedness, the serenity of self-command for the 
serenity of insensibility, &c. It is only in this way that the " fence 
man" resembles the philosopher_, for they are as wide apart as the 
poles. It is in tliis way only that truth seems to " lie in the middle," 
although we are further from it there than anywhere else. To refer 
again to the fable of the shield : It would have been a poor solution 
of the famous dispute to say that the shield was neither pure white 
nor pure black, but midway between the two extremes ; that it was, 
in fact, some shade of gray or dusky, or, perhaps, pepper and salt. 
No; I repeat, truth lies not "in the middle," but the reconciliation of 
extremes in the harmonious combination of apparent antagonisms. 

Now, it seems to me that the phenomena of a coal seam already 
enumerated prove most conclusively that the coal was formed in situ, 
as in the peat swamps of the present day. At the same time the fre- 
quent alternation of seams with marine and fresh water strata prove 
also most conclusively that the deposit took place at the raouths of 
rivers. Here are two incontestible facts. We must put them to- 
gether ; we must combine them if we would make a true and sufficient 
theory. I believe the more this subject is reflected on the more we 
shall be convinced that coal was deposited in peat swamps at the mouths 
of large rivers, and therefore subject to overflows by the river and 
occasional inundations by the sea. We are to look for analogies in 
existing nature, not among the bogs of Ireland, but among the river 
swamps of the Mississippi. 

It is well known that such peat swamps, some of them of enormous 
extent, exist now on the margins and in the delta of the Mississippi 
and probably many other large rivers, and that pure peat unmixed 
with mud is constantly forming in these swamps^, although they are 
annually flooded by the river. This seems at first incredible, when 
we recollect that the river water is Iciaded with sediment, and that 
sediment prevents the growth of peat plants, or at least would entirely 
destroy the purity of the peat. . But this apparent anomaly has been 
entirely explained by Mr. Lyell. According to this high authority, 
although the peat swamps of the Mississippi are annually flooded by 
river water they are entirely untouched by river mud. These favored 
spots are surrounded, particularly on the side next the river, by dense 
vegetation, which, acting as a sieve, completely strains the water of 
its mud before it reaches the peat swamp. The water of these swamps 
is therefore pure, and pure peat has been quietly depositing there for 
ages. 



ON COAL. 



137 




Let us now suppose that 
there existed during the 
carboniferous period a large 
river, perhaps less than the 
Mississippi, but with enor- 
mous swamps and delta, 
overgrown with rank vege- 
tation far surpassing in 
luxuriance anything we 
know at the present day. 
In the midst of such swamps 
there would evidently occur 
spots of great extent, the 
waters of which, for the 
reasons already mentioned, would never be contaminated with sedi- 
ment, as at (a) fig. 13. Here for untold ages pure carbonaceous matter 
would accumulate undisturbed. In the course of time the surround- 
ing portions of the swamps (b) where the mud is detained would rise 
by deposit of sediment, while the peat swamp (a) would remain as a 
sunken country, such as exist now in the swamps of the Mississippi. 
Finally, at uncertain intervals, a more than usually large freshet, or 
perhaps some change in the level of the land, would deluge the swamp 
with mud and bury the peat. Gradually the vegetation would re- 
turn, and the former condition of things be restored, to pass again 
through the same changes. We have but one other supposition to 
make, viz : that the whole river swamp and delta were gradually sub- 
siding during the whole carboniferous period. This is by no means 
a violent supposition, but one which we have a right in this case to 
make for two good reasons : 1st. We have the best evidence that 
many of the large deltas of the present day are thus subsiding. This 
is proved in the case of the Mississippi delta by cypress stumps in situ 
below the level of the sea. 2d. The coal strata themselves give indu- 
bitable evidence of gradual subsidence during the period of their de- 
posit. The character of these strata and their fossils shows that they 
were deposited in shallow water, but their enormous thickness (nearly 
three miles in Nova Scotia) renders this clearly impossible^ unless we 
suppose such subsidence ; for, if the bottom was stationary, it must 
have been three miles below the surface of the water when the lowest 
stratum was deposited. Now, if such subsidence went on constantly, 
but slowly, so that, under ordinary circumstances, the delta could be 
maintained by deposit from the river^ but at uncertain intervals, more 
rapidly than the river could build up, so that the sea would again 
usurp possession and make its deposit of limestone, and again more 
slowly^ so that the area might again be reclaimed by the river, and 
become a peat swamp, and so on alternately, we should easily, with- 
out any violent hypothesis, account for all the phenomena of a coal 
basin. 

It will be observed that by this hypothesis the area of a coal basin 
has, indeed, been successively above and below the sea-surface, but 
not by successive upheaval and depression, as it has been supposed 
necessary on the peat bog theory, but by the contention, with various 



138 LECTURES 

success, of opposing forces, aqueous and igneous, the river constantly- 
building up, and igneous forces beneath as constantly striving to de- 
press ; sometimes one force predominating, sometimes the other. Of 
such contention we have many instances in existing nature. It is 
evidently going on in the delta of the Mississippi at the present time. 

It may not be possible, in the present condition of science, to picture 
to ourselves all the circumstances connected with this process. Per- 
haps I have already gone too far in this attempt ; but the general 
facts upon which the theory rest are incontestible. Coal has almost 
certainly accumulated m situ in extensive peat swamps at the mouths 
of large rivers, upon ground which was slowly subsiding during the 
whole period. Under these circumstances it seems not difficult to 
account for all the phenomena of a coal basin. All we have to do in 
future is by study of the peat swamp of the Mississippi and the phe- 
nomena of delta deposit to discover the details of the process, to fill 
up the outline of the picture. 

There is a fact noticed by Mr. Lyell, which is strongly confirmatory 
of this theory. In the sandstone of the coal measures it is common 
to find trunks of trees, but only trunks — no small branches, leaves, or 
tender jjarts. Moreover these trunks are observed to be mostly pines, 
highland trees, while the trunks in the coal seam proper are sigilla- 
ria, lepidodendron, calamites — swamp trees. Now, when we recollect 
that coarse sandstone is the deposit of rapid current, does it not seem 
evident that the sandstone was deposited by the freshet which over- 
whelmed the peat swamp, and that the pine trunks are the remains 
of drift timber brought from the highlands. Here, then, we have 
ancient drift timber, but how different from a coal seam ! 

Let us now attempt to estimate approximatively the time necessary 
to bring about these stupendous results. I believe we should never 
neglect an opportunity of this kind, because the popular mind has not 
yet grasped the idea of illimitable time required by geology to the 
same extent as it has the idea of illimitable space required by 
astronomy; and, as I believe, this is one of the greatest difficulties 
with which geology has to contend. 

According to Boussingault luxuriant vegetation at the present day 
takes from the atmosphere about a half ton of carbon per acre annu- 
ally, or 50 tons per acre in a century. Fifty tons of carbon of the 
specific gravity of coal, about 1.50, spread evenly over the surface of 
an acre, would make a layer of less than \ of an inch. Humboldt 
makes the estimate a little higher, viz : \ an inch. We are willing 
to take the higher estimate. It appears, then, that if all the carbon 
taken from the air was preserved in the form of coal, our most luxu- 
riant vegetation would make but a \ inch of coal in a century. But 
in the coal measures the aggregate thickness of the coal seams in the 
same basin is sometimes 150 feet or more. In 150 feet there are 
1,800 inches, or 3,600 half inches. At the present rate of vegetation, 
then, it would take 3,600 centuries, or 360,000 years^ to accumulate 
this amount. But it will be objected that the vegetation of the coal 
period was probably m jch more luxuriant than the present, and the 
tendency of this difference would be to shorten the time. True ; but 
it will be recollected that this estimate was made upon the ground 



ON COAL. 139 

that all the carbon was preserved. This is in the highest degree im- 
probable, not to say impossible. Probably much more than half was 
returned to atmosphere in the form of carbonic acid and carburetted 
hydrogen. Again, we have taken no account of the enormous periods 
of time during which there was no carbon deposited on the spot in 
question, and represented by the intervening strata of limestone, 
sandstone, and shale. The estimate we have given above, therefore, 
probably falls very far short of the truth. Let us try another. 

According to Messrs. Lyell and Dawson the coal strata of Nova 
Scotia are about three miles in thickness at the South Joggins. At 
another point, nearly 100 miles distant, (Albion mines,) they found 
the thickness nearly the same. There is little danger, therefore, of 
erring on the side of excess, if we take the average thickness of the 
strata over the whole basin at one and a half miles. Now, the area 
of this coal field, according to Mr. Lyell, is about 3,600 square miles. 
This would give, as the solid contents of these strata, 54,000 cubic 
miles. But we have already seen that this enormous amount of mat- 
ter was almost certainly accumulated at the mouth of a great river. 
Let us see how long it would take one of our great rivers to do the 
work. I shall select for this purpose the Mississippi and the Ganges, 
because they are both very large rivers, carrying vast amounts of 
sediment, and because accurate observations have been made as to the 
amount of sediment brought down by them. These observations have 
been made upon the Mississippi by Drs. Forshay and Reddell, of New 
Orleans, and by Captain Strachey, British engineer, upon the Ganges. 
According to these observations it would take the Mississippi 2,000,000 
years, and the Ganges* 3*75,000 years to perform the work. And yet 
the period we are now discussing is probably not one-thirtieth, cer- 
tainly but a small portion of the entire geological history of the earth. 

It will no doubt be objected to this estimate that it is founded upon 
a particular theory, and this theory may be incorrect, and the estimate 
thus falls to the ground. In answer to this objection it is only neces- 
sary to state that we are acquainted with no other circumstances under 
which strata accumulate so rapidly as at the mouths of rivers. Any 
other conceivable theory, therefore, would only increase the time. 

Again, it will probably be objected that the agencies of nature may 
have been and probably were more active in earlier periods of the his- 
tory of the earth than now. Such a notion, although almost universal 
among intelligent people and very prevalent even among geologists, 
is, as it seems to me, utterly without foundation in reason. In refer- 
ence to this point geologists may be divided into two classes. The 
first and most numei'ous class hold that the agencies of nature have 
gradually decreased in activity from the earliest times until now. The 
other, to which Mr. Lyell and his followers belong, believes that these 
agencies have acted much as they do now through all time ; that there 
has been no progressive change of any kind, neither in the earth nor 
its inhabitants. Now, it seems to me that it can be proved, or at 

* This amaziiiff difference in favor of a smaller river is due to the fact that the Ganges, 
being- a tropical river, the rains all i'all during six months, and are therefore very heavy. The 
washing of the soil and resulting sediment are necessarily in proportion. The mountainous 
country in which the Ganges takes its rise contributes also to the same result. 



140 LECTURES 

least rendered extremely probable, that neither of these theorists is 
in the right ; that, in fact, while the igneous agencies have been de- 
creasing in activity, the aqueous have been constantly increasing in 
the same proportion. As I believe I differ from all other geologists in 
my views on this pointy I deem it important to go a little more fully 
into this subject. 

It is generally admitted by geologists, and indeed there is good and 
substantial evidence of the fact, that the earth has been gradually cool- 
ing throughout all geological history from an original very high tem- 
perature. We have also, as I believe most geologists will admit, good 
and substantial evidence that the land has constantly increased both 
in extent and in elevation with the course of time, while the ocean has 
as constantly decreased in extent in the same proportion. In other 
words, these two elements, land and water, have been, as it were, 
gradually differentiated. Admit these two points and all the rest 
logically follow. 

The activity of igneous agencies depends upon the internal temper- 
ature of the earth. As this has constantly decreased the igneous 
agencies have also decreased in energy in the same proportion. The 
aqueous agencies, on the other hand, are the result of currents of air 
and water upon the surface of the earth ; and the rapidity of these 
currents depends, not upon the mean surface temperature, but upon 
the difference of temperature in different parts of the surface ; *. e. , 
between pole and equator or between land and water. It only remains 
to prove, then, that this difference of temperature has been constantly 
increasing with the course of time. 

Land, as is well known, is both a better absorber and a better radi- 
ator of heat than water ; i. e. , will both heat faster and cool faster 
under given circumstances than water. A globe of land would be both 
hotter at the equator and colder at the poles than a globe covered with 
water and exposed to the same influences. Although the mean tem- 
perature would be nearly the same in the two cases, the difference of 
temperature would be much greater in the former than in the latter. 
It follows, therefore, that as the extent of land increased and that of 
the ocean decreased with the course of time the difference of tempera- 
ture between pole and equator must have increased in the same proportion. 
The gradual decrease of the mean temperature would evidently contri- 
bute to the same result; for it is evident that with a higher mean temper- 
ature a larger portion of water would exist in the form of vapor. This 
excessive vapor would rise into the atmosphere and become condensed 
into universal clouds, mist or fogs, but seldom, and to a very limited ex- 
tent, in the earlier periods of the earth's history, into rat'w, because, as 
yet, there were neither extensive high land nor cool currents sufficient 
for extensive precipitation. Thus would result a thick, murky atmo- 
sphere, enveloping the whole earth. The necessary effect of this would 
be still further to prevent absorption of heat at the equator and radiation 
at the poles, and thus to produce still greater uniformity of climate. 
In the earliest geological periods, therefore, when the surface temper- 
ature^ iv ova internal causes, v/as very great, and the ocean almost uni- 
versal, the difference of temperature between pole and equator was 
reduced to a minimum. In such a condition of things it is evident 



ON COAL. 141 

that tlie exchange between pole and equator currents of the aqueous 
and aerial ocean must have been not only very sluggish hut perfectly 
regular northeast and southwest currents in the northern hemi- 
sphere, and northwest and southeast currents in the southern. In 
proportion as the earth cooled the diversity of temperature between 
pole and equator became greater and the exchange more rapid. In 
the meantime the gradual increase in the extent and elevation of con- 
tinents would introduce still greater diversity. The regular oceanic 
currents, by impinging upon the continents, are reflected in various 
directions, increasing still further the diversity of climate. Currents 
of the air^ too, are no longer only trade winds, but also monsoons, land 
and sea breezes, &c. These various currents, mingling and contend- 
ing, produce the infinitely varying winds of the present epoch. But 
the most important current we have not yet spoken of. Land and sea 
may be considered the two poles of a circulating apparatus ; water 
rises in the form of vapor at one pole, passes over through the atmo- 
sphere, and is condensed on the other in the form of rain, and so back 
by the rivers to the ocean. The more rapid the condensation the more 
rapid the evaporation and the more rapid the circulation. Within 
certain limits, (i. e., until the land is sufficient to condense all the water 
evaporated from the ocean,) the amount of evaporation and condensa- 
tion is in proportion to the extent and elevation of the continents. 
It is evident, then, that in the earlier periods of the earth's history, 
when the ocean was almost universal, although the air was saturated 
with moisture, there was comparatively litfle rain ; and that just in 
proportion as the continents increased in extent and elevation, evapor- 
ation, and condensation would increase in the same proportion. It is 
impossible to resist the conclusion, then, that from the earliest jjeriods 
until now there has been a constant increase in activity and variety of 
currents of ocean and atmosphere ; of wind and rain ; of cloud and 
sunshine ; of fountains and rivers ; in fact of all that constitutes the 
life, variety, and beauty of our beloved earth. 

Thus it appears that at first igneous predominated over aqueous agen- 
cies. It was this very predominance which caused uncompensated, pro- 
gressive change — development of the earth as a whole ; for perfect 
balance is incompatible with developement. But gradually aqueous 
agencies increased in energy ; the antagonistic forces approached a 
balance as the earth approached maturity, until at present the balance 
may possibly be complete. 

In all I have said I have had in view, of course, only the ordinary 
regular operation of aqueous agencies, or what Mr. Lyell calls " causes 
now in operation." I say of course, because the extraordinary, irregu- 
lar operation of these agencies, such as are called ^^ debacles," &c., are 
too uncertain and hypothetical, not to say improbable, to form the 
basis of any reasoning whatever. I repeat, then, that during the coal 
period the ordinary operation of aqueous or degrading agencies must 
have been more slow than at present. The accumulation of a certain 
amount of material in a river delta, other things being equal, would 
require a longer time than now. 



142 LECTURES 



CLIMATE OF THE COAL PERIOD. 

It is probable, from what evidence we have on this subject, that 
the climate of the coal period was characterized by greater warmth, 
greater humidity, and greater uniformity than now obtains, and that 
the air was more highly charged with carbonic acid. Of the greater 
warmth of the climate we have evidence in the astonishing luxuriance 
and universal tropical character of the vegetation of the period. One 
of the most marked peculiarities of the flora of coal everywhere is the 
great relative abundance of ferns and fern allies. In the present flora 
of Great Britain the ratio of ferns to flowering plants is about 1 to 35, 
while in the coal flora of the same country nearly one-half of all the 
known plants are ferns. In the American coal flora the ])roportion 
of ferns is said to be still greater. That this abundance of ferns indi- 
cales a tropical climate is shown by the fact that in the existing flora, 
out of about 1,500 known species of ferns, 1,200 are confined to the 
tropics^ and as we pass from the equator towards the poles the propor- 
tion of ferns, steadily diminishes. The same may be said with refer- 
ence to the club-mosses. It is worthy of remark, too, that although 
conifers are abundant now all over the earth's surface, still those most 
nearly allied to the conifers of the coal — such, for instance, as the 
araucaria and salisburia of the present day — are found only in tropical 
regions. Now, during the coal period, this tropical vegetation extended 
as far as 75° north latitude. Tree ferns and gigantic club-mosses 
covered the spot now occupied by the Mellville island. The evidence 
of remarkable humidity is no less satisfactory, for it is only in warm, 
7noist climates that ferns and club-mosses grow in the greatest abun- 
dance and luxuriance. On some islands in the tropics and in the 
south seas the abundance of ferns even approaches that of the coal 
flora. In fact, as a condition of the growth of these plants, moisture 
seems even more necessary than heat. 

It has been objected to the greater heat of the climate, that coal was 
evidently formed by accumulation of carbonaceous matter in situ as 
now in peat bogs, and that peat bogs are found only in cool climates. 
The answer to this objection is not diflicult. It is not the heat 
immediately, but the resulting capacity for moisture, or, in common 
language, dryness of the air of the tropics, which under ordinary cir- 
cumstances prevents the preservation of carbon. The air is not so 
constantly at or near the point of saturation. Fogs, and mists, and 
clouds are not so constant as in cooler climates. But we have sup- 
posed greater humidity as well as heat during the coal period. Under 
these circumstances, there is no reason why peat should not accumu- 
late. We see proof of this in the peat swamps at the mouth of the 
Mississippi. Here we find peat accumulating in great abundance in 
a climate which is yet very warm ; and we have already seen that it 
is in such peat swamps, rather than in the bogs of cooler climates, 
that we are to look for analogies with the peaty accumulations of the 
coal period. The enormous extent of these peat swamps becomes in its 
turn an additional ])roof of the great humidity of the climate. 

The uniformity of climate — i. e. the comparatively equable distri- 



ON COAL. 143 

bution of lieat and moisture on the surface of the earth durins: the 
coal period — is evidenced by the remarkable uniformity of the flora. 
The general character of the coal flora was very much the same in every 
portion of the earth's surface, and in many cases even the same species 
are found in the most distant countries. Thus many identical species 
have been found in Europe, United States, New Holland and Mell- 
ville island, countries the existing flora of which differ entirely. Now, 
although I cannot accede to the doctrine that diversity of climate is 
the physical cause of diversity of fauna and flora, yet, whether we con- 
sider the physical or the flnal cause, the result would evidently be the 
same, viz : the perfect harmony between the climate and the fauna 
and flora, the perfect adaptation of the one to the other. 

That the atmosphere was highly charged with carbonic acid is ren- 
dered probable by the astonishing luxuriance of the vegetation of the 
period. Some experiments recently made by Mr. Gladstone seem to show 
that up to a certain limit the growth of ferns is rendered more rapid by 
the addition of carbonic acid to the atmosphere in which they grow. 
This probably becomes a certainty, when we reflect upon the enormous 
amount of carbon contained in the coal deposits, all of which must 
have been extracted from the atmosphere. It has been estimated that 
" all the forests of the United States gathered into one heap would 
fail to furnish materials of a single coal seam equal to that of Pitts- 
burg." Again, that " that there is laid up in the earth, in the form 
of coal, six times as much carbon as now exists in the atmosphere. If 
it was all returned to the air, there would be seven times as much 
carbonic acid in the atmosphere as at present." 

Cause of the climate of the coal. — Much speculative ingenuity has 
been exhausted to little effect in attempts to account for the remark- 
able climate of this period. We find here the same looseness of rea- 
soning unfortunately so common among geologists when dealing with 
physical subjects. The subject of most of this speculation has been 
the cause of the supposed greater heat of the climate. There are two 
principal methods of accounting for it. The first and most obvious 
mode is by means ot the commonly received hypothesis that the earth 
has cooled down to its present temperature from an original state of 
incandescence. But although there is much independent evidence of 
this original condition — and we think it extremely probable, therefore, 
that the heat of the coal period was due, at least in part, to this cause — 
yet, as Hopkins has shown, (Geol. Jour., 1853,) there are strong ob- 
jections to this as the only cause. We have already said that the 
surface temperature of the earth is due partly to internal and partly to 
external causes. At present the surface temperature from internal 
causes has become almost nothing, i. e. only one-twentieth of a degree 
Fahrenheit. The increase of temperature below the surface is about 
1° to sixty feet. Now, if we supposed the surface temperature from 
this cause to be increased even to 1°, the increase for every sixty feet 
of depth would be 20°. An increase of 10° surface temperature would 
make 200° increase of temperature for every sixty feet. The springs, 
except the most superficial, would all be boiling. Now, it will be 
recollected that the winter temperature of Mellville, where coal is 
found abundantly, is —20° Fahrenheit. It would, therefore, take near 



144 LECTURES 

100° additional of surface temperature to raise this to tropical heat. 
This would necessitate a temperature of 2,000° at the depth of sixty- 
feet, a condition of things, it would seem, utterly incompatible with 
the existence of luxuriant vegetation on the surface. 

The second mode of accounting for it is by means of distribution of 
land and water uj3on the earth's surface. Land, as compared with 
water, is both a better absorber and better radiator of heat, i. e., will 
both heat faster under the influence of a source of heat, as the sun, 
and cool faster when that source is withdrawn. This is familiarly 
illustrated by land and sea breezes. Again : the earth at the equator 
receives more heat from the sun than it radiates, while at the poles, 
on the contrary, it radiates more than it receives from the sun, the 
overplus in both cases being balanced by the currents of ocean and 
atmosphere. If these currents could be prevented, the equator, for a 
time, would get progressively warmer, and the jooles progressively 
colder. We may evidently, then, look upon the earth as a body heat- 
ing at the equator and cooling at the poles. Now, when we recollect 
the great absorbing and radiating power of land, as compared with 
water, it is easy to see that the mean temperature of the earth's surface 
may be materially affected by the distribution of these elements with 
reference to the two points in question. For instance, if the water be 
all collected in a belt about the equator, and the poles be occupied 
entirely by land, we would have the conditions most unfavorable for 
heating at the equator and most favorable for cooling at the poles. 
The result would be a considerable lowering of the mean temperature. 
If, on the contrary _, the waters be gathered into polar oceans, leaving 
an equatorial belt of land, the conditions would be most favorable for 
heating at the equator and most unfavorable for cooling at the poles, 
and the mean temperature would consequently rise. It is estimated 
that these two extreme conditions would bring down the mean tem- 
perature to 32°, or raise it to tropical heat. It is not to be supposed 
that such extreme conditions ever existed ; but any approximation to 
such conditions — for instance, a decided predominance of land towards 
the equator or poles — would produce the same effects to a corresponding 
degree. Now, it is possible that the greater heat of the coal period 
may be due to some such distribution of land and water. 

The fatal objection to this explanation is that we find no coal in 
tropical regions. As every coal field presupposes a large river, and 
therefore a considerable extent of land, the distribution of coal may 
be looked upon as in a general way indicative of the distribution of 
land during the period. It would seem from this that the larger 
bodies of land existed in temperate and arctic rather than in tropical 
regions. 

But if it is impossible by distribution of land and water to account 
for the greater mean temperature, it is at least easy in this way to 
account for the greater liumidity and uniformity of climate which we 
have found equally to characterize this period. I have already alluded 
to the fact that the pala?ozoic seas were probably very wide and the 
land correspondingly small in extent and low, and that such a condi- 
tion of things, on account of the very limited condensation and pre- 
cipitation of vapor^ would produce a very humid climate. Now, water 



ON COAL. 145 

being both a bad absorber and bad radiator of heat^ botb heating very 
slowly and cooling very slowly, it is evident that a great predominance 
of that element would produce, also, a very uniform climate. The 
difference of temperature between pole and equator, and between winter 
and summer, would be less than at present. 

Some geologists think, with Mr. Lyell, that this uniformity and 
humidity of climate is sufficient to account for the coal vegetation 
without the necessity of a higher mean temperature than now exists. 
If the present mean temperature was distributed more equably both 
over the earth surface and over the year, the effect would be to pro- 
duce cooler equator, it is true, but also much warmer high latitudes, 
and particularly the winters of high latitudes would be much less 
severe. The evidence is, however, it seems to me, in favor of some 
elevation of the mean temperature also. It is difficult to conceive how 
any uniformity of distribution of the present mean temperature, such 
as would be produced by the predominance of water, could raise the 
winter temperature of Mellville island to the point necessa,ry for the 
luxuriant growth of tree ferns. Some increase of temperature from 
internal cause seems to be necessary. I suppose, therefore, that if the 
temperature of the earth from internal causes was slightly elevated, 
say 10°, so that the mean temperature from 60° should become 70°, 
and then this mean temperature distributed over the earth surface as 
uniformly as possible, by means of a wide extent of ocean, we should 
have all the conditions necessary to produce the phenomena of coal 
vegetation. It will be recollected, too, that we have much indepen- 
dent evidence of the cooling of the earth from an original very high 
temperature. 

With reference to the highly carbonated condition of the atmo- 
sphere, we may suppose this to be the result of the greater activity 
of carbonic acid producing causes, or else we may refer it to the 
original constitution of the air — the natural process by which car- 
bonic acid is given to the air, decomposition, combustion, respiration 
of animals, and volcanoes, carbonated springs, &c. It will be admitted 
by all that the first three may be neglected, since they return to the 
air only what had been previously taken from it. The carbonic acid 
supplied to the air by volcanoes and carbonated springs, according to 
Bischoff, is so inconsiderable that, unless we suppose these sources 
much more active than now, it would take millions of years to affect 
materially the constitution of the air. But even this refuge is taken 
away, when we recollect that volcanoes and springs derive their car- 
bonic acid from carbonates, and chiefly from carbonate of lime, or com- 
mon limestone. But limestones, according to the testimony of all who 
have carefully studied them, and particularly according to the recent 
microscopic observations of Sorby, are entirely of animal origin, i. e. 
entirely made up of broken fragments of shells, corals, crinoids, some- 
times recognizable under the microscope, sometimes reduced to impal- 
pable powder. This carbonate of lime is evidently derived from 
sea- water. Whence, then, does sea-water derive its carbonate of lime? 
The lime is derived, beyond doubt, from igneous rocks, the carbonic 
acid probably from the atmosphere, through the animal and vegetable 
kingdoms, since lime exists in igneous rocks not as a carbonate but as 
10 s 



146 LECTUEES 

a silicate. It would seem to follow, then, that springs and volcanoes, 
also, only return to the atroosphere what had been previously taken 
from it. The only difference between these sources and the three first 
is, that while decomposition, combustion, and respiration return to 
the air what had been taken from it hut a little while before, springs 
and volcanoes return to the air what had been taken from it during 
some previous geological epoch. Thus the atmosphere becomes the 
great original source of all the carbonic acid in the world. 

But whatever be the cause of the excess of carbonic acid in the at- 
mosphere during the coal period, we cannot fail to see an evident and 
beneficent design in its removal. Carbonic acid, as is well known, is 
as poisonous to animals as it is nourishing to plants. Previous to the 
coal period there lived none but aquatic animals of low order. These, 
on account of low vitality, sluggish circulation, and little necessity 
for rapid and constant oxygenation of the blood, have great endurance 
of carbonic acid. But now the earth was prepared to receive air- 
breathing animals, the atmosphere must be purified for the purpose. 
This was accomplished by the astonishing vegetation of the coal period. 
But observe, and never cease to admire and wonder, that the self-same 
providential act which purified the atmosphere and rendered the earth 
a fit habitation for reptiles and birds, had reference also to the coming 
of man countless ages after, and laid up materials for his use. In the 
carbon thus silently extracted from the atmosphere was buried a me- 
chanical energy which, after a sleep of millions of years, was to rise 
again as the great physical regenerator of the human race. 

ORIGIN OF COAL. 

It is now universally admitted among geologists that coal is entirely 
of vegetable origin. There was a time, however, and that not many 
years ago, when the vegetable or mineral origin of coal was a ques- 
tion warmly contested by the best geologists ; but its vegetable char- 
acter is now so firmly established and so universally admitted that 
the history of the controversy has lost its interest. I will not, there- 
fore, tire you with its details, but proceed to state the evidence upon 
which the universal belief is founded. 

First, then, the enormous profusion of fossil plants, in the form of 
impressions ot leaves, trunks and branches of trees, fruits, &c., found 
in immediate connexion with a coal seam, afibrds strong presumption 
in its favor. In the second place, this presumption is strengthened," 
and becomes, in fact, almost certainty in the case of trunks of trees 
retaining their external conformation, and under the microscope their 
internal structure even to the minutest sculpturing upon their cell 
walls, and yet turned to perfect coal. It might possibly be objected 
that it may be a substitution of one substance for another, similar to 
what takes place in petrification, where we find, also, the external 
conformation and internal structure perfectly preserved, but the 
organic matter all gone, that the ancient trunk having been buried 
in bituminous matter and thoroughly impregnated therewith, as 
particle by particle the woody matter was removed by decomposition 
the bituminous matter took its place, and thus perfectly imitated its 



ON COAL. 147 

structure. But this objection is forever set aside, whfin, in the third 
place, we subject even the most structureless coal to microscopic 
scrutiny. The distinguished American microscopist, Professor Bailey, 
of West Point, has been able to detect the unmistakable evidences of 
vegetable structure even in the hardest anthracite. In fact it may be 
affirmed that there is no coal which, under careful examination, will 
not reveal a vegetable structure. 

Again : All the stages of gradation between perfect wood and per- 
fect coal may be traced with the greatest certainty. We find the first 
stage of this process in the blackened semi-bituminized logs of our 
peat bogs and deltas of the present epoch. The next stage we find in 
the lignites or brown coal of the tertiary period ; the next the highly 
bituminous coal of the oolite ; then the coals of the true carboniferous ; 
and lastly, the anthracites of the same and lower strata. Thus we 
may trace the whole embryology of coal from its immature to its most 
perfect condition — may trace and identify all the intermediate links 
of the chain of conditions of which wood and coal form the extreme 
limits. But not only in external form and appearance, but also in 
chemical composition we can trace these several stages. Wood con- 
sists of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen ; coal consists of the same ele- 
ments but in different proportions. In coal the proportion of carbon 
is greater and of oxygen and hydrogen less than in wood. Now, if 
we compare the chemical composition of wood, peat, lignite, bitumin- 
ous coal and anthracite, we find a progressive decrease in the propor- 
tion of oxygen and hydrogen, until, in anthracite, we find the carbon 
almost pure, and absolutely pure in graphite, if we acknowledge this 
as of similar origin. This chemical evidence is, it seems to me, abso- 
lutely demonstrative. 

Lastly, direct experiment proves that peat, which we know to be 
of vegetable origin, may, by strong pressure, be made to assume the 
hardness, the density, the general appearance, and all the useful pro- 
perties of coal. 

Assuming, then, the vegetable origin of coal as a basis of argu- 
ment, we will proceed to speak of, and to account for, the principal 
varieties of coal. 

All coal consists of two parts, the one combustible the other in- 
combustible. It is easy to separate these from one another. If a 
piece of coal is thrown into the fire the combustible portion passes 
away in the form of gases, the incombustible remains behind in the 
form of ash. Now, the relative proportion of these two vary infi- 
nitely in different coals. We have every stage of gradation between 
pure shale and pure coal, between pure incombustible and almost as 
pure combustible. In the purest coal the amount of ash is only 1 to 
2 per cent.; others, more impure, contain 5, 10, 20, 50 per cent, of 
ash. At this point coal loses the property of ready combustion, and 
with it loses also the name of coal in popular language. Bat the 
geologist recognizes no remarkable change at this particular point — 
no scientific reason why the name should change from coal to shale, 
as there is no corresponding change of nature. From this point, 
under the name of shaly coal, black slate, &c., the amount of ash. 
may continue to increase and the amount of combustible matter to 



148 LECTURES 

decrease, until, in pure shale or slate, tlie whole becomes incom- 
bustible. 

Now, wood consists also of combustible matter and ash, but the 
amount of ash in wood is much less than in coal — the wood of elm 
contains about 2 per cent.; willow, i half per cent.; beech, ^ per cent.; 
oak and pine about ^ per cent. The leaves and bark of trees, how- 
ever, contain much more than this. The fully matured leaves of the 
beech, willow, and elm contain, severallj'', 6.6_, 8, and 11 per cent, of 
ash. It is probable, then, that 2 to 3 per cent, is a fair average of 
the per centage of ash in dry vegetable matter. But even if the coal 
is perfectly pure, that is, formed of vegetable matter without foreign 
admixture, we should find a higher proportion of ash than in the 
wood from which it was formed, for, as we have already seen, wood 
loses hydrogen and oxygen in the process of change into coal. The 
weight therefore diminishes, but the absolute amount of ash remains 
the same^ and consequently the relative amount increases. We may 
safely say, then, that if coal contains not more than 5 per cent, of ash 
it may be considered quite pure; but if it contains more than 10 per 
cent, it is probably impure, i. e., mixed with foreign matter. This 
foreign matter being evidently the mud or clay upon which the carbo- 
naceous matter was originally laid down or by which it was after- 
wards covered. Hence we find the purest coal in the largest seams 
and in the middle portions equally removed from the floor and roof. 
As we pass towards the roof of a seam the coal passes by imperceptible 
degrees into black slate, which is, in fact, mud, more or less mixed 
with carbonaceous matter. 

So much for the varieties of coal depending upon purity or im- 
purity, upon the relative proportion of earthy, incombustible, inorganic 
matter, and of combustible organic matter. 

But, aside from the earthy matter, the combustible or organic matter 
of coal consi^^ts of two proximate elements mechanically mixed, viz: 
carbon and bitumen; charcoal is nearly pure carbon; common tar or 
pitch is very similar both in chemical composition and in general ap- 
pearance to bitumen. If, then, we conceive a piece of charcoal, care- 
fully burnt so that the vegetable structure is perfectly retained, to be 
thoroughly impregnated with pitch or tar, we should have a substance 
extremely similar to common coal. These two ingredients of coal 
may also be easily separated from one another. This is constantly 
done in the process of coking and in the manufacture of illuminating 
gas. The more volatile bitumen is driven olF in the form of gas or 
collects in the pipes as coal tar and the carbon remains as coke. 
Now, the relative proportion of these two ingredients also vary infi- 
nitely in different coals. We may have a coal of pure carbon, or a 
coal of pure bitumen, or a coal containing these two in every propor- 
tion. It is the relative proportion of these which give rise to the 
principal varieties of coal. A coal of pure carbon is called anthracite ; 
with a small amount of bitumen, say 10 to 20 per cent., it is called 
dry coals or semi-bituminous coal; when there is 20 to 30 per cent, of 
bitumen it is called bituminous or coking coal ; when the per centage 
is above this and the coal burns with a strong blaze and melts, it is 
called fat coals. Besides these there are certain varieties depending 



ON COAL. 149 

upon hardness, fracture, &c., such, for instance, as cannel, wliich is a 
highly hituminous coal, hut very hard, compact, fine-grained, and 
remarkably free from vegetable structure ; splint coal, &c. 

There are at least three possible methods of accounting for these 
varieties. 1st. The cause may have existed before the coal was laid 
down, in the nature of the wood of which the coals were formed. 
2d. The cause may be sought for in the changes through which the 
vegetable matter passed in the process of becoming coal. ^ 3d. We 
may find it in changes to which the coal was subjected after it became 
coal. 

First. It is possible that the kind of wood may in some degree_ de- 
termine the variety of coal, as, for instance, the accumulation of pines 
and other resinous wood may have given rise to the fat coals, while 
the non-resinous woods to the drier coals. This, I say, is possible, 
particularly as we know that coniferous trees grew in considerable 
abundance during the coal period ; but it seems very improbable as a 
general explanation. 

Second. We have already remarked that wood consists, chemically, 
of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and a small quantity of nitrogen, which 
may be neglected ; ancl that pit coal consists of the same chemical 
elements, only in different proportions, the carbon being in excess. 
It is obvious, then, that in the fermentation process by which wood 
is changed into coal a portion of the gases, hydrogen and oxygen, 
escapes. The amount which thus escapes determines the variety of coal. 

The composition of wood is variously stated by chemists ; in fact it 
is not a definite compound, but consists of the mixture of several 
proximate principles. It therefore varies much, according to the rela- 
tive^ abundance of these principles, such as starch, sugar, cellulose, 
lignire ; in other words, according to the kind or even the age of the 
wood. For the harder kinds of wood, such as the oak, Liebeg gives 
the formula, 0,5 H,2 O.,,. For softer kinds of wood, and par- 
ticularly for succulent Vegetable substances, the proportion of carbon 
is not so great. Whether, however, the formula which I have 
adopted be correct for the plants of the coal, or not, would not affect 
the general correctness of the reasoning upon which my conclusions 
are based. The composition of bitumen varies also very much, and 
for the same reason, viz : that it is composed of several proximate 
principles variously mixed. It is generally given as C. Hj^g, and 
a variable but small amount of oxygen, from 2 to 4. The composition 
of cannel coal is given byRegnault as 0.4 H^^g Oj. 

Wood = C36 B.,, 0,, 

Bitumen.... = Coq H^g 0, 
Cannel coal = C^^ E.^^ 0^ 

It will be seen that the proportion of carbon is greatest in coal and 
least in bitumen, but that the most striking difference between these 
substances and wood is the almost entire want of oxygen. Now, ac- 
cording to Liebeg, wood in the process of decay in the open air forms 
carbonic acid (0 O2) and water (II 0,) and the carbonic acid is 
formed by the union of the carbon with the oxygen of the wood, while 
the water is formed by the union of the hydrogen of the wood with 



150 LECTURES 

the oxygen of the air. As in the formation of carbonic acid, oxygen 
is consumed faster than the carbon ; if the decay goes on the residue 
will be at least pure carbon. 

Wood =1 Cgg H33 O22 

Deduct C O3 -f- H (the H unites with of air) = Cgg B.^^ 0^^ rr partly decayed. 
Deduct 5 (CO3) (=05 0^0) + 11 H = C30 H^q O^q r=: further decayed. 

But if decomposition take place out of contact, or with limited sup- 
ply of air, the process is more complex. The carbon, hydrogen, and 
oxygen combine with one another in various proportions, and the pro- 
ducts of decomposition are : carbonic acid (C 0^,,) carburetted hydro- 
gen (C H2 or C, H,,) and water (H 0,) and thus result the deadly 
choke-damp (C 0^) and the dreaded fire-damp (C H.^) of the coal 
mines. 

Let us now see how, according to this theory, the different varieties 
of coal may be formed. 

Wood = C,6 H^, 0, 
Deductll CO, =:Cii O22 I ^ r tt n 

Deduct 22 H oxydized by the air ] " ^n -^22 ^-'at 

and twenty-five atoms of carbon alone remain ; and this is the com- 
postion of pure anthracite. Again : If decomposition takes place out 
of contact of air, bitumen or bituminous coal is formed. Thus — 

Wood = C,6 H,, O22 

Deduct 9 C 0, = 0, 0,, ) 

Deduct 3 HO = " H, 3 f = C^^ H , O^i 

Deduct 3 C H^ = C3 H^^ ) ■ 

The remainder is cannel coal = 0,4 H^, ^ 

Again : 

Wood = C36 H^o O22 

and if from this we deduct 

10 atoms carbonic acid =Cio 0., 0? ^ -rr p. 

3 atoms defiant gas = C ^ H ^ " \ ~ ^'^ ^ <^ ^^'« 

the remainder is bitumen zi: C20 H^g 2 

In the same manner, by supposing the union of these three elements 
to take place in various proportions, under circumstances of more or 
less imperfect access of air, we may, without difficulty, account for all 
the different varieties of coal. 

There can be no doubt, it seems to me, that bituminous coal is ac- 
tually formed by this play of affinities. But with reference to the 
extremes of this series, viz: anthracite and bitumen, naptha, &c., it 
seems rnuch more probable that these have been the result of an after 
change, the last of the three possible causes with which we started. 

In the third place,, then, we have many reasons for believing that 
bituminous coal is really the normal coal, and that which is always 
formed by the play of affinities, of which we have spoken above, and 
that anthracite and bitumen are the result of the action of igneous 
agency upon such bituminous coal. 



ON COAL. 151 

We have already said that bituminous coal may be considered as a 
mechanical mixture of carbon and bitumen, and these two may easily 
be separated by heat. Anthracite is the residue after separation, and 
bitumen and naptha is the matter separated by distillation and con- 
densed elsewhere. As in the gas manufactories we find bituminous 
coal decomposed — a part remaining behind as coke, (pure carbon,) a 
part passing off as gas and a part collecting in pipes as coal tar — so 
in the laboratory of Nature coal beds subjected to heat give rise to the 
same three substances ; anthracite is left behind, coal gas is dis- 
charged into the atmosphere and bitumen collects in subterranean 
pipes and gives rise to naptha and bituminous springs, pitch lakes, 
&c. Thus, the enormous lake of boiling pitch in Trinidad is, proba- 
bly, in connexion with coal strata below. If so, such coal will be left 
in the condition of anthracite. All the strata of the earth are subject 
to change under the influence of heat: limestones become marbles, 
clays become slate. This change is called by geologists metamor- 
phism. Now, the proposition is that anthracite is metamorphic coal. 
The proofs of this proposition are as follows : 

In the first place, anthracite is never found except in regions very 
much disturbed by igneous agency, the strata highly inclined, contorted 
and broken ; and even in the same coal field the coal is anthracite or 
bituminous, according as the region is more or less disturbed. Thus, 
in eastern Pennsylvania^ where the coal strata are very much con- 
torted and sometimes perpendicular, (fig. 9,) the coal is all anthra- 
cite ; while in western Pennsylvania, where the strata are nearly 
horizontal, the coal is bituminous. The actual transition of anthra- 
cite into bituminous coal cannot be studied with advantage in Penn- 
sylvania, because the coal strata have been carried away to such an 
extent that only outlying patches are left ; but in Wales the same 
seam may be traced from the bituminous to the anthracite condition ; 
so that there can be no doubt that, in this case at least, anthracite is 
metamorphic coal. 

Second. Anthracite is never found except in metamorphic rocks, 
and conversely all coal contained in metamorphic strata is anthracite. 
This universal connexion of two things proves, as it seems to me, 
beyond doubt, their community of origin ; that they have a common 
cause. Thus, in the lowest stratified or primary rocks, where the 
rocks are altogether metamorphic, and even in the silurian, where a 
less complete metamorphism is almost universal, what little coal is 
found is always anthracite. In the coal measures we have coal both 
bituminous and anthracitic, but the anthracite always in altered and 
the bituminous in unaltered rocks. As we pass upward we find 
anthracite more rare, because metamorphism is more rare and local ; 
and when metamorphism entirely disappears in the tertiary rocks we 
find that anthracite disappears also. 

Third. Trap dykes, as it is well known, are formed by the out- 
breaking and outpouring of melted rock (lava) forced up through 
the superincumbent stratified rocks, which are altered and rendered 
metamorphic by the contact. Now, when a dyke passes through coal 
strata the coal is alwa,ys thoroughly coked by the contact ; that is, it 
is changed into a substance identical in chemical composition with 



152 LECTURES 

anthracite. These two substances are doubtless similar in their 
origin as well as in chemical composition, the great difference in their 
density being due only to the pressure under which the change took 
place. Anthracite is produced slowly under enormous pressure, while 
coke is produced under ordinary atmospheric pressure, and the rapid 
disengagement of gas renders it light and porous. 

THE PLANTS OF THE COAL — THEIR STRUCTURE AND AFFINITIES. 

Geology is the latest developed among the sciences. This is not an 
accidental phenomenon in the history of human intellectual progress, 
but one absolutely necessary, and the cause of which we can clearly 
trace. The great divisions of science in the order of their complexity 
are mathematics, mechanical sciences, chemical sciences, organical 
sciences, and geology. The first is limited to ideas of number and 
quantity ; the second comprises, in addition to the preceding, ideas of 
force ; the third, in addition, ideas of chemical affinity ; the fourth, in 
addition to the preceding, ideas of life, and the last, in addition to 
all the preceding, ideas of historic development. Now, this order of 
increasing complexity has necessitated a corresponding order of devel- 
opment in time. It is impossible that mechanics and physics should 
have assumed even the form of a science until mathematics was 
already mature. And so of the rest. Together they form a column, 
of which mathematics is the pediment and geology the capital ; or, 
rather, I should say, a magnificent temple, of which mathematics 
forms the solid foundation and geology the heaven pointing spire ; the 
most wonderful and perfect work which human genius has erected in 
honor of Deity. 

It is evident, therefore, that geology was compelled to await the 
development of other sciences. She could not come forward until her 
time was fulfilled, for her problems are the most complex and difficult 
which are to be found in the whole range of science. It is evident, 
also, that the geologist must be thoroughly accomplished in all de- 
partments of science. He must be thoroughly grounded in mechanical 
and physical sciences, or how shall he reason successfully on the up- 
heaval of continents, the formation of mountain chains, the dynamics 
of earthquakes and volcanoes, the actions of currents, &c. He must 
be familiar with chemistry, for disintegration and consolidation of 
rocks, the deposits of springs, the formation of coal^ are chemical 
quebtions. Still more necessary to him is an acquaintance with organic 
science, for the organic remains are the Divine hieroglyphs in which 
the history of the earth is recorded. It is this very complexity^ this 
very elevation in the scale, this almost universal culture required of 
her votaries, which constitutes the greatest obstacle in the way of real 
progress in this science. I know it is thought by many that geology 
is an easy and simple science, that any one, by industrious collection 
of fossils and persevering exercise of memory^ may be a good geolo- 
gist ; but this is a sad and very pernicious error. In so vast a science 
collectors of materials must be numerous, but the philosophical gen- 
eralizer is very rare. In so vast an edifice the fetchers of stone and 
brick and mortar are innumerable, but heaps of brick and stone and 



ON COAL. 153 

mortar do not constitute a temple ; the one may be accumulated by 
the human hand, the other can be constructed only by the human 
mind, and in this case only by genius of the highest order. In fact, 
a master builder in this sc:ence has not yet lived. No man has yet 
been able to sketch the outlines of this noble work with a hand so firm 
and decided that all shall labor in harmony and mutual confidence, 
and the work shall thenceforward proceed with steadiness and cer- 
tainty. 

In some sense, therefore, all departments of science may be looked 
upon as the handmaids of geology. And it is curious and instructive 
to observe how, in reward for their services, she stamps each one with 
the seal of philosophy ; how each science becomes, in her service, 
more comprehensive, more philosophic, more exact. The problems 
in physics and chemistry which geology proposes are so difficult, the 
conditions under which well known forces act are so numerous and 
complicated, and the scale on which they operate are so vast, that 
every formula must be revised, every law must be made more exact. 
Thus, under the guidance of geology, these two old and mature 
sciences seem entering on a new and higher career. 

But perhaps the most remarkable instance of the favorable change 
and philosophic character which the advent of geology has impressed 
upon other departments of science is to be found in the case of natural 
history. 

The zoology and botany of the last age were little more than the 
knowledge of the names and external forms of species, and their ar- 
rangement according to an arbitrary system of classification. But it 
is evident that such zoology and botany can be of little service to 
geology. The external form of an extinct species is seldom seen. 
G-enerally all that we have of an animal is a few bones or teeth, some- 
times a single scale ; of a plant, a fragment of wood or a leaf, and the 
problem which geology proposes is, from such meagre materials to 
reconstruct the whole organism. To the unskilled this seems impos- 
sible. But the harmony which exists between all parts of an organ- 
ism is so perfect that each may be said to necessitate every other. A 
complete knowledge of the laws of organization would thus enable us, 
from any one part^ to reconstruct the whole. One strain of song in- 
stantly suggests all that is necessary to make the harmony complete. 
Thus a profounder knowledge of animals and plants becomes neces- 
sary — a knowledge not only of external forms, but also of internal 
structure and the harmonious relation of parts. Classification is no 
longer an ingenious artifice to facilitate the acquisition of knowledge, 
but becomes the highest expression of knowledge, the epitome of na- 
ture. Thus, from a mere mass of barren details, natural history has 
risen to the highest philosophic rank. Even astronomy has been 
compelled to take a lesson of philosophy from her younger sister. 
She must relax the severity of her dogmas. She must modify some- 
what the absoluteness of her assertions concerning the staoility of all 
things, fenced, though they be, round about with mathematical for- 
mula3, now since the idea of infinite time has been introduced by 
geology. ^' The causes which tend to destroy the stability of the solar 
system," says astronomy, "are infinitely small, and therefore may 



154 LECTDEE8 

be rejected from the equation." True, but infinitely small quantities 
accumulating through infinite ages become finite, in fact, become very 
important ; for it is these very same infinitely small residual quanti- 
ties, rejected by astronomy as of no value, which, by their accumula- 
tion, constitute the progressive development of the earth and solar 
system. Without such small uncompensated forces history, whether 
geological, national, or individual, would be impossible. An insect 
philosopher, the span of whose life is a single day, attentively ob- 
serving the daily cycle of the healthy human body, might rationally 
assert the stability of the human system. The body, at the end of 
twenty-four hours, has come back to the same spot whence it started. 
At least the variation, if any, must be infinitely small, and therefore, 
for all purposes of insect life, may be rejected as of no value. And 
yet it is the accumulation of this same infinitely small variation which 
constitutes the growth and progressive development of the body. This 
is not an exaggerated illustration, for 2,000 years, the whole age of 
astronomy, is but one day, yea, but a small fraction of a day, in the 
geological history of the earth. 

The flora of the coal period is more complete than that of any pre- 
vious or succeeding geological epoch. The whole number of fossil 
species of plants known is probably not far from 2,000. Of these, 
according to estimates made more than ten years ago, about 816 are 
from the " coal measures." The constant additions which have been 
made since that time, particularly by Dr. Newberry and others, from 
an examination of the coal fields of our own country, would probably 
bring the number up to at least 900. Probably, therefore, nearly if 
not quite one-half of all known fossil plants belong to this period. I 
have already said that a coal seam is made up of the remains of such 
plants, yet it is not in the coal seams themselves that we find the best 
preserved specimens of coal plants. On the contrary, the vegetable 
matter is here so thoroughly disorganized that it is only by means of 
the microscope that we are able to detect its original structure. It is 
rather in the associated shale strata that the most beautiful impres- 
sions occur, particularly in the overlying hlach slate. Between the 
thin sheets of this slate the stems and leaves are as perfiectly preserved, 
every vein and nerve, as between the leaves of the botanist's herbarium. 
This fact, viz : that the well-preserved plants are always found in 
abundance in this position, and never in the coal seam proper has, as 
it seems to me, an important bearing upon the theory of coal de- 
posit. But of this we shall speak again in another place. You have 
here before you a magnificent slab of black slate, profusely covered 
with beautiful impressions of leaves and stems of ferns and calamites. 
In this case, as perhaps in most others, the impressions, though well- 
defined, are not conspicuous at a distance, because the color of the 
ground and of the figures are so nearly alike, but in some cases, when 
the shale background is light-colored, the relief of the coal-black 
impressions is very beautiful. The newly exposed roof of a coal mine 
has been compared by Dr. Buckland to the most magnificent fresco 
painted ceilings of Italian buildings. 

But although the number of species of coal plants is so great, yet 



ON COAL. 155 

coal is supposed to be composed principally of tlie remains of four 
families only, viz : Ferns, Sigillaria', Lepidodendrons , and Cdlamiles. 
The abundance of individuals belonging to these families is so great, 
and their size so enormous, that they must have given character to 
the vegetation of this period, and may therefore be taken as represen- 
tatives of its flora. As such, therefore, I shall consider them, and it 
will be our object in this lecture to give you some idea of their appear- 
ance and affinities. 

There are certain periods in the history of our race upon which we 
are apt to gaze with peculiar interest and admiration — when the 
human mind, awakening from its sleep of barbarism, rejoices in the 
ostentatious display of its strength and its beauty, so in the history 
of our earth, the period of the coal stands out beyond all others as the 
^^ heroic oge," when nature seemed to delight herself in the fantastic 
exercise of power, and to exhaust her strength in the production of 
vegetable giants and monsters. It will be my object to show that this 
age, although to the popular mind it may appear a mythological age, 
an age of wonders and prodigies, an age to which ordinary principles 
of reasoning are inapplicable ; that this age is but one chapter, a page, 
in a connected history^ one step in the accomplishment of the unvary- 
ing plans of Deity. 

A glance at these drawings of coal plants will give you some general 
idea of the strange forms which constituted the flora of this period. 
But it is not only a vague general idea of external form which I wish 
to give you ; we have already had too much of this in popular lectures 
on geology. If we would grasp the real thought expressed in the 
vegetation of this period ; if we would understand the true significance 
of the coal flora in the Divine economy ; if we would catch the key- 
note of this Divine harmony, we must take more than a superficial 
glance — we must look deeply, thoughtfully, reverently. But, in order 
to make myself understood, I find it necessary to step a little out of 
the way, to give you a sketch of the great divisions of the vegetable 
kingdom and the characteristics of each, so that, by comparison, we 
may be able to determine the position of the coal plants. Whatever 
is noble and elevating in science must be equally interesting to every 
intelligent mind ; but in order to appreciate it, it is absolutely neces- 
sary to master in some degree uninteresting technicalities. The jewel 
is inclosed always in an unattractive casket of lead ; we must find the 
key before we can gain the prize. 

The vegetable kingdom, then, is divided into two great classes: the 
Fhcenogajns, or flowering plants, and the Cryptogams, or flowerless. 
The Cryptogams may be again divided into cellular and vascular Cryp- 
togams. The cellular Cryptogams, such as the mosses, fungi lichens, 
sea weeds, &c., consist entirely of cellular tissue, while the vascular 
Cryptogams, such as ferns, club-mosses, equisetaceae, (horse-tails,) com- 
bine the vascular tissue with the cellular. The Phoinogams may also 
be divided into two sub-classes, viz : the Gymnosperms, or naked seeded 
plants, and the Angiosperms, or covered seeded plants. The Gymnos- 
perms bear their seeds naked or exposed, either near the base of an 
open capillary leaf, as in the pine family, {Co7iifers,) fig. 12, or else 



156 



LECTURES 



Fig. ii. 



Fig. 13. 



on its edges, as in the cycas family. Figs. 12 and 13 represent cross 

sections of the capiUary leaves of naked 
seeded plants. The Angiosperms, on the 
contrary, bear their seeds enfolded within 
the capillary leaf or seed vessel, (figs. 14 and 
15,) as in all the ordinary flowering plants. 
The Angiosperms are again subdivided into 
3fonocolyledons, (one cotyledon or seed leaf 
in the embryo,) fig. 16, and Dicotyledons, 
(t wo seed leaves in the embryo,) fig. 17. 




Fig. 16. 



Fig. 17. 





Cryptogams, 



( Dicotyledons, } k - 

Pheenogams, ] Monocotyledons, \ Angiosperms. 
( Conifers & Cycada^^ Gymnosperms. 

Vascular Cryptogams. 
Cellular Cryptogams. 

Now, the most important means of determining the families of coal 
plants are the internal structure of the stem and the venation of the 
leaves. Generally, indeed, these are the only means at oi'ir command. 
Let ns inquire, then, how the great divisions of the vegetable king- 
dom are characterized in these respects. 

Among Phcenogams there are two very distinct types or plans of 
internal structure of the stem, viz : the Exogenous, or outside-growing, 
and the Endogenous, or inside-growing ; the one represented by the 
hard-wood trees and shrubs, the other by the palms, canes, grasses, 
&c. On cross section of an exogen (fig. 18) we find three distinct 
zones of tissue. In the centre a zone of cellular tissue, the pith ; 
exterior to this a zone of wood, and around this again a zone of cellular 
tissue, the bark. The zone of wood is, moreover, subdivided into con- 
centric rings, which represent the annual layers of growth, and sepa- 
rated into wedges by radiating lines of cellular tissue (silver grain) 
connecting the cellular tissue of the pith with the cellular tissue of 

the bark. In the Endogens, 
on the contrary, we have the 
woody tissue in the form of 
thread-like bundles, irregu- 
larly interspersed amongst 
the cellular. The dry stalk 
of an Indian corn is a fa- 
miliar illustration of this 
structure. If such a stalk is 
broken across and the two 
parts careiuUy separated , the 
thread-like bundles of woody and vascular tissue are observed to draw 



Fig. 18 




ON COAL. 157 

out from the softer cellular tissue. Here we o'bserve no distinct pitli ; on 
distinct bark separable from the wood ; the wood not collected into a 
distinct zone; not arranged into concentric layers, nor divided by me- 
dullary rays. The exogenous plan of structure includes the Dicoty- 
ledons and the pine and cycas families ; while endogen may be con- 
sidered synonymous with monocotyledon. 

In the vascular Cryptogams the woody and vascular tissue is still 
differently arranged. The stem of a club-moss, for instance, consists 
of a mass of cellular tissue inclosed in a rind of the same tissue more 
condensed, with a single central thread of vascular tissue. Sometimes 
there seems to be in the centre of this something like a very imperfect 
pith. The cellular Cryptogams, as their name indicates^ consist 
entirely of cellular tissue. 

It will be observed that, in the general structure and mode of 
growth, the family of pines (Gymnosperms) is allied to the highest 
order of plants, viz: the Dicotyledons, while in its reproduction it is 
below the Monocotyledons. This latter position is beyond doubt the 
true one ; and a more attentive examination of the wood of pine in 
comparison with that of Dicotyledons will confirm us in this view. 
As this is a very important point, and as much false theorizing on 
the subject of the plants of the coal has been the result of a miscon- 
ception of the true position of conifers, I will dwell a little more 
minutely than I should have otherwise considered it necessary to do. 

The wood oi' Dicotyledons consists of two dis- Fis. 20. 

tmct tissues, viz: the woody tissue jiroper and the 
vascular tissue. The woody tissue proper is com- 
posed of elongated cells, too small to be distin- 
guished by the naked eye, while the vascular tissue 
is composed of very much larger cells or tubes. 
The visible pores in such wood as oak^ chestnut, 
vine, &c., belong to this tissue. Fig. 20 repre- 
sents cross section of two wooden wedges, with 
their medullary rays. The comparative size of 
the wood cells and the vessels is well shown. The 
difference is often much greater than in the figure. 
In pine wood, on the contrary, there is no distinction of woody and 
vascular tissue; but the so-called wood consists entirely of an open, 
thin-walled tissue, intermediate in every respect between the vas- 
cular and the woody layer and thinner walled than the true woody, 
but smaller than the true vascular. This is shown in the cross 
section, (fig. 21.) On a longitudinal section, (fig. 22,) the cells 
of pine wood are marked by large disc-like elliptical plates, which 
are entirely characteristic of this family. The smallest fragment 
is sufficient to distinguish it with the utmost certainty. 

Now, if we trace the development of the tissues, either by passing 
from the lowest to the highest plants, or from the earliest embryonic 
to the mature condition of one of the higher plants, we shall find that 
all the different kinds of tissue are modifications of the cellular ; that 
there is a more and more complete differentiation of form and special- 




158 



LECTURES 



< 




Fig. 23. 



Figs 21 and 22. izatioQ of fuDctioii as development progresses. 
The longitudinal system is first formed by modifi- 
cation of the cellular, and then this is again differ- 
entiated into the two forms of woody and vascular 
tissue. Now, in the pine family, this last differ- 
entiation has not taken place. So far as its tissues 
are concerned, therefore^ this family should rank 
helow all other flowering plants. 

Let us next examine the different classes of 
plants with respect to the venation of their leaves. 
With respect to their venation the leaves of 
plants are divided into three distinct kinds, viz : 
the reticulated, or netted veined, the parallel 
veined, and the dicholomously veined. In the 
first the veins branch and again run together, 
forming an inextricable net-work, (Fig. 23, a.) 
In the second the veins run parallel from one end 
of the leaf to the other, connected only by slender 
transverse bars, so that the leaf may be torn into 

parallel rib- 
bons. (Fig. 
23, &.) In the 
third the veins 
branch, but do 
not run to- 
gether again. 
(Fig. 23, c and 
d.) The first 
is characteris- 
tic of the Dico- 
tyledons ; the 
second of the* 
3Ionocotyle- 
dons; and the 

third of the Ferns — perhaps of the vascular Cryptogams generally. 
The leaves of cellular Cryptogams are veinless. In this enume- 
ration it will be observed I have not mentioned the Conifers. To 
which class, then, do the leaves of the pine family belong? Undoubt- 
edly to the third. This fact cannot be easily demonstrated upon 
leaves of ordinary pines, for their cylindrical leaves show no veins, 
or, if visible, they seem to be parallel. But there are a few broad- 
leaved Conifers, and these always show the dichotomous branch- 
ing of the veins in the most unmistakable manner. In the 
Salisburia, for instance, we have as beautiful an instance of this 
mode of branching as can be found among the Ferns. The leaves 
of this Conifer are about two or three inches broad, the shape and 
venation very similar to that represented in Fig. 23, c, but much 
more beautii'ul. This close alliance in the venation of the leaves 
between the pines and the ferns is another evidence of the low 
position of the former among flov.'ering plants. Thus it appears that 
this remarkable family of plants is allied to the highest Fhcenogams 






ON COAL. 169 

in the general structure of its wood, and to the Cryptogams in the 
venation of its leaves. If there was no other evidence we might he in 
douht as to its true position ; but the simplicity of its reproduction 
and of its tissues settles the question, as it seems to me, forever. 
There are other points of alliance between pines and club-mosses, 
which it would lead me too far to notice. In fact this family seems 
to be, in a remarkable degree, both a connecting and an embryonic 
type, and therefore, as we shall presently see^ eminently calculated 
to throw light upon the plants of the coal. 

Let us now attempt to apply these principles in the interpretation 
of the plants of the Coal, and particularly of the four families already 
taken as representatives of the flora of this period, viz: the Ferns , 
Sigillarice, Lepidodendron, and Calamites. We shall confine our atten- 
tion principally to the second and third. With reference to the 
Fertis there is little dispute ; their unmistakable resemblance to the 
ferns of the present flora leave no doubt as to their afiinities. I will 
only remark, in passing, that many of the coal genera of this family 
seem to have affinities also with the Cycadce and Coni/erce. With 
reference to the other three families the difficulty is much greater^ 
they are generally supposed, however, to be most nearly allied to the 
Lycopodiacece (club-mosses) and the Equisetacece, (horse-tails ;) the 
Sigillarice and Lepidodendrons being considered most nearly allied to 
the club-mosses, and the Calamites to the horse-tails. If so, then we 
are at once struck with the enormous size of the coal plants in com- 
parison with their humble representatives at the present day. Sigil- 
larice and Lepidodendrons attained the amazing height of seventy to 
one hundred feet, and a diameter of five to six feet, while the club- 
mosses of the present day seldom rise to an altitude of more than a 
few inches. Calamites attain a diameter of fourteen or fifteen inches, 
and a height of thirty to forty feet, while the horse-tails are among 
our humblest plants. This enormous difference in size is sufficient of 
itself to lead us to suspect that these are not true club-mosses and 
horse-tails. Let us examine them more closely. 

Here you have rude sketches of these families. This is Sigillaria. 
This genus is so little known as to its external appearance that I 
cannot represent or speak of it with any confidence. In almost every 
case it is ibrmed as a straight cylindrical trunk, without branches or 
leaves. So that, although this plant is so common, yet its mode of 
branching and the form of its leaves is still a matter of dispute among 
botanists. In a few cases Sigillaria trunks have been found to bifurcate 
and produce long cylindrical branches. In a single, perhaps doubt- 
ful, case {Sig. Icpidodendrifolia) leaves have been found similar to 
Lepidodendron. One of two views seems probable : either that many 
so-called Lepidodendrons, so commonly found in connexion with 
Sigillaria, are the branches of the latter, in which case the branching 
and foliage of this genus are similar to tbe Lepidodendron, or else 
that Sigillaria, like tree ferns, were generally branchless, and that the 
large fronds, (generally supposed to belong to Ferns,) which are po 
commonly found strewed in profusion about their bases, were their 
leaves. What I have represented by these sketches are therefore 
ideal restorations on the former hypothesis, rather than actual speci- 



160 



LECTURES 



mens. You will observe, then, the sparse dichotomous branching, the 
cylindrical limbs with blunt extremities, so characteristic of the club- 
moss, but which is found^ also, in some species of pines. Like the club- 
moss, too, the leaves are crowded, pointed, strung along the stem for 
some distance, but longer, slenderer, and more nearly resembling the 
leaves of the pine. On this trunk you will observe the seal-like im- 
pressions {sigilla) characteristic of this family, and from which its 
name is derived. Also longitudinal depressions running from one 
end of the trunk to the other, and along which the sigilla are arranged 
in vertical rows. Thus each trunk of a Sigillaria resembled a noble 
fluted doric ^column beautifully but variously sculptured the pattern 
changing with the species. These sigillae are evidently leaf scars, 
and therefore indicate the leaf arrangement peculiar to this family. 

The Lepidodendron, of which you have here a drawing, was still 
more like the club-moss, the crowded leaves being shorter, rhomboidal, 
and more scale like, the same long, slender, cylindrical, sparse dichot- 
omous branches. But even here we find an almost equal resem- 
blance to Conifers, for it will be recollected that in a large number 
of Conifers as the Juniperus, the Araucaria, &c., the same rhomboidal, 
j)laited scale-like leaves prevail. The impression of a shoot of an Araii- 
caria could scarcely be distinguished from that of some species of club- 
moss, except by superior size of the former. In its fructification there 
is the same difficulty, for it is doubtful whether it most nearly resem- 
bled the cone of pines, or the cone-like fructification of club-mosses, 
although the recent investigations of Hooker leave little doubt that 
the latter is the truer view. All that we know, then, of the external 
appearance of these families lead us to the conclusion that they were 
intermediate between pines and club-mosses, and that the Sigillaria 
approached most nearly the pines, and the Lejndodendj^ons most nearly 
the club-mosses. 

Let us next see what light is thrown upon this subject by examina- 
tion of the internal structure. 

Fig. 24. Fi". 25. 




Cross section of Sigillaria: a the pith; h the 
woody cylinder; c the cellular tissue; d the 
rind; ethe bundles ot vascular tissue running 
from central sheath to the leaves. 



Cross and longitudinal section of Sigillaria; 
letters represent same as in fig. 24; /// the 
leaves. 



ON COAL. 



161 



If we make a section of the stem of a Sigillaria, (figs 24 and 25,) we 
find externally a hai^k, or, more probably, a rind{a) of condensed cellu- 
lar tissue, sometimes a half or an inch thick; within this an enormous 
amount of loose cellular tissue, (c,) often 2 feet or more thick. Through 
the centre of this runs a slender sheath(J) of vascular or woody tissue, 
which in a Sigillaria 5 feet in diameter is not more than 3 inches in 
diameter ; a mere thread of vascular in the midst of a mass of cellular 
tissue. This again incloses a small pith (a) which occupies the very 
centre of the trunk. These vascular cylinders, with their inclosed pith, 
being the most indestructible portion of the trunk, are often found 
alone, and described under the name of Endogenites. Figs. 24 and 25 
represent cross and longitudinal ideal sections of this plant, (a) the 
cellular tissue of the pith, (h) the vascular or woody sheath, (c) the 
mass of cellular tissue between the vascular sheath and (d) the rind, 
(e) slender vascular bundles connecting the leaves with the central 
sheath. Upon closer examination of this woody or vascular cylinder 
(b) it is found to consist of concentric layers, somewhat analogous to the 
layers of growth of exogenous trees, and divided into wedges by medul- 
lary rays, like the tree exogens. Upon still closer examination, how- 
ever, of a good cross section under a microscope (fig. 26) no distinction 
of vascular and woody tissue, such as is found in the wood of Dicotylo- 
dons, is observed, but the whole is made up of one kind of tissue, open 
and thin-walled, in comparison with woody tissue proper, but closely 
resembling the wood of pines. But a longitudinal section shows no 
disc-like markings such as characterize the wood of Conifers, but 

Figs. 26 and 27. Fig. 28. 





Fig. 28. A cross section and longitudinal section 
of a Sigillaria. The letters a, b, e, d, e represent 
same a.s in previous figs. 1, 2, 3 are the 3 layers 
of the vascular cylinder 6, wi isa medullary ray'. 

reveals the fact that it consists entirely of spiral vessels, (figs. 27 and 
27;) and that, therefore, the sheath of the Sigillaria consists of vascular 
rather than of woody tissue. In consequence of the great predomi- 
nance of cellular tissue, these stems, as well as those of the Lepido- 
dendron and Calamites, are generally found very much flattened bv 
pressure. '' 

11 s 



162 



LECTURES 



A cross and longitudinal section of the Lepidodendron shows 
similar but still less highly organized structure, (figs. 29 and 30.) 



Fig. 29. 



Fig. 30. 





The vascular sheath is still smaller, extremely thin, forming on 
cross section an exceedingly narrow zone. It is moreover not separated 
into concentric rings nor divided by medullary rays. The cellular 
tissue both within and without the sheath is very open and loose. 
The rind {d) consists of similar cellular tissue, but more condensed, 
and there seems to be no line of demarcation, but a gradual transition; 
in other words, there is apparently no true bark. Here, also, we find 
long slender bundles of vascular tissue (spiral vessels) connecting the 
leaves with the central sheath. Microscopic examination of the vas- 
cular sheath shows no sign of woody tissue. 

Calamites we know much less about, but it would seem that in them 
there is a still greater predominance of cellular tissue, if, indeed, they 
possessed any vascular tissue at all. They are often found pressed 
perfectly flat, indicating that they were either hollow, or more probably 
consisted of a simple rind of condensed cellular tissue, inclosing looser 
tissue of the same kind. Of this plant, however, we know too little to 
draw any conclusion as to its affinities. 

Now, if we examine by sections a common Lycopodmm, or club-moss, 
we find an internal structure closely resembling what we have found 
in Sigillaria and Lepidodendron. Externally a thin but tough rind, 
or epidermis of condensed cellular tissue, inclosing a mass of very loose 
cellular tissue, through the centre of which runs a slender thread of 
vascular tissue, sending off in every direction still slenderer threads of 
the same to the crowded leaves. Upon longitudinal section the vascu- 
lar tissue is found to be chiefly spiral ducts. The principal difference 
between this structure and that of the Lepidodendron is that the latter 
has a more perfect pith, and in this respect seems to be allied to the 
higher order of plants. But I am convinced, from personal examina- 
tion of the Lycopodium, that its vascular thread was the outline of both 
pith and medullary rays. I call more particular attention to this 
observation, because^ as far as I know, it is new, and as it seems to me 
calculated to throw much light on the affinities of coal plants. 

This very remarkable structure, viz : the existence of a slender 
central thread of vascular tissue in the midst of a large mass of very 
loose cellular, does not exist, I believe, among existing plants in the 



ON COAL. 163 

mature condition, except in the family of club-mosses. In tlie embry- 
onic state, however, of the Dicotyledons we find something similar. 
If we make a cross section of a Dicotyledon soon after germination, 
t. e., while the first two or three pairs of leaves are expanding, we will 
find a structure very similar to that of the Lepidodendron. We find 
in the centre a small pith surrounded by a thin zone of vascular tissue, 
(mostly spiral vessels,) around this a large mass of cellular tissue, des- 
tined to become partly bark and partly wood_, but which is yet neither 
one nor the other, and the whole inclosed in a thin epidermis of con- 
densed cellular tissue. 

Thus it appears, both from external and internal examination, that 
these families combined the characters of pines and club-mosses. Or 
if we are disposed to attach moro importance to their exogenous affini- 
ties, and thus to place them among the pines, then we must compare 
them with the earliest embryonic condition of this class. The true 
view, I am convinced, is, that they are both connecting and embryonic 
types, or connecting types with embryonic characters. In fact, all 
embryonic types seem to be more or less connecting, and conversely 
connecting types, at least in Falceontology, are also embryonic. Now, 
what I have said of the Sigillaria and Lepidodendron is equally true, 
I believe, of other coal plants. I have taken these two because they 
are better known ; but all that is known concerning other genera 
seem to point in the same direction. They all seem to be more or less 
connecting types. The Sphenophyllum, Noggerathia, and probably 
many of the so-called Ferns of this period are of this character. 

Let us inquire now what important conclusions may be drawn from 
what we have seen of the affinities of these plants : 

1. The distinction of plants into Cryptogams and Phcenogams is 
considered by botanists a fundamental one. Many recent investiga- 
tions, however, have combined to throw some doubt upon the entire 
distinctness of these classes. The study of the Coal Plants, particu- 
larly of the two families Sigillaria and Lepidodendron , it seems to me 
entirely destroys this as a fundamental division, or, at least, as one at 
all comparable to the great divisions of the animal kingdom. The 
pines belong uaequivocally to the Phcenogams and the club-mosses to 
the Cryptogams. If the Sigillaria and Lepidodendron are connecting 
links between these two families then the classes to which they belong 
can no longer be considered as fundamentally distinct types or plans 
of structure. The study of animals, both existing and extinct, have 
confirmed the wonderful generalization of Cuvier. The four types — 
Vertebrata, Articidala, 3IoUusca, and Radiata — were as distinct during 
the palaeozoic period as now. If such distinct plans of structure 
exist in the vegetable kingdom at all they have not yet been indicated 
as such by botanists. The distinction into exogen and endogen would 
seem more likely to be fundamental, as this is apparently not a mere 
distinction of rank or complexity of structure, but of plan of struc- 
ture. If 80, then we shall probably be able to trace these two types 
downwards until, overleaping the distinction of Phcenogams and 
Cryptogams as one of complexity of structure only, they reach the 
lower confines of the vegetable kingdom. 

2. We have seen that the plants of the coal are most_, if not all of 



164 LECTURES. 

them, connecting types with embryonic characters. This is not an 
isolated fact, hut one which meets us at every step in the course of our 
study of the geologic history of the earth. It is hut one illustration 
of a general latv, a law of the deepest philosophic import, and yet one 
which is still very imperfectly recognized among geologists. The law 
may he thus stated : The first introduced animals or plants of any 
class have heen combining types, i. e., have united within themselves 
the characters of several families, now distinct and even widely sepa- 
rated. Thus the first vertebrates introduced were fishes, but not 
typical fishes, as we might be led a priori to expect, but Placoids and 
Ganoids, families which, particularly in their earlier lepresentatives, 
united with ordinary fish characters others which connected them with 
the class of reptiles, and even of mammals; and still others which 
connect them with the embryonic condition of the typical fishes. It is 
this combination of embryonic characters with others which connect 
them with the higher classes, this union of high and low characters, 
which has given rise to all the disj)ute concerning the position of these 
families in the scale of Fishes as well as to much of the difi'erence of 
opinion concerning the law of succession of animals in Greology. 
Again, the first introduced reptiles, viz: the reptiles found in the old 
red sandstone and coal, are the most remarkable instances of con- 
necting types of which we have any knowledge. In the first place 
they seem to have been amphibious, (in the proper sense of the word,) 
and thus to have connected land animals and water animals, air 
breathing with water breathing, and all of them united characters, 
which are now represented by widely separated families. To give a 
single instance : the carboniferous reptile, recently described by Pro- 
fessor Wyman and exhibited at the last meeting of the Scientific As- 
sociation at Albany, so remarkably combined characters which are now 
parcelled out between the three families of Batrachians, Saurians, and 
Ophidians, that this distinguished comparative anatomist seemed 
almost at a loss as to which of these iamilies to assign it. He decided, 
however, that it most nearly resembled a Salamandroid Batrachian 
with characters closely connecting it with the other families already 
mentioned. 

The LahyrintJiodon of the new red sandstone has been classed by 
some anatomists with Boiracliians, and by others with crocodiles. 
There seems yet a doubt whether it should be called a tailless croco- 
dile or a crawling frog with crocodilian teeth. The huge Saurians of 
the secondary period combined reptilian with fish, and even some 
mammalian characters. Even in the tertiary period and in the intro- 
duction of the highest animals this law is not forgotten. The recent 
investigations of Professor Owen have shown that the first introduced 
Pachyderms were not typical Pachyderms, but that they combined the 
characters of Pachyderms and Ruminants to such a degree that it is 
almost impossible to assign them with certainty to one or the other 
order. In fact, the study of these extinct forms has led this great 
anatomist to class the Pachyderms and Ruminants together as sub- 
divisions of one and the same order. 

Thus in every case in the earliest faunas and florae one class stood 
for many. The earliest families combined the characters of several 



ox COAL. 165 

families or classes, and stood as their representative until these fami- 
lies or classes were separately introduced. The Placoids and Ganoids, 
for instance, stood during almost the whole palfeozoic period the sole 
representatives of the vertebrate type, combining in themselves the 
characters of all classes, and thus prophesying their coming, until 
Nature was fully prepared for their introduction. The Sigillaria and 
Lepidodendron stood as the representatives of both Cryptogam and 
Phoenogam, until these two ideas were separately and more distinctly 
expressed by the subsequent introduction of the typical forms of these 
two classes. It is as if Nature first sketched out her work in general 
terms and then elaborated each subordinate idea in separate families ; 
all these families, taken together as an organic whole, still containing 
the original idea in a more completely developed form, as if the pro- 
blem of organic nature was first expressed in a few simple but com- 
prehensive symbols and then differentiated. Organic nature has 
often been compared to a broken chain, the disjointed links of which 
are the widely separated and distinctly marked families of tlie present 
fauna and flora, and the connecting links of which are to be found 
deep buried in the strata of the earth. But the complexity, the 
beauty, and, more than all, the life, growth, and development of Na- 
ture, is not to be represented by any such miserable mechanical con- 
trivance as a chain. It is rather a tree — a tree of life — a tree whose 
trunk is deeply rooted in the lowest paleozoic strata_, whose first 
giant arms are given ofi" in the carboniferous, which branch again in 
the secondary and again in the tertiary periods, while its extreme 
branchlets, and also its flower and fruit, are the fauna and flora of the 
present epoch. The object of geology is to trace each branch to its 
fellow branch, and each limb to its fellow limb, and thus gradually to 
restore the whole noble form and determine the laws of its growth. 

This differentiation, this passing from simplicity to complexity, 
from unity through diversity to a higher unity, is the fundamental 
law of development. Let me illustrate my meaning by a few simple 
examples : Tbe ultimate anatomical elemeurs of every organized body, 
whether animal or vegetable, are cells. The whole body is made up 
of cells, and all the bodily functions are performed by cells. In fact, 
the body may be looked upon as an organized community of indi- 
vidual cells. Now, if we trace these cells from their earliest condition 
in the embryo to their mature condition in the fully developed animal 
or plant, or from the lowest animal or plant regularly to the top of 
the scale, we will observe a most beautiful instance of the difteren- 
tiation of which I speak. The cells are at first all alike, simple and 
globular, and each performs all the functions appertaining to cells, 
though comparatively imperfectly. But as development advances the 
cells begin to take on different forms and to perform different func- 
tions. Some become nervous cells, some muscular cells, some biliary 
cells, &c., until, in the mature condition and in the highest animals, 
the diversity of form and specialization of function reaches the highest 
point, each form of cell being confined to the performance of a single 
function. 

If, instead of the ultimate anatomical elements, the cells, we take 
the proximate anatomical elements, the organs, or even the regions of 



166 LECTDEES. 

the body, still the same differentiation of form and specialization of 
iuction is observable as we pass from the embryonic to the mature 
condition, or from the lowest to the highest animals. I might give 
many other examples taken from the organic kingdom. I will give 
bat one other example, and that taken from a still higher kingdom. 
Human society is also an organized body, the ultimate anatomical 
elements of which are individuals. Now, in the earliest conditions of 
human society we find these elements, so far as their social functions 
are concerned, identical. Each man performs all the social functions 
apertaining to man. He is his own tailor, shoemaker, agriculturist, 
scientific man, &c. But in proportion as society advances in the same 
proportion does specialization of social functions advance, until, if we 
could conceive of a society perfectly organized on a purely material 
basis, i. e. according to the French material philosophy, then the 
social function of each individual would be reduced to the narrowest 
possible limits. This is only impossible or undesirable on account of 
man's moral and spiritual nature. Still it is no less evident that, in 
f-o far as human society is a material organization, specialization of 
lunction, differentiation is the law of development. 

Now, it will be recollected that in the geological history of animals 
and plants we have everywhere found the same differentiation of form 
and specialization of function. As in the history of the animal body, 
one cell form in the embryo was the representative of many widely 
separated cell forms in the mature animal ; so also in the geological 
liistory of that greater and more complex organism, the animal and 
vegetable kingdom, one form in the early periods stood as the repre- 
sentative of many widely separated forms in its present mature con- 
dition. Am I not justified, then, in saying that the great law which 
has governed the introduction of successive animal and vegetable spe- 
cies is that of gradual development of the animal and vegetable king- 
dom as an organic luliolef 

It seems to me that all the dispute and misunderstanding on this 
subject have been the result of too narrow a view, have arisen from fixing 
the mind upon genera and species instead of upon the larger divisions 
of classes and orders, upon the individual elements instead of the 
organic whole. Development does not necessarily involve the idea of 
])rogression in all the individual elements. In the differentiation of 
the cells of the living body, of the individuals of an advancing com- 
munity, or of the forms of an advancing fauna, the whole organism 
progresses, but as a necessary result of differentiation, while the high- 
est individuals are successively higher and higher, the lowest, consid- 
ered in themselves, and not as parts of an organized whole, may 
hecome loiver. Certainly the difference between the high and the low 
becomes constantly greater. It should not surj^rise us, then, that 
f^ome of the lowest torms of animal life have been among the latest 
introduced. It is precisely what, according to a true appreciation of 
the law of development, we should be naturally led to expect. 

Mr. Plugh Miller, the eminent Scotch geologist, in his admirable 
work, " Footprints of the Creator," by taking too limited a view of 
this subject_, has been led, if not into error, at least into a statement 
of views which has misled many. In his zeal against the Lamarck- 



ON COAL. 167 

ian theorists, and more particularly against the author of the "Ves- 
tiges of Creation," he has attempted to show that, in certain families, 
at least, the law has heen that of degradation, instead of progression. 
He has labored to prove that the earliest fishes have been the highest, 
instead of the lowest fishes, and that the earliest reptiles have been 
higher in the scale than the present reptiles. This idea has been 
seized upon by some in this country, and it has been attempted, by 
connecting it with the fall and degradation of man, to show that the 
universallaw of history, both geological and human, is degradation. 
The disciples of this melancholy philosophy believe that divine power 
successively introduced higher and higher classes, but each class, left 
to its own laws, continued to degrade itself. The Deity repeatedly 
attempted progression, by the miraculous introduction of successively 
higher classes, but some malign influence as constantly iaterposed 
and, to some extent, frustrated these attempts. 

Now, it is evident that these theorizers have never thoroughly 
grasped the fundamental idea of development. They mistake speciali- 
zation for degradation. Upon this theory all our boasted modern 
civilization, so far as it is the result of division of labor, specialization 
of social functions, and mutual dependence of parts, is degradation. 

Upon what ground are the Ganoids and Flacoids considered the 
highest fishes? Only on the ground that they combine with their 
fish characters others which ally them with the higher classes, par- 
ticularly with reptiles. In other words, they fall into the very error 
of the Laraarckians themselves, viz : that of supposing that the ani- 
mal kingdom is to be represented by a linear series, and that, there- 
fore, the highest fishes approach the lowest reptiles, and the highest 
reptiles the next higher class, &c. But the very reverse of this is the 
fact. The animal kingdom should be represented by an infinitely 
branching tree, rather than by an ascending right line ; tor we find, 
in every case, classes approach each other in the lowest members of 
each, and diverge as they ascend. Thus, it is the lowest, and not the 
highest plants, which approach the animal kingdom. As we ascend, 
they become more and more widely separated, until, in the highest 
representatives of each, the separation reaches its highest point. So 
also each branch of these kingdoms diverges from its fellow branches. 
It is, therefore, in its lowest, not its highest, members that we should 
naturally expect, according to the law of difierentiation, the class of 
fishes to approach the class of reptiles. In some sense, indeed, Fla- 
coids and Ganoids may be considered higher than typical fishes. 
Their brain and nervous system is more highly organized, their re- 
production is more complex, their young are better cared for. But 
it will be recollected that they are both connecting and embryonic 
types. Now, it is their connecting characters which seem to elevate 
them, for their true fish characters are all embryonic. As vertebrates 
they may possibly be considered higher than other fishes, but as 
fishes they must be considered low. Anatomists may place them 
high but morphologists will always place them low. If the several 
classes of the animal kingdom, diverging in various directions, be, 
as it were, projected u|)on a vertical plane, the Flacoids and Ganoids 
may possibly occupy a higher position than the typical fishes ; but_, 



168 LECTUEES. 

in such a rectilinear projection, all the variety and beauty of nature 
is lost. It is evident that, for purposes of classification, the mor- 
phologist is right ; for if the principle of the anatomists is consistently 
carried out, no classification is possible, for animals the most diverse, 
an echinoderm and a fish, may be brought together. The Divine classi- 
fier, in the introduction of species, has followed the principle of the 
morphologist. 

Geology, then, teaches, and, as it seems to me, unmistakably 
teaches, that the law of succession of animals and plants is that of 
progressive development in time of these two kingdoms. But, 
although there has been a development, it is not the development of 
the Lamarckian, of the author of the Vestiges of Creation, and the 
pantheist. The development which geology teaches is not a develop- 
ment which is the result of physical laws and physical forces. If 
there is anything which geology teaches with clearness, it is that 
the animal and vegetable kingdoms did not commence as monads, or 
vital points, but as organisms so perfect that even the maddest La- 
marckian must admit that they could not have been formed by agency 
of physical forces ; that species did not pass into one another hy trans- 
mutation, but that each species was introduced in full perfection, re- 
mained unchanged during the term of their existence, and died in 
full perfection ; that physical conditions cannot change one species 
into another, but that a species will give up its life rather than its 
specific character. In passing from the equator to the poles we pass 
from one geographical fauna to another, from one set of species to 
another, but observe no transmutation, but only substitutions ; so 
also in passing from the oldest geological to the present fauna we 
pass from one set of species to another ; not, however, by transmuta- 
tion, but always by substitution. This has been repeated so many 
thousand times in the geological history of the earth that there is 
no room for doubt on the subject. As far as the evidence of geology 
extends, each species ivas introduced hy the direct miraculous interfer- 
ence of a personal intelligence. There has, indeed, been a constantly 
increasing series, but the connexion between the terms of the series 
has not been physical or genetic, but intellectual ; not founded in the 
laws of reproduction, but in the eternal counsels of the Almighty. 
There has, indeed, been a development, but not a development the 
force of which exists within the thing developing ; but rather the de- 
velopment of a great work of art, under the hand of the Divine 
Artist — a work conceived in eternity, and elaborated throughout all 
time. What an overwhelming idea this thought gives us of the un- 
changeableness, the all-comprehensive intelligence and foreknowledge 
of the Deity ! The infinite diversity of nature, the whole idea of this 
infinite work of art, was contained in the first strokes of the Great 
Artist's pencil, and the ceaseless activity of Deity has been exercised 
only in the eternal unfolding of the original conception. 



LECTURE ON THE VASTNESS OF THE VISIBLE CREATION. 

BY PROFESSOR STEPHEN ALEXANDER OF THE COLLEGEj OF NEW JERSEY. 

My object on this occasion is, in itself, a very simple one. I desire to 
give some illustrations of the vastness of the visible creation, as made 
known by modern astronomy. I say emphatically modern astroDomy, 
for some knowledge of this science is probably nearly as old as 
the world itself. Almost from the first issuing of the great decree 
that the sun and moon should serve for signs, and for seasons, and for 
days, and for years, men have been careful to observe the heavens ; 
for the Great Creator had so written that decree upon the heavens 
themselves that men have not been slow to read the lesson thus visi- 
bly inculcated, I would observe, moreover, that the objects of astro- 
nomical research, with very trifling exceptions, are, of all others, with 
which we have to do, the most unalterable. It is almost exactly true 
that the very constellations which we now see were gazed upon by the 
antedeluvian patriarchs ; were in full view of Noah when the great 
flood of waters was upon the earth ; met the upturned eye of Abraham 
when he was led out by Divine command to behold in them the sym- 
bol of the promise ; guided the ancient Greeks in navigation, and 
still serve the modern astronomer as so many guide-points in the 
heavens. 

My purpose, as already indicated, is to illustrate, not to demonstrate. 
To accomplish the latter in a single lecture would not be practicable ; 
and certainly of astronomy, above all other sciences, it is true that it 
may throw itself on its character for veracity when it requests that its 
conclusions should be received as reliable. A science which can trace 
a comet in its course, where no eye has had even a telescopic view of 
it for three-quarters of a century, and bring it back by computation 
correctly almost to a day, or which can predict an eclipse a century 
hence as readily as one that will occur this year, and to whose accu- 
racy experience throughout bears such abundant testimony — such a 
science may fearlessly throw itself on its character for veracity. Be- 
fore I proceed, however, to elucidate the subject, let me call attention 
for a moment to an old-fashioned problem, whose bearings upon the 
subject will, I trust, be presently seen. I allude to the problem of the 
price of a horse, in which a farthing was allowed for the first nail in his 
shoes, two for the second, four for the third, and so on. There were 
thirty-two nails in all, and yet, from the small beginning of a farthing, 
owing to this doubling thirty-one times, the value of the horse was only 
to be computed in millions of pounds. Now, with reference to the 
subject of astronomy, we shall have occasion to see that, though com- 
mencing with a comparatively moderate unit, we shall advance upon 
a similar plan, but much more rapidly. Keeping, then, in view the 
illustration already given, you will at once see how gigantic, after a 
very few steps, must be the last result compared with the first. Our 
first object to-night will be to gain some idea of the size of the earth 
itself, on which we stand. The half diameter of the earth is the 



170 LECTURES. 

measuring unit with wliicli to conapare the distance of the earth from 
the sun, and thus obtain a new unit with which afterwards to compare 
the distances of the other planets. To give a just idea of the size of 
the earth we will avail ourselves of the largest tangible measure at- 
tainable, that is, the highest mountain on the earth's surface. The 
highest mountains are the Himalayas, their altitude being five and 
a half miles. Now, we do not exaggerate when we say that, if we 
could uncover the base of one of those mountains, it would cover four 
times the original area of the District of Columtjia, or the surface of 
one of the ordinary counties of our States, rising above that surface 
to the height of five and a half miles, about equal to the height of 
Chimborazo added to that of the highest of the Alps. This shall be 
our standard of comparison with regard to the magnitude of the earth. 
Such a mountain is rather more than Y^io" <^^ ^^^ earth's diameter or 
about y\-o of its radius. In making the comparison, after the ordi- 
nary mode, two difficulties present themselves. It is said that, if you 
represent the earth by a globe, the highest mountain on its sur- 
face may be represented by a small grain of sand. You thus proceed 
from the greater to the less^ whereas, in nature, we must proceed from 
the less to the greater. Besides, a grain of sand is too small to give 
an adequate idea of the matter to be illustrated. To avoid this we 
shall make use of a scale sufiiciently large to present the mountain 
distinctly, and shall proceed in the natural order from the less to the 
greater. This diagram before me is thirty-nine feet six inches in 
length, and is intended to represent two radii of the earth opening to 
the extent of one degree. At the further end of it is a blue band, 
representing the atmosphere, and immediately beneath which is a 
small row of mountains. Their heights, on this scale, is a trifle less 
than two-thirds of an inch, and their actual height, as compared with 
the real half diameter of the earth, is as two-thirds of an inch com- 
pared with thirty-nine and a half feet, and doubling the half diameter 
we shall have the ratio of two-thirds of an inch to seventy-nine feet. 
Below the row of mountains you have a dark blue band, representing 
the ocean. Below that again a darker portion still, representing that 
portion of the earth's crust through which you must go to find a red 
heat, and beyond that you have the red color continued until it passes 
into whiteness ; it indicates the depth at which we would probably 
arrive at a white heat. 

[It would be impossible, in a wood-cut, to do justice to the illustra- 
tion here explained by the lecturer. The explanation itself will 
doubtless be sufficient.] 

The diameter of the earth is, then, a very large unit in comparison 
with the height of the highest mountain. The circumference, of 
course, is more than three times the diameter. If you should attempt 
to walk around the earth at the rate of twenty miles a day, three 
years and five months would be spent in completing the circuit; and if 
you should fly around it at the rate at which the steam car travels, say 
thirty miles an hour, you would accomplish its circuit in thirty-four and 
a half days ; but, if its circumference be great in comparison with ordi- 
nary standards, its surface in comparison with that of a sphere of 
ordinary size must be still more enormous. The illustrations, I would 



THE VISIBLE CREATION. 171 

remark, that I give you here, are most of them originally devised, and 
the results in all cases verified hy actual computation. We could not 
pass over the surface of the earth and take a good look at the surface 
at a more rapid rate than that of twenty square miles a day, and yet 
this would occupy us a period of 27,090 years. To view that portion 
of the earth which is inhabited, if we should estimate it at but one- 
fourth of the whole, would, at the same rate of progress, require 6,750 
years ; or to view the habitable portion of the surface of the earth would 
require, in the case of the same individual, provided he could live so 
long, more than the time from the creation of man down to the present 
day to walk. If the surface of the earth be so large, its capacity, of 
course^ compared with an ordinary standard, will be found to be to it 
in a still greater ratio. The largest tangible measure, as I have said, 
is the largest mountain on the earth's surface. Suppose such a moun- 
tain to be regularly shaped, and to have a diameter of twenty miles at 
the base, it would then contain 576 cubic or solid miles of material. 
Make use of that huge body as the unit of measurement of the bulk of 
the earth, and the bulk of the earth would contain it 450,000,000 of 
times, and even more. How can we appreciate so large a number? 
We find it even difficult to form an idea how large a number a mil- 
lion is ; we may obtain some idea of the vastness of numbers, such as 
those in quf^stion, by ascertaining the time required to count them. 
If, then, you should count at the rate of two per second, continuing the 
work for eight hours a day, twenty-one years and five months would be 
spent in counting the number which expresses the bulk of the earth 
in comparison with that of the mountain. Perhaps I do not exag- 
gerate the matter when I say, that the most accurate idea of a bulk so 
vast may be obtained by regarding the image which we frame to our- 
selves when we attempt to form an idea of infinite space. As we 
cannot grasp infinity this image must have a dim and misty outline ; 
but it may be that it approaches more nearly than anything else to 
presenting an adequate idea of the actual size of the earth. 

Having obtained some idea of the size of the earth let us proceed a step 
further, not in the way of doubling, but much faster. In so doing we 
next notice the distance of the earth from the moon, which is represented 
here on a much smaller scale than that employed in our first figure. 
The distance from the centre of the earth to the centre of the moon is 
about sixty radii, or thirty diameters of the earth. The magnificent 
appendage of Saturn compares very well in size with this, its diame- 
ter being about twenty times that of the earth. We pass from this to 
the diameter of the sun, which is about one hundred and twelve times 
that of the earth, and, of course, the surface is more than ten thou- 
sand times the surface of the earth. The scale we have at first adopted 
we should find to be inadequate to compare the earth with the sun. 
No ordinary apartment could contain the necessary illustration. The 
scale has therefore been reduced a thousand times, instead of being 
that of a hundred miles to a foot. This diagram is constituted on a 
scale of 100,000 miles to a foot. On it the earth has shrunk down to 
3^0*0 of an inch in diameter. This, then, [pointing to the figure,] is 
the relative size of the sun, 112 diameters of the earth being equal to 
tbe diameter of the sun. The liveliest imagination^ however exer- 



172 



LECTURES. 



cised, can form no adequate idea of the size of this magnificent luminary 
of the day. Its surface occupies an area greater than that of twice ten 
thousand oceans, each larger than the Pacific. And this surface is 
tossed into waves of intense brilliancy, beneath which the Himalayas 
would be buried and "melt with fervent heat;" and whether we 
regard him as issuing from the chambers of the east, he commences 
like a giant to run his course ; or whether in unveiled meridian splen- 
dor, he almost seems to pause a moment to gaze upon a world rejoicing 
in his presence, or enwrapped in robes of surpassing magnificence he 
sinks to rest at night ; under any and all these points of view, he is 
at once the fitting representative and chosen emblem of all that is 
good and beautiful. 

From the size of the sun we proceed, in the next place, to that of 
the diameter of the earth's orbit. But I would observe, in passing, 
that the relative size of most of the planets is represented in this 
diagram. Thus, we have that of Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn, &c. The moon is represented by a ball, the size of a pea, at 




Upper line — 1. Mercury. 2. Venus. 3. Earth. 4. Mars. 5. Moon. 6. Jupiter. 
Lower line — 7. Saturn and the three largest of his satellites. 8. Uranus, with the two 
large satellites. 9. Neptune, with his satellites. 

the place to which I now point, almost touching the sun. That rep- 
resents the comparative size of the moon. The distance from the 
centre to the surface of the sun is one and two-thirds the distance of 
the moon from the earth, which itself is thirty diameters of the earth. 



THE VISIBLE CREATION. 173 

The distance of tlie earth from the sun is about 12,000 diameters 
of the earth, or, if we proceed in the other way, multiplying the 
last unit, we shall find it to be 107 diameters of the sun, vast as is 
that body in extent. To travel this distance at the rate of thirty 
miles an hour, going on continually, would occupy three hundred 
and sixty two years and seven months ; and merely to count it at 
at the rate already mentioned, that of two per second for eight 
hours of every day, would fully occupy four and a half years ; 
and yet more than three times this distance the earth travels every 
year. To turn around but once in a year requires but a very slow 
angular motion. Imagine the hand of a dial-plate to turn around 
only once in a year, how large the dial-plate must be in order that we 
might see the motion at all ; yet in completing its circuit the earth 
travels at the rate of nineteen miles per second ; or, while I de- 
liberately say to you, it moves, we are borne nineteen miles. This 
result cannot be in error by more than its two hundred and thirty- 
pecond part. When nearest to the sun, which is about the last of 
December, we travel about three-tenths of a mile per second faster 
than this, and about the first of July three-tenths of a mile slower. 
Even this excess of velocity is fearful. Who could think of being 
conveyed, mechanically, over the surface of the earth at the rate of 
three-tenths of a mile per second. 

We are now compelled again to reduce our scale, and, instead of one, 
one hundred thousand miles to the foot, make use of one, two hundred 
millions of miles to a foot; and thus the sun, though magnificent in 
comparison with the earth, shrinks down and becomes no larger 
than the head of a pin. The orbit of the earth is represented by a 
white curve, to which the rod now points. Here we have the dis- 
turbed regions of the smaller planets, and there we have portions of 
that of Uranus and the most remote of the known planets, Neptune. 
This long and complete curve is the orbit of Halley's comet. ^ The 
distance of the earth from the sun being now taken as our unit, the 
distance of Neptune will be thirty times that, or thirty times ninety- 
five million miles. Of course, to travel it at thirty miles per day 
continuously would occupy about ten thousand eight hundred and 
seventy-five years. Five distances of the earth from the sun from 
the place of Neptune would carry you to the end of the orbit of Hal- 
ley's comet. The distance from this, again, to the nearest star is, we 
had almost said, a void of immense extent compared, with that 
which we have already had to do. It is scarcely worth while to re- 
gard miles at all in speaking of the distance of a star ; the number 
becomes so large that we cannot grasp it. We may, however^ obtain 
a speaking illustration of the enormous distance of the nearest of the 
fixed stars by ascertaining what must represent it in comparison with 
the small globe which I hold in my hand, which has a diameter of 
three inches. We must despair any more of illustrating distances so 
vast by any picture, however large. We are not about to deal in mag- 
nificent oriental fiction, but with ascertained facts. Let this globe rep- 
resent the earth ; then one hundred and seventeen thousand five hun- 
dred miles will represent the distance of the nearest fixed star. 

It is useless, almost^ to state how long it would take to count 



174 LECTURES. 

this distance — one hundred and seventeen thousand years would 
thus be occupied ; and, if you thought of travelling it at all, you 
would find that it could not he accomplished in seventy-four mil- 
lions of years. Having thus ascended where the nearest of the 
fixed stars are, let us, in the next place, ascertain wha,t they are — 
whether planets or suns, or what ? We all know with how much 
facility we see a bright light, though it may be very small. A can- 
dle or taper can be seen in foggy weather long before the building 
containing it ; and even in the case of reflected light, the merest 
spicula of glass, how brightly it shines, and how readily it can be dis- 
tinguished from the dark substances surrounding it. The light of a 
star must be very intense, for even when highly magnified by a 
telescope, so that its light is enfeebled, it yet shines brightly, though 
appearing nearly as a mere point ; and if the light of it is reflected 
light why do we not see the body that illuminates the star ? What 
is that body ? It cannot be the sun, because, even at the very moderate 
distance of the planets, it becomes very feeble ; if, then, we could 
suppose the light coming from the stars to be reflected lights we 
would be at a loss to discover the luminous body that shines upon 
them. But it has been ascertained, by careful experiment, that the 
light of the very brightest fixed star, Sirius or the Dog star, which, 
if the nigiit were clear, my audience might see as they passed out of 
the lecture room — we say it has been ascertained that the actual light 
emitted by this star, (with quite a probable allowance for distance,) 
is full sixty-three times that of our sun ; such is not always the 
case, as some stars do not give quite as much light as the sun. But 
it is true, notwithstanding, that if many of the stars are not suns they 
are more. It is unnecessary to contend about the name, for you must 
either call them suns or invent a name which shall inean a larger 
thing. When we make the statement that all the fixed stars are suns, 
are we aware of the sublimity involved in that statement ? I under- 
took to show my audience, as well as I could, a short time ago, what 
constituted a single sun ; but it is also true that the tiny ray which 
gladdens our eye, as shooting from some twinkling star, it trembles in 
the casement ; it is true that this is a miniature sunbeam, and the 
faint and feeble glow of starlight, which sometimes, like a semi- 
transparent veil, covers the fair face of nature is woven of the 
scattered glory of thousands of suns. In the very fact that it is thus 
but faint and feeble we have the most speaking illustration of their 
awful distance ; when we arrive at such a distance as this, it becomes 
quite evident that such a unit as the earth's distance from the sun is 
altogether too small. The distance of the earth from the sun must be 
taken some 500,000 times or more, in order to make a comparison, and 
we must therefore resort to something that will give us an adequate 
measuring unit. This may be found in the velocity of progression of 
the light which comes from the stars themselves. According to two 
different and independent results this velocity is about 192,000 miles 
per second ; the distance of the earth from the sun will thus be repre- 
sented by 85 minutes. It takes a very trifle more than that for 
light to pass from the sun to the earth. The Ifght comes from a 
Centauri, the nearest of the fixed stars, in 3| years ; from 61 in the 



THE VISIBLE CREATION. 175 

Swan in 9^ years ; from Arcturus in 26 years ; from the Polar star in 
48 years ; and from Capella in 70f years ; or Capella, the beautiful star 
in the Goat, is seen by the light which left it nearly three-quarters of 
a century ago, and has been travelling at the rate of one hundred 
and ninety-two thousand miles per second during the whole of that 
interval. 

Let us next notice the combinations of the stars. It is a very 
curious circumstance, to say the least, that wherever we direct the 
telescope to the heavens we shall find the stars combined in pairs ; 
and so frequently does this combination occur that we cannot regard 
it as the result of accidental position. It is true that when two stars 
are almost one behind the other they might not appear to be very far 
apart, though really at very different distances from us ; but by careful 
measurement, in some cases, it has been ascertained that they are 
really, as well as apparently, near. In fact they are connected to- 
gether, and revolve around each other, as is the case with the earth 
and sun. We have here represented two or three such double stars. 
Tnere is one in Gemini ; also one in Scorpio, one of the two stars 
being blue and the other yellow. The blue star does not show well, 
unless in a very good light ; but the representation is therefore the 
more true to nature, the sky being itself so blue that it is more diffi- 
cult to see such a star. Red and yellow stars are also of frequent 
occurrence ; and in the case of the beautiful star in Andromeda, the 
two individual stars are, the one rose color, and the other green ; the 
colors of the double stars are complementary, or such as, when com- 
bined together, form a white light, the star appearing white and 
single to the bare eye. We can perceive something extremely elegant 
in the arrangement if planets should circulate around these red or 
green suns ; then a red or a green light would be seen as long as it 
alone were visible ; but a white light, when both suns were above the 
horizon, poetic fancy never sketched anything more sublimely elegant 
than this combination of tinted suns, these parti-colored gems which 
sparkle in the diadem which surrounds the dark brow of night. 

We come now to a more extensive combination of stars. We cannot 
look at the sky with any sort of attention even once without perceiving 
an amazing collection of the stars in the direction of one singla great 
band or girdle. This constitutes what is called the milky way. 
Throughout one half of its circuit it is divided into at least two parts. 
Most of the stars in heaven are situated in one part, and in the other 
portions of the sky the stars are comparatively sparse. The attempt 
was made by Sir William Herschel to ascertain the relative distance 
of the fixed stars before the actual distance of any of them was deter- 
mined. Some idea may be formed of this by ascertaining how many 
more can be seen in one direction rather than another, as we might 
judge of the extent of a crowded audience in one direction rather than 
in another, by ascertaining how many could be seen in the one and in 
the other direction. A better method of sounding the heavens, as it was 
called, consisted in using successively telescopes of greater and greater 
space-penetrating power. The space-penetrating power may be ascer- 
tained by comparing the brightness of the beam of light emitted by a 
telescope with that seen by the bare eye. The science of optics will 
readily enable us to ascertain that. Then, if we bear in mind that light 



176 LECTURES. 

at twice tlie distance is four times as feeble, &c., it will be seen tliat a 
telescope which would increase the intensity of light to four times that of 
the light seen by the bare eye might enable us to see twice as far, &c. 

By making use of a telescope of a greater and greater space-pene- 
trating power Sir William Herschel, in investigating portions of the 
milky way, continued to see new stars up to the twenty-eighth 
order of distance. The borders of the milky way are supposed to 
be at the nine hundredth order of distance. If this be so the 
time of the arrival of light from the borders of the milky way must 
not be measured by a single year, but by centuries ; in fact, so far as 
we may rely on the conclusions of Dr. Madler, the distance of the 
centre of this our group from us, as thus estimated, is 537 years. He 
concludes, moreover, that the stars in the milky way and our sun 
with them revolve at the rate of once in about eighteen million years. 
"Whether we regard this as accurately ascertained or not, very certain 
it is that the sun and ell planets are moving in the regions of space. 

The researches of Herschel, Argelander, Struve, and others, have 
all contributed to point out very accurately a single spot in the heav- 
ens, towaids which we are incessantly travelling by a motion very 
slow when we consider the magnitude of the orbit, the distance trav- 
elled being about four-fifths of the diameter of the earth's orbit every 
year. When we scrutinize the outskirts of the milky way and at- 
tempt to see beyond it, we find what seems to be an entirely detached 
combination of stars. If what we see in them be stars only about the 
size of those in the milky way we might readily conclude that they 
were at no greater distance ; but it may be that what are apparently 
single stars are themselves combinations. These groups are called 
clusters. This is the representation of a coarse cluster. We find others 
much more closely arranged, as in the figure, where they are repre- 
sented by a white, powdery substance. The stars near the centre are 
not to be counted by hundreds. When clusters become so remote that 
you cannot make out the individual stars you may still discern clus- 
ters of a granular shape and appearance in their structure ; or that 
they are made up of a "star dust," an expression sublime from 
its very simplicity. In this quasi crystalline mass the molecules are 
double stars, the ultimate particles are suns, and the atoms, if any, 
are planets. If the cluster be a globular one it may also be true that 
all the stars, the outer ones only excepted, are revolving around the 
centre in the self-same time. Beyond these still are the nebulaB, some 
of which the most powerful telescopes have failed to resolve; that is, 
have i'ailed to show that they are made up of stars. In other cases 
they are found to be made up of stars, and resolvable. We cannot 
positively assert that there is no cloudy-looking substance existing 
in the heavens which is not made up in this way ; some appear- 
ances, surrounding stars, cannot as yet be resolved. Other whole 
nebula3 cannot yet be resolved by telescopes of large space-penetrating 
power. Some idea of the distance of a nebula not resolvable may be 
obtained by ascertaining the space-penetrating power which will cause 
that nebula to present the appearance put on by another before power 
suflScient was applied to resolve it; and thus, comparing the powers 
employed in the two cases, we arrive at a distance so great as that a 
comparison by means of the velocity of light itself becomes almost 



THE VISIBLE CEEA.TION. 177 

inadequate. Even liglit, (which could we thus curb its motion would 
girdle the earth in a twinkling,) which rebounds to us from the moon 
in a second and a quarter, and which, springing from its home in the 
sun, visits the most distant of the known planets and returns in 
less than a day, even this swiftly flying messenger, borne upon the 
very wings of the morning, can only reach us from those remote 
bounds after the lapse of centuries. Admitting all this to be true, 
then, although an accurate result is here no longer possible, there is 
a reasonable probability that the sublime idea presented by Huygens 
is itself a fact; that some of these bodies are so remote that the light 
by which we see them must have left them before the creation of man. 
There is something almost awful in the thought of our having arrived 
at a reasonable probability that we see these objects as they were be- 
fore the race of man had being ; to behold, as it were, the record of 
eternity past, unrolled to be read in time. We are compelled to view 
them from such a distance looking towards them; but in imagination 
we may place ourselves at the other extremity of the line thus defined, 
then the light from the earth and solar system would have been as 
long in reaching that position as the light from the other way has been 
in reaching us ; and if we had the optical power and could look down 
upon the earthy then the mastodon, which is now a mere fossil in our 
cabinets, would be seen as the living, moving^ breathing mastodon. 
The I'act, in more general terms, is this: There are portions of the uni- 
verse through which the visible record of very much that is great 
and awful that has been transacted here is still travelling through the 
regions of space^ and might be discerned by a being provided with 
sufficient optical power. I think it necessary to notice but one thing 
more. The fixed stars are not merely like the sun in the intensity of 
their light, but, it would also seem, in revolving around their axes. 
We ascertain that the sun revolves around its axis by noticing the 
spots on its surface. When there are many spots towards us the light 
of the sun must be enfeebled, sometimes even sensibly so. There are 
variable stars that periodically become dim and then again resume 
their former brightness. The natural solution of this fact is that these 
stars are like the sun, not merely in their light, but also in the way in 
which that light is produced. Perhaps upon their surface there are 
spots which, when turned towards us, cause their light to become dim, 
and when away from us there is an increase of brightness. There are 
stars also which may be called temporary stars ; for after appearing 
in the heavens a brief period they become seemingly very small or they 
disappear altogether, a fact which can hardly well be accounted for, 
except by the supposition that there has been a real physical change 
in the body itself. In undergoing these changes, changes in color have 
also been manifest, so great that we may suppose that there has been 
a combustion or partial destruction of the body in question. The star 
seen by Anshelm in 1670 was of the third magnitude, passed through 
great fluctuations of light for two years, and then became either ex- 
cessively small or quite invisible. There are, moreover, lost stars, 
whose places are now vacant, though some cf them have been recently 
observed. When we look at these strange fluctuations we may sup- 
pose that something like combustion has taken place^ or that, for the 

12 s 



178 LECTURES. 

time being, its power of giving light has been suspended. In reviewing 
these facts it appears difficult not to conclude that here was a world 
whose destiny was, for the time being, completed, and the fitful glare 
of whose gorgeous funeral pile shooting across almost the vast distance 
which separates us came with undiminished velocity to tell us the tale 
that once it was. However this may be, we certainly know that He 
who, ''by His strength, setteth fast the mountains, being girded 
with power," hath also *' of old laid the foundation of the earth, and 
the heavens are the work of his hands. They shall perish but He shall 
endure ; yea, all of them shall wax old, like a garment, and as a ves- 
ture shall He change them, and they shall be changed ; but He is the 
same and his years shall have no end;" for " He inhabiteth eternity 
and the praises thereof." 



METEOROLOGY. 



COMMUNICATION FROM A. FENDLER. 

COLONIA TOVAR, VENEZUELA, SoUTH AMERICA, 

August 5, 1856. 

Dear Sir : I sailed from Philadelphia on the 5th of May, and 
arrived at Laguayra three weeks after. Colonia Tovar I reached on 
the 7th of June, and commenced my meteorological observations on 
the 10th. The barometer and the dry and wet bulb thermometers, 
which by your kindness I received from Mr. Green, I have brought 
home safe and in good order. 

Accompanying this I send you two registers of meteorological ob- 
servations of the month of June and July, 1856 ; and here I have to 
make the following remarks : 

1. As I am very much interested in the results of the observations, 
I need not say that I pay the most particular care and attention to 
the condition of the instruments, as well as to the nicety in taking 
observations and in noting them down. 

2. The column under the head of " Barometer height reduced to 
freezing point/' I could not fill up for want of the necessary tables. 

3. By comparing my old thermometer, which is one of the more 
common kinds, marked " T. Barry, London," with the Smithsonian 
dry bulb thermometer, I found that the former is from one and a half 
to five degrees too high ; so that I was obliged to use the dry bulb of 
the psychrometer also as thermometer in the open air. The wet bulb 
was therefore exposed to the open air also. According to the first 
principles of evaporation it is, however, evident that the more rapid 
the motion of air is which touches the wet bulb the more energetic 
will be the evaporation of the water contained in the wet linen, and 
the lower will the mercury sink. This I found to be confirmed by 
every breeze, and even the ligtitest breath of wind that happened to 
strike the wet bulb at the time I took observations. I therefore regard 
all observations with the psychrometer, that are not taken in a calm 
atmosphere, or in an atmosphere the velocity of which at the time of 
observation is known, as of little value. 

As I had no other standard thermometer besides the dry and wet 
bulb, I can give the psychrometrical observations only, with the re- 
mark that they are worth just as much as all other such observations 
made in the open air without regard to the currents of the atmo- 
sphere. In future I shall try to shelter the wet bulb against the 
influence of wind at the time of observation, 

4. As I have no rain gage I can only put down the time of be- 
ginning and ending of rain. 

5. With regard to clouds I may say, that the higher clovids are 
mostly hidden from view by the masses of lower clouds, so that the 
course of the former can very seldom be ascertained in the rainy 
season, and, when seen, there are several strata, one above the other. 
Instead of the higher clouds, I have carefully noticed and put down 



180 METEOROLOGY. 

the course of the loiver clouds, under the head of "winds." The 
motion of these lower clouds may justly be said to indicate the real 
course of the wind ; for in such a mountainous country as this the 
atmosphere at the bottom of the kettle-shaped valley of the colony, 
is set in motion by a great number of local causes, and this motion 
is changed and modified by the many ravines and watercourses, and 
by every slope of the irregularly shaped mountains. The colony is 
surrounded by mountain ridges, crowned by several peaks. These 
barriers open only in one direction, towards the east, where they form 
an outlet for the river Tuy, which has its sources in the neighboring 
fields and adjacent forests. In such a region as this it is next to im- 
possible to note, even in one narrow district, all the diiferent little 
breaths and jerks of wind, which frequently change every moment. 

As to the motion ot the lower clouds, they frequently showed a 
velocity which I estimated at about 7 miles per hour ; and as there is 
no number corresponding to this velocity in the tables, I introduced 
the number " 2^," which means 7 miles per hour. 

Fog is a considerable item in this region in the rainy season, and I 
have accordingly noted it down under the head of " kinds of clouds." 
Thunder and lightning are very rare here, and when they occur 
they make so little show that, with regard to force, they may be com- 
pared to those of the United States as the zephyr to a strong gale. 
In the register I have noted them down in the margin. 

Tornadoes I have never seen in thecolony_, not even a gale of wind, 
within the two and a half years that I have been living here. Hail 
storms are unknown in this part of the country. 

Of the 48 observations recorded in July, at 7 a. m. and 2 p. m., on 
the course of the lower clouds, 10 are E., 15 E.SE., and 15 8E., which 
shows the prevailing winds to be between E. and SE. Their mean 
velocity is a fraction over four miles per hour. 

Of rain, fog, mist, and clouds, we had more than a sufficiency, the 
mean cloudiness being 6.4. 

The weather has been so unfavorable since my return from the 
States that I have not yet measured any of the neighboring heights 
and passes by barometer. 

The thermometer in the open air shows a mean temperature of 58.3 
for the month of July, a rather low temperature for the height of 
6,500 feet in latitude 10° 26'. The minimum of the month was 54°, 
the maximum 69°. 

I also inclose the half-hourly and hourly barometrical observations 
for seven days, made in order to ascertain the hour of maximum and 
minimum of the daily periodical variations. And here I found that 
these variations within the tropics, at least at the colony, are not so 
regular as we sometimes find stated in books. As, for instance, the 
following: "Such is the regularity with which these motions are 
efiected within the equatorial zones that they might there serve to 
give the true time of the day." — (Nicollet, Essay on Meteor. Observ., 
page 7.) Eor we find maximums at 9^ a. m., 10, 11, 12 m., and 
minimums at 4 p. m., 4^, 5, 5^, 6^ 6|, 7, and all this within the short 
period of seven days. This irregularity is the more remarkable, as the 
colony is a place where none of the extremes of heat and cold, or of 



METEOROLOGY. 181 

gales, hurricanes, and thunder storms are felt, that could disturb the 
equilibrium of the atmosphere. 

Besides the two registers and the hourly observations, I have copied 
for you and inclosed the thermometrical observations for 12 months in 
1854 and 1855. These have been taken with my old thermometer, 
which proves to be from 1^ to 5 degrees too high, as compared with 
the Smithsonian thermometer. Although this would make the mean 
temperature of the year about 3 degrees too high, we are still enabled 
to make some comparisons between the different months, which show 
that from August the mean monthly temperature is gradually sinking 
till January, which is the coldest month. After January it rises 
again till May, and then sinks till July. This seems to inlicate that 
the rising and falling of the mean temperature keeps equal pace with 
the declination of the sun. If we now compare the means of the dif- 
ferent hours of the day of each month, we find that the highest tem- 
perature of the day is not at 2 or 8 p. m., as in the United States, but 
at 12 o'clock at noon, and that the temperature at 3 p. m. is but a 
fraction greater than that at 9 a. m. In five months of the year it is 
nearly or quite the same with that at 9 a. m., viz: from November 
till March, inclusive; during the other part of the year, from May 
till September, inclusive, the mean temperature is higher at 3 p. m. 
than at 9 a. m., with the exception of October and April, where the 
temperature at 3 is even lower than that at 9 ; and these are the two 
months which follow immediately after the equinoxes. Another curi- 
ous fact is the sudden rise of mean temperature from July to August. 
In Santa Fe de Bogota, in 4° 35' north latitude, July is said to be 
even the coldest month of the year. 

Some other facts could, no doubt, be drawn from this register by com- 
parison, if its observations were founded upon a standard thermometer. 

On the last page of this register of Colonia Tovar you will find 
some observations, taken with the same thermometer, of "'Barry," 
during my stay at Chagres, on the Isthmus of Panama. 

During my absence from the colony last winter some persons here, 
who can be relied upon, have seen white frost one morning. This is 
of extremely rare occurrence, but anyhow very remarkable for the 
latitude of 10° 26', even at the height of 6,500 feet. 

The characteristics of this region are its clouded sky, its equable tem- 
perature, and its great amount of moisture. It is the '^' happy 
region of the ferns," where these interesting plants find their most 
suitable climate and grow in the greatest profusion. Here it is where 
the stately tree-fern sometimes is seen to reach a height of 40 feet. 

The produce most profitable to raise in the colony are potatoes, rye, 
and oats. The apple tree grows side by side with the banana. The 
strawberry is found in the greatest abundance, spontaneously grow- 
ing about the fields. Indian corn does not come to maturity here, 
while I have seen it raised and matured in Santa Fe, New Mexico, 
which is at least 700 feet higher than the colony, and besides this is 
near 36° north latitude. But in New Mexico they have a cloudless sky 
nearly the whole year round and an extremely dry atmosphere, while 
the colonists of Tovar are not much molested from the beginning of 
May to the beginning of January by the rays of the sun. 



182 METEOROLOGY. 

The valley in which Colonia Tovar is situated was, so late as De- 
cember, 1S41, a perfect wilderness, covered with primitive forest. 
Not even the existence of this valley was known fifteen years ago, 
neither to the government nor to its owner, although it is only thirty- 
five miles west of Caracas, the capital of Venezuela, and in a straight 
line cannot be more than twelve miles from the sea. And when an 
attempt was made to explore this region not even a guide could he 
found for the small exploring party of fifteen men, headed by Colonel 
Codazzi, a skillful officer and compiler of the new map of Venezuela. 
When this party at last succeeded in crossing this region and reaching 
the sea-shore, they thought they had achieved a most extraordinary 
thing, (to cross a distance of twelve miles in six days;) and after they 
had returned to their homes none of them had a desire to do the feat 
over again. This was a party of natives. And when, at a later 
period, after the establishment of the colony, another skillful engi- 
neer found, with a party of colonists, his way to the opposite port of 
the sea-shore, the party did not venture to go back the same route, but 
rather chose the way by sea to Laguayra, from there to Caracas and 
back to the colony, a very circuitous route certainly. Such is the 
nature of this mountain region, with its precipices, waterfalls, deep 
ravines, and its dense, almost impenetrable primeval forests. 

In collecting botanical specimens, I have penetrated, without a com- 
panion, the wilderness around in different directions, also that on the 
other side of the principal mountain range towards the sea, and can 
testify to the difficulties and hardships which are met with in. exploring 
such a country. On excursions of this kind the most needful thing 
besides a comjiass is a short sabre, called "machetta," which I have 
to use continually in cutting through the lianos, the erect and climbing 
canes, the under shrub, which is all matted and intermingled in a 
thousand different ways into a dense mass of vegetation. 

In these woods, where the rays of the sun never touch the ground, 
there it is Avhere moisture and a cool temperature reign forever. The 
trunk of every tree and its branches are covered with Ferns, Lyco- 
podiaceee, Kosses, Hepaticfe, Lichens, Orchids, Bromeliads, Aracece 
and besides Piperacce with many exogenous plants too numerous to 
mention.. 

The soil in these forests is one entire mass of slender rootlets most 
completely intei mingled and interwoven, more than a foot in thickness, 
the interstices filled with a brown but imperfectly decomposed vege- 
table mould, which is kept in its place by the network of the rootlets. 
This stratum is covered with mosses and remnants of leaves, so that 
on the mountain ridges not only the ground, but also the trunks and 
branches of the trees, act like a thick layer of sponges in retaining the 
water that either pours down in form of rain or settles more slowly 
in the form of mist and clouds. This water is allowed to trickle and 
sink down but very gradually, and is, therefore, a never-failing source 
from which are constantly fed the many little rivulets that hurry down 
the steep declivities into their common receptacle^ the narrow chasm 
of the river Tuy, which, in one continued row of cascades, rushes 
thundering down SE. and S. until after a run of twenty miles, turn- 
ing suddenly to the east^ it finds a more level country. 



METEOROLOGY. 183 

In the depth of such a mass of vegetation, when man is by himself, 
a feeling of loneliness takes the ascendency over every other emotion ; 
no animal is seen, and but seldom the voice of a bird heard. While 
on the sea-side of the mountains I was only made twice aware of the 
vicinity of a bird in two days. In the neighborhood of farms and 
habitations of men a greater variety of birds are seen and heard, and 
sometimes the grunting or howling of monkeys and the deafening 
cry of parrots. 

The dry season commences here generally soon after New Year's 
day and lasts till the end of April. The remainder of the year is 
taken up by the rainy season. This is generally so, for there are many 
exceptions, and our notions about the great regularity and sharply 
defined seasons of the tropics, which we have received from books, are 
sometimes materially upset and corrected by experience. When I first 
came to the colony, in March, 1854, we had a dr}- season in its usual 
way. The rainy season then commenced on the 23d of April, but it 
did not end with the latter part of December, as is usually the case; 
it lasted till the end of January, and commenced again with the first 
of March, and then kept uniformly on till the end of December, 1855. 
The dry season was, therefore, only of one month's duration instead of 
four. The last dry season has been, on the contrary, unusually long, 
and lasted till the latter part of May. 

I have often thought that the climate of North America may stand 
in some kind of relation to the climate of this country. It was on 
the 24th of December, 1853, when I left New York, to sail for La- 
guayra. We were hardly out of sight of land when a i'urious NW. 
gale, a real hurricane, (which is still in fresh remembrance with some 
of the captains I have lately seen,) during a period of three days threat- 
ened our destruction. Atter my arrival in Venezuela I was told that 
about Christmas, 1853, one of the most fearful gales from the north was 
telt at Laguayra.* Another question is, whether the late remarkably 
dry and cold winter of the United States and the unusually long dry 
season of Venezuela, as also the remarkable appearance of white frost 
in the colony, are not connected in some way or other. 

As to the trade winds, I found on my trip from Philadelphia to 
Laguayra that within the tropics we had no E.NE. wind, which is 
thought to be the regular trade winds of those regions. After cross- 
ing latitude 23^°, in longitude 684°, we were becalmed for one day, and 
soon after got a fresh breeze from the south, which we kept all the 
way to longitude 63^. By tacking we got to latitude 22°, longitude 
63^°. From thence we had the wind all the time from S.SE , which 
we kept to latitude 11|° the day before we reached Laguayra. Capt. 
Wilkins, who has been in this southern trade for eighteen years, 
assured me that within the last eight years he never could depend 
much upon the trade winds. He finds that between latitude 23° and 
18° the south wind frequently keeps on blowing very brisk for eight 
days in succession. 

On the way from the colony to' Caracas, along the high ridge of 
the principal mountain chain, which stretches E. and W., parallel 

■^ See page 188. 



184 METEOROLOGY. 

with the coast, at an elevation of from 7,000 to 8,000 feet, we travel 
about six miles over a region hare of forest, where we nearly at all 
times find a very strong breeze from the south, rushing up the declivity 
and over the ridge, hurries off to the north towards the ocean. The 
ocean can be plainly seen from this elevation. That this great current 
of air does not sink down along the northern slope, but, on the con- 
trary, is somewhat projected upwards by tlie shape of the mountain, 
can be seen by the course of the condensed vapors which, in the form 
of fog and mist, are driven along. May not this current of air sink 
gradually lower and lower until it reaches about latitude 18°, where 
jt strikes the sea? I have found this south wind at sea always much 
colder than any of the other winds in these latitudes. 

I wish I was in possession of some good work on the winds and the 
currents of the ocean. 

Vegetation at the colony is uninterrupted throughout the whole 
year, except in a small class of plants which cannot thrive without a 
great deal of moisture. Even in the dry season, when the lower re- 
gions are parched up with heat, if there is any moisture at all in 
the atmosphere capable of being condensed, the mountainous districts, 
especially those covered with forests, are sure to get some of it. Trees 
here are evergreens; they keep their branches and twigs clothed with 
leaves until death. Day after day, and month after month, the sur- 
rounding forest presents the same unchanged view in its deep green 
garment. Single leaves fall here and there one by one ; and new 
leaves appear as slowly and gradually as the old ones die away — un- 
noticed and unobserved. The pleasing and hope-inspiring spectacle 
of returning spring, in the sudden appearance of the new and tender 
foliage, as seen in the temperate regions, is here unknown. 



CoLONiA TovAK, January 8, 1857. 

Dear Sir : Under date of August 5 I sent you a letter and some 
registers of meteorological observations up to the 31st of July, which, 
I hope, you will have received long before this. 

Inclosed in a separate envelope I send you now four meteorological 
registers for the months of August, September, October and Novem- 
ber, I would have sent one for December also, but I have no more 
blanks. 

Besides these registers, I have inclosed diagrams* on four separate 
sheets, one table of half-hourly barometrical observations, and one 
about the course of the clouds. 

The barometrical observations in the registers have their full value 
only up to October 30, at 2 p. m ; for when I looked at the height 
of the mercury one hour afterwards I found it more than one inch 
below its usual level. This was so extraordinary that I expected 
something wrong with the instrument. As soon as I touched it the 
whole column of mercury sank rapidly down. In unscrewing the 
brass cup which contains the little leather bag I found the former 
half filled with mercury. On the surface of the bag, a little below 

* The diagrams and curves could not be given in this report. 



METEOROLOGY. 185 

where it is tied and where it was in contact with the surrounding 
brass tube, I found a spot of one-eighth of an inch diameter, as if cor- 
roded by some kind of acid In the centre of this spot was a hole one- 
sixteenth inch diameter. The corroded rim around the hole was very 
smooth and viscid, similar to partly dissolved india rubber. After 
sewing up the whole and giving it a coat of glue, to prevent the mer- 
cury from leaking out, 1 filled the glass tube again as cautiously as pos- 
sible, to prevent the formation of air bubbles. In this I succeeded pretty 
well, and, with the exception of one minute portion of air, which 
escaped into the vacuum, the latter seemed to be complete. The 
mercury then showed but a small difference (yo g ^^ yJo parts of an 
inch lower) compared with its former state. Hoping to succeed still 
better the second time, I tried my hand once more at it, but did not 
succeed so well this time, as some moisture had settled in the glass 
tube. The mercury is now at least one-tenth of an inch lower than it 
ought to be. 

The barometrical observations made with this instrument since the 
1st November, 1856, can, of course, not be considered as normal, and 
can be used only with a view to institute comparisons among them- 
selves. 

I feel this defect the more acutely as I hoped to measure a number 
of mountains and other localities, and to complete a twelve months' 
register, to find out the mean height of the barometrical column for 
the different months of the year. Up to the 1st November I found 
the mean height greatest in July. Hitherto I have measured only 
the pass over the mountains on the road from the colony to Victoria. 
On this spot the barometer was 23.334 at 7A. 30m. a. m., September 9, 
with the thermometer at 61°. 

In the diagrams on sheet No. 1,1 have laid down, in a graphical 
manner, the hourly and half-hourly rise and fall of the barometer from 
6 a. m. till 9 p. m. for 12 days. We can see here, at once, the greater 
amplitude of the daily periodical variations in October compared with 
that of June ; also that the hours of maximum of the different days 
in October are not far apart from each other and near to 10^ a. m., 
and the hours of minimum not far from 4 p. m.; while, on the con- 
trary, in June, the hours of maximum, as well as those of minimum, 
are much more scattered, and therefore not so regular. 

On sheet No. 2 are the half-hourly observations laid down for 24 
hours, from 4 a. m., October 7, till 4 a. m. next day. Here we 
observe that, in the morning, the maximum, as well as the minimum, 
is somewhat higlier than the maximum and the minimum in the 
evening. This seems to be a general rule with all the daily periodi- 
cal variations. 

On sheet No. 3 the daily mean barometer heights from June 10 to 
October 30 are put down and connected by straight lines to denote the 
course of the barometer from day to day throughout the several 
months. A kind of periodical rising and sinking is observable here, 
alternately taking place in periods of 4 or 5 days, at least for June, 
July, August and September. 

Oq sheet No. 4 is to be found a comparison of the mean monthly 
barometer heights of Colonia Tovar with those of St. Louis, Mo., 



186 METEOROLOGY. 

made by Dr. G. Englemann in 1851, which shows the remarkahly 
small monthly variation in the colony against the extreme range of 
atmospheric pressure at St. Louis. 

In all these illustrations the barometer height has not been reduced 
to the freezing jJoint for want of the necessary tables ; but, as the 
difference of temperature connected with these observations does not 
range much over 8 degrees F., the results may be considered not far 
from their true value. 

Table No. 5 shows that the most prevailing currents of air at an 
elevation of about 7,000 or 8,000 feet above the level of the sea, in the 
months of June, July, August, September and October, are here from 
E., E.SE., SE., S.SE.,and S., but especially from SE. 

Table No. 6 contains half-hourly barometrical observations for 17 
days, taken down at three different periods of the year. From this 
and* from sheet No 1 we see that the amplitude of the daily periodical 
variations is not a constant quantity in one and the same place, but 
changes with the different periods of the year ; as also does the hour of 
maximums and minimums. To find out, by continued observation, 
the mean amount of amplitude and the precise time of the maximums 
and minimums ibr each month of the year seemed to me desiderata of 
much interest to meteorology. 

With a view to investigate this matter I have made observations 
accordingly. The first set I made Irom 18th to 24th June; the 
second, from 1st to 7th October ; the third, from 10th to 12th Novem- 
ber, and the fourth, from 22d to 28th December. These observations 
give the mean amplitude for the latter part of June 058 ; for the 
first part of October, 0.079 ; for November, 0.060, and for the end of 
December, 0.043. 

By a peculiar view of the cause of periodical variations, and by the 
aid of an artificial globe, I had calculated as early as last September 
that the amplitude at Colonia Tovar ought to be greatest about the 
16th May and 26fch September, and least on the 21st January. The 
above-mentioned numbers of amplitude for October, November, and 
December coincide with my calculations so far, and it remains to be 
seen how they will do for the remaining portion of the year. 

With regard to temperature I will only say that the mean of the 
three months of June, July, and August, (that is, of the meteorological 
summer,) is 58 9 ; the mean of September, October, and November 
(the meteorological autumn) is 58.9, or exactly the same. The mean 
temperature of December is 56.6. During 204 days (from June 10 
to December 31) the sky was only once free of clouds at 2 p m., 18 
times free at 7 a. m., and 41 times at 9 p. m. Of these 204 days 143 
were rainy days. 

On the 5th of January I made a botanical excursion to one of the 
highest mountains of this region, about twelve miles to the east of 
the colony. The mountain, according to my estimation, may be about 
7j800 feet above the level of the sea, and is a kind of central point or 
knot, from which several rivers, flowing in different directions, take 
their origin. This mountain is covered by a dense forest, with the 
exception of a level spot of about half a mile in length and a quarter 



METEOROLOGY. 187 

of a mile in width, -which forms a Idncl of shallow hasin, only spar- 
ingly covered by a thin coat of short grass and oUier small plants. 
These ])lants I found the next morning at six o'clock white and 
stiffened with heavy hoar frost, which augmented and lasted till the 
rays of the sun fell upon it. The stiffened leaves of the herbs broke 
under the least pressure, like thin layers of ice. The thermometer 
was 37° at 67i. 30m. From all the information I could gather, hoar 
frost seems to be common in this spot throughout the months of Janu- 
ary and February. The wind blew during the night from northeast, 
and was very })iercing. 

Notwithstanding this low temperature, the forests of the neighbor- 
ing heights surrounding this basin are clothed in perpetual green, 
and the stately wax palm, with its straight and polished trunk of 
70 or 80 leet, (by actual measurement,) rears, uninjured, its slender 
form and its leaf adorned head high above all other trees. 

In this excursion I had also an opportunity to form some idea of the 
vast extent of destruction which was carried into the mountain forest 
last February by a lucifer match and a thoughtless boy. Over whole 
tracts of this primeval forest the trees lie dead one over the other, as 
if uprooted by a whirlwind, scarcely showing any marks of fire on 
their trunks. I was struck more than ever with the easy manner in 
which fire can destroy these dense and humid forests, which, by cheir 
shade, preserve a cool and moist atmosphere, and thereby cause the 
vapors ox the adjacent strata of air to condense into clouds, that rest 
upon them, with little intermission, during nine months in the year. 
In these high regions the temperature is so low and equable that the 
vegetable matter which is gathered on the ground between the trees 
is decomposed very incom])letely and very slowly. It forms a stratum 
of loose half-decomposed matter, in some places two to three feet thick, 
which, in the rainy season, like an immense layer of sponge filled, 
with water, feeds and supplies the rivulets and rivers gradually. In 
the midst of the dry season this layer becomes sometimes dry enough 
to burn, when kindled, with but little flame, and more like tinder, 
spreading in all directions. 

In this way the fire extends until met by a river or a road, or some 
other obstacle. The sub-soil which underlies the spongy stratum on 
these mountains is also very shallow and resting on hard rocks. The 
roots of the trees therefore, do not go down very deep, but extend 
more in a horizontal direction. When the spongy layer, with the 
smaller roots, are burnt, the trees lose their hold entirely and I'all, one 
over the other, in all directions. They die less from being burnt than 
from being uprooted. Many different kinds of tall reeds soon take 
the place of the trees. In a few years these reeds exclude everything 
else. The fertile mould that may perhaps have escaped destruction 
by fire is by and by carried down the declivities by the frequent rains. 
The region, no longer sh-^ded by high trees, becomes diy. Subse- 
quent conflagrations of adjacent savannahs, which are intentionally 
set on fire to procure a new growth of young grass, take hold of the 
reeds of the ruined forest, until, by the repeated attacks of these fires, 
the roots of the reeds can stand it no longer, and the smaller grasses, 
interspersed with a lew other plants, take their places. 



188 



METEOEOLOGY. 



On the road from tlie colony to Caracas we pass through a region 
in which this procestj is going on ; the reeds giving gradually way to 
the smaller grasses. Here the great number of half burnt yet stand- 
ing trunks of the wax palm tell plainl}'^ enough that there existed not 
long ago a dense and humid forest, in which they luxuriated in all 
their beauty, for these palms are never found, in their natural state, 
growing in any other but humid forests. Here they stand isolated 
in the midst of reeds. Most of them have died already, but many 
linger yet in a dying condition, until their last green leaf has turned 
brown, and then they stand like tall and slender pillars, the mournful 
remnants of a once stately forest. 

This is the same extensive region of which I spoke in my first letter, 
where a strong southern breeze-, sometimes amounting to a gale, 
sweeps constantly over the mountain ridge towards the sea. I have 
traversed this region since at four different times, in the months of 
August and September, and found every tiaie the same southern wind 
blowing there, only somewhat more violent. 

Before closing this letter I wish to add to the statement made in 
my first letter* about the gale of December 24, 1853, that my inform- 
ant here, in saying that the gale was felt at Laguayra^ forgot to men- 
tion that it was felt only in the unprecedented agitation of the ocean, 
but not in the atmosphere. This agitation of the sea is observed every 
time a violent gale from the north has been blowing in the higher 
latitudes, not the least breeze from the north being felt at the same 
time at Laguayra, although it is an open roadstead, not in the least 
sheltered against the north winds. This agitation of the sea, when 
the air was perfectly calm, I have seen myself several times at La- 
guayra; but at the time above mentioned the sea was so unusually 
high that long, enormous, foam-crested waves rolled up to the very 
parapet of the custom-house, a phenomenon scarcely ever seen before. 

During my stay in Victoria, a town twenty miles south of the 
colony, situate in a valley about 1,700 feet above the level of the sea, 
I made the following observations as to the temperature of that place: 



December ....•• 


21 


22 


23 


24 


25 


26 


27 


28 


29 








701 
86 

74 


69 
86 
72 


69 
75 

72i 


69 

75 
72 


68 

81i 

71' 


63 
83 
72 


68 

84 
72 


69 

84 
74 


66 




84 


9 p. m... ...... .......... 









The dry season has already set in, and my time is so much taken up 
by botanical labors, on which my sustenance depends, that I am un- 
able to give at present a more full and extended account of the climate 
and other atmospherical phenomena of this region. 



See page 183. 



METEOROLOGY. 



189 



! ^ 












•JITI U9do Ur J913lU0UJ.I3m SU aCDBS 91IX 



e -^ -^c !■- CO 06 -^ u- ao o CO X r-' x\£ co -r »o >-'*' -^ >ri t- oo' •^' t" cc r-^ r-' l-' 00' "H 00 



a lt; o o u^ ut; c; uo tr; CO ^ 



••"iOiCOiCiOUrf'*~iO>L'iiOiCiC'C*^iCU^tCiCtO 









Soo<o:c^ox-ec^ovo^c&cc^cococotocootocc:ococccoo^co 



:o ^& 












'i^DCOrOI-*'— ''^'•^«5OiX)0000(N'^'^r^C*0-^'^lO00CDr0SVWX'Q0CO^'^m 



b;OC0'X)OO'^-?'OQ0X'X)O00ecC«OO^O0JOC>Of?>O«3t0C^'*»O CD i- 

^c::jic: — (Ti — 00 — xcr-i^ocn — — c:QOooo5oaico»r;o — ot^oo — CT I— en 
.x/i--ooaOGOOoX'OOOor--(^r^cor^aGX)c^i''t^i^ajr-(^t^ooaor^f^t^ooa) r- 1 j- 



:"?'C^C0O'^OQ0i0t0OC0(M'^O0)'^e0r~-<r>CDC>G0'^OOG^CI'«:J'Q0fCC0 to -?* 



;-*OO3'^0»OV^0»«0CD00C«"^OC(?«C«C»'<roC<»00C«00 00Tj'(W-r00 



■— cicoTrocot^30o>Or-i'??oo'^0(Dt^oooio-^CJCO^otor^coo50— ' 



H S 



190 



METEOROLOGY, 



•n 

C 


en 


•80JOJ 










; • • 1 'iMdoT 


01 e» ■ ". 






: 




•UtaajiQ 










: : : : ':^^^ 


^^ : : 








•aojojl 




















•UjOajiQ 




















< 


•aojOiJ 








• ••* • I '. '. I '. '. 




: :- I 






U.ODJId 








: :^ 






: :^ : 






3 
5 


=5 






















^"(30|3A 


'• '• |(MC?(T1 1 J(N ioT 






'• 1 'J" ; ; .' ; 






•tt : : 


3 
O 

o 


: 1 jHasj : :&. 


•ti 






: :2: : : : : 






B: : : 
z : : 


•)U(Uiy 


oo oin inooo(Not~inooc»3cioo o m o o o o o o (jj _ ^ f» 


CO 
TT — ' 

I- (71 




•a ' 

M : : :::::: 








i ::::":: 










:<£ao|aA 


CO (M . tM • CM CJ CO Cl £71 CO d Ql OJ 


(N ; (71 (71 or(7l (71 CO CO 5? (71 


CO CO CO oT 


-I" 
(71 




3 
C 
O 


: : •:::::«.•.• 

•la ! • r •K h'^h ■ 


HK 




E.NE... 

E 

N&E.SE 

SE 

E.SE.... 

SW 

SE 

SR 


» 

2 


• •' -w 

H2H«£ 


H : 

H : : 


•jU(i«v 


22 °°'"2^'^°°^'"22''22222 'nf^°"=>o5<»'oo oi-oo 


to 


(71 

to 

(71 


S 


< 


'C 










. '. '. '.S '. '■ 












X(3o[aA 


£j (N : '^ --1 • • (N d : oi aia^ 


(71 - 


■71 rrn -o) I '. 


(7' coTr Tco 








3 
O 

O 


; . • W 


JKKl 


H : 




H ^2 rg : : 


W :. • • i 

H 2ii :2 . 








•ju,uiv 


r^in -Hr-oooorHt~ooa500cooioci ciooooooo oicNrnoo ' 


(N 


2 


TT 


c 

'is 


O M 


S S S : g S E : S S S : ^ : E S S 

O.C.P. :-o-c. -ddo. -^ -dddc 
". ". "^i : "^ —. ". ; '- =~' '-' • • • S CO S c 

CJ CJ -^ 1 "T to (71 1 (N to' (m' j S2 1 to tT t' CO 


2. 15 p. m.. 
6.40 p. m. . 

5.50 p. m. . 

5 p. Ill 

3 p. m 


s i id; ;e 

«"H--i-J?E 

"O rt .'0 . .r- 

^ _ ^~: ■ • • c 

(33 ^ (C ?3 • ^ — t; 






C.5 

a, c 


si iisSE ii^S^E igg ig : : ig :^^ j 

fa E =2>?^ i s "io «tS = «■ «■ E 'i • £ = i ; ^i : 

g^„--'"'^*'""-S- = co.ioo.= P ;o-.rto: 

". c- =■ : _: c)' c-i :'=^=^,7^"_; :T-. =^^^d.-n ---co . 

oiM'.r . — ,-,_-, .rt^_(x,rt .(x;oi--,_,:,uo ;io |— ci ^ 


8.30 a.m.. 
10.30 a. m. 

2 p m 

1.30 p. m.. 

io a. m!!!! 
2.10 p.m.. 






c 


? 


■"* ^ 


= — (7 


.-o ■a' 


lO toi^ 


(» cno— '(Tico-^tr; 

--1 r-iin01(W(N(NlM 


S 


r^ (Xi o3 o 

(7) (71(7ira 


SO 




1 





METEOROLOGY. 



191 



2 

s 

£ 
S 

3 




jS •' '■'' ° 

«DiS ^"=' 

HI S3 
t.;2 . (.•°i,„-?_=> 

O " ° c 1-- 1 ^ =? 
II to 5 U-. -r u, to 

B?n «"== "a 
Si = ft ". ~. " "". 5 

to ~. to to' to to to' -. 

< " < 5 < < < 










2 

B 
C 

m 

ft, 


.a 


en 




■5 


JotNOOOtCMr^ CO'^OOaOOSOT^tor^CSiOtDCDOOtOl^mMr-L'^eoQOr^ M 

Etotctototoooio io>oo>o>ou^iouTin«^irjS:>nioBlr:oinir:"Oi8ioK IS 

Oi 


o> 




i 






•jiB uado u; jajaiuouuaiij su aiuns aijx 












'S 

c 

e. 

c 

B 
>.. 

g 

o 
S 


a t-.' r- 00 00 -j; r: r-' ui c^" in' ^c ■^^ ^'-vrrn^-^-^-^ ~ ui u~ tri ri ci rS n -r tt ,n 


to 


to 




■o — 
^ o 


■1 


^■«»'u'^Tj<h»a3Coco— « 00-^oci— 'C»(?Joociro-^t^os»no(Mxotcr^»oo 
^totototototototo io«r;»totO!Otoiotoxnoinotoeotoirain<0"Otf;SS 


n t^ 

^ § 


■i 


a5 


to 


« 
S 
o 

n 
ca 


2 
a 

c 

c 


^Oitor^r^OiO'^tn inioto-^i^r^'rinr^rO'^M'V'^coffifM^OJtoc'ic^^o^ 










2«~5INlf5:^ — 0)0 3>00O«O — — '(?)<MOO3J050» = O00t0>n(Mr~05O 

-totototocoototo ir5iototototDtctotototo.i". if;tOtOtOO»r;iOi-'^»CiOtO 










. lO ic o If; iT^ T in o vr: ir; in »o o ^ u"^ ^-^ o V u-^ uT c; o lO lO ic .o o o ic lO ir; 1 




i 




£ 


.824 
8(iO 
804 
805 
796 
808 
830 
836 

838 
808 
828 
8J3 
820 
830 
852 
844 
820 
832 
8.30 
842 
842 
818 
820 
844 
8:-2 
820 
H04 
800 
804 
836 
838 




i 


1 


o> c< 


J^O-f-fftOtT^OlOO 00— '0:OVOGOtDtO'X>ClQOOOOCOtOOXf.^iT10IfflO-f X> 00 
.OCCOt^QOl^f^OOOO QOXJOOOOOOCOXIJUOOXJOOOOajQOOOQOajoOOOt^XOOOO C^ 00 

o,i ^ S 


I. M. 

814 
808 
795 
800 
804 
776 
812 
804 

808 
808 
802 
8-26 
830 
814 
828 
842 
826 
808 
820 
828 
826 
822 
820 
818 
828 
824 
846 
788 
796 
806 
832 


05 
CI 


00 

CO 
CM 


.:8 


a 


^an-frstst^X) 0) = — (N^j-rv-otot^ooojo— .oirj^iotot^ggo^ 


: : 


3 

-» 


1 i 

r- 5- 



192 



METEOEOLOGY. 



c 

t 

c 




•80JOJ 




C^ <N(NG^C^£? 




m 




_CJ(N CO 




_(Ne«0)!?l C»«S«0«(N(N« 


•U011D8.U(I 




^ 


^■^ 


^'^ 


> 




i 




^ 


§ 


^" 




> 


^ 


g 


^ 


mi> 


si^ 




•80JOJ 






















































•uoijoaJTd 


























































•30J0J 


!M 














- 


(N 0» (N 5l OJ 
























•uoijoajia 


& 
















> 




^^'5 


^ 


^ 
m 






2 




i>. 


^ 






13 
3 

5 




■3 
































i 






















•XiioopA 
















srs" CO 
































o 

3 

o 
















7 


2 


2 












si 

2 






















•junouiv 


oo CO — 1 o o = oi (?J lO ooo rf= inoooo ooooooo 


7} 


















i 


i 


5^ «> 

CO 
!3J 










i 
























•XliooiajV 




-Id -|w 
CO C^ C*^ ^J 


—1 ' Ol (N inn !M (N -H (Tl "M Ol • 








C! OJ CO Cl O CO OJ 


3 
C 
O 


t 


& 


1 


2 


y 




N.NVV.. 

S 

N.NVV. & 

S 

E.NE.... 

N 

w 


, 


m 


2 


a :' 
v, 2 2 


«; 


2 


P£ 


2 


2 


2 


a 


2 


2 


2 


•junoiuv 


e~o> cDooo) 


IrtOJO 0> e»0505 C>3<3> 05 35 30 OO f- 00 O Ol C 


o 




•a 
c 

2 




"in 

is*" 














































s : 


•XipoiSA 














Cl 


'J- 


































3 

o 
o 
















2 




;z 












22 






a 
2 










H 


2 


Z 


•junoutv 


-Hin oocio-Hoo 00 o — o oo (Nttooc (Mo-^— it^oio 




•a 


p. 
o 












a" 

a. 

lO 


H 

D. 
O 
CO 

in 




£ S 

O lO 






n. 
o 

eo' 




c. . T 

^. a. o. 
^ c: o 








dc. 


.§•5. 


c 














Q. 
1.-5 






2^- 






c 
d 

o 




— C) * 
1— — ' -^ - 








E : 








r 


(?! 


cz 


T 


vr 


cc 


r- 


00 


3! 


O 




c 


t^ 


TT 




to 


— 


00 


en 


Q' 


<N 


6 




SI 


(N 


f. 


OJ 



METEOROLOGY. 



193 



• » « 






jSJ ':i 




















^ '. ' '• 
s : : : 












c: O t~o 




■<r 


S 1 • j 




(M(M 1 J 




ga ;ca : 

2JQQXaQ ■ 




o = o>o 


•■e " 


Mist... 








fe'Sw : : 






; ; : S ; 

; ; ; c ; 

'• • '.to t 

• ; lei '• 




• • • c. 

: : :§ : 

• ■ Jo* 1 




(T Ol O — 




c 1 
S ! 



13 



194 



METEOROLOGY. 



s « s 

o . 

cs Ola 

to CD '^ 



13 c cti 2 rt 
c 3 r 5 »- 

5 o -5 "I _! 



' — oc70»oO'#r^^^asCM 



^•^COO^lOtOt^'JlOCOTC*:' — i0 31 



^lOto^'^io^oioioiOiO'^o mioiom^*oio^»c»o»o»-'^ioiO'!rT 



;>-*r-i£jG^xior^i^»ooocor^ 



oir-i^-OiaoaiOi— ^CTO(?»--oo>cDt-- 



f^OOO^OCO^OtOtOOi^tO tOOOOO^OCOCOUU3COCC:b 









•jiQ uado ui jaiotuouiJ9i|i se giuea yiix 






ococooooooot^i^ooGor^o 



OiOO^OuoOif^iCiOOiOiO irD»OOiOO*0»OtOiO»OiO«OiOiO»0»0 



. :o fTJ a; '^ cj fM r* >o »rt — t 



CO u- lO lO CM (■- r^ 00 r^ tc CO • 



. ^ro w ^ 



tOOTViOiCOOOOOO I00if5mtf3t0i0»0*0i0*000i00i0 



.rooiotNO-^oojh-r^QO— . 



C)01Q0O?00)«'<S'Cfl^'^<-'?0l^0ia0 



% o o ;o CO CO CO CO CO o CO u^ o ce lo ir? co co ^ co co co co co co co co o u? 



c^ 



: c© CO ■<i' ■^ ifi lo G^ CO CO m r^ CO CO m CO CO OS lO oi GO 30 r^ t* 00 1-- CO "^ CO 

* «i U3 lO lo tra »c iO lO tfi ic to o lo o o»oo to 0*0 lOO lO o*o oouo 



lOOtOiOiOiOCCCOiOiOC 



i^; 



.COCDCOCOOCOCOCOiOCOOtO 



i^ocjrocJCi-^w^cMCococoooo 
scocococococococococococococoto 



, (O »0 lO »0 lO » 



lOuor^uoccioxioxnoof-oscoiOTr— ' 

iOiOtOiOtOOiOtOiOtOtOtOOtOtOiO 



.xxooooc'i^t-^ooot^oo: 



'^QOOOCOC^O'^OOCOCJXlO-^fNaD 

cKQOooaoxi^aooox'c^t^xiooGOooi^ 



rfOlGOQOO^OCflfNQpOO OC?OQOCOOOi-*C*COTt'00-«J-»OOOCD 



g^^CDC3023COO 

. 00 S CO X 00 1-- r- 



. I> f - l> o 



f^>oO'X>aooo'^'co^c«(^)Of^(ooco 

00 r^ 00 00 00 to ao c» 00 t-- 1 - GO 00 GO 00 1-* 



'-H(MCO'<3'iOCCr-GOOiO— 'Ol 



•iccor^QOOJO^tMco-riocor 



,— ^^ ^rt^-i-H^-- (TJCNC^CitNT^C^CJCi 



METEOROLOGY. 



195 



■3 
0) 

c 
<s 

V 

•a 

•o 
c 


0« 


•80J0J 




srs. 


'H(M 


^ 










: - 


5o 






(Nf 








Jq) 


- 


•U0I133JIQ 


^^^ti ^ 


i^ 


w .... 

w .... 
w .... 

Calm.. 
Calm . . 
W .... 
SW.... 






: :^ : 


•aoioj 








































•uo!iJ.>J!(j 








































■i 


•aojoj 






CO j 
































•uorioaJia 




































■a 

3 
O 

5 




■S 

s 
5 





































i 

f^ 


-.(jpoiaA 












CO 
























• i 


9P 

i 

o 
O 












fK 


























; 


•junouiy 


i^o = o-H ot io--(N ooj c^=:oct«300 ajc-5 r- 


2 


c 
•.(jtooiaA 






























6 

o 


D • Bl 
■ 




bO 






<D 5) .(HOI 


(71 






1 OJ-H 




(N->5<ro!N (N-i 5i 


o 


u: 


&: 


2 


63 


«2 


CC 


a 


Z 


X 


ta a. 








02W 


m 




.a. 




•junouiy 


oocnaios asosoioaio oj oo oooosooa oo o 




•c 
5 



























S : : 








bio 






•XjiooiaA. 




- 


:- 












(M -i(N J-i j 


(M 5'" f j 


- 


3 
O 


S 


2 




1^' , 

KM 








z 


2 


2 : 


50 


z 


m 


z 




a 


m 




a 


•junoiuv 


^ Ci O ^ <-H O O -H i-l 3i O t^ OS 1^0 1^-^00:0 35 :o o o 


1 


•d 
c 

<u •" 

s 


S 5 

tio. 

O lO 
CO -"T 

ojco 








2.30 p. m.. 
10.45 a. III. 

I p. m 

5.45 p. m. . 


12.45 p. in. 
4.30 p m.. 
5.45 p. in.. 
3. 30 p III . . 
6 p. in. ... 

3 p. in 

6. 15 p. ni 
1 . 45 p. in . . 
1.15 p. in.. 
5.30 a. in.. 
11 a. ni... 
9.30 p, in.. 
4.10 |). in.. 
1 .30 p. 111.. 
4.55 p. 111.. 
10.10 a. in. 
12.30 a. m. 
5 p. m 


= s 




1.B 


• • 










.-oirjo-r caoocoin 
• — :o • CO CO • ci 


15 a. in. . 
15 p. 111.. 
15 p. III.. 
5 a. in. . . 
30 p. ni. . 
45 a. ni. . 
. 15 a. m . 
5 p. Ill . . . 


'-' — 


£i35-CO 


— icoiOi—-.— cin — Ai^ 


ooco — cnoiro — — 1 






Q 


— x 
If 




c 


-T ir 


tc 


r^ 


X 






-1 en 


CO 


■^ 


■0 


CO f- 


O) 


35 


iji 


— c 


i) 



196 



METEOROLOGY. 



o 



s 











^ 


■5" 


CMO! • 








•3DJ0J 










S 












b 


1 : 


: : : : : 




•a 


en 


• tlOllDSJlQ 




^ ^ ^^ : 




a 










CO , ', I 




«: 




•ooaoj[ 










— 


S . 




















■3 














^ 


b 














(N 


• uoijDaiiQ ; 






I r ! 




-s 




• 




2: : : : 








1 . 




















1 




•a 0.10 j 


1 






































t^ 


•uoijoaJiQ 
















■0 
















































« 












•XjiDoiaA 














B 
















iC 
















a> 


3 
c 













•junotuv 


^ i-H a> 
00 


CO 






•a 






: S-S : ': '■ 








c 






• |:§s -M ■ 








t4 






D.2 • ■ 














: J3SJ :&< : 








• «|aiH«i • 




m 




•XjiooiaA 




f-' 0» W ©KDOl ; 




•3 


IS 










3 















b 








. 1 . : : ; 







(M 


3 










: . : Ih 













: H ZmHg;r/j : 




•junotuv 


X) Oi 01 01 


oi 






4 
















c 
































S 




















: -to : : 








•Xi!00[3A 








: "^ : : 




































0^ 














t~ 


2 

3 










: '^ \ : 


00 

•^ 


■junoiuv 


-^ C^ 0>r-l 10 






■a 

e 


E S S S i 


S ;. 








V. SB 

= 


a a.Q.CL I 


D. ; 
'• 










10 10 ' 


CO - 
























oi j 




■5 




H 


oocc r? m ; 














(£< 




.Q si 


sSssi 


S : 








t- c 


• rt • - • 


Q. • 








■:2 


«oO-°- : 


.in '• 








2 5 


>0 --I ul lO . 










Cm 


10 . ul p-< . 


|oj i 








s 


r-' ^ c) in J 












Tf CD r^ X) 








s 








OS 

Q 


00 . j: 

'"'■2 H f^ 










^ 








1 



METEOROLOGY. 



197 



a 
c 

K 




o 

u, 

0) 

"O 

e 

3 

il 

P 








S 
£ 

>> 


a 




to 








« 


lO 


■< 






s 
a 






1 


■jie uado ui jajamoujisqi se auiTis aqx 






^ 


'a 

e 

c 
o 

c 

0) 

E 
o 
s 


40sot^e^oo«TOxr~or-««>f3o:>5i^>oo(Nxa)ooo«oi>c^o 


t^ 


O 






g 


§ 




35 


C! 








s 


to 




CI 


in 

•n 


5 

a 

n 


•a 
1 

1 
o 
S 


05 




I: 
li 




a. 


















^siiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiisiisgmiilii 


i 


o 






S 


s 


^ssi^gsi^iiiii^s^eissiissim^ig 


in 

35 


00 


«s 


s 


<N 

TO 

00 


s 


^.ii?e?=igsii5iiiii^iiilisggii!iii^ 


to 
o 


■*« 


in 
at 


s 




-o)n-5-«<£.t-ao35o-22S2SJ::22§?;5SS3SSSSS§)Sn 






— c 

1 s 



198 



METEOROLOGY. 



13 
-3 

1 


CO 


•9310^ 
























>> 














CO CO 


a a^n '• 


: :« ! 


•uoiiDaJid 






^^>'^^^>"^ 


c 

'.2 . • I ; ; 


• CQ ^ ^ p 02 • 


■ :^ ! 




•aojoj 


















































•uoijoajid 


















































s 
■< 
t^ 


•SDJOJ 


















































•uoiioajiQ 


















































3 
O 

O 




•a 
a 


















































•XjiooiaA 


CI w 






























- 








• sA 




o 

5 
o 

o 


en 


















& 














!§ 










cj 

S 

..2 

• 2 
.m 




•junomv 


t~i~OJrHooo(N-.iinoa>ij)o oomo n — ■ oo'^rt^om'j'ai 




■a 

c 


























b 
c 
[i. 


1 


a <u 




Higher .. 
Lower . . 
Higher .. 
Lower . . 
Fncr 


1 








•jfipoiaA 


ctnoioi Ota c?oj 








: : 




e» CO CO CO 


O) IN iM (M (M OJ OI 


3 
o 
O 


1 


05 


K 


GB 


r. 


!K 


e: 


Ixl 




U 


e 




Zo-jS 


W.2 
oooQcr 


^ : 


Stationar 

SE 

E.SE.... 
SR 


; :^ 

50 ads 


•junouiy 


i^ CO o »o lO tX5 -^ o o oi o o o vn o oo x r^ 


t~ O OCftOOOOOTO 


■< 


-a 

c 

5 




. 






























Upper.. 
Lower. 
High . . 

High.. 
Lower. 


:■§.: • 
:a : 


to bo . 

o o ; 


•XjiDoisA 


01 <M 


























(TJ 




^(JJ 1 


j(r5 • 1 




o 
O 


El 


H 
CO 

SOK 


z 






k: 


S 


=3 




H 


C£ 




H 




^ 








& 


sf 


P£ 


\ 


:z 




: :*" 


•junouiv 


o o r3 c<5o o r^O)co-H mod o eot~<oio >-< ■* ^'^"^^"''S^S 


PS 


"o ti- 
ll .5 


s 

o 
















a 




E 

c 














! S : : 

S ill 




; Q. ; 


O.S 

1.1 


s 

o 
oi 


E 

CO 


















s 

p. 
>2 












CO >n . . 




is : 

• d. • 

:^ : 










OI 


cr 


T 


u- 


<c 


r- 


00 


O) 


o 




e 


CO 


■* 


in 


CO 


t^ 


I 




o» 


o 




53 


rs CO 


s;s 


CO f- 00 



METEOEOLOGY. 



199 























K 


> c 








































































a 










m 








c 


o go 


•* 


o 


b. 


a 








Cp-< 0» «CQ 






OS 


i. 


2 


in 






o r- OS • 


1^ "^ 




Higher. 

Higher. 
Middle. 
Lower. 






(M c« CI (r> n m 








X 


— 








O 00 Oi • 


3» 

to 


in 
in 


E 

s 

to 


£ S 
c. c. 
tr. o 






C 




ss" 

O lO 

oi in 






c 

IT 


F 












E^ 





200 



METEOROLOGY. 























"C • *- 














eg «1 




























5=^ s ^ 














»j lO . .3 










o5 




30 <B J3 










^ 




= C>! to S 










rt 




~ tS s" 










S 




'Mi s 










(^ 




.1- - i. i 


























MS.' ;e 2 0. ^ 














■" H H H 


























S 


^i-— .■vwinMinascooo^st^iniotoi^ooco — 5-to»r^'0(n"r^^o 




tr 








« in-ro'OininininifsOL'-, inininio.oiniOL-iininiftO'nioihico'no 
















^ 


T 












C" 


tr 






J 


02 




tc 




- 


. 


. 5:oocnO! = ajoi — =>a5oc->p)oor^o c?i^ S"oj i's 01 sj r~ si K to o> 


ir 




c 


ja 


E 


«ra CD to if5 to ifs >o CO CO 10 m u3 ix) -o >o to «5 » m m :c >n oio 10 5; 55 




Cr 


rto 






h 




f^ 


»r 




OJ 










lO 


S 


^ 


« 




— 






£ 
















^ 






-fa~lo» Ha -*! -*te 














„ ccin(M---«'t~coincDtD>nt~ior>'in3Jioirauiin?5cstoioi^a5iot^ic,o 


IT 








E 


" inoiO'OinoioiOiooiniO'noioihinoirjioiniSSioInifii/jiraicS 


















IT 




ii^ 








tc 




J 


. 


£ 
















3 














>% 


•JIB uado ui jajouioiuaanj se duics ai(x 










C 


2 
















C3 


TOOot~ocot~Mc^Of~c^ncooo^'»^r:mr~oc^c>5ooc^TOl^?Of^ 


t 


cr 




00 =i 30 ci -<' 00 — (?) — 00 t-' 32 — 0; » x X oj =' a> 0; — — ' oi — •' oi 


cc 


3- 






0) 


oifitomujcoiototDtoiooiOtDioiocDimnotocDcoointococDcoo 


?" 


»r 




'a 




s 
















1 












~n 1 




c 




a 


- SSSSSSSSSSSSSBSKSSlSSSSSSgSSgSSEi 




oc 




o 







1 






b 






S 
1 




en 










a 


gg£SS£SSgB§KS?JS§l§i'SSES2ig3S£S§S 


u- 


s< 




u- 




a> 


o 








2 




g 


S 




^ 






to 






CJ 










P 












- 




. S^D^;85S8S§SSi3S^S?^!oi^!sl'8g|°K:g5S|S?SS3? 










s 




t-" 






















c^ 


r^ 








■i 






ir 








t~- 








J 




■3 


S 


„ oou3tDcn3iOOJO(M<T»— ■t~oo>o>o = 050>oooi-^— •osoiosasxeaoi 
" 10 to »n lO CO ifl to to CO CO »o CO »o ir: CO to »^ »o *^ »o CD to »o in 10 »o lO 










OJ 












f 


a. 












rt 


OJ 












a 














&^ 


S 


„ MrftOTfminrjini'^ooioo— •■<rcoc)-ro)ir3?o-5"«M?;c»5ininiratcri 












0^ 


° tototocDtotoastocotocoiotDcocotbcocbtototococococotototocoto 










1 

o 


(j» 






















^ 


a 


ot^tDictD:jooico330»a)i^t^t^t^05t'*>cDcoaiGOt^x>cir^ajooas 










H 


•< 


!ooo'nioiominu5tDio>oiomiomiominino'OiO'f5iomioioino 








^. 


?: 










I' 






oocn-TOtooooTOTfo-fl-foo— .(M-^o-roOTPtoooOfN-rTfcgo 




ir 


1 








oi-ci — 3>oa:cn35 Trirrco— ■ — — i = 035CTintou7(= — -.-o— oio) 


ti 






rt 




p: 


t~ Q0_ 00 00 i- 00 i- t-- 1- 00 00 03 Qo 00 00 00 00 00 00 1^ t~ CO 00 00 00 ao X 00 00 00 


^ 


oc 




n 


^ 


c- 


cq 




Oi 


ot 


01 


(71 






^ 




s§??2;gss;sss8g^i?S2§i§ssggft'5?2§??ss?. 


^ 


X 


^ 
















be 


s^ 


t=i do x_ OD ?-_ f- e- i- i^ i> CO X X X X OD 00 X X i> ri oj X 00 00 X X X 00 00 


CM 


X 


j.^! 


n 


Tf 


c- 


•^rs 




E 


OJ 


IN 


at 


O) 


(M 






a 


gS§?§855SSg5S§2?iS!?.§§§SgS;§S§S§SSSS 


^^ 


r^ 


















•4 


t- r- X X r- ?: t- t-- ^- 1-- X X x 00 x x x x c-- 1- r-_ x x r- x x x X oo 00 


c 


X 








n 


^ 










r~ 


at 


(T 












-HtNc^.^iotot^xaio — oiw-*iotot~xo)0-H(N«-<rotor~xdo 














rt -1 r-H i-i -H pH rt -H ^ rH OJ Oi 0) (N (N O) OJ U) CD S< C^ 














t- 










Q 




S2 
< 




^ 

s 





METEOROLOGY. 



201 



•6 
a 

•o 

m 
■e 
e 


OS 


•33JOJ 




'fO 




• cj o) n CI 






'* : 












« 




©» 


■U0I133iI(r 




too 




^ : 

. 013 • 




• oil aj 




orj 


0* 


■8DiOJ 
























■UOIlOSJia 
























■< 


•80JOJ 












r; 








•uoijDaJia 






'/J '. '. .' 

m '■'■'. 








12^ 








9 
O 

3 


o> 


s 


'^ 


^ 


i Mi 




'. '. 5P 










•jCjiDoiaA 


- 


pm |<n J 


o« J :" 




JOJOI • 


V 

3 
C 

O 




& 


JT! 1 


K 


: .m 






Joio! 


1 


•lunoiuv 


•^ -^ TO t~ino -^ CO ojoo o ra o r-tot~ co 


91 






ii 1 J i : i 


5| : : 

Sj : : 






£j : 


•XjiDopA 


n^oi ran 'nn 5? rtP:«Mco rn ^.-^ a\o> rs m n o» oj -. (j» 


O 


HZ 


fc 


a : : : ■ 
z^ : : . 


& 


1 


MX a: 


H Z=^ 






1^ 


xV 


z 


xza 


•junoaiy 


o » t~ QOt~t^ 00 m to^oa o os to r- o t~ o> 


•< 


•a 
5 




t i: . . St r tf 5 ic t . . to i-o ; 






2 & 

S-3 


•XjiooiaA 


^-H rt je^<^^^5nTO^^.-o^^(^^c^ — : n 5?5?(H • 


3 
O 

O 


a: 


03 


^ 




& 


X 


: :H 


: ^ 


OQ 

aQX 


tn 


aiai 


•junouiv 


C'* lo ooinco to o ooso o o o oxNcn os 


'3 


c tc 

11 
f, 3 












6 p.m.. 

"J. 30 a.m... 
niglit. 
9.6 a.m. 






<_ si 

c = 

11 














to 












X' — 

c 


(N 




CO 


•5" into r- 




00 




C50 — 


(M 


n 








into 


t~ 


CO 



202 



METEOROLOGY. 



■a 
iS 

•a 
c 


en 


•aojoj 


a 






C! 




CM 






(N 


o» 




(M 


<M 




(D 




51 
















■UOllODJIlJ 


m 




^ ^ 




^' £: 


^ ^ 


^ 


^ 












•80J0j[ 






























•UOIJOSJIQ 


































•3DJ0J 
































•UOT103JTQ 
































■a 

3 

o 
O 




2 
































•XltooiaA 


















(M 












3 

O 

O 


















CC 














•lunouiv 


o^-. oooooocoooo 




?i 




■a 
c 






High.... 
Middle 
Low .... 

Low . . 












§1 

33 J 






•XiiooiaA 


--■pjoxNOOJincico — CO — o)<jj <j) (m"— ■ cj (M 


ro 






6 

5 

o 


^ 


& 


^ 


^ 


XL 


Hor 


^ 


"x 


2 


CO 


Vj 


« 


fc. 

or 


« 


2 


a: 


ce 


c 


a; 








•junouiv 


t^ 00 1^ or- t^ oi ro CO o TOoo 




c. r- 


a 


1 
























£3 






•XipoiaA 




ojco a « (NdJ-- cj ciTtN n 






•< 


s 
o 


^ 


■^ 




: '' 


Xfl V 


J 


■■ ^ 


^I's 


: ^' 


7 


T 








•lunouiv 


t^ -^^ 0035 O CO to OJ CO CO 3J 


ro 


to' 




O bb 










'. °- 
• in 
« -^ 

jto" 












c 


^ 






(u'a 
S.S 










• c. 
•«o' 












is 

a. 




:~ 








O 

a) - 




c 
c 


10 


! 


§ 




\ 


S 


i e 




§ 


i S 


« 


2 


5 


§ 


s c 


1 




c 

t 




s: 



METEOROLOGY. 



203 



r5:Drot~^TrtcifM^oot-iO^-'30< 



jiCO ■0»rt*C'OOiC«OiC»0»^iOiOO'rtO 



7 »0 »-'2 lO »0 O irt O >0 O i-T i:^ 4.* O O O O O 






■ -^ lO -^ GS 1-0 1 



;CCCD^-G0tTia)r*e0tD«5OI^00{-r^G0«3r^U^a 



in(r:tou7u'^^ou^u^L'7icio^LO>o**»oootoo>otou^ooiootCio*o 



'JIB uodo ui jaiauiouiioqi SL» auitig 












S !■*• 



"fe 



0^ 






• o 33sa)3>xoooo>t^ocnoo>ri— '0'7>t-Clor-^- 






-oiC50J03iooooaoooa)xi3ixia>a;r*c; 



• 3>oi r^oor- 



jioootc ijQO»0*OiOOOOirt<0»*~iOOt0^i 



• GO '-- 30 O O C-j Ci 'O — 3 — . O Xi :^ 3 O X) — — <•- i^ i-- O 
'Qt Gi^Gi Qi a C* G* Oi Gl Qi Gi^Qi Oi Gi Gi <N 



ootO'nr-X)r*tcco3or^-X)r^-3^ooi^r-a?QOX)r>-'^cooo 



^oto^o-^rcoaj-oToo ■=cr;tctDXoooo)cco; 



• 00 00 J - 00 X) =2 30 X) 05 =; i-- 35 



I :n 30 00 x- cj t-- -^ ! 



• 'ricn3iC!:c3C30iOi;r)OaJOiCS3iai3i^ai^aiC>c?Jcr> 



^OJCO^iOCOt^XCno — ^ 






204 



METEOEOLOGY. 



uoiiasJiQ 



•Aj!oo[3A 



cj -1 m 



C<3 01 (N 



m ra tc 



VI m VI 



lOOOOC^OOOSlO rH 



itliooiaA 



& 5 









• - y 


o 


S" : 


■— fei 


b 


t. 



0»(N (MO«(N<N(M (MCO(M W (N <M (M CJ 



(K y '/J 
W 03 CO '/J OQ 'Ja W 02 02 CO'OTjWi^ 



•junotuy 



OS o o o o 



Oi o o o o 



ec i> M tc tfi 



bf) be bc 



•XjiooiaA 


(NO«tN (N 


!N -H -H 5^ (u a" 


O) 


OiQi a*n 


S?-.(NCO 










S2 


CO • 


















■o 


•a 


















o 


>oaT 


K 




t 


^ 

MW 






S 


CO 


: '>3 

aim 


tr 


fe 


»■ 


w 










•junouiy 


o = 




c 




t~ 


o 


u: 


c 


c 


o 


Oi 


c 




.- 


o 


c 




o 





E-3 



e :H££S 



eg 2.C3 cc c 

^ n.(N C^ — ■ ■* -"■ r-l « (JJ 

— > c^ irj XI CO t-^ CO 



lO O CO 

M (?) • 
• • o 

l-Ol -H 



° S c E E E 

es . = . . . 

CO >c o o o 
• ^ w^ (N CO tn 

-H (N i^ to OJ TT 



E E ESS 



C>J CO -^ ^ 



E ~ = s 

O O — O . lO 



QOOOiC «— t^cDOJ 



S ESESSEE 



(DfOCO SCO-3-CO n, 

r-a5iO'''!!Dco^05 



METEOROLOGY. 



205 



























c 










C) 


-^ 














OC 


















^ 




^ 


^ 
































































































































































1 


D 








6, 


D 
































CI 


































m 

QQ 


















OOt^ OOCDOO (OOi a 050-MO 


1 


























: 












n (N (Ncio)o>S« s« atoi ot — 


5? 5) I! 5J (M (N 








a 




■SI V 






H 
CO 


1 


1= 


a 




tr 








OiO 05X00 CSO O OOOOIDOO 


CD 


^3 
3J 


: 










1m 

: 5 




















Cin -- C?« <N 




1 SftN -^ (N 






m r. 


] V 






• ^ 


cr 


•» V 




5 

2 


: H 
'■ ma 


V 


Ei 


3 






O'Oa l/^OSCiO 050 OO OOCQttCIO 




CO 
00 


= ^3^0 

"Z- • o o» ""• 

C5 lO -^ — « -^ 


: S 

■ o 


8.20 a. m.. 
1.50 p. in.. 
3.25 p. in.. 
5.30 p. III., 

6. .35 p. m.. 
8.30 p. in.. 
9.30 p. in.. 
1.50 p. ni.. 
3 .35 p. in.. 

9 p. Ill 

6,20 a. in.. 
12.40 p. in. 
3.40 p. in.. 
H.IO p. 111.. 
8. .50 p in . 
10.5 p. III. . 


2.25 p. m.. 
3.45 p. Ill . 
4.10 p. m.. 
5.45 p. 111. . 






3.5 p. m.. . 
5.25 p. m.. 
9.45 a. m.. 
11.30 a. ni. 
1.20 p. in.. 


•o 

■ -T 


6.40 a. m.. 
1.25 p. in.. 
3.5 p. ni. . . 
4.40 p. in. . 

6.10 p. in.. 
7.45 p. ni.. 

9 p. Ill 

11.40 a. m. 
2 10 p. in... 
8.30 p. III. . 
5.30a. 111.. 
9.10 a. 111.. 
12. .55 p in. 
5.30 |). III.. 
2.30 p. in.. 
9.10 p. 111. 


I c 


O 3 O 

C) n -r 






r 


a 


D O 


- C 


=, 5 


\% 


< c 


\ 




^ 


c 


? g 


^ g 


5 c 


~j 


5 


! 


c- 


•^ 


1 


s 




^ 





206 



METEOROLOGY. 



< 




i 




O Ot O OC lO — ^ 

C - — =5 = O O 
005 O 32 O = = 

TT f^ -^ r^ Tf -^ -?" 
O) CN (N (?) CH O) C! 




■i. 








— '-0 !o CI c) 5; 2! 
c 31 S £ 3 5 3 

C! CJ f5 C^ C) C) Ul 


o 
o 




< 


.<i-co — cs35r-ao 






c: ■«• -.c Tf (?i 00 00 

C O: — o -- O = 
C Oi o = o = c 

C! c5 <n o; oi (N ci 


CO 

o 




< 


Jg-.O(NO>00t^00 

f^tots«5ir:>oiO'0 






l^ TT CO O 00 -^ CO 

cnrj — = — = = 
C3: Oi = c; = s_ = 

CO "^ Tf -^ •<?■ -^ 
d (M C< O) C) O) 


o 


< 


jeoo(NaiQOt~QO 




tC CJ OJ X 00 Ol CJ 

o en — 3-. — c o 
OJ en c en = c; o 

CO Tj' ?7 'T -r ^ 

CI CJ CM (N fM CJ 


§ 








IC X O -M -JO = 3 

OO CO — 3> — o o 

03 05 o en O i:- o 

c^ ' Tj- :o -^ rr ^ 
(?) <N (N CI (N (N 


<5 


< 

00 


rfia>35-'moot-r; 
f^ >f; >n CO «■: lO >n "O 




ro :o •r 00 QO CO CO 

00 00 O OO = O: 33 
cn 35 = C-. c; =i 3i 
c-i ■ -w ~ -3^ « 
<N C) (N O (M 


C33 

cn 
(?1 


< 

1- 


^3scn— 'Sioooor^ 




CM 00 CM Tf -JD O CJ 
GO (^ C7i aO w 32 33 

cr o: m 3; o 33 32 


33 
00 

33 

CO~ 


< 


-=io333 = ajM<30I- 

t^Oincctotrjtx^o 




= CO ro o ^cc 00 
00 £> -r> x^ o X CO 

33 31 33 33 => 03 33_ 

CO " ' * rr :>i 
at act 


33 


< 

to 


-ie3)3; ocnoooor^ 




00 •»■ Ci m CD CO o 
r^ CO CO r^ 33 r^ r^ 

03 33 33 33 33 C3 C3 


C3 
CO 




O — 1 (N CO -O- lO CD 




1 



o 

-»^ 
>- 

P5 

c=a 

CO 
cq 
O 

<J 
o 

H 

o 

fq 

>^ 

P5 
P 
o 
w 

1-3 
-Jj 
W 



s 

CM 


gcococococcrtco 


■■?• 

33 

CO 

IN 


00 T^ CO CO 00 CO o 
CO CO O 'O lO ^ ^ 
!33 C3 en 33 S3 33_ 33 

CO " '«' ' '»' 

(H 


Oh 


iaTt<0100-<33C» 

f^cococoascouoco 






O O -- O O CC' i^ 
■^ -^ CO CO CO -^ ^ 
03 33 31 33 33 33 03 

8 


co' 

Ci 


CO 


^rr r^ o o — ocj 

^<0 (£) CO o » *f^ (O 






■^ CD 00 'N 1/5 iC CO 

"^ -^ CD CO :o lO -^ 

03 73 33 ^ O) Q3 03 

s 


CO 




je?5coo = -<oco 
pj-xcococococcco 






CO 00 CO -T X CO 00 
ir3 -^ (^ CD CO iC uo 

33 3-. 33 33 33 33 33 

co' 






hscocooo— 'cnco 

f^COCOCOCOCOiOCO 




00 CO CO 00 (?) T CO 
\0 >f, (^ CO c^ CO CO 

03 03 33 33 31 33 33 

CO 
(H 


CO 

CO 

Ci 


CM 


jSC0S1 = O=33C0 

f^cDcococccoinco 




(7) = — ' C! O) 1~ O 

CO CO X ^- X r* (^ 

33 33 33 33 en 31 33 

s 


n 

i 


CM 


^r0(M=l = O33— 1 

f^cocococo^oco 




•^ X -V ^ O CO o 
l^ CO X 00 X X) » 
33 33 33 33 33 33 33 

CO 
Ci 


o 

X 

c:3 

CO 

a 


•CM 
(N 


^jcocicsooisso 
f^cotococDOmco 




irj X cj X <T o CO 

X r- 33 X 31 33 X 

31 33 33 33 3. 33 33 

s 


1 

c^ 






^:ocotoiO"^ioco 




O CI O C^ 'M X- O 

Oi CC' o ^ =^ 3; OS 

CS 0> O Oi O Ol 05 

ro ' TT c*^ -^ era 
03 CJ C^ 7i (N 


33 
CO 




^COCD^OOOiOtO 






O 00 rj" r^ a> O O; ( 

OOOOOi-^OCTS^ 

o :=r> o cr:' o o Ji 
TT C^* V « T T r? 

O C^ O* OJ G^ c* c* 


33 

33 




O — ' OJ CO -^ tD CO 
CO 







METEOROLOGY. 



207 



•a 

1" 
s 

a, 


■* -r ?t GO o ■* » 


1 


^sg2?gSgg 






Is 

35 


30 


[^sSggSSS : 


02 31 35 = 35 05 3> 


Il 


00 


-e — OOOC5XXI3 C 


c ao tXD -?l to (D T 


35 

S5 


S 
Sb 
? 








0> O! 35 5) 05 35 OJ 


35 




g5§Si3Sg 






C5 31 Ol 35 35 3J 31 
TO 


35 
CI 


pi 
to 


E^SS-oasoino 




(?) p = a5 ao _io Ti 
S 35 S S m § 35 

s 


o> 


ai 
to 


-ci — rMC5=.35aO=J 




^j rr ^^ O -^ — 00 

^ -T --c. o CO 'j: ^ 

Ol 31 31 35 35 35 31 
0» 


35 

i 




SS0)C131OO»=5 






05 31 35 Ol 35 3i 35 
«■■■*■■■■ 


(N 


oi 






Ol 35 31 31 31 31 31 

n ' ' *' *' 
a 


35 

n 

CM 


pi 


f^mtotococoioo ; 




35 35 31 31 31 35 35 


Ol 




o -^ OJ r^ -r LO tj3 

CS 


c 





208 



METEOEOLOaT. 



•apmiidiuy 



■ • .^ -^ ,_ ^ .« 1^ ^, -^ _ i^ j^ yj (^ ^ ^^ 

> o o o o o 



f- (^ i- CO (' O '-D *^ ^ * 



OOOOOOOOO: 



• o o o o o o c 









5a 



^-cDXf^^otDCOaoaooocooiO'fX)f^Iaoo>ocDO^-oo 






m U-: T ic lO ic I* iTi uT >r: .— T — T CO o £2 ^ jp 2" i? 2" 2! £2 






to *o '1^ 'O --3 o »c <c lO :o cc 'O — -^ ur lO CO T 1-T -r n T to •;• 






CO <c >o tC cc *^ 



tj-: cc *^ o ti^ »o CO 1^ •'; — -T- «5 "^' c^ "^ tc ^ -v -r 'O -r 



1 Oi OS 



C^ _ O) -^ «» — . -7} c»t 



JccrocJcoTrrrro-^TfooooJO* 



cocotbococDcoco^tocococDcccocoec?DcocDO^;ocb 



O CO ^ t- lO to « 



» o T- c^ .rs GO r^ ?o 



CDCO'^'OCOCO^CX^-tOCOJOCOr. --. -. 



CM 

d 



a--e 



^ 



^2 



ooo-^o-H-- — CJ3J^ .eo^o-^ocooooooios 

CD CO ^ ^ CO CO CO CO :0 iT; CO • CO CO CO CD CO CO CD CO "O CD »^ lO 



lOfTJorO'TjT^cooor-'Ti 
— f?! — oi cj 'TJ — c) — — :*:> 

oooo=;oc:oc:oo 

(TJ OJ c* 17* c^ c* (7J rrj c* CJ G^ 



0~ — — OOOwOCTiCO 
CO CD CO CO CO '^'^ CD CO •« CD 



cDoco-^cor-oo^c^'TJco 
cj c» CT 'T^ c:t c^ s^ c» O) 'N ^ 

CDCOCOCOCD*OCOCOCOOCD 



J QO C) — Ci O — 00 



■wc^o — — -rrocjc 

X — CO r^ OJ 00 C) — C- _ __ 

cr*cic;ccyicnoccftoc:CT> 

C» CN (7* C^ C4 (71 G^ C7J C* CN <N 

CDCDCDuOCCCO^OCDiO^OiCCD 



CDPOOCNOt^COOiClCl'^M 
O^OOOOlOOOCTiOOO) 



CO TT T -tr CO Tf -^ r^ '^ -^ CO 



^— 'OdO--cft-^r^05GOX 

eOCDCOtOCO:DOCO»OiO»0»f3 



lO ::^ X fTi :o X CI X CD X o 

— CO '-' C) O? 0» O — ' T 

0003000000=; 



oi3:?Mco:ncno)CMO— ' — TO 

CDCiOOCLCTiOOOOOC) 

coco-^'^roco'^-r-^Tr'^co 



0003iC10035 0i(7J~0 — CT>asooo>-— C^C5r-X 
COCOcDu^iOiO;C>iOCO>OCO ^CDCDiOOCCCDOCDUOir^i-O'O 



5£ 



•-5 - 



Mir:oorM'^--xt-OJX^ 
— ' (t: fM C) c» CJ CI — — — CO 
ooooooooooo 
' rr T ■^ • 



•OCO-^cDCCXf^CDXXCJ— I 

a; oi <M -r^ Cfi x> (?J — Ci X — X 

icnciooojCioooooos 

' i CO TT- TT r: ' ' 



0» f7J CJ 7J CI !?* C! Ot fTJ CI (7^ i- ff} TJ C^ Ct t7» (71 CJ CJ CM CI CN 



OOOl^SJODOGOOOJCl i^OinXOSOOiOOl^Xt^t^ 
CO^'OUO'rtuOCDUOCDOCD c;*-^CDO'OCOUOCOCOOiOWOiO 



CI CO C) X O d — ' X O) O — ' 

^ y^i — -^ -^J -:.j c^ o CI — ?o 

ooooooooooo 

C1CNOICM(NC*<MOC<(MC» 



CC'-^— — OCOCDiCCOC^CJX 
C oa5 7JC031'- o — cnCJl— t- 

t:::;aioo:ji3ioo3-cnowi 
Xror*-r'^co'co'^"T=^co-^:*5 

CI(?JCJCJC)CICJOdCIClCJ 



t^XOJO — (TJC^-^-iCCOr^XCfSO — ^CirO-^LOCOf^XOi 

r- r-. .-, CI CJ CI CI n CI CI CI c» (N CO CO 



METEOROLOGY. 



209 



No. 3. 

Occur retice of rain duriiuj the different ti tries of day, rera-pi.tul-ated from 

table No. G e and 6/. 



1856. 
July 

August 

Srpt€mlier 

October 

November 

December 



lSo7. 



Jnnu;iry . . 
February 



Total 

Mean 



March 
April , 
May . . 



8 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 



1 
1 
4^- 



h. 

1-3 



fs 



4 A 



h m. 



8-a^ 



4. m. 



32 1 5 



1 
2 



2 
310 



h. 

3 

2i% 

_9_ 
1'. 

l-» 

1 

1& 
1 

2-8- 



13 A 



A. m 
1 42 



5^_ 



h. 


A. 


h. 


k. 


A. 


h. 


h. 


3 


3ft 


h% 


4ft 


8 


8 


5 


3 


•; 9 


^ft 


4ft 


*^ft 


7 6 

'15 


7ft 





'^ft 


«ft 


W% 


t; 


8 


5ft 


? i» 


3-^ 


5-e 


4 •' 


5-3 


5 6 


6 6 
















T^5 


12 


h\ 


»ft 


•^ft 


6ft 


•V«. 


•'^f'a 


2 


4ft 


^"ft 


'^X'S 


^/ft 


5ft 


1 


2t\ 


3 


3ft 


■^ 3 
"12 


3ft 


3ft 


'44 

15j3g 


^ft 


8ft 
38j«2 


l*'ft 


^ft 


«f3 


«iP, 


22^- 


-)911 
'-12 

A. m. 


■>9ft 


54j5g 


4^ft 


A. m. 


A. m. 


A. m. 


A. »n. 


A m. 


A. tn 


L 54 


2 41) 


4 60 


a 37 


7 27 


6 48 


5 27 




A 


ft 


ift 


1 


ft 


ft 
ft 


7 


7 


7ft 


8ft 


I Of 5 


9 



n. 

" I; 
1'. 

H\ 

3 

^12 

2^, 



34^4, 



A. rn. 
4 17 



Total. 



A. 

45ft 

4^ft 

44 

3'^ft 
52i?. 



25ft 
5^ft 

34Bft 

A. tn, 
43 31 



6 

81 



14 s 



21' 



METEOROLOGY. 













High. 

Lower and lowermost. 

Hi:l). 

Lower. 

Lowermost. 












ot -- 












cn 


Ed 


r-.-r O — r^-i 








00 


2 








•-^ 






: 


-' 


•i. 


lOSD {0--1 -t^ 








a 


si 






(J> 


i-' 






i ^ 




- 


« 


- : 


(N 




'• tr- 
























^ 


<N 


- 


Tj<lO«D>-l 




a> 












:- 




- : 


CM 








- 


tOrt 


1 


OQ 
























w 


to 


O 0> C! rt to -H 5- TO 
r-c 03 CI 


s 






1^ 
m 
m 


- 




'•^tn 


■^r 


(MOJ 


£ 






TT ^ -^oo— .TO in 


an 


q 


C»3 
CI 


Ed 

m 




Jo .- (NtO 


|(M 


'•atn 


S 




H 


CO ^ CD^ ^ f-H -^ 


jlO-l 


§ 




.s 

c 


to 


!: 

JC 


Joe 

= '"' i 


e 

3 






1 








> 











0! 


ret 


toijse 


^ 


^^ 


o s c^to 


lr"l 


« 










•-(riO)«(Nl?l(M .-(D o. 




•9/(t;p jtUIBi JO 'OJI 




e» 






g 










b 


r- CO 3) f» o ?t (M oro-VTOW 


s 




« 


c» 








K 














1 












> 


s 












t ^(jicoito-* t-TOTT-a-a 


!2 


& 


>. 


Oi 


rH-^f-i r-.^ r-lr-. rl 




>. 


"3 


OJ 






.!>: 


V. 








OJ 


d 


















.= 




.< 




s 


■^ 




t^ 


































o 




s 


Oiomon-rtr- c)3)cot~rH 


oo 






b 




00 


TD 


m 


Ol 






t.-. 










o 


3 
















O 








J2 


o 


S 






E 


s 




O-lOOOOO sooco 


pH 


3 


o 








2; 




CT 








^ 










fe 


s 


oei«o.-i'a"oo ci'^-'j'oo 


00 






«! 




CO 






t^ 
































































































































LO 


















































s 












































































1^ 




,b 






s 










> 


< 


a 


c 


> 
c 
2 


t 
(= 




X 


s 


< 


> 

'1 


' 





METEOROLOGY. 

No. 5. 

Observations on the motion of strata of clouds of different heights at Colonia Tavar. 



211 





7 a.m. 


9 a.m. 


12 m. 


3 p.m. 


6 p. M. 




Date. 


Direction. 


u 

1 


Direction. 


c 


Direction. 



fa 


Direction. 


aj 

hi 
c 


Direction. 







1857. 
Apl.3 


W 


1 


W.SW... 


i 










W.SW.. 

N.NE.... 


1 

2 


Cir. and very high clouds. 
Mid stra. 7,500—9,000 h. 
Low. stra. 7,000—7,500 h. 
Ili^h 


N.NE.... 
E 


2^ 
2 


N.NE. .. 
SE 


2 
3 








Station . . 




4 






Station . . 

SE 

SW 


3 












NW 

SE 

WSW... 


2 
3 
2 






Middle 
















Lower. 

High. 

Middle. 


5 


































N.NW... 

S 

N 

W.SW.. 
S 


"2 
;< 
1 
3 

3 


W .'.'.'.'.'.'. 


"n 


S 

N 

8. &N... 
S.SW. ... 


3 

1 
2 

3 


S 


3 






6 






High. 

Middle. 




s w 

s 


2 
3 








N 


3 








7 






High. 
Middle 








s 

SW 


2 
2 


N 

s 


1 
2i 












S 


21 


Lower. 

High. 

Middle. 


8 








W 

ssw. .. 


2 
3 
















" 


9 


S 


3 


SW 


2 


s 


2 


s 


2 


Lower. 

High. 

Middle 
















s 

SE 


3 
3 






10 


s 


3 


s 

w".'. !,'.'! 
s 


3 

"si 
3 


s 


3 


s 





Lower. 

High. 

Middle. 

Lower. 

High. 

Middle 




S 

s 


2 
2 


s 

E 


2 
3 


11 


s 


2 


s 


2 




























1 


E.SE.,fog 


I 


E 


3 


E 


3 


s 


1 


Lower. 

High. 

Middle 


12 























13 


s 


1 


S 


1 


Fog,N. w'd 


3 


ESE.... 


2i 


is.sE.... 


3 


Lower. 

High. 

Middle. 
















V. & SE. 
SE 


1 
2i 












Fob 




Fog, E. . . 


2^ 




1 
2 
3 




14 










NW 

SE 

s 


High. 
Middle- 
Lower. 

High. 
Middle. 
Lower. 
Hioh. 


15 


SE 

E 


2 

3 


S 

E 

W 

S 

E 



3 

2 
k 


SE , 

SE 

M.NW... 

NW 

SE 

S.SE.... 


2 

3 

1 

24 

24 

3 


SE 

S 


2 
2 


16 


s 


"2 


s 

s 


2 
2 


s 

s 


24 
2i 












S.SW.... 

s........ 


2 
3 


s 

s 


1^ 






Middle. 


17 


s 


2 


S 

S 

w 

SE 


2,1 
2^ 
3 

2| 


s 


2^ 


Lower. 

High. 

Middle. 








w 

S 


2-J 

2i 


SW 

SE 

NW 


2 

1 
1 






18 


s 


2 


SE 


3 


Lower. 

High. 

Middle. 




SE 

SE 


2 
2 






SE 

ESE 

VV 


2i 






19 


SE 


2 


S.&E... 


2^ 


S 

W 


1 
2 


Lower. 

High. 

Middle. 




W 

W 


2^ 
24 
3 


N 


1 


W 




SW 

NW 


1 
3 




N 




s 


24 




no 










High. 




W.NW.. 


2 


NW 


2i 


NW 


2^ 






Middle. 














21 






SW."!!!*. 
N 


.... 
1 
2" 


N 

E 

S 

s.'.'.'.'.y.'. 


2 
1 

2i 

"2! 


W 

S 

E 

s.!'.!!!." 


2 
2 

2i 






High. 
Middle. 
















22 










High. 
Middle. 




s 


2 


3 


s 

SE 


2 
3 























212 



METEOROLOGY, 
No. 5 — Continued. 





E. 


ESE. 


SE. 


SSE. 


s. 


^.SW. 


sw. 


w.sw 


W. 


W.NW 


NW 


V.NW 


N. 


iV.NE 


NE 


E.NE. 


f]jo|i clnuii'^ 


"l 
10 


""5 


11 


"*i 


1 

19 
W8 






3 
1 


6 
6 

1 


1 

1 


4 
3 
1 


..... 


3 
4 
3 


"""3 






Middle clouds 

Lower clouds 


1 
2 


4 
3 






11 


.5 


19 


1 


58 


3 


7 1 4 


13 2 


8 


1 


10 


3 







From this we see that during the time from April 3 to Atiril 22— 

The E and ESE. rurrenis liave been chit fly in no olliir but the lov;cr ftrata. 

The SE., S , and ri W currents have been cliiefly in no other but the lower and midrile strata. 

The VV , W SW , and N. W. currents have been' chiefly in no other but the vjijicr and middle strata. 

The N. cu rent has been in all three sirata, the upper, miildlc, and lower strata. 
Or expre-sed in another manner — 

In the vjipcr region occur chiefly W ,NW , W SW., N. 

In the wiMIe region occur • hi. fly S., SE , W., SW., N., NW., N.NE. 

In the lower region occur chiefly S., SK , E., E.SE. 



CoLONiA TovAR, VENEZUELA, June 11, 1857. 

Dear Sir : Your kind letter of March 5, was received by me in due 
time, and a little box with eight pounds of mercury, for which I 
thank you very much, came to hand somewhat later, on the 3d of May. 

Soon after the receipt of the mercury I went to work to fill the 
barometer tube accoiding to your directions ; but with every new trial 
I ibund that the mercury fell more and moie below its standard 
height, although I was certain there could be no air above it. At 
first I could assign no cause for this failure ; but the fact that I was 
losing regularly at every new trial suggested to me the idea, that in 
handling the mercury the latter might have taken moisture from the 
atmosphere. Accordingly, I placed the barometer tube containing the 
mercuiy and a Torricellian vacuum in a nearly horizontal position 
cautiously over a brisk charcoal fire, and in this way htatfd the 
mercury for some time, until no more bubbles were disengaged. I 
was hereby especially struck with the great quantity of escaping 
moisture, and never thought that mercury could have taken up so 
much from the atmosphere during the short period required lor filling 
the tube. Can this property be due to the nitric acid, with which the 
mercury may have been purified, and which is known to absorb mois- 
ture from the air? Thus, by boiling, and at the same time making, 
use of your directions, I succeeded perfectly well in bringing the level 
of the mercury up to its standard value. In such a damp atmosphere 
as this the boding of the mercury seems to be indispensable. 

I have now the pleasur( to say, that since the 9th of May the 
barometer may be considered to be as correct and precise as when I 
first received it. 

In a separate envelope accompanying my present communication, I 
have the pleasure of sending you besides the meteorological registers 
for six months, a short essay on the cause of the daily periodical 
variations of the baroujeter, and a number of tables and diagrams. 



METEOROLOGY. 213 

Tables No. 2 a and 2 b contain half-hourly observations on the 
daily periodical variation of the barometer for 31 days, made with a 
view to determine the precise time of maximums and miniraums and 
;the amount of daily am|:)litu(le. With regard to the latter, if we take 
the mean of every six days in successit>n, beginning with the 10th of 
'May, we get the following mean amplitudes: .OfiO, .070, .068, .066, 
'.064; showing a gradual rise and fall in the numbers. The greatest 
jraean amplitude is for the period from 16th to 2l8t May, so that even 
ithese additional numbers are still in accordance with the view taken 
iwithregaid to the amount of amplitude tor the different periods of 
ithe .vear, allided to in my last letter. All the half hourly observa- 
[tions u[) to June 9, inclusive, hitherto made by me on the subject of 
i periodical variation, whicli are for 56 days, prove for the occurrence of 
I the a. m. maximum, the average time to be at IQh. lO^m. a. m., and for 
Ithe J), ra. minimum 4/i. Z\^m. p. m., which seems to agree pretty well 
with the time of daily maximums and minimums found in other parts 
of tlie globe. 

Table No. 3 is to exhibit the cumber of hours of rain during the 
diftt'rent times of the day for each month from July, 1856, to May, 
1857, recapitulated from tables No. 6 e and/. The vertical distance 
of the curve a b c from the base a d gives us the mean value of dura- 
tion of rain for any given time of the day between 6 a. m. and 6 p. m. 
This curve is the expression of the mean for eight months from July, 
1856, to February, 1857, and is laid down according to the mean 
numbers directly above it. It demonstrates very plainly that in the 
moining between 6 and 7 there was no rain; but with the advance 
of the day the rain augmented and reached its maximum between 2 
and 3 p. m., whence it gradually abated towards evening. During 
the night it very seldom rains. Mr. Boussingault's observations, 
which he made in another part of South America near Marraato, prove 
that at that jjjace more rain fell at night than during the day ; and he 
says, in his Rural Economy, "every one in South America allows that 
it rains principally during the night." Now this is in direct opposi- 
tion with my observations here, and it shows, therefore, that a ceitain 
state of the weather, especially with regard to rain, may sometimes be 
limited to small districts only. 

From table No. 3 we also see that the month of February, which 
is commonly considered to be one of the dryest of the ; ear, and pro- 
perly belonging to the very centre of the dry season, has been the 
wettest mouth of the year, with the exception of May. The dryest 
months were March and April. 

By a glance at the tables No. 6 a to 6 /, we may have a ready 
survey over the dry and wet months of the year and the distribution 
of rain in general. Here we tind that the limits of the dry and the 
rainy seasons are not very distinct, and from May, 1854, till the end 
of 1855, a period of 20 months, we find no well defined dry season, 
the mduth of February, 1855, being the dryest. But with New Year's 
Day, 1856, there commences a dry season which lasts for five months, 
the longest and dryest the colonists ever enjoyed. And it was in this 
extraordinary dry period that the loose layer of half decomposed vege- 



214 



METEOROLOGY. 



table matter, of which I spoke in my last letter, got to be dry enou^^h 
to take fire. ° 

The dry season of the present year we recognize only in the months 
of March and April and a part of January. From inquiry, I learn 
that well defined dry seasons have also been rather rare previous to 
my stay in the colony. 

Table No. 4 gives the course of the clouds for seven months. The 
most numerous direction is as usual from south and east and the points 
intermediate amounting to 293. As a striking feature may be noticed 
the increase m the number of currents from the south since January, 
when there are only six, while in April we find 37 and in May 31. 
This may well account for the fact, which captains of vessels trading 
between the United States and the coast of Venezuela have noticed so 
frequently, of meeting during the months of April and May with 
steady blowing southern breezes, and which I had an opportunity to 
notice myself on my last voyage to Laguayra. In some places east of 
the colony, on the back of the Cordilleras of the coast, I have experienced 
this steady current from the south as often as I had occasion to 
traverse this region on my way to Caracas, with the exception of only 
once. It amounts sometimes to a strong breeze. Other colonists, 
who frequent this road more than I do, have noticed this remarkable 
wind nearly at all times of the year. 




e ^ 



sea 



^mx^'-NW ^^^\ Av'^ A\ \ 




N 



S 



Several times I had a most excellent opportunity for observing and 
tracing the course of this southern current to a great distance in the 
direction south and north. I was then standing on the very crest of 
the mountains of Hie coast, having a view towards the north upon the 
sea, and towards the south over a part of the fertile valleys of Aragua. 
Scattered masses of clouds showed plainly by their motion the direc- 
tion of the current in a long line, whence it came and whither it went. 
The annexed figure may serve to give a somewhat clearer idea. It is 
to represent a vertical section of the territory from south to north, a 
the place of observation, V the valleys between the northern and 
southern ranges, c c clouds moving witli the eastern trade-winds 
towards the west, the line b d the track of the high southern current, 
which had a velocity of about twelve miles per hour, and a somewhat 
sinking tendency, until it struck the northern range, where it was 
forced upwards for a short distance until it reached the crest, and 
then went on unobstructed on the other side of the mountains, in a 
horizontal line, apparently lowering but very little, leaving hereby 
the eastern trade-winds of the sea tar below and undisturbed in their 
regular and steady course, which is nearly at right angles to that of 



METEOROLOGY. - 215 

the former. The lower clouds of the valleys showed plainly a motion 
from east to west, as seen against the dark background of the south- 
ern mountains. The high southern current was not indicated by 
clouds in those places where it was vertically over the lowest parts of 
the valley ; but when drawing nearer to the Cordilleras, on which I 
stood, the vapors which it contained condensed rapidly, and became 
visible as drifting, incoherent clouds sweeping by, and which could 
still be seen on the sea-side as long as they floated over the dense 
primeval forest, which extends here from the mountains' tops to the 
ver}' margin of the sea. 

Here I rnay also remark that the great amount of cloudiness, which 
in some respects may be regarded as a disadvantage to observation, 
offers, with regard to the currents of the atmosphere, great advan- 
tages, the condensed vapors indicating the various motions and direc- 
tions of these currents, and I have had, therefore, opportunities to 
observe them in most of their various forms. Sometimes I have seen 
the air ascend and descend vertically with considerable velocity, at 
other times pushed up the inclined planes of mountain flanks on one 
side until reaching the crest, and then gliding or flowing down on 
the other side somewhat like a liquid, following in its course the most 
depressed localities and ravines in all their windings. Sometimes the 
eastern currents may be seen in their gradually ascending but nearly 
horizontal course to meet the higher southern current at right angles, 
and, without mixing, to be deflected by the latter in a horizontal semi- 
circle, or downward or upward, as the case may be. I have also seen 
two opposite currents meet, when each endeavored to force its antago- 
nist back with alternate success and failure^ until one got the better 
over the other, and at last kept undisputed sway. 

At certain seasons of the year we may see extensive sheets of cloudy 
masses press closely over the northern or the southern range of the 
colony valley, and gliding down the declivity for a short distance 
become invisible and disappear in crossing the cultivated part of the 
valley, but reappear again on drawing near the opposite ridge. Fre- 
quently I have seen immense masses of clouds leaning against the 
northern side of the crest of the mountains, and as if stuck to them, for 
whole days, and while the base was gently sliding upwards towards 
the south, the top of the cloud, which was towering above the moun- 
tains, was bent back and moving slowly in an opposite direction. 

When standing on some high mountain, esjjecially early in the 
morning, I have seen dazzling white coherent masses of clouds filling 
up far below me whole valleys, the surface of these clouds representing 
immense and level snow fields, from which, in a most lovely and 
striking contrast, the green summits of the smaller mountains pro- 
truded as so many islets, or higher and lesser promontories of a frozen 
arm of the ocean. The delusion is sometimes most complete, and 
cannot be viewed without feelings of pleasure and surprise. The ele- 
vation oi the upper surlace of these clouds was between 5,000 and 6,000 
feet above the level of the sea. 

A striking feature in table No. 4 may be found in the prevalence of 
northern currents from November till February, inclusive, while they 
are much rarer or entirely wanting in March, April, and May. 



216 METEOROLOGY. 

Among the number of days free from clouds we find that at 2 p. m. 
throug^hout all the twelve months there was only one sintrle day where 
the sky was entirely clear, but at 9 p. m. we liad a clear sky on eighty- 
eight days. In the month of September the sky was during all the 
ninety observatinns made in that month more or less clouded. At 2 
p. m. the sky was entirely overcast on one hundred and thirty-five 
days. In May it was entirely overcast during forty-seven observations. 
The number of rainy days is two hundred and thirteen. 

Table No. 5 contains observations on the motion of strata of clouds 
of different heights. 

Observations on the motion of the highest clouds would be very 
important, but in this region we are unable to make a great number 
of such observations on account of the cloudy state of the sky, and we 
have to make the best of the few opportunities we may now and then 
get. As April is one of the most favorable months for this purpose, 
1 have chosen this time, and have taken peculiar pains in collecting 
the facts contained in table No 5. The greatest difficulty hereby ex- 
ists in telling exactly which of the many different thin strata of clouds 
are the higher and which the lower ones. I was sometimes obliged 
to watch them for ten minutes right over head ; but knowing that 
inaccurate observations are infinitely worse than none at all, I did not 
shun any inconvenience to arrive at the true motion of the different 
strata. 

From this table we see that in the upper and highest regions the 
following winds were observed chiefly to occur: W.NW., W.SW., 
N. ; in the middle regi' ns, sav from 7,000 to 9,000 feet above the sea, 
S SE., W.SW., N.NW., N.NE ; and in the lower region, say from 
7,000 down to 5,000 feet and still lower, S.SE., E., ESE. 

I may here remark that, from long continued observation on the 
motion of the clouds, 1 am inclined to believe that all the easterly 
winds of this region are gradually ascending in their course towards 
the west, while the southern as well as the western currents are 
gradually descending in their course. 

Diagram No. 7 gives a view of the curve of mean monthly tempera- 
ture for Colonia Tovar compared with the curves for New Orleans, St. 
Louis, Missouri, and Boothia Felix. I have chosen these three latter 
places because they are all North American, and lying nearly under 
one and the same degree of longitude, but in difierent latitudes ; 
Boothia Felix in north latitude 70.2°. 

Diagram No. 8 contains all the mean daily heights of the barometer 
from November 7, 1856, to April 30, 1857, and from May 9 to June 3. 
A similar diagram for June to October. 1856, I have sent alrea ly with 
one of my former letters. At that time I remarked that a kind of 
periodical rising and falling in periods from four to five days was ob- 
servable, but I did not then expect that this rule would hold out for 
the remainder of the year. ' But after I had finished diagram No. 8, 
merely to see what kind of curve these months would present to the 
eye, I was struck with its appearance in siiape, and induced to count 
the days from vertex to vertex, which, commencing with November 
11, gave me the following numbers : 6, 5, 2, 5, 6, 4, 4^ 3, 6, 4, 6, 3 



METEOROLOGY. 217 

5, 3, 4, 5, 3, 7, 3, 5, 4, 5, 3, 6, 6, 4, 4, 2, 4, 6, 5, 5, 3, 7, 4, 6, 4 = 
167, of which the mean is 4.5 days, as the mean period occurring be- 
tween every two succes-sive heights or vertices. 

The same process applied to the former diagram of the months of 
June to October, 1856, gives me the following numbers: 5, 4, 5, 3, 
5, 3, 4, 4, 4, 5, 6, 5, 4, 6, 3, 4, 3, 4, 3, 6, 4, 3, 4, 6, 10, {= 2 + 5,) 
5, 5, 5 =: 128, of which the mean number is 4.4 days. For May, 
1857, commencing with the 14th, the numbers are 3, 5, 5, 5, 3. 

No m-itter whether the barometer had a perfect vacuum or nof , the 
features of this remarkable phenom^enon are the same. The two series 
of the above numbers, and the coincidence of their mean value, prove 
beyond a doubt that they are not the result of mere accident ; but that 
this i)eriodical fluctuation in the pressure of the atmosphere is subject 
to a certain law, of whicli I am ignorant. 

l>iaiiram No. 9 exhibits two curves of the mean temperature for 
Colonia Tovar for twelve months. The upper curve is the result of 
noting down the mean temperature for evexy third port of the month, 
and presents quite a different appearance compared with the lower 
curve, in which are noted down the mean temperatures of the whole 
months only. The latter part of April and the middle of September 
show the highest, and the middle of January the lowest teniperature. 
July has usually a lower temperature than the three months on either 
side of it. The mean temj)eratures of the four meteorological seasons 
present the curious fact that three of them, spring, summer, and 
autumn, have exactly the same temperature, viz : 58.9, even to a 
fraction. The mean tem}»erature of the year is 58.2 ; difference be- 
tween the coldest and warmest month, 5.3. 

The temperature of the primeval forest, about two hundred yards 
distant from my dwelling, was, on the 25th of April, at \h. iSOm. 
p. m., 61°, at the margin 64°, when at ray house the thermometer 
was 65°. In a shady ravine I stuck the thermometer four inches deep 
into the spongy brown vegetable mould at different times of the day, 
and found the temperature always 59°, pretty near the mean tem- 
perature of the year. 58° or 59° may be considered to be the constant 
temi)erature of this region about twelve inches below the surface of 
the y;round in shady places. 

I have often observed that, whenever the sun breaks through the 
clouds and has been shining for a couple of hours, the thermom- 
eter fluctuates frequently very suddenly from one to four degrees, 
according as it is touched by a warmer or colder current of air pro- 
ceeding from the diifrently heated localities of the soil; but when 
the sky is entirely overcast such changes never take place. 

It seems somewhat remakable that, at Colonia Tovar, no heavy 
thunder-storms occur. Thunder and lightning are seldom strong 
enough to deserve to be mentioned. Trusting to past experience 
with regard to the absence ol tempests, hurricanes, and whirlwinds, 
I have covered the roof of my house with very thin and light shingles, 
not nailed down, as is done in the States, but merely hung loosely 
upon laths without any weather-boarding at all. And yet, for two 



2 1 8 METEOROLOGY. 

years, they have remained in this position undisturbed by winds and 
weather. 

The stars are here seen to scintillate on every clear evening the 
same as they do in hii^her latitudes, with the exception of a small 
area in the zenith of about 45 degrees, where they have their steady 
planetary light mentioned by Humboldt, and to be observed in lower 
regions. The zodiacal light I have never been able to see in the 
colony, although I have looked for it every clear evening. 

Besides the already enumerated tables and diagrams, I have also 
inclosed four sheets of copies of sculptured rocks, or, as they are called 
in this country, " piedras pintadas," (painted stones.) 

These rocks, which I have found in diiferent regions, in low hot 
valleys as well as on high cold mountains, seem to be the work of one 
and the same race of men. The original figures are on a large scale. 
A few well-preserved spots, sheltered by a layer of sandy soil against 
the destructive influence of the atmosphere, show that the outlines of 
these figures are grooves, engraved or chiseled very smoothly and 
regularly to the depth of at least an inch in the hardest rock, and 
evinces a skill which would do credit to any of the civilized inhabitants 
now living in this country, even when aided by tools of steel There 
is no mere scratching about them ; they have been sculptured. They 
show clearly that they were worked to last, and to outlive full many 
a change in the history of nations. The delineations are in all of 
them, whether from the sultry and insalubrious coast of Puerto 
Cabello, or from the cold mountain regions of the colony, of the same 
kind of workmanship, consisting of grooves about an inch wide and 
an inch deep. 

Time has worked sadly at most of these stones, and on some of 
them I found only traces of figures. 

All these rocks I found by accident in my botanical rambles, in 
places where I never would have ventured to penetrate, and where I 
was led by necessity when strayed and trying to find my way back. 

Whatever may be said of these figures, patiently worked into the 
rock, they were not done without a certain design. Whether they 
were intended to convey any peculiar meaning, or none at all, the 
Indians have hereby bequeathed to us the means of comparing them 
with similar monuments in other distant regions. So much is certain, 
they were worked with the intention to remain there for a long period 
of time, and to be looked at by posterity. These figures consist in 
images of objects, with which their makers were surrounded and ac- 
qua nted, as, for instance, alligators or large lizards, snakes, tigers, 
canoes, sun, moon, human heads, &c., but show no signs of imple- 
ments of civilization. Therefore these figures may be supposed to 
date anterior to the conquest of the country by the Spaniards. No 
record of the existence of these rocks, I suppose, has hitherto ever been 
made, for this region has been discovered l)ut very lately, and none 
of the natives living in the neighboring valleys have known anything 
about them. In this case I may have been the first and only stranger 
who ever beheld their yet lasting works, of which they took so much 
pains to make a show in after years. 



METEOROLOGY. 219 

But how fallacious are often the most unpretending expectations of 
nations as well as of individuals. These Indians, as a tribe or nation, 
may have removed, or become extinct, or been driven away ; for cer- 
tain it is that they are gone, and have vanished from this region. 
Month after month and year after year (until amounting to centuries) 
went silently on over the only yet remaining witnesses of their existence. 
The luminaries of day and night had their glittering rays alternately 
reflected from the inclined and even surfaces of these rocks ; the rain 
ran down innumerable times as from a roof and washed the figures 
clean. Wind and water and oxygen and beat worked slowly but 
effectually at the destruction of the figure-furrowed surface, and suc- 
ceeded but too well. But no one fcarae to wonder at the skill and 
patience of their makers. Fifty or a hundred years more would have 
done their destructive work com{)letely, and these figures would have 
vanished and gone, probably without having been noticed even by a 
single individual. 

Occupied with such reflections as these, when seated near the sim- 
ple memorials just spoken of, I feel myself richly remunerated for all 
my fatigue and the trouble to snatch them from oblivion. 

That these sculptured rocks were intended to be seen and noticed is 
proved by the fact that they are never found in the primeval forest, 
but most generally in some prominent part of a savannah, bordering 
on the forest, although now overgrown with brushwood and reeds. 
Some of the figures were found in a place partly overgrown with small 
trees, or rather shrubs of a stunted growth, mostly of small specimens 
of clusia, which fact may prove how slowly a dry savannah, even when 
undisturbed by fire, is rechanged again into a forest ; while it takes 
but a few years to change, by the aid of fire, a forest into a savannah. 

These localities show, also, clearly enough to a person acquainted 
with the mode of agriculture in the mountainous districts that the 
Indians have subsisted on agriculture and not on the chase, for by the 
latter not even a dozen individuals could keep themselves alive for any 
length of time, much less a whole tribe. 

The barometer which I carried to the region of the sculptured rocks 
assigns to them a height of about 5,900 feet above the ocean. When 
we consider the wet, cold, disagreeable, and foggy weather which 
prevails during the greater part of the year in this region, where the 
Creoles, in coming up from the warmer valleys, sometimes shiver with 
cold, where the banana and other cultivated tropical plants seldom 
bear fruit, and where Indian corn can only be raised with difficulty 
or not at all, we may perhaps be inclined to think that the Indians 
chose this cold region from predilection; and in this case might proba- 
bly have descended from the same stock that peopled and preferred 
the high regions of the Peruvian Andes. But when we afterwards 
find similar rocks near the hot and sultry coast of Puerto C<bello, and 
in other low valleys, the above inferences would have to undergo con- 
siderable modification. 

A corn or maize-grinder is in general use amongst the Creoles of 
Venezuela, which, considering its very rude and simple construction, 



220 



METEOSOLOGY. 




seems not to be of European invention. It consists merely of a flat 

stone a ]| foot long, 
14 inches wide, and 3 
inches thick, somewhat 
convex on the lower 
and concave on the 
upper surface ; the con- 
cavity h is flat, and 7 
inches wide. The run- 
ner r, with which the 
corn is crushed, is a 
stone about 5 inches 
long, 3 inches wide, and 
o^ an oval form, so as to 
fit the concavity b. The 
person crushing the corn 
stands near the upper 
end of the stone, and 
holds the runner with 
botli hands, and in crushing the previously soaked and somewhat 
pounded corn brings to bear nearly the whole w-eight of the upper 
part of the body upon the runner. The ground pulpy mass is shoved 
ofF at the lower end of the stone into, some vessel. If the pulp is not 
fiue enough it is crushed over again. This pulp, washed to remove 
the 8kins of the corn, and then baked upon hot stoves, constitutes the 
bread of all the Creoles not living in town. The whole work of 
pounding and crushing is performed by females, and is a most tedious 
drudgery. It is really astonishing that the people here have not yet 
made use of the iron corn-grinders used so universally in the back- 
woods of the United States, although they can be bought at Caracas. 
The above rude corn-grinder, or rather corn-crusher, is used also to 
crush roaeted coffee, cocoa, and salt, and has been even adopted by 
some German families. I have been explicit on this subject, because 
in Emory's "Notes of a Military Reconnaissance," page 133, I find 
made mention of a similar corn grinder used among the Pimos ; but 
whether it is of the same shape as these here I have no means to 
learn. 

Barometrical measurement shows that the river Tuy, seven or eight 
miles to the 8 SE of Colonia Tovar, is only about 3,100 feet above 
the level of the sea, while at Colonia Tovar it is at least 6,000 ieet. 
This river has therefore a descent of nearly 3,000 feet within eight 
miles, or, on an average, a fall of 375 feet per mile. Such is the terri- 
tory of tlie colony. 

On the 28th of May I carried the barometer to the " Picacho," one 
of the highest peaks in the neighborhood of the colony, and found 
the height of the mercury at 9i a. m. 22,736, thermometer 69^, from 
which 1 conclude that this mountain may be only 500 or 600 feet in- 
ferior in height to the "Silla" of Caracas, the highest peak of the 
coast range of Venezuela. 

In travelling irom Victoria towards Valencia we find, about three 



METEOROLOGY. 221 

miles west of Tarmero, right in the middle of the road, the famous 
" Zamanijf," an enormous tree, so well described hy Alexander V. 
Humboldt. Its heal, formed by enormous horizontal branches, is tbe 
most remarkable part of this giant of trees. A section of its head 
would present a shape as shown in the marginal figure. 

I measured the head in its greatest diame- 
ter from E «E. to W.NW. most careiully, 
and found it to be 206 feet 11 inches, English. 

Fifty-seven years ago it was found by ' — ^ 

Humboldt to measure in its greatest diameter 192 feet, Fr,ench mea- 
sure, which would be equal to 204.48 feet, English. Hence, it follows 
that this tree has within the last 57 years increased the horizontal 
diameter of its head only by 2 feet 5 inches, English. The branches 
are loaded with a wonderful mass of epiphytes and parasites ; and it 
seems surprising that branches of nearly 100 feet in length, standing 
horizontally out from the trunk, can support for centuries, besides 
their own astonishing weight, such an extra load of heavy plants as 
Bromeliaceai, Orchideje, Cactese, Loranthacefe, Piperaceee, &c. 

This extraordinary tree is but thinly covered with leaves ; it looks 
as if it lacks vigor to issue new slender branchlets, for its ultimate 
branchlets are old, short, thick, and of stunted growth. 

Setting out from Fetaquire, (a place nearly as high as the colony,) 
on the 8th of February, in an excursion towards the sea coast^ my at- 
tention was directed to some coioti^ees. The space over which they 
were distributed was but very limited in the direction north and 
south, but extended more towards east and west, and was about 
3,500 feet above the sea Their external appearance, the shape of the 
truok and leaves, agreed exactly with the description givea by Alex- 
ander V. Humboldt. Most of them wore trees of 1 to 1^ foot in 
diameter, but very tall. I also found some younger ones of 5 inches 
diameter. In seven or eight of these trees of diti'erent age and di- 
mensions, I made incisions, to see the milk flow. Although it was 
about the same season of the year when Mr, A. V. Humboldt saw 
the cow- tree between Valencia and Puerto Cabelio, I never could elicit 
from then much more than 1 or 2 drops in a second of time. There 
was not much difference in the flow of milk between the larger and 
the smaller trees ; and if ever I was disappointed in my expectations I 
certainly was on this occasion as to the quantity of milk. The milk 
has an agreeable, mild, rather rich taste, and becomes somewhat sticky 
between the fingers. People who live not far off, and have tried these 
cow-trees in different years, do not praise much their milk-yielding 
qualities. The cow-trees grow in the midst of shady, humid forests, 
at an elevation of about 3,000 or 4,000 feet, along the sea-fronting 
declivities of the high mountain range, stretching from east to west 
along the northern coast of Venezuela. I have neither seen the fruit 
nor the flowers of this tree ; but in comparing its leaves with leaves of 
plants in my herbarium, I find the closest resemblance in shape, 
structure and venation with some species of fig-trees. The wood is 
white and of considerable hardness. 

I passed the night in the midst of an immense forest^ on a thin 
layer of dried grass, in a small, uninhabited^ open shed, (a plantain 



222 METEOROLOGY. 

leaf thatcbed roof, resting upon six isolated posts,) near to which a 
tiger was said to have his range. Towards evening torrents of rain 
poured down ; but the night was still and undisturbed, except by the 
rushing mountain-stream at some distance oif, which appeared to the 
watchful ear like the hollow rustling of a forest in a gale of wind. 
One solitary bird near by made the spot still more melancholy by 
its mournful notes, which it sent forth from time to time throughout 
the night, unanswered by anything living. 

These damp and shady primeval forests, especially when fronting 
the sea, ar^ also to be noted for the great amount of ferns, with regard 
to species as well as to individuals. This beautiful class of plants, of 
which I have already collected 489 species within a comparatively 
small part of the country, loves moisture, shade, and stagnoMt air, and 
rarely ever succeeds in a climate or region which lacks these three 
great necessary conditions. With regard to number of individuals, 
the different heights show no marked effect. I found them in masses 
equally dense at 1,50U and 6,500 feet elevation ; and I have descended 
and ascended the flanks of the coast-chain in five different regions. 

The only difference we see is the change of species in different 
heights, and even here we find many species to extend over a great 
area of different elevation ; but most species are rather of a local habit. 

We can, therefore, from the amount of ferns which occurs in any 
given place, not very well deduce the mean temperature of that place, 
as is sometimes done in geology, in conjectures about the temperature 
of the earth's surface at the time of deposition of the coal fields, unless 
we know what temperature belongs to the luxuriant growth of that 
very species which we wish to draw conclusions from. The yearly 
mean temperature of the fern region may vary from 56° to 80° F^ 



CoLONiA TovAR, VENEZUELA, January 10, 1858. 

Dear Sir: Under date of June 11, 1857, I sent you a letter, to- 
gether with some meteorological registers and a number of tables and 
diagrams, which you probably will have received in due time. In- 
closed I send you now — 

No. 1. Registers of meteorological observations for seven months, 
viz : from June to December, 1857, inclusive. 

No. 2. A table showing by the length of horizontal lines at what 
time of the day it rained at Colonia Tovar for each day from June to 
December, 1857, inclusive. 

No. 3. A table containing a recapitulation of the occurrence of 
rain expressed in number of hours, for all the months from July, 
1856, to December, 1857, from 6 a. m. to 10 p. m. This table also 
shows by the length of straight lines the comparative value for 
each month, as regards the number of hours of rain ; and in another 
diagram the mean rain value for each hour from 6 a. m. to 10 p. m. 

It may not be uninteresting here to see what a symmetrical figure 
the curve a b c represents ; how it rises gradually from 6 a. m. to the 



METEOEOLOGY. 223 

hour between 2 and 3 p. m., and tlien sinks to 10 p. m. nearly as 
gradually as it rose. 

No. 4. A table giving the course of the clouds of the higher, mid- 
dle, and lower strata for the months of June to December, 1857. 
The motion of the clouds from the E., E.SE., 8E., S.SE., and S. is 
by far the most prevailing, amounting to 415, while the motions from 
all the other eleven points amount only to 133. November and De- 
cember show, as usually, a preponderance over the eight preceding 
mouths with regard to motion of the clouds from the northern re- 
gions. The motions from the west, with only one exception, took 
place in the highest regions of the atmosphere. This puts me in 
mind of the fact that, while at Santa Fe, New Mexico, the steady 
course of the higher clouds from the west had frequently attracted 
my attention. 

No. 5 gives a view of the fluctuation of the mean daily heights of 
the barometer for seven months. My remarks in a former letter about 
the falling and rising of the mean daily height of the barometer, 
which from one maximum to another requires, on an average, 4| days, 
still hold good, as will be seen by the following series of numbers, 
which are the number of days counted from one maximum height to 
the next following one. 

Beginning with my earliest barometrical observations, counting 
from the 14th of June, 1856, and ending with the 30th of October, 
1856, the day on which the barometer got out of order, we have: 5, 

4, 5, 3, 5, 3, 4, 4, 4, 5, 6, 5, 4, 6, 3, 4, 3, 4, 3, 6, 4, 3, 4, 6, 10, 5, 

5, 5 = 128 days, of which the mean is 4.57 days. 

JL3eginning again, when the barometer was put into use, with the 
12th of November, 1856, and ending with the 30th of April, 1857, 
the day on which the barometer was taken apart to be mended, we 
get : 6, 5, 2, 5, 6, 4, 4, 3, 6, 4, 6, 3, 5, 3, 4, 5, 3, 7, 3, 5, 4, 5, 3, 6, 

6, 4, 4, 2, 4, 6, 5, 5, 3, 7, 4, 6, 4, 2 = 169 days, of which the mean 
is 4.45 days. 

Beginning again, when the barometer was in good order, with the 
13th of Mav, 1857, and ending with the 31st of December, 1857, we 
get: 2, 3, 5, 5, 5, 3, 4, 5, 4, 4, 3, 3, 3, 2, 4, 8, 4, 4, 5, 3, 4, 7, 2, 5, 
4, 4, 5, 6, 5, 4, 5, 2, 4, 4, 2, 5, 3, 7, 7, 5, 4, 4, 5, 6, 4, 5, 10, 8, 6, 
6, 3 ^ 230 days, of which the mean is 4.51 days. 

The mean of all these three series is 4.51 days. 

No. 6 contains the half-hourly observations on the daily periodical 
variations of the barometer for 157 days, which, together with those 
made from the 10th of May to the 10th of Juno, amount to 186 days, 
including more than 2,000 half-hourly observations of the barometer. 
Duiing these seven months* I was, if I may use the expression, " liv- 
ing under the clock ;" for I had to keep a continual lookout for the 
arrival of the moment when one half hour after another would be up. 

How often was I interrupted in my out-door manual labors in order 
to attend to these observations ! And but the desire to help carry a 
few useful materials towards the building ground of the great struc- 
ture of meteorology, which no doubt one day will be reared in all its 
perfection, could keep me at work with patience unwearied. I should 
have continued these half-hourly observations still longer, but my 



224 METEOROLOGY. 

other engagements multiplied so much that I fonnd it utterly impos- 
sible to do 80. The clock I used is a first rate time-piece, and was 
compared, from time to time, with the meridian line laid down by 
observation of the north star. 

No. 7 contains the mean barometrical height* of all the half-hourly 
observations made in 1857, recapitulated chiefly from table No 6, to 
"which are added the monthly means of the barometer at 7 a. m., 
2 p. m., and 9 p. m. These latter means are not the means of the 
tvhole months, but of those days only on which half-hourly observa- 
tions have been made. 

No. 8 exhibits the curves of mean height of the barometer in its 
course from 7 a. m. to 9 p. m., laid down according to the numbers 
in table No. 7. We find these curves to be much more regular, and 
more gradually and smoothly rounded off in proportion to the number 
of days, of which they are the mean result. So is, for instance, the 
curve c, resulting from the mean of eight months, more smoothly 
rounded than the curve of the month of August or that of May ; and 
these again more smoothly rounded than the curves resulting from 
single days, which I have sent in my previous communications to you, 
and whicii are more or less angular. 

The curve c in diagram No. 8 may therefore serve to illustrate the 
true and normal course of the periodical rise and fall of the barome- 
ter from 7 a. m. to 9 p. m. Its rise and fall from 9| to 11 a. m., 
and from 4 to 5 p. m., are very inconsiderable ; butfrom 1 to 2| p. m., 
and from 7 to 9 a. m., far more rapid. There exists also a dilference 
in the shape of the curve of the month of August compared with that 
of the month of May. 

No. 9 contains the mean amplitudes of the barometer, calculated 
from table No. 6, for periods fi'om six to six successive days; also, the 
mean am])litudes for periods from 12 to 12 days, and likewise those 
for the different months. All these mean amplitudes are laid down 
in diagram No. 10, in their proper position, according to their numeri- 
cal value. 

No, 10. The monthly means in the first curve exhibit a pretty 
regularly rounded curve. The second curve, that is, the curve of the 
twelve daily means, is somewhat more irregular. The third, or six 
daily' curve, is still more irregular, exhibiting many projecting 
corners. The fourth and lowermost, which can no longer be called 
a curve, and of which, to save time, I have given only a small portion, 
exhibits in a striking manner the great fluctuation of the daily am- 
plitudes. 

At first view there seems to be not the^ least tendency in them to 
follow a certain law with regard to their mean value. This law, 
however, becouies apparent, when we look at the next curve above, 
and still more so in the two uppermost curves. The third curve 
shows, also, that the nature of the curve of mean amplitudes is not 
the same in every year ; in 1857, for instance, it is much higher from 
October to December than it was in LS56. All this indicates plainly 
enough that the daily amplitudes of the barometer are subject to 
great disturbances by -some cause or other. 

Great as the irregularities caused by such disturbances are in tlie 



METEOROLOGY. 225 

above curve, they do not invalidate the view I advanced in a former 
letter about the nature of this cuive, as it ought to be in its normal 
value. In their main features both coincide, if we make due allow- 
ance for the short period during which these observations have been 
continued. The curve in diagram No. 10 having its first maximum 
near the 18th of May, its minimum near the 8th of July, and its 
second maximum near the 2*7th of October, and if we were to draw a 
mean line between the heights of 1856 and 1857, the second maximum 
would be near the 3d instead of the 27th of October. 

No. 11. In order to compare the course of the morning temperature 
of Colonia Tovar with that of some place of the southern part of the 
United States, I have in diagram No. 11 laid down in dotted line the 
course of the temperature at 7 a. m. for the different days of March,,, 
1852, as observed by me at Memphis, Tennessee, with the same ther- 
mometer with which I made my first observations at Colonia Tovar. 
The other line is the course of temperature at 7 a. m. for the different 
days of March, 1857, at Colonia Tovar. 

Besides the regular observations specified above, I have made from 
time to time, just as occasion offered, memoranda on many other me- 
teorological subjects which came under my observation. These memo- 
randa were made either at the time of observation or immediately 
after. They are rather numerous, and for want of time I am unable 
at present to arrange them properly, or to make a selection from 
among them. 

I may^ however, afford so much time as to give the following : 

July 27. In pre}taring for a journey to La Victoria, I rose early in 
the morning. At 4^ a. m. there was a dense fog. Intending to step 
out, and opening the kitchen door which leads into the open air, I 
saw the sprightly burning kitchen fire reflected from the fog as from 
a white, smooth, and solid wall ; and, besides this, a halo of about 
twenty feet diameter, as plain and well defined as I ever saw around 
the moon. This halo, with the reflected fire in its centre, appeared 
to be close before me in a vertical plain, and it changed its position 
whenever I changed mine, either to the right or to the left. 

At a first superficial glance upon the map it may seem as if the 
northern coast of Venezuela, on account of its great distance, can have 
nothing to do with the climate of the United States, or that the me- 
teorology of the two countries can have no feature common to both ; 
but observation proves it to be otherwise. And if we take a more 
comprehensive view of this vast region, we see that the Mexican gulf, 
together with the Caribbean sea, is nothing more than a great inland 
sea basin with numerous and spacious entrances to the northeast and 
east. Five States of the Union forming its northern shore ; Venezuela, 
New Grenada, and Central America, its opposite or southern shore. 
Here I may also remark about the Venezuelan mountain range of the 
coast, that its northern declivity towards the sea is generally very 
steep, and in many places near its crest bearing marks of immense 
masses of its body having sunk on that side far below its original 
level, while on the other or southern side, no such marks are visible. 

If we want to study in Venezuela the mutual influence of atmos- 
pheric currents of these two opposite shores, viz : The southern coast 
15 s 



226 METEOROLOGY. 

of the United states, and the northern of Venezuela^ we must not try- 
to do it on that low and extremely narrow strip of land, which, bor- 
dering the sea, stretches along the foot of the mountain chain running 
east and west, parallel with the seashore. This low and narrow strip 
of land has a climate of its own widely different from that of the Uni- 
ted States. But when we take our abode on or near the top of the 
mountain ridge where we are above the steady eastern trade winds, , 
and find ourselves in quite a different set of atmospheric currents, and I 
if we then pay particular attention to the more violent northerly ■ 
winds, which now and then blow in this region, and to the great ; 
southerly current, which lowers gradually in its course, reaches the : 
surface of the sea somewhere between latitude 16"^ and 26° north, and 
generally blows steady during a great part of the summer and fall of 
the year up the Mississippi valley, even beyond latitude 39° north ;* 
we then will recognize in the moisture-laden southeastern, as well as 
in the dry and chilling northwestern, by their very peculiarities, their 
namesakes of the United States. 

It is but five or six times a year that I am fortunate enough to get 
hold of a few newspapers in these mountain solitudes, and it is seldom 
that they contain anything regarding the weather of the United 
States. However, I have read, only a few days ago, in a New York 
paper of August 22, 1857, the following: 

"A private letter from New Orleans states that up to the 18th 
instant, it had rained there every day for thirty-eight days consecu- 
tively, and was still raining." 

Now, by referring to my register of meteorology I find a singular 
coincidence between the occurrence of rain at New Orleans and Colonia 
Tovar. The inclosed table No. 2 exhibits this more strikingly, for 
we see here at once, that of all the seven months there is no other 
equally long period that can compare with the period (rom July 18, 
to August 20, with regard to the number of rainy hours. 

The following sentence from the Weekly Herald of September 5, 

1857: 

" From New Mexico. The season has been unusually dry and cold, 
and the crops look very badly. So little rain has fallen that the little 
stream near Santa Fe is dried up," shows that the rain-spending 
southeast current of the atmosphere, which soaked in the month of 
August the soils of Colonia Tovar and New Orleans, never was felt at 
Santa Fe, New Mexico ; and that there is a closer correspondence 
between the aereal strata of the coast of Venezuela and the lower ones 
of Louisiana, than between those of Louisiana and those of Santa Fe, 
although the distance in a straight line between the two former places 
is more than double the distance between New Orleans and Santa Fe. 

Again, we find in the Weekly Herald of January 17, 1857 : 

" A terrific hurricane swept over the city and harbor of Vera Cruz 
on the 20th of December," and " a heavy northerly gale had prevailed 
for several days previous to the 25th of December (at Havana.") 

My meteorologicul register of Colonia Tovar shows, on the 17th of 

* While living at St. Louis, Missouri, I had a good opportunity to notice, during several 
years, in July, August, and September, a steady southerly breeze almost day after day. In 
some years, however, this wind blows less regular than in other years. 



METEOROLOGY. 227 

December, 1856, at 7 a. id., north wind, 4.; on the 19th, at 7 a.m., clouds 
from the north, 4. ; on the 20th, at 7 a. m,, clouds trom the north, 3. ; 
at 9 p. m., clouds from the north, 4. Number 4, as an indication of 
force attached to the winds or the clouds is extremely rare in the 
register for Colonia Tovar, and therefore denotes something extraor- 
dinary. The mean barometer height was remarkably low on the ] 9th, 
20th, and 23d of December, vid : diagram of mean barometer height 
for 1856. 

I could, no doubt, cite many more instances of this kind if I had 
the means to know what is going on in other parts of the world. 

To make observations in this country about the higher strata of the 
atmosphere and their motions, no place, I should think, would be 
more adapted than the mountains of Merida, which are said to reach 
the line of perpetual snow. There we have a gigantic range of snow- 
capped mountains stretching from southwest to northeast. Its base is 
washed on one side by the warm waters of the gulf of Maracaybo, that 
great arm of the sea, which runs far inland, and expands in a vast 
basin near the mountains. On the other side lie^ in near approach, 
those immense, level, grassy plains, the Llanos of Venezuela, which 
are but slightly elevated above the level of the sea, and entirely bare 
I of forest. 

When in the dry season the sun, unobstructed by clouds, acts upon 

the extensive sheet of the already very warm water of the gulf, with 

all the power of its nearly vertical rays, the quantity of vapor carried 

into the air by evaporation must be immense, while at the same time^ 

: on the opposite side of the mountains, the rarified strata of the atmos- 

' phere vibrate over the dry and burning hot surface of the llanos as 

! over a heated furnace. 

I The phenomena which the different strata of air under such cir- 
j cumstances must exhibit would, I think, form a worthy and highly 
; interesting subject of study for the meteorologist, and tend to advance 
' the cause of his science. Happy he who has the means and the mind 
j to do so ! 

i In connection with the foregoing, I will mention only one phenom- 
i enon, near the lake of Valencia, which may show some of the effects 
: of evaporation with regard to its disturbance of the atmosphere. 

As otten as I have visited Valencia in the dry season I have ob- 
served a violent northerly wind, amounting sometimes to a very stiff 
breeze, blowing there late in the afternoon till 10 or 11 o'clock at 
night. I found this same wind also in other parts of the valley of 
Aragua near the lake of Valencia, as, for instance, in Cagua and San 
Jose. 
I By inquiry I learned that this is a regular wind, commencing and 
i; ending with the dry season, returning every year as regularly as the 
I season itself; that it rises every afternoon, continues till late at night, 
: and is very annoying to the inhabitants by the dust it raises. 
[ By reterring to Humboldt's Travels I find the following sentence^ 
} where he speaks about the site of the town of Valencia: " liut there 
1 is an opening on the meridian of Nueva Valencia, which leads towards 
the coast, and by which a cooling sea breeze penetrates every evening 



228 METEOROLOGY. 

into the valleys of Aragua. This breeze rises regularly two or three 
hours after sunset." 

Now, here we see that this phenomenon was as regularly exhibited 
fifty-seven years ago as it is now, and no doubt has been going on 
from time immemorial. The same causes that were then at work are 
still at work as forcibly as ever. While at Valencia the slapping of 
the doors, the columns of dust that came sweeping by, and other | 
signs of a violent rush of wind indicated to me with unfailing cer- .| 
tamty that it was after 3 or 4 p. m. Travellers and muleteers, in ij 
going from Valencia to Puerto Cabello, are especially annoyed on the i\ 
first six miles of their road by the dust, so that they have to cover • 
their faces or shut their eyes most of the time. 

It was natural for me to reflect upon the probable cause of this phe- • 
nomenon, and a circumstance soon presented itself to help me towards i 
the solution of this problem. 

For on the 11th of March the sky was densely clouded, all day, over ■ 
Valencia, and the whole valley of Aragua, including the lake, and it 
looked as if it was going to rain. In the evening, the usual regular • 
wind failed to make its appearance altogether. 

To account for the alternating daily land and sea breezes of the ; 
coasts in general, there exists a well-known explanation, based upon 
the rarefaction of the air by the heated surface of the land or water. 
This explanation, however, will not do in the above case ; for at Va- 
lencia the wind begins to blow from the seaside not in the niorning, 
when the land becomes heated, but, on the contrary, in the afternoon 
when the land begins to cool again. 

When in equatorial regions the direct rays of the sun act for some ' 
time upon a widely spread mass of water, surrounded by land, as, for 
instance, a lake, they evaporate powerfully the water from its surface ; 
that is, they convert a liquid into an aeriform fluid. In this latter 
state the water requires several hundred times more room and exerts a 
certain pressure which added to the pressure of the atmosphere,* with 
which this vapor is mixed, overpowers the surrounding dryer atmos- 
phere, and spreads or shoves the latter outward in nil directions to ) 
make room for itself. In such an atmosphere, saturated with invisible : 
vapor, its permanent gases are much more attenuated than when im 
a dry state ; but they nevertheless exert, by the aid of the invisible ■ 
vapor, an overwhelming outward pressure. 

That amount of pressure, however, which tlie vapor exerts, can be 
easily annihilated by condensation, and thereby a partial vacuum be 
produced, into which the external air will strive to rush with great I 

force. 

Now, in the surrounding bottom lands of the lake, the air loses 
towards evening, in the dry season, by radiation against an unclouded I 
sky, more caloric than it receives. 

It therefore seems highly probable, that the gradual decrease of' 
temperature, by which the vapors of the air above the lake of Valencia 
lose part of their tension, is the cause of the r egular breeze which 

* Accordino- to the great fundamental principle, that in any given space, the power of ten- 
sion of two or more mixed aeritorm bodies is equal to the sum of all those tensions which 
each of these aerial bodies would exert, if it was to occupy the whole space by itselt. 



METEOROLOGY. 229 

blows as long as the temperature of the air falls : that is, till 10 or 11 
o'clock at night. It is easy to imagine what a hurricane would blow 
if the cooling and condensing of the vapors were to be very sudden. 
What interesting barometrical and other observations could be made 
in the neighborhood of this lake! 

Very frequently at night or evening, throughout the rainy season, 
we may observe, at Colonia Tovar, favored by the absence of daylight, 
flashes of lightning unaccompanied by any audible noise of thunder. 
This noiseless discharge of electricity shows itself also frequently in 
the daytime ; but of all the many discharges of lightning during a 
three and a half years' residence I have heard only once or twice 
thunder loud enough to be compared with those of the United 
States. 



230 



METEOROLOGY. 



•a 
e 

a 

ta 

OJ 

•a 
"a 




•aojo^j 








(?» 














! '^ 








(M 




- 


- 




« 




■U(]33.1!fl 






OT 








t> 






02 






^ 




^" ^ 




& 






•asjoj 












n <n 




























■UjlDOJIQ 












^ 


^ 


3 
bo 






























•80J0J 










































•UjIDyjIQ 












^ 


■a 






























•a 

3 


5 


05 


•a 

s 










































•XjpoiaA 




CO rH (N e« n • 




-10 
























3 

5 






tc 


K 


E£l 






m 
























•junomy 


in r^ CO CD OS rH 000 10 





■V 00 C50>00 


S3 


n3 
C 

5 












6 
fa 




















5 

c 












•XiioopA 


OtdOlN CM CTO« ra (N (NJJCT(N(M(J! 


O! 


01 <MOIOt010IO»(M 


3 






mm 


m 


K 


a ^ 


H 

03 

m a, 


•E£ 
ace 
as 


a : 

HZ 








H 
tn 

a fa 


S 

E 

S. &, SE. 
SE 


a' 


•junouiv 


t^Oioco r^ OQOcoc^i^o 





t~ 10 CO 10 1- 


-5 


5 






1^ 




bo 











C 




c 








ao 






•^(liooiOA 


(N SJ"^ ^ ^ 5f 


of Sf ci 5? 


of 


0? cj ota^ a 


ST 01 


3 





a. 


^ : 

'^ '. 

mmu. 


m 


Ei. 


a 


aa 
!»a 


E' 




b. 


fc 


V 


a 
a > 




■ cr 


r-i 


•junouiy 


« 05tD 00 t» r-( rtCO ■* 





CO i-HOO a 


'3 




s 

0. 



6.10 p.m.. 

9.10 a. m.. 
9. 40 .a. m.. 
4.90 p. m. 
6.15 p. m.. 
11.30 a. m. 
2.55 p. m.. 
S.l.'sp. m.. 
6.30 a. m. 
5.10 p. m.. 






r-l C 

• n _;- 

in "« 


7.30 a. m.. 
11.10 a. in. 
5.15 p. m.. 
6.30 a. m.. 
19.10 p. m. 
1.40 p. m.. 












Time of 
beginning. 


0. 



6.5 p. ni. .. 

8.40 a. m.. 
9.30 a. m.. 
3.55 p. m.. 
4 40 p. m. . 
10.55 a. m. 
2.45 p. m.. 
4.40 p. m.. 
5.50 a. m.. 
7.40 a. m.. 






4.55 p. m . 

10.45 a. m. 
6.40 p. m.. 
6.25 a. m.. 
10.45 a. m. 
4.5p. m... 
At night . .. 
11.15 a. m. 
1 p. in 














a 

Q 




25 


3 


o 


c 


J •>a 


p ir 


> C( 


3 r- 


■ X 





c 


" •■ 









c 


■a 


'- 


cc 


t- 


E 


Ol 



METEOROLOGY. 



231 



-< : — oi '• ' -H r ; 


j — JOI 1 (Tt J 








ii '[^z i : ^ • ■ 


: ^ l^': t\ 






















- : i * i '^ • 






• • I : • "^ 














• : : ; : ; • :^ 




'^Ci 1 • 


: : : • : : : -a 
: . : • : : ::» 

• : : • : : : i"^ 




•a I • 

a" 

(joa : : 


o o n=> in • lO •■3" 


1 00 |c» 1 ^ jo 


r^ 


1 




; : 
:j .J 


• 


: : 1 


WW « — <r» '->->a)s) '-0* 5? ;5<'(m 


1 


• .a'^a ...... cQ .TJ . ■ 


:H : : 

aa : : 


o =500J r-" oo'o ; 


Tr-o • |a> 


oi 





Fog.. 
Fog.... 

Lpw .. 

mist. 

Low .. 
Fog.'.".* 






5? CI I* n (U 01 : 5i • -^ • ci ' (N ci 1-1 <n • • 


': ."aa = '■ i'". i g 
m tnxcn wa jH ; ^ 


:a • • • 
.CO : . 


ad 




O C ?5 O «>• <=> "o I 


SJ |o I 00 -o 


§1 


I-' 


c\ ci . in r? . « 01 r^ = ^. = CO - o 2; -. ^_ ^ a.". '^. =? : : 


S.lOa. m.. 

10.30 a. m 

'7. "20 "a." In!! 
5.20 p. ni.. 

ii.40 p. in.. 
8.15 p. in.. 
6.35 a. m. , 

12. 15 p. in. 

5 p. in 

5.40 p. in.. 
10.. 30 a. in. 
1.30p m.. 

5 p. in 

11.30 a. m. 
1.45 p. m.. 
3.5 p. in. .. 
5.30 p. in.. 
7 20p. m.. 


— Cl C-3 T 10 to 

01 Ol 51 <N <M 01 IN 





CO 







c 



232 



METEOROLOGY. 



'fe. 



ft5 







E 

a 




Thunder at 5^ p. m. 

Barometer unusually 

low in the afternoon. 

Strong gusts of wind 

from the E. at ~i\ p. m. 








2 

4! 

a 

2 

o 
>. 


3 

a; 


CO 




CO -^ 


oo 

■i 




«|ei -lot 
CO:OOOcOiOtO»OiOCO'OiOCDiOiO»OiOOOOtO»OCOO;DCOiOiO.OCO 


CO 

r^ 1 00 




-la -I«-lai-<la-te* -la -In 


CO 

CO '^ 




S 

b 
o 






I 










■JIB uado UI jsiauiouuaq) sb duiBs 3i|X 
















' 






'3 

c 
a> 

§■ 

a 

« 

S 
o 

B 


C 


t-or~c^cicocococo?503t~nr^iOQOooooot^ot^i-r-c^ot~o 


t^ 

t- 


1'. 


Smiomomi-Ti/jirstDinininoioioinioioinininiflirKOinxiioirjio 


3) 


SSft55^SS?igSg!8S:^S?KSSSSSSSSSKS55SS 




s 




Of 






CO 


■i 


tOOiOiOOiOiOOiOtOOiOOiO»OOiO»Oioio»Ou:>»Okr5iO»Oif5»OiOiO 


o 


■1. 

|8 


£ 

o 

re 
05 


•a 
a> 

o 
a 

S 

S 
o 

g 




S§Sg3S5£5SS?5SS:gSSSSSS5SSSSSSK;§g 














t- 


iO o o *o o irs *o *o "O to "O ITS lo »o lO >o u5 lO o o o w^ »r: lo lO >c »iO »n «^ lo 












O 

1? 




30 


0)t» CN (M &) 


as 


S 




S3io3oioioJaj3icnSSaj3ia»3i35snosO)0>aiajOiOiC53i05aio505 


T 


(D 

§ 


CO M 
0» (M 


^* 






•5 


oiScnoS3S>So)OT0535 3jO)OjO)5»cnoia> = ooo>350icn05cnma5 


in 


s 


C! S (N (N <U 0< 


OT 








C!5 

o a 




5 


2 

o 

EH 


1 





METEOROLOGY. 



233 



■a 

o 

<c 
•a 

t 

•§ 

a 




■80J0J 
















. c< . 










3) 


'UOt}33i!Q 
















'i M 


: i^ 


\i : 




I ^ i 


•aoioj 




























•uoijaaiiu 




























s 

^ 


•aojoj 
















i - : 












•uoijaaJici 
















: ^ : 












•a 
5 
O 




•3 




























•iCjpoiaA 






'■n '• 


• 5 


















0} 

3 
C 

O 






'.a 




■ a 

ja 
















•junoiuy 


TO 


n 


t^ 


t^ 


o 


CO O C 00 •-< 


00 |o : 03 


ir '. 




■a 




c 


- J 

5- 










: : 5 


:5s 




3 H ij 


•XjiaopA 




T( -1 5? j tN CI 5?I1 I? (H 1 <N -H O) JTJ d 5??? 


-H .CO o» ot 


3 




a !a -a -aa'a i : a 

CC • -fi : CO ^- K 02 ^ g . ID 

a-^a'aoaa'/joQ m • a ek 


•E>a 


.a" 3 : : 
x!a|z :2 


m'Jl 


lunoiuv 


O) O C3 


■■o 


00 


O O I 00 o 


=5 Jo 1 O 


\n '• 


E 

'j 
r- 


5 




i M^ 


fl 






: ^ . ': 


5 


ill! ! 




•XipoiaA 


^ 5? -1 ^"(N —1 <N 1 


<n J • oT <r< n ifST-c I CO ■ 


CJof 


2 

3 
O 


X 


a" :a :k 

a aj •/: 53 a 






a : : a -a • : 

nj 1 f 03 >a5?02a 


: H 
: w 

: m 


aiR 


•junoray 


t~ M » in o ■ 


O O Iot~<NG3.0 


cs 


a 
'3 


o op 

p3 




8.10 p. III. . 
3.30 n. m.. 


"^ " cj ]^ "T c3 

-crt^a-s.^ en. 

O 3 CO lO O Cl O lO 

-a-T— icot rri^ 




1.30 p. m.. 
2.45 p.m.. 

night.. 

1.30 n. m. . 


ire 




.= '3) 




; ; i = 
■ 12 


_;i3rjc.i3 gd. 

~= ~ U-; o 117 o " o 

.o lO s — =^ — ' -; — " 

n rj ^ c~-" li I--' 30 ■» o 


: ! s : c' 2 H i 

— . o z -• ire 

: : =:<?.■:• 3 2 5 








P 


r-' 

oo 


- 


Gi 


CO 


■» 


u- 




to t' oc 


a 


o — 


Cl 


er 





234 



METEOROLOGY. 



■a 
"3 

•a 

a 




•aojoj 










o« 






a 




OJ 


































•uonaajia 


^ 


^ 




^' 






^ 




& 






















5 






^ 








•aoioj 






















































•UOIJDajTQ 


























































•aojoj 
























































•U0I1D3JIQ 
























































"2 

c 

5 


b 

35 


T3 

c 


























60 




























•j(jI00I9A 
























































6 

3 

o 

o 
























































•junouiv 


o 


o 


o 


- 


in 


« TO o 


o 




00 


r- 


- 


o CO o ; 




m 

e 
3 


o 


6 

Is 
~ c 






: c 




































•XjiDOlaA 


(M 


-1 S?(?« Sf <M a S?CN (N -H OJ C) .-1 5. 


""(MC) 


-151 


0» '^<H 01 ' 


3 
o 
D 




or 


: : : : : :h : 
: ra : : :■« •' 


K 


■a 




7 

or 






fc 


raa 


or 


: 


•jiinomy 


t~ 


r- 00 <o 


03 05 OC 


o 


03 


r^ Oi o 00 " 


■i 


-3 
2 


1^ 
O o 








o 


6 ; 

•3 £• 
•3 60 


•a -a S 
S S>2 








tj 

c 
E4 


D 




60 
O 




•jfliooiaA 


(N(N 






(MOJ •-! i-H (N 01 Ol 


(N 


01 (N (M 




OJ 


3 

O 

O 


□Q 


la 






W 


re 


m 
ra ^ 


ra ma 








^_. 


or 








H 


•junouiy 


OOOWTOt^rt o to 


c 


C * CO oo o 


B 

■3 


O bo 










6 p. m., 

heavy. 
12.45 p. m. 
3.40 p. m.. 
1.15 p. m.. 
2.5p. m... 
4.15 p. m. . 
10.40 a. m. 

3.10 p. m.. 
8.45 p m.. 
5 a. m 

3.5 n. m. . 


•£ 

Cri IT 




7.45 a. m.. 
2.30 p.m., 

mist. 
3.10 p. ra.. 


•o si 










3.55 p. m. . 

12 30 p. m. 
1.30 p.m. . 
12.3up. m. 
1.30 p. m. . 
3.50 p. m., 
9.15 a. m.. 

12.30 p.m.. 

8p. m 

4.30 a. m.. 
3 n. m 


^ lO ffJ lO d 
OO — ' t-' 05 






E 

d 

oj 








00 ^ 




u- 




to 




r- 




00 




O) 


o 
(?) 


c5 




S:! 






C5 
Ql 




-I* 




s 




g 


s 


S 





METEOROLOGY. 



235 



-J . (N 


. o 








^ ! ^ 


: ^' 




































































i-c (M 








CO 






« • o> - 


« 


CO 




















<?» -H j 






Ed 


a 02 : 




i^ I o) : 


c 


00 


CO 
00 




BO 










« 












c 
• .2 

^ 03 










O J CO 


o 


s 


00 


S ^ S £ = 

»n o = >n IT 
•V ic o» ■<?- — 

r-' a> -r c^' ^ 


_; C. ^ 

O T O 

o — ci 






SH £ = S = 

« Q.c.=.a_ 
lo I.-: m ift = ? 
— — (^^ ■« n ^ 


i. 




! ci ri r; c^" t' - 


i ? 




c- 




c 




a 



236 



METEOROLOGY. 









Thunder. 

Thunder, very faint, at 
5 p. m. 








1 
c 

(2 


3 


OS 




OS 


■o 




OSCOOOOSOOOOaJt^OOOOOOIN— (OOOOt^t^OSOOOClOI^OO — -HOOXl 1 55' 


o 

Os' 






CD 


.a 
























■jru uado ui jsjauiouijaq} se aaivs aqj, : 
























'3 
C 

o 

£ 
o 

s 


3 

0) 


r-noi^oonot^ioot^ooo — i^t~i>r3t»oi>c>;oo>o?^«r^?^c<:i 


00 in 
3 -" 


coosooojosoooooO(i)ost^<£i30ooos500oior-ooosr-f^ooo5coooo = r; 


OS 


KSSSSSSSSiSKIgSSSSlSSSSSgSgfiSSggSS 




ira 




gSiSS2gSSS2SSg§S;23SS5gSSSgS33SSSS 




a 


5SSgsKSSSsssss§ssKSs:j?:ssssS"sfisss 


Ss" -"J" 


1 

o 
a 


■a 

i 

o 

0) 

H 


2 
en 


cot^t^ooiosr*ostooooicDt^oicocnoicDiooo-<ot-QOto-Hoocooaj 








cbcbcOCOCOeD<^COcbcOCOLOCOCDOCOtOCO:OCOCDCOCOCOCO;OCDCDCC>C£i>h • 






■< 








J3 




OJasOSO!Osasas010S033SOSOSOOSOS33C30SOS050SOSOSOSOSO)0: OSOJS 


o 




■ 


c5 So atat 


CI 








OsSosOS01050SOJO>OsOSCS05000SOSOS010SOSOSOSOSOSOS030saJ330S 


00 

oo 


(N 

s 


.i 


S o! S 


(N 


CO 


■i 


iiiiiiliiliiiliiislliliiiiiisii 


OS 
00 


n 


s" ■ s s s 


2 


(N 




4) 

n 






o 


c 

(S 
V 





METEOKOLOGY. 



237 



■6 

-3 

"a 

■a 
c 


OS 


•aojo^ 






















- 










- 


|o» 








•uoqoaJiQ 




















: ^ : 


> ; 






^ 


:& : 








•OOJOj 






























1 










•uoijDaJ!(i 






































< 


•30JOJ 










































•uoiioa-iid 










































3 

O 

5 


C3 


c 

3 






s 
















. O 
•li. 


















•Xi!00[3A 




- 




- 


i- 












(MOI • 










c 
o 




P 






2 




]^ 


5 










to 


: 










•junotuy 


:- 


o ' 


o 


in 


35 


o oi 'o o 


o 


m 


\- 


o 


SI 


5 














c = 






.If "2 






b 


" 














•XjiooiaA 




HO) 






OCT <N -(N 


(M 




— OJOJ 


(N 


6 

s 
o 
O 




Ka 






& 


C g '« 


^ 

m'/; 


fe 


.OQ 


L 






: : :m 




3 


•lunouiv '^ '.'° 


o 


= o 


r^ o lo o o 


• in 05 


o 


-< 


■a 

5 




|k3 












; : • ^ : 

: : : ^ : 












•/(]iDO[aA 




l(?l -H OJ rH 


. -H 


h i 


:_,(7i ^ (jioi ; 




jSTr-IIT* 


o 
O 




:ci. 


fc 


i: 


/ 


5 


H 


i. 


1 


: :w K 


•a : 




:& 


■ a 
z 


OQ 


■junouiv 


05 


^co 


n 


jcnoj r-ioiloj ooooto 


'■ 35 


'5 




in;? 
•<r c; 




- a. : 


10.50 a. m. 

7.10 a. in.. 
12. 15 p. m. 
1.45 p. in.. 
4.15 p. 111.. 

5.20 p. in.. 

6.15 p. in.. 
6.5 p. in. .. 
8.40 p. m.. 
10 a. in.... 
12.30 p. Ml. 
1.30 p. in.. 
3 p. in. ... 
8.30 p. ni.. 
3.30 p. m.. 

4.40 p. ra.. 


g* 

B. : 
in 


= -a 

J. CO m 
5 ai oo 


i 

C -2 

.11 
Eh 


lO = TT " 
O -3" -1 1 


1 .45 p. m.. 
6.45 p. ni.. 
10. .30 a. in. 

6.15 a. m.. 
9.20 a. in.. 
1 . 3d p ni . . 
2.5 p. m. .. 

5.10 p. m., 

5.35 p. m.. 
11.45 a. in. 
7.50 p. 111.. 
8.30 a. in.. 
12.10 p. ni. 
1.15 p. ni.. 
2.30 p. ni.. 

5 p. m 

12.35 p. m. 

4.30 p. in.. 


3.30 p. m.. 
6.45 p. m.. 

12.30 p. m. 

7.50 p.m.. 






a 
Q 




j) 





< 


c 


3 


'J' 


U 


9 


U3 


^ 


3 


a 


« 


c 




'^ 


c 


^ 


p 


3 



238 



METEOROLOGY. 



c 

« 

1. 

■a 
c 




•aoJoj 






5? (N CM 




cj r '-H 


"^ : 




■uoijoajiQ 






W .... 

E.NE. 




i \ \i 


^ i 






•30JOJ 


















•uoijoaiiQ 


















-< 


•30J0J 














! i i " 




•uoiJoajiQ 












: il 


: ; : .S • 

• : ■ Hs 
. : ; : ^ u> 




-3 
3 
O 

O 


•k ■ 


•o 

5 












is 








•XjpoiSA 


















3 
O 
O 
















; ; or 




■jurioravT 


Cl o 


<D --I 00 


o 


r- 


o <= = 


t~ ri o 00 






ax 


c 

s 








: : x:^ > : 
: • ws-i : 






Middle.. 

Hiffli .... 
Middle.. 


•XjiooiaA 


- 


rH i Ol 171 pH CT UJ 


- 


<N 


N iiotoiotoiai .-t oi 171 


t 

3 
O 

O 




b 


s.sw.... 

and E... 

E.NE... 
E 

S .. .. 


W 


•Jl 


j : : 

5 :a 
5 ojorjii 


E 

E 

SE 

S.SE.... 


» 


•jiinouiy 






o 


c 


t- o o 


.__ 




o o 

1—* .-H 


o o l^ 


00 t- o o 


< 


•a 
s 








Mist . . 
Middle 




t 
c 
fc. 


D • • & 

• -"^ 


Fog.... 
Middle 

Middle 
Middle 


•XjiDOiaA 


rt c» 


(H OI<N ^(N 


^^ 




<NC? 


C? (N (N Si" •5 OJ 


5 
o 


E.SE.... 

SW.. ,. 


NE.&SE 

NE 

and E.SE 

W.E .... 
E 


.'Jl 

H'2 
Z 5 






g 


E 

N. 

NE 

airunusua 

SE 


•limouiy 


o) r? 


O O CO 


= 


o 


o in o 


o C^ — o 




a) ° 








' 


11.30 a, in. 

R . 30 p. m . . 
12 p. m.... 




8 a m 

7.15 p. m.. 
5 p. ni . . . . . 




1 .55 p. m 
3 p. m. .. 

3 45 p. in 
9.30 p. in 
9 a. ni... 
1.30i). m 

4 p. m. . . 
5.30 p in 

11 a. m.. 

1.50 p. m 
4 p. m. .. 

2.40 n. m 




6.15a. ra 




12 20 p.m. 
1.5 p. m. .. 
2.1U p. in.. 
1 . 55 p. HI . . 
8 . 45 p m . . 
7 . 30 a in . . 
9.15a. m.. 
2.. -JO p.m.. 
4.30 p. m.. 

7.30 a. m.. 

12.15 p.m. 
3.5 p. m.. . 

2.30 p. in.. 


9.15a.m.. 

11.45 a.m. 
10 p in.... 


a 

o 


s : s s 

B g do 
o . I.-: lO 

5C iO C-: ui 




4.30 a. m.. 










) 




to t^ 30 




"^ 


o 

C4 


(M (N (M 


s 







METEOROLOGY. 



239 







: -^ : 










^ i 




















: 


























jcT j 1 








ia i 1 i i ; 

; X ; 2 ; ; ; 






0)05 1 .» TJ. j 


3' 




Hifih . . . 
Low 






re w 5?(M -H I (M : 








a : • ; 

XI . H : 






o= 00 = 1 






rirr... 

Ciir . . . 
Middle 






nn r-.or-.(s J 1 






. : '-j: '• '■ '. : 
: : •=»>■; : 

M 92 CC (K > a ; ; 






.^ t* r.. 00 • 


?I 


o 


CO . . .— ■ ^ ^ 

t-^ '. '■ ic" CI to ; 






=5 : : s =• °- : 

o . . . o o 






00 05 


■o 


CO 


1 


s 





240 



METEOROLOGY. 







s 

c 
Pi 




Th under at •I/l.SO p. m. 
Thunder at 9 p. m. 

Thunder at 6 p. m. 
Thunder at 8/i..45 p. m. 








1 

"3 
>. 


5 


05 




i 


in 


1 cc 




-let Hot H« '^Ist 


CO 
3C 


■i 




-1 




P 
















•JIB uado UI jo^otuoiujam se oiubs 9i\x 


















e 

o. 
o 
a 

s 

o 




naocot~r^ot~i^ooi-~5)ront^oot~ocoiraoonnoe^TOMnt~c~o 


s 






OSOiC5CTSr^05i^010XOSit^>r3r-OCOOCDCDOa^f^050a005Q00505a> 

oiomminioiominirausmoioinoiotomiotoioinmto'oioirtoioin 


QC 


? 


05 


gSSS^'5SRSl!?5S;gSSKS:85SSSR§SgSS:gSSS 


I- 


■■c 










ci 








J 

g 


2 

Hi 


■o 

O 

C 
c 
5 




SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSfiiBSSSSSSiSSSSSSS 






















X 


en 


iisiiiiiiiiliillilliliiiiiisiii 


c 


g 


o 


s ss ss?5s;g;ss ss5 ss 


2^ 


s\ 




972 
954 
992 
940 
928 
936 
940 
968 
994 
004 
996 
998 
988 
91)0 
942 
966 
002 
002 
908 

9eo 

984 
984 
990 
038 
052 
016 
008 
012 
010 
022 
962 




cr 




c 
c 


C> 


J 


■i 


976 

948 
952 
952 
930 
924 
948 
968 
986 
004 
986 
022 
002 
000 
956 
968 
008 
9e6 
952 
972 
992 
980 
984 
020 
046 
022 
024 
0£2 
022 
041 
995 


1 




<N a (^ a o e^ ai a Qf Qi at oi oct 




c* 






a 

= 1 
Q 




is 

S 

<; 


c 


P 
^ 





METEOSOLOGY. 



241 















































• (N W 


• (M (N 


. -(M 


OJ 




S 
cl 


'3DJ0J 
























: ; : 








: : : 








^_, 


ca 


•uoijoajid 




CD 


ii i 


Z 




i ^ 


\ii 


i^' ^' 


: \i 


^" 


73 












































C 






























tS 




•3DJ0J 






'. '. : 
















■ -co 




T3 


S 
























































































^ 
































•uopaajja 






















• -H 


3 ■ 


"O 






1 : : 




















• :^ 


C 




























^ 


•< 


•OOJOJ 










ei 








































t~ 


•uoiiaaJia 


• w 








i 




















: ^ : 
























•a 






























c 


























































E 


t< 


























■/(waw.aA 


i °* : 
















: :- ! 




; ; 






















; 




OS 


S2 

3 
O 


: : 






















: 






O 


: ^ ': 


















JOQ 




•junoiuv 


in o '^n Oi o o 


CO ^O O O O CO CO O O (?} 


in 










~A_ 








m 




























































Ui 


i * ■ 


:~^ : 




w 




-S_ :_. 


_^ 




;is 


_;L. 




-k. -tt. -loi 


-to -K. N-l» 




rn 




-.^liaopA 


(N (M(N CJI^rf— 1 5l--( 


rH CO CO O) :m 5j C! c^ -1 CI 5< 5< -1 Si 


(M(n 


■o 


g 










3 












6 






It' I z 


: : : : :ia : : 

tn • . 












^ 


: H 




:ia^ rata 


Ksq -cq • 02 . ; 


A 


i 'b^ 


:h 






o 


• 2 


• ol a '^ "2 in-n 


CQtC -w^-Hia • 


xta • •'^^a 


. "3 

mU 






^ 


a HW W/JMtd HK 


mmmm-fiammam mm^'i^ 


•liinouiv 


SJ o 


. locc oi r- o 


•V in lo oo in f~ o imot-o 


o 






•3 












\ i 












































w 


a : 




: : = 






o 1 






o : : 

u : : 










-k. -=. 


• 












•XiiooiaA 


rH ^ 


OtOJ (N — 5l 


n T-i5i - 


; .-1 <JJ CM ■ 


•(H 






s 


































6 














r I : 














t 

3 
O 

O 


> CO 


HC 


: : KJj 


i 


W 


■~>'ta 


.2 • • 


ca 


a ■ 


•M 








mm m hot 


03 >t» jg ; m z m . 


■ m 


•lanoiuv 


<M n 


o o r- <D to 


osi-tt^»-<i-ioio incor^o 


oo 






o ti 


s" : : E 


s • 


^ N^ : 


= ES 










£ c : • 


'. S 








§1 




a. c ■ c • £ 


:. CO. 
5 o m 










c: a ; ; 


; C 








-^ « 


« -"I" — C-5Q0 -T 


■5 ea in — ' •£■ 












-TCO . . 


.C! 










r o c^ CO -c 


>J lO t^ 










CO O ; ; 


;(?» 




























pH 


E 


E 5 


c in ^ o lO ;<: 


= E s . :£ 
- M ^ a -c 


= S S 
i.d.d. 
52S 










CB 3 ■ • 

in ~ ; : 

r^ a. • • 


is 
• & 








J2 


— r^ -• fM as ;•< 


r T« (N "^ • — lo CO 










CO lO ; ; 


:-- 










^ c» P5 TT »o CO r- 


000)0 — (^)^5rr mtOt^TO 


05 




























Q 




" a 












QU 

























16 s 



242 



METEOROLOGY. 









m 


^ 




^ 






•^ CI3J 














■aojoj 
























E 
b 














































^-, 




•UopDOJlQ 


^ 


> 




> 




& fe^ 










t3 














































C 




























1 






■ODJO,! 




























•= 


s 


























































i 


1^ 






























at 


•uoiiasJiQ 




























■a 
































c 
































i? 




































•aojoj 


























































!^ 


•U0I108J!C[ 
































-3 
























. 






c 
































M 




























•XipoiaA 
















CI 












































































































b4 
3 

O 

O 
















H 












lunouiy 


CO 


3 


o 


m ooo r^ ■5>'4O305 


00 





















to 






































































W 




^ 


.;!. 


IS 


^ • 


















•Xiioo|3A 




C<3 WOJC 


■■! --1 CNOlr^ (H tN(N(Mrt 








13 
3 
O 


^5 






















>. 






il 


















o 


CI 


a) 

3 
° 


S 




. 


/J : 

4 : 








•K 


a 
















i -^- 


u. 


02 


CS M 05 M W !» 00 CC -72 a 








•junoiiiy 


o 








= 


cno 05 








3> 


05 


C3 t~ 








~*-~ 






~^— 


■— ^ 


CJ 


03 




■3 
























































i< 


HS 




a 


E k5S 




E 




Eg 








•Apoi9A 


^Cl 




- 


-1 -H OJI-l 


d Cl 




:-H 










a 




















































■<! 






























t~ 












^ : 

CO • 




















3 










a 




: 












O 


^«; 




^ 


^ ^^§ 


02 l> 




«« 
S«2 








•lunouiv 


>o 


- 


(N 


00 in r- 


CO « CO 


00 


to 




















UO 
















































o == 

si 


C C • 3 

o. dg ti 




c 


-i^. 
-^i^ 


S "Sf : 

c^-d2 : 


SSS: 

D. d dg 












0*0.10 




o 


lo So g : 














H« 


rf ^ arf 








- CO ^ (i 








13 

■3 




— cjiraoo 




-' 


TT CO lO 


a> '"^■■33 : 


Ol C* CO I- 






























PS 




C.2 






E 




S is 

^ dg n. 




S : : S 


































hS' 


• T tT — • 










". D. d'f' 














-1 -H Tl<t~- 






CO r-l-J- 


00 -.-hO . 


00 rH CO 
















_, 


(M 


















T* 




(N CT CM CT ill Ol CI .-O 










2 




f^ 
















a 




3 ^ 










^ 1 








x 






















H 


fe; 


1 



METEOROLOGY. 











e|| «: E .^- EE 
































s.— "^ "O c.^^ i.!^ 
















— %s H *•" « «r ir. — 
























X 














je 






5-?^'^ 5 :g 5 ^« 










c; 






„Ci;o 3 ' s t; 










z 






« == ^ - '' a '-^ "S ;- 










Ci 






>-^''« - ^s ^" 








K 






i) ,, _ ••■ c c = 

llii 1 11 It 






























E^E- H He- H- 
















SSS?SS?ggSS§?S?gl8SS§SSSK5g!8g!SSi's§S 





„ 


1 








P4 




CC 


in 








, 


39 




r- 


m 




































-k. 


'^ 1 








3 


s 


003— "-^c^— 'Oi^ — oc^^— 'r:— 'r:c>cco — — t — 005:30000^ 




Ol 


00 






^ 




too»«3U5U5toint3tcic;oK;'--:-,cto;cottioa5t=;.5tcu-;u':S»«=<o 




1 


^S 








(L, 























1 m 






^ 


Si 










s 


-.|« Hot -(» H« -loi 


-.) 




s 






.-in<i>cct~tct~cO'*ta-*0'2maTrrr«:.ijr-i~c;r-int^-3--<j.coior- 




c 










mu^io.raoirtin'ni-Tinioin'O'ni.-ii.Tuioiooinirainiorticouiuiu; 


ir 






o 






■< 




-X 




















J 1 


B 
O 






^ 








A 














1 


u 






% 










>. 
















£ 






en 








1 










} 






















.2 


S 


•aiK uado ui iaiamoiujaqj st auius aqx 












>> 


Cl 














C 




















j 

1 


• 






t~ 


















a 


ot~ t-r-coor;oron«j^ 00 r-i>t~OTOt~mi^or-oc rootles 


-» 


X 




00 t-' =J =' 3J oi 3> =' -h' CI X -^ — ' r-' 05 31 =' ci oj — ci OJ 00 O! — * 


c^ 


— 


c 






S 


ootDO«tooo!Ott!to>rtu5.'.iaa5Xi04r5iOvouiu:»tf:.oi«>ooo 


IT 


iT 




















^ 


ox!cnot~ot-r~t~C5irtr;c;t^c=jt^i~t~ccto35toocQO«-a'«sao> 




C 












i,~ icrt in i.": "O i.-; <n U-. L- « ifi u- ic ira i.^ in in « US 10 m « m 


C^ 


f; 










OJ 






















S 


01 — ■xiffit~30<N'*«r~(D3Mn— 'aoxc:t~cQ(S!c>o«r-o!jj'«"fl't^w 


a 


U 


X) 










cca5o'3<otc--co<3tca3ts<oaj»«!t-.nto<o»«5-jsu5co«3«:tt>cs«3 


C" 




fSi 


C 
C 






C! 






X 


' 








j 










E 


t~t=t>-i^f~c=0!-ox)ccot~;ctcaoa)oot--a3S303in39 = 3)a5f-t^r505 




t- 










■< 


m m m in m in to m in m m m m m iQ >.- j mm tc in m in 




r; 










S 


in(»C3 0>C2-i33Xi03 — aotoocfto— 1.— 0C05 0JO — oooomr-ooCT-i 
inoininin«3ininmtDinmcointoocoininm«>«5to!cinoininto» 






1 






c; 


C5 
























Q 


E 


rD — -rino.n^^fMCOTin-rT ^to•wom'rln':r^:^^=>-J:^c-5ln-s. 












s 




tc;c;ooO!i.!Coa;-^ — ;£K:<o«>0!D-otctocotDto»tooo«5toa5 














r» 
























H 


S 


toa5r-c5oi~-coooi~QOoo30oo3>05t~tocna)sixiooot-oji>to-:».oo = 








^ 




■i 


m.-sioinasininininminininininininmininininininininioininw 








V 














' 


c 








ooxioQOTS.cioorrrMcocsastooosrro'rioooiN-^'Otcr^oo'S'toira 


cc 


X 










S 


roi-a(<ioo=iX=;-.c7o;inr~oooo:aint~tooDi-f-toin=5toa3t~t~r~ 


^ 


J^ 


1 


c 






iC 


05 s> a; en ci =i <= ci cj 05 os C3 ro 01 35 c: en =) =5 3: ct ^. ra C5 OJ 




o- 


1 


ri "'Trc^'Tr-T-<rrc 


cr 




R 









Ol (N 01 01 CIO) C< 















V 


CTOi-.= -r^oi;inoo(N-«'(M-*ooa)(ji'«'c:GO(N(Ma)TrtDoo>«!->).to 


c 




1^ 










■<r'T!~f-3:.-ccJ0Ji^— icinrsr^i^OiTrTtc-ri-tij^^CTmcointr 


(7 


s 


CO 






*5d 




5>053;cnor-.=iiD3=oocn35cnea<r.mc»C!05ci3ioic>o>c»03Soi=5 


oc 


0; 


r-'^. 






X" 


ci^ 


n ■«<Trro ' 


X 


0- 


n 






K 


(N 


C< <MC^O< 




c^ 


°* 1 










sos-jfTlocooiraosocpooo-roococr-iTinoir^-a'ajooaxn 


o- 


k 


I 








S 


SSSS§S£2^.^.5g>;SSg;g5ge^t_g-^3!g§-ggg 


^ 


i ^ 










■i 


CO TTf^ TT^ 


X 


c*: 


1 










<n CI C-) c) (M ci 




ai 


J 




a: 






-j.:^:^i.-.v:r-xc> = -CT2Z:a2^2S2SS;3i5SSSS§?is 










*- 


.5 




t-^ 










c 


c 




S^ 










S*i 


= 




!» 


i 


S 





244 



METEOROLOGY. 



■a 
i5 

1 

■5 




•SOJOJ 


O! ^ (M CJ 


O) (N'-H 








:"^ 


• '(M 




; CT CT 




■uopoajia 


^^" ^^ ^ ^^ 






''■^ 






^ ^ 




CI 


•aojo^j 


































•uoijaaJia 


































-< 


•aojo^ 


































uoiiDaJia 


































3 
o 

5 




c5 

3 
o 


































•-'{JI00I3A 




■(N (NrH 


















d 








3 

o 
O 




: : H 

02 oQcr 


J 


















CQ 








•junouiv 


COCO in OD CO or- o c^scoo*^ oo co 05 co m w ,o 




•a 

c 


• 




60 


















i 








•AifaopA 


OKN ^ 


^ C?!?! (N ^ <N (N 3?(M -1 r-. ri OJ -^ C? CT 


(N -<-t 


3 
O 

O 


Ha m 


pi 


cc 


•a 03 CC 


fc 


M 




z 


OC 


0202 Z C3 CO 






cc 




•junoiuy 


00 r- 05 05 oi r- 1^ oi i>-coaooo r-t^ o; t- o 05 o 




n 

3 




• ii ■ 

to-o . 




•3 

tTTJ , 

5i : 










t 10 and 
11 a.m. 

and 11 
a.m. 










•jCipoiaA 


^^5f jrt (M rtOI ^©»(N 1 




C8 . . 

=« : : i : 


CT(?l(Tl rH 


6 
SS 

3 
O 

O 


: ; ;a : : 

EC • :.£h 

H O) M m H CO 


Stat'n'ry 

S 

S.&Si3... 

S 


E£ 


li 
CO 






z 


: ■- S'g : 
■ : ga 


tn 


•<'/3 


: 
00 




••limoiuv 


OC3Tt~ en mo 0<N0 5!00-H --i (M3>COO 


a 
'<3 

OS 


■3 

C 

■— to 

°.s 

c 




6.10p. m.. 

12! 15 p.' m. 
4.30 p. in.. 
7.30 p. ni.. 
1.15 p. in.. 
3.40 p. m.. 



7.50 a. in.. 
12.40 p. in 
4.5 p. 111. . . 
7. 15 p. ID. . 
3.40 p. m.. 

4 p. m 






7.10 p. m.. 

2 p. in 

6.15 p. in.. 

5.10 p. in.. 

9.30 p.m.. 
3.25 p. III. . 

5.10 p.m.. 

3 D. m 


£ E 
do. 
mm 

coco 


Time of be- 
ginning. 




5.45 p. in.. 

11.55 a. m. 
3.10 p. in.. 

12.20 p. m. 
3 p. in 


7.35 a. in.. 
9.15a. m.. 
3.15 p. in.. 

6 p. Ill 

2,30 p. in.. 

3.25 p. m... 






5.5 p. m. .. 
1.10p.m.. 
5.30 p. m.. 

4 50 p. m . . 

6.30 p. m.. 
3.15 p. 111.. 

4.30 p. ra.. 

11.15a.m. 
3.30 p.m.. 
1.30 p. m.. 




S 
Q 




"1 


01 n-v 




m 


CO 


i- 


30 




c» 





- 


« 


wv in 


CO 


t- 


oc 


o> 





METEOROLOGY. 



245 



CO -^ CO 00 o oi r* 



oFi-H 0«-H 



e* ot -^ oi a oi a o^ oi 









O ;0 O O) O) iOOi 






.(3 



o o ^ -^ CO o CO CO coco O CN 



EScS- = 



sa 



• • • .^ (>(*•• 

c.cLrtc "cci-Q."" a.D.M 
»o o if> o . »o ut ir; lO r: ^j o o o 

O . • • ° « • • ■ (T) CI - ■ • 

i-ic^oocoo) — (N'^in— ' — {~0)^ 



rr TT lo «o r^ 00 



— .U3 

■<r — oj 



Si o (^^ n <M (^^ (M (?» c^co 



246 



METEOROLOGY. 



'^ 



1 

a 

B 




10 e 

..;< ^ - 

Cos d. ^• 
TT a • i- 55 

■||( 1 1 








B 

S 
o 

a!, 


1 






2 


"^ 





in 






a 


to 


fiSSSfiSKlSSS?si"sSSS5SSS§SSSS5SSg3§ 


.a 
3 
-M 




05 










s 


•JIB iiado UI Jdjoiuouiiaqj stj auius oqi 




s 

■i 








' 


■3 

S 
c 


a 

a 

a 





i>r-c^b-c^r-r^f^cot^r33i^t-t-r-i>oi^ocscoi--r^t-oi^i-ooco 








0: 


fiSSKSSigSgSSSSSSS.'SSgSgS'SigSlSSSgSS 


t- 


00 


2 

10 








00 

to 




ggSS§§gSSgSS§S5gS5§SSSSSg5SS£;g§SS 


5 
t^ 


1 t^ 

10 




s 



« 


1 

3 

S 

s: 

Eh 




§SSSK§3S§S£?SSi§SgSK§gKKSgS§S§SSS 




> 


h 
CT 


SSggSggSSSSSSgSSSSSSSSSSSiSSSSS 








lOioioininmiramwinLTioioioi.io.^ioioiOinioioioiOin'jsi.'sioinio 






To 


S 

05 


972 
954 
978 
973 
992 
016 
012 
015 
022 
988 
944 
945 
934 
922 
943 
972 
968 
930 
946 
951 
956 
962 
976 
940 
938 
9,59 
980 
000 
986 
956 
952 


a 


CO 

03 


10 


n -rp y^ ':r 'r 0^ '^ n 

O) ct CI ai 01 oi (N (N 





c^ 
(W 






-T 


do 


(M OJtM 




s 


CI 


a 


COO^:Ot^OOwCTr^tnCOCOOI — ■.T10C7CJ•T■^.O^^^^^^C*^^OXJCOfOvp 


jr 


03 


n TT W TT Tf « 

CI <?! OJ C! (M CT 


2 


CI 




.c . 
CO a 

n 




1 


e 
C 


c 

(S 
S) 





METEOROLOGY. 



247 



•tlOIlDaJIQ 



^^ 



CI • • at <ii o) . ffi CI (M O) 



.^ ^ ^ 



^^ ^ ^ 



^ ^ 



•SOJOJ 



•aojoj 



•jftiDOiaA 



02 to 73 



oin o-Hoor-j-jToos o 



•XII00I3A "^ 



a:ss,3 






Cl (MCiCI O CNOTCJOl— •O— '01— ■0}r-(S^— ICI-I-H— I 



^t a 



Ha 



^'£..- 



K w^'M tn 'BoQtyx&'aifesa'KoalZZiBajlzSsaj 



-< O) C! <N 



Z 
H m W -12 



t^oor^xit'oooo o too OO Ot^O 3S 



•.(J!D013_\ 



Ol CI <N O — 



-HO CJ — I CI CI -H 



i 1 2 I § 
OJSJ 53 



^ CI — I -< — 






^ ^^ ^• 






■junoiny 



i-HOiOmOdCO 00 TT'S' ^ CO T)- XI rr 



S H S 



CI — trt vO 73 lO ^ 

od -H -H ^ CO ci -H 



s s - = c 2 : ; 

(N0« — TOW":"!-! oi 



E.S 



s s 



s s 



- s :a 



Cl CI 

ci cc 



cor^ooos o^ocorr>f::o'^ x as 






^ > 



248 



METEOROLOGY. 















|rt « : • <^ 














•30J0J 


















^ 




















(C 






















05 


•U0IlD3J!a 


















,^ 












:^ ^ : : & 














































a 






















<a 




•aoioj 


















■a 


s 






























































h 




















(M 


•noijaaJta 


















•a 






















c 












































U 




•83JOJ 










: : o* 




























r- 


•uoijoa-iia 










' M ^ 












i 












































c 






















5 


















•jtipopA 


c^ t?< 


d • 


1 r-l : (M 








S 
























: : : 










fl5 




















OJ 


9 










' I • I 












o 


• a 






• • H • 












O 


Z ^i 


OS • 


1 2 : !» 






■junotuy 


OJOO O00--l(JJ 10(NO0- 


r; 


to 












CO 






-^ 


• ,^ . ; 


- ' — ■■" ; ■"" 














'..a J. 3 


'^ 3 ^ Tc~3 ' 'cc'3 












'^ 
















i'ffiS .^ 


ii3 = 3 :Ss 










-Ic-te -10. H-. - 








m 




•XjpoiaA 


(NCTCO ^(r<C)'HCNO<-H--iC)5<{MC 








73 


S 












3 
O 


cC 






















o 


<N 


3 
O 

O 


: : : : 

•■a Si 




■*i : 




!a 












g:t?;Z ^SH'/J'/iajy^ZMOiMa: 






•junomy 


-ij- to - oo c- 




o 




CTJ 


o o to 00 lO 








~*— 


^ 


(^ 




ts 






















; sD'o 




to 


". '5d ; 
































til 


:ir^ 




is 


: 3 : 








•XjiooiaA 


noin n 


at 


Oi a 1 01 










-< 






















































t^ 


3 
O 






m \ 


2 si I M 








•junouiv 


rt rt to rt (N oi oj t~ o r~ 


'^ 


_, 












■a* 








i s is s 


i '. 










'5 






. ^ •* .o « 


n '• 


























M 




.5 


; 1 iH i 


£ ; 














» a 


o. • 














S.2 


: § o.n =^ : 


lo : 














E^l" 


. lO T lO 


n ■ 














• (?) • • 


















. — m-j. CO • 


ai '■ 
















^- <?i CO 'S* ift to i^ oo o o 














.(N (N <M (NOJ oi o« o» (N ra 












£ 


r^ 














2 > 

o 




C 
C3 








a 












H 


S 


1 



METEOROLOGY. 



249 









„•<■■,• o- ^ 2 s ^. s 
























. 












,tf 




= -■=-; -s r ^ ■=• ~<^T= 














^ « C3 C<N ^ — -e . CO E-e = 














"s^'3- S = = S t^ S S^s 










3 






























iii e=^ 5 Ss 2 1=1 














E-E^H t.H E- E- H H^^ 






1 






S 


irtt~i-tci.-;t-in?3ir50i«CT?}ior-iot~x<r»ccJco — oocou- ?''— o o 


L ^ , 1 








L-: u^ o u^ .r: m m « m o o o o o u- o u^ in in ir; lo .c lO -rt iT. u- o o U-: o 










(C 




■i -^ i 1 
















J3 


OS 






1 


1 
















Mia —tat Hot -*!« — |a -<|oi 














^^J. 01 = 1.=; — 35— 3-. 3)3>35=0— ■0!NiOtt>— OCIC35 — tOOiiOOO 




•* 1 X 




.s 




;c;oo;oiom«5tcioca<oirwinmootooi(ooir:iratoi.-;ooinioiom 


<» ' ~ 


I. • 1 






IL, 




t- Ol r lO i 




a; 






-" 1 m 1 i-T 1 




^ 


o 






1 








-l« -[» -!« 




1 








S 


ecir;t^:occin-'rinin>r:c5"^'rco«DUDincD«D^ — octro-r'^'osoinco 


m 1 t~ 1 


V 






oinoiou-ju^oiomirs-riraioininioioijSioinioininoin'^in-^'-'; 




' „ 




M 




^ 




<= 


I CO I 


V 










s 

o 




r- 




2 1 


1 






S 


'^ — V 






: 


g" 




c 








; 1 


a< 


^ 


<J> 








• i 














3 
2 


s 


•iiB usdo Ul jaisuiooijaq) se auiBs aqx 






1 




>. 


Pi 








1 




a 












-< 








1 






t^ 










' ' 






i 


Qot^ot^t~co?5i~inooocosr~t^ocoi^or-f-t^nt^'--t~i~oor3 


i ^ 


c>- 




C5GOOociCjaixoic:rr, oor-^cDC5a030C5aot-^«rcoadQCQOr-cDr--^f^ 


■ 9 


1 "- 


1. 
C 




s 


iomotDioiooiourjtoininiooioioioinioininoininininininifiin 


i 


1 "^ 1 










c 


, 


s 


(Dt^00l--COI^tO'^t^f^-^m«tO30;Dl^O5Tt*OJffCTJiC0oi:DtD''3'(N«l^ 


tc 


1 "" 










lOtnmi.oSioSinioioooioiooinioiraininininiOiO'oininininio 




I iT 








b 




^ 


ir 




c 

c 




en 




" 




C0_ 


S 


r~<N-^CX)m'«J*CD'^COiCiO'^— 'O'TOfMCJTttOCJCTl^CTI'OJMCOOO 




1 '^ 


c 




(C 


tOIS«3S!o5StoS»<0«>«S«00«5tba3«»35«>OtOOa3»tD«5 


r- 


1 ^ 


rx 


c 








cc 


o 


c 




in 




3- 




1 
























b' 




S 


K!t-cDr~oct~toooioaoo;ot~-a-t^oDtoaotom>n->j-inincciranr30>i5 


X 


o 






■< 


miOioiooi.'iiOinmiotO'OiOiooinioinoininioiniominioo^in 


%c 


1 "" 










- 










r~ 




_ 








•^ 


e 


ooo — asxiooir-03aooi^cc30ot*0500iccco»^ooaOTcr^mir;r5 






! 






a 


SiSotfs^ioiniotoOi/ioSiotDiOioioirtioioootoininoir. mo 










2 














cs 
















^ 


irroTS^-a-^-sr'r-fl'Oirin— ■oiO)0)«oi«Tf(ri?5«oi-9'in(T)r; — o 










2 


a^ 


«5«S:o5tOs5-=KJO<0»!COOCOOC5!OCCtCCO«>»»;OCDtO;Oti 






1 




S 

o 

g 


Ol 








1 










1 




S 


ooifiiioiaii^!Dt~t~ooootx)t^a5cnoo<or~5jin'a''a'oinr^co'fo'o-i; 










V 




lomiraioinioioioioioinoioininioininiou-sioiniooiniooininm 










Xi 


•< 










» 


H 


r~ 






















= 






C=a:30-?'TO!WGCX)000'»-COtSOOOQCOCO:^00<N-S>0<rtaOOXICOTOO 


o 


i^ 








S. 


■5-r;:^i.-:r:cJ = oir:Tr = i-(-jif~..-^-TTrcowXif;toCD»(Xi^r5T:i- 








£ 






en en Ol Oi 35 C> 3J OO m ai Oi X 00 31 03 Ol 3i 3! i,-5 = Ol 3i OJ =J o> 0> 31 31 Ol 35 


Tf. 


3" 


1 


C3 




C 


CO *'"'*'" " ^co 


cc 


CO 




a 




S) 


(JJ 0)OJ 




O) 






0'MXOOtOV(?JXC)030trTr-«*035^'^tCCOQOO(7!COXXlC^X 


35 


to 








TTOJ- .Ti~ = 3;C0 — i-t^OjC^'S- — MX — =;iO:Oi~ l^i^u^-a-^ir: 


35 


c^ 






•r" 


c 


0-. 31 05 O: 31 Ol 31 3: X 05 35_ oa X X 35 C: 35 35 3: = =3 05_ 05 31 C5_ Ol C» Ol 05_ 3^ 


O 




i""^ 


n •«•' -"T CO 


at 


CO 


1 CO 




B 


(M 


c* atoiOi 




(N 


Ol 








TJ-X = 'r35:300-T01tOXX^-,C^«3C5C!C)'^XO'n-tOXCOtOOOO 


Ol 


Ol 


i 








lOtOC'JCOuoS = iO — 35 1^05rjiOCO-TC~iO>TTU^i-t^rrCO — lO 












■i 


en Ol 31 31 31 =5 35 Ol 35 35 05 X 00 X Ol 05 Ol 35 05_ O 05 3-. 05_ Ol 35 05 05_ 31 Ol Ol 


— < 


31 


> \ 


CO -vn ' ' 


a 


CJ 






t~ 


Ol otai 




!M 




o 




t-i(Nr:-«>in!SC~xo)o — cjeo'>j'if5 0t~x3i3-.cm'j'ictoc--xoio 






i 








r-iri-^i-ir-li-ir1>-i.-.r-l0<O«<r<(NO<O)<NCl<Jl(M« 














r- 
















n 












X 




a 




















^ -• 




> 

c 


B 


2 






^^ 




a 









250 



METEOROLOGY. 



-d 
e 

■a 

i 


en 


■80JOJ 


ct 


-' 




?:) 


CJ 








t— * 




CI 








- 


CI 




CI C! 


- 


Old 


- 


-t3 

CI 






C<! 




•UOIIOSJIQ 


^'^ 


E£I 


H 






'^ 


^ 






^ ^ 


^ 




QQ 


&^'^ 




^ 






•aojoj 














































•UOfJOMIQ 
















































■SOJCjJ 














































noiiDajiQ 














































T3 
O 

O 




■a 

c 














































■ijiooiaA. 














































3 
O 














































•junoiiiy 


■^oojiQ oo o o o -^^ oi 7^ o ^:io-^'-^o(r5 — -H o 












a 


J 


s 




S 




J 








si) 

=2 
















s 




XltD0[3A. 


O) C-! S'f-i <M 5?Drc?(M 


CI (M (M (M CI —1 CI CI —1 CI CI d CI CI O CJ CI CI 


3 
o 
O 


& 

y 


t 
y 


El 


2 




1^ 

2 


X 




!k 


2 


K 


S 


K : 
I w H or 


,_, 


V 


030 


or 


^ 


a 

CO 2 


02 c 2 




•junouiy 


Ot^OSOS O TT r- O 00 o o o o 


0»0 0035000 = 00 O 


■i 


"5 


o 




















: S a 


hS 








:b 








•5S S 




■Xl!Oo(SA 






d-H 




1 CI d d oT 


aj 

3 
C 

o 




:& 


5V 


3Ec 

J"/ 


5 


ry 


^ 


: H 
: ^. & 
: H 2 


& 




^ 


- or 




' 


sr 


■^ 






:2 


§ 


2 


fS 
25 


•juno'jiv 


OO«00 35— 1 rt T!< — 1 00 O [^ rr O -( — 1 t~ rM (N r~ (» OO 


'a 


O til 


o 

C-5 






' o 


la s s 

• d P.O. 

^ CI -^ 

• rj C! C^ 


■ — CI CI • TT CI CI 

.^ cc — ' ci ■- CI t-^ CI 








r- 


J 

;C 






; c 


i. 


t^ ti) 
C = 

s.s 


E 

ci 






a 
o 


s as 

d di. 

; CI — -^ 
• CO C) (N 


• 03 -< - 


—CO lO LC o 

^ lO • — .o — < 

■^ . o ■ • • 

CI " — «5 CI 








5 




: £ 

; c 

c 






a 

S 

c 




is 


HO 

3 


)C 


3 1 




sa 




c- 


X 


> 


J 




C 


* ■" 


CI 


<r 


J 


■^ 


•" 


CT 


•" 


a 


3 


c 


c 




§ 


. 



METEOROLOGY. 



251 





" -<?i ?i 






:" 














i is 


: ^ 








i^ 


























































ID 1 


















^ : 
z : 






























d^ 


0) JO 












HZ 




2 


a 
z 
z 










o 


'TUl O103S OO ^ 


- 


35 




i| 










aSr 


s 






s« 


IJ»C« (StNCT (N — TOlNOl 








a • 
z • 


a : 


a' 

K 

z z 


^•^^ 


O! 






= xo oor-o -^iX) 00 


05 


oo' 








3 : 




a 3 


-■ 






— eiSr 1 


-.tat 


(N rH(M 






'^. az 




<: 


z 




^ & 


z 






— <a-4> -IIMOO OOO t^ 




o 


s's is is 

dd • dd d 
oo :u5 To : 

• - -CI . . 
0) •<r • — (M ^ • 




5 i3 c 

rt rr in 










s = : S S c ' 




o ^ ~ 
00 ^o 










^ 


etS 


S 


S 




S 


^ S 




1 









252 



METEOROLOGY. 



c-S 



OE-i 



„• 


n" 


j^ 




„• 


„• 
















■* 


XW 


!.' 


T 




' 




>'. 


r 


r 


k^ 


= 


E 




= 


B 


C3 


CS 


o. 


C 


CS 


cd 


— 




,- 


r- 






^ 






T 


■^ 


iD CO 


K 


OJ 


toco 


tc 


a 


J; 




« 


a 


c 


— 


2 


— 


a. a. 


F 


:: 


Jx 


= 




;: 














HH 




OE-iH 









• uoos 3 'Tos : 



■j3-H-<}«?om^t*'i^«— "CO^=>m-X)0:?iiC 



irju^ioou^TTu^iO'^roioiooLootoo'^ino^iou^icioiO'^ic^'^'T 



•JIB uado ui jaiaiuouudi]! su 9iut:s yqj^ 






iC O lO to O ci lO O u"; u"j lQ lO O O »0 "^ iQ iC »r, ir; irj uT ic O UO •■ 
























p. I 



co-o-vo— 'Tt^C'JtD-^coaooci-^osxoo'ysioxi'^oi'^^'^— '^^'^■^ 



cc -r T -T -^ ■v rQ 
c^ :.* f>» :?* 0^ :;'j ^i 



X *- — 7? ^: .r; .o CJ !0 t-^ Ol T r* -rr . g^ — » — o ^ *r tr. .c C Xi -M — o 



c< CM ct ffi :>i OM 



C*3 ' Tj- -rp 'ST X -^ CO 
Oi Ol 'Ti CA Gl Oi Oi 



'^ 71 c: -^r '.': ^ i- X CS c — 



ir:-j:^r-cociO— •TJC'O'^o^r^coci^— * 



-^— ,^„^^^r^„P^G4C^C^G^G^O*<fJC^C^CJ?^:^ 



fr- s 



METEOROLOGY. 



253 



XimaoK 

~72 



• C: 0? !M 35 O iO 
~=- lO >0 -* lO ?1! lO 



l»M iH«>IHHM«IH'^IHnH''|H«lH«'|H<^H 



"lH"|H"|rl"lH«IH"lH 
CM <M ^^ as c<i 



'^Ih^ihh|h®ih"»Ih'"ih 

CO rt CO r-( rt 



■<1' CO (M >* <M irq 



a CO 



"^H 



E ! 



"IH 



s ^ 
-d -^ 



"—I ■'5' CO <— I ■^ CSl -^ 



• ®IH=>IH»|H°|r( in 
*- C>4 CO CO > CO vf3 



«1H 



t- -rjt CM t— C>J O r- 1 



in t- "O 5i5 CO lO 



JClloH* W-JOhIOJO Blow, WcW.Wo'^ 

^HhIH^H" HrllH^H'-IHrtlrt "iHrtHHHHlH 
C050 TfCOlOt~COTPCM 



H2 -"S'^^H^ 

00 t~ CO lO «o t-- 



"lH"lH"iH 
CO 00 









"IH^IH'^H 
CO O I— I 



■^ -"^l CO ^ O CO ■* 



CO 00 



■< CO CM CM CO 



CM ■* 



CM 1-1 Cq 



Cw'i .m, ,!-« ,e), .'ji. ,tC| , 



-c; CO 






„l5),.e)C;C) 'CiHlCl J-) JCl !■:> 



Jo Hl'j) jn jci Hfti.-l':) Jc) , Jc« 



-«; to 



Jf>< _WJc'-lc» Jo 

t--*iom'-iioco-<* 



t— lOffvtCOCMCOT— 1^ 



s lo 



^l2=oS«^2 : «! 



■< CO Ca ^ r^ ^ _| 



„l«J':',J«J«Jf J«-,wjc»J':» 
CM lO ■— I in Tjt ■— c 



•"IH 



"IH 



» o;o loHlc) ID w 

H hIh'^IHMh'^Ih'^H 
CM CO CM CM CM r- 



I r>IH'*lrt''lH"lH 

i-H CM lO ?0 CO CM 



-^ 1— I •^ CO >— I CM 



<0iH 



»!'» I s ^ 









H 



I ^ <i r^ 1^ ►^ 



254 



METEOROLOGY. 





^T3 j; --a j; ^ 


Middle. 
Low. 

Middle. 
Low, 

Middle. 

Low. 

High. 

Middle. 

Low. 

High. 

Middle. 

Low. 


~r 


i3 










1- 


i i"^' i"^ 


'• j-H CJ 


i i i ;-''- i •" 




mo 




CI 






h" : 


• -H -g- o • - Ci 


; ^ _" 1 rH ■<). i CI I- 




00 O OJ 
C! 


8 


e4 

2: 






;- 








• j •<?) 


: 




CO 


IS 




i- 


■ ■—.,-^,-^ • CI OJ 


• C! C! .-1 rH rt • -CI 


: coo,., 
i 1 




2: 
















: : 










^ 

Z 










j j • (U r^ r-, : 






C!-lrt 


^ 


































- ; 


•V 


•- 


'• -xn '■ 


.-■ • -00 —1 -30 






00-. 




<3i 
C) 










: h i 


: : h 








Cl 






C) 


02 






• .- ■ rt C! • • • 


-i-H ^.-,(N r :^ 




'■■'^\ 




o 




- ; i 


rHd '• '•■ 


-Mi: 










• 




o 


CO 




T- -H (N 00 tc — 1 X r-l 'rf ^ 


•^ r- : :° : 




^gco 




o 








to • 


• j^ in -. tc — 1 — ' r- • 


jo 1 jci • -c^ '• 




CI -s^'^ 


^r 






00^ rt t^o jc 


^ C! j 03 ■ 


\i~ I ;(M • jci j 




C3 


00 


6q 




O ;0 'C^ ;7J • 3 


c^^ 'm • 


r-1 CO • • •-I --H • • 


(M 


rt o c 
n CI 




1 : ; 


-.•s- J-Hin 


; ;(N ■(?» t^ '•-'in 


r-t ^* CO 

c-;to 


s 


c 
o 










00 


c 




< 


=f a. 


'• a 

^ -2 

% s 

■2 « 
2 > 

o z 






c- 







METEOROLOGY. 



255 






:§ 



zo ^ 



^ 
^ 





— « O O O Ci l^ c- 

X (^ •<r ■--; o ■« TT 

lOOOOOOC: 


35 ^ r5 — 

TT O CO CO 

o_ o o = 








n 

o 


•J3III :::::: 










1 : 1 


E 
















"cu 1 :gg : : : 








1 


1 : 




ill : i : 
iScJ : : : 












ll 


■J9l(X t -ocbecccSScooictD 1 


1 : 


S 
o 


COOOOtOOOOOODC^iO 

— o ao r; -^ r3 c^ -^ -^ .n fM 

ss 




CO 
3) 

CO 


■ laiiT 1 .(NTO — CO — dcnaoTOi -i - 1 




lO 32 Xl =-. 33 35 W-. 3J =a 03 35 


^ li 

I * 


•iaqjL 


• CO CO CO ^c CO cs CO U3 ir^ ;ci 1 • 1 • | 




in3>ajoi35aiS33jcjc;=3 


1 


05 
CO 


• taiiT 1 .<?)(D — o — :^r^ = x>r;| .1 . 1 




C»X»35CO<NO:OiOO'J' 

W03a>c505oaoiai3;c;35 

^'s 

* 


CD 


in 

o 

s 






ir5Troooaocs;cjTiO(?»r- 
u5=ncorjCTJC5C3aj3:o53s 

a / ■ ■ 


? 1 


■iaqj, i •:::::::::: 1 : 1 | 




imiiiiiii 1 


•iaqi 


. .CO— .... 

• -coco .... 


: : : 1 : 1 




: Tto o ; : r : 




•jam 1 :3i55SS;SggS5 1 : i 1 


s 


05--ci'^toaooao«oo 

c^oo — QOOiOOf-ooao^sarj 

5sg '^ 


CO 

c» 


1 


• i^fiT 1 'O;?* — ffjoo — 03001 -1 - I 


< 


IC3C— iXioxr-xi^cnX" 
C35cno503iai3>3>ocn 

lim ' ci-^n 

not CI (M II 






•J3WX 1 :S2S.:5i2S?;s-2;::3? 1 : 1 : | 


•< 


t- c» t^ o -r O 35 :m 35 o -v 
i^t^ — xjo350X)ac/3:a) 

C3335350353535 3; 3575 




35 

co' 


•Jsqi 


;00 — — 35030350>t~35 
.iOCOCOtOW-'^»0»0»f^tO 




3? 


(NIWOiOiOOO»co>nr5<M 
COr*C*^-OQ0:OI^003500 

= 053535 0_35050533 35Cn 

CO ri ' n^n 
n ax ci o\ o» 


CO 

at 

CXi 

33 
.-5 


CO 

o 

g 

CO 

CI 

li" 


•JOlIJi 


;cOO-H00351^0033l-a) 

•«COCO>-'5iOCO»C*C«CtO 


2 


CICOOOOiCOCl^OOO 

■yicoci-xioooccr^r-ssoo 

05 05 05 35 35 35 35 35 35 

CO n ' n-rn 

C^(M ^ CI 5<0J 


1 CO 
CO 


- 


=5-.ci«-»iocoogroo ; ; | 


1 ^ 






2 « 

c t 



256 



METEOROLOGY. 



< - 


c-3'O— "a>tDMocoo'Cooo«ooo5omo»irai^O'*-:foooj-<noir5ao 

-T OU lO IT ^ (^ CD -n T -^ CO >C CD in CD ^ r^ t^ lO m CO ": 'O ) . f' r^ CD I-- Tj- IC ( ' 

0=>0=C0 = = 00OC>0=)OO000O = 0t^0C!00 = O0 = 


00 






" 1 1 


•jaiii 1 : : : : : : : :8 : : : :§ :S : : :S : :« : : : : : :S : 1 : 1 : 1 




^ • • - '35 -in • • -Ql * 'O QO . 

OS " ' • ' 05 'Ci • • 'Oi ■ -03 . • • . • O^ ■ 

• ••.••• .CO ••■•C*^ "CO •••CO" .CO ••••••*" • 

:::;:;: :JI ;:: ;<N ;(n ;; ;0J ; :CM ;;;;; ;CT • 


1 1 


•MUX 1 :S : : : : :S3 ■-S'iH :SSgg :i??gg :!?;5?5 : : :S3 : 1 : i : 1 


g 


•O h-CO .003 .OJcOt^O -OOtO .OOO!* • • --J-O ■ 

■CO o— 1 --^lo 'Oit^-^Tr .■^r-jo -e^ — ro • • .cor^ • 

* O) O) O) OiO) '05 0)0:05 '050505 ^05 05 05 - • '05 05 • 


M i 


A" 


'CO COCO 'COCO 'CO CO 'CO CO CO CO ' • -coco • 

. ^ . . . . . r;j fT) . (M (J} . jl ^ (Tl . (J) (M . O} Ol • • • (N (M • 


: 1 : 


•..mul ttg5SS555SS5S5SSSSS;S?SS;SgS3SS3?iS? 1 :| : 1 




(?) LO CN C» 'X- d OJ CD O rr CD C) GO CD ■cP O CD O r^ OJ >C C^ O OJ t7J O Ol OC O' ■M CI 

co^clco(M^oocJ:oco^ocD::5l-lOCO■Tr-■^clCl — — — co-criorrcDi-in 

O5C:5C?5G0a;O5C75:;)0505C7)O5O5a505C?5O505O5 qi 05 05 05050)050:050)0)05 


1 lO 


CO ^ 

(?) 

** ** « ***4.- * 


c) 1 co" 

C) d 


'Ji^MX 1 ioco:otb(bcDco:ocoi>coioSyDcbcc^-iioc5cb<biot5cocbyDcb:Dco?D 1 • 1 • ( 


S 


Ot~(?) — COO=<»CICJ = CQCOC100C)'0 1f:x<COtO'.DOC)clOOOiO — CO(» 

roO'M03'McoooocO'r,ocoo(^iocococO(T) = -H — cico-a.in-a'i--(^-5t< 

c35O505J00)35050505050505a5O05c^0)O5O)0)050)05O505O)O)05050505 


CI 

o 


05 


CO CO -J- c-i ' 

* « O! (7) (M 


2 


CO 

d 


•-.III S^SSSS--5§-SSS^S?3SSS2SgS?S5SSSS33gl :| : 1 


s 

a, 


3;--'!:;::»C)ClC03eO(?!<NC)» = 05!7!r-0— '* = CO=>COO)CDC3I- ^-O-l-- 

c5cooo5C)coo— oiro-riocoof^i(OCO'*''^ci--— < — o-^coco-rr^f^-^ 

C35Cn05»053)0305050)0:0)0)O0)0)05Cn050505(35330505050505C!50505 


ell 


CO CO ■«• ?2 * 
OJ. (TJ (D (N 


ci co" 
d 1 d 


■■'■^'IX i 2 !v' ,t S Jj^ 5 2 ^ n; rj r" r? .— " " f /" r'' 9; r' .13 S! ~ r" r^ r^ .~ r"%! ."^ P 


: 1 : 


s 


■TCDC^CDCODO-rcD'Cf-Oil^XICDCD"^ — C) — CD'5JCDTD-^OXim-CC)*CD-^ 

ococoo5C)oo— 'O^OTJ'Tr(^oXlO-^rPTCo 1— tro-cr-c-cD'Oi^r^io 

0)0505'J0 050505050>05 0505050C:5050505 35 05050503050;0505050)0505 


oo * 


OQ 


CO CO -a-^o 


CI 1 m" 
CI 1 d 


•..„xl §s?^-^-:=:a:s^5<^-S?S?S5S§g?3-S5S?SSS?i :l : 1 


CO 


oor^c>coTc»o)(7')cD'crooc=.:rQO(^cD'*C)coc!roo— 'cc^cD'?'oc)c::o-r — < i-, 

CJ T CO ^ CI CO c: O O) -cr 'O CD 00 ^ X* lO T ^ 10 CO O) C> C) CO 'O 'C r^ CD 10 TO CD CD -^ 
050)C?50)050)!0505050505C7)0)O05C350505050505050)050505050)050505 IcO 05 


co' r: -f co' 1 ,-m' 
CN (N (N (?I C) 


's 










CD lO CO . . CO • • 1 ■ 1 . 1 




• «. ■* • . • • OOO • • -o • • 

o C?5 o • • -o • ' 

■ ; • 1 ; • I : ; ; • • jS ; I • ; • I ; • fSS 1 ; |S • ] 






•...u,x § : :g :::::::: :S ; :g ::: : :SSS§ • :gS : 1 : 1 : 1 




■"Tf-'O 10»«0 OSCDOCO.'O— <• 

CD-'TT ^-'O lOOOCSO'.— .CI. 

O) '• 05 •--••■••• O •; O - •'• O O) O O '' o o • 

n '• -n '•'••'•'•'•'•'• -^ '•'•-<••'•'•'• 'n:^ •:t 'P '. '.-^ -V '. 

{?)•■(?)•••; 0»^(?) CIC)C)cj..^^, 


Hi 


■J-ilIX ' lr;S-itDS>cc5SS5S'io£u5to3g'iS5iSco3ioScoSSSioS 1 • 1 • | 




r^ocico'r5C)"ci-0)coO'X>-'r-rcooioioO'ct-fMcD:0(r)rcox'Xi-<3'CD'ro 

CD— 'r^'^CD05'Ci0.oa3a5050)^^*(050^<05i^cOCD'-OQOOOO — OOI(M 
05 0050505 05 050535050505000(350005050)05050)0000000 


00 
i^ OS 


CO * CO n'^ ^ CO TP ^ CO CO TP 

(N(N(M^ ^ (N«(J)(MO)(7)(?! (M(M 


?5 Is 


•^3VX 1 SSS<5SS§5§5SSS5S3iSS;s33?5gSgSS3?55 1 : 1 : 1 


1 


I^OCOO — C0C0OI-*T0CDCD-:PC0Cli0-;rOC01OC)CDC)Trco-)?)-O!^-'O 
CD— '.-^■J2C?5'CCDiOr^0535CM1«^050— OSf^l^cOCCOJOSO— ' — OfMC) 
35O05C350505C:50505050)35OOO05OO05050>05C750505OOOOOO 


gli 


CO -i* CO CO -cp ■<? CO -r ■* CO CO 'r 

(T! d) (M (D C! C) C! (Tl C) (D ^ CT O 


s |s 


•I'lMT 1 OO -M — 1 = Cn CO 0)05 Jl w CI t- QO = OP CI = CJ 31 — Ol c^ — ao = O Ol = O; o = 1 . 1 . 1 

■'''Mill 1 to ^ «3 --r ic 'C lO ic lO -r to If: tn !^ to uD CD 'X! -c cc »n I- :o 'C ^ ^ "C CD »o CD ■£> 1 . 1 • | 




CO — C005fMCCOC10 — — XICOO— ■COfNQOCOlO-'IDOO^CO'riO^'Cio 
CD — (-COCDC75COCDiOr^050)^-)-^TP3)— 00)f^r^cOCDTC3500 — OOO 
C35O0)C?)050505C:5C7)0)3535OOO05OO0)05C?)0)0:0)05OOOOOO 


o |§ 

-< 3) 

r~ o) 


CO -^ CO CO TP TJ* CO rp -^p CO CO-* 
<M(D(M (MO (?)(?) (D (?) d (M (N 


g|s 


•jatix gS§SgSSS3sSSS§5SS3SSSS^Sg§S5S§SgS 






-5 


co^(M(»-r — o:*ooooO'Diooco*coocDTPoocD-a'<MOCi«'CiO'i<i(7 

CDO'^C0CDO'Ct0TPi^0035d'3'C005OOO5(^COCCi0i^C35OO-^OCI(0 
05;:,050)05::i(35050505(0505OOO05OO05050535053535OOOOOO' 


00 

CO 


g 
§ 


PC r- ~ CO ■?■ CO CO tP -cr CO -P tP CO CO* 
O (?) (?) (?) CI CI O! (?) <?!(?)(?) CI CI CI (?) 


CO 


s 


•IJTIT 1 0031O10OO)a0O)]0Q0O5— c00101O(MQ0310)3.0iCt,0)i^0500300iOJ05O 1 






05 


cb3;f^C0CC0)i0i0-^CDcbc?)C>C0C0d5O3)35r-CD-D»r)cb0DOOOOCICJ 
050)0505(35350505(3505053)0000)00)3)050505053535000000 


•o 
Jo 


(35 


CO CO-^TPCO-TPCO C^-P 
O CI CI C< CI O CI d CI 


CO 


d 


2 
a 


— ldCO-*lOCOr-C»350-.C»CO-*>OCOt~»350— l'?)CO-*>ncOr-.(»CJ)0-i 


1 1 




00 
>-5 



METEOROLOGY. 



257 



i3> 





1^ to cc ':o f-' 1- «% 'J? in (- 'C 00 (•- I- a; '^ o- r^ tx/ c-T CO OD r^ j-- tic i- fy. 


X j to 






j-Hix 1 :-::■.: :;^-^ : ; : :,^!5S : :g : :3 : ;s : : | 


a. 
to 


■ n a. a; (^ . . • . -3- 1- '^ . . -1 . m . . ^ 

•C3 ..... • OJ c; 33 . . ■ '3:3333 . .O -03 . - 03 

i°* ' * * i : :<^ <n ■ • • •&< ot | •« ;o5 • -S 


1 i 


■j.iiij, 1 :H- ::?.- : :.i,^- : a ::^52 :,^=5?J «, g : : | 




• cc rn .0^ • .ooJo . ■ n • -^ y^ ^ .-^tcco .in • -to 
. CJ 01 ..?)—« • 'OLccr^ • "to •■^■^..-3 . lo O) x> .00 . -n 

•0333 .3333 • CTSS". 33 • .33 -033333 .03033 .C3 . .33 


:li 


■ nn CT CO • -n n . -m -n n .«rrco -co . n 
1 ; Cl T< (N (D ; ; CM ^ « ; ; 'M ; CI CI ; CI d CJ ; (N ; ; CI 


: 1 : 


•J»MJ, 1 sS5£5S5SSiS=SSS5SgSSi:SSSS5SS : : I 




I TJ''^-.r0033')0CI:CO-ViS'7^TPOrr'r'»33O'Ni0fMtDOin^».0 Id 
■>r C! -N CJ = rt T X tc i- .-- -^ to '^J ^ IO ■ -^ 3-. .C (M « JU 00 3; 03 75 .-~ 
33 3; C3O3333i33 33 3S333:33033333O3C333C033C.O3 — 03033133 l(^ 


UO 

33 


CO Tn CO 1 aj 1 CO 1 


•J^ll r 1 — .w >i -T — Jj — oi uj _ ^i ."% -3 — JU j; -M JO x> :o i.v c^ :n ^ rr '71 ■ • 1 




— ■x;'--*oooiomrrJOCooctoc:r:rrx33X??-<-eooLOoicoif5 » ? 
•^■W-Tioio— .r-:rrxoo(^co«o:oojTr«0'r:xtir;ci:^ooX'a:33:o -^ to 

333333O33333Cn33O3;nO3C»33O333Cn333J0&33=;33O333a3 3333 1-- 33 


n T co' CO to 1 ?o 

1 ?«*• * * ?'^**«*?'2'^ 


•";»'il 


1 13 to t3 -c tc 13 ta -j: -^ tc - tc t3 ■; -r- ■ - .r: CO '^ 'C t3 to tc to -i tc te 




-T0O>^>— ■-^-^XjOO.-OtOCC)-a-r-tOXu^O<XTC.X3>#-¥ 
C3333333033333(r333a33333^;0333330333ju33O033333333333 



00 


X 

S5 


CO tr CO co" 


2 


■i.iir. 1 S •■•5 ;;. 3 .^ .-7; = cy ,:; .^ .r; :; = 5 - =; 3; .r; CO X .:;; pj -^ ^ g g ^ . . | 


a. 
n 


•^r^xi — ■o = a)'rco-'0-rco'NTrtrtr:ci'X>jOCoci3i'»33.fl'-r 
■.*r:T»co.-ci-7>--Tc»7:ooc^tntoo».^aO(^'i.oc033Xo033rT-^ 

0303333:33333i3;0333C;333333303333333X)33O333333 31O33 


=0 |§ 

5 S 


sS CI c< CI ci 51 


to CO 

d 


■..„ii SSSSSSgSSSSS£^s3?^SS^£S235Sg : : 1 




^c«-^otD.^oJx.*otrir^--*-<r — aoo-^ = o}OiotD33-t'ooo 
LO -rr -*' CO — cj CO -f 33 33 30 i^ f^ f^ cj .0 XJ 00 33 as ..I- 3. au 33 — UO 

03333:a333033i33 33 3333 33 3303333333330UO3OO333 3;C5C:33 


i 


CO 
33 


CO ^ro CO tt -r CO 

(D d CI CN CJ CI CI 


s 


CO 

d 


•jj.ix 1 :^5 : : ; :5 S?! :::::::: ;1^ ::::: : • : | 




•i:n33-...33-c= S 1 .| . 

; CO ■ ; : : : ~i : rr t:^ ; ; c : I .' I i ■ TT • • ■ I I ; 1 ; 1 : 
■ o> ::: '^' :" '^' r ■::::;::<?•;::': : • : 


•.:,„i 5SS : :3 :5r.-!?5 : : :S :S :SgS : :SSS : : 1 


s 

< 


Tj'33'M . -to •coooco.rao . . .to .10 .— 'O-* . .ri-r-w 

— X33 . -r- .3>'?JCO*''^ " . '33 -CI -o^-^to . .UOtO— ' 

C 03 33 • -03 .33=000 • • -03 -0 -000 • .— 00 1 . 

.#?o'"-co.rr'-<}<''<r'*.co'-<t*^-^'.3-*'.^'*| I 

c: ^1 : : CT ; 51 oi 01 • - ; CI ; CI • C! CI ; ; CI | ; 




•J.IIM. 1 - - - r: = r- :>; .- rr r; - 52 .i 2 3 '.i ,»; ~ .5 <;: ,^ ^ ,-^ 5; r;^ ,7; g : ; | 


■i 


in33-M — tOGOCOCI — C0-O»O-::Q0'£/U0C0 = tCC0Ot0tC— 'CII^QO CO lo 
— ■« 3333 1- '-r-=C0~'MiOC0'Nnc='Tr0.O-O3tOTrtO>StO-. -* d 
3333330333330000000330003300000000 I« lo 

'J-CO ^ 7^'— -f.T:0-f 00 T3« 

*'? *"'*** CICICICICICJ^ Od 


■J-irii. 1 


— OTfOlOJ — 000 C0OO33Ti0UO3, 1^ O-- — — CO 


• 






■i 


i2x5SS?!%oio?3d!cS?:55~~-oS§£3S^to2 ^T 5! 

33 33033333133 :iO 33 = 31 _; O O 


r) 01 (N ^ IM OJ Cl CI CI d ^ ^ CJ 


•■ "M 1 r= ■=• -r •-- .-r -- — T — - -j-tr:-- .^ .r .- to .- m -r -ir 'o cc -j; <o to • • | 


S 



ci?oxo;3co'Mr?:to'C'N — — oxtoot^c^oir-doi'TK — 

.— X X 3; I - -,'; X X CO ot 0' 1,0 CO CO ct; 33 -v CO It; 33 X to lO UO tr: to CI 

C33 313333 3:3333OOOOOO33:»033303OwOOCOO 


?3 


33 



d 


•^ CO ro -cf CO CO •'T -tr CO t 
(M(N dd ddddd CI 


X 




•jam §SgS§5ig§3S3SiSSfiSSS§§SSSS5 : : | 


5? 


dtCLOCOC)tOtO«OC)'MotCtDOOtO-^l---»'r-tOtOOJ31i0 33C^ 
^ !■- X X f- to f- 31 CO d d ^ CI -: 33 ---. TT rvi t- 31 X to "0 lO UO to --H 
OC33303333333330 0O3fcOO0:ClOO3333OOOOOOO 


■«• 1 


.-CO CO ^ CO CO tr -'S' CO 73 TT 
dd dCI ddddOIdd 


1 1=5 


..-^..T i c 3s — ■ — 31 = — 05 ^ cf; m oi C5 ci 00 1^ oi OS r^ c^ c; o> 31 - > 
J30i I ;o»^tc«D'r:«o«CJ'0'CiCirttc»r:oiC»/:oo>r;i.-:x>'0«ceo»otwCD 


■i 


to-CTftox-».oco = = tDoocp = = 3:!Odotoin'C'tDO^roto Ir- \n 
c f- X r- to 'O *£ 33 d 01 — ?3 d CO 33 3. CO oi t- en X to -^ t-O »n lo — ■ »o ! ^ 

O31311333103c»33OOOOOO33 3:OO3333OOOOOCO l.-O [o 


.rco co-^ cocorr-rrrocoT 1 
dd cid eidcidddd ^ 1 


il^ 




.— ciro-^LOtoj^xoto — d73.rotor-0033O»0toi-X3;-r;— ' 

^ — — — — '^^^^^^dddddCI.'OCO 

r-' 

< 


1 



17 s 



258 



METEOEOLOGT. 



tl 


t- ic !c 1^ to J- tc to a: 
oo = oooooc: 


Trx-roscoco-^ocoojtocc 
uooor^intct-xjooi-oof-i- 
00=0000=0000 




IT 
X 




= 





■j'lij, 1 ;::S : 












5 






CO — CI CI 

to to CO -0 


:co 








CO 


M CO • 






i 






in 

co' 
Oi 






33 03 33 03 

* 


-co 

•33 










■j.Lii SS :Si2S5§g3 


CO CO ^ CI CO CO 

CO to to to tc to 


33 










too l(Xl'0-C)-»^iO<M=> 

— (71 .*najtciOCDr-or^ 
0305 •O505a;da505005 

c^ ' : :^ ' ' ' ' n ^ r^ 
0> ; (M (M (7» C) 


coci ic rr to 

— . rr TJ- CO — — • 

03 03 33 31 33 C3 

CO 


&CJ3 

* 








•j.Mx 1 5es^-?2Sgsg-3SS3SSS??5gS3 






U3 


tD = JOiO(MCOO<M — C^OOOTtCiC-yMOOOCTtM 

i-toiTio.-TTiotot^or^f?! — rtTTr^ — ^-rtCTCJ 

cnaiOTC. ai=iCJ)3>a> = Oicnoi3)OJ3>o>=33:oicn 

n -^ n 

a (N (M 


•0 
to 

C) 
CX) 


d 
at 


■Ji*Mi 1 ^'sSloSSioStoSStoasStijJoJoSiSi) • • I 


2 

Ha 


-^CJ'n-c'^c^iOTtDf^ — i-"C^ — n^r^ — <NOifTJOf 

o>ai35CS;j>3>oc»cr>ooioioiCTio>3icacEa>030i 

CO -^ ri 


CI CJ 

C) CO 

00 d 


•«m SsSSSSS2gSS32S2SSS5S§ : : ( 




O00Trn'-£t-5 00O:O = 0) = t0CTQ01^tO'MC0ntO 

o>— .-fir:(^iraTri-f-ci-m — cTiTco — c? — cvoi 
03c:iC3a5a;03ai353iOOCiaiOJcioioiOTOJcno5 

Co' c^ '^' r:i ' " 


CI 

QO 


CO 

d 


•«i,l s = s-:sk:-3-3;5S5^25?;S-;^:;;-^ : : 1 


CO 


■V ^) r^ o 3 o} X) OJ 00 11"^ o 00 to X) oi ^ X) CI to — to 
^im^u^xtOTf^i^cDQOro — r^iO'a" — ojojcooi 
O3cncoc;)0)cno303cno;:nc:30)a)<33a30)03cnc:3cn 

CO CO V ro 

in Of CIO) 


to t^ 

CO rr 

ci 1 co' 

00 d 


•J<>Ml 2gSSSS33S5SS5S£S5S55S : : 1 


n 


ffOiCOSXTOOClQOOtO*^ — OJOtCC^tOGOI^tOCS IfTJ d 
CO CI .r^ to X) to u^ 1- X O CO TT — TT .. ; ^ OJ Ol n r; CO =5 iS 
0333C3>Ca35Cr, a>ajOiC;053ias3aCSOi3iCS010335 ^ 103 

CO co' Tf co' cJ 1 CO 

oj OQ<7j(n xj oj 


•iaqi 1 : 


• rr 
•CD 






CO 

to 








. . . -^ . 

. . .to . 




















CO 

■*' 

C! 








; ; :o • 
: : :S : 

; ! :S5 : 












•Jaili 1 S 


•to 




CO CO 

to to to 


TTCO C» • T T CO 

to to to • to to to 










-5 

-tct 


to 
en 

CO 

at 


■ ct 

is 


rr 
c< 


CI C) — 
CI CO 

000 

Ci 


TTO to . CI 33 to 

03 f^ 03 - — 00 XJ 

C". C73 03 • = 33 03 
co' CO • rf CO CO* 

ct ; CI CI CI 






1 




•Jdt|X 1 oHtcS--cSS3cctc!!: 


X to if to 5 to to lO 5 






■i 


cncJcoo'^oao — o^docooocitocnr^oooto rn Ico 
txJt^odr^coorMcoioiOwt^sj xjxxjcj-. ro to = 

CJ^ 35 C O O O O O ^ O O O O Oi O — 05 Ol Ci OJ en — 'o 

CO r: -^ ^ CO CO '?■ TT CO " * ' t^* rr 

OlCJin ^ (MOIJIUCMCJ C»|C! 


•aa„i; g§52S35SsSSiSS5SSS8S5 : : I 


-< 


i ^ 

aitoo— <QOoo^o-^>ftC)c?tooocooir:cT»cr^ oo 33 

'ju I (Mcod — cjrJOiooi^cn, OTOuaicioi en 

03 33 05 oj c^ 0: 01 en C5 05 ^ 

Co' ^5 tT t' CO Co' ^ Tf 00 ' ' ' ' ^' 1 TT 

CN -M ^ ^ CUM C» C) pi CI 00 CJ 


• i-.M T 1 OJ w -- Tl OJ C>^ c; C^ — C^ 'C CJ 'l'' ;*3 -^ .'. C*t C = X^ — • • 1 


■< 
o 


tD'<rtoccncioaoc)QOQOocCJx>-<j'TOTf^tDio -^ t^ 
auf^ocJcocJ-^ — co-n-ii^or^cTi 0000030103 to 

C73 3300COOOOOOO^_0; cnt000303CJlCJ3Cn r^ lo 

Co' « -"I" -w' Co' CO -T ^ 75 ' ' ' ' Tj^ 1 -iJ 

CI CJ CI CT CI CI CJ CI 00 Ci 


•jain 


-H033 — ClC033t33 — C1-^0-'C>COC)C5C1 = CO— 1 - • 

totoiOtou::oiO>otocctotototctDtototDtO'Oto ; ; 


s 

-5 


OOTrtOOC730>C10'^LOQO^tOQOtOCOtOOO'^00 CO 

r-t003^CO— <0— «C»Trtr:O3tOQ0' X;0000300 t^ 

03 C^ C33 03 C3 03 03 03 03 03 - O O 

rj'co^" "' 'Trco'coT^coco"-rcoc5 -^ tt 
CJ °^ <^ J. <^ '^ CJ CI CI CI 00 


•J311I 


OC!303 = -i— 'CJ>CX)0— ■do— • — 0— lO-iOOOO I '. 
tO'rtiTjtDtOtDlOiOtOCOtOtOtOtOtOCOtOtOtOiOtO " • 


■i 

03 


— C)cooo'ro»ooi-ro5>oo«ox>cicj — TT 

t^tocr. i-Ti — o-;— '■:j-ir:33toa)Oot^i-33a3oo 

03 :^_ en 0_ i; 0_ 03 33 03_ 03 03 03 CT3 =3 

CO ' CO -T -r n ' co" rr -»■' co' 

C< CI CJ Ci CJ CJ CI C) 


°° 1 t 

•3- CJ3 
C3 1 33 

co' 1 co' 
00 1 d 


O 


■-I c 

1 ■"■ 0. 

1 M 


-J cor 


r u 


^tor 




c 


ne 


5 - 


-c 


IP 


^ScicJS'So 


5§§ 


5 


1 




c 





METEOROLOGY. 



259 



< -" 1 


— o t- to 


ai^nn ri 


■^rCSi/SOO'^totOiOOS-^-'tt^ 
t~tO3S0OClCltX)3J0O0L,I~tO0O 
000000^000=0 


11111111 1 


o 


CI 

c 






CI 




■J-'lll 1 


: : ; 2 -5 


S • -to ^ o 






:i : 1 








: : :!5?i 


c» • • CO r^ o 

g : :iSg 


• •oaatT '• '■ • • '• -o-tr 

• -CSOSJU • • • - • -rrTr 

• •'jOOOOO • • • • • 'OS^S 


•••••• -1 1 

• • • • • • -OS • 








• -n CO coco 

; ; <M c : : ■ : : : J' ^ 








•JrfilX 1 


5 ■ --S 


^ ; • S to 


to to to to to -tioo • . ^to 


lO • • • -to -co 1 


: : 1 


s 


i i :i 


OJ - •asm 


SsSSS ii'g : : :? 

cnosooatiou -csx • • -en 


o • • • -to ■ o 
C! • • I -OS -en 






a • -at 


(M ; -s^ 


bi • '•■■ b) • ■ • o) 


CO ... -co • 

d ; ; ; ; 0» • 






•J.llli 1 


<o ccc ;i5 


to to Z; to to 


to io -o to to S S S S ■•: S to 


o o to o 3 tii to to 1 


■ 1 • 1 


s 


■<}■ O ?^ i.'^ 

ro =-. 3-. =3 


r^ in 00 -^ 00 

o to to a> o 

=3 o> CJl ^. o> 


Qoooinorrotor^oototr 
CO — osefsvjTlcrsosooco^ 
OiOsooajjuosx jLososoios 


oo — to >.o f- f X CI 1 
— OOCI^COOO 
OS OS OS O. C!S OS o: OS 1 


CO 


'■?, 


n 




« « * 


* * * 1 


CO 


CO 
CI 


•J-tiU 1 


to StcS 


to »3to c 


to to to to to to uo 'C to O iO to 


o '^J ."O CI :?J ^ ^" .'S 1 
CO to to to to to to to 1 


: ■■ 1 


S 

b 


TT O — CO 


;» => = too 
ir: to i^ cf: to 

OS OS ^ -"v en 


OSOr-'MOSOtOt^iCtC'NtO 

dsosjjooauosoococ&'juosS 


COCO-T'J-OCOCJ 

tnootw^rio — 

(3S OS OS OS OS OS OS OS 


00 

2 


OS 
CO 




^, 


* ■> « 


* * * * 


•ioiix 


to c c to 


to to to -c to 


cotrco:o-5':vjujs = t-o;o* 

to -O :0 to to to -t "O to •'T .O as 


S CO CO to -b 5 to CO 


:| : 1 




in X05 » 


00 _> OtOI-l 
If^ to to 33 CO 


to — (^cooootototocoooo 
cotnososos — csososos:^'^' 

CSOSuOjUOOOSUOJUO^JOOSOS 


OJ — -T •'T O GO to to 

<7<o = (M^r^o — 

en OS OS OS OS OS OS OS 


00 


o 
cits 


* * J( * * * 


* + 


•iHlU 


to o 5 5 


to 3 S -o to 


to to to to to to '-0 <0 ^ lO i-O to 


-^ .■.•!? ^ Cf T in r"j 

to to to to to to to to 


:| : 1 




Oi OS oj as 


— — CO to rr 

to to «; OS to 

cs OS OS cs en 


COQOOlOCO— 'totoooo— *o 

COOMOOSOSOtOSOSOSOriuO 
tSSOSOSOOJCOlGOOOOUOSas^S 


00 — -^aotOTTOO 

(NOOCirS.-O — IK 

osososososososos 


55 


t-- 


iJ 




* • « 


* * 


- 


?. 


■JrtiU 


O iO T 7J 

CO to c o 


•n- T> — ^ in 

to to to to -o 


^^X^fS^?^"5.-X^^^'^ 


— CO 5" 3; CI i-o to CO 


:| : 1 


s 


CS CT CO T 

C; Ci Ci 3s 


to O to O T 

to (' (^ o! to 

OS OS OS O CJS 


CSCSO. OSOSOtOsjoOSOlOSOS 


o :r ic CI to -M o ^ 
cr. ososbbsososos 


_ 


Is 


s 


m T n 

Ot !7i CJ 




^ 


■^ 




•J"U 














































•J-iilX 


































•i 


i : • i 


CN • Ol • • 














•J-<1|,I, 


-S -3 


C< O OS ^ p 


■n^^o^rsososoxjos — 

to "? -O t^ -O to ■?> lO -O "T "^ to 


O .-O CO CI CO CO CO ^ 
CO -o -c f!: -c -o -rt -o 


; 


1 : 


S 
■^ 


oSSScJ 

O =i = = 

•c' «' r« 

O tTJ CI 


W 00 "T CT (M 
n <M C^ to .-O 

o o o o o 


•nDTtotNi^oininotn— ' 
o-jOX).-tocsi-:^t~toc3s;N 
OOS3SOS3SO. cscscr. ooso 


tOTTXtoo-rciiO 
crti f- (^ o CJ — OS crj 

cosososoooosos 


r- 


OS 


V CO -^ 
(MO) O) 


CO -^ ^ CO CO 
CI CI O! CI CI 


uO 


CO 
CI 


•J-l|l. 


sss? 


g 2 S? -e S 


■'g3S?:"2S?!^?:?;.^i^:S 


y ?J7' — •2?3,?2 y 


: 


1 : 


■< 
o 

■j^nx 


C 3i = O 


w o o = o> 


or~ooootO'Tcotooos'^'^ 

— 10 OO t- to O t^ t~ XI O OS Ol 

OOSOSOlOSOOSOSOSOStJSO 


00 — CIXtOOf~0 

cnooiooc<C)oso 

OS c; OS O O O CS OS 


s 


Is 


re ?; -a- 

C) CJ C) ^ 


, 


•^ CO CO -tr CO tr 


CO n T ■* CO CO 

CI CI CI CJ CI CI 


2 


|a 


in -r uo -M 
to -o -o -o 


3.^S-o--?! 


'TOtCO.-O— — 0OOS33t~f-— • 

to -o to to •= -o > -; -tr lO «o 'O to 


."; ~ 'TJ r SJ r' .■;; ?• 


: 1 : 1 




ci r- to (?) 
o cs c-/ c: 

O w. o = 


to Ci to c; o 


to 'jj 5s t^ to o X/ CO oo r^ OS CI 

wC3SOSCSOS03S03;3SCSOSO 


C O TT O QC C! OS CI 
O T. 00 — CI CI CCS OS 

oososooocnos 


o 

CO 


1 ^^ 


-r CO -1- 
Ol J» O) 


* * * * 


TT CO n Tn — 


-^ CO CO '^ -^ cr CO 
(N CI O CI CI CI CI 


•jsqx 


r-> r? -^ — • 
CO to to to 


S3S33 


CI — (N(M--OOOOSOSl-^r^OS 

to to to to to to lO U-: lo uo lo o 


-tro — — — cioci 

tctotototctototo 


Hi 


S 


9 CT to iO 

S ~. = 3 


c» rr CO = to 
c^ r; c^ to c*^ 
c; o o. =; o 


OOtOCTCOOOO-WOOOOSOO 
OXi]tif-tOO(^r-GO;OJj — 

cososososoosostr. oscjso 


tOCOClT)-OOCIO 
C3Sf^M = COCIOa3 

tTSOSOSOOOOOS 


§ 


li 


■V r^ tr 
(^ C) :m 


, 


tr ro CO -r CO ^ 
c! CI o c) CI at 


Co' CO TT TT CO 
CI CI CI CI CI 


to 


|s 


•Ja'IX 


— ?J :^ o 
to to to to 


o :^ r^ — ' -^ 
to CO o to to 


— o^oooooQOcor^r^oo 

tOtOtOtOtOtOOOiOiOOlO 


rtOOO— CIO — 

cocococototototo 


Hi 


-< 
en 


•^ o to o 

Ci TD :s O 

tr. 3J o = 

c*:' c^ -r 
c» en c^ 


•JJ 3 c) to CO 
c o b o b 


ccipiOQO — cototocl^l■p■<^• 
=s=^oscsososOTCsosososo 


— otoi^^tooo-^ 

Oi- t- OS Ci — OS 00 
OSOSC?SO)OOOSOS 


^ 
o 


OS 


CO ■^ 
CI (N 


CO CO TT -T CO -o 

CI CI CI d CI CI 


— 


ls 


2 


01 M TT lO 

o 


to t- OO OS = 


— cico-rificotocno — cicri 


T-Lotor^oooso— 4 

CI CI CI C! CI CI CO CO 


o 


c 
a 

1 



260 



METEOEOLOGT. 



< -^ 


00 — mic lO CTo 

CO OS *^ C^ t^ OC 03 

0=0000 


1^ cc 00 (^ 

0000 


ci-?rci»ccDtr:c?irr-.rio 
X *y. en t^ X X (^ CO cc 31 

ooooc;ocooo 


enciTriocoooxrr 
I- cc cc (^ t^ f~ r^ cc (~ 

000000000 


d 


1 CO 










■J'lix 


1 ; ; : ; cc • S £ -3 • ■ £ 


ic ••'•■•■•• S .-. 


X JO ■ . 1 

.c cc iC . • 1 


1 : 


to 


I • r '' T^ •oo ^ to '• ''f~- 

. . . .o> • oo Ol tu . .CO 
. • • - CT • 00 00 00 ■ oo 

I ; • ^n n ' n '• ■ « 

..-•(DC. (M . • CI 


X ^ ^ . * ^ ^ ^ ^ cc c: CI • r - • --WO ' ' 

X 03CC43 .... CO CI . . 

X> ej3 3;C33 ■ •.•■c:33 .. 

CO .••••••• m ' CO ••• ^ CO CO ■ • 

r^ ........ C) 01 ; ; : ; Cl Cl • ; 


1:1: 

MM 


■J''ilX 


1 -7. — ■ Ct ->' — 

1 Ft; to • 'c u: -j:- 


— C! ■ — 

•r CO • cc 


5 '.'■'■'.'■ to s 'H 


iC -o ^ cc cc cc «o ■ S 1 - 


1 : 




00 -GO 'OS 0> O 

c-5 ■ m n ' ' 
CI a o) 


-TO en 
00 30 .00 

00 X) -00 

' co' co' 
Cl c 


r~ :.:;;; cr. -T 
S3 : : : : : :S§S 
co' : : r . '. :co ■ ■ 


■0 -r ; X CO Cl X -co : 
CO Cl . rr ir: CO — . CO 

C3 33 C3 C3 35 33 - C3 

' CO ; CO ' ' CO : co' • 

CJ • d d Cl ; 




■J31IJ, 


1 CO tC £ i S CO «3 


S CO -c S 


CO CO CC CO cr CO CO CC CC CO 


0. — . Cl .-- 03 ^ _ i • 
■ CO CD cc CO CO ■ " cc CO 1 • 






m -* X 00 ct; "^^ (71 

3-. 00 /. 5 5i 00 00 


CO -^ -^ 
X 1^ cien 
Ci. X 0-. 00 


cc Cl X CO 0? en t^ 'C Cl 

10 iC CO — Cl — •' 33 t^ 

%)oxxenen3^cn3i33en 


CO Cl lO 'T >.o CO 1 — ro -^ 
0: 31 3. 33 en en 33 33 en 1 ^ 


1 33 


CI 




^ 


» • > I — 


co' 

1 ^' 


■I'lilJ, 


« !M -M T.. -7' -^ C-O 

CO -Jr CO --C --C 'C 'O 


— ^ CO Cl 


5 g .•; 2; S g :?! Ti g ,5 


5 - .J- .5 V? :;:;-.? 1 : 




-1- 


CO r: 00 CI o rr o) 

o a CK o c m ri 

Cr. JO JC. O. 31 JO CO 


Cl cc t~ CO 

oL 00 en ju 


cooTj-ciococoenr^co 
ooot5xc3303ooen3l03*en 


CO Cl 'o -^ '* CO *' — CO \ yi 

en en en en 3: en 33 0: en 1 .r 


1 ^• 

1 ro 






* * * 


* ♦ * 1 — 


co' 


j.>iii 


5 CO CO '<- CO cc -i 


CO to --- cc 


re ■£■ «5 CC cC CO cr CC -C CO 


cc cc cc CO CO cc cir -c cc ' 






O ~) r 'Ti r: -T-l 

— oi rs O d Ol CJl 
0> 00 30 0-< CT. Oo 00 


Cl 5" O Cl 
03 00 33 00 


pcNTf — .cxr^^jt^x 
ooxxcnoixenSencn 


■^COiCCOTO— occ 
CO o- ic .^ ic "^ Cl — CO 

en 33 en 33 33 en 33 33 -, 




1 33 

CO 

1 ';' 


CO 


* * 




* * 


•l3i!A 


cc •>' id 'Ji -c ■£ to 


•'• ~ r- r'* 


cc cc i' CO cc cir cc 'r -r Ic 


S-' S S 5 ? 5r -c -r -7 1 : 


1 : 


^ 

b 
m 


— CO t ir: .o 00 

— C". C3 O C 35 3i 

cr. 00 00 Oi ov 00 00 


lO X >C 10 

X 00 33 00 


Cl X CJ X 33 Cl cc Cl 
cc lO CO C33 Cl CC X 

X X 00 en 33 X en 33 en 


33 01 X -T ^ ^ IC CI X Cl 
CO Cl »C «C 10 CO 01 — CO — 

a. 33 en en C3 33 33 en 33 1 lO 


S 


CO 
CI 




co' .3- CO 
CI CICI 


t-.' 


d 


■'.'lU 


^ T' ."O '^ ^ -^ — 


? ■- 3 - 


;i :> 55 2 S 5: .%i ■:• :Z. :'a 


i- ?x ^ ."3 :*^ ^^-zziz^i 


: 




cc 2; 9 T- rt oc oo 
Ci 5 ?. 5 di ,. CO 


^r ^ en 
X 00 cix 


Cl X X Cl ^ ^ cc CO .3. 
CO >o X — Cl e; Cl . - X 
xxxeno. enc33enoo3 


en 33 33 3; 33 en 33 33 33 


Cl 

s 


eh 

ci 


(M 




CO -r CO 
CIO) C! 




••'''>I>1 






















CJ 


:;:;:;; : : : : ::::::!:*.: : ; . 3 : : : ; : 


:l: 
:|: 


•J '!X 


'.'.'. iii '.: '. 


5 :ii5 


CO ^ ^ • • • • CO - -J? 


co5co K ■ • -1 • 


. 


-5 


' '. .CO ■ '■ '• 

.::§::: 


X ■ X X 

en • ej. en 


. ^ ^ - • .' X ■ 

d — o 

en ■ 


cc TT — ira ■ uo ; ; ; 1 '. 
S • § •' • • 1 • 
.cr CO t' -)•' -co' - • '• \ • 

Cl Cl d d ; Cl ; • "I • 


: 


:;:"::: 


CO • CO 
CJ C! 


CO - Tf. ■ Tf 

d ;■;;•; O) d 


■J.11IJ, 


^ ■' -i rr cr 'r' CO 


■' 52 :2 3 


5.]:?25---=5-- 


— — — to^x — cnr^ 1 ' 


: 


•< 


cr CO CO -^ CO X CJ 
00 ) » ;i: c^ (Xj 03 
0; ai 0: 05 :;5 cp. 


X T ^ 

p; rr c:3 CO 
cncr. cji(33 


O3or^cor-'vciocoio 

dC0^XCJ3f'33CIiC»O 

en en 33 en 33 en 03 ^- 


^ X X Tl- 1 CO 

— en Cl X r^ .-. lO 

O330 = e;oc3S3O lo 


1.0 


CO 


^ 


c> 

* 


•w CO — ■«■ - co' Tf 1 en 
Cl Cl d ^ Cl d d Cl — 


CO 


•«'M 


_= C! CI ~' — p jO 


Jc ?- -2 S 


,5, .7 ?2 -:;:;?,- f5 :; r; 


::.7.-5.'3^,i = S-;: 1 : 


: 


3 


cn CO fi |S rot" ui 

:7. o> C3 a: 03 en 02 


CO 1^ 
03 0i en 33 


^^.5^x = ti;cnci^iS 

dCn3333C;-0333~;0-3 


— ■"^cicoene^x.r |f^ 

— :n CI0303.-0 — 

occoooenencno Ico 


X 
33 


n 


* * 


CO T CO CO -CI- 
ddd..iCI 


Cl Cl Cl CI ci c'l Cl ^ 


CO 


■j'la 


Tc to S 5 i -r -i? 


CC? -r "-■ -J; 


S cc y ~ cc S ~ ^' -C CD 


cc 2 -C cc 5 fo ^ lO lo 1 • 




< 

o 


CO CO r^ *^ CO -r ^ 
en 00 f^ f^ en (^ "O 
en 01 en 05 3; 33 OT 


CO CO •» X 

en en 33 03 


-4. X CO cc 33 •'■ lo en X Cl 

CO 01 • : X 3. X re — 10 >0 

033133 eno3en3iooo 


— TTCi — enr-rr^ |m 

— 33 — — dCKXI^O — 

oB>oooenen330 Ico 


i 

33 


CO 


^ 




■^r:^ ^ :ri co'-^'o3 
CJ d Cl d d Cl Cl 1 — 


CO 
d 


•Jjiix 


en — = = = 

1.0 X CO CD CO CO CO 


CO cc CO 3 


01 — 05 en 33 X — en 

CO CO cc CO ^0 .. lO cc 


cnoo — or~33i^cc 1 .' 
•0 — cocDOiOtctniO 1 • 




0-' 


CO cc 00 -N -N 10 CI 

00 00 cc 1-- en -^ lO 
a a-, a s> a s> :ji 


X X p 

cr. 33 en en 


T CI Cl -3- CO a; CO Cl ci 

C7 Cl iC X 03 X X — iC 

33 en3333c:3en33Coo 


CXOfXI^OOCl Ix 

ox — OiXi^e:^ en 

oonoooencn330 It 

— CO r" ' -T CO ' CO -f' en 1 
Cl d d d Cl ^' <^ 1 ~ 1 


CO 

co' 
d 


CI 




^ d 


•iom 


03 en en cs CI 
m CO 10 ic ^ >f: CO 


— Cl 

cc coco CO 


coo — oxxxxc:en 
cc cc CO a: >.o uo LO to CO >o 


r^ — en — CO t^ i^ CO i . 
iC cc lO CO CO irt uo 






en c-r 'C cc 31 ^ 

t^ CO CO cc 00 to '^ 

en 01 en en 0-. en en 


cc X X 

■^ CO X V 

en encncn 


ocoxoxo-^cor^cn 

CO — 'crXXXXO'^TT' 

33;53enoic33 33;»oco 


CO cc ic .3. C) CO -^ d 1 a* 
xxo eni-r-o in 

33330003303330 ICO 1 


X 
33 


s 




d d 


co' co' 'T ^ rr> co f' 1 03' 1 
Cl d Cl d d d d 1 — 1 


CO 

d 


2 
c. 


r-i at n -9 ta to t~ 

CO 




XC33 — 1 


dco'j'iotot^xcno — 


dcOTfintoi^xcno I 

(N Cl d 01 d d Cl d CO 




s 

03 







METEOROLOGY. 



261 



c-2 
E = 
< - 


CO 00 CO y^ tc ;o CD t^ t- OJ '^ 

1 -1 • 


-'•MX 1 ;:.:::.; 


1 . 1 • 






Mii 


•J'll (. : ; : : :S ; : : 


1 : 1 : 


s 
ti, 
3" 


i '. '. '.in . '. '. 

• '■ '• -O) ' '■ '• 

I '. I '.n '■ • ' 
; ; ; ;(S • ; ; 




•J^.|.L 1 3 5 -its §5 gS 1 1 : 1 




00 ^J C= » -T -^ -M lO 'O .O CO 

=-. a> o a: 03 o> en 3; 3) \ to 1 as 

cr: ~> TT ro 1 .0 1 «' 

o> •» 1 CO 1 01 


•J-MX 1 3S5-S5o^SS ! : 1 : 1 


8 


'T X! 00 3 1?) 31 - to CO .0 31 
f- X => TO ■* -1 -.1 ir .0 rs .0 
;;: -_ 0; a-. 35 3> en 3> to 1 01 

n :o -T -o I .-5 1 .-o 

CT ji -M (r< ^ ( .-0 1 -M 


•4-MX 1 =£:3i;3SSS§SS 1 : 1 : 1 




= «C-O00'M-313CO1' -- 
OJ 0> ri 31 3> 3) 3) OJ to 1 

CO r^ ^ ro ' ' ' " " 'O 1 CO 


.-■■•"U 1 23S-S-S2SSS 1 : 1 : 1 


P5 


cooasoTfto — tooo -r — 
oo 3> JO TT ->■ ■^■; T- ir? 1 :o 

013>0m350>3:a>35 (O loj 

ci-yi ^ y> lO j ci 


■J'M.I, 


to -.O -0 to -^ :c lO 10 -e: 1 -1 • 




35 3) = -JO ^ .-0 (M ^ r- CO 
0-. 3>=:3i350J0i3)3) CO 3» 

CO CO -^ ^' 1 iri ( CO 

0)S4 9101 CO 1 M 


•jaqx 1 ::::::::: 1 : 1 : | 


CI 


llliiin: ill 


•iaii.r, 1 ::::::::: 1 : 1 M 


■< 


nnnillMl 


•i«.,,. S=^g2«s;e^3? 1 : 1 : 


:• iiiiilsiillli 


■J.»IH, 1 .-^ :i a - .- :S ;;; -fe - 1 :| : 


S 
•i 

o 


CC3SJS — :ooinxco Ir^ Ico 

= O C3 =J 3J 35 = 1 (TJ 1 6 

^^ ■^rocO'TTrlcofT*' 
(N^ ^ ^ CI -nu JI (M I ro j (?) 


••"•'MX 1 5SS=5o3SS3 1 : 1 : 1 


■i 

o 


to r^ 3; to to 1.0 T CO 1 f^ 

10 to to T X Ij — CI Tf CI 
= = = => 0> 32 = (N 1 

<M 5 01 01 5 S Jo 01 

• * . » * 1 » 


•••aqx 


— — I0C30 — COt0 33 ''I '. 

to:OiO'Otcco>rtico • . 


s 


ccooinor^cooocj — Ico 
o = = = ;2 3-. 35 = = CT lo 


W (N (71 •M ■?) CT CO (N 


••■■'qx 1 §5i5S:S??SgS 1 : 1 : 


•< 

09 


^■<3'XJcoQO'f;toTco i— 1 — 

C i_ = S 35 3> 5 3; ! 2 16 

^ T'OCOTr-rcol'^ 
a r'JtJjtN'NtM|cO(7J 


Q 


•"J-OCOt^OOOlS — (N 
00 




5 



- TO r~- — r^ r* ; 

_ _J -^ r^ 00 (t; — c. 



'o ■>!; r^ 00 (t; -* X) — 



'S^ 



^ 






^ 



t^ CO «0 -rr - ,/-: *:j- -7} 



C_ O 'X! -f C3 — -^ Oi 

•r: r: r^ i.'i T cj — o 



— r-^ f^ (f3 '*3 iC -a- c= 
»c r: ro .^ TT cj — -^ 



) 3) w:. C3 O^ ^ ; 



to — r^ ^ 
Ci OJ 3:1 Oi 31 en ; 



-H Qo *?> — po r- re -e 
i-^ "C <c X' := 'T r^ r- 

Ci OS ^. crs Ci ^, Ci Ji 



it: i^ 00 — ' o "O 

^ Cr; C75 -M - 3; » 7>l 

■^ ro rQ T« -r r5 CO rr 

PO "O 'C C*5 ■<J' '^T ro 

ocn3iOoc;::so 

TT p? cc rr* -n-' -r PD -r 
CI f?i ::* CI ci cj :m 



~J — 3 C - 

; O O — OS o 

^' Vl G^ CT d C7 Ci C» 

»0 X CD -^ 

p^ -- x ( - r: — -^ CO 

-^ 31 T — C O X -?» 
CCJIOIOOOOIO 

rr c^ r>tr — tt r; -r 



■— 'X'txi — 350sr— '^ 

031JiC.3JCi010 

CJ d ct CJ c* ^* :7J CN 



eo t^ p? CO 10 X CO ci 

00 x» -JD x> «o to r^ ju 

0305030131010131 



s<:tfiD^;Q 



262 



METEOROLOGY. 



in io CO (O f* (- 



o ?c"y^ o 



O O TO trs 't' CD 

tc r- tc CO cc »o 
c o o o o o 



Ci TT -c (Tt 0^ •<*■ in 00 cr. ic in t- CD 

lit iC lO eC CO CC CD CD cc i^ r- CD *.D 



c^ o o oi o) d c<i r- c^ lo Lt o c^ o 
CD CO — <^ »''t en ^ — ^ r^ 'TJ '?' '^ »o 
r-f-xr-oCfoooor-aoc^r-r-cD 



— C^ G^ -* ^'I!, --^ C^ C>I 






Tf O CD (?J 00 ■- 



•OOi-Ht-C^OliO— 'CO'71'"'O'^C:tD(7300rf — lO — ^-^CJ».r5• 



Xl„(?l ^r-3^ r-lrlC^CO rHr^C^fCO r^^flJOI r-^^(MC^ r^^OJtM .-< 



0)00^— <cDC^00TrocD(?JX)'T-'i^in3^-i 

■— I <— I OJ ?0 p— I — "N C^ I— I .— ' CT CQ r— r 



fOcDOXCOOSiO — r- ??oi 



^ iJ c^ ^ 



o CD rM Oi -^ o ^ 



o S*^'£) Tj-ocD(7]oocoasiC— '^-c^QO^^coOIoO'^oco^t^co^:m-'r- 
■-.— ci'M r-tr-lC^C:^ rlOJ-Tl r-S^Ol i-t(7JCT — .^G^^-' 



METEOROLOGY. 263 



Caracas, July 16, 1858. 

Under date of January 10- I sent you my meteorological registers 
for Colonia Tovar, for seven months ending with the last day of De- 
cember, 1857, besides some other observations on the meteorology of 
that region. 

The inclosed registers, which I send you this time, extend from the 
1st of January to the 5th of June, 1858, for Colonia Tovar, and from 
the 16th to the 30th of June for Caracas. 

On the 6th of June, after having sold my little property, I left 
Colonia Tovar, the place where I had lived for more than four years, 
and moved to Caracas. I am very sorry to say that on this journey, 
in endeavoring to measure some of the highest points of the difficult 
and dangerous mountain road, the barometer was accidentally broken, 
and hence the barometrical observations end with the 5th of June. 

In February last I attempted to make a complete set of half-Jiourly 
barometrical observations, but after proceeding with this task for 
seven days I was compelled to leave off for want of time. The pres- 
sure of business at present also prevents me from sending anything 
more on meteorology this time. 

A. FENDLEP 



264 



METEOROLOGY. 











.... 






























O — 00 » ^ "^ 'f' ■^ "5 






















m 






1 2 S==== ^ ^ S 














. . ci a cs c3 « d. 






















a 












S 






«3 t0t0-0'0--itfl «3ls 








« 






S S5===== S3 
















=-■ H r-=HH-E-! H H t" 
















in 


■D 












T'OT'^'TO>0C0^O^T'=3''r'^^'0»0OiO»^Oi0O^^'^OO^rT 




' 










s. 






T 






-a 






















■ -3u-)c!'?im^in»35i(^i^tr>-j3'30'Oioir:?OTOt^r~inr-r~ira'»x»ooio 








• 


XI 






(OiOOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOiOU^iOOU^OOi^'OtOOO 


• 


«3 


^^ 


a 




cC 






S 






(M 










s 


ii 






















































OJCoror^w — :oa)or^r^oocjD'»>oc^oi'?JC?'3-;Dn'OJ35'=rooica— 'C^QO 














" 


iO'^o-t*ioOT'q'-^-^'<r'^'^*^T-^^ooiOooio^'^*o^TOiO'^ 


o 


=n 




0. 










lO 








J 














n 














ja 














>i 




























Q 








: 








rMvc— 'COtjJiorQf^cjir^^o 



QOtDt- "TfO— '— 'C0:0' 



lOotOiooiO'O'^'COi-OurjibiO'^oiCihuviooiO'OiOiOiOiO'OiO'rtio 












ic--o-**''rf'?Doo— <— 'crj— ^rNC? 



iOc^roioin'*o-5 — cici-- 



COCDCOCOCOtOCOtOCDOCD^^tDCOiOOtOCDCOCDCO^^OOCO^CDtO 



'-Oc^'-o':j'^iOcorooorr>ooo5-^ait^'^"^to3or^cocD:oc*^c)*'C*:'»oco 



Tf 'ji TT X! o X) tn • 



) it; 03 r- 00 "» f^ x* •- ■" ^ !"• ~ i^ 



lOO-^t0T0O*>O'^J 






jaiciXjr-tor-u^^^i 



a„ x> N r- 7J ^- i^ O) -r^ 00 .-• I ' r- r- -o uj 'r^ ™ ''"^ "» '^» 3? i; ii? :5 15 C: 12 l£; 'J: tr ' ^ 
Cio>3)ci3>da5aic^333>osai0iaicsaiaiaj0i33i:naic:icri0i05ciai0i -^ 



^1 



CDa)-tirrrJOO=!0000-*'OOOl?^^'N<D'^COOJaO(DQOCDXlCJXiX)0) 






B * 



METEOROLOGY. 



265 



•a 
1 




•ao.iod; 


ffl 


i l" 




o 




o 




: :* 


-1- 


jei 




(N 


;*" 








•uojiaajiy 


tj 


: .5: 


^' 


^ 


: :^ 


&S 




^ 




: ;& 






•aojoj 


































•noiiaajiQ 


































■i 


•aojo^ 




















<N 














•aoiiaaJfa 




















^ 














•a 

3 
O 


05 


•rf 


































•illDOlOA 




























-HlSI -.191 

CO (n (Tl 




3 

o 
o 




























1^ 


a a 

CD XII 




•junouiv 


OO =:03n-l =— i^OCOO 0= CT ffl3 = 3> Oi 00?3 




•3 
12 








' 




u 
2 
Z 








tt,-s 

tfiS 






Uiii 

St "3 CD SB'S 


•XjiaoioA. 


(N(N CtOiOiSiOl (S-i(M(NC»(N-"(N91triCM<N!NC<nr3CO ClOtCJOlCJ 


3 
o 




i L 


^ 
2 


: : a : :w : : 
a a tc : :,'^ : : 
oiijj .«! :^=« : : 




a 
a-/ 




at 




^'^^'s 


a 


•junouiY 


OO sif 'f =>s> ooiMost^occ mci t- oonosi t~ ot^ 


■< 


•o 

5 




If '• .H." 






1 














K a = s s a 


•/(IP0I8A 




'-> OiejOJOJlN rt-KDO? 








(N * P5 CI n (?) ^'m (N 


o3 

s 
o 
O 




■i i^ 


Z 


2 


2 


' § 


• "sia 
zaa 










•t 


^ 

J 


■•••'« 

!3>a^V 
oa ? M P ? 


•junomv 


r-i(N TC^inCTra r-i!N-Hrrooo oo o ci — !=«s m <oao 


« 


•a 




•J 'Jo 




ri — — 






















^ 60 

'ii 




2^ -■- 




O "T (?» 




























CO 


i(N CO -0 

> 




« 


>r 


<x 


o 


r-i-H- 


cc t 


1 -.; 




■" 


;:Uc: 


5 


01 O) c 





266 



METEOROLOGY. 





en 


•gojo^i 


C! OJ <D(7) 




(?!(?! 










•UOIJOdJtQ 


^>' ^'^ ^>"^ 








■3D40J 














•UOIlDSJtQ 
















•ODJOJ 














■uoijoajiQ 














3 
o 

o 


02 


■a 

c 

5 














•XiiaoioA 














a 
















•junouiv 


(N«5 r-i-l U- 


^ 


5 




IS 


c 














■XjpoiBA 


c" J (H 5)' 5? (D -H OJ 








3 






1^ (^ 


»7J 






•junouiy 


10 CD t^ U^ t^ 00 




1-- 




[5 


j3 : 












•XiiooiaA 


(Tl (M (TJ j H 






— 


~ 


3 

c 



^'si' y 


: 








■qunoiuy 


00 00 '^ 10 .-i ^ 


2 




CO 




. 

i 








V 








i-i, 


• S i 

. —1 Q. 

;CJ to 



















into r^ 
.oioi 

00 

s . 

3 


;^ 


a 


? 


n 


c 




c 





METEOROLOGY, 



267 








00 

JC 

2 




'' 














1 

s 

B 

O 

o. 

a 










V 

S 

o 

u 
.= 


.a 


el 
1 


H'So^?SisS:SS?:H3^^§S?S?SS?5?^ss§? 


-.-D 
1 






S 
p. 


SigSolSS3S5SSgg3RSgSsSSgSSSSS3S 




SS?SSgSSSSSSSo^5:S?KS??^?5??:;; 


n 


to 


.a 

.2 

a 








Tliermoiiielcr in open air. 




«oo5^ni^ocof-c^?3not~oi-aooo««r-t-p-r-r-«« 


o 






ol 


S5iS3SS53SSSSS?3Soa3S18SSSoS?SSSS 


to 


m 
O 




53SSSS2S3S33SSSSSS32§gSSSSSS 


-< 


^SS3SSSSSSSSSgSSS3SSSK:SS^3S:H:S 




CO 


a 

e 
c 


-3 
« 
.s 

2 

Id 

u 

s 
o 
5 

'S 

a 




00 TO o CO ^ in m a> o 00 • 














• - - . ^r- iri 
in o 








ei 


CO ^cocDco rococo ;0 . 














• • • I • to 3 1 .' 








« - 

^>nS^-«r>f5CO'<*'r30f^QO • 
















i 

• 






O to = 00 ■»• «o I^ •3< OO X • 

c>o^-t*f:^cnaiC20(^ • 
o o _ o ooj roo> o 05 . 

at oi CI oi m bi b\ (^ ct bt '• 














CO o 

; [ I ; ' =2 5 

'• '. . . 'nTi 

..... 01 (M 




S 
■i 
1- 


23.992 

24.012 

24.016 

24.018 

24.02-J 

24.018 

23.980 

.966 

.990 

.977 

4 














: : : : jsi 

* . '. . r? -n' 
: ; ; ; ; Cl (TJ 








23.980 

24.020 

23.998 

24.013 

24 035 

24. 00 J 

23 975 

.972 

.980 

.978 
















S3 










^ 
s 




— S<M'<T>0-«Sl-003»0 — <: 
00 

^ .a 


'■ 


■^ 


•- 


IC 


1^ X 3J = 


m 


O) CO -^ »n to t^ 
CN <H Ol O) (N Oi 


00 





268 



METEOROLOGY. 



•a 

a 
<c 

■a 
"v 

•d 

c 




•aoioj 


at oi a> St s) a 


<N 






-- : 




r^^ 


Tl 


IM 






Q\Ot ' 0) CI 


o 






•UOIJDOJIfl 


^■^x-^> 


i~ 


^ : 




^ \ 




^^^ 


^ 






^' 


^ :^ 


i^ 




01 


•aojoj 






































•uoijoajiQ 








































•aojoj 




■ Ho ; 

• at . 






























i - 


•UOIlDajIQ 
































NW... 

Extraor- 
dinarily 
dry. 


3 
O 

5 




•a 
a 

i2 
































a : a 


•;(j!oo[aA 
























- : 












3 
O 

O 
























Vi 








c 
c 

r 

r. 


: o 


•junouiy 


■^Or^o^o CQ o r- (N 03000 ira .-( o o — 1 1^ "r oo o .-h 


CI 


•a 

c 

S 














g 
















• .^ 




5? % \ 


■XipoiaA 


(M -OKMSlfN 0<5lOI{?l(M 


!N(MOJ^ rt -1 


c» CI cTcj at (N Sf c) d 


9 
O 

o 


cr 




i 
y 


cc 


'.Z£. 

ancc 


GQ 


V 


oiooj 
virhv 




50 


z 




■A 'fib. 


2 




•luiiouiv 


TTO'^ojxc^ Oii^ooi ooojQOOim o en 00 = = = 00 3J ^a- m 
























"1 "t 5 






• : •'^ 


zs : 




•Ap.J19A 


Oi '• '; 0) M 






<J»-H 






"(N OJ 






Jo».-i 






3 

o 
O 


'/ 


: 'oi-c 

: ci-ia 














T3 










'7 


5 : 




•lunouiY 


inrlOOOJ-H OO'J'CN OOtOOm O O— i=>r-io«5tO(N o 


c 


o tc 












* '. 
























"c .5 

a.. = 
E.S 






'■.'it 


































1 

C 


OO 


* 


Stt 


5 ^ 


• a 


)o 


i o 


'C 


jcoti 




1 t£ 


> t- 


a 


3 


< CI CIS" 




s; 


iS 





METEOROLOGY. 



269 











: : : : : 


: : : : : 


« J 1 ■'. 


i : : : : 
S5 : I : : 






z" : z' : : 


71 


^ii i : 


ootei s«o) ■ • 


slx^i^ : : 


X o r- 


1 


r- 


JJ M 1 


"' : : i : 


8 


OO-H « 


GO 






g£5 S 


j^ 





270 



METEOROLOGY. 









W o 














^ o £ is 3 










s E <i e| 










_: c3 **■ f^ • 










« 7, ^ oW 






E 














S d 5 = S 






» 










d f -g 1^ 










i i 2 =S 










H Eh R O 












•o 
























c' 






c- 


















^ 


OJ 




- 




1 






m 
























ioir5if;ir3ir3ioo»o«3if^co»omiOin»OiCOOcooiOtO»oeoiOi04r3u:o'0 




t-" 


n 1 


















(>J 




























,:; 




-1- 


■«• 






















< 






















5 




r- 


















^ 




;u 








Ch 


ji 


m 


















"Z 


g 










.2 


b 








^* 


O) 








» 








-< 








::::::::::::::•..:::::■:::::::: : : 












a 


r-c^mo = r-r-r-omc^ocTOt~ocoroe>:i-c<50i^r-(Nomot~t~r-o 


(n j c» 






-JD 1 00 


^ 




^ 


ir5.oinio«oininnO!0>n'OiOOioioioioiotoiOu;cotDij2ioco-x;toco«s 


s 1 ■" 




c 
a 
c 






















S 




^ 


05 > 




c 


























:- 




m 






















S 








«' 


E 

c 






oiooioastoastotooTOtctcxoffiirjiomtOis^ototoccustou^i-u^tou: 


rr 
















£ 




at 




2 
















s 




r> 


to 






■< 












f- 












■T3 


^ 












a 


mi.-:ifiOiO>Oio«5toiiiO!aiOiO..:ioira<o<Oasu-;ir5if:u-ioioi-j3mtoo 








ts 


s 










« 






















s 










2 










' 




CM 






























CD 


<! 








C 


H 


















1 


















to T 














£ 




p: 










'>J r^ 






OJ 




r>i ci 












r' 


u 




















.H." 


t; 






rs 








>-' 






2i 




(U 










to 


_^ 






















■< 






OJ 




















ff) 






* 


i-i<jic-5^ictot^a)c»o-j(r)co'*'io<or~oooso-j(NWwicxir-ooa!0-i • 








a 




i. i i 






a 




"i ^ ^ 










s 









METEOROLOGY. 



271 



•UOnOOJIQ 



c! Qi at 



: ■ ^ •: 

^ J -= s: 

2 S Z » 



^ ^ 



•aaioj 



•uoijoaJifl 



•,(jpo(3A 



CIO o o in «0"3" ciooo o 



= o o> 



•XipopA 






SS 



rSSSS 



ooicinainataiaiototOiaioKucnaiai oi -^ (?) -^ ci ci m ci ii 



:a& -^ 



- . - -S •'^ H H -"^iSiv; . 

IK ^ CC 2 02 Z to 2 Oi M CO 02 7a 32 H X; 2 a 02 CTJ 2 7. V ffc 02 2 OQ 



C5 O ^- C3 00 00 00 C2 00 00 r* C5 O 1^00 o o o 



•XlpO[3A 



33 02 



SS * IS 



Ol (N fl « M O) (N 



02 02 2 2 2 s: 73 



= t: S a:S 



<N (M r^ —l-H 



^ ^ > feH 

tn ra !> 02X1 



■— O O O CO ClOCT Ol^ <N UT -^ oco t- o o 



kl 


r- 


p.-^ 


lO 


^" 


^M 
















o 


o 


-• 


1^00 


" 


•<r 


□. 




^ 












£:' 


~ 


c 


a 




s 


;> 


a =^ 


a 
o 


rt 


s 


a. 
























n 






< 


t~- 




to 00 







rt c< n ^ tn <ot~ao c. c; ^ ci t-3 -ro to t^ oo 



79 



2/1 



METEOROLOGY. 



C» (?» (N rt O) CI OJ 



^ ^ ^^^rA 



CO OQ CO 



55«^ 



•uoijooJig 



•X)!.io|3A 



o M" r-c o o -"i" m O t^ (N CO fO 






•a 
. w 



4 S BSSSSSSSS^ 



« OJ rilN(N(H01f;«OJOI5l 



"; a a H a a a wj H 'J 



J S 



•Xip()io,\ 



O -^ CD 30 O 00 CO O t^ C5 



(MOJOf i-l<M 



>-o 

!K X p: CO to 



!tN — CJ — (N 






r3 (N <N e^ (N (N -v in to o 



ss 



■ CO -I 
•(NO 



ES 



► TT "^ .2 



-^lOcor^oooiis.— I 



.— oi<M <?4 c^ CT(M(?J{7J;:^:ncq;*3 ^ 



METEOROLOGY. 



273 





JS 

a 




Thunder, very faint and 
of short duration. 


■am 








s 

i 


3 
Si 

i 




in lO »rt »0 0*00 ^0400 IQ »o 


m-«"^'r«j'«"SiOinu5ioioIoo 


Si 

CO 


■.r 
in 


•2 

in 


0» 


-^ HOI ..lot 

o>3sGO^aDr^QO;DaoQo03r*oaoao-rfoo35PJOiO^— iooicDos35 ou 31 
oioiooioiniO'Oioio>om«3mu5u3ioirteoioto<oto!omS5 vSio inin 


in 



in 




H9 "tet 
m Oi ID 10 to irt »rt in ■*»' « ■<J" kO CO «5 tcio -^ — ' CO ,-^ CD -^ CO to CO CS t* (D 

ioo»i5o»r5»o»oio»«»n'f^>oioiotoio»i0>oioirs»oo»rt»niooiooo»o 


CO 



m 














Thermometer in open air. 


a 
a 


oot^coooor^ooMt^r^ior^ot^oor^cot^r^oocoi'-rorsoo co 


r^ 




,-i — — < — CT — ' Ci w — • 00 OS ^ ^I CT 0* C) C5 " ^ C) -- 00 0* P^ 

C0C0CDC0CDCDC0C0OC0C0i0mc0C0C0c0C0C0»0C0C5CDC0-.DC0C0COl0CO Ot 

00 




CO 






03)Ooo-'OOcomcoocot^oo3!05»rS'ioir3co>nocri"t^o> — cnt~r~ 

CO»^COCOCOCOOO'COCO».'^OiOOOiO»r5040iniO>OOOiOCO»r5iOtn 


m 

i 


03 






eoOJ^QOtncooocc^^-^in— '•v^OiCJOCDc^coQor^aciftior^cocoo'r 

CO CO CD CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CC CD CO CO CD CO r» CO f^ CO CD CC CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 


2 


in 

CO 



■as 




t^cJOOcDoooar^ooooosOiaooif^oooQOoiooj-oosocjOiot^r-os cm 

lOCDiOtOir3»OiOCOlOCD»nif3 0»0"^»r3CO»n*0»OlOCOOCDiC»OCOCOUl»0 CO 






1 
1 


•a 

Si 

c; 

■5 

i 

V 

S3 




COIN— 't?*o*:^o<»C505(Noo--(?io}oo5a>osor*Oi— '—((N^OJocs * 

CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 10 lO to CO CD CO CD CO CO CD 4C 40 »Q CO »r: »0 CO CD CO CO CO S »h 






c« 


t^o»o^s'»i^coiO'0^v^Tr^»r5conor^»ncocoiocoTicirtr>-r^'rr^'3« I 

CO«CC«COCOCDCDCOCOCOCDCDCOCOCOCOCCCDCOtoScO!OCOCobcOCOCO 








oi^HC/aoooa>oooot^t^t^osoiwoo5co05r^oot^f-r»GOCiC50Q)oxi • 
ITS CO »o lo lo tcirj lO »r3 »o to ic CO in »o »o 10 *o in 10 »o CD CO CO 10 






X 




.972 
998 
.972 
.984 
.968 
982 
.960 
.942 
.946 
935 
920 
910 
943 
978 
980 
950 
959 
973 
958 
944 
924 
954 

970 
942 
960 
9 
994 
942 
918 

733 


00 

en 


CD 


o< 1 


(M 


2 


982 
948 
.950 
.984 
968 
958 
.958 
934 
939 
936 
916 
908 
942 
972 
992 
970 
966 
986 
985 
968 
900 

948 
950 
962 
938 
964 
986 
990 
950 
920 


CO 


in 


CI 


" 


s 


'co- 
in 






■n 


lO 




s 


'^ 


S 






Q 




r^tHC^-^mcOC^OOOOrHCJCOTrincDt^QOOO— <OI^T«r!COr^QOa30 

S3.- 

Q. 
< 







1 



18 



274 



METEOROLOGY. 



•a 

a 
tc 

•a 

•S 

a 


s 

O! 


•9DJOJ 






(M 




•■^ 






•«0J5I 




'"' 








*"* 


> *-« 


'^ 


OJ 


-• 


•UOIlDaJIQ 


^ 

M 




02 




aiai 




CO . 2ai S-n 




•80JOJ 






































•uoijoajiQ 






































s 

■i 


■aDJO,i 






































•uoposjig 






































■a 

3 

o 
O 


OS 


s 

2 






































•XjiDoiaA 






































3 






































•junomy 


oi n n — t-(-<o t-i-i'» OS cj—i co i'w <* co 


0< 


•S 

c 


tl 


s 


S g 


s 


> 

c 




S 


S 




S 


fflSSi! 


ss's 


•XijooiaA 


C^n CJ OJ -< <?» OJ CiOi -H,-j-H-t-(i-lrt(N Ol-H clToT >-l O) (M rH 3) (JJ OJ 


£ 

3 




a 


cc 


H : 

m ai IX. 


XT. 


cr 


^ : : 

=°a : , 

% 03 M &• 


y 


• •0 • 


or 




•Wk" 
.ccz 




'a 


•junouiy 


CO 00 05 00 Oi oi 05 OS 01 <x>ci ;o i^ t^ a> 


-< 
1^ 


•T3 

c 

5 


s 


sis 


ij 


JS 




Cirr.... 
Cirr.... 

Cirr . . . 
M., H. 
M.,H. 

lU 




'tl 




■s 


•XjpoisA 


5? tN (N SToo SftN rt (N rH 


5)0J OKNrt C] CT-h5}^ o^ph 


« 


3 




' 


: "^•^fc 


a" 


■fc 

H2 


or 


! CO 


'^ 


& 


& 


or 


or 


ft 




■^ 


H5 &. 


^ 




CO 


•lunomv 


01 w OJ to to t~o»inco iu^(N 1.-3 r^in n t-00 00 


e 

■3 


be 
o.S 


oi — ' 


















■ s' 5 

■ do. 















c 


S E 
00' -< 


















; do. 

'.0 

•— ■ (TJ 


















1 

IS 




L 


OJ c 


) ■« 


ir 


3 


tc 


> t»a 


>o 


>c 




2 


c 


1 ^ 


r It 


i«: 


) r- a 


50 


1 c 




5 



METEOROLOGY. 



275 



4:«c 


-<rH-. at W 






i i i i : :^ • ^ 

P .06 oooaoooQ ? P 






























: : : : 












: : : : 












: : : : 
: :^ ! 


is i 










I |«c»«rar J 










: : : : 

: :a ' 

. .OQOQ 


rim '. 










OCIiO^i-^OO *r3 Cfl 




00 


ssss: 


ss:i s 


:s 








ot e« 91 o o o o) o c< 






! ^ 1 1 

: : : : 

: : •" ; 

•KB : 


: ':^ i 

: :<» Ed 

003 QQ Kl 


OS 








»0001f-0»OS o o> 




GO 


M., M . 


H 

M., H. 

M 

Fog . . . 








i i-^ 


jeiS'oi J 










\lil 












-<o>(ri8oema) ^o o 


5 


iri 


i : : : 


*5!io'p'm*. 

1.35 p. in. 
4.20 p. m.. 










iris: 

i is =•= 
: : d?, d 

. . TT O — 


S i 

D. • 

°. : 








g^Sili^g 


?s§ s 


R 


1 


B 

s 





^&: 



« C3 



276 



METEOROLOGY. 
















I?) 


in 








m 


t~ 


01 










in 


CO 


(N 


in 












J 



'kv 






i^osooi>ojaioo-^ocDi^o^Oioosa3CO'*i^t^oicio>r-'«**oscoooooaiOi 












CO CO CO CO ^ CD CO CO CO CO S CO COCOCOCOCOCOCCCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCDCOCOCO 



r^OOOOODOr-OOlOl— 'QO^OO— <— 'OSl>OOOCOQOr^l^OSOOQOCOCftCT> 
OC0C0U0l0CO^C0Oi0CDtOC0COCOC0C0l0O^C0U?>OOi0U0U?OU^U?O 



■co'^ooO'Dr— frjOTr'coo)moooo(3^0'^fNGOcoco'^o(MOco'9* 
)3:jcoooao3005cDCT!ast--coiotor-r--t^r*r-t-STj'— <r*r-oioooQOt— 

)C^03^0)0)00^03)C3QlS30iO^O>OC20)0)0300)0)0)OOOC)03 



OOCCOCIOOOJiOOJ^fM'^CDOf?JO*^CO'X)-?''^irJCOCDCDCOCOfM'3"0 

^o:D^-TJ•cD^--t■•-^-cDl■-053llO?0':r'9•^-'CO^-^-^-oOGO^-coooolooOlco^o 



fO-^o^Trooozncocooooooorrj 
_^-Saoco*or"-GOcD:or-aiair-c^Tr^ 



-^ - _ - _ - ..- .. ... ^COOTOOOCDCOO-^TroOCOOO 



f-<(rJc^^ocor-oooso^(rjc^Tr»f^cor^ooa>Of-icicoTrtccor-a)050'-* 



METEOROLOGY. 



277 



•3DJ0^ 



a* Qt at Bi 



. o >> : 



•aojoj 



•UOTJ09JIQ 



•aojo^ 



•jfjpoiaA 



(2^ 



•junouiy 



Gi:^ c o r* o> ci TO ^ n c^ n ot^cso 0{Neo:^o©j o 40c*3 



SS 6^fc< :SSSaSS 



g g S 



•XjpoiaA 



iH<N(DCT(N(N(H(N(N(?l(J)(N<n(r«-HO)(N(rj (NQJ0<(MH(M(M(ri0»O» 



H(aa«?6g cW 



HW HaawHia 



W/J H a 72 a Oi « !K Z 32 03 H iX! cj OJ 15 « CO Oi aa COIK '/) M CC rx W OJ 63 M 



O 05 O O OJ :0 lO ;D CO CO OO 03 03 00 Ol O lO c^ r^ 03 00 CO to 



SS S :Sfei§j S S g 



■Xiiooiayv 



rHO 


C!C 


; <M C>(M 


OJ 


5S 


CI 




to 


:&• 


5oa 


^' 


K 


^ 



(D CN CM Ol C^ (TJ 0» -H 



02 IK CO W 



a H H M la '■'■; a 
03 to oi a CO H CO m 



•junouiy 



OOOS OOOOOOtO CO CO C<3 05 0> lO OS O OO O lO 05 00 O O 00 (N 



CO -^ (M O lO 
CO CO ^ OS 05 



ssss 



0.5 

" s 

S.3 

•- M 

El 0) 



S 5 S : S 

ddas d 

l.-^ ift o To 

ol o -H n.-^ 

CO C» "3* OS to 



:= :s 

So s « 



r-io» co-fl-iotot^oo OS o r-( oj co-^oo t~oooso — c-icp 2;s 



278 



METEOROLOGY. 



■a 

0) 

c 
« 

13 
1. 

■a 

a 


fa 


•9OJ0J 
























•uoipajjQ 






















•90J0J 




















•uoiioajiQ 






















•8DJ0J 




















•U0IlD9J!a 




















•a 

3 
O 

O 




c 

i2 








►J 












•XIT0019A 








(N 








9 

o 

o 








& 




OQ 




> 


•junocuv 


o o>o ooo 


2 


CD 


a 

fa 

(7) 


i2 




















•ifjpoi9A 


(N 


« c^Sfoj 






3 
o 

o 




6. 






fc 
y 








•junoiuy 


Ol O CX) OOSO) 




00 


■J 


-a 

5 














•XIP0I9A 


















s 
o 
O 


or 


133 
















•junomv 


OS O O OCO Oi 


CI 


t-* 


'3 


<ii.S 






o . 
•■^. c. 

.TT OO 


do. 

■CO T 






S .3 






do. 


SS 
dd 

CO lO 

toco 








( 


2 
■a 


1 


1 


g 


g 


r 


? 




1 




c 
c 





METEOROLOGY. 



•^ 



i 
I 


a 






















1 


3 
XI 


as 


. ir: OS Tf c* o 








at 


„ too 3 o o 
tnco ©toco 










„ oo COCOO- -^ 
mm o -r m 










OS 




















E 

OJ 








































Thermometer in open air. 


c 

1 


57.7 
60.3 
60.7 
60.0 
58.3 


297.0 
59.4 


OS 


* m m IC >C lO 










t^ Tf -.T OO (M 

(OCO COCO CO 










„ aD05C!sr~t~ 
0*0 lO m tn 








1 
S 
£ 

« 

i 
1 


•a 

1 

s 
2 

V 

E 
o 
E 
o 

.s 


OS 


„ oooooos 

•OCOCOlOiO 








£ 
(N 


„ OS n •* L~ -H 

° tOIOCOCOCO 






- 


■i 


- osoor-cor~ 
" inmo mm 






.c 
•2P 

B 


b 


24.010 

23.998 

.964 

.958 

.970 








£ 


23.988 
.989 
.966 
.950 
.952 








£ 


23.970 

24.008 

23.974 

.960 

.954 

Baromete 












od 

! 


<^ 




•^ 


li- 


ef 


s 
c 


c 
1 





JZ > 



oiosooaoaat^oooiOioioor^r^r^oo 
cococo^^cococococococococDco 



010iOO^0iOCDI^0S00CD3lC0O 
;DCOt^t^£**COr*O^OtOCOCDCO^r* 



ior^ootDr^tor^triioyDh-t*>rtcoto 

tDCDCOCO!O^DCOCOSOCtJ!OCOCDCDtO 



CO 
CO J 



coocoi>c^Ciior^r^cof-t^cooi^ 
"^' '«r ci ?0 CO (7J CT ?:> r: (tJ -^' o o ct -h 



r^t^r^ot>t^r*t*t-c^t^cDco^-t^ 



^ojcoaiOscoi^os^icoiocoTroocD 



oooooaiCDoi05a)c:ioc3Doooi 

t^r»I>i'^l^COCOCDCOCOCCf^COCOCC 



-1 



-. i-^ 



coi^aoaio«-<c4co^ - eot^oooso 



280 



METEOROLOGY. 









CJ • 


(N 


^ 


n 


1 






•aDJOj 




















•U0IJ33JIQ 


^ : •» ^ 


a 






CO . mm 01 








<a 








V 




■aoaoj 






S 






o 








t 


11. 






m 


CT 


•noijoajiQ 




■o 








c 








^ 


















•aojoj 






■i 












t~ 


•UOIlDajIQ 








■a 








B 
















M 




•jCjpoiaA 






S 












o> 


a 
o 
O 




•junouiY 


03 O rH C?J CO 








•a' '• 




















■o 




B • 


























M 


'^ V? .5^ • tH ^ 






oi 




•X}i3oiaA 


(M Ot (N (N OI <N (M 


T3 








3 
O 


iC 


















O 


CJ 


V 








3 
o 


H • • • \"H 








Ho2«ccm2H 


•junowy 


OO) O 00 9> 


























"2 
















•Xi!oo[aA 


(D(N 


t-((M 






S 
■< 


























































3 
o 






>.a 










KM 


aim 




•junouiy 


O t~ f-H xo> 










s 


^ 


^E 








£"3 


o. 


c 








h « 








c 
'3 






OJ 


•0" 


rHrH 












P5 






E 


B 


eS 






<u c 


C3 


c 


<^,:? 






g- tfi 




ts 






















'" 


n 


-Hrt 








-hC« WVO 






o 


















00 a> 






p 


'-' a 

3 








>-> 








1 



















































































































E 


D S 

c 


o • ■ 

.J : : 










(N 




ej ojoxM 










cq 


e 


Station 'y 

E 

E 

E 


•<?• 05 o in lo 


«o 


tticn ai 




i 
















at cf (N 


drJtJl 


oj ct5?o» 


^ 
» 




Ee 




•B. 

63X 


& 




b 


• 'h : 

camai 


in t* r- lo • ao 


o 


'• 05 ooin 


Mid... 
Low... 

Mid.... 
Low... 












o • • 

1 J . : 


CO rH (N<M 


1 (NCO 


0« 


(?) CM j(N 




& 


'E 




: fc 
: " 


3 • 


:h 


: :w : : : 


in i in o Tj- OS • o oocjo 


TT Tf O 


: SSE 

; [8 O.D. 

'. o o o 

cc c^ ^ 

1 in r.< ■>»<' 


r- . in 

1 00-* ■3' 




ddd 
£0'<»'-in- 


: " ^<=^ 

. in ""o 
• r-t in "^ 


: i 

• a 


. in m 




u 


1 


r- 




a 


a 


g 




S 




^^^ 



METE GEOLOGY, 



281 

































































































- 


































































o e e lo o3> 


£ 




• 


i 


1 














« STotO) 01 










1 fi 


a 


u 


H 


cQ : 
u : 










2 S 


o o no 


I^ 

■^ 


00 






















e« j 




« eP :£!ra!r i 












Bi 


w • • 
ro : • 


ei 








S » 


O Ol jl^O 


to 


1"^ 


S* _ B £ 

S S-CT 


10.15a.m., 

mist. 
9.30 p. m.. 
4.50 p. m.. 
7.45 p. m.. 








a. m 

6.5 p. m... 

6.50 p. m.. 
9.10 a.m.. 

5.20 p. m.. 
4.30 p. m.. 
7.30 p. m.. 


Hi : 

oci irj 
o •-. 

o» — oj 








8 




s; 


CO 


3J 

c 


^ 




1 


( 

a 
a. 
S 





282 



METEOROLOGY. 





■^ 




CO 




o 




00 


a> 


r- 




05 




CO 


tr 




UO 


lO 


CO 


CD 


■n 


CO 


in 


CN 


o 


S 3 


o 


o 


o 


O 


o 


o 


o 


■<# 


§ 




















<- 




















••13 II J, 










m 


05 

in 








a 














■* 


CO 






















m 


t^ 
























en 


OT 










h 














CO 


co' 










H« 














OJ 


at 










in 






















•iaqi 


o 


05 


05 


o 


Oi 


o 


Oi ' I 


ca 


lO 


in 


CO 


in 


CO 


03 : : 




n 


o 


CO 


(N 


■^ 


o 


CO • . 




o 






CD5 


t~ 


CO 




S 


o 


o 


o 


cn 


en 




ro '• • 


iC 


^ 






CO 








OJ 






CM 








o 
















••laqi 


^ 


o 


;_, 


^ 


o 


^ 


CT • 


CO 


CD 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO . . 




« 


00 


a 


•^ 


•a* 


en 


Tj> ; I 


a 


o 


o 




DJ 


t^ 


in 


r* 


o 


o 


o 


3> 


a» 


en 


CO . . 


b 


1 






CO 
CM 








H« 
















■^ 
















•iaill 


_, 


^ 


o 


1— t 


•-< 


o» 


CO : : 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CD 


CO 


CO 


03 : : 




<?} 


en 


TP 


t~ 


in 


00 


^ ; I 




o 


o 






I- 






s 


o 




o 


05 


oa 


en 


ca 1 1 


b 


OJ 






CO 
C9 








■* 


















•^ 


_ 


o 


^ 


^ 


Of 


■* * 


•Jaqx 


CO 


s 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CD ; J 




•«< 


o 


(N 


00 


(N 


r- 


CJ • • 


s 








Ol 


r- 


m 




o 


o 


o 


O) 


C5 


3J 


ca 


b 


■^ 






CO 








CO* 


(N 




* 


CM 


* 


* 


-it • 


•iaitl 


^ 


^ 


o 


<N 


^ 


c<> 


Tj< : z 


CO 


CO 


CD 


CO 


CO 


CO 


03 • • 




00 


at 


CO 


CO 


CT 


o 


O • • 




o 








(^ 


CO 


QO 


a 


o 


o 


o 


o 


CD 


en 


en • ; 


c^ 


-3^ 








co' 






CT 








OJ 






CO 










* 








o? 


Oi 


r^ 


_ 


CT 


•* 


rr '. '• 


•iaili 


s 


in 


in 


CO 


CO 


CO 


to . . 




■^ 


OJ 


o 


o 


o 


o 


to '• '• 


a 


o 


CO 




in 


00 


CI 


an 




o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


O • ; 


A 


TT 








• 








at 














-" 
















uaiix 


^_^ 


t^ 


r- 


j5 


ot 


■<1> 


.a< • • 


CO 


m 


in 


CO 


CD 


CO 


03 . . 




CO 


'T 


o 


C7i 


_^ 


T)< 


^^ - • 




s 






in 


CO 




CO 




o 


o 


o 


o 


o 




o 


■< 
















o 


s 










* 


: : 




^ 


CO 


t~ 


Oi 


^ 


Tf 


•»^ . I 


•laqi 


CO 


irj 


in 


in 


CO 


CO 


CO ; ; 


. 


■a- 


^ 


(M 


o 


^ 


at 


O • 


a 




CO 


?- 


CO 


CO 




CO 






C) 


O 


o 


<=> 




o 


•< 


Tj" 














o 


o» 


















* 


* 


* 


* 






•wqi 




s 




in 


o 

CO 


Ol 

CO 


CO • • 
to • ■ 


a 


CO 


o 


o 


•* 


Ol 


00 


00 : • 


T1* 


CO 




in 










o 


o 


o 


o 




o 




•<i 


Tl<' 
















(M 














Ol 
















•jam 


CD 


in 
in 


CO 

in 


S 


m 


in 


S 1 1 




<T? 


c? 


Oi 


00 


c» 


00 


o .• • 


a 


CO 


in 


CO 




(N 


o 




o 


o 


o 


o 


O 


o 


o • • 


•i 


•» 














05 


OJ 
















CO 


'T 


m 


CO 


.- 


CO 


35 • ; 




od 












2 § 
















C3 


s . 












o — 


Q 


!=ixi 












H ?, 






M 
























I 



METEOROLOGY. 

' THE CUMATE OF SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA, BY THOMAS M. LOGAN, M. D. 
Latitude SS'i 3i' 41" N, Longitude 12 1° 27' 44" W. 

As supplementary to the abstract of meteorological observations for 
il8o3, 1854, and 1855, published in the reports of the Smithsonian 
Institution, the accompanying tables for 1856-'57, together with the 
results of the aggregate five years, have been prepared. 

It may not meet the exactions of a rigid science to deduce a positive 
view of the climate from a series of observations extending through 
only five years, still an approximation may now be arrived at that 
"will be sufficiently near to afford a very just appreciation of some of 
the climatic features of this portion of the great valley of the Sacra- 
mento, due allowance being made for irregularities and disturbing 
causes. Owing chiefly to the difficulty of procuring reliable instru- 
ments and proper tables and instructions, the records, which were 
made in various forms and with differing calculations, required re- 
arrangement and tabulation to render them comparable with each 
other. These considerations will be a sufficient apology with those 
who have much experience in arranging statistical tables for a certain 
amount of inaccuracy which has crept into our former publications. 
In the present instance we have used every possible precaution while 
rectifying former errors,* which are herewith specified, that the advan- 
tages already received may be rendered more valuable hereafter. 

BAROMETER. 

The series of barometric observations have not been, in one respect, 
continuous. Had they been conducted with one and the same instru- 
ment doubtless some valuable deductions might have been gathered 
from their analysis ; as it is we can only note some of the most obvious 
■ results. During 1853 the'ordinary ship barometer, (the only one to 
be had then,) which was used, appears to have ranged entirely too 
|low. The readings from this instrument, as well as those which were 
registered from a common open cistern, and a siphon of Gay Lussac, 

• Errata in former ptiblications. — The latitude and longitude of Sacramento are correctly 

given above, and are erroneous in the previous reports. 

1853.— Car. Mean for January, for 29.65 read 29.75 ; annual mean, for 30.01 read 30.02 

inches Therm. Mean maximum, for 800.40 read 800.04; mean minimum, for 49O.00 read 

490.08; mean for October, for 780.00 read 730.00. Winds. SE., total, for 101 read 111. 
. 1854.— Bor. Mean of January, for 29.11 read 30.11; minimum of May, for 29.00 read 
f!29.60; mean minimum, for 29.76 read 29.81; annual mean, for 29.98 read 30.07 inches. 
' Therm. Mean maximum, for 790.54 read 790.29; mean minimum, for 420.72 read 42.73 

Rainy days. March, for 9 read 4. Inches of rain, for 8.25 read 3.25. Annual total of clear 

days, for 223 read 228. Total rainy days, for 60 read 55. 
' 1855. — Bar. Maximum of July, for 29.85 read 30.15; mean maximum, for 30.09 read 30.14 

inches. Dew point. Annual mean, for 470. 52 read 460. 69. 



284 METEOROLOGY, 

were never corrected for temperature. During 1856 and 1857 Green's 
Smithsonian barometer was employed, and its readings reduced to 32° 
Fahrenheit. No correction for altitude was ever made, as the cisterns 
of the various instruments employed were at so small an elevation 
above the level of the sea. Neither was the elastic force of vapor 
applied at the time of the record. This force has been calculated only 
during the past year, according to the rules established by Regnault 
for deriving every degree of it exhibited in the atmosphere from the 
readings of the wet and dry-bulb thermometers. It will be seen that 
it increases directly with the temperature, and amounted during 1857 
to nearly half an inch during midsummer, or one sixty-seventh of the 
entire atmospheric weight. 

The absence of either abrupt or great changes gives indication of 
the tropical feature which the climate possesses. As a general rule 
the atmospheric pressure varies but little, and that through slow and 
long continued movements, rather than in the sudden manner charac- 
teristic of the latitude on the Atlantic coast and elsewhere. Never- 
theless, although the mercurial column rises and falls within very 
restricted limits, yet there are changes, represented it is true by small 
measurements, which occur with wonderful regularity and certainty, 
diurnal movements at fixed hours, as well as annual ones, having 
reference to the position of the sun in the ecliptic. The former, or 
horary oscillations, as revealed on the chart of diurnal barometrical 
curves, present, in a marked degree, the two diurnal maxima and 
minima observed within the tropics; the ante-meridian maximum, at 
about 9 to 10 a. m., being more constant than that at the same period 
post meridian. Without a single exception the pressure is always 
less at 3 p. m., and this has no reference to whether the column stands 
high, as in the cold, or low, as in the hot season. 

The following table, calculated from the horary observations, taken 
once a month during 1857, gives the mean successive hourly range for 
the year. The signs -|- and — denote the range of each hour above 
or below the mean of the twenty-four hours. 



METEOROLOGY. 



285 



a 


:::: r t :::!::::::::::::: : 




o 


CI 

E 

a 


+ +1 i+i 1 






B 


iiiiii^iiiieeiiiiisiiiii 






+ +1+ +1 1 


1 

S 
5 


iiiislsiiiiisiiiiiiiiiii 




'rr 




E 

a 

a: 


giisiiiiiiiseigiegseiisi 




o 


+ +1 1 


a 
s 

< 


iiisissiiiiiiliiiiiiiiil 


2 


in 

s 


1 1+ + 




iiiiiiiisiiiisesiiseeisi 


to 


o 


+ +1 1 


c» 

0) 

E 

a 
"1 


iiiiiiisieseiiiiiiiiisii 


v: 


00 

B 


+ +1 1+ +1 1 


a 


isiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiisisii 


r3 


o 


1 1+ + 


B. 

< 


ii§=iiisisBiiiiisiiiisei 




in 

s 


+ +1 1 


cd 


igiiiiiiiiiiiiSiiiiigiis 


CO 

c 


lO 
O 


1 1+ + 


5 


sssgiiirsiisiiiiiisiiiii 


5 


05 

o 


+ +1 1 


3 


liiiiieiiiiiiiiiiiiiseee 




in 


+ +1 1+ + 


3 
O 


£ £ 5 S = ; £ £ £ S £ £ £ E E £ E S E E E E E S 
a a <i a a S 6.0.6.0.0.0.0.6.6.6.6.0.^ a a a a a 




i 



286 



METEOROLOGY. 



The mean successive daily range frequently, in summer, does not 
amount to more than the ninety-four thousandth part of an inch. The 
following calculation from the readings of the Smithsonian barometer 
during the last two years substantiates, this fact. 



Barometer. 


Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


April. 


May. 


June. 


July. 


Aug. 


Sept. 


Oct. 


Nov. 


Dec. 


Year. 


Mean, ISfiB 


.130 


.114 


.116 


.114 


.056 


.091 


.066 


.070 


.078 


.088 


.103 


.160 


099 






Mean, 1857 


.110 


.126 


.101 


.071 


.109 


.062 


.046 


.059 


.057 


.075 


.110 


.143 


089 






Mean for 2 years 


.120 


.120 


.109 


.093 


.083 


.097 


.056 


.065 


.068 


.082 


.107 


.152 .094 



The mean difference of the successive months above or below the 
annual average of the five years, as can readily be calculated from the 
data furnished^ does not amount to more than one-sixteenth of an 
iuch. Between the highest mean mensual mean and the lowest a 
fraction over one-fifth of an inch is found. The extreme ranges 
observed during the month are also limited, as may be seen in the sub- 
joined table for 1857, wherein is also revealed the annual tide shown 
in the chart of curves ; gradually descending as the sun approaches the 
northern tropic, and ascending as he returns towards the southern.* 



January 0.633 

February 0.713 

March 0.571 

April 0.427 

May -. 0.433 

June 0.404 



July 0.349 

August 0.401 

September 0.411 

October 0.526 

November 0.590 

December 0.641 



The extreme annual ranges are also small. During 1853 the maxi- 
mum height of the barometer occurred in November and December, 
and read 28.980, giving the difference as the extreme annual range of 
1.460 inch. This, however, is the result of an extreme minimum, 
never before nor since observed. A more reliable and the next lowest 
minimum was 29.380 inches, observed with G-ay Lussac's siphon ba- 
rometer on the morning, 1st January, 1855, before daylight, during 
a strong gale from the SE. The greatest mensual range was also 
observed in the same month, the maximum for the year having 
reached 30.410 inches in the same month, and giving a difierence of 
1.030 inch for the month as well as for the year The lowest read- 
ing for the same year was 29.569 inches on the 19th September. The 
extreme annual range was therefore 1.050 inch. These instances of 
extreme range are very rare, and must be regarded as exceptional. 
The extreme range for 1854 was only 0.850, and that of 1857 but 
0.783 inch. During the rainy season northerly winds always deter- 
mine the greatest elevation, and southerly the greatest depression of 
the mercurial column. This rule is not so constant during the dry 
season. 

* The mean for July of the series is higher than that of June, in consequence of some 
peculiar disturbing causes in June, 1853, which year should be regarded as exceptional, and 
which may in part be attributable to a defective instrument. 



METEOROLOGY. 



287 



The mean annual atmospheric pressure is put down at 30.006 
nches. This has been obtained from the mensual means derived from 
he three daily readings. The diurnal mean calculated from the 
lourly observations presents ^he following differences, which, if ap- 
)lied^ would give the absolute mean for each month. 



Date. 


BAROMETEH. 




Daily mean. 


Hourly mean. 


Difference. 


1857. 
January 22 


30.233 
30.018 
30. 139 
29. 948 
30. 007 
29.889 
29. 856 
29. 905 

29. 922 
29.986 
30.225 

30. 155 


30. 237 
29.976 
30. 172 
29.932 
30. 031 
29.879 
29. 855 
29.927 
29.908 
29.969 
30. 203 
30. 120 


+0. 004 
01'' 


February 23 


March 23 


+0. 033 
016 


April 29 


May 22 


+0. 024 
010 


June 22 


July 22 


001 


August 28 


+0.022 
— 0. 014 


September 23 


October 21 


— 0. 017 


November 27 


—0. 022 


December 23..^ 


— 0. 035 






Mean difference ....... 






0. 020 











It will be observed, on referring to the diurnal as well as annual 
curves, that while each curve varies there is still, due allowance being 
made for disturbing causes, a very apparent similarity, the evidence 
of some regular moving influence, going and coming, present at one 
season, absent at another, and returning again, and so on. These 
phenomena bear the closest analogy with those observed at Algiers, 
Oran, and other localities on the southern shores of the Mediterranean, 
as established by A. Mitchell, A. M., M. D.* 

THERMOMETER. 

Like the barometer the thermometer reveals also some features of a 
tropical rather than the temperate climate, to which latitudinally Sac- 
ramento appertains. The mean monthly and annual temperatures, 
as seen in the accompanying tables, are calculated, like those of the 
barometer, from the daily observations made at 7 a. m., 2 p. m., and 
9 p. m. This arithmetical mean is found to differ occasionally from 
that obtained from the thermometrograph during the last two years. 
The minimum temperature, as seen from the curves projected in the 
chart of hourly observations, occurs between 4 and 5 a. m., and the 
maximum about 3 p. m. Consequently the mean deduced from the 
latter is generally minus that of the former. The following table 
gives the correction to be applied in order to obtain the absolute mean: 

* British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, No. xxxiii, 1856. 



288 



METEOROLOGY. 



Date. 



1857. 

January 22 

February 23 

March 23 

April 29 

May 22 i 

June 22 

July 22 

August 28 

September 23 ... 

October 21 

November 27 

December 23 . .. 



Sum . 
Mean 



TIIERMOMETEB. 



Daily mean. 



48.00 
54.00 
52.00 
62.66 

63. 66 
70.66 
77.00 
66.33 

64. 00 
59.00 
52.66 
43.33 



FTourly mean. 



48.50 
53.75 
50.38 
61.88 
62. 46 
69.83 
75.23 
65.21 
64.08 
58.50 
53.58 
43.50 



Difference. 



+0.50 
—0.25 
—1.62 
—0.78 
—1.20 
—0. 83 
— 1.77 
—1. 12 
+0.08 
—0.50 
+0.92 
+0. 17 

9.74 



0.81 



As this correction is deduced from the difference between the obser- 
vations of a single isolated day in each month of the year, due caution 
and allowance for variation of seasons and other disturbing causes 
must be exercised. For this reason we have not applied the correction 
to our tables, but purpose prosecuting the series of hourly observa- 
tions ; and with a view to uniformity hereafter will adopt the term 
days, commencing at 10 p. m.s mean time, Gottingen, on the Friday 
preceding the last Saturdays of February, May, August, and Novem- 
ber, and on the Wednesdays nearest the 21st of each of the other 
months. Another and most important object in this connexion will 
be the determination of the hours of mean temperature. As will be 
seen in the table subjoined, the measures of the critical interval are so 
from corresponding with the quantity obtained in all other localities, 
and which are generally so near as to amount almost to a constant, 
that the two times of the day at which the mean temperature occurs 
can only be regarded as approximative. January aifords a solitary 
instance of the daily mean temperature occurring after midnight, 
viz: \1h. 30m. p. m. 



METEOROLOGY. 



289 



Table of the Hours of Mean Temperature and the ^^ critical interval" 

between those hours. 



Date. 



1857. 

January 22 

February 23 

March 22 

April 29 

May 22 

June 22 

July 22 

August 28 

Septemlier 23 

October 21 

Novemlxr 27 

Decerabt-r 23 



Mean. 



Daily mean. 



4S. 50 
53. 75 
50.38 
Gl 88 
62.46 
69.83 
75.63 
05. 21 
64. OS 
58.50 
53.58 
43.50 



Morning hour. 



30 



10 45 

8 41 

9 53 
7 30 

7 33 

8 54 

7 36 

8 42 

9 38 
10 47 
10 45 



Evening hour. Critical intervaL 



It. m. 
12 30 
10 15 
9 19 
9 7 
8 16 
6 
41 
47 



12 
9 



8 

8 

8 

9 55 

9 15 



35 
30 



k. 


m. 


13 


00 


11 


30 


12 


38 


11 


14 


12 


46 


12 


33 


11 


47 


13 


11 


13 


13 


11 


37 


13 


48 



10 46 



12 20 



One of the most striking features of tlie climate, seen on the accom- 
panying chart of diurnal variations, is the greatest reduction of tem- 
perature after the hour of maximum elevation. Howsoever high the 
wave of temperature towers up under the influence of a vertical sun 
and cloudless sky, it sinks proportionately low during the night, 
rendering it conl and chilly. As an instance of the reliability and 
freedom from exaggeration of the curves of temperature in this respect, 
we would remark that the record of the thermometrograph for July, 
1857, reveals a range of 41 degrees, and a mean daily range of 18.68'. 
degrees, while the chart of diurnal observations describes a curve of. 
only 24 degree-. The following table exhibits the successive hourly 
ranges during one day of each month in the year. 

19 s 



290 



METEOROLOGY 






'S^ 









C7 
CO 


•ggiaqinaoaa 








en 


1 1 1 1 M 1 1 t 1 M 1 





at 


•i5 jaqaiaAON 




00 





1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 






•IS jaqoloQ 


SSmioio.oooSioSiraico'niooiOioio.oii-siO'n 






CO 


III 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 



00 


CO 


•gSJaqiuaidsg 


g§ggggS!§SgSSgS§§§g§§§§§§ 


If 

00 




II 1 1 1 1 M II 1 


t^ 


CO 


■85 isnSnv 




§ 


CO 


1 1 1 1 1 1 II 1! 1 




^ 


•55 -^inr 


SS{:;f=f:f;!^f;{:f;J^l^l^f:SSSSS3SS?iSS 





CO 


11 1 M M II II 1 


5 
10 


to 


•55 aunf 


0O--tr-H^^^r-l.-<f-H.-t^^.--f-i0OQOau0OQ00O00Q0QOaO 


^ 


CO 


1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 


s 


lO 


•55 Xbw 


-^iOiOiOiOiOiOu^iOiOOiOir3»0'^Tr-^rr-^'T''r^-^T 


00 


g 


rHi-icotDt-*cDiotDco»n'^'^>-<o^-^iocor^ooo>ooioo» 

1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 II 1 


oi 





in 
2 


•6« HJdV 


QO0O0O(MOlCJ<N?l(N(M(J>(N(N(N(N0O0O1O00 0O0O0O0O0O 

COXIQO^'— '^^ — --^r- '^•-''— '^^300000000000000000 


III 1 1 II 1 1 1 1 1 


05 


in 


•55 naivjfi 


0000<N(NCJ(M(N(»(DtSCTffl(N(MIDQOCOOOQOOOOOOOCOOO 


S 


># 


(N^O(Nr3->}'in'OmiOW»TO(N^O(MC^3'5";Oi>0030t~ 

II 1 II 11 II M 





•^ 


•C5 .OBnjqaa 
•55 XiBnUBf 


15r!{2i2SgSSSSS^SSSS12i2;2S;2i5i2;2 





s? 


1 II 1 I.I II II 1 1 


s 


(N 


sssssssgssssssssssssssss 






00 
CO 


Trr^c^c^oo.—'C^'^'^c^CJCN'-'i— ii-Hr-ioooojccTTCO 

Mill 1 1 II II 


10 


(N 


Hours. 


•••••••■::::::■:!::::::: : ': 


aaaa!iBa.a.a.a.a.ci.a.Q.a.a.d.ci.aaiaiiaa 

(^00050— <M — (NC^-a<lOtOf-00050-^C»-H31CT<rO!0 


s 

3 
01 


(3 

1 



METEOROLOGY. 



291 



The mean daily range for eacli month is exhibited in the subjoined 
table, which embodies the two last years' observations with the ther- 
mometrograph. 



For 1856-'57. 









(U 




^ 


1 n 


fl 


3 








3 


s* 


< 


to 



£ o 



Mean of all highest readings by day 
Mean of all lowost readings by night 
Mean daily mensual range 



57.38 



13.66 



63.5668.22 71.30 

1 

1 
47.9150.01 

15.65il8.21jl7.95 



79,20 



78.95 81.03 



53.35 



58.88^58.8864.69 
20.3222.0716.34 



78.99 57.75 

55.45 49.86 

I 

23.54:17. 



59.41 



67.29 



16.96 



Dividing the year into its meteorological seasons, the mean daily 
,nge will be as follows : 



Spring, (February, March and April) 15°. 84 

Summer, (May, June, July, August, and September) 19°. 64 

Autumn, (October and November) 16°. 83 

"Winter, (December and January) 12°. 18 

Reverting to the table of monthly and annual means we find the 
respective mean temperature of the seasons to be as follows : For the 
spring months, mean 55°. 31, the mean maximum being 71°. 20, and the 
mean minimum 42°. 13 ; for the summer, mean 70°. 19, and the mean 
maxima and minima 92°. 50 and 55°. 11, respectively ; for the autumn, 
mean 58°. 47, and mean maxima and minima 78°. 20 and 44.°00, re- 
spectively ; in the two winter months the mean is 45°. 94, the mean 
maxima 0°.90j and the mean minima 29°. 70 

Thus it is demonstrated that there is a mean difference between 
winter and spring of 9°, 35 ; between spring and summer of 14°. 88 ; 
between summer and autumn of 11°. 72 ; and between autumn and 
winter of 12°. 53. The difference of the means of the hottest and 
coldest months between summer and winter is also shown to be 
24°. 25, and the extreme variation_, or the difference between the mean 
maxima of the former and the mean minima of the latter, 41°. 50. 

It will be noticed that in our division of the seasons we have, in 
accordance with the phenomena observed, defined February as the 
first of the three spring months, and appropriated five months to 
summer, and only two to autumn, and two to winter. Indeed, the 
dormant season is of so short duration that the tropical division into 
the wet and dry seasons would perhaps be more appropriate. The 
whole period of sensible winter is far from being a complete season of 
suspension of vegetation. During the period we have assigned to it 
many forms of vegetable life are still active ; particularly the roots of 
grasses and winter grains. The lowest mean daily temperature 
belonging to this period is seldom below 40°. Although the ther- 
mometer has been known to fall as low as 33° as late as the 10th of 
February, still the leafing process generally commences during the 
first week of February and is completed at a temperature not much 



292 METEOEOLOGY. 

exceeding that of the mean annual. Sometimes a greater degree of 
cold is experienced in March than in February, and at other times 
spring is as well advanced in March as at other seasons it is in May. 
In 1855 the mean temperature of May was 3° lower than that of 
April, 1857, notwithstanding, the distribution of heat for the three 
months of spring is marked by no great variability in successive years, 
nor great constant diiferences of the mouths. The measure ol' heat 
increases very gradually from month to month. Indeed, the same 
uniformity of temperature is found to obtain throughout all the 
meteorological seasons. In summer the greatest vicissitudes of tem- 
perature are found to occur, as is readily seen in the subjoined table 
for 1856 and 1857. The commencement of autumn is quite similar 
to the beginning of spring in its mean of daily temperature. The 
earth remaining warmer than the atmosphere under the decline of 
temperature, activity is partially renewed after the drought of summer 
by the influence of the light early showers of October. The first frosts 
occur about the middle of November, and the decline into winter is 
prolonged until the latter part of December. Ice is seldom formed 
before the beginning of January, and then rarely remains unthawed 
for 24 consecutive hours. As a physical constant it is a matter of 
some difficulty to place within 5° of different latitudes isothermal 
lines for the seasons. That of 60° for the spring, designed for the 
United States Army Meteorological Register, which connects Sacramento 
with Beaufort, North Carolina, on the Atlantic coast^ and San Diego, 
on the Pacific, curves 5° 52' latitude to the south on arriving at 
the latter point. A corresponding divergence to the north occurs 
during the winter. The isochimenal line of 45°, which is common to 
Beaufort, North Carolina, and Sacramento, describes a northerly curve 
of 8° 03' latitude before reaching the Pacific at Port Orford, Oregon, 
latitude 42° 44'; the mean annual temperature of which place is only 
53° 6'. The isotheral of 70°, starting from latitude 40° on the 
Atlantic side, comes out on the Pacific coast on the parallel of 30°. 
The great curvature to the south on the Pacific coast during spring 
and summer demonstrates one of the peculiarities of the distribution 
of heat in this region. For the mean of the three months of spring 
the sea temperature which predominates on the line of coast westward 
of the coast range of mountains is strikingly uniform, and shows but 
little, if any, advance on that of winter. Indeed, the same may be 
said of the summer months. For some hundreds of miles on the 40th 
parallel there is very little difference in the sea temperature for the 
entire year, and the cold of the Pacific in summer extends, according , 
to the Army Register, from the 50th to the 30th parallel. Thus 
while the extremes of summer heat are common to the whole valley 
of the Sacramento and San Joaquin, the mean summer temperature 
of San Francisco is only 60°, and there is only one day recorded I 
among the observations of Dr. Henry Gibbons when the temperature 
rose above 79° during the summer months. 



METEOROLOGY. 



293 






.;^^ 



&3H ■ • 



^o 



SZZZSC 



• P^ *^ M 






.a 3 



o z 

•si : : : : :^a^ 

maj 0120202000210 gq8 

^^ 1 1 i M^J : 

^ : ; ia^ : :hJ 

<^QQWa2CQQQ0Qi3232Z; 

CO r^ T «o t^ 

CO CO CO CO CO 

o 30 cs ad o 

coro3ro»rrcoc^o:D 
r^ X oi o — « ci C5 oi t^ i~-* 






P Z 03 Z 02 02 






zz^;z?o2 



r^ CO :*^ 1^ t^ t^ 

«D CO CO ;d to CO 
CO go" rr — :d -H 

»0 n* U7 CO O (D 



COI^ QO Ol CO -^ 



6h s <: 



2;2 



zz 



03 2; 









CO t^ lO CO 

u o 

O 2 

Z Z Z 02 02 Z 03 Z Z !S 

ZcoZoaOiZtKajZZ 
■^ r^ CO CO CO 

CO CD CO CO CO 
00 QO l^ CO t^ 

cor^or^r^of^oor— 
cocoococo=;coooco 
oo-^r^ooox)coocoir5 
cot^oot^t^i^r^cjoc^co 

CO^r-OOlOCDt^QO^lrt 
C< C^ — . r^ ^^ ^H — 4 ^H 

g = = = s- 

S k^ -^ •< o3 



•^^^ : :^ 

OQZZ 02 02 03 

^ z z cc ^; 02 



tcZa2>Ho2 

CO f^ Tf 

CO CO CO 

r~ lo CO 

coo 1^ or- CO 

CO O CO GS CO ?3 
» ^ t~' (N 0(j (tJ 

■<r ^ lO lO CO CD 

OCO 3> — CO rji 

-< c) <r> c< 

fe< S < 



294 METEOROLOGY. 

Hygrometry , Wind, Hail, Snow, Electrical and other Phenomena. 

An examination of the results of the psychrometer will reveal the 
peculiar state of the atmosphere during the summer months. So great 
is the apparent aridity at times that the lower asrial strata are fre- 
quently found to contain during the hottest part of the day not more 
than 15 to 20 per centage of their capacity for moisture. As an iso- 
lated and extreme case, on the 10th July, 1856, at 2 p. m., wind 
N. and light, and temperature 100°, the dew-point was found at 
22°. This, we believe, is the greatest dryness that has yet been ob- 
served on the surface of the globe on low lands. Humboldt, in his 
Cosmos, states that the greatest dryness he has observed was in the 
steppe of Platowskaja, after a SW. wind had blown for a long time 
from the interior of the continent. With a temperature of 74°. 07 he 
found the dew-point at 24°, the air containing yVo^^^s of aqueous 
vapor. The principal agent in this hygrometric peculiarity of the 
climate is to be found in the direct effect of northerly winds. In the 
winter and spring the north winds are the coldest and serve, as the 
land is then cooler than the sea, on account of the distance of the sun, 
to condense the moisture wafted with the atmospherical current from 
the southern hemisphere, and to precipitate it in the form of rain. 
During this season the southeast trades, charged to their utmost 
capacity with moisture, commence descending as their temperature 
decreases, and precipitate more and more rain as they become chilled 
by the north winds. During the summer, owing to the fact of these 
northerly winds passing over a highly heated and arid surface, their 
temperature is raised, thereby increasing their capacity for moisture, 
which not being able to obtain from the surface passed over, they 
appear as dry winds, reminding one of the reputed sirocco of Italy. 
Nevertheless, dry as these winds apparently are, on coming in contact 
with the westerly winds chilled by the oceanic polar current along the 
coast, and their temperature being again reduced, the vapor they con- 
tain is rapidly condensed ; hence the heavy mists that are precipitated 
during the afternoon at San Francisco and at the gaps along the coast. 
In the valley, as a general rule, the direction of the wind is from 
north by west to southeast. It seldom blows from the east or north- 
east with any appreciable force. Doubtless the prevailing wind off 
the coast, where no causes of local deflection exist, is west, as estab- 
lished by Lieut. Maury. This wind, rushing into the heated valleys 
through the gap at San Francisco and Benicia, reaches us at Sacra- 
mento and the northern part of the valley as a southwest wind, while 
at Stockton and the San Joaquin valley it is a westerly and north- 
westerly wind. To this wind, together with that descending from 
the slopes of the sierras, may be attributed our cool summer nights. 

The influence of the winds on the temperature, as we have just seen 
with respect to the hygrometric condition of the air, varies according 
to the season of the year. It is during the occurrence of northerly 
winds in the summer that we experience our hottest weather, which 
seldom lasts long, however, before the temperature becomes equalized 
by a change of wind to the southward. Upon an examination of our 
daily and hourly records we find it to be a common occurrence during 



METEOROLOGY. 235 

the summer months for the wind to commence blowing from the north 
at or shortly after the morning observation, and to remain in this 
quarter until afternoon, when it would change round to the south, 
freighted with moisture and invigorating freshness. It is the preva- 
lence of these cool winds which temper our summer climate so delight- 
fully, the greater or less predominance of which renders the mean 
temperature plus or minus. 

As regards the force of the wind, it is generally but slight. The 
observations in this respect having been registered for the two last 
years only it is impossible to make full deductions therefrom with 
any degree of completeness. The following enumeration of the fre- 
quency, course, and seasons of winds, during 1856 and 1857, stronger 
than (3) a fresh breeze, will afford some idea of this feature of the 
climate. 

The whole number of times it blew with the force of four, (4,) or 
what is estimated a strong wind, from the north, was 29, viz : Janu- 
ary, three times ; February, five times ; March, once ; April, four 
times ; June, once ; September, three times ; October, twice ; Novem- 
ber, eight times ; and December, twice Eighteen times it blew from 
the south with the force of four, (4,) viz : January, once ; August, 
twice ; September, four times ; October, three times ; November, four 
times; and December, four times. It blew only eight times with the 
force of (5) a high wind, viz : three times from the north, once 
in February, once in April, and once in November ; and again five 
times from the south, viz : once in January, once in October, once in 
November, and twice in December. But twice does it appear in the 
register to have blown a gale, (6,) and on both these occasions it was 
from the southeast, in the month of November. These results, as be- 
fore stated, are derived from the record of the last two years. Prior 
to this no precise estimate was made of the force of the wind. The 
only time it was ever observed during the whole series of five years 
to blow with a force above six was on the last night of the year 1854, 
or rather on the morning of the 1st of January, 1855, when a strong 
gale from the southeast, attended with rain, was experienced. As a 
general rule, it very rarely rains with the wind from the northern half 
of the octant, which may be attributed to its coming to a warmer from 
a colder region. During the last five years there have occurred only 
fifteen exceptions to this rule, and the aggregate quantity that fell at 
these different periods does not amount to two inches. On one occa- 
sion, the 27th of December, 1855, the snow which fell at daylight, 
amounting, when melted, to 0.016 inches by the rain gauge, was added 
to the amount. This was the heaviest fall of snow ever experienced ; 
indeed only three other instances of this phenomenon appear on our 
record, and in all three the fall was very light. Hail storms are more 
common. These, also, are of short duration, and are attended with 
more or less disturbance of the electrical equilibrium. The breaking 
up of the rainy season is the period of the most violent manifestations 
of these latter phenomena. With the exception of the spring of 1857, 
which was a season of drought, hail and thunder storms have invari- 
ably occurred during the months of April and May, but have never 
been very severe in this immediate locality. A hail storm which 



296 METEOROLOGY. 

occurred at a point witliin eight miles of the city, in May, 1854, is 
represented to have been very violent. But we have experienced nothing 
in this locality like that, proceeding from a dense nimbus, which sud- 
denly arose from the southwest on the 13tli of May, 1855, and, while 
discharging its watery contents, rivalled, in the vivid shocks, of its 
well-charged battery, the thunder gusts of more tropical regions. 

The aurora borealis has been observed only once — on the night of 
the 16th of December, 1857 ; the sky being entirely clear at the time, 
the wind light, from the east — the thermometer reading 44°, and the 
barometer 30.321 inches, reduced for temperature. This phenomenon 
first appeared in a northeast direction, in the form of a diffused light 
defined by an arch below. From this arch, of about 15° radii above 
the horizon, the light extended in width apparently 10° above Alioth, 
in the constellation of the Great Bear, and gradually spread over the 
whole northern section of the heavens, the dominant hue being deep 
rose. Its aspect, however, was frequently changed by the successive 
appearance and shifting of streaks or columns of white light, which 
seemed to be more conspicuous at either extremity of the arch. With 
the exception of a somewhat similar phenomenon seen once at Sonora, 
Tuolumne county, during the winter of 1852-'53, we have heard of 
no other instance of the aurora being seen in California. 

Before proceeding to a consideration of the rains we would, in this 
connexion, briefly refer to the transparency of the atmosphere for which 
California has been noted. The relative frequency of clear and cloudy 
days in summer and winter, as appears in the tables, although sub- 
stantially correct, does not convey a just idea of the clearness of the 
sky. The results are calculated from three daily observations; and if 
it so happens that at either of these the least cloudiness is visible it 
is recorded as a cloudy day, without regard to quantity. Now, one of 
the peculiarities of the summer climate is, that if there be any cloud- 
iness during the day, which is rarely the case, it is almost invariably 
clear at night. Indeed, on this account, perhaps there is no region 
better adapted to astronomical purposes ; for, as Sir David Brewster 
expressed his wish^ " no clouds disturb the serenity of the firmament, 
and no changes of temperature distract the emanations of the stars." 
As to the quantity of cloudiness, this not having been estimated pre- 
viously to the last two years, of course the results in this respect can- 
not be regarded but as approximative to a constant, the number of 
cloudy days having been in excess during 1856 and 1857. 

RIVER, RAINS, ETC. 

The rise and fall of the river at Sacramento is graduated by the 
terms high and low- water mark, or zero. A solid column, surmounted 
with a wind -vane, was set up by the city near the river bank in Sep- 
tember, 1856, when the river had attained the lowest stage ever 
known. The fig. 2 in the accompanying hydrographic scale agrees 
with the zero in our published observations up to that date. The 
mean depth of the channel of the river in this neighborhood is 16 feet 
below low-water mark, and the width of the river is about 300 yards. 
There is a tidal rise and fall of about one to two feet at Sacramento, 



METEOROLOGY. 297 

according to the course and force of the wind and the stage of the 
river. If the wind blows strongly from the north this fall is still 
greater, especially during spring tides. The stage of the water is 
also aftected by the temperature, as well as by the fall of rain. The 
months of November, December, January, February, March, and 
April constitute the "rainy season," although more or less rain 
generally falls during October and May. The first and generally the 
greatest rise in the river occurs about the 1st of January, after the 
early rains. The warmer these rains are the less snow falls in the 
mountains, and consequently the more sudden is the rise of the river. 
From the middle of January to the middle of February there is gene- 
rally a marked abatement, and sometimes a complete suspension of 
rain, and the river declines correspondingly. From the middle of 
February to the last of April the latter or warmer rains set in, and 
cause a second or spring rise, which is kept up in accordance with the 
prevailing temperature. If the spring and early summer have been 
cold, the spring freshet soon passes off, and the river maintains a 
high level, as it did in 1857, in consequence of the gradual melting 
of the snow at its sources ; and the converse obtaining if the hot 
weather sets in early. Recurring to the hydrographic scale, we would 
observe that the figures to the left indicate, when applied to the river, 
the number of feet from zero or extreme low-water mark at spring 
tide to the highest point the Siicramento has yet been known to rise, 
viz : nearly 22 feet, in January, 1852. The curves for all the years 
are not complete,, our notes not being full and regular. The same 
scale of feet, if read for inches, when applied to the perpendicular 
lines, will denote at a glance, and which is most important in this 
connexion, the monthly quantity of rain that fell at Sacramento during 
the last five years — the rain for 1853-'54 being placed in the first 
column of each month, of 1855 in the second, and of 1856-'57 in the 
third. The scale to the right represents inches, and is intended to 
show the comparative annual fall of rain since the year 1852. As 
will readily be seen, the rains during 1856-'57 have been so much 
below the average that they should be regarded as exceptional. 
Averaging the rains of 1852-'53-'54-'55, we find an annual fall 
of 21,352 inches ; whereas the average of the last five years gives only 
17.113 inches. In the rain chart of the Army Meteorological Regis- 
ter, Sacramento is included with San Francisco in the area of 22 inches 
of rain ; and Dr. Gibbons puts down the mean annual rain of the 
latter place at 21.17 inches. This corresponds with our estimate of 
the amount for Sacramento, and rather strengthens the opinion just 
expressed, that the years 1856-'57 should be regarded as exceptional. 
Although the river is, of course, but slightly affected by the amount 
of rain that falls in this immediate vicinity, nevertheless the con- 
nexion here preserved is of much interest, inasmuch as experience 
shows that the amount of rain that falls at Sacramento bears a quan- 
titative proportion to that which is precipitated in the higher parts of 
the valley, as well as in the mc untains. Certainly, the river never has 
attained a high stage when there has occurred a deficit of rain at 
Sacramento. To substantiate these assertions the following facts, 
condensed from our publications in the California State Medical 



298 METEOROLOGY. 

Journal, will suffice. As therein stated the winter and spring of 
1849-'50 was a season of continual outpourings. The first settlers 
tell us that the rain came down in torrents, and that tubs and casks 
left out at night were found full and overflowing next morning. This 
must, of course, be taken cum grano salis. There were no ombro- 
meters in those mythical days, when the rain appears to have been as 
abundant as the gold. Doubtless the rains were copious ; certainly 
they set in earlier than they have ever done since. " The first rain 
of 1849 took place on the 23d of September. Through the month of 
October they became much more severe and cold, and, as no adequate 
preparation had been made for protection against this element, the 
sufferings of the immigrants were consequently aggravated." * 

* * '^' Through the latter part of December and beginning 
of January, 1850, the rains were so heavy that serious apprehensions 
began to be entertained, for the first time, of an inundation." * 

* * "By Christmas the water was over the lower portions 
of the city ; on the 8th of January, 1850, it rose rapidly ; and on the 
10th, and for several days after, there was no dry land in town, except 
the knoll at the public square." * * * " In a few days 
the waters subsided, the sun broke from its cloudy confines and shone 
bright and beautiful again. This weather continued until the heavy 
rains of the following March." * * * '-On the 7th of 
April the waters began again to run into the town, and on the 8th 
the council voted an appropriation of money for constructing a tem- 
porary levee, which was made, and the principal business portion of 
the city saved from an overflow." — (History of the City.) The open- 
ing half of the winter of 1850-'51, when commence our own observa- 
tions, was rainless, and consequently the river remained at low -water 
mark until January, 1851, during which month about three-fourths of 
an inch of rain fell, and a corresponding rise in the river occurred. 
From this period the river remained very low until April 5, when it 
attained, although by no means a high level, still a greater elevation 
than at any prior date of the season, and navigation continued open 
to most of the upper trading points on the Sacramento, as well as to 
Marysville, until the summer. The rains that fell during this inter- 
val amounted to about 4 inches. 

The rainy season of 1851-'52 commenced early, and the river rose 
correspondingly. By the 30th December it was up to within 4 feet of 
its natural banks, in consequence of the heavy rains which fell up to 
that date, amounting in the aggregate, during September, October, 
November, and December, to about 10 inches ; thus compensating, in 
a measure, for the deficit of the previous season. The rain of the year 
1852 was well distributed among all the months of the wet season, 
and amounted in the aggregate to about 27 inches. The heaviest rains 
occurred in March and December, and consequently the city was over- 
flowed both these months, the levee not proving adequate. The first 
of these inundations occurred on the 7th March, owing to the washing 
away of the embankment at the flood-gate in the levee at Sutter lake, 
as well as to a crevasse on the American river ; and for one week 
nearly the whole city remained submerged. The rains which followed 
after the great fire of November, 1852, were the heaviest known for 



METEOROLOGY. 299 

• that season of the year of which we have any positive record. About 
i 12 inches fell in December. Accordingly the river rose 17 inches 
! higher than in the flood of 1850. From the 25th December to the 
I 24th January, 1853, when the waters began to retire, the city re- 

• mained almost entirely submerged. During the following March the 
! fall of rain amounted to 7 inches, and again a corresponding rise of 

the river occurred. On the 29th it rose 12 feet in twenty-four hours, 

'. and soon reached above the original banks ; and, backing up from a 

I break in the levee at Sutterville, the greater part of the city was 

I again overflowed by the 2d April, and thus remained more or less 

t deluged until the rains subsided towards the last of May. The 

amount of rain that fell during the latter month was nearly 1^ inch, 

and the aggregate for January, February, March, April, and May, 

and which kept up the river at so high a level, was about 17 inches. 

From the period to which we have thus brought down our account 
of the freshets of the Sacramento river and the corresponding rains, 
up to the present time, (1st January, 1858,) there has been no ex- 
traordinary rise to record, as may readily be seen by a glance at the 
hydrographic scale. As may also be there seen, the rains during the 
same interval have been considerably below the average. 



300 



METEOROLOGY. 



^ 


GO O •<?• 


(n:c-i 










03 00 00 






-*)- 


*-w 


^^ 


•° m 


c coir» 


in — o« 






■~t -^ 00 


030 Cl 





— £ 


. o o o 


















IE" 




S — -H O 






— tt'o 








1 M 1 


tj+l 






+ 1 




3-1 + 

a 




CO 

1 


5 3 


■^ 


(^ 










q 




1 


<~ 






















J O = — 1 


8— im 33 




000 000 in iCCOrJ" t^ c!«-|«e. 


n M CJ 




S — !OCO 


U 03C0 O 




000 i^ a 


3 — .-§10010 


• CO 


•UB31V[ 


^OCOO 










33 CO t- a CD in in 01 




be TO a; = 




-1 00 00 :33 CO • • 


■S C! — 








H — ■ oj ai 


CD t~ -T to 




CO IT CO in c< -r 


g 




"^ 




l^COIDSI 


Q 












"^ 1 




o," 133(^00 


So = CD 




000 ooin -wo- 


J 


tp to 






£ =>o 00 




000 00 C« -criMC^ c^O3C}00 


- <S 


•jaqiuaoad 


.^ 3i~ (M 


btT' (?i n 




- • • • • • 03 m 00 »> (N 
Tji33in oooor- ... y 


r- c, 1 




~ O 3J o" 


« OCg T 




in c) (N IT C) CO 


(^ 




a 




t^cocico 


Cl 
















J ^O -1 


g O O 00 




000 000 33 -- 00 . 0. 


fn C 


13 f-^ 




S ^ »i^ CO 


S = o -< 




000 oo-v couo^ M^coc: 


3 




■j9qmaA0j^ 


^co r- = 


6>r-" CO 'TJ 




csTi^in m — ^ ... ^ 


CD CO 






Cl 




1^ ?o If ^5 rr 


q 









-/ T ^ ^ 


u o o -^ 




000 OO-^ C330O'n . H^clnc 


I" f- 


-■ in 




S 35CJ CT 


Sooo 




000 0000 COCO05 »00(M— 1 


. 03 


•jaqojoo 


^ CI r-- o 


tunr^ — oo 




00 l^ r-M CO "- 


ex Cl CO »s-l rt 


CO ^. 1 




e o en o 


« t~ ^ o 




t~ CO I" in o) 'S* 


C| 









»qr^ (N eg 


C| 
















S CD ^ -^ 


S oo CO 




000 0/«0 CD CO -0 . ti|^--ln- 


1" 00 ■2 1 




Cj O O C3 




000 = in t ^ CO K o) i~ 




. .!< 


•jaquiajdag 


^O lO oo 


bo t^ o 




... ... (X> rH in >37< 

00 PI CO 83 TT 33 ... a 


TO c 1 




e O 35 O) 


S^ojor- 




33 m Tf in ui ^ 


q 








>i;ri oj cj 


Q 












0. 
03 1 




,_■ = l^C^ 


S O o Oi 




000 00 in 003- 


M _,„„,„ 


• in 






S 03 iraco 


^O O iO 




000 TT ^-. -.1 in Co in in 








•jsnSnv 


^ en «3 ao 


tVoO 00 o 




. ■ . ... CX) .-H S3!N 

cn CO CO CO Tf CO ... ^ 


• CO 






c oj o) a> 


(J 03 O O 




33 in ir to Cl m 


Ci 










fc? ^ Cl OJ 


Q 


















•co ^Oi 


3 o ocj 




000 oot^ ^coro . "i"-!- 


• 00 






8 ?5 02 T 


3 = =>. -; 




000 0000 — ■33CO '«0OCI 








•^inf 


<; = CO 00 


tjiO CO lO 




ooin- uicJco' "^.^."^ g"' 


• CO 






ff o cn 03 


«OCDt-- 




in T to CIO 


q 










iq rjtri cN 


Q-" 




^ 














t^ •:I' CO in 


£ o o CO 




000 000 OintO . ^)-r.ci^ 


^ =0 1 




S -1 r?l-r 


Sooo 




000 03 03C^0J l»-H0Or^ 


. CO 


•aunf 


jS — CCOO 


li-f'-'-H' 




• ■ . ... 00 — H CO SlCI 

t~ Cl in in 33 CO ... 5'"" 


CO 




~ o oi aj 


S*33COC- 




Oi in -^ CO cTf in 


q 




° 




>~i:^ <NC< 


Q 
















kO ■«• o 


So o — 1 




000 OOCO COr^O . e»i"-l« 


"lo - 1 






So O 33 




000 000 0000- 


■< «COt-'3< 


Tf 


•Xbw 


^sss 


bo C33' co' 
oTaOTj-co 




... ... 00 CO t~ 5y-. —1 

CO in 00 inci ... a 


in 00 




c o sioi 




00 -^ CO to ^ in 


Cl 








fcScojncM 


C) 












1 




^ o m — • 


8000 




000 OOtO a0C!33 


m 




S r3 O 00 


2 00 




000 000 CO V o,COt^0O 


C3 


•ludy 


^ (71 O Oi 


bs3CD 00 




... ... 03 -^ t^ Sri^ fH 

CO t^ 03 in to ... a 


to -. 1 




K 0> 33 


^■tOT>n 




r-'T CJ meo rr 


q 








l^rj (D (N 


Q 
















• ^ lO TJ 


8 CO 




000 OO-J- 33COC 


, 


1^ CO 




S (^ CD 00 


S 




oco OOCO CO — r^ oi co in in 





•qo-iBH 


^ CI COS! 


bod33 [-' 




- . . ... C3 ^r t^ 

33 f- (N T -H in . . 


g-,— — 


in ^ 1 




e =' 3> O) 


<a t^ CO in 




t^co ^ oco T 


q 








CiCSCXM 


Q 












1 




<^ JO C103 


"00-* 




000 OOCT CO'3>0O . -l-ol" 


t- m 






^0 CD 




000 0000 Tf CO in w; CO in ^ 


• 33 


•XiEtijqa^ 


^ f: CO o 


bco (N IN 




03' t-' ox ci ci - 


O3C0t- 


gv— — 1 


. 




e o O) o 


<a CO •<)• lO 




CO CO CO in c( -^ 


q 









ki; COCTCO 


Q 












1 




^(7) 33 (» 


8 ooti^ 




000 0003 COCOCl . "I"M" 


CO en 




S-^ •?* C3 


S 




000 -T ^ t^ CO eo t^ 




•XjEnuuf 


^ S^ CO 33 


bos' O! co' 




„• • _■ ^ ^ „; 33 CO CO S3-1 '- 
000 CO 33 Ci ... a 


CD 3)_ 




H o 33 33 


« OCO TT 




to CO CO in Ci 'f 


q 




■^ 




t^WClID 


C5 












1 










^ 






c 














>< 




















1^ 















































■■a 

CO 


s 

O 
n: 

<! 

n 







s 
ti 
a 

X 






H 










p 
& 

a 

Q 






w 








til . 

<2 ■ 




































.J 






p3^ 

■a >.'= 


3 









































o.s 




c 




































.— — cc 














• • 






















E 


Cm 


'5 





























3 = ; 


S =■ : 




s s 


SB j 


Ss 


000 


> 


Cm 




2 3 ■• 




s 5 


3 3 : 


3 3 


*- ^ i- 







, 


•§§ = 






c = a 


° ■?, •£ r 


.§§ = 

X 3 n! 


J= .0^ 

3 = C 


c 

t3 


1 












es — 0) 


ia.3 a 


333 


3 






S 


s 


s 


S 


5 


s 




^ 


s 


a 


S 


S 


S 


S 


S 


s 


2 


<=; 


a 


C3 


c 


1 



METEOROLOGY. 



301 





CO CD 

^+1+1+1++ 


•UB8K 


«5 O f- !C 30 rt_ — 1 T 
.-4 oi -h' r^ ,-i (M* -h' -<■ 


cTco o 00 ?- STJs'oo 


■J3qni333(j 


1.8 
2.1 
1.3 
2.0 
1.6 
2.8 

i'.Y 


«oao <N ■-■00 -ro 


•jaqmaAOx 
•laqojoo 


oj oj (N — ci o5 —' oj 


00 l^ STlTJ OJ STSTci 

oootooin-STOo 
-H d •-' oj (tJ cj ^ ^ 


t^ t^ r^CJ ■o'lO ^ 


■jaqmajdag 


— ' (?) -H -H cj O) -h' -h 


TT -T CJ ■'J' CO O ^ Ct 


•IsnSny 


1.0 
1.8 
1.6 
2.1 
2.1 
2.6 
2.0 
2.0 




ai«e.i.i-,c-|« -(«oto 


•Xjnr 


■-lOiO'j'tNiooio 
oj ci (Ti oi ci a ci ^' 




•sunf 


■-I35QOO(N0010 

ci — ' CT (ri ffi (ji -.^ oj 


Tj. T^Slr?r'-."c) "'""'" 


■Xbk 


1.1 

1.8 
2.1 
1.6 
1.7 
1.5 

'iio' 


i'5r2rt^"2rto j'^ 


•pidv 


to r- >o r-_ oi — o o 


T »o e:i -^ iC o 


M|3JBJ\! 

4 


C^TJ-t^ — tOCOOO 
-< — ' d -4 O r4 -h" -4 


^ft^ cm'-t'-' to'oj oT 


•XJEnjqaj 


conioinopoot^ 


f^o rt ^"STrr o! — ■ 


•XjBnaBf 


r- oo 00 n 00 (N t-- in 
^ -< = d -<' o! rt -I 




to 


1st days and 2d force of N. wind. . . 

Do do NW. wind. 

Do do ... . W. wind . . 

Do do,. ., SW. wind. 

Do do.,..S. wind... 

Do do,...SE. wind... 

Do do....E. wind ... 

Do do....NE. wind. 



302 METEOEOLOGY. 



GENERAL REMARKS. '^ 

a 

The foregoing table for 1856 is the result of three daily observa- 
tions, made at 7 a. m., 2 p. m., and 9 p. m., with the instruments 
and instructions recommended by the Smithsonian Institution, The 
readings of the barometer have been reduced to the temperature of 
32^ Fahrenheit, but not to sea level. The height of the lower sur- 
face of the mercury is 41 feet above the mean level of the sea at San 
Francisco. The rainy days are included in the cloudy and foggy 
days, and are also put separately to show the number of these days 
on which rain fell every month. Professor Coffin's psychrometrical 
table for determining the elastic force of aqueous vapor and the rela- 
tive humidity of the atmosphere will be used in our register hereafter, 
and the dew-point column omitted. The following corrections of ' 
errata are to be applied to our tables for 1853-'54, published in the 
Smithsonian Report for 1855 : Barometer mean for September, 1853, 
30.00, and mean mean 30.02 inches ; mean of barometer for January, 
1854, 30.11 inches. 

MONTHLY REMARKS. 

January. — The means of the barometer and thermometer were above 
the average of the three preceding years, the former by 0.254 inch, 
and the latter by 3.59 degrees. The rainy days exceeded the average ■ 
to the number of seven. There were five days of more or less fog. 
The quantity of rain was plus the average 1.460 inch. A sprinkle ■ 
of snow, just enough to be perceptible, occurred on the 8th at 9 a. m. 
On the 3d frost remained all day unthawed in the shade. 

February, — There was little variation in the atmospheric pressure 
from that of previous years. The mean temperature was plus the 
average by 1.14 degree. Spring opened early. On the 7th the wil- 
low (Salix) flowered. On the 13th the buttercup^ and on the 16th 
the wild violet were also in blossom. The rain fell short of the 
average by 1.460 inch. 

March. — The temperature exceeded the average still more this 
month, being plus 3.12 degrees. Spring progressed rapidly. On the 
Ist the peach was in full blossom, and on the 10th was leafed out. 
Although the deficit of rain for the month amounted to 2.560 inches, 
frequent showers, accompanied on the 29th by lightning and thunder, 
tempered, in this locality, the effects of the drought which prevailed I 
generally throughout the State. 

April. — There was very little variation in the readings of the 
barometer and thermometer from that of previous years. Seasonable 
rains invigorated vegetation, and although nothing like the deficiency ' 
was made up, still the Sacramento river remained comparatively high 
for the season, in consequence of the warm rains melting the snow. 
Its temperature averaged about 54*^, being four degrees lower than 
that of well water. The last frost of the season occurred on the 29th. 
The barn swallow made its first appearance on the 1st, and toward 
the latter part of the month wild geese were observed wending their 



METEOEOLOGY: 303 

way northwardly. At the last of the month salmon and sturgeon 
began to ascend the river in considerable numbers. 

May. — The average readings of the barometer and thermometer 
did not vary much from those of the four preceding Mays. The pro- 
longation of the wet season to the last of the month somewhat com- 
pensated for the deficiency of the semestral fall of rain, which was 
reduced down to 6.263 inches. On the evenings of the 6th, 8th, and 
9th sheet lightning in the northern horizon revealed the time of 
occurrence of terrific hail storms at various points at these respective 
dates. Tiiat which occurred at Butte creek^ Shasta county, was 
accompanied by a gale, the belt of which was not over half a mile in 
width, and the extent of ground on which the largest sized hail fell 
two miles. These hailstones were about the size of carbine balls, of 
a nucleus of ice surrounded by snow, apparently. On the 21st snow 
fell lower down on the foot hills than at any previous time during the 
winter. The temperature of the river still remained 4 degrees lower 
than that of well water, the current running at the rate of four miles 
an hour. 

June. — Throughout the whole month the weather was very variable. 
Instead of the close, sultry atmosphere that usually obtains as the 
sun enters the calm belt of Cancer, strong, chilly winds, varying from 
SSW. to WNW., just at the period of the summer solstice, pre- 
vailed, freighted with moisture from the ocean. As the land, how- 
ever, had already attained a high degree of temperature, of course it 
could not condense the vapors of water held by the air ; consequently 
no rain fell after the 1st, when 0.033 inch are now chronicled as the 
last for this extraordinary season. The total amount, therefore, of 
rain for the season of 1855-'56, at Sacramento, was minus the average 
4.264 inches The river continued to fall steadily. Its temperature 
on the 2l8t was 4 degrees higher than that of well water 12 feet 
below the surface, which fact showed that the great bulk of the 
melted snow from the mountains had passed off. 

July. — Notwithstanding the cloudless sky which characterized 
nearly this whole month, the tempering of the atmosphere by fresh 
southerly breezes was more obvious to one's feelings than by the ther- 
mometer, the mean of which was only 0.60 minus the average of the 
three preceding Julys. During the few days that northwardly winds 
predominated the heat became intense. An important meteorological 
fact connected with this unpleasant wind is that all the moisture has 
been wrung out of it that a dew-point of zero in the cold latitudes 
could extract. It is, indeed, a return wind, which, after blowing over 
the surface fresh from the ocean, grows colder as it goes north, where 
the process of condensation commences, and when it comes back it is 
as parching and obnoxious to animal and vegetable life as the simoon 
of the eastern deserts. The river reached a very low stage this month, 
and its temperature at 12 feet below the surface read 75*^;, while well 
water at the same depth was 66^. 

August. — This last of the summer months closed after a remark- 
ably cool summer . The whole number of days of extreme heat, in which 
the thermometer reached 90° and upward, amounted to only 11 for 
the summer, viz : two in June, six in July, and three in August. On 



304 METEOKOLOGY. 

the 26tli the temperature of the earth at 53 feet below the surface 
(the depth then obtained in an artesian well) was 60°, the thermometer 
having fallen about a degree and a half for every 10 feet from the 
depth of 15 feet, at the time of reaching which latter depth it read 66°. 

September. — This month was characterized by variable weather. 
The barn swallow made its last appearance on the 5th. On the 10th, 
at 5^ o'clock p. m., we were suddenly visited with a high wind fromi 
a heavy bank of clouds in the southwest horizon, which at one time 
presented indications of approaching rain, but was intercepted by the 
arid mountains and high lands of Santa Cruz, Alameda, and Sam 
Francisco, where the accompanying lightning and thunder are reported' 
to have been extremely violent. 

For several days previous to the equinox a regular declension of 
atmospheric pressure was experienced, attended with a stagnant, 
sultry condition of the air. This was succeeded by a sprinkle of rain 
(the first of the season in this locality) at daylight on the 20th, when 
the lowest reading of the barometer, as above, was recorded. As the 
sun entered Libra, however, the weatlier presented one of the most i 
favorable specimens of our autumnal climate, a fresh circulation of' 
air being kept up by southerly breezes. 

The most remarkable feature of the month was the brilliant ?erolite( 
which appeared on the evening of the 11th, at about 8 o'clock. As ■ 
it was seen simultaneously in an area of several hundred miles, 
bounded by Red Bluffs, Iowa Hill, Stockton, San Francisco, and i 
Santa Cruz, the probabilities are that at the time of its brief appear- 
ance it was in the upper regions of our atmosphere, and that, judging [ 
from the interval that elapsed between its explosion and the reaching 
of the report here, which resembled distant thunder, its distance then 
was between thirty and thirty-five miles. After comparing all the 
different accounts that have reached us, it would seem that its course 
was on the southern side of the zenith, from SE. to NW., and that 
its relative position to the point of aspect here was at first about forty 
degrees above the horizon, and twenty when it vanished. When first 
seen it appeared but little larger than Venus, but as it approached i 
the earth it increased in size as suddenly as it diminished again just t 
before bursting into brilliant corruscations of light that reflected all I 
the prismatic colors. The moon was near the close of ils second I 
quarter at the time, and the atmosphere clear and transparent. 

The Sacramento river fell to a lower point than has ever been before ; 
observed, which will be the zero of the scale of a new river gauge 
about to be constructed by the city. Its present mean temperature 
twelve feet below the surface reads 70°, while that of well water at 
the same depth is 60°. The temperature in the artesian well at 
sixty-five feet below the surface is 59^^°. 

October. — The mean temperature of this month was 5°. 47 minus 
the average. On the 1st the flight of wild geese southwardly, which i 
had been observed since the 8th September, prepared us to expect the 
rain that fell on five different days — the 7th, 15th, 17th, 19th, and 
24th ; and though not amounting to much in quantity, it was sufficient 
to indicate that the atmospherical changes which characterize the 
rainy season had set in. The first frost occurred on the 20th, and ice 



METEOROLOGY. 305 

S formed on the 22d, at daylight. The effect of the rains and snows 
!was sensibly demonstrated in the Sacramento river, both quanti- 
'tatively and thermometrically. On the 17th, it rose suddenly ten 
finches, and fell again immediately to low water mark ; its temperature 
• declining 12° lower than that of the previous month. The temperature 
I of well water fell to 57°. On the last day of the month the leaves of 
the willow began to fall. 

November. — Although the readings of the barometer were not much 
I below the average, more or less stormy weather prevailed over the 
greater part of the State. In the south, the setting in of the rains 
was attended by disasters of a somewhat novel character. A shower 
of sand swept over a portion of Los Angeles county, completely de- 
stroying the grass on the pasture lands About the same period, 
severe gales prevailed at Humboldt Bay. The mornings of the 27th 
and 30th were unusually cold for the season. The rains of the month 
did not make much impression on the river, further than a rise of 
about 9 inches ; its temperature was 46°, while that of well water was 
59°. The temperature of the Artesian well, at 73 feet, where it was 
discontinued, stood at 58°. 50. The fall of leaf of the fig, apple, pear, 
and cotton-wood tree occurred on the 1st, 5th, and 30th dates of the 
month respectively. 

December. — The month was rendered remarkable for the unprece- 
dented })ersistence of continuous cold weather and the number of cloudy 
days — much beyond the average of the three previous years. The 
barometer maintained an unusually high range in consequence of the 
prevalence of northerly winds. The readings of its extraordinary 
maxima were made on the evening of the 19th and morning of the 
20th, while the wind was fresh from the N.NW., and the temperature 
ranged from 30° to 40°. Its diurnal mean fell only five times below 
30 inches. The minimum was registered on the 29t.h at 9 p. m., pre- 
ceding a SE. storm which was general throughout the State. On the 
same day it snowed at San Francisco, and about the same period the 
Coast range of mountains presented the unusual appearance of being 
covered with snow. The river was not much affected by the rains of 
the month ; its temperature read 41°. 



20 s 



306 



METEOEOLOGY. 





fN Tf — 


(^)^~c' 




00 ooo 


CO GO rt 


(Tico r- 




^ 


CIi.-^ 


-^o(.i 




<rj 


1 




cj — e» 

CJ f- OT 


»~ — f~ 




o .ra It; 








OS T -"T 


i~ 00 CD a 1 












mcnc- 






X C* TT t-" OS 1 


c 




o as ■c <= 




S?^^ 


00 CI r- 






— 'CO-H 




a 


■= oia 


r~^ CO 


u^co -cr 






05C3 l- 


" "^ CO d' [ 


p: oto) 
















^H t 






















rt 






















C 


















H"a(n 




j=t 


en oo lo 


o o r^ 






CO 


CO c2 n 




m 


o moo rtj 


TTO CD 


o o ?: 






CD 


^ CJ IT 




C£ 


rH— CO 


s 


Tf X> '-' 










CO — c 






C£ CD 






o r-^ i-^ J- 




02 CI CO 


05 e; c- 






coo t- 




OOJO 


UO CO -^ 




HO CO d 


■r CO c; 






enc3c~ 


■«•(» 


3J 


C3 oi :»5 


















o 






















^ 


















a-i"!.-. 




a 


c*^ re o 


rr 












Ol 


— "oo O CO 1 


CO 1^ CO 


(N 








osos oo 




aa 




O) CO o 
















""^ OD -r 1 






lOOC CO 




1- in d 


00 CE O 






oosos 




> 

o 


c^'oi o 


coco m 




CC r5 CO 


u-j O) -^ 






C CT CO 


Co' (7) 


«G>1TO 














•"1 




55 




















„ 




















-InOlw 




O 'S* *?> 


en 








C0C5(N 




X 


coci d in 




t^ *r -^ 








y. 


00 ^ m 






rH r-l in 


X3 


-^ cc o 










IT — c: 






— CO 


o 




o C105 — 




OS lO f 


CO OS CO 






32; "= 


^- • 




O 3: o: 


1^ T CO 




i~ -crco 


lOQ) Tr 






OS CO CO 


CN= 1 


O 


n CI CM 


















1 


i; 




















I 


Iq 


-^O CO 


CO 






r-- 


-; oom 




12 


en— 1 o o 


fSJ •— — ' 


en 






CD 


in o — ' 




l^ 




S 


Si^-sn 


o Tj-oo r- 




CD (NtC 


00 CO C3S 


mm ■T 




c^l^■co 


tn = 




c oioi 


X oco 




CXI uo C*5 


m CO T 






(»ClCO 


r-^O 


CO 


n CiOi 




































_ 




















Olo-fe. Q, 














00 


Cl — 1" 




t- 


d<^ rt — 




CD CO -r 


?; 






cr 


l~ r' .0 




•^ 


<^ ^ — 


3 


O CO oo 










IT. m-Tf 






o c 


60 




o Ol O — 1 




CD iCl — • 


O 00 — 






3; CD CI 




s 


c';3) 35 


en cor- 




OS IC T 


coco in 






00 C7! CD 




< 


CC OJOi 


































r-1rte*o 




r^ X) CJ 


»o 






in 


CD CD'T 




CO 


CD CO i-t d 


>. 










CO 


Ol c; 1^ 




cr 


d _ — 


O CO X 










CO CO •3' 






d es 






o O CJ — 






OS CO c 






S??3 




>-3 


ci oic5 


OS CD t^ 




cs in ^r 


■n CO ir- 






o o 


CO <N!U 




































atr-.-l^ 






eo 






CO 


CO t-o 




(S 


00 O f-l o 






(35 












(7 






O CO cc 










00 (7) li- 






^ CO 






o 00 — 1 w 




^ -f r^ 


(M CO — 






in ■^co 






cDOici 


OS CO t~ 




o in -'T 


t- c: lo 






OOO) CO 


-^ o 


^ 


CO (?) (r< 






"" 






























0(«-<lCT Ql 




o t^ o 








<c 


WO t- 




CO 




>, 


■^ o -^ 


f. 






C' 


CC CO CJ 




•^ 


inS! '^ -a 


,-.(- en 










1- C< ■cj' 






O o 




o t^ 73 to 




— •— -o 


CO t 1 






oo T^Ol 




S 


O 03 OS 


CO »f J CO 




osin-r 


CO CO in 






OOJO CD 


02 


COCDCN 


































Ota -In « 




-f h- w 


r- 






o 


K3=*=-' 




CO 


(35 00 ^ t: 




CZ3 (~ r^ 


(71 






a 


CO C) c* 




o 


Gi — 














(B CJ Tf 






CO s 


a* 




© OS lO CO 




CO >0 rjD 


"*2 — 






O (7! .n 




<: 


o 31 a> 

^5 C) CI 


.- ./-, CO 




C«J TPn 


03 CO in 






O CO (^ 


-^"o. 
w 


J3 
o 


CO O CO 


CT 






CO 


(CJTTt- 




33 


(35 CO in >n 




■c 






in 


•^ w 'SI 








CO f^ o 










IT CI cr 






>— CD 




o CD T CD 




(75 o en 








•O-IOOO 




c: oi o 


CO T O 




CO -T o 


mco ^ 






cs'^ri^ 


to'o 


CO CJ CO 


















>> 


















O^ -In 




00 lO — ' 


in 








C5 o r- 




£3 


00 -T in — 


a 


CO CI <30 


c 






< 


CMOS (31 




c: 


r-l O 


p 












T O (7 






O CO 






o OS T s 






rfcc (?3 






O 00 c 




5 


c= Ci O 
COCJ CO 


inco o 




CO CO CO 


in (71 TT 






O (TJOO 


00"-<3> 


fa 






































o(n -to 


a 


CO — ' UO 


^ 








CO com 




00 


uo CI CO in 












CI CO 35 
■T — (7 




(7 


d CO 




— ^ -^ GC 




CO o c^ 


CO CD CO 






O r-lTT 




s 


cJoio 


CO CO -CT 




CD CO CO 


lOOl^ 






O COOO 


oo'^' 


rt 


CO 0)co 


















"^ 


















































































ti 






(1. 
•< 














o 






15^ 










C5 
-3 

>. 

(SB 










ci 






Ui 






(3 
o 
a 
h 
a 






H 






















611 










u 






h 










z 






-"i 






s 










,2 








00 


H 

s 

o 






a 
O 










• c 
; p- 






o 






s 








■ -3 


■3 
c= 




CIj 






Bi 






o 






• 


ji 






CtJ 






;i^ 








■^ >.■= -3 S 




■«1 






Ui 






s 






; 


a 






w 






H 








s ■^ >. = - 




n 






X 




















o 






■< 








'' = = =.= 

c!^ "^ ,!:=-<- 
= ° = ^s. 






ci 


5 c^ 




a , 
S c 


eu 


|| 


: 






2 c5 

X *- ct 


i, 1- *^ -^ "** 

S = c cj ca 




(C .— a 


cc .= : 




c; -b — 


ci .5 i 




ec .= 0. 


3 3 3 3 3 




^ 


? 


;i 


S 


< 


,s 




S 


S 


K 


s 


s 


S 


? 


< 


s 




g 


s 


f= 


2 


2 


2 




o 


' 



METEOROLOGY. 



307 



s 


-< O O -i -t' «* O ^ 






1 


— ^' — ' <N — ' — O -." 






a 


(NCxnO^QOt^CO 

o» =■ — (m' C-: -h' — ■ ci 


> 
c 
5- 


>rt — r?t~ CT 5< """t^ 


1^ 

o 


(- t- o o r~ CO o -H 

c c —■ — -.' _J «■ _■ 


r- e» — m JO ro HlT^T 


s 
S 


o o o — o» — 4 o -< 




3 
to 

a 


— >« c: — c; aj t~ in 

— c o —" ci —' — o 




>. 


Mocooocnosoo 


>-» 




c 

c 

9 
-a 


« o cr: r-- -H o f~ (M 
d d o — CM (n d -< 






-i d d cj ci oi — rt' 


— < CJ 30 ?0 O 




— d -< (?) O) 31 —' -^ 


to — .-0 ts XI CO 


•g 


^ o (CO o ro to >n 


a 
S 


-.tae.(o-(no(« -iBoto 

T (N ?5 or- t^ 




-< m !0 m as — C3J 

(71 3 —' — ' —■_;-.■_; 






3 
C 
es 


tootcnoctox 
— ■ -J d — -H -< d -<" 


o» — -^ t~ — 1 o • 




^Zi:(n(nai^2 

o : : : : . 1 • 
? ; : ; I : ; ; 

■£ o =" c <: o o o 

— TT T3 1= TS -a -C 13 

■M ::;:;: : 
•3 ;;:::; : 

a :::::: : 

£■0000(100 



308 



METEOEOLOGT. 






G 



CQ 







«-s§g 


M 00 1^ 














- • . 


LO LOtrt 


1 




r- 








>Ot^ 'T 
























u [M r- o 


o G> LO O 












' I : 


CD in -J- 








"S o s;' o 


t~ ^ -jD 














35 in 




t' 




^=C«5 O) « 
















-05 in 






M 










CO 10 




























CO ^ CO 
















K 


H 


























< 












r^ 00 i^ 
















a 


>, 










10 CO T 
















S 


rr 




























:o 






; ; 




CO 10 -^ 
















— 










U7 t~ 
















D 


ri 


























z 












00' — ' r-' 
















s 


>> 










LOCO rr 
















-< 


n 


























m 






05 -^ 




--©1^ 








in 






u 






r~ r-o 




c* ih oi 














ci 




• ; ; 


OS 0} t^ 




— fM'o 








•^ 






S-. 






t^Tf CO 




OiCOi- 






. 








(M 














: ■ 








w X o r- 


O O CO 


000 


ro — 1 


00 


LO m LO 


■<?• 




«3 


V O ^3- o 


^0:0 


>o 


LO co_ t- 


t^ 00 




— 2 


! 


^m 1 


— ' 


coo 


crj -too' 




~4n 


35 


1 


"■ 


l^CO fN .-O 


tSrSTT 


•ncoo) 


•^(MCO 


cs ^ F^ 


^Z" 


CO— 1 


t^ f^ irs o 


=: O! 


000 


^> LO -o 


in in — 


in ic in 


^ 




o 


<U Tf — 'XI 


CO CO 


ir: 


COl^ '-• 


(?) 




03 






-h" en ci 


c>: T(<'oo 


TT OJ 


cc' i-' 0! 


c)o6 in 


■<r — 




"Z 


,s ocno 


t~ CO 10 


t^CO CO 


in ?o '3' 


SJOJr- 


^ 05 CD 


UOf-i 




Kc^ojc^ 










~ 






» -^ OJ 05 


00^ 


= 00 


Tj< 


in -sr 


in in in 


CO 








rr -^ ^ 


c 




a^c^txj 




t^ 






-C C-l t^ o 










-7' uo — 


— CO 








inoD T 


00-^ i- 


co' -r f-' 


Co' 33 t-' 






O 


8 o as o 


00 T a> 


t- TT .-O 


\r.r. rf 


c; 01 CO 


^sr. 


-r 0' 




e^ r^ CO ^ 


a> 


= 


T XI LO 


LOGO 


in in 


_ 






<U C3C^ 03 


coo 




—_ CO t- 


00 — CO 








73 1 


^O t- » 


rn' CO 35 


(m' (JJ 


r-' uo" Qo' 


■O" OJ 00' 


in 


05 




■ Mii 


Oi »0 CO 


es m->r 


lOCO -r 


00 -1 in 


CO'"' -1 

CO in 


(n'o' 


^ 


«; o cj o 


00 


000 


(N in ■«• 


incs 


in in in 


6 






W C-3 o o 


COQ0_ 


»0 lO 


CD r- CO 


.n 3> r- 






& 


^ O (- o> 


CO r' 


t-'-o-'co 


CO t-' s{ 


cn'ooco" 


CO coco 






3 


e O Oi OS 


cninc^ 


05 10 •cr 


(on>n 


00 — CO 


-3* CO 


z 


< 


►^C^C^^G^ 










Oi 




s^ lO CO GO 


lo ira 


0=0 


in 00 ?o 


in c} 


in in 


CO 


3 


•y O -^ O 


f-. ^_t3> 


CO 


ct 00 t- 


00 CO 






a 


^e ^ t- 3i 


CO 01 -^ 


r-' tt co' 


!o' t- -J- 


woo 


CT CO 


00 


4^§§ 


as .0 £^ 


in ^ 


COCO in 


00 c^( CO 


s^" 


c< 




to CO t- C5 


00 OJ 


000 


t~ i~ 


in ^ 


in in in 


^ 


H 




•l) CC "TT CO 


00 crsco 


000 


COCO t- 


t-- — 




_ ''* 


o 


C 
3 


^r^lCilO^ 


oco — * 


05 coco 


00 in -^ 


t-^ ig* 


cnc'jci 


ro — 




s o oi cn 


C»iOi> 


en io-» 


coco in 


OOC-iCO 


rN"^ — 


cio" 




"^ 


•^ r^ G^(?i 










c! in 






to -rf O O 


o» 


000 


00 CO 


in (TJ 


in in in 









« t^ OS o 


^C0 02 




o_o-. 


co.-o C>J 




~,S 




^ -, coo 


^ C5 CO 


t-' QC ai 


— " 00' 0' 


ooco'o' 


CO TTCO 


00 Oi 




s 


s c:? oio 




05 -3" CO 


CO ro 


CO CO r- 


— — ^ 


CO 0' 




•*-(C0 c»co 










r- 00 






to — . lO o 


CO 


000 


— com 


IT» 


in LO in 









o o; c^ to 


(?) CI 


lO 


00 1- 


Si ^^ 01 




O) 




a, 


^ .7^ 1-- o 


CO jO 


CO ^ d 


CO i^ 


^ CO ^ 


in — 35 


TTCT 




c: o Oi o 


t^ ^ CO 


r-TTCo 


CO CO '^ 


cr. r2i^ 


CO C CO 


in CI 




•-iCC -ICO 
















o^ ^ lO t- 


= — ' 


000 


t^ 


LO UOOO 


LO LO 


CO 






«^ O aD .O 


CO -^ -r 


>c uo 


OCO-- 


CT> — CO 








p 


-^CO o o 










■^ — 


3: CO 








O) -• ^' 


•^□00 


tjio) CO 


co' rj Lo' 








.s: o :::3 o 


1^ r* 10 


I- CO rj 


in CO •3' 


OS T t^ 


^ — CO 


in CO 




s 


*^m CM CO 
















to CO CO o 


= XI 


000 


CO 


m i^ 


in in in 


_ 




^ 


ft) ir: CO t-^ 


000 (?} 


m uoo 


ino CT 


— OT 




a> 




^ n CO o 


10 CO -H 


LO CO Cl 


ci c5 


r-* rM X» 


CO »n "^ 


t~ 00 




tb 


Is's^ 


CO CO 


CO cori 


iniTJTf 


ocot^ 


coino 


coco 




« — ' o •* 


10 


000 


I^ CO TT 


-1* 


in in 


CO 






nj 'O CT lO 


"3- T.-7) 


lO 10 »c 


— CO CO 


CO COO! 




•^ 




c 


^c^too 


° t-H 00' IT! 


^' 0'^ 


30' — 


I- T« in 


d\ CO 


T 




■^ 


Is'SS 


(ocri-a- 


coco CO 


m t>j ^ 


OICCOO 


— — XI 


t-'jo 






: : : 


i i i 


















> 




























>• '. '. 




K . 








jO 




li '■ ' 


< 














y • ■ 




■a . 








!S 


K : : 


a ■ • 

^ : ■ 
u : • 
s - ; 

£ '• • 






H 






^ ' ' 




tB '. 




X 




US 





Pi 

H 













a . . 

Ci] . ■ 




<2 • 




c 




I 

a 

00 




S 1 : 

a ; • 




g 
(a 






a 






> ; ; 

< '. ! 


ci " Cd 

■a >>-c3 ^ 

>- 's >> = 
S c.S i 










H 












Bi j I 


— '2 "^ K 
























: "5 ° 






2 cd 


• CC ^ 


I « r 




\ 2 t3 


« S 


s s s ■.?& 






S S 


'P •- r 


£ = 1 




1:5 c 


^ ^ ^ ~ '^ 
E c S ?.= 






rt .5 s 


ci .5 : 




C5 .„ 1 


= 33 3 - 






SSS 


= sss 


; ^ 


SIS 


5K 


t 


l?- 


;2 


sss 


2 


2 


a 




c 


J<^ 1 



METEOROLOGY. 

Meteorohgkal Ohsei-vations — Contioued. 



309 



1853-'54-'55-'56-'57. 



Ist days and 2d force of N. wind . . 
Do do NE. wind. 



Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 



.do.. 

.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 



. .E. W'fid.. , 
..SE. wind., 
. .S. wind..., 
..SW. wind , 
. , W. wind. , 



[!o N W. wind . 



MONTHLY MEANS. 



5 &-15 

1 7-15 

1 8-15 

7 

2 14-15 

1 13-15 

8-15 

10 2-15 



4 7-15 
1 1-15 

1 8-1 .i 
6 1-15 

2 4-15 
2 6-15 

10-15 
9 n-15 



3 2-15 


1 2-15 


1 2-15 


5 10-15 


3 8-15 


6 6-15 


1 4-15 


8 11-15 



3 7- 


1.5 


8-1.51 


15- 


-1.5 


4 14-1.51 


4 9- 


-15 


7 4- 


-15 


1 7- 


-15 


6 14- 


-15 



1 3-15 


5-15 


8-15 


6 4-15 


7 G-lo 


8 9-15 


13-15 


5 12-15 



1.4 

0.8 
0.2 
1.9 
1.9 
1,8 
1.6 
1.8 



i853-'54-'55-'56-'57. 



Ist days and 2d force of N. wind... 

Do. do NE. wind.. 

Do do E. wind... 

Do do SE wind. . 

Do do S. wind 

Do do SW. wind. 

Do do VV. wind... 

Do do N\V. wind. 



MONTHLY MEANS. 



I 

1 14-15' 1.2 

5-15: 1.3 

6-15 0.7 

5 .?-!5 1.9 
8 3-15' 2.2 

6 6-15 2.0 
14-15 1.5 

6 9-15 1 



1 6-1.5 1.2 13-15 
3-15! 0.8 7-15 
2-15| 1.2 5-15 

9 2-1.5 2.2 12 1-15 

8 1-15 2.1 7 10-15 

6 11-15 2.2 7 6-15 

2 6-15' l.y 9-15 



2 14-15 1.51 1 10-151 1.3 



2 6-15 
1 1-15 
10-1 
7 

5 2-15 

6 8-15 
1 4-15 



1 


3 1.3-15 


0.7 


10-15 


0.8 


10-15 


1.6 


5 5-15 


2.1 


2 12-15 


1.6 


5 5-15 


1 


1 


2.0 


11 5-15 



1.3 
0.9 
1.2 
1.7 
2.1 
1.7 
1.3 
1.6 





1853-'54'-55-'56-'57. 


MONTHLY MEANS. 


ANNDAL MEANS. 




November. 


a 


i 

ei 


ci 
n 


i 


5 years. 


1st days 
Do 




5 5-15 
1 12-15 

2 2-15 
5 3-15 
2 

3 3-15 
13-15 

9 7-15 


2.2 
1.5 
1.3 
2.9 

2.9 
1 7 
2.0 

2.5 


4 8-15 
3 4-15 
2 

3 5-15 
1 4-15 

4 9-15 
12-15 

11 3-15 


1.7 
1.6 
1.3 
2.3 
1.5 
2.3 
0.0 
1.8 


1 5 
1.1 
1.0 
1.9 
1.9 
1.7 
1.3 
1.8 






38 1 15 


do NE. wind 

do E. wind 

. do SE wind 






12 5 15 


Do . 






11 13-15 


Do.. 
Do . 






77 .3-15 
55 13-15 


Do 


do SVV. wind...... 






66 8-15 


Do.. 






12 10 15 


Do 


do NW. wind 


90 7 15 











Remarks — The mean mean of the barometer for July is apparently higher than that of June, in consequence 
of some pnciiliar disturbing causes in June, 1853 ; which month should have been regarded as e.xceptional. 
1856 beim; leap-year, of cour&e a fractional part must enter into the average of the clear and cloudy days for 
February, as well as of the number of the days of the wind. 



310 METEOROLOGY. 



ON THE BEST HOURS OF DAILY OBSERVATION TO FII^D 
THE MEAN TEMPERATURE OF THE YEAR. 

BY PROF. CHESTER DEWEY. 

The mean temperature of a day is to be obtained, originally, from 
observations of the thermometer, taken twenty-four times daily, or 
double that number. The mean of daily and hourly observations of 
this kind must give a close approximation to the actual mean tem- 
perature. From a series of such hourly observations the two, or three^ 
or four hours may be selected, which will give nearly an equivalent 
result. 

The large Meteorological Society of Manheim, in Germany, selected 
the hours of 7 a. m. and 2 and 9 p. m., but I could find no reason for 
this selection in any accessible work, when I began observations in 
meteorology in 1815, In 1816 and 1817 I made twenty-four hourly 
observations of five days each in the different seasons ; the first of the 
kind on record, so far as I know, being made for thirty days. The 
mean of the 24 observations is 41°. 50 ; of 10 a. m. and 10 p. m, 41°. 45; 
and of 7, 2 and 9 about one desfree higher. Coming so near the mean 
I adopted those hours of the Manheim Society, for the ease of com- 
parison with the results obtained by them. 

The mean of observations at 6 a. m., 2 and 10 p. m., gave a close 
approximation to the mean of 24 observations ; but tlie morning hour 
would be too early for half the year in view of many observers. 

The results of this series of observed temperature I communicated 
to Secretary Calhoun, as he was about to organize the system of 
meteorological observations, so successfully made by the surgeons at 
the military posts of the United States since 1819. These hours were 
adopted for all the posts. 

The fitness of these hours, 7 a. m., 2 p. ra., and 9 p. m, for obser- 
vations, is sustained by the following facts : 

1. By the hourly observations for a year at Leith Fort, Scotland. 
These give the mean of 24 daily observations, 41°. 50 ; of 10 a. m. and 
10 p. m. very nearly the same ; and of 7, 2 and 9 about one-fourth of 
a degree above the mean of the 24 observations. 

2. By the hourly observations at Amherst College, Massachusetts, 
through 1839, under the direction of Prof. Snell. The mean of the 
24 observations is 47°. 23 ; of 10 a. m. and 10 p. m., is 47°. 16; and of 
7, 2 and 9, is 47°. 88. This last, then, is two-thirds of a degree above 
the 24 mean. Prof. Snell shows the mean at 6 a. m.; 2 and 10 p. m. 
is nearly the same as the mean of the 24 observations. 

3. By the " Girard Observations," under the direction of Prof. ' 
Bache, an extensive series of several years, bi-hourly and hourly. 

The mean of 7, 2 and 9 is only three-tenths of a degree above that 
of 24 observations, and from this last, that of 10 and 10, differs only 
one-tenth of a degree. ; 

4. Brooklyn Heights' Observations, hourly, for 1856, by E. Meriam^ 
esq. I have summed only the first seven days in each month. The 
mean of 24 observations is 47°. 72, and of 10 and 10 is very near the 



METEOROLOGY. 3 1 1 

same ; while tliat of 7, 2 and 9 is 48°. 28, or greater than the 24 mean 
by one-half a, degree nearly. 

5. At Sacramento, Cal., lat. 38 N. The 24 mean is 64°. 41, and 
the mean of 7, 2 and 9 is 64°. 11. 

Note — By the last three it is evident that the mean of 7, 2 and 9 
approaches nearer to that of the 24 mean, as the places have a lower 
latitude, and an examination of the 24 hours ohservation in the Arctic 
regions show^quite a departure of the mean of 7, 2 and 9 from the 
mean of 24 observations. 

The 24 hourly observations give the mean of the year — 

At Halle 48°. 00 

AtGottingea 52 82 

At Padua 56 74 

On calculating the mean of 7, 2 and 9, I find that — 

At Halle '. 48 89 

AtGottingen 53 45 

At Padua 57 47 

Observations on the temperature of Salem, Massachusetts, were 
made with much care by Dr. Holyoke for thirty-fchree years precediilg 
1819. The hours of observation were four, viz : 8 a. m., noon, sunset, 
and 10 p. m. By interpolating for sunset, in my series of 24 daily 
observations, I found that the mf-an from these four hours is only a 
little greater than that of the three hours, 7 a. m., 2 and 9 p. m. 
Dr. Hulyoke's mean temperature of Salem is 48.68 degrees. The 
mean heat at Leith, by the 24 daily observations, is 48.24, and by the 
hours, 7, 2 and 9, is 48.50. 

This approximation from these four hours, and one of them variable, 
is another unexpected result. 

Between 1842 and 1855 the observations at the military posts were 
directed to be made at four periods of the day, viz : a little be/ore sun- 
rise as the coldest generally ; at 3 p. m. as the hottest, and at 9 a. m. 
and 9 p. m. as approximating the mean temperature of the day, but 
half the sum of the observations at sunrise, S. R., and 3 p. m. was 
to be taken as the mean heat of the day. In the preparation of the 
"Army Meteorological Register," published in 1856, the fourth part 
of the sura of those four observations was taken as the mean of the 
day, because Dr. Coolidge and his associate became satisfied from 
extensive comparison of the twenty-four daily observations, that the 
mean of ttie four observations was nearer the twenty-four mean, than 
those at sunrise and 3 p. m. would give. Dr. Coolidge states also, 
that the evidence was clear from the comparison of numerous twenty- 
four hourly observations at the posts that the mean of 7, 2, and 9, 
was for all the posts, the nearest approximation of any hours selected 
to the mean of the twenty-four daily observations. In 1855, there- 
fore, the Surgeon G-eneral, Dr. Lawson, issued his circular requiring 
a return to the original hours of observation, viz: 7 a m., 2 p. m., 
and 9 p. m. 

In ascertaining the relative correctness of the results in the " Con- 
solidated Tables" of the Army Meteorological Register, taken for 



312 METEOROLOGY. J 

twenty-three years from the three daily observations, and for twelve 
years from the four hours' record, it was important to make some tests. 
These are as follows : 

1. Prof. Snell performed the labor of interpolating for sunrise in 
liis hourly observations for the year 1839, and sent to me the following 
resuH: While the mean of the twenty-four hourly observations is ;] 
47°. 23, the mean of the four hours, S. R., 9 a. m., 3 and 9 p. m., ig • 
47°. 13, making a difference of only one-tenth of a degree. 

This was an unexpected result, iDut of high interest. My own ob- - ^ 
servations interpolated in the same way gave only a little greater rl 
difference. 

2. The Consolidated Tables in the Army Meteorological Eegister 
yield the following proofs: 

a.— For Fort Columbus, N. Y., p. 600, latitude 40°. 42, 

The mean of 33 years is 51°. 69 I 

The mean of 7, 2, and 9, 21 years, is... .51°.42 I 

The mean of the four hours, 12 years, is 51°. 83 1 

Either hours give a close approximation. 

h. — For Alleghany Arsenal, Penn., p. 605, latitude 40°. 32, 

The mean for 2 1 years is 50°. 86 1 

The mean of 7, 2, and 9, for 9 years is 50°. 43 i 

The mean of four hours, 12 years is 50°. 75 > 

This is another close approximation. 

c— For Fort McHenry, Md., p. 607, latitude 39°. 17, 

The mean of 21 years is 54°. 86 > 

The mean of 7,2, and 9, of 12 years is 53°. 97 ^ 

The mean of four hours, 9 years is 54°. 86 '•■ 

c^.— For Fort Monroe, Va., p. 608, latitude 37°. 00, 

The mean of 30 years is _. 59°. 22 

The mean of 3 hours, 18 years is 59°. 29 

The mean of 4 hours, 12 years is 59°. 04 

e.— For Fort Gibson, Indian Territory, p. 624, latitude 34°. 47, 

The mean of 27 years is 60°. 81 

The mean of 3 hours, 15 years is 61°. 53 '•' 

The mean of 4 hours, 12 years is 60°. 19 I 

/.—For Fort Gratiot, Mich., p. 627, latitude 43°, 

The mean of 14 years is 46°. 29 ' 

The mean of 3 hours, 9 years is 46°. 62 ; 

The mean of 4 hours, 5 years is 45°. 30 •; 

(/.—For Fort Brady, Mich., p. 629, latitude 461°, 

The mean of 26 years is 40°. 37 

The mean of 3 hours, 18 years is 40°. 56 

The mean of 4 hours, — years is 39°. 53 

/i.— For Fort Snelling, Minn. Ter.,p. 632, latitude 45°, 

The mean for 34 years is 44°. 54 

The mean for 3 hours, 22 years is 45°. 17 ' 

The mean for 4 hours, 12 years is 44°. 06 i; 

i. — For Fort Leavenworth, Kan. Ter., p. 633, latitude 39|°, ' 

The mean of 23 years is 52°. 78 

The mean of 3 hours, 12 years is 52°. 35 

The mean of 4 hours, 11 years is 52°. 65 >j| 



i METEOROLOGY. 313 

j Ic. — For Jefferson Barracks, Mo., p. 625, latitude 38^°, 

(The mean of 22 years is 55° 46 

I The mean of 3 hours, 11 years is 56°. 42 

I The mean of 4 hours, 11 years is 55°. 77 

i In all these only whole years are introduced, while in the annual 
I means of tlie Consolidated Tables, parts of years are sometimes intro- 
duced, which will account for a slight discrepancy to be noticed in 
some of the results. 

The conclusion from the above results is that the observations at the 
three hours, and at the four, give close approximations. 

To all this add the assertion of Dr. Coolidge, j)reviously mentioned, 
which led to a return to the hours of 7 a. m,, 2 and 9 p. m., at the 
Military Posts. At these three hours also, the observations under 
the direction of the Smithsonian Institution are made over the country. 

These are convenient hours for recording observations over our ex- 
tensive country, and the results need only slight correction, according 
to the publications in the Toronto Observations, and still less accord- 
ing to the data already detailed. 

From the observations of 1839 at Amherst College, and the results 
communicated by Prof. Snell, I have deduced the following table of 
corrections. Their object is to give the monthly mean, and hence 
the annual mean of twenty-four daily observations, by applying the 
numbers in the table, to the monthly mean at any hour, according to 
their sijjns: 



314 



METEOROLOGY. 



'fe 



c^coooto«fM?:ir^oa>-rcoc^'<rcoocDooc»— 'cpcooo— 'OS — .-lo^vc — '7ii^(?2 



CO^COO?^3:it^t^— "C^t^COGOCIt^COCOOi^OTiO'^C^CnO-— >: 



• CD O CO O O 



I 1 I I I M I I I M 



COOir50i7}X)I^C*30iO(DOTrOOCDC*330^0CT>OCO'X)^TfiOnm'^XiCr* 

<-^ G4 (7) (71 :^ fo CO -^ (71 o c* -=r CO o u^ ro (?} o o o c 1-1 ^ i-H o o ' 



+ 1 I I I I I I I I I 



■> o o o o o o 



rrCJOKTJCO'fXOO'^CO— <— 'CJr-COiCQOiO"^COOCOCDOCO(7Jr-COCny5QOOiC*5 
COCn-a-t-OCOCOClD.-0'^00'-iCiO)X»CJQOCDOaO.— Ol-^r-OO — Ol— '-h;;^ 

CT cj iT^' CO ^ ^ ';;' (7? o .-I CO »io CO m' uo co' (TI o o o =: ^h rn ci o o o o o o o o* o 

+ 11 I I I I I I M I ! I I I I 



'fe. 



I^OCOOirMuOr^ — 00'<*"CTCD'^QOrJ":j.iOO'TfCO<:00-^SSOt7}OI>OJC7if^QOl^ 
C30CO'^OI^COOOrOX)CTOOCM(?10J(?iyD»C(7l^'-05(7lOC^OO — tto-hojo 

■<Tuocor-r^i>co"^o^iOC^ooa5cn90>r5co— 'O^-^co-voo^oooooo 

+ 1 I M I M I I I M II I 



'M CC QO Tf C 



rMccx)rfir!f7)ooo-V(Mt -Cico— 'tt — CTOi^r:ciC^'TPw 



CO — a5L'^aj'v:oi.oiocoo--^jO(7J'TrriO'r--c::tLO-^rooi---t--^Jurocoo-H 

LOCDCDCOC^t^»OC?IoCOi£>XaiCJlSJXCOCO'— 'Or-.OO'^OOOOOOOOOO 

I I I I M M II I II I I 



TfXJCOastO— '00COCOrl*iOCDP0CDr^C0:Dm 



•roci0)oic7i»icco 



..-'coc:C'jy3X>^aiaiC)'5'ao'7)Xcoo?oiX)'Tcoin-=)>inc*oco»ccDr^'-«^cj 
irj ITS CO CO o iQ -^ rH o r^ lo CD CO (- t- CD lo ci '-' o ^ CO co" ■^* o c- o o o o o o o 

11 II I II M II I II I 



oiro^O'M'^'TQoasr-ocoocooo^-cor-TfoOi'^as"^ — Oioasoaoo-^osO) 



CO 30C^ -^ »o — c 



i=)GOQO'r'ngoyr;»o— «ao — ir:3ioi^OJr5"^-'— OGO — cD-^o 



:DCCt--r^i>CDCO--'C5?^:DQ00005f^i>iO'*-iOCOCO-^tOOO'— OOOO — O 

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 



'rQO'7)T = COOOXCiaOQO;DOO*^OOC)-^COOOrjOC>C)"*''^iO'CCOOCO 



-C0<— coOCOOtDQtJOtTJOiOOCfG'lT't—.CliO — OlOO^— ' 



coi^i^aot^co'<r^or7ij0 00c:ic:niaor^cD'^ — Or 

M I II I I I I I II 



iCO-^uOOOOCiOOOOO 

I I I I I 



& s 



2: c^ 



— 'ao--oDaor^C)05 0f:^OJi(Oio»cr--cDr^nocooiCDCoai>ituoiccO'— cD»coccr7> 
lOTTTXi.— I'-crjXfcCi-H^f^^r^iTiGoaioco^f'^c^^^i-ociijo.coifWco — — 

iocor-i^QO»orrr-iOi— 'iocDooaooot^»c-^c?jO'— ic^co-TOoooooooo 

I I I M I M I I I I I I III 

« -.o t~ t-- 00 t-' m n o oi m t-' ai o 35 od i~ -r i-h o r- n rr ■*' o o o o o o o o o 



I I I I I II I 



II I I I I 



co—'tocii^oJCjoocDr-r-GOiO'^-^coiocDr-cooiosoiiOQO— 'Ci^ — co'^oico 

i^*XlCOCDO — 'X::3TUOC'COCDCO— 'G^CD^ — aiJUCTCfOO^Ot^COCD:Oi— < — ^ 

•^ -^r o lO CO CO -^ cm' o ffj '^' CO r-' ao » r- lo' co' o o r 



I 1 



''^OOOOOOOOO 



I I 



s 



xmo-a'oooxooioin(Ncoioo = 3>oxiiracoQOf~cnooioot^'<r«'a"5-?^o) 

ci CO ri to' 'J" t' tt CO -^ o CT rr irj to >o "rn ^' — o o o i-H —■ o o o o =' o =>' o o 



I I 



I I 



I I I I I 



"fe 



O'?'C0C;O)00i0C0CDCDOO)C0O0I'^' 



■*o— <(7»Oic— •aO':oxf--t 



D'jCI— lOt-COi- X^-^C^ — CO-^OOC^ObCO — ^COiOC-^iOOO^CO "TCOCO'.' 

co-^'«^-^-c"'C-^cot-H.-^'«rcor^t~-t^iOcoi7Joor-it7ic7icNOO^'c)OOOoo 

'MM II Mill 



I I I 












sss 



a s = c c 

d. d cL a =. c. d. o. c. ^ 

-((nw*iotot~ooc7)pHr-i 



- s =■ 



■ C3 Ol 



•05 — — . — . ■ 



*COt^35r^r^OC^t^(0 



METEOROLOGY. 315 

To use the table, let the mean of observations at 7 a. m., for the 
month of April be 42°. 5 7 ; apply the correction for that month and 
hour in the table, 5.97, and you have this sum, 48.54, which is the 
mean of the 24 hour observations for that month. 

For the two hours, 7 and 7, in April, you would have — 
^2-57 + 50.23 5.97-1.69:= 48.54 ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ 
2^2 ' 

For the three hours, 7, 2, and 9, in March, take out the three means — 

30.19 H- ^ 3.15 + 32.92 _ 35 42^ and corrections from the tables are 


4.G2 — 8.34 + 1.89 



3 



= — 0.61. 



The sum 34.81 is the mean of the 24 observations 
for the mouth of March. 

Note. — At the foot of the preceding table are given the corrections 
for observations, made at various different hours of the days, to show 
the nearer or more remote approximations to the mean of the 24 daily 
results. 

The first of these is for the hours 3 and 9 a. m., and 3 and 9 p. m., 
the hours adopted by the Royal Society for obtaining the approximate 
mean temperature. These hoiirs are convenient, except that of 3 a. m. 

The next corrections are derived from one-fourth of the observations 
at 7 a. m., 2 p. m., and 2 (9) p. m., the last being twice the temper- 
ature of 9 p. m. Avery near approximation is easily obtained in 
this way : Thus, the mean of the year, in Amherst observations — 

At - - - 7 a. m., is 42°. 46 



At - 

Twice 


- - 2 p.m., 

- - 9 p. m., 

by 4 - - - 
le correction - 


is 
is 


55° 
91° 


.29 
.40 

.15 

.29 
.11 


from 




Sum - 
Divide 
Addtl 


189° 

47° 


the table. 



Approx. mean - - = 47°. 18 
Mean of the 24, hourly = 47°. 23 

Difference - - - - = 0°.05, only ^i^th of a degree. 
Using the same formula for the Leith observations, the approximate 
mean differs from that of the 24 observations only g^J o^h degree. 

And for Toronto 4^0 " 

Franklin arsenal, Pennsylvania 3V0 '' 

Halle, about ^ '' 

Padua, less than ^ " 

Gottingen y^o " 

Girard observations, not -j-^o- *' 

Brooklyn heights about the same. 
The advantages of using the fourth part of the observation at 7 a. 
m., at 2 p. m., and twice that at 9 p. m., are obvious. The preceding 
cases are ample illustration. 

This table of corrections will have a special value in our country 
from the locality in the heart of New England, where the observa- 



316 METEOROLOGY. 



M 



tions were made. No similar table has before been derived from tlietn. 
While it presents the analogies of other similar tables, it will be 
better adapted to a large district of our country where meteorological 
observations are being made systematically. Some gratification will 
result to Professor Snell in such an application of his laborious and 
scientific efforts, in this particular, in 1839. 

Such tables, it is evident, avail nothing where one or more times of - 
observation, as sunrise or sunset, have a constant change, even though; 
they may give an approximate mean. In different latitudes sunrise> 
has different hours, as well as sunset, and the corrections must requirer 
a far greater series of observations and far more labor. Though thei 
four hours used at the military posts for several years give an approxi- '■ 
mate mean, no correction for the sunrise observation is yet obtained.! 

So great is the labor of making the observations, and of discussing 
them for practical purposes, that the fewest practicable hours, noti 
exceeding three, should be adopted for the observations of meteor- 1 
ologists generally. Only a few observers, who are favorably situated 'i 
also, can afford to make hourly observations for a year or for years;; 
and when such have been made, as enable observers to make the cor-- 
rections from prepared tables^ the great object will be attained by 
using only three hours of observation. The last line of corrections in i 
the preceding table is derived from six hours of observation, used for' 
some time at the Toronto Observatory, viz: six and eight a. m.j two 
and/owr and ten p. m., and ituelve, or midnight. Though the correc- 
tions are very small for these six hours, they are too numerous fori 
ordinary object or advantage. The same objection lies against the 
use of any four hours separated by six hours, as one and seven, both 
a. m. and p. m.; which^ however, give very nearly the mean of 24 
observations a day. Some of these hours will be very inconvenient 
and troublesome. Take even the hours adopted by the Royal Society, 
3 and 9 a. m., and 3 and 9 p. m. ; 3 a. m. is a very inconvenient hour, 
though the four give very nearly the mean of the daily 24 observa- 
tions, as shown in the first line of particular hours. 

In a series of observations of twelve years, like those in the "Army; 
Meteorological Register" of 1856, these four hours, or any four hours,; 
would require a million more observations than the three hours, be- 
sides increasing the labor of the reductions one-third more than is ■ 
necessary to attain the same approximation to accuracy. 

It is hoped that adequate evidence of the value of observations at 
the hours 7, 2 and 9, has been presented, and that a near approxi- 
mation to the true mean is attainable. The results may be corrected, 
if need be, by the prepared tables. 

Rochester University, March 31, 1858. 



METEOROLOGY. 



317 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS AND RESULTS. 

BY J. WIESSNER. 

1st. The daily results of mean temperature of the air in shade, as 
)bserved on a farm in the District of Columbia. 

2d. The monthly results. 

3d. A trial adjustment, assuming that the mean motion of tem- 
perature may be represented by the motion of an elastic ball jumping 
ip and down. 

4th. A comparison of the Washington summer with the summers 
it Naples, Rome, Constantinople, Petersburg, and Savannah. 

The probable error for the Washington series being very small, 
shows that the observations were made carefully and in large num- 
3er ; also, that the last summer was a very regular one. 

The figures in the former table for adjusting the daily observations 
tiave the probable error dr 0°.3, so that ten years' further observa- 
tions will make them correct to the last figure. 

Next, a table containing p for each day of observation. By 
jsing the three tables and the simple formula ?„ = ^m + P ^^5 ^11 
the observations now at the end of 1857, 4,500 in number, may be 
recomputed and compared with the individual records, which will 
^ive an average probable error of a single observation and reduction, 
= zb 1°.4. 

Mean temperature of the air in the shade of the District of Columbia. 



Date. 


October. 


November 


December, 


Januarj', 


February, 


March, 


Remarks. December, 




1855. 


1855. 


18.55. 


1856. 


1856. 


1856. 




1856.t 


1 


°F. 


.57.4 
59.0 
68.3 


39.4 
38.0 
42.1 


21.4 
29.5 
30.4 


28.8 
23.0 
10.2 


31.8 
34.2 
33.3 


Mean for this period 
36°. 1, or after ad- 
justment, 35°. 8. Let 


° 


3 






2 






4 




55.0 
48.6 
50.2 
54.3 
55.2 
48.9 
44.2 
52.2 
56.0 
59.0 
49 3 
49.6 


45.5 
36.7 
39.2 
40.3 
35.6 
.55.2 
35.8 
28.6 
26.0 
34.7 
32.0 
39.6 


15.8 
18.5 
26.4 
28 2 
16.7 
5 
2.5 
11.0 
22.6 
30.9 
30.0 
27.5 


7.5 
14.0 
16.9 
33.8 
33 1 
29.0 
29.2 
33.3 
24.1 

8.6 
10.6 
96.9 


42.1 
30.7 
34.2 
28.8 
35.6 
19.6 
15.1 
27.9 
34.0 
29.7 
36.1 
36.3 


fi be the number 
of weeks before or 
after the vveck, 
(Feb.2— 8,)-j-after, 
— before; then the 
adjustment gave 
the mean tempera- 
ture for any week 
// bv the formula : 
tm."=25°.3+ 0.130 
/<" with the proba- 
ble error, ^^ 4°. 5. 




5 






6 


62.8 
46.4 
45.5 
52.6 
58.8 
60.6 
45.9 
41.4 
48.9 
58.3 








8 




9 




10 




11 




12 




13 




14 




15 




16 


53.8 


63.5 


55.6 


27.9 


34.7 


31.6 


The probable error 


28.7 


17 


46 2 


47.0 


45.3 


27.1 


19.2 


35.4 


oftheweeklvnieans 


27.0 


18 


53.6 


46 8 


36.5 


25.5 


21.2 


39.2 


as found from ob- 


19 8 


19 


55 4 


41.4 


27.9 


27.9 


19.4 


34.7 


servations, was + 


23.0 


20 


."58.6 


35.0 


30.0 


16.0 


31.6 


42.3 


1°.8. 


35.2 


21 


60.6 


40.1 


35 6 


17.1 


31.6 


41 9 




21.7 


22 


.1-2.2 


38.5 


43.0 


18.9 


35.6 


39.4 




18.5 


23 


42.1 


35.6 


50.2 


17.4 


38.0 


40.3 




13.4 


24 


38.7 


46.4 


40.6 


17.8 


33.1 


41.4 




22.2 


25 


38.7 


38.5 


33.4 


17.6 


34.7 


39.9 




25.8 


26 


42.1 


51.3 


24.3 


1 11.8 


33.1 


38.3 




31.9 


27 


49.1 


43.8 


19.2 


1 93.2 


30.6 


36.5 




33.4 


28 


58.6 


39.9 


30.7 


29.8 


31.8 


* 




41.8 


29 


51.8 


a5.3 


23.7 


23.4 


33.5 






39.2 


30 


60.3 
55.8 


30.3 


26.0 
26.0 


17.4 
1 15.8 








32 8 


31 






30.2 










Mvun.. . 


51.5 


47.8 


36.0 


20.7 


26.1 


34.5 


27.8 



■ Thermometer broke. 



t New station and thermometer, east corner District of Columbia. 



318 METEOROLOGY. 

A table, [lo], of use for the reduction of observations for temperai!; 
ture of the air in the shade, made at different hours of the day by thi 
formula 

ig. The observed temperature. 

t^. The mean of the 24/i. 

p. A factor depending on the disposition of the atmosj)here for solai 
heat, the mean factor of the month being unit. 

p w. The correction to the mean temperature of the day to get ou 
the observed one. 

t^ and p are to be found for each day by the method of least squares' 
or by a good approximation to it, by a calculation shown on the next 
page. 



METEOROLOGY. 319 

Example. 
Reduction of observation for temperature by the formula 
East corner of the District ot Columbia, September 1, 1857. 







Observed. 


1 




Equations of condition. 


Conip'd A. 


A.M. 5 


m. 
30 


o 
55.0 = 


'm — 8 2 


P 


— 18.4 = — 


10. 8>) 


o 

56.9 


— 1.9 


G 


00 


57.8 = 


f.-7.6 


P 


— 15.6 = — 


10.2 p 


57.8 


0.0 


7 


00 


63.8 = 


^™ - 4 2 


P 


— 9.6 = — 


6.8 ^j 


63.0 


+ 0.8 


8 


00 


67.8 = 


«. + 0.3 


P 


— 5.6 = — 


2.3 p 


69 8 


— 2.0 


9 


00 


73.8 = 


^. + 2 5 


P 


4- 0.4 = ~ 


0.1 JO 


732 


+ 0.6 


10 


00 


77.0 = 


'.+ 5.4 


P 


+ 3.6 = + 


2.8p 


77.7 


— 0.7 


11 


00 


80.8 = 


'. + 7-3 


P 


+ 7.4= + 


4.7i> 


80 6 


+ 0.2 


P M. 12 


15 


83 = 


'. + 9 


P 


+ 9.6= + 


6.4/9 


83.2 


— 2 


1 


15 


83.8 = 


'. + 9-4 


P 


+ 10.4= + 


6.8 p 


83 8 


0.0 


2 


00 


83.8 = 


L+9.3 


P 


+ 10.4= + 


6.7 p 


^3.7 


+ 0.1 


3 


00 


83 = 


tr. + 9-0 


V 


+ 9.6= + 


6.4 p 


83.2 


— 0.2 


4 


00 


81.8 = 


'. + 8.0 


P 


+ 8.4 = + 


5.4 p 


81.7 


+ 0.1 


5 


00 


79.8 = 


'. + 6.4 


P 


+ 6.4= + 


3.8 JO 


79.2 


+ 0.6 


7 


15 


70.5 = 


L + 0.1 


V 


— 2.9 =: — 


2 5 p 


69.6 


+ 0.9 


8 


15 


67.5 = 


tr. - 1-9 


'P 


— 5.9 = — 


4.5 p 


66.5 


+ 1.0 


y 


00 


66. = 


^.-2.8 


P 


— 7.4 = — 


5.4^ 


65.7 


+ 0.3 




73.4 = 


'.+ 2.6 


P 


131.2 = 


85.5^3 


*i' A 


= 9.6 



* i' A = 9.6 : 15.5 = 0.62 
0.09 



Normal eq.. 

No. of observations, 16. 
Result, 



± 0.53 



p= 1.53 

t^— 69^.4 ±0.13 

£o= ± 0.5 



320 



■1V.3X 



•uolSur 



•J8qW3AO|SI 



•jaqojDQ 



•jsqiuajdag 



•jsnSnv 



•Xitif 



•Xniv 



•nJdy 



•llDiEIV 



•.Ocnjqa^j 



•XiBnucf 



•uoi3ui 



METEOEOLOGT. 

f^- 1 i i I I I I I +++++++++++ 1 I I I I 

(M CJ Q» c^ CQ ir; o -T -^ -^ TT CO r^ t^ 1:0 ro ^ o o r-H ^ ,— " Ci ©I 

I I I I I I M I +++++++++ 1 I M I I 

OltTliCOOOC^^-C^Tj't^'^CCCO^LOt^-^OOiQiOOOG'lCOOO 

r^-^'^-^-<j'r^co'«TO(rjiot^oOQOt^icr?r-«'ooocJCQCQ 

I M I I I I I I ++++++++++ 1 I I I I 

■^Ot?}l-^O^i0TPOC:!O^»-'CDCN'rO00rQQ0OOin(?J 

loiocscDt-xcscQ-i'^t^cnoooodini— (Oi-HCo-^-^io 

I I 1 1 1 1 I I ++++++++++ 1 1 1 1 1 I 

(caoco'^GOoox'5^oo.-<i-Troo-rcccooo(:MaiC!i— 000 

CC CD t^ t^ I^ X O -^ ■-- VO (-- Oi Cf-- c: 31 CO (D C-I O --"' CO ■*" O lO 

i 1 I I M I I +++++++++++ Mill 

cr5f7}OOXiOI-^:DCOr*0'^?3.-HiC»«000(71?OiCOOOlQO 
(D 00 ci O oi O C^' O CO »0 1-- 33 aJ oi 00 *^' CD C5 -h' -^" oj ci rr lo" 

(?)t^CQf^r-liOOCOOOlCOO-^OC*5CMCO^f--05ClTrCO 

t^t^a)oot^'^ojocoiccot^QOadoot-^cDCO--^'-HC>j'q^iri(o 
c^-^oo^0^tox>w»r5r^cMooo.— iO'»:j'--^PO'<riOOi — 

COOiOi — OOOOO^CQOt>QOOOa>CISOOO'^'-i-^0)^iOr^ 

M M 11 I ++++++++++++ Mill 

f-ir-«Ot^C^OOt*.-<OOOOt^Ol'^lOI>C5500sOO?3"^COiO 

CiOf-i^otooii-'COtooocDoooosr^'rorHci'^irir^ 

m777 I 1+ +++++++++++ 1 MM 

03as'3't*ooiocot*«5i-(Tfc<?ocooiir3i>-Tj'eDoooTroi 

tor-sso— 40S'^ooJ»cr^odo5CTiaiaor^Tf^'o^cO'ro 

M m7 M I +++++++++++ 1 MM 

icoototoooirjc>j,— i{Xi-^(Dt^coooQ6;0(?JOOi-«£ricQfo 

II II II M +++++++++++ II II I 

OQOo— tLoaiTj'oor--cot^oGO^(?5r5©}050i— i£?Jor^ 
■^Tru^ini04or^ir^c^cO'TCoodcxjoot>^iocooo'"C')roro 

M II 11 I I I ++++++++++ MM 
^ II II I M M ++++++++++ Mill 



METEOROLOGY. 



321 



Mean temperature of the air, in the shade, of the Didrict of Columhia. 



857 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 



1 

2 

i3 

11 

5 

6 

7 

I 

10 
1 
-2 

!3 
!4 
to 

17 
« 
9 
10 
1 



F. 
30 3 
38.7 
2&A 

29.0 
3). 5 
23.5 
SI.O 
11.6 
20.4 
28.1 
30.0 
17.4 
21.9 
23.0 
23.9 
11.9 
31.9 
4.7 
14.0 
17.1 
33.1 
6.7 
4.1 
7.4 
11.0 
10.0 
37.7 
3-2.7 
33 9 
27.1 
36.4 



35.7 
23.7 
19.0 
42.0 
46.2 
54.0 
49.8 
52 3 
27.2 
25 1 
17.5 
26.0 
38.6 
4U.6 
53.1 
59.8 
6it.O 
56.0 
62.3 
39.0 
47.7 
38.6 
44.4 
52.0 
61.9 
41.8 
38.7 
42.8 



40.0 
22.6 
21.9 
33.7 
34.6 
36.7 
26.4 
93 9 
29.4 
27.0 
33.5 
29.0 
26.7 
38.4 
40.2 
43.1 
45.1 
53.1 
41.9 
44.1 
48.4 
48.9 
48.6 
60.1) 
52.0 
41.0 
41.2 
44.0 
40.4 
46 4 
45.8 



48 3 
30.7 
34.7 
49.6 
60.7 
48.0 
33.7 
44.1 
50 5 
46.6 
50.0 
43.9 
37.0 
42.3 
4a. 3 
40.3 
38.7 
39.2 
41.5 
35.1 
40.5 
39.5 
45.9 
47.2 
51.2 
52.3 
56.3 
53.8 
50.4 
51.4 



51.1 
60.0 
62.8 
61.1 
63.4 
61.1 
56.9 
61.0 
62.0 
68.7 
51.3 
51.9 
57.4 
63.5 
58.4 
57.5 
59.2 
50.0 
43.6 
44.5 
50.8 
60.6 
64.9 
67.7 
71.7 
72.5 
69.7 
67.4 
64.8 
65.8 
71.1 



72 9 
70.1 
68.3 
68.5 
53.8 
61.3 
68.8 
70.9 
68.0 
65.6 
68.8 
70.7 
75.0 
75.3 
75.2 
79.7 
75.8 
75.8 
67 9 
75.2 
74.6 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 



74.7 
75.9 
74.3 
75.6 
79.0 
77.6 
77.7 
76.1 
75.3 
75.7 
81 5 
80.8 
78.0 
75.0 
71.9 
73.9 
76.7 
79.8 
79.2 
79.0 
77 7 
74.2 
75.2 



74.9 
74.6 
74.5 
72.5 
72.8 
73.7 
71.8 
73.1 
77.0 
74.9 
75.0 
76.5 
81.3 
64.4 
82 5 
73.6 
76.8 
75.3 
71.8 
69.3 
66.8 
67.1 
70.0 
66.4 
64. 7 
70.6 
69.4 
76.5 
68.7 
65.2 
63.7 



G9.5 
71.4 
69.5 
74.5 
75.4 
73 5 
58.8 
58.0 
63.1 
69.0 
71.1 
72.6 
73.0 
73.3 
71.6 
65.3 
78.3 
76.3 
61.8 
64.7 
61.0 
6.1.4 
.W.8 
57.8 
.59.2 
65.4 
67.5 
66.5 
54.5 
49.7 



54.7 
61.8 
63.2 
56.5 
56 6 
54.4 
.54.7 
53.7 
.55.9 
58.4 
.59.6 
64.0 
65.2 
67.0 
63 2 
53 6 
.50.8 
.53.7 
61.6 
43.2 
40.6 
43.5 
49 5 
53.2 
54.8 
49.2 
48.0 
41.9 
45.7 
45.2 
49 -« 



46.0 
50.0 
43.3 
42.6 
53.3 
64.9 
66.7 
71.9 
71.5 
43.4 
39.5 
42.3 
50.5 
37.6 
30.0 
41.6 
45.3 
46.5 
41.8 
26.4 
31.0 
42.0 
47.8 
33.7 
22.0 
22.0 
S9.8 
32.5 
41.0 
41.7 



44.6 
37.8 
44.3 
37.4 
43.0 
43.6 
44.7 
55.7 
64.5 
45.8 
37.3 
29.5 
3U.0 
40.6 
41.8 
40 4 
45.0 
52.2 
43.6 
35.2 
34.8 
42.0 
38.7 
35.5 
30.3 
32.7 
30.4 
37.3 
40.4 
38.5 
38.9 



Hean 29.4 



38.9 



60.4 



70.6 



76.7 



72.9 



53.7 



43.2 



53^8 



40.6 



* New thermometer from the Smithsonian Institution, 
t Thermometer broke during the hailstorm of June 21. 



21 s 



322 



METEOEOLOGY. 



Adjustment of temperature for Washington, Summer 1857. 



Obs. 



Assumerl eq. of 
conilition. 



— 3 

— 2 


April — 3 
May — 2 




44.9 = x — SyJ^Qz 
60.4 = 1 — 2!/-J-4c 


— 1 


June — 1 




70.6 = x — \ y ^ \ z 





July 




76.7 = X 


+ 1 


Aug. -f 1 




72.9 = x-\.\y^\z 


+ 2 


gept. + 2 
Oct. + 3 




66.. "5 =:a- + 2v + 4s 
53.7 =z X + "i y + ^ z 




63.7 = X +42 
11.6 






+ 



— IS.S = — ?, y + 5 z 

— 3.3 = — 2 1/ 

+ G.9 = — 1 y — 3 z 

+ 13.0 = — 4 z 

+ 92 = +:;/ — S^r _ 



+ 2.8 = + 2 1/ 

— 10.0 = -f 3 ij + 5 



Normal Eq. 
~ .i7.9 = 20 a- 
+ 17.3 =l-iy 



- 18,8 +18.8 

- 6.9 + 3.3 


— 


6 

10 


- 13.0 + 9.2 


+ 
+* 


16 

34 


- 9.2 + 2.8 

- 10.0 


17 



57.9 



Solution. 
z = — 'Z. 
?/ = +!■ 
X = 75. 



Washington, Summer, 75°. ^ F. -j- 1. 4 m — 2. 90 nj^ _j- qo. 5. 



•April. 



+ 75 3 

— 4.2 

— 26.1 



+ 45.0 
Kc^id'ls— 
— 0.1 



May. 



+ 75.3 
_ 2.8 
— 11.6 



75.3 
1.4 
2.9 



+ 60.9 + 71.0 
— 0.5 — 0.4 



July. 



+ 75.3 

+ 1-4 
— 2.9 



+ 75.3 
+ 1.4 



+ 73.8 
— 0.9 



Sept. 



+ 753 
+ 2.8 
— 11.6 



+ 66.5 
0.0 



Oct. 



Sum of Resid. 



+ 75.3 
+ 4.2 
— 26.1 



+ 53.4 
+ 0.3 



— 1.9 



3.3:6 = 0..5 
O.ll 

± 0.4 



Mean. 
1.4:5.8 = 0.24 
24 30 

7,2 
15.5 

23tli 



Blaximum y tonip, July 23, 75°. 4 
75.3 
+ 0.3 
— 0.2 



75.4 



For comparison — 

The summer of Naples Lat. 40°. 9 

Rome 41.9 

Const uitinople 

Petersburg.... .59.8 61.7+ 0.9 7n 

Savannah..... 32.1 80.2+ 0.6 Jft 



°.0 + 1.3 TO— 1.75 TO= + 0.7 

3.9 + 1 3 JM — 1.69 m" ± 0.7 

7.7+ 1.3 m— 2.05 m^ + 1.5 

2.70 m" + 0.8 

1.28 m» ± 0.7 



METEOROLOGY. 323 

OBSERVATIONS ON NATURAL PHENOMENA. 

BY STILLMAN MASTERMAN, ESQ. 

Weld, Maine, February 26, 185T. 

Dear Sir : Pnrsuaat to my promise, I present to you the registry 
of certain miscellaneous natural phenoraena observed l3y myself during 
a few past years, belonging principally to the departments of meteor- 
ology and astronomy. Fragmentary and unsystematic as the obser- 
vations are, they can be of comparatively little value ; however_, as 
every phenomenon of nature, even the most trifling, is worthy of a 
place in the great study of the universe, and as you are desirous of 
collecting all registries of natural phenomena, I deem it proper to 
place them at your disposal. The accompanying observations were 
made with no idea of placing them before the public, but under the 
conviction that perhaps they might be of some use in my future scien- 
tific investigations. Moreover, they were conducted during fragments 
of time which happened not to be taken up by what I considered to be 
more imjtortant duties, therefore in many cases they are separated by 
long intervals of time, not from the want of phenoraena to oDservc, 
but from an inability to make trustworthy observations. So few ob- 
servations afford very insufficient data for generalizations ; however, 
the coincidence of certain results with those derived fr,)m more exten- 
sive series are frequently very apparent. The following are some of 
the well known principles which the annexed observations tend to 
confirm : 

1. That shooting stars have been more numerous, at,least for a few 
past years, on or about the 10th of August, and for a number of days 
both befor > and after that date, than at other times of the year. 

2. Tliat these meteors frequently leave long bright trains behind 
them in the sky. 

3. That during an exhibition they commonly have one general 
direction of motion. 

4. That exhibitions of the aurora borealis commonly commence at 
an early hour of the evening. 

5. That auroral exhibitions generally have their maximum before 
midnight. 

6. That in our latitudes auroras have been seen in all parts of the 
sky. 

7. That the zodiacal light may be seen, in the absence of the moon, 
on clear evenings during the months of January, February, and 

i March. 

8. That this cone of light lies nearly in the plane of the ecliptic. 

9. That the zodiacal light at times may be traced above 90° from 
the sun. 

Yours, truly, 

STILLMAN MASTERMAN. 
Professor Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



324 METEOKOLOGY. 

A. 

OBSEEVATIONS OF SHOOTING STARS. 

WELD, FRANKLIN COUNTY, MAINE. 

1847 — December 11. — At 8A. 30m. p. m. I saw a very brilliant 
shooting star, which i'ell in the northwest. I should judge that when ■ 
it was in sight I could have read the smallest print without difficulty 
in its light. It left a bright streak or tail of phosphorescent matter, i 
60*^ or 70° in length, which remained motionless for about 30 seconds, •■ 
when it gradually vanished. The nucleus of light was apparently of i 
three-fourths the diameter of the lunar orb, and it was about 2 seconds 1 
in passing over 70° of the celestial sphere, disappearing very near the 
horizon. 

1849 — Septemher 15. — Saw three large shooting stars. 

jSeptemher 19. — Observed three shooting stars. 

September 20. — At 8A. p. m. I observed a brilliant shooting star, i 
enveloped in a nebulous mist, and having a cylindrical cometic tail, 1 
4° in length. It shot out brilliant jets or tufts of rays from its nucleus \ 
on its foremost side, which were bent back into the tail, presenting, : 
in miniature, the phenomena of Halley's comet, so conspicuous to 
astronomers, during its last return in 1835. It passed between a An- 
dromecloi and /3 Fegasi, towards Fomalhaut, describing 60° of the 
heavens in about 2 seconds' time. I also observed two other shooting 
stars on the same evening. 

October 3, evening. — Saw two shooting stars. 

JSIovemher 14. — In the evening I saw four shooting stars. 

1850 — August 4. — At 8A. 30m. p. ra. I observed a large meteoric 
star. Its path was marked by a trail of light nearly 15' in Avidth, 
which disappeared in about 4 seconds' time. Its path lay from a 
Cygni to near £ Sagittarii. 

August 5. — At 2h. p. m. saw two shooting stars. The first appeared 
to be as bright and to subtend nearly the same angle as the planet 
Jupiter. It passed from Unuk al Ray in the Serpent to Arcturus in 
about three-lourths of a second. The other appeared like a mere line 
of light described by a brilliant point, and vanished in an instant. 

August 7. — At 9A. 30w. p. m. saw a meteoric star, apparently to 
pass from near o Draconis by j3 of that constellation to the foot of 
Btrcides. It appeared to be a streak or trail of light about 8° in 
length, and, if my measurement of time can be trusted, it described 
an arc of 30° in less than a half second. 

August 9. — In the evening saw four shooting stars. 

August 10. — Between 87i. 30m. and 9/i. 20m. p. m. I saw thirty-four 
shooting s+ars, some of which were very brilliant. All excepting four 
small ones appeared to pass down the Via Lacte, or near to and 
parallel with it, from the northeast to the southwest, some as follows : 
h/i. 30m., one passed from near e Cygni, between a and ^Q Aquilce, to 
the 31illc Dipper in Sagittarius ; Sh. 35. m, two passed from Dculeus 
to the head of Capricornus ; Sh. 40m., one passed from yj OphiucJii to 



! ' METEOROLOGY. 325 

Scorpio; S7i. 48m., one passed from Scutum Sohieski to j Saglttarii ; 
ISA. 5Sm., observed two at the same instant, having their paths nearly 
{parallel with each other, and about 8° apart. One passed to the cast 
and the other to the west of the Milk Dipper. All of the foregoing 
seven meteors were accompanied by trails of liglit. 

August 11 — Between l/i. and 'Ih. a. m., saw twenty-one shoot- 
ing stars during ten minutes' observation. They passed down the 
\3lilky Way Irom Oygnus to Scutum Sohieski. A greater part of them 
Weie attended by trails of light, 

I September 1. — At about 9A. 10m. p. m., there was a brilliant meteor 
in the west, which approached the horizon rather slov/ly, describing 
in appearance a serpentine line. Its light was almost equal to that 
of the full moon, and its apparent diameter nearly 20'. 

September 4. — Between \h. and 4/i. a. m., observed eight shooting 
stars. Some of tliem left brilliant trails. 

September 22. — In the evening, saw two shooting stars fall in tlie SB. 

September 30. — Between 8^. 5m. and 87i. 10m. p. m., saw two shoot- 
ing stars fall to the southwest. Between 9/i. 45m. and lOh. of the same 
evening, I saw three shooting stars pass near to the Milky Way and 
barallel with it. 

October 7. — In the evening, saw three shooting stars. 



October 9. — In the evening, saw four shooting stars. 

October 30. — In the morning, saw a brilliant shooting star. Even- 
ing of same clay, saw two shooting stars. One appeared to rise up- 
wards from the earth. It was in the vicinity of the constellation 
Perseus. 

November 1. — About 47?-. a. m.^ observed two meteoric stars. 

November 10. — 8/i. 30m. p. m., saw a meteoric star. 

November 12. — 6|/t. p. m., saw a brilliant shooting star pass from 
bear d Copricornus to /9 Draconis. It left a conical trail of light, 
Which remained visible but a little more than one second. Betweea 
\lh. and 8A., saw a shooting star. 

November 13 — At G7i. 30m. p. m,, saw a meteoric star. 

November 20. — In the evening, I saw a swiftly moving shooting 
star. I judged that it moved 20° of the sphere in ^ second. 

November 24. — 77i. p. m., I saw a meteoric star. 

December 1. — In the evening, saw two shooting stars. 

December 30. — 67i. 38^re. p. m., saw a brilliant m.eteoric star. 

1851 — January 11. — Evening, saw a small shooting star. 

January 24. — Evening, observed two shooting stars. 

March 31. — I saw two shooting stars. 

STILLWATER, MINNESOTA TERRITORY. 

1851 — July 19. — In evening, saw four shooting stars. 

Atigtist 5. — In the evening, observed two shooting stars. 

August 9. — In the evening, saw three shooting stars during fifteen 
minutes' observation. 

August 10. — In the evening, saw nine shooting stars during one 
Jiour's observation. 



326 METEOROLOGY. 

August 20. — In the evening, saw four shooting stars during thirty 
minutes' observation. 

August 21. — In the evenings saw three shooting stars during forty- 
five minutes' observation. 

August 22. — In the evening, saw two shooting stars during fifteen 
minutes' observation. In the same evening I saw a shooting star 
apparently rise upwards. It was about three seconds in moving 45°, 
and made an angle with the horizon of about 30°. 

August 26. — In the evening, saw five shooting stars during forty- 
five minutes' observation. 

August 27. — In the evening, saw three shooting stars during thirty 
minutes' observation. 

August 28. — In the evening, saw two shooting stars during sixty 
minutes' observation. 

Septemher 18. — In the evening, saw three shooting stars. One 
appeared to rise upwards more than 30° of the vertical. 

Septemher 23 — Saw a very brilliant shooting star. 

Septemher 24. — In the evening, saw two meteoric stars. 

Septemher 25. — In the evening, saw three shooting stars. 

Septemher 26. — In the evening, saw three shooting stars. 

Septemher 28. — In the evening, saw a meteoric star. 

Sepitemher 29. — In the evening, observed a brilliant shooting star. 

' SUMMARY EECAPITULATION. 

Whole number of shooting stars recorded as observed pre- 
viously to the beginning of the year 1852 , 173 

Observed previous to the year 1850 16 

Observed during the year 1850 100 

Observed during the year 1851 57 

During the last five months of 1850, I usually passed an hour or 
two in the open air on every clear evening, and noted down all of 
the shooting stars that I saw, the number in each month being as 
loUows : 

Au^'ust 63 

September 16 

October 10 

November 8 

December 3 

Total 100 

During 1851, I not only passed much less time in making such 
observations, but likewise recorded only a part of the observations 
made. The following is the number recorded as seen in each of the 
months of that year : 

January 3 

February 

March..." 2 

April 

May 



METEOROLOGY. 327 

June 

July 4 

August 34 

September 14 

October 

November 

December 

Total 5T 



B. 

AURORA BOREALIS AND OTHER METEORS. 

WELD; PRANKLIN COUNTY, MAINE. 

Bonarkahle Meteor. 

I 1850 — September 30, — At 9/i. 307n. p. m. I saw a remarkably 
jgtrange meteor iu the southern sky. Its shape was that of an ellip- 
':ical zone or ring, and when first seen its centre was about 5° east 
and the same distance north of FomaUiaut, or in R. A. 23/i. dm., 
jind declination 25° 23'. Its longer axis lay in nearly an east and west 
direction. The length of its transverse axis was about 10°, and of its 
?3onjugate diameter 5°. Width of the bright belt or annular surface 
pn the upper part of the ellipse 2°, on its lower part 1°. The north- 
ern part was very brilliant, but its southern part was dimmer. It 
Inoved slowly to the westward, and also had a rotary motion. At 9/i. 
iom. its centre was 4° north of Fomalhaut and on the same declina- 
•ion circle ; being less brilliant tlian when first observed, but of the 
drst noticed figure. 

i At 107i. its centre was in about R. A. 22A. 257/1., and declination 
127° 23'. Its length was then nearly 15°, and width 3°. It was 
icarcely perceptible. It disappeared at lOA. 10«i. 

STILLWATER, MINNESOTA TERRITORY. 

First Class Aurora. 

\ 1851 — Sppteniber 29. — In the evening there was a remarkable exhi- 
bition of the Aurora Borealis. Soon after dark I observed a small and 
jrilliantly white orch, having its point of culmination, which was about 
10° above the horizon, very nearly, if nut precisely, in the magnetic 
[meridian, in the north. (The magnetic needle has a variation at this 
place of about 9:^-° east, epoch 1850.) Soon after this, deep red streamers 



328 METEOEOLOGY. 



I 



were shot upward from the arch, 10 or 15 degrees apart, along its 
whole length, which converged to a focus, as it were, in the south mag- 
netic pole of the dipping needle. One of these, which stretched like 
a broad band along the magnetic meridian, was of a deep crimson or 
almost blood color. After a short pause the northern arch began to 
rise slowly towards the zenith, where it was apparently dispersed. 
On the disappearance of the first arch in the zenith a second arch 
began to form, and was soon completed, in the south, just as if it was i 
the reuniting of the first arch after passing the zenith ; also concentric! 
with tlie magnetic meridian, and having an altitude of 30° above the i 
southern horizon. The extremities of this southern arch reached i 
nearly 40° on each side of the magnetic meridian. Beneath this arch, i 
which was about 5° in breadth, was an intensely black arch concen- i 
trie with the white one. Just as the southern arch was formed, twoi 
deeply red belts, springing from the horizon at the points formerly ; 
occupied by the extremities of the northern arch, stretched themselves ' 
through the zenith, crossing each other at that point, and ran down i 
nearly to the southern arch. These soon vanished, when a black seg- ' 
ment of a circle was formed in the magnetic north, having its edge : 
fringed with a silvery white. During this the southern arch had i 
remained nearly unchangeable. Presently, alternately red and white 
streamers darted up from the horizon, or near to it, all around the con- 
cave, varying in width from 1° to 3° or 4° and converging towards 
the zenith, the southern arch still remaining as before. On the ceasing 
of this phenomenon the southern arch became serpentine in its course. 
About two hours after thiSj that is about 11 o'clock, the aurora, 
arriving at its maximum, presented a most beautiful spectacle. The 
whole northern sky, from the east to the west, became thickly beset 
with a multitude of stud like streamers, in the north coming to within 
only about 15° of the horizon, but at the east and west meeting the 
horizon along an azimuth of nearly 30°, which all converged into a 
beautiful corona about the pole of the dipping needle. These stream- 
ers seemed all to have a sort of tremulous or wave-like motion from 
one side to the other in rapid succession. Shortly afterwards the ( 
corona sent out streamers down the southern sky, thus completing the t 
auroral illumination of the whole visible concave. Just at this time -; 
there was another arch formed, in the north, that is to say in the mag- 
netic north, stretching about 60° along the horizon, with an altitude 
at the culminating point of 40°, and composed of brilliant white 
columns diverging from the north point of the compass, shaded with 
black beneath. In a few minutes this arch mingled itself with the 
columns, converging to the pole of the dipping needle ; then there 
followed a succession of auroral Avaves, passing over the whole sky, 
not unlike the electric flashes sometimes observed in thunder clouds. 
The southern arch maintained its position nearly three hours, disap- 
pearing, hov/ever^ during the occurrence of the last named phenome- 
non. Daring the above auroral display the sky was clear from clouds ; 
for as brilliant as the auroras were the brighter stars could be j^lainly 
seen through them, even where they were intensely black. The aurora 
continued more or less brilliant during the remainder of the night. 
This auroral display was characterized by all the more conspicuous 



METEOROLOGY. 329 

phenomena of tlie liigher classes, sucli as arches, streamers, a cofona, 
and auroral waves, the corona and waves being remarkably developed. 
The southern arch, however, was perhaps the most remarkable phe- 
nomenon of the exhibition. 

Second Class Aurora Borealis. 

December 23. — In the evening there was an auroral exhibition. A 
dark arch was formed in the north, having an altitude at its culmin- 
ating point of 15°, and its centre of curvature lying in the magnetic 
meridian. Numberless streamers shot upward from the .arch to an 
elevation of 45°. The aurora was visible about one hour. The bril- 
liancy of the streamers would place this exhibition in the seco7id class 
aurora. 

Lunar Halo. 

December 27. — In the evening I saw a beautiful halo around the 
moon. The interior diameter of the ring was about 3°, and its exte- 
rior diameter was fully 7°. The inner edge of the ring was of a deep 
crimson color, and its exterior a brilliant blue ; while it had an inter- 
mediate annulus of yellow, bordering on an orange color. The width 
of the red ring was f°, that of the blue f°, and that of the yellow ^°. 
The phenomenon was seen only about three or four minutes. 

Auroras of the Third and Fourth Glasses. 

1852 — January 23. — In the evening saw a fourth class aurora bore- 
alis. 

January 24. — In the evening I observed the aurora borealis, but the 
exhibition was of little importance, being of the lowest class. 

February 7. — In the evening saw aurora borealis. 

February 18. — In the evening there occurred quite a brilliant exhi- 
bition of the aurora borealis, with finely developed streamers. I saw 
a very curious auroral meteor in the constellation Virgo. Its shape 
was that of the head of a huge spear. Its foremost point was in the 
vicinity of Spica, and the two anterior points were situated, the one 
near y, and the other near r^ of that constellation. It remained visi- 
ble only a few minutes. 

February 19. — In the evening observed a slight auroral corrusca- 
tion. 

Parhelia. 

February 26. — In the morning I observed two brilliant parhelia, one 
on each side of the sun. The sun's altitude at the time was nearly 
15°, and the mock suns were distant about 30° on each side of the real 
sun. On their inner, or sides next the sun, their light was of dazzling 
brightness, and their outer sides were tinged with the prismatic hues. 



330 METEOROLOGY. 



Minor auroras. 

March 9. — In the evening the sky was clear and serene. I saw an 
auroral arch in the north, having its centre coinciding with the mag- 
netic meridian. 

March 12. — In the evening, saw the aurora borealis. 

March 17. — In the evening, saw a fourth class aurora borealis. 

Parhelia. 

3Iarch 1*7. — Soon after sunrise I observed two parhelia, one on each 
side of the sun, which remained visible at least two hours. 
3Iarch 19. — After sunrise I saw a parhelion. 

WELD^ FRANKLIN COUNTY, MAINE. 

Aurora horealis. 

November 10. — In the evening I saw an auroral display, con- 
sisting of a number of short streamers beset around the magnetic 
norlh. While gazing on theee I beheld a meteor resembling an 
electric spark, which suddenly emerged from a brilliant streamer that 
lay in the magnetic meridian, and vanished in a moment. It a])peared 
to have a lateral and downward movement of about 2°. Color of 
streamers yellowish white. 

November 11. — In the evening I observed an auroral exhibition, 
which was much more brilliant than that of the 10th instant. The 
streamers reached a height of 45°, being intensely bright, and of a 
yellowish white color. 

Solar halo. ^ 

r- 

1853 — 3Iay 2*7. — When the sun had descended about a semi-diam- 
eter of its lower limb, below the horizon in the west, I saw the fol- 
lowing semi-circle of a solar halo. The interior diameter of the circular 
halo was about 8°, and its exterior diameter 18°. Its interior was 
crimson colored, and the several prismatic hues were depicted out- 
ward in succession. It was very brilliant, and a beautiful object for 
contemplation. 

Aurora horealis. 

June 2. — In the evening, saw an auroral exhibition. The streamers 
were quite brilliant, long, and slender. 

June 27. — At a little past SA. in the evening I saw a fine aurora. 
It was in the form of a great arch, about 140° in length, and from 2° 
to 3° in breadth. The arch on the east approached within 3° o^ Alt air ; 
on or near the meridian it passed through Coro7ia Borealis ; and its 
western extremity was near (^ Leo7iis. It was very brilliant ; and I 



METEOROLOGY. 331 

observed a 0111111)61 of oscillations or waves pass along its meridian 
portion longitudinally. These waves were slow in progress, and some- 
what gyratory in appearance. Only a faint illumination was observed 
in the north. 

Rainbow . 

July 12. — "When the sun had been hidden nearly fifteen minutes by 
the western hills, and was just on the point of passing below the plane 
of the horizon, I saw a beautiful rainbow. The bow was entire, and 
of splendid prismatic hues. Fragments of a secondary bow were seen. 
The bow in a few minutes showed a great preponderance of red rays, 
and did not disappear until the moment of sunset. 

# Aurora horealis. 

Sepfeniher 2. — In the evening, observed an auroral exhibition. At 
first, a dark segment of a circle appeared in the magnetic north, 
about 10^ in altitude at its culminating point. This was soon beset 
around its exterior with brilliant rays of a yellowish white. These 
rays extending out laterally shortly formed a serpentine arch, still 
with the black beneath. Then a few streamers shot upwards towards 
the zenith. Shortly afterwards these phenomena died away, and the 
northern sky remained quite luminous, with here and there patches 
of cirrus in iilmentous wisps. I saw several small stars through the 
dark auroral vapor first observed. 

1854 — March 26. — In the evening observed brilliant aurora hore- 
alis. Saw a fine auroral arch, having an altitude from the northern 
horizon of above 45°, and reaching from the eastern to the western 
horizon. Width of arch about 10°. I saw many minor exhibitions 
of the aurora horealis during the winter of 1853-'54. 

Ma7'ch 21). — In the evening I observed a beautiful auroral meteor. 
It resembled the tail of a huge comet, proceeding from a nucleus about 
10° north of Sinca Virginis. It lay along below Leo Major, branching 
out into two bright streams, with a fainter dawn between, the northern 
branch reaching a Canis Minoris, and the southern terminating a few 
degrees north of Canis Major. The above was its appearance at 8A. 
\hm. It was very brilliant, and remained visible for sometime. 

May 16. — In the evening saw a fine auroral arch, having an alti- 
tude of 70° in the north. It was composed of a great number of short 
transverse streamers 2° or 3° apart. 

Rapid oscillations in refraction. 

September 4. — In the evening I observed rapid vertical oscil- 
lations in the lunar orb, when crossed horizontally by thin cirrus 
bands ; the latter projected in perspective on the lunar disk, reminding 
one of the belts of Ju[)iter. She appeared to rise and i'all rapidly in 
the vertical through about |^° arc : corresponding fluctuations being 
observed in the shadows of objects in her light. A number of other 
persons observed the phenomenon, which lasted about ten minutes. 



332 METEOROLOGY. 

The altitude of tlie moon was about 15° ; and tlie cirrus bands crossing 
ber disk remained apparently unchangeable and motionless. A storm 
of rain followed before the next morning;. 



0. 
THE ZODIACAL LIGHT. 

WELD, FRANKLIN COUNTY, MAINE. 

1853 — January 31. — On this, as well as several preceding evenings, , 
I have observed a pyramidal column of whitish light, after the ceasing j; 
of twilight, extending along the ecliptic from the western horizon to , 
an altitude of 40° or more, which must be the conical body of the ; 
zodiacal light. 

1854 — February 21. — Between 87i. and 9/i. in the evening I observed 
the zodiacal light. Its base at the horizon was above 18° in Vv^idth, , 
and the altitude of its vertex about 35°. 

1855 — January 14. — After the ceasing of twilight I saw the cone 
of zodiacal light. It was very brilliant, as much so as that part of 
the milky loay visible at that season. Its vertex was above 90° from . 
the sun ; in fact, a faint illumination seemed to extend almost to the 
eastern horizon. Its width at its base was more than 20°. It was 
observed on several other evenings of the winter. 

1856 — February 2. — In the evening observed the zodiacal light; 
it having been seen on several evenings during the preceding month. 
It uniformly reaches about 90° from the sun, having an apparent ' 
width at the horizon of 40°. Sometimes a faint reflection is observed '■ 
in the east. 

1856 — February^ — After the ceasing of twilight in the evening ; 
observed the zodiacal light. Apparent width at the horizon 40°, 
length 10° from the sun. 

1850 — Blarch. — I saw the pyramidal column of zodiacal light on 
every evening, in absence of the moon, during this month. It appears 
at the horizon of a width varying from 10° to 40°, and an apparent 
length of from 30° to 90°, and even upwards. 

1857 — January. — During this month I have frequently observed 
the zodiacal light. Its vertex is generally not less than 90° from the 
sun. On some very clear evenings a faint illumination may be traced li 
to the distance of 170° or 180° from, the sun^ being visible a greater ' 
part of the night. Its width at the horizon sometimes reaches 40°. 
Its axis appears to lie a little above the ecliptic, or to have a small 
north latitude ; the amount of which is difficult of determination. 



EEPOET 



RECENT PEOGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



BY Dr. JOEl. MULLER, 

PROFESSOR 0? PHYSICS AND TECHflOLOGY i;« TUE DNIVERSITY OF FEEIBCRQ. 



[Translated from the German for the Smithsonian Institution.! 

In revising this translation, originally made by different persons, 
it lias been the constant aim to give as nearly and as literally as pos- 
sible the exact language of the author. But one exception has been 
made to this rule. In the case of the citation of English philosophers 
reference has been made to the original memoirs, and their own lan- 
guage adopted, instead of that of the report, wherever it was evident 
that the intention had been to give the equivalent German to their 
English. It is due to the author, however, to state that this change 
has been at most but a verbal one, not material to the sense. The 
notice is, however, deemed necessary, because this is the only departure, 
save in one or two unimportant cases, from the strict rendering of the 
language of the text. 

GEORGE C. SCHAEFFER. 



SECTION THIRD. 
THE LEYDEN JAR AND EFFECTS OP THE DISCHARGE. 
[Continued from page 456, of the Report of 1856.] 
. THE SECONDARY CURRENT. 

§ 56. Nature of the secondary current. — When a battery is dis- 
jcharged by a long metallic wire the current in the conducting circuit 
■ wire induces a current in an adjoining closed wire conductor. 

The wire which forms the conducting circuit of the battery is known 
as the main ivire. 

The wire in which a cifrrent is induced by the action of the current 
in the main wire is termed the secondary loire. 

[The existence of the secondary current was demonstrated in a series 
of experiments by Professor Joseph Henry in 1838, published in the 
jTransactioQs of the American Philosophical i?ociety," vol. 6, p. 40, 
in 1839, a publication apparently unknown to our author. 



334 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



The experiments of Riess and of Henry were therefore nearly simul- 
taneous, as were the subsequent announcements. The article men- 
tioned anticipates, however, much that is discussed in the following 
sections of this report, founded on later publications of Kiess and 
others. Thus experiments upon screening effects, upon secondary 
conductors at different distances, and upon the difference in magne- 
tism, were recited. The latter of these, in connexion with the matter 
in § 70, throw additional light upon the apparently abnormal devel- 
opment of magnetism. But the whole set of experiments, and the 
deductions from them, were given as a sequel to similar investigations 
upon secondary currents with galvanic electricity ; severed from this 
connexion much of their value would be lost, and to reproduce the 
whole, together with later researches in the same line, would take up 
more space than can be spared in the present volume G. C. S.] 

Eiess proved the existence of the secondary current in the following 
manner; (Fog. Ann., XL VII, 55.) 

Fig. 59. 

Let A A, in fig. 59, be a 

^ .Jv-v^<^.eNpv^--Y^P^^ ^ copper wire wound spirally 

••'-■'''^^^'''^^I^EflW^^^^^^ about a glass tube and in- 

troduced into the conduct- 
ing circuit of a battery; A. 
A consequently is the main 
wire. A wider glass tube 
is passed over the main 
wire, and upon it the sec- 
ondary wire B B is wound, 
leaving its ends hanging 
free. The ends of a third 
spiral C D, also wound 
upon a glass tube, are to be fastened at a and b. 

The connection at h being severed, and the ends of the wire sepa- 
rated a little, a spark is seen to pass at h when the battery, with a 
sufficiently strong charge, is discharged through the main wire. 

This spark is a proof of the existence of the secondary current. A 
passage of electricity from the main to the secondary wire cannot take> 
place if the secondary spiral be kept at a sufficient distance from the 
ends of the glass tube on which it is wound. 

A steel sewing needle placed in the glass tube of the spiral D, 
which we will call the magnetizing spiral, will be magnetized by the 
secondary current. 

An electrical air thermometer inserted in the secondary circuit 
indicates heat produced by the secondary current. 

Figure 59 represents the form in which Kiess first arranged his 
experiments. Afterwards (Pogg. Ann., L^ 9) he gave the spiral a 
more convenient form. 

In a disk of wood, consisting of three pieces glued together, the 
diameter of which depends upon the size of the spiral to be formed, 
concentric grooves are to be cut and made into a spiral, by joining 
each circle with the following one by a curved groove ; the innermost 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



loo 



Fig. 60. 




' circle is joined to the second by the groove c d, (figure fiO,) the second 

' to the third by e /, &c. In these 

! grooves a copper wire about half a line 

'. thick is so laid as to make a spiral. 

' One end of the wire passes throug.h 

I the disk at a, and along the under 

' side to z. From a the wire coils out to 

I c, from c to d, from d to e, /, &c. ; x 

\ y is the other end of the wire thus 

I wound in a flat spiral. 

[ The disk is covered with a thin coat 
of pitch before placing the wire upon 
it. 

The wire being fastened by the su- 
perposition of a hot metallic plate, the 

, spaces between the rin.t!;s of wire will 

I be filled up with the pitch; a heavy heated plate laid on the disk will 

I make the spiral perfectly level. This spiral is now blacked with coal 

I and pressed upon another wooden disk to 
get the marks for a second spiral, which ^s'^''- 

[ must correspond with the first as nearly as 
possible 

I The disks are now fastened to glass sup- 
ports, their planes being vertical. They 

I are arranged upon the same stand opposite 

leach other, and so that they can be ap- 
proached and separated at pleasure. This 
arrano;ement is represented in figure 61. 

\ Another arrangement of the flat spiral, 

[much more convenient for many purposes, 
shown to me by Professor Eisenlohr, of Carlsruhe, is represented in 
figure 62. One of the spirals is fastened on an upright glass sup- 

Iport in a horizontal position. The second ^.^ ^,, 

1 spiral is fastened in the same manner on a 

[glass rod, which has no foot ; it is placed 

lover the other, like the upper, over the 

(lower condenser plate. 

i The distance between the spirals can be 

I changed by placing glass plates of difler- 

|ent thicknesses between them. For greater 

i distances pieces of varnished wood having 

(any desired thickness are interposed. 

, The ends of the wires are provided with 

i screw clamps z and y, by means of which 

'the spiral can be connected as may be de- 
sired. 

Placing y and z of the lower spiral from one to two lines apart, and 
j separating the two spirals by a glass plate, a spark will be seen to 
, pass between y and z on discharging ajar, sufficiently charged, through 
' the upper spiral. The spark is produced by the secondary current. 





836 EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

§ 57. Magnetizing hy the main current. — To avoid false conclusions 
in regard to magnetizing by the secondary current, magnetizing by 
the main current should first be properly investigated. 

Such an investigation was first made by Savary. Riess repeated 
Savary's experiments and obtained similar results. The following 
are Riess' results. — (Pog. Ann. XLVII, 55.) 

In the conducting circuit of the battery, consisting of 25 jars with 
l.j square foot coating each, a spiral of platinum wire was placed ; 26 ' 
inches of this spiral were wound in 42 coils on a glass tube 3 inches 
long. The ends of the wire not wound up were, together, 34 inches: 
long. 

In each experiment a new non-magnetic English sewing needle,L 
13-9 lines long and 0.19 lines thick in the middle, was laid in the 
spiral. After the discharge stroke had passed through the spiral thei 
needle was magnetized. To test the strength of the magnetism iti 
was brought to a certain distance from a compass needle two inches, 
long, (in what manner this was done cannot be easily understood from 
Eiess' description,) and the deflection produced in the latter observed.! 

By increasing the charge of the battery, not only the strength but; 
the polarity of the magnetism of the needle changed; as the following 
table shows: 

Quantity, 5 10 15 20 25 27 29 30 32 35 

Deflection, 9° 14.5 15 10.3 6.5 — 2.5—7.5 — 8.5 2.3 11.5 

It is seen that a stronger charge of the battery was not necessarily 
followed by a stronger magnetism ; also, that the magnetism thusi 
caused was not always such as might have been expected, according tof 
Ampere's rule, (namely, that if we suppose the figure of a man to be 
introduced into the circuit, the positive current entering at the feet 
and passing out at the head, the figure, when it faces the needle, will 
have the north pole on its left hand,) for an abnormal magnetizing of 
the needle took place in all the deflections marked with the — sign. 

In this series the strength of the magnetism of the needle at first 
increased with the magnitude of the charge, then decreased until the 
direction of the magnetism was reversed, and it was only after still 
more powerful charges that the normal magnetism appeared again. 

These experiments are a proof that the direction of the discharge 
current cannot be deduced from the polarity of the needle. 

With weaker charges the needle was normally magnetized ; abnormal 
magnetism appeared with increased charges in fine needles only ; 
coarse needles are always magnetized normally, although constantly! 
increased charges produce in them an alternate decrease and increase 
of strength of the magnetism. 

§58. Magnetizing hy the secondary cury-ent. — This peculiarity in the 
magnetism of steel needles occurs in like manner in the secondary 
current. Magnetism produced by a secondary current will change in 
strength and direction: 

1. By increasing the charge. 

2. By increasing the surface of the battery, the charge remaining 
the same. The greater the surface, the stronger Riess found the mag- 
netism of the needle ; the same quantity of electricity being distributed 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



337 



r over a greater surface, it has a less density, and consequently a slower 
I discharge, which is favorable to the production of magnetism. 
[ 3. The order of the periods of decrease and increase, as well as that 
fof the reversal of tlie magnetism, will he changed by an alteration in 
'the secondary circuit, such as introducing wires of constantly increasing 
length. 

If the scciindary circuit remains metallic as before, but interrupted at 
one place, so that the current has to pass with a spark, a very remark- 
able influence is observed on the magnetic effect; often the magnetism 
is in this way increased very greatly, sometimes it is weakened, and 
again it is changed in direction. The strongest magnetization by the 
secondary current, amounting nearly to saturation of the needle, has 
been obtained in this manner. 

4. A continued change in the strength, as well as a change in the 
direction of the magnetism produced by the secondary spiral, takes 
place when, cceteris paribus, the length of the conducting circuit of the 
main spiral is continually increased. 

The apparatus shown in figure 62 may be very conveniently used 
in these experiments. The lower spiral may be taken for the secondary 
circuit, and the magnetizing coil may be introduced between x and y 
by screwing its ends in the clamps. 

§ 59. Production of heat by the secondary current. — It has already 
been mentioned that the secondary current produces thermal phenom- 
ena ; Riess lias also investigated thoroughly the laws of the development 
of heat by the lateral current. — (Pog. Ann., XLVII, 65.) 

In the conducting circuit of the secondary spiral, a magnetic spiral 
and an electrical air thermometer were introduced. The following 
table contains the thermal and magnetic effects which the secondary 
current produces when the surface and charge of the battery are 
.changed. aS and q have the same signification's before. 







Heating. 




s. 


Q- 




Magnetism. 










Observed. 


Computed. 




5 


15 


3.8 


3.4 






20 


6.2 


6.0 






25 


9.0 


9.4 






30 


12.0 


13.5 


o 


10 


20 


3.4 


3.0 


0.5 




30 


7.0 


6.8 


1.5 


15 


30 


4. 


4.5 


1.5 


20 


30 


3.5 


3.4 


4.0 


25 


30 


2.5 


2.7 


2.3 




40 


4.4 


4.8 


— 0.6 


5 


20- 


6.2 




8.8 




253 


8.3 




2.0 




303 


9.8 




— 3. G 



22 8 



338 



SECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



In the last column the deflections of the compass needle produced by 
the magnetized needle are indicated as explained above. Where no i 
deviation is indicated the magnetism was not perceptible. 

As far as the last three observations, indicated -by *, the observed 
temperatures harmonize very well with the formula 

s 

From all the observations (the tables given by Kiess contain a few v 
more) the mean result for a was 0.075 ; the temperatures computed 
with this co-ef&cient in the' above formula accord perfectly well with 
the observed values. Hence the formula holds good for the tempera- 1 
tures produced by the secondary current. 

In the observations indicated by * the secondary circuit was inter- r 
rupted, so that the current had to pass with a spark. This has a 
very important influence (above mentioned) upon the magnetization, i 
It is shown here, while the heating power is scarcely afiected — it being i 
a little diminished. 

When a Glerman silver wire, 78 lines long and half a line thick, was i 
inserted in the main circuit the heating was less ; the co-efficient a, 
which was found above equal to 0.075, was now 0.028. 

As may be readily conceived, the quantity of electricity in the 
secondary current is greater in proj^ortion as the portion of the main 
spiral acting upon the lateral spiral is greater, other circumstances 
being equal. In order to determine the amount of increase of the 
secondary current thus produced, the secondary coil B B, (fig. 59,) 
closed by the platinum wire of the thermometer, was slipped over the 
straight prolongation of A A, and the temperature noted which was 
produced in the secondary wire by the discharge of g = 20 in s = 5. 
Then, in successive experiments, a different number of coils of the 
main spiral was brought under the secondary spiral, and the same 
quantity of electrifity discharged in the same manner. These experi- 
ments gave the following results : 



Length of straight 


No. of coils. 


Heating in the lateral 


wire. 




wire. 


Lines. 






134 





1.85 


102 


24 


4.9 


63.4 


53 


7.6 


24.8 


82 


11.5 





101 


14.0 



The numbers of the last column are the mean of two series of ex- 
periments, giving nearly the same results. 

Since we know what elevation of temperature (1.85) is produced in 
the secondary v/ire by the action of a straight piece of the main wire 
134 lines long, we can compute the heat produced by the action of a 
straight piece of the main wire 102, 634, &c., lines long, and thus 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 339 

|ke are able to determine how much heat is produced by the action of 
24, 53, 82, 101 coils of the main wire. This gives — 

With 24 coils 3.5 

53 '' 6.r 

82 " 11.2 

101 " 14.0 

t Thus the heat produced is very nearly proportional to the number 
bf acting coils of the main wire ; hence it follows that tJie quan- 
tity of electricity generated by the conducting circuit of the battery in a 
Secondary wire is proportional to the length of the acting part of the 
hircuit wire, other circumstances being equal. 

\ If over the same main spiral A A the same lateral spiral be wound, 
first with its coils parallel to those of the main spiral, and then with 
more open coils, so that the main spiral acts always in the direction 
bf its entire length, but at first upon a long part of the lateral wire 
running parallel with it, and then on a shorter and more open part ; 
|in the latter case the action evidently is as much less as the direction 
bf the coils in the spirals differs, or the closer the lateral spiral is in 
^lomparison with the main spiral. 

\ All the coils used for these experiments were wound to the right. 
{[t is not a matter of indifterence, as far as regards the strength of the 
Secondary current, whether the lateral spiral is wound in the same or 
fthe opposite direction to that of the main spiral. Upon a main spiral 
Wound to the right, eight inches of copper wire were wound first to 
the right, then to the left, with the result : 

Heat. 

Secondary spiral to the right 15.4 

" " to the left.. 2.7 

§ 60. Action of the mainioire on diff'trent secondary ivires. — A piece, 
\{a b,) 26 inches long, of the same wire which* formed the main wire 
-■was stretched out straight ; parallel with it a piece (c d) of the lateral 
wire was stretched. The whole secondary circuit, in which the elec- 
trical thermometer was inserted, consisted of copper and iron wire. 
The piece c d of the secondary circuit, lying opposite a b, being a 
part of the iron or of the copper wire which forms the lateral circuit, 
with equal charges of the battery the temperature of the thermometer 
is the same, provided the iron and copper wire have the same diameter 
and the space between a b and c d ia the same. 

j Therefore, if the resistance to conduction of the whole secondary 
► [circuit remains unchanged, it is perfectly indifferent for the strength 
!of the secondary current whether a better or worse conducting piece 
■of wire is exposed to the action of the main wire. 
j It is impossible for me to understand clearly the arrangement of the 
(experiments relating to this matter from the description given. — 
!(Pog. Ann., L, 3.) 

§ 61. Decrease of the secondary current in proportion to the distance 
^from the main loire. — To find how the action on the secondary wire 
^decreases with the distance from the main wire, the piece running 
[parallel must have a great length, because otherwise, at tolerably 



340 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS, 

great distances, the heating of the lateral wire will be too little to he 
observed. 

Ri( ss stretched two copper wires 10 feet 6 inches long parallel to 
each other, (Pog- Ann., L, 7.) One of them was connected by means 
of copper wires 6 feet long with the circuit of the battery ; the ends 
of the other were connected by similar wires -with the platinum wire 
of the thermometer. By changing the distance between the axes of 
the parallel wires the thermometer showed that the current generated 
hy the straight 2'>cirt of the conducting circuit of the battery in the paral- 
lel wire decreoses in the proportion in ivhich the distarice of the axis of 
the ivires ivicreases, provided the distance of the wires at the start is 
not too small ; for if the wires approach within a certain limit the 
heat produced increases in a less proportion than the distances 
decrease. 

To obtain somewhat elevated temperatures by the secondary cur- 
rent, wires of great length must be used, and the management of 
these is very troublesome when they have to be stretched straight. 
Hence, when only the generation of an intense secondary current is 
desired, it is greatly preferable to wind the wires in a flat spiral, as 
already described, (144.) 

The current which is excited by the main spiral in the secondary, is 
weaker the further the spirals are apart ; but it is easily seen that be- 
tween the strength of the current and the distance between the spirals 
there cannot be a simple proportion, for any one part of the circuit of 
the main spiral excites a current, not only in the curved part lying 
nearest to it and on the same side, but also in the more remote part of 
the curve, on the opposite side; the latter is indeed weaker, but it acts 
against the former and diminishes its effect. But the proportion of 
the two opposite currents evidently changes when the distance of the 
spirals is changed. If the starting point is from very small distances 
of the two spirals the strength of the secondary current at first increases 
more slowly, but at a greater distance far more rapidly than the in- 
crease of the distance of the spirals. 

§ 62. Action of adjoining closed conductors on the generation of the 
secondary cwrewi. —Riess extended on the floor of a room three copper 
wires, 0.55 line thick and 10 ft. 6 in. long, parallel to each other, 
(Pog Ann., L, 12,) these wires being denoted respectively by A, B, 
and C. The axial distance between A and B was 4.45 lines, that of 
B and C 2.35 lines. 

The wire A was inserted in the conducting circuit of a battery ; from 
the ends of the wire C copper wires six feet long led to the thermom- 
eter, and consequently the secondary wire C included the thermometer 
in its circuit. When B was removed the unit of charge gave a tem- 
perature indication of 0.135 ; B being restored to its place nearly the 
same temperature was indicated ; but when the ends of B were joined 
by a copper wire 14 feet long only 0.094 was the temperature indi- 
cated. Hence it follows that — 

The current generated in a secondary wire hy the conducting wire 
of a battery remains unchanged lohen a wire with free ends lies betiueen 
the tiuo ivires ; but the current is diminished if the intermediate wire is 
closed upon itself. 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 341 

It is not essential that the wire B should lie between A and C in 
!»rder to weaken the current in C, which is generated by the discharge 
:iiirrent traversing A. B may lie beyond C or beyond A ; the lateral 
Current excited in C by the main current of A will be always weaker 
Vhen B is closed, or when a secondary current exists in B, than when 
'his is not the case. Hence, ihe main wire of a hattery having generated 
■frical currents in iiuo secondary loires near each other, each of the tioo 

mdary currents is weaker than it luould have been were the other not 
resent. 

Two flat spirals, six inches in diameter, each formed of copper wire 
;3 feet long and 0.55 lines thick, were placed 10 lines apart. The 
hermometer of the secondary spiral indicated a considerable heat (42 
livision of the scale) when the quantity of electricity (20) accumulated 
n four jars was discharged through the main spiral. But when, 
inder otherwise equal circumstances, the same quantity of electricity 
yas discharged, while a copper disk 6 inches 10 lines in diameter and 
' ?>o lines thick was interposed between the spirals^ the thermometer 

the secondary spiral showed no sensible heat. 

This remarkable effect of the copper plate evidently depends upon 
he good conduction which it offers to the current. 

The interposed plate should be a poor conductor to allow a sensible 
: at to be developed in the secondary spiral. In proportion as the 
anacity for conduction in the interposed plate decreases the current 
'u the secondary spiral increases. 

Interposing plates were used successively as follows : 1. A sheet of 
'in foil 0.01 line thick. 2. One of 0.0168 line thick. 3. Both to- 
gether. 4. A sheet of imitation silver paper. These sheets were 

niped between glass plates and placed one line distant from the main 
uiral. When the two spirals were two and a half lines apart the fol- 
lowing temperatures were obtained in the secondary spiral for the unit 
•f charge : 

Without interposed plate 0.56 

Interposed plate of imitation silver paper 0.57 

" " thin tin foil 0.087 

" '' thick " 0.056 

" " both sheets tin foil 0.034 

Comparing the last three indications with the corresponding thick- 
lesses of the interposed sheets of tin foil, we find that the strength of 
he current in the secondary loire is inversely proportional to the thick- 
£88 of the interposed metallic plate. 

The same result was obtained by repeating the experiments in the 
ame manner but at greater distances. 

§ 63. Action of interposed insidating plates upon the formation of the 
\econdary current, — Faraday has ascribed a specific inductive capacity 
^o the different insulators in relation to statical electricity, so that 
hrougli a glass or shellac plate induction should be much stronger 
-ban through air. 

!i The origin of the secondary current can only be satisfactorily ex- 
plained by the generation of electricity by induction ; and, in his view, 
ve should expect currents of difierent strengths, if plates of different 



342 EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. | 

insulating substances were interposed between the main and secondary 
spirals. 

If solid insulators possess a greater specific inductive capacity than 
air a well marked distinction should be made by means of the secondary 
current between solid conductors and insulators of electricity. Thus, 
while conductors, used as interposed plates, diminish the secondary 
current obtained through the medium of the air, insulators, applied 
as interposed plates, should increase the current. 

In spite of careful investigation Riess was unable to find such an 
increase of the secondary current by the interposition of insulating ; 
plates, such as glass, shellac, &c. The use of these plates changes in no i 
respect the force of the secondary current, which was found just as i 
great as though air only had been between the sj)irals. — (Pog. Ann., 
L, 18.) 

§ 64. Action of the conducting wire of a battery upon itself. — We have ' 
seen that no electrical current can be generated by induction in a wire • 
with free ends. The conducting wire of an electrical battery is sucli I 
a wire, but since its free ends pass into broad metallic surfaces, ^: 
allowing the accumulation of opposite electricities, it is necessary to 
examine experimentally whether one part of the wire may not have 
an inductive action on another part. 

Riess sought to solve this question in the following manner: 
(Pog. Ann., L, 19.) 

The two spirals, one of which had served hitherto as the main, the 
other as the secondary spiral, were placed at a short distance apart, ' 
and joined so as to form a single conducting wire, so that, on being 
introduced into the circuit of the battery, the discharge current had to 
pass through both. 

In one case the outer end of one of the spirals was united with the cen- 
tral end of the other in such a way that when the discharge current in 
the one spiral passed from the middle to the outside, it had to pass from 
the middle to the outside in the other also ; and, consequently, the 
discharge traversed the two spirals in the same direction. 

The outer end of one spiral was then joined to the outer end of the 
other, so that the current which traversed the one from the middle 
to the outside went from the outside to the middle in the other ; the 
discharge thus traversing the two spirals in opposite directions. 

Now, if one part of the conducting circuit can act upon another, ' 
each spiral in the first case must cause in the other a current in the 
same direction as the main current, but in the last mode of connecting 
the spirals a current opposed to the main current ; and hence, in the 
last case the force of the current, cceteris paribus, should be weaker 
than in the first. 

The thermometer being introduced into the circuit along with the 
combined spirals, it indicated, under like circumstances, perfectly 
equal temperature, in whichever manner the spirals were united ; hence 
it follows, that in the discharge of a battery no part of the conducting 
wire acts inductively upon another part. 

§ 65. Retardation of the electrical discharge by conductors near the 
conducting wire of a battery. — Riess introduced into the conducting 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 343 

circuit of a battery (Pog. Ann._, XLIX, 393) a copper wire 13 feet long 
and 0.55 line thick, which was coiled in a flat spiral on a wooden disk 
six inches in diameter, covered with pitch and supported by a glass 
flag, as represented by fig. 61. A series of experiments, made with 
fthe circuit thus arranged, gave — 

h = 0.43 -^ 
s • 

( A copper plate 6 inches 10 lines in diameter and 0.33 line thick 
[was placed parallel to the main spiral, at a distance of 2| lines. It 
gave — 

* 2 

h = 0.41 ^ 

s ' 

Then a secondary spiral exactly like the main spiral was placed 
parallel to it, the ends being in perfect metallic contact. This arrange- 
ment gave — 



h = 0.42 -^ 

s ' 

Hence, neither the copper disk nor the secondary spiral had a sensi- 
ble influence on the temperature of the conducting circuit. Instead 
of the perfect metallic closure, a less perfect closure of the secondary 
spiral was made ; that is, the ends of the copper wire were connected 
jby a platinum wire 138 lines long and 0.023 in. radius. The secondary 
! spiral thus closed being placed 5 lines distant from the main spiral 
I the result was — 

' h = 0.32-^; 

s 

t 

I when placed at the distance of only 2| lines from the main spiral the 

I result was — 

h = 0.27 A 
s 

The secondary spiral, closed by a German silver wire 460 lines 
i long and one-twelfth line diameter, and placed 2^ lines from the main 
spiral, gave — 

h = 0.17 A 
s 

The secondary spiral, closed by a glass tube filled with water 9 
inches long, gave — 

^ = 0.39 A 

s 

We will now subject these results to a somewhat closer examination. 
The current in the conducting circuit, as seen above, generates a 



344 RECENT PEOGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

current both in the copper plate and in the secondary spiral, hut the 
current in the secondary spiral cannot induce a current in the main 
spiral, because the latter is not closed by metal, the two coatings of 
the jars being separated by glass. The only possible influence of the 
current in the secondary spiral upon that ii^the main spiral is some 
retardation of the discharge. , 

Now, if the closure of the secondary spiral is more perfect than that t 
of the main spiral, the current of the former will pass more rapidly 
than that of the latter, and on that account no reaction of the second- 
ary spiral can take place upon the main spiral ; hence, with a more 3| 
perfect closure of the secondary spiral, the temperature in the conduct- - 
ing circuit is found very little less than when no secondary spiral is * 
present. 

With an imperfect metallic closure of tbe secondary spiral the 
secondary current has a longer duration, and then the discharge cur- - 
rent in the main wire finds, during its whole course, the secondary ■ 
wire traversed by a current passing in the same direction, and we ; 
must assume that this is the cause of the retardation of the main cur- • 
rent, which is indicated by the diminished temperature ; by imperfect ^ 
closure of the secondary spiral the temperature in the main current 
was reduced in the proportion of 0,43 to 0.17. 

By inserting a tube of water into the secondary spiral the tempera- 
ture again increases almost as much as though no secondary spiral 
had been present, which is well explained by the fact that, with very 
imperfect closure of the spiral, no sensible secondary current is gen- 
erated. 

The circumstance that, with quite perfect as well as with very im- 
perfect closure of the secondary spiral, the influence on the main wire 
is less than for a moderately good closure, leads us to expect that, 
when the secondary spiral is closed by constantly increasing lengths 
of thin wire, at first the temperature of the main circuit will decrease, 
that, with a given length of the introduced wire, the influence of the 
secondary spiral will become a maximum, and then decrease again, and 
that, therelbre, the elevation of temperature of the conducting circuit 
of the main spiral will again increase when the wire by which the 
secondary spiral is closed is lengthened. 

This was verified by experiments which Riess made. — (Pog. Ann., 
LI, 177.) 

Representing by 100 the temperature observed in the thermometre 
introduced in the conducting circuit of the main spiral, the secondary 
spiral being closed by a short thick copper wire, the results given 
by the insertion of a German silver wire 0.1517 line diameter and of 
different lengths, are as follows: 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



345 



Length of wire. 


Temperature. 


4.8 


feet. 


70 


9.8 




55 


19.7 




52 


29.6 




48 


39.4 




52 


88.7 




61 


138. 




66 


286. 




76 


582. 




87 


Open. 




100 



It is seen from tliis table how very rapidly at first the temperature 
)f the circuit of the main spiral decreases with increasing length of 
jjrerman silver wire inserted in the circuit of the secondary spiral, and 
>hat a minimum is reached when the 1 ngth of the introduced wire is 
a9.6 Paris feet, in which case tlie heatiog eiFect is only 48 per cent, of 
phat wliich is observed with perfect closure of the secondary spiral. 
jVVhen the length of the wire exceeds 29.6 feet the temperature grad- 
ually increases again ; and by lengthening the wire to 582 feet the 
temperature rises to 87 per cent, of that originally obtained. 

A metallic closed circuit near the conducting loire of an electrical 
\attery acts retardingly on the discharge of the battery in proportion to 
he length of its closing loire. The circuit of the secondary loire being 
\)rogreisively prolonged its action successively increases, attains a maxi- 
num, and then decreases. 

The changes which the temperature in the main wire undergoes by 
engthening the secondary wire, obey the law indicated by the last 
'able, whether the charge of the battery be stronger or weaker ; with 
iitronger charges, as well as with weaker, the "retarding effect of the 
Secondary wire attains a maximum when the secondary spiral is closed 
py 29.6 feet of the above-mentioned German silver wire ; and then the 
[.emperature in the main wire is 48 per cent, of that which would 
[lave been observed with an equal charge if the secondary spiral had 
fi perfect metallic closure ; but as soon as the conducting circuit of 
Ihe main wire is lengthened by the introduction of a thin wire the 
jourse of the retarding effect of the lateral wire changes. 
' In the main conductor a platinum wire 7 inches 5 lines long and 
).023 line radius was introduced, and the results in the following 
:able were obtained ; the lateral spiral being closed by German silver 
yire of different lengths : 



Length of German 


Temperature of 


silver wire. 


mam wire. 


.0 feet 


100 


29.6 " 


82 


49.3 " 


78 


69. " 


78 


237. " 


91 


572. " 


99 



846 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

We see here that, on prolonging the main conductor, the maximum 
effect of the secondary wire is not reached until a greater length of wire 
has been introduced into the secondary spiral^ and moreover that the re- 
tarding effect of the secondary wire is now much less. During the pre- 
vious experiments the temperature of the main wire was reduced by 
the maximum effect of the secondary spiral to 48 per cent.; now, the 
maximum effect of the secondary spiral produces only a reduction to 
78 per cent, of the temperature, which would have been observed either 
without the secondary spiral or by one perfectly closed. 

This is easy to explain. The secondary current is stronger in pro- 
portion as the part of the main wire acting on the secondary wire is i 
greater, and to the stronger secondary current we must also attribute 
a greater reaction upon the discharge. The length of the main wire 
was the same in both series of experiments, namely, 13 feet of copper ' 
wire, which acted upon the same length of the secondary wire. In i 
the first series these 13 feet made by far the greatest part of the circuit i 
of the battery ; in the second a platinum wire was introduced, whose re- ' 
tarding power was equal to a copper wire 568 feet long and 0.55 line 
thick; consequently, in the last case, only about one-forty-fourth part 
of the virtual length of the main wire acted upon the secondary spiral. I 

Riess caused two other spiral disks to be made, each containing 53^ 
feet of copper wire two-thirds of a line in diameter. The large and 
small spirals were introduced into the main circuit. 

The small main spiral being now placed opposite the small secondary 
spiral at a distance of 2 lines, the maximum retarding action of the i 
secondary spiral took place when it was closed with 29.6 feet of Ger- 
man silver wire. With this maximum effect the temperature of the 
main circuit was 76 per cent, of that which was observed without the 
lateral spiral, or when it was perfectly closed. 

When the large secondary spiral was opposed to the large main 
spiral at a distance of 2 lines, the maximum retarding action of the 
secondary wire occurred when the latter was closed by 79 feet of Ger- 
man silver wire, and in this case the temperature in the main wire was 
reduced by the retarding action of the secondary spiral to 25 per cent. 

Finally, the two secondary spirals, properly connected, being placed 
opposite the two main spirals, then 138 feet of German silver wire had 
to be introduced into the secondary circuit to obtain the maximum 
retarding effect, and the temperature in the main wire was thereby 
reduced to 20 per cent, of that which would have been observed with- ' 
out a lateral spiral. From these experiments it follows that — 

The maximum effect of a secondary wire upon the electrical discharge 
attained by lengthening the secondary circuit is as much greater as the 
length of the main ivire acting on the secondary luire is greater. But, 
at the same time, to attain this maximum, a proportionately longer circuit 
is required for the secondary loire. 

The length of the platinum wire in the air thermometer in these 
experiments was 143.5 lines. This wire, which is very long in pro- 
portion to the whole circuit, can never act inductively on the secondary 
wire ; to make the longest possible part of the main wire act on the 
secondary spiral, the wire in the thermometer must be shortened, by 
which means the action of the main wire is, indeed, increased, but on 
the other hand the sensibility of the thermometer is diminished. 



EECENT PROGRESS IX PHYSICS. 



347 



Fis. 63. 




Riess, in order to shorten the platinum wire -which closed the main 
Spiral, used Berguet's metallic thermometer instead of the air ther- 
mometer, 

• A straight platinum wire 61.5 lines long and 0.04 line radius was 
fastened immovably in the axis of a sensitive thermometric spiral, 
similar to that represented in fig. 63, and intro- 
duced into the circuit in a suitable manner. The 
[instrument was of course placed under a bell- 
glass. The platinum wire in the axis, on being 
'heated by a discharge of the battery, commu- 
•nicated its heat to the spiral ; the index then 
liraversed a number of degrees, but soon returned 
:to its first position, in consequence of the rapid 
(cooling caused by the large volume of air in the 
Jbell-glass. 

I The experiments with the metallic thermometer 
iteach nothing new, on which account no further mention need be made 
lof them, though I could not leave this method of observing unnoticed. 

I § 66. Direction of the secondary current.— -T^o investigate whether 
;the direction of the lateral current changes with the distance of the 
^secondary wire from the main wire, Riess used the following method. 
'(Pog. Ann., LXXI, 351.) 

Au insulator, which cannot be pierced by electricity, being placed 

between the free ends of the secondary spiral, no secondary current 

occurs. Nevertheless the electrical equilibrium of the secondary wire 
[is destroyed by the act which would have produced the current, as the 

following experiment shows : 

I If we place between the free ends of the p.i„ ^4 

[secondary spiral a thin cake ot resin, so 

^that the two ends of the wire are opposed 

[to each other, after the discharge of the 

[battery by the main line, the two surfaces 

[of the cake of resin may be distinguished 

;from each other in the most decided man- 

'ner. Peculiar electrical figures are pro- 

'duced, which, in most cases, are brought 

out by slightly breathing upon them. If 
jit be desired to fix the figures, it is done, 

as shown by Lichtenberg, by strewing the 

surfaces with a mixture of flowers of sul- 
iphur and minium. On one of the sur- 
■ faces of the resin treated in this way there 
'appears a red disk, with a red border, and beyond it a dark (unpow- 
;dered) ring, surrounded by yellow rays. On the other surface yellow 
'and red segments of circles are visible, embraced by a wide red ring. 
The rays and the ring increase with the 

strength of the electrical excitation; with 
' very feeble excitation the rays of the first 

figure are wanting, and a simple red disk 
r remains, which, however, is sufficiently dis- 
\ tinct from the second figure, in which the 
I red ring may always be recognized. 




Fig. 65. 



FiR. 66. 







348 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



Each of these figures is composed of the two elementary forms 
wliich Lichtenberg has distinguished as positive and negative, and 
for this reason the direction of the secondary current cannot be de- 
duced I'rom these figures. 

In the ibllowing experiments the ends of the secondary spiral were 
lengthened by copper wires, and a part of one formed a short, close 
coil, wound to the right. In fig. 67 let x and y indicate the ends of 
the secondary spiral to which the above-mentioned wires are attached. 1 
To magnetize a steel needle the ends a and /? were 
^'"■^'^* put in contact, and the needle was placed in the coil, 1 

with its point toward m. To obtain the figures on j 
the resin it was introduced between a and ^. The i 
results contained in the following table were obtained i 
with the small main and secondary spirals, consisting { 
of 13 feet of copper wire, already mentioned. 

In the main spiral the discharge current passed in i 
the direction indicated by the arrow. The ibllowing » 
table shows the polarity indicated by the needle when c 
it lay in the coil pointing towards m. 
A glass plate was interposed between the two spirals. 




ffk OI-jP 



Distance of 
spirals. 


Main wire. 


Quantity of 
electricity. 


Polarity 
at m. 


Line. 




5 
10 
10 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 


N. 






N. 




Lengthened 


N. 


25 


Lengthened 


S. 

N. 


25 
39.5 


Lengthened 


S. 

s 









It is seen that for the same direction of the main current the mag- 
netism of the needle varies with the other circumstances, whence a 
difference in the directions of the second-ary current might be deduced; 
but the resin plate being interposed between a and /9, and the battery 
discharged through the main spiral under all the circumstances given 
in the table, fig. 65 was constantly formed on the side of the resin 
plate turned toward the end of the wire /? — a proof that the direction 
of the secondary current remained the same^ though the magnetism 
of the needle was reversed. 

Eiess used for producing the figure a small glass or copper plate, 
both sides having been covered with a thin coating of pitch or resin. 

A surface of resin once used must be heated over the flame of a 
spirit lamp to melting before it can be employed again. 

The direction of the secondary current, which, as already remarked, 
could not be directly determined from the figures of the resin plate, 
was ascertained in the following way : Two three-inch condensers 
were separated by a thin plate of mica ; the lower one touched the 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 349 

^d of the wire a ; the upper was so near the end /9 that, in dis- 
[harging the hattery, a small bluish spark passed. After discharging 
jlirough the main spiral the upper plate was removed and tested by 
he electrometer. For a positive charge of the battery the condenser 
ijlate, which touched the end /3, was found electro-negative. The 
Jayed figure (fig. 65) is, therefore, always produced by the end charged 
nth negative electricity ; and, consequently, the secondary current has 
\lways the same direction as the main current, 

' The experiment made by Riess for ascertaing the direction of the 
ateral current by the decomposition of iodide of potassium i'ailed, as 
|e did not succeed in producing the decomposition by the secondary 
^irrent.— (Pog. Ann., XLVII, 74.) 

i § 67. Defection of the magnetic needle hy frictional electricity. — The 
ioils of a multiplier, used for producing a deflection of the magnetic 
;:eedle by a current of frictional electricity, must be very well insulated, 
liess has constructed such a multiplier (Pog. Ann., XL, 348) of a 
jopper wire 105 feet long and one-sixth line in diameter, which, 
lovered with three coats of silk and in 260 coils, formed 5 layers on 
-eing wound upon a suitable frame. Before winding a length of the 
/ire it was twice covered with shellac varnish, and the wrapping 
mt on before the varnish was perfectly dry. Each layer was again 
larnished after wrapping. 

The cylindrical astatic needles belonging to this coil were 22 5 lines 
png, 0.4 line in diameter, and 5 lines apart. The combined needles 
ade one oscillation in 6.6 seconds. 

One of the wire ends of such a multiplier being placed in conducting 
nnexion with the conductor, the other with the cushion of the elec- 
ical machine, a deflection of 10 to 20 degrees could be maintained 
ly turning. 
\ \ When it is desired to deflect the needle by the discharge current of 
■he electrical battery the discharge of course must be retarded by the 
iQsertion of bad conductors, such as moist strings, glass tubes filled 
irith water, &c. 

, The latest experiments made by Riess on this point (Pog. Ann., 
ILVII, 535) gave results showing that the deflection of a magnetic 
ieedie by the wire which slowly discharges an electrical battery is 
ndependent of the surface of the battery, provided a perfect discharge 
'f the bat-tery takes place. It is therefore immaterial to the dtflec- 
ion of the needle whether the same quantity of electricity is distri- 
'•uted over one or over several jars. 

I Faraday had attempted [Experimented Researches, 363, Pog. Ann., 
1:9) to compare the discharge current of the electrical battery Avith 
,hat of a voltaic current. After obtaining a given deflection of the 
inagnetic needle by discharging a battery he constructed a voltaic 
')air, which, acting 3i seconds, produced the same deflection as the dis- 
charge of the battery ; and he concluded that the quantity of electricity 
'ielded by the pair was equal to that accumulated in the battery. 

Riess justly remarks, that this conclusion is not well founded, be- 
iiause the instantaneous action of the discharge current of the battery 
)n the needle is essentially different from that of a galvanic current. 



350 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



B^P^ 



I have reported Riess' researches without interrupting the course 
the narration by speaking of what has been done by others on the sa 
subject. Let us now turn to these labors. 

§ 68. Knochenhauer' s researches on the current. — In a second article, 
with the title ^^ Experiments on Latent Electricity^" {Versuche iiber 
die gehundene,Elektricitdt, Pog. Ann., LVIII, 391,) Knochenhauer pre- 
sents the law according to which the force of the secondary current 
decreases when the distance from the main wire increases. 

Riess has shown, as already mentioned, § 61, that the force of the 
secondary current decreases in the same proportion in which the axial i ' 
distance of the secondary wire from that of the main wire increases. 

Knochenhauer thinks this law is " evidently insufficient." 

Starting, apparently, from the idea that the lateral current is a phe- 1 
nomenon of induction, Knochenhauer attempts to apply here his law.* 

That a law stating the relation between action and distance, adapted 
to the case of spherical bodies only, in which all action can be consid- 
ered as starting from a single point, cannot hold good for wires run- 
ning parallel to each other does not stop Herr Knochenhauer. His 
law has such an astonishing elasticity that, by barely changing the co- 
efficient, it serves for the secondary current. In his opinion there sub- 
sists between the force of the secondary clirrent (measured by the air 
thermometer) and the distance of the wire the relation 

6 = AaVnr~ 

in which 6 denotes the temperature of the thermometer in the second- ; 
ary wire, and n the distance of the secondary from the main wire. 

This n, however, is not the axial distance, but the distance of the 
wire in the clear, in which he assumes three lines as unity ; hence 
the magnitude of 7i has first to be computed from the axial distance 
a given by Riess. 

He first compares his formula with the results found by Riess. A 
series of these observations he arranged in the following table, with 
the values computed by his formula : 



d. 


6 observed. 


e computed. 


Difference. 


Lines. 








2.71 


0.216 


0.219 


+ 0.003 


6.78 


0.145 


0.143 


— 0. 002 


11.24 


0.119 


0.104 


— 0. 015 


16.01 


0.081 


0.079 


— 0. 002 


19.61 


0.066 


0.066 


0.000 


23.87 


0.054 


Q. 055 


+ 0.001 



In fact the values observed and those computed by the above form- 
ula correspond sufficiently well by making A= 0.401, a= 0.489. 
Indeed, the formula answers for very short distances, for which the 
law of Riess, on evident grounds, is no longer applicable. 

But does this accordance of Knochenhauer's formula with the observa- 



*See Report of 1856. 



EECENT PKOGEESS IN PHYSICS. 



351 



ions prove its correctness ? Certainly not. When there are two 
onstants at our disposal it is easy to invent a whole mass of formulas 
i/hich would serve just as well ; that is, they will accord with the few 
liumbers observed within narrow limits, quite as closely as the limits 
ire narrow. As a proof I propose 

<y = A + 6 log. D ; 
[he first best arbitrary formula that occurs to me. In this formula let 
) denote the temperature of the secondary wire, D the axial distance 
if the wires. Making A = 0.276, and b = 0.16, this formula will 
{gree with Riess' observations as well as that of Knochenhauer ; as the 
following table shows, in which the third vertical column contains 
[he values computed by the above formula : 



i 
d. 


e observed. 


e computed. 


Difference. 


Lines. 








2.71 


0.216 


0.207 


— 0.003 


6.78 


0. 145 


0.143 


— 0.002 


11.24 


0.119 


0. 107 


— 0.012 


16.01 


0.081 


0.084 


+ 0.003 


1 19.61 


0. 0G6 


0.069 


+ 0.003 


23.87 


0.054 


0.056 


— 0. 002 



I In spite of this harmony between observation and computation, this 
I'ormula expresses just as little as Knochenhauer's, the law according 
to which the force of the secondary current decreases with the distance 
from the main wire. 

Knochenhauer has himself made a series of experiments to confirm 
is formula, and by which he would show that the magnitude of a 
ijiepends upon the conducting capacity of the main circuit,, of the sec- 
pndary circuit, &c. The description of the modus operandi of the 
experiments, how the wires were extended, &c., is exceedingly obscure, 
,and since, I think, I have proved the inaccuracy of his formula, a 
further account of these experiments is unnecessary. 

This memoir forms the introduction to liirther researches, which 
■relate to the secondary current and currents in branched circuits. 
The following are the titles of the memoir on these subjects: 

On the lateral current in divided conducting wires of the battery. — 
j(Pog. Ann,. LX— LXX, 235.) 

I On the electrical current in divided conducting wires of the battery. 
|(Pog. Ann., LXI, 55.) 

I On the diminution of the main current with divided conducting 
[wires of the battery. — (Pog. Ann., LXII, 353.) 

i On the relation of the formulas which determine the development 
[of heat by the electrical and the galvanic current. — (Pog. Ann, , LXII, 
207.) 

Experiments on the electrical secondary current. — (Pog. Ann., 
|LXIV, 64, and Pog. Ann., LXVI, 235.) 

; Determination of the compensating length of wire without the air 
[thermometer.— (Pog. Ann., LXVII, 327.) 



II 



352 EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

Solution of the problems recently proposed on branclied galvaniiL 
currents, for the discharge current of the electrical battery, — (Poo- 
Ann., LXVIII, 136.) 

On the ratio of tension in the discharge current of the electrica 
battery.— (Pog. Ann., LXIX, 11.) 

On the comparison of the electrical formula with the galvanic— 
(Pog. Ann., LXIX, 421.) 

The experiments mentioned in these memoirs are very badly del 
scribed ; the discussions inflated, confused, and full of difficult formulas! 
which do not lead to simple, clear, and well founded results. 

Since the design of this report is to present to the reader the prO' 
gress of physics, and not to weary him with criticisms on fruitlesr 
labors, I need say no more of Knochenhauer's memoir on the latera; 
current and kindred subjects. The criticism on the abovementioned 
paper suffices to justify me in this respect. 

§ 69. Charging current of the electrical battery. — In Fig. 68 let o 
and b denote two electrical batteries, both of which are insulated ( 
The exterior coatings of both batteries being in metallic connexion,] 
suppose a to be charged and b to remain uncharged. 

Fig. 68. Now, if any suitable discharger, 

^____^„«-^ fitted to the knob of the jar b, ap-i 

^feo^— — f% preaches the knob of the charged 

^' Y jar, a spark passes, the jar a be- 

^^p '^^ comes partially discharged, a part 

!« I ill °^ *^® ^®' ^'^ positive electricity; 

fr^|S^ |_^ ^ which was accumulated on the in- 

I ;:^ |: ; J ner coating of a, passes with a 

<^„M.,. i..,EJfS! j^,„i ^.„„lt::S Tr;ai> spark to the inner coating of b, 

j II while a corresponding quantity of 

' negative electricity passes without 

a s[)ark, by the cunducting connexion of the outer coatings, from a 
tob. 

In this manner a is partly discharged and b charged ; the charge 
of b is not gradual, as in ordinary charging of jars, but very rapid. 
Dove terms the current which, passing from the outer coating of a 
to that of b, charges the latter battery, the charging current, (Ladungs-' 
Strom,) and he has compared the action of this current with the action 
of the discharge current already amply investigated. He found the^ 
following results, (Pog. Ann,, LXIV, 81 :) 

1. Induction. In the outer connecting wire a cylindrical induction 
spiral was introduced, surrounded by an exterior secondary spiral. 
The effects were the same as in the discharge stroke. 

2. Sparks. The outer connecting wire having been interrupted, a 
brilliant white spark, with a loud report, appeared at the place of 
external interruption the instant tlie spark at the inner conducting 
wire passed. A moist thread being introduced into the inner con- 
ducting wire, the spark assumes a redish yellow color and has a feeble 
report ; the same change is also indicated in the place of interruption 
of the outer connecting wire, in which there is no moist thread. 

Dove found further that the "charging current" produced in the : 
same manner as the discharge current. i'i 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 353 

3. Galvanic effects. 

4. Magnetization of steel. 

5. Physiological effects. 

6. Penetration of bad conductors, and 

7. Evolution of heat. 

The needle of a galvanometer inserted in the connecting wire of 
he outer coatings is not affected when the inner coatings are brouo^ht 
Into metallic contact with a white and loudly sounding spark, without 
the interposition of a moist thread ; but it is sensibly affected when a 
noist thread is introduced there. The magnetizing of a steel needle 
placed in a spiral was produced with great effect in the first case, 
iVithout interposition,) but feebly in the second case, (with inter- 
oosition.^ 

I The contents of one of Dove's papers in Poggendorf's Annalen, 
'LIV, 305,) bearing the title, " On the current induced in magnetiz- 
ing iron by means of frictional electricity, 'i will have to be presented 
later, because this subject is closely related to the corresponding 
l^ffects of the galvanic current. 

I § 70. HankeVs researches on magnetizing steel needles hy the discharge 
\parkof the electrical battery. — Hankel has published two large me- 
fnoirs on this subject, (Pog. Ann., LXV, 537, LXIX, 321.) In the 
idrst he speaks of Savary's observations, and then proceeds to the 
ilescription of his own experiments, the resultsof which are as follows: 
1. When the discharge stroke passes through a spiral in which a 
iteel needle is placed, a certain minimum of charge is generally ne- 
jessary to magnetize the needle. Calling the polarity which it receives 
)y the discliarge stroke of this minimum, normal, the needle will be- 
lome abnormally magnetic by gradually increasing discharges, and 
^gain normal by still stronger charges, &c. The abnormal magnet- 
iism appears with strong charges of the battery, as the pieces of wire 
introduced into the circuit of the battery are longer in proportion as 
ihe charge is stronger. 

i When in addition to the spiral and the pieces of the conducting 
iircuit remaining constant in all the experiments, an iron wire 34 
jieet long and 0.1 line in diameter was introduced, abnormal magnet- 
ism was obtained with a charge 70 (measured by sparks of the measur- 
ing jar) ; on inserting 82 feet of the same wire a charge of 120 was 
Required, and a wire of 154 feet required a charge of 160. 
I 2. When a battery of more, and then one of fewer jars was used 
ipith the same conducting circuit, the battery of the less number of 
jars produced the abnormal period with a less charge. ' 

; An iron wire of 202 feet having been introduced, a charge of 20 
ffith two jars produced abnormal magnetization, while by using 5 
ars it was only obtained with a charge of 70, and with 9 jars, even 
Ihe quantity of electricity 230, did not produce abnormal magnetiza- 
ion. 

I If with gradually increasing charges, the change from normal to 
.bnormal magnetization is not always obtained, these periods are 
'levertheless not wholly wanting ; for an increase and decrease of the 
Itrength of the normal magnetism is observed, and the minima of the 
' 23 s 



354 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS- 

normal magnetization correspond in this case to the abnormal 
periods. 

Hankel applied himself to the explanation of this phenomenon, 
and he lays down the following as the fundamental idea : 

" It is known from Faraday's researches, that a current at its com- 
mencement generates an opposite current in a neighboring conductor ; 
at its cessation, on the other hand, a second current which passes in 
the same direction with the original one. The electrical sparks must 
act in both ways, upon a steel needle placed near the wires, as the 
needle is perpendicular to the direction of the current, the planes of i 
the currents produced in the needle are likewise perpendicular to the j 
length of the needle, and the magnetism of the needle will be inii 
opposite directions according as we consider it to be excited by the i 
action of the beginning or by the cessation of the spark. But the two« 
instants of beginning and end of electrical sparks follow each other sos 
rapidly, that their separate? effects cannot be measured; -hence magnet-;) 
ization is the result of both of these influences." j 

This is essentially the fundamental idea to which Wrede (SerzeZm' Ji 
Jahreshericht, deutsch von Wohler, 20ster Jahrgang, S. 119,) soughtll 
to reduce the alternate normal and abnormal magnetism of steel needles ' 
by the discharge stroke in main as well as in secondary wires. 

As already intimated by Kiess, {Dove's Repertorium, VI, 218,) this 
mode cf explanation belongs yet to the domain of conjecture. It is 
possible that this is the natural process in magnetizing steel needles 
loj the discharge stroke, but it is by no means proved. 

On the whole this explanation seems very plausible; but the deduc- 
tion of the particulars of the phenomenon is not at all convincing, 
although Hankel expresses himself quite at length upon the subject. 
We will do well to consider this as still an open question. 

Riess remarks, in the place above cited in Dove's Repertorium, that 
it is better, and more for the furtherance of science, openly to confess 
the deficiencies of our knowledge, than to attempt to aid it with half 
explanation and to cover up its defects ; and in this connexion he 
quotes a passage from Franklin's letters, which should be taken to 
heart by every scientific man : 

*^I find a frank acknowledgment of one's ignorance is not only the 
easiest way to get rid of a difficulty, but the likeliest way to obtaini 
information ; I think it an honest policy." 

In the second memoir Hankel treats of the following points : 

1. The number and magnitude of the magnetizing periods, men- 
tioned in the first memoir. 

2. The action of different spirals. 

3. The action of the conducting wire upon itself. 

4. The influence of the thickness of the needles. 

5. The influence of the surface of the battery. 

6. The changes of the alternations by obstacles interposed. 

7. Special influence of particular metals^ totally distinct from theii 
conducting capacity. 

We will consider these points in succession : 

1. As a magnetizing spiral, a spiral of silver wire was employee 
with coils so close that the introduced needle covered 31 of them, 



I 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



ODD 



,he charge of the battery was regularly increased by 1 spark of the 
leasuring jar, and at each discharge a new needle was magnetized ; 
|ie strength of the magnetism communicated was then determined by 
le time which the needle required to make a given number of vibra- 
lons. A copper wire 2.63 metres long and 1.2966 millimetre diam- 
j;er was used in the circuit together with the spiral. 
j In this manner Hankel made a series of experiments whose results 
[-e represented graphically in fig. 69. The abscissas are '-ronortional 




i the strengths of the battery charges, the ordinates to the strengths 
{ the corresponding magnetization. The ordinates above the hori- 
jintal correspond to normal, those below to abnormal magnetism. 

This curve does not produce the impression of regularity ; it seems 
ither to mask some sort of a law by irregularities which cannot be 
)rrected by computation. But in such cases the law may be repre- 
ifnted by averages obtained from numerous experiments. 

Hankel says he repeated these experiments with the shortest circuits, 
) determine the position of the abnormal, or equally significant weak 
prmal periods ; from all his experiments with the same kind of needle, 
ting the same battery of nine jars, he found these periods to occur in 
ie following charges: 3, 6, 9, 11, 14, 16, 18, 21, 23, 26, 29, 32, 
p, 40. 

Hankel says, " we see that the change in the polarity returns regu- 
■rly ;" but I can find in this series of numbers nothing very clearly 
^pressed, and least of all regularity. He says, moreover, that this regu- 

i'rity might have been more clearly represented by the introduction 
fractions, but he purposely avoided them, as he had not measured 
em exactly, but only estimated them. 

I Now, what does this mean ? Does not the above series of numbers 
^present the means of numerous experiments made under the same 
iindition ? If this is the case, why hesitate to introduce fractions ? 
^ean values are generally computed, not observed. 
, To render it possible for the reader to judge of the value of his re- 
filts, Hankel should have told how he arrived at the series 3, 6, 9, 

E, &c. ; and he should have communicated the separate series of 
periments in order that one might ascertain how far the separate 
ries differed from the mean on account of accidental disturbances. 



356 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



2. The seiles of experiments represented by fig. 69, were compared 
Avitli two others in which the spirahs were so moved in the directio n o 
their length that the needle covered only 28 coils in the second, andf 
only IH in the third series. The general result was, that the periods I 
were longer in proportion as the needles covered fewer coils. 

3. As mentioned above, Kiess announced the proposition that, in dis- ' 
charging a ])attery, no part of the circuit acts inductively upon itself. 
Hankel contests this proposition. He comes to the opposite conclu- 
sion from the following experiments : 

A cop])er spiral of tolerably large diameter was surrounded by a 
similar spiral, the two being so arranged that the discharge could at 
pleasure be made to pass through the two, either in the same or in 
opposite directions.* A magnetizing spiral was also introduced into the i 
circuit The march of the magnetizing periods for both arrangements I 
being then compared they did not harmonize, and hence Hankel i 
inferied that there was necessarily an interference of effects. 

Even if it be conceded that Keiss' experiments are not sufficient td : 
establish hie proposition, those of Hankel are still less fitted to over- 1 
throw it ; for, in the phenomena of magnetism by the discharge stroke, ; 
our knowledge of what is regular or what may be accidental is not : 




such as to permit a safe conclusion to be drawn from the want of coin- 
cidence of two such series of experiments. 

The differences which occur in magnetizing steel needles, accordiug 

* Hankel gives the lliickness of tlie wire 'o the xTJT^iT^'o ''^ ^ millimetre, which appears to 
mc an unnecessary accuracy, considering the other relations of this series of experiments. 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. S57 

18 a long wire introduced into the circuit is extended in a straight 
line or wound into a spiral, will be considered helow under No 6. 

4. It appears in general, as Hankel infers from his experiments, 
;hat with coarse needles the phenomena do not change ; the anomalous 
periods occur only with stronger charges, and also appear to have lost 
n strength. 

5. New experiments on the influence of the surface of the battery, 
iorresponding to the previous ones, indicated that a diminution of the 
lurface brought about the anomalous periods with decreasing charges, 
)ut so shortened them .that, with a certain size of the battery, they 
;eased to appear as abnormal magnetization ; weak and strong normal 
)eriod8 only were then observed. 

6. Besides the short insertion, with which the results in fig. 69 were 
)btained, Hankel made experiments with inserted copperwires extended 
n a straight line 0.23 millimetre diameter^ and varying between 0.375 
md 96.4 metres in length. The curves 1 and 2, fig. 70, represent 
he results which he obtained with the wires 12 and then 96.4 metres 
ong. These curves seem to indicate that with longer insertions the 
eparate small periods disappear, until at last only a large normal pe- 
iod is observed with stronger magnetism, after which follows a very 
)road negative period, (from 30 to 100,) in which, however, very weak 
nagnetism is observed. 

With reference to the disappearance of the smaller periods, these 
jxperiments do not admit, in my opinion, of any certain conclusion, 
because the charge of the battery was increased from 5 to 5 for the 
onger insertions, and from 2 to 2 for the medium, while they increased 
[nly by 1 in the shortest. Where is the guarantee that in the longer 
*^ires single periods are not passed over ? Hankel preserves silence 
n this point. 

In relation to the influence of the coils, Hankel compares the result 
epresented by the second curve of fig. 70 with those which are given by 
03 metres of the same wire wound into 70 coils. While, with straight 
/ires, a normal period extends to 30, and is then followed by a long 
legative weak one, he observed, with coiled wires, 3 normal and 3 ab- 
ormal })eriods. 

When 26 metres of a very thick (30.76 square millimetres in sec- 
ion) quadrangular copper wire were inserted, no change was seen in 
he succession of the periods, but they were generally feebler. When, 
b addition, 113 metres of a round (1.3 millimetre) wire were inserted, 
jtretclied in a straight line, the results represented in the third curve 
|f fig. 70 were obtained. Nearly all reversions disappeared^ the needles 
leemed but i'eebly magnetic. 

When 94 metres of the thick wire were coiled into a spiral and 
pserted in the circuit, the results presented in the fourth curve of 
ig. 70 were obtained. The enfeebling of the magnetism appeared 
.ere in the thick coiled wires still more strikingly than in that ex- 
pended at length. 

The influence of the coiling upon the thick and the thin copjier wires is 
•vidently very different ; yet, says Hankel, (page 336 of his 2d Memoir,) 
he influence is the same in both cases. The discussion, by means of 
f/hich he seeks to prove this, is incomprehensible to me ; indeed, I 
annot call Hankel's reasoning in general clear and precise. 



358 EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

7. The insertion of iron wires yields remarkable phenomena, pro- 
ducing anomalous periods of very considerable strength. Hankel 
found them particularly striking with thick, long iron wires. While 
a thick copper wire greatly weakens the magnetism, the latter is con- 
siderably streagthened by a thick iron wire. On introducing an iron 
wire 1.27 millimetre diameter and 131 metres longit gave, forinstance, 
the result for a charge 6, a normal maximum 11 ; for a charge 36, an 
anomalous magnetism of the strength 9|, taking for unity the mag- 
netizing strength adopted in constructing the above curves. 

§ 71. Leyden jars of thick glass. — Winter, of Vienna, constructs 
Leyden jars which have a much greater striking distance than those' 
in general use, and he accomplishes this by using vessels with very 
thick sides, (over 1 line,) and by leaving a very wide uncoated border. 
Spontaneous discharge is prevented by the width of the uncoatedi 
border, and perforation of the glass is prevented by its thickness. In. 
such jars the tension of the free electricity on the inner coating cam 
reach a far higher degree than in the ordinary thin jars, in which, if 
a spontaneous discharge does not occur, a fracture of the glass is to 
be feared. 

The mutual induction of opposite electricities of the two coatings,; 
in consequence of the great thickness of the glass, is less perfect than 
with thinner glass. With the same quantity of coating, and with 
the same density of the free electricity on the inner coating, less elec- 
tricity will be accumulated in thick glass jars than in those of thin 
glass ; in general, therefore, the quantity of electricity which a thicb 
glass jar can receive is less, but the tension of the free electricity on 
the inner coating, and consequently the striking distance, is greater.' 
It is to be expected that with the greater striking distance, other 
effects of the discharge will also suffer a change. All effects of the 
discharge stroke, in which it is chiefly desirable that a great quantity 
of electricity should be sent through a body, can be produced better 
with large, thin glass jars, but where the force of the shock is the 
main object, thick glass jars serve the purpose better; hence it ap- 
peared to me probable that the perforation of glass plates should take! 
place much more easily with thick jars than with ordinary thin ones. 
Trial perfectly sustained my supposition. Formerly, in using large,, 
thin jars, a great number of revolutions of the machine were necessary 
to charge the battery sufficiently for the perforation of glass, and eveci 
then the experiment did not always succeed satisfactorily ; now, 2C 
revolutions of a very moderate electrical machine suffice to charge a 
thick glass jar so as to produce this effect with certainty. 

Fi?. 71. The thickness of the glass jar, fig. 71, is about 1 line 

each coating has a surface of about 9 square decimetres, 
and the uncoated border is 22 centimetres in height. 

I have not studied carefully the influence of the thick- 
ness of the glass upon the effects of the discharge stroke. 
and only make this notice in order to draw the attentioD 
of other physicists to the point. It is much to be wishec 
that Eiess would take up this subject, since he has already 
_ labored in this field with such generally acknowledgec 
good results. 




RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 359 

I § T2. Electrical figures. — By means of electricity, figures can be 
produced on the surface of different bodies, which are either directly 
ivisible or are rendered visible by strewing dust^ or by breathing upon 
;ieni. Riess has made an extensive series of experiments (Pog. Ann., 
LXIX, l"! on these phenomena, the best known of which are the 
Lichtenberg figures, and he has determined very accurately the cir- 
cumstances under which these figures and images appear. 
j Riess divides them into primary electrical delineations, or such as 
are caused by difi'erent parts on the surface of poorly conducting sub- 
stances being placed in unlike electrical condition, and becoming 
visible on being sprinkled with powders ; and 

[ Secondary electrical delineations, which are produced when the film 
pf foreign matter which covers nearly all bodies is affected by the 
electrical discharge ; in this case the figures are made to appear by 
breathing upon the plate, or else visible marks may appear imme- 
diately, if the surface of the body itself has been in any way attacked. 
I We shall first consider the figures made visible by sprinkling pow- 
|ier upon them. 

1 § 73. Dust figures. — To produce the Lichtenberg figures Riess used 
square copper plates, covered on one or both sides with a coat of pitch 
ubout i line thick. 

j The formation of dust figures (Lichtenberg figures) is a consequence 
pf the electroscopic action of electrified spots on the resinous surface 
upon the powder itself, electrified by shaking in the bag through 
which it is sifted. A mixture of flour of sulphur and minium is best 
jfor this purpose. Positively electrified places on the plate are covered 
iwith the sulphur, and therefore appear yellow ; the minium, on the 
contrary, is collected on the negative spots, which thus ap])ear red. 
I The spark having passed over the pitch surface, so that a dust 
l^gure would have appeared if it had been immediately dusted, no 
figure will be formed if the pitch surface is first exposed for a second 
^o the flame of a spirit lamp, by which the electricity is removed from 
^he plate. 

. The simplest mode of producing dust figures is the following, used 
also by Riess : A copper plate, covered on one side only with pitch, is 
•touched by a conductor, and an insulated metallic point is placed on 
"the pitch surface. The upper end of the point being touched by the 
knob of B. -positively charged jar, remove the insulated point, and on 
[powdering with the above described mixture a round yellow sun, with 
idense rays, will appear. 

i The experiment being conducted in the same manner with a nega- 
tively charged jar, a perfectly red circular disk will appear. 
: This diversity in the appearance of the figures is well known ; but 
^Riess has directed attention to another remarkable distinction, namely, 
[that the positive figure is much larger than the negative, though 
iequally strong charges have been used. 

[ With a given 'positive charge of the jar the yellow sun had (as a 
imean of 3 experiments) a diameter of 16.1 millimetres. 

With an equally strong negative charge the red disk had a diame- 
ter (also a mean of 3 experiments) of 5.8 millimetres. 

The diameters of the negative and positive figures, produced by 



360 RECENT PROGEESS IN PHYSICS. 

equally strong charges of the jar, are, consequently, in the ratio of 1 
to 2.77, or the surfaces covered by them are as 1 to 7.67. 

A plate, coated on both sides with pitch, on being brought between 
the insulated point and the conducting wire, and subjected to the 
above process, the positive figure appears on one side and the negative 
on the other. 

When the jar was charged with negative electricity, the disk ap- 
peared above and the sun below, but the j-ellow sun in this case was; 
only 2.2 times as large as the red disk. 

The cause ot the negative figures being relatively greater than in 
the previous experiment was owing to the excess of negative elec- 
tricity, which was transmitted t© the upper surface ; in fact, a sun ap-j 
peared on the upper side, which was 3.3 times as great as the redt 
disk on the under side, when a positively charged jar was used in a 
similar experiment. 

Riess has shown that the dust figures appear only when the passage- 
of electricity on the insulating plate is accompanied by a discontinuous! 
discbarge, which may be recognized generally by a peculiar hissing.; 
By holding the j3itched plate to the knob of a charged jar a sparki 
passes with a crashing noise ; a discontinuous discharge thus takeS' 
place, and a figure appears on dusting; but the plate being placed 
at such a distance from the knob of the jar that a spark cannot pass, 
some electricity still gradually goes over, producing a continuous dis- 
charge. If the plate is dusted after standing from 30 to 70 minutes 
opposite the knob of the jar, a number of round spots appear irregu- 
larly distributed — yellow, if the jar had a positive, red, if a negative^ 
charge. These spots exhibit no trace of rays ; they are perfectly alike 
in size and form for both electricities. 

Hence, electrical dust figures aiDpear when electricity is transmitted hy 
a discontinuous discharge to an insulathig plate. 

Upon this fact Riess founds a very ingenious explanation of the 
diff'erence between positive and negative dust figures. In a discon- 
tinuous discharge passing over the surface of an insulator the con- 
densed atmosphere, which covers the surface of all bodies, is forcibly 
penetrated, and a part of the stratum, containing vapor of water, if 
projected wiih violence against the surface of the body. 

But Faraday has shown that, if moist air impinges forcibly againsl 
any body, the latter is negatively electrified; thus, then, in this case'' 
the surface of the plate becomes negatively electrified in consequencf 
of the discharge which takes place over the surface; the remaining 
electricity of this discharge then has only to spread over a negatively 
electrified insulating surface. 

The surface being charged with negative electricity, it spreads froir 
the point over an insulating surface already negative ; the circum 
stances, therefore, not being favorable for the distribution of the nega- 
tive electricity the figure cannot become enlarged, and a roundec 
form is assumed. 

The jar being positively charged, the remainder of the positive 
charge spreads from the point over an insulating surface negatively 

* The experiments of Faraday referred to, scarcely allow of such a conclusion. — (Se' 
Report for 1856, p. 364.) G. C. S. 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 361 

electrified by the discontinuous discharge ; the fact that electricity is 
already present on the surface, acting attractingly on that issuing 
from the point, occasions a greater diffusion of the positive electricity ; 
but the circumstance that the positive electricity spreading forth is 
i[>artially neutralized by the presence of the negative, causes the radia- 
ting form of the positive dust figure. 

i To sustain this view^ Riess produced a modification of the phenome- 
iQon in rarified air. On a plate covered with pitch, placed under a 
glass receiver, was placed the blunt end of a wire, which received a 
3park from a jar charged with positive electricity. With the whole 
pressure of the air the sun appeared on dusting the plate ; but when 
|the air was exhausted to 27^ lines pressure, only an irregular yellow 
^peck appeared ; negative electricity behaved in like manner. The 
diflerence between the positive and negative figures was no longer 
pbserved at this degree of rarifaction. 

I When the air was exhausted to 2 or 3 lines the end of the wire left 
j&nly a point, which, luith positive electricity ivas red, with negative^ 
yellow ; and consequently caused, not by the transmission of electricity 
to the plate, but by induction. 

: The penetration of the stratum of air surrounding the plate is, 
therefore, the origin of dust figures. 

I § 74. Dust images. — If a stamp (as simple as possible, having a few 
^•aised letters, and for this reason printing types will answer) be 
blaced on a single pitch plate, (so Riess calls a copper disk coated on 
Sne side only with pitch,) and electricity be communicated to the 
^tamp, it acts inductively on the pitch surface, the latter becoming 
electrified at the spot where touched ; and this electricity is opposite 
Ito that of the stamp, for on removing it and powdering the plate with 
the mixture mentioned already, a red image of the letter is obtained, 
[if the stamp is positive ; a yellow one, if negative ; for the flcur of 
Sulphur attaches itself to the positive,, the minium powder to the nega- 
jtive spots of the resin plate. 

[ The above described phenomenon underwent numerous modifica- 
jtions, according to the manner in which the stamp was electrified. 
\ The stamp being touched by the knob of a charged Ley den jar, 
and then removed in an insulated condition, leaves au image as above 
indicated ; it is, however, very little covered with dust ; while the 
ground, by the formation of dust figures becomes yellow, if the letter 
is red, or red, if the letter is yellow. 

The stamp being removed uninsulated, the dust figure changes, 
^hereby the clearness of the image also suffers. 

By electrifying too strongly, an actual passage of electricity in part 
occurs at the place where the stamp touches the plate^ so that a dust 
image appears, partly red and partly yellow. 

I Then we have at the same time a dust image and dust figures. To 
(obtain the dust image clearly, the formation of the dust figures must 
be avoided, which Riess accomplished in various ways. 
! The knob of a Leyden jar was exchanged for a four-inch ball, and 
rthe jar fastened horizontally, so that the pitch plate and the stamp 
jcould be placed under the ball ; the stem of the stamp was half an inch 
from the ball. By the inductive action of the ball the end of the stamp 



362 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

touching the pitch was electrified like the ball : too strong an accumu- 
lation of electricity was prevented by providing the stamp with a point. 
After the stamp had been exposed from 20 to 30 minutes to the induc- 
tive action of the ball, a clear dust image appeared without any dust 
figure, but irregular spots ajjpeared in the ground, which were not of 
the color of the image. 

Similar results were obtained when the stamp was placed for several 
hours in connexion with one pole of a powerful dry pile, while the i 
electricity of the other pole was conducted off as completely as possible, t 

In these cases, in which generally no dust figures appeared, it was i 
indifferent whether the stamp was insulated or not, on its removal. 

The color of the irregular spots showed that they originated in the i 
electricity actually passing from the stamp to the pitch plate at the : 
places which admitted of a slight current. To avoid these, more ready 
passage to a conducting medium must be furnished for this electricity, , 
as in the case when the dust images were produced in rarified air. i 
Kiess obtained in this manner the most perfect dust images. 

The dust Jigtii^es and images, just considered, are, according to Riess, ; 
primary electrical delineations ; the figures and images now to be con- i 
sidered are secondary electrical delineations. 

§ 75. Electrical breath figures. — The surface of glass, mica, &c., . 
over which an electrical discharge stroke has passed, gives, by breathing 
upon it, peculiar ramified figures, which stand out from the surface 
obscured by the breath with a mirror-like lustre. 

The breath figure indicates the path taken by the electrical dis- 
charge over the surface ; and its form difiers therefore, according to 
the nature of this surface. On metal, it appears as a round disk ; on 
resin, as serpentine stripes ; on mica, as fine, many times ramified 
lines. 

The breath figure is independent upon the hind of electricity em- 
ployed. 

That these figures do not originate in the electricity which continues 
to adhere to the surface is established by the fact that they are seen 
on metallic surfaces, on which they appear after the breathing, as 
distinct circles, surrounded by more or less obscure rings ; the breath i 
figures also appear a long time after the discharge stroke has passed i 
over the surface, or after the surface has been passed over the flame of > 
a spirit lamp. Hence, the breath figures cannot be owing to adhering ■ 
electricity ; they are to he ascribed to a change of surface ivhich the sub- 
stance used has been subjected to, by the electrical discharge. 

On a fresh surface of mica, that is on such as is obtained by a fresh 
cleavage, breath figures do not appear. This depends upon a peculiar i 
property of fresh mica surface, which Riess has described in the 67th 
volume of Poggendorf's Annalen, page 354. 

A clean plate of mica being breathed on, or held over evaporating 
water, the result is, as with all bodies, that it will be covered with a 
rapidly disappearing stratum of water, consisting of very small drops, 
which are not in contact with each other. 

But when the mica has received a fresh surface by cleavage, it re- 
mains perfectly clear, shining and transparent after being breathed on. 

This phenomenon is by no means owing to the fresh surface not 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 363 

condensing vapor of water, for the breath causes it to show the colors 
'of thin plates ; it is consequently covered with a coherent stratum of 
'water. 

' A drop of water which stands at rest on an old surface of mica at 
■once spreads on a fresh surface, and completely covers it. Hence, a 
:mica surface made by cleavage possesses, in consequence of its great 
[purity, so great an attraction for the vapor of water that it condenses 
'the water into a coherent stratum, while, had the mica been exposed 
'a long-time to the air, it would have condensed the water in separate 
'drops. 

While an old surface of mica is an excellent insulator of electricity 
a, fresh surface discharges an electroscope in a few seconds ; it acts 
Ihygroscopically by condensing the vapor of water of the atmosphere 
into a coherent stratum, which conducts electricity. 

This remarkable peculiarity of fresh mica is preserved but a short 
ftime in the air ; in a few days it may be clouded by breathing upon it. 
f Very powerful electrical discharges produce not only a change in 
lithe film of foreign matter covering the body, but they alter the surface 
lof the body itself. This is the cause of the traces noticed in § 41, occa- 
isioned by the discharge spark on glass and mica (electrical colored 
istripes) and of the rings of Priestley , which occur when numerous dis- 
charges of a battery take place between a point and a polished metallic 
jSurface, whereby oxidation of the metal forms many colored concentric 
circles. 

§76. Karsten's Electrical Figures. — The analogy which Eiess de- 
tecribes in the VI volume of Dove's Repertorium der Pliysih, between 
lelectrical breath figures and the images of Moser, occasioned Karsten 
rto examine whether such images could not be obtained in the electrical 
way. 

I For this purpose he placed (Pog. Ann., LVII, 492) a coin on a 
imirror, resting on a discharging metal plate, and caused sparks to 
Istrike from the conductor of the machine upon the coin, thence passing 
!lto the metal plate, (around the edge of the glass.) After 100 revo- 
llutions of the machine the coin was removed ; the glass plate seemed 
jwhoUy unchanged, but when breathed upon the image of the coin 
^appeared distinctly. 

' Besides the memoir cited, Karsten has published two others, in 
;Poggeudorf 's Annalen, (LVIII, 115, and LX, 1,) on electrical images, 
•but as he has not succeeded in discovering their true nature, it is un- 
jnecessary to go further into the details of these memoirs ; and the more, 
jsince Riess, as we shall see, has correctly ascertained the condition for 
^producing electrical images. The report upon Riess' researches will 
^therefore suffice to bring the facts at least, to the knowledge of the 
(reader. 

We must, however, briefly notice, by the way, Karsten's last treatise 
in one particular. In the beginning he adduces many experiments 
'which have been made to explain the cause of Moser's images ; besides 
iMoser's own theory, he presents the opinion of Hunt, Know, Fizeau, 
'Daguerre, Masson and Moore. Why is the excellent work of Waideles 
fon this subject ignored ? it appears in the first half of the 59th vol- 
■ume of Poggendorf 's Annalen, and after these images had been the 



364 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

occasion of numerous theoretical extravaganzas, brought us back to 
the basis of a rational treatment of the subject. Could Karsten not 
have known of this work in drawing up the papers in the 60th volume 
of the Annalen f 

The explanation which Karsten gives of Moser's images is altogether 
inadmissible and may be easily refuted. He thinks that, because similar 
images can be produced by the aid of electricity, Moser's images must 
be of electrical origin. He thinks that ' ' if two bodies, differing in any 
respect from each other, come in contact, an electrical current is pro- 
duced!" and that this is the cause of Moser's images. 

The generation of an electrical current by the contact of two hetero- 
geneous bodies, which Karsten seems to intimate in this passage, will 
not be granted by the most zealous of the adherents of the contact 
theory ; but granting even the existence of such a current, it could 
not produce any image, as the researches of Kiess prove. 

That electrical tension alone, without repeated discharges between 
the body and the plate, is not sufficient to produce electrical images 
has been shown by Know in a paper "On electrical figures and ther- 
mography," (Pog. Ann., LXI, 569,) in which he has proved the 
untenableness of Karsten's view as to the electrical origin of Moser's 
images. 

The rest of the contents of Know's memoir will be mentioned sub- 
sequently in the proper place. 

§ 77. Electrical breath images. — Eiess placed a metal stamp on a 
shining pitch surface, and upon the stamp a small metal weight con- 
nected by a silver wire with the knob of the spark micrometer, receiving 
electricity directly from the conductor of the machine, while the other 
knob of the spark micrometer, one-half line from the first, was in con- 
ducting connexion with the ground. 

The machine being now turned, electricity accumulates upon the 
first knob of the micrometer and upon the stamp, until a discharge 
takes place by the passage of a spark between the two knobs ; con- 
tinued turning will charge and discharge the stamp anew. The 
discharges follow more rapidly the closer the knobs of the spark 
micrometer are together. 

After several revolutions of the machine the stamp may be removed, 
the plate breathed upon, when a shining image of the stamp shows 
itself on the dull ground. 

It is indifferent for the success of this experiment which electricity 
is used. 

Such images may also be produced on glass and mica, but on these 
substances they are often imperfect. 

The simple breath image, Riess says, in caused by repeated electri- 
cal discharges taking place in opposite directions between the model 
and the insulating plate. The electricity communicated to the model 
passes over to the plate, then back to the model, when the latter is 
discharged by the spark micrometer ; thus a motion of the same kind 
of electricity arises, first downward and thus upward. Since the dis- 
charges between a bad and a good conductor are never perfect, elec- 
tricity, both of the kind used and the opposite kind, remain upon the 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 365 

iiisiilating plates, which are therefore in the condition to produce dust 
■figures, oiten even dust images. 

; By simply eltctritying the stamp, the arrangement being the same 
las for producing dust images, no breath image appears. The alter- 
nate charge and discharge of the stamp are essentially necessary for 
ithe formation of these images. 

I By laying a plate of mica on a pitch plate, and placing a metal 
"stamp on this^ a double discharge of the same kind of electricity takes 
'place in the same direction in electrifying the stamp, namely, from 
the stamp to the upper surface of the mica, and from the under sur- 
'face of the mica to the pitch plate. When a spark is communicated 
to the stamp from a positively charged jar, the pitch surface, when 
Sdusted, shows a yellow image of the stamp, surrounded by positive 
dust figures. If, therefore, in this arrangement of the stamp alternate 
■charges and discharges are brought about, the conditions for forming 
Manifold breath images are fulfilled. 

i A pitch surface being covered with a mica plate and a stamp placed 
bn it, the latter was charged and discharged by the spark micrometer. 
After twenty revolutions the upper surface of the mica showed a per- 
fect breath image, but the under surfaces and that of the pitch pre- 
isented a most imperfect one. 

I These images are so frequently imperfect because pitch and mica 
jadhere closely together in consequence of the electricity remaining 
after each discharge and subsequent discharges is conveyed to places 
'which lie scattered beyond the image surface ; but a metallic plate 
being substituted for the pitch plate, a perfect breath image is ob- 
tained on the upper and lower surfaces of the mica and on the metallic 
teurtace. 

I The visibility of the breath images is to be explained, according to 
fRiess, by the fact that the surfaces are freed by electrical discharges 
Jirom the film of foreign matter with which they are generally covered ; 
iand he has even proved such a cleansing of the surface by images on 
[metal. On a perfectly insulating mica surface Iliess produced a breath 
iimage, and the place where the image appeared conducted as well as 
!a fresh surface of mica, thus showing that it had been freed from the 
letratum covering this spot. 

; In most cases breath images are produced by such a cleansing 
action, but they can be excited also by soiling the plate. 
i On a fresh mica surface an obscure image of a stamp was obtained 
jpn a shining ground. On an old surface, which electrified by forty 
fTevolutions, gave a bright breath image; one hundred revolutions 
ij)roduced a dull image. 

I The various kinds of dull breath images depend upon the condition 
lof the plate used and of the stamp, and also upon the strength of the 
ielectricity ; the clear images appear more frequently only because 
jfioiled plates and the least possible electricity are generally used, 
I The origin of the breath images, like that of the breath figures, is 
ito be ascribed to a change which the electrical discharge produces in 
'the stratum covering the plate, and consists in an increase or diminu- 
ition of this stratum, according to circumstances. 
' A spark thrown upon a metallic surface injures it when perfectly 



366 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

clean, but leaves it unchanged if it is soiled or tarnished. Thisistlie 
case, in forming breath images on metals. A very small number of dis- 
charges having passed between a metallic surface and one of m'ca 
covering it, the intermitting discharge begins in the foreign stratum 
on the surface of the metal, and the metal remains uninjured ; but 
when the stratum is destroyed, and the breath image is produced, and 
the discharges are continued, the latter then begin on the metal itself, 
which is thus changed. Such images, appearing without breathing, 
and representing some parts of the stamp in brownish colors, Riess 
produced on silver with from fifty to sixty revolutions. 

§ 78. Electrolytic images. — If the blunt point of a platinum needle 
be placed on a paper moistened with a solution of iodide of potassium, 
and lying on a metallic plate connected with the ground, a brown 
spot will appear under the point if the needle is electrified positively, 
but there will be no spot if it be negatively electrified. Using positive 
and negative electricity one after the other in any order, the coloring 
remains even when the quantity of negative electricity far exceeds 
that of the positive. 

This fact explains the electrolytic images, which Riess has invented 
for proving the correctness of the view presented above, on the forma- 
tion of breath images by alternating discharges. 

A piece of card paper, moistened on one surface with a solution of 
iodide of potassium, was laid on a metallic plate connected with the 
ground, and then covered with a plate of mica. A stamp was placed on 
the mica, and, being loaded with a weight of 2 to 14 ounces, was con- 
nected with the spark micrometer, whose knobs were \ a line asunder. 
After twenty revolutions of the machine, positive electricity continuing 
to pass between the knobs, a very sharp image appeared on the paper 
in which the letters of the stamp appeared with a brown color. 

The explanation of this phenomenon, according to the above, is easy. 
As in breath images, the stamp being charged with positive electricity, 
it passes from the lower surface of the mica to the metal plate, and 
thence through the moist paper ; by this passage of the -j- ^^ f o the 
metal plate the iodide of potassium is decomposed ; as soon as a dis- 
charge takes place between the knobs of the spark micrometer, an op- 
posite current sets in between the metal plate and the mica ; the -{- E 
now returns to the mica, and the — E through the moist disk to the 
metal. While the -f- E goes to the metal the iodide of potassium is 
decomposed, and this eft'ect is not destroyed by the discharge in the 
opposite direction. 

It is to be remarked that the passage of the -\- E from the mica to 
the metal takes place gradually, while the discharge in the opposite 
direction happens instantaneously. 

The same experiment being repeated in the same manner with — E, 
no image is obtained, but only irregular brown spots. 

This also may be easily explained ; the negative electricity goes 
gradually to the metallic plate, while the passage in the opposite di- 
rection is instantaneous ; thus, a greater quantity of positive elec- 
tricity returns at once to the metal plate, and passes more readily to 
such points as lie beyond the image surface. 

To obtain an image with negative electricity, care has only to be 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



367 



Itaten that the quantity of -|- E which returns on the discharge between 
the knobs to the metal plate, shall be less, which is attained bj bring- 
ing the knobs of the spark micrometer closer together. 



SECTION FOURTH. 



ELECTRICAL SPARK AND BRUSH. 

§ 79. Faraday's researches on the spark and brush. — Without going 
into the theoretical disquisition, mentioned in another place,* which 
iFaraday has given upon the spark and brush, T will present here only 
the most important facts which he has obtained in his experiments 
Jupon these phenomena of light. — (Pog. Ann., XL VII and XL VIII.) 
I In order to compare the resistance which different gases presented 
ito the passage of sparks, with the corresponding resistance of the air, 
'Faraday used an apparatus, a sketch 
"of which is represented in fig. 72 Fig. 72. 

Two small knobs, s and S, connected 
with the conductor of an electrical 
■machine, were placed opposite to two 
larger knobs, I and L, in conducting 
-connexion with the ground. The 
diameter of the balls was as follows: 



iBall s 0.93 of an inch. 

Ball^ 0.96 " 

Ball 1 2.02 " 

iBallZ 1.95 " 



; 



c 



( 



V 

j9 



^ 




I The constant interval v between s 
and I was 0.62 of an inch ; the inter- 
(val w between S and L was variable. 
I It would have been better if the 
itwo small balls s and IS had been 
perfectly equal in size, and I and L 
,al80 equal; much more reliable con- 
clusions could then have been drawn 
from these experiments. 

The two balls 5 and I were placed 
in a receiver, which could be exhaust- 
jUdand then filled with dilferent gases. 

' The receiver being filled with air under the pressure of the atmos- 
;phere, the sparks passed alternately at u and v, when the intervals at 
■u were between 0.6 and 0.79 inches. When the interval at u was less 
jthan 0.6 the sparks always passed here, but if it was greater than 
;0.79 the sparks then always passed at v. 



See § 24 in the Report for 1856. 



368 



KECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



Similar results were obtained when other gases were in the receiver 
under the atmospheric pressure. There were two limits for the in- 
terval at w, between which the spark passed at one time at u, at 
another at v; the interval at u being less than the least of these lim- 
iting numbers, the spark passed always at u, but being greater than 
the greatest of these numbers it always took place at v. The follow- 
ing table indicates the limits at u for different gases, v having the 
constant value of 0.62 inch : 



Air, s and S 

Oxj'gen, s and S 

Nitrogen, s and S. 

Hydrogen, s and S 

Carbonic acid, s and S... 

Olefiant gas, s and S 

Coal gas; s and S 

Muriatic acid gas, s and S 



Smallest. 



0.60 
0.59 
0.41 
0.50 
0. 55 
0.59 
0.30 
0. 25 
0. 56 
0.5B 
0.64 
0.69 
0. 37 
0.47 
0.89 
0.67 



Greatest. 



0.79 
0.68 
0.60 
0.52 
0.69 
0.70 
0.44 
0.30 
0.72 
0.60 
0.86 
0.77 
0.61 
0.58 
1.32 
0.75 



Mean. 



0.695 
0. 635 
0. 505 
0.510 
0.615 
0.645 
0. 370 
0. 275 
0. 640 
0. 590 
0.750 
0. 730 
0, 490 
0. 525 
1.105 
0. 720 



A similar series of experiments gave for- 



Smallest. 



Greatest. 



Mean. 



Hydrogen i I 

Carbonic acid.. >sandS-|-- 

Olefiant gas ) ( 



0.23 
0.51 
0.66 



0.57 
1.05 
1.27 



0.400 
0. 780 
0. 965 



which does not coincide very well with the former results, a proof that 
these numbers do not afford sufficient grounds for forming a conclu-i, 



sion. 



That within certain limits of distance at u the spark takes place 
alternately at u or v, and consequently that there is not a single per- 
manent value of 10 for each gas, over which the spark always happens 
at V, but under always at u, depends upon accidents (such as particles 
of dust floating in the air) of which we can give no account. 

If at one of the intervals a spark once passed there was generally a 
strong tendency in it to appear at the same interval again. 

It is a remarkable circumstance that the range of distance u should 
be much less when s and S are negative than when these balls are 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



369 



psitive. This is exhibited in the following table, drawn from the 
ixmer experiments. The range was — 



In air 

oxygen 

nitrogen 

hydrogen 

carbonic acid 

olefiant gas 

coal gas 

muriatic acid gas. 



s and S. 



0.19 


0.09 


0.19 


0.02 


0.13 


0.11 


0.14 


0. 05 


0.16 


0. 02 


0.22 


0. 08 


0.24 


0. 12 


0.43 


0.03 



[Althoiigh, as Faraday himself remarks, these numbers require con- 
sierable correction,, the general result is striking and the differences 
i several cases very great. 
It appears clearly from these experiments that different gases have 
Bt equal capacities for insulation. Considering the mean values of 
t (for positive charges of * and S,) we perceive that a stratum 0.62 of 
a inch of — 



Oxygen 
Nitrogen 
Hydrogen 
Carbonic acid 
Olefiant gas 
Coal gas 
Muriatic acid gras 



insulates as well as a stratum 
of air, whose thicknes is 



0.505 
0.615 
0.370 
0.640 
0.750 
0.490 
1.105 



tat is, an electrical discharge passes as easily through a stratum of 
ar 0.370 of an inch thick, as through one of hydrogen of 0.62 of an 
ich ; an electrical spark penetrates a stratum of air 1. 105 inch thick as 
elsily as one of 0.62 of an inch of muriatic acid gas; an electrical 
s|ark passes with decidedly more ease through oxygen, hydrogen, and 
cal gas than through an equal stratum of air ; but muriatic acid 
§s and olefiant gas present a decidedly greater resistance to the trans- 
Eission of the spark than an equal thickness of air does. 

iSimilar results were obtained from later but less reliable experi- 
rents.— (Pog. Ann., XLYIII, 281.) 

iThe mean values of w are not equal with positive and negative 

trges of S and s ; for many gases u has a greater mean value with 
ositive charge of S and s than with a negative; for other gases it 
i<the reverse; but to draw the conclusion from these experiments that 
r|iny gases more readily allow the negative and others the positive 
(^charge through them, seems to me unwarranted, because the differ- 
, elces of the above table in this respect are within the limit of errors 

q observation. 
. fThus, according to the table given above, the mean value of w with 
, positive charge of s and ^ is, for — 

' 24 s 



370 RECENT PROGEESS IN PHYSICS. 

Hydrogen , 0.37 

Carbonic acid , 0.64 

Olefiant gas 0.75 

while Faraday obtained from a subsequent series of experiments, sim- 
ilarly arranged, the following values: 

Hydrogen , 0.40 

Carbonic acid 0.78 

Olefiant gas 0.96 

Evidently the corresponding values of m, obtained by positive charges i 
of s and S , and which should be exactly equal, differ as much from i 
each other as the corresponding values for the positive and negative •■' 
charges of s and S; from which it appears that we are justified in assign- i 
ing no great value to these differences. But there is a further reason < 
for ascribing these differences to errors of observation, arising from 
the fact that when air is in the receiver, and the spark accordingly takes ; 
l)lace throughair, the positive and negative mean values for u are found < 
unequal, namely: with s and S positive u =z 0.695 ; with s and 8 >. 
negative u = 0.635. These differences can be ascribed only to acci- i 
dental disturbances, which produce the errors of observation ; for why 
should the spark, with a positive charge of s and S, pass more 
easily through the air at v, and with a negative charge, more easily 
at u, also through the air? Air being in the receiver, and + and — 
charges imparted to s and 8, the values for u would be nearly identi- ^ 
cal, unless the errors of observation were too considerable, 

Faraday himself does not consider these experiments decisive in this 
respect, but brings forward some facts which seem to indicate some 
such difference between the positiveand the negative discharge; making 
w =: 0.8 of an inch, and filling the receiver with muriatic acid gas, 
the discharge always took place, with a positive discharge of s and S, 
at u, through air, but with a negative charge of s and S at v, through 
the muriatic acid gas. 

It also appeared that when the conductor was connected only with 
the muriatic acid gas apparatus the discharge occurred more readily ' 
with a negative discharge of the small ball s than with a positive ; for ) 
in the latter case much of the electricity passed off as brush discharge ; 
through the air from the connecting wire ; but in the fl^rmer case it ' 
allseemed to go through the muriaticacid. — (Pog. Ann., XLVII, 287.) 

§ 80. Unequal striking distances of positive and negative discharge.— 
Many known phenomena coincide in showing that positive and nega- 
tive discharges do not take place with equal facility. When a small 
ball, connected with the conductor and thus made inductive, is placed ■ 
opposite a larger one, which is uninsulated, a spark is obtained twice « 
as long, the conductor being charged positively, as when negatively i 
charged. 

Faraday has closely investigated this phenomenon, and obtained 
the following facts : 

He passed the discharges between two balls of the respective diame- 
ters of 2 inches and 0.25 of an inch. The larger ball being connected I 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



371 



ritb the conductor, and thus made inductive, there appeared with a 
lositive conductor — ■ 

parks alone up to an interval of 0.49 in. 

^legative brush, from the small ball alone, when the inter- 
val was greater than ,. 0.52 '• 

"With a negative conductor — 

Iparks alone up to an interval of 1.15 " 

Positive brush, from the small ball alone, when the interval 

I was greater than 1.G5 •" 

I Between these limits he obtained sparks and brushes mixed. 
* The balls were then exchanged, the small ball being connected with 
jhe conductor, and the large one uninsulated. The result with a 
ijositive conductor was — 

Sparks alone to an interval of. 0.4 in. 

f^egative brush alone, when the interval was greater than.. 0.44 " 
i From these experiments it follows that — 

! 1. Longer sparks are obtained when tlie small ball is positively 
[ilectrified. 

I 2. Longer sparks are obtained when the large ball is the inducing, 
Lnd the small one th" inducteous ball. 

! When the small ball discharges electricity in the form of brushes, 
Ihey are much more numerous, and each one seems to carry ofi'.much 
less electrical force when the discharged electricity is negative than 
pirhen positive. 

I This appears to indicate that a small ball requires a greater tension 
for discharging when positive than when negative. 
\ To illustrate this important point, Faraday arranged an apparatus, 
hpresented in fig. 73. A fork. A, carrying a large and a Fi?. 73. 
f^mall ball, was connected with the conductor of a machine ; 
ft perfectly similar fork, B, was connected with a discharg- 
ing train ; the small ball on each fork was placed opposite 
Lihe larger one on the other. The intervals at n and were 
?qual. The conductor being negative, the discharge al- 
[ways happened at n, which is not surprising, because the 
liegative charge of the small inducing ball at n is always 
Wronger than the positive charge of the small inductions 
iball at 0. But had the discharge taken place at o with a 
Ijositive cl large of the conductor, it would have appeared 
[that the weak negative charge of the small inducteous 
Iball discharges with greater facility than the far stronger 
positive charge of the small inducing ball at n, which 
jwould have been a decisive proof of the more facile dis- 
icharge of negative electricity. But such a decisive result 
jthe experiments did not give ; when the intervals at n and 
:0 were 0,9 of an inch, or 0.6, the discharge always took 
place at n, whether the conductor was positive or negative. 

The interval n being made 0.79 and 0.58 of an inch, if the con- 
ductor was positive, the discharge at both w and was about equal, 
}jUt if negative, the discharges mostly happened at n, which signified, 




S72 RECENT 'PROGEESS IN PHYSICS. 

evidently, that the small ball discharged in the negative state some- ' 
what mure easily than in the positive, yet their result is not perfectly) 
decisive, 

A contrivance, similar to that of fig. 73, was placed inside a glass i 
vessel, which conld be filled with different gases. With equal inter- i 
vals at n and o, Faraday obtained quite decided results for carbonic ;| 
acid. When the conductor was positive the discharge took place i 
mostly at o, when negative always at n ; here, then, the negative dis- r 
charge was decidedly the more easy, and in coal gas the preponderance i 
{•f the negative discharge was just as decided. In air and in oxygen r: 
the greater facility of the negative discharge appeared -somewhat .1' 
doubtful ; in nitrogen and in hydrogen there appeared some probability vj 
of an opposite relation. 

Belli has made experiments, from which it follows that negative i 
electricity escapes more easily into air than positive. — (Pog. Ann, 
XXXV, 73.) 

After fastening a quadrant electrometer on a horizontal insulated 1 
conductor and electrifying it 'positively, he found, as a mean of three :■' 
experiments, that the electrometer required a period of ten minutes * 
to sink from 20° to 10° ; but with negative electricity only 4.5 
minutes were re(][uired. 

§ 81. Sparks in different gases. — The phenomena attendant on sparks 
in different gases have been often observed and described. Faraday 
has made experiments on this subject also, and describes them in the 
twelfth series of his Experimental Kesearches. — (Pog. Ann. XLVII, 
536.) 

The gases were under the pressure of the atmosphere ; the sparks 
passed between brass balls. 

" In air," says Faraday, " the sparks have that intense light and 
bluish color which are so well known, and often have iaint or dark 
parts in their course, when the quantity of electricity passing is not 
great, 

" In nitrogen they are very beautiful, having the same general ap- 
pearance as in air, but have decidedly more color, of a bluish or purple 
character, and, as I thought, were remarkably sonorous. 

"In oxygen the sparks were whiter than in air or nitrogen, and I 
think not so brilliant. 

"In hydrogen they had a very fine crimson color" — "very little 
sound was produced in this gas." 

" In carhcnic acid gas the color was similar to that of the spark in 
air, but with a little green in it. The sparks were remarkably irregu- 
lar in form, more so than in common air. 

" In muriatic acid gas the spark was nearly white. It was always 
bright throughout, never presenting those dark spots which happen in 
air, nitrogen^ and other gases. 

"In coal gas the spark was sometimes green, sometimes red, and 
occasionally one part was green and another red ; black parts also 
occurred very suddenly in the line of the spark." 

Sparks may be obtained in media, which are far denser than air — 
as in oil of turpentine, olive oil, resin, glass, spermaceti, water, &c. 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 373 

§ 82. The electrical brush. — The most important facts which Fara- 
day has obtained in reference to the brush are the following,) Poff. 
Ann.,XLVII:) 

'' The brush and spark gradually pass into each other." (Faraday 
calls the electrical brush " a spark to air.") " Making a small ball 
positive by a good electrical machine with a large prime conductor, 
and approaching a large uninsulated discharging ball towards it, very 
beautiful variations from the spark to the brusli mav be obtained. 
The drawings of long and powerful sparks, given by Van Marura, 
(description of the large machine in Taylor's museum, Grerman trans- 
lation of 1786, Tab._ III, fig. 1 ;) Harris, (Phila. Trans., 1834, p. 243,) 
and others, also indicate the same phenomena," namely, a ramification 
of the spark by which its transition to the brush is made. — (Fara- 
day's Researches, § 1448.) 

"If an insulated conductor, connected with the positive conductor of 
an electrical machine, have a metal rod 0.3 of an inch in diameter 
projecting from it outwards from the machine and terminating by a 
rounded end or a small ball, it will generally give good brushes ; or 
if the machine be not in good action, then many ways of assisting 
the formation of the brush can be resorted to ; thus, the hand or any 
large conducting surface may be approached towards the termination ;" 
" or the termination may be smaller and of badly conducting matter, 
as wood ; or sparks may be taken between the prime conductor and 
the secondary conductor, to which the termination giving brushes 
belongs;" ''or the air around the termination may be rarefied." — 
(1425.) 

That the brush is not a continuous discharge is evinced in the 
gradual transition of the spark to the brush. By proper proportion, 
in the size of the small knob to the power of the machine, brushes are 
obtained which show immediately that they consist of ramified sparks 
rapidly following each other ; the machine being worked more rapidly, 
or with the same working of the machine substituting a still smaller 
discharging knob, the brush assumes a more uniform appearance, 
which Faraday very well describes in the following words : "A short 
conical bright part or root appeared at the middle part of the ball, 
projecting directly from it, which, at a little distance from the ball^ 
broke out suddenly into a wide brush of pale ramifications, having a 
quivering motion, and being accompanied at the same time with a 
low, dull, chattering sound." — (1426.) 

At first such a brush seems continuous, but Wheatstone has shown 
that it consists of successive intermitting discharges, (Philos. Trans., 
1834, p. 586,) which was to be expected from the gradual transition 
of the spark to the brush. Faraday gives a very simple method for 
decomposing the apparently continuous brush into its elementary 
parts without the help of Wheatstone's rotating mirror ; he says : "If 
the eye be passed rapidly, not by a motion of the head, but of the 
eyeball itself, across the direction of the brush, by first looking stead- 
fastly about 10° or 15° above, and then instantly as much below it, 
the general brush will be resolved into a number of individual 
brushes." — (1427.) This method of analyzing has not succeeded 
perfectly in my trials. 



374 KECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

"■ On using a smaller ball, the general brush, was smaller, and the 
sound, though weaker, more continuous. On resolving the brush into 
its elementary parts as before these were found to occur at much 
shorter intervals. 

" Employing a wire with a round end, the brush was still smaller., 
but, as before, separable into successive discharges. The sound, though 
feebler, was higher in pitch, being a distinct musical note." 

The sound is in fact due to the recurrence of the noise of each 
separate discharge, and these happening at intervals nearly equal, 
under ordinary circumstances, cause a definite note to be head, whose E 
pitch rises with the increased rapidity and regularity of the discharge. 

" By using wires with finer terminations, smaller brushes were 
obtained, until they could hardly be distinguished as brushes. But 
as long as sound was heard the discharge could be ascertained by the 
eye to be intermitting ; and when the sound ceased the light became 
continuous as a glow." 

To those not accustomed to use the eye in the above-described man- 
ner, Wheatstone's apparatus with the revolving mirror is recom- 
mended. Another excellent process for analyzing the brush is to 
produce it on the end of a rod, held in the hand opposite to the prime 
conductor, and then move the rod rapidly from side to side, whilst the 
eye remains still.— (1428— 1423.) 

§ 83. The brush in various gases. — The experiments on the brush in 
various gases Faraday made with brass rods, about one quarter of ati 
inch tliick, and whose rounded ends were placed opposite each other 
in a glass globe of seven inches diameter, containing the gas. One 
of these rods was connected with the prime conductor, the other with 
the ground. — (Pog. Ann., XL VII, 553.) 

" Air. Fine positive brushes are easily obtained in air, at common 
pressures, possessing the well known purplish light. When the air 
is rarefied the ramifications are very long, filling the globe; the light 
is greatly increased and is of a beautiful purple color, with an occa- 
sional rose tint in it. 

" Oxygen. At common pressures the brush is very close and com- 
pressed, and of a dull whitish color. In rarefied oxygen the form and 
appearance are better ; the color somewhat purplish, but all the char- 
acters very poor compared to those in air." 

. "Nitrogen gives brushes with great facility at the positive surface, far 
beyond any other gas." " They are almost always fine in form, light, 
and color, and in rarefied nitrogen are mao-nificent. They surpass 
the discharges in any other gas as to the quantity of light evolved." 

" Hydrogen, at common pressures, gives a better brush than oxygen, 
but does not equal nitrogen ; the color was greenish gray. In rare- 
fied hydrogen the ramifications were very fine in form and distinctness, 
but pale in color, with a soft and velvety appearance, and not at all 
equal to those in nitrogen. In the rarest state of the gas the color 
was a pale gray green." 

"Coal gas. The brushes were rather difficult to produce." "They 
were short and strong, generally of a greenish color." "In rare 
coal gas the brush forms were better, but the light very poor and the 
color gray." 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 375 

'■' Carbonic acid produces a very poor brush at common pressures." 
*' In rarefied carbonic acid the brush is better in form, but weak as to 
light, being of a dull greenish or purplish hue." 

" 3Iuriatic acid gas. It is very difficult to obtain the brush in this 
gas at common pressures. On gradually increasing the distance of 
the rounded ends the sparks suddenly ceased ^^hen the interval was 
about an inch, and the discharge, which was still through the gas in 
the globe, was silent and dark. Occasionally, a very short brush could, 
for a few moments, be obtained, but it quickly disappeared. Even 
when the intermitting spark current from the machine was used a 
brush wa-s obtained with difficulty, and that very short ;" "in the 
mean time, magnificent brushes were passing off from different parts of 
the machine into the surrounding air. On rarefying the gas the forma- 
tion of the brush was facilitated, but it was yet of a low, squat form, 
very poor in light, and very similar on both the positive and negative 
surfaces." "On rarefying the gas still more a few large ramifica- 
tions were obtained, of a pale bluish color, utterly unlike those in 
nitrogen. ' '-—(1456—1462.) 

§84. Brush in denser media. — Electrical brushes are produced, not 
only in air and gases, but in far denser media. Faraday procured it 
in oil of turpentine, (1452,) " from the end of a wire going through a 
glass tube into the fluid, contained in a metal vessel. The brush was 
small, and yqxj difficult to obtain; the ramifications were simple, 
and stretched out from each other, diverging very much. The light 
was exceedingly feeble, a perfectly dark room being required for its 
observation. When a few solid particles, as of dust or silk, were in 
the liquid, the brush was produced with much greater facility." 

§ 85. Difference of the positive and negative brush discharge. — On this 
subject I extract the following remarks by Faraday : 

" When the brush discharge is observed in air, at the positive and 
negative surfaces, there is a very remarkable difference. ' The differ- 
ence in question used to be expressed in former times by saying that 
" a point charged positively gave brushes into the air, whilst the same 
point charged negatively gave a star." This is true only of bad con- 
ductors, or of metallic conductors charged intermittingly. If metallic 
points project freely into the air the positive and negative light upon 
them differ very little in appearance." 

These phenomena vary exceedingly under different circumstances, 
as Faraday shows : 

" If a metallic wire, with a rounded termination in free air, be used 
to produce the brushy discharge, then the brushes obtained when the 
wire is charged negatively are very pour and small by comparison with 
those produced when the charge is positive. Or if a large metal ball, 
connected with the electrical machine, be charged positively, and a 
fine uninsulated point be gradually brought towards it, a star appears 
on the point when at a considerable distance, which, though it becomes 
brighter, does not change its form of a star until it is close up to the 
ball ; whereas, if the ball be charged negatively, the point, at a con- 
siderable distance, has a star on it as before ; but when brought nearer, 



376 RECENT PROGKESS IN PHYSICS, 

a brush formed on it, extending to the negative ball ; and when 
still nearer, the brush ceased and bright sparks passed." 

As we have already seen, § 80, the spark discharge passes into the 
brush at far less distances if the surface on which the discharge begins 
(the small ball or the rounded end of a rod) is negative, than if it is 
positive ; but on going further into the succession of charges we find 
that the positive brush passes into glow long before the negative. 

" A metal rod 0.3 of an inch in diameter, with a rounded end pro- 
brush. It was ascertained, both by sight and sound, that the succesisve 
jecting into the air, was charged negatively and gave a short noisy 
discharges were very rapid in their recurrence, six or seven times more 
numerous than when the rod was charged positively to an equal 
degree." 

' ' When the rod was positive it was easy, by working the machine 
a little quicker, to replace the brush by a glow, but when it was nega- 
tive no efforts could produce this change." — (1468.) 

"A point opposite the negative brush exhibited a star, and, as it was 
approximated, caused the size and sound of the brush to diminish, and 
at last to cease, leaving the negative end silent and dark, yet effective 
as to discharge." — (1469.) 

" When the round end of a smaller wire was advanced towards the 
negative brush, it (becoming positive by induction) exhibited the quiet 
glow at eight inches distance, the negative brush continuing. When 
nearer, the pitch of the sound of the negative brush rose, indicating 
quicker intermittances ; still nearer the positive end threw off ramifi- 
cation and distinct brushes, at the same time the negative brush con- 
tracted in its lateral direction and collected together, giving a peculiar, 
narrow, longish brush, in shape like a hair pencil ; the two brushes 
existing at once, but were very different in their form and appearance, 
and especially in the more rapid recurrence of the negative discharges 
than of the positive. On using a smaller positive- wire for the same 
experiment the glow first appeared in it and then the brush, and 
the two at one distance became exceedingly alike in appearance." 
(1470.) 

"In air the superiority of the positive brush is well known. In 
nit7'ogen it is as great or even greater than in air. In hydrogen the 
positive brush loses a part of its superiority, not being so good as in 
nitrogen or air, whilst the negative brush does not seem injured. 
In oxygen the positive brush is compressed and poor, whilst the nega- 
tive did not become less ; the two were so alike that the eye frequently 
could not tell one from the other. In coal gas the brushes are 
difficult of production ;" " and the positive not much superior to the 
negative, either at common or low pressure. In carbonic acid this 
approximation of character also occurred. In muriatic acid gas the 
positive brush was very little better than the negative." — (1476.) 

§ 86. Glow discharge. — The glow " seems to depend upon a quick 
and almost continuous charging of the air close to and in contact with 
the conductor." — (Faraday's Researches, 1526.) Faraday was never 
able to separate it into visible intermitting elementary discharges. 
The glow is produced by — 

1st. Diminution of the charging surface. — At the end of a metal rod 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 377 

w.ith a blunt conical point, a phosphorescent continuous glow is ob- 
tained the more readily as the point is finer. 

2d. Increase of power in the machine. — Rounded ends, which give 
only brushes when the machine is in weak action, give the glow readily 
when the machine is in good order. 

3d. Puirefaction of the air. — A brass ball 2| inches in diameter 
being made positively inductive in an air-pump receiver, became 
covered with glow in part, " when the pressure was reduced to 4.4 
inches. By a little adjustment the ball could be covered all over with 
this light. Using a brass ball 1.25 inch in diameter, and making 
it inducteously positive by an inducti/e negative point, the phenomena 
were exceedingly beautiful. The glow came over the positive ball, 
and gradually increased in brightness until it was at least very lu- 
minous ; and it also stood up, like a low iiame, half an inch or more 
in height."— (1529.) 

The negative gloio is difficult to obtain in air at common pressures ; 
" and it is as yet questionable whetber, even on fine points, what is 
called the negative star is not a very reduced, but still intermitting 
brush, or a glow." — (15i^0.) 

In rarefied air the negative glow can easily be obtained. If the 
rounded ends of two metal rods about 0.2 of an inch in diameter 
are about four inches apart in rarefied air, the glow can be easily ob- 
tained on both rods, covering not only the ends but an inch or two of 
the part behind. Balls are also covered with the negative glow in 
rarefied air, whether their surface is inductive or inducteous. — (1531.) 

The glow occurs in all the gases examined for it by Faraday. He 
thought he obtained it also in oil of turpentine, though it was very 
dull and small.— (1534.) 

"The glowis always accompanied by a wind,proceedingeither directly 
out from the glowing part or directly towards it ; the former being the 
most general case." If the arrangements are made so that the ready 
and regular access of air to a part exhibiting the glow be interfered 
with or prevented the glow then disappears. — (1535.) 

Frequently it is possible to change the brush given by the end of 
a rod into a glow, by simply aiding the formation of a current of air 
at its extremity. — (1535.) 

§ 87. Dark discharge. — If to the rounded end of a metallic rod pro- 
jecting from the prime conductor of a machine a similar rod be held 
at a little distance, it is easy to obtain the appearance of light at the 
ends of both rods, while the intervening space between the positive 
and negative light remains dark ; besides this familiar phenomenon, 
Faraday notices a very remarkable case of dark discharge. 

'' Two brass rods, 0.3 of an inch in diameter, entering a glass globe 
on opposite sides, had their ends brought into contact, and the air 
about them very much rarefied. A discharge of electricity from the 
machine was then made through them, and while that continued the 
ends were separated from each other. At the moment of separation 
a continuous glow came over the end of the negative rod, the positive 
termination remaining quite dark. As the distance was increased a 
purple stream or haze appeared on the end of the positive rod, and 
proceeded directly onward towards the negative rod, elongating as the 



d75 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

interval was enlarged, but never joining the negative glow, there being 
always a short dark space between. This space, of about one-sixteenth or 
one-twentieth of an inch was apparently invariable in its extent aind 
its position relative to the negative rod ; nor did the negative glow vary. 
Whetlier the negative ends were inductive or inducteous the same effect 
was produced." 

Similar phenomena were obtained with balls instead of the rounded 
ends of rods. 

§ 88. Conveciive discliarge. — The dielectric being penetrated by the 
spark, the brush, and also by the glow, Faraday calls this form of i 
discharge the disruptive discharge. With the brush, and still more 
with the glow, another form of discharge appears, making itself mani- 
fest by the so-called electrical wind. This is owing to the ])article8 of i\ 
the dielectric, in close contact with the charged conductor, (on the end ' 
of the electrified rod,) receiving an electrical charge, in consequence of 
which they are repelled ; and by a repetition of this action the conduc- 
tor is discharged. 

" Why a point should be so exceedingly favorable to the production 
of currents is evident. It is at the extremity of the point that the 
intensity necessary to charge the air is first acquired ; it is from thence 
that the charged particle recedes ; and the mechanical force which it im- 
presses on the air to form a current is in every way favored by the shapes 
and position of the rod whose point forms the termination." — (1573.) 

Particles of dust floating in the air favor the escape of electricity. 

" On using oil of turpentine as the dielectric^ the action and course 
of small conducting, carrying particles in it, can be well observed." 

" A very striking effect was produced on oil of turpentine, which, 
whether it was due to the carrying power of the particles in it, or to 
any other action of them, is, perhaps, as yet doubtful. A portion of 
that fluid in a glass vessel had a large uninsulated silver dish at the 
bottom, and an electrified metal rod, with a round termination, dip- 
ping into it at the top. The insulation was very good. The rod end, 
with a drop of gum water attached to it, was then electrified in the 
fluid ; the gum water soon spun off in fine threads, and was quickly 
dissipated through the oil of turpentine. By the time that four drops 
had in this manner been commingled with a pint of the dielectric, the 
latter had lost by far the greatest portion of its insulating power ;" 
" the fluid was slightly turbid. Upon being filtered through paper 
only, it resumed its first clearness, and now insulated as well as be- 
fore."— (1571.) 

"Conducting fluid terminations, instead of rigid points, illustrate in 
a very beautiful manner the formation of the currents, with their 
effects and influence in exalting the conditions under which they were 
commenced. Let the rounded end of a brass rod, 0.3 of an inch, or 
thereabouts, in diameter, point downwards in free air ; let it be amal- 
gamated and have a drop of mercury suspended from it, and then let 
it be powerfully electrized, the mercury will present the [)henomenon 
of gloio ; a current of air will rush along the rod and set off from the 
mercury directly downwards, and the form of the metallic drop will be 
slightly affected, the convexity at a small part near the middle and 
lower part becoming greater, whilst it diminishes all round at plac-^'-' 
a little removed from this spot." — (1581.) 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



379 




"Take next ad ro]i of strong solution of miiriateoflime; being 
electrified, a part will probably be dissipated, but a con- 
siderable portion, if the electricity be not too powerful, will 
remain, forming a conical drop, (fig. 74,) accompanied by 
a strong wind. If glow be produced the drop will be smooth 
on the surface. If a short low brush is formed a minute 
tremulous motion of the liquid will be visible." 

" With a drop of water the effects were of the same kind, and 
were best obtained when a portion of gum water or syrup hung 
from a ball, (fig. 75.) When the machine was worked slowly a fine, 
large, quite conical drop, with concave lateral outline and a Fig. 75. 
small rounded end, was produced, on which the glow appeared, 
whilst a steady wind issued from the point of the cone of 
sufficient force to depress the surface of uninsulated water 
lield opposite to the termination. When the machine v/as 
worked more rapidly some of the water was driven off, the 
smaller pointed portion left was roughisli on the surface, 
and the sound of successive brush discharges was heard, 
Witb still more electricity, more water was dispersed ; that which re- 
mained was alternately elongated and contracted,'"' and "a stronger 
brush discharge was heard. Whea water from beneath was brought 
towards the drop, it did not indicate the same regular, strong, contracted 
current of air as before; and when the distance was such that sparks 
passed the water beneath was attracted rather than driven away, and 
the current of air ceased." — (1584.) 

" That the drop, when of water, or a better conductor than water, 
is formed into a cone principally by the current of air, is shown, 
amongst other ways, thus : A sharp point being held opposite the coni- 
cal drop, the latter soon lost its pointed form, was retracted and be- 
came round ; the current of air from it ceased, and was replaced by 
one from the point beneath, which, if the latter was held near enough 
to the drop actually blew it aside and rendered it concave in form." 
With still worse conductors, as oil, or oil of turpentine, the fluid was 
"spun out into threads and carried off, not only because the air rushing 
over its surface helped to sweep it away, but also because its insulating 
particles assumed the same changed state as the particles of air, and, 
not being able to discharge to them in a much greater degree than 
the air particles themselves could do, were carried oft" by the same causes 
which urged these in their course. A similar effect with melted sealing- 
wax on a metal point forms an old and well known experiment." — (1588.) 

"A drop of gum water in the exhausted receiver of the air pump 
was not sensibly affected in its form when electrified/' which was 
partly owing to the diminished current of air, and partly, perhaps, that 
the tension of the electricity on the ball is not so great in rarefied as 
in dense air. 

" That I many not be misunderstood," says Faraday, " I must ob- 
serve here that I do not consider the cones produced as the result only 
of the current of air or other insulating dielectrics over their surface. 
When the drop is of badly conducting matter a part of the effect is 
due to the electrified state of the particles," &c. — (1594.) 



380 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



" When tlie phenomena of currents are observed in dense insulating 
dielectrics they present us with extraordinary degrees of mechanical 
force. Thus, if a pint of well rectified and filtered oil of turpentine | 
be put into a glass vessel and two wires be dipped into it in different 
places, one leading to the electrical machine and the other to the dis- 
charging train, on working the machine, the fluid will be thrown into ■ 
violent motion, whilst, at the same time, it will rise 2, 3, or 4 inches up » 
the machine wire, and dart off in jets from it into the air." — (1595.) 

'' A drop of mercury being suspended from an amalgamated brass i 
ball preserved its form almost unchanged in air, but when immersed . 
in the oil of turpentine it became very pointed and even particles of i" 
the metal could be spun out and carried off. The form of the liquid 
metal was just like that of syrup in air." — (1597.) 

"If the mercury at tlie bottom of the fluid be connected with the 
electrical machine, whilst a rod is held in the iiand terminating, in a 
ball three quarters of an inch in diameter, and the ball be dipped into 
the electrified fluid, very striking appearances ensue. When the ball 
is raised again so as to be at a level nearly out of the fluid, large por- 
tions of the latter will seem to cling to it, (fig. 76.) If it be raised 



Fig. 76. 



Fig. 77. 




higher a column of the oil of turpentine will still connect it with 
that in the basin below, (fig. 77.) If the machine be excited into 
* more powerful action this will become more bulky, and may then also 
be raised higher, assuming ths form, (fig. 78.) 

'' A very remarkable effect is produced on these phenomena, con- 
nected with positive and negative charge and discharge, namely, that 
a ball charged positively raises a much higher and larger column 
of the oil of turpentine than when charged negatively." — (Faraday 
Eesearches, series XIII, 1600.) 

§ 89. Laws of the brightness of the electrical spark. — Masson pub- 
lished in the 14th volume of the Armeies de Chimie et de Physique^ 
page 129, (1845, 3d part,) his researches upon the brightness of the 
electrical spark, under the title : " Etudes de Photometric Electrique." 

The ordinary photometre can be used only for permanent and not for 
momentary sources of light ; for measuring the brightness of the elec- 
trical spark, which gives only a momentary illumination, Masson was 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



381 




;Obliged to contrive a new photometric principle. In fact he solved 
■the problem in a very ingenious manner. 

If a disk be divided into sectors equally large ^'"- "^• 

and alternately black and white, as in fig;. 79, 
;5ind be put into rapid rotation, the different 
sectors cannot be distinguished when the disk 
is illuminated by a constant source of light ; 
but if it be illuminated by an electrical spark 
for an instant the sectors of the rotating disk 
iwill become visible again, and as much more 
,so as the electrical spark is brighter. But if 
|the illumination by the electrical spark be 
gradually weakened, while that from the con- 
stant source of light remain the same, a point will be attained where 
the sectors just cease to be distinguishable, and in this case the power 
of the illumination by the electrical spark is a determinate fraction 
of the illumination by the constant source, its magnitude depending 
lupon the peculiarity of the observer's eye. 

J We will now consider in what manner this limit of the ability to 
! distinguish may be ascertained. 

A part of a sector on a white disk, (fig. 
[80,) being blackened, and the disk turned 
rapidly about its centre, the black piece will 
form a ring somewhat darker than the white 
ground of the disk. The ring will appear as 
much fainter as the black spot is narrower, 
, and if the experiment be made with a series 
of such disks, each successive one having a 
narrower black end-portion of a sector m n, 
I we will at last fin«! one in which the dark 
ring ceases to be distinguishable. 

Xet us suppose this to be the case when 
I the breadth of the sector is y^-q of ^be entire 

.circumference; it is evident that the brightness of the ring is less 
than the brightness of the disk by jl--^ ; in this case the eye cannot 
j distinguish a difi'erence of yio- ^^ illumination. 

Masson made his experiments with disks upon which the breadth of 
the sectors were ^oj irV, yVj toj ^\, tj-q, rfoj tIo, of the whole cir- 
cumference, and by means of them he found that for weak eyes a 
difference of illumination of Jy- to J-^ was the limit of perceptibility. 




For ordinary eyes this limit was y-V to 



for very good eyes -yoo 



to rfo- 

On varying tlie intensity of the illumination Masson found that 
the sensibility for the same individual did not change if the illumi- 
nation was sufficient for reading ordinary print. 

The rotating plate being illuminated with colored light, Masson 
found that the limit of perceptibility of difference of illumination is 
independent of the color. 



382 



EECEXT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



Fig. 81. 



We now pass to the particular object of Masson's investigation. 
The arrangement of his experiments was essentially as follows : A 

rotating disk, a b, fig. 81, (the rota- 
tion being produced by clock-work,) 
divided into white and black sectors, 
as in fig. 79, was illuminated in the 
direction of ^ (7 by the constant light 
of a lamp L, which was movable in the 
line of this direction. This lamp was 
placed in a black case so that it could 
throw its light on the rotating disk 
only through a tube. In the direc- 
tion of the line B C a, movable spark 
micrometre F was placed. One of the 
knobs of this micrometer was in con- 
ducting connexion wi:h the upper 
coating of a horizontal glass plate, the 
other knob with the lower coating; 
the spark always passed between the 
two knobs as soon as the charge of the plate had reached a certain 
limit, which depended upon the distance of the knobs from each other. 
Masson first satisfied himself that, for the instantaneous light of the 
electrical spark, the intensity of the illumination was also, as in other 
cases, in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance. 

The lamp L being at a given distance from the disk a h, the spark 
micrometer was gradually removed from the disk, until at the passage 
of the spark the sectors of the rotating disk were no longer distin- 
guishable, and the distance of the spark from the disk was determined. 
The lamp was then moved, and the same experiment repeated, the 
distance between the knobs of the spark micrometer remaining un- 
changed. The following table gives the results of such an experi- 
mental series ; Z denotes the distance of the lamp, Y the correspond- 
ing distance of the spark micrometer from the middle of the disk ab: 




z. 


Y. 


z 

Y. 


tnm. 


mm. 




540 


407 


1.32 


640 


489 


1.30 


740 


569 


1.30 


840 


648 


1.29 


940 


737 


1.2S 


1040 


826 


1.25 


Mean. ..... 


1.29 









Since Z and Y increase in an equal (or very nearly equal) ratio, it 
is evident that, with increasing distances, the illumination for both 
sources of light decreases according to the same law; hence the illu- 
mination by an electrical spark is likewise inversely proportional to 
tiie square of the distance. 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



383 



The same result was given by several other series of experiments, 
which Masson has arranged in tables. It will be sufficient to present 
here only one of the many series, serving to establish each of the laws 
determined. 

\ The values of Y, as given in the tables, are always the mean of two 
jexperiraents. After the distance Y of the spark micrometer from the 
irotating disk at which the sectors could be no longer distinguished 
had been once determined the miciometer was brought considerably 
inearer the disk again, and then removed the second time, until the 
jsector disappeared. The two values of Y, thus determined, differed in 
the various series at most by one centimetre, a proof of the exactness 
attainable by this method of observation. 

§ 90. Variation of the brightness of the spark at different strildng 
distances.— On this point Masson made numerous experiments. The 
folio win <x table contains the results of one of them : 





X . 




Y. 


Y 
X 




mm. 




mm. 






2.5 




318 


127 




3.5 




447 


127 




4.5 




572 


127 




5.5 




697 


126 




6.5 




830 


127 




7.5 


M 


957 
can 


127 




127 



Here X denotes the striking distance, Y the corresponding distance 
of the spark from the rotating disk, at which the sectors cannot be 
distinguished, under the condition that the constant illumination of 
the rotating disk from AC remained unchanged during the whole 
series of experiments. 

It is evident, from the above table, that the striking distance and 
the corresponding distance of the spark from the rotating disk must 
vary in a constant ratio, the illumination of the disk remaining the 
same. Or, for double and treble striking distances, he spark must 
be removed two and three times as far from the disk, if its illumina- 
tion by the spark is to remain the same. 

By doubling the distance, the intensity of the illumination becomes 
four times feebler, but it remains unchanged if the striking distance 
is doubled, consequently the brilliancy of the spark mus the four times 
greater at double the striking distance. For the distance n the illu- 
mination by the electrical spark is n- times feebler, but it remains 
unchanged if the striking distance is made n times greater ; hence, 
for a striking distance n the brilliancy of the spark must be n'^ times 
greater, or in other words, the hi^ightness of the electrical spark increases 
as the square of the striking distance. 

§ 91. Influence of the size and form of the surface of the condenser. — 
The form of the condenser (that is, the glass plate with metallic coat- 
ing on both sides, the dif^charge of which passes through the spark 



384 



RECENT PEOGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



micrometer) has no influence upon the brightness of the electrical 
spark if the extent of the coating remain the same. The size of the 
plate, however, has considerable influence. 

With unchanged distance of the constant light and of the striking 
distance, and with the same thickness of glass, the surface of the 
coating was varied, and each time the corresponding distance of the 
spark from the rotating disk, at which the sectors just ceased to be 
perceived, was observed. The results of such a series of observations 
are given in the following table : 



Surface in square 
millimetres. 


Ratio. 


Y. 


Y-\ 


Rati'o . 


22500 




mm. 
314 
420 
514 


98596 
176400 
264196 




40000 
60000 


1.77 
2.66 




1.78 
2.67 



The first vertical column contains the size of the surface of the coat- 
ing, the second is the ratio of the first and second surfaces, and then 
of the first and third. The third column gives the corresponding Y, 
the fourth the square of this distance^, and the last the ratio of the 
numbers of the first Y^ to the second, and of the first to the third. 

Comparing the second and fifth columns we have very plainly 






(1) 



that is, the superficial content F of the coating of the condenser is in 
jiroportion to the square of the distance Y, the illumination of the 
disk ab by the electrical spark remaining constant. 
But the constant illumination of the disk is 

J = c Y2 

J denoting the intensity of the light of the spark, and c a constant 
factor, or 



ys 



c. 



(2) 



Combining equations (1) and (2) we get 



J = -- F ; 

n 

or, the hriglitness of the electrical spark is proportional to the surface of 
the coating. 

§ 92. lielation hetiveen the intensity of the electrical sparh and the 
thickness of the condenser. — The surface of the coating remaining the 
same, the thickness of the glass plate was changed ; and for each plate 
the distance Y was observed at which the sectors just ceased to be 
visible, the illumination by the lamp remaining constant. The fol- 
lowing table contains a few of the results obtained. 



KECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



3S5 



No. 


Thickness of 


Square root of 


Y. 




plate d. 


thickness Vd. 






mm. 




■mm. 


1 


1.31 


l.U 


1044 


2 


1.83 


1.35 


904 


3 


2.51 


1.57 


775 



Now, If I = 1.18 and VVi* = l-l^, that is, the two quotients are 

nearly equal, or -=- = ~- ; moreover, 1^1= 1.27 and ^-AM = 1.35, 

vd' Y" , . o , 

or very nearly —=—= :^, ; and, finally, i|| = 1.16, and M| =: 

V^'" Y" 
1.17, or — =- =: — , therefore the values of Y are nearly In the in- 

Va' Y'" 

verse ratio of the square roots of the corresponding thiol', nesses of the 
glass ; that is 

Vd = Y 



or 



but we have J =2 c Y"^, hence 



d~^ 



d X J = c. p, 



or 



J = 



_ cjo- 



d 



that is, tJie intensity of the spark is inversely proportional to the thick- 
ness of the condenser. 

The rediaining experiments which Masson made on this point did 
not coincide generally so well with the above deductions. This he 
ascribes to the circumstance that he could not measure the thickness 
of the glass with sufficient accuracy, and that the different condensers 
may have had unequal "capacities for condensation." 

§ 93. Injiuence of the nature of the pole on the electrical sparh. — Mas- 
son found that the spark is somewhat more intense, if, under circum- 
stances otherwise the same, it be passed between lead, zinc, and tin 
balls, than when the balls (equal, in size) are of copper, brass, or iron. 
Masson thinks that this depends upon the unequal tenacity of the 
metals. In all his experiments there were traces of a transportation 
of the metal from one pole to the other ; now since lead, for example, 
is less tenacious than copper, more lead will be carried off than copper 
with the same tension of the electricity ; the conducting circuit then 
will have its capacity for conduction suddenly increased, and the light 
must become more brilliant in consequence. 
25 s 



386 RECENT PROGEESS IN PHYSICS. 

This opinion is sustained by the fact that the intensity of the spark 
is very considerably increased if polished brass balls be exchanged for 
such as have their surface amalgamated, where evidently the trans- 
ference is greatly facilitated. 

The spark, with the carbon used for Bunsen's battery, is very white 
in the middle, reddish at the edges, and looks a little like a flame. 

§ 94. Nature of electrical light. — There are two hypotheses as to the 
nature of the electrical spark ; the first regards it as a motion which 
is communicated to the ether by the electrical spark ; according to the 
second hypothesis, electrical light is produced by incandescent pon- 
derable matter transported by the electricity. 

Masson inclines to the first hypothesis, with which also his experi- 
ments coincide, since the intensity of the spark depends in no respect 
upon the fusibility or oxidibility of the balls, but upon their tenacity. 
If, in consequence of the lower tenacity of the metals, more particles 
are carried off, the facility of the circuit for conduction is increased ; 
hence the same quantity of electricity is discharged in a shorter time, 
whereby a more brilliant light is produced. All of the laws of the 
brightness of electrical light just mentioned are comprised by the 
following formula : 

J=:Hf4 (1) 

in which 

J denotes the intensity of the spark ; 

X the striking distance ; 

s the surface of the condenser ; 

Y the distance of the spark from the rotating disk of the photometer ; 

e the thickness of the condenser, and H a constant factor depending 

upon elements which are not yet determined. 

q 

Substituting in equation (1), X=^-^, which is allowable, smce 

s 

Kiess has shown that the striking distance is proportional to the elec- 
trical density (§ 31), we have 

J=.%.4^ (2) 



Y 



6' 



H»2 
by making = w, that is, equal to a constant factor which is ad- 
missible so long as the thickness e of the condenser does not vary. 

q 2 
Hence the intensity of the electrical light is proportional to -V- the 

square of the electrical density, or which is the same, to the tension 
of the electricity and the surface s of the condenser. 
Equation (1) may also be written 

J=Y^X5X 

Substituting for the last X its value ^— , we get 

J=I^Xg. ' (3) 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 387 

or in words, tlie intensity of the spark is proportional to the striking 
distance and quantity of electricity. 
According to equation (2), 

J = P-li. 

s 

But Riess has shown that, 

w = Qii, 

s 

is the quantity of heat which is set free in the wire by discharging 
through it a quantity of electricity q, collected od the surface s. 

Hence if the discharge stroke of an electrical bati.ery produces a spark 
at any interruption of the circuity the intensity of the light is propor- 
tional to the heat tvhich the same discharge produces in a piece of wire 
forming part of the circuit. 

At the conclusion of his memoir, Masson proposes the spark gen- 
erated under determinate conditions as the photometric unit, by 
which it will be possible to compare the intensity of the most diverse 
constant sources of light with a common standard. 



SECTION FIFTH. 
ELECTRICAL ODOR. 



§ 95. Ozone and its reactions. — When we are in the neighborhood of 
a powerful electrical machine we perceive, when the electricity issues 
from points, or when a series of sparks are passed from the conductor, 
a very peculiar odor, which, for sake of brevity, we will term electrical 
odor, or osone odor. This electrical odor is very probably that which 
is observed after a stroke of lightning ; and which, by those who do 
not know how to characterize it properly, is termed a sulphurous smell. 
Schonbein observed in the vicinity of a place where lightning had 
struck a decided odor of ozone, even some time after the stroke. 

Until recently we were quite in the dark as to the nature of this 
odor. Some physicists supposed that it was owing to a peculiar affec- 
tion of the organs of smell, produced by electricity ; an explanation 
which, in addition to its error, did great injury, by preventing further 
investigation and discusf3ion. 

Others advanced the hypothesis that electrical odor was owing to 
fine metallic particles carried off by the escaping electricity. But this 
view also is entirely inadmissible, because the nature of the emitting 
points does not in the least change the nature of the odor. 



388 EECENT PEOGEESS IN PHYSICS. 

SchonLein has the great credit of having restored this question to 
the current of scientific activity. He has shown that the electrical odor 
comes from a peculiar gas, produced during the electrical emission, 
which he calls ozone. He has investigated the properties of this sub- 
stance for years with the greatest zeal, and although, as yet, it has 
not been obtained in an isolated state, many of its important chemical 
and physical relations have been ascertained, and further researches 
on the subject promise most interesting discoveries in the field of 
chemistry. 

The first memoir of Schonbein on ozone is in the ^^ De.nkscliriften 
der Mundieuer Akademie." It is also printed in Poggepdorf's Anna- 
Itn. Bd. L. p. 616. 

A small pamphlet with the title, " On the pi^oduction of ozone in the 
chemical ivay," evidently by Schonbein, was published in 1844 by 
Schonbein & Schweighaiiser, in Basel. 

The most important treatises on this subject which then followed 
are to be found in Poggendorfs Annalen, by reference to the index of 
names, appended to the LXXV volume. 

In these papers the historical course of Schonbein's discoveries may 
be followed out. I will omit this historical investigation on account 
of its great extent, and I will not refer to the contents of the separate 
paj)ers, but describe the most essential experiments which show the 
nature and most important relations of ozone, in the order in which 
Professor Schonbein had the goodness to show them to me in the year 
1849, and, passing over their earlier phases, present his views upon 
its nature as now held, after many years investigation. 

The prime conductor of an electrical machine being provided at the 

Fig. 82. end with a round-pointed wire, a, b, about 1 line in 

diameter, (fig. 82.) When the machine is turned the 

peculiar electrical odor will be perceived in the vicinity 

of the end a of the wire. 

That this odor is not to be ascribed to a mere subjec- 
tive affection of the organ rf smell, but is owing to a 
peculiar gas, is certain from the fact that this odorous 
principle produces a series of chemical and physical 
effects, having the greatest similarity to the chemical 
reactions and physical relations of other gases. Indeed, 
Schonbein has succeeded in preparing this odorous prin- 
ciple, ozone, in a purely chemical way, and in producing 
the same reactions with it which are observed when elec- 
tricity is issuing from points. 

If we hold before the point, at the distance of about ^ or 1 inch, a 
piece of paper covered with a paste of starch and iodide of potassium, 
the paste will at once turn blue. 

To make this preparation two teaspoons full of starch with a small 
crystal of iodide of potassium are to be boiled to a paste, with ten 
times their volume of water. 

The ozone acts upon this paste as chlorine does ; it decomposes the 
iodide of potassium, and the iodine set free, colors the starch blue. 





RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 38d 

This phenomenon (of turning the paste of iodide of potassium bine) 
takes place in the same manner whether the point emit positive or 
negative electricity ; it is also perfectly immaterial of what substance 
the point is made, if only an emission of electricity occurs, thus re- 
futing the view of those earlier physicists who maintained that the 
od5r was owing to metallic particles carried off by the issuing elec- 
tricity. 

On holding a platinum or gold plate before the point while the 
machine is turned, the plate has imparted to it negative galvanic po- 
larization, which can be demonstrated in the following manner : 

Connect the two mercury cups a and 6, Fig. 83, with the wire ends 
of a multiplier. Into the cu[) a dip a copper pj^ gg 

wire, to the other end of which a platinum 
plate p is fastened, the plate having been 
first soldered with gold to a platinum wire, 
and this to the copper wire at n. This pla- 
tinum plate hangs in a glass vessel contain- 
ing water slightly acidified. 

After having exposed a perfectly similar 
platinum plate for a time to the electricity 
issuing from a point, immerse it also in the 
water of the glass vessel, and as soon as the 
copper wire of the second plate is immersed 
into the cup of mercury 6, a considerable 
divergence of the galvanometer needle takes place, and in a direction 
which indicates that the platinum plate which had been exposed to 
ozone behaves negatively toward the other ; that is, the deflection is 
in the same direction which would have been indicated had a zinc wire 
been placed in a, a copper wire in 6, and these wires then immersed 
in the liquid of the glass vessel. This current, however, is only 
transient. 

The vdiole subject of galvanic polarization we will discuss in an- 
other place ;* it is only mentioned here as one of the effects which 
accompany the emission of electricity from points. 

All these reactions disappear when sulphuretted hydrogen, ammo- 
nia, olefiant gas, &c., are diffused in the air of the room where the 
experiment is made. 

If the emitting point be raised by the flame of a sph'it lamp to a 
red heat, and the machine put in operation immediately after the 
removal of the lamp, all the above described phenomena, which had 
accompanied the escape of electricity, disappear ; that is, the elec- 
trical cdor is no longer perceived, the iodine preparation does not turn 
blue, platinum or gold plates are not polarized. All the phenomena 
reappear, however, gradually, as the point cools. 

In order to make the experiment distinct, with reference to the odor, 
it must be made with wires of one of the precious metals, because the 
easily oxidable metals diffuse a peculiar smell simply by being heated. 
Very thin wires are not suitable for this experiment ; but as thick 

* See report for 1855, p. 377. 



390 RECENT PEOGEESS IN PHYSICS. 

ones may not always he at hand, it will do to use a thin platinum 
wire having its end fused into a small knob about one line in diameter. 

§ 96. Electrical odor in the electrolysis of ivater. — The electrical 
odor appears not only on the escape of electricity from points, but 
also in the electrolytic decomposition of water, where we find it ac- 
companied by the same reaction and effects which were considered''in 
the preceding paragraph. 

On closer investigation it appears that electrical odor manifests 
itself at the positive pole, where oxygen is given off; for on collecting 
the gases resulting from the decomposition of water separately, the 
odor in question was perceived only in that vessel which contained the 
oxygen, no trace of it being found in the one containing the hydrogen. 

The gases when obtained together have the electrical odor. 

On suspending a paper covered with the paste of iodide of potas- 
sium in oxygen, or in the mixed gases to which the ozone odor has 
been imparted by electrolysis, the paper turns blue. A platinum 
plate exposed for a time to the action of this, gas indicates the same 
electro-negative polarization as though it had been acted on by the 
electrical brush. 

Chemically pure oxygen gas produces none of these effects ; it has 
not the odor, does not turn the iodide paste blue, and is not in the 
condition to polarize a platinum plate negatively. 

The gas obtained by electrolytic decomposition produces, in all 
these cases, the same effects as the air which issues from a strongly 
electrified point. 

§ 97. Fi'oduction of ozone in tJie chemical ivay. — The so-called electri- 
cal odor can be produced by purely chemical means without any aid 
from electricity. A piece of phosphorus made perfectly dry by blotting 
paper, so that it has a clean surface, emits a peculiar alliaceous odor. 
Placing such a piece of phosphorus in a jar of air, the vapor of phos- 
phorus will in the cold soon diffuse itself through the whole jar. A 
platinum plate being then suspended in the jar a short time it will 
be polarized positively. 

The polarization of the platinum plate is to be ascribed to the phos- 
phoric vapor diffused in the jar, but the odor very probably is due to 
the phosphoric acid, which is formed by the partial oxidation of the 
phosphorus vapor. 

If a little water be now introduced into the jar, (as much as will 
half cover the piece of phosphorus,) the phosphoric odor becomes 
weaker and weaker, and at length wholly disappears, and in its place 
a decided ozone odor will be perceived. At rather high temperatures 
the ozone smell appears very soon. 

This odor is not to be distinguished from that produced in the 
electrical way, and it is accompanied by all the reactions and effects 
which characterize the agency of the electrical odor. A paper with the 
iodide paste on it becomes blue when suspended in the jar, and a 
platinum plate exposed to its action is polarized electro-negatively . 

With the ozone obtained in the chemical way the reactions can be 
])roduced almost exactly in the same form as with a point emitting 
electricity. For this purpose a bottle of the capacity of several quarts 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



391 



Fig. 84. 



is filled with air containing ozone, and closed witli a cork, (Fig. 84.) 

having two holes bored in it. Through one 

of the holes a tube passes nearly to the 
I bottom, having a funnel at its upper end ; 

through the other hole a tube passes, which 
, merely goes through the cork, and above 
; the cork is bent horizontally, ending in a 
. tolerably fine opening ; water being poured 
, through the funnel in a regulated stream, 

the air containing the ozone is driven out 

through the point of the other tube. This 

point now behaves exactly like a metallic 

point from which an electrical brush issues. 

By holding the nose to it the electrical odor 

will be observed ; the iodide paper held 

before it turns hlue^ and a platinum plate 

exposed to the jet is polarized electro-nega- 

iivehj. 

We have seen above that all the effects of 

ozone disappear when the point emitting the 

brush is heated, in like manner all the re- 
actions of ozone disappear as soon as the horizontal part of the escape 

tube is strongly heated by a s{)irit lamp. The air which escapes from 

the opening of the hot tube has no longer any smell, it will not turn 

the iodide paper blue, nor polarize the platinum plate. But all these 

effects reappear on the cooling of the tube. 

§ 98. Chemical naiure of ozone. — Schonbein, the discoverer of ozone, 
has observed and investigated for years, with unwearied industry, the 
relations of this remarkable substance, and has found that it bears the 
greatest resemblance to the hyper oxides ; he has finally come to 
the opinion that ozone is nothing else than a gaseous peroxide of 
hydrogen. *^ 

Ozone is therefore formed by a further oxidation of the vapor of 
Avater contained in the air. Thus it is explained why water, or rather 
the vapor of water, is absolutely necessary to the formation of ozone. 
In perfectly dry air ozone cannot be obtained by means of phosphorus. 

Electricity prepares the vapor of the atmosphere to oxidize further 




■-' At the present time, however, the view of nearly all of the chemists who have studied 
this subject is different from that given by the author. It is now generally conceded that 
ozone is nothing but oxygen, but there are two different vi»^ws in regard to its nature ; 
according to one, ozr.ne is simply oxygen thrown into a condition of activity by the instru- 
mentality of electricity or other agents above named. 

The other view considers ozone as formed of two or more equivalents of oxygen. If, as 
some hold, gaseous oxygen be o^, it could be easily shown that this double molecule under- 
going decomposition, (even by reducing agents as phosphorus, the e.ssential oils, &c.,) sets 
free Oj^, (oxygen in the nascent state.) which might unite with o^ to form 03, similar in 
properties to S o^, (sulphurous acid,) sulphur and oxygen being elements capable of re- 
placing each other to form analogous compounds as in the sulphurets and oxide.s. 

We deem it moreover quite possibL', in a measure, to reconcile the views of Schonbein 
with those last named, but this whole subject, being a purely chemical question, would be 
out of place in a report upon physical science, and has only been mentioned because the 
bare statement in the text might lead those not familiar with the matter into erroneous 
views. G. C. S. 



392 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

and form ozone; in like manner phosphorus effects the comhination of 
the vapor of water with oxygen, hut, as yet, we are not able to tell 
liow it is done. 

Ozone is decomposed into its components, oxygen and hydrogen, hy 
heat, as shown by the experiment noticed above. 

De la Eive and Berzelius, indeed, regarded ozone as modified 
oxygen, and maintained that it could be produced by an electrical jet 
in dry oxygen, but this is contrary to all Schonbein's analogies. 
Schonbein presented the following experiment as the most striking 
proof of the presence of hydrogen in ozone : if air containing ozone 
be dried as perfectly as possible and then heated, it yields water on 
cooling to hydroscopic bodies over which it is passed. The ozone is 
decomposed by heat, and the vapor of water which it contained is set 
free. 

Ozone is one of the most powerful means of producing oxidation 
which is known. Air containing ozone being passed for a long time 
over finely divided metallic silver, the latter is converted into peroxide 
of silver. The vapor of phosphorus is rapidly oxidized under the in- 
fluence of ozone, and converted into phosphorous acid .'ind phosphoric 
acid. 

The fact that the passage of the electrical spark through moist atmo- 
spheric air forms nitric acid was discovered by Cavendish, in the year 
1785. Schonbein has proved that under like circumstances ozone also 
is always formed. 

Since ozone can be produced in moist oxygen by the help of the elec- 
tric spark, it is evident that the formation of ozone is independent of 
that of nitric acid. On the contrary, Schonbein has made it appear 
highly probable that the formation of nitric acid is not a direct effect 
of electricity, but a secondary effect produced by the oxidizing 
influence of ozone on the nitrogen of the atmosphere. 

The formation of nitric acid by electricity may be shown in the 
simplest manner, by exposing, for a time, a paper moistened with a 
solution of carbonate of potash to a jet of electricity escaping from a 
wire ; the carbonate, under these circumstances, is converted in part 
into nitrate of potash. 

The ozone formed by means of phosphorus also produces nitric acid. 
The mixture of phosphorous and phosphoric acids, which furms in a 
receiver containing a piece of phosphorus, water, and atmospheric air, 
is absorbed by water. If this water be colored by a solution of indigo, 
the color of the latter is immediately destroyed, an effect which neither 
phosphorous nor phosphoric acid alone can produce. The decoloring 
is effected by a small quantity of nitric acid, which, formed under the 
influence of the ozone, is also dissolved in the water. 

That it is actually nitric acid which is here in question is proved by 
shaking the water with milk of lime ; insoluble salts of lime are 
formed with the phosphorous and phosphoric acids, while a nitrate of 
lime remains in solution. 

Davy observed that traces of nitric acid appeared at the positive pole 
of a pile when a voltaic current passed through water containing air or 
nitrogen. Here, also, the formation of nitric acid is a secondary effect 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 393 

of electricity. Ozone is first formed by the action of the current, and 
the ozone then oxidizes the nitrogen. 

' § 99. Illumination of phosphorus produced by ozone. — It is well known 
that at low tem[)eratures, slow combustion of phosphorus does not take 
place in air free from ozone, and tnere is therefore no illumination in 
the dark; this, however, appears as soon as ozone is brought into con- 
tact with the phosphorus. In a receiver containing ozonized air 
'phosphorus shines at a very low temperature. 

Schonbein has shown this very beautifully by presenting a stick of 
phosphorus, at a low temperature, to an electrical brush, which, in 
accordance with the above, determines the formation of ozone. The 
manner in which the experiment was made is as follows : (Pog. Ann., 
Ixviii, 38.) 

A piece of phosphorus an inch long, having a clear surface, was 
placed on a board in conducting connexion with the earth, and the 
freeend of a wire, connected with the conductorof an electrical machine, 
brought within a few lines of the pliosphorus. At a temperature of 
— 2° the phosphorus by itself did not shine in the dark; but when the 
machine was put in motion, so that an electrical brush played against 
the piece of phosphorus, a light flame at once issued from its whole 
length, and, like the tail of a comet, extended far beyond the piece of 
phosphorus. If the machine be stopped the illumination of the phos- 
phorus ceases in a few seconds. 

Schonbein obtained a very beautiful illumination by the following 
arrangement : A copper wire was coiled around a stick of phosphorus 
an inch long, so that the end of the wire extended about a line beyond 
the phosphorus, as shown in fig. 85. The ^'=' ^^' 

other end of the wire is connected with the 
conductor of an electrical machine. At a 
temperature below U° the phosphorus did 
not shine at all in the greatest darkness ; 
but in turning the electrical machine, so that a strong brush appeared 
at the end of ihe coil, a luminous cone protruded from the middle of 
the brush, which attained a length varying from a i'ew inches to some 
feet, according to circumstances. The longest cone obtained by Schon- 
bein was 2| feet. With powerful machines such cones should be 
obtained of still greater length. 

It may be assumed without hesitation that this luminous train is 
nothing else than the vapor of phosphorus in slow combustion. 

The luminous train vanishes with the electrical brush. 



GALVANISM. 

[Continued from page 423 of the Report ol 1855.] 

SECTION FOURTH. 

GALVANIC PHENOMENA OF LIGHT AND HEAT. 

§ 54. Production of heat hy the galvanic current — The laws of the; 
development of heat produced by the galvanic current in metallic^ 
wires, have been investigfated bv Joule, (Phil. Magazine, Oct., 1841,) 
and by Lenz, (P. A. LIX, pp. 203 & 407, LXI, p. 18.) 

The memoir of Joule not being within my reach, I shall only report i 
on the researches of Lenz, and this will be sufficient, since the results 
of the Russian and of the English physicist agreee. 

The first two sections of the memoir of Lenz, in vol. LIX of Pog. . 
Ann., contain only introductory matter, to which we shall but briefly v; 
refer. 

To measure the strength of the current Lenz made use of a Nerv- 
ander's tangent compass, which was most carefully constructed and 
tested. He found by accurate experiments that up to 40° the strengths 
of the currents are proportional to the tangents of the angles of de- 
flection. 

Lenz also compared his tangent compass with the decomposition of 
water. It results, from his numerous and accurate experiments, that i 
the tangent of the observed angle of deflection is to be multiplied by ' 
39.3 in order to obtain the reduced quantity of detonating gas from i 
the same current per minute, expressed in cubic-centimetres. Lenz '. 
takes for his unit a current which causes a deflection in his tangent t 
compass of 1°, and this produces 0.686 c, c. of the mixed gases in at 
minute. Since our unit of current is that which gives 1 c. c. per ' 
minute, it is evident that Lenz's values of strength of current must ; 
be multiplied by 0.686 to reduce them to our unit. In what follows i 
I shall always make use of the reduced values for the strength of cur- • 
rent, instead of those of Lenz. 

As the unit of resistance Lenz takes the resistance of one wind of ' 
his rheostat (agometre) of Grerman silver, which, according to his 
statement, is equal to the resistance of a copper wire of 6.358 English 
feet in length, and 0.0336 English inch in diameter. Hence, it appears 
that this unit of resistance is equal to 2.66 of our own ; the values of 
Lenz mu«t therefore be multiplied by 2.66 to reduce them to our 
unit. 




RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 395 

To measure the heat produced hy the galvanic current in a metallic 

ire, Lenz used the apparatus represented in Fig. 47. 

In the middle of the board is fastened the ^'s- '^^* 

lass stopper B, ground to fit into the neck 
fa glass jar which, by means of some grease, 
aay be fitted upon it air and water-tight. 
^ brass clamp, omitted in the figure, presses 
he lower rim of the neck of the jar to the 
)oard, so that it cannot be displaced even by 
dolent motions of the apparatus. The jar 
las ground in its bottom a cylindrical hole, 
nto which the fluid can be poured, and 
'lihrough which, also, a thermometer can be 
inserted by means of a cork. The thermom- 
eter used was divided to 4^ of a degree. Two 
pieces of wire of about 1 line in diameter are 
passed through perforations in the glass stopper and ceuiented there. 
'Their upper extremities projecting into the jar are somewhat conical, 
and made of platinum ; these platinum cones are soldered to copper 
wires of equal diameter, which, let into the board, pass to the screw- 
clamps s, into which the conducting wires from the poles of the battery 
are screwed. The wire to be heated is previously coiled into a spiral 
around a cylinder of 1 — 2 lines in diameter, and has its ends clamped 
upon the cones by means of two little pieces of platinum. It remains 
erect by its own elasticity, its coils not touching anywhere. 

The fluid with which the jar was filled, so far at least as en- 

' tirely to cover the wire-spiral, was spirit of wine containing 85 to 86 

' per cent, of alcohol, for water is so good a conductor that a part of the 

current would pass through it and not through the wire, as becomes 

immediately apparent from the feeble evolution of gas. 

After the wire-spiral was properly fastened and a measured quantity 
of spirit of wine poured into the jar the apparatus, together with the 
multiplier (Nervander's tangent compass) and the rheostat, were 
inserted in the circuit of a Daniell's battery. By means of the rheo- 
stat the current was always kept at a constant strength ; and then the 
time required to raise the thermometer in the spirit of wine a certain 
number of degrees was noted. By turning round the apparatus in a 
small circle, the fluid was made to rotate, whereby an equal distribu- 
tion of the temperature throughout its mass was produced. 

In order to avoid the errors arising from the loss of heat to sur- 
rounding bodies, the spirit of wine was previously cooled below the 
temperature of the air, and the experiment finished when its tempera- 
ture was just as many degrees above that of the surrounding air as it 
had been below it at the commencement. 

To give a clear idea of the course of the investigation, the individual 
steps for one series of experiments will be described at length. 

The temperature of the air being 16° R, the spirit of wine was 
cooled by means of ice down to 7° and poured into the jar ; the circuit 
was closed and the needle by means of the rheostat constantly kept at 
35° ; next, with a watch marking seconds, the exact instant was ob- 
served when the temperature of the spirit was 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 



396 



EECElfT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



15 degrees, and also the instant when it was 16, 17, 18, &c., to 2 
degrees, in this way it was found that the time required to raise th 
temperature of the spirit of wine from — 

15 to 17 viz: 2' 



was 



14 ' 


' 18 




4 


13 ' 


' 19 




6 


12 ' 


' 20 




8 


11 ' 


' 21 




10 


10 ' 


' 22 




12 



1.05 minutes. 

2.22 

3.25 

4.30 

5.42 

6.53 

and hence it follows that the time t, necessary to raise the tempera-i 
lure of the spirit of wine 1°, was on an average 0.542 minutes. 

The resistance to conduction of the spiral wire was ascertained byl 
observing, (after the removal of the apparatus of fig. 47 from thel 
circuit,) how many turns of the rheostat had to be inserted, in order, 
to bring the current again to the same strength that it had with thel 
heating apparatus in the circuit. 

The following table contains the results of a great number of such' 
experiments: 



<<- . 

O _to 

o C 


Kind of wire. 


s. 


t. 


I. 


1. 


German silver, a 


6.93 
10.53 
14.30 
10.53 
14.30 
18.32 
14.30 
18.32 
14.30 
IS, 32 
22.69 
18. 32 
22. 69 
27.52 
32.98 
27.52 


1.349 
0.571 
0. 300 
0.920 
0.481 
0.288 
0.457 
0. 384 
0. 5,55 
0. 325 
0. 435 
1.301 
0.835 
0.575 
0.381 
0.544 


93.50 


2. 
3. 
4-. 


do 

do 

German silver, b 


93.63 
93. 94 

58. 76 


ft, 


do 


58 64 


6. 

7. 
8, 


do 

do 

German silver, c 


59.01 
60. 16 
44. 59 


9 


Platinum 


50. 45 


10 


do 


51 41 


11 


Iron 


24. 92 


n, 


Copper 


13. 90 


l.S 


do 


13. 90 


14 


do 


13.92 


15. 
IG. 


-..do 

-..do 


14.01 
14.31 



Three different wires of German silver Avere used in the experiments ; 
that designated by a was the thinnest ; h was a little thicker than a 
and c a little thicker than h. 

In this table s denotes the force of the current ; I the resistance to 
conduction of the wire, expressed in units ; and t is the time neces- 
sary to raise the temperature of the spirit of wine 1°. How the value 
of t was determined each time from a series of experiments has already 
been stated above. 

The quantity of spirit of wine poured into the jar was always nearly 
the same, or 90 grammes on an average. 

If we compare all those series of experiments in which the force of 



RECENT PROGSESS IN PHYSICS. 397 

le current was the same, it appears that the product of t and I re- 
lains pretty nearly constant. It is — 

'or the current 10.53 : 

(2.) German silver, a t I z= 53.46 

(4.) German silver, 6..... t I =z 54.06 

for the current 14.30 : 

' (3.) German silver, a t I =z 28.18 

(5.) German silver, h tl = 28.11 

(7.) German silver, h tl z=z 27.40 

(9.) Platinum tl = 28.00 

Vor the current 18.32: 

(6.) German silver, 6 tl^=z 16.99 

(8.) German silver, c t I ■=. 17.12 

(10.) Platinum tl= 10.71 

' (12.) Copper tl= 18.08 

iFor the current 22.69: 

(11.) Iron tl = 10.84 

(13.) Copper tl = 11.60 

The equality of the values o^ t I for one and the same current is so 
apparent that we may safely assume that the time of heating is in- 
versely proportional to the resistance to conduction, or in other words, 
that the heat produced in a given time is directly proportional to the 
resistance to conduction, and independent upon other properties of the 
metaU 

In order to find out how the production of heat depends on the force 
'of the current, we must compare the experiments that were made with 
the same wire, and with different currents ; from these it appears that 
the value of s'-t is nearly constant for the same wire. The results are 
as follows : 

For the German silver wire a : 

1 sH= 64.8 

2 sH=z 63.3 

3 sH = 61.3 

For the German silver wire b: 

4 s-t= 102.0 

5 s-t= 98.4 

6 sH= 96.7 

7 sH= 93.5 

For the platinum wire: 

9 sH = 113.5 

10 s-t=: 109.1 

For the copper v/ire : 

12 sH= 436.6 

13 5-^ = 429.9 

14 sH= 435.5 

15 sH = 414.2 

16 sH = 412,0 

By these experiments, therefore, it is demonstrated that: 

1. The production of heat is proportional to the resistance cf the wires 
to conduction. 



398 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

2. The production of heat is proportional to the squares of the fow\ 
of the currents. 

If, therefore, t denotes the time wliich is required for the currenti 
with the resistance to conduction I, to raise the temperature of a give! 
quantity of spirit of wine 1° R, then s'-tl will be the time necessary t 
produce the same amount of heat in the same quantity of spirit^ l 
the unit of the strength of current with the unit of resistance to coi>"^ 
duction. Since now in all the experiments the quantity of spirit < 
wine was nearly the same, the product s-tl must also be nearly th 
same for all of the series in the above table. The product s'^t I hei 
the following values for the diiferent series of experiments : 
Series. s-tl. 

1 6059 

2 5927 

3 5758 

4 5994 

5 5770 

6 5706 

7 5625 

8 5747 

9 5726 

10 5609 

11 5975 

12 6069 

13 5976 

14 6062 

15 5803 

16 5896 

Mean 5856 

The quantity of spirit heated in these experiments together witlt' 
that of the glass, reduced by the relation of the specific heats to spirit! 
was 118 grammes. 

The unit of the force of current produces, therefore, when passing; 
through a wire which offers the unit of resistance to conduction, an 
much heat as would be required to raise the temperature of \\l\ 
grammes of spirit of wine 1° R. in 5856 minutes. 

The specific heat of the spirit used in the above experiments is 0.7 

to raise, therefore, the temperature of 118 grammes of spirit to a given 

degree requires the same quantity of heat as to raise 118.07 "=■ 82. (t 

grammes of water to the same degree. For 1 gramme of waterf 

therefore, that time amounts to : 

5856 

Q^-jT = 70.9 minutes; 

or if instead of Reaumer's scale that of Celsius is employed, 70,9 . 0,8 
■=. 56.72 minutes,* i. e., when the unit of the force of current passes 
through a wire, the resistance of which is equal to that of a coppei i 
wire of 1 meter in length and l"""" in diameter, the quantity of heat 
produced is such as would raise the temperature of 1 gramme of watei 
1° C. in 56f minutes. 

* In^he memoir of Lenz, an error occurs in this calculation, (P"C[. Ann., LXl, 42,) occa« 
sioned probably by mistaking minutes for seconds. 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 359 

If we take for the unit of heat, as is usually done, that quantity 
which raises the temperature of one kilogramme of water 1°, then it 
follows from the above investigations that the unit of the force of cur- 
irent_, in passing through the unit of resistance produces in it 0.001057 
units of heat in one hour and 0.0000176 in one minute. 

i' § 55, Observations on the results obtained by Lenz. — After Lenz had 
"determined the relation between the force of current and the production 
of heat in a metallic circuit, the idea naturally occurs that we might 
'compare the heat produced in the circuit wire with the quantity of 
^detonating gas produced by decomposition of water in the exciting 
cells, but a more intimate study of the subject soon proves that such a 
comparison cannot lead to a constant result. 

If there be a fixed relation between the quantity of detonating gas 
and the production of heat for any given arrangement of the Voltaic 
battery and a given closing wire, it will be changed as soon as — ceteris 
paribus — either the specific resistance to conduction of the battery or 
its electromotive force is changed ; for by either of these changes the 
strength of current is altered, and the evolution of gas changes pro- 
portionally with the force of current, while the production of heat 
increases as the squares of this force; and the relation between the 
quantity of gas and the heat developed must necessarily become dif- 
ferent from what it was before. The heat produced in the closing 
circuit, therefore, can by no means be considered as a thermal equiva- 
lent of the detonating gas evolved in the exciting cells, and con- 
sequently there can be no definite relation between the heat produced 
by exploding a certain quantity of detonating gas, and that set free in 
the closing circuit during the evolution of an equal quantity of gas 
in the exciting cells of a galvanic battery. 

The attempt to compare, even with only approximate correctness, 
the quantity of electricity of the electrical machine with that of Volta's 
apparatus, has always, hitherto, been unsuccessful. After Lenz's 
accurate researches on the production of heat by the galvanic current, 
and Riess' reliable quantitative determinations of the heat set free in 
a wire by the passage of the discharge of a Leyden jar, at first sight 
it would seem that a basis was found for this comparison. But here 
too the result on examination is a negative one. 

From the rather large quantity of heat produced in metallic wires 
by the discharge of the jar, we should be disposed to infer that a rather 
large quantity of electricity was brought into action thereby ; according 
to the experiments before mentioned* the increase of heat in the pla- 

tinum wire of the air thermometer for -^ = 1 is equal to 0.3787, or 

in round numbers equal to 0.4. That wire had a diameter of 0.072'" 
and a length of 59.7'" and therefore it weighed about 60 milligrammes ; 
to raise the temperature of this wire 0.4° requires, as can easily be 
computed, 0.000000768 units of heat. 

Let us now consider what quantity of heat would have been set free 
in the same platinum wire by the unit of galvanic current. In the 

* See Report of 1856, p. 437. 



400 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

unit of resistance, the unit of current produces 0.0000176 units of heat 
per minute ; but the resistance to conduction of such a platinum wire 
as can easily be calculated, is equal to 6 and consequently by the unit 
of current, 0.0000176 X 6 =r 0.0001 units of heat would have been 
produced in it. The increase of temperature in the platinum wire 

from the discharge of the jar for -^- = 1, viz: 0.000000768 is there- 

o 

fore nearly yj,^ of that produced by the unit of force of the current 
durino; one minute in the same wire. When 5=1, i. e. when the 
electricity is accumulated in one of the jars (mentioned in the experi- 
ment above quoted,) q must also be equal to 1 . For s = 1 and q = 10, 
i. e. when the jar is charged with 10 sparks from the measuring jar 
under the circumstances formerly explained, then its discharge must 
produce in a metallic wire an increase of heat nearly equal to that 
produced by the unit of current during one minute in the same wire. 
But to charge the jar with q = 10, the machine will scarcely require 
to be turned for one minute, and therefore the inference might be 
drawn from a superficial investigation of the production of heat, that . 
turning the machine for one minute would produce a quantity of elec- 
tricity equal to the chemical unit of the galvanic current. 

But that such a comparison, or rather such a conclusion from the 
comparison can not at all be admitted, is evident from the fact, that 
by means of the electrical machine no perceptible decomposition of 
water can be obtained, while one cubic centimetre of detonating gas 
ought to be readily evolved per minute. 

But a more careful investigation soon shows that the discharge of 
the jar and the galvanic current act under entirely different and not i 
comparable conditions, in producing heat in the Avire. 

The same charge of the jar when passing more slowly through a 
wire produces less heat in it, and the increase of temperature becomes 
imperceptible as soon as the time of discharge reaches a measurable 
duration ; if, therefore, the quantity of electricity, obtained by turning 
the machine for one minute, when accumulated in the jar produces by 
its discharge perceptible heat, the same quantity of electricity dis- 
charged through the wire in a continuous current during one minute, , 
will not perceptibly raise the temperature of the wire. But only such i 
a current can be compared with the galvanic. In order to compare e 
the electricity of the machine with that of the battery in relation to ) 
quantity, we should be able to measure the quantity of heat which is - 
produced in a metallic wire by the electricity passing through it from 
the conductor of the machine. The instantaneous discharge of an 
accumulated quantity of electricity cannot directly be compared with 
a continuous current. That the process by which heat is evolved in 
the discharge of the Leyden jar is entirely different from that of the .'' 
galvanic current, is also evident from the fact, that with the former i 
not only the quantity of electricity discharged through them is con- 
cerned, but also the area of surface upon which it was previously 
distributed ; thus, in the production of heat by the discharge of the 
jar, factors come into question which with the current do not appear 
at all. The galvanic current and the discharge of the jar have, as far 
as regards the production of heat in metallic wires only this in com- 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



401 



mon, that the rise of temperature is proportional to the square of the 
;pantity of electricity and to the resistance of the conductino; wire. 

§56. Ignition of metallic loires hy the galvanic current. — While the 
phenomena of the ignition of metallic wires by means of the discharge 
of the Leyden jar have been elucidated by the ingenious researches of 
Riess, corresponding investigations are wanting in reference to the 
galvanic current, though the latter might probably ofier less diffi- 
culties than the former. 

In Casselmann's treatise (already mentioned) " On the galvanic 
carbon- zinc battery, Marburg, 1844," the following remark occurs on 
page 43 : 

"A platinum wire of considerable length used for closing the 
circuit, does not become red hot, but when shortened to a certain 
length it does. Lessening this, however, by shortening it more and 
more it reaches finally a length at which it does not become red hot 
any more, and from this it follows that the ignition of the closing 
wire reaches a maximum only when its resistance to conduction bears 
a certain proportion to the quantity of electricity forcing its way 
through it." 

If the current of a battery makes a wire red hot by passing through 
it, still the force of this current must increase by shortening the wire, 
and it therefore appears not quite probable that the stronger current 
should no longer heat the shorter piece of wire to redness. To throw- 
some light on this point, I made a series of experiments myself, since, 
as above remarked, no thorough investigations have been made on this 
law of ignition in the galvanic current. 

My experiments were made in the following manner: In the circuit 
of the battery S (fig. 48) there was inserted at H, a wire-holder, 
which will next be described, and at i>, a tangent comnass. At Q 
there was a little mercury cup, by means of which the circuit could 
readily be opened and closed. 

The wire-holder is represented in fig. 49. Upon a board two brass 
rods were fastened, on each of which were two screw clami>,s capable 
of sliding up and down. 



Fiff. «. 



Fig. 48. 





26 s 



402 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



In one of the clamps a, the connecting wire from one pole of the'S 
battery was screwed and in the other that leading to the tangent- j 
compass. Between the clamps 6, the experimental wires were ex- 
tended and this was always done before closing the battery. The con- 
necting wires between S, H, B, Q and S, were copper wires about | 
line in diameter, and of a total length not exceeding 5 metres, so 
that their resistance was not considerable. 

After the wire to be experimented upon was properly inserted at E 
and all the other connexions properly made, the circuit was closed ati 
Q ; and, after the compass needle had come to rest, its deflection was. 
observed and at the same time the ax)pearance of the ignition in the! 
wire. 

The course of the experiments will become evident from the follow-^ 
ing tables which contain the results of the observations. 

The first three sets of experiments were made with platinum w'lrt 
of 0.45 millimetres in diameter. 

FIRSr SERIES. 
Battery of 40 carhon-zinc cups. 



Length of 


Deflection of com- 


Appearance of ignition. 




wire. 


pass needle. 






Mdrci. 


o 






1.5 


45 






1.3 


46 


Feeble, only in some spots. 




1.1 


47 


Feeble throughout the whole length. 




1.0 


48 


Red hot. 




0.8 


50 


Bright red. 




0.5 


66 


Nearly white hot. 





SECOND SERIES. 

Battery of 24 carhon-zinc cups. 



0.6 


44 




0.5 


45 


Feeble, only in some spots. 


0.4 


4G 


Somewhat increased. 


0.3 


48 


Red hot throughout the whole length. 


0.1 


51 


Bright red. 



THIRD SERIES. 

Battery of VI carbon- zinc cups. 



0.3 


46 


0.3 


47 


0.2 


48 


0.1 


60 



Feeble, nearly throughout the whole length. 

Still feeble throughout. 

Red hot. 

Bright red. '*il[ 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS 



403 



i Two series of experiments with an iron wire of 0.42 millimetre in 
iiameter gave the iollowing results : 

FOURTH SERIES. 

Battery of 24 carbon-zinc cups. 



Length of 
wire. 


Deflection of com- 
pass needle. 


Appearance of ignition. 


Metres. 
1 

0. S 
0.6 
0.4 
0.3 


o 

32 
33 
34 

35 


In some places. 

Not quite tiiroughout the entire length. 

Red hot. 

Bright red. 

Melted. 









FIFTH SERIES, / 

Battery of 12 carbon-zinc cups. 




In siomc places. 
Somewhat increased. 
Intensely red hot. 
Melted. 



f In reference to the experiments with iron wire it is to be remarked 
'hat in each one a new piece was inserted, because by ignition the 
urface was oxydized, and consequently the wire was altered. 

These experiments prove that one and the same loire produces, luith 
he same strength of current, the same phenomena of ignition, whatever 
nay be its length. 

In the platinum wire of 0.45 metre in diameter a partial ignition 
s produced by a strength of current corresponding to a deflection of 
t5° to 46°. With 40 elements this is effected in a wire of 1.3 
netre in length, with 24 cups in one of 0.5 metre, and with 12 cups 
n one of 0.4 metre. 

The red heat apjiears in all these experiments with a force of cur- 
'ent of 48°, while in the first series the length of wire is 1 metre, in 
;he second 0.3 metre, and in the third 0.2 metre. 

The light red heat occurs with a strength of current of 50 to 51°. 

Quite similar are the results from the experiments with the iron wire. 
Partial ignition ajjpears with a force of current of 82° to 33°, intense red 
heat with 35°. These experiments therefore do not show the pecu- 
liarity mentioned by Casselmann. It is to be regretted that he gives 
no more exact details, from which perhaps the reason of the anomaly 
observed by him could be explained. I presume, liowever, that it is 
caused by the great conduction of heat by the mass of the metal in the 
wire clamps, which has a considerable influence with very short wires. 



404 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



Casselmann used a wire-holder similar to that represented in fig 4 J 
By observing attentively a wire held by it while it is red hot, v, 
perceive that in the immediate vicinity of the clamps its glow is coi 
siderably less than in the middle. If now the wire be so far shorlene 
that the cooling influence of the clamps extends to its middle it seem 
easy to explain how, by shortening the length of the wire, the ph(i 
nomena of ignition finally disappear. This is also seen from th 
following observation : 

A platinum wire 0.21 metre in diameter was inserted in the circui 
of a sinojle carbon-zinc cup. With a length of 3 centimetres it bt 
came feebly red hot, while the tangent compass indicated 26°; bt 
when the same wire was shortened to 1 centimetre no ignition wav 
produced, even with a current of 34°. 

When, instead of the single element, two Bunsen's cups were used? 
the appearances of ignition were entirely identical with the length; 
of both 3 and 1 centimetre, though the corresponding deflection i 
the former case was 34°, and in the latter (the shorter wire) 44°. 

§ 57. Relation beliveen the diameter and force of current in metallv 
wires ignited by the galvanic current, — The above experiments do nc 
illustrate the relation between the force of current and the diametc 
of the wires, as corresponding to a certain degree of ignition, becaus 
only the length, but not the diameter of the wire, was varied. 

The following table gives the results of a set of experiments mad' 
with platinum wires of 1 decimetre in length and variable diameters' 



mm. 
C.3 



0.39 

0.45* 

0.75 



Degree of ignition. 



Feeble 

Red hot 

Bright red 

Very bright red. 

Feeble 

Red hot 

Bright red 

Feeble 

Red hot 

Bright red 

Nearly white hot 

Red hot 

Bright red 





p »■ 




t W) 








S ffl 


.^ 


Cj -*^ 








<^ o 












S II 






V 


o °= 


P 


fe 


o 




34 


47. ]8 


36 


f>0. 82 


3d 


54.67 


42 


63. 00 


43 


65. 24 


46 


7^.45 


48 


77.77 


47 


75. 06 


48 


77.77 


50.3 


84. 42 


56 


103.74 


60 


121.24 


66 


157. 22 



D 



163.9 
169.4 
1H2.2 
210.0 
163.7 
1^^5.5 
199.5 
106.6 
172.2 
1-7.6 
230. 3 
161.7 
209. 3 



i 



The experiments marked * are taken from the former series, (6(; 
page 420.) _ . . , 

Jb'rom this series of experiments we may assume that, in order t 
pi'oduce ihe same degree oj ignition^ the force of current must increaa 
^proportionally to the diameter of the ivires. According to this law, fo! 



« 



RECENT PEOGEESS IN PHYSICS. 405 



tV same degree of ignition the quotient of the diameter of the wire 
iro the corresponding force of current should be a constant quantity. 
Te last column of the previous table contains this quotient. It is : 
.^'or feeble ignition — 



With the diameter 




0.3 


163.9 


! 0.39 


163.7 


0.45 
1 Mean 


166.6 


164.7 


1 

ror red heat — 




0.3 


169.4 


0.39 


185.5 


! 0.45 


172.2 


0.75 
Mean 


161.7 


172.2 


(For bright red heat — 




03 


182.2 


0.39 


199.5 


0.45 


187.6 


0.75 


209.3 


Mean 


.194.6 



Deviation from the mean. 

— 0.8 

— 1.0 
+ 1.9 



— 2.8 
+ 13.3 



— 10.5 



— 12.4 

-f 4.9 

— 7.0 
+ 14.7 



For very bright red, nearly white heat — 

0.3 210.0 —10 

0.45 230.0 4- 10 



Mean 220.0 

The deviations from the mean are so irregularly distributed, in 
ispect to their quantity as well as to their sign, that without hesita- 
On we may attribute them to errors of observation. That these 
fjviations are so considerable, varying up to 7 per cent, of the cor- 
:sponding quotients, will not surprise us if we consider that the 
'igrees of ignition are not measured, but only estimated. 

A set of experiments similar to the above, with iron wire, gave the 
llowing results : 



Diameter. 


Degree of ignition, 


Deflection. Force of current. 


. s 


D 




V. s= 70, tang. v. 


w. 


0.2 


Feeble. 


19° 24.08 


120.4 


u 


Red. 


20 25.41 


127.0 


0.255 


Feeble. 


24 31.15 


122.1 


(( 


Red. 


25 32.62 


127 9 


0.38 


Feeble. 


34 47.18 


124.1 


(( 


Red. 


38 55.67 


146.1 


0.75 


Feeble. 


52 89.6 


119.4 


(( 


Red. 


56 103.74 


131.3 



406 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

The quotient ^r- is therefore : 
For feeble ignition — 



I 



With the diameter. 


Deviation from the mean, 


0.2 


120.4 


— 


1.1 


■0.255 


122.1 


H- 


0.6 


0.38 


124.1 


+ 


2.6 


0.75 


119.4 




2.1 


Mean 


121.5 




For red heat — 








0.2 


127.0 


— 


7.8 


0.255 


127.9 


— 


6.9 


0.38 


146.1 


+ 11.3 


0.75 


138.3 


+ 


3.5 


Mean 


134.8 





This series therefore confirms the results we obtained from the ei' 
periments with the platinum wire. 

With copper wire the following results were obtained : 



Diameter. 


Degree of ignition. 


Deflection. 


Force of current, 


s 
D. 


D. 




V. S 


=r 70. tang. 


V. 


0.2 


Feeble. 


48° 


77.77 


388.8 


ii 


Red. 


52 


89.60 


448,0 


•0.255 


Eed. 


59 


116.48 


418.3 


With silver wire : 








0.2 


Red.* 


51 


86.45 


432.2 


0.255 


Feeble. 


57 


107.80 


422.7 



§ 58. Comparison of the laws of galvanic ignition with those of Lei 
for the devel >pment of heat. — According to the laws of Lenz, the quai 
tity of heat liberated in a metallic wire increases proportionally 1 
the square of the force of the current, and to the resistance to coi 
duction of the wire. But with equal length the resistance to condun 
tion is inversely proportional to the square of the diameter. I 
therefore — all the other conditions remaining unchanged — the fore 
of current increases as the diameter of the wire, the quantity of lies 
developed must remain the same. 

But if in a thicker wire just as much heat is evolved as in a thinm 
one, we should certainly expect that the former would not attain tl: 
same degree of ignition as the latter, because the thicker wire imparl 
more heat to the surrounding air ; therefore, in order to obtain a 
equal degree of ignition in a wire of w times the diameter, we shoul 
have to employ a current more than n times stronger, while accordin 
to the above experiments a current with n times increased force 
suflicicnt. 

Let us more accurately determine this relation. According to tl 
researches of Lenz, above discussed, the heat produced in metall 

'"■ Melted after a while. 



EECENT PEOGRESS IN PHYSICS. 407 

Ivires by a galvanic current is proportional to the square of the force 
')f current and to the resistance to conduction of the wire. We can, 
herefore, put 

W =5^ Z . . , . 1.) 

ifhere W denotes the quantity of heat produced (within a given time) 

:n a wire, the resistance of which is I for the strength of current s. 

We may now consider W the quantity of heat which must be produced 
lin a given time in the wire in order to make it red hot. If this 
mire be replaced by one of the same metal and of equal length, but n 
[times the diameter, its surface will also be n times as great, and this 

surface gives to the surrounding air — cceteris paribus — n times as 
'much heat, and therefore n times as much heat, viz: w W, must be 
'evolved in the thicker wire in order to produce the same appearance of 
[red heat. But the resistance to conductions of the wire of n times 

igreater diameter is —7. Denoting by &' the strength of current 

jwhich makes it red hot, we obtain the equation : 

w W = 6'2 -4 . . . . 

n- 
I therefore, W =- s'^ A 2) 

and by combining the equations 1) and 2) 
s'- = n^ s^ 
or s' = s V^-' 3). 

Thus, according to this reasoning, a current of 2.83 and 5.19 times 
the strength should be necessary in order to make red hot, wires, the 
diameter of which is twice or three times as great, while, according 
to my observations, a two and three times stronger current proves suf- 
ficient ; in short, instead of equation 3), according to my observations, 
that of s' = w s holds good. The deviations are far too considerable 
to allow of the supposition that they proceed from errors of obser- 
vation. 

How this difference is to be accounted for I am at present unable to 
decide. It is, indeed, conceivable that with thicker wires and an equal 
strength of current the outermost stratum reaches so low a tem- 
perature that the loss of heat is not greater than from thin wires, but 
that towards the interior the temperature increases so rapidly that 
the outer colder strata have no perceptible influence upon the appear- 
ance of the wire. Small differences, too, are lost by the defective esti- 
mation of ignition, and it is therefore to be expected that deviations 
from the above law relating to the thickness will be found, when the 
diameter is more varied than in these experiments. I intend to con- 
tinue the investigation of this subject. 

The laws of ignition by the galvanic battery and by the discharge 
of the Leyden jar differ entirely. While the strength of current must 
be increased in equal, or at least nearly equal proportions to the 
diameter, the charge in the Leyden jar has to be augmented in pro- 
portion to the fourth power of it, if the degree of ignition is to be 



408 KECENT PKOGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

kept unchanged. This difference already shows that the galvanic 
ignition is essentially of another nature from that produced by the 
discharge of the jar. 

§ 59. Determination of the voltaic combination required to produce 
ignition in given metallic tvires. — The mean values above obtained for 

the quotient indicate the force of current necessary to bring a wire 

D 
of 1 millimetre in diameter into the corresponding degree of ignition. 
Therefore, for a platinum wire 1 millimetre in diameter, to make it 
feebly red the force of current required is 165 ; to make it red hot the 
force of current required is 172 ; to make it nearly white hot the force 
of current required is 220. 

For an iron wire 1 millimetre in diameter to make it feebly red the 
necessary force of current is 121 ; to make it red hot the necessary force 
of current is 135. To make a copper wire 1 millimetre in diameter red 
hot a force of current of 433 is required ; for silver this value is 432. 

I consider these numerical values only as first approximations. 

Denoting by s the force oi current which is required to bring a wire 
1 millimetre in diameter to a certain state of ignition, th en s.c? indicates 
the force required to produce an equal amount of heat in a wire of the 
same metal whose diameter is d. 

If once we know the force of current a required to produce a 
certain degree of ignition in a piece of wire of given diameter, and also 
the resistance to conduction r, which this wire in connexion with the 
other part of the closing circuit offers, then it is easily computed 
what com- bination of voltaic elements, of a known nature, has to be 
employed for the purpose. 

Let e denote the electro motive force, iv the specific resistance of one 
of the cups employed. These have to be so combined that they form 
a battery of n elements, each consisting of m cups placed together. 
Now, the values of n and m are to be determined. 

The cups must be so combined that the resistance of the battery is 
equal to that of the closing wire ; the total resistance, therefore, must 
be equal to 2r. We have, therefore, 

ne 

1 2ra 
and n =. • 



But the specific resistance of our battery is 

n 



■ w ■=. r. 
m 



Therefore, m = lo ; 



and the value for n being substituted, 

™ 2ii;a 
m = 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 409 

If, for instance, a platinum wire of 1.5 metre in length and 0.5 
millimetre in diameter is to be heated to redness^ how many Bunsen's 
cups, of the electro motive force of 800 and the resistance of 10, must 
be used and how are they to be combined? 

The resistance to conduction of a copper wire 1 millimetre in diameter 
and 1.5 metre in length is 1.5; thatof alike platinum wire is 5.1,5 =:*7, 5. 
But the resistance of a wire of one-half the diameter is four times as 
great, viz : 30. This would be the resistance at the usual tempera- 
ture ; but when the wire is red hot it is at least twice as great, viz : 
60. If we suppose that the resistance of the other part of the closing 
circuit is comparatively so little that it may be neglected, we have 
r = 60, and, for our case, a = 172.0,5 = 86. ThereforCj 



nMO 

12.9 
m 



= 86, consequently, n = 12,9 
10 = 60, consequently, m = 2,1 ; 



from which it follows that a battery of 12 double elements has to be 
employed. 

It is evident from this example that in the above mentioned exper- 
iments the arrangement was not the most advantageous. 

If a copper wire 1 millimetre in diameter and 0.5 metre in length is to 
be heated to redness, its resistance would be 1, supposing it to be twice 
as great at a red heat as it is at the usual temperature. If the resist- 
ance of the rest of the closing circuit is also equal to 1, its total will 
be equal to 2 ; but a in this case is 433, and therefore 

n = 2.16, m = 10.8. 

We have, therefore, to use a battery of two elements, each of which 
consists of 11 cups. 

A more accurate knowledge of the resistance to conduction of metals 
at a red heat would be necessary to give a greater degree of exactness 
to these calculations. 

In general more cups in a series will be required for producing igni- 
tion if the wires are bad conductors and of greater length,, and more 
cups, side by side in each element, if they are good conductors and of 
greater diameter. 

§ 60. Ignition of metallic wires in different gases. — Grove has made the 
remarkable observation that platinum wire heated to redness by the 
voltaic current in atmospheric air, is apparently extinguished when 
covered with a bell-glass, filled with hydrogen. — (Phil. Transact., 
1847, pt. 1 ; Fog. Ann., LXXI, 196.) Since the resistance to con- 
duction is greater in a wire intensely ignited than in one the heat of 
which is less intense, it was to be expected that, cceteris paribus, the 
same wire when in hydrogen would conduct a stronger current than in 
atmospheric air. 

Grove proved the correctness of this conclusion in the following 



410 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



manner : In the circuit of a constant battery besides a platinum wire, 
which could conveniently be surrounded by an atmosphere of different 
gases, a voltameter was inserted. The intensity of ignition in the pla- 
tinum wire was found to be very different in the different gases, but, at 
the same time^ the rate of the decomposition of water in the voltameter 
was also changed, so that in equal times the quantity of detonating 
gas obtained was greater as the heat evolved by the wire was less. The 
following quantities of detonating gas were obtained per minute in 
the voltameter when the platinum was immersed in the gases enume- 
ated: 

In hydrogen 7.7 cubic inches. 

defiant gas 7.0 " 

carbonic oxide 6.6 " 

carbonic acid 6.6 " 

oxygen 6.5 " 

nitrogen.... 6.4 *' 

atmospheric air 6.4 " 

do. condensed 6.5 " 

do. rarified 6.3 '' 

chlorine 6.1 " 

With the appearance of light in the wire, the heat produced in it 
also is greater, as is demonstrated by the following experiment: The 
bulb of a thermometer was placed at a certain distance from a coil of 
wire, which was heated to redness by a battery of 4 cells. When the 
coil remained in atmospheric air the thermometer rose 15° in five min- 
utes, but when it was immersed in hydrogen the rise, during the same 
interval, was only 7.5°. 

Poggendorf, in a note, expresses the opinion that this phenomenon 
may be connected with the observation formerly made by Dulong and 
Petit, that a heated body is more rapidly cooled in hydrogen than in 
atmospheric air. To me this view seems inadmissible, for if the wire 
in hydrogen gives out more rapidly the heat developed in it, the 
thermometer ought to rise more rapidly when the wire is placed in 
this gas, provided the quantity of heat produced in the wire by the 
galvanic current is always the same in whatever gas it is placed. 

This experiment, however, is not yet decisive ; but another one, 
described by Grove in a later memoir on the same subject, beyond a 
doubt refutes the above explanation of Poggendorf. — (Phil. Magazine, 
XXXY, 114 ; Fog. Ann. LXXVIII, 366.) Two glass tubes, A and 

B, fig. 50, 1.5 inch in length 
and 0.3 inch interior diame- 
ter, were closed at both ends 
with corks, which were 
penetrated by copper wires, 
connected inside of the tube 
by a spiral of platinum wire 
Jy inch in diameter and 3.7 
inches in length. The tube 
A was filled with oxygen, B with hydrogen, and the tubes were then 
placed in separate vessels, similar in every respect, and containing 



Fig. 50. 




RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICti. 411 

a'bout 3 ounces of water. A thermometer was immersed in the water 
of each of the vessels, and the copper wires were so connected that they 
formed part of the closing circuit of a constant zinc-platinum battery 
of 8 cells, each of 8 square inches acting surface. 

When the battery was closed the wire in the oxygen became incan- 
descent, while that in the hydrogen was not visibly ignited. The 
temperature of the water, which was 60° F. in both vessels at the 
beginning of the experiment, rose within 5 minutes to 70" in that 
around the hydrogen tube, and to 81° in that around the one contain- 
ing the oxygen. 

When both the tubes were filled with the same kind of gas the 
temperature in both vessels rose to the same degree. 

This experiment decidedly proves that the appearance of less heat 
in the wire immersed in hydrogen, with perfectly identical strength 
of current, cannot be caused by a more rapid absorption of heat by 
the hydrogen, because then, on the contrary, the water surrounding 
the hydrogen tube ought to be heated sooner. All this indicates that, 
in fact, a less production of heat takes place in the wire when sur- 
rounded by hydrogen. 

G-rove has proved that this phenomenon is not caused by a small 
amount of conduction of electricity by the hydrogen ; he has also de- 
monstrated that it cannot be brought into any connexion with the 
other physical properties of the gases, their density, specific heat, &c. 

As to the explanation of this peculiar fact, Grove endeavored in 
vain to find a tolerable one, and in the course of his somewhat dilated 
and obscure discussion arrives himself quite inconceivably at the con- 
jecture that the diiference of the gases might have a similar effect to 
a difference in the condition of the surfaces. This would essentially 
coincide with Poggendorf's above mentioned opinion, which was pro- 
pounded, however, before the experiment with the two glass tubes of 
fig. 50, which in the most distinct manner refutes such a view, was 
known to him. But Grove gives his consent to it immediately after 
he has himself made and described the experiment, which proves that 
this basis of explanation is inadmissible, and that the phenomenon 
cannot be deduced from diff'erences in conduction and radiation of heat. 

In my opinion the phenomenon is still entirely isolated and unex- 
plained. I do not think it profitable in such cases to cover up our 
want of knowledge with dilated disquisition, in which the physical 
scape-goat of our days, molecular action, has to play the principal part. 

§ 61. Effect of ignited platinum ivires on different gases. — It is a 
known fact that some of the compound gases suff'er decomposition in 
red hot tubes. Grove has produced similar effects upon these gases 
by the action of ignited platinum wires. — (Phil. Trans., 1817, ]it. 1 ; 
Pogg. Ann. LXXI, 194.) The following is the apparatus he used for 
this purpose : 

Into the upper end of an eudiometer tube, fig. 51, a curved plati- 
num wire was fused, from whose extremities copper wires conducted to 
the two mercury cups which connected them with the poles of the 
battery. The gas to be examined was confined over water, and, to 
prevent the glass from becoming too much heated, the whole eudiome- 



412 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



ter tube was immersed in a wider vessel filled with water. Sometimes 
the water was covered with a layer of oil one inch in depth. 



Fig. 51. 





/0!Sill"ll'''"l"lllllliiW& 


^ 




/■^^^fe 


\ 




P .ij: ,! 


\ 




Iflpl 


\ 



Fig. 52. 




When the gases had to he confined over mercury, or when a longer 
continuation of the ignition was necessary, the apparatus of fig. 52 
was used. He:e the eudiometer tube is bent, and its closed end, con- 
taining the platinum wire, immersed in a vessel filled with water or 
oil ; the open end dipping into another vessel containing the water or 
mercury, used for confining the gases. With this apparatus the 
following results were obtained : 

Nitric oxide, over distilled water, contracted in varying proportions 
to the heat. (The volume, of course, was not measured before the 
apparatus had entirely cooled.) In the best experiments the contrac- 
tion amounted to one-third of the original volume. The remaining 
gas was nitrogen, and nitric acid was found dissolved in the water. 

Nitrous oxide was decomposed into nitrogen and oxygen ; the 
volume increased by 0.35 of the original. The full equivalent pro- 
portion or 0.5 could not be obtained. 

Carbonic acid did not show any perceptible change. 

Ammonia increased to double its original volume ; the gas could no 
longer be absorbed by water, and consisted of 3 vol. of hydrogen and 
1 vol. of nitrogen. 

Olejiant gas contracted a little, and deposited carbon. The re- 
mainder was hydrogen and olefiant gas ; the greater the heat the 
more hydrogen was formed. 

Nitrogen remained unchanged. 

Oxygen contracted but very little, about one-fiftieth of its volume ; 
it might, perhaps, have contained a minute quantity of hydrogen. 

Chlorine over water gave white fumes, and a grayish-yellow insolu- 
ble powder collected on the sides of the tube, near the platinum wire; 
this was afterwards found to be chloride of platinum. The greatest 
part of the chlorine combined with the hydrogen of the aqueous vapor, 
and the muriatic acid formed was absorbed by the water. When the 
experiment was finished the volume of gas was reduced to about one- 
half, and the remainder was oxygen. 

With bromine and iodide of chlorine oxygen was evolved, (how the 
experiments with these bodies were performed I could not perfectly 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 413 

understand.) The residue could not be examined, because it acted 
both upon the platinum and upon the glass 

Hydrogen contracted very much, sometimes to one-tenth of the 
original volume. The cause of this contraction was a small quantity 
of oxygen, with which hydrogen gas is nearly always contaminated. 
Phosphorus brought in to the most carefully prepared hydrogen emits 
vapors of phcisphorous acid, shines in the dark, and produces a slight 
contraction. But even after this, the ignited wire produces a further 
contraction. The phosphorus, therefore, cannot remove all the oxygen 
from the hydrogen. 

After this experience Grove doubts the correctness of the values 
ascertained for the atomic weight of hydrogen. 

According to these experiments it seems that it would be more 
advantageous to use the platinum wire ignited by the galvanic cur- 
rent, than the electrical spark in eudiometric experiments. 

Hydrogen and carbonic acid mixed in equal volumes were easily 
affected by the ignited wire. They contracted to 0,48 of the original 
volume ; the residue was carbonic oxide. One equivalent of oxygen 
and 1 of hydrogen had, therefore, combined together. 

Carbonic oxide exhibited a remarkable phenomenon. Carefully 
purified from any carbonic acid, it was exposed to the action of the 
ignited wire over distilled water, and its volume increased from one- 
fifth to one-third, according to the intensity of ignition. 

When the gas was dry and confined over mercury, this increase of 
volume did not take place ; it must have been dependent, therefore, 
upon the presence of aqueous vapor ; and, in fact, the increase of 
volume was found to be caused by the formation of carbonic acid. By 
agitation with caustic potash or lime water the gas was reduced to 
exactly its former volume ; but then it was found to be mixed with 
a volume of hydrogen equal to that of the carbonic acid absorbed. 
This is explained in the ioUowing manner : " Half a volume or one 
equivalent of oxygen derived from the vapor of the water had com- 
bined with one volume or equivalent of carbonic oxide, and formed 
one volume or equivalent of carbonic acid, leaving in place of the car- 
bonic oxide, with which it had combined, the one volume or equiva- 
lent of hydrogen with which it had been originally associated." 

On comparing this experiment with the previous one, the singular 
inversion of affinity under circumstances so nearly similar will appear 
surprising; in the former case hydrogen abstracted oxygen from car- 
bonic acid in order to form water, leaving carbonic oxide, while in the 
latter the carbonic oxide takes the oxygen trom the aqueous vapor to 
form carbonic acid and leaves hydrogen. 

A more exact idea of the nature of these reactions has not yet been 
obtained. By the latter experiment, in which a decomposition of 
aqueous vapor also took place, G-rove was led to the idea that it might 
be possible to decompose aqueous vapor and produce detonating gas 
simply by means of the ignited wire. He succeeded in this as will be 
seen in the following : 

§ 62. Decomposition of aqueous vapor by ignited platinum luire. — 
Grove discusses the decomposition of aqueous vapor into its elements 
in the same memoir in which he treats of the action of the ignited 



414 



REGENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 




wire upon the different gases. After many unsuccessful experiments 
this decomposition was effected by means of the following apparatus : 

A bent glass tube, 
Fig- 53- open at one end, (fig. 

53) was connected at 
its other end by a nar- 
row neck, with a bulb 
into which the plati- 
num wire passed, as 
represented in the fig- 
ure. The whole tube 
was filled with water 
previously freed from 
air, and its open end 
immersed in a vessel of water. On applying a battery of two zinc-plati- 
num cells, the air in the bulb was expanded and expelled so that the 
water entered it and then soon boiled, and at a certain period the wire 
became ignited in the vapor. "At this instant a tremulous motion 
was perceptible, and separate bubbles of the size of pin-heads ascended 
and collected in the bend of the tube. It was not a continuous evolu- 
tion of gas as in electrolysis, but appeared to be a series of jerks; the 
water in returning through the narrow neck formed a natural valve, 
which cut off by an intermitting action portions of the atmosphere 
surrounding the wire." The collected gas was detonating gas. 

That this evolution of detonating gas can certainly not be attributed 
to electrolysis has been satisfactorily demonstrated by G-rove. I give 
below the most important of his arguments. 

1. A battery of two cups produces in distilled water, even under 
the most favorable conditions, a scarcely perceptible electrolysis. 

2. The decomposition did not commence until the wire became 
ignited. 

3. When the wire was divided no gas was evolved. 

Grove now endeavored to produce the decomposition of aqueous 
vapor in such a manner that the red hot platinum wire could only 
come in contact with the vapor. A glass tube, as in fig. 54, which 

at its closed end had a curved platinum 
F's- ^'*- wire melted in, was filled with water 

which had been carefully freed from air 
by long boiling and the air pump; it was 
then inverted in a vessel of the same 
water, and a spirit lamp applied to its 
closed extremity until the upper half was 
filled with vapor, which therefore sur- 
rounded the platinum wire. The wire 
,„ was then brought to full ignition. After 

M.W'i^df0&>^' . the connexion was broken and the lamp 

removed, the water gradually ascended 
again, but a bubble of the size of a mustard seed remained in the 
tube, and detonated when touched by a lighted match at the surface 
of the water trough. The experiment was repeated, the wire being 





EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 415 

kept ignited for a longer time, but the gas could not be increased 
beyond a very limited quantity. 

The experiment just described was repeated and the gas bubble 
transferred to another tube, the wire was then again ignited in vapor, 
the bubble formed again removed, until a sufficient quantity of gas 
was collected for analysis, which required the labor of ten hours. 
This gas was now detonated in a eudiometer and left a residue of 
0.35 of its original volume, which consisted of nitrogen. The experi- 
ment was repeated several times with the same result; sometimes a 
trace of oxygen was found in the residue. 

Here electrolysis was completely excluded ; the wire was ignited in 
dry steam. 

When in the apparatus of fig. 55 the 
sparks of a large hydro-electric machine ^'°" ^''" 

were passed between platinum points 
through the vapor, a small bubble of de- 
tonating gas was also formed. 

As in the previous experiments a whole 
day's work did not increase the bubble, 
but when it was transferred, another in- 
stantly formed. The gas similarly col- 
lected detonated and left a residue of 0.4 
of its original volume of nitrogen with a trace of oxygen. 

By an estimation, which could of course only be approximate, the 
detonating gas formed, was found to be about y^Vo" ^^ the volume of 
the vapor. 

Grove considered this evolution of detonating gas not to be a spe- 
cific effect of electricity at all, but of heat alone, and indeed, succeeded 
also in decomposing aqueous vapor merely by heat without electricity. 

Omitting the less successful experiments, we shall at once proceed to 
those that gave very decisive results. With a constant battery of 30 
zinc-platinum cells the end of a thick platinum wire was melted into 
a globule of the size of a pepper corn ; between this and the carbon 
point of the negative pole the voltaic arc was taken until the gobule 
was again near its melting point. It was then rapidly plunged into 
water, freed from air, that was kept boiling by means of a spirit lamp, 
and into which a tube filled with the same water was inverted. Sepa- 
rate bubbles of gas rose into the tube. This process was repeated 
until a sufficient quantity of gas was collected, which, after explosion, 
once left a residue of 0.4 ; another time only 0.25 of the original 
volume, consisting, as usual, of nitrogen and traces of oxyen. The 
galvanic battery here served evidently only to bring the platinum to 
ignition. When melted and heated by means of the oxy-hydrogeu 
blow-pipe, it acted exactly in the same manner. In this way more than 
^ cubic inch of detonating gas was obtained. 

The heated globule is evidently, when immersed in the water, 
immediately surrounded by a stratum of vapor, from which then the 
small quantity of detonating gas is developed. 




416 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

To obtain a continuous evolution of the mixed gases from water sub- 
jected to the action of heat alone, Grove constructed the apparatus 
Fig. 56. shown in fig. 56 ; a and b 

are tubes of silver 4 inches 
in length and 0.3 in diam- 
eter, connected by two pla- 
tinum caps to a tube of a 
perforated platinum wire 
0.125 inches diameter, the 
bore having the diameter of 
a large pin ; a is closed at 
the extremity, and to the 
extremity of b is fitted, by 
means of a coiled strip of 
bladder, the bent glass tube d. The whole apparatus is filled with 
water freed from air, and, after having expelled the air from a by 
heat, the end of the glass tube was immersed in a vessel of boiling 
water. Heat is now applied by a spirit lamp, first to b and then to a, 
until the whole boils ; after this the flame of an oxy-hydrogen blow- 
pipe is directed upon the middle part of the platinum tube c, and when 
this has obtained a high degree of ignition gas is evolved which, mixed 
with vapor, soon fills the whole apparatus, and escapes through the 
open end either into the open air or into a gas collector. 

The gas thus obtained left, after its detonation, a residue of 0.3 of 
its volume, consisting of nitrogen and a trace of oxygen. 

That, in all these caries, the remnant consists of nitrogen is caused 
by the great difficulty or even impossibility of absolutely removing all 
the air from the water. 

This series of phenomena is very remarkable. While the detonating 
gas, under the influence of heat, is condensed to vapor of water, we 
have here exactly the opposite action, though to a very limited extent 
only. The elaboration of the more intimate conditions and relations 
of this decomposition of aqueous vapor, which might lead to an explan- 
ation of the phenomenon, we must leave to the future. 

When Grove says " that these experiments afford some promise of 
our being, at no distant period, able to produce mixed gases for pur- 
poses of illumination, &c., by simply boiling water and passing it 
through highly ignited platinum tubes, or by other methods," I cannot 
help expressing my doubts whether, even if the manufacture on a 
large scale should succeed, the detonating gas thus produced could 
give more light and heat than the fuel consumed in its formation. 

§ 63. Application of galvanic ignition to blasting rocks. — It has for a 
long time been known that gunpowder can be ignited by the electric 
spark, as shown long ago by Franklin, and still repeated a^ one of the 
usual experiments in the lecture room. But, although blasting by 
means of frictional electricity is therefore possible, still there are too 
many difficulties in the way of the process to allow us to expect its 
introduction into practice. 

Hare was the first to employ the ignition of metallic wires by the 
galvanic current in blasting. But his apparatus was too complex and 






RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



417 



Fi.'. 57. 



unsuited for every day use by common laborers, and, therefore never 
was used to a great extent.* In consequence of the many fatal 
accidents in mines and quarries, Roberts, of England, directed his 
attention to this subject. After many endeavors he succeeded in 
making the application of the galvanic current to blasting so simple 
that his process deserves general commendation. It was first described 
in the Mechanics' Magazine, May, 1842, p. 353. — (Dingler's Polytech. 
Journal, LXXXV, 275.) We shall be .brief in this notice, as pro- 
bably much that is contained in the article mentioned is well known. 
In order to avoid the necessity of arranging before each charge the 
fine iron wire between the conductors, Roberts invented cartridges, a 
number of which can always be prepared in advance. They are made 
in the following manner : two copper wires, each 10 feet long and 1 line 
thick, well covered with waxed cotton or woolen yarn, are placed side 
by side close together ; at one end they are twisted together for aborit 
6 inches, as represented in Fig, 57, and their extremities left to form 
a fork, a little over ^ inch long, with its extremities l, 
inch apart ; the ends of this fork are then laid bare, 
cleaned by filing, and the fine iron wire is stretched 
between them. The iron wire is wound around the 
extremities of the copper wires, and may then be soldered 
with tin. 

The iron igniting wire is, of course, destroyed by each 

explosion ; to save the conducting copper wires they 

are firmly tied together with twine, as indicated in the 

!fio;ure, and then wound around with fine binding wire. 

I The body of the cartridge is a tin tube, 3 inches in 

[length and f to 1 inch in width, soldered and perfectly 

I water tight. (A glass tube might probably answer.) 

' The fine iron or steel wire is placed at aboat the middle of 

; the cylinder, and is kept in its place by means of a cork 

I which closes the cylinder, and through which the 

I twisted copper wires pass. It is best to cut this cork 

• lengthwise, and after putting the wire between the 

two halves, to press them into the tube. But on account 

of the thickness of the conducting wires it will probably 

be found more convenient to make a groove in the cork 

for their reception. The cork being put in so that the 

fork is nowhere in contact with the sides of the tube, it 

is covered with a good cement. Roberts recommends a 

mixture of one part beeswax and two parts rosin. 

The tube is then to be filled through its open end 
with dry sporting powder, and closed by another cork, 
which must also be covered with the cement. 

Figure 58 represents the entire cartridge. Figure 59 shows how 
the cartridge is pla,ced in the hole; 

* Our author could not possibly have seen Dr. Hare's description of his apparatus when 
he wrote this sentence. The original notice (Am. Jour. Science and Arts, vol. 21, p. 139, 
1832,) shows that Dr. Hare's apparatus was not complex, and that it was essentially the 
eame as that here desciibed as the contrivance of Roberts. Gr. C. S. 

27 s 




418 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



1 




The charge is 




After all dusfc and moisture are properly removed from it, one half 
of the intended charge is put into the hole, the cartridge is insert^'^ 

and the remaining gunpowder 
F'gss- filled in above it. Thus, the ^'s-^- 

cartridge is in the middle of the 

charge, and the long conducting 

wires still project several feet 

above the rock 

not tamped in the usual way 
A wadding of straw or tow is 

carefully pushed down the hole, 

so that a space filled with air, of 

variable size according to circum- ^<^^ 

stances, remains between it and ''^^ 

the charge. Upon this wad dry #^^ 

sand is poured until the bore is :^; 

entirely filled, ^■ 

The two separate ends of the cartridge wires 
must now be brought into connexion by con- 
ducting wires with the battery 60 to 90 feet 
ofi". The conductors are also covered wires 
about one line in diameter, placed side by side 
and kept close together by being wound over 
with twine throughout their whole length, 
with the exception of their extremities^ where they are to be connected 
with the battery and with the cartridge wires. 

It is sometimes necessary that the person who has to ignite the 
cbarge should still be further off from the charge than the battery is, 
and for this purpose an arrangement must be made by which the 
circuit may be closed from a distance. 

Eoberts contrived the following arrangement for this purpose : upon 
two opposite ends of the box which contains the battery two v/ooden 
posts are erected, connected above by a wooden rod of one inch in 
diameter. At one end a tin disk, A, fig. 60, three to four inches in 

Fi". 80. 



% 



^ 



^■«!v\^\ 




diameter, is fastened, to which a wire is soldered conducting to one, 
say the positive pole of the battery. Another tin disk, B, is fastened 
to a tin tube, made to slide easily on the rod, and this is kept from 
A by a spiral spring. One end, D, of this spiral is connected with 
one of the conducting wires, while the other conducting wire leads to 
the negative pole of the battery. The disk B is therefore connected 



EECEST PSOGEESS IN PHYSICS. 419 

tlirougli a long circuit, including the fine igniting'wires, with the nega- 
tive pole, so thatfB may be considered the negative pole and A the 
positive. The current circulates and produces ignition in the iron 
wire as soon as A and B come into contact. 

In order to pull the disk B towards A from a distance, two pieces of 
twine fastened to B pass through holes in the disk A, and at E are 
connected with the long string that reaches to the place whence the 
person who is to close the circuit stands. An accidental discharge 
is prevented by a peg F between A and B, which must be removed 
before the two disks can come in contact. But besides lessening the 
danger this method of blasting oifers other considerable advantages; 
it enables us v/ithout much difficulty to explode powder under water. 
For this purpose the entire charge is to be enclosed in a water-tight 
tin box and this put in the place where its action is desired. 

The application of galvanic ignition is also very advantageous when 
great masses of rock are to be blasted. Formerly, in such cases, it 
was necessary to use a heavy charge in one great mine, but several 
smaller properly distributed charges would produce a much greater 
effect if they could be ignited simultaneously. This can now be done 
by the aid of the galvanic current ; the connecting wires have only to 
be so arranged that all the holes are at the same time in the circuit. 
In this way immense effects have been obtained in England. 

What power the battery must have in each case can easily be ascer- 
tained from preceding sections. From section 59 can be ascertained what 
force of current is required to make the thin iron wire incandescent, 
(the diameter of which must of course be known,) and after computing 
the resistance in the conducting wires, it is easy to determine how 
many cups or pairs of plates of any give point must be used and how 
they must be arranged to produce this force of current. 

§ 64. The voltaic arc. — By the construction of the constant battery, 

! the production of the arc of light which Davy was the first to observe 

is greatly facilitated, and hence this interesting phenomenon has beeE 

several times investigated, though much is still left for furthei 

researches. 

De la Kive paid great attention to the galvanic arc; v;-e take tha 
following from his elaborate treatise on this subject, published in 
Phil. Trans., f. 1847, (Pogg. Ann., LXXVI, 170.) 

The voltaic arc can be produced not only between carbon points but 
also between points of different metals. It is greater with the more 
fusible or oxydisable metals, as zinc or iron, than with platinum or 
silver. The size of the arc of light is proportioned to the greater or 
less facility with which the substance of the electrode disintegrates ; 
for since this phenomenon is produced by minute particles ot 
matter carried over from one electrode to the other, its formation must 
necessarily be favored by a less cohesion of the electrodes; this is also 
the reason why, under otherwise like conditions, the greatest arc of 
light is always obtained between carbon points. The transference of 
the matter is always from the positive to the negative pole. In the 
air and with metallic electrodes, the deposit upon the negative pole 



420 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

always consists of oxydized particles of tlie metal used as tlie positive 
electrode. 

If the negative pole has the form of a plate, while the positive pole 
is a point, the deposit of the transferred matter upon the plate 
forms a very regular ring, the centre of which is the projection of the 
point upon the plate. 

When the arc of light is taken between a metallic point and an 
opposite surface of mercury, the latter, when positive rises in a cone, 
but forms a cavity when negative. In this case it is very difficult to 
observe accurately the minutias of the phenomenon^ on account of the 
great quantity of mercurial vapor evolved. 

De la Rive made experiments with plates and points of platinum, 
iron, silver, and copper, but I cannot enter upon the details of the 
experiments, because there is much that is not clear to my mind ; in 
many cases, for instance, I cannot see in the individual experiments 
the proof and confirmation of the generalizations announced. A 
repetition of these experiments and an accurate description, illustrated 
when practicable with figures, seems therefore very desirable. 

§ 65. Intensity of light of the voltaic arc. — Casselmann has made 
experiments upon the intensity of light of the voltaic arc, which have 
been described in the memoir already mentioned. They were after- 
wards also copied into Poggendorf's Annals. — (Pog. Ann., LXIII, 
576.) The photometer used in his experiments was constructed upon 
the same principles as that described in the third edition of my Lehr- 
huch der Physik, vol. II, 674. The carbon pieces, between which the 
arc was taken, were of the same composition as that used in the cylin- 
ders of Bunsen's battery, but prepared also in other ways, as some of 
them were saturated in solutions of nitrate of strontium, boracic acid, 
(fee, and then intensely ignited. Thus prepared they gave a very 
steady light, differently colored, according to the solution employed ; 
and the carbon points could (with a Bunsen battery of 44 cups) be re- 
moved to a distance of 7 to 8 millimetres before it disappeared, while 
the unsteady light of unprepared carbon went out at a distance of 5 
millimetres. 

A tangent compass was at the same time inserted into the circuit, 
80 that for each measurement of the intensity of light the correspond- 
ing force of current could be determined. 

The brightest parts of the whole light, it is well known, are at the 
points of the two pieces of carbon, upon which the arc rests. In the 
following table the intensity of the whole light is compared with that 
of a stearine candle, and for each kind of carbon, with the points once 
at a very small, and then at the greatest possible distance. The values 
of the force of current are reduced to the chemical unit. 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



421 



Unprepared carbon 

' Carbon with nitrate of strontium 

Carbon Avith caustic potash 

Carbon with cliloride of zinc 

Carbon with borax in sulph. acid 



Distance of 
the carbon 
points. 


fa 


mm. 




0.5 


95 


4.5 


68 


0.5 


120 


6.75 


88 


2.5 


101 


8.0 


82 


1.0 


80 


5.0 


67 


1.5 


72 


5.0 


6i 



932 
139 

353 
274 

160 
75 

624 
159 

1171 
165 



This table shows that on increasing the distance of the points the 
intensity of light and the force of current decrease. By most of the 
substances with which the carbon had been prepared, the arc of light 
was made more steady and allowed of a greater distance of the points, 
but the intensity was not greater, except with the carbon prepared 
with borax and sulphuric acid. 

But the results in the above table are only approximately accurate, 
since the changeable position of the most brilliant points at the origin 
of the arc may have prevented the light from acting with its full in- 
tensity upon the photometer. In another series of experiments, an 
abstract of which is given in the following table, this error was 
avoided, the arc of light having been directed towards the photometer 
by means of a magnet. In these experiments only 34 Bunsen's cups 
were used, the distance of the carbon points was not changed, and the 
intensity of the light was measured for different degrees of force of 
current. 



Intensity of 
liy:ht. 



Carbon with boracic acid. 



Carbon with sulpliate of soda. 




198 
252 
298 

178 
203 
34 6 
460 



The carbon saturated with sulphate of soda was not heated to red- 
ness before use. 

It follows from these experiments that the intensity of light in- 
creases in a somewhat greater ratio than the force of the current. 



422 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

l! 

It is to be regretted that we have no measures of the intensities of ■ 
the galvanic light, when different metals are used instead of the 
carbon points. 

Fizeau and Foucault have also made comparative experiments on the 
intensity of the galvanic arc light, but from another point of view. — 
(Ann. cie Chim. et de Phys. ser. Ill, T. XI, pp. 370; Pog. Ann., 
LXIII, 463.) They did not compare the intensity of the light from \ 
different sources, but its chemical effect. In this way they compared 1 
the galvanic light with that of the sun, and of lime incandescent in i 
detonating gas. The experiment was conducted in the following ;; 
manner: An iodized silver plate was inserted in a camera obscura, in i 
the place where the image of the sun or of the light, emanating from ] 
the carbon or lime, was formed. After a short action of the light the :' 
camera obscura v/as closed, and the position changed, so that another ■ 
image of the object was shown upon the prepared silver plate beside : 
the first one ; the exposure was somewhat longer than before ; for a i 
third place still longer, &c. The plate was then put into the mercury ' 
bath and examined, in order to find which one of the images became : 
visible by the action of the mercurial vapor. In this way it was ascer- 
tained how long the light had to act in order to produce that change ' 
in the iodide of silver, which is necessary for the condensation of the 
mercurial vapor. 

If all the other circumstances were entirely identical, the time re- 
quired for the production of the Daguerrean image would be nearly ■ 
inversely proportional to the chemical intensity of the corresponding 
sources of light. 

But Fizeau and Foucault used for their experiments with the arti- 
ficial light lens of shorter focus than for obtaining images of the sun ; 
the aperture of the lens also was varied by means of diaphragms. 
These circumstances have, therefore, to be taken into account. 

If the image is n times further from the lens, it will, caBteris 
paribus, be n times greater in its linear diriiensions, and will, there- 
fore, cover a surface n^ times as large, and consequently the in- 
tensity of light at each point of the image will be n^ times less. 
The chemical power of the source of light may, therefore, be con- 
sidered proportional to the square of the distance of the image formed 
from the lens. 

But it is also, as easily perceived, inversely proportional to the sur- 
face of the opening of the lens, i. e., to the square of its radius, and 
therefore 

T_ d^ 

when J denotes the chemical power of the source of light, d the dis- 
tance of the image from the lens, r the radius of its opening, and t 
the time required to produce a Daguerrean image. 

If we denote by « the angle which the radius of the aperture of the 
lens subtends at the place of the image, then 

— = tang, a 
a ° 

therefore J = r~^ 

t. tang, a 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 423 

By this, or ratlier by a similar equivalent formula, Fizeau and 
Foiicault compufced the results of their observations, and thus obtained 
the following relative values for the intensity of the sources of light. 

Sun-light, in August and September, at noon, with a clear sky 1000 

Garhon-ligldj produced by 46 Bunsen's zinc-carbon cups 235 

Lime-light , 6.8 

The lime-light appears to be surprisingly little ; but Fizeau 
and Foucault found with the common photometrical method a similar 
relation between the lights from lime and carbon. No other com- 
parative measurements are known to which these can be referred ; a 
careful experimental re-examination of the matter is, therefore, de- 
sirable. 

In reference to the change of the intensity of the carbon-light with 
the number and magnitude of the galvanic elements we hud the fol- 
1 lowing data in this memoir : While a battery of 46 Bunsen's elements 
gave an intensity of light of 235, this was increased to 238 only when 
the number of cups was augmented to 80 ; but a battery of 46 triple 
cups gave an intensity of 385, after having been already in action 
for one hour. 

In consequence of the rapid alteration of the fluid — the diluted sul- 
j)huric acid becoming gradually a solution of sulphate of zinc — the 
force of the battery, and with it the intensity of the arc of light pro- 
duced by it, decreases rapidly. While 80 cups afforded at first an 
intensity of 238, this after three hours was diminished to 159. 

It is to be regretted that these physicists have not measured the 
force of current corresponding to the intensity of light, whereby 
the value of the above given numerical relations would have been 
very much enhanced. 

§ 66. Production of heat hy the voltaic arc. — The heat developed at 
the poles, between which the arc is taken, is entirely too great to be 
attributed to the mere passage of the electric current through these 
conductors. According to the experiments mentioned in § 57, a cur- 
rent, to make a platinum wire of 0.75 mm. in diameter incandescent 
by its passage, must have at least a force of 1^>0. Therefore, to make 
a platinum wire .of 3 mm. in diameter only white-hot requires, at the 
very least, the enormous force of current of 640 ; and yet with the cur- 
rent of a Bunsen's battery of 44 cups and a force of 80 to 100, we can 
produce an arc in which the point of a platinum wire of more than 3 
mm. in diameter may easily be melted into a globule, if used as one 
pole of the battery while the other is formed by a carbon point. _ The 
combustion of carbon is so trifling that it cannot essentially contribute 
to the great heat produced ; besides, the fusion of the platinum wire 
by the galvanic arc takes place in a vacuum as readily as in the opeu 
air. 

The electric current, therefore, besides producing heat by its mere 
passage through the conductors, in forming the arc rnust act at the 
pole itself to produce heat in some other way, of which as yet we 
know nothing- 

The development of heat is not equal at the two poles of the arc ; 
it is greater at the positive than in the negative. De la Rive, in his 



424 RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

treatise already mentioaed, in § 64, adds, in reference to this fact, the 
following observations : . 

When, in forming the arc, a positive metallic point is opposite to a 
negative plate, the point becomes ignited throughout, while on invert- 
ing the poles the negative point is heated at its extremity only. 

If two points of the same metal are opposed to each other the posi- 
tive one becomes more intensely ignited, and over a greater length. 
If they are of different metals^ of course that one becomes most in- 
tensely ignited which is made of the worst conducting metal. 

To this category belongs also an observation of Walker, made with 
a Daniell's battery of 160 cups. — (Trans, of the Lond. Electr. Soc, pp. 
65 and 71; Pog. Ann., LV, 62.) He laid the pole wires crosswise, 
but so that after the contact they were again moved to a little distance 
from each other, and a short arc of light passed between them. Under 
these circumstances the positive end of the wire, from the point of 
crossing, became so intensely hot that it softened and bent, while the 
negative end remained comparatively cold. 

Experiments on the heating effects of the voltaic arc have been 
made on the greatest scale by Despretz. He collected, in Paris, 500 
sine-carbon cups, and arranged a battery of 124 elements, each con- 
sisting of four Bunsen's cups. When a piece of sugar carbon, in a 
glass globe exhausted to 5 millimetres, was brought between the poles 
it became intensely ignited and the globe was covered with a dry, 
crystalline black powder. Carbon from gas retorts produced the same 
effects. This shows a sublimation of the carbon. 

Desprelz thinks too that he observed traces effusion of the carbon. 
At any rate his experiments show that carbon evaporates more readily 
than it melts. He believes that it could be melted in metallic vessels 
in an atmosphere of compressed nitrogen. Similar in behavior to 
carbon are lime, magnesia, oxide of zinc, &c. Alumina, rutil, 
anatase, nigriue, oxide of iron, &c., form at first small globules, but 
afterwards evaporate. 

Previous to these experiments with 496 cups Despretz had used a bat- 
tery of 165 elements, and combined the heat of its arc with that of the 
oxy-hydrogen blow-pipe and of the sun concentrated through a sec- 
tional lens 90 centimetres in diameter. The effect of the galvanic 
battery was increased by the addition of the other sources of heat. — 
(Comptes Rendus, July, 1849, No. 3 ; Dingler's Polytechnic Jour- 
nal, CXIV, 342.) 

§ 67. Influence of magnetism upon the voltaic arc. — That magnetic 
forces have an influence upon the position and form of the arc has 
already been observed by Davy, and it is known that this arc is 
affected by a niagnet in the same manner as a movable conductor when 
a galvanic current is passing through it ; the terrestrial magnetism, 
therefore, must also act upon it. By the motion of the heated air the 
arc of light is always carried upwards, so as to form a curve, convex 
above. If we conceive a perpendicular plane to be passed through 
the carbon points lying horizontally, the action of terrestrial magnet- 
ism will be such that the highest point of 'the arc will never be in this 
plane, but on one side or the other. 




RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS 425 

Casselmann, in his treatise already mentioned, in § 56, gives ex- 
periments on this subject. If, with opposite horizontal carbon points, 
the current was passing — 

From The deviation of the apex was to wauls 

N. to S. E. • 

W.toE. N. 

S. to N. W. 

E. toW. S. 

This can be easily deduced. In fig. 61 a and b represent the two 
horizontal carbon points between which the Pi„ gi 

arc is produced. If now we imagine a per- 
pendicular plane passed through a and b, 
and a straight line to pass perpendicularly 
through the plane between these points, as 
indicated by the arrow, then a steel needle 
placed in this line would be magnetized by 
the current of the arc, and its N. end would 
be at the point of the arrow when the posi- 
tive current is passed from a through the arc towards h. But by the 
influence of the terrestrial magnetism the N. end of the needle would 
dip, and in like manner also the arc will be inclined from the vertical 
plane towards the direction of the N. end of the needle. 

If a is to the west, and b east, the inclination will be toward the 
north when the current is passing from a to b ; but with a direction 
of the current from east to west, the north end of the supposed mag- 
netic needle would be on the south side of the arc, and the latter, 
therefore, would incline toward the south. 

By means of this supposed magnetic needle we can, under all cir- 
cumstances, determine in what manner the arc will be affected by 
terrestrial magnetism or either pole of a magnet, or what must be its 
position when placed between the two poles of a horse-shoe magnet. 

If, instead of one of the carbon poles, a magnetic bar is used, so that 
the arc is formed between carbon and steel, the arc rotates around the 
magnetic pole according to the same laws which apply when a mova- 
ble current rotates around a fixed magnet. The first notice in refer- 
ence to this rotation of the arc is given by Walker, in the " Transac- 
tions of the London Electrical Society" from 1837 to 1840.— (Pog. 
Ann., LIY, 514.) De la Rive also has made experiments on the in- 
fluence of magnetism upon the voltaic arc, but in a different way. 
Their description is found in the memoir mentioned already in § 64. 

I shall quote here from De la Rive's memoir literally, in order to 
give a characteristic example of his want of precision in writing, by 
which his papers are frequently rendered obscure, as before men- 
tioned : 

" If two points of soft iron, acting as electrodes, be botb placed 
within a helix formed of thick copper wire of several coils, the voltaic 
arc developed between the two points of iron ceases the moment a 
strong current is passed through the wire of the helices, and reappears 
if this current be arrested before the points have become cold. The 
arc cannot be formed between the two iron points when they are mag- 
netized, whether by the action of the helices or by that of a powerful 



426 EECENT PEOGRESS IN PHYSICS. 

magnet, unless they be brought much nearer to one another, and the 
appearance of the phenomenon is then entirely different. The trans- 
ported particles appear to disengage themselves with difficulty from 
the positive electrode, sparks fly with noise in all directions, while in 
the former case it was a vivid liglit without sparks and without noise, 
accompanied by the transfer of a liquid mass, and this appeared to be 
effected with the greatest ease. It is of little moment with respect to 
the result of the experiment whether the two rods of magnetized iron 
present to that part of their extremities between which the luminous 
arc springs the same magnetic poles or different poles. 

''The positive electrode of iron, when it is strongly magnetized, 
produces, the moment that the voltaic arc is formed between it and a 
negative electrode of whatever nature, a very intense noise, analogous 
to the sharp hissing sound of steam issuing from a locomotive engine. 
This noise ceases simultaneously with the magnetization. 

" For the purpose of better analyzing these different phenomena, 
I placed an electro-magnet of large dimensions and great power in 
such a manner as to enable me to place on each of its poles, or be- 
tween thom, different metals destined to form one of the electrodes 
of the pile, while one point of the same metal, or another substance, 
acted as the other electrode. I have alike employed as electrodes, 
placing them in the same circumstances, two points of the same metal, 
or of different metals. The following are the results which I have 
obtained : A plate of platinum was placed on one of the poles of the 
electro-magnet, and a point of the same metal was placed vertically 
above it ; the voltaic arc was produced between the plate and the 
point, the plate being positive and the point negative. As soon as 
the electro-magnet was charged a sharp hissing was heard. It be- 
came necessary to bring the point nearer to the plate to enable the arc 
to continue, and the bluish circular spot which the platinum plate 
presented became larger than when the experiment was made beyond 
the influence of the electro-magnet. 

t " The plate was made negative, and the point positive. The effect 
was then totally different. The luminous arc no longer maintained 
its vertical direction when the electro-magnet was charged, but took 
an. oblique direction, as if it had been projected outwards towards the 
margin of the plate. ff It was broken incessantly, each time accompa- 
nied by a sharp and sudden noise, similar to the discharge of a Leyden 
jar. The direction in which the luminous arc is projected depends 
upon the direction of the current producing it, as likewise on the po- 
sition of the plate on one or other of the two poles, or between the poles 
of the electro- magnet. A plate and a point of silver, a plate and a 
point of copper, and generally a plate and a point of any other metal, 
provided it be not metal too easily fused, present the same phenomena. 

"Copper, and still more silver, present a remarkable peculiarity. 
Plates of these two metals retain on their surfaces the impression of the 
action that took place in the experiments just described. Thus, when 
the plate is positive, that portion of its surface lying beneath the nega- 
tive point presents a spot in the form of a helix, as if the melted metal 
in this locality had undergone a gyratory motion around a centre,, at the 



RECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 427 

same time that it was uplifted in the shape of a cone towards the 
point. 

The first part of this is clear ; not so the last two paragraphs. The 
passage between f and ft appears to indicate that the oblique direc- 
tion of the arc of light only occurs when the plate is negative and 
the point positive ; but somewhat further on we read that the direc- 
tion in which the luminous arc is projected depends upon that of the 
exciting current. It should, therefore, take place when the plate is 
positive and the point negative. Besides, an obscure allusion to the 
rotation of the arc is found in this passage, but so obscure that one 
not previousl)'' acquainted with the phenomenon could form no idea 
of it from this representation. That the Genevan physicist, in penning 
this passage, actually had this rotation in view is evident from the 
conclusion of the last paragraph. Similar faults frequently occur in 
De la Hive's treatises ; his description rarely gives a clear and intelli- 
gible representation of the phenomenon. It is much to be regretted 
that in this way the results of many a beautiful and difficult experi- 
mental research are only imperfectly presented to those engaged in 
physical studies. 

§ 68. Use of the galvanic light for illumination. — It was to be expected 
that the great intensity of the galvanic carbon light would soon lead 
to the idea of employing it for illumination after its production was 
so much facilitated by the invention of the constant batteries. 

Deleuil several times made public experiments with this kind of 
illumination. At first he illuminated the pavilion of a mansion at 
the Pontneuf, in Paris, with 98 zinc-carbon elements. Acherau made 
similar experiments in the Place dela Concord. — (Dingler's Polytech. 
Journal, vol. 91, p. 324.) 

Though the intensity of the galvanic carbon light is enormous, and 
although a battery of 48 Buusen's elements produces as much light as 
63 common gas barners, yet the use of the galvanic light for public 
illumination appears unfit for practical application for the following 
reasons : 

An immense quantity of light is here emanating from one single 
point, and therefore very strong contrasts between light and shade 
will be produced ; the darkness in the shade will be the more unideasant 
just on account of its contrast to the dazzling light. At any rate, the 
illumination obtained from 63 gas burners, perfectly distributed, will 
be more uniform and agreeable than an equivalent light concentrated 
in one |)oint. 

Another objection to the application of the galvanic carbon light, 
is the difficulty of keeping its intensity uniform for a long time. 

In consequence of the formation of sulphate of zinc the conducting 
power of the fluid decreases so rapidly that the force of the current, 
even in half an hour, becomes considerably weaker than it was at the 
beginning. But, apart from this, the maintenance of the battery is 
extremely expensive, because much more zinc is consumed than the 
current itself requires, and the nitric acid acts destructively upon the 
metallic rings around the carbon cylinders. It is true the disadvan- 
tages of this action of the nitric acid could be avoided by the use of 
Daniell's elements, but then the battery must be considerably enlarged 
to obtain the same effect. 



428 



EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 



Fig. 62. 




In an economical point of view, therefore, the galvanic illumina- 
tion of streets, halls, theatres^, &c., does not appear advantageous. 
But there is yet another difficulty ; the management of the battery 
and of the whole apparatus is too complicated to be confided to such. 
persons as generally have charge of the illumination ; tlie carbon 
points are continually changing, and their position, therefore, must 
be continually regulated in order to keep the light uniform and pre- 
vent its extinction. It is difficult to accomplish this regulation by 
mechanical means, though different contrivances have been proposed 
for the purpose, Le Molt, for instance, obtained a patent in England, 
in 1848, for an apparatus for galvanic illumination, in which carbon 
disks, with the form represented in fig. 62, take the place 
of the points. Two of these disks are placed with their 
sharp edges opposite each other ; their axes rotate uni- 
formly by means of clock work, and their distances are 
regulated by a metallic spring. 

It is therefore scarcely to be expected that the applica- 
tion of galvanism to public illumination will have any 
practical success. But Donne and Foucault have obtained very 
favorable results from their experiments, in which the galvanic carbon 
light was substituted for the incandescent lime in the so called gas 
microscope. 

A tolerably complete description of the photo-electric microscope of 
Donne and Foucault maybe found in the 4th edition of Pouillet, Ele- 
ments de Physique Experimentale, &c., vol. II, pp. *746. We can 
here only indicate the most essential parts of the apparatus. The 
luminous arc is produced between sticks of carbon cut from the hard 

carbon of gas retorts ; they are made 

^''^s-G3. jj2 the shape represented in fig. 63, the 

negative electrode being pointed and 

n l» the positive blunt. These carbon pieces 

^^^^^H^^^SB- ^^^^^M apg gQ }^gl(j tl^r^^ their position can 

easily be regulated. 
A general idea of the arrangement of the illuminating apparatus 

of this microscope may be gathered from the diagram fig. 64. a is a 

concave mirror of an aperture of about 
i decimetre, and a radius of 1.6 de- 
cimetre. The carbon light is at b, a 
little nearer to the mirror than c, the 
centre of its curvature, and somewhat 
higher, so that the rays emanating 
from b are collecl'ed at /, v/here the 
ininute object to be magnified is in- 
tensely illuminated. The system of 

lens through which the magnified 

image of the object is thrown upon a 

screen 4 to 5 metres distant is precisely the same as in the solar 

microscope. 

To diminish the great heat at /, a vessel is placed between the 

mirror and b, the sides of which are made of polished plate glass; it 

it is filled with a solution of alum by which a great part of the calo- 



Fig. 64. 




EECENT PROGRESS IN PHYSICS, 429 

rific rays is absorbed witbout sensibly lessening tbe intensity of tbe 
ligbt. 

The image of tbe arc of ligbt itself, as produced at/ by tbe concave 
mirror, may be taken as tbe object to be magnified tbrougb tbe lens, but 
then tbe magnifying power must be lower. Thus, a highly magnified 
image of the arc of light is obtained I upon the white screen, and all 
the phenomena accompanying it can be observed with ease. 

But the magnified image of tbe galvanic arc of ligbt can also be 
produced by much simpler means ; it has only to be brought directly 
near tbe focus of a lens of 1 to 3 centimetre focal distance. Of course, 
care must be taken that the carbon light is so inclosed that no light 
falls upon tbe screen, except that which passes through the lens. 

§ 69. Galvanic illumination of mines. — The remarks on galvanic 
illumination in general are also applicable to the proposal to illumi- 
nate mines by the light produced by means of galvanism ; there is 
scarcely much practical success to be expected. Because the galvanic 
carbon light can be produced in a' vacuum and even under water. 
Boussingault believed that it could be used instead of Davy's safety 
lamp in mines where inflammable gases make open lamps dangerous. 
But in mines an intense light at any one place is never wanted, but 
a feeble one at many difierent places. The same objection is to be 
made to De la Rive's proposal to pass in a hermetically closed glass 
balloon the positive current from an upright carbon cylinder to a me- 
tallic one placed vertically above it. — (Dingler's Polyt. Journal, 
XCVIII, p. 153, and 232 ; Moniteur industr., 1845, No. 961 & 965.) 

Grove proposed, instead' of the carbon light, the ignition of a pla- 
tinum wire by galvanism in a hermetically closed glass vessel. — 
(Dingler's Polyte'cbnic Journal, XCIX, p. 201 ; Phil. Magazine, Dec, 
1845, p. 442.) He gives to the wire the form of a spiral, and thus 
employs a greater length of it in a smaller space ; and this arrange- 
ment has the further advantage that on account of the less rapid cool- 
ing the coiled wire is more intensely heated with an equal force of 
current than the same wire when extended in a straight line. 

Grove does not give any details as to the length and diameter of 
tbe wire used, or of the precise construction of the spiral. With two 
to three constant elements a uniform light was obtained during several 
hours. Grove experimented (and read) by this light ; but this notice 
gives only a very imperfect idea of the illuminating power of the 
apparatus. In mines this light will probably be sufficient, and the 
proposition therefore appears to be a more practical one than the ap- 
plication of the carbon light, especially on account of the small 
number of constant elements required for tbe purpose. But still , even 
this apparatus will be more expensive and complicated than Davy's 
safety lamp, and consequently its general introduction into use is 
scarcely to be expected. 

King uses, instead of tbe platinum spiral, a strip of very thin pla- 
tinum foil,, and makes it incandescent by the galvanic current. — 
(London Journal of Arts, June, 1846, p. 348 ; Dingler's Polytechnic 
Journal, CI, p. 12.) 

§ 70. Tlie galvanic sparJc. — Most of the observers who have experi- 
mented with .the galvanic arc have noticed that the two poles must first 



430 RECENT PEOGRESG IN PHYSICS, 

"be brought into contact before the current can be produced. After 
the carbon points have once been in contact, they may be separated 
from each other and then the luminous arc is formed. The arc also 
can be produced by discharging the spark of a Leyden jar between the 
carbon points, instead of bringing them into contact, as has been 
observed by Daniell, (Phil. Trans., 1839, 89 ; Pog. Ann. LX, 312,) 
and previously by Sturgeon. — (Ann. of Electr., VIII, 507 ; Pog. Ann. 
XLIX, 122.) The latter believes that this experiment originated 
with Herschel. The formation of the current in this case is evidently 
caused by conducting particles carried from one pole to the other by 
the spark. 

Even the powerful batteries which have been u.^ed to produce the 
luminous arc have not yet sufficient tension to effect the passage of a 
spark through the smallest distance. 

Jacobi found by accurate measurement that the poles of a battery 
of 12 zinc-platinum elements could be brought to within 0.00005 inch 
of each other without a spark passing. — (Bulletin of the Petersburgh 
Academy; Pog. Ann., XLIV, 633.) 

Gasf-iot obtained distinct sparks from his great water batterv. — 
(Phil. Trans , f. 1844, pt. I, pp. 39 ; Pog. Ann , LXV, 476.) this 
remarkable battery consisted of 3,520 glass tumblers, each containing 
a zinc rod and a copper cylinder. They were charged with rain 
water. The tumblers were distributed upon 44 oaken boards, every 
11 of which were combined in a stand, similar to the shelves of a book 
case, and were supported by four strong pillars. Especial care was 
taken to secure perfect insulation, the glasses were varnished and 
placed upon glass plates, and these as well as the boards were in like 
manner covered with varnish. 

It might be expected that this battery, when the circuit was unclosed, 
should exliibit in a decided manner the phenomenon of tension, and, 
in fact, the leaves of a gold leaf electroscope diverged already, when 
yet at a distance of 2 or 3 inches from one of the poles. 

As soon, however, as the battery was closed, all signs of tension 
disappeared. When the poles of the battery were brought within 
0.02 inch of each other sparks continually passed between them. lu 
one case this phenomenon continued day and night for five weeks 
without interruption. Several months after its constructiou the 
battery showed no signs of decrease in strength. 

fctince the ordinary galvanic batteries have no striking distance at 
all, it is evident that the appearance of light observed in opening and 
closing even simple batteries, must be an entirely different phenomenon 
from that of the common electric spark. 

In the memoir just mentioned, Jacobi states it as his opinion that 
the usual galvanic spark is a phenomenon of ignition and combustion ; 
the extremely fine points which first come into contact and permit the 
conduction of the current, become incandescent and burn, and thus pro- 
duce, according to Jacobi's opinion, the phenomenon of light. There 
is no doubt that with more vivid sparks such ignition and combustion 
really do occur, but then the phenomenon is no longer a simple one ; ' 
in closing and opening a battery the spark is observed under circum- 
stances which make ignition and combustion very improbable. 



REGENT PEOGKESS IN PHYSICS. 431 

Neef has shown that this appearance of light, when occurring 
simply without the action of secondarj^ currents, is neither a common 
electric spark, viz., a spark j)a.ssing from one pole to the other, nor 
can it be attributed to a combustion of metal. — (P. A. LXVI, 414.) 

In his so called magnet electrometer, as described in the 3d edition 
of my ^' Lehi'buch der PJiysik," vol. II, p. 251, a continual closing 
and breaking of the current takes place at c which is accompanied by 
a corresponding ap^^earance of the light. But in this form of the 
apparatus the observation of the phenomenon is rendered, difficult by 
the width of the hammer which strikes the platinum plate. In a very 
convenient modification of this apparatus by Desaga_, in Heidelberg, 
which will be described hereaiter, a platinum point is substituted for 
the hammer, so that the contact is made and broken in rapid alterna- 
tion between a platinum point and plate. 

When the apparatus is in action, light is observed, at the place of 
separation, which, on account of the rapidity of the oscillation, seems 
to be contiDuous. To the naked eye, when protected from the day- 
light, the light appears violet, whether the positive current pass from 
the point to the plate or inversely ; but the point of light is so ex- 
tremely small that Neef was induced to examine the phenom.enon with 
the microscope. By the aid of this instrument he found that the light 
always a,ppears at the negative pole only. 

The;^e observations are best made with a microscope which magnifies 
25 to 50 times, which permits the objective to be removed to at least 1^ 
inch from the point of light. 

When the positive current passes from the plate to the point, the 
latter appears enveloped in violet light, while the plate remains en- 
tirely dark. 

At the lowest extremity of the point within the continuous violet 
light there appear single, extremely fine, dots of dazzling white light 
with a sort of swarming motion ; and tov/ards the upper extremity of 
the violet envelope there is also seen light of the same color but of 
much greater intensity, flashing out, and yet no passage to the other 
pole could be observed. The last mentioned flashing gradually dis- 
appears as the force of the current decreases. 

When the current passes in the opposite direction, and the point, con- 
sequently, is positive, it remains quite dark and the violet light is 
spread upon the plate around the point of nearest approach. In this 
case, too, there is no spark, strictly so called, to be observed, and the 
uniform violet glimmering light can scarcely be attributed to a com- 
bustion of the platinum. Besides, Neef also especially remarks that 
this phenomenon of light takes place at the negative pole only, while 
the greatest heat is always developed at the positive pole. 



CONTENTS. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Page. 

Letter from the Secretary to Congress 3 

Letter from the Chancellor and Secretary 4 

Officers and Regents of the Institution 5 

Members ex ofjtdo and Honorary members of the Instltntion 6 

Programme of organization 7 

Report of Professor Henry for 1857 13 

Report of Professor Baird, Assistant Secretary 38 

List of Meteorological Stations and Observers 55 

Report of the Executive Committee , 66 

Report of the Building Committee 71 

Journal of the Board of Regents from March 16, 1857, to May 19, 1858 72 

APPENDIX. 

Lectures. — On " Coal" By Prof. Jos. Le Covte 119 

On the " Vastness of the Visible Creation." By Prof. S. Alexander. . 169 

Meteorology. — Colonia Tovar, Venezuela. By A. Fendler - 179 

Sacramento, California. By Dr. T. M. Logan 283 

On the best hours of daily observation to find the mean tempera- 
ture of the year By Prof. C. Dewey 310 

Observations and results in the District of Columbia. By J. Wiss- 

NER . . 317 

Observations on Natural Phenomena. By Stillman Masterman. 323 
Report on recent progress in Physics. By Prof. J. Miller: 

Electricity 333 

Galvanism 394 

28 s 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Agassiz, L., Natural History of the United States 22 

Albany Academy, Henry's Telegraphic Experiments in 96, 105 

Alexander, Prof. S., Lecture on the Vastness of the Visible Creation 169 

Ampere's Discovery 100 

Appendix to the Keport, Remarks concerning 20 

Appropriations for 1 858 63 

Arago and Davy's Experiments 100 

Associitions for Study of Natural History, &c 25, 26 

Astronomy, General views of 119 

Aurora Borealis, Observations of 327 

Bailey, Professor J. W., Resolutions respecting 73 

Baird, S. F., Report on Publications, Exchaoges, and Museum 38 

Bank Note Counterfeiting Investigation 30 

Barlow's Investigation _ 104 

Barometer, Hourly observations - 285 

Barometer, Half hourly observations 206,255,257,258,259,260,261,282 

Bi-sulphuret of Carbon iuvestigation 30 

Botany of Venezuela, South America 186,222 

Bowen, Rev. T. J., Grammar and Dictionary of Yoruba 18 

Brewer, Dr. T. M , Memoir on Oology 18 

Building Committee, Report of 71 

Caracas, Meteorological observations at 279 

Cass, Lewis, Letter relative to Miss Contaxaki's present 78 

Chase, Hon. S. P., Statement of 90 

Classical Bouquet from Miss Contaxaki 32 

Climate of California 283,300 

Coal, Lectures on, by Prof. Jos. Le Conte 119 

Collections of the Exploring Expedition 14 

Colonia Tovar, Venezuela, Meteorology of 179 

Communication from Prof. Henry relative to Mr. Morse 85 

Contaxaki, Miss, Present from 32,77,79 

Copyright books 33 

Corn and Maize Grinders in Venezuela 219 

Cow Trees in Venezuela 221 

Davis, Captain C. H., Translation of Gauss 21 

Deposition of Joseph Henry in telegraph suit 107 

Dewey, Professor Chester, On the best hours of daily observation 310 

Diptera, Catalogue of 24 

District of Columbia, Meteorology of 317 

Donations to Museum during 1857 » 50 

Dying Gladiator, Statue of 35 



436 INDEX. 

Page . 

Electricity, Miiller's report on 333 

The Leyden Jar, and effects of the discharge 323 

Electrical Spark and Brush 367 

Electrical Odor 387 

Entomology, Study of 25 

Estimates of Appropriations for 1858 63 

Executive Committee, Eeport of 66 

Exchanges, System, and Operations 28,33,39,40,41,42,43,44 

Expeditions of Government 46,47,48 

Expenditures during 1857 - 67 

Explorations 29 

Felton, Prof. C. C, Eeport on the Present of Miss Contaxaki 79 

Fendler, A , Meteorology of Colonia Tovar, South America 179 

Fossils of South Carolina 21 

Gale, Dr. L. D., Letter of April 7, la56, relative to Morse's Invention ' 92 

Gale, Dr. L. D , letter of Aug. 7, 1857, relative to his interest in Morse's Telegraph 93 

Gallery of Art, Additions to 35 

Galvanism, Report on 394 

Gauss, Theory of the Motion of the Heavenly Bodies 21 

Geology, General Views of 119 

Gibbs & Genth, Researches and Memoir, by .., 16 

Goddard, G. H., Meteorological Observations 300 

Guyot, A., Meteorological and Physical Tables 24 

Half-hourly Barometrical Observations 206, 2(J8, 255,2.56,257,258,259,260,261,282 

Hall, Prof James, Letter of January 19, 1856, relative to Henry's Discoveries and 

Experiments in 1832 _ c.. 96 

Hall, Prof. James, Revision of Troost's Memoir, by 24 

Hare, Dr. R<jbert, Resolutions relative to the death of 84 

Harvey, Dr. W. H., Memoir on Algse 17 

Henry, Prof , Communication relative to Mr. Morse 85 

Deposition in Telegraph case 107 

Experiments by - 101, 102 

Report of Committee on Communication of 88 

History of the Telegraph 99 

Hilgard, Dr. E. M , Experiments by 30 

Holmes, F. S., and M. Tuomey, on the Fossils of S. C 22 

Honorary Members of the Institution 6 

Indian Portraits, Stanley's Gallery 36, 82 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents 72 

Kane, Dr. E. K., Resolutions respecting 74 

Laboratory 30 

Le Conte, Prof Jos., Lectures on Coal 119 

Lectures during season 1657—8 36, 37 

Lectures on Coal, by Prof. Jos. Le Conte 119 

Lecture on the Vastness of the Visible Creation, by Prof S. Alexander 169 

Letter of the Secretary to Congress - 3 

Library, Donations received 31 

Library, New Arrangements in 31 



INDEX. 437 

Page. 

Little &. Brown, Publications by 21 

Logan, Dr. Thomas -M., Meteorology of California -- - 283 

Magnetic Observations in Mexico 29 

Magnetic Self-registering Apparatus - 30 

Marine Algae, Descriptions of - 18 

Mason, Hon. Charles, Letter of March 31, 1856, relative to extension of Morse's 

Patent 97 

Masterman, S., Observations on Natural Phenomena 323 

Khooting Stars 324 

Aurora 327 

Zodiacal Light 332 

Meech, L. W., Researches and Memoir, by 15 

Meteorological f^tations and Observers in 1857 - 5o 

Meteorological Tables, by J Wissner 317 

Meteorology, Professor Dewey on the best Huurs of Observation - 310 

Meteorology of Caracas 27J 

Meteorology of Colonia Tovar, South America 1'" 

Meteorology of Sacramento, California 283,300 

Meteorology, Smithsonian i^y8tem described 26, 27 

Morse, Prof. S. F B., Communication from Prof. Henrv relative to 85 

Morse, Prof. S. F. B , Report of Commiltee on article of 83 

Miiller, Ban.n, Magnetic Observations in Mexico -- 29 

Miiller, Prof. John, Report on Electricity 333 

Report on Galvanism - - 394 

Museum, Condition in January, ]858 46,49 

List of Donations to 5" 

Objects of.. ^^ 

Oersted's discovery "*- 

Officers of the Institution ** 

Oology, Work on 18 

Ozone - — 387 

Programme of Organization 7 

Publications of the Institution 15,3b 

Rain in Venezuela 209, 253 

Redfield, \Vm. C, Resolutions respecting 74 

Regents, Proceedings of 72 

Report of Committee en Purchase of Stanley's Indian Gallery 82 

Report of Prof. Henry for 1857 13 

Report of Special Committee on Prof. Henry's Communication relative to Morse.. . 88 

Report of the Building Committee 71 

Report of the Executive Committee 6G 

Researches 29, 34 

Resolutions of the Regents, Jan. 15, 1855 - 12 

Resolutions of Board of Regents relative to Prof. Henry 98 

Resolutions relative to Prof Bailey, Dr. Kane, and Mr. Redfield 73,74 

Dr. Hare 84 

Rankle, J. D., Tables by 17 

Sacken, Baron Osten, Catalogue of the Diptera 24 



438 INDEX. 

Page. 

Sacramento, Cal., Meteorology 283,300 

Schaeffer, Prof. G. C, Translatioa of Miiller on Electricity 333 

on Galvanism 394 

Sculptured Rocks in Venezuela 218 

Shooting Stars, Observations of - 324 

Smicbson's personal effects 34 

Spence, C. S. , Letter relative to Miss Contaxaki's present 78 

Stanley Collection of Indian Portraits - - 36 

Stanley, J. M., Letter offering Indian Gallery for sale 75 

Stanley Gallery, Report on purchase of 82 

Statement of Prof Henry in relation to the history of the Telegraph 99 

Stillwater, Minnesota, Observations at 325,327 

Sturgeon's Experiments 101 

Tables, Meteorological and Physical 24 

Taney, Hon. E. B., Letter to the Board of Regents 72 

Statement of 88 

Telegraph, History of the 99 

Telegraphic Reports of the Weather 26 

Thermometer, Hourly Observations 290 

Troost, Dr. G, Memoir on Crinoidea 23 

Tuomey, M. &F S. Holmes, on the Fossils of S. C 22 

Vastness of the Visible Creation, Lecture on 169 

Walker, Sears C, Account of interview with Morse and Henry 94 

Washington, D. C, Meteorological Tables 317 

Weld, Maine, Observations at 323,327,332 

Wissner, J., Meteorological Tables by 317 

Yoruba Grammar and Dictionary 18 

Yoruba, the Country and Language 19 

" Zamang," or enormous Tree in Venezuela 221 

Zodiacal Light, Observations on 332 




<i 



~c 



m± 



-^ -^A 



'/-r^ 



^imm-- 



