SJ*^vt:::^- 






mli 



^S: <**^ 









^;j\«,iK. 



i^,c«*»iL<I^<': 









<r:-:<^- <^i 






^<r «*<:: 



r^ ""<i.-.'C' ^ <<c <<- ■ j^-^^^>'^ -..■ 









''«Sc 




<^ 






=:><£? 


-.-^^ 






:<S-< 


c: 




^cr 


<£■ 




! 



f^cfl<c:xi=^"'':_. 



?..iKKl^-&_ 



5^ <£V'.>l^Cr;^=t--~ " 















EI<Z 



_ <3 f :- 






<Tc"-c<r_' 






t <: 






2_ <?!>«^'. . 

cc:<sz ' 






SC ■ 









Z.'-' O CO 

Z ci, cd' 

■ CS.«C 

: r C .<: CT 









<2c-c^;i' <E< d 






f « 



-< C5 ■■<::• 

'L end 






<I2 etc 



drCL ' <• '*c:'<' 



■dit-C- 






',«:"<' ^7' "d "^ ^' ' °d'' 









«a:*: 















^^oceyc ,«::: 






,<?y««c: 



<ii < d 



<rl- <-.j;: 



Z:«i«d, ^ <:■. 
_:-ocd .<;' 
_<r.d «cr'" <<' 

/'■'^e:- d' C:C«CJ 

vc_ -d: ■ «:k<«i.-; 

d dic'ac:.:'. <■■ 
■dL;- d<^^;:^ 









c: <^ 















c <X 






4C<<: 



■^ .Oct c <SC" f 






^c <^^ 












d^ ■ ' . 












^ <rc?<;<rv:- ■ x < 
Clicks: <^ ^^x< 

.<c' ckr<- «3:_, <*^S < ■ 



.«£*.< 



C-<:<;^:<X CJvS' 



<::s:c 



'^vCcCT- €>■<_ 

CI c c 



^;C-C 



a,-'C. 

i<t<'c; 

cc-^-c_ 

cs^c: 
C«::sC 









c^z d t 



4C. 

CTree 'S^-*^ 






. d«<? 

c_t<a:- 



Cicc:, 



<c c 

C/C 

C'C- 

c'C 






d:«c 



( fd « 









■ «s<c^ 



"■C's-'C 

^^x:i^ 9 c 

d<^«^ "^ "^ 

-C?c d^OC 
dec 



■-,:<:«»dd 



c 'C:'<5:c.. 



CC <1..«::0:'C ■ 
<!«• .<:i «c.c c 
O'-Ci: CC; c 

d ' «!■ «c d c; - ; 

C!c< c: .CC c :^' 
cicv <: -CC ei> 

0< c <- <x;. c ■- ' 
cr«c en ■<:"c <^ 
€Z€c <:i <^^ 

Occ <C COX ' 

dec ^<^t5 ' 

dCC «OC£C • 

<rcc <::ccc 

c d <rc ^ -^^ c 

r dcc ^'LvC 

-- e"<r^ <r="c <- 



■/c:€<s>--<r 

dc<s-; d 



.; <:. c c 

d t C «- 

- ccc: 

;"<1/-Cd<«l 
d<C«: 



ceeCd . <?-<-- 
<«-£•' <l;- »;- "^ 

«£?*<-d; ^' ' 
CSv:jC *®P^ 

<s^'.c ««IS;^ 

c d «s|C> 

■^ . c c Clad' 
■cdC«<l<s 



<:^cic:<33:c 






/^VV d 



cS.ci:; ^%- .-,<; d<s: 



-^^^ 



C5r o- ^ 



jc: d:t * 

-_-x d 

^[■«^dd.c^ 

- dr '. <! 



•- d d«--d ^:< c <?. 
■d -<2d ^ ^\ 
d c«:cr dc ;G-< 

-° c 'd. <d; "^ -^'' ^ 



.aa c= 



^ C';<c 

C<-dc^ 

Ct<K<2 



dr cc: ^c: 



, , d: «« 

d iTja 



^ '<i. ^-^^. d '«:d/^ 



5.1: id.<':;<d- '-S=i:; . ^^: cd^** ' 



"'-^^•■^^psr t^» 










/ 



INTRODUCTION. 



I'he Smithsonian Institution has attained a world-wide reputation, and ils 
influence and importance are constantly extending. Its publications are found 
not only in the public libraries of our own land, but ako in those of every other 
civilized country. Its correspondents include some of the most distinguished 
cultivators of science of the present day, and it is referred to as a center of infor- 
mation by those who are interested in the pursuit of knowledge. 

Many persons, however, who visit Washington, are but imperfectly acquainted 
with the history of Smithson, the great object he had in view, the plans adopted 
to carry out his intentions, and the results already obtained. It is for the pur- 
pose of furnishing more definite information on these points thai this work has 
been compiled, from the annual reports of the Secretary, Professoi Henry, to the 
Board of Regents, and other authentic sources. 



(i 



r^ 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 




Il]c rot!i]5eh 



James Smithson, the foaiidei 
of the Institution which bears his 
name and will perpetuate his mem- 
ory, was a native of London, Eng- 
hind. In his will he states that 
he was the son of Hugh, first L)uke 
of Northumberland, and Eliza- 
beth, heiress of the Ilungerfords, 
of Audley, and niece of Charles 
the Proud, Duke of Somerset. He 
was educated at Oxford, where he 
took an honorary degree in 1786. 
He went under the name of James 
Lewis 3Iacie until a few years after 
he had left the university, when 
he took that of Smithson, the 
fomily name of the Nnrthumberlands. He does not appear to have had any 
fixed home in England, but travelled much on the continent, occasionally staying 
a year or two in Paris, Berlin, Florence, etc. He died at Genoa, in 1828, at an 
advanced age. He is said by Sir Davies Gilbert, President of the Royal Society, 
fo have rivalled the most expert chemists in minute analysis; and, as an instanop 
of his skill, it is mentioned that, happening to observe a tear gliding down a 
lady's cheek, he endeavored to catch it on a crystal vessel; that half of the drop 
escaped, but having preserved the other half, he submitted it to close analysis, 
and discovered in it several salts. He contributed a number of valuable papers 
to the Koyal Society, and also to the Annals of Philosophy, on chemistry, 
mineralogy, and geology. His scientific reputation was founded on these 
branches, though from his writings he appears to have studied and reflected upon 
almost every department of knowledge. He was of a sensitive, retiring disposi- 
tion ; was never married — appeared ambitious of making a name for himself, 
t 3 



4 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

either by his own researches or by founding an institution for the promotion of 
science. He declared, in writing, that though the best blood of England flowed 
in his veins, this availed him not, for his name would live in the memory of man 
when the titles of the Northumberlands and Percies were extinct or forgotten. 
He was cosmopolitan in his views, and affirmed that the man of science is of no 
country — the world is his country, and all men his countrymen. He proposed 
at one time to leave his money to the lloyal Society of London, for the promotion 
of science, but on account of a misunderstanding with the council of the Society 
he changed his mind, and left it to his nephew, and in case of the death of thia 
relative, to the United States, to found the Institution which now bears his name. 

The original amount received from the bequest was $.515,109 ; but from a res- 
iduary legacy, savings of interest, &c.,the fund has been increased to $050,000 
now in the Treasury of the United States and yielding six per cent, interest. 
The Government of the United States accepted the bequest, or in other words, 
accepted the office of trustee, and the Hon. Richard Rush, of Pennsylvania, was 
charged with the duty of prosecuting the claim. He remained in attendance on 
the English courts until the money was awarded to him. He brought it over in 
sovereigns, deposited it in the Mint of the United States, where it was recoined 
into American eagles, thus becoming a part of the currency of the country. 

At the time of the passing of the act establishing the Institution, in 1840, 
tne sum of S242,000 had accrued in interest, and this the Regents were authorized 
to expend on a building. But, instead of appropriating this sum immediately to 
this purpose, they put it at interest, and deferred the completion of the building 
for several years, until over $100,000 should be accumulated, the income of 
which might defray the expenses of keeping the building, and the greater portion 
of the income of the original bequest be devoted to the objects for which it was 
designed. This policy has been rigidly adhered to, and notwithstanding an 
ex|5endituro of $450,000 on the building, the collection of a largo library 
and museum, and the publication of many volumes of original researches, the 
bequest of Smithson is not only undiminished, but has increased more than a 
hundred thousand dollars. 

Il]e f\i{^ of 0irc(^^)i;!j|iio^. 

The bequest, in the language of the testator, was " to found at Washington an 
establishment, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, for the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge among men." According to this, the Government of the 
United States is merely a trustee. The bequest is for the henejii of minkind, and 
any plan which does not recognize this provision of the will would be illiberal and 
unjust. The Institution must bear and perpetuate the name of its founder, and 
hence its operations are kept distinct from those of the General Government, and 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 5 

all the gi)od which results from the expenditure of the funds is accredited to the 
name of Smithson. 

It will be observed that the object of the bequest is twofold — first, to increase, 
and, second, to diffuse, knowledge among men. These two objects are entirely 
separate and distinct, and to view the case understandingly the one must not be 
confounded with the other. The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge 
by the addition of new truths, and the second, to disseminate knowledge thus 
enlarged among men. This distinction is readily acknowledged by men of science, 
and in Europe different classes of scientific and other societies are founded upon 
it. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge, 
and hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. Smithson was well 
aware that knowledge should not be viewed as existing in isolated parts, but as a 
whole, each portion of which throws light on all the others, and that the ten- 
dency of all is to improve the human mind, and to give it new sources of power 
and enjoyment. A prevalent idea, however, in relation to the will is, that the 
money was intended exclusively for the diffusion of useful or immediately practi- 
cal knowledge among the inhabitants of this country, but it contains nothing 
from which such an inference can be drawn. All knowledge is useful, and the 
higher the more important. From the enunciation of a single scientific truth 
may flow a hundred inventions, and the more abstract the truth the more im- 
f.ortant the deductions. To effect the greatest good, the organization of the In- 
stitution should be such as to produce results which could not be attained by 
other means, and inasmuch as the bequest is for men in general, all merely local 
expenditures are inconsistent with the will. These were the views expressed by the 
Secretary, Professor Henry, and constantly advocated by him. They were not en- 
tertained, however, by many, and consequently difficulties have been encountered 
in carrying them out. A number of literary men thought that a great library should 
be founded at Washington, and all the money expended on it; others considered a 
mv.seum the proper object; and another class thought the income should be de- 
voted to the delivery of lectures throughout the country ; while still another was 
of opinion that popular tracts should be published and distributed amongst the 
million. But all these views were advanced without a proper examination of the 
will, or a due consideration of the smallness of the income. The act of Congress 
directed the formation of a library, a museum, a gallery of art, lectures, and a 
building on a liberal scale to accommodate these objects. One clause, however, 
gave the Regents the power, after the foregoing objects were provided for, to 
expend the remainder of the income in any way they might think fit for carrying 
out the design of the testator. The plan they have adopted is to stimulate al) 
persons in this country capable of advancing knowledge by original research to 
labor in this line ; to induce them to send their results to the Institution for 
examination and publication; and to assist all persons engaged in originaJ 
investigations, as far as its means will allow; also to institute, at the ex 
pense and under the direction of the Institution, particular researches. 



6 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

An act of Congress, dated August 10, 1846, provides " that the President and 
Vice-President of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Postmaster 
General, the Attorney General, the Chief Justice, and the Commissioner of the 
Patent Office of the United States, and the Mayor of the City of Washington, 
during the time for which they shall hold their respective offices, and such other 
persons as they may elect as honorary members, be and they are hereby constituted 
an ' establishment,' by the name of the ' Smithsonian Institution," for the in- 
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

The law also provides for a " Board of Regents," to be composed of the Vice- 
President of the United States and the Mayor of the City of Washington, during 
the time for which they shall hold their respective offices, three members of the 
Senate and three members of the House of Representatives, together with six 
other persons, other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be members of 
the National Institute, in the City of Washington, and resident in the 5aid city ; 
and the other four shall be inhabitants of othCr States, and no two of them from 
the same State. 

The Establishment exercises general supervision over the affairs of the Institu- 
tion. 

The Board of Regents conducts the business of the Institution, and makes 
annual reports to Congress. , 

The Secretary of the Institution is elected by the Board. His duty is to take 
charge of the building and property, discharge the duty of librarian, keeper of 
the museum, etc., and has power, by consent of the Regents, to employ assist- 
ants. 

All laws for the protection of public property in Washington apply to the lauJs^ 
Duildinjrs, and other property of the Institution. 




MBTEOKITE FROM COAHrlLA, JIEXICO. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Il]e §ihicii|i*e. 



The Smithsonian building stands on a part of a tract of public land dcnora. 
inated " the Mall," and the grounds extend from Seventh to Twelfth streets, east and 
west, and from the canal to B street, north and south, comprising about fifty-two 
acres. The center of the building is directly opposite Tenth street, and the site 
is about twenty feet above the average level of Pennsylvania avenue. 

The style of architecture is that of the last half of the twelfth century, the latest 
variety of the rounded style, as it is found immediately anterior to its merging into 
the early aothic, and is known as the Norman, the Lombard, or Romanesque. The 
semi-circular arch, stilted, is employed throughout— in doors, windows, and other 

openings. 

It is the first edifice in the style of the twelfth century, and of a character not 

ecclesiastical, ever erected in this country. 

The main building has in the center of its north front two towers, of which 
the higher reaches an elevation of about 150 feet. On the south front is a 

massive tower 37 feet 
square and 91 feet high. 
On the northeast corner 
stands a double companile 
tower, 17 feet square and 
117 feet high; at the 
southwest corner an oc- 
tagonal tower, in which is 
a spiral stair case. There 
are nine towers in all. 

The entire kngth of 
the building, from east to 
west, is 447 feet. Its 
greatest breadth is 160 
feet. The east wing is 
82 by 52 feet, and 42^ 
feet high to the top of its 
battlement; the west 
wing, including its pro- 
jecting apsis, is 84 feet 
by 40, and 38 feet high, 
and each of the connect- 
ing ranges, including its 
cloister, is 60 feet by 49 
The main building is 20h 
feet by 57, and, to the 
top of the corbel course, 
58 feet high. 

NORTH CENTRAL T0WIR9. o 




8 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The building is erected in a very substantial manner. The founaati^n walls 
under the main central towers are 12 feet thick at bottom, gradually diminishing 
to five feet six inches at the surface of the ground, and are sunk eight feet deep. 
The thickness of the walls of the main building above the water table is two feet 
and-a-half in the first story, and two feet in the second, exclusive of buttresses, 
corbel courses, &c The walls of the wings are two feet thick ; of the central towers 
three feet and a half thick in the first story, diminishing to two feet in the highest 
story. The roofs are slated. The face of the building is finished in ashlar, laid 
in courses from 10 to 15 inches in height, and having an average bed of nine 
inches. 

The material employed is a lilac gray variety of freestone, found in the new red 
sandstone formation where it crosses the Potomac, near the mouth of Seneca 
Creek, one of its tributaries, and about twenty -three miles above Washington. 
When first quarried it is comparatively soft, working freely before the chisel and 
hammer ; but by exposure it gradually indurates, and ultimately acquires tough- 
ness and consistency, that not only enables it to resist the changes of the atmos- 
phere, but even the most severe mechanical wear and tear. 

The corner-stone of the building was laid with Masonic ceremonies, on the first 
of May, 1847, in the presence of President Polk, his Cabinet, and an immense 
concourse of citizens and strangers. The Grand Master of Masons, who performed 
the ceremony, wore the apron presented by the Grand Lodge of France to Wash- 
ington, through La Fayette, and used the gavel employed by Washington when 
he laid the first corner-stone of the Capitol of the United States. An oration was 
delivered by the Hon. George Mifflin Dallas, the first Chancellor of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and now United States Minister to Great Britain. In the course of his 
remarks Mr. Dallas said : " When, at no distant day, I trust, it shall be seen 
that within the walls of this building the truths of nature are forced by persever. 
ing researches from their hidden recesses, mingled with the stock already hoarded 
by genius and industry, and thence profusely scattered, by gratuitous lectures or 
publications, for the benefit of all — when it shall be seen that here universal 
science finds food, implements, and a tribune — art her spring to invention, her 
studio, and her models ; and both shall have throngs of disciples from the ranks 
of our people, emulous for enlightenment, or eager to assist — then the condition of 
our legacy will have been performed, and the wide philanthropy of Smithson have 
achieved its aim." 

The design, by James Renwick, Jr., of New York, consists of a main center 
building, two stories high, and two wings, connected by intervening ranges; each 
of these latter having, on the north or principal front, a cloister, with open 
stone screen. 

The first story of the main building consists of one large room, 200 feet by 50, 
and 25 feet high, the ceiling of which is supported by two rows of columns ex- 
lending the whole length ; at the middle of the space corresponding to the prin- 
cipal entrances are two wing walls, by which, with the addition of screens, the 
whole space may be divided into two large rooms, with a hall extending across. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 9 



Il)e Jiblr^i^l). 



Although the act of Congress directed that provision should be made for the 
accommodation of a library, on a liberal scale, it was soon seen, after the organi- 
'.ation of the Institution, that it would be impossible, from the income which could 
be devoted to it, to establish a first-class general library. Even had this been 
practicable, it would still have seemed superfluous to do so in the very v.cinity of 
the miscellaneous library of Congress, which is every year increasing in extent 
under the liberal appropriations which are annually made for the purchase of books. 
It was therefore deemed preferable, and more consonant with the purposes of the 
Institution, to form a special library, which might constitute, as it were, a supple- 
ment to the library of Congress, and consist, for the most part, of complete sets 
of the proceedings and transactions of all the learned societies in the world, and 
of other serials essential for reference by students specially engaged in original 
scientific research. The efforts of the Institution to carry out this plan, which 
has since been sanctioned by Congress, have been eminently successful. Princi- 
pally through exchanges, and occasionally by purchase, a more complete collection 
of the works above mentioned has been procured than is to be found in any 
library of the United States, or is easily met with even in Europe. The 
Institution has been assisted in making this collection by the liberality of many 
of the older libraries of the eastern continent, which, on application, have furnished 
from their duplicates volumes and even whole sets to complete series of works long 
since out of print, and which, in some cases, could not have been obtained through 
any other means. The Library is also quite rich in monographic or special trea- 
tises in the physical and natural sciences, lacking as yet, it is true, some of the 
more expensive volumes, but still affording the means of prosecuting almost any 
scientific investigation. 

One specialty of the Library consists of the large number of maps and charts, 
obtained by exchange from geographical and hydrographical establishments, &c. 
This collection is as complete as any ia the country. 

No effort is spared to render the Library of the Institution conducive to the 
advance of science. Several editions of the catalogue of serial works have been 
published. 

In 1867 the care of the library was transferred to the library of Congi-ess. 
subject to be recalled at any time on certain conditions. The books are now 
catalogued and bound at the expense of the Government, while the ofTicers and 
collaborators of the Institution have the same use of them as formerly, with 
greatly increased facilities from access to the larger collection of books in the 
National Library. The Institution still sends its publications, in exchange, to 
other establishments at, home and abroad, and desires to increase its library by 
transactions of societies, and serial and scientific works. 



10 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 




TUE UBRART. 



In the large hall at the south entrance to the building are a number of 
articles of special interest. The most prominent of these is the ancient 
SARCOPHAGUS, which was brought to this country on the frigate Con- 
stitution, by Commodore Elliott, from Beirut, in Syria, in 1839. This Sar- 
cophagus was believed to be the repository of the remains of a Roman 
Emperor, and was intended for those of President Andrew Jackson. The 
General, however, refused to accept the gift, saying " I cannot consent that 
my mortal body shall be laid in a repository prepared for an Emperor or a 
King — my republican feelings and principles forbid it — the simplicity of our 
system of Government forbids it." 

A plank from the redwood tree, and a piece of harh from the famous giant 
tree of California, will attract attention, as well as an immense mass of cojiper 
from Lake Superior. 

Among the most interesting objects in this part of the collection are several idols 
from Central America, presented by Hon. E. G Squicr, late United States Minis- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



11 




ter to Nicaragua. The largest statue, carved in black basalt, was obtained from 
the Island of Momotonibita, in Lake Managua, where there was a temple or sacred 
place. The figure with the sphinx-like head-dress is also from the same locality. 
One or two of the other statues, by the Indians of the Pueblo of Subtiava, near 
Jjeon, having been buried a great number of years, and the locality carefully con- 
cealed, they are somewhat mutilated. A small group of these monuments exists 
in the depths of the forest midway between Leon and the Pacific, which is still 
secretly visited by the Indians for the performance of dances and other rites 
pertaining to their primitive religion. The small figure resembling some animal 
couchant was, until very recently, preserved on a remarkable rock on the side of 
the volcano of Omatepec, and regarded with high veneration by the Indians. It 
was only after many years of search that the priests were able to find and remove 
it. The granite vase, distinguished by the ornaments called grecques by Hum- 
boldt, (and which characterize the ruins at Mitla, in Mexico,) was dug up near 
the city of Nicaragua. The spot had been a cemetery of the ancient inhabitanta. 



12 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Anotrier relic of the same material, and with a like style of ornament, accompanies 
the vase, and was found in the same neighborhood. It seems to have been de- 
signed as a pedestal for a small statue. There are also several vases, in which 
the bones and ashes of the dead were packed after the decomposition of the flesh 
or after burning. 

The largest and most elaborate monuments in Nicaragua exist in the little 
Island of Pensacola, near the base of the extinct volcano of Momobacho. They 
weigh a number of tons each, and are distinguished as being wrought from blocks 
of sandstone — a material which is not found on the island. Two of the statues 
of tlie Smithsonian collection are from the Island of Zapatero, in Lake Nicaragua, 
where once existed one of the most imposing aboriginal temples of the country. 
Here, among the ruins of the teocaUi, or high-places of the former inhabitants, 
were found entire statues, besides the fragments of many others, several broken 
sacrificial stones, etc. 



Il]e ^it^citii]. 



The Smithsonian Institution is now in possession of the best collection of the 
larger North American and European mammalia, both skins and skeletons, to be 
found in the United States. In birds it is only second to the collection of the 
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences — the latter being without doubt the 
most extensive and perfect now extant. Of fish the Smithsonian has a greater 
number than is to be found in any cabinet, except that of Professor Agassiz. 




THE MDSSOK. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



13 




LABORATORY OF NATURAL BISTORT 



It should be understood that the Smithsonian Institution does not enter upou 
grounds already occupied, and therefore it is not an object to collect specimens 
promiscuously, or those usually found in other museums. Still the collection ot 
this Institution is now attractive to the general visitor and curiosity seeker; and the 
student of natural history will here find much that will be sought in vain else- 
where. Duplicate specimens are often exchanged for those in other collections, 
and all the objects are open for the study and examination of those engaged in 
this line of research. Applications for such facilities are numerous, and have al- 
ways been granted. The preparation of most of the important papers on natural 
history published within a few years in this country has been aided in this way 
by the Institution. 

The act of Congress establishing the Institution provides as follows : — 

Sec. 6. That, in proportion as suitable arrangements can be made for their reception, all 
objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants, 
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging, or hereafter to belong, to the United 
States, which may be in the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody the same may be, 
shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receiv.- 
llicm, and shall be arranged in such order, and so classed, as best facilitate the exam- 
ination and study of them, in the building so as aforesaid to be erected for the Institution ; 
and the E.egents of said Institution shall afterwards, as new specimens in natural history, 
geology, or minerology, may be obtained for the museum of the Institution, by exchange of 
duplicate specimens belonging to the Institution, (which they are hereby authorized to 
make,) or by any donation, which they may receive, or otherwise, cause such new specimens 
to be also appropriately classed and arranged. 



14 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Under these provisions, the Institution has received and taken charge of such 
government collections in mineralogy, geology, and natural history as have been 
made since its organization. The amount of these has been very great, as all the 
United States Geological, Boundary and Railroad Surveys, with the various tope 
graphical, military, and naval explorations, have been, to a greater or less extent, 
ordered to make such collections as would illustrate the physical and natural his- 
tory features of the regions traversed. 

or llu! collections made by the government expeditions, those of fiftv 
are now deposited with the Smithsonian Institution, embracing more than five- 
sixths of the whole amount of materials collected. The principal expeditions thus 
furnishing collections are the United States Geological Surveys of Doctors Owen, 
Jackson, and Evans, and of Messrs. Foster and Whitney; the United States and 
Mexican Boundary Survey ; the Pacific Railroad Survey ; the Exploration of the 
Yellow Stone, by Lieutenant Warren ; the Survey of Lieutenant Bryan ; the 
United States Naval Astronomical Expedition; the North Pacific Behring Straits 
Expedition ; the Japan Expedition, and the Paraguay Expedition. 

The Institution has also received, from other sources, collections of greater oi 
less extent, from various portions of North America, tending to complete the 
government series. 

The collections thus made, taken a.s a whole, constitute the largest and best 
series of the minerals, fossils, rocks, animals, and plants of the entire continent 
of North America, in the world. Many tons of geological and mineralogical 
specimens, illustrating the surveys throughout the West, are embraced therein. 
There is also a very large collection of minerals of the mining regions of Northern 
Mexico, and of New Mexico, made by a practical Mexican geologist, during a period 
of twenty-five years, and furnishing indications of many rich mining localities 
within our own borders, yet unknown to the American people. 

It includes, also, with scarcely an exception, all the vertebrate animals of North 
America, among them many specimens each of the Grizzly, Cinniman, and Black 
Bears ; the Panther, Jaguar, Ocelot, and several species of Lynx or Wildcat : 
the Elk, the Mexican, Virginian, White-tailed, Black-tailed, and Mule Deer; the 
Antelope, Rocky Mountain Goat and Sheep; several species of Wolves and 
Foxes, the Badger, Beaver, Porcupine, Prairie Dog, Gopher, and also about seven 
hundred species of American Birds, four hundred of Reptiles, and eight hundred 
of Fishes, embracing Salmon, Trout, Pike, Pickerel, White Fish, Muskalonge, 
Bass, Redfish, &c. 

The greater part of the Mammalia have been arranged in walnut drawers, 
made proof against dust and insects. The birds have been similarly treated, 
while the reptiles and fish have been classified, as, to some extent, have also been 
the shells, minerals, fossils, and plants. 

The collections are increasing so rapidly that it will soon be impossible, from 
the small part of the Smithson income which can be devoted to this purpose, 
to properly sustain a large museum, and a National Museum should bo esta- 
blished l)y tho Government on a scale commensurate with the resources, 
productions, and character of the country. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 15 

Thofuud of a foreigner intended for the "increase and diffasion of knowledge 
among men " should not bo absorbed in local objects and in doing that which 
the Government should in honor and good faith do itself. 

The Institution, if relieved of the charge of the show museum, would devote 
its energies in the way of advancing natural history by instituting original 
explorations in all parts of the world, making collections and distributing 
duplicates to aJl other museums. 



1)i[efeoh'le3. 



In the Museum hall may be seen a meteorite, from Northern Mexico, which 
weighs 250 pounds. 

It was brought to this country by Lieutenant Couch, of the United States 
Army, he having obtained it at Saltillo. It was said to have come from the Sancha 
estate, some fifty or sixty miles from Santa Rosa, in the north of Coahuila , 
various accounts were given of the precise locality, but none seemed very satisfac- 
tory. When first seen by Lieutenant Couch, it was used as an anvil, and had 
been originally intended for the Society of Geography and Statistics in the city of 
Mexico. It is said, that where this mass was found there are many others of 
enormous size ; but such stories, however, are to be received with many allow- 
ances. Mr. Weidner, of the mines of Freiberg, states, that near the southwestern 
edge of the Balson de Mapimi, on the route to the mines of Parral, there is a 
meteorite near the road of not less than a ton weight. Lieutenant Couch also 
states, that the intelligent, but almost unknown. Dr. Berlandier, writes in his 
journal of the Commission of Limits, that at the hacienda of Venagas, there was 
C1827) a piece of iron that would make a cylinder one yard in length, with a 
diameter of ten inches. It was said to have been brought from the mountains 
near the hacienda. It presented no crystalline structure, and was quite ductile. 
Another Meteorite to be seen here is still more curious and interesting, from 
its remarkable size and appearance. It is in the shape of a ring much heavier 
on one side. Its greatest exterior diameter is 49 inches ; the least 38 inches ; 
width of central opening 23 inches; width of thickest part of the ring 17^ 
inches. It weighs 1400 lbs. Its composition is principally of iron. It was 
discovered in Sonora by Jesuit missionaries, brought to Tucson in Arizona, 
and was sent, through the influence of Dr. Irwin, U. S. A., by Mr. Augustine 
Ainsa, to Herraosillo. In May, 1863, Mr. Jesus Ainsa brought it to San 
Francisco, and shipped it to the Smithsonian Institution- 



IQ THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The following is a sketch of the labors of the Institution, and illustrates the 
capability of the plan of operations for producing important results in the way of 
increasing and diffming knowledge among men : — 

Puhlications.' — Three classes are issued. 

1. A quarto series, entitled "Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge," 
issued in volumes, each containing one or more separate articles. This includes 
memoirti, embracing the records of extended original investigations and researches, 
resulting in what are believed to be new truths, and constituting positive additions 
to the sum of human knowledge. 

2. An octavo series, entitled "Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections," 
consisting of reports on the present state of our knowledge of particular branches 
of science; instructions for collecting and digesting facts and materials for research; 
lists and synopses of species of the organic and inorganic world; museum cata- 
logues; reports of explorations; aids to bibliographical investigations, etc., gene- 
rally prepared at the express request of the Institution, and at its expense. 

3. Another octavo series, consisting of the Annual Reports of the Institution 
to Congress, called "Smithsonian Heports." These include the official reports 
of the Secretary to the Board of Regents of the operations and condition of the 
Institution ; the reports of Committees of the Board; abstracts of lectures delivered 
before the Institution; extracts from correspondence; original or translated articles 
relating to the history and progress of science, etc. 

The following rules have been observed ia the distribution of the first and second 
series : 

1. They are presented to all learned societies of the first class which publish 
transactions, and give copies of these, in exchange to the Institution. 

2. To all foreign libraries of the first class, provided they give in exchange their 
catalogues and other publications, or an equivalent, from their duplicate volumes. 

3. To all the colleges in actual operation in this country, provided they furnish, 
in return, meteorological observations, catalogues of their libraries and of their 
students, and all other publications issued by them relative to their organization 
and history. 

4. To all States and Territories, provided they give, in return, copies of all docu- 
ments published under their authority. 

5. To all incorporated public libraries in this country, not included in any of 
tiie foregoing classes, now containing 10,000 volumes; and to smaller libraries, 
where a whole State or large district would be otherwise unsupplied. 

Institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular branches of 
knowledge, receive such articles published by the Institution as relate to their 
objects. Portions of the series are also given to institutions of lesser grade not 
entitled, under the above rules, to the full series, and also to the meteorological 
correspondents of the Institution. ~~ 

The Reports are of a more popular character, and are presented 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 17 

1. To all the meteorological observers and other collaborators of the Institution. 

2. To donors to its Library or Museum. 

3. To colleges and other educational establishments. 

4. To public libraries and literary and scientific societies. 

5. To teachers or individuals who are engaged in special studies, and who make 
direct application for them. 

Besides the works which have been published entirely at the expense of the In- 
stitution, aid has been furnished by subscription for copies to be distributed to 
foreign libraries of a number of works which fall within the class adopted by the 
programme. The principal works of this kind for which subscriptions have been 
made are as follows : Agassiz's Contributions to Natural History, Gould's Astro- 
nomical Journal, Shea's American Linguistics, Runkle's Mathematical Monthly, 
Deane's Fossil Footprints, Tuomey & Holmes' Fossils of South Carolina, Peirce's 
Analytic Mechanics. 

Meteorology — The investigation of all questions relative to meteorology has 
been an object to which the Institution has devoted special attention, and one of 
its first efforts was to organize a voluntary system of observation, which should 
extend as widely as possible over the whole of the North American continent. It 
induced a skilful artisan, under its direction, to commence the manufacture of care- 
fully compared and accurately graduated instruments, now generally known as 
the Smithsonian standards. It prepared and furnished a series of instructions for 
the use of the instruments and the observations of meteorological phenomena; also 
three series of blank forms as registers. 

It next organized a body of intelligent observers, and in a comparatively short 
time brought the system into practical operation; each year the number of observers 
increased, and where one ceased his connection with the enterprise, several came 
forward to supply his place. By an arrangement with the Surgeon General of the 
army, the observations made at the United States military posts in different parts 
of the country, and also the system which had previously been establi.^hed by the 
State of New York, were remodelled so as to harmonize with that of the Institu- 
tion. Gentlemen interested in science residin-g in the British provinces, and at 
nearly all the posts of the Hudson's Bay Company, also in Mexico, Central Ame- 
rica, the West Indies, and some places in South America, &c., joined in this enter- 
prise. All these contribute their services without compensation. Their only re- 
ward is the satisfaction of co-operating with each other and the Institution in the 
effort to supply data and materials for investigation. Any returns, indeed, which 
the Institution has in its power to make are gladly rendered in a hearty acknow- 
ledgment of assistance, and in copies of all the Smithsonian publications likely to 
be of interest. 

The publications of the Institution contain many memoirs which have tended 
to advance the science of meteorology. Among these may be mentioned the me- 
teorological and physical tables prepared at the expense of the Institution by Pro- 
fessor Guvot, and fiUinj; a lar^e octavo volume of the Miscellaneous Collections. 
2 



18 THE SMITHSONIAN INSIITUTION. 

No work extant answers tl>e sarne purpose with the one referred to, which ha? 
heuce become a general standard of reference, the constant demand for it as well 
in Europe as America having required the printing of several successive editions. 

The results of the reducti^^ns for five years previous to 1860 have been published 
in two volumes of nearly 2,000 quarto pages, containing a mass of materials of 
great value in determining the average temperature, fall of rain, barometrical 
pressure, moisture, direction of the wind, and time of various periodical pheno- 
mena relative to plants, animals, &c. 

In addition to these large and important volumes, other works have been pub- 
lished by the Institution which have had a marked influence on the progress of 
meteorology. Among these may be mentioned the works of Professor Coffin, on 
the winds of the Northern Hemisphere; of Mr. Chappelsmith, on a tornado in 
Illinois; of Professor Loomis, on a great storm which pervaded both America and 
Europe; the reduced observations for twenty-eight years of Professor Caswell, at 
Providence, Rhode Island; of Dr. Smith, for twenty years in Arkansas; of Dr. 
Kane and Captain McClintock, in the Arctic Seas; on the heat and light of the 
sun at diS"erent points, by Mr. Meech; on the secular period of the aurora, by 
Professor Olmsted; the occurrence of auroras in the Arctic regions, by Mr. P. 
Force, &c. 

Besides these, a series of meteorological essays embodying man}' of the results 
obtained from the investigations at the Institution has been prepared by the Secre- 
tary, and been published in the Agricultural Reports of the Patent Office. 

Astronomy. — The Institution has advanced the science of astronomy both by its 
publications and the assistance rendered to observers. To facilitate astronomical 
observations it prepared and published for six years an annual list of occultations 
of the principal stars by the moon, and printed and distributed a series of tables 
for determining the perturbations of the planetary motions, the object of which 
determination is to facilitate the calculation of the places of the heavenly bodies. 
These tables have accomplished th-3 desired end, saving to the practical astronomer 
an immense amount of tedious a:nd monotonous labor. 

The name of the Institution has been favorably connected with the history of 
the interesting discovery of the planet Neptune. From a few of the first obser- 
vations which had been made on this planet, Mr. Sears C. Walker calculated its 
approximate orbit, and by this means tracing its path through its whole revolution 
of IGG years, he was enabled to carry it backward until it fell among a cluster of 
stars, accurately mapped by Lalande, towards the close of the last century. After 
minute inspection he was led to conclude that one of the stars which had been 
observed by Ijalande in 1795, was the planet Neptune. He was thus supplied 
with the amount of its motion for upwards of fifty years, from which he deduced 
a much more perfect orbit, and was enabled to construct an ephemeris giving the 
place of the planet for several years in succession. These investigations, so inter- 
esting to astronomy and honorable to this country, were prosecuted and published 
at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 19 

To render more generally accessible to practical astronomers in this country the 
theory of the motion of the heavenly bodies by the celebrated Gauss, the Institu- 
tion shared the expense of publishing a translation of this treatise from the Latin, 
by Admiral Davis. It furnishes a complete system of formulas for computing the 
movements of a body in any of the curves belonging to the class of conic sections, 
and a general method of determining the orbit of a planet or a comet from three 
observations, as seen from the earth. * 

For a number of years aid was afforded to the publication of Gould's American 
Astronomical Journal, which rendered good service to the science by making 
promptly known to foreign observers the results of the labors of their contempo- 
raries in America. It has also reduced and published at its own expense the as- 
tronomical observations made by Dr. Kaue in the Arctic regions, aucl lias also 
published those made in the same regions by Dr. Hayes. 

Congress having authorized, in 1849, an astronomical expedition under Lieuten- 
ant Gilliss to the Southern Hemisphere, for the purpose of determining the paral- 
lax of the planets, and consequently their distance from the sun, by observations 
on Venus and Mars, accidentally failed to make the appropriation for instruments. 
This omission was supplied by the Institution, which was subsequently indemnified 
for the expense by the Chilian government. 

In the observation of all the large solar eclipses which have happened since the 
date of its organization, the Institution has actively and efficiently co-operated by 
publishing projections of the phases and times of their occurrence in diffiirent parts 
of America. 

Under its auspices, and partly at its expense, an expedition was inaugurated to 
observe the great eclipse of 1858 in Peru, from which data of value for the im- 
provement of solar and lunar tables were determined, besides facts of interest in 
regard to the physical constitution of the sun. 

Assistance was also rendered to the expeditions under the direction of the Coast 
Survey, to observe the eclipse of July 18, 18G0, one of which was sent to Labrador, 
under the charge of Professor S. Alexander, of New Jersey, and the other to 
Washington Territory, under that of Lieutenant Gilliss. 

To these may be added an account of an instrument invented by Rev. T. Hill, 
President of Harvard College, for the projection of eclipses. 

Physics and Chemistry. — The Institution has fostered these sciences in many 
different ways ; among others, by importing models of the most approved articles 
of apparatus, and making them known to scientific men through lectures and 
otherwise. 

It has instituted an extensive scries of experiments on building materials, par- 
ticularly in reference to those employed by the government in the construction of 
the Capitol and other public edifices; also a like series on acoustics, as applied to 
public halls, and the principles deduced from these practically applied in the con- 
struction of a model lecture room. It has made a very extended series of experi- 
ments on different substances employed for light-house illumination, from which 



20 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

has resulted the substitution of lard oil for sperm oil and the consco|nf»<. 
annual saving of a large amount of money to the government. 

In compliance with requests made by different departments of the government, 
and of Congress, particularly since the war, it has conducted various series of in- 
vestigations, principally in relation to questions involving mechanical, chemical, 
and physicu'l principles, and has made reports on subjects of this kind amounting, 
in the afrjrrfcgate, to several hundred. 

To facilitate researches, a laboratory has been established and kept constantly 
in working condition, the privilege of using it having been given to various com- 
petent persons for experimenting in different branches of physical science. 

The most important publications under this head are the researches relative to 
electric currents, by Professor Secchi; on the explosibility of nitre, by Dr. Ilare; 
on the ammonia-cobalt bases, by Drs. Gibbs and Genth; and on astronomical 
photography, by Dr. Henry Draper. 

A valuable report on recent improvements in the chemical arts, by Booth & 
Morfit, was published in IS52, and there have been given in the Annual Reports 
of the Institution a series of translations and articles presenting a view of the 
progress of physics and chemistry from year to year, since 1853, among which 
we may particularly notice the translation of Muller on recent contributions to 
electricity, and the reprint of Powell on radiant heat. 

Terrestrial Mngvetisvi. — The subject of terrestrial magnetism has been prose- 
cuted simultaneously with that of meteorology, and an observatory was erected in 
the Smithsonian grounds, fitted up with the most approved instruments, and con- 
ducted under the joint auspices of the Institution and of the Coast Survey. After 
remaining in operation for several years, the instruments were transferred to Key 
West, as a remote station where observations were still more desirable. Instru- 
ments were also furnished an expedition to Mexico, and used with much success 
by Mr. Sonntag, whose results were published in the Smithsonian Contributions 
to Knowledge. Apparatus was also furnished to Dr. Kane, Dr. Hayes, and other 
explorers, by means of which valuable results were obtained. 

Of the more important publications of the Institution, which have tended to 
advance this science, may be mentioned the articles, by Dr. Locke, on the dip and 
intensity; the elaborate discussion, by Professor IJache, of the magnetic observa- 
tions made at Girard College from 1841 to 1845; the report on magnctical obser- 
vations in the Arctic Seas, by Dr. Kane, reduced at the expense of the Institution, 
by Mr. C. Schott; and those made in Pennsylvania and adjacent States, by Pro- 
fessor Buche, and in 3Iexico, by Mr. Sonntag. 

Explorations. — In the deficiency of means for more extended operations, the 
efforts of the Institution in the line of explorations and collection arc confined, as 
strictly as possible, to America. Arctic America, all the unknown portions of the 
United States, Mexico, Central and South America, and the West Indies have been 
laid under contribution for facts and materials by which to advance science. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION". 21 

An eminently useful influence has been exerted by the Institution through the 
aid it has afforded in the organization of the different government explorations by 
land and by sea. Whether by official representations to the heads of departments, 
or personal influence with officers and employes, it has secured the engagement of 
individuals competent to collect facts and specimens; it has instructed persons thus 
engaged, and others, in the details of observation; it has superintended the pre- 
paration, and, in some cases, borne the expense of the necessary outfits; has fur- 
nished fresh supplies from time to time to the collectors while in the field; received 
the collections made, and preserved them for future study, or at once consi"faed 
them to the hands of competent persons, both at home and abroad, for investiga- 
tion; directing the execution of the necessary drawings and engravings for the 
reports, and finally superintending the printing and even the distribution of any 
available copies of the completed works to institutions of science. Prior to the 
establishment of the Institution but little had been done by our government in 
the way of scientific explorations, with the exception of that under Captain Wilkes. 
But since then nearly every United States expedition, whether a survey for a 
Pacific railroad route, a boundary line between the United States and regions north 
or south of it, or within its borders, a wagon-road across the Rocky Mountains, or 
an ordinary topographical exploration, has been influenced and aided more or less, 
as above stated. 

Besides these, similar explorations have been carried on without any reference 
to the government, and either entirely or in a great measure at the expense of the 
Institution, and always at its suggestion, or under its direction. Prominent among 
these may be mentioned the three years' researches in the Arctic regions, by Mr. 
Kennicott, with the co-operation of gentlemen of the Hudson's Bay Company ; of 
Mr. Drexler, in the region of Hudson's Bay, and also in the Rocky Mountains; 
of Mr. Coues, in Labrador; of Lieutenant Feilner, in Nebraska and Northern 
California; of Mr. John Xantus, at Fort Tejon, Cape St. Lucas, and in Western 
Mexico; of Lieutenant Trowbridge, on the coast of California; of Drs. Cooper 
and Suckley, in Western America generally; of Drs. Coues and Beers, in Kansas, 
New Mexico, and Arizona; of Dr. Irwin, in Arizona; of Dr. Ilitz, about Laramie 
Peak; of Lieutenant Couch, in Texas and Mexico; of G. Wurdeman, Lieutenant 
Wright, Captain Woodbury, and others, in Florida, and the Gulf of Mexico; of 
Dr. Sartorius, Professor Sumichrast, Dr. Berendt, in Mexico; Dr. Von Frantz, J. 
Carniol, in Costa Rica; of Mr. March, in Jamaica; of Mr. Wright, Dr. Gundlach, 
Professor Poey, in Cuba; Judge Carter, in Bolivia, besides many others. 

In addition to the collections which have been received from explorations organ- 
ized under the direction of the Institution, large numbers of duplicate specimens 
have been presented by the meteorological observers and other Smithsonian col- 
laborators, the whole forming a body of material for the illustration and study of 
the American continent unequalled by any collection previously made. The results 
of the explorations, however, as might be inferred, have not been confined to spe- 
cimens alone, but have furnished information relative to the topography, geology, 
physical geography, ethnology, and the living fauna of the country and regions 
viirited. 



22 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The results have been published by government, the Institution, or other parties. 
The extent and importance of these publications may be seen in the volumes of 
the reports of the Pacific Railroad and Mexican boundary surveys; of the United 
States astronomical expedition to Chili, under the late lamented Captain Gilliss; 
of Captain Stansbury's exploration of Utah; of Lieutenant Michler's of the Isthmus 
of Darien, &c. &c ; in the volumes of the Smithsonian publications, and in the 
transactions of nearly all the scientific institutions in the United States. 

In order to facilitate the operations of collectors, a series of directions and cir- 
culars have been prepared and widely distributed, for collectrng, preserving, and 
transporting specimens of natural history, and also special instructions as to the 
collecting of nests, eggs, shells, insects, &c. 

Description and Distribution of Collections and Specimens. — The object of 
making these collections, in conformity with the policy of the Institution, was not 
merely to supply a large museum in Washington with permanent specimens or 
duplicates for exchange, but to furnish the naturalists of the world with the mate- 
rials for advancing the science of the natural history of North America, and of 
facilitating the study of its various branches by supplying museums, both in the 
United States and in Europe, with sets of type specimens. 

In pursuance of this object, full sets of the specimens collected have been sub- 
mitted to a large number of naturalists, both in this country and abroad, for cri- 
tical study and description, and it is not too much to say that scarcely a mono- 
graphic investigation has been conducted for many years past in any branch of 
American zoology which has not derived part or the whole of its material from the 
Smithsonian collections. Duplicates of the specimens, when described, have been 
made up into series for distribution, always accurately labelled, and are usually 
types of some published investigation. The average of such distribution has, for 
the last ten years, been at least ten thousand specimens annually, and the whole 
number distributed over a quarter of a million. In this way all the older 
museums in this country and Canada have been largely increased, and the 
foundation for several new establishments of a similar kind has been furnished. 
To all colleges and academies making special application, labelled specimens 
have also been presented. 

This distribution of specimens is very different from the ordinary exchanges 
conducted between institutions or individuals, which usually involve the return of 
an equivalent. The question with the Smithsonian Institution is, not what can 
be had in return, but where a particular specimen or series of specimens can be 
placed so as best to advance the cause of science, by being most accessible to the 
largest number of students engaged in original investigations. 

PalseontoJogy, Geology, Physical Geography, &c. — Appropriations have been 
made for investigations of the surface formation of the Connecticut valley, by 
Proftssor E. Hitchcock, and for the collection of materials for the illustration of the 
geology and pa!a;ontology of particular regions. Appropriation has also been 
made to Professor Guyot for a barometrical survey of the different parts of the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 23 

Alleghany Mountains, and to other persons for collecting observations on heights, 
as determined in different parts of the country by the various canal and railway 
surveys. 

The publications on these subjects, besides the papers of Professor Hitchcock 
on surface geology, are as follows: A Memoir on Mosasaurus, by Dr. 11. W. Gibbs. 
On the Extinct Species of the Fossil Ox and Sloth of North America, and on the 
Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, by Dr. Leidy. On the Physical Geography of the 
IMississippi Valley, by Charles Ellet. On the Law of Deposit of Flood Tide, by 
Admiral Davis. On the Fluctuations of the Level of the great American Lakes, 
by C. Whittlesey. On the Palaeontology of the Upper Missouri, and Check List 
of Miocene Cretaceous and Jurassic Invertebrata, by F. B. Meek. A Memoir, by 
Dr. Leidy, on the Extinct Reptiles of the Cretaceous period. 

The Institution has published a check list of minerals, with their symbols, pre- 
pared by Mr. Egleston, with special reference to facilitating the labelling of the 
Smithsonian minerals and the exchange of specimens, and it may be mentioned 
that the Institution has made an extensive distribution of specimens of building 
stone employed by the government. 

Botany. — This branch of general natural history has been advanced by the In- 
stitution, not only by means of the publication of the papers of original memoirs, 
but also by explorations and collections made at the expense of the Smithsoniaa 
Fund. The most important work which has been published is a large quarto vo- 
lume, illustrated by expensive colored plates, of the sea plants of the entire Ame- 
rican coast. The work was written for the Institution by Dr. Harvey, of the 
University of Dublin, and has been the means of rendering this family of the 
vegetable kingdom more generally known. The Institution has also published 
several papers on the plants of New Mexico and California, by Dr. Gray, of Cam- 
bridge, and Dr. Torrey, of New York. 

Duplicates of the specimens described have been presented to institutions at 
home and abroad. Considerable labor has also been expended in the preparation 
of an original report on the forest trees of America, by Dr. Gray. 

General Zoology. — A large part of the collections made by the Institution 
belong to the general class of zoology, intended to advance the study of animal 
life upon the continent of America. 

The ornithology of America has always been a specialty of the Smithsonian 
Institution, more efforts having been made to perfect its collection in this depart- 
ment than any other. The Institution has published the first part of a work by 
Dr. T. 31. Brewer, suitably illustrated, on the distribution and habits of North 
American birds during the breeding season, with descriptions and figures of their 
eggs, the materials being derived entirely from the collections of the Institution, 
and mostly made at its special request. This is the first separate work on North 
American zoology ever prepared. A catalogue of North American birds, prepared 
by Professor S. F. Baird, has been extensively used at home and abroad in label- 
ling collections. 



24 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

* 
Professor Baird has prepared a revision, or posting up, of our knowledge of 

North Auierican ornithology to the present date, with the addition of the species 
of Central and South America and the West Indies. The materials being derived 
almost entirely from the specimens collected by the Institution, have been increased 
eince the publication of the extensive work on the same subject, by Professor 
Baird, in the Pacific Railroad report, from 12,000 to 35,000. 

The collections which have been made by the Institution for the illustration of 
mammalia have been very extensive, amounting to 10,000 specimens, and have not 
only included many duplicates of every species previously known, but a very large 
number entirely new to science. A catalogue of North American mammals, 
chiefly those collected by the Institution, prepared by Professor Baird, has been 
published and distributed to those interested in the study; also a monograph of 
North American bats, prepared by Dr. H. Allen. Materials are now in course of 
accumulation to complete the account of the classes of mammals of North Ame- 
rica, which have not been included in the publications of the Institution and 
Pacific Railroad Reports. 

As with all American vertebrata, the collections of reptiles and fishes have been 
very extensive, and numerous monographs or articles have been published relative 
to them in the Pacific Railroad Reports, and the proceedings of different natural 
history societies, the Institution having published a synopsis of the serpents of 
North America, and a monograph of the cottoids. 

The Institution has materially aided the study of the entomology of this country, 
not only by the collections in that branch, but by preparing and publishing a series 
of works for the purpose of exhibiting the state of knowledge on the subject, and 
facilitating its further advancement. It has published and distributed the follow- 
ing under this head : — 

Instructions for collecting and preserving insects, and catalogues, synopses, or 
monographs of the Diptera, Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Neuroptera, prepared by 
the most competent authorities in Europe and America. 

It has also in course of preparation, works relative to the Hymenoptera, IIo- 
moptera, Ilcmiptera, Orthoptera, &c. 

Conclwhgy . — A large collection of specimens of shells was received from the 
United States exploring expedition, which has been much increased by subsequent 
additions. All the shells of the west coast of the United States, and those gene- 
rally collected by the exploring expedition, were put into the hands of Mr. P. P. 
Carpenter, of England, the new ones described for publication, and the duplicates 
of the whole arranged for distribution to museums, colleges, and other establish- 
ments. The publications on this subject are. Lists of North American Shells, 
Circulars Relative to Collecting, an Elementary Introduction to the Study of 
Conchology, and an extensive work, in two octavo volumes, on the l?ibliography 
of North American Conchology, by W. G. Binney, and a Monograph of the Cor 
biculidae, by Temple Prime. Besides these, a number of articles are in the press 
or in course of preparation. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 25 

Mlcroscopij. — Encouragement has been given to this branch of science, by im- 
porting, as samples, simple forms of working microscopes, and also by stimulating 
our native artists to greater exertion in the construction of this instrument, by 
ordering the best that could be produced. Samples of microscopic organisms have 
been collected and distributed to observers, and examinations and reports have been 
made on a large number of this class of objects sent to the Institution. The pub- 
lications in regard to this subject are a number of papers by Professor Bailey, of 
West Point, and a very interesting Memoir, by Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, on a 
Fauna and Flora within Living Animals. 

Physiologi/. — No experiments on this subject have been made under the imme- 
diate direction of the Institution, although it has furnished the materials for inves- 
tigation by other parties. The publications in regard to it are Chemical and 
Physical Researches concerning North American Vertebrata, by Dr. J. Jones; 
Researches upon the Venom of the Rattlesnake, with an investigation of the Ana- 
tomy and Physiology of the Organs Concerned, by Dr. S. W. Mitchell; on the 
Breathing Organs of Turtles, by Drs. Mitchell and Morehouse; on the Anatomy 
of the Nervous System of Rana Pipieus, by Dr. J. Wyman; and on the Medulla 
Oblongata, by Dr. John Dean. 

Ethnology and Pliihlogi/ — One of the earliest efforts on the part of the Insti- 
tution, was directed to the advancement of the science of American Ethnology. 
Its first publication, as well as introductory volume to the series of Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge, being the work of Squier and Davis, on the Ancient 
Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, remains the standard treatise on this sub- 
ject. This was followed by a similar work on the Antiquities of New York, by 
Mr. Squier; and those of Wisconsin, by Mr. Lapham; of Ohio and of Lake 
Superior, by IMr. Whittlesey; a Memoir on some Antiquities of Mexico, by Brantz 
Mayer; and a general introduction to the whole subject of American Archaeology, 
by Mr. Haven, besides many articles of less extent in one or another of the Smith- 
sonian series. Several pamphlets of instructions for making observations and 
collections in this science have also been issued. 

In the department of Philology, also, the Institution has evinced its zeal and 
activity by the publication, among others, of the elaborate work on the Dakota 
Language, by Mr. Riggs; that on the Yoruba Language, by Mr. Bowen; and that 
on the Chinook Jargon, by Mr. Turner and Mr. Gribbs. To Mr. Shea, of New 
York, who is engaged in the preparation of a library of American languages, 
annual appropriations from the funds of the Institution have been made in further- 
ance of the publication of linguistic memoirs furnished by its correspondents. 

Systematic efforts have been directed by the Institution to the collection of as 
perfect a series as possible of the specimens of American antiquities, and of those 
illustrative of the habits of the modern native tribes. Already an extensive col- 
lection has been accumulated, and the preparation and distribution of a series of 
colored casts of the more interesting specimens of aboriginal art have been com- 
menced. 



26 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Correspondence — The Institution has constantly received a large number of 
communications, asking information on a variety of subjects, particularly in regard 
to the solution of scientific questions, the names and characters of objects of natural 
history, and the analysis of soils, minerals, and other materials which pertain to 
the industrial resources of the country. Answers have in all cases been given to 
these inquiries, either directly by the officers of the Institution, or by reports from 
the Smithsonian collaborators. A considerable portion of the correspondence 
burned in the office of the secretary was of this character. The loss in this case 
is to be regretted, not only on account of the valuable information the letters and 
answers contained, but also on account of the illustration they afforded of the in- 
fluence of the Institution, and the condition of the public mind at a given time. 
Every subject connected with science which strongly attracts popular attention, 
never fails to call forth a large number of inquiries and suggestions. 

International Exclianges. — To facilitate the direct correspondence between the 
learned institutions and scientific men of the two worlds, and the free exchange 
of their publications, has, from the first, been a special object of attainment with 
the Smithsonian Institution. Year by year its plans for this purpose have been 
modified and improved, until the system has become as nearly complete and satis- 
factory as the funds and force at its disposal will allow. At the present day it is 
the great medium of scientific intercommunication between the New World and the 
Old; its benefits and services being recognized alike by individuals, institutions, 
and governments. Its parcels pass all the custom-houses without question or in- 
terference, while American and foreign lines of transportation, with rare excep- 
tions, vie with each other in the extent of the privileges accorded to it. To so 
great an extent has its sphere of activity been enlarged, that it is no exaggeration 
to say that a very large proportion of all international exchanges of the kind re- 
ferred to are now made through its instrumentality. At the present time the In- 
stitution is prepared to receive, at periods made known through its circulars, any 
books or pamphlets of scientific, literary, or benevolent character which any in- 
stitutions or individuals in America may wish to present to a correspondent else- 
where, subject only to the condition of being delivered in Washington free of cost, 
and of being accompanied by a separate list of the parcels sent. Where any party 
may have special works to distribute, the Institution is always prepared to furnish 
a list of suitable recipients. In many cases where works of value have been pub- 
lished by the United States Qr State governments, likely to be of importance to 
students abroad, application has been made by the Institution for copies, in most 
cases with success. The articles and volumes, when received, are assorted and 
combined into packages, and these, after being properly addressed and inclosed in 
boxes, are despatched to the agents of the Institution in London, Leipsic, Paris, 
and Amsterdam. The boxes are there unpacked, and the contents distributed 
through the proper channels; the returns for these transmissions are received by 
the same agents, and boxed and forwarded to Washington, from which point the 
parcels for other parties are sent to their proper destination. All the expense of 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 27 

packing, boxing, agencies, freights, &c., being borne by the Institution, with the 
exception of the local conveyance of single parcels by express, or otherwise, within 
the United States. 



Ii]e Bu, 



On the 24th of January, 1805, a fire occurred at the Institution, which caused 
the destruction of the upper part of the main building, and the towers. The loss 
to the Institution was as follows: 1. The official, scientific, and miscellaneous cor- 
respondence, record books, and manuscripts in the Secretary's office. 2. The large 
collection of apparatus. 3. The personal effects of Smithson. 4. A large stock 
of tools and instruments. 5. All the duplicate copies of Smithsonian Reports on 
hand for distribution. 6. The wood-cuts of illustrations used in the Smithsonian 
publications. 

Besides these, Mr. Stanley lost his gallery of Indian portraits, which had been 
deposited in the Institution for a number of years; and a large quantity of private 
property was destroyed belonging to persons connected with the Institution. 

The fire, however, caused no interruption in the business of the Institution; 
the library, museum, and laboratory were uninjured; all its operations were carried 
on as usual, and plans were immediately adopted for the reconstruction with fire- 
proof materials of the parts of the building which had been damaged or destroyed. 



Il]e 6ii^oi|i)S3. 



The grounds around the building were laid out by the distinguished horticul- 
turist and landscape gardener, Downing, but he died while engaged in the prose- 
cution of his plans. 

We are indebted to the editor of the "Rural New Yorker," for the following 
remarks relative to this subject, and for the representation of the marble monu- 
ment erected to his memory: — 

" When the sad tidings of the death of Andrew Jackson Downing were announced, 
many hearts were stricken, and many countenances saddened. Every lover of rural 
life and rural taste felt that a friend, a brother, and a leader had fallen. The homes 
of hundreds, from the foundation stone to the gable point, spoke of the departed — 
even the trees and flowers of the garden told a talc of sadness. The furniture in 
our parlors, the books in our libraries, spoke too plainly to our wounded hearts 
of the loved and lost. Scarcely a city or village in our country but presented 
some monument of his skill and taste, something io remind the people how great 
and irreparable was their loss — cottages whose simple yet elegant adornings taught 
how truly taste may be independent of wealth; windows tempting the eye from 
loveliness within, to the glorious prospect without; stately trees that seemed to 
guard like sentinels the sacred precincts of home, and village churches whose walls 




^iit£/rir/ai ^ji^aMT, 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



29 



aud spires spoke of religion to the heart. 
It was at once proposed, in all parts 
of the country, by Horticultural and 
other Societies, that some suitable mouu- 
ruent should be erected to the memory 
of Mr. Downing, and in 1852, the 
American Pomological Society ap- 
pointed a committee to superintend this 
work. The design adopted by the com- 
mittee was furnished by Calvert Vaux, 
of Newburgh, N. Y., the late partner 
of Mr. Downing, and the work executed 
by Robert Launitz, an eminent sculptor 
of New York. The monument was 
erected in the grounds of the Smithson- 
ian Institution, at Washington, and it is 
worthy of remark, that Mr. Downing 
was engaged in laying out and beautify 
ing these grounds at the time of his death. 
The committee made their final report 
at the Pomological meeting in Sep- 
tember, 1856. The funds were supplied 
by friends of Mr. Downing. 'r> Philadel- 
phia, Newburgh, Boston, Washington, 
Louisville, Buffalo, and Rochester. 

The principal design of the monument 
consists in a large vase resting on a ped- 
estal, the whole executed of the finest 
Italian marble. The pattern of the vase 
is taken from an antique of the chastest 
school. The vase is four feet in height, 
and measures three feet in diameter on its upper rim. The body is ornamented 
with rich arabesque ; acanthus leaves surround the lower part. The handles 
rest on heads of satyrs, (the tutelar gods of groves and woods.) The pedestal, 
resting on a carved base, and being surmounted with a carved cornice, lias on each 
side deep panels, relieved by carved mouldings. Each of the panels contains 
an inscription ; that upon the Northern Front reads as follows : 

THIS VASE 
Was erected by his Friends 

IN MEMORY OF 

ANDREW JACKSON DOWNING, • 
Who died July 28, 1852, aged 37 years. 




DOWNING MONUMENT. 



He was born, and lived. 
And died upon the Hudson River. 



30 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

flis life was devoted to the improvement of the national taste 

in rural art, 
an office for which his genius and the natural beauty amidst 
which he lived had fully endowed him. 
His success was as great as his genius, and for the death of few 

public men, 
was public grief ever more sincere. 
When these grounds were proposed, he was at once 
called to design them ; 
but before they were completed be perished in the wreck of the 
steamer Henry Clay. 
His mind was singularly just, penetrating, and original. 
His manners were calm, reserved, and courteous. 
His personal memory 
belongs to the friends who loved him; 
his fame to the country which honored and laments him. 

Inscription upon the Southern Front : 

'•The taste of an individual, 
as well as that of a nation, will be in direct proportion to the 
profound sensibility 
with which he perceives the beautiful in natural scenery." 

" Open wide, therefore, 

the doors of your libraries and picture galleries, 

all ye true republicans I 

Build halls where knowledge shall be freely diffused among men, 

and not shut up within the narrow walls of 

narrower institutions. 

Plant spacious parks in your cities, 

and unclose their gates as wide as the gates of morning to the 

whole people." 

\_Downing^s Rural Eisayt, 

Upon the Eastern Front is inscribed : 

" Weep no more. 
For Lycidus your sorrow is not dead. 
Sunk though he be beneath the wat'ry floor. 
So sinks the day-star in the ocean bed, 
And yet anon repairs his drooping head. 
And tricks his beams, and with new spangled ore 
Flames in the forehead of the morning sky ; 
So Lycidus sunk low, but mounted high 
Through the dear might of Him that walked the waves." 

Upon the Western Front is this Inscription : 

I climb the hill from end to end, 
Of all the landscape underneath 
I find no place that does not breathe 

Some gracious memory of my friend 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



31 



' Tis held that sorrow makes us ■wise, 
Yet how much wisdom sleeps with thee. 
Which not alone had guided me, 

But served the seasons that may rise ; 

And doubtless unto thee is given 

A life that bears immortal fruit, 

In such great offices as suit 
The full grown energies of Heaven. 

And love will last as pure and whole 

As when he loved me here in time, 

And at the spiritual prime 
Re-waken with the dawning soul. 

On the Base of the Pedestal is the following : 

THIS MEMORIAL 

Was erected under a resolution passed at Philadelphia, 

in Sept., 1852, by the 

AMERICAN POMOLOGICAL SOCIETY, 

of which Mr. Downing was one of the 

original founders. 

MARSHALL P. WILDER, Presidem 

The whole monument with its granite plinth is nine feet four inches in hei<!,u8 
und cost SI .fi^'l 




Aooeirr^ 



tHB OATrWA.T. 



TO ESTABLISH 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



AN ACT to establish the " Smithsonian Institution." for the increase and dif- 
fusion of knowledge among men. 

James Smithson, Esquire, of London, in the Kingdom of Great Britain, 
having by his last will and testament given the whole of his property to 
the United States of America, to found at Washington, under the name 
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge among men ; and the United States having, by 
an act of Congress, received said property and accepted said trust; there- 
fore, for the faithful execution of said trust according to the will of the 
liberal and enlightened donor — 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatwes of 
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the 
President and Vice President of the United States, the Sec- 
retary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary 
of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Postmaster Gen- 
eral, the Attorney General, the Chief Justice, and the Com- 
missioner of the Patent Office of the United States, and 
the Mayor of the city of Washington, during the time for 
which they shall hold their respective offices, and such other 
persons as they may elect honorary members, be, and they 
are hereby, constituted and " establishment," by the name 
of the " Smithsonian Institution," for the increase and dif- 
fusion of knowledge among men ; and by that name shall 
be known and have perpetual succession, with the powers, 
limitations, and restrictions hereinafter contained, and no 
other. 

Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That so much of the prop- 
erty of the said James Smithson as has been received in 



money, and paid into the Treasury of the United States, be- 
ing the sum of five hundred and fifteen thousand one hun- 
dred and sixty-nine dollars, be lent to the United States 
Treasury, at six per cent, per annum interest from the first 
day of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred 
and thirty-eight, when the same was received into the said 
treasury ; and that so much of the interest as may have 
accrued on said sum on the first day of Jul}^ next, which 
will amount to the sum of two hundred and forty-two thou- 
sand one hundred and twenty-nine dollars, or so much 
thereof as shall by the Board of Regents of the Institution 
established by this act be deemed necessary, be, and the 
same is hereby, appropriated for the erection of suitable 
buildings, and for other current incidental expenses of said 
Institution ; and that six per cent, interest on the said trust 
fund — it being the said amount of five hundred and fifteen 
thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars received into 
United States Treasury on the first of September, one thou- 
sand eight hundred and thirty-eight, payable, in half-yearly 
payments, on the first of January and July in each year be, 
and the same is hereby, appropriated lor the perj^etual 
maintainance and support of said Institution ; and all ex- 
penditures and appropriations to be made from time to time, 
to the purposes of the Institution aforesaid, shall be exclu- 
sively from the accruing interest, and n(H from the princi- 
pal of the said fund. And he it farther ewacfei/. That all the 
moneys and stocks which have been, or may hereafter be, 
received into the Treasury of the United States on account 
of the fund bequeathed by James Smithson, be, and hereby 
are, pledged to refund to the Treasury of the United States 
the sums hereby appropriated. 

Sec. 3. And be it farther enacted, That the business of the 
said Institution shall be conducted at the city of Washing- 
ton by a Board of Kegents by the name of the Regents of 
the " Smithsonian Institution," to be composed of the 
Vice President of the United States, the Chief Justice 



of the United States, and the mayor of the citj of Wash- 
ington, during the time for which they shall liold 
their respective offices ; three members of the Senate and 
three members of the Houpe of Representatives, together 
with six other persons, other than members of Congress, two 
of whom shall be members of the National Institute in the 
city of Washington, and resident in the said city; and the 
other four thereof shall be inhabitants of States, and no two 
of them of the same State. And the Regents, to be selected 
as aforesaid, shall be appointed immediately after the pas- 
sage of this act — the members of the Senate by the Presi- 
dent thereof, the members of the House by the Speaker 
thereof, and the six other persons by joint resolution of the 
Senate and House of Representatives ; and the members of 
the House so appointed shall serve until the fourth Wed- 
nesday in December, the second next after the passage of 
this act; and then, and biennially thereafter, on every alter- 
nate fourth Wednesday of December, a like number shall 
be appointed in the same manner, to serve until the fourth 
Wednesday in December, the second succeeding their ap- 
pointment. And the Senators so appointed shall serve 
during the term for which they shall hold, without re-elec- 
tion, their office as Senators. And vacancies, occasioned 
by death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled as vacan- 
cies in committees are filled; and the other six members 
aforesaid shall serve, two for two years, two for four years, 
and two for six 3'ears ; the terms of service, in the first place, 
to be determined by lot; but after the first term, then their 
regular term of service shall be six years ; and new elections 
thereof shall be made by joint resolution of Congress ; and 
vacancies occasioned by death, resignation, or otherwise, 
may be filled in like manner, by joint resolution of Con- 
gress. And the said Regents shall meet in the city of 
Washington on the first Monday of September next after 
the passage of this act, and organize by the election of one 
of their number as Chancellor, who shall be the presiding 



officer of said Board of Regents, by the name of the Chancel- 
lor of the " Smithsonian Institution," and a suitable person 
as Secretary of said Institution, who shall also be the Secre- 
tary of said Board of Regents ; said Board shall also elect 
three of their own body as an Executive Committee, and 
said Regents shall then fix on the time for the regular meet- 
ing, of said Board ; and on application of any three of the 
Regents to the Secretary of the said Institution, it shall be 
his duty to appoint a special meeting of the Board of Regents, 
of which he shall give notice by letter to each of the mem- 
bers ; and at any meeting of said Board, five shall consti- 
tute a quorum to do business. And each member of said 
Board shall be paid his necessary travelling and other actual 
expenses in attending meetings of the Board, which shall 
be audited by the Executive Committee, and recorded by 
the Secretary of said Board ; but his services as Regent 
shall be gratuitous. And whenever money is required for 
the payment of the debts or performance of the contracts ot 
the Institution, incurred or entered into in conformity with 
the provisions of this act, or for making the purchases and 
executing the objects authorized by this act, the Board of 
Regents, or the Executive Committee thereof, may certify 
to the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board that such sum 
of money is required; whereupon, they shall examine the 
same, and, if they shall approve thereof, shall certify the 
same to the proper officer of the Treasury for payment. 
And the said Board shall submit to Congress, at each ses- 
sion thereof, a report of the operations, expenditures, and 
condition of the Institution. 

Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That after the Board of 
Regents shall have met, and become organized, it shall be 
their duty forthwith to proceed to select a suitable site for 
such building as maybe necessary for the Institution ; which 
ground may be taken and appropriated out of that part of 
the public ground in the city of Washington, lying between 
the Patent Office and Seventh street ; Provided, The Presi- 



dent of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Sec- 
retary of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary 
of the ISTavy, and the Commissioner of the Patent Office, 
shall consent to the same ; but if the persons last named 
shall not consent, then such location may be made upon any 
other of the public grounds within the city of Washington, 
belongingtothe United States, which said Regents may select, 
by and with the consent of the persons herein named ; and 
the said ground so selected shall be set out by proper metes 
and bounds, and a description of the same shall be made 
and recorded in a book to be provided for that purpose, and 
signed by the said Regents, or so many of them as may be 
convened at the time of their said organization ; and such 
record, or a copy thereof, certified by the Chancellor and 
Secretary of the Board of Regents, shall be received in 
evidence in all courts of the extent and boundaries of the 
lands appropriated to the said Institution ; and upon the 
making of such record, such site and lands shall be deemed 
and taken to be appropriated, by force of this act, to the 
said Institution. 

Sec. 5. And be it farther enacted, That, so soon as the Board 
of Regents shall have selected the said site, they shall cause 
to be erected a suitable building, of plain and durable ma- 
terials and structure, without unnecessary ornament, and of 
sufficient size, and with suitable rooms, or halls, for the re- 
ception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of objects of 
natural history, including a geological and mineralogical 
cabinet; also a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of 
art, and the necessary lecture rooms ; and the said Board 
shall have authority, by themselves or by a committee of 
three of their members, to contract for the completion of 
such building, upon such plan as may be directed by the 
Board of Regents, and shall take sufficient security for the 
building and finishing the same according to the said plan, 
and in the time stipulated in such contract; and may so locate 
said building, if they shall deem it proper, as in appearance 



6 

to form a wing to the Patent Office building, and may so 
connect the same with the present hall of said Patent Office 
building, containing the National Cabinet of Curiosities, as 
to constitute the sai<l hall, in whole or in part, the deposite 
for the cabinet of said Institution, if they deem it expedient 
to do so ; provided said building shall be located upon said 
Patent Office lot in the manner aforesaid : Provided, hoivever, 
That the whole expense of building and enclosures afore- 
said shall not exceed the amount of ; which sura is 

hereby appropriated, payable out of money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated; together with such sum or 
sums out of the annual interest accruing to the Institution, 
as may, in any year, remain unexpended, after paying the 
current expenses of the Institution. And duplicates of all 
such contracts as may be made by the said Board of Re- 
gents shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United 
States; and all claims on any contract made as aforesaid 
shall be allowed and certified by the Board of Regents, or 
the Executive Committee thereof, as the case may be, and, 
being signed by the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board, 
shall be a sufficient voucher for settlement and payment at 
the Treasury of the United States. And the Board of Re- 
gents shall be authorized to employ such persons as they 
may deem necessary to superintend the erection of the 
buildings and fitting up the rooms of the Institution. And 
all laws for the protection of public property in the city of 
Washington shall appl}' to, and be in force for, the protec- 
tion of the lands, buildings, and other property of said In- 
stitution. And all moneys recovered by, or accruing to, 
the Institution, shall be paid into the Treasury of the United 
States to the credit of the Smithsonian bequest, and sepa- 
rate]}' accounted for, as provided in the act approved July 
first, eighteen hundred and thirty-six, accepting said be- 
quest. 

Sec. 6. Ajid be it further enacted, That, in proportion as 
suitable arrangements can be made for their reception, 



all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and 
all objects of natural history, plants, and geological and 
mineralogical specimens belonging, or hereafter to belong, 
to the United States, which may be in the city of Wash- 
ington, in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be 
delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the 
Board of Regents to receive them, and shall be arranged in 
such order, and so classed, as best facilitate the examination 
and study of them, in the building so as aforesaid to be 
erected for the Institution; and the Regents of said Insti- 
tution shall afterwards, as new specimens in natural history, 
geology, or mineralogy, may be obtained for the museum of 
the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate specimens be- 
longing to the Institution, (which they are hereby authorized 
to make,) or by donation, which they may receive, or other- 
wise, cause such new specimens to be also appropriately 
classed and arranged. And the minerals, books, manu- 
scripts, and other property of James Smithson, which have 
been received by the Government of the United States, and 
are now placed in the Department of State, shall be removed 
to said Institution, and shall be preserved separate and apart 
from other property of the Institution. 

Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of the 
Board of Regents shall take charge of the building and 
property of said Institution, and shall, under their direction, 
make a fair and accurate record of all their proceedings, to 
be preserved in said Institution ; and the said Secretary shall 
also discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of the 
museum, and may, with the consent of the Board of Re- 
gents, employ assistants ; and the said officers shall receive 
for their services such suras as may be allowed by the Board 
of Regents, to be paid semi-annually on the first day of 
January and July; and the said officers shall be removable 
by the Board of Regents, whenever, in their judgment, the 
interests of the Institution require any of the said officers 
to be changed. 



8 

Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That the members and 
honorary members of said Institution may hold such stated 
and special meetings, for the supervision of the affairs of 
said Institution and the advice and instruction of said Board 
of Regents, to be called in the manner provided for in the 
by-laws of said Institution, at whicli the President, and, in 
his absence, the Vice-President of the United States shall 
preside. And the said Regents shall make, from the in- 
terest of said fund, an appropriation, not exceeding an 
average of twenty-five thousand dollars annually, for the 
gradual formation of a library composed of valuable V7orks 
pertainijig to all departments of human knowledge. 

Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That of any other moneys 
which have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as interest 
upon the said Smithsonian fund, not herein appropriated, or 
not required for the purposes herein provided, the said 
managers are hereby authorized to make such disposal as 
they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the pur- 
pose of the testator, anything herein contained to the con- 
trary notwithstanding. 

Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That the author or pro- 
prietor of any book, map, chart, musical composition, print, 
cut, or engraving, for which a copyright shall be secured 
under the existing acts of Congress, or those which shall 
hereafter be enacted respecting copyrights, sha^ll, within 
three months from the publication of said book, map, chart, 
musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, deliver, or 
cause to be delivered, one copy of the same to the Libra- 
rian of the Smithsonian Institution, and one copy to the 
Librarian of Congress Library, for the use of the said libra- 
ries. 

Sec. 11. And be it further enacted. That there is reserved 
to Congress the right of altering, amending, adding to, or 
repealing any of the provisions of this act : Provided, That 
no contract, or individual right, made or acquired under 
such provisions, shall be thereby divested or impaired. 

Approved August 10, 1846. 



24th Congress, £ Rep. Nd. 181. ] Ho. of Reps. 

1st Session. 



SMITHSONIAN BEaUEST. 

[ To accompany bill H. R. No. 187.] 



January 19, 1836. 



CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES. 

In the House of Representatives, December 21, 1835. 

The message of the President of the United States, in relation to the 
bequest of .Tames Smitlison, of London, for founding at Washington an 
" institution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men ;" was 
referred to a select committee ; and 

Mr. John Quincy Adams, of Massachusetts, Mr. Thomas, of Maryland, 
Mr. Garland, of Virginia, Mr. Pearce, of Rhode Island, Mr. Speight, of North 
Carolina, Mr. McKennon, of Pennsylvania, Mr. Hannegan, of Indiana, Mr. 
Garland, of Louisiana, and Mr. Chapin, of New York, were appointed the 
said committee. 



i 



Mr. Adams, from the Select Committee on the message of the President 
' relating to the bequest of James Smithson, made the following 

REPORT : 

The Select Committee, to which was referred the message of tlie Presi- 
dent of the United States, of the \7th of December last, with docimients 
relating to the bequest of James Smithso?i, of Londo?i, to the United 
States of America, for the purpose of founding at Washington, an 
establishment under tJie name of the Smithsonian Institution, for the 
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, respectfully report : 

That, from the papers transmitted to Congress with the message of the 
President, it appears, that James Smithson, a foreigner, of noble family and 
of affluent fortune, did, by his last will and testament, made in the year 
1826, bequeath, under certain contingencies, which have since been re- 
alized, and with certain exceptions, for which provision was made by the 
same will, the whole of his property, of an amount exceeding four hundred 
tliousand dollars, to the United States of America, to Ibund at Washington, 
under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the in- 
•crease and diffusion of knov.dedge among men. 

To the acceptance of this bequest, and to the assumption and fulfilment of 
the high and honorable duties involved in the performance of the trust 
committed with it, the Congress of the United States, in their legislative 
capacity, are alone competent. Your committee believe, not only that 
they are thus competent, but that it is enjoined upon them, by considera- 
tions of the most imperious and indispensable obligation. The first steps 
necessary to be taken for carrying into effect the benevolent intentions of 
Blair & Rives, printers. 



<<< 



2 [ Rep. No. 181. ] 

the testator, must be to obtain the possession of the funds, now held by the 
Messrs. Dmnimonds, bankers in London, executors of Mr. Smithson's -will, 
and subject to the superintendence, custody and adjudication of the Lord 
Chancellor of England. To enable the President of the United States to 
effect this object, the committee report herewith a bill. 

But your committee think they would imperfectly discharge their duty 
to this House, to their country, to the world of mankind, or to the donor of 
tliis most munificent bequest, were they to witbhold a few brief reflections, 
which have occurred to rhem in the consideration of the subject referred to 
them by the House. Reflections arising from the condition of the testator, 
from the nature of the bequest and from the character of the trustee to 
whom this great and solenm charge has been confided. 

The testator, James Smithson, a subject of Great Britain, declares him- 
self, in the caption to the will, a descendent in blood from the Percys and 
the Seymours, two of the most illustrious Jiistorkal names of the British 
islands. Nearly two centuries since, in 1(360, the ancestor of his own name, 
Hugh Smithson, immediately after the restoration of the royal family of the 
Stuarts, received from Charles the Second, as a reward for his eminent 
services to that house during the civil wars, the dignity of a Baronet of 
England, a dignity still held by the Dukes of Northumberland, as descend- 
ents from the same Hugh Smithson. The father of the testator, by his 
marriage with the Lady Elizabeth Seymour, who was descended by a 
female line from the ancient Percys, and by the subsequent creation of 
George the Third, in 1766, became the first Duke of Northumberland. 
His son and successor, the brother of the testator, was known in the his- 
tory of our revolutionary war by the name of Lord Percy ; was present, as 
a British officer, at the sanguinary opening scene of our revolutionary war, 
at Lexington, and at the battle of Bunker's hill ; and was the bearer to the 
British Government of the despatches from the commander-in-chief of the 
royal forces, announcing the event of that memorable day ; and the present 
Duke of Northumberland, the testator's nephew, was the ambassador ex- 
traordinary of Great Britain, sent to assist at the coronation of the late 
King of France, Charles the Tenth, a few months only before the date of 
this bequest from his relative to the United States of America. 

The suggestions which present themselves to the mind, by the associa- 
tion of these historical recollections, with the condition of the testator, 
derive additional interest from the nature of the bequest; the devotion of' 
a large estate to an institution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge 



among men. 



Of all the foundations of establishments for pious or charitable uses, 
which ever signalized the spirit of the age, or the comprehensive benefi- 
cence of tlie founder, none can be named more deserving of the approba- 
tion of mankind than this. Should it be faithfully carried into effect, 
with an earnestness and sagacity of application, and a steady perseverance- 
of pursuit, proportioned to the means furnished by the will of the founder, 
and to the greatness and simplicity of his design as by hiiuself declared, 
" the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men," it is no extrava- 
gance &f anticipation to declare, that his name will be hereafter enrolled' 
among the eminent tenefactors of mankind. 

The attainment of knowledge, is the high and exclusive attribute of 1 
man, among the nuniberless myriads of animated beings inhabitants of the 
tciTestriaJ. globe. On him alone is bestowed, by the bounty of th© Creator 
of the universe, the power and tlio capacity of a<xj^iring knowledge^ 



[ Rep. No. 181. ] 3 

Knowledge is the attribute of his nature, which at once enables him to 
improve his condition upon earth, and to prepare him for tlie enjoyment 
of a happier existence hereafter. It is by this attribute that man discovers 
his own nature as the link between earth and heaven ; as the partaker of 
an immortal spirit ; as created for hio-her and more durable ends, than the 
countless tribes of beiui^s which people the earth, the ocean, and the air, 
alternately instinct with life, and melting into vapour, or mouldering into dust. 

To furnish the means of acquiring knowledge is, therefore, the greatest 
benefit that can be conferred upon mankind. It prolongs life itself, and 
enlarges the sphere of existence. The earth was given to man for cultiva- 
tion, to the improvement of his own condition. Whoever increases his 
knowledge, multiplies the uses to. which he is enabled to turn the gift of 
his Creator to his ovv^n benefit, and partakes in some degree of that good- 
ness which is the highest attribute of Omnipotence itself 

If then the Smitlisonian Institution, under the smile of an approving 
Providence, and by the faithful and permanent application of the means 
furnished by its founder, to the purpose for which he has bestowed them, 
should prove effective to their promotion ; if tliey should contribute essen- 
tially to the I'^crea^e and diffasioa of knoivledge among men, to what 
higher or nobler object could this generous and splendid donation have 
been devoted ? 

The father of the testator, upon forming his alliance with the heiress of 
the family of the Percys, assumed, by an act of the British Parliament, that 
name, and under it became Duke of Northumberland. But. renowned as is 
the name of Percy in the historical annals of England, resounding as it 
does from the summit of the Cheviot hills, to the ears of our children, in 
the ballad of GhcA'y Chase, with the classical commentary of Addison ; 
freshened and renovated in our memory as it has recently been from the 
. purest fountain of poetical inspiration, in the loftier strain of Alnwick 
Castle, tuned by a bard of our own native land ;* doubly immortalized as it 
is in the deathless dramas of Shakespear ; " confident against the world 
in arms," as it may have been in ages long past, and may still be in the 
virtues of its present possessors by inheritance ; let the trust of James 
Smithson to the United States of America, be faithfully executed by their 
Representatives in Congress ; let the result accomplish his object, " the in- 
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men," and a wreath of more un- 
fadino- verdure shall entwine itself in the lapse of future ages around the 
name' of Smithson, than the united hands of tradition, history and poetry, 
liave braided around the name of Percy, through the long perspective in 
ages past of a thousand years. 

It is then a high and solemn trust which the testator has committed to the. 
United States of^ America, and its execution devolves upon their Represen- 
tatives in Congress, duties of no ordinary importance. The location of 
the institution at Washington, prescribed by the testator, gives to Congress 
the free exercise of all the powers relating to this subject with which they 
are, by the constitution, invested as the local Legislature for tl;c District of 
Columbia. In adverting to the character of the trustee selected by the 
testator for the fulfilment of his intentions, your committee deem it no in- 
dulgence of unreasonable pride to mark it as a signal manifastation of the 
moral effect of our political institutions, upon the opinions, and upon the 
consequent action of the wise and the good of other regions, and of distant 

* Fitz.srreen Halleck. 



4 [ Rep. No. 181. ] 

climes ; even upon that nation from whom we generally boast of our 
descent, but whom from the period of our revolution we have had too often 
reason to consider as a jealous and envious rival. How difterent are the 
sensations which should swell in our bosoms with the acceptance of this 
bequest ! James Smithson, an Englishman, in the exercise of his rights as 
a free-born Briton, desirous of dedicating his ample fortune to the increase 
and diftusion of knowledge among men, constitutes for his trustees, to ac- 
complish that object, the' United States of America, and fixes upon their 
seat of Government as the spot where the institution of which he is the 
founder, shall be located. 

The revolution, which resulted in the independence of these United 
States, was conimenced, conducted, and consumiuated under a mere union 
of confederated States. Subsequently to that period, a more perfect union 
was formed, combining in one systeni tfie principle of confederate sove- 
reignties with that of a" Government by popular representation, with legis- 
lative, executive, and judicial powers, all limited, but co-extensive with 
the whole confederation. 

Under this Government, a new experiment in the history of mankind is 
now dravvdng to the close of half a century, during which the territory 
and number of States in tlie Union have nearly doubled, while their popu- 
lation, wealth, and power have been multiplied more than fourfold. In 
the process of this experiment, they have gone through the vicisitudes of 
peace and war, amidst bitter and ardent party collisions, and the unceasing 
changes of popular electiojis to the legislative and executive offices, both of 
the general confederacy and of the separate States, without a single execu- 
tion for treason, or a single proscription for a political ©fience. The whole 
Government, under the continnal superintendence of the whole people, has 
been holding a steady course of prosperity, unexampled in the cotemporary 
history of other nations, not less than in the annals of ages past. During 
this period, our country has been freely visited by observers from other 
lands, and often in no friendly spirit by travellers from tlie native land of 
Mr. Smithson. Their reports of the prevailing manners, opinions and 
social intercourse of the people of this Union, have exhibited no flattering 
or complacent pictures. All the infirmities and vices of our civil and 
political condition have been conned and noted, and displayed with no 
forbearance of severe satirical comment to set them ofi'; yet, atter all this, a 
British subject, of noble birth and ample fortune, desiring to bequeath his 
whole estate to the purpose of increasing and difiusing knowledge through- 
out the whole community of civilized man, selects for the depositaries of 
his trust, with confidence unqualified with reserve, tlie Congrets of the 
United States of America. 

In the commission of every trust, there is an implied tribute of the soul 
to the integrity and intelligence of the trustee ; and there is also an implied 
cah for -the faithfiil exercise of those properties to the fulfilment of the 
purpose of the trust. The tribute and the call acquire additional force 
and energy, when the trust is committed for ])erfbrmance after the decease 
of him by whom it is granted, when he no longer exists to witness or to 
constrain the effective fulfillment of liis design. The magnitude of the 
trust, and the extent of confidence bestowed in the committal of it, do but 
enlarge and aggravate the pressure of the obligation which it carries 
with it. The weight of duty imposed is proportioned to the honor con- 
ferred by confidence without reserve. Your committee are fully persuaded,, 
therefore, that, with a grateful sense of the lionor conferred by the testator,. 



[ Rep. No. 181. ] 5 

upon the political institutions of this Union, the Congress of the United 
States, in accepting the bequest, will leel, in all its power and plentitude, 
the obligation of responding to tho confidence reposed by him, with all 
the fidelity, disinterestedness, and perseverance of exertion, which may 
carry into efteclive execution the noble purpose of an endowment for the 
increase and diffusion of knowledge amona: men. 



SMITHSONIAN BEUUEST. 

Message from the President of the United States, in relation to the he- 
quest to the United States, hy James Smithsov, of London, for found- 
ing at Washington an establishment, to be styled " The Smlthson In- 
stitution, for tlte increase and diffusion of knowledge among menP 

Washington, December 17, 1835. 
To the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States : 

I transmit to Congress a report from the Secretary of State, accompany- 
ing copies of certain papers relaxing to a bequest to the United States, by 
Mr.^ James Smithson, of London, for the purpose of founding, at Washing- 
ton, an establishment, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, " for 
the increase and diffusion of knowledo-e amono; men." The Executive 
having no authority to take any steps for accepting the trust, and obtammg 
the funds, the papers are communicated with a view to such measures as 
Congress may deem necessary. 

ANDREW JACKSON. 



Department of State, 

Washmgton, December 16, 1835. 

The Secretary of State has the honor to submit to the President the copy 
of a recent correspondence in regard to a bequest made to the United States, 
for the purpose of founding, at Washington, an institution " for the increase 
and diffusion of knowledge among men ;" and, at the same time, respect- 
fully to suggest the propriety of laying these papers before Congress, with a 
view to the adoption of such measures, on their part, as the nature of the 
subject may seem to require. 

JOHN FORSYTH. 
To the President of the United States. 



Legation op the United States, 

London, July 28, 1835. 

Sir : The papers which I have the honor herewith to communicate to 
you. will acquaint you with the particulars of a bequest of property to a 
large amount,Heft to the United States by a Mr. James Smithson, for the pur- 
pose, as stated in the will, of founding, at Washington, an institutio)i " for the 
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." * * * The letter of 
Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore (fc Fladgate, the solicitors, by whom I was apprised 
of the existence of the will, together with the inquiries I have made, leave 
no doubt of its having been estabhshed, and its dispositions recognised by 
the court of chancery, the first legatee under it having, for several years, 



6 [ Rep. No. 181. ] 

and to the time of his death, received the income of the property, which is 
stated to have amounted to upwards of £,4,000 per annum. 

According to the view taken of the case by the soUcitors, it is now for 
the United States, in the event of their accepcing the bequest and the trust 
coupled w ith it, to come forward, by their representative, and make them- 
selves parties to an amicable suit before the Lord Chancellor, for the pur- 
pose of legally establishing the fact of the demise of the first legatee without 
children, and intestate ; prove their claim to the benefit of the will, and 
obtain a decree in chancery, awarding them the proceeds of the estate. 
Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore & Fladgate are willing to undertake the manage- 
ment of the suit on the part of the United States; and, from what I have 
learned of their standing, may safely be confided in. Not being acquainted 
with the exact structure of our institutions, they are not able to point out 
the exact manner in which the United States should be represented in the 
contemplated suit ; but they believe that their diplomatic agent here, if con 
stituted, for that purpose, the legal representative of the President, would 
be recognised by the court of cliancery as the proper organ of the United 
States, for all the purposes of the will. 

Should it be thought unnecessary to await the action of Congi'ess to 
authorize the institution of the requisite legal proceedings, and should the 
course suggested by the solicitors meet the views of the President, his power 
of attorney, authorizing the diplomatic agent here to act in his name, will, I 
appreliend, be necessary ; and, as the suit will involve some expense not con- 
nected with the contingent fund of the legation, your instructions upontliis 
branch of the subject will likewise be desirable. 

I am, sir, with great respect, 

Your obedient servant, 

A. VAIL. 
John Forsyth, Esquire, 

Secretary of State of the United States, Washington. 



Sir : We send you, enclosed, the copy of a will of Mr. Smithson, on the 
subject of which we yesterday did ourselves the pleasure of waiting upon 
you, and we avail ourselves of the opportunity to repeat, in writing, what 
we verbally communicated. 

Pursuant to the instructions contained in the will, an amicable suit was, 
on the death of the testator, instituted in chancery by Mr. Hungerford, 
against Messrs. Druramonds, the executors, under which suit the assets were 
realized. They were very considerable ; and there is now standing, in the 
name of the accountant general of the court of chancery, on the trusts of 
tlie will, stock amounting in value to about £100,000. During Mr. Hun- 
gerford's life he received the income arising from this property ; but news 
has just reached England that Mr. Hungerford has died abroad, leaving no 
child survivino: him. 

It now becomes necessary that measures should be taken for the purpose 
of getting the decision of the court of chancery, as to the further disposi- 
tion of the property. On reference to the will, it will appear that it is not 
very clearly detined to whom, on behalf of the United States, the property 
sliouM be paid or transferred ; indeed, there is so much doubt, that we ap- 
prehend that the attorney general must, on behalf of the crown of England, 
be joined in the proceedings which it is requisite that the United States 
should institute. 



[ Rep. No. 181. ] 7 

We act in this matter for Messrs. Drumraond, the bankers, who are mere 
stake-holders, and who are ready to do all in their power to facilitate getting 
the decision of the court, and carrying into effect the testator's intentions. 
We shall therefore be happy to communicate with such professional advi- 
sers as your Government may think fit to appoint to act for them in this coun- 
try. In the mean time, we may perhaps be permitted to add, that it is perfectly 
competent for us to carry on the proceedings, on behalf of the United 
States, and possibly some expense and ^elay may be avoided by our so doing. 

Having thus briefly stated the nature of the business, we at present ab- 
stain from making any suggestion as to the party in whose name pro- 
ceedings should be adopted, considering the point should be determined by 
our counsel here, after the opinion of the proper law officers in the States 
has been taken on the subject. 

Any further information you may require, we shall be happy to give you, 
and are, sir, Your most obedient servants, 

CLARK, FYNMORE & FLADGATE, 
Craven street^ ^Strand, 2lst July, 183.5. 
A. Vail, Esquire, 49 York Terrace. 



I, James Smithson, son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and 
Elizabeth, heiress of the Hungerfords of Audley, and niece of Charles the 
Proud, Duke of Somerset, now residing in Bentinck street, Cavendish 
square, do this 23d day of October, 1826, make this my^last will and testament. 

I bequeath the whole of my property of every nature and kind soever, to 
my bankers, Messrs. Drummonds of Charing Cross, in trust, to be disposed 
of in the following manner, and desire of my said executors to put my 
property under the management of the court of chancery. 

To John Fitall, formerly my servant, but now employed in the London 
Docks, and residing at No. 27 Jubilee Place, North Mile End, Old Town, 
in consideration of his attachment and fidelity to me, and the long and 
great care he has taken of my effects, and my having done but very litde 
for him, I give and bequeath t\ye anrmity or annual sum of £100 sterling for 
his life, to be paid to him quarterly, free from legacy duty, and all other 
deductions, the first payment to be made to him at the expiration of three' 
months after my death. I have at divers times lent sums of money to 
Henry Honore Juilly, formerly my servant, but now keeping the Hunger- 
ford Hotel, in the Rue Caumartin at Paris, and for which sums of money I 
have undated bills or bonds signed by him. Nov/, I will and direct that if 
he desires it, these sums of money be let remain in his hands at an interest 
of five per cent, for five years after tlie date of the present will. 

To Henry James Hungerford, my nephew, heretofore called Henry James 
Dickinson, son of my late brother Lieut, ('ol. Henry Louis Dickinson, now 
residing with Mr. Auboin, at Bourg la Heine, near Paris, I give and be! 
queath for his life the whole of the income arising from my property of 
every nature and kind whatever, after the payment of the above annuity, 
and alter the death of John Fitall, that annuity likevv^ise, the payments to 
be at the time the interest or dividends become due on the stocl« or other 
property from w4iich the income arises. 

Should the said Henry James Hungerford have a child or children, legiti . 
mate or illegitimate, I leave to such child or children, his or tlieir heirs, 
executors and assigns, after the death of his, her or their father, the whole 
of my property, of every kind, absolutely and forever, to be divided between 



8 [Rep. No. 181. ] 

them, if there is more than one, in the manner their father shall judg^e 
proper, and in case of his omitting to decide this, as the Lord Chancellor 
shall judge proper. 

Should my said nephew, Henry James Hungerford marry, I empower 
him to make a jointure. 

In case of the death of my said nephew without leavmg a child or chil- 
dren, or of the death of the child or children he may have had under the 
age of 21 years or intestate, I then bequeath the whole of my property, 
subject to the annuity of £100 to John Fitall, and for the security and pay- 
ment of which I mean stock to remain in this country, to the United 
States of America, to found, at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of know- 
ledge among men. 

I think it proper here to state, that all the money which will be standing in 
the French five per cents, at my death, in the names of the father of my 
above mentioned nephew, Henry James Hungerford, and all that in my 
name, is the property of my said nephew, being what he inherited from his 
father, or what I have laid up for him from the savings upon his income. 

JAMES SMITHSON, [l. s.] 



Department of State, 

Washington, September 26, 1835. 

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your despatch of 
28th July last, (No. 197,) relative to a bequest of property to a large amount 
left to the United States by Mr. James Smithson, for the purpose of founding 
at Washington an institution " for the increase and difiusion of knowledge 
amoncr men ;" and to inform you that your letter, and the papers which 
accompanied it, have been submitted to the President, who has determined 
to lay the subject before Congress at its next session. The result of its 
deliberations, when obtained, shall be communicated to you, with the neces- 
sary instructions. 

Of the course intended to be pursued in relation to this matter, as above 
explained, you will take occasion to acquaint the solicitors who apprized 
you of the existence of Mr. Sjinithson's will. 

I am, sir. your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 
Aaron Vail, Esquire, 

Charge cV Affaires of the United States, London. 



In the House or Representatives, Jamim'y 19, 1836. 

On motion of Mr. Chapin. of New York, it was 
Ordered, Tliat five thousand extra copies of the rejx)rt submitted by the 
honorable chairman of the select committee, together with the message of 
the President of the United States, correspondence, and will relating to the 
''^oquest of James Smithson, of London, at Washington, an establishment 
for the increase and difiusion of knowledge among men, be printed for the 
use of the House. 



24th Congress, ^ Doc. No. 51. 1 Ho. of Reps. 

2d Session. Executive. 



BEaUEST OF JAMES SMITHSON. 



MESSAGE 



FROM THE 



PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. 



TRANSMITTING 



The information in relation to the bequest of James Smithson, late of 
London, required by a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 
23d instant. 



December 30, 1836. 

Read, and laid upon the lable. 



To the House of Representatives of the United States : 

In compliance with the resohition of the House of Representatives, of the 
23d instant, I herewith transmit a report from the Secretary of State, to 
whom the resokitiftn was referred, containing all the information upon the 
subject which he is now able to communicate. 

ANDREW JACKSON. 

Washington, December 28, 1836. 



Dkpautaient of State, 

Washington, December 28, 183G. 
The Secretary of State, to whom has been referred the resolution of the 
House of Representatives, dated the 23d instant, requesting the President 
'ii^he shall deem it consistent with the public interests, to communicate to 
that House all information he may have obtained in relation to the bequest 
of James Smithson, late of London, deceased, to found an institution at 
Washmgton for the ditFusion of knowledge among men, since the appoint- 
ment of an agent under the act of Congress of the last session," has the 
honor to report to the President, in answer to the above recited resolution, 
the accompanying copy of a letter from the agent of the United States now 
in liondon. 

Rfespectfully submitted. 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

To the President of the United States. 



ft^^' 



^ 



Blair & Rives, printers. 



a 



[ Doc. No. 51. ] 



Portland Hotel, Great Portland street, 
London., September 14, 18 36. 

Gentlemen : Kefcrrinic to your correspondence with the charg6 d'af- 
faires of the United Stutes,'"in July, 1S35, on the Smithsonian bequest to the 
United States. 1 beg leave to inform you that I have arrived here with full 
pov^rer from the President, founded on an act of Congress, to assert the ris:ht 
of the United States to that bequest, and receive the money. I should ,^ 
happy to have an inter viewwith you on this subject ; to wiiich end I ask the 
fovor'of you to call upon me on Friday morning at 11 o'clock ; or, should 
that be inconvenient to you, at sucli other time, near at hand, as you will 

have the goodness to name. 

I remain your most obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

To Messrs. Clarkk, Fynmop.e & Fladgate, 

jSolicitors. Craven street. Strand. 



London, Septei/iber 24, 1836. 

Sir: 1 b-ad the honor to inform you, on the 31st bf August, of my 
arrival at Liverpool, having embarked in the first ship that sailed from New 
York alter my letter of the 1st of August, informing you that I was ready. 

I reached this city the early part of the present month, and, as soon as 
circumstances would permit, entered upon the duty which the President's 
pov/er of'attornev devolves upon me. 

Towards asserting and prosecutino- with effect before the legal tribunals of 
England ihe claim of the United Sta^tes to the legacy bequeathed to them by 
James SmithsonofLondon, to found. atWashington, an institution -'for the in- 
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men," the first consideration which 
seemed to present itself was, thelielection of fit legal characters here, through 
whose aid and instrumenlality the incipient steps could alone be judiciously 
m^M'kcd out or adopted. In a country where the profession of the law is 
known io be so subdivided as in this, I regarded it important that not only the 
counsel whose services it may ultimately become necessary to engage, but the 
solicitors to be approached'in the first instance, should have a standing 
suited to the nature of the case, and dignity of the constituent 1 represent. 
The letter addressed vou in Julv, 183-5, by the late charg^ d' afiaires of 
the United States at this court, left little doubt, indeed, that Messrs, Clarke, 
Fyamoro, and Fladgate v/ere proper solicitors; yet, as the President's 
power to me, and your instructions, afipeared to place the whole subje/.v 
aiir/w in my hands, some previous incjuiry into their standing seemed 
necessary on my part. Tliis I set on foot, and am glad to say that it ended 
to my satisfaction ; the more, as their connexion with the case in its origin 
naturally pointed to their selection, other grounds continuing to justify it. 

Accordingly, on the 14tli instant, I addressed a note to these solicitors in- 
formino'tbem'that Iliad arrived in this country with full power from the Presi- 
dent, fii^uided upon an act of Congress, to assert the right of the United States 
to the Smithsonian bequest, and recei'^c the money; and requesting that 
they would call upon me on the Kith. A copy of my note is enclosed. This 
is a season of the 3/ear when professional and official business of every kind 



[ Doc. No. 5^ ] 3: 

is much at a pause in London, and those who conduct it dispersed. It 
\vas not until the 2()th that I was enahled to comn)and an interview with 
these gentlemen, when two of them, Mr. Clarke and Mi'. Fladgatc, waited 
upon me, the latter imving previonsly called, after receiving my note, to 
mention the absence of his associates from town. With tliese two, I had 
the preliminary conversation suited to a first interview. They chiefly 
went over the grounds stated in their note of the 21st of .Inly, to our ciiarge 
d'atiaires, Mr. Vail ; in some points enlaroing them and giving new 
particulars. They said that James Smithson, the testator, died in" June, 
1829 ; that his will was proved in the prerogative court of Canterbury, by 
Mr. Charles Drummond, one of the executors, and one of the banking-Jiouse 
of that name in London ; that Henry James Hungerford, the testator's nephew, 
to whom was bequeathed the whole of his property for life, subject to a small 
annuity to another person, brought an amicable suit in chancery against 
Messrs. Drummond, the executors, for the purpose of having the testator's 
assets administered under the direction of the Lord Chancellor ; in the course 
of which suit the usual orders and decrees were made, and by its issue 
assets ascertained and realized to the value of about one hundred thousand 
pounds sterling; that Mr. Hungerford, v/ho resided out of England, re- 
ceived up to the time of his death the dividends arising from the property, 
which consisted of stock in the public funds ; and that he died at Pisa, on 
the 5th of June, 1835, of full age, though still young, witiiout leaving 
been married, and, as far as is yet known, without illegitimate child or 
children : that the assets of the estate are now invested in the name of 
the accountiint-i^-eneral of the court of chancery, subject to the further 
disposition of the court: that the will of Mr. Smithson having made the 
United States the final legatee on Mr. Hungerford's death without child or 
children, legitimate or illegitimate, the facts seem to have happened under 
which their right will attach : but the solicitors continue to think that a 
suit, or legal proceedings of some nature, to whicli the United States must 
be party, will have to be instituted in the court of chancery, in order to 
make valid their right and enable them to get possession of the fund, now 
in the hands of the court, and subject to its judgment. 

The foregoing formed the main purport of their communicalion. TJiey 
added, that the motlier of Henry James Hungerford, who is still livino- 
and married to a Frenchman of the name of Do la Battut, lias put in a 
claim to a part of the property ; but as tiie claim is small and not likely to 
come to much, the mother of Mr. Hungerford not having been married to 
his father, it is scarcely necessary at this time to detail tlie circumstances. 

I asked at what time from the present the earliest sitting of the court 
of chancery would be held. They replied in November. " It will be my 
object to get the fund for the United States Vv-ithout a lawsuit in chancerv 
of any kind, if this bo practicable ; and towards an end so desirable, my 
further reflections and measures will for a v^diile be directed, takint;- care 
that I do not lose the advantao;e of all proper applications at the first term 
of the court, for whatever form of suit or other legal proceedings may b^^ 
found indispensable. 

I have notjiing further of any importance to communicate at this junc 
ture. I delivered to the minister of the United States, Mr. Stevenson, the; 
letter from tlie actinia Secretary of State of July 27th, requesting jiis o-ood 
oflices ill behalf of the public object with v/liich I am charged, siiou'd they 



4 f Doc. No. 51. ] 

be needed ; and I cannot close this letter without adding that I have al- 
ready received co-operation from him that has been useful, and which gives 
earnest of the zealous interposition of his further aid, should it be required. 
I have the honor to remain, with great respect, 

Your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 
To the Hon. .Tohn Forsyth, 

Secretary of isiate. 



25th Congress, Doc. No. 10. Ho. of Reps. 

3d Session. Executive. 



SMITHSONIAN BEQUEST. 



MESSAGE 



fhoji 



THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, 



TUAJfSMITTINC 



Rejjorts from the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury 
upon the subject of the Smithsonian Bequest, in reply to a resolution 
of the House of Representatives of the dth of July last. 



December 10, 1S3S. 
Read, and referred to a Select Committee. ' 



To the House of Representatives of the United States : 
1 herewith transmit to the House of Representatives reports from the 

Secretary" of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, with accompanyino- 

documents, in answer to the resolution of the House of the 9th of July 

last. 

M. VAN BUREN. 
Washington, December 7, 1S3S. 



Department op State, 

Washington, December 6, IS 38. 
The Secretary of State, to whom has been referred a resohition of the 
House of Representatives of the 9th July last, requesting the President to 
(. cause to he laid before the House, during the first week of the present 
^ session of Congress, " all such communications, papers, documents &c. 
now in the possession of the Executive, or which can be obtained as 'shall 
elucidate the origin and objects of the Smithsonian bequest, and the origin 
progress, and consummation of the process by which that bequest has 
been recovered, and whatever may be connected with the subject " has 
the honor to lay before the President copies of all the papers relatin'o- toVt 
now on the files of this Department, and not before communicated. ^ 
Respectfully submitted. 

JOHN FORSYTH. 
To the President of the United States. 



2 Doc. No. 10. 

No. 20. 

IjtGi^'Doi^i, January 30, 18.38. 

Sir : I had yesterday the honor to receive your letter of the 27th of 
December, enclosing the President's renewal ot'my power to prosecute the 
Smithsonian claim, and receive the money for the United States when- 
ever the same may be adjudged. It remains micertain, as intimated in 
my commmiication of the 27th of October, vx^hether the exhibition of the 
new power v.' ill be eventually demanded ; but even if not, I trust the 
President will think it has been erring on the safe side, after what passed, 
to have it in my possession. 

After my letter of the IGth of December, I had fully iioped that the 
evidence of which it makes mention would have been obtained from 
France before this time ; but it seems that the French attornevs, who 
were written to upon the subject by our solicitors, mistook some of their 
instructions at first, which led to delay. They are now in expectation T 
receiving it daily. 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

The Hon, John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



No. 21. 

London, February 12, 1838. 

SiK : Tlie day after my last number was sent off, I received information 
from the solicitors that some of the evidence expected from France had 
arrived, but that it was not of validity to repe! the claim of Madame de la 
Batut. From as much, however, as it disclosed, they pronounced a strong 
opinion that if a formal conmiission issued from the court, evidence might 
finally lie had that would defeat it. 

On fullv weighing what they said, I wrote them, a note on the 3d 
instant, rccpiesting answers to the following inquiries: 

1. What would be the probable expense of a commission? 

2. liow much time would be required for its execution and return ? 

3. Supposing tlie evidence obtained under it to be sufficient in their 
opinion, our counsel's, and my own, to defeat the claim ; yet, as the legal 
advisers of Madame de la Batut might not take the same view of it, and 
thence contest it, what further delays might such a turn in the case become 
the means of producing ? (I enclose a copy of my note.) 

I received an answer from them dated the Sth, a copy of which is also 
enclosed. / 

Referring specifically to my inquiries, it will be seen — 

1. That they estimate the expense of a commission at one hundred and 
fifty pounds. 

2. That they tliink it might be executed and returned within three 
months. 

3. That, assuming the requisite evidence to be obtained, they incline to 
think the suit might be wound up before the rising of the court for the 
lono- vacation, (which means in August next;) but after the introductory 
observations of their note, which advert to the uncertainty of all previous 
calculations as to the duration of suits in chancery, they leave me to judge 
how far this opinion of theirs is to be relied upon ; and they conclude 



l)oc. No. 10. 3 

with an intimation that the case might, in the end, be taken before the 
House of Lords on appeal ; in which event the delay, they add, would be 
" very great." 

I have determined, under these circumstances, not to seek further evi- 
dence by a commission to France or otherwise for defeating the claim, 
and accordingly wrote to them, on the 9th instant, to proceed with all ex- 
pedition in bringing the suit to a close without it. A copy of this note is 
also enclosed. As to bringing interrogatories into the master's office for 
the personal examination of Madame de la Eatut and her husband, as 
adverted to in the answer from the solicitors, I say nothing of the objec- 
tions to that mode of getting at more evidence, the solicitors themselves 
forestalling me by an admission that they could not be certain of its 
success. 

I hope that the determination to which I have come muU be approved 
as judicious. This claim has been already, by full scrutiny and resistance, 
greatly cut down from its original injustice and extravagance, as a refer- 
ence to my No. 12, of the 24th of last June, will show. That it might 
be wholly defeated by going on to pursue measures within our power, I 
incline to believe. The solicitors tell me that they think so decidedly, and 
their letter is to the same eflect. But it is now necessary to balance the 
advantage to be gained by doing so against the time and money it would 
cost. The report in favor of the claimant, as the master has determined 
to make it in the state of the evidence as now before him, will not, by the 
information I have received and heretofore communicated, be likely to ex- 
ceed one hundred and fifty pounds a year, payable during her life; to which 
will have to be added a fev/ years of arrears, calculated on the basis of 
whatever may be the precise amount of the annuity allowed. The claim- 
ant, as fai- as I can learn, is about sixty years old. Hence, supposing 
that measures necessary for the total defeat of her claim occupied only 
another twelvemonth, it seems probable that the very cost of the agency 
for o-oins: on with them, added to all unforeseen legal fees and expenses, 
might p^rove more than the annuity is worth. That the suit would be 
lengthened out another twelvemonth by going into the measures in ques- 
tion, can scarcely, I think, be deemed a strained inference, from all that the 
solicitors say in their letter, not to dwell upon contingencies coming within 
its scope that might make the time longer. Should the suit reach the 
House of Lords, for example, by appeal, it v.^ould not be easy to assign 
a limit to its duration. 

I trust, therefore, it will be thought that I exercise a proper discretion, 
as representing the interests of the United Slates, in determining not to 
expose myself to any of these hazards, and new ones that might even 
chance to spring out of them as time was opened for their operation. It 
seems to me, conclusively, that I should henceforth rather strive to obtain 
a decision of their suit as speedily as possible, regardless of the small and 
temporary diminution of the fund, should it be finally adjudged in their 
favor, wliich the foregoing payments to Madame de la Batut would occa- 
sion. Opposhion has been effectively made to the claim up to the point, 
it is believed, that duty enjoined and prudence would sanction ; to go 
farther seems not reconcilable with the latter, under the certain an4 con- 
tingent delays and dangers I set forth. 

The occasion may be a fit one for remarking, that when this claim first 
assumed a vexatious aspect last summer, my immediate wish and sug- 
gestions were to get a decree in favor of the United States for the general 



4 Doc. No. 10. 

fund, leaving such fractional portion of it sub ju dice as would have been 
sufficient to satisfy the claim if established ; thus cutting short delay from 
this source, by which this agency might have had the chance to be closed 
the sooner, and the bulk of the fund secured to the T'nited States at the 
earliest possible day. The last I hold an object of pressing importance, 
encompassed, as all law-suits more or less are, (to say nothing of the pe- 
culiar nature of this,) by hidden risks. But it was part of the vexation of 
the claim that our legal advisers found the course I desired to pursue im- 
practicable, for the reason mentioned in the letter of the solicitors of the 
22d of July, a copy of which was forwarded with my No. 15 on the 19th 
of August. 

Now that this obstruction is removed from my path by the determina- 
tion I have taken in regard to it, I indulge the hope that no new one will 
be thrown across it; and can only repeat the assurance, that nothing 
within my power shall be left undone towards accelerating the suit, anx- 
iously desiring, on all public and personal accounts, (if I may speak in the 
latter sense,) to see it terminated. 

In the continued hope that the decision, when it comes, may be favor- 
able, I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

The Hon. Johx Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



[With Mr. Ru.sh\s No. 21. ] 

Febuuarv 3, 1S3S. 

Gentle3ien : I understood, when with you on Wednesday, that the 
evidence obtained from France would not, in your opinion, be found suffi- 
cient to prevent the master's report embracing an allowance in Madame 
de la Batiit's favor of about one hundred and fifty pounds a year during her 
life, with some arrearages calculated on that basis : and the evidence, as 
you exhibited and otherwise made it known to me, certainly led my mind 
to the same conchision. 

You added that, by sending out a commission from the court of chan- 
cery to Paris, (a process not yet resorted to,) you thought that evidence 
might still be obtained to defeat her claim ; on which subject I should be 
glad to receive Answers to the following inquiries, as far as in your power 
to give them to me : 

1st. What would be the probable expense of that process.' 

2d. How long before its full execution and return might be expected? 

3d. Assuming that the evidence, when so obtained, struck your minds, 
our counsel's, and my own, as sufficient to defeat the claim; yet as it might 
not happen that the legal advisers of Madame de la Batut would take the 
same view of it, and thence contest its validity before the court, what fur- 
ther delays might such a turn in the case be likely, under all the circum- 
stances, to lead to ? 

As I have so repeatedly made known to you my desire for the speediest 
decision of the case that may be practicable consistently with justice to the 
United States, I make no apology for asking a reply to these mc|uiries at 
as early a day as may be convenient. 

1 remain your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

To Messrs. Clarke, Fvnmore, & Fladoate. 



Doc. No. 10. 5 

[WitliMr. Rush's No. 21.] 

43 Craven-streut, Strand, 

February S, 1S.3S. 

Dear Sir: We have to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 
3d instant, containing certain queries touching the measures whicli may 
be adopted in respect of the claim of Madame de la Batut. 

In reply, we beg to'state that, so long as proceedings in the English 
court of chancery are conducted as amicable suits, when both parties 
unite in a wfsh to obtain the direction of the court, without unnecessary 
delay, it is a matter of no great difficulty to calculate their probable dura- 
tion; but circumstances sometimes arise, even in such suits, that prove 
tfie calculations fallacious. When once, however, a suit ceases to be so 
conducted, and parties come in whose interest it is to throw impediments 
in the way of a decision, any calculation as to either delay or expense 
must be a matter of little better than guess. So many unforeseen points 
may arise, and the practice of the courts affords such facilities for a hostile 
party to obstruct the course of justice, that the most experienced lawyers 
hesitate before they attempt to give an opinion upon the subject. If in 
the present case Madame de la Batut 's claim be further resisted, the suit 
Avill become one to which these observaiions apply; or Madame de la 
Batut might perhaps abandon the claim now brought in, and try to im- 
pede us by filing an original bill for its establishment. We do not think 
this likely, but it is not impossible. 

Havmg said thus much, we will proceed to answer the queries. 
We think that within three months evidence might be obtained of the 
facts necessary to defeat Madame de la Batut's claim, and that such evi- 
dence might be procuredeither by sending over a commission to Paris for the 
examination of witnesses, or by bringing interrogatories into the master's 
office for the personal examination of Madame de la Batut and her hus- 
band. We now know so much of the case that Madame de la Batut 
would hardly venture to deny any of the necessary facts; but this is not 
quite certain. 

We think that the expense of a commission to examine witnesses would 
not exceed £150. The expense of interrogatories for the examination of 
Madame de la Batut would be trilling; probably thirty or forty pounds. 

Assuming that the requisite evidence were obtained, we are inclined to 
think that, notwithstanding Madame de la Batut's resistance, the suit 
might be wound up before the rising of the court for the long vacation ; 
ibut, after the observations we have thought it our duty to make in the 
eariy part of this letter, you will be able to judge how far this opinion can 
be relied on. 

You will bear in mind that the decision of the master is not final. Ex- 
ceptions may be taken to his report, and argued before the court ; and 
even an appeal may be brought against the decision of the vice-chancellor, 
or master of the rolls, and the cause might be taken to the House of 
Lords, The delay under such circumstances would be very great. 
We are vour very faithful and obedient servants, 

CLARKE, FYNMORE, & FLADGATE. 
Richard Rush, Esq. 



Boc. No. 10. 

[With Mr. Rush's No. 21.] 



February 9, 1838. 



Gentlemen : Your communication of yesterday's date was received, 
and is satisfactory by its fulness and candor; 

Under its representations, I determine not to seek further evidence, by 
a commission to Paris or otherwise, for the purpose of further reducing 
the claim of Madame de la Batut. 

Let the master's report in this respect be, therefore, made in the state 
I understood it to have been settled by him ; and, how that I take this 
determination. I trust that it will be made at a very early day. 

I need scarcely reiterate to you my most earnest wishes for a speedy 
decision of the case, or my instructions that you will urge it on with 
all the expedition in your power. 

In the hope that the decision will be in all things favorable, as well as 
speedy, I remain your faithful and obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

To Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore, and Fladgate. 



No. 22. 

London, March 28, 1838. 

Sir : Since the date of my last letter, the report of the master has been 
duly made, and yesterday it was confirmed. 

This is a step forward in the case which I am at length happy to an- 
nounce. It is second in importance only to the decree of the court on the 
whole merits, and has laid the best foundation for speedily obtaining that 
decree. 

The precise sum that the report allows to Madame la Batut is one hun- 
dred and fifty pounds and nine shillings, to be paid to her annually during 
her life, with a payment of arrears, to be calculated on this Ijasis, from 
some period in 1834; the exact date of which I have not at this moment, 
but will mention when I next write. 

The court takes a recess next week for the Easter holidays : these will 
last until the 17th or 20th of April. The case will be set down for an- 
other hearing before the court at as early a day as I can command after it 
reassembles. A decree, I am informed, will be pronounced after this 
hearing on all the facts as settled by the master — a favorable one, as I 
hope, for the United States. 

By the determination I took respecting the claim of Madame la Batut, 
as announced in my last, her professional'advisers, knowing that she can 
now get no more than the report allows her, are interested in co-operating 
with me towards a prompt decision, instead of resorting to adverse pro- 
ceedings to prolong or thwart it — a course which they have been more or 
less pursuing hitherto. 

On better grounds than ever I think I may, therefore, flatter myself tliat 
the case approaches its conclusion ; and I will only add that its remaining 
stages shall be watched by me with a care proportioned to the auspicious 
results that I believe to be near at hand. 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Doc. IN'o. 10. ' 7 

No. 23. / 

London, .dpril 24, 1S38. 
Sir : The court reassembled last week, since which I have been doing 
all that is practicable, by personal calls upon the solicitors and otherwise, 
to urge on the case ; and shall continue this course. 

Judging by all they say to me, and my own knowledge of the pres- 
ent situation of the case, I have a confident and, I trust, well-founded be- 
lief that May will not elapse without its being brought to a hearing. 

Referring to my No. 22, I now beg leave to state that the 22d of Sep- 
tember, 1S34, is the date from which the annuity allowed by the master's 
report to Madame la Batut was to commence ; and tliat the arrears to be 
paid to her, in the event of a decision in favor of the United States, were 
to be computed from that time to the 22d of March last. This makes 
three years and six months, so that the sum due on an annuity of ^61 50 9^. 
would be £526 11^. 6d. 

I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 
Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



No. 24. 

London, May 3, 1S38. 

Sir: I am glad to say that the confidence expressed in my last that a 
hearing of the case was near at hand has been justified, even sooner thaa 
I expected, for it was heard on the 1st of this month, and I am now to 
have the honor of reporting to you the nature of the hearing. 

Mr. Pemberton, our leading counsel, rose, and after recapitulating the 
general nature of the case, as formerly heard by the court, proceeded to 
state that the reference to the master, as ordered by the decree in Febru- 
ary, 1S37, had duly taken place, and that all the requisite evidence had 
been obtained in England and from Italy and France, as to the facts on 
the happening of which the United States were to become entitled to the 
fund bequeathed by Mr. Smithson for the purpose mentioned in his will. 
These facts I need not here repeat, being already set forth specially in my 
No. 9, of the 25th of March, 1S37. 

Overlooking a volume of matter merely technical in the evidence and 
report, or now become immaterial to the mahi points, it will be suificient 
to say that it was satisfactorily established by the former that Henry James 
Hungerford, named in the pleadings, was dead; that he died at Pisa, in 
the summer of 1835; that he was not married at the time of his death, nor 
at any time ; and that he died childless. It was not found how old he 
was at the time of his death ; nor is that material to any of the issues. 
As to John Fitall, it was found that he died in London, in June, 1834 ; and 
as to Madame de la Batut, the mother of Henry James Hungerford, the 
master, on the evidence before him, found her to have a claim on the estate 
of Mr. Smithson to the amount of one hundred and fifty pounds and nine 
shillings a year, payable as long as she lives, and for the arrears of this 
annual allowance from the 22d of September, 1834, to the 22d of last 
March. 

The establishment of all the foregoing facts will be found to meet the 



8 Doc. No. 10. 

essential inquiries to which the master's attention was directed by the 
court's first decree, as reported in my No. 9. Mr. Smithson's will hav- 
ing provided, among other things, that on the death of his nephew, 
Henry James Hungerford, " without leaving child or children,-' the whole 
of his property should go to the United States; and tliis primary fact being. 
]iow incontestably established in due and legal form under the authority 
of tiie court, and all other proof required by the pleadings obtained, jSir. 
Pemberton asked for a decree declaring the United States entitled to the 
property. The representative of the attorney general, who was present 
in court, said that he believed every thing had been estabhslied, as stated,, 
and tiiat the rules relating to public ciiarities, as applicable to this case, 
calling for no objection on the part of the Crown, none would be inter- 
posed — a course that falls in with what was said by the same officer on 
the occasion of the first decree, as reported in my No. 7. 

Tlie counsel of the defendants, Messieurs Drummond, agreed also to 
Avhat was stated, and had nothing to allege in opposition to the claim of 
the United States. 

The coimsel of Madame la Batut were also content ; the course I took,, 
as made known in my No. 21, having put an end to opposition from that 
quarter. 

All essential facts being at leiigth fully and formally established, and 
opposition from all quarters quieted by the measures I have directed, 
there seemed no reason why a decree hi favor of the United States should 
not at once be pronounced; but Mr. Pemberton having stated that, in the 
end, a petition would have to be presented for a transfer of the fund to me, 
as representing the United States, the master of the rolls said that he 
would pause upon his final decision until that petition was presented. 

It is thus that the case now stands. It will come on again one day 
next week, and I have every ground for believhig that my next commu- 
nication will inform you of a decree having passed declaring the United 
States entitled to the fund. 

Should the forms of chancery require any authentication of my power 
to receive the fund that Mr. Stevenson can give, he will be ready, at any 
moment, to give it, as he has assured me ; and should his important aid 
l)e otherwise needed in any way before the suit is closed, I sh.all not scruple 
to call upon him, knowing how zealously h? would afford it. 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

The Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



No. 25. 

London, May 12, IS 38. 

Sir: I have great satisfaction in announcing to you, for the President's 
information, that the case came on to be heard again on the 9th instant, 
when a decree was solemnly pronounced, adjudging the Smithsonian be- 
quest to the United States. 

Both my powers had been previously lodged with the court — not one 

only, as stated in newspaper reports of the case ; and no question was 

aised as to my full authority to receive the money on behalf of the United 

tates, without calling for any further authentication of my powers. 

The suit is therefore ended without fear of more delays; nothing but a 



Uoc. No. 10. 9 

few forms remaining to put me in actual possession of the fund. These 
I have the hope may be completed within the present month. 

The fund is invested in the stocks of this country, of which I shall, in 
due time, have an exact account. The largest portion is in the three per 
cent, annuities. The entire aggregate amounts to fully one hundred thou- 
sand pounds; and this, according to my present information, exclusive of 
about live thousand pounds to be reserved by the court to meet the an- 
nual charge in favor of Madame la Batut during her life ; the sum produ- 
cing it to "revert to the United States when she dies. 

As soon as the decree is formally made up, the accountant general of 
the court will transfer all the stock to me, under its sanction, except the 
small sum to be reserved as above. 

Having no special instructions as to what I am to do whh it, my pres- 
ent intention is to sell the whole, at the best time and for the best prices 
to^be commanded, and bring it over in gold for delivery to the Treasurer 
of the United States, in fulfilment of the trust with which I am charged. 
But I will reflect furtlier upon the mode of bringing it home, and adopt 
that which, under all circumstances, mays^em best. 

The result I announce will, I trust, justify, in the President's eyes, the 
determination I took to let the allowance made to Madame la Batut by 
the master's report stand, without attempting to overset it, whatever 
might have been the prospect or assurance of ultimate success. The 
longer the suit lasted, the greater were the risks to which it was exposed. 
A large sum of money, the whole mentioned above, was to go out of the 
kingdom, unless an heir could be found to a wandering young English- 
man, who had died in Italy at eight or nine and twenty,* and whose 
mother, never lawfully married, still lives in France. Here was basis 
enough for the artful and dishonest to fabricate stories of heirship, on alle- 
gations of this young Englishman having been married. That fact as- 
sumed, the main stumbling-block to their devices would have disappear- 
ed. Fabrications to this effect might have been made to wear the sem- 
blance of truth by offers in the market of perjury of Italy, France, and 
England — incidents like these being fimiiliar to history, whether we take 
public annals, or those of families ; and although the combinations, how- 
ever craftily set on foot, might have been defeated in the end, it is easy 
to perceive' that time and expense would have been required to defeat 
them. The possibility of their being formed (never to be regarded as 
very remote while tlie suit remained open) made it my first anxiety, as it 
was always my first duty, to have it decided as soon as possible, and to take 
care even that it moved on during its pendency with no more of publicity 
to its peculiar circumstances than could be avoided. I trust that both 
these feelings have been discernible in the general current of my letters 
to you, reporting all the steps I have taken in it from my first arrival. 

is^eed I add, as a further incentive to despatch, had further been want- 
ing, that events bearing unfavorably upon the public affairs of this coun- 
try, above all upon the harmony or stability of its foreign relations, 
would not have failed to o])erate inauspiciously upon the suit, if in nothing 
else, by causing stocks to fall. They did begin to fall on the first news 
of the rebellion in Canada, not recovering until the accounts of its sup- 
pression arrived. The case is now beyond the reach of accident, whether 

* Believed to be the age of Henry James Hungerford, though not found in the master's report. 



10 Doc. No. iO. 

from political causes, or others inherent in its nature; and that its fina. 
decision thus early has been brought about by the course adopted in Feb- 
ruary, I arn no longer permitted to doubt. Early may at first seem a 
word little applicable, after one entire year and the best part of a second 
have been devoted to getting the decision ; but when the proverbial de- 
lays of chancery are considered, (and they could hardly have become a 
proverb without some foundation,) it may not, perhaps, be thought wholly 
out of place. Although neither tlie counsel nor solicitors gave their pre- 
vious advice to the course, it being a point of conduct for my decision 
rather than of law for theirs, it is yet satisfactory to be able to state that 
they approved it afterwards. They regarded it as best consulting the 
interests of the United States, on every broad view of a case where a 
great moral object, higher than the pecuniary one, was at stake, enhan- 
cing the motives for rescuing it, at the earliest fit moment, from all the 
unavoidable risks and uncertainties of the future. A fortnight has not 
elapsed since it was said in the House of Commons by an able member 
that " a chancery suit was a thing that might begin with a man's life and 
its termination be his epitaph." 

On the whole, I ask leave to congratulate the President and yourself 
on the result. A suit of higher interest and dignity has rarely, perhaps, 
been before the tribimals of a nation. If the trust created by the testa- 
tor's will be successfully carried into effect by the enlightened legislation 
of Congress, benefits may flow to the United States and to the human 
family not easy to be estimated, because operating silently and gradually 
throughout time, yet operating not the less eflectually. Not to speak of 
the inappreciable value of letters to individual and social man, the monu- 
ments whicii they raise to a nation's glory often last when others perish, 
and seem especially appropriate to the glory of a republic whose founda- 
tions are laid in the presumed intelligence of its citizens, and can only be 
strengthened and perpetuated as that improves. May I also claim to share 
in the pleasure that attends on relieved anxiety now that the suit is ended ? 

I have made inquiries from time to time, in the hope of finding out 
something of the man, personally a stranger to our people, who has 
sought to benefit distant ages by founding, in the capital of the American 
Union, an institution (to describe it in his own simple and comprehensive 
language) for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. 
I have not heard a great deal. What I have heard and may confide in 
amounts to this : That he was, in fact, the natural son of the Duke of 
Northumberland ; that his mother was a Mrs. Macie, of an ancient fam- 
ily in Wiltshire of the name of Hungerford ; that he was educated at^ 
Oxford, where he took an honorary degree in 1786; that he went under' 
the name of James Lewis Macie until a few years after he had left 
the university, when he took that of Smithson, ever after signing only 
James Smithson, as in his will; that he does not appear to have had any 
fixed home, living in lodgings when in London, and occasionally staying 
a year or two at a time in cities on tbe continent, as Paris, Berlin, Flor- 
ence, Genoa, at which last he died ; and that the ample provision made 
for him by tlie Duke of Northumberland, with retired and simple habits, 
enabled him to accumulate the fortune which now passes to the United 
States. I have inquired if his political opinions or bias were supposed to 
be of a nature that led him to select the United States as the great trustee 
if his enlafged and philanthropic views. The reply has been, that his 



Doc. ^0. 10. ' 11 

opinions, as far as known or inferred, were thought to favor monarcliical 
rather than popular institutions ; but that he interested himself little in 
questions of government, being devoted to science, and chiefly chemistry; 
that this had introduced him to the society of Cavendish, Wollaston, and 
others advantageously known to the Royal Society in London, of which, 
body he was a member, and to the archives of which he made contribu- 
tions ; and that he also became acquainted, through liis visits to the con- 
tinent, with eminent chemists in France, Italy, and Germany. Finally, 
that he was a gentleman of feeble health, but always of courteous though 
reserved manners and conversation. 

Such I learn to have been some of the characteristics of tlie man whom 
generations to come may see cause to bless, and whose will may enrol 
his name with the benefactors of mankind. 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

The Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



No. 26. 

London, June 5, 1838. 

Sir : With all my exertions to have the forms necessary for putting me 
in possession of the Smithsonian fund completed in May, it will be seen, 
from the enclosed copy of a letter to me from the solicitors, in reply to one 
I wrote them on the last of May, (a copy of which is also enclosed,) that 
it is only to-day that all the forms have been finally and fully completed. 

After getting this information, I went immediately to the proper depart- 
ment of the accountant general of the court of chancery at the Bank of 
England, and find that there has been transferred to me the following 
stock, viz : 

1. Sixty-four thousand five hundred and thirty-five pounds eighteen 
shillings and nine pence in the consohdated three per cent, annuities, com- 
monly called consols by abbreviation. 

2. Twelve thousand pounds in reduced three per cent, annuities. 

3. Sixteen thousand one himdred pounds in bank stock. 

The books at the bank show the above stock to have been regularly 
transferred to me under the authority of the court of chancery, by the 
accountant general, as the proper officer of the court, in virtue of the 
de.cree reported in my last ; and I have accepted the same on the books, 
on behalf of the United States, by signing my name to a form of accept- 
ance drawn out under each transfer. 

The above stock constitutes, with the exception of five thousand and 
fifteen pounds, the whole property left by Mr.. Smithson to the United 
States, and now recovered for them, with the further exception of some 
small sum in cash, to which the solicitors refer as still to come from the 
accountant general, but of which I have as yet no statement. 

The sum of five diousand and fifteen pounds in consols, it has been 
decreed by the court is to be reserved and set apart to answer the annuity 
payable to Madame la Batut ; the principal to revert to the United States 
on the death of the annuitant. 



12 Doc. No. 10. 

I have taken care to instruct the solicitors to see that there is due prooi 
at all times of the annuitant being in full life as the half-yearly payments 
are made to her. 

Although the aggregate of the stock transferred as above is under one 
hundred thousand pounds in its nominal amount, there is no doubt what- 
ever but that the sale of it will yield more than that sum. 

The transfer by the accountant general was made to me only to-day ; 
and this is so far fortunate as that it could not otherwise have been effect- 
ed as to the principal part of the stock (viz: the three per cent, annuities) 
until the 17th of July, the books closing after to-day for the transfer of 
this species of stock until the date I mention. 

The important operation of selling the stock now remains to be con- 
ducted, and shall claim my careful attention. I design to go into the city 
to-morrow, with a view to adopting the earliest measures for this purpose ; 
taking advice, in aid of my own judgment, for so managing the sales as 
best to promote the interests of the United States. 

I continue to think that the best mode of bringing home the money 
will be in gold, in English sovereigns. Exchange is Iom^, and so will in- 
surance be at this season ; and on all accounts it seems to me the prefer- 
able mode in which to realize the fund, and deliver it over to the Treasurer 
of the United States on my arrival, in final discharge of the trust confided 
to me. 

I shall hope to make some report of my steps by the next packet ; and 
in the mean time have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obe- 
dient servant, 



The Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



RICHARD RUSH. 



[With Mr. Rush's No. 26.] 

May 31, 1838. 

Gentlemen : I need scarcely again make known to you what I have 
so frequently urged in person since the decision on the 9th instant, viz : 
my anxiety to have the necessary document from the proper office of the 
court, by which the Smithsonian fund adjudged to the United States may 
be placed at my disposal. But, whatever the past obstacles which you 
may not have been able to prevent, I must ask the favor of your renewed 
and best exertions for causing me to be put in possession of it at the earli- 
est possible day ; the more so, as we are now at the end of the month, and 
my being invested with the requisite authority is an indispensable pre- 
liminary to arrangements for selling the stock advantageously in June, 
prior to my embarkation with the fund for the United States. Your past 
attention to the case is a pledge to rae that you will do all in your power 
to fulfil my wishes ; in which assurance I remain, 

Your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

To Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore, & Fladgate. 



Doc. No. 10. 13 

[With Mr. Rush's No. 26.] 

43 Craven Street, Strand, June 5, 1838. 

Dear Sir : We beg to assure you, ia answer to your favor of the 31st 
of May, that our endeavors to get through the forms necessary for wmd- 
ing up the suit, and putting you into possession of the Smithsonian fund, 
have not been less urgent and unremitting than have been your appHca- 
tions to ourselves upon the subject. The circumstance of the shutting of 
the offices of the court of chancery for the holidays, at a period when 
they are ordinarily open, and some other petty difficulties not within 
our control, have, however, prevented our getting through all the forms 
in the month of May, as we hoped to have been able to do. 

We have now, however, the satisfaction to announce to you that 
every thing is complete, and that the accountant general of the court of 
chancery has transferred into your name the several sums following : 
•' £64,535 IS 9 consols, 

12,000 reduced annuities, 
16,100 bank stock. 
These sums are entirely at your disposal, free from the control of the 
court of chancery. 

There will be, in addition, a small cash balance, which, hi the course 
of a few days, you will be able to receive of the accountant general. 
We are, very faithfully, your obedient servants, 

CL/^RKE, FYNMORE, & FLADGATE. 
Richard Rush, Esq. 



No. 27. 

London, Jinie 13, 1S38. 

Sir : I am glad to be able to report to you that the sales of the stock 
are going on well. 

The whole of the consols have been sold, and part of the bank stock. 

A portion of the consols, viz : £4,535 18^. 9af, was sold on the 6th 
instant for cash, at 943. This was considered a high price ; more could 
not have been obtained for cash. 

My first desire was to sell all the stock for cash, and immediately, that 
I might the sooner close the whole operation and get away ; but such a 
course I soon found, on the best information and advice, would have been 
injudicious. 

To have attempted a sale of the bank stock, for example, all at once, 
"wfeuld probably have depressed the market for this particular species of 
security, and occasioned a loss of several hundred pounds. The reason is, '' 
that the dealings in it, contradistinguished from those in the great national 
stocks, are limited, and confined to a veiy few persons on the stock ex- 
change. The course which prudence dictated was, to sell it out in small 
parcels, under careful instructions to the broker on each day of sale. 

As it thus became necessary, in order to guard against loss, that I should 
allow myself some little latitude as to time in selling the bank stock, it 
opened a door the more properly for disposing of the other stock on time, 
at a short interval ; the more especially if by that mode it could be made 
to produce a larger sum. 



14 Doc. No. 10. 

Accordingly, on the same day that I disposed of a portion of the consols 
for cash, which served also r.s a feeler to ascertain the cash price, I caused 
the whole of what remained of this stock, viz : £60,000, to be sold on" time 
for tlie 6th July, that being the day after dividend day, which falls on the 
5th of July. 

It ffives me ffreat satisfaction to state that this sale was effected at 95g. 
Up to the day when it was eliected, consols had not brought so high a 
price, as far as I have yet been able to examine the London Mercantile 
Price Current, for nearly eight years before. 

Two sales have been made of the bank stock, viz : one of £3,000, the 
other of £5,000 ; the former at 204 i, the latter at 204| ; both sales being 
for the 30th instant, the money payable and stock to be delivered on that 
day. Should the remainder be sold at these rates, or near them, it will 
be seen that the bank stock, though in nominal amount only £16,100, as 
stated in my last, will yield upwards of £30,000. i 

In the important operations of selling the stock, I am receiving the most ! 
beneficial aid from the constant advice and active daily co-operation in 
all ways of our consul. Colonel Aspinwall, whose long residence in Lon- j 
don and ample opportunities of knowing the mysteries of its great stock 
market, and the minute details of doing business in it, have given him 
the ability to aid me. It is thus that I am sehing to every advantage. 

None of the three per cent, reduced annuities have yet been sold. We 
are watching the market with a viev/ to the most favorable moment for 
> disposing of this part of the* stock. 

The fortunate point of time was hit for selling out the consols. They 
have now sunk a little, and, with the exception of momentary intervals, 
would not have brought as much since the 6th instant as I obtained. 

From the sales made, it is now I think certain that the whole stock will 
yield from one hundred and three to one hundred and five thousand 
pounds, apart from the five thousand and fifteen to be retained here during 
the Ufe of Madame la Batut. 

From the successful manner in wliich they are proceeding, it seems 
clear also, at the present time,tliat the fund, independent of the accumula- 
tions of interest, will be richer in the state hi which I shall deliver it over 
to the United States, than it was hi the summer of 1835, wlien their right 
to it first attached by the death of Henry James Hungerford. 

Left to myself to make the most of the fund after recovering it from 
chancery, which depended so much on the sale of the stock, it has not 
been without full consideration that I did not call on the Messrs. Roths- 
child to sell it all, for which their experience and situation here, besides 
being the bankers of the United States, might have seemed to point them ^ 
out. But, first, th.ey would, I take for granted, have charged a commission \ 
of one per cent., to which I could not have objected, as it is allowed here, 
apart from the broker's commiyrsion, and by the chamber of commerce at 
New York on eftecthig sales of stock ; Avhilst Colonel Aspinwall charges 
iiie no such commission, and I much desired to save the amount of it to 
the fund, if, with his efficient aid, I could conduct the sales confidently and 
advantageously myself But, secondly, if the former, as the bankers of 
the United States, vv'ould have performed the task without charge, I 
should not have been the less disinclined to place it in tlieir hands, having 
had no instructions to do so, and, being without these, I could only exer- 
cise mv best discretion. They are, as I in common with others here sup- 



Doc. ISTo. 10. 15 

pose, very large dealers in stock on their own account, as occasion may- 
serve ; and hence may naturally be supposed to desire sometimes a rise, 
sometimes a fall, in these ever-fluctuating things. With more than a hun- 
dred thousand pounds to throw unon the market, I therefore thought it 
best,, acting on a general rule of prudence in all business, to keep the 
operation of selling entirely clear of every quarter where any insensible 
bias might, by possibihty even, exist to a course other than that which 
would regard alone the Smithsonian fund. 

I design to leave no sale outstanding after the 6th of July. The sub- 
sequent steps, however, for obtaining the gold, and those necessary in 
various ways for shipping it, will render it impracticable forme to embark 
with it in the packet wliicli sails from Portsmouth on the 10th of July, 
that packet leaving London always on the 7th. But I will follow in 
the succeeding one of the 20th of July, which leaves this port on the 17th, 
before which time I trust that every thing will have been fully and satis- 
factorily closed, as far as the trust can be closed here. 

I have tlie honor to remain, with great respect, vour obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

The Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. ' 



No. 2S. 



London, June 26, 1S38. 

Siu : Since my No. 27, the sales of the stock have been going on 
from time to time, and at length are finally closed. 

They have all been good— perhaps I may say fortunate. The prices 
have been high, as compared with the state of the stock market for sev- 
eral years past ; and I am confidently informed that, from the time the stock 
came under my control until I sold it all, no higher prices were obtained 
by any private seller than I obtained. 

The whole of the reduced three per cent, annuities (£12,000) sold at 
94. This description of stock is never as high as consols, but 94 is repu- 
ted nearly, if not quite, as good a price, in proportion to its general value 
in the English stock market, as the 95 g I obtained for the consols. 

Of the bank stock unsold at the date of my last, (viz : £8,100,) I obtain- 
ed 205 for £5,000, and 205^ for the remaining £3,100. Both these 
prices, it will be perceived, are higher than the former ones I obtained for 
this stock. 

The entire amount of sales has more than realized the anticipations 
held out in my No. 27, having yielded an aggregate of rather more 
than one hundred and five thousand pounds, as will be seen when I come 
to render a more particular statement. The two days on which I am to 
make all the transfers are the 30th of this month and 6th of July. The 
money will all be received simultaneously. 

Lnmediately afterwards I shall take measures for converting the whole 
into English gold coin, having finally determined that this is the proper 
mode in which to bring the money to the United States, under the trust I 
have in hand. It appears to me the right course in itself, independent of 
any question of exchange, considering the peculiar object and terms of 



16 Doc. No. 10. 

the law of Congress of the 1st of July, 1836, under which I am acting 
But by the rate of exchange, as quoted at New York under the last dates, 
there would be a gain to the United States, by the best calculations I can 
now make, (though I am aware how exchange is ever liable to fluctuate,) 
of upwards of a thousand pounds on bringing over the money in gold 
rather than remitting it in bills. This would help to cover the commis- 
sions on shipping the former, effecting insurance upon it, and paying the 
premium of insurance, as well as charges for freight and those that have 
been incurred on selling the stock. All these operations demand mercan- 
tile agencies and assistance, to which I am inadequate in my own person, 
beyond superintending them and seeing that they are rendered justly. I 
will take care that these expenses are kept witliin limits as moderate as 
possible, consistently with having the business regularly done according 
to mercantile usage in operations of the same nature, so that the fund, in 
bearing its own unavoidable expenses, may be encroached upon as little 
as possible. 

I have not yet been able to get from the solicitors a statement of the 
costs of the suit, but will not fail to obtain it before I embark. The final 
payments under this head, and those I shall be called upon to make for 
services enumerated above, can scarcely be completed but at the last mo- 
ments of my stay ; hence I may not be able to transmit an account of 
them to you until I arrive at New York, where also the freight will have 
to be paid. 

In reporting to you the final decision of the court, I omitted to mention 
some particulars not at first accurately known to me, but necessary to be 
now stated, viz: £526 11*. 6f/. were decreed to be paid out of the fund 
to Madame la Batut, as her arrears; £25 as arrears found to be due to 
John Fitall, the annuitant under the will ; and, lastly, £53 7*. Gd. as due 
for the use of certain warehouse-rooms in London. The two first items 
explain themselves, after all I have written. The third has reference to 
some personal property left by the testator, contained, as I understand, in 
thirteen boxes or trunks deposited in the warehouse-rooms specified. I 
have had no opportunity as yet of examining the contents of these boxes, 
but am informed that they consist chiefly of books luibound, manuscripts, 
specimens of minerals, some philosopjhcal or chemical instruments/and a 
few articles of table furniture. The contents of the whole are supposed 
to be of little intrinsic value, though parts may be otherwise curious. As 
all now belong to the United States, under the decree of the court, I shall 
think it proper to have them shipped when the gold is shipped, paying all 
reasonable charges. 

Having more than once spoken of the possibility of fictitious claimants 
starting up for the Smithsonian bequest, perhaps I may here be allowed 
to mention what the- solicitors have informed me of, viz : that, since the 
decision, two claimants have presented themselves at their office, neither 
having any connexion with the other. When the decision was pronounced, 
the sum recovered was also proclaimed in the London newspapers, 
which had probably awakened these claimants into life. The solicitors 
add that one of them desired, somewhat importunately, to know if the 
case could not be reheard in court ? . It is needless to remark that he was 
told he was a little too late in his application. 

I will use this opportunity — the last I may perhaps have of writing to 
you before I embark, from the engagements likely to press upon me in 



Doc. No. 10. * IT 

getting the fund ready for shipment and clearing off all necessary ex- 
penses — to say a word of our professional advisers. Of the counsel I se- 
lected it is unnecessary for me to speak : their established reputation in 
the highest department of their profession putting them above any testi- 
monial from me. But of the solicitors, as they move in one of its less 
conspicuous fields, I will barely take the liberty of saying that more at- 
tention, diligence, discretion, and integrity could not, I believe, have been 
ex(?rted by any persons than they have shown throughout the whole suit, 
from first to last. Could they ever have forgotten what was due to the 
United States and to themselves, in the desire to eke out a job, nothing is 
plainer to me, from what has been passing under my observation of the 
entanglements and delays natural to a heavy suit in the English court of 
chancery, than that they might have found opportunities in abundance of 
making this suit last for years yet to come. 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

The Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



No. 29. 

London, July 14, 1S3S. 

Sir : All the transfers of stock were made on the proper days ; all the 
money was received, and arrangements are now in daily progress for ob- 
taining, insuring, and shipping the gold. It will be on board the New 
York packet Mediator, Captain Champlin, by or before the 17th instant, 
in which ship I have taken my passage, intending to embark on that day. 
The costs of suit have been paid, but the other expenses, arising out of 
the sale of the stock and shipment of the proceeds, cannot be examined 
and settled until immediately before I embark, as the vs^hole of the oper- 
ations caimotbe completed until then. It will hence not be in my power 
to make a statement of all these expenses until I arrive at New York or 
Washington, when it shall be rendered in a manner that I trust will be 
satisfactory. I can only repeat that my best exertions have not been 
spared to keep them all within a compass as moderate as possible. 

I received at the Bank of England, day before yesterday, £900, being 
the interest on £60,000 of consols sold on the 6th of June. It will be re- 
membered (see my No. 27) that this amount of the consols was sold on 
time, the stock not being deliverable until the 6th of July, which was the 
'day after the dividends for the last six months fell due, by wliich I became 
entitled to receive for the United States the above sum of £900. 

The boxes and trunks mentioned in my last are to go on shipboard to- 
day. Before knowing any thing of their contents, I thought proper to 
have them opened and examined in the presence of our consul and two 
other persons. A large portion of the contents proved to be unimportant; 
nevertheless, all will be delivered over on my arrival as I received them, 
except to have them better packed for a sea voyage, and so as to prevent 
further injury to that which time and bad packing have already done to 
them. 

I design to leave this letter behind me, to be forwarded by the British 

o 



18 Doc. No. 10. 

steamer Great Western, which, ahhough not to sail until after the Medi- 
ator, may be expected to arrive first at New York. My going in the Great 
Western has been precluded by the fact of her accommodations for pas- 
sengers having all been engaged long before I knew the time when I 
should be able to close the business in my hands, and have the gold ready 
for shipment. 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

Hon. JouN Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



No. 30. 



Harbor of New York, August 28, 1838. 

Sir : I have the honor to report to you my arrival here in the ship Me- 
diator, with the amount in gold of the Smithsonian bequest recovered for 
the United States. 

The expenses, of every kind, incurred by closing the btisiness in Lon- 
don and shipping the gold, were paid there ; but I have still to pay freight 
here and primage, and also some other small charges incurred on bringing 
over the Smithsonian boxes and trunks heretofore mentioned. When every 
thing is fully paid, there will be left in my liands, as well as I can now 
compute the amount, upwards of ^6104,500 ; the whole is in sovereigns, 
packed in boxes. 

The money being consigned to no one here, I must continue to hold it 
in my custody luUil I can receive your instructions to whom to deliver it, 
as provided for by the act of Congress of the 1st of July, 1836. 

I have the honor to remain, in the mean time, your most faithful and 
obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Department of State, 

Washington^ August 30, 1838. 
Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your despatch 
No. 30, of the 2Sth instant, announcing your arrival in the harbor of New 
York, with the Smithsonian bequest in gold. With regard to the disposi- 
tion to be made by you of these funds, you no doubt will have learned, 
upon landing, that your request had been anticipated by instructions to 
you from the Treasury Department, intrusted to the care of Mr. George 
Newbold, president of the Bank of America. 

Tendering to you my congratulations on the success of your mission, 
a;id on your safe return to your country, I am, sir, respectfully, 

Your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 
Richard Rush, Esq., 

Neiv York. 



Doc. No. 10. 19 

No. 31. 

New York, Jiugust 29, 1838. 

Sir : On landing from the ship yesterday morning, I received the offi- 
cial letter of the Secretary of the Treasury, dated the 20th of July, which 
had been waiting my arrival here, instructing me to transfer the Smith- 
sonian fund to Philadelphia, to be deposited with the Treasurer of the 
Mint, to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States, taking duplicate 
receipts from the former, one of which to be transmitted to the latter. 

The ship has not yet got into the dock, but the gold shall he sent on to 
Philadelphia, as soon as practicable, in the eleven boxes in which it was 
packed at the Bank of England, according to the instructions I have thus 
received from the Secretary of the Treasury. 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



No. 32. 



Philadelphia, Sej)te?7ibcr 4, 1838. 

Sir : I was yesterday honored with your letter of the 30th of August, 
acknowledging my No. 30 from the harbor of New York, and tender my 
thanks for your kind congratulations on my return to my own country, 
and on the success of the public business confided to me. Your letter 
went on to New York, as directed, but was returned ; and I received it at 
my home, near this city. 

My No. 31, written after I had landed, will have informed you that 
I had then received the instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury to 
which your letter refers, and I have since been in correspondence with 
him. Owing to the delay in getting the ship into the dock, I was not able 
to leave New York with the gold until the 1st of this month, when I ar- 
rived with it, accompanied by two agents from the Bank of America, that 
institution having, at the request of the Secretary of the Treasury, obliging- 
ly aftbrded me every facility in its power towards the business I had in 
hand. I did not, however, feel at liberty to withdraw my own personal 
superintendence from the operation of transferring the gold, until I saw it 
deposited at tlie Mint. Thither I immediately had it conveyed on reach- 
ing this city on the 1st instant, the director and treasurer of the Mint 
having been in readiness to receive it under the previous information of 
its intended transfer, which I had requested the bank to transmit. The 
entire sum contained in the eleven boxes which I delivered to those two 
officers of the Mint on Saturday, was £104, 9G0 8*. 6d. — the whole in 
English sovereigns, except the change ; and 1 have now the satisfaction of 
informing you that official receipts of this amount from my hands have 
been forwarded to the Treasury Department. 

The excess of this sum over that which 1 had computed in my No. 30 
as the probable amount to be left in my hands, arises from tiie president 
of the bank having undertaken, at my suggestion, to pay the freight and 
other shipping-charges due at New York ; the bank to be repaid by the 



^^ Doc. No. 10. 

Treasury. The freight was three-eighths of one per cent.— this bein? the 
usual charga m the packet-ships-and came to ^393 12^. PrimaSe 
was £ 19 1 3s. S6' ; and the charges ou brhiging over the Smithsonian boxes 
(left m the custody of the collector, from whom I had eveiy facility on 
landmg) were to have been £3 8s. 5d., or thereabouts - ^ 

It seemed to me that it would be best for the bank to pay all these 
charges, as the most convenient mode of setthng without delay with the 
ship-owners, to whom I had become responsible by my en^a^elZTwth 
the captan. m London ; and I have the hope that this Jouile wm le Uhe 
approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury and yourself. It Lft he 
gold as secured in boxes at the Bank of England untouched at New 

7ot4"f,hem """'''' ''''^°'°"^' ^"""^^^ ^--^-^- '- ^ffi-ed 
Somewhat worn down by fatigue since coming on shore, after an un 
comfortable voyage of squalls, gales, and head-wmds, I ve itu e to Lra 
ttle lepose at my home before proceeding io Washington, for the pur- 
pose of making out and rendering to you Sn account of all 'expenses fhat 
have a ended the i^nal recovery of this fund, of which the LhS Sta es 
by the niformation I give you in this letter, are now in possession Ii he 
course of the next week I shall hope to proceed to Washington wih e 
view stated ; and m order that, mj. account of the ex,?; S beinTfonnd 
satisflxctory, which I presume to hope will be the ca^e liv Tsk tnlt 
discharged from all further responsil'ility under the trust I la/e t^'r 
fornung The nett amount, m dollars, of the fund as I delivered to verto 
he Lmted States at the Mint, was found to be five hundred and eii^ 
thousand three hundred and eighteen dollars forty-six cen s So? si s 4? 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient seiwant 
The Hon. Johx Foksvth, RICHARD RUSH. ' 

Secretary of State. 



No. 33. 



Philadelphia, -SV/;/e7;z6er 11, 1S3S 
Sir : I yesterday received a letter from the Secretary of the Treasu'w 
dated the 7th instant, stating it to be desirablp tli^t tillJ -lieasuiy, 

•the transfer of the Smithsonian fund t^tlt count ^%'^P^ 

operations of selling the stocrirtlu F .1 V i^ ^ ' ''"^^^ /^-'^^^ '^^^ '^^^^^^^ 



Doc. Ko. 10. 21 

had my constant supervision until I saw the latter finally deposited at our 
Mint, in fulfilment of his instructions; that, having suffered greatly from 
sea-sickness during the voyage, added to fatigue after landhig in a weak 
state at New York, where the care of the gold still required my personal 
superintendence, I had been unable hitherto to prepare a statement of the 
expenses in question, but that I was now regaining strength and intend- 
ed to set out for Washington on Saturday, at farthest, if then able, as at 
present I had reason to hope would be the case. I added, that I supposed 
a settlement of my account could be effected more satisfactorily and 
promptly by my presence with the accounting officers at Washington 
than by any attempt to make it out here, and transmit it by letter, which, 
it may be, might lead to writing backwards and forwards before a final 
adjustment took place : of which correspondence I have the honor to 
inform you, and to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

Honorable John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Department op State, 
Washington, September 18, 1S38. 
Sir : I have the honor to transmit, herewith, two letters from Mr. Rich- 
ard Rush, Nos. 34 and 35, with the papers which accompanied them, in 
relation to the amount recovered of the Smithsonian legacy, and the ex- 
penses attending the recovery, and the transmission of the proceeds to 
this country. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

Honorable Levi Woodbury, 

Secretary of the Treasury. 



No. 34. 



Washington, September 15, 1838. 

Sir : I am now to give you a statement of all the expenses that at- 
tended the recovery of the Smithsonian bequest for the United States. 

It may be in order first to mention the whole amount of stock and mo- 
ney that came into my hands from the court of chancery, or otherwise. 

I received of English Government stock £645,535 I'Ss. 9d. in consols, 
5612,000 in reduced three per cent, annuities, and £16,100 in bank stock of 
the Bank of England, as heretofore mentioned in my No. 26, and will 
now be seen by the original order or decree of the court, which I enclose, 
■(marked A.) This document I could not obtain until the Uth of July, 
when I received it with the letter of the solicitors of that date, also en- 
closed, (marked B.) 

On the Uth of June I received from the accountant general of the 
court of chancery £725 3^. Id. This was the sum remaining to be paid 
to me, after previous payments to others, out of cash in hand appertaining 
to the Smithsonian fund whilst in the custody of the court, as will be seen 



22 Doc. Ko. 10. 

iu the concluding part of the decree. That this v/as the exact residue 
coming to nie, will be further seen by an explanatory letter from ttie 
solicitors of the 5th of July, also enclosed, (marked C,) and more au- 
thoritatively by a document (marked D) from the books of the account- 
ant general of the court, sent to me by the solicitors, with their letter of 
the 11th of July. This document, besides verifying in its own forms the 
amount of stock and money I have otherwise stated myself to have re- 
ceived, also v^erifies the statements in my Nos. 26 and 2S, as to the 
sums awarded to Madame de la Batut, the arrears to John Fitall,and the 
money decreed as warehouse-rent for the boxes containing the personal 
effects of Mr. Smithson, which I brought over and delivered into the cus- 
tody of the collector at New York. It is a document founded on the de- 
cree of the court itself, and shows in more detail iiow its judgments were 
fulfilled. 

I received on the 12th of July £900 at the Bank of England, being the 
dividend due on the consols I had sold, as mentioned in my No. 29 ; 
and, lastly, I received from tlie solicitors £116 2s. 2d., being money re- 
turned by them out of what I liad paid tiiem for costs on the Sth day of 
April, 1837, viz : £200 4*., as reported in my No. 14. The following 
is the explanation of this item : When I paid them this sum, I fully ex- 
pected to pay all further costs out of the same fund, then in my hands, 
that Congress had appropriated for that purpose ; but it appears that, on 
the termination of the suit in favor of the United States, the costs of all 
parties were paid out of the corpus of the fund ; nor would the court 
award the fund to the United Stales, as may be seen by the decree, until 
all costs were accordingly first taken out of it, which the court judged it 
proper the fund itself should bear. I knew not of such a rule which the 
solicitors advert to. in their letter of July the Sth, until a short tune before 
the decree was pronounced. The total amount of their costs, as made 
known to me in tlie same letter, and set out in detail in a volumhious bill, 
which I enclose, (marked E,) and to which I caused their affidavits to be 
annexed, was £490 4^. \0d. The court adjudged £406 3s. of this sum 
to be paid to them out of the fund, as their taxed costs, which, added to 
what I had previously paid them, made £606 7^. The difference be- 
tween this and £490 As, lOd. being £116 2s. 2d., they refunded the 
latter sum to me. Their total bill, (considering that it included all fees paid 
by them under my direction to the counsel, and all costs and charges of 
every description from the beginning to the end of the suit, with some 
small extra charges, to which their letter refers, which I also authorized, 
to ensure a speedy and successful termination of the suit,) and considering 
the magnitude of the suit, was, in my judgment, and in that of others 
better informed, to whom I submitted its amount, extremely moderate. 
I hope it will be thought to show care on my part to keep all those charges 
low, that often are run up to amounts so enormous in English chancery 
proceedings ; and, let me add, as in justice I am bound to do, to show more 
strongly that the solicitors I had to deal with were honorable and just 
men. 

I did not consider these refunded costs as belonging to the legacy fund 
recovered, l-ut I threw them into it when the general gold was obtained, 
that all might be safely kept together, and come under one insurance. 

The gross amount yielded by all the stock I sold, including the £900 I 
received as the dividend on the consols, was £105,649 6s. 



IJoc. No. 10. 2S 

For the prices at which I sold the different parcels and kinds, I beg to 
refer to my Nos. 27 and 28, which detail the commencement, progress,- 
and conclusion of the sales. This sum, added to the £725 3s. Id. re- 
ceived from the accountant general of the court of chancery, and the 
£116 2s. 2(1. returned to me by the solicitors, will show that the entire 
sum that came into my hands was £106,490 lis. 9d. 

I am next to inform you of the expenses that attended the sales of the 
stock, and shipping and bringing over the gold to this country. 

After I had finally recovered the legacy from the court of chancery, it 
did not seem to me prudent that I should, by myself alone, undertake the 
sales of the stock awarded, and delivered to me by its decree, any more 
than the shipment of the gold, into which the money was afterwards to 
be converted ; these ulterior operations being usually conducted through 
mercantile agencies, and being of a nature not to be advantageously, if 
safely, conducted without them. Feeling inadequate, in ijiy own person 
merely, to the management of such operations, my first intention was 
that the sales of the stock, as a highly important part of them, should be 
put under the direction of some experienced mercantile or banking-house 
m London, familiar with the modes of doing business on its great stock 
exchange, and self-confident in the measures to be taken. But I found 
that to put this operation into such hands v/ould incur a commission oi 
one per cent, on the entire fund, as mentioned in my No. 27, in addition 
to brokerage and other charges, such as the expenses on transfers and 
stamps ; besides that, I should have had to part with the possession of 
the stock to such mercantile or banking-house whilst the sales were going 
on. I was also given to understand that tiiis latter step would probably 
lay a foundation for a further mercantile commission on receiving and 
paying. . . , , 

Weighing all these circumstances, I came to the conclusion to keep tne 
•operation of selling the stock in my own hands. Nevertheless, I felt, as 
already intimated, that I could coiiduct it with neither skill nor safety 
unless under the counsel and co-operation of a person well informed m 
these matters, and trustworthy. To the consul of the United States in 
London reapplied as to such a person, and received from him, as my No. 
27 informed you, this aid and co-oper ition, in the fullest and most effi- 
cient manner, daily, throughout the monihs of June and July, until all 
the sales were effected; and effected, I may be allowed to add, with fa- 
vorable results not to have been surpassed, as I have already reported to 
you, and as the public records of the liOndon stock market on each of the 
days that I sold will attest. Into his hands I also put the other mercan- 
tile business necessary to the shipment of the gold. These included the 
obtaining, verifying, arranging, packing, and securing it for shipment, 
contracting for freight, entering and clearing at the custom-house, effecting 
insurance, (which was done at five principal offices and with thirty-two 
private underwriters,) and, finally, shipping the gold. For these services, 
of whatever kind, (and I had many incidental ones from him, not liere 
enumerated,) I allowed and paid him a commission of three-fourths of 
one per cent., Avliich amounted to £797 15^. 6d. 

I speak from good information when expressing a belief that an equal 
amount of assistance and services to me, under all the heads rendered, 
could not have been commanded through the usual agency of banking 
and commercial houses, on so heavy and responsible a moneyed operatiouj 



m -Doc. No. 10. 

at a less charge to the fund than a commission of from two to two and a 
half per cent, on the whole amount of it ; and that this falls below rather 
than goes beyond what it might be expected to have been. 

I enclose the consul's account, signed T. Aspinwall, together with 
his voucher for a charge of £6 19s. 4d. for expenses paid by him on 
shipping the 14 Smithsonian boxes. 

The premium for insurance was one half of one per cent., and amounted, 
with the expense of stamps and policies, to £599 3s. 4d. The statement of 
this, as paid for me by the consul, will be seen in the enclosure, (marked 
"Invoice,") on which are also certain items, as dock charges, charges for 
bills of lading, and some other things, amounting in all to £,Q Os. 6d., ac- 
companied by vouchers. I also enclose the policies of insurance.* Tiie 
insurance covered all commissions and charges paid in London, so as 
to haVe made the United States entirely whole in case of loss. This I 
directed, thinking it most prudent. 

The expenses on selling the stock, viz : brokerage, charges on the trans- 
fers, and charges for stamps, were £120 4s. 6d. These will be seen in my 
account, marked among the enclosures R R. 

The several expenses above enumerated, viz : 

1st. The consul's commission of £797 15^. 6^., and charges £6 \9s. Ad. 

2d. The premium of insurance, stamps, and policies, viz : £599 3*. Ad., 
with the charges £6 Os. 6d. 

And 3d. The expense of selling the stock, viz : £120 4^, 6d., deducted 
from the gross amount of moneys that came into riiy hands, viz : 
£106,490 lis. 9^/., will leave £104,960 S*. Id., which was the precise 
sum in gold I brought over in the eleven boxes, and, under instructions 
from the Secretary of the Treasury, deposited at the Mint in Philadel- 
phia, on the 1st instant, to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States. 

The foregoing is the statement I have to make of the expenses. I pre- 
sume to hope that they will not be thought objectionable, but, on the con- 
trary, moderate under all the heads. If I have been somewhat minute 
in explaining them, it is for the better understanding of the different ac- 
counts and documents enclosed, trusting that this will be my excuse when 
about to surrender up a trust where so much pecuniary responsibility has 
devolved upon me. 

In regard to the 14 boxes containing the personal effects of Mr. Smith- 
son, it will be perceived that the letter of the solicitors, of the 5th July, 
mentions that they had sent me a list of them. They did so, and I en- 
close it, (marked F.) It is proper to remark, that this list refers to but one 
of the boxes, or rather to a trunk, as their letter specifies, and it proved to 
be erroneous. I preferred that all these boxes, and the trunk, should be 
first opened at the consulate, in presence of the consul and others, who 
might aid me in ascertaining their contents. When the trunk was open- 
ed, several of the articles down upon the list were not in it. I mentioned 
this to the solicitors, and it produced the explanatory letter from them of 
the 13th of July, which I enclose, (marked G.) All the rest of the boxes 
were filled witli things of little intrinsic value, as far as a mere superficial 
inspection of them, pressed upon me on the eve of my embarkation, coald 
determine. They seemed to be chiefly old books, pamphlets, manuscripts, 

• It has been deemed unnecessary, at the Department of State, to communicate copies of the 
several policies of insurance above referred to. 



Doc. No. 10. 25 

and some philosophical or chemical instriihients. Of the whole contents, 
(such as they were,) all were lett as we Ibmid them, except to have been 
repacked, with the aid of the consul and his assistants, and put in a better 
state for crossing the sea than they were when delivered to me. When 
first opened, it was evident that time, mould, and careless packing in the 
first instance, had nearly destroyed many of the articles. 

The freight payable on the gold was not paid in London, not being due 
until the arrival of the ship at "New York; but the consul agreed with 
the captain for three-eighths of one per cent., which brought the amount 
to £393 I2s. Primage was £19 13^. Sd. ; and the freight and primage on 
the 14 Smithsonian boxes was to have been £3 8s. 5d.- These several 
charges I was necessarily obliged to assume for the United States, and 
engaged to pay them when the ship got to New York. On arriving there, 
I received the instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury, of the 20th of 
July, directing me to transfer the gold to the Mint at Philadelphia as soon 
as practicable ; it being added that the president of the Bank of America 
at New York had been requested to render me any facilities in his power. 
The captain of the ship being content to take the bank as payment for 
these last-mentioned charges, I thought I should best consult the spirit of 
the Secretary's instructions by leaving the bank to pay them, which its 
president expressed an immediate readiness to do. I supposed it could 
make no difference to the Government, in the end, whilst it saved the ne- 
cessity of opening one of the boxes of the gold at New York, out of which 
fund alone I could have made the payment if demanded of me under the 
engagement I had contracted. The bank may have further charges to 
make for its aid to me otherwise in removing the gold to the Mint, but I 
know nothing of them in detail. 

Referring, therefore, to that part of the Secretary's letter to me of the 
7th instant, which I mentioned in my No, 33, asking a statement of 
expenses attending the transportation of the gold after its actual shipment 
at London, and its transfer to the Mint at Philadelphia after its arrival at 
New York, I beg to offer the above explanation, having paid nothing 
myself, 

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

Hon, John Forsyth, 

Secretary of Stale. 



26 Doc. No. 10. 

A. 

IN CHANCERY, May 12, 1838. 

President of the United States, ) 

vs. \ Order on further directions. 

Drummond. ) 

AT THE ROLLS, , Master o} the Rolls— £3 10s.— 76. 

Between the President of the United 1 c- / / ^t. .^.^ . r n^ 
Stales of America, plaintiff, ^[iturday, ,the 12 th day of May, 

ard t ^'^ ^^'*/ year oj the reign of 

Charles Drummond and her Majes- | ^'Z. ^^''>^^ ^^"^^'^ Fictoria, 
ty's Attorney General, defendants. J ^ ^'''^' 

This cause coming on the 1st day of February, 1837, to be heard and 
debated before the right honorable the master of the rolls, in the presence 
of counsel learned on both sides, his lordship did order that the plaintifi"'s 
bill should be amended, by stating the act of Congress passed in the year 
1836 ; and the said bill being amended in court accordingly, upon hear- 
ing the same act of Congress, and also the power of attorney granted to 
Richard Rush, Esq., mentioned in the said bill as amended, read, His 
lordship did order that it should be referred to the master to whom the 
cause of Hungerford vs. Drummond stood transferred, to carry on the ac- 
count directed by the decree of the 15th day of December, 1829 ; and it was 
ordered that the said master should inquire whether John Fitall, in the 
pleadings of this cause named, was living or dead ; and, if the said master 
should find that the said John Fitall was dead, then it was ordered that 
he should inquire and state when he died. And it was ordered that the 
said master should inquire whether Henry James Hungerford, in the plead- 
ings also named, was living or dead ; and if the said master should find 
tliat tlie said Henry James Hungerford was dead, then it was ordered that 
he should inquire and state when he died, and whether he was married or 
unmarried at the time of his decease ; and, if married, whether he left any, 
and what, children or child him surviving ; and the said master was to 
inquire and state the ages of such children, respectively, if more than one. 
And it was ordered that the said master should inquire and state to the 
court whether Madame de la Batut had any claim on the said testator 
Smithson's estate ; and, for the better discovery of the matters aforesaid, 
the usual directions were given, and his lordship did reserve the considera- 
tion of all further directions, and of the costs of this suit, until after the 
.said master should have made his report. That, in pursuance of the said 
decree, the said master made his report, dated the 23d day of March, 1838, 
which stands absolutely confirmed by an order dated the 27th day of 
March, 1838, and thereby certified he' found that the sum of £53 7*. 6d. 
was justly due and owing to Messrs. Thomas Clarke & Co., the solicitors 
for the defendant Charles Drummond, from the estate of the said testator ; 
and he found that the said John Fitall was dead, and that he died at Bush 
liouse, Wanstead, in the county of Essex, on the 14th day of June, 1834 ; 
and he found that the said Henry James Hungerford assumed the name 
of De la Batut, and was known as Baron Eunice de la Batut, and died at 
the Royal hotel, called the Donzelle, situate at Pisa, on or about the 5th 



Boc. No. 10. 27 

day of June, 1S35. without ever having been married, and without leav- 
ing any issue. And the said master certified that he was of opinion and 
did find tliat the said iviary Ann de la Batut, in her right, was entitled to 
a claim on the estate of the said testator, James W. Smithson, for an in- 
terest during the life of the said Mary Ann de la Batut, in a moiety of 
the annual income or sum of 7,073 livres de rentes, in the report men- 
tioned, amounting in value to the animal sum of £150 9s. sterling money 
of Great Britain and Ireland, calculated at the current rate of exchange in 
the city of London, on tiie Sth day of March, 1S38; and he found that the 
income arising from the said Frencli stock or fund, called livres de rentes, 
was payable and paid half-yearly by the French Government, on or about 
the 2 2d day of March and the 2 2d clay of September in each year ; and he 
also found that there was due and owing to the said Mary Ann de la Ba- 
tut, (or the said Theodore de la Batut, in her right,) from the estate of the 
said testator, James Smithson, the sum of 13,427 francs 75 centimes, for 
arrears of the said annuity, from the 22d day of September, 1834, to the 
22d day of March, 1838, amounting in value to £526 lis. 6d., sterling 
money of Great Britain and Ireland, calculated at the current rate of ex- 
change in the said city of Loudon, as aforesaid ; and he found that the 

j annual income or annuity to v/hich the said Mary Ann de la Batut 
* (or the said Theodore de la Batut, in her right) was entitled for her 
life out of the estate of the said testator, James Smithson, amounting to 
£150 9s. sterling money of Great Britain and Ireland as aforesaid. And 
whereas the above-named plaintiff and Richard Rush did, on the 3d 
day of May, 1838, prefer their petition unto the right honorable the mas- 
ter of the rolls, setting forth as therein set forth, and praying that the resi- 
due of the several stocks, funds, and securities, and cash, respectively, stand- 
ing in the name of the accountant general of this court, in trust in the cause 
of Hungorford vs. Drummond, and in trust in this cause, which should 
remain after providing for and satisfying the annual and other payments 
directed by -the will of the said testator, and the costs and charges to which 
the estate of the said testator had been rendered liable by virtue of the 
several proceedings and measures aforesaid, or any of them, might be 
respectively transferred, (the amount thereof to be verified by affidavit,) 
in the books of the governor and company of the Bank of England, and 
paid to the petitioner, Richard Rush •, and that the boxes and packages 
mentioned in the said master's report might be delivered into the custo- 
dy of the petitioner, Richard Rush. Whereupon all parties concerned were 
ordered to attend his lordship on the matter of the said petition, when 
this cause should come on to be heard for further directions ; and this cause 

, coming on this present day to be heard before the right honorable the mas- 
ter of the rolls for further directions on the said master's said report, and 
as to the measure of costs reserved in the said decree, in the presence of 
counsel learned on both sides : upon opening and debate of the meas- 
ure, and hearing the said decree, the said report, the said order dated the 
27th day of March, the said petition, and the accountant general's certifi- 

[ cates read, and what was alleged by the counsel on all sides, his lordship 
doth declare that the plaintiff is entitled to the residue of the several 
stocks, and securities, and cash, respectively, standing in the name of the 
accountant general of this court, in trust in this cause, and also in trust 
in a certain otlier cause of Hungerford against Drummond, in the master's 

|i report mentioned, and the other property of James Smithson, the testator, 

I ill the pleadings in this cause named, after providing for the payment 



28 Doc. i^o. 10. 

hereinafter directed ; and it is ordered that the sixty-two thousand seven 
hundred and thirty-nine pounds nineteen shilhngs and two pence bank 
three pounds per cent, annuities, twelve thousand pounds reduced annu- 
ities, and sixteen thousand one hundred pounds bank stock, respectively, 
standing in the name of the said accountant general, in trust in the cause 
of Hungerford vs. Drummond, and the sum of one thousand seven hun- 
dred and sixty-five pounds two shillings cash in the bank, remaming on 
the credit of the said cause, be respectively carried over in trust in and to 
the credit of this cause ; and the said accountaiu general is to declare the 
trust of the said several sums of stock, accordingly, subject to the finther 
order of this court ; and out of the said sum of one thousand seven hun- 
dred and seventy-five pounds two shillings cash, when so carried over, 
and tJie sum of two hundred and four pounds six shillings and eight pence 
•cash in the bank, on the credit of this cause, it is ordered that the sum of 
fifty-three pounds seven shillings and six pence be paid to Mr. Thomas 
George Fynmore ; and thereout, also, it is ordered that the sum of five 
hundred and twenty-six pounds eleven shillings and six pence be carried 
over, with the privity of the said accountant general, and placed to the 
credit of this cause, to an account to be entitled " The account of the an- 
nuitant Mary Ann de la Batut ;" and thereout, also, it is ordered that the 
sum of twenty-five pounds be paid to Mrs. Elizabeth Fitall, (as executrix 
of John Fitall, deceased ;) and it is ordered that it be referred to the mas- 
ter to whom this cause stands referred, to tax all parties their costs of this 
suit, and relating thereto, properly incurred; the costs of the plaintifi", and 
of the defendant Charles Drummond, to be taxed as between solicitor and 
client ; and it is ordered that the amount of such costs, when taxed, be 
paid out of one thousand three hundred and siity-four pounds nine shillings 
and eight pence cash, which will thenberemainingonthecredit of thiscause, 
after the several before-mentioned payments, in manner following, that 
is to say: the costs of the said plaintitf to Mr. Thomas Clarke, his solicit- 
or ; and the costs of the defendant Charles Drummond to Mr. Thomas 
George Fynmore, his solicitor ; and the costs of lier Majesty's attorney 
general, to Mr. George Maule, her solicitor. It is ordered that five thou- 
sand and fifteen pounds bank three pounds per cent, annuities, part of 
the six thousand eight hundred and ten pounds nineteen shillings and 
seven pence, like annuities, standing in the name of the said accountant 
general, in trust in this cause, and any interest which may accrue on the 
said sum of five thousand and fifteen pounds bank three pounds per cent, 
annuities, previous to the carrying over hereby directed, be, in like maii- 
ner, carried over in trust, in this cause, to the separate account of M^iry 
Ann de la Eatut, entitled " The account of the annuitant Mary Ann de 
la Batut ;" and the said accountant general is to declare the trust thereof 
■accordingly, subject to the further order of this court. And it is ordered 
that the interest and dividends thereof, which ohall accrue during the life 
•of the said Mary Ann de la Batut, be paid to her during her life, or until 
the further order of this court, for her separate use, and on her sole receipt, 
by equal half-yearly payments, on the 22d day of September and the 22d 
day of March in every year; the first payment thereof to be made on the 
22d day of September next. And it is ordered that the said sixty-two thou- 
sand seven hundred and thirty-nine pounds nineteen shillings and two 
pence bank three pounds per cent, annuities, twelve thousand pounds re- 
•duced annuities, and sixteen thousand one hundred pounds bank stock, 



Doc. No. 10. 29 

when so respectively carried over, and one thousand seven hundred and 
ninety-five pounds nineteen shillings and seven pence three pounds per 
cent, annuities, residue of the said six thousand eight hundred and ten 
pounds nineteen sliiliings and seven pence, like annuities, after such carry- 
ing over of part thereof as aforesaid, and the residue of the said sum of one 
thousand three hundred and sixty-four pounds nine shillings and eight 
pence cash, after the payments thereout hereinbefore directed, (the amount 
of such residue to be verified by affidavit,) be transferred and paid to Mr. 
Richard Rush, in the plaintiff's bill named. And it is ordered that the 
boxes and packages in the master's report of the twenty-eighth day of 
June, one thousand eight lumdred and thirty-one, in the said cause of 
Hungerford vs. Drummond mentioned, be delivered into the custody of 
the said Richard Rush, as attorney or otherwise for the plaintitf ; and, for 
the purposes aforesaid, the sai4 accountant general is to draw on the bank 
according to tiie form prescribed by the act of Parliament, and the a-en- 
eral rules and orders of this court in that case njade and provided ; ^and 
any of the parties are to be at liberty to apply to this court as they may 
be advised. H. H. ' 

Entered: E. R. 



B. 

Craven street, July 11, I83S. 

Dear Sir: We have made the affidavit which you required to verify 
the bill of costs, and which we now return to you. 

We also send you the original order on further directions, under which 
[the several transfers of the funds have been made into your name. This 
order has the initials of the registrar, as also of the entering clerk, placed 
at the foot of it; this being the mode adopted in the court of chancery to 
show the authenticity of their orders. 

We also send you a transcript from the books of the accountant general, 
certified by Mr. Lewis to be a true copy — Mr. Lewis being the clerk 
whose duty it is to make such transcript. The sum of £70 7*. 8^., ap- 
pearing still to. remain on the general credit of the cause, is reserved for 
the costs of the attorney general, and will be paid over to his solicitor 
upon his applying for the amount ; and the cash standing to the account 
of Mrs. de la Batut is for the arrears of her annuity, and will be paid 
to her. 

; We have seen INIr. Deacon upon the subject of his charge for warehouse- 
room beyond the 24th ultimo, and have paid him for the same £2 ; and 
Iwe have also paid \s. Qd. for swearing to our bill of costs, which is the 
iwhole of our demand against you. 

Mr. Deacon informed us when we saw him that he liad in his posses- 
sion' a painting belonging to the estate, and which he promised should be 
sent over to your house, and which we presume he has done ; but should 
he not have done so, perhaps you will be good enough to apply to him 
for it. 

We will thank you to send us an acknowledgment for the different 
boxes we have handed you. 

We are, dear sir, your very faithful servants, 

CLARKE, FYNMORE & FLADGATE. 

Richard Rush, Esq. 



30 -Doc. No. 10. 

c. 

Craven street, ^uly 5, iS38. . 

Dear Sir : At the time of the decease of the late Henry James Hmi- 
gerford, Esq., which happened on the 5th June, 1835, there was stan^iing 
in the name of the accountant general of the court of chancery, to the 
'credit of the cause Hungerford vs. Drummond, tlie several suius follow- 
ing, viz : 

£62,739 195. 2r/. bank £3 per cent, annuities ; 
12,000 £3 per cent, reduced annuities ; 
16,100 bank stock. 
And if tliese several funds had then been sold, they would have realized 
the sum of £102,991, or thereabouts ;but owing to the proceedings which 
were necessary to be instituted in the court of chancery, the funds were 
not transferred into your name until the 5th June, 1838. We are happy 
to iuform you that, notwithstanding this delay, no loss iias beeu occasioned 
to the United States, as, according to the market prices of the fuiuls on the \ 
last-mentioned day, the funds were then worth JS 103,888, beinj? an excess ; 
of £897 beyond their value on the 5th June, 1835, the d ite of Mr. Huu- 
gerford's death. 

Tiie whole of the costs of the chancery sui! amoii;ited to £723 Is. 1 1:/., 
so that the increase in the value of the funds was surlicieiu to pay tiie 
whole of these costs, and leave a surplus of £173 12.s. \d. 

In making out the above statement, the dividends u])on the fnnds iiave 
not been taken into account, but the United States receive iheui in a idi-. 
tion to the original fund. 

Tiie United States do not, however, receive the whole amount, of s icli 
dividends now, as a portion of them was invested in stock, of which £5,0 1 5 
has been appropriated to answer an annuity of £150 \'.s to Madame de 
la Batut, upon whose decease the same v/ill become the prop.rry of tae 
United States. 

The sums in court, at the last hearing of the cause, wei c as ioliows, riz : 
£62,739 195. 2d. bank 3 per cent, annuities; . 
6,810 19 7 like annuities ; 
12,000 reduced annuities ; 
16,100 bank stock; 
1,765 2 cash; 
204 6 8 cash. 
These sums have been appropriated as follows, viz : 
£62,739 195. 2f/. bank £3 per cent, annuities ; 

1,795 19 7 partof £6,810 195. 7^/. like annuities; Trans'd into 

the name of 
bank 3 per cent, annuities ; | WW Rush, I 

reduced annuities ; . . I Escj. 

bank stock ; j 

reduced bank annuities, residn • ■\{ £!),si0 19.s. Id.^ 
retained in court to answer mighty to Madame de 
la Batut ; 
paid to plaintift''s solicitors for heir o-ts ; 
paid to defendants' solicitors f > cost ; 
paid to plaintiff's solicitors foi ,varehous(!-room, p nd 
by them to Messrs. Deacon ; 



£64,535 


18 


9 


12,000 








16,100 








5,015 








406 


3 





162 


15 


5 


. 53 


7 


6 



Doc. No. 10. 31 

£526 Us. Gfl?. paid to Madame de la Batutforarrearsof her amiuitv 
25 paid to Mrs. Fitall for arrears of annuity ; ' 

70 7 8 paid to solicitor for defendant the attorney General 
lOr costs ; ^ » » 

725 3 7 balance of cash paid to R. Rush, Esq. 
Herewith we send you a complete copy of our bill of costs, amounting 
altogether to :fi490 4.. 10^. ; and we have received the following sum on 
account of costs, viz : = ^ "" 

April 10, 1S37, of Richard Rush, Esq. - . . 200 4 li 

June 11, 1838, of accountant general, for plaintiff's taxed 
costs - . _ 

406 3 



dP^^tn \T% Ta t^f f^di"g our bill of costs by £116 2.. 2d., le"I^^^7i^ 
our dieci '" ""^ ''"'^'''''' ^^' '^^'''^ ""' b^g ^^^^^^ to enclose 



_606 7 

er sum exceeding our bill of costs by £116 2*. 2d lea 
United States to that amount, for which we beg leave t 
our check. ^ 

wl^rh Z7t?rf''^ •^''" ^^ '^^ information on the subject of costs, 

rJa^ tX Wl.f7' ^'T ^''' ^''^^^'>^' ""'''• t^^^t *^ ^°"^-t allows 
hi ,?f frn^ fU ^^^^^^^ ordinary costs ; and such costs have been received 

howeverTfth .^''"'f'^"; general, as before stated. In consequence, 
ho wevei, of the line of conduct adopted by us, under your own directions 
to ensure a speedy and successful termination of the suit, some s^all ex ra 
cos^have been incurred beyond what are considered ordinal yTosts 

We have as you requested, had a lock placed upon the trunk* in our 

possession, having previously deposited therein the several articles of Dla^e 

and otlier matters, which we mentioned to you as being in 01 TossLs^^^^ 

and oi which articles we enclose you a list! possession, 

We are, dear sir, your faithful and obedient servants 

CLARKE, FYNMORE, & FLADGATE. 

torhe^;toTk. ""^'^ ''^''''' '"^ ^°" ^''' memoranda which you left with us as 

* One of the 14 mentioned in my despatch No. .32. 



32 



Doc. No. 10. 



so 



o 

s. 









50 






<u 



14) 



(•5 



■J «j 



.tS 



w 



^ 



o 



o 

pa 






Co 












o 



^ 






••Si 

Co 

As 



"M 



o 



N o o 



C-. o o 



Ol © o 

« o o 

!> O r- 

l?J w o 



w 



o 



":;< 



o 



lilt* 







Doc. No. 10. 3S 

The President of the United States of Jlnierica vs. Drummond. Tbz 
account of the annuitant Mary Ann de la Batut, 



1838. 

June 2. By the President of the United 
States of America vs. Drum- 
niond, for the bank £3 per cent, 
annuities brought over - - 

June 7. Bv the said cash for cause, brought 

"over - - - - £526 11 6 

July 11. By cash received, six months in- 
terest on £5,015, bank £3 per 
cent, annuities - - 75 4 6 



£a,0S!5 



I do hereby certify this to be a true copy of the books of the accoimt- 
ant general of the high court of chancery. 

BENJ. LEWIS, 
Clerk of the above accountant generaL 
Chancery Lane, July, 1S3S. 






E. 

IN CHANCERY. 

Between the President of the United States of Amev'ica, plaintiff, ■ 

a fid 
Charles Drummond and her Majesty's Attorney General, defendants. 

'The bill of costs of the above-named plaintiff in this suit and inci- 
dental thereto. 

£ s, d. 
■'Sept. 16, 1836. — Mr. Fladgate's attendance on Mr, Rush, on 
the part of the United States, at the Portland hotel, by ap- 
pointment, when Mr. Rush requested that two of the firm 
should at least attend - - - - - 6 S 

Writing to Mr. Rush, fixing appohitment for conference with 

him on Tuesday, at 11 o'clock - - - - SO 

Sept. 20. — Mr. Clarke and Mr. Fladgate's attendance on Mr. 
Rush, fully explaining to him the course which it appeared 
to us should be taken on the part of the executors to bring 
the claim of the United States under consideration, and also 
the necessity of making Madame de la Batut and the at- 
torney general parties ; and reading to him the case laid 
before Mr. Stuart, and his opinion, of which he wished to 
have a copy ...--. 

Copy case and opinion for him 
Attending him therewith - - . - 

Oct. 3. — Writing to Mr. Rush, in reply to letter from him 
3 



I 


6 


8 


1 










6 


s 




5 






M 



Doc. No. 10. 



;Oct. 7. — Writing to Mr. Rusli, to fix appointment for confer- 
ence on Thursday next . . . . - 

Oct. 10. — Mr. Clarlie and Mr. Fladgate's attendance on Mr. 
Rush, hy appointment, to peruse case drawn out by him for 
counsel to advise the American Government as to course 
to be pursued to obtain payment of the fund in court, and 
advising as to the counsel to be retained, and received di- 
rections to submit case to Mr. Pemberton and Mr. Jacob - 
Paid coach-hire ------ 

Oct. 11. — Looking through the papers in our possession, to 
compare them with statement in Mr. Rush's case, and alter- 
ing the latter in one or two particulars, engaged two hours 
Two cojues of case lor counsel, tour sheets each 
Two copies of act of American Congress, to accompany same, 
three sheets each ------ 

One copy of order on further directions in the cause of Hun- 

gerford vs. Drumnion(l,also to accompany ease, to show the 

precise position of the funds in court - - _ 

-Attending at Doctor's Commons to bespeak an oiffice-copy will 

of Mr. Smithson for Mr. Rush, at his request 
Attending afterwards to examine and procure same - 
Paid for same ---_.. 

Oct. 13. — Writing to Madame de la I5atut, as to her demands, 
and requesthig her to appoint a solicitor here to act in the 
suit about to be instituted by the United States 
Attending Mr. Rusli with the fair copies of cases for his perusal 
and signatures, and we also returned him his authority, and 
. handed him office-copy will . - . - 

Attending Mr. Pemberton with case - - - 

Fee to him therewith, and clerk - - 

Fee to him for conference with Mr. Jacob, and clerk - 
Attending to get same appointed - - - - 

Fee to Mr. Jacob with case, arid clerk - _ - 

Attending him therewith and thereon - _ . 

Fee to him for conference, and clerk - - - - 

Attending to inform him of lime appointed - - ., 

Nov. 2. — Attending consultation, Mr. Rush being present, 
when the course to be ])ursued on behalf of the United 
States was very fully considered, and it was determined 
that a supplemental bill should be filed in the name of the 
President of the United States of America, and the attor- 
ney general made a defendant, and counsel promised to 
write their opinion - - . . _ 

"Nov. 5. — Copy of opinion for Mr. Rusii 
Writing to him, with same - . - . . 

Nov. M. — Mr. Clarke and Mr. Fladgate's attendance upon 
Mr. Rush, as to the bill proposed to be tiled, and his sug- 
gestions as to the possibility of an abatement from the want 
of a plaintiff, and explaining the course of practice to him 



£ s. d. 
5 



1 


G 


8 




1 


6 


1 


1 





1 


8 


8 



I 



1 1 

6 8 

6 S 

6 4 



5 





13 


4 




6 


8 


11 





6 


2 


9 


6 




6 


8 


8 


15 







6 


8 




4 


6 




G 


8 



2 2 
5 
5 



6 8 



1)()C. No. 10. AgS 

MICHAELMAS TERM, 1836. 

£ s. d. 

• 'Instructions for bill - - - - - -134 

Drawing same, folios 30 - - - - -llO-O 

Paid fee to Mr. Shadwell to settle and sign, and clerk - 2 4 6 

; Attending him - - - - - - 68 

Attending Mr. Shadwell, advising hereon and as to Madame 
de la Batut's claim, and explaining the same fully to him, 
and conferring on several points arising, and particularly on 
the nature of the property left by Mr. Smithson - - 6 8 

Pair copy bill for Mr. Pemberton to peruse and finally settle, 
folios 30 - 
; Fee to him and clerk - . - 

i Attending him --.___ 

P. Attending Mr. Pemberton, appointing a conference hereon 
IS at Westminster - - - - - 

Paid fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk thereon 
The like to Mr. Shadwell and clerk - - - . 

Attending him --..__ 

< Writing to Mr. Rush informing him thereon - - . 

-Attending consultation, Mr. Rush being present, at Westmin- 
ster, when it was determined not to make Madame de la 
;- Batut a party to suit - - . - 

Paid for room - - . - 

Attending Mr, Shadwell afterwards to procure draught bill as 
settled - - - 

!) Engrossing bill - - - - - 

': Paid for parchment -----. 

Paid fihng bill - - - - - - 

..Attending, bespeaking, and afterwards for office-copy bill to 

serve on the attorney general - - 

'Paid for same ------ 

Attending tlie attorney general therewith - - 

■.Drawing praecipe for subpoena against defendant, Charles 

Drummond, and attending to bespeak, and for same 
.Paid fpr subp(i;na,and making copy to serve - - . 

Fee on obtaining, and undertaking to appear for defendant, 

Drummond - - - - - . 68 

Nov. 20. — Attending Mr. Wray to press for answer of attor- 
ney general, and explaining to him the reason of our 
\ urging the same, when he promised to prepare answer im- 
mediately; Mr. Rush's invariable direction to us being to 

• use all practicable speed touching every point of the pro- 
ceedings - - - - - -- 68 

The defendant, Charles Drummond, wishing his answer to be 

taken without oath or signature, the solicitor's fee thereon - 

Drawing and engrossing petition for same - _ - 

Attending the defendant's clerk in court, and obtaining his 

consent thereto - - - . 

Attending to present the same - _ . _ 

-Paid answering, and for order, and entering - - -- 





10 





2 


4 


6 




6 


8 




6 


8 


2 


9 


6 


1 


3 


6 




6 


8 




5 





1 


6 


8 




5 







6 


s 




15 







10 







7 


4 




6 


8 


1 


5 


,0 




6 


8 




6 


8 




5 


10 



6 


S 


4 





6 


s 


6 


8 


7 


0- 



36 



Doc. No. 10. 



Copy and service of order . . . _ . 

Writing to Mr. Rush to inform him when it was Hkely the 
cause would be lieard - - - - - 

Paid for olhce-copy answer of defendant, Charles Drum- 
mond,foUosl6 --.._. 

Close copy - - - s. . . . 

Attending Messrs. Derby and Raven to inform them answer of 
defendant, Drummond, was filed, and to request them to 
lose no time in putting in answer of attorney general 

January, 1837. — Several attendances upon Messrs. Derby and 
Raven and Mr. Wray to urge the filing of the attorney gen- 
eral's answer, Avhich was at length done - 

Paid for office-copy answer of attorney general, folios 4 

Close copy --.-._- 

Term fee, clerk in court and solicitor - - - - 

Letter^ and messengers - _ . . . 



£ s. d. 

2 

.3 

13 4 

5 4 



6 S 



13 


4 


3 
t 


4 
4 


16 


8 


5 






HILARY TEEM, 1837. 

Abbreviating bill and answer, folios 50 hi all - - 16 

Making two briefs of pleadings, 5 sheets each - - 1 13 

Paid for certificate of pleadings . _ . _ 3 

Attending for same ------ 6 

Paid for setting down cause and attending - - 15 

Drawing precipe for subpana to hear judgment, and attending 
for same ------- 

Paid for same and copy - - - - . - 

Service on the clerks in court _ - _ - 

Alfidavit of service, &c. - _ - - 1 

Oath - - - - - - 

Paid filing affidavit ------ 

Copy title and prayer of bill for judge ... 

Attending to bespeak, and afterwards for certificate of funds 

in court in original suit - 
Drawing observations to annex to plaintifi^'s briefs,4 brief sheets 1 
Two briefs copies thereof - - - - - 1 

Two copies order on further directions in original suit, to ac- 
company briefs, 7 sheets each - - - - 2 6 

Attending Mr. Rush on his handing us the act of Congress 
authorizing him to act, and on his instructing us to let a 
copy of the same accompany the briefs - . - 

Two brief copies same, 3 sheets each . . - 

Drawing proposed minutes of orders - - - 5 

Fee to Mr. Shadwell, to settle same - - - 1 3 

Attending him ...... 6 

Two fair copies minutes to annex to briefs - - - 5 

Two do for defendants - . - - - 5 

Attending them tlierewith and thereon - - - 6 

Attending the defendants' solicitors ; obtaining their consent 

to have cause heard short - - - - 13 4| 



3 
1 

6 
2 

6 
6 
6 



Doc. jSTo. 10. 



37 



Attending Mr. Shadwell, and obtaining his certificate thereof 

Attending registrar therewith, and getting cause marked 
short, and put in the next short-cause paper 

Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk, with brief 

Attending him -...._ 

The like to Mr. Shadwell and clerk 

Fee to Ml". Penibertoii and clerk, on conference as to the 
practicability of having cause short . . . 

Attending him - - - - - - 

Attending appointing consultation - . - . 

Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk . - . . 

Attending him ._-_-_ 

Like to Mr. Shadwell and clerk . - - . 

Attending him .__.._ 

Wrhing Mr. Rush, informing him thereof ... 

Attending consultation at Westminster, Mr. Clarke and Mr. 
Fladgate ------- 

Paid for room and cab-hire - - - - - 

-4ttending, ascertaining if the several articles mentioned in 
the master's report in the original cause were safe, and 
comparing same with the schedule 

Two brief copies schedules to annex to brief, at Mr. Rush's 
request - - - 

Attending bespeaking transcript of the account in original suit 

Paid for same - - - - 

Writhig Mr. Rush, informing him when cause would be in 
the paper - - _ - - 

Mr. Clarke and Mr. Fladgate attending court-cause, heard 
and decreed according to minutes agreed on, with lib- 
erty for plaintilf to amend his bill by adding the act of 
Congress ..---- 

Paid court fees ..---_ 

Attending Mr, Rush a,fterwards, and explaining proceedings 
to him ------- 

Drawing petition to amend bill 

Attending to present same - " . " • " 

Paid answering, and for order and entering 

Two copies, and services of order - - - - 

Instructions to amend . . - - . 

Drawing amendments, folios 6 - - - - 

' Fee to Mr. Shadwell and clerk, to settle and sign 
Attending him 

Engrossing amended bill, folios 36 - 

Paid for parchment . - _ - . 

Paid filing ------ 

Abbreviating amended bill, folios 36 - - . 

Two brief copies of amendments tor counsel 

Paid for office-copy amended bill, to serve on the attorney 

general, folios 36 - - - 

Attei ding Messrs. Derby &: Co. therewith and thereon 
Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk, with amended bill 



£ 


s. 


d. 




6 


8 




6 


8 


5 


10 







6 


8 


3 


5 


6 


1 


6 







13 


4 




6 


8 


2 


9 


6 




6 


8 


1 


3 


6 




6 


S 




5 





1 


6 


8 




7 


6 



13 4 

10 

6 8 

14 

5 



2 










13 







13 


4 




4 







6 


8 




7 







5 







13 


4 




6 


8 


1 


3 


6 




6 


8 




IS 







10 







7 


4 




12 







10 





1 


10 







6 


8 


2 


4 


6 



38 



Doc. No. 10. 



Attending him 

The like to Mr. Shadwell and clerk 

Attending him ._._-- 

Drawing praecipe for subpoena, and attending to bespeak same 

Paid for same, and making copy to serve 

Service on clerk in court - . . - . 

Attending registrar, and getting cause put in the paper 

Writin:^ to solicitors for tlie defendants, informing them thereof 

Attending court order made ----- 

Paid court fees __-.-_ 

Instructions for petition to lay out £6,172 9s., cash accumu- 
lated in Hungerford vs. Drammond _ - _ 
Drawing same, folios 40 - - - - 

Fee to Mr. Shadwell and clerk, to peruse and settle same 
Attending him - - - - 

Engrossing pethion to present, as settled, folios 30 - 
Copy for the master of the rolls - - - . 

Attending to present same - - _ - . 

Paid answering - - - - 

Two copies petition to serve -..--- 
Attending serving same - - - - - 

Two brief copies for counsel, 3 brief-sheets each 
Drawing observations to annex to brief petition, 2 sheets 
Two fair copies ----._ 

Drawing and engrossing affidavit of service of petition 
Paid oath __--.-.. 
Paid filing and for office copy - - _ - 

Fee to Mr. Shadwell and clerk therewith - - 

Attending him - - - - 

Attending accountant general for, and obtaining certificate - 
Attending court petition heard, and ordered as prayed 
Paid court fees .--... 

Writing Mr. Rush, at his request, a report of the proceedings 
in court ---_.-. 
Paid for minutes of order - _ - - - 

Close copy .-----. 

Attending settling ------ 

Paid for order .--.... 

Attending passing -_.-_- 
Paid entering .___-- 

Drawing request to accountant general - . - 

Attending bespeaking investment - - . . 

Paid - . . 

Paid for copy of minutes of decree - - - . - 

Close copy ------- 

Attending settling - - - - - , _ 

Copy of minutes for Mr. Rush, and writing him therewith and 

thereon ---_-._ 

Paid for decree _-__._ 

Attending passing ------ 

Paid entering - - -,^,,,. - 



£ 


s. 


d. 




6 


8- 


1 


n 


6 




6 


8 




6 


8- 




5 


10 




5 







6 


8 




10 





1 


G 


8 




13 







G 


s 


2 








2 


4 


6 




G 


8 




10 







10 







6 


8 




11 





1 










4 





1 










13 


4 




13 


4 




4 


10 




1 


6 




6 


2 


2 


4 


6 




G 


S 




G 


S 




13 


4 




13 







5 







2 







1 







6 





2 










G 


S 




4 







2 


6 




G 


s 




4 







3 







1 


6 




13 


4 




6 


6 


4 


10 







13 


4 




4* 






Doc. No. 10. S^^ 

£ s. d. 

Attending ------- g S 

Attending at the public office, to obtain the name of the mas- 
ter in the original cause - - - - - (> S 

Paid master's clerk - - - - - - 10 

Making copy title, and ordering part of decree for the master 5 0- 

Warrant to consider decree, two copies, and services - - 6 

Writing Mr. Rush, informing him thereof, in order to ensure 

his attendance - - - - - - 50 

Attending warrant when master ordered the usual advertise- 
ment to be issued, and a state of facts, &c. to be brought in 
as to Madame Batut's claim, and stated that he could not 
direct inquiries to be made at Pisa, as to the death of Mr. 
Hungerford, but would allow the costs thereon if institnted 13 4 

Atteading at Stepney church, to search for burial of John Fi- 

tall, but found he was not buried there - - - 1 1 

Paid search and coach-hire - - - - - 2 &i- 

Attending Mrs. Fitall, but she declined giving any information, 

as the last quarterly payment had not been made - - 6 8 

Attending at various places in the neighborhood, to inquire 
where he was buried, v.'hen some persons said in the coun- 
try, others at Fletcher's chapel, and others at Saint George's 
in the East, and ultimately discovered a relative, who in- 
fi)rmed us that he was buried at Shadwell - - - 13 4 

Attending at Shadwell church, clergyman and clerk both out, 

and could not search - - - - - 13 4- 

Paid coach-hire - -- - - - 50 

Attending bespeaking advertisement as to Mr. Hungerford's 

death - - - - - - - 6 8 

Paid master's clerk - - - - 1 1 G 

Attending bespeaking advertisement as to Madame de la Ba- 

tiit's claim - - - -- - - 6.^ 

Paid master's clerk - - - - - -110 

Attending at Shadwell, searching for and obtaining certificate 

of Mr. Fitall's death - - - - - 1 1 

Paid for certificate and omnibus-hire - - - - 5 

Instructions for affidavit verifying extract - , - - G S' 

Drawing same, folios 8 - - - - - 8 

Engrossing same - - - - - - 2 8^ 

Attending swearing - - - - - - 6.8; 

Paid oath and exhibit - - - - - 4 Q> 

Drawingand fair copy state of facts as to Fit^l's death, folios 12 8 G 

Warrant on leaving same, copy, and service - - - 6 O'v 

Attending Mr. Cullington, Mrs. Fitall's solicitor, as to identity 
of John Fitall, when he promised to see his client thereon, 
and let us know the result - - - - - 6 8 

Attending at the Gazette office, to get advertisement as to Mr. 

Hungerford's death inserted - - 

Paid, and for Gazette - - - - - 

Attending at the Gazette office, to get advertisement as to Mrs. 
Batut's claim inserted ----- 

Paid for insertion ------ 



f> 



6 


8' 


8 




6 


8- 


1 


as 



2 


6 


f) 


8 


16 


5 


9 


2 


16 


5 


9 


2 


16 


5 


2 


6 


6 


8 


16 





9 


2 


16 


q 


9 


2 


16 






Doc. No. 10. 



Copy of advertisement as to Hungerford's death, for Times 
aewspaper ------- 

Ailending inserting same - - - - - 

Faid insertion ---.._ 

'Tho like for Morning Herald - - 

Ftdd insertion, &c. - 

The like for Standard -.._.. 

Faid insertion, &c. - 

Copy of advertisement as to Mrs. BatiU's claim, for the Times 
newspaper ------- 

Attending inserting same - - - - . 

Faid insertion - - - 

Use like for Mornhig Herald 

f^id insertion, &c. ------ 

Hie like for Standard - - . _ . 

Faid for insertion, &c. - - . . - 

Several attendances in the city, as to the best mode of insert- 
ing the advertisement in foreign papers, and as to getting 
same translated, &c. - - - - -110 

Making copies of advertisements, to get translated into French 
and Italian ------- 

Attending translation therewith, and afterwards for same 
Faid them ------- 

Making twelve copies for insertion in foreign papers 
Attending Mr. Deacon, the newspaper agent, therewith, and 
instructing him thereon - - - - - 

Faid for foreign advertisements - - . _ 

Attending paying same, and for receipt - - - 

The proprietors of the Times newspaper having made an error 

in the name of Mr. Hungerford : attending at their office and 

rectifying same, and giving instruction for another insertion 6 S 

Attending Mr. Deacon to ascertain if he had correspondent at 

Leghorn to whom we could forward instructions to obtain 

the information of Mr, Hungerford's death, and obtaining 

the direction of same - - - - - 6 8 

Writing very long and special letter to Madame Batut as to 
her claim on the estate, and requiring the necessary proof, 
and requesting information as to her son's death, &c. - 7 6 

€&pj same, to keep as evidence - - - - 5 

Writing Mr. Rush, with Mrs. Batut's answer - - 5 

Attending at Gazette office to ^et advertisements as to Mr. 

Hungerford's death inserted second time - - - 6 8 

f^id for Gazette and insertion - - - - 1 8 2 

Copy advertisement for Times newspaper - - - 2 6 

Attending inserting same - - - - - 6 8 

Paid insertion, &c. - - - - - - 165 

The like for Morning Herald - - •• - 9 2 

Faid insertion, &c. - - - - - - 165 

The like for Standard - - - - - 90 

Fiiid insertion, &c. - - - - - - 165 



5 





13 


4 


2 6 


6 


1 10 





13 


4 


2 2 


11 


6 


8 



s. 


a. 


6 


8 


1 





2 


6 


6 


8 


16 


0^ 


9 


2 


16 





9 


2 


16 





1 


8 





6 


8 


1 


1 





1 


7 


8 



Doc. No. 10. 41 



Attending at Gazette office to get advertisement as to claim of 

Madame de la Batut inserted a second time 
Paid for msertion ------ 

Copy advertisement for Times newspaper - - - 

Attending inserting same ----- 

Paid insertion -_,--. 

The like for Morning Herald - - * - 

Paid for insertion, &c. - - . - _ 

The like for Standard ----- 

Paid for insertion, &c. - - . - - 

Term fee - - - - - 

EASTER TERM, 1837. 

Attending Mr. Cnllington to know if he could identify Mr. 
Fitall, which he declined doing miless the arrears of the an- 
nuity were paid - - - - - - 6 8 

Attending bespeaking peremptory advertisement as to Hmi- 

gerford's death .-._-- 

Paid master's clerk ------ 

The like charges as to Madame Batut's claim 
Attending Mr. Rush with Madame de la Batut's letter, and 
conferring thereon, when he agreed with us in thinking that 
she had abandoned all claim under the estate - - 6 8, 

Attending at Gazette otfice to get peremptory advertisement 

inserted as to Mr. Hungerford's death 
Paid for Gazette and insertion - - 

Copy advertisement for Times newspaper - - - 

Attending inserting the same - . . - 

Paid insertion, &c. ------ 

The like for Morning Herald ----- 

Paid insertion, &c. - - - . - - - 

The like for Standard - . - - _ 

Paid insertion, &:c. ------ 

Attending at Gazette office to get peremptory advertisement 

as to claim of Madame de la Batut inserted 
Paid insertion _-.--. 

Copy of advertisement for Times ncAvspaper 
Attending inserting same ----- 

Paid insertion -_---. 

The like for Morning Herald . - - - 

Paid insertion - - - ' - 

The like for Standard ----- 

Paid insertion .----_ 

Attending at Gazette office to get peremptory advertisement 

inserted a second time as to death of Mr. Hungerford 
Paid for Gazette and insertion . - - - 

Copy advertisement for Times - . - - 

Attending inserthig same - - - . . 

Paid insertion, &c. - - - - - _ 

The like for Morning Herald - 

Paid insertion, &c. - 



6 


8 


S 


2 


2 


6 


6 


8 


16 


5 


9 


2 


16 


5 


9 


2 


16 


5 


6 


8 


1 





o 


6 


6 


8 


16 





9 


2 


16 





9 


2 


16 





6 


8 


8 


2 


2 


6 


6 


8 


16 


5 


9 


2 


16 


5 



s. 


d 


9 


2 


16 


5 


G 


8 


1 





2 


6 


16 





9 


2 


16 





9 


2 


16 






42 Doc. No. 10. 



The like for Standard - - - .. _ 

Paid insertion, &:c. ---.-_ 
Attending at the Gazette office to insert the peremptory adver- 
tisement a second time as to claim of Madame de la Batut 
Paid for insertion and Gazette - _ _ . 

Copy advertisement for Times - . _ _ 

Paid insertion - - - - . _ 

The like for Morning Herald - - _ . 

Paid insertion - - - - - - 

The like for Standard 

Paid insertion -...._ 

Attending at Mr. Deacon's to ascertain if any of the foreign 
papers had arrived, when he handed us three of the French 
papers which he had only received that morning - - 6 8 

Perusing and examining same, and ascertaining they were full 
of errors : attending Mr. Deacon again, and correcting same, 
and requesting him to get same correctly inserted - - 13 4 

Writing Madame de la Batnt, in answer to her last letter, and 
requesting any information she could give as to the death of 
Mr. Hungerford - - - - - - 50 

Making two copies of peremptory advertisement to get trans- 
lated into French and Italian . _ - _ 
Attending translators therewith, and afterwards for same 
Paid them - - - - - - -2 

Making 12 copies for insertion in the foreign papers - - 1 

Attending Mr. Deacon therewith, and instructing him thereon 
Paid for foreign advertisements - - - - 12 

Writing long letter to Mrs. Batut, in answer - - - 

Attending paying for foreign advertisements and for receipts 
Attending Mr. Batut in very long conference, when he urged 
the claim of Madame de la Batut ; but we informed him 
we had no discretion to apply the funds, except under the 
direction of the court, and told him to carry in a claim be- 
fore the master ; when he stated " he would submit certain 
documents of evidence material to the plaintifPs case, for 
an inspection at half-past 10 o'clock next day" - - 1.3 4 

Paid for oaths of Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore, and Fladgate to 

three copies of bill delivered to Mr. Rush - - - 13 6 

April 29. — Attending Mr. Batut for upwards of two hottrs, 
when he appeared desirous of making terms as to the in- 
formation he could give relative to the death of Mr. Hun- 
gerford without children, which he assured us we could not 
obtain elsewhere ; and informing him we could communi- 
cate with plaintitr thereon, and requesting him to p\it any 
legal claims he might have into the hands of his solicitors, and 
we promised to represent to Mr. Rush his statement - 1 1 

Writing to Mr. Rush on the above subject, and requesting ap- 

pointinoil to meet him - - - - - 5 

May 1. — Attending Mr. Gardner in long conference as to the 
claims of Madame Batut, which we thought were much 
larger than would be allowed her on proof before the mas- 



5 





13 


4 


6 


6 


10 





13 


4 


3 





5 





6 


s 



Doc. No. 10. 43 

£ s. d. 

ter ; and we postponed a final determination until we had 

again looked through the papers - - - - 13 4 

May 2. — Attending at Mr. Rush's in long conference as to the 
application of Mr. Batut, when it was decided that we could 
not offer any pledge that attention would be paid to his ap- 
plication, but that we must procure from him such informa- 
tion as he could give, and, if it appeared he had any just 
claim, we would ofler no technical or unnecessary delay 
to it - 13 4 

May 4. — Attending Mr. Gardner, conferring very fully again 
hereon ; Avhen he stated that Mr. Smithson possessed himself 
of the property of the late Mr. Dickinson, and never render- 
ed an account; and that he (Mr. Gardner) considered that 
a bill should now be filed against the defendant, (Drum- 
mond,) as executor of the testator in this cause, for such 
account ; and that it was expected a larger sum would be 
found to have been received ; but that at all events a claim 
would be established to a life interest in a sum equal to 
that stated in the will to be the nephew's property, viz : 
£260 per annum, which, in point of fact, had been the 
amount of allowances made to Mrs. Batut by the testator, 
as she could prove ; and we urged that filing a bill would 
be useless, as it was impossible to furnish an account, but 
Avould search through all the documents in the plaintiff's 
custody or power, and give them every facility to settle the 
matter in the master's office - - - - 13 4 

May 5. — Attending Mons. Batut for upwards of two hours, 
when we told him the only chance for his obtaining any 
remuneration from the plaintiff was to furnish him with 
every information in his power relatii^e to the death of Mr. 
Hungerford, which he seemed very unwilling to do, without 
a pledge that something should be done ; and we assured him 
that no party here could give such pledge ; and that if he 

[ was really disposed to sell his information, he must put his 
terms into writing ; when he stated that he Avould consider the 
course to adopt ; and advising him to give us the informa- 
tion, and informing him, if he did not, we should resist Mad- 
ame Batut's claim in every possible way - - - 1 1 

May 6. — Attending at Mr. Deacon's ; going through and pe- 
rusing the documents deposited in the boxes, &c., to answer 
Mr. Gardner's inquiry, but could find nothing ; engaged 
several hours - - - - - -110 

May 11. — Attending Mr. Gardner as to Mr. Batut's claim, 
when he required to be furnished with an account of the 
payments made by Mr. Smithson in his lifetime to Madame 
de la Batut, which we promised to procure, as evidence of 
the fund she might claim under the will of Dickinson - 13 4 

Attending Mr. Deacon, making inquiry as to the foreign pa- 
pers, when he handed us several French ones, and promised 
to write for the Italian - - - - - 6 8 

May 18. — Attending Mr. Batut on his furnishing us with the 



44 Boc. No. 10. 



required information, when it appeared that Mr. Hunger- 
ford was buried at a Dominican convent, at Pisa, under the 
name of Baron de la Batut, on the 5th June, 1S35, and that 
a stone was raised to his memory ; but that his servant, Leo 
Ferna, could not be found, and he urged his claim upon 
the consideration of the plaintiif ; when we informed him 
that we could not entertain such claim, but referred him at 
once to Mr. Rush, or to the American Government - 13 4 

Attending Mr. Rush afterwards, conferring on Mr. Batut's in- 
formation and application, when it was determined that a 
meeting should take place in our presence between Mr. 
Rush and Mr. Batut - - - - - 13 4 

Attending Mr. Gardner to confer as to appointment with 
Monsieur Batut, but he was out of town ; writing Mr. Rush 
thereon - - - - - - . 50 

Term fee, &c. - - - - - -118 

TRINITY TERM, 1837. 

Attending at Messrs. Drummond, going through their books 
to ascertain whether any drafts had been drawn upon them 
by the testator, which would tally with the claim brought 
forward by Mrs. Batut, but found it was the testator's habit 
to draw only for large sums, and his account proved no-^ 
thing - - - - - - - 13 4 

May 30. — Paid for copy charge of Mrs. Batut's, folios 36 - 4 6 

Attending warrant to proceed thereon, when the master di- 
rected interrogatories to be exhibited for the examination 
of Mr. Drummond - - - - - fi 

June 1. — Paid for copy charge of Mrs. Fitall, folios 12 - 16 

June 2. — Attending Mr. Batut further as to his alleged claim, 
and the information he still withheld and promised to af- 
ford us - - - - - - -• 6 S 

June 5. — Attending him again on the above subject, and ask- 
ing him what he required ; when he promised to consider 
our request, and see us thereon next day - - - 6 8 

Attending Messrs. Pemberton, advising them what had taken 
place, and requesting them to attend the next day with Mr. 
Batut - - - - - - - 6 8 

June 6. — Attending warrant on Mrs. Fitall's charge when the 

master directed an affidavit in support verifying when he died 6 8 

June 6. — Attending Mr. Batut, and afterwards Mr. Rush, when 
Mr. Batut stated that he would make the requisite affidavit, 
and taking full instructions for same ; but on our application 
for an appointment to swear same, he changed his mind, and 
stated that he would not make the affidavit unless lie had a 
pledge from Mr. Rush that he would support his claim in 
America, which he did not feel justified in giving, and there- ^ 

forethetreatywas broken off ; engaged upwards of two hours 1 I'Vl 
Instructions for affidavit - - - - - 6 8 

Drawing same, folios 14 - - - - - ^ 14 



Doc. No. 10. 45 

£ 5. d. 
Attending Messrs. Peraberton thereon, and urging them to 
gel aflidavit made, and to bring in same evidence in sup- 
port of their state of facts - - - - - 6 S 

June 1>. — Writing Mr. Rush very fully thereon - - 5 

June 10. — Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference on 
Mr. Batnl's conduct, and informing him of the nature of the 
evidence sent us from Italy, which we thonght was quite 
suHicient -- - - - - -134 

Attending Mr. CuUington, pressing him to leave in the mas- 
ter's office his affidavit, required in support of charge as to 
Fitall's annuity, when lie promised to see his client thereon 
and to proceed with the charge forthwith - - - 6 8 

Paid postage of foreign letter from Mr. Berri - - 4 1 

June 16. — Attending Mr. Gardner to press him to bring in the 
particulars of proof of Mrs. Batut's claim, and conferring on 
claim - - - - - - . 6 8 

June 19. — Paid for copy affidavit in support of charge of Mrs. 

Fitall, folios 8 - - - - - . i o 

June 20. — Attending warrant to proceed on charge of Mrs. 

Fitall's, same allowed - - - - . 6 8 

Paid for warrant for Mrs. Batut to bring in evidence in support 
of charge, otherwise it Avould be disallowed, copy and ser- 
vice, (no clerk in court) - - - „ _ _ 5 6 
Writing Mr. Rush as to Fitall's annuity - - - 5 
June 23. — Writing Mr. Rush, at defendant Drummond's re- 
quest, touching an application made to him by Mr. Batut, 
and requiring his instructions thereon - - . 5 
Having received from Legiiorn an official certificate of the 
death of Mr. Hungerford, authenticated by Mr. Falconer, 
{the consul ;) attending at the Foreign Ofiice, to ascertain 
what gentleman connected with the office could verify the 
signature, and found Mr, Hertslet ; was known to him, 
but he was from town - - - - . 6 8 

June 23. — Attending Messrs. Pemberton & Co., on their sta- 
ting they were preparing instructions for the interrogatories, 
but, ])revious to. completing them, they were anxious to 
examine some papers belonging to the testator, in a black 
trunk in our possession — going through same with him — 
but they attbrded him no information ; engaged two honrs 13 4 

June 26. — Attendhig Mr. Gardner this morning, upwards of 
two hours, on the subject of Mrs. Batut's claim, endeavor- 
ing to come to some arrangement, and to ascertain if her 
claim was really founded in justice - - - 13 4 

June 29. — The master having required evidence of the in- 
sertion of the foreign advertisements, and as to their cor- 
rectness ; instructions for affidavits - - _ 
Drawing same, and fair copies ; folios 14 - 
, Fair copy for perusal - - ,. - 
Attending Mr. Deacon and Mr. Whittaker, severally, there- 
with ; and finally settling same - - - _ 
Engrossing same ----.. 



6 


8- 


14 





4 


8 


13 


4 


4 


8 



46 Doc. No. 10. 



s. d. 



6 


S 


.3 





6 


8 


1 


6 


2 





6 


S 


(i 






6 


8 


1 


6 


4 





7 


8 


6 


8 


2 14 






Attending Mr. Deacon to the public office, to get sworn to 

same ; Mr. Wtiittaker conld not attend 
Paid two oaths ----.. 

July 1. — Attending Mr. Whittaker to get sworn 

Paid oath ----_._ 

Paid Mr. Whittaker and Mr. Deacon for loss of time and 
trouble - - - - - - - 

Attending paying same, and keeping receipt 
Warrant on leaving two copies, and services 
Attending Mr. Gardner, pressing him to support a claim of 
Mrs. Batut's; informing him, if not done forthwith, we 
should exclude her altogether from the report: when he 
informed us, if we did, he should immediately file a bill - 6 8 

Attending warrant, as to Mrs. Batut's evidence in support of 
her charge, when Mr. Gardner undertook to have inter- 
rogatories on the (bllowing day - . _ _ 
Paid for copy of interrogatories — for twelve close copies 
Carriage of parcel from Pisa . _ . . 
Enclosing certificate ------ 

■Having received the above certificate of the death of Mr. 
Hungerford, attending Mr. Whittaker to get same trans- 
lated -.---.. 
■ Paid his charges --.-_. 
■Attending warrant to settle interrogatories as to Mrs. Batut's 
claim, when the master allowed same, subject to any ob- 
jection the defendant might make to the exhibits which 
were not left in the office - - - - _ 

Warrants for Mrs. Batut, to bring in exhibits copy and ser- 
vice — not in cause ------ 

July 17. — Attending counsel, in long conference, as to these 
interrogatories and exhibits - - . . 

Paid bis fee, and clerk - - . - _ 

Attending .---... 
Attending to Mr. Rush, in very long conference on the state of 
the suit, and advising with him as to incurring any extra 
expense in the inquiries after Mr. Hungerford's death 
Writing Messrs. Peniberton on the proposed exhibits, and copy 
Writing to Mr. Rush very fully, in answer to a letter received 
• from him as to probable time suit would take 
Drawing request to accountant general to invest dividends - 
Attending him thereon - - - _ _ 

Paid his fee - 

Attending Mr. Rush, informing him of the impossibility of 
obtaining report before office closed, and explaining the ne- 
cessity of giving Madame Batut the means of establishing 
her claim, rather than file a bill - - - - 6 8 

Attending warrant to proceed on Mrs. Batut's claim, when 

exhibits were left in support thereof •• - - 6 8 

Paid for copy examined, folios 28 - - - - 3 6 

dose copy - - - - - - - 9-4 

July 25.-Attending warrant and interrogatories when the same 



16 


8 


5 


6 


13 


4 


1 6 





6 


8 


13 


4 


5 





7 


6 


2 


6 


6 


8 


4 






13 


4 


2 





6 


8 


4 





1 





6 






Doc. No. 10. 47 

je .9. rf. 
were finally settled, the solicitors for Madame de la Batut 
having brought in exhibits - - - - 6 8 

Drawing and lair copy state of facts as to the death of Henry 

Hungerford, folios 48 - - - - - 1 12 

Warrant on leaving same, two copies and services - - 6 

Instructions for athdavits in support - - - - 6 8 

Drawing same, and fair copy, tblios 4 - - - 4 

Attending Mr. Hertslet several times to endeavor to get him 

to appoint a time to swear, but could not - - ■• 6 8 

Attending at the master's office to examine exhibits with the 

copies, and engaged comparing same, but found one missing 6 8 

Attending Mr. Rush in a very long conference on the subject 

of this suit -■ - - - - -- 13 '^4 

August 14. — Attending at the Foreign Office and conferring on 
the affidavit with Mr. Hertslet, when he requested us to 
leave the report, certificates, and affidavits with him, and 
he would appoint a time to swear affidavit 
Engrossing affidavit, folios 4 - 
Attending Mr. Hertslet to be sworn - - 

Paid oath and exhibit _ _ _ . . 

Paid his charges __.-_- 

Warrant on leaving copy and service _- _ _ 

Postage of letter to Mr. Tannin, in answer to his letter rela- 
tive to death of Mr. Hungerford - - - - IS 

Writing very long letter to Mr. Rush, informing him of what 

had taken place - - - - - - 50 

Instructions for further affidavits in support - - - 6 8 

Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 20 - - - 1 

Engrossing same - - - - - - 6 S 

Writing Mr. Rush, stating the result of our inquiries touching 
the property formerly belonging to Mr. Dickinson, under 
whose will Mrs. Batut claimed - - - - 5 

Sept. 2. — Attending Mr. Rush, conferring and explaining the 
position of Mrs. Batut 's claim, and the effect of the informa- 
tion received from France, from which it would appear that 
such claim was fraudulent - - - - - 13 4 

Instructions for affidavit of Mr. Whittaker as to verification 

of translated copy of report from Pisa 
Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 4 - - - 

■Copy report to annex as exhibit - . . _ 

Attending Mr. Whittaker, conferring thereon, and getting him 
to settle same -.---. 

Engrossing same, folios 4 - - - -. - 

Attending him to be sworn - - - - _ 

Paid oaths and exhibits - •• - - - 

Warrant and leaving copy and service 
Paid him for loss of time - - . ~ 

Attending swearing further affidavits in support of plaintiff'-'s 
facts --_-,._. 

Paid oath, &c. 
Term fee and letters ------ 



6 


8 


4 





10 





6 


8 


1 


4 


6 


8 


4 





8 


6 


1 i 





6 


8 


4 





1 1 


8 



48 Doc. No. 10. 

MICHAELMAS TERM, 1837. 

Warrant on leaving same, copy and service - - - 

Warrant to proceed on Mrs. Eatut's charge, copy and service 
Attending warrant, and proceeding thereon - - - 

Instructions for affidavit for Mr. Curdy, verifying translation 
of notarial act made at Paris after the decease of Mr. Hun- 
gerford - - - - - 

Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 4 - - 

Copy translation, to annex as an exhibit - - - 

Engrossing affidavit, folios 4 - 

Attending to be sworn - _ . . _ 

Paid oath, &c. -_.... 

Warrant on leaving two copies and ser^ace - - 

Warrant on leaving further evidence - - - - 

Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference on the progress 
of, and advising on, this suit, and taking his instructions 
thereon ---__.- 
Paid for transcript of account . _ _ . 

Attending bespeaking, and afterwards for same 
Drawing request to accountant general to invest dividends - 
i Attending bespeaking investment of dividends 
Paid fee' -.--... 

Instructions for affidavit of Mr. Ilertslet, verifying notarial act 
as to death of Mr. Hungerford - . . - 

Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 4 - - - 

Attending him to peruse and settle same . . _ 

Engrossing same .-..-- 
Attending him to be sworn ----- 
Paid oatii and exhibit . _ . . _ 

Paid his charge ..-_--. 

W^arrant on leaving two copies and services - - * - 

Warrant to proceed on state of facts, and charge of plaintiff, 

as to death of Mr. Ilungerford, copy and service - - (j 

Attending warrant, same proceeded with and allowed, and 

warrant ordered to be issued on Mrs. Batul's charge - (J 8 

Warrant to proceed on state of facts, and charge of Mrs. Ba- 

tut's, copy and service - - - - - 8 6 

Attending bespeaking transcript in original cause, and after- 
wards for same ----- 68 

Paid ^0 

Sept. 29. — Attending Mr. Rush, reporting and advising on the 

progress of the proceedings in the master's office - - 6 8 

Pec. 4. Attending warrant and proceeding on facts andcharge 

of Mrs. Batut, when the master directed another warrant 

to issue - - - - - - - 68 

Warrant to proceed, three copies and service - - - 8 6 

Attending warrant when the master said he thought she had 
established a claim to half of the income of the French 
fund, but would give us leave to inquire and prove, if we 
could, that it had been already satisfied and he directed us , 



s. 


d. 


6 





8 


6 


6 


8 


6 


8 


4 







8 


1 


4 


6 


8 


4 





6 





6 





13 


4 


4 





6 


8 


2 


6 


6 


8 


4 





6 


8 


4 





6 


8 


1 


4 


6 


8 


4 





1 





6 






IJoc. No. 10. 49 

£. s. d. 
to obtain an order to state special circumstances in regard 
to her claim, the words ot" the decree not being sutlicient - - 6 8 

Writing Mr. Rush vtny fully thereon - - - 5 

Attending Mr. Rush in a very long conference, and advising 
with him on the expediency of opposing Mrs. Batut's claim, 
•as it would cause nmch delay, and stop the order on further 
directions; and explaining same fully to him, when he pro- 
mised to consider the same, and see us again thereon - 13 4 
Dec. 14. — Attending Mr. Rijsh in very long conference as to 
Mrs. Batut, on his having duly considered the subject ; when 
he instructed us to write to Paris to obtain such evidence 
as we could, and lay same before counsel, to advise on the 
expediency of opposing Mrs. Batut's claim, we being of 
- opinion that evidence might be obtained that would repel her 
claim - - - - - - -134 

Dec. 1.9. — Attendhig at the Fordgn Office to make inquiry 
touching the swearing of affidavits abroad before a proper 
tribunal, and found that they could be sworn before the 
British consul - - - - - - 6S 

Instructions for a ffidavit to be sworn by the stock-broker who 

transferred same - - -- - - & ^ 

Drawing same and fair copy, folios 6, and fair copy to send 

to Paris - - - - - - - 6 

Instructions for affidavit of a notary as to some documents in 

his possession relative to the transfer - - - 6 S 

Drawing same and fair copy, folios 8 -. - - 8 

Fair copy to send to Paris - - - - - 2 8 

Writing Mr. Truftant therewith and fully thereon, and urging 
him to get affidavits sworn if possible in their prese]it shape, 
but, if not, to advise with some English solicitor at Paris - . 7 6 
Dec. 20. — Postage letter from Mr. Truftant requiring further 
instruction - - - - - 

Writing to him very fully thereon - - - 

Instructions to amend decree - - _ . 

Drawing notice of motion to amend decree - . _ 

Copy and service 

Drawing and engrossing affidavit of service - - - 

Attending swearing ------ 

Paid oath ----.__ 

Attending filing and for office copy - - _ _ 

Paid -.---.-. 
Drawing brief for counsel to move - - - - 

Paid him and clerk ------ 

Attending him - - 

Jan. S, 1838. — Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference 

on the progress of the cause, &c. - - . - 

Term fee, &c. - - - .' , 

4 



1 


2 


7 


6 


13 


4 


2 





2 





6 





6 


8 


1 


6 


6 


S 


6 





10 





3 


6 


6 


S 


13 


4 


1 


8 



50 Doc. No. 10. 



Hilary terin, 1838. 



d. 



7 


6 


2 





1 





6 


8 


6 


8 


1 





6 


8 



Jan. 11. — Attending court, motion made and ordered accord- 
ingly - - - - - - -134 

Postage of letter to JNlr. Truftant requesting to be furnished 

with a copy of Mrs. Batut's claim - - - 12 

Copy same, to send, folios 'i^ - - - - 120 

Writing iiim very fully therewith and thereon 

Paid for copy minutes _ _ _ _ _ 

Close copy - - ' - - - - - 

Attending settling - - - - - 

Paid for order _--.-- 

Attending register to draw up and pass order 
Paid entering _._--- 

Attending to enter sauic _ . - - - 

Jan. 23. — Postage of a letter from Mr. Truftant, containing a 
certificate, signed by the charge d'aflaires, which, from his 
letter, appeared the best evidence he could procure for us - 2 4 

Writing him that same was not sufficient, and requesting to 
know, per return, whether or not the stock-broker could 
make an affidavit as to ftict of instructing him thereon, and, 
if he could not procure such affidavit, to make one himself 7 6 

Jan. 30. — Postage letter from Mr. Truftant - - - 5 

Jan. 31. — Attending Mr. Rush, fully conferring as to the inqui- 
ries touching Mrs. Batufs claim, when he stated he would 
consider same, and decide whether to proceed or not - 13 4 

Feb. 5. — Attending Mr. Rush on his wishing to know the re- 
sult of the proceedings if the claim of Mrs. Batut were re- 
sisted, and to what extent the proceedings might be carried 
by her, and explaining same very fully to him, when he 
wished us to write a letter to him thereon - - - 

Wailing letter and copy - . . - - 

Peb. f). — Attending counsel in long conference on the evidence 
obtained from Paris, and as to the expediency of bringing 
same into the master's office _ . _ - 

Fee to him and clerk thereon ... - 

Attending ihm - - - - - 

Copy of Mr. Truftant's affidavit, to keep - - - 

Warrant on leaving, three copies, and services - . 

Warrant to proceed on claim, three copies, and services 
Feb. 1<». — Attending warrant and proceeding on state of facts 
and affidavits in opposition to Mrs. Batut's claim, when 
clyim allowed - - - - - - 68 

Warrant to show cause why warrant on preparing draught re- 
port should not issue, three copies, and .services - - • 8 6 
Feb. 21. — Attendins: warrant, no cause shown - - 6 8 
Warrant, on preparing three copies, and services 
Copy will of testator for the master, folios 8 - 
Paid for copy draught report, folios 48 - - - 
Close copy - - - - - - -16 

March 1. — Warrant to settle, three copies, and services - 8 6 



13 


4 


5 





13 


4 


1 6 


a 


6 


8 


2 


8 


S 


6 


8 


6 



8 6 
2 8 
6 O 



Doc. No. 10. 51 

£ s. d. 

Attending same - - - - - - 68 

Attending Messrs. Pemberton, conferring very fully on the 
draught report and the several inaccuracies therein, and cal- 
culating amount of arn^ars, &c. due - - - 6 8 
Attending warrant on charge of Messrs. Clarke & Co., when 

same allowed - - - - - - 68 

Paid for copy same, folios 6 - - - - - 9 

Close copy - - - -- - - 20 

Paid for copy affidavit in support, folios 4 - - - 6 

Close copy - - - - - - - 14 

Another warrant to settle report, three copies, and services - 8 6 

Attending warrant and settling report ; but the master directed 
many additions to be made thereto, and an affidavit to be 
obtained from a broker in the city as to the amount of ex- 
change -- -- - - - 68 

Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference thereon before, 
at, and after the above warrant, when he directed us to 
obtain the order on further directions as soon as possible - 
March 9. — Attending Mr. Rush again, conferring fully herein 
March \2. — Attending Messrs. Pemberton as to the cause of 
delay in obtaining the necessary affidavit, when they prom- 
ised to bring same in in a few days . . . 
Paid for copy affidavit of Mr. Boyd, tblios 6 - 
Close copy - 

March 17. — Attending warrant and proceeding on state of facts 
March 20. — Paid for fresh copy report, folios 44 
Close copy _-.,_..- 
Warrant to sign, three copies, and services - - - 

Attending same _.---. 

Paid for drawing, signing, and transcribing report 
Paid filing and for otfice copy - - - - 

Attending to file - - - 

Drawing and engrossing petition to confirm report absolute 

in the first instance - - 

Attending getting consents - - - - - 

Attending to present - - - - 

Paid answer and for order ----- 

Two copies and services on clerks in court ... 
Draught on Pemberton - _ _ . _ 

Drawing and engrossing petition, to set down cause on fur- 
ther directions and costs - - - . - 
Attending to present ------- 

Paid answer and setting down cause, &c, - - - 

Two copies, and services, order on clerks in court 
Draught on Messrs. Pemberton _ . . . 

Attending defendant's solicitor for consent to hear cause im- 
mediately ------- 

Making copy decree for the master of the rolls, four sides 
Do. report, folios 4S - 

Attending to leave same _ - - . - 

Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference, explaining that 



13 


4 


13 


4 


6 


8 




9 


2 





6 


8 


5 


e 


14 


8 


8 


6 


6 


8 


9 


6 


16 


10 


6 


8 


4 





6 


8 


6 


8 


7 





4 





2 


6 


4 





6 


8 


19 





4 





2 


6 


13 


4 


2 


8 


16 


Q 


6 


8 



m Doc. No. 10. 



£ 



the report had been confirmed, and giving him extracts of 
ail the dates and proceedings, &c., and advising him as to 
tlie future proceedings, &c. - - - - 13 4 

Drawing and engrossing copy affidavit of service of order to 

set cause down - - - - - - 34 

Attending to be sworn - - - - - 6 8 

Paid oath - - - - - - - 16 

Attending filing and afterwards for same - - - 6 8 

Paid fihng and for office copy - - - - 3 4 

Attending Mr. Rush, informing him cause was set down and 

would be Iieard in Easter term, and conferring thereon - 13 4 

Instructions for petition - - - - - 6 8 

Drawing and fair copy petition to be heard with the cause, on 

further directions, folios 88 - - - -480 

Attending Mr. Rush, conferring thereon, when he wished 

counsel to be advised with thereon - - - 13 4 

Attending conlerring with My. Shadwell thereon, Avhen he 
advised cause to be set down and petition to be presented 
afterv/ards ------- 

Paid his fee and clerk - - - . _ 

Attending him ------ 

Drawing proposed minutes, folios 12 - 

Fair copy for Mr. Shadwell - - - . - 

Attending liim in conference and settling same 
Paid his fee and clerk - - - 

Attending him - ■ - 

Two copies miinites for defendants - - - _ 

Attending them therewith and thereon, and finally agreeing 

to same ------- 

Drawing brief on further directions, seven brief-sheets 

Two fair copies for counsel - - - - - 

Drawing observations for plauitiff, two brief-sheets - 

Two fair copies for counsel - - - - _ 

Attending JNIessrs. Pemberton on their requesting some in- 
formation in order to draw their petition, and giving them 
same, engaged some time, term fee, &c. - - - 1 1 8 

EASTER TERM, 1838. 

Attending to bespeak and afterwards for certificate of funds 
in court in this cause . - . _ _ 

The like in original cause - - - - > 

Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk, with brief - - - 

Attending him 

Fee to Mr. Shadwell and clerk . . _ . 

Attending him - • . - . . 

Attending Mr. Shadwell, obtaining his certificate for cause to 

be Iieard short - - - - -- 68 

Attending register therewith, and getting cause put in the 

paper lor next short cause day - - - - 6 8 





13 


4 


1 


6 







6 


S 




19 







4 







13 


4 


1 


6 







6 


8 




6 


8 




13 


4 


2 


6 


8 


2 


6 


8 




13 


4 




13 


4 



6 


8 


6 


8 


10 





6 


8 


5 


6 


6 


8 



6 


8 


2 9 


6 


1 3 


<> 


6 


s- 


5 





13 


4 


5 






Doc. No. 10. 5:i 

£ s. (L 
Attending Mr. Pemberton to appoint a consultation at West- 
minster ------- 

Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk thereon - . . 

The like, Mr. Shadwell - - . - 

Attendnig him - - 

Writing to Mr. Rush informing him of consultation - 
Attending consultation when Mr. Pemberton expressed his 
regret that the petition had not been presented, and directed 
Mr. Shadwell to draw same immediately - - - 

Paid for room 

May 1. — Mr. Clarke and Fladgate's attending court ; cause 
heard and ordered as per minutes, agreed, but the order to 
stand over for petition to come on as to funds being paid to 
Mr. Rush - - ■ - - - - - 2 2 

Paid court fees - - - - - -.130 

Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference, explaining to him 
fully what had taken place, and he directed us to use all ex- 
pedition - - - - - - -134 

Perusing and considering former petition, and altering same 
in many respects - - - - - - 

Fee to Mr. Shadwell to peruse and settle - - - 

Attending him -___-- 

Engrossing same and paper, folios 77 

Copy for the master of the rolls - .* . - 

Attending presenting petition, when the secretary directed that 

it be taken to Westminster to be answered by a certain day 6 8 

Attending Mr. Pemberton, instructing him to get day appoint- 
ed accordingly - - - - - - Q S- 

Attending court when Mr. Pemberton mentioned it to the 

court, and it was ordered to be answered for Tuesday next 6 & 

Attending his lordship's secretary, and getting same answered , 
accordingly .____- 

Paid answering - - - - - 

2 copies petition for service, folios 77, each - - - 2 

Attending serving the same on clerks in court 

Drawing and engrossing affidavit of service - - - 

Attending to be sworn - - 

Paid oath - - - - , 

Attending to file and for office copy - - - - 

Paid for office copy ------ 

2 brief copies petition, S brief sheets, each - - - 2 

Drawing observations to accompany 2 brief sheets - 
2 brief copies for counsel - . - - - 

Attending Mr. Rush again hereon, conferring and advising 

very fully hereon - - - -- - 134 

Attending register to get original decree altered, as directed by 
the court, and after some trouble getting same altered ac- 
cordingly ------. 

Attending to enter and afterwards for same - 

Paid at entering seat for alteration - _ - . 

Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk with brief petition - 



1 


I 


o 


3 


5 


6 




6 


S 


1 


8 


s 


1 


S 


8 



6 


S 


6 


& 


17 


4 


4 





6 


4- 
8 


1 


6 


6 


S 


3 


4 


13 


4 


13 


4 


13 


4 



13 


4 


6 


8 


1 


O 


4 


e 



54 Doc. ]Vo. 10. 



£ 



s. 


d. 


6 


8 


3 


6 


6 


8 


5 





13 


4 


7 





13 


4 


5 





2 


4 








6 


8 



Attending him ..-.._ 

Fee to Mr. Shadwell and clerk - - - - I 

Attending him __._.. 

Writing Mr. Rush that the court would not sit on Tuesday, 

and that petition would be in on Wednesday- 
Attending court, petition heard and ordered as prayed 
Paid court fees _...-- 

Attending Mr. Rush on the amount of funds in the cause, and 
writing him out full particulars thereof, and taking his in- 
structions to expedite the transfer and payment to him 
Writmg to Mr. Truftant as to his charges and expenses, &c. - 
Paid postage letter enclosing same - - - - 

Paid same to his agents - - - - - 10 

Attending paying same and for receipt . . . 

Writing Mr. Rush, at his request, with full particulars of what 
took place at the hearing of the cause and also of the peti- 
tion, and generally on the cause - - - - 7 6 
Attending Mr. Hussey to draw up minutes, when he said the 
registrar, Mr. Callis, who was in court on the petition,ought to 
draw them up: attending on Mr. Callis and with him to Mr. 
Hussey, and arguing same, when it was finally determined 
that Mr. Hussey should draw up the minutes, and date them 
the 12th — engaged upwards of an hour . - - 
Paid for copy minutes of decree . _ - - 
Close copy thereof -.--_. 
Several attendances upon the registrar, to procure him to pass 
order, which was at length done - - - - 
Paid for order on further directions - - - . 
Paid expenditure - - - - - 
Term fee, &c. - - - - - 

TRINITY TERM, 1838. 

Attending passing same . . . . - 

Paid entering same ------ 

Attending .-.--.- 
Making copy ordering part of decree for the master - 
Drawing this bill of costs, and fair copy for the master, fos. ISO 
Warrant on leaving same, copy and service - - - 

May 8. — Warrants to tax copies and services - " - 

Attending same ------ 

Paid clerk in court ------ 

Warrant for defendants to bring in their costs, two copies and 
services -._.._-- 
Paid for copy defendant Drummond's costs, folios 72 
Attending three warrants, taxing same . - . 

Paid clerk in court ------ 

Paid for copy attorney general's costs, folios 16 

Attending warrant, taxing same - - - - 

Paid clerk in court - - - 

Paid for certificate of costs and transcribing - - - 



13 


4 


10 





5 





1 6 


8 


3 10 





10 





1 1 


8 





13 


4 




6 


6 




6 


S 




2 


6 


6 










4 


6 


1 


16 





2 


13 


4 


2 


13 


4 




6 







9 





1 








1 










2 







6 


8 




6 


8 


1 





G 



s. 


d. 


G 


8 


3 


10 


6 


S 


2 


4 


6 


8 


5 






Doc. No. 10. 55 

Attending to file - - - - - 

Paid filing same _ - . - - 

Attending accountant general's, bespeaking clerks 
Paid entering clerk for costs - . - - 

Attending bespeaking carrying over of the funds and cash 

from Hungerford vs. Drummond to this cause 
Paid ------ 

Attending bespeaking carrying over of £5,015, bank £3 per 

cents, to Mrs. Batut's account, paid - - - 6 8 

Attending bespeaking direction for transfer of all the funds to 

Mr. Rush in the £3 per cent, annuities 
Paid - - - - - 

The like on reduced annuities . _ - 

The like on bank stock - - - - 

Attending bespeaking transfer to Mr. R. Rush 

Paid ------ 

Paid messenger - - - 

Instructions for affidavit as to residue of cash 
Drawing and fair copy affidavit ' - 
Attending to be sworn - _ . - 

Paid oath - - - _ - 

Paid for office copy - . _ 

Attending bespeaking check of residue of cash 
Paid clerks for their trouble _ « - 

Attending to identify Mr. Rush - - - 

Paid entering check . _ - - 

Term fee, &c. - - 

Letters, messengers, &.c. - - - . 

For various attendance, not hereinbefore enumerated, on 
Messrs. Derby and Raven, the solicitors for the attorney gen- 
eral; Messrs. Pemberton, Crowley, and Gardner, the solici- 
tors for Mr. de la Batut ; and Mr. Cullington, the solicitor for 
Mr. Fitall, to urge their proceeding in the several matters 
connected with the suit with all possible expedition ; it 
being the earnest wish of Mr. Rush that the suit should 
be brought to a final conclusion with the least possible delay 5 5 
May 25. — Attending Mr. Rush ; conferring very fnlly with him 
as to the several matters remaining to be clone to wind up 
the suit - - - - -134 

June 2. — Attending JMr. Rush in a long conference as to wind- 
ing up the suit, and the difficulties we had to encounter in 
the accountant general's office - - - 13 4 

Attending in the city to make inquiries as to the transfer of 
stock, and found it would not be made until Tuesday, but 
that Mr. Rush could sell it out the same day - - 13 4. 

Writing to Mr. Rush to inform him thereof, and special mes- 
senger with letter - - - - 7 6 

Attending Mr. Rush afterwards, informing him what arrange- 
ment we should suggest to him as to selling the stock - 6 3 
June 4. — Attending Mr Rush again this day, conferring on the 
transfer of stock, and as to winding up the suit ; and he re- 





6 


8 




2 


6 




9 


2 




9 


2 




13 


4 


1 


4 







1 


6 




6 


8 




6 


8 




6 


8 




1 


6 




4 


8 




6 


8 


5 


5 







6 


8 




2 


4 


1 


1 


3 


1 


10 






66 Doc. No. 10. 



-^ -. d. 



X. 



quested us to write liim an official letter announcing the 

transfer of the funds - - - - 13 4 

Attending at the accountant general's, to learn if the stocks 

were transferred, whic'i we found was done - - 6 8 

Writing an official letter to Mr. Rush to inform him thereof, 

according to his request - - - - 5 

June 5. — Attending Mr. Rush, conferring very fully in what 
remained to be done, and as to the steps to be taken by him 
to realize the fimds - - - - 13 4 

June 6. — Attending Mr. Rush on the subject of the residue of 
cash in court, which was to be paid to him, and explaining 
that we could procure same out of court by Saturday ; and 
he requested to be furnished with a copy of the list of arti- 
cles deposited with Mr. Deacon - - - 13 4 

Copy list for him, (schedule markedF ;) one trunk only, (see list) 2 6 

June 8. — Attending the accountant general's to learn if check 
was leady for Mr. Rush, and found it was, and would be 
signed this day - - - - -68 

Writing to Mr. Rusli to inform him thereof, and to make an 

appointment for him to attend and receive same - 5 

June 12. — Attending Mr. Deacon to ascertain if the boxes 
could be sent to our office ; and he not being at home, writing 
to him thereon - - - - - 6 8 

June 18. — Attending Mr. Deacon to make appointment for 

Mr. Rush to attend to inspect contents of boxes - - 6 8 

Writing to Mr. Rush to inform him - •• - 5 

June 20. — Attending at Mr. Deacon's, 31 Upper Norton street, 
to meet Mr. Rush to inspect the contents of boxes, &c. ; but 
the boxes being more numerous than he expected, he de- 
ferred the close examination of them for the present - 13 4 

June 30. — Attending Mr. Rush, conferring on what remained 
to be done, and makmg arrangements with him as to send- 
ing tlic box we had here, together with the plate and other 
articles, to Mr. Deacon's, where we should meet him and 
Colonel Aspinwall, the consul, and seal all the boxes up - 13 4 

Making list of the plate and other articles - - - 5 

Mr. Rush wishing to know what the several funds would 
have realized if they could have been sold immediately 
upon the death of Mr. Hungerford, attending at Messrs. 
Drr.mmond's to learn what the prices of the several stocks 
then were, and making a calculation accordingly ; and draw- 
ing out a statement for Mr. Rush, from which it appeared 
that, after deducting all the costs, the lunds had realized 
£173 I2s. Id. more now than they would have done if the 
funds had all been sold immediately ujjon the decease of 
Mr. Hungerford - - - - - - 2 2 

Paid for a new lock to box - - - - - 5 

July G. — AUending at Mr. Deacon's to meet Mr. Rush and 
Colonel Aspinwall, when the several boxes were sealed up, 
and directions given for their transmission to the wharf - 110 



Doc. No. 10. 57 

£ s. d. 
Attending at the accountant general's, to bespeak a transcript 

of account -,- - - - - - 68 

Paid for same -- - - - - 80 

Attending to procure same - - - - --68 

Several other attendancies upon Mr. Rush, furnishing him 

with all such further information as he required .previous to 

his leaving this country for America - - - 3 3 

Letters and messengers, coach-hire, and various incidental 

expenses - - - - - - -15 



£490 4 10 



IN CHANCERY. 

Between the President of the United States of Amevica., plaintiff, 

and 
Chas. Drummond, Esq., and her Majesty's Attorney General, defendants. 

Thomas Clarke, Thomas George Fynmore, and William Mark Flad- 
gate, of Craven street, Strand, in the county of Middlesex, solicitors and 
copartners, severally mske oath and say, that the several disbursements 
contained in the aforegoing account have been duly made, and that the 
several charges therein contained are just and true, to the best of these 
deponents' knowledge and belief. 

THOMAS CLARKE, 
THOS. G. FYNMORE, 
WM. M. FLADGATE. 

Sworn by all the deponents, at the public office, Southampton Buildings, 
in the county of Middlesex, the 11th day of July, 183S, before me, 

E. WINGFIELD. 



Jlccount of Thomas AspinwaU. 

I, Thomas Aspinwall, of London, being duly sworn on the Holy Evan- 
gelists, do declare and depose that the within account is just and true, 
and that the services therein referred to and specified in the vouchers of 
said account, signed by me, and marked respectively No. 1, No. 2, were 
duly and actually performed. 

THOS. ASPINWALL. 

Sworn this seventeenth day of July, 1838, at London, before me. 

J. COWAN, Mayor. 



58 



Doc. No, 10. 



The Hon. Richard Rush, agent for the Smithsonian fund, in account 

current ivith Thomas Jlspinicall. 
Dr. Cr. 



1838. 


'■'■• ' ^ 




1838. 




July 16. 


To am't of invoice of 
sovereit^ns, procured 
and shipped on board 
the Mediator, as per 




July 16. 


By cash received from 
him - - -£106,3'70 7 3 




copy herewith, £105,565 12 5 




, 




To commission for va- 










rious services, as per 










account No. 1, here- 










with, - - - 


797 15 6 








To charges on 14 pack- 










ages, shipped on board 










the Mediator, as per 










account No. 2, here- 










with, _ . . 


• 6 19 4 








C106,370 7 3 


£106,370 7 3 



THOS. ASPINWALL. 



London, July 17, 1838. 



(No. 1.) 

The Hon. Richard Rush in account with the Smithsoyiian fund, 

To Tho?)tas ^.^spijiwall, Dr. 

For services rendered throughout the month of June and up to this date, 
ill July ; in attending your acceptance of all the stocks transferred to 
you by the accountant general of the court of chancery: advising, ne- 
gotiating, and completing, under your directions, and realizing the pro- 
ceeds of various contracts for the sale of the same stocks, consistina* of 
consols, bank stock, and tliree per cent, reduced annuities, sold at ditfer- 
ent periods and in diiierent parcels; attending payment and receipt of 
balances, dividend, and the respective transfers to the various purchasers 
of the same ; obtaining, verifying, arranging, packing, and securing for 
shipment 104,900 sovereigns, being the amount of proceeds of the 
Smithsonian fund, (less premuims of insurance, charges, and expenses;) 
contracting for freiglit; entering and clearing at the custom-house; 
shipping and effecting insurance at the five principal offices, and with 
thirty-two private underwriters at Lloyd's. 

Commission at -| per cent. . - - ^6797 I5s. 6d. 

THOMAS ASPINWALL. 
London, Juli/ 17, 1838. 

London, July 17, 1838. 

Received of the honorable Richard Rush the within-mentionedsum seven 
hundred and ninety-seven pounds fif.een shillings and sixpence sterling, 
(£797 I5s. Gd.) for which I have credited in my accounts, and also signed 
this and a duplicate receipt of the same tenor and date. 

THOMAS ASPINWALL. 

£797 15*. Qd. 



The honorable Richard Rush 

To 



Doc. No. 10. 59 

London, July 13, 1838. 



To unpacking and repacking 14 packages, at 2s. 6d. - 
•cord and nails for mending do. 



Paid 14th July, 1838. 

WILLIAM BROWN. 

A true copy original in Thomas Aspin wall's account, 

JAMES M. CURLEY. 



£ 


s. 


d. 


1 


15 







3 


6 


£1 


18 


6 



(No. 2.) 

July 13, 1838. 

t/lccount of charges on 14 packages, marked " the United States,^'' Nos, 

1 to 14, shipped on board the ship Mediator, Christopher H. Champ- 

lin master, by order of the honorable Richard Rush, for account and 

risk of the Government of the United States. 

£ s. d. 

Cartage and porterage - - - - -106 

Duty and entry - - - - - -126 

Dock dues - - - - - - . - 15 10 

Bills of lading - - - - - - 3 6 

1 packing-case (No. 14) - - - - - 3 6 

Shipping, entering, and clearing 14 packages, at 2*. 6(/. - 1 15 

Cord and nails for mending do. - - - - 3 6 

*Unpacking and repacking do., and cording, mending, and 

securing, at 2*. 6fl?. each - - - - -1150 



£6 19 4 



Received the above amount in account with Mr. Rush : 

THOMAS A SPIN WALL. 



Mediator, Champlin, New York. 

T. ASPINWALL. 
British coin for and on account. Entry, 5s. 6d. 

THOMAS TANNER. 
Witness : James M. Curley. 
July 17, 1S38. 



' J 



When paid, to be immediately exhibited at the Department, where this 
bill has been made out; by which business will be materially expedited. 

* In consequence of the very loose and 6areless manner in which the boxes were originally 
packed, and of the damaged state of the packages, this charge was unavoidably incurred to pre- 
«nt the contents from being ground to pieces, and lost on the passage to the United States. 



60 Doc. No. 10. 

St. Catharine Docks, No. 1872, ivharf age-hook, outwards. 

Mr. JipinwaU, Br. to the St. Catharine Dock Company. 

N. B. — The amount of these charges to be paid to the collector, who is 
the only officer authorized to receive money on account of the company. 

183S. Per Mediator — , £, s. d. 

Tuly 17. [A] 1 to 10, wharfage and shipping 10 cases, at 2*. 10 

11, do. do. 1 case, at 1*. 1 



1 1 



(One pound one shilling.) 
July 17, 183S. 

Received, H. WHARTON, Collector. 
Witness : James M. Curley. 
(Entered schedule.) 

The invoice having necessarily been made up before the cases v/ere 
actually shipped on board, the usual charge of ten shillings was inserted 
therein ; and it was not ascertained, until after they were shipped, that a 
difference was made with respect to bullion ; amounting, in this instance, 
to eleven, shillings, which has not been paid by Mr. Rush, but by Thomas 
Aspinwall, and by him relinquished. 

T. Aspimoall, Esq. to bullion porters, Dr. 
1838. 

July 16. 11 boxes and packing sovereigns, at 3*. Qd. 
" 105 bags for sovereigns, at Qd. 
" For packing and marking 



£ 


s. 


d. 


1 


18 


6 


2 


12 


G 





2 


6 


4 


13 


6 



Witness : James M. Curley. 

Paid: C. HARD INGHAM. 

Colonel Aspinwall to Mrs. Clark, Dr. 

1838. 

July 17. For cartage and porterage of eleven boxes of 
bullion from the bank to the St. Cathaiine's 
dock, - - - - . S shillings. 

Received: HExNRY x POTTER. 

Witness : James M. Curley. 



Invoice of eleven boxes of gold coin, shipped on boated the ship Mediator, 
of New York, Christopher IL Chmnplin master, bound to New York, 
by order of the Hon. Richard Rush, and for the account and risk of 
the United States. 

£ s. d. 

A 1 to 10. Tenboxes,eachcontaining£10,000, (sovereigns) 100,000 
11. One box, containing - _• . _ 4,960 8 7 



104.960 S 7 



Doc. No. 10. 



61 



Charf^es. 



105 bags, at Qd. each - 

11 boxes, at 3.s. 6f/. each 

Pacldug and markmg - 

Porterage and cart-hire - 

Bills of lading - 

Eiitry 5s. 6d., dock charges 10*. 

Insurance on ^£106,400, at -\ per cent. 
Policies and stamp-duties 



Insured with the Indemnity, 
Insured with the London Insurance, 
Insured with the Alliance, 
Insured with the Royal Exchange, 
Insnred with the Marine Insurance, 
Insured at Lloyd's, 



£ 


S. 


d. 


£ s. d. 


- 2 


12 


6 




- 1 


18 


6 




. 


2 


6 




. 


8 







- 


3 


6 




- 


15 


6 


6 6 


• 333 










- 67 


3 


4 


599 3 4 




a 


' 




\ 


£105,565 12 5 


THOMAS ASPINWALL. 








Policy and duty. 


£ 




£ 


£. s. d. 


30.000, 


for 150 


18 15 


10,000, 


for 


50 


6 5 


20,000, 


for 100 


12 10 


15,000, 


for 


75 


9 7 6 


10,000, 


for 


50 


6 5 


21,400, 


for 107 

£532 


14 10 


iei06,400 


£67 3 4 



Mem.— The sovereigns are packed in bags of 100 each, with the ex- 
ception of one, in case No. 11, which contains 960 sovereigns, and 8 shil- 
lings and 7 pence wrapped in paper ; each case being sealed with two 
seals. 

July 16, 1S3S. 



62 



Doc. No. 10. 









•2. 



O 



<! 



O 



-«; 
ft; 









05 



05 



u-3 
CO 

o 



05 



a u 

3 - 

.2 "" 

eS o 

ex u 

J S 

- a. 



M 

O t 



el (u u 



f* o 






ai 



as 



a « 



3 CA r^ 

O u ■5 
P3 






-g.t^ 



o o 

&. s 

oS ' 
> *"> 

2 « t. 









in 

03 



<o 



05 



to- 
es 

(O 



o 


t^ M o 


eo 


•^ 


ec w o 


t~ 


05 


lO o o 

« .-H O 

i> ^ OJ 


o 
eo 


CO 




o 



«(i 









<o 

00 

in 



Q 

o 

00 

to" .-T 
o ^ 



o 
o 






in 



o 
o 






o o o o 
o in o lO 

»— * r-i 

t^ CO o e* 

CO Tjt in CO 

C<» — C< M 

sTceTo «r 



CO 

CD 

CO 



o 

CO 






I I I 



o 






O CO 

Go 

in CO 






rt .. OS 
2 =3 ^ 

c 

- o 

^ CJ 



r3 

<u 



in bs •<* 

0> |05 CT> 



"^3 

O o 

«0 
o © 

*» o 



O CO CO 
CO b- M 



^ o 

C^ M 






C 
bO 



bo 
a 



es 9 C u, 

I- OJ Q) O) 

uj "^3 " K O 

^ C >- C ^ 

o 03 g oi o 

o ^ 0-. >- t- 

"to t^co H ?Q 

bo S p 

c -'- • 

-5 O to 

"5 '<- <* 

«*5 O "-< 

2 -jj lo 

•^ S CO 

♦^ gm 



o 
u 



-o 

u 

s 






c 
u 



1—1 V. 

C ^ 
S* o 



CO CO 



o o 



•^ Tj" in in 
o o o o 
c* N e* c» 



13 O O O 
7; -3 13 na 



cj 
O 

«... 

000 

r^ -O T3 13 
C 

J3 



© O © O 



000© 



C 

a 

is '" 

Pd t« o 

I 2 2 



c ' J: 

3 

o 

CJ 

t) 

C3 
« 



o 

u 



c 
CO 



>. 

'S 
u 



o 
o 
© 

© 

CO 



© 
o 

© 



c © 


© 


0000 


© 


© © '-' 


.— 1 






in CO m CO 


CO 




.— i 




«»i 



c<- a 

o ^ 

a, o 

c © 

J2 - 

-= o 

o " 



S©~ 

a> 

CJ © 
■ o) o 

^— ^co 
to 

':2i3 

o ^ 

u o 

.13 g> 

.0 c 

0) C > 

*-» - 

S o 



3 3 

c o 

s s 

03 <A 

o o 



/ 



Doc. No. 10. 63 

F. 

Schedule referrei to in the bill of costs. 
A large trunk ; 

A box containing sundrj'- specimens of minerals, marked E ; 
A brass instrument ; 
A box of minerals, marked F ; 
A box of chemical glasses, marked G ; 
A packet of minerals, marked H ; 
A glass vinegar cruet ; 
A stone mortar : 

A pair of silver-plated candlesticks and branches ; 
A pair of silver-plated candlesticks, no branches ; 
A hone in a mahogany case ; 
A plated wire flower-basket ; 
A plated coffee-pot ; 
A plated small one j 
A pair of wine-coolers ; 
A pair small candlesticks ; 
Two pairs of saltcellars ; 
A bread-basket ; 

Two pairs of vegetable dishes and covers ; 
A large round waiter ; 
A large oval do. ; two small do. ; 
Two plate-warmers ; 
A reading-shade ; 

Sundry articles in packet and in trunk. 

(a) A gun ; 

(a) A malioganj'^ cabinet ; 

(a) Two portraits, in oval frames. 

China tea-service, viz : 

(a) Twelve cups and saucers ; 

(a) Six coffee-cups ; 

(a) A tea-pot ; 

(a) A slop-basin ; 

(a) Sugar-basin and lid ; 

(a) Two plates ; 

(a) Milk-jug; 

{a) Tea-canister ; 

(a) Two dishes ; 

{a) A landscape, in a gilt frame ; 

\a) A Derby spa vase ; , , 

(a) A China tub ; 

(a) A piece of fluor; 

(«) A pair of glass candlesticks ; 

A marble bust. 

Books. 

Sundry pamphlets on philosophical subjects, in packet marked A j 
The like, marked B ; 



64 Doc. No. 10. 

Struggles through life ; 

Bibliotheca Parisiana; 

La Platinal'Or Blanc; < 

Contorides des Indiens ; 

Sundry pamphlets on philosophical subjects, marked C ; 

Weld's Travels in North America, 2 vols ; 

Bray's Derbyshire ; 

Twenty-three numbers of Nicholson's Journal of Natural Philosophy, 
in a case, (D ;) 

Memoire d'un Voyageur qui le repose ; 

Hamilton in Antrim 

Londres et de ses Environs ; 

Stew on Solids ; 

Essais de Jean Key ; 

ISIon Bonnet de Nuit ; 

Domestic Cookery ; 

Catalogne de Fossils des Roches ; 

The Monthly Reviiw, 7S Nos. ; 

The Monthly Review, 26 volumes ; 
• Philosophical Transactions for the year 1826 ; 

Anthologies et Fragments Philosophiqucs, 4 volumes; 

Two large boxes filled with specimens of minerals and manuscript trea- 
tises, apparently in the testator's handwriting, on varioi ^ philosophical 
subjects, particularly chemistry and mineralogy ; 

Eight cases and one trunk filled with the like. 

Those articles to which this mark (a) is prefixed were not in the trunk 
No. 13 when it was first opened in the consulate of the United States in 
our presence. 

All the linen in trunk No. 13 was transferred from case 7, and sundry ar- 
ticles of plated ware and philosophical instruments, &c, were transferred 
from case 12. Sundry books, which were tied together, were also put in 
this case. 



G. 

43 Craven street, Strand, Jiili/ 13, 1S38. 

Dear Sir : With reference to the gun, a few pieces of China, and a 
few other articles of a miscellaneous nature, whicli are mentioned in the 
schedule of property formerly belonging to Mr. Smithson, (of which sched- 
ule we furnished to you a copy,) and which articles do not now appear 
to be amongst the property lately under the charge of Messrs. Deacon, 
we beg to state that the schedule in question was a schedule prepared at 
Ihe time of Mr. Smithson's death, now several years back, and that we 
have no doubt that the articles (whicli appear to have been such as 
would be used personally by Mr. Smithson) were handed to Mr. Hun- 
gerford, who, indeed, had he thought fit to apply for them, would, under 
the direction of the court, have obtained possession of all the property 
lodged with Messrs. Deacon, and wiiich is now handed over to you as 
representaiive of the United States. 

We are, dear sir, your very obedient servants, 

CLARKE, FYNMORE, & FLADGATE. 

Richard Rush, Esq. 



Boc. ISO. 10. 65 

Department of State, 

IVashinglon, September 24, iS3S. 
Sir : I am directed to transmit to you, for settlement, the enclosed ac- 
count of Mr. Richard Rush, and a letter from him (No. 36) accompanying 
It. The balance which may be found due to Mr. Rush he wishes to have 
remitted to him. The compensation and allowance for expenses are to 
be up to the period charged in the account, (the 20th instant.) 

It is presumed that the amount repaid to Mr. Rush by the solicitors hi 
London, mentioned in his letter, (£116 2s. 2d. sterling,) which was paid 
mto the Treasury, together with the avails of the Smithsonian legacy, will 
be brought to the credit of the appropriation from which it was originally 
taken, and thus form a fund from which the balance due to Mr. Rush can 
be paid. The papers explanatory of this circumstance have been trans- 
mitted, together with the account of the legacy, to the Treasury Depart- 
ment. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

EDWARD STUBBS, .%€??7, 
Stephen Pleasonton, Esq., 

Fifth, .duditor. 



Treasury Department, 

December 3, 1S3S. 

Sir : 1 have the honor to report to you that, under the act of Congress 
approved 1st July, 1S36, in relation to the legacy bequeathed to the United 
States by James Smithson, the sum of -^508,3 18 46 has been received, 
and paid into the Treasury of the United States. 

In compliance with the provisions of the sixth section of the act of Con- 
gress for the support of the Military Academy of the United States, and 
for other purposes, approved 7th July, 1838, the sum of S499,500 has 
been expended in the purchase of five hundred bonds of the State of Ar- 
kansas, for one thousand dollars each, bearing six per cent, interest, paya- 
ble semi-annually, on the first days of January and July in each year, 
from the fourth day of September last, (the period of their purchase.) 
The further sum of ^8,270 67 has been applied to the purchase of eight, 
bonds of the State of Michigan, bearing six per cent, interest, payable 
semi-annually hereafter, on the first Mondays in January and July, from 
the 1st of May last. The interest on all these bonds is payable at the 
city of New York. 

There is still left in the Treasury the sum of vS547 79 which has not 
yet been invested, but will be as soon as a favorable opportunity offers. 

The amount received in London by the agent of the United States, un- 
der the decree of the court of chancery, of England, was the gross sum 
of £106,490 lis. 9d., mcluding the sum'of £1 16 2*. 2d. for costs refunded. 
This was reduced, by the payment of commissions, insurances, &c., to the ' 
sum of £104,960 Ss'. 9d., which was brought into the United States in 
gold, and produced at the Mint the sum of ^508,318 46, before mentioned. 

This Department, having doubts as to what constituted the amount of 
the Smithsonian fund, consulted the Attorney General, and he has given 
his opinion (hereto annexed, A) that the proper construction to be given 

5 



66 Boc. No. 10. 

to the legislation of Congress on this subject requires that the gross aniouiU 
of the payment made to tlie agent of the United States, after deducting 
the costs refunded, as before stated, sliall constitute tiie fund, " and all ex- 
penses, of whatever kind or nature, should be paid out of the appro- 
priation made by Congress." That appropriation, however, not being 
sniiicient, an estimate will accordingly be submitted to tlie House of Rep- 
resentatives, to enable the Department to comply with the acts of Con- 
gress referred to, in accordance with the construction thus given to them 
by the Attorney General. 

The estimate to be submitted is for ^10,000. Of this, the sum of 
Si 28 24 will be required to make good a deficiency in the former appro- 
priation. The sum of §0,848 12 will be required to be added to the fund, 
on the principles laid down by the Attorney General. This sum is esti-' 
mated on the same ratio as upon the amount produced in the United 
States on tlie remittance which has been received. The balance, §3,023 64, 
will be required to pay the freight, &c., of the remittance, amounting to 
§2,235 63, and such expenses as may be incurred in disposing of the per- 
sonal effects of Mr. Smithson, which have been brought to the United 
States; for the sale of which I would suggest diat provision should be 
made by Congress. 

This report is submitted to yi)U, in eonq^liance with the resolution of the 
House of Representatives, which you referred to this Department for the 
necessary information that its archives would furnish in relation to the 
call thus made on you. 

Respectfully submitted : 

LEVI WOODBURY, 
Secretary uf the Treasury. 

To the President uf the United States. 



A. 

A'l'TORNEY General's Office, 

November 16, 1838. 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the lltli 
of October last, rccpiesting my opinion tq)on various points hi relation to 
the Smithsonian legacy. A separate answer to each of your inquiries is 
deemed unnecessary, as the opinion I entertain, and am abotit to express 
in general terms, will be found to cover most of them. 

James Smithson, of London, on the 23d of October, 1826, executed his 
last will and testament, by which, upon the liappening of certain contin- 
gencies, he bequeathed to the United States of America all his property, 
to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, 
an establishment for the increase and dif]\ision of knowledge among hien. 
The Congress of the United States, by an act passed 1st of July, 1836, 
accepted the bc(iuesi, and directed the President to appoint an agent to 
assert and prosecute the claim, and by said act pledged the faith of the 
United Slates to apply the moneys and other funds which might be 
received to carry into ellecl the provisions of said will : and, by the 
fourth section of said act, it is provided, •' that to the end that the claim 
to said bequest may be prosecuted with effect, and the necessary expenses 



J)oc. No. 10. 67 

111 pioyecutiiig the same be defrayed, the President of Uie United States 
be, and he is liereby, authorized to apply to that purpose any sum not 
exceeding S 10,000," &c. 

From these provisions it appears to me that Congress intended that 
there should be no diminution of the funds bequeathed for the purpose 
specified in said will, but that the whole, whatever they might amount to, 
should be applied to carry into eifect the intention of the testator ; and 
when the object of the bequest is considered, it cannot be supposed that 
Congress would act in any other than a liberal spirit. 

My opinion, therefore, is, that the amount of the whole money and 
other funds received by the agent of the United States, under the act of 
July 1st, 1S36, without reduction, constitute the Smithsonian fund, for 
the purposes specified in said Smithson's will; and that the whole ex- 
penses of prosecuting said claim, receiving, and transporting the same to 
this country, includhig any additional expenses which may have been 
incurred here, ought to be defrayed out of the appropriation made by 
Congress. 

It appears that cash and stocks, which, when converted into money, 
amounted to £106,490 ll5. 9d., were decreed to the United States, as the 
amount of the legacy and bequest in said will. Tliis sum, after deduct- 
ing £\Hy 2s.2d., the amount of costs refunded, is the amount which 
should be paid to tlie Treasurer of the United States, to be kept and 
disposed of according to the provisions of the act of July 1, 1836, and 
the sixth section of the act of July 7, 1838 ; and all expenses, of what- 
ever kind or nature, should be paid out of the appropriation made by 
Congress. 

In relation to the disposition of the other personal effects of Mr. Smith- 
£!on, which have been transferred to this country by the agent of the 
United States, my opinion is, that Congress should direct the disposition 
of them. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

FELIX GRUNDY. 

Hon. Levi Wooubury, 

Secretary vf the Treasury. 



25th Congress, Doc. No. 11. Ho. of Reps. 

M Session. Executive. 



BEQUEST OF Jx\MES SMITHSON. 

- MESSAGE 

FROM TUK 

PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED SIATEIS. 

Upon the subject of the bequest of James Smithson to the United States. 



^ ^^ 



December 10, 1838. 

Read, and referred to a select comniittee. 



Washington, December C, 1838. 

To the House of Representatives of the United States : 

The act of the 1st July, 1836, to enable the Executive to asset t and 
prosecute with effect the claim of the United States to the legacy be- 
queathed to them by James Smithson, late of London, having leceived 
its entire execution, and the amount recovered and paid into the Treas- 
ury having, agreeably to an act of the last session, been invested in 
State stocks, 1 deem it proper to invite the attention of Congress to the 
oblij;ation now devolving upon the United States to fulfil the object of 
the bequest. In order to obtain such information as might serve to 
facilitate its attainment, the Secretary of State was directed, in July last, 
to apply to persons versed in science, and familiar with the subject of 
public education, for their views as to the mode of disposing of the fund 
best calculated to meet the intentions of the testator, and prove most 
beneficial to mankind. Copies of (he circular letter wiitten in compli- 
ance with these directions, and of the answers to it received at the 
Department of State, are herewith communicated, for the consideration 
of Congress. 

M. VAN BUREN. 



Department of State, 

December 6, 1838. 

The Secretary of State has ihe honor to report to the President copies 
of the circular letter v.ritten by his directions, in relation to the mode of 
carrying into effect the provisions of the Smithsonian bequest, and of the 
answers to it received at the Department of State. 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

To the President. 



2 Doc. ISo. 11. 

Department of State, 

Washington, July 19, 1838. 
Hon. John Quincy Adams : 

Sir : By the will of James Sinithson, late of London, deceased, proper- 
ty to a considerable amount was bequeathed to the United States, for the 
puipose, as expressed in the language of the will, of " founding at 
Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establish- 
ment ibr the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

The United States having, under the authority of an act of Congress, 
approved the 1st of July, 1836, accepted the legacy, pledged their faith 
for the performance of the trust, in such manner as Congress may here- 
after direct, and recovered the proceeds of the bequest, to the amount of 
about one hundred thousand pounds sterling, the President is anxious, 
in presenting the subject to Congress for their consideration and action 
upon it, to aid his judgment by consulting the views of persons versed 
in science and in matters relating to public education, as to the mode of 
applying the proceeds of the bequest, which shall be likely at once to 
meet the wishes of the testator, and prove most advantageous to man- 
kind. 

The President will be pleased to have, if agreeable to you to give it, 
the result of your reflections on the subject, communicated through this 
Department, at as early a day as convenient. 

1 am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 
Same letter addressed to — 

Thomas Cooper, South Carolina. 

KicHARD Rush, Philadelphia. 

Professor Francis Wayland, Providence, Rhode Island. 

Albert Gallatin, New York. 

Rev. Stephen Olin, Boydton, Virginia. 

Philip Lindsley, Nashville, 'i'ennessee. 

Professor Davis, Charlottesville, N'irginia. 



QciNCY, October 8, 1838. 

Sir : I duly received yout letter, dated in July last, expressing the de- 
sire of the President of the United States to consult the views of per- 
sons versed in science and in matters relating to public education, as to 
the modes of applying the proceeds of the Smithsonian bequest, to meet 
the wishes of the testator, and which may prove most advantageous to 
mankind, with a view to present to Congress the subject, for their con- 
sideration, and action upon it. 

Having been the chairman of the committee of the House of Repre- 
sentatives, and reporter of the bill which became the act of July 1, 1836, 
relating to this bequest, in which act the faith of the United States is 
pledged for the application of the funds, placed by the founder of this 
institution at their disposal, to the promotion of the great object of his 
munificence, Ike increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. I 
have waited with anxious expectation the consummation of the first re- 
quisite for the accomplishment of the purpose, the recovery of the fund 
itself, aware that, until that should be effected, all speculation upon the 



Doc. No. 11. 3 

most suitable appropriation of the proceeds would be premature. It is 
with the warmest satisfaction that 1 have learnt ihe successful attainmenE 
of this preliminary end. 

When, at the last session of Congress, provision was made, by the sixth 
section of an act making appropriations for the West Point Academy 
for the temporary investment of the Smithsonian bequest, 1 regretted^ 
first, that this provision was made not in a separate bill, but as an append- 
age to one with which it had no proper connexion ; secondly, that the 
investment should be directed in stocks of States ; and, thirdly, that it 
should give to the Secretary of the Treasury a discretionary power to 
invest the fund, at a yearly interest of five per cent., at the very time 
when the Government itself of the United States was issuing Treasury 
notes at the rate of six per cent. Whatever may have been the occa- 
sion or the design of these arrangements, it was impossible to evade the 
remarks, that here was a deduction of one per cent, a year from the free 
gift of a noble-minded foreigner, for the most exalted of purposes, to 
bestow it, at the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, upon some 
favorite State. This did not appear to me to be an appiopriation of the 
fund to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, nor did it 
lead me to augur very well of the sequel. 

This, however, was but a tempoiary investment of the fund, which, I 
was willing to hope, would under no consideration be made permanent. 
In the report of the committee to the House of Representatives, accom- 
panying the bill which authorized the President to take the necessary 
measures for recovering the fund, I had set forth, in very explicit language, 
my sense of the duties which devolved upon the Government of the 
United States by their acceptance, in behalf of the nation, of this be- 
quest ; and, with the same views, 1 introduced into the bill a pledge of 
the faith of the United States, that the fund should be applied to the 
generous purpose of the testator. 

Before leaving Washington last July, I took the liberty of calling upon 
the President, and of expressing to him my earnest hope that, in the in- 
terval before the next session of Congress, he would be prepared with 
some plan for the permanent safe keeping and security, unimpaired, of 
the fund itself, by an investment which would yield a certain income as 
large as the ordinary interest of the country, and for appropriating thai 
income to the object of the testator — the increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men. 

I was kindly received by the President, who assured me of his readi- 
ness to take into consideration any suggestions which I might be disposed 
to make on the subject, or those of any other person whom I might rec- 
ommend. 

Thus encouraged, I gave him freely the views which I entertained 
with regard to fixing the permanency of the fund, unimpaired, and to 
suitable objects of application for its annual income. The opinions 
which I gave were general, and of course not matured. Further reflec- 
tion siace that time has but slightly modified them, and I have not since 
had the opportunity of consulting with any person in my own judgment 
qualified to give counsel, at once judicious and perfectly disinterested ^ 
for the disposal of the fund. 

The provision made at the last session of Congress was made merely 
for an investment for a few months, that the fund should, after the arri- 



4 Boc. No. 11. 

val of tho money in this country, not remain unoccupied, even until the 
next session o( Congress. The object now first deserving attention will 
be to secure the permanency of the fund entire ; for which purpose, I 
must indulge the hope that it will not be intrusted to any bank, nor 
loaned upon any pledge of State stocks. 

I should gieatly prefer that it should be disposed of as was the fund 
of one hundred thousand dollars which had been held by the President 
of the United States, in trust for an annuity of six thousand dollais, 
payable to the Seneca Indians. By the act of February 19, 1831, the 
whole fund was placed to the ciedit of the Department of War, and the 
duty of making the annual payment to the Seneca tribe was assigned 
to the Secretary. In the present case, the whole fund might pass to the 
credit of the Treasury of the United States, and the annual payment 
be diiected to be made by the Secretary of the Treasury. The fund of 
course to be redeemable at the discretion of Congress, and otherwise 
invested for the objects of the institution. 

This would give an annual appropriation of 30,000 dollars, and, to 
keep \he fund permanently unimpaired, the annual appropriation should 
be ccuilii'.ed to that sum. 

I think that no i)art of the money should be applied to the endowment 
of any school, college, university, or ecclesiastical establishment ; to 
no institution for the education of youth, for that is a sacred obligation, 
binding upon the people of this Union themselves, at their own expense 
and charge, and tor \Nhich it would be unworthy of them to accept an 
eleemosynary donation from any foreigner whomsoever. Nor do 1 be- 
lieve it to have been strictly within the intention of the testator. For 
ihe immediate object of the education of youth is not the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge among men, but the instruction of children in 
ihat which is already known. Its result is doubtless to diffuse, and 
may be to increase, knowledge among men ; and so is apprenticeship to 
trades, and so is the tillage of the ground, and so was to the ancient 
shepherds of Egy})t and Chaldea the nightly keeping of their flocks, for 
it enabled them, by the habitual observation of the stars, to trace their 
courses to some of the sublimest discoveries of astronomy. 

Nor could the application of the fund to any ecclesiastical or religious 
Establishment be a proper fulfilment of the testator's intention. The 
people of the United States have also religious duties to perform, for the 
charge and discharge of which they should not consent to be tributary, 
even in gratitude, to the bounty of any foreigner. The preaching of the 
gospel, like the education of youth, promotes the increase and diffusion 
of knowledge ; but the worship of God, and the fulfilment of moral 
duties to man, the special object of religious institutions, do not so much 
import the increase of knowledge as the right use of what is known. 

I suggested to the President that annual courses of lectures on the 
principal sciences, physical and mathematical, moral, political, and liter- 
ary, to be delivered not by permanent professors, but by persons annu- 
ally appointed, with a liberal compensation for each course, were among 
the means well adapted to the end of increasing and diffusing knowledge 
among men. 

But the great object of my solicitude would be to guard against the 
canker of almost all charitable foundations — ^^jobbing for parasites, and 
3ops for hungry incapacity. For the econonaicai management of the fund, 



Doc. No. 11. 5 

and the periodical application of it to appropriate expenditures, it should 
be invested in a board of trustees, to consist partly of members of both 
Houses of Congress, with the Secretaries of the Departments, the At- 
torney General, the mayor of the city of Washington, and one or more 
inhabitants of the District of Columbia, to be incorporated as trustee;* 
of the Smithsonian fund, with a secretary and treasurer in one person^ 
and to be the only salaried person of the board ; to be appointed for 
four years, and be capable of reappointment, but lemovable for ade- 
quate cause by a majority of the board. Into details it is unnecessary 
to enter. 

The first object of appropriation, however, in my judgment, should be 
the erection of an astronomical observatory, for all the purposes of the 
Greenwich Observatory, in England, and the Bureau des Longitudes^ in 
France. This alone would absorb the annual income of the fund for 
seven years, and will form the subject of another letter. 

I an), with great respect, sir, your very obedient seivant, 

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. 

John Forsyth, Esq., 

Secretary of State of the United States, Washington. 



QuiNCY, October II, 1838. 

Sir : I have reserved for a separate letter what I proposed to say iis 
recommending the erection and establishment of an astronomical obser- 
vatory at Washington, as one and the first application of the annual in- 
come from the Smithsonian bequest, because of all that I have to say f 
deem.it by far the most important, and because having for many years 
believed that the national character of our country demanded of us the 
establishment of such an institution, as a debt of honor to the cause of 
science and to the world of civilized man. I have hailed with cheering 
hope this opportunity of removing the greatest obstacle which has hith- 
erto disappointed the earnest wishes that I have entertained of witness- 
ing, before my own departure for another world, now near at hand, the 
disappearance of a stain upon our good name, in the neglect to provide 
the means of increasing and diffusing knowledge among men, by a sys- 
tematic and scientific continued series of observations on the phenomena 
of the numberless worlds suspended over our heads — the sublimest of 
the physical sciences, and that in which the field of future discovery h 
as unbounded as the universe itself. I allude to the continued and ne- 
cessary expense of such an establishment. 

In my former letter I proposed that to preserve entire and unimpaired 
the Smithsonian fund, as the piincipal of a perpetual annuity, the annual 
appropriations from its proceeds should be strictly confined to its annual 
income. That, assuming the amount of the fund to be five hundred 
thousand dollars, it should be so invested as to secure a permanent yearly 
income of thirty thousand ; and that it should be committed to an incorpo- 
rated board of trustees, with a secretary and treasurer, the only persoE 
of the board to receive a pecuniary compensation from the fund. * 

On the 18th of March, 1826, Mr. C. F. xMercer, chairman of a select 
committee of the House of Representatives of the United States, report- 
ed to that House a bill for the erection of a national observatory at the 



6 Doc. No. 11. 

city of Washington, together with sundry documents containing estimates 
of the cost of erecting the buildings necessary for such an establishment, 
for the instruments and books which it would require, and for the com- 
pensation of a principal astronomer, two assistants, and two attendants. 
These estimates of expense were, however, prepared upon the principle 
of providing the establishment at the smallest possible expense — to which 
end it was proposed that it should be attached to the Engineer's office, 
in the Department of War, and that the mathematical and astronomical 
instruments already belonging to that Department should be transferred 
to the use of the observatory. All this must of course be otherwise ar- 
ranged, if the President and Congress should approve the proposal of es- 
tablishing the observatory on the Smithsonian foundation. But that doc- 
ument contains much valuable information, which may be made availa- 
ble whenever an observatory shall be erected. It is No. 124, House 
documents of the first session of the 19th Congress. 

In the estimate of expenses at that time, by the Chief Engineer, he 
assigned for the necessary buildings only 14,500 dollars. But as it is 
desirable that the principal building, the observatory itself, should be, for 
the purposes of observation, unsurpassed by any other edifice constructed 
for the same purposes, I would devote one year's interest from the fund 
to the construction of the buildings; a second and third, to constitute a 
fund from the income of which the salaries of the astronomer, his as- 
sistants and attendants, should be paid ; a fourth and fifth, for the neces- 
sary instruments and books ; a sixth and seventh, for a fund from the in- 
come of which the expense should be defrayed of publishing the ephe- 
meris of obnervalions, and a yearly nautical almanac. These appropria- 
tions may be so distributed as to apply a part of the appropriation of each 
year to each of those necessary expenditures ; but for an establishment 
so complete as may do honor in all time alike to the testator and his 
trustees, the United States of America, I cannot reduce my estimate of 
the necessary expense below two hundred thousand dollars. 

My principles for this disposal of the funds are these : 

1st. That the most complete establishment of an astronomical obser- 
vatory in the world should be founded by the United States of America ; 
the whole expense of which, both its first cost and its perpetual mainte- 
nance, should be amply provided for, without costing one dollar either 
to the people or to the principal sum of the Smithsonian bequest. 

2d. That by providing from the income alone of the fund, a supple- 
mentary fund, from the interest of which all the salaries shall be paid, 
and all the annual expenses of publication shall be defrayed, the fund 
itself would, instead of being impaired, accumulate with the lapse of 
years. I do most fervently wish that this principle might be made the 
fundamental law, now and hereafter, so far as may be practicable, of all 
the appropriations of the Smithsonian bequest. 

3d. That, by the establishment of an observatory upon the largest and 
the most liberal scale, and providing for the publication of a yearly nau- 
tical almanac, knowledge will be diffused among men, the reputation of 
our country will rise to honor and reverence among the civilized nations 
of th» earth, and our navigators and mariners on every ocean be no lon- 
ger dependent on English or French observers or calculators, for the 
tables indispensable to conduct their path upon the deep. 

In the document to which I have above referred, there is a letter from 



i 



Doc. No. 11. '* 

Mr de Wallenstein, then attached. to the Russian legation in this coun- 
try • a report from Major Kearney, of the topographical engineers; and 
extracts from a memoir of Mr. Francis Baily, respecting a new method 
of determining the longitude ; all of which contain precious information, 
both of facts and of encouragement to the application of a strenuous and 
persevering eflfort, on the part of the Government of the United States, to 
contribute their effective aid, by this establishment, to the progress of 
physical and mathematical science. When the opportunity lor this is 
afforded by the munificence of a foreigner, without needing the taxation 
of a dollar upon the people, I cannot forego the hope that this opportu- 
nity will not be lost, believing that, of all the physical sciences, there is 
none for the cultivation of which brighter rewards of future discovery 
are reserved for the ingenuity and industry of man, than practical as- 

tronomy. . , , . • » 

There is appended to the same Congressional document a memorial 
to Congress, from William Allen, president of Bowdoin College, and 
sundry other distinguished citizens of the State of Maine, praying for the 
establishment, at the charge of the nation, of an astronomical observa- 
tory in the town of Brunswick, in that State; and a memorial of Mr. 
Hassler, recommending two observatories— one in Maine and one in 
Louisiana. The memorial from Maine urges with great force and ele- 
gance some of the general considerations pointing to the usefulness and 
importance of an astronomical observatory in the western hemisphere. 
But it is doubtful, at least, whether any application of the Smithsonian 
bequest can, in fulfilment of the testator's will, be located otherwise than 
in the city of Washington ; and if hereafter Congress should ever oe dis- 
posed lo appropriate any portion of the national funds to these elevated 
purposes, observatories may be erected in Maine, or Louisiana, or both, 
which may be auxiliary to tiie labors of the Smithsonian institution at 
Washington, without in any manner interfering with its pursuits. 

If the President should approve and give the weight of his recommend- 
ations to those suggestions, I have no doubt they will receive tne sanc- 
tion of Congress at their next session. As 1 propose the appropriation ior 
seven successive years of all the income from the fund to this special object, 
there will be ample time for considering the best manner of appropria- 
ting the same income afterwards to permanent establishments for tncreas- 
ins and diffusing knowledge among men. Nothing could be more easy 
than to dispose of a fund ten times as large, without encroaching upon 
the proper sphere of any school, college, university, or academy. JNot 
so easy will it be secure, as from a rattlesnake's fang, the fund and its in- 
come, forever, from being wasted and dilapidated in bounties to teed the 
hunger or fatten the leaden idleness of mountebank projectors, and shal- 
low and worthless pretenders to science. r i i 

Since I began this letter, I have conferred with Mr. Bancroft, the col- 
lector of the customs at Boston, concerning its object, who has promised 
to communicate his views of the subject to the President. 1 may, per- 
haps, after consultation with others, again address you m relation to it 
before my departure for Washington. 

J a,„, very respectfully, sir, your "bedient servant,^^^ ^^^.^^^ 

John Forsyth, Esq., 
Secretary of State of the United States, Washington. 



8 Doc. No. 11. 

- Providen'ce, October 2, 1838. 

Sir : In reply to your communication dated July last, requesting my 
views respecting the Snjithsonian Institute, I beg leave to state as fol- 
lows : 

1. It is, I suppose, to be taken for granted, that this institution is in- 
tended for the benefit not of any particular section of the United States, 
but for the benefit of the whole country; and, also, that no expense, 
which may be necessary in order to accomplish its object will be spared. 

2. I think it also evident, that there is no need, in this country, of 
what may be properly termed collegiate education ; that is, of that edu- 
cation which may be given between the ages of fourteen or sixteen, and 
eighteen or twenty. All the oki States, and many of the new ones, 
have as many institutions of this kind as their circumstances require. 
And, besides', since persons of the ages specified are too young to be, 
for a long period, absent from home, it is probably better that a large 
number of such institutions should be established within convenient dis- 
tances of each other. The age of the pupils in these institutions would 
also render it desirable that very large numbers be not associated to- 
gether. 

3. It is probable that professional schools — that is, schools for divinity, 
law, and medicine — will be established in every section of our country. 
Divinity must be left to the different Christian sects ; law will probably 
be taught in the State, or at least the district, in which it is to be prac- 
tised. The same will, 1 think, be true of medicine. 

4. If the above views be correct, it will, I think, follow, that the prop- 
er place to be occupied by such an institution would be the space be- 
tween the close of a collegiate education and a professional school. Its 
object would be to carry forward a classical and philosophical education 
beyond the point at which a college now leaves it, and to give instruc- 
tion in the broad and philosophical principles of a professional education. 

The demand for such instruction now exists very extensively. A 
very considerable portion of our best schools now graduate as early as 
their nineteenth, twentieth, or twenty-first year. If they are sulficiently 
wealthy, they prefer to wait a year before studying their profession. 
Some travel, some read, some remain as resident graduates, and many 
more teach school for a year or two, for the purpose of reviewing their 
studies. These would gladly resort to an institution in which their time 
might be profitably employed. The rapidly increasing wealth of our 
country will very greatly increase the number of such students. 

The advantages which would result from such an institution are vari- 
ous. It would raise up and send abroad in the several professions a new 
grade of scholars, and thus gieatly add to the intellectual power of the 
nation. But, specially, it would furnish teachers, professors, and officers, 
of every grade, for all our other institutions. As the standard of education 
was thus laiscd in the colleges, students v>ouId enter the national uni- 
versity better prepared. Tins would require greater effoit on the part 
of its professors, and thus both wowld reciprocally stimulate each other. 

The branches which should be taught there, I suppose, should be the 
same as \\\ our colleges, only tar more generously taught — that is, taught 
to men, and not to boys — and the philosophical principles of law and med- 
icine. This would embrace lectures on Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and the 



Doc No. 11. 9 

oriental languages ; all the modern languages of any use to the scholar, 
with their literature ; mathematics, carried as far as any one would desire 
to pursue them; astronomy ; engineering, civil and military ; the art of 
war, beginning where it is left at West Point; chemistry ; geology ; mi- 
ning ; rhetoric and poetiy ; political economy ; intellectual philosophy ; 
physiology, vegetable and animal ; anatomy, human and comparative ; 
history ; the laws of nations ; and the general principles of law, the con- 
stitution of the United States, &c. 

5. Supposing such an institution to be established, something may be 
added respecting the mode of its constitution and organization. 

I suppose, then, that an institution of this kind is a sort of copartnership 
between the instructors and the public. The public furnish means of edu- 
cation, as building, libraries, apparatus, and a portion of the salary. The 
professors do the labor, and provide for the remaining part of their in- 
come by their own exertions. Hence there arises naturally a division 
■ of the powers and duties of the parties. To the corporation, or gov- 
ernors, or trustees, or by what name they may be called, would belong 
the management of the iiscal concerns of the institution, and the control 
of that portion of its affairs which depended specially upon its relation 
with the public donation. The government of the institution, the con- 
ferring of degrees, the appointment of professors, would be performed 
jointly by fhe officers of instruction and the corporation. 

In the English universities, the governmentof the institution is vested 
in a general meeting of the former graduates. This forms a literary 
public, which exercises ultimate jurisdiction in most matters which re- 
quire deliberation. How far such an institution might be constructed 
upon this principle, may be faiily a question. 

6. If the above-mentioned views should be adopted, it will be per- 
ceived that no funds will be required for dormitories. The young meri 
will provide for themselves board and lodging wherever they please, 
and the professors will be responsible for nothing more than their educa- 

on. It is supposed that they are old enough to govern themselves. 

Hence the funds may be devoted to the following purposes: 

1st. A part would be appropriated to the creation of a library, cabinets, 
and lor the furnishing of all the apparatus necessary to the instructors. 

2d. A part to the erection of buildings for the above purposes, together 
with buildings for professors' houses. 

3d. A fund would be established for the endowment of professorships, 
giving to each so much as may form a portion, say one third or one half, 
of his living, and the rest to be provided for by the sale of the tickets to 
his courses. 

7. If the institution is governed by a board, this board should be ap- 
pointed by tiie President and Senate, or by the President alone, and 

,they should hold their office for no longer a period than six years, one 
third of them retiring, unless reappointed, every two years. 

8. Graduates of the university should be allowed to teach classes and 
receive payment for tickets, upon any of the subjects on which instruc- 
tion is given in the regular course. This will prove a strong stimulant 
to the regular professors, and will train men up for teachers. 

Degrees should never be conferred as a matter of course, but only 
after a strict and public examination. They should never be conferred 
either in course, or causa hoiioris, unless by the recommendation of the 
faculty. 



10 Doc. No. 11. 

I have thus very briefly, but as far as my avocations would allow, 
thrown together a few hints upon the subject to which you have directed 
my attention. That I should go into detail, I presume, was not expected. 
Whatever may be the plan adopted, I presume it will not be carried into 
effect until an extensive observation of the best universities in Europe 
has furnished the Government with all the knowledge which the present 
condition of the science of education can afford. 

I have the honor to be, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant, 

F. WAYLAND. 

Hon. J. Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Columbia, South Carolina, 

July 20, 1838. - 

Sir : With respect to the Smithson legacy, two courses only suggest 
themselves to my mind : one, annual premiums for the best treatises on 
given subjects, which we have not literary or scientific men enough to 
sapply or to enter into any thing like competition with the Bridgewater 
Treatises; and, therefore, we should only be disgraced by it ; and, there- 
fore, I cannot recommend this mode of application. Add to which, it 
would be very apt to degenerate into a political and party institution, in 
various ways. The other is an institution of the character of an university. 
I am well aware the power of erecting an university was twice refused 
to Congress, in the convention of 1787. But the objection may be gotten 
over by transferring the donation to the corporation of Georgetown, un- 
der such limitation as may be expedient and constitutional, and let an 
university be instituted by that corporation. This would be a sufficient 
approximation to Mr. Smithson's required locality, and would obviate the 
constitutional objection. 

Such an university ought not to be opened, except to graduates of 
other colleges. The studies migh^ be the higher algebraical calculus; 
the application of mathematics to practical mechanical knowledge of 
every description, and to astronomy, to chemistry, electricity, and gal- 
vanism ; the principles of botany and agriculture. No Latin or Greek ; 
no mere literature. Things, not words. 

Strict attendance ; strict and public examinations. I object to all belles- 
letters^ and philosophical literature, as calculated only to make men pleas- 
ant talkers. I object to medicine, which cannot be well taught in a lo- 
cality of less than 100,000 inhabitants. 

I object to law; for all that can be orally delivered can be more profit- 
ably and deliberately learnt by perusal. Ethics and politics are as yet 
unsettled branches of knowledge. 

Whether physiology and political economy ought to be rejected, re- 
quires more consideration than I can at this moment bestow. 1 want to 
see those studies cultivated, which, in their known tendencies and results, 
abridge human labor, and increase and multiply the comforts of exist- 
ence to the great mass of mankind. Public education should be useful, 
not ornamental. 

The course should not be less than 3 years, of 10 months each. The 
instruction afforded gratis; examinations for admission rigid. Such, in 



Doc. No. 11. II 

few words, are my notions on this subject, which I respectfully submit, 
sir, to your better judgment. 

Accept, I pray you, the assurances of my sincere and high considera- 
tion. 

THOMAS COOPER, M. D. 



Sydenham, near Philadelphia, 

November 6, 1838. 

Sir : Referring to your letter of July, the receipt of which I had the 
honor to acknowledge, and desiring now to meet the wishes it conveys, 
however sincerely distrustful I am of myself in attempting the task, I 
proceed to remark : that a university or college, in the ordinary sense, or 
any institution looking to primary education, or to the instruction of the 
young merely, does not strike me as the kind of institution contemplated 
by Mr. Smithson's will ; declaring it, in language simple, yet of the widest 
import, to be " for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men," 
and making the United States the trustee of his intentions, it seems to 
follow that it ought to be as comprehensive as possible in its objects and 
means, as it must necessarily be national in its government. In turning 
my thoughts to the subject, it is, therefore, only upon a basis the most com- 
prehensive, under all views, that 1 can think of any general plan for its 
organization. Hence it appears to me : 

1. That even oflBcers of the United States, abroad and at home, might 
be made subservient to some of the main objects of the institution — as 
their consuls, naval and military officers; and, I would add, their foreign 
ministers. 

Consuls, by their residence in foreign ports, have opportunities ef be- 
coming acquainted with the natural history and productions of the places 
where they reside, and learning other things useful to be known. This 
class of officers had instructions, at a former period of the Government, 
to send home seeds, plants, and other productions, beneficial to agricul- 
ture, manufactures, or any of the useful arts. But their efforts were frus- 
trated or impeded for want of a fund to defray incidental expenses, 
which, however small, constitutional scruples existed against providing. 
The Smithsonian fund might supply the means of renewing such instruc- 
tions, giving to them more scope as well as efficacy. 

Our naval officers, those especially in separate commands on foreign 
stations, must have opportunities of gaining knowledge in other spheres 
than those to be filled by their usual reports to the Navy Department; 
and the same may be said of officers of the army, in regard to the War 
Department. Many of the latter, by their stations at garrisons, or em- 
ployment otherwise in remote and unexplored parts of our country, have 
the means, as past instances testify, of collecting facts bearing upon its 
geology, its natural history in all branches, its antiquities, and the char- 
acter of its aboriginal races; the communication of which might advan- 
tageously fall in with the purposes of this institution, and be ultimately 
promulgated through its instrumentality. 

I propose to include, also, ministers plenipotentiary among the func- 
tionaries who might serve the institution, and, through it, the general 
public, on this occasion. By their power of commanding the best inter- 
course in the several communities to which they are sent, they may open 



12 Doc. No. 11. 

to themselves avenues to knowledge of all kinds ; the transmission of 
which to the institution, under executive instructions to that effect, might 
often prove of high value. It would not be expected from them but at 
convenient intervals, and never when interfering with. their primary du- 
ties. When an appropriate channel was opened for receiving communi- 
cations of this nature, they would become, it may be presumed, an agree- 
able appendage to the primary duties of our ministers, affording a resource 
for their leisure, with opportunities of a more enlarged usefulness to their 
country, and fame to themselves. Permanent missions were once ob- 
jected to by Mr. Jefferson, as not within the true theory of our foreign 
intercourse, which seems to countenance the more a proposal for connect- 
ing with them the honorable appendage suggested, since neither official 
dignity nor usefulness can ever be impaired, though both may be height- 
ened, by coassociation with knowledge in other fields. 

2. A building to be erected at Washington, with accommodations for 
the business of (he institution. Ground to be attached to it, sufficient 
for reproducing seeds and plants, with a view to diffusing through the 
country such as might be found to deserve it. The officers of the insti- 
tution to be a director, a secretary, a librarian, and a treasurer. Persons 
to be under them to take care of the building and grounds. The officers 
to be appointed by the President and Senate. The director to make an 
annual report to Congress on the state of the institution, and oftener if 
necessary. Its affairs to be subject to the visitation of the President, 
aided by a standing board, to consist of the chief officers of the Govern- 
ment, say, taking the example of a law already in the statute book in 
relation to the finances, the Vice President, the Chief .Justice, the Sec- 
retaries of State and the Treasury, and the Attorney General. The 
institution to have its press, as the University of Oxford, or otherwise 
authority to employ one for printing communications sent to it, and the 
lectures to be presently mentioned. Nothing to be printed but under 
the sanction of the director and standing board of visiters. To this and 
other ends, for the good government of the institution, the standing board 
to have the right to call in the assistance of three or more scientifrc or 
literary persons unconnected with it. The profits arising from all publi- 
cations to go in aid of the funds of the institution. Communications from 
learned societies, or from individuals eminent in science or letters, in 
whatever part of the world, to be received by the director, and taken 
charge of by the secretary. The director to be authorized to correspond 
"with any such societies or persons. A council to assemble once a month, 
to consist of the officers of the institution and the lecturers attached to 
it, before wiiich all communications to be laid. Order to be then taken 
upon them. Such as go upon the archives, with a view (o the question 
of publication, to be brought under the consideration of the standing 
board of visiters at the proper time, when that question will be decided. 
The director to preside at these councils, at the meetings of the standing 
board of visiters, and at all other meetings required by the business of 
the institution ; and the Secretary to keep the minutes. The standing 
board of visiters to hold stated meetings twice a year, and assemble on 
other occasions when they deem it necessary. At the commencement 
of the institution, the duties of librarian and treasurer to be united in the 
same person. 

3. Lectureships to be established, comprehending as many of the 



Doc. No. 11 13 

leading branches of physical and moral science as the funds of the instf- 
tution may be able to bear. Apparatus to be piovided for the branches 
requiring it. One of the lectureships to be dedicated to government and 
public law. When conflicting opinions on government are raging in the 
world, to have the democratic principle, as modified by our systems of 
representation, and the conjoint workings of the federative and national 
principle, illustrated in elementary disquisitions, apart from temporary 
topics and passions, is a desideratum which the Smithsonian Institution 
might supply. Such productions seem due to mankind, as to ourselves, 
imperfectly described as our institutions have been, through adverse feel- 
ings in (he wiiters ; it having generally fared with us as the cause of Roman 
liberty fared in the hands of royal historians. Rarely can foreigners, 
however enlightened, be equal to the task of justly analyzing the com- 
plicated movements, unintelligible to hasly observers, yet full of harmo- 
ny, that maintain (he order, prosperity, and freedom, of this great con- 
federated republic, under guards combining the efficacy of popular 
sovereignty with its safety. Authentic explanations of them, all issuing 
from this institution, at an age when steam is quickening all intercourse 
throughout the world, would give new motives for listening to the doc- 
trines and results of the democratic principle in this hemisphere. So 
expounded, it would go before the world without disparagement, and be 
fairly judged by its results. Under public law, the tenets of America, 
now locked up in diplomacy, or otherwise hidden or overlooked in 
Europe, might come into useful publicity ; her proposals to Europe to 
abolish privateering, and prohibit public ships from capturing merchant 
vessels upon the ocean, thus forever stripping war of more than half its 
evils upon that element — a stride in civilization to transcend, whenever 
it maybe made, the West India abolition act; her resistance, single- 
handed, against the enforcement of British municipal law upon the 
ocean, as seen in the individual miseries and national violations involved 
in the feudal claim of impressment, and her desire, shown in other ways, 
for freeing the international code from barbarous relics, whereby this 
institution, working in its orbit of calm discussion, might become the ally 
of America towaids gaining for these great public benefactions, and 
others, the growth of our institutions, in our days, (so maligned for re- 
taining the domestic servitude bequeathed to them by our progenitors,) 
favor and acceptance among nations. The steady abhorrence expressed 
by this Government against em))loying savages in warfare between civ- 
ilized and Christian States, and its abortive negotiations to prevent it, 
would further illustrate the harmonizisig policy of America. Such are 
samples of the maxims that might claim elucidation from an institution 
reared under the sanction of this republic, and thence, by the principle 
of its existence, desirous of doing justice to them, examined in juxtapo- 
sition with those taught in the ancient and cloistered seminaries of the 
old world, and upheld by its Governments. 

The other lectureships, as the foregoing, might be made to yield, each 
in its proper field, contributions to '' the increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men." I am aware that voluntary lectureships have not 
always been found to succeed. But in the foundation of these, consid- 
ering the time and all concomitant circumstances, there seems reasonable 
ground for anticipating success. The plan would imply that the lectur- 
ers be also appointed by the President and Senate. It would imply that 



14 Doc. No. 11. 

their salaries be ample enough to command the best men, and admit of 
the exclusive devotion of their time to the studies and investigations of 
their posts. They might even be laid under the restriction of not en- 
gaging in other pursuits, as our laws interdict the revenue officers 
from trading. Genius being of all countries, and the intentions of the 
founder peculiarly expanded, the range of our own and other countries 
would be open for selecting the incumbents. The desire of fame, in- 
creased by the hope of their lectures being published, might be expect- 
ed to stimulate them to exertion ; and if incentives so high were want- 
ing, the tenure ot their appointments, where the Executive and public 
eye would be upon them, would act as a guard against slackness in their 
duties. Ifknowledge is power, power, directing knowledge, may make 
it efficacious. The place where the lectures were delivered would im- 
part to them interest and dignity. If delivered when Congress was in 
session, and not recurring too often, some of the members might be ex- 
pected occasionally to attend ; as a change from the turmoil of politics, 
and possibly a good influence on legislation itself, might grow out of these 
new intellectual elements gathering about its precincts. To the public 
functionaries of all sorts, to distinguished foreigners, and to visiters at 
Washington, as well as its resident inhabitants, the Smithsonian lectures 
might prove attractive. It will have been their lot, if established, to spring 
up when stupendous agents in nature, and new contrivances in art, are 
changing the state of the world, in peace and for war; when this coun- 
try is taking a conspicuous share in these magnificent innovations, which 
some of the lectures would doubtless treat of, and when the successful 
results of its popular institutions hitherto are among the causes at work 
in modifying the political and social condition of other nations. Can it 
be that, delivered under such circumstances, they would be devoid of in- 
terest ? Centring in the capital of the Union, to which the eyes of the 
States are apt to turn with a curiosity both natural and ambitious, may 
not these lectures do their part also, if recommended by ability, towards 
raising up among us new homage to mental accomplishments and re- 
nown, those memorials of a nation's glory, when others perish .'' 

Each lecturer, at the conclusion of his course, to deposite with the di- 
rector a copy of his lectures- These to be published, or not, as deter- 
mined by the board of visiters. Hence, if the audience in the lecture- 
rooms proved, after all, to be inconsiderable, the publication of the lec- 
tures, when of merit to authorize it, would be fulfilling the intentions of 
the founder, and the prospect of publication be sufficient to keep up the 
spirit of the lecturer. We have heard of the Bridgewater Treatises, in 
England, emanating from the provisions of a munificent will. Perhaps it 
might not be too sanguine to anticipate, in good time, from the Smithso- 
nian lectuies, disquisitions doing honor to their authors, and, let it be 
hoped, to theii- country, whilst diffusing knowledge among men every 
where. We have seen, also, the publications that issue from those recently 
formed associations that hold their annual meetings in Europe, and seem 
to have made science a fashion there, enrolling statesmen, and nobles, 
and kings, among its votaries. May not the Smithsonian Institution mark 
an occasion for our country to start in this rivalry of mind .? The race 
among nations is going on, of wealth, of power, and of science ; the two 
first extending as the last extends. An immense achievement, which 
the present year has finally witnessed, the crossing of the Atlantic by 



Doc. No. 11. . 15 

steam, is a revolution in human affairs. Distance, once an element in our 
safety, as in all our relations with the old world, and the basis on which 
rested essential maxims in our policy, has disappeared. Europe has sud- 
denly become neighbor to us, for good and for evil, involving consequen- 
ces that baffle all foresight. Our statesmen must wake up to the mighty 
change. There is no time to lose. They will have to ask themselves 
what are the parts of our policy to be accommodated to the change. Our 
men of science, feeling new excitem.ents from this approximation of the 
hemispheres, will naturally be on the alert, growing more emulous in 
their several fields. The continent that Columbus found was a desert, 
or overspread with barbarous people and institutions. The continent 
that steam has found teems with civilization, fresh, advancing, and una- 
voidably innovating upon the old world. The statesmen, the warriors, 
the active and enterprising men, the whole people of the two worlds, now 
almost confront each other. It is at such a point in the destinies of Amer- 
ica that the Smithsonian Institution comes into being. By their physical 
resources and power, the United States are well known. Their resour- 
ces of intellectual and moral strength have been more in the back 
ground ; but may not an auspicious development of them be aided by an 
institution like this, rising up in their capital simultaneously with this new 
condition of things, guarded, as it will be, by the annual watchfulness, 
fostered by the annual care, and improved, from time to time, by the 
superintending wisdom of Congress ? 

The usefulness of the institution would doubtless be increased, if young 
men could be regularly educated at it. But here imperious obstacles 
seem to interpose. I!" I only, in conclusion, touch this part of the plan, 
without dilating upon it, it is from a fear that the fund would not bear 
their maintenance, in connexion with what has seemed to me other indis- 
pensable objects. Perhaps a limited number who had passed the age of 
18, taken equally from the different States, say two from each, under the 
federative principle, might come to the institution, be formed into a class, 
and attend its lectures for a couple or three^ courses ; their expenses to 
be paid under such restrictions as the Government might prescribe, and 
the young men to undergo public examinations at the end of the term, 
prize medals being awarded by the board of visiters or a committee of 
Congress, to keep the tone of ambition high. But would the fund bear 
even this ? Again, I fear not. 

In the foregoing suggestions as to the nature of the institution, sent to 
you in compliance with the President's call, I have confined myself to a 
very general outline and a few reflections. The subject has many as- 
pects, and 1 have dealt only with some of them, and those partially. It 
is intiinsically one on which much diversity of opinion may be expected 
to prevail, and that hardly any discussions could exhaust. However 
honored by the President's call, and desirous of responding to it ade- 
quately, I have felt incompetent to the task of going into the arrange- 
ments in detail necessary to the complete organization of an institution, 
designed by its philanthropic founder to be so universal in its scope, so 
far-reaching in its benefits. It ought to have all the simplicity compati- 
ble with its ends; but these are momentous, since they may run, by their 
effects, into distant ages. It is like a new power coming into the repub- 
lic — its means the human mind ; its ends still the triumphs of the mind ; 
its fields of glory beneficent and saving — a power to give new force to 



16 Doc. No. 11. 

the moral elements of our institutions, helping to illustrate, strengthen, 
and adorn them. Such, in my humble conception, it is, or may be made. 
Even as to the brief outline I venture upon, for the plan of such an insti- 
tution, I must repeat how greatly I distiust myself, sketched, as it has 
been, without consultation with others, giving their thoughts to the same 
subject, who might have corrected, modifjed, and improved, my own. If 
any of these can be turned to the least profit in abler hands, or serve to 
start better ones in better minds, I shall be amply rewarded. 

I beg to add that this communication would have been sooner sent to 
you, but for interruptions incident to the first month or two after return- 
ing to my home after a two years' absence. 

With great respect, I have the honor to be your obedient servant, 

RICHARD RUSH. 



CoLi.EGE Hill, D. C, 

November 26, 1838. 

Sir : In an interview I had with you some time since, you desired me 
to express my views respecting the anticipated Smithsonian Institution. 
I will therefore attempt to do so, though conscious of my inability to do 
justice to a subject so important in its character and relations. U it be 
wisely organized, and supplied with a corps of distinguisiied piofessors 
in the various departments of learning, it will affect not only the highest 
interests of our country, but its influence will be felt in foreign lands. 
Let it go up in a character worthy of its liberal founder, let it be sustained 
with the zeal and liberality becoining the object and our own leputation, 
and it will add to our national points of union : in these we are not very 
rich, and, therefore, should be glad to multiply them, to bind together 
more firmly the elements of the American confederation. 'I'he object of 
the contemplated institution is "the cultivation and diffusion of knowledge 
among mankind." This object, I believe, is distinctly expressed in the 
will oT Mr. Smithson. In making his will, he probably had his eye 
upon those modern institutes and universities of Europe, which are de- 
signed, not to teach the first elements of science and letters, but to re- 
ceive graduates, and men looking forward to professional eminence, for the 
purpose of advancing them to the highest grades of learning, and thus 
to give them power to enlarge the boundaries of knowledge, by fresh 
discoveries and investigations. We may conclude, then, that he intended 
his bequest should be applied to the erection of an institution for liberal and 
profesiiional purposes, and for the promotion of original investigations — to 
carry scholars through a range of studies much above those of the ordi- 
nary collegiate course, i am iiappy to know that this is the opinion of 
John Quincy Adams, a gentleman whose judgment in the present case 
is entitled to all respect. 

Admitting that this is to be its object, it is natural to inquire, in the next 
place, how it should be organized, so as most fully to promote this design. 
In organizing it, respect should be had to the spirit of the present age," to 
the genius of our Government, and to our peculiar wants as a nation. It is 
of vital moment that it should receive such a shaping as will best correspond 
with all the particulars. Many of the institutions of learning in Europe, 
in rigidly adhering to systems of government and instruction settled for 
ages, altogether different from our own, do not send forth men fitted to 



Dot. No. n IT 

meet the exigencies of modern society. Though richly endouedj and 
supplied with teachers of great powers and attainments, they serve for 
little else than to show the strength of the current that is setting by them. 
We, at this day, and especially in this country, need men who are ac- 
quainted with something better than the learning of the ancient schools, 
men who have studied profoundly the relation of scientific principles to 
practical purposes, and who can teach their iellow-men how to apply thern 
in advancing the public welfare. 

The general superintendence of the institution maybe committed tea 
board of commissioners, appointed by Government, to hold their offices 
during good behaviour, and with power to perpetuate their existence. In 
(his way, the institution would not only be free from the evils of frequent 
changes and political agitations, but would secure to itself, in the highest 
degree, the benefits of personal obligation. These commissioners would 
feel a deep sense of their responsibility, and that their powers and per- 
manency in place were given to them that they might have the best op- 
portunity to make the institution what it ought to be — a distinguished honor 
to their country, and a blessing to the world. 

Let this board of commissioners procure tlic best men that can be 
found to fill the several professorships that may be instituted ; and, in or- 
der to secure the services of men of the first powers and attainments, to 
lecture and conduct investigations in their appropriate deoartments, let 
their several means to facilitate their studies be ample, and their stated 
salaries liberal ; and then its public course of lecturing will be most fully 
.'ittended, numbers being allured both by the fame of the professors and 
the lightness of the fees. It was in consequence of high salaries that the 
fhe University of Gottingen, in the 18th century, rose to the first emi- 
nence in Germany. 

As the funds aie not now, nor are they likely to be for some time to 
come, suflicient to support professorships in the whole circle of science, 
it will be necessary to make a selection. The temptation will be to un- 
dertake too much. A few chairs, well fdled and well sustained, would 
■effect more than a number far greater than there are adequate means to 
support. In deciding upon the branches of knowledge to be taught, I 
would select those that would make the institution as much Americams 
a regard for general science will allow. In addition to the ordinary 
professorships of law, of medicine, of ihe exact sciences, and physics, 
of classical literature, and of modern languages, &c., I would have 
one of the English literature, one of American history, one of Ameri- 
can constitutional law and jurisprudence, one of American institutions, 
one of civil engineering and architecture, one of the practical appli* 
cation of the exact sciences to the mechanic arts. 

You will perceive that I have said nothing about professorships in the 
tlepartment of metaphysics. I would rather leave the whole business of 
ethical and moral philosophy to be taught elsewhere, than to introduce it 
as a distinct course in a national institution of learning. 

Some of the above professorships are of a local and novel character ; 
but this, I trust, will not be urged as an objection against them. The 
achievement of our independence formed an epoch in the political 
world. Let, then, the institution of this, our first national university, 
fo"m an epoch in the republic of science. Much might be said in rec- 
'ommending the branches appropriate to our country. They are such 
2 



18 Doc. No, 11, 

as ought to be adopted, out of a regard to our reputation and to our present 
wants and futuie prospects. What have we done, as yet, to enrich 
and improve our own tongue ? Besides, when we consider that the 
English lan«;uage imbodies, perhaps, richer treasures of science and 
literature than any other, and when v.e consider that it is spoken by 
two of the most commercial, enterprising, and powerful nations upon the 
egi th — nations which are doing more than, any other tvvo that can be na- 
med, in forming colonies, and in diffusing knowledge and the light of Chris- 
tianity — how powerful is the motive to cultivate and carry it to the high- 
est state of refinement and power. 

With regard to buildings, it may he remarked that it would be wisest 
to erect no more than are necessary for the library, the apparatus, a 
cabinet of minerals, collection of Uiodels, specimens, curiosities, &e., 
for the accommodation of the professors, when lecturing or engaged in 
their investigations. The scholars, instead of eating in common, might be 
accommodated in private boarding-houses. If this course be pursued, 
the interest which has accrued and which will accrue on the bequest, be- 
fore the institution can be organized, will probably be sufficient to erect, 
all the necessary buildings, and leave a handsome sum to be expended 
upon a library, apparatus, &c-, so that the whole of the original dona- 
tion may be invested for a permanent fund. 

It will be of vital moment that the professors and students should be 
rich in the external means of knowledge — an extensive and \yell-chcsen 
library, instruments, apparatus, models^, specimens, &c. Especially would 
I recommend that there should be an astronomical observatory connect 
ed with the institution. The expense of this would not be very gre^,, 
and the Government are already in possession of many of the requisite 
instruments. By such means, a meridian may be established, not only 
for our own country, but for the western continent. To this all our na- 
tional surveys, our charts. Sic. may be referred. Astronomical observa- 
tions might'be made, for whicn our position and climate offer peculiar 
advantages. There is now no observatory worth naming in this part 
of the world. Let, then, the American Government now build one, and 
it will not only be an honor to the nation, but it will be a powerful reason 
for giving permanency to the present seat of Government. 

It may not be thought best to employ any artificial means for stimulants 
to rivalship, and to seek for literary honors. Congress will always have 
the right of visitation, and they can, if they please, direct the comriiittee 
whom they may appoint to attend the stated examinations of the various 
classes, to award medals, or some other mark of distinction, to those schol- 
ars who shall give the best proof of proficiency, or the ablest essays on ap- 
pointed subjects. But it should be remembered that the community at large 
constitute, in fact, the most efficient board of overseers, and that that insti* 
tution will be the most honored and frequented, which sends forth the best 
prepared and the most faithful agents to meet the wants of their country. 

I have the honor, sir, to be yours, with sentiments of great respecf 
and esteem, 

S. CHAPIN 

To Martin Van Buren, 

President of the United States. 



FIRST REPORT 



OF 



THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



TO THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS: 



GIVING 



A PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION, AND AN ACCOUNT OF THE OPERA- 
TIONS DURING THE YEAR. 



PRESENTED DECEMBER 8, 1847, 



WASHINGTON : 

RITCHIE & HEISS, PRINTERS. 
1S48. 



REPORT. 



Gextlement". a statement of the financial condition of tiie Smithsonian 
Institntion, and of the progress made in the erection of the building, hav- 
ing been presented to your board by the committees charged with the care 
of these objects, it becomes my duty, as Secretary of the institution, to give 
an account of what has been done relative to the development of the plan 
of organization, and of the steps which have been taken in the way of 
carrying it into operation. 

In accordance with my instructions, I consulted with men of eminence, 
in the different branches of literature and science, relative to the details of 
the plan of organization, and arranged the various suggestions offered, in 
the form of the accompanying programme. This, after having been sub- 
mitted to a number of persons in whose knowledge and judgment I have 
confidence, is now presented to the board, with the concurrence of the 
Committee on Organization, for consideration and provisional adoption, I 
regret that my engagements have been such as to render it impossible for 
me to call upon many persons whose counsel would have been valuable, 
but I hope hereafter to avail myself of their advice in behalf of the institu- 
tion. I also regret that I could not give the names of those whose sug- 
gestions have been adopted in the programme; the impossibility of ren- 
dering justice to all, has prevented my attempting this. Many of the sugges- 
tions have been offered by different persons, independently of each other; 
and, indeed, the general plan of the increase and diffusion of knowledge 
as adopted by the board, is such as would naturally arise in the mind of 
any person conversant with the history of physical science, and with the 
means usually employed for its extension and diffusion. 

The introduction to the programme contains a series of propositions, 
suggested by a critical examination of the will of Smithson, to serve as a 
guide in judging of the fitness of any proposed plan for carrying out the 
design of the testator. The first section of the programme gives the de- 
tails of the plan proposed for the increase and diffusion of knowledge by 
means of publication and original researches. The second section fur- 
nishes the details, so far as they can be made out at the present time, of 
the formation of a library, and a collection of objects of nature and art. 
These two plans combined ^ embrace the general propositions adopted by 
the Board of Regents at their last meetings as the basis of future operations. 
It is intended in the proposed plan to harmonize the two modes of increasing 



4 

and difFasing knowledge, and to give to the institution the widest influ- 
ence compatible with its limited income. That all the propositions will 
meet with general approval cannot be expected; and that this organization 
is the best that could be devised is neither asserted nor believed. To 
produce a 'priori a plan of organization which shall be found to succeed 
perfectly in practice, and require no amendment, would be difficult under 
the most favorable circumstances, and becomes almost impossible where 
conflicting opinions are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of 
the act establishing the institution are to be observed. It is not intended 
that the details of the organization, as given in the programme, should be 
permanently adopted without careful trial; they are rather presented as 
suggestions to be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into operation 
gradually and cautiously, with such changes, from time to time, as expe- 
rience may dictate. 

PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[Presented to the Board of Regents December 8, 1847.] 
INTRODUCTION. 

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a plan of 

organization. 

1 . Will op Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United States 
of America, '' to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian 
Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the 
United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator. 

3. The institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently sup- 
posed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and perpetuate 
his name. 

4. The objects of the institution are — ^Ist, to increase, and 2d, to diffuse 
knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of 
new truths; and ihe second to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, 
among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge; hence all branches are entided to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating and 
promoting the discovery of new truths, and can be most efficiently diffused 
among men by means of the press. 



8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be 
such as to enable the institution to produce results in the way of increas- 
ing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the existing 
institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provisionally, 
can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be abandoned, 
in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to make up for the loss of time occasioned by the delay 
of eight years in establishing the institution, a considerable portion of the 
interest which has accrued should be added to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the 
funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the construc- 
tion of the building; and not only should the first cost of the edifice be 
considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair, and of 
the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it. There 
should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by 
the plan of the organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be benefited 
by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure on local 
objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from the 
will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the act of 
Congress establishing the institution. These are a library, a museum, and 
a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to contain them. 

SECTION I. 

Plan of organizatio7i of the institution, in accordance with the foregoing 
deductions frotn the will of Smithson. 

To Increase Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering 
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re- 
searches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To Diffuse Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the different 
branches of knowledge; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general in- 
terest. 



6 



DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO LVCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By stimulating researches. 

1 . Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original me- 
moirs on all branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, in 
a quarto form, and entitled '^Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge." 

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be acccepted for pub- 
lication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human knovvledge 
resting on original research j and all unverified speculations to be rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the institution to be submitted for exami- 
nation to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the branch 
to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publication only in 
case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the institution, and 
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favorable 
decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the Transactions of 
literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the colleges 
and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining copies 
may be offered for sale; and the other carefully preserved, to form complete 
sets of the volumes, to supply the demand from new institutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs to be 
given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to Congress. 

II. By appropriating a portion of the income^ annually^ to special objects 
of research, under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by 
counsellors of the institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in course 
of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, with 
the momoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contri- 
butions to Knowledge, 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the 
problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, magnet- 
ical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation of a 
Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination of 
the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light j chemical 



analyses of soils and plants ; collection and publication of articles of science, 
accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, moral, 
and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in 
American history. 

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the different 
races of men in North America; also explorations and accurate surve^'^s of 
the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the 
new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year inall 
branches of knowledge not strictly professional. 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interesting, 
but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the reports 
may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the income of the 
institution, or the changes in the branches of knowledge, may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators, eminent in the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publications, 
domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report; to be 
paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-page of the 
report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons interested 
in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it, without pur- 
chasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribution; 
the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institutions; and 
sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the 

reports. 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and 
meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, (fee. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to arts. 



8 



II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, an- 
tiquities, &c. 

6. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world ; penal reform, &:c. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibhography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. Bi/ the publication of separate treatises on subjects of ge?ieral iii' 
terest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs, trans- 
lated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the direction of 
the institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposition of 
a given subject. 

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission ol 
competent judges previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the 
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the table 
of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Committee on 
Organization, viz: the statistics of labor, the productive arts of life, public 
instruction, &.c. 

SECTION II. 

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of 
the Board of Regents, providing for the two modes of increasing and 
diffusing knowledge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the institution contemplated the 
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, in- 
eluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the 
income into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by 
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before 
given. The other part to be appro^sriated to the formation of a library and 
a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another. 



4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceedings 
of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more important cur- 
rent periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing the 

periodical reports. 

5. The insthution should make special collections, particularly of ob- 
jects to verify its own publications. 

6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of experi- 
mental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those mentioned 
above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States should 
be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may be such 
as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and 
other materials, should be collected for rendering the institution a centre 
of bibliographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any 
work which he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase by 
donation, as rapidly as the income of the institution can make provision 
for their reception, and therefore it will seldom be necessary to purchase 
any articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of arts casts of 
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense, 
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of anti- 
quities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides the 
Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act as 
librarian. 

14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence, with 
the advice of the ChanceUor and other members of the establishment, of 
the literary and scientific operations of the institution,- to give to the 
Regents annually an account of all the transactions; of the memoirs which 
have been received for publication; of the researches which have been 
made; and to edit, with the assistance of the librarian, the publications of 
the institution. 

15. The duty of the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, will be, for 
the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and pur- 
chase, under the direction of the Secretary and a committee of the board, 
books and catalogues, and to procure the information before mentioned ; to 

2 



10 

give informaiion on plans of libraries, and to assist the Secretary in editing 
the pubhcations of the institution and in the other duties of his office. 

16, The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
new objects of art; also distinguished individuals should be invited to give 
lectures on subjects of general interest. 

17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with the 
act of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the 
Smithsonian Institution, other assistants will be required. 



Explanations and illustrations of the programme. 

Though the leading propositions of the programme have been fully dis- 
cussed by the board, yet it will be important to ofler some remarks in ex- 
planation and illustration of them in their present connexion. 

That the institution is not a national establishment, in the sense in which 
institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must be evi- 
dent when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely given to the 
United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely: the estab- 
lishment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name of the 
donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of all the 
good which may be accomplished by means of the bequest. The operations 
ot the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be mingled as httle as 
possible with those of the government, and its funds should be applied ex- 
clusively and faithfully to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men. 

That the bequest is intended for the benefit of men in general, and that 
its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even nation , 
may be inferred not only from the words of the will, but also from the 
character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote, from a scrap of 
paper in his own hand, the folloAving sentiment bearing on this point: 
-' The man of science has no country; the world is his country — all men. 
his countrymen." The origin of the funds, the bequest of a foreigner, 
sliould also preclude the adoption of a plan which does not, in the word? 
of Mr. Adams, " spread the benefits to be derived from the institution not 
only over the whole surface of this Union, but throughout the civilized 
world," '' Mr. Smithson's reason for fixing the seat of his institution at 
Washington obviously was, that there is the seat of government of the 
United States, and there the Congress by whose legislation, and the Ex- 



11 

•eciUive tliTough whose agency, the trust committed to the honor, intelli- 
gence, and good faith of the nation, is to be fulfilled." The centre of 
operations being permanently fixed at Washington, the character of this 
city for hterature and science will be the more highly exalted in proportion 
as the influence of the institution is more widely diflused. 

That the terms increase and dijj'usinn of knowledge are logically dis- 
tinct, and should be literally interpreted with reference to the will, must be 
evident wh-en we reflect that they are ysed in a definite sense, and not as 
mere synonymes, by all who are engaged in the pursuits to which Smithson 
devoted his life. In England there are two classes of institutions, founded 
on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. The Royal Society, the Astro- 
nomical, the Geological, the Statistical, the Antiquaiian Societies, all have 
for their object the increase of knowledge; while the London Institution, the 
Mechanics' Institution, the Surry Institution, the Society for the Diflusion 
of Religious Knowledge, the Society for the Dift\ision of Useful Knowledge, 
are all intended to difluse or disseminate knowledge among men. In 
our own country, also, the sam« distinction is observed in the use of th(' 
terms by men of science. Our colleges, academies, and common schools, 
are recognised as institutions partially ijitended for the diffusion of knowl- 
edge, while the express object of some of our scientific societies is the pro- 
motion of the discovery of new truths. 

The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowl- 
edge; though propositions have been frequently made for devoting the 
funds exclusively to the promotion of certain branches of science having 
more immediate application to the practical arts of life, and the adoption of 
these propositions has been urged on the ground of the conformity of such 
objects to the pursuits of Smithson; but an examination of his writing.*^ 
will show that he excluded from his own studies no branch of general 
knowledge, and that he was fully impressed with the important philosopii- 
ical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great system of 
truth. To restrict, therefore, the operations of 'fhe institution to a single 
science or art, would do injustice to the character of the donor, as well as 
to the cause of general knowledge. If preference is to be -given to any 
branches of research, it should be to the higher, and apparently more ab- 
stract; to the discovery of new principles, ratlier than of isolated facts. And 
this is true even in a practical point of view. Agriculture would have for- 
ever remained an empirical art, had it not been for the light shed upon it 
by the atomic theory of chemistry; and incomparably more is to be ex- 
pected as to its future advancement from the perfection of the microscope, 
ihan from improvements in the ordinary instruments of husbandry. 



12 

The plan of increasing and diffusing knowledge, presented in the first 
section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance with the sev- 
eral propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in die in- 
troduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design of interesting 
the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the institution, 
and of spreading its infinence as widely as possible. It forms an active 
organization, exciting all to make original researches who are gifted with 
the necessary power, and diffusing a kind of knowledge, now only ac- 
cessible to the few, among all those who are willing to receive it. In 
this country, though many excel in the application of science to the prac- 
tical arts of life, lew devote themselves to the continued labor and patient 
thought necessary to the discovery and development of new truths. The 
principal cause of this want of attention to original research, is the want, 
not of proper means, but of proper encouragement. The publication of 
original memoirs and periodical reports, as contemplated by the programme, 
will act as a powerful stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by pla- 
cing in bold relief the real laborers in the field of original research, while 
it will afford the best materials for the use of those engaged in the diffu- 
sion of knowledge. 

The advantages which will accme from the plan of publishing the vol- 
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, are various. In the 
first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favorably known 
wherever literature and science are ciiltivated, and to keep it in continual 
remembrance with each succeeding volume, as long as knowledge is val- 
ued. A single new truth, first given to the world through these volumes, 
will forever stamp their character as a work of reference. The contribu- 
tions will thus form the most befitting monument to perpetuate the name 
of one whose life was devoted to the increase of knowledge, and whose 
ruling passion, strong in death, prompted the noble bequest intended to 
facilitate the labors of others in the same pursuit. 

Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs will 
afford to the institution the most ready means of entering into friendly 
relations and "correspondence with all the learned societies in the world, 
and of enriching its library with their current transactions and proceedings. 
But perhaps the most important efiect of the plan will be that of giving to 
the world many valuable memoirs, which, on account of the expense of the 
illustrations, could not be otherwise published. Every one who adds 
jiew and important truths to the existing stock of knowledge, must be 
of necessity, to a certain degree, in advance of his age. Hence the 
jiumber of readers and purchasers of a work is generally in the inverse 



13 

ratio of its intrinsic value; and consequently, authors of the highest 
rank of merit are frequently deterred from giving their productions to 
the world on account of the pecuniary loss to which the publica- 
tion would subject them. When our lamented countryman, Bowditch, 
contemplated publishing his commentary on La Place, he assembled his 
family and informed them that the execution of this design would sacri- 
fice one-third of his fortune, and that it was proper his heirs should be con- 
suhed on a subject which so nearly concerned them. The answer 
was worthy of the children of such a father: " We value," said they, 
"your reputation more than your money." F^ortunately, in this in- 
stance, the means of making such a sacrifice existed; otherwise one of 
the proudest monuments of American science could not have been given 
to the world. In the majority of cases, however, those who are most 
capable of extending human knowledge are least able to incur the expense 
of the publication. Wilson, the American Ornithologist, states, in a letter 
to Michaux, that he has sacrificed everything to publish his work: " I 
have issued," he says, '^ six volumes, and am engaged on the seventh, but 
as yet I have not received a single cent of the proceeds." In an address 
on the subject of natural history, by one of our most active cultivators of 
this branch of knowledge, we find the following remarks, which are directly 
in point: " Few are acquainted with the fact that from the small number 
of scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates, our naturalists not 
only are not paid for their labors, but suffer pecuniary loss from their publi- 
cations. Several works on different branches of zoology, now in the course 
of publication, will leave their authors losers by an aggregate of ,*|^15,000. 
I do not include in this estimate works already finished — one, for instance, 
the best contribution to the natural history of man extant, the publication 
of which will occasion its accomplished author a loss of several thou- 
sand dollars. A naturalist is extremely fortunate if he can dispose of 200 
copies of an illustrated work, and the number of copies printed rarely exceeds 
250." It may be said that these authors have their reward in the reputa- 
tion which they thus purchase; but reputation should be the result of the 
talents and labor expended in the production of a work, and should not 
in the least depend upon the fact that the author is able to make a pecu- 
niary sacrifice in giving the account of his discoveries to the public. 

Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published in 
the Smithsonian Contributions free of expense, his labors will be given to 
the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of learned men; and 
his merits will be generally made known through the reports of the insti- 
tution. Though the premiums offered may be small, yet they will have 
considerable effect in producing original articles. Fifty or a hundred dollars 



14 

awarded to the author of an original paper, will, in many instances, suf- 
fice to supply the books, or to pay for the materials, or the manual labor 
required, in prosecuting the research. 

There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to much 
discussion, and which, therefore, reqnires particular explanation; I allude 
to that which excludes from the contributions all papers consisting merely 
of unverified speculations on subjects of physical science. The object of 
this proposition is to obviate the endless ditficulties which would occur in 
rejecting papers of an unphiiosophical ciiaracter^ and though it may in 
some cases exclude am interesting communication, yet the strict observance 
of it will be found of so much practical importance that it cannot be dis- 
pensed with. It has been supposed, from the adoption of this proposition, 
that we are disposed to undervalue abstract speculations: on the contrary, 
we know that all the advances in true science — namely, a knowledge of the 
laws of phenom-ena — are made by provisionally adopting well-conditioned 
hypotheses, the product of the imagination, and subsequently verifying 
them by an appeal to experiment and observation. Every new hypothesis 
of scientific value must not only furnish an exact explanation of known 
facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind and quantity, the phe- 
nomena which will be exhibited under any given combination of cir- 
cumstances. Thus, in the case of the nndulatory hypothesis of light, it 
was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the supposition were true 
that light consisted of waves of an ethereal medium, then two rays of light, 
like two waves of water under certain conditions, should annihilate each 
other, and darkness be produced. The experiment was tried, and the 
anticipated result was obtained. It is this exact agreement of the deduc- 
tion with the actual result of experience that constitutes the verification of 
an hypothesis, and which alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to 
a place in the Transactions of a scientific institution. It must be recollected 
that it is much easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few 
of all the hypotheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific 
verification. 

For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a 
memoir, and the precaution taken before it is accepted for publication, I 
would refer to the correspondence, given in a subsequent part of this report, 
relative to the memoir now in process of publication by the institution. 
As it is not our intention to interfere with the jwoceedings of other insti- 
tutions, but to co-operate with them, so far as our respective operations are 
compatible, communications may be referred to learned societies for inspec- 
tion, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir, and abstracts of them 
given to the world through the bulletins of these societies^ while the details 



15 

of the memoirs and their expensive illustrations are published in the vol- 
nmes of the Smithsonian Contributions. The officers of several learned 
societies in this country have expressed a willingness to co-operate in this 
way. 

Since original research is the most direct way of increasing knowl- 
edge, it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the bequest 
should be appropriated to this purpose^ provided suitable persons can 
be found, and their labors be directed to proper objects. The num- 
ber, however, of those who are capable of discovering scientific prin- 
ciples is comparatively small; like the }X)et; they are "born, not 
made," and, like him, must be left to choose their own subject, and 
wait the fitting time of inspiration. In case a person of this class has 
fallen on a vein of discovery, and is pursuing it with success^ the better 
plan will be to grant him a small sum of money to carry on his investiga- 
tions, provided they are considered worthy of assistance by competent 
judges. This will have the double effect of encouraging him in the pursuit, 
andof facilitating his progress. The institution, however, need not depend 
upon cases of this kind, even if they were more numerous than they are, 
for the application of its funds in the line of original research. There are 
large fields of observation and experimentj the cultivation of which, though 
it may afford no prospect of the discovery of a principle, can hardly fail 
to produce results of importance both in a practical and a theoretic point of 
view. As an illustration of this remark, I may mention the case of the in- 
I'estigations made a few years ago by committees of the Franklin Institute, 
of Philadelphia. The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States 
placed at the disposal of this society a sum of money, for the purpose of 
making experiments with reference to the cause of the explosion of steam- 
boilers. A committee of the society was chosen for this purpose, which 
adopted the ingenious plan of writing to all persons in the United States en- 
gaged in the application of steam, and particularly to those who had observed 
the explosion of a steam-boiler. In this way opinions and suggestions in 
great variety, as to the cause of explosions, were obtained. The most 
plausible of these were submitted to the test of experiment: the results ob- 
tained were highly important, and are to be found favorably mentioned in 
every systematic work on the subject of steam which has appeared, in any 
language, within the last few years. New and important facts were es- 
tablished; and, what was almost of as much consequence, errors Avhich had 
usurped the place of truth were dethroned. 

In the programme, examples are given of a few subjects of original re- 
search to which the attention of the institution may be turned. I will 



16 

mention one in this place, which, in connexion with the contents of our 
first memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude to a small appro- 
priation made annually for researches with reference to the remains of the 
ancient inhabitants of our country. This is a highly interesting field, 
and what is done in regard to it should be done quickly. Every year the 
progress of civilization is obliterating the ancient mounds, cities and vil- 
lages are rising on. the spots they have so long occupied undistnrbed, and the 
distinctive marks of these remains are every year becoming less and less 
legible. 

In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affecting 
men in general by the operations of the institution, it is evident that the 
principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the j37-ess. Though lec- 
tures should be given in the city in which Sniithson has seen fit to direct 
the establishment of his institution, yet, as a plan of general ditfusion of 
knowledge, the system of lectures would be entirely inadequate; every 
village in our extended country would have a right to demand a share of 
the benefit, and the income of the institution would be insufficient to supply 
a thousandth part of the demand. It is also evident that the knowledge 
diffused should, if possible, not only embrace all branches of general in- 
terest, so that each reader might find a subject suited to his taste, but also 
that it should differ in kind and quality from that which can be readily 
obtained through the cheap publications of the day. These requisites 
will be fully complied with in the publications of the series of reports pro- 
posed in the programme. A series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all 
the discoveries in science from, time to time, and giving a well digested ac- 
count of all the important changes in the different branches of knowledge, 
is a desideratum in the English language. The idea is borrowed from a 
partial plan of diis kind in operation in Sweden and Germany; and for an 
example of what the work should be, I would refer to the annual report to 
the Swedish Academy of its perpetual Secretary, Berzelius, on physical 
science. The reports can be so prepared as to be highly interesting to the 
general reader, and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive 
cultivator of a particular branch of knowledge. Full references should 
be given, in foot-notes, to the page, number, or volume of the work from 
which the information was obtained, and where a more detailed account 
can be foluid. It is scarcely necessary to remarlc, that the preparation of 
these reports should be intrusted only to persons profoundly acquainted 
with the subjects to which they relate — namely, to those who are devoted 
to particular branches, while they possess a knowledge of general princi- 
ples. Suffice lent explanations should be introduced to render the report in- 



1 



17 

telligible to the general reader, without destroying its scientific character. 
Occasionally reports may be obtained from abroad — as, for example, ac- 
counts of the progress of certain branches of knowledge in foreign coun- 
tries — and these maybe translated, if necessary, and incorporated into other 
reports, by some competent person in this country. 

Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme pro- 
poses to publish occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. There 
are always subjects of general interest, of which brief expositions would 
be of much value. The preparation of these, however, should be intrusted 
to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be subjected 
to a revision by competent and responsible judges before they are given to 
the public. They may be presented in the form of reports on the existing 
state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may sometimes consist 
of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of literature and science, 
translated from foreign languages. The reports and treatises of the insti- 
tution, sold at a price barely suiRcient to pay the expense of printing, will 
find their way into every school in our country, and will be used not as 
first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of reliable information for the 
teacher. 

The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been 
made out, the details of the part of the plan of organization directed by 
the act of Congress establishing the institution. The two plans, namely, 
that of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects 
of nature and art, are not incompatible, and may be carried on harmoni- 
ously with each other. The only effect which they will have on one 
another is that of limiting the operation of each, on account of the funds 
given to the other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical 
expenditure of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the plan 
of finance, suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the building, 
much good maybe effected in each of the two branches of the institution. 
To carry on the operations of the first, a working library will be required, 
consisting of the past volumes of the transactions and proceedings of all 
the learned societies in every language. These are the original sources 
from which the most important principles of the positive knowledge of our 
day have been drawn. We shall also require a collection of the most im- 
portant current literature and science for the use of the collaborators of the 
reports; most of these, however, will be procured in exchange for the pub- 
lications of the institution, and therefore will draw but little from the li- 
brary fund. For other suggestions relative to the details of the library, I 
3 



18 

would refer you to the annexed communication from Professor Jewett, As- 
sistant Secretary, acting as librarian. (See appendix No. 1.) 

The collections of the institution, as far as possible, should consist of 
such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the 
visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan be 
kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals. A per- 
fect collection of all objects of nature and of art, if such could be obtained 
;ind deposited in one place, would form a museum of the highest interest; 
but the portion of the income of the bequest which can be devoted to the 
increase and maintenance of the museum, will be too small to warrant 
any attempt towards an indiscriminate collection. It is hoj^ed that in due 
time other means may be found of establishing and supporting a general 
collection of objects of nature and art at the seat of the general govern- 
ment, with funds not derived from the Smithsonian bequest. For the 
present, it should be the object of the institution to confine the application 
of the funds, first, to such collections as will tend to facilitate the study of 
tlie memoirs which may be published in the Contributions, and to estab- 
lish their correctness^ secondly, to the purchase of such objects as are not 
generally known in this country, in the way of art, and the illustration of 
antiquities^ such as models of buildings, (fcc; and, thirdly, to the formation 
of a collection of instruments of physical research, which will be required 
both in the illustration of new physical truths, and in the scientific inves- 
tigations undertaken by the institution. 

Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the institution 
at Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on slated 
evenings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assem- 
blies, after the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution iu 
London. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture ^ 
new truths in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited. 
Besides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects by 
the officers of the institution, or by distinguished individuals invited for 
the purpose. 

Commencement of the operations of the msfitutmrj. 

I was authorized, in connexion with the Committee on Organization, d> 
commence the publication of the Smithsonian Contribudons to KiaowL- 
edge, and to receive any memoir which might be presented on any subject, 
provided it was found, on examination, to furnish an interesting additioii 
to the sum of human knowledge, resting on original research. Tlie 
first memoir presented, and found to be of the character prescribed by 



19 

the resolution of the board, was one on the remains of the ancient in- 
habitants of the North American continent. It contains the result of 
several years' labor in the survey and exploration of the mounds and earth- 
\vorics of the Mississippi valley, and will furnish a highly interesting addi- 
tion to the antiquities of our country, which could not have been given to 
the world, but for the timely aid extended to it by this institution. The 
memoir was referred to the American Ethnological Society, with a request 
that a committee of its members might be appointed to examine and re- 
port on its character, as to fitness for publication in the Smithsonian Con- 
tributions to Knowledge. On the favorable report of this committee, and 
on the rjsponsibility of the society, the memoir has been accepted for pub- 
lication. The following correspondence will serve to giv^e an account of 
the work, and to illustrate the manner in which it is proposed to submit the 
papers which may be presented for publication to a commission of com- 
petent judges. 

COPvRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE ACCEPTANCE FOR PUBLICATtON OF THE 
ETHNOLOGICAL 3IEM0IR OF MESSRS. SQUIER AND DAViS. 

From Messrs. Squier and Davis to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Chillicothe, 0., May 15, 1847. 

Dear Sir: It is proposed in the recognised plan of organization of the 
Smithsonian Institution, of which you are the executive officer, to publish, 
under the title of " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge," such original 
papers and memoirs " as shall constitute valuable additions to the sum of hu- 
man knowledge." Under the belief that it falls legitimately within the scope 
of the above plan, the undersigned herewith submit for acceptance and publi- 
cation, subject to the prescribed rules of the institution, a MS. memoir, entitled 
"Ancient Monuments OF the Mississippi Valley, comprising the results of 
Extensive Original Surveys and Explorations: by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis." 
The extent of these investigations, and their general character, are sufficiently 
indicated in the prefatory remarks to the volume. 

With high consideration, we are truly yours, 

E. GEO. SQUIER. 
E. H. DAVIS. 

Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



From the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the President of the Ameri- 
can Ethnological Society. 

Washington, June 2, 1847. 

Dear Sir: I am authorized by the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 
to publish, in the numbers of the " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,''' 
•any memoir which may be presented for this purpose, provided that, on carefji 



20 

examination by a commission of competent judges, the memoir shall be found 
to furnish a new and interesting addition to knowledge, resting on original re- 
search. The accompanying memoir, entitled " Ancie7it Monuments of the Mis- 
sissippi Valley,''' Si'c, having been presented for publication, I beg leave to refer 
the same, through you, to the American Ethnological Society, with the re- 
quest that a committee of the members may be appointed to examine and 
report on its character, in reference to the particulars above mentioned. If the 
report of the committee be favorable, the memoir will be accepted for publica- 
tion ; full confidence being placed in the ability of tlie committee to judge of 
the character of the article, and in their caution in making up their opinion. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

Hon. Albert Gallatin, 

President American Ethnological Society. 



Extract of a letter from the President of the American Ethnological Society to 
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

"New York, J«7iel2, 1847. 

" Dear Sir : I have the honor to enclose a copy of the proceedings and 
resolutions of the New York Ethnological Society upon the MS. work on 
American Antiquities, by Messrs. E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, submitted with 
your letter of the Sd inst. 

" I approve entirely of the resolutions and recommendations of the society. 

" Whatever may be the intrinsic value of the remains of former times which 
are found in the LFnited States, it is necessary that they should at least be cor- 
rectly described, and that existing gross errors should be corrected ; and I re- 
peat my conviction that, though ardent, Messrs. Squier and Davis are animated 
by that thorough love of truth which renders their researches worthy of entire 
confidence. 

" I have the honor to be, &c., 

" ALBERT GALLATIN. 
" Prof J. Henry, 

" Secretary of Smithsonian Institution J' ^ 



At a regular meeting of the American Ethnological Society, held at the 
house of the Hon. Albert Gallatin, on the evening of the 4th of June, the 
president laid before the members a communication from Professor J Henry, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting, for the examination and 
opinion of the society, a MS. work on the Ancient Aboriginal Monuments of 
the United States. On motion, the letter and accompanying MS. were refer- 
red to a committee consisting of Edward Robinson, D. D., John R. Bartlett, 
Professor W. W. Turner, Samuel G. Morton, M. D., and Hon. George P. 
Marsh, to report upon the same. At a subsequent meeting of the society, 
this committee submitted the following report and resolutions, which were 
unanimously accepted and adopted : 



i 



21 



REPORT. 

The committee of the American Ethnological Society, to which was referred 
the communication of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting 
a manuscript work, entitled "Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Val- 
ley, comprising the results of Extensive Original Surveys and ExjilorationSy" 
by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, beg leave to report, that 

They have examined the work in question, and regard it not only as a new 
and interesting, but as an eminently valuable addition to our stock of knowl- 
edge on a subject little understood, but in which is felt a deep and constantly 
increasing interest, both in our country and abroad. In their judgment, the 
work is worthy of the subject, and highly creditable to the authors. Its chief 
features are, a scientiiic arrangement, simplicity, and directness of statement, 
and legitimate deduction from facts, while there is no attempt at mere specula- 
tion or theory. If published, it will be an enduring monument to connect the 
names of the investigators in honorable and lasting remembrance with the great 
subject of American Archaeology. 

The existence and progress of these investigations were made known to 
the society by correspondence early in the year 1846; and in June of that year 
specimens of the relics recovered, accompanied by numerous maps and plans of 
ancient earthworks and sectional views of the mounds from which the remains 
were taken, were laid before the society by Mr. Squier in person. These ex- 
cited deep interest and surprise in all who saw them ; and the society imme- 
diately took measures to encourage further investigation, and secure the publi- 
cation, under its own auspices, of the important results already obtained. A 
k\v months later, the chairman of the present committee, being in Ohio, was 
enabled, through the kindness of Messrs. Squier and Davis, to visit several of 
the more important monuments in the immediate vicinity of Chillicothe, and, 
among these, "Mound City," so called, from which very many of the minor relics 
and specimens were procured. He was struck with the accuracy of the plans 
and drawings, as well as of the accounts which had been laid before the socie- 
ty, and bears full testimony to the fidelity and integrity with which the process 
of investigation and delineation has been conducted. 

During the last and present season the researches of these gentlemen have 
been actively prosecuted and widely extended, and the above work, largely il- 
lustrated, comprising the results, has been prepared. These results are so nu- 
merous and important, and consequently such is the extent and magnitude of 
the work itself, as to put its publication beyond any means which the society 
can command. Under these circumstances, your committee learn with pleas- 
ure that preliminary arrangements have been made for its publication by the 
Smithsonian Institution, among its "Contributions to Knowledge." It can only 
be a matter of sincere gratification to this society to see that which it cannot 
itself accomplish for the history and antiquities of our country, taken up and 
carried out under such favorable auspices ; and they cannot but rejoice that an 
opportunity is thus afforded to that noble institution of opening its high career 
by fostering scientific researches into the interesting problenis connected with 
the Ante-Columbian history and Aboriginal monuments of our own country. 

In view of these facts, your committee would recommend the adoption of the 
following resolutions by the society : 

Resolved, That this society regard the researches of Messrs. Squier and 
Davis as of very great importance in American Archceology, and as casting much 
light upon our aboriginal antiquities, especially upon the character and habits 
of the earliest races which had their seat in the Mississippi valley. 



22 

Resolved, That we regard the work prepared upon this subject as one of 
great general interest, and as worthy to be adopted for pubhcation by the Smith- 
sonian Institution, both as resting on original researches, and as affording re- 
markable illustrations of the history of the American continent. 

Your committee would also append to this report the accompanying letters 
from Samuel G. Morton, M. D., of Philadelphia, and Hon. George P. Marsh, of 
Vermont, both members of this society, and joint members of this committee. 
Ail of which is respectfully submitted. 

EDWARD ROBINSON, ) 
JOHN R. BARTLETT, > Committee. 
W. W.TURNER, ) 

New York, June, 1817. 



New York, June 9, 1847. 

I have examined with much interest and attention the manuscripts, drawings, 
and ancient relics in the possession of Mr. E. G. Squier, and am happy to 
say that my previous impressions concerning the value of the researches of that 
gentleman and his associate are fully confirmed. It is Ibrtunate for the cause 
of American Archaeology that the first systematic attempt at its elucidation 
should have been conceived and executed in so truly philosophical a spirit; and 
rich as this age already is in antiquarian lore, it has, I think, received few more 
important contributions than that y/hich the enlightened and generous zeal of 
these two private gentlemen is about to conier upon it. The Smithsonian col- 
lections could not begin with a more appropriate or creditable essay : and I 
hope that every facility may be aftbrded to the authors in bringing before tlie 
public the results of their honorable labors in as suitable a form and with as 
little delay as possible. 

GEO. P. MARSH. 



Philadelphia, JuneS, 1847. 

As a member of the committee of the American Ethnological Society, ap- 
pointed to report on the memoir on American Archaeology, by Messrs. E. G. 
Squier and E. H. Davis, I have great pleasure in saying that after a careful and 
repeated inspection of the materials in the hands of those gentlemen, I am con- 
vinced they constitute by far the most important contribution to the Archae- 
ology of the United States that has ever been offered to the public. The num- 
ber and accuracy of their plans, sketches, &.c., have both interested and sur- 
prised me, and it is gratifying to learn that the preliminary arrangements have 
been made for their publication under the honorable auspices of the Smithso* 
nian Institution. 

SAML. GEORGE MORTON. 



The memoirs of Messrs. Sqitier and Davis will occupy the greater portion, 
if not the whole, of the first volume of tlie Contributions. The iUustra- 
tions will consist of fifty-five quarto plates of the mounds, earthworks, and 
maps of the adjacent country; also, of about two hundred wood-cuts, 
principally delineations of the various articles found in the mounds. 
Those who consider no branch of knowledge of any value but such as 



2g 

relates to the immediate gratification of our physical wants, have o])jectedi 
to the acceptance of this memoir as one of the first pubhcations of the 
institution; but it must be recollected that the will of Smithson makes no 
restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge, and that each 
branch is, therefore, entitled to a share of his bequest. The Ethnological 
memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis was the first, of the proper character, 
presented for publication, and hence it was entitled to the first place in the 
series of Smithsonian Contributions. Besides this, it furnishes an addition 
to a branch of knowledge which is at this time occupying the attention of 
a large class of minds, and which cannot fail to be interesting to every 
intelligent person who would learn something of the changes to which 
man has been subjected. 

One of the volumes of the Contributions will contain a sketch of the life 
of Smithson, by the Chancellor. The materials for this have been col- 
lected from the several volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Society, 
and the scientific journals of the beginning of the present, and the latter part 
of the last century. The first volume will be published as soon as the 
wood-cuts and plates, now in the course of preparation, are finished. 

Besides the memoirs before mentioned, a number of others have been 
presented, some of which, though apparently of interest, and the product 
of thought and labor, were not of the character required by the resolution 
of the board, and these have either been returned to the authors, or are in 
the possession of the Secretary. A number of others have also been pro- 
visionally adopted, or are in the course of preparation. Some of these are 
on the most abstruse parts of physical science, and all will do honor to the 
intellectual character of our country. Though the number of original 
memoirs which will be found worthy of a place in the Contributions will 
probably not be large, yet it will, perhaps, be best to set apart a definite 
portion of the income of the bequest — as, for example, at present three or 
four thousand dollars annually — to defray the expense of this part of the 
plan of increasing knowledge. A considerable portion, however^ of the 
sum thus expended will be returned to the institution in the fomi of addi- 
tions to its library. I may also suggest, in this place, the propriety of the 
adoption, by the board, of a resolution inviting all engaged in original re- 
search to send the results of their labors for publication in the Smithso- 
nian Contributions. 

The board also directed me to commence the collection of apparatus, 
and I accordingly sent orders to Euro})e, to the amount of twelve hundred 
dollars, for the purchase of such articles as could not be procured in the 
Lnited States. Most of the instruments have been received, and wiH 



24 

be found of importance, not only in the way of original research, but 
also in illustrating some of the most interesting and recent phenomena 
of physical science, as well as serving as samples for imitation to the art- 
ists of this country. It was thought that these articles would be admitted 
free of duty, and a petition to this effect was presented to the Secretary of 
the Treasury; but, though this officer is well known to be much interested 
in the prosperity of the institution, such is the nature of the law that the 
duty could not be remitted. 

There is an article of apparatus which, within a few years past, has 
opened almost a new world of research in the phenomena of life and 
organization, the use of Avhich is now indispensable in advancing our 
knowledge of physiology and its kindred branches of science. I allude to 
the achromatic microscope, to increase the power of which, the artists of 
Germany, France, and England have vied with each other. On account 
of the small number of persons who are capable of constructing the proper 
lenses, the best specimens of this instrument are very scarce in this coun- 
try, and can be procured only at a great expense. Under these circum- 
stances, it was a matter of much interest to learn, from a source which 
could be relied upon, that an individual in the interior of the State of 
New York had successfully devoted himself to the study of the micro- 
scope, and that he was able to produce instruments of this kind which 
would compete with the best of those constructed in Europe. In order to 
do justice to the talents and labors of this person, as well as to furnish the 
institution with a valuable instrument of research, I requested him to con- 
struct a microscope, to be paid for out of the funds for the purchase of 
apparatus, provided that a commission, appointed by myself, should find it 
capable of producing certain effects. This proposition was accepted, and 
the result will probably be given to the board at the next meeting. 

Preparations have also been made for instituting various lines of physi- 
cal research. Among the subjects mentioned in the programme as an ex- 
ample for the application of the funds of the institution, is terrestrial magnet- 
ism. I need scarcely say that this is a subject not only of high interest in 
a theoretical point of view, but also in its direct reference to navigation and 
the various geodetical operations of civil and military life. A resolution 
of Congress, authorizing the exploration of the mineral lands adjacent to 
the great lakes, has given to us the means of advancing this branch of 
knowledge with but little expenditure of the funds of the institution. The 
Secretary of the Treasury readily agreed to the proposition that there 
should be added to the mineralogical and geological surveys of these 
regions, determinations of the dip, the variation, and the intensity of the 



25 

magnetic forces, provided that the Smithsonian Institution would furnish 
one set of the instruments; and take charge of the direction of the obser- 
vations, and of reducing and publishing them. In the survey of the min- 
eral lands in the vicinity of lake Michigan under Dr. Jackson, Dr. Locke, 
of Cincinnati, has been employed with his own apparatus; and to supply 
the necessary instruments for the survey in Wisconsin, preliminary steps 
have been taken to procure otlrer instruments from liOndon. 

Another subject of research mentioned in theprogranjme, and which has 
been urged upon the immediate attention of the institution, is that of an ex- 
tensive system of meteorological observations, particularly with reference 
to the phenomena of American storms. Of late years, in our country, 
more additions have been made to meteorology than to any other branch 
of physical science. Several important generalizations have been arrived at, 
and definite theories proposed, which now enable us to direct our attention, 
with scientific precision, to such points of observation as cannot fail to 
reward us with new and interesting results. It is proposed to organize a 
system of observations which shall extend as far as possible over the 
North American continent; and in order to this, it will be necessary to en- 
gage the co-operation of the British government. I have accordingly ad- 
dressed a letter on this subject to Lieutenant Colonel Sabine, corresponding 
secretary of the Royal Society, who assures me that, as soon as the plan 
is fully matured for this country, there will be no difficulty in establishing 
a system of corresponding observations in the British provinces. I have also 
addressed letters to several gentlemen distinguished for 'their attainments in 
meteorology, asking for suggestions as to ihe plan of observation; and I beg 
leave to refer the board to the accompanying report of Prof Loomis, of New 
York University, and also to the comnnrnication Of Prof. Espy, received in 
answer. (Appendix Nos. 2 and 3.) The former contains an exposition of 
the advantages which may be derived from the study of meteorology, and 
what has been 'done in this branch of science in this country, and what 
-encouragement there is for the further prosecution of the same subject, 
together with a general plan of operations. The present time appears to 
be peculiarly auspicious for commencing an enterprise of the proposed 
kind. The citizens of the United States are now scattered over every part 
of the southern and western portion of North America, and the extended 
lines of telegraph will furnish a ready means of warning the more northern 
and eastern observers to be on the watch for the iirst appearojice of an 
advancing storm. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

Secretary. 
To the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

4 



26 



APPENDIX No. 1. 

.Extract from a conuniinication of Professor Jcrcett, Assistant Secretary 
of the institution, acting as librarian. 

My dear sir: As I do not expect to have the pleasure of seeing you again 
before the meeting of the Regents, I Avill, with your indulgence, refer to 
some of the principal matters which will require attention in commencing 
the library. They would no doubt all occur to you in their order, but I 
have thought you might find it convenient to have this part of the busi- 
ness in some degree prepared to your hands, A great deal of preparatory 
work is to be gone through with, before any books can be placed on the 
shelves. 

1. On the plan proposed for the library, it seems to me that the first 
thing to be done is to make arrangements for obtaining catalogues, printed 
or in manuscript, of the principal libraries of the United States; to ex- 
amine these libraries, as far as can be done personally, in order to know 
their general character, the statistics of their increase, &c.; and to form 
such alliances with the librarians as will be indispensable in making the 
library of the institution, in conformity with the suggestion of Dr. Bache, 
a supplemental one, and a centre of bibliographical ,i"eference. Some 
libraries possess printed catalogues complete nearly down to the present 
time; others are several years behindhand. It will be necessary to pro- 
cure manuscript catalogues in continuation of those which have been print- 
ed, and to make arrangements for receiving, from month to month, or from 
year to year, lists of all future accessions. These supplementary cata- 
logues should all be prepared on a uniform plan . The titles should be written 
on cards of the same size, so that they may be placed together in one al- 
phabetical arrangement, in order to facilitate research. A mark placed 
on the back of each card will designate the library from which it came. 
Now, in every library with which we are in correspondence some one must 
be employed to do this. It would be merely clerk's labor, where the cata- 
logues are properly kept, and no doubt the librarian or assistant might in 
every case be induced to undertake it for a small compensation. 

2. The next thing to be done will be to make arrangements for pro- 
curing the books to v/hich we are entitled by the 10th section Df the char- 
ter of the institution. Unless something be done, this provision, in course 
of time, will bring in comparatively few books in a year. I have no doubt 
that publishers generally would readily send their books, if the subject were 
properly presented to them, and arrangements made by which they could 
transmit them to Washington without subjecting the institution or them- 
selves to expenses altogether disproportioncd to the value of the books. 



27 

It has occurred tome that perhaps the several district clerks might be in- 
duced to attend to the business: it is perhaps legally their duty to do so, but 
I suppose it would be unsafe to rely upon their performing faithfully such au 
unexpected duty, unless they received for it some additional compensation. 
Besides this, a circular might be printed and sent to publishers, setting 
forth the advantages which would result directly to the cause of letters, 
tond indirectly to themselves, from compliance with this requirement. By 
these means I think we should obtain nearly all the publications of impor- 
tance issued from the American press. 

3. The selection of books for the first purchase must be made. This 
will, I suppose, comprise three classes of works: 1. Those which may be 
immediately needed in the scientific department; 2. Bibliographical works 
and descriptions, histories and catalogues of similar institutions; and, 3. 
The general collection, consisting of the memoirs, transactions, and jour- 
nals of the learned societies of Europe and America. These three classes of 
books will form a libraiy quite unique, and one of great utilit^^ The 
catalogue, if it be made with fulness and accuracy, will be a valuable pub- 
lication. I think, further, that a somewhat extended list of books should 
be made out for future purchases. These lists should be intrusted to 
honest and faithful men in some of the principal book marts in Europe, 
with orders to buy the books whenever they can find them — at say one- 
half the ordinary p'ices. In this way we should obtain at very low prices 
great numbers of the books which we shall want. Of course, the same 
list should not be left with different men. The work should be done 
with care, and by consultation with the best scholars in the country. It 
will be difficult to find the necessary bibliographical helps. The best col- 
lection of them in the country is in the library of the Brown University, 
but this is very imperfect. 

4. The first purchases are to be made, and the arrangements for future 
purchases. These, of course, should not be commenced until the lists are 
as far completed as they can judiciously be in this country. 

5. Another subject contemplated in the programme of organization, and 
which should receive immediate attention, is the procuring of copies of some 
of the most celebrated loorks of art. It will probably be best to confine the 
purchases at first principally to plaster casts of some of the finest specimens 
of ancient and modern statuary. These can be procured very cheap, and 
convey, of course, a perfect representation of the original. I have no doubt 
that for a public institution, and one under national auspices, we could, 
whenever we desire it, obtain permission to take casts directly from tJie 
statues. 

The expense of doing so would of course be somewhat greater than 
that of purchasing such copies as might be found in the market, but a 



28 

small difference in expense is not to be thought of in such a case. It 
\yould further be desirable to commence the purchase of the models of an- 
tiquities, such as model's in cork of some of the houses, temples, theatres, 
baths, A:c., &.C., in Pompeii and Herculaneum. These can be procured 
at comparatively small prices. Models of every interesting part of Pompeii 
which has been excavated, presenting in miniature a perfect view of nearly 
the whole on the scale of 1 foot to 150, might be procured for about $2,000 .• 
It might also be well to procure a few Etruscan vases; also a few antique 
coins and medals, sufficient to convey some illustration of numismatics, as 
a subsidiary branch of history. The Regents should of course decide 
what proportion of the appropriation for collections should each year be 
expended for these purposes. I will merely remark that $1,000, or even 
$500 at the outset, prudently expended, would procure a very interesting 
collection. 

I have thus stated cjuite in detail the work which must be done before 
the library can be ready for use, or rather before any part of it can be placed 
upon the shelves. Before it can be ready for use, much more is to be done 
in arranging and cataloguing. To lay properly the foundation of a large 
library is a slow work, and much time must necessarily be consumed iu 
producing but small visible results. 

I am;, my dear sir, very truly, your friend and servant, 

C. C. JEWETT.. 
Professor Henry, LL. D., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, 



APPENDIX No. 2. 

Report on the Meteorology of tJie United States: By Professor Loomi.-j. 
Submitted to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

My dear sir: Believing that the science of meteorology has now ar 
rived at that stage of advancement in which a more powerful combination 
of observers is needed to secure any rapid progress, I fully concur in the 
importance of establishing- an extended system of observations under the 
direction of the Smithsonian Institution, and propose in this report briefly 
to inquire, 

I. What advantages society may expect to derive from the study of me- 
teorology, particularly that branch of it which relates to the phenomena of 
storms. 

II. What has already been done in this country, 1st, towards making 
the necessary observations; and, 2d; towards deducing from the obseiTa- 
tions General laws. 



20 

III. What encouragement there is to a further prosecution of the same 
researches; and, 

IV. I shall offer a plan for securing these advantages in their fullest ex- 
tent. 

I. Of what importance to society is the study of meteorology? 

Very little argument is needed to prove that our comfort and convenience ^ 
and not unfrequently our lives and property., are dependent upon meteoro- 
logical phenomena. This is proverbially true of the mariner. Tlie mo- 
ment he embarks upon the treacherous sea, he finds himself at the mercy 
of the winds. His life often depends upon the fidelity with which he 
watches every change in the aspect of the sky. In a single hour he may 
exchange the deceptive calm for the fatal tornado. The number of dis- 
asters upon the sea is frightful 7 and is far greater than is generally known. 
In the gale of December 15, 1839, 89 vessels were wrecked on the Massa- 
chusetts coast; and of these, 61 on a single cape. In the great hurricane of 
17S0, 13 batde-ships were lost, and 16 more dismasted. England and 
America alone suffer an annual loss from wrecks of more than 1,000 ves- 
sels, and nearly one-half of this is on the American coast. 

But how can the study of meteorology benefit the sailor? Will it en- 
able him to calm the tempest — to subdue the raging of the sea ? This we 
do not expect; yet, if he can anticipate the approach of a storm even by a 
few hours, he may generally place himself beyond the reach of its fury. 
Is it in the power of science to enable the navigator to anticipate the 
coming tempest? If so, then it would be difficult to name a subject 
of more vital importance to our commerce. How far this object has been 
already attained, and what encouragement there is to expect further dis- 
coveries, I shall consider hereafter. 

The sailor is not the only person who has an interest in the study of 
meteorology. Although but a small part of the population of the United 
States are directly engaged in foreign commerce, yet so important has this 
department of industry become, and so interwoven with all the business 
of the country, that there is not a trade or profession which does not feel 
the shock of any great disaster at sea. Aside from this indirect interest^ 
tlie farmer is directly dependent upon the weather for the consummation of 
his plans, almost equally with the sailor. Severe drought or excessive 
rains, untimely frost or a scorching sun, may blast all the hopes of the 
husbandman. Here it may be asked, do you expect to produce rain or 
sunshine at pleasure ? Probably not. But if we can anticipate the gene- 
ral character of a season, the farmer may regulate his time of planting or the 
nature of his crops, so as to be least injuriously affected by unpropitious 
weather; so that, if we cannot strip the lightning of its power, we may at 
least direct it harmlessly to the earth. 



30 

Agaiii; an extensive series of meteorological observations may prove of 
immense importance to the scientific physician. It cannot be doubted 
that the sahibrity of a cHmate is to a great extent dependent upon its me- 
teorology — on its mean temperature, the range of the thermometer, the 
suddenness of its changes, the moisture of the air, excessive rains or un- 
usual droughts, <5cc. To trace the connexion between these causes and 
prevalent diseases, requires an accumulation of precise meteorological ob- 
servations made in every variety of exposure, and continued for a long pe- 
riod of time. That it is possible to discover such a connexion, if it really 
exist, cannot admit of a reasonable doubt; nor is it difficult to anticipate 
the important consequences which must flow from it. To discover the 
cause of disease is the first step towards a cure; and it is by no means 
chimerical to suppose that a complete system of meteorological observations 
throughout the United States might be the means of extending the dura- 
tion of human life. 

It cannot, then, be questioned that meteorology is a subject of the greatest 
practical importance, p7'ovided it has any solid foundation for a science. If 
the laws of storms can be discovered, this knowledge must be of the 
highest importance to mankind, particularly to those who are employed in 
navigating the sea. If the prevalent character of a season can be antici- 
pated, it would save the husbandman much bitter disappointment from the 
failure of his crops. If the influence of cliniate upon disease could be 
detected, it might add years to the mean duration of human life. What 
encouragement there may be to anticipate that these results will ever be at- 
tained, I shall consider after inquiring — 

II. What has already been done for the promotion of meteorology, 

1, In the way of making the necessary observations. 

Previous to the year 1819, no combmed systematic effort had been made 
in this country for the promotion of meteorology. Registers had been in- 
dustriously kept by various private individuals, but they were without 
any concerted action. In 1819, under the direction of the then Secretary 
of War, John C. Calhoun, a system of meteorological observations was 
commenced at the different military posts, which has been continued to the 
present time. This was a highly important movement, and was prompted 
by a most liberal spirit. It has furnished us with an approximate knoMd- 
edge of the mean temperature of a considerable number of stations^ many 
of them remote from tl>e more populous parts of the United States. It 
should, however, be remembered that the instruments provided never ex- 
ceeded a thermometer and a rain gauge ; and the observations, therefore, 
had of necessity a limited range. 

In 1825, a similar system of observations was introduced into tlie State 
of New York; almost without modification. Eacli of the academies incor- 



31 

porated by the Board of Regents was furnished with a thermometer and a 
ain-auge, and was reqmred to keep a register, after a prescribed form, m 
order- to be entitled to a portion of the pnbhc Hterary fund This system 
has now continued for more than twenty years, and the number of 
academies reporting has increased from ten to f-'^^- J^^ P^^;;;^^^!;;^^^^ 
creditable to the public spirit and scientific taste of New York. It was a 
movement in advance of pubhc sentiment in the other States, and the ob- 
servations were, perhaps, as extensive as it was expedient to undertake at 
thit time These observations have determined, with considerable accu- 
racy, the mean temperature of the State; and the annual report contains 
a vast amount of important meteorological statistics. 

More recently, Pennsylvania has set an example of the same kind to her 
sister States In 1837 the legislature of that State appropriated $4,0U0 lor 
ihe advancement of meteorology; and out of this sum, which was placed 
at the disposal of a joint committee of the American Philosophical Society 
and Franklin Institute, a barometer, two common thermometers, a selt- 
recnstering thermometer, and a rain-gauge, were purchased for each county 
in%he State, to be placed in the hands of some skilfal observer who 
should volunteer to keep a journal of the weather, according to a com- 
mon form prescribed by the committee. The observations were com- 
menced with little delay, and have been regularly conUnued. Here are 
made observations of the barometer and thermometer three times a day; of 
the self-registering thermometer; the winds estimated for sixteen points of 
the compass; the depth of rain; and, at some stations, observations of the 

dew-point. , .,. 

In the year 1S43, the system of observations at the military posts was 
reorganized upon a scale more in accordance with the claims of science 
They now comprise observations of the barometer, attached and external 
thermometer, wet-bulb thermometer; direction and force of the wind; di- 
rection, velocity, and amount of clouds; each at four hours of the day, 
viz: sunrise, 9 a. m., 3 and 9 p. m.; together with the amount of ram, 
and the times of its beginning and ending. 

Thus it appears we have observations from the general government at 
about sixty posts, stretching along the entire Atlantic coast, the gulf of 
Mexico, the Indian territory beyond the Mississippi, and the chain of 
the northern lakes. Next come the observations of two large States, 
New York and Pennsylvania. And then we have amateur observers 
pretty numerous in New England-scattered more sparingly over the south 

and west. 

I now come to the inquiry, what progress has been made, 
2, Towards deducing from these observations general laws. 



B2 

III the list of philosophers who have contributed to create science out of 
the crude materials furnished by observation, I shall first mention Mr. 
Redfield. His first paper on the storms of the Atlantic coast appeared in 
April, 1831, in volume 20 of the American Journal of Science. This 
paper gives a full account of the hurricane of September, 1821, which was 
traced from the West India islands northward aloEg the whole line of our 
coast. It contained also a notice of the storm of August 17, 1830, and two 
or three other storms of the same year. From a comparison of all the ob- 
servations, Mr. Redfield derived the conclusion that those storms were 
great whirlwinds. In 1833 he published the following general proposi- 
tions, as embodying the results of his investigations: 

1. The severe storms of the Atlantic coast often originate in the tropical 
latitudes, where they are distinguished by the name o( hurricanes . 

2. These storms cover, at the same moment of time, a surface whose 
diameter varies from one to five hundred miles, and in some cases they 
have been much more extensive. They act with diminished violence 
towards tire exterior, and with increased energy towards the interior. 

3. While south of the parallel of 30° these storms pursue their course 
towards the west, on a track which inclines gradually to the northward. 
In the vicinity of latitude 30° their course changes somewhat abruptly to 
the northward and eastward, and the track continues to incline gradually 
to the east, towards which point, after leaving the lower latitudes, they ad- 
vance with an accelerated velocity. The rate of progress may be estimated 
at from 12 to 30 miles an hour. 

4. The duration of the storm at any place within its track depends upon 
its extent, and the rate of velocity with which it moves. 

5. The direction of the wind over the greater portion of the track is not 
the direction of the progress of the storm. 

6. In the lower latitudes, while drifting to the westward^, the direction of 
the wind at the commencement of these storms is from a northern quarter, 
usually from northeast to northu^est, and during the latter part of the gale, 
it blows from a southern quarter of the horizon. 

7. North of the parallel of 30°, and while pursuing their course to the 
northward and eastward, these storms conmience with the wind from an 
eastern or southern quarter-, and terminate with the wind from a western 
quarter. 

8. On the outer portion of the track, they exhibit at their commence- 
ment a southerly wind, which, as the storm comes 'Over, veers gradually to 
the westward, in which quarter it terminates. 

9. Along the central portion of the track, the first force of the wind is 
from the southeast; but after blowing for a certain period, it changes sud- 



38 

denly to an opposite point, from whicli quarter it blows with equal vio- 
lence, till the storm has passed over: it is under this portion of the storm 
that we notice the greatest fall of the barometer, and the mercury usually 
begins to rise a short time previous to the change of wind. 

10. On the inner portion of the track the wind commences from a more 
eastern or northeastern point of the horizon, and afterwards veers by north 
to a northwest or westerly quarter, where it finally terminates. 

11. Hence Mr. Redfield infers that the portion of the atmosphere which 
composes the body of the storm blows in a horizontal circuit around a verti- 
cal axis of rotation, which is carried onward with the storm^ and that the 
direction of the circuit is from right to left. 

12. The barometer always sinks while under the first portion of the 
storm, and rises again under the last portion of the gale. 

In 1835 Mr. Redfield published an analysis of several additional storms 
which visited the American coast, and accompanied his paper with a chart, 
upon which eleven of these tracks were carefully represented. In subse- 
quent years Mr. Redfield continued his investigations, and in 184(5 he 
published an analysis of three additional hurricanes, making sixteen storms 
whose tracks are delineated upon his chart of the Atlantic coast. The re- 
sults of all these investigations served to confirm substantially the conclu- 
sions published in 1833. 

In the Journal of the Franklin Institute for April, 1836;, Mr. Espy 
commenced the publication of a series of essays, in which he announced a 
new theory of storms; and he has since continued his researches up to 
the present time. The following generalizations, given in his own words, 
are the latest at which he has arrived: 

1st. The rain and snow storms, and even the moderate rains and snows, 
travel from the west towards the east, in the United States, during the 
months of January, February, and March, which are the only months yet 
investigated. 

2d. There is a depression of the barometer near the central line of 
the storm. 

3d. The central line of minimum pressure is generally of great length 
from north to south, and moves sideforemost towards the east. 

4th. This line is sometimes nearly straight, but generally curved, and 
most frequently with the convex side towards the east. 

5th. The velocity of this line is such, that it travels from the Mississippi 
to the Connecticut river in about twenty-four hours; and from the Con- 
necticut to St. John, Newfoundland, in nearly the same time, or about 
thirty-six miles an hour. 
5 



34 

6th. When the barometer falls suddenly in the western part of New 
England, it rises at tlie same time in the valley of the Mississippi, and also 
at St. John, Newfoundland. 

7th. In great storms, the wind, for several hundred miles on both sides 
of the line of minimum pressure, blows towards that line directly or ob- 
liquely. 

8th. The force of the wind is in proportion to the suddenness and 
amount of the barometric depression. 

9th. In all great and sudden depressions of the barometer, there is much 
rain or snow; and in all sudden great rains or snows, there is a great fluc- 
tuation of the barometer. 

10th. Many storms are of great and unknown length from north to 
south, reaching beyond our obsen^ers in the gulf of Mexico, on the one 
hand, and beyond the northern lakes on the other, while their east and west 
diameter is comparatively small. The storms, therefore, move side- 
foremost. 

11th. Most storms commence in the '.' far west," beyor>d the stations of 
our most western observers; but some commence in the United States. 

12th. When a storm commences in the United States, the hne of mini- 
mum pressure does not come from the " far west,' ^ but commences with 
the storm, and travels with it towards the east. 

13th. There is generally a Lul) of wind at the lineof mimmem pressure, 
and sometimes a calm. 

14th. When the wind changes to the west, the barometer begins to rise. 

15th. There is generally but little wind near the line of maximum pres- 
sure, and on each side of that line the winds are irregular, but tend out- 
wards from that line. 

16th. The fluctuations of the barometer are generally greater in the 
northern than in the southern parts of the United States. 

17th. The fluctuations of the barometer are generally greater in the 
eastern than in the western parts of the United States. 

]8th. In the northern parts of the United States,, the wind, in great 
storms, generally sets in from the north of east, and terminates from the 
north of west. 

19th. In the southern parts of the United States the wind generally sets 
in from the south of east, and terminates from the south of west. 

20th. During the passage of storms the wind generally changes fronj 
the eastward to the westward by the south, especially in the southern parts 
of the United States. 

The importance o^ verifying, modifying, or refuting these generaliza- 
tions; will appear more fully by a consideration of the following theory ;^ 



i 



35 

which first led to the adoption of the plan of laying down the phenomena 
of storms on maps, as here recommended to you : 

1st. When the air near the surface of the earth in a particular locahty 
acquires a higher temperature or a higher dew point than that of surround- 
ing regions, it will ascend, on account of a less specific gravity — perpen- 
dicularly if there is a caim. 

2d. As it ascends it comes under less pressure and expands, and be- 
comes colder by expansion, about one degree and a quarter ior each hun- 
dred yards. 

3cl. The dew-point falls about one quarter of a degree, by the expansion 
of the vapor, for each hiaidred yards; and, therefore, when the ascending 
air rises as many hundred yards as the dew-point is below the temperature 
of the air at the surface of the earth in degrees of Fahrenheit, the cold of 
expansion of the air will begin to condense the vapor contained in it, and 
thus form cloud. 

4th. As soon as the vapor begins to condense into cloud, the latent 
caloric will begin to be evolved, which will diminish the cooling effect of 
its expansion in its further ascent, sometimes a little more and sometimes 
a little less than one-half, according as the dew-point is above or below 
70° of Fahrenheit. 

5th. When the air has ascended high enough to have condensed by 
the cold of expansion, from diminished pressure, one-hundredth of its 
weight of vapor, its temperature will be about 48° warmer from the evolu- 
tion of the latent caloric than it would be by going up to the same height 
without vapor in it, and will then be about 48° warmer than the air around 
the cloud at the same elevation, and of course about one tenth hghter. 

6th. The air in the cloud being thus specifically much lighter than the 
surrounding air, will ascend, and, in ascending, spread out in all direc- 
tions above, overlapping the air of surrounding regions, and thus causing 
the barometer to rise all round the cloud to a distance proportional to the 
magnitude of the cloud. 

7th. Whilst the barometer is rising all round the cloud from the in- 
creasing weight of the air, it will fall under the central regions of the cloud 
in proportion to the quantity of air spreading out above. 

8th. The air near the surface of the earth will now rush in on all sides 
from the regions around the cloud, where the barometer stands high, to- 
wards the central regions, where the barometer stands low, with a volocity 
proportional to the square root of the difference of pressure. 

9th. The air thus rushing in under the cloud on all sides will ascend, 
and carry up its vapor with it, and will condense it into cloud by the cold 



36 

of expansion from diminished pressure, as before, and thus the process of 
cloud-forming will be continued. 

lOth. As the principal part of this upmoving current of air is in the upper 
regions of the atmosphere, which move all the year, over the United States, 
from west to east, the cloud, with its whole column of light air, must also 
move in the same direction. 

" Dr. Hare has turned his attention to the electrical phenomena which 
■ accompanies the more violent exhibitions of the storm when it assumes 
the form of a tornado. He agrees with Mr. Espy in opinion as to in- 
ward and upward direction of the wind towards the middle of the storm, 
but differs from him with respect to the cause of the current. He proposes 
a definite theory of the phenomena of the tornado, founded on well-known 
laws of electrical action, combined with facts of observation. It has been 
fully established by experiment in different parts of the earth that there is 
an accumulation of positive electricity in the upper regions of the atmo- 
sphere, that the surface of the earth relative to the lower stratum of air is 
slightly negative, and that space void of air may be considered an electrical 
conductor. From these facts Dr. Hare infers that the surface of the 
earth, the surrounding atmosphere, and the space immediately around 
• and exterior to the atmospliere, form three concentric spheres, of which the 
outer and inner are constantly charged with opposite electricity. The 
arrangement is, therefore, precisely that of a charged leyden jar, of which 
the exterior sphere is analogous to the outer coating, the surface of the earth 
to the inner, and the intervening atmosphere to the non-conducting glass. 
The clouds are insulated conductors floating between the two coatings, and 
therefore liable to be variously charged by induction as their position rela- 
tive to each other and the two coatings is varied. In some cases the ar- 
rangement may be such as to form a series of steps of intermediate con- 
ductors, each electrified by induction, so as to produce a violent ascending 
current ox convective discharge from the surface of the earth upwards. 

'' The theories of Redfield, Espy, and Hare may not be found incompati- 
ble in all points; and whatever may be the future slate of our knowledge 
- relative to them, they point to definite objects of inquiry, which cannot 
fail to reward proper observation with a rich harvest of important results." 

The idea occurred to me that more might be learned from a complete 
analysis of a single storm, than from a partial analysis of several storms; 
•and that any storm of strongly marked characteristics, if fully investi- 
gated., must p'ove a complete cxperime.ntum crucis, at least between 
the theories of Messrs. Redfield and Espy. I accordingly selected the 
storm of December 20, 1836, for a thorough examination. I obtained 



37 

barometric observations from 27 different stations within the United States 
and the neighboring British possessions. I also obtained meteorological 
journals, not containing barometric observations, from 28 military posts, 
from 42 academies in the State of New York, and from five other stations; 
making 102 in all, besides several stations beyond the probable limits of 
the storm. 

In analyzing these materials, the barometric observations were all graphi. 
caily represented by curves, showing the fall and rise of the barometer, 
with the time of its minimum height. Then joining by a line all those 
places where the minimum of the barometer occurred at tlie same instant, 
we are furnished with the means of measuring the rate of progress of the 
great atmospheric wave. On the southern border of the United States, this 
velocity varied from 17 to 29 statute miles per hour; and on the northern 
border from 17 to 37 miles. The leading characteristics of this storm were 
as follows: After a clear and cold interval, with barometer high, the wind 
commenced blowing from the south. The barometer fell rapidly; the 
tliermometer rose; rain descended in abundance. The wind veered sud- 
denly to northwest, and blew with great violence. The rain was succeeded 
by hail or snow, which continues but a short time. The barometer rises 
rapidly; the thermometer sinks as rapidly. These changes are experienced 
progressively from west to east. 

This storm was not circular. The area of rain and snow was about 
500 miles broad from east to west. Its length from north to south was 
known to be 800 miles, and probably was not less than 1,500. For nearly 
a day before the crisis, the wind blew from the southern quarter, and gen- 
erally for several hours from the southeast. After the minimum of the 
barometer, the wind blew with great violence from nearly the opposite point; 
commonly the northwest. Here was clearly indicated a prevalent tendency 
of the wind towards a central line: but, unfortunately, the observations em- 
braced onlv one-half the area of the storm. The oscillation of the barom- 
eter showed a steady increase from latitude 25° to Quebec. The centre 
of the storm, therefore, could not have been south of Quebec, and north 
of this place we could obtain no observations. 

I was now desirous of investigating a storm of marked characteristics 
which could be entirelij surrounded, so that more of its features would 
need to be supplied by conjecture. Two storms which occurred in Febru- 
ary, 1842, appeared tolerably well suited to my purpose, and were selected 
for a new investigation. Great pains were taken to collect materials from 
every part of the United States. I succeeded in obtaining barometric ob- 
servations from 64 different stations. I also procured registers, without 
barometric observations, from 41 military posts, and 22 other stations, ma- 



38 

king 127 in all, not including registers from several stations too remote lo 
be of any service in the proposed investigation. 

I commenced the analysis of the storm of February 1-5, by following 
the same course I had pursued with the storm of 183(3, viz: representing 
the barometric observations by curves which should exhibit the fall and 
rise of the mercury, with the time of minimum height; and from the time 
of minima I proposed to deduce the progress of the storm. But I was 
disappointed in my expectations. I did not obtain such a uniform rate of 
Progress as I had anticipated. After some time I perceived that my observa- 
tions embraced two centres of disturbance; that I had got at least two 
storms in close juxtaposition, and interfering with each other. I then dis- 
covered that my lines of barometric mininnmi represented relations which 
were extremely complex, and were not well adapted to my purpose, which 
was the development of physical causes. 1 therefore sought for some mode 
of graphically representing the observations which should be founded upon 
simple relations, and be better adapted to suggest the causes of the phenom- 
ena. I at last settled upon a method which appears to me well suited to this 
purpose, and substituted for lines oi minimum, pressure, lines of equal pres- 
sure. Having determined, as well as I was able, the mean height of the 
barometer at each station, I compared each observation with the mean. I 
then drew a line upon a map of the United States, passing through all 
those places where the barometer stood at its mean height. This line 
may be called the line of mean pressure. I then drew a line through all 
the places where the barometer stood 2 inches above the mean, and another 
for 4 inches above the mean. So, also, I drew a line through all the places 
where the barometer stood 2 inches below the mean ; another for 4 inches be. 
low; and others for 6 inches, 8 inches, and 100 inches below the mean height. 
These lines ncust, from the nature of the case, be continuous curves; and 
the centre of these curves must be a point of maximum or minimum 
pressure. Near the middle of a great storm we find a point of minimum 
pressure— that is, the centre of a vortex; and the lines of equal pressure 
will indicate at a glance whatever connexion there may be between the 
weight of the air and the direction of the wind. 

Upon a similar principle, all the observations of the thermometer were 
graphically represented upon the same chart. A line joining all those 
places where the thermometer stands at its mean height for the given hour 
and month is marked zero, and may be called the line of mean tempera- 
ture. Another line joins all those places where the thermometer is 10° 
above the mean, and others tor 20° and 30° above the mean. So, also, 
lines are drawn for 10° and 20° below the mean temperature. There are 
also continuous lines surrounding a point of maximum or minimum ther- 



39 

mometnc disturbance; not points of maximum or minimtim temperature 
absolutely, for we only regard the deviation from the mean temperature of 
the place for the given hour and month. These barometric and ther- 
mometric curves exhibit some conformity to each other, but are far from 
being identical. The direction of the \vind is represented by arrows, and 
its force is indicated, so far as convenient, by their length.* 

Other phenomena are now indicated by colors. Those regions where 
the sky was unclouded, or where the cloudiness was less than one- half, 
are colored blue; those where the sky was entirely overcast, or the cloudi- 
ness exceeded one-half, but without rain or snow, are colored brown. 
Those regions upon which snow is falling, are colored green ; and those 
where rain is foiling, are colored yellow. Thus, nearly every important 
circumstance of a storm is presented to the eye at a single glance. All 
these particulars will be understood from the two accompanying charts, 
illustrating the progress of the storm of February 16, 1842. 

In both the storms of February, 1842, after they had acquired consider- 
able violence, there was a prevalent motion of the winds inward, with a 
tendency to circulate around the centre, in a direction contrary to the sun's 
motion. The motion of the wind, therefore, was neither wholly centrip- 
etal nor wholly rotary, but a combination of the two. As long as the 
wind was moderate, neither of these tendencies was ciearly marked, and 
there were numerous perplexing anomalies, probably occasioned in many 
instances by the inequalities of the earth's surface. The storm of Febru- 
ary 16 travelled in one day 560 miles in a direction N. 53° E., making its 
velocity 23 miles per hour. The storm of February 1-5 remained for 
two days nearly stationary, and then travelled N. 62° E. at the rate of 36 
miles per hour. On the whole, then, we may conclude that when storms 
are violent, and there is a great depression of the barometer, the direction 
of the wind presents considerable regularity, being spirally inward towards 
the centre of the storm; but when the winds are moderate, which is the case 
of most frequent occurrence, this tendency is very fully developed, and 
the subject demands more particular investigation. 

III. I now proceed to inquire what encouragement there is to a further 
prosecution of meteorological researches. 

In all our investigations respecting natural phenomena we assume that 
the operations of nature are subject to laws, and that these laws are uni- 
form in their operation. A law of nature knows no exceptions. There 
is no place for science except upon this basis. Are storms subject to laws, 
and are these laws invariable? Such a question may appear almost like 

*For an account of the method employed by Mr. Espy in representing the phases of storms, 
see his communication, appendix No. 3. 



40 

trifling, and yet many argue as if they had but feeble faith in these princi- 
ples. It is presumed that no philosopher will seriously question them; but 
it may be said that these laws are so complex that they can never be dis- 
covered. What right have we to make such an assumption? Have not 
the laws of nature been actually discovered in many cases in which they 
appear equally complex? How long is it since comets were believed 
to rush through the planetary system in defiance of all lav/; or if subject 
to law, then a law of such complexity that all attempt to discover it seemed 
hopeless ? Now, these laws appear so simple that we wander they were 
not sooner discovered. All the laws of nature appear complex while they 
remain unknown; but when once discovered, we are surprised at their sim- 
plicity. Why should storms form an exception to this rule? Does the 
past history of meteorological investigations justify such a conclusion? 
Have our researches been rewarded with no success? Far otherwise. 
During the brief period that meteorology has been cultivated we have ar- 
rived at many important generalizations, which, if not entitled to the name 
of laws of nature, afford the strongest assurance that such laws exist, and 
that we are on the eve of their discovery. We have discovered that the great 
storms of the United States travel nearly from west to east. No instance 
has yet been found in which a violent storm in these latitudes has travelled 
from east to west, although some great rain storms have remained nearly 
stationary for a day or two. Violent storms usually travel at the rate of 
about 25 miles per hour, although this velocity has been observed to rise 
as high as 40 miles. These storms are of various dimensions. While 
summer showers may cover an area of but a few miles, winter storms some- 
times have a diameter of 1,000 miles and upwards. The duration of a 
storm at any place depends upon its extent, and upon the velocity of its 
progress. If the diameter of a storm is. 500 miles, and its progress 25 
miles per hour, its duration at a place situated in the centre of the track 
will be 20 hours, and less for places out of the centre. Hence we niay 
form some estimate of the superficial extent of a storm from its duration at 
any place. The direction of the wind is generally inward towards the 
area of rain, and in violent storms there is a tendency to rotation about a 
vertical axis. Over a rugged country there are so many obstacles to ihe 
wind's progress, that observations at the surface of the earth present a great 
many anomalies; but at sea there are no such obstacles, and the observa- 
tions of the wind exhibit a greater uniformity and simplicity. The ba- 
rometer falls under the first half of the storm, and rises as the storm re- 
cedes; the centre of the storm coinciding nearly with the greatest depres- 
sion of the barometer. The passage of this centre is marked by a sudden 



41 

change of wind to a point of the compass nearly opposite to that from 
which it had previously been blowing. 

The preceding propositions are deductions from a large number of par- 
ticular cases which have been investigated. If any one of these proposi- 
tions requires some modification, the fact will be disclosed by a contin- 
uance of the same system of observations. This is a legitimate subject of 
investigation. Further observations will either prove or disprove these 
propositions. Some of them may require a little modification^ although it 
is believed they are all substantially true. 

We are justified, then, in inferring that storms are subject to laws; that 
these laws are uniform in their operation, and that they may be discovered. 
We have already made important progress in this discovery, and we are 
persuaded that we have only to follow up the same methods of investiga- 
tion, and our labor will be rewarded with more brilliant discoveries. The 
results of such knowledge are too important to be overlooked. When we 
have fully learned the laws of storms, we shall be able to pi'edici them. 
This attainment is of the highest practical importance. If the navigator 
can anticipate the approach of a storm by 24 hours, this interval will be 
quite sufficient to place him beyond the reach of its fury; and although 
the landsman could not remove his habitation from the approaching torna- 
do, he might withdraw his family and the most valuable of his effects to 
a place of security. 

When the magnetic telegraph is extended from New York to New Or- 
leans and St. Louis, it may be made subservient to the protection of our 
commerce, even in the present imperfect state of our knowledge of storms. 
•The severe winter storms which desolate the Atlantic coast come from the 
valley of the Mississippi, and require about 24 hours to travel from St. 
Louis to New York. The approach of a dangerous storm might therefore 
be telegraphed at New York hours before its arrival, while the sky was 
yet unclouded and the wind propitious, in season to save a fleet of ships 
from putting to sea, to be engulphed in the bottomless deep. The science 
of meteorology is already sufficiently advanced to render important service 
to commerce, if practical navigators would but heed the indications of the 
barometer, and make themselves familiar with the principles which obser- 
vation has established. 

It is, then, not without reason that we expect to be able to predict an ap- 
proaching storm, long enough in advance to render such knowledge of the 
highest importance; but it may admit of more serious question, whether 
we shall ever be able to predict the general character of a season with suffi- 
cient precision to be of any value to the farmer. But why should we des- 
pair of ultimately attaining even this result ? If one season is remarkable for 
6 



42 

its cold, and another for its heat, is there no reason for it ? Is there not some 
cause acting upon a grand scale to bring about this result? Is there no 
cause which brings an excess of winds from the north, or an excess from 
the south — which brings an unusual amount of precipitation, or an extra- 
ordinary degree of cloudiness? And cannot this cause be discovered? 
This discovery may require the exercise of patience — it may require a 
long continued series of observations ; but to assume that a principle can- 
not be discovered, is unphilosophical. This is a legitimate subject of in- 
vestigation, and it is a field in which the laborer cannot fail of reaping his 
reward. We only need adequate observations — observations sufficiently 
precise, and upon a scale of proper extent. We conclude, then, that there 
is the highest encouragement to the prosecution of meteorological inqui- 
ries — that by continuing our researches we may hope to arrive at general 
laws, and that a knowledge of these laws cannot fail to contribute to the 
wealth and happiness of mankind. 
I proceed, therefore, to inquire — 

IV. Upon what plan the observations should be conducted to secure the 
object proposed. 

Violent winter storms appear most suitable for investigation, because 
they are of longer duration, and their features are more strongly marked. 
The oscillation of the barometer affords the surest criterion for identifying 
a storm in its progress from day to day; and these oscillations are greatest 
in winter. 

1. How large an area should be covered by our observations, to enable 
us to investigate advantageously the phenomena of our winter storms? 

Our observations ought plainly to embrace the entire region of the 
storm, and even extend somewhat beyond its margin, for in no other way 
could we be sure that we had found its limits. Now, the great storms 
which are experienced between the parallels of 40 "and 45 degrees are fre- 
quently felt as far south as latitude 30'^, and sometimes to 25°, South of 
this line, the oscillations of the barometer, except in a few rare instances, 
are quite small; and it is probable that the limiting parallel of the trade 
winds forms a dividing line between the ordinary storms of the torrid and 
temperate zones. We should therefore extend our system of observations 
to the southern margin of the United States. The northern limit of our 
ordinary winter storms remains unknown. In the storm of December 21, 
1836, the oscillation of the barometer increased uninterruptedly with the 
latitude as far as the most northerly station, Quebec. Only the southern 
half of the storm was included within the United States. This storm was 
probably experienced as far northward as to the northern shore of Hudson's 
bay. We should therefore extend our system of observations to the north- 



43 

em margin of the United States; and to render our system complete, re- 
quires the co-operation of the British government to extend the observa- 
tions to the entire region of Hudson's bay. 

If we merely wished to embrace in our observations the area of a storm 
for a single hour, then the interval between the Mississippi and the Atlan- 
tic would ordinarily be sufficient. But we could not thus expect to dis- 
cover the origin of a storm. We must trace it in its progress from its com- 
mencement to its greatest violence, and thence to its decline. By observing 
under what circitinstances it takes its rise, we may hope to be able to dis- 
cover the cause of its activity. We should therefore aim to trace every 
storm from its origin to its close. At the ordinary rate of progress a great 
storm would travel from the Rocky mountains to the Atlantic in two days. 
What influence this range of mountains may have upon our storms is un- 
known, except from conjecture. We cannot suppose that a storm could 
travel from the Pacific to the Atlantic without experiencing some modifi- 
cation in passing over a range of mountains rising into the region of per- 
petual snow. What this modification is, can be determined by corres- 
ponding observations on both sides of the mountain. I therefore conclude 
that it is important to embrace in our system of observations the entire 
continent from the Pacific to the Atlantic, and from the gulf of Mexico to 
the northern shore of Hudson's bay. 

2. At what distance from each other should stations of observation be 
selected ? 

If we were investigating the phenomena of a summer shower, it would 
be indispensable to have stations at very short distances from each other; 
but in winter storms this is less important. I consider it, however, desira- 
ble to have stations at intervals of fifty miles from each other, and such 
might probably be obtained in the more thickly settled parts of the United 
States. In other parts of the country this would be impracticable; but I 
would strive to obtain at least one station for every hundred miles square. 
At this rate we should need about three hundred observers for the United 
States. It is not doubted that this number might be obtained; indeed, we 
have well nigh this number already, but, unfortunately, they are very une- 
qually scattered over the country. 

3. What materials have we to depend upon, and what is wanting to 
complete the plan of one observer to every hundred miles square ? 

We have the government observations at the military posts, now 57 in 
number. We have observations from 41 academies in the State of New 
York, and 2-5 stations in Pennsylvania. Then we have borometric obser- 
vations from about 40 other individuals scattered promiscuously over the 
country; and thermometric observations from about 20 others. There is, 



44 

besides, a large number of those who have meteorological instruments, 
which they occasionally consult, but do not feel sufficient interest in the 
subject to keep a systematic journah If a grand meteorological' effort were 
made, with a prospect of yielding important results, probably most of 
those persons might be pressed temporarily into the service. New Eng- 
land is pretty well manned with observers, except in the northern part, 
where three or four more are greatly needed . Probably, if instruments could 
b3 furnished without expense, volunteers might be found to make the obser- 
vations. New York and Pennsylvania are fully organized ; but throughout 
the remainder of the United States the stations are few and scattered. 
Excluding Oregon and the Indian territory, the remaining States embrace 
about a million and a half square miles, and at our lowest estimate would 
require about 150 observers. We have 50' observers already in the field, 
leaving 100 to be provided for. Row is this deficiency to be supplied ? 
If our government would direct meteorological observations to be made at 
the principal light-houses along out coast and the chain of the great lakes, 
it would leave only the interior of the country to be provided for,- and if 
instruments could be furnished without expense, volunteers might proba- 
bly be found to take the observations at most of the remaining stations. 

To extend this system of observations further westward must be attend- 
ed with serious difficulties. We already have registers kept at most of the 
military posts in the Indian country; and as new posts are established, it 
is presumed that the govenmient will direct them to be improved for obser- 
vations. We may thus hope ere long to obtain a line of stations reaching 
to the mouth of the Columbia river; and as settlements extend, observa- 
tions will multiply on the other side of the Rocky mountains. On the 
whole, then, it is believed we might occupy the whole United States front 
its northern to its southern lx)rder, and from the Atlantic to the Indian 
territory, beyond the Mississippi, with an army of meteorologists sufficiently 
numerous to enable us to investigate advantageously the phenomena of our 
great storms, provided instnnnents could be furnished gratuitously for about 
100 stations; and, moreover, we might probably have a line of observers 
at unequal intervals, reaching even to the Pacific ocean. The expense of 
100 sets of meteorological instruments may be estimated at- $3,000. 

It is believed that the Smithsonian Institution might undertake to furnish 
these instruments and organize a grand system of meteorological observa- 
tions upon this continent, in perfect harmonj' with the views of James 
Smithson. Mr. Smithson bequeathed his property, in trust, to this coun- 
try, /or the increase Mid diffusion of knowledge among men. It is believed 
that by carrying out the plan now suggested, knowledge would be in- 
creased and diffused, and it would be that kind of knowledge which 



45 

would contribute to the comfort and happiness of society^ as much a& 
perhaps any other which can be named. 

4. Specific plan of operations proposed. 

The following is proposed for the consideration of the Regents of the* 
Smithsonian Institution, as the outline of a grand meteorological cam- 
paign. 

Let a meteorological department of the institution be organized, under 
the direction of the Secretary, with a suitable assistant. Let a united effort 
be made to secure for a limited period, and to the greatest possible extent , 
the cooperation of the general government, the several State governments ^ 
scientific societies, and the friends of science throughout the country. Let 
the general government be requested to give the greatest possible exten- 
sion to their system of observations at the military posts, and to authorize 
similar observations to be made at certain lighthouses, so far as may be 
necessary to complete a line of stations at intervals of 100 miles along the 
whole extent of our coast, and the chain of the northern lakes. Let the 
regents of the University of the State of New York be requested to reor- 
ganize the system of observations in that State, by furnishing barometers 
to about 20 of their academies, and directing the observations to be report- 
ed regularly to Washington. Let the committee having charge of the 
observations in Permsylvania be requested to adopt the same plan of ob- 
servations which shall be agreed upon for the other States, and report regu- 
larly to Washington. Let application te made to the legislatures of each 
of the other States, inviting them to co-operate in this noble scheme^ 
by emulating the examples of New York and Pennsylvania. Let the 
scientific societies throughout the United States be appealed to, to assist in 
organizing an efficient corps of observers, each in its appropriate sphere; 
and let individual observers throughout the country be requested to unite 
their efforts in one uniform and systematic plan of operations. Let them 
be requested to report their equipment of instruments, and state whether 
they will undertake to provide whatever may be wanting, at their own ex- 
pense. I*et then the entke country be divided into sections not exceed- 
ing 100 miles square; and in each section not already provided for, let au 
observer be sought out, who shall volunteer to make the observations if 
instruments are furnished him. Let then the Smithsonian Institution 
assume the burden of furnishing the necessary instruments to those who 
are unable to do it themselves. It is estimated that the sura required for 
this purpose would not exceed three thousand dollars. Let a form of ob- 
servations be provided, and instructions to all the observers, who shall re- 
port at least quarterly to the Secretary at Washington. Let it be the duty 
of the meteorologist to take charge of the observations, to discuss and ana- 
lyze them, and endeavor to deduce from them the laws of storms. Let 



46 

these investigations be published, in as much detail as may be thought de- 
manded by the claims of science, and let a copy of whatever may he pub- 
lished be forwarded to each observer, in order that he may be stimulated 
in his work by finding that his labor is not wholly in vain. 

Finally, to give to this system its greatest efficiency, the co operation of 
the British government and of the Hudson's Bay Company is absolutely 
indispensable. The greater part of our severe storms extend far beyond 
the limits of the United States on the north. Observations confined to the 
United States will therefore seldom give us the entire area of a storm, and 
frequently only half of it. The remaining half must then be supplied by 
conjecture. This would leave all our investigations in an unfinished and 
unsatisfactory state. We want a line of stations through Canada, along 
the shores of Hudson's bay, to the farthest outpost of civilization. At 
every government station a meteorological journal might doubtless be kept: 
and it is confidently believed that if the Smithsonian Institution would 
embark in earnest in a grand meteorological crusade, the British govern- 
ment would cheerfully contribute its efficient co operation. 

A system of observations like that here contemplated, if faithfully pros- 
ecuted for one year, would well nigh exhaust the subject. The storms of 
each year are probably but a repetition of those of the preceding. Never- 
theless, it would be unsafe to calculate upon concluding the war after a 
single year's campaign. Experience in similar cases has shown that it 
requires considerable time to organize so large a plan of operations, and 
the system would not, probably, attain its greatest efficiency the first year. 
It would be unwise, therefore^ to calculate upon a less period of operations 
than three years. But it is believed that in this period, results would 
be developed which would more than repay all the expense of time and 
money incurred; while, upon the existing scale of operations, the progress 
of discovery must be slow and uncertain. In order to enable us to inves- 
tigate advantageously the phenomena of a single storm, we must have 
simultaneous observations from a vast number of stations. Observations 
from a few stations, though continued to the end of time, will not accom- 
plish the same object. How, then, can the Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution more faithfully carry out the views of its benevolent founder, 
than by vigorously prosecuting these researches to their completion? How 
can they contribute more directly and powerfully to the prosperity of our 
commerce; and, through commerce, add to the wealth and happiness of 
the whole country? 

I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 



ELI AS LOOMIS. 



Joseph Henry, LL. D., 

Secretary Smithsonian histitution. 



47 



APPENDIX No. 3. 

Extract from a communication from Professor Espy on the subject of 

Meteorology . 

My dear sir: I am much pleased to learn from your letter that the Re- 
gents of the Smithsonian Institution would probably make an appropria- 
tion for the purpose of establishing a series of observations " to solve, if 
possible, the problem of American storms." I am of opinion that no sub- 
ject of science is more worthy of the attention of the institution; and in 
answer to your request that I should furnish you with suggestions on the 
subject, I refer you, in the first place, to my work entitled " Philosophy 
of Storms," from page 77 to page 172, for a full development of the plan 
adopted twelve years ago of investigating the phases of storms, by the joint 
committee of the American Philosophical Society and the Franklin Insti- 
tute, of the State of Pennsylvania. 

The plan then suggested, and in part carried out, was adopted in the 
investigation of the phases of storms during the five years in which I was 
in the service of the government. In my '' circular to the friends of 
science," in which I invited all persons in the United States keeping 
journals of the weather to send them to the office of the Surgeon General, 
Washington, I announced my intention to lay down on skeleton maps of 
the United States, by appropriate symbols, all the most important phases 
of great storms which might come within the range of our simultaneous 
observations ; and thus it was hoped we should be able to determine the 
shajje and size of all storms; whether they are round or oblong; and if ob- 
long, whether they move sideforemost or endforeniost , or obliquely; and to 
ascertain their velocity and direction in all the different seasons of the 
year; the course of the wind in and beyond the borders of the storm; the 
fluctuacion of the barometer and change of temperature which generally 
accompany storms, and the extent to which their influence is felt beyond 
their borders. 

Having obtained observations from a wide extended correspondence, I 
laid down the phases of the storms on maps, as presented in my first re- 
port, and I have continued the same plan in my second report, now ready 
to be printed. In the investigation of the materials of the second report, 
comprising the observations of three years and three-quarters, I have dis- 
covered no facts contradictory to the generalizations deduced from the 
winter storms of three months embraced in the second report. I consider 
it of the highest interest, by an extended series of observations, which I 
hope the Smithsonian Institution will cause to be made over a much wider 



48 

territory than my observation embraced, to verify, or, if necessary, modify 
these generalizations, and also to investigate the laws of summer storms, 
which 1 fear cannot be done without much more numerous observers than 
i was able to procure.* 

^JP ^ 'P ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 

The elements of the theory I have given you are the same as those pre- 
sented in my work on storms; and tbough I have demonstrated them ap- 
proximately, and have no doubt of their general accuracy, yet I am con- 
vinced that nothing will establish the truth on this subject in such a man- 
ner as to cany conviction to every mind but a series of wide extended 
simultaneous obsei'vations, continued for a long time, by numerous observ- 
€rs. Such a series I hope is now about to be made. 

It would be inappropriate to extend this communication to a greater 
length; but I will explain to you at another time some experiments con- 
nected with meteorology, which I wish to see performed, on the electricity 
of steam, and on the specific caloric o^ xospheric air and other gases, 
with the aid of my nephelescope, and on the law of cooling of air in great 
expansions of air by diminished pressure. 

I remain, very respectfully, yours, (fcc, 

JAMES P. ESPY. 

Prof. J. Henry, 

Secretary SmitJisonian Institution. 



'The generalizations and theory of Mr. Espy are given in the preceding report of Professor 
Loomie, pa^ 33. 



' <l 



30th Congress, [SENATE.] Miscella.veous. 

1st Session. No. 23. 



REPORT 



OF THE 



BOARD Ox^ REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONI/LN INSTITUTION 



SHOWING 



The operations, expenditures j and condition of the Institution. 



January 6, 1S48. 
Ordered to be printed. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States : 

In obedience to the act of Congress "^^to estabhsh the Smithsonian In- 
■stitution, for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men;" the 
Board of Regents herewith submit to Congress a report of the operations, 
expenditures; and condition of the institution, "with sundry acconnany- 
ing documents. 

These documents embrace a complete record as well of the operations 
of the institution since the date of the last annual report to Congress, as 
of its expenditures, and of its present condition. 

They are as follows: 

No. 1. Report of the building committee to the Board of Regents, 
accompanied by a copy of their journal from the date of the appointment 
of the committee to the 1st December, 1847. 

No. 2. Copy of the journal of the building committee, referred to in 
the foregoing. 

No. 3. Report of the Executive Committee, containing a statement of 
the expenditures of the institution from the organization of the institu- 
tion to the 1st December, 1847. 

No. 4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents, from the date of the last 
annual report to the 22d of December, 1847. 

No. 5. Report of the Executive Committee to the Board of Regents, 
dated December 15, 1847, embodying a statement of the present condi- 
tion of the funds of the institution, and the proposed scale of annual ex- 
penditure until the completion of the building. 

No, 6. Report of the Secretary of the institution to tiie Board of Re- 
gents, containing a programme of organization of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, presented to the board December 8, 1847. 

Document No. 1 will be found to contain a condensed statement of the 
proceedings of the building committee, compiled from their journal; by 
"vvhich it will be seen, that in the discharge of their duty they had occa- 
sion to collect, and record, a variety of information of practical value, 
especially on the subject of building-materials. The result, in their own 
case, has b een, that they have obtained for the institution building a free- 
Tippin & Streeper, printers. 



1^ 



[23] 2 

stone superior, both in durability and appearance, to any heretofore used 
in the pubhc buildings of this city, yet costing less than one-half as much 
as that employed in the erection of the Capitol, Executive mansion. Treas- 
ury building, and Patent Office. Attention is respectfully invited to these 
results, as they can hardly fail to be important to the public service if the 
general government, at any time hereafter, should add to the number of its 
buildings in this metropolis. 

Document No. 2 gives in minute detail the results above referred to. 
It contains reports from an experienced geologist, on the marble and granite 
quarries of Maryland; on the Aquia creek quarries, which have hitherto 
furnished the material for the principal structures in this city; and on the 
freestone quarries of the upper Potomac, in the vicinity of Seneca creek, 
whence has been drawn the iilac-gray freestone employed by the commit- 
tee, for the institution building. It contains also a report, by a chemist of 
this city, of the results of certain experiments which the committee caused 
to be instituted, to determine the durability of various building materials 
when exposed to the action of the weather. 

This document contains, further, a copy of the contract made for the 
erection of the institution building, together with the specifications of the 
same. It will be perceived that the contract was taken at a rate less, by 
about thirty-seven thousand dollars, than the amount set apart by the 
board, for the erection of the building. 

In this document will also be found several other contracts made by the 
committee; among them, one with Messrs. Wiley <fc Putnam, publishers 
of New York, for the publication of a brief treatise on public architecture, 
to be illustrated with plans and designs of the institution building, and to 
contain the result of a series of experiments which have been set on foot 
by the institution, to determine the economical value of the principal 
building materials throughout the United States. 

It also contains an address by the Chancellor of the institution, deliv- 
ered on occasion of laying the corner stone of the building; and embracing 
a succinct view of the objects and the general proceedings of the institution, 
together with some details touching the style and dimensions of the build- 
ing, then about to be commenced. 

Document No. 3 gives a table of the expenditures of the institution, 
under the various heads, since its commencement. The entire expendi- 
ture is $37,670; of which about two-thirds were spent for the building and 
incidentals therewith connected, and one-third for other objects: among the 
latter, upwards of two thousand dollars for books and philosophical appa- 
ratus; about two thousand dollars for salaries of officers; thirteen hundred 
for premiums for designs for the institution building; and ,'|J53,S76 for ex- 
penses of the board and its committees. This last item has been consid- 
erably swelled in consequence of the provision, in the act organizing the 
institution, that its first meeting should be in September, when Congress 
was not in session, and when, consequently, the travelling and other ex- 
penses of all its members, fifteen in number, and some residing at a great 
distance, had to be paid; those of two members only excepted, who were 
residents of the city. To prevent the recurrence of such expense, the 
board, as will be seen by reference to its journal, has arranged its regular 
meetings to take place during the session of Congress, restricting them to 
one only each year; and as at that time all the members of the board, 
except four, become residents of the city, incurring no additional expense 



3 [23] 

by attending to their duty as Regents, and therefore charging to the insti- 
tution no expenses, the annual expense of the board will hereafter be very 
small compared to what it has been : it cannot reasonably be estimated be- 
yond eight hundred or one thousand dollars annually. 

This item of expenditure has also been increased by the necessary 
expenses of a committee appointed to visit and report upon public struc- 
tures in the principal cities of the Union, and to confer with architects, with 
a view to the selection of convenient plans, based upon the act of Congress, 
and of a suitable style of architecture. It is believed, that when the 
institution building shall be completed, Congress and the public will be 
satisfied with the result of these labors. 

Some expense will annually be incurred by the building committee, 
until the completion of their task. But, as two of the members of the 
committee are residents of Washington, that expense will not be large; 
and will, it is believed, be repaid by the amount of information collected 
and recorded by them, and by the volume now preparing for publication. 

Document No. ^ is a record of all the important proceedings of the 
Board of Regents, extracted from their journal, and continued from the 
close of their proceedings, as given in the last report of the board to Con- 
gress, down to the end of their last meeting. There will be found, among 
other resolutions passed by the board, one making appropriations for the 
current expenses of the institution throughout the coming year; also, the 
action of the board upon the series of resolutions establishing a scale of 
expenditure for the next four years. 

Documevt No. 5 is the report of the Executive Committee, in which is 
proposed to the board a plan of financial operations, and scale of expenditure, 
for four years from and after the 19th of March next — that is, during the 
last four )^ears of the building contract; according to which plan, the sum 
of fifteen thousand dollars may annually, throughout that term, be appro- 
priated for the current expenses of the institution; and the building may 
be completed and furnished, and the grounds laid out and fenced, without 
withdrawing from the amount of so-called accumulated interest — to wit : 
$242,129, specially made appUcable by Congress to the building — more 
than S102,000, and thus leaving $140,000 of that sum to be added to the 
original principal or bequest, as a permanent investment. 

Document No. 6 is the first report of the Secretary of the institution. The 
programme of the organization, given therein, embraces as well the general 
considerations which iiave served as a guide in adopting that organiza- 
tion, as the details both of the plan to increase and of the plan to diffuse 
knowledge. The report of the Secretary elucidates and explains the pro- 
gramme, and also contains a statement of the progress made in the pre- 
paration of the first volume of the Transactions of the institution; in the 
purchase of apparatus, the preparation for original researches, with sugges- 
tions as to the operations of the next year, &c., &c. 

The board respectfully express the hope that Congress will cause to be 
published, along with this report, these several documents. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

G. M. DALLAS, 
Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution. 
JOSEPH HENRY, 

December 31, 1847. Secretary. 

I* 



[ 23 ] 



No. 1. 
Report of the Building Committee of tJie SmitJisonian Institution. 

The committee submit to the hoard, as a complete record of their pro- 
ceedings from the date of their appointment, on the 5th of February last, 
to the 1st of December current, a copy of their journal. 

By reference to that journal, the board will perceive that the committee, 
in discharge of their duty, were led into a somewhat extended field of 
inquiry, especially as regards building material ; and that they liave been 
enabled to collect, and have duly recorded, a large amount of detailed 
infonriation on this subject essential to their own guidance, but also, they 
believe, important to the public generally, and especially to the government, 
if Congress should decide to erect any other public buildings in tliis city. 
They caused to be examined the various marble, and granite, and freestone 
quarries within a moderate distance of Washington, having been fortunate 
enough to engage the services of a gentleman of practical experience as a 
geologist, and who tendered these services gratuitously, his necessary'- trav- 
elling and other expenses only being paid. 

The examination embraced the chief marble and granite quarries of 
Maryland ; the freestone quarries of Aquia creek, Virginia^ whence the 
material has been drawn for the construction of the Capitol, President's 
house, Treasury building, and other public structures in this city; and the 
freestone quarries of the upper Potomac, chiefly in the vicinity of Seneca 
creek, on the banks of the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, and about twenty- 
three miles from the city. 

The results of this examination, as contained in reports made by the 
geologist, and which will be found spread at large on our journal, were 
briefly these : 

1st. That the marble quarries of Maryland, chiefly in the vicinity of the 
village of Clarksville, about thirteen miles from Baltimore, on the line of 
the Susquehanna railroad, contain two qualities of marble : one fine- grained 
and of beautiful uniform color, approaching the character of statuary 
marble ; the other, of inferior quality, similar to the Sing Sing marble em- 
ployed in New York, in Grace church and other public structures, of a 
somewhat coarse and highly crystalline structure, and known to the quarry- 
men here under the name of ''alum limestone." The former v^'^as confi- 
dently recommended as a building material equal in durability to any in . 
the world; the latter was -pronounced inferior, both in beauty and dura- - 
bility, yet capable of furnishing a very lasting material if the selection was i 
made with care. Being less tough than the finer-grained variety, it was 
thought less suitable for ornaments having bold projections, and somewhat 
liable to chip off where there was much undercutting. 

2d. That the granite quarries of Maryland, in the vicinity of Wood- 
stock, on the line of the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, and about sixteen • 
miles beyond the Relay House, furnish a granite ec^ual to that of Qnincy, 
and not excelled for beauty of appearance, compactness of structure and 
uniformity of color, texture, and composition, by any granite in the United 
States; splitting, also, with remarkable facility, so that on a block twelve 
or fourteen feet in length the face of cleavage may not vary more than a 



5 [ 23 ] 

single inch from a true level; in short, a building material of unsurpassed 
durability and uniformity, and to which, as to the finer-grained marble in 
the Clarksville quarries, no possible objection, except on the score of 
expense, could be found, unless, indeed, it be considered one, that in this 
material the effect of light and shade from projecting surfaces is in a 
measure lost, while in marble and good tinted freestone every shadow is 
sharply marked. 

3d. That the Aquia creek freestone, heretofore used in public buildings 
in Washington, is a material not to be trusted to, being pervaded by dark 
specks of the protoxide and peroxide of iron, which in peroxidating acquire 
ayelloY/ish or reddish color, and having occasional clay holes, such as dis- 
figure the Treasury and the Patent Office. A portion of this freestone was, 
indeed, considered durable and free from material blemish; but the chance 
of actually procuring it free from disfiguring spots and stains was consid- 
ered so uncertain, that it was recommended to refrain from using it in the 
institution building. 

4tli. That the freestone of the upper Potomac, in the vicinity of Seneca 
creek, and found in quarries close to the line of the Chesapeake and Ohio 
canal, is the best and most durable of all the Potomac freestones. 

The lilac-gray variety found in the Bull Run quarry, twenty-three miles 
from Washington, was especially recommended, and pronounced to be 
equal, if not superior, to that supplied for Trinity church, New York, from 
the quarries of New Jersey. 

In regard to this latter material, it was stated that it possessed a quality 
that should especially recommend it to the attention of builders. When 
first quarried it is comparatively soft, working freely before the chisel and 
hammer; but by exposure it gradually indurates, and ultimately acquires 
a toughness and consistency that not only enables it to resist atmospheric 
vicissitudes, but even the most severe mechanical wear and tear. Thus, 
on the tow-path of the aqueduct, near Seneca creek, over which horses and 
mules have been travelling almost daily for upwards of twenty years, this 
freestone was found still unimpaired. Even the corners around which the 
heavy lock-gates swing, showed no signs of chipping or decay; and on the 
perpendicular wall of the acjueduct, where the water is continually oozing 
through the joints and trickling down its face, forming an incrustation of 
carbonate of lime, this freestone was observed, where the calcareous crust 
had scaled off, with the grooves and ridges of the surface still nearly as 
distinct as when the blocks first came from the hands of the stone-mason, 
more than twenty years ago. 

The rare and valuable quality possessed by this freestone, of hardening 
by exposure to the weather, and which may be due to iron in its compo- 
sition, passing from a lower to a higher degree of oxidation, is occasionally 
found in building-stone on the continent of Europe; as, for example, in a 
calcareous freestone which has been excavated for centuries from St. Peter's 
mountain, near Maestrich, in Belgium. It is highly prized wherever found, 
as this peculiarity permits the freestone to be wrought at considerably less 
expense than either granite or marble, and imparts to it a durability increas- 
ing with age. 

Further to test the durability of these various building materials under 
exposure to the vicissitudes of the seasons, specimens of each, and also of 
other building-stones from New York and elsewhere, were handed to a 
gentleman of this city experienced in chemistry, and having a laboratory 



[23 J 6 

at command, and he was requested to subject these to a process recom- 
mended by Brard, a French chemist, and described in the '^Annales de 
Chimie et Physique;" according to AA^hich, the crystallization of the sul- 
phate of soda is substituted for the freezing of water; and thus, by artificial 
means, the action of the elements on these materials — the alternate freezing 
and thawing to which the external component of a building is in this cli- 
mate annually subjected — is in a measure imitated. The result — which, 
however, in consequence of the short time which could be allowed for the 
process, must be considered an approximation only to the truth — is given in 
a report from the gentleman in question. The specimens were reduced to 
inch cubes; and it was found, after four weeks, that a cube of granite had 
lost about one-third of a grain; a cube of the fine-grained marble about one- 
fifth of a grain; a cube of the best quality of the "alum-stone," or coarser- 
grained marble, half a grain to a grain and a half; and a cube of freestone 
from the Patent Office, which, however, was judged not to be a fair average 
specimen of the Aquia creek freestones, lost eighteen grairis and a half. 
Freestone from Trinity church lost from two-thirds of a graiti to about a- 
grain anda Jtalf. The brown Connecticut stone, freely used in New York, 
lost from fourteen to nearly twenty five grains. Coarse-grained New York 
marble, from Mount Pleasant, lost nearly a grain; Nova Scotia coarse- 
grained sandstone about two grains; while Pennsylvania blue limestone 
lost little over a quarter of a grain. 

As to the relative cost of the Maryland granite, Maryland marble, fine- 
grained and coarse grained, Aquia creek freestone and Seneca creek free- 
stone, it was found, from the report of the geologist and from actual ofl'ers 
made to the committee by owners of quarries, and Avhich will be found re- 
corded in the journal of the committee, to be, per cubic foot of dimension 
stone delivered in Washington, as follows: 

1st. For coarse-grained marble with large crystals, commonly called 
"alum- stone," from fifty to sixty cents, according to quality. 

2d. For fine-grained marble, the lowest oifer was seventy cents. 

3d. For granite, forty -six cents. 

4th. For Aquia creek freestone, /o?'^y cents. The material used in the 
public buildings in Washington, in blocks of ordinary size, has cost from 
forty io fifty cents. 

5th. For Seneca freestone, the lilac-gray variety, fi:om Bull Run quarry, 
twenty cents. A contract has been made by a gentleman of Washington, 
not connected with the institution, to have stone from the Seneca creek 
quarries delivered to him in the city at thai price. 

East Chester marble was otfered at seventy five cents. 

The committee ought here to state, that the proposals by owners of 
granite and marble quarries in Maryland to deliver material for our build- 
ing were at a considerably lower rate than they otherwise would have been, 
in consequence of the liberality evinced by the directors of the Baltimore 
and Ohio railroad, and of the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad, towards 
the institution. The chairman of the committee had an interview with 
Mr. McLane and Mr. Howard, the presidents of these railroads, and the 
directors of both companies passed resolutions, that if we decided to use 
Maryland marble or granite, they would transport it at the rate of tico and 
a half cents per ton per mile, instead o^ four cents, the usual charge for 
the transportation of similar materials. As it happened, the committee had 
no occasion to avail themselves of this liberal proposal ; but it doubtless 



1 [ 23 ] 

materially influenced the amount of the bids subsequently put in for the 
erection of the building in marble and granite. 

Such is a brief summary of the measures adopted by the committee, and 
of the information collected by them, and which will be found in detail on 
their journal, on the important subject of b/iilding material. While engaged 
in collecting that information, they caused to be inserted in the city jour- 
nals, advertisements inviting from contractors proposals for the erection of 
the "institution building; the external walls to be of upper Potomac free- 
stone, or of marble, or of granite, or of blue gneiss j and separate proposals 
' were requested in each of these materials. Meanwhile the architect and 
superintendent attended in the office of the institution with specifications, 
ready to give the necessary information to all applicants. 

The day originally set as the last on which bids would be received, was 
the 10th of March; but as the specifications were delayed by the printers 
several days beyond the time appointed by the public advertisement for the 
inspection of bidders, the committee extended the time for receiving bid:^ 
-to the 15th March, 

On the 16th of March the bids were opened, in presence of the building 
committee and of the architect and superintendent. A number of these 
were found to be proposals to deliver materials only, or to execute a small 
portion of the work, as the brick work, alone; the stone cutting at so much 
per foot, &c. These are spread on the jovu'ual of the committee^ and will 
be found to contain much valuable information as to prices. 

The bids to erect the building were found to be fourteen in number, and 
to vary in amount from $196,000 to $318,000 — the lowest being that of 
James Dixon & Co., of Washington, and the estimate being for Seneca 
freestone, laid up in rubble masonry. The bids by the same firm, as given 
in the explanatory correspondence of the same date and in a personal com- 
munication on the ISth March, for ashlar finish, were also the lowest put 
in, namely: 

For marble ashlar - . . . . $228,500 

And for Seneca freestone ashlar ... 205,250 

After a careful examination of the subject, the committee decided, that 
to the particular design as adopted by the board, with its numerous vertical 
lines often closely approaching each other, the finish of regularly coursed 
ashlar was the best suited, and would make a more substantial job than 
broken rubble. 

They concluded also, that, with a complete conviction on their minds of 
the durability of the Seneca freestone, and with a doubt whether it did not 
assort even better with the Lombard style of architecture adopted than 
marble, it was inexpedient to expend twenty three thousand dollars addi- 
tional to obtain the latter material. They informed James Dixon ^fc- Co., 
therefore, that their bid of $205,250 for the erection of the building in 
Seneca stone, finished in coursed ashlar, was accepted. 

The result, your committee think, has proved that their selection of ma- 
terial was a judicious one. 

On inquiry, the committee found that the firm of James Dixon and Co. 
consisted of James Dixon, of Washington, and Gilbert Cameron, of New 
York. The latter gendeman executed a portion of the work on Trinity 
church, and was a contractor on Calvary church, New York. 

A contract was signed by the committee and by Messrs. Dixon and Cam- 
eron on the I9th of March. It will be found, accompanied by the specifi- 



[ 2a ] 8 

cations, which make part of the same, on the journal of the committee. 
It ii^'liides a portion but not the whole of the furniture; the portion inclu- 
ded- however, being the most expensive part of it, and comprehending the 
she-ving cases, desks, drawers, and tables, in the laboratory and apparatus 
roon:) ; the book-cases, large tables and alcove desks, in the library; the glass 
cases in the museum; the seats hi the lecture rooms; the elevators, v/ith 
sheaves and counter- v^'-eights; water closets, completely fitted up; rain- 
water cisterns; and the chairs and table in the Regents' room. Fhies 
for heating and ventilation are provided for, but the expense of heating 
and lighting is not included. Cesspools are included, but no provisions 
fer draining, according to the municipal regulations of the city. 

The foundation walls, under the main central towers, are twelve feet 
thick at bottom, gradually diminishing to five and a half feet at the surface 
of the ground, and are sunk eight feet deep. The foundations of the rear 
central tower, excavated to the same depth, are ten feet, diminishing to 
five feet; of the campanile and octagonal towers also ten feet, diminishing 
to five and six feet deep. The thickness of the walls of the main build- 
ing, above the water-table, is two feet and a half in the first story, and 
two feet in the second, exclusive of buttresses, corbel-courses, and other 
similar external projections, and exclusive, also, of an internal lining wall 
of brick, of the thickness of a single brick, tied at intervals to the wall, 
and intended to plaster to. The "walls of the wings are two feet thick. 
The central towers are three feet and a half thick in the first story, dimin- 
ishing to two feet in the highest story. 

Inverted arches, of hard brick, are turned under all the openings of the 
foundation. Groined arches are turned under the central towers, the cam- 
panile, the octagonal tower, and the tower of the west wing. 

The ashlar facing of the building is to be laid in courses from ten to 
fifteen inches in height, with a bed of nine inches, and the joints to be 
nowhere over three-eighths of an inch. 

The basements, to contain the heating furnaces, also the janitors' rooms 
and the room to receive Smithson's personal effects, are fire-proofed. A 
pine floor, covered two inches thick with cement, is carried under the roofs 
of the whole building. The floors, where they are not fire-proofed, have 
a deafening of lime, clay, and sand. 

The central stair-cases, front and rear, are to be of stone to the museum 
floor. The floor of the gallery of art, embracing the west wing and its 
connecting range, of the laboratory, including the east wing and part of 
its connecting range, of the central hall and the vestibules, also the floors of 
the basement under the laboratory, imder die central towers, under the 
campanile and other towers, together with the cloisters, are to be flagged 
with North river flagging. The floor of the principal lecture-room will also- 
be fl.agged with flags, supported on brick cross-walls. The floors of the 
library and museum are to be of pine; and it is not proposed that either of 
these two rooms should be artificially lighted. 

The laboratory wing is to be roofed with slate — the rest of the building, 
as the contract now stands, with sheet tin; but the committee propose to 
roof the main building and west wing with slate, parang the difference. 

It was made a condition of the contract that the erection of the building 
should occupy a period of five years from its date, that term ending on the 
19th of March, 1852. It was also agreed tliat the building should be 
erected in such proportions, during each year, as the committee might 



9 [ 23 ] 

direct, hnt so that the payments to the contractor in each of the first four 
years of the contract should not exceed an annual amount of ,*;41, 000; and 
so that the wings and connecting ranges should be completed in two yearf 
from the date of the contract. Fifteen per cent, on the architect's estimates 
is kept back until the completion of the building; but interest is to be ulti- 
mately paid on this per-centage, calculated from the dates of the several 
estimates. 

On the suggestion of one of the Regents, not a member of the committee, 
and of the Secretary of the institution, a supplement ^vas appended to the 
contract, by which it was stipulated, that if the Board of Regents should 
hereafter determine to make important alterations in the plan of building, 
or in the time of its execution, then the contractor was to be paid pro rata, 
according to the prices in the contract, for work executed, and reasonable 
damages, if the nature of the case should justly demand it. In case of 
dispute as to the amount, the matter to be referred to the architect of the 
institution, or any other architect selected by the committee. 

The contractors gave as security for the faithful performance of the con- 
tract, W. H. Winter, of Washington, and Horace Butler, of New York. 
The security was approved by the committee; and a bond, with a penalty 
of fifty two thousand dollars (being one-fourth of the amount uf the entire 
contract) was executed accordingly. 

The corner-stone of the building was laid on the 1st of May. The de- 
tails of the ceremonies upon that occasion, including the address delivered, 
in accordance with an invitation from the committee by the Chancellor, 
and which ceremonies were witnessed by six or seven thousand persons, 
will be found at large on the journal of the committee. 

The contractors proceeded for some time with the work in partnership; 
but on the 1st of June Mr. Dixon informed the board that the work would 
thereafter be conducted by Mr. Cameron alone; and since that time, it has 
been entirely managed by that gentleman. 

Mr. Cameron has since proceeded in the work with spirit, and has 
executed it, upon the whole, in a manner satisfactory to the committee. 
Occasional departures from the letter of the contract have been pointed out 
to him, and he has promptly remedied whatever was complained of. He 
is now covering in the east connecting range, and hopes still to coyer in 
the east wing, also, before he shall be arrested by frost; though he has been 
very much retarded in his operations, and has suffered some pecuniary 
loss by the breakage in the canal, caused by the late freshets. Since the 
7th of October, when the first damage was done, until nowj the canal has 
been closed, and not a perch of stone has been received. In another week 
or fortnight there is a fair prospect that the damage may be repaired, and 
water let into the canal. But for this accident, the contractor would alrea- 
dy ha\'e covered in the east wing of the building. He has now some 
twelve or fifteen thousand feet of stone lying ready quarried, and awaiting 
the re-opening of the canal. 

The chairman of the committee recently visited the quarry and found 
the stone that had been quarried of excellent quality and color, the tint 
somewhat lighter than the average tint of the present building. It quarries 
with remarkable facility, and the supply is unlimited. 

The contractor has commenced to lay the foundations of the west wing 
and west connecting range, but nothing whatever has yet been done 
towards the erection of the main building. 



[23] 



10 



The style of architecture selected by the board seems to meet with gene- 
ral approval. It may be taken as one evidence of this, that a church now 
in progress of erection in Stuyvesant square, New York, and of which 
the cost will reach some hundred and fifty thousand dollars, is built in the 
same style; as, by a perspective view of the same herewith submitted, the 
board will perceive. 

The lot belonging to the institution has been fenced in with a paling 
fence, whitewashed, which will last at least until the termination of the 
contract for the building. No measures have yet been taken for the erec- 
tion of a permanent fence. 

Water has been conveyed to the site of the building by tapping the fire 
plug at the engine house in Market square. The pipe is a strong leaden 
one, of inch-bore, laid two feet below the ground, and the water is con- 
veyed across the canal in an iron pipe of two-inch bore. 

The contract for the fence was taken by Joel Downer, and that to con- 
vey the water by Caleb Buckingham, both of Washington. A copy of 
their respective contracts will be found on the journal. After completing 
the work in a satisfactory m-anner, both of these gentlemen applied to the 
committee for extra compensation. Mr. Downer stated that the fence 
erected by him cost much more than the amount at which he contracted to 
complete it, and which was paid to him; and at one time during its pro- 
gress — to wit, on the 22d of May — he oifered to relinquish to the committee 
all he had done, if they would release him from the contract. This, how- 
ever, they dechned to do. 

Mr. Buckingham handed in a bill of his expenses, showing a larger 
amount expended than that which, in accordance with the terms of his 
contract, was paid to him, and alleged that he had laid down a heaver pipe 
than by the contract he was required to do. On these grounds, he put 
in a claim for additional compensation. The committee declined to allow 
it, but informed Mr. Buckingham that the matter would be by them refer- 
red to the Board of Regents. 

The board will find the particulars of this case, and of that of Mr. Dow- 
ner, in the minutes of their thirty-fourth meeting; and the committee beg 
to refer both cases to the board, for their decision as to whether in either 
case felief ought to be granted. 

The total amount expended on the building and on the fencing of the 
lot up to this date, the 1st December, including superintendence and all 
incidental expenses therewith connected, is $25,002 67, namely: 

Paid to Cameron, contractor $20,840 00 

Buckingham, supplying water to building - - - 650 00 ; 

Downer, for fence, $400; additional rail subsequently added, 

$60; whitewashing the same, $60 
For architect's office 

Coal bin 

Corner-stone 

Superintendence, including incidentals therewith connect- 
ed, and allowance to architect for original plans 

Total to 1st December, 1S47 

The committee has made a careful estimate of the probable expenditure 
for the building and lot, all incidentals included, from the 1st December; 



520 00 • 
200 00 
10 00 
9 00 

- 2,773 67 


. .$25,002 67 



11 ' [ 23 ] 

1847, to the 19th March, 1848, being the end of the first year of the build- 
ing contract, and set it down at $10,467 50, thus: 

Payments to contractor, about |9,500 GO 

Supernitendence and contigencies, about .... 967 50 

Total from 1 st December, 1847, to 19th March, 1848, about |10,467 50 

These two sums added together will give the total amount expended and 
to be expended for the above objects, from the commencement of operations 
to the end of one year from the date of the contract, about |35,470 17. 

It will be observed that the amount paid and to be paid to the contrac- 
tor within that year, will be less than thirty-one thousand dollars; that is, 
upwards of ten thousand dollars less than the annual payments to which, 
by the contract, the contractor is restricted. 

The item of superintendence, with its incidentals, is a considerable one. 
It is larger this first year than it will be in any subsequent one: first, be- 
cause of an allowance of about two months' salary to the architect, not in 
payment of his design, but to repay the actual expenses incurred during 
these two months and previously, in the mechanical execution of plans 
and sections of the building, including those which embodied the modifi- 
cations of the original design suggested by the committee appointed on the 
9th September, 1846, and subsequently adopted by the board; and, second- 
ly, because it was necessary to engage the services of the architect and su- 
perintendent about a month before the actual signature of the contract. 

The annual expense of superintendence is necessarily increased by the 
circumstance that the architect does not reside in Washington. The 
committee could not afford to offer him a salary which might have induced 
him to abandon his New York business; and as in consequence he could 
be present during a portion of his time only in this city, the alternative was 
presented to them either to leave the work, during his absence, under the 
control of the contractor, trusting wholly to his judgment and to his scru- 
pulous observance of the contract, or to engage die services of a superin- 
tendent who might be always on the spot, to see that no faulty materials 
nor insufficient work was admitted into any portion of the structure. They 
considered this latter the more prudent course, and engaged as superintend- 
ent a gentleman of much experience as an architect and builder, at a sal- 
aiy of $1,000 a year. To the principal architect they gave eighteen 
hundred a year and his travelling expenses — which, as he usually passes 
between New York and Washington once a month, amount to about three 
hundred a year — together with actual expenses for stationery, being from 
fifty to a hundred dollars annually. 

In connexion with this item of superintendence, the committee remark, 
that the labor and expense of preparing working plans in a style so novel 
as the Lombard, and for a design so irregular as that which has been 
adopted, are very much greater than if the style were one common in this 
country, or the design characterized by greater regularity. 

The expenses necessarily incurred by the building committee — which, 
hoVever, are small, as one member only of that committee is a non- 
resident of Washington — are not included as part of the expense of the 
building; both because a considerable portion of their attention was directed 
to objects other than the building, hereafter to be mentioned, and with which 
they were charged by the board, and also because they consider the infor- 



[23] 



12 



mation embodied in their journal, herewith submitted and in this report, to 
be more than an equivalent, m its value to tlie public, for the small sum to 
which their expenses amount. 

.In regard to the probable expense of completing the building, including 
its fitting up and furnishing, its lighting, heating, drainage, &c., the laying 
out, planting, and permanent fencing of the lot, and all other expenses 
therewith properly connected, as compared with appropriations heretofore 
made for these objects, the committee report as follows: 

It will be within the recollection of the board that, on the 2Sth of Janu- 
ary last, resolutions were passed by the board making the following appro- 
priations : 

The contract for the building not to exceed - - ^231 ,000 

Fitting up and furnishing the same. do - - . 20,000 

Warming and lighting the same do - - 5,000 

Permanent fence around the grounds do - - 10,000 

Laying out and planting the grounds do - - 4,000 

Together - - - - . - - $270,000 



No special appropriation was made for superintendence; but the com- 
mittee was empowered, by resolution of the 28tii January, in accordance 
with the fifth section of the act organizing the institution, to "employ one 
or more persons to superintend the erection of the building," and they Avere 
required to cause the work to be done "to the entire satisfaction of said 
superintendent or superintendents." The committee believe that there is 
no example in this country of the superintendence of a building as exten- 
sive as that of this institution costing, including all remuneration to 
the architect for the original design, and all incidentals appertaining to 
the architect's ofiice, less than S3,000 a year. The salary paid to a 
resident superintending architect of such a building, when it is his own 
design, is usually, without reckoning incidentals, either $2,500 or $3,000 
a year. The committee, are justified, then, in setting down the entire item 
of superintendence, (not included in the above appropriations,) with its inci- 
dentals, at $3,000 a year. In consequence of the principal architect resi- 
ding in New York, it actually costs a trifle more. 

Nor was any appropriation made to supply the building with water. 
This item, under a favorable contract, has cost $G50. 

The item of drainage, also, was omitted. In consequence of the muni- 
cipal regulations of Washington city, it M-ill cost from $1,000 to $1,500. 
The committee has put it down at $1,350. 

It we add to the appropriations specifically made, these necessary items, 
it will appear that the scale of expenditure to which, by the action of the 
board, the building committee have been limited for the completion of the 
building and grounds, all incidentals included, was about $287,000, thus: 
Special appropriations, already enumerated - - $270,000 

Superintendence, including 'incidentals, say five years, 

$3,000 a year - . . . . 15,000 

Drainage, say - - - . - . 1^350 

Supplying water to the building .... 650 

$287,000 



13 [ 23 ] 

The contract, however, for the building, has been taken at a rate much 
lower than the board seem to have anticipated; at a rate, too, to the credit 
of the architect it should be stated, fifteen thousand dollars below his esti- 
mates. And the contractor has proceeded so far with the erection, that 
the committee has had a good opportunity to judge of his competency and 
willingness to complete the whole under the conditions of the contract. 
Unless prevented by accident not to be foreseen or anticipated, they do not 
doubt that he will do so. Under these circumstances, although the com- 
mittee is aware that, in the execution of so extensive a work, many con- 
tingencies must be expected necessarily to present themselves, that will add 
to its cost; yet they confidently believe, that by judicious management 
and strict economy, the entire expenditure for the erection of the building, 
including the fitting up and furnishing of the same; supplying the same 
with water; laying out the lot in grass and planting it with trees and shrubs; 
fencing the same, both with the present temporary fence and the ultimate 
permanent one; also all expenses for superintendence of erection, including 
the cost of architect's office and other incidentals, so as, in fact, to cover 
all expenses whatever that have been incurred, or are to be incurred, on 
the building and on the lot on which it stands, until the completion of the 
building and of the preparation of the lot, up to the 19th of March, 1852, 
need not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, being thirty- 
seven thousand dollars less than the sum total, according to tlie scale of 
appropriation, heretofore adopted by the board. 

So confident is the committee of the accuracy of the above opinion, that 
they are willing to see passed by the board stringent resolutions rescinding 
former appropriations for these objects, and restricting the committee, in 
their entire operations, to the above amount. 

By a resolution of the board of the 5th of February last, the prepara- 
tion and publication of a work to be entided ''Hints on Public xirchitect- 
ure," and to contam, am_ong its illustrations, views and plans of the insti- 
tution building, was intrusted to the committee; and an appropriation of a 
thousand dollars was made for that purpose. 

In carrying out that resolution, the com.mittee made with Messrs. Wiley 
& Putnam, one of the most respectable publishing firms in New York, a 
contract, of which a copy will be found on their journal; according to the 
terms of which, the committee agrees to furnish the entire illustrations, 
which it is stipulated shall not be of less value than one thousand dollars; 
and the publishers, without further cost to the committee, agree to furnish 
a thousand copies of the volume bound in cloth, provided the letter-press 
does not exceed one hundred and fifty pages. 

In order to give increased value to the work, the committee applied to 
several public bodies, having control of edifices of which the architecture 
is of reputable character, for plates of the same. In the case of one of the 
New York churches they were successful, and they hope to obtain in the 
same way plates of one or two other public edifices. The particulars of 
these applications will be found at large on their journal. 

The committee hope to make this treatise, of which a portion of the 
manuscript is prepared, a work of practical importance, and of nationa 
interest. Among the resolutions on the journal of the committee, several 
will be found relating to this subject, and providing, among other things, 
that the forthcoming work should include a comparative review ot the ad- 
vantages, economy, and facility of adaptation to modern purposes, ot 



[23] 



14 



various styles of public architecture, particularly the Grecian, Roman, 
modern Italian, Gothic of diiferent ages, and Norman; giving the actual 
cost, compared to extent of accommodations, of some of the principal pub- 
lic edifices in the United States, in the various styles, including some of 
the public buildings erected in Washington, and elsewhere, by the general 
government; also, that, so far as the funds permit, the work shall contain 
illustrations, in the best style of art, representing such among the public 
buildings of the United States as exhibit the purest specimens of architect- 
ure, in Various styles, including two perspective views of the Smithsonian 
Institution on steel; and including, also, one or more perspective views of 
the best designs for the institution, offered in competition. 

To execute such a plan as this in a reputable manner, the illustrations, 
including numerous wood cuts, essential to a proper elucidation of the 
text, will, the conmiittee have ascertained, cost more than the sum here- 
to tore appropriated. The two steel engravings of the institution building 
in perspective cannot be obtained, executed in the best style of art, for 
less than $350 to ,§400 for the two. The committee ask, therefore, of the 
board an additional appropriation of a thousand dollars. By reference to 
a supplement recently made to the original contract Avith Wiley & Putnam, 
and of which a copy is given in the minutes of the forty-first meeting of 
the conmiittee, the board will perceive that such an additional appropria- 
tion, expended on illustrations, will entitle us to an additional hundred 
pages of letter-press; making in all two hundred and fifty pages. This 
the committee consider important, as it is doubtful whether the number of 
pages to which, by the original contract, the volume was restricted, will 
sutiice for the purpose of the work. 

It will require six months, properly to execute the illustrations of this 
work; so that it cannot be published before next summer or autumn. The 
committee will proceed in its preparation as rapidly as is consistent with 
the proper execution of the work. 

It is the purpose of the committee to add to this work, as an appendix, 
the result of the experiments heretofore (to wit, by resolution of the first of 
March last) authorized by the board, to determine the economical value of 
the diiferent building materials used in the United States. This will 
give to the work additional value for builders, carpenters, and mechanics, 
generally. 

For fiirther particulars regarding the various subjects touched on in this 
reprt, the committee beg to refer the board to the copy, herewith sub- 
mitted, of their journal. They think it would be useful to make that copy 
a portion of the annual report of the board to Congress. 

They submit also, herewith, the original contracts with Dixon & 
Cameron, Joel Downer, Caleb Buckingham, and Wiley & Putnam; and 
the security bond signed by Dixon & Cameron, Winter, and Buder. 
All which is respectfully submitted. 

ROBERT DALE OWEN. 
W. W. SEATON. 
JOS. G. TOTTEN. 
December 7, 1847. 



15 [ 23 ] 

No. 2. 

Journal of the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, from 
the 17 th^February to the 1st December, 1S47. 

[Mr. Oaven, Chairman.] 

FIRST MEETING— February 17, 1S47. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

On motion of Mr. Hough, it was ., . r 

Resolved That Robert Mills, architect, be supermtendent, at the rate ot 
one thousand dollars per annum, to commence at this date, and contnme 
at the pleasure of the commiittee. 

Mr. Renwick, architect, being present, was requested to see Mr. Mills 

and engage his services. 

On motion ^f Mr. Seaton, It was 

Resolved, That 1 00 copies of the specifications prepared by the architect 
be printed, for the use of contractors. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

SECOND MEETING— February 23, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following lettei fiom the 

Hon. Louis McLane: 

Baltimore, Februarij 22, 1S47. 
Devr Sir: I understand from our chief engineer that Mr. Howard will 
recommend to his board of directors, on Wednesday next, to agree to nans- 
port the marble on their railroad at 2| cents P^^ ^on per mi e ;^ a^^^^^^^^^ 
rate be adopted, I should reconmiend the ^^^option of a simila cha^^^^^^^^^^ 
the road of this company. My final answer, therefore, must await tlie 

action of the other company. 

I am, dear sir, very respectfully, your obedient sexvan^, ^^^^^^^ 

To the Hon. Robert Dale Owen. 

rJ:TtZ I'^L^.'f'l'rowed annually the sum of eighteen 
hufd tll^S fofsupe^^ besides his f^^^^S!J^ 

dated Point of Rocks, Frederick county Maryland; ^"J^^V Uat ^^^^"^' 
the committee that a quarry of the very best ny^^^J ^^^ f ,^ ^ has been 
is to be found there, close to the Chesapeake '^"^ Ol^io canal, a a 
examined by himself, and asks the committee to send some suiw p 
to examine the same. 



[23 ] 



16 



On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That Dr. Owen be requested to proceed to visit the said quarry, 
and also the marble quarries in the vicinity of Baltimore, and to report 
thereon to this committee; also, that he be requested to aid Mr. Renwick 
by preparing the drawings for the chemical department. 

The chairman stated to the committee, on the part of Dr. Owen, that 
any services performed by him for the institution would be gratuitous; his 
actual travelling and other necessary expenses only being paid. 

On motion, the committee adjourned. 

THIRD MEETING— March 1, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

The chairman laid before the board the following letter from Mr. Samuel 
Worthington, of Maryland, brother of the ex-member of Congress of that 
name : 

Baltimore County, Fejbruary 26, 1S4T. 

To the Bidlding- Committee of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen: I will agree to furnish, and have placed on cars at Cockeys- 
ville, any quantity of marble for rubble work, from the quarry, undressed 
other than broken as near the required size as practicable, at $1 25 per 
perch; or, if by the ton, at $1 per ton. Any marble that may be wanted 
other than the above, 1 will deliver on cars, as above, at TO cents per cubic 
foot for all sizes under forty feet, and for all above forty feet 85 cents per 
foot. 

Respectfully, your obedient servant, 

SAM'L WORTHINGTON. 

The chairman laid before the committee a reply prepared by him to the 
above letter, as follows: 

Washington, March 1, 1847. 

Sir: I yesterday received your letter of the 26th of February, addressed 
to the building committee of our institution, and shall lay it before the 
committee, which meets to-day. 

Will you have the goodness, in addition to the proposals contained in 
your letter, to state to us at how much per perch of twenty-five feet , mea- 
sured in the building, you would be willing to rent to us the quarry-right 
for so much marble as we may require for our building — say about five 
thousand perches in all. 

I think the Maryland marble, including the specimens I have seen from 
your quarry and from others in the neighborhood, is of very fair quality, 
and only needs a reputation to bring it into general use. But it is neces- 
sary for us to get the quarry right low, or else the New York marble, which 
is also of excellent quality, will come into competition with it. The owner 
of the Hastings quarry, on tlie North river, has offered the quarry-right, for 
the sake of the reputation it will obtain if selected by our institution. But 
I think the freight from there may be a trifle higher than that by railroad, 
if the railroads come down, as I think they will; to 2\ cents per ton per 
mile. 



17 [23] 

Whatever material and quarry we may select, the particulars regarding it 
will be published liy us in connexion with the plans of the building, and a 
copy sent to every literary and scientilic society of any importance not 
only in this country, but throughout Europe. The reputation of the quarry 
we may select will therefore be known all over the world. 

If we contract for the quarry riglu, we shall have to do so subject to the 
decision of the two railroads to reduce their freight to 2} cents per ton per 
mile. 

This will be handed to you by my brother, Dr. Owen, a geologist, who 
is instructed by our board carefully to examine the various Maryland quar- 
ries, including one at the " Point of Rocks," from which specimens have 
recently been sent io us. You will oblige the committee by affording Dr. 
Owen every facility to examine your quarry. 

If we agree to rent of you the quarry right, we should expect to go into 
die quarry where you are at wrork. But this need not at all embarrass 
your own operations. 

If we agree to pay half the expenses of a railroad to connect your quarry 
with the York road, so that the cars could be loaded in the quarry, will 
you agree to pay the other half? Please reply to this. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

ROBERT DALE OWEN, 

Chairmmi of Building Committee. 

Samuel Woethington, Esq. 

The reply was approved by the committee. 

The chauman laid before the committee a letter from Wm. Robinson, 
owner of a Maryland quarry of" white primitive stone," which he offers 
for the Smithsonian building. 

Referred to Dr. Owen. 

The chairman laid before the board. a letter from Peter Gorman, stating 
that he had found a quarry superior to any other he had visited, (Samuel 
Worthington's,) and which could be rented on cheap terms. 

The chairman informed the conunittee that he had seen Mr. Gorman 
since the receipt of tliis letter, and he (Mr. G.) stated that Mr. Worthington 
was willina; to rent his quarry ibr the purposes of the institution at twenty 
cents per perch quarry right. 

Letter laid on the table. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter from Mr. 
Howard; president of the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad: 

Office of the Baltimore axd Susciuehanna Railroad Co., 

Baltimore, February 24, 1847. 

Dear Sir: In compliance with your request, t submitted to-day tiie 
proposition that we should unite with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad 
Company in transporting rough marble for the Smithsonian Institution, 
from the quarries in Baltimore county to Washington, at a charge of 2^ 
cents per ton per mile for the whole distance. 

I regret that I cannot yet give you an answer. The period has now ar- 
rived lor the appointment; by our legislature, of directors of the company 
on the part of the State, who will constitute a majority of the whole board. 

Expecting every day to hear of such appointment being made, die di- 
rectors have not deemed it expedient to enter at this moment into a con- 
2 



[ 23 ] 18 

tract wliich will last for several years, and thereby forestall the action of 
their successors, should the legislature think proper to make any changes 
in the board. 

This question will probably be settled before this day week, when I 
hope to be prepared to give you tbe decision of the company. 

Hoping that this unavoidable delay may not be productive of any in- 
convenience to the Regents of the institution, or to the committee of that 
body with which you are acting, 

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

CHARLES HOWARD, President. 
Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 

Chairman of Building Committee. 

The letter was laid on the table. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That, as the specifications were not furnished by the printers 
by the time appointed by public advertisement, for the inspection of bid- 
ders, the time for receiving bids for the work specified in the advertisement 
of the building committee be extended from the 10th to the 15th inst. 

On motion, the committee adjourned. 

FOURTH MEETING— March 6, 1S4T. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

Mr. Seaton laid before the committee a letter from Mr. Peter, owner of a 
quarry on tlie margin of the canal, near the mouth of Seneca creek, as 
follows : 

MoxTE Video, {near Darnestowyr^Montgomerij Co., 
Maryland ,) December 9, 1847. 

Dear Sir: Yours of the 5th inst. was received by yesterday's mail, in 
which you state that the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have in 
their possession a specimen of red sandstone taken from my quarry, on 
the margin of the canal. I am unable to determine from whicli particular 
quarry the specimen they have in their possession was taken, as several 
have been opened, and there is a continuous line of a mile in length of 
similar stone, equally convenient to the canal. 

The aqueduct at the mouth of Seneca creek, and many of the locks, 
both above and below, are constructed of stone derived from my land. 

The jury, in condemning the quarries for the use of the canal company, 
allowed me twenty-five cents a perch for the backings; that is, all stone 
intended for cut work, twenty-five cents — all calculated for hammered 
work, twelve and a half cents a perch; and for these prices would I grant 
permission to obtain stone for any purpose. 

The excellence of tiie material— for it is capable of withstanding any ex- 
posure — the facility with which it is obtained, and the ease with which it 
may be transported by the canal to the spot where required, would, I 
should suppose, give it a decided preference over any stone which could 
be brought in competition widi it, lor the purposes of the institution. 

As to quantity, it is unbounded, and in texture and shade a great variety; 
and in such a building as, I have no doubt, the Smithsonian Institution 
will be, would present not only an appropriate, but a pleasing contrast 
with the other public edifices in Waslnnglon. 



19 [ 23 ] 

It would afford me great pleasure to see it selected by the Regents as the 
material of which the edifice shall be constructed; and the very hberal price 
at which it is offered, may, I hope, have its influence in securing its 

adoption. . . , nr. j • 

It will afford me pleasure to answer any niquiry the Kegents may desire 
to make in relation to the stone, and to afford every facility to an agent, 
should they think proper to send one, in making any examination. 

Yours, very respectfully, 

JOHN P. C. PETER. 

W. W. S EATON, Esq, 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, is was 

Resolved, That on the return of Dr. Owen from the marble quarries of 
Maryland, he be requested to visit the different sandstone quarries m the 
vicinity of Seneca creek, and make a report on their extent, and their 
general character and fitness for furnishing a suitable material for the 
Smithsonian building. 

Mr, Owen submitted the following letter: 

Baltimore County, MarrJi 6, 1847. 

Sir- Yours of the 1st inst. has deen duly received, and, in reply, I 
would state that I am almost entirely uninformed as to the sizes of the stone 
required, and am at a loss how to propose for the material. 

If you would do me the favor to send me, immediately, a specification 
of the stone wanted, I will then propose for the stone, whether the rubWe 
stone is to be worked and made ready for the mason, or in the rough state 

^Tou maX^; misapprehended my former letter: that was for the rough 
and the ordinary size building-stone. As to the quarry right the price 
would depend imich on which quarry you might want the ^^^^^'Xi 
into • I have several. I should be much pleased to furnish you with what 
sH; you mav want, should you determine to use our stone, and thmk 
the material to be as good as any in our neighborhood 

Please write immediately on the reception of this in o ^ei that 1 may 
have time to propose by the 20th inst. I was this day with some ot He 
directorTof thriusque^hanna road, and I think they will agree to take the 
proposed amount— that is to say, 2\ cents per mile. 

Resnectf Lilly, vour obedient servant, 
Kespecuuuy, y g^j^^^L WORTHLNGTON. 

Hon. R. D- Owen, 

Chairman of Building Committee. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was ;i ,^.;i t^P rPtnrn of 

Resolved, That the reply to the above be postponed until the letum of 

Dr. Owen from Maryland. . . ^^„„-t A-nm Dr 

The chahmanlaid before the committee the followmg rei^ort from Dr. 

Page, appointed to make examination of bmldmg-materials: 



[ 23 ] 20 

To the Building Committee of the SmitJisonian Institution, on the action 
of frost wpon certain materials for huilcliiii. 



>S- 



Of the twenty-five specimens of stone submitted to me for examination 
with reference to their relative properties in resisting the disintegrating 
action of frost, I have been able to investigate but twenty-two ; the remain- 
ing specimens, marked, respectively, 1, 9, 5 D, being too small to submit to 
the test. It was thought desirable to ascertain their specific gravities, with 
a view to determine if any connexion existed between their densities and 
liability to dilapidation. The result leads us to infer that such relation does 
not exist, and that the texture of the stone, without reference to density, 
determines its frangibiliiy under the influence of frost. Resort was had in 
these experiments to an imitation of the operation of freezing water after 
the process described by Brard, a French chemist, in the '' Annales de 
Chiniie et Physique,^'' vol. 38. The details of the process will presently 
be given. 

The absorption and subsequent freezing of water within the stone would 
liave been a more energetic mode of action; but the undertaking would 
prove one of considerable practical difficulty, and, on the whole, not so 
reliable as an experiment, unless, perhaps, the cn-cumstances were such as^ 
to admit of their exposure to natural freezing under favorable circumstances. 

The process of Brard consists in substituting the crystallization of the 
sulphate of soda for the freezing of water, and has met with the approval 
of many French architects and engineers, as the results accord with their 
experience. In the freezing or crystallization of water, the expansion is 
such, that the crystals float; while in the crystallization of sulphate of soda, 
and other soluble salts, the crystals sink in the solution; but, notwith- 
standing, the exertion of the crystalline forces of these salts is sulhcient to 
produce decided impressions upon the hardest of building materials in a 
izw weeks. 

The specimens of s^tone furnished me by your board were all numbered 
as according to the subjoined table; and it may be proper to remark, that 
their localities and respective values, as usually estimated, were unknown 
to me until after the results ol the experiments had been laid before you 
and approved. 

Six numbered specimens were also handed to me by Mr. Dewey, and 
are marked, respectively, ID, 2 13, (fcc. The specimens were cut into 
inch cubes; three of the whole number being of. insufficient size, were laid 
aside, as above mentioned. The cubical blocks, suspended by strings, to 
which the respective numbers upon labels were attached, were first im- 
mersed in a boiling solution of sulphate of soda, saturated when cold; and 
after remaining half an hour in tlie boiling liquid, they were removed 
and hung upon a frame over half-pint bowls, containing also a quantity of 
tile cold saturated solution. 

In the course of 24 hours a considerable efliorescence was found upon 
the surface of each specimen, consisting of the crystals of the salt mixed 
with comminuted portions of the stone. These were washed off daily, by 
simultaneously innnersing the stones in the solution in the bowls, and suf- 
fering them to remain there for a few minutes. This proceeding was re- 
peated daily for one week, when it became necessary to deviate from Brard's 
directions, and to keep them in a moderate temperature, instead of a cold 
cellar, as he advises. It was obvious that the investigation would be ex- 



21 



[23] 



ceedingly protracted unless the crystallization of the salt were promoted by 
moderate warmth, as by this time the detritus from some specimens was 
hardly visible. 

After the change, the process went on with greater rapidity; and at the 
end of four weeks the dipping was stopped, and the sediment or deposite in 
each bowl was carefully weighed, and furnished the results as given in 
the table. In some cases the comminution of the stone was exceedingly 
fine; and in the washing and decanting process, ample time was allowei 
for the deposite to settle after each washing, and the utmost care used ni 
the subsequent operations of decanting, drying, and weighing. Tlie time 
of one week for the operation of dipping the stones in the solution was not 
deemed sufficient, as the deposite from the marbles and some othe^ varie- 
ties was hardly apparent; and it was therefore continued, as above stated, 
four weeks, and thus the slight errors of manipulation, if any occurred, are 
proportionally diminished. 

Disintegrating effects of frost uj)on stones used for huilding-tnaterials. 



Specimens 


marked, 


No. 


1 


No. 


2 


No. 


3 


No. 


4 


No. 


5 


No. 


6 


No. 


7 


No. 


S 


No. 


9 


No. 


10 


No. 


11 


No. 


12 


No. 


13 


No. 


14 


No. 


15 


4 T 


C 


P 





S 


B 


H 


B 


1 


D 


2 D 


3 


D 



Not tested; the specimen being too small. 

Symington's close-grained marble (similar to 
Worthington's) . - - - 

Connecticut sandstone, coarsest grained qual- 
ity 

Dark red Seneca sandstone (similar to Peter's) 

Symington's large crystal marble 

Symington's blue limestone 

Coarse, large crystal marble, Mt. Pleasant, 
New York . . . - 

Port Deposite granite . . . 

Too small to examine. 

Trinity sandstone, fine grained and light- 
colored - - - - - 

Connecticut sandstone, finer grained quality 

Nova Scotia sandstone, coarse grained 

Light Seneca sandstone, dove-colored 

Pennsylvania marble, close-grained - 

Pennsylvania blue limestone 

Trinity church light colored, close-grained 
sandstone, New Jersey 

Patent Ofiice light sandstone 

Soft brick - - - - - 

Hard brick - - - - - 

Granite from Potomac Great falls 

Dark coarse sandstone, of Seneca aqueduct, 
Peter's quarry - - - " 

Sandstone four miles above No. 2 D, Pe- 
ter's, next west of Beaver dam quarry 




2.S34 



I 



Loss by 
frost, in 
grains. 



0.10 



not ascer- 




tained. 


14.36 


2.672 


0.70 


2.857 


0.50 


2.613 


0.34 


2.860 


0.91 


2.609 


5.05 


not ascer- 




tained. 


1.58 


2.5S3 


24.\)3 


2.518 


2.16 


2.486 


1.78 


2.727 


0.35 


2.699 


0.28 


2.462 


0.62 


2.230 


18.60 


2.211 


16.46 


2.294 


1.07 


1 


0.35 


f m o 


5.60 


O 
5 


1.58 



[23] 



2.2 



TABLE— Continued. 



Specimens 
marked, 



4 D 

5 D 

6 D 



Dark sandstone, from quarry near Wood'^s 
residence - - - - - 

Not tested, specimen being too small. 
Lower stratum, Beaver dam quarry - 




Lops by- 
frost, in 
grains'. 



3.94 
1.T2 



Respectfully submitted by 
Washington, D. C., March 5, 184T. 



CHARLES G. PAGE. 



Seaton, it wms 
Hough be a sub-committee to revise the details of 



• Laid on the table. 

On motion of Mr 

Resolved, That Mr 
Xlii^ specifications, with a special reference to the solidity, security, and 
economy of the building, and to report thereon to this committee; specify- 
ing what changes, if any, he may deem necessary or expedient. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, the following resolution was adopted: 

AVhereas the Board of Regents did_> on the 5th day of February, pass 
the following resolution, to wit: 

'■^Resolved, That the building committee, in conjunction with the Secre- 
tary, be authorized to publish, in such form as they may deem most appro- 
priate, one thousand copies of a brief treatise, to be entitled "■ Hints on 
Pul)lic Architecture," and to be illustrated with designs of the plan of the 
building adopted for the Smithsonian Institution, and, at the option of the 
committee, with any other designs that are the property of the institution: 
Provided, that the cost of the same shall not exceed one thousand dollars, 
which sum is hereby appropriated for that purpose:" Therefore, 

Resolved, That Mr. Owen be a sub-commiUee to prepare, after consul- 
tation with the Secretary, the said treatise, and to contract for the necessa- 
ly illustrations; provided he submit the same to this committee before 
pubUcation. 

The chairman submitted a table of the value of different kinds of plank 
and scantling — Mount Crawford, Rockingham county, Virginia. 

Referred to the architect 

On motion, the conmiittee adjourned. 



FIFTH meeting-March 12, ISIT. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter from the.- 
chief engineer of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company: 



23 [ 23 ] 

Engineer's Office, Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, 

Baltimore, March 1, 1847. 

Sir: I have been requested by Mr. Mcliane, the president of this com- 
pany, to coinminiicate to you that the Bahiniore and Susquehanna Rail- 
road Company has not yet decided to join this company in the trasporta- 
tion of marble, in the rubble form, to Washington, for the buildings of 
the Smithsonian Institution, at the rate (2^ cents per ton per mile) sug- 
gested by you. The president of the Susquehanna Company informed 
me to-day that he would apprize you by letter of the reasons of the delay 
on the part of his company. 

I have only now, by Mr. McLane's desire, to repeat that the Baltimore 
and Ohio Company is ready, upon reasonable notice, to enter into the 
transportation, whenever the Susquehanna Company is prepared to unite 
with it in the operation, at the rate which has been mentioned. 

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

BENJAMIN H. LATROBE, 

Cliief Engineer. 

Hon. Robert Dale Owen. 

Laid on the table. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter from the 
president of the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company, relative 
to rates of freight: * 



O' 



k 



Office Baltimore and SusdUEHANNA Railroad Co., 

Baltimore, March 8, 1847. 

Dear Sir: I am now authorized to say that the president and directors 
of this company will unite with those of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad 
Company in an agreement to transport the limestone or rough marble for 
the building of the Smithsonian Institution, from the quarries on the line 
of the railroad of this company to Washington, a distance of 53 miles, lor 
2\ cents per ton of 2,000 lbs. "per mile. The company will agree to cany 
75 tons per week whenever required. 

From the communications I have had with the officers of the Baltimore 
and Ohio Company, I feel well assured that no difficulty will be expe- 
rienced in making such an arrangement with the two companies as will 
be entirely satisfactory to the building committee of the Regents, and to the 
person with whom they may contract. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

^ ^ CHARLES HOWARD, President. 

Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 

Chairman of the Building Committee. 

Laid on the table. . . 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter, containing 
proposals to furnish marble from the State of New York: 

New York^ March 6, 1847, 
Gentlemen: T yiU furnish white marble from my quarry at Hastings, 
on the Hudson river, for the Smithsonian Institution, as follows: 



L 23 ] 24 

110,000 feet of nibble facing, 1 foot thick, at 30 cents per foot, 
measured in the wall - - - - - 30 cents. 

20,000 cubic feet dimension do. do., for cutting,' at 98 cents 

per cubic foot - - - - - - 9S "^ 

Delivered in the chj of Washington. 

Very respectfully, 



A. R. Raymond, bondsman. 

Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 
William J. Hough, 
W. W. Seaton, 

Building Comniittee. 



JOHiN B. Gl.OYER. 



o 



Laid on the table. 

The cbairman laid before the committee the following letter, making 
proposals to furnish marble from JMassaehusetts: 

West STOCKBRiDCiE. 

Dear Sir: I understand from Mr. Hooker, of New York, that your 
plan has been adopted for the Smitlisonian Institution, and that you are 
receiving proposals for marble for buttresses, blocks, caps, coping, and or- 
namental bands. I submit the following proposition for your considera- 
tion : 

I propose to furnish you blocks of marble, for all sizes under 4,000 lbs. 
weight, for eighty cents per cubic foot, trimmed near the size, and delivered 
at Washington. 

I have not the plan before me. Mr. Hooker states that there will be 
from twenty-five to thirty thousand feet of said stone; if that is the quan- 
tity, I will pledge myself to furnish it in two years from the date of 
contract, or comply with your terms in regard to time. 

Yours, (!cc., 

MILO M. PARRISH. 

^urctij — Thomas Milligan, Wm. Milligan, Gilbert Milligan. 
Mr. Renwick, Architect. 

N. B. — Furthermore, I think that it would be advisable to try Stock- 
bridge marble; it can be worked for some six cents cheaper than any other 
marble in this country. 

Mr. Thomas Milligan was one of the firm of Leonard and Milligan, who 
had a contract on the water- works at Dob's ferry. 

Laid on the table. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter, making 
proposals to furnish lumber, from Philadelphia: 

Philadelphia, March 9, 1847. 

Gentlemen: I do hereby propose to deliver all the lumber required in 
the erection of the Smithsonian Institution, including hemlock, white 
pine, yellow pine, (including the flooring,) for the sum of twenty-six 



25 [23] 

dollars per thousand feet, and will give security for the faithful performance 
of the contract. 

[ consider my bid as worthy the notice of the committee, and would be 
glad to confer with them on the subject, should they deem it advisable. 

I have on band a large supply of seasoned lumber, and arrangements 
for the supply of any quantity wanted. 

I would respectfully refer the committee to the Hon. James Buchanan, 
Secretary of State, should they desire information as regards my ability to 
perform any engagements I may enter into. Please address me at this 
place if you wish me to go on to the city of Washington, 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

SAML. M. LEIPER. 
To the Building Committee 

of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Laid on the table. 

The chairman submitted, from Dr. David Dale Owen, the following 

Report on the Baltii?iore county quarries. 

To the Building Committee of the Smit/iso7iian Institution: 

Gentlemen: In conformity with your instructions, I have examined a 
number of quarries in the vicinity of Baltimore, and also one at the Point 
of Rocks, with a view to ascertain the extent and quahty of the building 
material they furnish, and report as follows: 

Extensive quarries of white crystalline marble commence about twelve 
and a half to thirteen miles from Baltimore, near a small village called 
Texas, or Clarksville, on the line of the Susquehanna railroad. 

The first quarry visited is that owned by Fell and Robinson, who are 
largely engaged in lime -burning. It lies on the west side of, and only a 
few paces from, the main track of the railroad. The surface layers are, by 
barometrical measurement, forty feet above the level of Cold Spring creek, 
a small stream running through this quarry; and ledges of marble extend 
down to the banks of that stream and form its bed; varying, however, at 
ditferent heights, somewhat in texture and appearance. 

The purest variety in this quarry is of a coarse and highly crystalline 
structure, varying in tint from a pure white to a faint shade of bluish or 
grayish white, as may be seen by inspection of the various specimens. It 
is known to the c[uarrymen under the name of '' alum limestone.'''' 

The course of this purer variety is northwest and southeast, with an 
average width of 1.50 feet, and extending 525 feet back to Fell and Robin- 
son's west boundary line. Taking the average depth of this quarry at 18 
feet, its solid contents may, therefore. Be estimated at IS X 150 X -525 = 
1,417,500 cubic feet, or 56,700 perches, in this single ciuarry. 

North of this white crystalline marble, the rock gradually assumes a 
shade of blue or gray, as may be observed by inspecting specimen No. 4. 

The upper layers at Fell and Robinson's quarry are banded witli light 
gray veins. Below this are at least three feet of pure, highly crystalhue, 
white limestone. Judging from specimens detached from the interior pro- 
jecting layers, there is evidendy a great body of the same kind of rock 
beneadi, with probably some banded beds, similar to the upper beds pre- 
viously described. 



[23] 



26 



On the east side of the railroad and close to it, some four hundred or five 
hundred yards from Robinson and Fell's quarry, Griscom and Borrougli 
hax'e opened quarries. The rock here is of the same character as that in 
Robinson and Fell's quarry, and equally good; see specimens Nos. 2 and 
2a. Some nests in this quarry are of a closer grain than the main beds; 
see specimen No. 2ab. 

The ledges of this rock, where\'er it projects through the soil, and. has 
been exposed probably for ages, have a dark appearance on the surface, 
apparently from incrustations (~>f lichen; but when broken, the discoloration 
is seen to be superficial, not extending at all into the substance of the rock: 
see No. 5 b. 

The dip of the beds seems to be generally to the southwest, at an angle 
of perhaps 20^' to 25°. 

There is no difficulty in draining these quarries, since there is twenty 
to forty feet of rock entirely above the level of water drainage. 

The top layers are sometimes in detached and more or less rounded 
masses; owing, no doubt, to the corrosive influence of water containing 
carbonic acid, or some organic acid, percolating through the superficial 
soil, corroding and dissolving the accessible edges of the calcareous layers. 

Over the upjier beds lies usually ferruginous earth of deep red color, 
forming a remarkable contrast to the snow-white marble beneath; indeed, 
this appearance on the surface might, perhaps, often serve as a guide to 
the detection of the white marbles of this region. 

Symington's quarry lies in the same vicinity, about three hundred to 
four hundred yards from the main track. The owner of this, as well as 
the other quarries here, intend to have sivitchcs (that is, lateral branch rail- 
roads) running into their quarries. 

The rock here is of a rather finer crystalline structure than that of the 
preceding, with a slight cast of blue; see specimens Nos. 3 and '3a. A solid 
bed is exposed, of nearly uniform texture, about nine feet thick. Blocks 
weighing several tons are now lying in the quarry. At the top of the 
quarry there are some beds with gray mica disseminated: such must, of 
course, be rejected. The dip is here as at the other quarries. 

Thirteen and a half miles from Baltimore and half a mile east of the 
railroad, and about one mile northeast of the previously described localities, 
is a quarry on land owned by Chisilla Owens, '^I'he rock here is also a 
white and highly crystalline marble, of a good color, similar to that in the 
vicinity of Texas; but the quarry is not yet opened: the surface indications 
are, however, very favorable for a body of good " alum limestone." For 
sample of this material, see specimen No. 6. 

In the vicinity of the same railroad, a little further to the north in the 
neighborhood of Cockeysville, fourteen to fifteen miles from Ballimorej 
are several other marble quarries. 

The first visited was on land owned by Mrs. Taylor, and situated about 
a quarter of a mile west of the railroad. The rock exposed here differs 
from that of the Texas quarries, in being rather closer-grained and the sur- 
face layers more granular; see specimen No. 5. At this locality a block was 
got out upwards of seventeen feet long, which was presented to the build- 
ing committee of the Washington monument at Baltimore; out of this block 
the statue on the summit was sculptiu-ed. 

Loose blocks of similar character to that in the quarry are seen all over 
the surface of the adjacent hills. 



27 [ 23 ] 

Tlie lower beds are not exposed in Mrs. Taylor's quarry. 

Four hundred to five hundred yards nearer the railroad, abetter cemented 
and rather more compact marble crops out to the surface; but no quarry is 
opened here, to enable one to form a correct judgment as to the extent, 
thickness, or uniformity of the beds. Still, from the persistency of the 
same material throughout this region, one may predict, with tolerable cer- 
tainty, that there is here, deeper seated, a great mass of valuable material. 

Part of the marble employed in the construction of the Washington 
monument at Baltimore was obtained at this quarry of Mrs. Taylor's, and 
part of it from Scott's quarries, five miles further to the north. The latter 
is said to be of an inferior quality. Of this I had no opportunity of judging 
personally, as 1 did not visit the quarry, thinking it was too far out of the 
way. 

Three quarters of a mile from the railroad, and a mile and a half or two 
miles northeast from Texas, is another quarry, on Mrs. Taylor's property. 
This quarry has been wrought for fifteen years, and supplied Baltimore 
with a great deal of marble. The upper layers, (see specnnen No. 5 b,) at 
this place, are, from some peculiarity, either of texture or chemical composi- 
tion, much disposed to crumble to calcareous sand, which has been employ- 
ed to advantage as a mineral manure on land. The inferior beds are of a 
sounder material, and lie more regularly than usual, but the rock is not 
of as pure a color, being banded with gray stripes; see specimen 5c. 
Dip very slight to the south. 

One hundred yards south of this is another quarry, on Ghisilla Owens's 
property. This rock is of a beautiful texture and good color, as njay be seen 
iDy specimens No. 5d and No. 7. It lies in tolerably distinct strata, and 
nearly horizontal, but it is traversed by minute cross-fissures, which de- 
tract much from the value of the material, inasmuch as large solid blocks 
cannot be got out, at least from the exposed layers; a sounder material 
may perhaps be obtained lower down. 

A little northwest of this is Baker and Conly's quarry, near Beaver Dam 
creek. This quarry is well opened, presenting a perpendicular face of fif- 
teen feet or upwards; four and a half to five feet in this quarry, as far as 
opened, is tolerably good marble, (see specimen No. S;) but the upper beds 
are of inferior quality, being contaminated by a thin interlamination of mica 
in the interstiees of the stratification. 

Nests of sulphuret of iron also occur here, which would render necessary 
a very careful selection. There are at present in this quarry several blocks 
that would fill a room of ordinary size. 

Between this quarry and Ghisilla Owens's quarry, on Beaver Dam creek, 
and about two hundred to three hundred yards from tlie last described, 
Mr. Baker has quarried out a considerable quantity of white marble of very 
superior quality. Unfortunately, the ledges of rock here are but little above 
the level of Beaver dain; it is said, however, that when this quarry was 
worked, it was easily kept drained by a one-horse pump. The fact of 
good marble occurring at this low level on Beaver dam, renders it more than 
probable that good marble will be found in the adjacent quarries just men- 
tioned at a considerable lower level than where they are now worked. 

On the northwest branch of Beaver dam, between fifteen and sixteen 
miles from Baltimore, and rather more than a ip^ile from the radroad, are 
Mr. Worthington's marble quarries, and saw-mill for cutting it into dimen- 
sion-stone. 



[23] 



28 



Tlie rock in this vicinity is mostly composed of sniall aggregated crys- 
tals, of less size and finer texture than the " alum marble." 

The old quarry was first visited. It is situated on a hillside, fifteen feet, 
by the barometer, above the drainage level of the northwest branch of Beaver 
dam. The top rock here is not pure, nor even bedded; but beneath, at 
the above level, commences a marble of snowy whiteness, passing into one 
with a blue tina:e; see specimens 10?^? and 106/. This marble spauls with 
ease and precision, nearly as well on the edge as the bed, and is free to 
work in every way. This is also the case Vv^ith the marble taken from 
Baker's lower quarry; and indeed all the finer marbles have the same prop- 
erty, unless they are laminated and schistose. The marble here admits 
of i3eing split out of considerable length, twenty or even forty feet. The 
face, however, when thus split, is more or less irregular, varying four to six 
inches or more from a true level surface. 

On the other hand, the facility of spauling enables it to be brought 
to the desired dimensions with comparatively little labor. The blue- 
tinged variety quarried here is but little inferior in appearance to the 
virgin white. Both varieties, though they do not admit of receiving 
a high polish, like the best quality of Carara marble, can nevertheless be • 
wrought into very fine ornamental work, with a beautifully sharp arris, as 
may be seen by the specimen with raised lettering, and that cut into a cap- 
ital carved by Mr. Parkie, of Baltimore. 

The lower beds are not exposed on the quarry face, but outcropping 
ledges can be seen in various places around the slopes of the rising ground; 
also in the bed of the creek, and everywhere in the bottom, where ditches 
have been dug two to three feet deep; all indicating that a region of coun- 
try of three quarters of a mile square is underlayed by rock of similar 
character. 

Mr. Worthington has opened a new quarry on a hill about half a mile 
southwest, and by barometrical measurement 40.8 feet above the level of 
the northwest branch of Beaver Dam creek, at the stone saw-mill. This 
quarry is about three-quarters of a mile on the east side of the railroad. 
The upper masses are alone at present exposed. 

They are rather more disposed to crumble than the best quality of the 
old quarry rock, but it is far superior to the upper beds at that locality, 
and there is every reason to believe that the best quality of rock is not yet 
reached ; indeed, probe-holes have been already sunk three fieet into the 
floor of the present quarry, which show that there are solid ledges of 
white marble of the same texture beneath. 

The hill on which the new quarry is situated is estimated, at the low- 
est calculation, two hundred yards sqnare ; and it may be excavated for 
twenty-five feet in depth without being incommoded with water. 

Within the last five years, at least twenty-five thousand cubie feet of 
dimension-stone have been taken out of these two quarries. 

An experienced stonecutter of Baltimore, who has worked a great 
deal of fine-grained marble, thinks there may be some diOiculiy in pro- 
curing dimension-stone of that quality of greater thickness than twenty 
inches. The same individual is of opinion that Baker's lower qnarry 
might furnish a material of uniform color, of sreater thickness. He has 
work(;d both the fine and the coarse crystallized marbles of Baltimore 
county; and his experience is, that the fine-grained marble dulls the tool 
more than the " alum stone," and is more difficult to saw, because, as he 



29 [23] 

expressed it, the fine-grained rock contains most flint. He is, moreover, 
of opinion that the finegrained is rather more apt to stain. There is a 
difference of opinion, however, on these matters. An accurate chemical 
analysis would throw light on this subject. There is also a difference of 
opinion as to the presence and proportion of magnesia in the different 
samples of these rocks. Some contend that the coarse crystalline marbles 
contain most magnesia, and that none of these Baltimore marbles have 
less than five per cent, of that alkaline earth. These are points which 
can be alone settled by minute chemical researches. Such analysis 
would also throw much light on their comparative durability ; since, in 
the opinion of recent writers on this subject, the greater the proportion of 
accidental magnesia, the more liable ihe rock is to disintegrate until it 
reaches a quantity equivalent in proportion to the lime, and then unit'-s 
with it to form a true dolomite or magnesian limestone ; a very durable 
building-material, and the same which was selected, after careful research, 
for the exterior of the new Houses of Parliament in England. 

As already remarked, iron pyrites (bi-sulphuret of iron) occurs occa- 
sionally in these marbles, in nests, both at Worthington's and Baker's 
quarries; see specimen 10/?. This mineral is much prone to undergo 
chemical ciianges by the action of the oxygen of the atmosphere : the 
sulphur passes into the state of sulphuric acid, the iron into oxide of iron, 
forming copperas or bi-sulphate of iron, a salt easily soluble in water, 
which is gradually removed; leaving, of course, a cavity in which water 
may lodge and freeze, whilst at the same time the oxidation of the iron 
spreads a disagreeable ferruginous yellow stain around the spot. For this 
reason great cure should be, taken, in selecting marble, to reject all masses 
contauiinated with this mineral. 

The only locality in the neighborhood of Worthington's quarries 
where a marble of the structure of the " alum stone" was observed, is in 
the immediate vicinity of his dwelling house ; here, for a short distance, 
a white marble of that texture occupies the surface. Three hundred to 
four hundred yards beyond, on Prospect Hill, at a height of two hundred 
and twenty-one feet ,above the bed of the northwest branch of Beaver 
Dam creek, a highly ferruginous mica slate, charged with garnets, reaches 
the surface : tliis seems to be the boundary of tliat formation on the east. 
This garnetiferous micaceous schist may possibly serve to define the 
limits of the white marble formations, and may, perhaps, be the means of 
detecting these metanifU'phic marbles elsewhere. 

One mile north of Texas, close to the railroad, is a quarry owned by 
Chisilla Owens, and now worked by Mx. Cooper. The rock here is well 
bedded, and may be quarried with ease ; but the beds are, for the most 
part, thin, and there is an interlamiiiation of mica. Here the dip is to 
the northeast, in an opposite direction fiom what it is in the Texas quar- 
ries. There is a bed of white crystalline marble (" alum stone") m this 
quarry, of about two to two and a half feet thick ; whether it extends of 
uniform appearance and thickness through the hill, is not clearly i^eeii 
in the present state of the quarries. The blocks lying in the quarry are 
of very regular dimensions, and the surface comparatively even, but they 
are not large, and many of the beds are interlaminated with mica; see 
specimen No. 11. • i • i i 

In the vicinity of Texas is a quarry owned by Judge Nesbitt, which has 
afforded some good white marble of a rather finer grain than that of most of 



[ 28 ] 30 

the quarries in this vicinity; see specimen No. 12. I had not an op- 
portunity of examining this quarry in person. 

South of Fell and Robinson's quarry at Texas, on land owned by Mr. 
Cockey, there is some fine, white, close-grained crystalHne marble. It 
lies, however, low — not more than eight or ten feet above the bed of Cold 
Stream creek. The quarry is not open, so that one cannot judge of the 
bed. Mr. Cockey says the same kind of rock has been found half a 
mile west. This is the only proof of its being extensive. 

On the whole, it appears that there is a region of country extending 
for about two miles from north to south, and three-quarters to a mile from 
east to west, occupied by this marble, extending from the level of the 
water-courses to forty to forty-five feet above the same, and constituting 
the whole of the hills witliin this tract of country, not all of the purest 
white, but varying from a snow-white to a light blue. It may be esti- 
mated that about one-third is of tolerable purity, and either of the crystal- 
line texture or of the fine grained crystalline structure, approaching ia 
quality to the Carara. 

Nor can this be considered the limit of the formation. Scott's quarry, 
five miles beyond these, in the vicinity of the railroad, supplied a portion 
of the material for the Washington monument at Baltimore, and other 
quarries of white marble were pointed out to me from Prospect Hill, seve- 
ral miles off. 

It cannot be doubted that these quarries are capable of supplying an 
unlimited amount of fine building-material, either of the fine grained 
marble or of the '* alum stone." Whether the former could be obtained 
for the entire Smithsonian building, of a uniform color, free from gray 
spots and veins, is less certain; though Worthington confidently asserts, 
if he be permitted to supply white and faint-blue indiscriminately, similar 
to specimens Nos. 10 ro and 10 bl, he can furnish far more than the build- 
ing requires, without blemish. 

From all I have seen and heard, I incline to believe that the fine-grain- 
ed marble will be somewhat more expensive to cut than the ^'alum stone;" 
but, on the other hand, if the ornaments have bold projections, and much 
undercutting, the coarser '' alum stone" is unsuitable; it chips off more 
readily, and is less tough than the finer-grained varieties. 

The ''alum stone," as far as I can learn, works much like the West- 
chester marble; and if in the latter all the necessary Norman ornaments 
can be cut, so can they also, most probably, in the former. 

After the inspection of the Baltimore marble quarries, I proceeded, ac- 
cording to instructions, to the Point of Rocks, to examine Mr. Mc- 
Glauchren's quarries. 

I found them situated on Hook's run, two and a half to three miles 
west of the Point of Rocks, or about seventy-three miles from Baltimore, 
embraced in liighly disturbed, contorted, and deranged chloritic and tal- 
cose schists, and distant only about three miles from the brecciated Poto- 
mac marble formation. 

Nothing but hand specimens, and a ie\v^ surface rock for making lime, 
have been as yet procured here, so that there is but httle opportunity of 
judging the extent of the formation. The surface indications are not fa- 
vorable, neither as regards uniformity of texture and composition, nor yet 
extent of beds. 

The chloiitic schists dip here at a high angle to the south. The out- 



31 [ 23 ] 

crop of the white calcareous rock in question Hes at the base of a liill on 
Hook's run, about twenty to twenty-five feet high, and pitches at an an- 
gle of some forty five degrees into the base of the hill, which is here on 
a level with the bed of Hook's run, at the same time inclining to the west 
so that it is inaccessible except at great expense of labor. 

There is a sonrewhat better exposure of the Hook's rvm marble at a lit- 
tle higher level, on a hill a few hundred yards to the south; and here the 
best specimens were procured; see No. 15. Part of the ledge is com- 
posed of white calcareous layers, which are said to be susceptible of a 
pohsh. The rock at both places has a ragged, irregular, and uneven 
fracture, and is so interspersed with white and green talc, that it cannot be 
considered of much value as a building-material. It is possible that be- 
neath this a purer and better rock might be reached; but the surface indi- 
cations do not even favor that conclusion. Unless the bed should be brought 
to the surface by an upward turn of the contorted strata on the south side 
of this range of hills, there is no possibility of getting at it. Mr. Mc- 
Glauchren intends to try, if possible, to open a quarry, with a view to 
ascertain more satisfactorily the extent and quality of this material. 

On the whole, in its present situation, this marble seems worthless for 
the present purpose. 

During the examination of structures and monuments of Baltimore 
marble, both in Green Mount cemetery and in the city of Baltmiore, with 
a view to ascertain the durability and facility of working this material, I 
was so much struck with the beauty of some of the granite vaults and 
fronts of buildings that I determined to visit the quarries from whence 
this material was procured, more especially as the owner, Mr. Green, in- 
formed me that he v/as confident he could furnish it at a cheaper rate than 
the white marble could possibly be supplied, and as it was only two miles 
out of my way in returning from the Point of Rocks. 

Accordingly, I stopped at Woodstock, 1(3 miles beyond the Relay House, 
and inspected carefuhy the Watervdle branch and the Fox rock quarries in 
this vicinity; both of which are well opened, and aftbrd a good oppor- 
tunity of judging the quality and extent of this formation. 

For about a mile square at this locality is an outburst of quartzose granite 
of magnificent quality, both as regards beauty of appearance, compact- 
ness of structure, and uniformity of color, texture, and composition. I 
have never seen anything superior in this country; indeed, I doubt whether 
it can be excelled in any country. The proportion of felspar and mica is 
very sniall. The former is only in minute specks, the latter in small black 
scales, whilst the great bulk of the rock is a vitreous quartz. 

In consequence of the mica being only in small regular disseminated 
flakes, it imparts to the rock an agreeable light gray, well adapted, in my 
judgment, to the Norman style of architecture. 

In consequence of the composition and texture of this granite, it must 
possess a durability not to be surpassed by any building-material. For 
the same reason, it must be difficult and expensive to cut; but in conse- 
quence of the precision with which it splits, not only in the lines of 
cleavage, but even across the grain, it may possibly be furnished in com- 
petition with marble. 

To give some idea of the remarkable facility with which the granite in 
question cleaves, I may state the following facts, which came under my 
observation: A slab twenty feet long and one foot square was split longi- 
tudinally into two, nearly as accurately as if it had been sawed. 



[23] 



32 



Again, I observed two slabs — one measuring thirteen feet long, four feet 
six inches broad, and two feet thick ; the other eleven feet long, six feet 
broad, and two feet thick — v/hich were split ni two, so as to form slabs of 
the same dimensions in length and breadth, bnt only one foot thick ; and 
so perfect were the faces of cleavage, that they did not deviate one inch 
from a trne level surface. . 

So confident are the quarrymen of the certainty of splitting this granite 
in any required direction, when even of no greater thickness than nine 
inches or a foot, that they will, for the sake of having weight and sub- 
stance in the block to retain it in its position while under the hammer 
and chisel, first dress the two outside faces^ and trust to splitting the slab 
or block ni two. 

Fully to appreciate the quality of this granite, the quarries themselves 
must be visited, and the huge blocks in mass inspected as they are re- 
moved from tlieir original bed. There, one may see a perpendicular face 
of nineteen fiset presented to view, extending twenty, thirty, and even 
forty or fifty feet, without a seam or flaw, or the slightest variation in 
hue. A mass of forty or fifty tons weight may often be seen severed from 
the parent rock, by the simple but efficietit means of small iron wedges. 

On some slabs, by close inspection with the magnifying glass, a few 
minute specks of iron pyrites may be seen ; but none were observed vis- 
ible to the naked eye. 

Mr. Green thitiks nearly one-third of the freight may be saved by bring- 
ing the rock to its proper dimensions at the quarry. 

This granite does not spaul freely, but, in consequence of the facility 
jvith which it splits, but little spauling is required. 

From the bottom of the Waterville branch quarry to the summit of the 
outburst is forty feet, by barometrical measurement. 

The Fox rock quarry is thirty-six feet from top to bottom, where now 
excavated. It might be worked some fifteen or twenty feet lower before 
being incommoded by water. Mortar adheres with such force to this 
granite, that, when fairly set, it requires as much force to separate the 
substance of the granite as to detach the rnortar from the face. 

On the whole, the inspection of these granite quarries has impressed 
me with the belief that no locality can furnish a superior quality of gran- 
ite, and that it cannot be surpassed for strength and durability by any 
building-material in the world. 

The stonecutters' bill in granite will, I fear, run up very high, on ac- 
count of its great hardness ; but, if the expense be not an objection, I do 
not think that there will be any practical difficulty in rendering in granite 
ornamental work so little elaboraK; as that of the Norman style. 

An objection to the use of granite for the Smithsonian building deserves 
serious consideration. It is, that in this material the effect of light and 
shade is in a great measure lost; while every projecting ornament in the 
marble is marked by a distinct shadow. How far this may injure the 
general effect under the plan adopted, the committee will judge. Results 
of considerable practical importance may be obtained by an accurate 
chemical analysis, chiefly with reference to the proportion of silica, alu- 
mina, magnesia, and iron, affecting the durability, discoloration, and ex- 
pense of working. Time, however, did not permit this investigation. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

DAVID DALE OWEN. 

Washington, March 11, 1847. 



33 



[23] 



List of specimens referred to in the foregoing report. 

No. 1 Robinson and Fell's quarry. 

la Robinson and Fell's lower layer, close to Cold Spring creek. 

2 Griscom and Borrough's quarry. 

2a Griscom and Borrough's top layer, banded with light gray. 
2a6 Griscom and Borrough's fine grained, in nests. 

3 Symington's quarry, large-crystalled marble, 
3a Symington's quarry, sample of large blocks. 

4 Fell and Robinson's quarry, blue variety. 

5 Mrs. Taylor's quarry. 

ba Mrs. Taylor's quarry, crumbling layer. 

bh Mrs. Taylor's quarry, (see specimen with dark color on long ex- 
posed surface.) 

be Mrs. Taylor's quarry, banded with gray stripes. 

bd Chisilla Owens's quarry, fissured. 

6 Chisilla Owens's quarry. 

7 Worthington's (old) quarry. 

8 Baker and Conly's quarry. 

10 Worthington's (new) quarry. 
lOvz? Worthington's, white variety. 
106^ Worthington's, blue variety. 

11 Cooper's quarry, with veins of mica, 

12 Judge Nesbitt's quarry. 

13 Cockeyes quarry, compact white. 

14 Mica slate, with garnets. 

15 Point of Rocks quarry, Mr. McGlauchren's. 

16 Chloritic schist. Point of Rocks. 

17 Granite, Waterville branch quarry, near Woodstock. 
17a Granite, Fox rock quarry, near Woodstock. 

18 Granite, Fox rock quarry, near Woodstock. 

Laid on the table. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That Dr. Owen be requested to analyze the specimens of 
white marble, especially Mr. Worthington's and Mr. Symington's, and 
report thereon. 

The chairman laid before the committee letters recommending Mr. 
Richard C. Murry as superintendent. 

Laid on the table. 

The chairman laid before the committee a letter from Mr. John C. 
Rives, recommending Mr. Jones, of Washington city, as bricklayer. 

Laid on the table. 

The chairman laid before the committee a letter from Mr. Isaiah Lukins, 
of Philadelphia, relative to a town clock. 

Laid on the table. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

SIXTH MEETING— March 13, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Owen, and Hough. 

On motion of the chairman, it was 
Resolved, That Mr. Peter Gorman be requested to procure from Bull 
3 



[ 23 ] 34 

run quarry four perch of light gray freestone, to be dehvered on the canaL 
opposite Eighth street, and'be put up under the supervision of the archi- 
tect one half in broken rubble masonry, the other in range work — finished 

exactly in the manner in which the said architect recommends ; that ihe 
above styles, if adopted, should respectively be finished, so as to supply 
a sample wall, to which, if the above material be adopted, reference may 
be had in the contract. 

Mr. Seaton submitted a letter from I. Mudd, offering his services as 
superintendent ; also, a letter from A. B. McFarlan, regarding the specimen 
walls and Seneca freestone ; also, from the same, a draught of the quarries 
in the vicinity of Seneca creek ; also, from the mayor of Baltimore, and 
Mr. Long, architect, of that city, recommending Mr. Richard C. Murry 
as superintendent:* also, from Mr. M. W. Carter, of Fredericksburg, re- 
commending Seneca freestone, and offering his services; also from Mr. 
John T. Bryant, recommending to purchase one of Mr, Lukins's clocks. 
Philadelphia ; which letters, on motion, were 

Laid on the table. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

SEVENTH MEETING— March 15, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

Mr. Seaton submitted a letter from Robert Barnard, offering his ser- 
■idces as treasurer and accountant. 

Laid on the table. 

The chairman submitted a letter from Governor Francis Thomas, of 
Marjdand, asking an additional examination of the quarry at Point of 
Rocks, heretofore examined by Dr. Owen. 

Laid on the table. 

The chairman submitted from Mr. Samuel Worthington the following 
offer to supply marble for the Smithsonian building : 

Baltimore County, March 13, 1S47. 

Gextlejien : I will agree to furnish the necessary white marble for the 
erection of the above institution — say fiv^e thousand perch of rubble stone 
of the size of good building-stone, carefully broken, and placed upon the 
cars at Cockeysville — at the rate of one dollar and eighty-seven cents per 
perch of twenty -five feet; or, at one dollar and twenty cents per ton, as 
weighed by the railroad. 

I will agree also to furnish the dimension-stone in the block, and no 
block to contain less than two cubic feet, at the rate of sixty cents per 
cubic foot, and placed on the cars at the above-mentioned place ; or, by the 
ton, at six dollars per ton as taken from the quarry, if the stone should be 
wrought at the quarry, and the carved work completed there ; then, an 
addition of fifty cents per ton will be charged on all stone so worked, to 
be delivered say in the course of three years, or as may be required. 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

SAM'L WORTHINGTON. 

Messrs. Robert Dale Owen, and others, 

Building Committee Smithsonian Institution. 



* Note. — March IG, letters and application withdrawn. 



35 [ 23 ] 

Mr. Hough, from the sub-committee to whom were referred the specifi- 
cations of tlie architect, (James Renwick, jr.,) for the building for said in- 
stitution, made the following report : 

To the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen: I have carefully examined the specifications of the archi- 
tect, (James Renwick, jr., esq.,) for the building of said institution, and 
find them elaborately and minutely drawn, both in reference to detail of 
the work and permanence and durability of the structure. Few, if any, 
omissions can be discovered, and but few alterations seem to be required 
for the permanence and durability of the edifice, or for its better security 
against destruction by fire. 

It has been suggested by one of the committee, that the width and 
depth of the foundation trenches, and, as a consequence, the foundation 
walls, might with safety be diminished, the inverted arches and the con- 
crete foundations be entirely dispensed with, and consequently with a 
considerable saving of expense. 

In such a conclusion I cannot, without further information, concur. 

^V hether its foundation trenches may or may not be diminished in 
depth, will, in my opinion, depend upon the peculiar formation or strata 
of the earth, which can only be determined by making the necessary 
borings or excavations. 

if, upon experiment, the strata shall be found to consist of firm indu- 
rated clay or gravel of sufficient depth for permanence, the depth may be 
diminished ; otherwise, not. 

But in no event could I recommend a diminution of width ; nor would 
1 dispense with either the inverted arches or the concrete foundation ; 
deeming both very essential in preventing an unequal settlement and 
cracking of the walls of the edifice. I consider the concrete much better 
adapted to permanence of foundation than any ordinary structure of rock 
alone, and in no respect more expensive; and, in so ponderous a struc- 
ture, all architects and constructors of experience concur in recommend- 
ing inverted arches to preserve a uniformity of settling between the open- 
ings and solids of the building. I would, however, recommend a reser- 
vauon in the contract for the construction of the building, of the right to 
diminish the depth of the foundations, with a pro rata reduction of price 
in case the strata or character of the earth shall be found to admit of it 
in the opinion of the architect. It may be found, also, that the thickness 
of the walls of some of the towers, and perhaps the walls of the buildings 
throughout, may with safety be diminished; and I would recommend a 
like reservation in the contract to meet this contingency also. 

The idea of constructing the principal stairs in such an edifice with 
wood, does not, in my estimation, well comport with public opinion, either 
as to permanence, durability, and appearance, or with the character of 
the age in which the edifice is to be erected. 

i recommend, therefore, without hesitation, if the funds will possibly 
admit of it, that the principal stairs of both the north and south central 
entrances to the principal building be constructed of stone, as high, at 
least, as the museum floor. 

I also recommend that the wood tesselated floor of the museum be dis- 
pensed with, and that, instead thereof, there be a single lloor of li-inch 
yellow pine plank, with the intention of covering it with stone or compo- 



[ 23 ] 36 

sition flagging at a future day ; or, what I would deem preferable, dispense 
with the wood floor altogether at first, and raise the deafening above so as 
to cover the floor-beams, upon which lay a floor of stone flagging. This 
it is beHeved may be done at a small expense over the wood Mosaic, be 
greatly more secure against fire, and require much less expense in clean- 
ing and repairs. 

1 would also recommend as a security against fire, in case of the burning 
of the roof, that a rough floor be laid upon the beams above the upper 
ceiling, next to ihe roof, throughout the building, and covered with a suita- 
ble thickness of lime-water cement ; over which, when dried, a covering of 
common salt, or a cement of salt and ashes, be evenly spread, carefully 
filling all the cracks or crevices of the cement. 

This is the French method of fire- proofing the upper part of build- 
ino^s, and has been to some extent adopted in some sections of this coun- 
try with entire success. This would be attended with comparatively little 
expense, and would, it is believed, render the body of the building en- 
tirely secure against destruction by fire incase the roof should be burnt. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

WM. J. HOUGH. 

Washington, March 15, 1847. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Hough be requested to examine into the expedi- 
ency of dispensing with any portion of ornamental stucco in the build- 
ing. 

The chairman submitted from Dr. Owen the following 

Report on the sandstmies of the Potomac. 

After completing the report of the white marbles and granite of Balti- 
more county, Maryland, I proceeded, according to instructions, on the 
afternoon of the ilth of March, to inspect the quarries of sandstone in 
the neighborhood of Seneca creek, Montgomery county, Maryland. 

About 2\.\ miles from Washington city, on the line of the Chesapeake 
and Ohio canal, the talcose and chloritic schists of the Great falls of the 
Potomac are succeeded by freestone and marly beds of the new red sand- 
stone forination. These deposites are of various colors, from a light 
greenish-gray, or dove-color, to a deep red or brown. 

Tne first quarry visited is situated on Bull run, 23 miles from Wash- 
ington. The excavations have hitherto been carried on from 250 to 300 
yards on the north side of the canal ; but the ledges of rock extend down 
to its margin, and can be quarried with nearly as much laciiity a few 
paces from the canal as where operations are now carried on. 

The dip of the stratification slopes at an angle of 15° or 20*^ up- 
wards from Bull run. The beds, suitable, both as regards color, durabili- 
ty, and ease with which they can be cut, are fortunately near the surface 
in the ravine ot Bull run. By commencing quarrying operations near 
the bed of this stream, and working up the western slope, blocks of large 
dimensions can be obtained with comparatively little labor. The beds 
whicti have been chiefly worked here are layers of a deep red color, (see 
specimen No. 18,) and layers of a purplish-gray, (No. 19,) which, by expo- 
sure, acquire a lighter and more pinky hue. The latter is the rock most 



37 [ 23 ] 

suitable for building purposes, its color being agreeable, and, in the opin- 
ion of men of good judgment and taste, appropriate for the Norman style 
of architecture. Tliis rock possesses one property in particular which 
recommends it to the attention of builders. When first removed tiom 
the parent bed, it is comparatively soft, working freely before the chisel 
and hammer, and can even be cut with a knife: by exposure, it gradually 
indurates, and ultimately acquires a toughness and consistency that not 
only enables it to resist atmospheric vicissitudes, but even the most severe 
mechanical wear and tear. Abundant evidence of this is afforded in the 
buildings of the neighborhood, in several of the locks and aqueducts, and 
also in ledges and blocks exposed in the bed of Bull run. The deep red 
varieties have been chiefly used in these structures. By close inspection 
of slabs exposed now 20 years to atmospheric agencies and severe me- 
chanical friction, the mark of the dressing-chisel is still sharply imprint- 
ed in the surface. On the perpendicular wall of the aqueduct, where the 
water has been oozing through the joints and trickling down its face, 
forming an incrustation of carbonate of lime, one may observe, where 
this calcareous crust has scaled off, the grooves and ridges of the surface 
still nearly as distinct as when the block first came from the hand of the 
stonecutter. 

The angles and edges of the keystones of the arch, placed under these 
most unfavorable circumstances, are sharp and entire. Only one or two 
blocks of this work of 20 years' standing show signs of decay; but these 
seem to be such as either have not been well selected, or have been 
placed on the edge in the wall. 

Even the tow-path of this aqueduct, over which the horses and mules 
have been travelling for 20 years, is still unimpaired. Even the corners 
around which the heavy lock-gates swing, show no signs of chipping. 
Blocks were pointed out to me in the bed of Bull run, which had been 
rejected by the engineers as being of too soft and perishable a nature, and 
which have been exposed for 20 years to the action of running water and 
alternate thawing and freezing, which exhibit little or no alteration, ex- 
cept that they have become so indurated that. they turn the edge of the 
chisel, and are a little dingy on the surface. 

Mr. Peter, on whose property this quarry is situated, has built a fine 
barn of these freestones. He assures me that there are stones in that 
barn 50 years old, which have been in three buildings. On one corner- 
stone, where the figures " 1824" had been cut in that year by the point of 
a jienknife, the rock now is so hard that it would soon turn the edge of 
a well-tempered tool. 

Interstratified with these grit-stones are some argillaceous, marly-look- 
ing beds, (No. 20,) especially prevalent towards the upper outcrop of the 
stratified mass constituting these hills. These layers are, of course, ennre- 
ly unfit for any kind of building purposes. The sandstone beds differ 
very much, not only in color, but also in hardness and texture. Some 
are fine-grained, and can be wrought to a sharp arris ; others are coarse- 
grained, and even assume the character of a conglomerate: these latter, of 
course, are entirely unfit for the finer purposes of architecture. Amongst 
a series varying so much, not only in color, but in texture and composi- 
tioM, a careful selection becomes a matter of the utmost importance. 

About a quarter of a mile further west, in a bold escarpment oi 20 or 
30 feet in height, close to the margin of the canal, is the " College quar- 



[23] 



38 



ry." Here the strata assume a somewhat different character. Above, 
they are of a crumbUng, argillaceous, marly nature, producing a retentive 
soil", well adapted for the growth of wheat and corn ; beneath these disin- 
tegrating beds are red and rather argillaceous freestones of an inferior 
quahty, which pass downwards into hght greenish-gray beds, varying 
from a foot to two or two and a half feet in thickness. 

At about fifteen feet from the top is the most important bed exposed in 
the quarry, of a grep.nish-gray hue, usually called the " dove-colored bed;" 
see specimen No. 21. Beneath this, as far as can be ascertained from 
the rubbish strewed over the lower face of the quarry, are brown and 
bluish-purple beds, (No. 22,) of inferior quality. Here, as at Bull run, the 
strata dip to the west at an angle of about 15° or 20° ; so that the middle 
layers crop out towards the summit of the hill. Near the top the dove- 
colored bed is two feet thick. Sixty feet down the slope of dip it has in- 
creased to four feet; forty-five feet more, it is six feet; and fifty-four feet 
more, it is nine feet thick. At the same rate of increase to the west, be- 
yond where it is exposed to near the level of the canal, it would be twelve 
to thirteen feet. The color of this bed is rather cold, but it is much ad- 
mired by some persons. It is faintly striped parallel to the stratification, 
(see 21a); it has also some small faint spots, or "pock," as the stone- 
masons call it, (see 2la), not quite so hard as the body of the rock. This 
stratum is not near so easily worked as the best beds in Bull run quarry ; 
indeed it is harder to work than marble. If this dove-colored bed is 
worked extensively, there will be considerable expense incurred in strip- 
ping, since there are fifteen feet of solid strata overlaying it. 

A few hundred yards west of this is another quarry, equally bold, and 
composed of similar beds, their tints being for the most part gray, green- 
ish gray, and dove-colored. 

Beyond this, along the canal, the ground is flat and wet, and the hills 
recede towards the north, so that to the Avest of the last described quarry, 
for fifteen or twenty miles, building-material cannot be procured so con- 
venient to navigation. 

Between the College quarry and Bull run there are several localities 
close to the canal, where some rock has been quarried. The beds ex- 
posed are of warm red tints, similar to the red sandstones in Bull run. 
At these quarries, and in Bull run, the material for the construction of the 
aqueduct and locks in this part of the Ohio and Chesapeake canal were 
obtained, lliese works have stood the test of time as well, if not better, 
than any of the other structures along the whole line of this improve- 
ment. 

The investigations in the vicinity of Seneca creek prove conclusively 
that the blufis on the banks of the canals, for about three-quarters of a 
mile, afford abundance of freestone for building purposes, equal and even 
superior to those which are obtained in the quarries of New Jersey, which 
supply the New York market. 

If this freestone should ultimately become the choice of the building 
committee of the Smithsonian institution, a very careful selection will be 
necessary not only as regards the particular color preferred, hut that it be 
those softer varieties of pure grit-stone, free from all argillaceous or marly 
admixture, and containing none of those " pock" marks, or small spots 
and cavities, which not only injure its appearance, but detract from its 



39 f 23 ] 

otherwise durable nature. They must also, to insure durability, be in all 
cases laid on the bed as in the natural position in the quarry. 

The singular property which the best quality of these freestones pos- 
sesses, of hardening by exposure, is one of its most valuable characteristics ; 
permitting it to be wrought ai less expense than marble, and imparting to 
it a durability which increases with age. It has been a question, whether 
this property is due to iron in its composition, passing from a lower to a 
higher degree of oxidation, or to the presence of a sub-carbonate of lime, 
becoming gradually by exposure a carbonate of hme, and acting as a ce- 
ment to the particles of silex. A minute chemical analysis would no 
doubt throw light on this matter. It might prove that this phenomenon 
depends on some other properly not yet suggested. 

This same property of hardening by exposure is possessed in a remark- 
able degree by a building-stone which has been excavated for centuries 
from St. Peter's mountain, in the vicinity of Maestrich, in Belgium, and 
which is the terminating member of the cretaceous formation of the Mc- 
sozoic period. This rock is a calcareous freestone, and is generally sup- 
posed to owe its hardening property to a chemical change which takes 
place in the calcareous cement. The Seneca freestone, however, does 
not effervesce in mass with acid ; and this fact militates against the idea of 
its indurating property being due to any peculiar form of carbonate of lima. 

In concluding this report, it may not be out of place briefly to advert 
to two letters which I addressed from Indiana, under date the 22d and 
25th of October last, to one of your committee, (the Hon. VVm. J. Hough,) 
on the subject of the sandstones of the Potomac, which at that time I 
had not seen. In these letters, (judging from the fact shown from a geo- 
logical map in my possession, that the red sandstone formation which fur- 
nishes highly-prized building-material in New Jersey and Pennsylvania 
passes thence to the southward, and crosses the Potomac at Noland's 
ferry, descending that river on the Maryland side and crossing Monocacy 
and Seneca creeks,) I took the hberty of suggesting the importance of a 
careful examination of these localities, before selection was made of a 
more distant and expensive building-material. Mr. Hough will recollect 
that the second of these letters contains the following paragraph : "It 
seems indeed strange, that, if really good and durable freestones are to be 
had on the canal or river above Washington, these should not already 
have been used for the public edifices there ; but sufficient examples are 
to be found of the very best building-material having been overlooked 
through a long series of years, even in the vicinity of populous cities, m 
lack of minute and discriminating examination. My own firm belief is, 
that a durable sandstone, equal or nearly equal to that used in Trinity 
church, can be discovered in sufficient quantities in the vicinity of the 
Potomac or the canal." 

It may afford some evidence of the confidence with which geological 
science may be appealed to in search of practical results, that an actual ex- 
amination of one of the localities above designated has fully confirmed all, 
and more than all I had anticipated concerning the material they furnish. 

I annex a rough sketch of the College and Bull run quarries, showing 

the dip of the strata and the shape of the escarpments along the bank of 

the canal, where the freestone is found. 

All which is respectfully submitted. „ _„,„.,. 

^ ^ DAVID DALE OWEiN. 

Washington, March 15, 1847. 



[ 23 ] 40 

List of specimens referred to in the foregoing report. 

18. Red Potomac sandstone, Bull run, near Seneca creek, Montgomery 
county, Maryland. 

19. Grayish-purple or pink variety of sandstone, Bull run, near Seneca 
creek, Montgomery county, Maryland. 

20. Disintegrating argillaceous beds, College quarry, west of Bull run, 
Montgomery county, Maryland. 

21. Dove-colored bed, College quarry, west of Bull run, Montgomery 
county, Maryland. 

2)fl!. Banded variety of 21. 

22. Purple and brown beds. No. 21, College quarry, west of Bull run, 
Montgomery county, Maryland. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

EIGHTH MEETING— March 16, 184T. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Washington, March 15, 1847. 

The subscriber will furnish all the stone necessary for the cutting for 
the Smithsonian Institution upon the dock at Washington, for the follow- 
ing prices : 

For East Chester marble, such as the Post Office Department is built 
of, for the sum of seventy-five cents per cubic foot. 

Mount Pleasant or Sing Sing marble, from the Mount Pleasant prison, 
for the sum of fifty-five cents per cubic foot. 

JAMES HALL, 
Westchester County, New York. 
Hon. Robert Dale Owen. 
Wm. J. Hough. 
W. W. Seaton. 

P. S. — I will name Horace Butler and James Poster, both of the city 
of New York, as security for the faithful performance of the above. 

JAMES HALL. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Baltimore, March 15, 1847. 

AVe, the undersigned, do hereby agree to deliver to the committee of said 
institution white crystallized marble for rubble work, on the cars at the 
quarry, in pieces weighing from 75 to 3,000 lbs. each, at ^2 20 for 3,000 
lbs. ; it being considered equal to one perch of stone. 

If the range work should be adopted, we will agree to deliver the stone, 
as per specification of 8 in bed, at the building in Washington, at 50 
cents per superficial foot. 

We will also agree to furnish the dimension-stone, delivered at the 
building in Washington, at 53 cents per cubic foot for stone not exceed- 
ing 1,0U0 lbs. in weighty from 1,000 to 2,000 lbs., 57 cents ; from 2,000 



41 [ 23 ] 

to 3,000 lbs., 65 cents ; and from 3,000 to 4,000 lbs., 72 cents per cubic 
foot. 

We name M. S. and J. T. for our security. 
Respectfully, 

GRISCOM <fc BORROUGH. 
To the Building Committee 

of the ISuiUlisonian Instittition. 

P. S. — We should like to furnish the lime for the building, also, and 
would deliver it at a reasonable price. 

G. & B. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Baltimore, March 15, 1847. 

We will agree to deliver to the committee crystallized marble in blocks^ 
ior rubble work^ weighing from 100 to 300 lbs. each, on the car at the quar- 
ry, at f 2 for 3,01)0 lbs., this amount to be considered equal to a perch of 
sione ; and should the range work be adopted, with 8 to 10-inch bed, 
then we will agree to deliver stone at 49 cents per superficial foot at the 
huiiditig ; and for dimension-stone ^ not exceeding 1,000 lbs., 50 cents per 
cubic foot; and from 1,000 to 2,000 lbs., 53 cents ; 2,000 to 3,000 lbs., 55 
cents; and all other stone, from 3,000 to 5,0U0 lbs., 60 cents. And we 
would also wish to contract for the lime, and name for our securities C. 
C. A. and J. S. S. 

Very respectfully, 



FELL & ROBINSON. 



To the Committee 

of the Smithsonian Institution. 



i 



The chairman laid before the committee the following letter: 

Washington, March 15, 1847. 
I propose to sell to the building committee of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution the right to quarry such stone as they or their agent may select in 
my quarry, at the rate of fifty cents per perch. My quarry is situate im- 
mediately upon the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad. 

The stone can be placed upon the cars from the quarry with very little 
labor. The distance from Baltimore per railroad is 15 miles. 

E.J.COOPER, 
79 South High Street ^ Baltimore. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter: 

Baltimore, March 15, 1S47. 

Gentlemen: We propose to furnish from the Fox Rock granite 
and Waterville quarries, in Baltimore county, stone for building the 
Smithsonian Insutution, of the same color and quality as that used in tue 
rear of the General Post Office, at the following prices : 

The rough rubble stone, delivered at the depot in Washington city, at 
16 cents per foot. 



[ 23 ] 42 

The dimension-stone, for fine work, at 46 cents per cubic foot. 
The split ashlar, in place of the rough rubble stone, we will furnish at 
37^ cents per foot. 

The above prices are estimated, provided the price of freight on the rail- 
road is reduced to 2^ cents per ton per mile. 
All of which is respectfully submitted. 

SUMWALS, GREEN, & CO. 
Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 
Wm. J. Hough, 
W. W. Seatox, 

Uo'/nmitiee. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter: 

Washington City, March 15, 1S47. 

Gentlemen: I propose to deliver what lime maybe wanted in the 
erection and finishujg of the Smiihsonian Institution, in this city, at forty 
cents per bushel. 

The hme shall be burnt from the best alum stone, with wood, and shall 
be warranted of the first quality. 

I will guaranty that two bushels and a peck shall be sufficient for lay- 
ing a thousand brick, provided proper sand is used. 

E. J. COOPER, 
79 South High Street^ Baltimore. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Washington City, March 15, 1S47. 

The undersigned proposes to furnish the white pine and yellow pine 
necessary for the Smithsonian Institution at the following prices: 

200,000 b. m. white pine timber, at S23. 

75,000 f b. m. yellow pine narrow boards, in the rough, at $2Q 50. 

75,000 f b. m. ditto, dressed, tongued and grooved, at $37. 

25,000 b. m. white pine plank, at $30. 

Common cuUings, at !^14. 

The above to be delivered here free of charge, and in such quanti- 
ties as may be ordered, from time to time. 

JOHN PURDY. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

March 7, 1S47. 

Sir: I have seen, from the proposals for the construction of the insti- 
tution, that stone from the upper Potomac may be used in the building. 
I will take leave to inform you that I have quarries of the red sandstone 
within a short distance of boat navigation, from which were constructed 
the aqueduct and locks at and below the mouth of Seneca. The quarry 
will either be sold, or otherwise, as may best suit the views of the par- 



43 [ 23 ] 

ties. I shall be pleased to have a call before engagements be entered into, 
for the purpose of inspection. 

Respectfully, 

CHARLES VINSON, 

Near Seneca Mills. 
To the Contractor 

on the Smithsonian lastitntion. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Washington, March 15, 1S47. 

Gentlemen : I will furnish bricks, lime, cement, and sand, and lay 
the same, for fourteen dollars and seve\nty-five cents per thousand. The 
materials shall be of the best quality, and the workmanship done in the 
best manner ; and will give for securities for the peformance of the same, 
John C. Rives and Wm. H. Gunnell, esquires. 

Yours, &c., 

ZEPHANIAH JONES. 
To the Building Committee 

of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter: 

Washington City, March 15, 1S47. 

I hereby propose to furnish the material and lay one million bricks, ac- 
cording to plan and specification, for the sum of eleven thousand five 
hundred dollars. 

Yours, very respectfully, 

J. KAY. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Washington, March 15, 1847. 

Gentlemen : The undersigned proposes to furnish and lay all the 
bricks that may be required about the Smithsonian Institution, to wit: 

In the walls, per thousand, measured, nine dollars and sixty-two and a 
half cents. 

Or, per cubic foot, fourteen and the fourth of a cent. 

All the bricks to be hard ; lime of the best Potomac stone ; sand clean 
and sharp. 

If these amounts satisfy the honorable committee and the architect, 
then it is time, I hope, (in my opinion,) to furnish a security, or retain a 
per centage on a certain amount of money, for the faithful compliance 
with this bid. 

Yours, with respect, 

THOMAS LE^VIS. 

To the Building Committee 

of the Smithsonian Institvtioji. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter: 



[23] 



44 



Washington, March 15, 1S47. 

I propose to furnish one million of the best hard brick, for the Smith- 
sonian Institution, at f uir dollars and ninety three cents per thousand. 

I propose to furnish the best hard brick for 175,000 cubic feet of 
backing, at four dollars and ninety-three cents per thousand. 

E. KINGMAN. 
Hon. R. D. Owen, 
W. J. Hough, 
W. W. Seaton, 
Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution. 

I offer Messrs. Tyson and Brickley as my securities for the perform- 
ance of the contract. 

E.K. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Proposals to deliver to (he building comrnitfee of the Smifhsonian Institu- 
tion, at (he site of their building in. Washington., white marble in the rub- 
ble y and in the range and cube form. 

For every perch of 3,100 lbs., in such shape as will facilitate the 
preparation by the mason, and in sizes of 70 to 300 lbs., $4 60. 

For range work, with split faces, bedded to make a joint not over half 
an inch, and roughly pitched off to a line in courses of 10 to 18 inches, 
per superficial foot, measured face only, 47 cents. 

For marble in the cube form, quarried as near the size wanted as 
practicable, per cubic foot, (large crystal,) 50 cents. 

Medium crystal from my quarry, 62^ cents. 

Fine crystal from my Owens quarry, in small blocks for foliage work, 
70 cents. 

My bondsmen are John W. Brown and Wm. Baily, esquires, of Balti- 
more. 

THOS. SYMINGTON. 

Washington City, March 15, 1847. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Proposals by George Crest., of New Cumberland., Pennsylvania, by his 
assent, Thomas Symington, of Baltimore, to deliver in Washini^ton. 
city., for tlce building nj the Smithsonian Insiitution.yivhite pine saived 
timber., viz : 

For all white pine sawed timber, to diminution size, out of good sound 
logs, delivered in Washington city, on the landing, per 1,000 feet (board 
measure) $18. 

[Note. — In case the freight from Havre-de-Grace is less than three dol- 
lars per M., a corresponding reduction will be made. In all cases the 
building committee are required to pay the captains the freight from Havre- 
de-Grace to Washington city. The said freight will be as part payment 
for the lumber.] 

Mr. Crist is proprietor of one of the largest saw-mills on the Susque- 
hanna river. He is a responsible man, and has directed me to say that he 



45 [ 23 ] 

will give the necessary bonds, either from his own neighborhood or from 
Baltimore. 

He further states, that he would like to deliver the whole quantity 
during the ensuing season. If desirable, a sample of his lumber can be 
seen at the U. S. arsenal, GreenleaPs point, delivered there some two or 
three years ago. 

THOS. SYMINGTON. 

Baltimore, March 15, 1847. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Proposals to deliver to the building committee of the Smithsonian Institii' 
tion, at the site of their building in Washington city, white marble 
ashlar. 

For ashlar with horizontal pointed face, as sample No. 3, in the base- 
ment of the City Hall, 6 inches bed, per superficial foot, measured face 
only, 49 cents. 

For ditto, averaging eight inches bed, 63 cents. 

For ditto, machine-dressed face, as sample No. 4, averaging 6 inches 
bed, 49 cents. 

For ditto, averaging 8 inches bed, 63 cents. 

For split ashlar, in range courses of 10 to 18 inches, from my Owens 
quarry, from whence sample No. 4 was procured, bedded, so as to make 
a joint not over half an inch, average 6 inches bed per superficial foot, 
measured face only, 40 cents ; and to have a draught cut all round the edges 
on the face. 

For ditto, as above, averaging 8 inches bed, per superficial foot, face 
only, 49 cents. 

I name the following gentlemen as my bondsmen, viz : John W. 
Brown and William Baily, esqs., of Baltimore. 

THOS. SYxMINGTON. 

Washington City, March 15, 1847. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Proposals for cutting marble for the buildings of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, the marble to be that which is procured from the large or medium 
crystal quarries near Baltimore. 

FOR CUTTING. 

Steps, if square, worked fine, square droved or rubbed, per superficial 
foot, 35 cents. 

It worked with the tooth chisel, (as sample No. 2, deposited in the 
sample room,) per superficial foot, 25 cents. 

Measure length by girth ; if the ends show, add thickness to length. 

Water-table, splayed, without members, fine cut or rubbed, per super- 
ficial foot, 40 cents. 

If tooth-chiselled, 30 cents. 

If moulded, add ten cents per superficial foot lineal for each member} 
measure length by girth from wall to wall. 



[ 23 ] 46 

Plain ashlar, fine cut or rubbed, per superficial foot, 35 cents. 
Tooth chiseled, 25 cents. 
Measure face only. 

Plinth and base course of all the door and window jambs and mullions : 

Fine cut and rubbed, per superficial foot, $1 50. 

Tooth-chiselled, SI 10- 

Measure the height of course for the length ; and for the girth, girt from 
where the course joins the ashlar in front, around the bases, to where the 
fine work ceases. 

[Note. If any foliage is to be cut upon any of the bases, an extra 

price will be charged for the foliage ; to be determined by the architect. 
The general rule to be observed, in all such cases, will be to allow the con- 
tractor a fair per centage over the operator's charge for the said work.] 

Doors and window jambs, arches and mullions : 

If plain splayed, fine cut, and rubbed, per superficial foot, 40 cents. 

Tooth-chiselled, 30 cents. 

Measured length, by girth from ashlar in front, to casing; for the circle 
or arch, add one half measure. 

If moulded with one or more rebats and columns, fine cut, or rubbed, 
per superficial foot, ^1 10. 

Tooth -chiselled, per superficial foot, SO cents. 

Measure the height of each course for the length ; and for the girth, 
girt fiom the ashlar in front around the mouldings to the casing m the 
rear ; add for the arch a half measure. 

[Note. — If any of the members are to receive a cable cord, zig-zag, or 
other device, which must be worked upon the member after it shall have 
been finished, for the price per lineal foot of such device apply rule No. 1.] 

Foliage caps : 

For engaged columns of 5 inches diameter and under, finely cut, and 
rubbed, each $4. 

Rough cut, each ^2. 

[Note. — The course on which ihey are cut will be measured, and 
charged as a portion of the door or window jamb.] 

Foliage caps, moderately plain : 

For disengaged columns of 5-inch diameter and under, finely cut, and 
rubbed, each $10. 

Roughly cut, !^6. 

For disengaged columns of 12-inch and under, finely cut, and rubbed, 
each $35. 

Roughly cut, each $20. 

Circular label mouldings over doors and windows : 

If not over 12 inches girth, finely cut, per lineal foot, $1 10. 
Tooth-chiselled, SO cents. 

[Note. — The stones on which it is cut are measured and charged 
according to their class.] 



47 [ 23 ] 

Foliage drops, brackets, or modellions' buttresses, (apply rule No. 1 :) 

If finely cut, or rubbed, per superficial foot, 40 cents. 
Tooth-chiselled, 30 cents. 

Bleasured as ashlar. 
Buttress caps, plain splayed, finely cut, per lineal foot, 40 cents. 
Tooth-chiselled, 30 cents. 

Moulded, per foot lineal, finely cut, etc , SO cents. 
Tooth-chiselled, 65 cents. 

Measured along the eave. 
[Note.— The course on which the cap is cut is measured and charged 
according to its class.] 

Corbel courses : 

(Such as the one that extends around three sides of the north front 
porch, which is 3^ feet high. The upper course as plain ashlar ; the lower 
course, measure tace and bed, and priced as ashlar.) 

For sinking the arches, each finely cut, j^3 50. 

Tooth-chiselled, $2 50. 

For sinking arches of less size, in proportion. 

Label mould, with octagon front, over corbel courses : 

Per superficial foot, finely cut, or rubbed, 45 cents. 

Tooth-chiselled, 35 cents. 

Measure length by girth of what shows. 

Hook label, or similar moulded courses : 

Per superficial foot, finely cut, $1 10. 

Tooth chiselled, 80 cents. 

Measured length by girth of what shows. 

Battlements over front porch, and all similar work : 

Per superficial foot, finely cut, 35 cents. 
Tooth-chiselled, 25 cents. 
Measure as ashlar. 

Battlements, cap or coping, if plain or splayed : 

Same as plain octagon label course. 
If moulded, according to its class. 

Window sills : 

Splayed, per superficial foot, finely cut, and rubbed, 45 cents = 

Tooth-chiselled, 35 cents. 

[Note. — If part of the plinths of the window jambs or mullions are 
worked upon the splay, or if a check is sunk in the splay, to receive the 
sill, for the plinth or check apply rule No. 1.] 

Circular windows : 

The arch jamb, the same as their class. For the mullions, caps, and 
plinth, the same as their class; for the centre piece and tracery, apply 
rule No. 1. 



[28] 



48 



Interlaced arches, the columns, caps, &c. : 
For the interlaced arching, apply rule No. 1. 
For the columns, caps, and bases, measure and charge as their class. 

Cornice or coping : 

Octagonal face, finely cut, and rubbed, per superficial foot, 40 cents. 

Tooth-chiselled, 3U cents. 

If moulded, according to its class. 

Measure top bed and girth of face. 

Finials : apply rule No. 1. 

Corbel course, or central front tower, and all such : 

Each course according to its class. 

For the band or panelled course, apply rule No. 1. 

Sill course of semicircle and fillet, and 5 sides of octagon : 

Finely cut, and rubbed, per superficial foot, 80 cents. 

Tooth-chiselled, 70 cents. 

Measure length by girth of what shows. 

Panelled arcade: apply rule No. 1. 

Pinnacles on principal tower: 

Finely cut, and rubbed, each $240 68. 
Tooth-chiselled, each |208. 

Flagging: 

Square marble tile, 2^ inches thick, and 12 to 24 inches square, of two 
colors, delivered at the building ready for laying, per superficial foot, 35 
cents. 

Marble tile : 

1^ inch thick, and 4 to 6 inches of two or more colors, per superficial 
foot, dehvered ready for laying, 50 cents. 

1;^ inch thick, and 11 to 12 inches square, delivered and ready for 
laying, per superficial foot, 35 cents. 

The aforegoing list of articles and prices will embrace all the kinds of 
cut marble work about the building. I will comply with the printed 
specifications, (subject to the foregoing rule,) and all requirements stated 
in the advertisements for proposals. 

My bondsmen are John W. Brown and William Daily, esqs., of Balti- 
more. 

Dowels and clamp holes : 

For every |-inch hole, sunk 3 inches, 2 cents. 
For every 1-inch hole, sunk 3 inches, 3 cents. 
If sunk more, in proportion. 

THOS. SYMINGTON. 
Baltimore, 3!larch 13, 1847. 



49 ' [ 23 ] 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Baltimore, March 15, 1847. 
Gentlemen : We propose to cut and dress all the fine Avork mouldings, 
&c., for the Smithsonian Institution, at ($3) three dollars per cubic foot. 
We will also build all the stone-masonry at $2 per perch, mason measure- 
ment, except the concrete under the foundations, which is not embraced 
m this proposal. 

Respectfully submitted. 

SUMWALS, GREEN & CO. 
Hon. RoET. Dale Owen, 
Wm. J. Hough, 

W. W. S EATON, 

Commiltee. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Washington, March 15, 1847. 

Gentlemen: I propose to build and construct the items of the Smith- 
sonian institution, herein contained, in a workmanlike manner, agreeably 
to the plans and specifications of the architect, for the following aggregate 
sum, VIZ : Digging foundations, concrete, rough stone in foundation be- 
low the superstructure, setting the rubble-facmg, and cut-stone work of 
all parts of the building, and back-filling the same; sess-pools and flag- 
ging for the foundations of partition walls — furnishing all the materiaLs, 
except the rubble-facing and cut stone— for the sum of thirty-six thousand 
two hundred and fifty dollars. 

Note. — The material for scaffolding, the brick and brick work, and the 
north room flagging, are not included in the above. If I furnish the iron 
cramps, dowels and anchors, the price v/ill be six cents per pound. In 
case range work is adopted instead of the rubble-facing, one thousand 
dollars will be deducted from the above. 

I refer you to the following gentlemen: Chas. B. Fisk, esq., chief en- 
gineer on the Chesapeake and Ohio canal; A. B. McFarlan, esq., Robert 
Brown, and Andrew Small, esq., of Washington city. 1 name for my 
bondsmen Mr. Jno. Higham, of Baltimore, and Andrew Small, esq., of 
Washington city. 

JAMES MACPHERSON. 

To the Building Committee 

of the Smithsonian Institutiov . 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Washington, March 15, 1847. 
Gentlemen : I do hereby agree to furnish all the materials and per- 
form tlie brick work of the building, according to the plan and specifica- 
tion agreed upon by the Regents of the said institution, for the sum of 
twenty thousand three hundred and fifty dollars, (.!Ui20,350.) 

Or, I will furnish and lay one million of hard bricks for the sum of 
fifteen thousand dollars, ($15,0U0..) 
4 



[23] 



50 



Or I will furnish all materials, provided all the outer walls are backed 
up with brick in the place of rubble-stone, for the sum of thirteen dollars 
and forty cents per thousand, (f 13 40.) 

GEORGE H. PLANT. 
To the Building Committee 

of lite Smithsonian Institution. 

P. S. — If my bid be accepted, I am prepared to give the security re- 
quired. Gr. H. P. 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter : 

Frederick County, March 15, 1847. 

The undersigned regrets very much that he did not see, until very re- 
cently, your proposals for bids to furnish materials for the building of the 
Smithsonian Institution, because he has not now time to ascertain whether 
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company will consent to reduce the .toll 
for transportation of marble on this canal. 

Assuming that the tolls will not be reduced, he offers to furnish 110,000 
feet of beautiful white marble, for rubble-facing, one foot thick, at 60 cents 
per foot; and 20,000 cubic feet dimension-stone, of white marble, for cut- 
ting, at 90 cents per foot. And will give as securities for the faithful ex- 
ecution of such a contract, Sebastian Ramsburg, John C. Osborn, John 
Hagan, and Joshua Dill, all of whom hold valuable real estate in, and are 
citizens and residents of, this county. 

The undersigned is not certain whether it is expected that those who 
propose to furnish the materials for building above mentioned must also 
submit proposals for the construction of the institution, and has therefore 
submitted proposals for materials only. If it is the intention of the com- 
mittee to have the materials furnished and this building constructed un- 
der one and the same contract, he will undertake, if time be afforded for 
this purpose, to form a company that will submit a proposition of that 
character, at an early day, and on terms that must be esteemed desirable. 
This is said confidently, from his knowledge of the superior quality of 
the marble he proposes to furnish, and from the facility with which it can 
be delivered at Washii^gton. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

PHILIP McGAUGHEN, 

Point of Rocks. 

Hon. R. D. Owen, 
W. J. Hough, 
W. W. Seaton, 

Committee^ Smithsonian Institution. 

All of which letters were laid on the table. 

The committee then, in the presence of the architect, James Renwick, 
jr., and of the superintendent, Robert Mills, proceeded to open the bids, 
and found them as by the following table : 



51 



[23] 



^ 








































s 































0^ 
0^ 




cq 






























(M 




S 




































<u 






























"Sa 


































234 








1 










1 












1 




nO 




U^ 































4>r 


































00 


3 



































y—l 














































'1 










.1 






0^ 




^ 


1 


in^ 


*N 






OD 


1 










1 












1 




<s 




3 


















10^ 




0" 




cS 


o 




3 


1—1 


















CO 




CO 




CO 


1 




§ 


CO 


















(>J 




(M 




(M 


^ 



































'^ 











i 









0. 


1 




C3 
«5„ 1 









1 









33 


0" 










- 


0" 






CO 










«5 
CM 




§ 


CO 










C« 






(>5 






Oi 




CQ 




•*S 






























to 



























s ^ 







w-< 




s 


1 


1 








1 


1 




1 


1 





^iO 


1 


»0 


<a 


























CO 


1— 1 




Ci" 


<i 




c 

























(>} 




v-^ 


*^ 




tg 
























CM 




CM 




1 


9 ^ 

































p 


£ ^ 





















'^ 










"« 




^ . 





1 








1 


1 




1 


1 "^ 


r — ■ 





1 


0^ 


<<> 




i:s 


00 jo" 


i 








1 


1 




1 


1 ^ ^ - 

000 


1 


^^^ 




• 


C 


fe^ 


















a> (M 








4> 

t/2 


CQ CO 


















T^ 


C>J CM 




CQ 


g" 


■;» 




„ 
































c- 


^» 


-r- 


1 1 


1 








1 


1 <^ 








1 


t 


1 









S 3 


1 1 


1 








1 


1 -^ 


/-w\^ 1 


1 


1 


1 - 1 


•H^J 


S ^ 














GO 















•-^ 


















m 















00 




































2; 




















#> (^ 


~'^~~ 








^-^ 




S-i 

















■^ Ci 















QJ 


000 











^ OJ 











8 






1 o„o„co_ 




05,1-^ 1 




1— 1 


^ 1 


1 


1 


==^^ 1 


1 






5^ 


ao^Go" 


^u 






icT'*" 




V^^/^ ' 


1 


1 


CO ' 


1 


s 




GO «5 






<x> t- 

























m 




























OQ 


































■va 




1 



















.-^> 

















-t-* 
^ 






























1 




1- 


1 1 


1 


1 




crT 
1—1 




1 


1 1 




t- 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 






OQ 








1—1 












1—1 










;^ 




I 1 


1 


, 


1 


x-v 1 


1 1 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 


1 


1 y~^ 


, 


< 




































■^ 














£10 




<A 











q:^ 




§ 






S [» 








s 











-^ 6 






•^ 











fl to 


( 


t 


d 





1 


1 1 


^ 


1 





j3 


1 


• 3 

83 


1 






• 

s 


0^ 


-a 


%. 

Q^ 


=8 




C3 










c 




r^ 


CO 

d 




OS 




^ 










15 



- S 



1- s 


<1 


1 


■0 g 

• ■—) 

Q 


5 
4^ 


> 




't5 


^ 






0^ 


'0 


Q 




^ 


CQi/2 










a 


P. 


CZ3 















'3 




cd 


cC 


3 

23 


>-i 


q4 





e^ 










































6 


tH 01 CO rd* ITS 




1> GO C5 







T— 1 


(M CO 


'^Jt 


^ 




^ 




















T-H 


I-H 


I— ( 


1—1 


j-H 



[23] ■ 52 

As each of the foregoing bids was opened, it was labelled " Opened 
March 16, 1847," each of the building committee adding his initials. 

As soon as all the bids v/ere opened and their amounts compared; 
a letter was prepared and addressed to six of the bidders, to wit: 

1. Messrs. James Dixon &- Co. 

2. Butler, Adams, and Cameron. 

3. T. M, Niven. 

4. Gilbert Cameron. 

5. F. Gerard. 

6. B. B. Curran. 
The letter is as follows : 

Office Smithsonian Institution, 

iliarc/i 16, 1847„ 

Sir : Please to inform the building committee whether your proposals 
include furniture, as per specifications, or not ; also, please state what are 
your separate estimates on mason work, carpenter's work, and stone- 
cutting. 

Your answer by this evening at six o'^clnck will oblige, sir, your obe- 
dient servant, 

ROBERT DALE OWEN, 

Chairman Building Committee. 

The letters v/ere placed in the hands of the messenger at \ past one 
o'clock. 
And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

NINTH MEETING— March 17, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 
- The chairman laid before the committee the following replies to the 
letter addressed yesterday to sundry bidders, 

Washington, March 17, 1847. 

Sir: In answer to your letter of this day, and in compliance therewith, 
1 have the honor to state that my bid for the carpentry work included the 
furniture, in accordance with specification, as also my general bid. 

My separate estmiatcs, constituting the bid for the whole building; 
were — 

Mason work .... $80,000 

Stone-cutting .... 94,800 

Carpentry work . . - - 65,200 

I would beg leave here to explain that my bid for the whole job did not 
contemplate the erection of the building of Seneca stone, but of white 
marble or granite ; I . should deduct $35,000 from the amount if the 
building committee decide upon using that kind of stone,* instead of the 
more beautiful, costly, and durable marble or granite. 

Respectfully, yours, &,c., 

B. B. CURRAN. 
Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 

Chairman of Building Committee. 

* This bid is for Seneca ruhble, — R. D. 0. 



53 



[23] 



Gentlemen : In reply to your letter of this morning, I beg leave to 
answer that I did not include the furniture in my estimate ; and the sep- 
arate estimates from which I made up my proposition were as follows : 



Rubble. 



SENECA. 



Cut. 



Cutting and stone 
Stone for face 
Mason 

Fire proofing 
Carpenters 


- $70,000 

5,000 

- 60,000 

- 12,000 

- 67,000 


Catting and stone 
Stone for face 
Mason - 
Fire-proofing 
Carpenters 

BLE. 

Cutting and stone 
Ashlar - 
Mason - 
Fire-proofing 
Carpenter 

F. 


GEI 


$70,000 
16,000 
58.500 
10,000 
65,000 


Catting and stone 
Stone for face work 
Mason 

Fire-proofing 
Carpenter 


214,000 

MAR 

- $75,000 

- 12,000 

- 61,000 

- 10,000 

- 67,000 

225,000 


219,500 

$75,000 
20,000 
58,500 
10,000 
67,000 




230,500 




lARD. 



Washington City, 31arch 16, 1847. 

In answering your letter that I received this morning, I beg leave to 
say, that in my estimate to build your job I did not make any offer for 
furniture, as I always thought it not included in the building proposal. 

Separate bills of Seneca stone. 
Mason work ... - $79,000, with rubble. 

Carpenter work ... - 60,ti00, do. 

Stone-cutting .... 61,000, do. 

If you put in ashlar, you would add to the above bill $3,000— making 
$203,000. 

I am, sir, very respectfully, fcc, 

GILBERT CAMERON. 

Hon. R. D. Ov/EN. 

Washington, Marcli 16, 1847. 

Sir: In answering yours of to-day, I have to inform you that my ma- 
son's bill is - $50,000 

Carpenters' bill .... - 66,000 
Cut stone 80,000 



196,000 (rubble.) 



If cut in range work, add 



6,750 



202,750 



[ 23 ] M 



If in marble (ashlar) from Symington's quarry, $'228,500'. 
If in marble from Symington's quarry, (rubble,) $224,000. 

JAMES DIXON & CO, 
Hon. Robert Dale Owen. 

N. B. — Furniture included in both instances, 

J. D. 

Washington, 3Iarch 16, 1847. 

Gentlemen: After examining Mr. Adams's papers, I have been able 
to discover the mistake in the bill that we hurriedly put in last night, and 
must express my thanks for your kindness in enabling me to correct it. 
The following I think is correct : 

East Chester marble — furnishing and cutting marble - - ^79,000 

Mason work with rubble . . . . . 82,000 

Carpenters, furnishnig all - - - - - 62,000 



223,000 
Add ashlar to this - 25,000 



248,000 



Reductions on account of ashlar _ > . - 17,000 



231,000 



Blount Pleasant marble, ashlar - - - -$101,725 

Mason's bill - - - - - - - 82,000 

Carpenter 62,000 



245,725 
Deduct ...... 12,000 



*213,725 



I hope you will excuse me for delaying you so long in waiting an an- 
swer. 

GILBERT CAMERON, for BUTLER & CO. 
To the Building Committee 

of the Smithsonian Institution. 

March 16, 1847. 

Gentlemen : In answer to your circular, I would state that my esti- 
mates did not include furniture. 

My estimates in detail were as follows : 

Seneca rubble estimates. 

For stone-cutting and dimension stone ... $71,000 

Stone for face work ...... 7,500 

Mason's bill - - . . ... . 61,000 



' Apparent error in addilion, inasmuch as §2455?25 — $12,000 = $233,725. 



R. D. O. 



55 [ 23 ] 

Fire-proofins: --..-.. |;l 3,000 
Carpenter's bill ...... 67,500 



220,000 



For marble rubble face. 



For stone-cutting and dimension-stone ... $75,000 

Marble rubble - 14,000 

Mason ---.--.- 61,000 

Fire-proof ....... 12,000 

Carpenter - - - - - . . - 65,000 



227,000 



For marble with ashlar face. 



Stone-cutting and dimension .... - $75,000 

Ashlar for face 20,500 

Mason 57,500 

Fire-proof 12,000 

Carpenter ..,---- 65,500 

230,500 



Yours, with esteem, 

T. M. NIVEN. 

To the Building Committee 

of the Smithsonian Instiintion. 

After carefully examining the bids in detail, the messenger was request- 
ed to ask Mr. Niven into the committee room; and on being asked 
whether he was willins: to make a contract at his estimate for stone-cut- 
ting alone, he (Mr. Niven) replied in the affirmative. The messenger 
was then requested to call Mr. Dixon ; and on being asked whether he 
was willing to make a contract for the work exclusive of stone-cutting, he 
(Mr. Dixon) asked until to-morrow morning to give an answer. 

He was requested to see Mr. Ni^en on the subject, so as to ascertain 
whether a contract could be made with them jointly,based on Mr. Niven's 
bid ior stone-cutting, and James Dixon & Co.'s bid for mason and car- 
penter's work. 

After conference in regard to the special provisions of the contract, the 
architect was requested to draw up a blank contract, and submit the same 
to the committee at their meeting to-morrow. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TENTH MEETING— March 18, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

On motion of the chairman, it was 
Resolved, That the specifications be altered so as to require that both 
the principal stairways, as high as the museum floor^ be of stone, with 



[ 23 ] 56 

iron balusters, bronzed ; and that a floor above the ceiling of the second 
story, tire-proofed, according to the plan proposed in the report made on 
the 15th instant by Mr. Hough, be added; and that the tesselated floor of 
the museum be dispensed with; and that Mr. Hough be a sub-committee 
to consult with the architect as to what minor alterations in the specifi- 
cations can be made, so as, with the reduction efiected by dispensing with 
the said tesselated floor of the museum, to meet the additional cost of said 
stairways and said fire-proof floor, \vithout increasing the aggregate ex- 
pense of the entire building. 

Mr, Dixon, of the firm of James Dixon & Co., appeared, and informed 
the committee that lie was not willing to take the mason's and carpen- 
ter's work separate from the stone-cutter's, as yesterday proposed to him. 
He also informed the committee that he had made an error in the addition 
of his bid for Seneca ashlar of $2,500, so that the committee must con- 
sider that bid as amounting in the total to $205,250, at which amount he 
stood ready to contract. 

It appearing that the bids of James Dixon & Co. for the building were 
the lowest, to wit: 

In Seneca ashlar $205,250 

And in marble ashlar ------ 228,500 

And it further appearing to the committee that the ashlar finish of 
Seneca stone is more durable than the rubble finish : 

The committee informed Mr. Dixon that his bid to complete the build- 
ing in the Seneca freestone, ashlar finish, for the sum of two hundred 
and five thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, was accepted. 
On motion of the chairman, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Hough and the architect be a sub-committee to 
prepare a blank contract, submit the same to James Dixon & Co., and 
after obtaining their assent to the same, present it to this committee for 
approval. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

ELEVENTH MEETING— March IS, 1S47, (5 o'clock, p. m.) 

Present, Messrs. Owen and Hough, 
On motion of Mr. Hough, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Owen address a letter to Mr. John P. C. Peter, ac- 
cepting the off"er of quarry-right made to the committee, in letter of Mr. 
Peter to Mr. Seaton dated 9th December last, and place the said letter in 
the hands of Mr. Dixon, to be forwarded to Mr. Peter. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

• 

TWELFH MEETING— March 19, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

The chairman submitted to the committee a copy of the letter which, 
in accordance with a resolution passed yesterday, he addressed to Mr. John 
P. C. Peter, owner of the Bull run quarry, in Montgomery county, Mary- 
land, and which he had last evening caused to be delivered to Mr. Dixon, 
as follows : 



I 



57 [ 23 ] 

Washington, March IS, 1847. 
Sir : I am requested by the building committee of the Smithsonian 
Institution to inform you, that they have to day decided upon the mate- 
rial for their building; that their choice is Seneca freestone from someone 
of your quarries, if sufficient suitable stone can be found in them— proba- 
bly from that of Bull run ; and that they accept your offer made to them 
in your letter of the 9th December last, addressed to Mr. Seaton, namely, 
to pay you twenty-five cents per perch for all stone intended for cut work, 
and twelve and a half cents for all calculated for hammered work, 
I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

ROBERT DALE OWEN, 
Chairman Building Commitiee. 
John P. C. Peter, Esq. 



'to 



I 



On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That the resolution heretofore adopted, instructing Mr. Peter 
Gorman to obtain four perches of freestone from Seneca creek, be and the 
same is hereby rescinded. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That the resolution heretofore adopted, instructing Dr. Owen 
to make chemical analyses of the Maryland marbles, and particularly of 
those from Mr. Worthington's and Mr. Symington's quarries, be and the 
same is hereby rescinded. 

On motion of Mr. Hough, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Owen be requested to write to Mr. McLane, presi- 
dent of the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, and to Mr. Howard, president of 
the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad, and to inform them that although, 
for the sake of economy, the freestone of the upper Potomac has been se- 
lected as a building-material, the committee desire to express their 
sense of the prompt liberality with which the boards of these railroad com- 
panies had adopted the suggestion of the building committee in regard to 
reduction of the rates of transportation in favor of the institution, in case 
marble was selected. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned to meet at eight o'clock this 
evening. 

THIRTEENTH MEETING— March 19, 1847, (8 o'clock, p. m.) 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

The contractors. Messrs. Dixon and Cameron, appeared; and the con- 
tract for the buildings of the institution, which had been prepared by the 
architect and revised by the committee, having been read to them, they 
expressed their assent to all its provisions, and declared themselves ready 
to execute the same. 

Thereupon the Secretary of the institution, being present, represented 
to the committee that one of the Regents, now in the city, to wit : Professor 
A. D. Bache, requested to be allowed to examine the provisions of the^ 
contract before it was finally executed ; but that Mr. Bache was at pres- 
ent too ill to read or examine it. 

Upon this suggestion, the committee asked the contractors whether they 
were willing now to sign, leaving the signatures of the committee to be 



[23] 



53 



added to-morrow, after Professor Bache should have had an opportunity to 
examine the contract. 

And the contractors, assenting, signed the contract. 
On motion of the chairman, it was 

Resolved^ That flic architect and Dr. Owen proceed to-morrow to 
Seneca creek, for the purpose of examining the quarries in its vicinity, 
with the view of selecting the one from which it is expedient to derive 
the material with which to face the building; and that they present to 
this connnittec specimens of the exact tint and quality of freestone they 
may concur in recommending. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

FOURTEENTH MEETING— March 20, 1S47. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

The chairman stated to the committee that he had a conversation with 
Professor Hache and the Secretary of the institution, and, availing him- 
self of suggestions made by them, had prepared an addendum to the con- 
tract; which he submitted, as follows : 

"It is further understood and agreed by and between the parties to 
the above agreement, that if the Board of Regents should determine to 
make important alterations in the plan of building, or in the time of its 
execution, then, and in that case, the said party of the first part shall re- 
ceive yjro ?•«;«, accordinof to the prices agreed in the foregoing contract, 
for work executed, and reasonable damages, if the nature of the case justly 
demands it. And in case of dispute or controversy in regard to the 
amount, then the party of the second part may select either the architect 
of the institution, or any other architect or architects, to arbitrate in the 
case, and his or their decision shall be final and conclusive in the 
premises." 

. And, on motion, it was adopted and signed by the committee, with the 
understanding that it be submitted to tlie contractors for their signature, 
'^^riiereupon tlie commiftoc proceeded to the site belonging to the institu- 
tion, and carefully examined the same, with reference to the exact posi- 
tion in which to place the building ; but came to no final decision thereon. 

And; on motion, the committee adjourned. 

FIFTEENTH MEETING— JMarch 20, 1S47, (5 o'clock.) 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen. 

Mr. Dixon appeared and signed the "addendum." And the committee 
appended their signatures to the contract, thus completing the same, as 
follows : 

Contract. 

This agreement, made and concluded this nineteenth day of March, in 
^the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, be- 
tween James Dixon and (lilhcrt Cameron, party of the first part, and the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, by Robert Dale Owen, 
AVilliam VV. Seaton, and William J. Hough, a committee of three of their 
number duly appointed for the purpose, and for and in behalf of the 



59 [ 23 ] 

said institution, and in accordance with the provision of tlie fifth section 
of the act of Congress estabHshuig said institution, of the second part, 
Avitnesseth : That the said parly of the first part, for their heirs, executors, 
administrators, and assigns, hereby covenant and agree to and with 
the said party of the second part, that for and in consideration of the sum 
of two hundred and five thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, to be 
paid to them by the said party of the second part, in the manner and at 
the times hereinafter specified, they will furnish till the materials of every 
description and perform all the work necessary to construct and com- 
pletely finish, in the most full, substantial^ and workmanlike manner, the 
whole of the carpenter work, stone-cutting-, and mason work, and work 
connected therewith, for the building of the Smithsonian Institution, in 
each and all of its parts, including all of its appurtenances, said build- 
ing being situated on the site for the building of said institution, in 
the city of Washington, and in a position designated by the said parties 
of the second part. And the said party of the first part hereby further 
covenant and agree, that the construction of the said building and its ap- 
purtenances shall be in every respect in accordance with the plans, speci- 
fications, and directions of James Renwick, junior, the architect of the 
said institution, all of which shall be considered as part of this contract; 
which said specifications are hereunto annexed. And the said parties of 
the first part hereby further covenant and agree that they will furnish ma- 
terials of the best description, and that the work shall be performed in the 
most workmanlike and substantial manner. 

And it is hereby agreed by the parties to this contract, that the work, 
during its progress, shall be subject to the inspection and decision of the 
said architect, who shall have, and is hereby granted, power to condemn 
and reject all materials and work which shall not, in his opinion, be in ac- 
cordance with this contract ; and the said parties of the first part hereby 
agree that they will take down all work and remove from the ground ail 
materials which may be condemned by the said architect, at their own 
cost and expense, on pain of forfeiture of this contract, as hereinafter 
specified. 

And it is hereby agreed by the parties to this contract, that the execu- 
tion and completion of the building herein contracted for shall occupy a 
period of five years from the nineteenth day of March, in the year of our 
Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, and in such propor- 
tions thereof, in and during each year thereof, as the said party of the sec- 
ond part shall direct ; and such work to be done at such times and sea- 
sons, and in such order, as the said architect shall direct ; it being ex- 
pressly understood that an amount of not more than forty-one thousand 
dollars shall be expended annually during the first four years of this 
agreement. 

And it is hereby mutually agreed by the parties to this contract, that 
the parts composing the said building shall be erected in the following 
times and order, viz : the wings and connecting ranges within two 
years, and the remainder of the building within five years, from the first 
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven. 

And it is hereby further agreed by the said party of the first part, that 
they will perform all- work embraced in this contract as above specified, 
agreed, and understood. 

And it is hereby mutually agreed, covenanted, and understood by the 
parties to this contract, that, in order to prevent all disputes, the said above- 



[23] 



60 



mentioned architect shall decide every question, controversy, or claim, 
which may or can arise during the execution of this contract from altera- 
tions in plan or in any other manner, and that his estimate and decision 
thereon shall be final and conclusive between the parties, who hereby 
mutually bind themselves each to the other, to submit to the said esti- 
mate and decision of said architect, in the sum of forty thousand dollars, 
which is to be forfeited and paid by the party who shall neglect or refuse 
to abide by and perform said estimate and decision to the other party to 
this contract. 

And the said party of the second part hereby agree that they will pay 
the above-mentioned sum of two hundred and five thousand two hun- 
dred and fifty dollars ($205,250) in gold and silver, or in treasury notes 
bearing six per cent, interest, at their par value, for the whole work, to the 
said party of the first part, in the manner and times following, to wit : 
every two months for all materials delivered and work executed according 
lo the estimate and certificate of the aforesaid architect, reserving fifteen 
per cent, therefrom until the completion of the work ; and that when the 
whole building and work shall be completed, and upon certificate of the 
aforesaid architect that it has been finished in every respect to his satis- 
faction, according to the terms of this contract, they will pay the balance 
which may then be due, including said fifteen per cent., and the interest 
that may have accrued on said fifteen per cent., at the rate of six per cent, 
per annum from the times of the several estimates. 

And it IS hereby agreed and covenanted, that if at any time the said 
parties of the first part shall, in the opinion of the aforesaid architect, 
have performed any of the work embraced in the contract in an unfailhful 
or improper manner, or shall have violated any of the provisions of this 
contract, or shall refuse to prosecute the work herein contracted for, that 
then, and in that case, the said architect shall give notice of the same in 
writing to the said parties of the second part, any two of whom may there- 
upon terminate this said contract by giving notice thereof in writing to the 
said party of the first part; and that thereupon this contract shall be deem- 
ed terminated, abandoned, and lawfully forfeited by the said party of the 
first part, and the said party of the second part may proceed to contract for 
the remainder of the work with any other party or parties, holding all the 
work done and materials delivered by the said party of the first part, and all 
the moneys due them therefor, as security for the remainder of the work; 
and also holding and binding the said party of the first part, their heirs, 
executors, administrators, assigns, and bondsmen, to make good any further 
loss or damage which may accrue to the said party of the second part from 
such defalcation, forfeiture, and abandonment of the work by the said 
party of the first part. 

And it is hereby further agreed and understood by the parties to this 
contract that the following alterations in the plans and specifications shall 
be made, and that the same shall be considered as part of this contract: 

First. The building shall be faced, and all the cut-stone work dressed 
from the best Seneca freestone from the upper Potomac, to be taken from 
the Bull run quarry, or some other quarry in the neighborhood of Seneca 
creek, to be designated by the said parties of the second part, and free 
from all imperfections. 

jSecon.d. That the building shall be faced with coursed ashlar of the 
above-mentioned freestone, in courses varying from ten to fifteen inches 
in height, and no two adjacent courses in the building to vary more than 



61 [ 23 ] 

one inch in height, brought to a joint not exceeding tbree-eightlis (i) of 
an inch in the widest place when'laid, taken out of wind; dressed lull to 
the square on the beds,- builds, and joints, with a narrow arris drawn 
around the face of each stone, and the face between the arres pointed off 
horizontally in a regular manner and at regular distances — say not more 
than two inches apart — averagnig nine inches in thickness, with a proper 
proportion of bond stone to bind the face to the backing — say one in every 
3^ feet square; the clause in the mason's specification, commencing 
with " the face of the walls shall be strongly tied to the backing," being 
continued in full force and effect. The whole of the above ashlar to be 
set in the best manner, and pointed in the manner described in the ma- 
son's specification, 

TIdrd. That in place of the principal flights of the front and rear stair- 
ways, as specified in the carpenter's specification, cut-stone steps and 
platforms of such freestone as shall be selected by the architect, which 
shall be fine cut and rubbed, with handsome cast-iron newels and balus- 
ters, similar to the wooden ones described in the carpenter's specification, 
and well bronzed in the best manner, with a heavy moulded hand-rail of 
the best well-seasoned black walnut, shall be substituted. On the heads 
of each of the above cui-stone steps and platforms, Norman pateras, or 
flower ornamenfS; shall be cut by the contractor. The above stone steps 
shall be carried up as higli as the level of the museum floor. 

Fourth. That a floor of one and a quarter inch white pine plank, resting 
on beams of white pine 2x12 inches, set twenty inches from centres, 
shall be carried under the roofs of the v/hole building and towers ; and 
that the floor be-Tins shall be supported by 8 x 12 inch girders where 
necessary, and plastering of cement mortar two inches in thickness shall 
be laid over the top of all of the said above-mentioned floors. 

Fifih. That in place of the iron timbers having brick arches and 
concrete between them, which are specified to be placed in the chemical 
lecture room, the students' working laboratory, and the rooms over it, 
wooden beams 3 X 12 inches, set 16 inches from centres, with a deaf- 
ening of cement concrete four inches in thickness between them, resting 
on one and a quarter inch plank, firmly secured to the beams by 3 x I5 
inch strips, shall be substituted. The above beams shall be furred on 
the under side, with 2 x H hich strips, set one foot from centres, and 
plastered three coats ; the last coat shall be hard-finished. 

/Sixth. That in place of the iron columns in the larger lecture-room, 
wooden columns, nine inches square, which shall be furred, lathed, and 
stuccoed in the best manner, with reeds forming clustered columns with 
foliage caps, bases and plinths, shall be substituted. 

Seventh. That in the place of the tesselated wooden floor of the mu- 
seum, a floor of narrow clear Georgia yellow pine plank, not more than 
five inches wide, planed, tongued and grooved, laid in courses and blind- 
nailed in the best manner, shall be laid. The heads and sides of all the 
plank shall be planed after they are laid, so as to be perfectly true and 
even when finished. 

Eighth. That on the eight corners of the fourth story of the higher 
central front tower, eight columns, one foot in diameter and of the height 
of the story, with foliage caps, bases, and plinths, shall be well and truly 
cut. , 

And it is hereby further covenanted «nd agreed by the said parties ol 



[23] 



62 



the first part, that they will not employ any sub-contractor who shall be 
objected to by the architect ; and further, that the said architect shall 
have power to discharge any laborer, foreman, and sub-contractor, who 
may, in his opinion, be incompetent or unfaithful ; and the said parties of 
the first part shall not further or again employ, directly or indirectly, any 
of the above-mentioned persons, o» pain of forfeiture of this contract, as 
herein before specified. And the said parties to this contract hereby 
nmtually agree, that in case of the absence of the said architect, or of his 
inability to act, that then, and in that case, his assistant or successor, to 
be appointed by the said party of the second part, shall be, and is hereby, 
invested with all the powers granted to the aforesaid architect, in this 
contract. 

In witness whereof, the said party of the first part have hereunto set 
their hands and seals, and the said party of the second part hereunto 
subscribed their names, and affixed the seal of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, the day and year first above written. 

Signed, sealed, and delivered, in presence of 

JAMES DIXON, [l. s.] 

GILBERT CAMERON, [l. s.] 

ROBt:RT DALE OWEN, 7 
WILLIAM J. HOUGH. y Co>?wiit(ee. 
W. W. SEATON, ' 3 

Addendum to the above contract. 

It is further understood and agreed by and between the parties to the 
above agreement, that if the Board of Regents should determine to make 
important alterations in the plan of building, or in the time of its execu- 
tion, then, and in that case, the said party of the first part shall receive 
pro rata, according to the prices agreed in the foregoing contract, for work 
executed, and reasonable damages, if the nature of the case justly demands 
it; and in case of dispute or controversy in regard to the amount, then the 
party of the second part may select either the architect of the institu- 
tion, or any other architect or architects, to arbitrate in the case, and his 
or their decision shall be final and conclusive in the premises. 

JAMES DIXON. 

GILBERT CAMERON. 



I 



ROBERT DALE OWEN, 
WILLIAM J. HOUGH, V Committee. 

W. W. SEATON, 3' 

Washington City, D. C, March 19, 1S17. 



Specification of the masonry and materials for the SmitJisoman Institution. 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF BUILDING. 

The building will consist of a centre, which will be 50 by 200 feet m 
the rlear, inside. Two connecting ranges, GO feet in length in the clear, 
inside, and averaging 47 feet broad In the clear, inside. An east wing. 



63 [ 23 ] 

45 by 75 feet in the clear, inside, with a vestibule and porch attached to 
it; and a west wing, 34 by 65 feet in the clear, inside, exclusive of the 
apsis or semicircular projection. 

Toivers. — There will be two central front towers, one central rear tower, 
a campanile or bell tower, a large octagonal and two smaller towers, with 
porches, vestibules, stair halls, &.C., attached to the centre. 

The east wing, or chemical lecture-room, will have a bell tower, six 
chimneys, a vestibule and porch, attached to it; and the west wing will 
have a campanile tower, and apsis or semicircular end connected with it. 

The central building will contain, in the first story, the principal cen- 
tral hall, and the library, with groined ceilings, and the principal lecture- 
room, with a panelled ceiling. The second story will contain the mu- 
seum, also finished with a groined ceiling. 

The larger central front tower will contain a furnace cellar in the base- 
ment. In the first story a librarian's room, and a room over it in a mez- 
zanine story, all with groined ceilings. In the second story, a room con- 
nected with the museum, with a groined ceiling, and over it a room eight 
feet in height. Above the line of the roof of the main building it will con- 
tain four stories, completely finished. 

The lower central front tower will be divided in the same manner below 
the line of the roof; and, above this line, will contain three completely 
finished stories. The spaces between the front towers, and between the 
central building and the front towers, will contain in the basement a cel- 
lar, connecting the coal cellars in the towers. It the first story the front 
vestibule, with a groined ceiling, and the front stairwells; and in the 
second story, a continuation of the mnseum, with groined ceilings, and 
the second flight of front stairs, with groined ceilings. Between the two 
towers the carriage porch will project, and shall have a groined ceiling. 

The central rear tower will contain, in the basement, a furnace cellar; 
in the first story, the rear vestibule, and part of the rear stair hall; in the 
second story the Regents' room, and a room over the rear staircase hall, 
which will be connected with the museum, all having groined ceilings; 
and, in the third story, wdiich will be divided internally into two stories, 
the lower one the Secretary's and the upper one a muniment room. 
- In the small octagonal tower connected with^the central rear tower, will 
be a circular staircase and a fire-proof safe. 

In the space between the central rear tower and the main building will 
be the remainder of the central rear stair hrfll ; and over it a room con- 
nected with the gallery of the museum, all having groined ceilings. 

The campanile tower will have a furnace cellar in the basement, and 
will be divided above the basement and below the roof of the main cen- 
tral building, into three stories, with groined ceilings communicating with 
the principal lecture-room and the museum. Above the line of the roof it 
will be divided into four stories, completely finished. 

The larger octagonal tower will contain, in the basement, a furnace 
cellar; in the first story a circular stair, with a groined ceiling, connect- 
ing the gallery of the hbrary with its ground floor ; in the second story a 
similar circular stairway; and above the line of the roof of the central 
building two stories, completely finished. 

The two smaller towers will contain elevators and ventilating flues. 

The west connecting range will be finished in the basement eight feet 
high in the clear ; above the basement it will be occupied with a cloister 



[23] 



64 



and gallery of art ; which latter will be divided by stone pillars, support- 
ing a clerestory, into three aisles, with groined ceilings. 

The west wnig will be finished in the basement eight feet six inches 
high in the clear; the upper story will contain a gallery of art, with a 
groined ceiling. The tower attached to the west wing will be occupied 
by a staircase well, and other apartments, with groined ceilings where 
directed. 

The east connecting range will be finished in the basement eight feet 
six inches high in the clear, and behind the cloister and above the base- 
ment it will be divided into two stories, each twelve feet high in the clear. 
The upper story will be lighted by openings in the parapet, which is not 
shown in the plans, but which will be three feet six inches high ; both 
stories will be completely finished. The cloister will extend along the 
front of the wing, and will have a groined ceiling. 

The basement of the west wing, and its vestibule, will be finished 
nine to ten feet high in the clear. 

Above the basement it will contain the chemical lecture-room and its 
gallery, and the laboratory connected with it ; which latter will be divi- 
ded into two finished stories. 

The vestibule will contain the stair hall, and all the above rooms will 
be finished with groined ceilings. 

Excavation^ levelling, and rejilling. — The trench for the foundation walls 
of the central building shall be excavated to a depth of four feet six inches, 
and for the connecting ranges and wings to a depth of five feet six inches 
below the present surface of the ground, at the centre of the north side of 
the building. 

The trench for the foundation walls of the principal central front towers 
and the central rear tower shall be excavated to a depth of eight feet (8 feet) 
below the above line; and for the campanile, octagonal, and all the lesser 
towers, to a depth of six feet (6 feet) below the above line. 

The trenches for all the partition and interior walls, and for all the foun- 
dations under pillars, &c., shall be excavated to the same depth as those 
for the outside walls Avith which they are connected. 

The earth between the wall trenches, in both wings, both connecting 
ranges, and the great lecture-room, shall be excavated to a depth of 5 feet 
below the same line under the whole building. 

The earth between the foundation trenches of all the towers and the 
space on the north front between the central towers will be excavated to a 
depth of G inches less than the trenches of the walls. 

All remaining excavation for areas, coal slides, sess-pools, sinks, <fcc., 
necessary to complete the building, to be performed by the contractor, and 
according to the direction of the architect. 

Refilling. — K part of the earth thus excavated shall be thrown back into 
the trenches, (on the outside of the walls and inside, so far as may be di- 
rected,) after the walls are built. It shall be thrown in in layers, and well 
rammed, so as to prevent all settlement. The remainder of the earth shall 
be removed and levelled off in such places and in such manner as may 
be directed by architect. 

Outside excavation. — All the excavation necessary to bring the present 
surface of the ground to a level with the top of the foundation wall at the 
building, and to slope it in every direction for drainage, for a width of 60 
feet (sixty feet) from the building, in every direction, will be performed by 
the contractor. 



65 [ 23 ] 

Grubbing and clearing . — All the sod, roots, and in general all vegetable 
mould and perishable matter; shall be removed from the whole area cover- 
ed by the building. 

And, in general, all excavation, refilling, grubbing, and clearing, neces- 
sary to complete the building in every respect, will be performed by the 
contractor, in accordance with the directions of the architect. 

Masonry in foundation — concrote. — Under all l^e walls of the building 
a foundation course of concrete masonry, which shall be made by mixing 
two parts of best hydraulic cement wilh one part of lime in paste, with 
eight parts of clean sharp sand, which shall be thoroughly mixed and 
well tempered, and nine parts of broken stone, not exceeding two and 
a half inches in diameter. The whole shall then be thoroughly mixed, 
and well tempered, and laid in courses of six inches, and shall be well 
rammed, when laid, with a heavy maul, so as to insure the perfect solidi- 
ty of the whole mass. 

The concrete shall belaid to the following dimensions, under the dif- 
ferent parts of the building: 

A. — Under the two central front towers twelve (12) feet wide on bottom, 
ten (10) feet wide on the top, and two (2) feet in thickness, under all the 
walls and buttresses. 

B. — Under the central rear tower, and the campanile and octagonal 
towers, ten feet wide on the bottom, eight feet wide on top, and two feet 
in thickness, under all the walls and buttresses. 

U. — Under all the remaining towers, eight feet wide on the bottom, six 
feet wide on the top, and one foot six inches in thickness. 

D. — Under the walls and buttresses of the central building, six feet 
wide on the bottom, five feet wide on the top, and one foot in thickness. 

E. — Under the conneciing ranges and principal partition walls, four feet 
six inches wide on the bottom, three feet six inches wide on the top, and 
one foot in thickness. 

F. — Under the wings, five feet wide on the bottom, four feet wide on 
top, and one foot in thickness. 

G. — Under the piers suppor;ing the clerestory columns of the gallery 
of art, six feet six inches square on the bottom, five feet square on the 
top, and two feet in thickness. 

H. — Under all the remaining piers, for the columns of the library and 
the lecture-room, five feet square on the bottom, four feet square on the 
top, and one foot six inches in thickness. 

iStone masonry in foundation. — The masonry of the foundation shall 
be laid of large, well shaped, gneiss building-stone, of the best quahty. 
with level beds and builds, laid'in courses, with strong bond. The stones 
shall be of large size, not less than three feet in length ; the beds shall be 
hammered true and even, and the joints brought close together. All the 
joints shall be filled com{)letely with mortar and spaulls, so as to leave no 
cavities which might endanger the stability of the walls, and the outside 
joints shall be well pointed. 

The foundation shall be laid of the fohowing dimensions of cross sec- 
tioii, under the different portions of the building : ■ \ a 

A. — Under the central front towers, 1st, a course nine feet wide and 
two feet thick ; 2d, a course seven feet wide and two feet thick ; 3d, a 
course five and a half feet wide and two feet thick. 

B.— Under the central rear tower, and the campanile and octagonal 
5 



[ 23 ] 66 

towers, 1st, a course of stone seven feet wide and two feet thick ; 2d5 a 
course of stone five feet wide and two feet thick. 

C. — Under all the remaining towers, 1st, a course of stone five feet 
wide and two feet thick ; 2d, a course of stone four feet wide and two feet 

thick. 

D. Under all the walls of central building, 1st, a course of stone four 

feet and a half wide and two feet thick ; 2d, a course of stone three feet 
eight inches wide and one and a half foot thick. 

E. — Under the connecting ranges and principal partition walls, the 
foundation will be three feet six inches wade, and four feet six inches in 
height. 

F. — Under the wings, 1st, a course four feet wide and two feet thick ; 
2d, a course three feet six inches wide and two feet six inches thick. 

G. — Under the piers supporting the clerestory of the gallery of art, a 
foundation of stone four feet square on the bottom, two feet six inches 
square on the top, and three feet in height. 

H. — Under all the remaining piers, for the columns of library, lecture- 
room, &c., a foundation two feet square, and three feet six inches in thick- 
ness. 

I. — Under all the remaining partition walls a course of long stone, 
three feet six inches in length, and not less than eight inches in thicknesSj 
will be laid. 

Under all the porches and buttresses, the foundation will be of the same 
section and materials as the walls they are connected with, and they will 
be well bonded to them. Ail the remaining stone work necessary to com- 
plete the foundation, will be performed; areas and coal slides will be built 
to all the openings to the furnace cellars, in tlie towers, and to the base- 
ment windows, of such dimensions as may be directed by the architect. 
Tlie faces of the w^alls will be well hanmier-dressed, and neatly pointed. 

The mortar for all the above stone foundation walls shall consist of the 
best hydraulic lime and clean sharp sand, mixed in the best proportions, 
and thoroughly tempered. 

Brick masonry in foundation. — Inverted arches, of the best hard brick, 
will be turned under all the openings of the foundation, of the thickness 
of the walls in which they are placed, atid of such otlier dimensions as 
the architect shall direct. The arches will be laid in the most true and 
even manner, with very close joints, which will be well slated up, to pre- 
vent all settlement in the mortar. 

Groined arches of the best hard brick, laid in the best manner, with 
close joints, the T-key courses being grouted up and slated, will be turned 
under the two central front towers, and space between them, the central 
rear tower, the campanile and octagonal towers of the main building, and 
the tower of the west wing. The arches will be nine inches, or one brick 
thick, and will be backed over with spandrils and haunch walls, aiid the 
floors above them will be of best North river flag, axed smooth on the up- 
per surface, and cut true and even in the joints. 

Partition walls. — Tlie main partition walls of the central building will 
be of stone, in the foundation as above described. The lesser partition 
walls, for the rooms in the connecting ranges and wings, will be laid up 
of the best hard brick, and of the following section: 1st, a course of bricks 
IS.inches wide, 5 inches high; 2d, a course of bricks 14 inches wide, 5 



67 [ 23 ] 

inches high; and for the reaiaiuder of the height, or nine feet, they will 
be nine inches in thickness, and of tfie lengths shown on plans.' 

All the above brick masonry shall be laid with the closest possible joints, 
especially in the arches, which shall be slated in the joints, and all the 
fcricks shall be well wet before they are laid. Proper openings for doors 
with semicircular arched heads turned over them, shall be built in the 
walls, in the places shown on the plans, and where the architect shall direct. 

Arches of brick, of such dimensions as the architect shall direct, will 
be turned behind all the stone arches of the windows and doors. 

The mortar for all the above brick masonry shall be composed of best 
hydraulic or ground lime, 6r a mixture of hydraulic cement and lime in 
paste, mixed with the best clean sharp sand, and throughly tempered. 

All the remaining stone and brick masonry necessary to complete the 
foundation to be performed by builder, whether specified or not. 

WALLS OF BUILDING ABOVE FOUNDATION. 

Stone masonry. — The walls shall be faced with the best broken rub- 
ble masonry, of white marble, or buff-colored Seneca stone of even color 
and best description, or of granite similar to that in the rear of the Gen- 
eral Post Ufiico; and the contractor will state in his estimate the ex- 
pense of constructing the building with each of the three above described 
materials. The face of the stone shall be brought to the square by the 
mason's hammer, care being talcen to pick, as far as possible, such stones 
for the face as will require little dressing ; the object being to preserve, as 
far as practicable, the natural face of the stone, v/ith the crystals un- 
broken. The beds, joints, and builds of the stone shall be dressed true 
and even, so that the joints shall not exceed one half of an inch in the 
widest place. The style of the front shall be either broken or angular 
rubble, and the face shall be laid in the manner directed by the archi- 
tect. The facing shall average ten inches in thickness, and no stone 
will be allowed in the work whose breadth of bed is less than two-thirds 
its height. The stone shall be of nearly uniform color, free from all 
sap, iron pyrites, and all other discoloring or deteriorating material, and 
especially in the white marble, from the decomposing carbonate of mag- 
nesia. 

The face of the wall shall be strongly tied to the backing by head- 
ers of the same material as the face, running in places through the 
wall, and in no case less than twenty inclies in depth, and fur- 
nished in such numbers as the architect shall direct— say one in every 
three feet six inches square. All the arres of the buttresses, towers, 
•&C., and all the corners, splays, and angles, throughout the whole build- 
ing, shall be dressed with the chisel so as to be perfectly plumb, true, 
and even, when laid. No quakers will be allowed in any part of the 
work. All the stones shall be laid on their natural beds. The head- 
ing stones on the comers of all the towers, buttresses, and of the 
whole building, shall have beds at least equal to their heights on face. 
The joints shall be pointed with a mixture of the best quicklime and 
blacksmith's scales and sand, and shall be smooth struck on the face ; 
and, after it has set throughout, the joints shall be painted to the color 
of the face with the best Dure white lead and boiled linseed oil, colored 
to the color of the stone. All the wails will be backed in with best 



[ 23 J 68 

blue gneiss, of good shape and size, laid on the natural bed, and \re{! 
bonded to the face work. Behind the outside walls, and at a distance of 
four inches from them, a five-inch bricli wall, tied to the outer wall by 
at least one bond stone in every three feet square, will be laid. This 
backing will be returned, to meet the front wall at all the jambs and 
arches of all the windows and doors. It will also be tied to the front 
walls, in the piers between the windows, by brick cross walls nine inches 
thick, to form the flues ; which flues will be constructed as follows : 
In each of the piers between the windows there will be three flues 8 
by 16 inches in the clear inside, which will be carried from a point three 
feet below the underside of the beams of the first story to the top of the 
building. One of these flues will be connected with the furnaces by a 
horizontal flue of galvanized iron^ or double-cross tin, two feet square, 
which will be furnished by the contractor, for the purpose of diflnsing 
the hot air throughout the building. All these flues v/ill have neat regis- 
ters in the rooms, for the proper regulation of the heat. The second 
flue will have an opening in each story, on the line of the ceiling, on 
the outside of the wall, and another opening into the bases of the rooms 
inside: these will admit the cold air from the outside of the buildina- 
into the respective rooms for the purpose of proper ventilation, and will 
be closed up on the level of the floor of each story, by a cross wall 
over the outside opening; and each of the above flues will be fur- 
nished with a heavy sheet-tin slide valve, with proper fixtures for open- 
ing and shutting, placed in such part of the flue, and made in such 
manner, as may be directed by the architect. 

The third flues will have openings on the inside on a line with the ceil- 
ings of all the rooms; through tliese the foul and heated air will be car- 
ried off and discharged by an opening under the coping of the building. 
All these flues will be furnished with two sheet-tin valves each, made 
and placed in the manner directed by the architect. Proper flues^ welt 
parged, will be carried up for the furnaces, fireplaces, engine; laboratory^ 
&c., in such places as may be directed bj' the architect. 

In addition to the above ventilating flues, openings with valves will 
be foymed in all the groined ceilings^ which will be connected with the 
corner towers and flues in the larger towers. 

Thickness of tvalls. — The thickness of the walls of the main building 
above the water tables will be two feet six inches in the first story, and two 
feet in the second story, exclusive of all projections of the buttresses, cor- 
bel courses, battlements^, bands, (kc. 

The thickness of the end walls of the main building will be two feet 
six inches for a height of fifteen feet above the line of the water table^ 
and for the remaining portion two feet, exclusive of all projections. 

The thickness of the walls of the connecting ranges above water table 
will be twenty-two inches, exclusive of all projections. 

Th© thickness of the clerestory wall of the west range will be sixteen 
inches, and it will be backed in with good hard brick. 

The thickness of the walls of both" wings will, above the water table, 
be two feet, exclusive of all projections and the batter at the base of the 
east wing. 

The thickness of the walls of central front towers will be three feet 
six inches in the first stories, three feet in the second story, two feet six 
inches in the third story, with the corners filled in to aid in'supporting the 



69 ^ [23] 

octagon, and two feet in the fourth story, which will be backed in with 
good hard brick, exclusive of all projections. 

The thickness of the walls of the" central rear tower will be three feet in 
the first story, two feet six inches in the second story, and two feet in the 
third story, exclusive of all projections. 

The thickness of the walls of the campanile, exclusive of all projec- 
tions, will be two feet to the line of the roof of the main building, and 
above this line twenty inches, and backed in with best hard brick. 

The thickness of the walls of the octagonal tower will be two feet three 
inches to the line of the roof, and twenty inches above the line of the roof, 
and backed in with brick, exclusive of the batter at the base and all pro- 
jections. 

The thickness of the walls of the remaining towers will be two feet on« 
an average, exclusive of all projections, and the stories above the roofs 
will be backed in with brick. 

All the remaining walls, if any, to be in no case less than two feet thick, 
and to be executed by the contractor. 

All the thicknesses above given are exclusive of the brick lining wall. 

Brick masouri/. — All the partition walls which rise above the basement 
will be two bricks — say 18 inches in thickness — to the height of the floor 
of the second story, and one and a half brick — say 14 inches in thick- 
ness — from thence to the under side of the rafters of the roof. Arches for 
doors and windows will be turned, of such sizes and in such places as may 
be directed by the architect. 

All the interior arches behind the window arches, door arches, &c., 
will be turned in such manner as architect shall direct, to the form of Nor- 
man jambs, to receive the plaster of the jambs. Trimmer arches of brick, 
nine inches thick, will be turned for all the hot-air and furnace flues in all 
the floors. 

The arches over the pillars supporting the clerestory of the gallery of 
art, in the west connecting range, will be of best hard brick, laid to such 
form as the architect shall direct, and over them a brick wall eighteen 
inches thick will be carried up to the level of the under side of the roof of 
the side aisles. 

Groined arches of brick, eight inches thick, will bo turned in the most 
perfect manner for the ceilings of the mezzanine and upper story of the 
porter's apartments, which will be situated in the lower central front 
tower; they will be filled in with spandrils and haunch walls, supporting 
flag floors of JNorth river flag. If preferred by the contractor, the iron 
beams, with brick arches between them, hereinafter described, may be 
used in place of the above groined arches. 

All the remaining brick-work necessary to complete the building to be 
performed by the contractor, whether specified or not. 

Ciit-stom masoivry. — All the cut-stone rnasonrv, of every description, 
which will be found in the specification of tlie stone and cutting, will be 
set by the mason in the most true, perfect, and substantial manner; and 
nil the iron dowels, clamps, anchors, rods, (fcc.^ necessary to secure and 
render perfect the stone work, will be furnished by the mason; and the 
joints of the cut-stone masonry will be pointed in the same manner as 
above described for the face of building. 

Mortar.— h\\ the mortar for ail the above brick, stone, and cut-stone 
masonry, to be composed of the best hydraulic or ground lime, or of a 



[23] 



70 



mixture of h^'-draulic cement and lime in paste, in such proportions as ar- 
chitect shall direct, mixed with clean sharp sand, in the best proportions, 
and thoroughly tempered. 

All the bricks will be well wet before they are used. 

All the stones will be laid on their natural beds, and thoroughly cleaned 
from dust or dirt before they are laid, and wet, if so directed by the archi- 
tect. 

Laihing and plastering-. — All the ceilings and walls, and stud partition 
walls, of every part of the building, will be lathed to the forms laid down 
on the plans, or as directed by the architect, Math the best sawed laths, five 
nails to each lath. 

All the walls and ceilings of all the rooms in the basement story will be 
plastered with a scratch coat, brown coat, and hard finished coat, laid ou 
true and even, and finished in the best manner. 

All the walls and ceilings of the professors' rooms, laboratories, and 
rooms in the towers, to their tops, except such as are groined, will be 
plastered in a similar manner, with three coats. 

All the canopies and partitions in lecture-rooms to be plastered three 
coats, as above described. 

All the remaining halls and apartments in the whole building, including 
library, museum, the iwo lecture-rooms, the two galleries of art, the great 
central hall and its vestibules, the Regents' room, the front and rear stair 
halls and the rooms in the two central tront towers, the octagonal and cam- 
panile towers below the line of the roof of the main building, Avill be plas- 
tered throughout with two coats, a scratch coat and a stucco-finished brown 
coat, well hand floated, laid on in the most perfect, true, and even manner. 
The brown coat will be laid off in courses and colored to represent stone. 

Ornamental plnstermg. — All the ceilings of the museum, library, gal- 
leries of art, and the rooms connected with them, will be groined and lib- 
bed in the best manner, according to the plans and directions of the archi- 
tect. The ribs will be run at the intersection of all the groins, and across 
tlie ceilings between the groins, against the walls over the windows, and 
in all places which the architect shall direct; all the red lines on the plans 
being ribs. The ribs shall be of rich Norman section, and of good propor- 
tion, varying from 7 by 9 to 11 by 13 inches in the ceilings, and of larger 
dimensions in the arches over the columns dividing the aisles. In the 
gallery of art, heavy ribs, twenty inches wide, shall be run under the 
arches supporting the clerestory. 

At the intersection of all the ribs, and at the crov\mof all the ribs not in- 
tersected by others, bosses of foliage, of the best Norman design, which 
will be furnished by the architect, and of the richest character, well relieved 
from the grounds, will be placed. 

The shafts of all the columns of all the apartments and halls, which 
shall be of the richest character, composed of clusters of engaged columns 
in rebates, and made according to the plans of the architect,\vill be run 
with gaged mortar, in the best, truest, and most workmanUke maimer; 
and all the separate columns of each clustered shaft shall have moulded 
plinths, and bases, and foliage Norman caps, of such design as architect 
shall furnish, and put up and modelled according to his directions. 

Around all the windows a handsome moulded Norman jamb and arch, 
whose section shall be a double rebate, with two engaged columns, shall 
be run. All the columns of the above to have plinthS;, and bases, and 



71 [23] 

foliage Norman caps; and a label mould, resting on two foliage corbels, 
will be run around the arch of each window; and all the above work shall 
be executed according to the plans and directions of the architect. 

Around all the doors, Norman jambs and arches, of the same section as 
those of the windows, but with more mouldings, where directed, shall be 
run. In the arches the mouldings will be ornamented with chevrons, 
cable moulds, atid foliage bands, according to the directions of the archi- 
tect. 

The main central hall, the entrance porch, the rooms in the central front 
towers, the Regents' room, the rooms and stair wells in the octagonal and 
campanile towers, and the ceilings of the principal staircase, halls, and A^es- 
tibules, and vestibule and porch ceilings of the east wing, together with 
the room over the central front and rear stair halls, and the ceilings of both 
of the wings, will be also groined and ribbed in the best manner, and fin- 
ished, in every respect, as above described for the museum^ <fcc. All the 
doors and windows will be finished as above described. 

The ceilings of both the cloisters will be groined in a similar manner. 

All the columns, (fcc, in all the above rooms, will be finished as above 
described; and there will be in all the rooms of the whole building clus- 
tered columns in the centre of the piers between the windows^ with plinths, 
bases, and foliage caps. 

The Regents' room will be finished all around with clustered columns 
and arches, dividing the walls into panels above the wainscoating. All 
the arches over these columns, and those of the triple arched opening be- 
tween the room and the bay window, will be ornamented with zigzag, ca- 
ble, and other Norman mouldings, as maybe directed by the architect. 
All the doors and windows of all the above rooms to have mouldings, 
pillars, &c., as above described for the museum, (fcc. 

The main ceilings of the principal lecture-room, and the gallery ceilings 
of the principal lecture-room, and of that in the east wing, will be level, 
and will be heavily panelled with rich ribs, having foliage bosses at their 
intersections. All the columns, and half columns, in the centre of the 
piers between the windows, all the window and door jambs and arches 
of the above rooms, to be of the form and workmanship hereinbefore de- 
scribed. 

All the columns, window jambs and arches, door jambs and arches, 
ribs, (fcc.jof all the above described rooms and halls, to be laidoflfin 
courses to represent stone. 

All the remaining plaster work, both plain and ornamental, necessary to 
complete the building, will be performed by the contractor, whether speci- 
fied or not. 

The mortar will be made of the best Potomac or Thomaston finishing 
lime, and clean siiarp sand, mixed in the best proportions, and thorough- 
ly tempered. The plaster for the hard finish and gaged mortar to be of 
the best quality. 

All the arres, angles, ribs, pillars, &c., to be kept perfectly plumb, true, 
and even. 

Coloring of walls.— A\\ the walls which are not hard finished will be 
colored by a mixture of lime-water and white, green, and blue vitriol, as 
may be directed; with which, such colors as the architect shall direct 
shall be mixed. 

The coloring shall be put on in two to three coats,, and the last coat 



[23] 



72 



shall be colored different shades on the different parts of the walls, ceil- 
ings, &c. 

Deafening. — All the floors which are not formed on groined ceilings, or 
on iron beams with brick arches between them, will be deafened with a 
mixture of lime, clay, and sand mortar, laid on of such thickness as the 
architect shall direct. 

Iron work. — All the copings, cornices, battlements, window jambs and 
mullions, sills, chimney caps, and in general all the stone work, etc., will 
be tied together with strong wrought iron clamps, anchors, dowels and 
rods, well leaded to the stone work, and of such dimensions as may be di- 
rected by the architect. 

Wrought iron bars |-inch in diameter, and of the widths of the different 
windows to the outside of the jambs, wilt be used where directed, to tie the 
centre mullions to the jambs, especially in the octagonal story of the large 
central tower, and in the greater and lesser octagonal, and the small square 
towers of the central building. 

A bar of f by 2 inch wrought iron will be carried all around both stories 
of the larger octagonal tower, and around the smaller octagonal, and the 
small square towers of the central building, on a level with the spring line 
of the arches of the windows. 

Gratings, of f by 1^ inch wrought iron, will be furnished for the areas 
of the different towers. 

hi^luii'mg rods. — Five lightning rods, of wrought iron, one and a 
half inch in diameter, will be furnished by the mason. They will be 
furnished with elbows, glass thimbles, and platina points, of the best de- 
scription, and will be put up in the foUownio^ places : one on the great 
central front tower, one on the campanile tower, one on the octagonal 
tower, one on the tower of the west wing, and one on the tower of the 
chemical wing; and they will be carried ten feet above the tops of the 
towers to which they are attached. 

Flagging. — The floors of the basement, of the chemical or east wing, 
and its vestibule, and the east connecting range, shall be flagged w ith the 
best North river flag, laid perfectly level, true, and even, and dressed in 
the joints, and laid in at least 12 inches of clean sharp sand and gravel, 
with at least six sess-pools, four feet in di£,meter and six feet deep, under 
each of the above parts of the building. 

The cellars under the front towers, and the space between them, as well 
as those of the central, rear, campanile, octagonal, and lower of the west 
wing, will be similarly flagged. 

After the flag are laid, the joints will be grouted with a mixture of ce- 
ment and sand. 

The floors of the two cloisters wih be flagged with best North riv^er flag, 
axed perfectly smooth on the upper surface, and the stones will be of 
equal size from two to three feet square, and laid diamond -wise in cement- 
mortar. 

The floors of the two galleries of art, in the western wing and western 
connecting range, will be flagged with the best North river flag, axed per- 
fectly smooth, and cut to the form of octagons, of equal size, not more 
than two feet in diameter. The squares between the octagons will be 
filled with tiles of white marble or of red Seneca stone, as may be directed 
by architect, and this will be laid in best cement and sand-mortar. 



73 [ 23 ] 

The floors of the vestibules and central hall will be flagged with the oc- 
tagon and square as above. 

All the joints of all the above flagging will be cut perfectly true, and 
the tiles will be bedded on the best cement and sand -mortar. 

The floors of the rooms over the groined arches, in the central front 
towers, will be flagged with best North river flag, as above described for 
the cellars themselves, laid in the best cement and sand-mortar. 

Fire-proofing. — The floor of the chemical lecture-room, which occu- 
pies the whole east wing, and the floors of the students' working labora- 
tory, and the room above it in the east connecting range, each of which 
is 38 by 24 feet in the clear, will be rendered fire-proof in the following 
manner. Cast iron beams of the shape of the letter T reversed, whose 
vertical arm will be 15 inches in depth, by 1^ inch in width, with a 
bead on the upper end 2^ inches in diameter, and whose horizontal arm 
will be eight inches long, and average 1^ inch in thickness, will be laid 
four feet from centres ; the ends of these beams will run nine inches into 
the walls, and will rest on a cast iron plate, 3 inches wide by 1 inch 
in depth, which will be firmly anchored to the walls ; between these beams, 
arches of brick five inches in depth will be turned to form the floors. 
The spandrils over the arches will be filled in with a mixture of lime, sand, 
and broken stone or gravel, over which a flooring of best North river flag, 
well axed on the upper face, and not more than two inches thick, will be 
laid in the best cement and sand-mortar. 

The floors of the rooms over the janitors' room and of the two rooms 
in the towers, on a level with the museum, making in all four floors 16 feet 
square, (exclusive of those over the groined arches in the cellars of the 
front towers,) will be similarly fire-pruofed, unless they are groined with 
brick as hereinbefore specified. 

The floor of the principal lecture-room will be tiled with best North 
riverflag, laid on brick cross- walls, and well jointed and bedded in cement 
and sand -mortar. 

A border of colored marble tiles four inches square, laid on bricks, in 
cement or plaster of Paris, will be carried around the Regents' room, three 
feet in width. 

^afe. — A fire-proof safe will be constructed in the small octagonal 
tower, attached to the rear tower, with double wrought-iron doors, and 
iron shelves and hollow brick casings, per directions of architect. 

A mantelpiece of red marble, or of such color as the architect shall 
direct, and of the richest Norman pattern, having two columns on each 
side, whose shafts will be a cable-mould and chevron, with plinths and 
moulded bases, and foliage caps of the richest character; over the columns 
a rich frieze, which will be ornamented by a band of Norman foliage, will be 
carried, and over this a label mould filled with pateras or rosettes. Upon 
this mould the shelf will be laid, which will be at least three inches 
thick, and moulded in the front and ends. All the remaining parts of the 
chimney will be completely finished in the best manner. The sides and 
back of the fireplace wfll be laid up of best fire-brick, laid herring-bone 
fashion. 

Dry walls of stone.— ThQ\Q will be four sinksorsess-pools, eight feet in 
diameter and twelve feet deep, walled up in the best manner, with dry 
stone, and placed in such positions as the architect shall direct. 



[23] 



74 



Twenty-fonr sess-pnols, four feet in diameter and six feet deep, walled 
up with dry stone, will be built under the difterent floors of ihe buildnjg. 

All the remaining mason work of every description, necessary to com- 
plete the whole buildnig in the most perfect manner, will be performed by 
the contractor. 

As it is the intention of the above specitication, with the plans, to cover 
the entire and perfect completion of the work, no charge for extra work 
will be allowed the contractor, unless caused by actual alterations of the 
plans. And the contractor will be bound by the sum of ten thousand 
dollars, to abide by the decision of the architect, whose decision in all 
matters relating to the form, dimensions, and finish of all the parts of the 
work, shall be final and conclusive. 

J. RKJN WICK, Jr., Architect. 

[Note. — Contractors will also estimate the difference in expense between 
facing the building with rubble masonry, as hereinbefore specified, or of 
setting the whole face with ashlar, varying in height of course from ten 
to fourteen inches, and averaging eight inches in thickness, the ashlar 
being furnished by the stonecutter.] 



Specification of the stone and cutting for the Smithsonian histitutioji. 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF STONE. 

The contractors will estimate on furnishing all the stone necessary for 
the cutting and the expense of the cutting itself, and will furnish three 
separate estimates of the above, based on white marble, buf!" colored sand- 
stone of the best quality and uniform color, from the upper Potomac, and 
granite of the same color and quality as that in the rear of the General 
Post Office of the United States. 

CUTTING. 

North front porch — Will consist of three arched openings of the dimen- 
sions shown on plans, in courses not exceeding 15 nor less than 12 
inches rise. The jambs will each contain four rebates, filled each with a f 
column on the exterior face, and one rebate, filled in like manner, 
on the interior face. [See plan A, drawings No. 1.] All the columns 
will have handsome moulded Norman plinths and bases and foilage caps. 
The arches of each side will contain a similar number of mouldings to 
the jambs, and each arch will be ornamented with a zigzag, battlement, 
and cable, or other ornamented mouldings. 

The buttresses will be cut of similar courses to the doors, and bush- 
hanmiered on the face, witli moulded caps and a double water table. Be- 
tween the buttresses on all three sides a corbel course handsomely cut, and 
eight to twelve inches projection of semicircular arches, resting on foliage 
brackets, will be carried; and over the corbel course a label mould sup- 
porting the battlement. The battlement will be well cut to the section 
shown in No. 2, plan A. All the face work of the porch will be cut both 
inside and outside. 

Front door. — Between the central front towers and under the porch a 
door, of the dimensions shown on the plans, will be placed. The jambs 



75 [ 23 ] 

will consist of three rebates with f columns, bases and caps, cut as above, 
and the arch will contain three mouldings, one of which will be ornament- 
ed with a zigzag or cable mould. 

Sills and steps. — The sill of the door will be made in three heights of 
eight inches each, to form steps "to rise from the ground to the first floor. 

The windovv and niches over front door will have jambs of a single 
rebate, with a | colunm, with moulded plinths, bases and foliage caps. In 
the arches the columns will be replaced by an octagon, and an octagonal 
label mould resting on four corbels will be carried over the heads of die 
three openings, for section of windows. (See plan A, No. 3.) Sills will 
be 10 inches in height. 

(/ircular window will be of the diameter shown on plan. The section 
of the jamb will be as shown on plan A, No. 4, and the tracery will be 
per plans and direction of architect, the mullions not bemg less than six 
inches diameter, with moulded caps, plinths and bases, and the arches 
being splayed on both sides, and handsomely foiled; the foil in centre to 
be sunk through. 

The moulding under the circular window will be a hook label, of size 
shown on plans. 

If so directed, the circular window shall have tracery similar to the one 
in the west end of the centre building. 

Under the interlaced arches of the battlement, another label mould, eight 
to twelve inches high, will run. The interlaced arches will be 18 inches 
higher than shown in plan, and will be sunk through. The pillars will 
be octagonal, with plain plinths, bases and caps, supporting the arches, 
and over the arches a neat hook label of proper size will be run. Niches 
or windows in pediment. Three niches, (or if so directed, windows,) with 
a splay and column jamb and arch, (plan A, No. 5,) will be cut for the 
pediment. Their sills seven inches high. 

A corbel course will be carried up the pediment, of semicircular corbels, 
resting on neat brackets, and projecting eight inches from face of wall. 
The cornice or coping will be 12 inches by 28 inches, cut to the form of 
three sides of an octagon, and on the apex of the gable a handsome finiai 
will be cut the size shown on plan, and of approved design. 

Two base courses or water tables will be carried around the whole build- 
ing, with the exception of the east wing. They will be cut to the dimen- 
sions and section directed by the architect. 

Central front to7vers. — On all the corners of all the buttresses, which 
will be of rubble masonry, an arris two inches wide each way will be cut, 
so as to enable the stones to be set perfectly vertical, plumb, true, and even. 

Buttress caps.— AW the buttress caps to be of cut stone, handsomely 
moulded and finely cut, per directions of architect. 

The 1st row of corbels under zigzag mould will be of good design, 
eight on each side of each tower, well moulded and cut with foliage and 
heads. 

An enriched lozenge or zigzag mould will be cut of dimensions shoAvn 
on plans, sunk six inches between the panels, and of such pattern as 
the architect shall direct, and cut in the best manner. 

Sills of 1st tier of windows, and tiiches, and sill course. — Over the zig- 
zag an octagonal sill course six inches high will be carried. Sills ol win- 
dows will be 10 inches high. Jambs of 1st tier of windows will consist 
of a splay and column, (see plan A, No. 7.) Arches of splay and octagon, 



[23] 



76 



(see plan A, No. S.) A label resting on corbels will be carried around the 
heads of the windows and niches. The mullions will be cut to the form, 
of a double jamb, with a fillet between them, (as shown in Nos. 8 and 9.) 

The bases, plintlis, and capitals, will be furnished for all the columns 
of such design as architect shall direct, and they shall have foliage caps 
well undercut. 

In the arches the column will be replaced by a square w-ith a heed on 
the angle, or by an octagonal mould, (see plan No. 9,) and the remainder 
of the arch shall be the same as the section of the jamb. 

Corbel courses over the 1st tier of loindows. — A handsome corbel course, 
with moulded corbels under the arches, shall run all around both towers, 
(see Nos. 10 and 11,) and project from six to eiglit inches; a moulding 
shall run over the head of the corbel course, with a batter on top to shed 
the rain. 

Between the corbel course and the band under the 2d windows a 
panel course, well sunk, (see plan A, No. 12,) will be carried around bot,li 
towers, of such design as architect shall direct. 

The sill course under the second windows will be a semicircle and fillet, 
and five sides of an octagon, of the height shown on plan, and finley cut. 

The sills of the 2d tier of windows will be 15 inches in thickness. 

The jambs, arches, labels, plinths, bases and caps, will be of tlie same 
section as those of the 1st tier; they will be finely patent-hammered or well 
cut, and of such dimensions as to section as the architect shall direct. 

Corbels over '2d tier of windoics. — On each side of each tower, nine or 
ten corbels or modellions of good dnsign, handsomely moulded, will be 
placed, and of such size as architect shall direct. These corbels will sup- 
port an octagonal moulding, well cut, and of such dimensions as architect 
shall direct. 

The sill course of panelled arcade over this octagonal moulding, will 
be of such dimensions and section as architect shall direct. 

A panelled arcade of seven to eight arches, supported by pillars, with 
plain caps and bases, will be carried along two sides of each tower — 32 pan- 
els in all; they will be sunk of such depths as the architect shall direct: 

Moulding over arcade and sjdayed sill cowsc. — Over this arcade a label 
mould with a splayed sill course, having in it one break and being a con- 
tinuation of the buttress caps, will be carried around three sides of each 
tower, of such dimensions and section as architect shall direct. 

Above the sill course, the sills of the upper windows, which will be 1.5 
inches high and of such section as architect shall direct, will be carried. 
They will be well cut. 

Windoics, 3d tier. — The third tier of windows will vary in the two 
towers per plans; there being a double window on each of the four sides of 
the larger tower, and a triple one on each of the four sides of the lower 
tower. The section of all the jambs will he as shown on plan A, Nos. 7 
and S, and they will be of such dimensions as the architect shall direct. 
All the columns of all the above jambs will havephnths and bases of good 
designs and foliage Norman caps, approved by architect. The arches will 
have the same section as the jambs, except over the pillar caps, where the 
circular shaft will be replaced by an octagonal moulding. 

FinisJi of lower central front tower, above Zd tier of windows. — 1st. A 
corbel course projecting lU inches from the face of the wall, of semicircular 
corbels, supported on brackets, will be carried all around the four sides of 



77 [ 23 ] 

the tower. Over this an octagonal moulding; over this a zigzag or panel- 
led i-noiilding, of such dimensions, pattern, and workmanship as architect 
shall direct, well sunk; over this zigzag or panelled moulding, an octa- 
gonal moulding — then a vertical band; over this band a | circle; and 
over this a cove, with an octagonal or splayed top for the cornice or coping. 

All the above mouldings to run all round the four sides of the tower, and 
to be of such dimensions, workmanship, and design, as architect shail 
direct. The upper bed of the upper stone or coping will be at least 30 
inches, with a groove sunk one inch all round, to secure the roofing mate- ' 
rial, to prevent all leakage. 

Finisli of larger front, toiofv ohove the third tier of rcindoios. — Four 
circular windows for clock faces, one on each side of the tower, of a 
diameter not exceeding nine feet, will be placed over each set of double 
windovv^s. The jambs will be of tlie section shown on plan A, No. 14, 
and in the mouldings the numbers of the hours will be cut. The win- 
dows will be filled with handsome Norman tracery of pillars, and semi- 
circular arches of such dimensions, &c., as architect shall direct. 

Splayed corners. — Above these circular windows the tower changes 
the form of its ground plan from that of a square to that of an octagon, 
by means of four splayed corners, (per plans;) these corners will be of 
coursed cut stone, well cut on the beds, builds and faces, 12 inches high 
in each course, and having a drip mou'd cut on the under side of each 
stone to prevent the water from getting into the joints. 

An octagonal moulding will be carried all around the base of the octa- 
gon at the point where the splay ceases. This moulding will be fine cut, 
and not less than 12 nor more than 16 inches in height. 

Piinutcles. — An octagonal moulding of similar dimensions to the one 
above will be carried all around the top of the 16 buttresses of the princi- 
pal tower; and on each of the buttresses an octagonal or cross-shaped pin- 
nacle, having a plinth, pillars with caps, bases, and arches, and mould- 
ings. Arched panels, corbels, and mouldings of such dimensions, design, 
and workmanship, as the architect shall direct. The pinnacles will be 
each capped by a single stone, having the form of an octagonal pyramid, of 
such dimensions as architect shall direct, surmounted by. a handsome 
finial. All the above work to be cut in the best manner. 

A sill course of octagonal form will be carried around the whole tower, 
under the sills of the fourth tier of windows, of such dimensions as ar- 
chitect shall direct. Sills of the windows of the octagonal section will be 
15 inches in height, and of such depth as may be directed by architect. 

All the windows of the octagonal section will have jambs of such sec- 
tion as architect shall direct, and detached columns not more than 12 
inches lesser diameter, of oval form, will divide the windows into two 
bays. 

The columns of the jambs and the central columns, or muUion, will have 
plinths and bases of good design, and ornamented Norman caps, of such 
dimensions and pattern as may be approved by architect. The splay of 
the jambs will be continued around the arches; the tracery of the wnidow 
heads will be sunk through single stones of not less than nine mches m 
thickness; the arris of the arches will be splayed, and the quatresfoil over 
them will also be sunk through, and the whole will be fine cut, per dn-ec- 
tions of architect. 
. All the corners of the octagonal section of the tower will leave an arris 



L 



[23] 



78 



drawn on them, so that they will be perfectly plumb, true, and even, in 
ev^ery respect. 

A corbel table will be carried around the octagon over the arches of the 
fourth tier of windows, per plans, with handsome brackets neatly mould- 
ed under semicircular arches, which will project from 10 to 12 inches. 

Over this corbel table a splay fillet and octagonal moulding will be car- 
ried to the under side of the ornamental band, of such dimensions and 
•workmanship as the architect shall direct. 

Over this octagonal mould an ornamented course, having a zigzag 
chevron, or a star or enriched lozenge or triangular frette, of such dimen- 
sions and pattern as architect shall direct, and well cut, will be carried. 

Above this a series of six mouldings, of such dimensions and pattern as 
the architect shall direct, and terminated by an octagonal moulding 16 
inches high*and 30 inches bed, for a cornice, with a rabbet to receive the 
lead connecting the roof covering with the stone, will be carried. 

Parapet of toicer. — A parapet 3 feet 6 inches in height, with a moulded 
base and octagonal coping, will be carried all around the top of the tower, 
over the cornice. All the stones between the base and coping will be 15 
inclies thickness of bed, and fine cut on both faces and both beds, as 
will the coping and base. The whole to be of such proportions as the 
architect shall direct. 

The buttresses of both central front towers Avill have an arris or draught, 
fine cut, drawn on all the corners, so that they will, w'hen laid, be per- 
fectly plumb, true, and even. 

All ihe mouldings, buttress caps, base courses, and in general all the 
ornamental work on tiie buttresses, will be well cut and of such dimen- 
sions and design as architect shall direct. And all the work nu bolli 
front towers, the porch and space between the towers, to be cut and fur- 
nished, whether specified or not. 

In each of the walls between front towers and main building, there 
will be a door four feet six inches opening, and ten feet six inches high in 
the clear. Their jambs and arches will be of the following section, (see 
plan A, No. IS,) and v/ell cut, and the columns will have bases, plinths, 
and foliage. Capitals of such design as may be approved of by the archi- 
tect. The bands and corbel courses, and battlements of the front of the 
central buildmgs, hereinafter described, will be continued along these 
walls to the rears of the central front towers, a total length of 14 feet each. 

Windows. — In each of the above spaces there will be three windows, 
averaging ten feet high, and four feet broad in the openings, with arches 
and jambs of section (plan A, No. 17) well and truly cut, and of such 
dimensions as architect shall direct. 

Cat slone in front and rear of central building. 

Two bases, their courses of section described, will be carried around 
both of the fronts and buttresses. 

Buttresses. — The corners of all the buttresses will be dressed with a 
draught or arris, so that they will be perfectly plumb, true, and even, when 
laid. 

Buttress cps will be gable shaped, and project one foot to sixteen 
inches from liie corbel table behind them. They will be well and tiuly 



^9 [ 23 ] 

cut, with a circular bead on the apex, and of such dimensions &c. as 
architect shall direct. ' ' 

Band undPT loindows.— Under the first tier of windows a moulding, 
consisting of a splay, or cove, a fillet, and an octagonal moulding, of such 
dimensions as architect shall direct, will be carried. 

The window-sills of the first tier of windows will be 10 inches hit>h 
well cut, with a rebate to receive the sash. ^ 

The jambs of the windows will be cut to the form of a splay and col- 
umn, in a rebate, and of such dimensions as architect shall direct. All 
the columns to have plinths and bases, handsomely moulded, and foliage 
Norman caps of such design as architect shall approve. 

The arches of the windows will be of the same section as the jambs, 
with tlie exception that the circular moulding, or shaft of column, will be 
replaced by an octagonal one. 

Labels resting on oryiam.ental corbels^ of handsome design, will be car- 
ried over the heads of all these windows. 

A corbel table of semicircular arches, supported on handsomely carved 
drops, will extend from buttress to buttress, along the whole front and 
rear. The projection of this corbel table will be from eight to ten inches. 

The octagonal sill-course under the sills of the second tier of windows, 
will be cut to such dimensions as architect shall direct. 

The sills of the second tier of windows will be from 16 to 18 inches in 
height, and cut per plans and directions of architect. 

The window jambs will be cut to the f)rm of a splay and octagonal, 
or oval column, in a rebate, of such dimensions as architect directs. 

The columns in the centre will be of the same shape as those of the 
jambs, and of such dimensions as arcliitect shall direct. All the above 
columns to have plinths, bases, and lollage capitals, of such design as 
architect shall direct. 

The splay of the jamb will continue around the arch, and a handsomely 
moulded label, with two carved foliage corbels, will be carried around the 
arches. Tracery will be of the form shown on plans, at least nine inches 
thick, and moulded on all the edges. The space between the pointed 
arches of the tracery will be sunk two inches on both sides from the face 
of the arch, and a trefoil will be sunk through it, if so directed by archi- 
tect. 

A corbel course of large size, projecting from 15 to 18 inches from the 
face of the walls, will be run all along both front and rear ; the corbels 
will have semicircular arches, supported by handsome moulded drops, 
and will be of such dimensions and design as architect sliall approve. 

Over the corbel table a moulding, consisting of a splay and fillet, will 
run all around, if so directed by architect. This moulding is not shown 
on plans. 

Above this line the battlements will be carried along the whole front 
and rear of the building. The battlement will be well cut; and where it 
is above the roof, will be 16 inches in thickness, and cut on both sides. 
The coping of the batdement will be cut to the section shown in plan 
A, No. 16, and of such dimensions as architect shall direct, and the bat- 
tlement shall be 18 inches higher than shown on plans. 

All the remaining cut work, and f?tone therefor, necessary to finish 
completely the front and rear of the central building, will be furnished 
by the contractor, whether specified or not. 



[23] 



80 



East end of central build his^s. — The band under the windows will ex- 
tend along the -whole end of buildmg, between the towers, and will be 
cut to the form of five sides of an octagon, of such dimensions as archi- 
tect sh.all direct. 

Buttress corners will have an arris drawn up them, as before described, 
for front and rear. 

Triple vnndoiD. — The triple window Avill have a sill 15 inches in 
lieight, and of such other dimensions as architect shall direct. 

The jambs and intermediate jambs will be of the section shown on 
plan B, No. 1, and of sucii dimensions as architect shall direct. 

All the columns in the jambs to have plinths and bases, and capitals, 
V'ith Norman foliage. The arches will be of the same section as the 
jambs, with an octagonal moulding, taking the place of the shaft of the 
column. A label mould, of the form of five sides of an octagon, will be 
carried all around the heads of the three windows, from the level of the 
caps of the columns of the side windows, and four handsomely carved 
corbels will be carried on the level of these caps, from which the label 
will spring. 

Tlie smaller end windows will have sills, jambs, aiches, bases, capitals, 
plinths, corbels, and labels, of the same section as the triple window. 

Corbel course. — Along the whole end, and its gable, a handsome heav- 
ily-sunk corbel table, of semicircular arches, springing from handsomely- 
carved brackets or drops, will be carried. It will project from 12 to 15 
inches from the face of the wail. 

Coping. — An octagonal copinp-, at least 15 inches high and 30 inches 
to bed, will be carried along over the whole end wall, with a proper 
groove for roof covering, sunk in build. 

We.st end of main building. — A sill course of octagonal form will ex- 
tend along the whole end between the towers. 

The arris of buttresses, and arched panels over them, will be dressed 
perfectly true and even. 

Circular windoxv. — The jamb will be cut to the section, (plan C, No. 
1.) The tracery will be cat on both faces, with columns, with plinths, 
bases and caps, quatrefoils, six-foils, and trefoil, tracery heads and mould- 
ings, of such design and dimensions as architect shall direct, and be 
complete in every respect. 

A corbel coursti will be carried up the gable of the centre compartment, 
of such design, workmanship, and dimensions, as architect shall direct. 

Two wHidows at sides of circular windows will be furnished with 
jambs, arches, &c.', cut in same way as described for windows of east 
end. 

The two small circular windows will have jambs of the section shown 
in plan C, No. 2. 

The quatrefoil tracery will be eight inches thick, dressed on both sides, 
and splayed on edges. 

A hook label mould will be carried along the whole end under the par- 
apet. 

The coping will be similar in every respect to that of east end. And 
all the above to be of such dimensions and wormanship as architect shall 
approve. 



i 



81 [ 23 ] 

Tovjers of east end of main building. 

CAMPANILE. 

The campanile, a larger tower, will consist of four stories, or external 
divisions. The two base courses, hereinbefore described, will extend all 
around it. 

The jambs of the doors will be cut to the section of two rebates, with 
one engaged column in one of them. And there will be four windows, 
^not seen on plan,) in the first story, with sills, splayed jambs and arches. 
A splayed water-table will be carried all around under the second story. 

iSecond story. — On each side of the second story there will be two pan- 
els, with arched heads, formed by buttresses, which will project from 
six to eight inches from the face. The corners of the tower buttresses 
and arches will be dressed perfectly true and even, so as to be perfectly 
plumb, when laid. 

Windows. — In each of the panels there will be three windows with 
splayed sills, jambs and arches. 

Cornice of second story will consist of a splay, or an ogee, a wide band, 
and an octagonal moulding, all cut in the best manner. 

If the architect shall so direct, the splay or ogee shall be replaced by 
corbels, 

Tlurd story. — A base course, with splayed top, will run all around the 
tower. 

The eight windows of third story will have sills ten inches in height. 

The jambs will consist of a splay and column in a rebate, and the nml- 
lions of a column on a pilaster. 

The arches will be of the shape of a trefoil, of the same section as the 
jambs, and the tracery, with splayed angles and panels, will be carried 
from capital to capiial of the columns, per plans and directions of archi- 
tect. All the columns will have bases, capitals, and plinths, handsomely 
carved and moulded. 

Over the windows a corbel course of ten corbels or modillions, on each 
side of the tower, will be carried; the corbels will be handsomely cut and 
moulded, (not shown on plan.) 

Over tlie corbels an octagonal moulding will be carried, of such dimen- 
sions as architect shall direct. 

Fourth story. — A splayed base course will be carried all around the 
fourth story of the tower. 

The window-sills of the eight windows of the fourth story of the tower 
will be 10 inches high. The jambs and centre mullions will be cut to 
the same section as those of the third story. 

The tracery will be eight inches thick, splayed on corners with a 
quatrefoil pierced through each tracery head over the arches. 

Over the fourth story there will be, first, a moulding consisting of a 
splay and a fillet. Over this a zigzag or chevron mould, well sunk ; 
over the chevron a fillet, and an a.volo supporting a corbel course of 
semicircular arches on plain brackets, projecting from eight to twelve 
inches from the face of the wall. 

The coping of the lower will be octagonal, 12 inches high by 24 inches 
bed, and grooved to receive the roof covering. 

All the parts of the above tower, including doors, buttresses, bandSj 
6 



[23] 



82 



corbels, mouldings, windows, c^c, to be of the dimensions, workman- 
ship, and design furnished by architect. 

^Smaller tou-er of east end.— B?ise courses to be carried all around. 

The tower will consist of three stories externally ; the lower one 
being square, and the two upper ones octagonal. 

First story. — A sloping base, eight inches high, will extend along the 
bottom of the panel, between the buttresses on each side. 

The sides of the first story will each have a panel with circular head, 
formed by buttresses and arches, projecting six inches from the face of 
the wall, and all the angles of the tower and buttresses will be dressed 
perfectly true and even. 

Wmdows. — On each side of the first story there will be two windows, 
with splayed sills, jambs, and arches, which will be well and truly cut. 

An octagonal moulding will be carried around over the top of the first 
story. 

iSplays. — The square of the first story will be gradually drawn into an 
octagonal form by four splayed corners, which will be of cut stone, with 
drips on under side, of same character and workmanship as described for 
the main central tower. 

Windows of the second story will have sunk jambs and arches, cut per- 
fectly true and even. 

A hook label moulding will be carried around the top of the second 
story of the tower. I'he parapet or broad btuid over this story will be of 
cut stone. A splayed coping will be carried over the parapet and under 
the third story. 

An octagonal sill course will be carried around the tower under the 
window-sills of the third story. 

The window-sills of tlie third story will be eight (S) inches in height. 

The jambs and arches of the windows will be splayed, or of the sec- 
tion of a rebate, with an engaged column ; all the corners of the tower will 
be cut perfectly true and even. 

A corbel course will be carried around the tow^er, forming the first mem- 
ber of the cornice; it will be of semicircular arches, supported by plain 
brackets, and will project eight inches from face of tower wall. Over 
this corbel cornice a splay moulding will be carried. And over the splay 
the cornice will consist of five members of such design and dimensions 
as arcliitect sliall direct. The top bed of the upper member or coping 
shall he two feet wide, with a groove cut to attach the root covering. 

All the parts of the above tower to be of such workmanship, dimen- 
sions, and design, as the architect shall direct. 

Toii-ars of ice.st and if main building. — Octagonal tower of southwest 
corner will consist of four stories externally. 

The two base courses will be carried around the first story. Above 
the base courses the first story will be battered, per plans, and all the 
corners will be dressed so as to be perfectly true and even. A splayed^ 
water table will finish the first story. 

IS econd story. — All the corners will be dressed true and even, so as to 
be perfectly plumb, when laid. 

Windows. — There will be two windows in each side with splayed 
sills, jambs, and arches. 

Loop-holes. — There will also be one cross-shaped loop-hole in each 
side, sunk through the walls and cut perfectly true and ev^en, with tre- 
foils on the ends of the arms. 



83 [ 23 ] 

A hoolfed label mould will be carried around the tower, and well cut. 
The parapet of th'^. first story, over the label, will be a broad band of cut 
slone, finished on top with a splayed coping. 

Third story. — The base or sill course of the third story will be well 
cat and splayed on upper edge. 

The windows of the third story will form a continuous arcade all 
around. The jambs and the centre mullions will be cut to section showa 
on plan D, No. 1. 

xill the columns will have plinth bases and foliage Norman caps. The 
section of the arch will be same as that of jamb, except that a square or 
octagonal moulding will take the place of the shaft of the column. The 
tracery will be eight to ten inches thick, the arches will be raised, and 
over them a quatrefoil pierced tlirough the panel in the head of each 
tracery. 

A corbel course of small moulded corbels, seven on each side of the 
tower, well cut, will be carried around under the cornice of the third story. 
The cornice of the third story will be octagonal and well cut. The v/hole 
story will be eighteen inches higher than shown on plan. 

Fourth story. — The base course will have a splayed top mould or water 
table on which the widow sills will rest. 

The window sills will be six inches high. The windows of the fourtii 
story will also form a continuous arcade. The jambs will be cut to tne 
section shown on plan D, No. 2, and the arches will be of trefoil form, 
and cut per directions of architect. All the columns will have plinths, 
caps, and bases of good design. 

A hook label mould will be carried around under the parapet. 

The parapet will contain two sunk panels on each side, each of which 
will be of handsome Norman patera, of such design as may be approved 
by architect. The parapet will be sixteen inches thick, and dressed oti 
both sides, and will be coped by a coping twenty inches bed, cut to the 
section shown on plan D, No 3. 

A balustrade of columns, with caps, bases, arches, etc., will fill the 
spaces between the jambs of the windows of fourth story, per end view. 

The northwest corner tower will be divided externally into three 
stories. 

The first story will be similar to that of the southeast corner tower. 

The second story will be square with splayed corners, handsomely cut; 
it will rise from a splayed base mould, and have two windows with reba- 
ted jambs on each side. The cornice of the second story will be a hook 
label mould, over which will be a plain parapet, with splayed coping well 
cut. 

lliird story.— The base course will be well cut, with a splayed top. 

Windows.— There will be four windows, with sills 10 inches high, well 
cut. The jambs and arches wiU be a splay and column in a rebate, with 
handsome plinths, caps, and bases. The centre mullion will be a column 
on a pilaster. The tracery will be eight inches thick, with raised arches, 
and a quatrefoU pierced through the panel in the head. 

In the gables over the windows a sunk quatrefoil panel will be cut. 

The coping will be a hook label mould, IS inches bed, grooved as usual 
to receive the roof covering, and a neat finial will be cut tor each gable. 

Central recir toiver.— The two base courses will be carried all around 
the buttresses, &c. All the corners of all the buttresses will have an arris 



[23] 



84 



run along them. All the mouldings and buttress caps will be cut in the 
best manner, and of most approved design. 

Door. — The door jambs will be of the section of four rebates, contain- 
ing four detached shafts or engaged columns, having bases and plinths 
handsomely moulded, and capitals cut in the best manner, with Norman 
ioliage, well sunk and undercut; (see plan D, No, 4) 

The arch will have four Norman mouldings, two of which will be or- 
namented with a chevron and cable mould; (see plan D, No. 5.) 

A label of octagonal form, and ornamented on the lower face with a 
Norman leaf, will be carried over the arch of the door, and will spring 
from two foliage corbels of best design and workmanship. 

Bay windoiD. — The bracket of the bay window, which will project not 
less than six feet six inches from the face of the wall, will consist of av 
series of mouldings rising from a large carved corbel. All the fl\ce work 
of the windows between the corbel and the sills will be well cut in both 
faces and both beds, to a thickness of 13 inches. 

An octagonal sill course will be carried all around the tower on a le\^el 
with the under side of the sills of the bay window. The window sills 
will be 10 inches high, cut in the best manner. 

Ail the face work of the bay window above ihe sill course will be f^ne 
cut. 

There will be three windows, one on each side of the bay. The jambs 
and muUions will be of the section shown on plan D, No. 6. 

All the pillars will have plinths, bases, and foliage caps. The arches of 
the tracery will be raised, and a quatrefoil will be pierced through the 
sunk panel over them. The tracery will be nine inches thick. The 
arch of the window will be of same section as the jamb, except a sqviare 
will take the place of the shaft of column. Over the windows a double 
label mould will be carried all around the bay window, and above this line 
there will be a battlement cut in the best manner, and of good design. 
'I'he battlement will be cut on both sides. 

Sides of first stnri/ of tower. — On each side of the small octagonal tower 
a window with splayed jambs, arches, and sills, will be cut, and two 
similar windows will be placed on the opposite side. 

On each side of the octagonal tower in the second stor3/ a windoAV with 
rebated jambs, having each an engaged column, will be cut in the best 
manner; and there will be two similar ones on the opposite side of tower, 
between which a niche, having a foliage corbel and canopy, cutm the best 
manner, will be placed. 

A hook label mould of large size will be carried all around the top of 
the second story, and well cut. 

Third story. — The base course of the third story will be splayed on up- 
per bed, and well cut. 

The front and rear will each contain a single large window, having a 
jamb with the section of a splay, and engaged column in a rebate, and a 
mullion or central column supporting tracery. The tracery arches will be 
raised, and a quatrefoil pierced through the sunk panel. 

Over the arch of the window there will be an octagonal label resting on 
two handsome corbels, which will be well cut. All the columns to have 
bases, plinths, and foliage caps. 

The sides of the third story will each be pierced by two windows, having 
splay and column in a rebate for the jambs and arches. 



85 [ 23 ] 

Battlements, c^'c. — The machiolations under the battlement will project 
two feet from the face of the wall, and will be formed of semicircular 
arches, springing from moulded corbels; above these M-ill rise the battle- 
ment, well cut on both sides, 20 inches in thickness, and coped with a 
heavy moulded coping, (per plan of architect.) 

The octagonal stair tower attached to the above will have cross-shaped 
loop holes and slits to light the stairs from top to bottom. All the mould- 
ings of the main tower will be carried around it, and it will be finished at 
the top by a battlement with cross-shaped loop-holes. A door for entrance, 
with plain rebated jambs, will be placed in one side of this tower on the 
level of the ground, with proper sills, &c.; and all the corbels and ether 
mouldings of the tower will be well cut. 

East connecting range — cloister. — The front of the cloister will be a 
continuous arcade of six-arched openings filled with mullions and tracery. 
The section of the jambs and mullions will be as shown on plan A, No. 
15. 

All the columns will have plinths and bases handsomely moulded, and 
foliage capitals of best description. 

The tracery in the heads will be nine inches in thickness, with raised 
archeSj and the panels over these arches will be pierced with quatre- 
foils. An octagonal label resting on handsome corbels will be carried over 
the arches. 

The cornice will consist of a corbel table of semicircular arches resting 
on moulded corbels, projecting at least 10 inches from the face of the wall. 
The coping will be octagonal, IS inches bed, with grooves, &c., as usual. 
The arches of the cloister will rest on a sill 12 inches thick and 30 inches 
bed. Underneath the sills an octagonal moulding will be carried. 

There will be six small windows with splayed jambs, one under each 
of the above arches, to light the basement, and two base courses, as usual. 

North front of connecting range behind cloister will be finished with 
eight windows, with jambs and arches of section of a rebate with engaged 
column or a splay, and of same dimensions as those of the south side. 

South front of connecting range will consist of seven bays, divided by 
buttresses projecting 8 to 12 inches from the walls. 

The two base courses will be carried all around the buttresses and 
walls. 

An octagonal sill course will be carried along under the windows. The 
sills of the windows will be six inches high. The section of the jambs 
and windows will be of a rebate and engaged column or a splay, with 
bases, plinths, and capitals to the columns. The arches will be of same sec- 
tion as the jambs, with an octagonal moulding instead of the shaft of the 
column. Over the heads of the windows an octagonal label mould rising 
from two moulded or foliage corbels will be run. 

A corbel course, projecting from 10 to 12 inches from the face of the 
wall, will be carried from buttress to buttress. The corbels will consist of 
semicircular arches rising from moulded dentils. The coping will be oc- 
tagonal. 

A small window with splayed jambs, sills, and arches, will be cut for 
each compartment, and they will be placed underneath the windows above 
described. 

Above the coping there will be a battlement three feet high, with open- 
ings for windows alternating with carved panels. This will be coped 



[23] 



86 



c? 



witli an octagonal coping of IS inches bed, with a groove for the roofin_ 
material cut in it. This is not shown on plans. 

East wing. — The basement of the east wing will be battered, per plans. 
Windo7Ds. — There will be 14 windows in the basement, with spla\-ed 
or rebated jambs, sills, and arches. 

The basement will be coped with a water table 12 inches in height, 
splayed on the upper bed. 

Windows front and r&ar of wwg. — An octagonal sill course will extend 
along the front and rear under the window sills. The window sills will 
be nine inches high. 

The jambs of the windows wilt be a splay and engaged column in a re- 
bate, with a mullion, as hereinbefore described, and tracery in the head with 
raised arches and pierced qnatrefoil, and an octagonal label mould will be 
carried around each arch, resting on two handsome corbels. The plinths 
and bases of the columns and foliage capitals will be well cut and 
moulded. 

K porch, with four steps of 7 inches rise by 12 inches tread carried all 
around it, will serve for the east entrance to the wing. A water table with 
splayed top bed will extend all around the porch. 

The door jamb v/ill be cut to the section of a splay, and engaged col- 
umn in a rebate, with plinths, bases, and foliage caps. The arch will be 
well cut, and a label will be carried around over the arch, resting on two 
handsome corbels. 

The cornice Avill consist of 16 corbels or dentils, handsomely moulded, 
supporting a well cut parapet, surmounted by an octagonal coping of 16 
inches bed. 

The vestibule will have a Avater table similar to that of the porch car- 
ried round it ; over the porch will be a window v/ith a jamb of the sec- 
tion of a splay and engaged column in a rebate, with a centre mullion, 
tracery with raised arches and pierced qnatrefoil, and an octagonal label 
monld resting on two corbels, all cut in the best manner, with plinths, 
bases, and capitals, as hereinbefore described. The window sill will be 
eight inches in height. On each of the sides of the vestibule will be a 
double window with splayed jambs, and arches, and sills. An octagonal 
label, resting on three plain corbels, will be run around ihe arches. 

A corbel course, projecting from 8 to 10 inches from the foce of the 
wail, will be carried all around t!ie sides and gable of the vestibule. It 
will consist of semicircular arches resting on handsome moulded brack- 
ets. The cornice will be octagonal, 1 8 inches bed, and a handsome finiai 
will be cut and placed on the apex of the gable. 

East and west sides of east wing will be finished precisely alike, ex- 
cept where the west side is covered by the connecting range, and with 
the exception of the central bell tower, which will be only on the east 
side. The interlaced arches wilt be carried through the west side from 
chimney to chimney. 

The ten small windows, on each side above water table, will have 
splayed jambs, arches, and sills. 

The four large triple windows will have sills eight inches liigli. The 
jambs and nndlions will be of the section shown on plan E, JNo. 1, 

The columns of the jambs M-ill have plinths, bases, and foliage capi- 
tals 5 and from the abacus of the capital an octagonal label mould will be 
carried around the head of the windows. 



87 [ 23 ] 

Chimfipys.—Six chimneys springing from handsomely moulded brack- 
ets, and projecting two feet six inches from the jace of the wall, with 
splayed corners well cut, will be carried from the water fable to the 
heiirht shown on plans. They will have octagonal mouldings, splayed 
cornices, and pierced windows, with baitlemented tops of dimensions and 
workmanship directed by architect. 

hitfrlnrcd arch. — Between the chimneys on the west side, and between 
the bell tower and the chimneys on the east side, an arcade of interlaced 
Norman arches, resting on handsome columns with neat plinths, bases, 
and capitals, and IS inches higher than shown on plans, and cut in the 
best manner, will be placed. The arcade will rest on an octagonal sill 
course, supported by handsome moulded corbels or dentils, and will be 
capped with a heavy hook label moulding, with an 18-inch bed grooved 
to receive the roofing. 

Bell tower will be carried up plain to the height shown on plans, with 
the corners cut true and even, and with two roll mouldings projecting 
from the north and south sides. 

A corbel course of plain corbels will be carried around the top of the 
first story. 

The coping of the first story will he a fillet and splay 18 inches in 
thickness. 

The base course of the second story will be splayed on its upper bed, 
and well cut. 

The corners of the tower will be splayed. 

The window sills will be eight inches high. 

The widow jambs will be cut to the form of a splay and column, v/ith 
plinths, base, and capital. 

The arch will be of same section as jamb, with a square moulding, 
taking the place of the shaft of the column^ and around the arch a label, 
rising from neat corbels, will be carried. 

The cornice will be a splay and fillet, and will be coped by a plain 
coping, per plans. 

Battlement of ends, (^"c — The machiolations under the battlement 
will overhang the walls two feet six inches. They will consist of semi- 
circular arches, resting on handsome moulded corbels. Above this the 
battlement Avill rise; and where it is above the roof, it will be dressed on 
both sides, and 16 inches in thickness. The batdement will be coped 
with a handsome moulded coping. 

Western counectit/s^ range — -dmsfer. — 'The cloister will consist of 
three compartments, divided by buttresses, each containing a triple arched 
opening. 

The two base courses will be carried along the front. In the base- 
ment seven small windows will be cut, with splayed sills, jambs, and 
arches. 

An octagonal sill course will be carried under the sills of the cloister, 
with a bed and build of at least 24 inches, grooved to receive lead. 

The buttresses between the triple arches will be well cut, and project 
eight inches beyond the walls above the arches. The pillars supporting the 
arches will be well cut, and will have plinths, bases, and handsome foliage 
caps, cut in the best manner. The arches will be of the section of a re- 
bate and splay, and well cut on both sides. 

A corbel course of semicircular arches, projecting eight inches from face 



[ 23 ] 88 

©f wall, resting on handsome moulded drops, will be carried between the 
buttresses. 

The cornice will be octagonal; well cut, with a bed of at least eighteen 
inches, grooved as usual. 

The front of the connecting range behind the cloister will have win- 
dows, cut similar to those of the south front. 

The south front will be divided by buttresses into seven bays. The two 
base courses will run along the whole front. Seven small windows with 
splayed jambs, sills, and arches, will be cut for the basement. 

An octagonal sill course will be carried under the sills between the but- 
tresses. 

The window sills will be seven inches high. 

The jambs, arches, and labels of the windows will be cut in the same 
manner as those of the eastern connecting range. 

The corbel table, between the buttresses and the coping, will also be cut 
in the same manner as those of the eastern connecting range. 

Clerestory. — The inside columns, shown on ground plan, supporting 
the clerestory, will be of granite, rough cut, and twelve inches square, with 
a skew back on each, with a top bed of IS by 3G inches to receive the 
arches which support the clerestory. 

The clerestory will be divided by buttresses, projecting six inches from 
its face into seven bays, and in each bay there will be a double or triple 
window, with splayed jambs, arches, and sills. 

A corbel table projecting six inches from the face of the wall, of semi- 
circular arches, on plain moulded brackets, will be carried between the but- 
tresses. The coping will be octagonal, 8 by IS inches, with a groove, as 
usual. 

West wing. — The bell tower will be divided into four stories, externally. 

The first story, the door jamb and arch, will have a plain splay and en- 
gaged columns in a rebate. 

Two small windows, with splayed sills, jambs, and arches, will be cut 
for the sides of first story. 

The water table, under the second story, will be splayed on its upper 
bed. 

The second story will have panelled sides, with semicircular heads, 
formed by the buttresses and arches, projecting from six to eight inches 
from the wall. All the corners of the tower, buttresses, and arches, will he 
well and truly cut. In each side of this story, there will be two small 
windows, with splayed sills, jambs, and arches. 

Under the coping of the second story, a corbel course of nine hand- 
somely-moulded corbels or dentils on each side of the tower, will be car-r 
ried. 

The octagonal coping will be well cut. 

The base course and water table of the third story of the tower will be 
well cut. 

Windoics of third storij . — The four windows of the third story will have 
sills seven inches high. 

The jambs will be of the section of a splay and engaged column in a 
rebate, with handsomely-moulded plinths, hases, and foliage caps. 

The tracery will be a trefoil head, well cut, and eight inches thick. 
The arches will be splayed, and an octagonal label resting on two hand- 
some corbels will be carried round the arches. 



89 [ 23 ] 

A corbel course of 44 corbels will be carried around the third story 
under the coping, which will be octagonal. 

The base course and water table of the fourth story will be well cut. 

The windows will have sills eight inches high. 

The jambs of the four windows will be a splay and engaged column in 
a rebate. The muUion will be a column^ all with plinths, caps, and foliage 
bases. 

The arch and tracery will be well cut, and an octagonal label resting on 
two corbels will be carried around the arch of each window. 

The cornice will consist of five mouldings: 

1st. An ovolo or ogee moulding. 

2d. A zigzag or chevron, deeply and well cut. 

3d. A splay. 

4th. A corbel course of semicircular arches, resting on foliage corbels 
and projecting from eight to twelve inches. 

5th. A hook label mould for the coping, 15 inches high, and IS inches 
lower bed, with a groove, <fcc. 

Apsis, or semicircular projectio7i. — The apsis will be divided by eight 
buttresses, projecting eight inches from the face of the wall, into seven 
bays. 

The upper base course or water table will project eight inches. 

A sill course of octagonal form wiU be carried around under the sills 
between the buttresses. 

The sills of the windows will be seven inches high. 

The jambs and arches will be a plain splay, or a rebate. 

In each bay, between the buttresses, there will be a corbelling of two 
semicircular arches, rising from the sides of the buttresses, and supported 
by a handsomely-carved and moulded corbel in the centre. 

A corbel course of handsomely-moulded corbels, or dentils, will be car- 
ried all around under the octagonal coping of the first story. 

An octagonal coping or cornice will be carried all around over the first 
story of the apsis. 

Base course of second story will be a plain band, splayed on upper edge 
to shed water. 

Over this and under the columns a stylobate of cut stone will be carried, 
from eighteen inches to two feet in height, well cut on the upper surface, 
between the column bases, to form the sills of the windows between the 
columns. 

An arcade of columns and arches, haying 14 arched openmgs, will be 
carried round the second story of the apsis. 

The columns will have plinths, bases, and carved capitals, and will be 
detached entirely from the wall behind them. The wall behind the column 
will consist of pilasters, with plain bases and capitals. 

The pilaster will project eight inches from the face of the sash. The 
arches will be of the section directed by architect, and will be cut in the 
best manner. , 

The face work over the arches will be set back three inches from the 

face of the arches, and well cut. 

A corbel table, of semicircular arches, resting on moulded brackets, will 
be carried all around the apse, under the coping, (not dentils, as in plan,) 
and will project from eight to twelve inches from the face of tht wall 
below. 



[ 23 ] 90 

The coping will be octagonal, 12 inches by 24 inches, well cut, and 
grooved to receive roof. 

The Avail behind apse will have a label course run across it, on a level 
of the top of the roof of the apse. 

Circular windoio. — The jamb will be of the section directed by architect, 
and well cut. 

The tracery will be IS inches in thickness, exclusive of the columns on 
the face. 

The quatrefoils and six-foil will be pierced through, and well and finely 
cut. 

The columns will have plinths, bases, and caps, well cut and moulded. 
The moulding on which the columns rest will be octagonal, and well cut, 
and all the remaining work of the window Avill be cut in the best manner. 

Cornice of gable will consist of a splay, with a double billet-mould, a 
band eighteen inches wide, well cut, and an octagonal coping 12 by 24 
inches, grooved to receive the roof covering. 

A handsome finial will be well cut, and for the apex of the gable. 

Buttresses will be cut with base courses, buttress caps with mouldings, 
and arres on the corners, cut in the best manner. 

South fronl of loest iving. — Base courses will be carried across the front, 
of size, &c., hereinbefore specified. 

Two small double windows, with splayed jambs, sills, and arches, 
will be cut for each side of the door-way. 

The porch will project one foot from face of wall; all the arres will be 
well and truly cut. 

The door will have a jamb of the section of a splay and an engaged 
column in a rebate, and will be IS inches in depth, to the front of the 
door, and 24 inches depth in all. 

All the columns of the door will have plinths, bases, and foliage caps. 
The arch will have an octagonal mould, in place of a shaft of column. 
Over the door, the quatrefoil will be well cut and deeply sunk. The co- 
ping will be cut to the form of an octagon^ 8 inches high by 24 inches bed, 
well cut. 

The water table over the basement will be well and truly cut, and hand- 
somely splayed. 

Over the water table, the sill course under the windows will be carried 
from buttress to buttress, and will be well cut to the form of five sides of 
an octagon. ■ 

The sills of the windows will be 12 inches in thickness. 

The jambs of the windows will be cut to the form of a splay and en- 
gaged column in a rebate. 

The centre columns or mullions will be well cut, and all the columns 
will have plinths, bases, and foliage capitals, well cut. 

All the tracery will be 19 inches thick, the arches will be raised, and a 
quatrefoil will be pierced through the sunk panels of the tracery heads. 
There will be three windows in the cast front. 

Circular loiadovjs. — The jambs will be splayed. 

The tracery will consist of columns, with handsome plinths, bases, and 
caps, with trefoil arches between the columns; the spaces on the backs of 
the trefoil heads will be panelled; the thickness of the tracery \\n\\ be eight 
inches. The moulding .under the bases of the columns and the central 
quatrefoil will be well cut. 

A corbel table will be carried up under the cornice of the gables; of serai- 



91 [ 23 ] 

circular arches resting on moulded brackets, and projecting 10 to 12 inches 
from the face of the wall. The coping will be 12 by 24 mches; cut to the 
form of five sides of an octagon. 

A handsome finial will be well cut for the apex of the gable. 

The buttresses will have the corners well and truly cut, with moulded 
caps, finisiied in the best manner. 

Sides of uwst ivittg. — The east side of the west wing will be finished in 
precisely the same manner as the west side, except so far as it is covered 
by the connecting range. 

The base courses will be carried all around. 

There will be six small windows in the basement; with splayed jambs, 
arches, and sills. 

The water talkie will be carried all around over the basement, per direc- 
tions of arcliitect. 

The buttresses projecting eight inches from the face of the walls, and 
connected with arched heads, will be carried up perfectly plumb, true, and 
even, and all the arres of the buttresses and arches will be well and truly 
cut. 

Sill course under the windows will be cut to the form of five sides of an 
octagon. 

The sills will be eight inches in thickness. 

The jambs and arches of the windows will be splayed or rebated. 

A corbel course will be carried all around both sides of the building, of 
large semicircular arches, supported on foliage brackets. The corbelling 
will project from 10 to 12 inches from the face of the wall. 

The coping will be 12 by 24 inches, cut to an octagonal form, with a 
groove to receive roofing material. 

The walls connecting the central rear tower and the main central build- 
ings will be cut with doors, windows, arches, corbel courses, mouldings, 
and battlements, precisely similar to those hereinbefore described j connect- 
ing the central front towers with main central building. 

GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS. 

All the window sills will be splayed. 

All the doors will have sills and steps of the size, rise, and tread, di- 
rected by architect. 

All the door and window sills will be well patent-hammered, and brought 
to a joint not exceeding 3-16 of an inch. All the jambs and arches, with 
the labels over them, will be fine cut and patent-hammered, and no 
spauls will be allovv^ed on their faces. In the jambs and arches of the 
principal doors, the joints shall not exceed 3-16 of an inch. In the 
jambs, arches, <Lc., of the remaining doors, and of all the windows, the 
joints shall not exceed 3-S of an inch. In all the capitals of all the columns 
the foliage will be well relieved and truly cut, and the plinths of the 
columns will be in some cases octagonal, and in others circular and 
square, and well cut. 

All the bands and mouldings will be well and truly cut, or rubbed. 

All the ornamented bands and mouldings will be well relieved, and truly 
cut, or rubbed. 

All the moulded and ornamented corbels will be cut in the best manner. 
The foliage will be well relieved. 



[23] 



92 



And all the battlements, labels, buttress caps, and all the remaining cut 
work, will be executed in the most true and perfect manner. 

All the cut work hereinbefore specified, of every description, will be of 
the form and dimensions and according to the plans furnished by the 
architect. 

Contractors are referred to the following architectural works for the char- 
acter of the different mouldings, capitals, and other ornaments, used in the 
building. 

Doors, wmdoias, mid cloisters. — For capitals, bases, and plinths, see 
MoUer's Denkmahler, part I, plate YI. Door of cathedral of Mnyeuce, 
(A,) plate IX. Details of columns, cathedral of Mayence, (B,) plate XI. 
Door of church of St. Leonard at Frankfort, (C,) plate XII. Door of the 
sacristy of the cathedral of Mayence, (D,) plates XIV, XV, and XVI. 
Details of the cloister of the church of Aschaffenburg, (E.) plate XVII. 
Details of the church of St. Paul at Worms, (F,) plate XVIII. Details of 
the doors of the transept at Frieburg cathedral, (G.) 

Also, Pugin and Le Keux's Normandy, plate V. 

Also, Glossary of Architecture, plate 28; St. Nicholas, Caeu, and St. 
Peter's, Northampton. 

For coi-bel courses. — See Pugin and Le Keux's Normandy, plates 1, 10. 
Than church, plate 1, and Glossary of Architecture, plate 37. 

For ornamented 'mouldings. — See Glossary of Architecture, all on plates 
76, 77, and 78. Plate 79 — cable, intersecting and cable, nail-head, star, 
lozenge and enriched lozenge. Plate 81 — reticulated, diamond frette, and 
embattled frette. Plate 82 — trellis and hollow square. 

The above references are made with a view of presenting to the con- 
tractor the general style for the finish and character of the ornaments. 

As the above specification, with the plans, is intended to cover the en- 
tire completion of the building, in every respect, in the most perfect man- 
ner, no extra claims will be allowed, unless caused by actual alterations in 
the plans. And the contractor will be bound by the sum of $10,000 to 
submit all questions, controversies, and claims to the architect, whose de- 
cision upon the same shall be final and conclusive between the parties. 



iSpecificaiio?i of the carpenter^s and. Joiner^s work for the Smithsonian In- 

stitution. 

TIMBER. 

Basement story. — The floors of the basement of the west wing, and 
west connecting range, will be supported on yellow pine timber, 3 by 12 
inches, set two feet (2 ft.) from centre to centre. 

First story. — All ihe floors of the first story, except those of the chemi- 
cal lecture room, students' working laboratory, front towers, campanile 
tower, octagonal tower, and central rear tower, will be supported on 3 by 
12 inch timbers, of the best white pine, set sixteen inches (16 in.) from 
centre to centre. The girders into which these will be framed will be 
twelve inches (12 by 12 in.) square. The trimmers and trimmer beams 
will be 5 by 12 indies, and one trimmer will be placed at every hot-air 
flue, or one at every pier in the wall of the building. There will be one 



93 [ 23 ] 

longitudinal trimmer in the west v/ing, one in the west connecting range, 
four in the Ubrary, three in the central hall, three in the lecture-room, 
and two in the east connecting range. 

Second atory. — The timbers in the floor of the second story will be 3 
by 12 inches, set 16 inches from centre to centre. The girders will be 
twelve inches square (12 by 12 in.) running longitudinally through the 
museum. The trimmers and trimmer beams will be 5 by 12 inches. 
The timbers will be of the best white pine. 

Toivers, 6^c. — All the floors of the towers will be of the best white pine 
timber, 3 by 12 inches square. There will be seven floors in the higher 
central front tower; five floors in the lower front tower; four floors in the 
central rear tower ; seven floors in the octagonal tower ; seven floors in 
the campanile tower ; five floors in the tower of the west wing; two floors 
in the porch of the chemical lecture-room. 

The floor-beams of the galleries of the museum, library, and lecture- 
rooms will be 3 by 10 inches, of the best white piue timber, set 16 inches 
from centre. The girders of the gallery fronts, 8 by 12 inches. 

All these timbers and girders will be firmly anchored to the walls. 

All the floors in the building will have one row of herring-bone bridg- 
ing of joists, 3 by 4 inches, for every 12 feet of length of beam. 

Columns. — There will be 56 columns, six inches square and twenty- 
two (22) feet high in the library, set per plan. 

In the great lecture room there will be 10 columns of iron, twenty- 
seven (27) feet high. (Plan No, 1.) 

In the museum there will be 120 columns, six inches square, and 
27 feet high. 

Roofs. — The roof of the central building to be framed with a tie beam, 
one king post, two queen-posts, and four strutts. 

The timbers in all of the frames will be of the following forms, dimen- 
sions, and materials : 

'J'ie-beam, 6 by 15 inches, of the best white pine. 

Two rafters, 6 by 12 inches, of best white pine. 

Kingpost, 6 by 8 inches, of best white oak. 

Two queen-posts, 6 by 6 inches, of best white oak. 

Four strutts, 6 by 8 inches, of best while pine. 

The roof plate will be 3 by 12 inches, of best white pine. 

The purhues will be of the best white pine timber, 3 by 10 inches, set 
three feet ^3 ft.) from centre to centre, quartered into the rafters two in- 
ches, (2 in.) and kept from slipping by brackets of white pine eighteen 
inches (IS in.) in length, firmly fastened to the rafters. 

The roof of the east lecture room will be flamed in the same manner 
as that of the central building, of timbers of the same size and material. 
Its span will be forty-nine feet, (49 ft.) and the number of frames seven 

(7.) ^ . , 

The roof of the east connecting range will also be framed in the same 
manner, of timbers of the same size and material. The number of frames 
in it will be six (6.) 

The roof of the western wing will be framed in the same manner, and 
with timber of the same description, but of the following dimensions : tie- 
beam, 4 by 12 inches ; rafters, 4 by 10 inches ; king-post, 4 by 8 niches ; 
queen posts, 4 by 6 inches; strutts, 4 by 6 inches; purlines, 3 by lU 



I 



[23] 



94 



inches ; set three feet (3 ft.) from centre to centre. The number of frames 
in the west wing will be six (6.) 

The roofs of the side aisles of the gallerj' of art, and of the cloisters in 
front of the two connecting ranges, will be framed according to section. 
(Plan E, No. 3.) 

Tie-beam 3 by S inches, rafter 3 by 12 inches, striitt 3 by 6 inches, 
upright 3 by G inches, all of the best wliite pine timber. 

There will be six frames in each side aisle and cloister. 

The roof of the clerestory of the gallery of art will be framed of the fol- 
lowing dimensions and materials : 

Tie-beam, 5 by 12 inches, best white pine. 

Kmg-post, 5 by 7 inches, best white oak. 

Two rafters, 5 by 10 inches, best white pine. 

Two strutts, 5 by 6 inches, best white pine. 

The purlines will be 6 by 10 inches, set three feet (3 ft.) from centre to 
centre. The number of frames w^ill be six (6.) 

The roofs of the square towers will be framed in the form of a flat hip- 
ped roof, with diagonal and square tie beams, king post, strutts, rafters, 
and purlines, of the same materials as above, and of dimensions suited for 
their respective spans. 

The roof of the octagonal tower will be framed in a similar manner. 

The roofs of the other towers will also be framed with diagonal and 
square tie beams, and Jiip-rafters, curved to the shape of roofs, and stongly 
braced with diagonal braces, strutts, and upriglits tiiroughout. 

All the remaining roofs, if any. including those of the porches, &c., are 
to be framed in such manner, and of such dimensions, timber, and work- 
manship, as shall be directed by the architect. 

Deafening. — All the floors except those of the chemical lecture-room and 
students' working laboratory, and other fire-proof rooms, will be prepared 
for deafening, with strips and plank, in the best manner. 

FLOORS. 

Basement. — The floors of the basement of the west wing, and west cen- 
tral range, will be of the best Georgia ^-ellow pine narrow plank, not 
more than five inches (5 in.) wide, laid in courses, and blind-nailed. 

First story. — The floors of the library, lecture-room, cloisters, apparatus 
room, campanile tower, and in general all the floors of this story, except 
such as are directed to be tiled or flagged, and including the cloisters and 
side slides, which will be planked under the flagging, will be of the best 
clear Georgia yellow pine, narrow, 1\ inch plank, laid in courses not more 
than five inches (5 in.) wide, and blind-nailed. 

Second story . — The floor of the museum will be laid, first, of 1^- inch nar- 
row white pine plank, over which will be laid a mosaic or tesselated floor 
of black walnut, yellow pine, white oak, maple, and other American woods, 
arranged in such patterns as may be directed by the architect. The 
upper floor will be blind nailed to the lower one, and all its joints will be 
glued up strongly in the best manner. 

Galleries, Sfc. — The floors of all the galleries of both stories, and all the 
floors of all the towers, will be of the best Georgia yellow pine, not more 
than five iu'^hes (5 in.) in width, blind-nailed, and laid in courses. 

All the '.ibove floors will be of thoroughly seasoned 1 ^ inch plank, planed, 



95 [ 23 ] 

tongued and grooved, and laid in courses in the best manner. All the 
butts and joints will be planed true, after the floors are laid. The plank 
must be free from sap, shakes, and black or unsound knots; and when 
clear plank is specified, it must be free from all blemishes. 

Roof. — All the roofs of every part of the building and towers to be 
sheathed with 1^ inch merchantable white pine plank, mill-worked, and 
strongly nailed to the purlincs. The sheadiing to be free from sap, shakes, 
sun-cracks, and black or rotton knots. 

Partitions and centres. — There will be a stud partition between the 
■Regents' room and the rear staircase, which Avill be framed up of 3 by 4 
inch joists, well bridged and trussed, and set twelve inches (12 in.) from 
centre to centre. 

All the centres for the mason work, and stone-setting, to be furnished 
by the carpenter. 

Furring. — All the outside walls, which are not lined with brick, to be 
furred with best 2 by 3 inch furring, set twelve inches (12 in.) from cen- 
tre to centre. 

Ceilings. — All the flat ceilings to be cross-furred with 1^ by 2 inch stuflf, 
set twelve inches (12 in.) from centre to centre. 

Groined ceilings. — The ceilings of the west wing, east wing, west con- 
necting range and its cloister, nuiseum, rooms in the front towers, and 
tl^e room in the campanile on the museum floor, of the principal porch, 
the Regents' room, the staircases, vestibules, central hall, and library, 
will be groined and ribbed, per plans, sections, and directions of the architect. 

These ceilings will be groined as follows: 

West wing. — Divided by cohnnns and arches into three (3) aisles, each 
of seven (7) sections of groining, and composed of an artificial clerestory, 
under the roof, lighted by sky-lights, and two side aisles. The apsis will 
also be handsomely groined. 

West connecting range. — The gallery of art wiU also be divided into a 
central nave with a clerestory, and two side aisles, each containing seven 
sections of groining or twenty-one (21) in all. The cloister will also have 
seven (7) sections of groining. 

The library will be divided by pillars and arches into five aisles, each 
containing seven sections of groinmg, not including the small groins be- 
tween the pillars, which will be groined per plan and directions of archi- 
tect. 

The central hall will be in one aisle, containing sections of groining, per 
plans. 

The staircases will be groined per plans and directions of the architect. 

The east wing will be in a single aisle, handsomely groined. 

The Regents' room will have one section of groining, and a groined 
ceiling to the bay window. 

The museum will be divided by pillars into five (5) aisles longitudinally, 

with a transept or transverse aisle, at the centre, groined in a single aisle. 

Each of the longitudinal aisles will contain fifteen sections of gronung. 

The transverse aisle will contain two sections of groining, in front of the 

ongitudinal aisles. 

The rooms in the front towers will have each groined ceilings. 

The front and rear staircase halls will be groined per directions of 
architect. . 

The ceiling of the rear staircase hall will be groined per plans and di- 



[23] 



96 



rections of architect, as will also be the rear vestibule of the museum under 
the gallery. 

The ceiling of the porch and vestibule, or stair hall of chemical lecture- 
room, one ceiling of campanile tower, and one ceiling on the first floor of 
the octagonal tower, will also be groined per directions of architect. 

The ceiling of the principal porch will be groined per directions oi 
architect. 

The east cloister will be furred for a flat ceiling, with square panels and 
heavy ribbing. 

The ceiling of the great lecture-room will also be panelled with heavy 
ribbing. 

All the remaining ceilings in the building, and of the towers to the top, 
will be cross-furred. 

Bracketing. — At the intersection of all the groins, as also when they 
meet the walls, and on all the rib lines shown on the ground plans, brack- 
ets for ribs will be formed in the best manner, to receive four (4) nails to 
each lath. Cornices will be bracketed out whenever required. All the 
pillars will be bracketed, as well as the half and quarter pillars, on the 
walls. Brackets for pillars will be set on the outside of all the wooden* 
door jambs, and at all tlie window jambs. There will be a boss or half- 
boss at every intersection of the ribs, all which bosses will be strongly 
bracketed, and in general all the bracketing necessaiy to complete tlie 
building will be furnished and put up. 

All the above furring will be made of three thicknesses of 1^ inch plank, 
strongly nailed and spiked together, and strongly hung from the floor and 
roof beams, by two inch plank. 

All the brackets will be secured in the strongest manner. 

Seats, ^'c. — The lecture-rooms and their galleries will have handsome 
settees of black walnut, with fronts carved to the shape of old stalls to 
each. The settees to have neat cap moulds and backs, and to be finished 
and carved in the best manner. 

All the above black walnut will be oiled with the best raw linseed oil, 
three coats, well rubbed in. 

Platforms and stage. — At one end of the great lecture-room a platform 
will be raised fi'om 4 to 8 feet fi'om the floor, for the length of one of the 
bays, to form a stage, and will have in front of it, and at the same level, 
an octagonal projection for the lecturer. The front of the platform will be 
wainscoated with narrow black walnut, 1^ inch plank, tongued and grooved, 
and not more than four inches in width. The plank will be set on end, 
and will be neatly capped. On the projection a handsome carved table of 
black walnut will be provided, and a seat for the lecturer. Over the stage 
a canopy will be formed of joists, well framed, hanging down five feet from 
the ccihng, to conceal the rollers on which the illustrations are to be placed, 
and on each side of the stage a partition of joists (3 by 4 inches) will be 
carried out from the walls as far as the line of the front of the gallery, and 
terminating at the last pillar of the gallery. Thirty rollers of wood, six 
inches (6 inches) in diameter, and twenty-five feet (25 feet) long, will be 
hung behind the canopy. The rollers will have iron axles at their ends, 
working in iron eyes; and each roller will have a twelve inch sheave at one 
end for an endless cord to pass over, to work them. The ends of these roll- 
ers will also be concealed by a canopy of 3 by 4 inch joist hanging down 
five feet (5 feet) from the ceilings, and well framed. 



I 



L 



97 [ 23 ] 

Chemical lecture-room furnitur p. — A platform two feet (2 feet) higli will 
be made, of strong joists and plank, raised from the front of the proiessor's 
frorit desk (A) to the rear of the room. On this the desk (A) will be placed, 
which will be of the dimensions shown on the plans, and will have drawers 
on all sides. The other desk (B) will be made in the same manner and 
similarly furnished. 

Behind the front lecturer's desk a partition will be carried across, having 
sliding doors handsomely panelled, 3 inches in thickness, with proper fix- 
tures, per plans. In the side of tihs partition, facing the lecture-room, there 
will be closets, with shelves, three feet in depth, and having sash doors, 
filled with good American s:lass. 

The laboratory behind the lecture-room will be divided into two stories, 
connected by two flights of handsome staircases. 

The first story will be divided into three apartments; the centre one of 
which will contain the working table (B) hereinbei'<)re described, and will 
be shelved all around, except where occupied by doors and windows, to a 
height of eight feet. These shelves will be enclosed above a line three 
feet high, by panelled doors hung in boxes with weights, cords, and pulleys, 
like sash, and below that line the closets will be projected to form a table 
15 inches wide, below which there will be a range of drawers about 6 
inches deep, and below the drawers a range of closets with panelled doors. 
On the room to the right hand there will be two tables (A) two feet wide 
and eight feet long, made of three thicknesses of narrow 1^ inch white 
pine plank, not more than three inches in width, planed on both sides, 
tongued and grooved, and put together diagonally with glue and screws, 
and having strongs legs. The remaining part of the walls will be shelved 
off as in the preceding apartment. 

On the room to the left there will be a working table (G) three teet wide 
and seven feet long, made similarly to those above described. The parti- 
tion wall next centre will be shelved off as in the other apartments. 
Racks of shelves, with holes bored in them, will be placed on each side of 
the sink (F.) In the second story of the laboratory, which will also be 
divided into three apartments, the centre one will contain in the centre a 
series of shelves, resting like steps from the partition wall to the rear, to a 
height of seven feet. The v/alls will be shelved with shelves one toot in 
width, enclosed in sash doors hung with weights, cords and pulleys, like 
window sash, and, with the two remaining rooms, will be lighted with 
skylights of best double-thickness American glass in the roof, and interior 
skylights in the ceiling, with fancy sash, filled with best English crown 
glass, (A.) 

In the east connecting range, which will be also divided internally into 
two (2)' stories above the basement, the first story will contain a students' 
working laboratory, in the centre of which will be two strong tables in the 
form of the letter T, the tops of which will be of soapstone flags. These 
tables will be furnished with drawers, shelves and closets. 

All around the sides of the rooms not otherwise occupied, there will be 
tables two feet nine inches wide with wooded tops, and drawers and closets; 
below and above these tables shelved closets, with sash doors hung 
with weights, cords and puUevs, will be carried to a height of eight feet 
from the floor. Stairs three feet wide, and well finished, will connect this 
laboratory with the second story. The second story above the laboratory 
will be divided into three apartments, one 15 by 14, as a private room for 
7 



[23] 

the lecturer; and the other two 12 by 25, one of which will have strong 
tables all around, and the other fitted with closetS; drawers and shelves, 
with sash doors, as above, all around. 

Sash and glass. — All the windows of every kind, size, and description, 
in every part of the building and towers, both interior and exterior, v/ill be 
fitted with square sash, set diamond-wise, and filled with the best Eng- 
lish crown glass. The windows will be hung in frames with cords, 
weights, and pulleys, and will be finished in every respect in the best pos- 
sible manner. 

Inside tvindows^ balustrades, gallery fronts, carving, ^c. — There will 
be two circular windows in the central hail (per plan of library) carved 
of the best white pine ; also one triple or two double windows between 
the Regents' room and the rear stairway, and 12 triple windows in the 
clerestory of the west wing. These will be carved in the best manner, 
of the best white pine, according to the directions of the architect. Ail 
these windows will have frames and sash, and be filled with glass, as 
described above. Their mullions will be of wood, painted four (4) coats, 
to resemble the walls of the interior, and sanded. 

There will be open balustrades three feet six inches (3 feet 6 inches) 
high, of black walnut, or of best white pine pamted and grained, as rmxy 
be directed, carried all around the front of the galleries of the museum 
and library, as well at the ends as at the sides, per plans. The balus- 
ters will be circular pillars with turned bases and carved capitals, sup- 
porting carved trefoil arches, over which a handsome moulded top rail 
will be carried, per plans. 

The gallery front of the great lecture-room will consist of pillars with 
carved bases and capitals, as above, supporting semicircular carved arches, 
over and under which will bea large hook label mould well and deeply sunk, 
all of black walnut. At the distance of two inches (2 inches) behmd this 
arcade, a wainscoating of one inch black walnut boards, not more than 
four inches wide, and set vertically, will be carried around to form the 
front of the gallery, and from the top ot the label to this wainscoat a top 
board of black walnut 1^ inch thick will be carried, to form a book board 
lor the gallery front. 

'^I'he gallery front will be four feet six inches (4 feet 6 inches) in height. 

The gallery fronts of the chemical lecture-room will be framed of strong 
3 by 10 inch timber, which will be wainscoated on both sides four feet , 
(4 ieet) high, with f-inch black walnut boards, not more than four inches 
in width, capped on the outside with a handsome label, and having a 
label mould at bottom. And in general, all the work necessary to make 
the gallery fronts complete, is to be performed. 

/Stairs. — The principal front stairs will consist of two double flights, 
one on each side of the entrance hall. The steps will be five feet three 
nehes (5 feet 3 inches) in width, and the well will be from eighteen inches 
to two feet (18 inches to 2 feet) in width. There will be a 7 inch square 
carved newel to each flight, with the sides handsomely panelled. 

The balusters will be octagonal pillars, with turned bases and caps, 
having a semicircular arch with a irefoil head between them, and will be 
surmounted by a top rail, 4 by 6 inches, handsomely moulded. The 
stairs will have handsome coves and brackets hanging down below the 
underside of the steps. The steps will be supported by wrought-iron 
frames, properly put together to insure stability. The risers will be of 



99 ]_ 23 ] 

the best white pine, and the treads of the best Georgia yellow pine. And 
the underside of the stairs will be furred ready for plasterino-. 

The stairs will rise from the ground floor to a point four feet (4 feet) 
below the under side of the roof timbers, say a height of forty-three feet 
(43 feet) or thereabout. At this height the upper platforms or landings 
will be placed. At one end of each of these a door will be placed which 
\vill communicate with the front towers. A spiral staircase will be car- 
ried up from the level of these upper platforms to the top of the higher of 
the two front towers. This staircase will be six feet (6 feet) in diameter," 
and will be partitioned off in one corner of the tower. It will have 
proper platf'rms and doors of communication to the different stories of the 
tower, of which there will be four (4) above the roof of the main build- 
ing. This staircase will open on the roof of the tower, which will be 
nearly flat, and is to be used as a place of observation. 

A similar staircase will extend from the same level upwards to the floor 
of the upper story of the lower central front tower. 

Both of the above stairs will have treads and risers of yellow pine, with 
handsome coves and nosings. They will be ceiled in with -|-inch 
white pine plank, will have windows in the partitions for light, and will 
have neat 3 by 4-inch black walnut hand rails, supported by iron elbows. 

The principal rear stairs, about twenty-three feet (23 feet) in height, of 
rise and of the form and dimensions shown on plans, wdl be finished in 
a manner exactly similar, and of the same materials and workmanship, 
as the principal front stairs described above. 

Staircases in cam'panile toroer. — The interior of the campanile tower 
will be eleven feet (11 feet) square, and will be occupied, at the level of 
the museum floor, with a staircase having steps four feet (4 feet) in width, 
and a well three feet square in the centre. This staircase will lead from 
the ground floor of the museum to its gallery, and have steps, risers, bal- 
usters, newels, coves, brackets, &c., of a similar character to the principal 
stairs ijtbove specified. Above the level of the gallery floor a small stair- 
way two feet six inches in width will be carried m flights, per direction 
of architect, to the upper story of the tower. The stairway will be par- 
titioned off from the tower by joists, and in the partition doors will be 
framed and set to communicate with the two upper stories of the tower. 

Siaircdses of octagonal toivr. — A winding staircase with steps three feet 
in width, having a clustered column in the centre, will lead in this 
tower from the floor of the library to the gallery. The steps will be sup- 
ported against the wall and the central column by iron stringers, and the 
hand-rail wdl be of black walnut. The sides of the tower will be wains- 
coated up to the under side of the hand-rail, and the central column will 
be formed of clusters of circubir columns of wood. The wain.^coat and 
columns will be painted four coats, and column sanded to represent 
marble. A hand-rail of black walnut, supported on handsome iron elbows, 
will be carried around the column. The ceiling of the octagonal tower 
over this staircase will be groined. A staircase, similar in all respects, 
and similarly furnished, will lead from the floor to the gallery of the mu- 
seum. Above this line a smaller staircase will be earned to the summit 
of the tower. All the treads and risers in these stairways will be of the 
best yellow pine. 

On each side of the rear entrance to the museum a flight of steps 
three feet wide will lead from the ground floor to the gallery, with balus- 



[23] 



100 



ters, rails, arches, trefoils, newels, coves, and brackets, similar to those of 
the principal front stairs. 

The stairs to the chemical lecture-room and its gallery will be placed in 
the porch on the eastern end of the chemical lecture-room wing. They 
will consist of two flights: one in the porch, leading level of the porch floor 
to that of the chemical lectnre-room floor, and one in a double flight, land- 
ing from the latter level to the gallery. The latter will have steps, coves, 
newels, balusters, arches, (fcc, similar in character to those of the two 
principal staircases, but of smaller horizontal dimensions. Beneath the 
latter stairs a flight of steps will lead from the level of the chemical lecture 
room floor to the floor of the basement beneath it. These will have risers 
and treads of yellow pine, and plain octagonal newels five inches (5 inches) 
in diameter. The balusters will be octagonal, two inches (2 inches) in 
diameter, Avith S by 4 inch rails, all of black walnut. 

The stairs in tower of west wing will be square, filling the whole of the 
tower, and will be carried first to a level with the floor of the first story, 
and then to the top of the side aisle arches, with handsome octagonal bal- 
usters two inches (2 inches) in diameter, with semicircular arches between 
those of the same finish, etc., as the two principal staircases, with a square 
newel handsomely carved, and a 3 by 4 inch moulded hand-rail, all of 
black walnut. The sides of the tower will be wainscoated to the height 
of the hand-rail. • 

The private s/airs to Regents'' room, lecturers' room, and muniment 
room, will be in the small octagonal tower attached to the central rear 
tower. They will be carried from the level of the surfece of the ground, 
to the third story of the tower, or muniment room, a height of about sev- 
enty feet, (70 feet.) They will wind around a column from 8 to 12 inches 
in diameter, and will have treads and risers of yellow pine, and a hand- 
some moulded hand-rail, 3 by 4 inches, of black walnut, secured to the 
walls by iron elbows. The walls will be wainscoated, on end, with black 
walnut, as specified in former instances, to the height of hand-rail. 

Laboratory stairs. — Private stairs, with steps three feet in width, having 
octagonal balusters two inches (2 inches) in diameter, and 3 by 4 inch 
moulded rail, of black walnut, will be carried from the ground floor of 
laboratory, at the end of the chemical lecture-room, to the second floor. 
A flight of stairs, also three feet (3 feet) in width, will be carried from the 
first story of the east connecting range to the second story of the same, a 
height of about thirteen feet. They will be partitioned oft' with 3 by 4 
inch joists, and will have a 3 by 4 inch handrail fastened to the wall, 
both with iron elbows. Under these stairs a flight of similar width, and 
similarly finished, will be carried from the first floor to the cellar. 

^'tairs in library and museum. — Twelve small flights of circular stairs 
will be carried, at the places shown in the plans, from the ground floor and 
to the galleries of the library and museum. They will be supported on 
iron, and there will be a trap-door above each of them in the gallery floor, 
hung on best hinges, which will serve for the purpose of communicating 
with the galleries. 

Elevators. — In each of the smaller towers at the corners of the main 
building, elevators, having each three (3) shelves, set three (3) feet apart, 
and framed strongly together, will be furnished. They will be provided 
with sheaves, cords, and will have cast iron counterpoises running in 
bojces on the four sides of the tower. The elevators will be worked by a 



101 [23] 

crank, and will be used for raising books and otber heavy weights from 
the bottom to the top of the building. 

Doors and their furniture. — All the doors of every part of the building 
will have semicircular heads, and handsome trimmings and casings, of 
the same style as the building. 

The central front and rear doors will be made of four thicknesses, of 1^ 
inch white pine plank, laid together diagonally. The outside plank will 
be of the best clear white pine, and the two inner layers of the best mer- 
chantable white pine, all perfectly seasoned. The plank will be narrow, 
and all of the even width of six inches, (6 inches.) The outer layers will 
he set diagonally, and all beaded and cross-beaded. 

All the plank will be planed, tongued, and grooved, and will be strongly 
screwed or rivetted together^ with white lead in the joints, and painted on 
all sides. 

The hinges, and key plates, and knob plates, will be of heavy wrought 
iron scroll work, bronzed in the best manner; and the doors will be grained 
white oak, and will be varnished four coats. 

Furniture of apparatus rooms. — The room in the east connecting range 
behind the east lecture-room, and the room on the same floor in the cam- 
panile tower, will be shelved all around, with closets, having panelled 
doors below, and sash doors above, glazed with good single-thickness 
American glass. 

Furniture of library. — See plans and sections for the arrangement of 
the cases. The cases will have sash doors, and will be shelved per direc- 
tion of architect. The doors will be glazed with good single-thickness 
American glass, in diamonds, or squares set diamond- wise, or will be filled 
with wire gauze. All the pillars of the cases will be handsomely turned, 
the doors and sashes of the best workmanship. All the mouldings in the 
arches will be well worked, and all the capitals and bases neatly turned, 
and ornamented with stucco ornaments, or well carved. 

On the ground floor of the library, at every alcove formed by the pillars 
and cases, a sliding door, handsomely panelled and moulded, 2| inches 
thick, filled with ground glass and sash in the panels, will be made to 
slide between the longitudinal bookcases, so as to shut off the alcove 
completely from the central aisle. These doors will be fourteen (14) in 
number, with handsome trimmings, and will each be furnished with an 
astragal lock, astragal sheaves and sheave way, of the best description. 

The spaces between the bookcases of the galleries and the ceflmgs of 
the aisles will be furred up for plastering. 

Four tables, each fifteen feet (15 feet) long and five (5 feet) broad, wfll 
be made of black walnut, to be set along the centre aisle of the library. 
These tables will have handsome carved legs, and be covered with green 

broadcloth. , r i i 

A small desk of black walnut will be furnished for each of die alcoves. 
The librarian's room, adjoining the library, will have handsome book- 
cases finished in a style similar to those of the library, with glass doors, 
&c. All the furniture of the apparatus rooms and library, except wtiere 
otherwise specified, will be of the best clear, thoroughly seasoned white 
pine, painted three coats with the best oil paint, grained, if so directea, to 
resemble oak, and varnished four coats. 

Museum fuTniture.~l^\\^ museum furniture will be arranged per plans 
and directions of the architect. All the cases will be of the designs shown 



[23] 



102 



on the plans, and will be made of the best thoroughly seasoned clear white 
pine, handsomely carved, turned, and moulded, with caps and bases simi- 
lar to those of library, and neat mouldings on the arches. The sashes will 
be filled with the best French cylinder glass. The spaces between the 
tops of the gallery cases and the ceilings of the side aisles of the gal- 
leries will also be furred up for plastering. The cases will vary in width 
from four to five feet, (4 to 5 ieet.) There will be two rows of cases 
running longitudinally, in the larger spaces between the columns, the 
whole length of the room below the galleries, and one case on each side 
of each of the alcoves, both of the ground floor and galleries. At both 
ends of the room, cases three feet (3 feet) wide will be carried up to the 
under side of the end galleries, as per plan. 

All the above cases will be ornamented, carved, and finished per plan 
and directions of architect, painted three coats best white lead in oil, 
grained and varnished three coats. 

The transverse aisle of museum will have cases of similar make and 
finish carried aronnd the sides and front, except at the stair entrances. 
These cases will be eighteen inches (18 inches) in depth. 

The two rooms in the front tower will be covered all around with cases 
nine feet (9 feet) high, of similar design, make, and finish, as will also the 
room in the companile tower. 

The room over the rear stairs will have cases nine feet (9 feet) high, of 
similar design, make, and finish with the above. 

The room over the Secretary's room, in the rear central tower, will be 
fitted with plain cases, shelved, and with doors glazed with good single 
thickness American glass all around. 

All the remaining outside doors will be made in a similar manner, and 
of similar material to the above, of three thicknesses of one and a hah" 
inch plank. 

All the inside doors of the basement will have neat and plain casings, 
with semicircular heads of white pine, painted and grained, white oak or 
any other wood that may be directed, and varnished four coats. The 
doors will be made of black walnut or white pine one a half inch plank, 
put together diagonally in two thicknesses, grained to imitate such wood 
as may be directed, and varnished three coats. 

All the doors of the towers above the roof line will have handsome 
jambs and arches of white pine, grained and varnished as above. 

The doors will be of two thicknesses, of one and a half inch black wal- 
nut, or butternut, or white pine, painted, grained, and varnished as above. 

The principal doors of the library, museum, galleries of art. Regents' 
room, and lecture rooms, will have jambs and arches of the section of a 
double rebate, with an engaged column or octagonal mould each. The 
columns will have plinths, bases, and caps, well trimmed and handsomely 
carved. 

The doors will be made of three thicknesses of one and a quarter inch 
plank, butternut, or black walnut, or white pine, grained in the best man- 
ner, and varnished four coats, with bronze scroll hinges, key, and knob 
plates, &c. 

All the smaller doors of the above rooms, and of the remainder of the 
building, will be made of three thicknesses of three and a quarter inch 
plank, of the same description of materials and workmanship as the above, 



103 [ 23 ] 

and with similar hinges, &c. The jambs and arches to be of similar de- 
scription and workmanship to those of the principal doors. 

All the knobs of all the above doors to be of bronze. The locks to be 
of the best manufacture, and largest size, suitable to the dimensions of 
the doors. All the outside doors and principal room doors to have strong 
bolts. 

The sliding doors in the library alcoves to be furnished with sheaves, 
sheave-ways, astragals, and astragal locks, of the best description. 

And in general all the doors for the whole building to be finished as 
above described, in the best and most workmanlike manner, and in 
all respects in accordance with the directions and plans of the architect. 

Roojii/ff, i^T. — All the roofs, except those of the central front towers, 
campanile towers of the main building and west wing, and smaller octa- 
gonal and square towers of the central building, will be tinned with best 
single-cross tin, soldered together in the best manner, painted two coats, 
and warranted tight for five years. All the gutters of every part of the 
building, and the roof of the larger central front tower, will be of the best 
double-cross tin, and painted two coats. All the leaders, which will be 
put in in sufficient numbers to carry off the water to the cisterns in the 
roofs, and to the ground, will be o( best double-cross tin, varying from 
four to sis inches in diameter, and made square or octagonal. If so di- 
rected, they will be painted three coats, and sanded in the second coat, 
the third coat being coursed to resemble stone; and they will be put in of 
such sizes and in such number and situations as the architect shall di- 
rect. 

All the remaining roofs (i. e. of the towers, &c.,) above excepted, will 
be made of the best Welsh slate of large size, and laid in the best man- 
ner, according to the directions of the architect. 

Cisterns.— In each of the roofs of the two connecting ranges a cistern 
of 10 feet square, and four feet six inches deep, which will receive the 
water of the main building, will be made of best three-inch narrow 
yellow pine plank, framed up with best 6 by 6 inch joist, like a mill 
race, and lined with best sheet lead, weighing five pounds to the square 
foot. These will be fed by a leader from the roofs of the main building, 
and will have an overflow or waste weir communicating with another 
leader, v/hich will carry off the surplus water to the ground. 

In the spaces between the central front and central rear towers and the 
main building, two cisterns, 6 by 12 feet, and four feet six inches deep, 
of similar materials and workmanship to the above, will be placed. These 
will be fed by the water from the towers of the front and rear. 

The roofs where all of the above cisterns are placed will be strength- 
ened to bear their weight, by additional rafters, tie-beams, king posts, 

and strutts. , ., ^ 

Water closels.— There will be two water closets, one on eaclv side oi 
the rear staircase, between the Regents' room and museum, on the second 
floor, which will, be furnished with cisterns, ball cocks, traps, cranks 
basins, cocks, &c., of the best description, with brass farmture, and will 
be finished complete in every respect. They will be fed by one and a 
half inch extra strong lead pipe, from the cisterns above described, i ne 
waste-pipe will be five inches in diameter, of best sheet lead five pounds 
to the square foot, which will be carried to a sess-pool on the outside ol 
the tower. 



[23] 



104 



There will also be one water closet in the thickness of the wails of the 
large front central tower, one in the campanile tower, or near it, one in the 
basement of the chemical wing, and one in the west connecting range. All 
of the above to be completely finished in the best mannef, with all fixtures 
necessary to render them complete, fed from the cisterns in the roofs, and 
having waste pipes of five inches diameter, as above, connimnicating with 
sess-pools on the outside of the building. 

Bases of best clear white pine, painted ^.hree coats, grained in the best 
manner to imitate such wood as may be directed, or of black walnut or 
butternut, varnished in all cases four coats, will be carried around the 
rooms, halls, galleries, &c., of heights varying from four to fifteen inches, 
and they will be all handsomely moulded, and worked in the best man- 
ner, according to the directions of the architect. 

Mantel. — A large mantelpiece of very handsome design, as may be 
directed by architect, will be carved from best black walnut, for the Sec- 
retary's room. The whole mantel, with its columns, frieze, and shelf, 
and the ornaments on it, shall be filled with carved Norman mouldings, 
deeply sunk, and of best description. 

Finish of Regevts^ room, and hay vmnJow connected with if. — All the 
walls of the above will be wainscoated with black walnut or butternut, 
as may be directed by architect, handsomely panelled, and carved all 
around with pateras, quatrefoils, and capped with a heavily-carved mould 
corbel course, surmounted by a carved cable-mould. 
. In the side bays of the triple arch, between tlie room and the bay win- 
dow, seats of black walnut, or butternut, handsomely carved, will be 
formed. 

All the jambs and arches of the triple-window arch will be moulded 
and carved per plans and directions of architect. 

Eighteen heavily-carved arm-chairs, and one heavily-carved table, in 
the IN'orman style, will be carved for the Regents' room, from best black 
walnut, varnished four coats, and polished. The whole to be carved ac- 
cording to the designs and directions of the architect. 

iS/ci/(i!i//.ts. — There will be six skylights, five feet square, in the roof 
to the chemical laboratory ; two skylights, five feet square, in the central 
front stair hall; two of same dimensions to rear stair hall; and twelve 
skylights, five feet square, to the west wing; all filled with good double 
thickness American glass, in 2-inch sash. And under these, in all the 
ceilings of the above rooms, will be interim skylights, filled with best 
single thickness American glass in handsome fancy sash. 

Paintinfj[. — All the wood work, of every description, including the 
shelves of the cases, and in general all the wood work not otherwise 
specified, to be painted three coats of best white lead and boiled oil. 

All the doors and their jambs to be varnished four coats. 

All the wood of every description to be perfectly seasoned, and to be 
free from sap, shakes, black or rotten knots, and all imperfections that 
might endanger its strength or durability. 

All the workmanship, of every kind, to be performed in the best and 
most perfect manner. 

I'he whole of the above carpenter work, of every description, and all 
the work connected with it, to be performed according to the plans and 
directions of the architect. 

As it is intended that the above specifications and the plans will cover 



105 [ 23 ] 

the whole and perfect completion of the huilding, and all of its appurte- 
nances, no claim for extra work will be allowed unless caused by actual 
alterations of the plans. And the parties to the contract will be bound to 
submit to the decision of the architect of the building, in the sum of ten 
thousand dollars. 

JAMES RENWICK, Jr., 

Architect and Civil Engineer. 

Mr. Hough offered the following resolution, which was adopted : 

Resoli)ed, That in locating the building for the Smithsonian Institution, 
the centre of the principal building, exclusive of projections, be placed 
upon the centre of the lot or site of said institution from north to south, 
and upon the centre of Tenth street. 

Mr. Hough, in offering the above resolution, stated, that as he was 
compelled, on Monday next, to leave the city, he desired to say, that if 
this resolution should be reconsidered, so as to place the building centrally 
between 7th and 12th streets, he would make no objection. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

SIXTEENTH MEETING— March 24, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

The chairman submitted from Mr. Renwick, architect of the institution, 
the following 

Report to the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Gentlemen: In compliance with your resolution of Friday, the 19th 
ultimo, by which, in company with Dr. Owen, I was directed to examine 
and report upon the quarries of freestone on the farm of Mr. Peter, at Sen- 
eca creek and B\ill run, and those on the adjacent lands, with a view of 
ascertaining their capability of affording a sufficient quantity of building- 
material of good quality, and of color suitable for the purposes of the insti- 
tution, I beg leave to state that we proceeded on Saturday morning to the lo- 
calities of the quarries of freestone occupying the whole eastern bank of the 
Potomac, from the mouth of the Seneca creek to a point distant about one 
mile north of it, where our examination terminated. We also found the 
stone extending up all the valleys of the smaller streams, as far as we ex- 
amined them. 

The quality of the stone varies from that which is highly argillaceous, 
and easily decomposed, to that which is silicious, and well calculated to 
stand the weather and the attacks of frost. 

It also varies in color and texture; some of the strata being highly lami- 
nated, and others what is technically termed liver-rock, showing but litUe 
signs of stratification ; and the color varies from a cold blue to a warm hlac 

grav. 

The quarries which appear to have been worked to the greatest extent, 
are those called the College quarries, from their belonging to the College 
at Georgetown. The color of the stone in these is generally a blue gray, 
(see specimen 21, of Dr. Owen's report,) and is rather cold and unpleasant 
in its aspect^ though several of the strata or layers m the nnddle ol the 



[23] 



106 



quarry were of a pleasant and warm gray. See specimen No. 23. These 
latter, however, are difficult of access, having several strata of inferior 
stone over them, and cannot therefore be obtained without great and un- 
necessary expense, and should only be resorted to in the event that no 
other stone of equal color and quality can be found in a more favorable 
position. 

The College quarries lie to the northwest of Bull run and Seneca creek. 
Tlie dip of the strata is at an inclination of about 20° to the southwest. 

To the northwest of these quarries, and on the same face, are quarries 
belonging to Mr. Peter, where we found the buff-colored stone; (specimen 
No. 24.) It is much to be regretted that this stone is neither sufficiently 
durable, from its being argillaceous, nor found in sufficient quantities for 
the purposes of the institution, as, in my opinion, it surpasses in color any 
stone I have as yet seen in this country; resembling in hue that used in 
Edinburgh, and the Caen and Bath stones, \vhich were so much used and 
so highly esteemed by the architects of the middle ages. 

To the north of this quarry is one belonging to Mr. Lee. The color of 
the stone in this is a warm gray, and the texture is fine and highly sili- 
cious, and the quality is excellent. It is a liver-rock, and is found in^ 
several strata of considerable thickness, which would afford an abundant 
supply. Some of the layers, however, contain copper, which might possi- 
bly render it liable to stain by long exposure, unless carefully selected. 
See specimen No. 25. 

From this quarry, the most northern one we examined, we proceeded 
in a southeasterly direction, recrossing the College quarry to the Bull run, 
belonging to Mr. Peter. The quarry on this run has been opened at a 
point up the stream, distant about 300 yards east of the Potomac. 

The stone is of excellent quality, of even color, being of a warm gray, 
a lilac tint resembling that known as ashes of roses, and can, from all 
indications, be found in sutiicient quantities to supply all the face work for 
the instituyon. 

There appear to be three layers of this color, which are, respectively, 
20, 24, and 30 inches in thickness. 

The stone is highly silicious, rings when struck with the hammer, and 
where it has been exposed in the bed of the Bull run to the action of the 
water and frost apparently for ages, and in the culvert under the canal for 
several years, shows little or no signs of decay. 

We traced strata of this color from the present quarries to the mouth of the 
Bull run, and found it between an overlying layer of a shaly or slaty ar- 
gillaceous quality, (which is easily decomposed, and must therefore be very 
carefully avoided,) and a substratum of the dark red-colored stone, (see No. 
18 of Dr. Owen's report.) We also found stone of the same color and 
quality in an old quarry, distant about 600 feet south from the mouth of 
the Bull run; thus rendering a sufficient supply almost' certain. 

The strata lie well for quarrying, having but a slight covering and slo- 
ping towards (he run, thus enabling it to be quarried without binding, 
which will render the expense small ; and ihe color is equal to that of any 
stone we examined, except the buff. In company with Mr. Peter, we 
next visited a house built of coursed and hammered rubble masonry of 
stone of this color, in which it had a pleasing and airy effect upon the 
eye. Mr. Peter's stable is also built of stone of this color, and produces 



k 



107 [ 23 ] 

an excellect effect. From the above examinations, we were therefore of 
opinion that Lee's quarries, and tliose on the Bull run, combine, more than 
any of the others we have visited, the requisites most necessary for struc- 
ture, durabihty, and beauty. 

We would also recommend, if the quarry on the Bull run be chosen, 
that none darker than specimen No. 19 in Dr. Owen's report be allowed 
to be used in the building, and that great care be taken to prevent any of 
the argillaceous stone being used; and if Lee's quarry should be selected, 
that all rock showing indications of copper be prohibited from being used. 
I subjoin herewith a rough top(-)graphical map of the region, in which the 
distances and localities are put down from memory, as the limited time of 
our visit prevented any accurate measurements. 

Respectfully submitted. 

JAMES RENWICK, Jr., Architect. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That the architect cause to be procured and dressed a block 
of freestone, of the warm gray color, from Lee's quarry; and also, that he 
cause to be dressed, in ashlar finish, a portion of the block of freestone from 
Bull run quarry, now lying before the west wing of the City Hall. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton,it was 

Resolved, That the chairman address a letter to the president of the 
Chesapeake and Ohio canal, asking a reduction of the rates of toll on said 
canal, in favor of the contractor. 

Mr Mills, superintendent, submitted to the committee several specimens 
of freestone, of excellent quality and good color, from the neighborhood of 
Aquia creek, Virginia. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That Dr. Owen visit and report upon the Aquia creek quar- 
ries of freestone. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

SEVENTEENTH MEETING— March 25, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Owen and Seaton. 

The chairman laid before the committee the copy of a letter, which, in 
accordance with the instructions, he had addressed to the president of the 
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, as follows: 

Washington, March 25, 1847. 

Sir: I am instructed by the building committee of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution to inquire of you, whether, in the event ol the selection of a build- 
ing material by them from quarries in the neighborhood of Seneca creek, 
your company would consent to reduce the reite of toll, so far as regards 
the buildings of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The amount required by us may, in a measure, depend upon your an- 
swer, as it is not yet determined upon what we will back tlie wails with. 
If Seneca stone be taken for the entire walls, I suppose that IO,OUU perches 
of 25 feet may be required. 

The Maryland railroad companies had agreed, in event of our selectmg 



[23] 



108 



marble, to reduce their rates of freight, in our favor, from 4 cents to 2^ 
cents per ton per mile. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

ROBERT DALE OWEN, 
Chairman of the Building Committee. 
To the Presidext 

of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That the architect be. and he is hereby instructed, during 
the course of the present year, to commence and carry on to completion 
the whole of the east wing and the east connecting range, so far as is con- 
sistent with the safety of the structure; and also, to commence the founda- 
tions of the west wing and the west connecting range, and take such pre- 
paratory steps towards the work of the said wing and range as may allow 
the contractors to prosecute the work with proper economy. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the architect be authorized to cause to be prepared two 
perspective views of the building — one of the north front, from the north- 
west, and one of the south front, from the southeast — provided the cost of 
completing the two said views in the best style of art shall not exceed two 
hundred dollars; and that the same be colored to correspond with the 
color of the stone that may he adopted for the facing of the building. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Owen endeavor to procure from the several railroad 
companies between this city and New York, a free passage for the architect 
of the institution, pending the erection of the building. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

EIGHTEENTH MEETING— March 26, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Owen and Seaton. 

The chairman submitted the following letter from Mr. Peter, owner of 
Bull run quarry, and other quarries in the vicinity of Seneca creek : 

MoNTE Video, (near Darnestoion, Montgomery/ County, 
Maryland,) March 22, 1847. 

Dear Sir : Yours of the 18th instant was received on Saturday last, 
in which you state that the building committee have decided to use as 
the material in the erection of the Smithsonian Institution the stone from 
some one of my quarries, and that they accept the terms as communica- 
ted in my letter of the 9th of December to Mr. Seaton, to wit: 

Twenty-five cents a perch for all stone intended for face or cut work, 
and twelve and a half cents per perch fur all calculated for backing or 
rubble work. 

The whole number of quarries will be subject to your preference, and 
1 will be pleased if you will mnke the selection at as early a day as con- 
venient, as there are several persons applying for permission to obtain 
stone for other purposes. 

Yours, very respectfully, 

JOHN P. C. PETER. 

Hon. RoBT. Dale Owen, 

Chairman Building Committee. 



109 [ 23 ] 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the final decision on the subject embraced in Mr. 
Peter's letter be delayed until the return of Dr. Owen from Aquia creek, 
and until his report on the quarries there is received. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That among the trees to be planted within the grounds of 
the institution there be inclnded the following : 

Elm, beech, oak, osage, orange, pecan, iiugar maple, silver-leafed maple, 
weeping-willow, silver-leafed willow, magnolia grandiflnra, pride of China, 
common laurel, tulip tree, dogwood, holly, hawthorn, horsechesnut, 
Spanish chesnut, walnut, hickory, mountain ash, lime tree, evergreens, 
(including the several varieties of pines,) aspen, and sycamore. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

NINETEENTH MEETING— March 30, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

The chairman submitted from Dr. Owen the following 

Report on the Aquia creek and other Stafford county freestones. 

To the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : On the 26th of March, agreeably to a resolution passed 
by your committee, I proceeded down the Potomac to examine the quar- 
ries of freestone of Stafford county, Virginia. 

On arriving at the mouth of Aqnia creek, which is 50 miles from 
Washington, 1 learned that the quarries which have been chiefly wrought 
for the public buildings lie about seven miles tip that stream. 

On my way 1 stopped at Major Brook's, five miles on this side of 
Fredricksburg, to obtain some information about the route. Learning 
from that gentleman that there were several good quarries of freestone 
in his immediate vicinity, on Accokeek creek, and near the line of the rail- 
road, I determined to visit them. 

I found them situated on both sides of Accokeek creek, close to Major 
Brook's mill-dam. The upper beds here are about six to eight feet above 
the level of the creek, and are of a coarse texture, approaching to the na- 
ture of a conglomerate. Beneath, about four to five feet above the level 
of the creek, the rock is finer-grained, with some yellow and gray streaks, 
(«ee No. 26.) The rock on this part of Accokeek is below the level of 
the water when the flood-gates of the mill-race are closed. It was here 
that the rock of which the mill-dam is constructed was quarried. So far, 
it has stood the test of exposure in this situation well. The abutments 
of the railroad viaduct over Accokeek creek are constructed of rock from 
these quarries ; and though the selection does not seem to have been very 
carefully made, it still remains a substantial work. 

The quarries on Aquia creek most convenient to navigation, and those 
which furnish a rock lightest colored, finest grained, and most uniform, 
are situated on what is called the Island, being a neck of land seven 
miles by the course of the stream from its mouth. This island is eleva- 
ted 15 to 20 feet above a flat swampy plain, which surrounds it on every 
side, and which, in the early settlement of the country, was an inland 
bay, navigable for small craft. 



[23] 



110 



At present the waters are contracted into the narrow channel of Aquia 
creek, about 15 feet wide. 

One of the quarries on this island is known by the name of Stewart's 
quarry, but now owned by Mr. Symington, of Baltimore. To liie north 
and south of it are two others, belonging to the United States. 

The columns of the east portico of the Capitol, each of a single piece 
weighing 18 tons, were obtained at these United States quarries. 

The principal ledge hitherto worked here has a covering of only two or 
three feet of earth, and lies nearly horizontal, in a vast bed from six to 
eight or 10 feet in thickness, without the slightest apparent seam. For 
this reason, though the bed is so near the surface, it has been quarried at 
great expense, at least by the method hitherto employed, which is to 
groove it behind and on one side two feet wide, (or suflicient to receive a 
man,) in a vertical direction, even to its base, and then " loft" it off in a 
horizontal direction by the introduction of wedges at the bottom of the 
bed in the direction of the stratiticaiion. 

I'his Lsland freestone is of light color, almost 7.'hite when dry ; and is 
equal, if not superior, in texture and color, to any of the sandstones in 
this neigborhood. That on Symington's tract (see specimen JSo. 27) is 
rather of a finer grain than in either of the United States quarries; (see 
specimen 28.) 

Part of the rock employed on the inside of the Post Office was procured 
on this island. 

Numerous other quarries are f)und in this vicinity, many of them well 
opened and wrought to a considerable extent. JNone are, however, imme- 
diately on the bank of Aquia creek. Some lie to the east of the swamp, 
in the ridge which lies between Aquia creek and the Potomac river, and 
distant from the latter stream from three to seven miles. These were not 
visited, as there were no means of crossing the swamp. Others have 
been opened in many places along the banks of Rocky run. 

The stream empties into Austin's run, which bounds the island and 
swamp on the southwest. That nearest to Aquia creek is distant Ironi 
half a mile \^ three quarters of a mile, and is situated on the south side 
of Rocky run, close to the road which leads from the island to Captain 
Towson's. This quarry affords a tolerable freestone, (see specimen INo. 
29,) but it has spots and streaks in it, and is of rather a coarser texture 
and not so uniform in color as the Island quarry. 

About one mile further on the same road, and distant about a mile 
and a half from Aquiacreek, on the north side of Rocky run, is Towson'.s 
Beech quarry, which has been wrought to a considerable extent, and has, 
as most of the quarries here, a fine face on it, all having been worked on 
the old-fashioned plan of " grooving" and " lofting," as heretofore de- 
scribed. The rock at this locality is of a very fair quality ; little inferior 
to Symington's Island quarry, (see specimen JNo. 30,) and well situated 
as regards drainage and covering for quarrying. Occasional clay and fer- 
rucrinous spots are visible ; but a large supply could probably be obtained 
here, by proper selection, free from any very unsightly flaws or blemishes. 

Half a mile further on, or two miles from Aquia creek, on the south 
side of Rocky run, is Robinson's quarry, the property of Mr. Galehorn. 

It will be observed, by specimen numbered 31, that the texture of the 
rock at this place is rather finer, and the color more of a buff, than at the 
previously described quarry. 



Ill [23] 

Two and a half miles from Aquia creek, and distant about half a mile 
to aq^uarter of a mile from Captain Tovvson's house, is another quarry of 
freestone belonging to that gentleman. The beds here are free to work, 
but much more mterlaminated or leafy in structure, tlian any of the quar- 
ries examined, and certainly less durable; (see specimen JNo, 32.) The 
face of this specimen on which the number stands, gives a good idea 
of the tint which this rock acquires by time and exposure. 

On Jackson's branch of Rocky run, from a mile to a mile and a half 
south from the island, is a bold quarry, owned by Peggy Norman. The rock 
here is no doubt durable, but exceedingly indurated, and would be nearly 
as expensive to cut as granite; (see specimen No. 33.) 

Besides the quarries liere enumerated, various others have been opened 
on both sides of Rocky run, of similar quality and appearance to those 
already described. In fact, every hill for many miles in this neighbor- 
hood IS composed of solid beds of freestone, varying in texture from a 
conglomerate and even pudding stone, to a fine grained rock sinnlar to 
number 2*5, and varying in shade from a yellowish brown and a buff 
color, to a nearly pure wliite. It is probable enough, that as new quar- 
ries are opened a Letter material may be found than any yet disclosed. 

In none of the quarries visited in Stafibrd county did I observe red 
and pink freestones like those of Seneca creek. JXeilher did 1 see there 
any of those schistose beds, with green cupreous incrustations, such as 
occur in the sandstone formation of the upper Potomac, in the cupfer- 
schiefer of Germany, the copper States of England, and the Permian 
system of Russia. On the geological charts of this region, these free- 
stones are designated as of the same age as the red sandstones of the 
Connecticut valley and New Jersey. They differ from these materially 
in litliological character, and apparently in associated minerals, so far as I 
have had opportunity of judging; nevertheless, they may be cotempora- 
neous; this can be ascertained only by a careful search after organic re- 
mains, whicli time did not permit. 

On my return to the watering station on Accokeek, I stopped at Major 
Brook's lor the purpose of seeing a quarryman who has ha^long experi- 
ence not only in the quarries of Aquia and Accokeek creeks, but also in 
the marble and granite quarries of the eastern States. 

He informed uie that at seven miles from the mouth of Aquia creek, 
close to the railroad, at the high bridg;e on Potomac run, there are solid 
ledges of freestone in an escarpment of 90 feet ; and according to his state- 
ment, there is at that locality a bed very similar in texture and color to 
that previou.sly described as owned by Symington. Unfortunately, it lies 
deep seated, and would require a stripping of about 15 feet to get at it ; 
but he says that the strata rise, as you proceed up the Potomac run, to the 
west, and that there is reason to believe that the ledge in question can 
be found near the surface about a quarter of a mile from the railroad. If 
it remains of uniform texture for that distance, a material not inferior in 
quality to the best rock on the island might be quarried there more conve- 
nient to transportation, and in a much more healthy situation, than on the 
island, surrounded, as that locality is on aH sides, by low marshy plains. 

On questioning this man with regard to the comparative expense of 
quarrying freestone there and on Seneca creek, he confidently asserted 
that by a judicious mode of drilling and very careful blasting, rock migtit 
be quarried even cheaper here than on Seneca creek, although at the latter 



[ 23 ] 112 

locality the beds, being thinner and of a less "livery" nature, can be easily 
split by the "plug and feather," because on Aquia and Accokeek creeks, 
and Potomac run, there is much less stripping, and because tlie beds lie 
more level and undisturbed, "^rhis, however, is certain — that by the old 
metliod employed by (Japtain Towson, dimension stone from Aquia creek 
has hither cost $6 per ton of 15 cubic feet, or 40 cents per foot ; and even 
these prices have not afforded an extravagant profit to the owners of 
quarries; whilst there can be liitle doubt that dimension-stone can be fur- 
nished from Seneca creek for half that amount. 

If good material could be obtained near the line of the railroad, either 
in the neighborhood of Potomac run, or, still nearer, the mouth of Aquia 
creek, transportation would certainly not cost as much as from the quar- 
ries on the Island and Rocky run. 'Phere are several obstructions between 
the quarry and the mouth of the creek, which render it often necessary 
to lighten the vessels by means of scows, over these bars, and none of the 
vessels of suitable draught for the navigation of Aquia creek carry over 
SO to 100 tons ; whereas, if laden at the terminus of the railroad, they 
could easily carry double that amount, requiring but the same number of 
hands. 

From all the workable beds of freestone of Stafford county, so far as 
they had been opened, a very considerable portion must be rejected on 
account of flaws and stains; but, as a general rule, there is less than in 
the Seneca quarries. 

The general appearance of the lighter (buff-colored) beds of the free- 
stones of Stafford county, Virginia, laid up in range work, may be seen 
by inspecting the east gate-way of the President's House, the entrances 
to the Capitol ^rrounds, and the inside work of the Post Office. 

Under the magnifier, minute dark specks may be observed of the color 
of blacksmiths' scales, wliich are probably small grains of a mixture of 
the protoxide and peroxide of iron. If this be their composition, they 
will, doubtless, in peroxidating, acquire a yellowish or reddish color. Still, 
in many specimens these are so minute, that the effect would be only to 
mellow the c»lor, without materially atiecting the durability of the mass. 
That a proportion of this stone is free from material blemish and is a du- 
rable material, is confirmed by an inspection of the ledges and blocks in 
sight, and in the structures composed of the best rock, long exposed to 
atmospheric vicissitudes ; by the glistening particles disseminated on the 
face of fresh fractures ; by the action of the rock on the edge of the dress- 
ing tool, indicative of a tolerably pure grit-stone, free from argillaceous 
admixture; by the heavy solid bed in which it lies in the quarry, gen- 
erally free from interlamination ; and, finally, by the hardening of the 
mass by exposure. 

I incline to believe that the sample of Aquia creek freestone furnished 
to Dr. Page for examination was not equal to the average quality of the 
better quarries in Stafford county. 

Mr. Dixon, the contractor, is of opinion that the general run of the free- 
stones will be somewhat but not very much more expensive to work and 
carve than the Seneca sandstones. 

As the result of my examination of these quarries, in connexion with 
those of the upper Potomac, I state my belief, that the Stafford county region 
can furnish an unlimited supply of freestone, of which, by dint of care- 
ful seleca )n, a portion may be obtained both sound and durable ; not, 



I 



113 [ 23 ] 

indeed, free from yellowish or gray streaks, nor, certainly, of as fine a 
grain as the lilac-gray of Seneca creek, but not disfigured by conspicuous 
holes, pebbles, or stains, such as are almost universal in the blocks to be 
seen in the pubUc buildings in Washington, where this material has been 
used. 

I think it owes its present bad character as much to indiscriminate 
selection as to inherent defects. Its color, occasionally approaching that 
of marble, is in its favor, though time and the weather change it for the 
worse. (See specimen No. 32, on the face where marked.) 

It would make a lighter and more airy-looking building than the lilac- 
gray. But I am convinced that it could not be delivered in Washington 
nearly as cheap as the latter ; especially if, as the owners of the Aqnm creek 
quarries thought, slave labor only could be employed there. And I feel 
assured that, even with reasonable care in selection, the chance of pro- 
curing the white sandstones unblemished by disfiguring spots or stains, 
is uncertain ; far more so than in the case of the lilac-gray. 

Upon the whole, this latter material, as found in the middle beds of Bull 
run quarry, seems to me the safest and best of the Potomac freestones; 
somewhat darker, indeed, than one would desire, if the choice were free, 
but uniform in color, improving in its tint by the bleaching effect of time, 
not liable to be disfigured by accumulation of smoke and dust, and of un- 
'questionable solidity and durability. 

I annex to this report a rough chart of the freestone quarries of Aquia 
creek, drawn by the eye, without actual measurement. It will give a 
general idea of their relative situation. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

DAVID DALE OWEN. 

Washington, March 30, 1847. 

Specimens referred to in the foregoing report. 

No. 26. Major Brook's quarry, lower beds. 

No. 27. Symington's island quarry. 

No. 28. United States island quarry. 

No, 29. Beard's quarry on Rocky run. 

No, 30. Towson's Beech quarry. 

No, 31, Robinson's quarry, owned by Galehorn, 

No, 32. Towson's quarry, near his house. 

No. 33. Peggy Norman's quarry, on Jackson's branch. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the material for the external walls of the building be 
freestone, of the lilac-gray color, similar to specimen No. 19 of Dr. Owen's 
report on the freestones of Seneca creek, and that none be used darker 
than that specimen ; to be taken either from Bull run quany, or from any 
other contiguous quarry furnisliing freestone of the same color and of equal 
quality. 

Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be furnished to the contractors, 
and that specimen No. 19, above referred to, be carefully preserved for 
reference. 

Resolved, That if two wells be opened by the contractors, of such size 
and description and in such spots as may be designated by the architect, 
»8 



[23] 



114 



the committee will allow for them, when the building is completed, what- 
ever they may then be worth. 

Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing resolution be furnished to the 
contractors. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTIETH MEETING— March 31, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen, 

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter, in reply to 
that addressed by him to the president of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal 
Company : 

Frederick, March 29, 1847. 

Sir : Your letter of the 25th instant, making inquiry whether the Ches- 
apeake and Ohio Canal Company would consent to reduce the rates of toll 
on stone, " so far as regards the buildings of the Smithsonian Institution,"" 
has been received, and I will preseot it to the consideration of the board 
of president and directors at their next meeting, on the 7th of April, and 
communicate to you their answer. 

I would here, hoM^ever, merely remark, that the toll charged on stone at 
present on the canal is 1 cent per perch per mile for twenty miles, and 1^ 
cent per perch per mile for any greater distance it may be carried ; and that 
with their rates and the usual charge made by boatmen for transporting it, 
the cost by the canal would, I think, be less than by the railroad, even at 
the reduced charge mentioned in your letter. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

J. M. COALE, 
President of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company. 

To the Hon. Robert Dale Owen. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Besolvedy That Mr. Seaton be a subcommittee to see the Commissioner 
of Public Buildings, and endeavor to procure from him permission for the 
contractors to use the remains of the old fence standing on such portions 
of the mall between 7th and 12th streets as is not included in the site of 
the institution. 

Mr. Owen stated to the, committee that it was his intention to proceed 
to-morrow to New York, for the purpose of making preliminary arrange- 
ments regarding the preparation and publication of the work on " Public 
Architecture" intrusted to him, as per resolution passed by this committee 
on the 6th instant, and that he would take that opportunity of communi- 
cating with the several presidents of the railroad companies between Wash- 
ington and New York, and endeavor to procure a free ticket on those roads 
for the architect of the institution. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-FIRST MEETING— April 6, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

Mr. Owen having returned from New York, made, in regard to his pro- 
ceedings there, the following report : 



115 [ 23 ] 

After conversing with the principal publishers in New York, in regard 
to the terms on which they would be willing to publish the volume of 
'' Public Architecture," of which the preparation was intrusted to me by 
resolution of the committee of the Gth March, I finally, with the aid of 
Mr. Drayton, (to whom I am greatly indebted for the valuable information 
and assistance he gave me,) made with Wiley & Putnam, one of the most 
respectable firms of the city, the following contract: 

Agreement between Wiley Sj' Putnam, publishers of the city of New York, 
of the first part, and the Building Committee of tJte S/nit/isonian Insti- 
tution, Inj the chairm,an of said committee, of the second part, dated this 
3d day of April, ISil. 

Whereas the said building committee are charged with the preparation 
and publication of a volume on architecture, to be entitled '^ Hints on 
Public Architecture," and to contain numerous and valuable illustrations, 
including two perspective views of the buildings of the said Smithsonian 
Institution, and also to have an appendix containing the results of a re- 
search about to be made under the auspices of the said institution, to test 
the properties of the most important building-materials throughout the 
United States : 

Now the parties of the first part hereby contract and agree to have the 
said work set up in small pica, of such face as the said committee shall 
select, thin leaded for the body of the work, and either small pica solid or 
long primer for the appendix, at the option of said committee. And the 
said parties of the first part agree, that the letter-press paper shall measure 
19| inches by 26, and that it shall be of such quahty as to cost not less 
than 16 cents per pound, and that each ream shall weigh not less than 40 
pounds. Atid the parties of the first part further agree, that the printing 
shall be done in the best manner, with ink of the first quality, and the 
wood-cuts carefully overlaid, (so as to give their full effect,) by a suitable 
person accustomed to such work; and also, that the copperplate paper shall 
be of quality as good as the letter-press paper, of the same size, and of 
the proper thickness and qualities required for fine illustrations, and that 
the copperplate printing shall be done in the best manner. And the said 
parties of the first part further agree, that the page of printed matter shall 
be about five inches and three-quarters by nine inches, and that the bind- 
ing shall be in cloth, gilt lettered, and of such material as shall cost thirty 
cents per volume. And the said parties of the first part agree to do the 
whole of the above work, including materials, at their own cost and ex- 
pense. 

And the party of the second part agree that they will furnish, at their 
own cost and expense, the entire illustrations for said work, including two 
perspective views of the Smithsonian Institution, and that the said illustra- 
tions shall be of such number and quality as shall cost one thousand dollars, 
and said illustrations shall be executed in the best style of art; and that as 
many of the said illustrations as are to be incorporated with the text shall be 
wood-cuts, and that the rest shall be either copperplate or steel engravings; 
and that they will deliver the same to the parties of the first part free of all 
charge, and completely ready for printing. And the said parties of the 
second part further agree that they will furnish to the parties of the first 
part the manuscript of the said work free of all charge, and that the same 



[23] 



116 



shall not exceed, including the appendix, one hundred and fifty printed 
pages. 

And for and in consideration of the furnishing, by the said parties of the 
second part, of the illustrations and manuscript as aforesaid, the parties of 
the first part agree to deliver to the parties of the second part five hun- 
dred copies of the said work, complete and bound as aforesaid, so soon as 
the same can be prepared ; and they further agree that, so soon as the sale 
of the said work shall have returned to them the cost of composition, 
printing, paper, and binding, then, out of the first profits of the same they 
the said party of the first part will further deliver to the parties of the 
second part additional copies of the said work until the said additional 
copies amount to five hundred, so that the whole number of copies fur- 
nished shall be one thousand in all, free of all charge to the parties of the 
second part. 

And it is mutually agreed that after the delivery of the said thousand 
copies the said illustrations shall be and remain the property of the parties 
of the first part ; but the said parties of the first part agree that they will 
at any time, on being thereto required by the parties of the second part, 
deliver to the said parties of ihe second part any number of impressions 
from any of the said plates at the cost of paper and printing. 

And the said parties of the first part agree that so soon as the illustra- 
tions and manuscript are delivered to them, they will cause the said 
work to be published without unnecessary delay. 

In testimony whereof, the parties of tlie first part have hereunto set 
their hands and seals, and the chairman of the said building committee 
has hereunto subscribed his name, on the behall of the said building 
committee, the day and year above written. 

RUBt::RT DALb: OWEN, Chairman, 
on behalf of Budding Commiitet (f Smithsonian Institution. 

Rathbun Allen, 
Witness as to signature of Robert Dale Owen* 

WILEY & PUTNAM. 

William B. Graves, 
Witness as to signature of Wiley 5^' Putnam. 

The size selected is what is called long quarto, and its somewhat ob- 
long shape is suitable for plates. The price stipulated for the paper, $6 40 
a ream, insures its good quality. The size of the paper and of type, and 
the size of the printed page, were selected in part with reference to the 
probable form of our Transactions, which form, I think, might advanta- 
geously be copied, without variation, from this volume. 

I found that no publisher would agree to deliver to us one thousand 
copies at once, nor until they had secured a return of the money actually 
expended by them. "^Phey were all of opinion that so large a number as 
one thousand copies distributed at the outset, would so injure the sale as 
to make it a losing business. 

As it was necessary to obtain considerable assistance from Mr. Ren- 
wick in preparing dravvings for wood-cut illustrations, revising text,(fcc., 
I made a verbal agreement with him that, in return for such assistance as 
:I might have occasion to require of him. iie should receive twenty-five 



117 [23] 

copies of the work out of the first 500, and 25 copies more out of the 
second five hundred received by us. 

By these aVrangements the entire sum of one thousand dollars, appro- 
priated for the pubUcation of this work, can be expended on illustrations, 
giving much increased value to it. 

With a view still to increasi; that value, I took some steps which I hope 
will secure us additional illustrations executed in the best style. 

Finding that the marble front of Stewart's new dry-goods store in Broad- 
way was probably the finest specimen of the modern Italian style of ar- 
chitecture in the United States, I procured an introduction to Mr. Stew- 
art's partner, (Mr. S. being now in Europe,) and proposed to him that 
if he would expend $100 to furnish us an elevation of his store, on steel, 
we would afterwards, if he desired it, furnish him as many copies as he 
might require at the cost of paper and printing. He said he would write 
immediately to Mr. Stewart ; that he did not doubt that he would agree to 
it. He is to communicate the result to Mr. Renwick, who will superin- 
tend the preparation of the plate. 

I was also introduced by Mr. Renwick to the principal vestrymen of 
Grace church ; and he expressed to me his hope that he could obtain 
from the vestrv a vote for a similar plate of that church, a fine specimen 
of the latter or Flamboyant gothic. 

I also commissioned Mr. Renwick, who is acquainted with some of the 
vestry at Trinity church, to see them, and try to obtain a plate of that 
edifice. 

These plates, if obtained, would furnish excellent illustrations of the 
most suitable character, and give much additional character to the publi- 
cation. 

I called upon A. B. Durand, president of the Academy of Design, now 
a portrait and historical painter, and formerly the best engineer in the 
United States, and ascertained his opinion, that the best engravers for 
portraits in the United States are Cassilear, 22 Bleeker street, New York, 
and Cheeney, of Philadelphia. 

He considers Roberts, of New York, the best wood-cutter. He thinks 
that to Cassdear or Cheeney the portrait of Smithson, for our Transac- 
tions, should be intrusted. 

I called on Robert Schuyler, president of the Brunswick and New 
York railroad, in regard to a season ticket, or free ticket, for our architect, 
Mr. Renwick. There is no chance of obtaining a free ticket. A season 
ticket at a reduced rate may possibly be obtained. Mr. Schuyler promised 
to write to me on the subject. 

I did not until further consultation decide whether the perspective 
drawings of our institution, etc., should be in quarto or double quarto 
form. The folding of the latter seems to me so objectionable, that I in- 
cline to the former, though it be somewhat small for so extensive a 
building. 

Respectfully submitted, by 

ROBERT DALE OWEN. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the prospective views of the institution, alluded to in 
the above report, be executed ni quarto form. 

The chairman submitted from the superintendent the following com- 
munication : 



[ 23 ] 118 

AprilG, 1S47. 

Dear Sir: On consulting with the Commissioner of Public Build- 
ings in relation to the use, by the committee, of the old fence around the 
mall, between 7lh and 12th streets, to enclose the lot of the institution, 
between the same points, he agrees to allow so much of the same as is 
necessary for this purpose. 

I have made an estimate to determine what the expense would be of 
removing, repairing, and enclosing this open fence with a five feet height 
of palings, and found it would amount to four hundred dollars. 

The circuit of these grounds is 3,680 feet. 

Mr. r3ixon reports that the expense of conducting the water from the 
Market-house pipe to the building, will cost six hundred and fifty dollars. 

Respectfully submitted. 

ROBERT MILLS, 
Assistant Architect and SupH Smithsonian Institution. 

To the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 

Chairman of the Building Committee 

of tiie ISmilhsonian Institution. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That, for the purpose of conveying to the building a supply 
of water, as well for the builders as for the pernjanent uses of the institu- 
tion, the consent of the Commissioner of the Public Buildings be re- 
quested for drawing a supply from the water plug at the Centre Market- 
house, to be conveyed thence, by a leaden pipe, to the institution. 

Resolved^ That an arrangement be made with some responsible con- 
tractor for laying said pipes, provided the cost thereof does not exceed 
$650. 

Resolved, That the resolution of the 30th ultimo, in regard to the dig- 
ging two wells, be, and the same is hereby, rescinded. 

Resolved, That Mr. Downer, or some other responsible person, be em- 
ployed to build a substantial paling fence around the institution ground, 
provided the same cost not more than S'iOO, and that the fence be as high 
as the present rails will permit with safety. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-SECOND MEETING— April 9, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

Mr. Owen stated to the committee that he had spoken with one of the 
Regents, Mr. A. D. Bache, on the subject of procuring a steel plate of the 
Girard College, from the managers of the said institution, on the same 
terms proposed to Mr. Stewart, as mentioned in his (Mr. O.'s) report of 
April 6; and that Mr. Bache promised to write on the subject to the prin- 
cipal manager of the Girard College, and to communicate the result to the 
committee. 

Mr. Owen also stated that he had written on the same subject to Mr. 
Richard Rush, Regent, from Philadelphia, requesting him to use his in- 
fluence to procure for us the said plate. 

Mr. Seaton stated that he was about to write a similar letter to 
Mr. Ogden Hoffman, one of the vestrymen of Calvary church. New 



119 [ 23 ] 

York, with the view of procuring a plate of that church on similar terms, 
as a specimen of the lancet gothic style of architecture ; and that he 
would communicate the result to the committee. 

Mr. Owen submitted from the contractor, Mr. Dixon, the following : 

Washington, Apiil 8, 1847. 
Gentlemen : After minute examination of all the quarries on Mr. Peter's 
land, it is extremely doubtful to me whether or not a sufficient quantity of 
the stone on which the contract is based can be procured in any of his 
quarries, as that stratum seems to be nearly exhausted. There seems to 
be abundance of stone in the bed under which No. 19 has been worked 
off; but it appears to be of a much deeper color, and a great deal harder 
in its texture, and could not be cut at anything like the price of No. 19 
stone. 

There are, I am told, a great many quarries of sandstone on Seneca 
creek, on Mr. Vincent's* land; but knowing that your board was about to 
adjourn, I hastened back to make this statement, and had not time to ex- 
amine them. 

Respectfully, &c., 

JAMES DIXON. 
To the Building Committee 

of the Smitlisonian Institution. 

P. S. — If I am right in my opinion that the Bull run quarries will not 
produce the stone that you have selected, it might be well enough for the 
board, before their final adjournment, to pass a resolution to this effect: 
that some discretionary power be left with the architect to change or modi- 
fy the material, otherwise the building would necessarily come to a stand; 
but this I leave to your better comprehension. 

J. D. 

Laid on the table. 

Mr. Owen submitted from Mr. Joel Downer, carpenter, the following 
offer to put up a temporary fence around the grounds of the institution: 

Washington, April 8, 1848. 

Gentlemen.: I will contract to enclose the ground with a paling fence 
from 5 feet 8 inches to G feet, average; the palings to be sawed, three 
inches wide, of the best quality that comes to our market; the palings to 
be nailed on the rails with three nailings, and 6 nails in each paling, 
with a bottom board averaging 12 inches in width. It is understood that 
the posts and rails now standing on 1 2th street and B street are to be 
righted up and made use of; and the posts and rails for the north and east 
line are to be taken up from the public enclosure, and used for that pur- 
pose. I will put up the fence in a good and substantial manner for four 
hundred dollars. 

Respectfully, 

JOEL DOWNER. 

To the Building Committee 

of the Smithsonian Institution. 



* Supposed Charles Vinson : see p. 43.— R- D. 0. 



[23] 



120 



[Note. — On inqniry, I learn that the above bid includes all materials^ 
though not expressly so stated. 

ROBERT DALE OWEN.] 

Laid on the table. 

Ordered, That, for the present^ the services of Wm. McPeak^ messen- 
ger, be dispensed with. 

On motion of ]Mr. Owen, 

Resolved, That the architect be authorized to cause to be erected on the 
ground a secure temporary building, as an office for the said architect, 
provided the same shall not cost over two hundred dollars. 

The chairman stated to the committee the request of Mr. Mills, the su- 
perintendent, that he be allowed the use of the lower rooms in the City 
Hall which were granted by the corporation to the building committee, 
until the same are required by the committee. 

Ordcrcdy That Mr. Mills be allowed the use of said rooms accordingly. 
On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That the city surveyor be requested to make out a plat of the 
grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, laying down the levels at each 
intersection of one hundred feet. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-THIRD MEETING— April 10, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

Mr. Owen submitted for consideration the following resolutions, relative 
to the work on '^ Public Architecture," of which the preparation had been 
intrusted to him: 

Resolved, That the work on '^ Public Architecture," to be published by 
the couimittee, contain a comparative review of the advantages, economy, 
and facility of adaptation to modern purposes, of v^ious styles of public 
architecture, particularly the Grecian, modern Italian, Gothic of different 
ages, and Norman; giving the actual cost, compared to extent of accom- 
modations, of some of the principal pubHc edifices in the United States, in 
the various styles, including some of the public buildings in Washington, 
and others erected by the general government. 

Resolved, That, so far as the funds permit, the said work contain illus- 
trations, in the best style of art, representing such among the public buildings 
of the United States as exhibit the purest specimens of architecture, in 
various styles, including two perspective views of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, on steel; one perspective view of the gotliic plan submitted for 
competition by Mr. James Renwick, jr., architect of the institution; one 
perspective view of the Norman plan submitted by Mr. Haviland, provided 
he (Mr. H.) will, at his own cost, reduce the drawing to the required size; 
one perspective view either of the plan submitted by Mr. Arnot, or that 
submitted by Mr. Notman, provided the architect will, at his own cost, 
reduce the drawing to the rerpiired size; one geometrical elevation of the 
Italian plan submitted by Mr. Daniel, of Cincinnati, provided he will re- 
duce the same; also ground plans and geometrical elevations of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and one or two interiors of die same. 

Resolved, That application be made, in the proper quarters, for plates of 
the following public edifices, to wit: 



121 [ 23 ] 



1. Girard College, 



2. Stewart's diy-gonds store, Broadway; New York. 

3. Grace Church, New York. 

4. Trinity Church, New York. 

5. Calvary Church, New York. 

And if the respective authorities are willing to furnish such plates, with- 
out cost, then that the same be used in the said Avork, accompanied by a 
brief description of each edifice. And in that case, that the chairman of 
the building committee be empowered to agree with those furnishing the 
said plates, that the Smithsonian Institution will, at any time, furnish to 
them as many impressions from the plates thus furnished by them as 
they may desire, at the cost of paper and printing. 

Resolved, That, if the funds permit, the said work contain a geometri- 
cal or perspective view of the east front of the Capitol of the United States, 
and a geometrical elevation of the south front of the General Post Office. 

In submitting the above resolutions, Mr. Owen stated to the committee 
that it was his intention, in order as far as possible to avoid expense to the 
institudon, to prepare as much of the work as practicable at home, and for 
that purpose he would take with him a few works on architecture; but 
that it would be necessary for him to spend some weeks in New York, 
and probably in Washington, to consult authorities, to which he had not 
access at home, to receive the necessary aid from Mr. Renwick, and to 
take steps for the preparation of the illustrations. 

The above resolutions, after deliberation, were adopted. 

And, on motion, tlie committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-FOURTH MEETING— April 11, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

The chairm.an laid before the committee the following letter : 

Darnestovstn, Montgomery County, Md., 

^1/^77^7, 1847. 

Dear Sir : Mr. Dixon was here yesterday, and made a superficial ex- 
amination of the quarries, but made no selection, as you informed me 
would be his purpose, in your letter to me dated the 3lst of March. He 
admitted, as I think must be apparent to any one, that stone of similar 
cliaracter with the specimen which he says the committee have adopted 
may be found in abundance for all your purposes. Indeed, upon exam.- 
ination we find it embraced in a much larger field than I had before ob- 
served, and 1 have no doubt it could be obtained to any extent that may be 
required. 

The quarries, from the characteristic position of the stone and the par- 
tial manner in which they have been worked, present a diflerent appear- 
ance from such as we commonly see ; but as an evidence of the facility 
with which they may be worked, there is a party now engaged in getting 
stone from them for the use of Mr. Berry, who has contracted to deliver 
the same in Washington for twenty cents a cubic foot; and I have no 
doubt Mr. Dixon could get his stone delivered much more readily for the 
same, as the quantity he would require would justify the contractor in 
v/orking the quarry to a much greater advantage. 



23] 



122 



I would only add that the kind of stone that I understand you have 
selected may be obtained here in any quantity you may require, and the 
difference in the expense of using it is a full justification for its selection. 
I have been induced to make this communication to guard you against 
any unfavorable impression Mr. Dixon may be induced to make, in which 
I feel justified by expressions he used when here. 

Yours, very respectfully, 

JOHN P. C. PETER. 
Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 

Chairman of the Building Committee Smithsonian Institution. 

Laid on the table. 

Mr. Owen, in connexion with the subject of the above letter, stated to 
the committee that he had written to the architect, Mr. Renwick, inform- 
ing him that the committee adhere to their resolution regarding the color 
and quality of building-material for the external walls, and look to him 
to see it strictly carried out. 

The chairman laid before the committee, from the ex-messenger, Me- 
Peak, the following letter : 

Washington, April 11, 1847. 

Sir : Believing that I can render good service to the committee in my 
capacity as messeno-er, both in attending in the office and overlooking the 
grounds of the institution, and removing nuisances, therefore I would re- 
spectfully offer my services to the committee at one dollar per day. 

Respectfully, 

WM. McPEAK. 
Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 

Chairman of the Building Committee Smithsonian Institution. 

Laid on the table. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-FIFTH MEETING— April 12, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Totten, Seaton, and Owen. 

Mr. Totten, having returned from Mexico, took his seat on the com- 
mittee. 

The chairman laid before the committee several specimens of building- 
stone, similar in color and quality to specimen No. 19 of Dr. Owen's re- 
port on the sandstones of the Potomac, from the quarries of Charles Vin- 
son, Seneca Mills; (see his letter to the building committee, page 42 of 
this journal.) The chairman stated that Dr. Owen had examined the 
specimens, and considered them equal to specimen No. 19. 

The journal of the building committee, contract with James Dixon & 
Co., and specifications and plan of foundations of the building, prepared 
by the architect, were submitted to Mr. Totten, and examined by him. 

Mr. Totten stated to the committee that the duration of his stay in 
Washino^ton was uncertain, and that he might be called upon to visit 
some of the fortifications of the United States in the course of two or 
three weeks. 



123 [ 23 ] 

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Reuwick be requested to return to Washington 
within a fortnight, so as to confer on the subject of the details of erection 
of the building with Mr. Totten. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-SIXTH MEETING— April 14, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

Mr. Seaton submitted to the committee the following letter from Captain 
Buckingham, whom he stated to be known to himself as having executed 
with faithfulness and ability, both for the city corporation and the gov- 
ernment, work of the same character as that for which he here proposes 
to contract: 

Washington, April 14, 1847. 

Sir: I have made a calculation of the expense of conducting the water 
from the Market square to the buildings of the Smithsonian Institution, 
on the mall. 

I will agree to furnish all the necessary material, and put down the 
pipes to said building, for six hundred and fifty dollars, and take the ne- 
cessary risk. I calculate that there are about 2,000 feet in all. 
Respectfully, your obedient servant, 

C. BUCKINGHAM. 
Wm. W. Seaton, Esq. 

Captain Buckingham appeared; and, on being questioned, informed 
the committee that his proposal was for a leaden pipe of inch-bore, and of 
the quality called " strong pipe 5" that he proposed to lay the pipe down 
not less than two feet under ground, and to cross the canal with a two- 
inch iron pipe, laid down below the bed of the canal. 
On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That a contract with Captain Buckingham be prepared, in 
accordance with the above offer; stipulating that the work be completed 
in one month from this date. 

The communication of William McPeak, laid on the table on the 11th 
inst,, being called up, it was 

Ordered, That William McPeak be re-engaged as messenger, to com- 
mence from the 7th inst., at six dollars per week. 

Mr. French, masonic Grand Master of the District of Columbia, ap- 
peared before the committee, and expressed, on behalf of the Grand Lodge 
of the District of Columbia, their willingness to assist in laying the cor- 
ner-stone of the Smithsonian Institution with masonic ceremonies. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolvf.d, That the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia be invited, 
in connexion with any other masonic lodges who may unite with them, 
to aid in laying the corner-stone of the Smithsonian InsUtution ; and 
that Saturday, the first day of May, be recommended as a suitable day for 

that purpose. . u n • i * 

Resolved, That Mr. Owen be a committee to wait upon the 1 resident 

of the United States and invite him, as head of the corporation, to lay the 



[23] 



124 



said foundation-stone ; and also to wait upon the Vice President of the 
United States and invite his presence, as Chancellor of the institution, lo 
deliver a brief address on said occasion. 

Resolved^ That Mr. Seaton be authorized to pay any incidental expenses 
that may be necessarily incurred on said occasion. 

Resolved, That the contractor be requested to prepare a suitable corner- 
stone. 

Mr. Owen expressed to the committee his intention — as Colonel Totten 
had returned, and a quorum could thus be obtained without him — of re- 
turning, within a few days, home to Indiana; and his regret that, in con- 
sequence, he would not be able to be present at the proposed ceremony. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-SEVENTH MEETING— April 15, 1S47. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

The chairman presented a contract with Captain Buckingham to con- 
vey water to the building site, which, in accordance with the resolution of 
yesterday, he had prepared and had submitted to Captain Buckingham 
and to Colonel Totten ; both of whom had signified their approbation of 
it, and Colonel Totten had signed it. 

It was approved and signed. It is as follows : 

This agreement, made the fifteenth day of AprH, 1847, between Caleb 
Buckingham, of the city of Washington, of the first part, and the Build- 
ing Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, of the second part, wit- 
nesseth : 

That for and in consideration of the sum of six hundred and fifty 
dollars, to be by the party of the second part paid to the party of the 
first part, as hereinafter provided, the said party of the first part agrees 
to furnish all the necessary materials, of the best quality, and all the ne- 
cessary work, to be done in the best and most substantial manner, to con- 
duct tlie water from the fire plug at the engine-house, in Market square, 
in the said city, to the building about to be erected for the Smithsonian 
Institution, on the mall, between 9th and 12th streets. And the party of 
the first part agrees, that he will lay down a leaden pipe of inch-bore, and 
of the quality called " strong pipe," at least two feet below the ground ; 
and he will furnish the same with a stop-cock of the best quality, at the 
end where the said fire plug is tapped; and also a hydrant cock of the 
best quality at the end of the pipe next to the building. And the said 
party of the first part further agrees that he will convey the water across 
the canal in an iron pipe of two-inch bore, and of the best quality ; which 
iron pipe shall be sunk below the bed of the canal. And the said party 
of the first part agrees, that he will conduct the said leaden pipe so as to 
terminate at any point, not more than fifty feet from the foundations of 
the building, that may be pointed out by the architect or superintendent 
of the institution. 

And the said party of the first part further agrees, that he will complete 
the laying of the said pipe, with its appurtenances, so that water can be 
used from the same one month from the date of this agreement. 

And the party of the second part agree, that so soon as the said work 
shall have been completed to the entire satisfaction of the architect or 
superintendent of the said institution, and the said architect or superin- 



125 [ 23 ] 

tendent shall have certified that fact to the parties i)[ the second part, the 
said parties of the second part will pay to the said parly of the first'part 
the above sum of six hundred and fifty dollars. In testimony whereof, 
the said party of the first part has hereunto set his hand and seal, and the 
said building committee, on behalf of the said institution, have hereunto 
subscribed their names, the day and year aforewritten. 

C. BUCKINGHAM, [l. s.] 

ROBERT DALE OWEN, 
J. G. TOTTEN, 
W. VV. SEATON, 

Building Committee. 

The chairman presented from Mr. Randolph Coyle, city surveyor, a 
chart of the grounds belonging to the institution, crossed with lines of 
equal levels marked at each crossing of one hundred feet. 

Ordered, That the above chart be preserved as a record of levels, by in- 
serting it in the journal of the committee. 

The chairman stated to the committee that he had waited upon the 
President, in accordance with the resolution of yesterdi.y, and expressed 
to him the desire of the committee that he v^^ould consent to lay the cor- 
ner-stone of the Smithsonian building ; and that he, the President, has 
expressed his willingness to do so. 

The chairman further informed the committee that the President stated 
to him that he (the President) Would order the attendance of the marine 
band on the occasion. 

The chairman stated to the committee that he had waited upon the Yice 
President, in acordance with a resolution passed yesterday, and that he 
(the Vice President) promised, if he could so arrange his business, to at- 
tend on the occasion of laying the foundation-stone of the Smithsonian 
building, and to deliver a brief address on that occasion. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-EIGHTH MEETING— April 16, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owgn. 

The letter of Mr. Joel Downer, carpenter, dated April 8th, and submit- 
ted to the committee at their twenty-second meeting, coming up for con- 
sideration, Mr. Owen submitted a contract which he had prepared in ac- 
cordance with the offer made by Mr. Downer for the erection of a tempo- 
rary fence around the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, and which 
he stated to the commiUee had been submitted to the superintendent and 
]Mr. Downer, and had been approved by them. 

The said contract was approved, and signed by the committee and by 
Mr. Downer, and is as follows: 

This agreeraen(, made the 16th of April, 1847, between Joel Downer, of 
the city of Washington, of the first part, and the Buildmg Committee 
of the Smithsonian Institution of the second part, witnesseth: 

That for and in consideration of the sum of four hundred dollars, to be 
by the party of the second part paid to the party of tlie first part, as here- 
inafter provided, the party of the first part agrees to fence m the lot or plat 



[23] 



126 



of land belonging to the said Smithsonian Institution, and situated on that 
portion of the mall which lies between 9th and 12th streets, containing 
nineteen acres, or thereabout; the said fence to be made in the most substan- 
tial and workmanlike manner, and to be completed in one month from the 
date of this agreement. And the said party of the first part agrees that the 
said fence shall be of sawed paling, of the best quality that comes to the 
Washington market, each paling to be about three inches wide, and to be 
nailed on the rails with three nailings, and six nails to each paling, and 
the palings not more than two and a half inches apart. 

And the said party of the first part further agrees, that the said fence 
shall have a bottom board averaging twelve inches in width, firmly nailed 
on, and the ground levelled up to the bottom of the same. 

And the said party of the first part further agrees that the said fence 
shall be from five feet eight inches to six feet high, and that the posts shall 
be well and securely set in the ground, and that the fence shall stand, as 
nearly as convenient, on the boundary of the said lot, except on the north 
side; on which north side the fence shall be placed fifteen feet north of the 
boundary-line of the land of the said institution. And the said party of 
the first part agrees that he will furnish all the materials whatever for the 
said fence: Provided, Jwioever, That the posts and rails now standing on 
] 2th street and on B street south may be used by the said party of the first 
part. And provided further, That in case the Commissioner of Public 
Buildings consent thereto, the posts and rails now standing on such por- 
tion of the mall as lies between 7th and 12th streets, and is not the prop- 
erty of the said institution, may also be used by the said party of the first 
part as part of the material of said fence. 

And the party of the first part further agrees that he will leave openings 
for gates in said fence, at such points as may be pointed out by the con- 
tractor or superintendent; but no gates are included in this contract. 

If there be not sufficient rails on the said lot between Tth and 12th 
streets, then the contractor, Mr. Dixon, will furnish the same to the party 
of the first part, as per annexed agreement. 

And the party of the second part agree, so soon as the said fence shall 
be completed to the full and entire satisfaction of the architect or superin- 
tendent of the Smithsonian Institution, and that fact shall have been cer- 
tified to the parties of the second part by the said architect or superintend- 
ent, that they, the said parties of the setond part, will pay to the party of 
the first part, in full for said fence and material, the sum of four hundred 
dollars. 

In testimony whereof, the said party of the first part has hereunto set 
his hand and seal, and the said parties of the second part, members of the 
said building committee, have hereunto, on behalf of the said Smithsonian 
Institution, subscribed their names the day and year afore written. 

JOEL DOWNER, [l- s.] 

ROBERT DALE OWEN, 
JOS. G. TOTTEN, 
W. W. SEATON, 

Building Committee. 



127 [ 23 ] 

Agreement with Mr. Dixon, referred to in the foregoing contract. 

If the old rails now standing on the mall between 7th and 12th streets 
be not sufficient to complete the fence aronnd the grounds of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, I hereby agree to furnish to Mr. Joel Downer;, at my 
own cost; a sufficient number of good rails to make up the deficiency. I 
also agree to have made, at my expense, not less than two gates, at con- 
venient points in said fence, to be hung on good and substantial gate-posts. 

JAMES DIXOX. 

Mr. John P. C. Peter appeared before the committee, and reiterated in 
presence of the contractor, Mr. Dixon, his (Mr. Peter's) complete assurance, 
as formerly expressed in his letter, (page 121,) that there was in his Bull 
run quarry a sufficiency of rock to erect the buildings of the Smithsonian 
Institution, of a tint not darker than No. 19 of the specimens appended to 
Dr. Owen's report on the Potomac sandstones; a portion being of lighter 
tint. He Avas informed that the committee adhered to their decision not to 
use for the external walls any material darker than No. 19, but they did 
not object to some portions of the building being of a lighter shade. He 
was further informed that the architect, Mr. Renwick, and perhaps one of 
the committee, Avould shortly visit Bull run quariy, for the sake of ascer- 
taining, by actual excavation and otherwise, whether the supply from the 
stratum in question was sufficient. 

And; on motion, the committee adjourned. 

TWENTY-NINTH MEETING— April 17, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the Corporation of the city of Washington, the Inde- 
pendent Order of Odd-Fellows, the volunteer companies, and the citizens 
generally, be invited to join in the ceremony of laying the foundation 
stone of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The chairman stated to the committee that he had consulted Mr. Dray- 
ton as to the actual size which the plates of the proposed volume on 
architecture might be made, so as to leave adequate margin ; and that it 
was found that they might be eleven inches by seven inches, (or, if neces- 
sary, eleven inches by seven inches and a half.) 

Mr. Owen staled to the committee that he had written to Mr. Renwick, 
instructing him to cause the perspective views of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution to be of that size. 

The chairman submitted an inscription, prepared by the superintendent, 
for a plate to be placed under the corner-stone of the Smithsonian build- 
ing. 

It was adopted, and is as follows : 

Inscriplien for the foundation-stone of the Smithsonian Institution. 

On the first day of May, 1S47, was laid, in the city of Washington, this 

foundation-stone of a building to be appropriated for the 

Smithsonian Institution ; 

FOUNDED BY BEaUEOT OF JAMES SMITHSON, OF GREAT BRITAIN. 

James K. Polk, President of the United States, 



[23] 



128 

Corporation, 



President of the United States. 
Vice President of the United States. 
Secretary of State. 
Secretary of the Treasury. 
Secretary of War. 
Secretary of the Navy. 
Postmaster General. 
Attorney General. 
Chief Justice. 
Connriissioner of Patents. 
Mayor of the city of Washington. 

Officers. 

George M. Dallas, Chancellor. 

W. W. Seaton, Chairman,") 

Jos. G. Totten, )' Executive Coramitiee. 

Robert Dale Owen, J 

Joseph Henry, Secretary. 

Charles C. Jewett, Assistayit Secretary. 

Board of Regejits. 

George M. Dallas, Vice President. 

Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice. 

W. W. Seaton, Mayor of the City. 

Lewis Cass, U. S. Senator. 

Sidney Breese, U. S. Senator. 

James A. Pearce, U. S. Senator. 

Robert Dale Owen, U. S. Representative. 

Wm. J. Hough, U. S. Representative. 

Henry W. Hiliiard, U. S. Representative. 

Rufus Choate, Massachusetts. 

Richard Rush, Pennsylvania. 

Gideon Hawley, New York. 

Wm. C. Preston, South Carolina. 

A. Dallas Bache, National Institute. 

Jos. G. Totten, National Institute. 

Building Committee. 

Robert Dale Owen, Chairman. 
Jos. G. Totten. 
W. W. Seaton. 

James Ren wick, jr., Architect. 

Robert Mills, Assiatant Architect and Superintendent 



129 [ 23 ] 

On motion of Mr, Owen, it was 
Resolved, Thai the superintendent be authorized to contrar«,t for the 
engraving of said plate, at an expense not exceeding fifteen dollars. 
And, on motion, the conunittee adjourned. 

THIRTIETH MEETING— April 19, 184T. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

'I'he chairman laid before the committee, from Dr. Owen, the following 
communication relative to details of arrangements in the laboratory : 

August 17, 1847. 

Gkntlemf.n: Several details connected with the arrangement of the 
laboratory of the Smithsonian Institution have recently occurred to me, 
or been suggested by conversation with gentlemen experienced in chemi- 
cal manipulation. 1 place them at your disposal, in case you may see fit 
to adopt all or any of them. 

I advise that the sliding doors between the laboratory and lecture-room 
be of sheet copper, blackened, so that they may serve as black boards for 
the purpose of illustration. 

Fnlleys in the ceihng of the laboratory, behind the lecturer^s table, will 
be found very convenient to suspend illustrations, so that they can be 
raised or lowered. Black boards of blackened sheet copper or iron, in 
nests or sets to slide one behind the other, will be found extremely useful 
to the lecturer, thus suspended by pulleys. 

The floor of the laboratory may advantageously be covered with thick 
sheet zinc. 

The roof of the hiboTatory is best covered with slate, as the rain-water 
caught from a slate roof is purer than from a metal one. 

The tops of all the tables in the laboratory, including the narrow tables 
below the shelving, should be of serpentine, and from one to two inches 
thick. Serpentine can be procured from Proctorsville, Vermont. Even 
the tops of the tables to hold the balances are best of this material. It 
is not acted upon by acids ; that is, the Vermont variety. 

The flues of the furnace over the hot air chambers should be of half- 
inch soapstone slabs. 

Tiiere should be in the basement, gasometers for hydrogen or car- 
buretted hydrogen — very convenient in organic analyses. 

The air should be admitted above the ashpits in the cellar; for if it be 
not, the ashes blow up with the draught. 

The furnace flues should all be smoothly plastered inside, espe'^ially 
those of furnaces to raise high temperature. For such furnaces Dr. Jack- 
son, of Boston, recommends flues tapering from below upwards, the larger 
flues being a little over 12 inches in the basement, and tapering to nine 
inches at top; and the area at top being somewhat greater than that 
of the flue throat next the furnace. He is of opinion that by this form of 
flue, the lateral currents of cool air that usually pass down chimneys are 
prevented, and thus all the cold air nuist pass through the furnace. I 
have tried the plan, and they draw well. 

It is unnecessary' to line the flues with fire brick, except at the throat 
leading from the furnace^ 

9 



[23 J 



130 



Every table, both in the laboratoiy and in the working laboratory, should 
be furnished with a blast pipe, proceeding either from a large bellows in the 
basement, or a small belloM'^s fixed under the table, or a condensing 
syringe. 

If, in the course of the erection of the Smithsonian laboratory, I can be 
of any service in furnishing further details, I shall do so with pleasure, i^ 
written to on the subject; and to avoid misapprehension, I may add, with- 
out any charge to the institution. 

I regret that my occupation as geologist of Wisconsin is likely to take 
me to so great a distance from your city, that I shall have little chance to 
aid by personal supervision, as otherwise I should have been happy to 
do. 

Respectfully submitted, by 

DAVID DALE OWEN. 

To the Building Committee 

of the iSmiihsoniaji histitution. 

On motion, the above communication was referred to the architect of 
the institution. 

Mr. Renwick, the architect, appeared before the committee, and stated 
that it was probable that plates of Grace church, and of Trinity, could be 
procured, if he (the architect) were authorized, by resolution of the com- 
mittee, to make application for the same. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, the following preamble and resolution were 
adopted : 

Whereas it has been represented to this committee that some members 
of the vestry of Trinity church, New York, have liberally expressed their 
willingness to furnish to the Smithsonian Institution a plate on steel or 
copper, containing a perspective view of Trinity church, to be printed in 
the forthcoming volume on Public Architecture, about to be published by 
this committee: Therefore, 

Resolved, That Mr. James Renwick, architect of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, be and he is hereby authorized, on behalf of the said institution, 
to state to the said vestry that if they decide to furnish said plate, it will be 
accompanied in the said volume with a description of Trinity church, 
as exhibiting the best example in the United States of the style of archi- 
tecture in wliich it is erected; and that the building committee, if thereto 
required by the above vestry, will furnish to them, at any time, as many 
impressions from the said plate as they may desire, at the cost of paper 
and printing. 

And, on motion, the following additional preamble and resolution were 
adopted : 

Whereas it has been represented to this committee that some members 
of the vestry of Grace church, New York, have liberally expressed their 
willingness to furnish to the Smithsonian Institution a plate on steel, 
containing a perspective view of Grace church, to be printed in the forth- 
coming volume on Public Architecture, about to be published by this com- 
mittee: Therefore, 

Resolved, That Mr. James Renwick, architect of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, be and he is hereby authorized, on behalf of the said institution, 
to state to the said vestry that if they decide to furnish said plate, it will 
be accompanied in the said volume with a description of Grace church, as 



131 [ 23 J 

exhibiting the best example in the United States of the style of architec- 
ture in which it is erected, and that the building committee, if thereto re- 
quired by the above vestry, will furnish to them, at any time, as manv im- 
pressions from said plate as tliey may desire, at the cost of paper and 
printing. 
And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

THTRTY-FIRST MEETING— April 20, 1S47. 
[Held at the office of Mr. Totten.] 

Present, Messrs. Totten, Seaton, and Owen. 

The architect appeared before the committee, and the various specifica- 
tions, especially those connected with the foundations of the building, 
having been revised, the following items in regard to the same were agreed 
to: 

That the concrete, as given in the specifications, is unnecessarily rich 
in mortar, and that about 14 parts of stone or brick fragments to 2 of dry 
cement, and one of lime paste, and eight of sand, is a suitable compo- 
sition. 

That the concrete under the foundation be laid in two steps, and in six- 
inch courses. 

That a bench mark be set up in some convenient spot in the vicinity of 
the building, for permanent reference. 

That when the foundations are excavated, they be tried with a ram- 
mer; and if any impression be produced, that the bottom be thoroughly 
rammed. 

That the architect ascertain from the contractor, and report to the com- 
mittee, what sum would be saved by substituting two-inch furring and 
lathing for the brick lining wall; the flues being sunk to a suflicient addi- 
tional depth in the wall. 

Th3.t a pattern of the jamb of one window, and of such other portions of 
the cut-work of the building as may be designated by the architect, be 
prepared as a sample; and, after being approved, be preserved for reference. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, the following preamble and resolution were 
adopted : 

Whereas it has been represented to this committee that one of the part- 
ners of the firm of Alexander T. Stewart &- Co.. of New York, has signi- 
fied the probability that the said firm might supply an elevation, on steel or 
copper, of the front of their marble store in Broadway, to insert in the vol- 
ume on Public Architecture about to be published by this committee: 
Therefore, 

Resolved, That Mr. James Renwick, architect of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, be and he is hereby authorized, on behalf of the said institu- 
tion, to state to Messrs. Stewart and Company, that if they decide to fur- 
nish said plate, it will be accompanied in the said volume with a drscrip 
tion of their store, as exhibiting the best example in the United States of 
street architecture in the modern Italian style; and that the building 
committee, if thereto required by Messrs. Stewart and Company, will 
furnish to them, at any time, as many impressions from the said plate as 
they may desire, at the cost of paper and printing. 

The committee then adjourned K> the building site belonging to the in- 



[23] 



132 



stitution, where they found the excavation for the foundations of the east 
or cliemical wing comaieuced, examined the character of the ground, as 
shown in a square trench dug for the purpose of ascertaining its character; 
and decided, that the foundations as specified in the contract were sutficient. 
The committee then returned to the City Hall ; and, on naotion, ad- 
journed. 

THIRTY-SECOND MEETING— April 21, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

Tlie chairman laid before the committee, from the president of the 
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, the following letter, received to- 
day : 

Frederick, April 20, 1817. 

Dear Sir : As promised in my former letter, I laid your proposal for 
the reduction of the toll on stone for the use of the Smithsonian institu- 
tion before the board of president and directors of the Cliesapeake and 
Ohio Canal Company, at their meeting on tlie lUtfi inst., and now ap- 
prize you that, whilst the board entertain the best wishes for the success 
of the great undertaking you have in charge, they yet feel constrained to 
decline making the reduction suasested. 

As 1 mentioned in my letter to you, the cost of transportation on the 
canal, estimating the toll by the perch, as is the practice on our canal, is 
at present much less than the rival improvement you allude to, and 1 hope 
this consideration will suffice to deiernniie you in tayor of the Seneca 
quarries. 

With great respect, yours, &.c., 

J. M. COALE, 
President of the Ckesaptuke and Ohio Canal (So. 
« 

On motion, the letter was referred to the contractors, Messrs. Dixon and 
Cameron. 

The chairman stated to the comuiittee that he should set out to-morrow 
morning lor the west ; tiut if, at any time during the summer, his presence 
should become necessary on the committee, he v/ould endeavor to return 
at as short a notice as possible. 

And, on motion, Xhe committee adjourned. 

THIRTY-THIRD MEETING— May 1, 1S47. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Totten. 

On motion, it was 

i^;.vo/r<c/, That William Beverly Randolph be appointed marshal-in- 
chief during the ceremonies of tne day. 

And then, this being lUe day appointed to lay the corner-stone of the 
building destined to be occupied as tlie Smithsonian insiiiunou, the com- 
mittee adjourned to join in its ceremonies ; of which the following de- 
scription is extracted from the National 1' telligencer: 

" Early in the morning the banners in front of the City Hall and at 
other public places gave mdiiaiion of a holyday and a day of public re- 
joicing. At nine o'clock the volunteer companies, under the command of 



133 [ 23 ] 

Captain Tucker and Lieutenant Tate, were formed at their respective 
parade grounds, near the City Hall. At about the same hour the cars 
arrived from Baltimore, bringing hither a large delegation of the Free Ma- 
sons of Baltimore and Philadelphia, to unite with their honored brethren 
in this District in the grand and interesting ceremonies of laying the 
foundation of an institution whose object is the ' increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men.' 

" At ten o'clock the members of the various lodges of Free and Ac- 
cepted Masons of the District united with the delegations from Maryland 
and Pennsylvania, and took the station assigned them in the order of the 
procession by the raarshal-in-chief Beverly Randolph, esq., who appeared, 
as most of the assistant marshals, in appropriate badges. The masonic 
part of the procession was unusually grand. We never witnessed so im- 
merons a turn out in this city of that ancient and respectable fraternity, 
who embrace in their body, persons of every condition in life and 
of all countries. The Philadelphia delegation, headed by Colonel James 
Page, Grand Master of Pennsylvania; the Biltimore delegation, headed by 
Charles Gilman, esq., Grand Master of Maryland ; and the Washington, 
Georgetown, and Alexandria delegations, headed by B. B. F^'rench, esq., 
the popular Grand Master of the District of Columbia; all these function- 
aries, and several other officials whose names we do not know, with the 
long line of members in full regalia, with their splendid banners and em- 
blems, presented a very interesting and imposing spectacle. 

" Not less so the very numerous and respectable body of the Indepen- 
dent Order of Odd Fellows, comprehending many of the lodges of this Dis- 
trict. The Odd F^'ellows, by their number, splendid regalia, banners, em- 
blems, excellent mtisic, and rich costume, added greatly to the imposing 
appearance of tlie interesting pageant. Dr. VV. B. Magruder, splendidly 
decorated, acted as grand marshal of the Odd Fellows, whose chief officers 
are Dr. Joseph Borrows, Grand Master, and Dr. Flodoardo Howard, Dep- 
uty Grand Master, who appeared in their proper places, supported by other 
prominent officers and members of the Order. 

" ^I'he procession (formed agreeably to the programme of the day) moved 
from the City Hall to the President's House about 11 o'clock. The mar- 
shal-in-chief and his aids were all on horseback, and wore white scarfs 
and blue rosettes. Three bands of music accompanied the procession, 
which was more than a mile in length. Of the music we cannot avoid 
saying, that it was excellent. The marine band is uniformly so. The 
national brass band, recently formed under Mr. Massoletti, played ad- 
mirably. Garcia's band, from Alexandria, attracted particular attention by 
its excellent performances. Tliis band, being uniformed, was taken by 
several persons for Deera's celebrated Baltimore band ; a great compli- 
ment, truly. 

" The column moved down 4^ street to Pennsylvania avenue, then up 
the avenue to 7th street, up 7fh to E, up E to llth,up llth to F, and 
thence on F to the presidential mansion, where the President, heads of 
departments, diplomatic corps, etc., were received into the line. The en- 
tire column then moved by Pennsylvania avenue and 12th street to the 
site of the Smithsonian Institution. 

" The military was then formed in line on the south side of the site, 
and the President, heads of departments, diplomatic corps. Regents, 
tnavor and corporation of Washington, (fcc, passed ni front, receiving 



[23] 



134 



their salute, and repaired to an elevated platform erected for the occasion 
near the corner-stone, and beautifully arched and decorated with festoons 
and wreaths of flowers and evergreens. 

" The column then opened to the right and left, and the masonic bodies, 
preceded by the Grand Master of the District of Columbia, passed up the 
line to the corner-sione. 

" The masonic ceremonies were then performed, for the details of which 
we are indebted to an official source, as follows: 

" Proclamation for silence having been made by the Grand Marshal — 

"13. B. French, esq., the Grand Master, accompanied by James Page, 
esq., the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, and Chas. 
Gilman, esq., the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Maryland, took 
his stand at the corner-stone, and. having announced the object of the 
meeting, called upon the Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge of Mary- 
land, brother McJilton, to address the Throne of Grace, which he did as 
follows : 

" PRAYER. 

"O Lord God of nations! There is none like thee in heaven nor in 
earth ; which keepeth covenant, and showeth mercy unto thy servants 
that walk before thee with all their hearts. Thou hast kept with thy 
people that which thou has promised them in all generations ; and that 
which thou hast spoken wirh thy mouth thou hast fulfilled with thy 
hand even unto this day. (2 Chron. vi, 14, 15.) As thoji didst with 
thine ancient people Israel, of small beginning, thou hast raised up a 
mighty nation in this western world. By thy power it has prospered ; 
by thine arm it has been begirt with strength ; by thine hand it has been 
overstrewn with blessings. 

" Few in number and feeble in strength our fathers came upon these 
shores. They hewed themselves a home in the wilderness, and sat down 
weary and toilworn amid the wilds of the forests. But they abode be- 
neath the shadow of the Almighty. (Ps. xci, 1.) Thou wast to them 
as rivers of water in a dry place, and as the shadow of a great rock in a 
weary land. (Isa. xxxii, 2.) Thougavest them rain in season. The land 
yielded her increase, and the trees of the field yielded their fruit. The 
threshing reached unto the vintage, and the vintage to the sowing time. 
They did eat their bread to the full, and dwelt in the land in. safety. 
When their enemies rose against them, thou wast the shield of their de- 
fence. In thy strength they had power to overcome, and their foes fled 
before them. Thou gavest them independence and peace, and madest 
them to lie down in safety, with none to make them afraid. Thou didst 
set up thy tabernacle among them ; thou didst break the bands of their 
yoke, and made them to go upright and free. (Lev. xxvi.) 

" Thy second Israel has been greatly blessed at thy hands. Thou hast 
given her plenty of corn and wine. Thou hast made peace in her bor- 
ders, and filled her with the finest of the wheat. Thou hast strength- 
ened the bars of her gates, and blessed her children within her. (Ps. 
cxlvii, 13, 14.) Thou hadst respect unto our fathers. Thou madest 
them to be fruitful, and didst multiply their prosperity. Thou didst estab- 
lish thy covenant with them. Under thy tostering care the land became 
the heritage of freedom, the asylum of the oppressed, the home of the 
stranger, a blessing to the nations. The gloomy clouds of ignorance and 



135 [ 23 J 

si^perstition are resting darkly upon other lands ; but the sun of enlight- 
enment and religion is beaming brilliantly upon ours. The shackles of 
civil bondage are binding the nations of the East, and they bow in their 
captivity to the despot's iron rule ; but no fetters of oppression bind the 
free of this favored land. Civil discord has reared its hydra head, and 
rent asunder the bond that united other States, but ours is unharmed, 
and no enemy appears that has power to sever it. The pestilence with 
fearful step has trodden other shores, and desolation fierce and fell has 
marked its direhil way ; but the rude form of the rovager has not reached 
our favored clime, and the trail of his burning footstep is not found upon 
our soil. The famine has marred the beauty of a sister land, and the 
shrill cry of the suffering still rises from the soil that is made desolate by 
its terrible tread ; but our barns are yet full of the harvest's yield. We 
have enough and to spare. While the oppressed can find a home of hap- 
piness in our wide domain of liberty, we have bread for the starving, and 
our ships arc bearing it to the sufferers beyond the seas. Truly the Lord 
has been good to us. He has remembered us in mercy; he has rewarded 
us beyond our deservinss. 

" And now, O Lord God of nations, that hast so highly favored and so 
greatly prospered the people of this land, hear thou in heaven, thy dwell- 
ing place, the cry and the prayer of thy servants when they pray before 
thee, that thy fatherly care and protection may be continued over us; that 
thy power may still be our prosperity, thine arm the girdle of our strength, 
thy hand the security of our blessing. 

^' Let thy mercy cover our sins; for we must acknowledge that, like lost 
sheep, we have erred and strayed from thy righteous ways. We have de- 
parted from the path of thy holy commandments, and we have done evil 
in thy sight. Give us true repentance for our many and grievous ofiences. 
Overrule the rebellion of our hearts, and the disobedience of our lives, by 
the interposition of thy abounding mercy, and let not our guilt be vi.'^ited 
in merited vengeance upon us. 

^' May we never, either in word or deed, deny the Lord, nor neglect his 
sacred worship. But may his blessed name, his doctrine and worship, be 
so inwoven with our institutions of freedom, that the names of American 
and Christian may ever be one and inseparable. As a nation, as well as 
individuals, may we spurn the creeds of infidelity, and in the acknowl- 
edgment of the Divine authority supplicate the overruling providence of 
God, remembering always that it is He that maketh us to differ from oth- 
ers, and that crowneth us with mercy and loving kindness. 

'' Grant us wisdom, and purity, and integrity of purpose, that we may 
preserve unhurt the inheritance of freedom that our departed sires have be- 
queathed us. May it be nothing impaired, nothing dimmed, but strength- 
ened and brightened by our having used it and enjoyed its blessings. And 
may we deliver it to the succeeding generation as spotless as we received 
it; as beautiful, as rich a treasure, as it came to us, drenched in the blood 
and crowned with the victorious bays of two fierce ensanguined wars. 

" Li the day of battle thou hast been our defence, and our enemies have 
not triumphed over us. In the face of our foes thou hast ' redeemed us 
from the swoid,' (Job, v. 20,) and no weapon formed against us has pros^- 
pered. So be it ever, when the hand of dishonor shall assail us, or the rod 
of the oppressor be uplifted to our hurt. 

^' In peace may we possess our territory. Do thou make the shout and 



[23] 



136 



the noise of the battle to cease from our shores, and may friendship, and 
love, and righteousness prevail. Make us to know that wisdom is better 
than weapons of war, and a peaceful heritage than much spoil. May the 
spear of the warrior be speedily exchanged for the plough and the pruning- 
hook, and the dread thunder of batde for the shout of thanksgiving to 
God. 

^^ Guide us ever in the choice of our rulers, that the wisdom and virtue of 
the nation may appear in the characters and deeds of those who may be 
honored with majesterial distinctions. May the praise which is sounded 
by thy Church be echoed from the high places of the republic, and re- 
echoed from the multitudes of the people, until, like the rushing of many 
waters, the voice shall go forth proclaiming the Lord Onmipotent to be our * 
God. And in the pursuits of our liA^es, in the expressions of our lips, and 
in our daily worship, may we prove that we know no other God but him. 

'' With thy favor we beseech thee to behold and bless thy servant the 
President of the United States, and all others in authority, and so replen- 
ish them with the grace of thy holy spirit, that they may always incline 
to thy will and walk in thy way. Teach thou our Senators wisdom, that 
they may establish sueh laws as are wholesome and good. Direct thou 
the minds of our judges, that they may decree justice, and that their judg- 
ments may be rendered with equity. Imbue the people with a spirit of 
patriotic devotion, and enlighten them with heavenly wisdom, that they 
may bo zealous of their country's honor, and exercise with prudence the 
fearful trust of freemen which is comniitted into their hands. Make us a 
people fearing thee and honoring thy most holy name; loving each other 
as brethren, and living for the good of mankind. 

" We invoke thy blessing upon this present undertaking of thy servants. 
Grant that the st'-ncture here commenced under the eye, and, we trust, by 
the direction of thy Providence, may be roared up in thy name, and re- 
dound to thy glory. May the building here to be erected as a depository 
of the curious works of art and nature, and emblems of national distinc- 
tion, be more than sntlicient for this worthy and honorable purpose. May 
it become a monument of usefulness to us as a nation, and a matter of 
admiration to the nations of the world. In the deposite of national sym- 
bols, may it be a central point of peace and friendship for the kingdoms 
and governments of the earth. And may the nations which shall be rep- 
resented in its halls find themselves in union, firmly leagued for the en- 
couragement of national prosperity, the promotionof art and intelligence, 
and the increase of human happiness. May it be as a central sun of sci- 
ence, about which systems may revolve, and from which light and knowl- 
edge may be reflected throughout every clime and kingdom of the globe. 
And, in the accomplishment of these greai and important results, may the 
blessings of the nations follow the memory of the projector, and America 
become the almoner of a bounty whose benefits siiall not cease to flow 
until time shall be no more. 

" In all our civil and domestic relations may we remember our religious 
duties, and contribute of our means and services and characters to the in- 
crease of thy Church, and the advancement of thy glory; that we may be 
a people truly serving thee, honoring thy name in our vralks and works of 
righteousness, and in the possession of happiness under thy smiles and. 
favor. 

" Let thy priests, O Lord, be clothed with righteousness, and thy saints 



137 [ 23 ] 

rejoice in goodness. (2 Chron. vi, 41.) Let thy way be known in all 
the earth, thy saving health among all nations. 

''Grant that the course of tliis world may be so peaceably ordered by thv 
governance, that thy Cyhurch may joyfully serve thee in all godly quiet- 
ness ; that thy people may walk in the ways of truth and peace, and at 
last he numbered with thy saints in glory everlasting. 

" Hearken, O Lord God, we beseech thee, to the prayers and supplica- 
tions which we have now presented before thee. And let it be tliy good 
pleasure to grant us our requests, whicli we offer in ttie name and through 
the merits of thy son Jesus, and our Lord, to whom, with thee and the. 
Holy Ghost, be all honor and glory: world without end. Amen. 

" There was then deposited in a cavity in the corner-stone a leaden 
box, containing the following articles, viz: 

" The gold and silver coins of the United States; report of the Com- 
mittee on Organization; Constitution of the United States; the New Tes- 
tament; Declaration of Independence; Congressional Directory for 1S47; 
bulletins of the National Institute; report of the first National Fair at 
Washington; report of the United States agent appointed to receive the 
legacy of James Smithson ; medal portrait of James Smithson ; reports of 
the Commissioner of Patents; journal of the proceedings of the Board of 
Regents, 1846; an engraved plate, with the following inscription: 

" On the 1st day of May, 1847, was laid, in the city of Washington, this 

" foundation-stone of a building to be appropriated 

" for the Smithsonian Institution; 

"FOUNDED BY EEaUEST OF JAMES SMITHSON, OF GREAT BRITAIN. 
" James K. Polk, President of the United States. 

" Coriooration. 

'■'• President of the United States. 

'' Vice President of the United States. 

'' Secretary of War. 

" Secretary of the Treasury. 

" Secretary of State. 

" Secretary of the Navy. 

" Postmaster General. 

'■'■ Attorney General. 

'■'■ Chief Justice. 

'•'■ Commissioner of Patents. 

'' Mayor of the city of Washington. 

'■'■ Board of RegfAits. 

" George M. Dallas, Vice President. 

" Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice. 

" W. W. Seaton, Mayor of the City. 

"Lewis Cass, United States Senator. 

" James A. Pearce, United States Senator. 

"Robert Dale Owen, United States Representative. 

" William J. Hough, United States Representative. 

" Henry W. Hilliard, United States Representative. 



[23] 



138 



'^ Rufiis Choate, Massachusetts. 

'^'Kichard Rush, Pennsylvania. 

" Gideon Hawley, New York. 

" WilUam C. Preston, South CaroHna. 

" A. Dallas Bache, National Institute. 

" Joseph G. Totten, National Institute. 

"OJJicers. 

" George M. DallaS; Chancellor. 

" W. W. Seaton, 1 

"Joseph G. Totten, >Eiecuiive Commiltee. 

'■'■ Robert Dale Owen, ) 

"Robert Dale Owen, S 

"Joseph G. Totten, \- Building Committee. 

"William W. Seaton,) 

" Joseph Henry, Secretary. 

" C. C. Jewett, Assistant Secretary. 

"James Renwick, jr., Arcliitect. 

" Robert Mills, Assist'int Architect and Superintendent. 

" James Dixon and Gilbert Cameron, Contractors. 

" The address of the Chancellor of the institution on laying the corner- 
stone; astronomical observations made at the National Observatory; a copy 
of the Directory of the city; the city newspapers of the day. 

" There was also deposited in the same cavity, by the Free Masons, a 
leaden casket containing the following articles, viz: 

"An elegant copy of the Holy Bible, presented by the Rev. Charles A. 
Davis, on behalf of the Bible Society of Washington; a stereotype page of 
Bancroft's History of the United States; Constitution of the Grand Lodge 
of the District of Columbia; an impression of its seal in metal; a copy of 
its proceedings for 1846; a silver plate, inscribed with the names of the 
Grand and sul)ordinate lodges of the District. 

"The Grand Master then applied the square, level, and plumb, and 
pronounced the stone properly squared, duly laid, true and trusty. 

" He then proceeded to place upon the stone the corn, wine, and oil, 
preceding this ceremony by an appropriate explanation of their symbolic 
meaning, conchiding his remarks by the following quotation from the 
venerable Harris: 'Wherefore, brethren, do you carry corn, wine, and 
oil in your procession, but to remind you that, in the pilgrimage of hu- 
man life, you are to impart a portion of your bread to feed the hungry, to 
send a cup of your wine to cheer the sorrowful, and pour the healing oil 
of your consolation into the wounds which sickness hath made in the 
bodies or affliction rent in the hearts of your fellow-travellers.' 

" Upon pouring the corn upon the stone, the Grand Master said: ' I do 
this, expressing a hope that (\\% hearts of those who are charged with car- 
rying into effect the intentions of the generous donor whose legacy has 
establislied the Smithsonian Institution, may be strengthened in the per- 
formance of all their duties.' In pouring thereon the u-me, the Grand 
Master said: ' May the Regents of this institution, and all connected there- 
with, be cheered on ward and rejoice in the success of all their measures 
connected with the erection of this building and with tiie government of 



139 [ 23 ] 

the institution.' In pouring the oil upon the stone, he said: ' May har- 
mony, peace, and brotherly love prevail among all connected with the 
Smithsonian Institution, and may they witness the placing of the cap- 
stone of the complete edifice under circumstances as propitious as those 
which attend the present ceremonies.' 

'' The Grand Master then informed the assembled multitude that he held 
in his hand the identical gavel used by the immortal VVashmgton in con- 
ducting the masonic ceremonies upon laying the corner-stone of the Capi- 
tol of these United States — this happy and glorious Union, which had now 
so greatly extended, and was still extending, so that no man could f<)resee 
its magnitude or its power. He also stated that he had the honor then to 
wear an apron worn upon the same occasion by the Father of his Country, 
which was presented to Washington by the Grand Lodge of France, 
through that great and good patriot and mason. General Lafayette. This 
apron, he said, had been in possession of Mount Nebo Lodge, of Shep- 
herdstown, Virginia, for many years, and that that lodge had kindly dele- 
gated a brother, S. McEIroy, esq., to bear the apron to this city, and to 
present it to the Grand Lodge, with a request that it be worn by the 
Grand Master on this occasion, which he had done at the meeting of this 
morning. 

" 'J'he Grand Master then gave three raps upon the stone with the 
gavel of Washington, the masonic brethren present gave the grand ma- 
sonic honors, and the masonic ceremonies were concluded. 

" Mr. Dallas, Sne Chancellor of the Board of Regents, then rose and de- 
livered the following 

" ADDRESS. 

'■'■ Friends and fellow-citizens : It has been deemed proper, that, at a 
ceremony so interesting as the present to the Smithsonian Institution, its 
chief officer should make to you a few general remarks explanatory of its 
origin, its purposes, its plans, and its prospects. Let me, therefore, ask 
your attention while I undertake that duty. 

"The Congress of the United States, by an act passed on the lOih of 
August last, organized ' an establiskment,'' through the instrumentality of 
which to apply faithfully to its directed objects a legacy of five hundred 
thousand dollars, received by our government under the will of a philo- 
sophic and benevolent Englishman. This ' astabliskment'' is composed 
of our highest public fuctionaries for the time being: the President, the 
Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the Heads of the six Executive 
Departments, with the Commissioner of the Patent Office and the Mayor 
of Washington; and, as the active council of management, a board is 
created of fifteen, known in the act by the scholastic name of ' Regents,' 
one fifth of them chosen by the Senate, another fifth by the House of 
Representatives, and of the remainder, two-fifths, by the joint action of 
both legislative chambers, it is to accommodate this imposing agency, 
to give it permanent and suitable means with which to effectuate iis im- 
portant and various purposes, and to shelter as well as exhibit its col- 
lections and property, that Congress enjoined to be erected, 'of plain 
and durable material and structure, without unnecessary ornament,' the 
edifice whose corner-stone you have seen deposited. 

"James Smithson, a Londoner born, and claiming to be the son of a 



[ 23 ] 140 

distinguished nobleman, gave his life exclusively to intellectual pursuits, 
and espe^'ially to researches in physical and experimental science. Sup- 
plied with larger means than his v/ants required, and steadily practising 
a strict scheme of personal economy, he amassed considerable fortune. He 
died at Genoa in 1829, and, by his will, bequeathed his accunnilated 
property to this Union — a country that, notwithstanding his frequent 
change of abode, he had never visited, whose citizens he had never as- 
sociated with, but in whose inevitable future he saw the most solid ground 
on which to cast the anchor of his fame. This legacy, for some time the 
subject of litigation in the British Court of Chancery, was finally secured, 
brought over, and received into the treasury of the United States on the 
Istot September, 1838. Its exact amount, when deposited, was five hun- 
dred and fifteen thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars. 

"The legacy was accompanied Dy a declaration of its design; and the 
execution of that design has been assumed, as well by an acceptance of 
the mor^ey, as by several open and ftrmal avowals by our government. 
It was to '-found an inMitulioti at Was km a ton for the increase and diffu- 
sion, of knovhdse anionor wen ;' to found, not an academy, not a college, 
not a university, but something less technical and precise, something 
whose import and circuit should be bolder and more comprehensive ; an 
institution not merely fir disseminating, spreading, teaching knowledge, 
but also, and foremost, for creating, originating, increasing it. Whereat? 
In a city whose name recalls the wisest, purest, and noblest spirit 
of the freest, newest, and broadest land. And amon^ whom ? Not a 
chosen or designated class — not the followers of a particular sage or sect — 
not the favorites of fortune, nor the lifted of rank ; but among men — men 
of every condition, of every school, of every faith, of every nativity. 
Men! It was with a purpose thus elevated and expansive, thus as well 
distinct as undiscritninating, that James Sniithson committed his Vv'^ealth 
to the guardianship of the American republic. Whatever may be the 
difference of opinion as to the comparative merits of the many modes of 
practically realizing this purpose, it is quite certain that the good faith 
and best exertions of our country are solemnly pledged to its fulfilment. 
We must try it — try it sincerely, ind' fatigably, trnstworthily — try it 
through all the diversified and promising channels — try it with no narrow 
exclusiveness of choice or prejudice as to systems, sciences, or arts Tiie 
intention of the benefa''.tor was to make his endowment a perennial foun- 
tain of wisdom, as well practical as theoretic or imaginative, whose living 
waters should be unceasingly distributed to advance the intelligence, 
comfort, and happiness of hiuuan beings. 

" When, at no distant day, I trust, it shall be seen that within the walls 
of this building the trutlis of nature are forced by perseverina: researches 
from their hidden recesses, mingled with the stock already hoarded by 
genius and industry, and thence profusely scattered, by gratuitous lectures 
or publications, for the benefit of all ; when it shall be seen, that here 
universal science finds food, implements, and a tribune — art her spring to 
invention, her studio, and her models ; and both shall have throngs of 
disciples from the ranksof our people, emulous for enlightenment or eager 
to assist — then the condition of our legacy will have been performed, and 
the wide philanthrophy of Smithson have achieved its aim! 

" As a beginning to the plan hx ellecting a result so interesting, Con- 
gress have deemed and declared the erection of a large and commodious 



141 [23] 

edifice indispensable. Tlie Board of Regents were, by tlie legislative 
charter, instructed to select, as soon as they were organized, a site, and 
to cause a structure to be reared, and that structure to make ' of sulilcient 
size, and with suitable rooms or halls for the reception and arrangement, 
upon a liberal scale,' j^Vs^, of objects of natural history, including a geologi- 
cal and mineralogical cabinet; second, of a chemical laboratory; tliird, 
of a library; fourth, of a gallery of oxi; fifth, of the necessary lectui'e-rooms; 
and, sixth, of the national cabinet of curiosities and relics, now poorly and 
partially accommodated in the upper story of the Patent OfRce. It is the 
first duty, of the Regents to obey tlie unequivocal behests of Congress, to 
carry them out faithfully on the scale and in the spirit they obviously im- 
port; and to let their measures flow, not from their own discretion, but 
from the provisions of the law which they are empowered to execute. I 
say tills in explanation of the dimensions wliich the building must neces- 
sarily take. It is consecrated to the various and boundless objects that 
tend to 'increase and diffuse knowledge.' It is designed to participate, 
as a satellite, in the duration and march of our glorious Union, to be the 
depository of all the rare productions of nature and art which centuries 
may gather, and to throw open halls sufficiently ample to contain the 
knowledge-seeking masses of our countrymen. Congress have stamped 
this character upon it, by prescribing and appropriating its vast interior com- 
partments, and by other positive expressions of their will. 

" To conform strictly to instruction, and yet keep within the pecuniary 
limits assigned to them; to provide the space called for, and yet avoid even 
the appearance of unnecessary expansion; to combine solidity with archi- 
tectural beauty, and wholesome ventilation, and to satisfy at once true 
taste and stern economy by banishing useless embellishment, were aims 
always cona-olling and uppermost with the Regents. How tar they have 
succeeded, time will show, and mustbelelt to tiie candor of public opinion. 
Not doubting that the experienced and reliable contractors for the work 
will accompUsh their undertaking, in all its details, with exactitude and 
fidelity, I may venture to give you an anticipation in brief of the building 
whose first stone is now laid. 

"Its exterior will present a specimen of the style of architecture that pre- 
vailed some seven centuries ago, chiefly in Germany, Normandy, and south- 
ern Kurope, which preceded the Gothic, and continues to recommend it- 
self, for structures like this, to the most enlightened judgment. It is 
known as the Norman-, or, more strictly speaking, the Lombard style. It 
harmonizes alike with the extent, the grave uses, and the massive strength 
of the edifice; it exacts a certain variety in the forms of its parts; and it 
authorizes any additions that convenience may require, no matter how 
seemingly irregular they may be. 

" It will extend, east and west, an entire front of four hundred and 
twenty-six feet, having a central building of fifty by two hundred feet in 
the clear hiside, v/ith two towers; two wings of unequal fronts, the east 
one forty-five by seventy five feet in the clear inside, with a vestibule and 
porch attached to it; the west one thirty- four by sixty-five feet in the clear 
inside, with a northern semicircular projection. These wings will be con- 
nected with the central building by two ranges sixty feet in length in the 
clear inside. It will have a central rear tower, and other towers of diffe- 
rent heights, sizes, and characters, two of them placed in the wings. All 
these numerous towers are essential to arrangements within, as flues, 



[23] 



142 



I 



I 



Stairways, ventilators, and detached rooms; and are of difierent heights, 
varying from sixty to one hundred and fifty feet, 

" The first story of the central building will be occupied by the hbrar)'-, 
the chief lecture-room, and the principal hall; the second stoiy by the 
museum. The laboratory and chemical lecture-room will occupy the east 
wing; the gallery of art the western wing and western connecting range. 
The chosen material is a freestone of a lilac-gray color, drawn from a 
quarry on the banks of the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, near Seneca creek, 
and twenty three miles from this spot, 

" It is gratifying to me to be able to accompany this imperfect sketch 
with the statement, that the entire pile is to be finished, and furnished, and 
fitted up, for a sum less, by thirty-seven thousand dollars, than the one 
set apart by Congress as applicable to the building alone. 

" Hov/ best to put this Smithsonian Institution, in progress; to give it 
definite character and views; to shape its line of march as Congress has 
either ordered or intimated that it should be, and to let the testamentary 
purpose be apparent in all its operations, was a task on which ability and 
much consultation have been expended. There were, I may almost say, 
necessarily, and of. course there were on this cardinal point, great diver- 
sities of sentiment and construction, as there had been during the mas- 
terly debates which prefaced the passage of the law. Wliat constituted 
' knotoledge,^ in the sense of Smithson's bequest? In what manner shall 
its 'increase^ be provided for? By what method shall its ^diffusion.' 
be sought ? Should the developments of the laboratory be more engrossing 
than the stored resources of the library ? Will oral expositions or printed 
treatises be preferable? Are permanent professorships to be systematized. 
or temporary teachers to be enlisted? In fine, what should be the instru- 
ments and the orbit of an establishment whence the light of knoAvledge 
was required constantly to radiate among men? 

'' They to whom was confided the resolution of these problems into prac- 
tical measures, have felt the weight and delicacy of their mission. They 
began by profoimdly studying the subject in its several aspects. They 
cherished with ardor, and discussed with freedom, their respective projects. 
The conflicts of upright minds, however, rarely fail to end in mutual con- 
cession and compromise; and thus scarcely a single measure was adopted 
except by unaninrous concurrence. The Regents have submitted their 
labors and conclusions to the country — the report of their proceedings was 
duly made for legislative supervision; and maj'" they not confidently hope 
for (what they know nothing of theirs can succeed without) the co-opera- 
tion and sympathy of the American people? 

'' There are some results to be anticipated from the success of the institu- 
tion, which, though not as obvious as others, are nevertheless such as no 
sound American heart can wholly disregard, and which it may not be mis- 
placed to glance at. That we shall fulfill, in the presence of ^vatchful 
civilization, an admitted obligation, and that the common mind of our 
country, on which the permanency of its liberties so closely depends, will 
be exalted and invigorated, are considerations abundantly strong to rally 
us all to the manly effort. No greater shame, and no greater loss can 
readily be incurred, than Avould be consequent on ignoble failure. But 
may it not be justly said, that the mild and genial intiuence of this estab- 
lishment will strengthen and tighten the cords of our Union, and give to 
the capital of that Union a new charm, with greater stability? 



143 [ 23 ] 

" The Smithsonian design is, as I have already suggested, a pecuHar one. 
It cannot, as a scene of educational training, have any pretensions or pro- 
voke any jealousies. It is no rival of the many admirable schools which 
adorn the respective States, and can in no manner intrude upon their 
spheres of action. Yet it will be a factory and a storehouse of knowledge, 
accessible to all the agents of this vast confederacy — its executive, legisla- 
tive, judicial, civil, military, foreign and domestic agents. It will be the 
recipient, too, of such fruits of the labors, and such acquisitions of the 
enterprise and travels of these agents, as may contribute to illustrate, and 
explain, and facilitate the public service, or to give precision and vigor to 
its operations of every kind. As a resource and a sanctuary for intellect, 
the institution can hardly fail to become an object of patriotic pride and 
attachment, and must be felt as a persuasive inducement to preserve invi- 
olate the constitution, with whose fate its own is identified. 

" I will not dwell upon its special claim to the fostering kindness and hos- 
pitality of the Metropolis. Her citizens doubtless appreciate that justly. 
By designating Washington for its local habitation, the generous testator 
has summoned the intelligence, the courtesy, and the philanthropy of her 
inhabitants, as auxiliaries to his beneficent project. Already it has added 
to her social scene a fixed star, whose beams pervade the scientific world; 
and, ere long, this rising temple, consecrated to the highest of human pur- 
suits, KNOWLEDGE, will givo frcsli attraction and firmness to her destiny. 

^' Mr. Dallas having concluded, a national salute was fired by the Colum- 
bian artillery, while the band played a national air. 

" The benediction was then pronounced by the Rev. F. S. Evans, and 
thus were concluded the ceremonies of the day, which were witnessed by 
at least six or seven thousand persons." 

THIRTY-FOURTH MEETING— May 25, 1S4T. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Totten. 

Mr. O. Buckingham appeared before the committee, and represented that, 
in laying the water pipe from the five plug on the Market square to the site 
of the Smithsonian building, according to his contract, (see page 124,) he 
had incurred (o\-er the amount of |650, as agreed on in that contract) an 
excess of expenditure which, including the sum of $S4 for his personal 
services, amounted to |138 23; as shown in the following specification of 
items : 

Building- Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, 

May is, 1S47. To C. Bucldngliam. 

To lead pipe to conduct water from avenue to the site of build- 
ing, 8,090 lbs., at G^ cents - - - - $<5b6 IS 
107 lbs. of lead pipe, at 7i cents - - - - '-> JO 
156 lbs. of lead pipe, at 7^ cents - - - " . ].^ j.? 
iron pipe across the canal - - - - " qa in 
plumber's bill for making joints - - - " on nn 
excavation and filling in same - - - " i ^ no 
one hand, ten days, at $1 50 - - - " |^ JJ^ 
one laborer, ten days, at ij^l - - " - lU UU 



[23] 



i44 



To two stop cocks 

boxes in pipe at canal, and box at end 
a cylinder for cock at Market square 
rekiying pavement on 9th street and market 
my own services 28 days, at $3 



$5 50 
3 00 

2 50 

2 00 

84 00 


788 23 
650 00 


138 23 



The amount of $138 23 Mr. Buckingham asked to be allowed, over and 
above the amount in the contract agreed to be paid to him. 

Mr. Buckingliam further alleged, in support of his request, that he had 
laid down extra strong pipe, instead of strong pipe, as by his contract he 
was alone bound to lay — say about 1,800 lbs. weight of pipe beyond the 
contract, at 6^ cents, making .sllT; that when he received ihis pipe he 
had called on one of the committee, (Mr. Seaton,) and informed him that 
he proposed to return it, as his loss in so doing would have been but ,s50, 
in the shape of freight; but was dissuaded by Mr. Seaton from so doing. 

The coimuiltee declined acting upon Mr. Buckingham's application, 
but infonnod Mr. B. that they would lay the case befire the Board of 
Regents, 

The conniiiiiee instrticted Mr. Seaton to pay over to Mr. Buckinghatn 
the auiiHUit of his coufract, to wit, 1^650 ; wliich was acconJiuglv done. 

Mr. Seaton stated to the committee, that on the 22d iust. Mr. Downer, 
contractor lor the erection of the fence enclosing the Smithsonian lot, (see 
page V.i'i.) had represented to him (Mr. S.) that the said fence would cost 
him much more tiian the sum of ,'|;4()0, for which he contracted to erect 
it; and that he (Mr. l)(nvuer) offered to relinquish to the committee all 
the work he had already put on the fence ; they releasing him from the 
contract and paying him the cost of the materials purchased. 

The coiinnitteo, after consultation, decided that it was inexpedient 
either to release Mr. Downer from his contract, or to make him any allow- 
ance beyond the sum in that contract specified to be paid for the work. 
And tfie sup' riritendeut was instructed to inform Mr. Downer what had 
been the dei-ision of tlie committee in his case, and in that of Mr, Buck- 
ingham. 

x\Ir. Seaton submitted to the board the following letter, which had been 
forwarded by Mr. Owen from Indiana, with a request that it be spread on 
the journal of the committee : 

Office of New Jersey R. R. and Trans. Co., 

New York, April 8, 1847. 
Dear Sir: I am instructed hj the directors of the New Jersey Railroad 
and Transportation Coyipany to inform you, that it is not in their power 
to give a favoraLile reply to your application for reduced rates of fare over 
their road, m fivor of Mr. Renwick, as the architect of the Smithsonian 
Institution. The board, as I mentioned to you, do not feel themselves 
authorized to act in favor of applications in cases where there may be a 



145 [ 23 ] 

diversity of opinions and interests among the stockholders whom they 
represent, 

I am, respectfully, yours, 

ROBERT SCHUYLER, 

Vice President. 
Hon. R. D. Owen, 

New Harmofii/, Indiana. 
And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

THIRTY FIFTH MEETING— July 23, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Totten. 

iVIr. Seaton submitted from one of the contractors the following letter: 

Washington, June 1, 1847. 
Gentlemen: Hy an agreement between Mr. Cameron, my present 
partner, and myself, I have determined (provided it be agreeable to you) 
to retire from the firm of Dixon and Cameron, as contractors of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. I am anxious to be released from all responsibility, 
provided the building committee should d-eem proper to release me. 

Mr. Cameron offers Mr. Horace Butler, of New York, as his security for 
the completion of the building, should the committee deem the same 
sufficient. 

Yours, very respectfully, 

JAMES DIXON. 
To the Building Committee 

of the ISmitlisonian Institntioji . 

This letter was, without any action upon it, on motion, laid on the 
table. 

Mr. Seaton submitted from Mr. Cameron, one of the contractors, the 
following letter : 

July 10, 1847. 

Gentlemen : In consequence of the withdrawal of Mr. Dixon from the 
contract for erecting the Smithsonian building under your charge, which 
leaves me wholly dependent on my own funds to fulfil the contract which 
we jointly entered into with your honorable body, I would respectfully 
solicit of the committee the privilege of being paid once a month on my 
contract, with the architect's certificate, in place of every two months. 
My expenses for work, and also for materials, and heavy outlay at the 
Seneca quarries, and payments to my men once every two weeks, absorb 
my means very fast. 

Praying you, gentlemen, to take these things into your consideration, I 
beg to add, that the compliance of the committee with this, my respectful 
request, will much obliare your obedient and humble servant, 

^ GILBERT CAMERON. 

To the Building Committee 

of the Smithsonian Institution. 

10 



[23] 



146 



After consultation with the architect, it was 

Ordered, That payments be hereafter made to the contractor monthly, 
upon the architect's estimate, and with reduction of fifteen per cent, as 
heretofore. 

Mr. Seaton stated to the committee, that on examining the fence around 
the Smitlisonian lot, though executed according to contract, he believed it 
would be insecure and exposed to frequent injury without a stout top- 
rail; and he submitted, on this subject, from the architect, the following: 

July 22, 1847. 

Dear Sir : Mr. Carr has made an estimate for putting a 3 x H ^^^^^ 
top- rail on the fence, with two wrought iron nails to each paling, and says 
that it can be done for sixty dollars. 

Will you be so kind as to let me know by McPeak whether he shall 
proceed with it? 

Very truly and respectfully yours, 

JAMES RENVYICK, Jr. 
W. W. Seaton, Esq., 

Member of Building Cornmittee. 

On motion, it was 

Resolved, That the architect be authorized to contract for the addition 
of a 3 X ^^ inch top-rail, to be firmly nailed to the fence, at a cost not 
exceeding sixty dollars. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was further 

Resolved, That the architect be authorized to make a contract for white- 
washing the fence around the lot, at an expense not exceeding sixty dol- 
lars. 

Mr. Seaton submitted, on the sul»ject of a resolution heretofore passed 
by the Committee, (page 12U,) the following letters, which he received 
from Mr. Owen : 

SUYDENHAM, NEAR PHILADELPHIA, 

May 20, 1S4T. 

My Dear Sir : Referring to my former letter, I now enclose you the 
answer from the Girard College, through their architect, Mr. Walter, 
which would have been transmitted immediately, but that I was from 
home when it arrived. 1 regret its nature, and endeavored by personal 
exertions to render it otherwise, but without success. 

The engraving of the college, to which Mr. Walter alludes in no 
commendatory terms, I will leave with my son, 98 South t'ourth street, 
Pliiladelplua, (Benjamin Rush,) subject to your order at any moment, 
should you desire to have it. 

On the eve of my departure on the French mission, I cannot lose this 
occasion of saying with what constant interest I shall continue to follow 
up the proceedings of the Smithsonian Regents; and of adding, that if it 
ever be thought 1 could render the least service to the institution while 
in Paris, it would aff"ord me the greatest pleasure to be called upon. 

I beg you to believe in the esteem with wliich I am, dear sir, very 
faithfully yours, 

RICHARD RUSH. 

Hon. Robert Dale Owen. 



147 [ 23 ] 

GiRARD College, May 8, 1847. 
^ Dear Sir: I received your favor of the 15th ultimo, enclosing a letter 
from the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, both of which I laid before the build- 
ing committee of the Girard College ; and 1 am sorry to say, that in cou- 
sequence of their having no power nor right to expend the funds intrusted 
to them for any other purpose than the building of the college, they find 
themselves unable to comply with the request. 

They desire me to say that they highly appreciate the flattering notice 
Mr. Owen has taken of the work under their charge, and their inahility to 
meet his views by furnishing an engraving for the contemplated work. 

The only engraving of the college over which they have any control 
is no doubt entirely too large for the proposed book, and its execution is 
not such as would do credit either to the institution or the college. 

I send you an impression, by which you will see that it is by no 
means fit for a work like the one in question. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

THOS. U. WALTER. 

Hon. Richard Rush. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

THIRTY-SIXTH MEETING— October 18, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

Mr. Seaton stated to the committee that he had received several letters 
from Mr. Notman, of Philadelphia, one of the architects to whom a pre- 
mium of $250 had been awarded, and who at first had declined to receive 
said premium in full compensation for his plans ; and that Mr. Notman 
had finally agreed to receive said premium in full, as appears from the 
annexed check on him (Mr. Seaton) for the amount : 

Philadelphia, September 28, 1847. 

Hon. W. W. Seaton, 

Regent of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Sir: At sight pay to my order two hundred and fifty dollars, being in 
full of premium awarded me as compensation for my design for the in- 
stitution, by the Board of Regents j this being my receipt in full for the 

same, as ordered. 

JOHN NOTMAN. 

$250. 

Mr. Seaton further stated to the committee that Mr. Notman requested 
the return of his drawings, stating that " drawings are invariably return- 
ed, except the one preferred." 

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved, That the request of Mr. Notman, for the return of his draw- 
ings, be referred to the Board of Regents at their next session. 

Mr. Seaton submitted from Mr. WiUiam Archer, of Washington, the 
following letter : 



[ 23 ] 148 

Washington, August 27, 1847. 

Sir : I address you as a member of the building committee of the 
Smithsonian Institution. It will be remembered the subscriber furnished 
apian, specification, and estimate of an edifice for the institution. 

That plan was made to suit what was believed to be the object of the 
testator, and according to the true meaning of the act of Congress — to "be 
of the best and most durable materials, and fire-proof." That plan was re- 
ceived by the building committee, and taken by them to the eastern cities 
and shown to the artists, architects, and builders, along with, and in con- 
trast with, the plan of Dr. Owen. And as Dr. Owen was paid for his 
plan, though not adopted, and as all the other architects that copied 
from him were paid, surely 1 have the same if not a better right to be 
paid than they, as both the committee and the architects had the benefit 
of my specification and estimate for comparison, or to copy from. There- 
fore I hope the committee will allow me the same consideration as the 
others. 

T am, with all due respect, your obedient servant, 

WILLIAM ARCHER. 

To W. \V. Seaton, esq.. 

Buildinsr Committee Smithsonian Institution, 



"to 



Mr. Seaton was instructed to inform Mr. Archer, in reply to the above 
communication, that he is mistaken in supposing that Dr. Owen's plan 
was paid for ; that although the general internal arrangements of that plan 
were substantially adopted, and though one of the present wings is a copy, 
somewhat modified, of the original elevation submitted by him, (Dr. O.,) 
yet that he (Dr. O.) received no remuneration whatever fur his plans, they 
being considered, like Mr. Archer's, a voluntary offering to the institu- 
tion ; further, that no portion whatever of Mr. Archer's design, euher of 
its general plan or its elevation, had been adopted or copied, with or with- 
out modifications ; and therefore, even if it be considered as submitted in 
competition with the other plans, it stands but in the same situation as 
many others that were returned to the respective architects without any 
remuneration ; and finally, that the conmiittee has no authority to award 
a premium or grant remuneration in this or any similar case. 

The chairman submitted, as a memorandum regarding the condition, 
of the building fund, a copy of a letter yesterday addressed by him to 
the Chancellor, as follows : 

Washington, October 17, 1S47. 

My Dear Sir: I arrived here last evening from Baltimore, and called 
upon Mr. Seaton this morning. He showed me a letter from you, in reply 
to a request of his for a power of attorney to draw {jt>7,5(JU of the funds of 
the Smithsonian Institution to pay contractors, &c., for which same $7,500 
you had previously, to wit: on the 4th instant, signed a requisition ; and 
he requested me to write to you, and comply with your request to be fur- 
nished with a copy of such portion of the minutes of our board as gives 
authority to draw or apply this sum. 

I see you have forgotten how this matter of appropriation stands. Just 
previously to the appointment of the building committee, to wit: on the 
28th January last, the board passed resolutions that the said committee 



149 [ 23 ] 

contract for the building at an amount not exceeding $^210,000, 

with 10 per cent, added — say - . '. . |231,000 

For warming and lighting the same .... 5,000 

For fitting up and furnishing the same - - - 20,000 

For fencing the lot - . . - . . 10,000 

and some other appropriations. 

After which, the board passed the following resolution : 

" liesolved, That the Executive Committee certify to the Chancellor 
and Secretary of the board the total amount of debts incurred, contracts 
entered into, and contracts authorized by the board ; and that the Chan- 
cellor and Secretary, after examination and approval of the same, certify 
the same to the proper officer of the treasury fir payment." 

This, you will recollect, was done, and $250,000 of treasury notes ob- 
tained. 

And they also passed, the same day, the following additional resolution: 

" Resolved, That the Executive Committee be anthorized to receive 
said payment in treasury notes, payable to the order of the Chancellor of 
the Smithsonian Institution in one year from date, bearing an interest of 
six per cent, per annum ; and that they be further authorized to exchange 
^150,0(10 of said notes as soon as practicable for an equal amount of six 
per cent, stock of the United States, payable in twenty years, which 
stock shall be payable to the Chancellor of the institution; which said 
notes and stock shall be deposited for safekeeping only with the Treasurer 
of the United States, or such other person as they may deem proper, to 
be drawn out only upon checks or warrants signed by the Chancellor, the 
Secretary, and the chairman of the Executive Committee." 

Now the amount of ^7,-500, which we now want, and for which you 
have already signed a requisition, (not the proper form; it should have been 
*^a check or warrant signed by the Chancellor, the Secretary, and the chair- 
man of the Executive Committee,") we desire to draw in the shape of in- 
terest, namely: the half-yearly interest due in August last on the above 
treasury notes, which treasury notes are the result of a requisition already 
duly made in accordance with the first of the above resolutions for 
$250,000, and now, as it were, in the hands of a disbursing agent. 

It is clearly expedient and proper to draw the interest first, and not to 
touch the notes themselves till we are compelled to do so; and to obtain 
this interest a power of attorney from you, it seems, is necessary. 

The Chancellor, Secretary, and chairman of the Executive Committee, 
have the full authority to draw not only the interest, but, in proportion as 
they may be required, the treasury notes themselves also, without any 
ulterior appropriation, or other action whatever, of the board. 

To make our payments to the contractors, we shall have to draw a por- 
tion of the notes themselves, and sell them before New Year's day, the 
date when our semi-annual interest on the principal sum of $515,169 be- 
comes due. 

You may remember that the understanding was, that of the entire sum 
at which the building might be contracted, not more than one fifth was 
to be spent by the building committee in each of the five years during 
which the building will be in progress of construction. Now you will 
see by the items of expenditure since the 1st of March last, which Mr. 
Seaton informs me he has sent you, that we have in the present year, so 
lar, paid to the contractor but $14,088. I learn that the probable amount 



[23] 



150 



we shall have to pay to him up to the 1st January next, may be about 
§^10,0(10; and up to the 19th March next, (being one year from the date 
of the contract,) perhaps $5,000 more; making tlie total payments in the 
first year but $29,000, instead of $41,000, (one-fourth the amount at 
which the building was contracted,) being the amount we were author- 
ized to expend. 

We have thus, you will perceive, husbanded our resources so as to save 
interest much beyond the anticipations of the board. 

The building proceeds as well as could be desired ; and its appearance, 
so far as I can learn, gives universal satisfaction, 
I am, my dear sir, faithfully yours, 

ROBERT DALE OWEN. 
The Hon. George M. Dallas, 

Chancellor. 

The chairman, in connexion with the subject of the treatise on Public 
Architecture, of which the preparation by resolution of the 6th March last 
(see page 22) was intrusted to him, stated to the committee that he had 
commenced the collection of materials for said work, but had been able 
to make but little progress in it while at home, for lack of the necessary 
works of reference; that it was his intention now to devote his time to it, 
without interruption, in the hope that he might be able to complete the 
letter press before the meeting of the board in December, and that some 
of the chief illustrations were already in hands in New York. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

THIRTY SEVENTH MEETING— October 22, 1847. 
[Held on the site of the Institution.] 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Totten, and Owen. 

Representations having been made to the committee by sundry indi- 
viduals, in regard to the insufficient quality of some of the materials em- 
ployed by the contractor in the building, they proceeded to the building, 
and after carefully examining the materials complained of, they decided 
that, although there were some pieces of timber in the east connecting 
range which were not merchantable, these were not of such a character, 
nor so placed, that any practical injury would result to the structure from 
their use ; and, therefore, the committee decided that it was not necessary 
to condemn or remove them. They instructed the architect, however, for 
the future to throw out every piece of timber, no matter how unimpor- 
tant its destination, which was not strictly merchantable. 

The committee fully approved all the other materials used in the build- 
ing. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 

THIRTY EIGHTH MEETING— October 26, 1S47. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

The chairman informed the committee that he had visited, in company 
with the architect and contractor, the several quarries of Bull run from 
which material is now getting out for the building, and had inspected the 
blocks prepared for transportation, of which a large number had accumu- 



151 [ 23 ] 

lated in the qnarry in consequence of the injury done to the canal by the 
freshet several weeks since. He was completely satisfied with the quahty 
and color of all that had been quarried. The stone quarries with remark- 
able facility, and with such regularity that the face, as it splits, is often 
smooth and regular enough to reseiuble stone roughly dressed for the ex- 
ternal face of a building. It resembles in this respect the granite described 
by Dr. Owen, (page 32,) and is quarried in the same manner. 

As to the quantity, it seems, as the quarries open, to be absolutely in- 
exhaustible; the representations of Mr. Dixon, former contractor, (see 
page 119,) to the contrary notwithstanding. The contractor proposes to 
open another quarry, immediately on the bank of the canal, and some 
300 or 400 yards nearer Seneca creek than that which has heretofore fur- 
nished material ; in which new quarry the face of the rock, so far as it is 
disclosed, promises even a better quality and color than that in the old ; 
while the transportation from the quarry to the scow will be greatly short- 
ened. 

Nothing can be more satisfactory than the aspect of these quarries, the 
facility with which they are worked, the grain and tint of the material 
they have furnished, and their promise for the future. 

On motion, the committee adjourned. 

THIRTY-NINTH MEETING-November 1, 184T. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Totten, and Owen. 

The chairman submitted the first chapter of the work which, in accord- 
ance with a resolution of the committee (page 22) he is preparing, on 
Public Architecture. 

It was approved. 

The chairman, in connexion with the preparation of the said work, 
stated to the committee his intention to visit New York in a few days, 
as well to examine the illustrations now in progress, and put others in 
hand, as to consult authorities not to be found in this city. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned, 

FORTIETH MEETING— November 9, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

On motion of the chairman, it was 

Resolved, 'I'hat the architect be requested to cause to be prepared, so 
as to be ready next summer, the furniture of the Regents' room, as set 
down in the specifications, to wit: eighteen chairs and a table; and that 
he cause also to be made, as furniture for the Secretary's room, and to be 
ready af the same time, a desk, six chairs, and a small centre table. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the remuneration of William McPeak, messenger, be, 
from the date of his last payment, to wit : the second of August last, seven 
dollars per week. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the chairman order, for the use of the board, 2,50 copies 
of Senate document No. 212, being the first report of the Board of Regents 
to Congress ; provided the cost of the same do not exceed fifteen dollars. 

And, on motion, the committee adjourned. 



[ 23 ] 152 

FORTY-FIRST MEETING— November 26, 1847. 

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. 

The chairman, on his return from New York, made the following 

REPORT. 

In regard to the illustrations of the work on Public Architecture, 1 find 
that to procure execution in a manner that shall be creditable to the insti- 
tution, will cost more than 1 had anticipated. Mr. Drayton, who has 
charge of the publications of the Exploring Expedition, and has, in con- 
sequence, great experience, both in regard to the relative talents of en- 
gravers and to the proper cost of engravings, has afforded me much assist- 
ance in this matter. We found it impossible, however, to contract for the 
steel engravings, giving two perspective views of the institution, one from 
the southeast, and the other from the northwest, and executed in the best 
style of art, for less than from three hundred and fifty to four hundred 
dollars for the two ; which is fifty per cent, more than I had expected to 
pay. 

Having satisfied myself, however, that engravings of this character 
could not be obtained for less, I empowered Messrs. Sherman and Smith, 
corner of Broadway and Liberty street, to whom Mr. Drayton recom- 
mended that they should be intrusted, to proceed with one specimen ; 
after which, they would be able to fix the exact price at which the two 
could be completed. 

For the reasons above stated, and considering the very limited amount 
placed at the disposal of our committee, for illustrations, I judge it pru- 
dent chiefly to trust, for the other illustrations, to wood cuts, which are 
now executed in New York in very good style, and which will not cost 
more than half as much as steel engravings. 

Accordingly, I called on Mr. Adams, by whom were executed the wood- 
cuts in Harper's Pictorial Bible, and who has since, as I learn, retired 
from the profession. I had been advised to consult him as one who knew 
more about the relative talents of wood-cutters in this country than prob- 
ably any other man, and he recommended, as the best for architectural 
engraving, Mr. John H. Hall, Fulton street. I had several interviews 
wuh Mr. Hall, obtained his prices, and inspected several specimens of his 
work, with which I was well pleased, and of which two are herewith 
submitted to the committee. The effect does not seem to me greatly in- 
ferior to that of steel engraving. 

Mr. Hall offered to execute the perspective view of the Gothic plan of 
Mr. James Renwick, ordered by resolution of this committee of April 10, 
(see page 120,) and which requires more work than the perspective view 
of the institution, for $100. 

It will be necessary to employ more than one wood -cutter, in order to 
complete the illustrations in reasonable season ; and if the committee de- 
cide that it is best to procure the illustrations chiefly on wood, I have 
made the arrangement for putting them in hands. Mr. Roberts, whom I 
stated in my report of April (3 (see page 117) to have been recommended 
by Mr. Durand as the best wood-cutter in this country, I found exclu- 
sively engaged by one of the tract societies. 

In regard to the application made by resolutions of this committee, 



153 [23] 

under date April 19, to the vestry of Grace church, and of Trinity church, 
and to the firm of Alexander Stewart &. Co., for plates of Grace church. 
Trinity church, and Stewart's new marble store, I have to state that the 
Grace church vestry have liberally agreed to pay one hundred dollars for 
a plate, of iheir church, on the terms of our resolution. The Trinity 
vestry have not yet come to a final decision. Mr. Stewart was not seen, 
though twice called on ; but one of his partners informed Mr. Renwick that 
they would probably furnish an engraving of their building, as it is to be 
ultimately completed. 

By the terms of our resolution, the engraving of Grace church must be 
executed on steel or copper ; and as it is a much less elaborate engraving 
than that of the Smithsonian building, Mr. Drayton thinks we can have 
it executed on steel for a hundred dollars. 

Even if we decide to let all the other illustrations be cut on wood, it will, 
I think, be impossible to execute those already embraced in our resolu- 
tions, (see page 120,) and such as are indispensable to a due explanation of 
the text to the general reader, for the sum of $1,UU0, to which the appro- 
priation is at present limited. Nor do I believe that the treatise itself, in- 
cluding the appendix, can be advantap-eously condensed into a hundred 
and fifty pages of letter-press, as by the agreement with Wiley & Put- 
nam (page 115) it was stipulated it should. I deemed it proper then to 
seek to obtain from these publishers a conditional supplement to that agree- 
ment, based on the contingency that the Board of Regents might vote an 
additional appropriation. They agreed to the proposal I made to them, 
and signed the following 

Supj)lement to the agreement of April 3, 1847. 

Whereas, by an agreement made the third day of April, 1847, between 
Wiley &. Putnam, publishers of New York, and Robert Dale Owen, on 
behalf of the building committee of the Smithsonian Institution, re- 
gardino^ the publication of a treatise, to be entitled " Hints on Public 
Architecture," it was stipulated that the illustrations of the said treatise 
(that is to say, its engravings and wood-cuts) should cost not less than 
one thousand dollars, and that the number of pages of said treatise should 
not exceed one hundred and fifty pages of letterpress : Now, therefore, 
it is further agreed, that in case the said building committee should see fit 
to incre'ase the value of the said illustrations, then the said Wiley & 
Putnam agree that the number of pages of letter-press may be propor- 
tionably increased ; as, if five hundred dollars additional be expended for 
the illustrations, then one half of one hundred and fifty pages — say seventy- 
five pages— may be added to the letter-press ; and so of any larger or 
smaller sum : Provided, hoioever, that the entire number of pages of letter- 
press shall not, in any case, exceed two hundred and fifty. 

Witness our hands and seals this 22d of November, 1847. 

WILEY & PUTNAM, [l. s ] 

In presence of Thos. B. Graves, 
as to W^iley tfc Putnam. 

ROBERT DALE OWEN, 

on behalf of the Building CommUtee 

of the Smithsonian Institution. 



[23] 



134 



I recommended that in the report of the bnilding committee to be 
made to the board at th'-ir next meeting, it be proposed that they should 
increase the appropriation accordingly. 

I examined, with a good deal ofcare, most of the churches that, have been 
recently erected and are now in progress of erection in New York. They 
are, as a general rule, very creditable to the architectural talent of the 
country. Among those y«^t unfinished, one of the most promising is St. 
George church, (Episcopalian,) situated at the corner of Sixteenth street 
and Stuyvesant square, built in the same style as our building, namely, 
in the Lombard style of the twelfth century. The general effect will, I 
think, be very fine, especially of the front towers. The rear terminates 
in an absis, somewhat similar to that on the north frontof our west wing — 
a beautiful feature. The building when completed, it is said, will cost 
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars; and though I could not obtain 
its exact size, it will be one of the largest churches in New York, being 
some ninety feet in width. Its galleries are to be supported from the side 
■walls, without pillars. Some of its details appeared to me faulty, as the 
corbel course along the upper portion of its side walls and on its tov/ers is 
feeble, and not sufficiently projecting for a building of such magnitude; 
and I think the architect would have done better to trust to the flat Nor- 
man buttress running into the corbel course above, rather than to intro- 
duce a buttress of a much later date, deep and heavy, and which, from 
many points of view, wholly conceals the windows. The latter (the win- 
dows) are both wider and higher than is usual in the Lombard style ; 
but I think the eflect is good. 

I purchased, and herewith submit, a perspective view of this church, 
as one of the first proofs that the opinion 1 expressed when the style of 
our building was objected to on the score of its singularity, (namely, that 
a greater objection might hereafter be, that Lombard buildings would be 
repeated all over the country, as Grecian and Gothic have been, until we 
were tired of them,) is not unlikely to be verified. 

I visited also some of the older churches — among the rest St. Paul's, in 
Broadway, near the Astor House. It exhibits great beauties and great 
defects. Its spire is. In my opinion, one among the prettiest in its style 
(the Roman) in the world; and as such, 1 had it daguereotyped, and shall 
use it as an illustration in our work. The interior, with its Grecian pil- 
lars and broken entablatures, forming imposts for the arches of its galle- 
ries, furnishes a striking illustration of the bad effect produced by that 
heterogenous mixture of Gothic forms and Grecian details that goes under 
the name of Roman. 

Through the kindness of Professor Renwick, I obtained admittance to 
the New York Society library, and spent some time there examining its 
works on architecture. 

I also obtained, through Professor Renwick, an opportunity of exam- 
ining Canina's great work on Egyptian, Grecian, and Roman architec- 
ture, published a few years since at Kome. It may be said, in each style of 
which it treats, almost to exhaust the subject — at least to furnish the best 
and most extensive modern illustrations of Egyptian, Grecian, and Ro- 
man buildings, to be found in any one collection now extant. As almost 
all the works on architecture heretofore purchased by us have been on 
Gothic and Norman architecture only, I think this work would be a val- 
uable and important purchase. It is the property of a private gentleman, 



155 [ 23 ] 

Mr. Parish, who imported it; and I understand from Professor Renwick 
it could be hnd from him at first cost in Rome, with duty added, it 
would be of much use to me in the preparation of the work I have 
now in charge. 

At Philcidelphia 1 saw Mr. Notman, and at New York Mr. Arnot ; 
both of whom expressed a desire that their designs should be pub- 
lished in our work. 1 think it likely that if we agreed to furnish each 
of them a hundred copies of the engraving, (which we can obtain at 
the cost of paper and printing,) they would supply us, at their own cost, 
with a reduced perspective view from which to engrave ; and if the board 
votes us an additional appropriation, 1 recommend that such a propo- 
sition be made to them; and also to Mr. Daniel, of Cincinnati, who 
has signified to me a similar desire in regard to the publication of his 
design— a design, as the committee may remeniber, in the Italian style. 

At Philadelphia I called upon Mr. Joseph R. Ingersoll, who has always 
shown much interest in the institution, and he has promised to procure 
for me, from authentic sources, the exact dimensions of the Girard Col- 
lege building; its cost to the present time; and the estimated cost of its 
completion. He also stated to me that he would endeavor to procure 
some particulars regarding the style and dimensions of a large cathedral 
of which the foundations have recently been laid by the ('atholics of 
Philadelphia. 

I made the acquaintance in New York of Mr. Kellogg, the artist who 
has charge of Mr. Power's " Greek slave." He expressed to me a strong 
desire that some arrangements might be made by which our institu- 
tion should obtain that statue, and fit up one of the rooms in our build- 
ing (perhaps in one of the central towers) for its reception It is, in my 
opinion, one of the finest statues that has ever been produced, in ancient 
or modern times, and as well worthy of a separate tribune as the Venus 
de Medicis. 

ROBERT DALE OWEN. 

Washington, November 26, 1847. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was 

Resolved^ That Professor Renwick be authorized to purchase on behalf 
of the institution, of Mr. Parish, Canina's work on Egyptian, Grecian, and 
Roman architecture, provided the same can be obtained at the first cost in 
Rome, with the duty added. 

Resolved^ That the chairs for the Regents' room and Secretary's 
room be covered with maroon colored leather. 



23 ] 156 

No. 3. 
Report of the Executive Committee, on the state of the funds. 

The Executive Committee report the state of the funds of the institution, 
on the 1st instant, as follows : 
The Board of Regents have drawn from the treasury, of accruing interest, 

to pay the current expenses of the institution - - $40,660 SI 

The disbursements from this fund have been as follows: 

For expenses of Board of Regents and its commit- 
tees ------ S3,8:6 47 

For materials and erection of specimen walls, and 

superintendence thereof - - - 393 63 

1 K ^ '^ OQ 

For books purchased ... - ooo jj 

For compensation to architects for designs, &c. - 1,325 00 

For recording and copying . . - u^S Jo 

For services of Assistant Secretary - - 200 00 

For services of messenger - - - '^^^ 50 

tor postage - - - - - ^o jy 

For printing - - - - - ^47 63 
For examination of quarries, including expenses 

of geologist - - - - - 3/0 76 
For perspeciive views of institution - - 200 00 
For chemical examination of building-materials - 94 50 
For expenses contiected with ceremonies, &c,, on 
the occasion of laying the corner stone of build- 
ing ... - - - 185 37 
For stationery - - - - - 11^2 b J 
For philosophical and chemical apparatus - 1,57147 
For salary of Secretary - - - - i,/ou uu 
For expense of first volume of Transactions, in part 203 53 
For incidentals, including furnishings, freight, car- 

riage, hack-hire, &.c. - - . " . . " 

For surveying and recording levels of institution 

grounds - - - - - 112 50 

For expenses of building, including superintend- 
ence ------ 25,002 67 



37,670 02 
Balance in the hands of Corcoran & Riggs, De- 
cember 1, 1847 ----- 2,990 79 



40,660 81 



The entire amount of the funds of the institution on the 1st instant 
was $758,159 79, being $861 79 more than the amount of its funds on 
the day of the passage of the act by which it was organized ; and on the 
first of next month there will be due of interest, $15,455. 

The institution has no debts, except a few unimportant items not yet 
rendered, and also an account for the seal of the institution. 

' W. W. SEATON, 

ROBblRT DALE OWEN, 
December 15, 1847. A. D. BACHE. 

/ 



157 [ 23 ] 

No. 4. 

Proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution Jrmi 
the date of their last annual report to the 21 th December, 1847. 

WEDNESDAY, December 8, 1847. 

This being the day fixed, by resohition of September 9, 1846 for tli^ 
regular meeting of the Board of Regents, the board convened at the room 
of the Vice President of the United States, in the Capitol 

There appeared George M. Dallas, the Chancellor, and the following 
Regents: A. D. Bache, Sidney Breese, Gideon Hawley, Henry W m. 
hard, Robert Dale Owen, William W. Seaton, and Joseph G Totten 

A quorum being present, the board proceeded to business, the Chan- 
cellor in the chair. 

Mr. Owen from the Building Committee, presented a report, together 
wita a complete copy of the journal of the committee. 
Laid on the table. 

FRIDAY, December 10, 1847. 

The board met pursuant to adjournment. 

Present, in addition to those in attendance at the last meeting Lewis 
Cass and J. A. Pearce. 

The Secretary made a report relative to the transactions of the past year 
the acceptance of memoirs, the purchase of apparatus, die., and including 
a programme of organization. °' 

SATURDAY, December 11, 1847. 

Mr. Owen, from the Executive Committee, made a report relative to a 
plan of finance and of general appropriation of funds up to the 19th of 
March, 1852, or until the building shall be completed. 
On motion of Mr Hawley, 

Resolved, That the report of the Building Committee, the report of the 
Secretary, and the report of the Executive Committee, be inserted at lar^^e 
in the journal of the board. * 

(See documents 1, 2, 5, and 6.) 

MONDAY, December 13, 1847. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee cause to be printed, in the 
same form as the report on organization, one thousand copies of the ad- 
dress delivered by the Chancellor on occasion of laying the corner-stone 
of the institution, and that the Secretary cause to be laid on the desk of 
each member of the Senate and of the House of Representatives two 
copies of the same, as soon as it shall be printed. 
On motion of Mr. Bache, 

Resolved, That so much of the programme presented to the Board of 
Regents by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in his recent re- 
port, as is contained in sections Nos. 1 and 2 of said programme, be pro- 



28 1 



158 



visionally adopted; that the Secretary be charged with the execution of its 
details, as far as the tunds appropriated for the several objects may permit, 
and that he be directed to report annually to the board his progress in the 

execution of this duty. , , t . j . ^ a^^ 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be directed to report, alter 
consultation with the Secretary, to the Board of Regents ^^ rehnon to the 
special appropriations desirable for the year beginning March 19, 184b, in 
execution of parts of the programme which have been provisionally adopted. 
Mr Owen asked to be excused from service as a member of the I^xecu- 
tive Committee, representing to the board that the most important duties 
of this committee would hereafter be to select among various scientihc ob- 
jects and researches those to which appropriations should be made, arid 
that there were gentlemen on the board, not members of the comimttee, par- 
ticularly a Regent from Washington, better qualified than himself to make 

such selection. . „ . p, 

The motion to excuse Mr. Owen from service on the Executive Com- 
mittee being put by the Chancellor, it was lost. r ,. x? 

Mr Totten asked to be excused from service as a member of the Exe- 
cutive Committee, representing to the board that the time spent by him as 
a member of another committee of the board was as much as he could 
spare from his professional duties. , , r.. n -f ,,.oo 

The motion to excuse Mr. Totten being put by the Chancellor, it was 

Thereupon the board proceeded, by ballot, to fill the vacancy thus crea- 
ted; and, on counting the ballots, it appeared that Mr. Bache was elected. 

The Secretary presented a list of books received m virtue of the pro- 
vision contained in the tenth section of the act organizing the institution; 
also, a list of books presented to the institution. 

WEDNESDAY, December 15, 1847. 

Mr. Seaton, from the Executive Committee, presented a report on the 
state of the finances of the institution. r i ,u^ 

Mr Bache, from the Executive Committee, to whom was referred the 
resolution of the 13th instant, relative to appropriations for the year com- 
mencing on the 19th of March, 1848, made the following report: 

'' The committee, after consultation with the Secretary, recommend the 
passage of the following resolution: , ,n.u ^Tv/r,..v. 

" That the appropriations for the year commencing on the jyth of Maich, 
1848, for objects other than those provided for out of the building fund, 
be for the present as follows: 

'' For the publication of Transactions, the sum of three thousand and tive 

hundred dollars; a cc i^i 

"For computations relative to occultations, two hundred and htty clol- 

^'Vor purchase of magnetic instruments, six hundred dollars; 

" For instruments and other expenses connected with meteorological 
observations, one thousand dollars; . r -. ^ ■^v 

'' For arrangement of apparatus, &c., in such portion of the building 
as shall be completed next autumn, one hundred and fifty dollars; 

"For exj^nnses of lectures, including hghting of lecture-room, live 
hundred dollars j 



i 



159 [ 23 ] 

" For publication of scientific reports, five hundrer] dollars; 

" For general expenses of the institution, including salary of officers 
expenses of board and its committees, clerk hire, postage,' <^:c. seven 
thousand five hundred dollars; ^ 

" For purchase of books, and incidentals connected therewith, one thou- 
sand dollars; 

" Or so much of each of said sums as may in the said year be required." 
On motion of Mr. Hough, the above resolution was adopted. 

On motion of Mr. Bache, 
Resolved, That the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institutiou be the 
organ of communication of the Smithsonian Institution with ihe public 
and that the Secretary be the organ of communication between the otficers of 
the institution and the Chancellor, and also between the officers of the in- 
stitution and the board. 

FRIDAY, December 17, 1S4T. 

On motion of Mr. Hough, 

Resolved, That by the appointment of Hon. Richard Rush, of Penn- 
sylvania, to the office of minister plenipotentiary to France, and his con- 
tinued absence from the United States, and residence at a foreign court for 
an indefinite length of time under such appointment, his office of Regent 

of the Smithsonian Institution has become vacant, and that Mr. be 

a committee to introduce into, and procure to be passed through the Sen- 
ate of the United States, the necessary joint resolution of the two houses 

of Congress for the appointment of a Regent of said institution, to 

fill such vacancy, pursuant to the third section of the act incorporating 
said institution. 

On motion of Mr. Hough, it was 

Resolved, That the first blank be filled with the name of Mr. Pearce, 
and the second with that of Mr. Owen. 
On motion of Mr. Bache, it was 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents recommend to the establishment 
the election of the Hon. Richard Rush, of Pennsylvania, late a member 
of the Board of Regents, as an honorary member of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Rpsolved, That the Chancellor be d'^puted to request a meeting of the 
establishment for the purpose of proposing the Hon, Richard Rush as an 
honorary men:!ber of the Smithsonian Institution. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the Chancellor be requested to address a letter to Mr. 
Rush, conveying to hmi the regret of the Board of Regents at his absence, 
and consequent retirement from the board. 

FRIDAY, December 21, 1847. 

In addition to the members previously mentioned as attending the ses- 
sion of the board, Mr. Choate, of Massachusetts, appeared. 

The Secretary presented various letters and reports from different indi- 
viduals and societies, recommending the plan of organization of the 
Smithsonian Institution given in the programme presented to the board in 
his reportj which, on motion, were laid on the table. 



[23] 



160 



The Secretary presented a letter addressed to himself by Professor Jewett, 
contahlg suggestions as to the formation of the library. 
(See appendix to document rso. b.) 

TUESDAY EVENING, December 21, 1847. 

for consideration, they were adopted. 

P fir^Z tl"secSy be requested to inform the Assistant Sec 

'"SrChoate offered the following resolution; which, on his suggestion, 
"'^i:*:rTVaf '"committee of three be appointed by the Chancdlor ^o 

probably be the expense of these services. 

WEDNESDAY, December 22, 184T. 
Mr. Owen renewed the request previously made by him to be excused 

reelected Regeiit his am e^ the committee had referred to him 

b;'iv^u:rg''rnm^:rt;^l^;:i;^.thrbo:^:ouiihavjanopportu.dty, 

•'t^VS^n^rxct': Sl.ren^S service on the Executive Cotn- 

nnte-jr/or^y^-nrniS^-^^^^^^^^ '° zt '- 

rancy SrSe Executive Committee thus created, by resolution; and, 

On motion of Mr. HiUiard, it was FYPcutive 

Resolved, That Mr. Pcarce be appointed a member of the Executive 

Committee. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was , 

Resolved, That the salary of the messenger be hereafter at the rate ol 

four hundred dollars per annum. 

THURSDAY, December 23, 1847. 

Geoi-eP Marsh, of Vermont, and Robert McClelland, of Michigan 
n.cnnbers of the board appomted from the House of Representatives to fill 
^rnt esof Mr Owenan^ Mr. Hough, whose term of service has ex- 
pi^rappeared and took their seats, as also Mr. Hilhard, re-appointed a 
member of the board. 



161 [ 23 ] 

The resolution offered by Mr. Choate on Tuesday, the 21st instant, rcla- 
tive to the appointment of a committee of three to consider what services 
may be rendered by the Assistant Secretary, acting as Hbrarian, between 
this time and March 19, 1849, coming up for consideration, 

It was adopted. 

And the Chancellor appointed Messrs. Choate, Bache, and McClelland 
the said committee. 

The Secretary stated to the board that during the past year he had, with 
the consent of the Executive Committee, given a course of lectures at 
Princeton, for which he had received, including the rent of the house oc- 
cupied by his family, a compensation of one thousand dollars. For this 
Slim, after deducting certain expenses for clerk hire, assistance, &c., he 
had given credit to the board in his account for the present half year. 

FRIDAY, December 24, 1847. 
The Chancellor presented the following letter from Mr. Cass: 

Washington, December 24, 1847. 
Sir: Finding it impossible, consistently with my other duties, properly 
to execute the trust of a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, I request 
that this may be considered as my resignation of that ofhce. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

LEWIS CASS. 
To the Hon, George M. Dallas, 

Vice President t>f the United States. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 
Resolved, That Mr. Breese be requested to move in the Senate of the 
United States for the appointment of a successor to Mr. Cass. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 
Resolved, That the account of expenditures rendered by the Executive 
Committee, after being certified by the Chancellor and the Secretary, be 
entered on the journal. [See document No. 3.] 

MONDAY, December 27, 1847. 

Mr. Choate, from the committee appointed on the 23d instant, relative to 
the duty of the Assistant Secretary, made the following report, with accom- 
panying resolutions : 

The committee appointed at a meeting of the Board of Regents on the 
23d instant, to inquire and report in what manner the Assistant Secretary, 
as librarian, may be employed (if at all) with advantage to the Smithsonian 
Institution, between the present time and the 19th March, 1849, respect- 
fully present for the consideration of the board the following resolutions, 
embracing the matter of their inquiries, together with a report from the As- 
sistant Secretary. 

Respectfully submitted by 

R. CHOATE, 
A. D. BACHE, 

R, McClelland, 

11 Committee. 



[23] 



162 



The resolutions accompanying the report of the committee were as fol- 
lows : 

Resolved, That the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, may be em- 
ployed with advantage to the Smithsonian Institution, during a portion of 
the time between this date and the 19th of March, 1849, in the following 
duties, to wit: 

1 . The preparation of catalogues of books suitable for the commence- 
ment of the library, in accordance with the plan of organization heretofore 
adopted by the Board of Regents. 

2. The purchase of the more necessary books on bibliography. 

3. The collection and systematic arrangement, for purposes of comparison,, 
of the printed catalogues of the principal libraries throughout the United 
States; together with information in regard to the expenditures, plans of 
increase, and other particulars relating to the said libraries. 

4. The collection of works to which the institution may be entitled un- 
der the tenth section of the act organizing the institution. 

Resolved, That the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, be employed 
for the purposes specified in the foregoing resolution under the direction of 
a committee of three members of the board, to be appointed by the Chan- 
cellor, and to act in conjunction with the Secretary, at a compensation to 
be fixed by the Executive Committee, but not to exceed one thousand dol- 
lars, for any services he may render between this date and the time fixed 
for ihe commencement of his regular duties as Assistant Secretary. 

The said resolutions coming up for consideration, they were adopted. 

Whereupon, the Chancellor appointed Mr. Choate, Mr. Marsh, and Mr. 
Bache the said committee. 

The Secretary presented to the board the subject of the remuneration of 
the Assistant Secretary for services rendered during the past year: wdiere- 
upon. 

On motion, it was 

Resolved, That the subject of compensation to the Assistant Secretary 
for services rendered during the past year, be referred to the Executive 
Committee. 

The board then adjourned sine die. 



163 [ 23 ] 

No. 5. 

Rf'port of the Exeadive Coynmittee of the Smilhson'mn Instifntin?,, em- 
bodijiiis^a proposed scale of expenditure for four years from, the \9lh of 
March, 1S47 ; being- the remainder of the term of the contract for the 
erection of the institution building. 

The contract for the institution building has been made; the building 
itself is considerably advanced ; and the building committee have had an 
opportunity of ascertaining, with some degree of accuracy, the entire 
amount of expenditure made, or authorized, or necessarily to be incurred, 
on the said building, and on the lot on which it stands, until the same 
shall be completed— say on the 19th of March, 1852. 

Some progress has also been made in the preparation of transactions, 
and in carrying out other measures in fulfilment of the will of the testa- 
tor, to "increase and diffuse knowledge among men." 

At this point of progress, the Executive Committee — knowing the great 
desire often expressed by various members of the board during former 
meetings, that the erection of the institution building, though necessarily 
spacious on account of the special requirements of the act organizing the 
institution, should not withdraw from the funds of the institution more 
than a moderate portion even of that accumulated interest wliich the ap- 
propriation by Congress authorizes to be thus employed ; remembering, 
also, that the Chancellor and one of the members of tlie board have here- 
tofore introduced resolutions embodying their wish that the sum thus 
withdrawn shojuld not, if possible, exceed one hundred thousand dollars ; 
but more especially calling to mind the fact that a certain prospective 
plan of finance and scale of expenditure, throughout the years in which 
the building shall be in progress, has been heretofore submitted to the 
board by one of its members, and, though not spread formally upon its 
minutes, did, in fact, receive the sanction of the board — ask leave here to 
submit a scheme of expenditure for four years from the 19th of March 
next, based upon that plan of finance, and differing from it only in some 
details suggested by the present state of the financial affairs of the insti- 
tution, by which the above objects may substantially be accomplished ;. 
so that, on the 19ih of March, 1852, when the buikhng shall be com- 
pleted, including its fitting up, furnishing, lighting and heating, and the 
lot belonging to the institution shall be laid out, planted, and permanently 
fenced ; and when, in a word, everything shall be prepared, so that the 
institution can go into full operation, without any necessity to take from 
its current income thereafter any amount to add to its buildings or to 
secure or adorn its grounds, there shall still remain as a permanent fund, 
bearing six per cent, interest, payable semi-annually, the original capital 
of $515,169, and the interest that had ac2umulated on the same, specified 
in the second section of the act organizing the institution, to wit : the 
sum of $242,129, deducting from these two sums about one hundred 
thousand dollars only ; or, in other words, so that the sum of §657,398, 
or thereabouts, should remain on the 19th March, 1852, as the permanent 
fund of the institution. 

To carry out a plan having this desirable object in view, two condi- 
tions (both within the power of the board) are necessary : tlie first, that 
the entire cost of the building— including the complete fitting up and fur- 



[23] 



164 



nishing of the same ; lighting and heating, ventilating and draining the 
same; supplying the same with water ; laying out in grass and planting 
with trees and shrubs the lot; fencing the same, both with the present 
temporary fence and the final permanent one ; also all expenses for super- 
intendence of erection, includmg the cost of arciiitect's office, and other 
incidentals, so as, in fact, to cover all expenses whatever that have been 
incurred arjd are to be incurred on the building, and on the lot on which 
it stands, until the completion of the building ar:d of the preparation of 
the lot, up to the 19th of March, 1852 — shall not exceed tico hundred and 
fifty til ov sand dollars ; of which the balance unexpended on the 19th 
of March, 1848, shall be expended in nearly equal proportions in each 
of the four years next following that date. 

The second condition is, that the current expenses of the institution, 
exclusive of those just enumerated, but including the expenses of the 
board and its committees; the salaries of otticers, including messenger; 
the expense of all publications, researches, or other similar undertakings ; 
the purchase of books and apparatus; and all incidentals whatever, not 
enumerated in the foregoing paragraph, shall not exceed, for each one of 
the four years next after the 19th of March, iS^'S^JiJteen thousand dol- 
lars. 

The committee proceed to furnish the details necessary to substantiate 
the position here taken. 

In pursuance of instructions contained in a resolution of the board of 
the 28th of January last, this committee, after certifying to the Chancellor 
and Secretary the auiount of contracts entered into and authorized by the 
board, received the said amount, to wit: the sum of two hundred and fifty 
thousand doll;irs, in treasury notes, payable to the order of the Chan- 
cellor of the Smithsonian Institution, dated the 17ih of February, 1847, 
and bearing six per cent, interest, payable semi-annually thereafter. 
These treasury notes are deposited for safekeeping with the Treasurer of 
the United States; and the board will recollect that, by its resolution of 
the 28th oi January last, they can be drawn out only upon checks or 
warrants signed by the Chancellor, the Secretary, and the chairman of 
the Execuiive Committee. Of these treasury notes, ten thousand dol- 
lars were ihus drawn out on the 30th of October last, to pay the con- 
tractor and other expenses. The remainder, to wit: the sum ot two hun- 
dred and forty thousand dollars, still remains invested in said treasury 
notes. The ten thousand dollars sold netted $'10,121 67, being par, with 
interest added to the day of sale. 

By this arrangement, very favorable to the finances of the institution, 
the whole of its funds, both original, principal, and accumulated interest, 
at present amounting to the sum of $755,169, become productive ; bearing, 
under the safest possible investment, six per cent annual interest, payable 
semi-annually. 

So long as no more treasury notes are sold, the annual income of the 
institution, from the above sum thus invested, will be on original princi- 
pal $30,910, and on treasury notes $14,400 — iogeiher, forty -five thousand 
three hundred and ten dollars annually. 

If the entire annual expenses of the institution, for building and all 
other purposes, could be restricted to the above sum of forty-five thou^sand 
three hundred and ten dollars, it is evident that the annual income of the 
institution would remain permanently at that amount. 



165 [ 23 ] 

Whenever any amount of treasury notes is sold, the interest from 
that source, of course, ceases. Whatever annual amount, therefore, be- 
yond the above |45.310, shall, in the course of four years after the 19th 
of March, 1848, be expended by the institution, that amount, together 
with six per cent, interest on each item of treasury notes sold, from the 
date of the several sales to the 19th of March, 1852, will be so much de- 
ducted from the present investment; that is to say, from the sum of 
|T55,169. 

It remains to be seen what the annual excess beyond the above annual 
income will be in each of the four years next following the 19th of March, 
1848, if the suggested scale of expenditure be adopted, and how much of 
the present capital of the institution the said excess will absorb. 

The balance on hand, to meet current expenses, on the 1st instant, as 
will appear by reference to the bank book of the institution, herewith sub- 
mitted, was $2,991. The amount of interest which will be received by 
the institution previously to the 19th of March next, is $22,655, to wit: 
on the 1st of January next $15,455, and on the ITth of February next 
$7, 200. These two items added to the balance in hand give $25,64(3; 
being the amount available, without encroaching on the present invest- 
ment, up to the 19th of March next; that is to say, up to the termination of 
the first year of the building contract. 

The committee, after consultation with the Secretary of the institution 
as to the several amounts which may be required in the course of the 
winter and spring, for the various objects intrusted to him; after carefully 
calculating, also, the expenses to arise from this time to the 19th of March, 
have introduced a series of resolutions, appropriating the above amount of 
$25,646. 

The committee learned from the Secretary that the expense of the first 
volume of the Transactions of the institution would be considerable, on 
account of the number of plates; and, at his suggestion, they have put the 
appropriation for that object, out of the above fund, at $2,000, instead of 
$l,iiOO, as formerly voted. At his suggestion, also, they have set apart 
for apparatus one thousand dollars. In accordance with a request made 
in the report of the building committee to the board, they have also in- 
creased the appropriation for the forthcoming volume on Public Architec- 
ture, from one thousand dollars to two thousand dollars. The items for 
contingencies, including the expenses of the board and its committees, 
they have put at $1,646. If, as the committee recommend, a resolution 
be passed that there be hereafter but one annual meeting of the board, its 
expense will not exceed $500 or $600, which will leave a margin of up- 
wards of one thousand dollars for incidentals and contingencies, inclu- 
ding the seal of the institution, not yet paid for. 

After these various items have been, as the committee think, all fully 
provided for, so that they shall not fall upon the current expenses of the 
year commencing on the 19th of March next, there still remains, out of the 
above $25,646, the sum of seventeen thousand dollars, to be appropriated 
to the building fund, as by the following synopsis of receipts and appro- 
priations will more clearly appear. 

Proposed appropriations, viz: 

For first number of Transactions ----- ^^'^^^ 
For work on " Public Architecture" - - * ■ ^j^^^ 



[23] 



166 



For experiments on building materials, heretofore ordered 

by the board ...... $500 

For part salary of Secretary . . . . 1.500 

For apparatus ..-.-- 1 .000 

For the building fund ..... 17,000 

For contingencies, including expenses of the board and of 

its committees ....-- 1,646 



Total - . . . 125,646 



Receipts from interest, up to the 19th March, 1S4S, viz: 
On the 1st of January .... $15,455 
Onthe 17 th of February - - _ - - 7,200 

Total from interest - - ... 22,655 

On hand 1st December, 1S47 - - - 2,991 



Total available funds to 19th March, 1S47 - $25,646 



By the report of the building committee, dated the 1st instant, it will be 
seen that the expenditure for the building and grounds, including super- 
intendence and other contingencies, was i^25,002 67; say twenty-five thou- 
sand dollars. Add to this amount the above proposed appropriation of 
$17,000, and it will appear, that up to the 19th of Marcli next there is 
provided towards the building fund the amount of $42,000, being some 
six thousand dollars more tlian the probable expenditure to that date, as 
estimated by the building committee. 

If the above amount of ^42,000 be deducted from the entire amount of 
building fund, as now proposed to be fixed at $250,000, it will leave to be 
provided towards that fund in the four years next following the 19th of 
March next, the sum of $208,000. If, asprojwsed, this amount be spread 
equally over the said four years, it will give an expenditure each year for 
these objects of $52,000. 

If, now, we deduct from the annual income of the institution as it will 
stand on the 19th of March next, the sum of $15,000, hereinbefore pro- 
posed to be annually appropriated for objects not connected with the build- 
ing and grounds, it will leave an annual amount from accruing interest of 
S30,310, which may go to the building fund, so long as the present in- 
vestment remains undiminished. 

But if we deduct this sum of $30,310 from the annual amount still to 
be provided for building purposes in each of the four last years of the 
building contract, as shown above, to wit: from the sum of $52,000, we 
shall have an annual excess of expenditure over available interest of 
$21,690, which annual excess must be provided for by sale of treasury 
notes; and as, in proportion as these are sold, the interest on them until the 
end of the term of the building contract will be lost to the building fund, 
the annual excess thus to be provided for by sale bf treasury notes will, if 
we suppose it to be drawn at the commencement of each year, (which is 
the most unfavorable supposition,) reduce the invested fund in the course 
of the four years ending 19th March, 1852, nearly $100,000, thus: 



167 [ 23 ] 



$21, GOO 00 


5/205 60 


21,690 00 


3,901 20 


21,690 00 


2,602 SO 


21,690 00 


1,301 40 


99,774 00 



I 



Excess during the first year - 
Four years interest on ditto - 
Excess during the second year 
Three years interest on ditto 
Excess during the third year 
Two years interest on ditto - 
Excess during the fourth year 
One year's interest on ditto - 



It appears, therefore, that, after setting aside sufficient appropriations for 
all objects now in progress, together with an adequate allowance for con- 
tingencies up to the 19th March, 1848, we may, commencing from that 
date, authorize the annual expenditure until the completion of the build- 
ing of fifteen thousand dollars for objects unconnected with the building 
fund; and then if we restrict the building fund to .$250,000, and provide 
that of the last $208,000 of that fund not more than one-fourth of the 
same — that is to say, $52,000 — shall be spent in each of the last four years 
of the contract, we shall be able to complete the building and grounds, in- 
cluding all expenses thereon, without withdrawing more than one hun- 
dred thousand dollars from the present invested funds of the institution. 

And as these invested funds, to wit: the sum of $755,169, amount to 
within $2,229! as much as the total amount of principal and interest by 
the charter conveyed to the institution, it follows, that by the proposed 
plan the building may be completed without withdrawing from the origi- 
nal funds of the institution, as they stood on the day it was chartered, more 
than about $102,000. 

To the conditions necessary to bring about a result which will be con- 
fessed to be desirable, there is not, the committee think, any just objec- 
tion . 

The building committee, after some experience, and a careful examina- 
tion of the subject, express in their report the opinion that a building fund 
of $250,000 will probably be sufficient. 

The expediency of applying to the building fund, for four years to come; 
the interest accruing over and above an annual sum of fifteen thousand 
dollars, alone remains to be considered. 

It is evident that the act organizing the institution contemplated the ap- 
plication of a portion of the current interest, while the building was m pro- 
gress, to its erection; for, after appropriating the accumulated interest for the 
erection of a building, it adds, in the fifth section, ''together with such sum 
or sums out of the annual interest accruing to the institution as may m any 
year remain unexpended, after paying the current expenses of the mstitu- 
tion." The solequestion, then, is, what amount of that interest may judi- 
ciously be thus applied? 

It will be admitted that the amount suggested for the current expenses 
of the institution until the building shall be completed, to wit: the annual 
sum of fifteen thousand dollars, is a sufficient one gradually to bring its 
plans into execution, provided a considerable portion of the same be not 
annually expended in the purchase of books and collections. 1 ^^e com- 
iTiittee think this cannot wisely or advantageously be now done; and that 
for the present, the only purchase made of books for the institution should 



[23 J 



168 



be, as heretofore expressed in the report of the Committee on Organization ,. 
of '^ such vahiable works of reference as in the prosecution of its plan may 
be required." In accordance with these views the committee report a reso- 
lution. 

If any considerable amount of books, beyond those required for present 
reference, be purchased at this time, they will lie in boxes, with much risk 
of injury, and no possibility of being accessible to the public. Nor, the 
committee think, will it be prudent or desirable while the main building 
is in progress, and while temporary arrangements must be made in one of 
the wings for the reception of such works as by purchase, by exchange, 
and from other sources, shall have accumulated in the library, to open that 
provisional library to the public. Few would be likely to resort to it as a 
place of study, amid the noise and confusion incident to the erection of an 
extensive building. 

Again, though no large sums be spent directly for books, for the pres- 
ent, every appropriation made for the publication of Transactions or other 
■works, to be distributed to learned and scientific societies throughout the 
world, is a virtual contribution to the library. It cannot be doubted that 
the exchanges to which, by such extended distribution, the institution 
will be entitled, will in many cases overpay, in the shape of additions to 
the library, the cost of the works distributed. 

And, finally, it should be remarked, that under the scale of expendi- 
ture herein proposed, the simi of a hundred and forty thousand dollars 
will be added to the original capital of the institution; making an addition 
to its income of eight thousand four hundred dollars annually, forever; 
one half of which, by the resolutions hereinafter recited, commonly called 
the compromise resolutions, will inure to the benefit of the library. It 
was doubted, at the time of the passage of these resolutions,, whether, 
under their operation, and supposing the entire income of the institution to 
be the interest from its original capital, the permanent annual appropria- 
tion for the purchase of books could exceed from four to five thousand 
dollars. 

By the operation of the present plan it may^ therefore, be considered as 
doubled, or nearly so. The additional four thousand two hundred dollars 
added by that plan annually, forever, to the libra.ry appropriation, is far 
more than an equivalent for the delay it presupposes, in the accumulation 
of works not wanted for immediate reference, or present purposes; a delay 
extending only to the period when suitable permanent arrangements can 
be made for their reception. 

In accordance with the views herein given, th© committee append to 
their report a series of resolutions, of which they recommend the passage. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

W. W. SEATON, 
ROBERT DALE OWEN, 
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, 

Cmnniittee. 

Resolutions appended to the report of Ejsecutive Committee. 

Resolved, That the balance on hand, standing to the credit of the 
chairman of the Executive Committee, on the first of December current, 
together with all interest accruing to the institution up to the 19th of 
March next, to wit: the interest due on the first of January next, and oa 



169 [ 23 ] 

the 17th of February next, amounting in all to tlie sum of $25,646^ be 
appropriated as follows — that is to say: 

1. To the publication of the first volume of the Sniithonian Contribu- 
tions to Science, two thousand dollars; being one thousand dollars in ad- 
dition to the thousand dollars appropriated for this object by resolution 
of the 26th of January last. 

2. To the publication of one thousand copies of a brief treatise, to be 
entitled " Hints on Public Architecture," heretofore authorized to be pub- 
lished by the building committee, to be illustrated with designs of the in- 
stitution buildings, &c,, two thousand dollars; being one thousand dol- 
lars in addition to the thousand dollars appropriated for this object by reso- 
lution of the 5th of February last. 

3. For experiments heretofore authorized to be instituted to determine 
the economical value of building-materials throughout the United States, 
five hundred dollars; being the same sum appropriated for that object by 
resolution of the 1st of March last, but still unexpended. 

4. To purchase philosophical and chemical apparatus, one thousand dol- 
lars; being a portion of the four thousand dollars appropriated for this ob- 
ject by resolution of the 4th of Decend3er last. 

5. To part of salary of the Secretary, fifteen hundred dollars. 

6. To the building fund, seventeen thousand dollars. 

7. To incidental expenses and contingencies, including the expenses of 
the board and its committees, sixteen hundred and forty- six dollars, or so 
much of that sum as may be required for these purposes. 

Resolved, That during each of the four years next following the 19th 
of March, 1848, being the four years throughout which the unexpired 
term of the building contract runs, the proportion of expenditure shall be 
as follows — that is to say: out of the interest annually accruing to the in- 
stitution, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars in each year may be appro- 
priated for the current expenses of the institution, exclusive of all expendi- 
tures whatever properly belonging to the building hind, but including the 
expense of the board and its cornniittees, the salaries of officers, includhig 
messenger, the expense of all publications, researches, or other similar 
undertakings, the purchase of books and apparatus, and all incidentals 
whatever, not connected with the expenditure on the building or grounds. 
And the remainder of the interest accruing to the institution shall, during 
each of these four years, be appropriated to the building fund. 

Resolved, That it is the deliberate opinion of this board that the enUre 
cost of the institution building— including the complete fitting up and fur- 
nishing of the same; lighting and heating, ventilating and draining the 
same; supplying the same with water; laying out in grass and planting in 
trees and shrubs the lot, fencing the same, both widi the present temporary 
fence and the ultimate permanent one; also all expenses lor superintend- 
ence of erection, including the cost of architect's office and other incidentals; 
so as to cover all expenses whatever that have been and are to be incurred 
on the building and on the lot on which it stands, until the comple- 
tion of the building and of the preparation of the lot, up to the IJth 
of March, 1852— shall under no circumstances exceed the sum expended 
thereon up to the 1st of this month, to wit: the sum of twenty- five thou- 
sand dollars, and seventeen thousand dollars by a preceding resolution 
appropriated to the building fund; together with the annually accruing 
interest over $15,000 in each of the four years next following the lyth ot 



[23] 



170 



March next, as in a former resolution provided, and the further sum of one 
hundred thousand dollars, to be raised by sale of that amount of the trea- 
sury notes now the property of the institution, to be sold>.at not less than 
their par value; which said suui of seventeen thousand dollars, together 
with said annual interest over and above fifteen thousand dollars, and said 
sum of one hundred thousand dollars now invested in. treasury notes, is here- 
by declared to be the building fund of the institution. And the building 
committee are hereby expressly instructed and required so to arrange their 
expenditures on the building and lot, including all items heretofore enu- 
merated, that these expenditures shall not exceed the amount of the said 
building fund, it being understood that the said, building committee have 
discretionary power in regard to such modifications and alterations as 
may suggest themselves in the progress of the building, within the limits 
of the said building fund, but no other. And if, in order to keep within 
the limits of expenditure by this resolution prescribed, it shall be necessary 
so to modify the plan as to reduce the cost of some portion of the building, 
the building committee are hereby authorized and empowered so to do. 

Resolved, That the building committee be, and they are hereby instruct- 
ed, so to arrange the expenditures from the said building fund that the 
amount paid out of it (exclusive of any balance that may remain, on the 
19th of March next, unexpended of the sum of seventeen thousand dol- 
lars hereinbefore appropriated) shall not, at the close of any one year of the 
last four years of the building contract, exceed an average annual expendi- 
ture, througiiout the said years, of fifty-two thousand dollars, to wit: at 
the end of one year an expenditure of fifty-two thousand dollars; at the 
end of two years an expenditure of a hundred and four thousand dollars, 
and so on. 

Resolved, That all appropriations heretofore made by this board for the 
erection of the institution building, and the preparation of the institution 
campus, including appropriations made on the 28th of January last for 
fitting up and furnishing the building, and for lighting and heating the 
same, also for laying out and planting and fencing the campus, be and 
the same are hereby rescinded, and the sole appropriations for these ob- 
jects are hereby declared to be those included in the preceding resolutions. 

Resolved, That, for the present, the resolution of the board passed on 
the fourth December last, and authorizing an appropriation of twenty 
thousand dollars for the purchase of books, and v/hich said appropriation 
is to commence from the 1st of .January next, shall be strictly construed 
to authorize only the purchase of such valuable Avorks of reference as the 
Secretary, or the Building or Executive Committee, may consider useful 
for present purposes, or otherwise likely to be immediately demanded in 
the prosecutions of the plan of the institution: Provided, however. That 
nothing in this nor in the preceding series of resolutions contained shall 
be construed to rescind, or in any way impair the force of, certain resolu- 
tions passed by the board on the 26th and 28th of January last, including the 
following: " Resolved, That for the purpose of carrying into effect the two 
principal modes of executing the act and trust pointed out in the resolu- 
tions herewith submitted, the permanent appropriations out of the accruing 
interest shall, so soon as the buildings are completed, be annually as fol- 
lows — that is to say: 

" First, for the formation of a library composed of valuable works per- 
taining to all departments of useful knowledge, and for the procuring, ar- 



171 [23] 

ranging, and preserving of the various collections of ilie institution, as well 
of natural history and objects of foreign and curious research, and of elegant 
art, as others, including salaries and all other general expenses connected 
with the same, excepting those of the first complete arrangement of all 
such collections and objects as now belong to the United States in the 
museum of the institution when completed, together with one-half of the 
salary of the Secretary, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars. 

" Secondly, for the preparation and publication of transactions, reports, 
and all other publications of the institution, including appropriations for 
original researches and premiums for original papers, for the delivery of all 
lectures and payment of all lecturers, and for all general expenses connect- 
ed with said lectures and publications, togetber with one-half of the salary 
of the Secretary, the remainder of the annually accruing interest, it being 
understood that all general and incidental expenses not specially connected 
with either of the above two great divisions of the plan of the institution 
shall be equally divided between them." And including also the follow- 
ing: •'■Ke.solved, That it is the opinion and intention of the board, that in the 
ap|)ropriation for the objects of the institution of any surplus of accrued 
interest which may remain after the completion of the buildings of the 
institution, an equal division shall be made between the two great 
branches; that is to say, one-half shall be appropriated to the library and 
museum fund, and the other half to the fund for original research, pub- 
lications, and lectures ; and that in regard to all other funds hereafter to 
accrue to the institution, the same division be made:" And provided 
also, That the present series of resolutions shall not be construed to re- 
scind or impair the force of a certain other resolution of the 2Gth of Jan- 
uary last, passed by the board, for the election of an Assistant Secretary, 
10 act as librarian, and whose salary it was therein declared should com- 
mence " whenever the building is ready for the reception of the library." 
And provided fu'ther, That nothing in the present resolutions contained 
shall be construed to take from the Executive Committee the power 
heretofore, to wit: by resolution of the 26th .January, granted to them, to 
make to the Assistant Secretary elect such compensation as they may deem 
reasonable for services he may render horn time to time, in making cata- 
logttes or performing other similar duties for the institution. 

Resolved, That there shall hereafter be one regular meeting of the Board 
of Regents, and no more, imless specially called according to the provi- 
sions of the act organizing the institution, and that said annual meeting 
be held on the first Wednesday in January of each year: Provided, That 
the regular annual meeting for the year eighteen hundred and forty-eight 
shall be held on the second Wednesday in December of that year. 



[23] 



172 

No. 6. 



Report of the Secretan/ of the Smithsonian Institution to the Board of 

Regents, December S, 1847. 

Gentlemen: A statement of the financial condition of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and of the progress made in the erection of the building, hav- 
ing been presented to your board by the committees charged with the care 
of these objects, it becomes my duty, as Secretary of the institution, to give 
an account of what has been done relative to the development of the plan 
of organization, and of the steps which have been taken in the way of 
carrying it into operation. 

In accordance with my instructions, I consulted with men of eminence, 
in the different branches of literature and science, relative to the details of 
the plan of organization, and arranged the various suggestions offered, in 
the form of the accompanying programme. This, after having been sub- 
mitted to a number of persons in whose knowledge and judgment I have 
confidence, is now presented to the board, with the concurrence of the 
Committee on Organization, for consideration and provisional adoption. I 
regret that my engagements have been such as to render it impossible for 
me to call upon many persons whose counsel would have been valuable, 
but I hope hereafter to avail myself of their advice in behalf of the iiistitu- 
tion. I also regret that I could not give the names of those whose sug- 
gestions have been adopted in the programme; the impossibility of ren- 
dering justice to all, has prevented my attempting this. Many of the sugges- 
tions have been offered by different persons, independently of each other; 
and, indeed, the general plan of the increase and diffusion of knowledge 
as adopted by the board, is such as would naturally arise in the mind of 
any person conversant with the history of physical science, and with the 
means usually employed for its extension and diffusion. 

The introduction to the programme contains a series of propositions, 
suggested by a critical examination of the will of Smithson, to serve as a 
guide in judging of the fitness of any proposed plan for carrying out the 
design of the testator. The first section of the programme gives the de- 
tails of the plan proposed for the increase and diffusion of knowledge by 
means of publication and original researches. The second section fur- 
nishes the details, so far as they can be made out at the present time, of 
the formation of a library, and a collection of objects of nature and art. 
These two plans combined, embrace the general propositions adopted by 
the Board of Regents at their last meeting, as the basis of future operations. 
It is intended in the proposed plan to harmonize the two modes of increasing 
and diffusing knowledge, and to give to the institution the widest influ- 
ence compatible with its limited income. That all the propositions will 
meet with general approval cannot be expected; and that this organization 
is the best that could be devised is neither asserted nor believed. To 
produce a priori a plan of organization which shall be found to succeed 
perfectly in practice, and require no amendment, would be difficult under 
the most favorable circumstances, and becomes almost impossible where 
conflicting opinions are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of 
tlie act establishing the institution are to be observed. It is not intended 
that the details of the organization, as given in the programme, should be 
permanendy adopted without careful trial; they are rather presented as 



173 [ 23 ] 

suggestions to be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into operation 
gradually and cautiously, with such changes, from time to time, as expe- 
rience may dictate. 

PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[Presented to the Board of Regents December 8, 1847.] 

INTRODUCTION. 

General considei^ations which should serve as a guide in adopting apian of 

organization. 

] . Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United States 
of America, " to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian 
Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion ot knowledge 



among men " 



2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the 
United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator. 

3. The institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently sup- 
posed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and perpetuate 
his name. 

4. The objects of the institution are — 1st, to increase, and 2d, to diffuse 
knowledge.^mong men. 

•5, These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of 
new truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, 
among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating and 
promoting the discovery of new truths, and can be most efficiently diffused 
among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be 
such as to enable the institution to produce results in the way of increas- 
ing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the existing 
institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provisionally, 
can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be abandoned, 
in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to make up for the loss of time occasioned by the delay 
of eight years in establishing the institution, a considerable portion of the 
interest which has accrued should be added to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the 
funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the construc- 
tion of the building; and not only should the first cost of the edifice be 
considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair, and of 
the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it. There 
should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by 
the plan of the organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be benefited 
by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure on local 
objects would be a perversion of the trust. 



[ 23 ] 174 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from the 
will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the act of 
Congress establishing the institution. These are a library, a museum, and 
a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to contain them. 

SECTION I. 

Plan of organization of the institution, in accordance with the foregoing 
deductions from the will of Smithson. 

To Increase Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering 
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re- 
searches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To DiFFifSE Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the different 
branches of knowledge; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general in- 
terest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By stimulating researches. 

1 . Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original me- 
moirs on all branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of \"olumes, in 
a quarto form, and entitled '^Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge." 

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be acccepted for pub- 
lication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowdedge 
resting on original research; and all unverified speculations to be rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the institution to be submitted for exami- 
nation to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the branch 
to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publication only in 
case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the institution, and 
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favorable 
decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the Transactions of 
literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the colleges 
and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining copies 
may be offered for sale; and the other carefully preserved, to form complete 
sets of the volumes, to supply the demand from new institutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs to be 
given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to Congress. 

II. By appropriating a portion of the income^ anniially, to special objects 
of research, under the direction of suitable peisons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by 
counsellors of the institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different obje'cts; so that m course 
of time; each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 



175 [ 23 ] 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be pubHshcrl, with 
the memoirs before mentioned^, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contri- 
butions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the 
problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, ma^net- 
ical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the forination of a 
Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination of 
the M'eight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of Hght; chemical 
analyses of soils and plants ; collection and publication of articles of science, 
accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, moral, 
and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical reseaiches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in 
American history. 

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the different 
races of men in North America; also explorations and accurate surveys of 
the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By the publicatio7i of a series of reports, giving an account of the 
new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all 
branches of knowledge not strictly professional. 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interesting, 
but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the reports 
may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the income of the 
institution, or the changes in the branches of knowledge, may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators, eminent in the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publications, 
domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report; to be 
paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-page of the 
report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons interested 
in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it, without pur- 
chasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribution; 
the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institutions, and 
sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the 

rejjerts. 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and 
meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, (fcc. 

3. Agriculture. 

4.' Application of science to arts. 



[23] 



176 



II. MORAL A^^D POLITICAL CLASS. 



5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, an- 
tiquities, &.C. 

6. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world ; penal reform, &c. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general in- 
terest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs, trans- 
lated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the direction of 
the institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposition of 
a given subject. 

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission of 
competent judges previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the 
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the table 
of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Committee on 
Organization, viz: the statistics of labor, the productive arts of life, public 
instruction, &c. 

SECTION II. 

Plan of orgatiization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of 
the Board of Regents, providing for the two modes of increasing and 
diffusing knowledge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the institution contemplated the 
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, in- 
cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the 
income into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by 
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before 
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library and 
a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceedings 
of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more important cur- 
rent periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing the 
periodical reports. 

5. The institution should make special collections, particularly of ob- 
jects to verify its own publications. 



177 [ 23 ] 

•6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of experi- 
mental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those mentioned 
above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States should 
be procured, in order that the valuable booky first purchased may be such 
as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and 
other materials, should be collected for rendering the institution a centre 
of bibliographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any 
work which he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase by 
donation, as rapidly as the income of the institution can make provision, 
for their reception, and therefore it will seldom be necessary to purchase 
any articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of arts casts of 
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be eiicouraged by providing a room, free of expense, 
for the exhibition of the objects of tlie Art- Union and oilier similar societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of anti- 
quities, such as those of the remains of ancient temptes, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides the 
Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act as 
librarian . 

14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence, with 
the advice of the Chancellor and other members of the establishment, of 
the literary and scientific operations of the institution; to give to the 
Regents annually ata account of all the transactions; of the memoirs which 
have been received for publication; of th« researches which have been 
made; and to edit, with the assistance of the hbrarian, the publications of 
die institution. 

15. The duty of the Assistarat Secretary, acting as librarian, will be, for 
the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and pur- 
chase, under the direction of the Secretary and a committee of the board, 
books and catalogues, and to procure the information before mentioned; to 
give information on plans of libraries, and to assist the Secretary in editing 
the publications of the institution and in the other duties of his office. 

IG. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
«ew objects of art; also distinguished individuals should be invited to give 
lectures on subjects of general interest. 

17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with the 
act of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the 
Smithso-niaii InstitutioUj other assistants will be required. 



Explanations and illustrations of the programme. 

Though the leading propositions of the programme have been fully dis- 
cussed by the board, yet it will be important to ofi"er some remarks in ex- 
planation and illustration of them in their present connexion. 
12, 



[23] 



178 



That the institution is not a national establishment, in the sense in whDsh 
institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must be evi- 
dent when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely given to the 
United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely: the estab- 
lishment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name of the 
donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of all the 
good which may be accomplished by means of the bequest. The operations 
ot the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be mingled as little as 
possible with those of the government, and its funds should be applied ex- 
clusively and faithfully to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men. 

That the bequest is intended for the benefit of men in general, and that 
its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even nation, 
may be inferred not only from the words of the will, but also from the 
character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote, from a scrap of 
paper in his own hand, the following sentiment bearing on this point; 
'^ The man of science has no country; the world is his country — all men, 
his countrymen." The origin of the funds, the bequest of a foreigner, 
should also preclude the adoption of a plan which does not, in the- words 
of Mr. Adams, "spread the benefits to be derived from the institution not 
only over the whole surface of this Union, but throughout the civilized 
world." " Mr. Smithson's reason for fixing tjie seat of his institution at 
Washington obviously was, that there is the seat of government of the 
United States, and tkere the Congress by whose legislation, and the Ex- 
ecutive through whoso agency, the trust committed to the honor, intelli- 
gence, and good faith of the nation, is to be fulfilled." The centre of 
operations being permanently fixed at Washington, the character of this 
city for literature and science will be the more highly exalted m proportion 
as the influence of the institution is more widely dift'used. 

That the terms iitcrf-ase and diffusion of knowledge are logically dis- 
tinct, and should be literally interpreted with reference to the will, nuistbe 
evident when we reflect that they are used in a definite sense, and not as 
mere synonyines, by all who are engaged in the pursuits to which Smithson 
devoted his life. In England there are two classes of institutions, founded 
on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. The Royal Society, the Astro- 
nomical, the Geological, the Statistical, the Antiquarian Societies, all have 
for their object the increase of knowledge; while the London Institution, the 
Mechanics' Institution, the Siu'ry Institution, the Society for the Diffusion 
of Religious Knowledge, the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, 
are all intended to difluse or disseminate knowledge among men. In 
our own country, also, the same distinction is observed in the use of the 
terms by men of science. Our colleges, academies, and common schools, 
are recognised as institutions partially intended for the diffusion of knowl- 
edge, while the express object of some of our scientific societies is the pro- 
motion of the discovery of new truths. 

The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowl- 
edge; though propositions have been frequently made for devoting the 
funds exclusively to the promotion of certain branches of science having 
more immediate application to the practical arts of life, and the adoption of 
these propositions has been urged on the ground of the conformity of such 
objects to the pursuits of Smithson; but an examination of his writings 
will sliow that he excluded from his own studies no branch of general 



179 [ 23 ] 

knowledge, and that he was fully impressed with the important philosoph- 
ical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great system ot 
truth. To restrict, therefore, the operations of the institution to a single 
science or art, would do injustice to the character of the donor, as well as 
to the cause of general knowledge. If preference is to be given to any 
branches of research, it should be to the higher, and apparemly more ab- 
stract^ to the discovery of new principles, rather than of isolated focts. And 
this is true even in a practical point of view. Agriculture would have tor- 
ever remained an empirical art, had it not been for the light shed upon it 
by the atomic theory of chemistry; and incomparably more is to be ex- 
pected as to its future advancement from the perfection of the microscope, 
than from improvements in the ordinary instruments of husbandry. 

The plan of increasing and dilfusing knowledge, presented in the first 
section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance Avith the sev- 
eral propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in the in- 
troduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design ot' interesting 
the greatest number of individuals in the operations of tlie institution, 
and of spreading its influence as widely as possible. It forms an active 
organization, exciting all to make original researches who are gifted with 
the necessary power, and diffusing a kind of knowledge, now only ac- 
cessible to the few, among all those who are willing to receive it. In 
this country, though many excel in the application of science to the prac- 
tical arts of life, tew devote themselves to the continued labor and patient 
thought necessary to the discovery and development of new truths. The 
principal cause of this want of attention to original research, is the want, 
not of proper means, but of proper encouragement. 'J'he publication of 
original memoirs and periodical reports, as contemplated by the programme, 
will act as a powerful stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by pla- 
' cing ni bold relief the real laborers in the field of original research, while 
it will afford the best materials for the use of those engaged in the diffu- 
sion of knowledge. 

The advantages which will accrue from the plan of publishing the vol- 
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, are various. In the 
first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favorably known 
wherever literature and science are cultivated, and to keep it in continual 
remembrance with each succeedmg volume, as long as knowledge is val- 
ued. A single new truth, first given to the world through these volumes, 
will forever stamp their character as a work of reference. The contribu- 
tions will thus form the most befitting monument to perpetuate the name 
of one whose hfe was devoted to the increase of knowledge, and whose 
ruling passion, strong in death, prompted the noble bequest intended to 
facilitate the labors of others in the same pursuit. 

Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs will 
afford to the institution the most ready means of entering into friendly 
relations and correspondence with all the learned societies in the world, 
and of enriching its library with their current transactions and procecdaigs. 
But perhaps the most important efiect of the plan will be that of giving to 
the world many valuable memoirs, which, on account of the expense of the 
illustrations, could not be otherwise published. Every one who adds 
new and important truths to the existing stock of knowledge, must be 
of necessity, to a certain degree, in advance of his age. lience the 
number of readers and purchasers of a work is generally in the inverse 



[23] 



180 



ratio of its intrinsic value; and consequently, authors of the highest 
rank of merit are frequently deterred from giving their productions to 
the world on account of the pecuniary loss to which the publica- 
tion would subject them. When our lamented countryman, Bowditch, 
contemplated publishing his commentary on La Place, he assembled his 
family and informed them that the execution of this design would sacri- 
fice one-third of his fortune, and that it was proper his heirs should be con- 
sulted on a subject which so nearly concerned them. The answer 
was worthy of the children of such a father: " We value," said they, 
''your reputation more than your money." Fortunately, in this in- 
stance, the means of making such a sacrifice existed; otherwise one of 
the proudest monuments of American science could not have been given 
to the world. In the majority of cases, however, those who are most 
capable of extending human knowledge are least able to incur the expense 
of the publication. Wilson, the American Ornithologist, states, in a letter 
to Michaux, that he has sacrificed everything to publish his work: ^' I 
have issued," he says, " six volumes, and am engaged on the seventh, but 
as yet I have not received a single cent of tlie proceeds." In an address 
on the subject of natural history, by one of our most active cultivators of 
this branch of knowledge, we find the following remarks, which are directly 
in point: '' Few are acquainted with the tact that from the small number 
of scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates, our naturalists not 
only are not paid for their labors, but sulfer pecuniary loss from their publi- 
cations. Several works on different branches of zoology, now in the course 
of publication, will leave their authors losers by an aggregate of ^15,000. 
1 do not include in this estimate works already finished — one, for instance, 
the best contribution to the natural history of man extant, the publication 
of which will occasion its accomplished author a loss of several thou- 
sand dollars. A naturalist is extremely fortunate if he can dispose of 200 
copies of an illustrated work, and the number of copies printed rarely exceeds 
250." It may be said that these authors have their reward in the reputa- 
tion which they thus purchase; but reputation should be the result of the 
talents and labor expended in the production of a work, and should not 
in the least depend upon the fact that the author is able to make a pecu- 
niary sacrifice in giving the account of his discoveries to the public. 

Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published in 
the Smithsonian Contributions free of expense, his labors will be given to 
the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of learned men; and 
his merits will be generally made known through the reports of the insti- 
tution. Though the premiums ofiered may be small, yet they will have 
considerable effect in producing original articles. Fifty or a hundred dollars 
awarded to the author of an original paper, will, in many instances, suf- 
fice to supply the books, or to pay for the materials, or the manual labor 
required, in prosecuting the research. 

There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to much 
discussion, and which, therefore, requires particular explanation; I allude 
to that wiiich excludes from the contributions all papers consisting merely 
of unverified speculations on subjects of physical science. The object of 
this proposition is to obviate the endless difficulties which would occur in 
rejecting papers of an unphilosophical character; and though it may in 
some cases exclude an interesting communication, yet the strict observance 
of it Will be found of so much practical importance that it cannot be dis- 



181 [ 23 ] 

pensed with. It has been supposed, from the adoption of this proposition, 
that we are disposed to iindervahie abstract speculations: on the contrary' 
we know that all the advances in true science— namely, a knowledge of the' 
laws of phenomena— are made by provisionally adopting well-con^ditioned 
hypotheses, the product of the imagination, and subsequently verifying* 
them by an appeal to experiment and observation. Every new hypothesis 
of scientific value must not only furnish an exact explanation of known 
facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind and quantity, the pjie- 
nomena which will be exfiibited under any given combination of cir- 
cumstances. Thus, in the case of the undulatory hypothesis of light, it 
was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the supposition were true 
that light consisted of waves of an ethereal medium, then two rays of light, 
like two waves of water under certain conditions, should annihilate each 
other, and darkness be produced. The experiment was tried, and the 
anticipated result was obtained. It is this exact agreement of the deduc- 
tion with the actual result of experience that constitutes the verification of 
an hypothesis, and which alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to 
a place in the Transactions of a scientific institution. It must be recollected 
that it is much easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few 
of all the hypotheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific 
verification. 

For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a 
memoir, and the precaution taken before it is accepted for publication, I 
would refer to the correspondence, given in a subsequent part of this report, 
relative to the memoir now in process of publication by the institution. 
As it is not our intention to interfere with the proceedings of other insti- 
tutions, but to co-operate with them, so far as our respective operafions are 
compatible, communications may be referred to learned societies for inspec- 
tion, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir, and abstracts of them 
given to the world through the bulletins of these societies, while the details 
of the memoirs and their expensive illustrations are published in the vol- 
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions. The officers of several learned 
societies in this country have expressed a willingness to co-operate in this 
way. 

Since original research is the most direct way of increasing knowl- 
edge, it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the bequest 
should be appropriated to this purpose, provided suitable persons can 
be found, and their labors be directed to proper objects. The num- 
ber, however, of those who are capable of discovering scientific prm- 
ciples is comparatively small; like the poet, they are ''born, not 
made," and, like him, must be left to choose their own subject, and 
wait the fitting time of inspiration. In case a person of this class has 
fallen on a vein of discovery, and is pursuing it with success, the better 
plan will be to grant him a small sum of money to carry on his investiga- 
tions, provided they are considered worthy of assistance by competent 
judges. This will have the double effect of encouraging him in the pursuit, 
and of facilitating his progress. The institution, however, need not depend 
upon cases of this kind, even if they were more numerous dian they are, 
for the application of its funds in the line of original research. There are 
large fields of observation and experiment, the cultivation of which, though 
it may afford no prospect of the discovery of a principle, can hardly fail 



[23] 



182 



to produce results of importance both in a practical and a theoretic point of 
view. As an illustration of this remark, I may mention the case of the in- 
vestigations made a few years ago by committees of the Franklin Institute, 
of Philadelphia. The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States 
placed at the disposal of this society a sum of money, for the purpose of 
making experiments Math referenre to the cause of the explosion of steam- 
boilers. A committee of the society v/as chosen for this purpose, which 
adopted the ingenious plan of writing to all persons in the United States en- 
gaged in the application of steam, and particularly to those who had observed 
the explosion of a steam-boiler. In this way opinions and suggestions in 
great variety, as to the cause of explosions, were obtained. The most 
plausible of these were submitted to the test of experiment: the results ob- 
tained were highly important, and are to be found favorably mentioned in 
every systematic work on the subject of steam which has appeared, in any 
language, within the last few years. New and important facts were es- 
tablished; and, what was almost of as much consequence, errors which had 
usurped the place of truth were dethroned. 

In the programme, examples are given of a few subjects of original re- 
search to which the attention of the institution may be turned. I will 
mention one in this place, which, in connexion with the contents of our 
first memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude to a small appro- 
priation made aniuially for researches with reference to the remains of the 
ancient inliabitants of our country. This is a highly interesting field, 
and what is done in regard to it should be done quickly. Every year the 
progress of civilization is obhterating the ancient mounds, cities and vil- 
lages are rising on the spots they have so long occupied undisturbed, and the 
distinctive marks of these remains are every year becoming less and less 
legible. 

In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affecting 
men in general by the operations of the institution, it is evident that the 
principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the pj-ess. Though lec- 
tures should be given in the city in which Smithson has seen fit to direct 
the establishment of his institution, yet, as a plan of general difiusion of 
knowledge, the system of lectures would be entireh'' inadequate; every 
village in our extended country would have a right to demand a share of 
the benefit, and the income of the institution would be insufficient to supply 
a tliousandth part of the demand. It is also evident that the knowledge 
diffused should, if possible, not only embrace all branches of general in- 
terest, so that each reader might find a subject suited to his taste, but also 
that it should differ in kind and quality from that which can be readily 
obtained through the cheap publications of the day. These requisites 
will be fully complied with in the publications of the series of reports pro- 
posed in the programme. A series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all 
the discoveries in science from time to time, and giving a well digested ac- 
count of all the important changes in the different branches of knowledge, 
is a desideratum in the Baiglish language. The idea is borrowed from a 
partial plan of this kind in operation in Sweden and Germany; and for an 
example of what the work should be, 1 would refer to the annual report to 
the Swedish Academy of its perpetual Secretary, Berzelius, on physical 
science. The reports can be so prepareil as to be highly interesting to the 
general reader, and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive 



183 [ 23 ] 

■cultivator of a particular branch of knowledge. Full references should 
be given, in foot-notes, to the page, number, or volume of the work from 
which the information was obtained, and where a more detailed account 
•can be found. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the preparation ot 
these reports should be intrusted only to persons profoundly acquainted 
with the subjects to whicli they relate — namely, to those who arc devoted 
to particular branches, while they possess a knowledge of general princi- 
ples. Sufficient explanations should be introduced to render the report in- 
telligible to the general reader, without destroying its scientific character. 
Occasionally reports may be obtained from abroad — as, for example, ac- 
counts of the progress of certain branches of knowledge in foreign coun- 
tries — and these may be translated, if necessary, and incorporated into other 
reports, by some competent person in this country. 

Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme pro- 
poses to publish occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. There 
are always subjects of general interest, of which brief expositions would 
be of much value. The preparation of these, however, should be intrusted 
to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be subjected 
to a revision by competent and responsible jitdges before they are given to 
the public. They may be presented in the form of reports on the existing 
state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may sometimes consist 
of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of literature and science, 
translated from foreign languages. The reports and treatises of the insti- 
tution, sold at a price barely sufficient to pay the expense of printing, will 
find their way into every school in our country, and will be used not as 
first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of reliable information for the 
teacher. 

The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been 
made out, the details of the part of the plan of organization directed by 
the act of Congress establishing the institution. The two plans, namely, 
that of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects 
of nature and art, are not incompatible, and may be carried on harmoni- 
ously with each other. The only effect which they will have on one 
another is that of limiting the operation of each, on account of the funds 
given to the other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical 
expenditure of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the plan 
of finance, suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the building, 
much good maybe effected in each of the two branches of the institution. 
To carry on the operations of the first, a working library will be required, 
consisting of the past volumes of the transactions and proceeclings of all 
the learned societies in every language. These are the original sources 
from which the most important principles of the positive knowledge of our 
day have been drawn. We shall also require a collection of the most im- 
portant current literature and science for the use of the collaborators of the 
reports; most of these, however, will be procured in exchange for the pub- 
lications of the institution, and therefore will draw but little from the li- 
brary fund. For other suggestions relative to the details of the library, I 
would refer you to the annexed communication from Professor Jewett, As- 
sistant Secretary, acting as librarian. (See appendix No. 1.) 

The collections of the institution, as far as possible, should consist of 
such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the 



[23] 



184 



visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan he 
kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals. A per- 
fect collection of all objects of nature and of art, if such could be obtained 
and deposited in one place, would form a museum of the highest interest; 
but the portion of the income of the bequest which caw be devoted to the 
increase and maintenance of the museum, will be too small to warrant 
any attempt towards an indiscriminate collection. It is hoped that in due 
time other means may be found of establishing and supporting a general 
collection of objects of nature and art at the seat of the general govern- 
ment, with funds not derived from the Smithsonian bequest. For the 
present, it should be the object of the institution to confine the application 
of the funds, first, to such collections as will tend to facilitate the study of 
the memoirs which may be published in the Contributions, and to estab- 
lish their correctness; secondly, to the purchase of such objects as are not 
generally known in this country, in the way of art, and the illustration of 
antiquities, such as models of buildings, &c.; and, thirdly, to the formation 
of a collection of instruments of physical research, which will be required 
both in the illustration of new physical truths, and in the scientific inves- 
tigations undertaken by the institution. 

Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the institution 
at Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on stated 
evenings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assem- 
blies, after the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution in 
London. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture^ 
new truths in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited. 
Besides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects by 
the officers of the institution, or by distinguished individuals invited for 
the purpose. 

Commencement of the operatmis of the institution. 

I was authorized, in connexion with the Committee on Organization, to 
commence the publication of the Smithsonian Contributions to Kuowl- 
edge, and to receive any memoir which might be presented on any subject, 
provided it was found, on examination, to furnish an interesting addition 
to the sum of human knowledge, resting on original research. The 
first memoir presented, and found to be of the character prescribed by 
the resolution of the board, was one on the remains of the ancient in- 
habitants of the North American continent. It contains the result ot 
several years' labor in the survey and exploration of the mounds and earth- 
works of the Mississippi valley, and will fiu-nish a highly interesting addi- 
tion to the antiquities of our country, which could not have been given to 
the world, but for the timely aid extended to it by this institution. The 
memoir was referred to the American Ethnological Society, with a request 
that a committee of its members might be appointed to examine and re- 
port on its character, as to fitness for publication in the Smithsonian Con- 
tributions to Knowledge. On the favorable report of this committee, and 
on the responsibility of the society, the memoir has been accepted for pub- 
lication. The following correspondence will serve to give an account of 
the work, and to illustrate the manner in which it is proposed to submit the 
papers which may be presented for pubUcation to a commission of com- 
petent judges. 



185 [ 23 ] 

CORRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE ACCEPTANCE FOR PUBLICATION OF THE 
ETHNOLOGICAL MEMOIR OF MESSRS. SQUIER AND DAVIS. 

From Messrs. Squier and Davis to the Sea-etary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Chillicothe, 0., May 15, 1847. 
Dear Sir: It is proposed in the recognised plan of organization of the 
Smithsonian Institution, of which you are the executive officer, to publish, 
undei the title of " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,^'' such original 
papers and memoirs " as shall constitute valuable additions to the sum of hu- 
man knowledge." Under the belief that it falls legitimately within the scope 
of the above plan, the undersigned herewith submit for acceptance and publi- 
cation, subject to the prescribed rules of the institution, a MS. memoir, entitled 
"Ancient Monuments OF the Mississippi Valley, comprisin a; the results of 
Extensive Original Surveys and Explorations : by £. G. Squier and E. H. Davis." 
The extent of these investigations, and their general character, are sufficiently 
indicated in the prefatory remarks to the volume. 
With high consideration, we are truly yours, 

E. GEO. SQUIER. 
E. H. DAVIS. 
Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



From the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the President of the Ameri- 
can Ethnological Society. 

Washington, June 2, 1847. 

Dear Sir : I am authorized by the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 
to publish, in the numbers of the " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge," 
any memoir which may be presented for this purpose, provided that, on careful 
examination by a commission of competent judges, the memoir shall be found 
to furnish a new and interesting addition to knowledge, resting on original re- 
search. The accompanying memoir, entitled '' Ancient Monuments of the Mis- 
sissippi Valley," 6)C., having been presented for publication, I beg leave to refer 
the same, through you, to the American Ethnological Society, with the re- 
quest that a committee of the members may be appointed to examine and 
report on its character, in reference to the particulars above mentioned. If the 
report of the committee be favorable, the memoir will be accepted for publica- 
tion ; full confidence being placed in the ability of the committee to judge o 
the character of the article, and in their caution in making up their opinion. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

Hon. Albert Gallatin, 

President American Etimological Society. 



[23] 



186 



Extract of a letter from the President of the American Ethnological Society to 
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

"New York, June 12, 1847. 

"Dear Sir: I have tlie honor to enclose a copy of the proceedings and 
resolutions of the New York Ethnoloorical Society upon the MS. work on 
American Antiquities, by Messrs. E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, submitted with 
your letter of the •2d inst. 

" I approve entirely of the resolutions and recommendations of the society. 

" Whatever may be the intrinsic value of the remains of former times which 
are found in the United States, ii is necessary that they should at least be cor- 
rectly described, and that existing gross errors should be corrected ; and I re- 
peat my conviction that, though ardent, Messrs. Squier and Davis are animated 
by that thorough love of truth which renders their researches worthy of entire 
confidence. 

" I have the honor to be, &c., 

"ALBERT GALLATIN. 
" Prof. J. Henry, 

" Secretary of Smitlisonian Institution.'' 



At a regular meeting of the American Ethnological Society, held at the 
house of the Hon. Albert Gallatin, on the evening of the 4th of June, the 
president laid before the members a communication from Professor J Henry, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting, for the examination and 
opinion of the society, a MS. work on the Ancient Aboriginal Monuments of 
the United States. On motion, the letter and accompanying MS. were refer- 
red to a committee consisting of Edward Robinson, D. D., John R. Bartlett, 
Professor W. W. Turner, Samuel G. Morton, M. D., and Hon. George P. 
Marsh, to report upon the same. At a subsequent meeting of the society, 
this committee submitted the following report and resolutions, which were 
unanimously accepted and adopted : 

REPORT. 

Tlie committee of the American Ethnological Society, to which was referred 
the communication of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting 
a manuscript work, entitled " Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Val- 
ley, comprising the results of Extensive Original Swveys and Explorations,'' 
by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, beg leave to report, that 

They have examined the work in question, and regard it not only as a new 
and interesting, but as an eminently valuable addition to our stock of knowl- 
edge on a subject little understood, but in which is felt a deep and constantly 
increasing interest, both in our country and abroad. In their judgment, the 
work is worthy of the subject, and highly creditable to the authors. Its chief 
features are, a scientific arrangement, simplicity, and directness of statement, 
and legitimate deduction from facts, while there is no attempt at mejre specula- 
tion or theory. If published, it will be an enduring monument to connect the 
names of the investigators in honorable and lasting remembrance with the great 
subject of American Archajology. 

The existence and progress of these investigations were made known to 
the society by correspondence early in the year 1846; and in June of that year 



/ 



187 [ 23 ] 

specimens of the relics recovered, accompanied by numerous maps and plans of 
ancient earthworks and sectional views of the mounds from which the remains 
were taken, were laid before the society by Mr. Squier in jjerson. These ex- 
cited deep interest and surprise in all who saw them; and the society imme- 
diately took measures to encourage further investigation, and secure the publi- 
cation, under its own auspices, of the important results already obtained, A 
few months later, the chairman of the present committee, being in Ohio, was 
enabled, through the kindness of Messrs. Squier and Davis, to visit several of 
the more important monuments in the immediate vicinity of Chillicothe, and, 
among these, "Mound City," so called, from which very many of the minor relics 
and specimens were procured. He was struck with tlie accuracy of ilie plans 
and drawings, as well as of the accounts which had been laid before the socie- 
ty, and bears full testimony to the fidelity and integrity with which the process 
of investigation and delineation has been conducted. 

During the last and present season the researches of these gentlemen have 
been actively prosecuted and widely extended, and the above work, largely il- 
lustrated, comprising the results, has been prepared. These results are so nu- 
merous and important, and consequently such is the extent and magnitude of 
the work itself, as to put its publication beyond any means which the society 
can command. Under these circumstances, your committee learn With pleas- 
ure that preliminary arrangements have been made for its publication by the 
Smithsonian Institution, among its "Contributions to Knowledge." It can only 
be a matter of sincere gratification to this society to see that which it cannot 
itself accomplish for the history and antiquities of our country, taken up and 
carried out under such favorable auspices ; and ihey cannot but rejoice that an 
opportunity is thus aiforded to that noble institution of opening its high career 
by fostering scientific researches into the interesting probleuis connected with 
the Ante-Columbian history and Aboriginal monuments of our own country. 

In view of these facts, your committee would recommend the adoption of the 
following resolutions by the society : 

Resolved, That this society regard the researches of Messrs. Squier and 
Davis as of very great importance in American Archaeology, and as casting much 
light upon our aboriginal antiquities, especially upon the character and habits 
of the earliest races which had their seat in the Mississippi valley. 

Resolved, That we regard the work prepared upon this subject as one of 
great general interest, and as worthy to be adopted ior publication by the Smith- 
sonian Institution, both as resting on original researches, and as aff'ording re- 
markable illustrations of the history of the American continent. 

Your committee would also append to this report the accompanying letters 
from Samuel G. Morton, M. D., of Philadelphia, and Hon. George P. Marsh, of 
Vermont, both members of this society, and joint membcis of this committee. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

EDWAED ROErNSON, > 

JOHN R. BARTLETT, > Committee. 

W. W.TURNER, ) 

New York, June, 1847. 



New York, June 9, 1847. 
I have examined with much interest and attention the manuscripts, drawings, 
and ancient relics in the possession of Mr. E. G. Squier, and am happy to 
say that my previous impressions concerning the value of the researches of that 
gentleman and his associate are fully confirmed. It is fortunate for the cause 
of American Archaeology that the first systematic attempt at its elucidation 



[23] 



188 



should have been conceived and executed in so fruly philosophical a sp'rr'it ; and 
rich as this age already is in antiquarian lore, it has, I think, received i'&w more 
important contributions than that y/hich the enlightened and generotjs zeal of 
these two private gentlemen is about to confer upon it. The Smithsonian col- 
lections could not begin with a more appropriate or creditable essay ; and I 
hope that evei7 focility may be afforded to the authors in bringing before the 
public the results of their honorable labors in as suitable a form and « ith as 
little delay as possible. 

GEO. P. MARSH. 

Philadelphia, June 8, 1847. 
As a member of the committee of the American Ethnological Society, ap- 
pointed to report on the memoir on American Archaeology, by Messrs. E. G. 
SquiERand E. H. Davis, I have great pleasure in saying that after a careful and 
repeated inspection of the materials in the hands of those gentlemen, I am con- 
vinced they constitute by far the most important contribution to the Archae- 
ology of the United States that has ever been offered to the public. Tiie num- 
ber and accuracy of their plans, sketches, &c., have both interested and sur- 
prised me, and it is gratifying to learn that the preliminary arrangements have 
been made for their publication under the honorable auspices of the Smithso- 
nian Institution. 

SAME. GEORGE MORTON. 



The memoirs of Messrs. Squierand Davis will occupy the greater portion, 
if not the whole, of the first volume of the Contributions. T'he illustra- 
tions will consist of fiftv-five quarto plates of the mounds, earthworks, and 
maps of the adjacent country; also, of about two hundred wood cuts, 
principally delineations of the various articles found in the mounds. 
Those who consider no branch of knowledge of any value but such as 
relates to the immediate gratification of our physical wants, have objected 
to the acceptance of this memoir as one of the first publications of the 
institution; but it must be recollected that the will of Smithson makes no 
restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge, and that each 
branch is, therefore, entitled to a share of his bequest. The Ethnological 
memoir of Messrs. iSquier and Davis was the first, of the proper character, 
presented for publication, and hence it was entitled to the first place in the 
series of Smithsonian Contributions. Besides this, it furnishes an addition 
to a branch of knowledge which is at this time occupying the attention of 
a large class of minds, and which caimot fail to be interesting to every 
intelligent person who would learn something of the changes to which 
man has been subjected. 

One of the volumes of the Contributions will contain a sketch of the life 
of Smithson, by the Chancellor. The materials for this have been col 
lected from tlie several volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Society, 
and the scientific journals of the beginning of the present, and the latter part 
of the last century. The first volume will be published as soon as the 
wood-cuts and plates, now in the course of preparation, are finished. 

Besides the memoirs before mentioned, a number of others have been 
presented, some of which, though apparently of interest, and the product 
of thought and labor, were not of the character required by the resolution 
of the board, and these have either been returned to the authors, or are in 



189 



[23] 



the possession of the Secretary. A number of others have also been pro- 
visionally adopted, or are in the course of preparation. Some of these are 
on the most abstruse parts of physical science, and all will do honor to the 
intellectual cliaracter of our country. Though the number of ori<>inal 
memoirs which will be found worthy of a place in the Contribntions\nll 
probably not be large, yet it will, perhaps, be best to set apart a definite 
portion of the income of the bequest— as, tor example, at present three or 
four thousand dollars annually— to defray the expense of this part of the 
plan of increasing knowledge. A considerable portion, however, of the 
sum thus expended will be returned to the institution in the form of addi- 
tions to its library. I may also suggest, in this place, the propriety of the 
adoption, by the board, of a resolution inviting all engaged in original re- 
search to send the results of their labors for publication in the Smithso- 
nian Contributions. 

The board also directed me to commence the collection of apparatus, 
and I accordingly sent orders to Europe, to the amount of twelve hundred 
dollars, for the purchase of such articles as could not be procured in the 
United States. Most of the instruments have been received, and will 
be found of importance, not only in the way of original research, but 
also in illustrating some of the most interesting and recent phenomena 
of physical science, as well as serving as samples for imitation to the art- 
ists of this country. It was thought that these articles would be admitted 
free of duty, and a petition to this effect was presented to the Secretary of 
the Treasury; but, though this officer is well known to be much interested 
in the prosperity of the institution, such is the nature of the law that the 
duty could not be remitted. 

There is an article of apparatus which, within a few years past, has 
opened almost a new world of research in the phenomena of life and 
organization, the use of which is now indispensable in advancing our 
knowledge of physiology and its kindred branches of science. I allude to 
the achromatic microscope, to increase the power of which, the artists of 
Germany, France, and England have vied with each other. On account 
of the small number of persons who are capable of constructing the proper 
lenses, the best specimens of this instrument are very scarce in this coun- 
try, and can be procured only at a great expense. Under these circum- 
stances, it was a matter of much interest to learn, from a source which 
could be relied upon, that an individual in the interior of the State of 
New York had successfully devoted himself to the study of the micro- 
scope, and that he was able to produce instruments of tliis kind which 
would compete with the best of those constructed in Europe. In order to 
do justice to the talents and labors of this person, as well as to furnish the 
institution with a valuable instrument of research, I requested him to con- 
struct a microscope, to be paid for out of the funds for the purchase of 
apparatus, provided that a commission, appointed by myself, should find it 
capable of producing certain effects. This proposition was accepted, and 
the result will probably be given to the board at the next meeting. 

Preparations have also been made for instituting various lines of physi- 
cal research. Among the subjects mentioned in the programme as an ex- 
ample for the application of the funds of the institution, is terrestrial magnet- 
ism. I need scarcely say that this is a subject not only of high interest in 



[23] 



190 



a theoretical point of view, but also in its direct reference to navigation and 
the various geodetical operations of civil and mihtary life. A resolution 
of Congress, authorizing the exploration of the mineral lands adjacent to 
the great lakes, has given to us the means of advancing this branch of 
knowledge with but liule expenditure of the funds of tlie institution. The 
Secretary of the Treasury readily agreed to the proposition that there 
should be added to tlie mineralogical and geological surveys of these 
regions, determinations of the dip, the variation, and the intensity of the 
magnetic f )rces, provided that tlie Smithsonian Institution would furnish 
one set of the instruments, and take charge of the direcdon of the obser- 
vations, and of reducing and publishing them. In the survey of the min- 
eral lands in the vicinity of lake iVlichigan under Dr. Jackson, Dr. Locke, 
of Cincinnati, has been employed with his own apparatus; and to supply 
the necessary instruments for the survey in Wisconsin, preliminary steps 
have been taken to procure other instruments from London. 

Another subject of research mentioned in the programme, and wiiich has 
been urged upon the immediate attention of the institution, is that of an ex- 
tensive system of meteorological observations, particularly with reference 
to the phenomena of American storms. Of late years, in our country, 
more additions have been made to meteorology than to any other branch 
of physical science. Several important generalizations have been arrived at, 
and definite theories proposed, which now enable us to direct our attendon, 
with scientific precision, to such points of observation as cannot fail to 
reward us with new and interesting results. It is proposed to organize a 
system of observations which shall extend as far as possible over the 
North American continent; and in order to this, it will be necessary to en- 
gage the co-operation of the British government. I have accordingly ad- 
dressed a letter on this subject to Lieutenant Colonel Sabine, corresponding 
secretary of the Royal Society, who assures me that, as soon as tlie plan 
is fully matured for this country, there will be no ditficuky in establishing 
a system of corresponding observations in the British provinces. I have also 
addres.'^ed letters to several gentlemen distinguished for their attainments in 
meteorology, asking for suggestions as to iheplan of observation; and 1 beg 
leave to refer the board to the accompanying report of Prof Loomis, of New 
York University, and also to the conmnmication of Prof. Espy, received in 
answer. (Appendix Nos. 2 and 3.) The former contains an exposition of 
the advantages which may be derived from the study of meteorology, and 
what has been done in this branch of science in this country, and what 
encouragement there is for the further prosecution of the same subject, 
together with a general plan of operations. The present time appears to 
be peculiarly auspicious for commencing an enterprise of the proposed 
kind. The citizens of the United States are now scattered over every part 
of the southern and western portion of North America, and the extended 
lines of telegraph will furnish a ready means of warning the more northern 
and eastern observers to be on the watch for the first appearance of an 
advancing storm. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

Secreta?'!/. 

To the Regents of the Simthso7iian Institution. 



191 [ 23 ] 



APPENDIX No. 1. 

Extract from a communicntion of Professor Jnvett, Assistant Secretary 
of the institution, acting as librarian. 

My dear sir: As I do not expect to have the pleasure of seeing yon a^ain 
before the meeting of the Regents, I will, with your indulgence, refer to 
some of the principal matters which will require attention in commencing 
the library. They would no doubt all occur to you in their order, but I 
have thought you might find it convenient to have this part of the busi- 
ness in some degree prepared to your hands. A great deal of preparatory 
work is to be gone through with, before any books can be placed on the 
shelves. 

1. On the plan proposed for the library, it seems to me that the first 
thing to be done is to make arrangements for obtaining catalogues, printed 
or in manuscript, of the principal libraries of the United States; to ex- 
amine these libraries, as far as can be done personally, in order to know 
their general character, the statistics of their increase, i&c; and to form 
such alliances with the librarians as will be indispensable in making the 
library of the institution, in conformity with the suggestion of Dr. Bache, 
a supplemental one, and a centre of bibliographical reference. Some 
libraries possess printed catalogues complete nearly down to the present 
time; others are several years behindhand. It will be necessary to pro- 
cure manuscript catalogues in continuation of those which have been print- 
ed, and to make arrangements for receiving, fiom month to month, or from 
j'-ear to year, lists of all future accessions. These supplementary cata- 
logues should all be prepared on a uniform plan. The titles should be written 
on cards of the same size, so that they may be placed together in one al- 
phabetical arrangement, in order to facilitate research. A mark placed 
on the back of each card will designate the library from which it came. 
NoWj in every library with which we are in correspondence some one must 
be employed to do this. It would be merely clerk's labor, where the cata- 
logues are properly kept, and no doubt the librarian or assistant might in 
every case be induced to undertake it for a small compensation. 

2. The next thing to be done will be to make arrangements for pro- 
curing the books to which we are entitled by the 10th section ^f the char- 
ter of the institution. Unless something be done, this provision, in course 
of time, will bring in comparatively few books in a year. I have no doubt 
that publishers generally would readily send their books, if the subject were 
properly presented to them, and arrangements made by which they could 
transmit them to Washington without subjecting the institution or them- 
selves to expenses altogether disproportioned to the value of the books. 
It has occurred to me that perhaps the several district clerks might be in- 
duced to attend to the business: it is perhaps legally their duty to do so, but 
I suppose it would be unsafe to rely upon their performing faithfully such an 
unexpected duty, unless they received for it some additional compensation. 
Besides this, a circular might be printed and sent to pubhshers, setting 
forth the advantages which would result directly to the cause of letters, 
and indirectly to themselves, from compliance with this requirement. By 
these means I think we should obtain nearly all the publications of impor- 
tance issued from the American press. 



[23] 



192 



3. The selection of books for the first purchase must be made. This 
will, I suppose, comprise three classes of works: 1. Those which may be 
immediately needed in the scientific department; 2. Bibliographical works 
and descriptions, histories and catalogues of similar institutions; and, 3. 
The general collection, consisting of the memoirs, transactions, and jour- 
nals of the learned societies of Europe and America. These three classes of 
books will form a library quite unique, and one of great utility. The 
catalogue, if it be made with fulness and accuracy, will be a valuable pub- 
lication. I tliinlv, further, that a somewhat extended list of books should 
be made out for future purchases. These lists should be intrusted to 
honest and faithful men in some of the principal book marts in Europe, 
with orders to buy the books whenever they can find them — at say one- 
half ^Ae ordinary prices. In this way we should obtain at very low prices 
great numbers of the books which we shall want. Of course, the same 
list should not be left \vith different men. The work should be done 
with care, and by consultation with the best scholars in the country. It 
will be difficult to find the necessary bibliographical helps. The best col- 
lecdon of them in the country is in the library of the Brown University, 
but this is very imperfect. 

4. The first purchases are to be made, and the arrangements for future 
purchases. These, of course, should not be commenced until the lists are 
as far completed as they can judiciously be in this country. 

5. Another subject contemplated in the programme of organization, and 
which should receive immediate attention, is the procuring of copies of some 
of the most celebrated loorks of art. It will probably be best to confine the 
purchases at first principally to plaster casts of some of the finest specimens 
of ancient and modern statuary. These can be procured very cheap, and 
convey, of course, a perfect representation of the original. I have no doubt 
that for a public institution, and one under national auspices, we could, 
whenever we desire it, obtain permission to take casts directly from the 
statues. 

The expense of doing so would of course be somewhat greater than 
that of purchasing such copies as might be found in the market, but a 
small difference in expense is not to be thought of in such .a case. It 
would further be desirable to commence the purchase of the models of an- 
tiquities, such as models in cork of some of the houses, temples, theatres, 
baths, &c., &c., in Pompeii and Herculaneum. These can be procured 
at comparatively small prices. Models of every interesting part of Pompeii 
which has been excavated, presenting in miniature a perfect view of nearly 
the whole on the scale of 1 foot to 150, might be procured for about ,"$2,000. 
It might also be well to procure a few Etruscan vases; also a few antique 
coins and medals, sufficient to convey some illustration of numismatics, as 
a subsidiary branch of history. The Regents should of course decide 
what proportion of the appropriation for collections should each year be 
expended for these purposes. I will merely remark that $1,000, or even 
$500 at the outset, prudently expended, would procure a very interesting 
collection. 

I have thus stated quite in detail the work which must be done before 
the library can be ready for use, or rather before any part of it can be placed 
upon the shelves. Before it can be ready for use, much more is to be done 
in arranging and cataloguing. To lay properly the foundation of a large 



193 [ 23 ] 

fibrary is a slow work, and much time must necessarily be consumed in 
producing but small visible results. 

I am, my dear sir, very truly, your friend and servant, 

C, C. JEWETT. 
Professor Henry, LL. D., 

Secretary ISniitlisonian Institution, 



APPENDIX No. 2. 

Report on the Meteorology of the United States : By Professor Loomis 
Submitted to the Secretary of tlie Smithsonian Institution . 

My dkar sir: Believing that the science of meteorology has noM'- ar- 
rived at that stage of advancement in which a more powerful combination 
of observers is needed to secure any rapid progress, I fully concur iu the 
importance of establishing an extended system of observations under the 
direction of the Smithsonian Institution, and propose in this report briefly 
to inquire, 

I. What advantages society may expect to derive from the study of me- 
teorology, particularly that branch of it which relates to the phenomena of 
storms. 

II. What has already been done in this country, 1st, towards making 
the necessar}?" observations; and, 2d, towards deducing from the observa- 
tions general laws. 

III. What encouragement there is to a further prosecution of the same 
a'esearciies; and, 

IV. I shall offer a plan for securing these advantages in their fullest ex- 
tent. 

I. Of what importance to society is the study of meteorology? 

Very litde argument is needed to prove that our comfort and coavenience, 
and not unfrequently our lives and property, are dependent upon meteoro- 
'logical phenomena. This is proverbially true of the mariner. The mo- 
ment he embarks upon the treacherous sea, he finds himself at the mercy 
of the winds. His life often depends upon the fidelity with which he 
watches every change in the aspect of the sky. In a single hour he may 
exchange the deceptive calm for the fatal tornado. The number of dis- 
asters upon the sea is friglitful, and is far greater than is generally known. 
In the gale of December 15, 1S39, 89 vessels were wrecked on the Massa-^ 
chusetts coast; and of these, 61 on a single cape. In the great hurricane of 
17S0, I'S battle-ships were lost, and 16 more dismasted. England and 
America alone suffer an annual loss from wrecks of more than 1,000 ves- 
sels, and nearly one-half of this is on the American coast. 

But how can the study of meteorology benefit the sailor? Will it en- 
able him to calm the tempest — to subdue the raging of the sea ? This we 
do not expect; yet, if he can anticipate the approach of a storm even by a 
few hours, he may generally place himself beyond the reach of its lUry. 
Is it in the power of science to enable the navigator to anticipate the 
coming tempest? If so, then.it would be difficult to name a subject 
of more vital imnortance to our commerce. How far this object has been 
13 



[23] 



194 



already attained, and what encouragement there is to expect further dis- 
coveries, I shall consider hereafter. 

The sailor is not the only person who has an interest in the study of 
meteorology. Although but a small part of the population of the Uniied 
States are directly engaged in foreign commerce; yet so important has this 
department of industry become, and so interwoven Avith all the business 
of the country, that there is not a trade or profession which does not feel 
the shock of any great disaster at sea. Aside from this indirect interest, 
the farmer is directly dependent upon the weather for the consummation of 
his plans, almost equally with the sailor. Severe drought or excessive 
rains, untimely frost or a scorching sun, may blast all the hopes of the 
husbandman. Here it may be asked, do you expect to produce rain or 
sunshine at pleasure? Probably not. But if we can anticipate the gene- 
ral character of a season, the farmer may regulate his time of planting or the 
nature of his crops, so as to be least injuriously affected by unpropitious 
weather; so that, if we cannot strip the lightning of its power, v/e may at 
least direct it harmlessly to the earth. 

Again, an extensive series of meteorological observations may prove of 
immense importance to the scientifie physician. It cannot be doubted 
that the salubrity of a climate is to a great extent dependent upon its me- 
teorology — on its mean temperature, the range of the thermometer, the 
suddenness of iis changes, the moisture of the air, excessive rains or un- 
usual droughts, &c. To trace the connexion between these causes and 
prevalent diseases, requires an accumulation of precise meteorological ob- 
servations made in every variety of exposure, and continued for a long pe- 
riod of time. That it is possible to discover such a connexion, if it really 
exist, cannot adm'it of a reasonable doubt; nor is it difficult to anticipate 
the important consequences which must flow from it. To discover the 
cause of disease is the first step towards a curej and it is by no means 
chimerical to suppose that a complete system of meteorological observations- 
throughout the United States might be the means of extending the dura- 
tion of human lite. 

It cannot, then, be questioned that meteorology is a subject of the greatest 
practical importance, joromV/eof' it has any solid foundation for a science. If 
the laws of storms can be discovered, this knowledge must be of the 
highest importance to mankind, particularly to those who are employed in 
navigating the sea. If the prevalent character of a season can be antici- 
pated, it would save the husbandman much bitter disappointment from the 
failure of his crops. If the influence of cliuiate upon disease could be 
detected, it might add years to the mean duration of human life. What 
encouragement there may be to anticipate that these results will ever be at- 
tained, I shall consider after inquiring — 

II. What has already been done for the promotion of meteorology, 

1, In the way of making the necessary observations. 

Previous to the year 1819, no combmed systematic effort had been made 
in this country for the promotion of meteorology. Registers had been in- 
dustriously kept by various private individuals, but they were without 
any concerted action. In 1819, under the direction of the then Secretary 
of War, John C. Calhoun, a system of meteorological observations was 
commenced at the different military posts, which has been continued to the 
present time. This was a highly important movement, and was prompted 
by a most liberal spirit. It has furnished us with an approximate knowl- 



195 



[23] 



edge of the mean temperature of a considerable number of stations, many 
of them remote from the more populous parts of the United States. It 
should, however, be remembered that the instruments provided never ex- 
ceeded a thermometer and a rain-gauge ; and the observations, therefore 
had of necessity a limited range. ' 

In 1825, a similar system of observations was introduced into the State 
of New York, almost without modification. Each of the academies incor- 
porated by the Board of Regents was furnished with a thermometer and a 
rain-gauge, and was required to keep a register, affer a prescribed form, in 
order to be entitled to a portion of the pubhc literary fund. Tliis system 
has novy continued hv more than twenty years, and tbe nmnber of 
academies reporting has increased from ten to forty. The plan was highly 
creditable to the public spirit and scientific taste of New York. It was a 
movement in advance of pubhc sentiment in the other States, and the ob- 
servations were, perhaps, as extensive as it was expedient to undertake at 
that time. These observations have determined, with considerable accu- 
racy, the mean temperature of the State; and the annual report contains 
a vast amount of important meteorological statistics. 

More recently, Pennsylvania has set an example of the same kind to her 
sister States. In 183T the legislature of that State appropriated .§4,000 for 
the advancement of meteorology; and out of this sum, which was placed 
at the disposal of a joint committee of the American Philosophical Society 
and Franklin Institute, a barometer, two common thermometers, a self- 
registering thermometer, and a rain-gauge, were purchased for each county 
in the State, to be placed in the hands of some skilful observer who 
should volunteer to keep a journal of the weather, according to a com- 
mon form prescribed by the committee. The observations were com- 
menced with little delay, and have been regularly continued. Here are 
made observations of the barometer and thermometer three times a day; of 
the self-registering thermometer; the winds estimated for sixteen points of 
the compass; the depth of rain; and, at some stations, observations of the 
dew-point. 

In the year 1843, the system of observations at the military posts was 
reorganized upon a scale more in accordance with the claims ot science. 
They now comprise observations of the barometer, attachf^d and external 
thermometer, wet-bulb thermometer; direction and force of the wind; di- 
rection, velocity, and amount of clouds; each at four hours of the day, 
viz: sunrise, 9 a. m., 3 and 9 p. m.; together Avith the amount of rain, 
and the times of its beginning and ending. 

Thus it appears we have observations from the general government at 
about sixty posts, stretching along the entire Atlantic coast, the gulf of 
Mexico, the Indian territory beyond the Mississippi, and the chain of 
the northern lakes. Next come the observations of two large States, 
New York and Pennsylvania. And then we have amateur observers, 
pretty numerous in New England — scattered more sparingly over the south 
and west. 

I now come to the inquiry, what progress has been made, 

2, Towards deducing from these observations general laws. 

In the list of philosophers who have contributed to create science out of 
the crude materials furnished by observation, I shall first mention Mr. 
Redfield. His first paper on the storms of the Atlantic coast appeared in 
April, 1831; in volume 20 of the American Journal of Science. This 



[23] 



196 



paper gives a full account of the hurricane of September, 1821, which was 
traced from the West India islands northward along the whole line of our 
coast. It contained also a notice of the storm of August 17, 1830, and two 
or three other storms of the same year. From a comparison of all the ob- 
servations, Mr. Redfield derived the conclusion that those storms were 
great whirlwinds. In 1833 he published the following general proposi- 
tions, as embodying the results of his investigations: 

1 . The severe storms of the Atlantic coast often originate in the tropical 
latitudes, where they are distinguished by the name o( Iturricanes. 

2. These storms cover, at the same moment of time, a surface whose 
diameter varies from one to five hundred miles, and in some cases they 
have been much more extensive. Ttiey act with diminished violence 
towards tiie exterior, and with increased energy towards the interior. 

3. While south of the parallel of 30° these storms pursue their course 
towards the west, on a track which inclines gradually to the northward. 
In the vicinity of latitude 30° their course changes somewhat abruptly to 
the northward and eastward, and the track continues to incline gradually 
to the east, towards which point, after leaving the lower latitudes, they ad- 
vance with an accelerated velocity. The rate of progress may be estimated 
at from 12 to 30 miles an hour. 

4. The duration of the storm at any place within its track depends upon 
its extent, and the rate of velocity with which it moves. 

5. The direction of tlie wind over the greater portion of tlie track is not 
the direction of the progress of the storm. 

6. In the lower latitudes, while drifting to the westward, the direction of 
the wind at the commencement of these storms is from a northern quarter, 
usually from northeast to northwest, and during the latter part of the gale, 
it blows from a southern quarter of the horizon. 

7. North of the parallel of 30°, and while pursuing their course to the 
nortihward and eastward, these storms commence with the wind from an 
eastern or southern quarter, and terminate with the wind from a western 

quarter. 

8. On the outer portion of the track, they exhibit at their commence- 
ment a southerly wind, which, as the storm comes over_, veers gradually to 
the westward, in which quarter it tenuinates. 

9. Along the central portion of the track, the first force of the wind is 
from the southeast; but after blowing for a certain period, it changes sud- 
denly to an opposite point, fi-om which quarter it blows with equal vio- 
lence till the storm has passed over: it is under this portion of the storm 
that we notice the greatest fall of the barometer, and the mercury usually 
begins to rise a short time previous to the change of wind. 

10. On the inner portion of the track the wind commences from a more 
eastern or northeastern point of the horizon, and after-wards veers by north 
to a nordiwest or westerly quarter, where it finally terminates. 

11. Hence Mr. Redfield infers that the portion of the atmosphere which 
composes the body of the storm blows in a horizontal circuit around a verti- 
cal axis of rotation, which is .carried onward with the storm, and that the 
direction of the circuit is from right to left. 

12.. The barometer always smks while under the first portion of the 
storm, and rises again under the last portion of the gale. 

In 1835 Mr. Re'dfield published an analysis of several additional storms 
which visited the American coast, and accompanied his paper with a chart, 



197 [ 23 ] 

upon which eleven of tliese tracks were carefully represented. In subse- 
quent years Mr, Redfield continued his investigations, and in IS46 he 
published an analysis of three additional hurricanes, making sixteen storms 
whose tracks are delineated upon his chart of the Atlantic coast. The re- 
siilts of all these investigations served to confirm substantially the conclu- 
sions published in 1 833. 

In the Journal of the Franklin Institute for April, 1S36, Mr. Espy 
co)nmenced the pnblication of a series of essays, in which he announced a 
new theory of storms; and he has since continued his researches up to 
the present time. The following generalizations, given in his own words, 
are the latest at which he has arrived: 

1st. The rain and snow storms, and even the moderate rains and snows, 
travel from the west towards the east, in the United States, during the 
months of January, February, and March, which are the only months yet 
investigated. 

2d. There is a depression of the barometer near the central line of 
the stonn. 

3d. The central line of minimum pressure is generally of great length 
from north to south, and moves sideforeniost towards the east. 

4th. This line is sometimes nearly straight, but generally curved, and 
most Irequenlly with the convex side towards the east. 

5th. The velocity of this hue is such, that it travels from the Mississippi 
to the Connecticut river in about twenty-four hours; and from the Con- 
necticut to St. John, Newfoundland, in nearly the same time, or about 
thirty-six miles an hour. 

6th. When the barometer falls suddenly in the western part of New 
England, it rises at the same time in the valley of the Mississippi, and also 
at St. John, Newfoundland. 

7th. In great storms, the wind, for several hundred miles on both sides 
of the line of minimum pressure, blows towards that line directly or ob- 
liquely. 

Sth. The force of the wind is in proportion to the suddenness and 
amount of the barometric depression. 

9th. In all great and sudden depressions of the barometer, there is much 
rain or snow; and in all sudden great rains or snows, there is a great fluc- 
tuation of the barometer. 

10th. Many storms are of great and unknown length from north to 
south, reaching beyond our observers in the gulf of Mevico, on the one 
hand, and beyond the northern lakes on the other, while their east and west 
diameter is comparatively small. The storms, therefore, move side- 
foremost. 

11th. Most storms commence in the '^ far west," beyond the stations of 
our most western observers; but some commence in the United States. 

12tli. When a storm commences in the United States, the line of mini- 
mum pressure does not come from the " flu- west," but commences with 
the storm, and travels with it towards the east. * 

13th. There is generally a lull of wind at the hue of minimum pressure, 
and sometimes a calm. 

14th. When the wind changes to the west, the barometer begins to rise. 

15tli. There is generally but little wind near the line of maxmunn pres- 
sure, and on each side of that line the winds are irregular, but tend out- 
wards from that line. 



[23] 



198 



16th. The fluctuations of the barometer are generally greater in the 
northern than in tlie southern parts of the United States. 

ITtli. The fluctuations of the barometer are generally greater in the 
eastern than in the western parts of the United States. 

]8th. In the northern parts of the United States, the wind, in great 
storms, generally sets in from the north of east, and temiinates from the 
north of west. 

19th. In the southern parts of the United States the wnnd generally sets 
in from the south of east, and terminates from the south of west. 

20th. During the passage of storms the wind generally changes from 
the eastward to the westward by the south, especially in the southern parts 
of the United States. 

The importance of verifying, modifying, or refuting these generaliza- 
tions, will appear more fully by a consideration of the following theory, 
which first led to the adoption of the plan of laying down the phenomena 
of storms on maps, as here recommended to you: 

1st. When the air near the surface of the earth in a particular locality 
acquires a higher temperature or a higher dew-point than that of surround- 
ing regions, it will ascend, on account of a less specific gravity — perpen- 
dicularly if there is a calm. 

2d. As it ascends it comes under less pressure and expands, and be- 
comes colder by expansion, about one degree and a quarter lor each hun- 
dred yards. 

3d. The dew-point falls about one-quarter of a degree, by the expansion 
of the vapor, for each hundred yards; and, therefore, when the ascending 
air rises as many hundred yards as the dew-point is below the temperature 
of the air at the surface of the earth in decrees of Fahrenheit, the cold of 
expansion of the air will begin to condense the vapor contained in it, and 
thus form cloud. 

4th. As soon as the vapor begins to condense into cloud, the latent 
caloric will begin to be evolved, which will diminish the cooling eflect of 
its expansion in its further ascent, sometimes a little more and sometimes 
a little less than one-half, according as the dew-point is above or below 
70° of Fahrenheit. 

5th. When the air has ascended high enough to have condensed by 
the cold of expansion, from diminished pressure, one-hundredth of its 
Aveight of vapor, its temperature will be about 48° warmer from the evolu- 
tion of the latent caloric than it would be by going up to the same height 
without vapor in it, and will then be about 48° warmer than the air around 
the cloud at the same elevation, and of course about one-tenth lighter, 

6th. The air in the cloud being thus specifically much lighter than the 
surrounding air, will ascend, and, in ascending, spread out in all direc- 
tions above, overlapping the air of surrouiiding regions, and thus causing 
the barometer to rise all round the cloud to a distance proportional to the 
magnitude of the cloud. 

7th. Whilst the barometer is rising all round the cloud from the in- 
creasing weight of the air, it will fall under the central regions of the cloud 
in proportion to the quantity of air spreading out above. 

8th. The air near the surface of the earth will now rush in on all sides 
from the regions around the cloud, where the barometer stands high, to- 
wards the central regions, where the barometer stands low, with a volocity 
proportional to the square root of the difference of pressure. 



199 [ 23 ] 

9lh. The air thus rushing in under the cloud on ail sides will ascend, 
and carry up its vapor with it, and will condense it into cloud by the cold 
of expansion from diminished pressure, as before, and thus the process of 
cloud-forming will be continued. 

10th. As the principal part of this upmoving current of air is in the upper 
regions of the atmosphere, which move all the year, over the United States, 
from west to east, the cloud, with its whole column of light air, must also 
move in the same direction. 

" Dr. Hare has turned his attention to the electrical phenomena which 
accompanies the more violent exhibitions of the storm when it assumes 
the form of a tornado. He agrees with Mr. Espy in opinion as to in- 
ward and upv\^ard direction of the wind towards the middle of the storm, 
but differs from him with respect to the cause of the current. He proposes 
a definite theory of the phenomena of the tornado, founded on well known 
laws of electrical action, combined with facts of observation. It has been 
fuUy^ established by experiment in different parts of the earth that there is 
an accumulation of positive electricity in the upper regions of the atmo- 
sphere, that the surface of the earth relative to the lower stratum of air is 
slightly negative, and that space void of air may be considered an electrical 
conductor. From these facts Dr. Hare infers that the surface of the 
earth, the surrounding atmosphere, and the space immediately around 
and exterior to the atmosphere, form three concentric spheres, of which the 
outer and inner are constantly charged with opposite electricity. The 
arrangement is, therefore, precisely that of a charged leyden jar, of which 
the exterior sphere is analogous to the outer coating, the surface of the earth 
to the inner, and the intervening atmosphere to the non-conducting glass. 
The clouds are insulated conductors floating between the two coatings, and 
therefore liable to be variously charged by induction as their position rela- 
tive to each other and the two coatings is varied. In some cases the ar- 
rangement may be such as to form a series of steps of intermediate con- 
ductors, each electrified by induction, so as to produce a violent ascending 
current ox conveetioe discharge from the surface of the earth upwards. 

"■ The theories of Redfield, Espy, and Hare may not be found incompati- 
ble in all points; and whatever may be the future state of our knowledge 
relative to them, they point to definite objects of inquiry, which cannot 
fail to reward proper observation with a rich harvest of important results." 

The idea occurred to me that more might be learned liom a complete 
analysis of a single storm, than from a partial analysis of several storms; 
and that any storm of strongly marked characteristics, if fully investi- 
gated, mast p'ove a complete experimeMum crucis, at least between 
the theories of Messrs. Redfield and Espy. I accordingly selected the 
storm of December 20, 1836, for a thorough examination. I obtained 
barometric observations fiom 27 different stations within the United States 
and the neighboring British possessions. I also obtained meteorological 
journals, not containing barometric observations, from 28 military posts, 
from 42 academies in the State of New York, and from five other stauons; 
making 102 in. all, besides several stations beyond the probable hmils of 
the storm. . 

In analyzing these materials, the barometric observations were all graphi- 
cally represented by curves, showmg the fall and rise of the barometer, 
with the time of its minimum height. Then joining by a hnc all those 
places where ih« minimum of the barometer occurred at the same instant, 



[ 23 ] 200 

we are furnished with the means of measuring the rate of progress of the 
great atmospheric wave. On the southern border of the United States, this 
velocity varied from 17 to 29 statute miles per hour; and on the northern 
border from 17 to 37 miles. The leading characteristics of this storm were 
as follows: After a clear and cold interval, with barometer high, the wind 
commenced blowing from the south. The barometer fell rapidly; the 
thermometer rose; rain descended in abundance. The wind veered sud- 
denly to northwest, and blew with great violence. The rain was succeeded 
by hail or snow, which continues but a short time. The barometer rises 
rapidly; the thermometer sinks as rapidly. These changes are experienced 
progressively from west to east. 

This storm was not circular. The area of rain and snow was about 
500 miles broad from east to west. Its length from north to south was 
known to be 800 miles, and probably was not less than 1,500. For nearly 
a day before the crisis, the wind blew from the southern Cjuarter, and gen- 
erally for several hours h'om the southeast. After the mininmm of the 
barometer, the wind blew with great violence from nearly the opposite point; 
commonly the northwest. Here was clearly indicated a prevalent tendency 
of the wind towards a central line: but, unfortunately, the observations em- 
braced only one-half the area of the storm. Tlie oscillatioir of the barom- 
eter showed a steady increase from latitude 25° to Quebec. The centre 
of the storm, therefore, could not have been south of Quebec, and north 
of this place we could obtain no observations. 

I. was now desirous of investigating a storm of marked characteristics 
which could be entwely surrounded, so that more of its features would 
need to be supplied by conjecture. Two storms which occurred in Febru- 
ary, 1842, appeared tolerably well suited to my purpose, and were selected 
for a new investigation. Great pains were taken to collect materials from 
every part of the United States. I succeeded in obtaining barometric ob- 
servations from 64 different stations. I also procured registers^ without 
barometric observations, from 41 military posts, and 22 other stations, ma- 
king 127 in all, not including registers from several stations too remote to 
be of any service in the proposed investigation. 

I commenced the analysis of the storm of February 1-5, by following 
the same course I iiad pursued with the storm of 1836, via: rep'esenting 
the barometric observations by curves which should exhibit the fall and 
rise of the mercury, with the time of minimum height; and from the time 
of minima I proposed to deduce the progress of the storm. But I was 
disappointed in my expectadons. 1 did not obtain such a uniform rate of 
progress as I had anticipated. After some time I perceived that ray observa- 
tions embraced two centres of disturbance; that I had got at least two 
storms in close juxtaposition, and interfering with each other. I then dis- 
covered that my lines of barometric minimum represented relations which 
were extremely complex, and were not well adapted to my purpose, which 
was the development of physical causes. I therefore sought for some mode 
of graphically representing the observations which should be foimded upon 
simple relations, and be better adapted to suggest the causes of the phenom- 
ena. I at last settled upon a method wliich appears to me well suited to this 
purpose, and substituted for lines of 'minimum, pressure, lines o{ equal pres- 
sure. Having determined, as well as 1 was able, the mean height of the 
barometer at each station, I compared each observation with the mean. I 
then drew a line upon a map of the United States, passing through all 



201 • [ 23 ] 

those places where the harometer stood at its mean height. This Une 
may be called the Une of mean pressure. I then drew a line through all 
the places where the barometer stood 2 inches above the mean, and another 
for 4 inches above the mean. So, also, I drew a line through all the places 
where the barometer stood 2 inches below the mean ; another for 4 inches be- 
low; and others for G inches, S inches, and 1 00 inches behnv the moan height. 
These lines must, from the nature of the case, be continuous curves; and 
the centre of these curves must be a point of maxinuun or minimum 
pressure. Near the middle of a great storm we find a point of minimum 
pressure — that is, the centre of a vortex; and the lines of equal pressure 
will indicate at a glance whatever connexion there may be between the 
weight of the air and the direction of the wind. 

Upon a similar principle, all the observations of the thermometer were 
graphically represented upon the same chart. A line joining all those 
places where the thermometer stands at its mean height for the given hour 
and month is marked zero, and may be called the line of mean tempera- 
ture. Another line joins all those places where the thermometer is 10° 
above the mean, and others for 20° and 30° above the mean. So, also, 
lines are drawn for 10° and 20° below the mean temperature. There are 
also continuous lines surrounding a point of maximum or minimum ther- 
mometric disturbance; not points of maximum or mininumi temperature 
absolutely, for we only regard the deviation from the mean temperature of 
the place for the given hour and month. These barometric and ther- 
mometric curves exhibit some conformity to each other, but are far from 
being identical. The direction of the wind is represented by an-ows, and 
its force is indicated, so far as convenient, by their length.* 

Other phenomena are now indicated by colors. Those regions where 
the sky was unclouded, or where the cloudiness was less than one- half, 
are colored blue; those where the sky was entirely overcast, or the cloudi- 
ness exceeded one-half, but without rain or snow, are colored brown. 
Those regions upon which snow is falling, are colored green; and those 
where rain is falling, are colored yellow. Thus, nearly every important 
circumstance of a storm is presented to the eye at a single glance. All 
these particulars will be understood from the two accompanying charts, 
illustrating the progress of the storm of February 16, 1842. 

In both the storms of February, 1842, after they had acquired consider- 
able violence, there was a prevalent motion of the winds iiiward, with a 
tendency to circulate around the centre, in a direction contrary to the sun's 
motion. The motion of the wind, therefore, was neither wholly centrip- 
etal nor wholly rotary, but a combination of the two. As long as the 
wind was moderate, neither of these tendencies M^as clearly marked, and 
there were numerous perplexing anomalies, probably occasioned in many 
instances by the inequalities of the earth's surface. The storm of Febru- 
ary 16 travelled in one day 560 miles in a direction N. 53° E., making its 
velocity 23 miles per hour. The storm of February 1-5 remained for 
two days nearly stationary, and then travelled N. 62° E. at the rate of 36 
miles per hour. On the whole, then, we may conclude that when storms 
are violent, and there is a great depression of the barometer, the direction 
of the wind presents considerable regularity, being spirally inward towards 



*Por an account of the method employed by Mr. Espy in representing the phases of storma, 
see his communication, appendix JNo. 3. 



[ 23 ] 202 

the centre of the storm; but when the winds are moderate, which is the case 
of most frequent occurrence, this tendency is very fully developed, and 
the subject demands more particular investigation. 

III. I now proceed to inquire what encouragement there is to a further 
prosecution of meteorological researches. 

In all our investigations respecting natural plienomena we assume that 
the operations of nature are subject to laws, and that these laws are uni- 
form in their operation. A law of nature knows no exceptions. There 
is no place for science except upon this basis. Are storms subject to laws, 
and are these laws invariable? Such a question may appear almost like 
trifling, and yet many argue as if they had but feeble faith in these princi- 
ples. It is presumed that no philosopher will seriously question them; but 
it may be said that these laws are so complex that they can never be dis- 
covered. What right have we to make such an assumption? Have not 
the laws of nature been actually discovered in many cases in which they 
appear equally complex? How long is it since comets were believed 
to rush through the planetary system in defiance of all law; or if subject 
to law, then a law of such complexity that all attempt to discover it seemed 
hopeless? Now, these laws appear so simple that we wonder they were 
not sooner discovered. All the laws of nature appear complex while they 
remain unknown; but when once discovered, we are surprised at their sim- 
plicity. Why should storms form an exception to this rule? Does the 
past history of meteorological investigations justify such a conclusion? 
Have our researches been rewarded with no success? Far otherwise. 
During the brief period that meteorology has been cultivated we have ar- 
rived at many important generalizations, which, if notentided to the name 
of laws of nature, atford the strongest assurance that such laws exist, and 
that we are on the eve of their discovery. We have discovered that the great 
storms of the United States travel nearly from west to east. No instance 
has yet been found in which a violent storm in these latitudes has travelled 
from east to west, although some great rain storms have remained nearly 
stationary for a day or two. Violent storms usually travel at the rate of 
about 25 miles per hour, although this velocity has been observed to rise 
as high as 40 miles. These storms are of various dimensions. While 
summer showers may cover an area of but a few miles, winter storms some- 
times have a diameter of 1,000 miles and upwards. The duration of a 
storm at any place depends upon its extent, and upon the velocity of its 
progress. If the diameter of a storm is 500 miles, and its progress 25 
miles per hour, its duration at a place situated in the centre of the track 
will be 20 hours, and less for places out of the centre. Hence we may 
form some estimate of the superficial extent of a storm from its duration at 
any place. The direction of the wind is generally inward towards the 
area of rain, and in violent storms there is a tendency to rotation about a 
vertical axis. Over a rugged country there are so many obstacles to the 
wind's progress, that observations at the surface of the earth present a great 
many anomalies; but at sea there are no such obstacles, and the observa- 
tions of the wind exiiibit a greater uniformity and simplicity. The ba- 
rometer falls under the first half of the storm, and rises as the storm re- 
cedes; the centre of the storm coinciding nearly with the greatest depres- 
sion of the barometer. The passage of this centre is marked by a sudden 
change of wind to a point of the compass nearly opposite to that from 
which it had previously been blowing. 



203 [ 23 ] 

The preceding propositions are deductions from a large number of par- 
ticular cases which have been investigated. If any oile of these proposi- 
tions requires some modification, the fact will be disclosed by a contin- 
uance of the same system of observations. This is a legitimate subject of 
investigation. Further observations will either prove or disprove thesd 
propositions. Some of them may require a little modification, although it 
is believed they are all substantially true. 

We are justified, then, in inferring that storms are subject to laws; that 
these laws are uniform in their operation, and that they may be discovered. 
We have already made important progress in this discovery, and we are 
persuaded that we have only to follow up the same methods of investiga- 
tion, and our labor will be rewarded with more brilliant discoveries. The 
results of such knowledge are loo important to be overlooked. When we 
have fully learned the laws of storms, we shall be able to predict them. 
This attainment is of the highest practical importance. If the navigator 
can anticipate the approach of a storm by 24 hours, this interval will be 
quite sufficient to place him beyond the reach of its fury; and although 
the landsman could not remove his habitation from the approaching torna- 
do, he might withdraw his family and the most valuable of his effects to 
a place of security. 

When the magnetic telegraph is extended from New York to New Or- 
leans and St. Louis, it may be made subservient to the protection of our 
commerce, even in the present imperfect state of our knowledge of storms. 
The severe winter storms which desolate the Atlantic coast come from the 
valley of the Mississippi, and require about 24 hours to travel from St. 
Louis to New York. Tlie approach of a dangerous storm might therefore 
be telegraphed at New York hours before its arrival, while tlie sky was 
yet unclouded and the wind propitious, in season to save a fleet of ships 
from putting to sea, to be engulphed in the bottomless deep. The science 
of meteorology is already sufficiently advanced to render important service 
to commerce, if practical navigators would but heed the indications of the 
barometer, and make themselves familiar with the principles which obser- 
vation has established. 

It is, then, not without reason that we expect to be able to predict an ap- 
proaching storm, long enough in advance to render such knowledge of the 
highest importance; but it may admit of more serious question, whether 
we shall ever be able to predict the general character of a season with suffi- 
cient precision to be of any value to the farmer. But why should wc des- 
pair of ultimately attaining even this result ? If one season is remarkable for 
its cold, and another for its heat, is there no reason for it ? Is there not some 
cause acting upon a grand scale to bring about this result? Is there no 
cause which brings an excess of winds from the north, or an excess from 
the south — which brings an unusual amount of precipitation, or an extra- 
ordinary degree of cloudiness? And cannot this cause be discovered? 
This discovery may require the exercise of patience — it may require a 
long continued series of observations; but to assume that a principle can- 
not be discovered, is unphilosophical. This is a legitimate subject of ni- 
vestigation, and it is a field in which the laborer cannot fail of reaping his 
reward. We only need adequate observations— observations sufficiently 
precise, and upon a scale of proper extent. We conclude, then, that there 
is the highest encouragement to the prosecution of meteorological inqui- 
ries — that by continuing our researches we may hope to arrive at general 



[23] 



204 



laws, and that a knowledge of these laws cannot fail to contribute to the 
weahh and happiness of mankind. 

I proceed, therefore, to inquire — 

IV. Upon what plan the observations should be conducted to secure the 
object proposed. 

Violent winter storms appear most suitable for investigation, because 
they are of longer duration, and their features are more strongly marked. 
The oscillation of the barometer affords the surest criterion for identifying 
a storm in its progress from day to day; and these oscillations are greatest 
in winter. 

1. How large an area shonld be covered by our observations, to enable 
us to investigate advantageously the phenomena of our winter storms ? 

Our observations ought plainly to embrace the entire region of the 
storm, and even extend somewhat beyond its margin, for in no other way 
could we be sure that we had found its limits. Now, the great storms 
which are experienced between the parallels of 40 and 45 degrees are fre- 
quently felt as far south as latitude 30'^, and sometimes to 25°. South of 
this line, the oscillations of the barometer, except in a few rare instances, 
are quite small; and it is probable that the limiting parallel of the trade 
winds forms a dividing line between the ordinary storms of the torrid and 
temperate zones. We should therefore extend our system of observations 
to the southern margin of the United States. The northern limit of our 
ordinary winter storms remains unknown. In the storm of December 21, 
1836, the oscillation of the barometer increased uninterruptedly with the 
latitude as far as the most northerly station, (Quebec. Only the southern 
half of the storm was included within the United States. This storm was 
probably experienced as far northward as to the northern shore of Hudson's 
bay. VVe should therefore extend our system of observations to the north- 
ern margin of the United States; and to render our system complete, re- 
quires the co-operation of the British government to extend the observa- 
tions to the entire region of Hudson's bay. 

If we merely wished to embrace in our observations the area of a storm 
for a single hour, then the interval between the Mississippi and the Atlan- 
tic would ordinarily be sufficient. But we could not thus expect to dis- 
cover the origin of a storm. We must trace it in its progress from its com- 
mencement to its greatest violence, and thence to its decline. By observing 
under what circuntstmices it takes its rise, we may hope to be able to dis- 
cover the cause of its activity. AVe should therefore aim to trace every 
storm from its origin to its close. At the ordinary rate of progress a great 
storm would travel from the Rocky mountains to the Atlantic in two days. 
"What influence this range of mountains may have upon our storms is un- 
known, except from conjecture. VVe cannot suppose that a storm could 
travel from tiie Pacific to the Atlantic without experiencing some modifi- 
cation in passing over a range of mountains rising into the region of per- 
petual snow. What this modification is, can be determined by corres- 
ponding observations on both sides of the mountain. I therefore conclude 
that it is important to embrace in our system of observations the entire 
continent from the Pacific to the Atlantic, and from the gulf of Mexico to 
the northern shore of Hudson's bay. 

2. At what distance from each other should stations of observation be 
selected ? 

If we were investigating the phenomena of a summer shower, it would 



205 [ 23 ] 

be indispensable to have stations at very short distances from each other; 
but in winter storms this is less important. I consider it, however, desira- 
ble to have stations at intervals of fifty miles from each dtlier, and such 
might probably be obtained in the more thickly settled parts of the United 
States. In other parts of the country this would be impracticable; but I 
would strive to obtain at least one station for every hundred miles square. 
At this rate we should need about three hundred observers for the United 
States. It is not doubted that this number might be obtained; indeed, we 
have well nigh this number already, but, unfortunately, they are very une- 
qually scattered over the country. 

3. What materials have we to depend upon, and what is wanting to 
complete the plan of one observer to every hundred miles square? 

We have the government observations at the military posts, now 57 in 
number. We have observations from 41 academies in the State of New 
York, and 25 stations in Pennsylvania. Then we have borometric obser- 
vations from about 40 other individuals scattered promiscuously over the 
country; and thermometric observations from about 20 others. There is, 
besides, a large number of those who have meteorological instruments, 
which they occasionally consult, but do not feel sufficient interest in the 
subject to keep a systematic journal. If a grand meteorological effort were 
made, with a prospect of yielding important results, probably most of 
those persons might be pressed temporarily into the service. New Eng- 
land is pretty well maimed with observers, except in the northern part, 
where three or four more are greatly needed. Probably, if instruments could 
be furnished without expense, volunteers might be found to make the obser- 
vations. New York and Pennsylvania are fully organized; but throughout 
the remainder of the United States the stations are (ew and scattered. 
Excluding Oregon and the Indian territory, the remaining States embrace 
about a million and a half square miles, and at our lowest estimate would 
require about 150 observers. AVe have 50 observers already in the field, 
leaving 100 to be provided for. How is this deficiency to be supplied? 
If oiu' government would direct meteorological observations to be made at 
the principal light-houses along our coast and the chain of the great lakes, 
it would leave only the interior of the country to be provided for; and if 
instruments could be furnished without expense, volunteers might proba- 
bly be found to take the observations at most of the remaining stations. 

To extend this system of observations further westward must be attend- 
ed with serious difficulties. We already have registers kept at most of the 
military posts in the Indian country; and as new posts are established, it 
is presumed that the government will direct them to be improved for obser- 
vations. We may thus hope ere long to obtain a line of stations reaching 
to the mouth of the Columbia river; and as settlements extend, observa- 
tions will multiply on the other side of the Rocky mountains. On the 
whole, then, it is believed we might occupy the whole United States from 
its northern to its southern border, and from the Atlantic to the Indian 
territory, beyond the Mississippi, with an army of meteorologists sulficie.ntly 
numerous to enable us to investigate advantageously the phenomena of our 
great storms, provided instruments could be furnished gratuitously for about 
100 stations; and, moreover, we might probably have a line of observers 
at unequal intervals, reaching even to the Pacific ocean. The exjiense of 
100 sets of meteorological instruments may be estimated at ;;^3,000. 

It is believed that the Smithsonian Institution might undertake lo furnish 



[ 23 ] 206 

• 

these instruments and organize a grand system of meteorological observa- 
tions upon this continent, in perfect harmonj' with the views of James 
Smithson. Mv. Smithson bequeathed his property, in trust; to this coun- 
try, /or the increase and cHlfusion of knoroledge among men. It is believed 
that by carrying out the plan now suggested, knowledge would be in- 
creased and diffused, and it would be that kind of knowledge which 
would contribute to the comfiirt and happiness of society, as much as 
perhaps any other which can be named. 

4. Specific plan of operations proposed. 

The following is proposed for the consideration of the Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution; as the outline of a grand meteorological cam- 
paign. 

Let a meteorological department of the institution be organized, under 
the direction of the Secretary, with a suitable assistant. Let a united effort 
be made to secure for a limited period, and to the greatest possible extent, 
the CO operation of the general government, the several State governments, 
scientific societies, and the friends of science throughout the country. Let 
the general government be requested to give the greatest possible exten- 
sion to their system of observations at the military posts, and to authorize 
similar observations to be made at certain lighthouses, so far as may be 
necessary to complete a line of stations at intervals of 100 miles along the 
whole extent of our coast, and the chain of the northern lakes. Let the 
regents of the University of the State of New York be requested to reor- 
ganize the system of observations in that State, by furnishing barometers 
to about 20 of their academies, and directing the observations to be report- 
ed regularly to Washington. Let tlie committee having charge of the 
observations in Permsylvania be requested to adopt the same plan of ob- 
servations which shall be agreed upon for the other States, and report regu- 
larly to Washington, Let application be made to the legislatures of each 
of the other States, inviting them to co-operate in this noble ^heme, 
by emulating the examples of New York and Pennsylvania. Let the 
scientific societies throughout the United States be appealed to, to assist in 
organizing an efficient corps of observers, each in its appropriate sphere; 
and let individual observers throughout the country be requested to unite 
their eftbrts in one uniform and systematic plan of operations. Let them 
be requested to report their equipment of instruments, and state whether 
they will undertake to provide whatever may be wanting, at their own ex- 
pense. LiCt then the entire country be divided into sections not exceed- 
ing 100 miles square; and in each section not already provided for, let an 
observer be sought out, who shall volunteer to make the observations if 
instruments are furnished him. Let then the Smithsonian Institution 
assume the burden of furnishing the necessary instruments to those who 
are unable to do it themselves. It is estimated that the sum required for 
this purpose would not exceed three thousand dollars. Let a form of ob- 
servations be provided, and instructions to all the observers, who shall re- 
port at least quarterly to the Secretary at Washington. Let it be the dut^ 
of the meteorologist to take charge of the observations, to discuss and ana- 
lyze them, and endeavor to deduce from them the laws of storms. Let 
these investigations be published, in as much detail as may be thought de- 
manded by the claims of science, and let a copy of whatever may be pub- 
lished be forwarded to each observer, in order that he may be stimulated 
in his work by finding that his labor is not wholly in vain. 



207 [ 23 ] 

Finally, to give to this system its greatest efficicnry, the co operation of 
the British government and of the Hudson's Bay Company is absohucly 
indispensable. The greater part of our severe storms extend far beyond 
the limits of the United States on the north. Observations confined to the 
United States will therefore seldom give us the entire area of a storm, and 
frequently only half of it. The remaining half must then be supplied by 
conjecture. This would leave all our investigations in an unfinished and 
unsatisfactory state. We want a line of stations through Canada, along 
the shores of Hudson's bay, to the farthest outpost of civilization. At 
eveiy government station a meteorological journal might doubtless be kept; 
and it is confidently believed that if the Smithsonian Institution would 
embark in earnest in a grand meteorological crusade, the British govern- 
ment would cheerfully contribute its efficient co operation. 

A system of observations like that here contemplated, if faithfully pros- 
ecuted for one year, would well nigh exhaust the subject. The storms of 
each year are probably but a repetition of those of the preceding. Never- 
theless, it would be unsafe to calculate upon concluding the war after a 
single year's campaign. Experience in similar cases has shown that it 
requires considerable time to organize so large a plan of operations, and 
the system would not., probably, attain its greatest efficiency the first year. 
It would be unwise, therefore, to calculate upon a less period of operations 
than three years. But it is believed that in this period, results would 
be developed which would more than repay all the expense of time and 
money incurred; while, upon the existing scale of operations, the progress 
of discovery must be slow and uncertain. In order to enable us to inves- 
tigate advantageously the phenomena of a single storm, we must have 
simultaneous observations from a vast number of stations. Observations 
from a few stations, though continued to the end of time, will not accom- 
plish the same object. How, then, can the Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution more faithfully carry out the views of its benevolent founder, 
than by vigorously prosecuting these researches to their completion? How 
can they contribute more directly and powerfully to the prosperity of our 
commerce; and, through commerce, add to the wealth and happiness of 
the whole country? 

I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

ELIAS LOOMIS. 

Joseph Henry, LL. D., 

Secretai'ij Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX No. 3. 



Extract from a communication from Professor Espy on the subject of 

Meteorology. 

My dear sir: I am much pleased to learn from your letter that the Re- 
gents of the Smithsonian Institution would probably make an appropria- 
tion for the purpose of establishing a series of observations " to solve, if 
possible, the problem of American storms." I am of opinion that no sub- 
ject of science is more worthy of the attention of the institution; and in 
answer to your request that I should furnish you with suggestions on the 
subject, I refer you, in the first place, to my work entitled '' 1 liilosophy 
of Storms/' from page 77 to page 172; for a full development of the plaa 



[23] 



208 



adopted twelve years ago of investigating the phases of storms, by the joint 
committee of the American Philosophical Society and the Franklin Insti- 
tute, of the State of Pennsylvania. 

The plan then suggested, and in part carried out, was adopted in the 
investigation of the phases of storms during tlie five years in which I was 
in the service of the government. In my "circular to the friends of 
science," in which I invited all persons in the United States keeping 
journals of the weather to send them to the office of the Surgeon General, 
Washington, 1 announced my intention to lay down on skeleton maps of 
the United States, by appropriate symbols, all the most important phases 
of great storms which might come within the range of our simultaneous 
observations ; and thus it was hoped we should be able to determine the 
sJiape and size of all storms; whether they are i^ound or oblong; and if ob- 
long, whether they move sideforeinost or eiidforemost , or ohliquehj; and to 
ascertain their velocity and direction in all the different seasons of the 
year; the course of the wind in and beyond the bordere of the storm; the 
Jluctuacioii of the barometer and change of temperature which generally 
accompany storms, and the extent to which their influence is felt beyond 
their borders. 

Having obtained observations from a wide extended correspondence, I 
laid down the phases of the storms on maps, as presented in my first re- 
port, and I have continued the same plan in my second report, now ready 
to be printed. In the investigation of the materials of the second report, 
comprising tlie observations of three years and three-quarters, I have dis- 
covered no facts contradictory to the generalizations deduced from the 
winter storms of three months embraced in the second report. I consider 
it of the highest interest, by an extended series of observations, which I 
hope the Smithsonian Institution will cause to be made over a much wider 
territory than my observation embraced, to verify, or, if necessary, modify 
these generalizations, and also to investigate the laws of summer storms, 
which 1 fear cannot be done without much more numerous observers than 
I was able to procure.* 

''[*■ ^ ^ ^ ^F W vr ^ 

The elements of the theory I have given you are the same as those pre- 
sented in my work on storms; and though I have demonstrated thetn ap- 
proximately, and have no doubt of their general accuracy, yet I am con- 
vinced that nothing will establish the truth on this subject in such a man- 
ner as to carry conviction to every mind but a series of wide extended 
simultaneous observations, continued for a long time, by numerous observ- 
ers. Such a series I hope is now about to be made. 

It would be inappropriate to extend this communication to a greater 
length; but I will explain to you at another time some experiments con- 
nected with meteorology, which I wish to see performed, on the electricity 
of steam, and on the specific caloric of atmospheric air and other gases, 
with the aid of my nephelescope, and on the law of cooling of air in great 
expansions of air by diminished pressure. 

I remain, very respectfully, yours, &c., 

JAMES P. ESPY. 

Prof. J. Henry, 

Secretary SndtJisonian Institution. 

*Tlie generalizations and theory of Mr. Espy are given in the preceding report oi" Professor 
Loomis, page 197. 



30th Congress, [HO. OF REPS.] Miscellaneous. 

2d ^t^ssion. jyo^ 43 



THIRD ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



TO 



THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 



DtTRIIVG THE YELVR 184S. 



February 19, 1849. 

Laid upon the table, and ordered to be printed. 



WASHINGTON : 

TIPPIN & &TREEPER, PRINTERS. 

1849. 



Mis. No. 4S. 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

1. List of Officers and Members ----- 3 

2. Third Annual Report of Regents - - - - 4 

3. Journal of the Third Annual Meeting of the Regents - 6 

4. Second Annual Report of the Secretary - - - 10 

5. Report of the Assistant Secretary, relative to the Library - 34 

6. Report of the Executive Committee - - - - 47 

7. Report of the Building Committee - - - ' . 50 

8. Appendix ,.-----55 



Mis. No. 48. 

OFFICERS AND ME3IBERS OP THE SMITHSO.VIAIV INSTITUTION: 

The President of the United States, 

^ Ex-offido Presiding Officer of the Institution, 

TiTE Vice President of the United States, 

Ex-qfjUcio Second Presiding OJlcer. 
George M. Dallas, 

Chancellor of the Institution, 
Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Institution. 
Charles C. Jewett, 

Assistant Secretory, acting as Librarian. 
William W. Seaton, 

Alexander D, Bac -^r.,)^ ExeczUioe Committee. 
James A. Pearce, 



IS I ^ ill 



REGENTS : 

Cveorge M. Dallas, Hce President of the United States. 
Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States. 
William W. Seaton, Mayor of the city of Washingtoji. 
James k. Pearce, Member of the Senate of the United States. 
James M. Mason,* Member of the Seriate of the United States. 
Jeffehson Davis, Member of the Senate of the United States. 
Henry W. Hilliard, Member of the House of Representatives. 
CJeorge P. Marsh, Member of the House of Representatives. 
Robert McClelland, Member of the House of Representatives. 
RuFus C HO ATE, Citizen of Massachusctts . 
Gideon Hawley, Citizen of New York. 
Wm. C. 'Preston, Citizen of South Carolina. 
Richard Rush, Citizen of Pennsylvania. 

Alexander D. Bache, Member of National Institute , Washington. 
Joseph G. Totten, Member of National Institute, WasJtington. 

MEMBERS EA'-OFFICIQ OF THE INSTITUTION : 

Jame« K. Polk, Presidtnt of the United States. 

George M. Dallas, Vice President of the United States. 

James Buchanan, Secretary of State oftlie United States. 

Robert J. VValker, Secretary of the Treasury of the United States. 

William L. Marcy, Secretary of War of the United States. 

John Y. Mason, Secretary of the Navy of the United States. 

Cave Johnson, Postmaster General of the United States. 

Isaac Toucey, Attorney General of the United. States. 

Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States. 

Edmund Burke^, Commissioner of Patents of the United States. 

William W. Seaton, Mayor of the city of Washington. 

HONORARY MEMBERS OF THE INSTITUTION, 

[No honorary members have yet been elected.] 



« Appointed in plac« of Mr. BreeBe, resigned. 



4 Mis. No. 48. 



THIRD ANNUAL REPORT 



OF 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



T/iei operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up to Janu- 
ary \st, 1S49. 

To the Senate and House of Representatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution for the increase and diffusion of linowledge among men, the under- 
signed, in behalf of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and con- 
dition of the Institution, the following documents, viz: 

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents at their last session. 

2. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations 
of the Institution during the past year, accompanied by a report from the 
Assistant Secretary, relative to the library. 

3. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting an account of the 
expenditures of the Institution, and of its financial condition on the 1st of 
January, 1849. 

4. Report of the Building Committee relative to the progress made in 
tlie erection of the Smithsonian edifice, and in the improvement of the 
grounds, with a statement of the expenditures which have thus far been 
made on the same. 

From these documents it will be seen that the Smithsonian Institution 
nas already cmnnenced its operations for the increase and diffusion of 
Knowledge among men; that the plan of organization wliich has been 
adopted, and the works whicli have been completed and begun, have met 
with the approbation of men of eminence in literature and science both in 
this country and in Europe; that the Institution has received a valuable 
donation of chemical and philosophical apparatus from our distinguished 
countryman. Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelpliia, and tliat its financial affairs 
are in a very favorable condition. 

From the report of the- Building Committee it wilt be seen that tha 
Smithsonian edifice is as flir advanced as tlie financial arrangements wliich 
have been adopted would permit; that tlie two wings and connecting 
ranges will be ready for occupation early in the present year, and that the 
whole will be completed in tln-ee years from next March. 

The report of the Executive Committee shows, that after all the ex- 
penditures for the erection of the building and the improvement of the 



Mis. No. 48. 5 

grounds, for the purchase of books and apparatus, for publications and 
researches, and for all other purposes, the value of the funds at the present 
time exceeds by a small amount that of the original appropriation of the 
act of Congress of September, 1S46, establishing the Institution. 
Respectfully submitted. 

G. M. DALLAS, 
Chancelloj- of the Smithsonian Institution. 
JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Listitution. 



6 Mis. No. 48. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS 

OF THE 

REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



AT THEIR 



THIRD ANNUAL MEETING, 



WEDNESDAY, December 13, 1S48. 

This being the day fixed by their resolutions of September 9, 1846, 
and of December 21, 1847, for their regular annual meeting, the Board of 
Regents of the Smitiisoiiian Institution convened in the room of the Vice 
President of the United States, in the Capitol, at 12 o'clock, m. 

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Breese, Davis, Hilliard, Marsh, 
McClelland, Pearce, Seaton, and Totten. 

A quorum being present, and the Chancellor being obliged to leave in 
consequence of his duties in the Senate, Mr. Totten was called to the chair. 

The Secretary stated to the meeting that Messrs. Choate and Hawley 
had been reappointed as regents to fill the vacancies occasioned by the 
expiration o( their first term of service. 

The Secretary also stated that he had sent telegraphic messages to 
Messrs. Choate and Hawley announcing their reappointment, arid inform- 
ing them that the board would probably transact no business for some 
days in order to give them an opportunity to be present. 
Whereupon, on motion. 

The board adjourned to meet on Monday, the ISth instant, at 11 o'clock, 
a. m. 

MONDAY, December 18, 1848. 

The board met agreeably to adjournment. 

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Davis, Marsh, McClelland, 
Pearce, Seaton, and Totten. 

Mr. Seaton, from the Executive Committee, presented a report of the 
expenditures and state of the funds of the institution. 

Mr. Totten, from the Building Committee, presented a report on the 
progress of erection of the Smithsonian edifice and improvements of the 
grounds, with estimates of future expenses, &c. 

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the In- 
stitution, accompanied by a report of the Assistant Secretary relative to 
the library. 

On' motion, it was 

Resolved, That these several reports be recorded on the pages of the 
j onrnal . 

On motion. 

The board adjourned to meet on Wednesday, the 20th instant, at U 
o'clock, a. m. 



Mis. No. 48. t 

WEDNESDAY, DEtEMBER 20, 1S4S. 

The board met agreeably to adjournment. 

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Breese, Davis, Marsh, Pearce, 
Seaton, and Totten. 

On motion of Mr. Marsh, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary and Executive Committee be autborized 
to present to Messrs. Squier and Davis two hundred copies of their memoir 
contained in the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl- 
edge. 

Mr. Marsh presented a letter from John R. Bartlelt, of New York, ac- 
companying a plan for the preparation of a new and improved dictionary 
of the English language, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

On motion, it was 

I^csolved, That the foremenlioned letter and plan be referred to the Sec- 
retary, the Executive Committee, and Mr. Marsh. 
On motion of Mr. Marsh, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to purchase, for the sum of 
one hundred and fifty dollars, the lithographic stones upon which are 
traced the designs for the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge. 

Mr. Seaton presented letters from several persons making application 
for employment in the institution. 

The Secretary called the attention of the board to the statement made in 
his report relating to the valuable donation of apparatus, made to the insti- 
tuion by Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia. 

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Seaton, it was unanimously 

Resolved, That a committee be appointed, to consist of the Chancellor, 
Secretary, and Mr. Pearce, to communicate in suitable terms to Dr. Hare, 
the thanks of the Board of Regents for the munificent present of his ex- 
tensive and very valuable apparatus to the Smithsonian Institution. 

The Secretary stated to the board the progress made in the distribution 
of the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge among 
colleges, learned societies, and large libraries ; no copies having as yet been 
given to individuals. 

The Secretary presented a list of donations to the Institution. 

The Secretary also presented letters from several distinguished individ- 
uals highly approving the plan of the proposed Bibliograpliia Americana, 
mentioned in his report. (See appendix A.) ^ 

On motion, the board adjourned to meet on Wednesday, the2/th instant, 

at 11 o'clock, a. m. 

WEDNESDAY, December 27, 184S. 

The board met agreeably to adjournment. 

Present, Messrs. Bache, Davis, McClelland, Seaton, and lotten. 

The Chancellor being absent, Mr. Davis was called to the clnir. 

The Secretary presented a letter* from J. Disturnell, of New \ ork city, 
accompanying a copy of a memorial to Congress relative to tlie preparation 
of a new Gazetteer of North America, which letter and memorial were re- 
ferred to the Secretary and Executive Committee. 



8 Mis. No. 48. 

The Secretary also presented a letter from Francis Markoe, esq. of Wash- 
ington, offering for sale to the Institution the collection of objects of natural 
history belonging to the estate of the late British minister to the United 
States, H. S. Fox, esq.,; which was referred to the Secretary and Exec- 
utive Committee, it being understood that the financial arrangements of 
the board do not for the present allow the purchase of collections in natu- 
ral history. 

The Secretary also presented a letter from Archibald Campbell, esq., 
Deputy Secretary of the State of New York, accompanying a donation to 
the Institution, made in accordance with an act of the legislature of that 
State, of the 14 published volumes in 4to of the Natural History of New 
York. 

On motion, the Chancellor and Secretary were requested to present the 
thanks of the Board of Regents for this valuable donation. 

The Secretary also presented letters from several presidents of colleges ; 
also reports from several learned societies, highly commending the pro- 
gramme of organization of the Institution. 
Whereupon, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to insert in the records of the 
Institution the names of all such individuals a^d societies. 
On motion, it was 

Resolved, That the Chancellor, Secretary, and Chairman of the Exec- 
utive Committee be requested to prepare the annual rejx)rt of the Regents to 
Congress, givmg an account of the operations, expenditures and condi- 
tion of the Institution. 

On motion of Mr. McClelland, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to return the thanks of the 
Board of Regents to the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, to 
the Secretary of the Navy, and to the Secretary of War for their assistance 
in promoting the objects of the Institution. Also, to the Hon. Mr. Irwin 
and Mr. Trist for their donations; and to Mr. Downs, of Philadelphia, for his 
computations of occultations. 

At the request of Mr Seaton, the Executive Committee were allowed 
to withdraw their report, in order to enable them to include therein the dis- 
bursements and condition of the finances of the Institution up to the end of 
the year 1848. 

At the request of Mr. Totten, permission was given to the Building Com- 
mittee to withdraw their report for the purpose of making the same more 
complete. 

On motion, it was ' 

Resolved, That the board adjourn, to meet on Wednesday next, at 11 
o'clock, a. m. 

WEDNESDAY, January 3, 1849. 

The board met agreeably to adjournment. 

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Marsh, McClelland, Seaton and 
Totten ; also, by invitation. Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia. 

Mr. Seaton presented the revised report of the Executive Committee, 
which had been withdrawn for the purpose of extending the accounts up 
to the 1st January, 1849 ; which was accepted. 

The Secretary read a letter from Dr. Hare, relative to the presentation 
of his apparatus to the Institution; which was ordered to be placed upon 
the journal. (See appendix B.) 



Mis. Noo 48. 9 

Mr. Baclie presented letters from J. Guillemard, esq., of Woodford, 
England, and from Professor Faraday, of London, concerning James 
Smithson; which were ordered to be preserved in the archives of the In- 
stitution. 

Mr. Seaton, from the Building Committee, read a letter from Mr. Owen, 
late a Regent and Chairman of the Building Committee, relative to the 
publication of the work entitled "■ Hints on Public Architecture." 
Whereupon, on motion, it was 

Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized, provided the 
same be required by the pubhshers, to transfer out of the appropriation 
originally made for experiments on building materials, a sum not exceed- 
ing two hundred dollars, to the appropriations heretofore made, for the pub- 
lication of a volume on public architecture. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, the following appropriations, recommended 
by the Executive Committee for the service of the ensuing year, were 
taken up, considered, and adopted, viz: 

For publication of " Contributions to Knowledge" - -$3,000 00 

Scientific researches and computations - - TOO 00 

Meteorological instruments and researches - - 1,000 00 

Public lectures, &c. ..-•.. 500 00 

Publication of scientific reports - - - 500 00 
Preparation of the general catalogue of American 

hbmries 1,000 00 

Pufchase-of bibliographical works and books of general 

reference 2,000 00 

Binding, blank books, stamps, certificates, &c. - 250 00 

Purchase of books needed by authors of reports, (kc • 400 00 
General expenses, including salaries of officers, expenses 

of the meetings of the board and of committees, 

clerk hire, postage, &c. .... .8,000 00 

17,350 00 

On motion, it was 

Resolved, That the Chancellor and the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution be authorized to exchange the treasury notes belonging to the 
Institution for United States stock; that the certificates for the said stock be 
taken in the name of the Chancellor and Secretary, and that the stock and 
its proceeds be at the disposal of the same, under the regulations heretofore 
existing as to the treasury notes for the purposes of the Institution, in accord- 
ance with the several appropriations of the board. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to appoint some suitable 
person, at a salary not to exceed four hundred dollars per annum, to act as 
book-keeper and accountant of the Institution and to })erf(irm such other 
duties as are specified in the report of the Executive Connnittee. ^. 

The Secretary exhibited a copy of the last edition of Dr Hare's Chem- 
istry, presented to the Institution by the author, containing illustrations of 
his apparatus now the property of the Institution, and mentioned that 
among the articles presented by Dr. Hare, were the blocks from which 
these illustrations were printed. 



10 Mis. No. 48. 

Whereupon j on motion of Mr. Bache, it was 
Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to prepare for the use of the 
Institution, a descriptive catalogue of Dr. Hare's apparatus, illustrated by 
impressions from the original blocks. 

On motion, the board adjourned to meet on Saturday next, at 10 
o'clock, a. m. 

SATURDAY, January 6, 1849. 

The board met agreeably to adjournment. 

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Davis, Hiiliard, McClelland, 
Marsh, Pearce, Seaton, and Totten. 

Mr. Totten presented the revised report of the Building Committee; 
which was accepted. 

Mr. Hiiliard read a letter from Mr. Squier, which was referred to the 
Secretary and Executive Committee. 

On motion of Mr. Bache, it was- 

Resolved, That as the discharge of the duties assigned to the Assistant 
Secretary, acting as Librarian, are now such as to give entire employment 
to his time, he receive from the first instant the full compensation pro- 
vided by the resolution of the board, adopted January 26, 1S47. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That when the board adjourn, it adjourn to meet on Wed- 
nesday, the 7th of March next, at 10 o'clock, a. m., in the Vice President's 
room in the Capitol, for the purpose of electing a Chancellor, in the place 
of Mr. Dallas, whose term of office as Regent expires on fire 4th of March 
next. 

The Assistant Secretary, acting as Librarian, read his report relative to 
the Ijibrary. 

The board then, on motion, adjourned to meet on Wednesday, the 7th 
of March next. 



SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN IN- 
STITUTION, GIVING AN ACCOUNT OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR 1848. 
PRESENTED DECEMBER 13, 1849. 

Gentlemen: By a resolution of the Board of Regents, at their last an- 
nual meeting, I was charged with the execution of the details of the pro- 
gramme, which had been provisionally adopted, and was directed to report 
annually to the board the progress made in the execution of the duty as- 
signed to me. In accordance with this resolution I present the following 
statement of the operations of the past year. 

The programme of the plan of organization of the institution has been 
submitted to a number of literary and scientific societies, and in every 
case has received their unqualified approbation. The principal officers of 
these societies have expressed a willingness to co-operate with the Smith- 
sonian Institution in carrying out the plans which have been adopted, 
and it is confidently believed, that as soon as these are fully developed 
and brought into practical operation, they will meet with general approval. 

It was recommended in my last report that the details of the plan should 
be adopted provisionally, and should be carried into operation gradually 



Mis. No. 48. 11 

and cautiously, with such changes from time to time, as experience might 
dictate. The Institution is not one of a day; but is designed to endure as 
long as our government shall exist, and it is therefore peculiarly important 
that in the beginning we should proceed carefully and not attempt to j)ro- 
duce im.mediate effects at the expense of permanent usefulness. The pro- 
cess of increasing knowledge is an extremely slow one, and the value of 
the results of this part of the plan cannot be properly realized until some 
years have elapsed. Independendy of these considerations, the fmancial 
arrangements adopted by the Board of Regents, are such as to prevent 
the full operation of the Institution until after three years from next 
March; up to that time more than one-half of the income is to be devoted 
to the erection of the building, and indirectly to the increase of the perma- 
nent fund. 

It will be recollected that the programme embraces — 

1st. The plan of publishing original memoirs on all branches of knowl- 
edge, in a series of quarto volumes, 

2d. The institution of original researches under the direction of compe- 
tent persons. 

3d, The publication of a series of reports from year to year, giving an 
account of the progress of the different branches of knowledge. 

4th. The formation of a library and a museum of objects of nature and 
art. 

Publication of original memoirs. 

The first volimie of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has 
been published and partially distributed. It consists of a single memoir 
on the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley, comprising the results 
of extensive original surveys and explorations by E. G. Squier, A.M., 
and E. H. Davis, M. D. It is illustrated by forty eight lithographic plates, 
and by two hundred and seyen wood engravings. The mechanical exe- 
cution of the volume will bear comparison with that of any publication 
ever issued from the American press. / 

In the publication of the first volume of the Contributions, the question 
occurred as to the propriety of securing the copyright to the Institution. I 
had not an opportunity of conferring with the Executive Committee on 
this point, and was therefore obliged to settle it on my own responsibility. 
I concluded that it would be more in accordance with thft spirit of the in- 
stitution to decide against the copyright. The knowledge which the 
Smithsonian Institution mav be instrumental in presenting to the world 
should be free to all who 'are capable of using it. The republication 
of our papers ought to be considered as an evidence of their importance, 
and should be encouraged rather than prohibited. 

The fir^t memoir occupies an entire volume, and this accidental cir- 
cumstance has given rise to a misconception of the plan. It has been sup- 
posed that each volume of the Smithsonicin Contributions is in like man- 
ner tc^consist of a sepa^rate treatise on a particular subject selected with a 
view to popular interest. But such is not the case; each volume will gene- 
rally contain a number of separate memoirs, on different branches ot knowl- 
edge, similar to the usual published transactions of learned societies. Ihe 
only reason why the first volume is occupied with a subject ot general in- 
terest rather than one on some more abstruse branch of science iS; that the 



12 Mis. No. 48. 

memoir it contains was \he firsi which was presented of the character pre- 
scribed by the plan. No preference is to be given to any branch of knowl- 
edge. Tlie only questions to be asked, in considering the acceptance of 
a memoir, are, whether it is a positive addition to knowledge, resting on 
original research, and of sufficient importance to merit a place in the Smith- 
sonian Contributions. 

The rules adopted for the acceptance of a memoir are the same as those 
generally followed by learned societies. The memoir is surrendered by 
the author to the Institution, and no additions or alterations are allowed to 
be made after it has been submitted to the commission appointed to ex- 
amine it, unless by their consent. A certain number of copies is presented 
to the author for distribution, with the privilege of striking off, at his own 
expense, additional copies for sale; which in most cases, particularly when 
the memoir is of popular interest, will be all the renmneration expected 
by the author. 

From what has been said, it will be evident that the papers published in 
the Contributions cannot generally be of a popular nature. The popular 
effects to be produced by the Institution are principally those which may 
be attained by the reports on the progress of the different branches of 
knowledge, and by the occasional publications in connexion with these of 
separate treatises on some subject of special interest. 

Applications have been made for the first volume of the Contributions 
from many academies and priVate institutions, and were our means suf- 
ficient, we would be pleased to supply all demands of this kind. But 
this is obviously impossible, for they alone would exhaust all the income 
of the Institution. 

Preparations have been made for the publication of the second volume 
of the Contributions, and a sufficient number of memoirs have been already 
accepted, or are in preparation, to funiish the materials. Five of these are 
on astronomical subjects, and afford as important additions to this science 
as have ever been made to it in this country. Two of them relate to in- 
vestigadons on the new planet Neptune, which are only second in value 
to the original discovery of this distant member of our system. Abstracts 
of these have been given to the world, and have been received with gene- 
ral approbation. A third is a determination of the zodiac of the asteroids, 
or the zone in the heavens to which the positions of these small planets 
are confined. This paper is of much practical importance in facilitating 
the rei>earches now in progress in different parts of the world relative to 
the nature of these fragments (as they would seem to be) of a large planet 
between Jupiter and Mars. It may be at once determined, by an inspec- 
tion of the table annexed to this paper, whether any star mapped in an old 
catalogue, and now no longer to be found in the same place, can possibly 
be one of the asteroids. A fourth paper is an account of a new comet, the 
discovery of which by an American lady is one of the first additions to 
science of this kind, so far as I am informed, ever made in this country. 
The fifth memoir is an account of the Georgetown Observatory, die in- 
struments with which it is furnished, the mode of.using them which has 
been adopted, and the results of the observations which have been made. 
An important paper is also in process of preparation for the same volume 
on the gigantic fossil cetacean remains which are found in the southern and 
western States of the Union. 

Other papers are iu progi'ess which partake of the character of original 
researches, since tliey are in part at least prepared at the expense and un- 



Mis. No. 48. 13 

der the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. They will be mentioned 
under the next head. 

In a few cases, memoirs have been presented which, thoucrh exhibiting 
research and considerable originahty, are not of a character to Avarran"t 
their adoption as parts of onr volumes of Contributions to positive knowl- 
edge. The rule given in the programme has been rigidly adhered to, 
viz: to decline accepting any paper on physical science which consists 
merely of an unverified hypothesis, however ingenious and plausible such 
an hypothesis may be. A law of nature is not susceptible of- a logical 
demonstration, like that of a proposition of geometry, but is proved by its 
fitness to explain old, and to predict new, phenomena. The verification 
of an hypothesis, as we have stated in the last report, consists in deducin* 
consequences from it, and ascertaining by a direct appeal to observation or 
experiment, the truth or falsity of these deductions. Any paper, theref)re, 
on material science which does not contain original experiments and ob- 
servations cannot be admitted as a part of the Contributions to Knowledge. 
T.'he rule we have adopted is in accordance with the practice of gautious 
investigators. The law of universal gravitation existed for several years 
in the mind of Newton as a well conditioned hypothesis, before it was given 
to the world as a verified and established theory. Besides this, the rules 
of logic which are employed in discussing the questions of ordinary life 
are not applicable to the precision of scientific inquiry. The materials in 
this case, to borrow an expression of an author of celebrity, " must be 
weighed in the scale of the assayer, and not like the mixed commodities 
of the market, on the weightbridge of common opinion and general 
usage." 

It has been objected to our publishing original memoirs, that in so 
doing we are merely performing the duties of a learned society. I'he 
answer is,' that the learned societies in this country have not the 
means, except in a veiy limited degree, of publishing memoirs which 
require expensive illustrations, much less of assisting to defray the cost 
of the investigations by which the results have been obtained. 'J'he 
real workingmen in the line of original research hail this part of the 
plan as a new era in the history of American science. The assistance 
which the Fiistitution will thus render to original research, will occupy 
the place of the governmental patronage of other countries, and will enable 
true* genius, wherever found, to place its productions before the world, 
free of cost, and in a manner most favorable for securing due attention and 
proper appreciation. 

From our experience thus far, I am convinced that circumscribed as is 
the class of memoirs accepted by the Institution, we shall have no want of 
materials to fill at least one quarto volume a year. There has been in our 
country within the last few years a remarkable increase in the attention 
given to original research, not only in material science, but in every 
branch of knowledge susceptible of increase. And this is evinced by 
the character and variety of the papers which have been presented for pub- 
lication. The wide difference between the increase of knowledge and 
its diffusion is beginning to be seen and appreciated, and the time is not 
far distant when we shall be as distinguished for our additions to science 
as for its diffusion and application. The revolutions of Europe are not 
only sending to our shores the choicest specimens of art, but also 
men of reputation and skill in scientific investigation. -Besides this, the 



14 Mis. No. 48. 

present state of France is attended with such an interruption of 
the ordinary means of scientific publication, that the manuscript vohimeg 
on natural history of one of the most distinguished professors of the 
Jardin des Plantes are offered to us for publication in tlie Smithsonian 
Contributions for no remuneration, save a few copies for distribution 
among friends. Were the Institution fully in operation I should not hesi- 
tate, in accordance with tbe liberality which should characterise an estab- 
lishment founded on the bequest of a foreigner, to reconmiend the adop- 
tion of these memoirs for publication at the expense of the institution, and 
perhaps we might now distribute them through several of our volumes and 
finish the publication of them in the course of a few years. 

Oris:^ial researches. 

The second part of the plan consists in instituting original researches, 
the results of which are to be published, with the other memoirs, in the 
volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. Under this head may be first 
mentioned the publication of the tables ordered at the last meeting of the 
board, for facilitating the calculation of the time of appearance of occulta- 
tions of the fixed stars by the moon. The object of these tables is to 
assist in the accurate determination of the longitude of important places on 
the continent of North America, and their importance has been attested by 
the recommendation of some of the most distinguished astronomers of this 
country. The accurate establishment of the longitude of any place renders 
it a landmark to the surveyor, the geographer and the astronomer, and 
furnishes a most important element in determining its relative position on 
the map of the country. The observation of occultations affords one of the 
most ready means of solving this most difficult practical problem. The 
tables were calculated at the expense and under the direction of the Insti- 
tution, and were sent to all persons known to be interested in practical 
astronomy, with a request that the observations which might be made in 
connexion with them might be sent to the Institution for computation, or 
published in some accessible journal. These tables have been so well re- 
ceiy^d by astronomers, tliat with the concurrence of the Executive Commit- 
tee, I have ventured to order the computation of a set of the same kind on 
a more extensive scale for the year 1849. Copies of these will be sent to 
United States ofHcers on the coast of Oregon and California, and will be 
distributed among all the other observers in this country. They will be 
found of much practical imporiance to the corps engaged by the general 
government in establishing the boundary lines of our new possessions. 
It is hoped that the remuneration allowed for the labor of computing these 
tables will not be considered extravagant, when it is mentioned that it has 
occupied the whole time of Mr. Downes for nearly six months, at the rate of 
eight hours a day. 

With the concurrence of the Executive Committee, I have also publish- 
ed an ephemeris of the planet Neptune, or in other words, a table indica- 
ting its position in the heavens during each day of the present year, by 
which those interested in astronomy are enabled readily to find the place 
of the new planet in the heavens, or the direction in which the telescope 
must be pointed in order to observe it. Copies of this have been sent to 
all the principal astronomers in the world, and it has received the highest 
commendation. It was calculated by Mr. S. C. Walker from the orbit 



Mis. No. 48. ]5 

deduced by himself, a full account of which firms one of the papers of the 
second volume of the Contributions. It is the first accurate cnhcmoris 
which has ever appeared of this newly discovered meni'>er of our solar 
system. 

.An appropriation of one tliousand dollars was made at the last meetinf^ 
of the board for the commencement of a scries of meleorological observa^- 
tions, particularly with reference to the phenomena of American storms. 
According to the estimate of Prof. Loornis, appended to my last report' 
three thousand dollars will be required for the purpose of reducing this 
part of our plan to practice. It is hoped that one thousand dollars in 




, . , _ /gy 

the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, and in order that the observa- 
tions thus established may not interfere with those undertaken by the 
Smithsonian Institution, that officer has directed Prof. Espy to co-operate 
with the Secretary of the Institution. 

It is contemplated to establish three classes of observers among those 
who are disposed to join in this enterprise. One class, without'instru- 
mentS; to observe the face of the sky as to its clearness, the extent of 
cloud, the direction and force of wind, the beginning and ending of rain,, 
snow, &c. A second class, furnished with thermometers, who, besides 
making the observations above mentioned, will record variations of tem- 
peralure. The third class, furnished with full sets of instruments, to 
observe all the elements at present deemed important in the science of 
meteorology. It is believed that much valuable information may be ob- 
tained in this way with reference to the extent, duration, and passage of 
storms over the country, though the observer may be possessed of no other 
apparatus than.a simple wind vane. 

With the instruments owned by private individuals, with those at the 
several military stations, and with the supply of the deficiency by the 
funds of the Smithsonian Institution, it is believed that observations 
can be instituted at important points over the whole United Slates, and 
that with the observations which we can procure from Mexico and the 
British possessions of North America, data will be furnished for important 
additions to our knowledge of meteorological phenomena. As a beginning 
to this extended system, six sets of instruments have been forwarded 
to the coast of Oregon and California, for the purpose of establishing pe- 
riodical observations on the western side of the Rocky mountains. Also, 
a set has been forwarded to Bent's Fort, and another to Santa Fe. Circu- 
lars have been prepared and will shortly be issued for the purjwse of as- 
certaining the number and locality of all those wlio, with or without in- 
struments, are willing to join, in the enterprise. lam indebted to Prof. 
Coffin, of Lafayette College, for a list of all persons, as far as they are 
known, who have heretofore been accustomed to make meteorological 
observations in North America, which will be of much imj)ortance in our 
future investigations relative to this subject. 

As a part of the system of meteorology, it is proposed to employ, as far 
as our funds will permit, the magnetic telegraph in the investigation of 
atmospherical phenomena. By this means, not only the notice of the 
approach of a storm may be given to distant observers, but also the atten- 
tion may be directed to particular phenomena, whicii can only be properly 



16 Mis. No. 48. 

studied by the simultaneous observations of persons widely separated from 
each ot^er. For example, the several phases presented by a thunder- 
storm, or by the aurora borealis, may be telegraphed to a distance, and 
the synchronous appearances compared, and recorded in stations far re- 
removed from each other. Also, by the same means, a single observatory 
at which constant observations are made during the whole 24 hours, may 
give notice to all persons along the telegraphic lines, of the occurrence of 
interesting meteorological phenomena, and thus simultaneous observations 
be secured. The advantage to agriculture and commerce to be derived 
from a knowledge of the approach of a storm by means of the telegraph, 
has been frequently referred to of la'e in the pablic journals. And this, we 
think, is a subject deserving the attention of the general government. 

Under the head of researches, I may mention that several papers are in 
preparation^ under the direction and partly at the expense of the Institu- 
tion. The first of these relates to a series of valuable observations on the 
temperature and velocity of the Gulf stream, the author of which the 
science of our country was called to mourn while he was engaged in an 
important public service. The observations are now in progress of reduc- 
tion, and the results will furnish an interesting memoir for the next vol- 
ume of our Contributions. 

The drawings and engravings of a paper on the botany of Oregon are 
also in progress, and as a small advance has been made to assist in complet- 
ing these, the memoir will fall under the head of original researches, m part 
conducted by the Institution. 

In the last report, it was mentioned that a magnetic survey of the mine- 
ral regions of the northern lakes had been added to the geological and 
mineralogical survey, the results of which were to be submitted to the 
Smithsonian Institution. An appropriation was made by the Secretary of 
the Treasury during the past summer for a continuation of this survey ; 
but on account of the lateness of the season at which the arrangement 
was made, the person to whom the work was entrusted, was not enabled 
to engage in it this year. Operations, however, will probably be com- 
menced as soon as practicable, next spring. 

There is in the Land Office a large collection of facts relative to the 
variation of the compass, which have been derived from the observations 
of the public surveyors, who are directed in ail cases to give the varia- 
tion of the needle, from the true meridian, at the several stations of 
their surveys. The observations are made with an instrument called the 
solar compass, which probably gives the variation at each place within a 
quarter of a degree of the truth. The number of these observations, it is 
believed, will make up in a considerable degree for their want of greater 
precision, and from the whole, the lines of declination may be detennined 
with considerable accuracy. The Secretary of the Treasury has liberally 
directed tliat all the matter relating to this subject in the land office may 
be placed at my disposal, and Mr. Wilson has undertaken to present the 
whole in a series of maps, the publication of which in the Contributions, 
cannot fail to be received as an interestins: addition to terrestial magnetism. 
Among the objects of research enumerated in the programme, is the 
analysis of soils and plants; but it is the policy of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, in order to employ its funds most eifectually in the way of in- 
creasing and diffusing knowledge, not to engage in any operation which 
could be as well if nut better carried on under the direction and with the 



J 




Mis. No. 48. ' . 17 

fluids of another institution. In accordance with this, an arrangement has 
been made with the Commissioner of i>atents that the two institutions mav 
not interfere with each other; and as, at tlie request of Mr. Burke an ap- 
propriation has been made by Congress for a series of experiments on the 
above-mentioned subjects, the Smithsonian Institution will, therefore for 
the present abandon tliis field of research for others less efTectuallv oc- 
cupied. ■' 

I may also mention in this connexion, that the Smithsonian Institution 
has been the means of starting an important literary enterprise, intended 

Mr. 
agent 

-. , . n ■ ' ^» '>^s 

commenced the preparation of a bibliographical work, comprising a de- 
scription of all books relative to, or published in America piior to the 
year 1700, and indicating not only the contents and value of the books, 
but also the principal libraries in this and other countries where they 
are to be fonnd. The preparation of a work of this kind will be in ac- 
cordance with that part of our plan Avhicli contemplates rendering the 
Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge, and will have a direct 
influence in promoting the objects of the various historical societies which 
are now established in almost every State of the Union, and in brino-inc^ 
the Institution into friendly relations with them. A certificate has been 
gi^en to Mr. Stevens to the effect that this work, if fl:)und, by a commis- 
sion to whom it shall be referred, properly executed, will be accepted for 
publication as part of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledf^e. 
Assured by this certificate that the work will be properly executed, a 
number of gentlemen and institutions, whose libraries will be examined and 
referred to, have liberally subscribed to defray the necessary expense of its 
preparation. With with this encouragement, Mr. Stevens has started for 
Europe to commence investigations in foreign libraries. To satisfy our- 
selves as to the importance of a work of this kind, a circular letter was ad- 
dressed to a number of individuals distinguished for their knowledge of 
such subjects, and the answer in nil cases was. highly favorable to the 
scheme. Some of these answers I have given in the appendix, together 
with the details of the plan of the work as proposed by Mr. Stevens. — (See 
appendix A.) 

At the last session of Congress an appropriation of $5,000 was made, on 
motion of Mr. Stanton, for a series of astronomical observations in the 
southern hemisphere for the purpose of a new determination of the paral- 
lax of the planets, and consequently of their distance from the sun by simul- 
taneous observations on the planets A^enus and Mars, made at places 
situated north and south of the equator. This appropriation has been 
found -inadequate to furnish all the instruments required, and inasmuch as 
the expedition should not be undertaken unless the observers are pro- 
vided with all the aids which the latest improvements in modern science 
can furnish, and since, to wait for an additional appropriation from Con- 
gress would cause the delay of a whole year, Lieut. Gilliss has applied to 
the Institution to purchase and lend to him an achromaticte lescope, which ^ 
if not paid for by an additional appropriation from the government, Avill, 
after its return from the south,.form part of the apparatus of the Institution. 
'I'his instrument will cost about $2,000, to be paid at the end of three 
years. The Executive Committee; to whom I applied for counsel on this 
2 



18 INIis. No. 48. 

subject, agreed with me in opinion, that this was a proper occasion for tht? 
application of the funds of the Institution to the promotion of science. Tlie 
instrument has accordingly been ordered to be constructed by an American 
artist, and to be accepted only in case its performance shall meet the ap- 
proval of a commission of practical astroujDmers appointed to examine it. 

The position on the coast of Chili to be occupied by the southern 
observers, is peculiarly favorable to die study of the facts connected v/ith 
one of the most mysterious and interesting phenomena of terrestrial phy- 
sics — namely, the earthquake. Lieut. Gilliss has been requested to give 
particular attention to this subject, and for the purpose of facilitating his 
inquires a pseismometer, or instrument for measuring tSie intensity and di- 
rection of the eari/nvace, has been ordered at the expense of the Institution, 
to be placed in charge of the expedition during its absence. The cost of 
this instrument is not yet ascertained 5 it will, however^ not exceed one 
hundred and fifty dollars. 

I think it highly probable that these instruments will be paid for by the 
general government. The liberal spirit which dictated the original appro- 
priation will, I doubt not, complete the outfit by the addition of a sum 
sufficient to defray all the necessary expenses.* 

Under the head of original researches, I may recall to the Regents the 
fact of my having been directed to continue my own investigations on 
physical science, and to report occasionally to the Board my progress 
therein. In the course of last year, I found an opportunity while at 
Princeton, to commence a scries of investigations on radiant heat, which 
apparently produced some results of interest, but which my subsequent 
engagements have prevented me from fully developing. I was also directed 
to cause to be made a series of experiments on the economical valu^ of 
building material. It will give me much pleasure to obey this instruction 
of the Board as soon as a place in the Smithsonian building and the neces- 
sary apparatus are procured for properly conducting the research* 

Reports on the progress af knowledge. 

The Smithsonian Contributions are intended to consist of entirely 
original additions to the sum of human knowledge, and are to be prin- 
cipally exchanged for the transactions of learned societies, and to be distri- 
buted among public institutions. The reports, on the other hand, are to 
be of a more popular kind, and are intended for as wide a distribution as 
the funds of the Institution or the means of publishing them may permit. 
They will give an account of the progress of the different branches of 
knowledge in every part of the world, and will supply a desideratum in 
English literature. 

The objects of the Smithsonian Institution are not educational. The 
press in our country already teems with elementary works on the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge, and to expend our funds in adding to these, 
would be to dissipate them without perceptible effect- Neither do we be- 
lieve that the distribution of penny magazines, or tracts on the rudiments 
of science, can ever supersede the labors of the school-master. As a gene- 
ral rule, knowledge presented in a fragmentary form, can only be useful to- 
minds well stored with general principles, to which the isolated facts may 

♦ Since writing this report, the appropriation has been made by Congiesa, 



i 



Mis. No. 48. 19 

be referred, and knowledge, both fragmentary and diluted, is almost worth- 
iess, even m the way of popnlar distribution. The eicnientarv principles 
of science may be systematically taught to a certain extent in common 
schools, and the reports we intend to publisli will be found of value to 
the teacher, and through him to the pupil, as well as interesting to the 
general reader. While these reports are rendered as free as possible from 
technical terms, they will treat of subjects requiring attention and thou<Wit 
to understand them. We think it better that they should be above, rather 
than below the average intelligence of the country; that they should start 
from a given epoch, and in most cases should be preceded by a brief ex- 
position of the previous state of each subject.* 

Arrangements have been made for commencing some of these prelimi- 
nary reports, as well as reports on the state of our knowledge of special 
subjects; among these are — 

1. A report on the present state of chemistry as applied to agriculture. 

2. A report on the forest trees of North America, giving their econoini- 
cal^ uses, their mode of propagation, and their history. 

3. A report on the present state of our knowledge of lightning, and 
the best means of guarding against accidents from its effects. 

4. A report on the late discoveries in astronomy; 

5. A report on meteorological instruments, with practical observations 
and directions with reference to the use of them. 

In connexion with this last report, I may mention that a proposition has 
been made to the Institution by Prof. Guyot, of the University of Neufchatel, 
relative to the importance of commencing at this epoch, and at the be- 
ginning of the labors of the Smithsonian Institution, the adoption of the 
centigrade scale of the thermometer. This is a suJjject, indeed, worthy 
of the attention of the Regents. It should, however, be discussed with 
caution, and be decided only after due deliberation. — (See appendix C.) 

The first idea of reports on the progress of knowledge, with which we 
are acquainted, is due to the Emperor Napoleon, who called upon the 
French Academy of Science to present him with accounts of the progress 
of the different branches of knowledge within a given period. Until within 
the last few years the only regular reports of the kind were those presented 
to the Swedish Academy. Since that time, however, a series of annual 
reports on chemistry have been commenced by an association of gentlemen 
in France, and also a series on the different branches of material science, 
by the Physical Society of Berlin. The several numbers of the latter are 
now in progress of translation, in order to furnish in part the materials for 
the reportSjlo be prepared for the Smithsonian Institution during the com- 
ing year. 

Although comparatively little has been done in our country in the way 
of original research, yet it might be important that the Institution should 
call for the preparation of a report on the history of the progress of original 
science in America down to the end of the present half century. This re- 
port would exhibit a constant increase in the number and importance of 
the researches made in our country, and might be found of much service 
in giving due credit to the labors of those who have been really engaged 
in the advance of knowledge among us. A report of this kind, however, 
would require the association of a number of persons combining literary 
with scientific attainments. 



20 Mis. No. 48. 

Occasional jjuhlication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest. 

This part of the plan of organization requires to be carried into operation 
with much caution. It is hable to much abuse, unless the publication be 
confined to a narrow class of subjects, viz : to scientific reports on the 
present state of knowledge of a given subject, to precede the periodical re- 
ports, to translations from foreign languages of papers of general interest, 
and occasionally, perhaps, the exposition of a subject on which, at a par- 
ticular time, popular knowledge is required. We should be careful not to 
establish a precedent which may lead us into difficulty, in the way of de- 
clining the publication of works which may be presented to us. Scarcely 
a week passes in which the Institution is not requested to publish some 
essay or compilation, and the funds which can be devoted to all our pub- 
lications would not suffice for one-half of those offered of this kind. The 
only work of this class which has yet been attempted by the Institution, is 
one entitled " Hints on Public Architecture," under the direction of the 
Building Committee. Although the Secretary's name Avas mentioned in 
the resolution authorizing the publication of this treatise, yet he has thus 
far had no connexion with it. The publication was authorized before the 
details of the plan of organization were fully settled. It was at first in- 
tended merely as a report of the Building Committee, giving an account of 
the plans submitted, and the one adopted for the Smithsonian building, 
together with a report of the investigations of the committee with regard 
to the materials of construction, 6lc. It was afterwards changed into the 
form of a regular treatise in order that it might be referred to a commission 
of persons chosen to examine it, and that the Institution might thus be re- 
lieved from the responsibility of pronouncing upon its fitness for publica- 
tion. I tliink it important that besides the preface of this work, a full ac- 
count of its origin should be given in an introductory advertisement. 

Library. 

During the past year the library has continued to increase by donations, 
and by the books which have been deposited by publishers, in accordance 
with the 10th section of the Act establishing the Institution. The require- 
ments of this Act are, however, not strictly observed by all publishers; and 
I would direct the attention of the board to a special report of the Assistant 
Secretary with reference to the point. The whole subject will probably 
come before Congress during its present session. 

Prof Jewett, the Assistant Secretary, has been industriously engaged 
during the past year in procuring statistics of the libraries in the United 
States, and in digesting plans for the details of the library of the institution, 
and I beg leave to refer ypu to the able and interesting report of the results 
of his labors, herewith submitted. A considerable portion of the copies of 
the Smithsonian Contributions will be presented to public institutions 
which publish transactions, and which are able to present us in return 
with additions to our library. The volume now in process of distribution 
has been preceded by a circular requesting exchanges of the works of all 
institutions which issue transactions and catalogues of all libraries to 
which the Contributions may be sent. 



Mis. No. 48. 21 

Preparation for lecturing. 

The plan of organization contemplates a series of free lectures, particu- 
larly during the session of Congress. These will be commenced as soon 
as the building is ready for the purpose. This part of the plan also cannot 
be put into full operation until after the building is completed. A number 
of gentlemen have consented to tavor us with their services. Men of 
talents, however, cannot be expected to leave their homes and subject 
themselves to the expense of visiting Washington, and to the trouble of 
preparing for a course of lectures without a proper remuneration. It will 
be necessary, therefore, that an aniuial appropriation be made for this pur- 
pose. The amount, however, must necessarily be small until the building 
is completed, or until all the interest of the fund can be devoted to the 
primary objects of the Institution. Besides this, the lecture-room in the 
east wing, now finished, will scarcely hold more than five hundred persons, 
while the one in the main building is intended to accommodate twice 
as many. 

Donation. 

Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia, having resigned the chair of chemistry 
in the University of Pennsylvania, which he had filled with honor to 
himself and his country for nearly thirty years, has presented to the 
Smithsonian Institution the instruments of research and illnstration, col- 
lected and used by himself during his long and successful scientific career. 
Many of these instruments are the invention of the donor, are connected 
with his reputation, and belong to the history of the science of our day. 
The gift is important, not only on account of its intrinsic value, but also as 
establishing a precedent of liberality, which we trust will be frequently 
observed by others, as well as being an expression of Dr. Hare's approba- 
tion of the plan and confidence in the stability of the InsUtuUon A num- 
ber ot" other donations have been received, of which a list, with the names 
of the donors, will be given in the next report. 

In view of what has been stated in the foregomg report, the Secretary 
trusts that the Board of Regents will be satisfied, if ever they had any 
doubts on the subject, that the plan adopted is one well calculated to carry 
out the benevolent intentions of the donor, of increasing and dittusing 
knowledge among men; and that a satisfactory answer has been given to 
the question frequently asked, namely, when is the Institution to begin.' 
It will be seen that it has commenced the most important part oUts opera- 
tions, and the results are now in progress of dissemination in every part ot 

the civilized world. , ^ , ,• .• .1 

For convenience of reference, I have appended for republication the pro- 
gramme and" its explanations, given in my last annual report. 

Respocfullysubmrned, j^g^pj, jjeXRY, . 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



9 



22 Mis. No. 48. 

Programme of organization of the SmitJiSonian Institution, presented in 
the first Annual Report of the Secretary and adopted by the Board of 
Regents, December 13, 1S4T. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS WHICH SHOULD SERVE AS A GUIDE IN ADOPTING 

A PLAN OF ORGANIZATION. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, " to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an estabhshment for the increase and diffusion ol 
knowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the 
United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently sup- 
posed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and perpetu- 
ate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are — 1st, to increase, and 2d, to diffuse 
knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of 
new truths ; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, 
among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating and 
promoting the discovery of new truths, and can be most efliciently diffused 
among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be 
such as to enable the Institution to produce results in the way of increasing 
and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the existing insti- 
tutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provision- 
ally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be aban- 
doned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to make up for the loss of time occasioned by the delay ot 
eight years in establishing the Institution, a considerable portion of the in- 
terest which has accrued should be added to the principal. 

11. In proj)ortion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the 
funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the construc- 
tion of the building ; and not only should the first cost of the edifice be 
considered, but rlso the continual expense of keeping it in repair, and of 
the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it. There 
should also be but few individuals pernmnenily supported by tlK^ Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by 
the plan of organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be benefit- 
ed by the bequest, and tliat, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure on 
local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from the 
will of Smith>on, regard must be had to certain re(iuircnients of the act of 
Congress establishing the Institution. 1'hese are a library ,a museum, and 
a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to contain them. 



Mis, No. 48. 23 

SECTION I. 

Plan of organization of the institution, in accordance with the foregoing 
deductions fi om the will of Smithson. 

To Increase Knowledge. It is proposed — ' 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering 
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re- 
searches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To Diffuse Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1 . To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the differ- 
ent branches of knowledge; and, 

2. To publisl> occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general in- 
terest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By stitnulating researches. 

1. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, «fcc., offered for original me- 
moirs on all branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, 
in a quarto form, and entitled ^' Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge." 

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be accepted for pub- 
lication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge 
resting on original research; and ail unverified speculations to be rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for exami- 
nation to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the branch 
to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publication only in 
case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and 
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favorable 
decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions of 
literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the colleges 
and .principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining copies 
may be ofiered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to form complete 
sets of the volume, to supply the demand from new institutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs to 
be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to Con- 
gress. 

II. By appropriating a portion of the i?icome, annually, to special objects 
of research, under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by 
counsellors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that m course 
of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, with 
the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contri- 
butions to Knowledge. 



24 Mis. No. 48. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 

(1.) System of extendedrneteorological observations, particularly with 
reference to the phenomena of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag- 
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation of 
a Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination of 
the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light; chemical 
analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of articles of science, 
accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, moral, 
and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in 
American history. 

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the different 
races of men in North America; also explorations and accurate surveys of 
the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By the piLhlication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new 
discoveries in science, and of the changes made front year to year in all 
branches of knowledge not strictly professional . 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interesting, 
but v/hich, at present, is inaccessible to the pubUc. Some of the reports 
may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the income of the 
Institution, or the changes in the branches of knowledge may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators, eminent in the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publications, 
domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report, to be 
paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-page of the 
report. 

(4.) The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons in- 
terested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it, without 
purchasing the whole. 

(5.) These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribution; 
the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institutions, and 
sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the 

reports. 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and 
meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, ttc. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to arts. 

11. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, an- 
tiquities, &c. 



• Mis. No. 48, ' 25 

6. Statistics and political economy, 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, <fcc. 

M^ III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general in- 
terest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs, trans- 
lated from foreign languages, or of articles preparctl under the direction of 
the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposition of 
a given subject. 

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission of 
competent judges previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the 
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the table 
of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Committee on 
Organization, viz: the statistics of labor, the productive arts of life, public 



instruction, &c 



SECTION II. 



Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the 
Board of Regents, ]jrovidi?ig for the two modes of increasing and diffu- 



sing knowledge. 



1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the 
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, including 
these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the income 
into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by 
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before 
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library and 
a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceedings 
of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more important cur- 
rent periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing the 
periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of ob- 
jects to verify its own publications. 

6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of experi- 
mental science. . 

T. With reference to the collection of books, other than those mentioned 
above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States should 
be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may be such 
as are not to be found in the United States. 



26 • Mis. No. 48. . 

, 8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and 
other materials, should be collected for rendering the institution a centre 
of bibliographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any 
work which he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase by 
donation, as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make provilfon 
for their reception, and therefore it will seldom be necessary to purchase 
any articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of arts casts of 
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense, 
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art Union and other similar- socie- 
ties. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of anti- 
quities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, (fcc. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides 
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act 
as librarian. 

14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence, with 
the advice of the Chancellor and other members of the establishment, of 
the literary and scientific operations of tfie institution; to give to the 
Regents annually an account of all the transactions; of the memoirs which 
have been received for publication; of the researches which have been 
made; and to edit, with the assistance of the librarian, the publications of 
the Institution. 

15. The duty of the Assistant Secretaiy, acting as librarian, will be, for 
the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and pur- 
chase, under the direction of the Secretary and a committee of the board, 
books and catalogues, and to procure the information before mentioned; to 
give information on plans of libraries, and to assist the Secretary in editing 
the publications of the Institution, and in the other duties of his office. 

16. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit new 
objects of art; also, distinguished individuals should be invited to give lec- 
tures on subjects of general interest. 

17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with the 
act of Congress, the charge of tlie National Museum is given to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, other assistants will be required. 

Explanations andillustrations of tlie programme. 

The programme embraces the general propositions adopted by the Board 
of Regents at their last meeting, as the basis of future operations. It is 
intended to harmonize the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowl- 
edge, and to give to the Institution the widest influence compatible with 
its limited income. That all the propositions will meet with general 
approval cannot be expected; and that this organization is the best that 
could be devised is neither asserted nor believed. To produce a priori a 
plan of organization which shall be found to succeed perfectly in practice, 
and* require no amendment, would be difficult under the UiOst favorable 
circumstances, and becomes almost impossible where conflicting opinions 
are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of the act establishing 



Mis. No. 48. 27 

the Institution are to be observed. It is not intended tliat the details of 
the organization, as given in the programme, should be permanently 
adopted without careful trial; they are rather presented as suggestions to 
be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into operation gradually and 
cautiously, with such changes, from time to time, as experience may dic- 
tate. ^ 

That the Institution is not a national establishment, in tlie sense in which 
institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must be evi- 
dent when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely given to the 
United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely: the estab- 
Hshment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name of the 
donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of all the 
good which may be accomplished by means of the bequest. The opera- 
tions of the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be mingled as little 
as possible with those of the government, and its funds should be applied 
exclusively and faithfully to the increase and diflusion of knowledge 



among men. 



That the bequest is intended for the benefit of men in general, and tliat 
its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even nation, 
may be inferred not only from the words of the will, but also from the 
character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote from a scrap of 
paper in his own hand, the following sentiment bearing on this point: 
"*The man of science has no country; the world is his country — all men, 
his countrymen." The origin of the funds, the bequest of a foreigner, 
should also preclude the adoption of a plan which does not, in the words 
of Mr. Adams, " spread the benefits to be derived from the Institution not 
only over the whole surface of this Union, but throughout the civilized 
world," " Mr. Smithson's reason for fixing the seat of his Institution at 
Washington obviously was, that thc)-c is the seat of government of the 
United States, and there the Congress by whose legislation, and the Ex- 
ecutive through whose agency, the trust committed to the honor, intelli- 
gence, and good faith of the nation, is to be fulfilled." The centre of 
operations being permanently fixed at Washington, the character of this 
city for literature and science will be the more highly exalted in proportion 
as the influence of the Institution is more widely diflused. 

That the terms increase and diffusion of knowledge are logically dis- 
tinct, and should be literally interpreted widi ref-rencc to the will, must be 
evident when we reflect that they are used in a definite sense, aiid not as 
mere synonymes, by all who are engaged in die pursuits to which Smidison 
devoted his life. In England there are two classes of institutions, founded 
on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. The Royal 'Society, the Astro- 
nomical, the Geological, the Staiistical, the Antiquarian Societies, all have 
for their object the increase of knowledge; wliile the I.ondon Institution, 
the Mechanics' Institution, the Surry Institution, the Society for the Dif- 
fusion of Religious Knowledge, the Society for the Diflusion of Useful 
Knowledge, are all intended to diffuse or disseminate knowledge among 
men. In our own country, also, the same distinction is observed m the use 
of the terms by men of science. Our colleges, academies, and common 
schools, are recognized as institutions partially intended for the diflusion ot 
knowledge, while the express object of some of our scienUliC societies is 
the promotion of the discovery of new truths. , i • j r i i 

The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular- kind of knowl- 



28 Mis. No. 48. 

edge; though propositions have been frequently made for devoting the 
funds exchisively to the promotion of certain branches of science having 
more immediate apphcation to the practical arts of life, and the adoption of 
these propositions lias been urged on the ground of the conformity of such 
objects to the pursuits of Smithson; but an examinalion of his writings 
will show that he excluded from hie own studies no branch of general 
knowledge, and that he was fully impressed with the important philosoph- 
ical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great system of 
truth. To restrict, therefore, the operations of the institution to a single 
science or art, would do injustice to the character of the donor, as well as 
to the cause of general knowledge If preference is to be given to any 
branches of research, it should be to the higher, and apparently more ab- 
stract; to the discovery of new principles, rather than of isolated facts. And 
this is true even in a practical point of view. Agriculture would have for- 
ever remained an empirical art, had it not been for the light shed upon it 
by the atomic theory of chemistry; and incomparably more is to be ex- 
pected as to its future advancement from the perfection of the microscope, 
than from improvements in the ordinary instruments of husbandry. 

The plan of increasing and ditlusing knowledge, presented in the first 
section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance with the sev- 
eral propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in the in- 
troduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design of interesting 
the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the Institution, and 
of spreading its influence as widely as possible. It forms an active organ- 
ization, exciting all to make original researches who are gifted with the 
necessary p(3wer, and diffusing a kind of knowledge, now only accessible 
to the few, among all those who are willing to receive it. In this country, 
though many excel in the application of science to the practical arts of life, 
few devote themselves to the continued labor and patient thought neces- 
sary to the discovery and development of new truths. The principal 
cause of this want of attention to original research, is the want, not of 
proper means, but of proper encouragement. The publication of original 
memoirs and periodical reports, as contemplated by the progrannne, will 
act as a powerful stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by placing 
in bold relief the real laborers in the field of original research, while it will 
afford the best materials for the use of those engaged in the diffusion of 
knowledge. 

The advantages which will accrue from the plan of«publishing the vol- 
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, are various. In the 
first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favorably known 
wherever literature and science are cultivated, and to keep it in continual 
remembrance with each succeec\ing volume, as long as knowledge is val- 
ued. A single new truth, first given to the woild through these volumes, 
will forever stamp their character as a work of reference. The contribu- 
tions will thus form the most befitting monument to perpetuate the name 
of one whose life was devoted to the increase of knowledge, and whose 
ruling passion, strong in death, prompted the noble bequest intended to 
facilitate the labors of others in the same pursuit. 

Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs will 
afford to the institution the most ready means of entering into friendly 
relations and correspondence with all the learned societies in the world, 
and of enriching its library with their current transactions and proceedings. 



Mis. No. 48. 29 

But perhaps the most important effect of the plan will be tliat of living to 
the world many vakiable memoirs, which, on account oi^ the expense ol the 
iUustrations, could not be otherwise published. Every one who adds 
new and important truths to the existing stock of knowledge, must be of 
necessity, to a certain degree, in advance of his age. Hence the number 
of readers and purchasers of a M-ork is generally in the inverse ratio of its 
intrinsic value; and consequently, authors of the highest rank of merit are 
frequently deterred from giving their productions to the world on account 
of the pecuniary loss to which the publication would subject them. When 
our lamented countryman, Bowditch, contemplated publishing his com- 
mentary on La Place, he assembled his family and informed them that the 
execution of this design would sacrifice one-third of his fortune, and that 
it was proper his heirs should be consulted on tlie subject which so nearly 
concerned them. The answer was wortliy of the children of .such a father: 
''We value," said they, "your reputation more than your money." 
Fortunately, in this instance, the means of making such a sacrifice existed; 
otherwise one of the proudest monuments of American science could rfot 
have been given to the world. In a majority of cases, however, those 
who are most capable of extending human knowledge are least able to in- 
cur the expense of the publication. Wilson, the American Ornithologist, 
states, in a letter to Michaux, that he has sacrificed everything to publish 
his work: " I have issued," he says, " six volumes, and am engaged on 
the seventh, but as yet I have not received a single cent of the proceeds." 
In an address on the subject of natural history, by one of our most active 
cultivators of this branch of knowledge, we find the following remarks, 
which are directly in point: " Few are acquainted with the fact that from 
the small number of scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates, 
our na.turalists not only are not paid for their labors, but suffer pecuniary 
loss from their publications. Several works on ditlerent branches of zoology, 
now in course of publication, will leave their authors loses to an aggregate 
amount of ;gl5,000. I do not include in this estin)ate works already fin- 
ished — one, for instance, the best contribution to the natural history of 
man extant, the publication of which will occasion its accomplished author 
a loss of several thousand dollars. A naturalist is extremely fortunate it 
he can dispose of 200 copies of an illustrated work, and the number ot 
copies printed rarely exceeds 2.50." It may be said that these authors 
have their reward in the reputation which they thus purchase; but rep- 
utation should be the result of the talents and labor expended in the pro- 
duction of a work, and shoidd not in the least depend upon the fact that 
the author is able to make a pecuniary sacrifice in giving the account 
of his discoveries to the public. 

Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published m 
the Smithsonian Contributions free of expense, his labors will be given to 
the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of learned men, and 
his merits will be generally made known through the reports of the insu- 
tution. Though t1ie premiums offered may be small, yet they Y''V^,^\^ 
considerable effect in producins: original articles. Fifty or a hundred dol- 
lars awarded to the author of an original paper, wdl, m many instances, 
suffice to supply the books, or to pay for the materials, or the maimal labor 
required; in prosecuting the research. , . , 

There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to mucn 
discussion, and which, therefore, requires particular explanation j 1 alluUe 



30 Mis. No. 48. 



• 



to that which exchides from the contributions all papers consisting merely 
of unverified speculations on subjects of physical science. The object of 
this proposition is to obviate the endless difficulties which would occur in 
rejecting papers of an un philosophical character; and though it may in 
some cases exclude an interesting communication, yet the strict observance 
of it will be found of so much practical importance that it cannot be dis- 
pensed with. It has been supposed, from the adojition of this proposition, 
that we are disposed to undervalue abstract speculations: on the contrary, 
we know that all the advances in true science— namely, a knowledge of 
the laws of phenomena — are made by provisionally adopting well-condi- 
tioned hypotheses, the product of the imagination, and subsequently veri- 
fying them by an appeal to experiment and observation. Every new hy- 
pothesis of scientific value musf not only furnish an exact explanation of 
known facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind and quantify, the 
phenomena which will be exhibited under any given combinaiion of cir- 
cumstances. Thus, in the case of the undulatory hypothesis of light, it 
was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the supposition were true 
that light consisted of waves of an ethereal medium, then two rays of light, 
like two waves of water under certain conditions, should annihilate each 
other, and darkness be produced. The experiment was tried, and the 
anticipated result was obtained. It is this exact agreement of the deduc- 
tion with the actual result of ex-perience that constitutes the verification of 
an hypothesis, and which alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to 
a place in the transactions of a scientific institution. It must be recollected 
that it is much easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few 
of all the hypotheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific 
verification. 

For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a 
memoir, and the precaution taken betbre it is accepted for publication, I 
would refer* to the correspondence relative to the memoir now in process 
of publication by the institution. The memoir was referred to the Ameri- 
can Ethnological Society, with a request that a committee of its members 
might be appointed to examine and report on its character, as to fitness for 
publication in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. On the 
favorable report of this conmiittee, and on the responsibility of the society, 
the memoir was accepted for publication. 

As it is not our intention to interfere with the proceedings of other in- 
stitutions, but to CO operate with them, so far as our respective operations 
are compatible, comnumicat'ons may be referred to learned societies for in- 
spection, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir, and abstracts of 
them given to the world'through the bulletins of these societies, \vhile the 
details of the memoirs and their expensive illustrations are published in the 
volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. The officers of several learned 
societies in this country have expressed a willingness to co-operate in this 
way. 

Since original research is the most direct means of increasing knowledge, 
it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the bequest should 
be appropriated to this purpose, provided suitable persons can be found, 
and their labors be directed to proper objects. The number, however, of 
those who are capable of discovering scientific principles is comparatively 

* See first volume of the Smithsonian Contributiona. 



Mis. No. 48 3i 

small ; like the poet, they are " born, not made," and, like Iiim, must be 
left tociioose then- own subject, and wait the fittini^ time of inspiration 
In case a person of this chiss has tlillen on a vein of discovery, and is'pnr- 
sumg It with success, the better plan will be to grant him a small sum of 
money to carry on his investigation, provided they are considered worthy 
of assistance by competent judges. This will have the double effect of en- 
couraging hmi m the pursuit, and of facilitating his progress. The Institu- 
tion, however, need not depend upon cases of this kind, even if they were 
more numerous than they arc, for the application of its funds in the line of 
original research. There are large fields of observation and experiment, 
the cultivation of which, though it may afford no prospect of the discovery 
of a principle, can hardly fail to produce results of importance both in a 
practical and a theoretic point of view. As an illustration of this remark, 
I may mention the case of the investiirations made a few years ago by 
committees of the Franklin Institute, of Philadelphia. The Secretary of 
the Treasury of the United States placed at the disposal of this society a 
sum of money, for the purpose of making experiments with reference to 
the cause of the explosion of steam-boilers. A committee of the society 
was chosen for this purpose, which adopted the ingenious plan of writinf^ 
to all persons in the United States engaged, in the application of steam, and 
particularly to those who had observed the explosion of a steam-boiler. 
In this M-ay opinion^ and suggestions in great variety, as to the cause of 
explosions, were obtained. The most plausible of these were submitted to 
the test of experiment : tke results obtained were highly important, and are 
to be found favorably mentioned in every systematic work on tlie subject 
of steam which has appeared, in any language, within the last few years. 
New and important facts were established; and, what was almost of as much 
consequence, errors which had usurped the place of truth were dethroned. 

In the programme, examples are given of a few subjects of original re- 
search to which the attention of the Institution may be turned. I will men- 
tion one in this place, which, in connexion with the contents of our first 
memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude to a small appropria- 
tion made annually for researches with reference to the remains of the an- 
cient inhabitants of our country. This is a highly interesting field, and 
what is done in regard to it should be done quickly. Every year tlie pro- 
gress of civilization is obliterating the ancient mounds, cities and villages 
are rising on the spots they have so long occupied undisturbed, and the 
distinctive marks of these remains are every year becoming less and less 
legible. 

In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affecting 
men in general by the operations of the Institution, it is evident that the 
principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the press. Though lec- 
tures should be given in the city in which Smithson has seen fit to direct 
the establishment of his Institution, yet, as a plan of general diftusion of 
knowledge, the system of lectures would be entirely inadequate ; every vil- 
lage in our extended country would have a right to demand a share of the 
benefit, and the income of the institution would be insufficient to supply 
a thousandth part of the demand. It is also evident that the knowledge 
diffused should, if possible, not only embrace all branches of general inter- 
est, so that each reader might find a subject suited to his taste, but also that 
it should differ in kind and quality from that which can be readily obtained 
through the cheap publications of the day. These conditions will 1^ fully 



32 Mis. No. 48. 

complied with in the piibhcations of the series of reports proposed in the 
programme. A series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all the discov- 
eries^n science from time to time, and giving a well digested account of all 
the important changes in the different branches of knowledge, is a desider- 
atum in the English language. The idea is borrowed from a partial plan of 
this kind in operation in Sweden and Germany; and for an example ol what 
the work should be, I would refer to the annual report to the Swedish 
Academy of its perpetual secretary, Berzelius, on physical science. The re- 
ports can be so prepared so as to be highly interesting to the general reader, 
and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive cultivator of a par- 
ticular branch of knowledge. Full references should be given, in foot- 
notes, to the page, number or volume of the work from whicii the informa- 
tion was obtained, and where a more detailed account can be found. It is 
scarcely necessary to remark, that the preparation of these reports should 
be intrusted only to persons prpfoundly acquainted with ihe subjects to 
which they relate — namely, to those who are devoted to particular branches, 
while they possess a knowledge of general principles. Sufficient explana- 
tions should be introduced to render the report intelligible to the general 
reader, without destroying its scientific character. Occasionally reports 
may be obtained from abroad — as, for example, accounts of the progress of 
certain branches of knowledge in foreign countries — and these nmy be 
translated, if necessary, and incorporated into other reports, by some com- 
petent person in this country. 

Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme pro- 
poses to publish occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. There 
are always subjects of general interest, of which brief expositions would 
be of much value. The preparation of these, however; should be intrusted 
to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be subjected 
to a revision by competent and responsible judges before they are given to 
the public. They may be presented in the form of reports on the existing 
state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may sometimes consist 
of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of literature and science, 
translated from foreign languages. The reports and treatises of the insti- 
tution, sold at a price barely suflicient to pay the expense of printing, will 
find their way into every school in our country, and will be used not as 
first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of reliable information for the 
teacher. 

The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been 
made out, the details of the part of the plan of organization directed by the 
act of ('ongress establishing the Institution. The two plans, namely, that 
of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects of 
nature and art, are not incomjxitible, and may be carried on harmoniously 
with each other. The only efiect which they wdll have on one another 
is that of limiting the operation of each, on account of the funds given to 
the other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical expendi- 
ture of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the plan of finance, 
suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the building, much good 
may be effected in each of the two branches of the institution. To carry 
on the operations of the first, a working library will be required, consisting 
of the past volumes of the transactions and proceedings of all the learned 
societies in every language. These are the original sources from which 
the most important principles of the positive knowledge of our day have 



Mis. No. 48. 33 

^een drawn. We shall also require a collection of the most important cur- 
rent literature and science for the use of the collaborators of the reports ; 
most of tliese, however, will be procured in exchange lor the publications 
of the Institution, and therefore will draw but little^from the library fund. 
For otiier suggestions relative to the details of the library, I would refer to 
the report of the assistant secretary, acting as librarian. 

The collections of the Institution, as far as possible, should consist of 
such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the 
visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan be 
kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals. A 
general collection of all objects of nature and of art properly arranged and 
deposited in one place, would form a museum of the highest interest; but 
the portion of the income of the bequest -which can be devoted to the in- 
crease and maintenance of the museum, will be too small to \varrant any 
attempt towards an indiscriminate collection. It is hoped that in due time 
other means may be found of establishing and supporting a general collec- 
tion of objects of nature and art at the seat of the general government, with 
funds not derived from the Smithsonian bequest. For the present, it 
should be the object of the Institution to confine the application of the 
funds, first, to such collections as will tend to facilitate the study of the 
memoirs which may be published in the Contributions, and to establish 
their correctness; secondly, to the purchase of such objects as are not gene- 
rally known in this country, in the way of art, and the illustration of anti- 
quities, such as models of buildings, &c.; and thirdly, to the formation of 
a collection of instruments of physical research, which will be required 
both in the illustration of new physical truths, and in the scientific in- 
vestigations undertaken by the institution. 

Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the institution at 
Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on stated even- 
ings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assemblies, 
after the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution in Lon- 
don. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture, new 
truth in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited. Be- 
sides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects by the 
officers of the Institution, or by distinguished individuals invited for the 
purpose. 

Respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



84 Mis. No. 48. 



REPORT OF TFIE ASSISTANT srXRETARY RELATIVE TO THE LIERARV — 

PRESENTED DECEMBER 13, 184S. 

To the Secretary of the, SmitJisonian Institution : 

Sir: At the last meetino-of the Board of Regents the followuig duties 
Avere assigned to me (in- the year which is about to close, viz: 

1. " The preparation of catalogues of books suitable for the commence- 
ment of the library, in accordance with the plan of organization adopted 
by the Board of Regents. 

2. " The purchase of the more necessary works on bibliograpliy. 

•3. '^ The collection and systematic arrangement for purposes ofcomparison 
of the printed catalogues of the principjd libraries throughout the United 
States, together with information with regard to the expenditures, plans of 
increase, and other particulars relating to said libraries. 

4. '' The collection of works to which the institution may be entided 
under the tenth section of the act establishing the Institution." 

The first of these duties which demanded my attention after the ad- 
journment of the Board of Regents, was the collection of the works to 
which the institution is entiUed by the tenth section of the charter. After 
examining the subject carefully, 1 made a special report thereon to the Sec- 
retary and Library Committee, a copy of which is herewith submitted. 

The next subject to which I devoted my attention was the gathering of 
information respeeting public libraries in the United States. It is a singu-^ 
lav, and to us a mortifying fact, that the most accurate account of American 
libraries was published in Germany, and has never been translated into 
English. In 1845, ..'G there appeared in the " Serapeum,*" a journal 
published at Leipzig, a series of articles upon bibliography and libraries in 
the United States. These articles, forming about ninety pages octavo^ 
were written by Hermann E. Ludewig, formerly of Dresden, at pres- 
ent a lawyer in the city of New York. Having a strong predilec- 
tion for bibliographical pursuits, he collected, during a journey which he 
performed through the United States, all the information within his reach 
respecting the librai-ies, public and private, the book trade, and the bibli- 
ography of the general and local history of thecountry. The results of his 
researches have been given to the public in the articles to which I have 
already referred, and in an 8vo. volume of ISO pages, published for private 
distribution, entitled " The Literature of American Local History; a Bibli- 
ographical Essay, New York, IS40." The fullness and accuracy of the 
details which he has given are remarkable. I have made free use of them, 
and have found my labors much facilitated by so doing. 

I have, besides, visited and examined many of the principal libraries. 
I have also prepared, for the purpose of eliciting further information, a cir- 
cular letter to librarians, a copy of which accompanies this report. 
This letter was distributed together with the first volume of our '- Contri- 



*Serapeum. Zeitschriftfiir Bibliothekwissenschaft, HandsRhrifienkunde,undaeltere Literatur. 
Heraus. von Dr. Robert Naumann, Leipz g, T. 0. Weigel, 1840 ff. (See 184S, pp. 209— 2;54, and 
184C, pp. 113—172, 177—190; 190— 1D2, 204—206.) 



Mis No. 48. 85 

biitjons to Knowledge." I regret tliat iho answers to tlie queries liave not 
all been received, so that I am unable at present to oiler a full report re- 
specting Uieni. q^he most important statistics have, however, been ob- 
tained. I liese arc presented in an accompanying document. I beg leave 
here to otter some important deductions from the facts contained in this 
paper. 

The aggregate number of volumes in the public libraries of the United 
States is about 1 ,294 ,000. These are distributed among 1 82 libraries. Forty- 
three of these libraries contain over 10,000 volumes each; nijie over20 000 
each; and only two over 50,01K}. The library of Harvard University,' the 
largest this side the Atlantic, contains, together with the libraries of the 
law^ school and divinity school, upwards of 70,000 volumes. 

These statements enable us to institute an instructive comparison be- 
tween our libraries and those of the principal nations of Europe. It should 
be premised, however, that it is a very ditflcult thing to procure exact stak.sfics 
of libraries. With reference to France, Germany, Belgium, Russia, and 
Spain, we are in possession of comparatively accurate returns. With re- 
spect to Great Britain, Holland, Sweden, Denmark, and ^'or\vay, those 
which I give below are as accurate as I could procure, though certainly 
iiot very satisfactory. I am not acquainted with any book which gives a 
good account of the present condition of libraries in several of these coun- 
tries except one,* to which I have not had access. For greater conve- 
nience of reference and comparison, I present these statistics in a tabular 
form. 

The first column of the table gives the name of the country. 

The second, the year to which the statistics relate. 

The third, the number of public libraries. 

By public libraries are not meant those exclusively which are opened to 
the public without restriction, but rather those belonging to public insti- 
tutions, and which are accessible under proper regulations to persons who 
wish to consult them for literary purposes. 

The fourth column contains the aggregate number of volumes in the 
libraries. 

The fifth gives the number of libraries containing over 10,000 volumes 
each. 

The sixth, the average number of volumes in libraries containing over 
10,000 volumes each. 

The seventh, the number of volumes in the largest library of eacli 
country. 

The eighth, the number of volumes to every million of inhabitants. 



* 1 allude to the Arahiv der Gesellsehaft fiir aeltere deutsche Geschitskunde. Heraus-^. v. G. 
H. Periz. Rd. 8. Hannov, Hahii, 1843, 8°. Petzholdt in the Anzeiger fiir Literatur der 
Bibliothekwissenschafl for 1843, terms this an almost inexhaustible source of information 021 

European Libraries. „ , . rr.. • /• 

Nq^j, Since writin<^ the above, 1 have received the volume alluded to. 1 he information 

which it contains, though fully justifying the expression of Putzholdt, relates principally to the 
manuscript treasures of the liuraries, and is not of a statistical character. 




article 

The original article 1 have not as yet been able to procure. It appears to have been prepared 
with gre'atcare and a wide examination of authorities. It would doubtless have saved n;e much 
laborfous research had 1 seen it before writing my report. 



36 



Mis. No. 48, 



•siuuiiqstjui uo][ 


C>7 000''~^^~"'^''^'~~0 


-JIUi Xj9.\9 01 0^ 


^-ooooooo — CJ 


•uoiiBindod 94J 




0) sj{ooq JO jaq 
-uinu OAjiB-iTsdiuoQ 


o »o ro O) -rt O CO C: o o 
fO'^oocMcr.roioCQroo 


r— 1 r— 1 00 rH T— 1 l— 1 




oooooooooo 




oooocc-oooo 


•S31J 


ooooooocoo 


-i3.iqi[ iseS.iEi 9t'ji 




ui sgiunjoA jo -o^ 


O 3 0> to I- O O O O OJ 




O (X) ■^ ■<* -^ ^ rH Oi ^ 




oooooooooo 


•S9iim 


ooooooooco 


-[OA puBsnoqi ua] 


o^ o^ o^ c^ o^ o^ :r^ o^ o^ q^ 


J9A0 JO E9|JB.iq 


o' 'rf lo" c? i-T co" wf CO i^ -^ 


COCOOOOr-iOJCO-^Vil- 


-]\ JO 9Z1S 9^L'i9Ay 


r-l 


•S9LUniOA 




pUBSnOip U9) J9AO 


CO T-t M O CO lO O ^- W5 (M 
O 01 Ol 1—1 •«* r-l 


liaTA\ S9U€Jqil JO 0^ 


T— 1 




OOOOOOWOi^fO 




COOO — OOC^JO^OX 


•sauirqoA 10 


cr^ o^ o^ 1-;^ o^ o^ i-^ o _ Lo^ 'i-^ 


jaqmnu 9iB:59jSSv 


I- t^ o 07 cr. o r-H io »o «:> 




>-0 l- C: CO CQ O O CO CO rH 




r^ #N »N *^ »N 




W5 -^ 05 i-H i-H 




co-^-^croJco— '•-o^-'^ti 


•sgUBjqii JO -0^ 


O-^C0iMC/)--iC0.— iG<>T-i 

T— 1 OJ 1— 1 t— 1 




>-0 '^ O CO l^ O r-l T-J «ti (M 


•S3pST]1B)3 JO 9?BQ 


•^■^'Tf'^'^-^-^'^CO'* 
CCOjQOQOCXOOCZjQOOOOO 




I 1 1 I 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 




■*-' 








■^ 




O) 




n3 




,_4l tl II 1 II II 


, 


5 


b 


a 


c 


'B cs 


3 


CO O 


o 


r— ! -f-^ 


o 


■-^ 1 1 1 1 fl 1 1 1 t 1 


u 


<1 ?:J 




tiO s 


%^ 


c -tl 


o 


• « 


4> 


TS Vh 


s 


3 , I , 1 O 


^ . 






•'-' 'S es 




'^ *J -tZ . . 




many 
Hand 
nee 
at Bri 
jsia 

imark 

giiun 

eden 

in 

way 










a ^0^:^PiK(/2U2^- 



Mis. No. 48. 37 

This table enables us to estimate at a glance, and with a good deoree of 
aecuracy the relative value of the public provisions made in Europe and 
America for general intellectual culture, as well as of thote for the most 
extensive scientific and literary research. 

It will be seen that in the number of public libraries, France is the only 
country in the world which excels us. It should be observed that the 
returns respecting France are official and minute, including Hhraries of not 
more than 500 volumes. Many of our public schools, however, p(jssess 
libraries larger than these, but they are not enumerated in our lists. If 
they were, they would swell the number of American libraries far beyond 
that of any other country in the world. 

In the aggregate number of volumes in the public libraries, Germany, 
France, Great Britain, and Russia, are before us. .Were all the district 
school libraries and village collections in the United Slates included in the 
estimate, we should probably take the fourth rank. 

In the average size of libraries contahiing over ten tJiousand volumes we 
are the last of all. 

In the size of the largest library we also stand last of all. 

In the number of volumes, compared with tlte population, we rank below 
all but Russia and Spain. 

These results show that in public provisions for the general difl'usion of 
knowledge by means of libraries, we stand in the very first rank among 
the nations; and when we consider the cheapness of our publications, 
and the vast number of them scattered over the land, M'ith the extent of 
our periodical literature, we may justly and proudly challenge a compari- 
son with any nation in the world for the means of general culture. This, 
certainly, is much for a country so new, whose chief energies have, as a 
matter of necessity, been directed to the felling of forests, the clearing 
of lands, and the support of physical life. It shows, as well remarked by 
a foreign writer, " that the men who, with steady and vigorous hand, have 
known how to rule themselves, and be completely free, have well dis- 
cerned the foundations upon which alone the weal of a free State can safely 
repose." 

But this deduction, so full of encouragement, so fraught with matter for 
gratulation and pride, must be followed by others of a different character. 

The statistics given indicate, that while no country in the world has 
done so much for diffusing knowledge, none has done so little towards 
furnishing the means which public libraries can supply for its increase. 
It was doubtless the first duty of the infant i;ppublic to provide that all 
should know something, that the mass of the people should be elevated 
and enlightened. It has now become her duty to see to it, that no bounds 
are placed to the culture that each may obtain if he chooses. Now, in 
the hour of her strength, she ought to provide for her citizens the means of 
as high cultuie, of as profound research, of as noble advances m science, 
literature, and art, as are enjoyed by the citizens of any other nation in the 
world. She should take care that wliile the poor man's son may obtain 
that elementary education which will enable him to perform the duties of a 
good and intelligent citizen, he be not, by his poverty, debarred froin the 
higher walks of science and literature; that there be no monopoly ol learn- 
ing by the rich— by those who are able to study at the institutions of Eu- 
rope, or to surround themselves by the books which they need at home. 
Our condition in these respects has been deeply lamented by our scholars, 



38 Mis. No. 48. 

At various times strong- efforts have been made for its improvement. At 
length tlie munificent bequest of a foreigner, placed at the disposal of 
Congress, furnished the means of meeting this, among other demands 
of science and letters. In the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian 
Institution, and in the acts of the Board of Regents for the organization of 
the same, a large public library forms a prominent feature. 

It has been supposed by some, not acquainted with researches requiring 
many books, that very large libraries are superfluous. They calculate, 
perhaps, how many books a man can read in a long life, and ask what 
can be the use of more. Nay, evep many men fond of reading feel like an 
Enghsh writer of some note, who describes his pain as amounting to 
" midsummer madness" when he entered a large library and reflected how 
small a number of all the books it contained he could read through. 

'^ In my youthful days," says De Q,uincey, " I never entered a great 
library, say of 100,000 volumes, but my predominant feeling was one of 
pain and disturbance of mind, not much unlike that which drew tears from 
Xerxes, on reviewing his immense army, and reflectmg that in 100 years 
no one soul would remain alive. To me, with respect to the books, the 
same effect would be brought about by my death. Here, said I, are 
100,000 books, the worst of l hem capable of giving nie some pleasure and 
instruction, and before I can have had time to extract the honey from one- 
twentieth of this hive, in all likelihood I shall be summoned away." 

" Now 1 have been told by an eminent English author, that with res- 
pect to one single work, viz: the History of Thuanus, a calculation has 
been made by a Portuguese monk, whicli showed that barely, to read over 
the works, and allowing no time for reflection, would require three years 
labor at the rate of, I think, three hours a day. Further, I had myself 
ascertained that to read a duodecimo volume in prose of four hundred 
pages, all skipping being barred, and the rapid reading which belongs to 
the vulgar interest of a novel, was a very suflicient work for one day. 
Consequently 365 per annum, that is with a very small allowance for the 
claims of life on one's own account, and on that of one's friends, one thou- 
sand for every triennium, that is ten thousand in thirty years, will be 
as much as a man who lives for that only can hope to accomplish. From 
the age of twenty to eighty, the utmost he could hope to travel through 
would be twenty thousand volumes, a number not, perhaps, above five 
per cent, of what the mere current literature of Europe would accumulate 
in that period of years." 

Now, supposing for a n^oment that there were no other use to be made 
of books but the reading of them through at so many pages the hour, one 
would think it might have occured to this writer that there are among the 
frequenters of a large library a great variety of men, with a wide diversity 
of niterests, tastes and pursuits; that tliough each might not be able to read 
through more than two thousand books — one-tenth part of the supposed 
number — still fifty men, whose reading was in diffierent directions, might 
call for a hundred thousand. 

But apart from this consideration, and above it, is another of far more 
importance to the scholar. It is that this view of the use to be made of a 
large collection of books is founded upon an utter misapprehension of the 
relation of books and libraries to learning. 

There are three uses to be made of books by those v/ho understand theifr 
value. 



Mis. No. 48. 30 

The first is for reading. This, paradoxical as the assertion may sound, 
is the least important of liieir uses. By reading I mean cursory'perusal, 
such as the writer ahove quoted describes. Reading as a jiaslime — reail- 
in2 for the acquiring of general information — reading as a means of refining 
and cultivating the tastes — is, indeed, indispensable to every well edu- 
cated man. And. the means of such reading in this country are largely 
supplied by our circulating libraries, athenaoums, book auctions, and cheap 
publications. But the scholar has need of books for other and higher pur- 
poses, 

A second important use of books is for study. By study, I mean that 
vigorous mental application, which is necessary in order to fully conipn;- 
hend, weigh, analyse, and appropriate the thoughts, facts, and arguments 
of an author. It is study which disciplines the mind; which trains the 
intellect for the rapid accumulation and appropriate use of knowledge. It 
is study which gives education, which developes the faculties. IjuI it is 
evident that for study one needs even fewer books, if they be rightly chosen, 
than for reading. 

^riie third use to be made of books is for reference. 

Every man has occasion to refer to a dictionary or an encyclopssdia. Yet 
whoever undertakes to read one through? Every one accustomed to com- 
position sometimes has occasion to trace the history and meaning of a 
word. '' There are cases," says Coleridge, <' in which more knowledge 
of more value may be conveyed by the history of a word than by the his- 
tory of a ceunpaigii." But to learn the history or usage of a single word 
we may be compelled to look into five, twenty, or fifty dictionaries in dif- 
ferent languages. 

Now the use of books by scholars is in general analogous to the use of 
a dictionary bv any intelligent man. There are some sciences which seem 
to require less'the aid'of libraries than others. It may even be true that 
some important discoveries have been the result of mere accident. But 
such is not the general rule. The progress of science is not fortuitous. 
Nature does not often disclose her treasures upon a blundering invUation. 
She must be diligently sought. He who would make valuable discoveries, 
must, as a general thing, prepare himself by a thorough acquaintance with 
the present condhion and tendencies of the science which he cultivates. 

He must do more, much nnire. " Of every branch of the two great 
subdivisions of human learning," (viz: science and literature,) says an 
able writer, ''its history is a constituent part, absolutely necessary to all 
who would be competent to form just opinions on its present state. He must 
know the past in order to appreciate the present, and in order to help shape 
the future. He must not only be able to place himself on the ine of dc- 
marcation between the unknown and the known, but li he would penetrate 
the darkness of the former, he must have gained his direction by a carelul 
tracing out of the analogies of the latter. Consequently he must give him- 
self to long-continued, patient, laborious study of the history of science 

Moreover, it is not only necessary to study thatscience which one xusl cs 
to enlarge by his discoveries: he must be fUmihar with the subjects ^ Inc 
are allied to it. But where can we find the limits of any science ? A 
knowledge is bound together by an nuhssoluble, though ometmes^^^^^^ 

invisible^ond. He who is versed in ^"\ ^"^^ ^ iTlrl' Iv ac' 
and is entirely ignorant of others, cannot be said to ^« '^?''^ f ' f J?" 
.iuainted with any. In the words of the writer already quoted, If books 



40 Mis. No. 98. 

could be arranged in order of relevancy, with respect say to natural 
science, from the one which is most essential to it down to the one which is 
least essential to it, there would be nO perceptible break anywhere, no point 
at which natural knowledge ends and other knowledge begins. "^ What,, 
then, must he who would devote himself to the enlargement of one de- 
partment of knowledge, wait' ere he commences till he has mastered all? 
By no meanS; such is not the inference. The legitimate conclusion from 
the argument is; that no thorough student in any one department of knowl- 
edge can safely say that he may not need 10,000, or even 50,000, books, 
and many of them of a character at first sight most remote from his path, 
not, indeed, for the purpose of reading or of studying tiiem, but in order to 
settle, by momentary references, questions which may arise, the settling 
of which may be of the greatest importance to his progress. 

If this be true with respect to those sciences where there is the least ap- 
parent want of books, much more is it so of those whose deductions are 
drawn from researches among the records of the past. The demands of 
the statesman, the jurist, the political economist, the historiau, cannot be 
met without furnishing the materials for the widest investigation, nor al- 
Avays, indeed, those of the novelist or the poet. I have sometimes heard it 
said that the knowledge of the middle ages to be gained hom oi]e of .the 
novels' of Sir Walter Scott is far more valuable tlian that to be acquired 
from the perusal of a library of dusty tomes. But who that has ever lived 
was a more constant deiver amidst the dusty lore of the past, in old 
libraries, among worm-eaten books, than the illustrious autiiorof these vol- 
umes. He could not otherwise have produced them. Without the large 
libraries we could not have had the enchanting romance. 

If it be asked, whether the libraries which we already possess are not 
sufficient to meet this demand, we reply, in the first place, that the large 
libraries of Europe, containing from 200,000 to 800,000 volumes, some of 
them selected with great care, have not been found large enough to meet 
the wants of her scholars, and we may not allow that our countrymen 
are less fond of learning, less thorough and profound in their investigations^ 
when they have the means of pursuing them, than tlieir transatlantic 
brethren. 

It may, however, jusdy be supposed diat the number of volumes is a 
very inadequate criterion of the value of a library; that a judicious selec- 
tion may do much to compensate for numerical inferiority, and,jConse- 
quently, that our libraries, although smaller, may be more useful to learn- 
ing than the larger collections of Euro])e. This may be sufficiently 
answered by applying another and the most satisfactory method of testing the 
real value of our libraries; which is to take some works of acknowledged 
learning and importance, and inquire what books were necessary for their 
composition, and how many of them our public libraries can furnish? 
This process, it will be seen, is a tedious one. I have, hovv'ever, pursued it 
in reference to a considerable number of books on a variety of subjects. 
Some of the results thus obtained may be stated in a few words, and they 
are fair specimens of all the others. 

In Mr. Wheaton's History of International Law — a production which 
reflects great credit upon American talent and scholarship, and which pro- 
cured for its lamented author the honor of 'election to the French Insti- 
tute — 139 works are referred to in the notes. A much larger number 
were, of course, consulted, many of which are mentioned in the body ol 
the work. Thirty-nine among the most important and expensive of those 



Mis. No. 48. 41 

which are formally cited, are not to be found in the largest law libraries in 
the United States. More than one-half of the remainder are common 
books, to be found in any well selected general library of 5,000 volumes. 
This work was Avritten in Europe. It could not liave been written in this 
country from the materials contained in our public libraries. 

If we take a book of a diflerent kind, demanding for its composition a 
thorough knowledge of the history of one of the physical sciences, and, 
consequently, requiring the assistance of authorities less accessible and of 
less general importance, the result will be all the more striking. 

In the first volume of Hoefer's History of Chemistry, 251 works afe re- 
ferred to. Of these, about fifty are common books, to be found in almost 
any library of 5,000 volumes.' Of the remaining 191, 1 cannot find 75 in 
all our public libraries. 

The plan of our Institution contemplates the publication of a series of re- 
ports on the condition and progress of various branches of knowledge, pre- 
pared by collaborators who are to be furnished with all the journals, domestic 
and foreign, necessary to aid them in their labors. Such reports, if properly 
prepared, will be very useful. We need merely refer, for illustration, to 
those published by the Swedish Academy. But the preparation of them 
will require the purchase of a great number of books which are not at 
present to be found in our public libraries. This will be made manifest 
by a few facts. Of 38 publications, mostly periodical, referred to in a late 
report of Berzelius on the progress of chemistry, I can find but 13 in our 
public libraries. 

Mr. J. R. Bartlett informs me that of 204 works which he refers (o in 
his report on the progress of ethnology, 129 are not to be found in the 
public libraries of New York, nor in any others probably in the United 
States. The cost of the books which, in order to prepare his work, he 
had to procure at his own expense, was ^1,000. And yet this report is 
only a pamphlet of 151 pages. 

From these facts it is manifest that there is no exaggeration in the 
language of one of the members of our Board of Regents, from South 
Carolina, who, in a report to the Senate in 1836, stated that " our 
whole body of literature, if collected in one place, would not aflbrd 
the means of investigating one point of science or literature through all, or 
even a considerable portion of what has been written on it." Here, he 
adds, " where the foundations of government repose on the aggregate in- 
teUigence of the citizens, the assistance afforded by public insiitutions to 
the exertions of intellect is but one-tenth of that whhin the reach of the 
mind of civilized Europe." 

The complaints of our scholars testify to our deficiency. Their 
wants have weighed heavily upon them. They have repressed genius. 
They may have condemned to oblivion names tliat would have rivalled 
the brightest in the history of science and letters. 1 miglit mention, 
it is true, Americans who have ranked among the most learned of the 
Avorld. But they, like others less renowned, have had sorrowful ex- 
perience of the deficiency of which we complain. They, however, in 
most instances, have, from their own private wealth, supplied the de- 
fects of public provisions. Had they been poor they would not gene- 
rally have been the authors tliey were. They could not have had access 
to the necessary books, had they not possessed the wealth for buying 
them, or for crossing the Atlantic to consult them where they were already 



42 Mis. No. 48. 

< 

accumulated. The pages of our literary journals, the eloquent speeches 
elicited in Congress by the bills to establish the Smithsonian Institution, 
and the united voices of the friends of good letters throughout the land 
bear sad and unvarying testimony to our deficiencies. 

Now, to supply these wants, or, in other words, to place American 
students on a tooting with those of the most favored country of Europe, is 
the design of the Smithsonian Library. 

We have, as yet, been able to make no purchases, except of those books 
which were of immediate and indispensable importance to the officers of 
the Institution, including the Building Committee. It is profoundly to be 
regretted that we were not in a position to avail ourselves of the extraor- 
dinary opportunities for the purchase of books which have been offered in 
Europe during the last eight months. In May or June last, or even later, 
in September and October, more valuable books could have been purchased, 
it is said, for five thousand dollars than at ordinary times for fifty thousand. 
I felt it my duty to lay before the committee, last summer, the facts which 
I had collected on this subject, and to express the earnest hope that we 
might be able to profit by the juncture; but the financial arrangemeius of 
the Board entered into for the purpose of completing the building prevented 
any immediate appropriation for this purpose. It is gratifying to know, 
that although this profiting must be lost to us in particular, our country 
will share in it, through tlie exertions of the gentleman to whom — most 
fortunately for American scholarship — has been entrusted the task of select- 
ing and purchasing a large library for our chief city. 

I should deem it hardly necessary at this time to allude to an idle story 
which was cii'culated about a 57^ear ago, to the purport that the Institution 
had expended $2,500 for the purchase of an old Bible, valuable principally 
as a typographical curiosity, were it not that many of our citizens arc not to 
this day disabused respecting it, and really si'ij)pose that we committed the 
folly thus imputed to us. No such purchase has been made or contem- 
plated. On the contrary, I believe that all the officers of the Institution 
are decidedly opposed to any such expenditure of the fund. We wish 
books for use and not for the gratification of mere curiosity. 

By a decision of the Regents, the income of the institution, which, after 
the completion of the building, will amount, it is hoped, to nearly $'40,000 
per annum, will be permanently divided between two great methods of 
increasing and diffusing knowledge which had been proposed and dis- 
cussed; the one by publications and original research, the other by collec- 
tions in literature, science, and art. The share of money which, in ac- 
cordance witli this arrangement, will fall to the library, will not be suffici- 
cient to enable it to meet at once the demands of our expectant scholars. 
It will be many years before their wishes can be fully gratified; but in the 
meantime, by a wise expenditure of the funds, and by other assistance 
which our arrangements provide for, it is hoped that the library will be 
such as to afford great aid to learning. 

The plan of collecting the library is as follows : 

1. To purchase such books as may be needed by the various officers of 
the institution, and by persons preparing memoirs and reports for our 
publications, or engaged in researclies under the direction of the Secretary. 

2. To procure such works as may be required to render the institution 
a centre of bibliographical reference. 

3. To procure a complete collection of the memoirs and transactions of 
learned societies throughout the world, and an entire series of the most 



Mis. No. 48. 43 

important, scientific, and literary periodicals. The continuation of these 
may be obtamed hi exchange for our own pubUcations. 

4. The remaining funds of this department will be devoted to the pur- 
chase of books of general importance; at first, most especially those which 
are not to be found in other libraries of the country. 

In pursuance of this plan, I have been occupied in making lists of books 
to be purchased. 

With reference to the first class of books, namely: those needed by the 
authors and collaborators, it is, of course, impossible to do any thing more 
than to meet wants as they arise. 

Of the second class of books, viz : those necessary to make the institu- 
tion a centre of bibliographical knowledge, I have the honor herewith to 
present a list selected with great care and the best counsel which I could 
command. This list contains about 3,000 volumes. The \vork of Namur, 
published in 1S37, purporting to be a complete catalogue of bibliographical 
works, contains 10,230 titles. A complete bibliographical library would 
contain nearly 20,000 volumes. The 3,000 volumes of the lisr, now pre- 
sented, are not therefore to be considered as constituting a complete cata- 
logue of books in this department, but merely as a selection of those most 
immediately important. 

Every list of this kind should include not only works professedly biblio- 
graphical, but also histories of literature, of science, and of' art, as well as 
many biographical and critical works. 

It is impossible to estimate too highly tlie value of such a collection. 
In a large library these works are the guides to research, showing what to 
read, study, or consult. In the absence of such a library, they sitpply to 
some extent the deficiency by describing books in such a way as often- 
times to enable us to dispense with the books themselves.* 

And yet the importance of bibliographical studies is in this country but 

* " In literature and science boolcs are the tools, and it is impossible to under-estimate the 
use of a critical acquaintance with them except to those who underrate knowledge itseif. Of 
every branch of the two great suljdivisions of human learning, (viz: literature and science,) its 
history is a constituent part, absolutely necessary to all who would be competent to form just 
opinions on its present state. 

"The scientific societies are not very anxious to have in their libraries the rare bodks belong- 
ing to tlieir several depanments. For this, one reason is want of funds ; but this might be 
overcome if it were not for another, namely, a general indifference among the members to exact 
and minute knowledge of the history of science. The peu nous Importe au restt with which De- 
lambre often dismisses a secondary paint, of which a satisfactory settlement does not come 
readily to hand, had been readily agreed to by his critics and his readers. The consequence is, 
that any one who proceeds to examine closely the actual records of the progress of science, finds 
confusion upon confusion and mistake upon mistake in all matters which are not of general in- 
terest. 

" It is worthy of note how completely several of the best histories of branches of science are 
on a bibliografihical basis, proceedinj rather from book to book than from man to man. Such 
are those of VVeidler, Delanibre, and Kastner, for though the nominal arrangement of the first is 
by men in order of time, yet the men are only constituent parts of their own title pages. 

" In literary history books are the main facts, and none but those who have tried it can tell 
how many difficulties are thrown in the way of an investigator who has truth for his olject and 
permanent rules of evidence for his guide, by the misstatements which exist upon works which, 
however necessary it may be to know them, it may hardly be worth while to name. The date, 
the author's christian name, the very size of a book may l^e the turning points of the proof of a 
fact. The inquirer cannot have all t!ie books before him, of many he wanis only the proper 
description, and being certain of this, he could almost dispense with any knowledge of the 
contents. , , 

" But let the reader th'mk what he pleases, the hist^ri m of science knows that he cannot do 
well without complete and conect bibliography."— Dui)/in Rtvinc, SepUmber, 1846, .2r<. 1, on 
Malhemalical Bibliograiihy. 



44 Mis. No. 48. 

too little appreciated. In truth, the neglect of them is the most fruitful 
source of superficial, conceited, and rash authorship. On the continent of 
Europe, however, they are held in the highest esteem. This is doubtless 
one principal cause of the acknowledged superiority of the Germans in all 
matters requiring wide researcii. 

f Every student worthy of the name, when about to investigate a subject, 
•wishes to know first what has been done by others in the same field. 

Now, on almost every important branch of learning some diligent 
scholar has collected from the whole domain of literature the books per- 
taining thereto, arranged them for convenience of reference, analyzed their 
contents, and described their absolute and relative merit, with their external 
peculiarities and history. He has thus given a hibUography of that branch 
of knowledge. Such a work should manifestly be the first to be taken 
up, and among the last to be laid down by any one who would intelligently 
study that subject. A collection of such works, pertaining to all depart- 
ments of knowledge, ought to be the first purchase for every general 
library. 

Yet there is no respectable collection of them in any of our public libra- 
ries. The best is, I believe, that of Brown University, which contains 
but a few hundred volumes. Without question, theretbre, by procuring 
the book's necessary for carrying out the plan of making the library a 
centre of bibliographical reference, we shall furnish one class of books most 
immediately important to American scholars, as well as one most needed 
in making judicious selections for the future, and in aiding other libraries 
in the country in their-choice of books. 

The selection here offered is intended to cover nearly the whole ground 
of bibliography, and is arranged under the following divisions: 

1. BiBLioTHECAE BiBLiOGRAPHicAE, or Catalogues of bibHographical 
works. 

2. Elementary bibliography, including treatises of the origin and 
progress of writing; of ancient manuscripts, their materials, form, orna- 
ments, preservation, and the method of deciphering them; of printing, its 
history, and practice; of the arts of engraving, binding, paper-making, 
&c.; of the forms of books; of the rights of authors, publishers, and 
readers; of the book trade; of the use and abuse of books; of libraries, 
their history, statistics, selection, arrangement, preservation and use. 

3. Practical bibliography. Works designed to be used in the selec- 
tion and purchase of books. These may be — 

(1.) Universal, comprising books in all languages, on all subjects, and 

of all periods. 
(2.) Limited — 

a To particular countries or languages. 
b To particular periods of time. 
c To particular branches of knowledge. 

d To works classed according to some accidental peculiarity, as 

rare, anonymous, pseudonymous, polyonomous works, books 

privately printed, books prohibited, books condemned to be 

burned, &c. 

e To particular kinds of composition, as poetry, proverbs, &c. 

Under most of these heads are comprised works of several kinds, viz: 1. 

The history of the subject; 2. The bibliography, properly so called, i. e. 

the catalogue raisonne of all books relating to it; 3. The biography of its 



Mis. No. 48. * * 45 

cnltivators; 4. The journals which contain tl.e record of its progress. 
Thus, in the department of natural history, would be included Ciu-icr's 
History of the Natural Sciences^ Engelmann's Bibliography of Natural 
History, Callisen's Biographical Dictionary of Naturalists, and the Annals 
of the Natural Sciences; and inasmuch as neither of these is pcifect of its 
kind, there must be many others of each description. 

With regard to the third class of books, viz: the memoirs and transac- 
tions of learned societies, I have made, and herewith present a list which 
I believe to be nearly complete, of all the publications of learned societies 
in actual operation throughout the world. Doubtless these publications 
possess various grades of merit-. But it is difficult, and I think undesira- 
ble, to reject any of them. Papers of the greatest importance are some- 
times published in the. transactions of the most obscure provincial acade- 
mies. 

The Department of Public Instruction of the French government pub- 
lished in the year 1847 the first volume of a work intended to be continued 
annually, entitled " Annuaire dcs Societds Savantes dc la Prance ct de 
I'Etranger." The volume for the first year, an octavo of more than 1 ,0U0 
pages, contains historical sketches of all the learned societies in France, 
the regulations of the institutions, an account of their various publications, 
and other works, and the names of their members. A similar account of 
the academies of other countries was promised for the second year, but 
I cannot learn that it has yet appeared. The labor upon it was probably 
interrupted by the revolution of February, and has not yet been resumed. 

The lists which I now present are made from the Rev. Dr. Hume's 
"Learned Societies and Printing Clubs of the United Kingdom" for Great 
Britain, the '' Annuaire" for France, and from various other sources, prin- 
cipally from the first volume of the catalogue of the printed books in the 
British Museum for other countries. 

The remaining duty assigned me was the systematic arrangement for 
purposes of comparison of the printed catalogues of the principal libraries 
in the United States. This, also, is a part of the plan for rendering the In- 
stitution a centre of bibliographical knowledge. 

I have commenced the v/ork in the following manner: Taking the 
printed catalogue of the library of Harvard University, I separate the tides 
and paste each one upon a card about six inches long by four wide. This 
size of card was selected in order to allow room for long tides widi the 
annotations which may be necessary. The letters " H. U." are to be 
stamped upon the card to denote that the book belongs to Harvard Uni- 
versity. When the tides of the Harvard catalogue are finished it is pro- 
posed to begin upon the catalogue of the Philadelphia Library. When- 
ever the tides are the same it will be sufficient to stamp upon the card 
in addition to the letters '<H. U." the letters '' l\ L. C," thus deno- 
ting that the book belongs also to the Philadelphia Library Company. 
When new titles are found, they should be placed upon cards like the 
others. The catalogues of all the other libraries are to be treated in 
like manner. When the arrangement of the printed catalogues is com- 
pleted, it will be necessary to obtain manuscript continuations. 1 hese 
must be copied on the same kind of cards. It will then be easy to arrange 
the titles in alphabetical or other order, and to preserve them in such order, 
however frequent and numerous the accessions which may be made. 
It is hardly necessary to enlarge upon the great value of such a cata- 



46 ■ • Mi.-. No. 48. 

logue. From it we could readily ascertain what books there are in the 
various public libraries, and how well each department of learning is pro- 
vided for. We should thus be enabled to fill up our own library "vvitli a 
more intelligent reference to the actual wants of the country. 

Such a catalogue will also enable us to direct the student to the books 
which he may want, if they are to be found in any of our libraries. 

There will be also an incidental advantage gairjed by it of great impor- 
tance to the department of American history and bibliography. The in- 
stitution proposes to publish among its '' Contributions" a complete bibliog- 
raphy of the materials of American history prior to A. D. 1700. This 
will be one of the most valuable contributions ever ojTered to the facilities 
for studying the early history of our country. But it is only a connnence- 
ment. The books relating to and printed in America after 1700 are vastly 
more numerous and certainly of great importance. They relate to the 
period of our early struggles, to the achievement of our independence, to 
the formation and consolidation of our government. No proper biblio- 
grapliical survey of this wide fifld has ever yet been made. The books 
and pamphlets relating to it were published, the larger part, perhaps, in 
America, but many of them in Europe, and they arc now scattered far and 
wide. Some very valuable collections have been made of them, the best 
of which is due to the diligence, learning, and devotion of a distinguished 
gendeman of this city.* No collection, however, that Mas yet been made 
can be considered complete. Still we may safely say that a large propor- 
tion of the books extant relating to this period are to be found among the 
libraries of the United States. One great difficulty heretofore encountered 
by oiu' bibliographers has been to ascertain where they are preserved. 
Many libraries have no printed catalogues; of others the catalogues are far 
in arrears. From our proposed general catalogue it will be easy to fmd 
every book of this description which is preserved in any of our collections, 
and to ascertain at a glance the place of its deposite. 

I have made, of course, but a commencement on this work. To bring it 
to completion will be the labor of more than another year. ^ 

In conclusion, I may add that the plans in operation for the library 
will, it is hoped, soon render it a valuable aid to American scholarship. 
Its sphere is c|uiet and unobtrusive, but none the less useful. Ere long it 
is destined, we hope, to rank among the largest, the best selected, and the 
most available literary treasure-houses of the world. Wherever such a 
collection is formed, be it in a large metropolis or a provincial town, thither 
students will resort. They will soon give tone and character to society 
around. Even in the great emporium of commerce, under the overshad- 
owing power of trade, its intluence would soon be recognized. Here, at 
the political centre of the nation, where assemble her statesmen and her 
orators, under a benignant sky, amid scenes consecrated in her history, a 
spot as accessible as any other from all parts of the country, is the most fa- 
vorable location fora great library. Such a library will attract hither our 
scholars, now pursuing their investigations in Europe, or mourning at 
home over i^oble projects abandoned before the necessity of so long and 

* I allude to the library of Colonel Peter Force. It contains more than 20,000 books, with 
large nunnbers of manuscripts, pamphlets, handbills, maps, &c., mostly relaiing to American 
history — an invaluable collection, one of the chief ornaments of our city, whure we trust it will 
ever remain. 



Mis. No. 48. 47 

expensive a pilgrimage. It will render Washington the centre of Ameri- 
can learning. Its influences will descend noiselessly upon the community 
around, and spread in ever- widening circles over the land, softening the 
asperities of party contentions, calnuug the strifes of self interest, elevating 
the intellect above the passions and ihc senses, cherishing all the higher 
and nobler principles of our being, and thus contributing more than ffcets 
and armies to true national dignity. 
Respectfully submitted. 

C. C. JEWETT. 

No. 2. 

The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents thciollowing 
report of the expenditures, state of the finances and condition of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

The vrhole amount of Smithson's property received into the treasury of 
the United States on the 1st Septcuiber, 1S3S, was .*^515,1(J9. The inter- 
est which had accrued on the same up to 1st July, ISIO, when, by the 
act of Congress, the funds were placed under the direction of the Board of 
Regents, was 6242,129. This sum, together M'itlr tlic accruing interest, 
the Board of Regents were authorized to expend in the erection of a build- 
ing and in defraying the current expenses of the institution. 

During the last two years and four months, in which the institution has 
been under tlie charge bf the Regents, there has been expended towards 
attendance of the Regents, and incidental and miscellaneous expenses, 
the erection of the building, improvement of grounds, salaries of officers, 
the sum of $10(3,520 19, as v/ill be seen in the following exhibits^ viz: 

Construction of buildings, including superintendence $51,678 4S 

Expenses of architect's office, traveling expenses, sta- 
tionery, draughtsman, &c. 
Laying corner stone 

Examination of quarries and specimen walls 
Improvement of grounds 
Publication of "Hints on Public Architecture' 
Occultations and researches 
Philosophical and chemical apparatus - 
Public lectures 

Publication of Contributions to Knowledge 
Library, and salary of librarian 
Pay of messenger 
Recording and copying for Board of Regents, 

Executive Committee, &.c. 
Do for Secretary . - - 

Incidental expenses - - • 

Do for Secretary, including office rent 

Expenses of Board of Regents and Committees 
Expenses of Secretary consequent upon the delivery of 
lectures at Princeton, and expenses to New York and 
Philadelphia on business of the Board - • ^^u,5U 



. 


1,213 GO 


. 


2i 00 


• 


74 GO 


. 


1,290 SS 


)? 


1,147 25 


. • 


525 00 


• « 


332 70 


« « 


SO 00 


. « 


3,709 34 


. 


1,741 3S 


- 


3S8 13 


<^;116 54 
' 232 00 


34S 54 


533 10 




177 65 


710 75 


s 


966 90 



48 Mis No. 48. 

[N. B. The proceecls of the lectures at Princeton^ 
$?1,000, have been paid by the Secretary.] 
House rent of Secretary for two years - - {kooQ 00 

Payments to Secretary on account of salarj?" - - 3,824 31 



Funds of the Institution. 

Amount of Smithson's bequest - - $515,169 00 

Interest due thereon to 1st July, 1846 - 242,129 00 



68,880 \1 
Disbursements as exhibited by previous reports * 37,670 02 



106,550 19 



During the same time, there has been received from in- 
terest and the sale of treasury notes, the sum of - ^115,964 60 
Prom the Secretary's lectures at Princeton - - 1,000 00 



116,964 60 



Leaving a balance on hand of - • ' " 10,444 41 



$757,298 00 



Balance on hand 1st January, 1849 - 10,444 21 

Treasury notes on hand - - 226,000 00 

Permanent fund ... - 515,169 00 

, 751,613 41 

If to this we add the premium of 8 per cent., which 

treasury notes now bear, say - - - 18,000 00 • 



The funds of the Institution will be - - - 773.613 21 



Thus showing, that after an expenditure of ,f 106,550 19, the cash on 
hand and the value of the cash investments, exceed the amount on hand, 
on the organization of the Institution, in September^ 1846, by nearly 
^16,000, subject, however, to a few outstanding accounts not yet present- 
ed, estimated at $7,500. 

The committee are confident that by continuing the system of finance 
recommended by the committee and adopted by the Board of Regents at 
their last annual session, the building can be completed and the institution 
be put into full operation at the end of three years from March next, \vith- 
out withdrawing more than $100,000 from the fund of $242, 169 set apart 
by Congress for buildings, &c., leaving the residue, $142,000, to be 
added to the amount of the original bequest of Smithson, and making the 
permanent fund of the Institution $657,000, yielding an annual income of 
$39,420, (which may thereafter be readily increased to $40,000 per an- 
num,) for the increase and diffusion of knowledge. 

During the past year the committee has held frequent meetings at the 
call of the Secretary, for consultation with that officer on the affairs of the 
Institution. The several operations mentioned in the Secretary's report 



Mis. No. 48. 49 

make compensation to the Assistant Secretary, acting as librar an for hfs 
services to the Building Committee, and relative "to the hbrarv have 
granted him the sum of $250. u uie norary, nave 

An extra edition of the Secretary's report for the year 1S47 was ordered 

l^lS^^i^cX^'' the Board of Wnts fro\n the fornTutdfy 

apparatus to the Institution; which committee afterwards reportena 
Dr Hai-e had unconditionally presented his apparatus to the Institution 
and that workmen had been employed to clean and pack the same fi 
removal to Washington. A complete set of the '' Annalcs de Chimie" 
was authorized to be purchased of Dr. Hare, to accompany his apparatus. 

1 he Secretary was authorized to order, conditionally, the instruments 
necessary to complete the outfits of Lieutenant Gillis of the navy, on his 
scientific expedition to Chile. ^' 

A number of propositions relative to publications, researches, &c , have 
been submitted to the Executive Committee, and have been referred to the 
Secretary and Dr. Bache. 

On consultation with the Secretary and Librarian, the committee re- 
commends the following appropriations for the operations of the Institu- 
tion during the year commencing on the 19th March next, viz: 

For publication of Contributions to Knowledge - . $3 000 00 

Scientific researches and computations - - . ^00 00 

Meteorological instruments and researches - . i OOO 00 

Expenses of public lectures, including lights - . ^500 00 

Publication of scientific reports - - . . sqq qq 

General catalogue of American libraries - - . l 000 00 
Purchase of bibliographical works and books of general 

reference 2,000 00 

Binding of books, blank books, stamps, certificates, (fcc. 250 00 
Purchase of books needed by authors of memoirs, re- 

^ ports, (fcc. - - - - . - 400 00 
General expenses, including salaries of officers, expenses 

of Board and committees, clerk hire, postage, (fcc. - 8,000 00 

17,350 00 



The aggregate of the above estimates exceeds, by the sum of .s2,350, 
the amount limited by the finance resolutions of the Board of Regents, 
December 1 , 1 847, as appUcable each year for the operation of the Insti- 
tution, exclusive of the building fund, until the year 1852, when the 
building is to be completed and the entire income of the Institution left 
free for the prosecution of the objects contemplated by the acts establish- 
ing the Institution; but as the present available funds exceed the amount 
anticipated when these resolutions were adopted, it ia believed that the 



50 Mis. No. 48. 

additional $2,350 may be spared in the ensuing year for the objects speci- 
fied, without trenching on the annual building fund, or endangering the 
accornphshment of the end had in view by the Board of Regents in adopt- 
ing the finance resolutions of December 1, 1S4T, namely, the saving of 
a certain sum to be added to the permanent fund. In conclusion, the 
committee would beg leave to submit to the .Board that the amount and 
variety of disbursements which the Executive Committee have to make, 
and the proper keeping and recording the accounts and appropriations of 
the Institution, require the services of a skillful accountant and book-keeper 
for the performance of this duty, as well as the examination of accounts 
for payment, the preparation of estimates on which to base requisitions, 
the preparation of statements of expenditures for the examination and ap- 
proval of the proper officers, as required by law, preliminary to their presenta- 
tion to the Treasury Department for settlement, and such other duties of 
accountant, book-keeper, and clerk, as the Board of Regents, the Exe- 
cutive, and Building Committees, and the Secretary may have occasion to 

require of him. . r u «; 

The committee therefore recommend the appointment ol such an otticer, 
at an annual salary not exceeding four hundred dollars. 
All of which is respectfully submitted, 

^ W. W. SEATON, 

J. A. PKARCE, 
A. D. BACHE. 
Washington, January 1 1849. 



No. 4. 



During the past year the Smithsonian building has been advanced in a 
manner satisfactory to the committee. ^ , 

An inexhaustible supply of freestone of excellent color and quality is 
afforded by the quarries; and the deliveries have met with no such inter- 
ruptions from failures in the canal as were experienced last year, to the 
ereat delay of work upon the building. 

The east wing of the building, and the adjacent connecting range, are 
so far completed that the architect promises a state of readiness for occupa- 
tion early in January. He reports the whole interior of this part to be 
finished, with the exception of the shelving of the cases— purposely de- 
layed to enable the Secretary of the Institution to adjust it to the apparatus 
which it is to receive. He reports, also, that the furnaces for supplying 
warm air to these rooms, and also the ventilating apparatus, will be com- 
pleted at the same time. 

The west wing and its connecting range are completed externally, and 
the interior of the hall of the gallery of art— intended to be used tempora- 
rily as a library— is well advanced. A portion of the book-cases are in 
progress, and will be placed in this apartment until the library-room proper, 
in the centre building, shall be ready for their reception. 

The foundations of the whole of the main building, including the 

towers, are laid, and the superstructure carried about five feet high. The 

campanile and octagonal towers, and two smaller corner towers of the centre, 

are 30 feet above their foundations. 

The architect also represents that the contractor, Mr. Cameron^ has cut 



Mis. No. 48. 5X 

jU the slone for the first story of the main building, and desi-ns, if po^cj. 

b!e, to have the whole of this part of the structure under roof before the 

waiter of lS49-'50, ni order the better »o protect the walls. 

The committee see no reason to doubt that the whole structure will he 

completed within the time specified in the contract, namciv, hv the 19th 

day of March, 1852. 

The total amoimt expended on the building and on the 
fencing of the lot, including superintendence, and all in- 
cidental expenses connected therewith, up to the 1st of 
December, IS47, was, as slated at that time - - $25,002 67 

The amount expended on the building and its appurtenances from the 
1st of December, 1847, to the 31st December, 1848, is as follows: 
Paid Mr. Cameron, contractor • - - . ^50 StK) 00 

Paid Mr, Renwick, architect's salary - - . l SOO 00 

Paid Mr. Renwick for travelling expenses - - - 330 94 

The expenses of architect's office, including furniture for 

and incidental expenses of the same, drawing instruments, 

stationery, and pay of draughtsman - - - 253 69 

Paid Mr. Robert Mills, assistant architect and superintendent, 

for part of the year ..... 390 73 

Paid Mr. Brown, superintendent, for three months • 187 50 

Paid for improvement of grounds .... 109 88 

Total .... $53,934 74 

The total exiienditure on the Smithsonian building from the beginning 
up to the 31st of December, 1848, may be thus stated : 
Paid Mr. Cameron, contractor for the building 
Paid Mr. Renwick, architect, as salary 
Paid Mr. Renwick for travelling expenses - 
The expenses of architect's otiice, including furniture for 

and incidental expenses of the same, stationery, drawing 

instruments, and pay of draughtsman 
Paid Mr. Mills, as assistant architect and superintendent 
Paid Mr. Brown, as superintendent, for three months 
For improvement of grounds .... 

For water-pipes and laying the same 

Making a total to the end of the year 1848, of - - 79,22 7 21 

At the last annual meeting (December, 1847,) it was resolved 
that there should be considered applicable to the building, 
(including preceding expenditures,) up to the 19th day of 
March, 1848, the sum of $42,000 00 

And for the year ending March 19, 1849, the further sum of 52,000 00 

Total * - - ' 94,000 00 

But, as shown above, the expenditures to the end of the 

year 1848, have been 79,227 21 

Leaving a balance applicable, of the building fund, between 

1st January and 19th March, 1849^ of - _- - 14,772 79 



71.700 00 

3,475 48 

629 78 


5S3 23 

1,'^47 84 
187 50 
743 38 

GGO 00 



52 Mis. No. 48. 

Judging from the progress already made, the committee are of opinion 
that the contractor will be able to finish the buildins, and all other matters 
comprised in his contract, for the stipulated amount} and that all expendi- 
tures connected with the building, including the laying out of the grounds, 
planting, sodding, fencing, road-making, heating, ventilating, &c., may 
be comprised within the limit of $j250,0U0, set by resolution of the board at 
the last meeting. 

During the past year the committee have entered into contract, amount- 
ing to §1,050, with Mr. John Douglass, of Washington, for enclosing the 
grounds of the Institution with a hedge, and for planting trees and shrub- 
bery. The architect having marked out the paths and roads, and indicated 
tlie positions of the trees and shrubs, these, comprising about 160 species^ 
principally American, have already, for the greater part, been planted, as 
well as the surrounding hedges, which are to consist of pyrocanthus, 
Osage orange, Cherokee rose, and hawthorn, respectively, on the four 
sides of the lot. Investigations and inquiries that have been made on this 
subject, satisfy the committee that this climate is favorable to the growth 
and maintenance of hedges, and that for a moderate expense a permanent 
and beautiful enclosure will be secured. The architect has been requested 
to prepare drawings and estimates of the gateways necessary to connect the 
building with the adjacent streets. 

Proposals have been obtained for putting up furnaces in the east wingj 
also, for sodding a portion of the ground immediately around the building, 
and for making permanent roads and paths from the streets to the building 
and through tlie grounds; but it is not contemplated to engage in these last- 
mentioned works at present. 

In relation to the work entitled ''Hints on Public Architecture," pre- 
pared by the late Chairman of the Building Committee, for publication by 
that committee under resolution of the Board, it is to be stated that the 
manuscript has been submitted, under vote of the committee, to the in- 
spection of Judge J. K. Kane, of Philadelphia, Governeur Kemble^ esq., 
of New York, and President Everett, of Cambridge Universi'y. From 
all of whom letters communicating their opinions of the work have been 
received, and are submitted with this report. 

Mr. Owen, in a late letter to one of the committee, states his intention to be 
in New York by the 20th December, to superintend the printing; the printer 
refiising without his supervision and arrangement of the illustrations, tfcc, 
to put it to press, and expresses his confident belief that it will issue by the 
10th of Februarj'- — certainly, before the adjournment of Congress. 

The architect of the Institution, who has drawn many of the illustrations, 
and superintends the engraving gratuitously, states that all the engravings 
are ready, or nearly so, and that the illustrations will amount to upwards of 
100, of which six will be lithographs and the remainder wood-cuts by 
tlie best engravers in the country. 

The wood-cuts generally do great credit to the engravers; a few of 
the principal ones have been brought on by the architect, and are herewith 
laid before the board. 

The expense of the engravings contrated for will be $2,000, of which 
$ has been paid up to 1st December;, 1S4S, the remainder being due 

the engravers. 

The vestry of Grace Church, in the city of New York, have presented 
to the committee a lithograph of that building; which will cost tlie vestry 



Mis. No. 48. 5a 

$100, The draughtsman, Mr. Wade, Messrs. Bobbett (fc Edmonds, en- 
gravers, and Mr. Putnam, the pubHsher, have presented a beautiful illus- 
trated title page which was designed by the architect of the building. 

As it may be satisfactory to the board to learn as much as can now be 
communicated in relation to such expenditures — not embraced in the con- 
tract with Mr. Cameron — as have been, or will be, necessary upon the build- 
ing and grounds; and which must fall within the building fund of 
$250,000 — the commitee proceed to add the following statement: 

Amount of Mr. Cameron's contract - - - ^205,250 

Remainder applicable to other objects connected with the 
building or grounds than those provided for in said con- 
tract .... ... 41,750 



250.000 



Amount applicable as above . - - - 44,750 

Portions of the expenditures now referred to, are either 
fixed and definite in their nature, or have been al- 
ready settled by resolution ; they are as follows: 

Architect's salary for five years ... 9,000 

Superintendent's salary for five years - - 5,000 

Incidental expenses allowed to architect - - • 2,000 

Facing area wall with cut stone, extra work, allowed 

by resolution ... - - 4S0 

Adding battlements to cloisters of east wing, extra 

work, allowed by resolution - - 200 

Additional cases for apparatus, ordered by Secretary - 200 

Contract for hedging, with Mr. Douglass - - 250 

Contract for planting trees and shrubs, with the same 
person ...--- 

Furnaces for warm air, registers, &c., already con- 
tracted for — say ----- 

1S,o.jO 



800 
600 



Which amount of $18,530, deducted from the above 

sum of $44,750, leaves applicable to other objects 

of the same nature, the sum of - - - 2b,4:-U 

Two or three other small expenditures may be set 

down as admitting specific and close estimate, viz: 
Two chimneys to east witig, being extra work already 

done, and which, in the opinion of the architect, 

should be allowed - - - * " ^^ 

Sodding ground near building, estimated at - - 100 



Deducting this total, viz 



500 



There still remains the sum of - - ■ - ^'il^JI— 

Some of the matters to which attention is addressed as having claims 
upon this sum, are: the addition of other battlements to cloisters; of a cleie 



54 Mis. No. 48. 

story to the mnseiim ; the substitution of flights of iron for wooden steps 
in the towers; other hot air furnaces; registers for ventilation; gateways 
into the grounds; additional trees and shrubs; making roads and patlis 
&.C., 6cc., &c. These objects, some indispensable, others more or less 
urgent, all conducive to utility, permanence, beauty, or convenience, will 
be decided on by the connnittee under the authority with which they con- 
sider themselves intrusted, and as occasion shall arise, only after mature 
deliberation on careful estimates in detail, and in a spirit of strict economy. 
The committee, above all things, intend to keep an earnest regard upon the 
pecuniary limits set to their operations, and to allow no transgression there- 
of, either by actual expenditure, or by engagements, or pledges. 

A few words remain to be added in explanation of the extra work and al- 
terations of plan alluded to in the preceding statements : as to which it is 
due to the architect to premise that these have not been caused by any 
omissions in the specifications of the contract. One item is for facing the 
areas with cutstone — the contract having provided a facing of good blue 
Potomac gneiss. The change was adopted because it was thought that a 
stone facing of the same material as the face of the superstructure would 
be more harmonious with, and conducive to, the general eifect ol the 
exterior of the structure. 

2. Battkinents of cUAsters. — After the cloisters of the east wing were 
completed, it became evident to the architect that from the comparatively 
low situation of the building, the roofs were too conspicuous, and should 
be concealed by an appropriate battlement. He therefore advised, and the 
committee sanctioned, the expenditure of $200 for the battlements of the 
eastern cloister. The committee has yet to act upon a like suggestion as 
to the western range. 

3. TiDo extra chitjinies in the east wing- were added by the building com- 
mittee after the plans were made, but before the contracts were signed. Mr. 
Cameron states that he was not aware of this addition, as it was niade af- 
ter he had completed his estimate ; and the architect is therefore of opinion 
that his claim of extra compensation is just and equitable. 

JOS. G. TOTTEN, 
W. W. SEATON, 
HENRY W. HILUARD. 
Washington, Dece)nber3l^ 1S4S. 



Mis. No. 48. 55 



APPENDIX A. 



PROSPECTUS. 



BIBLIOGRAPHIA AMERICANA 



A Bibliographical Arcount of the Sources of Early American History; 
comprising' a description of books relating to America^ printed prior to 
the year 1700, and of all books printed in America from 1543 to ITOO, 
together with notices of many of the more important unpublished manu- 
scripts. 

Prepared by Henry Stevens, and published under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution at 

Washington. 

PLAN OF THE WORK. 

1. It will contain a descriptive list of all books relating to America, 
and of all books printed in America, prior to the year 1700, which may be 
found in the principal public and private libraries of Europe and America, 
or which are described in other works; together with notices of many of 
the more important unpublished manuscripts. 

2 The descriptions will be made, as far as possible, from an examina- 
tion of the books themselves. If any be taken from other sources of in- 
formation they will be distinguished by some peculiar mark. 

4. The titles, including the imprint or colophon, will in all cases be 
given in full, word for word, and letter for letter. , 

4. The collation of each book will be given; that is, such a description 

as will indicate a perfect copy. . . i • u .i , Kot.^ 

5 The market value of the books, with the prices at which they have 
been sold at public sales, will, whenever possible be given. 

6 Different editions and various translations of the principal works will 
be diligently compared with each other, and their variations and relative 
merits pointid out especially of such works as the CoUections ot Voyages 
^nd Travels by DeBry, Hulsius, Ramusius, Hakluyt, Purchas, Thevenot 
e^c . the cor^^^^^^ P^'-^^ «f which will be compared, not only with 
elch other^but^vlth \hl editions of the works from which they were 

^^rBSiic^p^^'n^'wrn-be appended when deemed necessary^ 
coLnn'^ab' tracts of the contents of the works when the titles fa. o 

value of the works. , ^ , . . . -^ a mprici will comprise a full 
from the year 1543 to 1700. 



56 Mis. No. 48. 

9. Under the title of every work will be designated one or more libraries 
in which it may be found. 

10. The titles will be arranged alphabetically, under the names of the 
authors, or the leading word of the title. 

11. The work will contain a full introductory memoir upon the mate- 
rials of early American history, together with an account of the principal 
collections of them which have been made in Europe and America. 

12. Three indexes to the contents of the work will be given, viz: 1. A 
chronological index, in which the tides will be arranged according to the 
years in which the works were printed; 2. An index of the subjects 
treated in the books; 3. An alphabetical index of the persons and subjects 
mentioned in the notes and introductory memoir. 

PREPARATION OF THE WORK FOR THE PRESS. 

1. The expense of preparing the work for the press will be defrayed by 
subscription. 

2. It is estimated that the work will contain not less than five thousand 
titles, which are to be obtained from the public and private libraries of 
England, Ireland, Scodand, France, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Hol- 
land, Belgium, Spain, Italy, America, etc. It is obvious that if any 
single individual possessed the requisite knowledge of languages and bib- 
liography for this task, it would recjuire of him several years of unremitting 
toil. In order, therefore, to accomplish the labor within a reasonable 
period, it will be necessary to employ upon it several persons. These 
should be learned and responsible men. Such men cannot be employed 
unless their services be well requited. Besides this, the whole work must 
be superintended and revised by Mr. Stevens himself; who, for this pur- 
pose, will be subjected to heavy travelling and other expenses. It is esti- 
mated that the necessary expenses attending the preparation of the work 
for the press, to say nothing of Mr. Stevens's own time and services, will 
amount to $5,000 (or ^"1,000.) The work will not, therefore, be com- 
menced until this sum is subscribed. 

3. Any public institution or any individual possessing books of this 
class may join in the subscription on the following conditions, viz: 

(1.) That all the books of this class, belonging to each subscriber be 
submitted to the inspection of Mr. Stevens, and all reasonable 
facilities and assistance be afforded him in his work. 
^ (2.) That the name of the subscriber be indicated under the title of 
every book which he contribiUes, so that when the work is 
completed, it will show not only the treasures, but also the 
deficiencies in this department of the library of each subscri- 
ber, and enable him by marginal marks against the titles of 
books which he may subsequently procure, to preserve a per- 
petual record of his collection and of its deficiencies. 

(3.) That each subscriber be entitled to contribute not only the title 
of every book of this class which he may possess at the time 
of subscribing, but also of all other books of this class, vv^hich 
he may procure for his own library previously to January, 1850, 
or before the work .shall go to the press. 

(4.) That the sum subscribed by each be in proportion to the number 
of titles contributed, or be such as Mr. Stevens may accept. 



Mis. No. 48. 57 

(5.) That this sum be paid to Mr. Stevens on the acceptance of the 

fc ^ ^."^^""sjjript for pubhcation by the Smithsonian Institution. 

(b.j 1 hat each subscriber be entitled to receive from the Smithsonian 

Institution ten copies of the work for every S500 (or ^100) 

subscribed, and in the same proportion for a larger or smaller 

subscription. 

4. Inasmuch as the library of the British Museum contains a larger 
number of this class of books than any other library in the world, ancl at 
the same time affords extraordinary facilities for bibliographical research 
It IS- proposed to commence the work there. All the titles which this 
hbrary can furnish will be written out upon cards, made for the purpose 
measuring about eight inches by six. When these have been carefully 
revised and copied, they will, if it be desired, be sent in small parcels to 
each of the subscribers for their inspection and remarks. When the work 
is completed, so far as the library of the British Museum can furnish the 
materials, Mr. Stevens will himself visit each of the other libraries for which 
he shall have received subscriptions, comparing and revising the titles, and 
adding such other books as he may find, which had not been previously 
described. 

5. It is hoped that sufficient force can be advantageously employed upon 
the work, to prepare it for the press in eighteen months. 

Publication of the Work. 

When the manuscript of the work shall have been completed, according 
to the plan detailed above, it is to be delivered to the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, at Washington, who will, in accordance with the 
rules of the institution as published in the Pi-ogramme of Organization,' 
of December 8, 1847, submit it to a commission of competent judges. If 
this commission report favorably as to the faithful execution of the work, 
it is to be published and distributed at the sole expense of the Smithsonian 
Institution, constituting one or more volumes of the quarto series of Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, similar in form and style of execu- 
tion to the first volume, about to be published. It will be uniform with 
the quarto edition of the United States Exploring Expedition. 



Boston, July 7, 1848. 

Gentlemen: I beg leave to offer for your consideration the enclosed 
plan of a Bibliographia Americana, and to solicit for the enterprise the pa- 
tronage and encouragement of the Smithsonian Institution. 

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, your obedient and humble servant. 

HENRY STEYExXS. 
Prof Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the SmitJisonian Institution. 
Prof. Charles C. Jewett, 

Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution. 



58 Mis. No. 48. 

V 

Smithsonian Institution, 

Washingtmi, July 17, 1848. 

We highly approve of the foregoing plan of the Bibliographia Americana, 
submitted to us by Henry Stevens, esq., accompanying his note of July 7, 
1848, and certify that the work will be accepted foi publication in the 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, provided the execution is found 
satisfactory to a commission of competent judges, appointed by the Institu- 
tion for its examination. 

JOSEPH HENRY. 
CHARLES C. JEWETT. 



Letter addressed to several gentlemen. 

Smithsonian Institution, July 14, 1848. 

My dear sir: Mr. Henry Stevens has submitted to me, as Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, his proposition to prepare a bibliographical 
account of books relating to or printed in America prior to 1750, the de- 
tails of which he informs me have been submitted to you. I beg leave to 
request an expression of your opinion as to the importance of such a work, 
and whether it would be of sufficient interest to the student of American 
history to warrant its publication in the series of volumes forming the 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

My object in making this request is to satisfy myself as to the propriety 
of giving Mr. Stevens the necessary encouragement on the part of the In- 
stitution to coimnence the preparation of the work. In conformity with 
the rules adopted, it will not be accepted for publication by the Institution 
unless it be approved of as to character and execution by a commis- 
sion of competent judges. 

I remain respectfully and trulv, yours, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian histitution. 



Washington, July 15, 1848. 

Dear sir: You do me the honor in your note of yesterday's date to re 
quest my opinion respecting Mr. H. Stevens's plan of " a bibliographica 
account of books relating to, or printed in America prior to the year 1700." 

Mr. Stevens has, as you understand, been so kind as to acquaint me 
with the details of his plan. I take great interest in its success. Exe- 
cuted in the manner in which it will be by Mr. Stevens, the work will, I 
conceive, constitute a contribution to our literature, of great value, and 
richly deserve a place in the series of volumes proposed to be issued by 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

I have the honor to be, dear sir, with great respect and esteem, your 
obedient servant, 

JOHN G. PALFREY. 

Prof. J. Henry. 



Mis. No. 48. 59 

Washington, July 15, 1S4S. 
My dear sir: I have examined Mr. Stevens's plan for a Biblioeraphia 
Americana, and believe it to be an excellent one. * » • • 

As an evidence of my belief in the importance of the work and of Mr. 
Stevens's qnalifications for preparing it for the press, I may refer to the 
fact that I have subscribed two hundred and fifty dollars towards it upon 
the terms detailed in Mr. Stevens's prospectus. 
Yours, very truly, 

PETER FORCE. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of SinWisonian Institution. 



Cambridge, July 24, 1S4S. 

My dear sir: You ask my opinion of Mr. Stevens's plan of a biblio- 
graphical account of books relaliiig to America, and of those printed in 
America prior to 1700. Having examined his plan, and from the nature 
of my studies having attended much to this subject, I cannot hesitate to 
express the belief that such a work completely and faithfully executed, 
would be a most important acquisition to our historical literature. He 
proposes not only to give the titles of the books, but to inspect every work, 
and to add bibliographical remarks to such cfe require illustrations of this 
kind, and moreover to indicate the principal libraries in which they may 
be found. 

Many of these books are extremely rare, and are scattered in various 
libraries. I think it may be with safetj'' affirmed, that not a single work 
on the first settlement and early history of any one of the old States has 
been written with the use of all the books relating to the subject; first, be- 
cause in many cases, the authors did not know of the existence of the 
books; and secondly, because when they possessed this knowledge they 
had no means of ascertaining where the books could be found. Hence 
all the books relating to our early history, written in modern times, are 
more or less defective and erroneous, even where the authors have done 
their best to secure fullness and accuracy. It is easy to perceive what ad- 
vantage these writers would have derived, and the public through them, 
from a work like the one proposed. 

For use in libraries it will also be of great value, serving not only as a 
catalogue of all the books relating to America in any library, but likewise 
of all in which it is deficient, thereby enabling librarians to ascertain this 
deficiency at a single glance, and to supply it as occasions may arise. 

If 1 may judge from my own experience, the want of such a book is 
more extensively felt than may at first be imagined. During the last few 
yeyrs I have had innumerable applications from persons making historical 
researches in various parts of the country, requesting me to point out ma- 
terials and their sources. 

Mr. Stevens possesses uncommon facilities for executmg the task. He 
has been educated at one of our principal universities, and his employment 
in collecting and purchasing this class of books for the British Museum, 
and other libraries, has given him a practical knowledge essential to this 
undertaking, and which can scarcely be attained by any other individual, 
as the same combination of circumstances is not likely again to occur. 



60 Mis. No. 48. 

Tlie sale of the work must necessarily be limited, and can not possibly 
pay the cost of preparing it for the press, or of its publication, and I think 
I am not deceived in the impression, that few works in the literary class 
are more worthy of the patronage of the Smithsonian Institution, or more 
in accordance with its original design. 

I am, dear sir, with great respect and regard, very truly, yours, 

JARED SPARKS. 
Joseph He>7ry, LL.D., 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 



Sejvate U. S., August 4, 1S4S. 

Dear sir: Mr. Stevens's prospectus of his Bibliographia Americana 
has been submitted to the Joint Committee on the Library. They approve 
his plan, and thinking it worthy of such encouragement as they can give, 
have subscribed two hundred and fifty dollars, on the terms mentioned in 
the prospectus, it being also understood that for this sum he will catalogue 
such books on America, in the Library of Congress, as are within the 
period proposed by him. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

J. A. PEARCE. 



Antiquarian Hall, 
Worcester , September 23, 1S4S. 

Dear sir: I addressed 'a line to Mr. Stevens some weeks since, in- 
forming him that the council of the American Antiquarian Society would 
subscribe two hundred and fifty dollars towards the expense of preparing 
his Bibliographia Americana. Yesterday I received his acknowledge- 
ment, in which he expresses his satisfaction with the amount, and states 
that the work meets with every encouragement he could wish; , the sub- 
scription having nearly reached the sum of five thousand dollars. 

I presume this contribution by the council of the Antiquarian Society 
will be regarded as the best evidence of their estimate of the importan'^e of 
the proposed work, and of their confidence in the manner of its execution 
under the patronage and supervision of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Very respectfully and truly yours, 

SAML. F. HAVEN. 

Prof Jos. Henry. 



APPENDIX B. 

To the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen: The apparatus for the purpose of scientific illustration and 
investigation which I had been for many years accumulating while occu- 
pying the chair of chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania, on my 
retiring from that office was replaced by another apparatus belonging to my 



Mi.s. No. 48. 61 

successor. Under these circumstances, I signified my willingness to 
bestow mine on any institution for the promotion of science which would 
give it suitable apartments and cases, so as to have it kept in due order, 
and to render it available for the advancement of scientific kn(nvlt>dge. 

Subsequently, Professor Henry, the distinguished Secretary of the In- 
stitution over which you are the legitimate guardians, suggested to me 
that I should offer my apparatus to that Institution in tlie following com- 
plimentary language: " I hope you will conclude to present it to the Smith-L». ^^-v 
sonian Institution. Several of the articles belong to the history of llie ^'/^ 
science of our country, and would be interesting mementos of the/ past '■^ 

which should be preserved in sctme public institution." In reply, I wrote.^ • 
informing him that it would be agreeable to me to comply with his proposal,' ' 
it being understood that the cost of the removal of the apparatus and of ita 
being put in good order should be defrayed by -the Institution, so that 
while, on the one hand, I should receive nothing, on the other, I should not 
be at any expense; also, that suitable apartments and cases should be pro- 
vided for the keeping and using of the apparatus for the purpose of investi- 
gation and illustration. 

Having been subsequently advised that you were willing to do me the 
honor of accepting the apparatus on these terras, I put it at the disposal of ,y 
the Secretary, leaving it to his discretion to reject all that might not be . --^ 
considered of use to the Institution. I did not deem it proper that I should 
determine how far articles, which I had preserved under the idea of a con- 
tingent utility, might be worthy of the cost of transportation and of the 
space which 'they would occupy in the buildings of the Institution. I 
understand that Professor Henry gave to Mr. De Beust, for many years 
employed as my laboratory assistant, directions to pack up all that might, 
iu his opinion, be useful in the way of research or illustration. 

Agreeably to these directions, the apparatus was packed up last summer 
during my absence. I owe it to myself to state these circumstances, as it 
may happen that every body may not consider all the articles packed up 
by my assistant as meriting the honor done to them by their transfer to 
the halls of the Institution. 

I am, gentlemen, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

ROBT. HARE,. 

Washington, January 3, 184S. 



APPENDIX C. 

Extracts from Communications from Professor Guyot to the Stcretary of 

the Smithsonian Institution. 

There is no man of science who does not deplore the want of uniformity 
in the scales of scientific instruments adopted by different cin izod 
nations The comparisons between the observations, made m ditlcrent 
iuntri^s-comparisins indispensable in establishing the general resu s to 
which meteorology aspires-are at present ^'^JPOf ^^l^^^'^^-^^^T^^^^y " Xk -^ 
reductions, which are a source of errors in calculation, (against which us 
diS to guard,) and which impose heavy labor and a considerable oss 
of time! It is therefore very desirable, for the interest of meteorology, that 
a uniform system of annotation should be established. 



()2 Mis. No. 48. 

Of the three systems now in use for thermometric and barometric scales, 
(the Reaumur and the French inch, the Fahrenheit and the English inch, 
and the centigrade with the niinimetre,) that to which preference is gene-* 
rally given on the continent of Europe, is the centigrade and the metric 
system. Germany is gradually abandoning the Reaumur division and the 
French inch for the centigrade and the millimetre. In some of its most 
important scientific works, as the Meteorology of Kaemtz, several memoirs 
of Dove, the Physical Atlas of Berghaus, and the accompanying text the 
latter have been adopted. By degrees, Italy is doing the same, and we 
shall soon have for choice only the Falyenheit and the Englisli inch on 
one hand, and the centigrade and the millimetre'on the other. 

But to wliich of these two systems ought we to give tire preference? I 
do not hesitate to say, to the second. It is the most rational and the most 
convenient, it is that which has the greatest chance of uniting all suffrages 
and of becoming universal. But it is reserved to America to settle this 
question. Her weight in the balance will be decisive. If, renouncing the 
system she has inherited from England, she adopts the centigrade and me- 
tric scales, the scientific world may hope soon to arrive at that uniformity 
in measures so desirable. England would not be able to hold out long 
alone. 

It would be worthy of the Smithsonian Institution, which owes its origin 
to a love of science transcending all spirit of nationality, to take here the 
initiative, which its position, so perfectly independent, permits. The 
adoption of these scales for the numerous instruments, which it intends to 
spread over the whole surface of the United States, together with the 
regular publication of observations under this form, will soon compel all 
observers to conform to it. I am not ignorant of the objections which 
might be urged against this measure, nor do I undervalue them. Never- 
theless, I believe that I should be able to meet them, and I would do so in 
advance, did I not fear to extend this communication beyond suitable lim- 
its. 

The co-operation of Professor Bache would be of very great importance. 
As superintendent of the coast survey, he has a number of publiqalions to 
make on the temperature of the sea at different depths, for example, and 
others, for which it would be useful to adopt the centigrade scale, or at 
least to place the centigrade opposite to the Falirenheit degrees. This scien- 
tific authority, joined to that of the Smithsonian Institution would, I doubt 
not, be sufficient to introduce gradually so desirable a reform. The mo- 
ment is critical — later, a change would be almost impossible. 

■^^ 4^ -l^ ^& -^ ^^ :^ ddfe ^K 

The importance which the subject of the change of scales seems to me to 
possess, and the exigency of the moment, induce me to offer some further 
considerations thereon, for which I crave your indulgence. 

Unif >rmity of notation in all scientific works is the essential and imme- 
diate result at which we should aim. We might, strictly speaking, admit 
any scale, provided it were universally adopted; but since, among the 
number of those which have been proposed, there are three which have 
divided the suffrages, it is from among these that we should select. Other 
things being equal, two reasons (as 1 have already remarked) it seems to 
me should determine our choice; the first is the relative perfection of the 
scale; the second is the probability of its adoption by all men of science. 

As to the first point, the centigrade scale has the advantage over the 



Mis. No. 48. 63 

two others of being in harmony with the decimal system, and offacilitatin"' 
calculations. It has tiie advantage over the Fahrenheit of poi:s(\ssint,'a imn- 
ral zero, a point of departure fixed by nature herseh", easy todeternHne,and 
which corresponds to a point of temperature so critical, that from' the 
moment of reaching it, meteorological phenomena are snddeidy and pro- 
foundly modified, vegetation ceases, and all nature assumes another as- 
pect. It is then highly proper that this temperature, which is a point of 
change marked by nature herself, be also the principal one on the ther- 
mometric scale. 

The English adduce, as one of the reasons Avhich causes diem to retain 
the Fahrenheit scale; the absence of negative quantities. This, it is true, is 
an advantage; for 1 admit that the mixing of negaiive and positive quan- 
tities is a source of error, and embarrasses the calculation. Hut this advau- 
tage, which is real, disappears the moment we wish to niake a uni- 
versal one of the Fahrenlieit scale, for in nearly half the countries of the 
earth, and particularly in North America, the Fahrenheit thermometer fur- 
nishes every year many negative quantities. It has been said further, that 
the Fahrenheit degree, measuring a smaller diflerence of temperature, allows 
of a more exact reading than the centigrade. i3ut it is only requisite 
to mark half degrees upon the centigrade scale in order to obtain, the 
tubes being equal, a still greater approximation, that is to say, accord- 
ing to the ordinary method of estimation of twentieths of degrees; which 
is much more than it is righttodemandof instruments destined for meteoro- 
logical observations, since various causes prevent, even with the best, that 
one could guarantee the temperature of the air within two or three tenths 
of a degree. 

But the strongest reasons for the adoption of the centigrade scale are, 
without contradiction, the predominance already secured to it in the greater 
part of the scientific world, the considerable amount of meterological 
labors in which it is employed, and the decided tendency contimially to ex- 
tend itself. America has not here to open a aew path, she has only to as- 
sociate herself with the movement which is carrying scientific Europe 
along with it. But I repeat, her influence wid be decisive, she holds in 
her hands the future, and if she well understands her part, here as in other 
domains, she should break with the past in its narrowness, and render 
herself cosmopolitan in the interest of general utility. 

What I have just said applies equally to the barometric scale. The met- 
rical scale is the most convenient; it is rational, easy to verify, invariable; 
it has also the future in its favor. 

There remain to be considered material difficulties which attend every 
change of system. I will take the liberty of calling your attention to the 
fact that they only concern other institutions. The Smithsonian Institu- 
tion is perfecdy free to take the course which may seem to it most in accord- 
ance With the interests of meteorology. It has, moreover, a right here to 
an influence proportioned to its expenditures in this department. If, lor ex- 
ample, it takes upon itself the gratuitous publication of the observations 
made 'in stations already existing, may it not in time claim to regulate also 
the form of these observations. 

Besides, the questionis not about changing at once the habits ot the 
people, put simply those of scientific observers, which is a very difierent 
afl'air The detailed publication of the observations will principally cnxulate 
in the scientific world tor which it is designed. But nodnng would pre- 



64 Mis. No. 48. 

vent the publication) for some time to come, of reports of general results - 
with tlie old scales opposite the new. 

I am, sir, your very obedient servant, 

A. GUYOTj 
Joseph HenrY; LL. D,, 

(Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 



31st Congress, [ SENATE. ] Misckllaxkou..., 

f 15^ !^ession. ^^ ipQ 



FOMTli ANNUAL REPORT 



or THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



op 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



TO 



THE SENATE AND HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES, 



SHOWIKG 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITl^.N OP THE INSTITUTIOIf 



DISKING THE YEuia 1S49. 



July 29, 1S50. 



Read. 



July 30, 1850. 
Ordered to be printed, and timt 5,000 additional copies be printed without the appendix, 500 of 

which are for the Smitlisonian Insliiution. 



WASHINGTON : 

I'RINTED BY THE ^^RINTERS TO TUB SENATE. 

1850. 



Smithsonian Institution', 

July 26, 1850. 

Sir: I have the honor herewith to transmit to yon the annual report of 
the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg leave to 
request that you will present the same to the Senate of the United States. 
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

Secretary S, L 
Hon. William R. King, 

President United iStatcs Senate. 



[120] 



OFFICERS, &c. OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



S^ACHARY Taylor, 

Ex officio Presiding Officer of the Institution. 

Millard Fillmore, 

Ex officio second Presiding Officer of the Listitution., • 

mid, by election, Chmicdlor of the same. 

Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of tfw. Institution, 

Charles C. Jewett, 

Assistant Secretary •, acting as Librarian. 

I^DWARD Foreman, 
Assistant. 

WiLLiABi W. Seaton,! 

Alex'r D. Bag he, > Executive Chnunittee. 

James A. Pearce, j 

Jefferson Davis, "^ 

Willi ABi W. Seaton, > Building Committ&s. 

Henry W. Hilliard, j 

James Renwick, Jr., Architect, 

Gilbert Cameron, CotUractor, 



[ 120] 



LIST OF REGENTS OF THE INSTITU HOIf.. 



Millard Fillmore, 

Vice President of the United States. 

Roger B. TA^-EY, 

Chief Justice of the United States. 

William W. Seaton, 

Maym' of the city of Washington. 

James A. Pearce, 

Member of the Senate of the United States^.^ 

Jefferson Davis, 

Member of the Senate of the United States, 

James M. Mason, 

Member of the Senate of the United States^. 

Henry W. Hillla.rd, 

Member of the House of Represerdatives. 

Graham N. Fitch, 

Member of the House of Representatives^ 

William F. Colcock, 

Member of the House of Represeiiiaiives^ 

RuFus Choate, 

Citizen of Massachusetts. 

Gideon Hawley, 

Citizen of New York, 

William C. Preston, 

Citizen of South Carolina. 

Richard Rush, 

Citizen of Pennsylvania. 

Alexander D. Bache, 

Mevnber of Nat. Inst., Washington. 

Joseph G. Totten, 

Member of Nat, Inst., Washington. 



; 



C 120 ] 



MEMBERS EX-OFFI€IO OP THE INSTITUTION. 



Zachary Tayt^or, 

Preside?it of the United States. 

MrLLARD Fillmore, 

Vice President of the United States* 

John M. Clayton, 

Secrelary of State. 

William M. Meredith, 

Secretary of the Treasury. 

■ClEORfiE W. Crawford, 

Secretary of War. 

William B. Preston, 

Secretary of the Navy. 

Jacob Collamer, 

Postmaster General. 

Eeverdy Johnson, 

Attorney General. 

^OGER B. Taney, 

Chief Justice of the United States. 

Thomas Ewbank, 

Commissioner of Patents. 

William W. Seaton, 

Mayor of the city of Washuigton. 



HONORARY MEMBERS. 
Robert Hare, 
*Albert Gallatin, 

•Dead. 



Benjamin Silliaian, 
Washington Irving. 



[120 



FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT 
or 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

OF 

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

SHOWING 

Tlie operations, expenditures, and co7iditio7i of the Institution up to Jan- 
uary 1, ISoU. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives: 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, IS46, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,^ 
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and con- 
dition of the institution, the folIoAving documents: 

First. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of tlie opera- 
tions of the institution during the year 1849, accompanied by a report 
from the Assistant Secretary, relative to the library, and by other docu- 
ments. 

Second. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting an account of 
the expenditures of the institution during the year, and of its financial 
condition on the first of January, 1850. 

Third. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made 
in 1849 in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice, and in the improve- 
ment of the grounds, with a statement of the expenditures whicli have 
thus far been made on the same. 

Fourth. Proceedings of the Board of Regents at their fourth annual 
session. 

Fifth. Proceedings of the first meeting of the estabhshment. 

Sixth. Appendix. 

From these documents it will be seen that the Smithsonian Institution 
has been gradually extending its sphere of usefulness in carrying out the 
plan of its organization. 

An accident which happened to one of the apartments of the buildings 
as will be seen from the proceedings of the board, has induced the Re- 
gents to change the original plan of finishing the interior, and to adopt in 
its stead a system of fireproofing, better adapted to security and perma- 
nence. This will be attended with an additional expense, which it is pro- 
posed to meet by an extension ot the time of completing the building. 

From the report of the Executive Committee it will be perceived that 
the funds of the institution are in a very favorable condition, and 
from the proceedings of the Regents that the Secretary has been di- 
rected to make application to Congress for permission to increase the prin- 
cipal of the Smithsonian fund, by adding thereto f laO^OUO of accraed 



7 [ 120 ] 

interest now on hand, and such other sums as mayliereafior come into 
the possession of the Regents, hy donation or otherwise, uutil the sums so 
added to the original bequest shall amount to ^200,0Ui). 

The presentation of this report to Congress has been delayed beyond 
the usual time, on account of the continued session of the board, render- 
ed necessai-v by the protracted investigations relative to the building. 
^ ^ MILLARD FILLMORE, 

Chancellor ^ ^'c. 
JOSEPH HEISRY, 

Secretanj. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian TnstitutioTi: 

Gevtlemex: In accordance with the resolution that the Secretary shall 
present at each annual meeting of the Board of Regents an account of 
the operations of the institution during the past year, I respectfully sub- 
mit the following: , , , , a .u 

A-reeably to tlie scheme of finance adopted by the board, the greater 
portion of all the income of the Smithsonian fund is at present devoted 
to the erection of the building; and until this is paid for, the money 
which can be appropriated to the active operations of the institution ^^ 11 
be comparatively small; not only small in proportion to the demands made 
upon it%ut small in reference to the results ^vIHch the public generally 
expect t to produce. It is believed , however, that a proper considerauon 
of The acts m-esented in the following report will warrant the conclusion, 
?h4t^ieinsthution, during the past year, has been gradually exiendmg 
lis spLrrof Sness, and sucLshdly bringing into operation the dit- 

fprpnt nar^s of its ulau of organization. 

I vm be retuected thaJ the several.propositions of the programmo 
were Adopted provisionally, aud it is gratifying to be ^We » =,.a te d J.t «• 
t)erience thus far has indicated no important changes. The general plan 
rascontimed to receive the approbation of the enlightened public bMh 
,^f thTcountrv and in Europe, aAd to increase general confidence in the 
power of the Cdtullon to 'confer important benefits ort our countiy and 

'*' irltnting the different operations of the institution, I shall adopt, 

■^'af Institurnttgiual researches, under the direction of competent 
P'sd" The publication of a series of reports, giving the present state and 
nrVlS-f 'a'Cy "afiTs'etifof objects of nature and art. 

5th. Lectures. 

Publication of Memoirs. 

Agreeably to the plan of the i->i">''-\' ;';-"„:r:;it\":e't"efdiry 

-i&;?^e\:;rs'brter'^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



[ 120 ] 8 

institutions. An aocor.nt of the first memoir was given in the last report. 
It relates to the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley, and occu- 
pies an entire volume. It has been presented, as far as opportunity would 
permit, to the principal literary and scientific societies of the worlds to all 
the colleges and larger libraries of this country, and has everywhere been 
received with much commendation. All the societies from which we 
have as yet heard, have declared their v/illingness to co operate with the 
institution, and to give us their publications in exchange, from which 
source our lihrary has already been enriched with valuable additions. 

It is to be regretted that our means would not permit us to distribute 
the first volume more liberally than we have done, and that the price put 
upn the copies offered for sale has placed them beyond the reach of 
many persons desirous of obtaining them. This arose from the fact that 
in order to remunerate the authors for the exoense and labor bestowed on 
the memoir, they were allowed to strike off from the types and plates of 
the institution an edition to be sold for their own benefit. To avoid risk 
of loss, the edition M-as a small one, and the price put at ten dollars. An 
occurrence of this kind will not happen again; for, although it would be 
desirable to pay authors for their contributions, yet it is now found that 
materials will be offered, free of all cost, more than sufficient to exhaust 
the portion of tiie income which can be devoted to publications'. 

In printing the future volumes it will be advisable to strike off an extra 
number of copies for sale on account of the institution, and to dispose of 
these for little more than the mere cost of press- work and paper. 

The second volume of Contributions is now in tiie press, and will con- 
sist of a number of memoirs which have been submitted to competent 
judges and found worthy of a place in the Sinithsonian publications. In 
tliis volume we have adopted the {)lan of printing each memoir with a 
separate title and paging. The object of this is to enable us to distribute 
extra copies of each memoir separately, and also to furnish the author 
with a number of copies regularly paged for his own use. It will also 
enable us to classify the memoirs according to subjects. 

The following is a brief account of the memoirs contained in «he sec- 
ond volume, so tar as they have been reported on by the commissioners 
to whom they have been submitted: 

1. A Memoir on the planet Neptune, by Sears C. Walker. — An abstract 
of this memoir has been published in the proceedings of the American 
Philosophical Society, and has received the approbation of the scientific 
world. It presents the several steps of the discovery of an orbit which 
has enabled Mr. Walker to compute the place of the new planet with 
as nmch precision as that of any of the planets which have been known 
from the earliest times.* StarUng from the observations of the motion 
of the planet during a period of about four months, Mr. Walker calcu- 
lated an empirical orbit which enabled him to trace its path among the 
stars of the celestial vault through its whole revolution of 1(36 years. He 
was thus enabled to carry its position backward until it fell among a cluster 
of stars accurately mapped by lialande towards the close of the last cen- 
tury, and, after a minute and critical investigation, he was h^d to conclude 

* [t is proper to slate th;U a part of the researches given in this memoir was made during the 
author's coMnexion with the National Ob^>'jrvatory, under the direction of Lieutenant JMaury, 
An arxount of these will probably .soon be published in the n.xt volume of the records of opera- 
UoJis of llus observaiory. 



f^ [ 120 ] 

that one of the stars observed by l.alande on the night of May 10, 1795, 
was the planet Neptune. This conchision was rendered ahuo^t certainty by 
the observation, made on the first clear night, that all the stars iu the cluster 
above mentioned were found in place, except the one previously fixed upon 
as the new planet. Some doubt was created, however, by noting that the 
missing star in Lalande's maps was marked as doubtful. In order to set- 
tle this difficulty, the original manuscript of the astronomer deposited in 
the observatory of Paris was referred to. It was then found that Lalande 
had twice observed the same star; and not finding the right ascension and 
declination each time the same, and not dreaming it was a planet, he 
selected one of the observations for publication, marking the position indi- 
cated doubtful. The planet had moved during the interval of observa- 
tion, and thus produced the discrepancy. By allowing for the movement 
during the time elapsed, the two observations precisely agree. There 
could, therefore, be no longer any doubt that this star, observed and 
mapped fifty years ago as a fixed star, was in reality the planet Neptune. 
Mr. Walker, availing himself of this discovery, had now a series of obser- 
vations embracing not a few months of the motion of the planet, but 
which carried it back fifty years. From these data he was enabled to 
deduce a pure elliptical orbit, or one which tlie body would describe were 
there no other planets in tlie system. This orbit has been investigated 
by anotlier of our countrymen in a series of profound and lieautiful re- 
searches, adding much to our knowledge both of Neptune and Uranus. I 
allude to the labors of Professor Peirce, of Cambridge. 

It is well known that the planet Neptune was discovered by mathe- 
matical deductions from the perturbations observed in Uranus, and ihat 
Leverrier and Adams, the independent authors of this discovery, not only 
pointed out the direction in which the unseen planet was to be found, but 
also, from a priori considerations, gave the chmensions, form, and position 
of the orbit it describes around the sun. The direction indicated was the 
true one, but the elements of the orbit were widely different from those 
subsequently found to belong to the actual orbit of the planet. Professor 
Peirce submitted the data used by Leverrier and Adams to a new and 
critical examination, and succeeded in discovering tlie cause of their error, 
and of verifying the conclusions of Mr. Walker. He afterwards proceeded 
to consider the inverse problem, viz: that of deducing the perturbations 
which Neptune ought to produce in the planet Uranus. His fiiud results 
gave a perfect explanation of all the anomalies in the motions of Uranus, 
and furnished the data, for the first time since its discovery in ITSl, for 
correct tables for determining its position in the heavens. Professor Peirce 
also investigated the action of all the other planets on Neptune, and his 
results enabled Mr. Walker, by applying them to his elliptical orbit, to coin- 
pare the actual with the calculated place of die planet. This led to a further 
correction of the elliptical orbit, and a more perfect table (f calculated 
places. In this way, by a series of profound and beautiful investigations, 
alternately combining the data of observation witli theoretical consider- 
ations, these two astronnmers have perfected our knowledge of the motion 
of the most distant planets of our system, and furnished the means of 
giving their past and future position through all time. Tl^ie details ol Mr. 
Peirce's paper have not yet been prepared for the press. Tiiey will prob- 
ably be given in due time to the world as a part of the Smithsonian Con 
tributions. 



[ 120 ] 10 

The investigations mentioned in the foregoing account have been at- 
tended with very laborious arithmetical calculations. A small appropria- 
tion has been made to defray, in part, the expense of these. Indeed, 
without the aid thus given, the discoveries we have related would 
scarcely have been made — at least at this time, and in our country. 

2. The next m.emoir is an account of the discovery of a comet by Miss 
Maria Mitchell, of Nantucket, with its approximate orbit, calculated by her- 
self. The honor of this discovery has been duly awarded to the author. A 
medal has been presented to her by the King of Denmark, and the comet 
itself is now known to astronomers in every part of tlie world by her 
name. From the peculiarities of the case, the Executive Committee re- 
commended that a small premium be presented to Miss Mitchell. 

3. The third memoir is 07i a new method of solving cubic equations, by 
Professor Strong, of Neio Brunswick, Neiv Jersey; a purely mathematical 
paper, which has been pronounced an interesting addition to that branch of 
science. 

4. The fourth memoir is a contribution to the physical geography of the 
United States. It presents a section, from actual surveys, of the descent 
of the bed of the Ohio river from its source, in the State of New York, to 
its mouth, on the Mississippi. By a series of observations and elaborate 
calculations, the author exhibits the amount of water which passed down 
the river during a period of eleven years prior to 1849. This, compared 
with the amount of rain which fell during the same time on the surface 
drained by the river, gives a series of interesting results in reference to 
evaporation. 

It also contains a proposition for improving the navigation of the Ohio, 
founded upon data given in the preceding part of the memoir. Whatever 
may be the result of the plan here proposed, this memoir has been recom- 
mended for publication as a valuable addition to the physical geography of 
the United Slates. The author is Charles Ellet, jr., the celebrated engi- 
neer of the wire bridges over the Niagara and Ohio rivers. Another me- 
moir is promised by the same author, which will be a continuation of the 
same subject. 

5. The fifth memoir is contributed by Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia, 
and is intended to elucidate the remarkable phenomenon exhibited at the 
great fire in the city of New York on the 19th of July, 1845, during which 
two hundred and thirty houses were destroyed, containing merchandise 
amounting in value to sixty-two millions of dollars. "A series of detona- 
tions, successively increasing in loudness, were followed by a final explo- 
sion which tore in pieces the building in which it took place, threw down 
several houses in its vicinity, and forced in the fronts of the houses on the 
opposite side of the street." These effects were attributed to gunpowder, 
though the owner of the building in which the explosion occurred declared 
that none of this article was present, but that the house contained a large 
quantity of nitre, in connexion with merchandise of a combustible nature. 

This memoir contains a series of investigations relative to the explosions 
which may be produced by heated nitre in connexion with carbonaceous 
matters. The author shows, by numerous experiments, that explosions of 
a violent kind can be produced by forcibly bringing into contact at a high 
temperature, nitre, and substances of an inflammable character, [t also con- 
tains several new experiments on the combustion of gunpowder under 
different circumstances. 



11 [1*^0] 

6. The sixth memoir is on the ancient monuments of the State nf Nno 
York, by E. G. &/uier, and may be regarded as a coniinuati(m of the me- 
moir by Squier and Davis on the ancient monuments of the Mississippi 
valley. The expense of the explorations which form the basis of lliis 
memoir was two hundred dollars, one half of which was defrayed by the 
members of the Historical Society of New York, and the remainder by 
this institution. 

7. Another memoir is by Professor Secchi, a young Italian of much inge- 
nuity and learning, a member of Georgetown College. It consists of a new 
mathematical investigation of the reciprocal action of two galvanic cur- 
rents on each other, and of the action of a current on the pole of a mag- 
net. It begins Avith the assumption that the force between the elements 
of the currents and the magnet is inversely as the square of the distance, 
and directly as the sine of the inclination, and then presents the mathe- 
matical inferences which legitimately flow from these data. The deduc- 
tions are of such a nature that the author has been able to verify them by 
means of well devised experiments, and the results accord as nearly with 
the deductions as the complex nature of the subject will admit. The in- 
vestigations involve the mathematical theory of the galvanometer, and the 
experiments furnish much interesting and useful information, aside from 
the principal object of the memoir, particularly on the comparative value 
of different kinds of batteries. 

8. The next paper is by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Harvard University, 
and is entitled T/ic Classification of Insects upon Embrynlogval Data. It 
gives an account of a series of new and interesting facts observed by the 
author relative to the metamorphosis of insects, which have an important 
bearing on general questions in zoology, and which will probably lead to 
the arrangement of these animals accoixling to a new system of classifica- 
tion, founded upon more definite principles than those heretofore adopted. 

9. The next is a memoir by Dr. R. W. Gibbes, onthe Moscyaurus^ and 
some 
our pi 

the Un.v^ .., i J — 1 - 1 1 

country. This is an interesting addition to paleontology, and lias re- 
ceived a favorable report frojn the connnission to whom it was referred. 

Researches. 
The programme of organization contemplates die establishment of re- 
searches, under the direction of suitable persons, the expense to be 
borne in whole or in part by the institution. In the last report it was 
mentioned that a telescope and other apparatus liaf\,^^een ordered lor 
Lieutenant Gilliss in his astronomical expedition to Uiih, and that, Avitn- 
out this assistance, the expedition would have been delayed a year. 1 am 
now, however, happy to state that the expense of these instruments has 
since been paid by an appropriation of Congress; and the "j;^ ' '^^^^ ^^^^ 
thus been the means of promoting the objects of the f^P^^^^''; " ;\ ;^^ 
any expenditure of its income. Certain improvemen s ^^ J\'^''^'J''^^^^ 




Hi 

GUI 



nitrunients, however, have been made since the departure ^[J^^^X 
^dhss whicii would much facilitate his observations, ^"f Z^' '^^'^ ''^ .Jj^ 
do much more with his small number of assistants, and t may bt Avell 
for the institution to furnish him with instruments of ^hf knia 

Under the head of researches it may also be mentioned that, duiing the 



[ 120 ] 12 

past year, we have caused to be computed, at the expense of the institu- 
tion, an ephemeris of Neplune, giving the position of the planet in the 
heavens from August 4, 1846, to February 4, 1848, and also in the last 
half years of 1848 and 1849. This ephemeris is based on the orbit of 
Neptune established by Mr. Walker and corrected by the perturbations of 
the planet Neptune by the action of Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, as de- 
duced from the mathematical investigations of Professor Peirce, of Har- 
vard University. 

We have distributed copies of this ephemeris to all persons known to 
us who are interested in practical astronomy, not only in this country but 
in Europe. It has been received with high commendation, and is found 
to give the actual phice of the planet in the heavens within the limits of a 
few tenths of a second of arc; indeed, the coincidence of the calculated 
and observed places 18*^^80 marked, tliat, were the actual planet of the 
heavens and that of the ephemeris to be considered as a double star, they 
would have so close a proximity that no telescope yet constructed could 
separate them. 

Occultations for 1850. 

A set of tables in continuation of those mentioned in the last and 
preceding report for facilitating the calculation of the appearance of oc- 
cultations of fixed stars by the m.oon during the year 1850 has been prepared 
by Mr. Dovvnes, of Philadelphia, and published by the institution. At 
the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for establishing a 
Nautical Almanac, which will furnish, among other aids to astronomical 
observation, sets of tables of the kind just mentioned. Lieut. Davis, of 
the United States navy, to whom the superintendence of this national 
work has been intrusted, recommended that the expense of tlie preparation 
of the tables for 1850 should be defrayed from the appropriation for the 
almanac; and this recommendation has been concurred in by the Secretary 
of the Navy. The institution has, therefore, been called upon merely to 
pay for the printing and distribution of the tables, and thus again en- 
abled, with a small outlay of its funds, to afford important facilities for 
tlie advance of science. 

Meteorology. 

Under the general head of researches we may also give an account of 
the progress made in establishing the system of meteorological observa- 
tions proposed in the preceding reports. Circulars describing the plan of 
opeiation were distributed to the several parts of the Union through mem- 
bers of Congress at the last session, and the results fully equalled our 
anticipations. From localities widely separated from each other, and dis- 
tributed over the greater portion of the Unite'! States, about one hundred 
and fifty monthly returns are now regularly received. To carry on this 
system efficiently, much labor is necessarily required in the way of cor- 
respondence; but it bids fair to furnish the institution with a wide field 
of usefulness in bringing it into communication with individuals v/ho, 
though secluded in position, arc desirous of improving themselv^cs, as 
well as of promoting general knowledge. The correspondence we have 



13 [120] 

thus established, and which we hope to extend, throngli the aid of the 
members of the present Congress, will enable us to acquire definite inform- 
ation on a variety of subjects besides those which relate to meteorology. 
We have already accumulated in this way a mass of curious and in- 
structive information relative to various subjects, which we hope, in the 
progress of the development of the plan of the institution, to digest and 
present to the public. 

We would mention in this connexion that two of our meteorological 
correspondents have proposed the collection of statistics of diseases, in- 
cluding the rise, progress, and decline of epidemics. This is a subject 
we would commend to the American Medical Association. The Smith- 
sonian Institution could assist in an enterprise of this kind l)y receiving 
the information which is attainable, and collating it, under the direction 
of a committee of gentlemen belonging to the medical profession. 

It will be recollected that our plan of meteorological observations em- 
braces three classes of observers — one to record the changes in the aspect 
of the sky, the direction of the wind, beginning and ending of rain, 
snow, &c.; another, in addition, to give an account of the changes of 
temperature indicated by the thermometer; and a third, furnished with a 
full set of instruments for recording the most important atmosplieric 
changes. The importance of the information which may be derived from 
a careful record of the weather without instruments can scarcely be 
realized by persons who have given but little attention to the subject. 
The place of origin, direction, velocity of motion of a storm, as well as 
the direction and velocity of the wind which composes it, whether gyra- 
tory or inward and upward, may all be determined by a sufficient amount 
of data of the kind we have mentioned. Also, a careful record of the 
observations of meteors seen by individuals fromditl'erent positions would 
furnish interesting data for determining the elevation and velocity of 
these mysterious visitors. 

There are other data which can only be obtained by the use ol accu- 
rate instruments: fortunately, however, a comparatively small number 
of observers are sufficient for'determining these. The instruments should 
be of the best possible construction , placed in important situations, observed 
at suitable times and with undeviating regularity by competent observers. 
Few persons are acquainted with the difficulty of procuring accurate me- 
teorological instruments. The ordinary thermometers for sale in he 
shops frequently differ several degrees from each other, particularly at the 
higher and the lower temperatures, and even the same therniometer is 
liable, for a time after its construction, to undergo a change in the size of 
the bulb, and thus to derange the accuracy of the scale An accura e 
bai-ometer is another instrument which cannot readily be obtained, unless 
at too great a price for the means of ordinary observers. The common 
weathefglasses^old under the name of barometers, ^1-"? Yhu7a"sL't in 
of use in indicating variations of atmospheric pressure, and thus assist n 
tnSrIng dlta for^deternnaing the progress of ^^^^^J^^^^^ 
cable to the precise and accurate observations ^^^^^^f^^ ^ ^^^^^^^^^^^ 
minute changes of atmospheric pressure, or of asceitaining the liei^Ut ol 

places above the level of the sea. , ascertain 

^ Considerable pains have been taken d^^g the Past >^7^^^^^^^^^^^ 
the best form of a barometer, which could be procured at a rea^onable 



[ 120 ] 14 • 

cost, and, after considerable inquiry and comparison of different instrti- 
ments, we have at length decided upon one, with an adjustable cistern 
and enclosed in a brass case, which may be transported to a distance, and 
will serve as well for a mountain barometer as for indicating meteorologi- 
cal changes. For the construction of these instruments, we have em- 
ployed Mr. James Green, formerly of Baltimore, now of New York; and 
in order that tlie instruments furnished bj^ him to ourselves, or sold to our 
observers, may be comparable with each other, we have procured a 
standard barometer from London, with which each instrument, previously 
numbered , is accurately compared , and the record carefully preserved . We 
have also decided upon the forms of rain and snow gauges and wind vanes, 
and have ordered a number of these to be constructed by Benjamin Pike 
ct Son, Broadway, New York. 

It is the policy of the institution to do as much with its funds as possi- 
ble, and to call in aid from every quarter whence it may be obtained. 
With reference to the system of meteorology, I am happy to inform the 
board that we have received assistance from a number of sources from 
which it could scarcely have been expected at the commencement of the 
scheme. The last Congress appropriated two thousand dollars for 
meteorology, to be expended under the direction of the Navy Depart- 
ment. It was understood that Professor Espy was to be engaged in the 
investigations to be made in accordance with this appropriation, and, in 
order that his labors might co operate with those of the institution, the 
late Secretary of the Navy directed him to apply to me for instructions. 
During the past year he has been engaged in directing observations and 
making preparation for a series of experiments having an important bear- 
ing on the explanation of meteorological phenomena. It is understood 
that the remainder of this appropriation, after paying the salary of Mr. 
Espy, will be expended in defraying incidental expenses, such as print- 
ing, engraving, &c. 

The Regents of the University of the State of New York, in 1S25, or- 
ganized a system of meteorology, which has continued ever since, and 
which has added many interesting facts to the stock of scientific knowl- 
edge. In order to extend the usefulness of this system, the Regents of 
the University have lately resolved to reorganize the whole, and to supply 
the observers with accurate and well-compared instruments. This work 
has been intrusted to Dr. T. Romeyn Beck and one of our Regents, 
Gideon Hawley, esq., both of Albany. They have adopted the same 
system and instruments as those of the Smithsonian Institution, and have 
agreed to co-operate fully with us in the observation of the general and 
particular phenomena of meteorology. A similar movement has been 
made in the legislature of Massachusetts for the establishment of a system 
of observations, and it is hoped that the other States of the Union will 
follow these examples. We are also happy to state that the medical depart- 
ment of the army, under the direction of Surgeon General Lawson, has 
signified its willingness to unite with us in the same system, and to fur- 
nish the new military posts with instruments constructed on the same 
plan, and compared with the Smithsonian standard. We hope, there- 
fore, within the coming year, that there will be established at least fifty 
stations in different parts of North America, furnished with accurate in- 
struments of this kind. 

During the past summer I visited Canada;, principally for the purpose 



15 [120] 

of examining the meteorological instruments and the motliod of using 
them employed at the observatory of Toronto. Capiuiii Lefroy, the di- 
rector of this institution, aflbrded me every facility t'-r acquiring the de- 
sired information. He also furnished me with a list of military posts in 
Canada at which observations may be made, and gave assurance of the 
hearty co-operation in our labors of the otficers attached to these posts. 
We have aUo a prospect of procuring permanent observations from Ber- 
muda, some of the West India islands, and from Central America. 

From all these statements it will be seen we are in a fair way of estab- 
lishing a general system of meteorology, extending over a great portion of 
North America, including many stations furnished with compared instru- 
ments referred to the same standard. When fully organized, it will con- 
stitute one of the most important systems ever instituted; but to bring 
it fully into operation will require a judicious expenditure of all the funds 
at our disposal for this purpose. At the last session of the board, ono 
thousand dollars were appropriated for meteorological purposes, the greater 
portion of wdiich has been expended for instruments, among which are 
those to serve as standards; an equal sum, at least, will be required for 
the next year. 

In connexion with the regular meteorological system, successful appli- 
cations have been made to the presidents of a number of telegraph lines 
to allow us, at a certain period of the day, the use of their wires for the 
transmission of meteorological intelligence. We propose to furnish the 
most important offices along the lines with sets of instruments, and to 
give the operators special instructions for the observation of particular 
phenomena. It is hoped by this means to obtain results not otherwise 
accessible. Instruments for this purpose are now in process of construc- 
tion, and as soon as they are completed the transmission of observations 

wnll commence. 

The establishment of the extended system of meteorology, which we 
have just described, is a work of time and labor— the correspondence alone 
being sufficient constantly to occupy the time of-one person, and the ad- 
justment of the several parts of the plan has required more tunc than my 
other engagements would permit me to devote to it. 

Magnetic Observations. 

A set of magnetic apparatus was ordered from London for the purpose of 
determining the lines of magnetic iiitensity, decimation, and mchnation. 
These are intrusted to Colonel Emory, of the bouiidary commission, and 
in his possession they will probably be made to do good service m the 
cause of science. As soon as the funds will admit of the appropriation, t 
would be advisable to purchase several sets ot instruments of the same kind, 
to be placed m the hands of the scientific explorers ot -"r new terrUo^^^^^^ 
and for determining the principal magnetic lines across the United fetates. 

Physical Geograj)hy. 

Another subject of much interest connected ^f ;,tl>« I^^;>'J^^^^^ |::°f7'^ 
of our country IS the collection of the statistics of a 1 '^^ ^^^^ 
plorations which have been made in various P^^^ ,f j' ^^^^^ ^'^^^f^ ,^dT 
and Canada. This information, at present m tiie possession ot inai 



[120] 1^ 

vidiials, is of little value, and, unless collected by some public institution, 
will soon be lost to the world. Surveys of this kind furnish the most ex- 
act data for the determination of what may be called tlie mountain bases, 
or general water sheds of the surface; and no portion of the world of tho 
same extent has been so thoroughly traversed v/ith these explorations as 
the United States. Connected with these, sketches should be made of 
the principal mountain ranges, barometrical measurements of the higher 
peaks, with geological sections of the strata through which the public 
works are carried. For tb.e purpose of commencing this collection, we 
have addressed letters to all persons within our knowledge who possess 
information of this kind, requesting memoirs from tliem containing results 
of their own measurements and observations. By this means we hope to 
present a series of papers of the same character as that of Mr. Ellet, and 
thus furnish materials for a more accurate physical map of North America, 
as well as the means, in connexion with our operations in meteorology, 
for a more exact study of our climate. 

During the past year Professor Guyot has made a barometrical explora- 
tion of the mountain system of New Hampshire, and he purposes to de- 
vote a portion of eacli year to investigations of this kind. 

Natural History. 

Our new possessions in Oregon, California,' and Mexico offer in- 
teresting fields for scientific inquiry, particularly in the line of natural 
history, and Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, and Dr. Engleman, of St. Louis, 
aided by several scientific gentlemen, interested in this branch of science, 
liave sent a number of collectors to derelop the resources of those regions, 
particularly so far as the botany is concerned. 

Among these, Mr. Charles Wright has been engaged to make explora- 
tions during the past year in New Mexico, at the expense of a subscription 
by individuals and institutions. He has just returned laden v/ith a valu- 
able collection of plants, seeds, &c., whicli ate to be divided among those 
who defrayed the expense. In behalf of the Smithsonian Institution $150 
was subscribed towards this enterprise, and for this we are entitled to a 
full set of all the objects collected. These are to be submitted to Dr. 
Gray, of Canjbridge, to be described in a memoir by him, and to be pub- 
lished in the Smitlisonian Contributions. Mr. Wright is expected to start 
.on another expedition early in the spring, for the purpose of making ex- 
plorations in natural history in the regions around El Paso, and it will be 
well for the SmJthsonian InstituUon to farther assist this laudable enter- 
prise with another subscription of an. equal amount. 

We have also purchased, for the sum of ;[, 20, a set of the plants collected 
by Mr. Fendler in the vicinity of Santa Fe, during the year 1847. This 
adventurous explorer, under the direction of the gentlemen previously 
mentioned, is now engaged in investigatirig the botany of the great valley 
of the Salt Lake; and it is proposed further to assist him by the purchase 
of a set of the collections he may obtain, i^j co-operating in this way with 
individuals and institutions, we are enabled; at a small expense, materially 
to advance the cause of science. 



17 [120] 

Ancient Monuments. 

Another object, the prosecution of which falls pnrii.nilaiiy within the 
province of the institution, is that of obtaining descriptions of tlie ancient 
monnments of North America. Circulars have been sent to gentlemen in 
various parts of the country, requesting thenito furnish surveys and explo- 
rations of mounds, and other ancient works, which are rejmt'cd to exist in 
their vicinity. To facilitate these investigations, we have requested 
the authors of the first volume to draw up, from the results of their ex- 
perience, a set of instructions for the proper examination and description 
of works of this kind. The same subject has also been placed before 
several historical societies, established in places where mounds are known 
to exist. In connexion with this subject, we cannot too highly commend 
the policy of the new Territory of Minnesota, Avhich, among the first of its 
acts, has established a Historical Society, to gather up the record of events 
as they occur, and thus to preserve the unappreciated facts of the present- 
destined to become history in the future. An important and interesting part 
of the labors of such societies would be the survey and exploration of 
the ancient monuments which migb.i bel<:>und in their vicinity. Brief ac- 
counts of these might be published in the proceedings of the societies, 
while detailed descriptions and drawings could be given to the world at 
the expense and through the transactions of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Tiie pubhcation of our first volume has awakened a lively interest in 
this subject, and we have received accounts of various locations of mounds 
and other ancient works in different parts of the country which were pre- 
viously unknown, A gentleman, well qualified for the task, is now engaged 
in preparing for us an ethnoloi^ical chart indicating the relative positions, as 
far'as they are known, of all the monuments of this kind. This chart may 
be improved from time to time, and will be the means of t'liciting important 
additional information. Indeed this whole subject should be prosecuted by 
the institution, until all accessible information has been collected. The 
Smithsonian Institution owes this to the wor'd. The work should be done 
quickly, for the plough, as well as the elements, are eveiy year rendering 
less visible the outlines and distinctive forms of tliese remnants of the arts 
and policy of the ancient inhabitants of this continent. 

Bibliographia Americnna. 

In the last report an account is given of the preparation of a work on 
the bibliography of America, by Henry Stevens, of Vermont. This work, 
it will be recollected, is to contain a brief account of every book published 
in, or relatinf' to. North America, prior to 1700, with references to the dif- 
ferent libraries in this and other countries, in which these works are to be 
found. The institution agreed to publish this work at its own expense, 
provided, on examination by a commissionof competent judges, it is found 
properly executed. Mr. Stevens is now engaged in the British Museum 
cataloguing all (he works embraced in his plan, and informs me that he 
is making good progress in his enterprise. 

Reports on the Progress of Knowledge. 

Of the reports on the progress of knowledge proposed in the plan cf 
organization, none have as yet been published, though several of those 

Mis.— 2 



[ 120 ] 18 

mentioned in my report of last year have been completed, or are very 
nearly ready for the press. The appropriations, however, for the last year 
were not found sufficient for carrying out further this part of the plan . 

The most important report now in progress is that on the forest trees ot 
North America, by Dr. Gray, Professor of Botany in Harvard University. 
It is intended in this work to give figures from original draAvings of the 
flowers, leaves, fruit, &c., of each principal species in the United .States 
proper for the most part of the size of nature, and so executed as to furnish 
colored or uncolored copies— the first being intended to give an adequate 
idea of the species, and the second for greater cheapness and more general 

diffusion. . • . ,i r 

This work will be completed in three parts, in octavo, with an atlas ol 
quarto plate— the first part to be published next spring. A portion of this 
will be occupied with an introductory dissertation giving the present state 
of our knowledge, divested as much as. possible of all unnecessary tech- 
nical terms— of the anatomy, morphology, and physiology of the tree- 
tracing its growth from the embryo to its full development and reproduc- 
tion in the formation of fruit and seed. This will be illustrated by draw- 
ings from original dissections under the microscope, and sketches made, 
in every instance, from Nature. As the work will be adapted to general 
comprehension, it will be of interest to the popular as well as the scientific 

Report on the history of the discovery of the planet Neptvne.— The first 
part of a report on recent discoveries in astronomy has been completed,, 
and is ready for the press. This is written by Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cam- 
bridge, editor of the American Astronomical Journal. Copious references 
to authorities are given in foot-notes, which will render the work interest- 
ing to the professed astronomer as well as to the less advanced student. 

A report has been prepared by Professor Guyot, late of the University 
of Neufchatel, on the construction and use of meteorological instruraentSj 
more particularly designed for distribution among our meteorological ob- 
servers. This gentleman is now engaged, at the expense of the Regents 
of the University of the State of New York, in establishing a new system 
of meteorology, and in instructing the observers in the use of the instru- 
ments; for which service he is well adapted by his experience in a similar 
undertaking in Switzerland. 

The report on the application of chemistry to agriculture is also nearly 
ready for the press. This is by Dr. Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers College. 
New Jersey. 

Collections. 

Apparatus. — The plan of organization also contemplates the formation 
of a museum of physical instruments, which may be used for experimen- 
tal illustration and original research, and may serve as models to_ work- 
men as well as to illustrate the general progress of inventions in this line. 

The munificent donation of Dr. Hare has enabled us to commence this 
collection with veiy flattering prospects. It now contains, besides the 
articles of Dr. Hare, instruments for the illustration of the principles of 
light, heat, and sound, procured fron^ Paris, and a full set of pneumatic 
instruments, of superior size and workmanship, constructed expressly tbr 
the institution by Mr. Chamberlain, of Boston j also, a number of chemi- 



19 [120] 

cal articles purchased during the last year; a set of magnetical inslru- 
ments, already noticed ; a standard barometer and thermometers, and other 
meteorological instruments, procured from Europe. It is proper that I 
mention, in this place, that we are indebted to Professor 8110II, of Am- 
herst, for superintending the construction of a set of ingenious instru- 
ments devised by himself for the illustration of wave motion. It is be- 
heved that the collection of instruments of research will, in due time, not 
only form a feature of great interest, but that it will surpass in extent 
similar collections in other countries. 

It is intended to publish a descriptive catalogue of all the instruments, 
for the use of visiters, and it may be advisable to illustrate this by wood- 
cuts, particularly as we have had presented to us all the wood engravings 
employed by Dr. Hare in describing his apparatus. 

It is not in accordance with the plan of organization to confine the in- 
struments of observation to the immediate use of the officers of the 
institution, but to suffer them to be employed, under certain restrictions, 
by others who are possessed of the requisite degree of skill. This prac- 
tice may be attended in some cases with loss, and the breakage of instru- 
ments, but the expenditure which may be incurred on this account will 
probably be more than compensated by the advance to knowledge result- 
ing from the adoption of the plan, 

A small appropriation has been made for collections in natural history 
during the past year; and, under the direction of a distinguished young 
naturalist, upwards of ten thousand specimens oi' vertebrated animals, 
principally reptiles and fishes, have been obtained. Many of these are 
rare specimens from unexplored parts of our country, and a considerable 
number of them consists of undescribed species. Tliey furnish the mate- 
rials for an interesting series of memoirs on physiology, embryology, and 
comparative anatomy. The whole cost of making this collection did not 
exceed i^l40. We are convinced, from the important results obtained by 
this small expenditure, that a most valuable working collection of objects 
of the natural history of North America can be obtained at a very moder- 
ate outlay of funds. 

Library. 

During the past year the process of developing the ])lan of the library, 
as given in the programme, has been carried out by Professor Jewett as 
far as the funds which could be devoted to the purpose would allow. 

Considerable progress has been made in the plan of forming a general 
catalogue of all the important libraries in the United States, and Professor 
Jewett has wisely commenced the preparation of a catalogue of all the 
books to be found in the ditferent libraries in the city of Washmgton, 
including those of the several departments of the government, and in 
this way he will be enabled to exhibit the importance of catalogues ot 

this kind. . 

He has also devoted much time to the continuation of his researches 
relative to the statistics of libraries in this country, and for an account in 
detail of his valuable labors in this line I must refer to his report here- 
with transmitted. I will also direct attention to some important suggest- 
ions in his report on the subject of the deposite of books for securing copy- 
right, and the establishment of a bulletin. 



[ 120 ] 20 

Museum, 

The formation of a museum of objects of nature and art requires much 
caution. V»^ith a given income to be appropriated to the purpose, a time 
must come when die cost of keeping the objects will just equal the amount 
of the appropriation; after this no further increase can take place. Also, 
the tendency of an institution of this kind, unless guarded against, will 
be to expend its funds on a heterogeneous collection of objects of mere 
curiosity; whereas the plan presented in the programme contemplates 
complete definite collections arranged for scientific purposes, rather than 
for popular display. For some suggestions on this point see page 24. 

In this connexion there is one point which I beg to present to the con- 
sideration of the board as one of much importance, and which, if possi- 
ble, should be decided at this meeting, because on it will depend the ar- 
rangement of that part of the building devoted to natural history. 1 al- 
lude to the acceptance of the museum of the exploring expedition. 

By the law incorporating this institution, ''all objects of art and of 
foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural histoiy, plants, 
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to or hereafter to 
belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Washington, in 
whosesoever custody tlie same may be, shall be delivered to such persons 
as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them." 

This law evidently gives to the Smithsonian Institution the museum 
in the Patent Office, the conservatory of plants, and all specimens of 
nature and art to be found in the several offices and departments of the 
government. The act, however, cannot be construed as rendering it 
obligatory on the Regents to take charge of these articles, if, in their opin- 
ion, it is not for the best interests of the institution that they should do 
so. Though one of the reasons urged upon the Regents for the imme- 
diate erection of so large a building was the necessity of providing accom- 
modation for this museum, I have been, from the first, of the opinion that 
it is inexpedient to accept it. 

This museum was collected at the expense of the government, and 
should be preserved as a memento of the science and energy of our navy, 
and as a means of illustrating and verifying the magnificent volumes 
Avhich comprise the history of that expedition. If the Regents accept 
this museum, it must be merged in the Smithsonian collections. It could 
not be the intention of Congress that an institution founded by the liber- 
ality of a foreigner, and to which he has affixed his own name, should 
be charged with the keeping of a separate museum, the property of the 
United States. Besides this, the extensive museum of the Patent Office 
would inmrediately fill the space allotted for collections of this kind in 
the Smithsonian edifice, and in a short time another appropriation Avould 
be required for the erection of another building. Moreover, all the objects 
of interest ol this collection have been described and figured in the vol- 
umes of the expedition, and the small portion of our funds wdiich can be 
devoted to a nuiseum may be better employed in collecting new objects, 
such as have not yet been studied, than in preserving those from which 
the harvest of discovery has already been fully gathered. 

The answer made to some of these objections has usually been, that 
the government would grant an annual appropriation for the support of 
the museum of the exploring expedition. But this would be equally ob- 



1 



21 [ 120 ] 

jectionable since it wonlcf annually bring the institution before Confess 
as a supplicant for government patronage, and ultimately subject u to 
pohticai influence and controL j j i n lu 

After an experience of three years, I am fully convinced that the true 
policy ot the institution is to ask nothing fi-om Congress except the safe- 
keeping of its funds; to mingle its operations as little as possi!,le with 
those of the general government, and to adhere in all cases to its own dis- 
tinct organization, while it co-operates with other institutions in the wav 
of promotirig knowledge; and on the other hand, that it is desirable that 
Congress should place as few restrictions on the institution as possible, 
consistent with a judicious expenditure of the income, and that this be 
judged of by a proper estimate of the results produced. 

Lectures. 

At the last meeting nf the board an appropriation of five hundred dol- 
lars v/as made to defray the expense of lectures to be given before the 
Smithsonian Institution, a part of which only is expended. The first 
•coui-se, in accordance with this part of the plan of organization, was by 
Professor Koeppen , of Denmark, on Modern Athens . These lectures were 
illustrated by a number of large drawings, for the use of which the in- 
stitution is indebted to the Lowell Inst-tute, of Boston. A second course 
was delivered by Dr. Hitchcock, President of Amherst College, on ge- 
ology, in the lecture-room of the east wing of the Smithsonian building; 
and both courses r%rere attended by large and apparently interested audi- 
ences. The results of these lectures indicate that much good may be 
effected in Washington by this means of communicating knowledge. No 
city, perhaps, of the same number of inhabitants, contains so many intel- 
ligent and well-educated persons desirous of obtaining information, and 
no point in our country is so favorably situated for tiie dissemination of 
opinions by means of lectures as the political centre of the American 
Union. Invitations have been given to a number of distinguished gen- 
tlemen in di'd'erent parts of the United States to favor us with courses of 
lectures during the present session of Congress, and in almost every case 
the invitation has been accepted. It is intended to extend these invita- 
tions so as to call here in succession all who have distinguished them- 
selves in literature or science. We shall not seek mere popular lecturers, 
whose chief recommendation is fluency of speech or powers of rhetorical 
declamation, but chiefly those who are entitled, from their standing and 
acquirements, to speak with authority on the subjects of their discourse, 
and whose character will tend to give due importance to their communi- 
cations. It is to be regretted that the amount of funds which can be 
devoted to this object is not as great as could be wished. It is hoped, how- 
ever, that many persons will consider the opportuiiity oi' visiting Wash- 
ington, and the compliment paid by the invitation, as in part a remunera- 
tion for the labor and time which their lectures may cost. But in all cases 
sufficient should be allowed to defray all necessary expenses, and, as soon 
as the state of the funds v/ill permit, "to reward liberally, rather than other- 
wise, those v/ho are called to assist t!ie institution in this way. I forbear 
to publish the names of those who have consented to lecture, lest they 
should be accidentally prevented from filling their engagement, and the 
public thus be disappointed. 



[ 120 ] 22 

To facilitate the approach to the building at the time of these lectures^ 
the walks were temporarily improved, at a considerable expense to the in- 
stitution. It is hoped that the authorities of the city of VV^ashington will 
cause bridges to be erected across the canal, and walks to be constructed 
through the public grounds, to facilitate the approach to the building, and 
that the institution Avill not be expected to provide accommodations of this 
kind. 

Buildwcr. 

The east wing of the building was taken possession of by the Secretary 
in April last, and has since been constantly occupied. The west wing is 
now finished, and it is contemplated to occupy it temporarily as a library 
until the portion of the main building intended for this purpose is com- 
pleted. 

The plan of the Smithsonian building was designed by the architect, 
and recommended to the board by a committee of the Regents, before the 
programme of organization was adopted. It is not strange, therefore, when 
the building came to be occupied, that changes in the internal arrange- 
ment should be deemed advisable which would better adapt it to the 
wants of the institution. Such changes, at my suggestion, have been 
made; and for the propriety of these I am responsible. They are princi- 
pally, however, those of simplification, and in themselves add nothing to 
the cost of the edifice. An increased expense, however, will arise out of 
the furnishing of new rooms which have been acquired by the alterations^ 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HErvRY, 
Secretary of the Siniihsonian Institution.. 



23 [ 120 ] 



APPENDIX 



TO 



THE SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



The following is a detailed account of the botanical explorations in 
New Mexico and California, referred to in the report:* 

Mr. Lindheimer was sent to Texas, and an account of hi? collections 
was published in the Boston Journal of Natural History, vol. 5. They 
were made in lS43-'4, near Houston, and west of the Colorado, and 
have long since been distributed to subscribers. 

His collections made further west, at New Braunfels, and in excursions 
in the dangerous regions westward, on the Llanos, k.V:.c., in 1S15-'S, are 
now in course of study by Dr. Gray and Dr. Engleaian. The sets will 
soon be distributed to the subscribers. It is desirable that the Smithso- 
nian Institution should become a subscriber. The sets at furthest will 
comprise not more than five hundred species, which, at $*8 per hun- 
dred specimens, will amount to ;jp40. 

Mr. Augustus Fendler was sent to Santa Fe in August, 1846, passed 
the winter there, and explored the country around until August, 1847, 
when he was obliged to return. (See memoir on his collections, published 
in the Memoirs of the American Academy, vol. 3, new series.) The 
fuller sets of these plants have all been disposed of. The largest on hand 
contains only two hundred and five species, which the Secretary has taken 
for the Smithsonian Institution at the usual price of $1(J per hundred 
specimens. 

Next, aided by advances from a citizen of Boston interested in encour- 
aging these scientific investigations, who advances $200 a year f-»r three 
years, Mr. Fendler was provided with the necessary outfit, and, with his 
brother as an assistant, was sent to explore the great interior valley be- 
tween the Rocky mountains and California, to make his headquarters at the 
Mormon city on Utah lake, and explore the surrounding regions— espcrially 
the country south and southeast between that place and Santa Fe, which 
is entirely new ground, and bids fair to be of great interest. Meetmg 
with an accident near Fort Kearny, on his way out, which destroyed 
much of his paper and other indispensable equipments, with a part ol his 
mules, he has, as I learn from accounts received, been obliged to turn 
back to Independence, and is now refitting, in the hope still of reachmg 
his ground this autumn, so as to begin his researches early next sprmg. 
If the Smithsojiian Institution would subscribe to this enterprise the same 
as the private gentleman of Boston referred to, or Ivdf that sum, it would 
aftbrd very important— indeed, I must now say, almost indispensable- 
assistance; and it would receive, in return, an equivalent share ot the 



This it.farmalion is from Dr. Gray, of Cambridge. 



[120] 24 

scientific proceeds of the expedition. Fendler is a collector of extraordi- 
nary aptitude and skill, and his specimens have been pronounced to be 
unsurpassed in perfection, 

Mr. Charles Wright started last summer from San Antonio, Texas, to 
El Pnso del Norte^ in the southern part of New Mexico, accompatiying 
the United States troops. He went on his own risk and that of Dr. 
Gray, aided by an advance of $125 made up by two gentlemen of Bos- 
ton. It is desirable to keep him in New Mexico to explore the unvisited 
regions of it for another year at least, if not for two or three. A subscrip- 
tion ot $150 per year for this and next year, at least, on the part of the 
Smithsonian Institution, would be a most important contribution to the 
advancement of Amcn'ican science, and would bring this enterprise to a 
successful issue. The collections made during the present season in a 
region never before visited by a naturalist are expected to come to hand, 
and to be distributed, in the covu'se of the ensuing winter. 

Communicaiion from Professor Ag-assiz, relative to the formation of a 

Museum. 

''As you do not contemplate forming a general museum in the Smith- 
sonian Institution, but limit yourself to preserving the specimens re- 
ferred to in the papers published in the Contributions, and to collecting 
materials upon some iew special subjects, I would respectfully suggest 
that a special collection of living and tertiary shells of the United States, 
and another of embryos and young animals of all classes, be the subjects 
to which you direct tlie attention and care of the keeper of the natural 
history coliections. These collections should be made with special ref- 
erence to the solution of some most important questions now pending in 
the study of natiu'al history. 

"Let me first point out to you the objects of a special collection of living 
and tertiary shells. It is a problem to ascertain the mean annual tem- 
perature of the diflerent geological periods anterior to the present condition 
of our globe. Various estimates have been made, but they do not rest 
upon sufficient data. Now the United States are most favorably situated for 
the solution of this question. Tliere is a shore extending north and south 
over more than twenty-three degrees of latitude, along which shells are 
everyv/liere common, and present a succession of remarkable changes in 
their distribution and mode of association from the northernmost bound- 
aries of that zone to its southern extremity, closely connected with the 
ditFerences of climate under whose influences they live in different lati- 
tudes. A more minute investigation into the limits of this distribution, 
vvhic^i has already'- been correctly ascertained by Dr. A. A. Gould for the 
northern States, would soon show such precise relations with the climate 
as to enable the observer to conclude from the shells the climate, (where 
he knows only the sliells without indications upon their origin) and vice 
versa. What renders the United States particularly adapted for such in- 
vestigations is the fact, that there is along the same shore a belt of tertiary 
deposites extending OA^er as wide a zone as the present seashore. In these 
depositcs shells abound; and, \vhat is most remarkable, the older or lower 
beds contain a greater proportion of species similar to those which at pres- 
ent occur further south, whilst the uppermost layers contain such as are 
still to be found alive in the same vicinity. Large collections of these 



25 [ 1-20 ] 

fossil shells, made from the diflevent tertiary beds in ditl'eront latitudes from 
Maine to Florida, judiciously kept apart, would no doubt in time atlbrd 
as precise documents for ascertaining the mean annual temperature of tbese 
shores during the difTerent periods of the tertiory times, as a series of 
thermometric observations. The person intrusted with the collection of 
these materials should of course know the difference between the suc- 
cessive beds of the tertiary deposites, and also the importance of never 
mixing fossils from diflerent beds. Nothing would contribute more 
directly to advance the solution of this problem than to obtain fiom the 
superintendent of the United States coast survey some soundings and 
dredgings at different depths, as the shells which live about low-water 
mark are very ditlerent from those which occur successively at dilferent 
depths, and such collections would contribute to establish the ratio of in- 
fluence which climate has upon living beings. Species which are found 
near the shores at a given point occurring also at various depths further 
south, it is plain how important it would be to ascertain minutely their dis- 
tribution in both directions horizontally and vertically. Such collections 
should be extended to the classes of corals and echinodermS; including 
in the latter the star fishes and sea urchins. 

"The other collection to which 1 call your attention- is a series of em- 
bryos and young animals. There is no nuiseum at present in which 
there is anything like a collection of this kind, as it should be every- 
where, since the importance of embryology has been fully appreciated. 
Taking care that such series be put up in the Smithsonian Institution, 
wouldat once give to the collections of that establishment the stamp of 
a true progressive scientific museum, even if it was confined to but few 
branches. Embryonic collections can be made with a two fold object: 
first, with a view of tracing the mode of formation and successive changes 
of organs, constituting anatomical and physiological embryology; second, 
with a view of comparing the ch.inges of forms which young animals 
undergo ^fith the permanent forms of others similar to them, constituting 
zoological embryology. To contribute to the progress of both these 
branches of embryology, distinct collections should be made and kept as 
distinct as our zoological and anatomical collections generally are. iMy 
idea is, that an anatomical museum oi preparatmis from embryos and 
young animals of all classes should be made at the same time as a zoolog- 
ical museum of young in all ages and stages of growth, preserved whole. 
Havin<^ but recently called attention to the miportance there is in compar- 
ing the different stages of growth of all animals in order to ascertain thei 
true relative position in a natural system, there is no pssil)ility at present 
of appreciating the full value which such a collection will have lor the 
future Every day I feel the want of it, and hundreds of questions, 
which' arise constantly since the idea has been started, cannot be settled, 
simply because there are no materials at hand anywhere for comparison. 




an oilier coiiecuuijo, cici 111*-- '"•^— -- i - i^„„,^,i u:„ 

in advance of all similar establishments so long as ^^"^''^Jf;"^^^'^^^ 
attention to it. The expenses wonld not be very S'-^^'f Vo n te S eu' 
series made from the most common ^"'"^^^'^ ^^''^^^'^,,':^ ^.^j^^^^^u''^^^^ 
I can but repeat what 1 have said more than once, that the best chance 



[ 120 ] 26 

for making rapid progress in this, as in every other branch of natural 
history, is to be largely supplied with the most common things. Hunting 
for varieties kills the spirit of deep investigation Series of skeletons, 
brains, hearts, intestines, sexual organs, skins, &c., &c,, of the same 
common animals in all ages, for the different classes, would fully answer the 
purpose. Making such collections, for instance, for the class mammalia 
only from thecal or dog, the rabbit, the bat, the mole, the hog, the horse, 
the sheep, goat, or cow, the opossum, Avould be quite sufhcient. For 
birds, from a hawk, a pigeon, a hen, a heron, a duck, a raven or crow, a fly- 
catcher, a sparrow,a woodpecker, a humming-bird, and a parrot, would be 
enough. For reptiles, from a turtle, a lizard, a snake, a salamander, and a 
frog. For fishes, from a shark, a skate, a lamprey eel, &c., ^c. You see 
nothing rare, but complete series of anatomical preparations of young in 
different stages of growth, and also complete series of these young pre- 
served whole for zoological comparison. An appeal should be made 
throughout the country to furnish materials. A stay of a few weeks in one 
of the great centres, where hundreds of thousands of pigs are killed, would 
afford invaluable materials to clear up the history of their growth, and to 
establish the true relations between living and fossil pachyderms — nay, 
perhaps give us -the most correct outlines of those types which have be- 
come extinct, and the forms of which are perhaps only preserved in our 
days in some transient state of our living species. I entertain, indeed, 
no doubt about the practicability of drawing correct figures of the fossil 
palentherium, anoplotherium, &c., from the embryos of our hogs and 
horses. 

"There is a third point to which I would call your attention. It has 
struck me that the reason why comparative anatomy is so much neglected. 
in this country, and scarcely at all studied by the young physicians, whilst 
in Germany it is made the foundation of all medical studies, is to be 
attributed to the fact that there is no text-book, no atlas of anatomical 
plates, made upon materials which can be obtained on this continent, and 
hence the impossibility for the beginner to make use of the works, even the 
best treatises, which we now possess. A chemical, philosophical, astro- 
nomical, mineralogical or geological text-book, and the necessary appa- 
ratus for studying the phenomena of inorganic nature, can be and liave been 
imported, and found useful; as the laws which govern them are not only the 
same, but the materials themselves thus concerned are identical. Not so 
with animals and plants. Let a medical student in this country open 
Cuvier's wonderful papers upon the anatomy of molluscs, which have 
for nearly half a century been the models offered to our students for imi- 
tation, and he will not find one single identical species here for examina- 
tion or comparison. All the investigations which have most directly con- 
tributed to the advancement of comparative anatomy and physiology 
within tlie last twenty years have been made upon animals which do not 
occur upon this continent, and I do not see how American students in 
general can be induced to take part in this movement unless they are pro- 
vided with a set of illustrations resting upon native animals, easily ob- 
tained anywhere." 



27 



[120] 



The thanks of tlie Board of Regents are due to the following gentlemen 
who have undertaken the labor and responsibility of examining memoirs 
which have been submitted to them. It is proper to observe that the 
commissioners have no means of verifying, by their own experience, the 
correctness of the statements presented to them for examination, and there- 
fore they cannot be expected to vouch for more than the general character 
of the memoir. 



John Torrey, M. D., 
Co'onel J. J. Abert, 
Lieut. M. F. Maury, 
Lieut. Charles H. Davis, 
Professor Stephen Alexander, 
Professor Benjamin Peirce, 
Professor VV. C. Bond, 
Major A. Mordecai, 
Captain Frederick A. Smith, 
Lieut. M. L. Smith, 
L. Gale, M. D., 
C. D. Meigs, M.D., 



T. W. Harris, M. D., 
Professor E. ^lisbury, 
Protessor Gibbs, 
J.E. Holbrook, M. D., 
Professor Louis Agassiz, 
Professor Charles Davies, 
Professor Hackley, 
Charles C. Page, M. D., 
Right Rev. Bishop Alonzo Potter, 
Brantx- Mayer, esq., 
ColonelJ. D. Graham. 
T. H, Lane, esq. 



A list of observers from whom monthly meteorolooical returns have been re- 
ceived at the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1S49. 



MAINE. 



Samuel H. Merrill, Old Town. 
Milton Welch, Hoidton. 
George B. Barrows, Frijtburg. 
James G. Garland, Biddeford. 
Rufus Buck, Bucksport . 
S. A. Eveleth, Winahani. 



Joshua Bardett, Whitehead. 
J. D. Parker, Steuben. 
Stephen Gilman, Bangor. 
S. Eveleth, Patten. 
George Prince, Thomaston. 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 



William Prescott, Concord . 
Robot C. Mack, Londonderry. 
Rev. L. W. Leonard, Dublin. 



Thomas B. Laighton, Isle of Shoals. 
Doctor Charles Chase, U. S. Navy, 

Portsmouth. 



VERMONT. 



Rev. Zadock Thompson, Z??/r/i/i5-^o?i. Professor W. H. V<\.\kex , Middhbury . 



Charles C. Frost, Brattleboro. 
D. P. Thompson, Montpelier. 



R. M. Manly, Randolph. 



!♦ 



[120] 



28 



MASSACHUSETTS. 

Jacob Bachelder, Lijnn. James Ritchie, Z?i/.riwr?/ 

Charles J. Gillis, Lowell. Henry Rice, Mendoii. 

Samuel F. Haven, Worcester. Abraham S 

Benjamin Kent, Roxlmnj. Amasa Holcomb, Soutlncick 

Gnstavus A. Hyde, Framingham. John G. JMetcalf, Menflon. 

William Bacon, Riclimond. Thomas Bailey, Neio Bedford. 
Professor E. S. Snell, Amherst. 



Peet, Stuckhridge, 



RHODE ISLAND. 

Professor K. Caswell, Providence. 



CONNECTICUT. 



Rev. T. Edv/ards, New London. 
Prof. A\\o. W. Smith, Middletown. 
Professor E. Cutler, Neio Haven. 



M. H. Cobb, North Colehrook. 
Doctor Ovid Plumb, ^alisbunj. 
Charles H. Hoadly, Hartford. 



NEW YORK. 



L. F. Munger, Albioji. 

Ezra Parmelee, Morley. 

C. F. Maurice, ^ing Sing. 

E. A. Dayton, Madrid. 

John Bowman, Baldwinsville . 

Walter D. Yale, Flouseville. 

J. E. Breed, Sni'thville. 

Ephraim N. Byram, Sag Harbor. 

]*rof. Chs. B. Warring, Pougltkeepsie 

John Lefferts, Lodi. 

James M. Tower, WnterviUe. 

O. W. Morris, Neio Yorkdty. 

Elislia Foote, Seneca Falls. 

John P. Fairchild, Seneca Falls. 

Dr. F. B. H(High, Sonierville. 

A. Hosmer; BuJ'alo. 



Cornelius Chase, Chatham. 
E. Giddings, Lockport. 
John F. Jenkins, North Salem. 
J. W. Earle, Springville. 
C. Strong, Osicego. 
U. S. Naval Station, Sackett^s Harbor. 
U. S. Navy Yard, Neiv York. 
William E. Guest, Ogdensbiirg. 
Albert G. Carll,/f?7c/?o, Long Island. 
Professor Wetherill, Rochester. 
J. P. Chapman, Clockville. 
Jas. H. Ball, Alps, Rensselaer county . 
James B. Trevor, Lockport, N. Y. 
L. A. Beardsley, South Edmeston, 

Otsego county. 



NEW JERSEY. 



Thomas B. Merrick, Bellemlle. Dr. S. C. Thornton, Mooresiown. 

Jacob S. Gary, Lambcrtsville. W. A. Whitehead, Newark. 

Professor Adolph Frost, Burlington. John Clement, jr., Haddonfield. 
R. L. Cooke, Bloonifield. 



PENNSYLVANIA. 



Lorin Blodget, Sugar Grove. 
A. R. McCoy, Easton. 
Prof. J. R. Williams, Canonsburg. 
Edward Fenderich, Pittsburg. 
Prof. M. Jacobs, Gettysburg. 



J. F. Coorlies, Philadelphia. 
Dr. Paul Swift, Philadelphia. 
William A. Stokes, St. Mary^s. 
Ebenezer Hance, Morrisville. 
F. L. Stewart, Canonsburg. 



2!) 



[120] 



Messrs. Edwards & Miller; Lima. 
C. P. Jones, Valley Forge. 
Freeman Lewis, Union Tovn. 
Andrew Roulston, Freeport. 
John Jackson, Darby. 
John Wise, Lancaster. 
David Peelor, Indiana. 
Corydon Marks, Manchester . 
Dr. H. Smyser, Pittsburg. 
R. P. Stevens, Ccips. 
Benjamin Grant, Erie. 



Prof. S. F. Baird, Carlisle. 
Dr. D. Alter, Frceport. 
L. R. Huebener, Bethleli/ni. 
Prof. L, D. Williams, Meadoille. 
Dr. Alfred Creigh, Wasliington. 
F. A. Muhlenburg, jr., Lancaster. 
Henry W. Thorp, Wellsboro. 
U. S. Navy Yard, Philadelphia. 
Lieut. Josepli Reed, U. S. N., Pkila. 
Dr. J, Heiseley, Harrisburg. 



DELAWARE. 



Prof. VV. A. Norton, Newark. 



John Burton, Lewes. 



MARYLAND. 

Josiah Jones, WalkersviUe. Isaac Bond, Sandy Hill, Montg07n- 

A. P. Dalrymple, Nottingham. ery county. 

T. C. Atkinson, Cumberland. Henry W. Thorp, Port Deposite. 

Professor William Baer, Sykesville, Carroll county. 

VIRGINIA. 

J. C, Wills, Heatlisville . R. F. Astrop, Diamojid Grove. 

N. F. D. Browne, Leesburg. J. B. Imboden, Etaun'on. 

Professor Frs, J. Mettaner, Prince U. S. Navy Yard, Gosport. 

Edward Court House. Charles J. Meriwether, Charloltcs- 
Benjamin Hallowell, Alexandria. mile. 

B. R. Wellford, Fredericksburg. D avidTlirner, Richnond. 

NORTH CAROLINA. 

Rev. J. A. Shepherd, Lake Scup- Prof. James Phillips, Chapel Hill, 
pernong. J. W. Calloway, RutJierfordion. 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Dr. John P. Barratt, Barratsville. Thomas A. Elliot, Orangeburg. 

J. A. Young, Camden. H. W. Pvavenel, St. John's, Berkc- 

Joseph T. Zealy, Orangeburg. l-iy county. 

GEORGIA. 

J. M. Cottiiig, Blilledgeville. R. T. Gibson, Whitemarsh Island. 

Prof. C. W. Lane, Milledgeville. Charles Grant, Darien. 



John Newton, Uchee Anna. 
U. S. Navy Yard, Pensacola. 



FLORIDA. 

Dr. John E. Peck, St. Augustine. 



[ 120 J 30 



ALABAMA. 



S. J. Ciimming, MnnrneviVe. Benjamin F. Holley, WcokavUle. 

Dr. S. B. North, Mobile. Dr. Samuel K. Jennings, Eric. 

Dr. Charles Frederick Percival, Benton, LowncWs county. 



MISSISSlf'PI. 



George L. C. Davis, Natchez. Charles A. Folsom, Gainesville. 

A. L. Hatch, Vicksburg. Thomas Oakley, Jackson. 

David Moore, McLeod^s post office. James H. Vincent, Granville. 
E. W. Beckwith, Conio , Panola county . 

TEXAS. 

T. C. Ervendherg, New Wied, H. Yoakum, Huntsville. 
Comal county. 

LOUISIANA. 

D. E. H. Barton, New Orleans. 

ARKANSAS. 

Philip L. Anthony, Little Rock. 

TENNESSEE. 

Dr. W. W. McNelly, Fayetteville. B. F. Tavel, Dover. 

Prof. James Hamilton, Nashville. U. S. Navy Yard, Memphis. 

William Rothrock, Nashville. 

KENTUCKY. 

J. E. Younglove, Boivling Green. A. Beatty, Prospect Hill. 
Mrs. li. Young, Springdale, tiear Louisville. 

OHIO. 

Professors Fairchild and Dascomb, Geo. L. Crookham, Jackson Court 

Obei-lin. House. 

W. D. Watkins, Norton. Eugene Pardee, Wooster. 

Professor W. W. Mather, Athens. Michael Beecher, Middlebury. 

Dr. E. C, Bidwell, Keene. John Lea, Cincinnati. 

Professor J. W. Andrews, Marietta. William Lapham, Mount Tabor. 

Professor P. Carter, Granville. Dr. S. N. Sanford, Granville. 

Joseph C. Hatfield, Lebanon. F. A. Benton, Kcene, Coshocto7i 
Prof. S. G. Irvine, N^ew Concord. county. 

MICHIGAN. 

Charles Betts, Burr Oak, St. William A. Raymond, Detroit. 

Joseph^s county. Franklin Everett, Grand Rapids. 



31 [ 120 ] 

Rev. George Duffield, Detroit. Dr. H. R. Schctterly, Howell, 

Dr. W. M. Campbell, i?c^/i^/e Creek. Livingston county. 

James G. Birney, Lower Saginaw. Dr. H. tlolliston, Grand Ripids. 
Thomas Whelpley^ Bluest. 

INDI.VNA. 

W. W. Austin, Walnut Hills. Prof. A. C. Huestis, Fort Wayne. 

Dr. John 'P. Plummerj Richmond. Prof. S. H. Thompson^ South 
B. M. Newkirk, Laporte. Hanover. 

Prof. Joseph Tingley, New Castle. Dr. D. D. Owen, New Harmony. 

ILLINOIS. 

Rev. Geo. B. Giddings, Quincy. Silas Meacham, Monroe. 

S. Y. McMasters, Alton. Norton Johnson, Alton. 

Dr. W. H. Joslyn, Waiikegan. William Holt, Rockford. 

Prof. William Coffin, Jacksonville. Dr. S. B. Mead^ Augusta. 

IOWA. 

T. S. Parvin, Muscatine. 

"WISCONSIN. 

Dr. B. F. Mills^ Baraboo, Sauk Rev. John Gridley, Southport. 

county. . Prof. S. P. Lathrop, Beloit. 

James C. Brayton, Aztalan. Orrin Dinsmore, Emerald Grove. 
J. A. Lapham, Milwaukie. 

MINNESOTA. 

Rev. Robert Hopkins, Tracers des Joseph W. Holt, Fond du- Lac. 
Sioux. 

BRITISH POSSESSIONS. 

Captain J. H. Lefroy, Toronto, H. B. M. Military Station, *S'^ 

Canada West. John^s, New Foundland. 

Henry Poole, Pictou, Nova Scotia. 

INDIAN TERRITORIES. 

P. P. Brov/n, Doaksville, Choctaw T. B. Van Home, Tahhquah, 
Nation, Cherokee Nation. 



[ no ] 32 



SECOND REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION, RELATIVE TO THE LIBRARY-PRESENTED JAN. 2, 1S50. 

To the Seci'e'ary of the Smithsonia?i Listitution : 

Sir: In anticipation of the annual meeting of the Board of Regents, I 
beg leave to present to yon t!ie following report of operations during the 
year 1S49, in the department committed to my care. 

A rapid growth of the hl)rary during this period was not expected. We 
had not at our disposal funds tor the extensive purchase of books. But 
although we have been compelled to postpone the fnlfJment of our de- 
sign in one of its most essential features, the delay has been improved in 
making ai-rangements which will greatly facilitate our future progress, and 
in advancing, to a degree which would not otherwise have been possible', 
the plans detailed in my last report, for rendering our library a centre of 
bibliographical reference. 

Statistics of the Libranj. 

Previous to the present year, the books belonging to the institution 
were few, and were in the hands of tlie< various oiiicers, the Building 
Committee, and gentlemen engaged in preparing memoirs for our pubhca- 
tions. They have been collected together, arranged, and prepared for 
use. For the first t\yo or three months they were lodged in a room in 
the Patent Office, obligingly jjlaced at our disposal by the Hon. E. Burke, 
then Commissioner of Patents. In March, the books were transferred to 
the second story of the eastern range of our own building, where they still 
remain. The spacious rooms of the western wing are now nearly ready 
for occupation. Temporm'y shelves have been erected for the accomiuo- 
dation of the books, and we propose soon to remove them thither. 

The collection, though small, forms a respectable beginning. 

The following table exhibits the number of books and other aj-ticles be- 
longing to the library, including a few deposited by an individual for the 
use of the institution: 

Books ------- 

Pamphlets ...... 

Engravings, in sheets or framed 

Maps and charts, in sheets or mounted 

IMusic, in sheets - - - - . - 

Architectural drawings .... 

Other articles, (five MSS., two medals, &c.) - 

Whole number of articles . - . . 



4,233 


too 


1.3S3 


42 


106 


30 


29 


6.57S 



33 



[ 120] 



These have been derived from the following sources: 



o 



Parchases ' 2, SiC 

Donat.!ons 157 

Copyrights 867 

Deposits , 873 



4,233 






a 








US 

c 






OB 
W) 


> 




, 


c 


a 

Ml 


TO 

5" 




5 


w 


s 


S 









690 ! 
3.j I 



1,335 



47 
1 



22 

20 



loe 



30 



2 

22 



755 1,383 : 42 1 lOf. 



29 



a 
o 



3,681 
953 

1,071 

873 



6,578 



1 ,062 volumes. 



431 

699 
124 



(C 



The books purchased may be classified as follows: 
Memoirs of learned societies, and literary and scientific 

journals --.... 

Works on the fine arts, including those purchased by 

the Building Committee .... 
Bibliographical works . . . . 

Scientific works purchased for the use of authors 

The j)U7-chascs, it will be seen, have been few. for the imperative reason 
already mentioned. They do not comprise all the books in either of the 
selections, which I had the honor to present last year; nor can we hope 
to buy them all with even another annual appropriation. It will be 
observed, too, that some books have been bought in other departments 
than those to which the selections mentioned were confined. For a large 
hbrary, it is sometimes wise to depart from a plan of purchasing, which, 
on general principles, may have been adopted as the best. The exigen- 
cies and opportunities of the bookniarket may not only justify but de- 
mand such a departure. A collection of books which may have occupied 
in gathering it the best years of an active life, and the constant thoughts 
of a highly cultivated mind, may be offered to us at a low price. In 
l^uying it, we get not only the books, but the study and labor which 
■were necessary for selecting and procuring them. Although, therefore,, 
the collection be out of the line of our immediate plans, it should not, on 
that account alone, be refused. The temptations to svrerve from an es- 
tablished system are, however, fiom this source, both numerous and 
strong; and good judgment is necessary to determine, in each case, the 
course to be pursued. 

With reference to donations, those already received are believed to be 
BO criterion by which to judge of our probable annual accessions from 
this source. It is not generally known that we are ready to receive such 
presents. No formal invitation for them has been issued. The history 
of all the hbraries in this country is, however, singularly instructive upon 
this point. More than three-fourths of all the books in our public libra- 
ries are presents. Nearly the same thing may be said of some of the large 
libraries of Europe. Of 43.5,000 volumes in the British Museum, more 
than 250,000 were presented. Our situation in this respect is peculiarly 
promising. The seat of government of the United States must have an 
important and growing influence in literary aflfairs. There will always 
"be among the officers of the government^ the members of Congress, and. 
Mis.-— 3 



[ 120 ] 34 

the foreign diplomatic corps, men of high attaianionts in science and let- 
ters. Our institution will, we may hope, receive their w-armest sympathy. 
During the sessions of Congress, there will be also a large concourse of 
visitors from our own and other lands, M'hose interest is strong in learning, 
and who will rejoice to find here the facilities for the gratification of their 
favorite tastes. Tliere will thus, we may hope, grov/ up here, aside from 
political circles, a literary influence hke that around many of the universi- 
ties of Europe, and like that which has added so much lustre to the capi- 
tal of Prussia. If we are true to our position, if we secure and retain the 
confidence of that part of the community most interested in our opera- 
tions, we shall attract the donations and bequests of a wide and ever en- 
larging circle of the friends of science and good letters. The meagreness 
of our public libraries has led men of wealth and of study to collect for 
themselves, in special departtnents, private libraries quite complete within. 
the range to whicli ihey are limited. The aggregation of these libraries, 
as they now exist, would make perhaps a better library for research than 
could be formed by the union of all our public collections. It is not im- 
probable that some of tiiese will eventually be intrusted by their proprie- 
tors to the permanent guardianship of our institution, A scholar of ade- 
Cjuate means nowhere, excepting in his ov/n writings, presents to the 
world so good a representation of his tastes, pursuits, and attainments, as 
in the collections which he makes of the writings of others. His hbrary 
shows the friends whom he chose, the companions in whom he delighted. 
It shows the range of his sympathies and the extent and minuteness of 
his investigations. It is the exponent of his intellectual life. It is asso- 
ciated with his severest struggles, his best aspirations, his noblest triumphs. 
He shrinks from the thought of its being scattered when he can no longer 
use it, and he seeks a safe depository where it may remain — the most 
enduring monument that can be erected to his learning and his munifi- 
cence. 

It is upon this honorable principle in the scholar's character that our 
hopes are four^ded. Such a depository as he seeks we wish to form here. 
Purchases of books, even were our whole income devoted to liiem alone, 
would never place us on an equal footing with the scholars of Europe. 
We have, however, other reliance. If we make a beginning; if we provide 
room, safe custody, and the proper facilities for rendering such a collec- 
tion in the highest degree subservient to its legitimate purposes, private 
liberality v/ill come vigorously to our aid. 

Another source to which we may look for considerable accessions to our 

.'library, a-ad one from which we have, as yet, little to report, is exchanges. 

"The publications of the several State governments are immerous, and we 

"Can, without doubt, procure most of them by exchange and donation. 

'TThe various learned societies to which we have presented copies of our 

first volume of Contributions, in thanking us for the gift, have assured us 

of their i)itention to send us their own memoirs and transactions in return. 

These will be of great value as the sources of current information in 

science and literature, and will go far towards remunerating us for the 

expense of our own publications. Even from libraries which put forth no 

regular publications, we have been promised valuable returns. 

1 herewith present a list ofall the books, maps, charts, musical compo- 
sitions, etc., deposited in our library b)'^ authors and p'roprietors, for the 
security of the copyriglit, in compliance with the requirement of the 
JOth section of the act of Congress establishing the institution. The 



35 [120] 

•whole number of volumes and other articles received, from the 10th of 
August, 1846, to the 1st of January, 1849, is 1,071. Of these, 521 (viz: 
389 books, 94 pieces of music, and 38 other ariicles) v.' ere received from. 
January 1 to December 31, 1849. I have no means of ascertaining the 
«xact number of copyrights secured in the United States during this 
period. The system of record and deposit in the clerks' offices and State 
Department is such as to render it difnoult, if not impossible, to ascertain 
with accuracy the statistics of this subject. The librarian of the copy- 
right rooms of the State Depanment informs me tliat the number of books 
annually deposited there is about 400. This cannot be more, I thi.uk, 
than one half of tlie whole number for which copyrights are nominally 
secured each year in the United States. 

For the first two years and a half from the date of our charter, but few 
publishers complied with the requirement of the act of Congress, so far 
as our institution was concerned. During the last year, however, the 
number has greatly increased; and now, we regularly receive the publi- 
cations of most of the large publishing houses in the country. The mere 
cost of the books sent is not regarded by pubUshers; but the transmis- 
sion of them is sometimes troublesome and expensive. If they could be 
forwarded without expense to the publis!iers, and if we could render the 
deposite more immediately advantageous, no doubt many more books 
would be sent to us. 

To the public, the importance, immediate and prospective, of having a 
central depot, where all the products of the American press maj'- be gath- 
€red, year by year, and preserved for reference, is very great. The inter- 
est with which those who in 1950 may consult this library would view 
a complete collection of all the works printed in America in 1850, can. 
only be fully and rightly estimated by the historian and bibliographer, 
who has sought in vain for the productions of the past. Tiiese publica- 
tions should be kept apart from the rest of the library, in chronological 
order. They should be so marked that they may be readily and surely 
identified. They should be restricted to the library room, except when 
required incase of dispute respecting titles; but they should be freely 
accessible to all who wish to consult them in the library. Thus, in coming 
years, the collection would form a documentary liistory of American let- 
ters, science and art. It is greatly to be desired, however, that the col- 
lection should be complete, wiihoui a single oniissio?i. We wish for every 
book, every pamphlet, every printed or engraved production, however 
apparently insignificant. Who can tell what may not be important in 
future centuries? 

"It is in the fragments, now so rare an-1 precious, of some alphabets, of 
some smallgrammars published for the use of schools about the middle of 
the 15th century, or in the letters distributed in Germany by the rehgious 
bodies commissioned to collect alms, that bibliographers now seek lo dis- 
cover the first processes employed by the inventors of xylography and 
typography. It is in a forgotten collection of indifferent plates, published 
at Venice by Fausto Verantio, towards the end of the sixteenth century, 
that an engineer, who interests himself in the history of the mechanical 
arts, might find the first diagram of iron suspension bridges."— [Libri.] 

But neither the collection of copyrights at the State Department, nor 
.that in the library of Congress, nor our own, is complete, or approaching 



[ 120 ] 36 

completeness. Thus, the historical and. bibliographical importance of each 
is greatly diminished. 

To publishers it is necessary, for -the security of their property, that a 
certified copy of each work should someiohere be preserved. The depos- 
iting of the copy in the office of the disctrict clerk for the State Depart- 
ment, has been by the Supreme Court of the United States declared to 
be essential to securing a valid copyright. Whether the same be true 
with reference to the copies required for our institution and the library of 
Congress, is a question of law which I am unable to answer. The in- 
terest of publishers, as v/ell as of the public, seems to require additional 
and more explicit legislation on this subject. 

In this connexion 1 beg leave to suggest the establishment of a raontMy 
huUctin, in which the list of all works received during the preceding 
month, witii the titles in full, the date of deposite, and the name of the pro- 
prietor, should be printed. Copies of this might be sent to every ptiblisher 
who complies with the law. This journal might be widely and gratui- 
tously distributed among the literary institutions of this country, and of 
Europe. The record would then be, as an advertisement, far more val- 
uable to the proprietor than the book sent and the expense of transmission. 
Although I suggest the commencement of a bnlletin in tliis particular 
connexion, 1 would not by any means confine it to the publication of the 
lists of copyright works. It might include a scientijic as well as a biblio- 
graphical department. 

in the bibliographical department might be publislied: 1st. Lists of 
publications deposited for the security of the copyright; 2d. Lists of ac- 
cessions to the library and other collections, witli the names of donors; 
3d. Lists of new v/orks published in Europe; 4th. The contents of the 
carreiit iiumbers of tiie most important reviews and journals in this 
country and Europe, translating the titles of articles published in other 
langtjages than English; .5th. Items of intelligence and short essays of 
interest to book producers and readers. 

This bulletin might at first be published at irregular intervals, as v/e- 
find the materials, and it should be of such a gener?d character as not to 
conflict vvith any established journal. 

General catalogue of American libraries. 

An important part of the plan for rendering our library immediately 
useful to American scholars is the proposed general catalogue of the books 
contained in ail our public libraries, I am not aware that such a thing 
lias ever before been attempted on so large a scale. The Navy Department 
of the Frencli government publislied, a few years ago, a general catalogue 
of the books belonging to the various libraries (eleven in number) con- 
jiected with that department. This useful work is contained in five large 
octavo volumes. 

The French Department of the Interior, a fcAV years ago, ordered a gen- 
eral catalogue to be made of all the manuscripts in the public libraries of 
Prance, and considerable progress has been made in the work. 

But nothing like a general catalogue of ail the libraries of a country has 
ever, to my knowledge, been undertaken. It has indeed been found next 
to impossible to make a catalogue of the largest library of each country. 
31uch less possible would it be to make a general catalogue of all the- 



87 [ 120 J 

libraries. The project, however, has lately been discussed in England, 
as appears from the report and minutes of'evidetice of the Select Com- 
mittee of the House of Gommoiis on public libraries. The discussion 
may have been suggested by the plan proposed by our institution. Be 
this as it may, it resulted in a strong recommendation, on the part of the 
committee, of great attention to a sijstem of catalogues, and a central col- 
lection of catalogues — objects which would seem too obviously important io 
require formal announcement, and yet which have been much disregarded. 
There are few countries, indeed, where a general catalogue would be at 
all practicable. It is not an easy task even here: bui it is not iuipossible. 
To its accomplisliment, I liave, during the past year, devoted consider- 
able time. 

The plan of the work I gave in my last report. On this plan, fifty- 
five thousand titles have been prepared' from printed catalogues, and four 
thousand have been transcribed. 

The titles must, of course, partake of the imperfections of the cata- 
logues from which they are derived. These are neither few nor small. 
I say this not for the purpose of finding fault with their compilers: 
such censure would often be misplaced and unjust. The fault for inac- 
curate catalogues is frequently attributable less to the librarians wl'io make 
them, than to their employers, whose impatience will not brook the delay 
necessary for the preparation of a valuable catalogue, or whose false no- 
tions of economy lend them to select inconipetent librarians because they 
will work cheaply, or require competent ones to perform so many other 
duties, that they liave not time lo devote to the catalogue; or, finally, who 
cripple and trammel them by prescribing absurd and unsuitable systems. 
Were the original registries iu all our library catalogues satisfactory, a bet- 
ter service could hardly be rendered to learning, in this country, than by 
completing and printing this general catalogue. 

The work at present furnishes us v/ith a catalogue, in one alphabet, of 
the several libraries in Washington, as well as in Cambridge. But we 
hope that it will be found practicable, through the agency of the Smith- 
sonian institution, to secure a general uniformity among the various libra- 
ries in the preparation of catalogues, and to establish a system of stereo- 
typing them by separate titles; which will enable each, library to print an- 
nual editions of its catalogue, incorporating the tides of tlie last accessions 
to the collection; and Mdiich will enable us, by means of tlie same ti- 
tles, to print a general catalogue of all the libraries. The adjustment of 
all the details of sucii a system must, of course, be the \vork of time, and 
it may be found impracticable for us to commence the enterprise until we 
have a printing office of our own. I 

Statistics of American Libraries. 

In my last report, I stated th.at 1 had sent lo the various librarians in 
the country a circular letter containing queries intended to elicit import- 
ant information respecting the public libraries. I had not then received a 
: sufficient number of reports to warrant my presenting detailed statements. 
During the last year I have received a large number of returns, and have 
• collected, from various other sources, information respecting most of the 
ipublic libraries of the United States, which I have the honor lierewith to 



[120] 38 

present. I cannot suppose that this list contains all the public libraries 
in the country. I have reason to fear, on the contrary, that great num- 
"bers have been omitted, v/hich are more important than some which have 
been noticed. I have sent out, however, more than 900 circulars, have 
written several hundred letters, and have endeavored to obtain full and ac- 
curate statistics. But, in the vast extent of our favored land there are 
almost innumerable collections of books, which are unknown beyond, the 
sphere of their own usefulness. Of tliese it is impossible at once to gather 
perfect accounts. We may hope that the publication and circulation of 
the notes now collected will lead the officers of institutions, which we 
have unintentionally neglected, to give us knowledge of their existence and 
character. We hope to be useful to all of tliera in return, and to b e in constant 
correspondence with them. Our own publications, and those intrusted to 
us for distribution, will be to them, as we have reason to suppose, accept- 
able and useful. We wish to ascertain the actual literary wealth of the 
country. This is necessary, to enable us to provide intelligently for its 
wants. My investigations have not been limited to the public libraries, 
though I have not felt at liberty to make detailed statements respecting 
private collections. These last, however, are of great value. In one sense 
ilmy nxQ public libraries. Almost without exception, access to them is 
freely allov/ed to all persons who wish to use them for research. The lar- 
gest of all the private libraries in this country — that of our honored fellow- 
citizen, Col. Force — is the almost constant resort of the students of Ameri- 
can history. The liberality of private collectors of books in this country is 
highly commendable. They are not ^'bibliomaniacs," nor"bibliotaphs," 
but men of sense and learning, who have been compelled, by the poverty 
of public collections, to supply for themselves the means of pursuing 
their investigations. They are not the men to be literary misers, or to 
give way to mean and unscholarly envy. Happy is it for the progress of 
our nation that such is the case. 

These notices are not confined to the mere statement of the number of 
volumes and other articles in each library, but were intended to include a 
historical sketch of each, a general account of the kind of works of which 
it is composed, and a detailed account of many rare and valuable books and 
manuscripts; with the statement of the resources, the rate of increase, and 
the use m.ade of the collection. For these details 1 must, of course, refer 
to the appendix. It may not, however, be out of place to insert here a 
summary of the nuniber of libraries, with their size and general character. 

The whole number of libraries, (including those of the district 

schools,) of which I have been able to collect accounts, is - 10,640 
The aggregate number of volumes ... - 3,641,76.5 

The whole number, exclusive of district school libraries - 644 

The aggregate number of volumes in these - - - 2,144,069 

(These are exclusive of pamphlets, manuscripts^ maps and 

charts, &c.) 
The number of libraries said to contain 50,000 volumes and 
upwards, is but four, namely: Harvard University, (inclu- 
ding the public library, 56,000; Law, 13,000; Theological, 
3,tJU0; Medical, 1,200; students' hbraries, 10,000 volume.^,) 83,200 
The Philadelphia and Loganian Libraries - - . 60,000 

Congress Library ...... 50,000 

Boston Athenteura ---.--- 50,000 



39 [ 120 ] 

The number cf libraries containing over 20,000, (counting 
with the college libraries those of societies of students con- 
nected with the colleges, and excluding the four libraries . 
above nicnlioned) ' - - - - . . n 

The number of libraries contraning from 10,000 to 20,000 vol- 
umes ---.'. . 38 

The number of libraries containing from 5,000 to 10,000 - 75 

The whole number of libraries containing over 5,000 volumes 

each - - - . . . . ]|38. 

Whole number of hbraiies containing between ] ,000 and 5,000 

volumes --•.,.. 437 

These libraries may be classed as follows: 

1. Slate libraries, including those of the general govennnent and those 
of the State courts Almost all the States in the Union have organized 
State libraries. Those which have not, possess collections of books 
which will ere long serve as the foundations of such Libraries. These 
libraries are composed, to a great extent, of public documents of the gen- 
eral and State governments, with works on statistics, political economy, 
history, &c. Some of them, as the Congress library, the New York 
Stste library, (fee, take a much wider range, and are extremely valuable 
collections for general reference. 

The whole number of these libraries is - - • 38 

The aggregate number of volumes contained in them is - 283,037- 

2. Social libraries, including athenaeums, lyceums, young men's asso- 
ciations, mechanics' institutions, mercantile libraries, &c. — These libraries 
are generally composed ol popular works for reading rath.er than for '•efer- 
ence. But among them are many of the best collections in the country. 
They generally contain only English books. I think, however, that any 
one, looking over the catalogues of these libraries, would be surprised and 
gratiJfied to find them so well selected. History, biograpliy, travels, fic- 
tion, and periodical literature, constitute the staple in most of them, 
though many are well supplied in almost every branch of knowledge. 

1 have reason to fear that the statistics which 1 have been able to collect 
are more incomplete with reference to this than to any other class. In 
some States, almost every town has, under some name, a social library. 
Most of these collections, it is true, are very small, containing less than 
a thousand volumes; but there doubtless are a great many, far more 
considerable in size, which I have unintentionally overlooked, but of 
which 1 hope hereafter to be able to give information. 
The whole number of social libraries included in the notices is 9% 

Their aggregate mnnlier of volumes is ... 562,229- 

3. College libraries, (exclusive of students' libraries.) — Our colleges 
"are mostly eleemosynary institutions. Their libraries are frequently the 

chance aggregations of the gifts of charity; too many of them discarded, 
as well nigh worthless, from the shelves of the donors. This is not true 
of all our college libraries; for among them are a few of the choicest and 
most valuable collections in the country, selected with care and competent 
learning, purchased with economy, and guarded with prudence, tliough 
ever available to those who wish to use them aright. 
The number of college libraries in the notices is - - Il§ 

The aggregate number of volumes . - - - 580,901 



I 120 ] 40 

4. Students'' libraries in colleges, professional schools, academies, &c.^ 
The societies formed by students in our seminaries of learning for mu- 
tual improvement in debate and composition, for the most part, possess 
libraries. These are generally valuable collections of books of a popular 
character. Sometimes (in Yale College particularly) they are large, well- 
selected, and admirably arranged and kept. Dust seldom gathers on the 
books in such collections. 

The whole number of which I have obtained statistics is - 134 

The aggregate number of volumes ... -259,089 

5. Libraries of professional schools and incorporated academics . 
Whole number reported ..... 22'? 
Number of volumes ..--.- 315,237 

6. Libraries of learned societies, scientific, historical, &c. 

Whole number ...... 33 

Number of volumes ...... 143,576 

7. Public school libraries. — The State of New York has 8,070 district 
school libraries, containing .... 1^338,848 vols. 

The State of Massachusetts has, in some 1,500 libraries 91,539 " 
The State of Michigan has, in 374 libraries - - 47,220 <' 

The State of Rhode Island has, in 35 libraries - 19,637 '' 

(This State has a librar}^ in every town but three.) 
Other States have commenced such collections, and it is to be hoped 
■that they may be greatly multiplied. They are not intended for pupils 
.-alone, bnt for parents also. Tliey are composed of valuable books, de- 
^signed and adapted to communicate useful knowledge in a popular way, 
Jand to cultivate all the higher elements of character. These, with the 
public journals, are the true enligliteners of the people. It is impossible 
to over-estimate their influence. It Avould hardly be possible for books of 
an immoral and injurious tendency to find their way among such collec- 
tions. 

8. Sunday school libraries. — Of these it has not been in my power to 
collect reliable statistics. The number of books which they contain is 
very great. These books, though mostly for juvenile readers, are always 
of a moral or religious character, and they have vast influence in forming 

;the intellectual as v^ell as the moral character of the people. 

The comparative statistics presented in my last report, though not so 
full as I desired, were sufficiently so to show the general condition of the 

^country in comparison to that of other countries, with reference to the ap- 
paratus for extensive study, as well as to the means of a more superficial 
but a widely diffused general culture and enlightenment. That some 
books should be accessible to all who are disposed to read, is more import- 

^ant as a means of general education, than that vast collections should be 

Toffered to the learned few. Our own condition is that of the wide dift\i- 
sion of facilities for general reading. We have a large number of libra- 
'ries: they are widely scattered; they are freely open to the public; the 
conditions of their use are so easy that none are deprived of them who are 
disposed to use them aright. Of this we may be justly proud. It is strict- 
ly in accordance with the nature of our institutions that we should con- 
sult first for the education and mental improvement of the great body of 
the population. Our institutions are founded upon the intelligence of the 
many; not upon the power, or wealth, or learning of the feio. The 

• diffusion of knowledge is our safeguard. The common school, the 



41 [ 120 ] 

village library, tlic cheap free press, arc the supports, the guarantees, tlie 
champions of liberty. We shall never be found pleading for anything 
that interferes with these or abridges their usefulness. It is rather in thoir 
interest that we ask for the means of the highest literary acquisitions. Tlie 
stream cannot rise higher than the fountain; if the source be not well sup- 
plied, the river fails. Teachers must have the facilities for learning; and 
as the standard of education is raised, higher attainments are demanded 
from teachers — attainments v/hich cannot at present be made in this coun- 
try by the aid of our public institutions. I use the word "teachers" in 
its widest acceptation, including all who attempt to instruct the public. It 
is in the appliances for thorough study, for original research, for inde- 
pendent investigation, that we are deficient. If a studious and reflecting 
American desires to review the history of the world, or some portion of 
it, from his American position, unless he be able to expend thousands of 
dollars in the purchase of books, he must abandon his design, for he can- 
not procure them from our public collections. 

There has recently appeared from ihe American press, written by an 
American scholar, one of the most comprehensive, profound, and elegant 
"works which has ever been published in the department of literary ius- 
tory. We receive it with patriotic pride. But this work could be written, 
in this country, only by one who was able to procure for himself the ne- 
cessary literary apparatus. The library of the author contains some 13,000 
volumes, and in th.e department of Spanish literature is one of the ricliest 
in the world. Our object is to provide that every man in America, though 
he be poor, whose mind kindles with a great theme, may be able to par- 
sue it and enrich our national literature with the results of original inves- 
tigations. It is sometimes said, in reply, that if any one desires books not 
already to be found, he may order them from Europe, and receive them 
in six weeks or two months. But the scholar may be, and generally is, 
poor. If not, he cannot, from the outset, foresee the extent of the field 
over which he must range, the side-paths wliich he must trace out in or- 
der to settle the true route; he will thus be subjected to great delay in as- 
certaining and collecting his materials. But the ordering of books is a 
very different matter from what is generally supposed. If the book be a 
new one, still in the market, it may be received within a few weeks; but 
if, as is the case with tv/o-thirds, or perhaps nine-tenths of the books 
which may be needed, it be an old work, and only to be found at long in- 
tervals and by diligent search, the case is very different. His order will 
be answered only by tlie phrase, "out of print." He may order again, 
and receive for reply, •''^cannot be obtained." This will be his experience 
till he devotes years to gathering his materials, or till, discouraged by h s 
ill success, he abandons his design and sinks down to be a mere copyist 
and compiler; to take his opinions at second-hand, from perhaps superfi- 
cial and prejudiced writers — the only ones to whom he can gain access. 
We are thus, as a nation, condemned to literary dependence, if not imbe- 
cility. 

The government, and the educated men of eveiy State in Europe, have 
felt the importance of having at least one library in each country, where 
the materials for thorough scholarship should be garnered, and opened to 
the studious; yet no nation in Europe is in a situation so much demand- 
ing such a collection as ourselves. If Roscoe could not obtain, as has 
rbeen stated, insEngland, the books which he v.^anted for writing the his- 



[ 120 ] 42 

tory of Leo X, it was comparatively easy for him to cross the channel and 
consult larger collections on the continent; but for our authors a voyage of 
several thousand miles, and tiie expense of a residence abroad, are almost 
insurmountable barriers to literary exertion. 

To lay the foundations of a large library is not a short nor an easy task. 
Few persons, even among learned men, estimate its difficulties aright. 
Much time and labor must be expanded with but small immediate results. 
Patience and toil must be exercised by those intrusted with the task, and 
tolerated, if not appreciated, by the public. The history of similar insti- 
tudons must be studied in order to avoid their mistakes, and profit by 
their successful experience. Lists of books must be made by a diligent 
study of the literature of every department of knowledge, and a wide con- 
sultation with men profoundly acquainted with each. Plans must be 
formed, not merely for the moment, and to meet temporary exigencies; 
but such as are capable of indefinite extension; such as will not require to 
be remodelled even when the library is expanded to its greatest magni- 
tude. 

How much expense, delay, mortification, and complaint might have 
been spared, had the directors of the large libraries of Europe, from the- 
outset, foreseen and provided for the great enlargement of these estab- 
lishments. 

Tlie large public library is, in truth, a modern, a new institution. It 
is only within (he last half century that the uses of such libraries have- 
been fully understood and appreciated, and the method of forming and, 
conducting them studied upon true principles, and with satisfactory re- 
sults. The public libraries of the ancients, and those of later times, 
down nearly to the present century, were, as aids to learning, or means of 
popular progress in knowledge, not to be compared with those of our own 
day. 

Books, as Voltaire has well said, rule the whole civilized world. But 
so rapid has been of late years the muldplication of them, that few 
scholars indeed can procure, by their own private resources, all that they 
need for their investigations. Yet, with the multiplication of books has 
increased the number which it is necessary for every one to consult who 
would not be behind the age in his learning. Hence public libraries have- 
become an indispensable requisite to the attainment of liberal scholarship. 
The books in a public library cannot, however, be so well known to any^ 
particular student as those of his own shelves, nor can they be equally 
accessible to him; for he is not the only one who has a right to them, nor 
is it his convenience alone that is to be consulted. Hence arises the im- 
portance of so arranging, cataloguing, and keeping the library, as to facil- 
itate the researches of each, without prejudice to the claim of any, or to 
the transmission of the privilege unimpaired to others. That the meet- 
ing of all these demands is no light matter^ may be inferred from the fact 
that it has been made the serious study of some of the ablest minds in 
Europe; that its principles have been in Germany so thoroughly dis- 
cussed and reduced to system, as, within the last twenty years, to have 
claimed admission inlo the family of the sciences. 

It was in view of considerations like these, that the plans of the Smith- 
sonian Library were made to embrace the early accumulation of works 
for bibliographical reference on all branches of learning; the collection of 
information respecting existhig libraries of this and of other countries,: 



43 [ 120 ] 

the opening of a correspondence with these hbraries for the interchange 
of opinions, and for mutual aid and encouragement, ns well as the novel 
and important project of forming a central catalogue of all the different 
works to be found in the public, and, as far as practicable, the private 
libraries of the country. 

Nothing of course can fully compensate for the want of books; but 
while we are gathering them slowly, and waiting for the means of more 
rapid accumulation, these plans will, it is behoved, promote the immedi- 
ate usefulness of our institution, and prepare the way for the ami)ler reali- 
zation of our hopes with respect to it in the future. 

Respectfully submitted. 

C. C. JEWETT. 

January 1, 1850. 



I 



[ 120 ] 44 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITU- 
TION, AT THEIR FOURTH ANNUAL SESSION, COMMENCING WEDNESDAY, 
JANUARY 2, ISGO. 

Adjourned meeting of the third annual session of the Board of Regents, 
for the purpose of clectvig a Chancellor. 

March 7, 1849. 

The board met at 10 o'clock a. m., in the Vice President's roonij in 
the Capitol, agreeably to adjournment. 

Mr. Se-iton was called to the chair. 

Present: Messrs. Bache, Davis, Fillmore, Hilliard, Mason, Seaton, and 
Totten. 

The chairman stated the object of the meeting to be to elect a Chan- 
cellor in the place of Mr. Dallas, whose term of office as Regent had ex- 
pired. On the ballot being counted, it appeared that Mr. Fillmore was 
unanimously elected. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was unanimously 

Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary be requested to commu- 
nicate to the Hon. George M. Dallas the high appreciation entertained by 
the board of his services as a Regent — particularly during tlie period 
of the organization of the institution — their thanks for the manner in 
which he has discharged the duties of presiding officer of the institution, 
and their respect for his character as a gentleman and a scholar. 
On motion of Mr. Mason, it was unanimously 

Resolved, That the Secretary inform the President of the Senate that a 
vacanc}'- exists in the Board of Regents by the expiration of the term of 
Mr. Pearce, of the Senate. 

The board then adjourned siiie die. 

FOURTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD. 
Wednesday, January 2, 1850. 

This being the day appointed for the annual meeting of the Regents, 
the board met at half-past twelve o'clock, in the eastern range of the 
Smithsonian building. 

Present: Messrs. Davis, Fillmore, Mason, Rush, Seaton, and Totten. 

Mr. Fillmore, Chancellor of the institution, took the chair. 

The proceedings of the last meeting, held March 7, 1849, were read 
and approved. 

Professor Henry, the Secretary, stated to the board that since the last 
meeting, the Hon. Mr. Pearce, of Maryland, had been appointed a Re- 
gent from the Senate of the United States, and that there were now three 
vacancies in the board to be filled from the House of Representatives. 
The Secretary also stated that his report on the operations of the institu- 
tion was ready to be laid before the board, but as the new members 



45 f 120 ] 

would probably be appointed in a few days, he would suggest that the 
reading of it be deferred until the next meeting. 

Mr. Seaton, chairman of the Executive Committee, stated that this 
meeting occurred too soon after the close of the fiscal year to permit the 
accounts to be made up, and requested that his report be postponed until 
the next meeting. 

General Totten^ chairman of the Building Committee, made a similar 
jequest. 

■No objection being made, the presentation of these reports was deferred 
until the next meeting. 

In answer to a question from the Chair, the Secretary stated, in general 
terms, what business would occupy the attention of the board at this 
session. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, 

The board adjourned, to meet on Friday, llthinst., at 11 o'clock a. m. 

January 11, 1850. 

The Board of Regents met this day, agreeably to adjourrmient, in the 
Smithsonian building. 

The meeting was called to order by Mr. Seaton. The Chancellor being 
absent, on motion of Mr. Seaton, Mr. Pearce was called to the chair. 

The Secretary announced to the board that the Hon. Mr. Hilliard, of 
Alabama, Hon. Mr. Colcock, of Georgia, and Hon. Mr. Fitch, of Indiana, 
had been appointed Regents from the House of Representatives. These 
gentlemen appeared and took their seats at the board. 

The members then present were Messrs. Colcock, Davis, Fillmore, 
Fitch, Hilliard, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Seaton, and Totten. 

The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The report of the Secretary of the institution was presented and read. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be recorded, and form a part 
of the report of the Regents to Congress. 

Mr. Seaton, on behalf of the Executive Committee, presented a report 
on the financial condition of the institution, and stated that the report was 
complete thus far, and that the portion relating to appropriations for the 
ensuing year would be presented at another time. 

Gen. Totten presented the report of the Building Committee. 

On motion of Mr, Pearce, it was ordered that these reports also be 
recorded. 

The Secretary suggested that the journal of the meeting of the cstahlish- 
meni be read. It was accordingly read. 
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the honorary members of the Smithsonian Institution 
be, and are hereby, invited to attend the meetings of the Board of Regents 
[whenever they may think fit; and that the Secretary communicate to the 
jpresent honorary members, and from time to time to such persons as may- 
be elected honorary members, this resolution and invitation of the Board 
of Regents. 

Mr.. Davis presented, by request, a proposition of Mr. Harmon, of Ohio, 
for the encouragement of architecture. 



[ 120 ] 46 

This proposition was, on motion of Mr. Davis, referred to the Secretary 
and Executive Committee. 

Mr. Rush presented a letter from Harrison Hall relative to the purchase 
of books; which was laid on the table. 

The Secretary stated that he had received a note from the Hon. Abbott 
Lawrence, United States ambassador to Great Britain, concerning a 
communication from H. P. Bohn, offering for sale, at the price of thirty 
guineas, a small portrait of James Smithson, now in the possession of Mrs. 
Fitall, widow of a servant of the late Mr. Smithson. 

This communication having been read, 
On motion of Mr. Mason, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to purchase the portrait of 
the late Mr. Smithson, spoken of by Mr. Lawrence in his letter of 10th of 
December, 1849. 

On motion of Mr. Davis, the board adjourned, to meet on Saturday, the 
18lh instant, at 11 o'clock a. m. 

Saturday, January 18, 1850. 

Several of the Regents met tins day, agreeably to adjournment. A 
quorum not being present, the meeting adjourned to the 22d instant. 

Tuesday, January 22, 1850. 

The Board of Regents met, agreeably to adjournment, at half past 6 
o'clock p. m., in the Smithsonian building. 

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, Hilliard, and Pearce. 

The Chancellor called the meeting to order, and the proceedings of the 
last meeting were read and approved. 

The first business in order being Professor Jewett's report on the Libra- 
ry, the same was presented by the Secretary, and ordered to be read: it 
was accordingly read, and ordered to be printed. 

A letter was presented by the Secretary, from Rev. N. Paddock, re- 
questing the co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution with an Educa- 
tional Institution proposed to be established in the city of Washington — 
together with the proposed answer of the Secretary: in which answer the 
board concurred. 

A list of Chinese books for sale, and an accompanying letter from the 
Hon. Caleb Cushing, were laid before the board, read, and referred to the 
Secretary . 

The proposition of Mr. Harmon, of Ohio, relative to architecture, was 
called up: no action, however, was taken upon it, and the board adjourned, 
to meet on Saturday, 26th instant, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

Saturday, January^^S, 1850. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 11 o'clock, agreeably to adjourn- 
ment. 

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Davis, Hiliiard, Mason, and Pearce. 

.The Chancellor took the chair, and the proceedings of the last meeting 
were read. 
^ The Secretary' called the attention of the board to the astronomical ex 



47 [ ]20 ] 

pedition of Lt. Giiliss, and a letter was read from hiin, dated at his station 
near St. Jago, Chili. The information thus placed before the board con- 
cerning the object and progress of the expedition, made apparent the im- 
portance of furnishing Lieut. Gilhss with improved instruments. 

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Mason, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be directed to furnish Lieut. GilHss with 
instruments for facilitating his physical and astronomical observations in 
Chili, at an expense not exceeding one tliousand dollars. 

The consideration of Mr. Harmon's plan for the encouragement of archi- 
tecture was then resumed and discussed; when, on motion of Mr. Hilliard, 
it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to report on the scheme sub- 
mitted by Mr. Harmon for the improvement of architecture, exhibiting 
such features of the scheme as may be found to be within the plan of or- 
ganization adopted for the operations of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The Secretary precsented to the board a Hst of the names of gentlemen 
who had undertaken the labor and responsibility of examining memoirs 
and propositions submitted to the institution. 

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Davis, it was 

Resolved, Tiiai die Secretary be requested to address a letter to each of 
the gentlemen named, and convey to them the thanks of the Board of Re- 
gents for their assistance in carrying on the operations of the institution. 

Mr. Davis presented a communication from Charles B. Wells, esq., 
relative to a series of arcliajoiogical researches made by himself in Peru, 
and requesting the assistance of the institution in their publication, which 
W£^s referred to the Secretary. 

A letter was presented from Daniel Peirce, detailing a method of edu- 
cating the Indian tribes, which was also referred to the Secretary. 

The Secretary called the attention of the board to the engagement ex- 
isting between the institution and Hiram Powers, relative to the purchase 
of his statue of the Greek Slave, which subject was referred to the Secre- 
tary, with the understanding that he would communicate with Mr. Powers, 
or his agent, for the purpose of effecting an alteration in the terms of the 

contract. 

The Secretary made a verbal report, on tlie progress made by Hemy 
Stevens in the compilation of the " Bibliographia Americana." 

He also presented a letter from Pierre Margry, of Paris, requesting tlie 
assistance of the institution to enable him to publish his researches upon the 
history of the ancient French colonies in North America; which letter 
was referred to the Secretary, for a reply, in accordance with the rules 
adopted by the board. 

On motion of Mr. Davis, it was 

Resolved, That the board adjourn, to meet on Saturday next at 10 
■o'clock a. m. 

Whereupon the board adjourned, 

February 2, 1850. 

f* The following gentlemen attended, agreeably to adjournment, viz: 
Messrs. Davis, Fitch, Seaton. 

No quorum being present, the meeting adjourned to the 9th inst., at 10 
o'clock a. m. 



[ 120 ] 48 

February 9^ 1850. 

The Board of Regents met, agreeably to adjournment, at 11 o'clock a. m. 

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, Hilliard, Pearce, and 
Seaton . 

The Chancellor took the chair, and the proceedings of the last meeting 
were read. 

A verbal report on the proposition of Mr. Harmon, of Ohio, for the im- 
provement of architecture in the United States, was made by the Secre- 
tary, accompanied by a synopsis of the plan. He stated that he considered 
jio part of Mr. Harmon's plan to be absolutely at variance with the pro- 
gramme of organization, but he was not clear with regard to its practical 
application, and the propriety of its adoption. It might, however, be sub- 
mitted to the public through the Regents' report to Congress. 

The following is a synopsis of the plan referred to: 

PART FIRST. 

1. Invite architects to send to the institution designs for building. 

2. Refer these to a commission, comprising at least one practical archi- 
tect. 

3. The examiners to select from the number submitted, those of a cer- 
tain degree of merits to be honored v/ith a place in the gallery. 

4. The accepted designs to be re-exccuted, in a uniform and attractive 
style of art, before being placed in the gallery, and undersigned by the 
name of the architect. 

PART SECOXD. 

1. Invite building committees, or others chpj-ged with the erection of 
public buildings, to send to the Smithsonian Institution, specifications, 
limit of cost, and amount of premium offered. 

2. The Secretary 'to advertise, in the usual form, for designs, and to 
refer them to a commission of competent judges, one of whom to be a 
practical architect. 

3. From among the designs submitted, the commissioners to select a 
fev/ of the best and return them to the Building Conmiittee, stating their 
preference, if any. 

4. The plans of extraordinary merit, selected from among the designs 
submitted, shall be entitled to a place in the prize galleiy. 

5. The expense of the commission for making the estimate, and adver- 
tising, shall be paid from a percentage on premiums accompanying the 
specifications. 

6. A person well skilled in practical building to be employed, and the 
designs adopted, to be submitted to him for a correct estimate of the cost. 

This synopsis being considered, the first article of the first part was 
adopted, after being amended by Mr. Davis, to read as follows: 

Resolved, That architects be invited to send in designs for buildings, 
and that notice be given that models of ancient or modern architecture 
•will be received by the Smithsonian Institution, and that such designs or 
models, at the discretion of the Regents, will be placed in the gallery of 
art. 

The second and third articles were struck oui; and, on motion of Mr. 
Fitch, it was 

Resolved, That the fourth article be referred to a committee consisting 
of the Secretary and Mr. Seaton, with instructions to ascertain fioni Mr. 



49 [ 120 ] 

Harmon what is his plan of re-executing the architectural drawings, and 
the probable cost; and that the remainder of the synopsis be laid upon 
the table. 

The Secretary laid before the board the resignation of General J. G. 
Totten as a member of the Building Committee, which was accepted. 

The board proceeded to fdl the vacancy, and Mr, Davis was elected. 

A map of the public grounds west of the Capitol was laid before the 
Regents, and their attention called to the recoumiendation of a general 
plan for improving the mall. 

The Secretary directed the attention of the board to a part of the bull 1- 
ing contract wiiich required elucidation, and requested tliat thny would 
express their opinion as to the sum to be paid annually to the contractor; 
whereupon the following preamble and resolution, otfcred by Mr. Fillmore, 
(Mr. Pearce being in the chair,) were adopted: 

The Board of Regents having examined the building contract, for tl>e 
purpose of determining its true construction: 

Resolved, That, in the opinion of this board, the contractor is only enti- 
tled, in each year, to forty-one thousand dollars for v/ork done during that 
year, deducting therefrom '\o per cent., which is to be paid him at the end 
of the five years, with 6 per cent, interest. 

The Secretary presented a report from Professor C. C. Jewett, on the 
subject of copyrig]tt, which was referred to a committee consisting of 
Messrs. Davis, Mason, and Pearce. 

The board then adjourned to the 23d instant, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

February 23, 1850. 

The Board of Regents met this day. 
Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Bache, Fitch, and Seaton. 
A quorum not being present, it was agreed to adjourn to Saturday, 
March 2, 1S50. 

March 2, 1S50. 

The Board of Regents met this morning at 10 oVlock, in the Smitli- 

sonian building. 

Present: Messrs. Bache, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, Hilliard, Mason, Pearce, 

and Seaton. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Seaton was called to the chau". 

The proceedings of the last meeting being read, the committee an 
Mr. Harmon's pUuis of architectural drawings made a report, which was 

read and adopted . . r ,,-■,■•. r 

Mr. Davis moved that the further consideration of the lourth article ol 
Mr. Harmon's synopsis be indefinitely postponed, which was carried. 
Mr. Davis then offered the following resolution, which was adoptetl: 
Resolmd, That, although the board do not deem it expedient to adopt 
Mr. Harmon's plan of executing architectural drawings; yet, for the pur- 
pose of placing in the institution a specimen of a peculiar art of drawing 
architectural designs, the Executive Committee be authorized to engage 
Mr, Harmon to execute the elevation of the Smithsonian Institution m 
his peculiar style, with a view to placing it in the instilunon, if the Re- 
gents shall, upon examination, approve of w disp(ising of it. 
Mis.— 4 



[ 120 ] 50 

The Secretaiy brought before the board the subject of an accident 
which had happened since the last meeting, in the unfinished part of the 
building. He stated that, at about 6 o'clock p. m., on Tuesday, ths 
26th ult., a portion of the interior framing and floors of part of the niain 
building, ii'.tended to contain the museum of apparatus, fell down into the 
basement. He had himself just before left the ground; but as soon as he 
heard of the occurrence he returned to the building, and after ascertain- 
ing the cliaracter of the accident, he addressed a letter to the architect, m 
New York, requiring his immediate attendance. He next gave directions 
that the part of the building containing the fallen timbers should be closed, 
and that everything should remain in the same condition until the arrival 
of the architect. Mr. Kenwick reached Washington on Thursday morn- 
ing, February 28. Immediately afterwards, a meeting of the Building 
Committee was called, at which the state of the work was examined, 
and a request made that the architect, superintendent, and contractor 
should each furnish a report on the cause of the accident. 

These reports were presented to the board, and the following resolution, 
offered by Mr. Fitch, was adopted: 

Resolved, That the Building Committee be requested to take under 
consideration the reports of the architect, superintendent, and contractor, 
on the subject of the late accident; that they associate with them Profes- 
sor Bache, General Totten, the Secretary of the institution, and some 
competent and entirely impartial nrchitect or architects; that they make a 
survey of the whole building, report the manner, faithfulness, and se- 
curity in which the building contract has hitherto been esecuted, and 
upon the plan most proper in their estimation to repair the damages and 
finish that portion of the building in which the accident happened, and 
other unfinished portions thereof. 

The board then adjourned, to meet again at the call of the Secretary, 

April 20, 1S50. 

The Board of Regents held a meeting this day, at the call of the Sec- 
retary, at 10 o'clock a, m., in the Vice President's room at the Capitol. 

Present: Messrs. Bache, Davis, Fillmore, Fitch, Mason, and Seaton. 

The Chancellor being in the chair, the proceedings of the last meeting 
were read. 

The Secretary made a communication from Mr. Harmon, in v/hich he 
requested to substitute a view of another building Iot that of the Smithso- 
nian Institution in making the drawing, in his style, for the gallery of art. 

On motion of Mr. Davis, t!ie subject was laid on the table. 

The committee, on the part of the Regents, cliarged with the examina- 
tion of the building, consisting of the Building Committee, together with 
Messrs. Bache, Totten, and the Secretary, made a report, including the 
report of the commission of architects appointed to examine the building; 
also the remarks of James Renwick, jr.-, architect, upon the same. 
On motion of jlr. Fitch, 

Resolved^ That the report of the committee on the building, and the ac- 
companying documents, be recommitted Ibr such further action as may be 
deemed necessary. Also, 

Resolved, That the Building Committee be directed to take legal advice 
as to the power possessed by the Regents, under the contract, and the 



61 [ 120 ] 



tonrse to be pursued should it be found necessary to declare it void; and 
that notice thereof be given to the contractor. 
On motion of Mr. Bache, 

Resolved, That the thani\s of the Board of Regents be transmitted to 
Hon. E. G. Squier, esq., United States charge d'affaires at Guatemela, for 
ibe gift of aboriginal relics recently made by him to the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. 

On motion, the board adjourned, to m.eet at the call of the Secretary. 

JuxE 1, 1850. 

The Board of Regents met this day, at the call of the Secretary, at 11 
o'clock a. m., in the Smithsonian building. 

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Pitch, Hilliard, Pearce, Seaton,and Totten. 

The Chancellor took the chair, and the proceedings of the last meeting 
%vere read. 

The Secretary laid before the board a proposition from Francis Markoo, 
-esq., relative to the deposite in the Smithsonian building of his cabinet 
of minerals, with a view to their future purchase. 

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Colcock, it Avas 

Resolved, That the board decline the proposition of accepting the de- 
posite with the view to a future purchase. 

The Secretary stated that the portrait of Smithson, which was ordered 

to be purchased at a previous meeting, had been received from Eiigland; 

and also, that five volumes of an Encyclopedia, formerly the property of 

James Smithson, had been purchased through the Hon. Abbott Lawrence. 

On motion of Mr. Davis, it was 

Resolved, That the thanks of the board be returned to the Hon. Abbott 
Lawrence, for the attention he has given to the interests of the institution 
abroad. 

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary and chairman of tlie Executive Committee 
be appointed a committee, whose duty it sliali be to report a system of 
keeping and disbursing the funds of the institution. 

The Secretary next brought before the board a proposition to ask Con- 
gress to receive from the institute $150,000, to be funded as an irre- 
deemable 6 per cent, stock, to be added to tlie principal of the Smithso- 
iiian bequest. 

'J'he following resolutions in reference to tliis, otfered by Mr. Seaton, 
were adopted: 

Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary be authorized to sell 
$200,000 of stock of accrued interest, or any part thereof, not less than 
$150,000, the proceeds to be deposited to the credit of the Chancellor and 
Secretary, subject to be drawn at any time, with Corcoran & Riggs> pt 
not less than 4 per cent., provided they shall give security therefor, in 
United States stock. 

Resolved, That whatever the premium on the above stock, when sold, 
shall amount to, it be deposited, subject to be drawn for the current ex- 
penses of the institution, on requisition in the usual form. 

Resolved, That it is expedient to enlarge the permanent fund of this 
institution, by the investment of such sums, not exceeding §200,000, as 
may have been or shall be received for accrued interests; or otherwise, in 



[ 120 ] 52 

addition to the principal sura of the Smithsonian bequest, augmenting 
the principal sum to that amount; and that application be made to Con- 
gress to receive such sums, not exceeding $200,000, as may have been 
or shall be received for accrued interest, or otherwise, into the United 
States treasury, upon the same terms on which the original bequest has 
been received. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, 

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to communicate a copy of 
this resolution to Congress, and to request that provision be made by law- 
in accordance therewith . 

Th.e Secretary next brought forward the subject of the contract for the 
building. The letter of J. M, Carlisle, esq., the counsel employed to 
give an opinion of it, was read. 

On motion of General Totten, it was 

Resolved, That the committee on the buildinar be authorized to negoti- 
ate a compronuse with the contractor relative to the defective work and 
materials in the Smithsonian building, and also with regard to a modifi- 
cation of the contract, subject to the approval of the Board of Regents at 
their next meeting. 

The Secretary laid before the board a volume of magnetical and mete- 
orological observations, made at Toronto, Canada, and presented to the 
institution by the British government. The board being informed that 
the duration of the Toronto Observatory is limited by law, on motion of 
Mr. Seaton, it was 

Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary be requested to acknowl- 
edge the recei])t of the volume, with the expre?sion of the hope of this 
board that Her Majesty's government may find it expedient to continue 
an institution of snch utility to science. 

On motion, the" board adjourned, to meet at the call of the Secretary. 

July 3, 1850. 

The board met this day, at the call of the Secretarj^, in the Smithsonian 
building, at 9 a. m. 

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Colcock, T3avis, Fitch, Hilliard, Mason, 
and Pearce. 

The Chancellor took the chair. 

Mr. Lenox, elected mayor of Washington, and ex-ofhcio Regent of 
the Smithsonian Institution, appeared and took his seat. 

The journal of proceedings of the last meeting was read and approved. 

The Secretary presented the final report of the committee charged with 
the examination of the building, which was read as follows: 

Final report of the Commiitce of tlie Regents charged icith the caramin- 

atioti of the building. 

Under the resolutions of March 2 and of April 20, 18.50, offered by Mr. 
Fitch, and also the resolution of June 1, 1850, offered by General Totten, 
the committee charged with examinations relative to the building submit 
the following report: 

In accordance with the first resolution of Mr. Fitch, the committee as- 
sociated with themselves three disinterested architects, viz: Col. Wil- 



m [ 120 ] 

fiam Tunibull, of the United States tnpogrnphical engineers; Edward 
B. White, esq., of Charleston, Sonth Carolina; and John R. Niernsee, 
€sq., of IJaltiniore, Maryland. These gentlemen were higlily recommended 
as practical arcliitects and engineers, of established reputation, and the 
committee have full confidence in their experience, judgment and integrity. 

The committee are indebted to the Hon. Alexander Evans, of Mary- 
land, for an examination of the building, with reference to a comparison 
of the different reports; and to Mr. Joel Downer, for an additional inspec- 
tion and opinion as to the character of the timber and wood-work. In 
accordance with the second resolution of Mr. Fitch, they hav^e also taken 
legal advice as to several points of the contract. 

After a careful study of the reports of the contractor, superintendent, Mr. 
Renwick, the commission of architects, and of Mr. Evans, also the written 
opinion of their legal adviser, the committee have unaniinou.sly arrived at 
the following conclusions, which they respectfidly submit for the con- 
sideration and action of the board. 

1. That the workmanship of the cut-stone of the exterior is good, and 
the masonry generally, though in some respects not of the best quality, is 
of a passable character with reference to the terms of the contract. 

2. That the interior of the main building is defective in the kind of 
materials originally adopted, and to a considerable degree in the quality 
of the materials employed. These consist principally of wood, and are 
«ot of a proper character for a building intended to contain valuable de- 
posites, many of which will be donations to the institution, presented with 
the impRed condition that they are to be properly secured against danger 
from fire. This mode of construction was probably adopted by the origi- 
nal Building Committee, in order to lessen the coat of the edifice, and to 
bring it within the sum appropriated by the board. 

3. Although the committee are anxious to save the accrued interest, 
and to devote it to objects more in accordance with the spirit of the be- 
quest than the erection of a costly building; yet, they would recommend 
that the interior work of the centre building, as now existing, be removed, 
and that there be substituted for it a fire-proof structure, in accordance 
with the plan reeommended in the reports of Mr. Renwick and of the 
commission of architects. 

4. The completion of the building on this plan, according to the esti- 
mate of the cominission, requires an additional outlay of about $44,000. 
To meet this additional expense, the committee reconmiend the adoption 
>of the suggestion of their chairman, Col. Davis, that the exterior of die 
l)uilding and the interior of the towers be completed in accordance with 
the plan, and within the time specified by the contract, and that the re- 
mainder of the interior be finisiied agreeably to the new plan, in the course 
of a nusiiber of years, and in such portions as can be paid for out of the 
annual interest of the Stnithsouian fund, not otherwise appropriated. The 
object of tliis part of the proposition is to prevent the derangement of the 
plan of fenance ori,«inalw proposed by Dr. Bache, and adopted by the 
Board of Regents., viz: of saving out of the accrued and accrning mter- 
est, after paying for the buildiHg, the sum of .^^150,000, to be added to 
the principal. 

5. By the addendum to the contract, the Regents have the power of 
stopping the building at any stage of its progress, on paying the contract- 
fir Jrora^a for the work done, according to the prices specified m the con- 



[ 120 ] o4 

tract, and allowing for reasonable damages, if the circumstances require 
the payment of them. The estimates in this case are to be made by the 
architect of the institution, or other architects selected by t!ie Regents, 
But with reference to the quality of the work which has been done, it is 
tlie opinion of tlie legal adviser of the committee that tlie decision of the 
architect of the building is final, both with regard to the Regents and the 
contractor. 

G. In accordance with the forementioned stipulations of the contract^ 
thecommittee have requested Mr. Renwick to furnish an estimate jurora^.r 
for completing the whole exterior of the building, and the interior of the 
towers, making deductions for materials and workmanship which he would 
have condemned, had the building been completed according to the ori- 
ginal plan. The following is the decision of the architect, which has beei>; 
agreed to by the contractor, with the understanding that nothing is to be 
paid him on account of profit on work omitted by the proposed change,, 
viz: 

For finishing the whole exterior of the building, all the inte- 
rior rooms of the towers and of the wings, the sum of - $185,154 

7. The committee recommend to the Board of Regents that they agree 
to this proposition, and that a resolution be adopted directing the contract- 
or to proceed with the work in accordance therewith. In recommending 
this course to the board, the committee act in conformity with the advice 
of two of tlie commission of architects, viz: Mr. E. B. White and Mr. 
J. R. Niernsee, v/ho undertook the examination in detail of the. parts of 
the building, and gave an estimate as the basis of an equitable settlement. 

8. By adopting the above sum of $185,154, as the amount to be paid 
to the contractor, Mr. Renwick gives the followiiig estimate of the cost of 
finishing the building in accordance with the fire-proof plan^ viz: 

Amount of proposed contract . _ . . ^185,154 

Expense of fire-proofing the centre building according to plans 

and estimates of the architects .... 44^000 

Plastering centre building, "^ t f $8,000 

Gallery fronts, ! Expenses' common j 2,000 

Staircase of liibrary and Museum, j to both plans. ^ 425 
Furniture of do. do. J • l^ 4,700 

15,125 

Extra cartage - - - • ^ • - 20<> 

Materials now on the ground, but which may not be used - 1,000 



Total expense of the building, including fire proofing - - 245,479 



9. The original contract, with the addition made to it by direc 

tion of the Building Committee, is - - - $209,810 

Add the estimate of fire-nroofing . . - . 44,000 



Thus we have for the cost of the building, according to the es- 
timate of the commission . . - . . 253,810 



ISoTK. — I'lie foregoirg estimates are exclusive of the salaries of the arch'tect and super- 
intciiUeist; also of llie ccstof the improvemeiu of the grouuda and part of ihe furiiiiuie. 



55 [ 120 ] 

This last sum is greater than tlie preceding, by ^8,331. The differ- 
ence, according to tlie statement of JNIr. Renwick, is due to the various de- 
ductions he has made on account of defective materials, imperfect work- 
manship, and changes in the plan. 

In conclusion, the committee are fully of opinion — and in this they are 
sustained by the commission of architects — that, by adopting the plan of 
fire-proofing proposed by Mr, Renwick, and the proposition of the con- 
tractor, the building will l)e rendered safe and durable, at a very reason- 
able cost, considering the amount of work which has been bestowed 
upon it. 

The committer do not consider it necessary to offer any remarks on the 
cause of the accident which led to these investigations. If these recom- 
mendations be adopted, the whole structure of the interior of the main 
building, in which the accident occurred, will be exchanged for one 
more ni accordance with the permanence and utility of the edifice; and in 
this case they will consider the accident as a fortunate event. 
All of which is respectfully submitted. 

JEFFERSON DAYIS, Chairman. 

W. W. SEATON. 

H. W. MILLIARD, 

JOS. G. TOTTEN. 

ALEX. D. BACHE. 

JOSEPH HENRY. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was 

Resolved, That the report of the committee of the Board of Regents 
charged with the examination of the building, presented this day, be ac- 
cepted; and that the Building Committee be directed to proceed with the 
work, in accordance with the reconnnendation thereof. 

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Davis and amended by Mr. 
Fitch, was adopted: 

Resolved, That the Executix^e Committee be authorized to advance to 
the contractor within the year ending 19ih March, 1851, in addition to 
the sum which he is now allowed to expend upon the building within the 
aforesaid year, the sum of |il7,980, in proportion to work done in addition 
to what Yi'-ould otherwise have been done, and on condition of his paying 
interest at the rate of six per cent, per annum upon the said advance from 
tlie time at which he receives it to March 19, 185L 

The committee, consistingof the Secretary and chairman of the Execu- 
tive Conmiittee,towhom was referred a resolution directing them to report 
a system of keeping and disbursing the moneys of the institution, reported 
the following resolutions; which were read, and on motion adopted: 

Resolved, That the Secretary- be authorized to appoint an assistant, to 
act as treasurer, to take charge of the funds for the current expenses of 
the institution, who shall give security for the safekeeping of all money 
belonging to the institution which shall come into his possession: 

That the fuiids before mentioned be depsited, until otherwise ordered, 
with Messrs. Corcoran and Kiggs, to the credit of the treasurer ol the 
institution: 

That all bills presented for payment shall be audited and certified by 
the Secretary, on whose order the treasurer shall pay them: 



[ 120 ] 56 

That the treasurer report to the Secretary, monthly, all payments made 
by him during the preceding month: 

That all the monthly accounts be examined and ceriified by the Execu- 
tive Committee quarterly. 

That the acc^ount-books be kept in the Smithsonian building, so that 
the Secretary and Executive Conmiittee may have ready access to them. 

The Secretaiy then nominated Mr. Seaton as a suitable person to per- 
form the duties of treasurer, and the nomination was unanimously con- 
iirmed by the board. 

The Secretary stated to the board that Mr. Seaton would accept the office 
of treasurer, but would not consent to receive any compensation for his 
services. 

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Mason, was unanimously 
adopted: 

Hesolved, That the thanks of the board be, and they are hereby, tendered 
to the Hon. W. W. Seaton, late mayor of the city of Washington and ex- 
olficio Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, tor his able and valuable 
services as a member of the board, now terminated by the expiration of 
his term of office as mayor of Washington. 

On motion, tlie board adjourned, to meet on Friday morning, 5th instant,, 
at 9a, m. 

July 5, 1850. 

The Board of Regents held a meeting this day, at 9 a. m,, in the east 
wing of the Smithsonian building. 

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, and Lenox. 

The Secretary stated that vacancies in two committees of the board were 
occasioned by the retirement of Mr. Seaton; whereupon, on motion of Mr. 
Fitch, it was 

Resolved, That General Totten be appointed a member of the Executive 
Committee. 

Also, on motion of Mr. Davis, it was 

Resolved, That Mr, Lenox be appointed a member of the Baildingr 
Committee, 

The Secretary stated that, in order to the development of the plans of 
the institution, it v\^as necessary that additional assistants should be ap- 
pointed. With the officers nowengaged, little more could be done than to 
attend to the general correspondence, wliich now extends to every part of 
the world, and tire details of business, which have been continually 
increasing. The labor of reading manuscripts and attending to the press, 
would almost occupy the time of one individual. He therefore requested 
that he be allowed to appoint an assistant secretary in the department of 
natural history, to take charge of the museum and aid in the publica- 
tions, tfec. 

On motion of Mr Davis, it was 

Resolved, That tlie Secretary be authorized to appoint an assistant sec- 
retary in the department of natural history, to take charge of the museum,, 
and to render such other assistance as the Secretary may require, at a 
salary of fitteen hundred dollars per annum. 

The Secretary thereupon appointed Professor Spencer F, Baird 
the foregoing resolution; and, on motion, the board approved *' 
ment. 



57 • [ 120 ] 

The Secretary then stated that Dr. Edward Foreman had been engaged 
during the past year as a general assistant; that he had been elected pro- 
lessor of chemistry in the National Medical College of this city, the duties 
of which, however, did not materially interfere with his labors in the 
Smithsonian Institution; and the Secretary requested that his connexion 
with the institution might be placed on a more permanent basis. 

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Fitch, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to appoint a general assist- 
ant, at a salary of twelve hundred dollars per annum. 

The Secretary thereupon, under the foregoing resolution, appointed 
Dr. Edward Foreman; and, on motion, the board approved the appoint- 
ment. 

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Colcock, was adopted: 

Resolved, That a sum not exceeding twenty thousand dollars be appro- 
priated for the current expenses of this year; the objects of the expendi- 
ture to be those designated in the programme of the institution; and the 
allowance to each to be fixed by theExecutiv^e Committee. 

The Secretary presented to the board a plan, by Professor Jewett, fiir 
stereotyping or electrotyping catalogues of libraries^ by titles, in a uniform 
style, and of forming a general stereotype catalogue of the public libraries 
of the United States. The Secretary stated that this was a proposition 
which appeared to him of great importance in carrying out the objects of 
the institution, and in rendering available the aids to literary labor now 
in our country. He suggested that the proper course would be to refer 
it to the Secretary and Executive Committee, to be referred by them to a 
commission of literary gentlemen for examination. 

On motion, the subject was referred to the Secretary and Executive 
Committee. 

On motion, the board adjourned, to meet again at the call of the Secre- 
tary. 

Meeting of the EstaUishment of the Smithsonian Institution, 

Since the adjournment of the board, a meeting of the establishment, or 
of the Smithsonian Institution proper, was called by order of the President 
of the United States, and in comphance with the suggestion of the Board 
of Regents. The principal object of the meeting was the election of a 
number of honorary members. The following is a copy of the record of 
this meeting: 

August 1, 1S49. 
A meeting of the establishment of the Smithsonian Institution was held 
this day, at 5 o'clock p. m., in the eastern range of the Smithsonian 

buildino;. 

Present: Zachary Taylor, President of the United States, and ex ojjicio 
President of the institution. 
John M. Clayton, Secretary of State. 
Wm. M. Zvleredith, Secretary of the Treasury. 
Jacob Collamer, Postmaster General. 
Thomas Ewbank, Commissioner of Patents. 
W. W. Seaton, mayor of Washington. 
Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



[ 120 ] 58 

The President took tlie chair. 

This being the first meeting of the estabh'shment, the Secretary gave 
an account of the institution, of the plan of organization adopted by the 
Board of Regents, and of the progress made in carrying the several parts 
into operation. 

The chairman of the Executive Committee gave to the meeting an ac- 
count of the disbursements of the institution and the state of its funds. 

The following gentlemen having been reconnriended by the Regents 
and officers of the Institution, and being dnly considered by this meeting, 
were, on motion of Mr. Meredith, unannnously elected honorary members 
of the Smithsonian Institution, viz: 

Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia. 

Albert Gallatin, of New York. 

J)r. Benjamin Silliman, of Connecticut. 

Washington Irving, of New York. 

On motion of Mr. Clayton, it was 

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to draught and re- 
port by-laws and regulations for the future meetings of the establishment. 

Whereupon, the l^resident appointed Mr. Clayton, Mr. Meredith, and 
Mr. Seaton, the committee. 

On motion of Mr. CoUamer, the Secretary of the institution was added 
to the said committee. 

On motion, the meeting then adjourned, to meet again on the call of 
the President. 



Letters have been received from the gentlenien elected, signifying their 
acceptance of the appointment, acknowledging the honor conferred upon 
them, and stating their willingness to assist in advancing the objects 
of the institution. 

Since the meeting, one of the distinguished gentlemen chosen as hon- 
orary members of the institution has departed this life, full of years and 
honor — namely, the Hon. Albert Gallatin — distinguished for his attain- 
ments in several branches of science, and his additions to the sum of 
human knowledge. He took a lively interest in the establishment of this 
institution, and was particularly active in furthering the publication of the 
first volume of its Contributions. Though we lament his departure, it is 
a matter of satisfaction that he lived to receive the testimony of tiie 
highest honor which the Smithsonian Institution could bestow upon his 
worth. 



RETORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsoman Institution : 

The Executive Committee submit to the board the following report of 
the expenditures, slate of finance, &c.,of the Smithsonian Institution: 



% 59 [ 120 ] 

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the United 
States treasury was ,^515,109. The interest which had accrued on the 
same up to July L, 1S4G, was 1^242,129, making in all §757,298. 

The Regents were audiorized to expend on the buihling the ij;242,129 
Wliich had accrued in interest, together with such portions of interest on 
the original bequest as might remain unexpended in any year. They 
concluded, however, to limit the whole expenditure on the building and 
tlie grounds to a sum not exceeding .<^--250,000; and, in order tliat this 
might not exhaust the accrued interest, it was resolved that this expendi- 
ture should not be made at once, but in the course of five years, and that 
in the mean time the sum of $5242,000, authorized to be expended on the 
building, should be invested so as to yield an interest which might in part 
serve to defray the expense of the building. To carry out this plan, the 
$242,000, with the addition of accrued interest sufficient to make up the 
sum of $2.50,000, were invested in treasury notes; and in order that the in- 
stitution might not be a loser by a possible depreciation of these notes, tiie 
contracts for the building were made payable in them at par value or in 
specie, at the option of the Regents. Up to this time, only $50,000 of 
these notes have been disposed of. They have thus been made to yield a 
constant interest, besides increasing in value on account of the rise in gov- 
ernment securities. The whole expenditure since the commencement of 
operations to the present time, is ,^199, 157 21; the whole of which has 
been made from the accruing interest on the fund and the sale of 1,50,000 
of notes above mentioned. 

The f )llowing is a synopsis of the present state of the finances of the 
institution : 

Amount of Smithson's bequest - - - - |?515,169 00 

Interest due thereon to July 1, 1846 - - - 242,129 00 

757,298 00 



Balance on hand Jarmary 1, 1850 - - - - $8,277 35 

Treasury notes funded 200,000 00 

Permanent fund ....-- 515,109 00 

Present rate of United States loan, 112 per cent.; there- 

fbre add 24,000 00 



747,446 35 
From this should be deducted, for accounts not rendered - 6,000 00 



741,446 35 



The whole amount paid on the building and grounds up to this time 
is $134,876 21. 

From this it appears that, after paying for more than one-half of the build- 
ing, carrying on the operations of the institution, collecting a library and 
philosophical apparatus, the sum originally intrusted to the Regents has 
only been diminished by less than §16,000. The object of this scheme 
of finance is to increase the original fund, which, though sufficient to 
establish a library and a museum, is found inadequate to meet the 
demands which result from the comprehensive plan of organization 
wliich has been adopted. The result lias thus far been so successful, 



[ 120 ] . 60 

r 

that there can now be no doubt that, if the same plan be continued until the 
end of the five years, and the funds do not greatly depreciate, there will 
remain the sum of ."?>li"0,000 in accrued interest to add to the principal. 
To secure this desirable end without the possibihty of failure, it may be 
now advisable to petition Congress to receive from ihe^Regents the sum 
of $150,000, and place it with the original principal sum, nev^er to be ex- 
pended, and to complete the building out of the remaining funded notes 
and the accruing interest. 

W. W. SEATON, 
ALEXANHER D. BACHE, 
JAS. ALFRED PEAROE. 



REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMVTITTEE. 

Washington, January 2, 1S50. 

The Building Committee have the honor to report as follows: 

In the great desire of the contractor to get the whole Smithsonian build- 
ing under roof before winter, the progress thereon during the year just 
elapsed has been rapid — that object having been fully attained before the 
occurrence of severe weather. The Building Committee deemed this re- 
suit so important for the protection of a large amount of masonry and wood 
work, that they participated in tliis desire of the contractor; and did not 
hesitate to permit an expenditure on the building somewhat larger than 
the year would have been entitled to under the project of extending the 
process of construction through a period of five years. It must not, how- 
ever, be supposed that the expenditures have exceeded the portion of the 
building fund liable to expenditure under existing resolutions. The por- 
tion of this fund thus liable up to the 19th of Marcli next, reckoning from 
the beginning, is $146,000; the aggregate expenditure on building and 
grounds now falls short of that sum $10,678 S3 — which last sum must 
therefore be the limit of expenditure in the interim — that is to say, from 
the 1st of .January to the 19th March, 1850. 

Should tlie Board of Regents leave the project of a five-years course of 
construction undisturbed, it will be necessary to lessen, for the next two 
years, the rate of expenditure on the building. On tlie other hand, 
should circumstances lead the board to desire an earlier completion ilma 
has heretofore been contemplated, the advanced state of die building re- 
sulting from the labors of the past year "will be in lucky accordance with 
such change of policy. 

Besides carrying up the walls of the main cell of the building, and fin- 
ishing its roof, the central front tov/ers and the four corner towers of the 
main building are carried up as high as the v^'aUs of the main building — 
the central rear tower being 30 feet high. 

The architect reports that the stones for the unfinished portions of the 
building are nearly all quarried; and that the stone-cutting for the cam- 
panile south, and two north towers, is nearly completed. 

The east and west v/ings, and ranges, are finished, except some few 
matters of detail, and are ready for occupation. The workmen are now 
fitting the west wing with bookcases, for a temporary library; and the 
west connecting range, for uses connected with the library. 

During the past year, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the in- 
stitution^ and under the advice of the architect, the committee have 



•61 [ 120 ] 

caused the following alterations to be made in the interior arrangement of 
the building: 

The original lecture-room, in the east wing, proving to be entirely too 
small, tlie adjoining apparatus and laboratory rooms were removed, and 
the whole wing formed into one large lecture-room, j^rovided with seats 
for one thousand persons. By this arrangement, the apparatus rooms in 
the east connecting range are in close proximity M'ith the lecturer's table; 
with which, also, direct and easy connnunicalion will be had from the 
large apparatus museum mentioned in the sequel. 

This lecture-room, thus enlarged, being capable of containing as many 
persons as the lecture-room which was originally designed to occupy about 
half the lower story of the main building, the latter has been dispensed 
with, and the space thus obtained divided — giving a room of 05x50 feet 
as a depository of physical apparatus, and throwing the remaining space 
mto the library. 

Besides a manifest gain of useful room by this alteration, it tends to 
security against fire — since the lecture-room, and the researches and ex- 
periments connected with it, will be in a separate wing, easily cut off from 
all the other parts of the structure, by fire-proof doors of iron. 

Another change of internal arrangement is as follows: The two stair- 
ways, that in the original plan were carried up between the middle north 
front towers and the main building, have been dispensed with, and the 
space they occupied added to the library; as also the central hall; and, as 
before said, a portion of the former lecture-room. By these several altera- 
tions, the library has been nearly doubled in area, aiid a spacious museum 
obtained for physical apparatus. The central staircase of the north front 
will now be carried up within one of the front toAvers. 

The changes above mentioned in the interior of the building will be 
accomplished, on agreement with the contractor, at an extra cost of $100. 

It must be considered, however, that the large addition to the library 
room will require a large addition to the library equipment and furniture. 
But as it must be many years before the contents of the library can spT^ad 
beyond its limits, as first planned, and provided for in the contract, the 
committee would consider it unwise now to incur any portion of this con- 
siderable expense. 

A clere story to the long upper room, or museum, oftlie centre building, 
has been adopted by tlie committee. The architect states that this was 
originally contemplated by him, and was explained at the time the con- 
tract was made. The committee understand that the adoption of the re- 
commendation was left to further consideration. They were satisfied, 
however, that it was a necessary modification; the great length of this 
room— nearly 200 feet— being out of all proportion to the low pitch of 27 
feet, originally contracted for. The additional amount for which Mr. 
Cameron, the contractor, engages to carry out this improvement, is ^2,350. 

No other alterations have been made in the building, and the commit- 
tee think no others will be needed: none, at least, that will involve much 
expense. 

The arrangement of the west wing and range for a temporary library 
and reading-room, has entailed an expense of P72, which should prop- 
erly, perhaps, be charged to the library fund. It has, however, been 
comprised in the following statement of expenditures: 



[ 120 ] . 



62 



The total amount expended on the building, and on the 
fencing of the lot, including superintendence and all in- 
cidental expenses connected therewith^ up to 1st Decem- 
ber, 1847, was, a^ then stated - . . . 

The amount expended on the building and its appurte- 
nances, from the 1st of December, 1847, to the 3 1st of 
December, 1848, was, as stated in the last arniual report. 

Total expended on the building, &c., up to the 31st De- 
cember, 1848 .-.-,. 

The expenditures on the building and its appurtenances 
during the year 1849 have been as follows: 

Paid Mr. Cameron, contractor for the building, ,^50, 300 00 



Paid Mr. Renwick, arcliitect, as salary 
Paid Mr. Renwick for travelling expenses 
Paid Mr. Renwick for expenses of architect's 
oflice, including incidental expenses of the 
same, stationery, pay of draughtsman, &c.. 
Paid Mr. Brown, as superintendent, one 
year's salary . . . . 

Paid Messrs. Culver & Co. for three furnaces, 
Paid Mr. Barrows for one furnace 
Paid Mr. Cassiday for three scrapers - 
Paid Mr. Beckert for recoloring east wing 
Paid Mr. Buckingham for plumbing - 
For additional furniture of library, - $60 47 
'' " " 50 75 

25 00 
176 25 
319 62 

Paid also for temporary library furni- 
ture - - - - 372 00 



a 


i( 


(.1 


a 


u 


a 


i( 


C( 


a 



Paid Mr. Cameron for extra work on 
Do do do 



building 



21 50 
31 62 



Paid Mr. Cameron for coal 
For improvement of grounds — 
Mr. Douglass for trees, (fcc. 
Mr. S. Biyan for plank road 
Mr. Cameron, for road-ma- 



- 520 00 

- 62 00 



king 



(( 



(( 



45 

56 



43 
12 



101 55 



Paid for hack-hire for Building Committee 



1,800 00 
266 15 



268 25 



750 00 


786 


11 


349 


52 


3 


75 


50 


00 


12 


00 



1.004 09 



53 12 

39 72 



683 
17 



50 



5,002 67 



53,934 74 



78,937 41 



56,383 76 78,937 41 



63 [ 120 ] 

Amount e.^pended on (he building and its appurtenances up 

to the 3 1 St December, 1818 .... ,f; 78, 937 41 

Amount expended on the same durmg the year 1819 - 56, 383 76 



Total amount expended on the same up to the end of the 

year 1849 - - - - - - 135,321 17 



At the annual meeting in December, 1847, it 
Avas resolved that there should be considered 
applicable to the building and grounds (in- 
cluding preceding expenditures) up to the 
19th day of March, 1848, the sum of - !$-12,000 00 

And for the year ending March 19, 1849, the 

further sum of .... 52,00000 

And for the year ending March 19, 1850, the . 

fiuther sum of - - - - 52, 000 00 

^146, 000 03 

But, as shown above, the total expenditures to the end of 

1849 has been 135,32117 



Leaving, of the building fund, a balance appUcable between 

the 1st of January and 19th of March, 1850, of - - 10, 678 83 

The furnaces that have been set up in the building for heating the 
rooms have not proved satisfactory to the architect, nor to the persons 
who have occupied some of the rooms. He reports that they do not dif- 
fuse the heat equally throughout the rooms — tliat while some apartments 
are highly heated, others cannot be made comfortably warm; owing, as 
he thinks, to the difficulty in conveying the heated air horizontally. He 
also objects to the number of fires which are necessary in the use of 
furnaces, and has advised that the other portions of the building should 
be warmed with steam. The committee have requested the architect to 
obtain full and definite information of all circumstances involved in the 
use of steam as suggested by him, and to furnish a report such as will 
enable a judgment to be formed of its adaptation to our purposes, and of 
its relative cost. The Secretary of the institution is also engaged in some 
inquiries of the same nature. 

The work entitled "Hints on Public Architecture," authorized to be 
published by the Building Connnittee; has been issued, and is submitted 
to the inspection of the Regents. 

The amount expended being somewhat beyond the amount appropri-. 
ated by the Board of Regents, the committee requested an explanation 
from the Hon. R. D. Owen, who had superintended the pnbUcation of the 
work. That gentleman states that the landscapes of the lithographs at first 
executed Avere so badly done as to be unfit for the press; and tbat though 
the lithographer who engraved the building was the only one whoAvould 
undertake the architectural portion, he did not prove suificiently experi- 
enced in landscape drawing, to render that part of the plates euher 
artistical or effective— this portion was, therefore, re-drawn by another 
lithographer, at an additional expense of $80: that the remamder of the 
additional expense was incurred by the necessity of altermg the size and 
form of many of the wood-cutS; in order to enable them to come properly 






[ 120 ] 64 

into the letter- press; that this was an unforeseen expense, and could not 
have been ascertained before the M'ork was about being set up in the print- 
ing office: that he was compelled to make the alterations in the cuts, or to 
destroy the beauty of t!ie page.s of the book. These additions to the cost 
of the work having materially enhanced its beauty, the committee hope 
the Board of Regents will sanction the course of the Committee in 
paying the extra charges. 

The committee now present a statement of the expenditures as yet in- 
curred, or pledged on the building and grounds, and chargeable to the 
building fund of ^>250;,000, heretofore set apart. 

Total amount appropriated for building and grounds - ^250,000 
Amount of Mr. Cameron's contract - - $205,250 00 

Architect's salary for five years - - 9, OUO 00 

Superintendents and draughtsmen for 5 years, 5, 000 00 

Incidental expenses allowed architect - 2,000 00 

Facing areas with cut-stone . - - 460 00 

Building battlements to cloisters - - 200 00 

Additional apparatus cases - • - - 200 00 

Hedging and planting , - . 1,050 00 

Furnaces already put up - - - 1,135 63 

Addition of clere-story to museum - - 2, 350 00 

Alteration of stairway, etc. - - - 100 00 

Chimneys added to the east wing - - 400 00 

Sodding ground near building - - 100 00 
Heating central building with sfeam, inclu- 
ding cellar for boiler and as a coal vault — 

a])proximate etsimate of the architect - 3,200 00 
Additional furniture and incidental expenses — 

say 1,000 00 



231,165 63 



Leaving, as applicable to unforeseen expenses cojinected with 

the building or grounds, the sum of ... 18,54437 



A contract made with Mr. John Douglass, jr., for planting and cultiva- 
ting trees and shrubs within the Smithsonian grounds, and another 
with the same person for planting and cultivating hedges along the margin 
of the same, not having been complied with on Ins part, have been annul- 
led by the committee. The committee are sorry to say, that from these 
failures the yearjnst past may be considered as almost wholly lost, as re- 
spects the establishment of trees or hedges. They look, however, for better 
results from their future arrangements of this nature. 

JOS. G. TOTTEN, 
\V. W. SEATON, 
H. W. HILLIARD. 



TITLE LXXIII. 



The Smithsonian Institution. 



TITLE LXX in. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Sec. 

5579. Incorporation of the Institu- 
tion. 

5580. Kegents. 

5581. Appointment of regents. 

5582. Organization of Board. 

5583. Duties of Secretary. 

5584. Salary and removal of Secre- 
tary, &c. 

5585. Special meetings of members. 

5586. Keception and arrangement of 
specimens and objects of art. 



Sec. 

5587. Library. 

5588. Evidence of title to site and 
buildings. 

5589. Protection of properly. 

5590. Appropriation of interest. 

5591. Acceptance of other sums. 

5592. Disposal of unappropriated 
money. 

5593. Disbursements. 

5594. Riglit of repeal. 



\ 



Preamble. James Smitbson, esquire, of London, g^^'^^^^f ^"'"''8 
in the kingdom of Great Britain, having by 
his last will and testament given the whole of 
his property to the United States of America, 
to found, at Washington, under the name of 
the " Smithsonian Institution," an establish- 
ment for the increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men; and the United States 
having, by an act of Congress, received said 
property and accepted said trust; therefore, 
for the faithful execution of said trust, accord- 
ing to the will of the liberal and enlightened 
donor, 

Sec. 5579. The President, the Vice-President, incrpmntion 

of the iii'ititu- 

the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treas- ^}^ 



4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Tlt7:\''f:;: ury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the 
c.tv^mp'/i"' ^avy, the Postmaster General, the Attorney Gen- 
eral, the Chief Justice, the Commissioner of the 
Patent Office, and the Governor of the District 
of Columbia, and such other persons as they may 
elect honorary members, are hereby constituted 
an establishment, by the name of the " Smithso- 
nian Institution," for the increase and diftiision 
of knowledge among men ; and by that name 
shall be known and. have perpetual succession, 
with the powers, limitations, and restrictions 
hereinafter contained, and no other. 

-^!?!!!!i . Sec. 5580. The business of the Institution shall 

10Aug..]84fi,c. 

i7,s,8. 3, V. 9. p. ]3g conducted at the city of Washington by a 

10 Jan., ISSS, c -_ 

"2oVardi is-] Board of Regents, named the Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the 
Vice-President, the Chief Justice of the United 
States, and the Governor of the District of 
Columbia ; three members of the Senate and 
three members of the House of Representatives; 
together with six other persons, other than mem- 
bers of Congress, two of whom shall be resident 
in the city of Washington ; and the other four 
shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of 
them of the same State. 

Appointment of Sec. 5581. Thc Reo;ents to be selected shall be 
10 Aug.. 1846, c. appointed as follows : The members of the Senate 

178, s. 3, V. 9, p. '' '- 

'"^' by the President thereof; the members of the 

i' 
House by the Speaker thereof; and the six other ■ | 

persons by joint resolution of the Senate and 

House of Representatives. The members of the 



i 



TITLE LXXIII. 

House SO appointed shall serve for the term of 
two years ; and on every alternate fourth Wed- 
nesday of December a like number shall be 
appointed in the same manner, to serve until the 
fourth Wednesday in December, in the second 
year succeeding their appointment. The Sena- 
tors so appointed shall serve during the term for 
which they shall hold, without re-election, their 
office as Senators. Vacancies, occasioned by 
death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be tilled as 
vacancies in committees are filled. The regular 
term of service for the other six members shall 
be six years ; and new elections thereof shall be 
made by joint resolution of Congress. Vacan- 
cies occasioned by death, resignation, or other- 
wise may be tilled in like manner by joint resolu- 
tion of Cono-ress. 



Sec. 5582. The Regents shall meet in the citv oreanizattonof 

" board. 



of Washington and elect one of their number as n,ici. 
Chancellor, w^ho shall be the presiding officer of 
the Board of Regents, and called the Chancellor 
of the Smithsonian Institution, and a suitable 
person as Secretary of tlie Institution, who shall 
also be the Secretary of the Board of Regents. 
The Board shall also elect three of their own 
body as an executive committee, and the Regents 
shall tix on the time for the regular meetings of 
the Board; and, on application of any three of 
the Regents to the Secretary of the Institution, 
it shall be his duty to appoint a special meeting 
of the Board of Regents, of which he shall give 



O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

notice, by letter, to each of the members; and, 
at any meeting of the Board, five shall constitute 
a quorum to do business. Each member of the 
Board shall be paid his necessary traveling and 
other actual expenses, in attending meetings of 
the Board, which shall be audited by the execu- 
tive committee, and recorded by the Secretary of 
the Board ; but his service as Kegent shall be 
gratuitous. 

vM^lr!"' °^ '^'^ Sec. 5583. The Secretarv of the Board of Re- 



Ibid., s. 7, p. gents shall take charo'c of the building and 

105. '^ O & 

property of the Institution, and shall, under their 
direction, make a fair and accurate record of all 
their proceedings, to be preserved in the Institu- 
tion ; and shall also discharge the duties of libra- 
rian and of keeper of the museum, and may, with 
the consent of the Board of Regents, employ 
assistants. 



mofi^of ''secret Sec. 5584. Thc Secretary and his assistants shall 
— ^ — '- respectively receive for their services such sums 

Ibid. ^ -^ 

as may be allowed by the Board of Regents, to be 
paid semi-annually on the first day of January 
and July ; and shall be removable by the Board 
of Regents whenever, in their judgment, the 
interests of the Institution require such removal. 

inlso'fnlrmbers' ^EC. 5585. The meuibcrs and honorary mem- 



ibid.,s.8. bers of the Institution may hold stated and special 
meetings, for the supervision of the affairs of the 
Institution and the advice and instruction of the 
.Board of Regents, to be called in the manner 



TITLE LXXIII. 7 

provided for in the by-laws of the Institution, at 
which the President, and in his absence the Vice- 
President shall preside. 

Sec. 5586. Whenever suitable arrantjements Recoption and 

~ arranKement of 

1 ij? J- ii- n jt • specimens and 

can be made trom time to time, tor their recep- objects of art. 
tion, all objects of art and of foreign and curious ^^"'•'^•^• 
research, and all objects of natural history, plants, 
and geological and mineralogical specimens, be- 
longing to the United States, which may be in 
the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody 
they may be, shall be delivered to such persons 
as may be authorized by the Board of Regents 
to receive them, and shall be so arranged and 
classified in the building erected for the Institu- 
tion as best to facilitate the examination and 
study of them ; and whenever new specimens in 
natural history, geology, or mineralogy, are ob- 
tained for the museum of the Institution, by 
exchanges of duplicate specimens which the 
Regents may in their discretion make, or by 
donation, which they may receive, or otherwise, 
the Regents shall cause such new specimens to 
be appropriately classed and arranged. The 
minerals, books, manuscripts, and other property 
of James Smithson, which have been received by 
the Government of the United States, shall be 
preserved separate and apart from other property 
of the Institution. 

Sec. 5587. The Regents shall make, from the Library. 



interest of the fund, an appropriation, not i'^''^'^-^- 
exceeding an average of twenty-five tliousand 






8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

dollars annually, for the gradual formation of a 
library composed of valuable works pertaining to 
all departments of human knowledge. [See § 
94, 99, 100.] 

Evidence of Sec. 5588. The site and lands selected for 

title to site and 

■ "' '°"^" buildings for the Smithsonian Institution shall be 

Ibid., s. 4, p. 

^^*- deemed appropriated to the Institution, and the 

record of the description of such site and lands, 
or a copy thereof, certified by the Chancellor and 
Secretary of the Board of Regents, shall be 
received as evidence in all courts of the extent 
and boundaries of the lands appropriated to the 
Institution. 

property"''" °^ Sec. 5589. All laws for the protection of public 



Ibid. ,8.5. property in the city of Washington shall apply 
to, and be in force for, the protection of the 
lands, buildings, and other property of the 
Smithsonian Institution. All money recovered 
by or accruing to, the Institution, shall be paid 
into the Treasury of the United States, to the 
credit of the Smithsonian bequest, and separately 
accounted for. 

of m^^reT''""" Sec. 5590. So much of the property of James 
j^^tjid- s. 2, p. Smithson as has been received in money, and 
3|, 8.'2,"v.i4,'p; paid into tlie Treasury of the United States, 
being the sum of five hundred and forty-one 
thousand three hundred and seventj^-nine dollars 
and sixtj'-three cents, shall be lent to the United 
States Treasury, at six per centum per annum 
interest, and six per centum interest on the trust 
fund and residuary legacy received into the 



TITLE LXXIII. 

United States Treasury, payable in half-yearly 
payments, on the first of January and July in 
each year, is hereby appropriated for the per- 
petual maintenance and support of the Smith- 
sonian Institution ; and all expenditures and 
appropriations to be made, from time to time, to 
the purposes of the Institution shall be exclu- 
sively from the accruing interest, and not from 
the principal of the fund. All the moneys and 
stocks which have been, or may hereafter be, 
received into the Treasury of the United States, 
on account of the fund bequeathed by James 
Smithson, are hereby pledged to refund to the 
Treasury of the United States the sums hereby 
appropriated. 

Sec. 5591. The Secretary of the Treasury is o.hcrBSms"'" 



of 



authorized and directed to receive into the ,5Fej.., isw, c. 

54, B. 1, V. 14, p. 

Treasury, on the same terms as the original 
bequest of James Smithson, such sums as the 
Regents may, from time to time, see fit to deposit, 
not exceeding, with the original bequest, the sum 
of one million dollars. 

Sec. 5592. The Regents are authorized to ap^n]'pHa't.^^"o- 
make such disposal of any other moneys which -^^^ — j^^ 
have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as inter- m. ^' ' '" '^' 
est upon the Smithsonian fund, not herein appro- 
priated, or not required for the purposes herein 
provided, as they shall deem best suited for the 
promotion of the purpose of the testator. 

Sec. 5593. Whenever money is required for Pisbursemente. 
the payment of the debts or performance of the 103." 



10 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

contracts of the Institution, incurred or entered 
into in conformity with the provisions of this 
Title, or for making the purchases and executing 
the objects authorized by this Title, the Board of 
Regents, or the executive committee thereof, 
may certify to the Chancellor and Secretary of 
the Board that such sum of money is required, 
whereupon they shall examine the same, and, if 
they shall approve thereof, shall certify the same 
to the proper ofhcer of the Treasury for pay- 
ment. The Board shall submit to Congress, at 
each session thereof, a report of the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Institution. 

Right of repeal. Sec. 5594. Cougrcss may alter, amend, add 

loc'."' ' *"■ ^'' ^' to, or repeal any of the provisions of this Title ; 

but no contract or individual right made or 

acquired under such provisions shall be thereby 

divested or impaired. 






I 



I 









- CC <2 





















««^<^<^ 



<£ C ■ 
' c C 

<C1 






Ce:c<:- 



je: Ota; -^S^^ ,^' ^^ ^<z 



•CjC«5C 





















^.LCT'tr 



•«321-. 






crcco 















<:: c «r 



Ci.C. ' 



cccr 






c?x;-c: 






"^^^^ir^^s-?^ 






sas&siS&i.-, 



"^^kKa«S-25': 



— — - ■ ow-.t- ^ 

. Tries: c:«' ^'■ 












m. 









: c« XL < 

-^ CfrC 

Jc c 

1 ' "C 

:< c 






c«r<'<atr<i: 






.■<s<^ 



-«^^^ 



■^Ei^wCaS 






<ZI<C «2^'<S. 



'*^<^ 



"«c •<;: «^ <^^^*^ 





















!■<:■". 



««L <:*. «..' 
«: c <- 






•■c^.<r 



^■^ 



<C<; V 
- ■ . , . < ^T «" c «:. <r c c <• . 





















C31C C 
OCCJC 









. ,ccc c 
< act c^ 



■ . ii' c -c- . <rj ^■-: <If <C c;<. c. ■, 
c c «:•:«£*<££.■ tCLt «:: <r«- c 

<t^ <J <:<«^i<;c. *«C<S:- <: ■'* 



■ • <r.<z: 












c:lc e c 



<: f- r,. 



• f- <: 

it ft <- 

<:•< '■ <: 
<f <i C 

c c c 






. c c -, 









4- -i- _ d 









-^2ric:.-'< 



;" •"dec dl 

dr<<:<ir <^ 

d3ie dl < 
dL<r c: <^ < 

dice ^^ 

= cc <: 






LOd ^S*^ 

<c<c:: ' 
■-'ts.cd 's;: 

ccd" '< 
.<C<d f^^ ' 
<<.< <£' •' — - 
cot' .ef dl'C 



d < ««si<;x <? o</v,<: 
T =i.:<«£t< d d'^^^'dlj 

1 «<i; ..c 
- . «Efcc d 

«&<«■ <:- d3<^ 



ddTccd , <2 <s: Ct^*: 
«f<X'<:<: d-d • cctci 

jc<d c<:.':<i: d-<<: 

^J'cd <?> d' <:•»' 

■dec <i"CC C-C 
.cv'ct • <jr-<s:^ 
Ted < C?<fCr C'd. 
Tf <c i dt'- c*, • C'C 

TcC < <5C <3f C C 

<r<c 4. <3t- d: C<.iC 

^c c <3& Ci^ c; c 

dljiC -<2Jc. <f <3*s <r -Cd 
St.: 'CS-'C ■« 
.: •<£<< « 



■<c::.^d^<• 

<ZedSd: 



, C C i^ 






;dd5C:-co 



:-C« dl 






<r d ' 

r d. '■ 



dT d 

.d 



d^ < 









' de ' 

- do 






:::<:<. «L.«vd 

J^,^:.: d:*:<3 



«L - dl ■ ^' <S.«^ la^ • t. ' < 
'<:«■ «:■:-<■ «;•';«::>■«: cr« 

^;^-<:v. didr«r?c<^ ^r««Kd. c^ <i 



.<v:'d ^'CC'acr-Cd c 



.-di.<5::*: 



■ <:c ■;;•■■ --"- 

d-^ d^-edc 



d'«^|^<.^,-^ 



..<ac:<;d-"^. 



5^l5::_ 






^^'jiu'^,' 




ipMB 






yn.mu 

m 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 





3 9088 01421 6121 



'Vifrt>".r>iinjf(' 






YmR5i«ii7S>57/: ' 






