
I\j ■" '" ■ 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 
POR THE YEAR 18G9. 



WASHINGTOi^: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1872. 



Congress of the United States, In the House of Representatives, 

Forty-first Congress, Second Session, July 12, 1870. 
Resolved hy the House of Bepresentatives, (the Senate concurring,) That ten thousand addi- 
tional cojiies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1869 be printed, 
three thousand of which shall be for the use of the Senate, four thousand for the use 
of the House, and three thousand for the use of the Institution : Provided, That tho 
aggregate number of pages of said report shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, and 
that there shall be no illustrations except those furnished by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

On the 13th of July, 1870, a message was received from the Senate, by Mr. Gorham, 
its Secretary, notifying the House that the Senate had agreed to the said resolution 
without amendment. 

Attest : EDW. McPHERSON, Clerk. 

Per GEO. FRS. DAWSON, Assistant Cleric. 



Congress of the United States, in the House of Representatives, 
Forty-second Congress, Second Session, May 29, 1872. 
The following resolution, originating in the House of Representatives on the 23d 
instant, has this day been concurred in bj'^ the Senate : 

Besolved, (the Senate concurring,) That two thousand extra copies each of the reports 
of the Smithsonian Institution, of which the stereotype-plates are now in the Con- 
gressional Printing-Office, be printed for distribution by tho Smithsonian Institution 
to libraries, colleges, and public establishments. 
Attest: EDW. McPHERSON, 

Ckrli. 



LETTEE 



FROM THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

TEA^sSMITTIXG 

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1869. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, March 1, 1870. 

Sir : In behalf of tlie Board of Eegeuts, I liave the honor to submit 
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the oi3erations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
1869. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. S. Colfax, 

President of the Senate. 
Hon. J. G. Blaine, 

Sjyeaher of the House of Eepresentatives. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 18G9. 



This documeut contains: 1. The programme of organization of the 
Smithsonian lustitntion. 2. The annual report of the "secretary, giving 
an account of the operations and condition of tlie establishment for the 
year 1869, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &c. 

3. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 18G9, and the estimates for 1870. 

4. The proceedings of the Board of Regents. 5. A general appendix, 
consisting principally of reports of lectures, translations from forcing 
iournals of articles not generally accessible, but of interest to meteorol- 
ogists, correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others interested 
in the promotion of knowledge. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



ULYSSES S. GRANT President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer of 

the Institution. 

SALMON P. CHASE Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti- 
tution, President of the Board of Eegents. 

JOSEPH HENEY Secretary (or Director) of the Institution. 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



S. P. CHASE Chief Justice of the United States, President of the Board. 

S. COLFAX Vice-President of the United States, 

S. J. BO WEN Mayor of the City of Washington. 

L. TRUMBULL Member of the Senate of the United States. 

GARRETT DAVIS Member of the Senate of the United States. 

H. HAMLIN Member of the Senate of the United States. 

J. A. GARFIELD Member of the House of Representatives. 

L. P. POLAND Member of the House of Representatives. 

S. S. COX Member of the House of Representatives. 

W. B. ASTOR Citizen of New York. 

T. D. WOOLSEY' Citizen of Connecticut. 

L. AGASSIZ Citizen of Massachusetts. 

RICHARD DELAFIELD. -.Citizen of Washington. ] 

PETER PARKER Citizen of Washington. } Executive Committee. 

JOHN MACLEAN Citizen of New Jersey, j 



MEMBEES EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



U. S. GRANT President of the United States. 

S. COLFAX Vice-President of the United States. 

S. P. CHASE Chief Justice of the United States. 

H. FISH Secretary of State. 

G. S. BOUTWELL Secretary of the Treasury. 

W. W. BELKNAP Secretary of War. 

G. M. ROBESON Secretary of the Navy. 

J. A. J. CRESWTiiLL Postmaster General. 

J. D. COX Secretary of the Interior. 

E. R. HOAR Attorney General. 

S. S. FISHER Commissioner of Patents. 

S. J. BOWEN Mayor of the City of Washington. 



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF TEE INSTITUTION. 



JOSEPH HENEY, Secretary, 
Director of the Institution. 



SPENCER F. BAIED, Assistant Secretary, 
In charge of Museum^ Exchanges^ &c. 



WILLIAM J. EHEES, Chief Clerk, 
In charge of Accounts.^ Printing, and General Business, 



DANIEL LEECH, Clerk, 
In charge of Correspondence. 



HENET M. BANNISTEE, Clerk, 
In charge of Meteorology. 



JANE A. TUENEE, Clerk, 
In charge of Records of International Exchange 



SOLOMON G. BEOWN, Clerk, 
In charge of Transportation. 



JOSEPH HEEEON, 

Janitor of the Museum. 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 

OF THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPOlfr OF THE SECRETARY, ANT3 
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1«47.] 



INTEOI)UCTIO]S". 



General considerations which sJioidd serve as a guide in adopting a Plan 

of Organization. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, " to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffu- 
sion of Ivnowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The Government of 
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the 
testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and, 2d, to 
diffuse knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition 
of new truths 5 and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, 
among men. 

C. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten- 
sively diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be 
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of in- 
creasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either at 
all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adoj^ted provis- 
ionally ; can be easily reduced to practice; receive modilicatious, or 
be abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacriiice of the funds. 

10. In order to compensate in some measure for the loss of time 
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, 
a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be added 
to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the 
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the con- 
struction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice should 
be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair, 



8 PROGRAMME OF OUGANIZATION. 

and of tlic support of the establislimeut necessarily eounected with it. 
There should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the 
Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by 
the plan of the organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene- 
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure 
on local objects would be a i^erversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from 
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the 
act of Congress establishiug the Institution. These are, a library, a 
museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con- 
tain them. 

SECTION I. 

Plan of organization of the Institution in accordance icitli the foregoing 
deductions from the ivill of Smithson. 

To INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It IS propOSed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering 
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths ; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re- 
searches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is propOSCd — 

1. To publish a series of periodical rei^orts on the progress of the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 
I. JBy stimulating researches. 

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all 
branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, 
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub- 
lication which does not furnish a i^ositive addition to human knowledge, 
resting on original research ; and all unverified speculations to be re- 
jected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for 
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the 
branch to which the memoir pertains ; and to be accepted for publica- 
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and 
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favor- 
able decision is made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions 
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col- 
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remain- 
ing copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, 
to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from new insti- 
tutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9 

to be given to the public tlirougli the annual report of the Eegeuts to 
Congress. 

II. By appropriating a part of the income, annuaUi/j to special objects 
of research, under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects aud the amount appropriated, to be recommended by 
counsellors of the Institution. 

L*. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in 
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, 
■with the memoirs before mentioned, in the Volumes of the Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the 
problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag- 
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation 
of a Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina- 
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of 
light; chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication 
of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to phj'sical, 
moral, and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated 
in American history. 

(G.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif- 
ferent races of men in North America ; also, explorations and accurate 
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our 
country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By the puMication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new 
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all 
brandies of knowledge not strictly professional. 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest- 
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the 
reports may be i^ublished annually, others at longer intervals, as the 
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge 
may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica- 
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report ; 
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title- 
page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons inter- 
ested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it without 
purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu- 
tion, the remniuing copies to be given to literary and scientific institu- 
tions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the 
reports :* 

"This part of the pluu has beeu but partially carried out. 



10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and 
meteorology. 

2. iSTatural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Ai)i)licatiou of science to arts. 

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including jiarticuhir history, comparative philology, 
antiquities, &c. 

G, Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and nioral i)hilosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world 5 penal reform, &c. 

III. LITERAITRE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest. 

1. These treatises may occasioually consist of valuable memoirs 
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the 
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the 
best exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of 
competent judges, previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the 
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the 
table of reports. 

SECTION II. 

Flan of orfjanizationj in accordance tcith the terms of the resolutions of the 
Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and diffusing 
Jcnoivledge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the 
formation of a library and a museum -, and the Board of Kegents, in- 
cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the 
income* into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowdedge by 
meaus of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before 
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library 
and a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceed- 
ings of all the learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the more important 
current i^eriodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing 
the periodical reports. 

"The amount of the Smithsouiau bequest received into the Treasury of the 

Uuited States is $515, 1C9 00 

Interest on the same to July 1, 184G, (devoted to the erectiou of the buihliug) 2i'2, 1'29 00 
Annual income from the bequest 30, 910 14 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11 

5. The Institution should malvc special collections, particularly of 
objects to illustrate and verily its own publications. 

C. Also, a collection of instruments of resear(;li in all branches of ex- 
perimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men- 
tioned above, catalogues of all the difterent libraries in the United 
States should be ]>rocured, in order that the valuable books first pur- 
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for rendering the Institution a center of bibliograph- 
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which 
he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase 
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to 
purchase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts 
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, tree of ex- 
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other 
similar societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an- 
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides 
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to 
act as librarian. 

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to 
the Eegents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep 
a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of 
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Ilegents, employ assistants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited to 
give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be- 
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change 
is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15j 
1855, viz: 

BcsoJved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Eegents, 
on the 2Gth of January, l!^47, requiring an equal division of the income 
between the active operations and the museum and library, when the 
buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed. 

Eesolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the 
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, be 
necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance and 
a compliance in good faith with the law. 



EEPOET 

OF 



PROFESSOR HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

FOR 

1869. 



To the Board of Regents : 

Gentle^hen : The Institution intrusted to your guardiansliip by the 
Congress of the United States, has, during the past year, continued its 
operations in the line of increasing and diffusing knowledge with una- 
bated energy. The sphere of its influence in this country and abroad 
has from the first been constantly on the increase, and it is now not too 
much to say that no institution founded by the liberality of a private 
individual ever attained a wider or more favorable reputation. It is 
true, its character is sometimes misunderstood, but this cannot be a 
matter of surprise when we reflect that it differs in many particulars 
from all other institutions, and that without an attentive perusal of the 
annual reports, no adequate idea can be obtained of its varied field of 
labor, or of what it has done and is doing to promote the special objects 
denoted in the will of its founder. It is here sufficient to mention that, 
besides adding to the sum of human knowledge by its own operations, 
and connecting its name with the history of almost every branch of 
science, it has become the general agent through which the intellectual 
labors of the eastern and western hemispheres are brought into efficient 
cooperation. The importance of its labors and the influence of the 
international communication which it has established, can only be pro- 
perly estimated by those who are acquainted with the distinctive char- 
acteristics of modern civilization, and who realize the fact that it 
mainly rests on the develoi)ment of a knowledge of the laws of nature 
and the application of these laws to the uses of life. Science not only 
gives man control over the physical elements, and thus tends to eman- 
cipate him from the curse of brute labor, but also serves to widen the 
domain of his intellectual activities and enlarge the sphere of his moral 
sympathies. By an attentive perusal of the following report, I think it 
will be admitted by all who are competent to form a proper opinion on 
the subject, that what I have claimed for the Institution is not too 
much, and that any departure from the general policy which has been 
constantly pursued from the beginning, would be attended with unfortu- 
nate consequences. 

Finances. — At the last session of the Board it was resolved that a 
memorial be i)resented to Congress, setting forth the large expendi- 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tiire to which the Institution had been subjected by reason of the ac- 
commodation and uuxintenance of the National Museum, and asking 
that the usual appropriation of $4,000 that liad been made on this 
account be increased to $10,000 ; also, that $25,000 be appropriated 
to\yard fitting up the large room in the second story of the main build- 
ing, for the better exhibition of the government collections. In accord- 
ance with this resolution a petition was prepared, signed by the Chan- 
cellor and Secretary of the Institution, and presented to the House of 
Representatives by General Garfield, one of the Regents. It was re- 
ferred to the Committee on Appropriations, and although forcibly ad- 
vocated by the members of the Board belonging to the House, it was not 
granted, and only the usual sum was appropriated. The same memo- 
rial has, through the Secretary of the Interior, again been presented to 
Congress. The reasonableness of this petition must be manifest when 
it is considered that $4,000 is the sum which the maintenance of the 
museum cost the government when it was in charge of the Patent Ofhce, 
and that since its removal to the Institution it has increased to three 
times its original size, while the money has depreciated to one-half its 
former value. From an accurate analysis of the accounts it appears 
that the items directly chargeable to the museum during the past year 
amount to $15,000. This sum is exclusive of the interest on $144,000, 
which has been expended* since the fire in the restoration of the build- 
ing, principally for the accommodations for the museum. Owing to the 
fall in the premium on gold, and the non-i^ayment of interest by the 
State of Virginia on bonds held by the Institution, the income during 
the past year has been less than the estimate by upward of $2,400. It 
has, therefore, been necessary to diminish expenditures in certain direc- 
tions, in order to carry out the plan of accumulating a sufficient surplus 
in the treasury at the beginning of the year to defray, in cash, as far as 
possible, all the current expenses. From the report of the Executive 
Committee it will be seen that this plan has been rigorously carried out ; 
that the balance on hand at the beginning of 1870 was nearly $21,000, 
with outstanding bills of $3,000, which is about the amount of indebted- 
ness at the commencement of last year. The finances of the Institution 
may, therefore, be exhibited as follows : 
The whole bequest of Smithson in the United States Treas- 
ury $541, 379 G3 

Additions from savings, &c., also in the United States 

Treasury 108, 620 37 

Virginia State stock, ($72,760,) valued at 42, 200 80 

Cash on hand 20, 969 65 

Total 713, 170 45 

Deduct bills due, (about) 2, 969 65 

Which leaves, as the present capital 710, 200 80 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

The income from the Smithson fund during the year 18G9, iucluaing 
the premhmi on gohl, was $40,515, 

In a hite report from the Treasurj^ Department, 8■i^^n8• a list of the 
appropriations of Congress for the District of Columbia, a large amount 
is put do^Yn to the Smithsonian Institution. This statement, without 
explanation, would give an erroneous impression. From the organiza- 
tion of the Institution to the present time it cannot properly be said 
that the government has appropriated a single dollar from the public 
treasury for the Institution. The principal "appropriations" mentioned 
in the report in question were not from the public money, but from the 
Smithson fund deposited in the Treasury of the United States. The only 
appropriation from the national treasury which might appear to be for 
the benefit of the Institution, is that of $4,000, annually made for the 
care and exhibition of the Government Museum, and, also, at one time 
$10,000, and at another $4,000, to erect cases for the better preservation 
of the specimens; and even in these instances, as has been shown, the 
Institution was far from being reimbursed for the actual exx)enditure on 
the care of the museum. 

Cooperation with Government Departments. — It has always 
been a prominent feature in the i>olicy of the Institution to act in unison 
with other institutions, and especially to cooperate with the several 
departments and bureaus of the general government in all cases in 
whieh their respective functions would admit of such cooperation. 
It is in accordance with this policy that the extensive and rapidly 
increasing library of the Institution has been incorporated with that of 
Congress, and that a similar arrangement, mentioned in the last report, 
for transferring to the Department of Agriculture the large Smithsonian 
herbarium, has been completed. It is also in accordance with this policy 
that an arrangement has been made with Surgeon General Barnes by 
which all the crania and other of the osteological specimens of the In- 
stitution have been transferred to the Army Medical JMuseum. 

These cooperations, while they relieve the Institution from the expend- 
iture of more than $10,000 annually, and thus enable it to more vigor- 
ously prosecute its researches, to publish a larger number of contribu- 
tions, and to extend its system of international exchanges, tend also to 
increase the amount of scientific material in the capital of the United 
States, as well as to facilitate its employment in the advance and diffu- 
sion of knowledge. 

This Institution and its collaborators have the use not only of its 
books deposited in the Capitol, but also that of those in the National 
Library, as may be seen by the terms of the deposit given in a previous 
report. Also, agreeably to the terms upon which the plants were trans- 
ferred, they are accessible to the i)ublic for practical or educational 
purposes, and to the Institution for scientific investigation. Further- 
more, a botanist approved by the Institution has been appointed, who 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

is to have charge of the specimens aud be ready at all times to give 
botanical iuformation that may be required by the general public or by 
the Smithsonian correspondents. Moreover, in return for the specimens 
transferred to the Medical Museum the Institution receives from the 
officers of the army all collections made in ethnology and in special 
branches of natural history. 

PiTBLiCATiONS. — The publications of the Institution form an essential 
part of its operations and constitute the principal basis of the great sys- 
tem of Smithsonian international exchanges. As has been frequently 
stated in previous reports, they are of three classes : the Contributions 
to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual Eeports. 
The first consist of memoirs containing positive additions to science 
resting on original research, and which are, principally, the result of 
investigations to which the Institution has in. some way rendered assist- 
ance. The Miscellaneous Collections are chiefly composed of. works 
intended to facilitate the study of ethnology, natural history, and mete- 
orology. They are designed to facilitate the progress of those who en- 
gage in special studies, to which, in their leisure moments, their thoughts 
may recur, and in connection with which, while contributing to their 
own i)leasure, they may advance the cause of science. The Annual 
Eeports, besides giving an account of the operations of the Institution, 
furnish, in an ai^pendix, matter of importance to the meteorological 
observer aud of interest to the general public. The Contributions and 
Miscellaneous Collections are published at the expense of the Smithson 
fund, wliiie the Eeports, with the exception of the illustrations, are 
jirinted by the government. 

The following is a list of the quarto publications that have been 
printed during the ijresent year: 

1. On the Gray Substance of the Medulla Oblongata and Trapezium. 
By John Dean, M. D. 

2. On the Orbit and Phenomena of a Meteoric Fire-ball, seen July 20, 
18G0. By Professor J. H. Coffin, LL.D. 

3. On the Transatlantic Longitude. By Benjamin A. Gould. 

4. The Indians of Cape Fhittery, at the Entrance of the Strait of Fuca, 
Washington Territory. By J. G. Swan. 

5. Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family. By 
Lewis II. Morgan. 

G. On the Gliddon Mummy Case in the Museum of the Smithsonian 
Institution. By Chas. Pickering. 

7. A new edition of Brewer's North American Oology. 

Of these Nos. 1 to C, together with Hildreth's and Cleveland's Meteor- 
ological Observations, i)reviously described, form the 16th volume of 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, which wiU be distributed to 
the foreign correspondents of the Institution in the next invoice, and, 
as soon as an additional number can be bound, to the i)ublic institutions 
of this counti y. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

The following are the titles of tlie articles of the octavo series that have 
beeu i^rinted duriug the year, or are now iu press : 

1. Land and Fresh Water Shells of North America. Part I. By W. 
G. Biuney and T. Bland. 

2. Photographic Portraits of North American Indians in the Gallery 
of the Smithsonian Institution. 

3. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. 
New and enlarged edition. 

4. Directions for Collecting, Preserving and Transporting Specimens 
of Natural History. Prepared for the use of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. (New edition.) 

5. Tables, Meteorological and Physical, i)repared for the Smithsonian 
Institution. By A. Guyot, P. D., LL. D. (New edition.) 

6. Circular in Eeference to the Degrees of Eelatiouship among Differ- 
ent Nations. (New edition.) 

At the request of the Institution the preparation of the Manual of the 
Land and Fresh Water Shells of North America was undertaken by W. 
G. Binney. Tlic second and third i)arts of this work were published 
some years ago, and have been described in previous reports. The 
first part, which completes the work, was issued duriug the year 
1869, and forms by itself a volume of 328 pages, illustrated with many 
woodcuts. The work was at first undertaken hy Mr. Binney alone, but 
he afterward, in this part, associated with himself Mr. Thomas Bland, of 
New York. It contains a description of all the species of land shells 
known in January 1808, within the geographical limits of North Amer- 
ica, from the extreme North to the Eio Grande and Mazatlan. It is con- 
sidered a valuable contribution to the study of conchology and is in 
great demand among those interested in the pursuit of this branch of 
natural history. 

From the stereotype plates of these octavo works, from which impres- 
sions have been printed and separately distributed in pamphlet form, two 
additional volumes of the Miscellaneous Collections have been made up, 
and are nearly ready for distribution. 

On account of the great outlay for the building during the last few 
years, "the appropriations for j^ublications have been restricted; yet from 
the foregoing it will be seen that we shall be able to distribute in our 
next foreign invoice one quarto and two octavo volumes, which, with 
the Annual Eeport, will make four volumes of publications issued dur- 
ing 18G9. 

A brief account has been given in previous reports of the contents of 
all the papers forming the IGth volume of Contributions, excepting the 
Gliddon Mummy Case, the Indians of Cape Flattery, and the Trans- 
atlantic Longitude. 

The first of these is by Dr. Charles Pickering, of Boston, one of the 
ethnologists of the United States Exploring Expedition, under Admiral 
Wilkes. It relates to an interesting specimen of Egyptian archteology 
2 s 



18 KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

presented, in 1842, by Mr. Glidclon, the Egyptologist, to the national 
collection now in charge of the Smithsonian Institution, but at that time 
in the United States Patent Office. It consists of a part of the lid of 
a mummy case procured at Sacara from an Arab. It does not bear any 
inscription by which its date can be determined, but it is supposed by Dr. 
Pickering to belong to a very early period, and to be among the oldest — 
if not the very oldest — of specimens of hieroglyphic writing known. 
The earliest writing, of ascertained date, was executed in the third dy- 
nasty from 3110 to 3080, B. C. ; but, according to Dr. Pickering, the 
writings on the mummy case in the Institution are of a style different 
from, and clearly anterior to, that executed in the third dynasty. To- 
ward the beginning of this era, on the authority of Manctho, writing 
was improved, and as all improvements of this kind have tended in the 
direction of an increased facility, this mummy case at least seems to 
have preceded such a change. The lid was divided by Mr. Gliddon into 
three parts ; the first part is the one just described, the second was pre- 
sented to the Naval Lyceum of Brooklyn, the third to Mrs. Ward, of 
Kew York, Diligent though unsuccessful inquiry has been made for the 
missing parts, in order to have them also figured and described ; and 
now, through this report, attention is again called to the subject, with 
the hope that if the other portions of the lid are still in existence, in- 
formation of the fact may be communicated to the Institution. The 
part of the lid above described is represented on a large plate which 
presents a fac-simile of the figures as to size and color. 

The second undescribed paper is that on the Indians of Cape Flattery, 
which, there is no doubt, will be considered an interesting contriliution 
to ethnology. It was prepared, at the request of the Institution, by Mr. 
James G. Swan, an agent of the United States government, who had 
long resided with the tribe of which he has given an account. This 
tribe occui)ies the extreme northwestern part of Wasliiugton Territory, 
opposite Vancouver's Island, from which it is separated by the Strait of 
Fuca. The paper contains a full account of the manners and customs 
of these Indians, and a description of their implements, utensils, cloth- 
ing, modes of travel, fashion of constructing houses, &c. It also gives 
a minute account of the festivals and ceremonies of these Indians, and 
of the various myths with which these are connected. Among other 
singular superstitions is that of the resurrection, as it were, of the flesh 
of the body but not of the bones, which are left in the graves : that 
the spirit world is in the center of the earth, where the inhabitants are 
somewhat incommoded by the want of the osseous part of their bodies. 
The memoir is illustrated by a large number of woodcuts, most of them 
copied from specimens now in the museum of the Institution. In the 
absence of the author of the work it was edited by George Gibbs, esq., 
who has added occasional notes, and also a vocabulary of the Makah 
tribe, furnished by Mr. Swan. 

The third memoir to be described is the rei)ort of Dr. B. A. Gould on 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

tlie Transatlantic Longitude. The principal results of this investigation 
Tvere communicated by Dr. Gould to the meeting of the National 
Academy of Sciences, during its session in 1SG7, and the rejiort in full 
was presented to the Institution for publication, with the consent of the 
Superintendent of the Coast Survey, Professor Peirce, in February 
18G0. It relates to the determination of the difference of longitude 
between England and America, by means of the electro-magnetic tele- 
graph. This method was first practically applied in the Coast Survey 
of the United States, between places in this country, and received its 
full development in this great national work before it began to be used 
elscAvhere. Previous to the introduction of this method, three others 
had been employed on the Siu-vey. First, that of observations of the 
time of the culmination of the moon at the two places between which 
the difference of longitude, or, in other words, of time, was to be deter- 
mined; second, that of observing the times of beginning and ending of 
eclii)ses of the sun and of occultations of known stars by the passage 
over them of the moon ; and third, that of transporting a large number 
of chronometers between England and America a number of times in 
succession and obtaining the average difference of time as indicated by 
the whole series. The determinations of the transatlantic longitude 
which have been obtained by these methods have been generally re- 
ferred to the Capitol at Washington and the Observatory at Greenwich, 
England, as standard points. From the several methods just men- 
tioned, and also from that of the electro-magnetic telegraph, the fol- 
lowing results have been obtained : 

From eclipses and occultations the difference in time 
between the dome of the Capitol and the Greenwich 
Observatory is ' 5^ 8"^ 14«.86 

From moon culminations the difference is 5^ 8"" 10M2 

From the transportation of chronometers the difference 
is 5^ 8=^ 12^30 

From the transmission of electricity through the cable, 
and the use of the electro-magnetic telegraph, the dif- 
ference was found to be 5'^ 8™ 12M5 

By the last method the difference of time between the ends of the . 
cable was j)robably determined within the fraction of a second, but as 
the signals could not be sent directly between Greenwich and 'Washiug- 
ton, a somewhat greater departure from the actual difference must be 
allowed. This difference is, however, verj- small, not exceeding, j)er- 
haps, a single second. 

The process of ascertaining the difference of time, or in other words, 
the difference of longitude of two points, by means of the telegraph, 
consists in transmitting a series of signals either way through the con- 
ductor, and in observing the exact time of the appearance of the signal 
at one station, while its time of starting is registered at the other. If 



20 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



the transmissioD of the signal were instantaneous, the difference of time 
observed would be the exact difference of longitude ; but if any time 
elapses between the making of the signal at one station and its appear- 
ance at the otlier, the difference of time will be greater than the true 
time when the signal is sent eastward, and less than it when sent west- 
ward. If tlie velocity of transmission be the same in both directions, 
the true difference of longitude will be obtained by taking the mean of 
two sets of differences, the one giving the longitude as much too great 
as the other gives it too small. 

From exi^eriments on the velocity of transmission of electrical im- 
pulses through long conductors, it is probable that the first part, as it 
were, of the electrical wave reaches the distant station in an inappre- 
ciable moment of time, but that in order to overcome the inertia, and 
give perceptible motion to the signal apparatus, an accumulation of 
power is required. The time necessary to this accumulation will 
depend on the weight, and other causes of resistance in the apparatus, 
and also on the intensity of the electrical current 5 hence, the two instru- 
ments ought to have i^recisely the same degree of sensitiveness, and the 
battery daring the continuance of the exi)eriment should retain the same 
electro-motive power. 

The method of telegraphing, employed with the cable, is that devised 
by Sir William Thomson, of Glasgow, and is founded on the ap])lica- 
tion of the principle of reflection first applied to instruments of pre- 
cision by our countryman, Joseph Saxton, of the Coast Survey. It 
consists of a mirror of about half an inch in diameter, to the back of 
which is attached a small magnetic needle, the joint weight of the two 
being less than one grain, which is suspended, by a single fiber from 
the cocoon, in the center of a coil of many spires of fine wire, forming 
part of the galvanic circuit. Upon this mirror is thrown a beam of 
light through a slit in front of a bright kerosene lamp, and the deflec- 
tions of the needle are noted by the movements of the reflected beam 
received upon a slip of white paper. The exquisite delicacy of this gal- 
vanometer, as well as the conducting j)ower of the telegraphic cable, 
may be appreciated from the result of an exijeriment in which signals 
were sent from Ireland to Newfoundland, a distance of 2,160 miles, by 
means of a battery composed of an ordinary percussion gun cap, in 
which was inserted a morsel of zinc and a drop of acidulated water. 

For determining the time in these observations, a small transit instru- 
ment, a chronograph, and an astronomical clock were required at each 
station, for the accommodation of which a temporary observatory was 
erected. The observations on the American side were in charge of Mr. 
G. W. Dean, with the assistance of Mr. E. Goodfellow, while those on 
the coast of Ireland, as well as the general du-ection of the enterprise, 
were under the charge of Dr. Gould, assisted by Mr. A. T. Mosman. 
The use of the cable was freely granted by the Anglo-American Com- 
pany, and Dr. Gould received from the astronomer royal, Dr. Airy, and 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

the elo-ctricians of the company, all the facilities and assistance neces- 
sary to the undertaking. The report contains a series of investigations 
relative to the time of transmission of signals, and other jioints, which 
san only be properly understood by a study of the work itself. 

The Annual Report for the year 1SG8 was printed, as usual, by order 
of Congress, and the extra number of ten thousand copies ordered. I 
would again urge upon Congress the propriety of increasing the num- 
ber of copies, since the demand has become so great that it is impossi- 
ble, with the number above mentioned, to meet the applications for them 
of the correspondents of the Institution or of the constituents of the 
members of Congress themselves. 

In addition to the report of the Secretary giving an account of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year, 
and the proceedings of the Board of Eegents, it contains the following 
articles : List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers in 
Korth America and adjacent islands, from 1849 up to the end of 18G8; 
IMemoirs of Cnvier, and history of his works, of Oersted, Schonbein, 
Encke, and Hodgkinson ; Articles on recent progress in relation to the 
theory of heat ; Principles of the mechanical theory of heat ; Continu- 
ous vibratorj' movement of all matter ; Eadiation ; Synthetic experi- 
ments relative to meteorites 5 Catalogue of meteorites in Yale College; 
The electric resonance of mountains ; Experiments on aneroid barome- 
ters ; Anniversary address of the president of the Eoyal Society of 
Victoria; Eeport of the transactions of the Society of Physics and 
Natural History of Geneva, and of the Authropological Society of Paris ; 
An original comnumication on drilling in stone without metal, and on a 
deposit of agricultural flint implements in Southern Illinois, by Charles 
Eau; I»J'otice of the Blackmore Museum, England; Programmes of 
several foreign societies ; An account of the assay of coins at the United 
States Mint ; Table of foreign coins ; and a complete list of the publi- 
cations of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Internationai, Exchanges. — The two objects of the bequest of 
Smithson, as briefly, though clearly, expressed in his will by the terms 
"increase" and "diffusion" of knowledge, are both fully provided for in 
the plan of organization. The increase of knowledge is principally- effect- 
ed by the researches that are instituted at the expense of the Smithson 
fund in the various branches of science, and the diffusion of knowledge 
by the publication of the results of these researches and their distribution 
to all the principal libraries of the world, and still more generally by 
the great system of international exchange which has been established. 
The effect of this system, in its present enlarged dimensions, in the way 
of facilitating direct correspondence between the scientific men of the 
Old and ISTew World, can scarcely be overestimated. 

During the year that has just closed, 1,734 packages, containing many 
thousand different articles, have been transmitted to 1,569 parties in 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

foreij^ii countries. These packages were coutained iu 112 boxes, having 
a cubical content in the aggregate of 1,033 feet, and weighing 23,376 
l)ounds. The packages were not only from institutions within the limits 
of the United States, but also from those iu Canada, Central and South 
America. The parcels received at the Institution for parties in this 
country numbered 2,000, about one-third more than were received during 
the preceding year. The separate volumes, parts of volumes, and pam- 
I)hlets contained in these parcels would amount to many times the num- 
ber just given, those for the Institution alone amounting, as will be sub- 
sequently stated, to 5,555. When it is considered that these works are 
the published original records of the discoveries of the day in the various 
branches of science; that they mark the i)rogress of man in a higher 
civilization, and that the system of exchange tends to unite in one effort, 
as it were, the labors of those who are endeavoring to enlarge the bounds 
of knowledge, it is imiJossible to conceive of a system more efficient or 
better calculated for realizing one of the conceptions of Smithson, that 
of diffusing knowledge among men. 

The exchanges thus far have principally been confined to books, 
although large numbers of specimens have been sent abroad on the part of 
the Institution. Full returns have not yet been asked for these, but one 
of the conditions on which the specimens are given is that whenever the 
government shall see fit to make X)i"ovision for the full support of a 
national museum, then specimens will be required in return. It is 
proper to state, however, that in all cases in which the Institution has 
signified its desire to obtain specimens for special investigations, or 
for the illustration of a i)articular subject, such as geology and anthro- 
pology, liberal responses have been made. 

The Smithson packages, with the single exception of those for Italy, 
are passed through all the custom-houses of the world free of duty and 
without examination ; and this exception will, we think, be removed as 
soon as the negotiations now iu progress are completed. Efficient aid 
duiing 1869, as in previous years, has been rendered the Institution in 
the transportation of its packages to and from the United States, free 
of charge, by the following companies, viz: The Pacific Mail Steamship 
Company, IsTorth German Lloyd, Hamburg American Steamship Com- 
pany, General Transatlantic Steamship Company, Pacific Steam Navi- 
gation Company, Inman Steamship Company, Cunard Steamship Com- 
pany, California and Mexico Steamship Company, Panama Eaih^oad 
Compauy, Mexican Steamship Company, Union Pacific Eailroad, United 
States and Brazil Steamship Company, North German Lloyd, (Balti- 
more line,) and the Atlantic Mail Steamship Company. It gives me 
much pleasure to make this public statement in regard to an act which 
deserves commendation, not only on account of the liberal spirit which 
it manifests, but also on that of the enlightened appreciation which it 
evinces of the objects of the Institution. Notwithstanding the aid 
which has been thus liberally extended, the cost of tlie exchanges now 
amounts to about $5,000 per annum. 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

The following are the centers to which the Smithson invoices are 
consigned : Lcipsic, care of Dr. Felix Flligel ; Loudon, care of William 
Wesley; Paris, care of Gnstave Bo^sauge ; Amsterdam, care of Frederic 
Miiller; Milan, care of L. dell' Acqua; Christiana, care of Professor 
Hoist, of the University. The packages for Asia, Africa, and Oceanica 
are principally sent through Loudon or the American Missionary- Socie- 
ties. The invoices to South America are forwarded, through the gra- 
tuitous services of Mr. Hillier, of the New York custom-house, by 
regular trading vessels from that city. 

In 1SG7 a proposition was made to the Institution by the Librarian of 
Congress relative to establishing and conducting a system of exchange 
of official documents between the government of the United States and 
that of other nations. In accordance with this, a circular was addressed 
to the different governments having relations with the United States 
for the purpose of ascertaining their views as to such an exchange. Jn 
every case the proposition was regarded with favor, and at the ensuing 
session of Congress an act was passed directing that fifty full sets of all 
documents published at the Government Printing Office should be set 
apart for the purpose in question, and appropriating a sufficient sum to 
defray the necessary expenses. Unfortunately, however. Congress 
neglected to direct the Public Printer to strike off the copies requisite 
for this purpose, in addition to the regular number previously required 
for the use of the government, and it was not until recently that the 
necessary legislation was procured to remedy this omission. As soon 
as the printing aud binding of the documents of the last session of 
Congress are completed the proposed exchange will be initiated. In 
anticipation of the receipt of the annual supply of the documents of 
our government, several large packages containing documents of foreign 
countries have been already received. 

On account of the large additions that have been made of late years 
to the number of societies and other parties in correspondence with the 
Institutiou, a new and revised edition of the list of the former became 
necessary, and this was prepared during the last year. In order to 
insure accuracy in the titles and localities of the various establish- 
ments, proof-slips of the list were sent to the leading foreign societies 
through our agents, and also to the diplomatic representatives in this 
country. In all cases prompt attention was given to our request, and 
many important corrections and suggestions were received. This list, 
which now numbers 1,587 literary and scientific establishments, is not 
only essential to the Institution in addressing its foreign packages, but 
also, for a similar purpose, to the libraries and societies in different parts 
of the United States, Canada, and South America. 

Library. — The works, which have been received from all i^arts of the 
world in exchange for the publications of the Institution, after being 
recorded are transferred to the National Library, agreeably to the 



24 EEPOET OF THE SECRETAEY. 

arangements described in former reports. Tlie following is a general 
statement of tbe number of books, maps, and charts received tlirougli 
exchange during 18G9 : 
Yolumes : 

Octavo 946 

Qnarto 245 

Folio 43 

1,234 

Parts of volumes and pamphlets : 

Octavo 3, 238 

Quarto 709 

Folio 142 

4,089 

Maps and charts 232 

Total 5, 555 



Of the larger donations received during the year in question are the 
following : 

From Iceland Foundation Library, Eeikiavik, 44 volumes and 12 
pamphlets. 

Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, 5G volumes and 5 pam- 
phlets. 

From the Emperor of Austria, 8 volumes and 9 charts. 

Public Library, Stuttgart, 118 volumes. 

University, Greifswalde, 114 pamphlets. Inaugural Dissertations. 

From the Institut de France, 31 volumes. 

Ministere de la Marine et des Colonies, Paris, G volumes and 40 pam- 
phlets. 

Commission Imperiale de I'Exposition Universelle de 18G7, Eapports 
du Jury Internatioual, volumes i-xiii. 

Societe de Statistique, Paris, 13 volumes and 28 pamphlets. 

Academie de Montpellier, Faculte de Medecine, 22 volumes, Theses. 

From the Society of Engineers, London, 8 volumes. Transactions. 

British Museum, 9 volumes and 8 pamphlets. 

Eoyal Archaeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland, 20 volumes, 
Journal. 

From the Bombay Government, 15 volumes, Selections from the 
Eecords of the Bombay Government. 

National University, Athens, Greece, 37 volumes and 132 pamphlets. 

Legislative Assembly of Canada, 17 volumes. 

State of Minnesota, G volumes, Plate, Documents. 

C. M. Hovey, editor Boston Magazine of Horticulture, Botany, &c., 
35 volumes. 

The Smithson books have been well cared for by Mr. Spofford, the 
efficient Librarian of Congress. Several thousand have been bound, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

and a large number are now in the bands of tbe binder, eacb vohime 
being marked on the back with a stamp indicating that it is a Smithson 
deposit. 

In the arrangement of the National Library the publications of learned 
societies, of which the Smithson books principally consist, form one 
chapter of the general collection, which occupies the greater portion of 
the south wing of the western projection of the Capitol. It is desired 
by the Institution, as well as by the National Library, that this collec- 
tion should be as complete as possible in the publications of all learned 
societies which have existed from their first establishment in Italy, about 
the middle of the sixteenth centmy, until the present time. Through 
the kindness of the older societies of Europe a larger collection of their 
publications has been made b.y this Institution than was ever before 
formed in this country, or, with few exceptions, in any of the cities of 
the Old World. Still, there are many series wanting, and several of 
those now in our possession are defective ; exertions will therefore be 
made, through our correspondents, to supply deficiencies. The value of 
the scientific collections as well as of the general library will be much 
enhanced by the catalogue of books, and particularly that of subjects now 
in progress, and which, as we are informed, will be completed during the 
present year. The third volume of the index of scientific papers, pre- 
pared by the Eoyal Society of London, has been printed and will soon 
be distributed. The completion of this great work will have an import- 
ant influence on the use of the National Library, to which it will be 
especially applicable. 

The national library has increased so rapidly during the past three years, 
that the three-fold space allotted to it in the Capitol is now iusufiicient for 
its accommodation. Further room, as we learn, has been asked for, 
and we would suggest that this might be best secnred by the erection 
of a separate building, in whose plan of construction should be incor- 
porated all the latest improvements for the use and protection of books. 
But whatever may be done in this way, greater facilities thau now 
exist for the consultation of the library should be afforded, by making 
it accessible in the evenings to those who are iirecluded from the use of 
its collections by their ofiicial occupation during the hours at which it 
is now open. 

Gallery of Art. — It was stated in the last report that Mr. W. W. 
Corcoran, with an enlightened liberality only commensurate with his 
means, had resolved to found in AVashington an institution exclusively 
devoted to art. This design,which would long since have been carried into 
execution, was interrupted by the war, the building erected fii>r the pur- 
pose havingbeen applied to the uses of the government ; but we are gratified 
in being able to state that the possession of it has been restored to Mr. 
Corcoran, and that he has placed it in charge of trustees, who are to fill 
vacancies in their board and direct aU the afiairs of the establishment. 



26 RErORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The gallery will probably be open for exliibitlon to the public and to 
students in art during the present year. The establishment of this col- 
lection, as we have said in a i:)revious report, will obviate the neces- 
sity of expending any of the funds of the Institution in supporting a 
national gallery, and I would suggest that the same policy whicb has 
directed the transfer of the library, the herbarium, and osteological 
specimens to the National Library, the Agricultural Department, and 
the Medical Museum, be also extended to the Corcoran Gallery. The 
Institution has a number of pictures and a large collection of plaster 
busts, which are scarcely in place in the midst of specimens of natural 
history, but which would produce a better effect in connection with other 
works of art of a similar character. There need be no danger as to 
impoverishing the Institution by this liberal policy, since it is in reality 
but another method of increasing its usefulness. 

Tbe saving which is made by transferring the keeping of the library 
and botanical collections can scarcely be estimated at less than .$12,000 
13er annum, a sum which adds to the efficiency of the Institution in the 
way of increasing, by the exchange of its products, the collections of 
objects of nature and art in the national capital, besides adding to the 
intellectual wealth of the whole country. 

Museum, — During the past year the space occupied by the museum 
has been enlarged by appropriating to it the portion of the building 
known as the western connecting range, which consists of a room 61 
feet long by 38 feet wide. On either side of this room has been erected 
a row of (seven) upright cases, and in the middle a series of tables ex- 
tending the whole length of the apartment. The upright cases on the 
south side have been entirely filled with ethnological specimens from 
China and Japan, comprising the presents from the governments of these 
countries to the President of the United States. In the cases on the 
north side is arranged a large and valuable collection of the dresses of 
the Indians of the northwest coast and of the Esquimaux of North 
America. The table cases are also filled with ethnological specimens, 
among which are many exhibiting the rarer specimens of Indian work- 
manship, and also those of prehistoric times, from the explored caverns 
of France, presented by Professor Lartet. 

During the year 1869, 390 packages, containing many new specimens 
and thousands of duplicates, have been received at the Institution, and 
of these, as far as time would permit, a single choice series has been 
selected for the museum ; the remainder are placed aside to be classified 
and made up into labeled sets for distribution. In pursuing this policy, 
to which the Institution is bound by its office of curator of the govern- 
ment collections, it is impossible to restrict the increase of the museum, 
and now, notwithstanding the great number of specimens that have 
been given a\\ay, nearly the whole of the available space in the building- 
is filled to overflowing. An appropriation for finishing the large hall in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

the second story is, therefore, very desirable, but as this room is wanted 
for the accommodation of the National Museum, and not for the uses of 
the Institution, it "U'ould be highly imi)roper to finish it by a further en- 
croachment upon the capital of the Smithson fund. 

We have mentioned in a previous report that the architecture of the 
large room, in which the specimens are at present exhibited, is not well 
adapted to an advantageous display of many of the articles, since a 
considerable portion of the space is occupied by two rows of colossal 
columns, betv>'een which and the walls the cases, forming alcoves, are 
placed. The ceiling, however, of the hall in the second story is to be 
attached to the long, iron girders which span the space from wall to 
wall, and it will not, therefore, require the introduction of columns. It 
is hoped that in the fiuishiug of this room the primary object of its use 
will be kept in view, namely, the exhibition of specimens. There is 
pleasure in perfect adaptation as well as in jesthetical eflt'ect ; the two, 
however, are not incompatible, and a proper conception of the true 
spirit of architecture will never sacrifice the former to obtain the latter. 

Since the date of the last report the museum has been increased by 
specimens in every branch of natural history and ethnology, especially 
in those of ornithology and the products of the explorations of mounds. 
An unusual amount of labor has also been expended on the specimens 
during the same period. The large number of birds in the drawers, as 
well as those on exhibition, have been re-poisoned to prevent the attack 
of insects, while those in the cases have been furnished with new stands, 
and their plumage brightened by washing them with benzine. The cases 
themselves have been repaired and painted. The mounting of the 
archaeological collections on boards, and the repairing of the articles of 
pottery, have been continued, and are now nearly completed. The speci- 
mens of quadrupeds belonging to the older collections of the govern- 
ment present rather an unsightly" appearance, through injury by insects 
before they were brought from the Patent Office, and because they were 
not well prepared. Many of them, however, are very rare, and should 
be kept until better specimens can be obtained. 

No small amount of labor is required, in a large museum, to keep up 
a descriptive catalogue of the various articles it receives, and to this 
work alone the entire time of a clerk might properly be devoted. The 
whole number of entries in the catalogue of the National Murseum is 
now 158,GG2; and of these 10,265 were made during the last year, while 
of the specimens of the general collection of which no types have been 
selected for exhibition many thousands of entries yet remain to be in- 
serted. 

By the cooperation previously alluded to in this report, the Army 
Medical Museum, the Museum of the Agricultural Department, and the 
National Museum are rendered supplemeutary to each other, each col- 
lecting and preserving articles that are not contained in the others. 
The Commissioner of Agriculture, General Capron, has shown much 



28 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

zeal and good faith in carrying ont the conditions previously mentioned, 
on which the transfer of the plants was made, by fitting up a sjjacious 
room with cases which contain 600 separate compartments for the recep- 
tion of as many different families of i)lants, and by appointing a bot- 
anist fully approved by the Institution. Dr. Parry, the botanist in 
question, was a pupil of Dr. Torrey, and for the last twenty years has 
been engaged in various government explorations, mostly in the western 
part of the United States. He was warmly recommended by the first 
botanists of the country, and, I doubt not, will discharge the duties of 
his office to the satisfaction of all interested in the advancement of this 
branch of natural history. He has begun to arrange the plants in sys- 
tematic order for immediate reference, and finds the number of species 
to be about 15,000, included in 25,000 specimens. The additions that 
have been made to the collection during the past year, embracing those 
which have been supplied by the Institution and the Department itself, 
according to Dr. Parry number 8,000 specimens, including 3,000 species. 
Besides the specimens of dried plants transferred to the Agricultural 
Department, a large and interesting collection of woods, from Mexico 
and South America, has been added to the deposit. 

Lectures. — Previous to the fire which destroyed the upper portion of 
the main building, in 18G5, courses of free lectures were given by the 
Institution to the visitors and citizens of Washington. These at first, 
or as long as the novelty continued, were well attended, but in time, 
owing, in part, to the difidculty of access, in the winter season, to the 
building, and the absorption of the public mind by the events of the 
war, the interest diminished, while the management of the system be- 
came much more difficult, inasmuch as it was impossible to prevent the 
introduction of political subjects. The call, however, on the i)art of the 
citizens for lectures has lately been renewed. But it must be evident, 
on a little reflection and from past experience, that the original plan 
cannot again be adopted without great inconvenience and an expense 
not commensurate with the value of the results produced. In order, 
however, to assist in the establishing in this city, during the present 
winter, of a course of lectures on scientific subjects, and at a low price 
of admission, it has been thought advisable to grant a moderate ap- 
propriation to the Young Men's Christian Association, to enable it to 
secure the services of distinguished popular lecturers. The building 
which has been erected by this society not only serves as an ornament to the 
city, but supplies a want long felt in affording a spacious hall for lec- 
tures, conventions, «&c. The lectures to which the Institution con 
tributed were of a scientific character, requiring expensive illustration, 
and, therefore, though they were well attended, they could not have 
been given at the low i^rice charged for admission, had not aid been 
afforded. 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

Explorations and Collections in Natural History.— In tliis re- 
port, as in other of tlie Smithsonian reports, a distinction is made between 
the collections of the Institution and those of the National Museum under 
its charge. The former consists of the large number of specimens (in some 
instances including hundreds of duplicates of rare as well as of more com- 
mon species) which have been collected under the auspices of the lustitu 
tion or through its special agency. These are studied and classified by 
experts for the formation of monographs and the determination of species 
and their geographical distribution; or, as is the case in ethnological speci- 
mens, are comi^ared for the purpose of tracing anthropological peculiari- 
ties; and, finally, made up into properly labeled sets for distribution to 
museums in this country and abroad. The organization of explorations 
and the collection of specimens would be important parts of the oper- 
ations of the Institution were it entirely disconnected from the National 
Museum. Natural history and ethnology are interesting branches of 
knowledge, and justly merit a portion of the Smithson i)atronage; but 
the National Museum has no just claim on the Institution other than for 
a perfect series of all the duplicates collected; and it is too much to ask, 
in addition to this, that the Smithson fund should continue to provide 
it with house-room, and, in a large degree, with attendance. The dis- 
tinction we have made is an obvious one, though it may be difficult, in 
some instances, to draw a line between the specimens in the museum and 
those of the Smithsonian collections. 

Explorations and collections in Natural History have been con- 
tinued, as in l)re^dous years, by the Institution alone, or in connection 
with other establishments. In giving an account of what has been done 
under this head, the geographical order adopted in other of the Smith- 
sonian reports will be followed. 

Xorthwest Coast of America. — Mr. McFarlane and Mr. McDougal still 
continue to collect specimens of the natural products of the Mackenzie 
Eiver district. Mr. Ferdinand Bischotf has kept up his researches in 
Alaska, first at Kodiak, then at Kenai. Major General George H. 
ThomaSy of the United States Army, has rendered especial service in 
collecting in the same region specimens of coal and of zoology. The 
remainder of the natural history collections of Mr. Dall, referred to 
in the last report, has been received and found of much interest as an 
illustration of the natural productions of our new possessions in the 
Northwest. His collections in ethnology will be mentioned further on. 
Captain C. M. Scammon has continued his explorations, and has pre- 
sented interesting collections from Alaska and Puget Sound, in addition 
to several communications relative to the natural history and habits of 
the seals of the adjacent coast. Dr. Minor has also continued his valu- 
able contributions from the same region. 

Western United States. — The geological survey of the fortieth parallel, 
under Mr. Clarence King, referred to in the last report, has been con- 
tinued during this year, and the collections made in zoology, botany, 



30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

mineralogy, and geology, liave beeu deposited in the Institution. They 
arc no\y in process of examination, and an account of them will be given 
in tlie valuable report of Mr. King, which Congress has ordered to be 
printed. At the last session of Congress an appropriation of $10,000 
was made for the continuance of the geological surveys of Dr. F. Y. 
Hayden. He was instructed by the Department of the Interior, under 
whose direction the money was to be expended, to examine especially 
the geology, mineralogy, and agricultural resources of the Territories of 
Colorado and New Mexico. The exploration began at Cheyenne, Wy- 
oming Territory, and was continued through Denver, the silver and 
gold mining regions of Georgetown and Central City, the Middle Park, 
Colorado City, and Fort Union to Santa Fe, returning to Denver by way 
of the San Luis Valley and South Park. In the language of the Secre- 
tary of the Interior, "this exploration, though brief and rapid, was emi- 
nently successful, and the collections in geology, mineralogy, botany, and 
zoology were extensive." These collections have been deposited in the 
Institution, from which they will be sent for examination to persons who 
have made special study of the branches of natural history and zoology 
to which the specimens pertain. 

Mexico and Central America. — The explorations of Colonel Grayson, 
in Northwestern Mexico, spoken of in previous reports, were continued 
in the early part of the year, and an additional series of specimens 
transmitted to the Institution. It is, however, with deep regret we have 
to announce that the labors of this enthusiastic and enterprising nat- 
uralist were suddenly terminated by death, from fever contracted in an 
attempt to explore the Island of Isabella. By his decease the Institu- 
tion has lost a highly-valued correspondent, and the cause of science a 
successful cultivator. He devoted many years of his life to the devel- 
opment of the natural history and physical geography of Northwestern 
Mexico and the adjacent islands; and it is much to be regretted that he 
had not lived to complete the work in which he was so much interested. 
The explorations of Professor Sumichrast, on the Isthmus of Tehuan- 
tepec, have been nearly completed, and the large number of well-pre- 
served specimens in all branches of zoology, received at the Institution 
from this region, attest his continued enthusiasm and persevering indus- 
try. From our veteran correspondent. Dr. C. Sartorius, of Mirador, 
important collections have been received during the past year. 

South America. — Mr. Hudson, of Buenos Ayres, and Mr. Keeve, of 
Ecuador, have furnished a continuation of the results of their orni- 
thological explorations in these localities, while an interesting series of 
the birds of Demerara has been contributed by Colonel Figyeimesy. 

Most of the collaborators just mentioned have furnished information 
in regard to the physical geography and the inhabitants of the country 
from which the specimens were derived, and in this way the Institution 
has accumulated a large amount of manuscript material relative to the 
natural history, geology, and ethnology of the different parts of North 
America, not generally known. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

Explorations and Collections in Ethnology. — Duriug tlie past 
year the eflort has been contiuued to increase the collections of ethnoloj^y 
and archaeology of the I^orth American continent. It has been considered 
of special importance to prosecute this subject, since the remains of 
the ancient i)eople ^vho have inhabited this continent are everj* year be- 
coming more rare. The mounds are disai^pearing in the process of 
agriculture, in the construction of railways, or in the extension of cities, 
and their interesting contents destroyed or scattered beyond the hope of • 
future recover}'. A very extensive correspondence on this subject has 
been kept up during the year with persons in every part of North 
America, soliciting information and specimens, giving directions for 
examining mounds and shell-heaps, and in several cases making a small 
appropriation for defraying the expenses of special investigations. 

Nearly all the explorers mentioned in previous reports have contri- 
buted valuable material in this line. During his visit to the Bay of 
Fundy, Professor Baird, of this Institution, made extensive explorations 
among the ancient shell-heaiis and gathered some facts and specimens 
of much importance in connection with the subject of the American 
Kjoekkenmoedding. In these labors he was assisted by Mr. G. A. Board- 
man, Professor H. G. Webster, Professor Nelson, Mr. Elias Kiuny, Mr. 
Gardner, Mr. Hallett, and also by Captain Treadway, of the United 
States revenue service. 

As ethnology is a branch of study ^hich, at this time, is occupying 
popular attention, it may be proper to give a more detailed account 
than usual of the additions that have been made in this line during the 
year which has just closed. This account is compiled from the descrip- 
tive inventory made b^^ Dr. Foreman, under the direction of Professor 
Baird, in a record book of the collections. For convenience of reference 
the geographical division is adopted. 

British America, Arctic Region. — Mr. Eobert McFarlane, stationed at 
Fort Anderson, one of the Hudson Bay Company's posts in the McKen- 
zie Eiver district, with unabated perseverance, has continued making 
collections in natural history and ethnology, and has presented to the 
Institution, with a liberality which cannot be too much commended, a 
great number and variety of articles to illustrate the character of the 
people among whom he has so long resided. Intercourse with traders and 
others has considerably modified their arts of life, and they now pre- 
sent an example of a people in a state of transition from the stone to 
the iron age. Among the articles from Mr. McFarlane, which illustrate 
this change, are knives of pieces of iron hoops, spear-heads and fish- 
hooks of the same material; pipe-bowls of copper and of pewter, and a 
drilling apparatus, with an ordinary bow and drills tipped with bits of 
steel; boxes, of which the parts are fastened together with wooden 
nails, iron being too precious to be used for this purpose; other boxes, 
of which the jiarts are joined in the more ancient fiishion by stretching 
over them, in a moist condition, a casing of leather. 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The greater part, however, of the articles are of a primitive cliaracter, 
among which, for out-door use, are dog harness, lassos of moose-hide for 
large animals, and more slender ones, carrying rounded pieces of bone, 
nut size, to entangle the legs of geese; ditt'erent models of the sledge 
for hauling wood and provisions; a stretcher of deer-skin; bows, with 
arrows, quivers, and cases ; a long line of whalebone for fishing ; a net 
of sinew, with bone fish-hooks, fishing floats, spears, throwing-sticks, 
spear-rests for the deck of the canoe; a whistle or call used in hunting; 
snow shoes and models of canoes; screens of wood to protect the eyes 
from snow blink, concave on the inner side, with two very narrow slits 
for looking through. Of the articles relative to indoor occupation are 
deer-skin boots; white and black wolverine gloves; children's garments, 
neatly made, of soft materials ; capuchons, or coverings for the head ; 
tools, with which this and other work is performed, such as awls, drills, 
polishing implements, of either jasper or carnelian, frequently of bone; 
a small leather bag of red paint, with pitch or other cementing material. 
There are also needles of bone, needle cases of ivory, i)ouches ornament- 
ed with beads, for containing sewing fiber. Bunches of this material, 
arranged as if for a chignon, appear to belong to articles used by 
women. A rattle of deer or musk-ox hoofs, nsed in dancing, and bone 
implements for gambling, suggest the character of native amusements. 

From the same district have been received, through the Eev. W. W. 
Kirkby, a leather i^ouch, filled with quills of the porcupine, which are 
used to ornament moccasins, belts, and fire bags; also a fur coat made 
by the Dog Eib Indians. There are not many articles of personal 
decoration, except some labrets, thick buttons of white limestone, and 
bits of blue glass, cemented together, to be worn in a slit of the corner 
of the mouth after the manner of a sleeve button. 

A1asl-a. — The collections of Mr. W. H. Dall in the Aleutian Islands, 
at Norton Sound, and in the Yukon region, mentioned in the last report, 
have been received and are found to be very extensive and interesting. 
Those from the Aleutian Islands are specimens of native carving in 
walrus ivory, which exhibit considerable imitative skill in copying the 
forms of objects introduced by white traders. Among them are a table 
knife and two spoons, neatly executed. The greater part, however, of 
Mr. DalPs collection are from the various tribes of Esquimaux living on 
the shores of Norton Sound, more particularly the articles of clothing 
made of furs and leather, prepared from the skins of the deer and other 
animals. These consist of outer and inner garments, for both sexes, and 
of boots, gloves, and mittens. It would appear from the specimens that 
the skins of the larger fishes, and also of the seal, are used for articles 
of dress, adapting the material to the change required for winter and 
summer. From the region of the Eiver Yukon there are snow-shoes, 
moccasins, fur dresses, straw-shoes and boots, for riding and dancing, 
all made and used by the Mahlemuts. The domestic implements of 
the peoijle are exhibited in a series of spoons or dippers, made of the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

broad horns of the Eocky Mountain sheep, wooden bowls, ladles, platters, 
cups, and trays ; bags and haversacks made of seal or fish skin, of all 
sizes, universally used by the Esquimaux for keeping* provisions and other 
materials; also earthenware lamps, firebars with flint, steel, and tinder; 
tobacco pouches, pipes, and snuff-boxes. The articles made of seal-skin 
on the coast are imitated farther up the river in the skins of the larger 
fishes, the intercourse between the localities being difficult since the pass- 
es are held by a few trading Indians, who act as middle men in exchanging 
commodities and as guards to prevent access to the coast. From the 
Unaleets there are neatly-made housewives of fish-skin, and from the 
Pastolic Esquimaux a small workbag woven of grass, ivory needle cases 
ornamented with blue beads, and a store of thread made of filaments of 
dried sinews. The weapons received are interesting illustrations of the 
character and habits of the people. The bows in this collection, used 
by the Esquimaux for killing large birds or fish, are of very un- 
usual weight, and many of the arrows employed in shooting 
the wild goose are tipped with a blunt knob. The sharp arrow- 
points are the most beautiful and delicate of any we have seen, and are^ 
of obsidian, green jasper, or glass. The seal and fish lines are of the 
long, flexible stems of a fucus which grows in deep water and equals 
whalebone in tenacity and toughness. The harpoons for striking seals 
are furnished with a horn or bone termination, carrying a barbed jioint, 
the whole being detachable from the shaft. From the Ekogmut there 
are several of these, with others used in killing the whale f also models 
of canoes, oars, &c., from the Lower Ingaleeks along the Yukon and the 
Unaleets on the coast. In the way of personal ornament there are a 
quantity of red paint and a yoke, or necklace, oval pieces of wood or 
stone to be inserted in a slit in the lower lip, the nose, or the ear; fin- 
ger-rings, principally of stone, of two kinds, one of which is used on 
mourning and the other on ordinary occasions. 

Aleutian Islands. — From the Aleutian Islands there are in Mr. Dall's 
collection several hideous masks of gigantic dimensions used in the 
ceremonies of the people. Dr. T. T. Minor, surgeon United States rev- 
enue steamer Wayanda, Captain Howard, commander, who visited 
Sitka, Kodiak, Unalaska and some points of the Aleutian group, has 
furnished collections exhibiting the dress, occupations, and habits of the 
Coloshes, Nuhegags, and Aleutes. The scarcity of stone implements in 
this collection is worthy of notice, since but two specimens, a pestle and 
axe, are all that were found, and these were regarded as very ancient. 
Among the articles are the following : Heavy corded bows for fishing, 
armed with three prongs; blunt spears, with barbs, and fish spears 
ornamented with feathers ; lines of sea-weed or kelp, with detachable 
spear-heads; throwing-sticks, to give a longer leverage in projecting the 
spear. Thereare also chisels for making apertures in the ice, to which fish' 
resort for air; dog sledges, canoes, paddles, reindeer skin overcoats and, 
boots ; an overall perfectly waterproof, and exceedingly light, made 
3s 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of the intestines of the seal, the edges being sewed or cemented, and 
the whole ornamented with tufts of hair or feathers in brilliant colors. 
Glimpses of in-door arts and employments are obtained from specimens 
of carvings, baskets, woven articles, sewing, paintings, and implements, 
together Avith tlie ever-present pipe, of which there is one with a deco- 
rated stem, carved by a Colosh. The illnstratious are furtlier extended 
by wooden trays and dishes, ornamented with carved figures of animals ; 
water- tight baskets, in which provisions are boiled by dropping red-hot 
stones into the water ; mats of simple checquer pattern ; carved 
handles of the black horn of the Eocky Mountain goat, exhibiting an 
intricate series of ornaments, and fastened by the aid of heat and pres- 
sure to the broader horn of the moose, or of the Eocky Mountain sheep, 
to form a sj)oon or a ladle. Among the carvings is a remarkable series 
in walrus ivory of objects in miniature, representing table knives, spoons, 
candlesticks, boiling kettles, with covers, coijiedfrom objects introduced 
by foreigners; also the animals of the country, such as beaver, moose, 
whales, seals; a female otter followed by her young; likewise a man 
spearing a bear; a group of men attacking a reindeer, and several other 
human figures. These miniature specimens of carvings, which are exe- 
cuted with great neatness and fidelity, evince a minute observation of 
nature, as well as considerable skill in art. A Colosh painter's kit 
belonging to this collection, contains a number of brushes A'ery neatly 
made and of sizes suitable for fine or coarse work. Although the assort- 
ment of colors is small, being limited to red, blue, yellow, and black, yet 
the whole collection of specimens relative to art shows an advance in 
this line beyond anything before observed in the northern races. Among 
other articles is the dance rattle, commonly used by the coast tribes, and 
consisting of a hollow, oval, wooden box, usually in the form of a bird, 
gaily i)ainted, containing pebbles; also head ornaments, of grotesque 
form ; head dresses, with wooden masks, having distorted features ; like- 
wise ornaments of stone finely executed, and representing birds, fish, and 
serpents in the form of a ring; besides numerous samples of the same in 
wood and bone. 

From Lieutenant T. M. Eing, United States Army, stationed at Fort 
Wraugel, in Alaska, we have received an important collection of ob- 
jects, among which are models of the hardoslxi, or canoe, with i^addles, 
of very neat workmanship ; the head of a fish spear, and several bul- 
lets made of copper ; two fish-hooks of a metal resembling silver, 
and halibut hooks of wood ; also two specimens illustrating the form in 
which provisions are preserved for winter use, one of which is a spheri- 
cal ball of the fruit of Ruhus chammnorus, and the other is the com*- 
pressed inner bark of a coniferous tree, which nuiy serve to allay hun- 
ger by distending the stomach. A stone hammer and two pestles are 
samples of articles still in use, and an ancient barbed and notched bone 
fish spear exhibits the forms of similar implements discovered in the 
prehistoric caves of Europe. A full series of carved wooden dishes 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

and of horn spoons illustrate the table service of the natives, ^vhile 
masks, rattles of wood and of basket-work, neck and lip ornaments of 
stone, a dressed doll with a head carved in stone, a human image, and a 
bird of the same material, exhibit some of the occupations and amuse- 
ments of this primitive people. From Mr. E. E. Smith, of the scientific 
corps of the Western Union Telegraph Company, the Institution has 
received a bow and arrows of the Smagamut Indians, for shooting wild 
geese; and from Dr. A. H. Hofif, United States Army, a very fine sample 
of the membranous waterproof dresses used by the Alaskans, also a 
pair of carved chop-sticks of whalebone. The latter articles were received 
through the officers of the Army Medical Museum. 

Washington Territory. — From this quarter we have obtained collections 
made by Dr. J. T. Ghiselin, United States Army, stationed in Washing- 
ton Territory, consisting of bow, quiver and arrows in use among the 
Flathead Indians; also, a number of arrow-heads and a pair of mocca- 
sins, collected among the Cascade Indians; we have also a riding whip, 
wedding hat or bonnet, a berry basket, and specimens of food i)reserved 
for winter, consisting of the eggs of the salmon, of the size and consist- 
ence of dried peas. Dr. Whitehead, United States Army, also trans- 
mits from the same region some bones exhumed from a shell mound, 
and a metal spoon from an ladian grave. 

Idaho Territory. — From among the Nez Perces, Dr. E. Storror, United 
States Army, has collected specimens of preserved food, consisting 
of the bulbs of the camas, Scilla csculenta, and the kouse bread, an 
unleavened mass, an inch thick, of the seeds of wild rice, Zezania aqua- 
tica, pounded up with water, and baked. Accompanying these are spear- 
heads of flint and iron, strong hair rope or lariat, a woman's saddle, 
blanket, panniers, a drum, a carved jiipe stick, and a handsome pipe of 
red stone, a skull cap of woven grass, a comb, sewing awl, thread, an 
ornamented belt worn by a woman, and a model of a cradle, afibrdiiig 
glimpses of domestic life. Dr. C. Wagner, United States Army, has for- 
warded a bow, quiver, arrows, and arrow-heads, obtained from the Snake 
Indians ; and Hospital Steward E. Lyons, a basket, woven scoop, and 
bow and arrow from the same tribe. From Montana, Dr. li. B. Hitz 
has transmitted a stone pestle. 

Utah Territory. — Dr. H. E. Waters, United States Army, stationed at 
Fort Bridger, in Wj'oming Territory, has collected and forwarded some of 
the implements of war and the chase used by the Shoshone, Bannock. 
Ute, and Navajo Indians, consisting of a bow and arrows, a bow case, 
quiver, tomahawk, and war club. The arrows of the Navajos are said 
to be poisoned. From Dr. Meacham, United States Armj^, have been 
received fragments of pottery found in the same Territory. 

Oregon Territory. — Dr. C. ]Moflfat, United States Army, has presented 
a small but interesting collection from Oregon, near the vicinity of 
Malheur Eiver and the Stein Mountain. In it we find the bow, quiver, 
and arrows of the Malheur Eiver Indians, a drinking cup, fire stick, pain/ 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

bag, carved wooden comb, and beads; also a specimen of preserved food, 
consisting of camas root, dried and compressed into a thin cake. 
These Indians are somewhat away from the beaten route, and everything 
from them is of much interest. 

California. — From mounds in Alameda County, California, examined 
by Dr. L. G. Yates, who has frequently contributed articles of interest 
from that State, we have received many specimens of the ancient stone 
age, consisting of stone pestles, perforators or awls, sinkers, a phallus, 
spindles, a soapstone ladle, stone mortar and pestle, pipe bowls, shell 
and perforated stone ornaments, an ancient awl and serrated implements 
of bone. The race of Indians at present occupying the country are said 
to be entirely ignorant of the art of making tliese objects and of their 
use. From the Pott Kiver Indians, California, Dr. Powell, United 
States Army, has sent a bow, quiver and arrows; and from the Pah Utes 
of Owen's Valley, California, we have similar weapons from Dr. Th. 
McMillan, United States Army, who has likewise contributed a war club 
of the Mohaves. 

Nevada. — Clarence King, esq., director of the United States geological 
survey in Nevada, presented a portion of a beautifully worked pestle of 
syenite, obtained in Lower California. 

Dalcoia. — The post surgeons stationed at the military posts on the 
Upper Missouri, chiefly within the Territory of Dakota, have shown 
much zeal in collecting objects to illustrate the pursuits and customs of 
the numerous tribes occupying the country bordering on this river. 
First among these, in point of interest, are the collections of Surgeon 
C. C. Gray and Dr. Matthews, United States Army, stationed for some 
time at Fort Berthold. From the Maudans they have furnished a head 
dress mounted with buffalo horns, with an ornamental pendant of dressed 
buffalo hide falling behind the head ; a war shield of the Gros Ventres, 
with bow, case, quiver and arrows, in the highest style of Indian orna- 
mentation ; a bow of the Arickarees, ingeniously fashioned of an elk 
horn ; a stone hatchet from the same, together with the scalp taken from 
a Blackfoot Indian ; also from the Yanktonnais Sioux, a hoe, made of the 
shoulder blade of an elk, accompanied by a wooden saddle and append- 
ages, a pad saddle, a whip with a horn handle, parfleche meat case, 
sheath for a scalp knife, and a rake of wooden material. The Maudans 
and the Berthold Indians generally, are addicted to gambling, and 
accordingly in the collection there are dice, and a small basket to contain 
them ; also the gambling implements in use among the women ; and, 
finally, a wheel or roulette, the workmanship of Gros Ventres. There are 
also domestic implements of the same tribe, consisting of a basket 
for carrying provisions, a wooden desk, an earthen pot, implements of 
bone for scraping skins, with horn spoons and ladles ; several medicine 
rattles, indicating the superstitions of the tribe, and a musical instru- 
ment of their invention, illustrating the innate tendency to cultivate 
the fine arts ; while children's toys, including a popgun, not unlike those 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

in use among the whites, show the unity of intellect among races the 
most widely separated. A needle case, porcupine quills, and bead orna- 
ments, together with a corn bag, illustrating female occupation, are 
from Hospital Steward J. E. Jones. From the same Territory, Dr. J, 
P. Kimball, United States Army, has contributed a large number of 
objects, such as the bow, quiver and arrows of the Assiniboines ; 
also of the Sioux, Mandans, and Arickarees; scalpknife, sheath, 
and scalp, of Yankton 5 war club, bonnet, shirt, and leggings, .drum, 
and other fighting equipments ; a fleshing knife for dressing skins, a 
pemmican mallet, wooden cups, dishes, ladles, spoons, pipe and stems, 
a peace pipe of the Blackfoot Indians, two pairs of ornamental mocca- 
sins, and an ornamented dance rattle. From Fort Wadsworth, Dr. A. 
J. Comfort, United States Army, has sent a bow, case, quiver and ar- 
rows; a collar made of bears' claws; an ornamented sheath for knife; 
stone hammer; stone spear and arrow-heads; several riding Avhips; 
the instruments used in games of ball ; a perforated horn implement 
from a mound ; two red stone pipes with carved stems ; three ornamented 
pouches of beaver and other skins ; a stone palm thimble for sewing 
with a large needle ; a worked quilt, a bunch of perfumed dried grass, 
scalp feathers, and a gourd dance rattle, which closes the list. From 
the Upper Sioux, Dr. James F. Boughter, at Fort Dakota, has obtained 
for the Institution from the Sioux a bow, with case and arrows, leggings, 
embroidered with beads ; saddle cloths handsomely ornamented, riding 
whips, war feathers, knife sheath, moccasins, ear rings, &c., the trap- 
pings of the warrior. Dr. A. B. Campbell, United States Army, contri- 
butes from the Yanktons a handsome necklace of the claws of the grizzly 
bear ; a smoking pipe ; war club armed with knives ; stone war mace ; 
stone hammer or mallet; a mortar and pestle, the former made of a stout 
piece of buffalo hide gathered at the corners ; with the usual bow and 
arrows of this tribe, and three arrows of the Kaw Indians. From the 
vicinity of Fort Eandall, Dr. G. P. Hardenburgh has obtained for us 
another head dress of buffalo skin with the hair on, and surmounted by 
the horns, with a broad pendant of skin furred and feathered to hang 
down the neck ; also a rubbing stone for dressing skins, and a horn 
spoon. 

Dr. Gardner, United States Ai^my, has forwarded fi*om the same Terri- 
tory a Chippewa bow, quiver and arrows, saddle, drum and sticks, a 
Sissiton i)ipe stick, medicine bag, bow, and a heavy scraper of bone, used 
in dressing skins. Dr. W. H. Forwood, United States Army, has contri- 
buted a bow, bow case, quiver and arrows of the Cheyennes, also arrows 
from the Sioux ; Dr. H. G. Schell, United States Army, from near Fort 
Laramie, has sent a collection consisting of the bow, bow case, quiver 
and arrows of the Ogalalla band of Sioux ; Dr. C. S. De Graw, United 
States Army, a bow and quiver of the Kiowas ; Dr. A. MuUer, United 
States Army, a hickory war bow of the Yanktons and Sissitons. From 
the same tribes a battle ax and pouch has been i^resented by F. B. 



38 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

McGnire. Brevet Brigadier General Crane Las contributed a pair of 
moccasins and a pipe of the chief Little Bear; Dr. A. MuUer sends from 
Fort Ridg-ely arrows used by the Yankton s, Sissitons, and Upper and 
Lower Sioux. Mr. W. L. Toole, from the same Territory, has furnished 
a handsome red stone pipe, stone ax, chisel, and a stone war club or 
casse-tete. 

Upper Missouri River. — From this region. Captain Little, United States 
Army", has contributed a slab of sandstone, upqp which the impression of 
t wo human feet are rudely carved. Mr. Leopold Biddle, a stone chisel ; 
and Dr. F. V. Hayden, a very perfectly preserved soapstoue vessel, frag- 
ments of pottery, arrow-heads, and other objects from the site of an an- 
cient Pawnee village. 

Nebraslca.—Fvova N'ebraska, Dr. S. M. Horton, United States Army, has 
furnished several important and interesting articles from the Ogalalla 
band of the Sioux. Among these are a buffalo robe, as prepared by the 
Cheyennes ; a saddle from the Crow Indians : a Sioux war club ; a 
pouch, knife and sheath, and a bunch of feathers, used in taking 
scalps ; specimens of arrows of the Crows, Sioux, Cheyennes, and other 
tribes; several pairs of moccasins, and a skin prepared for making 
others; a gun case of Sioux construction ; a riding whip; a lariat; pro- 
vision case of tanned buffalo hide ; tanned skins of the Rocky Mountain 
sheep and of the elk, and smaller articles consisting of several stone pipes 
from the Arapahoes, a paint bag and a comb, used by the Crow In- 
dians, the latter made of the stiff appendages on the tail of a porcupine. 

Kansas.— Evom the vicinity of Walnut Creek in this State, we have 
received through Dr. G. M. Sternberg, United States Army, the burial 
case and its appendages of a male Cheyenne child about three years of 
age. The wrappings enveloping the body, and the articles of dress, or- 
nament, or daily use which accompanied it, form the most curious and 
interesting assemblage of objects of the kind we have ever received. 
The burial case is made of long flexible withes of willow, stripped of the 
bark, and lashed together somewhat in basket fashion, built up from an 
oval base, five feet in the longer and three feet in the shorter diameter, 
the sides and top being arched and rounded, rising about three and a 
half feet from the base. An opening on one side is left for the intro- 
duction of the corpse and a large number of articles of the greatest 
value to the Indians. These articles consisted of seven highly-finished 
and valuable buffalo robes ; six blankets, white, red and blue ; a hood, 
ornamented with beads ; a cape ; several worsted scarfs ; belts, orna- 
mented with beads and metal disks ; a leather belt, covered with metal 
buttons ; apparently all the child's wardrobe, as jackets, underclotlies, 
stockings, moccasins, fur cap, leather gloves ; together with a small tin 
dish, beads, metal plates, ornaments of German silver, and others made of 
the shells of the haliotis, which is not found nearer than the Pacific coast. 
There were also several articles which can scarcely be recognized as the 
property of so young a child, such as spur straps, tobacco pouches, hide 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

lariats, paint bags, and an oblong piece of stout bull hide. It is the 
opinion of Dr. Sternberg, that this sepulchral offering of valuable eftects 
was not solely from the immediate relatives of the deceased, but that 
being the lineal descendant of a great chief, and heir to his rank in the 
tribe, many families or bands being present at the burial, contributed of 
their wealth to signalize their connection with the child's family, and the 
widespread sorrow at the loss they all had sustained. A full account 
of this interesting collection, with drawings of the articles, has been 
prepared for imblication by Dr. Otis, of the Medical Museum, in the In- 
stitution Contributions to Knowledge. 

From Fort Harker, Kansas, Dr. E. B. Foyer, United States Army, has 
presented a number of the arrows used by the Kaws, Ai^aches, Chey- 
ennes and Kiowas, which are commonly pointed wdth iron, and have the 
feathered end painted with the adopted colors of the baud or tribe, so 
that they can at once be recognized by Indian scrutiny, 

Colorado Territory and Adjoining Beg ions. — The collection of ethnology 
has also been enriched, through the Armj- Medical Museum, bj' speci- 
mens from the tribes which occupy the plain on both sides of the Ilocky 
Mountains in Colorado, Kew Mexico, and Arizona. Dr. B. A. Camp- 
bell, United States Army, from the first-named Territory, has sent a 
singular neck ornament, made of turtle shell, and two fine pouches of 
miidc skin for holding tobacco. From the Kiowas, Dr. W. H. Forwood, 
United States Army, has presented a whip, a pipe, and a medicine rattle; 
Dr. F. G. A. Bradford a tobacco pouch, an earthen water vessel, a Na- 
vajo necklace, a pair of Cheyenne moccasins, claws of the grizzly bear, 
and a j^air of Sioux moccasins. Dr. Lippincott, United States Army, 
from the Comanches has presented a whip, and Dr. J. Eeadles the hat 
of a medicine man, and a wooden spur. From Twin Springs, near Fort 
Fetterman, Dr. C. Sutherland, United States Army, has contributed 
two fine stone lance-heads, and Dr. H. S. Schell six Sioux arrows. Dr. 
P. Moftatt has presented a bow, neatly made and covered on the con- 
vex side with the skin of a rattlesnake ingeniously cemented to the 
wood. From Mr. James Stevenson, of Dr. Hay den's corps, we have a 
very fine Arapaho saddle, padded and ornamented with beads. To 
these may be added several arrows of the Apaches and Comanches, 
presented by F. B. McGuire, esq., of Washington City. 

In New Mexico., the Navajos are the most troublesome Indians that re- 
side within the present boundary of the United States, and in the nu- 
merous conflicts between them and our military forces many interesting 
objects have been captured. Dr. John Brooke, United States Army, has 
procured for us, from Fort Sumner, Navajo bows and arrows, a bridle bit, 
and a pair of moccasins; Dr. B. A. Clements, United States Army, a 
lot of arrows ; Dr. J. T. Weed a saddle blanket, shield, two bows, bow- 
case, quiver and arrows, a belt, and a curiously made shield for the 
back ; Dr. McKee, United States Army, a bow case, quiver and arrows, 
a rough stone implement for dressing skins, and an earthenware dish. 



40 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Mr. M. Kayser, of Santa Fe, lias contributed from the same tribe a 
blaiilcet made of the wool of tbe native slieep. From tlie Wacliita bat- 
tle ground, in the Indian Territory, Dr. Lippincott, United States Army, 
has obtained for us a lot of bows, cases, quivers, iron arrow-lieads, 
metal tubes for nose ornaments, and finger rings of German silver. 
These all belonged to the tri'bes engaged in the conflict, namely, the Co- 
manches, Arapahoes, Wachitas, and Kiowas. 

From Arizona, the principal contributions in former years were by 
Dr. E. Palmer, acting as medical ofiicer at the Indian agency. The ar- 
ticles presented last year, by the same explorer, were such as relate 
mostly to the domestic occupations of the Apaches — a pouch with bul- 
lets, bone for dressing skins, awls for sewing, resin for finishing bows 
and arrows, paint bag, with black and red pigments, the former 
color being derived from the inspissated juice of the mescal plant, 
and curious necklace, woven of strips of the inner bark, complete 
the collection. From Dr. John C. McFerran, United States Army, have 
been received a battle-ax; and from Dr. E. Coues several Apache ar- 
row-heads. From the western part of the Territory Mr. Manning F. Force 
has sent a (syenite or porphyry) stone axe of symmetrical shape and 
beautifully xjolished. Mr. Henry C. Force, from the Gila Eiver, has 
presented fragments of pottery and shell ornaments, and, from the Mo- 
qui Indians, a small, red, earthenware vase. Mr. H. C. Fernald has 
given a small stone axe, obtained near the same locality. 

From Wisconsin, Dr. E. P. Hoy, of Eacine, well known for his re- 
searches in aboriginal ethnology, has presented an ancient earthenware 
vase, nearly entire, having a conical or sugar-loaf bottom, with frag- 
ments of another vessel. Dr. Moses Barratt, of Waukesha, has sent 
numerous stone relics, axes, chisels, arrow-heads, and a stone disk ; also 
an arrow straightener, consisting of two flat pieces of sandstone with 
semi-cylindrical grooves, through which the shaft is drawn when the 
stones are fitted together. He has also sent fragments, apparently of 
brick, which formed part of a wall so ancient as to be attributed to 
Aztec workmanship. 

In Illinois, the Chicago Academy of Sciences, energetically engaged 
in promoting research in aboriginal remains, has had made electrotype 
copies of a fine specimen of copper knife, one of which has been ijre- 
sented, through Mr. H. Shimer, to this Institution; also a similar cast of 
a copper chisel, and a cast in plaster of a remarkable terra-cotta image. 
From Mount Carmel, Illinois, Mr. Eobert Eidgway has presented two 
fine stone axes, several spear and arrow heads; and from the same place 
Mr. Granville Turner has sent a hoe of jasper, three spear-heads of chert, 
and a lot of arrow-heads ; also from the same State, Dr. Hall has pre- 
sented a stone axe, a chisel, and a number of arrow-heads ; and J. E. 
Kendrick, of Des Moines, has contributed a series of specimens of 
pottery. 
From Indiana, Dr. E. M. White, United States Army, has presented 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

a curious earthenware pipe and a dress ornament ; Drs. McCoy and 
Maxwell, for themselves and friends, a collection of stone hatchets, 
spear-heads, and other stone relics. The most remarkable objects, how- 
ever, from this State are from near Cannelton, and consist of two stone 
mace-heads or cassc-tctcs, of hard ferrujiinous quartz, perforated throajj^h 
their Ion fjer axes, polished and finished in a perfect manner. They were 
presented by Mr. Hamilton Smith, with other stone relics. From Frank- 
lin County, Indiana, Dr. E. Haywood and his friends and neighbors have 
favored the Institution with a considerable collection of stone imple- 
ments, many of fine workmanship, among which may be enumerated 
stone pestles, axes, chisels, spears, and arrow-heads, stone ornaments, 
and pottery. 

From Ohio, Mr. W. R. Limpert has contributed a collection, found at 
Gra veport, of well-finished articles ; consisting of a variety of stone pestles, 
a mortar for grinding paint, a number of stone knives or chisels, and axes, 
a perforated stone disk, over one hundred arrow-heads, a stone awl, and 
other miscellaneous objects in stone. From Eev. Dr. Thompson, at 
Milnersville, Ohio, we have received arrow-heads collected in his vicinity. 

From Kentucky^ Mr. S. S. Lyon, whose archieological researches in 
1SG8 were of such interest in the mounds of Union County, has forwarded 
additional articles, consisting of shell disks ornamented by carvings, a 
fishing sinker of the same material, perforators of stone, and small 
masses of galena worked into a rounded bead-like form. 

From Tennessee, Mr. S. L. Wilkinson, near Clarksville, has sent five 
spear-poiuts, a large number of arrow-heads, a stqne disk, and a mortar 
for grinding paint. Dr. Curtis has also favored us with a lot of arrow- 
heads from Knox County. We have likewise to record the liberal 
donation, by Mr. J. H. Dev^ereux, of a very valuable series of stone im- 
plements and other objects, collected by himself, chiefly in Tennessee, 
though some of the articles were obtained in other Southern States, as 
well as a few from Ohio and Massachusetts. The perfect condition and 
fine finish of these articles are remarkable, and they are so numerous as 
to fill a separate case. They consist of every variety of form of axes, 
chisels, gouges, knives, spear and arrow-heads, pipes, ornaments for the 
person, of stone and of pottery articles, many of which are entirely 
unique. 

From ArJcansas, Mrs. Governor Throckmorton, of Little Eock, has 
l^resented a i^estle, grinding stone, and two paint mortars; and from the 
same State, Mr. J. M. Stanley has sent a quantity of quills of the porcu- 
pine, colored for use by the Indians in their embroidery. 

In Mississipin, Mr. T. J. E. Keenan, of Brookhaven, has shown zeal 
in examining the natural and ethnological curiosities of his vicinity, and 
has presented to us a large number of handsome arrow-heads of brown 
jasijer, a curious cylinder of the same mineral, a stone disk, and a pair 
of ear pendants made of silver coins by an Indian boy. 

Tn Louisiana, opposite Vicksburg, Dr. E. Swift, United States Army, 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

has examined tlie contents of several mounds and Indian graves, from 
which he obtained for us many interesting articles, the principal of which 
are earthenware vases in good i)reservation and of curious forms, ap- 
proaching that of the vessels common among the tribes of Chili and Peru, 
evidently for holding water, most of them having very narrow openings, 
and Ijeing spherical in shape ; also, stone hammers, chisels, pestles, 
carved pipes of sandstone, a disk of quartz, bowls and cups of earthen- 
ware, &c. 

In Texas, Dr. D. 11. McEldeny, stationed at Fort GrifQn, has assid- 
uously collected from the tribes near his post many objects of interest; 
among which we may enumerate three Comanche war shields painted 
and ornamented, bows, bow case, arrows, quiver, scalp knife, and sheath, 
war drum, tomahawk, and riding whip, all of which belong to a warrior's 
equipment. The other articles are implements for dressing skins ; 
tinder bag; dance ornaments ; two head dresses, one made of Comanche 
hair and the other of a bear's ear ; a girdle and pouch made of a Coman- 
che's skin ; a square girdle and arm and head ornaments, some of silver 
plates, with toy bows and arrows, and two rag dolls decorated with 
Comanche hair. Dr. J. Middleton, of Camp Verde, has presented a 
saddle obtained from the Kickapoos, and Mr. George Kean, some bony 
plates of the Lcpidosteus, or great western gar, having been used by tlie 
southern and western Indians as arrow-heads; a fact in accordance with 
a statement of William Bartram in his travels in Florida during the last 
century. 

In Florida, explorations have recently been made in the shell heaps 
near Tampa Bay by Dr. William Stimpson and Mr. E. C. Stearns. From 
the former we have received a curious shell implement formed of the 
columella of the great Fasciolaria gigantea, the use of which is unknown. 
From Mr. Stearns, a large soapstone vessel, a stone sinker, a spear-head 
and fragments of pottery. Mr. H. Clark, of the same place, has pre- 
sented several hammers, a fishing sinker, a number of arrow-heads, and 
an earthenware vase. 

Froin Alabama, we have received specimens of arrow-heads, princi- 
pally of jasper or agate, and of good finish, j^resented by Mr. Isaac Slee, 
of Baldwin County, and specimens of the same kind from Mr. Henry C. 
Force, collected in Northern Alabama, and also specimens of pottery and 
arrow-heads presented by Dr. Reynolds, United States Army. 

From Georgia, at St. Simon's Island, a favorite station of the South- 
ern tribes. Dr. C. H. Taylor, United States Army, has forwarded a num- 
ber of stone axes and arrow-heads, and also pottery from Brunswick 
County. 

F^'om Virginia, Fayette County, Mr. A. G. Grinnan has presented 
a collection of stone axes, hammers, chisels, and a finely formed 
fishing sinker made of hematite, of which we have several specimens 
from localities widely separated, the weight of the material being its 
great recommendation for this service. Mr. E. C. Meade, of Albemarle 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

County, lias giveu an Indian liatcliet and a lot of arrow-heads. Major 
H. 0. Williams has presented arrow-heads from Fairfax County ; Mr. 
Robert Burford, arrow-heads from Isle of Wight County ; and from Mr. 
C. 11. Moore we have received a fine lance-head, a pipe, pipe-stem, and 
arrow-heads, found ou the east shore of Virginia. 

. From Iforth Carolina, Eev. M. A. Curtis, of Edgecombe County, 
has presented two stone axes, a collection of arrow-heads, and specimens 
of pottery. 

District of Columbia.— From Mrs. M. H. Schoolcraft, of the District 
of Columbia, to whose liberality we were previously indebted for large 
collections, we have received additional specimeus of stone hammers, a 
stone disk, and other implements. From the Agricultural Department 
we have received a very perfectly finished war mace with handle, its 
locality being unknown. Contributions of specimens from the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, were made this year by Joseph Saxton, esq., of 
the United States Coast Survey. They include very numerous examples 
of all the usual stone implements, such as axes, chisels, hatchets, gouges, 
spear-heads of very great size, tomahawks, several perforated stone im- 
plements, disks, a vessel carved out of soapstone, and a great num- 
ber of arrow-heads collected on both sides of the Potomac River, and 
of every variety of material accessible to the Indians, mostly of quartz 
and quartzite, slate, jasper, &c., with a large quantity of pottery frag- 
ments. 

From Maryland, Mr. F. B. McGuire, of Howard County, has pre- 
ented numerous arrow-heads ; a lot of the same collected at West 
River has been given by Mr. W. Q. Force. Dr. C. Sutherland, United 
States Army, has presented a stone battle ax and arrow-heads from 
near Annapolis, and Mr. John Cameron, of Prince George's County, has 
given us a collection of over a hundred arrow-heads, neatly arranged 
for exhibition. From Charles County, we havQ received from Mr. 
O. X. Bryan, an industrious collector, many objects of this class, such as 
stone knives, chisels, spear-points, pestles, hatchets, awls, and a variety 
of Indian pottery. From the same vicinity, Mr. James Slagle has i)re- 
sented arrow-heads and a quantity of fragments of pottery. 

Pennsylvania. — Mr. J. H. Mcllvaine, an ardent inquirer into the man- 
ners and customs of the aborigines, has presented a fine stone ax and 
a stone tomahawk from Northumberland County, a flanged stone ring 
or wheel ; a stone wrought into the form of a bird ; a slate chopping- 
knife and a breastplate of shells and beads, with specimens of pottery. 
From B. Smith, Upper Darby, we acknowledge the receipt of a stone 
ax and some arrow-heads ; from R. Christ, at . Nazareth, Pennsylvania, 
two stone chisels and an ax ; from Harry Hoover, a flint knife and 
arrow-heads, collected in Clearfield County ', and from Dr. E. Michener 
a soapstone dish, a hoe, a number of axes, chisels, pestles, a lot of ar- 
row-heads, a tomahawk, and a polished ornament for the neck. 

From Neic Jersey, at Shrewsbury, Mr. Samuel Wilson has sent us a 



44 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

number of stone axes, chisels, and arrow-heads, a stone tomahawk, paint 
mortar, and pipe. From Tuckertou, Mrs. Lewis Blackman has presented 
a stone hoe, a sinker, numerous arrow-heads, and other stone imple- 
ments. To Isaac Lea, LL. D., of Philadelphia, we are indebted for a 
very fine stone ax fouud in New Jersey. 

From New York, Messrs. S. P. Forman and R. Howell,. near Nich- 
ols, have (jontributed ethnological articles, consisting of stone flesh- 
ing chisels, arrow-heads, and flint knives; and also, from Mr. Merritt,' 
near Farmingdale, we liave a number of arrow-heads. From Western 
New York, Dr. F. B. Hough, a diligent cooperator and accurate observer, 
who long since began to make contributions to the Institution, has for- 
wardedfromhisexteusive collections a number of interesting objects. We 
may mention a bowl, or deep dish, carved in soaiistone ; a stone mortar, 
a number of pipe-bowls, pipes, &c., with chisels, spear-heads, gouges, 
and an Indian cradle profusely ornamented. 

From New England, Mr. S. A. Ladd, from the vicinity of Mere- 
dith Village, New Hampshire, has contributed a considerable variety ol 
stone implements, including two of those remarkable chisels, or gouges, 
having a curved cutting edge ; also straight chisels, spear-heads, pestles, 
fishing sinkers, ijerforated stone ornaments, and arrow-heads. From 
Vermont, sent by Messrs. J. M. Currier, W. G. Norris, and E. Wheeler, 
we Lave received a spear-head of native copper, of good workmanship, 
but much corroded. The metal of this may have been obtained in barter 
from the Indians of Lake Suj^erior, or from others living in Nova Scotia, 
where the native metal exists. It was accompanied by a stone hoe, a 
flat, triangular implement with a cutting edge, of which examples are some- 
what rare, stone pestles, and lance-heads. Mr. Fearing Burr has presented 
a cast in plaster of the most perfectly shaped pestle yet obtained, which, 
at the end grasped by tbe hand, is worked to a sharp edge or comb, 
pointed at one side. It was exhumed from an ancient Indian cemetery 
near Hingham. Very large collections of stone implements have been 
received from Dr. W. Wood, of East Windsor Hill, Connecticut, who 
has devoted much time and exhibited great zeal in this branch oi 
research as well as in others connected with natural history. A liberal 
donation is recorded from him of axes, hammers, chisels, spear-heads, 
knives, gouges, pestles, perforated stones and hoes, and from these and 
other parcels received from him, it may be justly inferred that his vicinity 
was densely populated in former times by the savages who wrought 
these articles. 

Canada, New Brunswich, &c. — Much attention has been excited in the 
Dominion of Canada upon the subject of aboriginal remains, chiefly 
through the exertions of Principal Dawson, of McGill University, Mon- 
treal, from whom a valuable series of Indian pottery, pipes of stone and 
earthenware, perforated stone implements, &c., has been received. 
Professor L. W. Bailey, of New Brunswick, also has presented several 
stone axes, strings of wampum, spear-ijoiuts, and arrow-heads, which 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

were collected in his vicinity. From a long-esteemed correspondent of 
the Institution, Mr. "W. E. Guest, formerly of Ogdensburg, New York, 
now of Canada, have been received a number of curiously- worked bone 
implements, chiefly awls or perforators, employed anciently in sewing 
leather garments and moccasins. An unknown donor has sent us a line 
sample of the h^avy stone mauls used by the mound builders or their 
predecessors, in mining the native metallic copper from the Lake Supe- 
rior region, where the vast deposits of this metal were resorted to for the 
materials out of which to make spears, tomahawks, tish-hooks, sinkers, 
and i^ersonal ornaments. 

Mexico. — From other districts not included within the United States, the 
Institution has received important contributions in ethnology. Dr, Sar- 
torius, from near Mirador, in Mexico, has sent specimens of the stone im- 
plements and ornaments formerly in use among the aboriginal races of 
that country. Some of these, namely, the perforated ornaments, beads, 
knives, and chisels, are prepared from a variety of jade — a hard green 
mineral, held sacred by the natives — and others, such as knives, flakes and 
arrow-points, are of obsidian, a material from which long-bladed portions 
can be flaked off by a slight pressure on the sides of the core. The tra- 
ditional knife for the rite of circumcision among the Jews was of stone, 
and the suggestion has been made by Dr. Foreman that the custom 
originated with a people living in Asia Minor or Arabia during the stone 
age. This collection also contains earthenware images, saucers, incen- 
sories, bowls, cups, candlesticks with and without handles, together with 
domestic utensils made of dried gourds, which are sometimes converted 
into children's rattles. All these are of modern workmanship and now 
in use among the people of the country. From Dr. Sumichrast, also of 
Mexico, we have received a perforated stone tube — probably part of a 
pipe. 

Porto Rico, West Indies. — From Porto Rico, George Latimer, esq., 
who has long been a very liberal contributor to the collections of the 
Institution, has sent three additional specimens of remarkable elliptical 
stone rings, resembling an ordinary horse collar, made from a very hard 
syenite rock, and carefully sculptured and polished. It is suggested that 
they were placed on the neck of the human sacrificial victims during 
religious ceremonies, probably for eficcting strangulation before the fatal 
stroke of the obsidian knife. One of them is of a different pattern, being 
shaped like a horse-shoe, or the letter U, and of more massive propor- 
tions. Included in this interesting collection are also several ancient 
stone chisels similar to those found in the United States, and a number 
of terracotta images of grotesque form. 

From Barhadoes, West Indies, through the kindness of Granville 
Chester, esq., we have obtained several ornaments of carved shells and 
a hatchet of the same material. Articles made of shell are now exciting 
much interest, as this substance seems to have been widely employed at 
as early a period as that of the age of the mound-builders. 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

British Guiana. — P. Figyelmesy, esq., United States codsitI, has pre- 
sented a valuable series of articles in use among the tribes of Indians 
now living in the interior of that country, including sets of bows and 
arrows, war clubs, a blow-gun, with two cases of arrows poisoned with 
the wourali; an emblem of office, consisting of a club and a paddle com- 
bined ; a stone chisel, and also head dresses, made of brilliant- 
colored feathers, bracelets of the green and gold wing cases of a large 
species of beetle, {Buprestis^) beaded aprons worn by females, a necklace 
of the teeth of the peccary, and a flute constructed of the long bones of 
a wading bird. 

From Central America, Dr. Earl Flint, while examining the Island of 
Ornatepe, in Lake Nicaragua, obtained for the Institution, from ancient 
tombs, an idol and three earthenware vases of much interest. From 
Chiriqui, an unknown donor has contributed an earthenware vase. 

France. — The prehistoric caverns and rock shelters of France, under 
the persevering investigation of Professor E. Lartet, have yielded 
such a harvest of precious relics, and of ingenious and interesting de- 
ductions, as to have conferred on him a world-wide renown. Out of 
his abundant materials he has with much liberality presented to the 
Institution several cases filled with objects, of which it will suffice to 
enumerate a few prominent specimens. Of the animals contempo- 
raneous with man in those obscure times, there are bones of the horse, 
some of them gnawed by wolves ; of the aurochs, rhinoceros, wild goat, 
chamois, hyena, reindeer, including a very perfect jaw and teeth of the 
cave-bear. Associated with these are two small bones of the human 
skeleton, ap]iarently belonging to the phalanges of the hand. Among 
the implements of war, of domestic use, and articles of ornament, are 
casts of bone implements, chiefly for making perforations, stone knives, 
sculptured horn of reindeer, and bone aigrettes, probably for fastening 
skin or fur dresses; also a mortar for grinding grain or fruits, and casts 
of arrow-heads, in forms very similar to those of American specimens ; 
and many flakes of flint struck from the core while making knives, 
arrow-points, or other articles. The European flint is better adapted 
to this manufacture than any stone found in America, except obsidian. 
These flint chips were gathered from fourteen difierent localities in 
France, indicating the prevalence of the art of forming cutting imple- 
ments of stone and the density of the population. Professor Lartet 
has also contributed several large masses of the breccia which occupies 
the floor of the caves, consisting of bones and teeth of animals, flint 
flakes, pebbles, and other objects cemented together into a solid pave- 
ment. The composition of these masses apparently indicates the great 
antiquity of man, since they present the stone implements of his con- 
struction embedded in the same materials with the bones of the rhinoc- 
eros and other extinct animals. The most remarkable portion of this 
collection may, however, be said to consist of the illustrations of the 
art of sculpture as it existed among the prehistoric races. The material 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

employed was tlie broad portion of the horns of the reindeer or the 
ivory tusks of the elephant. These carvings exhibit a remarkable ap- 
preciation of form and composition, undoubtedly derived from constant 
observation of the wild animals depicted. They chiefly represent the 
more remarkable quadrupeds, such as the elephant, reindeer, bear, 
aurochs, &c. These are all exhibited in motion or in striking attitudes, 
such as leaping, fighting, or flying from pursuit. 

Polynesia. — It is proper here to record an addition to the collections 
from Commodore John H. Aulick, United States Navy, consisting of a 
large cape or mantle entirely covered with brilliant plumage of scarlet, 
gold, and black feathers, derived from birds wlii(;h are extremely rare 
in that country. It was made for the personal decoration of King 
Kameliaineha on state occasions, and presented by his Majesty to the 
commodore when he ofiicially visited the Sandwich Islands, some years 
ago. From Commodore Magruder, United States i^avy, we have re- 
ceived several warlike imi^lemeuts of the Feejee Islands. 

Meteorology. — The system inaugurated at the beginning of the In- 
stitution has been carried on as usual during the past year. The whole 
number of observers reporting to the Institution during this period has 
been -479, and to the Medical Department of the United States Army, 
120, making in all 599. Among these, 1G7 report indications of the 
barometer and the other instruments, and the remainder those of the 
thermometer, rain-gauge, and wind- vane. Owing to the necessarily un- 
settled condition of the army since the war, many changes have taken 
place in the posts at which observations are made, and therefore the 
permanent, or, rather, normal condition of the whole system has not yet 
been established. I say " normal" because, since the observations made 
for the Institution are from voluntary observers, and some changes must 
take place in the disposition of troops, therefore more or less variation 
in the number and locality of points of observation must always occur, 
and a condition of absolute iiermanency is not to be expected. Nearly 
all the material that has been collected by the Institution during the 
last twenty years is in the hands of computers, with the exception of 
that relative to the rain-fall, which has been discussed and of which the 
results are now passing through the press. The material relative to tem- 
perature has been put in charge of Mr. Charles A. Schott, and will be 
completed during the present year, provided the usual number of com- 
puters are retained. The discussion of the material relative to the 
winds of the northern hemisphere, collected by the Institution from 
various sources, is in charge of Professor Coffin, of Lafayette College, 
who, with a number of assistants, will press .on the work of its reduc- 
tion and discussion as rapidly as the means appropriated for the purpose 
will allow. The previous discussion of the winds of the same region by 
Professor Coflin, published in the transactions of the Institution, has 
been adopted as a part of the basis of the pilot charts of the British 
Hydrographic Office, which fact may serve as an indication of the value 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

attached to the publicatious of our Institution and to the labors of one 
of its collaborators. Few persons not having experience in the matter 
could imagine the amount of labor required in the reduction and dis- 
cussion of physical observations. In the case of the observations re- 
ported to the Smithsonian Institution nearly three millions of figures 
have to be gone over. But this is not all. Various hypotheses have to 
be provisionally assumed, and the deductions from them tested by com- 
I)arison with the actual results of observations, while many special re- 
sults have to be deduced in accordance with previously established for- 
mulas. The result of the discussion of the rain-fall, besides being given 
in tables, is illustrated by curves and rain-charts. The printing of the 
tables is necessarily a slow oi^eration, requiring special care in the cor- 
rection of the proof. The printing of the charts has been facilitated by 
exhibiting the relative fall of rain in each part of the country by dif- 
ferent depths of shading in the original engraving, the distinction being 
made more obvious by a second printing in a single color. The rain- 
charts are three in number ; one exhibits the relative fall of rain for the 
whole year; another for the three months of summer; and a third dur- 
ing the months of winter. For agricultural purposes the rain-fall in the 
summer is most important, but data are given in the tables to ascertain 
it for every month of the year. 

The distribution of rain is very materially affected by the prevailing 
direction of the wind, and this again is modified by the declination of 
the sun, a fact which must be evident when we consider that the motive 
power of the great currents of the aerial ocean is the greater heat of 
the equatorial regions derived from the perpendicular rays of the sun, 
which, expanding the air, causes it to ascend and flow over in each 
direction toward the poles. The medial line along which this exi^ansion 
takes place must move north and south with the sun in his varying de- 
clination. If the earth were covered entirely with water, and were at 
rest, the currents of the air would be comparatively simple ; but, since 
the earth is in a rapid rotatory motion eastward, the currents which flow 
at the surface toward the medial line move on one side from the north- 
east and on the other from the southeast, thus forming what are called 
the "trade-winds," while the same currents continued upward and 
northward on one side, and upward and southward on the other, curv- 
ing eastward, form the great stream of western return-trades which in 
the northern hemisphere, in summer, continually flow over the United 
States, at a high elevation, and which waft the higher clouds eastward, 
giving a similar direction to the principal storms of every season. In 
midsummer, when the medial line we have referred to is carried north- 
ward by the northern declination of the sun, the upper current reaches 
the earth beyond the fiftieth parallel of latitude, and precipitates the 
vapor which it brings from the Pacific Ocean in the form of rain on the 
western coast of America, to the depth, at Sitka, of ninety inches. As 
the sun declines to the south the rain belt gradually descends along the 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

coast until it reaches, in diuiinislied quantity, the soutliern portion of 
California. As the sun ascends again toward the north the rain also 
gradually returns northward, until it leaves almost entirely, during the 
summer, that portion of the western coast south of 50° north latitude. 

The primary currents of air we have mentioned are modified by the 
varying- relative temi)erature of the ocean and the continents. The 
capacity of water for heat being about six times that of land, the latter 
becomes relatively much Avarmer h\ summer and colder in wiuter than 
the former; and since the air at the surface of the earth tends to flow 
from the colder to the warmer region, there must be a tendency of the 
wind from the ocean toward the land in summer, and the contrary in 
winter; though this may not be powerful enough to reverse the general 
currents, it is yet sufficiently so to produce in them the modifications of a 
very perceptible character.- In summer, the greater heat of the surface 
of the middle portion of North America keeps the return trade-current 
at a high elevation, and produces a surface current from the Gulf of 
Mexico, which, on account of the motion of the earth, assumes a direc- 
tion from southwest to northeast, bearing with it the moisture which is 
precipitated in rain, principally throughout the region east of the Mis- 
sissippi Eiver. Were the earth at rest the same current would How 
over the whole of the Mississippi Valley to the base of the Eocky JVIoun- 
tains, and the aridity of the western portion of this region would- no longer 
exist. 

In winter, when the upper current, after sweeping across the Pacific 
Ocean, ascends along the western slopes of the mountains, it precipi- 
tates its moisture on their crest in the form of snow, which, melting in 
summer, gives rise to numerous streams which, although not sufficient to 
irrigate all the region between the Eocky Mountains and the fertile 
country \djoining the Mississippi on the west, may yet, by well-directed 
enterprise, serve very much to circumscribe the arid regions in the 
Mississippi Valley, as well as to mitigate the droughts of the great in- 
terior basins of the mountain system. 

In summer, the sun approaching, in its northern declination, a posi- 
tion nearly vertical to the extremity of the Peninsula of Florida, heats 
the land and produces inflowing and upward currents of air, charged 
with moisture, which, i^erhaps more frequently in the after-part of the 
day, falls in copious showers. In winter, on the contrary, the sun being 
far south of the latitude of Florida, the surface currents are almost 
neutralized, or tend to flow from the land, and, hence, the rain-fall at 
this season is much less. 

In the region east of the Mississippi, including the whole Appalachian 
system, the direction of the surface wind is the same as that of the trend 
of the mountains, and hence both sides and crests of the latter and in- 
tervening valleys are covered with vegetation. 

The region along the eastern coast of the United States is also sup- 
plied with vapor from the Atlantic Ocean, which is borne inland in all 
cases where an approaching storm gives rise to a wind from an easterly 
4s 



50 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

direction. The preceding sketcli gives a general explanation of tlie 
marked contrast between the rain-fall of the eastern and western halves 
of the United States. 

Most of the records of meteorological i^henomena which were made 
previous to a comparatively late date had for their object the determin- 
ation of, what may be called, the statical condition of the weather in dif- 
ferent places, or, in other words, the determination of the average atmo- 
spheric pressure, temperature, direction of the wind, and the fall of rain. 
A knowledge of these elements is of great importance in ascertaining the 
relative climates of different countries, particularly in regard to sanitary 
and agricultural considerations. In later years, however, systems of 
meteorology have been established having more especially for their ob- 
ject the record of the simultaneous conditions of the atmosphere in differ- 
ent portions of the earth, and the origin and progress of storms ; that is, 
to discover', if possible, the dynamic principles which regulate the phe- 
nomena of the weather. Systems of this kind have been established in 
almost every part of Europe and in several parts of Asia, even in Turkey, 
in the East Indies, and in Xorth America." These systems are not only 
intended to indicate the laws according to which the atmospheric dis- 
turbances are produced, but, also, to predict, by the aid of the telegraph, 
the w^eather that may be expected within a given time. 

The Smithsonian Institution was the first to make use of the tele- 
graph for this purpose. The state of the barometer and thermometer 
and the direction of the wind were received from the various telegraphic 
stations at 8 o'clock each morning and recorded on a large map iastened 
to a board, into which small iron pins were driven to support circular 
cards of different colors, which indicated the character of the sky and 
of the weather — whether cloudy or clear, raining or snowing. On each 
card was drawn an arrow, the direction of which could be varied by 
suspending the card from one of eight holes with which it was pierced. 
A glance at this map showed at once the condition of the sky and direc- 
tion of the wind over the whole country, and knowing from previous 
observation the direction of the movement of storms, the weather could, 
in most cases, be predicted, frequently more than a day in advance. 
In Europe the i^rediction of the weather is founded on the probable 
direction of the wind at a given place as deduced from telegrams 
giving the maximum and minimum pressures of the air as indicated 
by the barometer. It has been found from observation that the 
wind which may be expected will blow nearly at right angles to a line 
johung the maximum and minimum pressure of the air, and that the 
face being turned toward the minimum point, the wind will come from 
the left-hand side. This rule, however, may be theoretically deduced 
from the movement of the air in the form of a cyclone, but will scarcely 
hold true in case of the storms observed in the eastern portions of the 
United States. The storms tliat visit the west of Europe are those 
which come directly from the ocean, where the cyclonal character of the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

■wind fiiuls little disturbance from inequality of surface, wbile tlie storms 
on the opposite American coast have their origin lar inland, and arc sub- 
ject to greatchangesof form by mountains or other obstructions in their 
passage to the Atlantic Ocean. The system adopted by the Institution 
for predicting changes in the weather was intermitted by the war, and 
since the restoration of peace the telegraph companies could not be in- 
duced to furnish the transmission of the necessary telegrams free of 
charge ; and as this project was intended as a practical api^lication df 
science and would require a much larger ai)propriation for its support 
than could be afforded by the Smithson fund, the proposition to renew 
,the system has been allowed to rest. At the i^resent session of Congress, 
however, a resolution was offered by Mr. Paine, of Wisconsin, which 
was adopted, authorizing an appropriation of $25,000 for a system of 
weather signals, especially along the northern lakes. The general direc- 
tion of this sj'stem has been placed in charge of the Chief of the Signal 
Corps of the Army, General Myer. The plans which have been adopted 
for the carrying out of the proposed object have not been communicated 
to the Institution. We shall, however, be ready to give any advice or 
assistance in conducting the enterprise which maj' be required, and also 
to avail ourselves of any facilities which it may afford us in the study 
of the climatology of the northern hemisphere. 
Eespectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY. 

January, 1870. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Table sliowing the entries in the record hooks of the Smithsonian Museum 

in 1808 and 18G9. 



Class. 


1868. 


1869. 




8,150 
9,300 

54, 000 
7,200 
5, 625 

14, 100 
1,287 

18, 500 
2, 725 
110 
7, 200 
6, 625 
7, 400 
175 


9, 708 




9,516 


J3il-(]c5 


58, 976 




7, 517 




7,885 




15, 500 




1,287 




21,770 




2, 725 




100 




7, 233 




6, 977 




9, 233 


piont<a .. -- 


175 








Totil 


142, 397 


158, 652 







The total uumber of entries diirmi]f the year thus amoimts to 10,255; 
of which nearly 5,000 are birds and 1,800 ethnological objects; 1,400 



eggs, &c. 



Approximate table of distributions of di(plicate specimens to the end of 

18G9. 



Class. 


Distribution to the 
end of 1868. 


Distribution in 186C. 


Total. 




Si)ecies. 


Specim'ns. 


Species. 


Specim'ns. 


Species. 


Specim'ns. 


Skulls and skeletons. 
Mammals 


129 

852 

10, 008 

1,699 

2, 424 

4, 151 

72, 970 

551 

1,013 

1,838 

13, 658 
3,401 
2,118 
1,107 
1, 420 
15 


163 

1,667 

15, 440 

2. 822 

5^200 

10, 627 

172, 472 

727 

2,516 

5, 152 

19,218 
9,002 
6,654 
1,107 

2,587 
555 


25 

33 

2,943 

2 

10 

230 

5, 421 


430 
39 


154 

885 


593 
1,706 


Birds 


3, 556 12, 951 


18, 996 


Reptiles 


8 

10 

1,084 

5,455 


1,701 
2, 434 
4, 381 
78, 39] 
551 
1,023 
1,838 

13, 658 
3, 958 
2,880 
1,107 
1, 532 
28 


2, 830 


Fishes .- 


5,210 


Egcjs of birds 

Shells 


11,711 
177, 92T 




727 


Crustaceans 


10 


10 


2, 526 
5, 152 


Plants and packages 






19,213 


Fossils 


557 
762 


982 
1,120 

47 
259 

11 


9, 984 


Minerals and rocks.. 


7, 774 
1, 154 


Insects 


112 
11 


2,846 


Diatomaceous earth. 


566 


Total 


117, 354 


255, 909 


10, 116 


13, Oil 


127, 470 


268, 920 







ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 53 

Additions to the collections of the Smithsonian Institution hi 1869. 

^ Aldcn, Dr. C. E., United States Army. — One box fossil bones and teetli, 
Wyoming" Territoiy. 

' AUard, C. T. — Collection of minerals, Illinois. 

'Athens, Greece; 2Iuseum of Natural History. — Fossil bones from Mount 
Pikerini. 

iAnlicl; Commodore John R., United States Navy. — Feather cape of 
King Karaehamalin, from Sandwich Islands. 
Arey, Adam. — Indian spear head, Indiana. 
■ Baird, Professor S. F. — Sknll of mephitis, Massachusetts 5 portions of 
skeleton of whale, Grand Mauan, Xew Brunswick ; bones, stone imple- 
ments, &c., from caves near Carlisle, Pennsylvania; 40 skulls of porpoise, 
Bay of Fundy ; bones and relics from shell mounds, Maine. 

Barnes, Major General J. K., Surgeon General United States Army. — 
See ^Yashinf|ton, Medical Department United States Army. 
^Barratt, Dr. Moses. — Indian relics and fresh-water shells, Wisconsin. 
Bartholf, Dr. John A., United States Army. — Ardea herodias, Missis- 
sippi. 

^ Beaks, A. C, hospital steward United States Army. — Box bird skins, 
North Carolina. 
Behrens, James. — One box insects, California. 
'■Biddle, Leopold. — Carboniferous fossil, stone chisel, «S:c., Iowa. 
!■ Bisvhojff^, Fcrd. — Eight boxes zoological collections, from Alaska. 
. Blacl-hurn, Georye and Charles. — One box birds' eggs, Iowa. 
iBlaelcman, Mrs. Leah. — One box Indian stone relics, &c., New Jersey. 
'Blalccslee, C. T. — One hornet nest, Ohio. 

•> Boardman, G. A. — Indian relics from shell heaps of Maine; and 100 
skins of birds from Florida. 

Bolles, Rev. E. C. — Box of shells, {Lymnca ampla,) Maine. 
1 J^oneard, A. — Coleoptera and reptiles from Mexico. 

Breslan, K.; Ohcr-Bery-Amt. — Collection of minerals and fossils of 
Germany. 

^ Brevoort, J. Carson. — South American deer in flesh. 
i' Bryan, 0. N. — Miscellaneous Indian relics, Maryland. 
-Burr, Fearing. — Cast of Indian stone pestle, Massachusetts. 

• Byrne, Dr. C. C, United States Army. — Indian stone scrapers, Ar- 
kansas. 

• Cambridge ; Herbarium of Harvard College. — One box seeds of acacia, 
&c., Australia. 

^ Cameron, John. — One card Indian arrow-heads, Maryland. 
. Canfield, Dr. C. A. — One box marine animals, and two boxes nests 
and eggs, California. 

■- CapeJ, J. H. — Bones of elk from Canada. 

^ Capron, General II., Commissioner ef Agricidture. — See Washington,!)^- 
partment of Agriculture. 

Carter, Mr. — One box fossils and minerals from near Fort Bridger. 

■ Charbonnier^Dr. A. V., United States Army. — Minerals and fossils from 
Mammoth Cave, Kentucky. 

Chester, Rev. G. T. — Three shell implements, JBarbadoes. 

Chicago; Academy of Sciences. — Copy in terra cotta of an image from a 
mound, 31issouri ; electrotype cast of copper-knife from mound in Illi- 
nois ; cast of ancient vase. 
. Christ, Richard. — Egg of Sawwhet owl, Pennsylvania. 

Clarl; H. — Indian pottery, stone and shell implements, skulls, &c., 
Florida. 



54 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

"' Colletf, John. — Three Indian arrows, trilobites, fossil ferns, &c., Indi- 
ana. 

. V vCoues, Dr. E. — Two boxes bird skins and ost§ological collections, Korth 
Carolina. 

V Cwclcer, Allen. — Fossils and zoological specimens, Kansas. 

V Currier, Br. J. M. — Indian stone relics, Vermont. 

i'^ Curtis, Bev. M. A. — Teeth of cyprinoid fish, Indian relics, and Indian 
beads from a grave, North Carolina. 

Dull, W. H. — Paper currency from Pekin, China; and 22 boxes zoolo- 
gical and ethnological collections from Alaska. 
I Davis, J. H. — Skin of panther. 
J Davis, H. — Fossil coralline, (?) Minnesota. 
-'Davis, Dr. Samuel. — Indian stone relics, Indiana. 
^DeCreri/, P. A. — Specimen of magnetic rock, Martinique. 
De la Verney, Mr. — Supposed meteorite, New York. 
De Oca, R. Mantes. — Mounted peccary, {Dicofyle torquatas,) Mexico. 
De Selding, Charles. — Skull of dog, Tennessee ; bit and reins of bridle 
from Lima, South America ; black slate carved pipe. Northwest Pacific ; 
fishing line, hook, and net, Otaheite. 

; Deems, J. W. — One box copper and silver ores, &c., Mexico and Cali- 
fornia. 

^ Denny, Henry. — Set of casts of the great seals of England; skull of 
dog and portion of pelvis of rhinoceros from Dowkerbottom Cave, Eng- 
land ; Euplectella speciosa, Philippine Islands ; fossil criuoid, ( Woodocri- 
nus,) from York, England. 

■■'Department of Agriculture, General II. Capron. — Mounted rabbit, nest 
of oriole, stoue' war-club, &c., Pennsylvania. 
Destruge, Dr. A. — Two boxes birds, Ecuador. 
DiUe, Mr. — Teeth of fossil horse, Illinois. 

Dodd, P. 8. — Eggs of tern, merganser and ring plover, Nova Scotia. 
Edwards, Amory. — Skins of six species of jay, California. 
Edwards, Henry. — One box insects, and living Helix arrosa, California. 
Endres, J. B. — Two boxes of humming birds, Costa Eica. 
Fauntleroy, Thomas W.,2)er O.iV. Bryan. — Indian mortar, axe, &c., Vir- 
ginia. 
"Fernald, Charles. — Neuropterous insects, California. 
;Figyelmesey,P., United States Consul. — Three boxes birds, insects, and 
curiosities,. British Guiana. 

Flint, Dr. Earl. — Ancient pottery and seeds of the turkey flower, 
Nicaragua. 

'■ Force', Henry C. — Shell ornaments from Casa Blauca, near Gila Eiver, 
wdth fragments of pottery, stone axe, «&;c. 
Foreman, Stephen. — Indian relics, New York. 
> Gardner, E. F. — Indian relics from shell heaps, Maine. 
Gardner, Dr. ^y. H, United Stcetes Army. — Indian implements and 
relics, Dakota. 

Gcisdorf, Dr.— Two skulls of Indians and one beaver skull, Montana 
Territory. 

Ghiselin, Dr. J. T., United States Arw?^.— Indian implements, «&c., Ore- 
gon. 

V Giddings, Edward.— SknWa of Nisqually Indian and of mammals ; ser- 
pula, and casts of shells, Washington Territory. 

- Gilliss, John B. — Skull and other bones of human skeleton, Utah. 

\yGoss, B. F. — One box birds' eggs, Wisconsin. 

! Gray, Dr. C. C, United States Army. — Skeleton of Indian child, Da- 
kota. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 55 

■ "-^ Grayson, Colonel A. .J.-r-Four boxes birds, insects, &c., "Mexico. 
Griffith, Amos L. — Nest of humming bird, Tennessee. 
Grinnan, A. G. — Indian stone implements, Virginia. 
^^Gruher, Ferdinand. — Six skins Harporhyclieus redivivus, California j 
and one box birds, Australia and California. 
Mayan, J. ^Y. — Indian stone relics, Kentucky. 
Hall, Dr. E. — Indian stone relics, Illinois. 

^Hancoclx, E. M. — Birds' eggs, Iowa. 

'IIar})er, W. J. W. — One box shells, California. 
1, Hayden, Dr. F. V. — Ancient soapstone bowl, Wyoming Territory j 
and 22 boxes geological and other collections, Colorado. 

^Raymond, Leigh. — Indian stone implements, Indiana. 

.Haymond, Dr. Eiifus. — One box Indian stone relics, Indiana. 

\yHeverin, John T. — Menopoma alleghaniensis, Missouri. 

^Holmes, Professor F. S. — Phosphate of lime from Ashley Eiver, South 
Carolina. 

■Howe, Bev. S. S. — Indian pipe and other relics, Dakota and Iowa. 

"Jloxie, Walter. — One box birds and birds' eggs. South Carolina. 

'Houyh, Dr. F. B. — Bones of Sus from depth of IS feet in Loess, and one 
box Indian relics, New York and Canada. 

Hoy, Dr. F. B. — Skull of a Pottawatomie chief and Indian vase from 
mound ; also birds' nests and eggs, Wisconsin. 

\ Hul)hard, Dr. E. ^Y. — Helices from various localities. 
V Hudson, W. H. — Two boxes birds, Buenos Ayres. 

'■Hurt tb Bros. — Box iron ore, clay, &c., Virginia. 
Jeivett, Colonel E. — Corallines in chalcedony, Florida. 

'■Jones, Bev. C. M. — One box birds, Connecticut. 
Kcenan, T. J. B. — Two boxes insects, one box shells, Mississippi. 
Kelley, Dr. A. ^Yay, United States Army. — Fragmei't of tooth of mas- 
todon, Mississippi. 

\KilpatricJx, General J. — Mummied child from Ariea, Peru. 

vKimball, Dr. J. P., United iSfates Army. — Indian scalps, rattle, &c. 

^Kiny, Clarenee. — Twenty-six boxes and two kegs, geological and natu- 
ral history collections from Utah. 

' Kirl-by, Bev. W. IF.— One box specimens natural history, birds' eggs, 
&c.. Fort Simpson, Hudson Bay Territory. 

■/ Kluge, Dr. J. P. — Reptiles and insects, Panama. 

vKnudsen, Taldemar. — Ninety human crania, Sandwich Islands. 

^Ladd, S. A. — Twelve Indian stone relics, New Hampshire. 

^Lartet, Prof. E. — One box prehistoric remains, France. 
v^ Latimer, George. — One box bird skins and one box stone implementSj 
Porto Rico. 

/ Laicrencc, G. V. — Graeulus mexicanus mounted, Cuba. 

, Le Carpentier, Jules. — One box beetles, New Mexico. 

vim, Isaac. — Indian stone axe, Pennsylvania ; specimen of granite per- 
forated l)y Pholas, Nantes, ]^^rance. 

-Lee, Dr. J. — Golden eagle in flesh, Maryland. 
jA'er, James. — Lignite and iron pyrites, District of Columbia. 
Lewis, Dr. James.— One box fresh-water univalves. New York. 

'. Leu-is, S. G. — Diallogite and other minerals, California. 

yLimperf, W. B. — Indian stone relics and eggs of vroodcock, mallard, 
&c., Ohio. 

Lincecum, Dr. Gideon. — One box Lepidoptera, Texas. 
' Lincecum, G. W. — Humming birds, and four boxes birds, insects, &c., 
Texas. 

\ Loclchart, James. — One box insects, Hudson Bay Territory. 



56 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

-'London; Boyal College of Surgeons^ through Professor Floicer. — Skulls 
of lion, ti.uer, jackall, «&C. 

- Lyons, Dr. W. B. — Fossil saurians, New Mexico. 

^ Ltjons, L., Hospital Steioard, United States Army. — Indian implements, 
Dakota. 

' March, WilU.am T. — One box birds, Jamaica. 
Matthews, Dr. W., United States Army. — Bird-skins, eggs, &c., Dakota. 

^Maynard, E. J. — One box bird skins, Florida. 
McCoughtry, ^liss E. G. — Indian. stone implements, Kentucky. 

' McCoy, Miss E. M. — Indian arrow-beads, Indiana. 
McCoy and Ma.nccU, Brs. — Massasauga rattlesnake, Indiana. 

'Mcllvainc, J. II. — Collection of bird skins and Indian relics, Pennsyl- 
vania. 

(' McKcc, Br. J. C, United States Army. — Navajo bracelet, Indian Terri- 
tory. 

' McWcen, J. ]\[. — Skull of mound-builder, Indiana. 
Merritt, J. C. — Indian arrow-beads, New York. 

' Moffatt, Br. P., United States Army. — Indian implements, Oregon. 

Michener, Br. E. — Indian stone relics and type specimen of Eiispiza 
toicnsend ii, Pen n sy 1 van ia . 

Michener, Captain J. — Skin of purple galliuule and ancient relics in 
iron and brass, Maine. 

'■Milborn, Caleb. — Carving in ornamental green marble, Delaware. 
"^Blinor, Br. T. T. — Five boxes ecbnology and natural bistgry, two 
skeletons of sea otter, and box of Indian curiosities, Alaska. 

V Montreal; McGill University, from Pri)icipal Baicson. — One box Indian 
antiquities, Indian axes, &c., Canada. 

I Moore, C. B. — Indian pipes, arrow-beads, &c., Eastern Sbore of Vir- 
g'inia. 
-.Morris, W. ^.— Head of diamond rattlesnake, Mississippi. 

V Nelson, Peter. — Teeth and bones of mastodon, Florida. 

"Newsom, W. Lewis. — A cane carved by Andrew Oliver, a revolutionary 
soldier, and prisoner to tbe British in 1783, New York. 

■^'New Yorlc; Central Parle Commission. — Two living European swans. 
New York. 

^Nichols, D>-.— Ptaccoon in tbe flesh. District of Columbia. 

-'Nixon, J. Sharpc.—Oiw bird [Regnlns satrapa) in flesh, Pennsylvania. 

'^Norris, II. W. — Indian stone relics, Vermont. 

^N'orris, W. 0. — Indian stone relics, Vermont. 

J Orton, Professor. — Collection of bird skins, Ecuador. 

Otis, Br. George A., United States Army. — Four sets bows, bow cases, 
quivers, and Indian trinkets, from the battle-ground of Washita Eiver, 
Indian Territory. 

V Palmer, Br. E. — One box birds' nests and eggs, Fort Wingate. 
., Parker, H. G. — Bill of white pelican, &c., Nevada. 

^ Parrish, Henry M. — Egg of screech owl, Alabama. 
Philadelphia; Academy of Natural Sciences.— Egg of Alca impennis, or 
great auk, Iceland. 

'^Philli2)s, M. W. S. — Indian stone relics, Kentucky. 

^Pitch, Captain, through Agricultural Department. — One crab; Caribbean 
Sea. 

■.Plumho, G. — Indian stone relics, Kentucky. 

Plummer, IL, and Gomegys, H. C— Twenty-three bird skins, Con- 
necticut. 

J Portland; Society of Natural jB'i.s^or?/.— Postpleiscene fossils, Maine. 

\Post, Br. S. A. — Quartz geodes, Syria. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 57 

'^PoiceU, Dr. K., United States Army. — Bow, quiver, &e., Pitt Eiv^er 
Indians, Oregon. 
RarcncU Br. — Land shells and alcoholic preparations, Texas. 
^Beere, J. F. — Collection of bird skins, Ecuador. 

■ Bet Iter f, Dr. Paul. — Three packages of dried plants, Germany. 
'Bet/uohls, Dr. B. M. — Indian pottery, arrow-heads, &C., Alabama. 

--Bidgica)/, Bobert. — One box birds, Illinois. 

Biiui, Lieutenant F. M., United States Armi/. — Forty-two objects Indian 
curiosities, Alaska. 
^Bobinson, Windham. — Bones of young mastodon, (S:c., Virginia. 

■ BofhJtammer, Dr. S. 21. — One Indian soapstoue dish, Florida. 

' . Sartorius, Dr. C. — One box specimens of natural histor^^ and ethnology, 
and a specimen of lii/stra cerifera, Mexico. 

'^ Saxton, Joseph. — Indian stone relics, seeds, «S:c., District of Columbia. 
\ ^ Scammon^ Captain C. 21. — Eostrum of sword-fish. Pacific Ocean ; one 
keg alcoholic specimens, skulls of seals, skins of fur seal, cetacean skulls, 
«Scc., Pacific Coast. 

Sehliitter., William. — One package birds' nests, Germany. 

Schult.::, Dr. C. F. — Indian stone axe, Pennsylvania. 
. Selatcr, Dr. P. L. — Nine bird skins, Bogota. 

Sessions., Lewis. — Nest and eggs of birds, Connecticut. 
'Shanks., William. — Indian stone relics, Indiana. 

Shinier, H. — Electro copy of an Indian copper knife, Illinois. 

Smith, Benjamin H. — Indian stone relics, Pennsylvania. 

V Smith, Hamilton. — Two polished Indian implements of quartz, Indiana. 

■ St. John; Xatural History Soeiety. — Devonian fossil plants, Is^ew 
Brunswick. 

>^' Stearns, B.F. C. — Collections of ancient relics from shell heaps; twenty- 
two species of shells in alcohol, Florida. 

y, Sternberg, Dr. G. 2L, United States Army. — Burial case of an Indian 
child, five boxes vertebrate and other fossils, Kansas. 
. Stevenson, James. — Arapahoe (Indian) saddle, Wyoming Territorj'. 
I. Stimpson, Dr. William. — Indian shell implement, Floricla. 
^ Storroic, Dr. E., United States Army. — Indian implements and relics, 
Idaho Territory. 

t Sumiehrast, Dr. F. — Three boxes birds, mammals, reptiles, &c., Mexico. 
1/ Swift, Dr. E., United States Army. — Indian pottery, stone implements, 
j)ipes, &c., Louisiana. 
. Tate, Balph. — One box shells, Nicaragua. 

'- Thomas, General G. H., United States Army. — Bones of walrus, and 
one box coal, Alaska. 

\ Thompson, B. O. — Three fossil shells, Missouri. 
. Throehinorton, 2Irs. — Indian stone mortar, Arkansas. 
Todd, Dr. W. H. — Indian relics from shell heaps, Maine. 
Totten, Dr. G. 21. — Cormorant and fiying fish, Straits of Magellan. 
Turner, Granville. — Indian stone relics, Illinois. 
Unknown. — One box specimens of coal, one box alcoholic specimens 
insects. 

Vanardale, Henry. — Indian stone hatchet, Indiana. 

V Wagner, Dr. Clinton, United States Army.^SqxuvTel and bird skins 
and Indian implements, &:c., Idaho Territory. 

Wakefield, Dr. — Skin of wren, Campylorhyncus hriinneicapillns, Sonora. 
Warner, John G. — Specimens of rotten stone, Pennsylvania. 
Wanhburn, Hon. Thomas. — Indian arrow-heads, Indiana. 
Washington; Army 2Jedical 2Iuseum. — See Medical Department United 
States Army. 



58 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Washington; Medical Department United States Army. — See Drs. Alden, 
Byrne, Clierbonuier, Gardner, Gliiselin, Gray, Kelley, Kimball, Lyons, 
W. B., McKee, Moffatt, Otis, Powell, Eeynokls, Sternberg, Storror, Swift, 
Wagner, White, Whitehead, and Lyons, E., hospital steward. United 
States Army. 

Washington,, Agricultural JJepartment United States. — See Caprou, 
General H., liavenel. Dr., Geisdorf, Dr. 

1 Wellstood, Stephen. — Cane made of wood of steamer Charlotte Dundas, 
1803, Scotland. 

Wheeler, Bnel. — Indian stone relics, Vermont. 

White, Dr.B, H., United States Army. — Ancient pottery from monnd, 
Alabama. 

I Whitehead, Br. W. E., United States Army. — Indian implements, Wash- 
ington Territory. 
'Whitney, Joseph. — Indian beads, gouge chisel, &c., Maine. 
Wilkinson, S. L. — Collection of Indian relics, minerals, plants, Ten- 
nessee. 
AVilliams, R. C. — Stone implement, Virginia. 
\/ Wilson, Br. S. W. — Four living Amphiuma, Georgia. 
'Wilson, Samnel. — Indian stone implements. New Jersey. 
' Wilson., Thaddeus. — Indian stone relics, New York. 
: Wingate, John B. — Two salamanders and box of insects, Indiana. 
I' Tates, Br. L. G. — Indian skulls and fossil ox bones, and Indian stone 
relics, California. 

Yeager, Mr. — Indian arrow-heads, flint-flakes, &Q.., New York. 
Young, Nathan. — Specimens in alcohol, Indiana. 



LITERARY ANDSCIEiNTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



Tabic sJioicing the statistics of the Smithsonian exchanges in 18G9. 


Agent and country. 


O O) 

si 

a 


o 
rt 

^ IB 

o 01 

B 
k5 


CO 

<s 
o 

O 

o 

a 


Bulk of boxes in 
cubic feet. 


o 


Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic : 

Russia - 


73 

590 
60 

723 


82 

649 

65 








Germany 








Switzerland 















Total 


796 


42 


418 


10 G''>5 






Royal Svredish Society of Sciences, Stock- 
holm : 

Sweden 


16 


19 


2 


23 


500 






Royal University, Christiania : 

Norway 


10 


14 


1 


11 


250 






Royal Danish Society of Sciences, Copen- 
hagen : 

Iceland 


1 

• 20 


1 
22 






Denmark 








t 


Total 


21 


23 


3 


23 


623 






Frederick Milller, Amsterdam : 

Holland 


64 

36 


70 

45 






Belgium 










Total 


100 


115 


6 


6(5 


1 4-^5 




' ^ 


Gustave Bossange, Paris : 

France 


186 

7 
4 


203 
9 
5 






Spain 






Portugal 














Total 


197 


217 


9 


98 


2 COO 






R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere, 
Milan : 

Italy 


83 


85 


3 


33 


825 






W illiam Wesley, London : 

Great Britain and Ireland 


291 


309 


16 


161 


4,025 






University of Melbourne : 

Australia and New Zealand 


20 


41 


4 


40 


1 000 






Rest of the world 


108 


115 


20 


IGO 


2 000 






Grand total .. . 


1,569 


1,734 


112 


1, 033 


23 376 







60 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



Faclcages received hy the Smithsonian Institution from parties in America^ 
for foreign distribution, in 1869. 



Address. 



ALB.VNY, NEW YORK. 

Regents of New York State Univer- 
sity 

New York State Library 

New York State Agricultural Soci- 
ety 

ANX ARBOR, MICHIGAN. 

Professor A. Wincbell 

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND. 

P.R.Uliler 

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences - 

American Social Science Associa- 
tion 

American Statistical Association 

Board of State Charities 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Massacliiisetts Historical Society.. 

Public Library 

Dr. B. A. Gould 

Dr. Howe, (Perkins Institute for 
Blind) _ 

S. H. Scudder 

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Association for Advance- 
ment of Science 

Harvard College , 

Museum of Comparative Zoology . , 

Professor L. Agassiz 

Alex. Agassiz 

Professor Wyman , 

CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Medical Society of South Carolina.. 

COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

Ohio State Agricultural Society 

Dr. W. B. SuUivant 

Leo Lesquereux 

DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr. Edward Jarvis 

EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Professor T. C. Porter 



6,^ 




30 



26 



151 

41 
1 

63 
298 

11 

5 

189 

1 
93 



54 

24 

416 

16 
14 



19 



95 
3 
3 



10 



HAVANA, CUBA. 

Professor F. Poey 

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA. 

Institution for Education of Blind 

JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

Institution for the Blind 

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN. 

Professor L. A. Lapham 

MONTREAL, CANADA. 

Professor J. W. Dawson 

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. 

Geological Survey of Tennessee. . 

NEW ALBANY, INDIANA. 

Dr. E. S. Crosier 

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT. 

American Journal of Science 

Professor E. J. Brush 

Professor J. D. Dana 

Professor A. E. Verrill 

NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

State Lunatic Asylum 

NEW YORK. 

American Journal of Mines 

New York Lyceum of Natural His- 
tory 

American Christian Commission.. 

United States Sanitary Commis- 
sion 

Thomas Bland 

T. S. Bickmoro , 

E. Steiger , 

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Pharmaceutical Society. 
American Philosophical Society . . . 
American Entomological Society .. 
Pennsylvania House of Refuge 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 61 

Packages received from parties in America^ &c. — Contiuned. 







Address, 


Philadelphia, pa. — Coutiuucd. 




Pennsylvania Institute for Deaf and 
Dumb 


25 
1 

25 

199 

13 


Public Schools 


Society for Alleviating Miseries of 

Public Prisons. 
Dr. Isaac Lea 


Dr. John L. Leconte 


PORTLAND, JIALNE. 


Natural History Society 


150 


PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. 




A. D. Brown 


12 


PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. 


R. I. Historical Society 


3 


QUEBEC, CANADA. 




Literary and Historical Society 


11 


SALEJI, MASSACHUSETTS. 




Essex Institute 


149 
115 


Peabody Academy of Science 


SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNLi. 




California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences 


30 
2 


Henry Edwards . .. 


F. Grover 


1 


ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI. 




Academy of Sciences 


190 





Adtlress. 



ST. JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK. 

Natural History Society 

ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA. 

Minnesota Historical Society 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 

Professor H. A. Wortlieu 

TORONTO, CANADA. 

Canadian Institute 

Observatory 

Dr. C. J. Bethune 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

Bureau of Statistics 

Interior Deiiartment 

Nautical Almauuc Office 

United States Coast Survey 

United States Agricultural Depart 

nient 

United States Department of Edu 

cation , 

United States Naval Observatory 

United States Patent Office 

William H. Dall 

Dr. F. V. Hayden 

Dr. C. C. Parrv 

Dr. F. B. Hough 

WINNEBAGO, ILLINOIS. 

M.L.Bebb 

Unknown 

Total 






7 

10 
2 



300 

1 

68 

15 

500 

35 
140 
1 
142 
6 
1 
3 



1 

47 



5,220 



62 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



Packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, in 18G9, 
for distribution in America. 



Address. 




ALBANY, NEW YORK. 

Albany Institute 

Bureau of Military Statistics 

Dudley Observatory 

New York State Agricultural Society 
New York State Cabinet of Natural 

History 

New York State Library 

New York State University 

Hon. Francis C. Barlow 

Professor J. Hall 

Dr. Tboinas Hun 

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst College 

Professor E. Hitchcock 

Professor E. Tuckernian 

AKNAPOLIS, JIARYLAND. 

United States Naval Academy 

ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN. 

University of Michigan 

Observatory 

Dr. Roniinger 

J. C. Watson 

Professor A. Winchell 

ATHENS, ILLINOIS. 

Professor Elihu Hall 

ATHENS, OHIO. 

Ohio University ' 

AUSTIN, NEVADA. 

Dr. J. Storch 

BALDWIN CITY, KANSAS. 

Baker University 

BALTIMORE, MARYLjVND. 

Maryland Historical Society 

Peabody Institute 

University of Maryland 

Rev. E. A. Dalrymple 

Professor S. S. Haldeman 

Dr. J. G. Morris 

Dr. P. R.Uhler 

A. Vocke 

BETHLEHEM, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Dr. Charles M. Wctherill 



4 

1 

30 

34 

11 

33 
6 
1 

18 
1 



4 

22 

3 

1 

15 



Address. 



BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS. 

Illinois Natural History Society.. . 

BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA. 

Indiana State University 



BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 

American Social Science Association 

American Statistical Association .. 

Board of State Charities 

Boston Athenaeum 

Boston Mercantile Library Associa- 
tion 

Boston Society of Natural History. 

Bowditcli Library 

Geological Survey of Massachusetts 

Massachusetts Historical Society. 

Massachusetts Institute of Tech 
"ology ., 

Massachusetts Society for Proven 
tion of Cruelty to Animals 

Massachusetts Teachet 

New England Historic-Genealogi 
cal Society 

North American Review 

Perkins Institute for Blind 

Prison Discipline Society 

Public Library 

State Library 

Rev. W. R. Alger 

Dr. Brewer 

C. G. Brewster 

William Brott 

J. L. Clarke 

C. Hovey 

Dr. Charles T. Jackson 

Dr. J. S. Lombard 

Miss E. Marmodel 

Joliu Perry 

A.P.Rockwell 

W. B. Rogers 

F. B. Sanborn 

S. H. Scudder 

R.E. C. Stearns 

Dr. F. H. Storer 

Walker, Fuller «&- Co 

BROOKLYN, NEW YORK. 

Long Island Historical Society... 

James Akhurst 

H.C. Murphy 

BRUNSWICK, MAINE. 

Bowdoin College 

Historical Society of Maine 






LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 63 

Packages received from Europe, &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



BUFF^VLO, NEW YORK. 

Buffalo Historical Societ j^ 

Natural History Society 

BURLINGTOX, NEW JERSEY. 
W. G. Binney 

BURLINGTON, VERMONT. 

University of Vermout 

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Association for Advance- 
ment of Science 

Astronomical Journal 

Harvard College 

Herbarium of Harvard College ... 
Museum of Comparative Zoology. 
Observatory of Harvard College.. 

A. Agassiz 

Professor L. Agassiz 

Dr. E. H.Clark 

Dr. B. A. Gould 

Professor Asa Gray 

Dr. H. Hagen 

Dr. J. W.Hoyt 

Dr. Thomas Lyman 

Dr. G. A. Maack 

Albert Ordway 

Professor B. Peirce 

Professor Jared Sparks 

Professor J. I). Whitney 

Dr. J. Winlock 

Professor J. Wyman 

CENTRE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANLi. 

Professor H. J. Clark 

CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS. 

State Industrial University 

CHAPEL HILL, NORTH CAROLINA. 

University of North Carolina 

CHAPPELL HILL, TEXAS. 

Soul6 University 

CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Charleston Museum 

Elliott Society of Natural History . 
Society Library 

South Carolina Historical Society. 






33 

2 

108 

2 

30 

46 

3 

68 

1 

14 

1.5 

12 

1 

3 

1 

1 

2 

1 

3 

3 

3 




CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA. 

University of Virginia 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 

Chicago Academy of Science 

Chicago Board of Trade 

Dearborn Observatory 

University 

Young Men's Association Library.. 

Dr. Andrews 

Mr. Le Barou 

Prolessor F. H. McChesuev 

T. H. Safford ' 

Dr. W. Stimpson 

CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

American Medical College 

Astronomical 0))Scrvatory 

Mercantile Library 

National Normal 

Dr. Cleveland Abbe 

Dr. liominger 

CLINTON, NEW YORK. 

Observatory of Hamilton College . 
Dr. C. H. F. Peters 

CO.VLBURGII, WEST VIRGINIA. 

W. H. Edwards 

COLUMBLV, MISSOURI. 

Geological Survey of ]Missouri 

Missouri L^niversity 

Dr. G. C. Swallow 

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA. 

South Carolina College 

University of South Carolina 

COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

Ohio Educational ]\Ionthly 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture.. . 

Professor Leo Lesquereux 

John A. Norris 

Dr. William B. Sullivaut 

CONCORD, NEW H.iMPSHIRE. 

New Hampshire Historical Society. 

CREDIT, ONTARIO, CANADA. 

Rev. C.J. S. Bethuue 






75 

1 

22 



16 



64 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Packages received from Europe^ &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



DECORAH, IOWA. 

Lutheran College 

DELAWARE, OHIO. 

Ohio Wesleyan University. 
Dr. Slotner \. 



DES MOINES, IOWA. 

Geological Survey of Iowa.. 

Iowa School Journal 

State Library 



DETROIT, MICHIG^m. 

Michigan State Agricultural So- 
ciety 



DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr. Edward Jarvis 

EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA. 

La Fayette College 

Professor T. C. Porter 



ENTERPRISE, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Joseph Gibbons 

ERIE, PENNSY'LVANIA. 

Rev. L. G. Oimstead 

EV^\:XSTON, ILLLNOIS. 

Oliver Marcy 

FARMINGTON, CONNECTICUT. 

Edward Norton 

FORT iNIACON, NORTH CAROLINA. 

Dr. Elliott Cones 

ER^VNKFORT, KENTUCKY. 

Geological Survey of Kentucky... 

GAMBIER, OHIO. 

Ken yon College 

GEORGETOWN, D. C. 

Georgetown College 



20 



11 



Address. 



GREENCASTLE, INDIANA. 

Indiana Asbury University 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA. 

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural 
Science 

HAMU.TON, NEW Y'ORK. 

Madison University 

HANOVER, INDIANA. 

Frank H. Bradley 

■ HANOVER, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Dartmouth CoUege 

Dartmouth Obervatory 



HARLEM, NEW YORK. 

Dr. Seyffarth. 

HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA. 

State Library 

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. 



Young Men's Institute. 

Physical Society 

Mrs. Samuel Colt 



HAVANA, CUBA. 



Dr. Gundlach 

Professor F. Poey . 



HAVERFORD, PENNSYLVANL4.. 

Haverford College 

HAZLETON, PENNSYLVjVNIA. 

J.N. Porter 

HUDSON, OHIO. 

Western Reserve College 

INDEPENDENCE, TEX^VS. 

Baylor University 

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA. 

Institution for Blind 

Dr. W. W. Butterlield 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Fackages received from Eurojye, d'c. — Continued. 



65 




IX3IAXS"\aLLE, WISCONSIN. 

Wisconsin Scandinavian Society... 

IOW.\ CITY, IOWA. 

Grand Lodge of Iowa 

State University 

Professor G. Hiuriclis 

Dr. Charles A. Wliite 

ITHACA, NEW TOHK. 

Cornell College 

JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS. 

Institution for Blind 

J.VNES^^LLE, WISCONSIN. 

Wisconsin Institution for Blind 

JXFFERSON CITY, JIISSOURI. 

Governor of the State of Missouri . . . 

LEB.VNON, TENNESSEE. 

Cumberland University 

Professor James Safford 

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. 

L^niversity of Transylvania 

LEXINGTON, VIP.GINLV. 

Washington College 

M.F.Maury 

Commodore Semmes 

LEWISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA. 

University 

LITTLE- EOCK, ARKANSAS. 

State Library 

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY. 

University of Louisville 

MADISON, WISCONSIN. 

Emigranten 

Geological Survey of Wisconsin 

State Historical Society of Wiscon- 
sin 

5 s 



1 

38 
5 
1 



34 



JL\DIS0N, WISCONSIN — Continued. 

State Library 

University of Wisconsin 

Wisconsin Natural History Society. 
Wisconsin State Agricultural So- 
ciety 

MARIETTA, OHIO. 

Professor E. B. Andrews 

JIIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT. 

Wesleyan University 

MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA. 

Oglethorpe University 

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN. 

German NatiU'al History Society. 
Hon. J. A. Lapham 

MONTPELIER, VERJIONT. 

State Library 

MONTREAL, CANADA. 

Geological Survey of Canada 

Natural History Society 

P. P. Carpenter 

Professor J. AV. Dawson 

Sir W.E.Logan 

Dr. Sterry Hunt 

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. 

University of Nashville 

Dr. Jones 

NEGAUNEE, MICHIGAN. 

Major T. B. Brooks 

NEW ALBANY, INDIANA. 

New Albany Society of Natural 
History 

NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS. 

John H. Thomson 

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY. 

Geological Survey of New Jersey . 
Professor George H. Cooke 



16 
1 
5 



66 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Faclcages received from Europe^ &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT. 

American Journal of Science and 

Art 

American Oriental Society 

Connecticut Academy of Science. . 

Yale College 

Professor G. F. Brush 

Professor J. D. Dana 

Professor D. C. Eaton 

Professor E. Looniis 

Professor O. C. Marsh 

Professor A. Newton 

Professor D. Olmstead 

Professor Palmer 

Professor B. Silliman 

Professor A. C. Twining 

Professor A. E. Verrill 

Professor W. D. Whitney 

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 

New Orleans Academy of Sciences. 

NEW OXEORD, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Dr. G. Pfeiffer 



NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr.Earle 



NEW YORK, NEW YORK. 

American Christian Commission . . . 

American Ethnological Society 

American Geographical and Sta- 
tistical Society 

American Institute 

American Journal of Mining 

American Microscopical Society . . . 

Astor Library 

Columbia College 

Herbarium of Columbia College . . 

Lyceum of Natural History 

Mercantile Library Association 

The Nation 

New York Academy of Medicine . . 

New York Historical Society 

Numismatic and Archajological 
Society 

School of Mines 

United States Sanitary Commis- 
sion 

University 

Albert S. Bickmore 

Thomas Bland 

Dr. Brown, (Bloomingdale) 

Dr. John C. Daltou 

Professor E. C. Day 

Captain J. M. Dow 






66 
31 
32 
17 
5 
43 

:^ 

10 

.11 

" 6 

1 

1 

13 

2 

8 

13 



35 



25 
14 

51 

10 
4 
4 

12 
1 
1 

96 
2 

1 

5 
4 

1 

4 

14 
7 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 



Address. 



New York, n. y. — Continued. 

Dr. J. W. Draper 

Dr. Asa Fitch 

General J. Fremont 

Dr. Gescheidt 

Henry Grinnell 

Dr. AVilliam A. Ilanmiond 

Mr. Harlan 

Rev. G. C. Holls 

Dr. Francis Lieber 

C. Loosey 

Dr. J. S. NcAvberry 

Dr. J. C. Nott 

Baron R. Osten-Sacken 

Dr. Paine 

Messrs. Parker & Douglas 

Dr. R. W.Raymond 

Victor C. Reeve 

Lewis M. Rutherford 

E. G. Squier 

Professor George Thurber 

Professor John Torrey 

J. Watts de Peyster 

OSWEGO, NEW YORK. 

Professor Raj)hael Pumpelly 

OXFORD, OHIO. 

Miami Univers.ity 

OXFORD, MISSISSIPPI. 

University of Mississippi 

Eugene W. Hilgard 

PEORIA, ILLINOIS. 

Dr. F. Brendel 

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Entomological Society. 

American Journal of Conchology. 

American Journal of Medical Sci- 
ence 

American Pharmaceutical Associa- 
tion 

American Philosoi)hical Society. . 

Athenaeum 

Central High School 

Franklin Institute 

Girard College 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania 

House of Refuge 

Library Company 

Medical Society of Pennsylvania. 

Mercantile Library 



1^ ^. 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Packages received from Europe, &c. — Continued. 



67 



Address. 




Philadelphl\, pa. — Continued. 

Xorth American Medico-CIiirurgical 
Review 

Numismatic and Antiquarian Society 

Observatory of Girard College 

Pennsylvania Horticultural Society. 

Pennsylvania Institute for Blind. .. 

Pennsylvania Institute for Deaf and 
Dumb 

Pennsylvania Society for Prevention 
of Cruelty to Animals 

Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. 

Public Schools 

University of Pennsylvania 

Wagner Free Institute of Science . . . 

E. R. Beadle 

W. G. Binuev 

L. Blodget ..\ 

H. C. Carey 

G. W. C h ilds 

Dr. E. D. Cope 

E. T. Cresson 

Lemuel J. Deal 

Beunot Dowler 

W. H.Edwards 

W. M. Gabb... 

C. F. Hagedorn 

R. Hare 

Dr. Isaac Hays 

Dr. George H. Horn 

Dr. Isaac Lea 

Dr. John L. Le Coute 

Dr. J. Leidv 

J. P. Lesley 

B. V. Marsii 

Dr. J. A. Meigs 

Dr. 8. Weir Mitchell 

Dr. John H. Packard 

Dr. M. Richardson 

Dr. Theiss 

(t. W. Tryon, jr 

Professor W. Wagner 

Dr. H. C. Wood 

rORTLAXD, MAINE. 



Maine Journal of Education 

Portland Society of Natural History. 
Dr. A. C. Hamlin \. 



POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK. 

Observatory of Vassar College.. 
Miss Maria Mitchell 



\ 



PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. 



College of New Jersey. 

A. D. Brown 

Pre fessor A. Guyot 



Address. 



PKOCTORSVILLE, VIRGINIA. 

Professor Albert D. Hager 

PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. 

Brown University 

Rhode Island Historical Society. .. 

Rev. Dr. Caswell 

Stephen Olney 

Edwin M. Snow 

QUEBEC, CANADA. 

Literary and Historical Society. .. 

QUINCY, ILLINOIS. 

Professor Rossmassler 



6.^ 



RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA. 

Dr. Fisher 

Professor W. C. Kerr 



RED AVING, MINNESOTA. 

Hamline University 



RICHMOND, VIRGINIA. 

State Library 

Oswald J. Heinrich 



ROCHESTER, NEV,' YORK. 

Dr. Ward 



ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS. 

B.A.Walsh 



ST. LOUIS, jnSSOURI. 

Deutsches Institut zur Befijrderung 

der Wissenchafteu 

Journal of Education 

St. Louis Academy of Sciences 

University 

Ernst von Angelrodt 

Professor William Chauvenet 

Dr. G. Engelmauu 

Dr. Holmes 

Dr. H. A. Prout 

Maurice Schuster 

Dr. B. F. Shumard 



ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA. 

Minnesota Historical Society. 

SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 



Essex Institute 

Peabody Academy of Science 



1 
1 
li:i 
3 
\\ 
2 
4 
1 
1 
2 
8 



Gl 
G 



68 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Packages received, from Euroi)e^ &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



S.vLKM, JiASS. — Coutinued. 



Dr. A. S.Packard, jr. 
William S. West .... 



S.VLEM, Or.EGOX. 

Willamette University . . . 



SAN FRAX'CISCO, CALIFORNIA. 

California Academy of Sciences . . . 
•Geological Survey of California... 

H.G. Bloomer 

H. N. Bolauder 

S. Brannan, jr 

H. Edwards 

■Captain Eldridge 

iBarou Richthofen 



SANTA BARBARA, CALIFORNIA. 

Alexander Taylor 



SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA. 

University of the Pacific 



SAUK RAPIDS, JIINNESOTA. 

J. n.Kloos 



SING SING, NEW YORK. 

Dr. G. J. Fisher 

Dr. W. H. Helm 



SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 

Geological Survey of Illinois 

Illinois State Agricultural Society. 

The Schoolmaster, Normal 

Professor A. H. Worthen 




TORONTO, CANADA. 



Canadian Institute 

Literary and Historical Society. 

Observatory 

University of Canada 

Dr. Samuel Wilson 



TUSCALOOSA, ALABA3IA. 

University of Alabama 



61 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
1 



Address. 



UTICA, NEW YORK. 

American Journal of Insanity. 

Dr. Grey 

Colonel E. Jewett 






WASHINGTON, D. C. 



President Grant 

American Nautical Almanac 

Bureau of Navigation 

Bureau of Ordnance and Hydro- 
graphy 

Biu'eau of Statistics 

Census Bureau 

Corps of Topographical Engineers. 

Department of Agriculture 

Department of Education 

Engineer Bureau 

Hydrographic Office 

Interior Department 

Library of Congress 

National Academy of Sciences 

Navy Departmept 

Ordnance Bureau 

Quartermaster General's Office 

Secretary of the Navy 

Secretary of State 

Secretary of the Treasury 

Secretary of War 

State Department 

Surgeon General's Office , 

Survey of North American Lakes . , 

Topographical Bureau 

United States Coast Survey 

General Land Office , 

United States Naval Observatory.. 

United States Patent Office 

War Department 

Washington Public Schools 

Colonel H. L. Abbott , 

F. L. Apel 

Professor S. F. Baird 

Hon. Henry Barnard 



W.VTERVILLE, MAINE. 

Waterville College 



WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Antiquariau Society 



Total addresses of institutions. 
Total addresses of individuals . 



238 

263 



Total number of parcels to institutions. 
Total number of parcels to individuals . 



3, 245 

885 



501 



4, 130 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1860. 



B. signifies barometer ; P. psychrometer : T. tliermometer ; It. rain gauge ; A. all four iustniments ; 

X. uo iustiument. 



Name of observer. 



BKITIsn AJIEKICA. 

St. John, Newfoundland 

Stanbridge. Quebec, Canada 

"Wolfville. (Acadia College,) 
Xova Scotia. 

Clifton, Ontario, Canada 

Abitibi Post, Hudson Bay Terri- 
tory. 

St. John. Xe'n- Brunswick 

Winnipeg. Assiniboin 



Caswell. Eev. E. C. . 
Gilmour, A. H. J..-. 
Higgins, Prof.D.r. 

Jones, TT. ilartin. . 
Lockliart, James. . . 



llurdocli. G 

Stewart, James . 



MEXICO. 



ilirador. Vera Cruz. 



EEKJIUDA. 

Center Signal Station, St. Georges 

AL.ivBAilA. 



Sartorius, Dr. Charles. 



PiOyal Engineers, (in the 
iloyal Gazette.) 



47 33 

•15 8 
45 G 



45 16 42 
49 5-2 



Carlowville. Dallas Co i Alison, H. L.. :U. D. . . 

Near Havana. Hale Co i Jennings, S. K.. M. L). 

Moultou, Lawrence Co [ Peters,"Thomas M . . . 

Opilika, Lee Co ' Shields, iliss Ella B. . 

Mobile. Mobile Co Taylor, L. B 

Greene Sprinss School, Hale Co. Tutwiler. Prof H 

Fish Pviver, Baldwin Co Vaukirk, W.J 



ALASKA. 



Sitka . 



32 to 
32 30 
34 27 



30 41 34 
32 50 



Bryant, Charles. 



ARKANSAS. 



Helena, Phillips Co Eussell, 0. F 



CALIFORXIA. 



Monterey, Monterey Co Canfield, Dr. C. A 



Chico, Butte Co. 

Watson ville, Santa Cruz Co. 

Murphy's. Calaveras Co 

Mare Island 

Vacaville, Solano Co 

Stony Point, Sonoma Co. 



Paradise City, Stanislaus Co. . . 



COLORADO TERKITOKY. 



Cheney. "Dr. W. F... 
Compton, Dr. A. J. . . 
Cutting, Ephraim . .. 

Xaval Hos])ital 

Simmons, Prof. J. C. 



Thornton. Dr 38 40 



Wri'iht, J. W. A. 



36 36 
39 44 45 
36 56 
38 10 
38 6 19 
38 21 21 



52 43 
73 

64 25 



66 3 45 
97 



87 15 
87 41 
85 25 



88 10 
87 46 



37 30 



Denver, Arapahoe Co [ Evers, William X., and 

I 'S. Y. Sopris. 
Canon City, Fremont Co , Macon, Thomas ' 33 30 



CON"XECTICUT. 

Pomfret. Windham Co ! Hunt, Rev. Daniel 



Middletown. Middlesex Co. 

Colebrook. Litchfield Co 

Brookfleld, Fairfield Co 

Waterbury. Xew Haven Co . 
Columbia, Tolland Co 



Johnson, Prof. John. . 
Kockwill. Miss C... 
Eoe, lu-v. .Sanford W. 
WilHuin.s lipv. R. G . 
Teomans, William G. 



41 52 

41 33 
42 

42 27 
41 33 
41 40 



30 



90 8 46 



121 52 
121 44 37 

121 46 40 

120 30 

122 15 19 

121 5S 23 

122 50 
120 55 



105 

105 



72 20 

72 39 

73 3 
73 33 
73 2 
72 42 



DELAWARE. 

Milford, Kent Co ! Whittier. Mrs. A. C ' 33 55 

I i 

FLORIDA. 

Jacksonville, Duval Co ' Baldwin Dr. A. S [ 30 15 

Ocala, Marion Co { Barker, Edward I 

Manatee, Manatee Co I Coachman, B. A I 27 30 



75 30 



82 
'82'45" 



Feet. 
120 



135 
650 



3,000 



300 

500 
643 



34 

150 

45 

2, 201 



B. T. 

T. 
A. 

T. 
T. 

A. 
A. 



T.R. 
P. T. K. 
B. T. 11. 

T. P.. 

T. K. 

T. R. 

T. K. 



B. T. E. 



T. 



A. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 
29^ B. T. R. 
175' B. T. R. 
500 T. R- 
125 P. T.R. 



5, 350 
4,700 



587 

205 

1,210 

100 



20 



A. 
A. 

T.R. 

T.R. 

B. T. R. 

T.R. 



T.R. 



A. 

T. 

T.R. 



70 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological stations aiid observers, <^c., for the year 1869. — Coutiuucd. 



Station. 



Florida — Continued. 



Pllatka, Putnam Co 

Port Orange, Volusia Co 



Lake City, Columbia Co 

Chattahpochie Ai'senal, Gadsden 

Co. 
Kear Pilatka, Putnam Co 



GEORGIA. 



Macon, Bibb Co 

Atlanta, Tulton Co 

St. Mary's, Camden Co . 

Macon, "Bibb Co 

Penfield, Greene Co 

Macon, Bibb Co 



ILLDsOIS. 



Elmore, Peoria Co 

Near Tiskilwa, Bureau Co . 

Sandwich, De Kalb Co 

Elmira, Stark Co 

Andalusia, Rock Island Co. 

Peoria, Peoria Co 

Springfield, Sangamon Co. . 

ChicaM, Cook Co 

Alta, iee Co 

Louisville, Clay Co 

Loammi, Sangamon Co 

Decatur, Macou Co 

Mount Sterling, Brown Co . 

Golconda, Pope Co 

Pana, Christian Co 

Near South Pass, Union Co. 

Manchester, Scott Co 

Wapella, De Witt Co 

Mattoon, Coles Co 

Marengo, McHcnry Co 

Chicago, Cook Co 

Galesburg, Knox Co 

Evanston, Cook Co 

Augusta, Hancock Co 

Ottawa, La SaUe Co 

Belvidere, Boone Co 

Near Wyanet, Bureau Co 



Marengo, McHenry Co. 
King's Mills, Kane Co. . 



Dubois, "Wa.shington Co 

"Waterloo, Monroe Co 

Wiunebago Depot, Winnebago 
Co. 

Effingham, Effingliam Co 

Warsaw, Hancock Co 



Near Laporte, Laporte Co. . . 
Mount Carmel, lYanklin Co . 



Valparaiso, Porter Co 

Vevay, Switzerland Co. . . 
New Harmony, Posey Co. 

Laconia, Harrison Co 

New Albany, Floyd Co. . . 

Spiceland, Henry Co 

Knightstown, IJush Co . . 
Bloomington, Monroe Co . 

Merom, Sullivan Co 

Jalapa, Grant Co 

Muncie, Delaware Co 

Kensselaer, Jasper Co 



Name of observer. 



Fiske, W.M. L... 
Hawks, Dr. J. M.^ 

Mrs. 
Ives^ Edward R. . . 
Martin, M 



and 



Eobinson, Gen. Geo. D. 



Adams, J. F 

Deckner, F., and sons. 
Hillyer, H. L 

Proctor, Miss S. M 

Sanford, Prof. S. P 

Whitney. Miss S. J.... 



Adams, W. H 

Aldrich, Verry 

Ballou, N. E..^ 

Blanchard, O. A 

Bowmau, E. H 

Brendel, Dr. F 

Brinkerhoflf, Geo. M 

Brookes, Saniuel 

Carev, Daniel 

Chase, Dr. D. H 

Dudley, Timothy 

Dudley, Timothy 

Duncan, Rev. Alexander 

Eldridge, W. V 

Finley, Dr. Thomas . . . 

Freeman, H. C 

Grant, John, and C. W. 

Grafif, T. Louis 

Henry, W.E 

James, J. W 

Langgiith, John G., jr. . 

Livingston, Prof. W 

Marcy, Prof. Oliver 

Mead, Dr. S. B 

Merwin, Mrs. E. H 

Moss, G.B 

Phelps, E. S., and Miss 

L.E. 

Rogers, O.P., and F 

Spaulding, Dr. A., and 

Mrs. 

Spencer, W. C 

Sum, Francis 

Tolman, J. W., and Miss. 



Thompson, Dr. W. 
Whitakef.B 



30 10 
30 48 



32 50 

33 45 
30 50 
32 50 



32 47 



41 15 
41 31 
41 12 
41 25 

40 43 
39 48 
41 

41 45 

38 40 

39 40 
39 40 
40 

37 41 
39 24 21 



39 33 

40 11 

39 29 10 
42 13 

42 

40 55 
42 1 

40 10 

41 20 

42 15 

41 30 

42 14 

41 45 

38 14 

38 30 

42 17 

39 3 

40 20 



82 40 
84 48 



83 37 
84 

81 40 
83 30 30 



83 47 



89 15 

88 30 

90 15 

90 46 

89 30 
89 33 
87 

89 

88 30 
90 

89 10 

91 15 

88 46 

89 6 5 



90 14 30 

89 7 



and 



39 22 

41 29 
38 40 
38 08 
37 47 



Andrew, Fred. G 
Applegate, J. A. 

daughter. 
Beer, Rev. Robert . . 
Boerner, Charles G. 
Chajipelsmith, John 

Crosier, A 

Crosier, Dr. E. S I 38 02 

Dawson, William I 39 43 

39 46 
39 15 

39 5 

40 40 
40 12 
40 50 



88 31 

87 30 

90 25 

87 38 
91 

88 47 

88 47 

89 45 

88 38 

88 22 

89 16 

90 20 
89 12 

88 5 

91 31 



Deem, D 

Dodd, Prof. CM 

Holmes, Thomas , 

Irwin, A. C 

Kemper, G. W. H., M. D. 

Loughridge, J. H 

* Estimated. 



84 51 

87 6 

84 59 20. 5 
87 50 

85 50 
85 32 
85 18 

85 24 

86 28 

87 40 
85 43 
85 16 
87 13 



184 
180 



339 

1,050 

25 

1,300 



1,300 



550 
065 



735 
650^ 



740 
780 
600 



842 
696 



T.R. 
T.R. 



P. T. R. 



T.R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 

A. 
T.R. 

A. 



R. 

T. 

A. 
T.R. 
B. T. 

A. 

T. 

T. 

T. 
T.R. 
T.R. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 
T.R. 
T. R. 

A. 

N. 

T.R. 
T. R. 

A. 

A. 

A. 

A. 
T.R, 
T.R. 
T.R. 

B. T. E. 
A. 

T.R. 

T.R. 

B. T. R. 

T.R. 
T.R. 



525 
350 



184*1 T.R. 
900* T. R. 



E. 

A. 

A. 

T.R. 

B. T. R 

B. T. R 

A. 

A. 
T.R. 
T.R. 
T.R. 
T.R. 



553 
1,025 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 71 

List of mefcor/iloijical staiioits and observers, i^x.,for the year 1869 — Coutiuued. 



Stations. 



Indiana— Continued. 

Columbia City, Whitley Co 
Lnlaycttc. Tippecanoe Co . . 

Canni'ltdii, I'n ry Co 

Iventlaiid, Xewt'on Co 

Aurora, Dearborn Co 

Harveysburg, Fountain Co. 
Indianapolis, Marion Co 



Boonsboro, Boone Co 

Lizard P. O., Pocabontas Co 

Yawter's Grove, Adair Co 

Mount Vernon, Linn Co 

Guttenberg, Clayton Co 

Kear Algoua, Kossuth Co 

Near Newton, Jasper Co 

Clinton, Clinton Co 

Dubuque, Dubuque Co 

Waukon, Alamakee Co 

Fort Dodge, AVebster Co 

"West Union, Fayette Co 

Near Fort Madison, Lee Co 

Grant City, Sac Co 

Monticello, Jones Co 

Iowa City, Johnson Co 

Davenport, Scott Co 

Waterloo, Black Hawk Co 

Harris Grove, Harrison Co 

Near Bolfe, Pocahontas Co 

Mineral Kidge, Boone Co 

Spring Grove, Hardin Co 

Muscatine, Muscatiue Co 

The Woodlands, Floyd Co 

Independence, Buchanan Co 

Algona, Kossuth Co 

Byron Township, Buchanan Co. 
Whitesboro, Harrison Co 



Vinton, Benton Co 

Bowen's Prairie, Jones Co. 



Olathe, Johnson Co 

Is ear Ames, Story Co 

Burlington, Coffey Co 

Crawfordsville, Crawford Co . 
Neosho Falls, Woodson Co . . . 
Atchison, Atchison Co 



Baxter Springs, Cherokee Co. . . 

Manhattan, liiley Co 

Near Leroy, Coffey Co 

Lawrence, Douglas Co 

Leavenworth, Leavenworth Co. 

Near Paoli, Miami Co 

Holton, Jackson Co 

Council Grove, Morris Co 



KENTUCKY. 

Danville, Boyle Co 

Clinton, Hickman Co 

Louisville, Jefferson Co 

Pine Grove, Clark Co 

Arcadia, Lincoln Co 

Lexington, Fayette Co 

Lexington, Fayette Co 

Springdale, (near Louisville,) Jef- 
ferson Co. 



Name of observer. 



McCoy, Dr. F. and Miss 

Newton, J. W 

Smith, Palmer 

Spitler, Daniel 

Sutton, George 

Williams, Mrs. Dr. B. C . 
Woolen, Dr. G. V 



Babcock, E 

Bruce, J. J 

Bryant, A. F 

Collin, Prof. Alouzo 

Dickinson, Jarnes P 

Dorweiler, P 

Failor, A 

Farnsworth, P. J 

Horr, Dr.A.andE. W.. 

Hancock, E. M 

Jorgenson, C.N 

McClintock,F 

McCready, Daniel 

Miller, E., and Mrs. E. . 

Moulton, M .M 

Parvin, Prof Thomas S 

Sheldon, Prof. D. S 

Steed, D 

Stern, Jacob F 

Strong, Oscar I 

Sullivan, J. T 

Townsend, N 

Walton, J. P 

Wadey, H 

Warne, Dr. George 

Warren, James H 

Wheaton, Mrs. D. B . . . . 
Witter, D. K. and Miss 
M.E. 

Wood, James 

Woodworth, S 



41 10 



Beckwith, W 

Cotton, John M 

Crocker, Allen 

Daniels, Percy 

Groesbeck, Mrs. E. W. . . 
Horn, Dr. H. B. and 

Miss C. 
In graham and Hvlaml . . 

Mudge, Prof. B. F 

Sh.ifniaker.J.G 

Sue, w. Prof F. H 

Sta vmaii, Dr. J 

Walrad, L. D 

Walters, Dr. James 

Woodworth, Dr. A 



Beatty, O ■ 

Clelaud, T. H 

Alanly, Dr. Samuel D. 
jSIartiu, Dr. Samuel D 

Shriver, Howard 

Williams, N 

Williams, S. R 

Young, Mrs. L 



'Estimated. 



37 57 
40 50 
39 5 54 
3!) 55 

39 47 



4-2 

4-2 30 

41 20 

4-2 

43 

43 

42 

41 47 

42 30 



42 30 
42 53 

40 37 
42 10 
42 15 

41 30 53 

40 31 

42 30 
41 

42 50 

42 6 

43 32 

41 25 
43 

42 25 

43 5 

42 29 25 

41 38 

42 15 
42 15 



38 50 
42 

38 8 
37 53 
37 

39 42 

37 3 

39 12 

38 6 23 

38 55 

39 20 

38 30 

39 27 
38 40 



37 40. 
30 40 



38 4 

37 34 

38 6 
38 6 

38 C 55 



85 30 



86 41 30 

87 12 
84 54 
87 40 



93 14 

94 25 
94 30 
91 30 
90 50 
94 20 
94 

90 10 
90 39 51 



94 

91 50 
91 28 
94 57 30 
91 15 

91 30 10 

90 40 

92 30 
95 

94 34 

93 40 

93 20 

91 2 
93 

92 C 

94 15 

91 50 8 

95 40 

92 45 



94 30 

93 30 

95 27 
84 55 
90 

95 

94 37 
90 40 

95 27 
95 15 
04 33 
95 30 
95 10 
90 30 



84 30 
89' 10 



84 30 
84 18 

84 18 

85 24 13 



Feet. 



307 

509 

"698 

1,160 
1,566 



690 
1,500 



C30 
666 



800 
"737 



928 
1,000' 
1,200' 



582 
'946 



607-' 
800 



790 

825 



1,300 

'p^o' 



900? 



900' 
950 
950 
570 



T.R. 

B. T. K 

B. T. R 

T.R. 

A. 

T.R. 

A. 



T. R. 
T. R. 
T. R. 

T. 

T. 

T. 
T. R. 
T. R. 

A. 
T. R. 
T.R. 
B. T. 
T. R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 

A. 

A. 

T. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T. R. 
T. R. 

A. 

T. 
B. T. R. 

T. 
T. R. 
T. R. 

T. R. 
B. T.R. 



T.R. 
T.R. 

R. 
T. R. 
T. R. 
T. R. 

T.R. 

B. T. R. 

B. T. R. 

A. 

T.R. 

T.Pv. 

T. 
T.R. 



B. T. R. 

T.R. 

A. 

A. 
A. 
A. 
A. 

A. 



72 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological stations and ohso'vcrs, ij-c, for the year 1869 — Coutinued. 



Station. 



LOUISIANA. 

Benton, Bossier Parish 

New Orleans, Orleans Parish . . . 
Shreveport, Caddo Parish 

MAINE. 

Houlton, Aroostook Co 

Gardiner, Kennebec Co 

Cornish, York Co 

Li.sbon, Androscoggin Co 

Standish, Cumberland Co 

Steuben, Washington Co 

Bumford Point, Oxford Co 

Williamsburg, Piscataquis Co. 

Oxford, Oxford Co 

Cornish, York Co 

West Waterville, Kennebec Co 

MARYLAND. 

Annapolis, Anno Arundel Co. . 

Frederick, Frederick Co 

Emmitt.sburg, Frederick Co. . . 

Woodlawn, Cecil (3o 

Emmittsburg, Frederick Co. . . 
St. Mary's City, St. Mary's Co . 

MASSACHUSETTS. 

Richmond, Berk.shire Co 

West Newton, Middlesex Co . . 

Newbury, Essex Co 

Lunenburg, Worcester Co 

Hinsdale, Berkshire Co 

Worcester, Worcester Co 

Lawrence, Essex Co 

Williamstown, Berkshire Co . . 

Topsti.'ld, Essex Co 

Meuiloii, Worcester Co 

North Billerica, Middlesex Co. 

Kingston, Plymouth Co 

Georgetown.Essex Co 

Cambridge, Middlesex Co 

New Bedford, Bristol Co 

Amherst, Hampshire Co 

Milton, Norfolk Co 



Old Mission, Grand Traverse Co 

Litchfield, Litchfield Co 

Otsego, Allegan Co 

Ontonagon, Ontonagon Co 

Pennsylvania Mine, Kewenaw 
Co. 

Grand Bapids, Kent Co 

Lansing, Ingham Co 

Oshtemo, Kalamazoo Co 

Pleasanton, Manistee Co 

Muskegon, Muskegon Co 

Sugar Island, Alpena Co 

Coidwater, Branch Co 

Homestead, Benzie Co 

Holland, Ottawa Co 

North Port, Leelanaw Co 

Monroe, Monroe Co 

Central Mine, Keweenaw Co. . . 



Name of observer. 



MKSESOTA. 



Afton, Washington Co 

Sauk Centre, Stearns Co. . . 
Minneapolis, Hennepin Co. 



Carter,J.H 

Foster, E. W 

Leavenworth, F. P . 



Fernald, C. H 

Gardiner, E. H 

Guptill, G. W 

Moore, Asa P 

Moulton, -John P . . 

Parker, J. I> 

Pettingill, W 

Pitman, Edwin 

Smith, Howard D. 

West, Silas 

Wilbur, B. F 



Goodman, WiUiam E 

Hanshew, John K 

Jourdan, Prof. C. H 

McCormick, James - - 

Smith, Eli 

Stephenson, llev. J 

Bacon, William 

Bixbv, John H 

Caldwell, John H 

Cunningham, George A 

Dewhurst, llev. E 

Draper, Joseph, M. D . . 

Fallon, John , 

Hopkins, Prof. A 

Merriam, Sidney A 

MetcalfJ.G 

Nason, Eev. Elias , 

Newcomb, Guilford S - . 
Nelson, S. Augustus, . . . 
Perry, Eev. J. B., and 
Mrs. 

Eodman, Samuel 

Snell, Prof. E. S 

Teele, Eev. A. K 



Averv. C. P 

Bullard, E 

Chase, Dr. Milton. . 
Ellis, Dr. Edwin . . . 
Griflith, EichardH. 



Holmes, Dr. E. S 

Kedzie, Prof. E. C 

Mapes, H. H 

Millard, Joseph D 

Pattison, H. A 

Paxton, J. W 

Soutliworth, N. L 

Steele, George E 

Streng, L. H. 

Smith, Eev. George N. . 
Whelpley, Miss Helen I 
Whittlesey, S. H 



46 7 
44 53 
43 40 
44 

43 45 

44 31 21 

44 30 

45 21 
44 8 

43 33 

44 30 



38 58 

39 24 
39 40 
39 38 

39 43 15 
38 10 



42 23 
42 21 
42 45 

42 35 

43 27 
42 16 17 
42 42 13 
42 42 37 
42 38 

42 6 23. 23 
42 35 9 
42 

42 42 
42 20 

41 39 

42 22 17 

42 14 37. 30 



44 65 

42 45 



= o 



Feet. 



44 25 
45"2'i2' 



Babcock. Dr., & Mrs.B.F 

Bloomtield, Smith 

Cheney, William 



44 35 
42 42 

45 8 
41 58 

47 



' Above Concord Eiver. 



44 50 

45 53 55 
44 48 

t Estimated 



07 49 24 
09 45 50 
70 44 
70 4 
70 30 
07 57 34 
70 40 
C9 71 
70 33 
70 50 
09 46 



70 29 
77 26 30 

77 20 

76 4 

77 26 45 
70 30 



3 20 

1 17 

55 

1 43 
'3 7 

1 48 13 

1 10 13 

-3 12 42 

57 

1 33 35. 97 
16 30 

45 
1 

1 11 

56 

2 31 30 

1 6 2.30 



85 30 
84 46 10 



470 



800 
130 
280 
50? 
600 



784 



85 40 



86 10 
83"5'46' 



86 30 
86 

85 41 
83 23 

87 54 



498 
45 



1,000 



528 
143 
066 



90 
207 
115 



640 
1,040 



620 



780 



750 
574 



93 

95 22 
93 10 



592 

590 

1,177 



950 
l,225t 

I 856 



T. 

B. T. 

E. 



T.E. 

A. 
T.E. 
T.E. 
T.E. 
T.E. 
T.E. 
T.E. 
T.E. 
B. T. E, 
T. E. 



A. 
B. T. E, 

A. 
B. T. E, 

T. 
T.E. 



T.E. 

T. E. 

T. 

B. T. E. 

B. T. E. 

A. 

A. 

B. T. E. 

A. 

B. T. E. 

B. T. 

T. E. 

T. E. 

T. 

A. 

A. 

B. T. E. 



T.E. 
B. T. E, 

T. 

T. 
B. T. E, 

T. 

A. 

N. 

T.E. 

B. T. E 

B. T. E 

T.E. 

T. 

T.E. 

T.E. 

T.E. 

T.E. 



T.E. 

T.E. 

A. 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 73 

List of meteorological stations a)id ohservcrs, i^-c.,for the year 1869 — Continued. 



Station. 



MixxESOTA — Continued. 

St. Cloud, Stearns Co 

Kocliester. Olmsted Co 

ila<lelia. "Watonwa Co 

Saint Paul. Kamsey Co 

White Earth Iteservat'n, Becker 
Co. 

New Ulm, Brown Co 

Beaver Bay, Lake Co 

Sibley. Sibley Co 

Kouiska, McLeod Co 

SIISSISSIPPI. 

Clarion. Lauderdale Co 

( 'oluuilms. Lownde.s Co 

Near Brookhaven, Lawrence Co 

Xatchez, Adams Co 

Grenada, Yalabusha Co 

Brookhaven, Lawrence Co 

Near Paulding, -Jasper Co 

JIISSOUKI. 

St. Joseph, Buchanan Co 

Harrisonville, Ca.ss Co 

Jefferson City, Cole Co 

Allentown, St. Louis Co 

Oregon, Holt Co 

East Prairie. Mississippi Co . . . 

Hermitage, Hickory Co 

AVarrensburg, Johnson Co 

Bolivar, Polk 

Near Bolla. Phelps 

Hematite, Jeflenson Co 

St. Louis, St. Louis Co 

KeytesviUe, Chariton Co 

MOXTAXA. 

Benton City. Chouteau Co 

Deer Lodge City, Deer Lodge Co 

XEBUASK.4.. 

Richland. "Wa.shington Co 

Dakota City, Dakota Co 

Near Bellevue, Sarpy Co 

Decatur. Burt Co 

Gleudale, Cass Co 

Fontanelle. Washington Co 

Blackbird Hills, Burt Co 

I'eru, Nemaha Co 

Nebraska City, Otoe Co 

De Soto, Washington Co 

Nebraska City, Otoe Co 

NEW IIAJIPSHIRE. 

Tnmworth. Carroll Co 

Stratford, Coos Co 

Dunbarton. Merrimack Co 

South Antrim. Hillshoro' Co . . . 

Whitefield, Coos Co 

Shelburne, Coos Co 

North Barnstead, Belknap 

Concord, Merrimack 

NEW JERSEY. 

Chester Township, Burlington Co 
Haddontield, Camden Co 



Name of observer. 



Garrison. O. E 

I\[ilmine, Alfred 

i\[uriihy. W. W 

l'at<rs<in, llev. A. B 

Pyle,Dr.D 

Eoos, Charles 

Wieland, C 

Woodbury. C.W., & C. E 
Young, Thomas M 

Florer, T. W 

Lull, James S 

Keenan, T. J. K 

McCary, W 

Moore,' Albert 

Moore, Thomas B 

Kobinson, Kev. E. S; 



Bullard, Eev. H , 

Christian, John 

DeWegl. N 

Eendler, A 

Kancher, W 

Miller, A 

Moore, Dr. W 

Pollock, Kev. J. E 

Bace, J. A 

Buggies, Homer 

Smith, John iSI 

Stuntebeck, Kev. F. H.. 

and Rev. I. Straetmans. 

Veatch, Charles 



Clevenger, Dr. S. V. 
Stuart,"Granville . - . 



Bowen, John S 

Brown, H. H 

Caldwell. Mrs. E. E 

Case. Dr. G. C 

Child. Dr. A. L., and 
Miss J. E. 

Gibson, H 

Hamilton, Rev. W 

McKenzie, J. M 

Pettinger, J. M 

Seltz, Charles 

Zalauer, P 



Brewster. A 

Brown, B 

Colby, A 

Huriiu, Rev. William 

Kidder. L. D 

Odell, F 

Pitman, Charles H 

Wheeler, J. T 



Beans, Thomas J 

Boadle, J., and J. L. LiiJ- 
piucott. 

*■ Estimated. 



45 33 

44 

44 

44 54 4G 
47 50 

44 10 
47 1-2 

44 31 

45 10 



32 25 
35 30 
31 34 
31 34 

33 45 

31 37 

32 10 



39 45 



38 20 
3S 29 

39 58 40 
3G 55 

37 56 

38 45 
37 30 

37 38 

38 11 

33 37 28 



41 22 

40 30 

41 8 
42 

40 55 



42 10 
40 

40 42 

41 50 
40 42 



43 48 

44 40 
43 C 



44 20 
44 23 
43 38 
43 12 



39 59 



94 G 
92 20 
94 30 
94 4 

95 

94 20 
90 19 
94 25 
94 20 



88 5 

88 29 

90 40 

91 24 
90 

90 15 

89 10 



92 

90 45 
95 10 



93 10 
93 40 
93 20 
91 33 
90 37 
90 15 



90 12 
90 30 
95 40 
95 30* 
90 05 



90 

95 45 
95 45 
90 
95 45 



n 18 
71 7 
n 35 



n 15 

71 

71 27 

71 29 



821 
057 



83 
227 



430 
215 



0.10 

482 

1,100 



COO 
1,000 



475 
470 



4,240 



1,010 



1, 000 

1, 225 

975 

1, 225 



1,000 
730 






T.R. 

R. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 

T.R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 
T.R. 



T.R. 
T.R. 
T.R. 
B. T. R. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
A. 



T. R. 
T.R. 
B. T. 

A. 

A. 
T.R. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 

A. 

B. T. R. 



T.R. 
T.R. 



T. 

T. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T. K. 

T.R. 
T. li. 

T. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T.R. 



T.R. 
T. R. 
T. R. 

N. 
T.R. 
B. T. 
T. R. 

T. 



T. R. 
A. 



74 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological stations and observers, cj'-c, for the year 1869 — Continued. 



Station. 



Kame of observer. 



New Jersey— Continued. 

Paterson, Pa.ssaic Co 

Trenton, Mercer Co 

Newlicltl, Gloucester Co 

Reartingtoii, Hunterdon Co 

Mecbauicsville, Hunterdon Co . . 

New Brunswick, Middlesex Co. . 

Vineland, Cumberland Co 

New Gerniantown, IluutrrdonCo 

Eio Grande, Cape May Co 

Newton, Sussex Co 

Greenwich, Cumberland Co 

Dover, Morris Co 

Newark, Essex Co 

NEW YORK. 

ArdeniaPhilipstown, Putnam Co 

Milo, Yates Co 

vSouth Trenton, Oneida Co 

Palermo, Oswego Co 

Minaville, Montgomery Co 

Fort Edward, Washington Co. . . 

Nyack, Rockland 

Little Genesee, Allegany Co. .. 

Newburg, Orange Co 

Near Depanvillo, Jefferson Co . 

Hudson, Columbia Co 

Near Kingston, on the Hudson, 

Ulster Co 

Nichols. Tioga Co 

South Ilarttord, "Washington Co 

Buflald, Eric Co 

Newark \'alley, Tioga Co 

New York, New York Co 

Cooperstown, Otsego Co 

Elatbush, Kings Co 

Oswego, Oswego Co 

Rochester, Monroe Co 

Locust Grove, Lewis Co 

Earmin jrdale. Queens Co , 

Central Park, New York 

Throg^ Neck, "Westchester Co. 

New York, New York Co 

Ludlowville, Tompkins Co 

New York, New York Co 

North Voluey, Oswego Co 

SloansviUe, Schoharie Co 

Germantown, Columbia Co 

Gouverneur, St. Lawrence Co.. 

New York, New York Co , 

Brookhaven, Suffolk Co 



Cazenovia, Madison Co 

Oneida, Madison Co 

Waterljurg, Tompkins Co 

White Plains, Westchester Co.. 
N. Hammond. St. Lawrence Co 
HouseviUo, Lewis Co 



NORTH CAROLINA. 



Goldsboro, Wayne Co 

Near Statesville, Iredell Co . . . 

Asheville, Buncombe Co 

Kaleigh, Wake Co 

Asheville, Buncombe Co 

Oxford, Granville Co 

Attaway Hill, Stanly Co 

Chapel Hill, Orange Co 

Trinity College, Randolph Co. 
Mt. Olive, Wayne Co. 
Kenansville, Duplin Co 



Brooks, William 

Cook, Ephriam R 

Couch, E. D 

Fleming, John 

Fleming, John, and W. 
T. Herr. 

Ha.sbrouck, I. E 

Ingram, Dr. J 

Noll, A. B 

Palmer, Miss J. R 

Ryerson, Dr. Thomas . . 
Siieppard, Miss R. C . . . 

Shriver, Howard 

Whitehead, W. A 



Arden, Thomas B 

Baker, Gilbert D 

Barrows, Captain Storrs 

Bartlett, E. B 

Bussing, John W 

Cooley, Prof. James S. . . 

De la V erny, C 

Edwards, Daniel 

Gardiner, J. H 

Haas, H 

Hachenberg, Dr. G. P. . . 
Hendricks, D. B 



Howell, Robert 

Ingalsbe, G. M 

Ives, William 

Johnson, Rev. Samuel . . 

Joy, Prof. C. A 

Keese, G. Pomeroy 

Mack, EliT 

Malcolm, W. S 

Mathews, H. W 

Merriam, C. C 

Merritt, J. C 

Meteorological observ'y- 

Morris, Miss E 

Morris, Prof. O. W 

Murphy, C. P 

Naval Hospital 

Partrick, J. M 

Potter, G. W 

Roe, Rev. S. W 

Russell, C.H 

Rutgers Female College 
Smith, E. A., and 
daughters. 

Soule, Prof. William 

Spooner, Dr. S 

Trowbridge, D 

Willis, O.'R 

Wooster, C. A 

Yale, Walter D 



Adams, Prof. E. W 

AUi.son, Thomas P 

Aston, Edward J 

Brewer, Fisk P 

Hardy, Dr. J. F. E 

Hicks, William R 

Krom, F. J 

Patrick, Prof. D. S 

Pearsall, E. D ^ 

Sprunt, Rev. J. M 

'■ Estimated. 



40 55 
40 14 
39 30 



74 10 
74 40 30 
74 50 



40 30 



74 27 



42 40 
39 16 
41 2 45 

39 20 

40 54 
40 45 



40 20 22 

42 30 

43 10 
43 2fi 

42 54 

43 13 

41 4 35 

42 15 

41 30 53 

44 10 

42 14 

41 50 

42 

43 18 

42 50 



74 45 
74 42 

74 40 12 

75 25 
74 35 
74 10 



73 53 22 



74 56 

77 26 
74 15 
73 42 

73 59 58 

78 20 

74 1 
70 3 

73 40 

74 2 

76 32 
73 21 3 

78 56 



40 43 

42 50 

40 37 17 

43 23 
43 08 

43 32 30 
40 40 40 
40 45 58 
40 49 15 
40 50 25 
42 33 
40 41 30 



74 5 
74 54 

74 1 33 

76 30 

77 51 

75 24 
73 30 

73 57 58 
73 48 45 

73 56 30 

76 35 

74 1 



42 41 



74 31 



44 19 
40 42 

40 49 

42 55 

43 4 

42 30 

41 5 

44 30 

43 40 



35 20 
35 30 



75 29 

74 1 

72 36 

75 4G 
75 50 
77 15 

73 40 
75 41 
75 32 



77 51 
80 30 



35 47 


78 48 


35 30 


80 31 


36 23 


78 14 


35 25 


80 


36 45 


80 


35 45 


78 


34 53 


75 3 



Feet. 
CO' 
60 
180 



C59.5 
30 

6.52 
35 



180 
868 
835 
327 



124 

1,500 

96 

350 

"iso 



400 
600 



100 

1, 200' 

54 

250 

525 



102 

97 

431 

165 

600 

56 



13 

1,260 
500 
800* 
273 



2,250 
850* 



900 
100 
40* 



T.R. 

B. T. R, 

T. 

T. 

T. 

A. 

A. 

B. T. R. 

T.R. 

A. 

A. 

A. 
B. T. R, 



T.R. 
B. T. R. 

T.R. 

T.R. 

T.R. 
B. T. R. 

A. 
B. T. R. 
B. T. R. 

T. It. 
P. T. R. 

T. R. 

T. 

T.R. 

B. T. R. 

T.R. 

A. 

T.R. 

B. T. R. 

B. T. R. 

A. 
B. T, R. 
N. 
A. 
T. 
A. 
T. 
B. T. R. 

T. 

T.R. 

T. 

B. T. R. 

A. 

T.R. 

B. T. 
T.R. 

T. 

T. 

B. T. R. 

T.R. 



T.R. 
T.R. 

T. 
T.R. 
B.T. 
T.R. 
T.R. 

T. 

T.R. 

T.R. 

B. T. R. 



5 

3 

► 10 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



75 



List of meteorological stations and observers, iSc, for the year 1869 — Coutinucd. 



Station. 



!NoKTH Cakolixa— Continued. 



Guilford Mine, Guilford Co 
Ealoigli, "Wake Co 



OHIO. 

Kew Lisbon, ColuTnl)iana Co 

Amesville, Atliens Co 

North Fairtield, Huron Co 

Near Bowling Green, Wood Co . . 

Bethel, Clermont Co 

Steubcnville, Jetferson Co 

Little Mountain, Geauga Co 

"VVesterville, Franklin Co 

College Hill. Hamilton Co 

Cincinnati. Ilaiuilton Co 

Sprincrfield. Clark Co 

Smitlivilli\ Wayne Co 

Kelli- y-.s Island,' Erie Co 

Cleveland, Cuyahoga Co 

Edgerton, "\ViIliam.s Co 

IJipley, Huron Co 

Hillsboro, Highland Co 

Gilmore, Tuscarawa.s Co 

North Bass Island, Ottawa Co. . . 
Margaretta Township, Erie Co.. 

Jacksonburo;, Butler Co 

Cincinnati, Hamilton Co 

Gallipolis, Gallia Co 

Martin's Ferry, Belmont Co 

Kenton, Hardiu Co 

Gambler, Knox Co 

MilnersTille, Guernsey Co 

Toledo, Lucas Co 

Marion, Marion Co 

North Bend, Hamilton Co 

Mt. Auburn, HamUton Co 

Williamsport, Pickaway Co 

Urbana, Champaign Co 

Wooster, Wayne Co 

PEN'XSYLVAXIA. 

Avondell, Perrv Co 

Tioga, Tioga Co 

Silver Spring, Lancaster Co 

Phoenixville, Chester Co 

Carlisle, Cumberland Co 

Plymouth Meeting, Montgomery 
Co. 

Pocopson, Chester Co 

Dyberry, "Wayne Co 

Harrisburg, IJauphin Co 

Near Pennsville, Clearfield Co. . . 

Blooming Grove, Pike Co '. 

Fallsington, Bucks Co 

Harrisburg, Dauphin Co 

Mount Joy, Lancaster Co 

Brownsville, Fayette Co 

Lewisburg, Union Co 

Philadelphia, Philadelphia Co. . . 

Whitehall, Lehigh Co 

Newcastle, Lawrence Co 

Westchester, Chester Co 

Germantown, Philadelphia Co. . . 

Williamsport, Lycoming Co 

Philadelphia, Philadelphia Co.. . 

Johnstown, Cambria Co 

Heading, Berks Co 

Abington, Luzerne Co 

Canonsburg, Washington Co 

Mooreland, Montgomery Co 

Ephrata, Lancaster Co 

* Estimate. 



Name of observer. 



Wrav, Alexander 3(5 

Taylor, Miss M. H 35 47 



Benner, J. F 

Brawley. E. H 

Burras, O 

Clarke, John 

Crane, G. W 

Doyle, Joseph B 

Feiriss, E. J 

Hay^vood, Prof. J 

Hainmitt, John W 

Harper, G. W 

Herron, Eev. J. H 

Hoover, William 

Huntingdon, George C . . 

Hyde, Gustavus A 

Kiiight, A. B 

Marsh, Mrs. M. M 

Mathews, J. McD 

Moore, Sam'l M 

Morton, Geo. 11., M. D . . 

Neill, Thomas 

Ow.sley, Dr. J. B 

Phillips, R. C 

Eodgers, A. P 

Shreve, Miss M. B 

Smith, Dr. C. H 

Stillwell, C. A., and 

others. 

Thompson. Eev. D 

Trembley, Dr. J. B 

True, Dr. H. A 

Warder, K. B 

White, Miss A. J., and 

others. 

Wilkinson, J. E 

ATilliams, Prof. M. G. . . 
Winger. M 



40 45 
39 

41 8 
41 22 
39 

40 45 

41 3tf 
40 4 
39 19 
39 G 

39 53 25 

40 r>2 

41 35 44 
41 .30 

41 32 
41 

39 13 

40 18 

41 3G 
41 27 
39 30 



39 
40 10 



Baker, William E. 

Bentley, E. T 

Bruckiiart, H. G. . 

Coflman, I. Z 

Cook, W. H 

Cor.son, M. H 



Darlington, F 

Day, Tlieodoro 

Egif, Dr. William H.... 

Fcnton, Elisha 

Grathwohl, J 

Hance, Ebenezer 

Heiseley, Dr. J 

Hotter, Dr. J. E. and TJ. E, 

Hubbs, Dr. J. Allen 

James, Professor C. S. . . 
Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A. . 

Kohler, E 

McConnell, E. M 

Martin, Dr. George 

Meehan, Thomas. .' 

Moyer, H. C 

Naval Hospital 

Pcelor, David 

Baser. John Heyl 

Sissiin, Eodman 

Smith. Kiv. Dr. William 

Spencir, Miss Anna 

Spera, "\Villiam H 

t Above Ohio Eiver. 



40 10 

41 3S 
40 35 
39 8 



80 

78 46 



80 45 
82 

82 40 

83 40 
84 

80 47 

81 IG 
83 

84 14 45 
84 29 

83 49 15 

81 51 

82 42 32 
SO 40 

84 45 
82 30 



81 18 

82 41 53 
82 40 

84 17 



82 
80 48 



81 45 
83 30 

83 7 

84 35 



39 37 4 

40 G 

40 46 47 



40 20 40 
42 

40 51 
40 10 



40 C 



39 54 
41 3G 

40 10 
41 

41 30 

42 12 
40 IG 
40 8 
40 

40 56 

39 57 30 

40 44 
40 

39 57 31. 3 



41 19 

39 50 



40 20 

41 30 

40 IG 41 

40 

40 12 



83 7 30 
83 43 
81 55 37 



7G 45 
75 26 



75 37 

75 19 

76 15 
78 40 
75 

74 48 
76 15 
7G 32 
80 

76 58 

75 11 15 
75-28 

80 12 
75 36 3 



77 30 
75 10 



75 45 
80 10 

75 11 

76 15 



1^ 
a <u 

§.£: 



660 
700' 
555 



Feet. 

990 N. 

37 T. E 



B. T. E. 

E. 

A. 

T. E. 

T.E. 

B. T. E. 

A. 

A. 

T.E. 

B. T. E, 

T.E. 

T.E. 

A. 

B. T. E 

T.E. 

A. 

A. 
T.E. 
T.E. 

A. 
T.E. 
B. T. E, 
T. E. 
T.E. 
T.E. 

A. 



800 
305 1 



934 

587 



831 
965 



1,180 

22* 



[1, 152 

i "eoo" 



I 543i 
1, OCO 



1,077 

800 

1,000 



,015 

872 



515 
1,000 



218 
1,400 



30 



60 
450* 



533 

36 

1,200 



850 
250 



T.E. 

B. T.E 

T.E. 

T.E. 

A. 

T.E. 

B. T E 

T E. 



T E. 
T.E. 

T. 

T.E. 

B. T. E. 

A. 

T.E. 
T.E. 

A. 

B. T. E. 

T.E. 

B. T. E. 

A. 
B.T. 

T. 

A. 

A. 

T. 

T. 

A. 

T. 

B. T. 

B. T. E. 

A. 

T.E. 

T.E. 

B. T. E. 

A. 
T.E. 



I Above Lake Erie. 



76 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



List of meteorological stations and observers, cj-c, for the year 1889. — Contiuued. 



Station. 



Pe.xxsylvaxia— Continued. 

Salom, Wayne Co 

Xi_ar (Oinullsville, Fayette Co.. 

Ecu vcr, Leaver Co 

Franklin, Venango Co 

GermantoTm, Philadelphia Co . 
Foiiutaiu Dale, Adams Co 

RHODE ISLAND. 

Newport, Xe^vport Co 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Aiken, Barnwell Co 

Evergreen, Anderson Co 

Camden, Kershaw Co 

Aiken, Barnwell Co 

Wilkinsville, Union Co 

Fort Hill, York Co 

TENNESSEE. 

Lookout ilountain Educational 
Institute, Hamilton Co. 

Austin, AVilson Co 

Greenville, Green Co 

Memphis, Shelby Co 

Trenton, Gibson Co 

Elizabi-thton, Carter Co 

Kuiixvillc, Knox Co 

Clarksville, Montgomery Co 



Xame of observer. 



Houston, Harris Co 

Galveston, Galveston Co 

Cedar Grove Plantation, Brazo- 
ria Co. 

Palestine, Anderson Co 

Near Dallas, Dallas Co 

Bellona, Falls Co 

Near Gilmer, Upshur Co 

Lavaca, Calhoun Co 

"Waco, McLennan Co 

Austin, Travis Co 

Mine Creek, Burleson Co 

Yorktown, Do Witt Co 

Lockhart, Caldwell Co 



Stocker, J. D 

Taylor, John 

Taylor, Eev. R. T 

Tolman, Kev. M. A 

Turner, Ernest, C. E... 
Walker, S.C 

Crandall, W. H 



Cornish, Eev. John H 

Earle, E. S 

Macrae, Colin 

Percival, Dr. W. F... 

Petty, Charles 

Springs, R. A., jr 



Bancroft, Eev. C.F. P. 



Calhoun, P. B 

Doak, S. S. & W. S . - 

Goldsmith, E 

Grigsby, William T. 

Lewis, Charles H 

Payne. Prof. J. K. . . . 
Stewart, William M. 



o 



41 30 
40 

40 43 

41 24 

3944' 



41 28 22 



33 32 

34 30 
34 17 

33 32 

34 50 



Baxter, Miss E — 
Beazley, Dr. A. H 
Bostwick, J. B — 



I 36 5 

35 8 
36 

36 25 
36 

30 29 



29 50 
29 18 
29 10 



Brooks. N. S 31 40 

Coit, John T 32 53 

Combs, Burke 



Coalville, .Summit Co 

Wanship, Summit Co 

Harrisburg, Washington Co 

St. George, Washington Co 

Salt Lake City, Salt Lake Co 

VERMONT. 



Panton, Addison Co 

Biantlnii, Rutland Co 

Niwpdi t, ( )rleans Co 

Lunenburg, Essex Co 

Woodstock, Windsor Co . 

Barnet, Caledonia Co 

Hartford, Windsor Co 

Randolph, Orange Co 

Middlebury, Addison Co . 
Craftsbury, Orleans Co. . . 

Ca8tletou,"Rutland Co 

Charlotte, Chittenden Co. 



Glaser, J. M. 

Heaton, L. D 

Merrill, Dr. E 

Van Kostrand, J 

Wade, F. S 

White, Dr. A.C 

Woodruff, L 



32 46 
28 30 1 
31 35 
30 29 
30 25 
29 



Bullock, Thomas. 
Bullock, Thomas. 

Lewis, James 

Pearce, H 

Phelps, W.W.... 



Barto, D. C. & M. E 

Buckland, H 

Currier, J. M 

Cutting, H. A 

Doten, H., & L. A. MiUer 

Eaton, Dr. B. F 

Eaton, Dr. B.F 

Paine, C.S... 

Sheldon, H. A 

Wild, Rev. E.P 

Williams, Rev. R. G 

Wing, Miss M. E 



40 42 



37 11 


40 45 


44 


43 45 


44 55 


44 28 


43 36 


44 18 


43 44 


43 55 


43 59 


44 40 



78 30 

79 36 

80 23 
79 51 

77" is' 



71 21 14 



81 34 

82 50 

80 33 

81 34 
81 30 

81 



81 5 



82 51 
90 
89 

82 15 
84 
87 13 



95 30 

96 6 
95 56 

95 35 

96 45 



94 51 
96 40 1 

96 50 

97 46 
97 26 
97 37 



114 
111 26 



74 
73 
72 20 

71 41 

72 35 
72 5 
72 20 

72 36 

73 10 
72 30 



2, 200 



Feet. 



240 
565 

600- 



1,500 
990 
481 



950 
17 



650 
COO 



4C0 
750 

1,124 
698 
952 
331 
650 
398 

1,100 



T.R. 

T.R. 

T. R. 

T.R. 
B. T. R. 
P. T. E. 



T.R. 



B. T. E. 

E. 

T.R. 

P. T. R. 

T.R. 

T. 



B. T. 

T.R. 
T.R. 

A. 
T. R. 
T. R. 

A. 

A. 



T. 

A. 

B. T. E. 

T.E. 

E. 

R. 
T. R. 
T. It. 
T.R. 
P. T. E. 
T.R. 
T. R. 
T. R. 



T. 
T. 
11- 
R. 
T. R, 



T.R. 

T. R. 

T.R. 
A. 

T.R. 
B. T. R. 

B. T. 

T.R. 
A. 

T.R. 
B. T. R. 

T.R. 



* Estimated. 



t Approximate. 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 77 

List of meteorological stations and observers, Sfc., for the year 1869 — Coutiuuctl. 



Station. 



Xamo of observer. 



Mulberry Hill, Isle of Wight Co. 

Wytheville, Wythe Co 

Moiuit Solon, Augusta Co 

Sraiinton, Augusta Co 

Cottage Home, Surrey Co 

Mechanicsvilli', Fauijuier Co 

Near Lyncliliurg, Bedford Co 

Prospect Hill, Xorthamptou Co. 

Korfulk, Xortolk Co 

ISTear Lexiugtou, Kockbridge Co. 

Hampton. Elizabeth Citj" Co 

Wytheville, Wythe Co 

Ashland, Hanover Co 

Suowville, Pula.ski Co 

I'owhatan Hill, King George Co. 

Near Piedmont, Fauquier Co 

ZS'ear Vienna, Fairfax Co 



M'ASHIXGTOX TEnKITOUV. 

Tatoosh Island Light-house, Clal- 
lam Co. • 
Walla-'\yalla, WaUa-"Walla Co. . 

W'E.ST vinGixi.v. 

Huttonsville, Randolph Co , 

llomuey, Hami>shire Co 

Ashland. Cabell Co 

White Day, Mongalia Co 

WISCONSIN. 

EmViarrass, Waupacca Co 

lioeky Eun, Columbia Co 

Aladison, Dane Co 

Holland, Sheboygan Co 

!N ew Lisbon Juneau Co , 

Appleton, Outagamie Co 

Milwaukee, Milwaukee Co 

Manitowoc, Manitowoc Co 

Waupacca, Waupacca Co 

Plymouth, Slieboygan Co 

Edurt-ton, Itdck Co' , 

Bay ticld, Baylield Co 

Baraboo, Sauk Co 

Bloomficld, Kenosha Co 



Binford, R 

Brown, Rev. J. A 

Clarke,Dr.J.T.,& Miss B. 

Covell,J. C 

Jones, Benjamin W 

ilurtiu, W'illi.am A 

ML-riwtther, Charles I. . . 

Moore, C. li 

Js'aval Hospital 

Rufluer, W. H 

Sherman, J. M 

Shriver, Howard 

Smith, Prof. R. M 

Stalnaker, J. W 

Tayloe, Edw. T 

Williams, Franklin 

Williams, U. C, & Miss 
L. R. Thrift. 



Sampson, Alexander M. 
Simmons. A. H 



Hill, Jacob I 

McDowell, W. H. 

Eoffe, C. L 

Sharp, Dr. W. H. 



36 50 

36 55 
38 17 
3S 8 

37 10 

38 50 
37 18 
37 2-2 
3G 25 
37 4() 
37 5 
30 51 

37 35 23 
37 



38 50 
38 53 



46 5 



Breed, E. E 

Curtiss, W. W 

Daniells, Prof. W. W 

Do Lycer, John 

Dunsan, J. L 

Foyt^ Plof. J. C 

Lapham, Dr. I. A 

Liipps, Jacob 

Mead,H. C 

Moeller, G 

Shintz, H.J 

Tate, Andrew 

Waite, M. C I 43 

Whiting, W. H 



76 50 

81 4 
79 3 

75 46 

76 46 
78 

79 19 

75 46 

76 25 
79 22 

76 20 
81 3 

77 29 59 
80 



79 45 



83 37 30 
89 19 
S9 24 

87 54 
90 

88 35 

87 56 10 

87 45 

89 11 

88 7 
89 



89 45 1 



Feet. 

100 

2,400 



1,261 



800^ 
40' 



1,000 



221 

1, 800> 

60 

900- 

400 



030 



1,000 



600 



1,063 
670 



800 
604 
658 
900 



1,700 



T.R. 

B, T. R. 

T.R. 

A. 

T. 

T.R. 

T. 

B. T. R. 

B. T. R. 

T.R. 

T. E. 

A. 

B. T. R. 

T.R. 

T.R. 

T. R. 

T. R. 



T.R. 
T.R. 



R. 

T. 

T.R. 

T. 



T.R. 
T.R. 

A. 

T. 

T. 
B. T. 

A. 
B. T. E 

T. 

B. T. R 

T.R. 

T. 
T.R. 
T. E 



"Estimated. 

DE.VTHS OF OBSEK\'ERS. 



Dr. J. Heisely. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, September 18, 1869. 
Eev. Daniel Hunt, Pomfret, Connecticut, July 2, 1869. 
Eev. S. R. Williams, Lexington, Kentucky, J'uly — , 13C9. 



78 



METEORLOGICAL EEGISTERS. 



Colleges and other institutions from which meteorological registers were re- 
ceived during the year 1869, included in the i)receding list. 



State. 



Institutions. 



Location. 



Nova Scotia 

Alabojaa 

Arkansas 

California 

Connecticut . . . 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana '- -. 

Iowa 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Maryland 

Massachusetts . . 

Michigan .. 

Missouri 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 



North Carolina. 



Oliio. 



Permsylvauia 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Vermont 

Virginia 

Wisconsin 



Acadia College 

Greene Springs School 

Normal School 

Pacific Methodist College 

Collegiate Institute 

Wesleyan University 

Mercer University 

Lombard University 

Northwestern University 

City Hospital 

Indiana State University 

Cornell College 

Griswold College 

loAva State University 

Agricultural College 

State University 

Sayre Institute 

Mount St. Mary's College 

Amherst College 

State Lunatic Hospital 

Williams College - 

State Agrictiltural College 

St. Louis University - 

St. Paul's School. . .' 

Eutger's C'ollege 

Columbia College 

Erasmus Hall Academy 

Institute for Deaf and Dumb 

Fort Edward Collegiate Institute 

Oneida Conference Seminary 

Observatory, Central Park 

Eockland Female Institute 

Rutgers Female College 

Tiinity College : 

Goldsboro Female College 

University of North Carolina 

Webster Institute 

Kenyon College 

Mount Auburn Young Ladies' Institute. 

Otterbein University 

Urbana University 

Woodward High School 

Beaver Seminary 

Jefferson College 

Lehigh University 

Lewisburg University 

East Tennessee University 

Lookout Mountain Educational Inst. . . 

Stewart College 

Tusculum College 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb 

Normal School - . . 

Woodstock Academy Natural Sciences. 
Institute for Deaf, Dumb, and Blind. 

Randolph Macon College 

Lawrence University 

State University 



Wolfville. 

Havana. 

Helena. 

Vacaville. 

Waterbury. 

Middletown. 

Penlield. 

Galesburg. ' 

Evanston. 

Indianapolis. 

Bloomington. 

!Mount Vernon 

Davenport. 

Iowa City. 

Manhattan. 

Lawrence. 

Lexington. 

Emmittsburg. 

Amherst. 

Worcester. 

Williamstown. 

Lansing. 

St. Louis. 

Concord. 

New Brunswick. 

New York. 

Flatbush. 

New York. 

Fort Edward. 

Cazenovia. 

New York. 

Nyack. 

New York. 

Randolph County. 

Goldsboro. 

Chapel Hill. 

Kenansville. 

Gambler. 

Mount Auburn. 

Westerville. 

Urbana. 

Cincinnati. 

Beaver. 

Cannonsburg. 

Bethlehem. 

Lewisburg. 

Knoxville. 

Hamilton County. 

Clarksvillc. 

Greenville. 

Austin. 

Castleton. 

Woodstock. 

Staunton. 

Ashland. 

Appleton. 

Madison. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 79 

SrETEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE 
REGULAR OBSERVATIONS DURING THE YEAR 18G9. 

Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Pctersbourg. — Memoires. YII 
Series, tome xii, No. 4. Untersuchuugeu iiber Ooiistitutiou tier At- 
mosphiire unci die Stralileubrecliuug iu derselbeu. (2*° Abhandlung.) 
Von Dr. H. Gylden, 18G8. 4o 57 pp. 

Academie Eoyale de Bclgique. — Observations des plienonienes periodi- 
ques pendant les amiees 1805 et 18GG. (Extrait du tome xxxvii des 
Memoires.) 4° 74 pp. et GO pp. 

Aclxermann, Professor. — Newspapers containing articles on tempera- 
ture and rainfall of Port au Prince, Ilayti. 

Australian Hortieuli ural and Af/riculturahSociety. — Horticultural Maga- 
zine and Gardeners' and Amateurs' Chronicle. Containing meteorologi- 
cal observations at Yarella, Concord, New South Wales, by A. Stephen. 

Baird, Professor S. F. — Newspapers giving accounts of the great 
storms in New England iu September and October, 18G9. 

Bartletf, E.B. — licviewof the weather at Palermo, New York, during 
the year 18G8. (Newspaper slip.) 

Record of periodical phenomena, arrival of birds, «&:c., at Palermo, 

New York, for nineteen years, from 1851 to ISGO, inclusive. 

Bath and North of Bnffland Agricultural Journal. — On the temperature 
of the sea and its influence on the climate and agriculture of the British 
Isles. By Nicholas Whitley, P. M. S. (Reprinted by permission.) 8°. 
3G pp. London, 18G9. 

Boardman, G. A. — Thermometrical observations made on the St. John 
River, Plorida, between Jacksonville and Enteri^rise, during the months 
of January, February, March, and xipril, 1809. 

Bruhns, Br. C. — Resultate aus den meteorologischen Beobachtungen 
angestellt an den fiinfundzwanzig Koniglichen Siichsischen Stationeu 
im Jahre 1807. 4°. 71 pp. Leipzig, 1869. 

C. K. Towarzystwa JSfanl'ow, KraTcow. — Materyaly do klimatografii 
galicyi, zebrani jirzez sekcyi meteorologiczna komisyi jirzyograficznej C. 
K. Towarzystwa Nankow. Rok, 18G7. 8°. 209 pp. Rok, 1808. Sq. 253 
pp. 

Campbell, Prof. — Barometrical reports for the months of March, April 
and May, 1869, at Washington College, Virginia. 

CUngman, T. L. — Notes on the climate of Western North Carolina. 
(Printed slip.) 

Coe, Charles C. — Meteorological register kept at Hood's River, Oregon, 
during the years 1805-'GG- 07 and 1808. 

Collins, Colonel. — Hourly observations of the thermometer from .4 p. m., 
January 4, 1804, to 4 \). m. January 7, 1804, at Fort Laramie, Dakota 
Territory. 

Corhett, Hon. H. W. — Weather record for eleven years, at Portland, 
Oregon, from 1858 to 1808, inclusive ; kept by Mr. Thomas Frazer. 
(Newspaper slip.) 

Crosier, Br. E. S. — Meteorological registers for November and Decem- 
ber, 1805, at New Albany, Indiana. 

Ball, W. H. — Translation of meteorological register kept at St. 
^lichaels, Ikagmut, and Nulato, Russian America, during the years 1842 
and 1843. 

Banbree, M. A. — Experiences synthetiques relatives aux meteorites. 
Paris, 1808. 8°. QS pp. 

Bavenport Female College. — Meteorological report from the Daven- 



80 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

port Female College, Lenoir, IS'orth Carolina, for the months of May, 
June, July, August and September, 1869. 

Dove, H. W. — Ueber den Sturm vom 17 November 1866, von H. W. 
Dove, aus dem Abhandlungen der Koniglichen Akademie der Wisseu- 
schaften zu Berlin, 1867, (mit 2 Tafelu.) Berlin, 1868. 4°. 49 pp. 

Uldridge, W. V. — Abstract of meteorological observations at Gol- 
conda. Pope County, Illinois, during the year 1869. 

Ullis, Jacob M. — Eeview of the weather at Philadelphia for each 
mouth of the year 1869. (Xewspaper slips.) 

French, J. B., agent Winnijnsseogce Cotton and Woolen Manvfcicturing 
Comimny. — Eegister of rainfall at Laconia and Lake Village, New Hamp- 
shire, during the year 1869. 

Galle, Professor Br. J. G. — TJeber die Bahu des am 30 January 1868, 
beobacliteten und bei Pultulsk im Kouigreiche Polen als Steinregeu 
uiedergefallenen Meteors durch die Atmosphiire von Professor Dr. J. G. 
Galle, Director der Sternwarte zu Breslau, 8°. 43 pp. 

Goldericl'e, 0. J. — Pamphlets and newspaper slips relating to the 
climate, &c., of Colorado Territory. 

Goulier, C. M. — Etudes geometriques sur Ics etoiles filantes. IMetz, 
1868. 8°. pp. 154. (Extrait des Memoires de PAcademie Imperiale de 
Metz, annee 1866 et 1867. 

Grayson, A. J. — Meteorological observations, and remarks upon the 
climate of Mazatlan, Mexico. 

Haidinger, W. Ritter von. — Elektrische Meteore am 20ten October, 1868, 
in Wien beobachtet. Bericht von W. Bitter von Haidinger, wirk- 
lichem Mitgliede der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wisseuschaften. 
(Mit 1 Tafel.) 8°. 12 pp. 

Der Meteorsteiufall am 22 Mai 1868, bei Sclavetic. Zweiter Bericht 
von W. Bitter von Haidiuger, Mitgliede der K Akademie der Wisseu- 
schaften, (mit 1 Tafel und 5 Holzschuitten.) 8°. 12 pp. 

Der Meteorsteiufall von Sclavetic in Croatien, am 22 Mai 1868, 
Vorhluflger Bericht von ^Y. Ritter von Haidiuger, wirklichem Mitgliede 
der K Akadmie der Wisseuschaften. 8^. 7 pp. 

Huntingdon, G. C. — Climatalogy of Kelly's Island, Ohio. (Newspaper 
slip.) 

Eeport of proceedings of Lake Shore Grape Growers Association, 

containing address by George C. Huntiugdon on " Grape rot and the 
weather." (Newspaper slip.) 

Ingram, Dr. J. — Eecord of periodical phenomena at Vineland, New 
Jersey, during the year 1868. 

James, J. W. — Summary of meteorological observatious during the 
year 1869 at Eiley, McHenry County, Illinois. Also summary from 
1861 to 1868 inclusive, and for each month of 1869. 

Jones, Benjamin W. — Synopsis of meteorological observations made 
duriug the winter of 1868 and 1869 at Cottage Home, Surry County, 
Virginia. 

KaiseriicJie Academic der Wisscnchaften, Wien. — Die Temperatur-Ver- 
hilltnisse der Jahre 1848-'63, an den Statiouen des osterreichischen Be- 
obachtungsnetzes, durch filnftiigige Mittel dargestellt, von Dr. C. Jeli- 
nek. 40. 146 pp., 2 Tafelu. Wien, 1869. 

— Erster Bericht der stiindigen Commission fiir die Adria. 8^. 122 pp. 
Wien, 1869. 

Kongliga Svensica Yetensl;ax)s Academien, StocMolm. — Meteorologiska 
lakttagelser i Sverige. 1864, Sjette Bandet. Obi. 4°. 192 pp. 1865, 
Sjunde Bandet. Obi. 4^. 186 pp. 1866, Attonde Bandet, Obi. 4to. 
182 pp. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 81 

KaiserlicJi-KdmgliscJw Central AnstaltfUr Meteorologie unci Erclmagnet- 
ism. — Jalirbliclier von Dr, C. Jelinek. Xeiie Folge, iv Baud. Jalir- 
gau.u', 1SG7. 40. 227 pp. Wien, 18G9. 

Kdi.seHich-Konigliche Steymvarte, Vienyia. — Anleitung ziir Austellmig 
meteorologiscber Beobaclituugeu nnd SammluDg vou Hilfstafeln, niit 
besouderer Eiicksicbt aiif die meteorologiscbeu Statioueu iu Oester- 
reicli nnd Ungarn. Yon Dr. Carl Jelinek. 8^. 173 pp. 

— Norinalc fiinftagige Wiirmemittel flir 88 Stationen, bezogen anf 
den 2()-jiilirigen Zeitraniu 1848-07. Von Dr. Carl Jelinek. 8°. 4.3 pp. 

— Beobaclitungen an der K. K. Centralanstalt flir Meteorologie nnd 
Erdmagnetismns. 8^. 04 pp. 

Lapltam, Br. I. A. — Atmospheric tide at Milwaukee, deduced from 
hourly observations at the time of new moon iu October, November, 
and December 1808, and January and February 1800. 

— Dates of opening and closing of the Milwaukee Eiver from 1830 to 
1800, inclusive. 

Lull, James S. — Meteorological registers for 1800 to 1800, (portion of 
previous record interriipted by the war ;) also, a table of rainfall from the 
1st of May, 1853, until January 1, 1870. 

Lochr, Charles S., United Stat is consul. La Guayra, Ecuador. — Statis- 
tics from the United States consulate at La Guayra, South America, in- 
cluding particulars in reference to earthquakes, meteorology, &c. 

Mapes., H. H. — Manuscript reports of the weather at various points 
in Kahmiazoo and Allegan counties, Michigan, during each month of 
the year 1850. 

McAulay, John P. — Thermometrical record kept at the Louisiana 
State Seminary, Alexandria, Louisiana, during the months of Octol)er, 
November, and December 1808, and January, February and March 1800. 

McCall, C. — Monthly reports on the weather at Cathlamet, Waukia- 
kum County, Washington Territory. 

Mcrriam, C. C. — Manuscript meteorological report for January- and 
February 1800, at Leydeu, Lewis County, i^ew York. 

Mcrriam, C. X., Leyden, Xew Yorl: — Newspaper slips containing re- 
marks on the weather. Monthly. 

Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. — Published 
meteorological report for April 1800, 

Meteorological Office, London. — Cliarts of the surface temperature of 
the South Atlantic Ocean in each month of the year. Folio. 27 pp., 12 
charts. London, 1800. 

— Ileport on the meteorology of the Korth Atlantic, between the paral- 
lels of 40° and 50°, as illustrated by eight diagrams of observations taken 
on board of the mail steamers running to and from xVmerica, with re- 
marks on the difference of the winds, &c. By Captain H. Toynbee, 
F. K. A. S. 80. 8 charts. London, 1800. 

— Report of the meteorological committee of the Royal Society for the 
year ending December 31, 1800. 8°. 72 pp. London, 1800. 

Meteorological Society, London. — Proceedings issued monthly. 8vo. 

— Meteorology of England for the quarter ending September 30, 1808. 
By James Glaisher, president Meteorological Society. 

Montrose Natural History and Antiquarian Society, Montrose, Scot- 
land. — Report of the directors for 1808, containing a meteorological 
register for the year. 

Moss, G. B. — Summary of meteorological observations at Belvidere, 
Illinois, during the year 1800. 

Miihry, Br. Adolf. — Untersuchungen liber die Theorie nnd das allge- 
meine geographische System der Wiude. 8°. 254 pp. Gottiugen, 1809. 
Gs 



82 METEOEOLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Nattiraliste Canadien. — Containing meteorological observations at Port 
Neuf and Montreal. 

NaturforscJiende Gesellschaft, Basel. — ^Verhandlungen der Naturfor- 
scbende\i Gesellschaft in Basel, 18G9. Containing: Bericht iiber einige 
Blitzschlagc. Yon Ed. Hagenbacli. 

N aturforscher Verein su, Riga. — Correspondenzblatt, 10*'^'" Jahrgang, 
18G0. Containing meteorological observations at Biga, from September 
18G7 to Jnly 18G8, (new style,) inclusive. 

XaturwissenscJiaftUclw Gesellschaft., St. Gallen. — Bericlit iiber die 
TbJitigkeit der St. Gallesclien Naturwissensclialtlliclien Gesellschaft 
■sviibrend des Vereiusjalires, 18G7-'G8. Contnining: Einige Erfabrim- 
gen iiber klimatische Karen und Knrorte. Von Dr. W. Steinliii. 

Nelson^ S. Avgustus, Georgetown, Massaclmsetts. — Newspaper accounts 
of the great storms of September and October, in New England. 

Ohservatoire Imperial de Paris. — Atlas des monvements generaux de 
I'atmospehre. Annee 18(55 ; Janvier, Eevrier, Mars. Obi. folio. 90 
charts. Atlas meteorologique, 18(57. 

Ohservatoire Royal de Bruxelles. — Annales meteorologiques. Brux- 
elles, 18G8. 4°. 101 pp. 

Osservatorio del Real Collegio Carlo Alberto in Moncolieri. — Bulletino 
meteorologico del Osservatorio del Real Colligea Carlo Alberto in IMon- 
calieri, con corrispondenza del Osservatorio del Seminario di Alesssan- 
dria. Vols, i, ii, iii, (18G5-'GG-'G7-'G8,) 4°. Vol. i, 120 pp. ; Vol. ii, 112 
pp. ; Vol. iii, 104 pp. 

Paine., R. T. — Meteorological report for October, at Boston, Massachu- 
setts, Newark, New Jersey, and St. Paul, Minnesota. (Newspaper slip.) 

Parl-er, J. B., Stetihen, Maine. — Newspaper accounts of the great 
storms of September and October, 1SG9, in Maine. 

Printed ahsiract of meteorological register for 18G0, at Portland, 
Maine, by Henry Willis. Also newspaper slips for several months oi" 
1859 and 18G1. 

Pearce, T. — Weather record for September, 18G9, at Ela, Polk County. 
Georgia. 

Petterson, F.,Jiospital steward.^ United States Army.— T:\h\e of mean 
temperature, humidity, and rainfall, at San Antonio, Texas, during the 
years 18GS and 18G9. ' 

Plantamour, E. — R«3sume meteorologique de I'anneG 18GG, pour 
Geneve et le Grand St. Bernard ; par E Plantamour. Tire des xVrchives 
des Sciences de la Biblitiotheque Universelle, Geneve, September 18G9, 
8°. 232 pp. 

— Resume meteorologique de I'annee 18G7, pour Geneve et le Grand 
St. Bernard. Octobre 18G8. 8°. 132 pp. 

Real Osservatorio di Modena. — Sui coefiicienti ozonometrici, dell' 
umidita e della temperatura, nota del Prof 1). Ragona. 8°. 10 pp. 

— Sulle oscillazioni regolari ed irregolari della temperatura, dal Prof. 
D. Ragona. 8°. 12 pp. 

— Riduzione della pressione atmosferica al medio-livello del mare, per 
gli stazioni meteorologiche italiane, del Prof. D. Ragona. 8°. 8 pp. 

— Sulle variazioni diurne della temperatura e sul coefFiciente di Kaeintz 
in Palermo. Lettera al chiar. Signer A. Quetelet, direttore del Real 
Osservatorio di Brussselles, del Prof. D. Ragona, direttore del Real Os- 
servatorio di Palermo. Palermo, 1859. 8°. 54 pp. 

— Osservazioni su la evaporazione, del Prof. U. Ragona. 4°. 8 pp. 

— Riassunta delle osservazioni meteorologiche, eseguite nel Real Os- 
servatorio di Modena nell anno 18GG, dal Prof. D. Ragona, direttore dell 
osservatorio. Stessa. 4°. 7 pp. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 83 

— Sul calcolo dei valori meclii in meteorologia, nota del Prof. D. Eagona, 
direttore dell Real Osservatorio di ]\Iodeua. 4"^. 2 pp. 

— Desci'izionc del barometro registratore del Eeal Osservatorio di Mo- 
deua, del Prof. D. Eagona. 4°. 8 pp. 

— Sulle variazione periodicie del barometro nel clima di Milauo, me- 
moria di G. V. Scliiaparelli e G. Celoria. 4^. 31 pp. Tav. iii. 

Bcal O.sservaforio di Palermo. — Giornale Astrouomico e IMeteorolo- 
gico, pubbl. dal Prof. D. Eagona. Vol. i, Palermo, 1855. 4^. 375 pp., 
Vol. ii, Palermo, 1857. 4°. 391 j)p., (three volumes iu one.) Vol. iii, 
Palermo, 1859. 4°. 375 pp. 

Kegio Osservatorio dell Universita di Torino. — Bolletiuo meteorologico 
ed astrouomico. Anno ii, 18G8. Oblong 4°. 7G pp. 

Roche, Edouard. — Eeclierclies sur les affascations du soliel et les m6- 
teioroscos miques. Paris, 18G8. 4°. 80 i)p. 

Royal Observatory, Greenwich. — Eesults of maguetical and meteorolog- 
ical observations, 186G. 4°. 303 pp. 

Sanjord, Professor S. P. — Meterological registers for 1800-07-08, at 
Peutield, Georgia. 

Sartorius, Dr. C. — Survey of meteorological observations at Mirador, 
Mexico, during the year 1808. 

Sawyer, H., United States consul. — Newspaper slips containing meteo- 
rological observations at Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana, for the lirst half 
of the year 1809, (January to June, inclusive.) 

Sell wei.zerisclie Naturforsehende Gesellschaff, Bern. — Sch weizerische 
meteorologische Beobachtungeu. 5^*^^ Jahrgang, 1808. 4^. 22pp, pi. ii. 
(Also September, Xoveniber, December, 1808. 4°. pp. 470-022.) 

Scottish Meteorological Society. — Journal for the half year ending June 
30, 1808. Large 8^. 47 pp. Journal for the half jear ending January, 
1809, with tables for the quarter ending September, 1808. 8°. pp. 31. 

Shepherd, Smiley. — Monthly means, «S:c., of temperature at Hennepin, 
Illinois, for 1809. 

Sisson, R. — ;\Iean temperature of twenty months, commencing April, 
1808, at Factoryville, Pennsylvania, vvith comparisons of the month of 
Xovember with former years. 

Smith, G., ho.'tpital steward. United States uirmy. — ^Meteorological reg- 
isters for the mouths of July and August, 1809, at Camp Date Creek, 
Arizona Territory. 

Snow, Edivin 2L, M.B. — Fifteenth registration report. State of Eliode 
Island, 1807, (coutaiuing meteorological tables, and remarks by E. T. 
Caswell.) 

Soeicfe d''A(jricultur€, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres du Departemcnt 
d'lndre-et-Loire. — Anuales. Containing: Observations meteorologiques 
faites a Tours, par M. de Tastes. 

Societe d'' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de la Sarthe. — Bulletin. 112'"*' 
serie, tome xi, 1807-08. Containing: Observations meteorologiques 
faites a Mans, par M. Bon hornet. 

Societe d'Horticulture deVAliier, Moidins, France. — Annales. Contain- 
ing meteorological observations by M. Doumet, at Baleine, Allier, for 
a series of years, (1855-00.) 

Societe Meteorologique de France. — Aunuaire de la Societe Meteorolo- 
giquede France. Tome 5'"*^, 1809, tableaux meteorologiques, feuilles 7-11, 
8-. 39 pp. Tome O""", 1803, feuilles 1-5. Bulletin des sceances. 8^. 
40 pj). Tableaux meteorologiques. 8°. 40 pp. ]S^ouvelles meteoro- 
logiques. Pamphlet. Large 8^. 30 pp. 

Stanley, J. R. S. — Monthly reports of the weather (mss.) at Houston, 
Texas. 



84 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Steivart, W. M. — Diagram of tlic anuiial quantity of raiu fallen at 
Glonwood, Tennessee, from observations made during tlie years from 
1851 to 18G8, inclusive. (The same tbat is referred to on page 523 of 
Professor Safford's report on the geology of Tennessee.) 

Thomas, Rev. C. — Copy of monthly aggregates froju the rain register 
kept at Fort Garland, Colorado Territory, from April 1853 to Septem- 
ber, 1809, inclusive. 

Tutwiler, H. — Account of a meteorite -observed near Frankfort, Ala- 
bama. (Newspaper slip.) 

United States consulate, Valencia, Spain. — ]S"ewspaper slips with me- 
teorological records made at the Meteorological Observatory of the Uni- 
versity of Valencia. 

Vacher, Br. — Carte representant la mortalite et I'etat la^teorologiqiie 
de Paris en 1805. 

Yerein der Freunde der NaturgescMcMein Mecldcnhurg, Gustroiv. — Arch- 
ive, 22*0 Jahre, 1809. Containing Uebersecht der ans den meteorolo- 
gischen Beobachtungen zu Hinrichhagen im Jahre 1807 gefuudeneu Mit- 
tel, (20 Jahre.) 

Vinal, ^y. I. — Weather record at Vinal Haven, Maine, during a por- 
tion of October, 1809. 

Warren, ^Y. J. — Record of the weather at Chilukweyuk Depot, North- 
west Boundary Commission, from December 29, 1858, to April 24, 1859. 

WJiltal-er, B. — Newspaper slips containing accounts of the vreather at 
Warsaw, Illinois. 

^^'lLite, Captain A. T., United States revenue marine. — Meteorological 
register kept on board of the United States revenue steamer Wayanda, 
cruising on the coast of Alaska from May 13 to> October 14, 1808. 

WiUiams, Bev. B. G. — Hourly thermometrical and barometrical obser- 
vations at Waterbury, Connecticut, and Castleton, Vermont, (in addi 
tion to regular observations on Smithsonian blanks.) 

Zelcdon, Jose. — Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en la cindad de 
San Jose durante el primer semestre de 1868. Oflcina Central de Esta- 
distica, San Jose. 

Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en la cindad do Heredia (Costa 
Eica, Seiior Rohrmoser) durante el auo de 1808. > 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



Washington, D. C, February 1, 1870. 
The Executive Committee of the Smitbsoiiian Institution respectfully 
submits the foUowiuf;- statement of tlie financial condition of Smitlison's 
trust fund, and the application of the income for the year ending 31st 
December, 1809, with estimates of receipts and proposed appropriations 
for 1870: 

The bequest of Smithson iu the United States treasury is . . 8511, 379 03 
The l\e;;euts have added to this investment from savings, 
&c 108, 020 37 

Making' the Smithson fund in the TJ. S. Treasury, as a per- 
petual loan, at per cent., on the 1st January, 1870 050, 000 00 

And in Virginia State per cent, registered stock . $53, 500 
With unpaid interest to January, 1807 19, 200 

$72, 700 

The value of vrhich, at the present time, may be estimated 

at 58 per cent 42, 200 80 



Total invested capital 092, 200 80 

And a cash balance in bank of 20, 909 05 

Thus making Smithson's Trust Fund, on the 1st Januarv, 

1870 1. 713, 170 45 



RECEIPTS IN 1809. 

Interest from the Treasurer of the United States, on 
$050,000, at i^er cent., for the year ending 31st Decem- 
ber, 1809 $39, 000 00 

Premium on sale of gold, at 34| and 19| per cent, premium . 10, 515 20 

Sales of publications 235 58 

Sales of old and useless material 232 07 

Eepayment of expenses of explorations and collections. .. 7'»2 15' 

Repayment for freights on literary and scientific exchanges . 517 50 

Total income for the year 1809 51, 232 50 ■ 

Cash balance in bank, January, 1809 10, 352 74 

Amount available in 1809 $01, 585 30 

In addition to this sum, the Institution received from and accounted, 
for to the Department of the Interior the sum of $4,000, approi)riated; 
by Congress for the preservation and care of the prox)erty in the mu- 
seum, collected by Government exploring expeditions. 



86 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Statement in detail of expenditures during the year 1869. 

BUILDING. 

For reconstruction of parts of building destroyed 

by fire $1, 704 70 

For general repairs of the building 2, 345 25 

For furniture and fixtures, cases, carpets, stoves, 

&c 2, 520 95 

$G, G30 90 

GENERAL EXPENSES. 

For meetings of the Board of Regents $122 00 

For lighting the building 239 13 

For wanning the building 1, 389 77 

For postage 289 50 

For stationery 437 18 

For i^rinting blanks, circulars, receipts, &c 322 25 

For tools, materials for cleaning and incidentals . 328 89 
For salaries of secretary, chief clerk, and assist- 
ants 7, 814 92 

10, 943 64 

PUBLICATIONS AND RESEARCHES. 

IFor publishing Smithsonian contributions, 4to . . $1, 987 18 
For publishing miscellaneous collections, 8vo.. 3,037 50 

<For publishing Smithsonian reports, 8vo 1, 458 55 

For meteorology, salaries of clerks and comput- 
ers, rain gauges, and thermometers 1, 581 10 

For apparatus for researches 146 80 

JFor explorations, natural history, and archaeol- 
ogy in Mexico, Florida, Alaska, New Mexico, 
Hudson's Bay, Alabama, and Nova Scotia. . . Gil 54 

8,822 67 

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND EXCHANGES. 

;For purchase of books, periodicals, and binding. $436 04 

For literary and scientific exchanges, agencies 

at Leipsic, London, Paris, and Amsterdam.. 4,860 94 

'For assistants in museum, janitor, watchmen, 

laborers, &g 5, 307 50 

For incidentals to museum, freight, alcohol, tax- 
idermy, &c 3, 513 96 

-For gallery of art : Portrait in oil of the late Dr. 
Eobert Hare, who gave his collection of chem- 
ical and philosophical apparatus to the Insti- 

.tution 100 00 . 

14,218 44 

Expenditures during the year 1869 40, 615 65 

Deducting this amount from the receipts of the 
year and cash in bank in January, 1869, viz : 
receipts $61, 585 30 

Leaves a balance in bank, January, 1870 $20, 969 65 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 87 

ESTIMATES AND APPROPRIATIONS FOR 1870. 

Receipts. 

Interest ou tlie Smitlisou Fund in the treasury of the 
United States, 8050,000, payable 1st July, 1870, and 1st 

January, 1871, at 6 per cent, gold \ $30, 000 06 

Probable premium on sale of coin, at IS per cent 7, 020 00 

Interest on Virginia G per cent, stock, 1809, 2 per cent 1, 451 00 

Interest on Virginia C per cent, stock, 1870, 2 per cent 1, 451 00 

Sales of useless property, &c 500 00 

Income for the year 1870 40, 428 00 

APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE YEAR 1870. 

For general expenses 812, 000 00 

For publications and researches 15, 000 00 

For museum and collections, not including the 
apropriation by Congress for care and pre- 
servation of the Wilkes and other explor- 
ing expeditions 6, 000 00 

For literary- and scientific exchanges 5, 000 00 

For building and contingencies 5, 000 00 

43, 000 00 

EXAJIINATION OF ACCOUNTS. 

The committee examined 497 receipted vouchers for payments made 
during the four quarters of the year 1809. In every case the approval of 
the secretary of the Institution is given on the face of each voncher, 
and the certificate of an authorized agent of the Institution is appended 
to each voucher, setting forth that the materials and property and ser- 
vices rendered were for the Institution and applied to the purposes 
stated in the account. 

The quarterly accounts-current, bank book, check book, and ledger 
were also examined, and showed that the payments were made in con- 
formity with the regulations prescribed b}' the Eegents, and that the 
cash balance stated in the accounts current for each quarter was in 
deposit to the credit of the Institution in the authorized depository, 
after all the quarterly accounts charged in the abstracts were i^aid. 

In conclusion, the committee finds that all the exijenses of the Insti- 
tution have been paid in full to the end of the year, leaving a cash 
balance in bank on the 1st January, 1870, of 820,909 05. 

All of which is respectfully submitted, by — 

EICHARD DELAFIELD, 
PETER PARKER, 

JOHN maclea:n^, 

Executive Committee. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS 

or 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

or TTi:: 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, D. C, Fchruary 3, 1870. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsoiiiau Institution 
was hekl on Thursday, February 3, 1870, at 7 o'clock p. m., at the Insti- 
tution. 

Present : Chief Justice Chase, Chancellor of the Institution, Messrs. 
Hamlin, Trumbull, Poland, Cox, Maclean, Delalield, Parker, and the 
secretary. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and adopted. 

Professor Henry, the secretary, announced that Hon. Hannibal Ham- 
lin, of the Senate, had been appointed a Regent, vice Mr. Fessenden, 
deceased; that Hon. James A.Garfield and L. P. Poland had been 
reap})ointed from the Honse of Representatives ; and that Hon. S. S. 
Cox had been appointed, vice Mr. Prnyn, whose term had expired. 

The secretary announced the deatli of Charles Armistead Alexander, 
esq., a valued collaborator of the Institution, whose series of si>irited 
translations of the eulogies of eminent men, delivered before foreign 
academies, have added much value to the annual reports of this estab- 
lishment, and have been received in several cases with much commen- 
dation by the original authors. 

On motion of Dr. Maclean, it was 

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution recognize, 
in the death of Charles A. Alexaneler, esq., the loss of a valued coHabo- 
rator, and that they sympathize with his friends and relatives in the 
bereavement to which they are subjected. 

The secretarj' i)resented a general sta^tement of the financial condition 
of the Institution. 

General Delatield presented the annual report of the Executive Com- 
mittee relative to the receipts and expenditures during the year 18G9, 
and the estimates for the year 1870, which was read and accepted. 

On motion of Ur. Maclean the secretary was directed to have an in- 
surance effected on the east wing and range of the Smithsonian building 
to such amount as he may think necessary. 

The secretary presented the eulogy on the late Professor A. D. Bache, 
whicli was received and ordered to be printed in the annual report. 

General Delafield, for the Executive Committee, reported that they 
were still collecting facts and statistics relative to the city canal, and 
would hereafter present a further report. 

The secretary stated that it was his painful duty to announce that 
since the last meeting of the Board the death had occurred of one of its 
most distinguished members — the Hon. William Pitt Fes'renden. 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE BOAED OF EEGENTS. 89 

Appropriate remarks were then made relative to tbe services, charac- 
ter, and virtues of the deceased, by Messrs. Trumbull, Hamlin, Parker, 
and the Chancellor, Chief Justice Chase. 

On motion of Mr. Trumbull the following resolutions were adopted : 

licsolrcd, That the Board of Ecfieuts of the Smithsonian Institution 
deeply mourn the loss of their distinguished fellow-regent, William Pitt 
Fessenden. 

licsolved, That in the death of Mr. Fessenden our country has lost a 
refined and intluential citizen, the Senate of the United States an able, 
judicious, honest statesman, and this Institution an active, intelligent, 
and learned Regent. 

Eesoh'cd, That we sincerely" condole Avith the afllictcd family of Mr. 
Fessenden, and ofter to them our heartfelt sympathy in their great 
bereavement. 

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated by the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the family of the deceased. 

Eesolrcd, That Chief Justice Chase be rcMpiested to pre})are a eulogy 
on Mr. Fessenden, for insertion in the journal of the Board of liegents. 

General Delafield In behalf of the Executive Committee, stated that 
they deemed it highly important for the interests of the Institution in 
the promotion of science, and due to the secretary for his long and 
devoted services, that he should visit Europe to consult with the savans 
and societies of Great Britain and the continent, and he therefore hoi»ed 
that a leave of absence would be granted to Professor Henry for several 
months, and that an allowance be made for his expenses. 

On r.iotion of Dr. ^Maclean, it was unanimonslj' — 

Eesolved, That Professor Henry, Secretary of the Institution, be 
authorized to visit Europe in behalf of the interests of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and that he be granted from three to six njonths leave of 
absence, and two thousand dollars for traveling expenses for this 
l)urpose. 

Judge Poland moved, that in consideration of the extra services which 
had been rendered by Mr. lihees, chief clerk, since the death of JMr. 
Eandolph, bookkeeper of the Institution, in auditing and keeping the 
accounts for the last three years, he be allowed $350, in addition to $250 
already received, or $200 per year. 

This proposition was advocated by the secretary, who considered it 
just not only in regard to the particular services in question, but also 
for his ethciency in the conduct of the general business of the 
establishment. 

The motion was agreed to. 

Adjourned to meet on the 10th instant, at 7 o'clock. 



Washington, D. C, Fehruarij 10, 1870. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 
was held on Thursday, February 10, 1870, at 7 o'clock p. m., at the 
Institution. 

Present, Messrs. Chase, Trumbull, Hamlin, Davis, Garfield, Poland, 
Delafield, Parker, Bowen, and the Secretary. 

The Chancellor took the chair. 

The minutes were read and approved. 

Professor Henry presented his annual report, which was acceiited. 

On motion of General Garfield, it was — 

Eesolrcd, That the Executive Committee and the secretary be directed 



90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

to prepare a detailed statement of all the money expended on the 
museum during the past year,, distinguishing between the items directly 
and exclusively chargeable to the care of the collections of the Govern- 
ment, and those of a contingent or indirect character. 

Mr. Hamlin presented the following, which were adopted : 

Having learned that the chief clerk of this Institution, Mr. William 
J. Rhees, is about to resign the office he has filled for seventeen years, 
to engage in an active business enterprise — 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents highly appreciate his worth as a 
man, and his services as an officer of this Institution. 

Eesolved, I'hat while they regret his resignation of an office which he 
has filled with honor to himself and advantage to the Institution, they 
hope that he may be equally successful in the career on which he is 
about to enter, and that a copy of these resolutions be presented to him 
by the secretary. 

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the secretary. 

[XoTE. — After this meeting the annual report was submitted to Con- 
gress and ordered to be iirinted ; therefore, the subsequent proceedings 
of the Board for the session of the beginning of 1870 will be found in 
the next annual report. — J. H.] 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



TO THE 



EEPORT FOE 1869. 



The object of this appendix is to ilhistrate the operations of the In- 
stitution by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as 
Avell as ♦to furnish information of a character suited especially to the 
meteorological observers and other persons interested in the promo- 
tion of knowledge. 



KEPLER: HIS LIFE AND WORKS. 



By M. Bertr.Os'D, Mcmhcr of the French Academy of Sciences* 



ITranslated for the Smiihsonian Insiitution hij C. A. Alexander.'] 

The liigLest laws of the jihysical workl have been established by 
geometers ; the hyj)otheses on which those laws rest acquire real import- 
ance only after having been submitted to their decision ; and yet the 
progress of natural i)hilosophy would have been impossible if the great 
men to whom they are due, imbued only with a geometrical spirit, had 
regarded only its inflexible rigor. 

Let us imagine a geometer initiated in the most elevated theories of 
abstract science. I speak not merely of a disciple of Euclid and Archi- 
medes, but an intelligent reader of Jacobi and of Abel ; and let us supi)ose 
that, while a stranger to every idea of astronomy, he should undertake 
to peuetrate by his own independent efforts the general structui-e of the 
universe and the arrangement of its parts. Let us place him, moreover, 
in the most favorable conditions ; let us admit that, free in spirit as Co- 
pernicus, he reposes not in the deceptive represeutatious of the senses 
which, veiling from us the movements of the earth, have caused its 
immobility to be so long regarded as an axiom : what impossibilities 
will present themselves to his imagination ! Borne along by an un- 
known movement, perceiving no fixed direction, no stable basis on 
which to rely for the determination of distances, he finds himself with- 
out data for the solution of the problem. Our geometer will attain, 
perhaps, to a conception of our own incommensurable littleness ; but, 
l^erceiviug no certain route, he will stop short by assertiug in the name 
of a science which he believes infallible, because it leaves notliing to 
hazard, that, whatever the genius of man and the resoui^ces with which 
art may endow his organs, our path through space is to him as undis- 
coverable as would be that of a grain of dust borne on the wind to the 
animalcules which inhabit it. 

Happily Pascal has gone too far in asserting that what transcends 
geometry lies beyond our reach. Tliis discouraging ai)preciation takes 
no account of a sentiment Implanted in the depths of the hunmn soul ; 
a sentiment which sustained Copernicus after having inspired Pytha- 
goras. Outside of all demonstration, in effect man believes in the har- 
mony of the universe and the simplicity of its mechanism ; and, although 
imagination stands in strong contrast to geometry, the history of as- 
tronomy presents them to us united in a strict alliance ; the former sus- 
tained by well-regulated reason, in some sort outstripping truth in order 
to reveal, as if by intuition, the beauty and general order of the system 
of worlds; the latter exerting its powers to test the true and the false, 
and by separating one from the other, finally to arrive at certainty. 

The situation of the astronomer who seeks to divine the symmetrical 
and regular order of the celestial bodies, ])resents a certain degree of an- 
alogy vrith that of the philologist who, with unkiu:)wn characters before 

"Mc'ruoires dc VAcadeinie de Sciences de Vlnstitut Imperial de France, t. xxxv, l^^'oG. 



94 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 

him, strives to reconstruct the words and ideas which they express. Foi 
the i)hiloh)gist as for the astronomer the problem is indeterminate, and 
it might be assumed tliat its solution is arbitrary ; what assurance is 
there in fact that those strange tigures are not simply decorative 
designs, capriciously traced without order and without object? And 
if they have in reality a meaning, no train of rigorous deductions 
can reveal it by leading us from the known to the unknown thi^ough a 
logical and sure chain of reasoning. It is necessary in such an inquiry 
to proceed tentatively, to accept conjectures founded on fugitive and 
remote analogies, to establish systems which the further study of facts 
will often overthrow, to frame hypotheses which Avill presently be re- 
jected, but which will be patiently replaced by others, and to do this 
without discouragement, because the true solution, we may be certain in 
advance, will, when once detected and in whatsoever manner obtained, 
offer such a character of certainty that no further place will be left for 
doubt. The same is the case with the true astronomical systems ; it is 
impossible to establish it by a series of rigorous deductions, and 
successively to demonstrate its different parts according to the method 
of the geometers. But, when a man of genius shall have divined, in 
whatever w^ay it may be, the principles which reconcile the uniform and 
simple reality with the complex and variable appearances, judicious 
minds will at once recognize the truth of the hypothesis, without scruti- 
nizing the means which have led to it, and without waiting for the 
solid and luminous proofs which, accumulating from age to age, will at 
length convert the most refractory by enlightening even the blindest. 
It is not my purpose to retrace, here, the history of the efforts succes- 
sively made in this direction, which would be the history- of astronomy. 
From among the great men who, withdrawing the veils which hide it, 
have by degrees revealed the universe in its " full and sublime majesty," 
I have simply selected, in order to sketch the part which he performed, 
the most intrepid, persevering", and inspired of them all ; by these terms 
I designate Kepler. 

John Kepler was born at Weil, in Wiirtemberg, 27th of December, 
1571, twenty-eight years after the death of Copernicus. His father, 
Henry Kepler, who belonged to the noble family of Keppel, was not 
worthy of such a son ; he several times abandoned his wife, who herself 
was of evdl reputation, and scarcely gave nnj attention to his four 
children. The early education of John w*as, therefore, much neglected ; 
his mother, who could not read, sent him, it is true, to school, but kept 
him at home whenever his services could be turned to account in the 
inn, which reverse of fortune had reduced her to the necessity of keep- 
ing. The boy's weak constitution, fortunately, rendered him but little 
fit for such employments, and it was decided that he should studj' theol- 
ogy. At the age of thirteen he was gratuitously admitted into the 
Protestant seminary of Maulbroun ; a favor easily obtained, for instruc- 
tion was at that time propagated throughout Protestant Germany with 
a zeal equally liberal and enlightened. " It is the head and not the arm 
which governs the world," said the rector of the University of Maul- 
broun, in 1578 5 " there is need, then, of educated men, and such fruit 
does not grow upon trees." 

From Maulbroun, Kepler, who advanced rapidly in his studies, passed 
to the seminary of Tiibingen, where he applied himself to theology, but 
without giving to it his whole attention. He here composed some Latin 
verses on the ubiquity of the body of Christ, the elegant precision of 
which attracted the admiration of the secretary of the national depu- 
ties. Yet, when he quitted, at the age of twenty-two, the school of Tii- 



LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 95 

bingen, he was not thought qualified to labor for the advancement of 
the church, and, furnished onlywith a flattering attestation of eloquence 
and capacity, he \vas named professor of mathematics and morals in the 
college of Oriitz, in Styria. 

The Archduke Charles, of Austria, who then goverued Styria, pro- 
fessed the Catholic religion ; but, what was very rare and little to be 
expected at that epoch, he extended to heretics an absolute tolerance ; 
so that the Protestants, who then constituted a majority of the rich and 
enlightened classes, enjoyed full liberty to call to their service for all 
offices such of their co-religionists as had been instructed elsewhere. 
Hence it was, that Kepler received an invitation to Griitz. Instruction 
in astronomy being one of his duties, he was charged witli the compila- 
tion of an almanac, and it was but natural that in a Catholic country, 
he should adopt the Gregorian reform which the Protestants obstinately 
rejected ; choosing much rather, as was said, to be at variance with the 
sun than in accordance with the Pope. Kepler, who never consented under 
the most difficult circumstances to compound for the free expression of his 
religious sentiments, separated, on this occasion, from his co-religion- 
ists ; the question, as he justly urged, was a purely scientific one. More 
than once in his career did he encounter it, and his opinion never varied. 
Sixteen years later, in 1013, in order to induce Germany to accept the 
new calendar, he composed, at the instance of the Emperor Matthias, a 
dialogue between two Catholics, two Protestants, and a niathematician, 
the latter of whom enlightens, and finally convinces the others ; but 
Kepler was not equally successful with the Diet, to which the question 
was submitted, and, in spite of his efforts, the Gregorian reform was 
postponed till a long time afterward. 

To increase the sale of his almanacs, Kepler did not shrink from in- 
serting astrological predictions of political and other events, and, as a 
few hajjpened to be realized nearly at the time predicted, not a little 
credit accrued to him on that account. His biographers have affirmed, 
however, that, superior to the prejudices of his age, he had no faith in 
astrological divination, but his correspondence shows that at this epoch, 
and even many years afterward, he was persuaded of the influence of 
the stars on events of every nature. In one of his letters he makes an 
applicatio nof his principles to the newly-born son of his master, Moest- 
lin, and announces that he is threatened with a great danger. " I doubt," 
he says, "whether he can survive it;" and, in fact, the child died. Just 
at that time one of his own children was also taken away; and when, 
on occasion of this double bereavement, we find him, with expressions 
of afi'ectionate interest for his master, again speaking of the fears which 
he had conceived, how is it possible to believe that he was not in earnest? 
But his predictions were not always so exactlj^ fulfilled, and, after being 
often deceived, Kepler became less and less credulous. Thus it fared 
with astrology as with many other errors which entered his mind with- 
out taking root. He said, indeed, that, as the daughter of astronomy, 
astrology ought to nourish her mother; and he continued during life 
to make for those who asked it, and for a consideration, predictions and 
horoscopes conformable to the rules of the art. But, so far from abusing 
the credulity of his clients, he avowed to them that, in his oi)inion, his 
conclusions should be regarded as uncertain and suspicious; telling 
them, as Tiresias tells Ulysses, (in Horace:) Quicqiiid dicam aut eritaut 
non — (What I may say will or will not come to pass.) 

The first scientific work of Kepler is entitled Mysterium cosmof/mphi- 
cum, and was composed during the earlier part of his residence at Griitz. 

I undertake to prove," he says in his preface, " that God, in creating 



96 



LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 



the universe and regalating tlie order of the cosmos, had in view tlie 
fi^■e regular bodies of geometry as known since the days of Pythagoras 
and Phito, a;;d that he has fixed, according to those dimensions, the 
number of heavens, their proi)ortious, and the relations of their move- 
ments." 

It is impossible not to be struck -with the confident ardor of the young 
author and his enthusiastic admiration for the wisdom Avhich governs 
the world and the majesty of the i^roblems to which his life was to be 
consecrated. "Happy the man," says he, "who devotes himself to the 
study of the heavens; he learns to set less value on what the world ad- 
mires the most; the works of God are for him above all else, and their 
study will furnish him with the purest of enjoyments. Father of the 
world," he adds, "the creature whom Thou hast deigned to raise to the 
intelligent contemplation of Thy glor\Ms like the king of a vast empire; 
be is almost comparable to a god, since he has learned to comprehend 
Thy thoughts." The theory which inspired such transports is to-day 
disavowed by science. That brilliant edihce was destined to crumble 
away, little by little, for want of sure foundations, and Kepler, at that 
epoch, may be likened, according to Bacon's happy comparison, to the 
lark which soars to the skies, but brings back nothing from her excur- 
sions. 

He always entertained, however, a great tenderness for this first labor, 
and, although he himself has, in a second edition, pointed out grave 
errors, he insists that no debut in science was ever more hai)i)y. Of 
this work little is recollected but some solid and convincing argninents 
in favor of the system of Copernicus. Kepler does not hesitate to cen- 
sure emphatically, in a note, the tribunal which had dared to place in 
the Index of the Lateran the works of the illustrious Pole. "When vre 
Lave used," he says, "the edge of an axe upon iron, it cannot serve ;if- 
terward even to cut wood." The calculations which he executed on this 
occasion served, so to speak, to clear the field which was to yield him so 
ample a harvest; and the learned world, not less charmed by the agree- 
able and brilliant form of his exi)osition than surprised by the novelty 
of his ideas, became attentive to what the young astronomer might in 
future submit to it. 

Having acquired a modest competence by his mai-riage with thc^ young 
and fair Barbara Miiller, already the Avidow of a first and se])avate(l 
from a second husband by divorce, Kepler seemed permanently fix(Ml in 
Styria, and devoted himself, amid general applause, to the study of 
the science in Avhich he delighted. His correspondence shows him to 
have been, at this epoch, fully satisfied with his labors and in the serene 
enjoyment of domestic happiness. This i)eriod of sweet tranquillity and 
studious leisure makes its appearance in his life as a i)eaceful oasis, 
where he was to repose but for a short time, and Avhicli he Avas destined 
never to find again. The Archduke Charles had as successor his son 
Ferdinand, Avho, a far better Catholic than he, chose as generalissimo of 
his troops the holy Virgin, and made a A'Oav to extinguish heresy in his 
estates; the most simple means Avas to driAC out the heretics, and it was 
that to Avhich ho resorted. Kepler, protected by learned Jesuits, who 
kncAV how to appreciate his merit, Avas treated with an exceptional in- 
dulgence. After having been forced to quit Griitz, he was permitted to 
return on condition of observing due prudence and reserA^e. This, Ave 
must conclude, he did not do to a satisfactory degree; for, shortly after, 
he AA^as banished anew, forty-fiA^e days being allowed him to sell or rent 
the lands of his Avife. It was of such acts, doubtless, that a celebrated 
historian was thiiLkiug when he wrote that, Avithout disturbance and 



LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 97 

■without cruelty, Ferdinand succeeded in suppressing the Protestant wor- 
ship in Styria. 

However this may be, Kepler, thus deprived of the means of subsist- 
ence and banished from Styria, where numerous friends had surrounded 
him, remained unshaken in liis faith. The Counsellor Herwart in vain 
l^rojiosed to him terms of accommodation ; his integrity could not be 
made to bend. Kepler, so ingenious in his researches, was by no means 
so in paltering with his conscience. Unable to yield his reason to the 
Catholic creed, he obstinately refused it his homage. The reasons on 
which he based his resolution, equally remote from the weakness which 
bends to persecution and the arrogance which braves it, are impressed 
with a calm and gentle dignity : " I am a Christian," he writes to Her- 
wart, "attached to the confession of Augsburg by a thorough examina- 
tion of the doctrine, not less than by the instruction of my parents. 
Tliat is my faith ; I have already suffered for it, and I know not the art 
of dissembling. Eeligion is for me a serious atfair, which I cannot treat 
with levity." And he continued, without losing heart, to find a refuge 
in science, devoting to it his hours of labor, his studious watchings, the 
ardent yearnings of his enthusiastic intellect. But this could not wholly 
preclude the bitter thoughts of exile and of poverty; if little concerned 
for himself, he could not help feeling how nearly those afflictions touched 
those who were dear to him. "I entreat you," he writes to Moestlin, "if 
there is a place vacant at Tiibingen, contrive to obtain it for me; let me 
know," he adds, " the price of bread, of wine, and the necessaries of life, 
for my wife has not been accustomed to a diet of beans." It was under 
these trying circumstances that he received from the celebrated Tycho- 
Brahe, who had become acquainted with his adversity, a i)roposition to 
unite w ith him in the astronomical labors with which he had been charged 
by the Emj^eror Eudolph. Kepler did not hesitate, and repaired with 
his family to Prague. 

Nothing could have been more fortunate for astronomy than the union 
of Kepler with such a man, whose researches, less brilliant perhaps than 
his own, are distinguished by a laborious precision, which no previous 
astronomer had ever carried to the same degree of perfection. Kepler, 
himself, seems to have foreseen all its advantages when, speaking of the 
observations accumulated by Tycho, he wrote the year previous to 
Mcestlin : " T3'clio is loaded with riches which, like most of the rich, he 
makes no use of." He had i:)racticed observation, in effect, for thirty- 
five years, without any preconceived idea, while keeping an exact and 
minute register of the phenomena of the heavens. These accumulated 
results, without directly disclosing the truth, were admirably calculated 
to preserve Kepler from error by furnishing a solid point of support to 
the boldness of his inventive genius, and as a limit established in ad- 
vance to prohibit its excesses. Having soon afterwards become, by the 
death of Tycho, possessor of the precious materials destined to fertilize 
his ideas, he was not slow in perceiving that under the confusion of 
those elements, which he might justly compare to the scattered leaves 
of the Sibyl, was concealed an eternal and immutable order, and he 
sought it duringnine years with the unwearied devotion which triumphs 
over discouragement, and with the energy which assures success. 

But with a view to proceeding in order, he first directed his attention 
to the elimination of a cause of error already indicated b}- Tycho, and 
one with which all the astronomical observations are infected : he stud- 
ied the laws of refraction. 

Hipparchus relates that twice in the same day he had observed the 
sun in the equator, and consequently two equinoxes. From this Ptolemy 
7 s 



98 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 

simply concludes that one of these observations is erroneous ; but the 
same singularity presented itself on different occasions to Ty{;ho, who, 
certain of his own skill and of the precision of his instruments, could 
not admit such an ox])lanation. He pointed out the true cause in the 
refraction of the luminous rays, which, null at the zenith, acquires at 
tlie horizon its greatest value ; consequently, when the sun is, in the morn- 
ing, a little below the equator, the refraction, by elevating its rays, may 
produce the impression of the observation of the equinox. Some hours 
later, when the sun is uearing the zenith, the refraction is less, and this 
cause of depression, compensating for the distance which the sun has 
traversed in its orbit, may cause it to be observed anew in the eqnator. 

Pliny cites another contradiction not less i)alpable, which, wliile 
equally showing theimi)ortance of the phenomenon of refraction, should 
have led the ancient astronomers to make it the subject of their study. 
"An eclipse of the moon," he says, "has been observed at the moment 
when the sun was still visible above the horizon." The moon conse- 
<iuently disappeared although the right line which joins its center with 
that of the sun appeared not to encounter the earth. 1'he fact is a con- 
stant one ; it was observed particularly by Mcestlin and by Tycho ; yet 
there is e^ idently a necessity that the earth, in order to eclipse the moon 
by its shadow, must be placed in a right line between the moon and sun. 
It is undeniable, therefore, that the three bodies are really in a right 
line at the moment of the eclipse, and the phenomenon must be ex- 
plained by the refraction which brings the two luminaries into an appar- 
ently simultaneous opposition above the horizon. It will be seen from 
these instances how important it is that this cause of error should be 
taken into account in the discussion of observations. The Arabian as- 
tronomer Alhazen and the Polonese Yitellion were the tirst to call at- 
tention to this point, and Tycho, who thoroughly felt its importance, gave 
still later a table of refractions relative to different inclinations. 

The difiliculty of such an investigation is readily perceived, not to 
say that any direct determination is impossible. Refraction is the angle 
formed by the right line which really connects the luminous body with 
our eye, and the line resulting from the direction iu wdiich it is per- 
ceived. Now, of these two directions the second alone is open to actual 
observation 5 the angle which it forms with the other cannot be meas- 
ured, and it is necessary to calculate it by an indirect process. The con- 
tinuous observation of a star followed from the zenith to the horizon 
might give it; the diurnal movement, the laws of which are not contested, 
causes the star, in eifect, to describe a i^erfect circle in the heavens, and 
knowing at every instant where it ought to be, we may i)lace to thie ac 
count of refraction the observed irregularities. 

The process followed by Tycho is a little different, but he was far from 
attaining the object in view ; according to him, the refraction of the 
light of the stars completely ceases at 20° from the horizon ; that of the 
sun, being more considerable, becomes null only at 45°. This is alto- 
gether inexact, refraction follows the same laws for all these luminaries, 
and becomes null only at the zenith. Kepler, therefore, took up the 
question from the beginning, and composed, under the modest title of 
Paralipomena ad VitaUionem, a complete treatise of optics. This work, 
though containing serious errors, is truly remarkable for the time when 
it was composed. We find therein the correct theory of telescopes, ex- 
act rules for determining the focal distance of lenses and the augment- 
ative power of an instrument. Here, for the first time, was given an exact 
description of the eye and the explanation of its mechanism ; it is here, 
finally, that we find an explanation of the cinereous light of the moon, at- 



LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 99 

tributeilin a spirit of loyalty to liis old master INFoestliii. Altliougli en- 
tirely misled as to au elementary law of refraction, Kepler has here cal- 
culated a table of astronomical refractions, which from the zenith to 7(P 
does not differ more than 9" from that adopted at present, but in ap- 
proaching the horizon the deviations become more considerable. We 
recognize in this book the hand of no ordinary artiticer; its i^ernsal is 
embarrassed by few ditiicnlties, and although in its doctrines tares be 
mingled in abundance with the good graiu, the student who wishes to 
])rove all things for liimself would still find much to repay his labor. 
Descartes, who cites it with honor in his Dioptrics^ expressly acknowl- 
edged the obligations wliicli he owed to it. 

But, while striving to attain the objects which he had proposed to 
himself, Kepler, as astronomer to the emi)eror, conld not properly re- 
main inattentive to the events which were taking place in the skies. 
He wrote, in IGOC, a long dissertation on a star which had appeared in 
the constellation of the Serpent, and which, after having shone Avith a 
brilliancy greater than that of Jupiter, disappeared as mysteriously as 
it had come. This phenomenon, strange but not unexampled, caused 
a great sensation. " If I should be asked," said Kepler, " wlmt will 
come to pass ; what it is that this apparition forebodes ? I shall an- 
swer without hesitation : First of all a flood of writings, published by 
numerous authors, and much labor for the printers. If I should be ac- 
cused of having in my dissertation passed too slightingly over the the- 
ological and political consequences, I shall reply that my charge imposes 
on me the obligation of promoting astronomy to the best of my ability, 
but not of fultilling the office of public prophet. I am glad of it ; if I 
had to speak freely of all that passes in Europe and in the church, I 
should be much in danger of giving offense to all the world, for as Hor- 
ace says, 

" JJiacos intra muros i)eccatur el exfra."^ 

One would scarcely suppose on reading these lines that they were 
written in 160G! 

He proceeds to inquire whence this star could have sprung and of what 
matter it was formed ; but he does not succeed in solving the question, 
and concludes only that the blind force of atoms has nothing to do with 
it. Of this opinion also was his wife Barbara; Kepler tells us so in one 
of those personal digressions in which ho sometimes indulges, aud 
which are so vivid and sprightly that in reading them we almost seem 
to hear and see him, and at the same time are so naturally introduced 
that we feel no surprise at finding them mixed up with the serious 
thoughts on which he is intent. " Yesterday," he says, " fatigued with 
writing and troubled in mind with meditations upon atoms, I was called 
to dinner, and my wife placed a salad on the table. Do you think, said 
I to her, that if tin-plates, lettuce leaves, grains of salt, drops of oil and 
vinegar, and fragments of hard-boiled eggs had been floating in space 
ever since the creation, in every direction and without order, chance 
could have brought them together to-day to form a salad? — Not so good 
a one, I am certain, replied my fair spouse, nor so well made as this 
cue is." 

The treatise on the new star, which contains thirty chapters, leaves 
the reader as ignorant as the author himself was aud as we to-day are 
of the nature and causes of the catastrophe which, from the presumed 

* Trojans aud Greeks, seditious, base, unjust, 
Oifend alike in violence and lust. — Fkaxcis's translation. 



100 LIFE AND WORKS OP KEPLER. 

distance of the stars, must have been accomplished iu the heavens 
and have troubled the systems of the cosmos many ages before the 
observations of Kepler. 

After nine years of efforts i^rosecuted with an intense application of 
mind which sometimes, as he tells us, had tormented him almost to 
madness, diu nos torscrat ad insaniam, Kepler succeeded in exactly 
representing the movement of Mars by two of the laws which have since 
been recognized as applicable to the other planets, and which have im- 
mortalized his name. His work is entitled : Astronomia nova, seu Physica 
ccclestis, &c. (The new astronomy, or celestial physics, founded on the 
study of the movement of Mars, deduced from the observations of Tycho- 
Bralie.) The preface, addressed to the Emperor Rudolph, furnishes a 
curious example of the si^irit of the epoch, even more than of the genius 
of Kepler : 

" I bring to yonr Majesty," he says, ^' a noble prisoner, a trophy of an 
arduous and long doul3tful war, prosecuted under your ausi)ices. Nor 
do I fear that he will refuse or scorn the name of captive, since it is not 
the first time that he has borne it ; long ago, as we are informed, the ter- 
rible god of war fell ingloriously into the toils spread for him by Vulcan. 
Yet, until now, none had more completely triumphed over all human 
stratagems ; it was iu vain that the astronomers prepared every thing 
for the struggle; in vain that they brought all their resources into action 
and marshalled all their forces. Mars, mocking at their attempts, dis- 
concerted their i)lans and baffled their hopes. Withdrawn in an im- 
penetrable secrecy, he succeeded in veiling his skillful evolutions from 
hostile observation. The ancients complained of this deceptive strategy 
more than once, and that indefatigable explorer of the mysteries of 
imture, Pliny, pronounced Mars inscrutable to human eye. 

"For myself, I ought first of all to extol the activity and pertinacity of 
the valiant chieftain Tycho-Brahe, who, under the auspices of the Dan- 
ish sovereigns, Frederick and Christian, studied every night for twenty 
years the procedures of the enemy, iu order to discover the jilans of the 
campaign and the secret of his movements. The observations be- 
queathed to me by my predecessor have aided me iu dispelling that 
vague and indefinite apprehension which is at first felt iu the presence 
of Pj mysterious foe. 

" During the uncertainties of the contest how many disasters have 
desolated our camp ! The loss of an illustrious chieftain, sedition and 
desertion among the troops, contagious maladies, all contributed to aug- 
ment our distress. Domestic solace and suffering alike interfered with 
business ; a new enemy, as I have reported iu my book on the late evan- 
escent star, precipitated himself on the rear of our army ; the veterans 
withdrew, the new recruits were untrained, and, worst of all, provisions 
were exhausted. Finally, however, the enemy became reconciled to 
peace, and by the mediation of his mother, Nature, sent me the avowal 
of his defeat. He surrendered on his parole, and Arithmetic and Geo- 
metry escorted him into our camj). From that time he has shown that 
he can be entirely trusted, and, content with his lot, asks but one fiivor 
of your majesty. All his family is in the sky ; Jupiter is his father, 
Saturn his grandsire. Mercury his brother, and Venus his bosom fiiend 
and sister. Accustomed to their august society he is ardently desirous of 
recovering it, and would wish that like himself they were all received iuto 
your majesty's common hospitalitj\ To that end it is important to profit 
by our success and to pursue the war with vigor ; its hazards are at an 
end, since Mars is in our power. But I entreat your majesty to remem- 
ber that money constitutes the nerves of war, and to be pleased to order 



LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 101 

your treasurer to deliver to your geueral the sums necessary for the 
levy of new troops." 

In couiuiencing the study of the movements of Mars, it was incumbent 
on Kepler to ascertain with precision the time of its revolution, which 
was not unknown to Tycho, nor even to Ptolemy, who had calculated it 
with nearly equal exactuess. It is a problem, in fact, which, notwith- 
standing- its apparent diflticalties, is of easy solution. The imaginary 
right line, called the radius vector, which counects the fixed center of 
the sun with the movable center of the planet, may be compared to the 
hand of a clock, and the time occupied in traversing its vast dial is the 
time of the revolution of jNIars ; the radius vector which unites the earth 
with the sun may be regarded as a -shorter hand than the preceding 
and as turning in the same direction. The movement of the latter is 
well known; it makes its circuit in a year. Suppose, now, though it 
be not absolutely exact, that the planes of the two orbits coincide ; in 
other terms that the two hands, of unequal length, move on the same dial- 
plate. Placed as we are at the extremity of the smaller, it is easy for 
us to note its coincidences with the greater, and the astronomers who 
attentively observe the sun and the planet Mars will be able to say afe 
what moment we are on the line which unites them. It has been long 
known that these oppositions of Mars and the sun, or, what amounts to 
the same thing, the coincidences of the two hands of the dial, take place 
on a mean every 795 days. The longer hand, therefore, makes in 795 
days one circuit less than the shorter ; and as the movement of the latter 
is known to us, the tyro in astronomy can deduce therefrom the move- 
ment, assumed to be uniform ; that is to say, the mean movement of the 
other. It is thus that the period of the revolution of Mars has been 
found equal to G87 days. 

This result being well known to Kepler, he conceived the idea of col- 
lating, in the observations of Tycho, those which differed precisely by 
that number of days, and for which, consequently, Mars, after having 
accomplished a circuit, had returned to the same point of its course. 
He thus very ingeniously eluded the difficulty, apparently insurmount- 
able, which results from its continual displacement in space. The two 
l)Ositions of the earth in its orbit being known through the previous 
study which had been made of its movement, the line which unites them 
becomes the base, at the two extremities of which the inquirer is con- 
sidered as placed for the observation of a planet, which, having returned 
to the same position, may be regarded as motionless. One of the posi- 
tions of Mars will thus be found with the date of two epochs, separated 
by an interval of (387 days, on which it has arriv^ed at that place. By 
interposing other observations separated from the first by a period of 
two or three revolutions of the planet, the same result will be obtained, 
a result which furnishes a means of verifying the calculations, and at 
the same time, what is still more valuable, a confirmation of the hypoth- 
esis adopted for the law of the movement of the earth. 

Encouraged by this first success, Kepler recommenced the operation 
a great number of times, following the planet step by step, in order, so 
to say, to stake out its course through space ; but how many points are 
needed to determine the geometric nature of a curve ? Eigorous geom- 
etry answers that, however great the number, it will not suffice, and 
that by any given j)oints an infinite number of distinct curves of very 
different properties may always be made to pass ; it is for this reason 
that so many tables admirably precise obtained by physicists have never 
been found susceptible, notwithstanding their efforts, of being converted 
into mathematical laws. The uncertainty and iucomxietence of science 



102 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 

in presence of sncli a problem require that patience slionld come to the 
aid of genins. Kei)ler attempted at first the verification of the hypo- 
theses ])revionsly aihnitted, by seeking- to place all his points on the 
same circle; but his efforts were futile ; his calculations left errors of 
sev^en to eight minutes subsisting, and he proved that no better could 
be done. Eight minutes seem but a small matter; it is about a fourth 
of the apparent diameter of the sun ; but it is in astronomy especially 
that it may be said with truth : Jle who despises small thhu/s shall fall hi/ 
little and little. Kepler knew it, and this little error, which he was 
unwilling to accept, became considerable by its consequences. ^' The 
Divine Goodness," he Tsays, " has given us in Tycho an observer so exact 
that an error of eight minutes is impossible." The hypothesis of a cir- 
cular orbit was therefore inadmissible; but Kepler does not on that 
account despair of victory, nor is his confidence at all shaken. He 
fancies that, like the wanton Galatea (in Virgil,) Mars flies to covert, 
but in hiding' wishes not to escape unseen : . 

Et fugit ad salices, et se ciqnt ante vhleri. 

This is the first line of his fifty-eighth chapter. 

After numerous attempts and laborious calculations, Kepler at last 
found that an elliptical orbit satisfies all the observations of Tycho ; 
then it was that, as he, expresses himself in his preface, he regarded 
Mars as a prisoner on parole. In a position thenceforth to interrogate 
the captive at leisure, he continued to press the inquiry more closel}', 
by marking the places which the new theory indicated for the future, 
and he had the satisfaction of seeing the planet, punctual to the appoint- 
ments which he had fixed, respond, so to say, to his summons, as the 
stars reply to their Creator in the book of Baruch, which La rontaiue 
so much admired: You have called, me-, behold, I am here! 

This complete and persistent conformity furnished the irresistible 
evidence of the two celebrated laws which he could at length announce 
with certainty : Mars describes an ellipsis of which the sun occupies a 
focus. The areas described by the radius vector are proportional to 
the time. 

But our statement of the great discovery of Kepler would be incom- 
plete did we not particularize two remarkable circumstances whicli, 
coming fortuitously to the aid of his penetration, conducted him with 
more facility to the goal from which they might otherwise have turned 
him aside. 

The movement of the earth, the presumed knowledge of which had 
served as a basis for all his calculations, was theoretically as imi)erfectly 
known as that of Mars. The circle in which he makes our planet move 
should be replaced by an ellipsis ; but this ellipsis fortunately differs 
from a circle in a sufficiently small degree to render the substitution of 
one for the other a matter of imlifterence for the rate of approximation 
to be adopted. Had it been otherwise, the method v>"ould have become 
inexact, and the numbers, by contradicting one another, would have 
warned and discouraged the accurate and conscientious inquirer. The 
second circumstance, still more remarkable, perhaps, was the imperfec- 
tion of the methods of observation and of the instruments of Tycho. 
Kepler might affirm, it is true, that an error of eight minutes was 
impossible, and this confidence saved everything ; had he said as much 
of an error of eight seconds, all would have been lost. The internal 
organ of judgment, to use au expression of Goethe, would have ceased 
to be in harmony with the external organ of sight, become too delicate 
and too piecise. 



LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 103 

Kepler had, in foot, deceived himself by regarding the imijortant 
advantage obtained over the refractory and stnbboru planet, as one of 
those decisive victories which forever terminate the contest; the great 
laws to which he had given ex]>ression, eternally true as they are within 
due limits, are not rigorous and mathematical. Numerous perturba- 
tions cause Mars incessantly to deviate from his path, and release him 
from time to time from the frail bonds in which the exulting calculator 
thought him entangled forever. For those, it is true, who are enabled 
to penetrate more deeply, the irregularities in question, once exi)lained 
ancl foreseen, brilliantly confirm the theory of attraction which they 
both enlarge and elucidate ; but the premature knowledge of those per- 
turbations, a necessary consequence of more precise observations, would 
perhaps, by involving the truth in inextricable embarrassments, have 
retarded for a long time the progress of celestial mechanics. Kepler 
would then have been forced, since the elliptical orbit must have been 
rejected on the same grounds with the circular, to seek by direct means 
the laws of the disturbed movement, at the risk of exhausting, against 
insuperable obstacles, all the resources of his penetration and the 
obstinacy of his i^atience. 

Kepler now conceived the idea of penetrating more deeply into the 
mysteries of nature and discovering the cause of the movements whose 
laws he had revealed. After having destroyed forever the old error of 
obligatorj' circular orbits, he announced the simple and true priucii>le 
on which rests to-day all ratioiml mechanics : the natural movement 
of a body is always rectilinear; but unfortunately he adds: ''Pro- 
vided there be not a soul which directs it," and this restriction mars 
everything. Neyo uUum motion pcrennam non rectum a I)eo eonditum esse, 
2)r(vsidio meniali destltntum. There needs, according to this principle, an 
um-easing force to conduct the planet in its curved orbit, and this force 
resides in the sun. Kepler affirms this expressly : SoUs igitiir corpus esse 
fontem virtutis qucc planetas omnes circumcif/it. It is the doctrine ot 
[N^ewton, or to speak more generally, it is truth. 

Admirers of Kepler have seen in the two phrases just quoted one of 
his highest titles to renown. On this point I cannot agree with them. 
lm[)atient of the mystery of the planetary movements, Kepler has here 
not been faithful to the inspirations of his genius: uncertain and irres- 
olute, he has attempted on the contrary ail kinds of explanations with- 
out ado[)ting and vindicating any one of them, and when the tiue idea 
crossed his mind, he was not able to appreciate or em])loy it. 

After having said that the cause of the movement is in the body of 
the sun, he supposes that the rotation of that orb is transmitted to the 
planets and impels them ;, he introduces, further, a magnetic force de- 
pending on the direction of the axis of the body thus impelled. Views 
of an extremely vague kind on the nature of attraction lead him more- 
over to believe that it is inversely proportional to the distance, and it 
Ijas been remarked that with a \'ery slight modification, his reasoning 
AYould have conducted him to the true law. Tiiat does not hinder him 
from believing tliat tlie planet, being sometimes nearer to the sun, some- 
times more distant from it, must be alternately attracted and repelled. 
AVith a contradiction which shows beyond all else the uncertainty of his 
ideas, he asks whether the planet, comprising its force within itself, is 
not endowed with an active jn^inciple which guides as well as moves it, 
and without going so far as to accord to it the faculty of reasoning, he 
bestows upon it a soul., which, instructed as to the route it must tbllow 
for preserving the <'ternal onler of the universe, directs and nuiintains 
it therein with imtiaggiug power and exhaustless energy. But how, 



104 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 

upon this hypotliesis, does tlie planet succeed in recognizing its patli ? 
The expression of its velocity necessarily incliules sines, and admitting 
even that this soul has a perception of angles, by what mysterious 
operation, he asks, could it calculate the sines of those angles ? Eecur- 
ring, finally, to the idea of a magnetic attraction, he is apprehensive of 
a contlict between the magnetic power and the aninml power. These 
confused reveries in which the genius of Kepler involves itself, make 
us involuntarily think of the words we have cited : " Torquchar pane ad 
/«.s'«^<yVrw;" they add nothing to hisgh)ry; it iinjiorts little that inter- 
polated among these opinions, which are so many errors, he has for once 
announced the truth without founding it upon solid reasons. When a 
traveler seeks his way in the darkness of a rayless night, and hesitating 
at every step, exclaims anxiously from time to time : Perhaps it is there ! 
shall we praise his sagacity because he has happened for once to guess 
right and has then passed on I 

It would be unjust, therefore, to claim for Kepler the discovery of 
universal attraction, but there is no room for surprise at this. Mechan- 
ics, scarcely in its infancy, did not enable him, however clear-sighted, 
to test his ideas on motive forces and to transform them into precise 
and calculated theories ; the labors of Galileo and of Huyghens were 
necessary to prepare even Newton for this, his immortal acliievement. 

The studies and meditations of Kepler were often interrupted and 
constantly troubled by chagrins and embarrassments of every kind. 
The heirs of Tycho were entitled to a share in the property of the as- 
tronomic tables which Kepler had promised ; they complained of his 
deferring their publication while he occupied his time with researches 
in physics and with empty speculations, while the celebrated astron- 
omer Lougomontanus constituted himself the organ of their reproaches 
and unjust suspicions. In a letter, at the outset of which he still treats 
Kepler as a learned man and a friend of long standing, he accuses him 
of indulging an immoderate zeal in the refutation of the theories of Tycho, 
of allowing himself to be diverted from the occupations of his office by 
the passion, for criticising everything, and of breaking, by attacking the 
works of his friends, the ties of affection which hound them to him. "If 
my engagements had permitted," says Longomontanus, "I would have 
gone to Prague exi)ressly to have an explanation with you ; but," he 
adds with increasing acrimony, " of what, after all, my dear Kepler, do 
you so much vaunt yourself? All your researches rest on bases estab- 
lished by Tycho, in which 30U have changed nothing. You may per- 
suade the ignorant, but cease to inaintaiu absurdities before those who 
thoroughly understand the matter. You do not fear to compare the 
works of Tycho to the muck of the Augean stables, and, like another 
Hercules, announce yourself ready to cleanse them ; but no one is 
deceived thereby or prefers you to our great astronomer. Your arro- 
gance disgusts all sensible ])eople." 

Accusations so remote from truth could not wound Kepler. He 
despised all this empty objurgation which re-echoed around him. A 
few notes on the margin of the letter from Longomontanus show in 
what estimation our philosopher held it. " Pretty abuse," he writes ; 
and again, " decent phrases, if you please, to disguise your spleen." 
His reply, in which he declines a useless discussion, displays unbounded 
kindliness; it enables us to discern the serenity of his mind and moder- 
ation of his character. "At the moment when I received your militant 
ejustle, pea<^e had long been made with the son-in-law of Tycho. You 
and I would resemble, in quarreling, Portuguese and English vessels 
which should tight in the Indies when peace was already ratified at 



LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 105 

home You blame my manner of accusing and refuting'. I 

yield the point, though I do not think that I have deserved your re- 
proaches. From you, my friend, there is no reproof which I do not 
accept. I regret that you did not come to Prague; I would have 
explained my theories, and you would have returned, I trust, fully satis- 
fied. Yon jeer me. So be it; let us laugh together. But why accuse 
me of comparing the works of Tycho with the muck-heaps of Augeas"? 
You had not my letters under your eye ; you would have seen that they 
contained nothing of the kind. The name of Augeas has found a lodg- 
ment only in your own imagination. I do not dishonor my astronomical 
labors by scurrilities." And in concluding: "Adieu," he says; " write 
to me as soon as possible, to the end that I may know that my letter 
has changed your feelings in regard to me." 

The i)eace with the lieirs of Tycho, was but a brief truce; they 
addressed themselves to the Emperor himself; but Rudolidi, though 
incapable as Emperor and King, had an enlightened and sincere love 
for the sciences, and put aside all these importunate cavilings. Sur- 
rounded, however, with enemies and rebels, the Emperor of Germany 
could scarce pay his astronomer some light installments on the con- 
siderable amount which he had fixed as his salary, and Kepler, in order 
to support his family, was compelled to accept labor of every sort, to 
make almanacs, calculate horoscoi)es, and place his erudition at the 
service of every one who could pay for it. 

After the death of Kudolph, his successor, Matthias, less fovorable 
to science and not less embarrassed by the incurable divisions which 
distracted the empire, entirely abandoned the observatory of Prague, 
so that its labors were interrupted through the failure of the most in- 
dispensable supplies. Kepler was constrained to relin(piish employ- 
ments which no longer yielded him even bread, and to accept the func- 
tions of professor at the University of Linz. It was in this city that 
he lost his wife, Barbara. Not long afterward, in order, he said, to give 
a mother to his three children, but without affecting to have made by 
doing so any great sacrifice on their account, he married again. After 
having compared with much care and subtlety of discrimination, as we 
see in one of his letters, the merits and attractions of eleven young i)er- 
sons commen<led to him by his friends, he espoused Susannah Kent- 
linger, orphan daughter of a simple artisan, who had been carefully 
educated in one of the most distinguished boarding-scliools of the 
country. " Her beauty, her habits, her form,'' he writes, " everything 
about her suits me. Patient and industrious, she will know how to 
conduct a modest household, and, though not in her first youth, she is 
of an age to learn all that may be wanting." This marriage was the 
occasion of an important work, in which Kepler shows by a new example 
that his genius, in its comprehensive survey, embraced all the depart- 
ments of science. "As I was about to be married," he says in the pre- 
face, " and the vintage was abundant and wine cheap, it was incumbent 
on a good father of a family to make provision thereof and replenish 
his cellar. Having therefore bought several casks, the vintner, a few 
days after, made his appearance with a view to ascertain the price by 
measuring their capacity, and, without making any calculation, plunged 
an iron rod into each cask and at once pronounced its contents." Kep- 
ler then recalls that on the banks of the liliine, doubtless because wine 
is there more costly, the trouble is taken of emi)tying the barrel in order 
to count exactly the number of quarts it contains. Is the much uiore 
expeditious method practiced in Austria sufticieutly exact ? "This is 
a question," says Kepier, "the study of which is not unworthy of a 



106 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 

g'eometer newly married;" and, to solve it, lie proceeds to discuss proi- 
blenis of geomtitry which may be accounted among the most difficult 
Avhich had been till then undertaken. A singular consequence deduced 
is the following : 

" Under the influence of a good genius who was, no doubt, a geometer, 
the constructors of casks have given them precisely the form which, for 
a line of the same length as that measured by the gangers, aflbrds the 
greatest possible capacity ; and, as in the neighborhood of the maximum 
the variations are insensible, small accidental deviations exert no appre- 
ciable influence on the capacity, the expeditious measurement of which 
is consequently sufficiently exact." This idea respecting maxinm, thrown 
out in passing, but in such absolute terms, by Kepler, received its devel- 
opment twenty years later from Fermat, of whom it is one of the titles 
to luuior. 

Kepler adds : " Who will deny that nature alone, without any process 
of reasoning, can teach geometry, when our coopers, guided only by their 
eyes and an instinctive sense of the becoming, are thus seen to divine 
the form which best comports with an exact measurement V In con- 
formity, at the same time, with his habit of mingling reminiscences of 
the classic poets with his scientific labors, he terminates this treatise 
on the Art of measuring caslcs with two verses, imitated from Catullus, 
which, freely translated, signify that, when indulging in conviviality, 
we should not count the glasses : 

Et qnam, pocnla mille mensi eriiniis, 
ContHrhabimus ilia, nc sciamits. 

This very learned work could be of no assistance to Kepler in the 
support of his family, becoming everj^ year more numerous; he was 
living, therefore, with great economy and amid continual anxieties for 
the future, when afflictions still more poignant came to embitter his 
latter years. A letter from his sister apjjrised him that their mother, at 
the advanced age of seventy, had just been cast into prison on an accu- 
sation of the crime of sorcery. Ineensed at the impertinent absurdity 
of the questions addressed to her bj^ the judge of instruction, Catharine 
Kepler had aggravated her position by becoming accuser in turn, and 
scornfully reju'oaching the magistrate with his abuse of office in the 
acquisition of sudden wealth. Unhappily, public opinion held her guiltj', 
and without any precise allegation overwhelmed her with the odium of 
all the calamities of the vicinage ; especially was general horror excited 
when the tact was established that she never looked any one in the face 
and had never been seen to shed a tear. These signs of malignity, it is 
true, were not conclusive, but as the judges, in impeachments of this 
kind, were absolved from the ordinary restraints and had no fear before 
their eyes but that of seeming too lenient, the usage was to extort by 
torture such confessions as would conduct the victim to the stake. 
Kepler hastened to the scene, and for five years of cruel apprehensions 
struggled unceasingly for the safety of his mother. Not all the prestige 
of his renown, however, nor his earnestness in demonstrating that 
"these tests of patience rather than of truth," as Montaigne expressed 
it, involve the judge in a deeper condemnation than that which he pro- 
nounces, could avail to hinder the instruments of torture from being 
exhibited to the aged Catharine, their uses explained to her, and their 
application threatened if her obstinate silence could not bo otherwise 
overcome. But nothing could shake her constancy; she declared her- 
self ready to sufler everything, and her lofty and resigned bearing saved 
her finally from the punishment, but not from the disgrace, which of 
course was reflected painfully on her son. 



LIFE AND V/ORKS OF KEPLER. 107 

During tbese times of trouble and disorder all Germany, agitated, as 
it were, by a violent storm, seemed little else than a tbeater for the evo- 
lution of armies and the calamities which accompany them. Oue of the 
most terrible contests which history records, the war of thirty years, 
spread desolation and the contagion of deadly maladies tlirongli all the 
provinces. In this cruel extremity Kepler, who to assist his mother had 
renounced the innctions of professor, was plunged in an ever-increasing 
destitution, against which his ardent spirit struggled without respite. 
But a last affliction was in reserve for him: he lost a daugliter of the 
age of seventeen years. It was now that, bearing up against these dis- 
tresses, he sought refuge in those serene regions into which the troubles 
of earth do not penetrate, and, casting aside the ini])ortunate burden of 
obligatory or lucrative labors, devoted all his thoughts to the composi- 
tion of a work which, as he tells us, yielded him more pleasure than all 
its readers together could experience in its perusal. Those inthiite 
spaces which surround us, whose eternal silence dismayed the sceptical 
reason of Pascal, possessed, in the harmonious diversity of movements 
which they accomplish, an inexhaustible attraction for the mystical im- 
aginatiou of Kepler; and as he thought that he had long heard in the 
depth of his soul the perpetual chorus of the mysterious voices of nature, 
he endeavored to give it utterance in the strange work entitled, "■Ear- 
moniccs mundi, Hhri quinqne,^' Five books of the harmony of the world. 

He first studies, geometrically, many regular figures, and the analyt- 
ical views to which he is led would have sufficed, as one of our most 
distinguished colleagues has said, to preserve the work from oblivion. 
He reduces his i)roblem to an equation, and interprets with exactness all 
its solutions. This, and nothing more, is regarded as within the scope 
of science at the present day; but sucli a result does not satisfy Kepler. 
"It is proved," he says, "that the sides of regular polygons "must ne- 
cessarily remain unknown, being, from tlieir nature, imdiscoverable. 
Xor is there anything surprising in the tact that ichat occurs in the arch- 
etype of the world cannot be expressed in the conformation of its partsP 
Proceeding afterward to the consideration of human music, and recalling 
the idea of Pythagoras, who, we are told, compared the planets to the 
seven chords of the lyre, he aims to show how man, imitating the Cre- 
ator, by a natural instinct is led, as regards the notes of his voice, to 
make the same choice and observe the same proportion which God has 
seen fit to introduce into the general harmony of the celestial move- 
ments; the same thought of the Creator being thus translated into all 
his designs, of which one may serve as the interpreter and figure for 
another. 

Seeking harmonies wherever they are possible, Kepler devotes a 
chapter to politics: "Cyrus," he says, "having seen in childhood a man 
of tall stature clothed in short tunic, and near him a dwarf habited in a 
long and llowing robe, was of opinion that they should exchange gar- 
ments in order that each might have what suited his size; but his 
master pronounced that each should be left in possession of what be- 
longed to him. The two opinions might be reconciled by decreeing that 
the first should, after the exchange, give to the dwarf a certain sum of 
money. Every one," adds Kepler, "clearly sees by this example that a 
geometric proportion may be harmonic, such is 1, 2, 4, or the beneficial 
arrangement which gives to the tallest the longest robe. An arithmet- 
ical proportion may also be harmonic: such is 2, 3, 4, or the useful ex- 
change which allows not the dwarf, possessing a long robe, to lose his 
property, but enables him to change it into money which he may appl}' 
to a better purpose." 



108 LIFE AJS^D WORKS OF KEPLER. 

This passage, whicli I translate as closely as possible, and I need not 
say without well comprehending its meaning, will suffice, I think, to 
give an idea of the chapter on politics. The last chapter of the work is 
occupied in determining precisely the nature of the planetary concords. 
Saturn and Jupiter constitute the bass, Mars the tenor, Venus the con- 
tralto, and Mercury the falsetto. 

These obscure and chimerical ideas, in which the mind of Kepler 
wearies and loses itself, seem the profitless and vain amusement of an 
imagination released from the control of reason; we read on with sad- 
ness, without venturing to sound the mysterious depths of that great 
intellect led, by an inspiration without light, into the pure domain of 
phantasy. But in the last pages of the book the genius of the inspired 
dreamer awakens of a sudden to dictate to him those bold and august 
expressions which have become not less immortal than the discovery 
which they herald: 

" Eight 'months since," he says, "I had a glimpse of the first ray of 
light; six months since I saw the dawn; a few days ago only did the 
sun arise in its transcendent glory. . I give myself up to my enthusiasm, 
and venture to brave my fellow-mortals by the ingenuous avowal that 
I have stolen the golden vessels of the Egyptians in order to raise a 
tabernacle to my God far from the confines of Egypt. If I am par- 
doned I shall rejoice at it; if it is made a reproach to me I shall bear 
it; the die is cast. I write my book; whether it be read by the present 
age or by posterity imports little; it may well await a reader; has not 
God waited six thousand years for an observer of his w^orks ? " 

Then, recurring to the precise language of science, he announces the 
celebrated law which, binding together all the elements of our system, 
connects the greater axes of the planetary orbits with the time of their 
revolutions. Nothing can be more unexpected than this vivid light, 
which seems to spring out of chaos; the astonished reader asks himself 
how it is that these precise rules and mathematical proi)ortions appear 
all of a sudden in a world which Kepler seems to have been traversing 
as in a dream; how such abrupt clearness succeeds such profound ob- 
scurity, such pure melody the uncertain harmonies wliich precede it. 
There is nothing to-day to inform us. Kepler announces his law ; verifies 
it, without comnninicating to us, as was his wont, the history of his 
ideas; and then, transported with the full and entire possession of one 
of the secrets longest and most ardently sought, he breaks forth into 
raptures of thanksgiving, and, not content with the common language 
of humanity, borrows the majestic symjihonies of the Psalmist: "The 
wisdom of the Lord is infinite, so also are nis glory and His power. Ye 
heavens, sing His praises! Sun, moon, and planets, glorify Him in your 
ineffable language! Celestial harmonies, and all ye who comprehend 
His marvelous works, praise Him! And thou, my soul, praise thy Cre- 
ator! It is by Him and in Him that all exists. That which we know not 
is comprised in Him, as w^ell as our vain science. To Him be praise, 
honor, and glory throughout eternity!" 

And in a note not less animated, and more touching, perhaps, than 
the text, he adds: "Glory also to my old master, Moestliu!" 

The Emperor Matthias was dead. His successor was his nephew 
Ferdinand, of Austria, whose pious energy, intent on extirpating the 
Protestant worship in Styria, had, twenty years before, troubled the life 
of Kepler. His zeal had^iot relaxed, and the persecution was rekindled 
with increasing violence: "Whither shall I betake myself?" writes 
Kepler to a friend. "Should I seek a province already devastated, or 
one of those which will not fail soon to be so!" He had fortunately 



LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 109 

preserved liis friendly relations with the most distinguished of the 
Jesuits, and, as their intluence over the mind of Ferdinand was un- 
bounded, they managed, when Walleustein was named duke of Fried- 
laud, to have an article introduced into the decree which might secure 
Kepler's safety by attaching hiui to the duke's service; it was also stip- 
ulated that the arrears of his salary as imperial astronomer should be 
l)aid out of the revenues of the duchy. But new difficulties soon arose: 
the gentle-spirited and affectionate Kepler, separated from his wife and 
children, could not become reconciled to the tumult and disorder of the 
camps. Little fitted for the calling of a courtier, he was deficient in 
the assiduity and pliancy necessary to win the favor of a haughty and 
imi)erious niaster, whose ])rotection was but a disguised servitude. 
Wallenstein, seeing with extreme impatience the little faith reposed in 
the language of the stars by him whom he considered as his astrologer, 
did not long defer the dismissal of Kepler, replacing him by the Vene- 
tian, Seni, whose delusive and accommodating science flattered, to the 
last, the i^resumptuous ambition of a soldier who, as Schiller says, 
"could scarcely tolerate that his will was not authoritative even in the 
skies." 

Kepler feared not, in his weakness, to dare the resentment of the all- 
powerful man who had imposed his laws on the Emperor himself ; he 
demanded with pertinacity the payment of the sum stiimlated in the 
imperial decree; but his strength was exhausted in vain in the numerous 
journeys rendered necessary by the prosecution of his claim, and he 
died at Eatisbou, in 1G29, at the age of fifty-eight years. 

By the union of the most opposite qualities, Kepler occupies in the 
history of science an altogether exceptional place. By evincing, irom 
his first steps in the study of astronomy, the presumptuous hope of 
deciphering the enigma of nature, and of elevating himself by pure 
reasoning to a knowledge of the {esthetic views of the Creator, he 
seemed at first to wander with an insensate audacity, and without find- 
ing soundings or shore, over that vast and agitated ocean where Des- 
cartes, pursuing the same object, was destined soon to lose himself 
beyond retrieval; but, in the ardent and sincere aspirations of his soul 
toward truth, if the curiosity of Kepler disquiets and impels him, it 
never delivers him over to the blindness of self-conceit. Eegarding as 
certain only what had been demonstrated, he was always ready to cor- 
rect his determinations by the sacrifice of his most cherished discoveries 
as soon as a severe and laborious examination refused to confirm them ; 
but what sublime emotions, what utterances of enthusiasm and exulta- 
tion, when success has justified his temerity, and by persistent efforts 
he has attained his end ! The noble pride which elevates and sometimes 
inflates his language has nothing in common with the vain-glorious 
satisfaction of a vulgar discoverer. Confident and daring when he is 
seeking, Kepler becomes modest and simple when what he seeks is 
found, and, in the transports of triumph, it is to God alone that he 
ascribes the praise. His soul, equally comprehensive and exalted, was 
without ambition as without vanity; he coveted neither the honors nor 
applause of men; affecting no superiority over the cultivators of sci- 
ence, obscure as they now are, to whom his correvS])ondence is addressed, 
he never ceases to express the same respectful deference for the aged 
Moestlin, whose sole glory in our eyes is that of having formed such a 
disciple. When, after having mastered his greatest discoveries, it be- 
came necessary for him to descend every day from the most exalted 
contemplations to struggle with the vulgar necessities of life, he never 
comi)laiued at seeing his merit overlooked or disputed, and always 



110 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLEK. 

accepted unaffectedly, without luuriiuuing or re])iiiiiig-, tlie labors and 
einployuients, whatever they might be, which would aid him in the 
sustenance of his family. 

The laws of Kei)ler are the solid and impregnable foundation of modern 
ostronomy, the immutable and eternal rule of the displacement of the 
heavenly bodies in space; no other discov'ery, perhaps, has better justi- 
fied the words of the sage: He who increases knowledge increases labor ; 
no other has given birth to more numerous researches aud greater dis- 
coveries; but the long and laborious route v/hich led to it is known but 
to the few. None of the numerous writings of Kepler are regarded as 
classical; his renown alone will be immortal; it is written in the heav- 
ens ; the i)rogTess of science can neither diminish nor obscure it, and 
the planets, by the always constant succession of their regular move- 
ments, will proclaim it from age to age. 

[Note. — Nothing is wanting to the completeness of the above memoir ; but, having 
been addressed iu tlie first instance to an assembhige of men of scicncij, the learned 
author has probably thought it superlluons to give so distinct aud formal a statement 
of the three laws, as they are called, of Kepler, (BcguUe KcpJcri,) as it may be convenient 
for the general reader to have beneath his eye. For this reason, the following brief 
exposition of those celebrated astronomical axioms is hero transcribed from the Ency- 
clopedia Americana. — Tr. 

" The first of these laws is that the planets do not move, as Copernicus had imagined, 
in circles, but in ellipses, of which the sun is in one of the foci. For this, Kepler was 
indebted to the observations which Tycho had made on the planet Mars, Avliose eccen- 
tricity is considerable, and agrees particularly with the rule; in determining which 
Kepler went through an indescribably laborious analysis. The second law is, tltat an 
imaginai'y straight line from the sun to the planets, radius rector, always describes 
equal sectors iu equal times. By this rule Kepler calculated his tables, imagining the 
whole plane of revolution divided into a number of such sectors, and, from this, he 
investigated their respective angles at the sun. This was called KejyJcr's ■problem. The 
third law teaches that, in the motion of the j)h^nets, the squares of the times of revo- 
lution are as the cubes of the mean distances from the sun ; one instance of the appli- 
cation of which law, in the want of other means, is in the determination of the distance 
of the planet Herschel from the sun, it having been ascertained that its time of revolu- 
tion amounts to a little more than eighty-two years." 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNO. 



By M. Arago. 



READ AT A PUBLIC SITTING OF THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, NOVEMBEK 

26, 1832. 

[The previous eulogies whichhave been pnblisbecl in the appendix to the Smitlisonian 
report, have been translated for the Institution from the original French. The follow- 
ing eulogy, however, is reprinted from a translation by the bite Baden PoweU, pro- 
fessor of natural philosophy in the university of Oxford. — J. H.] 

Gentlemen: It seems as if death, wTio is incessantly thinning onr 
ranks, directetl his stroke with a fatal i>redilection against that class of 
oar body, so limited in number, our foreign associates. In a short space 
of time the Academy has lost, from the lists of its members, Herschel, 
whose bold ideas on the structure of the universe have acquired every 
year more of probability ; Piazzi, who, on the first day of the present 
century, presented our solar system with a new planet ; Watt, who, if 
not the inventor of the steam-engine, the inventor having been a 
Frenchman,* was* at least the creator of so many admirable con- 
trivances by the aid of which the little instrument of Papin has become 
the most ingenious, the most useful, the most powerful means of apply- 
ing industry; Volta, who has been immortalized by his electric pile ; 
Davy, equally celebrated for the decomposition of the alkalies and for 
the invaluable safety-lamp of the miner ; Wollaston, whom the English 
called the Pope, because he never proved fallible in any of his numerous 
experiments, or of his subtile theoretical speculations; Jenner, lastly, 
whose discovery I have no need to extol in the presence of fathers of 
families. To pay to such of its distinguished ornaments the legitimate 
tribute of the regret, of the admiration, and of the gratitude of all 
men devoted to study, is one of the principal duties which the Academy 
imposes on those whom it invests with the responsible honor of speak- 
ing in its name in these solemn meetings. To pay this grand debt, with 
the least possible delay, seems an obligation not less imperative. Gen- 
tlemen, the native Academician always leaves behind him, among the 
colleagues with whom he has been united by the election of the Academy, 
many confidants of his secret thoughts, of the origin and course of his 
researches, of the vicissitudes which he has gone through. The foreign 
associate, on the contrary, resides far away from us ; he rarely joins in 
our meetings; we know nothing of his life, his habits, his character, 
unless from the reports of travelers. When several years have passed 
over such fugitive documents, if we still find any traces of them, we 
cannot reckon on tlieir accuracy. Literary intelligence which has not 
found a record in print is a sort of coin the circulation of which alters 

* This is not the place to enter on the controversy respecting the invention of the 
steam-engine. It may, however, be remarked that we may be well content to allow it 
to remain a question of dcf/rce. Every tea-kettle is a steam-engine. A very slight and 
obvious contrivance will enable steam to raise a piston. Let any one define what he 
means precisely by the term steam-engine, and the question of priority of invention 
will be easily settled. — Tra>'SLator. 



112 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

at tlie same time the impression, tlie weight, and the inscription. 
These reflections tend to show why the names of such men as Herschel, 
Davy, or Volta ought to be mentioned in our assemblies before tliose 
of many celebrated Academicians whom death has snatched from our 
more immediate circle. Moreover, I lio})e that after what I vshall be 
able to adduce, even in a few minutes, no one will be able to denj- that 
the man of universal science, whose life 1 am about to describe, and 
whose labors I shall analyze, has some real claims to preference. 

BIIiTH OF YOUNG — HIS CHILDHOOD — FIRST ENTKANCE ON HIS SCIEN- 
TIFIC CAREER. 

Thomas Young was born at Milverton, in the county of Somerset, 
June 13, 1773, of parents who belonged to the Society of Friends. Ho 
passed his earliest years at the house of his maternal grandfather, Mr. 
Eobert Davies, of Minehead, whom the active business of commerce 
had not been able to divert from the cultivation of classical literature. 
Young could read fluently at the age of two years. His memory was 
extraordinary. In the intervals of his attendance at the house of a 
village schoolmistress in the neighborhood of Minehead, at four years 
old, he had learned by lieart a number of English authors, and even 
several Latin poems, which he could repeat from beginning to end, al- 
thongh he did not understand a word of the language. The example 
of Young, like many others of celebrity recorded by biographers, may, 
then, contribute to keep up the common prepossession of so many good 
fathers of families, who see in certain lessons, according as they may be 
recited without faults on the one hand, or are badly learned on the 
other, infallible indications of an eternal mediocrity in the one case, or 
the beginning of a glorious career in the other. It would, indeed, be 
far from our object if these historical notices should tend to strengthen 
such prejudices. Thus, without wishing to weaken the vivid and pure 
emotions which every year the distribution of prizes excites, we may 
remind some, in order that they may not abandon themselves to dreams 
which they will not realize, and others, in order to fortify" them against 
discouragement, that Picus de Mirandola, the phenix of learners of all 
ages and countries, became in mature age an insignificant writer ; that 
Newton, that powerful intellect of whom Voltaire in some well-known 
lines asks the angels whether they are not jealous — the great Newton, 
we observe, made but indifferent progress in the classes of his school ; 
that study had for him no attractions ; that the first time he felt the 
wish to labor, it was merely to take the place of a turbulent school- 
fellow who, by reason of his rank in the school, was seated on a form above 
him and annoyed him by kicks ; that at the age of twenty-two he was 
a candidate for a fellowship at Cambridge, and was beaten by one Kobert 
Uvedale, whose name but for this circumstance would have remained 
to this day perfectly unknown; that. Fontenelle, lastly, was more inge- 
nious than exact when he applied to Newton the words of Lucan, "It is 
not given to men to see the Nile feeble and at its source." 

At the age of six years Young entered under a teacher at Bristol,* 
whose mediocrity was a fortunate circumstance for him. This, gentle- 
men, is no paradox ; the pupil, not being able to accommodate himself to 
the slow and limited steps which his master took, became his own in- 
structor. It is thus that those brilliant qualities developed themselves 
which too much aid would certainlv have enervated. 



* The master, Avhose unme was King, at first kept school at Stapleton, and thence 
removed to Towneud, both near Bristol. Young's acquaintance with the surveyor 
commenced after he quitted that school. (See Peacock's Life, p. 5.) — Tuaxslatok. 



EULOGY OX THOMAS YOUNG. 113 

Toimg was ouly eiglit years of age when cliaiice, wliose influence in 
the events of man's life is more considerable than our vanity often allows 
us to admit, tookliim from studies exclusively literary and revealed his 
real vocation. A surveyor of mucli merit in the neighborhood took a 
great fancy for him; he took him out into the country sometimes on 
holidays, and permitted him to amuse himself with his instruments of 
surveying and natural philosophy. The operations by vrhose aid the 
young scholar saw the distances andelevations of inaccessible objects de- 
termined i)owerfully struck his imagination ; but soon several chap- 
ters of a mathematical dictionary made all that seemed mysterious in 
the matter disappear. From this moment, in his Holyday excursions, 
the quadrant took the place of the kite. In the evening, by way of 
amusement, the engineering novice calculated the heights measured 
in the morning. 

From the age of nine to fourteen Young went to a school at Compton, 
in Dorsetshire, kept by Mr. Thomson, whose memory he always cher- 
ished. During these live years all the pujuls of the school were occupied 
exclusively, according to the practice of English schools, in a minute 
study of the principal writers of Greece and liome.* Young continually 
maintained his place at the head of his class, and yet he learned at the 
same time French, Italian, Hebrew, Persian, and Arabic ; French and 
Italian, from the chance object of satisfying the curiosity of a school- 
fellow, who posses-sed some vxorks printed at Paris, of Avhich he was 
desirous to know the contents ; Hebrew, in order to read tlu; Old Testa- 
ment in the original ; Persian and Arabic, with the view of deciding a 
question started at table, Avhetlier there were as marked difterences 
between the Oriental languages as betv.een those of Europe. 

I perceive the necessity of mentioning that I write from authentic 
documents before I add that, during what might appear so fabulous a. 
progress in languages, Young, during his walks at Compton, was seized 
with a violent passion for botany; and that being destitute of the 
means of magnifying objects of which naturalists make use when they 
wish to examine the delicate parts of plants, he undertook to construct 
a microscope himself, without any other guide than a description of the 
instrument in a work by Benjamin Maxtin; that to arrive at this difiS- 
cult result it was necessary to accpiire some skill in the art of turning; 
that the algebraic formulas of the optician having presented to him 
symbols of which he had no idea, (those of Jiuxions.) he was for a mo- 
ment in great perplexity ; but not being willing at last to give up the 
enlargement of his pistils and stamens, he found it more simple to learn 
the differential calculus, in order to comprehend the unlucky formula, 
than to send to the neighboring town to buy a microscoiie. The ardent 
activity of the juvenile Young had led hiui to exertions beyond the 
strength of his constitution. At the age of fourteen his health was 
sadly altered. Various indications excited fears of a disease of the 
lungs; but these menacing symi^toms at length yielded to the pre-scrip- 
tions of art, and the anxious cares of which this maladj' made him the 
object on the part of all his relations. 

It is rare among our neighbors on the other side of the Chaunelt that 

* It would appear from Yoiuig's o^Yn accouut that a far more liberal system was 
really pursued iu this school. Also, the praises of the usher, Josiah Jeffery, should 
never be omitted, who initiated I'oung at leisure hours into a variety of experimental 
and practical subjects, which contributed materially to his future success. (See Pea- 
cock's Life, p. 6.) — Translator. 

t The reader will of course make due allowance in this and many other passages for 
the ideas of a foreigner as to English habits. The anecdote of Y'ouug's iieumanship 
which follows is differently given by Dr. Peacock, p. 12. — Translator. 

8S 



114 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

a rich i)crsoii, intrnstins>- Lir, son to tlie care of a private iustnictor, does 
not seek for liiin a fellow-pnpil of the same ac^e amon,i];- those who have 
been remarkable for their success. It was in this capacity that Young 
became, in 1787, the fello\v-])ui)il of the grandson of Mr. Davi<l Barclay, 
of Youngsbury, in Hertfordshire. On the day of his first appearance 
there Mr. Barclay, who doubtless felt the right of showing himself some- 
Avhat exacting with a scholar of fourteen years of age, gave him several 
])hrases to copy, with the view of ascertaining his skill in penmanship. 
Y'oung, perhaps somewhat humiliated by this kind of trial, demanded, 
in order to satisfy hiui, permission to retire to another room; this ab- 
sence beii]g prolonged beyond the time which the transcription Avould 
have recpiired, Mr. Barclay began to joke on the want of dexterity he 
must evince, when at length he reentered the room. The copy was 
remarkably beautiful; no writing-master could have executed it better. 
As to the delay, there was no longer any need to speak of it, for ''the 
little Quaker,"* as Mr. Barclay called hiai, had not been content to tran- 
scribe the English phrases set him; he had also translated them into 
nine ditferent languages. 

The preceptor, or, as they call him on the other side of the Channel, 
the tutor ^ who had to direct the two scholars at Youngsbury, was a young 
man of much distinction, at that time entirely occupied in perfecting 
himself in tlie knowledge of the ancient languages. He was the future 
author t of Calligmplua Gncca. He was not long, however, in perceiv- 
ing the immense superiority of one of his pupils, and he recognized, 
with praiseworthy modesty, that in their common studies the true tutor 
was not always he who bore that title. At this period Young drew up, 
continually referring to the original sources, a detailed analysis of the 
uuuierous systems of philosophy which were professed in the diiferent 
schools of Greece.l llis friends spoke of this work with the most lively 
admiration. I know not whether the i)ublic is destined ever to see it. 
At all events, it was not without influence on the life of its author; for, 
in giving himself up to an attentive and minute examination of the sin- 
gularities (to use a mild term) with which tlie conceptions of the Greek 
philosophers teemed. Young perceived that the attachment which he re- 
tained to the principles of the sect in which hew*asborn became weakened. 
However, he did not separate entirely from it till some years afterward, 
during his sojourn in Edinburgh. 

The little studious colony at Youngsbury quitted the country during 
some months in the winter, to reside in London. During one of these 
excursions Y'oung met with a teacher worthy of him. He was initiated 
into chemistry by Dr. Higgins,§ whose name I can the less dispense with 
mentioning, since, in spite of his earnest and frequent remonstrances, 
there was an obstinate disinclination to acknowledge the share which 
legitimately belonged to him in the establishment of the theory of defi- 
nite proportions, one of the most valuable discoveries of modern chem- 
istry. 

Dr. Brocklesby, the maternal uncle of Young, one of the most popu- 
lar physicians in London at the time, justly confident of the distinguished 
success of the young scholar, communicated occasionally his productions 
to men of science and literature, and to men of the world, whose appro- 

* This seems iniin'obaWe, as Mr. Barclay's fomily were of the same sect. — Tkanslator. 

t Mr. Hodgkiii. 

t This work is not mentioned by Dr. Peacock. — TitAXSLAXOR. 

§ The share horue by Dr. Higgiiis in the snggestiou or discovery of the atomic theory 
has been variously estimated. For an apparently perfectly fair view of the case, the 
reader is referred to Dr. Daubeuy's Atomic Theory, p. 33. — Translator. 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 115 

batiou rniglit Lave greatly flattered liis vanity. Young- thus found him- 
self at an early period in personal relation with those celebrated men, 
Burke and Wyndham of the House of Commons, and tlie Duke of liicli- 
mond. The last nobleman, then master of the ordnance, offered him 
the place of private secretary. The two other statesmen, although they 
wished him also to follow a career connected with the public adminis- 
tration, yet advised him first to go through a course of law at Cam- 
bridge.* With such powerful patrons. Young might reckon on one of 
those lucrative offices which persons in power are not slow to l)estow on 
those who will spare them all study and application, and dnily furnish 
them with the means of shining at the court, the council, the senate, with- 
out comjiromising their vanity by committing any indiscretion. Young, 
hi>i)pily, had a consciousness of his powers; he perceived in himself the 
germ of those brilliant discoveries Avhich have since adorned liis name; 
he preferred the laborious but independent career of the man of letters 
to the golden chains which they exhibited so temptingly to his eyes. 
Honor be to him for such a determination ! May his example serve as a 
lesson to so many young men whom political ambition diverts from a 
more noble vocation to transform themselves into mere officials, but who 
might learn, like Young, to turn their eyes to the future, and not sacri- 
fice to the futile and transitory satisfaction of being surrounded by per- 
sons soliciting favors the solid testimonies of esteem and gratitude which 
the public rarely fails to offer to intellectual labors of a high order; and 
if it happen in the illusions of inexperience that they should think too 
heavy a sacrifice imposed on them, we would ask them to take a lesson 
of ambition from the mouth of a great captain, whose ambition knew no 
bounds; to meditate on the words which the First Consul, the victor of 
Marengo, addressed to one of our most honored colleagues (M. Lemer- 
cier) on the day when he, (}uite in accordance with his character, had 
just refused a place then of great importance, that of councilor of state: 

"I understand, sir, you love literature, and you wish to belong alto- 
gether to it. 1 have nothing to oppose to this resolution. Yes; I, my- 
self, if I had not become a general-in-chief and the instrument of the 
fate of a great nation, do you think I would have gone through the offices 
and the salons to put myself in dependence on whoever might happen 
to be in power in the position of minister or ambassador ? ISTo! no! I 
would have taken to the exact sciences. I would have made my way in 
the path of Galileo and Newton; and, since I have succeeded constantly 
in my great enterprises, truly 1 should have been equally distinguished 
by my scientific labors. I should have left behind me the remembrance 
of great discoveries. No otlier kind of glory would have tempted my 
aml)ition." 

Young made choice of the profession of medicine, in which he hoped 
to iind fortune and independence. His medical studies were commenced 
in London under Baillie and Cruikshank. He continued them at 
Edinburgh, where at that time Drs. Black, Munroe, and Gregory were 
in the height of their celebrity. It was only at Gottingen in the fol- 
lowing year (1795) that he took the degree of doctor.t Before going 

* "Mr. Wyndham advised him not to accept the appointment, and recommended 
him rather to proceed to Cambridge and study the laAV." (Peacock's Life, p. 45.) — 
Translator. 

t The author has omitted that, in 1797, Young entered as a, fellow-commoner at 
Kmanuel College, Cambridge, and in due time graduated there regularly in medicine, 
a step at that time necessary for his admission to the College of Physicians, in order to 
enable him to practice as a physician in Loudon. (See Peacock's Life, p. 11.^).) In the 
university he was familiarly known by the name of " Phenomenon Young." — Trans- 
lator. 



116 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

tbroiigli this form, so empty, yet always so imperatively exacted, Youn^, 
hardly beyond the period of youth, had become known to the scientific 
worhl by a note relative to the gum ladauum ; by the controversy which 
he sustained against Dr. Beddoes on the subject of Crawford's theory 
of heat; by a memoir on the habits of spiders, and the theory of Fabri- 
cius, the whole enriched with erudite researches ; and, lastly, by an in- 
quiry, on which 1 will enlarge on account of its great merit, the unusual 
favor with w^hich it was received at its hrst production, and the neglect 
into which it has since fallen. 

The Eoyal Society of Loudon enjoys throughout the whole kingdom 
a vast and deserved consideration. The Philosophical Transactions 
which it publishes have been for more than a century and a half the 
glorious archives in which British genius holds it an honor to deposit 
its titles to the recognition of posterity. The wish to see his name in- 
scribed in the list of fellow-laborers in this truly national collection be- 
side the names of Newton, Bradley, Priestley, and Cavendish, has 
always been among the students of the celebrated universities of Cam- 
bridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, and Dublin* the most anxious as wx'll as 
legitimate object of emulation. Here is always the highest jioint of 
ambition of the man of science ; he does not aspire to it unless on oc- 
casion of some capital investigation ; and the first attempts of his youth 
came before the public by a channel better suited to their importance, by 
the aid of one of those numerous periodicals which, among our neighbors, 
have contributed so much to the progress of human knowledge. Such 
is the ordinary course ; such, consequently, ought not to have been the 
course followed by Young. At the age of twenty he addressed a paper 
to the Eoyal Society. The council, composed of the most eminent 
men of the society, honored this i^aper with their suffrage, and it soon 
after appeared in the Philosophical Transactions. The author treated in 
it of the subject of vision. 

THEORY OF VISION. 

The ])roblem was anything but new. Plato and his disciples, four cen- 
turies before our era, were occupied with it ; but at the present day their 
conceptions can hardly be cited but to justify the celebrated and little 
flattering sentence of Cicero: "There is nothing so absurd that it has 
not been said by some of the jihilosophers." 

After passing over an interval of two thousand years, we must from 
Greece transport ourselves to Italy, if we should find any ideas on the 
wonderful subject of vision which merit the remembrance of the histo- 
rian, where, without having ever, like the philosopher of ^gina, 
proudly closed their school against all who were not geometers, careful 
experimenters marked out the sole route by which it is i^ermitted to 
man to arrive without false steps at the conquest of unknown regions of 
truth; there Maurolycus and Porta proclaimed to their contemporaries 
that the problem of discovering what is presents sufiicieut difhculties to 
render it at least somewhat presumptuous to cast ourselves upon the 
loorld of intelligences to search after what ought to he ; there these two 
celebrated fellow-countrymen of Archimedes commenced the explana- 
tion of the functions of the different media of which the eye is com- 
posed, and showed themselves contented, as were at a later period 
Galileo and Newton, not to ascend above those kinds of knowledge 
which are capable of being elaborated or corrected by the aid of our 

* And, it might be added, probably to a far more numerous class not of those bodies. — 
Translator. 



EULOGY OX THOMAS YOUNG. 117 

senses, and which have been stigmatized under the porticoes of the 
Academy by the contemptuous epithet of sinqyle opinion. Such is 
always human weakness that, after having IbUowed with a rare success 
the principal deviations whicli light uudergoes in passing through the 
cornea and the crystalline, ]Maurolycus and Porta, when very near attain- 
ing their object, stopped short, as if before an insurmountable difficulty, 
when it was objected to their theory that objects ought to appear in an 
inverted position if the images formed in the eye are themselves in- 
verted. The adventurous spirit of Kepler, on the contrary, did not re- 
main embarrassed. It was from psychology that the attack originated ; 
it was equally from psychology, clear, precise, and mathematical, that he 
overthrew the objection. Under the powerful hand of this great man 
the eye became, definitively, the simple optical apparatus known by the 
name of the camera-ohscura ; the retina is the ground of the picture, 
the crystalline replaces the glass lens.* 

This assimilation, generally adoi)ted since Kepler's time, remains open 
only to one difficulty ; the, camera-obscura^ like an ordinary telescope, re- 
quires to be brought to a proper focus, according to the distance of ob- 
jects. When objects are near, it is indispensable to increase the distance 
of the picture from the lens ; a contrary movement becomes necessary 
as they become more distant. To preserve to the images all the dis- 
tinctness which is desirable, without changing the position of the sur- 
face which receives them, is therefore impossible; at least, always sup- 
posing the curvature of the lens to remain invariable, that it cannot 
increase when we look at near objects, or diminish for distant objects. 

Among the different modes of obtaining distinct images, nature has 
assuredly made a choice, since man can see with great distinctness at 
renj (liferent distances. The question thus juit has aftbrded a wide 
subject of remark and discussion to physicists, and great names have 
figured in the debate. Kepler and Descartes held that the whole ball 
of the eye is susceptible of being elongated and flattened. Porter- 
field andZinn contended that the crystalline lens was movable, and that 
it could place itself nearer to or further from the retina, as might be 
needed. Juriu and ^Nlusschenbrceck believed in a change in the curva- 
ture of the cornea. Sauvages and Bourdelot supposed also that a 
change in curvature took place, but only in the crystalline lens. Such 
is also the system of Young. Two memoirs, which our colleague suc- 
cessively submitted to the Koyal Society of London, include the com- 
plete development of his views. 

In the first ot these the question is treated almost entirely in an 
anatomical point of view. Young there demonstrates, by the aid of 
direct observations of a very delicate kind, that the crystalline is en- 
dowed with a fibrous or muscular constitution, admirably adapted to 
all sorts of changes of form. This discovery overthrew the only solid 
objection which had, till then, opposed the hypothesis of Sauvages and 
Bourdelot. That hypothesis had no sooner been announced than it had 
been attacked by Hunter. Thus this celebrated anatomist aided the 
cause of the young experimenter by the attention drawn to the subject, 

* The author seems to have left this ilhistration iiicoiypletc. Kepler's suggestion of 
the identity of the ej-e with the camera-obscnra, after all, does not touch the ditiic-ulty 
of the hiversion of the image. Nor has it lieeu considered as completely cleared np even 
till much later times. The solution which, it is believed, is now most generally as- 
sented to is this : It is a law of our constitution, dependent on some physiological 
principle unknown, that we refer impressions on the retina to objects existing, or be- 
lieved to exist, in the rectilineardirection /com ic//ic/) the imin'cssion comes to the retina. 
Consequently, as rays cross at the pupil, falling on the Hjy^cc part of the retina a ray 
suggests an object lying helow, or an inverted image suggests an erect object. 



118 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

while his labors were as yet unpublished, and not even communicated 
to any one. However, this point of the discussion soon lost its impor- 
tance. The learned Leuweuhoek, armed with his powerful microscopes, 
traced out and gave iigiires of the muscular libres in all their ramilica- 
tioiis in the ca\\'stalline of a fish. To awaken the attention of the 
scientific world, tired with these long debates, nothing less was neces- 
sary than the liigli renown of the two new members of the Eoyal 
Society who entered the lists — one a celebrated anatomist 5 the other 
the most eminent instrument-maker of whom England could boast. 
These jointly presented to the Eoyal Society a memoir, the fruit of their 
combined labors, intended to establish the complete unalterability of 
the form of the crystalline. The scientific world was not prepared to 
admit that Sir Everard Home and liamsden together could possibly 
make inaccurate experiments, or be deceived in micrometrical measure- 
ments. Young himself could not believe it, and in consequence he did 
not hesitate publicly to renounce his theor3\ This readiness to own 
himself vanquished, so rare in a young man of twenty-five, and 
especially on the occasion of a first publication, was, in this instance, 
an act of modesty without example. Young, however, had really 
notliiug to retract. In 1800, after having withdrawn his former dis- 
avowal, our colleague developed anew the theory of the change of form 
of the crystalline in a memoir against which, from that time, no serious 
objection has been brought. 

isTothing could be more simple than his line of argument ; nothing 
more ingenious than his experiments. Young, in the first instance, got 
rid of the hypothesis of a change of curvature in the cornea by the aid 
of microscopic observations, which were of a kind to render the most 
minute variations appreciable. We can say more : he placed the eye in 
special conditions where changes of curvature in the cornea would have 
been without effect ; he plunged the eye in water, and proved that there 
was still the same faculty of seeing at difierent distances preserved. 
The second of three possible suppositions, that of an alteration in the 
dimensions of tlie whole organ, vras again overthrown by a multitude 
of objections and of experiments which it was difficult to resist. 

The problem thus seemed finally settled. Who does not see, in fact, 
that if, of three only possible solutions, two are put out of the question 
the third is necessarily established ; that if the radius of curvature of 
the cornea and the longitudinal diameter of the tchole eye are invariable, 
it must follow that the form of the crystalline is invariable? Young, 
however, did not stop there; he proved directlj^, by the minute phe- 
nomena of the (changes in the images, that the crystalline really changes 
its curvature; he invented, or at least gave perfection to, an instrument 
susceptible of being employed even by tlie least intelligent persons, and 
those least accustomed to delicate experiments, and armed with this 
new means of investigation, he assured himself that those individuals 
in whose eyes the crystalline has been removed. in the operation for 
cataract did not enjoy the faculty of seeing equally distinctly at all dis- 
tances.* 

* This instruuieut, called an " optometer," -^'as originally proposed by Dr. Porterficld, , 
and consists of a simple and iugenions contrivance for ascertaining the focal length of 
the eye, which varies so greatly in different individnals, and often in two eyes of the 
same'person, and in the same eye iinder different conditions. Dr. Yonug greatly im- 
])roved npon the original eonstrnction. It will be founu described in the Lectures on 
Natural Philosophy, vol. ii, p. 576. The principle of it consists in measuring accurately 
the distance of an object from the eye at which perfectly distinct vision is obtained, 
and which is determined when the object seen through two small apertiires close to 
the eye presents only a single image, while in other i)ositious it shows two images. — 

TUANSLATOR. 



EULOGY OX THOMAS YOU.NG. 119 

We miglit fairly be astonislietl that this admirable theory of vision, 
this combiuatioii\so well framed when the most ingenious reasonings 
and experiments lent each othei mutual support, did not occupy that 
distinguished rank in the science of the country which it deserved. 
But to explain this anomaly, must we necessarily recur to a, sort of 
fotality ? Was Young then' really, as he sometimes described himself 
with vexation, a new Cassandra, proclaiming incessantly important 
truths which his ungrateful contemporaries refused to receive ? We 
should be less poetical but more true, it seems to me, if we remarked 
that the discoveries of Young were not known to the majority of those 
who would have been able to appreciate them. The physiologists did 
not read his able memoir, because in it he presumes upon more mathe- 
maticfll knowledge than is usually attained in that branch. 

The physicists neglected it in their turn, because in oral lectures or 
printed works the public demands little more at the present day than 
superficial notions, which an ordinary mind can penetrate without difli- 
culty. In all this, whatever our distinguished colleague may have 
believed, we perceive nothing out of the ordinary course. Like all those 
who sound the greatest depths of science, he was misunderstood by the 
nmltitude ; but the applauses of some of the select few ought to have 
recompensed him. In such a question we ought not to count the suf- 
frages J it is more wise to weigh them.* 

INTERFERENCES. 

The most beautiful discovery of Young, that which will render his 
name imperishable, was suggested to him by an object in appearance 
very trivial — by those soap-bubbles so brilliantly colored, so light, 
which when just blown out of a pipe become the sport of every imper- 

*Arago, iu assio-uino- the probable causes of the neglect of Young's speculations, 
seems to fall short of his usual point and persi^icuity. It might be true that his 
memoii- \Yas neglected by physiologists because it was mathematical, and by parity of 
reason it might have been neglected by physicists and luathcmaticiaus as being physio- 
logical. But it is surely no reason to say that it was neglected by physicists because 
the public are superficial, &c. Young may have been in most of his speculations too 
profound for the many ; but this particular instance of the structure of the eye and 
theory of vision is, perhaps, of all his researches, that which can be the least open to 
this charge. The snl)ject is not itself abstruse ; it is one easily understood by every 
educated person, without mathematical atttainments ; and the point at issue was a 
simple question of fact, requiriug no profound physiological kuowledge to ai)preciate 
whether the crystalline has or has not a nuiscular structure capable of chaugiu"' its 
convexity. The real state of the case seems to be very satisfactorily explamed by 
Dean Peacock, (p. 36 et scq.,) from whose account, as well as from what has been since 
written, it appears, after all that has been done both by Dr. Young and others, that 
there is even at the present day considerable difterence of o[)iui()u ou the sul>ject. 

Perhaps the most comprehensive survey of the whole subject which recent investi- 
gation has produced will be found in the paper of Professor J. D. Forbes iu the Edin- 
burgh Transactions, vol. xvi, pt. i, 1845. After giving a summary view of preceding 
researches, and adverting to the prevalent opinion among men of science that the true 
explanation yet remains to be discovered, (most anatomists denying as a fact the exist- 
ence of the mtisoilar structure which Young conceived ho had proved,) Professor Forbes 
proposes as his own view of the cause the consideration of the remarkable variation in 
density of the crystalline toward its central part ; coats of ditierent density, being dis- 
Ijosed iu different layers, may be acted ou by the pressure of tlie humors of the eye 
when the external action of the muscle compresses them, and thus increase the ciu'va- 
ture of' the lens when tho eye is directed to a near object, the whole consistence, espe- 
cially in the outer parts, being of a gelatinous or compressible nature, and the central 
part more solid and more convex. Tluis uniform pressure ou the outer parts would 
tend to make the outer jiarts conform more nearly to the more convex interior iiucleus. 

It may be added that many physiologists are of opinion that, after all, there does 
not exist a sufficient compressive action on the ball of the eye to i^roduce the effect 
supposed. — Tkaxslatok. 



120 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

ceptiblo enrreiit of air. Before so enliglitened an audience it would, 
without doubt, be su]>ortluous to remark that the difficulty of producing- 
a pheuoinenou, its variety, its utility to the arts, are not the necessary 
indications of its importance in a scientitic i)oint of view. 1 liave, there- 
fore, to connect with a chihl's sport the discovery which I proceed to 
analyze, with the certainty that its credit will not sufLer from its origin. 
At any rate, I shall liave no need to recall the apple, which, dropping 
from its stock and falling unexpectedly at the feet of Newton, develope- 
the ideas of that great man respecting the simi)le and compreheusiv- 
laws which regulate the celestial motions; nor the frog and the touch 
of the bistoury, to which physical science has recently been indebted 
Ibr the marvelous i)ile of Volta. Without referrin g in i)articular to soap- 
bubbles, I v/ill sup})ose that a physicist has taken for the subject of ex- 
periment some distilled water, that is to say, a liquid which in its state 
of purity never shows any more than some very .slight shade of color, 
blue or green, hardly sensible, and that only Avhen the light traverses 
great thicknesses. 1 would next ask what we should think of his vera- 
city if he were to announce to us, without further explanation, that to 
this water, so limpid, he could at pleasure communicate the most 
resplendent colors ; that he knew how to make it violet, blue, green ; 
then yellow like the ])eel of citron, or red of a scarlet tint, without 
affecting its i»urity, without mixing with it any foreign substance, with- 
out changing the proportions of its constituent gaseous elements. 
Would not the public regard our physicist as unworthy of all belief, 
especially when, after such strange assertions, he should add, that to 
produce color in water, itsufiices to reduce it to the state of a thin film ; 
that "thin" is, so to speak, the synonym of "colored;" that the passage 
of each tint into one the most different from it is the necessary conse- 
quence of a simple variation of the thickness of the liquid film ; that 
this variation, for instance, in passing from red to green, is not the 
thousandth part of the thickness of a hair ? Yet these incredible propo- 
sitions are only the iiecessary consequences deduced from the accidental 
observation of the colors presented by soap-bubbles, and even by ex- 
tremely thin films of all sorts of substances. 

To comprehend how such phenomena have, during more than two 
thousand years, daily met the eyes of philosophers without exciting 
their attention, we Imve need to recollect to how few persons nature 
imparts the valuable faculty of being astonished to any purpose. Boyle 
was the first to penetrate into this rich mine. He confined himself, 
however, to the minute description of the varied circumstances which 
gave rise to these iridescent colors. Hooke, his fellow-laborer, went 
further. He believed that he had discovered the cause of this kind of 
colors in the coincidences of the rays, or, to speak in his own language, 
ill the mutual action on each other of the «y( res reflected by the two 
surfaces of the thin film. This was, we may admit, a suggestion charac- 
teristic of genius ; but it could not be made use of at an epoch when 
the compound nature of white light was not as yet understood. 

Newton made the colors of thin films a favorite object of study. He 
devoted to them an entire book of his celebrated treatise, the "Optics." 
He established the laws of their formation by an admirably connected 
chain of experiments, which no one has since surpassed in excellence. 
In illuminating with homogeneous light the very regularly-formed 
series of bands of which Hooke had already made mention, and which 
(U-iginated round the point of contact of two lenses pressed closely 
together, he proved that for each species of simple color there exists, in 
thin film's of every substance, a series of thicknesses gradually increasing, 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 121 

at cacb of wbicli uo light is reflected from the fihii. This result was of 
capital importauce ; it included the key to all these phenomena. 

JScwton was less happy in the theoretical views Avhich these remark- 
able observations suggested to him. To say, with him, that the luminous 
ray which is reflected is "in a fit of easy reflection;" to say that the ray 
which passes through the film entire is "in a fit of easy transmission" — 
what is it but to announce, in obscure terms, merely the same fact which 
tbe experiment with the two lenses has already taught us '?* 

Tlie theory of Thomas Young is not amenable to this criticism. Here 
there is no longer admitted any peculiar kind of "fits" as primordial 
properties of the rays. The thin film is here assimilated in all respects 
to any thicker reflector of the same substance. If at certain points in 
its surface no light is visible, Young did not conclude that therefore its 
reflection had ceased ; he supi)osed that, in the special directions of 
those points, the rays reflected by the second surface proceeded to meet 
with those reflected from the first surface, and completely destroyed 
them. This conflict of the rays is what the author designated by the 
term '■^interference," which has since become so famous. 

Observe, then, here the most singular of hypotheses. We must cer- 
tainly feel surprised at finding night in full sunshine at i>oints where 
tbe rays of that luminary arrive freely; but who would have imagined 
that we should thence come to supi^ose that darkness could be engen- 
dered by adding light to light ? 

A physicist is truly eminent when he is able to announce any result 
which, to such an extent, clashes with all received ideas; but he ought, 
without delay, to support his views by demonstrative proofs, under tbe 
I)enalty of being assimilated to those Oriental writers whose fantastic 
reveries charmed the thousand and one nights of tbe Sultan Schabriar. 

Young bad not this degree of prudence. He showed at once that his 
theory would agree with tbe phenomena, but without going beyond 
mere possibility. When at a later period be arrived at real proofs of it, 
the public bad other prepossessions, which he was not able to overcome. 
However, tbe experiment, whence our colleague deduced so memorable 
a discovery, could not excite tbe shadow of a doubt.t 

* In regard to the theory of the "fits," the author liere seems to represent Newton's 
view as, in fact, mere tautology ; while in other places he is supposed to have indulged 
in a visionary theory on the subject. Newton, however, expressly says : "What kind 
of action or disposition this is — whether it consists in a circulating or vibrating 
motion of the ray, or of the medium, or something else, I do not here inquire." (Oj)- 
tics, p. 255, ed. 1721.) 

The fact is, Newton in his optical researches expressed the same avowed and syste- 
matic dislike in indulging in ani) gratuitous theories as in his other inquiries. " Hijpo- 
iJicics noil Jhif/o,'" was his motto in these as well as in other researches. lu adopting 
the idea of " fits of easy reiiection and transmission," we are of opinion that hedidnot 
violate that maxim, and that it was in fact the only legitimate first exiiression of the 
conclusion whicli the facts warranted. At certain points uo light appeared; it was the 
legitiinato inference, in the then state of knowledge, tlud none teas rejkctccl. But 
light was clearly under the same circumstances Iransmitted ; at a distance a little 
greater along the ray, an opposite etTect was witnessed; and so on. It was nothing 
more than the strict inference that at those jioints successively soviethituj occurred in the 
coui-se of the ray which disposed it for, or induced, refiection in the one case, and non- 
reflection in the other ; accompanied in tlie latter case by like tendency to transmis- 
sion. These apparent " fits" must be still acknowledged as phenomena ; the mechanism 
by which they are produced is, however, now known to bo nothing inherent in the 
light, no essential pro])erty recurring, but the simple periodicity of conspiring or 
counteracting wa\e action. — Ti:axslator. 

tin the retrospective glance Avhicli the author thus gives over the progress of dis- 
covery previous to the period at Avhicli Dr. Young first entered on the field, what we 
liavr, chiefly to observe is, that up to that date nothing like a connected view of the 
physical character of this wonderful agent had been attained ; a few isolated specula- 



122 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

Two rays proceeding from tlie same source by slightly uueqnal routes, 
crossed one anotlier at a certain point iu space. At this point was 
placed a slieet of white paper. Eacli ray, taken by itself, made the 
l)aper more bright at that point, but when the two rays united and 
arrived at that point together all brightness disappeared 5 complete 
night succeeded to day. 

Two rays do not always annihilate each other completely at their 
point of intersection. Sometimes we observe only a partial weakening 
of intensity ; sometimes, on the other hand, the rays conspire and in- 
crease the illumination. Everything depends on the diflference in the 
length of route w^hich they have gone through, and that according to 

! 

tions had, iudeecl. been put forth respecting a theory of emitted molecules on the one 
hand, and of waves in an ethereal medium on the other, and a few experimental facta 
bearing on the choice between such hypotheses had been ascertained. 

The several distinct j)lieuomena of common reflection and refraction, of donble 
refraction, of inflection or diffraction, and of tlie colored rings did not seem to be con- 
nected by any common principle, nor, even separately considered, could it be said that 
they were very satisfactorily ex])lained. It was now the peculiar distinction of Young 
to perceive, and to establish in the most incontestable manner, a great principle of the 
simplest kind, which at once rendered the wave hypothesis applicable to the two last- 
named classes of facts, and thus directly connected them with the former. It is not 
always that we are enabled to trace the iirst rise and progress of the idea of a great 
discovery in the inventor's mind. We cannot forbear from here noticing that Dr. 
Young has left on record the progress of the first suggestions which occurred to him 
on the subject of interference. The first view which juesented itself was that of the 
analogies furnished by sound, which, as is well known, is conveyed by means of waves 
proi^agated in air; and iu the case of two sounds diflering a very little from the same 
pitch, produced at the same time, we have not a continuous sound, but heats — that is, 
alternations of sound and silence; the waves iu the one case conspiring with and reen- 
forciug each other, iu the other counteracting, neutralizing, and destroying each other. 
But in more special reference to light. Dr. Y'oung's account of the origin of his ideas is 
so clear and striking that w« nnist give it in his own words : " It was in May, 1801, that 
I discovered, by rdiectiug on the beautiful experiments of Newton, a law which appears 
to me to account for a greater variety of interesting phenomena than any other optical 
principle that has yet been made known. I shall endeavor to explain this law by a 
comparison : Suppose a number of equal waves of water to move upon the surface of a 
stagnant lake with, a certain constant velocity, and to enter a narrow channel leading out 
of the lake. Suppose, then, another similar cause to have excited another equal series 
of waves, which arrive at the same channel with the same velocity, and at the same time 
with the first. Neither series of waves will destroy the other, but their efi'ects will 
be combined ; if they enter the channel in such a manner that the elevations of the 
one series coincide with those of the other, they must together produce a series of 
greater joint elevations; but if the elevations of one series are so situated as to cor- 
respond to the depressions of the other, they must exactly fill up those depressions, 
and the surface of the water must remain smooth ; at least, I can discover no alternative, 
either from theory or from experiment. Now, I maintain that similar eliccts take 
place whenever two portions of light are thus mixed, and this I call the general law of 
the interference of light." — Tkanslatoe. 

For the sake of many readers it may not be superfluous or useless here briefly to 
illustrate the application of these theoretical ideas. We have only to imagine in like 
manner, in the case of the rays of light, two sets of waves propagatcnl through an ethe- 
real medium and coinciding iu direction, when it will be easily apparent itbat just as 
in the case of the supposed canal, they may have their waves either conspiring or 
counteracting, and consequently giving a point of brightness or darkness accordingly. 
Thus, a coiucidence in the periods, or an interval of an integer imniber of entire wave- 
lengths would cause the two systems of waves to conspire and reenforce each other ; 
a difference of periods of half a wave-length, or any odd number of Lalf wave-lengths, 
would cause tlie two systems to counteract or neutralize each other. Thus, according 
to the thickness, there would bo a point of darkness or of brightness for each primary 
ray, and the succession of tints would be perfectly explained. 

This would directly apjily to the //( in films. A ray impinging would be partly reflected 
at the first surface of the thin film; partly entering, it would be reflected internally at 
its second surface, and emerge coincidiug in f/(rcc//o« with the first, but retarded behind 
it from the thickness traversed in its nnd illations either by a whole or half undulation, 
or some multiples of these, thus giving either a point of brightness or one of darkness 
accordingly; or by some intermediate fraction giving an intermediate shade. Aild 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 



123 




very simple laws, tlie discovery of wbicli, iu auy age, would suffice to 
immortalize a j)bysicist. 

The differences of route wliicli produce these conflicts between the 
rays, accompanied by their entire mutu.al destruction, have not the same 
numerical value for the differently colored ])rimary rays. When two 
white rays cross, it is then possible that one of their chief constituent 
parts, the red for exami)le, may alone be iu a condition fit for mutual 
destruction. But white deprived of its red, becomes green. Thus, in- 
terference of light manifests itself in the phenomena of coloration. 
Thus, the different elementary colors are placed in evidence without any 
prism to separate them. AVe should, however, remark that there does 

this would go on alternately at successively greater thicknesses of the film, giving a 
succession of such points or bands. 

Thus, at two successive 
thicliucsses of the plate p, 
the incident rays, falling 
on it iu parallel directions 
i i, are reflected partially 
from the first surface r r, 
and partially from the sec- 
ond >■' r'. According to the 
difference of thickness trav- 
ersed, these may be in ac- 
cordance giving a point of 
brightness as -j-, or in dis- 
cordance giving a point of 
darkness as at o. 

If two rays or sets of waves, instead of being exactly superimposed, be supposed to 
meet inclined at a very acute angle, in a somewhat similar way they would, at a series 
of points, alternately conspire or clash with each other, thus giving rise to a. series of 
bright and dark points, the assemblage of which will produce l)ands 
or strijies on a screen intercepting the rays. Now, as to actual exper- 
imental cases, it was in the application of this latter theoretical idea 
that the invention of Dr. Young was i^eculiarly displayed. The 
former case was that alone which seems to have occurred to Hooke, 
in reference to the colors of thin plates, and even this was in his 
mind l)ut a very indefinite conception ; nor did it seem at first sight 
readily comparable with such cases as the diftraction fringes, or still 
less with the internal bands of a shadow observed by Grimaldi. If 
Hooke had imagined any theoretical views of this kind, it was j)rob- 
ably confined to the one case of the thin films. Young's great merit 
was the comprehensiveness of his principle ; and in following out the 
investigation he proceeded at once to such a generalization as evinced 
that comprehensiveness, and connected immediately those classes of 
phenomena apparently so diflerent in character — the thin films, the 
internal bands, and the external fringes. When, as in Grimaldi's 
experiment, (since called the phenomena of difi'raction,) a narrow 
slip of card was placed in a very naiTow beam of solar light, dark 
and bright stripes iiarallel to the sides internally marked the whole 
shadow longitudinally, while the external fringes appeared on the 
outside at each edge. The genei'al appearance of the shadow of a 
long narrow body with parallel sides iu a beam of solar light issu- 
ing from a minute hole iu a shutter, or, what is better, the focus of 
a small lens collecting the rays to a point, is that of a shadow marked 
with longitudinal stripes and externally bordered by parallel fringes 
or bands of light slightly colored, as seen in the annexed figure. 

To cxliibit these appearances ordinarily requires ths sun's light. 
But the translator has found a very simple method of exhibiting 
these phenomena on a minute scale by candle liglit.by merely placing 
a fine wire across one surface of a lens of short focus, and looking througli it at light 
admitted through a narrow slit parallel to the wire, or even the flame of a candle at a 
considerable distance. 

Next, as to the theoretical explanation, an inspection of the accompanying diagram 
will perhaps help to convey an idea of the manner in which the several sets of waves 
are formed, and interfere in the case now supposed. 

Young couceived the beam of light as a series of waves propagated onward till, on 
reaching the card; they were broken u}) into two new sets of waves, sjireading in circlea 



124 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 



not exist a siugle point in space where a tbousancl rays of the same 
origin do not proceed to cross one another after reflections more or less 
oblique, and we shall perceive at a glance the whole extent of the unex- 
plored region which interferences open to the investigations of experi- 
menters. 

When Young published this theory, many phenomena of periodical 
colors had been already ottered to the notice of observers, and, we should 
add, had resisted all attem[)ts at explanation. Among the number we 
might instance the colored rings which are formed by reflection, not oi 
thin films, but on mirrors of thick glass slightly concave; the iridesceni 
bands of different breadtl s, with which the shadows of bodies are bor- 
dered on the outside, and in some instances covered within, which Gri- 
maldi first noticed, and which afterward uselessly exercised the genius 
of l^ewton, and of which the completion of the theory was reserved for 
Fresnel ; the bows, colored red and green, which are perceived in greater 
or less number immediately under the innermost of the prismatic bands 
of tbe rainbow,* and which seemed so comi)letely inexplicable that the 
writers of elementary books on physics had given up making mention of 
them; and, lastly, the "coronas," or broad colored circles with varying 
diameters, which often appear surrounding the sun and moon. 

round each edge as a new center, while part of the original set coutinned to pass on at 
cacli side. On the principle just mentioned, these would inierfere with the new por- 
tions on the outside ; and the two new portions would interfere with each other iu the 
inside of the shadow, in either case giving stripes or bands. To complete the proof, 
when an opaque screen was placed so as to intercept the rays on one side, though 





+ b 



alTundance of light was presented on the other, yet all the internal hands immediately 
disappeared, demonstrating that the effect was due solely to the concurrence of the 
light from hoth sides. The bands produced by light admitted through narrow apertures, 
and numerous other phenoniena of the same kind, may receive a general and popular 
explanation in the same way. — Translator. 

* This explanation has been recently controverted by Professor Potter.— Philosophical 
Magazine, May, 1855. 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 125 

If I call to mind how uiauy persons do not appreciate scientific theo- 
ries except in proportion to the immediate applications which they may 
offer, I cannot terminate this ennmeration of the phenomena which 
characterize the several series of more or less nnmerous periodical col- 
ors without mentioning the rings, so remarkable by their regularity of 
form and purity of tint, with which every brilliant light appears sur- 
rounded when we look at it through a mass of fine molecules or fila- 
ments of equal dimensions. These rings, in fact, suggested to Young 
the idea of an instrument, extremel.y simiile, which he called an "eri- 
ometer," and with which we can measure, without difficulty, the dimen- 
sions of the most minute bodies. The eriometer, as yet so little known 
to observers, has an immense advantage over the microscope in giving 
at a single glance the mean magnitude of millions of particles which are 
contained in the field of view. It possesses, moreover, the singular 
property of remaining silent when the particles differ much in magni- 
tude among themselves, or, in other words, when the question of deter- 
mining their dimensions has no real meaning. 

Young applied his eriometer to the measurement of the globules of 
blood in different classes of animals ; to that of powders furnished by 
different species of vegetables ; of the fineness of different kinds of fur 
used in the manufacture of diiferent fabrics, from that of the beaver, 
the most valuable of all, down to that of the common sheep of the Sus- 
sex breed, which stands at the other extremity of the scale, and is com- 
posed of filaments four times and a half thicker than that of the beaver. 

Before the researches of Young the numerous i^henomena of colors* 
which I have just pointed out were not only inexplicable, but nothing 
had been found to connect them with each other. ISTewton, who was 
long engaged on the subject, had not perceived any connection between 
the rings in thin films and the bands of diffraction. Y^uing reduced 
these two kinds of colored bands alike to the law of interference. At 
a later period, when the colored phenomena of polarization had been 
discovered, he observed in certain measures of the thickness at which 
they occurred some remarkable numerical analogies, which made it very 
reasonable to expect that sooner or later this singular kind of polariza- 
tion would be found connected with his doctrine. He had in this in- 
stance, however, w^ must admit, a very wide hiatus to fill up. The 
knowledge of some important properties of light, then comidetely un- 
known, would have been necessary to permit him to conceive the whole 
singularity of the effects which, in certain crystals cut in certain direc- 
tions, double refraction produces by the destruction of light resulting 
from the interference of rays ; but it is to Young that the honor belongs 
of having opened the way; it was he who was the first to decipher 
these hieroglyphics of optics.t 

* Every one may have remarked the threads of a spider's weh occasionally exhibiting 
brilliant colors in the sunshine. The same thing is seen in fine scratches on the surface 
of polished metal, produced in a more regular way by the fine engraved ijarallel 
grooves in Barton's buttons. The colors of mother-of-pearl arc of the same kind ; all 
these colors Dr. Young showed were due to interference of the portions of light reflected 
from the sides of the narrow transparent thread or groove. — Translator. 

t It has been well observed that simplicity is not always a fruit of the first growth, 
and accordingly some of the earliest of Young's researches were complicated by unne- 
cessary conditions. Thus, to exhibit the effect of two rays interfering, he at first not 
imnaturally transmitted the narrow beam of light through two suiall apertures near 
together. In point of fact, though the real cfiect is here seen, it is mixed u]) Avith 
others of a more complex kind. The narrow apertures each exhibited colored fringes 
in addition to the interference stripes seen between them. The colored fringes of aper- 
tures, unless very wide, are distinct from those formed by one external edge of an 
opaque body, the light from each side conspires to the effects in a somewhat complex 



126 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

EGYPTIAN HIEROGLYPHICS — HISTOIiY OF THE FIRST EXACT INTER- 
PRETATION GIVEN OF THEM. 

The word hieroglypliic, regarded not inetai)bysically, but iu its natu- 
ral acceptation, carries us into a field which has been long the theater 
of numerous and animated debates. I have hesitated whether to risk 

maimer. If the apfrture be otherwise than h)iig with parallel sides, the phcuomenon 
becomes still more complex, ami the calculation difficult; few such cases have ever yet 
been solved, and some such cases have been dwelt upon as formidfible objections to 
the theory ; they are simply cases to Avhich the formula, from its mathematical difiti- 
cnlties, has not yet been extended. 

In all these cases of diffraction an opaque body was used, and it might still be sus- 
pected that some action of the edge of that body might be concerned in the result. Nu- 
merous experiments of Maraldi, Dutour, Biot, and others were directed to the investi- 
gation of this point. Biot showed that an opaque body was not necessary, inasnmch 
as the edge of the plate of (/lass, or even the bounding line of two faces of a glass, cut 
■ at a slight inclination to each other, gave the same fringes ; indeed, Newton also had 
noticed something of the kind. Haldat varied the conditions of the edge in every 
conceivable way, whether of form or nature, by the intluence of magnetism, galvan- 
ism, electricity,' or temperature from freezing to a red heat, without ])roducing the 
slio'htest difference iu the fringes — a result which it Avould be impossible to conceive 
compatible with any idea of an atmosphere of attraction or rej)ul8ion surrounding the 
edge. 

Again : Thongh we have given the explanation of the external fringes in its simple 
and correct form, yet both Young and Fresnel failed in the first instance to see it iu 
that light, both believing that the reflection of a portion of rays from the edge of the 
opaque body was mainhj concerned in producing the interference. Subsequent experi- 
ments showed that even in cases where that edge reflects any sensible amount of light, 
its influence on the diffracted fringes is quite inappreciable. In fact, Young, in a let- 
ter to Fresnel, in returning thanks for a copy of a later memoir, in which he had shown 
this supposition to be unnecessary, also concurs in abandoning it. It did but compli- 
cate and injure the beauty of the result, (Young's Works, i, 393;) and every doubt 
nmst have disappeared in the minds of those who compared tlie minute arithmetical 
accuracy with wJiieli the places of the fringes, as computed from the simple theory 
in the investigations of Fresnel, agreed with those actually determined by the nicest 
micrometrical measurments. 

In enumerating the discoveries of Young in the first establishment of the wave 
theory, it is somewhat singular that Arago, whether from accident or design, should 
have overlooked one investigation which must be regarded as among the most important. 
The great support which the emission theory received iu recent times was that derived 
from La]dace's memoir on the law of double refraction, (1809,) iu which, on the prin- 
ciple of '• least action," as maintained by Maupcu-tius and applied to the idea of lumi- 
nous molecules, he explained the observed lavrs of ordinary and extraordinary refrac- 
tion in Iceland spar. This investigation exercised a powerful influence in favor of the 
molecular theory over the minds of the men of science in France, who bowed iinplicitly 
to the authority of Laplace. But the memoir of Laplace was the subject of a very 
powerful attack on the part of Dr. Young, carried on in an article in the Quarterly 
Review, November, 1809, in which ho disputed the mechanical and mathematical 
grounds of Laplace's tiieory, and showed that the same laws of double refraction 
could be far more easily deduced from the undulatory hypothesis. Next to the dis- 
covery of interference, this refutation of the strongest point of the emission theory 
cannot but be regarded as one of the most material in the development and establish- 
ment of the undulatory view. 

To the statement of these various cases of interference it should be added, that when 
the tints of polarized light were discovered, Y'oung in 1814 applied to the phenomena 
the general consideration of interference; that is to say, he showed that, owing to 
the diliering obliquities of the paths of the rays within the crystal, they would 
be unequally retarded in their passage, and would consequently emerge in con- 
ditions, with regard to length of route, respectively of accordance or discordance at 
corresponding distances round the central line or axis of the crystal, and thus might 
give rise to colored rings. Arago, however, soon noticed that the explanation Avae 
incomplete ; the main point, in tact, remained to be accounted for, viz, why we see nol 
colors till the analyser is applied, and why even the previous polarization is necessary 
to the result. It was not until about two years afterward that Arago and Fresno] 
jointly succeeded in discovering a new law, which not only furnished tlu^ complete 
solution of the polarized rings, Imt at length cleared away all the difficulties which, 
from the first, had surrounded the idea of polarization itself. For an account of this 
see memoir of Fresnel. — Translator. 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 127 

offending the feelings wliicli this question has excited. The secretary of 
an academy occupied exchisively with the exact sciences might indeed, 
without impropriety, remit tliis pliilological subject to other more com- 
petent judges. I also feared, I will avow, to hud myself iu disagree- 
ment on several important points with the illustrious uuin of science 
whose labors it has been so delightful to me to analyze, without having 
to add a word of criticism from my pen. All these scruples, however, 
vanish when I reflect tbat the interpretation of hierogly])hics has been 
one of the most beautifnl discoveries of our age ; that Young himself 
has mixed up my name with discussions relating to it ; that to examine 
whether France can pretend to this new title to glory, is to enhance the 
importance of the task confided to me at this moment, and to perform 
the duty of a good citizen. I am aware that some may find narrowness 
in these sentiments. I am not ignorant that the cosmopolitan spirit has 
its good side ; but with what name shall I stigmatize it, if, when all 
neighboring nations enumerate with triumph the discoveries of their 
sons, it should hinder me from seeking, even in the present circle, 
among tbose colleagues whose modesty I would not hurt, the proof that 
France is not degenerate ; that she also adds every year her glorious 
contingent to the vast deposit of human knowledge!* 

I approach, then, the question of Egyptian writing, and I do so free 
from all prejudice, with the firm wish of being just ; with the lively 
desire to conciliate the rival pretensions of two men of science, whose 
premature death has been to all Europe a legitimate subject of regret. 
Lastly,', I shall not in this discussion on hieroglyphics transgress the 
bounds imposed on me ; happy if those who listen to me, and whose 
indulgence I ask, may find that I have known how to escape the infiueuce 
of a subject whose obscurity is proverbial. 

Men have imagined two systems of writing entirely distinct. One is 
that employed by the Chinese, which is the system of hieroglj^phics ; 
the other, at present in use among all other nations, bears the name of 
the alphabetical or phonetic system. 

The Chinese have no letters properly so called : the characters which 
they use in writing are strictly hieroglyphics ; they do not represent 
sounds or articulations, but ideas. Thus a house is represented bj' a 
unique and special character, which does not change even when the 
Chinese have (;ome to call a house, in their spoken language, by a name 
totally difixirent from that which they formerly pronounced. Does this 
result appear surprising? Imagine the case of our ciphers, which are 
also hieroglyphics ; the idea of one added to itself seven times is expressed 
everywhere in France, iu England, in Spain, tfcc, by the aid of two cir- 
cles placed vertically one over the other, and touching iu one point ; but 
in looking at this hieroglyphic sign (8) the Frenchman pronounces •' huit," 
the Englishman "eight,'' the Spaniard "ocho." IsTo oneis ignorant that it 
is the same with compound numbers. Thus, to speak briefly, if the Chinese 
ideographic signs were generally adopted, as the Arabic numerals are, 
every one would read in his own language the works which they pre- 

* In bringing out a part of tliis cliapter oil Egyptian liieroglypliics in the Annuairo 
for 183G, Arago has added : " The iirst exact interpi'etation which has been given of 
Egyptian hieroglyphics will certainly take its i>laco amoiig the most beautiful discov- 
eries of the age. Besides, after the animated debates to which it has given birth, 
every one would desire to know whether France can conscientiously pretend to this new 
title to glory. Thus the importance of the question, and the national self-love ]n-op- 
erly understood, unite in encouraging me to publish the result of a minute examina- 
tion to which I have devoted myself. Can I, then, be blind to the danger which there 
always is in attempting difficult subjects in matters which we have not made th© 
special subject of our studies ? " 



128 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

sented to liim, without the need of knowing a single word of the lan- 
guage spoken by tlie authors Avho i.ave written them. 
It is not so with alphabetical writing. 

" He who first taiiglit ns the injcenious art 

To paiut our words, and speak them to our eyes," 

having made the capital remark that all words of a spoken language, 
even tlie most rich, are compounded of a very limited number of 
elementary articulate sounds, invented artiticial signs or letters to the 
number of twenty-four or thirty to represent them. By the aid of these 
signs diflerently combined he could write every w^ord which struck his 
ear, even without knowing the meaning of it. 

The Chinese or hieroglyphic writing seems to be the infancy of the 
art. It is not always, as has been sometimes said, that to learn to read 
it, even in China, occupies the whole life of a studious Mandarin. Ee- 
musat (whose name I cannot mention without recalling one of the most 
heavj^ losses which literature has lately sustained) has established, both 
by his own experience and by the fact of the excellent scholars he has 
formed every year by his lectures, that we may learn Chinese like any 
other language. It is not true, as was once imagined, that the char- 
acters are apj)ropriated solely to the expression of common ideas ; several 
pages of the romance of Yu-Mao-li., or The Two Cousins, will suffice to 
show that the most subtle abstractions, the quintessence of refinements, 
are not beyond the range of the Chinese writing. The chief fault of this 
mode of writing is, that it gives no means of expressing new names. A 
letter from Canton might have told at Pekin that on the 14th of June, 
1800, a great and memorable battle saved France from great peril ; but 
it would not have been able to express in these purelj^ hieroglyphic char- 
acters that this glorious e^ent took place near the village of Marengo, 
or that the victorious general was called Bonaparte. A people among 
whom the communication of proper names, from one place to another, 
could only take place by means of special messengers, would be, as we 
see, only in the first rudiments of civilization. Tliese preliminary re- 
marks are not useless. The question of priority, which the graphic 
methods of Egypt have called forth, thus comes to be easy to explain and 
to comprehend. As we proceed, in fact, we find in the hieroglyphics of 
the ancient people of the Pharoahs all the artifices of which the Chinese 
make use at the present day. 

Many passages of Herodotus, of Diodorus Siculus, of Clement of Al- 
exandria, have taught us that tlie Egyptians had two or three different 
sorts of writing, and that in one of these, at least, symbolic characters, 
or the representatives of ideas, played a principal part. Horapollon 
has even preserved to us the signification of a certain number of these 
characters. Thus we know that the liawlc designated the soul^ the ihis^ 
the heart; the dove, (which might seem strange,) a violent man; the 
flute, nn alien; the nnmher six, x)Icasure ; i\ frog, aw impudent man; the 
ant, wisdom; a, running Icnot, love ; &c. 

The signs thus preserved by Horapollon form only a very small part 
of the eight or nine hundred characters which have been found in the 
ancient inscriptions. The moderns, Kircher among others, have en- 
deavored to enlarge the number. Their efforts have not given any use- 
ful result, unless it be so to show to what errors even the best-instructed 
men "expose themselves when in the search after facts they abandon 
themselves without restraint to imagination. In the want of data, the 
interpretation of the Egyptian writings appeared for a long time, to all 
sound minds, a problem completely incapable of solution, when, in 1799, 
M. Boussard, an engineer ofiicer, discovered in the excavations which 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 129 

he was making near Eosetta a large stone covered with inscriptions in 
three kinds of characters quite distinct. 

One of the series of chiirocters was Greek. This, in spite of some 
mutihitions, made clearly known that the authors of the monument had 
ordained that the same inscription should be traced in three different 
sorts of characters, viz, in the sacred characters or Egyptian hieroglyph- 
ics, in the local or vulgar characters, and in Greek. Thus, by an unex- 
pected good fortune, the philologists found themselves in possession of 
a Greek text, having also before them its translation into the Egyptian 
language, or at least a transcription in two sorts of characters anciently 
in use on the banks of tlie Isile. 

This Eosetta stone, since so celebrated, and which M. Boussard pre- 
sented to the Institute of Cairo, was taken from that body at the period 
when the French army evacuated Egypt. It was preserved, however, 
in the British Museum, where it figured, as Thomas Young said, as a 
monument of British valor. Putting valor out of the question, the cele- 
brated philosopher might have added, without too much partiality, that 
this invaluable trilingual monument thus bears some witness to the 
advanced views which guided all the details of the memorable expedition 
into Egypt, as also to the indefatigable zeal of the distinguished savants 
whose labors, often carried on nnder the fire of the forts, have added so 
much to the glory of their country. The importance of the Eosetta 
stone struck them, in fact, so forcibly, that, in order not to abandon 
this precious treasure to the adventurous chances of a sea voyage, they 
earnestly applied themselves, from the first, to reproduce it by copies, 
by impressions taken in the way of printing from engravings, by molds 
in plaster or sulphur. We must add that antiquaries of all countries 
became first acquainted with the Eosetta stone from the designs given 
by the French savants. 

One of the most illustrious members of the institute, M. Silvestre de 
Sacy, entered first in 1802 on the career which the trilingual inscription 
opened to the investigations of philologists. He only occupied himself 
on the Egyptian text in common characters. lie there discovered the 
groups which represent the different proper names, and their phonetic 
nature. Thus, in one of two inscriptions, at least, the Egyptians had 
the signs of sounds, or true letters. This important result found no 
opponents after a Swedish man of science, M. Akerblad, in completing 
the labors of our fellow-countryman, had assigned, with a probability 
bordering on certainty, the phonetic value of each of the different char- 
acters employed in the transcription of the proper names which the 
Greek text disclosed. There remained all along the purely hieroglyphic 
part of the inscription, or what was supposed such ; this remained un- 
touched ; no one had ventured to attempt to decipher it. It is here 
that we find Young declaring, as if by a species of inspiration, that in 
the multitude of sculptured signs on the stone representing either entire 
animals, or fantastic forms, or again instruments, products of art, or 
geometrical forms, those of these signs which were found inclosed in 
elliptic borders corresponded to the proper names in the Greek iuscrip- 
tion, in particular to the name of Ptolemy, the only one which in the 
hieroglyi)hic inscription remains uninjured. Immediately afterward 
Young said that in the special case of the border or scroll, the signs 
included represented no longer ideas, but sounds. In a word, he sougijt 
by a minute and refined analysis to assign an individual hieroglyphic 
to each of the sounds which the ear receives in the name of Ptolemy in 
the Eosetta stone, and in that of Berenice in another monument. Thua^ 
•^•e see, unless I mistake, in the researches of Young on the graphic sya- 
9s 



loU EULOGY ON. THOMAS YOUNG. 

tems of the Egyptians, the tliree culmiuating pomts. No one, it is said, 
had pt^rceived them, or at least had ])ointed them out before the Eng- 
lish philosopher. This opinion, althongh generally admitted, appears to 
me open to dispnte. It is, in fact, certain that in 17GC M. de Guignes, 
in a printed memoir, had indicated that the scrolls in Egyptian in- 
scriptions included all the proper names. Every one might also see 
in the same work the arguments on which the learned orientalist relied 
to establish the opinion which he had embraced on the constant pho- 
netic character of the Egyptian hieroglyphics. Young, then, has the 
priority on this point alone. To him belongs the first attempt which 
had been made to decompose in letters the groups of the scrolls, to give 
a iihonetic value to the hieroglyphics which composed in the stone of 
Rosetta the name of Ptolemy. In this research, as we might expect. 
Young furnished new proofs of his immense penetration ; but, mislead 
by a false system, his efforts had not a full success. Thus sometimes 
he attributes to the hieroglyphic characters a value sim])ly alphabetical. 
Further on he gives them a value which is syllabic or dissyllabic, with- 
out being struck by what must seem so strange in this mixture of dif- 
ferent characters. The fragment of an alphabet published by Y^oung 
includes, then, something both of truth and falsehood, but the false 
so much abounds that it would be impossible to apply the value of let- 
ters which compose it to any other reading than that of the two proi^er 
names from which it was derived. The word impossible is so rarely met 
with in the scientific career of Y^oung, that I must hasten to justify it. 
I will say, then, that after the composition of his alphabet Young him- 
self believed that he saw in the scroll of an Egyptian monument the 
name of " Amuoe," where his celebrated competitor had since shown 
with irresistible evidence the word " awtocrator; " that he believed he 
had found " mergetes " in a group where we ought to read '■'■Ccvsar.'''' 

The labors of Ohampollion, as to the discovery of the phonetic value 
of hieroglyphics, are clear, distinct, and cannot involve any doubt. 
Each sign is equivalent to a single vowel or consonant. Its value is 
not arbitrary. Every phonetic hieroglyphic is the image of a physical 
object whose name in the Egyptian language commences with the vowel 
or the consonant which it is wished to represent.* 

The alphabet of Champolliou, once modeled from the stone of Rosetta 
and two or three other moiumients, enables us to read inscriptions en- 
tirely different ; for example, the name of Cleopatra on the obelisk of 
Philoi^, long ago transported into England, and where Dr. Y'oung, 
armed with his alphabet, could discover nothing. On the temple of 
Karnac, Champolliou read twice the name of Alexander; on the Zodiac 
of Denderah, the title of a Roman emperor; on the grand edifice above 
which it is placed, the names and surnames of the emperors Augustus, 
Tiberius, Claudius, Nero, Domitian, «&c. Thus, to speak briefly, we 

* This will become clear to every one, if we seek,- by following the Egyptian system, 
to compose liieroglypbics iu the French language. A may bo represented by (afjnean) 
a lamb, {alglc,) an eagle, an ass, anemone, artichoke, &c. ; B, by a balance, a whale, 
(baleine,) a boat, »Stc. ; C, by cahana, (Mdc/er,) cheml, (horse,) cat, cedar, &c. ; E, by 
dpic, (a sword,) elephant, epagneul, (spaniel,) &c. Abhe, then, would be written in 
French hieroglyphics by putting any of the following figures in succession : A larali, 
a balance, a whale, au elephant ; or an eagle, a boat, a sword, &c. This kind of writ- 
ing has some analogy, as we sec, with the rebus in which confectioners wrap their hon- 
bons. Thus we see at what stage these Egyptian priests were, of whom antiquity has 
so much boasted, but who, we must say, have taught us so little. 

M. Champolliou calls homophones all those signs which, rejiresenting the same sound 
or the same articulation, can be substituted indifferently for each other. In the actual 
state of the Egyptian alphabet I perceive six or seven homophone signs fo'- A and 
more than twelve i^r the Greek sigma. — Arago. 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 131 

find on one hand the lively discussion to which the age of these monu- 
ments had given rise completely terminated ; on the other, we observe 
it established beyond question that under the Eoman dominion hiero- 
glyphics were still in full use on the bauks of the Nile. 

The alphabet which had given such unhoped-for results, whether 
applied to the great obelisks at Karnac, or to other monuments which 
are also recognized as being of the age of the Pharaohs, presents to us 
the names of many other kings of this ancient race ; the names of 
Egyi)tian deities; we can say more, substantives, adjectives, and verbs 
of the Coptic language. Young was then deceived when he regarded 
the i)honetic hieroglyphics as a modern invention ; when he advanced 
that they served solely for the transcription of proper names foreign to 
Egypt. M. de Guignes, and, above all, M. Etieune Quatremere estab- 
lished, on the coutiary, a real fact, and one of great importance — that 
the reading of the inscrii>tions of the Pharaohs is corroborated by irresist- 
ible proofs, while they show that the existing Coptic language was that 
of the ancient subjects of Sesostris. 

We now know the facts. I may, then, confine myself to confirm, by 
a few short observations, the consequences which apjiear to me to result 
from them. 

Discussions of priority, even under the dominion of national preju- 
dices, will have become embittered if they can be reduced to fixed rules ; 
but in certain cases the first idea is everything ; in others, the details offer 
the chief difficulties; sometimes the merit seems to consist less in the 
conception of a theory than in its demonstration. We then infer how 
much the choice of a particular point of view must depend on arbitrary 
conditions; and, lastly, how much influence it will have on the definite 
conclusion. To escape from these embarrassments, 1 have sought an 
example in which the parts respectively played by two rival claimants 
for an invention may be assimilated to those of Champollion and Young, 
and Avhich has, on the other hand, united all opinions. This example, 
1 believe, 1 have found in the interferences, even leaving out of the ques- 
tion, as regards the subject of the hieroglyphics, the quotations from the 
memoir of M. de Guignes. It is as follows : Hooke, in fact, had an- 
nounced, before Dr. Young, that luminous rays interfered, just as the latter 
had asserted, before Champollion, that the Egyptian hieroglyphics are 
sometimes phonetic. Hooke did not prove directly his hypothesis ; the 
l)roof of the phonetic values assigned by Young to different hieroglyphics 
could only rest on readings which had not, as yet, been made, and which 
could not then be made. From want of knowing the composition of 
white light, Hooke had not an exact idea of the nature of interferences, 
as Young on his part deceived himself by an imagined syllabic or dis- 
syllabic value of hieroglyphics. Young, by unanimous consent, is 
regarded as the author of the theory of interferences. Thence, by a 
parity of reasoning which seems to me inevitable, Champollion ought 
to be regarded as the author of the discovery of hieroglyphics. 

I regret not to have sooner thought of this comparison. If, in his 
lifetime, Young had been placed in the alternative of being the origina- 
tor of the doctrine of interferences, leaving the hieroglyphics to Cham- 
pollion, or to keep the hieroglyphics, giving up to Hooke the ingenious 
optical theory, I do not doubt he would have felt obliged to recognize 
the claims of our ilkistrious fellow-countryman. At all events, there 
woidd have remained with him what no one could have contested, the 
right to appear in the history of the memorable discovery of the inter- 
pretation of hieroglyphics in the same relative position as that in which 



132 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

Kepler, Borelli, Hooke, and Wren appeared in tlie history of universal 
gTavitation. 

Note. — We liave here put before onr readers the literal version of 
Arago's statement respecting- the claims of Young in regard to the dis- 
covery of the principle of interpreting the Egyi)tian hieroglyphics. 
Arago's representations have been, as is well known, greatly called in 
question. And thougli he throughout speaks in a tone of marke<l 
courtesy and candor toward Young, yet it is clear that he espouses the 
cause of Champollion with an ardor which many, in this country, believe 
has, in some degree, blinded him to the truth of the case. At any rate, 
in the vivid and highly-colored sketch here presented by M. Arago, the 
reader may need some caution in discriminating the fair share of merit 
which may be claimed by the respective parties engfaged in the inquiry. 
The author's national partialities may very naturally have had some influ- 
ence in biasing his judgment. It is impossible here to enter on details 
of controversy. But both as to the actual amount and accuracy of Dr. 
Young's investigations and the relative claims of M. Champollion, the 
reader may find it desirable to refer to the extended discussion of the 
subject given in Dr. Peacock's Life of Young. Without the pretension, 
or indeed the possibility, of adequately going into this question within 
the limits of such a commentary as can be here given, we shall content 
ourselves with pointing out to the notice of our readers a few of those 
passages in that work in which Dr. Young's claims are powerfully vin- 
dicated. The conclusions turn out such a variety of points of details 
that it would be wholly impracticable to attempt any analysis of them 
in this place. But the result tends to assign a considerably larger share 
of credit in the discovery to Dr. Young than Arago seems disposed to 
allow him. Dr. Peacock's able and elaborate work is doubtless in the 
hands of all those who take any interest in a question so important to 
the a<lvauce of philological and ethnological science as well as to gen- 
eral literature. Yet a slight sketch of the chief points referred to may 
not be useless. 

We may first mention that Dr. Yonng's article " Egypt," in the Sup- 
plement to the Encyclopedia Britannica, published in 1819, contains the 
most comprehensive survey of his labors and conclusions on the subject 
of hierogl^^phic literature up to that date. It does not i)rofess to go into 
those minutiae of critical detail, for which reference must be made to 
his numerous other writings on the subject ; but as a general and popu- 
lar view it will always be consulted with advantage. Nevertheless, the 
reader must always bear in mind that in the statements just given much 
had to be revised, or even reversed, from the improved disclosures of 
his later researches. 

Dr. Peacock has alluded but briefly to the views of Arago, and toward 
the conclusion of the chapter sums up the representation of the case as 
given in the elogc, remarking only that the whole of his j)revious state- 
ments constitute the refutation of it. 

The following extract will show the main claims of Young, insisted on 
by his biographer : 

"It was Dr. Young who first determined, and by no easy process, that 
the rings* on the Ilosetta stone contained the name of Ptolemy. It 
■was Dr. Young who determined that the semicircle and oval, found at 
the end of the second ring, in connection with the former, was expressive 
of the feminine gender 5 and it was Dr. Y^oung who had not only first 

* Certain portions of the hieroglypliical characters are found surrounded by a ring 
•or inclosurc called by the French cartouches. 



EULOGY 0\ THOMAS YOUNG. 133 

suggested that the characters in the ring of Ptolemy were phonetic, but 
had determined, with one very unimportant inaccuracy, the vahies ot 
four of those which were common to the name of Cleopatra, which were 
required to be analyzed. All the principles involved in the discovery 
of an jili»hahet of i)honetic hieroglyphics were uot only distinctly laid 
down but fully exemplified by him ; and it only required the further 
identification of one or two royal names with the rings, which expressed 
them in hieroglyphics, to extend the alphabet already known sufficiently 
to bring eveu uames which were uot already identified under its opera- 
tion." 

Dr. Peacock states that Champollion and Young, while engaged sim- 
ultaneously in the prosecutiou of the researches connected with these 
points, in some instauces had opportunities of personal communication 
with each other. But Champollion enjoyed especial advantages from 
circumstances which placed some of the papyri in his i)ossession, and 
thus enabled him to take i»recedence, in the publication of results ; 
while his competitor, if he had enjoyed the same facilities, would, no 
doubt, have been equally competent to perceive tlie force of the new 
evidence thus adduced, and equally ready to make use of it, even if set- 
ting aside some of his earlier inferences and conjectures. 

Dr. Peacock, after reflecting with much severity on Champollion, ex- 
presses his regret to find so eminent a writer as Chevalier Bunseu^ 
whose remarks are quoted before, (p. 311,) " supporting, by the weight 
of his authoritv, some of the grossest of these misrepresentations," (p. 
337.) 

Dr. Young displayed singular modesty and forbearance in his contro- 
versy with Champollion, treating him throughout with all the respect 
due to his acknowledged eminence, and while mildly reproaching him 
with omitting to give him the due credit for his own share in the re- 
search, yet in no way insinuating that any discreditable motive led to 
the omission. Dr. Peacock, however, thinks a far more stringent tone 
of criticism might have fairly applied ; he takes up tlie cause of Young 
with a less scrupulous zeal, and, though with perfect good temper, yet 
with deeply damaging force of argument and statement of facts, ex- 
l)oses the ver^" unjustifiable nature of Champollion's assumptions, and 
vindicates the claims of Young to his fair and important share in these 
discoveries. He dwells on the tone of assumption in which Champollion 
presents himself to his readers as in exclusive possession of a province 
of which he had long since been the sole conqueror, and regards every 
question raised as to his exclusive rights as an unjustifiable attack to be 
resented and repelled, while he studiously suppresses the dates of the 
successive stages of the discovery, and thus attacks Young on the as- 
sertions made on imperfect knowledge in the earlier stages of his in- 
vestigations with the aid of all his own accumulated information ac- 
quired subsequently', a proceeding the iniquity of which needs only 
stating to stand exposed. As instances of this, it is mentioned that 
Young, in 1816, on the strength of comparatively imperfect information 
then acquired, made some representations respecting the enchorial char 
acters in the Eosetta inscription, and their relation to those employed 
in the funeral rolls. These Champollion criticises and exposes without 
reserve from the more full knowledge he had obtained in 1824, entirely 
passing over Young's own later statement on the same subject, correct- 
ing his former views, and from which even Dr. Peacock considers Cham- 
pollion himself probably derived a large portion of his own knowledge ol 
the subject. Dr. Peacock has collected in one point of view ChamiJol- 
lion's main assertions as representing the state of the case. But he has 



134' EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

shown tliat some of the propositions dwelt upon were, in point of fact, 
never maintained by Dr. Young ; and it was chiefl^^ by his hiter re- 
searches that the erroneous inii)ressions at first entertained, respecting 
the points to whicli they relate, had been corrected and their true na- 
ture established. 

In 1821 Champollion denied altogether the existence of an alphabetic 
element among the hieroglyphics ; but in the following year he 
adopted the whole of Young's principles, and applied them with one 
modification only. The analogy of certain marks in the Chinese hiero- 
glyphics to signify proper names, the principle that the phonetic power 
of the symbol is derived from the initial letter or syllable of the name 
of the object which it represents in the Egyptian language, are among 
the chief of those which he borrows without acknowledgment, or claims 
without regard to their prior announcement by Young. " It would be 
difficult," says Dr. Peacock, " to point out in the history of literature a 
more flagrant example of disingenuous suppression of the real facts 
bearing on an imi^ortaut discovery." — Translatoe. 

MISCELLANEOUS WORKS OF DR. YOUNG. 

The limits i)rescribed do not permit me even to quote the mere titles 
of all the numerous writings which Dr. Young published. Nevertheless 
the public reading of so rich a catalogue would certainly have sufficed 
to establish the celebrity of our colleague. Who would not imagine, in 
fact, that he had before him the register of the labors of several acade- 
mies, and not those of a single individual, on hearing, for instance, the 
following list of titles : 

Memoir ou the Establislimeuts where Iron is wrought. 

Essays on Music aud Painting. 

Remarks on the Habits of Spiders aud the Theory of Fabrioius. 

Ou the Stability of the Arches of Bridges. 

Ou the Atmosphere of the Moon. 

Description of a new Species of Opercularia. 

Mathematical Theory of Epicycloidal Curves. 

Restoration aud Translation of different Greek luscriptious. 

On the Means of Strengthening the Construction of Ships of the Liuo. 

Ou the Plav of the Heart aud of the Arteries in the Phenomena of Circulation. 

Theory of Tides. 

Ou the Diseases of the Chest. 

On the Friction of the Axes of Machines. 

On the Yellow Fever. 

Ou the Calculfttiou of Eclijises. 

Essays ou Grammar, «S:c.* 

CHARACTER OF YOUNG — HIS POSITION AS A PHYSICIAN — HIS ENGAGE- 
MENT ON THE NAUTICAL ALMANAC — HIS DEATH. 

Labors so numerous and varied seem as if they must have required 
the laborious and retired life of that class of men of science, which, to 
say the truth, is beginning to disappear, who from their earliest youth 
separate themselves from their companions to shut themselves up com- 
pletely in their studies. Thomas Young was, on the contrary, what is 
usually called a man of the world. He constantly frequented the best 
society in London. The graces of his wit, the elegance of his manners, 
were amply sufficient to make him remarkable. But when we figure to 
ourselves those numerous assemblies in which fifty different subjects in 



* This list, it should bo borne in mind, is intended by the author merely as a speci- 
men of the vast catalogue which might be made of Young's writings ; the reader will 
find ample details as to his innumerable productions iu Peacock's Life. — Translator. 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 



13fl 



turn are skimmed over in a lew minutes, we may conceive what value 
would be attached to one who was a true living- library, from whom exery 
one could tind, at a moment, an exact, precise, substantial answer on 
all kinds of questions Avhich they could propose to him. Young was 
much occupied with the tine arts. Many of his memoirs testify the pro- 
found knowledge which he had happily acquired of the theory of music. 
He carried out also to a great extent the talent of executijig it ; and 1 
believe it is certain that of all known instruments, even including the 
Scottish bagpipe, only one or two could be named on which he could 
not play. His taste for painting developed itself during a visit which 
he paid to Germany. There the magnificent collection at Dresden ab- 
sorbed his attention entirely ; for he aspired not solely to the easy credit 
of connecting together, without mistake, the name of such or such au 
artist with such or such a painting; the defects and the characteristic 
qualities of the greatest masters, tbeir frequent changes of manner, the 
material objects which they introduced into their works, the modifica- 
tions which those objects and the colors underwent in progress of time, 
among other i)oints, occupied him in succession. Young, in one word, 
studied painting in Saxony as he had before studied languages in his 
own country, and as he afterward studied the sciences. Everything, 
in fact, was a subject of meditation and research. The university 
contemporaries of the illustrious physicist recalled a laughable instance 
of this trait of his mind. They related that entering his room one day, 
when for the first time he had taken a lesson in dancing the minuet, at 
Edinburgh, they found him occupied in tracing out minutely with the 
rule and compasses the route gone through by the two dancers, and the 
different improvements of which these figures seemed to him susceptible. 
Young borrowed with happy effect from the sect of the Friends, to 
which he then belonged, the opinion that the intellectual faculties of 
children differ originally from each other much less than is commonly 
supposed. "Any man can do what any other man has done," became 
his favorite maxim. And further, never did he personally himself recoil 
before trials of any kind to which he wished to subject his system. The 
first time he mounted a horse in company with the grandson of Mr. Bar- 
clay, the horseman who preceded them leaped a high fence. Y'oung 
wished to imitate him, but he fell at ten paces. He remounted without 
saying a word, made a second attempt, was again unseated, but this 
time was not thrown further than on the horse's neck, to Avhicli he 
clung. At the third trial the young learner, as his favorite motto taught, 
succeeded in executing what another had done before him.* This experi- 
ment need not have been referred to here, but that it had been repeated 
at Edinburgh, and afterward at Gottingen, and carried out to a further 
extent beyond what might seem credible. In one of these two cities 
Young soon afterward entered into a trial of skill with a celebrated 
rope-dancer ; in the other, (and in each case the result of a challenge,) 
he ac(iuired the art of executing feats on horseback with remarkable 
skill, even in the midst of consummate artistes, whose feats of agility 
attract every evening such numerous crowds to the circus of Franconi. 
Thus, those who are fond of drawing contrasts may, on the one side, 
represent to themselves the timid Xewton,t nex'er riding in a carriage, 
so much did the fear of being upset preoccupy him, without holding to 

* This anecdote seems at variance with what is stated on the authority of a Cam- 
bridjTe contemporary of Young in Dr. Peacock's Life, (p. 119,) that he only- once there 
attempted to follow the hounds, when a severe fall prevented any further exbibitioua 
of the kind. — TraNSLatoij. 

t This practice has been described as that of Newton's, but the motive assigned by 
Arago is novel. 



136 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

both the tloors with extended arms, aud, on the other, liis distinguished 
rival galloping on the backs of two horses with all the confidence of an 
equestrian by profession. 

In England, a ])hysician, if he does not wish to lose the confidence of 
the public, ought to abstain from occupying himself with any scientific 
or literary research which may be thought foreign to the art of curing 
diseases. Young for a long time did liomage to this prejudice. Ilis 
writings appeared under an anonymous veil. This veil, it is true, was 
very tTansparent. Two consecutive "letters of a certain Latin motto 
served successively in regular order as the signature to each memoir. 
But Youn'^ communicated the three Latin words to all his friends both 
in his own country and abroad, without enjoining secrecy on any one. 

Besides, who would be ignorant that the distinguished author of tlui 
theory of interferences was the foreign secretary of the Eoyal Society 
of London ; that he gave in the theater of the Eoyal Institution a course 
of lectures on mathematical physics -, that, associated with Sir H. Davy, 
he published a journal of the sciences, &c. ? And, moreover, we must say 
that his anonymous disguise was not rigorously observed even in his 
smaller memoirs ; and on important occasions, when, for instance, in 
1807, the two volumes in quarto appeared, of 800 or 900 pages each, in 
which all branches of natural philosophy were treated in a manner so 
new and profound, the self-love of the author made him forget the in- 
terests of the physician, and the name of Young in large letters replaced 
the two small italics, whose series was then terminated, and which 
would have figured in a rather ridiculous manner in the title-page of 
this colossal work. 

Young had not then, as a physician, either in London or at Worthing, 
where he passed tlie sea-bathing season, any extended practice. The 
public found him, in fact, too scientific. We must also avow that his 
public lectures on medicine, those for instance which he delivered at 
St. George's Hospital, were generally but ill-attended. It has been said, 
to explain this, that his lectures were too dry, too full of matter, aud 
that they were beyond the apprehension of ordinary understandings. 
But might not the want of success be rather ascribed to the freedom, 
not very common, with which Young pointed out the inextricable diflS- 
culties which encounter us at every step in the study of the numerous 
disorders of our frail machine I 

Would any one expect at Paris, and especially in an age when every 
one seeks to attain his end quickly and without labor, that a professor 
of the faculty would retain many auditors if he were to commence with 
these words, which I borrow literally from Dr. Young: "No study is 
so complicated as that of medicine ; it exceeds the limits of human in- 
telligence. Those physicians who precipitately go on without trying to 
comprehend what they observe, are often just as much advanced as 
those who give themselves uj) to generalizations hastily made on obser- 
vations in regard to which all analogy is at fault." And if the profes- 
sor, continuing in the same style, should add, " In the lottery of medi- 
cine the chances of the possessor of ten tickets must evidently be greater 
than those of the possessor of five," when they believed themselves en- 
gaged in a lottery, would those of his auditors whom the first phrase 
had not driven away be at all disposed to make any great efforts to 
procure for themselves more tickets, or, to explain the meaning of our 
professor, the greatest amount of knowledge possible °? 

In spite of his knowledge, x)erhaps even from the very cause that it 
was so extensive, ^oung was totally wanting in confidence at the bed- 
side of the j)atieut. Then the mischievous effects which might event- 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. I'd I 

ually result from the action of the medicine, even the most clearly 
called for, presented themselves in a mass to his mind ', seemed to coun- 
terbalance the tavorable chances which might attend the use of them ; 
and thus threw him into a state of indecision, no doubt very natural, 
yet on which the public will always put an unfavorable construction. 
The same timidity showed itself in all the works of Young which treated 
on medical subjects.* This man, so eminently remarkable for the bold- 
ness of his scientific conceptions, gives here no more than a bare enumera- 
tion of facts. He seems hardly convinced of the soundness of his 
thesis, either when he attacks the celebrated Dr. Eadclift'e, whose whole 
secret in the most brilliant and successful practice was, as he has him- 
self said, to employ remedies exactly the reverse of the usual way ; or 
when he combats Dr. Brown, who found himself, as he says, in the dis- 
agreeable necessity of recognizing, and that in accordance with the offi- 
cial documents of an hospital, attended by the most eminent physicians, 
that, on the average, fevers left to their natural course are neither more 
severe nor of longer duration than those treated by the best methods. 

In 1818 Young, having been named secretary to the Board of Longi- 
tude, abandoned entirely the practice of medicine to give himself up to 
the close superintendence of the celebrated periodical work known 
under the name of the Nautical Almanac. From this date the Journal 
of the Royal Institution gave every quarter his numerous dissertations 
on the most important problems of navigation and astronomy. A vol- 
ume entitled " Illustration of the Mecanique Celeste of Laplace," a scien- 
tific discussion on the tides, amply attested that Young did not consider 
the employment he had accepted as a sinecure. This employment be- 
came, nevertheless, to him a source of unceasing disgiist. The Xautical 
Almanac had always been, from its commencement, a work exclusively 
destined to the service of the navy. Some persons demanded that it 
ought to be made, besides, a complete astronomical ephemeris. The 
Board of Longitude, whether right or wrong, not having shown itself a 
strong partisan of the projected change, found itself suddenly the object 
of the most violent attacks. The journals of every party, whig or tory, 
took i)art in the conflict. 

We were no longer to view it as a union of such men as Davy, Wol- 
laston. Young, Herschel, Kater, and Pond, but an assembly of individ- 
uals (I quote the words) "who obeyed a Boeotian influence." The 
Nautical Almanac, hitherto so renowned, was now declared to have be- 
come an object of shame to the English nation. If an error of the 
press was discovered, such as there must be in any collection of figures 
at all voluminous, the British navy, from the smallest bark up to the 
colossal three-decker, misled by an incorrect figiu-e, would all together 
be engulfed in the ocean, &c. 

It has been pretended that the principal promoter of these foolish 
exaggerations did not perceive such foolish errors in the Nautical 
Almanac until after he had unsuccessfully attempted himself to obtain 
a place in the Board of Longitude. I know not whether the fact was 
so. In any case, I would not make myself the echo of the malicious 
commentaries to which it gave rise. I ought not to forget, in fact, that 

*This timidity in medical speculation is entirely borne out by the tenor of Young's 
intellectual character, as exhibited in such forcible lineaments in the portrait iiresent^'d 
to us l)y Dr. Peacock. His mind was essentially cast in a matter-of-fact, positive, demon- 
strative nu)ld ; hence all subjects of abstract or doubtful inquiry, in which probabilitiep 
alone could be estimated, or when the conclusions were to be the result of moral dis- 
crimination, were utterly uusuited to him. His medical character has bc^n viewed, 
however, in a much higher light by Dr. Peacock, who has sought to combat the un- 
favorable impressions here advanced. (See esj)ecially pp. 213, 222.) — Translaxor, 



138 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

for mauy years past that member of the Royal Society to whom I allude 
has uobly devoted a part of his lar^e fortune to the advancement of 
science. This commendable astronomer, like all men of science whose 
thoughts are concentrated on one sole object, fell into the error, which 
1 do not pretend to excuse, of measurhig- through a magnifyiug-glass 
the importance of the projects he had conceived. But that with which, 
above all, he must be reproached is, that he did not foresee that the 
hyperbolic language of his attacks would be taken literally ; that he 
forgot that at all epochs and in all countries there are a great number 
of persons who, having nothing to console them for their littleness, seize 
as a prey on all occasions of scandal, and, under the mask of zeal for 
the public good, enjoy the delight of being ignoble defamers of those of 
their contemporaries whose success has been proclaimed by fame. In 
Eome, he whose oflice it was to insult the triumphant conqueror was 
altogether a slave ; in London it was a member of the House of Com- 
mons from whom the men of science received a cruel affront. An orator 
notorious for his prejudices, but who had hitherto vented his bitterness 
only against productions of French origin, attacked the most celebrated 
names in England, and retailed against them, in open Parliament, 
puerile accusations with a laughable gravity. Ministers, whose elo- 
quence was exercised for hours on the privileges of a rotten borough, 
did not pronounce a single word in favor of genius. The Board ot 
Longitude was suppressed without opposition. The next day, it is true, 
the wants of an innumerable marine service made their imperative voice 
heard, and one of the men of science who had been displaced, the former 
secretary of the board. Dr. Young, found himself recalled to his old 
labors. Paltry reparation ! Would the man of science feel less the 
separation from his illustrious colleagues 1 Would the man of feeling 
less perceive that the noble fruits of human intellect were subjected to 
tariff by the representatives of the country, in pounds, shillings, and 
lience, like sugar, pepper, or cinnamon ? 

The health of our colleague, which had already become somewhat 
precarious, declined from this sad epoch with fearful rapidity. Skillful 
physicians, by whom he was attended, soon lost hope. Young himself 
had a consciousness that his end was approaching, and saw it come with 
an admirable calmness. Until his last hour he occupied himself with- 
out intermission on an Egyptian dictionary then in the press, and which 
was not published till after his death. AYlien his powers did not permit 
him any longer to sit up or to employ a pen, he corrected the proofs 
with a pencil. One of the last acts of his life was to exact the sup- 
pression of a small publication written with talent by a friendly hand, 
and directed against all those who had contributed to the destruction of 
the Board of Longitude.* Young died surrounded by a family by w^hom 

* The whole account of the transactions connected with the abolition of the Board 
of Longitude must be I'eceived with some qualification. Arago writes on the subject 
in his usual vehement tone, and in the feeling in which the whole aft'air would 
naturally be viewed bj'^ a* foreigner perhaps not intimately acquainted Avith the 
minute points of the case, and the somewhat different relative position occupied by 
the parties in England to that in which they might stand in France. It may be right 
very briefly to point out a few particulars in the case, which are necessary for forming 
a correct imx^ression of it. The Board of Longitude, originally instituted, as its name 
implied, for one specific object, which it was considered had been sufficiently attained, 
was, in 1818, remodeled by act of Parliament, when Dr. Young was appointed secre- 
tary to the board and superintendent of the Nautical Almanac. The late Mr. F. Baily, 
whose eminence in astronomical science may ])erhaps be dated from that event, 
strongly pointed out the numerous defects of the Nantical Almanac. This led to some 
controversy of rather a sharp nature between himself and Dr. Young, who defended 
-the existing system. Other astronomers joined in the desire for these and even more 



I 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 139 

he was adored, May 10, 1820, barely at the age of fifty-six. Examiua- 
tioii showed that he suffered from ossification of the aorta. 

I liave not dwelt too loug on the task iuiijosed ou me if I have brought 
out, as I wished to do, the importance and novelty of the admirable law 

extensive improvements, all which (with one slight coucession) were steadily opposed 
by I>r. Yonug. Among these advocates for reform were several members of the board 
itself, who nrged them at its meetings. There was also a very prevalent impression, 
even among its own members, that the board was not well constituted, and might 
have been capable of much better service to the nation if its functions were less re- 
stricted and the selection of its members placed on a belter footing. In other quar- 
ters impressions unfavorable to its utility were prevalent, and it can hardly be matter 
of surprise that, when the board was itself divided in opinion, the pu1)lic or the legis- 
lature should entertain doubts of its utility, or even hostile feelings toward it. What 
were the precise notions of the government, or the machinations by which they were 
iuHueuced, it is impossible to say ; but it is certain that, in 1828, chietly through the 
intlueuce of Mr. Croker, its dissolution was determined upon and carried by act of 
Parliament Avithout any opposition being attempted. Instead, however, of an enlarged 
board, with increased i^owers, three scientific advisersof the admiralty were appointed, 
of whom Dr. Young was one, retaining the superintendence of the Nautical Almanac — 
a system which has been since remodeled, in accordance with the report of a committee 
ap])oiuted out of the Astronomical Society. 

l)r. Young appears all along to have been affected only by the personal acrimony of 
some of the attacks upon himself in relation to the editorship of tlie Nautical Almanac, 
and not at all by any feeling for the Board of Longitude, as Arago would regard it. 
That board, as already observed, was divided against itself, and it therefore fell. It 
was never upheld on the only right ground. Neither the board nor the friends of 
science suiJiciently urged the strong and Irresistible claims which they might have 
preferred to the government of the country, that '' a council of science," with extendeil 
powers, properly selected and adequately remunerated, would be the api)ro])riate ad- 
junct of the government of a country all whose resources are so powerfully developed 
in exclusive dependence on the applications of science. 

The government would thus have had the means of sound scientific advice con- 
stantly at hand, of which exi>erience proves they are in daily want on every emer- 
gency, and which they obtain by asking the gratuitous services of men of science, and 
the Crown would have possessed the means of making a graceful acknowledgment of 
the services, and paying a just tribute to the genius of men devoted to the higher 
branches of the abstract sciences, which are of a nature incapable of themselves of 
affording any kind of remuneration, or, in the ordinary course, leading to any of those 
houors or preferments which await eminence in other professions. — Translator. 

The reader may be referred, lor details of the questions here considered, to the fol- 
lowing documents : 

1. '"Astronomical Tables and Remarks for 1822 ; published December, 1821," by F. 
Baily, esc]., with " Remarks ou the present defective state of the Nautical Almanac." 

2. A reply to these remarks appeared in Mr. Braude's Quarterlv Journal of Science, 
April, 1822." (Attributed to Dr. Young.) 

3. Practical observations ou the Nautical Almanac, &c., by James South, F. R. S., 
1822. 

4. Replj^ to a letter in the Morning Chronicle relative to the government and astro- 
nomical science, &c., by the same. 1829. 

5. Refutation of misstatements, &c., in a paper presented to the admiralty by Dr. T. 
Young, and x»rinted by order of the House of Commons, by the same. 1829. 

6. Further remarks on the present defective state of the Nautical Almanac, &c., by 
F. Baily, esq., F. R. S., &c. 1829. 

7. Report of the committee of the Astronomical Society relative to the improvement 
of the Nautical Almanac, adopted by the council of the society, and approved and 
ordered to be carried into effect by the lords commissioners of the admiraltj', 1»30. 
(Meruoirs of the Astronomical Society, vol. iv, ji. 447.) 

8. A motion was made in the House of Commons February 23, 1829, for certain 
returns respecting the Board of Longitude and the Nautical Almanac, &c. The re- 
turns were made and printed, consisting of: 1. A memorandum of a statem(?^it made 
to the chancellor of the exchequer for reforming the Nautical Almanac and estab- 
lishment of a new Board of Longitude. 2. A paper read at the board by J. Herschel, 
esq. 3. A reijort ou a memorandum, &c., by Tliomas Young, M. D. In the last. Dr. 
Young makes auswer to what he considers objectious raised in the " Memorandum," and 
also replies to tbose of Mr. Baily and Mr. South. Sir J. Soulh's pamphlet contains 
tlie Memorandum, the objections raised or inferred by Dr. Young, his replies to them ; 
all which are severely criticised. At page GO is a curious account of some discussions 
at Sir H. Davy's soiree, between Sir J. South and Dr. Young. 



140 EULOGY OX THOMAS YOUNG. 

of interferences. Young is now placed before yoiireyes as one of the 
most illustrious men of science, in whom England may justly take pride. 
Your thoughts, anticipating my words, may perhaps perceive already, 
in the recital of the Just honors shown to the author of so beautiful a 
discovery, the peroration of this historical notice. These anticipations, 
1 regret to say, will not be realized. The death of Young has in his own 
country created very little sensation. The doors of Westminster* Ab- 
bey, so easily accessible to titled mediocrity, remained shut upon a man 
of genius, wlio was not even a baronet. It was in the villag^e of Faru- 
bbrough, in the modest tomb of the family of his wife, that the remains of 
Thomas Young were deposited. The indiiierence of the English nation 
for those scientific labors which ought to add so much to its glory is a rare 
anomaly, of which it would be curious to trace the causes. I should be 
Avautiug in frankness, I should be the panegyrist, not the historian, if I 
did not avow that, in general. Young did not sufficiently accommodate 
himself to the capacity of his readers; that the greater part of the writ- 
ings for which the sciences are indebted to him are jxistly chargeable 
with a certain obscurity. But the neglect to which they were long con- 
signed did not depend solely on this cause. 

The exact sciences have an advantage over the works of art or imagi- 
nation which has often been pointed out. The truths of which they 
consist remain constant through ages without suifering in any respect 
from the caprices of fashion or the decline of taste; but thus, when 
once these researches rise into more elevated regions of thought, on how 
many competent judges of their merits can we reckon? When Eichelieu 
let loose against the great Corneille a crowd of that class of men whom 
envy of the merit of others renders furious, the Parisians vehemently 
hissed the partisans of the despot cardinal, and applauded the poet. 
This reparation is denied to the geometer, the astronomer, or the physi- 
cist who cultivates the highest parts of science. Those who even com- 
petently appreciate them throughout the whole extent of Europe never 
rise above the number of eight or ten. Imagine these unjust, indifterent, 
or even jealous, (for I suppose that may sometimes be the case,) and the 
public, reduced to believe on hearsay, would be ignorant that D'Alem- 
bert had connected the great phenomenon of precession of equinoxes 
with the principle of universal gravitation; that Lagrange had arrived 
at the discovery of the physical cause of the libration of the moon; 
that since the researches of Laplace, the acceleration of the motion ot 
that luminary is found to be connected with a particular change in the 
form of the earth's orbit, &c. The journals of science, when they are 
edited by men of recognized merit, thus acquire, on certain subjects, 
an influence which sometimes becomes fatal. It is thus, I conceive, that 
we may describe the influence which the Edinburgh Keview has some- 
times exercised. Among the contributors to that celebrated journal at 
its commencement, a young writer was eminently distinguished, in whom 
the discoveries of Newton had inspired an ardent admiration. This 
sentiment, so natural, so legitimate, unfortunately led him to miscon- 
ceive the plausible, ingenious, and fertile character of the doctrine of 
interferences. The author of this theory had not, perhaps, always taken 
care to clothe his decisions, his statements, his critiques, with those 
more polished forms of expression the claims of which ought never to 

* The frequenters of Poet's Corner need not be reminded that literature and science 
are not exchided trom their share of funereal honors in Westminster Abbey. M. Arago 
here, as in some other passages, may naturally be a little incorrect in referring to 
national usages. Tiie delay which occurred in regard to Young's monument is, how- 
ever, not fully explained by Dean Peacock. (See Life of Young, p. 4b5.) — Traxsl.atok. 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 141 

be neglected, and which, moreover, became a matter of imperative dnty 
when the question referred to the immortal author of the Natural Phi- 
losophy,* (the Frinciinaf) The pcDalty of retaliation was applied to him 

* It seems impossible to make this sentence intelligible, nnless Tve suppose the " im- 
luortal author " spoken of to be Newton, and by consequence that the title Natural Philos- 
opln/ was a slip of the writer's pen for Frincipia. Yet the stipposition that the hostility 
of the Edinburgh lleview was at all called forth by any want of courtesy toward New- 
Ton in the writings of Young is wholly unsupported by anything in Young's papers, 
in which he cites the views of Newton with the greatest respect. — Tr^vnslator. 

Xewton's support of the emission theori/ of light. — The authority of names can never bo 
of any avail to the truly inductive philosopher; his motto is emphatically "ji!(//;HS r« 
verba." But there has been alwaj'S a pi"opensity among writers on the subject to dwell 
on such authority, and to array great names on either side of any of those controverted 
points which have divided the scientific worhl. Perhajis, where the question is purely 
one of opinion, and refers simply to hypotheses upheld for what they are worth as 
such, the weight of a name may not be unworthy of due estimation : great experience 
and high genius may add value to a pure hi/pothesis, though it could not to a positive 
<onclusioii . In regard to theories of light tJais has l)een conspicuously exemplitied, and 
during a long continuance of controversial discussion it has been a matter of triumph 
to the opponents of the nndulatory the(n-y that the authority of Newton is on their 
side. And even Arago, as well as some other supporters of it, have spoken as if regret- 
ting that they were thus constrained to put themselves in antagonism to Newton. 
They have pictured two rival theories, the one headed by Newton and supported by 
Laplace, Biot, Brewster, and Potter; the other uplield in opposition to thembyHuy- 
gliens, Hooke, Euler, Fresnel, Young, Airy, and all the Cambridge school. 

But a very slight inquiry into the real facts entirely dispels this view of the case. In 
particular. Dr. Young himself, in projiosiug his iheory, so far from opiiosing the Newto- 
nian views, expressly endeavors to conciliate attention l)y claiming the weight of New- 
ton's anthority on his own side; thus, in his paper "On the theory of light and colors," 
(Phil. Trans., 1801,) he commences by highly extolling the optical researches of New- 
ton, and then observes, " Those who are attached, as they may be, with the greatest 
justice, to every doctrine which is stamped with the Newtonian approbation, will proba- 
idy be disposed to bestow on these considerations (i. e., his own views) so much the 
more of their attention as they shall appear to coincide more nearly with Newton's 
opinion." He then proceeds to examine in detail a number of passages from Newton's 
writings, in which the theory of waves is distinctly upheld and even applied with some 
precision to the explanation of various phenomena of light, illustrated by their analo- 
gies to those of sound. 

It is perfectly true that Newton, in the actual investigation of several phenomena of 
light, adopts other hypotheses than those of waves, and chiefly the idea of light 
(whatever may be its nature) being subject to certain attractions and repulsions, to 
certain bendiugs when approaching near the edges of solid bodies, to certain peculiar 
modifications or changes in its nature recurring periodically at certain minute inter- 
vals along the length of a ray, to the idea of a ray having "sides" endued with dif- 
ferent properties ; in a word, a variety of conceptions which he introduces for the pur- 
pose of giving some kind of imaginary physical representation of the modus operandi in 
eacli of the several curious experimental cases which he had examined. In all these 
There is no unity or community of principle ; there is at least nothing like the spirit of 
theory, no continual recurrence to one leading idea, no perpetual a])peal to any one 
principle, however imaginary, but an attemptin each isolated case to frame something 
like an isolated hypotliesis to suit it, and in some way to represent its phenomena, 
though without any attempt to connect them with the others. It may perhaps be said 
that all the.se various suppositions agree in supposing light to be matcrud, to be some- 
thing emitted from the luminous source. But on a closer examination it seems far 
from certain that even this can be maintained. The only part of these investigations, 
])erhaps,in which anything very positive of this kind is distinctly introduced, is when 
Newton investigates the laws of refraction on the express supposition of small mole- 
cules attracted by the molecules of the medium. But in this instance it has been truly 
observed tliat, at the time when Newton wrote, no mathematical method existed by 
which this kind of action could be reduced to calculation, except those involving the 
action of attractive force. To give, then, a mathematical theory of ordinary reflection 
and refraction, he was necessitated to make use of this method. When ho came to in- 
vestigate those more recondite phenomena which he (very appi'opriately to their «j;- 
j7«re)J^ nature) called " inflecti(m," the idea most naturally and obviously presented was, 
that some power or influence, analogous to attraction and repulsion, existing in the 
edge of an opaque body to bend out of their course rays passing very rear it, and this 
might seem to imply the materiality of those rays. A^kind of alternating action of this 
sort, which he imagined necessary to account for a part of theefiect, would, however, 
hardly be reconcilable to the idea of direct emission. It would be a difficult matter 



1 1 2 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

witli interest; the Edinburgh Eeview attacked the man of erudition, 
the writer, the geometer, the experimenter, with a vehemence, with a 
severity ot expression, almost without example in scientific discussion. 
The public usually keep on their guard when such violent language is 
addressed to them ; but in this instance they adopted, at the first ouset, 
the opinions of the journalist, in w^hich we cannot fairlj' accuse them of in- 
considerateness. The journalist, in fact, was not one of those unfledged 
critics whose mission is not justified by any pievious study of the sub- 
ject. Several good papers, received by the Royal Society, had attested 
his mathematical knowledge, and had assigned him a distinguished 
place among the physicists to whom optical science was indebted; the 
profession of the bar in London had acknowledged him one of its shin- 
ing luminaries; the whig section of the House of Commons saw in him 
an efficient orator, who, in parliamentary struggles, was often the happy 
antagonist of Canning. This was the future president of the House of 
Peers — the present lord chancellor^* How could opposition be offered 
to unjust criticisms proceeding from so high a quarter? I am not igno- 
rant what firmness some minds enjoy in the consciousness of their being 
in the right, in the certainty that sooner or later truth will triumph ; 
but I know, also, that we shall act wisely in not reckoning too much on 
such exceptions. Listen, for exami^le, to Galileo himself, repeating in 
a whisper, after his abjuration, "^ pur si muove!^^ and do not seek in 
these immortal words an augury for the future, for they are but the ex- 
pression of the cruel vexation which the illustrious old man experienced. 
Young, also, in writing a few pages which he published as an answer to 
the Edinburgh Eeview, showed, himself deeply discouraged. The 
vivacity, the vehemence of his expressions, ill concealed the sentiment 
which oppressed him. In a word, let ns hasten to say that justice, com- 
plete justice, was at length rendered to the great physicist. After sev- 
eral years the whole world recognized in him one of the brightest lumi- 

to conceive particles darted through space with such inconceivable velocity as must 
belong to those of light, and yet stopping to wave about, in and out, as Newton ex- 
presses it, " like an eel," close to the edge of a body, by virtue of some mysterious in- 
fluence which it exercises upon them. 

Again : the theory of those alternating states, conditions, or " fits," as he termed 
them, at such minute intervals along the length of ray, alternately putting it in a state 
to be reflected, and again to be transmitted by a transparent medium, seem very remote 
from the idea of a single rectilinear progress of molecules through space following one 
another at immense intervals of distance, though in inconceivably rapid succession in 
time. It would be easy to extend such remarks ; but it will probably be seen, with 
sufficient evidence for our present purpose, that neither in profession nor in fact can 
Newton's name be appealed to as at all an exclusive supporter of the material hypoth- 
esis of light, even if in other passages he had not distinctly referred to that of undu- 
lations ; and of these references a large number are quoted from difierent portions of 
his writings by Dr. Young in the paper above cited. In some of these, while he ad- 
mits the readiness with which the idea of waves represents the phenomena, he yet 
dwells on certain apparent objections which seemed to invalidate that idea. 

Upon the whole, it appears that the name of Newton can in no way be legitimately 
claimed as a partisan of either theory. Indeed, it is surprising that any claim of the 
kind could have been set up as regards the emission theory, after his own distinct 
avowal : 

'"Tis true, that from theory I argue the corporeity of light ; but I do it without any 
absolute jjositiveness, as the word ' perhaps ' intimates ; and make it at most but a very 
plausible consequence of the doctrine, and not a fundamental supposition, nor so much 
as any part of it."— (Phil. Trans., vol. x, 1675, p. 5086.) 

While in respect to either hypothesis, it is sufficiently evident to those acquainted 
with his writings that he never s^sfema/Zcrt?/)/ upheld either the one or the other; but 
from time to time, as each particular investigation seemed to require, he adojited the 
one or the other principle, just as it seemed to give the more ready exiflanation of the 
point before him. — Translator. 

* Lord Brougham, who held that office when this biography was written. 



EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 143 

naries of the age. It is from France (and Young took pleasure in him- 
self proclaiming it) that the tirst sign of this tardy reparation showed 
itself. I will add that, at an epoch considerably before the doctrine of in- 
terferences had made converts either in England or on the Continent, 
Young found within his own family circle one who comjirehended it, 
and whose assent to it might well console him for the neglect of the 
public. The distinguished jierson whom I here point out to the notice 
of the physicists of Europe will excuse me if I.comj)lete diis indiscre- 
tion by stating the circumstances. In the year 1810 I made a tour Id 
England with my scientific friend, M. Gay-Lussac. Fresnel had just 
then entered on his scientific career in the most brilliant manner by the 
publication of his memoir on diffraction. This work, which, in our opin- 
ion, contained a capital experiment irreconcilable with the Kewtoniap 
theory of light, became naturally the first subject of our discussion with 
Dr. Young. We were astonished at the numerous qualifications which 
he put upon our praises of it, until at length he stated to us that the very 
experiment which we so much commended had been published, so long 
since as 1807, in his treatise on Natural Philosophy. This assertion did 
not seem to us well founded. It caused a long and minute discussion, 
Mrs. Young was present, without appearing to take any part in the con- 
versation ; but we imagined that the weak fear of being designated by 
the ridiculous sobriquet of has-hJeu rendered the ladies of England very 
reserved in the presence of foreigners, and our want of discernment did 
not strike us till the moment when Mrs. Young quickly quitted her place; 
we then began to attempt excuses to her husband, until we saw her re- 
enter the room carrying under her arm a large quarto volume. This 
was the first volume of the Natural Philosophy. She placed it on the 
table, and without saying a word opened it at page 787, and pointed with 
her finger to a diagram in which the curvilinear route of the diffracted 
bands, on which the discussion turned, was theoretically established. 

I trust I shall be pardoned these little details. Too numerous exam- 
ples may almost have habituated the j)ublic to consider destitution, in- 
justice, i^ersecution, and misery as the natural wages of those who devote 
their vigils to the development of the human mind. Let us not, then, 
forget to point out the exceptions whenever they present themselves. 
If we wish that youth should give itself up with ardor to intellectual 
labors, let us show them that the glory attached to great discoveries 
allies itself, sometimes at least, with some degree of tranquillity and 
hapi)iness. Let us even withdraw, if it be possible, from the history of 
science so many pages which tarnish its glory. Let us try to persuade 
ourselves that in the dungeons of the inquisitors a friendly voice had 
caused Galileo to hear some of the delightful expressions which posterity 
has kept sacred for his memory; that behind the thick walls of the 
Bastile, Freret might yet have learned from the world of science the 
glorious rank which it had reserved for him among the men of erudition, 
whom France honors; that before going to die in a hospital, Borelli 
had found sometimes in the city of Home a shelter against the inclem- 
ency of the atmosphere, and a little straw on which to lay his head ; 
and, lastly, that the great Kepler had not experienced the sufferings of 
hunger. 

Note by the Author. — The journals having done me the honor to 
mention sometimes the numerous testimonies of good-will and friend- 
shiji which Lord Brougham had shown me in 1831, as well in Scotland 
as in Paris, a word or two of explanation here seems indispensable. 
The eloge of Dr. Young was read at a public sitting of the Academy of 
Sciences, November 20, 1832. At this period I had never had any per- 



144 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 

sonal acquaintance wrth the writer in the Edinburgh Review, and thus 
all charge of ingratitude must fall to the ground. But could you not, 
some might perhaps say, have suppressed entirely, when your joaper was 
going to the press, all that related to so unfortunate a controversy '? I 
could have done so, and in fact the idea had occurred to me; but I soou 
renounced it. I know too well the elevated feelings of my illustrious 
friend to fear that he will take ofiense at ray frankness in regard to 
a question on which I have profound conviction that the great extent ot 
his genius has not preserved him from error. The homage which I 
render to the noble character of Lord Brougham, in now publishing this 
passage of the eloge of Young without any modification, is, in my mind, 
sufficiently significant to render it needless to add a word more. 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.* 



By M. Elie De Beaumont, 
Perpetual Secretary of the French Academy of Sciences. 



[^Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by C. A. Alexander.'} 

One of the highest gifts of the human intellect is to lift itself to the 
contemplation of the future ; to enjoy in advance the benefits which it 
prej)aies for the after-races of mankind ; to feel itself alreadj' recom- 
pensed for long and laborious eflbrts by the thought that a measure of 
glory will, some day, encircle a name which is still unknown. 

It is your noble privilege, members of the Academy, to pay this tribute 
of the future ; to discharge by anticipation the debt bequeathed to 
posterity, especially in the case of those whom an untimely death has 
i:»recluded from the enjoyment of their success; and when a savant, 
prematurely snatched away from his studies, leaves works as yet but 
little known, though well worthy of being so, works deprived of the 
brilliant retinue with which he would in good time have surrounded 
them, these are orphans the guardianshii) of which peculiarly belongs 
to you. Such are the motives which have determined your administra- 
tive committee to call your attention to-day to a colleagiie who, struck 
down in your ranks almost at the moment when he had just entered 
them, will leave in several branches of the sciences ineffaceable traces 
through the labors by which he had earned your suffrages. 

Auguste Bravais was born August 23, 1811, at Annonay, in the de- 
partment of Ardeche. His paternal family sprang from the neighboring- 
town of Saint-Peray, where it had enjoyed for several centuries the con- 
sideration and esteem which have, in all ages, been associated with long 
traditions of honor and loyalty. His father, born in 17G4, had completed 
his scientific studies at Montpellier, where he had been preparator for 
the chemical courses of Chaptal, and had received the degree of doctor 
of medicine in 1790. Devoted to natural history, he had successively 
solicited permission to take part in the two expeditions sent in 1791 and 
1792 in search of La Perouse, but had been stopped by different obsta- 
cles, and finally by the opposition of his family, alarmed at the first 
symptoms of the Revolution, by which, like so many others, it was se- 
verely tried. AYhen tranquillity reappeared Dr. liravais established 
himself at Annonay, a small town picturesquely situated at the entrance 
of one of the gorges of the Vivarais, known for its manufactures of 
paper and for having been the country of the celebrated IMontgolfier. 
Here he was soon recognized as an excellent practitioner, and for forty 
years exercised gratuitously the functions of physician of the hospital. 
With his devotion to the sick and to the welfare of his fellow-citizens 
was always allied in Dr. Bravais an enthusiastic love of botany. He 
undertook a flora of the Cevennes and Alps, and maintained a constant 
correspondence and commerce of exchanges with the most distinguished 
botanists of Paris and Montpellier. It was in this way that he received 

* Read at the annual public sitting of the Gth Fel>ruary, 1865. 



146 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

one day the seeds of the Dahlia, a plant then new to Europe, and to him 
is due the introduction of that tine flower into the center of France. 

Dr. Bravais had become one of the most considerable men of Auno- 
nay, when he espoused, early in the century, an estimable member of 
the ancient and noble family of Thome, which had given counsellors to 
the parliaments of Paris and Grenoble and a lieutenant general to the 
armies of the King. A few years saw him surrounded with a family of 
four sons and a daughter, of whom the youngest of the sons was our 
future colleague, Auguste Bravais. Their mother died shortly after the 
birth of her daughter, and neither she nor the little Auguste could re- 
member having seen her. Feeling the approach of death, the thoughts 
of Madame Bravais dwelt chiefly on her children, and having long re- 
marked the piety and pure sentiments of one of the female members of 
her household, she drew from this person a promise not to quit them. 
Never was confidence better bestowed. The excellent creature remained 
forty years in the house, and from her the two infants yet in the cradle 
received, with the maternal care demanded by their age, those first im- 
pressions of childhood which are never eflaced. The rai)id development 
of their intelligence reflected honor on hers. At the age of three years 
Auguste could read, without its being well known how he had learned 
to do so, and there was for him no greater enjoyment than to gather with 
his sister the flowers, the pebbles, the insects of brilliant colors, which 
attracted notice in their rambles ; these were the toys of their childish 
years. 

They were soon capable of following the excursions of their elder 
brothers, whom they had seen bringing back every day objects which 
stimulated their curiosity. When his occupations permitted. Dr. Bra- 
vais himself conducted these explorations. It was a touching tableau, 
that of this young family herborizing, classifying plants, insects, min- 
erals, under the eye and direction of its head, at once father and pro- 
fessor, whose soul, profoundly religious, habitually lifted that of the 
youthful naturalists to the Author of creation. His mind, at once acute 
and playful, was well qualified to render attractive the explanations sug- 
gested to him by the collections of the day, with which he fre(iuently 
mingled classic citations suited to stimulate his children in their studies ; 
for it was his good fortune to have himself received, among the Orato- 
■rians, a solid iustruction which contributed to the happiness of his life 
and linally conferred consolation on his honored and serene ohi age. 

The memory of this man of worth is still held in veneration at An- 
nonay, where more than one of its workmen may even now be seen in- 
stinctively to raise his hat on passing before his uninhabited mansion, 
nis children, while following their different tendencies, preserved the 
impressions of their first education. Auguste manifested in good sea- 
son a turn for observation, and a decided inclination ibr indulging it. 
When yet a child, he was attentive to atmospheric phenomena. He 
might have beeu seen descending of a morning to the terrace, there to 
observe the sky, the wind, the clouds. Still later, when become a little 
more learned, he would establish of an evening his observatory on the 
balcony, and point out to the assembled family a thousand phenomena 
which without him would have passed unperceived, the eflects of -cer 
tain rays of tlie setting sun ; the moon with the accidents of light which 
environ it; the rainbows, the halos, in which he knew not as yet that he 
should one day find a title to celebrity. 

The paternal residence had for its horizon a mountain of moderate 
height, yet suflicient to serve, as we say, for a barometer. It is called 
the Roche de Vent. The clouds heaped themselves around it, the snow 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 147 

left its traces, mists sometimes visited it. It played no iudififerent pan 
in this cliildisli existence. Condncted thither by his father and broth- 
ers, it became the point to which his yet narrow observations and ex- 
peditions were directed, thongh it reqnired fonr or five lionrs to ascend 
and retnrn. His ambition, however, soared much higher when he saw 
his brothers return from the Pilat, a mountain well known to naturalists, 
bringing thence newHowers, unknown insects, and heard them describe 
the splendors of the sun rising behind Mont Blanc. He was not ten 
years old, and five or six hours were necessary to reach the summit. 
Yet, having well pondered his plans, he departs alone one morning, deter- 
mined that he also would sleep on the mountain top, and collect its 
plants, its stones, its insects. His absence excited little inquietude at 
home, for the sagacity with which he was accustomed to explore the 
complicated recesses of the mountains of the Vivarais was well known ; 
and, in fact, he returned safely the next morning with the objects 
which he had coveted, having drunk at the source of the Gier and seen 
the sun rise behind Mont Blanc, throwing into magnificent perspective 
the long chain of the Alps. Here we see the embryo adventurer des- 
tined one day to climb the perilous heights of Mont Blanc itself. 

Habits of meditation early announced the aptness which he was to 
exert at a later period in the advancement of science. Those who fre- 
quented the paternal mansion remember having often met a child 
apparently absorbed in in-ofound reflection, and who, to the inquiries 
which he excited, would naively answer: I am tlnnlang. And, indeed, 
so active and fruitful was this habit of thought that at the age of four- 
teen he had completed all the classical and literary courses of the Col- 
lege of Annonay. His father now thought proper to send him to Paris, 
that he might devote a year to rhetoric and another to philosophy in 
the College of Stanislas. The young Auguste carried thither habits of 
obedience and modesty which did not prevent him to be an indocile 
■ pupil. He pursued with the utmost exactness the prescribed studies, 
and succeeded in acquiring that pure, clear, and precise style which 
is the usual index of a good education ; but he did not evince for classi- 
cal studies the ardor for which the premiums at the end of the year are 
reserved. His predilections were directed elsewhere. Some books, 
hidden at the bottom of his trunk, had escaped notice. These we:e 
icorlcs on mathematics ; and these he found means of studying at night. 
He solved problems and wrote letters fall of intelligence to M. Eeynaud, 
the modest and learned professor of the College of Annonay, who had 
already given him lessons in arithmetic and geometry. 

On his return from Paris he was again placed under the charge of ]\1, 
Eeynaud, of whom he had become rather the friend than pupil, and as he 
had been destined by his father for the Polytechnic School, a certain in- 
sight into all that is required for admission was afforded him by the 
lirofessor in the course of a single year. In 182<S, therefore, he ventnred 
to present himself at Xismes for examination; but his preparation had 
been too rapid, and he was not received. Happily for himseli" and for 
science, the boundaries of which it was his fortune afterwards to extend, 
he had fiillen into the hands of a discriminative examiner, M. Bonr'^ou, 
who, while verifying the insufficiency of his studies, recognized the 
aptitude of his genius. This excellent man, to whom many among us 
besides owe a debt of gratitude, reflected on the futnre of this youthful 
candidate whom he Avas obliged to reject, and, with the ingenuous ear- 
nestness which he more than once displayed in behalf of students of 
whom he augured favorably, pleaded with the father of Auguste, and 
succeeded in x>ersuading him that the career of the unsuccessful appli- 



148 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTS BRAVAIS. 

cant still lay in the polyteclinic line. After this Dr. Bravais no longei 
hesitated, but sent his son anew to Paris, wliere he was placed in the 
institution of M. Barbet, theu distin/jjuished as one of the best sem- 
inaries of preparation for the Polytechnic School. 

Auguste Bravais pursued at the College of St. Louis, under M. Delille, 
the course of special mathematics. At the end of the year he obtained 
at the general competition the first prize of mathematics, and was re- 
ceived at the Polytechnic School as number two of the list. On pass- 
ing into the first division, after a year's study, he was classed as first, 
and at his exit made choice, with his father's a])probation, of the marine 
service. The sea ! How many opportunities did that name suggest of 
seeing distant shores, of studying nature in its difierent aspects, and of 
continuing, with enlarged knowledge, the studies which had formed the 
delight of a happy childhood. 

He embarked in Jannary, 1832, on board the rinistere,which then navi- 
gated the waters of the Mediterranean ; but he soon pjissed to the brig 
Loiret, comman«led by M. Berard, whom we have since counted among 
the correspondents of our section of geography, and who was at that 
time charged with the exploration of the coasts of Algeria. The Loiret, 
on board of which was also M. De Tessan, hydrographical engineer, and 
now our colleague, was employed two summers in making the coast sur- 
vey of our African possessions, and the work was completed when the 
vessel re-entered the port of Tonlon, October 25, 1833. The minister of 
marine, with a sagacity which does honor to his memory, had composed 
of futnre academicians the official staff of a vessel charged with a scien- 
tific mission, and the commander, M. Berard, in his excellent work, I)e- 
scription JSfaniique des Gates de VAhjerie, took occasion to convey to his 
assistants, and expressly to M. Bravais, his warm acknowledgments of 
the important share which they had borne in the common labor. 

The Loiret was next emploj^ed in maintaining the communications be- 
tween Algiers, Bona, and Oran, being armed on account of the hostile 
disposition of the inhabitants of the shores. In these incessant passages 
from one extremity of the Algerine coast to the other, it was necessary 
to make many different ports, and M. Bravais, who had been named lieu- 
tf^uant in 1831, lost none of these invaluable opportunities of satisfying 
his passion for natural history. A flora and fauna, different from those 
of the Cevennes, oflered a multitude of objects calculated to pique his 
curiosity. Magnificent collections of plants, insects, Crustacea, fish, ter- 
restrial or marine moUusks, rewarded his activity. Of these he made 
frequent remittances to Annonay, and sometimes carried thither in per- 
son the fruits of his researches, for, since leaving the Polytechnic School, 
he invariably passed there all the vacations and furloughs he could ob- 
tain. On these occasions of a return to his native place, he never failed 
to revisit his dear mountains, Pilat and Eoche de Vent, and resumed, 
though on a wider scale, the walks and herborizations which had formed 
of old the happiness of tlie Bravais family. Knapsack on his back, the 
young mariner then made long excursions, accompanied by his brother 
nearest in age to himself, the Abbe Camille Bravais, now professor of 
natural history at the College of Annonay, and keeper of the museum 
of that city, composed in great part of his own gifts and those of his 
family. 

But it Avas with his eldest brother. Dr. Louis Bravais, that our future 
colleague devoted himself to the more profound investigations of botany. 
At the beginning of the year 1835, the two brothers united in present- 
ing to the Academy a memoir entitled: Esmi (jeometriqiie sur la syme- 
trie des feuilles curviseriees et rcctisericcs, (Geometrical essay on cur- 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. - 149 

viserial and rectiserial leaves.) This memoir had nothing- in common 
with the ordinary hibors of botany relating to the description of species, 
or to botanical geography. As little was it a memoir on vegetable phy- 
siology in the usnal acceptation of the word. It was a work of a wholly 
special and original character on the relations of symmetry, presented 
by the insertions, at different points of the stem, of the leaves and or- 
gans which spring from it. This subject, although MM. Bravais had no 
knowledge of the tact, had shortly before been the subject of a memoir 
published by two distinguished botanists, ^MM. Schimper and Alexander 
Braun, who had pointed out its importance, and had arrived at some 
very curious results. 31. Adolph Bronguiart, however, in the report 
which he made to the Academy in 1837, pronounced that MM. Louis 
and Auguste Bravais had brought more precision to the study of the 
numerous facts which they had collected than had been before exem- 
plified. The subject, moreover, could not be comi)let»^ly elucidated 
without a profound knowledge of the helix and of the different spirals 
in which the insertions of the leaves are aligned with so remarkable a 
regularity, and withcmt a singular dexterity in the management of con- 
tinuous fractions, recurrent series, and other mathematical combinations 
of a delicate nature. M. Auguste Bravais had employed them, with the 
elegant simplicity which is always the stamp of an accomplished mathe- 
matician, for exiiressing the relations of position of the leaves with one 
another, and for arriving in a clear and precise manner at consequences 
Avhich could not otherwise be obtained except by long and tedious ten- 
tatives. These deductions have brought to light, in a degree but little 
suspected by many, a regularity of arrangement in the organs of vege- 
tables, which, without being precisely analogous to the laws of crystal- 
lography, is equally as precise and admirable. 

The brothers still further drew up in common different memoirs on 
botany, and it was not at Paris only that their labors obtained a de- 
served success. They equally attracted the attention of botanists in 
other parts of Europe, and M. De CandoUe dedicated to the two authors, 
under the name of Bravaisia, a new species of the family of the Bignon- 
iacene. The objects of natin-al history which M. Auguste Bravais sent 
from Algeria were also highly api^reciated. In 1835 he found on the 
Island of Eachgoun a serpent which was new to him, the Amphislxjena 
cincreaj and which he transmitted to M. De Blainville, who testified his 
surprise at the occurrence of such an animal in that country. Other 
remittances of seeds and living plants, collected in the province of Oran, 
earned for him letters of thanks from the administration of the Museum 
of Paris, and warm encouragements to complete the herbal of Desfon- 
taines, and to continue his researches in botany during- the voyages it 
was hoped he would undertake to other regions. 

The ardor of the young officer was so much increased by this success 
as sometimes to nmke him forget that he was no longer in the peace- 
able mountains of the Ardecho or of Daitphiny; it drew upon him, on 
several occasions, the kindly reproaches of his superiors for rashness. 
But these reproaches were changed into felicitations when, August 12, 
183G, at the head of thirty-seven marines, he extricated the command- 
ant and surgeon of the Loiret, surrounded, duriiig a hunting excursion, 
by the troops of the Emir. 

Unluckily, he did not arrive in time to rescue another officer, whom 
the Arabs had already carried oft'. But from the point where he then 
stood M. De France had witnessed the combat, which he describes in his 
interesting- account of the prisoners of Abd-el-Kader. " I will not con- 
clude," he says, " without speaking- of the bravery, the coolness, and 



150 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

address of my colleague, M. Bravais, lieutenant of the frigate. This 
courageous friend commanded the sailors who iiew to our succor ; he 
disposed his troop so skillfully, and fell so vigorously on the enemy, 
that he forced them to tiy precipitately, and, if conduct aud iutrepidity 
could have saved me, undoubtedly the conduct and iutrepidity of M. 
Bravais would have secured my release." 

The commandant, being wounded in the arm, could not write, and as 
the tirst lieutenant was prisoner, the duty of making the report upon 
the tight, iu which two sailors had been slain, devolved on M. Bravais. 
In drawing up this paper he avoided, as far as possible, under the im- 
pulse of his habitual modesty, all mention of himself; hence, while the 
minister of marine bestowed praise upon the Loiret, the author of the 
report received no decoration, as all around him would have wished. 
Yet, in the eyes of those who knew all the details of the afiair, the un- 
designed omission of the minister reflected more honor on the young 
officer than the star itself of the order would have conferred. He re- 
ceived that distinction, however, on another occasion, and for services 
of a wholly different character. 

Nature had largely endowed M. Bravais. With the brilliant officer 
and zealous naturalist there was united in him, according to the ex- 
pression of M. Cauchy, assuredly a competent judge in such matters, 
the true geometer. The former student of the College of Stanislas, who, 
in pursuing his course of rhetoric and philosophy, passed the night iu 
studying books of mathematics, had resumed, on board the Loiret, anal- 
ogous habits. With the consent of the superior officers, by whom he 
was rightly appreciated, his comrades, themselves highly distinguished, 
though with a different turn of mind, replaced him on the quarterdeck 
when his watch recurred, and M. Bravais shut himself up iu his cabin, 
where he spent the night in executing his calculations, or in solving 
such problems as presented themselves. It was thus that he made the 
calculations necessary for the reduction of the hydrographic projection 
of the coasts of Algeria; and thus, likewise, that he composed the math- 
ematical part of the botanical memoir which he published with his 
brother. Thus, too, a career was eventually opened to him of a special 
nature, and such as appealed most directly to his natural proclivities. 

Among other mathematical labors which M. Bravais had executed on 
board the Loiret, he had composed two memoirs, one on the Methods 
employed in taking hearings under sail, and the other on the UquiUbrium 
of Jloating bodies. Having obtained leave of absence from the minister 
of marine, he formed from these memoirs two theses which he sustained 
before the Faculty of Sciences of Lyons, in consequence of which he 
Avas received as doctor of sciences. These theses attracted just notice, 
and the minister subscribed for several copies of the second for the 
libraries of the ports. In thus acquiring the doctorate of mathematical 
sciences, M. Bravais was conforming to the friendly advice of M. Pois- 
sou, who, after conducting his examiuai'on at his exit from the Poly- 
technic School, had asked him why he did not enter upon the career of 
science. He still followed that advifie in presenting to the iVcademy 
several memoirs of analysis and geometry, upon which MM. Poisson, 
Sturm, and Savary, made favorable reports. 

From this period the minister of marine chose that M. Bravais should 
be released from the clandestine pursuit of science, and assigned him 
service in a mission purely scientific. He attached him to the Scientific 
Commission of the North, which was under the conduct of M. Gaimard, 
and of which M. Victor Lottin, lieutenant, had for several years formed 
a ])art. The commission had been inaugurated under melancholy cir- 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 151 

cumstauces. M. De Blosseville, already celebrated for two important 
scientific voyages, had received, iu 1833, the command of the brig La 
Lilloise, charged with the superintendence of the tisliery iu the seas of 
Iceland, and was accompanied, as second iu command, by M. LePele- 
tier d'Aunay. Both these young officers were animated by an ardent 
zeal for discovery, and had i)romised to efltect for the advancement of 
science all that was com])atible with the objects of their official mission. 
After a thorough exploration of the coasts of Iceland, they determined 
to reconnoiter the east coast of Greeuland, which had been blockaded 
by ice for centuries. On a first attempt they penetrated, July 20, iu the 
midst of broken ice, to a distance of about twenty-four leagued from 
Greenland. They could already take the bearings of the mountains, but 
their vessel, whose construction Avas not suitable for an enterprise of 
this sort, having undergone great damage from the floating ice, they 
had been constrained to disengage themselves with a view to repairs, 
while decided on making afterward a new attempt. There was rea- 
son to suppose that, in fact, they had become a second tune entangled 
in the ice toward the end of August. From the 2oth none of the fish- 
ing: barks had seen the Lilloise. 

Much solicitude had been naturally excited during the ensuing winter 
for the fate of the expedition, and in the spring of 1831 a vessel was 
sent in search, whose return without success aflbrded only new grounds 
for anxiety. In lS3ii the attempt was renewed, and the corvette La 
Recherche, commanded by M. Trehouart, was dispatched on a similar 
mission. M. Gaimard, who six years before had taken an active part 
in the discovery, on the reefs of Vanikoro, of the remains of La 
Perouse's expedition, generously proffered his services to co-operate iu 
the search for M. Ue Blosseville. Desiring at tlie same time that the 
exploration should subserve the interests of science as well as of hu- 
manity, he associated with himself several distinguished savants, art- 
ists, and men of letters. Such was the nucleus of the Scientific Com- 
mission of the North. 

All efforts to discover traces of the missing vessel were fruitless ; but 
the scientific commission having collected in Iceland the elements of a 
magnificent work, the design was embraced of exploring also Spitzber- 
gen and Lapland, and of leaving a part of the scientific body to winter 
in the latter country, in order to make observations in physics and 
meteorology. It was determined to increase the number of savants who 
composed the commission, and M. Martins, one of our best botanists 
and a distinguished meteorologist, was added to it, together m ith M. 
Bravais and several learned Scandinavians. Instructions were asked 
of the Academy of Sciences, and their preparation was confided to a 
special commission, whose recommendations were ado^jted in the sitting 
of April 23, 1838. 

The Recherche was equipped anew, and, under the command of M. 
Fabvre, left the port of Havre June 13, 1838, bearing the greater part 
of the members of the commission and all the material necessary for 
their operations. After touching at Drontheim, the ancient capital of 
"Norwny, Avhere she received the Swedish, Norwegian and D^mish 
savants designated by their respective governments, and at Hammer- 
fest, where she landed the stores provided for wintering, the Recherche 
turned her head toward Spitzbergen and moored, July 25, in the roads 
of Bell Sound, on the western coast of that group of islands, in 70° 
30' north latitude. The savants and officers of marine immediately 
nd dressed themselves to their work. Astronomy, physics, meteorology; 
the movements and temperature of the sea ; the vast glaciers descending 



152 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

from the tops of the mountains to the bay ; the geological constitution 
of those naked and declivitous mountains ; the scanty traces of vegeta- 
tion, very ditferent from that of Algeria, stretched at their foot along 
the beach, were the subjects of indefatigable study. M. Bravais, habit- 
uated from chihlhood to climbing rocks, Avas the tirst to reacli tlie sum- 
mit of a i)eak of dithcult access, on which the commission conferred Ids 
name. The ofticers of the vessel constructed a detailed plan of tlie 
Bay of Bell Sound, in concert, with MiM. Lottin and Bravais, who de- 
termined the azimuth of the bay, the heighthof the mountains, and the 
declination of the magnetic needle. 

But summer is of short duration in those high latitudes. On Angust 
5, the comnmndant judged proper to give the signal of departure, and 
the Eecherchc again came to anchor, on the 12th, in the port of llam- 
nuu^fest. Careful observations of the temperature of the waters of the 
sea at different depths were made during the passage by MM. Bravais 
and IMartins, the former of whom, with Professor Siljestrom, Swedish 
physicist. Professor Lilliehook, Norwegian physicist and astronomer, 
and M. Bevalet, draughtsman, landed at Hammerfest to winter in Lap- 
land. The corvette returned to Brest. 

The climate of the western coasts of Norway and of the coasts of 
Lapland is of a remarkable mildness in comparison with that of other 
points of the globe situated in the same latitude. The tepid waters of 
the Gulf of Mexico, borne by the ocean current, known as the Gulf 
Stream, diffuse a perpetual warmth and produce there a wholly ex- 
ceptional temperature. From this it results that the deep arms of the 
sea which, under the name of fiords, penetrate these singularly indented 
coasts, are scarcely ever obstructed by ice. Navigation, instead of being 
suspended for several months, as in the White Sea and the Baltic, is 
there generally open ; and this circumstance gives to the capacious aiul 
excellent ports of the hords of Lapland a certain strategic importance, 
calculated to enhance the scientific interest which the exceptional cli- 
mate would of itself inspire. But from its comparatively high tempera- 
ture the northern part of the Atlantic Ocean is enveloped, during win- 
ter, in almost permanent fogs, whose density is sufficient to shut out a 
view of the heavens. The port of Hammerfest being too near the sea 
and exposed to this disadvantage, our physicists chose for their winter 
station the village of Bossekop, situated on a narrow shelf at the ex- 
treme point of the Altenfiord, an arm of the sea which penetrates the 
land to the distance of seventy kilouietres, whence it results that the 
climate is there colder and the sky more frequently clear thau on the 
shores of the ocean. At this place the four physicists established, Sep- 
tember 1, the numerous instruments, telescopes, theodolites, gigantic 
compasses, barometers, thermometers, actinometers, pyrheliometers, &c., 
which had been landed from the corvette. These instruments had been 
constructed at Paris by the best artists and on the most perfect models. 
A small wooden structure, which might be taken down and rebuilt else- 
where, formed the astronomical observatory, while five other cabins 
served as meteorological and magnetical observatories, &c. 

Bossekop is situated in 09^ 5S' north latitude, and is therefore 3° 25' 
beyond the polar circle. The sun does not rise there every day in the 
year, and on that of the winter solstice, at noon, its center is 3^ 25' be- 
low the horizon. After the middle of November its disk is no longer 
seen entire, the lower part is lost to sight, and the luminary is wliojly 
invisible after the 17th of that month. For some time a crepuscular 
light illumines, toward mid-day, the southern arc of the horizon, but 
toAA-ard the 21st of December even this glimmer vanishes. It reap- 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 153 

pears in tlie begiimiug of January and increases by degrees. Finally, on 
the 31st of January, the solar disk begins again to show itself. It pro- 
jects a first ray, which is hailed by the universal acclamations of the 
population stationed at windows or on eminences to salute the benefi- 
cent orb, whose priceless value is better felt after such an absence. On 
that day all labor is suspended, felicitations are exchanged, dances ex- 
])ress the common joy, pledges are drunk to the resurrection of the sun; 
it is the time also for settling the bets which have been made on the 
rate of watches which, not having been regulated for two and a half 
months, are liable to have become deranged. The sun, after this, rises 
every day, at first for a few minutes only ; but the days gradually 
lengthen; at the equinox thej^ are equal to the nights; then tlie nights 
grow shorter, and finally extinct ; the sun ceases to set, and a continned 
day of nearly three months forms the compensation for the long night 
of winter. 

The perpetual day of the polar summer has never wanted witnesses ; 
but it needed the resolution inspired by an ardent love of science to 
await at Bossekop the festival of the resurrection of the sun. More 
resolution still was needed to undertake the labors which the commis- 
sion was charged with executing at that point. Xotwithstanduig the 
relative moderation of the climate, the thermometer often descends at 
Bosseko]), not, indeed, to 4:0 or 50 degrees centigrade below zero, as in 
the north of Asia and America, but, according to the observations of 
the commission, to 20^ or 25^ ; nor is the depression restricted, as in 
our climates, to the last hours of the night. Here the night does not 
terminate, and the diurnal variation of the temperature, evidently inde- 
pendent of the action of the sun, the maximum occurring at 11 o'clock 
in tlie morning and the minimum at o'clock in the evening, does not 
exceed on a mean the tenth of a degree. The wind which at Bossekoi> 
is least cold is that of the north, under the influence of the Northern 
Ocean; while the coldest is that from the south, which bears the frozeL 
air of the Scandinavian Alps. The temperature of the air is at its 
minimum at the surface of the ground. It rises gradually by some de- 
grees to a height of about one hundred metres, and afterward dimin- 
ishes agreeably to the usual law. All the elements of the climate were 
collected by our physicists through observations luade uninterruptedly 
at intervals of two hours, and sometimes hourly, on the barometer, the 
thermometer, the direction of the wind, the state of the sky, the tem- 
perature of the earth at its surface, the magnetic apparatus, &c. All 
these determinations, inscribed on registers kept constantly and with 
perfect order, have been published in the great work of the Scientific 
Commission of the North. 

The two marines and two professors divided between thein the labor 
and the watching, the latter being observed with as much regnlarity as 
on Itoard a man-of-war; but if an aurora borealis presented an extra- 
ordinary brilliancy there was a general turnout; every one was at his 
post. Some drops of coftee, seasonably taken, dispelled the importunate 
somnolence of the Lapland night. Of the observers, while a jtortiou 
noted every five minutes the positions assumed bj^ the magnetic needle 
under the disturbing influence of the aurora, others, in the 'ipen air, 
recorded, watch in hand, the diflerent phases of the phenomenon and 
measured the altitudes above the horizon. The adjusting screws of 
their instruments often became so cold that it was necessary to cover 
them with cloth, without which precaution their fingers would have -id- 
hered to the brass through the sudden congelation of the humidity of 
the skin. 



154 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

Independently of tlie detailed journal of observations of the auroras, 
printed in the work already referred to, and the splendid plates of the 
physical atlas, which represent the most remarkable appearances ob- 
served by the four physicists, M. Bravais has inserted in the same jiub- 
licatiou a Mcmolre snr les aurores hormles, cited by competent judges iis 
more precise than anything heretofore written on the subject. The fol- 
lovring rapid summary of the contents of this essay may not be without 
interest. 

When the first doubtful gleams of an aurora begin to diffuse them- 
selves in the sky, there is first perceived at the horizon, a little to the 
west of north, a dark segment, which, according to the very probable 
conjectures of M. Bravais, is nothing else than the compact mass of 
fogs with which the temperate waters of the Polar Sea are almost con- 
stantly covered. Above the dark segment gleams of light like those of 
a conthigration soon make their appearance, simi)ly resulting, i)erhaps, 
from the still distant glow of the aurora retlected on the surface of the 
marine vapors. Some time afterward a luminous arc is traced above 
the segment, its two extremities resting on the horizon, and its culmi- 
nating ])oint, which divides it into two e<iual and symmetrical parts, 
being situated most frequently in the neighborhood of the magnetic 
meridian. On an average it falls a little to the west of that meridian, 
from wliich it i)rogressively diverges as it becomes more remote Irom 
the northern edge of the horizon, especially when, having passed the 
zenith, it apx)roaclies the southern horizon, from which in certain cases 
it is distant but a few degrees. Sometimes several different arcs show 
themselves at the same time ; very often there are two, more rarely three, 
but as many as nine have been counted at one time. Their breadth, 
which at a mean is from seven to eight degrees, occasionally exceeds 
twenty-five degrees, particularly in the culminant part wdien it passes near 
the zenith. Through a combination of nu^asurements this last reniark 
has led to the conclusion that the arcs of the aurora borealis are tlat- 
teued parallel to the surface of the earth, and thus one of the means 
proper for furnishing the measure of the height at which these arcs are 
situated above the surface was suggested to M. Bravais. 

The height in question had long before occupied attention, and it had 
with reason been thought that it might be calculated from the parallax 
resulting from two observations of the same arc, made simultaneously 
by two observers placed at a known distance. With a view to this 
means of determination M. Bravais passed thirteen days of January 
1838 at Jupvig, situated fifteen kilometres to the north of Bossekop, in 
order to observe the auroras from that point, while his colleagues ob- 
served them at the same instants of time from their usual station. The 
forms of a great number of arcs, and especially those of the most regu- 
lar arcs, were taken with much care by the commission, and M. Bravais, 
by discussing them, through means of elegant geometric constructions 
and trigonometrical formulas skillfully reduced to the greatest simpli- 
city, has shown that all these arcs, conformably with the hypothesis of 
our distinguished correspondent, M. Hansteen, of Christiania, ma^^ be 
considered as the perspectives of circular rings, having their center on 
the terrestrial radius directed toward the magnetic pole, and their plane 
perpendicular to that radius. His formulas have given him, for each 
case, the elevation of the ring above the surface of the earth, and this 
means of measurement, combined with the two others already indicated, 
have led him to the conclusion that the arcs of the aurora borealis are 
situated at an altitude of one hundred to two hundred kilometres, in 
the region where the shooting stars and bolides become incandescent 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BEAVAIS. 155 

and luminous, that is to say, toward the extreme limits of the terres- 
trial atmosphere, the extent of which had long been supposed to be less 
considerable. 

The color of the arcs is usually of a uniform yellowish white. They 
are of sufficient transparence to allow the stars to be seen through 
them, and while the radiance of the most brilliant arcs equals that of 
stars of the first magnitude, the greater number are only comparable to 
those of the second, "third, and fourth. The position of each arc does 
not remain invariable during its whole duration ; on the contrary, it 
varies with much rapidity, so as to compel the observer to operate with 
great quickness, if he would give to the different parts ^f the same arc 
positions exactly corresponding as regards one another. In their move- 
ments the arcs sometimes approach the zenith and sometimes withdraw 
from it, whether toward the north or toward the south. Their edge 
nearest to the horizon is usually the best defined. They have not always 
regular forms ; we see them assume a thousand fantastic configurations, 
such as that of an undulating scarf, or even of a crook. They some- 
times show, especially toward the end, a tendency to become decomposed 
into short rays in a direction conformable to the width of the arc. 

After the arcs, at a rather more advanced hour, appear the rays prop- 
erly so called, which form the second type to which the gleams of the 
aurora borealis may be referred. The rays are luminous columns of 
much greater length than breadth, the prolongation of which on high 
would terminate at the magnetic zenith, the i^oiut of apparent concourse 
of all the lines parallel to the needle of inclination, and situated, at 
Bossekop, only lo'^ toward the south of the astronomical zenith. The 
brilliancy of the rays is variable like that of the arcs, and generally 
more vivid. They are susceptible of two movements ; one in virtue of 
which the ray prolongs itself toward the zenith or toward the horizon, 
the other by which it is displaced laterally and parallel to itself. These 
movements are sometimes of an excessive rapidity, and it is not rare to 
see the rays dart their light, with a vibratory movement, toward the 
zenith, and still more frequently toward the horizon, with extreme viva- 
city. When these movements are alternate, the ray seems to gambol 
or dance ; hence, the caprce saltantes of old authors, the marionnettes of 
the inhabitants of Newfoundland, the merry dancers of England. In 
general the more rapid the movements the more brilliant become the 
rays. The color of these is usually white or pale yellow, sometimes of a 
reddish hue. When the vibratory movements of the rays become very 
precii)itate, the brilliant yellow tint is concentrated in their middle part 
and the op]iosite extremities take the color of violet-red and green, the 
red alwaj's showing itself on the side to which the ray darts its light. 
Occasionally the rays unite with one another at the magnetic zenith to 
form a crown either complete or incomplete ; and when, in executing 
this movement, they lose their usual yellowish tint and glow with an 
intenser luster, passing into red and green, the crown presents the great- 
est degree of magnificence which the aurora is capable of displaying. 
At certain moments the vibratorj^ movements by which the rays are 
animated change into a sort of general palpitation in which all the 
gleams of the aurora are confounded, the arcs as well as rays. It is 
the announcement of a diminution more or less proximate of this splen- 
did meteor. 

The refulgence of the aurora borealis might seem to have been given 
to the polar regions as a compensation for the absence of the sun ; for 
these arctic lights, barely visible two or three times a year on the liori- 
zou of PariSj illumine almost every evening the latitudes from which 



156 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

the star of day is withdrawn. They are no longer observed there dur- 
ing the uninterrupted day of summer ; it is at the end of August, and 
especially at the period of the autumnal equinox, that their number is 
multiplied in Lapland, and their frequency diminishes at the vewial 
equinox, and still more toward the end of April, During this interval 
of more than six months very few nights are destitute of the auroral 
dis])lay. 

The apparition of the auroras is therefore subject to the course of the 
seasons, and it is not less remarkable that even during the hibernal 
night the hours of their commencement and of their different phases 
maintain a consltant relation to tlie hour of the passage at the meridian 
of the sun, which has become invisible. Their appearance always takes 
place during the hours which correspond to the night of our tem]>erate 
zones. It is generally between ten and eleven in the evening that they 
assume the effulgent colors by which some of them are distinguished, 
and, in all, their greatest brilliancy corresponds to the same period of 
the night. The meteor usually disappears toward morning. 

M. Bravais states that by the light of a brilliant aurora he could read 
a page printed in small type almost as easily as by the light of the full 
moon. When the sun no longer rises, the moon, which at its full is in 
opposition with the sun, is seen almost constantly on the horizon, and 
the double eft'ulgence of that planet and of the aurora greatly dimin- 
ishes the obscurity of the polar night. Irregular as are these lights, 
they suffice to enable the Lapps, the Samoieds, and the Esquimaux to 
traverse in sleds the limitless snows which cover their country ; and 
when the absence of the sun would tend to dull their minds, the fantas- 
tic images presented by a fitful illumination serve to arouse their imag- 
ination and afford a pabulum on which it is marvellously exercised. 

Notwithstanding the movements wdth which the arcs and rays of tlie 
aurora are endowed, it is evident that they follow the movement of ro- 
tation of the earth. The aurora borealis is therefore an atmospheric 
and not a cosmical phenomenon. Canton, M. Becquerel, and other phy- 
sicists, have pointed out the resemblance which exists between the vio- 
let-red tints of this meteor and those which electricity displays when 
moving in a vacuum. This circumstance, added to the action of the 
aurora on the magnetic needle, has led physicists to class it among elec- 
tric phenomena. M. Bravais gives his adhesion to this opinion, the 
verification of which has been recently corroborated by a remarkable 
experiment of our distinguished colleague, M. De La Eive. 

After a sojourn of seven months the commission quitted Bossekop, 
April 1839, and returned to Hammerfest in order to execute sundry 
labors and await the corvette which was to convey them a second time 
to Spitzbergeu. Vegetation was renewing and develoi)ing itself with 
that astonishing rapidity which, from the commencement of May, an 
almost continual day gives to it in Lapland. M. Bravais could not resist 
his passion for herborizing, but unfortunately, in attempting to gather 
a i)lant springing from the crevice of a rock, he sustained a violent fall 
and fractured" a knee, so that when the corvette bore off" his companions 
he found himself under the necessity of remaining at Hammerfest until 
the end of the polar summer should bring back the other members of 
the commission. Far from being discouraged, how^ever, by so vexatious 
a mishap, he continued the series of meteorological and magnetic obser- 
vations, and as soon as the injury permitted him to walk, labored at the 
sompletion of two memoirs commenced during his stay at Bossekop, 
one on the tides, and the other on the lines of the ancient level of the sea. 

A sojouru of more than a year had enabled him to perfect his obser- 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 157 

vatioii of the tides, and having afterward collated his own measure- 
ments with those executed at Eeikiavik, in Iceland, and Bell Sound, in 
Si)itzbergeu, by MM. Lottin and Laroche-Poncie, and submitted the 
M-hole to a thorough discussion, he determined the units of height of 
tide in several ports of the Xorth Atlantic Ocean. He also calculated 
for those coasts the value of the semi-diurnal tide and that of the diur- 
nal tide for both the sua and moon. He was struck witli tlie relative 
importance which the diurnal tide there assumes, and this circumstance, 
compared with the analogous fact already observed in the Sea of Kamt- 
chatka, led him to infer that the tides of the Atlantic and Pacitic 
mutually influence one another through the Straits of Behring. 

The banks of the Altenfiord, in the environs of Bossekoi) and ITam- 
merfest, as well as at many intermediate localities, ])resent terraces 
having almost horizontal surfaces, whose regularity recalls the construc- 
tions of fortitication, though there is nothing artiticial about them. Each 
of these terminates at the foot of the rocks in a line marked by erosions 
similar to those which the sea i)roduces on its present beach. In each 
terrace is easily recognized an ancient marine coast, on which the sea 
has beaten for a long time at a well-defined height. At some points 
several of these are to be seen, one above the other. M. Bravais occu- 
pied himself in a determination of the actual elevation of all 'tliese 
traces of the ancient level of the sea, and here botany has furnished 
him a useful resource. A marine plant, the Fucus vcsiculosus, widely 
dispersed on those coasts, grows upon the rocks only at a certain dis- 
tance beneath the mean surface of the sen, and forms a yellowish zone, 
of which the upper limit is well marked and perfectly horizontal. This 
line supplied the plane to which M. Bravais referred, by precise level- 
lugs, the ancient marks of erosion by the sea ; and he thus recognized 
that all these traces of its ancient altitude form five series, more or less 
distinct, two of which especially are perfectly unbroken ; that these 
last are slightly inclined from the interior of the continent toward the 
ocean, and that one of them in particular ijresents two parts of which 
the inclinations are difterent. From this we are authorized to conclude 
that tliese terraces and the ground which supports them have been 
lifted above the level of the sea ; for, if it were the sea which had sub- 
sided, each of the two series of terraces would have been perfectly hori- 
zontal. The mobility of the solid crust of our globe is thereby fully 
demonstrated. It might be said that the expression, Jirm as a roclc, if 
taken in too absolute a sense, embodies an illusion, and that there is 
nothing more unstable in the world than the mean level of the sea. 

M. Bravais was occupied with these subjects till the moment when 
the corvette, returning from Spitzbergen, again arrived at Hammerfest. 
The members of the commission then separated for the last time, in 
order to return to their respective countries by different routes. M. Bra- 
vais associated himself with M. Martins to return by land, and, still 
herborizing, traversed, barometer in hand, the plateau of Lapland, 
where the two travelers determined with precision the altitudes of the 
upi)er and lower limits of the different zones of vegetation. In this 
way they completed, not the Atlantic flora of Desfontaines, as M. Bra- 
vais had seemed destined to do, but the admirable labors in botanical 
geography of Leopold von Buch and the celebrated flora of Wahlem- 
berg. 

In the vast forests of Sweden, MM. Martins and Bravais had many 
opportunities of observing the Pinus silvestris, (Scotch fir,) of which 
those forests are in great part composed, and published at their return 
a memoii' on the growth of that tree, a work which had been recom- 



158 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

mended by M. Be CaudoUe, and whicli comprises a matliematical for- 
mnla for arriving' at the probable age of a fir-tree wliose diameter is 
known. At Stockholm they carefully com[)ared their meteorological 
iiistruuients, and iiarticularly their barometers, with those that were 
ein[)Ioyed for (juotidian meteorological observations. This comparison 
"was repeated in all the capitals and great cities through which they 
passed in returning to France, and their instruments having been com- 
X)ared before their departure, as they were at their return, with those of 
the Observatory of Paris, a means was thus created of reducing to en- 
tire harmony, and of referring in some sort to the same diapason, the me- 
teorological observations which are prosecuted in a large part of Europe. 

Having returned to Paris in January 1840, they addressed to M. 
A.rago a detailed letter on the labors of the Commission of the North, 
which was inserted in the Comptes-Rendus of the Academy. Their eftbrts 
were justly appreciated and well-earned rewards conferred on them, M. 
Bravais receiving- on his part the decoration of the Legion of Honor, 
and authority to wear that of the Swedish Order of the Sword. In his 
capacity of marine officer he was charged by the minister witli the duty 
of collecting, jointly with M. Lottin. all the observations on general 
physics made by the commission, and superintending the i)ublication. 
He was permitted at the same time to occupy a chair in one of the fac- 
ulties of science, then lately created in different cities of France, and 
was named professor of mathematics applied to astronomy in that of 
Lyons, of which facultj" M. Tabereau, his future brotlier-in-law, the dis- 
tinguished founder of the school of La Martiniere, was dean. Among 
the observations niade by M. Bravais at the Observatory of Lyons 
many would deserve to be cited, particularly one on a magnificent ap- 
Xjearance of the zodiacal light in the month of February 1842. The re- 
searches incident to a preparation for his new functions led also to the 
composition of an important memoir on the movement of translation of 
the sun, which he addressed to the Academy of Sciences, in 1843. From 
the profounder theorems of mechanics on the mutual attractions of the 
stars and the sun, he here establishes that the proper movement of our 
total system is towards the star vj of the constellation Hercules. 

Elected, on his arrival, a member of the Academy of Lyons, JM. Bravais 
bore, with his father and two of his brothers, a \Qxy active part in the 
labors of the scientific congress assembled in that city, and laid before 
it in detail various important considerations on the meteorology of the 
south of France. He also contributed efficiently, with MM. Lortet and 
Fouruet, to the establishment of the Hydrometric Society of Lyons, 
widely known for its important and useful labors. With these occupa- 
tions was united an assiduous co-operation in the production of a work 
entitled Patria, which he edited during the three years of his residence 
at Lyons, in conjunction with MM. Lalanne, Le Pileur, and Martins. 
This work, undertaken with a view to utility, presents, in a condensed 
and portable form, a miniature encyclopedia of everything relating to 
France which it is most desirable to have for immediate reference. The 
articles in this collection on geography, physics of the soil, as well as 
many others compiled by M. Bravais, nnist always be regarded as models 
of conciseness and lucidity. 

But Lyons is not remote from Switzerland and Savoy ; the sight of 
the summits of the Alps, those old friends of his childhood, the sight of 
the eternal snows, which recalled to him Spitzbergen and Lapland, easily 
awakened in M. Bravais his instin(;ts as a traveler. In 1841, after the 
close of his first course, he undertook a journey into Switzerland, and 
in order to render it subservient to the continuation of his meteorologi- 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BEAVAIS. 159 

cal labors, be established himself on the Faulhorn, in company with his 
elder brother, M. Louis Bravais, and his friend M. Martins. 

The Faulhorn is an isolated mountain, elevated 2,080 metres above 
the sea aud placed like a belvidere in face of the highest mountains of 
the canton of Berne, the Eiger, the jMouch, the Jungfrau. Every sum- 
mer thousands of tourists ascend this peak, in order to enjoy the mag- 
nificent view of the snows and glaciers of the Oberland. Tlie inn estab- 
lished to receive them became the meteorological station of MM. iMartins 
and Bravais. They re-established there the Observatory of Bossekop, 
and from the 17th of July to the 5th of August made a series of obser- 
vations similar to those of Lapland, saving the absence of the aurora 
borealis. 2sor was natural history forgotten ; familiar with mountains 
and with the application of physics to the geography of plants, the re- 
searches of our savants were rewarded by an ample harvest gathered on 
the acclivities and in the environs of tlie Faulhorn. Experiments in 
physics also, of high interest, were instituted by MM. Bravais and Mar- 
tins. M. Dumas, our distinguished colleague, had caused to be pre- 
pared at Paris several glass balloons provided with taps, in which as 
complete a vacuum as possible had been established. These balloons 
were filled with the air which enveloped the summit of the mountain, 
then closed with the greatest care, and sent back to M. Dumas. Analy- 
sis showed that the air inclosed in these balloons contained the same 
proportions of oxygen and nitrogen with the air taken at Paris ; whence 
it resulted that, contrary to the opinion formerly entertained by Dalton, 
but controverted by Gay-Lussac and Humboldt, the constituent pro- 
portions of the air do not vary with the height. M. Bravais devoted 
the evenings, when the sky was sufficiently clear, to the study of cre- 
liuscular phenomena. His observations, united with those of other me- 
teorologists and submitted to calculation, furnished him a new measure 
of the height of the atmosphere, equal at least to one hundred kilo- 
metres, a result quite approximate to that which had been given him by 
the auroras of Bossekop. 

In 1842 the meeting at the Faulhorn was repeated, and the same series 
of meteorological observations were continued, but M]M. Bravais and 
Martins applied themselves moreover to researches in physics of a new 
order. M. Peltier, one of our most distinguished and most exact phy- 
sicists, snatched away too soon from science, joined them on this occasion 
and united with 31. Bravais in measuring- the temperature of ebullition 
of water under different barometric pressures. The object of these 
studies was to perfect the tables which serve to determine the elevation 
above the sea, from the degree of the thermometer at which water enters 
into ebullition, a method of less inconvenient application than the baro- 
metric method. 

MM. Bravais and Martins, aided by M. Camille Bravais, who now 
replaced the elder brother, made also important experiments on the 
propagation of sound. Mortars were fired on the Faulhorn and on the 
shore of the Lake of Brienz, 2,041 metres lower down, the Hash being- 
visible and the report heard from each station at the other. The per- 
ception of the light might be regarded as instantaneous, aud by measur- 
ing with a seconds watch the retardation of the sound, the velocity of 
its propagation was determined. It was thus found that, for dry air, 
at the temperature of melting ice, the velocity of the propagation of 
sound, whether ascending- or descending, is 332 metres 4 centimetres 
per second. This result accords with that of the celebrated experiments 
made between Yillejuif and Montlhery, when sound was propagated 
horizontally. 



160 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 



In 1843 IVT, Bravais made no excursion ; it was for him a year of mourn- 
ing. His eldest brother, M. Louis Bravais, his coadjutor in tlie memoii 
on the symjuetrical arrangement of leaves, died at the commencement 
of summer, after six months of suli'ering", borne with Cliristian resigna- 
tion, in the midst of which he occu])ied himself, to his last day, with 
researches in botany. This painful separation slackened but transiently 
the labors of M. Auguste Bravais. He speedily returned to them with 
his accustomed ardor, and the year following entered upon a new ex- 
pedition, the last and i)erhaps the most remaricable of those which it 
was given him to acconipbsh. 

The su[)[)osition is not improbable that two of our distinguished per- 
petual secretaries, always pleased at meeting one another on neutral 
ground, had, about that time, exchanged some words on the subject of 
M. Bravais. M. Arago had, from the tribune of the Chamber of Depu- 
ties, cited him as one of the officers who, by their knowledge, reflected 
most honor on our marine, even comparing him, in his extemporization, 
with the geometers of antiquity. M. Villemain, then minister of public 
instruction, enlightened also by our learned colleague M. Pouillet, had 
the merit of comprehending the expediency of an adventure which 
would crown, by the ascent of Mont Blanc, the i)revious labors of M. 
Bravais, and drew upon the budget of his department for the expenses 
of this difficult enterprise. 

De Baussure was the lirst physicist who had made the ascent of Mont 
Blanc; M. Bravais was the second. He shared this distinction with his 
friend M. Ch. Martins, and with Dr. Pileur, his collaborator in editing 
the Fatria, 

It was with no little interest that learned Europe had heard that M. 
De Saussure, already celebrated for his travels in the Alps, had suc- 
ceeded in carrying his barometer to the summit of Mont Blanc, and had 
fixed the height of the mountain at 2,450 toises. He had made at the 
same time several experiments in physics, which have never ceased to 
hold an honorable place in all treatises on meteorology. But physics 
had made great progress in the space of fifty-seven years ; it had be- 
come time to renew the experiments of De Saussure, and to add new 
ones, of which no idea could exist in his time. Such was the path which 
the enlightened liberality of M. Villemain now opened to the hardihood 
and skill of the three modern physicists. 

Having left Paris, July 10, 1844, with a complete series of instruments 
of better construction than had ever before been employed in a work of 
this nature, the travelers stopped at Geneva in order to compare them 
with those which are there daily employed, with a care and dexterity 
worthy of the countr}' of De Saussure, and arrived at Chamouni, where, 
in 17S7, this last-named savant had been obliged to wait four weeks for 
weather propitious to his undertaking. M. Bravais and his companions 
were scarcely more favored. A first and second attempt failed from 
atmospheric accidents, which were not unattended with danger, but at 
length they arrived, August 28, for the third time at a wide plateau of 
snow, 880 metres below the summit of the mountain, where their instru- 
ments had been permanently fixed for three weeks, under shelter of a 
small tent. The night passed cold and calm, and next day, the obser- 
vations of the morning being completed, the adventurers proceeded, at 
ten o'clock, to climb to the top of Mont Blanc. This was reached, with- 
out any extraordinary difficulties, at forty-five minutes after one ox-lock. 
The wind was blowing with gTeat force from the northwest ; the ther- 
mometer marked 7° below zero. The sun shone brightly, but vapors 
veiled the more remote parts of the vast horizon, which extends from 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BEAVAIS. 161 

the Cote d'Or to the Diountains of Lignria. The circumjacent monutains, 
on the contrary, were seen with great distinctness. After throwing a 
glance on this magnificent panorama, jMM. Bravais, Martins, and Le 
Pileur hastened to arrange their instruments — barometer, thermometer, 
hygrometer, psychrometer, pyrheliometer, actinometer, compass; the 
instrument for measuring the horizontal magnetic intensity ; another 
for measuring the inclination of the magnetic needle; another for measur- 
ing the temperature of ebullition of water; instruments for observing 
the tints of the sky and transparence of the atmosphere, &c., another for 
measuring the electric intensity. The genius of I)e Saussure had sug- 
gested a part of the same exj)eriments, but his extemporized instruments 
were less complicated than those of to-day, whose precision is paid lor 
by the minute precautions which their management exacts. 

During the five hours passed on the summit of Mont Blanc, our three 
l^hysicists had time to derive from their instruments all they were ca- 
pable of yielding, and to collect a series of measurements which left 
little to desire. At the approach of evening, the principal experiments 
in physics having been nearly termin.ated, M. Bravais established the 
theodolite, and, assisted by M. Le Pileur, who wrote the angles at his 
dictation, commenced a survey of the horizon, measuring- the angle of 
depression of each of the mountains which formed it, and the azimuth 
which expressed the direction in which it was seen. This circuit of the 
Jiorizon of Mont Blanc, which had never before been made, (tor De 
Saussure had confined himself to general remarks,) will remain a valua- 
ble monument for geodesy and geology. The work was almost finished, 
and nothing remained to be taken but the least interesting parts of the 
panorama, when the process was interrupted by a phenomenon which 
equally surprised the eight persons (guides and travelers) then assembled 
on Mont Blanc, because, in none of the ascents j^reviously made, had 
any one ventured to remain there till the setting of the sun. 

" At forty minutes after six," says M. Bravais, in the little work which 
contains his tour (Thorizon, " the sun approaching the moment of its 
disappearance, we cast our eyes on the side opposite to the luminary, 
and saw, not without wonder, the shadow of Mont Blanc projected on 
the snow-covered mountains in the eastern part of our panorama. I 
took the summit of that shadow with the thedolite, and obtained the 
depression of — 1°. A minute afterwards it was — 0° 48', ascending 
in i^roportion as the sun declined. We still remained some ten minutes 
occupied in packing our baggage, and rather anxious to descend on ac- 
count of the shortness of twilight on high mountains. * * * i have 
delineated iu the panorama the form then presented by the shadow of 
Mont Blanc. It rose gradually into the atmosphere, as though this were 
a canvass on which it was just portraying itself. The separation of the 
shadov,' and the light was strongly defined in its outlines, and it thus 
continued to ascend, rising above the mountains of the Valley of Aosta, 
until it attained the height of 1°, still remaining perfectly visible. The 
air above the cone of shadow was of that rose-purple tint which, in fine 
sunsets, is seen to color the western sky, while the border of this tint, 
along the line of separation, presented a more intense hue of red, con- 
tributing greatly to enhance the splendor of the phenomenon. 

" Let the mountains of the great Valley of Aosta be now conceived 
as also simultaneously projecting their shadows into the atmosphere; 
the outline of their mighty spires distinctly visible ; dark, or rather 
faintly green below, but soaring up into that expanse of rose-('.)lored 
light from which they were separated by a band of deeper hue ; to this 
be added the j)recision of the cones of shadow, and especially of the 
11 s 



1l2 memoir of auguste bravais. 

outline of their crests, and, finally, the effect of tlie laws of perspective, 
causing: all these lines to converge toward one another and toward the 
retlected summit of Mont Blanc, where our own shadows might also be 
snpposed to find a place ; still but an incomplete idea can be formed of 
the grandeur of the meteorological phenomenon whieh, for those few in- 
stants, displayed itself before us. It might seem as if some invisible 
being, seated on a throne edged with fire, received the homage of bright- 
winged angels who, on their knees, bent in adoration toward him. 

"At the view of so much magnificence, our arms and those of our 
guides remained inactive, and cries of enthusiasm bnrst from our lips. 
I have seen the splendid auroras of the north, with their zenith-crowns 
of variegated and moveable colnmns, not to be equalled in effect by the 
richest displays of pyrotechny ; but the sight of the shadow of Mont 
Blauc on the sky appears to me more august by far. After indulging 
for ten minutes in the contemplation of this spectacle, we were forced 
again to think of returning. Fortunately, the full moon, rising Ijrightly 
above the eastern horizon, sufiiced for that stage of our jonrney which 
conducted us again to our tent, where we arrived after fifty minutes 
of very rapid descent." 

This })oetic sally enables us to judge whether the cold of twelve de- 
grees, which then existed on Mont Blanc, and the management of grad- 
uated instruments, had chilled the imagination. We may be sure that 
observers who, at the close of the day, remained accessible to such vivid 
impressions, had neglected, during its course, nothing which formed the 
special object of their toilsome and perilous ascent; and we may say, 
without further commentary, that skillful ])hysicists who have em])loyed 
fifteen hours of assiduous labor to conduct, on the top of IMont Blanc, 
the operations of the best instruments known, who, moreover, have oc- 
cupied four days in following their action on the plateau near the sum- 
mit, could not fail to have put us in possession of scientific documents 
of high value, before which a multitude of doubts and uncertainties 
must disappear. 

Having completed, at their tent on the grand plateau, the four days 
of observation, the travelers descended, September 1, to Chaniouni. 
Here they rejoined M. Camille Bravais, who had been meanwhile en- 
gaged in making, every two hours, corresponding observations at the 
same point where M. Theodore de Saussure, since so celebrated for his 
investigations in vegetable physiology, had co-operated in like manner 
in the labors of his distinguished father, while the latter was operating 
on Mont Blanc. Nor were otliers indifferent to the issue of the ascent. 
For a month the father and sister of M. Bravais had gone, every day, 
to seat themselves at a spot, in the entrance of the Vale of Annouay, 
whence Mont Blanc and the snowy crests of the Alps maybe seen, and 
whence he had himself in chiklhood often contem])lated them. They 
had not failed to be there on the 29th of August, but the zone of vapors 
which, from Mont Blanc, obscured the plains, hid everything from their 
view. The same disappointment existed at Lyons. With the l)est tele- 
scopes the adventurers could not be perceived on the top of the great 
mountain, and the preparations made by learned colleagues, MM. Ta- 
bareau, Fournet, Lortet, and other eminent physicists, with a view to 
cooperate in the enterprise by their own observations, remained for the 
most part unfruitful. 

The professor of astronomy had secured for himself, through the 
amenities of intercourse, a large share in the affection of the faculty. 
Lively, though reflective, in disposition, full of kindness, of (U'licacy, 
and disinterestedness, M. Bravais knew how to enjoy the success of 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 163 

others, and no shade of rivahy ever found access to hiin. Always dis- 
posed to render service and to give counsel, when asked for, he fulfilled 
his own duties with the most scrupuhjos exactness. His lectures drew 
a numerous anditory, for they were enlivened by the associations which 
the variety of his studies and experiences presented without elfort to 
his mind, and to which Ids vivid imagination gave an endlessly diversi- 
fied expression. In spite of the aridity sup[)osed to he inherent in 
nmthematical pursuits, Ids conversation was picturesque and sportive, 
and oiten heightened by sallies in which science allied itself with poetry. 
It was never witliout regret, therefore, that his colleagues of Lyons heard 
him speak of withdrawing. Yet, this ]\I. Bravais was bound to think 
of, for the publication of the voyage of the Scientific Commission of 
the xsorth was advancing, and with that would finish the mission with 
which he had been cliargcd by the minister of marine. To remain at 
Lyons would have been to renounce his career as an officer in that 
branch of service, and he sometimes thought of requesting to be sent 
on some new" voyage. Those who justly saw in him the ideal of the 
scientific traveler could not forbear from encouraging him to do so, but 
an unforeseen circumstance put an end to these deliberations. 

Our distinguished colleague, M. Lame, had just relinquished the chair 
of physics in the Polytechnic School to occupy the place of examiner of 
graduates. The council, with great unanimity, designated M. Bravais 
to succeed him. The latter, tberefore, a naval lieutenant, was nonunated 
to replace M. Lame, chief engineer of mines, in a school which furnishes 
as ^rell ofliccrs to the marine as engineers to the corps of mines and of 
civil constructions. 

The preparation of a course so high as that with which he was now 
charged, gave, for some time, a particular direction to the studies of M. 
Bravais, and he delayed not to publish several excellent memoirs on 
atmospheric optics and the molescular constitution of bodies. A year 
after his ascent of Mont Blanc lie presented to the Academy a memoir 
on the white rai)d)oiv, which completed in a very happy manner one of 
the most admirable theories of physics. 

Until these latter ages mankind had seen in the rainbow a sign of 
hope, without knowing the causes of its appearance. Theodorich, De 
Dominis, Descartes, had explained its formation by the refractions and 
reflections undergone, in drojis of rain, by the rays of the sun. Newton 
had completed this explanation by tiie consideration of the unequal 
refrangibility of colors ; but none of these eminent physicists, and none 
of those who after them had been occupied with the details of the 
phenomenon, had ex])lained in a satisfactory manner the formation of the 
ichite rainbow^ which is sometimes seen to make its appearance on fogs of 
little elevation and not far remote from the spectator, with a radius 
sensibly inferior to that of the ordinary rainbow. It was reserved for 
M. Bravais to demonstrate that if a cloud is formed of small hollow 
spheres in which the thickness of the watery envelope is comprised be- 
tween thirty-eight and fifty-five-hundredths of the radius of the internal 
vacuum, it must form a white luminous arc of thirty-four to forty degrees 
of radius, ami consequently not so large as the ordinary rainbow of the 
first order, whose radius is 42° 20'. In ordinary clouds the envelope of 
the globules of vesicular vapor is thinner than that required by the 
theory of the white raiid)ow, whence it results that it is not formed. 
It is only to be seen on heavy fogs attached to the surface of the land 
or sea. True, this Avhite rainbow is not one of those phenomena which 
strongly captivate the imagination ; but it is enough for the honor of 
our colleague to remark that all physicists and Newton himself had left 



164 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

it without explanation. His memoir has filled a gap in the labors of 
the first masters of science. 

Tlie rainbow is not the only phenomenon which describes on the vault 
of the heavens geometrical figures more or less brilliant, more or less 
vividly colored. Parhelions and halos, less frequent, but not less strik- 
ing than the rainbow, are formed under circumstances so visibly differ- 
ent, that, fiir from appearing of good augury, they have been regarded 
by tlie amazed populations as signs of divine wrath. Mariotte had pro- 
posed to attribute these luminous apparitions to the action exerted on 
the rays of the sun or moon by the frozen particles which remain, for 
some time, suspended in the atmosphere before falling in the form of 
snow or rain. But Huyghens had combated this explanation, and, for 
more than a century, it had been left in abandonment. Brandes, Young, 
Galle, Kiimtz, and other celebrated physicists, however, had recurred to 
it with better success. But M. Bravais has removed all doubts by rep- 
resenting by formulas, reduced with the ingenuity of which he possessed 
the secret to great simplicity, the course of the reflected and refracted 
rays, and by deducing from their discussion the forms, however strange, 
of the observed phenomena. 

According to the greater or less depression of the temperature of the 
elevated regions of the atmosphere, the vapor is there condensed into 
water which gives rain, or into particles of ice which produce snow, sleet, 
or hail. The ice crystallizes in regular hexagonal prisms, which, in their 
most elementary form, are terminated by plane faces perpendicular to 
the axis of the prism. The prism is sometimes much elongated, some- 
times, on the contrary, extremely short. In the first case the frozen 
l)articles formed in the air are small needles of microscopic diameter; 
in the second they are small hexagonal or stellate plates, of a thickness 
hardly measureable. In both cases these little crystals are very light. 
They dance in the air like those grains of dust which are seen quivering 
by myriads in a sunbeam. They fall, however, though slowly, in air 
perfectly calm. Although microscopic, they have forms of the utmost 
exactness, for the regularity of crystallizatiou is never more admirable 
than in the smallest particles of matter. 

When the frozen particles are acicular prisms, the luminous rays pro- 
ceeding from the sun or the moon, in being refracted across two faces 
not contiguous of the prism, under the angle of minimum deviation, are 
broken and pursue their route, by making with their first direction an 
angle of about 22°. In this case, if the small prisms quiver in the air, 
a colored arc is produced comparable to a rainbow, but of 22° only of 
radius, of which the luminous body occupies the center and in which 
the red band is situated on the inner side. This is the halo of 22°, the 
most frequent of all. If the small prisms, or only a part of them, fall 
gently through tranquil air, and take a vertical position, there is 
formed, on each side of the sun and at the same height, an image of 
that body which is called a parhelion, and which is distant from it, very 
nearly as is the arc of the halo, about 22°. The rays of light which 
are refracted, at the angle of minimum deviation, across a diedral 
angle of 90°, like that which results from tbe rectangular incidence of 
the faces of the hexagonal prism on its bases, are more strongly deflected 
than in the preceding case and produce the halo of 40°. If the prisms 
are vertical, they give rise to horizontal circles, decked with very lively 
colors, which are tangents to the upper part or to the lower part of the 
halo of 4GO. 

When the frozen particles have the form of small, very thin hexagonal 
I)lates, the diedral angles of 90°, presented by the outUue of their base, 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 165 

concur in the formation of the halo of 46^; and should their fall through 
tranquil air render one of their diagonals vertical, the parhelion of iG^ and 
the anthelion make their appearance. The rays reflected, without disper- 
sion of cok^rs, on the vertical faces of the i)risms and hexagonal tablets 
produce the parhelic circle of M. Babinet, which is brilliant but colorless. 

Other combinations may be conceived, almost all realized in nature ; 
moreover, the microscopic crystals of ice, besides their principal faces, 
sometimes present secondary tacets, which also give rise to refractions 
and reflections, the effect of which is to break the ray of light, in each 
case, under a special angle. The analysis of all the possible cases of 
this kind, and the complete explanation which results therefrom of all 
the phenomena observed, even the most singular and most rare, fur- 
nished M. Bravais the subject of the consummate memoir which is fresh 
in the admiration of learned Europe. 

Considering the phenomenon under all points of view, M. Bravais 
completes the study which M. Arago had given to the polarization of 
light in halos properly so-called, by extending it to all the parts of me- 
teors of this nature. 

Equally skilled as an experimenter, and versed in the management 
of analytic formulas, he conceives an ingenious apparatus which, by the 
rapid rotation of a transparent prism with vertical axis, represents with 
much exactness the multitude of needles or vertical flakes of ice sus- 
pended in the atmosphere, whose horizontal movement, dispersed in all 
directions, produces the greatest number of atmospheric illuminations. 
By means of this new instrnment, and of artificial light, we are able to 
reproduce in a cabinet of physics most of the phenomena of meteoro- 
logical optics. 

In Lapland and on Mont Blanc M. Bravais had had numerous oi)por- 
tunities of observing the crystalline forms of sno\v. He had often met 
with admirable crystallizations of congealed water, and had always de- 
srfL-ribed them with a peculiar predilection. In his memoir on halos he 
employs the notations and formulas which represent the crystalline sys- 
tem of the ice, as one perfectly conversant with them and thoroughly 
master of their principle. But he did not stop there, and his studies 
eventually extended to the whole science of crystallography-. 

In his view crystals are assemhlages of molecules, identical as regards 
one another, and similarly oriented or arranged, which — being reduced 
in thought to a single point, their center of gravity — are disposed in 
rectilinear and parallel rows, in each of which the distance of two points 
is constant. 

The points of an assemblage are aligned in rows, corresponding to an 
endless number of different directions ; but the knowledge of three rows 
not parallel and not comprised in the same plane is sufficient completely 
to determine the assemblage of which they form a part. An infinitude 
of assemblages entirely different may be conceived. By a profound 
mathematical study M. Bravais had succeeded in discovering the de- 
grees of syumietry, more or less great, of which they are susceptible. 
He finds the axes and the planes of symmetry which they may present, 
and establishes that according to the number and arrangement of these 
axes i\in\ planes of symmetry, the rt6'se/»6/«^e.s- possessing them are divided 
into six elasscs. By adding-^ to these the asymmetrie assemblages, in 
which there exist neither axes nor planes of symmetry, we have seven 
classes of assemblages. Thus are evolved the most simple and general 
laws of the symmetry observed in crystals, and the adoption, in crys- 
tallography, of secen erystalUne systems is a necessary conse(iuence. Of 
this Haily had had an indistinct percejJtion j but he concluded that two 



166 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

of the s,,-stems niiglit be bleuded in a single one, and after him all crys- 
tallo<irai)liers had admitted six crystaUine fii/stcms only. M. Bravais 
demonslmtcs that it is necessary to retnrn to the number seven, and this 
demonstration, accompanied by all the light which results from a ge- 
ometric analysis so profound as his, is no slight addition to the immor 
tal creation of Haiiy. Lagrange and Laplace had foHowed, in 1784, the 
lessons of the ingenious investigator of crystals, but had been content 
with simply admiring them. The grounds of the beautiful science due 
to his genius had never been studied from so high a point and with so 
much generality as in the memoir of M. Bravais on the systems formed 
by points ; a memoir to wliicli our illustrious Cauchy has, in a remarka- 
ble report, given liis most unreserved sanction. 

You do not expect me, gentlemen, to enter here into the detail of pro- 
ceedings, though simple, yet rigorous, by which in a second memoir, en- 
titled Mudes crystallognqjhiques, replacing empirical rules by the theo- 
rems of geometry, M. Bravais deduced from his fundamental results 
all the formulas of crystallography with tliat marvellous facility which 
denotes almost infallibility in the radical vsolution of the difficulties of 
a subject. Being limited as to time I shall restrict myself to the state- 
ment that in the second part of this memoir, ceasing to regard the mo- 
lecules as points and considering them as small bodies, which he calls 
atomic polyhedrons, he throws light upon the relations which exist be- 
tween these latter and the various crystalline systems. He reduces to 
simple laws the phenomenon, until then almost unknown, of the hemi- 
hedral, upon which our learned fellow-member, M. Delafosse, in a justly 
celebrated memoir, has diffused unexpected light. M. Bravais demon- 
strates that he could exhibit twenty-live cases of hemihedral forms, of 
which only eleven had before been discovered, though these were for a 
long time amply sufficient to exercise the sagacity of crystallographers. 

Not forgetting dimorphism, one of the claims of Mitsoherlich to dis- 
tinction, nor the curious discoveries previously made by our ingenious 
fellow-member, M. Pasteur, M. Bravais, in a third memoir, gives the 
results of his equally successful labors on the peculiar form of crystal- 
lization exhibited in a mineral called made and hemitropes, which had 
been in their turn a stumbling-block to the crystallographer. About this 
time he was also at work upon investigations relative to the connection 
of atmospheric optics and crystallization, as well as composing various 
memoirs upon subjects entirely different, but relating for the most part 
to meteorology, some of which are not the less remarkable from being 
6ntside of this branch of physical geography. 

He was endowed with a remarkable facility for all kinds of intellect- 
ual labor, and he possessed the rare faculty of occupying himself at the 
same time with the most varied subjects : hydrography, navigation, 
astronomy, atmospheric optics, physics, properly so called, geometry, 
crystallography, pure analysis, and natural sciences, were at once the 
subjects of his investigations. It might be said of him, notwithstand- 
ing the apparent opposition of words, that the universal was his spe- 
cialty. 

All his memoirs have received honorable notice in our " Comptcs- 
Rendus,'^ and met with merited success by their publication in the most 
esteemed scientific transactions of the day. They continually present 
ingenious and frequently profound conceptions, which are well worthy 
of special attention, but which, for want of time, I am not at present 
able to specify. The works of Bravais, taken in their totality, are of 
immense extent, and 1 am forced to limit myself to a sketch of the prin- 
cipal treatise. . As an astronomer, called upon to give an abridged idea 
of the firmament, can only speak in detail of the stars of the first mag- 



MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 167 

nitude, so I must be content merely to mention among the works of M. 
Bravnis those which form his chief chiim to the approbation of the 
Academy. 

By Ills imesti^'ations on crystallography he associated his name with 
that of the immortal Haiiy ; from his ascension of Mont Blanc he con- 
nected it with that of De Saussnre ; in his work on Lapland he was the 
worthy foiitiiuiator of the celebrated voyages of Leopold von Bach, ami 
of the profonnd studies of Hansteen. His memoirs upon halos, parhe- 
lions, and upon the white rainbow, completed in the most happy manuer 
the theories of Mariotte, of Hnyghens, and even of Descartes and Xew- 
ton. After such achievements, gentlemen, the name of M. Bravais could 
no longer remain separated from those of the members of the Academy. 
In the beginning of the year 1S54, by the death of Admiral Boassjn, a 
place was made vacant in the section of geography and navigation which 
M. Bravais was elected to fill. You were right in supposing that this 
was in your ranks the most befitting place for a sailor and a traveler 
who had enriched l3y so large and so varied, a mass of observations the 
domain of pliysical geography. 

Admitted to a seat in the Academy, M. Bravais testified his gratitude 
by his assiduity, by the number and importance of his comnnmications. 
Still he did not enjoy as he would have done several years previous, the 
honor, long and ardently desired, which crowned so worthily an ex- 
tended career of labor illuminated with flashes of genius. He was no 
longer what he had been; a visible change was wrought upon him. A 
veil of sadness was thrown over that countenance, marked with open- 
ness, modesty, and amiability. Ar the close of the year 184:7 M. Bra- 
vais was united in marriage to Mademoiselle Antoinette Moutie, of 
Paris; and he found in this union all the charms of a new life. His 
time divided between the pleasures of family intercourse and the con- 
tinuation of his works, he had never labored with more ardor nor taken 
a more active part in scientific enterprise. Independently of his innu- 
merable publications, he had assisted in establishing the Annuaire Me- 
fcorologique de France, and was one of the principal founders of the 
Meteorological Society, which, at its first session, in 1852, elected him 
its annual president. But the year 1853, which preceded his election to 
the Academy, was for him one of disastrous auspices. At the com- 
mencement of this fiital year he lost his father, the venerable friend 
who, having beeu his first teacher, continued deeply interested in his 
labors, regarding them with tenderness mixed vrith noble pride. Altuost 
at the same time his onlj" son was taken from him by an epidemic of which 
the fatal influence was particularly felt at Parisamong children. This was 
a mortal blow, from which he never recovered. Peculiarly susceptible 
to family affection, which was the charm and support of liis life, with 
his father disappeared the enchantment of his earliest and sweetest re- 
membrances. One brother died soon after ; he had lost another ten 
years previous. With his beloved child vanished forever the joys of pater- 
nity — labor still remained for him, and he applied himself without re- 
laxation. He was stimulated by the desire to rei)ly to the kind wel- 
come of the Academy, and by the counsels of his friends, who endeavored 
to win him by work from tke remembrance of his griefs. He finished a 
number of memoirs containing important results^ and evidently went 
beyond his strength. Unceasing labor soon began to tell upon him. 
Sleep fled from his eyelids during the night, and overpowered him 
during the day. This was in accordance with his feelings. He wished, 
as in his cabin of the Loiret, to consecrate his nights to work; he even 
desired, as in Lapland, to vanquish sleep by coffee; but his organs no 
longer retained the flexibility of youth. 



168 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 

Madame Bravais was convinced that labor would be a salutary diver- 
sion for her husband, while at the same time she dreaded excessive 
fatigue. Tenderness came to her aid and promi^ted her to resort to a 
plan to a\'oid this evil. It was a charming and at the same time heart- 
rending sight to see her as early as four o'clock in the morning assisting at 
his table; forgetting her own griefs, by turns endeavoring to moderate 
his ardor, and to raise his waning courage. But the evil continually in- 
creased, the work no longer amounted to anything; memory was at 
fault; he could no longer recover the ingenious ideas which he had pre- 
viously remembered without committing them to paper. He vrished to put 
the last touches to a large memoir upon mirage, which would have com- 
pleted his labors on meteorological optics, and which, with his usual 
modesty, he pronounced the most imperfect of his works. He corrected 
it; he curtailed it; he spoiled it, and, alas, finally made the sad discovery 
that it was impossible for him to comi)lete it. The darkness of the night 
seemed to shroud the intellect hitherto so active and brilliant; he left 
the Polytechnic School for ever, and we ceased to see him among us. 

A well-lcnown disease developed itself, accompanied with fever and 
great suffering. He was sustained in this trying period by deep re- 
ligious sentiments, the unalterable sweetness of his character manifest- 
ing itself in a wonderfnl resignation. 

Madame Bravais went with him to Versailles. She obtained quarters 
at the entrance of the park, and later near the Bois de Vaucressou and 
of Lamarche, changing her residence as often as was needful, in order 
to obtain new and picturesque situations. This at first seemed to please 
him, but at length ceased to produce any effect. He still took quite long 
walks Vv'ith his friends, who remained faithful to him in his misfortunes, 
particularly with Doctor Berigny, collaborator in the Anmiaire Meteo- 
rologiqne, whose unceasing devotion continued to the end. He retained 
his strength, and preserved all the sweetness and kind expression of his 
countenance, l)ut his memory was gone beyond recall. He recognized 
neither objects nor individuals, perhaps even did not always know dis- 
tinctly the one who became to him a tender mother, consecrating her life 
to relieving his sufferings, and administering to his wants. 

Some glimpse of light occasionally pierced through this cruel night, 
and gave rise to hopes which unfortunately were destined soon to vanish. 
One day he saw, on entering his chamber, his uniform as a marine 
officer, hanging over a chair; his face brightened, and a tear escaped 
from his eye. Another day he smiled on receiving a bouquet of wild 
flowers, whi(!h his sister had gathered for him and laid upon his knee. 
This was the last smile of our fellow-member; he passed away on the 
30th of I^Iarch, 1863. 

Madame Bravais only left her pillow to pray near his coffin. The 
tomb alone se]iarated her from one to whom for seven years she had 
been as a guardian angel. Having lost all whom she loved on earth, 
her only son aiul her husband, she felt as though there was no longer 
a place for her in the world. She embraced a religious life in a convent 
belonging to one of the most austere orders, where happily vshe has found 
consolation in her devotion and in the assurance which has been given 
her that the threads which were broken upon earth will be united in 
Heaven. 

Gentlemen, may the honor which you bestow to-day on the remem- 
brance of a dearly beloved husband penetrate into this asylum of grief, 
and become a balm for a wound which even time will not have power 
to heal. The voice of the heart is heard under these sacred vaults, 
where the voice of the world may not penetrate. 



MEMOIR OF C. F. P. -VON MARTIUS.* 



By CiiAKLKS Rau. 



The family of tbe celebrated botanist and ethnologist, to whose mem- 
ory this sketch is dedicated, traces its origin back to Galeottns Mar- 
tins, a famous physician and astrologer, born in 1427, at Narui, in 
Umbria. About the year 1450 he occupied a professorial chair at 
Padua, but, persecuted by the Inquisition on account of reformatory 
tendencies and compelled to leave Ita»y, he subsequently went to the 
court of the learned King Matthias Corvinus of Hungary, who ap- 
pointed him his counsellor and librarian. The descendants of Galeot- 
tns mostly spread themselves over Germany, and many are known to 
have j)ursued learned professions, thus forming- an ancestry worthy of 
their distinguished successor. 

Carl Friedri(;h Philipp von Martins was born on the 17th of April 
1794, at Erlangen, Bavaria, where his father, Ernst Wilhelm Martius, 
owned an apothecary establishment, holding at the same time the po- 
sition of honorary professor of pharmacy in the university of that city. 
A man of superior general acquirements, he was especially interested 
in botany, and has left some writings relative to his favorite study. At 
the advanced age of ninety, he publislied an interesting and well-writ- 
ten book, containing recollections of his long and eventful life. He 
died in 1840, in his ninety-third year. 

His eldest son, the subject of this sketch, was carefully educated at 
home and in the schools of Erlangen. At an early age he already dis- 
played the germs of those talents which afterward made him conspicu- 
ous in the world of letters, and, Avlien still quite young, he manifested 
a determined resolution to devote himself to a scientific career. Though 
his juvenile inclinations leaned toward natural history, he also exhibited 
much taste for the study of ancient classics, a tendency which, nurtured 
by skillful teachers, not only develoi)ed and strengthened his intel- 
lectual capacities, but also enabled him, when in alter years he 
composed many of his writings in Latin, to express himself in 
that language with a precision and elegance not often met with 
in our time. In fact, during his whole life the reading of Latin 
and Greek authors formed one of his principal recreations. When 
only sixteen years of age, Martius w^as admitted, in 1810, as a 
student in the university of his native town. He had decided to 
prepare himself for the medical i)rot'ession, chiefly because this study 
afforded hiui the widest field for indulging in his love for natural 
sciences. His favorite branch, botany, was then taught at Erlangen by 
a pupil of Linnanis, the learned Schreber, who does not seem, however, 
to have been gifted with a happy method of imparting information j 
hence Martius and his fellow-students felt more attracted by the lectures 

* Note.— It is l)iit fair to state that most of tlio facts contain oil in this sketch have been 
furnished by C. F. Meissner'n DeiiLschrift aiif Carl Fricdr. Fhil. von Martiu.'i, (Munich, 
18G9.) The article Cnii PMUpp von Martins, sein Leben und seine Leistungen, la the 
Ansland, (No. 38, 1869,) has also been used. 



170 MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VOX MARTIUS. 

of other professors of the university, such as Hildebrandt, Harless, 
Goklfuss, Vogel, Wendt, and others who flourished at that period. In 
1814 Martins received the diphiina of doctor onedicinw, having ])assed 
with honors the examination necessary to obtain that grade. His in- 
augural dissertation was a critical catalogue of the plants in the botan- 
ical garden of Erlangen.* In this first literary attempt, which forms an 
octavo volume of 210 pages, he followed the classification of Linnaeus. 
Shortly afterward we find Martins among the elcves of the Eoyal Acade- 
my of Sciences at Munich, deeply engaged in botanical studies, and 
appointed assistant to Schrank, the conservator of the botanical garden. 
An excellent opportunity being thus offered to the young botanist of 
enlarging the knowledge already acquired, he devoted himself with en- 
thusiastic zeal to a pursnit that harmonized so well with his taste. 
While in this jjosition he published his Flora Gryptogamka UrJiwgcnsis, 
{Norimhcrgoij 1^11 j) a work already begun at Erlangen, which embraced 
his first independent investigations, and attracted by its merits consid- 
erable attention from competent botanists. His superior talents, com- 
bined with an indefatigable industry and excellent personal qualities, 
could not fail to endear him to the older members of the Academy, men 
eminent in their special departments of science, who exerted a most bene- 
ficial and lasting influence on his mind. Indeed, he was placed in an 
enviable j)osition ; fortune smiled on him and smoothed his i^ath to dis- 
tinction. One circumstance, however, must be particularly mentioned 
in this place ; for it is that on w liich his future success in life chiefly 
depended. The King of Bavaria, Max Joseph I, an ardent lover of 
botany, frequently visited the botanical garden of his capital, on which 
occasions he usuallj^ selected Martins for his companion and guide. 
Thus becoming acquainted with the young naturalist's acquirements 
and talents, he honored him with his special favor, and seized upon 
the first opportunity of showing his good will in a practical manner. 
This excellent monarch had for some time conceived the plan of sending 
scientific explorers to South America, and in 1815 he had already con- 
ferred with the Academy in relation to this matter ; yet two years 
elapsed before the realization of his design. In 1817, when the Austrian 
Archduchess Leopoldina, the bride of the crown-prince of Brazil, after- 
ward Emperor Dom Pedro I, was about to depart for the New World, 
Metternich caused some Austrian savants, charged with scientific labors 
in Brazil, to be added to the suite of the iirincess. The Bavarian gov- 
ernment, wishing to profit by this occasion, asked, and was granted, 
permission to send in the same vessel two naturalists, who, upon their 
arrival in South America, were to carry on their investigations inde- 
pendently of the Austrian corps. For this purpose Max Joseph selected 
as botanist his gifted protege Martins, then a young man of twenty- 
three, and Johann Baptist von Spix, a member of the Academy, who 
was to take charge of the zoological department. On the 2d of April, 
1817, the party left the harbor of Trieste in the Austrian frigaf e Austria, 
and touching at Malta, Gibraltar and Madeira, reached Eio Janeiro, 
after a prosperous ^'oyage, in the middle of July. One may easily 
imagine the feelings of the two travelers, especiall}^ of the youthful and 
enthusiastic Martius, when they stood upon the soil of the wonderful 
country that lay before them with all its treasures of nature — the very 
El Dorado of a naturalist, then far less explored than at the present 
time, and promising the richest harvest in every field of natural science. 
On the 8th of December, 1817, the two Bavarian savants set out on 
their exijedition into the interior. Having first visited the province of 

* Plantarum Horti Academici Erlangensis Enumeratio. Erlanga, 1814. 



MEMOIR OF C. F. P VON MARTIUS. 171 

San Paolo, tliey passed in a northeasterly direction tbrougli tlie prov- 
ince of Minas Cferaes as lar as ^liuas Xovas ; tlien tbrongh the Serra 
Diamantina, touching- the province of Goyaz, when they turned again 
toward the northeast and proceeded to San Salvador, the cai)ital of the 
province of Bahia. They arrived there in November 1818, After a 
short sojourn at this place, and having visited the Botocudos and other 
adjacent Indian tribes, they continued their journey toward tlie north, 
traversing the provinces of Pernambnco, Piauhy, and Maranhao, until 
they readied San Luiz, situated at the mouth of the Itapicuru. From 
there they went by sea to the estuary of the Amazon River, arriving at 
Para in June 1819. They then ascended this mighty stream for more 
than two-thirds of its length, as far as Tabatinga, close to the fi ontier 
of Peru. The travelers having separated for awhile to visit different 
parts of this region, Martins "explored one of the tributaries of the 
Amazon, the Kio Japura, (Yupura) until he arrived at the cataract 
Salto Grande de Araracoara, which impeded a further advance. The 
larger affluents of the great river, the Eio Negro and Rio Madeira, were 
likewise explored some distance, the latter as far as the districts of the 
Mnndrucii and Maulie Indians. It must be remembered that the navi- 
gation of those waters, which is now greatly facilitated by steam ves- 
sels, had then to be performed in hired or purchased boats, which, being- 
manned with Indian rowers, aftbrded hardly room for the travelers and 
their ever increasing- luggage, and offered no other protection against 
the burning equatorial sun and the heavy rains but a slight cover con- 
structed of boughs. Amid a multitude of inconveniences, and some- 
times exposed to real danger, tliey had to keep their journals, and to 
prepare and preserve the natural objects obtained during their excur- 
sions on the banks ; yet the collections they brought back, which now 
enrich the museums of Munich, bear evidence of their great success.* 
Descending- the Amazon, they sirrived again in Para in the middle of 
April 1820. Two months afterward they embarked for Lisbon, and 
reached Munich in December 1820, after an absence of nearly four years. 
The expedition of Spix and Martins certainly ranks among the most 
important enterprises undertaken for scientific purposes in this century. 
Their explorations extended over a distance of nearly one thousand 
four hundred geographical miles, and have, like the travels of Alex- 
ander von Humboldt, furnished the material for numerous works em- 
bracing- many departments of science ; indeed, the period of nearly half 
a century, which has elapsed since the return of the naturalists, was 
not sufficient for fully developing, and giving to the scientific world, all 
results of their researches. Since La Condamine descended the Ama- 
zon, Spix and Martins were the first learned Europeans who visited 
those mighty waters; and though others had previously exi)lored cer- 
tain portions of Brazil, the country, on the whole, still remained com- 
paratively unknown. Hence the importance of the Bavarian expedi- 
tion. The names of Spix and Martins are intimately connected with the 
natural history and ethnology of the empire, and will be gratefully 
remembered in future times by all those who take a scientific interest in 
that country, or wish to inform themselves concerning its condition in 
the early part of our century. 

"^ Besides valuable miaeralojj;ical aud geological specimeus, their collectious embraced : 
mammals, 85 species; birds, 350; amphibia, 130; tisbes, 116; iusects, 2,700 ; arachiiidae 
and crnstaceaus, each 50 ; plants, about 6,500. The latter, mostly represented by sev- 
eral specimens and carefully preserved, constitute now the most valuable portion of 
the royal herbarium at Munich. The botanical garden also received its share, partly 
in living plants, partly in such as were raised from the collected seeds. The whole 
was placed under the care of the Academy. 



172 MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS. 

The Brazilian voyage laid the foundation of Martins' futnre success. 
On the very day of their return, he and Spix were decorated by the 
King with the civil order of Bavaria, and shortly afterward Martins was 
elected a member of the Koyal Academy, and appointed second con- 
servator of the botanical garden. At the age of twenty-six Martius 
already enjoyed a reputation which, in common life, is usually only 
acquired by men of riper years ', for not many are favored with advan- 
tages such as were offered to him. His sojourn in a country i^erfectly 
new to him, aud hence the necessity of acting iudependently, had made 
him self-reliant and practical, while the number of objects constantly 
claiming his attention had served to quicken his power of perception, 
and to develop all those qualities which, when combined, constitute the 
true naturalist. His experiences in the wilds of Brazil were to him a far 
better school than many years spent in constant closet-study. 

His return from Brazil marked the beginning of a long-continued lit- 
erary activity, resulting in highly important works, to which reference 
will be made hereafter. As an event of this period we have also to 
record his marriage with an accomj^lished lady of noble descent, a union 
which gave him a home and a family, and promoted in no small degree 
the happiness of his existence. The domestic circle was to him through- 
out life an asylum of peace and contentment, where he rested from his 
professional labors, enjoying the society of his family and of numerous 
friends who loved to gather under his hospitable roof. A great change 
occurred in Martins' position in the year 1826, when King Ludwig I, 
who had ascended the throne of Bavaria, transferred the university of 
Landshut to Munich, aud appointed him professor of botany. Six years 
later, the first conservator of the botanical garden. Yon Schrank, being 
then very old, retired from office, and Martius was installed in his place. 
He was eminently qualified for discharging the duties now incumbent 
on him. Perfectly acquainted with his science, he possessed the faculty 
of i)resenting it in an easy and attractive manner. He spoke with ele- 
gance and fluency, and sometimes, when carried away by the subject, 
his eloquence even partook of a poetical character. For practical de- 
monstration thebotanical garden, carefully superintended by Martius, and 
the herbarium, afforded ample means, to which must be added frequent 
botanical excursions undertaken in company with the students, with 
whom he entertained very amicable relations, gaining their affections 
no less by conscientious instruction than by the benevolent, paternal 
friendship he bestowed on them. Among the number of his pupils who 
became x)rominent, may be named Alexander Brauu, Hugo von Mohl, 
Carl Schimper, O. Sendtner, C. H. Schultz-Bipoutinus, and Spring. 

In 1840 Martius was elected secretary of the physico-mathematical 
class of the Academy, an honorary office imposing much labor, which 
he performed until his death with care and punctuality, aud great ad- 
vantage to that scientific body. By this position he was charged with 
all correspondence and literary exchanges with other learned institu- 
tions, and whenever a foreigu or resident member of the Academy died 
it was his duty to deliver an address commemorative of the lite aud 
merits of the deceased. These eulogies have been much admired for 
the excellent style in which they are composed, and the skill displayed 
in the general treatment. They are deemed fully equal to the celebrated 
eloges by Cuvier and Flourens.* 

■* The eulogies road by Martius are coutained iu au octavo volume of 610 pages, 
entitled Akademische Dcnkreden von C. F. Ph. von Martins, {Leipzig, 1866.) Those of a 
later date (ou Faraday, Brewster, Flourens, &c.) were published in the transactions of 
the Academy of the year 1868. 



MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MAETIUS. 



173 



For the rest, the professioual career of Martms is not marked by auy 
striking: iucideuts. Lectures, literary labors, and the superintendence 
of the botanical garden fully occupied his time, and his tsavels, after 
the American voyage, extended not farther than France, Belgium, Hol- 
land, England, and Switzerland. He used to spend his summer vaca- 
tions in the pictm-esque Bavarian mountains, especially at Schlehdorf, 
ou the Kochel-See, where his hospitable house formed a rallying-place 
for his numerous friends, who remember with feelings of gratitude the 
days passed there amid delightful natural scenes and in a highly intel- 
lectual, refined society. Though of a vigorous constitution. Von Martins 
was in later years subject to those chronic indispositions which usually 
result from the sedentary habits of men of letters, and he found himself 
therefore obliged to resort repeatedly to watering i>laces, esi)ecially to 
the mineral springs of Kissingen. The salutary effect derived from the 
use of these waters was in some measure counteracted by the bustle 
and distractions peculiar to such localities ; for, meeting there distin- 
guished friends, and being, moreover, naturallj' inclined to social life, 
the mental excitement produced was rather unfavorable to the improve- 
ment of his i)hysical condition. 

In the year 1854 an unexpected event caused the premature termina- 
tion of Martins' official activity. It was decided by the government 
that the glass building for the industrial exhibition then to be held at 
Munich should be erected within the area of the botanical garden, 
■which had but lately undergone great improvements at a sacrifice of 
much time and labor. It was in vain that Martins remonstrated against 
a measure which threatened his beh)ved institution with serious disad- 
vantages, and when he found his objections unavailing, he finally re- 
signed, deeply disappointed, both his professorship and the superintend- 
ence of the botanical garden. 



The literary activity of Professor Yon Martins was very great. The 
writer has in his possession a printed list of his works and minor writ- 
ings, which embraces no less than one hundred and sixty titles. A 
number of these publication's are written in the Latin language, and 
most of them, of course, relate to botany, his S])ecialty in science ; but 
there are also valuable contributions to ethnology among them. In 
treating of his merits as an author, it is proper to mention first the nar- 
rative of the Brazilian voyage performed by him and Spix.* This is a 
substantial and most carefully prepared work, in three quarto volumes, 
accompanied by an atlas of large size. The volumes appeared respect- 
ively in 1823, 1828, and 1831 ; Spix, however, died in 182G, and hence 
the two last volumes were almost entirely written by Martins alone. 
Every one who examines this work must be struck by the vast amount 
of varied information it contains, for the travelers directed their atten- 
tion not merely to the natural history of Brazil, but investigated also 
with searching care everything else within their reach which they 
deemed worthy of inquiry. The nature of the country, its productions, 
different races, social condition, commerce, agriculture, mining, statis- 
tics, »l^c., are treated with a surprising minuteness, and, where the sub- 
ject is of an elevated character, in a superior style, which has repeatedly 

* Ecise in BrasUku, aitf Befchl Sr. llajestnt Maximilian Joseph I, Eiinigs von Baycrn, in 
den Jahren 1817, 1818, 1819 und 1820 ficinaelit, uiid hcschrieben von J. B. von Sjiix und C. F. 
Ph. von Martins. Three vols., 4to; Munich, 1823-81; ^yith au atlas. 

There is au English trauslatiou of the tirst volume by H. E. Lloyd; Loudon, 1824, 
2 vols., 8vo.; plates reduced to the size of the volumes. 



174 MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS. 

elicited the praise of Goethe, the great master of German composition. 
In fact, certain portions of tlie work, sucli as give the impressions pro- 
dnced upon the travelers by the sublime natural scenes of Brazil, have 
passed into collections containing model pieces of German prose.* The 
large atlas, ornamented with a well-executed allegorical title-page, 
comprises maps, orographical diagrams, i)anoramic views of mountain 
chains, landscapes, representations of typical animals and plants, and 
quite a number of plates illustrating the domestic and hunting life, the 
feasts, dances, and ceremonies of the aboriginal inhabitants. Their 
fabrics and arms are figured on two plates. In addition, there are many 
faithfully executed, large portraits of Indians of various tribes, exhibit- 
ing their peculiar features and the curious manner in which they dis- 
figure their ears, lips, and chins by the insertion of ornaments. Of 
particular interest are wsome plates containing representations of figures 
sculptured on rocks, as aifording the means of comparing the pictogra- 
phy of the Brazilian aborigines with that of other indigenous inhabit- 
ants of the American continent. 

On the whole, the narrative of Spix and Martins is one of the most 
important and comprehensive works of travel published in modern 
times, equaling in merit the researches of Humboldt relative to Mex- 
ico and other parts of America. It will remain a lasting monument of 
the zeal and perseverance of its authors, and an honorable testimo- 
nial to the enlightened prince who brought about its realization. 

Simultaneously with the account of their travels, Spix and Martins 
began to prepare their strictly scientific works on the botany and zoo- 
logy of Brazil ; the former department, of course, being in charge of 
Martins, while Spix treated the subject of zoology. But as Spix had 

* Wc cannot refrain from inserting here, as a specimen, the description of evenings 
spent at the conntry honse of Mr. Yon Laugsdortf, near Rio Janeiro : 

"Nothing can be compared to the beanty of this retreat when the most snltry hour8 
of the day are past, and gentle breezes, impregnated Avith balsamic perfumes from the 
neighboring wooded mountains, cool the au-. This enjoyment continues to increase as 
the night spreads over the land and the sea, which shines at a distance, and the city, 
where'^tho noise of business has subsided, is gradually lighted. He who has not per- 
sonally experienced the enchantment of tranquil moonlight nights in these happy 
latitudes can never be inspired, even by the most faithful description, with those feel- 
ings which scenes of such wondrous beauty excite in the mind of the beholder. A 
delicate, transparent mist hangs over the country, the moon shines brightly amidst 
heavy and singularly grouped clouds ; the outlines of the objects which are illuminated 
by it are clear and well detiued, while a magic twilight seems to remove fi-om the eye 
those which are in the shade. Scarce a breath of air is stirring, and the neighboring 
mimosas, that have folded up their leaves to sleep, stand motionless beside the dark 
crowns of the manga, the jaca, and the ethereal jambos; or sometimes a sudden wind 
arises, and the juiceless leaves of the acaju rustle, the richly flowered grumijama and 
pitano-a let drop a fragrant shower of snow-white blossoms; the crowns of the ma- 
jestic'iialms wave slowly over the silent roof which they overshade, like a symbol of 
peace and tranquillity. Shrill cries of the cicada, the grasshopper, and the tree-frog 
make an incessant hum, and produce by their monotony, a pleasing melancholy. A 
stream, gently murmuring, descends from the mountains, and the macuc, {Penlrix fimja- 
nensis,) with 'its almost human voice, seems to call for help from a distance. Every 
quarter of an hour different balsamic odors fill the air, and other flowers alternately 
unfold their leaves to the night, and almost overpower the senses with their perfume ; 
now it is the bowers of paullinias, or the neighboring orange grove, then the thick 
tufts of the eupatoria, or the bunches of the flowers of the palms, suddenly bursting, 
which disclose their blossoms, and thus maint.ain a constant succession of fragrance. 
While the silent vegetable world, illuminated by swarms of fire-flies, as by a thousand 
moving stars, charms the night by its delicious effluvia, brilliant lightnings play 
incessantly in the horizon and elevate the mind in joyful admiration to the stars, 
which, glowing in solemn silence in the firmament above the continent and ocean, fill 
the soul with a presentiment of still sublimer wonders. In the enjoyment of the 
peaceful and magic influence of such nights, the newly-arrived European remembers 
with tender longings his native home, till the luxuriant scenery of the tropics has 
become to him a second country."— (English translation, vol. i, p. 160.) 



MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS. 175 

died iji 1820, the assistance of Agassiz, Perty, and Andreas Wagner 
was required to continue the zooU)gical hibors, which resulted in the 
publication of several folios with beau tifully executed plates. We men- 
tion the following : 

!N"ew species of Brazilian monkeys and bats, by Spix.* New spe- 
cies of lizards, snakes, turtles, and frogs, by Spix.t New si^ecies of 
birds, by Spix4 Fluviatile testaceans, by J. A. Wagner.§ Fishes, by 
Agassiz.ll Insects, by Perty.*]] 

In treating of the Brazilian flora,** Martins first confined himself to a, 
selection of the plants collected by him, which he described in two 
works, entitled JVoi'« Genera ct Species I lantarum Brasilicnsiumjj and 
Icones Selects Plantarum Cri/ptogamicarum Br((silicv.Xt In tlie ])repara- 
tion of the first volume of the first-named work, which describes the 
phanerogamous plants, he was assisted by his too-early-deceased col- 
league Zuccarini. The object of the Icones Selectw, ttc, is indicated in 
the title. To the latter work Hugo von Mold contributed an excellent 
treatise on the structure of the stems of tree-ferns. Both works are 
highly esteemed. They contain full and precise descriptions of single 
plants as well as of whole series and groups of kindred species ; and it 
is particularly worthy of notice that many of these monographic trea- 
tises have laid the foundation of a thorough knowledge of the plants 
to which they i-elate. The drawings of whole plants and their anatom- 
ical details are executed with a degree of faithfulness and art surpass- 
ing almost anything of a similar character that had previously appeared 
in the literature of botany. 

As early as 1823 Martius began the publication of his " Natural His- 
tory of Palms,"§§ a work which is considered his most important contri- 
bution to botany, and that by which he has most conspicuously' linked 
his name for future times with that science. At the first sight of these 
majestic trees, which Linnaeus already had designated as the " princes 
of the vegetable kingdom," he conceived the plan of making them the 
object of his special observation and scientific treatment. He, there- 
fore, studied with attention the many species of j^alms he saw during 
his travels in Brazil, and collected after his return from that country 
with the utmost diligence all the material concerning the palms of other 
parts of the world, which was required to render his work complete. 
He thus succeeded, after the labor of manj' years, in producing a mono- 
graph unique in its kind, which caused Alexander von Humboldt to 
exclaim, " As long as palms are known and mentioned, the name of 

* Simiarum ct FespertiUonum Brasilicnfiium SxKcies Novco. Ed. J. B. dc Sj)ix. Monacliii, 
1823. Large folio, with 38 coloi'cd pltites. 

t Animalia Nova, s. Species Novw Lacertarum, Scrpcntum, Tcstudmum, Banarnm, qnas in 
Itinere per BrasUiam a. 1817-'20 suscepto, colleyit ct dcscripsit J. B. dc Spix. Monacliii, 
1824-'3y. Folio, with 95 colored plates. 

X Avium Species Xovw qnas in Itinere per Brasiliam a. 1817-'20 suscepto coUegit et dcscrip- 
sit J. B. dc Spix. Monacliii, 1824-25. Two volumes folio, with 115 aud 118 colored 
plates. 

§ Testac^a Fluviatilia qua; colle(jit J. B. dc Spix, dcscripsit J. A. Wagner, cdd. F. 

a Paula dc Schranlc et C. F. P. de Marlins. Monacliii, 1827. Folio, witli 29 colored plates. 

II Selecta Genera et Species Fiscium quos collegit et pingcndoa curavit J. B. de 

Sjyix, digessit L. Agassis, ed. Martins. Monacliii, 1829. Folio, with plates. 

H Delectus Animalinm Articnlatorum quw collegcrunt Spix et Martius, d('scri2)sit 

Max. Fertg, ed. Martius. Monacliii, 1830-34. Folio, with 40 colored plates. 

** Not being a botanist himself, aud consequently tmacquaiuted with most of the 
works mentioned hereafter, the writer keeps closely to the statements given by Pro- 
fessor Meissner in his Denksclirift. 

tt Monacliii, 1823-30. Three volumes folio, with 300 colored plates. 

tt Monacliii, 1826-'31. Small folio, with 76 colored plates. 

^'^S Ilistoria Naturalis Pahnarum. Monacliii, 1823-50. Three volumes imperial folio, 
with 245 plates, partly colored. 



176 MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VOX MARTIUS. 

Martins will not be forgotten ! " Certain specialties embraced in this 
large work were treated by skillful co-laborers : the anatomy, by H. von 
Mohl ; the fossil palms, by linger ; and a part of the morphology by 
Alexander Branu and O. Sendtner. 

While the preceding works were commenced and in i^rogress, Martins 
entered ui)on another literary undertaking of still larger extent, namely, 
the systematic enumeration and description of the wliolc flora of Brazil. 
But as a labor of such magnitude could not be carried out without the 
assistance of persons in high stations, the patronage of King Ludwig I, 
of Bavaria, and of the Emperor of Austria, Ferdinand I, was success- 
fully solicited, and the work commenced nnder their auspi(;es.* The 
Emperor Dom Pedro II, of Brazil, afterward nnited his aid to that of the 
two German sovereigns. At the outset Martins had secured the co- 
operation of competent botanists, each of whom was to take charge of a 
certain portion of the work ; and their nnited eftbrts resulted in the 
publication of the Flora Brasiliensis^] one of the greatest literary achieve- 
ments of our time. The work was commenced in 1840, and though yet 
far from completion, already consists of forty-seven parts, with more 
than eleven hundred plates in folio. jSTotwithstanding the ample mate- 
rial which Martins had at his command, the researches necessary to 
arrive at full and satisfactory results extended over many botanical col- 
lections of Europe, and everything in the shape of manuscripts and 
drawings bearing on the subject was critically examined and used when 
found available. The immense work connected with the editing of the 
Flora i^revented Martins from participating conspicuously in the botan- 
ical labors themselves; yet he has furnished two entire monographs 
(Anonacese and Agaveae) and many highly valuable additions relating 
to the geographical distribution and the use of the plants described. 
In view of the important bearing of this publication upon the develop- 
ment of the vegetable resources of Brazil, the ambassador from that 
country to the court of Vienna lately spent some time at Munich, in 
order to confer with Professor Von Martins concerning the completion 
of the work. The Brazilian government agreed to pay 100,000 florins 
for that purpose ; but as Martins was already far advanced in years, he 
thought it expedient to appoint, in the person of Dr. Eichler, a successor 
to superintend the publication in case of his decease. Thus the work 
will suffer no interruption.^ 

* It must not be left unnoticed that the patronage of the Emperor of Austria in this 
case was owing to the influence of Prince Metteruich. This much-ahused statesman, 
it is well known, took a lively interest in the promotion of science. His letters to A. 
von Humboldt, contained in the corresj)ondence between Humboldt and Varnhagen 
von Ense, bear witness to the fact. 

t Flora BrasiUensis, s. Enmneratio riantarum in Brasilia liacfemis detectariim quae 

ediderunt C. F. Ph. de Martins et St. L. Endlicher. Vindoi. et Lips., 1840-'69, fasc. 1-47, 
folio . The iirst nine parts were edited by Martius and Endlicher ; the rest, after 
Endlicher's death, by Martius alone. 

t Of Martius' numerous less extensive publications relatmg to botany we will men- 
tion only the following: 

Rerbariiim Fierce BrasiUensis. Monacliil, 18S7-iO.—Sijstema Materia Medico; Vcgctabilis 
BrasiUensis. (8° : Leipzig, 1843.) This is a systematically arranged enumeration of the 
plants used for medicinal purxioses by the inhabitants of Brazil. The preparation, 
manner of application, and effects are carefully described. This work has been trans- 
lated into the Portuguese language by H. Velloso d'Oliveira. Eio de Janeiro, 1854. 

Specimen Maicrice Medicce BrasiUensis (in vol. ix, of the Memou's of the Academy of 
Sciences.) A number of articles likewise relating to the medicinal j^lants of Brazil and 
their uses were published in Buchnefs Ilepertorium der Fharmacie. 

Worthy of especial mention is a publication on the potato-rot : Die Kartoffd-Epidemie 
der letzten Jahre (Munich, 1843. 4°. With plates.) Martius was the first who noticed 
in the diseased fruit a microscopic fungus, called by him Fusisporium solani. He 
accounted for the spreading of the rot by the transmission of the spores of that fungus 
to sound potatoes. 



MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MAETIUS. 



177 



Having given some acconnt of Martins' more important botanical 
labors, we will briefly allnde to his great merits as an ethnologist. 
Dnring his travels in Sonth America he became deeply interested in the 
aboriginal tribes, and collected, in conjunction with his traveling com- 
panion, many valuable facts relating to their mode of life, relationship, 
languages, migrations, &c. It has already been stated that a consider- 
able portion of the "Travels in Brazil," by Spix and Martins, is devoted 
to the ethnology of that country. Martins, however, published subse- 
quently several valuable treatises relating to ethnological subjects, 
which will be mentioned hereafter; but his most important ethnologi- 
cal work, entitled Beitiiige ::ur Ethnograpliie und Sprachenlcunde Aincrikas, 
zumal Brasiliens, (Leipzig, 1807,)* which was published shortly before 
his death, and therefore contains his matured views, deserves particu- 
lar notice. The Beitmrje comprise two octavo volumes, the first of S02, 
the second of 548 pages. An ethnographic map is added to the first 
volume. Its conteuts are : 

1. Die Yerganfjenheit vnd Zulninft der ameri'kamsclien Mcnsclilieit^] a 
lecture delivered in 1838, at a meeting of German naturalists and phy- 
sicians, and first published in 1839. 

2. A republication of the admirable treatise Yon dem Rechfsznsfande 
itnter den Urehiwolmern BrasUiens^X first published in 1832. This is cer- 
tainly one of the most interesting essays ever written on American 
ethnology, although Martins' view of a degeneration of the Brazilian 
Indians from a higher state of civilization may be contrary to the 
opinions of many anthropologists. 

3. The remainder of the volume (pp. 115-801) is taken up with a 
description of the native tribes who inhabit Brazil and the adjacent 
regions. It is minute, accurate, and vivid, much more full than \Vaitz, 
and enriched by numerous personal observations. Martins is a believer 
in the gradual extension of the Tupi language and blood from the head- 
waters of the La Plata northward, quite to the Antilles and Baha- 
mas. § 

The second volume, entirely devoted to South American languages 
contains over a hundred vocabularies, which are arranged in allied 
gronps exhibiting the alfinity of tongues. Being of the utmost import- 
ance in tracing the relationship of nations, they furnish highly valuable 
material to the student of American ethnology. Many of these vocab- 
ularies are from manuscript sources. In rendering the aboriginal words 
the Latin, Portuguese, German, and French languages have been 
emi>lo,>ed. The articles Ffianzennamen in der Tupi-tSpraclieW and Thicr- 
namcn in der Tnpi-i^praclie^S\ first printed, respectively, in 1858 and 1800, 
are republished witli additions in this volume. 

Besides the above-mentioned ethnological essays reprinted in the 
Beitriifie, Martins, as stated, has left some other contributions of kindred 
character, which appeared in periodical publications. We give here the 
following titles translated into English : On the sculptures on Mount 
Gabia," near Eio Janeiro.** On Buschmaun's work — " The traces of the 

* Coutributions to the ethnography and philology of America, esj)ecially of Brazil. 

t The ])ast and future of the American race. 

t On tlie civil aud social condition of the aljorigines of Brazil. 

^ In a letter which Martins addressed, shortly l)efore his death, to Dr. D. G. Brinton, 
of Philadelphia, he expresses himself on this point even more decidedly than in the 
Beitrcigc. 

II Names of plants in the Tupi language. 

11 Names of animals in the Tupi language. 

** Ucber die Scul^pturen auf dem Berge Gabia hci Eio dc Janeiro. (GeJthie Anzci(jev, 1843, 
Nos. 38, 39.) 

12 s 



178 MEMOIR OF C. E. P. VON MARTIUS. 

Aztec language in Xortheru Mexico."* The physical condition, dis- 
eases, physicians, and remedies of the aborigines of Brazil.t On the 
preparation of the arrow-poison Urari among the Jnri Indians on the 
liio Yupura, in North Brazil.:): The creation of the Negro : a Brazilian 
legeud.§ 



The time intervening between Professor Von Martins' retirement from 
ofiicial dnties in 1854 and his death was to him no period of repose; || 
on the contrary, having now more leisure at his command, he devoted 
himself exclusively to scientific labors. Much of liis time was taken up 
in editing the Flora BrasUiensis, and his position as secretary of the 
Royal Bavarian Academy demanded his constant care and attention. 
Only one year before his death, at the age of seventy-four, he puldished 
the Beitnige, his most important contribution to American ethnology. 

He was one of those few whose merits are dnly acknowledged and 
appreciated during their life-time. He maintained intimate relations 
with many of the most distinguished men of our time, and most learned 
societies of note counted him among their members. jSTumerous works 
are dedicated to him ; his name is perpetuated in the scientific denomi- 
nations of plants and animals; even a mountain in New Zealand, Mount 
Martins, is called after him. Medals were struck in his honor, and 
crowned heads manifested their esteem by decorating him with the 
insignia of their orders. 

Martins enjoyed the full possession of his mental faculties to the last 
moment of his life, and even his physical appearance betokened no con- 
siderable degree of decline; it Avas only during the years immediately 
preceding his death that his altered features and somewhat stooping 
figure indicated the changes which advanced ago will produce upon the 
strongest constitution. But the lively expression of his eye, his ani- 
mated conversation, and the interest he took in everything that passed 
around him, gave evidence of his unimpaired mental vigor. In the fall of 
1808. being then in his seventy-fifth year, he made a journey to Berlin 
and Dresden to visit his sou and his old friends. He returned in good 
Health, and nothing intimated his approaching end. But shortly after- 
ward, having been exposed to a severe storm, he was attacked by a febrile 
ndispositiou, which, increasing, developed itself into inflamnmtion of 
lie lungs. His strength sank rapidly, and on the 13th of December, 
1808, after an illness of nine days, his earthh' career was closed by an 
easy death. Fresh palm leaves decorated, significantly, the coffin in 
which his mortal remains were conveyed to their last jilace of rest. 

* Ueher Buschmann^s Werk : Die Spnren tier Aztclcischen S])raelie im iwrdlichen Mexiko. 
{Gel. An., 1860, Xos. 41-43.) 

t Das NaturcU, die ErankJtcHcn, das Arztilmm und die Heihnitfd der Uvheivohner Bra- 
silieiis. {Biichiicrs liqwrtorimn dvr I'Jiannacic, vol. 33, p. 289, &c.) 

t Ueher die Bereitung des rfeihiiftes Urari hex den Iiidiaiterii Juris am Bio Yupura in Xord- 
hrasilien. (Bucliner's Bep. d. Bkarm., vol. 33, 1830, p. 337, &c.) 

§ Die Erscliaffung des Negcrs, eine Brasilianische Volks-Sage. (Augshurger Allgem. Zeit., 
18:39.) 

II "Der Euliestand warfiir ihn kcin Stand der Bulie." — Meissuer's Denksclirift, p. 24. 



NOTICE OF THE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF STEFANO 

MARIANINI. 



By Carlo Matteucci, 
President of the "Italian Society of Sciences, founded lij Anion Mario Lorgna." 



ITransIatcd for the Smithsonian Institution.'] 

It is not such a eulogy as is usually pronounced for the members 
whom the Italian Society of the XL may have lost that I at present 
undertake. This several reasons forbid, not the least of which is my 
own uuskillfuluess in the polished style of composition which such labors 
demand, joined to a conviction that the highest eulogy of those who 
have consecrated their lives to science consists in the record of the 
progress which it owes to their exertions, and the part reserved for them 
in its history. I shall speak, therefore, with the utmost brevity of the 
simple habits, the pure and unassuming spirit, the integrity of character, 
and the great scientific activity of Marianini, although these qualities 
constitute in themselves the best eulogy of the man, and shall dwell at 
somewhat greater length on his principal labors in physics. 

Marianini was born at Mortara, a small town of Piedmont. He was 
professor of physics at Venice, and more recently in the University of 
Modena; he was a corresponding member of the Institute of France, 
and president of the Italian Society of the XL for many years. 

The first work by which he attracted the attention of the learned w;is 
an Essay on electro-metrical experiments * a work which I remember to 
have heard spoken of, at the time, in terms of the highest praise by 
Arago. It ai^peared at Venice in 1825. On account of the original ex- 
l)eriments with which it is replete we need not hesitate to pronounce it 
the most important production of the author. When it is considered 
that in various chapters of this essay all ])arts of electro-dynamics and 
of the pile are treated by methods and with instruments which were 
then barely beginning to be known, wo need not be surjirised if the re- 
sults at which Marianini arrived at that time have not remained in 
science as he himself obtained them forty years ago. If we except the 
discoveries of elementary laws and of physico-mathematical theories, • 
this is the lot which befalls, after a certain number of years, even those 
who have opened new fields in physics. 

]\Iariauini, in this essay, began by studying the relation between the 
intensity of the current of a battery and'the extension of the elements 
and tension of the electro-motors: that is to say, the number and nature 
of the pairs which compose the pile. He then proceeded to experiment 
on the relative electromotive power of conductors of the first class, ami 
studied the phenomenon of tlie secondary current, respecting which he 
has left us some valuable experiments. lii the third chapter of the essay 
are comprised many original researches on the conductive capacity of 
liquids for electricity. It is beyond doubt that this treatise marks a 
great progress in our knowledge on the most obscure and difficult i)oints 

* Sa(j(fio di cspcricnze clcttro-metricha. 



180 LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF STEFANO MARIANINL 

of dynamic electrieity ; and the discovery tlien made by Marianini, wliicli 
may in some measure be considered as the ex])erimental basis of tlie 
theory of Ohm, is still a fundamental one, uameh', that the action of 
simple electro-motive machines ou ma.Qnets, to use his own words, is di- 
rectly proportional to their surface, and that in a circuit having- a resist- 
an(;e quasi null in comparison with that of the battery, the current of 
a pile of a single pair has the same intensity Avith that of any number 
of pairs whatever. 

In the same chapter the author studies the phenomenon of metallic 
diaphragms interposed in a liquid stratum to the passage of the current. 
The catalogue which is given in the essay of conductors of the first class, 
according to the decreasing order of t\\6\r relative electro-motive power, 
is established with much exactness, and may even now be said closely 
to approximate the truth. 

In speaking of the conductibility of liquids, a subject in regard to 
which the physicists of our own day well know the difticulty of arriving 
at exact measurements, Marianini proves for the first time, what has 
never since been contradicted, that the conductibility of liquids increases 
with the temperature ; that this augmentation is less in liquids endowed 
with a great conductibility, and that a heated liquid preserves for a certain 
time in growing cold a greater conductibility than it first had at a given 
temperature. Here be finds by experiment that the resistance of a 
liquid stratum increases w^ith the thickness of the stratum, and shows 
by many researches the augmentation of the effects of a battery by 
increasing the size of the plate of copper which incloses the zinc. There 
are also contained in the chapter on the conductibility of liquids some 
experiments, among which I will cite, as worthy of being varied and 
extended, that of the conductibility communicated by certain salts and 
organic compounds to a liquid such as alcohol, which is itself scarcely 
a conductor. 

In 182(5 Marianini read before the Atheneum of Venice a memoir on 
Hitter's battery, and on secondary polarity, in which by many well- 
devised experiments he more conclusively ]>roved, what had been as- 
serted by Volta, that the polarities of secondary batteries depended on 
the alterations which the current of the pile produces in the surface of 
the metallic disks of Ritter's column. In fact, after these disks have 
been washed and wiped dry. the column remains as active as before. 

More recently ]\Iarianini undertook the study of electro-physiological 
phenomena, and in the memoir presented to the Academy of Eoveredf 
in 1827, and which was translated in the Annales dc physique ct de 
chimie, t. XL, p. 225, the experiments are described on which is founded 
the law, still known in Germany as the law of Marianini, that the elec- 
tric current in traversing the nerves in the direction of their ramifica- 
tion, or the direct current, as Isobili called it, excites a contraction when 
it enters and a sensation when it ceases to pass; and that, on the con- 
trary, when the current is inverse or traverses the nerves in the direction 
contrary to their ramification, a contraction is produced at the instant 
at which it ceases to pass, and a sensation at that when it begins to 
traverse the nerves. In tliis memoir, Marianini distinguishes the con- 
tractions produced by electricity into idiopathic contractions, which are 
excited whatever be the direction in which the current traverses the 
muscles, and sympathetic contractions depending on the direction in 
which the current traverses the motor nerves. In a second memoir, in 
which he treats specially of the voltaic alternations, he shows that these 
depend on the diminution of excitability of the nerves, produced by tha 
l^assage of the current in a certain direction. Among these experiments, 



LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF STEFAXO MAEIANINL 181 

we must not fail to recall that by wliicli Mariauiiii obtains the sLock at 
the opening of the circuit, although in the act of closing the circuit by 
means of the finger or other unmoistened body, this shock be not ob- 
tained. He subsequently occupied himself with the application of his 
studies on electro-physiology to the cure of certain cases of paralysis, 
and is, perhaps, the only physicist who has studied this subject with 
suitable attention, and obtained by electricity the restoration in some 
cases of those afflicted with this disorder. 

Among the numerous memoirs of Marianini, we must also cite as 
worthy of remembrance and full of ingenious experiments, those with 
which he sought to sustain the theory of the electro-motive force of 
Yolta and to combat the chemical theory of the pile. Although it be 
scarcely necessary to say that at present the latter theory is with reason 
generally embraced, there are, nevertheless, some experiments of Maria- 
nini which show that there are certain cases in which distinct signs 
liresent themselves of the electro motive force as understood by Volta, 
without the appearance of any phenomena of chemical action to which 
those signs might be attributed. 

It remains, finally, to cite a long series of memoirs in which our col- 
league studied the magnetizing force of the electric discharge of the 
Leyden jar, as well as the inductive discharges. For the prosecution 
of these exi)eriments, Marianini commenced by inventing a re-electro- 
mcter, as he called it, which even now might be of service in many 
researches, and which consists of an iron wire surrounded by one of 
copper winding spirally about it, and placed above a compass in a direc- 
tion perpendicular to the magnetized needle. A discharge from the jar, 
however weak, now passes by the spiral and magnetizes the iron wire, 
and the needle of the compass is deflected ; the direction of the deviation 
indicating th€\ direction of the discharge. In this memoir a great number 
of experiments' are described, by which it is proved that, after the mag- 
netization generated by an instantaneous discharge, if the magnetization 
be annulled either by mechanical means or by contrary discharges, the 
iron acquires a susceptibility of being magnetized in the first direction, 
and loses the susceptibility of being magnetized in the opposite direc- 
tion. The author has studied with much sagacity all the other condi- 
tions of this phenomenon, namely, the thickness of the iron wires, 
the capacity of the Leyden jar from which the discharge is obtained, 
and com])ares the eifects of a bundle of fine iron wires Avith those of a 
large and full cylindrical wire. 

In continuation of these studies, Marianini proceeded to experiment 
on the eft'ects produced by metallic envelopes in diminishing the mag- 
netizing action of electric currents on the iron placed in the interior of 
those envelopes, and demonstrated that the effects depend on the action 
of the inductive discharge developed in the envelopes. He proceeded 
afterwards to the study of inductive discharges ; discovered the induc- 
tions of the second and third order, which had been found at the same 
time by Henry, in America, and saw that the Leydeu-electric induction 
was exerted also between liquid conductors. 

These notices, by which we have certainl3' had no thought of render- 
ing justice to the various labors of Marianini, will serve at least to show 
how assiduous and productive was the scientific life of our lamented 
colleague, and how admirable an example that life, prolonged as it for- 
tunately was, offers, in its unobtrusive and tranquil course, to the youth 
^f Italy — how imperishable an honor it will always reflect upon our 
country. 

Floke>'CE, April 1, 18G7. 



ON THE CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 



By T, Sterry Hunt, LL. D., F. E. S. 



In the following pages 1 have endeavored, at the request of Professor 
Henry, to give a brief summary of certain views in chemical geology 
wbich have been put forward by me in various scientific journals dur- 
ing the past twelve years, the germ of them having appeared in a com- 
munication to the American Journal of Science in January, 1858. In 
addition to the foot-notes, I have appended a list of my principal pub- 
lications on the subject, where those who desire to follow up the various 
questions here suggested will find them treated more at length. The 
last three of these papers are in part reprinted in the present abstract. 
I take this occasion to say that the views here embodied will be devel- 
oped in a work on the chemistry of the globe, the i)reparation of which 
is now well advanced. 

T. STEREY HUNT. 

Montreal, January 6, 1870. 



List of the principal papers, hy Mr. T. Sterrij Hunt, relating to Chemical Geology. 

On tho Chemistry of the Primeval Earth. American Journal of Science, January, 
1858. ,., 

On the part which the Silicates of tlie Alkalies may play in the 'Metamorphism of 
Eocks. Proc. Eoyal Society of London, May 7, 1857, and American Journal of Science, 
March, 1858. 

On tho origin of Feldspars, and on some j)oints of Chemical Lithology. American 
Journal of Science, May, 1858. 

On tlie Theory of Igneous Eocks aud Volcanoes. Canadian Journal of Toronto, 
March, 1858. 

On some points in Chemical Geology. Quarterly Journal of th^ Geological Society, 
November, 1859. 

Eeview of tho last-named paper. American Journal of Science, July, 1860. 

On Gypsums and Magnesian Eocks. American Journal of Science, September, No- 
vember, 1859. 

On the History of Lime and Magnesia Salts. American Journal of Science, July, 
1883. 

Contributions to Lithology. American .Journal of Science, March, May, .July, 1884. 

Chemistry of Natural Waters. American Journal of Science, March, July, Septem- 
ber, 1865. 

Chemistry and Mineralogy of Metamorphio Eocks. Dublin Quarterly Journal, 
July, 1833. 

Origin of some Magnesian and Aluminous Eocks. American Journal of Science, 
September, 1861. 

La Chimie de la Terre. Comptes-Eendus do 1' Academic, June 9, 1862. 

The Earth's Climate in Paleozoic Times. American Journal of Science, 1863. 

On some ])oints in American Geology. American Journal of Science, May, 1831. • 

On the Chemical Geology of Mr. David Forbes. Geological Magazine, Februarv, 
1888. 

On the Chemical Geology of Mr. David Forbes. Chemical News, February, 1838. 

The Chemistry of the Primeval Earth. Lecture before the Eoyal Institution, Alav, 
1887. 

Volcanoes aud Earthquakes. Lecture before tho American Geographical Society. 
April, 1889. 

On the Probable Seat of Volcanic Action. Geological Magazine, June, 1889. 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 183 

CONTENTS OF SECTIONS. 

1-3, classification of the sciences ; 4, objects of cliomical geology; 5, nebular hypo- 
thesis; 6, dissociation ; 7, 8, the sun; 9, the cooling earth; lO-l:^, its solidihcation ; 

14, relations of solution to pressure ; 15, on the earth's crust ; 16, 17, probable composi- 
tion anil relation of earth's crust and atmosphere ; 18, fixation of carbonic acid, its 
efi'ect on climate ; 19, chemical inlhience of vegetation as a reducing agent ; origin of 
carbon and sulphurets ; 20, origin of limestones, dolomites, and gypsums ; 21, silicated 
waters ; 22, relations of potasli and soda ; 23-2G, disintegration of silicated rocks ; 27, 
their division into two groups ; 28, chemically-formed alnminous and nou-aluminons 
silicated rocks ; 29, changes in composition of sediments ; 30, 31, metamorphism of 
rocks ; 32, chemical alteration ; 33, molecular alteration ; 34, porosity of sediments, 
their aondeusation ; 35, ultimate result of chemical metamorphism ; 36, theory of vol- 
canic action ; 37, views of Keferstein and Herschel ; 38, the primitive crust ; 39, internal 
heat ; 40, 41, iuHnence of pressure ; 42, 43, types of igneous rocks ; 44, origin of granites ; 

15, indigenous and exotic rocks ; endogenous rocks or vein-stones ; 46, filling of mineral 
veins ; 47, source of metals, and theory of metalliferous deposits ; 48, earthquakes ; 49, 
volcanoes ; 50, 51, their distribution ; 52, causes of subsidence and accumulation of sedi- 
aients ; theory of mountains ; 53, origin of lavas ; 54, relations of sedimentary deposi- 
tion to volcanic phenomena ; ancient volcanoes ; 55, modern volcanoes. 



§ 1. In approacliing the study of the chemistry of the earth, or what 
may be designated chemical geology, it becomes necessary to define the 
natural objects of that complex study to which is given the general 
name of geology, and also to consider its connection with the various 
sciences. To this end, some notions as to the order and the relation of 
these sciences may not be out of place. Following the classification 
established by Comte, we distinguish between the abstract sciences, which 
deal with laws, and the concrete sciences, which have to do with things. 
In their order the abstract sciences form an ascending series, according 
to the degree of complexity of their phenomena, " so that each science 
depends on the truths of all those which precede it, with the addition of 
peculiar truths of its own." — (J. S. Mill.) At the base of this series are 
thus placed — 1st, Mathematics^ with its successive divisions of number, 
geometry and mechanics ; 2d, Abstract Astronomy^ which considers, in 
addition to these, gravitation, taking coguizjince of number, extension, 
equilibrium, and motion ; 3d, Physics, comiirehending the laws of weight, 
cohesion, sound, light, electricity, and magnetism ; ith. Chemistry, which 
treats of the relations to one auother of the different forms of mineral 
matter, and their transformations under the physical agencies of light, 
heat, and electricity ; 5th, Biology, or Physioloyy, to which belongs the 
study of the laws of organized growth and development ; (3th, Psychology, 
which considers the laws of mental i^henomena ; and, 7th, Sociology, or 
the laws of human society, 

§ 2. Parallel with these abstract sciences is a series of concrete or his- 
torical sciences, dealing not with laws and general principles, but with 
objects and facts. Of these concrete sciences the first is Descriptive 
Astronomy, which is the natural history of the planetary and stellar 
worlds, treating of their movements, dimensions, and cosmical relations. 
Coming, in the next place, to the history of our own planet, the study of the 
accidents of its surface and its interior gives rise to Physical Geography 
and to Structural and Dynamical Geognosy ; whila the bodies which it 
presents to us are naturally divided into two great classes, the inorganic 
or mineral kingdom, and the organic, including the vegetable and ani- 
mal kingdom. The study of these two classes gives rise to two great 
branches of natural history. Mineralogy and Organography, the latter 
inchuling Botany and Zoology. The concrete science of mineralogy has 
for its subject the natural history of all the forms of unorganized mat- 



184 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

tor ; that is to say, those substances which are exempt from biological 
laws, but come within the domain of physics and chemistry. Chemical 
change implies disorganization, and all so-called chemical species are 
inorganic, that is to say, unorganized, and belong to the mineral king- 
dom, whose natural history is thus i)hysical and chemical, while that of 
the vegetable and animal kingdoms is biological.* 

§ 3. It might, at first sight, seem foreign to our present subject to 
spealc in this connection of the moral, social, and political history of 
mankind, dependent upon the laws of psychology and sociology. It is, 
however, to be remarli:ed, that while in the abstract order ea(;li science 
is independent of that which follows it in the series, it is far diiferent in 
the concrete sciences. This is seen in the familiar example of the de- 
l)endence upon each other of the animal, vegetable, and mineral king- 
doms, and it is evident that man puts in movement agencies which are 
constantly at work modifying alilce physical geography and the rela- 
tions of the mineral, vegetable, and animal world to such an extent that 
human history must not be disregarded in the study of the lower reigns 
of nature. 

§ 4. From what has gone before it will be evident that under the com- 
mon term of geology are generally confounded two distinct branches of 
study ; the first or abstract division being that of the physical, chemical, 
and biological laws which have presided over the development of the 
globe, and the second or concrete division, the natural history of the 
earth as displayed in its physical structure, stratigraphy, mineralogy, 
l^aleontology. The name of geognosy, employed by some authors, may 
very appropriately be retained for the latter, while that of geology is 
restricted to the former division. It is iiroposed in the following pages 
to consider briefly some of the more important points in the chemical 
history of the globe ; in doing which it will be necessary to notice also 
its astronomical and i^hysical history, and the relations of organic life, in 
so far as they are concerned in the chemical history of the earth in its 
various stages of development. The scheme thus embraced is so great 
that in the limits of the present essay nothing more can be attempted 
than a sketch which shall embrace some of the most striking facts in 
the history of the forming globe considered as a condensing nebulous 
mass, in the chemistry of the air, sea, and earth in past ages, and in the 
relations of the central heat to the superficial portions of the earth, by 
which we shall endeavor to exi^lain certain tacts in dynamical geology, 
such as the great movements of the earth's crust and the phenomena of 
earthquakes and volcanoes. 

.§ 5. The nebular hypothesis, as it is called, which supposes that our 
solar system and all the worlds of space have come from the condensa- 
tion of diftused vapors, has received strong confirmation from the dis- 
coveries made by the spectroscope. We now know that there exist in 
the heavens nebuhe consisting of luminous gas ; that is to say, vaporous 
matter shining by its own light, which we may, with great probability, 
regard as the primal matter out of which, as the elder Herschel sug- 
gested, suns and planets have been formed by a process of condensation. 
By the aid of the telescope and the spectroscope we find in the heavens, 
planets — bodies like our earth, shining only by reflected light; suns, — 
self-luminous, radiating light from solid matter ; and, moreover, true 
nebuhe, or masses of luminous vapor. These three forms represent 
three distinct phases in the condensation of the primeval matter, from 
which our owu and other planetary systems have been formed. 

* T. S. Huut, oil the Objects and Method of Mineralogy. American Journal of SrJ- 
euce, [2,1 xliii; 203. • 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 185 

This nebulous matter is conceived to be so intensely heated as to be in 
the state of true gas or vapor, and, for this reason, feebly luminous 
v\"hen compared with the sun. It ^vould here be out of place to discuss 
the detailed results of spectroscopic investigation, or the beautiful and 
ingenious methods by wliich modern science has shown the existence in 
the sun, and in many other luminous bodies in space, of the same chem- 
ical elements that are met with in our earth. 

§ G. Calculations based on the amount of light and heat radiated from 
the sun show that the temperature which reigns at its surfiice is so great 
that Ave can hardly form an adequate idea of it. Of the chemical rela- 
tions of such intensely heated matter modern chemistry has made known 
to us some curious facts, which help to throw light on the constitution 
and luminosity of the sun. lleat, under ordinary conditions, is favor- 
able to chemical combination, but a higher temperature reverses all 
affinities. Thus, the so-called noble metals, gold, silver, mercury, &c., 
unite with oxygen and other elements ; but these compounds are decom- 
posed by heat, and the pure metals are regenerated. A similar reaction 
was many years since shown by Mr. Grove with regard to water, whose 
elements — oxygen and hydrogen — when mingled and kindled by flamCj 
or by the electric spark, unite to form water, which, however, at a much 
higher temperature, is again resolved into its component gases. Hence, 
if we had these two gases existing in admixture at a very high tempera- 
ture, cold would actually effect their combination precisely- as heat would 
do if the mixed gases were at the ordinary temperature, and literally it 
would be found that " frost performs the effect of fire."' The recent re- 
searches of Henry Sainte-Claire Deville and others go far to show that this 
breaking-up of compounds, or dissociation of elements by intense heat 
is a principle of universal application ; so that we may suppose that all 
the elements which make up the sun or our planet would, when so in- 
tensely heated as to be in .that gaseous condition which all matter is 
capable of assuming, remain uncombined, that is to say, would exist 
together in the condition of Avhat we call chemical elements, whose fur- 
ther dissociation in stellar or nebulous masses may even give us e\i- 
dence of matter still more elemental than that revealed by the experi- 
ments of the laboratory, where we can only conjecture the comiiound 
nature of many of the so-called elementary substances. 

§ 7. The sun, then, is to be conceived of as an immense mass of intensely 
heated gaseous and dissociated matter, so condensed, however, that not- 
withstanding itsexcessive temperature, it has a specific gravity not much 
below that of water ; probably offering a condition analogous to that 
which Cagniard de la Tour observed for volatile bodies when submitted 
to great pressure at temperatures much above their boiling point. The 
radiation of heat going on from the surface of such an intensely heated 
mass of uncombined gases will produce a superficial cooling, which will 
permit the combination of certain elements, and the production of solid 
or liquid particles ; these, suspended in the still dissociated vapors, 
become intensely luminous, and form the solar photosphere. The con- 
densed particles, carried down into the intensely heated mass, again 
meet with a heat of dissociation, so that the process of combination at 
the surface is incessantly renewed, while the heat of the sun may bo 
supposed to be maintained by the slow condensation of its mass ; a dim 
inution by jiufot^ ^^ i^'^ present diameter being sufficient, according to 
Helmholtz, to maintain the x^resent supply of heat for twenty-one thou- 
sand years. 

§ 8. This hypothesis of the nature of the sun and of the luminous 
process going on at its surface is the one lately put forward by Faye, 



186 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

and, altliough it lias met with opposition, appears to be that which ac 
cords best with our present knowledge of the chemical and physical con- 
ditions of matter, such as we must suj^pose it to exist in the condensing 
gaseous mass which, according to the nebular hypothesis, shouhl form 
the center of our sohir system. Taking this, as we have already done, 
for granted, it matters little whether we imagine the different planets 
to ha^^e been successively detached as rings during the rotation of the 
l)rimal mass, as is generally conceived, or whether we admit with Oha- 
cornac a process of aggregation or concretion operating within the 
primal nebular mass, resulting in the production of sun and plan<?ts. 
In either case we come to the conclusion that our earth must at one time 
have been in an intensely heated gaseous condition such as the sun 
now presents, self-luminous, and with a process of condensation going 
on at first at the suriace only, nntil by cooling it must have reached the 
IJoint where the gaseous center was exchanged for one of combined and 
liquefied matter. 

§ 9. nere commences the chemistry of the earth, to the discussion of 
which the foregoing considerations have been only preliminary. So 
long as the gaseous condition of the earth lasted, we may su])pose the 
whole mass to have been homogeneous ; but when the temperature be- 
came so reduced that the existence of chemical compounds at the center 
became possible, those which were most stable at the elevated te^Jipera- 
ture then prevailing, would be first formed. Thus, for example, while 
compounds of oxygen with mercury, or even with hydrogen, could not 
exist, oxides of silicon, aluminium, (jalcium, magnesiuai, and iron might 
be formed and condensed in a liquid form at the center of the globe. 
By i)rogressive cooling, still other elements would be removed from the 
gaseous mass, which would form the atmosphere of the non-gaseous 
nucleus. We ma^' suppose an arrangement of the condensed matters 
at the center according to their respective specific gravities, and thus 
the fact that the density of the earth as a whole is about twice the mean 
density of the matters which form its solid surface may bo explained. 
Metallic or metalloidal compounds of elements, grouped differently from 
any compounds known to us, and far more dense, may exist in the cen- 
ter of the earth. The condensing effect of pressure as we approach the 
center of the globe has, however, been regarded by some as far more 
than sufficient to account for the considerable mean density of the planet, 
and, according to Dr. Young, would be sufficient to reduce a mass of 
granite, transported to the earth's center, to one-eighth of the bulk 
which it occupied at the surface, which would give to the earth a mean 
density equal to twelve or thirteen times that of water. This considera- 
tion has led a recent writer to conclude, with Herbert Spencer, that our 
earth and the other planets may be only shells of varying thickness, 
inclosing a central cavity filled with vaporous matter, by which hypoth- 
esis may be explained their apparently feeble density. It is, however, 
a matter of indifference, so far as our argument is concerned, whether 
the process of condensation commenced around such a central cavity, 
or at the center of the globe itself. 

§ 10. The processes of combination and cooling having gone on until 
those elements which are not volatile in the heat of our ordinary fur- 
naces were condensed into a liquid form, we may here inquire what 
would be the result, upon the mass, of a further reduction of tempera- 
ture. It is generally assumed that in the cooling of a liquid globe of 
mineral matter, congelation would commence at the surface, as in the 
case of water : but water offers an exception to most other liquids, in- 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 187 

asmnch as it is denser ia tlie liquid than in the solid form. HeJice, ice 
floats on water, and freezing water becomes covered with a hiyer of 
ice, which protects the liquid below. Some metals and alloys resemble 
water in this respect. With regard to most other substances, and 
notably the various minerals and earthy compounds like those which 
may be supposed to have made up the mass of the molten globe, the 
case is entirely different. The numerous and detailed experiments of 
Charles Deville, and those of Delesse, besides the earlier ones of Bi- 
schof, unite in showing that the density of fused rocks is much less than 
that of the crystalline products resulting from their slow cooling, these 
being, according to Deville, from one-seventh to one-sixteenth heavier 
than the fused mass, so that if formed at its surface they would, in 
obedience to the laws of gravity, tend to sink as soon as formed. 

§ 11. The stony materials of the earth's crust then, unlike ice and cer- 
tain metals, expand in melting and contract in passing into the solid 
state. The melting of ice is a process of condensation, and hence pres- 
sure favors its liquefaction, causing it to melt at a lower temperature 
than it would otherwise do; but for bodies with which melting is a pro- 
cess of expansion, pressure produces an opposite effect, namely, that of 
augmenting the fusing point. These conclusions of James Thompson 
and William Thompson have been experimentally veritied by Buusen, 
Fairbairn, and Hopkins. It results from this physical law that the 
effect of pressure upon materials like molten rocks would be such that 
solidification at a depth from the surface would take jilace at a temper- 
ature much higher than that required for their solidification at t!ie sur- 
face. Hence, in opposition to the notion of a congealed layer, like a 
sheet of ice, resting upon the surface of a molten globe, Hopkins, and 
with him Scrope, supposes solidification to have commenced at the cen- 
ter of the liquid mass and to have advanced toward the circumference. 
Mr. Hopkins concludes that the i^ressure existing at great depths must 
have induced congelation of the molten mass at temperatures at which, 
under a less pressure, it would have remained liquid. Before the last 
portions became solidified, there was produced, it is conceived by Mr. 
Hopkins, a condition of imperfect liqiddity, preventing tlie sinking of 
the cooled and heavier particles, and giving rise to a superficial crust, 
from which solidification would proceed downward. There would thus 
be inclosed between the inner and outer solid parts, a portion of 
uncongealed matter, which, according to him, may be supposed still 
to retain its liquid condition, and to be the seat of volcanic action, 
whether existing in isolated reservoirs or subterranean lakes, or whether, 
as suggested by Scrope, forming a continuous sheet surrounding the 
solid nucleus. 

§ 12. This view of the constitution of the globe, or one analogous to 
it, has found favor with many theorists. Professor N. S. Shaler, of 
Harvard, who, in a recent essay on the formation of mountain chains, 
in the proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, has 
adopted it, concisely states it as follows : " The earth consists of an 
immense solid nucleus, a hardened outer crust, and an intermediate 
region of comparatively slight depth, in an imperfect state of igneous 
fusion." In this connection it is curious to remark that, as lately pointed 
out by Mr. J. Clifton Ward, Halley was led, from the study of terres- 
trial magnetism, to a similar hypothesis. He supposed the existence of 
two magnetic poles situated in the earth's outer crust, and two others 
in an interior mass, separated from the solid envelope b}" a fluid 
medium, and revolving, by a very small degree, slower than the 



188 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

outer crust.* The same conclusion was subsequently adopted by Han- 
steen. 

§ 1.'). Apart from tliese considerations, however, many of the best 
modern physicists and geologists have found numerous leasons for 
rejecting the popular notion which regards our globe as a liqui<l molten 
mass covered by a layer of twenty or thirty miles of solidified rock. 
The deductions of Hopkins from the phenomena of precession and nuta- 
tion, those of Pratt from the crushing force of iiumeuse mountain masses 
like those of the Himalaya, and those of Sir William Thompson from the 
tides, showing the great rigidity of the earth, all unite to i)rove that 
the earth, if not solid to the center, must have a firm and solid crust 
several hundred miles in thickness. Under these conditions, if there 
still exist a liquid center, it must, so far as superficial phenomena are 
concerned, be as inert as if it were not. We are thus prepared to accept 
the coiK^lusions to which the line of argument in § 11 leads us, and admit 
that our globe solidified from the center. 

§ 14. It is, then, with the superficial portions of the earth, alone, that 
we have to do from the moment of its solidification ; and as in the sub- 
sequent pages of our history air and water must play an important ]>art, 
it becomes necessary, bofore going further, to consicler brietly the nature 
of the process of aqueous solution and its relations to pressure. Solu- 
tion may, for our i^resent purpose, be defined as a chemical union between 
two or more bodies, of which one is liquid, resulting in a liquid product, 
and acconqianied by a change of volume.! In ordinary cases, as in that 
of most bodies dissolving in water, this change is in the direction of con- 
densation, and hence, as might be expected, pressure exerts an inllnence 
similar to that in the liquefaction of certain bodies by fusion, explained 
in §11. Pressure facilitates the liquefaction of ice, which is attended 
by condensation, and acts in like manner in the case of solution, so that 
the solubility of salts in water, as shown by the experiments of Sorby, is 
increased by pressure. We can scarcely doubt that these phenomena 
of fusion and solution come under one general i)hysical law, and that 
for all those bodies which contract in dissolving, (to which there are 
but few exceptions,) their solubility in water must be augmented by 
and in proportion to the pressure. As expressed by Mr. Sorby, mechani- 
cal is thus converted into chemical force. | 

§ 15. Eeverting now to the solidified globe, in whose superficial por- 
tions and in the surrounding gases and vapors were present all the 
chemical elements with which we have to do, it is necessary to consider 
briefly its physical and its chemical condition at this early period. 

The formation of a crust at the surface of the viscid layer which still 
enveloped the solidified mass of the globe, as conceived by Hopkins, 
is readily admissible; but that this process commenced when the remain- 
ing envelope of liquid matfer was yet so deep that the refrigeration up 
to the present time has not been sufficient for its entire solidification 
is not probable. Such a crust on the cooling superficial layer would, 
from the contraction consequent on the further refrigeration of the 
liquid stratum beneath, become more or less depressed, corrugated, and 

* The elevated temperature of the interior of tlie globe would probably otFer no ob- 
stacle to the development of magnetism. In a recent experiment of M. Treve, com- 
mnnicated by M. Faye to the French Academy of Sciences, it was found that molten 
cast iron when poured into a mold, surrounded by a helix which was traversed by an 
electric current, became a strong magnet when liquid at a temperature of 1,300-^ C, 
.and retained its magnetism while cooling. {Comptes-Bencliis de I' Academie des Sciences, 
February, 1869.) 

t T. S. Hunt, Thoughts on Solution, American Journal of Science, [2,] xix, 100. 

t Bakeriau Lectui-e for 1863, L. E. and D, Philosophical Magazine, February, 1884 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 189 

broken up, thus causing the extravasation of the ;vet unsolidified portion, 
which would contribute to the vast amount of mineral matter brou.iiht 
within the chemical influences of the surrounding atmosphere. Further 
contraction from cooling would render this material more or less porous 
and ])ermeable, ])reparing it for that process of combined mechanical 
and chemical disintegration which would result from the action of the 
acid li(piids afterwards to be precipitated from the atmosphere. 

§ 10, We have next to consider the chemical constitution of this irregu- 
lar surfaced and broken-up crust of anhydrous and ]>rimitive igneous 
rock, which is now every where buried beneath the products of its disin- 
tegration. It is evident that, with the exception of those which were 
still in a gaseous form, it must have contained all the elements which 
now make up the known rocks of tbe eartli's cnist. If we conceive these, 
together with the air, the ocean, and its dissolved salts, now to react 
upon each other under tbe influence of an intense heat, it will enable us 
to form some notion of the chemical relations of the elements of the 
globe at the time when they were cooling down from that condition of 
Igneous vapor which we sujjpose to have been that of our planet at an 
early stage in its history. To the chemist it is evident that from such 
a process applied to our globe would result the oxidation of all carbona- 
ceous matter, the conversion of all carbonates, chlorides, and sulphates, 
into silicates, and the se]>aration of the carbon, chlorine and sulphur in 
the form of acid gases, which, with nitrogen, watery vapor, and an excess 
of oxygen, would form an exceedingly dense atmosphere. The resulting 
fused mass would contain all the bases as silicates, and would probably 
nearly resemble in composition certam furnace-slags or basic volcanic 
glasses. Such we may conceive to have been the nature of the primitive 
igneous rock, and such the composition of the primeval atmosphere, which 
must have been one of very great density. Under the jiressure of a high 
barometric column condensation would take place at a temperature 
much above the present boiling jjoiut of water, and the lower levels of 
the half-cooled crust would be drenched with a highly heated solution 
of hydrochloric acid, whose decomposing action would be powerfully 
aided by the temperature. The formation of chlorides of the various 
bases, and the separation of silica, would go on until the af&nities of the 
acid were satisfied, while there would result a sea-water holding in the 
solution, besides the chlorides of sodium, calcium, and magnesium, salts 
of aluminum and other metallic bases. At a later period the gradual 
combination of oxygen with sulphurous acid would eliminate this from 
the atmosphere in the form of sulphuric acid. The atmosphere being thus 
deprived of its volatile compounds of chlorine and sulphur, would ap- 
proach to that of our own time, but difter in its much greater amount 
of carbonic acid. It will be remarked that from the aflinities which 
would come into play in the conditions above supposed, all the elements, 
with the exception of the noble metals, nitrogen, chlorine, the related 
haloids, and the hydrogen combined with these, would be united with 
oxygen. The volatility of gold, silver, and platinum, would keep them 
still in a gaseous condition at temperatures where silicon, and with it 
the baser metals, were precipitated in the form of oxides. 

§ 17. The process just described ceased with the separation from the 
air of the compounds of sulphur and chlorine, and then commenced 
the second stage in the action of the atmosphere on the earth's crust, 
by which, under the influence of carbonic acid and moisture, its com- 
plex aluminous silicates are converted into a hydrated silicate of alum- 
ina or clay ; while the separated lime, magnesia, and alkalies, being 
changed into bicarbonates, are conveyed to the sea in a state of solution. 



190 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

The first effect of these dissolved carbonates would be to precipitate 
the dissolved alumina and the heavy metals, after which came the de- 
composition of the chloride of calcium and the formation of carbonate of 
lime and chloride of sodium. This action of carbonic acid is still going 
on at the earth's surface, slowly breaking down and destroying the 
hardest rocks, and, aided by mechanical processes, transforming them 
into clays ; although the action, from the comparative rarity of carbonic 
acid in the atmosphere, is now less energetic than in earlier times, when 
the abundance of this gas, and a higher temperature, favored the 
chemical decomposition of the rocks. But now, as then, every clod of 
clay formed from the decay of a crystalline rock corresponded to an 
equivalent of carbonic acid abstracted from the atmosphere, and to 
equivalents of carbonate of lime and common salt formed from the 
chloride of calcium of the sea-watei\ 

It is very instructive, in this connection, to compare the composition 
of the waters of the modern ocean with that of the sea in ancient times, 
whose composition we learn from the fossil sea- waters which are still to 
be found in certain regions, imprisoned in the pores of the older stratified 
rocks, and are the source of many of our saline mineral waters*. These 
are vastly richer in salts of lime and magnesia than those of the present 
sea, from which have been separated, by chemical ]>rocesses, all the car- 
bonate of lime of our limestones, with the exception of that derived from 
the sub-aerial decay of calcareous and magnesian silicates belonging to 
the i^rimitive crust. 

§ 18. The gradual removal, in the form of carbonate of lime, of the 
carbonic acid from the primeval atmosphere, has been connected with 
great changes in the organic life of the globe. Tlie air was doubtless 
at first unfit for the respiration of warm-blooded animals, and we find 
the higher forms of life coming gradually into existence as we approach 
the present period of a i)urer air. Calculations based upon the proba- 
ble amount of limestone in the earth's crust, lead us to conclude that 
the amount of carbon thus removed in the form of carbonic acid has 
been so enormous, that we must suppose the earlier forms of air-breath- 
ing animals to have been peculiarly adapted to live in an atmosphere 
which would probably be too impure to sup})ort modern rei)tilian life. 

Growing plants under the stimulus of light possess, as is well 
known, the power to absorb carbonic acid, appropriating the carbon and 
liberating oxygen. The importance of this agencj" in purifying the 
primitive atmosphere was long since pointed out by Brongniart, and 
our great stores of fossil fuel have been derived from the decomposition, 
by the ancient vegetation, of the excess of carbonic acid of the early 
atmosphere, which, through this agency, was exchanged for oxygen gas. 
In this connection the vegetation of former i^eriods presents the curious 
phenomenon of plants allied to those now growing beneath the tropics 
llourishing within the polar circles. Many ingenious hypotheses have 
been proposed to account for the warmer climate of earlier times, but 
are at best unsatisfactory, and it would appear that the true solution 
of the i^roblem may be found in the constitution of the early atmosphere, 
w hen considered in the light of Dr. Tyndal's beautiful researches on 
radiant heat. He has found that the presence of a few hundredths of 
carbonic acid gas in the atmosphere, while offering almost no obstacle 
to the passage of the solar rays, would suffice to prevent almost entirely 
the loss by radiation of obscure heat. 

The aqueous vapor which our atmosphere contains exerts a powerful 

* T. S. Hunt. Contributions to the Chemistry of Natural Waters, Americau Journal 
of Science, [2. J XXXIX, 184. 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 191 

influence of tlie same kind, allowing tlie sun's rays to reach tbe earth, 
but preventing to a great extent the loss by radiation of the heat thus 
comuuinicated. When, however, the supply of heat from the sun is in-* 
terrupted at night, the radiation which goes on into space causes the 
precipitation of a great part of the watery vapor from the air, and the 
earth, being thus deprived of its protecting shield, becomes moie and 
more rapidly cooled. If now we could suppose the atmosphere to be 
mingled with some permanent gas which should possess an absorptive 
power like that of aqueous vapor, this cooling process would be in a 
great measure arrested, and an effect would be produced similar to that 
of a screen of glass, which keeps up the temperature beneath it, both 
directly by preventing the escape of radiant heat, and indirectly by 
hindering the condensation of the aqueous vapor in the air conlined be- 
neatli. Such a gas is carbonic acid, and the large amount of it which 
existed in the atmosphere during former geological periods must have 
aided greatly to maintain the elevated temperatures which then existed 
at tlie earth's surface. Without doubt the greater extent of sea and the 
absence or rarity of high mountains contributed much to the mikl cli- 
mate of former geologic ages; but to these must be added the iulluence 
of the whole of the carbon since condensed in the forms of carbonate of 
lime and coal, which then existed as a transparent and permanent gas 
mingled with the atmosphere surrounding the earth, and protecting it 
like a dome of glass. To this effect of carbonic acid it is possible that 
other gases may have contributed. The ozone which is mingled with 
the oxygen set free from growing plants, and the marsh-gas which is now 
evolved from decomposing vegetation, may, by their absorptive powers, 
which are far greater than that of carbdtiic acid, have contributed 
greatly to maintain a high temperature at the earth's surface in early 
times.* 

§ 11). The part which vegetation has played in the chemical history of the 
globe has not been limited to the purification of the atmosphere. It 
seems to have been the great agent through which solar force has effected 
a partial deoxidation of the thoroughly burned or oxidized materials of 
the primitive world. By means of growing plants- carbonic acid and 
water are reduced, giving rise to the various forms of carbon and to 
hydrocarbonaceous bodies, and these have been the agents by which the 
sulphates of the metals have been deoxidized, and sulphur, native 
metals, and metallic sulphides produced. It is moreover by the reducing 
action of decaying organic matters that the peroxide of iron is partially re- 
duced and removed in a soluble form from sediments, to b6 afterwards 
deposited in the form of iron ore. The evidences of this reducing and 
dissolving action of organic matter are met with not only in the fire- 
clays and iron- stones of the carboniferous system, and among secondary, 
tertiary, and modern deposits, but on a grand scale in the Laurentiau 
system, where great thicknesses of sediments are found almost destitute 
of iron, while beds of iron ore more extensive than at any subsequent 
periods are evidences of the abundance of organic matters at that early 
time. If these are not more frequently preserved in the form of an- 
thracite and graphite, it is because the amount of peroxide of iron dif- 
fused through the sediments of tbe period furnished the oxygen neces- 
sary for the oxidation of the carbon. Inasmuch as the ores of these old 
rocks, in their present forms of hematite and magnetite, are very insolu- 
ble, aud represent so much iron withdrawn from the terrestrial circula- 
tion, it is evident that the proportion of this element, existing in a dif- 

* T. S. Hunt, Ou the Earth's Climate, etc., American Journal of Science, [2,] xxxvi, 396, 
1863. 



192 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

tusecl and oxidized state in recent sediments, must lie less in those of 
more remote times.* 

To tliG chemist the presence of graphite, or of a metallic sulphide in 
a rock, aflbrds clear evidences of the intervention of organic life ; and 
these indirect evidences are met with not only in the oldest known strati- 
fied rocks, those of the Laurentian system, but in the eruptive 
diorites, which rise from beneath them, and are pjritiferous. Theiiresence 
of graphite, native iron, and sulphurets in most aerolites, not to mention 
the hydrocarbonaceous matters which they sometimes contain, tells us 
in unmistakable language that these bodies come from a region where 
vegetal)le life has performed a part not unlike that which still plays on 
our globe, and even lead us to hope for the discovery in them of organic 
forms which may give us some notion of life in other worlds than our 
own. 

§20. Animal life has played in the chemical history of our planet a 
part much less important than vegetation, since it is entirely depend- 
ent for snpport upon the products elaborated for it by plants, and by 
chemical forces. Thus, although many limestones are made up chiefly, 
and even wholly of the calcareoas remains of marine animals, these 
did no more than appropriate from the water the carbonate of lime 
generated by the chemical actions explained in § 17. If the waters of 
the present ocean do not deposit carbonate of lime, it is simply because 
the amount of it now generated by the slow decomposition of the solitl 
rocks is not more than is required for the living organisms which it con- 
tains. Let these become extinct and the supply of carbonate of lime, 
which would still continue, would soon cause deposits of precipitated 
carbonate of lime. Such a condition of things existing in past ages, in 
limited basins, has given rise to sediments of this kind, which constitute 
some of the finest statuary marbles. 

The waters charged with the products of the sub-aerial decay of rocks, 
convey to the sea, as we have seen, bicarbonates of alkalies, lime, and 
magnesia ; but from the reaction of these on the chloride and sulphate of 
calcium in the ocean waters carbonate of lime alone separates, since bi- 
carbonate of magnesia decomposes chloride of calcium with formation 
of magnesian chloride. When, however, in a closed sea-basin all of the 
chloride of calcium is decomposed, the chloride of magnesium is attacked 
by the alkaline carbonates, and the resulting carbonate of magnesia is 
separated, mixed with the carbonate of lime which had accomjianied 
these. 

When into a similar closed basin, or an evaporating salt lake in a dry 
region, holding sulphate of magnesia, there is conveyed a water charged 
with bicarbonate of lime, there results a double decomposition, giving 
rise to sulphate of lime and bicarbonate of magnesia. The latter, being 
the more soluble salt, remains dissolved, while the sulphate of lime crys- 
tallizes out in the form of gypsum, but at a later period is deposited as a 
hydrated carbonate of magnesia, generally mixed with carbonate of lime. 
To effect this reaction it is necessary that there should be present such an 
excess of carbonic acid as to keep the magnesia in the condition of bi- 
carbonate until the gypsum has crystallized out, inasmuch as dissolved 
sulphate of lime is readily decomposed by carbonate of magnesia. This 
condition can only be attained by especial precautions in the atmosphere 
of our period ; but by operating in an atmosphere more highly charged 
with carbonic acid, the production of gypsum and magnesian carbonate 
by this reaction is readily effected. We may hence conclude that it 
was the more highly carbonated atmosphere of early iieriods which 

* Geology of Canada, 1863, p. 573. 



I 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 193 

favored the accumulation of the great beds of gypsum and magnesiau 
limestones which generally accompany the salt deposits of past geologi- 
cal periods. The hydrated magnesian carbonate, whether the con- 
comitant of gypsum, as in this case, or of chloride of sodium, as in the 
former reaction, unites chemicallj" with the associated carbonate of lime, 
and gives rise to dolomite or magnesiau limestone.* 

§ 21. The action of carbonated alkaline waters on the salts of the sea 
under ordinary conditions thus gives rise to carbonate of lime, and it is 
oidy ui^der peculiar circumstances that magnesian carbonate is sep- 
arated. The case is, however, changed Avith silicated alkaline waters 
coming from deep seated silicated rocks, which undergo a decomposi- 
tion without the intervention of the atmospheric air, and hold dissolved 
silicates of alkalies and of lime. These reactiDg ou the magnesian salts 
dissolved in sea-water give rise to magnesian silicates, which are very 
insoluble. Hence we frequently find deposits of magnesian silicates 
in sediments, while silicates of lime are comparatively rare. In the 
solubility of bicarbonate of magnesia and the insolubility of the cor- 
responding lime salt, and in the insolubility of magnesian silicate and 
the solubility of silicate of lime, we find a simple explanation of the geo- 
logical relation of calcareous and magnesian silicates and carbonates.f 

§ 22. The relations of the alkalies, potash and soda, require some 
consideration in this connection. The silico-aluminous componiids of 
potash possess a much greater degree of stability than those of soda. 
This is exemplified in the case of rocks which contain, side by side, 
orthoclase and albite, or oligoclase, when it is often found that the soda- 
feldspar has undergone decomposition from a loss of a portion of its 
alkali and partial disintegration, while the orthoclase or potash-feldspar 
remains uuchangcd. It is well known that waters holding large portions 
of potash salts in solution, exchange the potash for soda when filtered 
through a stratum of earth in which the amount of potash is, neverthe- 
less, as great or gTcater than the soda ; and we find that in natural spring- 
waters, which often contain considerable amounts of alkaline carbonates, 
the proportion of potash to the soda is as small as in the ocean. Sur- 
face-waters bearing the unfiltered wash of the land carry considerable 
portions of potash to the sea, but it is constantly removed, partly, at 
least, by the agency of fucoids, which, as Forchammer has shown, like 
land-plants, take up large amounts of potash, and subsequently, by 
their decay in contact with the argillaceous mud, restore the alkali in an 
insoluble form to the earth. The formation of glaucouite, a peculiar 
silicate rich in potash, which has been going on in the bottom of the sea 
from a very early period to the present time, has also been constantly 
withdrawing the potash from the ocean, so that soda is still the predomi- 
nant base in its waters. 

§ 23. The changes of silicated rocks under the influence of water, 
carbonic acid, and the products of decaying organic matter, present 
several points of interest. The chemical decomposition of feldspars con- 
sists in the removal of their protoxide bases, alkalies, and lime, together 
with a portion of silica, leaving as a final result a hydrous silicate of alu- 
mina or clay. This change is favored by mechanical division, and Dau- 
bree has shown that by the prolonged attrition of the particles of granite 
under water, the softer and cleavable feldspar is, in great part, reduced 
to an impalpable powder, while the uncleavable quartz forms rounded 
grains of sand, the water at the same time dissolving from the feldspar a 

* T. S. Huut, Ou the Salts of Lime and Magnesia. American Journal of Science, [2,] 
•slii, 49. 

^ t T. S. Hunt, American Journal of Science, [2,] xl, 49. 
13 s 



194 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

certain portion of alkali and silica. The soda-feldspars, being more easily 
decomposed and disintegrated by atmospheric inflnences, are broken np 
by mechanical agencies more readily than the potash-feldsi>ar. The sa me 
is true of silicates like hornblende and pjToxene, which are less hard than 
the feldspars. From the mechanical and chemical disintegration of 
ordinary crystalline rocks, which consist chiefly of these various minerals, 
together with quartz, there will result a coarse sandy sediment, in which 
quartz with more or less orthoclase will prevail, while the finer mud 
will contain only the more minutely divided particles of these, together 
with partially decomposed soda-feldspar, clay, and the comminnted 
hornblende and pyroxene. 

§ 24. This process is evidently one which must go on in the wear- 
ing away of rocks by aqueous agency, and explains the fact that while 
qnartz, or an excess of combined silica, is, for the most part, wanting in 
rocks which contain a large portion of alumina, it is generally abundant 
in those rocks in which potash- feldsi^ar predominates. The coarser and 
more silicious sediments are readily permeable to infiltrating waters, 
which gradually remove from them the soda, lime, and magnesia which 
they still contain, and, if organic matters intervene, the oxide of iron, 
leaving at last little more th?in silica, alumina, and potash, the elements 
of granite, trachyte, gneiss, and mica-schist. On the other hand, the finer 
sediments, whose origin, simultaneous with the coarser, we have just 
explained, resisting the penetration of waters, will retain all their soda, 
lime, magnesia, and iron-oxide, and containing an excess of ahunina, 
with a small amount of silica, may, by their metamorphism, give rise to 
basic lime and soda-feldspars, and to pyroxene and hornblende — the 
elements of diorites and dolerites. 

§ 25. The disintegration of alkaliferous rocks, however, frequently 
takes place under such conditions as to be more mechanical than chemi- 
cal, and it may often happen that sediments still retaining a considerable 
amount of combined soda become mingled with carbonates of lime and 
magnesia. The reaction which then goes on between the liberated 
alkaline silicate and these earthy carbonates gradually effects the con- 
version of these into silicates, while the alkali is eliminated in the form 
of soluble carbonate of soda, giving rise to alkaline mineral waters, whicb, 
as I have shown, are abundantly generated in sediments where feldspathic 
matters and earthy carbonates are intermingled. It is only from rocks 
destitute of these carbonates that silicated alkaline waters can issue. 

§ 2G. A decomiiositiou more exclusively chemical is observed particu 
larly among the crystalline schists of tropical and semi-tropical regioiss, 
Avhere a process of disintegration often destroys the cohesion of the 
rocks to a considerable depth. This change, which has been but imper- 
fectly studied, is probably dei)endent in great part on the action of tlie 
soluble products of vegetable decomposition, aided by the elevated tem- 
perature. It, however, requires careful investigation ; and a considera- 
tion of the causes which have induced it, and the extent to which it may 
have in former periods i)revailed on the earth's surface, is of gTeat geolo- 
gical imjiortance, since the immense erosion of which geognosy a£t"ords 
us evidence, and w^hich seems so difficult to explain if we conceive the 
rocks to have been as hard as we now find them in many regions, becomes 
more easily intelligible if we suppose the cohesion of the crystalline rocks 
to have been previously much weakened by decay. 

§ 27. The oi)eration of the mechanical and chemical agencies which ]>re- 
side over the disintegration of x)re-existing rocks naturally divides the 
insoluble products into two types, approaching in chemical composition, 
as we have shown, to granites, gneiss, and mica-schist, on the one hautl^ 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 



195 



and to diorites aud dolerites on the other. These correspoud to the two 
chesses of igneous rocks designated by Bunsen as the trachytic and 
pyroxenic types. 

§ 28. There is, however, a third source of silicated rocks, to wliich 
some alkision has ah*eady been made in speaking of the production of 
magnesian silicates by direct precipitation, as the result of chemical 
changes in solutions. In this way have been formed, besides these and 
rehited protoxide silicates, other silicates, including alumina. This base 
in certain conditions as yet but imperfectly understood, passes into 
solution in water, and has given rise to complex silicates, including pro- 
toxide bases. As I have elsewhere exjiressed it, not only steatite, pyrox- 
ene, hornblende, and serpentine, but chlorite and, in many cases, garnet 
and epidote, have had their origin in the crystallization and molecular 
re-arrangement of natural silicates, generated by chemical processes in 
aqueous solutions at the earth's surface. To these must be added other 
silicates, containing alkalies, chiefly potash, such as glanconite, and a 
hydrous silicate of alumina and potash which has the composition of 
pinite or agalmatolite aud forms beds in the sedimentary rocks of dif- 
ferent geological periods. Evidences abonud of the solution of alumina, 
and of the generation, as chemical precipitates, of various aluminiferous 
silicates. These, like the similarly-formed protoxide silicates, are in 
most, if not all cases, highly basic, and moreover, from the mechanical 
conditions of their production and deposition, are found associated and 
even intermingled with the finely-divided basic sediments of mechanical 
origm. The aluminous silicates thus formed, though mineralogically 
important, are probabh' small in amount when comj)ared with the great 
mass of argillaceons sediments. 

§ 29. The chemical changes which are wrought in the silicated ro(;ks 
diuing their mechanical disintegration are, as we have seen, chiefly the 
elimination of the alkalies, especially the soda, in a soluble form from 
its ahiminons componnds, and the separation and accnmnlation of the 
oxide of iron. The decomposition of the silicates of lime and magnesia 
which takes place is, to a great extent, compensated for by the regene- 
ration of similar compounds by the reaction already explained, but the 
mean composition of the argillaceous sediments of any geological epoch 
will depend not only ui)ou the age of a formation, but upon the number 
of times which its materials have been broken up, and the length of the 
periods during which they have been exposed, in an unmetamorphosed 
condition, to the action of water, carbonic acid, and vegetation, If, how- 
ever, we may assume that this action, other things being equal, has on 
the whole been most comj^lete in the newest formations, it is evident 
that the chemical and mineralogical composition of different systems of 
rocks must vary with their antiquity, so that we may find in their com- 
parative stud}' a guide to their respective ages. Silicious deposits, and 
chemical precipitates, like the carbonates and silicates of lime and mag 
nesia, may exist, with similar characters, in the geological formations of 
any age,* not only forming beds apart, but mingled with the less perme 
able silico-aluminous sediments of mechanical origin. Inasmuch as the 
<'hemical agencies giving rise to these compounds were then most active, 
they may be exiiected in greatest abundance in the rocks of the earlier 
periods. In the case of the more permeable and more highly silicious 
sediments already noticed, (§ 21,) whose principal elements are silica, 
alumina, and alkalies, the deposits of different ages will be marked 
(•hiefly by a progressive diminution in the amount of potash aud in the 
disappearance of the soda which they contain. In the oldest or least 

* Geology of Canada, Report, 1666, page *230. 



IDG CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

lixiviated rocks tbe proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient 
to form ortlioclase or albite with the whole of the alumina present, bat 
as the alkali diminishes, a portion of the alumina will crystallize, upon 
the metamorphism of the sediments, in the form of a potash-mica, such as 
muscovite or margarodite. While the oxygen-ratio between the alum- 
ina and the alkaliin the feldspars just named is 3 : 1, it becomes C : 1 in 
margarodite and 12 : 1 in muscovite. The appearance of these micas in an 
aluminous rock denotes, then, a diminution in the amount of alkali, until 
in some strata the feldspar almost entirely disappears, and the rock be- 
comes a quartzose mica-schist. In sediments still further deprived of 
alkali, metamorphism gives rise to schists tilled with crystals of kyanite or 
of andalusite, simple silicates of alumina, into which alkalies do not en- 
ter, at least in noticeable quantities; but, in case the sediment still retains 
oxide of iron, staurolite and iron-garnet take their place. The matrix 
of all these minerals is generally a micaceous schist. The last term in 
this exhaustive process appears to be represented by the disthene and 
pj^'ophyllite rocks which occur in some regions of crystalline schists. 
In conformity with what has just been pointed out, it will be seen that 
these aluminous silicates destitute of alkalies do not occur in the oldest 
known sediments; in those of the Laurentian system, in which also mica 
is found in comparatively small quantities, nearly all the alumina present 
being in the form of ortlioclase or albite.* 

§ 30. By metamoridiism in geology is understood the change of chem- 
ical and mechanical sedimentary deposits into crystalline stratified 
rocks. The conversion of these sediments into definite mineral species 
has been effected in two ways: First, by molecular changes — that is to 
say, by a crystalline arrangement of particles of definite compounds 
previously formed ; and, secondly, by chemical reactions between the ele- 
ments in heterogeneous sediments, giving rise to new compounds, which 
become crystalline in their turn. Pseudomorphism, which is the change 
of one mineral species into another hj the introduction or the elimina- 
tion of some element or elements, presupposes metamorphism, since only 
definite mineral species can be the subjects of this process. To confound 
metamorphism with pseudomorphism, as Bischof and others after him 
have done, is therefore an error. It may be further remarked that 
although certain pseudomorphic changes may take place in some min- 
eral species existing in veins and near to exposed surfaces, the alteration 
of great masses of silicatcd rocks by such a process is as yet an un])roved 
hypothesis. 

§ 31. The cases of local metamorphism in proximity to intrusive rocks 
go far to show, in opposition to the views of certain geologists, that 
heat has been one of the necessary conditions of the chemical change. 
The source of this heat is generally admitted to be from below, but to 
the hypothesis of alteration by ascending heat Naumann has objected 
that the inferior strata in some cases escape change, and that, in descend- 
ing, a certain plane limits the metamorphism, separating the altered 
strata above from the unaltered strata beneath, there being no apparent 
transition between the two. Tliis, taken in connection with the well- 
known fact that in many cases the intrusion of igneous rocks causes no 
apparent change in the adjacent unaltered sediments, shows that heat 
and moisture are not the only conditions of metamorphism. I showed, 
by experiments in 1857, that, in addition to these conditions, certain 

* For a discnssion of tills subject seo my paper on The Chemical and Miucralogical 
Relations of Metamorphic Roclcs, Dublin Quarterly Journal of Science, July, ISiJo; also 
Geology of Canada, 1863, page 561, and chap. XIX, of the same work. 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 1\)1 

chemical reagents might be necessary, and that water impregnated with 
alkaline carbonates and silicates would, at a temperature not above 100° 
centigrade, produce clieiuical reactions among the elements of many 
sedimentary rocks, dissolving silica and generating various insoluble 
silicates.* Subsequent experiments by Daubree contirmed these results 
of mine, and both together showed the agency of heated alkaline waters 
to be sufticient to effect the metamorphism of sediments by thi^ two 
modes already mentioned, namely, by molecnlar changes and by chem- 
ical reactions. 

§ 3l>. Daubree further showed, by his observations on the thermal 
alkaline spring at Plombieres, that its waters, at a temperature of 70° 
centigrade, had in the course of centuries given rise to the formation of 
zeolites and other crystalline silicated minerals among the bricks and 
mortar of the old Roman baths. The influence of similar waters may 
account for many cases of local metamorphism, but is utterly inadequate 
to explain the complete and universal alteration of great areas of sedi- 
mentary rocks, embra(;ing many hundreds or thousands of square miles. 
On the other hand, the study of the origin and distribution of mineral 
springs shows that alkaline waters, whose action in metamorphism I 
tirst pointed out, and whose efficient agency Daubree has since so well 
shown, are confined to certain sedimentary deposits and to definite 
stratigraphical horizons, above and below which saline waters wholly 
different in character are found imi)regnating the strata. This fact 
offers a simple solution of the difficulty advanced by N aumann, and a 
complete exi)lanation of the theory of metamorphism of deeplj -buried 
vStrata by the agency of ascending heat, which is operative in producing 
chemical changes only in those strata in which soluble alkaline salts are 
present. 

§33. ^Yehave said that the metamorphism of sediments includes both 
hemical and crystallogenic changes. The gradual transformation of 
amorphous precipitates under water into crystalline aggregates, so often 
observed in the laboratory, appears to depend upon partial solution and 
re-deposition of the material, which must not be entirely insoluble in the 
surrounding liquid. If the solvent power of this be reduced, the dis- 
solved iiortions are deposited on certain particles rather than others. 
By a subsequent exaltation of the solvent ])ower of the liquid, solution 
of a further portion takes place, and this, in its turn, is deposited 
around the nuclei already formed, which are thus augmented at the 
expense of the smaller particles, until these at length disappear, being 
gathered to the crystalline centers. Such a process, which has been 
studied by H. Deville, suffices, under the influence of the changing tem- 
perature of the seasons, to convert many fine precipitates into crystal- 
line aggregates, by the aid of liquids of slight solvent powers. A simi- 
lar agency may be supposed to have effected the crystallization of buried 
sediments, and changes in the solvent power of the permeating water 
might be due either to variations of temperature or of pressure. Simul- 
taneously with this process one of chemical union of heterogeneous 
elements may go on, and in this way, for example, we may suppose the 
carbonates of lime and magnesia become united to form dolomite or 
maguesian limestone. (§ 20.) 

§ 34. When the sedimentary^ strata have thus been rendered crystal- 
line by metamorphism, their permeability to w^ater and their alterability 
thereby become greatly diminished ; and it is only when again broken 
down by mechanical agencies to the condition of soils and sediments 
that they once more become subject to the chemical changes which have 



T. S. Hiiut, Americau Jonruul of Scicuce, [2,] xxiii, 407 ; xsv, '287-437. 



198 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

been described in §23. While the crystalline stratified rocks are but 
slightly porous the unaltered strata hold large quantities of water in their 
pores. The mean of thirty-six determinations npon sandstones, shales, 
limestones, and dolomites from twenty-five different localities among 
the nnaltered paleozoic sediments of Canada shovred that 7.75 volumes 
of water were held in 100 volumes of the thoroughly-moistened rock. 
The proportion varied from less than 1.0 per cent, iu the more com])act 
limestones, to 10.0 and even 21.0 per cent, in the sandstones, an amount 
which is greatly exceeded in some more recent limestones.* A large 
proportion of the ocean's waters is thus imprisoned in the vast volume 
of unaltered sediments, and set free when these become metamor])hosed, 
a process which is attended with a corresponding reduction of volume. 
In addition to this, moreover, the clays and other hydrated silicates lose 
a large part of their chemically-combined water during metamorphism, 
and become changed into crystalline compounds of increased density. 
This becomes obvious when Ve compare the specific gravity of such 
species as garnet, epidote, chloritoid, staurolite, andalusite and kyanite 
with that of the unaltered sediments in the midst of which they are gen- 
erated. From this condensation, then, as well as from the mechanical 
contraction consequent upon the expulsion of water, the metamorphism 
of sediments is attended with a very considerable diminution of bulk, 
which is not without geological significance. It results from the exper- 
iments of Sorby (§ llfthat such chemical changes as are accompanied by 
condensation or diminution of volume are favored and accelerated by 
pressure, which may thus become a direct agent in promoting meta- 
morphism as well as solution. 

§ 35. The crystallization which takes place in sedimentary rocks not 
uufrequently effaces more or less completely the traces of their stratified 
and sedimentary origin, as is seen, for example, in many gneisses, which 
are scarcely distinguishable from granite. The study of such rocks, 
moreover, affords abundant proof that tliis alteration has been attended 
with such a softening that the material has been molded by pressure, 
forced into fissures or openings in less fusible or less heated strata, and 
thus taken the form of what is designated as eruptive rocks. The action 
of heat upon sedimentary rocks is not, however, confined to condensa- 
tion, crystallization, and softening; strata in which carbonates, sulphates, 
chlorides, and carbonaceous substances are mingled with sdicious and 
argillaceous matters, will, at a sufficiently-elevated temperature, in the 
presence of water, undergo such changes as must liberate carbonic acid, 
hydrochloric acid, and sulphuretted hydrogen, which are the common 
gaseous accompaniments of volcanic action. From these considerations 
we are led to a rational theory of volcanic and eruptive rocks, which we 
conceive to have their seat, not in an uncongealed portion of the once 
liquid globe, but in the more deeply-buried portions of that disinte- 
grated crust whose origin has been explained in § 14. 

§ 36. The history of this theory forms an interesting chapter in 
geology. As remarked by Humboldt, a notion that volcanic phenomena 
have their seat in the sedimentary formations, and are dependent on the 
combustion of organic substances, belongs to the infancy of geology. 
To this period belong the theories of Lemery and Breislak, {Cosmos, v. 
443; Otte's translation.) Keferstein, in his NaturgescMclite des ErdVOr- 
lyers, published in 1834, maintained that all crystalline non-stratified 
rocks, from granite to lava, are products of the transformation of sedi- 
mentary strata, iu part very recent, and that there is no well-defined 

* Geologica 1 Report of Canada, 1866, p. 283.— American Journal of Science, [2,] 
xxxix, 183. 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 199 

line to be drawn between neptunian and volcanic rocks, since they pass 
into each other. Volcanic phenomena, according to him, have their 
origin, not in an igneous fluid center, nor in. an oxidizing metallic 
nucleus, (Davy, Daubeny,) but in known sedimentary formations, where 
they are the result of a peculiar kind of fermentation, Avhich crystallizes 
and arranges in new forms the elements of the sedimentary strata, with 
an evolution of heat as a result of the chemical process, [Xaiurgeschichte, 
vol. i, 1). 109 ; also Bulletin de la 8ocict6 Geoloyique cle France, [1], vol. 
vii, p. 107.) In commenting upon these views, {Ameyican Journal of 
Science, July, 1800,) I have remarked that, by ignoring the incandescent 
nucleus as a source of heat, Keferstein has excluded the true exciting- 
cause of the chemical changes which take place in the buried sediments. 
The notion of a subterranean combustion or fermentation, as a source of 
heat, is to be rejected as irrational. 

§ 37. A view identical with that of Keferstein, as to the seat of vol- 
canic phenomena, was soon after put forth by Sir John Herschel, in a 
letter to Sir Charles Lyell, in 183G, {Proceedings of the Geological Society 
of London, ii, 518.) Starting from the suggestion of Serope and Babbage, 
that the isothermal horizons in the earth's crust must rise as a conse- 
quence of the accumulation of sediments, he insisted that deeply-buried 
strata will thus become crystallized by heat, and may eventually, with 
their included water, be raised to the melting point, by which process 
gases would be generated, and earthquakes and volcanic eruptions follow. 
At the same time the mechanical disturbance of the equilibrium of pres- 
sure, consequent upon a transfer of sediments, while the yielding surface 
reposes on matters partly liquified, will explain the movements of eleva- 
tion and subsidence of the earth's crust. Herschel was probably ignorant 
of the extent to which his views had been anticipated by Keferstein ; and 
the suggestions of the one and the other seemed to have passed unnoticed 
by geologists until, in March, 1858, I reproduced them in a paper read 
before the Canadian Institute, (Toronto.) being at that time acquainted 
with Herschel's letter, but not having met with the writings of Kefer- 
stein. I there considered the reactions which would take place under 
the influence of a high temperature in sediments permeated with water, 
and containing, besides silicious and aluminous matters, carbonates, sul- 
phates, chlorides, and carbonaceous substances. From these, it was 
shown, might be produced all the gaseous emanations of volcanic dis- 
tricts, while from aqueo-igneous fusion of the various admixtures might 
result the great variety of eruptive rocks. To quote the words of my 
paper just referred to: "We conceive that the earth's solid crust of 
anhydrous and primitive igneous rock is everywhere deeply concealed 
beneath its own ruins, which form a great mass of sedimentary strata, 
l)ermeated by water. As heat from beneath invades these sediments, it 
produces in them that change which constitutes normal metamorjihism. 
These rocks, at a sufflcient depth, are necessarily in a state of igneo- 
aqueous fusion ; and in the event of fracture in the overlying strata, 
may rise among them, taking the form of eruptive rocks. When the 
nature of the sediments is such as generate great amounts of elastic 
fluids by their fusion, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions may result, 
and these — other things being equal — will be most likely to occur under 
the more recent formations.'' {Canadian Journal, Mav, 1858, vol. iii, p. 
207.) 

§ 38. The same views are insisted ujjon in a i:)ai)er " On some points in 
Chemical Geology." (Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, Lon- 
don, November, 1859, vol. xv, page 591,) and have since been repeatedly 
put forward by me, with further explanations as to what I have designated 



200 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

above, llie ruins of the crust of anhydrous and primitive igneous roclc. This, 
it is conceived, iimst, by contraction iu cooling, have become porous and 
permeable, for a considerabk^ depth, to the waters afterward precipitated 
upon its surface. In this way it was prepared alike for mechanical disin- 
tegration, and for the chemical action of the acids, which, as shown in § 10, 
must have been present in the air and the waters of the time. It is, more- 
over, not imj)rol)able that a yet unsolidified sheet of molten matter may 
then have existed beneath the earth's crust, and may have intervened in 
the volcanic phenomena of that early period, contributing, by its extra- 
vasation, to swell the vast amount of mineral matter then brought within 
aqueous and atmospheric influences. The earth, air, and water thus made 
to react upon each other, constitute the first matter from which, by 
mechanical and chemical transformations, the whole mineral world known 
to us has been produced. 

§ 39. It is the lower portions of this great disintegTated and water-im- 
pregnated mass which form, according to the present hypothesis, the 
semi-liquid layer supposed to intervene between the outer solid crust 
and the inner solid and anhydrous nucleus. In order to obtain a correct 
notion of the condition of this mass, both in earlier and later times, two 
points must be especially considered, the relation of temperature to depth, 
and that of solubility to pressure. It being conceded that the increase 
of temperature in descending iu the earth's crust is due to the transmis- 
sion and escape of heat from the interior, Mr. Hopkins showed mathe- 
matically that there exists a constant proportion between the effect of 
interualheat at the surfjice and the rate at which the temperature in- 
creases in descending. Thus, at the present time, while the mean tem- 
perature at the earth's surface is augmented only about one-twentieth of 
a degree Fahrenheit, by the escape of heat from below, the increase is 
found to be equal to about one degree for each sixty feet in depth. 
If, however, we go back to a period in the history ol our globe when the 
heat passing upwards through its crust was suthcient to raise the super- 
ficial temperature twenty times as much as at present, that is to say, 
one degree of Fahrenheit, the augmentation of heat in descending would 
be twenty times as great as now, or one degree for each three feet in 
depth, {Geological Journal, viii, 59.) The conclusion is inevitable that a 
condition of things must have existed during long periods in the history 
of the cooling globe when the accumulation of comparatively thin layers 
of sediment Avould have been sufiflcient to give rise to all the phenomena 
of metamorphism, vulcanicity, and movements of the crust, whose origin 
Herschel has so well exi)lained. 

§ 40. Coming, in the next place, to consider the influence of pressure 
upon the buried materials derived from the mechanical and chemical dis- 
integration of the primitive crust, we find that by the presence of heated 
water throughout them, they are placed under conditions very unlike 
those of the original cooling mass. While pressure raises the fusing 
point of such bodies as expand in passing into the liquid state, it depresses 
that point for those which, like ice, contract in becoming liquid. The 
same principle extends to that liquefaction which constitutes solution ; 
where, as is with few exceptions the case, the process is attended with 
condensation or diminution of volume, pressure will, as shown by the ex- 
periments of Sorby, augment the solvent power of the liquid. Under the 
influence of the elevated temperature, and the great pressure which pre- 
vail at considerable depths, sediments should, therefore, by the effect of 
the water which they contain, acquire a certain degree of liquidity, ren- 
dering not improbable the suggestion of Scheerer, that the presence of five 
or ten per cent, of water may suffice, at temperatures approaching red- 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 201 

ness, to give to a granitic mass a li(iui(lity partaking at once of tlie charac- 
ter of an igneous aud an aqueous fusion. The studies by Mv. Sorby of 
the cavities in crystals have led him to conclude that the constituents 
of granitic and trachytic rocks have crystallized in the presence of liquid 
water, under great pressure, at temi)eratures not above redness, and con- 
sequently very far below that required for simple igneous fusion. The 
intervention of water in giving liquidity to lavas, has, in fact, long been 
taught by Scrope, and notwithstanding the opposition of plutonists like 
Durocher, Fournet, and Iviviere, is now very geui'rnlly admitted. In 
this connection, the reader is referred to the Geological Slagazine for Feb- 
ruary, 1SG8, page 57, where the history of this question is discussed. 

§ 41. It may here be remarked that if we regard the liquefaction of 
heated rocks under great pressure, and in presence of water, as a ])ro- 
cess of solution rather than of fusion, it would follow that diminution 
of pressure, as supposed by Mr. Scrope, would cause not liquefaction, 
l)ut the reverse. The mechanical pressure of great accumulations of 
sediment is to be regarded as co-operating with heat to augment the 
solvent action of the water, and as being thus one of the efficient causes 
of the liquefaction of deeply-buried sedimentary rocks. 

§ 42. That water intervenes not only in the phenomena of volcanic 
eruptions, but in the crystallization of the minerals of eruptive rocks, 
which have been formed at temperatures far below that of igneous fusion, 
is a fact not easily reconciled with either the first or the second hypoth- 
esis of volcanic action, but is in perfect accordance with the one here 
maintained, which is also strongly supported by the study of the chem- 
ical composition of igneous rocks. These are generally referred to two 
great divisions, corresponding to what have been designated the trachy- 
tic and pyroxenic types, (§ 27,) and to account for their origin, a separa- 
tion of a liquid igneous mass beneath the earth's crust into two layers 
of acid and basic silicates was imagined by Phillips, Durocher, and 
Bunscn. The latter, as is well known, has calculated the normal com- 
position of these supposed trachytic and pyroxenic magmas, and con- 
ceives that from them, either separately or by admixture, the various 
eruptive rocks are derived ; so that the amounts of alumina, lime, mag- 
nesia, and alkalies sustain a constant relation to the silica in the rock. 
If, however, we examine the analyses of the eruptive rocks in Hungary 
and Armenia, made by Streng, and put forward in support of this view, 
there will be found such discrepancies between the actual and the cal- 
culated results as to throw grave doubts on Bunsen's hypothesis. 

§ 43. Two things become apparent from a study of the chemical na- 
ture of erui^tive rocks : first, tliat their composition presents such varia- 
tions as are irreconcilable with the simple origin generally assigned to 
them ; and second, that it is similar to that of sedimentary rocks whose 
history and origin it is, in most cases, not difficult to trace. We have 
already pointed out (§ 27) how the natural operation of mechanical and 
chemical agencies tends to produce among sediments a separation into 
two classes, corresponding to the two great divisions above noticed. 
From the mode of their accumulation, however, great variations must 
exist in the composition of the sediments, corresponding to many of the 
varieties presented by eruptive rocks. The careful study of stratified 
rocks of aqueous origin discloses, in addition to these, the existence oi 
deposits of basic silicates of peculiar types. Some of these are in great 
l)art magnesian ; others consist of compounds like anorthite and labra- 
dorite, highly aluminous basic silicates, into which lime and soda enter, 
to the almost complete exclusion of magnesia and other bases ; while in 
the masses of pinite or agalmatolite rock we have a similar aluminous 



202 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

silicate, iu which liuie and magnesia are wanting, andpotasli is the pre- 
dominant alkali, (§ 28.) In such sediments as these just enumerated 
we find the representatives of eruptive rocks like peridotite, phonolite, 
leucitophyre, and similar rocks, which are so many exceptions in the 
basic group of Bunsen. As, however, they are represented iu the sedi- 
ments of the earth's crust, their appearance as exotic rocks, consequent 
upon a softening and extravasation of the more easy liipiefiable strata 
of deeply buried formations, is readily and simply explained. 

§ 44. In this connection a few words may be said about the popular 
notion wliieh niakes granite the substratum of all stratified formations, 
and even identities it with the supposed primitive crust of the globe. 
That this crust is everywhere concealed beneath its own ruins, and, more- 
over, that its composition must have been very different from granite, 
we have endeavored to explain, (§ 10.) The Laurentian, the oldest known 
system of rocks, includes iu its vast volume great interstratitied masses 
of gneiss, often closely resembling granite, and it is extremelj^ probable 
that these, softened and extravasated, may form the eruptive granites 
which break through more recent systems of strata. These granitic 
gneisses are, however, clearly stratified, and hold, moreover, intercalated 
beds of quartzite and of limestone, often of great volume, and including- 
the remains of an animal organism — the Eozoon Canadense. The pre- 
dominance of feldspar, which gives the granitic character to the alumi- 
nous rocks of early periods, has already been explained in § 29 as result- 
ing from the great abundance of combined alkalies in these ancient 
rocks. Tlie presence of quartz, an essential element alike in gneiss and 
granite, would suffice to show that granite is iu all cases a secondary or 
derived rock, formed under aqueous influences — even had Sorby not 
shown that the minute crystal-cavities in the quartz of granitic rocks 
contain liquid water which must have been introduced at the time ot 
crystallization. Quartz has not only never been met with as a result ot 
igneous fusion, but it is clearly shown by the exi^eriments of Rose that a 
heat even much less than that required for the fusion of quartz destroys 
it, changing it into a new substance, which differs both in chemical and 
physical properties from quartz. AVe have pointed out in § 16 the chemi- 
cal process by which it may be supposed that silica was set free from 
the primitive silicated mass, under conditions which would permit its 
conversion into quartz. 

§45. The rocks mentioned iu preceding sections are, as regards their 
geognostical relations, divided into stratified or indigenous and erupted 
or exotic rocks, the latter being- looked u[)on as the results of the soft- 
ening and displacement of the former. Besides these, it is necessary to 
distinguish a third kind of rock-masses, which, like the latter, occupy 
fissures iu previously-formed rocks, but are unlike them iu origin, and 
have been deposited from aqueous solutions. The most familiar form of 
these is met with iu the vein-stones of quartz, calcite, barytine, and fluor, 
which are often the gaugue of metallic ores. A careful study of the 
various kinds of veins and their relations leads us, however, to admit 
that almost all the mineral species which occur in the j)receding classes 
of rocks may exist in vein-stones, which, from the mode of their produc- 
tion, we have designated endogenous I'ocks. Calcareous veins in the 
Laurentian rocks may contain all the mineral species of indigenous lime- 
stones, and quartzo-feldspathic veins are made up of aggregates which 
are familiarly designated as granites. To these, in fact, belong all those 
so-called granitic veins which are marked by containing fine crystalli- 
zations or rare mineral species. When, as is often the case, these marks 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 203 

r.re Avantinft" it is sometimes difficult to distioguisli in haiul-si)eeimeus 
between iudigenous, exotic, and endogenous granites. 

§4G. The deposition of tbese mineral species from solution has doubt- 
less taken place nnder considerable degrees of heat and pressure, which 
could only exist at great depths in the earth's crust. Waters charged 
with mineral elements by percolation throngh deeply-saated strata rise 
through tissnres in these and deposit along the channels their dissolved 
matters, a process not so much the result of cooling as of that decrease 
of solvent power which must follow the diminution of pressure in accord- 
ance with Sorby's conclusions.* 

§47. As pointed out in §17, the tirst precipitates from the water of the 
primeval sea must have contained oxidized compounds of most of the 
heavy metals. These early deposits, by mechanical division or by solu- 
tion, became subsequently diffused, and entered into the composition of 
later sedimentary strata. Removed from these by watery solution, the 
metallic compounds have been, in different ages, brought to the surface 
to be deposited in some cases as oxides or carbonates, or reduced by the 
action of organic matters to the state of sulphurets or native metals, and 
mingled with the contemporaneous sediments in beds or in disseminated 
grains. During the subsequent alteration of the strata, these metallic 
matters, being taken into solution, have been re-deposited hi lissures in 
the metalliferous strata, forming veins, or, ascending to higher beds, have 
given rise to metal-bearing veins in strata not themselves metalliferous. 
The metals of the sedimentary' rocks are now, however, for the greater 
part, in the form of insoluble sulphurets, so that we have only traces of 
them in a few mineral springs, which serve to give a faint notion of the 
agencies at one time at work in the sediments and waters of the earth's 
crust. Like the iron, (§ 19) these metals have been in great part with- 
drawn from the terrestrial circulation. The frequent occurrence of these 
metals in waters which are alkaline from the presence of carbonate of 
soda, is significant, when taken in connection with the metalliferous 
character of certain dolomites, which probably owe their origin to the 
action of similar alkaline springs upon basins of sea- water, (§-0.) The 
intervention of intense heat and fusion or sublimation to explain the 
origin of metallic ores is uncalled for. The solvent ])owers of water 
and of various saline, alkaline, and sulphuretted solutions at high tem- 
peratures, in connection with the notions above enunciated, will suffice to 
form the basis of a rational theory of metallic deposits.! 

§ 48. The consideration of the nature and origin of endogenous rocks 
has led to a digression to discuss the theory of metalliferous veins, which 
the plan of this essay did not permit us to treat before. We now resume 
the line of inquiry followed from § 30 to § 43, and proceed to consider the 
phenomena of volanoes and earthquakes in accordance with the notions 
already put forward. 

Violent movements of the earth's crust are confined to certain regions 
of the globe, which are at the same time characterized b3' volcanic 

* Of this a remarkable example was afforded in 1SG6 at Goderich, iu Ontario, where, 
at a depth of 1,000 feet, a bed of rock-salt was met, from which for a time a satnrated 
or rather supersaturated brine was obtained. As an evidence of this, I saw a cube of 
pure salt, one-fourth of an incli in diameter, which had formed upon and around a pro- 
jecting point of an iron valve in the pump, above the surface of the ground. The liquid 
beneath a pressure of 1,000 feet of brine, equal to about 1,200 feet of water, or 36 at- 
mospheres, having taken up more salt than it could hold at the ordinary pressure, de- 
posited a portion of it as it reached the surface, and actually obstructed thereby the 
action of the pump. Alter a few months of pumping, however, the well ceased to afford 
a fully saturated brine. 

t American Journal of Science, [2,] xxxi, 405, and xl, 213. 



204 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

activity ; from which it is reasonably inferred that the phenomena of 
earthqnakes and volcanoes have a common origin. The discharge 
through openings in the earth's crust, of ignited stony matter, generally 
in a fused condition, and the disengagement of various gases and vapors, 
accompanied by movements of elevation or subsidence of considerable 
areas of the earth's surface, sometimes rapid and paroxysmal, and at- 
tended with great vibratory movements, are evidences of a yielding crust 
of solid rock resting upon an igneous and fluid mass below. To the 
same conditions are also to be ascribed the slow movements of portions 
of the earth's surface, shown in the rise and fall of continents in regions 
remote from centers of volcanic activity. The unequal tension of the 
yielding crust and the sudden giving way of the overstrained portions 
are probably the immediate cause of earthquake phenomena; the seat 
of these, according to the deductions of Mallet, is to be found at depths 
of from seven to thirty miles from the surface. 

§ 49. Abrief description of the phenomena of volcanoes will here be nec- 
essary. Volcanoes are openings in the earth's crust through which are 
discharged solid, liquid, and gaseous matters, generally in an intensely 
heated condition. Sometimes the ejected material is solid, and consists 
of broken, comminuted rock, or the so-called A'olcanic ashes. Oftener, 
however, it is discharged in a more or less completely fused condition, 
constituting lava, which is sometimes fluid and glassy, but more fre- 
quently pasty and viscid, so that it flows slowly and with difiticulty. 
The ejected materials, whether liquid or solid, build up volcanic cones 
by successive layers — a fact which has been established by modern 
observers in opposition to the notion come down from antiquity, that 
volcanic hills are produced by an uprising or tumefaction of previously 
horizontal layers of rock by the action of a force from beneath. First 
among the gaseous products of volcanoes is watery vapor ; water ap- 
I)ears not only to be involved in all volcanic eruptions, but to be inti- 
mately combined with the lavas, to which, as Scrope has shown, it helps 
to give liquidity. The water at this high temperature is retained in 
combination under great pressure, but as this j^ressure is removed passes 
into the state of vapor, a process which explains the swelling up of lavas 
and their rise in the craters of the volcanoes. Besides watery vapor, 
carbonic and hydrochloric acid gases, and hydrogen, both free and com- 
bined with sulphur and with carbon, are products of volcanoes. The 
combustion of the inflammable gases in contact with air sometimes 
give rise to true burning mountains — a name which does not properly 
belong to such as give out only acid gases, steam, and incandescent 
rocky matters, which are incombustible. 

§ 50. The escape of elastic fluids from lavas gives to them a cellular 
structure, but when slowly cooled under pressure, as seen in the dykes 
traversing the flanks of volcanoes, the stony materials assume a more 
solid and crystalline condition, and resemble the older eruptive rocks 
found in regions not now volcanic. These include granites, trachj-tes, 
dolerites, basalts, &c., and are masses of rock which, though extrava- 
sated after the manner of lavas, became consolidated in the midst of 
surrounding rocks, and consequently under considerable pressure, (§ 37.) 
Their presence marks either the lower portions of volcanoes whose 
cones have been removed by denudation, or outbursts of liquefled rock 
which never reached the surface. The escape of such matters, and the 
formation of volcanic vents, are but accidents in the history of the 
igneous action going on beneath the earth's surface. We shall, there- 
fore, regard the extravasation of igneous matter, whether as lava or 
ashes at the surface, or as plutouic rock in the midst of strata, as, in its 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 205 

wider sense, a inauifestatiou of viilcauicity, aud for the elucidation of our ' 
subject consider both those regions characterized by great outbursts of 
phitonic rock in former geologic periods aud those now the seats of vol- 
canic activity, which, in these cases, can generally be traced back some 
distance into the tertiary epoch. To begin with the latter, the first aud 
most important is the great continental region which may be described 
as including the ^lediterranean and Aralo-Caspian basins, extending- 
from the Iberian Peninsula eastward to the Thian-Chan Mountains of 
Central Asia. In this great belt, extending- over about ninety degrees 
of longitude, are included all the historic volcanoes of the ancient world, 
to which we must add the extinct volcanoes of ]Murcia, Catalonia, Au- 
vergne, the Vivarais, the Eifel, Hungary, &c., some of which have pro- 
bably been active during the human period.* 

Besides the great region just indicated, must be mentioned that of 
our own Pacific slope, from Fuegia to Alaska, from whence, along the 
eastern shore of Asia, a line of volcanic activity extends to the terrible 
burning mountains of the Indian archipelago. Volcanic islands are 
widely scattered over the Pacific basin, and volcanoes burn amid the 
thick-ribbed ice of the Antarctic continent. The Atlantic area is in like 
manner marked by volcanic islands from Jan Mayen and Iceland to the 
Canaries, the Azores, and the Caribbean Islands, and southward to 
Ascension, St. Helena, and Tristan d'Acunha. 

§ 51. The continents, with the exception of the two areas already 
defined, i)resent no evidences of modern volcanic action, and the regions 
of ancient volcanic activity, as shown by the presence of great out- 
bursts of eruptive rocks, are not less limited aud circumscribed. In 
northern Europe the chain of the Urals, an area in central Germany, 
and one in the British Islands are apparent, and in Xorth America 
there appear to have been but two volcanic regions in the paleozoic 
l)eriod — one in the basin of Lake Superior, aud another, which may be 
described as occurring along either side of the Appalachian chain to the 
northeast, including the valleys of the lower St. Lawrence, Lake Cham- 
plain, the Hudson and Connecticut liivers, and extending still further 
southward. The study of the various eruptive rocks of this region 
shows that volcanic activity in difi'crent parts of it was prolonged from 
the beginning of the paleozoic period till after its close. 

§ 52. The theory of Keferstein and Hcrschel, explained in § 37, shows 
in what manner volcanic phenomena may be directly dependent on the 
accumulation of sedimentary strata. It has already been shown that 
both temijerature aud pressure combine to produce in the lower portions 

* It is a most significant fact that this region is nearly co-extensive with that occnpied 
for ages by the great civilizing races of the world. From the plateau of Central Asia, 
throughout their westward migration to the pillars of Hercviles, the Indo-European 
nations were familiar with the volcano and the'earthquake ; and that the Semitic race 
were not strangers to the same iihenomena, the whole i^oetic imagery of the Hebrew 
.Scriptures bears amjde evidence. In the language of their writers, the mountains aro 
molten, they quake and fall down at the presence of the Deity, when the melting tiro 
burueth. The fury of His wrath is poured forth like fire; He toucheth the hills and 
tliey smoke ; while fire and suljihur come down to destroy the doomed cities of the 
])hiin, whose foundation is a molten flood. Not less does the poetry and the mythology 
<if Greece and Rome bear the impress of the nether realm of fire in which the volcano 
and the earthquake have their seat, and their influence is conspicuous throughout the 
imagiuative literature aud the religious sj'stems of the Indo-European nations, whoso 
contact with these terrible manifestations of unseen forces beyond their foresight or 
control could not fail to act strongly on their moral and intellectual development, 
which would have doubtless presented \ery diflereut phases had the early home of 
these races been the Australian or the eastern side of the American continent, Avhero 
volcanoes are unknown aud the earthquake is scarcely felt. (From a lecture before 
the Amer. Geographical Society, April, 1809.) ■ 



206 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 

of tbe scdimentaiy iiiateiial a condition of igneo-aqueons fusion. It 
would be foreign to our ]>lan to discuss in this place the agencies which, 
from early geologic periods, have been effecting the transfer of sedi- 
ments, alternately AA^asting and building-up continents. One, however, 
requires notice in this connection, namely, the contraction of sediments 
consequent upon chemical changes, as already explained in § 34, which 
mast result in subsidence. Such au effect may also result from the ex- 
travasation of great volumes of liquefied rock, and in either case the 
depressed portion of the surface becomes a basin, in which sediments 
may subsequently accumulate, and by their weight upon the yielding 
stratum beneath continue the process of vsubsidence. While the lower and 
more fusible strata becomes softened, the great mass of the more silicious 
rocks, losing their porosity, become cemented into a comparatively rigid 
mass, and finally, as a result of the earth's contraction, or to counter- 
balance the depression of some other region, are uplifted as a hardened 
and corrugateil continental mass, from whose irregular erosion results 
a mountainous region.* 

§ 53. Those strata which, from their composition, yield, under the 
conditions just described, the most liquid products, are, it is conceived, 
the source of all plutonic and volcanic rocks. Accompanied by water, 
and by difficultly coercible gases, they are either forced among the fis- 
sures Avhich form in the overlying strata, or find their way to the sur- 
face. The variations in the composition of lavas and their accomjianying 
gases in different regions, and even from the same vent at different 
times, are strong confirmations of the truth of this view. As explained 
in § 39, the semi-liquid layer of water-impregnated material constitutes 
a plastic bed, upon which the stratified sediments repose. These, by their 
irregular distribution over different portions of the earth, determined, 
after a lapse of time, in the regions of their greatest accumulation, vol- 
canic and plutonic phenomena. It now remains to show the observed 
relation of these phenomena, both in the earlier and later times, to great 
accumulations of sediment. 

§ 54. If we look at the North American continent, we find along its 
northeastern portion evidences of great subsidence and an accumulation 
of not less than 40,000 feet of sediment along the line of the Appalachi- 
ans from the Gulf of St. Lawrence southward, during the paleozoic 
period, and chiefly, it would appear, during its earlier and later portions. 
This region is precisely that characterized by considerable eruptions of 
plutonic rocks during this period, and for some time after its close. To 
the westward of the Apjialachians, the deposits of paleozoic sediments 
were much thinner, and in the Mississippi valley are probably less 
than 4,000 feet in thickness. Conformably with this, there are no traces 
of plutonic or volcanic outbursts from the northeast region just men- 
tioned throughout this vast paleozoic basin, with the exception of the 
region of Lake Supeiior, where we find the early portion of the paleozoic 
age marked by a gieat accumulation of sediments, comparable to that 
occurring at the same time in the region of New England, and followed 
or accompanied by similar plutonic phenomena. Across the ])lains of 
northern Eussia and Scandinavia, as in the Mississippi valley, the 
paleozoic period was represented by not more than 2,000 feet of sedi- 
ments, which still lie undisturbed, while in the British Islands 50,000 
feet of paleozoic strata, contorted and accompanied by igneous rocks, 

* For a discussion of Ibis subject and tbe tbeory of mountains, inchiding tbe views 
of Professor James Hall, see tbe autbor on American Geology, American Journal of 
Science, [2] xxi, 406. 



CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 207 

attest the connection between great accumulation and plutonic phe 
noinena. 

§ 55. Coming uo\y to modern volcanoes, we find them in their greatest 
activity in oceanic regions, where subsidence and accumulation are still 
going on. Of the two continental regions akeady pointed out, that 
along the Mediterranean basin is marked by an accumulation of meso- 
zoic and tertiary sediments, 20,000 feet or more in thickness. It is evi- 
dent that the great mountain zone, which includes the Pyrenees, the 
Alps, the Caucasus and the Himalayah, was, during the later second- 
ary and tertiary periods, a basin in which vast accumulations of sedi- 
ments were taking place, as in the Appalachian belt during the paleozoic 
times. Turning now to the other continental region, the American 
Pacific slope, similar evidences of great accumulations during the same 
periods are found throughout its whole extent, showing that the great 
Pacific mountain belt of iSTorth and South America, with its attendant 
volcanoes, is, in the main, the geological equivalent or counterpart of 
the great east and west belt of the eastern world. 

It is to be remarked that the volcanic vents are seldom immediately 
along the lines of greatest accumulation, but appear around and at cer- 
tain distances therefrom. The question of the duration of volcanic 
activity in a given region is one of great interest, which cannot, for 
want of time, be considered here. It appears probable that the great 
manifestations of volcanic force belong to the period of depression of 
the area of sedimentation, if we may judge from the energy and copi- 
ousness of the eruptions of island volcanoes, although the activity is 
still prolonged after the period of elevation. 

As regards the geological importance of volcanic and earthquake 
phenomena, their significance is but local and accidental. Volcanoes 
and earthquakes are and always have been confined to limited areas of 
the earth's surface, and the products of volcanic action luake up but a 
small portion of the solid crust of the globe. Great mountains and 
mountain chains are not volcanic either in their nature or their origin, 
though sometimes crowned by volcanic cones; nor are earthquakes and 
volcanoes to be looked ui)on as anything more than incidental attend- 
ants upon the great agencies which are slowly but constantly raising 
and depressing continents. 



ON THE ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 



By Carlo Matteucci. 



ITntnslaicd for the Smithsonian Institution, from the ''Memoirs* of the Italian Society of 
Sciences founded hy Anton Mario Lorgna."} 

The object of tliis memoir is to describe a long series of experiments, 
commenced in 1803 and only iuterrapted by brief intervals, on the phe- 
nomena called electric currents of the earth, meaning by those words the 
electric cnrrents which circulate in a mixed circuit formed of a metallic 
line and of a terrestrial stratum, and which do not depend on causes 
known and existing either in the metallic part of the circuit or in its 
extremities communicating w ith the ground. The conclusions arrived 
at in this inquiry do not comprise, to any great extent, an explanation 
of these currents founded on a known i)hysical theory, or the thorough 
knowledge of the laws of the phenomena. We trust, however, that the 
results obtained are of sufficient importance and exactness to recom- 
pense the long and persevering efforts which were necessary to obtain 
them. We hope also to be pardoned by any one who shall undertake 
seriously to study this subject, if we have not carried these researches 
to such a point as might be desired, since it must appear evident from 
the experiments made that the means requisite to extend and complete 
them exceed the resources of a private individual. 

HISTORICAL TART. 

Even from the time when the galvanometer was discovered — that is 
to say, shortly after the celebrated exi^eriments of Oersted and Ampere — 
l)henomena of electrical currents are cited as having been obtained by 
introducing the extremities of the instrument into different points of a 
terrestrial stratum. 

We believe that Fox was the first who observed the deviation of the 
needle of the galvanometer, on inserting the copper i)oints attached to 
the ends of the wire of this instrument in various places of a mineral 
vein of copper. Becquerel, soon after Fox, published a long series of 
experiments on the electric currents, which he obtained by sinking the 
electrodes of the galvanometer in earth taken in different conditions of 
humidity and of composition. 

It is scarcely necessary to say that all these experiments were but 
different cases of the general principle of the galvanic pile ; that is to 
say, of heterogeneity in the metallic laminoe in contact with the ground 
and the liquids with which the ground was imbued at the points in . 
contact with the electrodes. It would be easy, even supposing the em- 
ployment of homogeneous electrodes, by which electric currents are not 
l)roduced through their immersion in water, to exhibit distinct signs of 
electric currents by using liquids of different chemical composition or 
of different temperature in contact with the electrodes. This would be 

* Serie ter:a : Tomo I, Farte I. — Fironze, 1887. 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 209 

a manner of repeating, by using- the earth as an intermediate conductor, 
the experiments tried, especially by Nobili, many years ago, on the 
reciprocal chemical actions of ditferent liquids. The same may be said 
of electric cnrrents obtained with electrodes in which may be formed the 
so-called secondary polarizations. 

These difl'erent modes of obtaining electric currents in a mixed circuit 
have nothing to do with the study in which we are engaged, if not on 
account of the very important and indeed indis]^ensable knowledge of 
the causes of error which are apt to intrude into the experiments by 
which v,-e seek to discover and to study the electric currents of the 
earth, independently of those causes. 

I believe that the first case of electric currents proper of the earth, 
which may be called, as has been done by Airy, spontaneous terrestrial 
electric eurrents — at any rate, if not the first observed, certainly the first 
described and i)ublished — was that which was discovered on the night 
of the 17th of November, 1847, at Pisa, Isy means of the telegraphic 
wires, and which was described in a letter directed to Arago and pub- 
lished in the Comptes-rcndus of the Academy of Sciences of Paris. This 
fact consisted in the existence of an extraordinary electric current which 
circulated with such intensity and constancy as to keep the armatures 
of the electro-magnets of the apparatus in a state of attraction during 
the whole time that a magnificent aurora borealis was apparent in the 
heavens. The same iihenomenon was soon afterwards observed in the 
United States, and since that epoch the observations have been frequent 
of electric currents in the wires of the telegraph associated with the 
appearance of the aurora. When it is considered that we know, on the 
other hand, the constant relation which exists between the aurora 
borealis and the indications shown by the instruments which serve to- 
measure the magnetic force of the earth, it is impossible not to recog- 
nize all the importance of these studies. And in fact, after these 
observations, there was no delay in directing special researches to the 
existence of electric currents of the earth and their laws, independently 
of the apparitions of the aurora borealis. 

We must be content, on the present occasion, with brietl}' referring 
to the researches made previously to our own, and which are due to- 
Baumgarten, Barlow, Lloyd, and Walker, but especially to Lamont, 
who, beyond the rest, has extended iind varied these investigations. 
Whoever has studied the memoirs of these observers with the attention 
due to the importance of the subject, and to the authority of tLieir 
authors, will find it difficult to avoid the conclusion that the uncertain 
results obtained, results so little accordant among themselv(^s, are prin- 
cipally attributable to the method of experimenting and to the (listurbiug 
causes necessarily introduced by that method. The greater part of the 
experiments were executed with telegraphic circuits, and therefore with 
a metallic line established in conjunction with other metallic lines 
worked for the purpose of correspondence, and traversed by the electric 
currents of the offices at the moment of the experiment. We know 
that the wires of telegraphic lines are never so perfectly insulated from 
one another and from the earth that there shall not be signs of the 
current in the lateral wires when the circuit is closed with one of the 
same wires. Moreover, the communications of the metallic lines with 
the earth are now made with a lamina of copper immersed in pits, the 
wires being at one time connected with the iron tubes of pumps, at 
another with iron railways. In the memoirs which we have r^iferred tO' 
there is generally no indication of the mode in which the lines were 
constructed, nor as regards their insulation or their connection with the 
lis 



210 ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 

earth. Nor in most cases are we iuformed whether or not the nniuhers 
reported were obtained by experiments made, as is (piite probal)le, at 
the time when the lines Avere in service for telegraphic coriespondeuce. 

It wonld bo useless, we think, to eidarge critically upon the experi- 
ments to v.inch we allude or the resnlts obtained. To such criticism 
a distinguished Swiss physicist, M. Dufour, of Lausanne, has lately 
devoted himself, and we content ourselves with citing, in his own words, 
the conclusion to which he has arrived: "It is qnite evident that if 
researches are to be undertaken respecting the electric currents of the 
earth, offering any solid guarantee of exactness, it is necessary to employ 
special lines and such as are absolutely independent of the telegraphic 
reticulation." 

Anuing our i)redecessors in these researches, Lamont alone seems to 
have bestowed some previous attention on the method of experimenting 
and on the causes of error incident to the methods followed. Hence 
the eminent astronomer of Monaco confesses that he had not yet found 
in these experiments a iw'int of dcpartiire sufficiently secure^ i\u(\ closes his 
memoir v.ith the admission that what he had publislied up to that time 
ought to he regarded only as a few general and preliminary indications. In 
a word, 1 do not think it an exaggeration to affirm that it would be 
impossible, from all the researches which I have cited, to draw the 
demonshation of the existence of the phenomenon of an electric current 
which circulates in a metallic line extended along the earth, and insu- 
lated from it, having its extremities sunk in the ground, inde|)eudently 
of the heterogeneity of the electrodes and of the various causes of error 
-introduced into those experiments; meaning by that phrase causes 
already known, and which have nothing to do with a proper electric 
stratum of the earth. 

METHOD OF EXPERIMENTING. 

The description of this method should embrace the metallic part of 
ithe mixed circuit, the comuumications between the extremities of the 
metallic line and the ground, and the instruments used to detect land 
measun^ the current. 

Metallic line. — I will state, in the first place, that none of the experi- 
ments described in this memoir have been executed upon a wire per- 
taining to a telegraphic line composed of several other wires. When- 
ever I have used a telegraphic line, it has consisted of a single wire; 
■ and tlie experiments were made eitlier during montlis when the tele- 
. graphic service was not conducted by that wire, or at hours when that 
service was li:nown with certainty to be suspended. Before commencing 
the experiment the line was examined throughout its course, and pro- 
tected by the removal of any possible contact with the boughs of trees 
or the v.'alls of houses, and by the renewal of the solderings of the 
junctions. The line w^as ibrmed of the usual iron wire of telegraphic 
connections, 3 or 4 millimetres (J of an inch) in diiimeter. Its extremi- 
ties were united to the instruments, and the electrodes sunk in the 
ground by means of a piece of copper wire covered with gutta-percha, 
freshly soldered outside of the telegraphic offices, and all communica- 
tion was interrupted between the line and the usual wires entering 
the offices. The insulation of the line was always tested before com- 
mencing the experiment, and was always such as not to impart 
during dry days a sensible deviation to a galvanometer of 2,000 coils. 

In many of the experiments which we shall report, a copi)er wire, 2 
millimetres (^V of an inch) in diameter and covered with gutta-percha, 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 211 

was used ; which wire was in some cases stretched npnii the ground, 
iu others sunk at a slight depth beneath the surface of the earth, 
but oftenest suspended on slender rods of wood, like those employed 
for fii-ld-telegraphs. 

Electrodes. — This is naturally the part of a mixed circuit requiring 
the greatest attention, and I have been able to avoid causes of error in 
this respect from the assurance, which I had obtained in the experi- 
ments of electro-physiology, that electrodes of annilgamated zinc, im- 
mersed iu a saturated and neutral solution of sulphate of zinc, do not 
excite between them an electric current, and do not acquire secondary 
polarities by the passage of a voltaic current. 

The electrodes which I have employed are rectangular j^lates of lami- 
nated zinc, from G to 8 centimetres {2.^ to 3 inches) in width, and from 
12 to IG (5 to G inches) in height, perfectly amalgamated and joined to 
the metallic line by means of a circuit-breaker with two holes, into one 
of which enters the wire and into the other the extremity of a projec- 
tion on the i)late of zinc. This plate is immersed in a saturated snid 
neutral solution of sulphate of zinc, contained iu a iiorcelain cylinder 
like that of Grove's battery. In the selection of these cylinders care 
must be taken to reject those which are so porous as to admit too readily 
of the percolation of the liquid. 

The porcelaLu cylinder thus prepared is immersed in well or spring 
vrater, which should be the same at both extremities. For the reception 
of the water in which the cylinders are simk, I have used different con- 
trivances. Sometimes, after having formed in the ground a sort of ])it, 
varying in depth from a half metre to two metres, I have made in the 
bottom of this pit a cavity, shaped like a capsule, from 10 to lii 
centimetres (4 to 5 inches) Avide, and of such a depth that the por- 
celain cylinder, when introduced, should reach with its rim the level 
of the bottom of the pit. Then, in order that the v\'ater poured into 
this kind of capsule may not be too speedily absorbed by the ground, I 
line the capsule with a stratimi of tempered potter's earth, such as is 
used in earthenware manufactures. At other times 1 have used tlov.er- 
pots, which are sunk iu the ground, the earth being compressed around 
the vessel. In some cases, finally, the porcelain cylinder was inserted 
and lixed in a large piece of cork, so that the cylinder might remain 
floating on the water of a well, but almost entirely immersed therein 5 
the copper wire cov-ered with gutta-percha, which is joined to the plate 
of zinc, is wound aronnd a small cord, by means of which the floating- 
body is made to descend in the well. 

I have made many experiments to assure myself of the homogeneity 
of the electrodes thus prepared. It is very easy to obtain this homo- 
geneity and to preserve it with porous cylinders. We begin by having 
a certain number of such cylinders, quite new, and by filling them to 
the same height with a solution of sulphate of zinc ; we select those 
which do not readily imbibe the liquid or allow it to escape, and im- 
merse simultaneously two of those thus selected, after they have been 
well dried with a clean towel, in a vessel filled with the same Avater. In 
this way, even with a galvanometer of 20,000 coils, we i)romptly find 
the two electrodes perfectly homogeneous. It Imppens, however, n(;t ini- 
frequently, that, if the cylinders are left in the water for some time or 
withdrawn and again immersed, a certain current Avill be observed to arise 
between them. If the cause of the difference which has thus originated be 
attributable to the plates of zinc, which is the rarer case, it is necessary 
to reamalgamate them ; if, on the other hand, the heterogeneity be due to 
the ijorceluin cylinders, we must withdraw these ii'om the 'water, di'y 



212 ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 

tliem repeatedly with a clotb, and renew the water in wliicli they are 
immersed. To procure homoiioiieous vases of terracotta for containing 
the water in whi(;h the porous cylinders are to be immersed is more 
difficult, and in order to succeed we must leave them to imbibe water 
for scA'eral days, and then pro^'e them ; but even then there are scarcely 
to be found, among many, two between which signs of heterogeneity do 
not present themselves. 

In some experiments I have been accustomed to excavate a hole of 
moderate dimensions at tlie two extremities of the circuit, and to fill' 
each hole with tlie same earth, into which the terra-cotta vase was then in- 
troduced. Most frequently I have satisfied myself, before commencing 
the experiment, that there was no current between the electrodes, by 
sinking the two vases in two holes of moderate size made in contiguity 
with one another. I have also, whenever it v/as practicable, reversed 
the position of tlie two earthen vases and noted the difference, if thei-e 
were any, of the deviations obtained in the two cases, in order to dis- 
cover whether the heterogeneity of the vases was noticeable, and to 
what extent in the current detected. 

I have sought finally to ascertain whether, in any case, it would be 
possible to substitute for the electrodes vdiich 1 have descaibed two 
plates of copper sunk in the ground, which v>'ould be much more simple 
and convenient ; and I have found that, whatever might be the state of 
these plates before submitting them to experiment, that is to say before 
using them, either in a different condition of purity or oxidation as they 
most frequently occur, there was always realized, from the first, Vv^ith 
the galvanometer of 2,000 coils, a very strong deviation, of which it was 
impossible to foresee the direction. It constantly occurred, however, that, 
on keeping the circuit closed and leaving the plates of copper buried and 
undisturbed in the earth, this deviation slowlj" diminished, and aftei 
eighteen or twenty hours became comparatively insignificant. At this 
juncture, it was onh^ necessary to stir slightly one of the plates, or to 
press the contiguous earth, or to throw a little Avater on the spot where 
the two plates were sunk, in order to excite a deviation, which would 
afterwards very gradually disappear. It was also found that on with- 
drawing the plates from the ground, when the deviation had ceased, the 
latter reappeared, if the plates were replaced in the earth either at the 
same or at any other point. It is scarcely necessary to say that when 
a current was made to pass, with electrodes of copper, across the mixed 
circuit, the effects of secondary polarity were realized. 

In conclusion : there would be no security in the results if, in these 
experiments on the electric current of the earth, electrodes of copper 
were used without the proper precaution ; but by employing those elec- 
trodes only after they have been left buried for twenty-four hours in the 
earth and with a closed circuit, the proper currents of the earth are ob- 
tained with the same deviation and the same constancy as with elec- 
trodes of zinc, and even with greater intensity; and this probably 
through the greater extension and depth of the electrodes of copper in 
comparison with those of zinc. 

Galvanomete)'. — Unfortunately I have not been able always to use, in 
these protracted experiments, the same galvanometer ; nevertheless, in 
two of the most important series I have constantly used a galvanometer 
of 2,000 coils, with a distinctly astatic system, and which underwent no 
variation in the whole series of experiments. 

When I have wished to ascertain the electric state of the atmo- 
sphere, I have used a thin wooden rod, G or 7 metres, (20 or 23 feet) in 
height. At the upi)er extremity of this rod a porcelain insulator was 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 213 

fixed, wliicli bore a small arm of irou with a dimiuutive pulley. By 
meaus of a silk thread and of the pulley, 1 elevated a copper wire cov 
ered with gutta-percha, which, at the upper extremity, was terminated 
by a large uncovered i)ortiou coiled spirally, into which I introduced a^ 
sort of cornet, formed of divers layers of touch- wood, and kindled it at 
the moment of the experiment. The lower extremity of this copper wire 
was united to the ball of an electroscope attached to a dry galvanic 
pile. 

EXPERDIENTS WITH A MIXED CIRCUIT OF A LENGTH NOT GREATER 
THAN A KIL03IETRE* IN A HORIZONTAL STRATUM. 

Experiments under these conditions have been often tried, by placing 
the electrodes of zinc sometimes in contact ; sometimes at distances 
varying from 10 to 20, 50, and 100 metres. It is, in fact, by these ex- 
periments which I am accustomed to make i>reviously to undertaking 
those with much longer circuits, that I satisfy myself that there is no 
heterogeneity between the electrodes of zinc formed in the manner above 
described. I have been thus enabled many times to ascertain that if 
on such an occasion there was a slight deviation it depended on the 
vases of terra-cotta, and that there was no regularity in the currents 
thus obtained on transporting the vases to ditfei'ent distances within 
the above limits. In fact, the current is sometimes found to increase on 
a Avider separation of the vases than to diminish or even disappear, and 
sometimes to an inverse order on the removal of the vases to still greater 
distances. In these cases I have always succeeded in recognizing' that 
there was a difference in the physical qualities of the ground. Thus a 
current arises if one electrode be placed in a soil charged with loam, 
and the other in an argillaceous soil ; and in operating on the sands 
adjacent to the sea, a current supervenes if the electrodes be stationed 
at different distances from the beach. But the effects of these differ- 
ences of soil are only manifested when in contact with the vases con- 
taining the electrodes. Ilence, if it be found that a current exists be- 
tween two points at a distance of 15 or 20 metres (19 or 60 feet) from 
one another, we may b^ sure of causing it to cease by excavating at 
those points two holes, which need not have a diameter of more than one 
metre, (3 feet,) and filling them with the same earth, into which the 
vases with the electrodes are then to be introduced. It is advisable, 
therefore, to pursue this course Avhen oj^erating with mixed circuits at 
great distances, provided it be not previously ascertained, as I have al- 
ways attempted to do when practicable, that the deviation remains in- 
variable on reversing the position of the electrodes and their vases. In 
order to remove all doubt as to whether the earth in which the electrodes 
were sunk might not influence the results found when the circuits were 
very long, I have been accustomed to make, at each of the extreme sta- 
tions, four or five holes at a distance of 10 or 20 metres (33 or 06 feet) 
one from another, and to proceed forthwith to the i^roof of homogeneity 
bj- changing the position of the vases. 

I pass now to a description of the experiments made on such mixed 
circuits as are much longer than those just described, on circuits, namely, 
having the full length of a kilometre, (3,281 feet.) With a view to ex- 
X^eriments of this kind, I selected a large, horizontal meadow, adjacent 
to the Arno, and forming part of the Cascine of Florence. Tlie earth of 
this meadow, at least to the depth of the 25 or 30 centimetres (10 or 12 
inches) requisite for imbedding the vases of the electrodes, x)ossessed 

* Kilometre = 1093.6389 yards. 



214 ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 

ap]iareiitly the same physical qualities, beiiiof, in fact, an arenaceous 
Ibimatiou, as is commonly the case in the neiglibovhood of rivers. The 
electrodes of zinc were placed successively at the distance of half a metre, 
(20 inches,) then of 11 metres, (30 feet,) then of 148, (328 feet,) then of 750, 
(li,4Gl feet,) then of 1,000, (3,477 feet.) At each of these stations I exca- 
vated four or five holes, in order to vary in every instance the position 
of the electrodes. The experiments were made by suc(;essively advanc- 
ing and then returning' to the same holes ; by stretching tiie skein 
{mctasi'ja) of cop^ier wire covered v/ith gutta-percha, in conjunction with 
its head, (?) to one of the electrodes, and then re(;overing the skein and 
turning back again. The copper wire covered with gutta-percha was at 
one time stretched upon the ground, at another suspended upon poles, 
at another buried in the grass. It is superfluous to ad<l that, in making 
these experiments, all the precautions above described were employed, 
in order to obtain and ])reserve the homogeneity of the electrodes. 

The result obtained from these experiments, many times rei)eated, 
with every precaution to secure exactness, was that i)i a mixed circuity 
formed of a metaJlic line and a stratum of earth, horizontal, or as nearhj 
so as possible, of a length not greater than a Idlomctre, (3,281 feet,) under a 
clear slcy,and tvith the air calm, there is no proper current of the earth dis- 
coverable tvith a galvanometer of 2,000 coils. Yet, in a circuit of this 
leugth, I have noticed, on days of storm and atmosphei'ic disturbance, 
sudden deviations under the action of the electric discharges. 

EXPEEBIENTS WITH A MIXED CIRCUIT, OF THE LENGTH OF SIX KIL- 
OMETRES, IN A STRATUM NEARLY HORIZONTAL. 

With the aid of the corps of engineers, I was enabled to establish on 
the greaG plain of San Maurizio, distant 22 kilometres (loi miles) from 
Turin, a i)lain set apart for military maneuvers, two mixed circuits, 
each of which consisted of a stratum of earth and of a copper wire, 2 
millimetres (jL of an inch) in diameter, and covered with gutta-percha. 
One of these wires was stretched in the direction of the magnetic merid- 
ian, the other in a plane perpendicular to that meridian. Both wires 
had about the same length, namely, 0,400 metres, (4 miles.) The copper 
wire was suspended upon small wooden poles, such as are used in tield 
constructions of telegraphic lines. At the extremities of the two lines 
a hole was excavated, of a rectangular form, with a depth and length 
of 2 metres, (7 feet,) and a width of 1 metre, (3 feet;) in the bottom of 
this hole a cavity, or capsule, such as has been above described, was 
constructed, having a width and depth of 30 centimetres, (1 foot,) and 
lined with clay, so as to allow no filtration of water. The four cavities 
were then filled with the same water, which was that of a copious waste- 
pipe of one of the canals which traverse the plain ; in this water the 
porcelain cylinders, with the electrodes of zinc, were immersed. 

The first experiments were directed to a verification of the equal con- 
ductibility of the two mixed lines. It should be premised that the two 
metallic lines, north-south and east-west, were interrupted about mid- 
way, and entered at that point into a small chamber, where I had sta- 
tioned the galvanometers. In the greater number of the experiments I 
used a galvanometer of 1,500 coils, with an astatic system ; unluckily, 
this instrument sustained some injuries in being transported, when the 
experiments were finished, to Turin, so as to be no longer capable of 
being operated with. 

To measure the conductibility of the two mixed circuits, I caused the 
current of a good Daniell's battery to pass, first in one, and then in the 



ELECTRICAL CUllRENTS OF THE EARTH. 215 

otlier, and determined with a rheostat the conductibility of the two cir- 
cuits. The ditterence between the two was, from the tirst, very small, 
aud it was ouly necessary to excavate by a centimetre, (^„ of an incli.) 
or thereabouts, the two hohis of tlie line which had the greater resist- 
ance, iu order to render both of equal and constant resistance. Proof 
of homogeneity was also made by tilling two large holes, which had 
been excavated in close contiguity, with the same earth procured in 
forming the holes at the extremities of the lines. In the holes thus tilled 
I formed the two capsules already described, and introduced therein the 
usual electroiles; when these were in operation, having been hrst well 
prepared, no current was found on the introduction of the electrodes 
into the holes. 

After these preliminary arrangements I commenced a series of observ- 
ations which were continned about a month, from the 12th of ]\I;irch to 
the 15th of April, 18G4, being the season generally of clear skies and of 
cool and dry air; there were two or three days of a strong easterly wind 
and one of storm with rain. For the spac3 of ten days the observations 
were never interrupted night or day, aiul two soldiers Vv'ho relieved one 
another were stationed as a guard at each hole. Tlie galvanometer used 
was one of 1,500 coils and gave atixed deviation of 00^, with ;i Danielfs 
battery introduced into one of the mixed circuits. 

The following- were the results obtained from the long series of ob- 
servations made in the manner and at the time indicated : 

1. In mixed circuits, formed of a copper wire, aud a stratum of earth 
very nearly horizontal and about kilometres (1 miles) long-, there is 
always an electric current which circulates with intensity and in deter- 
minate directions according to the direction of those circuits in regard 
to the magnetic meridian; this current cannot be absolutely attributed 
to the heterogeneity of the electrodes, or of the terrestrial strata in con- 
tact with those electrodes. 

2. These currents have an intensity which increases in ])ro])ortion to 
the depth at which the electrodes are sunk beneath the surface of the 
earth, from 50 centimetres (20 inches) to 2 metres (7 feet.) This greater 
conductibility possessed by the mixed lines iu proportion to the depth to 
which the electrodes are sunk, explains the variation discovered in the 
iutensityof the electric currents of the earth under these circumstances. 
This result is in conformity with that which is observed after rain, and 
which is due to the greater humidity of the ground in contact vrith the 
electrodes. 

3. When the cavities iu which the electrodes are sunk have a depth 
of 2 metres (7 feet) or more, or when the electrodes are immersed in the 
water of wells, the extension of the lamina} of zinc and the diameter 
of the porous vases have little influence on the intensity of the terres- 
trial currents. 

4. In the circuit extended along the magnetic meridian or south-north, 
the electric current had always a constant direction aud an intensity 
which varied very ieebly vrhile manifesting a certain period. For a 
month, several hundreds of varied observations showed that the terres- 
trial current was always directed in the metallic part of the circuit from 
south to north, and that the needle of the galvanouu'ter never became 
fixed at zero nor in the opposite quadrant, and that its oscillations were 
always small and very slow. 

5. On comparing with one another the slightly unequal deviations ob- 
tained in nine entire days of constant observation, it results that the 
current iu the south-north circuit i)resents in twenty-lour hours two 
viaxlma and two minima of intensity. The two minima occur, one iu 



21(5 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 



the day, and the other in the night, at very nearly the same hours, 
namely from 11 to 1 o'clock. After 1 o'clock at night the current in- 
creases, and from 5 to 7 o'clock in the morning a maximum is noticed ; 
in the day this maximum oscillates between 3 and 7 o'clock in the after- 
noon. The differences between the minimum and maximum of intensity 
are a litte greater than that between 1 and 2. 

C. In the circuit perpendicular to the magnetic meridian the results 
are very difterent and subject to great variations. It frequently occurs 
that the needle is seen to remain at zero, or oscillates to one side or the 
other of that point, moving from 2° to o"^ and even to 1¥^ and 15° on 
the same side. The direction of the current most frequently observed 
in this circuit was from west to east in the metallic part. In general 
the needle is never fixed and sometimes executes very wide and rapid 
oscillations. 

7. It was never noticed that the differences of temperature, which 
fluctuated between zero (32o F.) and + 18° (05° F.) and -f 20° C. (08° F.), 
tlie varying humidity of the air, or even rain, had any influence on the 
direction of the current existing in the circuit extended along the mag- 
netic meridian. 

8. These results were not varied on changing the position of the 
metallic portion of the circuit — that is, on using the metallic line ex- 
tended on the ground or suspended on poles. 

EXPERniENTS ON MIXED CIRCUITS OF A LENGTH VARYING FROM 
200 METRES TO MANY KILOMETRES, THE ELECTRODES BEING SUNK 
IN THE GROUND AT A GREATER OR LESS DIFFERENCE OF ELEVA- 
TION. 

The first experiments of this kind were made on the hill of the Villa 
della Begina, near Turin. The mixed circuit established there v^as 
composed of an iron wire insulated in the usual manner, and about GOO 
metres (1,909 feet) long in a straight line, with a direction intermediate 
between S. E. and N. W. : the two extremities of this wire were united 
to the usual electrodes of zinc sunk in the ground at a difference of 
level of 150 metres (492 feet.) In these experiments also the pits in 
which the electrodes were sunk had been tilled with the same earth, 
and the capsules or cavities already described were then formed and 
lined with claj'. In some of the experiments, the porcelain cylinders 
and the zinc electrodes were suspended in the water of two wells in the 
manner before stated. 

The experiments have been continued month after month, at different 
seasons of the year, and not rarely the neetUe of the galvanometer has 
been observed for entire days at very short intervals of time. I have 
constantly found in the circuit in question an ascending curreni in the metal- 
lic line, of an intensity v/hich in clear and calm days was constant or 
manifested very inconsiderable oscillations. 

The x>osition of the electrodes was frequently changed, by placing 
lowermost that which was highest, and vice-versa, yet the current 
never varied in direction, and very slightly in intensity. For a certain 
time the galvanometer used in these experiments was that of 1,500 coils, 
which had served me on the plains of !San Maurizio, in the experiments 
with the circuits of G kilometres, (1 miles,) and the intensity of the current 
was always found to be much greater than that realized in the circuit 
of G kilometres. The ascending hill-current was, with this galvanome- 
ter from 20° to 25°, while that realized in the circuit of G kilometres, and 
where consequently the resistance was much greater, never exceeded 
from 5 to G degrees in the line of the magnetic meridian. The intensity 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 



21' 



of the as(^eiuling- current was not altered by the substitution of the 
copper wire covered with gutta-percha for the insulated iron wire, nor 
were any differences noticed when the wire was extended on the ground 
covered with grass or with snow. 

I have seen the intensity of the current increased by placing the 
electrodes in the ground at a depth of 10 centimetres (4 inches) below 
the bottom of a pit from 1 to L* metres (3 to 7 feet) deep ; and while in 
excavations of inconsiderable depth, the ascending current has marked 
from 15° to 1(P, in those much deeper, and in wells, it has indicated 
more than 20^. When the electrodes are in a very superficial stratum 
the deviation is less fixed than when they float in tlie water of wells. 
In the latter case the deviation remains constant from hour to hour, if 
the day is clear and calm, nor is it changed by reversing the position of 
the electrodes in the wells. 

It may, I think, be of use to cite here a series of numbers v.iiich 
exhibit the deviations realized on certain days of July, 1804:, v.ith elec- 
trodes sunk in excavations having a depth of 2 metres (7 feet.) The 
atmospheric electricity was of moderate intensity and constantly posi- 
tive; tlie sky in part clear, and in part overcast. The galvanometer 
with which I operated was one of 2,000 coils. 







>^i 2 








&■■ ? =; 








::ga 
















^ t-i 
















ji S a 
























O -t— -rH 








,S u*; _. 








'i = "S -* 




Day. 


Hour. 


t'St'i 


state of the sky. 


Day. 


Hour. 


fjl 


State of the sky. 




















i-i 








'"' 








Degrees. 








Decrees. 




Julj 15 


7 a. m. 


23 


Electricity + abun- 


July IC 


12.20 p. m. 


'25 






7.30 a. m. 


23 to 26 


dant; .sky clear, 




1 p. m. 


25 






7.45 a. m. 


23 to 26 


and27=C.,(80OF.) 




2.30 p. m. 


2:! 






8 a.m. 


23 to 24 






3 p. m. 


19 






8.12 a. ui. 


22 to 23 






4.30 p. m. 


30 






8.18 a. m. 


23 






5 p.m. 


28 






8.20 a. m. 


24 






5.30 p. m. 


27 






8.30 a. m. 


23 to 24 






6 p.m. 


23 






9 a. m. 


23 to 24 


Electricity positive 




7 p. m. 


27 






9.20 a. m. 


23 to 25 


minimum. 




7.30 p. m. 


28 






10 a. m. 


25 






8 p. m. 


28 


^ 




10.30 a. El. 


22 


Cloud.s sparse and 




8.30 p. m. 


28 






11 a.in. 


24 


+ 27° C. 




9 p. m. 


27.... 


Storm. 




11.30 a.m. 


24 






9.30 p. m. 


28 






12 m. 


23 






10.30 p. m. 


27 






12.30 p. m. 


25 




July 17 


5.30 a. m. 


29 


Fair and calm af- 




1 p. m. 


24 to 25 






8 a. m. 


30 


ter the storm of 




1.30 p. m. 


23 to 24 






9 a.m. 


34 


the night. 




2 p. ui. 


24 






9.15 a. m. 


35 






2.30 p. m. 


27 






9.35 a. m. 


35 






3 p. m. 


24 






10 a. m. 


35 






3.18 p.m. 


23 to 24 






10.30 a. m. 


34 






3.30 p. m. 


28 






10.00 a. m. 


33 






4 p. m. 


16 






11 a.m. 


33 






4.30 p. m. 


17 






11.10 a. m. 


34 






5 p. m. 


18 






11.30 a. m. 


33 






6 1). m. 


18 






11.40 a. m. 


33 






6.30 p. m. 


19 






12 m. 


31 






7 p. m. 


20 






12.20 p. m. 


31 






7.30 p. m. 


21 to 22 






12.30 p. m. 


31 






8 p. m. 


22 






1.30 p. m. 


29 






8.30 p. m. 


24 






2 p. m. 


28 






p. m. 


20 






2.30 p. m. 


20 






9.30 p. m. 


22 






3.30 p. m. 


25 






10 p. m. 


24 






4.10 p. m. 


24 






10.30 p. m. 


25 






4.35 p. m. 


28 






11 p.m. 


25 






4.40 p. m. 


28 




July io 


4 a. m. 


25 






5.25 p. m. 


27 






7 a. m. 


23 to 24 






6.30 p. m. 


28 






9.30 a. m. 


25 






7 p. m. 


25 






10 a. m. 


24 






7.15 p. m. 


25 






11 a. m. 


25 













218 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 



It is impossible to discover in tlie numbers here reported any relation 
between the intensity of the terrestrial current and the hour of the 
day. The augmentation observed at the close of the IGth day, aud in 
"the morning of the 17th, was probably owing to the rain which fell in 
that interval, and in fact this result never fails to be obtained when we 
sprinkle two or three buckets of water around the electrodes. In the 
first hoiu\s of each of the days cited, I assured myself of tlie homoge- 
neity of the electrodes by immersing them simultaneously in the water 
and from time to time reversing tlieir position. The most important 
in'ecaution is that of frequently ascertaining that the water maintains a 
constant level in tlie cavities in which are immersed the porcelain cylin- 
ders of the electrodes. 

I further report the numbers obtained in one of the observations 
■which I conducted with the electrodes suspended in two wells, one at 
the top, the other at the base of the hill before mentioned. These num- 
bers were obtained with the galvanometer of 1,,500 coils. In this exper- 
iment the position of the electrodes was twice mverted. 







s S o 
III 








S s^ 

S o o 




Day. 


Hour. 


11^ 


State of the sky. 


Day. 


Hour. 




State of tlie sky. 


July 25 


12.15 a. m. 
2.24 a. m. 


Degrees. 
32. . . . 
32 


Clear. 


July 25 


2 p.m. 
2.30 p. m. 


Degrees. 
40 
42 






5.30 X. m. 


40 






3 p.m. 


40 






5.50 a. m. 


42 






4 p. m. 


40 






C.20 a. m. 


42 






5 p. m. 


40 






7.45 a. m. 


40 






8.30 p. m. 


40 






8.30 a. m. 


40 






9 p. m. 


40 






10 a. m. 


42 






9.30 p. m. 


40 






11 a. m. 


40 






10 p. m. 


40 






12 m. 


40 






10.30 p. m. 


41 






12.30 p. m. 


40 




July 26 


12.30 a. m. 


41 





It is evident from the above that tlie deviation produced by the use 
of electrodes floating in the water of wells is more constant than that 
resulting from their employment when sunk, as we have described, in 
the earth, for in the latter case the water in which the cylinders are 
immersed is continually decreasing. I ought here to observe that, 
having taken advantage of a well, situated midway on the slope of the 
hill of Turin, I repeated these experiments with the same length as 
before of the metallic line, and in one case with a stratum of earth ex- 
tending from the base to about the middle of the hill, and in the other 
case from the middle to the to^), the electrodes being all the time im- 
mersed in wells; in the experiments in which the terrestrial circuit was 
thus about half that before used, the fixed deviation of the ascending 
current was 10° ; much less therefore than that obtained between the 
base and summit of the hill , 

I deem it proper further to describe the principal results derived from 
an uninterrupted series of experiments made through all the months of 
last summer, in the hills around Florence. The line was composed of 
the usual copper wire covered with gutta-percha, suspended upon poles 
and interrupted about midway of its entrance into the laboratory, where 
the two ends were immersed simultaneously with the wires of the gal- 
vanometer of 1,500 coils, in two small vases filled with quicksilver. In 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 



219 



many experiments I have used another but similar line, whicli enabled 
me to test, by comparison with one another, the two electrodes immersed 
in close contiguity, now in the lower station, now in the ui>per. The 
electrodes were the usual plates of amalgamated zinc, immersed in the 
solution of sulphate of zinc contained m porcelain cylinders, which cyl- 
inders were immersed in turn in well or spring- water contained in two 
vases of terra-cotta, buried in the earth. It is useless to state that 
these electrodes were hrst tested, and that every precaution was used 
to ascertain their homogeneitj^ At the two extremities, after selecting- 
a soil having- very nearly the same qualities, I excavtited two holes, with 
a width and depth of one metre, {3 feet,') Ayhich I hlled with the same 
earth, and into the holes thus prepared introduced the vases with the 
two electrodes. On each day of experimenting, I began and finished 
by reversing the position of the vases, in order to assure myself that 
the deviations were independent of the electrodes, and that, when tested 
in contact, the latter were perceptibly homogeneous. The difference of 
level between the two electrodes was about 55 metres, (ISO feet.) 

Simultaneously with the observations of the electric currents in the 
circuit, I studied at the extreme stations the atmospheric electricity in 
the way already described. On clear and calm days I have alw'ays 
found very strong- signs of positive electricity near the upper station, 
and no signs or very weak ones of the same electricity in the valley 
below, near the lower station; indeed, at this station tlie same thing- 
occurred even in stormy weather. At the upper station the signs 
changed according to the intensity and distance of the existing storm, 
as Ave shall again mention. I select the numbers obtained on the 2d, 
3d, and 4th days of July, when the air was warm and dry, and the 
weather calm with the exception of a distant storm which was observed 
on the 3d, some hours after midday. On the 2d, from morning until 10 
at night, the current continued to ascend in the metallic line, and re- 
mained fixed at between 15° and 10° during- the morning, and between 
11° and 12° iu the afternoon. The results of the 3d were the following : 



Hour. 


Deviation. 


Hour. 


Deviation. 


Horn-. 


Deviation. 


Honr. 


Deviation. 


8 a. m.. 
9.42 a. m.. 
12 m . . . . 
I.IG p. m.. 
1.30 p. m.. 


Degrees. 
13 to 14 
15 
8 
I'J 
12 to 13 


2.32 p.m... 
2.40 p. m. . . 
2.45 p. m... 
2.48 p.m... 
3 p.m.-. 


Degrees. 
18 
18 
18 
15 
18 


3.12 p. m... 
3.43 p. m... 
3.50 p. m. .. 
4.5 p. m. .. 
4.20 p. m... 


Degrees. 
15 
18 

18 
15 

18 


4.40 p.m.. 
5.40 p.m.. 
8.50 p. m.. 
9.30 p. m.. 
10.15 p. m.. 


Degrees. 
17 
18 
14 
30 
15 



The electrodes having been left in place all night, the current Avas 
found the next morning, fixed at between 14° and 15°, and the same 
deAiation remained on reversing the position of the electrodes. 

I report also the numbers obtained May 30, on which day a peculiar 
storm occurred, a strong sirocco Avind having prevailed. Avhile for some 
time the sky was covered Avith dense clouds traversed by electric dis 
charges in the distance. Eain also fell. 



220 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 











1-9 




Hour. 


"!fl 


State of the sky. 


Hour. 


^ s'-? 


State of the .sky. 








fi-S*^ 






c'S ^ 






C':; S 






■^ a S 






•^ a a 






no" 






a ^ ^ 






.« o o 






.« o o 






k x^ 






> te^ 






o C3+3 






o c+- 






O 






fi 






Degrees. 




Degrees. 






7 a. 111. 


22 


Ilain for some time. 


2.10 p.m. 


r) 




8 a. 111. 


18 to 20 




2.15 p.m. 


(*) 




9.14 a. 111. 


23 ■ 




2.30 p.m. 


(*) 




12 111. 


20 


Strong wind. 


2.3Gp.in. 


(*) 




12.20p. m. 


21 




2.40 p.m. 


10 


Heavy rain, which lasts until 


1-2.30 p. in. 


20 




2.50 p. m. 


10 


4 p'. m., with thunder and 


12.37 p.m. 


18 




2.53 p.m. 


15 


lishtninn;, and dense black 


12.45 p. 111. 


20 




3 \r. m. 


20 


clouds oil the Imo. 


1 p. m. 


20 




3.10 p.m. 


20 




1.15 p. 111. 


15 




3.15 p.m. 


20 




1.20 p. 111. 


10 




3.18 p. til. 


22 




1.30 p. 111. 


8 




3.29 p. 111. 


25 




1.40 p. m. 


5 




3.23 p.m. 


23 




1.45 p. 111. 


(*).--. 


Stormy clouds, very low and 


3.30 p.m. 


20 




1.50 p. 111. 


i*) 


men'acinji, flashes of lij^ht- 


3.35 p. m. 


25 




2.5 p. m. 


(*) 


uiug, thunder and raiii. 


3.38 p.m. 


25 




2.8 p.m. 


(•) 











(*) jSTeedlo oscillates between 5° and 0°. 

Up to tills moment tlie needle oscillated slightly ; bnt afterwards, 
under tlie action of the storm, the needle made great oscillations, though 
always to the side in which the current maintains it, and at the close of 
the day the deviation seemed lixed at about 00°. It has already been 
said, that on July 2, with a clear sky and the air warm and dry, the 
deviation was re-established and fixed at between 15° and UP. 

During a storm on the 7th I kept the electroscope in exercise for a 
length of time at the intermediate station, and constantly realized great 
oscillations of the needle, even to zero, when the instrument gave signs 
of negative electricity or very weak signs of positive electricity. Under 
strong winds also these oscillations were verified. Again, the usual 
deviation of the ascending- current increased slowly or rapidly, according 
as the electroscope indicated a corresponding augmentation in the signs 
of positive electricity, or a sudden augmentation of the same electricity 
at the moment of a flash of lightning In many other series of experi- 
ments, which I deem it needless to report, I have always found in calm 
and clear days a deviation nearly constant, a result which I have never 
witnessed during storms nor even on clear days during high winds and 
great oscillations of the atmospheric pressure. 

I proceetl to describe the experiments executed upon a mixed circuit 
in which the metallic conductor, an iron wire of 3 millimetres, (^ inch,) 
and well insulated, had a length of about 45 kilometres, (28 miles.) The 
two extreme stations, which were Pontedera and Volterra, were at a dif- 
ference of elevation amounting to 540 metres, (1,772 feet.) The experi- 
ments were performed in the nights of the 11th and 23d of July, under 
a calm and serene sky, commencing at 7.30 p. m. and terminating at 
4.45 a. m. 

In the line between Pontedera and Volterra the telegraphic offices are 
closed at night; and in order to be more certain that no current of the 
telegraph could be introduced during the experiments on the line, I pro- 
vided for an interruption of the latter at each extremity, at the distance 
of a pole or two from the office; at the point of interruption I soldered a 
piece of copper Avire covered with gutta-percha, which at the station of 
Volterra descended immediately into the earth, where it was united to 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 



tlie electrode of zinc sunk in the ground in tlie usual manner, while at 
the station of Pontedera, where the galvanometer was placed, tlxe above- 
mentioned wire proceeded to one of the ends of the galvanometer, while 
the other end was made to communicate with a copper wire covered 
w"ith gutta-percha which terminated at the earth and united with the 
other electrode of zinc. 

The following are the numbers obtained from the two experiments, 
in both of which the constant deviation of the needle indicated the usual 
ascending current in the wire: 



July it. 


July 23. 


Hour. 


Deviation. 


Hour. 


Deviation. 


Hour. 


Deviation. 


Hour. 


De^■iation. 


7.30 p.m.. 


n 


11.30 p.m.. 


10 


8 p.m... 


C 


10 p.m.. 


20 


8 p. m . . 


11 


1 a. ni. . 


15 


8. 15 p.m... 


20 


10.15 X). m.. 


10 


8.30 p.m.. 


13 


1.30 a.m.. 


15 


8.30 p.m... 


30 to 40 


12.30 a.m.. 


25 


9 p.m.. 


10 


2 a.m.- 


14 


8.45 p.m... 


28 


2.35 a.m.. 


40 


9.30 p.m.. 


1-2 


2.30 a.m.. 


15 


9 p.m.-. 


28 


3 a.m.. 


36 


10.15 p.m.. 


10 


3 a.m.. 


18 


9. 20 p. m . . . 


10 


3.55 a. m.. 


38 


10. 30 p. m . . 


1-2 


4 a.m.- 


21 


9. 25 p. m . . . 


20 






1 1 p. ra . . 


10 


4. 30 a.m.. 


8 


9.30 p.m... 


22 






11. 15 p. m.. 


IG 


4. 45 a. m.. 


10 


9. 45 p. m . . . 


30 







lu these experiments, especially in that of the night of the 11th of 
July, the deviation had been constant in the interval between one obser- 
vation and another, and the variations took i)lace very slowly. But 
this constancy was not so absolute as that noticed in the iirevious 
experiments with a short circuit; the needle in these experiments 
between Volterra and Pontedera haviug constantly exhibited a sort of 
tremulous oscillation in an arc, which was never greater than one 
degree. Moreover, as well in the experiments of the lltli as in those 
of the 23(1 of July, it was observed that, thrice on the former iind four 
times on the latter night, at various intervals of time, the deflected 
needle, which had seemed fi.xed, suddenly descended to 0^ and oscillated, 
oftenest for a few seconds, but on one occasion for about an hour in the 
opposite quadrant, never taking a tixed direction, and returning by a 
rapid movement to its stationary position under the ascending current. 
Tliese extraordinary movements of the needle, I am persuaded, though 
without being able absolutely to affirm it, were independent of the errors 
of the experiments, even counting among these the case of a voltaic 
current introduced for a moment into the circuit at Volterra, where I was 
not present. 

The last series of experiments which I shall report, relates to observa- 
tions made on a long telegraphic line from I\T.'ea to Courmayeur, first in 
October, 1801, and again in November, 18G6. These experiments were 
made in three different sections, of which that line is composed. The 
first, between Ivrea and iSt. Vincent, nearly parallel to the meridian, is 
30 kilometres (22 miles) in length, with a difference of level between the 
extremities of 281 metres, (922 feet.) The second section between St. 
Vincent and Aosta is 25 kilometres (10 miles) long, and the difference 
of level, S3 metres, (272 feet.) The third, between Aosta and Courmayeur, 
at the extremity of the valley at the foot of Monte Bianco, is 27 kilo- 
metres (17 miles) long, and the difference of level of the two extremities 
012 metres, (2,103 feet.) In 1801 the experiments were made separately 
in the three sections of the line; in tho.se of 1800, only two sections, 
that, namely, between Ivrea and Aosta, and that between Aosta auc 



222 ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 

Courmayeur, were brought iuto requisition. The wire was the usual 
ii'oii one, from 3 to 4 millimetres (^-iuch) in diameter. 

Before the experiments, the entire line had been inspected, repaired, 
and insulated with care, so that there was no sensible movement in the 
needle on introducing a current into the line, while the opposite end 
was insulated in the air. I emph\ved the usual electrodes of zinc, im- 
mersing tbem in the water of wells when I could, or introducing them 
into holes made in the ground and tilled with identically the same water, 
which was that of the Dora. Between Ivrea, St. Vincent, and Aosta, 
the experiments were always made in the night, when the telegraphic 
offices were closed ; in the last experiments between Aosta and Cour- 
mayeur, where the telegraphic service ceases in September, the experi- 
ments might be made with confidence at any hour of the day. The 
results obtained in the first series of experiments, as heretofore de- 
scribed in the Gomptes-rendm of the Academy of Paris, (September 19, 
1804,) were as follows: The electric currents obtained in the three lines 
of the valley of iVosta, notwithstanding the much greater resistance of 
the metallic portion oi^ these. lines in comparison with the line of 000 
metres, (1,009 feet,) on which I had operated in the hills near Turin, 
gave with the same galvanometer much stronger currents, measured by 
the deviations more or less fixed of 40^, 00°, and even 80°, instead of 
20° to 25° at most obtained in the shorter line. At all times, when the 
deviations became fixed — and this was sometimes the case, even for the 
space of an hour — the deviation indicated an ascending current in the 
metallic line. But a certain tremor of the needle was noticed, and from 
time to time, as in the experiments between Pontedera and Volterra, 
the needle descended suddenly to 0°, about which it oscillated, or even 
passed into the opposite quadrant, returning afterwards to the fixed 
deviation [)rescribed by the ascending current of the wire. In this case, 
also, I have every reason to believe, though I will not absolutely atfirm 
it, that no voltaic current was introduced at such moments into the 
circuit so as to produce the oscillations in question. 

The experiments made in November, 1800, were conducted under 
better conditions when the correspondence between Courmayeur and 
Aosta had been suspended for two months. In these I was assisted by 
Siguor Eccher, adjunct of the chair of physics in this museum, to whose 
zeal and lo^e for science it is due that even under unfavorable circum- 
stances of weather and place, especially in the winter, all possible pre- 
cautions were used m order that the experiments might yield exact 
results. At each extremity of the line three similar vases of earth were 
sunk -U a formation of nearly identical qualities at a certain distance 
from one another, and the current was measured by transferring in 
succession the electrodes of zinc immersed in porcelain cylinders and 
ascertained to be homogeneous, now to one and now to another of the 
earthen vases, all of which, at either extremity, were filled with water 
from the same source. 

The experiments between Aosta and Courmayeur were made on the 
3d of November, 1800, at 8 o'clock in the morning; the atmospheric 
electricity at Courmayeur was feebly positive ; snow had fallen in the 
night on elevated places, and the clouds were dissipated only at the 
rising of the sun. At 8.45, the line was tested in order to ascertain its 
insulation, which was found to be perfect. The experiments yielded 
the following results : 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 



223 







~ d 




s 




to •§ 3 


Observatioaa. 


o 






s 


fi 


I-) 




9. 15 a. m. 


30^ 


20^—43=' 


Tlie extrpiuo liolcs u.-^cil which we will call Xo. 1 and Xo. 1'. 


9. 30 a. m. 


41 


30 —51 


Needle nearly tirui, oscillating only between 38 and 45. 


9. 45 a. m. 


52 


50 —55 


Xeedle nearly inr.ii()val)le. 


10 a. m. 






The coinuranicationsheingwithdrawnthenepdlegocstoOo ; they are reacored 
between holes Xo. 1 Couruiaycur and No. 2 Aosta. 


10. 10 a. m. 


50 


40 —55 




10. 20 a. m. 


51 


49 —54 


Needle nearly firm. 


10. :jo a. m. 


52 


50 —58 


Slow oscillation 


10. 40 a. 111. 


54 




Absolutely firm. 

Signs ot'iiositlve electricity stronger than in the morning. 


10. 45 a. m. 






10. 58 a. m. 


'54' 


■-is'J-GO ' 


Very fcclili' (iscillation. 


11 a. m. 






Communications lieing withdrawn the needle goes to 0° ; restored between 
hole No. 3 .Vosta anil No. 2 Couriuayeur. 


11.10 a.m. 


52 


46 —60 


Needle nearly Urm. 


11.20 a. in. 


52 


46 —60 


Idem. 


11. 35 a. m. 


47 


30 —51 


Between holes No. 3 and No. 3 of the two sides needle oscillates. 


11. 45 a. 111. 


45 


25 —50 


Idem. 


12 m. 






Communications removed and restored between hole No. 1 Aosta and No. 3 








Courinayeur. 


1. 05 p. m. 


36 


30 —50 


Small oscillations. 


1. 10 p. m. 


34 


20 —42 


Almost (luiet. 


1. 15 p. m. 


30 


20 —48 


O.scillations; the holes are No. 1 and No. 1 of the two .sides. 


1. 20 p. ui. 


33 


29 —50 


Light oscillations. 


1. 25 p. ni. 


42 


35 —50 


Scarcely oscillates. 


1. 30 p. HI. 






Commitnications removed and replaced between No. 2 Aosta and No. 1 Cour- 
mayeur. 


1. 35 p. m. 


45 


40 —52 


Light oscillations. 


1. 40 p. iii. 
1. 45 p. m. 


40 




Needle tirm. 


52 




Idem ; between the holes No. 2 on both sides. 


1. 55 p. m. 


52 




Idem. 


2 p. m. 






Holes No. 2 on both sides. 


2. 08 p. m. 


'48' 


46'— 52" 


Nearly liim ; holes No. 3 on both sides. 


2. 15 p. lu. 
2. 20 p. m. 


19 

50 




N(^edle lirm. 


45—53' 


Light oscillations. 



It is proper to add that at the two stations of Aosta and Courinayeur, 
two electrodes of copper were also in operation, consisting of two plates 
of that metal, with a surface of about a third of a square metre, and 
buried at a dei^th of about one metre. These plates were employed as 
electrodes after having- been buried for two days. On the day of the 3d 
of November, with these electrodes of copper, and at intervals of some 
hours, there was a nearly lixed deviation in the same direction with 
those of the electrodes of zinc, and indicating, from 12 o'clock to 1-J.48, 
successively (>5o, 70°, 09^, and from i>.40 to sr^O, G9^ and GS^. All the 
deviations above reported indicated «n ascending current in the metallic 
portion of the circuit. 

I shall only cite, in addition to the above, the experiments made on 
the line between Ivrea and Aosta, having a length of about IGO kilo- 
metres, (1)9 miles,) and a difference of level between the extremities ecpial 
to 3G4 metres, (1,194 feet.) These experiments were conducted precisely 
like those just described at length, between Aosta and Courmuyeur, 
and were executed during the days of the 5th and Gth of November. 
The atmospheric electricity, always positive, was at Aosta considerably 
more intense than in the experiments made at Courmayeur. 

The current which circulated in this line was constantly an ascending- 
one in the metallic part of the circuit, and for many hours the deviation 
oscillated betw^een 40° and 50°. On the second day the air waw per- 
fectly serene, the sun lustrous, and the signs of atmospheric electricity 
constantly progressive. The needle remained deflected for several 
hours, and apparently fixed between G0° and Gl^ by an ascending cur- 
rent in the metallic line. Here also the plates of copper, sunk in the 



224 ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 

ground at the depth of a metre, (3 feet,) were tried as electrodes, and 
the deviation obtained, the needle continuing nearly immovable, was 
from 114° to G50. 

GENERAL CONCLUSIONS. 

The experiments described in this memoir point to the following con- 
clusions : 

1. If a metallic line be insulated from the ground or suspended at a 
certain heiglit, or in actual contact with the ground, and its extremities 
be sunk in the earth, in good communication with the latter by means 
of perfectly homogeneous electrodes, with a certainty that there does 
not exist any electro-motive force between the parts of the metallic cir- 
cuit, or between the earth and the electrodes, it will be found that there 
is in that line a constant circulation of electricity, whenever the line, 
having a rectilinear length of at least G kilometres, (4 miles,) has its ex- 
tremities sunk very nearly at the same elevation and in a horizontal 
stratum, or, if the length of the line be much shorter, when its extremi- 
ties are sunk in the ground at a different degree of elevation. 

2. When a metallic line has a length of kilometres, (4 miles,) and 
its extremities are sunk in a horizontal stratum, there is in that line a 
current having a constant direction from south to north, if the line be 
extended on the meridian ; if the wire be extended in an equatorial di- 
rection, the signs of the electric current which circulates therein are 
very variable and without a fixed direction. 

3. In a metallic line much shorter, say 300 metres (984 feet) to com- 
mence with, there is a constant circulation of electricity, if the extremi- 
ties are sunk in the ground at a different elevation as regards one an- 
other. In that case, the current is one constantly ascending in the me- 
tallic line. 

4. This ascending current has an intensity which, notwithstanding 
the greater resistance of the circuit, increases with the length of the 
circuits, and increases also with the difference of level of the j)oiuts at 
which the extremities of the line are sunk. But in circuits which are of 
considerable length, and in which there is a great difference of altitude 
between the extremities, the intensity of the ascending current is not 
so constant as in short circuits. 

These results change in the presence of storms, and also in great at- 
mospheric perturbations ; in such cases the intensity of the terrestrial 
current, and likewise its direction, are subject to very considerable va- 
riations. 

HypotJiesis rcspccthuj the origin of the terrestrial current. — I shall be 
very brief on this point, as these researches are still deficient in that ex- 
tent which would be requisite for success in interpreting a phenomenon 
necessarily obscure and highly complicated when submitted to rigorous 
investigation. 

When we consider that the resistance to the electric current of a ter- 
restrial stratum is nearly null, and that it does not vary with the length 
of the stratum, it is not easy to see an analogy between these currents 
and derived currents properly so called. 

Associated as the terrestrial currents are with the apparition of the 
aurora borealis, and with the great variations of terrestrial magnetism, 
the probability naturally suggests itself of an intimate relation between 
these currents and the causes of the magnetism of the earth, as well as 
of the electric state of the earth itself and of the air. If, as has been 
proved by experiment, the earth is a body charged with negative elec- 
tricity ; if, as in effect is the case, the tension of this electric state of the 



ELECTRICAL CURRENTS OF THE EARTH. 225 

eartli iDcreases with tlie altitude of terrestrial ])oints, it can be con- 
ceived that a metallic line, one extremity of which touches the bottom 
of a valley and the other a summit, should be traversed by an ascendiug 
electric current, with an inteusity ])roportional to the difference of the 
electric potentialities of the two points, ^ince, then, the electric state 
of the earth varies even in clear and cahn days at the various hours of 
the day, the electric current of the earth also might derive, from that 
law of atmospheric electricity, its origin in metallic lines, touching the 
ground with their extremities, provided the lines be very long ones. 

But i)henomena so obscure and complex demand great reserve in anj" 
attempts which are made to explain them, and it is only from those new 
and persevering researches which we invoked at the beginning of this 
memoir, that greater light can be hoped for in regard to a phenomenon of 
so much importance in terrestrial physics. 



15 s 69 



LECTURES ON THE PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT 
IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



By M. Marev, of tlie College of France. 



[^Translated from the Ecvue Des Cours Sdentiftques, for the SmWisonian Institution.'] 

We shall occupy ourselves on this occasion in the discussion of a 
question which is connected with our first studies on motion, as one of 
the functions of life, namely, with the — 

NATUEE OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

night is a process of locomotion, in some cases indispensable and in 
others accessory to the life of an immense number of living beings. It 
is not confined to insects and birds that live habitually in the air, or to 
certain mammals, such as bats, but is also common to animals which 
are essentially confined, by their organization, to a terrestrial or aquatic 
life, such as flying and dragon fish, gecko-lizards, aud, above all, to ptero- 
dactyles, a race at present extinct. The field on which we are about to 
enter is very extensive ; and although it has been long cultivated, it 
would not be surprising if we should find that it has not been entirely 
exhausted, or that it is still capable of yielding new facts. 

In beginning, for the first time, the study of locomotion, we should 
address ourselves to the origin of the phenomena connected with the 
subject, and we would pause upon the elementary apparatus which is 
its special organ, namely, muscular fiber, and also upon the elementary 
function of this indispensable organ, namely, muscular contraction. We 
have, however, considered these in their general application to motion 
in i:>revious lectures, and need only recall them to mind in this place. 
The evident manifestation of animal motion is the production of a 
change of place, or locomotion; but what we are now to consider espe- 
cially is aerial locomotion or flight. 

Animal motion presents a series of complex phenomena; for exam- 
ple, when we bend a finger, and examine the series of events which 
occurs in the production of the desired result, we find, at the beginning, 
first, the operation of the will, ov ix, psychical action; secondly, the trans- 
mission of the influence of the will, or a nervous action; thirdly, the 
contraction of the muscles, or muscular action; and, fourthly, the motion 
of the finger, which is a mechanical action. In the study of these phe- 
nomena with which shall we commence"? A philosopher of the past, a 
8piuozist, would not hesitate in answering, but would say at once, the 
logical order should be observed; the examination of the action of the 
will should be first made; and the other phenomena deduced from the 
result of this, as the primary cause. But this method is the one which 
the modern school of science rejects. The investigators of our day re- 
verse this order, and, instead of descending from causes to effects, ascend 
from eflects to causes, from more simple and evident phenomena to those 
which are more complex and hidden. If we first attemj)t to grapple with 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 227 

the psychical plienomeua in the series we have mentioned, we shall find 
ourselves at ouce encoimteriug difficulties far beyond our power to over- 
come. If it be true, as has been said, that all investigation, when reduced 
to its ultimate element, is measurement, how can that be iuvestigated 
which is beyond the reach of all measurement? What unit will serve to 
express in figures the phenomena of intelligence, icill, and sensibility f 
These, although similar in some respects, and belonging to the same gen- 
eral class of phenomena, are so heterogeneous to others with which they 
are associated as to admit of no comparison. Physiologists, therefore, 
address themselves, as we have said, at first to the study of the phenom- 
ena which ofler the most easy study, and these are almost always the 
last terms of a series of acts such as those which I have mentioned. 
Each successive discovery, then, facilitates further advance, and enables 
the investigator to rise toward results which at first appear unattainable, 
and to elevate himself almost to the level of those questions on which 
speculative philosophy has spent itself in fruitless efforts. We, therefore, 
commence with the study of muscular action. The first step in this 
was made when the unattainable inflnence of the will was replaced 
by the electrical stimulus; muscular contraction then commenced to be 
studied by itself, separate from all extraneous influences. 

You know of what assistance in studies of this kind is the application 
of the graphic method with the registering apparatus. It was by means 
of this method, and the instrument called the myograph, that Helm- 
holtz, in 1850, prosecuted his admirable researches on muscular action, 
and I was enabled to add my contributions to the theory of muscular 
contraction. The myograph enables us to note the exact instant when 
the phenomenon begins, its duration, and extent ; while the curve traced 
on the cylinder makes known all the circumstances of its production. 
Xovr, the possibility of noting the precise instant of the muscular con- 
traction furnishes us with the means of the examination of the second 
of the acts which form the object of our researches, namely, the trans- 
mission of the nervous force. 

Up to a very recent date, even as late as 1815, it was thought that 
sensitive impressions were transmitted to the brain from the extremi- 
ties, and that the impulse of the will returned with the rapidity of 
lightning, the time necessary for the transmission being regarded as 
infinitely small; and, indeed, some physiologists, Miiller among others, 
contended that this point never could l3e settled by science. Tlie honor 
of falsifying this prediction belongs to Helmholtz, who carried out, in 
1850, a programme of experiments, suggested by Du Bois-Raymond 
five years before. He proved that the time taken ,by nervous force to 
traverse the length of a specified nerve could be accurately measured. 
After him, Valentine, Du Bois-Raymond, Bonders, and Marey repeated 
the experiments, and considerably simplified the method of operation. 

In all the researches the plan which was followed consisted, first, in ex- 
citing a nerve in the neighborhood of the muscle to which it belonged, 
and determining the interval which elapsed between this irritation and the 
contraction which resulted from it ; secondly, in stimulating the nerve at 
a greater distance from the muscle, and determining how much longer con- 
traction was retarded than in the former case. This delay necessarily 
follows from the greater distance which the nerve-impulse has to traverse 
in the second case, and thus indicates the rapidity of this agent along 
the nerve which has been operated upon, or, in other words, furnishes the 
means for the deduction of the absolute velocity of the nervous im- 
pulse. Helmholtz found that about 0,00175 of a second was occupied 
by a nervous impulse in traversing a distance of forty-three millimeters, 



228 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

«vliicli corresponds to a velocity of twenty-six meters per second. This 
velocity, however, varies somewhat with the conditions of the organ on 
which the experiment is performed. I shall not dwell on these points, 
which are already pnblished, but shall call your attention to this re- 
markable fact, bearing directly upon our thesis, namely, that the meas- 
urement of the nervous transmission enables us to rise to the study 
of psychical action. " Has thought no longer the infinite rapidity 
Avhich has been habitually attributed to it, and is it possible to measure 
the time necessary for the formation of an idea or a determination of 
the will ? " Such are the terms in which Bonders expresses the prob- 
lem. 

The first researches on this interesting subject are due to the astrono- 
mers. Toward the year 1790 a curious fact was announced by Maske- 
lyne, who stated that in the estimation of the passage of stars across 
the thread of a meridian telescope, there was a constant discrepancy 
between his observations and those of his aid, Kinnebrock. Later, 
Bessel, comparing the observations of other astronomers with his own, 
l^erceived that most of the observers signalized the passage of stars a 
little later than he did, the difference in some cases being more than 
a second. These observations attracted the attention of astronomers 
generally. They commenced to study the jihenomenon under the name 
of the personal equation^ and to ascertain its absolute value. To illustrate 
the method of obtaining this result, we shall only describe the process 
lately invented by M. Wolf, of the Paris observatory. He arranged a 
luminous bull's-eye, a kind of artificial star, so that it moved at a uni- 
form rate along a curved line, resembling the trajectory of a true star. 
At the moment this luminary actually passes before the thread of the 
telescope, or at the moment when its center coincides with the central 
thread, it closes the circuit of a galvanic battery ; at this precise instant, 
an electric current, excited by the completion of the circuit, records the 
passage of the star on a revolving cylinder. Moreover, the observer, at 
the moment when he perceives the passage of the artificial star before the 
thread of the telescope, by jiressing a spring, records the instant on the 
same chronograph. The interval between the two signals, estimated in 
fractions of a second, measures the lapse of time between the real pas- 
sage of the star and the estimation of its passage by the observer. This 
is the absolute value of the personal equation, which remains nearly the 
same for each observer, unless, being aware of it, he endeavors to cor- 
rect it. M. Wolf reduced his error from three-tenths to one-tenth of a 
second. 

From a f)hysiological point of view, we may ask. What is this personal 
equation 1 The astronomers, Bessel and Faye, have suggested the hy- 
pothesis that an intellectual operation is necessary for transmitting by 
a signal a perceived sensation. The phenomenon has not the less gen- 
erality from having been at first signalized by astronomers, and it may 
be said that a certain time always elapses between the instant of occur- 
rence of a phenomenon and the signal of an attentive observer that he 
perceives it. The duration which separates the impression from the 
signal of the reaction has been called t\i& 'physiological period. We owe 
very curious observations upon the variations of this physiological 
period to M. Hirsch, (of ISTeufchatel,) and especially to M. Bonders, and 
his pupils. 

Thus, the signal of reaction being always the same — for example, a 
motion of the hand, as in closing a galvanic current — it is observed that 
the signal is produced more rapidly if the impression is made upon the 
sense of hearing than if it is exercised uijon the sense of sight, and still 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 229 

more quickly by tactile irritatiou. If the impressiou is on the eye, the 
reaction of the hand takes place in one-flfth of a second ; if it is on the 
ear, in one-sixth of a second; and on the skin, in one-seventh of a second. 
Thus the physiological periods are among- themselves as the numbers 
one-tifth, one-sixth, one-seventh. But does this period of, for examjile, 
one-seventh of a second, which elapses between the moment when the 
skin is irritated and that when the observer moves his hand, corre- 
spond entirely to a psychical act? We answer no; it is necessary that 
the sensory impression should have time to reach the brain ; cerebral 
perception and volition being then accomplished, time is required for the 
motor impression to reach the muscle and determine its motion. Nor 
is this all. The impression once produced passes through the uerve 
with a known velocity, but this impression is not instantaneously pro- 
duced ; it needs time to take form, to be completed before becoming 
ready to traverse the nerve. It is not sufficient, therefore, to deduct 
from the total duration of one-seventh of a second, the duration of the 
passage of the sensory nerve-force and of the motor nerve-force, to con- 
clude that the remainder appertains to the psychical act. These experi- 
ments do not exhaust the subject. They do not make known the dura- 
tion of the cerebral act, nor even whether it has a duration. 

M. Bonders instituted in the meanwhile a series of experiments des- 
tined to remove all doubts. His method consists in augmenting the 
l)h3'siological period until the measurement of the intercalated intel- 
lectual operation can be clearly observed. 

The following is the plan of one of his experiments: 

First case. — The observer knows that an electric shock will be given 
to his right foot, while the signal of reaction is to be given by the right 
hand. 

Second case. — The observer does not know which foot will receive the 
irritation, and is instructed to give the signal by the hand of the irri- 
tated side. 

The physiological period measured in the two cases was longer in the 
latter by about one-fifteenth of a second. It is clear, all the other con- 
ditions being the same, that the difference in question represents the 
time necessary to determine upon which side the irritatiou had taken 
place, and to direct to the right or left side, conformably with the idea 
acquired, the action of the will. Consequently the solution of a di- 
lemma reduced to the most simple form is a cerebral action existing 
during one-fifteenth of a second. It is thus experimentally established 
that a cerebral action has a duration. We finally become assured that 
this duration is augmented in proportion as the psychical action be- 
comes more complicated, and that it is diminished when the action be- 
comes simplified. 

Instead of exciting the organs of touch, Bonders next experimented 
as follows on visual irritation : 

First case. — The observer executes a movement with the right hand 
upon the appearance of a white light. 

Second case. — A white light and a red light are employed, and the sig- 
nal of reaction is to be given with the right hand for the white light, 
and with the left hand for the red light. Under these conditions the 
solution of the dilemma consumes in the mind a more considerable 
time. Oij the contrary, in the case of auditory stimulation, the dilemma 
was solved by the mind in less time than in the case of visual stimula- 
tion. The author of these researches attributes this superiority of one 
sense over another to a facility derived from habit or exercise ; and, in 
fact, repetition tends to equalize the action in the case of the two hands. 



230 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

The elementary psycliical action which we have examined has not yet 
attained the greatest degree of simplicity. Since, in the solution of the 
preceding dilemmas, two operations of the brain can be distinguished — 
first, the distinction between different impressions ; second, the volition of 
an act chosen from among other acts — Bonders asked himself if it might 
not be possible to determine separately the time appertaining to each of 
these two terms. The following is the experiment which he instituted 
to attain this object : 

First case. — An observer was warned that a vowel would be pro- 
nounced, and was directed to reproduce the sound heard. 

Second case. — The observer in this second arrangement was directed 
to respond only to a single vowel — i,for example — and to keep silence for 
all others pronounced. His effort Avas then entirely directed toward the 
recognition of t, the vocal organs were placed in the proper position, and 
the impulse of the breath alone was needed to emit the corresponding 
sound. We readily comprehend how much the second term of the psy- 
chical action is simplified under these conditions. The will having only 
to apply itself to the production of such a sound, rather than any other, 
reacts, so to speak, without a previous judgment, and the signal follows 
the act of volition as simply as can be imagined. We naturally observe 
that this restricted operation occupies less time than the first by the 
amount of time necessary to respond to each sound with its equivalent, 
and this difference corresponds to the action no longer required by the 
brain. 

The preceding considerations indicate sufficiently the path which Ave 
have to follow. Having to study the function of aerial locomotion, we 
shall examine the organ which serves to accomplish it, namely, the 
wing. It is by the movements of their wings that animals sustain and 
direct themselves in the air. They strike the atmosphere Avith repeated 
blows, and the reaction of this fluid on the surface which they expose 
serves for the ijropulsion of the entire body. 

I. — Flight of insects. 

The first subject which presents itself for our investigation will be 
the inquiry as to the frequency of the motions of the wings of in- 
sects. Here we encounter the first difficulty. The moA'ements of the 
wings are so rapid in most cases that the eye cannot count or follow 
them. There are A^ery few insects which fly slowly enough to render 
this direct determination possible. Among the most common we may 
mention the white butterfly which is frequently met with in our fields, 
the cabbage Pieris. This insect, which has a jerking flight, seldom exe- 
cutes more than eight or nine moA^ements of the wing in a second; Avhile 
those insects Avhose flight is directed with precision and without jerks 
toward a tletermined point generally execute hundreds of strokes of 
the wing in a second. Thus, in the majority of cases, direct observa- 
tion cannot folloAV the wing of insects. We obserA'e a body in motion, 
but we only perceiA^e the extreme limits of its oscillation ; it may, how- 
ever, be said that these limits are seen with great precision. But 
that observation may be facilitated, it is necessary that the subject of it 
shall be placed in a faA^orable situation. We take, for example, one of 
those Macroglossa (sphynx moths) which frequently serve as the subject 
of experiments on account of their large size and the readiness with 
which they are obtained. Fastening its body Avith a pin between two 
strips of cork in such a way that it shall not turn around upon the 
axis which pierces it, and that the motion of its wings alone shall be en- 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 231 

tirely free and placing it before us, the wings being in motion, we 
perceive two oblique lines, which mark the limits of passage of each of 
its wings, while their intermediate positions continue to escape the most 
acute observation. 

It is hardly necessary to give an explanation of this fact. Every time 
that a body in rapid motion changes its direction to return on its steps 
and to traverse in a contrary direction the road which it has already 
traveled, a moment arrives when its motion, before change of direc- 
tion, becomes absolutely nothing ; this point of cessation, this dead- 
l)oint, is the extreme limit of oscillation. This is why the impression 
is produced before the wing has left the limiting position, and at the 
moment when the impression is about to be eftaced the wing has had 
time to make a complete oscillation and to return to its point of depart- 
ure, so that the new impression is confounded with the old one, and the 
eye experiences a continuous sensation, the result of the fusion of the 
intermittent sensations. But since the optical method is insufficient to 
inform us of the frequency of the vibrations of the wings, we must 
have recourse to another process. I may say, in advance, that the 
graphic process is the most exact of any we possess, and you shall be 
the judges of the results it will afford us. However, before broaching 
this new subject I cannot dispense with saying a few words on an inge- 
nious method based on the observation of the sound which insects pro- 
duce during their flight, and which we may designate as the acoustic 
method. 

Every one has heard the sound which insects produce while flying. 
If this vibratory buzzing is due to the strokes of the wing, and if they 
result from its alternate motion back and forth, as the sound of the reed 
results from the vibration of a metallic lamina, then in ascertaining the 
pitch of the sound the number of alternate vibrations to which it cor- 
responds will be known. For this, a tuning-fork, or a piano, is sufficient, 
with which we can compare the pitch of the sound produced by the 
insect. This method would be very conclusive if the principle upon 
which it rests was incontestably established. But on this i^oint there is 
a difference of opinion among naturalists. First, a number of sounds 
produced by insects can be definitely excluded, which are certainly not 
produced by the vibration of the wings. Certain coleoptera, for exam- 
ple, produce sound by rubbing tlie last upper segments of the abdomen 
against the elytra.* T. Lacordaire cites, among the insects which emit 
sound in this manner, the JSfecropliori, the Copri, the exotic Scarabi., and a 
host of lamellicorn beetles not found in Europe. Almost all the lamelli- 
corns produce a deep sound by rubbing the peduncle of their mesothoraxf 
iigainst the prothorax| in which it is inserted. Certain of the CicindelidWj 
the Oxycheila tristis, the Melasomidcv^ the Cacicus americanus^ rub their 
thighs or their hinder legs against the border of their elytra, pro- 
ducing in this way a peculiar noise. Ollivier, in the first volume of his 
entomology, mentions the fact that the female of a Cape of Good Hope 
insect, the Moluris striata, calls the male by rubbing a granular j)rotuber- 
ance upon the lower part of the second segment of the abdomen against 
extraneous objects. Finally, among the crickets one part of the anterior 
wings, thinner than the rest, forms a kind of drum or tympanum ; one 
of the nervures which traverses this drum is armed with denticles, on 
which, during the alternate motion of the wings one over another, the 

* Elytra: the hard outer wings of beetles. 

t Mesothorax : the second segment of tlie middle or leg-bearing division of the body 
-of a beetle. 

i Proiltorax : the first segment of the same. 



232 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

salient border of the opposite wing is rubbed in such a manner as to 
sound the drum and produce the noise familiar to every one. It will be 
understood that at present we eliminate all these sounds, the origin of 
which is evidently different from that of the vibrations of tlie wings, 
and confine ourselves to the very great number of cases in which the 
buzzing of the insect is manifestly produced by the rapid strokes of 
these organs. 

Chabrier and Lacordaire report that a portion of the wings of most 
insects can be destroyed without a cessation of the sound. " lu portions, 
as pieces of these organs are cut off, the sound becomes sharper, and sen- 
sibly more feeble, especially when we leave only a stump remaining. If 
this last be removed, which can only be done by a considerable laceration 
of the muscles which attach it to the thorax, the buzzing ceases entirely." 
" If," concludes the author, " the buzzing were entirely due to the wings, 
we could not cut off with impunity three-quarters of these organs." ' This 
objection confirms the hypothesis which it apparently was intended to 
disprove. In effect, since the sound is elevated in the same ratio in 
which the vibrating wing is diminished in length, is not this ijhenomenon 
entirely analogous to that which we observe when we have shortened 
a vibrating rod ? The modification produced in the sound being the 
same in both cases, should not the mechanism of its production be iden- 
tical"? At least the facts cannot be regarded otherwise, if the vibra- 
tions of the wings are really the cause of the buzzing. 

The authors whom we have j ust cited have indicated an entirely different 
cause for the acoustic phenomena. They have attributed them to the 
air which enters the tracheae, and which, passing rapidly outward, puts 
in vibration the little scaly organs which surround the base of the stig- 
mati.* And they cite, in contirmation of their views, this fact — that the 
buzzing also ceases if the surface of the body of the animal is covered 
with gum so that the excess of air to the respiratory canals is prevented. 
The lips of the stigmati act as the lips of the glottis do in superior animals, 
and the buzzing of the insect, therefore, becomes a true voice. Whatever 
may be the fate of this explanation, the result which we desire remains 
the same. We see, in effect, that in the motions of the wing there is, 
as it seems, only a single active period — that in which it is lowered, 
brought down ; the elevation takes place in consequence of the ehis- 
ticity of the pieces of the thorax strongly stretched by the contraction 
of the muscles which pull down the wing. At the same time that this 
tension is produced, the volume of the thorax is amplified and the incur- 
sion of air is the immediate result of this increase of capacity. The air 
must then enter and leave the trachete at each stroke, and the vibra- 
tions it produces (whether proceeding from the wing membrane or from 
the stigmati) correspond exactly to the movements of the wing. 

The acoustic phenomenon, if it is not the consequence of the vibra- 
tion of the wings, is at least synchronous with it. It can inform us, 
therefore, in all cases of the frequency of the strokes. When the buz- 
zing of an insect, flying with a uniform rapidity, is observed, we find that 
the pitch perceptibly does not remain the same ; when the insect ap- 
proaches the ear the pitch is elevated, and is lowered when the insect 
flies from us. Something analogous takes place when a tuning-fork in 
vibration is moved rapidly to and from the ear ; the sound becomes 
elevated and then low^ered, and the difference may attain a quarter or 
even half a tone. It is necessary, therefore, to take care that the in- 
sect experimented on should alv/ays be at the same distance from the 

* stigmati : the spiracles or openings iu the external integument of insects, through 
"which respiration is carried on. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 233 

observer. Tliis perturbatory phenomenon lias been perfectly explained 
as follows : Tlie vibrations, without doubt, are all produced at^qual in- 
tervals of time, and, therefore, when the instrument remains at the same 
distance from the ear, the same time elapses between the several im- 
pulses on the tymx)anum. But when the fork is made rapidly to ap- 
proach the ear the impulses are crowded together, and consequently the 
pitch rises ; when, on the contrary, the fork is rapidly removed from the 
ear the impulses are wider apart, and the sound deepens. Every one 
has remarked, in traveling by rail, that if a locomotive whistles while 
passing in an opposite direction, the sharpness of the sound increases 
as it approaches, and becomes deep when it has passed and is rapidly 
becoming more distant. 

II. The movements of the icing of insects. 

To arrive at a complete comprehension of the mechanism of flight of 
insects, I have said that we should, in the first place, resolve a certain 
number of i^ractical questions which should serve us as steps to reach a 
definite conclusion. I could preseDt you immediately with the final 
result of the experiments by which I have elucidated this subject for 
myself, and the theory which expresses them, but I prefer to proceed 
otherwise. I shall enter on an examination of the facts and into the 
details of the experiments, in order that my hearers may participate 
more completely in the studies which we pursue together, for I am per- 
suaded that there is as much profit in knowing how to arrive at a result 
as in knowing the result itself. 

1. We have begun to study the motions of the wings, and the first 
question which presents itself is the frequency of these motions. On 
this point direct observation is of little assistance ; the acoustic method, 
which consists in determining the frequency of the strokes of the wing 
by the pitch of the buzzing of the insect is more efficient, but we have 
seen that even the principle of this method has been contested, and that 
its application presents difficulties. The graphic method remains to be 
considered. This method consists in making the wings themselves 
record the strokes which they execute. When an insect is held in 
captivity by force which it cannot overcome, after trial it ceases 
a useless resistance ; it resigns itself and abstains from all efforts to 
escape, its wings remain immovable, and in this way the observer who 
hopes to study their motions finds himself disappointed. But there are 
different methods of awakening the insect to its original activity ; it 
is sometimes sufiicient to pinch the antenna3 lightly; this irritation of a 
very sensitive organ succeeds with the Macroglossa. Among the wasps^ 
the end may be attained by titillating the feet, or by holding them all 
together with a j)air of forceps, and then releasing them suddenly, except 
one, by which the animal is held. The captive supposes that it is at liberty, 
and makes an effort at flight which last about thirty seconds, or long 
enough to be observed. There is, however, another difiiculty. The captive 
insect, when willing, cannot fly like an insect at liberty, because the exter- 
nal conditions are not the same. It exj>eriences a greater resistance in 
proportion to the traction which it exerts upon the bond which holds it ^ 
to a free insect the relation is such as a boat held by an obstruction 
bears to one sailing freely, or as a horse which drags a load to one re- 
lieved from harness. This resistance modifies its behavior considerably, 
and obliges us to distinguish between the two difl'erent conditions of 
free flight and flight in captivity. It is indispensable to establish these 
distinctions, in order to apijreciate at their true value the results ta 



234 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

which we are conducted by the graphic as well as the other methods which, 
we may employ. 

The apparatus on which the wings record their motions is the ordi- 
nary registering apparatus, consisting of a metal cylinder covered with 
smoked paper, to which a uniform rate of motion is imparted by clock- 
work. Let ns suppose that, instead of the motions of the wings, we 
would simply register the oscillations of a vibrating rod. For this pur- 
pose the extremity of the rod is furnished with a little style which 
touches the blackened paper with its point, and, as the different parts 
of the movable cylinder pass successively before the point, the soot is 
detached from the jilaces which it touches and a trace produced. If the 
rod is not in vibration, it makes a long white rectilinear trace without 
sinuosities, a straight line which, rolled upon the cylinder, constitutes a 
circumference. If it is in vibrator}^ motion, its trajectory will be a 
curved line, of which the sinuosities indicate all the circumstances of 
the motion, its phases of elevation, it depressions — in a word, all its 
movements — and consequently all the oscillations which the vibrating 
rod executes in space will be faithfully reproduced on the paper. If 
we would ascertain the frequency of the oscillations, it is sufficient to 
know the rate at which the cylinder revolves. Ordinarily a tuning-fork 
is employed, of which the number of vibrations is previously known, as, 
for example, one hundred vibrations per second. This is made to write 
its vibrations upon the registering cylinder below the line traced by the 
vibrating rod, of which the number of A'ibrations are desired. The 
comparison of the two tracings shows at once the number of the motions 
of the tuning-fork back and forth ; that is to say, how many hundredths 
of a second correspond to one oscillation of the rod; the number of mo- 
tions of the vibrating body during a given time is thus known with 
^Tcat exactness. 

It is not, however, as easy to obtain the tracing from the wing of au 
insect as from a vibrating rod, and this for several reasons. In the first 
place it is very difficult to fix at the extremity of the wing a writing- 
style ; however light it may be, the rapidity of the motion to which it 
is submitted is sufficient in most cases co throw it off". If, however, 
after many trials and much precaution we are able to retain it in its 
place, a permanent cause of i^erturbation still exists from its very 
presence. Under the influence of this incumberance the extent and fre- 
quency of the strokes of the wing are evidently diminished. It is easy 
to convince ourselves of this by taking a Macroglossa and fixing it in the 
manner w^hich w^e have previously described ; that is, immovably between 
two strips of cork, by means of a pin. Looking down upon it we per- 
ceive the extreme limits traversed by the wing above and below which 
we have called the dead-points. If some substance is applied to the 
surface of the wing, we see by the effect of this burden, in diminishing 
the play of the organ, the two limits of oscillation approach one another, 
and the extreme upper position, which just now was almost vertical, in- 
clines toward the horizontal. We may finally remark that it is only at 
the cost of considerable chafing against the surface of the moving- 
cylinder that we can obtain a complete tracing of the movement of the 
wing. The wing cannot touch the cylinder except during a very short 
instant of its stroke ; that is, the instant when the wing reaches pre- 
cisely the distance from the body of the animal to the cylindrical sur- 
face. The sj)herical figure which the margin of the wing describes in 
space cannot have more than one i)oint in common with the blackened 
cylinder. We can, therefore, only obtain, as the w^hole impression, a 
series of points at more or less regular intervals ; and, if a more pro- 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 235 

longed contact is desired, it can only be by curving the wing and fold- 
ing it npon itself, and consequently the natural curve which the or- 
ganization of the insect obliges it to traverse will be falsified and 
altered. In any case the friction against the blackened surface will re- 
tard the motion, and although the retardation which it causes may be 
neglected when it is opposed to bodies of large size, such as a tuning- 
fork or a vibrating rod, it cannot be when the vibrating object is the 
delicate membrane which constitutes the wing of an insect. Again, the 
friction, although exceedingly small, is found fully comparable Avith the 
forces which come in play in the motion of the wing, and its interven- 
tion notably alters the action of the latter. Experiment has confirmed 
these views. In one case an insect executing the motions of flight, and 
rubbing its wings somewhat roughly against the paper, furnished 240 
movements per second ; by diminishing more and more the contact of 
the wing with the cylinder, there have been obtained 282, 305, and 321. 
If, therefore, we would have a faithful representation, it is necessary to 
renounce the idea of obtaining those beautiful, regular, and continuous 
lines which are i)roduced by the tuning-fork or vibrating rod, and content 
ourselves with interrupted lines, half-strokes represented by fragments, 
or even only isolated dots, the periodical return in these incomi)lete 
markings of definite forms permits us to infer the repetition of similar 
oscillations, and hence to determine their frequency. The operation is as 
follows : With a delicate jiair of forceps we hold the insect by the lower 
portion of its abdomen, in such a position that one of its wings at each 
movement shall lightly touch the blackened paper. Each of these touches 
takes off a portion of the soot which covers the paper, and, as the cylin- 
der turns, new points incessantly present themselves to the contact of 
the wing. A figure is thus obtained, formed of a series of points or 
short strokes of perfect regularity if the insect has been maintained in 
a fixed position. 

Fiff. 1. 



: VylAAA^AA^AA/'AAAA^^AAAAy^A/iAAAAA^AA'^AAA;^,AAAA^^AA/J\AJ\AAAA;ly'A/V^^ ' f .\l\" S'J\N\I\AI\N\rJ\N\r^Ar^ 



Showing the frequency of the win<^-strokes of a drone, (the three upper lines,) and 
of a bee, (the lower line.) The fourth line is produced by the vibration of a tuuiufj- 
fork, furnished with a style, which executes 250 double vibrations per second. 




Tracing produced by the wing of a drone rubbing a little more strongly on the paper 
than in the preceding figure. 

We have obtained a large number of these tracings in which the wing 
has only touched the surface of the registering cylinder, and has left 



236 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

oidy a poiut as a mark in eacli of its vibrations. I exhibit a number of 
these, and trust as soon as the return of sprinjj i)ermits us, to pro- 
cure insects to show you the experiments by which these tracings have 
been produced. Those which you are now examining have enabled me 
to determine the frequency of the strokes of the wings of the following 
insects : 

strokes 
per second. 

Common fly 330 

Humble-bee 240 

Honey-bee 190 

Wasp 110 

Sphinx moth, {Macroqlossa) 72 

Dragon fly, {Lihelhda) 28 

Cabbage butterfly 9 

Certain authors have estimated this number of vibrations by the 
acoustic method, but there is a notable discrepancy between the above 
figures and those which they have deduced from the pitch of the sound 
that these iusects produce in flyiug. In the case of the common fly, T. 
Lacordaire has computed the number of the vibrations of its wings at 
GOO i^er second, that is to say, twice as many as our figures exhibit. 
Has there not been a misunderstanding here, as is frequently the case, 
in the use of the word " vibration f Some persons wrongly consider 
the raising and depressing of the wing as two vibrations, and reserve 
the term of "simple vibrations" for one or the other of these isolated 
motions. On the contrary, if we follow the usage most generally 
adopted, the two motions together, by which the body is again in its 
original position, should be considered as a single vibration. 

The previous observations which we have made on free flight, and 
on flight under restraint, somewhat curtail the range which we are 
tempted to accord to these numbers. The animal, according as it desires 
to move with a greater or less rapidity, can change at will not only the 
extent of its wing-strokes, but also, to a certain extent, their frequency. 
Fatigue may exercise an analogous influence to that of the will ; after very 
rapid motions, the exhausted animal diminishes the number of its strokes, 
which sometioies falls to a fourth or a fifth of its normal value. It con- 
tinues to relax them more and more until a period of repose and repara- 
tion permits it to resume its usual flight ; nevertheless the examination 
of these numbers suggests some general considerations. We have 
reason to think that each of the muscular contractions which determine 
the drawing down of the wind is the result of a single impulse, [Zuckimg 
of the Germans,) although in man contraction is due to successive im- 
pulses which are merged in one another when they are produced more 
frequently than 30 times in a second. Among insects the limit of fusion 
of impulses is infinitely more remote, and ends with leaving the wing 
immovable in a sort of permanent tetanic contraction. It is easy to 
assure ourselves of this by means of living iusects, or better, by means 
of the artificial insect which I have constructed. When the impulses 
become too rapid, their extent diminishes; at this moment they no longer 
serve for the propulsion of the animal, whose wings appear quite immov- 
able or merely agitated by a light tremor. Nevertheless, the number of 
muscular waves which the fibers of insects will admit without inter- 
mingling, a number which in the fly amounts to 300 per second, forms a 
physiological fact, very interesting to note. Among other animals the 
limit is not so remote; among birds fusion is produced after 75 impulses ; 
among mammals after 30, and among reptilia after only 4. These dif- 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 237 

erences correspond, in virtue of the relations wliicli I Lave long since 
explained to yon, to analogous differences in the rapidity with wh:3li 
the elementary impulse traverses the muscular fiber of these different 
animals. The muscular fiber of the insect will then be characterized, 
physiologically, by the property which it possesses of furnishing a con- 
siderable number of distinct impulses, as well as it is anatomically 
characterized by its relative size and its striation. 

The graphic process which enables us to judge of the frequency of 
the strokes, also permits us to show the perfect synchronism of the play 
of the wings. For this purpose it is necessary to choose an insect 
of which the amplitude of the wing- vibrations is large, so that in their 
moment of greatest elevation they may nearly meet above the dorsal 
region of the animal. If the insect is placed near enough to the regis- 
tering cylinder, the dorsal region turned toward the blackened surface, 
it is clear that at the moment when the wings approach each other they 
will leave their traces on the paper, thus describing a series of loops and. 
curves, of which the perfect correspondence proves the synchronism of 
the motions from which they originate. 




Simultaneous tracings of the -wings of a wasp in short flight. The perfect syn- 
chronism of the twoAviugs will be observed. 

Furthermore, we can convince ourselves that a sort of necessary con- 
nection exists between the motions of the two wings. If we throw an 
insect violently upon the ground, so that it is stunned and can no longer 
execute voluntary motions, we observe that, by producing motions in 
one of the wings, the other follows, to a certain extent, the movements 
inflicted on its fellow. If one of the wings of an insect is depressed, the 
other also bends down ; if one be raised the other elevates itself. Cer- 
tain species, especially the wasp, lend, themselves very readily to this 
experiment. According to Chabrier, the author of an extensive work 
on the mechanism of the flight of insects, synchronism cannot fail to 
exist. This author considers the depression of the wing as the only 
effective portion of the stroke ; its elevation is a passive phenomenon due 
to the action of physical forces. In fact, after the depression each dor- 
sal arc of the thorax is deflected like a bent bow, and when the muscu- 
lar contraction ceases the bow springs back in virtue of its elasticity, 
and the wing is raised. Now, if the pressure did not act simultaneously 
on the two extremities of the bow it could not be flexed as it is, and. the 
mechanism which we suppose would be impossible. The reality of this 
synchronism is, then, a strong proof in favor of this manner of under- 
standing the motion of the wing. 

After having determined, in a general manner, the frequency of the 
vibrations of the wing, we seek to know the variation produced in the 
number of these vibrations by agents capable of influencing the activity 
of the animal. In the first rank of such agents must be placed heat and 
cold. We know that warm, dry weather is essential to insects, espe- 
cially coleoptera, to enable them to fly well ; special observation has 
confirmed this fact. We are able to state that, within certain limits, the 
frequency of the strokes is augmented with an increase of the tempera- 
ture, and that they become slower under a gradual increase of cold. 



238 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

II. — Form of the motions of the wings. 

After having studied the frequency of the vibrations of the wings, 
it is necessary to study their form. For the end which we desire to 
obtain — that is, to arrive at a theory of the flight of insects — the most 
important element to comprehend is that which we now proceed to in- 
vestigate, namely : The form of the trajectory which the wing describes 
ill space instead of the rapidity with which this trajectory is described. 
In order to arrive at this determination we shall have recourse to two 
processes which will reciprocally correct each other — the optic method 
and the ordinary graphic method. 

Optic determination of the movements of the icing. — When a brilliant 
body moves with rapidity it leaves upon the retina a kind of luminous 
train which acquaints us with the trajectory through which the body 
has passed. Children sometimes amuse themselves in producing the 
most varied figures by brandishing in the air a stick having one end on 
fire. It is on tliis principle that the apparatus known in physics under 
the name of Wheatsto7ie\s calidrophone is founded. This is a rod, fast- 
ened upright on a heavy foot, to which complex vibrations may be given, 
and to the ends of which a brilliant metallic bead has been aflBxed. If 
tbe rod is put into vibration the brilliant bead describes in space lumin- 
ous figures which vary with the different combinations of the vibratory 
motions. If a brilliant spangle can be attached to the extremity of the 
wing of an insect, this spangle, traversing without cessation the same 
points in space, leaves a continuous luminous figure, exempt from the 
imi^erfection which is caused by friction in the case of the graphic cyl- 
inder. Tbe extremity of an insect's wing can thus be rendered brilliant 
without mutilating it in any way ; it is sufficient to place upon it a drop 
of varnish, to which a small piece of gold-leaf is applied. The varnish 
dries so rapidly that the insect cannot throw off this little reflector of 
light, and nothing more is necessary than to hold the animal in a fixed 
position to observe the play of light upon the small brilliant surface. 
Under these conditions the bee and the wasp furnish a well-marked 
" figure of eight." 

Fitr. 4. 




Aspect of a wasp, the extremity of whose primary wings has been gilded. The animal 
is supposed to be placed in a ray of light. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 233 

The figures of eight are more or less widened or compressed according 
to circumstances. Sometimes the point of the wing seems to move 
almost in one plane. In the dragon lly (Libellida) a figure of eight is also 
observed, but much more elongated ; the loops are narrow and laterally 
compressed. "With the Macroglossa galium it sometimes seems as if the 
preceding form had disappeared, and is replaced by a sort of ellipse. 
However, in examining it closely it is soon perceived that this ellipse is 
surmounted by a little loop, very slightly developed, relatively to the 
curve which supports it. It seems that one of the loops is enlarged at 
the expense of the other, but this last has not entirely disappeared, and 
the vestige what remains testifies to the persistence of the figure of eight 
which is encountered in most other cases, and which may serve as the 
general type. 

Changes of the plane of the icing. — The luminous figure which the gilded 
wing of an insect gives in its motions also shows that, during the alter- 
nate motions of flight, the plane of the wing changes its position in 
relation to the axis of the body of the insect. During the period of 
elevation the upper face of the wing is directed backward, while it turns 
a little forward during its descent. In fact, if we gild a large extent of 
the upper face of the wing of a wasp, taking care that the gilding shall 
be limited to this face, it is seen that the insect, placed in a ray of 
light, gives the figure of eight with a very unequal intensity on the two 
sides of the image, as is seen in the preceding figure. It is evident that 
the cause of this phenomenon is found in a change of the i^lane of the 
wing, a change in consequence of which the angle of incidence of the 
solar rays, while lavorable during the ascent of the wing, is unfavorable 
during the descent. If the animal is turned so that the luminous figure 
is observed inversely, the figure of eight presents, in an inverse position, 
the striking inequality of its two halves, catching the light in a portion 
which was just before without it, and losing it where it had previously 
shone. We further find, in the employment of the graphic method, 
new proofs of the changes of plane in the wings of insects during flight. 
This change of i)lane is of great importance, for in this rests, as we 
shall see, the immediate cause of the propulsion of the body of the an- 
imal by the application of the motive force. 

Method of contact. — Does the extremity of the wing really describe 
this double loop which we perceive, or is this form the result of an opti- 
cal illusion — a play of light ? Though such an objection is hardly 
probable, it is necessary to refute it. To assure myself more entirely 
of the reality of the displacement of the wing than the optic method 
rendered perceptible, I have introduced, while the wing was in motion, 
the extremity of a little bodkin into the interior of the loops of the fig- 
ure of eight, and I have established that in the interior of these curves 
free spaces really exist, of a funnel shape, in which the bodkiu pene- 
trated without encountering the wing, while if I attempted to touch 
the intersection where the lines cross the wing immediately struck 
against the bodkin, and fight was interrupted. Still greater precision 
can be brought to bear on the appreciation of these motions, and, know- 
ing that the wing describes a double loop, it may also be known in what 
manner it transverses the branches. It is sufiQcient to bring near to 
the wing in motion a leaf of paper blackened on both sides; the wing, 
in pursuing its course, strikes against one of the sides of the paper, and 
the trace which it leaves testifies to the manner in which the motion is 
accomplished. 

Graphic method. — This method is not applicable to our problem with- 
out important modifications. We have just seen that it is difficult to 



240 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



obtain tracings of any extent, because the wing cannot remain long in 
contact with the blackened cylinder, which it leaves and approaches 
successively. Under these special conditions it is necessary to have 
resource to an artifice, and since it is impossible to obtain a satisfactory 
trace at a single stroke, we should try to divide the difficulty and sepa- 
rate the operation into several periods. The preceding experiments sim- 
plify the interpretation of the tracings very much, and we can recon- 
struct the figures which the optic method has indicated from the slender 
elements which they aftbrd. I have considered in the complete course of 
the wing of an insect, such as is represented in Fig. 4, three distinct 
zones, of which 1 have obtained the tracings separately; an inferior 
zone, corresponding to the lower i^ortion of the figure of eight, a median 
zone, and a superior zone corresponding to the middle and upper parts 
of this figure. Bringing together the tracings obtained in these three 
zones I have been able to reconstruct the entire curve. In registering 
the tracings of the median zone, figures much resembling each other 
are obtained, presenting the two crossed lines shown in Fig. 5. 

Fig. 5. 




Trace of the median course of the wing of the Macroglossa galium, (Bedstraw sphynx- 

moth.) 

The multiple tracings of the figure are formed by the fringed extrem- 
ity of the wing, which presents many small points. The upper portion 
is' in the form of a loop, as well as the part which corresponds to the 
lower course of the wing, and these three parts successively obtained 
give, when united together, the complete representation of a figure of 
eight, such as is obtained in acoustics in registering by Kcenig's method 
the vibrations of a Wheatstone's octave rod ; that is, a rod which vi- 
brates twice transversely for each longitudinal vibration. The slower 
motion of the cylinder produces the condensation of the end of the 
tracing. 

Fiff. G. 




Trace of a Wheatstone's octave rod. 

The experiments can also be varied by obtaining, not the tracing of 
the point of the wing, but that of the anterior border of this membrane, 
striking laterally against the cylinder. It is clear that in describing the 
upper loop, this edge will approach the cylinder, then deviating ; in a 
similar manner it will descrilje the lower loop, so that in its complete 
course it will rub twice against the blackened surface, and leave two 
white traces sejiarated by an interval. This is observed in Fig. 7. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 2-11 
Fijr. 7. 




This figure shows from the tracing of the wing of a wasp the upper 
loop and tlie whole extent of one of the branches of the figure of eight. 
The median portion of this branch is only dotted on account of the 
feeble friction of the wing. We may, therefore, be permitted to con- 
clude that if the trace of an insect's wing could be obtained entire at 
one operation, the same figure would be presented which we have seen 
described in space by the gilded spot on the wing of the wasp, namely, 
a figure of eight, which our ingenious acoustician, Koenig, was the first 
to obtain with a spiral Wheatstone's rod, making two horizontal to one 
vertical oscillation. 

It now appears to me sufficiently established that in the more ex- 
tended motions of flight the wings of insects describe a figure of eight 
in space. Furthermore, that the luminous figure which a speck of gold 
on a wing i^resents in its motions has shown us that the periods of 
nscent and descent of the wing are accompanied by a change of plane 
in that organ. It is this fact which will shortly enable us to exi)lain the 
mechanism of flight in insects. 

III. — Mechanism of the flight of insects — how they peopel 

THEMSELVES. 

The preceding lessons have been devoted to the study of the frequency 
and the form of the strokes of the wings of insects. You have seen 
that the frequency varied in diftercnt species, and in passing from the 
butterfly, for example, to the house fly, or the gnat, the variations may be 
considerable. The flight of the butterfly is slow, the strokes of its wings 
succeed each other at considerable intervals, propelling it by bounds 
and jerks, and producing an irregular and capricious flight. The gnat 
darts with rapidity straight at its object, emitting along its path a clear, 
sharp, strident sound. Between these two extremes we find all inter- 
mediate stages. Furthermore, the same insect, under different condi- 
tions, varies the rapidity of its motions within extensive limits ; when 
free from all restraint its movements are rapid and precipitous, but 
when captured they are immediately relaxed, and although the fre- 
quency of the movements of the wing varies, the form of the motion 
does not change. It is in all cases the same, always a double loop, a 
figure of eight. Whether this figure be more or less apparent, whether 
its branches be more or less equal, matters little ', it exists, and an 
attentive examination does not fail to reveal it. 

Before drawing from this fact the conclusions which it warrants ; before 
extracting from it the solution of the problem with which we are occu- 
pied — that is to say, the mechanism of flight — let us rapidly review the 
history of the question, and see how far previous authors have advanced 
in its solution. Without going further back, we find in the work of 
Borelli a chapter devoted to this subject, in which he considers the force 
which the bird or insect must employ to sustain or move itself in space. 
IG s 



242 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

He estimates that this force is euormous ; that it is, in the case of the bird, 
more than ten thonsand times greater than the weight of its body. We still 
find this exaggeration in recent -svorks. The academician Navier, falls 
into an analogous error, and after him M. Babiuet accords, in his turn, 
a power to the inhabitants of the air far superior to that with which 
they are gifted by nature. However, by the side of these errors we find 
a great number of correct ideas, since confirmed by observation. Borelli 
knew that the principal motion of the wings was an elevation and depres- 
sion, executed in a vertical plane, and he asked himself how it was pos- 
sible that this motion, which, it seemed to him, could only serve to ele- 
vate the animal or to depress it, should nevertheless contribute to onward 
motion. For this, it was necessary that the vertical force should be 
changed into a horizontal force. Examples of this transformation are 
frequent. If a wind blowing horizontally strikes against a flat board 
inclined forward at an angle of, say, forty-five degrees with the horizon, 
the action of the wind will tend to throw it backward and upward ; or, 
if the board is moving forward with a momentnm, it will tend to elevate 
it. We have here an illusLratiou of a well-known principle of mechanics 
— the resolntion of a single force by an inclined plane into two forces — 
which gives in part an explanation of the flight of insects and of water 
birds. But insects have four wings instead of two. Is the olfice of these 
four organs the same ; and if not, in what do theydifter? Borelli does 
not treat of this question. It it discussed, however, in a particular 
case, by an anonymous author, who has left us an interesting manu- 
script on the habits of bees. This work, intended to complete and to 
correct the work of Eeaumur, came from the Condaraine Library, and 
belongs to M. Harnet. The author has observed bees at the moment 
when they hum at the mouth of the hive, trying to enter it and deposit 
their treasure. In examining the play of light on their trembling wings, 
he thinks that he saw the upper pair alone alternately raised and 
depressed, while the lower pair were animated only with a feeble hori- 
zontal motion. Here the question seems to have been abandoned, 
although the interest with which it is now regarded is far from iucon- 
siderable. Beside the interest which it oflers from the purely scientific 
point of view, in the mechanism of a function as widely employed as 
aerial locomotion, still another interest is attached to this study. The 
insect and the bird realize one of the oldest and most unsuccessful aspi- 
rations of the ambition of man. All space belongs to them; they go and 
come in the aerial ocean, while he is chained by his weight to the earth. 
Man has sought by various methods to escape from this confinement. 
The knowledge of the processes by which nature attains the end to 
which he aspires, woidd perhaps have spared him many fruitless attempts 
and loss of much time and great waste of invention. In 1823 a work 
appeared in which this question of aerial locomotion is treated exprofesso, 
and no longer in an incidental manner. The author, the Chevalier de 
Chabrier, studied the conditions of mobility of the wing, and arrived at 
the solution of an important question : how muscular action is trans- 
mitted to this movable organ. Is it directly, or by some intervention? 
The muscle, responds Chabrier, is not directly attached to the wing; it 
acts upon the arch of the back. When it contracts, the curvature of this 
arch is augmented; when it relaxes, the back returns to its original 
curve, like an unbent bow. In the motion of the wing, therefore, there 
is only one active period, the moment of depression; the period of ele- 
vation is passive. Elasticity, therefore, plays an important part in this 
function. Here, as in all mechanical organs, it absorbs and then gives 
out power; it regulates speed and produces continuity of motion. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 243 

But Cbabrier was soou carried away by au exaggeration similar to 
tliat of Borelli and of Xavier, tliongli in a contrary direction. Accord- 
ing to him, an insect needed au insignificant force for its propulsion iu 
space. No eftbrt was necessary to sustain it in the atmosphere; the ani- 
mal floated there like an inflated balloon. In order to fly, it filled its 
multitude of respiratory canals with air, and this, becoming heated, raised 
the animal as it elevates a hot-air balloon. It is not necessary to say 
that this conception of au aerostatic insect is au error. Without doubt 
au insect, before attemptiug a flight, lays in a quantity of air by a sud- 
den respiration, but this provisiou of air contributes only an insignifi- 
cant part toward the end which Chabrier assigned it. 

The greater portion serves to prepare the organs of flight for the opera- 
tion of their function. Jurine, of Geneva, in particular has shown that 
the nervures of the wing membranes are small tubes, which only acquire 
the rigidity aud extension necessary to flight by inflation with air. We 
must refer to another contemporary, Strauss Durckeim, to find the ele- 
ments of the theory to which juy observations have conducted me. In 
his book on the Theology of Nature, a vast chaos of iugenious ideas, iu 
which some profound, among many puerile, thoughts are to be found, there 
are many tacts essential to the solution of our problem. Strauss 
Durckeim has conceived the ideal type of the insect-wing, the diagram- 
matic wing; that is to say, has reduced the organ to its essential parts. 
It consists of a rigid nervation or frame-work in front, a flexible web 
behind; this is all the apparatus. An apparatus thus constituted pos- 
sesses the essential requisites for flight; otherwise constituted it will not 
serve this purpose, as is the case with the false- wing of the Phryganidcc, 
which has its principal nervation behind. It is enough that such a 
structure should be made to rise and fall successively ; the forward 
border being ridged and the other flexible, it naturally disposes itself iu 
an inclined position, receiving the reaction of the air obliquely, and 
thus transforms a part of the vertical impulse into a horizontal force. 
The two parts of the wing above mentioned are both indispensable in 
the same degree their respective offices comjilement each other in pro- 
ducing a single result. Ingenious experiments, due to M. Girard, throw 
light upon these facts. Destroy the anterior nervation, without remov- 
ing the thin membrane, and the insect cannot fly ; destroy the flexibility 
of the membrane by covering it with gum, and flight also becomes im- 
possible. Here we cannot urge the objection that the superincumbent 
matter interferes by its weight like a burden which weighs down the 
animal; for, following out the experiment, we see that as soon as the 
coating becomes dry, small fissures are produced, flexibility reappears, 
aud with it the possibility of flight returns. These observations assist 
us in comprehending the part which the anterior portion of the wings 
of the Phryganidw play; which constitute the analogue of the stiif 
nervure, while the hinder wings represent the flexible membrane. The 
two wings of au insect thus complement each other. 

I shall not further prolong this retrospect. I have limited it to the 
essential ideas entertained by our predecessors, aud to those which will 
serve us iu the future. The preceding experiments, joined to those 
which you have seen performed under your own eyes, seem to me to 
establish the following facts, namely: The motions executed by an 
insect during flight are limited to an elevation and a depression of the 
wings. It is true that other motions take place in the wings of insects. 
They are seen to move backward, and in repose to extend parallel to 
the axis of the body. We also see insects moviug their wings backward 
aud forward iu preparatiou for flight. But these motions are not directly 



244 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

conuectecl witli aerial locomotion. The dragon-fly, {Libellula,) wliicli pro- 
pels itself so rapidly, exhibits none of these lateral movements; its wings 
move exclusively in a vertical i)laue, as if they turned on a hinge, lint 
we have seen, in the optic method, that the course of the wing in 
space can be followed by gilding its extremity, and placing it in a ray 
of sunlight. Now this arrangement furnishes us with a figure of eight, 
and we furtlier know that during each complete vibration the wing- 
changes its inclination twice. These movements are not controlled di- 
rectly by the muscles. They are the mechanical effects of the resistance 
of the air acting alternately on the u])per and lower surfaces of the 
wing in its alternate movements. When the wing leaves the ujtper 
limit of its position, it inclines neither to one side nor to tbe other, its 
plane being parallel to the length of the animal. But when the impulse 
of the air is exercised, or as soon as the wing begins to be depressed, 
the rigid portion, the anterior nervation resists flexure, while the flex- 
ible membrane which follows it gives way; drawn down by tbe nerva- 
tion which lowers it, elevated by the air wiiich uplifts it, this membrane 
takes an intermediate position ; it inclines about 45°, more or less, accord- 
ing to circumstances. The wing continues its downward motion thus 
inclined toward the horizon. Thus the reaction of the air, which com- 
bines its effect and acts perpendicularly u])onthe surface which it strikes, 
can be decomposed into two forces, a vertical and a horizontal force; one 
serving to elevate, and the second to propel the animal. After this 
flrst period the wing membrane will have arrived at the end of its 
course; the direction of its motion is changed, its action is reversed. 
A moment of repose, infinitely short, separates these two ])hases, during 
which the wing resumes its normal position parallel to the axis of the 
body. The nervure draws it up again, the air resists as before, and 
from this conflict results a position between the horizontal and the ver- 
tical — an inclination of 45°. This second period contributes as did the 
first, to locomotion. How remarkable is the simplicity of apparatus by 
which the desired end is attained ! 

The horizontal force which is generated by the inclination of the plane 
of the wing is transmitted to the body of the animal and helps to push 
it forward. But as the body of the insect does not instantaneously take 
up the motion which is imparted to it, a part of this force is expended 
in curving the nervure of the wing which, at the same time that it is 
lowered, is pushed forward. Here is an artificial wing of large size con- 
structed in accordance with the type M'hich we have described ; an an- 
terior nervation represented by a stiff rod, with a membrane behind 
formed of paper pasted npou its edge. Try to strike down an object 
immediately before you, and you will not succeed. If you strike at an 
object before you with a downward blow the wing will be resisted by the 
air, and it will deviate greatly from the point at which you are aim- 
ing. From this deviating motion of the wing from the change of plane 
which it effects, the looped figure which it describes evidently results. 
It is the combination of these motions which generates the figure of 
eight previously described. We can now safely say that the two exper- 
imental facts are now interpreted by our theory. 

A very slight difference has been observed between the two sides of 
the wing in certain insects; the lower surface is less polished than the 
upper; it is furnished with rugosities, hairs, or points, which, according to 
Chabrier, give more hold on the air and reduce the loss of force by slid- 
ing. This disposition may contribute to insure the predominance of the 
useful effect of the lowering over the elevating motion. Furthermore, 
this predominance of the depressing action of the wing does not exist 



J>HENOMENA <0F PLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



245 



iu all insects. These find tliat force as well in the period of elevation of 
the wing as in the period of its depression, tnrning almost horizontally 
the plane in which their wings move. The nnmerons varieties which 
the mechanism of flight presents among the species of insects which we 
have observed will be stiidied later; they do not conflict with the funda- 
mental principles which I have just announced. 

The mechanical conditions which we have just passed in review I have 
realized iu a theoretical apparatus, from which I have obtained the same 
results as afforded by living insects. This artificial insect is represented 
by Fig. 8. 



tc 




« 



246 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

An air-pump, moved by a rotary apparatus, alternately comppesses 
and relaxes the air in a tube which traverses the central pivot of tbe 
ajiparatus, wliere a sort of mercurial gasometer lieruietically seals it 
■while permitting the free rotation of the arms. The horizontal branch 
is hollow, and conducts the air into the apparatus, which is' closed by a 
liollow metallic drum, of which the two circular faces are closed by two 
sheets of rubber. By the i)lay of the air-pump these two sheets are 
inflated or contracted both together. They comnuinicate the rapid mo- 
tions of elevation or depression to the wings by two angular levers. 
The wings, presenting, like those of an insect, conditions of unequal 
flexibility, decompose the resistance of the air, and impart to the appara- 
tus a rapid rotary motion around the central pivot. 

Imagine two artificial wings, as nearly alike as possible, both inserted 
on one of these little drums, which I liave frequently described. They 
receive through this drum absolutely synchronous motions of eleva- 
tion and depression. This apparatus is fixed at the extremity of an arm 
balanced by a counterpoise, and turning u^^on a pivot. This arm is 
hollow, furnishing a canal by which the effect of inflation can be trans- 
mitted to the movable drum of the wings. ^Ye may consider the drum 
as representing the body of the insect, and nothing prevents us from 
really giving it the shape of this animal. The rigid nervures, furnished 
with flexible membranes disposed to the right and left, will be the two 
"wings, and the animal, instead of being free, will be fixed at the extrem- 
ity of a movable rod ; there is, therefore, only a single motion possible, 
which is that of turning around the pivot, carrying the attached rod with 
it. In efl'ect, if I put the air-pump in motion, the artificial insect moves, 
flaps its wings, and really flies. At each stroke there is a change of 
plane of the alar membrane; at each stroke the point of the wing de- 
scribes a figure of eight; and in a general way this theoretical animal, 
this artificial insect, rej^roduces all the particulars which the observation 
of real insects has revealed to us. 

This apparatus aftbrds many other advantages besides those of veri- 
fying theoretic ideas. It enables us to make new experiments, to which 
living beings will not lend themselves. AVe can change one of the con- 
ditions, for example the form of the wings, their extent or the rapidity 
of the stroke, or any other of the circumstances, while all the others 
remain constant; we may thus discover the influence which each of them 
singly may have on the mechanism of flight. It is by such experiments 
that we can assure ourselves of the following fact. In the course tra- 
versetl by the wing there is only one region useful in the propulsion 
of the insect; that is the median region. In the two extreme portions 
the wing has not experienced that change of plane which renders its 
action effective. Thus we see if we diminish the extent of the motions 
of the wing, the tractile power produced b}' the apparatus diminishes 
considerably, and finally ceases altogether. If the membrane of the 
wing is too broad, another phenomenon results. The hinder edge of the 
wing remains almost immovable in space, especially during motions of 
small amplitude ; the nerxnire only is animated with rapid motion. The 
air, therefore, is struck by planes inclined inversely to those v\'hich act 
upon it in normal flight, so that the apparatus retrogrades and turns 
around its pivot in a direction contrary to its usual motion. 

Experimental flight also shows the adaptation of certain forms of 
■wings to obtain the most rapid translation of motive force. These are 
precisely the forms which we find in nature. The nervure of insects 
does not carry the wing membrane back to its point of insertion. Those 
parts near the articulation have little vitality ; they contribute very little 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 247 

toward a useful result, embarrassing the ueigbboriug parts, witliout com- 
pensation of any kind. The membrane should not exist except when 
vitality itself exists in a corresponding degree. Finally, the extent which 
the alar membrane should have, to best utilize the disposable force, can 
be determined experimentally. M. de Lucy has compared, in the case 
of a certain number of animals, the surfaces of the wings to the total 
weight of the body. He finds an extent of 30 square millimeters in a 
gnat weighing 3 milligrams: 1,003 square millimeters in a butterfly 
weighing twenty centigrams; 750 square centimeters in a pigeon weigh- 
ing 290 grams ; 4,500 square centimeters in a stork weighing li,205 grams; 
8,543 square centimeters in an Australian crane, weighing 9,500 grams. 
But to facilitate the comparison it is necessary to reduce these figures 
to a common measui"e ; and, in spite of the barbarous xthrases to vrhich 
they lead us, we obtain : 

Srxnarc meters. 

The kilogram of the gnat represents 10. 

The kilogram of the butterfly represents 8. 

The kilogram of the pigeon represents 2, 580 

The kilogram of the stork represents 1. 988 

The kilogram of the Australian crane represents 0. 899 

The extent of the wings, therefore, is not proportionate to the size 
of the animal. A wing being given, a maximum rapidity of stroke cor- 
responds to it. To augment the rapidity of the stroke, in hope of indef- 
initely accelerating the rate of flight, would be illusory ; it is possible 
to accelerate it up to a certain point, but beyond this maximum limit 
additions become useless. Increasing progressively the action of the 
air-pump, the strokes of the wings are more rapid, and at first the rapidity 
of flight will be augmented. Continue the increase, and the rate of flight 
diminishes. The amplitude of the motion also experiences a consider- 
able reduction, so that at the limit the wings appear motionless, or 
animated only by a slight quivering. Passing this extreme limit, the 
api)aratus retrogrades. A given wing then corresponds to a fixed rate of 
progressive strokes; for, by the effect of inertia, the frequency of the 
strokes is increased oul^- at the expense of their extent, and, when the 
extent diminished, the propelling force diminishes with it. I leave to 
yourselves the task of explaining these facts, which are the simple con- 
sequences of the principles I have previously explained. 1 also leave to 
you the comparison of the mode of progression of insects with theotlier 
modes which are seen in other animals or in various mechanical contriv- 
ances. You will discover almost everywhere the mechanism of the 
revolution of forces on the principle of the inclined plane. You will find 
it in the niotiou of the tail of a fish, the principal organ of its locomo- 
tion ; in the sculling motion of a waterman's oar, and even in the screw 
of a steam ]3ropeller. 

lY. Flight of bieds. 

By the simple inspection of a bird's wing it is easily seen tliat its 
mechanism for flight is not the same as that of an insect. Let the 
manner in which the feathers of birds are laid, one over another, be 
observed, and it will be evident that the air resists the motion of the 
wing only from below, so that in an inverse direction it finds an easy 
passage between the long beards of the feathers, which, in this motion, 
are no longer pressed together. This well-known arrangement, the 
effect of which Precblt* has clearly pointed out, has led to tlie belief 

* Uutcrsuchungeu liber deu Flug der Vogel. 8vo. YiouDa, 184G. 



248 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

tliat to sustain tlie bird against gTavitation the wing needs only to 
oscillate in a vertical plane, in consequence of the predominance of the 
resistance of the air acting from below over that acting conversely. 

Before discussing the value of this hypothesis, it is necessary to 
ascertain whether the wing of a bird really oscillates only in a vertical 
plane. We thus find presented to us, as at the beginning of our studies 
on the flight of insects, questions which experiment alone can answer. 
The problem nevertheless presents itself here under definite conditions. 
From its much larger body than that of the insect, and from our better 
knowledge of its anatomical conformation, the bird offers to us the 
means of study and experiment of another description. I shall exhibit, 
as far as possible, the nature of the muscular force of the bird, and the 
influence which tlie particular arrangement of its muscles and the form 
of its wings exerts upon flight. The methods of myography renders 
the analysis of the diflereut forms of motion produced by wings so easy 
that it has been of great assistance in these researches. 

Comparative anatomy exhibits the analogue of the anterior limbs of 
mammals in the bird's wing. Keduced to its skeleton the wing presents, 
like the human arm, the humerus, the two bones of the fore-arm, and a 
rudimentary hand in which the metacarpals and phalanges are to be 
found. The muscles also ofier numerous analogies with those of the 
anterior limbs of man. Among others, some have such an analogy of 
aspect and function that they can be designated by the same names. 
In short, in the case of birds, the muscles which attain the greatest 
development are those which act in extending or flexing the hand on 
the fore-arm, the fore-arm on the humerus, and, finally, of moving the 
humerus, that is to say, the whole arm upon the articulation of the 
shoulder. 

Among most birds, especially of the large kinds, the wing appears to 
remain always extended during flight. So that the extensor muscles of 
the diflereut parts of the wing serve to give that organ the posture 
necessary for flight, and to maintain it in that position, while the motive 
work is executed by other and much stronger muscles than the pre- 
ceding, viz, the pectorals. All the anterior portion of the thorax of 
birds is occuj^ied by powerful masses of muscle, and above all by a gTeat 
muscle which, from its being attached to the sternum, the sides, and 
the humerus, is evidently the analogue of the great pectoral muscle of 
man and other mammalia. Its ofdce is clearly to draw down the wing- 
quickly and strongly, and to take sufficient hold on the air to sustain as 
well as to move the vrhole body of the bird. The middle pectoral is 
found below the great pectoral; without an analogue in other kinds of 
animals, this muscle serves to raise up the wing. Lastly, the small 
pectoral passes externally from the sternum to the humerus ; it is an 
accessory of the great pectoral. It is well known that the strength of a 
muscle is in proportion to its volume, and as the pectoral muscles of a 
bird are about one-sixth of its total weight, we readily comprehend 
that it is upon these poMcrful organs that the principal duty in the act 
of flight devolves. Borelli endeavored to deduce from the volume of 
these muscles the force which the bird employs in flying, and concluded 
that this equals 10,000 times the weight of the body. 1 will not stop to 
refute the error of Borelli, which so many others have called in ques- 
tion, while they endeavored to substitute for the figures of the Italian 
physiologist estimates which will scarcely be more easy to prove. 
The great discrepancy which exists between the diflereut estimates of the 
muscular power of birds shows that the attempts at measurement were 
l^re mature. If we would make a true estimate to-day of the x)ower 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 249 

exerted by birds during flight, it would be necessary in the first place 
to demand from physiological experimentation all the facts of the prob- 
lem. The estimate in question presupposes an acquaintance with the 
motions of the wings, with their form, their extent, and their rapidity 
at each instant ; it also supposes a knowledge of the extent of the 
surface of the wings, their curve, and the angle at which they strike 
the air. This problem, then, will iierhaps be the last which we can 
hope to solve; but we can study at present, from other points of view, 
the strength of the muscles of the bird, and estimate some of the char- 
acteristics with which it is manifested. 

A measure of the maximum effort which the muscles of birds can de- 
velop can already be obtained experimentally. This measure may indeed 
fail to correspond with the efforts developed in flight, but it may prevent 
us from falling into the exaggeration which would attribute to the mus- 
cles of the bird a force superior to the maximum effort o£ which they 
are capable. 

Of the static force of the mnscles of birds. — In physiology the static force 
developed by a muscle is measiired by seeking the maximum weight 
which this muscle can raise. This determination has been made bj- 
Weber,* on the muscles of the frog; by Henke and Kuortz,t and since 
by Koster,! on the muscles of man. The maximum weight in these ex- 
periments was about one kilogram i^er square centimeter of muscular 
section, according to "Weber; of five to Henke and Kuortz; of seven, ac- 
cording to Koster. If the estimates of Borelli, and even those of Xavier, 
were correct, we ought to find in the muscles of birds a much more 
considerable static force. On the contrary, it does not appear to me 
that this force surpnsses that of the muscles of the mammalia. I have 
already shown that the weight of one kilogram, placed on the wing of 
a pigeon at the articulation of the arm with the fore-arm, cannot be 
raised by the voluntary efforts of the animal ; also, in certain experi- 
ments in which we hold a bird immovable, an excellent means of testing 
the weight consists in putting the bird on its back, the wings extended, 
and attaching to each wing a bag containing a kilogram of shot. 

I wished, however, to have a more precise measure of the strength of 
the p«?ctoral muscles. For this purpose a hoodwinked harrier was 
placed on its back in the position just described. The application of the 
hood plunges these animals into a sort of trance, during which all sorts 
of operations can be performed on them without their betraying anj^ 
unpleasant sensation, except by reflex movements. I denuded the great 
pectoral and the humeral region, tied the artery, and disarticulated the 
first joint, removing the remainder of the wing. I then fixed a cord tc 
the extremity of the humerus, and at the end of this cord the basin of 
a balance, into which shot was poured. The body of the bird being 
perfectly motionless I excited the muscle by inducing interrupted cur- 
rents of electricity, and while artificial tetanus was produced, an assist- 
ant added more shot, until the force of contraction of the muscle was sur- 
mounted. At this moment the weight supported was 2 kilograms, 380 
grams. Now, the arm of the lever at the end of which this weight had 
been placed was of the same length as the humerus, that is, about 9 cen- 
timeters, the measurement being the length between the attachment of 
the cord and the center of motion of the liumeral articulation. The arm 
to which the power is applied is evidently much shorter, and is more 
difii(!ult to measure. In the first place, the attachment of the great 

* Wagner's Handworterbucli der Pliysiologie. 

t Die grosse der absoluteu rausskelkraft in Heule and Pfcufer, t. xxiv. 

t Aichives netiiLandaises, 1866, ]). 11. 



250 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

pectoral muscle extends about 3 centimeters in its longest direction. If 
we supposed tlie muscular force applied to the middle of this line of 
attachment, the leverage of the power would he about 17 millimeters. 
The weight lifted and the muscular exertion, both multiplied l)y their 
respective leverage, are equivalent to each other. It follows that the 
real value of the power of the bird is ~^^^ ; which gives 12^^.000 for 
the entire force of the great pectoral muscle. Dividing this number by 
9 '^ 1, 7, Avhich represents the surface of the section of the muscle, Ave 
obtain for each bundle of muscle of the bird, having one square centi- 
meter of sectional surface, a power of 1,298 grams. 

The snuill result which I have obtained may be affected with certain 
causes of error. In the first place, I had not cut the tendon of the 
middle pectoral muscle which elevates the wing. It may therefore be 
objected that, as the electric currents have radiated throughout tlie 
deeper regions of the thoracic nuiscles, and have excited the elevator 
muscle of the wing of which the action is antagonistic to that of the 
great pectoral, that is to say, acting in the same direction as the weight, 
has sensibly diminished the force necessary to neutralize the power of 
the former muscle. It may also be said that the electric agent cannot 
produce as powerful an effort in the muscle as that evoked by the will. 
Admitting that these objections are all well founded, let us double, or 
even quadruple the force which I have assigned to the muscle, and still 
we shall not equal the result that Koster attributes to the specific force 
of the muscle of man. Thus, in spite of the want of precision in the 
experiments which I have made, I believe the proofs can be found in 
them that there does not exist in the muscles of birds a notably greater 
power than that found in those of other animals. 

One of the most striking peculiarities of the action of the muscles of 
birds is the extreme rapidity with which in them is evolved force. Of the 
different kinds of animals of which I have determined the character of 
their muscular action, the birds have exhibited the most rapid move- 
ments. The curve of motion which a muscle produces can be registered 
by myography, and thus the duration of its contraction and relaxation 
can be estimated. If we make use of electricity or any instantaneous 
motor, on the nerve of a muscle, or on the muscle itself, a motion is 
evoked of which the duration varies according to the species of animal 
experimented upon. This motion, which I have called the mnscuJar 
shoeJc, to distinguish it from the prolonged contraction which takes place 
under other circumstances, lasts in the muscles of the tortoise a second 
or more ; in man it lasts at least six or eight hundredths of a second, 
and in birds it endures about four-hundredths of a second. This rapidity 
is an indispensable condition of flight. In fact, the descending wing 
can only olDtain sufficient hold on the air by moving with great speed. 
The resistance of the air to a plane surface pressing upon it sensibly 
increases as the square of the velocity with which the plane descends. 
To have powerful muscles would be of no use to the bird if they acted 
slowly ; their force would be wasted for want of resistance, and no 
results would be produced. It is otherwise with terrestrial animals 
which run or gallop over the ground; they definitely utilize their mus- 
cular force in work by reason of the great resistance which they en- 
counter. Eapid motion is necessary even to fishes ; the water in which 
they exist resists in proportion to the rapidity with which it is struck by 
the tail and fins. If the muscular action is quick in the case of fishes, 
it must be much quicker in that of birds, which move in a much more 
rarefied medium. To explain the i)roduction of such rapid motion as 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 251 

tliat exhibited in the motion of birds, it must be admitted tliat the 
chemical action which takes phice in the substance of the muscle, and 
■svhich generates heat and motion as in a machine, is produced more 
rapidly in the muscles of birds than in tliose of any other class of 
animals. I nuist be permitted here to insist on the consideration of the 
molecular phenomena of which the nniscles are the seat, since we shall 
thus obtain more light upon our subject. Exteudirig to organized beings 
the principle of the conservation of forces as v.ell as the identity of 
power and heat, modern physiologists admit that a combustion takes 
place in the muscles as in the furnace of steam-engines. This combus- 
tion or chemical reaction liberates the forces vrhieh the separate atoms 
contain, and renders them evident under two forms, heat and mechanical 
energy, which are in one sense the complements of each other. When- 
ever a muscle contracts Avitliout raising a weight or otherwise expending 
power, it becomes sensibly heated. If it raises a weight, or otherwise 
expends ]w\ver, it exhibits less hctit, and this loss of heat, if it could be 
measured, would correspond to the mechanical equivalent of the work it 
has performed. It is true that we cannot estimate exactly the heat that 
a living muscle disengages during contraction, for the circulation of the 
blood carries off to ditferent ])arts of the bod}- more or less of the heat 
generated. xVll the ex])eriments of Beclard, Heidenhain, Hien, and 
others, tend to prove that the production of heat diminishes in propor- 
tion to the increase of power expended in work. This is enough to 
authorize the application of the principle of the conservation of forces to 
physiology, a principle, moreover, thoroughly justified by human reason. 
Two methods may be adopted in explaining the production of power 
from the chemical action which takes place in the muscles. Either the 
chemical action which we have called combustion liberates force sim- 
ultaneously in the two forms of heat and power, or, as in the steam- 
engine, heat is first produced to be afterward partially converted into 
power. Certain facts render this last hypothesis extremely probable. 
We can detect, in some cases, in a muscle, the transformation of heat 
into power. The phenomena are manifested in the following manner : 
When the muscle of a frog is detached and movements are excited in it 
by electricity, submitting- it, meanwhile, to a gradual increase of tem- 
perature, it is seen that the amplitude of the movements produced 
decrease up to a certain point, and that an instant arrives when the 
muscle will not react at all. This loss of muscular irritabibty is produced 
at about 33=^ Centigrade. If the muscle is gradually cooled it is seen to 
resume its irritability. What has taken place! If the motions of the 
gradually heated nuiscle be carefully registered side by side with o- 
number of shocks, it is seen that the decrease of their amplitude is due 
to the fact that the muscle when heated does not return to its normal 
length after contraction. The minima of the curves are gradually in- 
creased, showing that the weight lifted by each shock does not descend 
again completely. The power exhibited during the contraction of the 
muscle is not entirely expended by the time the incomplete relaxation 
follows, and a certain amount of reserved power remains, of which the 
cause seems to be the permeation of the muscle by heat. xVnd M'heu the 
muscle, heated above S'S^, becomes inert, it is because it has obtained 
through the action of heat all the contraction of which it is susceptible, 
that is, it has expended all the power of which it is capable. Figure 9 
shows the different phases of this phenomenon. 

While the muscle is cooling a contrary result is produced, namely, 
the subtraction of an amount of heat equivalent to an amount of power 
expended, that is to say, a relaxation of the muscle and a descent of the 



252 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



weight which it had raised. India-rubber possesses properties very 
analogous to those of muscular tissue, in regard to the transformation 
of heat into power. Take a strip or cord of non- vulcanized rubber and 
attach to it a weight. It stretches, a negative power is developed, and 

Fig. 9. 




Shomng the effect of heat on mnsciilar contraction. (Tlio figure should he read from 
riglit to left.) The first trace caused by the shock is quite high. The second is not 
so high, but this is partly due to the point from which the tracing starts, being more 
clovatetl, as "vrell as the horizontal lino from which the mark of the shock extends. 
This elevation of the point of departure proves that the muscle was in a state of con- 
traction from the influence of heat. The same effect is more and more evident up to the 
fifth tracing, when the muscle is cooknl, and in its return to its original length the 
tracinjifs of the shocks rejraiu their normal size. 



conformably to the mechanical theory of heat you can perceive a notable 
increase of temperature in the rubber. Conversely, submit the rubber 
to an increase of temperature, and it will be seen to contract and lift the 
weight. But under these conditions the amount of i)ower produced by 
the rubber is very suiall. It may, however, be rendered greater. About 
two years ago. Dr. lianvier gave me an account of the following experi- 
ment: He stretchetl a piece of rubber uatil it was fifteen or twenty 
times as long as before, and thus produced in it a passive state, in 
which it remained elongated eveu when traction was no longer exerted 
upon it. While in this state, if the rubber was touched with a warm 
body, it became considerably thickened at the pcint of contact by the 
contraction of the part, and returned to its original leugth and thick- 
ness. Placed in the hollow of the hand the passive thread twisted like 
a worm, and resumed its normal length and size in a few moments. 
Part of the phenomena exhibited in the experiment of Dr. Eanvier was 
readily explained. The heat applied to the rubber was transformed 
into power by it ; but what was the passive state into v/ hich the rubber 
had been brought before the efiect above described could have been 
liroduccd? In repeating the experiment and considering the facts more 
attentively, I soon perceived that the duration of the traction to which 
percha was submitted played an important part in the production of the 
passive state. If I stretched the thread to twenty times its origiual 
length and instantly relaxed it, it readily returned to its original 
condition ; but if the contraction was prolonged thirty seconds, a minute, 
or longer, the thread left to itself contracted only partially. It became 
l)artly passive, and much more completely so when the traction was 
more i)rolonged. jSTow, the influence of the duration of the traction can 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 253 

be rationally explained, if we recollect that tlie rubber becomes heated 
when stretched. We may then naturally suppose that the heat vrhich 
appears upon its surface will disappear by degrees if the traction be 
prolonged ; and if heat is necessary for the contraction of the rubber to 
its original dimensions, it will not contract entirely if a proportion of 
the heat disengaged in stretching has been dissipated. If this theory 
be correct, it will be easy to rapidly produce a passive condition of the 
rubber by quickly depriving it of its sensible heat. This is precisely 
what takes place. Stretch a thread of rubber, and plunge it into cold 
Avater, and it can instantly be taken out in a passive condition, frozen, 
so to speak, in a state of elongation. Heat it, and it returns to its 
original dimensions with the development of power. I hardly doubt 
that the physicist can obtain in the power thus developed the exact 
equivalent of the heat absorbed. 

We have strayed away from our subject, but we shall return to it with 
enlarged ideas which will enable us to analyze more completely the ac- 
tion of the nniscles. In fact, we have in the employment of the percha 
a sort of schema of the muscle. Kow you are aware of what assistance 
can be derived from theoretical apparatus in the study of certain phe- 
nomena which are presented vrith too much complexity, in the case 
of living beings, to be understood readily. The rubber will assist us 
to comprehend the manner in which the wofk of the muscles is per- 
formed in animals in general, and especially in the birds with vrhich we 
are now occupied. Take two cylinders of rubber of the same dimen- 
sions and weight, stretch them to ten times their original length, and 
cool them in that condition. If we restore to these two cylindrical 
threads the amount of heat which they h:id lost, both in contracting 
will perform the same amount of work in a similar manner ; that is, 
both will lift the same weight to the same height. Next, taking two 
cylinders of the same weight, but of unequal diameter, one, let us sup- 
pose, being ten times as thick but only one-tenth as long as the other; 
stretch each ten times its normal length and cool it; both will still be 
able to do the same amount of work, but no longer in the same manner. 
The short, thick cylinder, for instance, will raise a weight of 100 grams 
a distance of one centimeter. The long, thin cylinder will not support 
so great a weight at all, but if loaded with a weight of 10 grams will 
raise it a distance of 10 centimeters. The measure of a mechanical 
power is obtained bj^ multiplying the weight raised by the height 
through which it is raised. This product being the same in the two 
cases, the same amount of power, therefore, has been expended, but not 
in the same way. So, in the cylinders of rubber which have been 
stretched in proportion to their length, and from which the same amount 
of heat has been withdrawn, the amount of ])Ower produced by the res- 
titution of this heat will be proportioned to the weight of the rubber ; 
the weight lifted to the diameter of the rubber, and the height to which 
the weight will be lifted, to the length of the rubber. All that weknow 
of the function of muscle tends to prove that the power exhibited 
by it is governed by the same laws. Thus, the amount of contraction 
of muscles depends on the length of their fibers, while the maximum 
power which they are capable of exerting is proportional to the diame- 
ter of the bundle of muscular fibers. For example, in the case of hu- 
man muscles, the short, thick deltoid muscle is capable of but little 
contraction, but exerts great force ; the long, thin muscles of the fore- 
arm, on the contrary, cannot develop the same power, but by their os- 
seous attachments the extent of their contraction is much greater. If 
we sui)pose these two muscles to be of the same weight, they can do an 



254 PHENOMENA OF PLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



Fiff. 10. 



equal amount of work, but in the different ways wbicli pertain to tlie 
difference in their structural condition. 

If we study the form of the great pectoral muscle, or that whcih pro- 
duces the downward stroke of the wing in different species of birds, we 
shall see that this muscle presents much variation in form. In some 
cases it is long and narrow, in others short and thick. We shall see 
that this anatomical difference corresponds to important differences in 
the character of liight. It is enough to observe the flight of a duck and 
of a marsh harrier to be struck with the great difference in the move- 
ments of the wings of these two birds. The duck elevates and depresses 
its wings very much, describing with each of them an arc of more than 
90°. The extent of these movements in the harrier, on the contrary, is 
very small ; when it is observed in profile the point of wing is hardly 
seen to pass below the shadow of its body. This difference in the type 
of flight has struck some observers with such force that they have divided 
the birds into rowers and sailors. The first are those which strike the air 
with their wings in flying as a boatman strikes the water with his oar ; 
the second class exposing the surtaces of their wings to the wind like the 
sails of a ship, fly in a sort of passive condition, utilizing the currents of 
the air in sustaining and directing themselves. We shall see hereafter 
that there is a reality in this 
distinction; at present w;e 
shall only accept the incon- 
testable fact that certain 
species of birds impart a 
great amplitude to the 
movements of their wings, 
while others move them 
only through a very small 
extent. 

I have dissected a wild 
duck and a harrier to show 
you the form of the pecto- 
ral muscles. In the duck 
the great pectoral is quite 
long, while in the harrier it 
is very short, but the trans- 
verse section of the muscle 
of the harrier is much larger 
than that of the duck. If we 
consider only the relative 
length of the pectoral mus- 
cles we see that it varies, 
as it should do according 
to the theory ,• that is, it is 
greater or less, according to 
the amplitude of the motion 
which the bird executes in 
flying 




Skeleton of the wing and sternum of a frigate-bird. 
Tlie extreme brevity of the sternum is seen in pro- 
liortion to the great length of the wing. 



But to what does this unequal development in the thickness of the 
pectorals correspond"? It would appear to correspond to a greater 
muscular exertion in the harrier than in the duck. How can this exer- 
tion be demonstrated f If we compare the birds which have short and 
thick pectorals with those which have long and thin ones, we see that 
tho surface of the wings is very large in the former, while it is very 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN TTJV AxiTArAr 

uiii IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM 255 




nuiii verj shorl^ ^^ '"°^' ''^^^^ the ster- 



ol , A -"I'-'^'^^'-'u lu Lue extent of 
that surface; other tliiugs 1 eiifi 
the same, a greaterexertron Is re" 
quired to move a hir-e win ' than 
one of less superficial elctent 

that the difierence in the form 
of the pectoral muscles iu differ^ 
eut birds accords with the diflbr- 
euces presented in the manner 
m ^hich thej perform their re 
spective work. Two birds of the 

iaboi m flyiuo-, ^nd apparentlv 
should have muscles of the same 

wht^. I 7^ thtterences in form 
tTV J^ ^^ ^'^^^e indicated, we see 
Uiattheworkisdoneindifferln? 
wa s _ The birds with small 
^Jiigs increase the small resist 
aoce which these offer to tlie ah- 

But, It ma.Y be said mtnvr. 
might have attained tl e:se liffbr 
ent methods of flight bv gh^cr 
muscles of uniform%roani?al "S 
toall birds. It would have beeu 

snftcient to have given difent 
pasitions to the point of attach- 
ment of the great pectoral to the 
humerus, or, in other words to 
vaiy the length of the arm of the 
res stance. Comparative anat- 

ral is always attached close to 

Jifi "^?^"^^ (distance .Miich sep- 
arates tins attachment from the 
center of motion of the hurerus 

with the form of the bird and 
not according- to the rela ive v 
greater or less extent of thi 
wing-s. This last depends prince 
??i^/"^»,,^^^^l^"8thofthefoi"- 
aim and its appendages. It is 

Kls^of dT^ to dissl^ct many 
f]il/^'^^''^^t kinds to prove 
the constancy of the law which I 



256 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



Fis. 12. 



have songlit to establish with reft'ard to the relations of the alar surface 
viitli the length of the great pectora nmscle. 

The inspection of the skeleton furnislies the principal elements of this 
verification. Passing through that i>art of the zoological collection in 
the museum which is devoted to the exliibition of the skeletons of birds, 
you will come away convinced of the relation between the extent of the 
wing and the length of the great pectoral muscle, as shown in tlie length 
of tiie sternum. You see by Figs. 10, 11, and 12, how osteology furnishes 
the necessary proofs of this statement. 

In birds the de- 
velopment of the 
bones of the wing 
gives us a sufti- 
ciently correct idea 
of the extent of sur- 
face presented by 
these organs when 
covered with feath- 
ers. Compare the 
prodigious length of 
the fore-arms in the 
al batross with those 
of the duck, guille- 
mot, or diver ; the 
proportion of the 
bones will give at 
the first glance the 
superiority in re- 
gard to flight of the 
albatross in the 
greater extent of its 
wings. Comparing 
the sternum of dif- 
ferent birds you will 
find it large, but 
very short, in the 
albatross. On the 
contrary, in the 
duck, the diver, and 
the guillemot, tlie 




Skeleton of a penguin, 
uum very long. 



The wing is very short, and the ster- 



sternum, though narrower, is comparatively very long. The lateral 
channels, wbich lie on each side of its keel, represent, in one sense, 
a hollow mold of the pectoral muscles. You can thus verify by the 
skeletons of hawks and other rapacious birds, the fact that short, 
thick muscles appertain to large wings ; and by the skeletons of ducks, 
swans, and diving birds, that small wings possess more slender but 
larger muscles. This brings us to the considerations which I have pre- 
viously brought forward. We now see how we can measure the power 
developed by a flying bird. It is necessary to know the resistance 
which the air presents to the surface of its wing, and to multiply this 
resistance for each stroke by the distance which it traverses. Still the 
problem is not as simple as one might suppose, after this announcement. 
All tends to the belief that the. rapidity with which the wing strikes the 
air is not uniform, and that it has increasing and decreasing phases, to 
which the relative resistance of the air corresponds. To know the exact 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IX THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 257 

nature of tlie movements of a bird's wing is the question now presented, 
and this will be the object of our next experiments. 

Form of the bird. — All those who have studied the flight of birds have 
called attention, with great i)ropriety, to the form of these animals, 
which renders them eminently suited to tiight. They have seen in it 
the conditions necessary for perfect stability in the midst of the air. 
They have well understood the office of those great surfaces formed by 
the wings, which sometimes serve as a parachute to enable the aiiinud 
to descend very slowly, while at others these surfaces glide over the 
air, following the plane of their inclination, and permitting the bird to 
descend oblicpu'ly, or even to rise, or, as we shall see, to advance with 
motionless wings. But many observers have gone so far as to assert 
that some species of birds have an entirely passive iiight, and that, sub- 
mitting their wings to the action of the wind, they obtain a force sufti- 
cient to propel themselves in any direction, even against the wind itself. 
It seems to me important to discuss, in a few words, this essential point 
in the theory of tlight. 

The stability of the bird has been fully explained; there is nothing to 
add to the remarks which have been uuuleon this subject. The attach- 
ment of the wings is situated exactly at the most elevatetl part of the 
thorax of the bird, and consequently when the extended wings take 
hold on the air the weight of the body is to be found below this surface ot 
suspension. It is known also that in the* body itself the lighter organs, 
the lungs and air sacs, are above, while the denser mass of the intestines 
is vsituated below. Lastly, the thoracic muscles, so heavy and thick, 
occn[)y the lowest point of the system, so that the densest portion of the 
body is placed as much below the point of suspension as ])ossible. The 
bird which descends with outstretched wings, therefore, always has its 
ventral region lowest ; it does not need to exert itself in order to preserve 
its equilibrium, but takes this attitude passively-, as does the parachute 
when let fall throngh the atmosphere, or as the shuttlecock Avliich falls 
back upon the battledore. But this vertical descent of which I have 
spoken is exceptional; the descending bird is almost always actuated 
by a motion previously obtained, so that it slides obliquely upon the air 
as does a light body of large su])erticial extent when placed in the above 
mentioned situation. Mr. J. Pline has carefully studied the different 
kinds of sliding which may occur in this manner, and has even repro- 
duced them by means of a very simple and easily-constructed theoreti- 
cal apparatus. Take a square sheet of paper and fold it midway, so as 
to form a rather obtuse angle, as in Fig. 13; then, with a little wax, 
fix in this angle a small metal rod, furnished with two balls of the same 
weight, and the result will be an apparatus which will possess stability 
in the air. 

If the center of gravity is exactly in the center of the apparatus, it 
will be seen to fall vertically when dropped into the air, with the edge 
of the angle downward. If the center of gravity is displaced by taking 
away one of the two balls, instead of falling vertically, it will pursue an 
oblique course and slide over the air with an accelerated motion. The 
trajectory of the apparatus in this case will be described in a vertical 
plane if the two sides of the apparatus are perfectly symmetrical ; if 
this is not the case it will be deflected toward the side of least resist- 
ance. This effect, easily comprehended, is identical with that produced 
in the course of a ship by the resistance of the rudder. It can also be 
produced in a vertical plane, so that the trajectory of the apparatus 
may present a curve with a superior or inferior concavity, according to 
the conditions of its projection. 
17SG9 



25 ^ 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



All tliiu curved bodies tend to slide upon the air in tlie direction of 
the radius of their special curve. If we bend the anterior or posterior 
edg^e of our little apparatus at a certain point in its oblique course, we 
shall see it rise, notwithstanding the force of gravity, though its motion 
soon ceases. What has happened in this case? 

Fiji. i:?. 



~& 



2^V 



-©- 



-o 



-SSr 



—Q- 



-®- 



-§h-—''' 



Fiff. 14. 



^ 



O- 

Eepreseutiug to tlie left Pline's apparatus placed in equilibrium by means of two 
equal balls at the extremities of the rgd which lies at the bottom of the anj^le of tlio 
beut paper. This, as is iudicated by the lower representations of the rod, falls verti- 
cally. To the right the same apparatus, with only a single ball, is represented. It 
descends in a parabolic curve, represented by the dotted hue. 

When there has been but little raindity in the fall of the object, the 
curve of its surface remains motionless, because the air offers resistance 
only in proportion to the rapidity with which they move. Therefore, 
when this rapidity has been sufficiently great a steering effect is pro- 
duced, which elevates 
the anterior extremity 

of the object and im- >r-7 

parts an ascending -oA_ 

motion to it. But very 
soon the weight, which h 

was the motive power -<^— 

of the apparatus, be- 
comes a retarding 
force, and in propor- 
tion as the object as- 
cends its motion be- ^ 
comes slower, and 
finally ceases. After 
this, retrogradation 
begins, to be followed 
by another rise, and 
so on, until by suc- 
cessive oscillations the 
apparatus finally reaches the earth. I may add that if a slight con- 
cavity is given to the object below, the reverse takes place, and we see 
at a certain moment the trajectory sharply deflected downward, and 
the object strikes the earth with great violence. In the second case, 
at the moment when the steering effect is produced, the weight is in a 
favorable position for a precipitate descent, and opposed to the ascend- 
ing reaction. 




The posterior corners of the two planes of the apparatus 
have been bent upward and inward, so that after a descend- 
ing curve the apparatus rises, as the dotted line indicates. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



259 



I emphasize these effects because tbey are frequently produced in tlie 
flight of birds. The okl treatises on falconry describe the interesting- 
evolutions of the birds employed in hunting. Without going- back 
further, we lind in Iluber (octavo, published at (leneva in 1784) a descrip- 
tion of the curvilinear movements of the falcon, to which they gave the 
name of j>rt6'6'«//e&, and which consisted in an oblique descent of the bird, 
followed by a rise in its course. "The bird," says Huber, "when about 
to strike the earth, carried away by its own rapidity, would be dashed 
to i)ieces if it did not call into action a certain faculty which it possesses, 
stronger than its descending motion, to rise even high enough to make 
a second swoop. This motion is suhicient, not only to arrest its descent, 
but even to carry it without eftort as high as the elevation from which 
it came." 

Fiff. 15. 



~o~ 




The posterior corners of the paper have been 
bent downward. After passing through a para- 
bolic curve the object takes a very rapid desceud- 
insj course. 



There is certainly exaggera- 
tion in the statement that the 
bird remounts as high as the ele- 
vation from which it descended 
without further eftort. The re- 
sistance of the air must over- 
come part of the force acquired 
during the descent, and which 
is transformed into ascending- 
force. We see, however, that 
the phenomena above described 
is confirmed by observation, and 
that it has been considered in 
some sort as a passive act in 
which the bird expends no mus- 
cular power. The act of hover- 
ing in st)me cases i)resents a 
great analogy with the phenom- 
ena just described. When some 
birds, pigeons for instance, have 
used their wings during a certain distance, the wings are seen to be 
perfectly quiet during a few seconds gliding through the air, either 
horizontally or rising or falling. The descending motion has the long- 
est duration; in fact it is only an extremely prolonged descent in which 
motion is maintained by the force of gravity, which diminishes it in the 
horizontal or ascending plane. In these latter forms the wing, more or 
less obliquely directed, takes hold on the air like the toy kite, with this 
difference, that motion is imparted to this by pulling the string when 
the air is calm, while the bird utilizes momentum previously acquired by 
an oblique descent or previous strokes of the wings. 

I have already said that observers have admitted that certain birds, 
which they call sailors, can sustain and direct themselves in the air by 
means of the wind alone. This theory appears paradoxical. It is in- 
comprehensible that a bird, motionless in the wind, shoidd not yield to 
the resistance of the air through which it glides. If the passades or 
swoops which the falcon executes can sometimes carry it against the 
wind, this can only be a transient effect, compensated for by being car- 
ried away by the wind more rapidly in another moment. However, 
this theory has been sustained with great talent by some observers, 
especially the Count d'Esterno, the author of a remarkable memoir 
on the flight of birds. "Every one," he says, "can see some birds 
practicing this method of flight; to deny it is to deny vself-evident 
facts." I myself have noticed this mode of flying, but it has seemed 



260 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

to me that it is executed in general under the following special 
conditions: Along the cliffs of the coast of Normandy I have seen the 
gulls and sea-mews performing their evolutions without moving their 
wings. I have seen the daws and rooks flying in the same manner 
around old cathedrals. But the same birds, when they left these 
special stations, have always appeared to me to .use the rowing method 
of flight; that is to say, making regular strokes of their wings, vSome- 
times interrupted in the daws by swoops of short duration. I then 
sought to determine the direction of the wind, and this is what seemed to 
me to occur : When a bird finds itself in the neighborhood of a cliff, 
where the air is calm or agitated by eddies iu a contrary direction to 
the prevailing wind, it can pass successively from the calm to the agitated 
air, and conversely. A sea-mew surrendering itself to the force of the 
wind, receives an impulse which carries it with a certain rapidity, and 
if, by simply turning, the bird enters a region of calm air, it can utilize 
the impulse which the wind has given it in returning to the height 
which it had left. Plungingagain into the zone of agitated air, it recom- 
mences the evolution whicli 1 liave just described, without moving its 
wings, except to give them different inclinations. The daws and rooks 
ai)pear to me to find the same conditions around the cathedral towers. 
The authors who have reported the most curious cases of sailing flight 
have observed them in mountainous regions. It is a condor in the 
Cordilleras, or an eagle iu the Pyrenees. The sailing flight has often 
been described of certain birds of prey, who, in the middle of a i)laiu, 
rise and turn without moving their wings. I myself have often seen 
harriers fly in this manner, but I have always determined, also, that in 
this case the si>iral which they describe is altered by the wind, and 
that the birds are definitely carried to leeward with a more or less rapid 
motion. 

Even when reduced to these limits the influence of the wind on the 
flight of birds is very difficult to explain. It is complicated by very 
diflerent conditions in which the motion acquired by the bird, opposed 
from various directions by the force of the Avind, gives rise to the most 
varied combinations of motion. It is also known that in the upper 
regions of the air various currents exist, sometimes even iu a contrary 
direction to those which obtain near the surface of the earth, so that the 
bird, passing from one to another, find forces which carry it in opposite 
directions.* 

Finally, the question of sailing flight seems to me one of the most 
difficult to solve. It would be temeritous to absolutely condemn the 
opinion of observers upon such vague theories and ideas as we possess 
upon the subject. 

One of the most interesting points in the conformation of birds con- 
sists in the determination of the relations of the extent of the alar sur- 
faces to the weight of the animal. Is there a constant relation between 
the weight and these surfaces"? This question has been the cause of 
numerous controversies. It has been already shown that if birds of 
very diflerent kinds, yet of the same w^eight, be compared, the wings of 
some species are foAnd to have four or five times the extent of others. 
The birds which have large wings are usually those which have been 
called "sailors," while those which have the wing short and narrow are 
generall}^ classed as "rowers.' But if we compare two "rowing" birds 
with two "sailing" birds; if, for still closer comparison, we take them 

* The late Mr. Espy suggested that the phenomcuou of sailing in the flight of birds 
is due to upward currents of air which talie place in warm weather, or beneath clouds, 
and esiiecially up the side of a mountain against which the wind is blowing. — J. H. 



PHENOMLXA OF FLIGHT IN THE AXIMAL KINGDOM. 



261 



from the same fomily, in ortler that the only differences shall be those of 
form, a somewhat constant relation Avill be fonud between the weight of 
the bird and the surface of its wings. But the determination of this 
relation should be based upon certain considerations, which have long 
escaped the attention of naturalists. ]Mr. de Lucy sons'ht to measure 
the surface of the winus and tfie weight of the body in all tlying 
animals. Now, toestablish a common unit amonganimalsof such different 
kinds and forms, he reduced all the measures to an ideal type, of which 
tlie weight should always be one kilogram. Thus, after having proved 
that the gnat, which weighs three milligrams, ])ossessed wings with a 
surface thirty millimetres square, he concluded, in the types represented 
by the gnat, the kilogram of animal was su[)i)orted by an alar surface of 
ten square millimeters. By making a comparative table of the measures 
taken from a great number of animals of different kinds and various 
forms, he arrived at the following figures : 



Species. 


Weight. Wing surface. 


Surface per kilogram. 


Gnat 


3 milligrams..' .SO so. millimeters 


10 sq. millimeters. 

8^ millimeters. 
2, 58G sq. centimeters. 
1, 998 sq. centimeters. 
899 sq. centimeters. 


Bntterllv 


20 centigrams. 

290 grams 

2, 265 grams . . 
9, 500 grams . . 


1,063 sq. millimeters. 
750 sq. centigrams... 
4, 506 sq. centimeters. 
8, 543 sq. centimeters. 


Pi ""eon .... .. 


Stork 


Australian crane 



From these measurements, in spite of variations in detail, the evi- 
dent result is obtained, that animals of large size and great weight 
sustain themselves with a much smaller proportional alar surface than 
smaller animals. A similar result already shows that the office of the 
wing in flight is not merely passive, for a sail or parachute should al- 
ways have a surface i^roportioned to the weight which acts npon it ; 
considered, on the contrary, from its true point of view, that is to say, 
as an instrument for striking the air, the wing of the bird should, as 
■we shall see, present a relatively smaller surface in birds of large size 
and great Aveight. The astonishment exhibited at the result of the de- 
terminations nmde by Mr. de Lucy disappeared when it was remem- 
bered that there was a geometrical reason wliy the alar surfiice could 
not increase in proportion to the weight of the bird. In fact, if Ave 
take two objects of the same shape, two cubes, for example, of which 
one shall be twice as large in diameter as the other, each one of the 
faces of the larger cube will be four times as large as the corresponding 
face of the smaller, while the Aveight of the greater cube will be eight 
times that of the lesser one. For all similar geometrically solids, the 
linear dimensions having a stated relation to each other, the surfaces 
are as the square and the weight as the cube of their similar linear di- 
mensions. Two birds of similar form, but haA'ing, one of them, the 
spread of the wings from tip to tip twice as great' as in the other, Avill 
haA'e respective wing surfaces in the proportion of 1 : 4, and Aveight as 
1 : 8. M. P. Demondesir, who applied these principles before me, 
thought that he had found in them a reason for the smaller size of 
birds are capable of flight, while those of a larger kind, such as os- 
triches and cassowarys, do not fly; he observes that if these birds had 
as large wings as the heron, in proportion to their weight, they could 
not fold them completely, and would drag them as long and embarrass- 
ing appendages. These observations would be correct according to the 
theory of "sailing" flight, but in "rowing" flight, the anqylitude of the 



262 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



stroke of the "wiug, increasing in proportion to the size of the bird, mul- 
tii)lies the resistance which the wing meets from the air, and the reac- 
tion bears a simihir proportion to the weight of tlie birds themselves. 
Dr. Hurean de Villeneuve, upon the same principle, has sought to de- 
termine the alar extent which would enable a bat of the same weiglit 
as a man to fly. He found that each*of its wings would be less than 
three meters in length. 

A renmrkable work by Hastings* has appeared this year on the rela- 
tive extent of the wings and the weight of the pectoral muscles in the 
different species of flying vertebrate animals. The author first shows 
that among birds the existence can be established of a certain relation 
between the surface of the wings and the weight of the body. But we 
should be careful to compare only comparable elements ; that is to say, 
the length of the wings, the square roots of the alar surfaces, and the 
cube roots of the weight among different birds. Let I be the length of 
the wiug, a its area, and w the weight of the body, we can compare 
among themselves /, Vrt^ ^/w. 

Examining different types of bird, Hastings made weights and mea- 
surements, from which the following table is extracted : 



Species. 



Larus arj^entatus . . 

Anas uyroca 

Fulica atra 

Nettion crecca 

Laus ridibuudus . . . 
Machetes puj;;iiax . . 
Rallus aquaticiis . . 

Tardus pilaris, 

Tiirdus nieriila 

Stnrniis vulgaris . . 
Ijombycilla garrula 

Alauda arveusis 

Parus major 

Friugilla spiuns . . . 
Parus ciieruleus 



^Veigllt. 


Surface. 


Relation between 
them. 


u\ 


a. 


\/a v'w -1- 3y'w. 


565. 


541 


2.02 


508. 


321 


2. 26 


495.0 


262 


2. 05 


275. 5 


144 


1.81 


197.0 


331 


3. 13 


190. 


164 


2. 23 


170. 5 


101 


1.81 


103.4 


101 


2.14 


88.8 


106 


2. 31 


86.4 


85 


2. 09 


60.0 


44 


1.69 


32.2 


75 


2. 69 


14.5 


31 


2.29 


10. 1 


25 


2.33 


9.1 


24 


2.34 



The weight of the pectoral muscles is, on the contrary, in simple pro- 
portion to the total weight of the bird, and in spite of the difterences 
which correspond to the diflerent degrees of a|)titude to flight with 
which each species is endowed, we perceive that the proportion of the 
weight of the pectoral to the total weight is about one-sixth in the 
greater nnmber of birds. 

Each animal capable of sustaining itself in the air must develop a 
force proportional to its own weight, and should possess an amount of 
muscle proportioned to this weight; for, as we have seen, if the chemi- 
cal action which takes place in the wings of birds be always of the 
same nature, this chemical action and the power which it generates will 
be proportionate to the size of the muscular masses. Now, how is it 
that the wings of birds in which the surface varies as the square of the 
linear dimensions suffice to move bodies of which the variation is in 
proportion to the cubes of these dimensions ? Here it is necessary to 

* Archives Necrlandaises, t. iv. 1869. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 263 

l)ring in the theory of power ; that is to say, of resistance multiplied by 
the square of the distance through which it acts in a given time, admit- 
ting a uniform rate for the downward stroke of the extremity of the 
wing in two birds to be compared, and which have the proportion of 
1 : li in their linear dimensions. The surface of the wings of the larger 

Fijr. 16. 




bird will be, as we have already said, four times as great as that of 
the smaller one; now, as the resistance of the air against surfaces 
moving at the same rate is proportionate to their extent, if we call the 
resistance experienced by the wing of the small bird r, that for tlie 
large bird will be 4 r. But these birds, in the downward stroke of their 
wings, do not execute motions of equal amplitude. In the large bird, 



264 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

each point of the wiug will travel twice as far as the similar part of the 
smaller bird. It we call the space traversed g, the resistance r, which 
the wing: of the small bird enconnters, we shall have rg for the work 
done by the wing, and 4 r 2 g or 8 rg for the work done by the biixl. 
We see, then, that this work increases in the same proportion as the 
weight of the animals we are comparing. 

Another conclnsion resnlts from the preceding considerations. If we 
admit that the wing jiossesses the same velocity in both birds, the dura- 
tion of the stroke will increase with the space traversed by the wing; 
that is, it will be i)rop()rtioned to the linear dimensions of the bird. 
Observation confirms this view by showing tbat large birds make fewer 
strokes than small ones do. We have not yet been able to determine 
exactly the number of strokes of the wings of birds to ascertain if their 
frequency presents an exact inverse ratio to the size of the animal, but 
it is easy to see that it is in this manner that the frequency of the wing- 
strokes of birds varies. 

The graphic method, which is easily emi^loyed in deterinining the 
frequency of the wing-strokes of insects, cannot be similarly employed 
with birds. It is necessary to adopt some method of transmitting 
signals from the flying bird to the registering appaiatus. For this pur- 
pose, I have first used the electric telegraphy which furnishes the means 
of solving the following questions: 1. What is the frequency of the 
strokes of the wings of a bird"? 2. What are the relative durations of 
the periods of elevation and depression of the wings ? The experiment 
consists in placing at the extremity of the wing an apparatus which 
breaks or closes an electric circuit at each of the alternate motions, 
while at the further i)art of the circuit is placed an electro-magnetic 
apparatus, which makes a trace upon a turning cylinder. Fig. IG 
shows this method of studying the flight of a pigeon, together with 
another method of transmitting signals. In this figure the two wires 
are separated from each other. 

The writing style traces a crenulated line of which the changes of 
direction correspond to a change in the direction of the motion of the 
wing. 

In Order that the flight may be as free as possible, a fine, flexible cord, 
containing two wn'es, establishes the communication between the bird 
and the writing telegraph. The two ends of the two wires are attached 
to a very small, light apparatus which, from the resistance of the air, 
executes a kind of valvular motion. When the wing is elevated the 
valve opens, the circuit is broken, and the line traced b^^ the telegraph 
rises. When the wing descends the valve closes ; the circuit is also 
closed, and the line is depressed. 

Applied to different kinds of birds, this api^aratus registers the fre- 
quency of the strokes of the wing in each. The number of species 
which I have as yet been able to study is very small ; I have, however^ 
obtained the following results: 

Nmiiber of vibrations of the icing licr second. 

Sparrow 13 

Wild duck 

Pigeon 8 

Hen-hawk, Buteo vulgaris, ahaw^k called in England and France the 

" buzzard " or " husarW 5| 

Screech-owl 5 

Harrier, Circus rufus, marsh harrier of England, huse of France 3 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE AMIMAL KINGDOM. 



265 



The frequency of the strokes varies accordiDg- as the bird is starting, 
is in full motion, or at the end of its flight. Some birds, as we know, 
have periods when the wing is motionless, and when they move by 
means of the momentum acquired. 

It is interesting to observe the relative duration of the periods of 
ascent and descent of the wings. Contrary to the opinion expressed by 
some observers, the descending- period is generally longer than that of 
elevation. The inequality of the two periods is especially evident in 
birds which have large wings and make few strokes. Thus, whde the 
periods are almost equal in the duck, which has very narrow wings, they 
are unequal in the pigeon, and much more so in the harrier. 

The following figures exhibit the results obtained from several species 
of birds : 



Species. 


Total distance traversed during one com- 
plete oscillation of the wing. 


Proportional dis- 
tance. 




Ascent. 


Descent. 


Duck 


6.6fi centi^nies per second 


3.0 
3.0 

8.5 


3 66 


Pioeon 


7.5 ceati^mes jter second 


4.5 


Harrier 


21.5 ceutieuies per second 


13 









It is more difticult than might be supposed to determine the precise 
instant of the change of direction in the line traced by the telegraph. 
The attraction of the magnet and the relaxation have an appreciable 
duration, if the blackened cylinder turns with snfticient velocity to 
measure the rapid motions which we seek to analyze. The inflections 
of the line traced by the telegraph then become curves, of which it is 
somewhat diflicult to determine the precise origin. There is therefore 
a limit to the precision of the measurements which can be made by the 
electric method. I think that we cannot approximate by this method 
nearer than J^^ of a second to the duration of a motion." 

Another kind of signal allows the estimation of tlie frequency of the 
stroke at the same time that it furnishes indications of the successive 
action of the principal motive muscles of the wing. 

Mi/og}'(q)Jtic method. — In 1807 I indicated a myographic method winch 
might be api)lied without mutilating the animal upon which the experi- 
ment was performed. It consists in enq)loying the swelling of a muscle 
to afford evidence of its changes in length — that is to say, by its con- 
traction or relaxath)n. Muscles, not being sensibly compressible, cannot 
change their length Avithout at the same time changing their transverse 
diameter. A rapid or short, feeble or energetic contraction of a muscle, 
hence, is accompanied by an increase in diameter, aflording the same 
features of rate or intensity. At each descent of the bird's wing the 
great pectoral muscle thus exhibits an increase of size, which can bg 
indicated by the registering apparatus. 

I have made use of flexible air tubes of India-rubber in transmitting 
these effects, a method which has enabled me at times to register at 
some distance the beating of the heart, the puJse, and the motions of 
resi>iration. 

The bird flies in an inclosure fifteen meters square and eight meters 
high. The registering apparatus being placed in the center of this 
enclosure, twelve meters of rubber tubing are enough to establish a con- 
stant communication between it and the bird. A sort of corset is applied 
to a pigeon, (see Fig. 10.) Under this corset, between it and the pectoral 




266 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

muscle, is placed a little contrivance intended to exhibit tlie swelling of 
the muscle. It consists of a small, shallow metal basin containing a 
spiral spring and is closed over by a thin sheet of rubber. This basin, 
thus closed, communicates with the transmitting tiibe. 

Any pressure applied to the 
face of the api)aratus depresses 
the rubber. The air is forced 
out of the basin and escapes by 
the tube. If the ])ressure ceases, 
the air reenters the basin in con- 
sequence of the elasticity of the 
spring which raises the rubber. 
An alternate inspiration and as- 
piration is bv this means estab- 
lished in the tube, and the mo- Apparatus for exhibiting the contraction of 
^ ., . ' -^ - .1 the thoracic muscles or birds. Ihe upper con- 

tion Ot the air transmits to the vex face is formed of a sheet of rubber, held 
registering apparatus a signal of up by a spiral spring, and is applied to the mus- 
the more or less intense pressure cles. The lower face, in contact with the cor- 

which has been exerted upon the ^f ' ^fYi'" ^''"^"^[,"6 hooks which are caught in 

, , n ., ■, • mi the cloth and hold the apparatus m its place, 

rubber cover of the basin. The 

registering apparatus I have used in all my experiments is also com- 
I)osed of a basin, covered by a rubber membrane communicating with 
the transmitting tube. The motion imparted to the first basin is 
transmitted by the air to the rubber cover of the second. The motions 
of the membrane of the receiving apparatus, amplified by a lever, are 
written on the smoked cylinder. Figure 10 represents the general 
arrangement of the experiment in which the electric telegraph and trans- 
mission by air are exhibited together. We see the pigeon under ex- 
periment furnished with its corset and apparatus for showing the move- 
ments of its pectoral muscles. The transmitting air-tube ends at the 
registering apparatus, which writes on a revolving cylinder. At the 
extremity of the i)igeon's wing is an arrangement which opens or closes 
an electric circuit as the wing rises or falls. The two wires of the cir- 
cuit are represented separately, and two cells of Bunsen's battery are 
seen in their connection, with the helix, which, furnished with a lever, 
registers the telegraphic signals of the motions of the wings. One pre- 
caution is indispensable — the rubber tube which connects the bird and the 
apparatus must be prevented from stretching. When the bird flies it 
raises more or less of the tube, and if this is elastic it will become elon- 
gated by its own weight, producing a rarefaction of the air contained 
in the two receptacles, and the registering lever will trace muscular 
curves on a decending line. To prevent this inconvenience, the tube 
may be tied here and there to the telegraphic cord by means of ligatures, 
taking care that the tube is a little longer than the cord, and that 
it is not subjected to traction. These precautions- being taken, nothing 
jjrevents the successful transmission of signals. Ko trouble need be 
taken in regard to the elasticity of the tube in a transverse direction ; 
its walls are so thick that their elasticity is not brought into play by the 
feeble changes of pressure to which the air they contain is subjected. 

The bird is let loose at one end of the inclosure, the dove-cote in which 
it is ordinarily kept being placed at the opposite end. The bird 
naturally flies toward the latter. During its flight the tracings repre- 
sented by Fig. 18 are obtained. 

The trace is seen to differ according to the kind of bird experimented 
upon. However, in all the traces we perceive the periodical return of 
two motions, a and b, which are i)roduced in each vibration of the wing. 



• PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 267 

Fie. IB.* Fiff. 19. 




Fig. 18. Myographic tracings of the pectorals, obtained from various kinds of birds 
during tlight. I. Tracing of the tuning-fork to be used in measuring the absolute 
duration of each muscular motion ; this tuning-fork vibrates 200 times a second. II. 
Tracing of the muscles of a pigeon obtained, as in Fig. 16. III. Tracing of a wild 
duck. IV. Tracing of a hen-hawk. V. Tracing of a harrier. 

Fig. 19. Line a represents the electric tracing of the ascent and descent of the wing 
of a harrier, as furnislied by the apparatus. Line 6 is a tracing of a tuning-fork vibrat- 
ing 200 times a second. Line c, correction of the electric tracing, which latter does not 
represent the changes with sufficient abruptness in the figure {a) obtained directly from 
the wing. Line d, tracing of the action of the pectoral muscles in the harrier by the air 
apparatus ; a', period of elevation of the wing ; &', period of depression. Line e will 
be hereafter referred to; it represents the vertical oscillations of the bird during flight. 



268 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

What is the signification of these two muscular actions ? It is readily- 
seen that the undulation a corresponds to the action of the muscle which 
elevates the wing, and h to that of the muscle which depresses it. 
This can readily be proved by comparing the trace of the, muscular 
action in the electric trace of the elevation and depression of the 
wang. These two tracings, placed one under the other, show that 
the period of elevation of the wing agrees with the extent of the 
unduhitiou a, and the period of depression with the undulation h. 

But to establish this agreement we must take the unequal rapidity of 
the transmission of the electric and aerial signals into account. We 
may consider the electric transmission as instantaneous, while the aerial 
transmission is at the same rate as the rapidity of sound through the 
air, that is, 334 metres per second. If the points of the two sujles are 
placed vertically one above another, the tracings will not be exactly 
superposed, but the electric signal will precede the other by a distance 
corresponding to a certain fraction of a second, according to the length 
of the tube which has been employed. We can even compute, from the 
length of the air-tube, the amount of retardation, but it is more certainly 
ascertained by a special determination for the particular tube which 
may be in use. In a previous experiment, motions were simultauf ously 
transmitted by the tube and by electricity, and the discrepancy de- 
termined. In the apparatus which I am using, the constant discrepancy 
is .01: of a second. I should therefore set back the electric signals by 
a corresponding distance, in order that they may agree with the signals 
transmitted by the air-tube. Fig. 19 shows the superposed tracing 
from a harrier after correction. 

It is easy to understand how the undulations a and & are produced in 
all the tracings of the muscles of birds. In fact there exist two distinct 
planes of muscles, in the upper part of the region investigated, near the 
end of the sternum. The most superficial is formed by the great i)ec- 
toral which lowers the wing, the decider by the median pectoral or eleva- 
tor of the wing, the tendon of which passes behind the bifurcation of 
the sternum to attach itself to the head of the humerus. The two sup- 
perposed muscles act by their swelling upon the apparatus applied to 
them. The median j^ectoral swells when it contracts, signalizing the 
undulation a by its action ; the great i)ectoral signalizes the lowering of 
the wing in the undulation & in a similar manner. 

We can verify the correctness uf this explanation by a very simple 
experiment. Anatomy shows us that the median pectoral is narrow, and 
only covers the inner i^ortion of the great pectoral along the keel of the 
sternum. So if we displace the little apparatus which reveals the motion 
of these muscles, and carry it further outward, it will occupy a region 
where the median pectoral does not cover the great pectoral, and the 
tracing only presents a simple undulation, which corresponds to h in the 
figures. 

It is, therefore, sufficiently demonstrated that the undulations a and 
&, in the muscular tracings of the birds upon which I have experimented, 
correspond exactly to the jirincipal elevating and depressing muscles of 
the wing; but we cannot attach much importance to the form of these 
tracings for deducing the precise nature of the motion effected by the 
muscle. In fact, these motions appear to override one another. So the 
relaxation of the median pectoral is probably incomplete when the great 
I)ectoral commences to act. We should expect no more from these tracings 
than they naturally furnish, that is to say, the number of vibrations of 
the wing, the greater or less regularity of its movements, the equality, 
inequality, and energy of each of them. Eestricting the inquiry within 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 269 






3 93 ^ 

-s^ S 

■? Ch +3 



+i o 



totcv 



o " 






these limits, the experiments show that the strokes of the wings of birds 
differ in frequency and amplitude in the difiereiit moments of flight. 
At starting the strokes are fewer but more energetic ; they attain, after 
the first two or three, a regular rhythm, which they lose at the moment 
when 'the animal is about to alight. 
"^"^""—"'■^ We shall find in other experiments more 

complete indications of the variation of the 
movements of the wing during the different 
jieriods of flight. 

Such are the certain indications which can be 
derived from the method of signalizing estab- 
lished between the flying bird and the regis- 
tering apparatus. But if it is wise to guard 
our conclusions by more rigorous experiments, 
it may at least be permitted us to attempt 
to discover whether the tracings of these mus- 
cles cannot furnish us with further informa- 
tion in regard to the motions from which they 
are derived. I have elsewhere demoustrated 
that the form of the motion produced by a 
muscle when it is excited varies according to 
the resistance which this motion encounters. 
Thus, in applying the myograph to the muscle 
of a frog, I have seen that if contraction be 
impeded by an obstacle the duration of the 
muscular shock becomes greater on account of 
that obstacle. Theory, also, would foretell us, 
that if the muscle presents certain modifica- 
tions in the different phases of its contraction, 
the result of unequal resistance overcome at 
different periods, the swelling of the muscle 
should also present the same phases. If the 
tracing is the exact impression of the motions 
produced by the muscle, it can inform us of 
the nature of the resistance wdiich the wing of 
the bird encounters in the different phases of 
g one of its vibrations. 

5, Let us take the most simple example. As 
^ the median pectoral and great pectoral are very 
^ 2 unequal in size, we may suppose that if the 
resistance is equal in the two periods of ele- 
vation and depression, the duration of the for- 
mer would much exceed that of the latter; 
and, as exactly the contrary is the case, we 
g I may conclude that the rising wing does not 
£ p, strike the air but cuts it, ap])arently with its 
edge, so that the resistance to the elevation 
is very feeble, and is very strong to the de- 
Now, if we examine the tracing of the depression 
of the wing we shall find there, within certain limits, the expression of 
the different amount of resistance which the wing encounters in the dif- 
ferent phases of its depression. It is necessary by previous experiments 
to determine the effect of certain special kinds of resistance, which we 
may call elastic resistance, in order to better understand the significa- 
tion of different forms of muscular motion. 






1^ 



■ - ^ a 

n ® o 

<c X (-> 

\ ° r.^ r 

4J © C F 

S <D fl O 

C O <U _^ 



B -P 



pression of the wing. 



270 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

Let US take the muscle of .a frog, apply it to tbe myrograpli, and ex- 
cite contraction in it by means of electricity. The form of this con- 
traction varies in the following manner, under the influence of different 
kinds of resistance opposed to the action of the muscle : If a weight 
be suspended to the muscle it gives the tracing «, Fig. 21. If it en- 
counter an absolute obstacle to all further diminution of length, after 
a few instants of contraction it gives tbe trace l>. Finally, if it eucouu 
ters an elastic obstacle, as a rubber thread, whi(;li i^resents a surmount 
able resistance, the muscle gives the curve c. It seems as if these dif 
ferent forms were sufldcient to characterize the nature of the resistance 
that the contraction of the muscle has had to overcome. 

In the first case it is the inertia of a body ; now this body, submitted 
to the muscular force during a limited period, sliould have an acceler- 
ated motion at first and then a diminishing motion. This is precisely 
what the form of the curve a indicates. In the second case it is not 
necessary to explain how the horizontal line which forms the summit of 
the curve &, expresses the cessation of all contraction in the presence of 
an absolute obstacle. Lastly, in the curve c, the presence of an obstacle 
is betrayed by a deflection of the curve ; that is, by a change in the 
rapidity of the motion which produces it ; but the contraction does not 
cease because the obstacle is not insurmountable, but it becomes slower 
on account of the greater resistance presented. 

I have been able to convince myself that in the above-mentioned 
experiments the swelling of the muscle presents the same phases as its 
change of length. In fact, I have transmitted to the myograph the mo- 
tion produced by the swelling of the muscle, and have obtained tracings 
xdeutical with the preceding. Finally, wishing to know if the appara- 
tus which I have used would faithfully transmit the different phases of 
the swelling of muscle, I made the following experiment : I applied 
the little drum which had served to obtain the tracings from the 
birds (Fig. 18) to my own biceps muscle, fixing it exactly in place by 
means of a bandage, and put it in communication with the registering 
apparatus. I then made sudden voluntary motions, as similar as I could 
make them to each other, but applied to overcome various forms of re- 
sistance. In one case I lifted a weight ; in another my hand was abso- 
lutely arrested in upward motion by being placed beneath a heavy 
table ; in still another I tied my hand to a fixed object with a rubber 
baud which, by a short flexure of my fore-arm, req aired the utmost 
efforts of the muscle to stretch it. 

Now the tracings Tig. 21. 

which express the] 
swelling of the bi- 
ceps in these three] 
experiments repro- 
duce the three types | 
re])resented in Fig. 
21, and show very 
clearly that volun- 
tary exertions had I 
been subjected to I 
different forms of resistance. I tried to force upon the muscles iden- 
tical motions in each case, which was always a short, vigorous flexure, 
but the nature of the resistance modified these muscular actions which 
Avere intended to be similar to each other, and imparted to them the vari- 
ous phases and durations which are exhibited in the figure. This being 
settled, let us return to the muscular tracing of the great pectoral of 




PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 271 

the bird. I have said that the exact commencemeut of this motion is 
undetermined, the elevator of the wing not having fallen into repose 
before the depressor commences to act, and if we would represent the 
probable curve of the action of these two muscles from that which the 
myrograph obtains for us, it will be necessary for us to complete the 
tracing by means of dotted lines as in Fig. 22. 

Fig. 22. 




Trace of the action of a harrier during fliglat : a, action of the elevating mnscle ; h, of 
the depressing muscle. The dotted lines which descend to the axis of the curve com- 
plete the probable form of the motions of the two nuiscles of the wing. 

Thus reconstructed, the form of the curves of the elevator and de- 
pressor reveals the nature of the resistance which each of these mus- 
cles has encountered. The curve a of the median i^ectoral is that of a 
muscle acting on a weight; it seems to indicate that the inertia of the 
wing is the only obstacle which the elevator muscle has to overcome. 
The curve h shows us a deflection, during part of which the contraction 
of the muscle takes a slower motion ; it is here that the resistance of 
the air is interposed. These things happen, then, exactly as in the 
experiments which I have made upon my own muscles and those of the 
frog. But you may ask why the deflection of the curve is not produced 
sooner ; and if the depressor muscle can rapidly contract for a certain 
period before encountering sufficient resistance from the air to imi)ede 
its motion. This is just what happens ; we have the proof of it in the 
anatomical disposition of the attachments of the great pectoral muscle. 
We shall see hereafter how the motion of the humerus around its articula- 
tion is produced ; at present I will only say that in the first i)art of its 
action the great pectoral in contracting produces a pivot-like motion of 
the wing upon the head of the humerus, and that in this first motion 
the muscle does not experience the resistance of the air which retards 
its contraction an instant later. 

The reader will perhaps consider that an inordiimte number of de- 
ductions are made from the forms of the curves of the muscles ; but 
those who will familiarize themselves with the use of the registering 
apparatus, and in particular with the myograph, will soon be convinced 
that chance does not enter into the formation of the curves, but that the 
details should find their explanation in the dynamic conditions of the 
production of muscular power. 

Motions executed by the icing of a hird during flight. — We have seen, 
in regard to the mechanism of the flight of insects, that the fundamental 
experiment has been that which has shown the trajectory of the point of 
the wing in each of its evolutions. The knowledge of the mechanism of 
flight flows, so to speak, naturally from this first idea. The same deter- 
mination is equally indispensable for the flight of birds, but the optic 



272 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

method is here inapplicable. The motion of a bird's wing, while too 
rapid to be followed by the eye, is not sufficiently rapid to form a 
persistent impression of its entire trajectory upon the retina. The 
graphic method, which I have hitherto employed, only furnishes 
impressions of motions which happen to follow a straight line, and it is 
only by combining this rectilinear movement with the revolving cylinder 
with a smoked surface that the expression of the rapidity with which 
the motion is effected at each instant is obtained. 

The problem is to find the means of registering on an immovable 
plane all the motions which the point of a bird's wing makes in space, 
as if a style had been placed at the end of the winjr, and this style 
traced or rubbed on a piece of paper by its side. It is still further 
necessary to have a figure of the same nature as the luminous figure of 
the gilded wing of an insect, that the piece of paper on which the trace 
is to be made shall remain motionless in regard to the center of motion 
of the wing of the flying bird, or in effect that it shall follow the bird in 
all its phases of impulsion through space. 

Now, physics teach us that all motion susceptible of registration in 
one plane can be generated by the rectangular combination of two 
rectilinear motions. The tracings obtained by Koenig by arming a 
vibrating Wheatstone's rod with a style, the luminous figures of musical 
chords which M. Lissajous has produced by the reflection of a ray of 
light from two vibrating mirrors perpendicular to one another, are well 
known examples of the formation of a plane figure by means of two 
rectilinear movements. Thus, admitting that the motions of elevation 
and depression of the wing can be transmitted at one time, as well as 
the back and forward motions of this organ, by supposing that a writing 
style can simultaneously receive the impulse of these two motions, per- 
pendicular to each other, this point will write on the cylinder the exact 
figure of the motions of the bird's wing. I tried at first to construct an 
apparatus which would thus transmit such a motion to a distance and 
register it, without concerning myself with the way in which I might 
apply this rather weighty mechanism to the bird. 

Fig. 23 represents this provisional apparatus, the description of 
which is indisi)ensable for the comprehension of the second mechanism, 
which I shall describe hereafter. Upon two solid feet, carrying vertical 
supports, are seen two horizontal arms parallel to each other. These are 
two aluminium levers which, by the transmitting apparatus to be 
described, should both execute the same motions. Each of these levers 
is mounted ou a ball-and-socket joint, or double articulation, which 
permits all kinds of motion ; thus each lever can be carried above, 
below, to the right or to the left. It can by its point describe the base 
of a cone of which the joint will be the apex. In fact, it will execute 
any kind of motion which the experi mentor may choose to impart to it. 
It is also necessary to establish the transmission of motion from one 
lever to the other at a distance of ten or fifteen meters. This is done 
by means of a process with which the reader is already fiimiliar — the use 
of drums and air tubes. 

The lever, which is seen at the left in the figure, is fastened by a 
metallic arm articulated at one of its extremities to the membrane of a 
drum placed below it. In the vertical motions of the lever the mem- 
brane of the drum rises or falls by turns, i)roducing a throbbing motion 
of the air in another drum through a long tube, which establishes a 
communication between them. In the apparatus to the right in the 
figure, the second drum is placed above the corresponding lever articu- 
lated -with it, and faithfully transmits all the motions which have been 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 273 

imparted to the first drum to the left. These movements will be in the 
same direction in both levers on account of the inversion of the position 
of the drums. If we depress the first lever it presses down the mem- 
brane of the drum below it, inducing a pressure which lifts the mem- 
brane of the second drum, and consequently lowers the second lever 
conversely; the elevation of the first lever produces an influx of air 
which raises the membrane of the second lever. ' 

Fig. 23. 




Proceeding in the same manner to transmit motions in a horizontal 
plane, I have placed at the right of one of the levers and at the left of 
the other a drum with the membrane in a vertical plane, which imparts 



274 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

lateral motions to these levers. These motions are transmitted by a 
special air-tube, as before. In the apparatus thus constructed, if we 
move the end of one of the levers with the linger, the other lever will 
be seen to execute the same movements with perfect fidelity. The only 
difference consists in a slight diminution of amplitude. This happens 
because the air contained in the tubes and drums is slightly compressed, 
and in consequence does not transmit the whole of the motion which it 
receives. It is easy to remedy this defect, if it be one, by placing the 
ball-and-socket joint a little nearer the point whence the motion is 
transmitted to the second lever. But it is better not to attem])t too 
great amplification, because the friction is thus augmented and the 
force which should overcome it is diminished. 

After having determined that the transmission of such motion can be 
effected in a satisfactory manner by means of this apparatus, I have 
sought for the means of tracing these movements upon a plain surface. 
The difficulty which before presented itself, when I endeavored to ai)ply 
the graphic method to the study of the wing-strokes of insects, again 
appeared, but this time there was no means of eluding it, and 1 con- 
tented myself with partial tracings. The point of the second lever de- 
scribed a spherical figure in space which could not be tangent, except as 
a point, to the smoked surface, which should receive the trace. In conse- 
quence, I should have to register the projection of this figure on the 
plane. Helmholtz had also encountered the same difficulty in the con- 
struction of his myograph, and had solved it by causing the point of 
the writing style to rub continually on the smoked surface b}^ means of 
a weight. But as I could not attach a weight to the extremity of my 
lever, I resolved to the following expedient, shown at the end of the 
lever, in Fig. 24. It is large at 

the base in order to resist all ^^^' ^^ 

lateral deviations from friction; 
this base is fixed on a vertical 
piece of aluminium which is 
attached to the extremity of 
the lever. In this way the 

point of the contrivance, which ....--- 

performs the office of a style, is 
situated exactly opposite the 
end of the lever whose motions 
it registers. If the lever be 
elevated and takes the position 
indicated by the dotted lines in Fig. 24, in traversing this space it has 
described the arc of a circle, and its ^xtremity will be no longer on the 
same plane as before, but the elasticity of the contrivance will have 
carried the point of the style forward, and it will therefore continue to 
be in contact with the plane upon which it is tracing. Thus the lever 
elongates or shortens according as the case requires, and its point con- 
tinually rubs upon the plane. I should add that the surface upon which 
the tracings are received is of finely polished glass, and that the con- 
trivance which I have used is so delicate that the pressure which it 
exercises produces scarcely any friction. 

The apparatus being thus constructed, it must be submitted to verifi- 
cation, to ascertain whether the motions are faithfully transmitted and 
registered. To do this both levers of Fig. 23 are furnished with simi- 
lar styles, placed against the same smoked glass ; and moving one of 
the lev^ers with the hand, for instance, so as to write my name, the 
other lever should reproduce the same signature. It frequently hap- 




Elastic point tracing upon smoked glass. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



275 



pens that the transmission is not equally good in both directions, which 
is perceptible by the deformity of the transmitted figure, which is in- 
creased more or less in height or breadth. This deficiency can always 
be corrected, since it is due to the membrane of one of the drums being 
stretched more than that of the other, and hence yielding less easily to 
pressure. It is very easy to equalize the tension by tightening the mem- 
brane of the other drum until the figure traced by the first lever is 
identical with that traced by the second. 

The modifications by means of which I have rendered this trans- 
mission applicable to the study of the motions of the wing of a flying 
bird, are as follows : 

^ The apparatus 
■^ necessarily being 
5 heavy, it required 
•^ a large bird to carry 
>> it. Stroug adult 
■g harriers served for 
£ the experiments. I 
g fixed a light strip 
of wood upon the 
"^ bird's back, upon 
•^ which the api)ara- 
1 tus was placed, by 
G means of a kind of 
i corset, which left 
1 the wings and feet 
free. That the le- 
ver might faithfully 
execute the same 
motions as the 
bird's wing, the 
joint of the lever 
should be placed 
in contact with the 
humeral articula- 
tion of the harrier. 
^ As the presence of 
S the drums by the 
I side of the lever 
g; does not permit this 
^ immediate contact, 
■z I had recourse to a 
:= parallelogram, 
'$ which transmitted 
^ to the lever of the 
■?, apparatus the 
movements of a 
long arm of which 
the center of mo- 
tion was very close 
to the articulation of the bird's wing. Finally, to obtain an identity of 
motion between the arm and the harrier's wing, I fixed on the bastard 
wing, that is to say, on the metacarpal portion of that organ, a well cut 
screw-vise, furnished with a ring, through which passed the steel arm 
of which I have just spoken. 




276 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



Fig. 25 represents the harrier flying with the apparatus in ques- 
tion ; below hang the transmitting tubes of the registering apparatus. 

After a great many fruitless attempts and changes of construction of 
the apparatus, which, being very fragile, broke at almost every flight of 
the bird, I succeeded in obtaining satisfactory results. During flight 
the registering lever described a kind of ellipse, but I was obliged to 
give up registering this figure upon a stationary glass. The motions 
of the wing differing at dilferent moments of flight, the style did not 
pass over the same points, and I obtained a very confused tracing. I 
then resolved to use a glass moving horizontally at a uniform rate in 
order to obtain an extended figure, which I could afterward submit to 
a geometri^c correction, and thus obtained as it should be, if traced on a 
stationary surface, a figure for each instant of flight. 

Figure 2G represents one of the numerous 
tracings which I have thus obtained. The i3er- 
fect uniformity of these tracings gives me en- 
tire confidence in their correctness. To ana- 
lyze the meaning of this curve, it is necessary w 
to know how the bird flies, how the apparatus ^ 
is arranged, and in what direction the smoked § 
glass moves while receiving the tracing. The g. 
observer being placed opposite the glass, on 5' 
the smoked side, sees it move from the right c^ 
to the left ; between the glass and himself is a ® 
tracing apparatus, with the lever rubbing upon § 
the smoked surface directly in front of him. | 
The bird flying from right to left, in a plane % 
parallel with that of the glass, carries the lever ^' 
of the apparatus on his right wing, so that the a 
respective levers of the two machines are al- *§ 
ways parallel to each other. This being 5' 
known, the tracing should be read from left o 
to right. We have seen that the tracing con- ^ 
sists of a kind of ellipse, which the motion of ® 
the glass extends into a spiral. The move ^. 
ments, more extended at the beginning of (k 
flight, gradually lose a little of their ampli- ^ 
tude, and retain a uniform character for some p 
time. & 

This figure somewhat resembles that which 3 
we obtain from a Wheatstone's rod, according S 
to the unison which traces the ellipse which |. 
its lioint describes upon a surface moving from o 
right to left. Fig. 27, showing the tracing » 
of this rod, admits the comjjarison of the %■ 
two. ^ 

The wing of a harrier thus describes a sort ox 
ellipse, but it is necessary to determine more 
exactly its shape, and to correct the error caused 
by the motion of the glass plate. 

Such a correction is impossible, unless we know the elevation attained 
by the wing at the end of successive and equal intervals of time. This 
once obtained, if we trace parallel horizontal lines representing the 
position of the wing at each of these successive moments, these lines 
will cut the descending curve at points which correspond to the succes- 
sive equal intervals of its course. It is clear that if these successive 





PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 277 

points of the curve have been produced at equal intervals of time, each 
of them, under the influence of the motion of the glass i)late, will have 
a constant deviation toward the right, bearing a stated relation to the 
preceding point. The correction thus consists in carrying: the second 
point back toward the left twice this amount, the third point three times 
Pi„ 27. t^^^ amount, and 

so on. The ascend- 
ing portion of the 
curve should also be 
submitted to this 
correction, and sim- 
lilarly each part of 
the tracing. But it 
i s precisely the 
height which the 
wing attains in the 

different ascending 
Ellipse traced by aWbeatstoue's rod upon a turning cylinder. „^,i (laonpvi(liii o- mn. 

tions of its course which we do not know; bnt this want can be snp- 
plied by the apparatus in the following manner : 

Since the principle of this mechanism is founded upon the transmission 
of two motions, perpendicular to each other, vertical and horizontal, it 
suffices to suppress the transmission of the horizontal motion to obtain 
the curv^e of elevation immediately ; that is to say, the expression of the 
height of the wing at each instant of its course. For this I obstruct the 
tube of lateral transmission, let the bird fly, and obtain the curve of the 
heights of the wing at each moment. 

The correction being made, and Fig. 26 being selected to show the 
course of the point of the wing during one of its evolutions, and pro- 
jected upon a stationary plane, we obtain Fig. 28. 

Fie. 28. ^^^ arrows indicate the direction in which the wing 

moves. 

Is this the form characteristic of all birds ; or is it 
only that of the harrier, in the conditions of flight 
in which it has been placed ? 

The last supposition appears to be the most prob- 
able ; we can see, even while comparing the form of 
the tracmg at different instants of its flight while 
under experiment, that the ellipse is greater and more 
open in the first strokes of the wing than in the last. 
It is, however, necessary to excei)t the second stroke 
of the wing, which has given me a narrower ellipse 
Conrsp in space of the thaii any Other, in all the experiments which I have 
dnVert^froUtL'^nrotion'of made. I do uot know to what this special form is to 
^i^*" ^i'"*^- be attributed, but have thought it worth while to men- 

tion it on account of its constancy. 

Of the rotation of the hiimeriis and the clianges of the plane in the wing 
during flight. — The wing of a bird, like that of an insect, must meet 
with a sufficient resistance from the air in its motion upward and down- 
ward to incline its flexible j^ortion, namely, that which forms the webs 
and coverts. This cause does produce a change of the plane of the 
wing, but there is another even more ijowerful, for it places the wing at 
the outset of the depressing motion in a favorable position for the double 
propulsion which is produced. I refer to the pivot motion which the 
humerus executes around its axis at each contraction of the great pec- 
toral. It is enough to examine the bony crest on Avhich the large tendon 




278 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

of the great pectoral is inserted, and to consider that this crest is situ- 
ated on the anterior edge of the humerus, to comprehend that the action 
of the great pectoral, whose hbers are carried backward and downward, 
should produce a rotary motion of the humerus around its longitudinal 
axis. The conformation of the humeral articulation is perfectly adapted 
to this motion. Finally, the existence of this rotation is rendered still 
more necessary by the resistance which the air presents to the back of 
the wing and opposes to the descent of its feathered portion. We can 
demonstrate the existence of this motion and measure its extent by 
means of the registering apparatus. But I have thought it best to defer 
these researches, especially as they necessitate the construction of spe- 
cial apparatus, which would require numerous experiments, and would 
produce, after all, results of very slight importance. In fact, we are 
enabled to deduce from the attachment of the muscles the nature of 
the motion which they produce, and this deduction is especially easy. 

1 have always sought to verify the existence of this rotary motion of 
the humerus, and to measure its extent, by the application of electricity 
to the muscles of the bird. In the experiment for measuring the static 
power developed by the contraction of the great pectoral muscle, previ- 
ously described, I noticed that at each excitement of this muscle the 
humerus executed a rotary motion upon its axis. I fixed in the humerus 
a rod, perpendicular to its axis, and was enabled, by the angle formed 
by the two positions of this rod, to demonstrate that the rotation in the 
harrier corresponded to an angle of thirty -five or forty degrees. It 
seemed that the limits of this angle were fixed by the attachments of 
the median and great pectoral muscles. If traction be exerted upon 
the two antagonistic muscles of a newly dissected bird, it will be seen 
that the median pectoral raises this member so that its upper face is 
turned somewhat backward. The action of the great pectoral changes 
this position of the wing comjjletely, and carries its upper face strongly 
upward and even a little forward. These expressions, upward and 
downward, are relative to a plane cutting the bird into a dorsal and a 
ventral half; but this plane, doubtless, is not entirely parallel with the 
horizon during flight. But it is certain that the resistance of the air 
should give a much more pronounced deflection to the feathers during 
the more rapid descent of the wing. 

The most diflicult to measure of the influences which change the plane 
of the bird's wing is that which relates to the pressure of the air on the 
feathers. Perhaps it may not be impossible to devise an apparatus 
capable of measuring it, but it so varies with the variations of the 
velocity with which the wing is lowered, that any measurement which 
might be obtained would be only the expression of a particular case. 
It is very probable, on the contrary, that the change of plane due to the 
action of the pectoral muscles is a much more constant phenomenon. 
We can infer the action of the two motions of the bird's wing from what 
has been said of the mechanism of the flight of insects. It is evident 
that the descent of the wing will have the double effect of raising the 
bird and of imparting to it a horizontal motion. As to the ascent of the 
wing, its office cannot be the same, because the imbrication of the 
feathers does not offer a resistant surface to the air. 

Everything tends to show that the ascending wing cuts the air with 
its anterior edge, but, as we shall see, another phenomenon occurs which 
uplifts the body of the bird during the elevation of the wing; this is 
the transformation of the impulse which the bird has acquired during 
the lowering of the wing. This impulse is changed in rising, by a mech- 
anism analogous to that which raises the toy kite. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 279 

In a remarkable study of tbe flight of birds, M. Liais has been led, 
through observation and deduction, to adoi)t this theory, to which the 
experiments about to be described, I trust, will add new j)roofs in its 
favor. 

Before leaving the subject, it is necessary to mention the existence of 
certain other motions in the flight of small birds. I refer to the folding 
and unfolding of the wings. But the existence of these motions does 
not seem to be constant, and the eye cannot perceive the least trace of 
them during the flight of the large birds upon which I have experi- 
mented. I slmll, therefore, omit the study of these motions, and of their 
l^ossible effects, and restrict my conclusions on the mechanism of flight 
to a certain number of determinate species of birds. 

The study of the motions of tlie wings of birds during flight necessa- 
rily inebides the effect produced by each of these movements. We are 
tempted to deduce these efflnjts from the nature of the motions which 
generate them, but it is safer to obtain the solution of this complicated 
problem from experiment. Two distinct effects are produced during 
tiiglit: first, the bird is upheld against the force of gravity ; second, it 
is propelled horizontally. Is the bird in the air sustained at a constant 
elevation, or is it rather subject to oscillations in the vertical plane? 
Does it not exhibit, by the intermittent eflect of the strokes of its wings, a 
series of ascents and descents, the frequency and extent of which can- 
not be observed by the eye "? Is not the bird also subjected to a varia- 
ble velocity in its horizontal course! Does it not receive a jerking 
motion from the action of its wings f These questions can be solved by 
experiment, in the following manner : Since we possess the means by 
which distant motions iiroduced. by pressure exerted upon a drum filled 
with air are made to record themselves, we must seek to connect the 
movements which we would study with a pressm-e of this kind. The 
oscillations which the bird executes in the vertical plane should be made 
to produce alternately strong or feeble pressure on the membrane of the 
drum, according as the bird rises or falls. The same should be done in 
seeking the variations of its horizontal velocity. Supi^ose that a flying 
bird carries upon its back a light metallic drum, like the one already 
described; that the membrane of this drum be turned upw^ard, and that 
this instrument be put in communication with the registering appara- 
tus by means of a long tube. If the membrane of the drum freely par- 
takes of the motions of the bird it will not produce any displacement of 
the air in the apparatus, and the registering lever will remain motion- 
less. But if we prevent the membrane from partaking of all the motions 
of the bird, if we can give it a tendency to remain at rest while the 
drum is moved, motion will be produced in the air with which the drum 
is filled, and the signals will be registered by the lever. Now, we can 
produce this tendency to remain at rest upon the membrane by loading 
it with an inert body, such as a disk of lead. 

Fig. 29 shows the drum with an inert mass upon its membrane. 
This mass is formed of disks of lead, of which a certain number can be 
added or taken off", until the apparatus responds satisfactorily to the 
motions of vertical oscillation imparted to it. In this arrangement the 
movements in the horizontal plane are without influence upon the appa- 
ratus. If the drum is suddenly raised, the inert body, not participat- 
ing in this elevation, dei^resses the membrane exactly as if the mass 
itself had been depressed, and the drum had remained motionless. Con- 
versely, when the drum descends, the inertia of the mass resists the 
motion, as if it or the membrane had been raised and the drum had 
remained motionless. We may remark that the movement of the lever 



280 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



is in the same direction as that of the drum ; that is to say, if the drum 
be raised, the lever also raises itself. It may happen, with an apparatus 
of this kind, that in the motion of the wings rubbing may be produced 
on the membrane of the drum, which will make confusion in the signals. 
To avoid this I cover the upper part of the apparatus with a metallic 







network, as seen in Fig. 29. The drum is there represented in the 
hand, held by the transmitting tube connecting with the registering 
apparatus. If the drum is moved in the vertical plane, the lever is seen 
to move in the same direction, at the same instant of time, and with an 
amplitude proportionate to the motions of the hand. If, on the con- 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 281 

trary, we give the mass a lateral motion, no effect is produced upon the 
lever, and no signal is made. But it may be said that an inert mass 
placed on an elastic membrane tends to execute vibrations peculiar to 
itself, and that the apparatus will transmit these vibrations of the mass 
of lead and the membrane which carries it independently of the oscilla- 
tions of the bird. How shall we get rid of this complication ? The law of 
vibrations teaches us that the duration of the double period of each of 
them varies with the weight of the vibrating body, and with the elastic 
force of the lamina which carries it. The greater the mass, and the 
feebler the elasticity, the longer will be the jjeriod of vibration. !Now, 
the motions which we are studying are rather frequent, some birds 
making eight or ten strokes of the wing per second. If we arrange it so 
that the period of oscillation of the mass of lead itself is much longer 
than that of the bird, we shall no longer be troubled by the complica- 
tion of these interfering motions. By emi)loying a heavier mass and a 
less tense membrane, a good transmission of motions, which are not too 
slow, may be obtained, for instance, such as last less than half a second. 
It is not necessary, either, that the instrument should be applied to the 
study of the oscillations of all species of birds. 

But to make sure of the accuracy of the apparatus it should be veri- 
fied by the method much like that which I have used to correct all my 
apparatus. This consists in making, directly by hand, the tracing of 
the motion which I have imparted to the weighted drum, and observing 
whether the registered motion was the same as the first. 

Experiments made upon different kinds of birds, ducks, harriers, hen- 
hawks, and owls, have shown me that, in relation to the intensity of the 
oscillations in the vertical plane, very varied types of tiight exist. 

Figure 30 shows tracings, furnished by different kinds of birds, upon 
a cylinder turning at a uniform rate, and contrasted with a tracing pro- 
duced by a tuning-fork making 100 vibrations per second. These 
tracings enable us to estimate the absolute and relative duration of the 
oscillations of flight in these different birds. It follows from these 
figures that the frequency and amplitude of the vertical oscillations vary 
a good deal with the kind of bird under consideration. 

To better comprehend the cause of these variations, let us register at 
the same time the vertical oscillations of the bird and the action of the 
muscles of its wing. If we make this double experiment upon two birds, 
differing in their manner of flying, such as the wild duck and the har- 
rier, the tracings represented by Fig. 31 will be obtained. 

The duck presents two energetic oscillations at each revolution of its 
wing ; the one at b, at the moment when the wing relaxes, is easily 
understood ; the other, at a, at the moment when the wing rises. To 
explain the ascension of the bird, during the time of elevation of the 
wing, it seems to me indispensable to call in the action of the boy's kite, 
previously alluded to. The bird, moving forward with acquired velocity, 
presents its wings to the air in an inclined position, similar to that of 
the kite, and thus transforms its horizontal force into an ascending one. 

The flight of the harrier presents the ascension which accompanies the 
elevation of the wing, in a smaller degree. May not the cause of this 
difference be recognized as a smaller relative inclination of the wing 
toward the horizon ? 

Determination of the different phases of the evolution of the wing, to tchich 
the vertical oscillations correspond. — The interpretation of these curves 
throws light at once upon the experiments made on the variations of the 
transformation of velocity in the bird, at different moments, during 
the evolution of the wing. 



282 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

Fior. 32, 




Fig, 30. Line 1, Chronographic trace of a tnning-fork, vibrating 100 times a second; 
2. Vertical oscillations of the wild duck during flight. 3. OaciUatioua of the hen-hawk. 
4, Of tlie screech-owl; and 5, of the harrier. 

Fig. 32. Simultaneous tracing of both kinds of oscillations executed by a harrier 
during flight. 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 283 

But, before going further, we may remark that the precediug experi 
ment furnishes a very precious lesson in the theory of flight. In foct, if 
the bird executes a series of ascents and descents, the duration of the 
descending i^eriod will approximately inform us of the amount of the 
positive work which the bird must perform to rise again to the height 
from which it fell, and we see that the duck, which makes nine vibra- 
tions of the wing per second, executes two vertical oscillations during 

Fig. 31. 




In tlie upper half is seen superposed the muscular tracing, and that of the vertical 
oscillations iu a wild duck. Below the undulation a, which indicates the elevation of 
ihe wing, is seen a vertical oscillation; and another, below b, which indicates the low- 
ering of the wing. In the lower portion are the same tracings obtained from a harrier; 
here the oscillation at a, which corresponds to the elevation of the wing, is less marked 
than in the duck. 

each vibration, or eighteen in a second. Each oscillation is composed 
of a rise and fall, so that each descent of the bird cannot last more than 
one thirty-sixth of a second. Now, if we substract the effect [)roduced 
(as in a parachute) by the outspread wings of the bird, we find that a 
body which falls during one thirty-sixth of a second traverses onlylifty- 
two millimeters. This fall repeated eighteen times a second constitutes 
a total rise of 9.3G centimeters, necessary to maintain the bird iu the 
same horizontal plane during one second. 

In the tracing of the harrier, the descents are less than in the wild 
duck, probably on account of the large surface of the wings of this bird. 

Determination of the variations of the rapidity of flight. — Tlie second 
question to be solved relates to the determination of the various phases 
of rapidity of flight. The solution can be found iu the following man- 
ner : If the weighted drum be placed upon the bird's back in a A'ertical 
plane perpendicular to the direction of flight, it will be insensible to 
vertical oscillations, and will only indicate those of forward and back- 
ward; also, by turning the membrane of the drum forward it is clear 
that if the advance of the bird is accelerated, the retardation of the 
weight on the translation of the annaratus will produce a crowding of 
the air in the second drum, and a, c' ele\4t^ion of tUft registering lever, 
while a relaxation of the etibrt of tL'e bird will bring about a descent of 



284 PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

the registering lever. Experiments upon the kinds of birds previously 
mentioned furnish tracings analogous to those of the vertical oscilla- 
tions. If it is true, as I suppose, that the vertical oscillation of the 
bird at the moment of raising the wing be due to the upward trans- 
formation of velocity, by obtaining, simultaneously, the tracing of the 
vertical oscillations and those of the variations of velocity, we shall 
have the means of confirming this theory. When obtaining at one 
time the two kinds of oscillations in the flight of a harrier, I have seen 
that the phase of descent of the wing resulted both in the elevation ot 
the bird and the acceleration of its speed. This effect is the necessary 
consequence of the inclination of the plaue of the wing at the moment 
of its descent, as we have previously shown in the flight of insects. As 
for the phase of elevation of the wing, it is proved that during the 
slight ascension which it produces the speed of the bird is diminished. 
In fact, the curve of the variations of rapidity falls as soon as the bird 
begins to rise. This i«, then, a confirmation of the previously suggested 
theory of the upward transformation of the speed of birds. Thus by 
this mechanism the descending stroke of the wing creates the force 
which produces the two oscillations of the bird in the vertical plane. 
The downward stroke directly produces the ascent which is synchro- 
nous with it, and indirectly by creating the velocity which prepares for 
the second vertical oscillation. 

Simultaneous tracing of the tico Mnds of oscillation of the bird. — Instead 
of representing each kind of oscillation separately, I have thought that 
it would be more instructive to obtain a single line which, by its curves, 
should represent both of the movements which the body of the bird 
executes in its course through space. The method which has been used 
to obtain the curve of the point of the wing, with some modifications can 
be made to furnish a simultaneous tracing of both kinds of motion. 
For this both drums must be connected with the same inert mass, and 
placed at right angles to each other. Turning back to Fig. 23, which 
shows the two levers connected by tubes which transmit to the one all 
the motions executed by the other, when any motion is imparted to the 
first lever, the second lever reproduces the same motion in the same 
direction. Now, let us charge one of the levers with a mass of lead, 
and, taking the support of the apparatus in the hand, make it describe 
some motion in a ]ilane perpendicular to the direction of the lever. We 
see that the lever No. 2 executes directly opposite movements. In 
fact, since the motive force which acts on the membranes of the drums 
is simply the inertia of the mass of lead, and since this mass is always 
behind the motion given to the apparatus, it is clear that if the whole 
be raised the mass will keep the lever down ; if the whole be lowered, 
the mass will raise the lever ; if it be carried forward, the mass will hold 
back the lever, &g. Now, the second lever, executing the same motions 
as the first, will give curves which are directly the opposite of the mo- 
tion which has been given to the support of the apparatus. This being 
settled, now for the experiment : For this I take the apparatus repre- 
sented on the back of the harrier in Fig. 25 ; I remove the rod which 
receives the motion of the wing, and the parallelogram which transmits 
it to the lever. I keep only the lever connected with the two drums and 
the mounting which attaches it to the bird's back. I fix a mass of lead 
on this lever and let the animal fly. The tracing obtained is repre- 
sented by Fig. 32. 

The analysis of this curve is at fir^^^sight extremely difficult. I hope, 
aowever, to suceecd i" showing its signification. It is traced on the 
cylinder under the same conditions as Fig. 2G, showing the different 



PHENOMENA OF FLIGHT IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 285 

motions of the point of the wing. The glass plate moves from the right 
to the left 5 the tracing is read from left to right. The head of the 
bird is toward the left ; this flight is in the direction of the aiTOw. 
We can divide this figure by vertical lines i^assiug through homologous 
points, cutting it either at the top of the loops or at the summit of the 
simple curves, as represented at the points a and e. Each of these divi- 
sions incloses similar elements, although their development is unequal in 
different parts of the figure. For the present we shall neglect these 
details. 

It is evident that the periodical return of similar forms corresponds 
to a return of the same phases in an evolution of the bird's wing. Tlie 
division a e thus represents the different motions of the bird during an 
alar evolution. 

Let us recollect that in the curve which we are analyzing all the mo- 
tions are the reverse of those which the bird really executes. The two 
vertical oscillations, the great and the small, should then be represented 
by two downward curves. It is easy to recognize them in the great 
curve ah c and the small curve c d e. Thus tbe bird rises from a to &, falls 
from h to c, again rises from c to f/, and re-descends from d to e; but these 
oscillations encroach on each other, producing the loop c d. The oscilla- 
tion cde partly covers the first anteriorly. This is a proof that the indica- 
tions of the curve are the reverse of the true motion ; for, at this 
moment, the bird recedes, or, at least, relaxes its course. As the appa- 
ratus is only sensible of changes of velocity, it is clear that the tracing 
does not take the uniform rapidity of the bird into account, but indi 
cates acceleration as a forward movement and retardation as a retro- 
grade movement. This figure, then, sums up all the preceding experi- 
ments which we have made on the motions of the bird in space. It is 
here seen that the bird at each evolution of its wings rises and falls 
twice, successively; that these oscillations are imequal ,• the larger, as 
we know, corresponding to the depression of the wing, the smaller to 
its elevation. It is also seen that the ascent of the bird during the 
raising of the -svings is accompanied by a retardation of its speed, which 
justifies the theory by which this ascent has been considered as made 
at the expense of the bird's acquired velocity. But this is not all ; this 
curve also shows us that the motions of the bird are not the same at 
the beginning and end of flight. We have seen already (Fig. 20) 
that the first strokes are more extended than the others ; we now see 
that at first — that is, at the left of the figure — the oscillations produced 
by the descent of the wing are also more extended. But theory fore- 
told that the oscillation of the elevation of the wing being derived from 
the acquired speed of the bird should be very feeble at the beginning 
of flight when the animal has acquired but little impetus. The figure 
shows us that this does happen, and that at the beginning of flight the 
second oscillation (which forms the loop) is very insignificant. 

At last, then, we are in possession of the i^rincipal facts upon which 
the study of the mechanical power developed by the bird during flight 
can be established, and we see that it is during the descent of the wing 
that the entire motive force which sustains and directs the bird in space 
is created. 



THE NORTHERN SEAS. 



By M. Babinet, of the Academy of Sciences. 



[Traiislated for the Smithsonian Institiifion.'] 

Thanks to modern voyages, i^articularly since the many and praise- 
worthy expeditions in search of Sir John Franldin, we have to-day the 
assurance that the arctic pole is surrounded by a narrow and continu- 
ous sea, bounded on one side by the eternally congealed polar space, 
and on the other b}' Northern Europe, Siberia, or Northern Asia, and 
lastly all of America in the higher latitudes. A navigator starting from 
Dunkirk, on the meridian of Paris, might proceed straight to the pole 
without encountering land, but stopped by the never melted barrier of 
ice ; if he turned to the right toward the east, he would leave to the left 
and north Spitzbergen, and to the left and south, North Cape. Passing 
over the White Sea, he would leave the Polar Sea of Europe at Nova 
Zembla ; then coasting along Siberia, he would come into the somewhat 
less contracted basin beyond Behring's Strait. Then passing along 
Northern America, and descending considerably in latitude, he would 
at last arrive at Lancaster Sound, through which the American Polar 
Sea empties into the great canal, separating Greenland from the New 
World. There the navigator would be obliged to descend greatly to- 
ward the south, in order to attain the point of Greenland, after having 
traversed almost the entire polar circle. After passing through Davis 
Strait he would enter the basin between Europe and America, termi- 
nating the northern Atlantic, which has for its limits Labrador, New- 
foundland, Great Brii:ain, Norway, the polar circle, Iceland, and lastly 
Cape Farewell, at the extremity of Greenland. This northern basin of 
the Atlantic, which communicates at the east and west with the glacial 
seas, has for companion and analogue the northern part of the Pacific 
Ocean, enclosed by Kamtchatka, Behring's Strait, Russian and 
British America. It is not fully determined whether the Pacific sends 
through Behring's Strait a current of temperate water into the 
American glacial sea, as the Atlantic does to the glacial sea of the Old 
World, through the passage separating Cape North from Spitzbergen. 
As to the existence of a current, following the course we have just 
described as pursued by the imaginary navigator, compassing the 
polar regions and moving always to the east, it is an undoubted fact, it 
seems to me, and at the seasons when the maritime regions traversed 
by this current are frozen, it nevertheless continues its course under the 
ice. It should be observed that a similar current flows from the west 
toward the east, making the circuit of the other pole of the earth ; but 
as the domain of the latter consists entirely of shoreless seas, it follows 
its course without interriTption toward the east, and accomplishes its 
revolution without change of distance from the pole, its direction un- 
altered by projections of land, like that of Greenland, which greatly 
complicate the mechanical circumstances, and modify tlie course of the 
two great oceanic rivers (an expression of Homer) which I have added 
to the five great currents noticed in the admirable work of M. Dupeny of 



THE NORTHEEN SEAS. 287 

our institute, nud confirmed by the map of M. Findlny, published in 
England in the Journal of the Koyal Geographioal Society. 

The northern basin of tlie Atlantic is, as I have just said, entirely 
analogons to the northern basin of the Pacific. The whale, the seal, the 
porpoise, and fisheries in general, attract the same European and 
American navigators. The warm currents, ascending from the ecjuator, 
produce upon the eastern and western shores of each the same climate 
and the same vegetation. 

Upper California and Oregon rival Western Europe, and when the 
hardy settlers of the Anglo-Saxon race have peopled the more northern 
shore of the Pacific basin, it will equal the J^orwegian coast, where, 
according to Horace, 

Ubi Scandia dives 



Halecas totura mittit piscosa per orbem. 

" Where rich Scandinavia catches herring for the whole world." One of 
our statesmen has predicted that here will be the seat of civilization in 
1957. 

M. Arago has often said, quoting Napoleon I, that the most powerful 
of all rhetorical figures is repetition. I therefore repeat what I have 
written betbre, that the superiority of northern climates over those of 
the south is due to the fact, that almost all the temperate water of the 
great warm current of the equatorial region ascends to the north, as in 
the Atlantic, by the Gulf Stream, giving to Norway the rich culture which 
was the admiration of the observers of La Peine Hortense in 185G, and to 
Oregon the giants of the vegetable world, trees of 100 metres (330 feet) in 
height. Look at the map of M. Duperrey, who has discovered one of the 
three currents which carry the warm water of the equator to the south. 
Observe those three currents, that of the Indian Ocean, the South Pa- 
cific, and Australia ; mark the small amount of w ater carried by them 
only a short distance from the equator toward the antarctic pole, while 
the two great and powerful currents of the Atlantic and of the northern 
Pacific take from the ecjuator even almost the entire mass of water of 
ihe warm current encircling the intertropical world, to transport it to 
latitudes in our hemisphere equal or superior to those of the north of 
Scotland. 

Notwithstanding the contents of many original memoirs ui)on the 
question of the excess of temperature of the northern over the southern 
hemisphere, what a display the world of compilers still make of worn- 
out lumber, of superannuated opinions, relative to the causes which 
render our latitudes immensely superior in climate to those of the south. 
We complain of the inadequacy of literary criticism in our day, but 
what may not be said of scientific criticism, when we see the finest minds 
led by the best accredited works, in ignorance of the actual state of 
science, to repeat the echoes of the meteorological data of 1800 ! 

These preliminary remarks were necessary to show the importance of 
all investigations made, or to be made, in the northern basin of the At- 
lantic. The fishers of the Scandinavian shores, and the whaling expe- 
ditions to Newfoundland, and the seas separating Greenland from 
America, follow routes so uniform, and deviate so little from the line 
leading directly to the scene of their labors, that one is surprised at the 
incompleteness of the records of their frequent passages. They work for 
money, not for science ; the field is therefore open to more disinterested 
explorers, and it is astonishing how much more information may be ob- 
tained from a single expedition of an intelligent tourist, than from the 
periodical emigration and return of the seamen of commercial Europe. 



288 THE NORTHERN SEAS. 

The short voyage of Prince Napoleon stands first perhaps in importance 
for facts collected on our polar seas. Claude has said that not to be born 
a kinji' is to be a fool. It is at least a great mistake for an explorer not 
to be a prince. The working force, intellectual and personal, of the great 
astronomical observatories isspoken of as thatof a fall of wateror a steam- 
engine ; may we not in a like manner calculate how many facts, observa- 
tions, drawings, and specimens of all kinds could be collected in a short 
time by an intelligent leader, with a select corps of seamen and scientists, 
aided by every desirable means and commanding circumstances, rather 
than being controlled by them ? An immense volume of eight hundred 
l)ages in which there is nothing superfluous, scarcely suffices to contain 
tlie results of the rapid excursion of 1850. The archeological, descrip- 
tive, political and economical parts of the observations find no place in 
this volume, although they should have been included in its records. If 
to this already very voluminous record could be added an accurate de- 
scription of the rich collections brought back by the expedition, a num- 
ber of curious facts might still be drained from it, and valuable samples 
given of the harvests ready to be reaped by local collectors or future 
travelers. 

The i)ublication describing the expedition of La Reine Hortense to 
•the noithern seas is divided into two distinct parts. The first consists 
of a rapid and sprightly narration of the events of the voyage from the 
oil mines of England to the country of Scottish clans; then to Iceland, 
Jan Mayen and Si)ifzbergen, to Greenland, the Faroe and Shetland Is- 
lands, and lastly to the Scandinavian shores. A distance of twelve thou- 
sand miles, accomplished in three or four months, is reviewed by the 
reader in six hundred pages. Then follow some scientific notices, in small 
text, Avhich I think may be considered very valuable acquisitions to the 
knowledge of the globe. The nautical record of M. Du Buissou, and the 
geological reports of MM. Chaucourtois and Ferri-Pisqani, are especially 
remarkable for the number and interest of the scientific observations 
they contain. I observe with pleasure that the last mentioned of the 
three authors named has not fallen short of the estimate I formed of his 
capacity, as we discussed together the future labors of the expedition, 
and when he was not yet before the public. With the mention of MM. 
De La Ronciere, Laroche-Poncie, and others who have not contributed to 
this volume, but whose observations are not less valuable than those of 
the authors of the scientific notices, it is evident that with a minimum 
of time the members of this expedition have accomplished a maximum 
of useful labor. It is a matter of regret that an especial article, among 
these excellent notices, had not been devoted to the magnetical observa- 
tions, but they undoubtedly will be publighed hereafter. It is hardly neces- 
sary to say, that I will adhere to these scientific notices in what I am 
about to say concerning the voyage of La Reine Hortense in the north- 
ern seas, and two English publications relative to those regions. 

In regard to the currents of the ocean, several facts i)reviously indi- 
cated have been confirmed by this expedition, but in a question so com- 
plicated and so debated very definite information is required. We see 
the warm current leave America, pass below Newfoundland, and arrive 
at Norway, after coasting along the south of Ireland, and passing through 
the groups of the Faroe and Shetland Islands. This benevolent dispen- 
sation of the tropical seas then proceeds northward, and at the latitude 
of Upper Scandinavia divides into two parts. One half we shall not fol- 
low far ; it passes into the glacial seas of Europe and Siberia, of which 
it somewhat modifies the climate. The other ascends, or did ascend two 
centuries ago, to Spitzbergen, and renders that region habitable by bears, 



THE NOETHERN SEAS. 289 

seals, porpoises, and whales; then this part of the Gulf Stream turns to 
the left, descends toward Jan Mayen aod Iceland, and passes between 
the latter island and the eastern shore of Greenland. By this return 
current lloating wood is carried from the Gulf of Mexico and stranded 
ui)on the northern shore of Iceland ; a deserted ship seen twice by the 
expedition proved its direction and rapidity, which coasting- alon.y' the 
eastern shore of Greenland it also brings to Iceland large fields of ice, de- 
tached from the belt which renders the island of Jan Mayen inaccessible, 
and perhaps extends to Spitzbergen. This gloomy bordering- of ice, which 
l^revents the mariner from approaching- the shore to which it adheres, is 
called " fast" or land ice, the debris broken oft" by the waves or by storms 
forms the field ice; which is generally not very thick, and the salt wa- 
ter of winch it is composed loses somewhat of its saline properties 
in solidifying-. The icebergs have an entirely different origin, thej' are 
the offspring- of the glaciers, and are exclusively formed of fresh water. 
They are often several hundred feet in height, only about an eighth of 
which appears above the surlace of the water some of them are almost a 
thousand feet in diameter and are the most formidable moving- masses 
to be found in nature. These flotillas of ice mountains are principally 
encountered in the arm of the sea separating Greenland from America. 
They descend with the current which glasses through Davis Strait, and 
are sunk so deeply into the sea that very often they are carried by the 
current against the wind. It is a singular spectacle to see the berg ad- 
vance contrary to the superficial current produced by the action of the 
wind, which the English call the " drift." There is a kind of eddy, formed 
by the current descending Davis Strait, which eddy or connter-curreni 
ascends northward along the west coast of Greenland, and here may be 
seen many of these floating mountains whirling about. It may readily 
be conceived that these enormous masses, borne southward bj' the cur- 
rent, would not melt before reaching- the route pursued by the transat 
lantic steamers between Xew York and England. They are the terror ol 
captains and passengers. A. sailor is constantly on the watch, and at 
regular intervals calls out to the captain " No icebergs, sir." The loss 
of many large vessels, which have suddenly disappeared, with no indi- 
cation of a storm at the time, has been justly attributed to these float 
ing rocks, which no marine chart can record. It is a difficult matter to 
sail clear of an iceberg in foggy weather. From the observations taken by 
the expedition of La Eeine Hortense, relative to the course of the desert- 
ed vessel, which floated round the southern point of Greenland, and was 
stranded in one of the bays on the west coast of that country, followiug 
the eddy formed by the current from Davis Strait, I should judge that 
M. Duperrey and 31. Finlay carry the Gulf Stieam too t;ir below Iceland, 
extending too much the counter-current between that island and Green- 
land, for according to their charts the disabled vessel descended south- 
ward entirely out of the latitudes of the land ice, near which it was first 
seen. 

If you were to open the memoir of Dr. Eink, of Copenhagen, page 115 
of the twenty-third volume of the Eojal Geographical Society, you would 
see there represented frozen rivers emptying- into the sea, deep valleys 
filled with ice, like our Alpine glaciers. When these masses of ice, im- 
lielled by an irresistible force, which causes them to flow like ductile 
metal, are no longer sustained by the laud and project out into the sea, 
they break off with a loud noise and thus nature forms her icebergs. 
One of these fragments, says Dr. Eink, if stranded on the shore would 
form a mountain over a hundred feet high. The explorers of La Eeine 
Hortense saw some three times the height of Mount Valerien above the 
19 s 



290 THE NORTHERN SEAS. 

Seine. Imagine tliat mountain, seen in perspective by tlie gay promen- 
aders of the liois do Boulogne, a mass of liard and compact ice, and some 
faint conception may be formed of these floating giants, which descend 
Davis Strait toward Newfoundland and the United States. I say this ice 
is hard and compact. La Eeiue Hortense tried cannon balls upon some 
of the impudent little bergs, which paraded before her, without in the 
least disturbing their promenade. Just as in ghostly legends a spectre, 
shot through the heart, says coolly to his trembling auta|;onist "Fire 
away." 

The expedition set the good example of throwing into the sea blocks 
of wood, w ith a hole in them, containing a vial with a paper inclosed, 
on which was recorded the date and the geographical position of the 
place where the bottle was dropped. Several of these indicators have 
been picked up and transmitted to the French admiralty, with the date 
and place of their landing. To test the current flowing toward the east 
and passing along Siberia, a number of these bottles should be thrown 
into the strait which, eastward of the White Sea, divides the continent 
from Nova Zembla, and they will reappear in Behring's Strait, w^here it 
has been said whales have been caught still carrying the harpoons with 
which they had been pierced in the Spitzbergen Seas. 

The expedition has proved by unanimous testimony the deterioration 
of the climate of Greenland, Iceland, and Spitzbergen. In Greenland, 
at a short distance from the shore', there is now only one immense 
glacier, like those of the Alps. Mountains and valleys have disappeared 
under the level of snow and ice, and the astronomers of Mars and 
Venus, who draw or photograph our i)lanet, must be astonished by this 
superabundance of arctic snow, which never melts, even when that of 
Russia, Siberia, and Canada has disappeared in the rays of the summer 
sun. 

The " fast" ice which to-day surrounds the island of Jan Mayen, half 
way between Iceland and Spitzbergen, renders inaccessible the east 
coast of Greenland, and sometimes extends to the north coast of Ice- 
land, a circumstance which never happened in former times. Whalers 
no longer go to Spitzbergen, whose seas are as depopulated as its plains, 
where "the snow has ceased to melt. What is the cause of an effect so 
disastrous, which threatens at some future time, more or less remote, 
to drive from Iceland the starving population of about sixty thousand 
inhabitants, which it feeds to-day, or rather does not feed, since it is by 
lisliing that the Icelanders mostly obtain the insuflicient nutriment by 
which they are barely sustained, even with the assistance of the Danish 
government ! If the fast ice should inclose Iceland, as it has the island 
of Jan Mayen, what would become of the Icelanders ? 

Hypotheses have not been wanting to explain this deterioration of the 
climate of Greenland, now buried under a compact mass of ice and 
snow, fifteen or sixteen hundred feet in depth. It has been generally 
observed that the shores of the Baltic, of Scandinavia, Iceland, and 
Greenland, are rising. In one of the bays of the latter country, the ex- 
pedition found water- worn pebbles at an elevation never attained by 
the present sea. The ancient banks of the Norwegian shore are in some 
localities three hundred feet high. It has been supposed that the rising 
of the bottom of the sea may have arrested the ice descending from the 
north, and caused the present accumulation between Iceland and Green- 
land. This hypothesis, I think, is not admissible. The belt of ice bor- 
dering Greenland does not, in the least, resemble the masses of ice wiiich 
the winds and currents sometimes accumulate in the gulfs of the jwlar 
Beas. I think the true cause of the deterioration of the climate of the 



THE NORTHERN SEA8. 291 

Atlantic polar seas is the diminution of the Gulf Stream, the rising of 
the bottom of the sea, giving less depth to the bed of the current, tends 
to lessen it. Formerly the temi)erate water ascended to Spitzbergen, 
giving life to the cetacea, birds, and quadrupeds of its rugged iieaks, 
and then descended toward Iceland. This circidation of warm water, 
I say, being diminished, no longer compensates, as in former times, for 
a too close proximity to the pole, and the climate of this entire basin 
has in consequence deteriorated. We may boldly afitirm that the cur- 
rent passing around North Cape is lessening, audit it were sounded with 
a thermometer, as did M. De Laroche-Poncie a few years ago, it would 
be found to lose every ten years in heat, consequently the shores of the 
White Sea must uudergo a similar decrease of temperature. iSTothing 
has ever been done seriously and in concert to make us acquainted with 
our world meteorologically. Should an inhabitant of the moon — a Lu 
nite, did any such exist — be transported to us here below, wo could tell 
him the distance from ])oint to point in the moon ; the height of its 
mountains, ihe form of its craters, the clefts in its soil, the undulation 
of its plains, the level of its plateaux, the flow of its streams of volcanic 
lava, and even the effect of the solar heat during its semi-montbly nights 
and days. But, unhappily, if he wished the inhabitant of the earth — 
this magician who knew so much about the moon — to enlighten him in 
regard to physical geography, he would be greatly surprised to hear his 
learned man respond to almost every question, "1 do not know." Tiie 
Lunite would form a poor opinion of a people who, while confessing the 
importance, knows so little of the causes of the meteorological changes 
controlling the fertility and the j)roductious of the soil, upon which de- 
l^ends the material subsistence of the human race. 

Le Eeine Hortense records this imx)ortant observation: In 185G the 
wind in the latitude of 50° or G0° blew constantly from the east, while 
in the preceding years the contrary was the case. It was the relapse of 
the current which caused such great inundations in France in 1850, and 
the return of the wind to its normal direction restored to the seasons of 
Europe their natural course. The prediction for 1857 which I drew from 
these tacts was accomplished; but although I boldly announced it in 
August in au address before a formal session of the live academies, I must 
confess I am nuich more confident now than I was then in the acuteness 
of my conjecture. My confreres, the astrologers, may be encouraged to 
predict at raudom. If they make mistakes their blunders will be over- 
looked, while at a successful guess the world will cry, "a miracle!" In 
1840 I foretold a rainy winter, on account of the position of the whales 
off the bank of Newfoundland. My prediction was verified and highly 
honored; but when from some other circumstances I made a prophecy 
concerning the following season, meteorology gave me the lie direct. 
When to the congratulations upon my sagacity in regard to 1810, I 
opposed my mistake for 1847, nobody remembered that checkmate. The 
human mind seems to be such a friend of error, that when it is not indi- 
vidually deceived, it is enchanted if some one will take the trouble to 
delude it. 

As to the question whether the regions under discussion will continue 
to degenerate, or whether an unfavorable period nmy not be followed l>y 
a favorable one, I answer there is very little hope of the latter; and here 
are my reasons for such an opinion : In attributing to the rising of the 
bottom of the Icelandic Sea, the diminution of the warm current by 
which France and England profit, as they receive a larger share of the 
temperate water of the Gulf Stream, the question arises whether this 
risuig will cease or continue. Now, it is to be presumed that if the cause 



202 THE NORTHERN SEAS, 

■vvliicli at the commeucemeut of the present order of nature condemned 
to sterility Scandinavia, Iceland, Greenland, and tlie western coast of 
Europe, still preserves a residue of action; that tlie effect of sucli a ca- 
tastrophe should be very slowly completed, is in accordance with the 
mechanical law controlling the interaction of lioxible bodies — and there 
are no other in nature. Place a weight upon the end of a spring and 
the latter will be bent to a certain extent, but leave the weight upon 
it and still more flexion will be added to the effect already obtained. 
Notwithstanding assertions to the contrary, I maintain that along the 
coast of France the continent from century to century is slowly rising, 
and that the ocean in consequence seems to retire. 

The rich collection brought back by Prince l!viapoleon, and exhibited 
for several months in the Palais Royal, offers a useful hint to observers 
in general. The specimens from England, from the Faroe Islands, from 
Greenland, and even those from Norway, were arranged separately. If 
a list of the minerals which are found at each place had been added, the 
representation of each locality would have beeu complete. The light 
shed by this short and rapid voyage on every point w^ould, of course, be 
greatly increased by local observers stationed along the route traced. 
Science, however, is thankful for any addition, however small, to her ac- 
quirements. It is a mathematical axiom, "that there is something more 
valuable than a thousand pieces of gold — that is, a thousand and one 
pieces of gold." 

The physical constitution of Iceland and of Greenland, in the pul.>li(;a- 
tion under consideration, is discussed in two short articles from master 
hands. I see nothing in them to dispute, aud I may say, nothing to be 
added, in spite of the axiom just repeated. Honor be rendered for them 
to MM. Ferri-Pisaui and Cliancourtois, both of our polytechnic school. 
In regard to the ice of Greenland I must remark upon the mournful 
condition of a land invaded by snow which is perpetual, or which melts 
only during a very small part of the year. The heat of the sun iu sum- 
mer cannot affect the soil, since its action is absorbed in melting the 
stratum of frozen water ; and in the cold season, on the contrary, the snow 
and ice decreasing indefinitely iu temperature, take away from the soil 
even the small amount of heat it may have retained. Thus, for example, 
in the Auvergne Mountains I have found places w here the ground was 
perpetually frozen even when free from snow. The small streams of 
water just under the soil were at a temperature about zero, and at a 
certain depth they were even colder. Thus, also, during th e constant night 
of an arctic winter the ice which covers the unfortunate country of 
Greenland, decreasing constantly in temperature, transmits its coldness 
to the adjacent soil ; whereas in melting under the oblique and feeble 
rays of the summer sun, its temperature never rises above zero, and the 
soil therefore receives no heat above zero, while the cold which has been 
transmitted to it may have been fifty or sixty degrees below that of the 
melting ice. Surround a thermometer w4th ice and place it alternately 
for an hour iu a place twenty degrees above and then in a place twenty 
degrees below zero, and you will find the mean will be below zero. The 
experiment may be made more conveniently with wax, spermaceti, or a 
steariue candle, and by the selection of two places, one above and the 
other below the melting point of the substance employed. If a naked 
bulb thermometer is used, the two effects will be exactly counter- 
balanced. 

The action of the interior of the earth upon its exterior envelope — a 
fact fully established by Humboldt — is brought into full light by the geo- 
logical notices of the voyage. If we add to the igneoits fluid, the exist- 



THE NORTHERN SEAS. 293 

ence of wliicli is admittecl by all the world, tlie circumataiiee indicated by 
Laplace, namely, that the interior fluid below the lava upon which lloats 
the continents is in a state of an elastic liqnid, that it is a kind of com- 
pact gas, having for measure of its immense elasticity at the center the 
weight of half the tliick?u\ss of the globe, all mechanical difficulties disap- 
l^ear. The erosive action of steam and of gases is admirably treated in 
these notices of the voyage. As to the supposition formerly entertained, 
that steam might have raised the beds of continents, this could only have 
taken place when the thickness of the solidified crust was ecpiivalent in 
weight to fourteen or fifteen hundred atmospheres; that is to say, to the 
luaxinuuu tension of steam. So that when the solid enveloix^ was more 
than six kilometres (4 miles) in depth it could no longer be ruptured by 
the subterranean steam. We now know that this envelope is more than 
fifty or sixty feet in thickness. I have recently received from the royal 
astronomer of Scotland, Mr. Piazzi Smith, son of the admiral who has 
rendered that name so illustrious, a series of admirable photographs of 
the lava of the peak of Tenerifte. We still seem to see here in these 
excoriated masses the effect of the corrosive gases driven out by the 
laboratory of volcanic action, through the Assures formed by the trem- 
bling of the earth. In relation to these terrestrial convulsions, produced 
by chemical action, we involuntarily recall the death of Pliny, suffocated 
in the dense gaseous eruption of Vesuvius, in the first century of our 
era. 

I leave with regret the picture of the primeval world given in one of 
the scientific notices. If this excellent article were developed it would 
make two fine volumes. The technical words, even, are rendered intel- 
ligible. It shows us the earth progressing in form in j)roportion as it 
cools, and pictures the ulterior forms of things. 

Et rerum i)aulatiui siimere foruias. 

It contains a representation — a very good one, I should think — of the 
mode of action of the great geyser of Iceland, so closely observed l)y M, 
Descloizeaux, which from time to time hurls into the air a column of 
boiling water equal in diameter to the orifice of the pits of a large mine, 
and in height to the towers of Notre Dame. Banks and Solander cooked 
their fish in it. The merry band of Prince I^a[)oleon, sobered no doubt by 
a ride of several hours on the gallop in the ram, followed by a bivouac in 
damp clothing, with the exception of a punch made of the boiling water, 
indulged in none of the eccentricities suggested by solemn British 
phlegm. Our Frenchmen found at the geyser a tourist, a young Lord 
Dufferin, with his tent, who had been waiting several days for one of 
the paroxysms of the volcanic well. It seems the arrival of our travelers 
decided the geyser; the fountain of boiling water shot up into the air 
higher than could be measured by the eyes of the spectators, who were 
stationed too near. The drawing of this beautiful phenomenon em- 
bellished the public exhibition in the Palais lioyal. "Can it be cor- 
rect!" asked the visitors, who examined this accurate crayon sketch. 
In specifying what a geyser is, according to the theory Avhich Captain 
Perri-Pisani oflers in regard to this volcanic eruption, I cannot do better 
than compare it to an enormous manoscope of water, above the boiling- 
point, when hurled into the air by the subterranean steam produced by 
the volcanic fires. Hapi)ily it falls directly back into the tube froni 
whence it was momentarily expelled. After this excursion a bill of 220 
francs had to be paid for the grass eaten by the hundred horses of the 
cavalcade. Grass is very rare and very dear in Iceland. But I must 
confine myself to scientific facts. 



294 THE NOKTHERN SEAS. 

Ill comiectiou with Iceland and the volcanic world, I may as we'l 
explain here the formation of Fingal's Cave, of Avhich my readers have 
probably seen numerous engTaviugs. In this deep grotto, which is 
entered by a boat, immense basaltic coin inns rise to the right and left 
of the explorer to a great height, and support a roof formed of the 
, pendant remains of similar columns. The theory of the formation of 
this natural curiosity is not more complicated than that of our ordinary 
caverns. In the latter the primitive disturbance of the locality raised 
the rocky mass in one unbroken piece, except at the part corresponding 
to the mouth of the cave. There the stratum of rock disturbed did not 
follow the part lifted up, and a separation consequently ensued between 
the portion raised and that remaining in place. This is so evidently the 
case that, traces may be found by close, examination of the former 
juncture of the rock forming the floor of the grotto, and that of its roof; 
corresponding creases and salient points in each attest their former 
union. Now suppose the same operation to take place in a locality 
covered with the beautiful basaltic columns formed by the contraction 
and solidification of the primeval lava. If while the larger part of the 
colonnade was elevated, a portion refused to follow the general move- 
ment, a cavity would be formed, the u])per parts of the immobile col- 
umns would form the roof, and the lower pnrts which retained their 
original position would constitute the iloor of the cave. Caverns of this 
kind exist in the sides of the basaltic hills, disturbed by the action of 
the ancient volcanoes of Au\'ergne. In most cases, as in the cave, or 
rather the caves of Fingal, for there are several of them, the basaltic 
rock attained its greatest elevation immediately back of the opening of 
the grotto, wiiich is consequently higher in front than at the back. Open 
moderately the long jaws of a hunting dog, and his beautiful teeth 
above and befow will give a very good idea of the divided trunks of the 
basaltic columns forming the ceiling and pavement of the grotto, while 
his two fangs, extending from jaw to jaw, represent very well the 
columns which have remained intact, and support the vault formed by 
those which have been separated into two parts. 

The theory in regard to the fossil wood of Iceland, as given in the 
exposition of the voyage of La Reine Hortense, a])pears to me well 
worthy of confidence, and, as usual, one truth leads to another. If, for 
exainiile, we admit that this wood was brought to the island by marine 
currents, the various elevations at which it is found may afford a 
valuable indication of the rising of the ground. The report of the 
expedition is silent in regard to the rising of the Faroe Islands. When- 
ever a good measure is initiated by an expedition it finds coutinuators, 
and science is as much benefited by the work induced, as by that 
actually accomplished. Natural philosophy does not lack encourage- 
ment and appreciation, and it pays in renown every attempt to assist 
its progress. It has been said science has no special public, but the same 
may be said of the pulpit and the bar. 

France ought not to forget that she is the Areopagus of glory. " If I 
dared," said Frederick the Great in a letter to Maupertuis, on the 12th 
of March, 1750, "I would say confidently to you Frenchmen Avhat Alex- 
ander said to the Athenians: What pains 1 take to be praised by you !" 

It is evident from the nautical report that if La Eeine Hortense was 
not crushed by the ice, it was not the fault of the temerity of the navi- 
gators, which was counteracted, it is true, by a most active and judi- 
cious supervision. Tlie poor Saxon, which carried supplies of coal, did 
not escape as wxll. She suffered from the touch of a very gentle ice- 
berg. Happily she was not utterly destroyed. I congratulate myself 



THE NORTHERN SEAS. 295 

upou having remonstrated with the expedition upon the imprudence of 
such a cruise along the fast ice, which always produces fog. Howevw, 
our mariners, more skillful even thau imprudent, have returned, and 
given us a beautiful volume, which does not contain the half of what 
they could tell us. One thing is to be regretted, that is, the small num- 
ber of soundings taken. The question of transatlantic communication 
by means of a submarine telegraph renders very important the deter- 
mination of the depth of localities where the cable may be laid. The 
depths measured were generally great. 

Another voyage, that of an American, a visit to the people of the 
north, would deserve more than a simple mention of it by me if science 
held in it a more prominent place. Mr. Bi-ace's book possesses the rare 
advantage of being written by a tourist who saw more thau the inside 
of inns. He sought the people at liome^ to borrow a word from the 
title of his book. It is interesting to view the Scandinavian country 
through the eyes of a citizen of the United States, and I repeat that the 
author has brought us more than any other in contact with the people 
of every grade. "Paris seen in eight days" is the title of the guide- 
book given to strangers. Could anything be more absurd"? Between 
an excursion to Versailles and an exhibition at the Eoyal Theater, we 
receive a visit from an English family, out of health, but with a fearful 
amount of curiosity to satisfy. After a few words about their over- 
whelming fatigue, they set out again to see more, if seeing it can be 
called. An English tourist is reported to have said to a compatriot, on 
coming out of the picture gallery of the Louvre, "Ah! my friend, what 
an admirable collection ; I have taken an hour to see it, and you know 
I walk fast." But joking aside, Mr. Brace's work deserves to be trans- 
lated into French. It possesses all that can be favorably said of a book 
of travels. The number of those who publish works of this kind is to 
that of real observers, as the number of true poets is to that of mere 
verse-makers. 

Let us now conclude this review of the voyage of La Eeine Hortense. 
The captain of the vessel, and the officers supporting him, under the 
direction of the head of the expedition, have given proof of a high degree 
01 genius for arctic exploration. France should not allow such talent to 
be dormant. We know iii what estimation jSTapoleon the First held lucky 
men ; he considered them especially skillful. Now our mariners were 
very lucky and also very skillful. Their ability ought to be employed, 
and that in the line of their specialty. See what a very interesting 
region remains to be explored. 

In entering into the glacial sea on our meridian, but on the other side 
of the world, which is at noon when we are at midnight, through Beh- 
ring's Strait, we find, by ascending to the north and west, in the Siberian 
seas, a basin extending to the islands called New Siberia, which has 
been but little explored. It is here that from time immemorial the race 
analogous to tlie Esquimaux of Europe and America have sought, every 
winter, the antediluvian ivory which rolls upon our billiard boards, in 
conjuuctiou with that of the contemporaneous elephauts of Asia and 
Africa. These islands were the catacombs of the primitive animal world. 
I had hoped that Prince Demidoff, who promised us an expedition by- 
land to Siberia, would have given us the key to this great enigma of 
nature; but a maritime expedition would be much more efficacious. An 
especial commission should be sent to Xijney-Kolymsk and the island 
discovered by Liakof in 1770. Something ought to be added to the 
knowledge obtained in 1804 of the mammoth preserved intact by the 
cold. • Treasures of organic archajology are hidden in the three or four 



296 



THE NORTHERN SEAS. 



I 



islands of the group mentioned. If, according to M. Guizot, seconded 
by Mr. Airy, Fiance is the pioneer of science, slie ought not to he igno- 
rant of what it is in her power to know. 

I have not noticed various questions concerning the aurora boreal is, 
terrestrial magnetism, gravity, and physical geography, which this ex- 
pedition might solve, and I ask pardon for not haying given tliese sug- 
gestions as those of MM. JJuperrey and Petit-Thouars, whose names 
would have much more weight than my own; but in the domain of 
science the sovereign empire is that of truth. One curious fact among 
the observations of La Eeine Horteuse I omitted to mention, which is, 
that in tlie arctic seas visited the magnetic needle, which here points to 
the north, turned to the west, or even worse than that. M. Duperrey 
should be furnished with the means of publishing his magnetic charts, 
which extend to 18G0, and of thereby giving to the twentieth century, 
now so near, data for which not onlj- that but centuries to come will be 
grateful. 



REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND OF NAT- 
URAL HISTORY OF GENEVA, FROM JUNE, 1868, TO JUNE, 1869. 



By Di:. H. C. Lombard. 



\_2Vanslated for the Smithsonian Institution from the memoirs of the society : Geneva, 1869.] 

I am about to perform the last act of the presidency with ^Yhich my 
highly respected colleagues have beeu i)leased to honor me, by render- 
ing an account of our transactions and of the changes which have 
occurred in our society during the academical year which now draws to 
an end. 

Death, that visitor who is almost always unlooked for, has robbed us 
of several members, emeriti or honorary. In the first category, we 
recall M. Isaac Macaire, who, after being long one of our members in 
ordinary, was, at his own request, classed in the number of the emeriti. 
In the second category, or that of honorary members, we have to record 
three individuals whose labors have contributed greatly to exteiul the 
boundaries of the natural and physical sciences, and whom we had the 
honor to number among our correspondents. I speak of M^I. Von Mar- 
tins, Matteucci, and Forbes. But if our ranks have sustained some 
losses, the vacancies thus left have been promptly filled, not, iiuleed, 
by savants already numbered, like the honorary members just named, 
in tlie first class, with whom our new colleagues would not excuse me 
for instituting a comparison, but by four members in ordinary, most 
of them young, and bearing names endeared to us by more than one 
title. One of these. Professor De La Harpe, already an adjunct of the 
society under the title of associate, became a member in ordinary in the 
course of the winter, after having read an original essay on a question 
of mathematics. Of the three others, who are still of an age which 
promises a longer career than remains for most of us, one has taken, 
after several years interval, the place of a colleague regretted by each 
of us. It is with great satisfaction, therefore, that we have enrolled in 
our society a second Dr. Jean Louis Prevost, devoted, like his prede- 
cessor, to the researclies of experimental physiology. Tlie second of our 
young members, M. Ernest Favre, in taking his place among us, renews 
the tradition of those geological researches which earned an honored 
name for his father. Professor Alphonse Favre. Finally", if the last of 
our young members, M. Edouard Sarasin, has no direct ascendants in 
the cultivation of the sciences, he numbers warm friends in tliose pur- 
suits, who will aid him in openhig a path of his own in the physico-chem- 
ical studies to which he has earnestly devoted himself. 

After this summary review^ of our losses and acquisitions, let us recur 
to the former and briefly recount the labors of those whom death has 
removed from us. 

M. Isaac Francois Macaire was born, in 179G, at Geneva, where he 
fulfilled the customary circle of academic studies. He succeeded his 
father as pharmaceutist, and availed himself of that circumstance to 
apply more especially to chemistrj" and the natural sciences. We need 
not recall here the obligations of chemistry to the laboratories of phar- 



298 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 

macy; it is sufficient to name Sclieele and Sir Humphrey Davy. Our 
late colleague found, in Pyrame De Candolle, Gaspard Be LaEive, and 
Alexander Marcet, friends and enlightened counsellors, by wliom the 
first steps of his scientific career were greatly lacilitated. lieceived, 
when very young, as a member of our society, (1821,) he furnished fre- 
quent communications, which were printed in the Annales de Chimie et 
de Physique or in the Bihliofhcque UniverseUe. His first essays were 
chiefly directed to the analysis of minerals and to researches in vegeta- 
ble physiology, in connection with wdiich he gave especial attention to 
the autumnal coloration of leaves. His inquiry respecting the phospho- 
1 rescence of the lampyris or glow-worm was widely noticed, as was also 
a memoir relative to the action of poisons on sensitive plants, which 
formed a sequel to the analogous researches of M. Franck Marcet. In 
conjuuctiou with the latter, Macaire conducted many interesting investi- 
gations on the composition of organic substances and on certain special 
questions in chemistry. Xamed, in 183G, adjunct professor of medical 
chemistry, he gave at the academy a course of toxicology, as he had 
l^reviously given courses on applied chemistry, before the Society of 
Arts, of w^hich he was a member from 1830. He was, in additiou, one 
of the most assiduous collaborators of the Bibliotheque UniverseUe, for 
which he prepared numerous scientific articles, as well original as bib- 
liographical. 

Summoned in the midst of his scientific career to take part in the 
state councils, he yet found time, notwithstanding his many administra- 
tive occupations, to cultivate his favorite science. Isaac Macaire be- 
longed to that generation of savants, daily diminishing in number, who 
were the first pupils of the distinguished professors by whom Geneva 
was adorned during the early years of the restoration, and who, conse- 
quently, bore a part in the awakening of the scientific movement of 
that era. The sacred fire then kindled was guarded by him with all 
that ardor for science which w^as the predominant characteristic of the 
period. He loved to recur to those happy times of his youth when the 
eminent men whom Geneva then possessed diffused an atmosi)here of 
intellectual good-fellowship which it was grateful to breathe. 

Of our three honorary members removed by death, the oldest was Dr. 
Charles Frederic Philipjie Von Martius, who was born at Erlangen in 
1794, and who became a member of our society in 1821. The name of 
this celebrated botanist is associated with his great scientific expedition 
to Brazil and with the publication of numerous and highly esteemed 
works which have largely extended our knowledge of the flora of the 
tropical regions. After having traversed the most remote parts of that 
vast empire and ascended the Kiver Amazon to the frontiers of Peru, M. 
Yon Martius, in company with M. Von Sjiix, transmitted to Europe the 
rich collections now deposited in the ro^-al museum of Munich. The 
premature death of M. Von Spix threw the whole burden of editing and 
l)ublishing this scientific exposition on M. Von Martius; hence he was 
obliged to call to his assistance several collaborators and, among others, 
our fellow-countryman, M. Agassiz, who thus led the way, by the de- 
scription of the fishes of Brazil, to that more profound knowledge of this 
immense empire which he has acquired in a more recent expedition; an 
expedition in which every facility for his studies as a naturalist was 
placed at his disposal by the liberality of the authorities of the country, 
no less than by the pecuniary aid of a wealthy citizen of the United 
States. 

But what has earned a distinguished name for Von Martius, besides 
his analytical genius, his admirable descriptions, his sjiirit of general- 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 299 

ization, are three great works, any one of wliicli would have sufficed to 
confer celebrity as a botanist. The Kova f/enera et species plantarum 
Brasiliensium forms three volumes in folio, illustrated by three hundred 
plates executed with great care. The Ilistoria natundls palmarum m 
also composed of three volumes in folio, embellished with two hundred 
and forty-five plates, mostly colored, and some of them representing 
landscapes which show, together with the aspect of certain palms, the 
part which they fulfil in the vegetation of difierent countries. Lastly, 
the Flora brasiliensis, a work also in folio, embellished with plates, has 
reached its sixteenth volume, and will be continued under the care of 
Dr. Eichler and the auspices of the Brazilian government. 

Such are a few of the works of M. Von Martins. It Avill be understood 
from this very incomplete enumeration why I felt authorized to say 
just now that our society was honored by counting so distinguished 
a botanist in the number of its honorary members. M. Von Martius 
was permitted to continue his scientific labors to a very advanced age, 
retaining to the last the vivacity of his mind and that love of study 
which enabled him to accomplish so many valuable labors. But it has 
been our privilege to appreciate in the savant the man of kind feelings 
as well as shrewd observation through the extracts which Professor De 
Candolle has communicated to us from his letters, in which hnmor dis- 
putes the palm with originality, while he expresses his thoughts some- 
times in French, sometimes in Latin; commencing a phrase in one of 
those languages and finishing it almost without transition in the other. 

M. Von Martius breathed his last December 13, 18GS, at the age of 
seventy-five years, encircled with the esteem of his fellow-citizens and 
the respect of the Jbotanists of all countries. 

The career of Carlo Matteucci was shorter, for he died at the age of 
fifty-seven years, when a long continuance of his scientific and admin- 
istrative labors seemed still to await him. Devoted, like his predeces- 
sors and compatriots, Galvani, Volta, Nobili and Melloui, to the study 
of electrical phenomena, Matteucci communicated a strong impulse to 
the science which he cultivated with so much zeal. From the first, the 
chemical phenomena of voltaic electricity attracted his attention, and 
he demonstrated, in 1835, that the interior chemical work of the pile 
is equivalent to its exterior work. He studied successively the propa- 
gation of electricity in liquids, whether in a state of continuity or 
separated into compartments by metallic diaphragms. But it was espe- 
cially by his researches on animal electricity that the name of Matteucci 
was rendered illustrious ; researches which, first directed to the torpedo 
and the electrogenous apparatus of that fish, which he discovered to be 
under the infiuence of the fourth cerebral lobe, were afterward extended 
to other electrical animals, resulting in the detection of the curious 
phenomenon designated by him as inducted contraction. These researches 
in electro-physiology had led M. Matteucci to recognize, not only in 
electric animals, but in all others, a muscular current whose direction 
and intensity he made the subject of exact study. Otten in conflict, 
as regards these delicate inquiries, with a German savant, M. Dubois- 
Eaymond, he was under the necessity of greatly varying his experi- 
ments in order to arrive at a clearer demonstration of the phenomena 
which served as a basis for his Treatise on the electro-plujsiological phe- 
nomena of animals, jniblished in 1811, and his Course of electro-plajsi- 
olofju, published in 1857. The death which we are thus called to record 
is that of an eminent physiologist no less than distinguished physicist. 
His name was enrolled in our society in 1831, and most of us preserve 
a lively recollection of his kindliness of manner and of the judicious 



300 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 

remarks with wliicli he accompauied the readiug of the memoirs at the 
sessions iu whicli we had the pleasure of meeting him. 

At the mention of Professor James David Forbes we find ourselves 
in some sort at home, since, besides not a few investigations in pure 
phj\sics, a great part of the researches of this learned Scotchman had 
for their object our mighty Alps, with the glaciers which cover their 
summits and descend into their valleys. It was from no su])erficial 
inspection that Forbes described the geology of these mountains and 
the movement of the glaciers ; like de JSaussure, upon whose labors he 
seems to have modeled his own, he has given us his Travels in the Alps, 
founded upon very numerous excursions, as stated by himself in a pre- 
face written in 1843: "It was my privilege to receive, iu earliest youth, 
the most vivid impressions from the contemplation of mountain scenery, 
and 1 have renewed those impressions in after-life, by traversing the 
chain of the Alps twenty-seven times by twenty-three different passes, 
and exploring all the lateral valleys of the great central group of 
Europe." It was through these multiplied excursions, which were 
repeated nearly every year since ISlo, that Forbes was enabled to 
deduce his theory of the movement of glaciers, which he compares to 
a river descending slowly into the valley. But his explorations were 
Bot limited to the Alps; they were extended to the volcanic regions, 
both ancient and recent, of the Gulf of Naples and of Ardeche, as well 
as to the glaciers and fiords of Norway. Unhappily, the first germs of 
consumption were developed in his system during these last-mentioned 
excursions ; and it was this disease which conducted him to the tomb, 
December 31, ISGS, at the age of fifty-nine years, after long sufferings, 
partially alleviated by intervals of comparative good health. 

Professor Forbes was a member of our society from the year 1833. 
He was often present at our sittings, giving us the earliest fruits of the 
observations which he had just made in the neighboring Alps and com- 
municating them to the i)ublic through the medium of the Bibliotheque 
TJniverseUe, as well as the scientific collections of his native country. 
Some idea of the great intellectual activity of one who died when still in 
the flower of his age may be formed from the fact that his biographer, 
M. Eeikie, has recorded the titles of one hundred and forty-two works 
or memoirs Avhich he had published ; of these I shall cite but one as 
specially interesting us, namely, a biographic notice of our colleague, 
Professor Necker. 



After these biographical and administrative details let us pass to the 
liroper labors of our society, and commence with the i)hysical and math- 
ematical sciences. 

§ 1. — Astronomy. 

Professor Gautier has continued to make the society acquainted with 
the i)rogress of astronomy, and particularly with that remarkable class 
of recent investigations to which the employment of the spectral method 
has given rise. The observations of the eclipse of the 18th of August, 
1868, as well as the study of the constitution of the sun, and other ce- 
lestial bodies, have formed the subject of the greater part of his com- 
munications. M. Soret has also occupied our attention with the chem- 
ical composition of the solar atmosphere, the exterior strata of which 
seem to contain only hydrogen and not a multiplicity of gases or vapors, 
a fact which has been brought forward by certain persons as an objec- 
tion to the theory by which M. Kirchoff has explained the black stripes 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 301 

of the spectrum. But if it be admitted tbat iu an assemblage of gases 
each of tbem may act singly, it would follow tbat tbe atmospbere of by- 
drogeu, by reason of tbe feeble specitic gravity of tbat gas, must ex- 
tend mucb further than those of the other vapors, and form, consequently, 
the exterior envelope of the sun. 

§ 2. — ^]\Ieteoeology. 

Professor Gautier read to us an extended notice on the fourth year of 
the thermometric and pluviometric observations made at the seventy 
Swiss meteorological stations, and also on some other analogous labors 
of MM. Wolf, Plantamour, Marguet, Ilirscb, Fretz, &c. This notice, 
forming a sequel to those which M. Gautier had drawn up on the first 
three years of observation, has been published in the number of the Ar 
chives des sciences physiques et natureUes for jS^ovember, ISGS, 

The meteorology of different regions has formed the subject of som'e 
interesting communications. Protessor Marcet has related to us his im- 
pressions regarding the climate of Egypt, where he had resided for sev- 
eral months. He was especially struck, iu ascending the Nile, at the 
excessive differences which exist between tbe maxima and minima, 
according to tbe hours of the day. In tbe month of January it was 
very difficult to support the beat of the sun at 27^, (80° F.,) or even at 
22°' or 23° (72° or 73° F.) This is referable, doubtless, to tbe extreme 
dryness of the air. It scarcely ever rains, iu fact, in Upper Egypt and 
Nubia. The assertion of Herodotus tbat it bad not rained at Thebes 
since the time of Psammetichus, that is to say during five centuries, 
is, no doubt, exaggerated, but it is not the less true that rain is 
extremely rare in those countries. The dragoman of Mr. Marcet had 
seen raiu fall but once in fifteen or sixteen years. The radiation 
produces an extreme coldness at the rising of the sun. It appears that 
at Ismaila, where many plantations have been formed since labor was 
commenced on the canal of Suez, it rains more frequently thau of old. 
In higher Egypt and Nubia the sky is almost always clear. M. Mar 
cet observed clouds, but be believes that it was a misty appearance pro- 
duced by tbe Kamsin. 

A summary of meteorological observations made at Hayti during five 
years was communicated to us by Professor Gautier ; the extremes of 
temperature observed in that space of time were 13°, 5°, and 38°, (56°, 
41°, and 100° F.) M. Gautier has received the commencement of ob- 
servations made, at his instance, ou the coast of Labrador by the Mo- 
ravian missionaries, to whom he had sent thermometers prepared and 
regulated at Geneva. 

Professor Plantamour recounted to us the anomalies of temperature 
observed at Geneva during the month of December, 18G8. The mean 
was 7°.14:, (45° F.;) being C°.14 (43° F.) higher than for the previous 
forty-three years. During that period there had been but two months 
of March and a single November iu which the temperature was higher. 
So high a temj)erature had not been experienced for any month of Feb- 
ruar}', nor a fortiori of January, but, again, there had been six Aprils 
in the same series of years which were colder. There fell in December 
155 millimetres (6 inches) of water, a quautity greater than that of all 
the years since 182C, with the exception of 1841. According to M. 
Wolf, of Zurich, the quantity of water collected at several stations of 
East Switzerland, especially at those of considerable elevation, from the 
middle of September to the end of October, 1867, exceeded a metre, and 
cases occurred in which tbe quantity of water falling in the course of 



302 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATUEAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 

twenty-four liours amounted to 30 and 40 centimetres, (12 and 16 inches.) 
The inundations occasioned by falls of water so exceptional cannot be 
attributed solely to the removal of the forests from the mountains, how- 
ever unfavorable such clearings may be. Lastly, mention was made of 
the shower of mud observed at Naples by Professor Claparede. The 
clouds, on that day, had a peculiar aspect and seemed to be formed of 
dust; muddy spots were left on the windows by the drops of rain. Gen- 
eral Dufour'had witnessed at Corfu showers of mud which the inhabit- 
ants attributed to the wind of Africa. 

§ 3.— Mathematics and Physics. 

Pure mathematics has been the subject of but a single memoir, which 
was read to us by Professor De La Harpe. It is the first part of a trea- 
tise on the Ibrmation of powers, in which the author demonstrates that 
the higher powers are formed by differences. He gives the formulas 
designed for the calculation of high powers and designates them by the 
general name of formula of the monome. This memoir vfas accomp-mied 
by models intended to facilitate the understanding of the demonstrations. 

The geodesic labors undertaken by Swiss savants have been continued 
duringthe year 1868. Professor Plantamour has communicated to us 
the result of the Swiss levelings, which embrace the whole of the west- 
ern part from Geneva to Basle. MM. Planta mour and Hirsch have been 
engaged in determining for the ditiereut stations the numbers as referred 
to the stone of Niton, which serves as the point of departure, while the 
primitive data simply give the difference of level between two consecu- 
tive stations. The number of points for w^hich the amounts have been 
thus established is 626. To that end, it was necessary to make a com- 
pensation for the errors in the system composed of a series of polygons, 
each of which ought to be exactly closed. One of the causes of error in 
a leveling of precision, the influence of which is very considerable in a 
country so broken as ours, is the variableness in the absolute length of 
the sights, according to atmospheric circumstances, the temperature, 
hygrometric state; and, from direct and numerous comparisons, this 
variation may amount to a ten-thousandth of their length, more or less. 

M. Plantamour gave an account of observations which he had made 
during a sojourn of nearly two months at Weissenstein with a view of 
determining the astronomical co-ordinates of that station. He also read 
a memoir on the latitude of the Eighi Culm from observations made at 
that locality in 1867. The latitude was determined as well by the circum- 
meridian zenithal distances of stars as by observations of their passage in 
the prime vertical. The number obtained is sensibly greater than that 
indicated in the triangulation of Switzerland, which had been deduced 
from the latitude of Berne by the calculation of triangles. The differ- 
ence is easily explained by the attraction of the neighboring chain of 
the Alps situated to the south of the Eighi. 

The effects of lightning on trees have been studied by Professor Col- 
ladon in the case of sixteen poplars, three oaks, a fir tree, and a vine. 
The poplars which were struck were seamed with furrows, greatly shat- 
tered, and stripped of bark and liber in the two lower thirds of the tree, 
the upper third being most frequently exempt from injury, probably in 
consequence of the greater conductibility of that portion of the branches 
and foliage. The poplar of Italy especially attracts lightning, for M. 
Colladon has seen it struck in preference to neighboring oaks and elms, 
though the latter were taller than the poplars. The effects of lightning 
on oaks are very different from those just described : the upper parts 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 303 

are alwavs killed, and one or t>ro furrows may be traced descending- from 
the summit to the soil. To the right and left of the furrow are seen 
two strips of alburnum deprived of bark, the width of which increases 
as they approach the ground. The effects of the lightning which fell, 
on the 17th of July, on a fir tree in the city of Nyon were very remark- 
able. The stroke was preceded by the appearance of a luminous ball 
which moved along the surface of the ground at thrqe or four yards 
from the tree, an electric phenomenon often described by physicists and 
in particular by Arago. The fir was about 10.50 metres (51 feet) in 
height. In its upper part the leaves were scorched to the half of their 
length. The trunk showed no injury in its upper half, but below there 
were several very deep fissures and ten or twelve brownish and circular 
spots from 3 to 5 centimetres (1 to 2 inches) broad, where the baric had 
been removed. The vine struck, in July, 1808, presented a regular circle 
of 14 to 15 metres, (15 to 50 feet,) comprising about three hundred and 
fifty stems, on which nearly all the leaves were mottled with reddish 
and olive-colored spots. The intensity of this coloration increased on 
approaching the center. The props were neither burned nor broken. 
Dr. Miiller, who examined the branches and leaves of the vine-stocks 
reached by the lightning, found that there was no modification of the 
cellules in the interior, and that the effect had taken place on the nitro- 
genized matter, and especially on the cambium. 

The memoir of M. Colladou was accompanied with designs, samples, 
and strips of the bark, which greatly contributed to the understanding 
of the effects of lightning on'the trees. Professor j)e La Eive cited 
some observations in confirmation of those of M. Colladon. He thinks 
that the spots observed are analogous to those of every electric dis- 
charge, and which are also circular. Their appearance would seem 
referable to the presence on the trunk of some foreign substance. 

Professor De La Eive communicated to us the result of the observa- 
tions of ]M. Wild on the absorbent power of light by atmospheric air, 
and gave us the analysis of the most recent investigations of jM. Becque- 
rel and M. Tyndall on the physical and chemical phenomena of light. 
He called our attention to the observations which have been made at 
the observatory of Greenwich on the agreement of magnetic and galvauo- 
metric curves. These curves are nearly identical, the only difference 
being the following : A point of a curve of the galvanometer always pre- 
cedes the corresponding point of the curve of the magnetometer. 

M. Ed. Sarasin couimunicated the result of his researches on the 
phosphorescence of rarefied gases after the passage of the electric spark, 
and particularly on the part borne by oxygen in these phenomena, 
(ArcJdres, March, 1809.) 

Professor Marignac detailed his experiments on the heat of the vola- 
tilization of ammoniacal salts. He has arrived, by prolonged and minute 
researches, at the conclusion that it is exceedingly probable that the 
salts of ammonium are, in great part, decomposed into their elements 
when volatilized, [Archives, November, 1808.) 

Professor Wartmann, besides several reports on the memoirs pub- 
lished by other savants, gave an account of two luminous phenomena 
which he had had an opportunity of observing : First, a magnificent 
solar spectrum on the surface of the lake, seen on the road from Her- 
mance, a phenomenon which could only be explained by a refraction fol- 
lowed by a reflection of the solar rays' by the waves ; secondly, a lumi- 
nous vertical column after the setting of the sun. This meteor, of which 
he published a notice in 1810, is susceptible of explanation by vertical 
prisms of ice held in suspension in the atmosphere. 



304 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 

M. Soret coiiiinimicated tlie results of -recent observations on solar 
radiation, the intensity of wliicli at Geneva during several days of IMarch 
was very considerable and exceeded that wliich he liad observed in 
summer at an altitude of 3,000 metres, (10,000 feet.) The same member 
presented a memoir on the i^olarization of the blue light from water, 
which has, under this condition, an almost complete analogy with the 
light from the sky, {Archives, May, 1800.) 

§ 4. — Chemistry. 

M. Antoine Morin stated to us the result of his experiments on the 
alloys of gold, silver, and copper, a subject which intimately concerns 
our manufactures of jewehy and horology. The most usual alloys are 
not only compounds but a true chemical combination, notwithstanding 
the difference of density of the gold and copper. There needs but simple 
fusion and remelting three or four times to obtain an alloy so homoge- 
neous that the law allows only a deduction of j-^jj-^ for those of gold and 
copper and of j-Jv o for those of silver and copper. For this there is 
required a special force, which is chemical affinity, the influence of 
which is demonstrated by a change in the molecular state of the metals 
alloyed. In calculating the speciiic weight of alloys, we find a number 
greater by an eighth or a ninth than the real density of alloys of gold, 
and by a sixth or a seventh than the alloys of gold and native silver of 
Colombia. The difference is insignificant for alloys of silver and copper, 
but the homogeneity of the ingots is obtained with more difficulty. The 
augmejitation of volume of the metals which enter into the alloys of 
gold with silver and copper is not the only indication of a chemical com- 
bination. The proportions which have been adopted in practice for 
jewelry of 18 and 14 carats are closely approximate to the atomic num- 
bers which would form combinations of a definite proportion. The 
hypothesis that there is chemical union, and not simple mixture, seems 
to be confirmed by the analysis of natural alloys. In most of these the 
metals are found in quantities corresponding to the exact numbers of 
equivalents. 

M. Morin has also been engaged in verifying the cause of the rochage 
which forms an accident in founding, and which consists in a rupture 
of the solidified crust of the metal accompanied by a jet of that which is 
in fusion. He thinks thtit the rochage is a phenomenon of a chemical 
nature, as the metal ejected has not the same comj)osition as the rest of 
the ingot. 

§ 5. — Geology^ and Paxeontology^. 

Professor De La Eive communicated to us a letter of Professor Agas- 
siz on the existence of ancient glaciers of considerable height and extent 
in the greater i)art of North America, particularly in the region of the 
prairies. 

Professor Favre described the great moraines which the ancient gla- 
cier of the Ehiue has deposited even in Wlirtemberg. He gave an 
account, based on the researches of two geologists of Lyons, (MM. Fal- 
san and Chartre,) of the erratic blocks deposited by the glacier of the 
Ehone between Geneva and Lyons, of the geological constitution of 
Mount Cervin, as studied in two successive ascents by M. Giordano, of 
the discoveries of M. Chartre relative to the question of prehistoric man, 
&c. He exhibited to us a small erratic block of red porphyry, found in 
the environs of St. Julieu, and, on several occasions, occupied our atten- 
tion with the remarkable rei^ository of smoky rock-crystals, found at the 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 305 

glacier of Tiefen, near Gallenstock, in the canton of TJri. A fine group 
of these crystals lias been given by Madame Revilliod De La Eive to 
our new library and will form one of the ornaments of the Eevilliod hall. 

M. Ernest Favre read a memoir on the fossil mollusks of the environs 
of Lemberg, in Gallicia. The fossils described were furnished by two 
principal repositories : Xagorzany and Lemberg. At the latter, the 
formation is constitnted by a very line and comi^act calcareous marl, 
forming a bank which exceeds 145 metres, (470 feet.) The rock of Xa- 
gorzany is a yellow, hard sandstone, in thick banks, alternating with 
strata of soft limestone. M. Favre has recognized in his fanna one hun- 
dred and seventy well-distinguished species of mollusks. The cephalo- 
pods abound at N^agorzany. They comprise eighteen species, of which 
the most characteristic is the Belemnitella mucronata. Here also the 
gasteropods are numerous and varied, amounting to one-half of tlie 
feuna. At Lemberg they are represented by only twenty-six small and 
scanty species. Of the acephala, forty-six species are found at Lemberg 
and thirty-two at Nagorzany. The brachiopods number eleven species, 
four of which are common to both localities. The fossil mollusks found 
in Gallicia characterize the lower part of the chalk A BelemniteUa mucro- 
nafa, and, consequently, the senouian formation, iwesenting the greatest 
analogy with the chalks of Westphalia, Luneburg, and the Isle of Eugen, 
as well as with the senonian formations of Limburg, Hainault, and the 
basin of Paris, which all number species common with those of Lemberg. 

M. De Loriol presented a memoir which lie has recently published in 
conjunction with M. Gillieron on the urgonian stratum of Landeron. 
The fauna of this stratum forms a transition between that of the neoco- 
mian and that which characterizes the lower urgonian stratum. This 
fauna comprises a great number of Simngitaria as well as numerous indi- 
viduals of a Comatula with single arms, pertaining to the new genus 
Oiihiocrina. 

§ 6. — Botany. 

The most prominent fact which has distinguished our sessions, so far 
as botany is concerned, has undoubtedly been the liberal donation which 
Madame Delessert and her two daughters have made to the city of 
Geneva of the rich and celebrated herbarium of the Baron Francois 
Delessert. 

This collection forms one of the twenty or twenty-one largest herba- 
riums in existence, and it is especially remarkable on account of the 
great number of specimens described and mentioned by ancient or mo- 
dern authors. Independently of the types described by Lamarck, La- 
billardiere, Richard, Palisot, De Beauvais, and others, whicli are in the 
general herbarium, it comprises moreover that of the Burmans, which 
includes the types of the older botanists, especially those of Thuuberg 
and of the Burmans themselves, besides a herbal of Lapland, collected 
and named by Linnaeus. The plants of India, arranged by AYallichj 
form one of the most extensive collections whicli exist on the continent. 
This Delessert herbarium will be found in future in convenient prox- 
imity with the rich collections of MM. De CandoUe and Boissier, which 
were already of easy access to botanists, so that the one will be com- 
pleted by the others, thus affording facilities for the most thorough 
study. 

It is to M. Alphonse de Candolle, than whom no one can better appre- 
ciate the importance of this gift to our city, that I am indebted for the 
above particulars. It was from him also that the society received, on 
the authority of a letter from M. De Gelaznow, director of the Agricul- 

20 s 69 



306 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 

tural School of Peter tlie Gi*eat, a statement regarding tlie large quan- 
tities in which the white truffle exists in the interior of Eussia. 

Dr. Mitller gave an account of the investigations of MM. Bornet and 
Thuret respecting the fecundation of the Floridece, from which result 
two exceptional facts in the vegetable kingdom : First. The effect of the 
male element takes place here on a complete cellule, provided with a 
cellulose membrane, and not on a i)rotoplasmatic rudimentary cellule. 
Second. The result of the fecundation does not show itself in the cellule 
which has received the contents of the antherozoids, the formation of 
the fruit or cystocari) being produced at some distance in another part 
of the female individual. To Dr. Midler also we were indebted for the ex- 
hibition of specimens of a rare aquatic plant, of a fine rose-purple color, 
found at Evian on the pebbles at the bottom of a spring of alkaline and 
slightly ferruginous water. The plant is the RUdebrandtia rosa, var. 
Jiuviatilis, Kutz, which, by its fructification as well as color, belongs to 
the class, almost exclusively maritime, of the Floridete. On this occa- 
sion the Eev. M. Duby spoke of another alga, which, as observed by 
Dr. Welwitsch, covers at certain periods with a black crust the rocks on 
the western coast of Africa. 

M. Duby read a note, accomiDanied by plates, on certain species of 
exotic or little-known cryptogams. He describes fourteen new species, 
and five but little known,' pertaining to seven different genera. Of the 
new species one comes from the East Indies, three from Brazil, one from 
New Caledonia, four from Mexico, three from Chili, and two from Aus- 
tralia. On this occasion M. Duby stated that two new genera which 
have been introduced seem to be of doubtful authenticity ; these are the 
genera Amstremia and Bicraniella, which differ very little from the geuus 
Dicranum. 3^he genus Campiloims has been separated from the genus 
Dicranum by the two following characters : First, because the capsule 
is gyrose at the base; second, because the galeas of fructification are 
fimbriated at the base. Other botanists hold these characters to be of 
no great value, and maintain that in the same genus species are found 
in which the galea is fimbriate, and others in which it is not so. 

M. Duby has examined the microscopic vegetables which have covered 
GUI' lake at certain points and which were presented by M. De Saussure, 
on the part of Dr. Forel de Morges. They are grains of chlorophyllum 
formed in the algse and deposited during rainy seasons on the soil, whence 
they are borne by the waters to the lake. Dr. Miiller gave an account 
of a memoir of.M. Schumann on the Besdemiacem of the high Tatra. 

The extraordinary warmth of the month of December, 1868, occasioned 
in the month of February, 1869, the florescence wholly exceptional of 
forty-six different species which have been observed in our environs by 
M, Eeuter. 

§ 7. Zoology — Physiology. 

Madame Delessert and her daughters have merited our gratitude not 
alone by the gift of the valuable herbarium already mentioned, but by 
the rare collection of shells with which they have enriched our museum, 
and which will be one of the finest ornaments of our future academic 
buildings. This collection has not only the merit of being very rich in 
remarkable si)ecimens, but possesses a special scientific value in hav- 
ing served as a basis for the labors of Lamarck, who himself named 
most of the shells then existing in the Delessert collection. The entire 
donation has arrived without accident in our city and been deposited 
Ijrovisionally in the municipal school of Saint Gervais. Two of our 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AXD NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 307 

tuembers, M]\r. De Loriol and Lmiel, had repaired to Paris iu order to 
superintend the packing and transportation, 

M. De Saussure presented us a memoir which he has just completed ou 
the Ortliopicra of the museum of Geneva. The author thinks that there 
has been an error heretofore in the appreciation of the segment in the 
Blattcv described as the first abdominal segment, and that this segment 
pertains to the thorax. This opinion is not shared by M. Claparede, 
■vvho has often observed the soldering of certain segments, and who 
Ijoiuts out the tlifticulty of determining iu dried insects v\'hether the 
segments are severed or not. M. De Saussure has, moreover, favored us 
with a view of sundry specimens of PJiasoni, which have no defense 
against their natural enemies, and only escape by a complete immobility, 
which causes them to exactly resemble twigs of dead wood. 

Professor Claparede read to us an interesting memoir on the Lumhrici, 
which will be printed in the Zciisclirift fur wisscnschaftliche Zoologie. He 
communicated the recent discovery of an Italian savant Avho has recog- 
nized in the coloring matter furnished by an Annelid of the Gulf of Na- 
ples the chemical product lately detected in coal and designated by the 
name of Aniline. He has verified the j^resence of the same coloring 
principle iu the Floridece and in the Murex hrandaris ; it was this latter 
mollusk which supplied the ancients with their purple. 

M. de Candolle presented a i^aper of M. Eeinsch, inspector of mines at 
Gotha, who states that he has recognized microscopic organic remains, 
both animal and vegetable, in certain granitic rocks whicli have been 
reputed until now to be of an igneous or eruptive nature. In connec- 
tion with this subject, Dr. Miiller mentioned a phenomenon which has 
some analogy with the preceding ; the existence, namely, of organized 
living creatures in the water of the geysers of California, at a tempera- 
ture of 95^, (202^ Fahrenheit.) 

M. De Saussure gave an account of researches into the deep-sea faunas, 
which M. De Pourtales, who accompanied M. Agassiz iu his voj^age to 
Brazil, has recently published. 

Dr. WiEiani Marcet communicated his inquiries into the ansestlietic 
effects of the inhalation of protoxide of nitrogen. He thinks this gas 
by no means entitled to the name of exhilarating. The aufesthesis is ob- 
tained in a very marked manner when the gas is respired for one or 
two minutes, but it does not continue beyond two minutes ; after which 
every unpleasant symptom ceases completely. If, however, the inhala- 
tion be unduly prolonged, syncope and very serious accidents supervene. 
Dr. Sharpey, of Loudon, who was present at the sitting, confirmed these 
results ; he was confident that the inhalation of the gas for two min- 
utes at most is completely exempt from danger, and consequently very 
useful for short operations, such as the extraction of a tooth. But it is 
very hazardous to prolong the inhalation beyond two minutes. 

The president of the society recounted the results of a scientific in- 
vestigation, at which he had assisted, having for its object the employ- 
ment of protoxide of nitrogen as an anoesthetic agent. The recognition 
of its properties as such was unanimous, and its harmlessness, provided 
the inhalation be not prolonged, was likewise admitted. But its em- 
ployment was in'oscribed if the operation should require more than one 
or two minutes. The persons treated after this method in the presence 
of Dr. Lombard, presented no grave symptom nor any acceleration of 
the pidse or respiration. The insensibility appeared to be complete, 
judging from the representations of those upou whom the operation was 
performed and who were interrogated with care by several physicians 
who assisted in the experiments. 



308 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF ^^ENEVA. 

Dr. Prevost communicated to us his researches in experimental physi- 
ology relative to the seat of the sense of smell. This memoir has been 
published in the March number (18G9) of the Archives des sciences phy- 
siques et naturelles. He also made us acquainted with the experiments 
which he had performed at Paris and Berlin in the extirpation of the 
spheno-palatine ganglion", an operation which, in the opinion of Dr. 
Schiff, must sui)press the sense of taste in the anterior i^art of the 
tongue. The experiments in question gave, however, a negative result. 
M. Prevost also recalled the experiments of Dr. Waller on the atrophy 
of the peripheral nerves when separated from the central trunk. Ac- 
cording to this learned physiologist, if the vidian branch of the lingual 
nerve received gustatory nervous fibers, this branch would be atrophied 
after the section of the spheno-palatine ganglion ; this, however, has 
not been found to be the case by M. Prevost, who has always foimd it 
unimpaired after the operation. 

Dr. Dor gave an account of new experiments made "wdth a view to de- 
termine the velocity of the transmission of sensations. 

Dr. Gosse presented skulls found by Dr. Forel de Morges in an an- 
cient cemetery near Saint-Prex. These skulls are artificially deformed 
for the i)urpose of prodncing a frontal depression. Similar cases had 
been previously observed by M. Troyon near Lausanne, and by M. Gosse 
near Eegny. This flattening of the front by means of a board was a 
national custom among certain tribes, and especially among the Avari. 
Depressed skulls have been found at Vienna, in the Crimea, and at Van- 
couver's Island. A traveler in China relates that they occur also *in 
Mongolia, in verj^ ancient skulls. A memoir published at St. Peters- 
burg designates them by the name of macrocephaUc, but this term might 
create some confusion with the Macrocephali of Hippocrates and Strabo, 
among whom the object was rather to produce protrusion of the frontal 
bone. This frontal depression causes ordinarily a certain degree of 
prognathism ; it does not imi)air the functions of mobility, but simply 
lowers the grade of intelligence. 

Such is a summary review of the facts which have occupied our ses- 
sions. It will be seen that they are alike numerous and varied, and 
furnish renewed testimony of the scientific zeal which still subsists 
among us. May our unpretending labors have the effect of enlarging 
the field of human knowledge, and consequently of promoting the dif- 
fusion of light in our country. We shall thus have accomplished, as far 
as depends on us, the purpose which presided at the foundation of our 
. society ; a society which already counts nearly eighty years of existence. 



CORONADO'S MARCH IN SEARCH OF THE "SEVEN CITIES OF CIBOLA" AND 
DISCUSSION OF THEIR PROBABLE LOCATION. 



By Brevet Brigadier General J. H. Simpson, Colonel of Engineers, U. S. A^ 



The early Spanish explorations in Mexico in search of the " seven cities 
of Cibola " have always been of great interest to students of American 
history. Eeceut publications have dravrn my attention anew to the 
vast geograi^hical field embraced in the toilsome march of Yasquez de 
Coronado and his adventurous followers, and, having in years past been 
engaged officially in the United States service in exploring that remote 
region, I have been tempted to reinvestigate the grand enterprise of the 
Mexican government in 1540, and venture to offer the following essay as 
an expression of my well-considered views, derived, in earlj^ life, from 
observation of the field itself, and confirmed by careful study of all the 
authorities within my reach. Besides this, friends, in whose opinion I 
trust, believe that my reconnoissauces of a large part of the country 
traversed by Coronado and his followers give me some advantages in 
the discussion of this subject over other investigators, who have not been 
favored by personal inspection and scientific location of the important 
points embraced in the adventurers' march, so that I now submit my 
conclusions with less diffidence than I should have done had I not re- 
ceived in advance their cordial encouragement. 

I must acknowledge my indebtedness to the library of the Peabody 
Institute of this city, to the library of the Historical Society of Mary- 
land, and to the private library of the president of this last-mentioned 
society. Colonel Brantz Mayer, all of which have been thrown open to 
me in my researches. I must also express my particular obligations to 
Colonel Mayer for the very valuable aid he has afibrded me in the pre- 
paration of this article, by the use of his excellent translation (yet in 
manuscript) of Ternaux Compans' version of the " Eelation du Voyage 
de Cibola," entrepris en 1540, par Pedro do Castaiieda de Nagera," pub- 
lished in Paris in 1838. 

The arrangement of the following essay is, first, a brief narrative of 
the march of Coronado from the city of Mexico to the " seven cities of 
Cibola" and the province of Quivira, together with an account of the ex- 
peditions of his subordinate officers, naval and military ; and second, 
the discussion of the subject of the location of the important places 
visited in the several expeditions ; and, in order to a clear understanding 
of the text, I accompany.it with a map, for which, under my direction 
as to details of route, I am indebted to Mr. N. H. Ilutton, civil engineer, 
whose knowledge of IS'ew Mexico and Arizona, derived from his associa- 
tion with Generals Whipple and Parke, as assistant engineer, in their 
ex])lorations in ISTew Mexico and Arizona in 1853-50, has been of mate- 
rial service to me. 

In the year 1530, Nuno de Guzman, president of New Spain, was in- 
formed by his slave, an Indian, from the province of Tejos, situated 
somewhere north from Mexico, that in his travels he had seen cities so 
large that they might compare with the city of Mexico j that these 



310 coRON ado's march. 

cities were seven in number, and had streets whieli were exclusively oc- 
cupied by workers in gold and silver; that to reach them a journey 
of forty days through a desert v/as required ; and that travelers pene- 
trated the interior of that region by directing their steps northwardly 
betvreen the two seas. 

Kuiio de Guzman, confidently relying on this information, organized 
an army of four hundred Spaniards and twenty thousand Indian allies 
of ISTew Spain,* and set out in search of these seven wonderful cities ; 
but, after reaching the province of Culiacan, he encountered such great 
difQculties on account of the mountains he had to cross that he aban- 
doned the enterprise, and contented himself with colonizing the prov- 
ince of Culiacan. 

In the mean time, the Tejos Indian who had been his guide dying, the 
seven cities remained only known by name, till about eight years after- 
ward, wheii there arrived in Mexico three Spaniards named Alvar 
Nunez Cabe^a de Vaca, Andres Dorantes, and Alouso del Castillo 
Maldonado, accompanied by an Arabian negro named Estevanico, (Ste- 
phen.)! These persons had been wrecked with the fleet which Pam- 

* Castaueda's Relatious, Teruaiix Compaus' Collections, Paris, 1838, j). 2. Hakluyt, 
qiiotm^s? from a letter written by the Viceroy Antonio de Mendoga to tlie Emperor 
Charles V, says : " Nuuo de Guzman departed out of the city of Mexico with 400 
horsemen and 14,000 Indians." (Hakluyt's Voyages, vol. iii, p. 436, new ed. London, 
1810.) 

t This is according to Castaneda's account ; but according to that of Cabega de Vaca, 
Ternaus Compans' Collections, these persons arrived in New Spain in 1536, or six in- 
stead of eight years after Nuuo de Guzman's expedition. Their adventures were so 
j'emarkable I cannot refrain from saying something about tUem : 

Pamphilo de Narvaez sailed from the West Indies early in 1.528, with four hundred 
men, eighty horses, and four ships, for the x")urpose of exploring the country of Florida, 
of which he had been made governor. He seems to have reached the harbor of Santa 
Cruz (supposed to be Tampa Bay) in April of that year, and on the 1st May debarked 
with three hundred men, forty "of whom were mounted, for the purpose of exploring 
the interior of the conntry. His course Avas northwardly, and generally parallel to 
the coast. On the 26th June he reached an Indian town called Apalache, where he 
tarried twenty-five days. He then jom-neyed in nine days to a place called Ante. 
Continuing his course tJience westwardly for several days, his men became so dispirited 
from finding no gold, and on account of the rough treatment of the natives, that they 
returned to Ante, where, hearing nothing of their ships, which had been ordered to 
coast along with them and await their arrival at some good harbor, they constructed 
five small boats, in which two himdred and fifty of the party (all who had not died or 
been killed by the natives) embarked, steering along the coast westwardly for Panuco, 
on the coast of Mexico. At length they reached the mouth of a river, the current of 
which was so strong as to prevent their making headway against it, and whose fresh 
water was carried out some distance into the gulf. About seveu days ;i fter, while making 
their- way with great difficulty westwardly, the boat commanded by Cabega de Vaca 
was cast on an island, called by them Malhado, (Misfortune.) A day or two after this 
Cabega de Vaca's boat and all the others were capsized in a storm olf the island of 
Malhado, except that of the governor of Narvaez, which seems to have drifted out 
to sea, and, with its crew, was never afterward heard of. Those of the party that 
were not di'owned remained on the island of Malhado and main land adjacent for six 
years, and endured from the Indians, who had enslaved them, the greatest indignities. 
From this cause, and from starvation and cold, the greater portion of them died. At 
length four of them, (those mentioned in the text above,) all that probably survived, 
escaped from their bondage, taking in their flight a iiorthern course, toward the 
mountains, probably, of Northern Alabama. Thence their course was westwardly 
across the Mississippi (which was doubtless " the great rivm- coming from tlie North," 
spoken of T)y Cabeg a) and Arkansas rivers, to the headwaters of the Canadian, which 
they seem to have crossed just above the great canon of that river, (where Coronado 
crossed it in his outward route to Quivira, of which more in the sequel;) thence 
sonthwestwardly through what is now New Mexico and Arizoua to Culiacan, in Old 
Mexico, near the Pacific Coast, which they reached iu the spring of 1.536. (See narra- 
tive of Alvar Nunez Cabega de Vaca, translated by Buckingham Smith, Washington, 
18.51 ; and, in confirmation of the above specified crossing of the Canadian River, 
" The Relations of Casta ficda, by Tcruaux Compaus," p. 120.) 

Mr. Albert Gallatin, in his essay, vol. 2, pp. 56, 57, Transactions of American Ethno- 



COEONADOS MARCH. 311 

pliilo de Karvaez had conducted to Florida, and after crossing the 
conutry from one sea to the other had reached Mexico. 

The tales they told were qnite marvelous. They stated to the then 
nceroy, Don Antonio de Mendo^a, that they had carefully observed the 
country through which they had passed, and had been told of great and 
powerful cities, containing houses of foiir or five stories, &c. The vice- 
roy' communicating these declarations to the new governor, Francisco 
Vasquez de Coronado, the latter set out with haste to the i)rovince of 
Culiacan, taking with him three Franciscan friars, one of whom, by 
name Marcos de Ni^a, in the language of the chronicler Castaneda, was 
theologian* and priest. As soon as he reached Culiacan he dispatched 
the three Franciscans, with the negro Stephen before mentioned, on a 
journej' of discovery, with orders to return and report to him all they 
could ascertain by persona;l observation of the seven celebrated cities. 
The monks, not being well pleased with the negro on account of his 
excessive avarice, sent him in advance to pacify the Indians through 
whose country he had previously passed, and to prepare the way for the 
successful prosecution of their joiu^ney. Stephen, as soon as he reached 
the country of the " seven cities of Cibola," demanded, as Castaiieda 
says, not only their wealth but their women. 

The inhabitants not relishing this killed him and sent back all the 
others that had accompanied him, except the youths, whom they retained. 
The former, flying to their homes, encountered the monks before men- 
tioned, in the desert sixty leagues from Cibola.* When the holy fathers 
heard the sorrowful intelligence of the death of Stephen, they became 
so greatly alarmed that, no longer trusting even the Indians who had 
accompanied the negro, they gave them all they possessed except the 
ornaments used in the celebration of the mass, and forthwith returned, 
by double-days' journey, witliout knowing more of the country than the 
Indians had told them. The monks returning to Culiacan, reported 
the results of their attempted journey to Coronado, and gave 
him such a glowing description of all the negro had discovered and of 
what the Indians had told them, "as well as of the islands filled with 
treasure, which they were assured existed in the Southern sea," t that he 
decided to depart immediately for Mexico, taking with him Friar Mar- 
cos de M§a, in order that he might narrate all he had seen to the vice- 
roy. He also magnified the importance of the discovery by disclosing 
it only to his nearest friends, and by pledging them to secrecy. 

Arrived at Mexico, he had an interview with the viceroy, and pro- 
claimed everywhere that he had found "the seven cities" searched for 
by jSTuiio de Guzman, and busied himself with i)reparing an exi^edition 
for their conquest. Friar Marcos having been made, through the influ- 
ence of the monks, the pi'ovincial of the Franciscans, their pulpits re- 



logical Society, states tliat the river referred to above, wliose current vras so strong 
and which Narvaez's party could not stem, was the Mississippi ; hut this is not the view 
of Mr. Smith, who has laid down the routes of Narvaez and party as extending no 
further west than Leaf River, which lies to the eastward of the Mississippi Eiver. His 
idea, however, that the island of Santa Eosa, at the mouth of Pensacola Baj-, was 
Malliado, I think erroneous, for the reason that Cahega de Vaca expressly says this 
island was " half a league broad and five leagues (or seventeen miles) long," whereas 
Santa Rosa Island, according to the maps, is as much as forty-seven miles long. It is 
possible, however, that by accretions the island may,have attained this length since 
Cabega de Vaca was wrecked upon it. 

* So says Castaneda ; but Marcos de Niga, in his account of his journey, distinctly 
states that he approached so near the city of Cibola that from a liigli elevation he could 
see the houses, and gives quite a particular description of them. (Relation of Friar 
Marcos de Nifa, Ternaux Compaus' Collections, p. 279.) 

tCastaiieda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 16. 



312 COEONADO'S MARCH. 

sounded with the marvels of discoveries to such an extent that in a few 
days three hundred Spaniards and eight hundred Indians were assem- 
bled for the enterprise. Among the former were a great many gentle- 
men of good family, and probably there never had been an expedition 
ill which there was such a large proportion of persons of noble birth. 
Francisco Yasquez de Coronado, the governor of New Galicia, was pro- 
claimed captain general, because he was the author of the discovery, 
and the Viceroy Mendo^a did all he could to foster the enterprise. 

Believing that if the army marched from the city of Mexico in a body 
the Indian allies would i)rol)ably suffer, the viceroy appointed the town 
of Compostella, capital of New Galicia, one hundred and ten leagues 
from Mexico, as the place, and Shrove Tuesday, 1540,* the time of ren- 
dezvous. The troops having left Mexico, he ordered Don Pedro d' Alar- 
con to tiepart for La Nativitad, on the coasts of the " Southern Sea," and 
with two vessels to go to Jalisco to take the supplies which the soldiers 
could not transport. After performing that duty he was to follow the 
march of the army along the coast, for it was believed, according to the 
then received accounts, that the army would never be distant from the 
vessels, and would always be in easy communication with them by 
means of the rivers.t 

All these dispositions having been made, the viceroy departed for 
Compostella with a large body of gentlefolks. Everywhere he was re- 
ceived with great eclatj and when he reached Compostella he found the 
army well lodged and entertained by Christoval d'Ouate, captain general 
of that country. 

He reviewed the troops, by whom he was received with great rejoic- 
ing, and the next day after mass harangued them. He told them of 
their duties and of the advantageous result that this conquest would 
produce, not only on their fortunes, but by the conversion of the nations 
they would conquer, as well as for the service of his Majesty, who on 
his side i)romised them his bounty and additional favors. Finally he 
caused every one to be sworn on a missal containing the Holy Evangels 
not to abandon their general and to obey all his commands. 

The next day the army with banners flying took up the line of march. 
For two days the viceroy accompanied it, and then returned to Mexico. 
No sooner, however, had the viceroj' left the army than it began to ex- 
perience all the hardships incident to a wild, mountainous country. The 
baggage had to be transported on horses, and, as many soldiers had 
never been accustomed to load them, they made sorry work of it. The 
consequence was that a great deal of their baggage was abandoned, and 
in order to get along at all many a gentleman had to become a mule- 
teer, and they who shirked from this necessary labor were regarded by 
their companions as lacking spirit. 

Coronado arriving at Cliiametta with his army, met at that point 
Captains Melchior Diaz and Juan de Saldibar, who with a dozen reso- 
lute men, by Coronado's orders, had explored the country as far as Chi- 
chilticale, which is on the border of the desert and two hundred leagues 
from Culiacan.| These officers gaxe in secret to the general such a dole- 

* Castaueda's Relations, Teruaux Compaus, p. 24. Castaiieda says 1541, but, as Ter- 
naiix Compans has remarked iu a note, he evidently must have made a mistake, for the 
letter of the viceroy to the Emperor Charles V, reporting the organization and xirogress 
of the expedition, hears date April 17, 1540. 

t According to " Los Tres Siglos de Mexico, torn. I, Mexico, 1836," p. 129, "Meudoga 
dispatched Alarcou, with t^vvo ships, to observe the coast as far as the 36th degree of. 
latitude, with instructions to make frequent embarkations and to join the army at that 
height." 

t Castaneda gives in one place two hundred leagues as the distance ; and in another, 
two hundred and twenty leagues. See his Kel. Ternaux Comi^aus' Col., pj). 12, 29. 



COEONADOS MARCH. 3^3 

fill account of the country tliey had passed through, that, it leaking out, 
many in the army began to lose heart ; and it was only by Friar Marcos 
de M§a insisting upon it, that the country was a good one, and that 
they should not leave it with empty hands, that they were persuaded to 
continue the march. 

The day after Easter, the army took up its march for Culincan, at 
which place they were well received by the citizens and furnished with 
all necessary supplies. This was the last town inhabited by Spaniards, 
and, therefore, the last from which they could gather provisions, except 
from the Indians with whom they might meet in their furtlier march. 
It is represented by Castafieda, as being two hundred and ten leagues 
from the city of Mexico.* 

After resting a couple of weeks at Culiacan, Coronado led the advance 
of his army, consisting of fifty cavaliers, a few infantry, his particular 
friends, and the monks, leaving the rest of the army with orders to march 
a fortnight after, and to follow his path. As Oastaiieda, describing his 
progress, exx)resses it, " when the general had passed through all the 
inhabited region to Chichilticale, where the desert begins, and saw that 
there was nothing good, he could not repress his sadness, notwithstanding 
the marvels which were jiromised further on. No one save the Indians 
who accompanied the negro had seen them, and already on many occa- 
sions they had been caught in lies. He was especially afiiicted to find this 
Chichilticale, of which so much had been boasted, to be a single, ruined, 
and roofless house, which at one time seemed to have been fortified. It 
was easy to see that this house, which was built of red earth, was the 
work of civilized people who had come from afar. 

" On quitting this place they entered the desert. At the end of fif- 
teen days they came within eight leagues of Cibola, on the banks of a 
river which they named Vermejo, in consequence of its red and troubled 
water. Mullets resembling those of Spain were found in it. It was 
there that the first Indians of the country were discovered; but when 
these saw the Spaniards they fled and gave the alarm. During the night 
of the succeeding day, when not more than two leagues from the village, 
some Indians who were concealed suddenly uttered such iiiercing cries 
that our soldiers became alarmed, notwithstanding they pretended not 
to regard it as a surprise ; and there were even some who saddled their 
horses the wrong way, but these wei'e men who belonged to the new 
levies. The best warriors mounted their horses and scoured the coun- 
try. The Indians, who knew the land, escaped easily, and not one of 
them was taken. Od the following day, in good order, we entered the 
inhabited country. Cibola was the first village we discovered ; on be- 
holding it the army broke forth with maledictions on Friar Marcos de 
Niga. God grant that he may feel none of them ! 

" Cibola is built on a rock ; this village is so small that, in truth, there 
are many farms in New Spain that make a better appearance. It may 
contain two hundred warriors. The houses are built in three or four 
stories 5 they are small, not spacious, and have no courts, as a single 
court serves for a whole quart'er. The inhabitants of the province were 
united there. It is composed of seven towns, some of which are larger 
and better fortified than Cibola. These Indians, ranged in good order, 
awaited us at some distance from the village. They were very loth to 
accept peace ; when they were required to do so by our interpreters, 
they menaced us by their gestures. Shouting our war-cry of Sant lago, 
we charged upon and quickly caused them to fly. 

* Castaueda's Eel., Ternaux Compans' Col., -p. 149. 



314 COEONADOS MARCH. 

" Nerertlieless, it was necessary to get possession of Cibola, wliicTi was 
no eas3" achievement, for ^the road leading to it was both narrow and 
winding. The general was knocked down by the blow of a stone as he 
monnted in the assault, and he would have been slain had it not been 
for Garci Lopez de Cardenas and Hernando d'Alvarado, who threw them- 
selves before him and received the blows of the stones which were de- 
signed for him and fell in large numbers ; nevertheless, as it is impos- 
sible to resist the first impetuous charge of Spaniards, the village 
was gained in less than ai) hour. It was found filled with in^ovisious 
which were much needed, and, in a short time the whole province was 
forced to accept peace."* 

The main army, wliich had been left at Culiacan under the command 
of Don Tristan" d'Arellauo, followed Coronado as directed by him, 
every one marching on foot, with lance in hand and carrying supplies. 
All the horses Avere laden. Slowly and with much fatigue, after estab- 
lishing and colouizing Sonora, and endeavoring to find the vessels under 
Alarcon already retterred to, by descending the river, in which they 
failed, the army reached Cibola. Here they found quarters prepared 
for them and rejoiced in the reunion of the troops, with the exception 
of certain captains and soldiers who had been detached on explorations. 

Meantime, Captain Melchior Diaz, who had been left at Sonora, placed 
himself at the head of twenty-five choice men, and under the lead of 
guides directed his steps towards the southwest in hopes of discovering 
the coasts. His course was probably down the Eio Sonora, and not 
finding the vessels there he doubtless marched northward, keeping as 
close "to the coast as the rivers would penuit him. After traveling 
about one hundred and fifty leaguest it appears he arrived in a country 
in which there was a large river, called Eio del Tizon, whose mouth was 
two leagues wide. Here the captain learned that the vessels under 
Alarcon had been on the sea-coast, at a distance of three days' journey 
from that place. In the language of Castaheda, " When he reached the 
spot that was indicated, and v>^hich was' on the bank of the river more 
than fifteen leagues from its mouth, he found a tree on which 
was written 'Alarcon has come thus far; there are letters at the foot of 
this tree.' They dug and found the letters, which apprised them that 
Alarcon, after having waited a certain length of time at that spot, had 
returned to New Spain, and could not advance further because that 
sea was a gulf ; that it turned around the Isle of the Marquis, which had 
been called the Isle of California, and that California was not an island, 
but a part of land forming the gulf."| 

It appears that after a good deal of difficulty and a threatened attack 
from the natives, the party crossed the Eio del Tizon, on rafts, some five 
or six days' travel higher up, and continued its journey along the coast. 
Quoting from Castaiieda, " When the explorers had crossed the Eio del 
Tizon, they continued following the coast, which at that place turns to- 
ward the southeast, for this gulf penetrates the land directly toward 
the north, and the stream flows exactly toward the mouth from north 
to south." § No better description could be given of the relative posi- 
tion of the Gulf of California, with respect to the Eio Colorado flowing 
into it from the north, than the foregoing. 

This expedition was terminated by the death of Melchior Diaz, which 
occurred in a very singular manner, as follows : " One day a greyhound 
belonging to a soldier attacked some sheep which the Spaniards were 

* Castaueda's Relations, Ternaux Compaus, pp. 40, 41, 42, 43. 

t Castaneda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 49. 

t Castaiicda's Relations, Ternaux Compaus, i^p. 50, 51. § Ibid, p. 104. 



eORONADO'S MARCH. 315 

clriviug with tlieui to serve as food in case of need, wlien Captain Mel- 
cbior Diaz threw his hxnce at the beast, in order to drive him o&. Un- 
fortunately the weapon stuck in the ground with the point uppermost, 
and as Diaz coukl not rein in his horse, who was at a galloj), quickly 
enough, it pierced his thigh through and through, and severed his blad- 
der. The soldiers at once decided to retrace their steps, taking their 
wounded chief with them. The Indians, who were always iai rebellion, 
did not cease attacking them. The captain lived about twenty days, 
during which he was borne along with the utmost difliculty. When, 
at length, he died, all his troops returned in good array, (to Sonora,) 
without the loss of a single man, and after traversing the most dan- 
gerous places."* 

In this connection it may be interesting to give some account of Alar- 
con's discovery of the Eio Colorado. It will be recollected that he was 
ordered by the Viceroy Mendoca to follow the march of the army with 
his vessels along the coast of the Southern Sea, as the Pacific Ocean 
was then called. From his relation to the viceroj^ 1 1 gather the following : 

On the 9th of May, 1510, Fernando Alarcon put to sea from La jSfa- 
tivitad,*in command of two ships, tbe Saint Peter and the Saint Cath- 
erine. He put into the ports of Xalisco and Agnaival, (respectively the 
ports of Compostella and Culiacan,) and finding Coronado and his army 
gone from this last-mentioned place, he continued his course northwardly 
along the coast, taking with him the ship St. Gabriel, which he found 
there laden with supplies for the army. At length arriving towards the 
upper end of what was till then believed to be a strait separating an 
island from the main land, but vvhich he discovered to be a gulf, (the 
Gulf of Cidifornia,) he experienced great difficulty in navigating, even 
with his small boats; and there were some in the expedition, he remarks, 
who lost heart and were anxious to return, as did Captain Francisco de 
IlUva, with his vessels, in a former voyage of discovery. Alarcon, it 
seems, however, had the necessary pluck, and, agreeably to the orders 
of the Viceroy Mendoca, he was determined to make his explorations as 
thoroug'h as possible. After incredible hardships he managed to get 
his vessels to the bottom of the gulf, {^^ cm fond du gidfe.''') Here "he 
found a very great river, the current of which Avas so rapid, that they 
could scarcely stem it. Taking two shallops and leaving the others with 
the ships, and providing himself with some guns of small caliber, ou 
the 2Gtli of Angust, 1510, ho commenced the ascent of the river b}' haul- 
ing the boats with roi)es.| On his way he met a large number of Indians, 

* Castaiiecla's Eelatioos, Ternaux Compans, j). 105. 

tTernaux Corupaus' Coll., p. 299-348. 

t The most reliable iuformation in relation to the Colorado River will bo found in the 
report of Lieutenant Ives's ascent of that stream in 1858. (Ex. Doc. No. — , 36th Con- 
gress, 1st session.) * * * * * *.** •*■ * 

" From his account the region at the mouth of the Colorado is a flat expanse of mud, 
and the channels that afford entrance from the galf are .shifting and changeable. For 
30 miles above the mouth the 'navigation is rendered periodically dangerous by the 
strength and magnitude of the spring tides. 

"Between the tide-water and Fort Yuma, which is 150 miles from the mouth, the 
principal obstructions are sand-bars, continually shifting, having in some places but 
two feet of water upon them. There are no rocks, but snags are numerous although 
not very dangerous. 

" For 180 miles above Fort Yuma the navigation is similar. The river passes througl 
several chains of hills and mountains, forming gorges or canons, sometimes of a con 
siderable size. In these there is generally a better channel than in the valley. 

" In the next 100 miles gravelly bars are frequent, with many stretches of g'ood river 
and although the bad places are worse, the channel is better than below. For the sue 
ceeding 50 miles there are many swift rapids. The river bed is of coarse gravel and 
sand, and there are some dangerous simken rocks. The Black Canon, which is 25 miles 



316 CORONADO'S MARCH. 

who made signs to him to return down the river, but by good manage- 
ment he so appeased them that he \Yas enabled to reach a distance 
above the mouth of the river, such that in two and a half days, on his 
return to the ships, on account of the swiftness of the current, he made 
the same distance he had in fifteen and a half days in ascending the 
river. On this expedition he learned from the Indians he met, some 
l^articulars of the death of the negro Stephen, before referred to, at 
Cibola, and of there being white persons like themselves at that place, 
who doubtless belonged to Coronado's army. Alarcou was, however, I 
unable to communicate with the army on account of the dei^ert inter- 
vening between them, and the great distance they were apart. 

Eefittiug all his shallops this time for a second voyage up the river, 
he left its mouth on the 14th of September, but was no more successfal 
in this than in his former expedition in communicating with Coronado. 
Having, therefore, reached as far up the river as he thought expedient, 
he planted a cross at that point, and deposited at its foot some letters, 
in the hope that some persons of Coronado's army, searching for news 
of the vessels, might find them. These letters, it has already been stated, 
were found by Melchior Diaz on the liio del Tizon, called by Alarcou 
the " Bon Guide," after the device of his lordship Don Antonio do Meu- 
doca, and at the present day the Rio Colorado. 

At the end of Alarcon's relation to the viceroy he reports that he 
found the latitude, as given by the " patrons and pilots of the Marquis 
del Valie," VN^rong by tv>'0 degrees; that he had gone further by four de- 
grees than they, and that he had ascended the river a distance of eighty- 
five leagues.* This report of Alarcon's is veTj interesting from its great 
particularity and the many incidents it gives of the expedition ; it shows 
also that he was fully equal to the trust committed to him, and that 
no explorer could have done more to carry out the orders of the Viceroy 
Mendo^a. 

We will now return to the army under Coronado, at Cibola. This 
general immediately set to work to explore the adjacent country. Hear- 
ing there was a province in which there were seven towns similar to 
those of Cibola, he dispatched ijither Don Pedro de Tobar with seven- 
teen horsemen, three or four soldiers, and Friar Juan de Padilla, a Fran- 
ciscan, who had been a soldier in his youth, to explore it. " The rumor 
had spread among its inhabitants that Cibola was captured by a very 
ferocious race of people who bestrode horses that devoured men, and as 
they knew nothing of horses, this information filled them with the greatest 
astonishment."t They, however, made some show of resistance to the 
invaders in their approach to their towns, but the Spaniards charging 
ui)on them with vigor, many were killed, when the remainder fled to tbe 
houses and sued for peace, offering, as an inducement, presents of cotton 
stuff, tanned hides, flour, pine nuts, maize, native fowls, and some 
turquoises. 

These people informing the Spaniards of a" great river on which there 

long, is now reached, and in it the rapids are nnmerous and dillicnlt. Calville is sonie 
six miles above the head of this canon." (Letter of General A. A. Hnniphreys, Chief 
of Corps of Engineers United States Army, to Secretary of War, June 24, 1868, in his 
annual report for 1863, part 2, p. 1195.) 

* Alarcon's orders from the Viceroy Meudoga, as before stated, in a note, were to 
explore as high as the oGth degree of latitude. According to his own account of the 
distance he Avent up the Eio del Tizon, (Colorado,) he must have exi>h>red as far as 
about the 34th degree, and if ho went no higher up than where Melchior Diaz found 
the tree, at the foot of which were letters from Alarcou, showing that there was the 
highest point to which he had attained, the highest latitude he reached must have been 
only about the 33d degree. 

tCastaiieda's Relations, Teruaux Compans, p. 59. 



coRON ado's march. 317 

■were Indians living, who were very tall, a report of the same on his 
return to Cibola was made by Don Pedro de Tobar to Coronado, who 
sent out another party consisting of twelve men, under Don Garci-Lopez 
de Cardenas, to explore this river. It appears from CastaSeda's Rela- 
tions that the party passed through Tusayan again on its way to the 
river and obtained from its inhabitants the necessary supplies and 
guides. 

After a journey of twenty days through a desert it seems they reached 
the river, whose banks were so liigh that, as Castaiieda expresses it, 
" they thought themselves elevated three or four leagues in the air.'' 
For three days they marched along the banks of the river, hoping always 
to find a downward path to the water, which from their elevation did 
not seem more than a yard in width, but which according to the Indi- 
ans' account was more than half a league broad. But their etibrts to 
descend were all made in vain. Two or three days afterward, having 
approached a place where the descent appeared practicable, the cap- 
tain, Melgosa Juan Galeras, and a soldier, who were the lightest men in 
the party, resolved to make the attempt. They descended until those 
who remained above lost sight of them. They returned in the afternoon 
declaring that they had encountered so many difficulties that they^ could 
not reach the bottom ; for what appeared easy when beheld from aloft, 
was by means so whtn approached. They added that they compassed 
about one-third of the descent, and that from thence, the river already 
seemed very wide, which confirmed what the Indians stated. They 
assured them that some rocks which were seen frym on high, and did 
not appear to be scarcely as tall as a man, were in truth loftier than the 
tower of the cathedral of Seville.* 

Castaiieda, after describing the further progress of the exj^loring party, 
goes on to say: "The river was the Tizon (Colorado.) A spot was 
reached much nearer its source than the crossing of Melcliior Diaz and 
his people (before referred to;) and it was afterward known that the 
Indians which have been spoken of were the same nation that Diaz saw. 
The Spaniards retraced their steps (to Cibola) and this expedition had 
no other result."t 

During the march they met with a cascade falling from a rock. The 
guides said that the white crystals hanging around it were formed of 
salt. They gathered and carried away a quantity^ thereof, which was 
distributed at Cibola.| 

*Foi" 300 miles the cut edges of the table laud rise abruptly, ofteu perpeudicularly, 
from the water's edge, formiug walls from 3,000 to 6,000 feet in height. This is the 
great caiiou of the Colorado, the most magniticent gorge as well as the grandest geo- 
logical section of which we have any knowledge. 

Again, the canon of the Colorado at the mouth of Grand River is but a portion of the 
stupendous chasm which its waters have cut in the strata of the table lauds, and of 
which a general description has been given. At this point its walls have an altitude 
of over 3,000 feet above the Colorado, and the bed of the stream is about 1,200 feet 
above the level of the sea, or 500 feet higher than those in the Black Canon. A few 
miles further east, where the surface of the table lands has an altitude of nearly 7,000 
feet, the dimensions of the canon become far more imj)osing, and its cliffs rise to the 
height of more than a mile above the river. (Report of Lieutenant Joseph C. Ives, 
Corps of Topographical Engineers United States Army, upon the Colorado River, 
1857-58, Senate Ex. Doc. 30th Congress, 1st session. Geology, chapter v, p. 42 ; Chap- 
ter vi, p. 54.) 

t Castalieda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 64. 

t Lieutenant Ives speaks of having found salt on the Flax River, which Cardenas, 
party undoubtedly crossed or followed : 

"At noon to-day we came to the object of our search — a well-beaten Indian trial' 
running toward the north. Camp was pitched at the place where it strikes the Flax 
River, and it is the intention to make the second iittempt to-morrow to penetrate the 
unexplored region. Near l\y are several salt springs, and scattered over the adjacent 
Buiface are crystals of excellent salt." (Report of Lieutenant Ives, j). 117.) 



o|g COEONADO'S MAECn. 

I have tlius briefly described the explorations which were made by 
Coronado aud his captains, as far as Cibola, on the northern edge of the 
great desert northward of Chichilticale ; the branch expedition of Mel- 
chior Diaz from Sonora northwestward to aud around the head of the 
Gulf of California, after crossing the Tizon (Colorado,) in search of the 
vessels ; the exploration of the river Tizon, by Alarcon, in boats 
for a distance of 85 Spanish leagues,* or about 290 miles, above its 
mouth ; the expedition of Don Pedro de Tobar from Cibola to Tusayan, 
lying to the northwest of Cibola twenty-five leagues ; and the exploration 
of Don Garci Lopez de Cardenas from Cibola through Tusayan west- 
wardly to the deeply canoued river Tizon. I shall now give in as few 
words as I can some account of Coronado's subsequent exi)lorations to 
the eastward of Cibola. 

While the discoveries above mentioned were being made, some In- 
dians living seventy leagues towards the east, in a province called Cicuye, 
arrived at Cibola. There was with them a Cacique, surname Bigotes 
(Mustaches) on account of his wearing these long appendages. They 
had heard of the Spaniards, and came to offer their services and their 
friendship. They olfered gifts of tanned skins, shields, and helmets, 
which the general reciprocated by giving them necklaces of glass beads, 
and bells, which they had never before beheld. They informed him of 
cows, because one of these Indians had one painted on his body." Cas- 
taueda goes on to say, but "we would never have guessed it, from 
seeing the skins of these animals, for they are covered with a frizzled 
hair, which resembles wool;"t thus showing that they certainly were 
buffaloes. 

The general ordered Captain Hernando d'Alvarado to take twenty 
men and to accompany these Indians, but to return in eighty days to ren- 
der an account of what he might have seen. Alvarado departed with 
them^ aud "five days after they arrived at a village named Acuco, built 
on a rock. The inhabitants, who are able to send about two hundred 
warriors into the field, are the most formidable brigands in the province. 
This village was very strongly posted, inasmuch as it was reached by 
only one path, and vfas built upon a rock i^recipitous on all its other 
sides, aud at such a height that the ball from an arquebuse could scarcely 
reach its summit. It was entered by a stairway cut by the hand of man, 
which began at the bottom of the declivitous rock and led up to the vil- 
lage. This stairway was of suitable width for the first twa hundred 
steps, but after these there were a hundred more much narrower, and 
when the top was finally to be reached it was necessary to scramble up 
the three last toises by placing the feet in holes scraped in the rock, and 
as the ascender could scarcely make the iioint of his toe enter them he 
was forced to cling to the precipice with his hands. On the summit 
there was a great arsenal of huge stones, which the defenders, without 
exposing themselves, could roll down on the assailants, so that no army, 
no matter what its strength might be, could force this passage. There 
was on the top a sufficient space of ground to cultivate and store a large 
supply of corn, as well as cisterns to contain water and snow."| 

The Indians here, as at Tusayan, traced lines on the ground, and for- 
bade the S^jauiards to pass over them 5 but seeing the latter disposed 

* Common Spanish league equals 3.42 American miles. (United States Ordnance 
Mantial.) 

t Castancda'a Eolations, Teruaux Compans, p. 68. " II est ici la question des bisons, que 
I'auteur nomme toujours vacas. Je me servirai dordnavant du mot de bison." (Note 
by Tcrnaux Compans.) 

t Castancda's Eolations, Ternaus Compans, pp. 68, 69, 70. 



MARCH. 3 [ 9 

for au attivck, tliey quickly sued for peace, and presented to their con- 
querors a supply of birds' bread, tanned deer-skins, pine-nuts, seeds, 
flour, and corn. 

Three days' journey thence Captain Alvarado and party reached a 
province called Tiguex, where, on account of Bigotes, whom the inhab- 
itants knew, they were received very kindly ; and the captain was 80 
well lileased with what he saw that he sent a messenger to Coronado 
inviting him to winter in that country, which pleased the general greatly, 
as it made him believe that his affairs were growing better. 

Five days' journey thence, Alvarado reached Cicuye, a village very 
strongly fortified, and whose houses had four stories. He reposed here 
with his party some days, when he fell in with an "Indian slave who 
was a native of the county adjacent to Florida, the interior of which 
Fernando de Soto had lately explored."* 

This Indian, whom they called il Turco, (the Turk,) on account of his 
resemblance to the people of that nation, spoke of certain large towns, 
and of large stores of gold and silver in his country, t- and also of the 
country of the bisons, (buffaloes.) Alvarado took him as a guide to the 
bison country, and after he had seen a few of them he returned to Tig- 
uex to give an account of the news to Coronado. 

In the order of events, Coronado, who had remained at Cibola with 
the main body of the army, hearing of a province composed of eight 
towns, took with him thirty of the most hardy of his men and set out 
to "sisit it on his vray to Tiguex. In eight or eleven days (the narrative 
is here obscure) he reached this province, called Tutahaco, which ap- 
pears to have been situated on the Eio de Tiguex, below the cit}^ of Tig- 
uex, for CastaQeda expressly states that he afterward ascended the 
river and visited the whole province until he arrived at Tiguex. The 
eight villages compoj^ing this pro\'ince were not like thpse of Cibola, 
built of stone, but of earth. He also learned of other villages still fur- 
ther down the river. 

'• On his arrival at Tiguex, Coronado found Hernando d'Alvarado 
with the Turk, and was not a little pleased with the news they gave 
him. This Indian told him that in his country there was a river two 
leagues wide, in which fish as large as horses were found ; that there 
were canoes with twenty oarsmen on each side, which were also pro- 
pelled by sails ; that the lords of the laud were seated in their sterns, 
upon a da'is, while a large golden eagle was affixed to their prows. He 
added that the sovereign of this region took his siesta beneath a huge 
tree, to whose branches golden bells were hung, which were rung by 
the agitation of the summer breeze. He declared, moreover, that the 
commonest vessels were of sculptured silver ; that the bowls, plates, and 
dishes were of gold. He called gold acochis. He was believed because 
he spoke with great assurance, and because when some trinkets of cop- 
per were shown him he smelt them, and said they were not gold. 
He knew gold and silver very weU, and made no account of the other 
metals. The general sent Hernando d'Alvarado to Cicuye to reclaim 
the golden bracelets which the Turk pretended had been taken from 
him when he was made prisoner. When Alvarado arrived there the 
inhabitants received him kindly, as they had done before, but they pos- 

' Castaneda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 72. The basin of the Mississippi River 
and tributaries, in former daj-s, were inchided in Florida by the Spaniards. (See note, 
p. 90.) 

tThe country of Quivira, which Coronada, as will be seen in the sequel, visited, and 
which, being adjacent to Florida, ae stated above, must have been situated in the coun- 
try tributary to the Missoiui or Mississippi, and not near the Rio Grande, as some com- 
mentators have supposed. 



320 CORONADO'S MARCH. 

itively aflBrmed tliat they liad no knowledge of the bracelets, and they 
assured him that the Turk was a great liar, who deceived him. Alva- 
rado, seeing- there was nothing else he could do, lured the chief, Bigotes, 
and the Cacique under his tent, and caused them to be chained. The 
inhabitants reproached the captain with being a man without faith or 
friendship, and launched a shower of arrows on him. Alvarado con- 
ducted these prisoners to Tiguex, where the general retained them more 
than six months."* 

This alfair seems to have been the beginning of Corouado's troubles 
with the Indians, which were subsequently increased by his exacting 
a large quantity of clothing, which he divided among his sohliers. 

Two weeks after Corouado left Cibola for Tiguex, agreeably to his 
orders, the army under the command of Don Tristan d' Arellano took up 
its march from that place for Tiguex. The first day they reached the 
handsomest, and largest village in the province, where they lodged. 
" There they found houses of se\'en stories, which were seen no- 
where else. These belonged to private individuals, and served as 
fortresses. They rise so far above the others that they have the appear- 
ance of towers. There are embrasures and loop-holes from which lances 
may be thrown and the place defended. As all these villages have no 
streets, all the roofs are flat, and common for all the inhabitants ; it is 
therefore necessary to take possession, first of all, of those large houses 
which serve as defenses." t 

The army passed near the great rock of Acuco, already described, 
where they were well received by the inhabitants of the city perched 
on its summit. 

Finally it reached Tiguex, where it was well received and lodged. 
The good news given by the Turk cast their past fatigues into oblivion, 
though the whole province was found in open revolt, and not without 
cause, for on the preceding day the Spaniards had burnt a village ; and 
we have already seen that the imprisonment of Bigotes and the Turk, 
and the exactions of clothing by Coronada, had also very greatly exas- 
perated them. The result of all this was that the Indians generally re- 
volted, as they said, on account of the bad faith of the Spaniards, and 
the latter retaliated by burning some of their villages, killing a large 
number of the natives, and at last laying siege to and capturing Tiguex. 
This siege lasted fifty days, and was terminated at the close of 1540.| 

After the siege the general dispatched a captain to Chia, which had 
sent in its submission. It was a large and populous village, four leagues 
west of the Tiguex Eiver. Six other Spaniards went to Quirix, a prov- 
ince comi)osed of seven villages. All these villages were at length 
tranquilized by the assiduous eifbrts of the Spaniards to regain the 
confidence which they had justly lost by their repeated breaches of 
faith ; but no assurances that could be given to the twelve villages in the 
province of Tiguex would induce tliem to return to their homes so long 
as the Siianiards remained in the country ; and no wonder, for no more 
barbarous treachery was ever shown to a submissive foe than had been 
shown to these Tigueans by these faithless Spaniards. 

So soon as the Tiguex Eiver, (Eio Grande,) which had been frozen for 
four months, was sufficiently free from ice, the army took up its march 
on the 5th of May, 1541, to Quivira, in search of the gold and silver which 

^Castaneda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, pp. 76, 77, 76. 

tCastaueda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 80. 

tCastafleda says 1542, evidently an error, as may be ascertained by accounting for 
the time consumed by the army in its march from Chiametla, which it left on the next 
day after Easter, 1540. (See ante, p. 12.) 



coEON ado's march. 321 

the Turk had said conld be fouud there. Its route was via Cicuy6, 
twenty-five leagues distant. The fourth day after leaving Cicuye and 
crossing some mountains it reached a large and very deep river, which 
passed prett\^ near to Cicuye, and was therefore called the Eio de Cicuye. 
Here it was delayed four days to build a bridge. Ten days after, on 
their march, they discovered some tents of tanned buffalo skins, inhabited 
by Indians who were like Arabs, and who were called Querechaos; 
continuing their march in a northeastwardly direction they soon came 
to a village in which Cabeca de Vaca and Dorantes (mentioned in the 
first part of this paper) had" passed through on their way from Florida 
to Mexico.* The army met with and killed an incrediible number of 
buftal0;t and after reaching a point 250 leagues (850 miles) from Tiguex, 
the provision giving out, Coronado, with thirty horsemen and six foot- 
soldiers, continued his march in search of Quivira, while the rest of the 
army returned to Tiguex under the commandof Don Tristan d'Arellano. 
The narrative goes on to say : " The guides conducted the general to 
Quivira in forty-eight days, for they had traveled too much in the direc- 
tion of Florida. At Quivira they found neither gold nor silver, and 
learning from the Turk that he had, at the instance of the i)eople of 
Cicuye, purposely decoyed the armj' far into the plains to kill the horses, 
and thus make the men helpless and fall an easy prej" to the natives, 
and that all he had said about the great quantity of silver and gold to 
be found there was false, they strangled him. The Indians of^this 
region, so far from having large quantities of gold and silver, did not 
even know these metals. The Cacique wore on his breast a copper i)late, 
of which he made a great i^arade, which he would not have done had he 
known anything about those precious metals. The army, as stated 
above, retreated to Tiguex before reaching Quivira. They took as 
, guides some Teyaus, through whose country they were i)assing, and 
were led back by a much more direct way than that they pursued in 
coming. These Teyans were a nomadic nation, and being constantly in 
the pursuit of game knew the country perfectly." It is narrated they 
guided the army thus : Every morning they watched to note where the 
sun rose, and directed their way by shooting an arrow in advance, and 
then before reaching this arrow they discharged another; in this way 
they marked the whole of their route to the spot where Avater was to be 
found, and where they encami^ed. "The army consumed only twenty- 

*" It will be recollected that it was on Information given by these persons and two 
others, Maldonado and the negro Estevan, that this expedition was fonnded. (See 
ante p. 310.) 

t The following minute and graphic description of the buffalo, seen by Coronado and 
his army, is taken from Gomara, as quoted in Haklnyt's Voyages, vol. iii. " Tiieso oxen 
are of the bigness and color of our bulls, but their horns are not so great. They have 
a great bunch upon their fore-shoulders, and more hair upon their fore part than on 
their hinder part ; and it is like wool. They have, as it were, a horse mane upon their 
back bone, and nuich hair, and very long from the knees downward. They luive great 
tufts of hair hanging down their foreheads, and it secmeth they liave beards, because 
of the great store of hair hanging down at their chins and throats. The males have 
very long tails, and a great knob or flock at the end, so that in some res^iects they 
resemble the lion, and in some other the camel. They push with their horns, they run, 
they overtake and kill a horse when they are in their rage and anger. Finally, it is a 
fierce beast of countenance and form of body. The horses lied from them, either be- 
cause of their deformed shape, or else because they had never seen them. Their mas- 
ters ho,ve no other riches nor substance ; of them they eat, they drink, they apparel, 
they shoe themselves ; and of their hides they make many things, as houses, shoes, 
apparel, and ropes ; of their bones they make bodkins ; of their sinews and hair, thread ; 
of their horns, maws and bladders, vessels ; of their dung, lire ; and of their calf skins, 
budgets, wherein they draw and keep water. To be short, they make so many thinga 
of them as they have need of, or as may suffice them in the use of this life." 

21 SG9 



322 COEONADO'S MARCH. 

five days on the jouruej^, and even tlien mucli time was lost. The first 
time it had taken thirty-seven days."* 

" On the road they passed a great number of salt marshes where there 
was a considerable quantity of salt. Pieces longer than tables and four 
or five inches tbiclc were seen floating on the surface. On the plains 
they found an immense number of small animals resembling squirrels, 
and numerous holes burrowed by them in the earth."! These animals 
were most unquestionably the little prairie-dogs whose villages have 
been so naively described by Washington Irving and George Wilkius 
Kendall. On this march the army reached the river Cicuye, more than 
thirty leagues, below the place where they had before crossed it by a 
bridge. They then ascended the river, by following the banks, to the 
town of Cicuye. The guides declared tbat this river, the Cicuye, (no 
doubt tlie Pecos,) at a distance of more than twenty days' journey, 
threw itself into that of Tiguex, (the Eio Grande,) and that subsequently 
it flowed toward the east. Castaneda goes on to say: "It is believed 
that it (the Tiguex) joins the great river of Espiritu Sancto (Mississippi 
Eiver) that the party of Hernando de Soto discovered in Florida." | 

The army under Arellano reaching Tiguex, on its return from the 
prairies in the month of July, 154:1, this officer immediately ordered 
Captain Francisco de Barrio-Nuevo to ascend the Eio de Tiguex (Eio 
Grande) in another direction with some soldiers on an exploring expe- 
ditioai. They reached the provinces, one of which, comprising seven 
villages, was called Hemes ; the other, Yuque- Yuuque. 

Twenty leagues (68 miles) further in ascending the river, they came to 
a large and powerful village named Braba, to which the Spaniards gave 
thQ new title of Valladolid. " It was built on the two banks of the river, 
which v/as crossed by bridges built with nicely-squared timber." § The 
country was very high and cold. From Braba the exploring party re- 
turned to Tiguex. Another party, it seems, went down the llio de Tig- 
uex (liio Grande) eighty leagues, where they discovered four large vil- 
lages, and " reached a place where the river i^lunged beneath the ground ; 
but inasmuch as their orders confined them to a distance of eighty leagues, 
they did noti^ushon to the place where, according to the Indians' accounts, 
this stream escaijes again from tbe earth with considerably augmented 
volume." II 

* Castaueda's Eelatious, pp. 133, 134. 

t Castaueda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 134. 

t" Various names of the Mississippi River. — I remember to Lave seen in the 
course of my reading tbe following Indian, Spanish, and French names applied to the 
river Mississippi ; and it may be "svell to record them in your magazine for preserva- 
tion, and probably to bo augmented in number by other students of American history : 

"Indian names. — Mico — king of rivers; Mescha-Sibi-Mescha, great and Sibi Eiver; 
Namosi-Sipon — Fish River ; Okimo-chitto — Great Water path— a Choctii name ; Missee- 
seepe ; Meact-chassipi — old father of rivers, according to Du Pratz; Malbouchia, 
according to Iberville. 

" French. — Riviere de St. Louis ; Riviere de Colbert ; Mississippi. 

"Sjiariish. — Eio Grande; Eio Grande del Espmtu Santo; Eio de la Eulata ; Eio de la 
Palisada ; Eio do Chuchaqua. 

" The Vernci Ptolemy of 1513 lays it down, or, at least, marks a river without a name, 
at the site of its embouchure. Orlbus Typis, 151.5 ; Pineda's map, 1519 ; other Ptolemies, 
1525 ; Cabega do Vaca saw it iu 1528. De Soto crossed it in Juno, 1541, and died in 
Louisiana, on the west bank of the Mississippi, opposite the mouth of the Big Black 
Eiver, May 21, 1542. 

"BEANTZ MAYEE. 

"Baltimore, October 15, 1857." 

— (See Historical Magazine, vol. 1, p. 342.) 

§ Castaueda's Relations, Ternaux Com^ians, p. 139. 

II Castaueda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 140. Mr. Albert Gallatin, commenting 
on this passage, «ays : " The assertion that the river was lost under groimd was a mistake. 



CORONADOS MARCH. 323 

We sliall now return to Coronado, whom we left at Quivira. It appears 
that, ill consequence of his not arriving at Tignex at the expected time, 
Don Tristan d'AreUauo set out in search of him with forty horsemen. 
At Cicuye the inhabitants attacked Don Tristan, by which he was de- 
layed four days. Hearing of the ai)proach of Coronado, he contented 
himself with guarding the passes in the vicinity of the village till the 
arrival of the general. Castaiieda says that, '• notwithstanding he had 
good guides, and was not incumbered with baggage, Coronado was forty 
days in making the journey from Quivira."* From Cicuye he journeyed 
to Tiguex, where he went into winter quarters, wi^h the intention in the 
spring of pursuing his discoveries by pushing his whole army toward 
Quivira. 

"When winter was over Coronada ordered the preparation to be made 
for the march to Quivira. Every one then began to make his arrange- 
ments. Nevertheless, as often happens in the Indies, things did not 
turn out as people intended, but as God pleased. One day of festival 
the general went forth on horseback, as was his custom, to run at the 
ring with Don Pedro Maldonado. He was mounted on an excellent 
horse, but his valets having changed the girth of his saddle and having 
taken a rotten one, it broke in mid-course and the rider unfortunately 
fell near Don Pedro, whose horse was in full career, and in s])ringing 
over his body kicked him in the head, thus inflicting an injury which 
keirt him a long while in bed and placed him within two lingers of 
death."+ 

The result of this was that being of a superstitious nature and hav- 
ing been foretold by a certain mathematician of Salamanca, who was 
his friend, that he should one day find himself the omnipotent lord of a 
distant country, but that he" should have a fall which would cause his 
death, he w^as very anxious to hasten home to die near his wife and 
children. From this time, Castaiieda states, that Coronado, feigning 
himself to be more ill than he was, worked upon his soldiery in so subtle 
a way as to induce the greater part of them to petition him to return to 
New Spain. They then began openly to declare their belief that it was 
better to return, inasmuch as no rich country* had been found, and it 
was not populous enough to distribute it among the army. The general, 
finding no one to oppose him, took up his line of march on his return to 

This was, undoubtedly, the place in latitude 31° 39', where the Rio del Norte, cutting 
through the mouutains, empties into a deei> and impassable canon, from which it emerges 
some distance below, as has been before stated." (See Transactions of American Ethno- 
logical Society, vol. ii, p. 71.) 

Mr. Gallatin, though usually very judicious in his remarks, I think is at fault here. 
The cause of the river disappearing at the point referred to, and then appeariiig again 
further down, was not on account of its entering a canon, which the Sjianiards could 
have noticed and not been deceived about, but because the Rio Tiguex, (Rio Grande,) 
like most of the rivers which I have seen on the plains and in New Mexico, is liable, 
when very low, to be lost in its sandy bed, and then to appear again further down, where 
the sand is not sufficient to absorb it. It is on this account, as I have seen, when the 
heat of the sun added its potent influence to cause a river to disappear through the 
day, that during the night, when this influence did not prevail, it would again appeal 
a running stream. 

Humboldt refers to a disappearance of the Rio Grande, which appears to have taken 
place about the same localitj*, and also attributes it to a wrong cause. " The inhab- 
itants of Paso del Norte preserve the memory of a very extraordinary event which 
occurred in the year 1752. They saw, all at once, the river become dry, thirty leagues 
above, and more than twenty leagues below. El Paso ; the water of the river precipi- 
tated itself iu a newly-formed crevasse, and did not appear again above ground until 
you reach the Presidio de San Elezario." (Huml)oldt's Essai Politique Sur le Royaume 
de la Nouvelle Hispagne, edition 1811, p. 303.) 

* Castaueda's Relations, Teruaux Compans, p. 142. 

t Castaueda's Relations, Teruaux Compaus, p. 202. 



324 coRON ado's march. 

Mexico in the be^uning of April, 1542. He returned by the way of 
Cibola and Chichiltieale, as he had come. At length, after skirmishing 
with the Indians, in which a number of their men and horses were killed, 
the army reached Culiacan. From this place Coronado 'departed for the 
city of Mexico, to make his report to the viceroy, only about one hun- 
dred of his army continuing with him, " Castaueda says' he was badly 
received by the viceroy, who nevertheless gave him a discharge; yet he 
lost his, reputation and soon after his government of K ew Galicia also."* 
Thus ended this great expedition, which for extent in distance trav- 
eled, duration in time,Aextending from the spring of 1540 to the summer 
of 1542, or more than two years, and the multiplicity of its cooperating 
branch explorations, equaled, if it did not exceed, any land exijedition 
that has been undertaken in modern times. 



Having given a general account of the routes pursued by Coronado 
and his army and of the track of the transport vessels under Alar- 
con, I will now proceed to fix definitely, so far as I have been enabled, 
the position of the several important places mentioned by Castaiieda 
and other chroniclers. 

The first important point after leaving the city of Mexico is Compos- 
tella, where the army rendezvoused preparatory to its setting out on its 
expedition. This point reached, the army, in an organized condition, 
took up its line of march along the foot of the west base of the Sierra 
Nevada in the direction, west of north, as far as Sonora, on the Sonora 
Eiver ; from this place its course was most in'obably more directly 
towards Chichiltieale, or northerly, through the mountains, as far as 
the plains of the lower portion of the Eio Santa Cruz, over which it 
continued its march to Chichiltieale. 

The towns of Compostella, Culiacan, Cinaloa, and Sonora, points of 
the routes, are laid down from the " military map of the United States," 
recently issued from the office of the Chief of Engineers United States 
War Department. The other i)oints are laid down from data obtained 
as follows: Chiametla, from "American Atlas, by Mr. Thomas Jeffreys, 
London, A. D. 1775;" Petatlan,30 leagues north of Culiacan accordiug 
to Castaiieda,t and four days' journey accordiug to Jaramillo.f 

With regard to the position of the town of Corazones, it is difficult, on 
account of the vagueness of the narratives of Jaramillo and Coronado, to 
fix it. Jaramillo speaks of it as having been situated about five days' 
journey northwardly from the Yaquemi Eiver, and conveys the idea 
that it" was near or on the Eio Sonora.§ Castaiieda says, " in the lower 
part of the valley of Sonora is that of the Corazones, inhabited by 
Spaniards." II Again, "Don Tristan decided to found and colonize a 
town called San Hieronimo de los Corazones ; but seeing that it could not 
prosper in this valley, he transferred it to a place called Senora, 

*CastauecTa's Relations, Teruaux Compaus, p. 227. Gomora says, " It grieved Don 
Antonio de Mendoga very mncli that the army returned home, for he had spent about 
three-score thousand pesos of gold in tlie enterprise and owed a great part thereof still. 
Many sought to have dwelt there, but Francisco Vasquez de Coronado, Avho was rich 
and lately married a fair wife, would not consent, saying that they could not maintain 
nor defend themselves in so i)oor a country and so far from succor. They traveled 
about 900 leagues in this country." (The rest of the voyage to Acuco, Tiguex, Cicuic, 
and Quivira, from the General History of the West Indies, by Francis Loi)ez de Gomora, 
as quoted by Hakluyt, vol. iii.) 

t Castaiieda's Eolations, Ternaux Compans, p. 223. 

t Jaramillo's Relations, p. 365. 

^ Jaramillo's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 366. 

II Castaiieda's Relations, p. 157. 



COKONADO'S MARCH. 325 

(Sonora,) aiicl it lias been so called to this day."'* Aijain, in another 
part of liis Relations, describing the places betv/een the Sonora Eiver 
and Chichilticale, he informs ns that "it was forty leagnes from Sonora 
to the valley of the Snya, where was fonnded the city of San Hier- 
onimo."t Now, my idea is, that the town of Corazones on the Sonora 
Eiver was Sonora, so called because it was eminently the town of the 
province of Corazones, in which it was situated; and that San Hieronimo 
de los Corazones was situated, according to,Corouado,.ten or twelve 
leagues from the sea,| and, as above stated, forty leagues from Sonora, 
on the Snya River; which would i^lace it about where I have located it, 
on a river which is now called the San Ignacio.t 

From Sonora the march was, according to Jaramilio, four days to the 
!N"expa River. Jaramilio says: "Affer leaving Sonora we made a journey 
of four days in a desert, and arrived af'another stream, which we under- 
stood was called Nexpa. We descended the stream two days, and we 
quitted it to the right at a foot of a chain of mountains, which we 
followed two days. They told us that it was called Chichilticale. After 
having left the mountains we came to a deep creek, the banks of which 
were escarped. After quitting this stream, which is beyond the Nexpa 
of which I have spoken, we took a northeast direction," &c.|| 

Now the Nexpa, the stream they descended two days. I believe was 
the Santa Cruz, running in a northerly direction, (the proper direction 
of their march ;) the mountains, at the foot of which they also traveled 
two days, were the " Santa Catarina Mountains ;" and the stream which 
they then reached was the Gila, whose deep bed and escarped banks so 
■ exactly cortespond with the descrijition given by Jaramillo.fj 

The next important place was Chichilticale. Here was the Casa 
Grande of which so much had been reported, and here the army com- 
menced its march northeastwardly across the great desert, on the f;\Y 
side of which were the seven cities of Cibola. That the Casa Grande 
was so situated, with regard to Cibola, there is no dispute ; but of its 
exact location there is some question. 

Castaiieda says: "At Chichilticale the country ceases to be covered 
with thorny trees, and changes its aspect ; it is there the gulf terminates, 
and the coast turns fCest la que le (joJfe se termine ef que la cote tourne;J 
the mountains follow the same direction, and they must be crossed to 
reach the plains again."** 

* Castaneda's Relations, p. 44. t Ibid., p. 158. 

t The sea (Gulf of California) returnetli towards the west, right against the Corazones, 
the space often or twelve leagues. (Coronado's Rel., Hakluyt, vol. iii, p. 448.) 

§In this connection it may be pertinent to remark, that San Iliei'onimo de los Cora- 
zones, which seems to have been a sort of depot, was transferred to Sonora ; but appears 
still to have been kept as a post, for wo are told that some of its garrison deserted it, 
for, among other reasons, that they looked on it as useless, " for the road to New Spain 
passed by a more favorable direction, leaving Suya to the right." This will account 
for two routes being laid down on the accomi)anyiug map between Souora and the 
Nexpa River. 

II Jaramillo's Relations, Temaux Compans, pp. 367 and 363. 

^ Mr. E. G. Squier supposes the Nexpa to have been the Rio Gila. His language is : 
"Allowing 30 miles to the day's march, which is about the average imder favorable 
circumstances, we have 120 miles as the distance between the point on the Sonora 
River left by Coronado in his advance and Chichilticale, between longitudes 109° and 
110°. This is, according to the best maps, about the distance between the Sonora River 
and the Gila, called Nexpa by the chronicler." (American Review for November, 1848, 
p. 6.) 

I cannot agi-ee with Mr. Squier in the foregoing statement, for the reason that the 
distance between the Sonora River and the Gila, according to the latest map issued by 
the Engineer Department of the Army, is not 120 miles, but as much as 290 miles ; and, 
therefore, as many as eight or ten days' journey instead of four. 

** Castaneda's Relations, Teruaux Compans, p, 100. 



326 CORONADO'S MARCH. 

Now this certainly shows that CastaSeda believed Ghichilticale was 
situated at the head of the Gulf of California. But according? to Coro- 
nado's report to the viceroy Mendo^a, this assuredly was not the case; 
for he says: "I departed for the Corazones, and always kept by the sea- 
coast as near as I could judge, and, in very deed, I still found myself 
the farther off, in such sort that, when I arrived at Ghichilticale, I found 
myself ten days' journey from the sea, and the father provincial (Marcos 
de Niga) said that it was only five leagues distant, and he had seen the 
same. We all conceived great grief, and were not a little confounded, 
when we saw that we found everything contrary to the information 
which he had given to your lordship."* 

In another i^lace, Coronado states that the transport ships which had 
been ordered to cooperate with him had been seen off the country of 
the Corazones, on their way to " discover the haven of Ghichilticale, 
which Marcos de Niga said was in five-aud-thirtj^ degrees."t 

The above certainly shows that both De Ni^a and Castaiieda at one 
time believed that Ghichilticale was at the head of the gulf; and it is 
probable that both the transport vessels and army were ordered to 
communicate with each other at that point, on the sui^position that it 
was a good harbor, and would be a cai)ital place for a depot of supplies 
before entering the great desert^ But Coronado's report eft'ectually 
explodes the idea of its having been found such; and if there were more 
proof on this point needed, it would appear in the fact that neither 
Alarcon, who commanded the fleet and passed up the Colorado River in 
search of the army, nor Melchior Diaz, who explored all around the 
head of the gulf, make any mention of having seen the place, which 
they most assuredly would have done had they passed anywhere near it. 

But where was the exact location of Ghichilticale ? In my opinion it 
was on the Eio Gila at Gasa Grande, in latitude 33° 4' 21" north, and 
longitude 111° 45' west from Greenwich, and the following are my 
reasons therefor: 

It is distinctly stated by Castaiieda that the place was marked by a 
Casa Grande, which, though then in ruins on account of having been 
destroyed by the natives, had evidently been used as a fortress ; that it had 
been built of red earth, and was evidently the work of a civilized people 
who had come from a distance.^ 

Now, the first ruin to be seen on the Gila, ascending it from its mouth, 
and the only one along its whole course which bears any resemblance 
to that mentioned by Castaiieda, and of which we have anj' record, is 
that described by Father Font, who, with Father Garces, saw it in 1775, 

*Hakluyt's Voyages, vol. iii, p. 448. tibitl. 

I Castaueda's Relations, pp. 40, 161, 162. Mr. Morgan, in a foot-note to his paper 
before referred to, says : " There is no ruin on the Gila at the present time that answers 
the above description," and seems to have come to this conclusion, because Captain A. 
R. Johnston, United States Army, in his journal, (U. S. Ex. Doc. No. 41, 1848, p. 596,) 
says, " The house was built of a sort of white earth and pebbles, probably containing 
lime." Emory merely says, '• The walls were formed of layers of mud," (Thirtietli Con- 
gress, First Session, Ex. Doc. No. 7, p. 82;) and Bartlett in his Personal Narrative, p. 
272, informs us that " The walls are laid with large square blocks, and the material is 
the mud of the valley mixed with gravel." 

Mr. N. H. Hutton, civil engineer, assistant to Lieutenant Whipple, in his explorations 
for the Pacific Raih'oad in 1853-'54, and at present my assistant, assures me that he has 
seen the localitj^ and the ruins, and that the Casa had evidently been built of the earth 
in the vicinity, which is of a reddish color, though in certain reflections of the same the 
building appeared whitish, on account of the pebbles contained in the mass. Castaueda 
in his Relations, p. 41, says : " Cette maisou, construite en terre rouge;" and p. 161, 
" La terre de ces pays est rouge." In addition, what more natural than that 
Emory and Bartlett, finding the color of the building nothing difierent from that of the 
soil in that region, should fail to say anything about it ? 



CORON ado's march. 327 

on tlieir journey to Monterey and the port of San Francisco, and which 
same ruin was subsequently visited and described by Emory, of the Corps 
of Topographical Engineers, in 1847. 

Father Font's description of it is as follows : 

'• On the 3d of October, 1775, the commandant ordered us to halt, in 
order that we might visit the Casa Grande, known by the name of Monte- 
suma, situated one league from the Eio Gila. We were accompanied by 
some Indians, and by the governor of Uturituc, who related to us on 
the way the tradition he had received from his ancestors about this 
house, some of the i^articulars of which are doubtless fabulous and others 
again true. 

'• The latitude of the localitv we found by an observation of the sun to 
be 33^o. - 

" The Casa Grande, or iialace of Montesuma, must have been built tive 
hundred years previously, (in the thirteenth century.) if we are to believe 
the accounts given by the Indians; for it a])pears to have been con- 
structed by the Mexicans at the epoch of their emigration when the 
devil, conducting them through different countries, led them to the 
promised land of Mexico. The house is seventy feet from north to south, 
and fifty from east to west.* The interior walls are four feet iu thick- 
ness ; they are well constructed ; the exterior walls are six feet thick. 
The edifice is constructed of earth, in blocks of different thickness, and 
has three stories. We found no traces of stairways ; we think they 
must have been burnt when the Apaches burnt this edifice." t 

Emory'S description, evidently of this same building — for the old maps 
place Father Font's Casa Grande on the Eio Gila, just above the Pima 
village, where Emory locates it — is as follows : " About the time of 
noon halt, a large pile which seemed the work of human hands was 
seen to the left. It was the remains of a three-story mud-house sixty 
feet square, pierced for doors and windows. The whole interior of the 
house had been burnt out, and the walls much .defaced.''! 

This description, though not precisely the same as that of Father 
Font, yet is sufficiently close, with the identity of the location, as before 
stated, to show that they have reference to the same building. ISTow, 
Emory by astronomical observation found the latitude of his camp near 
this locality to be 33° 4' 21" north, and the longitude west from Green- 
wich 111° 15'. Father Font, as before stated, determined the latitude 
to be 33^-": but as Emory had, without doubt, far superior instruments, 
his results are preferable. 

We have then, as we think, located Chichilticale, the site of Casa 
Grande, with a strong probability of accuracy. 

On Squier's map of Coronado's route, accompanying the paper on this 
subject, in the Transactions of the Ethnological Society, (vol. 2,) by 
Albert Gallatin, I perceive that he makes Coronado to cross the Gila at 
Casa Grande, but places the latter in about latitude 32°, and longitude 
110°; or more' than a degree too far south, and nearly- two degrees too 
far to the east. iSTow, as Juan Jaramillo, who was a captain in Coro- 
nado's ex])edition, in his rejjort says the general direction of their march 
from Chichilticale to Cibola was northeast,§ a line drawn from Chichil- 

* A Spanish foot is 0.91319 of an English foot. (United States Oixluance Manual.) 

t Journal of Father Font, of the college of Santa Cruz of Queretaro. ApjMMidix VII, ' 
Casteneda's Relations, Temaux Compans' Collections ; see also Humboldt's " Essai Poli- 
tique Sur la Royaume de la Nouvelle Espagne," edition of 1811, i)p. 36, 297, 2dS. 

t Xotes of a military reconnoissauce made by Lieutenant Colonel Willuim H. Emory, 
Corps of Topographical Engineers, in 1846-47, with the advance guard of the Army of 
the West, p. 8'i. 

§ Juan Jaramillo's Relations, Ternaux Compans' Collections, pp. 308, 369 



328 CORONADO'S MARCH. 

ticale as laid down on Squier's map would not pass tlirougli or near 
Zuiii, (ideutical on his map with Cibola,) as it ought to do, but more 
than a degree to the east of it; thus showing his position of Chichilticale 
manifestly erroneous. 

Again, on the map of E. EC. Kern, accompanying " Schoolcraft's History 
of the Indian Tribes of North America," he places Chichilticale as much 
as a degree of latitude south of the Gila and in longitude lO'Jo. Here 
again a liue in a northeast direction from Chichilticale would not pass, 
as it should, through or near ZuQi, (identical, as Kern thinks, with Ci- 
bola,) but more than two degrees to the eastward of it ; which also shows 
his position of Chichilticale very considerably out of the way. 



The next and most important inquiry is the exact locality of the seven 
cities of Cibola. Gallatin, Squier, Whipple, Professor' Turner, and 
Kern, have contended for ZuQi and its vicinity. Emory and Abert, on 
the contrary, have conjectured that CiboUetta, Moquino, Pojuati, Covero, 
Acoma, Laguna, and Poblacon, a group of villages some ninety miles to 
the eastward of Zuui, furnish the site of the seven cities ; and Mr. Mor- 
gan, as I have before remarked, in the North American Eeview for 
April, 18G9, has advanced the idea that the ruins on the Chaco, lying 
about one hundred miles to the northeast of Zuiii, more com])letely 
satisfy all the conditions of the problem Avhich the accounts of Coron- 
ado's journey, by CastaQeda and others, have imposed on its solution. 
To my mind, however, Zuni and vicinity present the strongest claims 
to being considered the site of the renowned cities, and the following 
are my reasons therefor : 

It seems that from Chichilticale to Cibola, the direction of Corouado's 
route, according to Jaramillo, as before remarked, was generally north- 
east ; and from Corouado's report I. extract in relation to it as follows. 
He is sp,eaking of what occurred after leaving Chichilticale : 

"I entered the confines of the desert, on Saint John's day eve, and to 
refresh our former travels we found no grass, but worser way of moun- 
tains and bad passages where we had passed already ; and the horses 
being tired were greatly molested therewith ; but after Ave had passed 
these thirty leagues, we found fresh rivers and grasses like that of Cas- 
tile, &c.; and there was flax, but chiefly near the banks of a certain 
river, which, therefore, was called El Kio del Lino, that is to say, the 
Eiver of Flax ; we found no Indians at all for a day's travel, but after- 
ward four Indians came out unto us in peaceable manner, saying that 
they were sent over to that desert place to signify unto us that we were 
welcome." * 

In addition to the foregoing, CastaQeda says that in about fifteen days 
from Chichilticale " they arrived within eight leagues of Cibola, upon 
the banks of a river they called the Vermejo, on account of its red 
color ;"t and Jaramillo remarks that in approaching Cibola " always in 
the same direction, that is to say, toward the northeast, they came to a 
river which they called the Vermejo ; that here they met one or two In- 
dians, who afterwards they recognized as belonging to the first village 
of Cibola ; and that they reached this village in two days from when 
they had first met them.''| 

Now let any one consult the accompanying map, reduced from the 
latest map issued by the Engineer Bureau at Washington, ahd he will 

* Hakluyt's Voyages, vol. iii, p. 449. 
tCastaucda's Relations, Teruaux C'ompans, p. 41. 
t Jaramillo's Relations, Teruanx Compans, p. 369. 



CORONADO'S MARCH. 329 

see tbat Coronado's march from Chicliilticale, or Casa Grande, must 
have been very nearly coincident with the route there hiid down, to wit: 
in a northeasterly direction for the first thirty leagues, over the rough 
Pinal and Mogollon Mountains ; and then getting on the tributaries of 
the Eio del Lino, or Flax Eiver, where he fouud " fresh water and grasses,"' 
he followed up the Vermejo, or Colorado River, to Cibola, or Zuni of the 
present day and its vicinity, where he fouud the other six cities. The 
distance by such route, between Chichilticale and Zuhi, would be about 
270 miles, or require a, journey of 17 days, (about 10 miles a day,) the 
time it took Coronado to accomplish the distance ;* and this agrees quite 
exactly with the distance, 80 leagues, as given by Castaheda in another 
j)lace,t 

But there are other good reasons for this belief. At Zuhi and its 
vicinity, within a distance of about 10 miles, and on the banks of the 
Vermejo, or Little Colorado River, there are the ruins of as many as six 
pueblos, all showing that they were once built of stone ; and, witli the 
present Zuhi, doubtless they constituted the "seven cities" which, ac- 
cording to Coronado, were all built "within four leagues together," | 
and according to Castaueda were "situated in a very narrow valley be- 
tween des ALontagnes U^carjJees,''^ which may have been intended to 
mean escarped mesas, or table lands, just as close in the valley of the 
Little Colorado or Rio de Zuiii. 

In my report to the Chief of Topographical Engineers of my recon- 
noissance made in the Navajo country in 1818, I described Zuni as fol- 
lows : " The pueblo of Zuiii, when first seen about three miles off, appeared 
like a low ridge of brownish rocks, not a tree being visible to relieve 
the nakedness of its appearance. It is a pueblo or Indian town, situ- 
ated on the Rio de Zuhi. This river at the town has a bed of about 150 
yards wide. The stream, however, at the time we saw it, only showed a 
breadth of about feet and a depth of a few inches. It is represented 
as running into the Colorado of the West. The town, like Santo Do- 
mingo, is built terrace-shaped, each story — of which there are generally 
three — as you ascend being smaller laterally, so that one story answers, 
in fact, for the platform of the one above it. It, however, is far more 
compact than Santo Domingo, its streets benig narrow, and in places 
presenting the appearance of tunnels or covered ways, on account of 
the houses extending at these places over them."|| 

iiieutenant A. W. Whipple, Corps Topographical Engineers, visited 
the ruins of old Zuni in 1853-'51, and in his report to the War Depart- 
ment thus describes the place : " We took a trail and procee<led two 
miles south to a deep canon, where were springs of water. Thence by 
a zigzag course we led our mules u^) the first bench of ascent. At vari- 
ous points of the ascent, where a projecting rock permitted, were barri- 
cades of stone walls, from which, the old man (his guide) told us, they 
had hurled rocks upon the invading Spaniards. Having ascended, 
according to our estimate, 1,000 feet, we found ourselves upon a level 
surface covered with thick cedars. The top of the mesa was of an irregu- 
lar figure a mile in width, and bounded on all sides by perpendicular 
cliffs. Three times we crossed it, searching in vain for the trace of a 

* Castaneda's Relations, pp. 41, 42. 

tjibid., p. 188. 

t CoronacTo's Relations, Halduyt, vol. iii, p. 451. 

§ Castaneda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 164. 

II " Jonrnal of a military reconnoissaiice from Santa F6, New Mexico, to tlie Navajo 
country, made by Lieutenant J. H. Simpson, Corps of Topographical Engineers, in 
1849," United States Senate Ex. Doc. No. 64, 31st Congress, Ist session, 1850 ; also, Lip- 
pincott, Grambo & Co., PMadelphia, 1852, pp. 89 and 90. 



330 CORONADO'S MARCH. 

ruin. But the guide hurried us on half a mile further, when appeared 
the ruins of a city indeed. Crumbling- walls from 2 to 12 feet high were 
crowded together in confused heaps over several acres of ground. Upon 
examining the pueblo Ave found that the standing walls rested upon 
ruins of greater antiquity. The i^rimitive masonry, as well as we could 
judge, must have been about feet thick. The more recent was not 
more than a foot, but the small sandstone blocks had been laid in mud 
mortar with considerable care."* 

Kow I take it that old ZuQi was one of the seven towns of Cibola, 
called by Coronado " Grenada, because it was somewhat like to it;"t and 
the narrow winding way, ascending which Coronado was knocked down 
by stones hurled upon him by the defenders,! was in all probability the 
very zigzag approach mentioned by Whipple, and which he found so 
dif&cult in his ascent to the ruins. 

The other six towns were doubtless ZuSi of the present day, and those 
whose ruins are to be found still further up the valley, showing they had 
been stone structures, and to which I refer in my report before referred 
to, as follows: "Within a few yards of us are several heaps of pueblo 
ruins. Two of them, on examination, I found to be of elliptical shape 
and approximating 1,000 feet in circuit. The buildings seem to have 
been chiefly built on the periphery of an ellipse, having a large interior 
court; but their style and the details of their construction, except that 
they were built of stone and mud mortar, are not distinguishable in the 
general mass. The areas of each are now so overgrown with bushes and 
so much commingled with mother earth as, except on critical examina- 
tion, to be scarcely distinguishable from natural mounds. The usual 
quantum of ^lottery lies scattered around. The governor of ZuSi, who 
is again on a visit to us, informs us that the ruins I have just described, 
as also those seen a couple of miles back, are the ruins of pueblos which 
his people formerly inhabited."! 

There are other circumstances of relative position of places which 
point most indubitably to the same conclusion, as follows : Castaneda 
repeatedly states that CUbola was the first inhabited province they met 
going north from Chichilticale after they crossed the desert, and the last 
they left before entering the desert on their return to Mexico. Again, 
the present relations to each other of Zuiii and the Moqui Pueblos, and 
£llso of Acoma, perched on a mesa height, in regard to courses and dis- 
tances tally sufflciently near with the positions of Tusayan and Acuco, 
as given by Castaheda, namely, the former noi'thwest 25 leagues and the 
latter eastwardly five days' journey from Cibola, || as to make it exceed- 
ingly probable that they refer to the same localities.^ Again, Castauedo, 

* Pacific R. R. Reports, vol. iii, pp. 68, 69. 

t Coronado's Relation, Hakluyt, vol. iii, p. 451. 

t " Cepeiulaut il fallait s'emparer de Cibola co qui n'6tait pas chose focile, car le 
chemin qui y conduissat 6tait 6troit et tortueux. Le Geudral ftit renvers6 d'un coup 
de pierre en montant a I'assaut," &c. Castaueda's Rel., Tcrnaux Compans, p. 43. 

§ Simpson's Journal, p. 97. 

II Castaneda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, pp. 58, 67, 68, 69, 70, 165. 

ilMr. Sqoier, in his article on the "Ancient Monuments, &c., in New Mexico and Cal- 
ifornia," in American Review for November, 1848, gives the position of Tus.ayan from 
Cibola, both northeast and northwest from Cibola, and on his map accompanying Mr. 
Albert Gallatin's Essay, in the Transactions of the American Ethnological Society, vol. 
ii, he has placed it in a northeast direction. The proper direction of Tusayan with 
regard to Cibola is northwest. (See Castafieda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 165.) 
Besides Cardenas, on his way to the Rio del Tizon, (Colorado,) passed through Tusayan 
from Cibola, which makes it all verj^ natural if Tusayan was northwest from Cibola, 
but would not be so if it was in a northeast direction, as laid down on Mr. Squier'a 
map. 



CORONADO'S MARCH. 331 

describing the valley in wliicli the province of Cibola was situated, 
saj'S, "Cest iine valine tres-etroite entre des montagnes esearpees,"* 
which is au exact description of the valley of the Eio de Zuili, confined 
between the walls of inclosing mesas.' Again, Jaraniillo says " this first 
village of Cibola is exposed a little towards the northeast, and to the 
northwest in about five days' journey is a province of seven villages 
called Tusayan,t all of which exactly accords with the exposed position 
to the northeast of old ZuGi and correctly describes the location of the 
Moqui villages. 

But there is some historical evidence upon this point which I consider 
irrefragable, and which certainly makes Zufd and Cibola identical places. 

Referring to the relation of a notable journey made by Antonio de 
Espejo to New Mexico, in 1583, to be found in Hakluyt's Voyages, vol. 
iii, I read as follows: "Antonio de Espejo also visited Acoma, situated 
upon a high rock which was about 50 paces high, having no other en- 
trance but by a ladder or pair of stairs hewn into the same rock, whereat 
our people marveled not a little. 

" Twenty-five leagues from hence, toward the west, they came to a 
certain i^rovince called by the inhabitants themselves ZuGi, and by the 
Spaniards Cibola, containing a great number of Indians, in which pro- 
vince Francisco Yasquez de Coronado had been, and had erected nmny 
crosses and other tokens of Christianity, which remained as yet stand- 
ing. Here also they found three Indian Christians who^ had remained 
there ever since the said journey, whose names were Andrew de Culia- 
can, Gaspar de Mexico, and Antonio de Guadalajara, who had about 
forgotten their language, but could speak the country speech very well ; 
howbeit after some small conference with our men they easily under- 
stood one another." 

Now turning to Castaneda's Eelations, where he gives an account of 
Coronado's leaving the country for Mexico, I find his language as fol- 
lows : " When the army arrived at Cibola it rested for a while to pre- 
l^are itself for entering the desert, for it is the last point inhabited. We 
left the country .entirely peaceful ; tliere were some Indians from Mexico 
who had accompanied us, who remained there and established them- 
selves, (il y eut meme quelques Indiens du Mexique qui nous avaieni ac- 
compagnes, qui y resterent et s'y etablirent.")| 

Thus it would seem that the two accounts, of Espejo and Castaheda 
correspond in such a manner as not to leave the slightest doubt that 
ZuQi of the present day is the Cibola of old. Coronado left three of 
his men at Cibola, who were found living there by Espejo and his party 
forty years afterwards ; they had nearly forgotten their original lan- 
guage, but yet, after awhile, managed to converse with some of Espejo's 
men. What more natural, and, indeed, what could have been a more 
interesting topic than the adventures of these men ; how they got there, 
and whether Zuiii was veritably the far-famed Cibola that forty years 
previously had excited the attention of the governments of New and 
Old Spain. Espejo, under the above circumstances, reporting that the 
Spaniards called Zuiii Cibola, certainly could not have meant anything 
else than that he believed it veritably such. I have been thus particu- 
lar with regard to this testimony, for the reason that Mr. Morgan, in his 
essay already referred to, while he recognizes the historical foct of Zuiii 
having been called by the Spaniards, according to Espejo's Eelations, 
Cibola, in 1583, yet advances the idea that after all Espejo ijrobably 

* Castaneda's Relations, Ternaus Compans, p. 164. 
t Jaraniillo's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 370. 
t Castaneda's Relations, Ternaus Comx^ans, p. 217. 



332 coRON ado's march. 

only meant to express that tliey conjectured tlie places to liave been 
identical. 

It seems to me that ^vhat I have advanced shows most conclusively 
that Cibola and Zuni are identical localities, and nothing could be said 
whicli could make it more certain; but as corroborative I wili state that I 
have seen in the excellent library of the Peabody Institute of Baltimore 
an atlas entitled " The American Atlas, or a Geographical Description 
of the whole Continent of America, by Mr. Thomas Jeffreys, Geogra- 
pher, published in London in 1773." On map No. 5 of this atlas, Zuhi 
and Cibola are laid down as synonymous names, and the locality they 
express is precisely that of Zuni of the present day.* Again, on a 
" Carte contenant le Eoyaume du Mexique etLa Floride," in the " Atlas 
Historique par Mr. C * * * avec des dissertations sur I'Histoire de 
chaque etat par Mr. Guendeville," tome vi, second edition, published 
in Amsterdam, 1732, I find Ziiiii and Cibola laid down as synonymous. 

In this connection it may be proper to observe that the claims of Ci- 
boletta, Moquino, Poquate, Covero, Acomo, Laguna, Poblacon, as con- 
jectured by Emory and Abert to be regarded as the seven cities of 
Cibola, are rendered null hy the historical fact mentioned by Castaiieda, 
and also hy Jaramillo, that the latter were situated on the Ilio Vermejo, 
(Little Colorado,) a tributary of the Southern Ocean ;t and also by the 
circumstance of the army, on its march from Cibola to Tiguex, finding 
Acuco (Acoma) five days' journey to the eastward of Cibola, a circum- 
stance which could not have taken place if Acuco (Acoma) were one of 
the seven towns of Cibola. Besides, Castaiieda, in ^numerating the 
villages dispersed in the country, expressly states that " Cibola is the 
first province ; it contains seven villages ; Tusay an, seven; the rock of 
Acuco, one, &c.,f which certainly shows that Cibola and Acuco were 
separate and district provinces. 

Again, I cannot see that the ruins of the Chaco, which, according to 
my explorations and reading are probabl}^ on account of their extent 
and character, the most remarkable yet discovered in this country, have 
any just claims, as advanced by Mr. Morgan, to be regarded as the seven 
cities of Cibola ;§ first, for the reason that they are not, as required by 
historical fact, situated on the Eio Vermejo, (Little Colorado,) or tribu- 
tary of the Eio del Lino or Flax Eiver; second, they are not so situated 
with regard to the desert passed over by Coronado, between Chichilticale 
and Cibola, as to make the statement of Castaiieda pertinent, to wit, 

* On tliis atlas is iudorsed, " Presented, to the Peabody Institute by the Hon. John P. 
Kennedy, April 1, 1864. By this map the great dispute between Daniel Webster and 
Lord Ashburtou (relating doubtless to the northeastern boundary) was settled, iiarticu- 
larly by maj) No. 5." 

t " All the streams we met, whether rivulet or river, as far as that of Cibola, and I 
believe even one or two days' journey beyond that place, flow in the direction of the 
South Sea, (Mer du Sud,) 'meaning the Pacific Ocean ;" further on they flow to the 
North Sea, (Mer du Nord,) meaning the Gulf of Mexico. Jaramillo's Relations, Ternanx 
Compans, p. 370. 

t Castaneda's Relations, Ternanx Compans, pp. 181, 182. 

§ Mr. Morgan, in his essay before referred to, having already made large extracts 
from my report to the Government on these ruins, I deem it unnecessary to say any- 
thing further in relation to them than to refer the reader for a more detailed account 
to said report. It is interesting, however, in this coimection, to present the following 
extract from Humboldt's Essai sur le Royanme de la Nouvelle Esjiague, page 30.3, which 
in all probability refers to these very ruins : "The Indian traditions inform us that 
some twenty leagues to the north of Moqui, near the embouchure of the river Zejuannes, 
a river of the Navajos, was the first resting place (demeure) of the Aztecs after their 
Bortie from Atzlan." Again, on his map accompanying his Essay, is the following: 
" Premiere demeure des Azteques sortds d' Atzlan en 1160, tradition in certaine," in lon- 
gitude about II203O", latitude 37°. 



CORONADO'S MARCH. 333 

that Cibola was the first village to be met after passing the desert, and 
the last on leaving the peopled country to enter the desert; third, the 
Moqni villages (undoubtedly Tusayan) do not lie to the northwest from 
the ruins on the Chaco, as they should do if these ruins were Cibola, but 
to the south of west; and fourth, the route of Coronado's army eastward 
from there to Cicuye, by the way of Acuco, (Acorn a,) would have been 
very much and unnecessarily out of the proper direction. 

Mr. Morgan mentions the fact stated by Coronado, that it was eight 
days' journey from Cibola to the buffalo range. This, he thinks, could 
very well have taken place on the hypothesis of the Chaco ruins having 
been Cibola, but not on the supposition of Zuiii. But the distance of 
Zuiii to the buffalo range east of the Eio Pecos is only about 230 miles, 
which certainly could have been reached in eight days, allowing the 
journey be does of 30 miles per day. 

But to proceed with the principal points of Coronado's route eastward 
from Cibola. I believe that all authorities who have written on the 
subject concur in the view that the Pueblo of Acoma, or Hak-koo-kee- 
ah, as it is now called in the Zuiii language, is the xVcuco of Colorado. * 

The singular coincidence of the names, as well as the striking resem- 
blance of the two places as described by Castaiieda and Abert, which 
cannot be predicated of any other place in New Mexico, together with 
the proper relation of Ac6ma to Zuni (Cibola) and Tiguex in distance 
and direction, all show that they are identical, t 

The next province Coronado entered was that of Tiguex. Mr. Gallatin 
has located it on the Eio Puerco. His language relating to it is as fol- 
lows: ''Having comi^ared those several accounts (of Castaiieda and 
Jaramillo) with Lieutenant Abert's map and with that of Mr. Gregg, it 

* Lieutenant Colonel J. H. Eaton, United States Army, writing on this subject, re- 
marks: "In a conversation witlr a very intelligent Zuiii Indian I learned that the 
Pueblo of Acoma is called in the Zuui tongue Hak-koo-kec-ah, (Acuco,) and this name 
was given to me without any previous question which would serve to give him an idea 
of this old Spanish name. Does not this, therefore, seem to give color to the hypothesis 
that Coronado's army passed by or near to the present Pueblo of Zuui, and that it was 
their Cibola, or one of the seven cities of Cibola." (Schoolcraft's History of the Indian 
Tribes of the United States, part iv, p. 220.) 

t The following graphic description of Acoma is from Abert : " After a journey of 1.5 
miles we arrived at Acoma. High on a lofty rock of sandstone, such as I have de- 
scribed,- sits the city of Acoma. On the northern side of the rock the rude boreal blasts 
have heaped up the sand so as to form a practical ascent for some distance ; the rest of 
the way is through solid rock. At one place a singular opening or narrow way is 
formed between a huge, square tower of rock and the perpendicular face of the clitf. 
Then the road Avinds round like a spiral stairway; and the Indians have, in some way, 
fixed logs of wood in the rock, radiating from a vertical axis, like steps. These afford 
foothold to man and beast in clambering n\). 

''We were constantly meeting and passing Indians, who had their 'burros' laden 
with peaches. At last wo reached the top of the rock, which was nearly level, and con- 
tains about sixty acres. Here we saw a large church, and several continuous blocks of 
buildings, containing sixty or seventy houses in each block. (The wall at the side that 
faced outward was unbroken, and had no windows until near the top. The houses 
were three stories high.) In front, each story retreated back as it ascended, so as to 
leave a platform along the whole front of the story. Thesf; platforms are guarded i>y 
parapet walls about three feet high. In order to gain admittance you ascend to tho 
second story by means of ladders. The next story i^ gained by the same means ; but 
to reach the 'azotia,' or roof, the partition Avails on the platform that separates the 
quarters of different families have tjcen formed into steps. This makes (piito a narrow 
staircase, as the w.alls arc not more than one foot in width." (Report of Lieutenant .J. 
"W. Abert, Corps Topographical Engineers, of his examination of New Mexico in the 
years 184(3-47, Ex. Doc. 41, 30th Congress, 1st session, pp. 470, 471.) 



334 coEON ado's march. 

appears to me probable that the Tiguex country lay, not on the main 
llio Norte, but on its tributary, the Ilio Puerco and its branches, and 
that the river which the Spaniards called Cicuye, and on which they 
were obliged to build a bridge, was the main Rio del Norte."* 

Mr. W. H.Davis, author of "El Gringo; or New Mexico and her 
People," published in 1853, tahes the same view. 

Mr. Squier believes the Rio de Tignex to have been the Rio Grande, 
aiul the Rio de Oicuye the Pecos, but locates Tiguex outhe Rio Grande, 
above the mouth of the Puerco. Messrs. Kern and Morgan take the same 
view. 

According to my investigations I believe the Rio Tiguex to have been 
the Rio Grande, and the Rio de Cicuye the Rio Pecos; but while lam 
willing to admit there are some grounds for the hypothesis that Tiguex 
was located on the Rio Grande above the mouth of the Pnerco, yet I 
think tliere are still stronger grounds for the belief that it was situated 
on the Rio Grande belotc that river. 

Castaneda says, " Three days' journey from Acuco (Acoma) Alvarado 
and his army arrived in a province which was called Tiguex."t 

Again, " The xiroviuce of Tiguex contains twelve villages, situated on 
the banks of a great river in a valley about two leagues broad. It is 
bounded on the west by some mountains, which are very high and cov- 
ered with snOw. Four villages are built at the foot of these mountains 
and three others upon the heights."| 

Now, as Coronado and his army marched eastward § from Acuco, 
^ Acoma,) and they accomplished the distance in a three days' journey 
and then came to a large river, on the banks of which was situated the 
l>rovince of Tiguex, it is clear that as the Rio Grande is the first large 
river to be met eastward from Acuco (Acoma) at a distance varying 
from sixty to eiglity miles, depending on the route taken, this was the 
great river referred to, or the Rio de Tiguex. 

The idea of Mr. Gallatin and Mr. Davis that the Puerco was this river 
is, I think, entirely untenable, for the reason that this river in its best 
stage is only about one hundred and twenty miles long, and frequentl}^, 
as I myself have observed, so dry that its existence could only be in- 
ferred from its dry bed and the occasional pools of water to be met 
along its track. It certainly, then, could not with any propriety be 
called a great river, as the Rio de Tiguex was represented to be. 

In addition, we learn that the guides who conducted the army back 
to Cicuye, on its return from its search after Quivira, declared that the 
Rio de Cicuye threw itself into the Rio de Tiguex more than twenty 
days' journey (or over four hundred miles) below where they struck it;"|| 
which would have been an absurdity if the Tiguex were the trifling Rio 
Puerco, and the Cicuye the Rio Grande, as Mr. Gallatin supposed ; but 
which is all very plain on the hypothesis that the Tiguex was the Rio 
Grande, and the Cicuye the Pecos. 

But where was the exact location of the i)rovince of Tiguex? 

It was certainly beloicHemez and Quirix, (San Felipe,'^]) for the chron- 

* Trausactious American Ethnological Society, vol. 2, p. 73. 

t Castaueda's RelatioDS, Teraaux Compans, p. 71. 

t Custancda's Eelatious, Ternaux Compans, pp. 1G7, IGS. 

§ Ibid, 11. 67. 

II Castaueda's Relations. Ternaux Compans, p. 135. 

il On the old maps, as also on Hnmboldt's, illustrating his " Nouvello Hispagne," I 
notice tbe pueblo of Sau Felipe is laid down as " S. Felipe de Cucrez" which I am in- 
formed is its name at this day. Indeed, Gregg, speaking of certain pueblos in New 
Mexico, says, " those of Cochiti, Santo Domingo, San Felipe, and perhaps Sandia, sf^eak 
the same tongue, though they seem formerly to have been distinguished as Queiis " 
(Commerce of the PrairieS; 2d edition, vol. i, p. 269.) 



CORONADO'S MARCH. 335 

icier states that farther to the north (from Tiguex) is the province of 
Quirix, which contains seven villages ', seven leagues to the north \Yest 
(which may mean from Quirix or Tiguex) tbat of llemcz, which con- 
tains the same number, &c. ; * the text says, " nord-est," but this is 
evidently a mistake, as the oldest maps extant place Hemez where it is 
now situated, on the Eio de Hemez, to the west of the llio Grande. 

The foregoing would seem to show conclusively that Tiguex was sit- 
uated below Quirix, and possibly, under one of the constructions given 
above, only seven leagues or twentj'-four miles below Ilemez, whicu 
would i)lace it on the llio Grande just about the mouth of the Rio de 
Heraez, or about 80 miles above the mouth of the Puerco, where the 
authorities above given have placed it. But yet the extract before 
given from Castaiieda expressly states also that the "Province of Tig- 
uex was situated upon the banks of a great river (Eio de Tiguex) in a 
valley about two leagues broad, and bounded on its west by some very 
high, snowy mountains," &c. j^ow, the only locality which will answer 
this description is that part of the valley of the Eio Grande bounded on j 
its west by the Socorro Mountains, situated just below the mouth of the 
Puerco. These are the first mountains to be met in descending the river 
from Santo Domingo, or from even above that pueblo, (all the intervening 
heights being merely table-lands and therefore not so elevated as to bt 
termed snowy,) and they fix the locality, in my judgment, as 1 have. 
before stated, below the mouth of the Puerco. 

I have, therefore, on my map located the province of Tiguex on the 
Eio Grande below the Eio Puerco, at the foot of the Socorro Mountains, 
which bounds it on its west; and it is somewhat confirmatory of thii 
position that on the map No. 5 of "Thomas Jeffreys' Atlas," before re 
ferred to as excellent authority, I find Tigua, no doubt intended for the 
same place, or province, located in the valley of the Eio Grande, just 
where I have located Tiguex, namely, at the foot of the Socorro Moun- 
tains. 



The next important place in the route of Coronado from Tiguex was 
Cicuye. CastaSedo says : "After a journey of five days from Tiguex, 
Alvarado (with his detachment of twenty men) arrived at Cicuye, a 
very well fortified village, the houses of which are four stories high."t 
Again, "The armyquitted Tiguex on the 5th of May (1531) and took the 
route to Cicuye, which is twenty-five leagues distant."| Jaramillo states 
the direction to have been " northeast."§ In another place Castaiieda 
remarks that " Cicuye is built in a narrow valley, in the mi'dst of moun- 
tains covered with pines. It is traversed by a small stream, in which we 
caught some excellent trout."|| 

Now, all this points, as I believe, to the ruins of Pecos, on the Eio 
Pecos, as the site of Cicuye, and in this I agree with Mr, Squier and 
Mr. Kern. These ruins are in a northeast direction from the supposed 
position of Tiguex, and about five days' jouVney distant. They are 
also situated in a narrow valley in the midst of mountains covered 
with pines, and the site is traversed by a small silvery stream, in which 
may be caught some excellent trout. I certainly know no other place 
that in so many respects suits the conditions of the problem ; but the 

* Castaneda's Relations, Ternaus Compans. 
t Castaneda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 71. 
t Castaneda's Relations, Teruaiix Compans, p. 113. 
^ Jaramillo's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 371. 
11 Castaneda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, j). 179. 



336 coRON ado's march. 

following remark by CastaSeda bas perplexed investigators not a little. 
He remarks, that " when the army quitted Cicnye to go to Quivira we 
entered the mountains, which it was necessary to cross to reacli the 
l^lains, and on the fourth day we arrived at a great river, very deep, 
which passes also near Cicuye. It is for this reason we call it the Rio 
do Cicuye. Here we were ol3liged to build a bridge, which employed us 
four days."* 

The difficulty has been to reconcile the statement that Cicuy6 (Pecos) 
was on or near the Eio Cicuye, and yet that after four days' travel, after 
traversing some mountains in a northeasterly direction, tlie army should 
again cross it by a bridge. 

Now all this, I think, can be reconciled by refereiice to the accom- 
panying map, on which will be found laid down a route, the only one, I 
believe, existing at the present day between Pecos and Las Vegas, on 
the Eio Gallinas, a tributary of the Eio Pecos, where the plains com- 
mence.t The general direction of the road is northeast. It traverses 
some very rough mountains, and the distance between the two Blaces is 
about fifty miles, which might have necessitated, considering the rough- 
ness of the route, a journey of four days, as the conditions require. Be- 
sides, the Gallinas is liable to be flooded from the melting snows of the 
neighboring sierras in the month of May and fore-part of June 5 this 
naturally would make necessary at such times a bridge to cross it. 
Emory, speaking about Las Vegas and its vicinity, says : " As we emerged 
from the hills into the valley of the Vegas, our eyes were greeted for 
the first time with waving corn. The stream (the Gallinas) wasjioodcd, 
and the little drains by which the fields were irrigated full to the brim.'"f 

My idea is, then, that this stream being a tributary of the Pecos and 
larger than the latter at Cicuye, (Pecos,) it was, in all probability, 
called for those reasons the Eio de Cicuye, though the place by this 
name was situated distant from it on another branch of the same river, 
where the ruins of the Pecos village are now to be seen. 

I will also state, as strongly confirmatory of this location of Cicuye, 
that on map No. 5 of the ''American Atlas, by Thomas Jefl'reys, pub- 
lished in 1775," twice before referred to, I find laid down, in about the 
present locality of Pecos, a place named " Sayaqne," which might well 
answer for Cicuye. 

But where was Quivira? "the last" (place,) as Castaiieda remarks, 
" which was visited by Coronado." Mr. Squier, on his map, before re- 
ferred to, has the route pursued by Coronado laid down as extending 
indefinitely in a northeastwardly direction, from Cicuye (Pecos ;) but 
still, in his essay before referred to, says " there is no doubt that Vas- 
quez Coronado penetrated, in 1541, to the region of Gran Quivira, vis- 
ited and described by Gregg ; "§ that is the Quivira which on modern 
maps is laid down in latitude about 34° north, and longitude 10G° west 
from Greenwich, or about 100 miles directly south from Santa Fe. Lieu- 
tenant Abert and Mr. Kern have expressed the same thing; the latter 
locating Coronado's route* not in a northeast direction from Cicuye and 
extending about six hundred miles, as required by the stakaneuts of Cas- 
taiieda, Coronado, and Jaramillo ; but in a direction almost directly the 
reverse — at first eastwardly and then westwardly, so as to make him 
reach a place called Quivira in modern times, but located only about 

* Castaueda's Relations, Ternaux Compaus, pp. 115, 116. 

t This is the only route which for years has beeu taken by travelers and others from 
Fort Leavenworth to Santa Fe. 

X Emory's Report, Ex. Doc. No. 7, 30th Congress, 1st session, p. 26. 
$ American Review for November, 1848, p. 6. 



CORONADO'S MARCH. 337 

one hundred miles from Cicuye (Pecos,) and that almost iu a due south 
direction. 

Mr. Gallatin says, "Coronado appears to have proceeded as far north 
as near the 40° of latitude,"* iu search of Qnivira. 

Again, quotiug; from him, " Quivira, (referring- to that about one hun- 
dred miles south from Santa Fe, in latitude 0!° and lougitude 106°,) about 
fourteen miles east of Abo, was not visited by Lieuteuant Abert; but 
its position was correctly ascertained. It is quite i)robable that the 
place now known by tbat name was the true Quivira of the Indians at 
the time of Coronado's expedition. But whether deceived by a treach- 
erous Indian guide, as they assert, or having not uuderstood what the 
Indians meant, which is quite probable, the Spaniards gave tbe name 
of Quivira to an imaginary countrj' situated north aud represented as 
abounding in gold." t 

Now, it is something singular that, so far as I have been able to inves- 
tigate, there is no such place as Quivira laid down on the old maps in 
the locality where modern maps show it — uamelj-, in latitude 34°, lon- 
gitude 100° ; but there is a place of that name laid down on these mai^s 
in about latitude 40°, as high as Coronado located it. I am therefore 
inclined to believe that at the time of Coronado's expedition the former 
Quivira did not exist. At all events, it is scarcely credible that such a 
remarkable city as Quivira was represented to be, so full of gold, &c., 
situated as it was, only about Jifty miles from T/r/«er, the headquarters of 
Coronado's army, and which might have been reached in two days, could 
have been kept from the knowledge and observation of the army for 
about a year and a half, during all the time that a portion of it was sta- 
tioned at that place. 

Again, Gregg, (an excellent authority,) speaking of the ruins of Qui- 
vira, remarks: " By some persons these ruins have been supposed to be 
the remains of an ancient pueblo, or aboriginal city. That is not proba- 
ble, however, for though the relics of aboriginal temples might possibly 
be mistaken for those of Catholic churches, yet it is not to be presumed 
. that the Spanish coat of arms would be found sculptured and i^aiuted 
on their facades, as is the case in more than one instance." t 

No ; I am of opinion that Coronado and his army marched just as Cas- 
taiieda, Jaramillo, and Coronado have reported ; that is, generally in a 
northeast direction, over extensive plains, through countless herds of 
buffaloes and prairie-dog villages, and at length, after getting in a man- 
ner lost, and finding, as the chronicler says, they had gone " too far 
toward riorida,'-§ that is, to the eastward, and had traveled from Tiguex 
for thirty-seven days, or a distance of between 700 and 800 miles, their 
provisions failing them, the main body turned back to Tiguex ; and 
Coronado, with thirty-six picked men, continued his explorations north- 
wardly to the 40° of latitude, where he reached a i)rovince which the 
Indians called Quivira, iu which he expected to find a city containing 
remarkable houses and stores of gold, but which turned out to be only 
the abode of very wild Indians, who lived in miserable wigwams, and 
knew nothing about gold. 

* Transactions American Ethnological Society, toI. ii, p. 64. -v 

t Ibid., p. 95. 

t Gregg's Commerce of the Prairies, 2d ed., p. 165. 

^ Ou some of the old maps Florida embraces all the country vrest of the Rio Grande 
and south of Canada. See " Athis Historique, jtar Mr. C * * * ; Avec des dissertatfbns 
sur I'Histoire de Chaque 6tat, par Mr. Gnendeville," before alhuled to, published in 
1732. Again, Haklnyt remarks : " The name of Florida was at one time applied to all 
that tract of territory which extends from Canada to the Rio del Norte." (See his 
introduction to " The Discovery and Conquest of Peru by Don Fernando de Soto," p. 10.) 

22 s 69 



338 CORON ado's march. 

Coronado's descrii^tion of the region is as follows : " The province oi 
Quivira is 950 leagues (3,230 miles) from Mexico. The place I have 
reached is the 40° of latitude. The eartli is the best possible for all 
kinds of productions of Spain, for while it is very strong and black, it 
is very well watered by brooks, springs, and rivers. I found prunes 
like those of Spain, some of which were black, also some excellent grapes 
and mulberries." * 

Jaramillo, who accompanied Coronado to Quivira, speaking of this 
region, says : " This country (Quivira) has a superb appearance, and 
such that I have not seen better in all of Spain, neither in Italy nor 
France, nor in any other country where I have been in the service of 
your Majesty. It is not a country of mountains ; there are only some 
hills, some plains, and some streams of very fine water, (des ruis-seaux 
de fort belle eau.) It satisfied me completely. I presume that it is very 
fertile and favorable for the cultivation of all kinds of fruits."t 

In another portion of his Eelations he mentions having crossed a 
large river, to which they gave the name of " Saint Peter and Saint 
Paul," which very i)robably was the Arkansas, and after traveling sev- 
eral days farther north, they came to the i)rovince of Quivira, where 
they learned that there was a still larger river farther on, to which they 
gave the name of "Teucarea," and which I believe to have been the 
Missouri.| 

Again, Castaueda says : " It is in this country (that of Quivira) that 
the Espiritu Sancto, (Mississippi,) which Don Fernando de Soto discov- 
ered in Florida, takes its source. * * * * The course of this river 
is so long, and it receives so many affluents, that it is of prodigious 
length to where it debouches into the sea, and its fresh waters extend 
far out after you have lost sight of the land."§ 

All the authors who have written on this subject seem to have 
discredited Coronado's report that he explored northwardly as far as 
the 40° of north latitude ; but not only do the reports of Castaiieda and 
Jaramillo bear him out in his statement, but the peculiar description of 
the country as given by them all — namely, that it was exceedingly rich ; 
its soil hlacTc ; that it bore, spontaneously, grapes and prunes, (wild 
plums;) was watered by many streams of pure water, «&c.; and the cir- 
cumstance of this kind of country not being found anywhere in the 
probable direction of Coronado's route, except across the Arkansas 
and on the headwaters of the Arkansas Eiver ; all this, together with 
the allusion to a large river, the " Saint Peter and Saint Paul," (proba- 
bly the Arkansas,) which they crossed before reaching Quivira, m lati- 

* Following the orders of your Majesty (Don Antonio de Meudofa,) I have observed the 
best possible treatment toward the natives of this province, and of all others that I 
have traversed. They have nothing to complain of me or my people. I sojourned 
twenty-live days in the j)rovince of Quivira, as much to thoroughly explore the country 
as to see if I could not find some further occa:5ion to servo your Majesty, for tlie guides 
whom I brought with me have spoken of provinces situated still farther on. That 
which I have been able to learn is, that in all this country one can find neither gold 
nor any other metal. They spoke to me of small villages, whose inhabitants for the 
most part do not cultivate the soil. They have huts of hides and of willows, and 
change tbeir places of abode with the vaches (buffaloes.") The tale they told me then 
(that Quivira was a city of extraordinary buildings and full of gold) was false. In 
inducing me to part with all my army to come to this country, tlie Indians thought 
that the country being desert and without water, they would conduct us into places 
wli^fc our horses and ourselves would die of hunger ; that is what the guides have 
confessed. They told that they had acted by the advice of the natives of these coun- 
tries. (Coronado's Relations, Ternaux Compans, pp. 360, 361.) 

t Jaramillo's Relations, Ternaux Compans, p. 378. 

t Jaramillo's Relations, Ternaux Compans, pp. 375, 377. 

$ Castaaeda's Relations, Ternaux Comjians, p. 195. 



CORONADO'S MARCH. 333 

tude 40° north ; and to a still larger river further on (probably the Mis- 
souri) — makes it exceedingly probable that he reached the fortieth degree 
of latitude, or what is now the boundary between the States of Kansas 
and Nebraska, well on towards the Missouri Eiver ; and in this region I 
have terminated his explorations north on the accom])anying map.* 

In regard to the return route of the army of Coronado, which he 
dispatched to Tignex before he reached Quivira, it is expressly men- 
tioned that they passed by some salt ponds, and, as I believe they are 
ouly to be found in that region of country between the Canadian and 
Arkansas Elvers, on the Little Arkansas Eiver, a tributary of the latter, 
in about latitude 37°, and longitude 09°, I have located this route as 
passing by these ponds, with some probability of its being correct.t 

Another point of the return route of the army was where it struck 
the Eio Cicuye, about thirty leagues below the bridge, where it had 
crossed it on their outward march-l 

Besides the provinces I have endeavored to locate there were a num- 
ber, as I have already stated, visited by Coronado, or his officers, which 
■were situated on the Eio Tiguex, (Eio Grande,) or some of its tribu- 
taries, as follows : Quirix, containing seven villages ; in the Snow Mount- 
ains, seven ; Ximena, three ; Chea, one ; Hemes, seven ; Aguas Calien- 
tes, three ; Yuque-yunque of the mountain, six ; Valladolid or Braba, 
one ; Tutahaco, eight. 

Quirix was unquestionably' 8an Phelipe de Queres of the present day; 
Chea, Silla ; Hemes, Hemez ; Aguas Calientes, the ruins which I have 
seen at Ojos Calientes, twelve miles above Hemez, on the Eio de Hemez; 
and Braiia, Taos. The situation of all the places named accord so well 
with that given by Castaheda as to leave but little doubt that they are 
identical. 

In addition, in relation to Braba, Castaheda states that it was the last 
town on the Eio Tiguex, north, and was " built on tlie two banks of a 
stream which was crossed by bridges built of nicely-squared i)ine tim- 
ber." Gregg, speaking of Taos, which is the last pueblo on the Eio 
Grande north of Santa Fe, says : " There still exists a pueblo of Taos, 
composed for the most part of but two edifices of very singular con- 
struction, on each side of a creek, and formerly communicating by a 
bridge. The base story, near 400 feet long and 150 wide, is divided into 
numerous apartments, upon which other tiers of rooms are built, one 
above another, forming a pyramidal ])ile of fifty or sixty feet high, and 
comprising some six or eight stories."§ The identity, therefore, of the 
two places I think certain. 

All the vilages along the Eio de Tiguex, (Eio Grande,) explored by 
Castaiieda. were included in a district thirty leagues (102 miles) broad 
and one hundred and thirty (442 miles) long. 

Castaheda, speaking of the origin of the people who inhabited these 
regions, says: " This circumstance, the customs and form of government 

* This hypothesis is also strengthenecl by the fact that the Turk who guided Coro- 
nado stated that he was " a native of the country on the side of Florida," that is, 
toward the east from the Eio Tiguex, (Eio Grande,) in the valley of which he was at 
that time; that in his country Avas "a river two leagues broad," &c.; and that when 
he reached Quivira he told the Spaniards " that his country was still beyond that." 
(See Castaueda's Relations, Ternaux Compans, pp. 72, 77, 131.) 

t See ante, p. 40. 

t IJetween the outward and return route the Canadian Eiver is deeply canoned for 
fifty miles, which doubtless necessitated the army on its return either to cross it where 
it did when going to Quivira, or at least tifty miles below that point ; and doing the 
latter, it naturally struck the Pecos proportionally lower down from the bridge. 

§ Gregg's Commerce of the Prairies, 2d. ed., vol), ii, j). 277. 



340 CORONADO'S MARCH. ' 

of these nations, wliich are so entirely different from those of all the 
other nations we have found up to the present time, prove that they 
came from the region of the Great India, whose coasts touch those of 
this country on the west. They may have approached by following the 
course of the river after crossing the mountains, and may have there 
fixed themselves in the locations that seemed most advantageous to 
them. As they multiplied they built other villages along the banks, 
until the stream failed them by plunging into the earth. When it 
reappears it flows toward Florida. It is said that there are other villages 
on the banks of this river, but we did not visit them, preferring, accord- 
ing to the Turk's advice, to cross the mountains to its source. I believe 
that great riches would be found in the country whence these Indians 
came. According l.o the route they followed they must have come from 
the extremity of the Eastern India, and from a very unknown region, 
which, according to the conformation of the coast, would be situated far 
in the interior of the land betwixt China and Norway. There must, in 
fact, be an immense distance from one sea to the other, according to the 
form of the coast as it has been discovered by Captain Villalobos, who 
took that direction in seeking for China. The same occurs when we 
follow the coast of Florida; it always approaches Norway up to the 
point where the country ' des baccalaos,' or codfish, is obtained."* 

The foregoing reflections seem crude to us who are better informed 
Avith regard to the geography of the earth's surface; but when we con- 
sider that in the days of Castaheda the whole of that portion of the 
continent lying east of the Eio Grande was called Florida, and but lit- 
tle, if anything, was known of the exact relations of the northern part 
of our continent with the other portions of the world, they do not appear 
irrelevant. 

In conclusion, I think it proper to observe that the " Eolations " of 
Coronado, Castaiieda, Jaramillo, and Alarcon, though somewhat vague in 
style, and therefore requiring a great deal of study to comprehend their 
meaning with certainty, are nevertheless written in a straight-forward, 
natural manner, and are manifestly entitled to credence whenever they 
describe what came under their observation. When, however, they 
describe the tales of others their narratives partake the character of 
the marvelous ; but, even then, if we carry along with us the idea that 
they do not mean to deceive, but only to give expression to what might 
possibly be true— but which they do not assert to be so — their narratives 
must be regarded not only as truthful, but as meritorious, and emi- 
nently deserving of careful study and reflection. 

* Castaueda's Relations, Ternaux Compaus, pp. 183, 184. 



THE SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION 



OF 



THE LOWEE RACES OF MAN, 



ADDRESS TO THE WORKINGMEN OF LIVERPOOL. 



By Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., F.R.S. 



Gentleimen: The subject on whicli I have been requested to address 
you this evening is one of much interest, but also of such vast extent, 
that I shall make no apology for entering- at once upon it, without any 
introductory remarks. I will only observe that I do not propose to de- 
scribe the arms or implements, houses or boats, food or dress of savages, 
all no doubt very interesting, but which time will not permit me to dis- 
cuss ; my object will rather be, if possible, to illustrate the mental con- 
dition and ideas of the lower races of men, a subject necessarily of great 
interest to the philosopher, but also of immense practical importance to 
an empire like ours, which extends to every quarter of the globe, and 
contains races of men in every stage of civilization. 

Even those who consider that man was civilized from the beginning, 
and look upon savages as the degenerate descendants of much superior 
parents, must still admit that our ancestors were once mere savages, 
and may find therefore much interest in this study ; but it no doubt ap- 
pears far more important to those who think, as I do, that the primitive 
condition of man was one of barbarism, and that the history of the human 
race has, on the whole, been one of progress. 

I do not of course suppose that every people must necessarily advance ; 
but those who do not, will assuredly be replaced, sooner or later, by 
more worthy races. Nor does progress take i)lace alike, or j»;aH passu, 
in all nations. The Greeks, though very advanced in arts, were extremely 
backward in other respects. Even the most civilized races show traces, 
and often more than traces, of their former barbarism. 

Nor do I mean that our modern savages in all respects reproduce the 
. condition of our ancestors in early times ; on the contrary, even the 
Australians have now codes of laws and rules which have grown up 
gradually, and cannot have existed originally. I feel satisfied, however, 
that from the study of modern savages we can gain a correct idea of 
man as he existed in ancient times, and of the stages through which our 
civilization has been evolved. 

As regards their habits indeed, and the material conditions of life, 
savages differ greatly. The Esquimaux, in the land of ice and seals, 
the hunters of the American forests and prairies, the beautiful island- 
ers of the still more beautiful islands in the Pacific, the Tartars of the 
Siberian steppes, the Negroes of tropical Africa, necessarily differ 
greatly in their diet, their clothes, their houses, &c. ; but, on the other 
hand, as regards ideas and customs, the case is different, and we find 



342 SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OP 

very remarkable similarities even in tlie most distinct races and the 
most distant regions of the globe. 

I propose, therefore, on the present occasion, more especially to call 
your attention to the social or family relations, and the religious ideas 
of the lower races. 

Our ideas of relationship, founded as they are on marriage, seem so 
natural and obvious, that we are at first inclined to regard them as 
having been original and common to them ; this, how^ever, as I shall 
attempt to show you, would be a mistake. ludeed, the i^osition ot 
woman is, among the lower savages, melancholy in the extreme, and 
precludes all those tender and sacred feelings to which so much of our 
best and i^urest hapi)iness is due. 

Again, the religion (if so it can be called) of savages differs greatly ; 
nay, in some respects, is the very opposite of ours. 

The whole mental condition of the savage, indeed, is so dissimilar 
from ours that it is often very difficult for us to follow what is passing 
in his mind, or to understand the motives by which he is actuated. 
Many things appear natural, and almost self-evident to him, which pro- 
duce a very different effect ui)on us. " What," said a Negro once to Bur- 
ton, '^ am I to starve while my sister has children whom she can sein" 
Thus, though savages always have a reason, such as it is, for what they 
do and what they think, these reasons often seem to lis irrelevant or 
absurd. Moreover, the difficulty of understanding what is passing in 
their minds is, of course, much enhanced by the differences of language. 

These have produced many laughable mistakes. Thus, when Labil- 
lardiere inquired of the Friendly Islanders (whose language we now 
perfectly understand) what was their word for 1,000,000, they seem to 
have thought the question absurd, and gave him a word which has no 
meaning; when he asked for 10,000,000, they said " /ooo/e," which I will 
leave imexplained ; for 100,000,000, '■'■ laounoua^^'' which means "non- 
sense 5" while, for still higher numbers, they gave him, in joke, certain 
coarse expressions, which he has gravely recorded in his table of nu- 
merals. 

A mistake made by Dampier led to more serious results. He had 
met some Australians, and apprehending an attack, he says, "I dis- 
charged my gun to save them, but avoided shooting any of them, till, 
finding that we were in great danger from them, and that though the 
gun a little frightened them at first, yet they had soon learned to despise 
it, tossing up their hands, and crying pooh, pooh, pooh ; and coming on 
afresh with a great noise, I thought it high time to charge again and 
shoot one of them, which I did." 

Thus, this wretched savage lost his life because Dampier did not 
remember that pooh, pooh, or puff, puff, is the name which savages, like 
children, apply to guns. 

Again, the modes of salutation among savages are sometimes very 
curious, and their modes of showing their feelings quite unlike ours. 

Kissing seems to us so natural an expression of affection, that we. 
should expect to find it all over the world. Yet it was unknown to the 
Australians, the New Zealanders, the Paponans, the West African 
Negroes, and the Esquimaux. 

The Polynesians and the Malays always sit down tvlien speaking to a 
superior. In some parts of Central Africa it is considered resj^ectful to 
turn the back to a superior. 

Captain Cook asserts that the inhabitants of Mallicolo, an island in 
the Pacific Ocean, show their admiration by hissing ; the Todas of the 
Neilgherry Hills, in India, are said to show respect by raising the open 



LOWER RACES OF MAN. 343 

right liand to the brow, resting the thumb on the nose ; it is asserted 
that among the Esquimaux it is customary to pull a person's nose as a 
compliment ; a Chinaman puts on his hat where he should take it off, 
and among the same curious people a coffin is regarded as a neat and 
appropriate present for an aged person, especially if in bad health. 

Under these circumstances we cannot wonder that we have very con- 
tradictory accounts of the character and mental condition of savages. 
Nevertheless, by comparing together the accounts of different travelers, 
we can, to a great extent, eliminate these sources of error, and we are 
much aided in this by the remarkable similarity between very different 
races. So striking, indeed, is this likeness, that different races, in sim- 
ilar stages of development, often present more features of resemblance 
to one another than the same race does to itself in different stages of its 
history. 

Some ideas, indeed, which seem to us at first inexplicable and fantas- 
tic, are yet very widely distributed. I will only allude to two. 

Probably every Englishman who had not studied other races, would 
be astonished to meet with a nation in which, on the birth of a baby, 
the father and not the mother Avas put to bed and nursed. 

Yet, though this custom seems so ludicrous to use, it prevails very 
widely. 

Father Dobritzhoffer tells us that among the Abigrones of South 
America, " no sooner do you hear that a woman has borne a child, than 
you see the husband lying in bed, huddled up with mats and skins, lest 
some ruder breath of air should touch him, and for a number of days 
abstaining religiously from certain viands; you would swear it was he 
who had had the child. * * * I had read about this in old times, 
and laughed at it, never thinking I could believe such madness ; and I 
used to suspect that this barbarous custom was related more in joke than 
in earnest, but at last I saw it with my own eyes among the Abigrones." 

Other travelers mention the existence of a similar custom in Green- 
land, in Kamtchatka, in parts of China, in Borneo, in the north of Spain, 
in Corsica, and in the south of France, where it was called "/aire la 
convadey 

It is of course evident that a custom so ancient and so widely distri- 
buted must have its origin in some idea which satisfies the savage 
mind. 

Several explanations have been suggested. Professor Max Miiller 
says, "It is clear that the poor husband was at first tyrannized over by 
his female relations, and afterward frightened into superstition. He 
then began to make a martyr of himself, till he made himself really ill, 
or took to his bed in self-defense." 

Lafitau, to whom we are indebted for an excellent work on the manners 
of the American Indians, regards it as arising from a dim recollection of 
original sin, rejecting the explanation given by some of the savages 
themselves, and which I have little doubt is the correct one, that they 
do it because they believe that if the father is engaged in any rough 
work, or was careless in his diet, the infant would suffer. 

This idea, namely, that a person imbibes the characteristics of an ani- 
mal which he eats, is very widely distributed. The Malays at Singapore 
used to give a large price for the flesh of the tiger, not because they 
liked it, but because they believed that the man who eats tiger will be- 
come as wise and powerful as that animal. The Dyaks of Borneo have 
a prejudice against the flesh of the deer, which the men may not eat, 
though it is allowed to the women and children. The reason given is that 
if the men were to eat venison, they would become as timid as deer. 



344 SOCIAL AND KELIGIOUS CONDITION OP 

The Caribs will not eat the flesh of pigs or of tortoises lest they should 
get small eyes. The Dacotahs of North America eat the liver of the clog, 
that they may become as wise and brave as that animal. 

The i^ew Zealanders, after baptizing an infant, nsed to make it swal- 
low pebbles, so that its heart might be hard and incapable of pity. So 
also after a battle, they used to cook and eat the bravest and wisest of 
their fallen enemies, expecting thus to secure a share of their wisdom 
and courage. 

Another curious idea very prevalent among savages is their dread of 
having their portraits taken. The better the likeness the worse they 
t'.vink for the sitter; so muclijife could not be put into the copy except 
at the expense of the original. 

Once, when a good deal annoyed by some North American Indians, 
Kane got rid of them instantly by threatening to draw them if they 
remained. 

Catlin tells an amusing but melancholy anecdote in illustration of this 
feeling among the same people. On one occasion he was making a like- 
ness of a chief named Mahtocheega, in profile. This, when observed, 
excited much commotion among the iDdians. "Why was half his face 
left out?" they asked, "Mahtocheega w^as never afraid to look a white 
man in the face." Mahtocheega himself does not seem to have taken 
any olfense, but Shonka, a hostile chief, took occasion to taunt him. 
"The Englishman," he said, "knows that you are but half a man; he 
has painted but one-half of your face, and knows that the rest is good 
for nothing." This taunt led to a fight, in which poor Mahtocheega was 
killed, and the whole affair was very unfortunate for Mr. Catlin, who 
had nuich difficulty in making his escape, and lived some time in fear of 
his life. 

"We cannot wonder that writing should appear to the savage even 
more mysterious and uncanny than drawing. 

Carver allowed the Canadian Indians to open a book wherever they 
pleased, and then told them the number of leaves on each side. The 
only way they could account for this, he says, "was by concluding that 
the book was a spirit and told me whatever I asked." 

Further south the Minuatarrees, seeing Catlin intent over a copy of 
the New YorJc Commercial Advertiser, were much puzzled, but at length 
concluded that it was a cloth for sore eyes. One of them eventually 
bought it at a high price. 

This belief in the mysterious character of writing has led to its being 
used in many parts of the world as. a medicine. 

The Central Africans are a religious people accordiug to their lights, 
and have great faith in the eiScacy of prayers. When any one is ill, 
they write a text out of the Koran on a board, wash it olf, and make 
the patieut drink it. The French traveller, Caillie, met with a man 
who had a great reputation for sanctity, and who made his living by 
writing prayers on a board, washing them off, and then selling the 
water, which was sprinkled over various objects, and supposed to 
improve and protect them. It was soon observed that the charms were 
no protection from fire-arms ; but that did not the least weaken the faith 
in them, because they said, as guns were not invented in Mohammed's 
time, he naturally provided no specific against them. 

ORNAjMENTS. 

Savages are passionately fond of ornaments. If in the very low races 
the women are often wholly undecorated, this is only because the men 
keep all the ornaments to themselves. 



THE LOWER EACES OF MAN. 345 

As a general rule, we may say that races inhabiting hot climates 
ornament themselves ; those of colder countries, their clothes. In fact, 
all savage races who have much of their skin uncovered, delight in 
painting themselves in the most brilliant colors. 

Although perfectly naked, the Australians of Botany Bay were,, as 
Captain Cook quaintly puts it, " very ambitious to be fine." Through 
the nose they wore a bone, as thick as a man's finger, and five or six 
inches long. This was of course very awkward, as it prevented them 
from breathing through the nose ; but they submitted clieerfully to the 
inconvenience for the sake of the appearance. 

They had also necklaces made of shells neatly cut and strung together, 
ea.rrliigs, bracelets of small cord, and strings of phiited human hair, 
which they wound round their waists. Some also had gorgets of large 
shells hung round their neck ; and on all these ornaments they placed 
a high vakie. 

They also painted themselves, red and white being the principal colors. 
The red was laid on in broad patches ; the white generally in stripes, 
or on the face in spots, ofteu with a circle round each eye. 

Spix and Martins thus describe the ornaments of a Coroado woman, 
whom they saw in Brazil : " On the cheek she had a circle, and over 
that two strokes ; nnder the nose several marks resembling an m ; from 
the corners of the mouth to the middle of the cheek were two parallel 
lines, and below them on both sides many straight stripes ; below and 
between her breasts there were some segments of circles, and down her 
arms the figure of a snake was depicted." She also wore a necklace of 
monkey's teeth. 

Indeed, savages wear necklaces and rings, bracelets, and anklets, 
armlets and leglets; even, if I may say so, bodylets. Eound their 
bodies, round their necks, round their arms and legs, their fingers, and 
even their toes, they wear ornaments of all kinds. Lichtenstein saw 
the wife of a Beetuan chief, in South Africa, wearing no less than 
seventy-two brass rings. 

Nor are they particular as to the material — copper, brass or iron, 
leather or ivory, stones, shells, glass, bits of wood, seeds or teeth — 
nothing comes amiss. In the Louisiade Archipelago, McGillivray saw 
several bracelets made, each of a human lower jaw, crossed by a collar 
bone; and other travelers have seen brass curtain rings, brass keyhole 
plates, lids of sardine cases, and other such incongruous objects, worn 
with much gravity and pride. 

Many races are very careful about their hair. The Feejee Islanders 
train it into elaborate wigs, v;hich take some j^ears to arrive at perfec- 
tion, so that they cannot sleep as we do, but are comi^elled to use neck- 
rests. The islanders north of Australia, though among the lowest of 
savages, are in the habit of dyeing their hair red. 

Not content with hanging things on their bodies wherever nature has 
enabled them to do so, savages often cut holes in themselves for the 
purpose. 

The Esquimaux, from Mackenzie Eiver westward, make two openings 
in their cheeks, one on each side, in which they wear stone ornaments 
shaped like a large shirt- stud, and which may be called cheek-studs. 

Throughout a great portion of Western America, and in parts of 
Africa, it is the custom to wear a large piece of wood in the lower 
lip. A small hole is made in the lip during infancy, and it is then 
enlarged by degrees, the size of the lower lip being the principal criterion 
of beauty. 

Other races, in the same manner, enlarge the lobe of the ear, until it 



346 SOCIAL AND KELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

sometimes reaches the shoulder. Others file the teeth iu various man- 
ners. Dr. Barnard Davis has a Dyack skull from Borneo, iu which the 
six front teeth are each ornamented by having a small brass pin driven 
into them. 

Ornamentation of the skin, again, is almost universal among the 
lower races of men. In some cases every individual follows his own 
fancy; in others, each class has its own pattern. 

Thus, the Bormouese of Central Africa have twenty cuts or lines on 
each side of the face, one in the center of the forehead, six on each 
arm, six on each leg, four on each side of tho chest, and nine on each 
side just above the hips. This makes ninety-one large cuts, and the 
process is said to be extremely painful, especially on account of the heat 
and flies. 

The most familiar example, however, of this mode of ornamentation 
is the tattooing of the New Zealanders, which also causes much inflam- 
mation of the skin and great suflering. 

Many other cases might be given in which savages ornament them- 
selves, as they suppose, iu a manner which must be very i)aiuful. 

Even the shape is forcibly altered by some races of men. Thus the 
Chinese cripple their ladies by preventing the growth of the feet; and 
some of the American races even entirely alter the shape of the head, 
by tight bandages applied to the newly-born infant, a process which one 
would have expected to affect the intellect, though, as far as the existing 
evidence goes, it does not appear to do so. 

LAWS. 

Those who have not devoted much attention to the subject have 
generally regarded the savage as having, at least, one advantage 
over civilized man, that, namely, of enjoying an amount of personal ' 
freedom greater than that of individuals belonging to more civilized 
communities. 

There cannot be a greater mistake. The savage is nowhere free. All 
over the world his life is regulated by a complicated set of rules and 
customs as forcible as laws, of quaint prohibitions, and unjust j)rivileges — 
the iDrohibitions generally applying to the women, and the privileges to 
the men. 

The Australians, says Mr. Laing, "instead of enjoying perfect per- 
sonal freedom, as it would at first appear, are governed by a code 
of rules and a set of customs which form one of the most cruel tyrannies 
that has ever perhaps existed on the face of the earth, subjecting not 
only the will, but the property and life of the weak to the dominion 
of the strong. The whole tendency of the system is to give everything 
to the strong and old, to the prejudice of the weak and young, and more 
particularly to the detriment of the women. They have rules by which 
the best food, the best pieces, the best animals, &c., are prohibited to 
the women and young men, and reserved for the old. The women are 
generally appropriated to the old and powerful, some of whom possess 
from four to six wives ; while wives are altogether denied to young men, 
unless they have sisters to give in exchange, and are strong and 
courageous enough to prevent their sisters from being taken without 
exchange." 

In Tahiti "the men were allowed to eat the flesh of the pig and of 
fowls, and a variety of fish, cocoa-nuts, and plantains, and whatever was 
presented as an offering to the gods, which the females on pain of death 
were forbidden to touch, as it was supposed they would po flute them. 



THE LOWER RACES OF MAN. 347 

The fire on which the men's food was cooked was also sacred, and was 
forbidden to be nsed by the females. The baskets in which their pro- 
vision was kept, and the honse in which the men ate, were also sacred, 
and prohibited to the females under the same cruel penalty." 

''To believe," says Sir George Grey, "that man in a savage state is 
endowed with freedom, either of thought or action, is in the highest 
degree erroneous." 

Moreover, if savages pass unnoticed many actions which we deem 
highly criminal, on the other hand they strictly forbid others which we 
regard as altogether immaterial. Thus the Mongols of Siberia think it 
wrong to touch fire with a knife, to use one for takiug meat out of a 
pot, to cut up wood near a hearth, to lean on a whip, to pour liquor on 
the ground, to strike a horse with the bridle, or break one bone against 
another. 

Even in the choice of their wives, savages in many cases have rules 
which greatly restrict their power of selection. 

In Australia (where, by the way, the same family names are common 
over almost the whole continent) no man may marry a woman of the 
same name as his own, even though she may be no relation Ayhatever. 

In Eastern Africa, Burton says that "some clans of Somal Arabs wiU 
not marry oue of the same family." 

Throughout India we find that the hill tribes are divided into septs 
or clans, and that a man may not marry a woman belonging to his own 
clan. 

The Kalmucks of Tartary are divided into hordes, and a man may not 
marry a girl of his own horde. " The bride," says Bergman, "is always 
chosen from another stock; among the Derbets, for instance, from the 
Torgot stock, and among the Torgots from the Derbet stock." 

The same custom prevails among the Ckcassiaus and the Samoyeds 
of Siberia. The Ostyaks and Yakuts also regard it as a crime to marry 
a woman of the same family, or even of the same name. 

Among the North American Indians every tribe is divided into clans, 
generally from three to eight clans in each tribe, and no man is allowed 
to marry a woman of his own clan. 

Again, far from being informal or extemporary, the salutations, cere- 
monies, treaties, and contracts of savages are characterized by the very 
opposite qualities. 

Eyre mentions that, in their intercourse with one another, natives 
of different Australian tribes are exceedingly punctilious. Mariner 
gives a long account of the elaborate ceremonies practiced by the Ton- 
gans, and of their almost superstitious regard for rank. Thus, the king 
was by no means the man of highest rank. The Tooitonga, Veachi, and 
several others preceded him. Indeed the name Tooitonga means liter- 
ally " Sovereign of Tonga;" the ofQce, however, was wholly of a religious 
character, the Tooitonga being regarded as descended from the gods, 
if not as a deity himself. 

The Egbas, a Negro race of West Africa, are described by Burton as 
extremely ceremonious, and have a great %'ariety of salutations, appli- 
cable to every possible occasion. If an inferior meets a superior, there 
are several modes of showing respect. Captain Burton calculates that 
every one spends at least one hour a day in these troublesome ceremonies. 

In the religious ceremonies of Tahiti, Williams mentions that "how- 
ever large or costly the sacrifice that had been offered, and however 
near its close the most protracted ceremony might be, if the priest omitted 
or misplaced any word in the jjrayers with which it was accompanied, 
or if his attention was diverted by any means, so that the prayer was 



348 SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

Miai' or brolien, the wliole was rendered unavailable; he must prepare 
other victims, and repeat his prayers over from the commencement." 

Again, in Feejee, which is inhabited by a totally different race, we 
are told that i)nblic business was conducted with tedious formality. 
Old forms are strictly observed and innovations opposed. An abun- 
dance of measured clappini? of hands, and subdued exclamations, charac- 
terize these occasions. Whales' teeth and other property are never 
exchani^ed or i)resented without a tedious ceremonial. 

But little consideration is required to show that this is quite natural. 
In the absence of writing, evidence of contracts must depend on the tes- 
timony of witnesses; and it is necessary, therefore, to avoid all haste 
which might lead to forgetfulness, and to imprint the ceremony as much 
as possible on the minds of those present. 

Among the lower races of men the chiefs scarcely take any cognizance 
of crime. As regards i)rivate injuries, every one protects or revenges 
himself. Thus, among the North American Indians, even in cases of 
murder, the family of the deceased only punish the aggressor if they 
can. The chiefs and rulers do not feel called on to interfere. Indeed, 
it would seem that the object of legal regulations was at first not so 
much to punish the offender as to restrain and mitigate the vengeance 
of the aggrieved party. 

The amount of legal revenge, if I may so call it, is often strictly regu- 
lated, even where we should least expect to find such limitations. Thus, 
in Australia* " crimes may be compounded for by the criminal appear- 
ing and submitting himself to the ordeal of having spears thrown at him 
by all such persons as conceive themselves to have been aggrieved, or 
by permitting spears to be thrust through certain parts of his body," 
such as through the thigh, or the calf of the leg, or under the arm. The 
part which is to be jiierced by a spear is fixed for all common crimes, 
and a native who has incurred this penalty sometimes quietly holds out 
his leg for the injured party to thrust his spear through." So strictly 
is the amount of punishment limited, that if, in inflicting such spear 
wounds, a man, either through carelessness, or from any other cause, 
exceeded the recognized limits, if, for instance, he wounded the femoral 
artery, he would in his turn become liable to punishment. 

Such cases as these seem to throw great light on the origin of the idea 
of property. As soon as any rules were laid downi regulating the nature 
or amount of revenge for disturbance in possession, or when the chief 
thought it worth while himself to settle disputes so arising, and thus, 
while increasing his own dignity and influence, to check quarrels which 
might otherwise prove injurious to the tribe, the natural effect would be 
to develop the idea of mere possession into that of proi)erty. 

Since, then, crimes were at first regarded as mere personal matters, 
in which the aggressor and his victim alone were interested, every 
crime, even murder, might be atoned for by the payment of a sum of 
money. 

Among the Anglo-Saxons every part of the body had a recognized 
value. Thus, the loss of a front tooth was valued at six shillings; that 
of a beard was reckoned at tw^enty shillings; while the breaking of a 
thigh was only i)ut at twelve, and of a rib at three; facts which show 
both the high value of money, and also the importance attached by our 
ancestors to their personal appearance. JMoreover, these payments had 
reference to the injury done, and had no relation to the crime as a crime. 

This is, no doubt, the origin of the great difference in the penalties 

* Sir G. Grey's Australia, s. 2, p. 243. 



THE LOWER RACES OF MAN. 64zd 

inflicted by ancient laws on manifest and non-manifest thieves, that is, 
on offenders caught in the act, and those only detected after delay. 
Thus, in the old Eoman law the manifest thief, who was caught in the 
act, or with the goods still upon him, became the slave of the person 
robbed; while the non-manifest thief was only compelled to pay twice 
the value of what he had stolen. 

The same principle occurs in the German and in the IN'orth American 
Indian laws, thus following the rule of private vengeance, and the pro- 
portion of revenge likely to be taken by an aggrieved person under such 
circumstances. 

The severity of early codes, and the uniformity of punishment which 
characterizes them, is probably due to the same cause. An individual 
who felt himself aggrieved would not weigh very closely the amount of 
vengeance he was entitled to inflict ; and as it would be the object of 
early lawgivers to encourage resort to the public tribunals, and to dis- 
courage private vengeance, they would naturally feel it undesirable that 
the penalty imposed by law should at first be much less than that which 
custom allowed the party aggrieved to take for himself. 

MARRIAGE AND RELATIONSHIPS. 

Another subject on which savages entertain notions very different from 
ours is that of relationships. All our ideas of relationship are founded 
on marriage and on the family. We regard a child as related equally 
to its father and its mother ; we make no difference between a father's 
brother and a mother's brother on the one hand, a father's sister and a 
mother's sister on the other. They are respectively uncles and aunts. 
But among savages it is not so. The relationship to the clan almost 
supersedes that to the family. The position of the women is very unfor- 
tunate. They are treated like slaves, or almost like domestic animals. 
Thus, in Australia, little real affection exists between husband and wife, 
and young men value a wife principally for her services as a slave ; in 
fact, when asked why they are anxious to obtain wives, their usual reply 
is, that they may get wood, water, and food for them, and carry what- 
ever property they possess. 

The position of women in that country seems, indeed, to be wretched 
in the extreme. 

"Few women," says Eyre, ''will be found upon examination to be free 
from frightful scars upon the head, or the marks of spear wounds about 
the body. I have seen a young woman who, from the number of these 
marks, appeared to have been almost riddled with spear wounds." And 
it seems that, if they are at all good-looking, their i)osition is, if possible, 
even worse than otherwise. 

Even in marriage, there is, among the lowest races of men, little 
feeling of love ; manj^ of the lower languages are sadly deficient in terms 
of affection. Pure love-songs are almost unknown, or very rare, among 
the lowest races of men. From the nature of their dwellings, there is 
much less i:>rivacy than among ourselves ; the clan feeling is strong, 
and the tribe generally has an interest in the produce of the chase or 
fishery of each. These and other circumstances strengthen the feeling 
for the tribe as against that for the family. 

Many instances, indeed, are recorded among the lower races of men 
where marriage may be said to be unknown, and where children must, 
therefore, be regarded as related by tribal rather than family connections. 
Traces of this state of things exist in some cases long after the actual 
condition has ceased to exist. 

Thus, even in o«r own language, words which now indicate relation- 



350 SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

ship had, originally, no such signification : the word daughter, for in- 
stance, meaning literally "milkmaid," and thus dating back to a time 
when our ancestors did not recognize the "liimily" as it now exists 
among us. Mr. Morgan has pointed out a very interesting illustration 
of the same fact in the language of the Sandwich Islands. The word 
^^waheena^^ stands equally for wife, wife's sister, brother's wife, and 
wife's brother's wife. So again, " IcaiJcee,^^ child, also signifies brother's 
wife's child and wife's brother's wife's child. The same ideas of relation- 
ship are indicated by the application of the word " /;«««," i. e. husband. 

That this does not arise from mere poverty of language is evident, 
because the same system discriminates between other relationships we 
do not distinguish from one another. 

Perhaps the contrast is most clearly shown in the words for brother- 
in-law and sister-in-law. Thus, if a woman is speaking, the word for 
sister-in-law=husband's brother's wife, is^Mwafea, and for sister-in-law= 
husband's sister, JcaiJcoaka; but brother-iu-law, whether sister's husband 
or husband's brother, is /*;«»« =husband. On the contrary, when a man 
is speaking, the word for sister-in-la,w=wife's sister or brother's wife, is 
tvaheena=vfife ; but brother-in-law = wife's brother, is Milcoala, and for 
wife's sister's husband, punahia. Thus, a woman has husbands and 
sisters-in-law, but no brothers-in-law, while a man has wives and brothers- 
in-law, but no sisters-in-law. The same idea runs through all other 
relationship, cousins being regarded as brothers and sisters. So again, 
while the Eomans distinguished between father's brother =patmas, and 
mother's hr other = avunculus ; and again, father's sister = am ita, and 
mother's sister =mat€rter a; the two first in Ha\vaian are malma Icana. 

Thus, the idea of marriage does not in fact exist in the Sandwich 
Island system of relationship. Uncleships, auntships, cousinships, are 
ignored, and we have only grandparents, parents, brothers and sisters, 
children, and grandchildren. 

Here it is clear that the child is related to the group. It is not 
specially related either to its father or its mother, who stand in the same 
relation as mere uncles and aunts, so that every child has several fathers 
and several mothers. 

To our English ideas, the question of the origin of marriage seems 
devoid of difficulty, nay, even of significance. The married state is one 
with which we are so familiar, it is so interwoven with all our family life, 
all our sense of social duty, that we are apt to regard it as universal and 
aboriginal. This, however, is not the case. Facts like those just refer- 
red to — and, if time permitted, many others might be given — show that 
the condition of the lowest races of men is that not of individual marriage 
as it exists among us, but of communal marriage, if I may call it so. 
Even, however, under the system of communal marriage, a man who had 
captured a beautiful girl in some marauding expedition would wish to 
keep her to himself. She did not belong to the tribe; they had no right 
to her; he might have killed her if he had chosen; and if he preferred 
to keep her alive, it was no affair of theirs ; she was as much his indi- 
vidual property as his spear or his bow. Hence a form of individual 
marriage would rise uj) by the side of the communal marriage. This 
theory explains the extraordinary subjection of the woman in marriage; 
it explains the very widely distributed custom of " exogamy," or that 
custom which forbids marriage within the tribe; the necessity of expia- 
tion for marriage, as an infringement of tribal rights, since, according 
to old ideas, a man had no right to appropriate to himself that which 
belonged to the whole tribe ; and, lastly, the remarkable prevalence of 
the form of capture in marriage. 



THE LOWER RACES OF MAN. 351 

Among tlie rudest races capture is far more than a form, and it is 
customary for men to steal women by force from other tribes. 

Hearne, wbo knew the North American Indians thoroughly well, and 
•whose statements have been confirmed by subsequent travelers, as for 
instance by Franklin and Eichardson, assures us that among the North- 
ern tribes, it has ever been the custom for the men to wrestle for any 
woman to whom they are attached •, and of course the strongest always 
carries off the prize. "A weak man," he adds, "is seldom permitted to 
keep a wife, that a stronger man thinks worth his notice," which, he says, 
"keeps up a great spirit of emulation among the young men." It must 
be observed that this is not regarded as any arbitrary exercise of power, 
but it is a recognized right that a strong man may carry off the wife of 
a weaker one if he can ; and it would appear that even the women acqui- 
esce in this custom without a murmur. 

I will now give a few instances, in order to show how widely this 
custom of marriage by capture prevaDs among the lower races of men, 
and that traces of it linger even among those higher in the scale of civ- 
ilization. 

In Australia, the ardent lover steals on the dark object of his affections, 
knocks her down with his club, and drags her off in triumph. This 
violent affection is not resented by the relations of the woman, if they 
are not able to rescue her at the moment. On the contrary, she is recog- 
nized as the legal wife of her captor. 

In Bali, one of the islands between Java and New Guinea, it is stated 
to be the practice that girls are stolen away by their lovers, who carry 
them off" by force to the woods ; when brought back from thence the 
poor female becomes the slave of her rough lover, by a certain compen- 
sation being paid to her relatives. 

Speaking of the Khonds, a tribe in India, Major General Campbell 
mentions that, on one occasion, hearing loud cries, he went to see what 
was the matter, and found a man carrying off a gitl, while twenty or 
thirty friends protected him from the attacks of a number of women, who 
were attempting to rescue the bride. The struggle continued until the 
bridegroom reached his own house, and General Campbell was assured 
that, among the Khonds, marriages were always solemnized in this 
manner. 

Among the Kalmucks of Central Asia the marriage ceremony is even 
more romantic. The girl is put on a horse and rides off at full speed. 
When she has got enough start the lover starts in pursuit ; if he catches 
her, she becomes his wife ; but if he cannot overtake her, the match is 
broken oft"; and we are assured, which I can well believe, that no Kal- 
muck girl was ever caught against her will. 

Again, among the Ahitas of the Philippine Islands, when a man 
wishes to marry a girl, her i)arents send her before sunrise into the 
woods. She has an hour's start, after which the lover goes to seek her. 
If he finds her and brings her back before sunset, the marriage is ac- 
knowledged ; if not, he must abandon all claim to her. 

" The aborigines of the Amazon Valley," says Wallace, "have no par- 
ticular ceremony at their marriages, except that of always carrying 
away the girl by force, or making a show of doing so, even when she 
and her parents are quite willing." 

M. Bardel mentions that among the Indians round Conception, in 
Chili, on the other side of the Andes, after a man has agreed on the 
price of a girl with her parents, the recognised mode of proceeding is 
that he surprises her, or is supposed to do so, and carries her off to the 
woods for a few days, after which the happy couple return home. 



352 SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

As regards Europe, we find just the same thing; the Eomans had a 
similar custom, and traces of it occur in Greek history. 

So deeply rooted is the feeling of a connection between force and 
marriage, that we find the former used as a form long after all necessity 
for it as a reality had ceased to exist ; and it is very interesting to trace, 
as Mr. McLennan has done, the gradual stages through which a stern 
reality softens down into a mere symbol. 

For, as communities became larger and more civilized, the actual cap- 
turc became inconvenient, and, indeed, impossible. Gradually, therefore, 
it sunk more and more into a mere form. 

In North Friesland the bride makes a show of resistance, and is lifted 
by mock force into the wagon which is to take her home. 

Hence, no doubt, the custom of lifting the bride over the doorstep, 
which occurs or did occur among the Romans, the redskins of Canada, 
the Chinese, and the natives of Abyssinia. Hence, also, perhaps our 
custom of the honeymoon ; and hence, also, may be, as Mr. McLennan 
has suggested, the slipper is thrown in mock anger after the departing 
bride and, bridegroom. The latter suggestion is indeed very doubtful; 
still it is remarkable how persistent are all customs and ceremonies con- 
nected with marriage. Thus our "bridecake," which so invariably 
accompanies a wedding, and which must always be cut by the bride, 
may be traeed back to the old Eoman form of marriage by '■'• confarreatio,^'' 
or eating together. So also imong the Iroquois, the bride and bride- 
groom used to partake together of a cake of sagamite, which the bride 
always offered to her husband. Again, among several of the Indian Hill 
tribes, the bride prepares some drink, sits on her lover's knee, drinks 
half herself, and gives him the rest. 

It requires strong evidence, which, however, exists in abundance, to 
satisfy us that marriage was, in its origin, independent of all sacred and 
social considerations ; that it had nothing to do with mutual affection 
or consent; indeed,* that all appearance of consent was forbidden; so 
that it was symbolised not by any demonstration of warm affection on 
the one side, and tender devotion on the other, but by brutal violence 
and unwilling submission. 

Yet, as already mentioned, the evidence is overwhelming. Marriage 
by ca])ture, either as a reality or as a form, has been shown to exist in 
Australia, and among the Malays, in Hiudostan, Central Asia, Siberia, 
and Kamtchatka, among the Esquimaux, the northern redskins of 
America, the aborigines of the Amazon Valley, in Chili and in Tierra 
del Fuego, in the Pacific Islands, in the Philippines ; among the Arabs, 
Negroes, and Circassians ; and, until lately, in various parts of ISTorthern 
Europe. 

I will now proceed to the consideration of the statement that the 
second stage in the development of the idea of family consists in the 
recognition of relationship to the mother, that to the father being still 
overlooked. 

In almost all tropical countries polygamy is very frequent; the chiefs 
especially take to themselves a large number of wives. In Western 
Africa, for instance, the king of Ashantee made it a point of honor to 
have always 3,333 wives. Among hunting races, though polygamy is 
less prevalent, men who are powerful, either physically or socially, fre- 
quently appropriate to themselves the wives of those who are weaker. 
Either of these conditions — either the multiplicity of wives, or frequent 
changes, would weaken very much the tie between father and child. 
Hence, probably, the curious fact, that in many parts of the world a 
man's property does not descend to his own children, but to those of his 



THE LOWER RACES OF MAN. 353 

sister: relationsliip, and, consequently, iulieritance, being held to descend 
iu the female line, and not in the male, as among ourselves. 

This is the case among- the jSTegroes of Guinea, among- the Berbers iu 
Xorth Africa, and the Arabs in the East. It occurs among- several of 
the Hindostan tribes, among the Battas of Sumatra, the red Indians of 
JSTorth America, the black islanders of the Pacific, and elsewhere. 

Obviously, however, as civilization progressed, and the moral feelings 
became stronger, a feeling of opposition to these arrangements would 
arise. As family life became more develo])ed, the affection between 
father and child would become stronger; and as property became more 
important, men would wish their goods to descend to their own children, 
who would themselves obviously desire to inherit their father's property. 

And as man, like a pendulum, always passes from one extreme to 
another, so, having long considered that children were related to their 
mother, but not to their father, when they recognized the relation on 
the paternal side, they went into the other extreme, and neglected that 
to the mother. 

How completely the idea of relationship through the father, when 
once recognized, superseded that through the mother, we may see in the 
very curious trial of Orestes — the son of Agamemnon and Clytem- 
nestra — as recorded by an ancient Greek poet. 

Clytemuestra murdered Agamemnon, whose death was avenged by 
Orestes. For this act he was fabled to have been i^rosecuted before 
the Greek gods by the Furies, vrhose duty it was to punish those, and 
those only, who had slain their relatives. 

In his defense Orestes asked them, why they did not punish his 
mother, Clytemnestra, for the murder of her husband, Agamemnon, 
and when they answer that marriage does not constitute blood-relation- 
ship, he i^leads that, by the same rule, they cannot touch him, because, 
he says, a child is a relation to his father, but not to its mother. 

This view, which seems to us so unnatural, was nevertheless supported 
by Apollo and Minerva, and being ado^rted by a majority of the judges, 
led to the acquittal of Orestes. 

Hence we see that at first the feeling of clanship prevailed rather 
than that of family, and that children were regarded as related to the 
tribe rather than to their parents; that, secondh', they were considered 
to be related to the mother, but not to the father; thirdly, to the father, 
but not to the mother; lastly, and lastly only, as among ourselves, to 
both father and mother. 

• We see, therefore, that the lowest savages are entirely deficient in the 
idea of marriage and of famil}^, and that the position of women is 
wretched in the extreme. The ideas of relationship, founded on mar- 
riage, have only gradually been acquired, and thus civilization has 
raised the position of woman, and making her a helpmeet instead of a 
slave, has purified and softened all the conditions of social life. The 
higher i)osition of woman is one of the points in which we see most 
clearly the enormous advantage of civilization over barbarism. 

RELiaiON. 

The religious condition of the lower races of mankind is one of the 
most difficult, although, at the same time, most interesting i^ortious of 
my subject. 

It is most difficult, partly because it is far from easy to communicate 

with men of a different race on such an abstruse subject; partly because 

many are reluctant to discuss it; but mainly because, even among those 

nominally professing the same religion, there are always in reality great 

1'3 s 



354 SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

differences; individuals — as I sliall endeavor to show you is also the 
case with nations — acquiring continually grander, and therefore more 
con-ect ideas, as they rise in the scale of civilization. 

Still, as new religious ideas arise, they do not destroy, but are only 
superinduced upon the old ones ; thus the religion of the ancestors be- 
(M)ine the nursery tales of their descendants, and the old Teutonic deities 
of our tbrefathers are the giants and demons of our children. 

It has hitherto been usual to classify religions either according to 
the name of the founder or the objects worshipped. Thus one division 
of the lower religions has been into Fetichism, defined as the worship of 
material substances; Sabajism, that of the heavenly bodies, the sun, 
moon, and stars ; and Heroism, or the deiiication of men after death. 
This and other similar systems are simple, and have certainly some ad- 
vantages, especially as regards the lower races of men and the lower 
forms of religion. They are not, howe^'er, really natural systems; there 
is no real difference between the worship of the sun and that of a rock 
or lake. No doubt to us the sun seems a grander deity, but of the main 
facts on which that opinion rests the savage is eutirely ignorant. 

Moreover, Heroism is fouiul among races as low in the scale of civili- 
zation as either Fetichism (in the above definition, which, however, I do 
not adopt) or Sabansm, and indeed the three forms of religion indicated 
above may coexist in one jieople, and even in the same individual. The 
true classification of religions should, as it seems to me, rest, not on the 
mere object worshipped, but on the nature and character ascribed to 
the deity. 

It is a nuich disputed questiou, into which I will not now enter, 
whether the lowest races have any religion or not. 

However this nmy be, it is at least clear that the religion of the lower 
savages is very unlike that of most advanced races. Indeed, in nmny 
respects it is the very opposite. Their deities are evil, not good; they 
may be forced into "compliance with the wishes of man ; they require 
bloody, and rejoice even in human, sacrifices; they are mortal, not im- 
mortal; part of nature, not the creators of the world; they are to be 
approached by dances rather than by prayers; and often approve of 
vice rather than of what Ave esteem as virtue. 

The ideas of religion among the lower races of man are intimately 
associated with, if indeed they have not originated from, the condition 
of man during sleep, and especially from dreams. 

Sleep and death liave always been regarded as nearly related to one 
another. Thus, in classical mythology, Somnus, the god of sleep, and 
Mors, the god of death, were both fabled to have been the children of 
Nox, the goddess of night. 

So, also, the savage would naturally look on death as a kind of sleep, 
and would expect and hope — hoping on even against hope — to see his 
friend awake from the one as he had often done from the other. 

Hence, probably, one reason for the great importance ascribed to tlie 
treatment of the body after death. 

But what happens to the spirit during sleep? The body lies lifeless, 
and the savage not unnaturally concludes that the spirit has left it. In 
this he is confirmed by the phenomena of dreams, which consequently 
to the savage have a reality and an importance which we can scarcely 
appreciate. During sleep the spirit appears to desert the body, and, 
as in our dreams, we seem to visit other countries and distant regions, 
while the body remains as it were lifeless; the two phenomena were 
naturally placed side by side, and regarded as the complements one of 
the other. 



THE LOWER RACES OF MAN. 355 

Hence, the savage considers the events in liis dreams as real as those 
which happen when he is awake, and hence he naturally feels that he 
has a S])irit which can quit the body — if not when it likes, at least under 
certai n circumstances. 

Thus, Burton states, that, according to the Jorubans, a Western Afri- 
can tribe, ''dreams are not an irregular action and partial activity of 
the brain^ but so many revelations from the spirits of the departed." 

So strong, again, was the Xorth American faith in dreams, that on 
one occasion, when an Indian had dreamed that he was taken captive 
and tortured, he induced his friends to make a mock attack upon him, 
and actually submitted to very considerable suifering, in the hope that 
he would thus fulfill his dream. 

The Greenlanders also believe in the reality of dreams, and thiidc that 
at night their spirit actually goes hunting, visiting, courting, and so on. 
It is of course obvious that the body takes no part in these nocturnal 
adventures, and hence it is natural to conclude that they have a spirit 
which can quit the bod^'. 

Lastly, when thej' dream of their departed friends or relatives, savages 
firmly believe that they are visited by the spirits of the dead, and hence 
believe, not indeed in the immortality of the soul, but in the existence 
of a sjurit which survives, or may survive, the body. 

Again, savages are seldom ill; their sufferings generally arise from 
. Avounds; their deaths are generally violent. As an external injury 
received, say, in war, causes pain, so when they suffer internally, they 
attribute it to some enemy within them. Hence, when an Australian, 
perhaps after too heavy a meal, has his slumbers disturbed, he is at no 
loss for an explanation, and supposes that he has been attacked by some 
being whom his companions could not see. 

This is well illustrated in the following passage from Captain Wilkes's 
voyage: " Sometimes," he says, " when the Australian is asleep, Koin, 
as they call this spirit, seizes upon one of them and carries Lim off. 
The person seized endeavors in vain to cry out, being almost strangled. 
At daylight, however, Koin departs, and the man tinds himself again 
safe by his own fireside." Here it is evident that Koin is a personifica- 
tion of the nightmare. 

In other cases the belief that man possesses a spirit seems to have been 
suggested by the shadow. Thus, among the Feejeeans : " Some," says 
Mr. Williams, " speak of man as haviug two spirits. His shadow is called 
the 'dark spirit,' which they say goes to Hades. The other is his like- 
ness reflected in water or a looking-glass, and is supposed to stay near 
the place in which a man dies. Probably this doctrine of shadows has 
to do with the notion of inanimate objects having spirits. I once placed 
a good-looking native suddenly before a mirror. Ho stood delighted. 
'Now,' said he softly, 'I can see into the Avorld of spirits.'" 

But though spirits are naturally to be dreaded, on various accounts, 
it by no means follows that they should be conceived as necessarily 
wiser or more powerful than man. Of this our spirit-rappers and table- 
turners aiford us a familiar illustration. So also, the natives of the 
Nicobar Islands put up scarecrows round their villages to frighten away 
hostile spirits. The natives of Kamtchatka insult their deities if their 
wishes are unfulfilled. They even feel a contempt for them. " If Kutka," 
they say, " had not been stupid, would he have made inaccessible moun- 
tains and too rapid rivers ?" 

The Lapps made images of their gods, putting each in a separate box, 
on which was written the name of the deity, so that each might know 
its own box. 



356 SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

The Kyouug'tlia, of Chittagoug, are Biiddliists. Their vilhige temples 
contain a small stand of bells, and an image of Boodh, which the villa- 
gers generally worship morning and evening; "first," as Captain Lewin 
states, "ringing the bells to let him know they are there." The Sinto 
temples of the Snn Goddess in Japan also contain a bell, intended, as 
Bishop Smith tells ns, "to arouse the goddess, and to awaken her atten- 
tion to the prayers of her worshippers." 

Casalis states that when a Kaftir is on a marauding expedition, he 
gives utterance to those cries and hisses in v/hich cattle-drivers indulge 
when they drive a herd before them, thinking in this manner to persuade 
the poor divinities of the country they are attacking, that he is bring- 
ing cattle to their worshippers, instead of coming to take it from them. 

Many other illustrations might be given, but these are sufficient to 
show how low and degraded is the savage conception of the Divine 
nature. Gradually, however, as the human mind expands, it becomes 
capable of higlier and higher realizations. 

I will now describe verj^ shortly the religions of some savage races, 
beginning with the lowest, which may be called Animism. 

The religion of the Australian, if it can be so called, consists of a 
belief in the existence of ghosts, or spirits, or at any rate of evil beings 
who are not mere men. This belief cannot be said to influence them by 
day, but it renders them very unwilling to quit their camp-fire by night, 
or to sleep near a grave. They have no idea of creation, nor do they 
use prayers; they have no religious forms, ceremonies, or worship. 
They do not believe in a Supremo Deity, or in the immortality of the 
soul, nor is morality in any way connected with their religion. 

An interesting account of the religious condition of the northern 
natives has been given by a Mrs. Thomson, a Scotchwoman, who was 
wrecked on that coast, and lived alone with the natives for nearly five 
years, when she was rescued by a English ship. The Australians all 
over the continent have an idea that when the blacks die they turn into 
whites. Mrs. Thomson herself was taken for the ghost of a woman 
named Giom, and when she was teased by the children, the men would 
often say, "Leave her alone, poor thing; she is nothing, only a ghost." 

This, however, did not prevent a man named Baroto making her his 
wife, which shows how little is really implied in the statement that the 
Australians believe in the existence of spirits. In reality they do no 
more than believe in the existence of men slightly different from and 
somewhat more powerful than themselves. 

FETICHISM. 

The Fetichism of the Xegro is a step in advance, because the influence 
of religion is much raised in importance. Nevertheless, from one point 
of view, Fetichism may be regarded as an anti-religion ; for the Negro 
believes that by means of the Fetich he can coerce and control the 
deity. 

Indeed, Fetichism is mere witchcraft. We know that all over the 
world would-be magicians think that if they can obtain a part of an 
enemy, or even a bit of his clothing, they thus obtain a control over 
him. 

Nay, even the knowledge of the name is supposed to confer a certain 
power. Hence the importance which savages attach to names. Thus, 
for instance, the true name of the beautiful Pocahontas, a celebrated 
Virginian chieftainess, was Matokes ; but this name was carefully con- 
cealed from the English, lest it should give them a power over her. For 



THE LOWER RACES OF MAN. 357 

the same reason the Eomaiis carefully concealed the name of the patron 
saint of their city. 

In other cases it was thought sufficient to make an image to represent 
the original. Thus, even in the 11th century, and in Europe, some 
unfortunate Jews were accused of murdering a certain Bishop Eberhard, 
by making a wax figure to represent him, and then burning it, whereby 
the bishop died ; this indeed was a common form of witchcraft. 

Now, Fetichism seems a mere extension of this belief. The Xegro 
supposes that the possession of a Fetich representing a deity makes 
that deity his slave. 

A Fetich, therefore, differs essentially from an idol. The one is 
intended to raise man to the contemplation of the deity ; the other to 
bring the deity within the control of man. Aladdin's lamp is a fiimiliar 
instance of a Fetich ; and indeed, if witchcraft be not confused with 
religion, Fetichism can hardly be called a religion. 

Tiie low religious conceptions of the ISTegroes are well illustrated in 
the general belief that the Fetich sees with its eyes as we do ; and so 
literally is it the actual image which is supposed to see, that, when the 
Xegro is about to do anytliing of which he is ashamed, he hides his 
Fetich in his waistcloth, so that it may not be able to see what is going 
on. Fetichism, strictly speaking, has no temi^les, idols, priests, sacri- 
fices, or prayer. It involves no belief in creation, or in a future life, 
and, a fortiori, none in a state of future rewards and punishments : it is 
entirely independent of morality. 

T0TEMIS3I. 

The next stage in religious progress is that which may be called 
Totemism. The savage does not abandon his belief in Fetichism, from 
which indeed no race of man has yet entirely freed itself, but he superin- 
duces on it a belief in beings of a higher and more mysterious nature. In 
this stage everything is deified — stones, rivers, lakes, mountains, the 
heavenly bodies, even animals and i^lants. 

Various theories have been suggested to account for the origin of the 
deification of such objects. I believe that it arose principally in this 
way : A chief being named after some tree or animal, say the Black 
Bear, or the Eagle, his family would naturally take the same name. 
They would then come to look on the animal after which they were 
named, first with interest, then with respect, and at length with a sort 
of awe. 

In Australia, we seem to find the Totem, or, as it is there called, the 
"Kobong," in the very process of deification. Sir George Grey tells us 
that each family takes some animal or plant as its sign or "Kobong." 
No native will intentionally kill or eat his "Kobong,'' which shows that 
there is a mysterious feeling connected with it; but we are not told that 
in Australia the Kobong is regarded as a deity. 

In America, on the other hand, the redskins worship their Totem, 
from which they believe themselves to be actually descended. 

If we remember how low is the savage conception of a deity, we shall 
see that the larger and more iiowerful animals do, in fact, to a great 
extent, fulfill his idea. 

This is especially the case with nocturnal animals, such as the lion 
and tiger. As the savage crouching by the side of his camp-fire at night 
listens to the cries and howls of the animals prowling round, or watches 
them stealing like shadows among the trees, what wonder if he weaves 
mysterious stories about them, and eventually fancies them something 
jiore mysterious than mere mortal beings. 



358 SOCIAL AND EELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

The worsliip of the serpent is very prevalent. Its bite, so trifling in 
appearance, and yet so deadly, producing fatal effects rapidly, and ap- 
parently by no adequate means, suggests to the savage almost irresisti- 
bly the notion of something divine, according to his notions of divinity. 

There were also some lower, but powerful considerations, which tended 
greatly to the development of serpent-worship. The animal is long- 
lived, and easily kept in confinement; hence the same individual might 
be preserved for a long time, and easily exhibited at intervals to the 
multitude. In Guinea, where the sea and the serpent were the principal 
deities, the priests encouraged the worship of the latter expressly, as we 
are told, because offerings presented to the sea were washed away by 
the waves, W'hich was not the case with those offered to the serpent. 

It is somewhat more difficult to understand the deification of inani- 
mate objects. In fact, however, savages scarcely believe in the exist- 
ence of inanimate objects. Chapman mentions that the Busbmen in 
South Africa thought his big wagon was the mother of his small one. 
Hearue tells us, that the l^forth American Indians never hang up two 
nets together, for fear they should be jealous of one another, and that 
they prefer a hook which has caught a big fish to fifty which have not 
been tried. 

The South Sea Islanders not only belioved that their animals had 
souls, but also that this was the case with inanimate objects. Hence, 
the savage broke the weapons and buried with the dead, so that their 
souls might accompany that of their master to the land of spirits. 
Hence, also, on one occasion the king of the Koussa KafQrs having bro- 
ken a piece of iron from a stranded anchor, died soon after, upon which 
the Kafiirs immediately concluded that the anchor was alive and had 
killed their king. 

Some such accident probably gave rise to the ancient Mohawk notion, 
that some great misfortune would befall any one who spoke while cross- 
ing Saratoga Lake. A strong-minded English woman on one occasion 
purposely did so ; and, after landing, rallied her boatman on his super- 
stition ; but I think he had the best of it after all, for he at once replied, 
that the Great Spirit was merciful, and knew that a white woman could 
not hold her tongue. 

We find, indeed, the worship of lakes and rivers, or traces of it, all 
over the world. Even our own island is full of sacred wells and springs, 
and Scotland and Ireland especially abound with legends about water- 
spirits. I have myself seen a well in Eosshire hung round with the 
offerings of the peasantry, consisting principally of rags and half-pence. 

The worship of upright stones is also very widely distributed. This 
form of worship has been explained by M. Dulaure as arising from the 
respect paid to boundary stones. I do not doubt that, in the case of 
some particular stones, it may have so arisen. The heathen deity, 
Hermes, or Termes, was evidently of this character, and hence we may 
explain the peculiar and apparently antagonistic peculiarities attached 
to him. 

"Mercury or Hermes," says Lempriere, "was the messenger of the 
gods; he was the patron of travelers and shepherds; he conducted the 
souls of the dead into the infernal regions, and not only presided over 
orators, merchants, and declaimers, but was also the god of thieves, 
pickpockets, and all dishonest persons. He invented letters and the 
lyre, and was the originator of the arts and sciences." 

It is difficult at first to see the connection between these various 
offices, characterized as they are by such opposite peculiarities. Yet 
they all follow from the custom of making boundaries by upright stones. 



THE LOWER RACES OF MAN. 359 

Hence the name of Hermes or Termes, a boundary or terminus, while 
the name of the corresponding Eoman deity, Mercury, is connected with 
the word "march," or boundary, whence our title of marquis, meaning 
originally a person to whom was intrusted the duty of guarding the 
^' march," or neutral territory, which in the troublous times of old it 
was customary to leave between the possessions of different nations. 

These marches, not being cultivated, served as grazing grounds ; to 
them came merchants to exchange on neutral ground the products of 
their respective countries; here also, for the same reason, treaties were 
negotiated; here also international games and sports were held. Up- 
right stones were used to indicate places of burial ; and lastly, on them 
were inscribed laws and decrees, records of remarkable events, and the 
I)raises of the deceased. 

Hence Mercury, represented by a plain upright stone, was the deity 
of travelers, because he was a landmark ; of shepherds, as presiding over 
pastures ; he conducted the souls of the dead into the infernal regions, 
because even in the very early dajs upright stones were used as tomb- 
stones; he was the god of merchants, because commerce was carried on 
mainly at the frontiers ; and of thieves out of sarcasm. He was the 
messenger of the gods, because ambassadors met at the frontiers ; and 
of eloquence, for the same reason. He invented the lyre and presided 
over games, because contests in music, &c., were held on neutral ground ; 
and he was said to have invented letters, because inscriptions were 
engraved on upright pillars. 

Stone-worship in its lower phases has, however, I think, a different 
origin, and is merely' a form of that indiscriminate worship which 
characterizes the human mind in one i)hase of development. 

Fire, again, is worshipped all over the world. In ancient times it 
was for from being so easy to light a fire as it is now that we have lucifer 
matches and various other appliances for the purpose. In some parts 
of Tasmania and Australia the natives, if their tires went out, preferred 
to go long distances to get a fresh spark from another tribe rather than 
attempt to light one for themselves. 

In somewhat more advanced communities, as, for instance, in some oi 
the North American tribes, and in the familiar instance of Eome, certain 
individuals were told off to keep a fire continually burning. Thus would 
imturally arise the idea that this fire was something sacred and holy. 
The name of the classical goddess of fire, Vesta, or Hestia, means lit 
erally a health. 

The worship of fire naturally reminds us of that of the heavenly bodies, 
and especially of the sun and moon. When once the idea of religion 
had arisen, no one can wonder that they should be regarded as deities. To 
us indeed this worship seems to contain much that is grand ; and while 
many writers have refused to believe it possible that man could ever 
really have worshipped animals and plants, almost a 11 have regarded that 
of the sun and moon as natural and appropriate. 

Yet the sun and moon do not appear to have suggested the idea of 
divinity to tiie savage mind by auy other jjrocess than that already 
alluded to in the case of animals. The lowest races have never raised 
their minds to the contemplation of the sun or moon as deities. This 
worship commences only in the stage above Fetichism, that is to say, as 
a form of Totemism ; but it reaches its greatest importance at a sub- 
sequent stage of religious development. Before quitting Totemism, it 
may be well to observe that even objects most inappropriate, according 
to our ideas, have been deified by various races. 

Thus, in Central India, the Todas are said to worship a buffalo bull, 



360 SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

pouring out libations of milk, and offering prayers to it. The Kotas 
worship two siher plates, which they regard as husband and wife. They 
have no other deity. The Kinumbas worship stones, trees, and ant-hills. 
The Toreas, another neighboring hill tribe, worship especially a gold 
nosering, which x^robably once belonged to one of their women. 

Many other inanimate objects have also been worshipped. Debrossea 
mentions an instance of a king of hearts being made into a deity. 

The South Sea Islanders, who represent a distinctly higher phase of 
civilization than the hill tribes of Hindostan, or the red Indians of 
North America, present us also with a higher form of religion. Their 
deities are conceived as more powerful. In many islands there are tradi- 
tions of a powerful being who raised the land from below the waters, and in 
Tonga, until lately, it is said that the verj^ hook was shown with which 
this was effected; still the deities cannot be regarded as creators, 
because both earth and water existed before then. Neither was the 
religion of the South Sea Islanders connected with morality. Their 
deities were not supiiosed to reward the good or to punish the evil. In 
the Tonga and other islands the common people were not supposed to 
have souls at all. In Tahiti the natives believed in a future life, and 
even in the existence of separation between the spirits, some going to a 
much haiipier place than others. This, however, was not considered to 
depend on their conduct during life, but on their rank — the chiefs going 
to the happier, the remainder of the people to the less desirable locality. 

The Feejeeans believe that, as they die, sucli will be their condition 
after death. Moreover, the road to mhulu, or heaven, is long and diffi- 
cult; many souls i^erish by the way, and no diseased or infirm person 
could possibly succeed in overcoming all the dangers of the road. 
Hence, as soon as a man feels the approach of old age, he notifies to his 
children that it is time for him to die. A family consultation is then 
held, a day appointed, and the grave dug. Mr. Hunt gives a striking 
description of such a ceremony once witnessed by him. A young man 
came to him and invited him to attend his mother's funeral, which Avas 
just going to take i)lace. Mr. Hunt accepted the invitation and joined 
the procession, but was surprised to see no corpse. He asked Avhere the 
mother was, when the young man pointed out his mother, who, in Mr. 
Hunt's words, was walking along "as gay and lively as any of those 
present." When they arrived at the grave, she took an affectionate 
farewell of her children and friends, and then cheerfully submitted to be 
strangled. 

So general, indeed, was this custom in the Feejee Islands, that in 
many villages there were literally no old people, all having been put to 
death; and if we are shocked at the error which led to such dreadful 
results, we may at least see something to admire in the firm faith with 
which they acted up to their religious belief. 

It will be observed that, up to this stage, religion is entirely deficient 
in certain characteristics with which it is generally regarded as inti- 
mately associated. The deities are mortal ; they are not creators ; no 
importance is attached to true prayers; virtue is not rewarded, nor vice 
punished; there are no temi^les or priests; and, lastly, there are no 
idols. 

Up to this stage, indeed, we find the same ideas and beliefs scattered 
throughout the whole world, among races in the same low stage of men- 
tal development. 

From this point, however, differences of circumstance, differences of 
government, difi'erences of character, materially intiuence the forms of 
religious belief. Natives of cold climates regard the sun as beneficent, 



THE LOWER EACES OF MAN. 361 

those of the tropics consider liiui as evil; himting' races worship the 
moou, agriculturists the sun; again, in free communities thought is free, 
and, consequently, progressive; despots, on the contrary, by a natural 
instinct, endeavor to strengthen themselves by the support of spiritual 
terrors, and hence favor a religion of sacrifices and of priests rather 
than one of prayer and meditation. 

Lastly, the character of the race impresses itself on the religion. 
Poetry especially exercises an immense influence, as, for instance, has 
been well shown by Max ]\Iiiller and Cox to have been the case with the 
Greeks, the names of the Greek gods reapi)earing in the earlier Vedic 
poetry as mere words denoting natural objects. Thus, Dyaus, in ancient 
Sanscrit, means simply the sky ; and the expression, the " sky thunders," 
meant originally no more than it does with us. The Greeks and 
Romans, however, iiersonilied Dyaus, or Zeus; thus, they came to 
regard him as a deity, the god of thunder, the lord of heaven, and thus 
built up a whole mythology out of what were at first mere poetical 
expressions. Time, however, does not permit me to enter on this inter- 
esting part of the subject. I trust, however, that what I have said shows 
that the opinions of savages, as regards religion, differ essentially from 
those prevalent among us. Their deities are scarcely more powerful 
than themselves ; they are evil, not good ; they are to be propitiated by 
sacrifices, not by prayer; they are not creators; they are neither omnis- 
cient nor all-powerful ; they neither reward the good nor i^unish the 
evil; far from conferring immortality on man, they are not even, in all 
cases, immortal themselves. 

Where the material elements of civilization developed themselves with- 
out any corresponding increase of knowledge, as, for instance, in Mexico 
and Peru, a more correct idea of Divine power, without any correspond- 
ing enlightenment as to the Divine nature, led to a religion of terror, 
which finally became a terrible scourge of humanity. 

Gradually, however, an increased acquaintance with the laws of nature 
enlarged the mind of man. lie first supposed that the deity fashioned 
the earth, raising it out of the water, and i^reparing it as a dwelling- 
place for man; and subsequently realized the idea that land and water 
were alike created by Divine power. After regarding spirits as alto- 
gether evil, he rose to a belief in good as well as in evil deities, and 
gradually subordinating the latter to the former, worshii)ped the good 
spirits alone as gods, the evil sinking to the level of demons. 

From believing only in ghosts, he came gradually to the recognition 
of the soul ; at length uniting this belief with that in a beneficent and 
just being, he connected morality with religion, a step the importance 
of which it is scarcely possible to over-estimate. 

Thus we see that as men rise in civilization their religion rises with 
them ; that far from being antagonistic to religion, without science, true 
religion is impossible. 

The Australians dimly imagine a being, spiteful, malevolent, but v/eak, 
and dangerous only in the dark. 

The Negro's deity is more powerful, but not less hateful. Invisible, 
indeed, but subject to pain, mortal like himself, and liable to be made 
the slave of man by enchantment. 

The deities of the South Sea Islanders are some good, some evil ; but 
on the w hole, more is to be feared from the latter than to be hoped from 
the former. They ftishioned the land, but are not truly creators, for 
earth and water existed before them. They do not punish the evil, nor 
reward the good. They watch over the aiiairs of men ; but if, on the 
one hand, witchcraft has no power over them, neither, on the other, can 



362 SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF 

prayer iuflueuce them ; they require to share the crops or the booty of 
their worshipers. 

Thus, then, every increase in science — that is, in positive and ascer 
tained knowledge — brings with it an elevation of religion. 

Nor is this progress coutiued to the lower races. Even within the last 
century, science has pariiied the religion of Western Europe by rooting 
out the dark belief in witchcraft, which led to thousands of executions, 
and hung like a black pall over the Christianity of the Middle Ages. 

Yet, in spite of these immense services wdiich science has confessedly 
rendered to the cause of religion, there are still many who look on it as 
hostile to religious truth, forgetting that science is but exact knowledge, 
and that he who regards it as incompatible with hrs religion, practically 
admits that his religion is uutenable. 

Others, again, maintain that although science or religion cannot indeed 
be at variance, yet that the teaching of scientific men, or rr.ther of some 
scientific men, is in open hostility with religion. 

What justification is there, however, for this idea ? No scientific man, 
so far as I know, has ever been sui^posed to have taught anything which 
he did not himself believe. That surely was their right — nay, their duty ; 
their duty alike to themselves, to you, for their devotion to truth is 
their best claim to j'our confidence— nay, to religion also, for nothing 
could be more fatal to religion than that it should be supposed to require 
the suppression of truth. 

No, the true spirit of faith looks on the progress of science, not with 
fear but with hope, knowing- that science can influence our religious con- 
ceptions for good only. 

Whether, then, as some suppose, science is destined profoundly to 
modify our present religious views, or not — into which question I do 
not now wish to enter — no one need on that account regard it with appre- 
hension or with distrust. 

Far from it, we must be prepared to accept any conclusions to which 
the evidence may lead ; not in the spirit of resignation or of despair, but 
in the sure and certain hope that every discovery of science, even if it 
may conflict with our present opinions, and Avith convictions we hold 
dear, will open out to us more and more the majestic grandeur of the 
universe in which we live, and thus eiuible us to form nobler and there- 
fore truer conceptions of religious truth. 

The time, then, has surely now come, when scientific men need no 
longer stand on the defensive, but may call on the state, which is now 
making a great effort to establish a national system of education, and 
has ever shown itself ready to assist in the prosecution of scientific 
research — may call on the clergy, who exercise so great an influence — 
no longer to ignore in our elementary and other schools the great dis- 
coveries of the last thousand years, but to assist us in making them 
more generally known to the people of this country ; confident that a 
better acquaintance with the laws which regulate the beautiful world 
in which we live would not only diminish the evils from which we suf- 
fer, and add greatly to the general happiness, but also tend to develop 
our moral nature — to elevate and purify the whole character of man. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 



By Thomas Hexry Hlxley. 



[The foUowiug article was published, in 1865, iu " A Catalonjue of the Collection of 
Fossilsin the Museum of Practical Geology," &c. Although evidently written, at least 
iu part, long before its publication, it still remains one of the clearest and most com- 
plete summaries of the subject yet published, and as the want of such a summary has 
been frequently expressed, it is here reproduced. On account, however, of its length, 
certain passages of simple local interest have been omitted. — H.] 

I. — Peeloiixary considerations. 

The formation of the collection of fossils in the Museum of Practical 
Geology has been a necessary result of the operations of the geological 
survey of Great Britain, whose ofdcers have been engaged for many 
years past in determining the structure of the British islands ; that is, iu 
ascertaining what is the nature and the order of superpOvsition of the 
various irregular masses or regular " strata,''* piled one upon another, 
which compose these like all other parts of the earth's crust. 

If rocks and stones were soft and easily cut, nothing would be easier 
than the solution of these questions. It would be merely necessary to 
make a sufficiently deep vertical cutting of the country in any required 
direction, and the true order of the beds would be at once visible on 
the walls of the section. But it is needless to say that iu practice cut- 
ting into rocks is a very difficult and a very expensive operation, and 
that the making of such artificial sections as these, for geological pur- 
poses, is wholly out of the question. The geological surveyor is, there- 
fore, obliged to trust very largely to the accidental occurrence of natural 
sections, such as are afforded by the sea cliffs or the scarped hills which 
may occur in his line of work, and to such artificial aids as are inciden- 
tally yielded by the sinking of shafts or the cutting of railroads. 

It becomes, consequently, of essential importance to him to possess a 
means of identifying the beds which he finds in one section with those 
in another. Similarity or dissimilarity of miueralogical composition will 
not always help him, as this quality not only varies in the same stratum, 
but is similar in widely different strata ; so that beds of limestone in one 
place may correspond as regards age and position with sandy or clayey 
strata elsewhere. On the other hand, the continuity of a stratum be- 
tween any two points examined would be clear aud decisive as to its 
identity at the two points, but this evidence, for the reasons Just stated, 
is but rarely attainable ; and where, as so frequently ha]ipens, the strata 
have been disturbed from their original position, widely separated, 
or partially destroyed between the two points, it becomes hopeless to 
seek for any such proof. AVere there no other test of the nature of a 
stratum at any given point than its mineral character, and its continuity 
with some other stratum whose place iu the series was known, we might 

*Str.vtusi. — A single layer of the earth's crust, whatever its composition, is techni- 
cally termed a stratum. For simplicity's sake, the often highly irregular nnisses of 
igneous rock which enter largely into the composition of the earth's crust, and which 
might not technically be termed ''strata," may be left out of consideration. 



Ob4 TKINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALACONTOLOGY. 

have a series of local topographies, but no scieuce of geology; nor could 
tljose great laws ever have been established by wliicli tlie geologist, 
acquainted with the surface rock of a country, is enabled to predict with 
much confidence what may, and what cannot, be found beneath it. 

These laws are in truth entirely based on the study of the "fossils" 
contained in the rocks ; it is upon this science of fossils, or " palaeon- 
tology,"* that another and most important method of determining the 
nature and order of the strata rests. Universal experience has shown 
that every series of strata contains assemblages of fossils which are 
peculiar to and characteristic of it; which are usually found in it, and 
never found out of it ; and observation has further demonstrated that 
the strata thus characterized are arranged in an order of superposition 
which is everywhere constant. It follows, therefore, that the fossils con- 
tained in a stratum of rock are capable of revealing to us, at once, the 
position of that stratum in the whole series, and of informing us what 
lies above and what below it. 

A common example will illustrate the practical value of the informa- 
tion thus obtained. 

It is shown by experience that in these islands extensive beds of good 
workable coal are never found below that particular series of strata 
termed, collectively, the " carboniferous formation." ^Nevertheless, fos- 
silized vegetable matters occur in other strata, and have not unfre- 
(luently misled owners of estates into undertaking ruinously exjiensive 
and wholly fruitless mining operations, which Avould never have been 
commenced had they availed themselves of the information aftbrded by 
the fossils of the surface rocks. For it is clear that a preliminary exami- 
nation of these fossils will show at once whether they belong to strata 
below the carboniferous rocks or nbove them. If the former be the case, 
then the sinking a shaft is absurd, as every blow of the pickaxe must 
take the miner, in reality, further away from the object of his search; 
if the latter, on the other hand, success is at any rate possible, though 
the expediency of making the attempt will depend upon many contin- 
gencies. 

i^Tow it is clear that, if the fossils contained in the rocks constituting 
the surface in every district of Great Britain had been examined, it would 
be possible, by coloring a map of these islands in such a manner that all 
those parts whose fossils indicated their inferiority to the carboniferous 
formation should be blue, and all those which lay above it should be red, 
to indicate at once to the miner where his search for coal might possibly 
be successful, and where it must necessarily fail. And, furthermore, if 
the fossils on which the coloring was based were placed in a museum 
for iiublic inspection, it would be open to every one to examine for him- 
self the evidence on which the map stood, and to satisfy himself of the 
accuracy of this part of the work of the surveyors. 

What is here supposed to be done with reference to this one set of 
beds — the carboniferous formation — has, in effect, been performed by 
the labors of the geological surveyors of Great Britain for all the strata 
which enter into the comi)osition of the British Islands. The place 
where each constitutes the surface rock is marked by an appropriate 
color on the maps of the survey. The fossils which have served as the 
standards of comparison in determining the nature of the strata are 
open to general inspection in the Museum of Practical Geology. In one 
sense, therefore, the collection of fossils is simply the product of and 
key to the maps of the survey. 

* Palaeontology. — Derived from three Greek words, sigoifying ".lucieat" and 
'■being " and " discourse." The science of ancient beines. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY'. 365 

Importaut as it is, however, to tlie welfare aucl prosperitj' of the 
couutry that an accnrato record sliouki exist of the composition of its 
share of the earth's crust, whence the miner, the metalkirgist, and the 
mineralogist extract so many products of the utmost value to man, and, 
indeed, indispensable to the maintenance of his present complex state 
of civilization to suppose that this immediate and so-called '* practical" 
object of the collection is the only, or even the most important, end 
that it subserves, would be as great an error as that of the barbarous 
Oriental, Avho sees nothing but a convenient stone quarry in those mas- 
sive pyramids, on whose walls the instructed Eastern traveler reads the 
history of an ancient world, and learns the more, the more knowledge 
and capacity he brings to the inquiry. In truth, the history, not merely 
of one but of a series of ancient worlds, is written upon tke rocks which 
compose the solid coating- of the globe in signs the meaning of which is 
decipherable with far more ease and certainty than that of hieroglyphic 
or cuneiform inscriptions ; or we might say that, as it is the custom in 
these times to deposit the coins and medals of the age under the founda- 
tion stones of a building-, so the Great Artificer has, as he laid each 
course of stone in the world's foundations, deposited coins and medals ol 
His striking-, the remains of the then existing system of organic life, 
the bones and shells of the contemporaneous living beings. 

But a history in an unknown tongue can be profitable only to those 
who will take the trouble to acqmre a knowledge of the construction of 
the language, and of the signification of its words and signs. Now, 
natural history, or the science of the structure and habits of living 
beings, is the grammar and dictionary of the language of fossils. To 
understand all that fossils teach, natural history must have been the 
study of a life; but a clear comprehension and careful recollection of a 
few of its simpler principles will be sufficient to enable a person of in- 
telligence, unversed in science, to apprehend the wider bearings of the 
collection. To aiford this assistance is the sole object of the pres- 
ent explanatory preface. It is intended to awaken even a casual visitor 
to a sense of the profoundly interesting problems which the collection 
forces upon our consideration ; to enable him to comprehend how it is 
that the naturalist reads here, as plainly as if it were stated in to-daj's 
paper, and with considerably more faith than he would place in any 
mere human affirmation, that the earth has undergone a great series of 
changes, stretching- over enormous periods of time ; that its living popu- 
lation has not always been what it is now, but that the present kinds of 
animals and plants have been preceded by others widely ditfering- from 
them, and these by others, and so on, for an indefinite series of altera- 
tions ; that these changes have been accompanied hj constant altera- 
tions in climate and in the level of the land and sea ; finally, that the 
period of time of which these records furnish the history is inconceiva- 
bly immense. 

These are weighty articles of belief, and nothing- can seem, at first, to 
be less likely than that the accumulation of oddly marked and shaped 
stones, which are ^^sible on the shelves around, should contain abund- 
ant evidence of their validity and truth ; but so it is. How it is, will 
be rendered clear by what follows. 

II. — Brief exposition of those principles of natural history 

WHICH are op the MOST IMPORTANCE TO 'THE UNDERSTANDING 
OF FOSSILS. 

It has been stated that natural history is the key to palaeontology, and 
hence, before attempting to learn the meaning of fossils, it is necessary 



366 PRLVCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 

to be acquaintetl witli those principles of biological science wliich bear 
most directly upon the subject: 

1. The most important of all the generalizations of natural history, 
and, indeed, one of the most brilliant additions which the progress of 
modern science has made to human knowledge, is the law that all ani- 
mals and plants are associated and arranged according to certain fixed 
laws. 

Thus, to select an example from the animal kingdom : There is an 
immense variety of hoofed ruminating animals, antelopes, sheep, oxen, 
deer, giraffes, camels ; but notwithstanding the extreme difference in 
the aspect of these well-known creatures, the anatomist discovers that 
they exhibit a great number of common characters. Thus — 

a. All jiossess a backbone, or vertebral column, separating the great 
centers of the nervous system from those of the alimentary and circu- 
latory apparatus, and the latter is situated on the ventral, front, or 
downward face of the body; none have more than two pairs of limbs; 
the chief central nervous system is not pierced by the alimentary canal. 

b. All have a heart with four cavities ; possess lungs and a midriff" or 
diaphragm ; and have two facets on the hinder part of the skull, for ar- 
ticulation Avith the foremost bone of the spinal column. In all, each 
half of the lower jaw is in a single piece, and is articulated directly 
with the skull by a convex head ; they all possess mammary glands for 
suckling their young. 

c. The teeth are in all more or less deficient in the front part of the 
upper jaw ; they all possess complex stomachs, and not more than two 
completely developed long bones in the middle region of the fore and 
hind feet. 

It would be easy to make a drawing embodying all these peculiari- 
ties, and that drawing would stand in precisely the same relation to the 
group of "ruminants" (technically called '-'■ BuminanticC) as the ground 
I)lan of a single house does to the street which the architect means to 
build of houses of that size and general form. The superstructure of 
each house may, if the architect pleases, be totally different in style, 
without in any way interfering with his general plan; and similarly, in 
each particular ruminant, the common plan is preserved, while the de- 
tails of the " elevation," the size, the figure, the proportions, the orna- 
mentation in the way of color and horns, vary to an immense extent. 

Having thus acquired a notion of the "common plan" of the rumi- 
nantia, it will be found, on turning to other equivalent groups or " orders " 
of the MammaJla, (or animals which suckle their young,) that a corre- 
sponding common jjlan may be found for each ; and when all these 
common i^lans are compared together, it will be discovered that there are 
certain respects in which they agTee. All mammalia, in fact, possess the 
anatomical characters enumerated under the preceding heads a and b. 
Hence, a drawing exhibiting these features would serve as a "common 
plan" of the mammalia, and the common plans of the orders of mammals, 
ruminantia,* carnivora, &c., might be regarded as modifications of the 
plan of all mammals in the same sense as each ruminant is a modifica- 
tion of the common i)lan of all ruminants. But now, if we were to extend 
our researches further, and compare mammals with birds, reptiles, am- 
phibia, and fishes, we should discover a still more remarkable fact, viz : 
that all these creatures, and only these of all living tilings, possess the 
character enumerated under the first head. Hence, a drawing or dia- 
gram embodying these characters would represent the common plan of 

* Strictly speaking, the group Ruminantia is only apart of the modern order Artiodtic- 
tyla, but it was convenient here to use the term in its old sense and vahie, or rather 
sub-order Artiodactyla of the order Ungidata. ) 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 367 

these auimals, which are collectively termed the Vcrtehrata ; and it would 
stand in the same relation to the common plans of birds, mammals, rep- 
tiles, amphibia, and fishes, as the ruminant plan did to oxen, sheep, and 
antelopes. 

By carrying investigations of this kind into the rest of the animal 
kingdom it has been shown that every animal whatsoever is a modifica- 
tion of one or otherof five great common plans — the plan of the Vertebmta, 
that of the Anmdosa, that of the Cwleiiterata, and that of the Protozoa. 
This division of the animal kingdom is not generally adopted in this 
country; that most prevalent recognizes the branches Vcrtehrata, Ar- 
ticulata, Molnsca, Racliata, and Protozoa. 

It is most important, however, not to form a wrong idea as to the real 
import of these "common plans." We must regard them simply- as de- 
vices by which we render more clear and intelligible to our own minds 
the great truth that the parts of living bodies are associated together 
according to certain definite laws. Why it is that an animal which 
suckles its young should invariably possess a double articular surface at 
the back of its skull, should have the articular surface of its lower jaw 
convex or flat and not concave, and should always be i)rovided with 
hairs and never with feathers, we know as little as why the earth turns 
from west to east, and not from east to west; but if the morphological 
law which expresses this invariable coexistence, or correlation, of organic 
peculiarities has been as regularly verified by our experience as the as- 
tronomical law, we may, for all practical purposes, reckon as securely 
upon the constancj- of oue relation as npon that of the other. 

It is, indeed, remarkable to how great an extent we may depend upon 
these laws, and how seemingly unimportant, and in the present state of 
physiology inexplicable, many of the most constant correlations of ani- 
mal parts are. Thns the profoundest of "teleologists"* will, probably, 
hesitate to attempt to account, by any physiological reasoning, for the 
above-stated invariable occurrence of true hairs in those auimals only 
which suckle their young and have two occipital condyles; but, never- 
theless, if a single hair ha placed before a naturalist he will be able, in 
many cases, not only at once to decide that the animal to Vvhich it belongs 
possesses a backbone, has four limbs, suckles its young, has a heart with 
four distinct cavities, possesses lungs ; but he may be able to go into miii ute 
details as to the structure of its lirain, and the arrangement and number of 
its teeth. How does he know these things ? Simply because experience 
teaches him that the structure of the hair in question is found as a constitu- 
ent part of only 07ie particular plan of organization, and, therefore, maybe 
depended upon as an iudication of all the other peculiarities of that ]>lan. 
Just as when a particular characteristic,' fossil is found we may predi- 
cate what other fossils will be found in the same bed, without having 
the least idea of the why and the v»herefore of the association; so thci 
apparently trivial and unimportant hair indicates, we know not why, all 
the other structural p-'culiarities which experience shows to be associated 
with it. We shall find the application of these trutlis by and by in con- 
sidering the methods by wliich fjssils are determiiicd. 

Important coasequeiices ilow from the fact that the forms of living 
beings are modeled upon common })lans, and, from the kind of relation 
wliich exists between any actual fortn and its j)lai!. Thus the vertebrate 
plan, as has been seen, undergoes five modifications, each of which con- 
stitutes the common plan of a large assemblage of animals — of mammals, 

* TF.LKOLOGy. — The doctrine of final causes. " Teleoloj^ist," one wLo ^eeks fur tlie final 
causes of plienoineua. 



368 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 

of birds, of reptiles, of arapliibians, and of fishes; and if we select any 
of these subordinate plans we find it a^ain modified so as to constitute 
the plans of the minor subdivisions of these great assemblages. The 
reptilian plan is modified in one way to form the plan of the turtle tribe, 
in another to constitute that of the crocodiles, in another that of the 
lizards, of the snakes, and so forth. And, in like manner, the common 
plan of any great division of the animal kingdom is seen, in nature, to 
be modified into a series of more and more altered and specialized plans, 
each of which is common to the members of a progressively smaller sub- 
division of the group, until at length we arrive at the smallest assem- 
blage of beings which can be said to possess a particular common jjlan ; 
or, in other words, which exhibits characters common to all its constitu- 
ents, and not possessed by those of any other group. 

It is by reason of these singular relations among the forms of living- 
beings that Avhat is termed a "natural classification" is possible. In the 
ordinary business of life, whenever it is necessary to recollect and have 
at command a multiplicity of objects, we "classify" those objects; we 
arrange them in groups or packets distinguished by particular marks 
and having a particular order. Thus it is that the merchant arranges 
his wares, the librarian his books, the lawyer his papers; and the 
imturalist, in like manner, would find it utterly impossible to grapple 
with the details of the two or three hundred thousand distinct forms of 
living beings, which are the object of his study, unless he could in some 
way classify and arrange them. 

Now the aiui of classification may vary. Many persons imagine that 
natural history is the knowledge of the names which have been affixed 
to animals and plants by men of science; and the wish of such i^ersons 
is to have a classification so contrived as to enable them, with the least 
possible trouble, to ascertain what name has been affixed to an object, 
or, better still, to determine that no name has been given to it, when 
they have the satisfaction of baptizing it themselves. These " natural- 
ists," necessarily, desire in a classification only a good index and diction- 
ary of the names of animals and plants, and it matters not by what marks 
they designate their groups so long as those marks are easily discovera- 
ble and readily remembered. Thus, plants might be divided according 
to the number of stamens in the flower, while animals might be classed 
according to the number of their teeth, the shape and number of their 
legs, &c. ; and arrangements of this kind, if skillfully made, might have 
no small value and use in helping us to discover what animals and plants 
are, and what are not known, but it is clear they would be purely arbi- 
trary ; there would be no necessary relation between the members of the 
sarious groups beyond the single point in which "they agree ; in other 
words, the classification would be "artificial" and not "natural." 

But the low conception of the objects of the science of natural history, 
from which such artificial classifications flowed, has given ifiace to other 
and higher views, and with it all artificial systems have become exploded, 
or relegated to their proper place as mere aids to the memory. The nat- 
uralist of the present day, in fact, stands to him of the past in the relation 
of a iSf iebuhr, a Hallam, or a Guizot, to the gossiping compiler ofuchroniquc 
scandidciiscj or, at best, to a Froissart or a Burnett. Without despising 
the importance of a knowledge of the names and habits of living beings, 
he sees beyond this, and overruling it, a higher and a nobler aim — the 
investigation of the laws of life, of the principles discoverable amid the 
multiform structures of living beings, and of the relations in which they 
stand to one another and to the surrounding universe. 

For such objects an artificial classification is useless, if not obstructive. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 369 

The laws of life cau only be obtained by observation of the facts of life 
and generalization from those facts, and the philosophical naturalist 
seeks that classilication which shall best enable him to remember facts 
and generalizations already won, and shall most efficiently assist him to 
obtain others. 

As Ciivier lias well expressed it, modern classification endeavors to 
throw the facts of the structure of living beings into the fewest possible 
general propositions. Each living being, therefore, has been compared 
with all others, and tbose from which it is not separated by any constant 
difference are grouped together as one '• species." The different species 
have next been compared, and those which agree in some one or more 
characters, wliile they differ from all others in these characters, are 
urranged into a larger group, called a "genus." By a like procedure, 
genera have been grouped into "families;" these into "orders," orders 
into "classes," and classes into "subkingdoms," v/hich last are the pri- 
mary subdivisions of the animal and vegetable "kingdoms" respectively. 

The resemblances and differences upon which the groups are founded, 
being based on a comparison of the whole organization of living beings, 
are thorough and fundamental, and, as it were, indicated by nature her- 
self. Hence this mode of classification has been termed "natural," in 
contradisfinction to those i)reviously leferred to, the divisions of which 
are founded on insulated and superficial relations. 

But it is obvious that if animals and ]dants were not constructed upon 
common plans, it would be impossible to throw them into groups 
expressive of their greater or less degree of resemblance, such as those 
of the natural classification. In fact, the doctrine of "common plan" 
and of "natural classification" are but two ways of expressing the great 
truth, that the more closely we examine into the inner nature of living 
beings, the more clearly do we discern that there is a sort of family 
resemblance among them all, closer between some, more distant between 
others, but still pervading the whole series. 

There is yet another way in which this doctrine has been expressed. 
In every group there is some average form, some form which occupies a 
sort of central place, around which the rest seem to arrange themselves; 
and this form may therefore be taken as the representative of the group, 
as the nearest actual embodiment of the common plan. Such a form is 
commonly called the fj/pe of the group ; and in this sense an antelope 
might be termed the type of the Ruminanfia ; a dog of the Carnivora. 
It is in this sense that tlie word "type" will be used in these pages; but 
it is proper to remark that the term is not uncommonly applied to the 
most characteristic and marked form of a group. In this sense a cat 
ratlier than a dog would, perhaps, be selected as a typical carnivore. 

The phrase "family resemblance" has been used above, and it, perhaps, 
expresses better than any other the sort of likeness which exists among 
the members of a natural group; specific and generic alliance having the 
same sort of relation as brotherhood and cousinhood. But it is import- 
ant to remember that the classification of animals and plants stands on 
its own basis, and is entirely independent of physiological considera- 
tions. For the purposes of the classifier it is wholly immaterial whether, 
as some maintain, "species" are immutable and have taken their origin 
independently of one another, directly from the hand of the Creator; 
or whether, as others think, they are indefinitely modifiable, and have 
all resulted Ironi the changes induced by external influences upon some 
common stock. If all forms of living beings were fossil, and we knew 
nothing about life, the natural classilication of animals and plants would 
beexactly what it is now; except as it might be affected by the resulting 
24 s 



;70 



PEINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAJ:ONTOLOGY. 



deficiencies in our knowledge. At the same time, the ipj|niry into the 
permanence or modifiability of species is, in itself, of the highest import- 
ance and interest; and it will be ue(!essar.y to advert to the bearings of 
the little definite evidence Ave at present possess u\Hm the subject in 
some of the following pages, 

(Here follows in tlie original, on pages xix — xxix, a review of the 
sub kingdoms and classes of animals: but as there are several disputed 
points, and as the author him.self has since modified his views, they are not 
reproduced.) 

The Protozoa, as a whole, are evidently sim])ler in structure and less 
variously endowed thau the Coehlenterata ; the Coehlenterata than the 
Mollusca or Annnlom; and none of the last approach either birds or 
mammals in complexity. 

Again, a lamprey is a simpler animal than a horse, a worm thau a bee. 

These indubitable facts are commonly expressed by the phrase that 
the simpler aninmls are lower and less perfect than the higher, and this 
indeed, in one sense, they truly are. But we should greatly err in sup- 
posing that less j^erfcciion implies imperfection; or in imagining that the 
less perfect animal is in any way unfitted for the conditions under which 
it lives. Were it so, its race would necessarily sooner or later cease to 
exist. If we look closely into the matter, it will be found that by "less 
perfect" and "low in the scale of life," one of two things is meant, either 
firstly, that the creature of which the assertion is made is a less compli- 
cated apparatus; or secondly, that the parts of which it is composed 
differ from one another comparatively little in form and structure. 

It is Avorth while to consider each of these cases more fully. Every 
animal (indeed it might be said every living thing) has in the gross the 
same kind of work to do: it has to take in the food necessary for its 
support; it has to change this into other i^roductsand to mold them into 
its own peculiar form. Lastly, it has to exhibit that kind of reaction 
upon external impressions which is known as " irritability." Absorption, 
metamorphosis, and irritability, these are the three great " functions" 
of all animals. 

Now the difference between one animal and another, as to the mode 
in which the functions are performed, is very similar to the difference 
which exists between one human society and another, as to the mode in 
which the affairs of life are carried out. All human wants may be 
summed up in two Avords : sustenance and freedom ; but the mode in 
Avhich men secure the satisfaction of their wants varies with the perfec 
tion of their social state. In saA^age life every man procures his oavu 
food, and relies for his security from constraint upon the strength of his 
own arm. But this state of things is manifestly incompatible with any 
great adA^ance, either in those arts which minister to the physical, or in 
those which satisfy the moral nature. If a man has to find his food 
CA^ery day he Avill not spend much time in cooking it ; and if he is liable 
to be attacked by an enemy at all hours, he is pretty sure never to at- 
tain to much eminence as a painter or a violinist. By the necessity of 
the case, then, Avhere every man has to do CA^erything for himself, noth- 
ing will be done very Avell; no man Avill be much better than another, 
and none Avill be A^ery far above the level of mere animal existence. 

Contrast this state of things Avith that Avhich obtains among the 
active members of a highly civilized society, such as our own. Each 
dcA'otes himself to one occupation, striving to carry out that in the best 
possible manner; and trusting to others Avho dcA^ote themselves to other 
specialities for the satisfaction of all the rest of his Avants. There is a 
" division of labor;" the wants of mankind are split up, as it were, into 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 371 

a hundred subdi\isious, and every man charges himself with the satis- 
faction of one of these subdivisions, hoping* that, in exchange, liis own 
ninety-nine wants will be satisfied by others. So that, in one sense, a 
hundred civilized men may be said to be the equivalent of but one sav- 
age ; while, if, on the other hand, we regard the nature of the i)roducts 
of civilization, and balance the sum of the work done on each side, the 
advantage on the side of civilization is infinite. 

It is j)recisely this division of the physiological* labor, the organism, 
which constitutes the first of the two great kinds of difference between 
animals. Some Protozoa have no definite aperture for the taking in of 
food, no muscles, and no limbs. Every part of the body-wall may serve 
in turn as mouth or locomotive organ. In others there is a month, but 
no definite alimentary canal, and the contractile locomotive apparatus 
is limited to one part of the body. In the Ccelenterata the mouth and 
digestive cavity are permanently appropriated to that ofiice, though not 
separate from the rest of the cavity of the body. The motor organs are 
still more definite and serve as organs of prehension and offense. In 
the Mollusca the digestive cavity is ijermaneut and completely separated 
from the walls of the body. A blood system is developed to carry the 
nutritive matter to all parts of the body. Another portion of the organ- 
ism is converted into muscle, and can do little but contract ; another 
has nothing to do but to form shell ; another, the nervous system and 
organs of sense, is charged with the sole duty of putting the different 
parts of the organism in relation with one another, and Avith the external 
world. Thus, in the mollusk, each part of the organism is charged with 
a special function, and, to the same extent, has become dependent on 
others. The stomach that digests depends on the blood for its own 
nourishment. The muscle that enables the animal to seize its prey 
would perish without the aid of the stomach and the blood, and would 
be ineffectual without the nervous sj^stem which guides it. The mollusk 
does no more in the long run than the Amccha; it absorbs food, it modi- 
fies it, and it exhibits irritability, but the manner in which it does all 
these things is infinitely superior, and enables it to disi)lay powers of 
which the Amoeba exhibits no trace. 

It is needless to pursue the argument further, or it would be easy to 
show that the difference between man and the mollusk, as physiological 
machines, is of the same kind as that between the mollusk and the pro- 
tozoon ; in short, phystological perfection is in i)roportion to the division 
of the labor of the whole organism among organs specially adapted to 
particular offices. 

The other sense in wliich perfection is attributed to living beings is 
morphological, t The MoUuscaj an a whole, are more perfect than the 
Ccelenterata^ because they exhibit a greater number of specialized and 
diversiform parts and organs, quite irrespective of the functions of 
those parts and organs ; and the vcrtehrata, in their fundamental char- 
acter, the possession of a true primordial internal skeleton, exhibit a 
greater complexity of structure than any mollusk, or any annulose 
animal. 

It of course usually happens that physiological and morphological 
complexity go hand in hand, but it should be remembered that the con- 
junction is not a necessary one. The lowest vertebrate animal, for in- 



* PnVsioLOGY. — The science wiiich treats of the forces exerted by liviuj; beings 
irrespective of their forms ; except so f;vr as these couti'ibute to the exertion of theso 
forces. 

tMoHPUOLOGY. — The science which treats of the forms ol living beings without re- 
ifiird to their functions. 



372 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 

stanco, is in some morphological respects more complex than the highest 
jiiollusk, but i)hysiologically it is less so. 

One otlier (iominonly-used phrase, expressive of the relation between 
different kinds of living beings, reqnires explanation, as ils employment 
in an erroneous sense has led to grave errors. There is a current im- 
pression that the lover animnls correspond with the embryonic condi- 
tions of the higher; that, in the course of their development, the lower 
animal advances up to a certain point and then stops, while the higher 
goes on. 

This notion, however, is entirely incorrect ; there is no known adult 
animal which would be regarded by any naturalist as of the same species 
with any early condition of another animal, if the two were submitted 
to hiiii for comparison. In no stage of their existence would a compe- 
tent naturalist regard embryonic reptiles, or mammals, as fishes; in no 
stage would he take an insect for a worm, or a cnttlelish for any lower 
mollusk. The whole of this idea, the truth of which has been assumed 
so often in geological speculations, rests upon a misunderstanding of an 
undoubted tact, namely, that there is a time in the development of each 
when all members of a sub kingdom resemble one another very closely, 
and that they remain alike for a longer or shorter i)eriod according to 
the closeness or remoteness of their affinity. Thus there is a time when 
the embryo of a llsh could be hardly distinguished from that of a rep- 
tile, a bird, or a mammal. But the embryo lish sooner becomes unlike 
a mammal than the embryo reptile or bird; and the embryo quadru- 
pedal mammal remains longer like a human embryo than does that of a 
lish or rei>tile. 

Thus all animals in their youngest condition have, for a longer or 
shorter time, a similar form, from which each diverges to take its spe- 
cial configuration; if one may so say, they travel along the same road for 
a shorter or longer distance, and then each goes aside to its own place. 
But this is a very different matter from any one form being an arrest 
of development of another. Of two men traveling together along the 
great North road, one may be going to Newcastle and the other to 
York. But it would be a very insufficient and erroneous description of 
the journey of the one to say that is was merely that of the other cut 
short. 

3. The next great principle of natural history of whicli some definite 
notion must be obtained, is the doctrine of what is called the "distribu- 
tion" of living beings. It is a matter of familiar experience that ele- 
l)hants, lions, and rhinoceroses are not at present indigenous in Great 
Ijiitain; and humming birds, crocodiles, and flying fish are as strange 
to us as are the white bear, the ermine, and the musk ox. Nevertheless, 
the latter animals are found abundantly in more northern latitudes, 
while the former swarm within the tropics. Were any one to visit the 
countries in which the white bear and the crocodile respectively abound, 
he would discover that there was a certain northern limit beyond which 
the crocodile was never seen; ami, on the other hand, that the white 
bear never ran ~es ^outh of a given latitude. In other words, the white 
bear and the crocodile are found within, or are distributed over, certain 
limited spaces of the earth's surface, and lines drawn on a globe so as to 
inclose these spaces, would indicate the "geographical distribution" of 
these animals. 

There are hardly any s]>ecies of animals and plants which are not in 
like manner confined within limited geographical areas, and hence if we 
were to set out from England, and travel either duo south or due north, 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 373 

■we should find that a gradual change would take place iu the fauna* 
and flora of the countries traversed, their inhabitants diftering' more and 
more widely from those of this country, the more nearly they approxima- 
ted either the pole or the ecpiator. Xor is this result other than might 
be naturally exi)ected, for we know how closely dependent the health and 
strength of animals and plants are upon the amount of heat, light, and 
moisture to which they are exposed ; and in traveling due north or due 
south, these climatal conditions necessarily become very greatly altered. 
A corresponding change iu the flora and fauna is observed when, in a 
mountainous country, we ascend from the plains to the line of perpet- 
ual snow; and the animal and vegetable inhabitants of the sea in like 
manner vary in character and abundance atdilferent depths. But these 
cases also seem readily intelligible, for elevation has much the same 
effect on climate as northing; and every fathom of increased depth iu 
the sea corresponds with a certain diminution in the amount of light 
and a certain alteration in temperature. 

Again there seems to be no difliculty in understanding why, as we 
find to be the case, terrestrial animals and plants differ from those whose 
existence is spent iu the water; nor why, among purely aquatic crea- 
tures, the inhabitants of fresh water are usually widely different from 
those of the sea. The discrepancy in form seems quite iu harmony with 
the discrepancy in external circumstances. 

But there are some other facts connected with distribution, the cause 
of which is by no, means so obvious. If the traveler, instead of moving 
to the north or to the south of this country, journeyed east or west, keep- 
ing as nearly as possible within similar climatal conditions, he would, 
nevertheless, still find that the successive faunas and floras through 
which he passed were widely different ; and if a voyager were to cir- 
cumnavigate the globe between the parallels of 40° and 00° S., touch- 
ing at ports in the continents of Africa, Australia, and America, the 
differences between the indigenous animals of each country would be 
immense, and altogether out of i)roi)ortiou to the changes in climatal 
conditions. 

The globe, then, maybe marked out by boundary lines, some of which 
ruu northerly and southerly, and others easterly and westerly, into a 
number of districts or •'provinces," each of which is characterized by a 
peculiar assemblage of animals and plants. And again, each district 
might be subdivided by lines parallel ^vith the horizon, into zones of 
depth and of height, iu each of which a certain group of this assem- 
blage would flourish. It nuist be remembered, however, that neither 
zones nor provinces are capable of a strict limitation, there being always 
a border-land between every two, iu which the inhabitants of both are 
mixed. 

The phenomeua of distribution in depth are i^articularly worthy of 
attention, from their bearing on geology; for it is obvious that if we 
are enabled to lay down certain rules with regard to the depth at which 
particular forms live, we shall be able, when we find these forms in an 
ancient sea-bed, to form a judgment as to the depth of that sea-bed, and 
hence, in many cases, to gather valuable indications as to the proximity 
or distance of dry laud. Every one who has walked along the sea shore 
is familiar with certain forms of life — barnacles, limpets, periwinkles, 

•The term "Fauna" is applied to the whole of the animal inhabitants, "i^^/ora" to the 
■whole of the plants, of a district or country. Thus, the fauna of Africa means all the 
animals found in Africa ; the Hora of India, the tlora of Kent, means all the planta 
f(mnd in India and Kent respectively. In speaking thus it will be understood that the 
"indigenous " animals and i>lants, or those which natiually exist in a country, are alone 
referred to. 



374 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 

flojjwhelks, shore crabs, Trliich cover the rocks between high aud low 
water marks. During calm weather he might imagine that these consti- 
tuted the chief inhabitants of the sea; but should a heavy gale of wind 
set in landwards, he is soon undeceived, for the waves, tearing up the 
sea bottom at depths greater than those which are ordinarily exposed 
by the recession of the tide, cast on shore vast numbers of new crea- 
tures, such as whelks, sandstars, corallines, and great masses of sea- 
weed, with whole colonies of animals attached to them, which habitually 
remain in the deeper regions. 

Not satisfied with such accidental revelations, modern investigators 
have systematized and extended the explorations of marine depths by 
means of the use of the "dredge," a simple apparatus, long used by 
oyster fishermen to procure their merchandise, aud, of course, equally 
applicable to the dragging up of other inhabitants of the tloor of the 
sea. 

It results from a loug series of such observations that at least five 
zones, each characterized by peculiar forms of animal or vegetable life, 
may be distinguished at dilierent depths. They are, 1st, the "littoral" 
zone, corresponding with the interval between high aud low watermarks; 
I'd, tlie "circumlittoral" zone, extending from low water mark to the 
lowest limit at which the coral-like plant Nidlipora is found, a depth, in 
our latitudes, of between fifteen and twenty fathoms; 3d, the "median" 
zone, characterized by the abundance of Polyzoa and 8ertularidw which 
it exhibits, and by the i)redomiuauce of carnivorous forms among its 
Molhisca; it extends in our seas to about fifty fathoms; 4th, the " infra- 
median," and, 5th, the "abyssal" zones lie beyond this, but can be hardly 
said at present to be well defined. It is in them that our corals and 
Brachiopoda flourish. Much attention has of late been paid to the 
investigation of the deep sea animals and plants, and numerous species 
have been found at very great depths. As might have been expected, 
from the greater uniformity of physical conditions at such depths, the 
same species have been found at very distant localities, and exhibit a 
wide geographical range in latitude as well as longitude. Another 
peculiarity more marked even than could have been anticipated is the 
afiQuity and even identity of many species with tertiary and cretaceous 
forms. 

The extreme limits of vegetable and of animal life are not known. The 
higher Algw, such as sea weeds and NulUpora,, are, in our own latitudes, 
not found below twenty fathoms; but it is not improbable that the 
JJiatomacecc flourish at the furthest limits of life. 

Both the number of si)ecies and the number of individuals of animals 
diminish at greater depths. A greater profundity than two hundred 
fathoms is not to be reached within a very considerable distance of any 
part of the British coasts; but in both northern and southern seas living 
animals have been drawn up from more than three hundred fathoms (or 
1,800 feet) below the surface. It is important to remark that the inhab- 
itants of these aud still greater depths, however diminished in number, 
do not appear to become degraded in organization, but consist of Crus- 
tacea, Echinodcrmata, Gasteropoda, Lamellibranchiata, Polyzoa, and Acti- 
nozoa, of types quite as elevated as those which are found in more sluillow 
waters, but they are frequently less brilliantly colored than the latter. 
While the laws of distribution, as they have been at present determined, 
therefore, do not enable us to say precisely at what depth living animals 
can no longer exist, nor even to trace the influence of depth in modify- 
ing their forms, they seem, nevertheless, to point to certain assemblages 
as characteristic of certain ranges of depth. For inst.-.nce, limpets and 
periwinkles appear to be absolutely characteristic of shallow water, being 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 375 

found but a very short way beyond tide marks. The h)wer limit of the 
plant Nidlipora, on the other hand, seems to mark in all seas the line of 
demar(%ation between moderate depths (under one hundred fathoms) and 
great deptlis. 

We must remember, however, in attempting to a])ply these geuerali 
zations, that as yet distribution in depth has hardly been fairly worked 
out, even in temperate latitudes, and that before we can safely enunciate 
laws of general application, a vast number of observations must be made 
in l)otli tropical and aix'tic climates. 

The fact of the ai)parently capricious limits which have been assigned 
to man^' animals has been alluded to above. That all animals are 
adapted to the conditions in which they live is a truism, for if they were 
not so ada])ted they would not live, but die; but the strange fact is that 
we do not always tind anjmals in those conditions for whicli they are 
adapted. At the present day millions of horses run wild over the Pampas 
of South America, and these great plains are overspread svith a peculiar 
kind of thistle ; there can be no doubt, therefore, that the climatal and 
other conditions of this part of the American continent are eminently fa- 
vorable to both horses and thistles. Nevertheless, at the period of the 
discovery of the Americas, neither the horse nor the thistles existed in 
these regions. 

In like manner, eighty years ago, neither horse, nor ox, nor sheep 
grazed the wide pastures of Australia; now they flourish, and run wild 
there. The same is true of i^ew Zealand. The little fresh-water muscle, 
the Dreissena, now so common in our canals, ha%iug swarmed over 
the whole country, is a recent importation from Eastern Europe. Con- 
ditions most favorable for its existence have existed for ages, and yet it 
only now reaches th(Mn artificially. However trite may be the assertion, 
therefore, that animals are fitted for their conditions, the converse propo- 
sition, that conditions imply the existence of creatures fitted to flourish 
in them, is manifestly untrue. 

Again, the existing distribution of animal life furnishes good grounds 
for exercising the greatest caution in reasoning from the population of 
one area, however vast, to that of another. A naturalist might be per- 
fectly acquainted with the indigenous animal inhabitants of all South 
America and Australia, and yet not know that there were such things in 
the world as the elephant, the rhinoceros, the hii)popotamus, the giraffe, 
the lion, the tiger, the horse, the ox, the sheep, or the goat, lie might 
be fully ac(]uainted with the population of all the enormous area which 
contains Australia and the Pacific Islands, and yet not only be ignorant 
of the animals just mentioned, but might never even have heard of bears, 
cats, monkeys, ruminants, sloths, or ant eaters. Finally, the exclusively 
African naturalist might fairly conclude from his own experience that 
great quadrupeds abound everywhere, and that there are no such things 
as kangaroos or opossums. 

The commonest facts in distribution, therefore, teach us that it is 
never safe to apply conclusions based upon the investigation of a limited 
area, however large, to the animal inhabitants of the rest of the world. 

There is yet another caution necessary in reasoning from the facts of 
distribution. It should be well borne in mind that the connection between 
a given form and the conditions in which that form flourishes is, in tlie 
great majority of cases, unknown to us. The laws of distribution are 
for the most part purely empirical; they are merely the expression of 
observed facts, of the reason of which we know nothing. If we observe 
species A always in a warm climate and species B always in a cold one, 
we ma3' conclude if we find specimens of A and B that the climates iji 



376 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEON*rOLOGY. 

which they flourished were respectively warm and cold. The force of 
the conclusion will depend upon the extent of our previous observation 
with regard to A and B. In practice, and within certain limits, such a 
conclusion is probably valid, but it is a very different matter if the ar- 
gument is put, as it more commonly is, thus: Species A and B are 
ibund respectively in hot and cold climates ; therefore species a, which 
is very lilvc A, though not the same, and species />, which is very like 
B, though distinct, indicate that the climates in whicli they flourished 
were respectively w^arm and cold. 

This argument, it is obvious, is only valid on the assumption that cer- 
tain amount of simihirity of form implies simihirity of necessary condi- 
tions; and the question immediately arises: How much similarity of 
form implies how much similarity of condition? 

In the present state of science no definite answer can be given to this 
(luestion. It is not understood why some genera are well-nigh universal 
in their distribution, others limited in their area. No comparison of the 
osteology of the arctic fox and of the jackal, of the pola» bear and of the 
black bear, of the musk ox and of the buifalo, would enable the ana- 
tomist to tell whicli of these species inhabits an arctic, and which a 
warmer climate. And on the other hand, though the existing species 
of hippopotamuses, rhinoceroses, and elephants are now exclusively in- 
habitants of warm climates, it is certain that very similar species 
formerly flourished in climates at least as cold as that of England, if not 
much colder. 

That these difliculties beset the enunciation of laws of distribution of 
general application, indicates what is tolerably certain on other grounds, 
that the existing arrangement of living beings on the surface of the globe 
is a complex result, the product of the interaction of a number of distinct 
causes. It is pretty clear, indeed, from what we know of life, that the 
presence or absence of any particular living being, on any given spot of 
the earth's surface, must depend on these conditions: 

1st. The mode and place of origin of that kind of living being. 

2d. Its powers of voluntary migration. 

3d. The extent to which it has undergone involuntary migration in 
consequence of changes in the distribution of sea and land, currents, t&c. 

4th. The range of climatal and other conditions under which alone it 
can exist. 

If we had these data for each species, its distribution would be a matter 
of calculation. But unfortunately they are not yet ascertained for any 
species whatsoever; nor is there, with regard to one or two, that agree- 
ment among men of science as to the i^robabilities of the case which 
would be desirable. 

Thus, respecting the first condition, no one has ever witnessed the 
origin of a species, nor is there any scientific evidence as to the mode or 
place of origin of any living thing. 

As to the hypothetical views, all the possil>le alternatives have their 
advocates. There are those who suppose that all living beings were 
created at once, in one spot, whence they have subsequently migrated ; 
but persons of sound intellect, acquainted with the facts, usually attacli 
themselves to one of two other views. On the one hand, some conceive 
that all living beings were created as we find them, and where we find 
them ; or that, at any rate, they are the descendants of a stock created 
within a distance not greater than can be overcome by the voluntary or 
involuntary migration of the species. Those who entertain this view 
usually suppose that a species once created can only be modified to a 
very limited extent. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 377 

On the other hand, their opponents maintain that there is no evidence 
that species were created as we find them, bnt that there is reason to 
believe that all living things are the result of the gradual modification 
of one or more primitive forms. 

Passion and the odium tJieologicum are too often allowed to enter into 
the discussion of these views. The triumph of either, except so far as 
it is the triuuiph of truth, is to the man of science, however, a matter 
of profound indifference; and in this spirit the arguments on both sides 
are thus shortly summed up : 

(/. Those who maintain the first view urge that all evidence tends to 
show that, in the ordinary course of things, living beings can only ^ake 
their origin from pre-existing living beings f so that, even if the indefi- 
nite modifiabilitj' of species were admitted, it would yet be necessary to 
suppose a direct creative interposition in order to account for the first 
germ of all ; and if we admit one direct interposition, it is said, there is 
no ditlficulty in admitting twenty or twenty thousand. To this it is 
replied, tliat, although there may be no greater ditiiculty in the one case 
than in the other, yet the assumption of creative acts, being in reality 
nothing more than a grandiloquent way of expressing our ignorance of 
the real connection of the phenomena, and our incompetence to conceive 
their origination, everj^ reduction in the number of such assumi)tious is 
a clear gain to science. 

It is furthermore urged that the direct creation of a species is an 
occurrence which not only has no scientific evidence in its favor, but is, 
in the nature of things, incapable of being supported by such evidence. 
For, suppose that in a glass of water, perfectly free from a trace of organic 
matter, a new species of fish were suddenly to make its appearance 
before the eyes of half a dozen naturalists, not one of them would believe, 
or would be justified in believing, that this was a direct creation out of 
nothing. Philosophically it would be illogical, and religiously it would 
be mere superstition to believe that which is in direct contradiction to 
our universal experience of the modes of action of the Creator. 

b. It is atiiirmed that, in some cases, animals and plants of the same 
species inhabit such completely separated regions that their origin, 
except by independent creation, within their present area is inconceiv- 
able. One of the strongest cases of this kind is that afforded by a 
marine crustacean, sometimes seen in our fish markets, the I^orway 
lobster, (Xephrops uorvegicus.J This animal is found on the shores of 
Norway and of the northern parts of the British islands, but not on our 
southern shores, nor on the Atlantic coast of France, Spain, or Portu- 
gal ; it reappears, however, at Nice in the Mediterranean, and abounds 
in the Adriatic about Venice. 

There appears to be no doul)t that the northern and the southern 
forms are specifically icfentical, and it is naturally asked, how could 
these isolated detachments of one species have migrated to such widely- 
sei)arated points without leaving some colonies on the only road which 
is open to them, viz., the western shores of Europe? And if their 
present distribution is not to be accounted for by migration, how is it 
explicable, except by supposing that the stock of each detachment was 
created where we find it ? 

Were the limits of the land and sea fixed and unchangeable, were 
there no such things as geological change, the problem might seem to 
be insoluble. But the instability of the land and the consequent inces- 
sant alteration of dry laud and deep sea at the very same points of the 
earth's surface, are the first lessons of the student of geology. This 
being the case, however, the argument at once loses its force;" for if by 
the submergence of Central Europe the Mediterranean and the North 



378 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 

Seas ever communicated, the Nephrops would readily have spread from 
Norway to the Adriatic, or vice versa ; and when the central mass of 
Europe rose again, the area of its distribution would be cut in two, and 
the northern and southern fragments only left. 

That this is the explanation of the apparent anomaly would be proved 
if Neplirops norvegicus were found fossil in any of the strata constituting 
the present land of Central Europe. So long as this is not the case it 
can only be regarded as hypothesis more probable than that of special 
creation at two points, and hence excluding the necessity of adopting 
the latter.* 

Many cases of distribution which have been supposed to be similar 
to that of Nephrops, and adduced as such by the advocates of many 
centers of creation, have been shown to be not really of the same nature, 
the widelj' separated forms not being in reality of identical species. 

c. The great question, however, upon which the two schools of natu- 
ralists divide is: Are species permanent? In other words, is it possible 
that any conditions operating through any amount of time upon any 
number of generations of a species A, shall give rise to a distinct spe- 
cies B ? 

In this, as in all other instances where thinking men entertain flatly 
contradictory opinions, the difficulty of coming to a mutual understand- 
ing appears to arise in a great measure from the want of a clear appre- 
hension of one another's meaning. In the present case it is probable 
that no two persons attach precisely the same signification to th6 word 
^' species." 

Most naturalists admit, indeed, {hat species have a distinct physiolo- 
gical character, viz: that the intermixture of two species will not pro- 
duce a fertile race, even if it gives rise to any progeny at all ; but, un- 
fortunately, this test is, from the nature of the case, practically inappli- 
cable, not only to the great majority of living animals and plants, but 
to all fossils. 

In practice, therefore, the naturalist is obliged to neglect the physio- 
logical characters of a species, and to confine himself entirel}^ to those 
which can be founded on form and structure. In this sense a species 
is the smallest group to which distinctive and invariable characters can 
be assigned. 

If, to use a seemingly paradoxical expression, all living beings were 
extinct — if they were represented by a limited number of fossils, and 
lay before us as things to be arranged and classified, the practical aj^pli- 
cation of this definition of species would have no difficulty. Sooner or 
later the whole organic world would be sorted out into the smallest 
parcels which could be characterized by a definition, and these would 
be " species." 

It is obvious that the task would be equiUly easy were all living 
beings absolutely immutable ; if every member of a species were exactly 
like its fellows, and if all progeny precisely resembled its parentage. 

If every dog, for example, were precisely like every other dog, and 
every puppy exactly similar to its parents, there could be no difficulty 
about defining the species dog, nor could there be any hesitation iu 
deciding whether a given animal belonged to the species dog or the 
species wolf. 

Unfortunately for scientific ease, no such immutable forms exist in 
nature. Like everything else in the world, a living being is a compro- 

* Species of the genus Neplirops have, curiously enousb, been found fossil in Central 
Franco (deiiartment of the Youue) at a point about half way between the northern and 
Bouthern area of N. norvegicus. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 379 

mise, a resultant of all the forces which act upon it; and though, like 
a planet, it tends with an immense force to move in a coarse of its own, 
yet, like that ])lanet, it is affected and j)erturbed more or less by all sur- 
rounding conditions. 

Hence, inasmuch as no two living beings can ever possibly have been 
subjected to precisely the same conditions, it is not wonderful that no 
two ever were, or ever will be, precisely alike; nor is it strange that 
species vary in i^roportion to the variety of the conditions to which they 
are exposed. 

It is needless to do more than refer to fiict^ which lie within every 
one's experience. No person is unaware of tlie dili'erence in the result 
produced when two seeds from the same plant, or two animals from the 
same brood, are exposed to widely different conditions in respect of light, 
warmth, and nourishment. 

In all such cases, however, the modification is limited in amount, and 
no modification of conditions will so mask the characters of the species 
as to prevent their recognition in either the stunted or tiie overgrown 
individual. For every individual, therefore, it can hardly be doubted 
that specific characters are licrmanent and immutable. Do what you 
will with a sheep dog puppy, you will not turn him into a wolf. 

It is obvious, therefore, that thus far the influence of conditions can 
be shown to have no appreciable effect in permanently nu)difying spe- 
cies; for, if the offspring of the modified individual were in all respects 
like its parent before the modification of the latter, it is clear that the 
whole influence of the modifying conditions would only bring 'c co the 
same point as the parent ; that the modification in any numlrcr o. gene- 
rations would go no further ; and that when the influence A these con- 
ditions was removed, the species would at once return to its primitive 
and typical form. Thus, suppose a pair of sheep-dog ;^'appies could be 
converted into greyhounds by a peculiar course of f^od and training ; 
for anything which has been yet stated they would produce puppies 
which woukl only become greyhounds under a like course, and if left 
to themselves, would resume tlieir pure and unchanged sheep-dog char- 
acter. 

Now, in nature this is not the case, by reason of the great fact of 
hereditary transmission. Every living being is, it has been said above, 
the resultant of all the forces which act upon it; the statement is in- 
complete unless we add : and which have acted upon its parents 

The forces in question are divisible into two classes : the one more 
powerful, intrinsic, impressed upon the germ, and causing that germ 
invariably to tend toward the production of a giveii form ; the other 
weaker, extrinsic, consisting of all those assisting, modifying, or even 
destructive influences which reside in the surrounding universe, and 
which are called external conditions. 

For every individual living thing, this distinction into intrinsic and 
extrinsic forces is absolute; but the law of hereditarv' transmission 
obliges us to admit that it may not be so for a series of generations. 
For liereditary transmission means simply, that a modification under- 
gone by a parent more or less affects its otfspring — the offspring tending 
to reproduce that modification. Thus in the imaginary instance given 
above, the offspring of the modified sheep-dog, even if placed in entirely 
indiflerent conditions, would have a tendency to assume greyhound char- 
acters. The intrinsic force of that germ, its tendencies, would be thus 
far modified by the influence exerted by external conditions on its parent. 
The operation of an extrinsic force on one generation may become in the 
next an intrinsic force. 



380 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 



Bat it is obvious that if once the influence of hereditary transmission 
in modifying the tendencies of the germ (and no one denies it) be ad- 
mitted, it is very difficult to say where the modification of a given species 
shall stop. 

Here, therefore, is the battle ground of those who admit and those 
who deny the indefinite modifiability of species. On the one side are 
adduced the two indubitable facts, firstly, that certain unquestionable 
modifications of one and the same species, such as the dog, are, as 
Cuvier says, more difterent than any wild species of the same natural 
genus; secondly, that the admission of indefiaite modifiability reduces 
tlie production of species to the ordinary course of nature, and accounts 
equally well for all the phenomena with any other hypothesis. 

On the other side are the equally unquestionable truths that specific 
characters are retained uiuler even extreme modifying influences with 
great tenacity, and that artificially produced modiflcations tend, if left 
to themselves, to return, more or less nearly, to their primitiv^e specific 
character. It may be doubted, however, if these proi>ositions are really 
inconsistent with the doctrine of indefinite modifiability. 

At present the evidence before the naturalist can hardly justify Jiim 
in declaring his absolute adhesion to either view, but according as he 
inclines one way or the other, so will it be probable that his views as to 
the limits of species will vary. He who leans to the hypothesis of indefi- 
nite modifiability will tend to neglect, and he who inclines to that of 
the fixity of species will tend to exaggerate, minute ditterences. As the 
case now stands, those who wish to adhere to the golden mean must put 
their trust in common sense, a perception of the needs of science, and 
that sort of tact which can lie gained only by incessant practical work- 
ing at species.* 

4. So much for those laws of natural history which help us to under- 
stand what the various forms of living beings are, and how they vary. 
The next most important question is, do animals and plants, as they die, 
perish and leave no trace behind, or what becomes of them? 

The answer to this question must be ditt'erent according to the par- 
ticular kind of animal or plant to which reference is made. The fungus, 
which springs up in a night, dies, decays, and is swept away as rapidly ; 
and the soft marine jelly-fish or worm may leave no more permanent 
traces of its existence. Carnivorous and herbivorous animals, again, 
destroy and eflace all recognizable signs of the existence of multitudes 
even of those living beings which are, physically and chemically, better 
(pialitied to endure. Again, though it be a fact that the great majorit;\- 
of both animals and plants are provided with parts sufficiently hard and 
indestructible to resist the ordinary causes of decay for a very consider- 
able time, nevertheless exposure to damp and change of temperature in 
the case of the remains of land animals, and the incessant wear and tear 
of watery action among aquatic creatures, would sooner or later destroy, 
or so deface as to render unrecognizable, the trunks of the hardest 
wooded trees and the most solid bones and shells ; and this would take 
place in a space of time which, however long to us, is a very brief period, 
geologically speaking, were it not for the very sim|)le but efficient 
preservative agencies which are brought into play by the very same 
causes. 

The hard parts of terrestrial animals and the remains of land plants 
are, indeed, to a great extent destroyed by their exposure to the coudi- 

* It should be noted that these pa^es Avere written before the appearance of Mr. 
Darwin's book on the " Origin of Species," a work which has efiected a revolution iu 
biological speculation. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 381 

tions enumerated above; but it occasionally happens that accidental 
floods sweep them away into low grounds, hollows, or caves, where they 
rest and become covered up with the hue mud deposited as the waters 
subside; or livini^ animals may be swallowed uj) in peat-mosses and in 
swamps; or their remains may be exposed to the action of springs 
highly charged with calcareous matter, and thus become coated with 
earhonate ot lime; or the wind may envelop them ia drift sand ; and iu 
all these instances they will be more or less effectually protected from 
further chnnge. 

The imbedding and preservation of the exuvia of those marine ani- 
mals and plants which are not destroyed by the carnivorous and herb- 
ivorous races, on the other hand, is hardly a matter of chance, but must 
always inevitably take jdace. The sea is incessantly wearing away the 
shores against which it beats, and the shallow grounds over which its 
currents and tides race, undermining and cutting them away, and grind- 
ing the fragments down by their mutual friction into boulders, shingles, 
pebbles, sand, and mud. It then carries away the finer nmterials, and 
spreads them over the deeper and quieter portions of its bed, whei-e 
they are arranged in successive layers, which gradually rise into banks 
of mud and sand. Brooks and streams, constantly bringing down sim- 
ilar materials from the higher grounds inland, add to these deposits, or 
form similar ones peculiar to themselves, thus giving rise to the " deltas" 
and the " bars" found at the mouths of most rivers. In all the 
quieter and not too deep parts of the sea bed, therefore, it is as if a con- 
stant though very slow rain of fine earthly particles were going on, and 
consequently every dead shell, every undestroyed bone, which is left on 
the bottom, is sooner or later covered up and i)rotected from further 
destruction. Just as the showers of fine ashes which fell from Vesuvius 
seventeen centuries ago so covered up and protected the remains of 
Herculaneum and Pompeii, that even now the smallest relics of lloman 
daily life are preserved for our inspection, so may the muddy deposit 
now taking place over a large extent of the j) resent sea bottom preserve, 
for the inspection of future generations, the remains of the creatures at 
present living and dying there. 

For the sake of clearness it has been provisionally assumed that, iu 
all these instances, the organic bodies have been preserved by being 
enveloped in masses of inorganic matter ; that the mud which forms the 
bottom of seas and rivers is, in all cases, pulverized ro(!k brought from 
other localities. It is very rare, however, to find mud purely of this 
character, and there are some remarkable accumulations at present 
taking place, of which ev^ery particle is derived from organisms which 
have once lived, the apparent mud, in which the large organisms are 
imbedded, being nothing but a mass of shells of minuter forms inter- 
mingled with fragments of larger ones. 

5. JMost important consequences How from a recognition of the fact 
that the modes of jjreservation of the renmins of animals and plants 
last described far outweigh every other iu importance and extent. This 
may be made more clear by again using the instance of Ponq)eii and 
Hercuhmeum as an illusti'ation. Suppose that long after these cities 
were buried others had been built over them by some of the many bar- 
bariaii iuvaders of Italy, during tlie decline of the empire, and that 
after a while Vesuvius had entombed these under another shower of 
ashes; and that these had, after a few hun<lred years of existence, un- 
dergone a like fate, so that the Avhole of this part of Italy was buried' 
under volcanic accumulations, on the surface of which flourished the 
villages and vineyards of a race ignorant of the existence of a previous 



382 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 

coiulition of things. And now suppose a well to be sunk, or an excava- 
tion made for some purpose or other, down to the original foundation 
of Pompeii ; the digger would pass througli three layers of volcanic 
accumulations, separating the foundations of as many cities, diflering 
in the style of their architecture, in their sculpture, thc'ir paintings, and 
their utensils, and clearly showing that they belonged to three separate 
nations. It would be quite clear, again, to the excavator, that the high- 
est city must be the latest and last built, the lowest the earliest ; and he 
could arrive at no other conclusion than that three several races had 
flourished and perished, one after another, on this very spot in ancient 
times. For how great a space of time each race had remained, and 
what was the absolute antiquity of any one, or of the whole, he would 
be unable to say ; but their relative antiquity — the chronology of the 
series, would be plainly indicated by the order of their superposition. 

Exactly the same reasoning is applicable to the beds of mud and 
sand which are now accumulating and gradually hardening into rock at 
the bottom of our present seas. Those layers which are at present being 
deposited, necessarily lie above those which were formed in the same 
locality a year ago ; and these, above those of the preceding year ; 
while, on the other hand, they will be covered up by deposits of fViture 
years. Therefore, it follows, that if ever the present sea beds are up- 
heaved, so that their composition may be examined, the future observer 
will find the beds containing the remains of marine animals and plants 
superimposed upon one another, in precisely the same order as they are 
now being formed, the oldest at the bottom, the youngest at the top; he 
will be furnished by their order of superposition with an accurate rela- 
tive chvonology of the changes which are now taking jjlace ; but without 
the introduction of other considerations, he will, of course, be unable 
to assign the absolute period at which any bed was deposited, or the 
time occupied in the formation of the whole. 

The antiquarian called upon to estimate the probable absolute age of 
the oldest of the cities in the imaginary case stated above, would be 
guided by what he knew of the time required to build cities ; by his- 
torical evidence as to the conditions under which nations replace and 
extirpate one another; and by physical considerations based upon a 
knowledge of the mode and rate of the formation of volcanic accumula- 
tions of a given thickness ; but even then, he would, probably, prefer to 
state the minimum rather than the maximum antiquity. And so the 
future naturalist, should he have no other light than the strata now 
forming themselves afford, can only be guided, in his estimate of their 
antiquity and of the period occupied in their formation, by his knowl- 
edge of the average duration of animal life, and of the rate at which 
sediment of a given thickness can be de])osited. He may as well as- 
sume the remains before his eyes to be accidental " sports of nature" 
at once, as speculate upon any other foundation. 

Just as our only means of comprehending the civil history of the 
past is to apply to ancient times those principles which a careful study 
of the actions and motives of our contemporaries leads us to believe are 
of universal application to mankind, so, in endeavoring to interpret 
the moiuiments of the ancient world of geology, we must be guided by 
Avhat we know of the present creation ; and thus having learned what 
li\ing creatures now exist, how they are constructed, and how their re- 
mains are becoming imbedded in the rocks now forming, we arc ready 
to enter upon the inquiry as to what forms of life animated the ancient 
worlds, how they were constructed, and how their remains have heev 
handed down from those remote ages. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 383 

G. There arc yet one or two collateral points wliicb require discussion. 
Supposing tliat tlie present bed of the ocean were upheaved and be- 
came exposed to view, so that we could examine the organic contents of 
all the strata of mud and sand which have accumulated and hardened 
into stone for the last four or five thousand years, ought we to expect to 
find, at any one spot, a complete and unbroken series of the remains of 
all the creatures that have ever lived there 1 Assuredly not. In the 
first place, it has already been explained that there are many animals 
entirely devoid of parts sufficiently hard to be i)reservable, and of them 
every trace would have disappeared. It is important to remark that a 
naturalist who should have become acquainted with the present animal 
creation only in this way, would be ignorant of the existence of many 
genera and families, of some orders, and even of one or two entire 
classes; but no sub-kingdom would be without abundant representa- 
tives, and, therefore, he would be perfectly acquainted with all the great 
types of organization at present existing. There Avould necessarily b& 
defects in his knowledge, but these defects would by no means interfere 
with his obtaining a very clear and just, though not complete, idea of 
the present state of things. 

But there are other and more formidable sources of imperfection in 
our palaeontological knowledge. Not only does the very nature of some 
animals present an insuperable bar to the preservation of a complete 
record of organic life in the rocks contemporaneously formed, but it is, 
to saj' the least, excessively improbable that a complete series of even 
those organic bodies which are preservable should be found at any one 
spot. For modern research teaches that the level of the land is con- 
stantly changing ; slowly but surely, some conntries are rising, while 
others are becoming depressed ; and there is good evidence that, in some 
parts of the world, several alternative movements of elevation and de- 
l^ression have taken place within a comparatively modern period. IS'ow, 
whenever the bottom of the sea becomes dry land, or the dry land sinks 
to the bottom of the sea, there must obviously be an interruption in the 
series of living inhabitants, aquatic forms replacing terrestrial, or vice 
versa. Thus, should the sea bottom be raised into dry land, and then 
depressed again so as to be covered with fresh de])osits, the whole mass, 
when subsequently elevated and exposed to view, will exhibit a break 
in the series of marine organic remains, corresi>onding in magnitude 
and importance with the interval during which the sea bed remained in 
the condition of dry land. It is probable that there is not a single spot 
on the earth's surface which has not been thus subjected to many altera- 
tions of elevation and depression, and, hence, we may safely infer that 
no single series of superimposed strata can contain a complete series of 
even those forms of past life which have flourished in that one region. 

But, if this be true of those marine animals whose chances of preser- 
vation are greatest, whose hard parts contain so little animal matter as 
to be not worth attack on the part of predacious organisms, which are 
sufficiently dense to resist the destructive agencies to which they must 
almost necessarily l)e exposed before they are protected by sediment, 
and whose locomotive powers are insufficient to enable them to escape 
by migration the imminent fate threatened, by changes of level, how 
much more fortuitous nuist be the preservation of those remains which, 
like the bones of the marine Verfebrata, contain much animal matter, 
and are comparatively soft, or which belong to entirely terrestrial crea- 
tures. And, in fact, it is among the rarest of occurrences to find the 
bones of a dead wild quadruped, or bird ; or to dredge up from the sea 
bottom a relic of a fish or of a porpoise, abundant as these animals are 
in our seas. 



584 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 

We turn to tlie exauiiuation of the collection of fossil remains, then, 
bearing this truth clearly in our minds, that at best it contains only an 
imperfect record of the past ; that it is a history, some of whose leaves 
are certainly torn out — we know not how many or how few — though, 
judging by the present condition of things, we surmise that their teach- 
ings would not contradict any duly limited deduction from the informa 
lion we derive from other sources. 

III. — ApPLIOATION of natural HISTORY TO TlIE ELUCIDATION OF 
FOSSILS, OR "PALAEONTOLOGY." 

1. An iiDportant question meets us on the threshold, as it met those 
who first directed their attention to fossils: How do we know that these 
curiously-formed bodies, often to all appearance of one substance with 
the rock in which they are imbedded, really are the remains of creatures 
Avhich have lived ? How do we know that they are not what the ancients 
supposed them to be, Zj/sws nahira', sports and freaks of inorganic nature, 
produced in blind imitation of living bodies, just as the hoarfrost on the 
Avindow i)anes simulates the foliage of a tree! 

We know that fossils are the remains of animals and plants by pre- 
cisely the same common-sense reasoning as that which led Eobinson 
Crusoe, seeing the impression of a human foot on the sand, to conclude 
that a man had been there. The foot mark might by possibility have 
been an accident, a liisns riaturw, but pending the iiroof that it was so 
the precautions of the shipwrecked mariner exhibited the soundness of 
his judgment. We cannot experimentally prove that fossils are truly the 
remains of dead animals and plants any more than we can expenmentally 
demonstrate that the utensils recently brought home from the arctic re- 
gions really belonged to the crew of the "Erebus" and "Terror;" but all the 
facts, the condition in which the things were found, the marks upon them, 
agree with this hypothesis, and none oppose it. On like grounds, our be- 
lief that fossils are the remains of beings which once lived has acquired 
tirm hold and remains unshaken; the conditions under which they are 
found, and all their marks, agree with the hypothesis; while increasing 
knowledge, so far from shaking, is incessantly, and in very wonderful 
ways, strengthening the foundations of this as of every truth. 

2. The extent to which it enables us to reason to the unknown is com- 
monly, and in a great measure justly, regarded as one of the best tests of 
the truth or falsehood of a scientific theory, and none has evermore bril- 
liantly stood the application of this test than that now referred to. For 
if fossils really are the remains of living beings we may reasonably ex- 
pect, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the animals and 
plants of which they are the exuvia came under the operation of the same 
great law of the invariable correlation of organic i^eculiarities, which has 
been shown above to be manifested in the present creation, and it might 
be fairly anticipated that the same logical process which enables us to 
reason from the structure of the hair of a recent animal to its whole li-ame, 
or from the peculiarities of the wood of an existing plant to its fruit, and 
the minor particulars of its embryology would be equally available when 
applied to the extinct inhabitants of the world. 

The magnificent researches of Cuvier first practically demonstrated 
the justice of these surmises, and showed that the laws of correlation of 
parts deduced from the observation of living animals hold good to a won- 
derful extent among the extinct forms; so that to one as thoroughly 
acquainted as he was with the details of animal organization, an isolated 
fragment of a fossil bone, or an odd tooth, was, frequently, sufficient to 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 385 

iiidieate tbe g-eneral affinities of tlie animal to wiiieli it belonged; and to 
justify luui in making those wonderful predictions of what woukl bo the 
nature of its other parts, which were so often to bo verified in the course 
of future investigations. 

One of the most remarkable examples of such successful prediction is 
that which Cuvier himself mentions as "a very singular monument of 
the force of zoological laws, and of the use which maybe made of them." 
From the famous gypsum quarries which furnished so many occasions 
for the display of his genius and knowledge a block was brought con- 
taining the imperfect remains of the skeleton of a small animal; the 
shape of the lower jaw and the characters of the teeth were such as are 
alone known to exist in the order of marsupial animals, of which the 
opossum and the kangaroo are the most familiar examples. But all 
known MarsKpialia possess two remarkable appendages to tlie "pelvis" 
or bony girdle of the hips, which are termed the "marsui)ial bones," be- 
cause they are connected with the pouch in the female. Here was a law 
of invariable correlation of anatomical peculiarities (certain teeth and 
certain forms of jaw being always associated with the presence of these 
bones) of universal application to living animals; would the law hold i 
good for the fossil ? Cuvier was so confident that it would, that he in- 
vited some friends to witness the picking- away of the stone from the 
region where he believed the marsupial bones woukl be found, and the 
result verified his expectation, for the bones were discovered just in that, 
very situation. 

3. It will be easily understood, however, that the whole of this train, 
of reasoning is only valid on the assumption that a certain uniformity 
■Las prevailed in organic nature; that the structures which vre find in- 
variably' associated now were invariably associated in earlier times; that, 
in short, the great laws Avhich are expressed by our conceptions of com- 
mon plans have always remained the same. We know of no reason, save 
the invariable occurrence of the co-existence, v,'hy a jieculiar form of jaw 
shoidd always be accompanied by the existence of marsupial bones; and 
just as certain animals now exist in which the marsupial bones are 
IH'esent, while the peculiar structure of jaw is absent, so it is quite within 
the limits of possibility- that, at an earlier period of the earth's history, 
animals might have existed possessing the peculiar jaw, but deprived of 
the marsupial bones. Of course, in this case Cuvier's reasoning would 
not have been conclusive, and his prophecy might not have bcien verified. 
In point of fact it would not be safe in all cases to regard the laws of 
invariable anatomical correlation, deduced from the observation of the 
existing animal world, as applicable, without reservation, to the members, 
of extinct faunas. Xo generalization from the structure of existing ani- 
mals could be better established than that biconcave vertebra? are found, , 
throughout the spinal column, only in fishes and perennibranchiate 
amphibia, or hollow bones of a certain form are characteristic of birds,. 
and yet Ave should be led into most erroneous conclusions by reasoning 
without hesitation from these data, to the structure and aflinities of the- 
animals to which certain vertebrae and certain bird-like bones found in; 
the mesozoic strata belong. In fact, while experience shows, with a con- 
stantly increasing weight of proof, that the great laws of the construction' 
of animals have been identical throughout all recorded time, and while, 
therefore, when we possess any clear indication that a fossil animal 
belongs to any one of the great groups, we may safely predict that it 
will exhibit all the othar characteristic peculiarities of that group; we 
must be careful to remember that in many of the smaller groups combi- 
nations of organic peculiarities have existed of a very ditferent nature' 
2o S 



386 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 



from those wliicli now obtain; and we mnst, therefore, be content to 
regard many of the established generalizations as only approximatively 
correct. 

As a general rule, however, it is very true that the more we learn of 
the world of fossils, the more clearly does the conviction force itself 
upon our minds, that from the earliest times of which we possess a rec- 
ord to the present, no change has taken i^lace in the general scheme of 
the organic world. There are perhaps 15,000 established species of 
extinct animals, but among them there is not one whose plan of con- 
struction difl'ers so far from any now known, as to require the estab- 
lishment of even a new class for its reception. Diiferent naturalists will 
estimate the number of classes of animals now living variously ; but 
they may be safely assumed to be at least tive-and-twenty distinct mod- 
ilications of the live great primitive common plans ; and yet so com- 
paratively slight has been the change since the earliest times, that the 
NA'hole extinct world will not supply us with a six-aud-twentieth modifi- 
cation. If we descend to the next smaller divisions, to the orders, the 
same fact becomes apparent ; at the very lowest estimate there are 
not fewer than between a hundred and thirty and a hundred and forty 
orders of animals, and out of these, at the most, not more than fourteen 
or fifteen are represented only by extinct forms ; that is to say, in the 
whole range of geological series not more than ten or twelve per cent, 
of ordinal tyi)es, different from those which now exist, having come into 
being.* 

4. The history told by the records of the organic world is in perfect 
harmony with that which is written on the face of inorganic nature. 
Tlie thickness of the crust of the earth, down to the greatest depths to 
which man has been enabled to penetrate, is to a great extent composed 
of strata of rock, the physical and chemical peculiarities of which 
evince their identity with the products of the present oi)erations of 
nature. Beds of conglomerate containing round pebbles demonstrate 
that the sea beat against and broke up its rocky boundaries then as 
now, rounding and polishing the fragments by incessant friction as it 
wears them on any modern shingle beach ; fine-grained limestones and 
sandstones show that, then as now, the finer products of their attrition 
were carried away and deposited, in the form of beds of mud, upon the 
deeper and (]uieter parts of the sea bottom. Vast and frequent inter- 
ruptions in the regular series of l)ed prove that, in ancient times as at 
present, tlie solid crust oscillated, so that what was dry land became 
covered by the sea, and what was sea bottom remained for long ages 
dry land. And, finally, in like manner as we know that, within the 
period of which man is cognizant, all these changes have gone on in an 
excessively slow and gradual manner, rapid and convulsive action being 
altogether exceptional, so we have the clearest proof that the time repre- 
sented by the vast succession of ancient strata is enormous and almost 
inconceivable, and that gradual and regular change was, then as now, 
the rule, catastrophe and convulsion the exception. Nevertheless, as 
in the ancient organic world we have found that there is a certain amount 
of departure from what might be called the by-laws of the present cre- 
ation, so it is quite possible that, in the physical world of past times, 
changes may have now and then taken place with a rapidity and a 
violence to which the minute experience of man affords no parallel. An 
Ichthi/osaurus is, in one sense, a sort of animal catastrophe, and as we 
are all well assured of the occurrence of this one wide deviation from 

* The number of orders is liero purposely taken at an extreme minimum ; while the 
highest possible value is given to the extinct groups. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 387 

existing manifestations of the vital forces, so we must not be too sure 
that corresponding departures from the usuaL order of the physical 
^yorld have not occurred in past times. 

The same analogies which demand this caution, however, fully justify 
us in concluding that throughout all geological time the great ))h3sical 
forces have obeyed similar laws. The gravitation of matter, its hard- 
ness, the effects of heat and of chemical affinity upon it, have been the 
same, we have every reason to believe, from the Cambrian age to the 
present, and, as a consequence, it cannot be doubted that the vital 
actions of the trilobites were governed by the same physiological laws 
as those by which we now live and move and have our being. For, 
leaving the lihenomena of consciousness out of the question, physiology 
is but an application of j^hysics and chemistry. 

5. Xow, just as the restorationsoftlie palaeontologist imply his confi- 
dence in the uniformity of the great laws of morphology throughout all 
time, so the chronology of geology, the basis of the whole science, rests 
upon a like assumption with reg(ird to the general uniformity of the 
laws of physics and chemistry. It would be ridiculous to argue from 
the superposition of ancient beds, unless we assumed that their con- 
stituent particles gravitated in the same way then as now ; the identity 
of mineral character of two beds could prove nothing, without the as- 
sumption that the laws governing chemical changes have always been 
the same ; and, in like manner, we can reason on the general habits of 
ancient living beings only on the assumption that the great laws of 
physiology were the same then as now. No half measures will avail ; 
we must be prepared either to assume the general uniformity of ancient 
and modern action, or we must give up the i)roblem, for no other hy- 
pothesis affords the least criterion of truth, or the slightest check upon 
the play of the imagination. But if we may argue from like effects to 
like causes, then geological chronology is as much a matter of science, 
and capable of being tested as thoroughly, as any other case of succes- 
sion. 

The arguments on which these chronological considerations are 
founded are simple and intelligible enough. It has been already proved 
that, in the present state of things, the lowest of any series of beds which 
have been deposited from water is of necessity the oldest. If, then, 
the great majority of the ancient strata have also been deposited from 
water, if they are nothing but the hardened muddy beds of ancient seas 
and lakes, (a fact of which there is abundant evidence,) then the same 
law necessarily applies to them — the lowest stratum is the oldest, and 
the superjacent beds have all been deposited during a subsequent period. 
The argument applies with equal force to the whole crust of the earth, 
and if we could tell how much time was required for the formation of 
each bed, we should, by adding all the periods together, arrive at the 
smallest possible interval which can have elapsed since the deposition 
of the oldest bed. We have no data sufficient to enable us to say, with 
any approximation to accurac}*, how long it takes to deposit sufficient 
mud or sand to form, when hardened, a layer of rock two feet thick ; 
but we are quite safe in .saying that neither lake nor sea ever deposited 
that amount upon its bed in the course of a year.* Kow the total 
measured thickness of ancient strata, deposited either from freslt or 
salt water, is not less than 00,000 feet, (or about twelve miles,) so that, 

* Exceptional ileiJosits, as, for instance, by earthquake floods, are here left out of 
consideration, as they can have liad but little inllueuce on the sum total of the aqueous 
formations. The total thickness of the latter here a.ssumed is midway between the 
estimates of Professor Philliiis and Sir C. Lyell. 



388 PEINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PALAEONTOLOGY. 

even assuming them to have been deposited, without interruption, at a 
rate faster than any sea or lake deposits mud now-a-days, we slioidd 
still require a period six times as long as that of which any human 
record exists, for their formatiou. But, in truth, when we take into 
account the probably immensely greater time required for the formation 
of two feet of sedimentary deposit, the vast amount of rock which has 
been formed and subsequently swept away hy denudation, so that it is 
not reckoned in estimating- this total thickness of the strata, and the 
possibility that nmsses of strata, which will requii*e interpolation in the 
general series, lie hidden from our view in parts of the world which 
have not yet been examined, or under the present bed of the sea, the 
most sober calculator will hardly venture to limit the factor by which 
even a period of thirty thousand years should be multiplied to give the 
whole period recorded by the monuments of geology. 

The conclusions here drawn from the facts of physical geology are in 
perfect unison with the chronological indications afforded by fossils. 
Beds many feet in thickness, composed of the remains of marine ani- 
mals, their shells unbroken and uudistnrbed, and sometimes covered 
with parasitic growths, (just like recent dead shells which remain long 
undisturbed at the bottom of the ocean,) are constantly met with. Here 
and there are thick sti-ata, composed of nothing but the remains ot 
microscopic plants and animals, which must have required a vast time 
for their aggregation ; elsewhere, the vestiges of huge coral reefs testify 
that innumerable generations of their slowly-growing fabricators must 
have lived and died undisturbed, in one locality; and, in some places, 
enorntous accumulations of the bones of large vertebrata, each individ- 
ual of which must have required many years to attain its full growth, 
tell the same tale. 

The two great astronomical truths to which the general mind has 
always found the greatest difficulty in assenting are, first, the doctrine 
that the seemingly fixed earth moves, while the apparently moving sun 
stands still ; secondly, that the earth is but a i^article, and the diameter 
of the system to which it belongs insignificant when compared with the 
vast space which separates one of the greater heavenly bodies from 
another. Geology presents two corresjionding truths, as hard to believe 
and yet as well founded. The first is, that the seemingly fixed land is 
subject to incessant oscillations, while the sea, so mobile on the small 
scale, remains i]i reality comparatively unchanged. The other is, that 
our historical period, even if we include the widest limit to which tra- 
dition woidd carry the records of our race, is but an insignificant portion 
of the countless ages which have elapsed since the animals, the remains 
3f which are exposed to view in the Lower Silurian cases of this collec- 
tion, lived and died, and were buried in the oozy bed of the ocean of 
that period. 

We are, therefore, compelled to believe that a general uniformity has 
prevailed in the operations of physical and vital nature throughout all 
time of which we haveany record ; but just as the generally uniform and 
regular movement of the celestial bodies is quite consistent with minor 
and subordinate xierturbations, so the proved uniformity of action of 
the causes in operation in the physical world by no means excludes the 
l)ossibility of occasional sudden and immense changes, or "catastrophes," 
as they have been called; nor does the equally evident general uniformity 
of i>lan predominant throughout the ancient fauna and flora in any way 
interfere with very great and imj^ortant deviations from those which 
now exist. 



REMARKS ON THE "CARA GIGANTESCA" OF YZAMAL IN YUCATAN, 



By Dr. ARxnun Sciiott. 



Of the many remarkable relics of ancient Maya civilization, the little 
town of Yzamal, situated about tliirty miles east of Merida, has a con- 
siderable share. One of the most vakiable, because mythographically 
most eloquent, is the so-called "C'rtra Gigantcsca,''^ (gigantic face,) acolos 
sal work in stucco on the east side of a solidly built stone dam, running' 
north and south between various sacred mounds, or " kues," as the 
Mayas call them, and of which the historians of the Spanish contiuests 
mention ten or eleven as in existence almost intact, shortly after the 
subjugation of the peninsula. 

Stephens, in his ^^ Incidents of Travel in Yucatan,'" also speaks of 
the curious face on the wall, which he had visited in the courtyard of 
SeQora IMendez. This author, however, devoted only a few cursory re- 
marks, together with an equally unsatisfactory illustration, to a subject 
which well deserves the close attention of the antiquarian. 

There is nothing in the features of the image which should be desig- 
nated as stern and Jiarsh, as Mr. Stephens has done, for the only strange 
feeling this face may produce is caused by the colossal scale in which 
the whole work is i)rqiected. Otherwise the face, with its oblong, oval 
outline, exhibits what the Spanish define as a " cara angosta," (narrow 
face,) in opposition to the broad, square type of the common Indian of 
the land. The features are rather feminine, which is only a generally 
recognized peculiarity of the American aborigines. The whole face ex- 
hibits a very remarkable regularity and conforms strictly to the univer- 
sally accepted principles of beauty, which have been handed down to 
the art of the present day by tlie masters of ancient Greece. A verti- 
cal line drawn over the forehead, nose, and chin, divides itself naturally 
into three equal parts, each of which corresponds exactly to the frontal, 
nasal, and maxillary regions. The opened mouth, bringing the upper 
teeth almost into full view, together with the rounded nostrils and the 
slightly elevated tip of the nose, impart to the whole a singular expres- 
sion, which is certainly not accidental, but agrees strictly with the sup- 
posed purpose for which this face was made, and which will be more 
manifest by the following remarks. 

The outline of the face or head varies from the Greek oval by ap- 
proaching nearer to a rounded oblong, for the cheek and jawbones 
are rather more dexeloped than the rules of classic beauty would admit. 
The head-dress in the shape of a mitre is encircled just above the fore- 
head by a band, which is fastened in front by a triple locket or tassel. 
A singular deviation from nature is exhibited by the ears, which are 
made to project forward. Under the chin three flat stone plates pro- 
ject, while the space on both sides of the head is tilled uj) with numer- 
ous arabescpie curves of various kinds. The whole of this remarkable 
l)iece of stucco work occupies a space of about ten feet square. 

There is little doubt but that this work in its time must have served 
as a sort of altar, upon which the offerings of burnt incense were de- 



390 THE "CARA GIGANTESCA" OF YZAMAL IN YUCATAN. 

posited accompanied by the prayers of the devotees. Mr. Stephens 
also held this opinion not only on the strength of certain popular tra- 
ditions, but by virtue of some direct historical accounts of the Mayas. 
The blackened and charred marks on the three stone plates below seem 
to corroborate this assertion. Whether the image was once intended 
to represent a deity or demigod cannot now be proved to a certainty, 
but its nature can reasonably be guessed at, so that it may properly be 
taken as a representation of Ytzamatul himself, who was the semi-divine 
founder and legislator of the ancient realm of Ytzmal, now Yzamal. In 
order to enable the reader to judge for himself, an extract from the 
early history of the Maya confederation in Yucatan may be acceptable. 

After the fall of the lirst Maya empire during the eighth century of 
our era, w^hen Chicheu Itza, the then center of civilization, lost her 
prestige as the principal city, Ytzmal became the foremost place in the 
country. Here ruled Ytzamatul, the son of the true, living God, as he 
was believed to have been. None ever knew whence he had come, for 
whenever asked as to his origin he invariably answered: ^^Ytzen caan, 
Ytzen muyal,'^ whiiih means, '-'' I am the dew of heaven^ the substance of 
the clouds,''^ It is, perhaps, also not improbable that this king's name 
was more a title than a real name, for in the Maya idiom it em- 
bodies a whole sentence within a single word, the meaning of which 
is, "i/e icho receives and possesses the graceP Be this as it may, 
this name makes it obvious that its royal bearer must have been con- 
sidered by his peo])le as a semi-divine mediator between heaven and 
earth, an idea by no means novel in the history of human civilization. 
The real existence of such a personage is, in a strictly historical sense, of 
little importance, but is noteworthy for the ethnographer, that the tradi- 
tional divine or semi-divine nature of the rulers and founders of empires 
is such a constant occurrence in semi-historical ages, as to be invariably 
found m some form at the commencement of the history of every nation. 

Ytzamatul, with his superior nature, according to jMaya traditions, 
did not fail to enjoy the unbounded lo^'e and equally profound respect 
of the nation over wliose destinies he presided. His wisdom as a states- 
man and legislator, as well as his never failing justice as dispenser of 
the laws, gained for him so much the admiration of every one of his sub- 
jects, that after his death the honor of an apotheosis was accorded to 
him ; and in order to do full justice to his memory, and to give tangible 
proof of the general veneration for the departed chief, his royal body 
was divided into various portions, over each of which a sejxilchral tem- 
l)le was erected. These sanctuaries soon became converted into so many 
places of worship, where the pious could offer their prayers and suppli- 
cations. The names of some of these temples, each crowning at that 
time an artificial mound called " kues," have been preserved by several 
of the Spanish historians. Among them one appears which was called 
" Kinich Kakmo,''^ that is, " iSim unth the face ;" another, " Kahul^'''' which 
means, " The icorldmj (creating) hand.'''' 

Tradition has it that iu both these temples sacred fires and sepulchral 
lamps were burning day and night. Oracles were also pronounced there, 
and the faithful brought thither their sick and dead, which in many in- 
stances became restored to health and life again by the miraculous in- 
tercession of Y^tzamatul's sacred meuior3\ These places were said to 
have become thus famous and renowned, not only throughout the whole 
of the peninsula, but also far beyond its limits, whence a contiutious 
pilgrimage was kept up. Hundreds and thousands joined iu pious pro- 
cessions from Cuba, Hayti, and Jamaica, as well as from the interior of 
Guatemala, Tabasco, and Chiai)as. In order to facilitate such religious 



THE "CAKA GIGANTESCA" OF YZAMAL IN YUCATAN. 391 

national intercourse, terraced and paved liigliways were constructed 
leading" out from Yzaiual toward the four cardinal points. Of these 
colossal structures, many remnants can still be seen in various parts of 
the country, while other portions of them are lying hidden in the ahnost 
impenetrable woods and wilds, covering at present the main part of the 
surface of the country. In the very vicinity of Yzamal a considerable 
piece of such an ancient road can be examined within the limits of a 
village called "Qiticum,"* (pronounced Tziticum,) distant two Spanish 
leagues west of Yzamal. 

Among the details of our present relic, the head-dress, a mitre in form 
of an obtuse cone, with its symbolic adornments, at once indicates the 
sublime dignity of a sovereign, or, at least, of the supreme dispenser of 
the nation's laws. The cincture encircling it, together with its triple 
locket or tassel in front, is the emblem of universal i^ower and divine 
perfection, such as was always and invariably attributed to a sovereign 
before monarchism had passed its zenith of popular belief. According 
to the ideas of the ancient nations of this continent, as well as of those 
of the eastern hemisphere, a single band around the forehead was the 
badge of a nation's ruler. The mighty kings of ancient Persia, for in- 
stance, wore nothing else, and it was only in after times that from such 
a simple adornment the golden ring, the diadem, or crown, originated. 
Among the numerals the sacred three has ever been considered the mark 
of perfection, and was therefore exclusively ascribed to the Supreme 
Deity, or to its earthly representive — a king, emperor, or any sovereign, 
who, allegorically, stood between God and the nation, and was generally 
believed to be a descendant of the former. For this reason triple em- 
blems of various shapes and applications are found on sundry objects of 
royal adornment, but especially on such as belts, neckties, or any encir- 
cling fixture, as can be most frequently observed on the works of ancient 
art in Yucatan, Guatemala, Chiapas, Mexico, &c., whenever the object 
has reference to divine supremacy. 

Behind and on both sides from under the mitre, a short veil falls 
upon the shoulders so as to protect the back of the head and the neck. 
This particular appendage vividly calls to mind the same feature in the 
symbolic adornments of Egyptian or Hindoo priests, and even those ot 
the Hebrew hierarchy. Among the many fragments of ancient sculp- 
ture and architecture strewing the extensive area of Mayapan, at one 
time the metropolis of Maya empire, several heads of the same aj)pear- 
ance, and adorned in the same way, occur, though varying a little in 
some unessential particulars. The same is the case with sculptured 
heads found at the celebrated Uxmal, (pronounced Ushmal.) A mitre, 
in shape exactly like those here referred to, also marks one of the resting 
stations of the Aztec migration, as can be seen on the Histork-IIlero- 
glyphic Table, which, as a valuable relic of that interesting nation, is 
preserved in the national museum in the city of Mexico. 

Apparently more difficult to understand in our Yzamal work of art 
seems to be what is fixed in place of the ears, together with the adorn- 
ments filling up the space on both sides of the head. To decipher these 
enigmatic delineations, we have, besides the direct exiilanations of the 
older commentators of Mexican history, and especially those of Cla\'i- 
gero, the general character of similar mythographical representations 
of other ancient and modern nations of this continent as well as those 
of Asia, which all exhibit the strictest similarity if not congruency, even 
in detail, if idiographically compared. 

* The inverted C (o) is adopted by the SpauisU iu the Maya grammar to rei)reseut 
the sound of tz, and can so be conveniently employed. — The Author. 



392 THE "CARA GIGAMTESCA" OF YZAMAL O YUCATAN. 

Amoiif? the ancients of Mexico and Peru it was considered a x)rinci- 
pal re([uisite for a sovereign, or even a lord of lesser powers, that he 
should never fiiil at any time to first receive the hi.yh coniuiands of 
Heaven, which with all theocratic nations formed the base of all secu- 
larlaw and justice. It was likewise indispensable for him to listen impar- 
tially to the supplications of those whose destinies Providence had 
placed in his hands. Without the most scrupulous observance of such 
sacred duties no monarch or lord could rightfully and for any length of 
time enjoy the high prerogatives of his exalted station. The history of 
the Toltecs and Aztecs, like that of the Mayas in Yucatan, records sev- 
er:il examples of reckless monarchs and transgressing rulers, against 
whom an indignant nation rose up in the defense of the outraged laws. 
Such revolutionary movements terminated, almost without an exception, 
in the loss of crown and life by tlie accused, and in most cases with an 
entire breaking up of the empire itself. The Toltecs on such an occa- 
sion lost their whole prestige in the valley of Mexico. The Mayas, their 
immediate descendants in Yucatan, repeated the same twice. Here the 
first enactment of popular wrath ended with the destruction of the 
realm of Chichen Itza, the oldest in that peninsula. The licentiousness 
and profligacy of two brothers ruling at the same time, under a sort of 
duumvirate, was the cause of the uprising of the nations which cost 
the t\A'0 piinces their lives and the supremacy of that realm. In a 
similar way the kingdom of Mayapau, the then center of Maya glory 
under the dynasty of the " Cocomes," came to its end by a twenty years' 
war, the cause of which was the most insulting neglect of the nation's 
laws on the part of the rulers of Mayapan, while all the other con- 
federate powers, and especially those of the kingdom of Uxmal had risen 
to satisfy the offended i)eople. The destruction of Mayapan, a large 
fortified city of nearly three Spanish leagues in circumference, took place 
about a hundred years before the first Spanish invasion of Yucatan, 

Deaf to the sacred word of the law and deaf to the prayers of the suf- 
fering subjects, these supreme lords of the nation, forgetful of their ob- 
ligations, forfeited crown and life, and their defections, like an untied 
knot, necessarily weakened the very foundation of the whole political 
structure. It is, therefore, but natural if the contemi)lative mind of those 
ancient nations, in their ever apparent symbolism, laid such stress upon 
the hearing organ of their rulers. 

The ideological view of this particular, confessedly so taken by the 
Peruvian, Mexican, and JMaya, may also explain the singukir customs 
among the former, where the lucas and the high nobility used to arti- 
ficially enlarge their ears by wearing in them from early boyhood heavy 
gold rings and other trinkets. The extraordinary size of the external 
hearing organs, by themselves so much appreciated as a mark of high 
distinction, did not fail to bring them into ridicule with the Spanish 
conquerors, who nicknamed them " Orejones^' — that is, "Big ears." 

Whether or not the Mayas ever extended symbolism to such a degree 
as to subject parts of the living body to a similar official disfiguring is 
not known ; but a hyperbolic shaping of the ears or other members of 
the body on the persons of high distinction can be frequently observed 
throughout the representations of their graphic arts, and our present 
relic furnishes an unmistalcable example of it. 

Here two orbicular plates with perforated center take the place of the 
ears. Four knobs in high-relief, probably with reference to the four 
cardinal points, divide these rings, or perhaps Avheels, into so many 
equal quadrants. Eings and wheels signify among the glyphics of the 
Aztecs and Toltecs, and consequently also of the Mayas, the space of 



THE ''CARA GIGANTESCA" OF YZAMAL IN YUCATAN. 393 

one year, as can be seen everywhere on their calendar or monnniental 
slabs. If made tetramerous, as are the present ones, they may have 
particular reference to their quadrienuial cycle, called by them Katun, 
and may serve here as a symbol of space and time combined. The ex- 
act connection of thought between sign and the ear of a ruler can only 
be suggested. 

Leaving theorizing to the reader, it may be well to call attention to 
similar ideographies which were used in ancient Asia and Europe. The 
Greek, for instance, attributed to Saturnus and Kronos a wheel as a 
symbol. The name of the latter as well as his attributes clearly have 
reference to time. Both Kronos and Saturnus are, again, identical 
with Krodo and Satar, of the heathenish Saxons, who combined with 
these personiticatious the same ideas as did the Greeks, who received 
the elements of their theogony from that of older Asiatic nations. 
Krodo, like Kronos, was represented with a wheel. The Greek also asso- 
ciated Saturnus, as the judging ruler in the realm of death, with Neme- 
sis, Adrastea, as his consort. Various representations of the ancient 
Orient show both these personiticatious — that is, Saturnus holdiug the 
scale of Nemesis, and she having his wheel at her feet. 

Though a direct idiosyncratic correlation between Asiatic and Ameri- 
can symbolism cannot be proved here, the example may at least be 
accepted as one of those numberless instances which comparative eth- 
nography should never overlook. 

The two loopknots affixed, one above the right and the other below 
the left ear, are again the symbols of pledge or obligation, and may here 
indicate the bearer's duty to receive the grace from above and listen to 
the prayers of the aiflicted below. 

The diversely-shaped curves filling up the space to both sides of the 
head represent, according to Clavigero's direct statements made else- 
where, tlie prayers and invocations of the devoted. They curl up like 
smoke and incense while seeking entrance to the ears of the paternal 
monarch, such as history and tradition represent Ytzamatul to have 
been. 

In the earliest records of the Maya nation, in regard to the realm of 
Yzamal, no other ruler of such a sublime nature is mentioned, though it 
seems that in various epochs other sections of this widely-extended theo- 
cratic confederacy severally claim such primordial legislators, more or 
less modified iu name and form, but all said to have been gods or demi- 
gods. Thus, Chichen Itza had her Zamna, Mayapan her Cuculcan, which 
latter seems to have been of still higher rank, and is, in form and 
nature, the Maya equivalent for the Mexican Quetzalcoatl. 

The mythical halo surrounding the historical record of Ytzamatul 
seems to have so much overshadowed the memor}" of his successors iu 
office that it would be rather hazardous to connect the image on the 
wall with any other personage but with that first ruler and legislator of 
Yzamal, or, better, Ytzmal, as it was called before this name was his- 
l^anized by the European conquerors. 

There can be but little risk in referring the " Gara gigantesca " in its 
colossal size to a representation of the one who, according to his people's 
belief, ^'■Receives and possesses the grace,'^ as the name of Ytzamatul is 
said to signify. 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 



By M. Becquerel, Member of the French Institute. 



[Translated for the Smithsouiau Institution.*] 
FORESTS CONSIDERED IN A CLIMATOLOGICAL POrNT OF VIEW. 

Forests exercise several kinds of iuflnence over climate ; but, to appre- 
ciate them properly, it is necessary to define what we understand by 
climate. 

The climate of a country, according to Humboldt, is the union of the 
phenomena, whether calorific, aqueous, luminous, aerial, electrical, &c., 
which impress on that country a definite meteorological character, dif- 
ferent from that of another country situated under the same latitude 
and placed in the same geological conditions. Accordingly as one of 
these phenomena predominates, the climate is said to be warm, cold, or 
temperate, dry or humid, calm or variable. Heat, however, is regarded 
as exerting the greatest influence ; after this follow the quantities of 
water which fall in different seasons of the year, the humidity or dry- 
ness of the air, the ijrevailiug winds, the number and distribution of 
storms in the course of the year ; the serenity or nebulosity of the air ; 
the nature of the soil and that of the vegetation which covers it, accord- 
ingly as this is spontaneous or the result of culture. 

1. What is the part which forests fulfill as a shelter against the winds 
or in retarding the evaporation of the rain-water"? 2. What is the 
influence of trees on the water imbibed by the roots and on that which 
exudes by the leaves, as modifying the hygrometric state of the ambient 
air ? 3. How do they modify the calorific state of a country ? 4. Do 
forests exert an influence on the quantity of water which falls, and on 
the distribution of rains in the course of the year, as well as on the 
system of runuing waters and those of springs ? 5. How do they inter- 
vene for the preservation of mountains and of slopes ? G. Do forests 
serve to withdraw from storm-clouds their electri<*ity, and thus to mod- 
erate their effect on neighboring and unwooded regions '? 7. What is 
the nature of the influence which they are capable of exerting as regards 
the public health ? 

From this series of questions it will be seen how much caution is to 
be observed before we pronounce on the influence which the disboscation 
or clearing awa^^ of the forests of a country may exert on its climate. 
It is necessary, first, to know the geographical position, the geological 
constitution of that country, its latitud.e, its proximity to or remoteness 
from the sea, the nature of its soil and that of its subsoil, according as 
one or the other is permeable or impermeable, siliceous, calcareous, or 
argillaceous — elements which must all be taken into consideration. 
These questions, with the exception of a few, not being susceptible of 
solution a priori, exact, of course, a special examination and experi- 
mental study, without which we incur the risk of pronouncing an opin- 
ion not in accordance with that of one who may have considered the 

* From the Atlas Meteorologique de V Obscrvatolre Imperial. Folio, Paris, 1867. 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 395 

sabject from a diiferent point of vievr, or embraced but a part of the 
question. Let us adduce the proofs : 

The action of forests on the climate of a country is very complex, for 
it further depends, first, on their extent, their elevation, the nature of 
the soil, and of the subsoil ; second, on their orientation or direction 
with regard to the winds, whether warm or cold, dry or humid ; third, 
on the age at which they are cut, on their species, that is to say, whether 
the leaves be^caducous or persistent, seeing that the radiating and ex- 
halant lu'operties are.not the same at all seasons; fourth, on the season 
of rain, whether in summer, autumn, or winter; fifth, on the proximity 
of pestilential marshes, &c. 

Whatever be the action exerted by a forest, it will of course bear a 
relation to its extent, for a tree or group of trees does not act like a 
large mass ; a single tree indicates, by the shade which it throws on the 
surrounding soil, that its presence is injurious to the culture of plants 
to a distance which depends on its height ; the loftier the forests, the 
greater the extent of the shade ; the shade depends only on the skirt of 
the forest, and to a certain degree on the density of that skirt. 

The height of the trees, if the forest has a certain density, may be 
an obstacle to the wind, according to their position in regard to the di- 
rection of the latter. It is well understood that forests principally act 
as a shelter only in relation to the lower winds ; the obliquity of these 
is to be taken into consideration, as will be seen hereafter; the depth 
of the forest supplies to a certain extent the compactness in which it 
may be deficient. This action will be developed further on. The nature 
of the soil claims consideration' according to the proportions of clay, 
lime, and silex which enter into its conqiosition. In the case of dif- 
ferent combinations of these constituents the effects are quite different, 
much depending also on the circumstance whether the subsoil be per- 
vious or impervious. All soils, as is well known, may be reduced to the 
four following divisions : 

Pervious soil Jo Pervious subsoil ; 

( "2. Impervious subsoil. 

T...,,„.„.^r.r.o, ^^n S •^- Pervious subsoil ; 

Imuervious sou < , t • i i 

^ ^4. Impervious subsoil. 

The roots of trees, by penetrating into the soil and subsoil, separate 
the particles and thus tacilitate the escape of the surface waters ; the 
older the trees and the more ancient the preserves, the more deeply do 
their roots penetrate, and the greater the facility consequently with 
which the waters traverse the subsoil. 

Let us examine the effects of the four kinds of soil above enumerated 
on the vegetation of forest trees. First case. With a pervious soil and 
pervious subsoil the waters never stagnate, be the soil wooded or not. 
Second case. With a pervious soil and impervious subsoil, stagnation of 
the waters takes place when the soil is not wooded — of this Brenne and 
Sologne are examples ; if it be wooded and the subsoil have not too 
great a depth, the waters readily percolate by help of the roots which 
traverse it ; in the contrary case they remain stagnant. Third case. The 
soil impervious, the subsoil pervious : this soil suits only certain species 
other than the oak. Fourth case. Soil and subsoil impervious: with this 
soil forest cnltuie agrees least of all ; yet are there certain species which 
can live and develop themselves therein. The roots of trees, therefore, 
by making their way into the soil, fulfill an important part in the distri- 
bution of the waters of a country. MM. Gras and Alphonse Surel, 
'from numerous observations made in the higher Alps, explain as fol- 
lows the effect produced by forests situated on the sides of mountains. 



396 FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 

Wlioii a sloping: surface is overnm by vegetation, first by low plants, 
tUen by trees, the roots entwine with one another and form a net-work, 
which gives consistency to the soil; while the branches, furnished with 
their leaves, protect it from the violence of rain-storms. The trunks, 
with the offshoots and brush-wood which surround them, uuiltiply 
points of resistance to the currents which would otherwise furrow the 
earth. The effect of vegetation, therefore, is to give more solidity to 
the soil, and to distribute the waters over the whole surface. The soil, 
being divided by the roots and covered with a spongy humus, absorbs 
a piirt of the waters which cease to tlow over the declivities. It is thus 
that the woods act as a shelter against the force of rains in mountainous 
countries. 

The action of forests as a shelter in regard to winds is not absolute ; 
for the effects depend on the height to which the wind blows. If this 
height does not attain that of the forest, the wind is arrested at every 
moment by the trees; loses its velocity; and, if the forest has a sufficient 
density, will have wholly ceased by the time it reaches its limit. When it 
blows to a height greater than that of the trees of the forest, the latter has 
no action except on the lower stratum of the current of air, unless its 
direction be inclined ; above the forest, the upper mass of air which has 
encountered no obstacle, and which has a horizontal direction, continues 
with the same velocity. The action, then, of a forest as a shelter, is 
limited. 

Forests may act in still two other ways : when they happen to lie in 
the direction of a violent current of air, at a maximum of saturation 
with vapor, a part penetrates into the mass, the other part is dis])ersed 
in all directions by the obstacle presented to its passage; the portion 
which rises, if it encounters a colder stratum of air, yields its vapor to 
precipitation, and a fall of rain ensues. Again, when a current of humid 
air charged with pestilential miasms penetrates into a forest of a certain 
extent, it is altogether divested of them. It has been observed in the 
Pontine marshes that the interposition of a screen of trees preserves all 
that is behind it, while uncovered tracts are exposed to fevers. The trees, 
therefore, sift the infected air by removing its miasms. This fact has 
been reported by M. Eigaud de Ldle, in his work on malaria. 

M. Hardy, director of the government nurseries at Algiers, has 
announced facts which clearly show the influence that trees may exer- 
cise as a shelter. There exist iu Algiers three groups of frutescent or 
shrubby plants ; the first being formed of trees with caducous leaves, 
l)0i)lars, alders, &c., which grow in ravines and on the banks of streams; 
the second comprising the agave, the cactus, the palms, &g. ; the third 
consisting of vegetable species with persistent leaves, such as the olive, 
the carob, the wild laurel, &c. M. Hardy has remarked that the trees 
of the first group which are indigenous groAv rather iu breadth than in 
height, and that they constantly present a large and flattened top ; if 
some species happen to attain considerable altitude under the most 
favorable conditions for their development, they are observed to grow 
with vigor for some time, but arrived at the height of the trees of the 
country, the top becomes dry and the branches then extend themselves 
horizontally. Effects of this kind are to be seen in the poplars planted 
at Bouffarich, in the center of the plain of Mitidja, under conditions of 
humidity of soil which leave nothing to be desired for this species, and 
yet these trees are incapable of surpassing the height of from 10 to 
12 metres, (33 to 39 feet.) There are found, it is true, specimens which 
rise higher and still seem not to suffer at the top, but these are situated 
at the base of a steep hill whose crest is much more lofty than the 
trees. 



FORESTS AND THEIE CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 397 

This inability of the vegetation to rise beyond a certain height, which 
is lar from being that at which the to])S of such trees ordinarily sto]), 
e%idently proves that there exists, at a greater or less elevation, a stra- 
tum of air in which development in height is impossible. This effect 
must be attributed to the air current of the desert, which is warm and 
dry; all trees which grow in Algeria are subject to its influence. The 
trees of the third group, the cypresses, the cedars, &c., which brave 
this inllueuce, rise to a very considerable height. 

The principles above set forth suffice to show the part which for- 
ests nmy play as a shelter, and within what limits they act. We are 
naturally led to examine the value of the contradictory opinions re- 
specting the effects of their removal, enunciated by Arago and Gay- 
Lussac, in the commission appointed in 183G to consider the expediency 
of adopting article 219 of the forest code. '' If the screen of forests on 
the maritime border of Xormandy or Brittany," said M. Arago, " were 
levelled, these countries would become accessible to the west winds, 
the temperate winds coming from the sea. Hence there would be a 
diminution in the cold of the winters. If a similar forest were cleared 
away on the eastern frontier of France, the glacial wind of the east 
would there be more powerfully propagated, and the winters would be 
more rigorous: the destruction of a screen of this sort in the one and the 
other situatiou would, therefore, haxe produced effects diametrically op- 
posite."' 

In principle M. Arago was right, but not absolutely, for the eff"ects de- 
pend on the locality where the forests are situated, on their altitude, 
and on various other causes. 

M. Gay-Lussac used very different language : " In my opinion," lie 
said, '• no i^ositive proof has thus far been obtained that woods have of 
themselves any real influence on the climate of a large country or of a 
particular locality, and especially that they have a different influence 
from that of all kinds of vegetation. It might be asked if the evapora- 
tion of water is tlie same ou a naked soil and one covered with vegeta- 
tion. The questions are so complicated when considered under a cli- 
matic point of view, that the solution is very difficult, not to say im- 
possible. Another advantage in wooded soils which I do not dispute, 
is to promote the abundance of springs of water. And all, in fact, that 
teuds to arrest the flow of rain-water and to enable it to infiltrate slowly 
into the earth, instead of passing off" in torrents, is favorable to such 
springs. But once more, this advantage attributed to woods is pos- 
sessed, in perhaps the highest degree, by a herbaceous vegetation ; 
the close and numerous blades, the comose and interlaced roots, com- 
pose a thick and spongy mass which admirably intercepts the move- 
ment of the water, retains it, and yields it up by little and little," 

On the other hand, M. Beugnot, reporter for the commission named 
in 18.51 to revise, as far as was needful, the forest code in matters re- 
lating to clearings, denied, though with less authoritativeness than 
MM. Gay-Lussac and Arago, the intluence exercised by great masses of 
wood on the climate of a country. In his report he remarks : " The de- 
partments of La Loire-Inferieure, La Mauclie, Le Pas de Calais, Le Xord, 
La Somme, Le Maine-et-Loire, are among those which are least wooded. 
Is the climate less salubrious than that of the Landes, of the Gi- 
ronde, of Loiret, of Cher, and Loiret-Cher, which are among the most 
densely wooded?" "We arrive," he adds, " at the same conclusion, on 
comparing together the different countries of Euroi^e; consexiuently 
the clearing away of woods is in nowise injurious to the salubrity of 
the country." 



398 FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 

Less proof it would be impossible to bring to the solution of a question. 
We shall i^roceed to discuss each of these opinions ; not contenting our- 
selves, like their authors, with adhering to generalities, but by a resort 
to facts and experiments, the sole means of arriving at a solution. 

M. Arago was right in saying that forests served as a shelter against 
winds, but he did not say within what limits, and yet therein, as we shall 
show, lies the whole question. The Alps, by reason of their situation 
and height, protect certain parts of the coast of tbe Mediterranean, es- 
])ecially those about Sice and Hyeres, from the cold winds of the north. 
The same chain of mountains renders exceptional also the climate of 
Lake Maggiore, Lake Como, and the neighboring districts. Nothing 
like this would occur, at least over so great an extent, if, in i)lace of the 
Alps, which are several thousand metres in height, there were moun- 
tains of an ordinary altitude or mere hills; for, the protected surface, as 
will be seen, depends on the elevation of the mountains. Now, the ac- 
tion of forests, composed of the loftiest trees, having at most a height 
of from 30 to 40 metres, (100 to 130 feet,) cannot be different from that of 
simple hills. Their mass supplies in this case the comi)actness in 
which they are defective. 

"In the' plains of Orange," says M. Gasparin, {Tmife (VAgriculturej t. 
1, p. 190.) "the north wind which passes over the mountains of Dauphine 
strikes the earth at an angle of about 15° ; whence it follows that a height 
of 200 metres (G5G feet) protects a qjace of 2,100 metres (7,087 feet,) a 
border always reserved ibr the most \'aluable crops, and such as most 
shun the cold. Under the iniiuence of such a shelter, the mean tem- 
perature of the year is raised by more than 1° ; whence it is that the 
orange tree flourishes in the open grounds at Ollioules and Hyeres, 
while it cannot stand the winters of Marseilles ; hence, too, the temper- 
ature of the air at the Lakes Como and Garda permits the cultivation 
of the olive, which dares not show itself in the plains of Lombardy." 

We will cite still another example which furnishes an idea of the ex- 
tent which may be protected by a shelter of slight elevation. In the 
valley of the Ehone, where the ^nisfm/ frequently blows, a simple hedge 
2 metres in height (7 feet) is capable of protecting a space of 22 metres 
(72 feet) in breadth, a limit which, as M. Gasparin observes, should 
serve as a guide in the discussion. It is by means of such shelters, 
which are greatly multiplied in this valley, that the cultivation of le- 
guminous plants is possible, as it could not be without this expedient. 
In the open plains of Provence, hedges of still greater height are ob- 
tained by planting the cypress and the laurel. All these shelters, though of 
little elevation, protect large spaces when the lower currents of cold wind 
are horizontal. In this connection, we should not forget to mention the 
different aspect presented by the two faces of the Pyrenees ; the tract 
on the side of tSpain, which is exposed to the winds of the south, is 
arid, while that which looks toward France is covered with pastm-es 
of fine vegetation. 

The examples which we have just cited suffice to show that the action 
of forests, even when composed of trees of the tallest growth, is limited 
and cannot consequently extend to an entire country, as is maintained 
by M. Arago. 

M. Gay-Lussac is still less explicit, for he only propounds questions, 
or gives their solution a priori without proofs in support of it. He asks, 
for example, whether the evaporation of water is the same on a naked 
soil as on one covered with vegetation ; he asserts, on the other hand, 
that the influence attributed to trees upon the system of waters per- 
tains in the highest degree to the herbaceous vegetation. The examin- 



FORESTS AND THEIE CLIMATIC INFLUENOE. 399 

ation of these questious requires that we should take into consideration 
the folloAvinp: data: 

Schubler lias ])roved that all earths do not possess the same property 
of imbibition. In 100 parts of earth desiccated to 40° or 50°, the num- 
bers fountl, for the quantities of water absorbed, are these : 

Siliceous sand 2r> Pure clay 70 

Calcareous sand 29 Fine calcareous earth 85 

Barren clay 40 Humus 190 

Calcareous and siliceous sands are the substances, thel^efore, which 
have least affinity for water, Avhile humus is that which has most. The 
state of division, as will be seen, has an intluence on the conditions of 
fine calcareous earth. It is impossible to separate, in the present case, 
the i)roperty of imbibition from that of ai)ti>ade for desiccation, to 
which regard must be had in evaporation. Experiment proves that 100 
parts of the water of saturated earth lose in four hours, at 13°.75 
(57° F.) of temperature: 

Siliceous sand 83.0 Argillaceous earth 34.9 

Calcareous sand 75.9 Pure clay 31.9 

Barren clay 52. Lime in line powder 28. 6 

Fertile clay 45. 7 Humus 20. 15 

It will be seen from this that siliceous sand is the substance which 
allows water to escape most easily, while humus is that which retains 
it longest. Calcareous saud loses water less easily than silicious sand. 

We will further mention the results obtained by Melloni in experi- 
ments relating- to the refrigeration undergone by certain substances 
under the iuliuence of nocturnal radiation, and which should be taken 
into consideration : 



Substances. 



Eatio in the 
effects of re- 
friseratioQ. 



Plants with smooth leaves . 

Siliceous saud 

Vegetable earth 



103 

103 

92 



Now, the absorbing i)Ower being- equal to the emissive power, it must 
be admitted that the substances will in the same time acquire heat in 
the same ratio. Such are the elements which enter into the solution of 
the question, or rather questions, proposed by M. Gay-Lussac. 

When rain falls on the soil, the upper strata first become saturated, 
then the excess of water passes to the lower stratum, which likewise 
becomes saturated until the excess of one stratum completely saturates 
that which is beneath it. When the upper stratum becomes dry through 
evaporation in the air, it resumes, from that which is below, what it has 
lost, as does the latter from the third stratum, until all the water pri- 
marily absorbed is dissipated. As to the evaporation, it is evidently 
less, all else being- equal, on a wooded surface than on a merely sodded 
one. 

M. Gasparin {Tralte cVAf/ricuIturc, t. II, p. IIG) has made experiments 
on the suljject we are considering-, and finds, on comparing- the evapor- 
ation of a surface of water with that of a surface of earth completely 
saturated, in the month of August, and at a temperature of 23° to UG°, 
(73° to 79° F.,) the following results as the ratios of one to the other. 



400 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 



First clay... 
Second (lay. 
Third day'. . 
Fonrtli day. 
Fifth day.'.. 
Sixth day.., 
Seyeuth day 



Evaporation 
from the 
water. 



2IiUimcfrcs. 
15. 
1:3. 7 
ILf) 
12.0 
11.7 
11.0 
!.). 4 



Evaporation 
from the 
earth. 



MiUimcfrcs. 
4.1 
2.5 
L8 
1.3 
1.3 
1.2 
1.3 



Evaporation, therefore, proceeds rapidly iu the earth at first, but, as 
we see, becomes finally very feeble. 

The series of experiments we have above reported show that evapor- 
ation must vary considerably with the nature and physical state of the 
soil, a consideration to which no regard has heretofore been paid ; thus, 
lands covered with low vegetation, or with woods, and wliose soil is 
composed of humus inixed with sand, lime, or clay, absorb more water 
than those which do not contain humus, and retain it consequently 
longer than the latter. The effects vary according to the proportions of 
the different elements which compose the soil. The infiltrations are 
greater iu wooded lands than iu sodded, the roots dividing them to a 
greater depth, and thus facilitating the passage of the waters which 
are not arrested excei)t by some imi)ervious stratum. The branches of 
trees ]irovided with leaves not only form an obstacle to the evaporation 
of the water resting on the surface, but the leaves are further constantly 
surrounded by an atmosphere of vapor proceeding from exhalation, and 
which prevents evaporation, in so far as this exhaled water suffices for 
the saturation of the air ; during all this time the infiltration continues 
iu the earth. Herbaceous plants, being deficient in mass, do not pro- 
duce the same effect ; iu fact, whoever has been in i>laces wooded in 
part, and in part covered with sod, must have remarked that, after rain 
and exposure for some time to the sun, the sodded spaces had become 
dry, while the wooded were still damp. 

Let us sj^eak now of the water taken up by the roots, and of that 
which is exhaled in the air. The roots of trees, as is proved by the 
experiments of Hales, Dutrochet, Mirbel, and M. Chevreul, draw iu a 
great fiuantity of water charged with the divers elements which go to 
constitute the sap; the surplus of the water is exuded by the leaves, 
and continually maintains in the ambient medium a humid atmosphere. 
The water imbibed proceeds not only from the superficial strata, but, 
moreover, from the more or less deep strata into which the roots pene- 
trate, and which furnish little or no water to herbaceous vegetation; 
these strata are fed by subterranean currents of water often coming from 
a great distance. Further, this water which existed in the deeper strata, 
being effused into the atmosphere, afterwards falls as dew, fog, or rain, 
and thus augments the quantity of water which the surface of the soil 
receives eveu at remote distances. 

The quantity of water imbibed by the roots is such that it is difficult, 
in fact, to make anything grow near trees. Several causes prevent it. 
The earth which envelopes the roots nearest the surface is often in a 
certain state of desiccation ; it loses by degrees its nutritive principles, 
its lime, &c. ; it becomes dense, and, no longer containing aught else 
than clay and sand, acquires compactness, and is then more perjueable. 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 401 

It has now been sTiown, 1st, tliat there exists a difference between eva- 
poration on a naked and on a sodded soil; 2d, that there is such a differ- 
ence also in regard to a sodded soil and a wooded one, with the advantage 
in favor of the" latter that it better facilitates infiltration of the w'ater; 
3d, that the quantity of water imbibed by the roots does not parch the 
soil, since, after exhalation, it again falls in the state of fog, dew, or 
rain. Desiccation only takes place when the soil is exhausted. 

Let us see now to what point the conclusion of M. Beugnot, that the 
clearing away of woods is never prejudicial to salubrity, has its founda- 
tion in fact. ' This conclusiou is true if the soil is siliceous or calcareous 
and the subsoil pernie.ible; but it is not so if both are argillaceous, for 
the roots are no longer i>resent to facilitate infiltration, unless indeed 
drainage is used to remove the stagnant water. Of this, Sologue, La 
Brenuo, and Dombes are examples. Xor is it true if the woods which 
are removed existed in the proximity of swamps producing pestilential 
miasms, like the Pontine marshes. 

Let us next consider the calorific influence of forests. This influence 
has been established as follows by Humboldt and the meteoroh^gists : 
They screen the soil from solar radiation, preserve a greater humidity 
therein, and promote the decomposition of the leaves and twigs, which 
are converted into humus; they produce frigoriflc effects through the 
strong aqueous transpiration of the leaves, and by multiplying, through 
the expansion of the branches, the surfaces, which, acquiring heat by 
the action of the solar radiation, are again chilled by the nocturnal 
radiation. In relation to this latter action, positive experiments demon- 
strate that the stratum of air in contact with a prairie or a field covered 
with grass or with leafy plants is cooled, all else being equal, under the 
nocturnal radiation, to the amount of several degrees, sometimes from 
6° to 7° or 8° (10° to 15° F.) below the temperature of the air at some metres 
higher up ; while nothing similar takes place on a denuded surface, which 
grows warm or cool according to the nature of the parts composing the 
soil. We will add, however, that, inasmuch as the leaves as well as the 
trunk and branches acquire heat under the solar influence and preserve 
during the night a portion of that heat, this effect must naturally coun- 
terbalance that resulting from the nocturnal radiation. Until now, no 
account has been taken of this effect of solar radiation upon trees, 
although it exerts a considerable influence on the temperature of the 
air beyond the woods as within them. To explain the calorific influence 
of ti-e'es on the temperature of the air, it is necessary, therefore, to join 
to the older observations those which have been more recently made on 
the temperature of the air at different heights in the neighborhood and 
at the periphery of trees. 

Humboldt and Bonpland, recumbent on the grass during the fine 
nights of the tropics in the plain of Venezuela and the lower Orinoco, 
experienced a humid coolness when the strata of air at a height of 1 or 
2 metres (3 or 7 feet) had a temperature of 20° to 27°, (79° to 80° F.) 
In the equatorial and tropical regions, where the nocturnal radiation 
acts with so much force by reason of the serenity of the sky, the increase 
of temperatm^e, as we ascend, is manifested as in middle latitudes, but 
to a much greater height. Hence, in the equatorial zone, no change is 
observed in the vegetation from the level of the sea to the height of GOO 
metres, (1,969 feet;) and beyond this, even to an altitude of 1,200 metres, 
(3,937 feet,) we still recognize the flora of the tropical zone. 

We can now explain why, under our latitudes, certain products of 
culture fail in the depressions of the siuface and succeed upon hills, 
26 s 



402 FOEESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 

and for wliat reason veg-etables are overtaken by frost in low situations 
and are exempt from its effects at heights a little more elevated. M. 
Martins observed a ttict of this kind in the Botanic Garden of Mont- 
l)ellit'r. Laurels, figs, olives, nearly all perish in the lower parts of this 
garden, while, under conditions of shelter wholly similar, they are safe 
at an eleviition greater by only a few metres. Do we not ]i;now also 
tliat vines planted on the acclivities of hills i)roduce better wine than 
those which grow at the bottom, on account of a more perfect maturity ? 
Experiments which we have made with the electric thermometer 
evince quite satistactorily this remarlvable property, that the teinpera- 
tiire of the air rises from 1'".33 (-4 feet 4 inches) above the soil to 21'".25 
{6S feet 10 inches) at the summit of a chestnut tree, and probably from 
this summit upward to a certain height whose limit has been fixed by 
M. Martins and other meteorologists 5 for the leafy periphery of trees 
must be supposed to act like the soil covered with low plants, by reason 
of its great absorbing and emissive powder. The mean differences 
between the temperatures of the two stations have been verified at the 
Jardin des Plantes, during several years: 

From 1™.:?3 to 16 metres 0o.420 

From 16 metres to 21™.25 0o.580 ; 

clearly showing the influence exercised by low plants and the periphery 
of trees on the temperature of the ambient air through the effect of 
calorific radiation. Let us now inquire what the influence of the body 
of the tree — that is to say, of the trunk and branches — may amount to. 
Every body, not excepting trees, immersed in air grows warm or cold, 
and partakes consequently, more or less, in tlie variations of the temper- 
ature experienced by the ambient medium, the effects produced depend- 
ing on the state of the siufaces of the body, on its conducting power, 
and its specific heat.. The experiments whose results we are about to 
report, as detailed in several memoirs which we have had occasion to 
present to the academy", (ISGl-'Gl,) furnish the clearest proof of the 
above proposition. Some of those results are as follows: 

On examining the variations of temperature in the interior of a maple, 
0"\J: (IJ inch) in diameter and situated in a group of other trees, it was 
found that, during the months of August, September, and October, the 
mean temperatures presented no sensible difference with that of the air 
except in September, although the variations in the tree were in amount 
very nearly one-half of those of the air. 

The temperature in a tree is far from being the same in all its ])arts. 
If the leaves and branches promptly assume an equilibrium of tempera- 
ture with the air, not the less promptly does the trunk conform tliere- 
with,and that to a depth of 0"M, (f inches.) The effects are ditterent in 
trees exposed to the solar radiation, according to the j)roximity or re- 
moteness of objects which absorb and radiate heat : a plum tree i)laced 
near a wall, 2 metres (7 feet) thick, was covered, in the month of July, 
with leaves and fruit; the tree was metres (20 feet) in height, and in 
diameter, 0'".33, (13 inch.) The difference between the maximum and 
minimum of temperature had, for several days, been from 21^ to 25^", 
and the temj^erature at the interior of the tree had ascended to 37^, 
(99^" E. ;) such a state of things could not long exist without weakening 
the tree, hence the leaves withered by degrees, the fruit fell off", and 
everything announced the approach of death, which took place a month 
later; thus ^vas produced an effect which gardeners call a heat stroke, 
{coxp do dial cur.) 

We see, therefore, that a tree becomes heated in the air like an inert 
body, and the more rapidly in proportion as its mass has less volume 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 403 

and its bark a more considerable absorbing power; so true is this that 
when the trunk of a phini tree was enveloped to the height of 2 metres 
(7 feet) with tin, which possesses strong reflecting i^roperties, the tem- 
perature of the air being perceptibly the same as in the preceding case, 
the difference between the maximum and minimum descended from 
130.07 to 50,2. (23° to 1(P.) It Avill be seen from this that the tempera- 
ture had become more uniform in the plum tree. On removing the en- 
velope, the difference between the maxima and minima increased and 
became what it had been before. 

Metallic envelopes or those of straw diminishing in trees the varia- 
tions of temperature and rendering the movement of heat more regu- 
lar, it will readily be conceived that the nature and thickness of the 
bark must exert a great influence on the calorific state of trees. Ex- 
periments made on the Opuntia and on other plants tend to show that 
the leaves and small branches are ]n'omptly brought into an equilibrium 
of temperature with the ambient air. On comparing the mean temper- 
ature of the air with that of the interior of a chestnut tree having a 
diameter of 0"\5, (20 inches,) it has been found that the mean of the 
temperatures observed in the tree, during a period of thirteen months, 
was superior by 0°.3G to that of the air at its surface, and by 0°.83 to 
the temperature of the air at the north and in the sliade ; this difference 
is owing probably to the fact that the thermometer was placed to the 
north and sheltered from the sun, while the tree was shielded from the 
norih winds by a neighboring building, and was exposed moreover to 
the solar radiation. Experiments made on other trees show that the 
principle of equilibrium of temperature between the air and the trees 
shifts with the lapse of more or less time, and so much the more rapidly 
as the variations in the air are less frequent. In winter and autumn 
the difference is at a minimum, and in spring and summer it is at a maxi- 
mum. The maximum of temperature in the air takes place, according 
to the season, between 2 and 3 o'clock in the afternoon, while in 
the tree it occurs after sunset. If regard be had to the seasons, it will 
be found that it is in summer especially that the maximum is more 
marked ; it does not occur till about nine o'clock in the evening. 

The heat disengaged in the organs and tissues of plants interposes 
but very feebly as regards their i)roper temperature, which is almost 
"wholly of extrinsic derivation ; for its principal cause, we must look to 
the solar radiation and the temi^erature of the air. The diurnal varia- 
tion of temperature in the air is easy to determine, since it is the differ- 
ence between the maximum and minimum of the day. To find this 
variation in a tree is a matter of difficulty, but we may arrive at it, in 
at least an approximate manner, by the following means : 

Observations on temperature were made at Geneva, from 179G to ISOO, 
at the rising and setting of the sun, and at 2 o'clock p. m., in the air to 
the north and in the interior of a chestnut tree 0'".G (24 inches) in 
diameter; the maxima and minima could be obtained by combining the 
temperatures at 2 o'clock and at the rising and setting of the sun, the 
maximum taking place about or after the setting of the sun, as was said 
above, and the minimum about the time of its rising; the difference 
obviously gives the variations within the tree. By discussing the varia- 
tions thus obtained in the air and in the tree, it was seen that, during 
the years 1790, 1797, and 1798, the variations were, on a mean, more than 
five times greater in the air than in the tree. 

In the observations made at the Jardiu des Plantes, from December, 
1858, to July, 1859, it was ascertained that the means of the variations 
of temperature in the air and in the tree were in the ratio of 3^.80 to 



404 FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 

0^.81, tliat is to say, that they were 4.T times greater in the air than in 
the tree, instead of 5.89 as was realii:ed at Geneva. This difference 
depends evidently on the bad oondnctibility of the wood, which does not 
permit the variations of temperature in the air to be rapidly transmitted 
into the tree ; it is easy to conceive that variations in the air distinctly 
marked, but of short duration, cannot become appreciable in the tree. 

The leaves and young l)ranclies of trees, and the humbler plants which 
cover the meadows, existing under the same conditions as regards warm- 
ing and cooling, produce the same effects of radiation; it is in the boughs 
of a certain bulk and in the trunks, therefore, that we must study the 
intiuence exerted by the proper temperature of the plant on the ambient 
temperature. A green stem should be considered, in fact, as a body 
covered with an envelope possessing a great emissive and absorbent 
power, by virtue of which its temperature is lowered or elevated inces- 
santly through the effect of the radiation into space or of the solar radia- 
tion ; but when the parenchymatous tissue is rei)laced by a cortical tissue, 
the lignum which is beneath being humid and a worse conductor in a 
transverse than longitudinal direction, the movement of heat is then 
effected very slowly, and brisk changes of temi)erature are no longer 
observed in the interior as in the case of the young branches. From the 
above it will be seen that the variations being much less in the stem of 
a tree of a certain volume than in the air, if the temperature of the air 
varies even to a wide extent, but the variations are at the same time of 
brief duration, the caloritic state of the tree is but little affected thereby. 
In the contrary case, the tree finally assumes an equilibrium of tempera- 
ture with the air. 

Every vegetable has need of a certain degree of heat in order for its 
tissues to perform their functions ; w^hen the temperature rises gradually, 
the parts dilate ; the evaporation and circulation of the sap is acceler- 
ated ; the lowering of the temperature i^roduces contrary effects. On 
the other hand, alternations of heat and cold give a new activity to vege- 
tation ; thus under the tropics, the great variations of temperature during 
the day and night, in that part of the air which envelops the trees, being 
equally manifested in the interior of the trees, this state qf things proves 
eminently favorable to the forest vegetation. 

The atmosphere is the source from which all plants derive the heat 
of which they have need in order to germinate, develop themselves, and 
accomplish all the phases of their existence. The mean temperature of 
a place, the daily variations and the extremes of the temperature of the 
air, are the calorific elements to be principally taken into consideration 
in the phenomena of vegetable life and in researches relative to the calo- 
rific influence of forests and of woods in general upon climate. The 
heat produced in the tissues in which the transformation of the sap is 
effected does not act sensibly on the temperature of vegetables ; at least 
it is not appreciable by our instruments; what they possess is bor- 
rowed. 

We have ourselves undertaken several series of observations on tem- 
perature in different localities, both within the woods and without, to a 
certain distance, in order to ascertain the influence which forests exerr 
on the mean temperature. The results which we shall obtain will form 
the subject of another memoir. 

It is proper here to remark that plants possess of themselves the fac- 
ulty of resisting for a certain time an extreme degree of refrigeration 
without suffering organic lesion, as we have ascertained in a series of 
experiments which leave no doubt on that point. We have been thus 
led to believe that there exists in the organization of vegetables a cause 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 405 

indepeudeut of couductibility, -wliicli strives against a reduction of tem- 
perature below zero, and preserves them for a certain time from the dis- 
astrous effects of excessive cold. The action varies ^yith the diameter 
of the tree, and probably with the species to which it pertains. 

In northern regions the temperature of vegetables comi)ared with 
that of the air is very remarkable. M. Bourgeaud, under the 5Sth de- 
gree of latitude, at places where the temperature descends in winter 
below the degree of congelation of mercury, that is to say to more than 

— -40°, has substantiated the following facts: First. In the Popidus hal- 
sami/era and Abies alba, during eight months, from November, 1857, to 
June, 1858, at 9 o'clock in the morning, the moment at which he sup- 
X^osed the temperature to be very nearly a mean, the mean temperatures 
of the air and the tree were the same ; which accords with the observa- 
tions above spoken of, and is in conformity with the principle that the 
temperature of plants unceasingly tends to form an equilibrium with 
that of the ambient air, notwithstanding the eflicient causes which are 
incessantly in action to increase or diminish it. Second. The monthly 
temperatures presented little difterence in the tree and in the air, al- 
though there were very great differences in the maxima and minima ; 
in the month of January, for example, the maxima and minima were in 
the air +0°, (43° F.,) and— 34o.C0, (—29° F.,) and in the poplar 

— 20.20, (280 F.,) and — 29o.70, (—21° F.) Third. During the eight 
months of observation the mean temperature in the soil, at a depth of 
0'".913 (3 feet) and 0™.G09, (2 feet,) was twice as high as in the air. 

The thaw takes place ordinarily in May, spring at once commences, 
and soon after summer arrives ; the rapidity of vegetation is such that 
the cereals sown in the month just mentioned are reaped toward the 
end of July; blossoms appear on the poplar when the temperature of 
the air is at +13°.4:7 (oG^ F.) and while the earth still freezes at a depth 
of 0"\G09, (2 feet,) and 0'".913, (3 feet.) The leaves display themselves 
in the first days of June, when the roots are buried in strata of earth 
where the temperature is still at zero, (32° F. ;) like effects are produced 
when the branches of the vine are introduced into a conservator}- while 
the stalks and roots are in the ground outside ; the buds and even leaves 
begin to be developed when it is freezing externally at 8^ and 10° below 
zero, (18° and 14:° above zero F.) We have here a new proof of the 
intluence of the temperature of the air upon that of trees, showing that, 
even when the roots are in frozen earth, vegetation may jiroceed under 
that influence. The Populus bahamifcra and Abies alba, as well as other 
species, undergo exposure to a cold of — 40°, without injurj- to their 
organization, but the roots of these trees are in strata of earth which 
are not sensibly reached by the frost. A proof that there is here a cer- 
tain resistance to cold is the fact that the greatest minima of temper- 
ature, being — 34°.G0, ( — 29° F.) in the au^, were, in the poplar, only 

— 29°.70, ( — 21° F,) and that the temperature has been twice as high 
in the tree as in the air. 

After having stated the relations which have been found to exist 
between the temperature of the air and its variations, as compared with 
those of vegetables, it remains for us to show what temperature of the 
air has been realized above trees of large growth, such as a chestnut 
21'".25 (70 feet) in height, at the summit of which had been placed one 
of the solderings" of an electric thermometer in contact with the leaves. 
Multiplied observations have demonstrated that the temperature of the 
air above the chestnut tree depends chiefly on the calorific state of the 
leaves and branches which warm or cool the ambient air more or less, 
according as they have been exposed a longer or shorter time to solai 
radiatiouj or to noctm^nal radiation. 



406 FOKESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 

A tree (triiuk, brauclies, and leaves) must, as has been said above, 
become warmer or cooler, like all bodies immersed in air, according as 
the sun is above or below the horizon. In the first case, it grows warm 
from the eflect of the solar radiation ; in the second, it grows cool from 
thilt of the nocturnal radiation, and this process goes on until the tree 
acquires an equilibrium of temperature with the surrounding medium. 
A\'!!en nocturnal radiation commences, if the sky be without clouds, in 
proiwrtion as the upper branches and leaves become cool, those which 
are underneath yield up their heat in succession to those above through 
the process of radiation. From this it will readily be conceived that 
the strata of air w^hich envelop the tree retain during a great part of 
the night a temperature higher than that of the strata of air which are 
remote from it. 

A tree which has been warmed by the effect of solar radiation so far 
acts as a body imi)arting warmth to the air, that, when a rain occurs 
suddenly', the temperature of the air is more lowered at some distance 
from the tree than immediately around its periphery. Of this we Avill 
cite an exemplification. On the 9th of May, at one o'clock, after a strong 
insolation or free exposure to the sun's rays, the following temperatures 
were observed : 

Temperature above the chestnut tree ' 19°.4 (67° F.) 

Temperature at a certain distance 18°.3 (65° F.) 

Difference lo.l (2° F.) 

Half an hour afterward, a rain fell, and the temperatures changed : 

Temperature above the chestnut tree 17°.5 (64° F.) 

Temperature beyond it 15o.2 (60° F.) 

Difference 2o.3 (4° F.) 



Thus, in the interval of half an hour, the air which surrounded the 
tree had been cooled by only I'^.O, (3° F.,) while that which was a little 
distant from it was cooled to the extent of 3°.l, (GOF.;) it follows 
that the tree had radiated heat so as to impart warmth to the ambient 
atmosphere. The sun having reappeared after some moments, the 
temperatiu'e at both stations rose, but somewhat less above the chest- 
nut tree than at a certain distance from it. These temperatures, at 3 
o'clock, were as follows : 

Above the tree 20°.8 (69° F.) 

At a certain distance 19°.2 (67° F.) 



Difference lo.6 (2° F.) 



To give an idea of the warmth imparted to the air through the pres- 
ence of leaves, we will take, for an example, the temperature of the air in 
July, 18C3, at 9 o'clock in the morning, and at 3 and 9 o'clock in the 
evening; for the monthly mean the following results were obtained: 

At 9 o'clock in tlie morning 21°.56 (71° F.) 

At 3 o'clock in the evening 26°.76 (80° F/ 

At 9 o'clock in the evening 19° .20 (67° F.) 

Here we see that the temperature of the air was at its maximum at 3 
o'clock, and that it had diminished by nearly a fourth at 9 in the even- 
ing. The radiation of the internal heat of the trunk and branches of 
the tree continued, on the other hand, to repair the losses sustained by 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 407 

the leaves subjected to the influence of the nocturnal radiation until G 
o'clock in the morning', when the temperature was found to be the same 
at l"'.oo (4 feet) al)ove the soil to the north and south, at IG metres (53 
feet) and at liPM*") (G9 feet) on the summit of the tree. This is the 
period of the day when the celestial radiation has ceased to be prepon- 
derant, and when there is an equilibrium between the effects of the ter- 
restrial radiation and those of the celestial radiation. 
In July, 18G4, the results obtained were: 

At 9 o'clock in the morning 21O.04 (70^ F.) 

At 3 o'clock in tlio evening 250.94 (78^ F.) 

At 9 o'clock in the evening 19^^.00 (70° F.) 

The in-ogressive reduction again continued till G o'clock in the morn- 
ing, when the temperature was the same at 1"\33 (4 feet) above the soil 
to the north and south, and also at IG metres (53 feet) above the soil, 
and was equal to 15^.50, (G0° F.) If the months of January, 18G3 and 
1184, be taken we have — 

1863. 1864. 

At 9 o'clock in the morning 4o.57 (40*^ F.) — 0o.05 (31" F.) 

At 3 o'clock in the evening 7°A1 (4.5° F.) -f3o.30 (38^ F.) 

At 9 o'clock in the evening 5^.13 (41° F.) O^.OO (32" F.) 

At 6 o'clock in the morning 3^^.19 (38° F.) —1°X)8 (303 F.) 

It is thus seen that, whether we take the trees with or without leaves, 
the heat acquired during- the day diminishes till G o'clock in the morn- 
ing. 

We see now^ that it may be assumed as an ascertained fact that trees, 
exposed to the solar and celestial radiation, impart heat or cold to the 
contiguous strata of air, a property which had not previously been sus- 
pected ; it was supposed, on the contrary, that the evaporation which 
takes place by means of the leaves was always a source of refrigeration; 
this may indeed exert an influence, but it is not the predominant cause. 
This question, however, will be resumed in another memoir. 

The experiments above spoken of were made on isolated trees, but 
the results have been the same on groups of trees sheltering one another, 
so as to form an obstacle to the direct action of the sun; only the ele- 
vation of temperature in the trunk has been found to be less, all else 
being equal, than when the tree was isolated. In fact, forests, coppices, 
and groups of trees must observe the same laws as the single chestnut 
tree; but the effects of heat, of which we have been speaking, vary ac- 
cording to the height of the trees, the extent of their branches, and the 
mass of leaves with w^hich they are charged. What consequences 
shoidd be inferred in relation to the influence exerted by forests on 
the local climated This question we shall answer on another occasion. 
We shall content ourselves here with saying that it is necessary to 
have regard to the nature of the soil, as to whether it be dry or humid, 
to the gTeater or less facility with which the air circulates, to the ex- 
posure and other indeterminate causes which vary according to locali- 
ties. But from the fact that the wood, under the influence of the solar 
radiation raises the teuiperature of the ambient atmosphere, and lowers 
it under the effects of the nocturnal radiation, must we not infer that 
the stratum of air which has been heated gives rise during the night to 
a double current ; an ui)per one of warm air and a lower one of cool air 
which descends toward the ground? It may be that the warm air, 
being driven by lateral currents, has a tendency to ameliorate the tem- 
perature of surrounding i)arts. 

Under the tropics, and especially under the equator, where the solar 
rays act with the more force as they are less inclined, trees must pro- 



408 FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 

(luce in a high degree the effects indicated above ; effects wliicli tlie 
neighboring strata of air cannot fail to manifest. On the other hand, 
the nocturnal radiation, which is very great under a sky almost without 
clouds, must act powerfully in hastening the refrigeration of the leaves. 

The following fact is, to a certain point, referable to the heat which 
woods emit when they have been warmed by solar radiation. Every 
one Ivuows that at noon of a hot summer day the air in dense woods is 
almost of a stifling heat. It is usual to attribute this effect to the 
absence of currents of air, and that, to a certain extent, may bo true; 
but a concurrent cause of no little efficiency is the fact that, when the 
leaves and branches of trees have for some time been exposed to the 
calorific action of the sun's rays, they themselves become foci of heat. 

T\"e have thus explained the sort of influence exerted by trees on the 
temperature of the air which surrounds the trunk and branches; yet we 
cannot confidently deduce the conclusion that the mean temperature of 
the place is further ameliorated by this state of things. To aid us in 
solving this question, it is necessary to consult the observations of tem- 
perature made in wooded and unwooded places, situated under the same 
latitude, having the same geological conditions, and at the same height 
above the level of the sea. 

Jefferson, in a work translated (1780) by the Abbe Morellet, drew, 
from observations made at Williamsburg and Monticello, (Virginia,) the 
conclusion that, since the clearing away of the forest, a very sensible 
change had taken i^lace in the climate; the heat, as well as the cold, 
had become less vehement than before, as was testified by persons of 
no very advanced age. The snows, he says, are less frequent and less 
abundant, often not remaining in the valleys more than two or three 
days, and very rarelj' a week, while, within the memory of the living, 
they are known to have been frequent, deep and durable. Hy old per- 
sons it is stated that the ground was covered with snow three months 
in the year, and that rivers, which now freeze very rarely, were usually 
congealed every winter. These assertions, it will be seen, are based on 
testimony against which we must be on our guard, for it may well be 
that years of extraordinary inclemency were taken for those of an 
average temperature. Let us turn to observations which inspire more 
confidence, such as those discussed by M. Eoussingault, and made by 
MM. Boussingault himself, Humboldt, Eoulin, Eivero, «S:c., in localities 
comprised between the 11th degree of north latitude and the 5th degree 
of south latitude, where the celestial radiation prevails, during the 
night, in all its force. 

The mean temperature, by reason of the slight variations in the 
course of the year, is immediately given by that which is presented by 
the earth, in the shade, at 3 decimetres (1 foot) below the surface. Ob- 
servations show that the temperature of the torrid zone varies from 
260.5 (SOo F.) to 280.1, (83° F.,) and that the abundance of forests and 
humidity tend to the refrigeration of the climate, while dryness and 
aridity produce contrary effects. These effects have been observed at 
different heights on the Cordilleras, where w^e find the mean tempera- 
tures of tem])erate regions. It has l3een asked whether this is the case 
in localities wooded and denuded of wood, situated beyond the tropics, 
where the mean temperatures being the same, the means of summer and 
winter are different 1 No observation has yet been made as to this point. 

Observations subsequent to the i^receding tend to show, on the con- 
trary, that disboscation on a great scale does not sensibly change the 
mean temperature. Humboldt has collated a great number of thermo- 
metric observations made at different points of Xorth America, in order 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 409 

to ascertain if tbe meau temperature liad undergoue chauges after a con- 
siderabie lapse of years. For about sixty-three years, from 1771 to 1S31, 
lie tells us, tbermometric observations bad been maintained at tbirty- 
five military posts, so that we bave far more exact ideas on tbe climate 
of Nortb America tban existed in tbe times of Jefferson, Barton and 
Volney. 

Tbese stations were distributed over a space of 40° of longitude and 
extended from tbe point of Florida and Thompson's Island, under 24° 
35' of latitude, to Council Bluft's, on tbe Missouri. On discussing tbe 
observations communicated to bim, Humboldt arrives at tbe following 
conclusions: 

Tbese observations, be says, tend to demonstrate, contrary to an 
opinion quite generally adopted, that, since tbe first estaljlisliuient of 
Europeans in Pennsylvania and Virginia, tbe climate, on either side of 
the Alleghanies, has not, in consequence of tbe destruction of numbers 
of forests, become more uniform, more mild in winter and cool in sum- 
mer, tban it was before; nevertheless, as Humboldt himself acknowl- 
edges, denudation ought to ameliorate the mean temperature by effect- 
ing the disappearance of three frigoritic causes ; first, the protection of 
the ground from tbe solar radiation and the maintenance of a greater 
humidity; secondly, the production of aqueous transpiration by tbe 
leaves; thirdly, the multiplication by tbe expanded branches of the 
surfaces which are cooled through tbe eifect of nocturnal radiation. M. 
Boussingault, as we bave previously seen, has arrived at contrary con- 
clusions, indicating that tbe abundance of forests and the humidity 
thence resulting tend to render tbe climate cooler, and that dryness or 
aridity produces an opposite effect. 

It inigbt be, however, that, the mean temperature remaining the same, 
the disfribution of beat in the course of tbe year may be changed, and 
that thus the climate may have been modified ; but it will not suffice to 
invoke the authority of documents relating to cultivation at tbe present 
time, for these documents will not bear a serious examination, as we 
have shown in our treatise on climates. 

Still, it is possible that a step in advance may be made by taking into 
consideration observations which have thus far not received due atten- 
tion. The observations regarding temperature which we bave made in 
the interior of single trees and at tbe periphery of their branches show, 
as has been already said, that trees are affected like all bodies exposed 
or unexposed to solar radiation; that is to say, that they are heated or 
chilled according to their absorbent, reflecting, and conducting powers. 
Tbese observations evince, moreover, that their calorific state depends 
in great part on tbe solar action. What can we thence infer in relation 
to the influence of trees on tbe temperature of tbe air and the changes 
which that temperature undergoes as tbe effect of denudation ? These 
changes result not only from the cause of which we have been speaking, 
but further, we repeat, from the nature of the soil, according as it is dry 
or humid, calcareous, sandy, or argillaceous. Let us analyze the effects 
which may thus be produced. 

We will'first consider a wooded soil: Tbe trees, as has been just stated, 
become heated or cool ; but what results from this when tbe soil is dry 
and when it is humid ? If the former, it will be without influence ; if it 
is humid, the evaporation of water will maintain a constant humidity, 
the degree of which will de])end on tbe temperature v^'hich the trees have 
acquired and which will be independent of that resulting from the exu- 
dation by tbe leaves. Tbe humidity caused by trees, when other things 
are equal, will be greater in wooded countries with an argillaceous 



410 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 



fonntlation which retains the water, because the roots do not pierce the 
subsoil or do so with difficulty, than in sandy formations which favor 
the infiltration of water. In the latter case, the humidity proceeds 
solely from the transpiration of the leaves. 

What occurs when a country is cleared of its woods, supposing the 
soil either i)ervious or im])ervious? The effects which result depend on 
the composition of the soil and on its absorbent, radiating, and conduct- 
ing powers. Of these an idea may be formed from the researches of 
Schubler. Commencing with the calefaction of lands exposed to the 
sun, the following are the relations which are found to exist between 
different soils : 



Design atiou of eartlis. 



Maximum temperature of the up- 
per stratum, the meau tem- 
perature of the air beiug 100°. 



Humid soil. 



Dry soil. 



Siliceous sautl, yellowish gray . 
Calcareous saud, whitish gray 

Pure gypsnm 

Poor jrellowish clay 

Fertile claj^ 

White calcareous earth 

Grayish-black humus 

Grayish-black garden mold 



Degrees. 
37.25 
37.38 
36.55 
36.75 
37.25 
36.63 
39.75 
37.50 



Degrees. 
44.75 
44. .50 
43. 62 
44.12 
44.50 
43. 60 
47. 37 
45. 25 



It will be seen that color and humidity are the causes which exert the 
greatest influence. The differences of temperature tlue to these causes 
and that of the ambient air may, for the same soil, amount to 14° or 15°. 

If we pass to the capacity of retaining heat, it will be found that all 
else being equal, the siliceous and calcareous sands, comjiared in equal 
volumes with the difl'ereut argillaceous earths, with lime finelj" commi- 
nuted, with humus, with arable and garden earths, are the soils which 
conduct heat more imperfectly. This is the reason why sandy formations, 
in summer, preserve, even during the night, an elevated temperature. 
We may conclude from this that when a sandy tract is cleared of wood 
the local temi)erature must be raised, and with the greater reason, inas- 
much as the cause of refrigeration exists no longer. After the sands come 
in succession argillaceous, arable and garden soils, and tiually humus, 
which occupies the last rank. Kepresenting by 100^ the capacity which 
calcareous sand possesses of retaining heat, the following are the ratios 
observed : 

Degrees. 

Calcareous sand 100 

Siliceous sand 95. 6 

Argillaceous earth 68. 4 

Garden soil 64. 8 

Humus 49. 



It has been further established that the capacity of retaining heat is 
proportional to the bulk of the particles. It is on this account that 
land covered with siliceous stones grows cool more slowly than siliceous 
sand, and that i)ebbly soils are better adapted for maturing the grape 
than chalky and argillaceous formations which cool rapidly. From this 



FORESTS AXD THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 411 

it appears liow important it is, in the examination of the eah^ritic effects 
resnltin«>- from disboscation, to have rciSiarcl to the ]>hysical i)roperties of 
the soil, when it is once denuded. Here probably is to be found the 
reason why the conclusions which llundjoldt has drawn from the ther- 
mometric observations made at stations in !N"orth America, no attention 
having been paid to the nature of the soil of the denuded surface, are 
not the same with those at which M. Boussiugault has arrived by taking 
that condition into consideration. 

It has been competently proved, then, that the disboscation of a soil 
formed of a siliceous, pebbly sand, must raise the mean temperature of 
the air more than any other formation, at the same time that it causes 
the disappearance of a source of humidity: while, if the soil is argilla- 
ceous, whether dry or humid, the capacity of warming the air and re- 
taining heat is, relatively to the former, in the ratio of 08.4 to 100. 
The calorific effect must be considerably less from the denudation of a 
dry formation. 

We see now in what manner we should consider the influence of disbos- 
cation on the temperature of the air. The effects, liowever, are so com- 
plex that we can only determine the resultant by the help of diurnal 
observations of temperature ; it is necessary besides to collate the max- 
imum and minimum temperatures, which play a very important i)art in 
the constitution of climates, and to have regard to the nature of the soil. 
We shall resume this question on an early occasion. 

The following illustration is of a nature to give an idea of the influ- 
ence Avhich forests may exert on the climate of a vast region. The 
presence of extensive forests in the tropical portions of the African con- 
tinent, situated under the meridians of the western part of Europe, 
would probably modify the ascending current of warm air w hich at 
present results from the heating of a sandy surface, and which descends 
upon the middle latitudes of Europe. If, in the lapse of centuries, the 
sands of the Sahara should become covered with woods, these sands 
woidd not be heated to so high a degree as at the present epoch ; con- 
sequently the winds of the south, which now mollify our climate, hav- 
ing no longer so high a temperature, w^ould render it more rigid. To be 
satisfied of this it is sufficient to consider the state of things on the 
American continent, where the tropical regions are occupied by vast 
forests, immense savannas, or great water-courses ; the descending cur- 
rents of Avarm air cannot moderate the climate of countries situated in 
the middle latitudes of North America as much as the w^arm currents 
coming from the Sahara mitigate the countries of the eastern conti- 
nent situated under the same latitudes. And here is precisely the rea- 
son why the western continent, under corresponding latitudes, is colder 
than ours, judging from the objects of culture and the course of the 
isothermal lines in each. 

Nor does it suffice- to study the calorific influence of the extirpation of 
woods upon climate; it is further necessary to inquire into the action 
which it exerts on the sources of streams, and the physical effects pro- 
duced in mountainous countries on a denuded soil, as well as those re- 
sulting from such denudation in argillaceous and humid formations. 
Another observation we will make, as not being without some inqiort- 
ance: It has been previously seen that a tree becomes warm or cool 
like an unorganized body, and that in proportion as the leaves are cooled 
at night by the effects of the nocturnal radiation, the loss of heat is 
repaired by a radiation transmitted by the trunk and branches ; this 
state of things, which has not been hitherto noticed by physicists, hin- 
ders the air from being chilled as much as if the calorific radiation oi 



412 FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 

the trees had not taken place. The influence of woods in cooling the 
air is not as great, therefore, as has been supposed. The state of the 
soil, moreover, singularly modifies that influence. 

EFFECTS OF THE CLEARING AWAY OF FORESTS ON SPRINGS AND 

WATER-COURSES. 

The effects of disboscation on the sources and quantities of living 
water which irrigate a country are of most important consideration, and 
heuce require serious attention. Tlie dilliculty in verifying these effects 
is the greater inasmuch as it is impossible to say, a priori, whether a 
forest or portion of a forest, destined to be cleared away, contributes to 
supply such or such a source, such or such a river. Springs are owing, 
in general, to the infiltrations of rain-water in a pervious formation, 
through which this water siuks until it meets with au impervious stra- 
tum, flowing over the latter when it is in an inclined position, and event- 
ually rising in streams or fountains. The water of wells has the same 
origin. Large springs are ordinarily found in mountainous regions. 

Forests also contribute to the formation of springs, not only by reason 
of the humidity which they produce, and the obstacles which they op- 
pose to the evaporation of the water which falls on the surface, but fur- 
ther because of the roots of the trees, which, by dividing the soil, render 
it more pervious and thus facilitate infiltration. A great number of 
illustrative examples have been cited, but we shall here adduce only a 
few which may be regarded as among the most remarkable. 

Strabo informs us that it was necessary to take great precautions to 
l)revent the country of Babylonia from being submerged. The Eu- 
l)hrates, which begins to swell, he tells us, at the close of spring, when the 
snows melt on the mountains of Armenia, overflows at the beginning of 
summer, and would necessarilj^ form vast accumulations of water on the 
cultivated lands were not the superflus turned aside by means of trenches 
and canals. This state of things exists no longer. M. Oppert, who 
some years ago traveled through Babylonia, reports that the volume of 
water conveyed by the Euphrates is much less than in past ages, that 
inundations no longer occur, that the canals are dr^-, the marshes ex- 
hausted by the great heats of summer, and that the country has ceased 
to be insalubrious. This retreat of the waters can only be attributed, 
as he found means to satisfy himself, to the clearing away of the forests 
on the mountains of Armenia. 

The efifecrs in question, though denied by some, are not the less in- 
contestible, as is shown by examples which I proceed to report and 
which rest upon observations worthy of entire confidence. 

De Saussure {Voyage dans les Alpes, t. ii,ch. 16) long ago pointed out 
the diminution of water in the lakes of Switzerland, especially in Lakes 
Morat, Keufchatel, and Bienne, as a consequence of the clearing away 
of the forests. Choiseul Gouflier was not able to distinguish in the Troad 
the Eiver Scamander, which was still navigable in the time of Pliny. 
Its bed is now entirely dry ; but the cedars also, which covered Mount 
Ida, whence it took its source, as well as the Simois, exist no longer. 

M. Boussingault, {Annales de CJtimie et dc Phydque, t. xiv, p. 113,) 
who studied this subject during his sojourn in Bolivia, selected as the 
subject of his observations the lakes situated in the plains or on difler- 
ent steps of the mountains. The valley of xVragua, pro^iuce of Vene- 
zuela, situated at a short distance from the coast, has a very favorable 
climate, and is of great fertility. It is closed in on every side, the rivers 
which traverse it having no issue toward the ocean ; by their union 



FORESTS AND THEIR CLBIATIC INFLUENCE. 413 

tliey form the Lake ofTacariguaor Yalenciaua, wbicli, at the time wheii 
Ilumboklt saw it, liad been undergoing for some thirty years a gradual 
desiccation, the cause of which was unknown. Oviedo, the historian of 
Venezuela in the sixteenth century, relates that the city of Xueva Va 
lencia was founded in 1555, at the distance of half a league from the 
Lake of Tacarigua, from which, when Humboldt was there in 1800, it 
was distant 2,700 toises, (3^- miles,) a proof of the retreat of the waters 
confirmed by a number of facts. According to the celebrated traveler 
just named, the diminution of the waters was directly attributable to 
the clearing away of numerous forests. 

In 1822, M. Boussingault learned of the inhabitants that the waters 
of the lake had exhibited a very sensible elevation; lands which were 
before cultivated were then submerged. It is to be noted that, for the 
term of twenty-two years previous, the valley had been the theater of 
bloody contests during the war of independence ; the population had 
been decimated, the lands had remained untdled, and the forests, which 
grow with prodigious rapidity under the tropics, had eventually occu- 
pied a great part of the country. TVe see here the influence of woods 
ou the quantity of water which flows or settles in a country, since lakes 
whicli had been exhausted by the removal of forests were again replen- 
ished by their restoration. 

M. Boussingault cites several examples which lead to the same con- 
clusion in regard to the influence exerted by great masses of wood on 
the living waters of a country. "NYe shall quote two of the most remark- 
able. In 1820, the metallifexous mountains of Marmato presented only 
some miserable cabins inhabited by negro slaves. In 1830, this state 
of things no longer existed ; there were numerous work-sliops aud a 
population of 3,000 inhabitants. It had been found necessary to level 
much wood : the denudation had proceeded but for two years, and already 
a diminution was perceptible in the volume of water available for the 
labor of the machines. Yet a pluviometer proved to M. Boussingault 
that the quantity of water which had fallen in the second year was 
greater than that which fell during the first. This fact tends to show that 
disboscation may diminish and occasion the disappearance of sources, 
though, from that circumstance, no inference is warranted of the fall of 
a less quantity of rain. The second example is derived from the table- 
lauds of Xew Grenada, at an elevation of from 2,000 to 3,000 metres, 
(G,500 to 9,800 feet,) where there is a temperature during the whole 
year of ll^ to 10°, (57^ to GIOF.) The inhabitants of the village of 
Dubate, situated near two lakes, which were united sixty years ago, 
have witnessed the gradual subsidence of the waters, insomuch that 
lands which, thirty years since, were under water are now subject to 
culture. The examination of local conditions and other investigations 
made by M. Boussingault, convinced him that this change was due to 
the disappearance of numerous forests which have been cut down. At 
the same time other lakes, such as that of Tota, at a short distance from 
Fuquene, situated in localities where the woods have been undisturbed, 
have undergone no diminution of their waters. M. Desbassyres de 
Eichemont has also discovered that there exists in the Island of Ascen- 
sion, at the foot of a mountain, a fine water source, which became dry 
in consequence of the denudation of the neighboring heights, but has 
been restored since the forest was again allowed to grow. 

To complete the documents which may serve for the elucidation of 
this question, there are still some importaut observations to be brought 
forward. M. Berghaus {Cours (V Agriculture de M. de Gasparin, t. ii, p. 
140) finds that the volume of water in the Oder and the Elbe undeiwent 



414 FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE. 

dimimitiou, from 1778 to 1835 in tlie first of tliese rivers, and from 1828 
to 1830 iu the second, and that tliis diminntiou was so sensible tliat, 
should it proceed at the same rate, it would be necessary at the lapse 
of a certain period to change the construction of boats ; here, however, 
statistical observations evince that this fact cannot be attributed to the 
extermination of the forests of the mountains. In order to exi)lain it, 
inquiry has been made whether the quantity of rain falling in the different 
parts of Europe has not undergone a corresponding (•iminution, but the 
hy])Othesis has not been sustained. In tact, since 1089, during which 
interval the quantity of rain falling at Paris has been observed, a slight 
augmentation, rather than any diminution, has been verified. Cesaris 
has recognized the same increase for the city of Milan from 1703 to the 
present epoch; and a similar result appears, in regard to Eochelle and 
the basin of the Ehone. The supposition of a diminution of rain being 
hence untenable, it has been surmised that possibly the number of rain- 
falls may have changed, a conjecture founded on the generally admitted 
fact that a great rain furnishes more water to the river courses than the 
same quantity distributed over several days with intervals of dryness. 
But the discussion of the observations has afforded no confirmation of 
this view. It has been found necessary to fall back upon the changes 
j)roduced in clinmtes by the progress of cultivation. 

It may happen, as has sometimes been the case, that concussions of 
the earth dry up the sources of streams, but this is not common. A 
great number of facts demonstrate, on the other hand, that the diminu- 
tion is often an almost immediate sequence of extensive clearings. We 
would point especially to the instance already cited of the water-courses 
of Marmato. i^or are there other examples undeserving of a passing' 
reference. The Eomans were able to bring to Orleans the waters of the 
fountain of Etuvee, which at the present time is entirely dried up. Ex- 
tensive excavations, made within a few years, have brought to light the 
foundations of Eoman constructions where no source of water any longer 
exists; a stream, moreover, to the east of Orleans, which contributed 
to the defense of the city during the siege in 1128, and which was con- 
siderable enough to turn mills, has completely disappeared. Now, on 
that side of Orleans there were great forests, which have been cleared 
away. In consequence of these clearings the wells of the city have 
continued to yield less and less water, so that the municipal adminis- 
tration has been obliged, within a few years, to incur an expense of 
300,000 francs (800,000) in order to bring potable water from the source 
of the Loiret. 

In the canton of Chatillon-sur-Loing there is a commune called Sainte- 
Genevieve-des-Bois, which would appear to have been once a tract of 
forest, but which presents to-day only small groves scattered here and 
there. A stream formerly flowed at the foot of the town where at pres- 
ent exists only its dried bed, never containing water except iu winter. 

In discussing the important question of the influence of disboscation 
on water-courses, we arrive at the following- conclusions: 1. Extensive 
clearings diminish the quantity of spring or flowing* water in a country; 
2. It cannot yet be determined whether that diminution should be attrib- 
uted to the less considerable quantity of rain which falls, or to a greater 
evaporation of the pluvial supply, or to both causes united, or to some 
new distribution of the water derived from rains; 3. The cultivation 
j)racticed in an arid and denuded country dissipates a part of the flowing 
waters; 1. In countries which have undergone no changes in cultivation 
the quantity of water in streams or from sources appears to be always 
the same; 5. Forests, while preserving such waters, economize and reg- 



FOEESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC IXFLUENCE. 415 

nlato their discliarge; G. The humidity Avhich prevails iu woods and the 
function of the roots in making- the soil more pervious, should be taken 
into consideration ; 7. The clearing- away of forests in mountainous coun- 
tries exercises an influence on the streams and springs in the lowlands, 
especially in the latter; 8. Hence the action of forests upon climate is of 
a highly complex nature. 

With the means of securing salubrity now at our disposal, there is no 
occasion for apprehending- unhealthy swamps as the result of the extir- 
pation of forests. ]Sor need it be inferred that the denudation of a 
country entails sterility. As examples, England and S[)ain nuiy be 
cited, which present, the one only 2 per 100 of wooded surface, the other 
3.17 per 100. The former has a marine climate, marked by the frequent 
prevalence of southwest winds charged with vapor to the point of satu- 
ration, which produces fogs on the least lowering of the temperature. 
Spain has not a similar climate, but its most fertile parts are those 
watered by large rivers, while the great table-lands are absolute deserts. 

From what has been said the question presents itself whether the ex- 
tirpation of a great forest in the vicinity of a fertile plain possessing 
only springs of water, might not give reason to fear the desiccation of 
these springs in whole or in part and the consequent impoverisliment of 
the country '? The denudation of an arenaceous country may lead to the 
desolation of the neighboring plains through the incursions of the sand, 
as may easily be conceived from the explanation given by M. Chevreul 
of the formation of downs in the Landes of Gascony; the sand is here 
driven by the winds nntil it encounters an obstacle, when a barrier is 
formed which arrests the discharge of the waters ; these moisten the 
base of the heap, and by capillary action en use the particles of sand to 
cohere and become tixed to the soil ; the winds remove only the upper 
part, which, being carried forward, continues to form new downs until 
the i>lain in the end is wholly overwhelmed with sand. 

A forest, interposed in the passage of a current of humid air charged 
with hurtful miasms, sometimes preserves from their influence any tract 
which is thus sheltered; while uncovered regions, as is exemplilied in the 
Pontine nuirshes, are exposed to the baleful influence. Trees, therefore, 
tend to purify an infected air by absorbing or obstructing- its pestilential 
constituents. Still another kind of action is exercised upon climate by 
the presence of forests: the trees of lofty growth which compose them 
withdraw electricity from the clouds, and thus to some extent neutralize 
the disastrous effects of storms. 

The restoration of forests upon the mountains is an operation of prime 
necessity for the preservation of the latter; its advantages result: 1st, 
from the increased facility with which the rain-waters penetrate into the 
soil and even the subsoil, being traversed by roots which promote infil- 
tration; 2d, from the effects produced by the resistance which forests 
oppose to the passage of masses of air saturated with vapors in motion, 
which promptly descend in rain on being forced upwards and compressed 
by the obstacle; 3d, from the humidity which generally prevails in the 
interior and in the vicinity of woods and which gives place to a precipi- 
tation of dew when the temperature of the air is lowered. 

Of the transformation of lands from which the forest has been re- 
moved into marshes, some striking examples may be cited, and those 
not in Asia Minor, of which mention has been made elsewhere, but in 
France itself. It is to be observed that when trees are cut down, the 
roots of course die and the soil becomes more compact. La Brenne, 
situated between the Indre and the Creuse, presents a circular surface 
of more than 200 kilometres (125 miles) in circiunference, or nearly 80,000 



416 FORESTS AND THEIR CLIMATIC INFLUENCE 

hectares, (197,080 acres.) The soil of this country, which is argilo-sili- 
ceons, rests on a substratum of impenetrable clay which resists the infil- 
tration of water; it is thickly covered with pools, to which are attributed 
the intermittent fevers prevalent throughout the district. Ten or twelve 
centuries ago it was occupied by forests interspersed with meadows, 
watered by i-unning streams and fountains, and there existed then neither 
pools nor swamps; on the contrary, it was renowned for the fertility of 
its pastures and the amenity of its climate. The disappearance of the 
forests was succeeded by collections of stagnant water wliich took i)os- 
session of the now unproductive and worthless soil, and this to sucli an 
extent that in 1714, the tract of Bouchat-en-Breune alone counted no 
less than one hundred and nine of them. (Piganiol de la Force, Descrip- 
tion de la France.) A like state of things appears in Sologne, wliich rep- 
resents a surface of 450,000 hectares, (l,ll!i,000 acres,) and which has 
become proverbial for its insalubrity. The deplorable condition in which 
we see it did not always exist. Historical documents show that a great 
part of this country was of old clothed with woods. Their extirpation 
has been succeeded by accumulations of water, fens, and the attendant 
nmlad^.es. At the present day the removal of the forest need not involve 
so calamitous a consequence, for modern ingenuity has placed at our 
disposal the means of restoring salubrity and fertility to swamps and 
moor lands of even long standing. 

The effects produced in mountains clearly evince the action of roots 
in promoting the infiltration of rain-water and the alimentation of 
sources. In a mountainous country the extirpation of forests promptly 
leads to the formation of torrents. Of this the Alps furnish numerous 
examples. When, in fact, vegetation is left to develop itself freely on 
the sides of mountains covered with the detritus of rocks from the sum- 
mit, dense forests of spruce and larch quickly occupy their flanks, and 
the interlacing roots form a net- work which binds and protects the soil. 
If clearings are inconsiderately made in the direction of the slopes the 
waters follow the course of the openings, and, carrying with them the 
vegetable deposit, rapidly excavate furrows. These furrows extend with 
time, and end by forming torrents. Nothing of this sort occurs where 
the woods have not been felled. All the eastern part of the department 
of the Hautes-Alpes presents numerous results of this kind. 

We thus see that the presence of a forest on a surface of steep inclin- 
ation counteracts the formation of torrents, while disboscation exposes 
the soil to their ravages. This effect it is easy to explain when the soil 
is once occupied by vegetation, first by the humbler plants, then by 
trees whose roots, forming a sort of feltij^g, give consistence to the 
ground at the same time that the branches and leaves break the force of 
heavy rains. The trunks, the offshoots, the brush-wood, multiply ob- 
stacles in the way of the currents which would otherwise furrow the 
earth. The etfect of vegetation, therefore, is to give more stability to 
the soil and to distribute the waters over its whole surface, so as to pre- 
vent their following the drains in a mass, as would be the case if the 
earth were denuded. The soil, being divided by the roots and covered ivltli 
a])orous humus, absorbs a part of the waters which cease to flow down 
the slopes and are conveyed by percolation to the low grounds, where 
they serve to feed streams and fountains. Such are the benefits resulting 
from the presence of forests on mountains and inclined surfaces exxjosed 
to torrential rains. 



ON METEORITES, 



exthact from a discourse, february 7, 1869, refore the society of natural 
History of Wisconsin, by Dr. Fr. Brexndecke. 



ITranslatcdfrom the German for the Smithsonian Institution.'] 

* * * As furuisliini^tlie finest exeiiiplificationsof the Widmannstiiteii 
iigures, as well as the purest and rarest kinds of siderites, may be cited 
the meteorite of Brauuau, the meteorite of Seclilsgen, the Putnam 
meteorite of Georgia, aud the Dorflinger meteorite found here in Wis- 
consin. According to the classification made by Professor Shepard, the 
last belongs to the order of the taniastic siderites, (ribbon siderites.) 
IJesides this specimen, there has been adduced by Professor Shepard 
only one example of the order in question, which was found, in 1801, at 
the Cape of Good Hope. 

In a report which, in the beginning of September, 18G8, I had the 
honor, at the instance of the Wisconsin Society of Natural History, to 
lay before it, respecting the iron meteorite found in that State, and which 
contained the results of an exploration of the locality where the meteorite 
was found, conducted by Mr. C. Uorilinger and myself, it was stated that, 
in July, 18G8, there was presented to the museum of the society, by its 
secretary, Mr. Dorflinger, a i^ece of iron of sixteen pounds weight, 
which had been found in AVashingtou County, Wisconsin, by parties 
engaged in cultivating a farm. This piece, upon scientific investiga- 
tion of its i)hysi.cal properties by Mr. Dorflinger, proved to be genuine 
meteoric iron. The surfaces ground and polished with a view to its 
examination, when treated with nitric acid, exhibited Widmannstaten. 
figures of the greatest beauty and distinctness. A qualitative chemical 
analysis, conducted by the director of the miueralogical section of the 
society. Dr. G. Bode, confirmed the discovery. The place where the 
mass of meteoric iron was found is in section 33, Washington County, 
AYisconsin, on a small farm belonging to a farmer named Louis Korb. 
In the fall of 1858, Korb,^n working his farm, struck with his plow 
against some hard object, Vhich lay about ten inches under the earth. 
The supposed stone proved to be a mass of metallic \ron of sixty-two 
pounds weight. The representation of this mass, as regards both its 
magnitude and form, lies before the society in the drawing executed 
by Mr. Dorfliuger, at the place of discovery. 

In the years immediately following that last mentioned, Korb found 
similar but smaller pieces of meteoric iron to the number of four, as 1 
am informed, within a circuit of from two to three rods from the place 
where the flrst and larger mass was lying. One of these pieces is the 
iron meteorite of sixteen pounds weight presented by Mr. Dorflinger to 
the society. A second piece I procured, in conjunction with Mr. Dorflin- 
ger, at Cedarburg, where it had been kept until then. This weighs 
seven and three-quarter pounds. A third piece we obtained from the 
l^rinting ofltice at West Bend, where it had been for several years, but 
27 s 



418 



METEORITES. 



■svitliouttbe least recoj>uition of tlie nature of the mineral by anyone either 
there or at Cedarburg. A fourth piece should have been at the Korb 
farm-liouse, but is not now to be found. The mass of sixty-two pounds 
weight has, for a short time past, been in the cabinet of natural history 
of I. A. Lapham, who succeeded in purchasing- it. 

The place where these meteorites were found, and its environs for a 
mile in circumference, form a hilly tract quite thickly covered by forest 
trees. The soil of this hilly district is a calcareous or argillaceous loam. 
Ev^erywhere in the region are to be found fragmentary angular stones, 
often several feet in diameter, and also round and smooth ones, all of 
the oldest formation, which come from the so-called azoic rocks in the 
north of Wisconsin, and which are interspersed in the quaternary dilu- 
vium. This last forms a calcareous belt, thirty-six miles wide, along the 
shore of Lake Michigan to Green Bay, and is regarded as belonging to 
the Niagara and Clinton limestone formation. 

These drift rocks (Trilmmergesfeine) often cause the cultivator great 
labor in reclaiming the laud. It is customary to see large pyramids of 
stones heaped up in the iields, w^hich the farmer has dragged together, 
with no little trouble, before he can till the soil. This is the case at 
Korb's farm to a very extraordinary degree. To the quartzose and 
granitic rocks strewed over this region, at an earlier time, and lying 
uncovered or close under the soil, it is probably to be ascribed the fact 
that the masses of meteoric iron which have been found had not to be 
withdrawn through any very deep excavations of the ground. 

As Korb, and probably many others of the vicinage, had been led by 
the finding of these iron meteorites to conjecture the existence of ricli 
treasures of iron ore within the earth, I sought the more strenuously to 
remove the disbelief in the cosmical origin of the bodies in question, 
especially as that origin liad not at the time received the incontestable 
confirmation of chemical analysis. 

Close to Korb's farm lies another on which is found, in the midst of 
a wood, a small and very deep ])ond in the moor land. Near to it is a 
ferruginous spring. On closer observation 1 found that this was nothing- 
more than water flowing from the moors, and soon becoming stag- 
nant through an overgrowth of decaying- plants — showing a slight im- 
pregnation of iron — less even than much of the Avater drunk at Mil- 
waukee. Only a few hundred steps from this, also in the forest, is a 
rather large and very deep i)ond, surrounded by a quaking and scarcely 
passable bog, some four hundred feet long and two hundred wide. The 
pond is cnUed Burus's Lake. The whole scenery makes a dreary and 
uncomfortable impression on the mind. I luive generally failed to find 
hereabouts minerals containing iron, though Iron Ridge stretches from 
Dodge County almost to the borders of Washington County. 

According to Dr. G. Bode's report, submitted to the Wisconsin Society 
of Natural History, he has taken the samples for the careful chemical 
analysis which he has executed from the piece weighing sixteen pounds. 
This piece is externally covered with a brown, almost polished coat of 
oxide of iron, imparting but slight coloration ; within, it is nearly of the 
whiteness of silver; it is very soft, but of great toughness. The so- 
called Widmannstiiten figures, characteristic of meteoric iron, admit of 
being produced with great distinctness. 

The specific weight of the mass amounts to 7.3272. One hundred 
parts contain, of iron, 89.22 per cent.; of nickle, 10.79 per cent.; of 
phosphorus, 0.09 per cent., and a trace of cobalt. 

Tlie composition of all meteoric iron masses, thus far examined, is 
very similar. Of nine different analyses, known to him, Dr. Bode states 



METEORITES 419 

tbe average contents in nickle at 10,30 per cent. The relative quantity 
of jihospliorus is, in nearly all, higher than the above. On the other 
hand, most of the iron-meteorites contain traces of other substances 
mentioned before. 

From the absence of other constituents, the meteoric iron discovered 
in Wisconsin is the purest which has been hitherto found; it is distin- 
guished for its beauty, and only one other meteoric iron mass now known 
shares in an equal degree the characteristic of its species. 



REMARKABLE FORMS OF HAILSTONES RECENTLY OBSERVED 

IN GEORGIA. 



[Extract from a letter from Staatsratli Aljicli to Cho.valicr W. von Haidinger. From 
tho Journal of tho Austrian Meteorological Society, vol. iv, p. 417.] 



I take this opportnuity of giving you a preliminary notice of two liail- 
storins, of both of which I was fortunate enough to be a witness. Tho 
phenomena were of so unusual a character that they are well worthy of 
a full and precise account. 

They took place within fourteen days of each other ; the first on the. 
27th May last, at 3 p. m., the second on the 9tli June, at G p. m. The 
localities were not far asunder, being both in the neighborhood of Tiflis, 
near Beloi Kliutsch. The morphological characters of the hailstones, 
which were very large, as much as sixty or seventy millimetres (2i inches) 
in diameter, were as remarkable as they vrcre dissimilar. On the first 
occasion they were oblate spheroids, resembling IMandarin oranges, while 
their structure seemed almost organic. On the second there was a fall 
of actual ice crystals, an occurrence which has never before been noticed, 
at least as far as I could discover from the literature within my reach. 
The stones were not mere lumps, exhibiting indistinct crystalline forms, 
but spheroidal bodies of definite crystalline structure, overgrown along 
the plane of the major axis by a series of clear crystals exhibiting vari- 
ous combinations belonging to the hexagonal system. The commonest 
forms were those which occur in calcite and specular iron. Of the for- 
mer type, by far the most abundant were combinations of the scaleu- 
ohedron, with rhombohedral faces ; crystals of fifteen to twenty millime- 
tres (f inch) in height, and corresponding thickness, prettily grouped with 
combinations of the prism and obtuse rhombohedra. The terminal plane 
was also occasionall3^ noticeable. Some which fell at the begiuning of 
the storm were flat, tabular, crystalline masses, thirty to forty millime- 
tres (li inch) in diameter, resembling the so-called " eisen-rose," which 
occurs at St. Gotthardt. 

The stones, when picked up quite fresh, showed sharp eelges, with 
faces which were for the most part slightly curved like those of diamond; 
however, those which I took to belong to the scalenohedron were per- 
fectly plane. 

I was in the open air when each of tlie storms began, and was able to 
gain shelter before I received unj injury. This was fortunate, for the 
damage done, even to large trees, was very serious. 

I reached home in a quarter of an hour, and found a pail full of the 
largest stones, which had been collected as soon as the first fright had 
passed over. My house was not much damaged. I sat down at once 
and drew ten of these remarkable forms, which had scarcely undergone 
any alteration. 

1 have often thought over our conversations about hail, and I see that 
if I now applied all the theories which have ever been broached to the 
fiicts which have come under my own notice, not a single one of them 
will give me any light toward their explanation. I would ask how such 
a regular growth of crystalline masses, reminding us in their character 



REMARKABLE FORMS OF HAILSTONES. 



421 



cf the drnsy crystals of calcite from Aiidreasberg, can be reconciled 
v.itli tlie violent atmospheric commotion which we suppose to accom- 
pany the formation of hail. We say in naturd nihil Jit per saJius, and I 
believe it. The growing- crystalline mass must have been suspended 
for a loug time in u very cold stratum of aqueous vapor before it reached 
the earth. 

[The two subjoined cuts arc copied as closely as possible from the 
original drawings.] 

I would only add, by 
way of a hint, to explain 
what cannot be shovvH by 
such imperfect drawings, 
that where the tlat S}>he- 
roidal forms, resembling 
specular iron, in the cen- 
ter of the drawing, exhibit 
shading, the crystals were 
not always opaque. The 
ring surrounding the nu- 
cleus had a milky appear- 
ance, owing to small air 
bubbles, as had the nu- 
cleus itself in most instan- 
ces. Many of them, liovr- 
ever, had a clear nucleus. 
This could easily be seen 
next morning, when the 
stones had all melted 
down to cakes of about an 
inch in diameter, occa- 
sionally taking the shape 
of a regular hexagon. 
The milky ring round the 
central point was clearly 
distinguishable as a sort 
of fibrous web com]>ose(l 
of the finest air cavities 
traversed by threadlike 
pores. In some cases tliere 

Actual rcprosontations (of the r.atnral size) of t^vo of thp hail- i-c-na Tirivino- nml flu^k -nn 
i^toiiea which f<ll in Georgia ou the 9th Juno, 1669, drawii at ^^ ''^^ ." ^^"i^' ''"^^ '•"'- ""' 
the time by Staatsrath Abich. ClcUS WaS SCmi-Opaque. 

The shading round the border of the large circle is only intended to 
mark the smooth spheroidal form of the central mass. The actual 
crystals v.'ere attached parasiticallj' to its edge, or else inserted in a 
sort of socket, as I found when the stones thawed down. (See a, Fig. 

1.) 

All the stones contained fine air pores, pear-shaped or Morm-like, 
running from the center to the circumference. The drawings are as 
near as possible natural size. 




ERUPTION OF THE VOLCANO OF COLIMA IN JUNE, 1869. 



Communicated by Dr>. Charles Sartokius. 



To the northwest of the town of Colima rise, above lower mountains, 
two lofty volcanic peaks, the more easterly, capped with snow, being 
3,790 metres (12,434 feet) in height, the more westerly, with a conspicu- 
ous crater, 3,580 metres, (11,745 feet.) The latter had an eruption in the 
year 1818, but had since remained in repose, though thin clouds of 
smoke often ascended from its summit. 

On the 12th June, 1809, a dense smoke issued from the crater and at 
night a bright light was visible at its mouth ; detonations like the dis- 
charge of distant artillery were heard, but no concussion of the earth 
took place. On the 13th there was observed from the hacienda (farm) of 
San Marcos, four leagues distant from the volcano, on its northeast si<le, 
at the foot of the steep cone, a glowing heaving {Anscliwellung) of the 
surface, which continued to increase, and displayed intensely luminous 
clefts, from which were ejected smoke and red-hot stones, extending in 
the direction of the snowy peak above mentioned. 

The civil engineer, Ricardo Orosco, ascended the volcano on the 15th 
of June, accompanied by two servants and a guide. At G o'clock in the 
morning he left San Marco's, and reached at 12 o'clock a plain at the 
foot of the steep cone, where he left the horses. A heavy storm Avas 
prevailing, the temperature of the air being 10° Reaumur, (55° F.) On 
a second small plain upon the northeast side of the mountain was the 
new upheaval, which ascended to the scarp of the cone and stretched 
in the direction of the snowy peak, the latter being 4,500 metres (2f 
miles) distant. The upheaval in question seemed to be some 35 metres 
(114 feet) high and 230 metres (754 feet) broad, forming a flattened arch. 
The appearance was that of a wild mass of volcanic, red-hot rocks 
heaped one upon another and constantly in motion, not unlike freshly 
burnt lime when sjirinkled with water. The rocks which rolled down 
were, on cooling, of a gray color. A piece broken oft' rang like glass 
and Avas vitreous and porous. In the middle of the upheaved mass the 
movement was strongest; there large clefts and intense light were dis- 
played, while engulfed stones, which were swallowed up in great masses, 
were followed b^' a noise as of violent wind and by clouds of smoke, 
sometimes blue, sometimes yellow. The temperature of the air in the 
vicinity was 42° R., (120° F.) The stones in the midst of the heaving 
mass seemed to be softened, though not melted, and no flow of lava 
took place. Orosco ascended the cone in order to observe the i^henome- 
non from above. This cone is very steep, and consists of sand and \o\- 
canic rubble. The temperature on the summit, Avhich was reached at 
2 o'clock p. m., was found to be 4° li., (41° F.) From hence the whole 
of the new upheaval could be surveyed. In the middle of it the most 
vehement movement was in progress, attended by the constant upheav- 
ing and descent of rocky masses, fire, and blue and yellow columns of 
smoke. 

Th(i upper (ancient) crater has a diameter of 150 metres, (492 feet,) 



ERUPTION OF THE VOLCANO OF COLIMA, 423 

descends in a cone-like form, and shows around its circumference many 
tissures and rifts. From the center and walls arose a dense sulphurous 
vapor. The gases from the new theater of eruption had a smell Ml^e 
that of burning- stone-coal. 

The descent was very toilsome on account of the rolling stones. At 
u.oO p. m. the horses were reached, and at 0,30 the luicienda of San 
]\Iarcos, where many were waiting to learn the result of the expedition. 
The report of Orosco was, that the district was threatened Avith n(> dan- 
ger, as no lava was issuing, and the tissures being open giive no reason 
to fear any explosion from the tension of conlined vapors. Later ex- 
plorers of th(^ volcano found a iissure from the new upheaval to the nj)- 
])er peak, one to three feet wide and about three feet in de]>th, but 
neither heat nor vapor issuing- from it. The latest reports inform us 
that the same phenomena in general continue to present themselves, but 
that such volumes of fetid gases issue from the Iissure, that the inhabi- 
tants of the district were forced to leave their abodes. Cows and 
sheep were killed thereby, so that it was found necessary to drive away 
the herds from the neigliborhood of the volcano. 



CONTENTS OF THE REPORT FOR 1869. 



ra,Te. 

Kcsolntion of Congress to print tLc report '2 

Letter from the Secretary submitting report to Congress '.i 

List of Regents and members ex officio of the Institution T) 

Executive officers of the Institution (i 

Programme of organization 7 

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 1:5 

Finances l:] 

Cooperation with Government Departments 1.') 

Publications 1(> 

International exchanges 21 

Librarv 23 

Gallery of Art 25 

Museum t 23 

Lectures 2S 

Explorations and collections in natural history 29 

Explorations and collections in ethnology 31 

Meteorologv 47 

APPENDIX TO JREPORT OF THE SECRETARY 52 

Entries in Museum record books C.2 

Distribution of duplicate specimens -2 

Additions to the collections r>3 

Statistics of literary and scientific exchanges 59 

-^-- Packages sent from America for foreign societies 00 

Packages received from foreign societies C2 

List of meteorological stations and observers 09 

Colleges and institutions furnishing meteorological observations 78 

Meteorological material received in 1869 79 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 85 

Receipts in 1869 85 

Expenditures in 1869 80 

Estimates and approjiriations for 1870 '. 87 

Examination of accounts 87 

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 88 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Kepler : his life and -works. By M. Berthrand ■. 93 

Eulogy ox Thomas Y^oung. By M. Arago Ill 

Memoir of Auguste Bravais. Bv M. Eiie de Beaumont 145 

3IEMOIR OF C. F. P. Vox Martius'. By Chas. Ran 169 

Life .vxd Scientific Labors of Stefaxo Mariaxixl By C. Matteucci 179 

Chemistry of the Earth. By T. Sterry Hunt 182 

Electrical Cuiirexts op the' Earth. By C. Matteucci £08 

Piiexomexa of Flight ix the Aximal Kixgdom. By M. Marey 226 

The Northerx Seas. By M. Babinet 283 

Report ox the Traxsactioxs of the Society of Physics axd of Natural 

History of Geneva, .June, 1868, to June, 1869. By Dr. H. C. Lombard 297 

CoROXADO's March in search of tiie"Sevex Cities of Cii;ola"and Dis- 
cussion of their Probable Locatiox. By General J. H. Simpson, U. S. A. 309 
Social axd Religious Coxditiox of the Lower Races of Max. By Sir 

John Lubbock ' 341 

Principles and ]\Iethods of PALiEONTOLOCY. By T. H. Huxley 363 

Remarks on the " Cara Gig.vxtesca" of Y'zamal, ix Y'ucatax. By Dr. Arthur 

Schott 389 

FoRi'.STS AND THEIR Cli:matic Ixfluexce. By M. Becquerel 394 

Mr.Tr.oRiTES. By Dr. Fr. Brenndecke 417 

Rkmarkable Forms of Hail-Stones ix Georgia. By S. Abich 420 

Eruption of the Volc. xo of Colima. By C. Sartorius 422 



426 CONTENTS. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

Pago. 
Pliouomeua of flight iu the animal kingcTom : 

Fig. 1. Tracings of wing-strokes of a drone and of a bee 235 

Fig. 2. Tracings of wing of a drone 235 

' Fig. 3. Tracings of wing of a wasp iu short flight 237 

Fig. 4. Aspect of a wasp 238 

Fig. 5. Tracing of wing of Macroglossa galiuni, (Bedstraw sphyns-moth) 240 

Fig. G. Trace of a Wheatstone's octavo rod 240 

Fig. 7. Tracing of wing of a wasp 241 

Fig. 8. Kepresentiug the artificial insect, or scheme of flight of insects 245 

Fig. 9. Eflect of heat on muscular contractiou 252 

Fig. 10. Skeleton of the wing and stcruum of a frigate-bird 254 

Fig. 11. Skeleton of a flamingo. 255 

Fig. 12. Skeleton of a penguin 256 

Fig. 13. Pline's apparatus 258 

Fig. 14. " " 258 

Fig. 15. " " 259 

Fig. 16. Apparatus for registering the motion of the wing of a pigeon 263 

Fig. 17. Apparatus for exhibiting the contraction of the thoracic muscles of birds 266 

Fig. 18. Myographic tracings of the pectorals 267 

Fig. 19. Electric tracing of ascent and descent of wing of the harrier 267 

Fig. 20. Difference in amplitude and frequency in wing-strokes of a pigeon 269 

Fig. 21. Tracings to express swelling of the biceps muscle 270 

Fig. 22. Trace of the action of a harrier during flight 271 

Fig. 23. Apparatus to transmit motions to a lever at a distance 273 

Fig. 24. Elastic point tracing upon smoked glass 274 

Fig. 25. Harrier flying with apparatus 275 

Fig. 26. Reprcsenl ing course of the point of the wing 276 

Fig. 27. Ellipse traced by a wheatstone's rod 277 

Fig. 28. Course iu space of the extremity of the wing 277 

Fig. 29. Apparatus for transmitting oscillations 280 

Fig. 30. Chronographic trace of a tuning-forlc, &c 282 

Fig. 31. Oscillations of the wing of a duck, harrier, &c 283 

Fig. 32. Oscillations of the wing of a harrier 282 

Remarkable hail-stones iu Georgia : 

Fig. 1. Natural size vepvesentation of hail-stone 421 

Fig. 2. Natural size representations of luiil-stone 421 



INDEX. 



Page. 

AWch, S., account of remarkable liail-stoues 420 

Acconut.s, examination of ^7 

Agents of the Smitlisouian exchanges 23 

Agricnltnral Department, cooperation ^Yitll 2G, "27 

Alabama, collections from 43 

Alaska, collections from ;^',2 

Aleutian Islands, collections from :]3 

Alexander, Colonel C. A., death. of, and resolutions relative to S8 

tr.anslatious by 93, 145 

Antiquities of Yucatan 2^Q 

Appendix, general 91 

Appropriations IVom Congress 15 

Appropriations for the year 1870 87 

Arago, eulogy on Thomas Young Ill 

Arizona, collections from 40 

Arkansas, collections from 41 

Army Medical Museum, cooperation "with 26, 27 

Art Gallery of Mr. Corcoran 2'> 

Babinet, Northern Seas 2c^G 

Bache, Professor A. D., eulogy on, accepted , 83 

Baird, Spencer F., assistant secretarj' in charge of museum, exchanges, &c 5 

explorations by 31 

Bannister, Henry M., clerk in charge of meteorology 5 

Barbadoes, collections from 45 

Becqnerel, M., on forests and their climatic inHueuco 394 

Berf brand, M., life and Avorks of Kepler 93 

Binney, W. (}., land and fresh-water shells 17 

Birds,'tlight of 247 

Bischoff, F., collections by 2t) 

Bland, Thomas, land and fresh-water .shells 17 

Bowen, Hon. S. J., acts of, as liegent HO 

Bravais, Auguste, memoir of, by Elie de Beaumont 14;> 

Brenndecke, F., on meteorites 4IT 

Brewer, Dr. T. M., Oology 16 

British Guiana, collections from 46 

Brown, Solomon G., clerk in charge of trausportatioii o 

California, collections from 36 

Canada, collections from 44 

Canal, report to be prepared relative to 83 

Capron, General H., botanical arrangements by 27 

Cara Gigantcsca of Yzamal, in Yucatan C^O 

Central America, collections from 46 

Cba.se, Chief Justice S. P., acts of, as Eegeu t 88, 89 

Chemistry of the earth. By T. Sterry Hunt 182 

Cibola, seven cities of, discussion of location of 309 

Cleveland, P., meteorological observations 16 

Climate and forests 394 

Coffin, J. H., meteoric tire-ball , 16 

meteorologieal iuvestigatious , 47 

Colima, account of volcano of 422 

Collections in natural history 29 

Collections, list of additions to ij'.i 

Colorado, collections from 39 

Congress, orders to print extra copies of ri'port , . 3 

report submitted to 3 

Corcoran, W. W., Art Gallery of 25 

Coronado's march in search of the •' seven cities of Cil;ola." By General Simpson. 309 

Cox, Hon. S. S., acts of, as Regent 88 

Dakota, collections from 3G 

Dall, W. H., collections by 29, 32 



428 INDEX. 

Page. 

Davis, Hon. Garret, acts of, as Eegcnt i-jD 

Deau, G. W., observations by 20 

Dean, John, medulla oblongata IG 

Do Beaumont, memoir of JJravais, by 145 

Delafield, General Richard, acts of, as Regent 88, ^^'J 

repoi't of executive committee >7 

District of Columbia, collections from 4)3 

Documents, exchange of, Avith foreign nations 23 

Donations to library 24 

Duplicates, distribution of 52 

Electrical currents of the earth 208 

Electro-metrical experiments of JMarianini 1/9 

Estimates and api)ropriations for 1870 87 

Ethnology, collections in 41 

Exchanges, account of sj'stem of 21 

Exchanges, statistics of 5'J, GO, 62 

Executive committee, report of H5 

Executive officers of the Inst itution 5 

Expenditures of the Institution in 1869 ^ 8(> 

Explorations, account of 29 

Fesseuden, Hon. W. P., death of and resolutiona relative to 89 

eulogy on, to bo prepared by Chief .lu.stice Chase 89 

Finances, account of l:{ 

Financial condition of Smithsonian Institutio;i 85 

Flight in the animal kingdom, phenomena of 2i!) 

Florida, collections from 42 

Foreign correspondents of the Institution 17 

Foreman, Dr., ethnological inventory :j 1 

Forests and their climatic inlluence 394 

France, collections from 4(i 

Garfield, Hoii. J. A., acts of, as Regent 89 

Geology, chemical 182 

Georgia, collections from , 42 

remarkable hail-stones in 420 

Gliddou mummy case 17 

Goodfellow, E., observations by 20 

Gould, B. A., transatlantic longitude IG, 19 

Government Departments, cooperation with 15 

Grayson, A. J., explorations by 30 

Hail-stones, remarkable. Account of, by S. Abieh 420 

Hamlin, Hon. H., acts of, as Regent 88, 89, 90 

Hayden, Dr. F. V., explorations by oO 

Heights of meteorological stations G9 

Henry, Joseph, director of the Institution 5 

letter to Congress 3 

report for 18G9 13 

resolution of Regents authorizing visit to Europe 89 

Herbarium, account of 28 

Herron, Joseph, janitor of the Museum 5 

Hildretli, S. P., meteorological observations 1(5 

Hudson's Bay Company, explorations by 31 

Hunt, T. Sterry, chemistry of the earth 182 

list of papers by, on chemical geology 182 

Huxley, T. H., principles and methods of paheontology 3Gj 

Idaho, collections from 35 

Illinois, collections from 40 

Index of scientific papers 25 

Indian.a, collections from 40 

Indians of Cape Flattery. By Swan 18 

Indians, photographic portraits of 17 

Insects, llight of 230 

Institution, members ex oflicio of 4 

Insurance of east wing and range authorized 88 

Journal of tlie Board of Regents 88 

Kansas, collections from 38 

Kentucky, collections from 41 

Kepler, John, his life and works. By M. Berthrand 93 

King, Clarence, explorations by 29, 33 

Lartet, E., collections from 46 



INDEX. 429 

rage. 

Latitude of meteorological stations 69 

Lc>ctnres, aid granted to 23 

Lectures on flight in the animal kingdom 226 

Loech, Daniel, clerk in charge of correspondence 5 

Library, statistics of 23 

Lombard, Dr. H. C, report of Geneva Society 297 

Longitude of meteorological stations 69 

Longitude, transatlantic 19 

Louisiana, collections from 41 

Lubbock, Sir John, social and religious condition of lower races of man 341 

Maclean, Eev. Dr. John, acts of, as Regent 88, 89 

Maclean, John, rejiort of executive committee • 87 

Man, social and religious condition of lower races of. By Sir John Lubbock. .. 341 

Maryland, collections from 43 

Matteucci, Carlo, life of S. Marianini 179 

on electrical currents of the earth 208 

Marey, M., phenomena of flight in the auimal kingdom 226 

Mariauini, Stefano, life and scientific labors of 179 

Martins, C. F. P. von, memoir of, by Chas. Ran 1G9 

Meteorites. By Dr. Brenudecko 417 

Meteorological material received in 1869 79 

Meteorological stations and observers in 1889 69 

Meteorology, account of s^-stem 47 

Mexico, collections from 4.5 

Mississippi, collections from 41 

Morgan, L. H., systems of consanguinity 16 

Mosman, A. T., observations by 20 

Mummy case, description of 18 

Museum, account of operations in 26 

additions to in ] 869 53 

Astribution of duplicate specimens 52 

entries in record books 52 

Myer, General, meteorologic-al system 51 

National Academy of Sciences 19 

Natural history, directions 17 

Natural history, Geneva society, transactions 297 

Nebraska, collections from 38 

Nevada, collections from 36 

New Brunswick, collections from 44 

New England, collections from 44 

New Jersey, collections from 43 

New ilexico, collections from 39 

New York, collections from 44 

North Carolina, collections from 43 

Northern seas 28(5 

Ohio, collections from 41 

Oregon, collections from 35 

Pakcontology, principles and methods of, by T. H. Huxlej- 363 

Parker, Hon. Peter, acts of, as Regent S8, 89 

report of executive committee 87 

Parry, Dr. C. C, arrangement of herbarium by 28 

Pennsylvania, collections from 43 

Pliotographic portraits of North American Indians 17 

Physics, Geneva society, transactions 297 

Pickering, Dr. C, Gliddon nmmmv case 16, 17 

Poland, Hon. L. P., acts of, as Regent 88, 89 

Polynesia, collections from 47 

Porto Rico, collections from 45 

Printing, resolution of Congress ' 2 

Programme of organization of the Smithsonian Iiistitntioa 6 

Publications of the Institution 16 

Races of man, condition of 341 

Rain, laws of distribution 48 

Rain-fall, tables, charts, &e 48 

Ran, Chas, memoir of C. F. P. Von Martins 169 

Receipts and expenses of the Institution in 1839 85 

Regents of the iuotitntioii, list of 4 

Regents, journal of the board 88 

Relationship among ditferent nations 17 



430 INDEX. 

Page. 

Report, couteuts of, for 1868 21 

Report of the executive committee 85 

Resolution of Congress ordering extra copies of report 2 

Resolutions of Board of Regents — 

on death of Charles A. Alexander 88 

acceptance of report of executive committee 83 

directing insurance on east wing 88 

eulogy on Professor Bacho, to bo printed in report 88 

on death of Hon. William P. Fesseuden , 89 

requesting Chief Justice Chase to prepare eulogy on Mr. Fcssendeu 89 

authorizing Professor Henry to visit Europe 89 

allowance for extra services 89 

accepting annual report of the Secretary 89 

detailed statement of expenses of museum to be made by executive 

committee and Secretary 89, 90 

relative to Mr. Rhees, chief clerk 89, 90 

Ehees, William J., chief clerk 5,89,90 

Sartorius, Dr. C, account of eruption of volcano of Colima 422 

Schott, C. A., me':eorological investigations 47 

Shells, manual of 17 

Signal Corps, meteorological system 51 

Simpson, GeneralJ. H., discussion of location of "seven cities of Cibola" 309 

Smithson, will of G 

Sumichrast, Dr. F., explorations by 30 

Swan, J. G., Indians of Cape Flattery IG, 18 

Tables, meteorological and i»hysical 17 

Telegraphic determination of longitude 19 

Telegraphic indications of weather 50 

Telegraphing by Atlantic cable, method of 20 

Tennessee, collections from . . 41 

Texas, collections from 42 

Thomas, General G. H., collections by 29 

Transactions of Geneva Society of Physics and Natural History 297 

Transportation facilities granted 22 

Trumbull, Hon. L., acts of, as Regent 88, 89 

Turner, Jane A., clerk in charge of records of exchanges , 5 

Utah, collections from 35 

Virginia, collections from 42 

Volcano of Colima, eruption of 422 

Von Martins, C. F. P., memoir of 1G9 

Washington Territory, collections from _ 35 

Weather predictions 50 

Wisconsin, collections from 40 

Young, Thomas, eulogy on, by Arago ill 

Yucatan, ancient relics in 389 



