i.iu<w<ww/i-«*'<«i»«» T » U i n iw»»wJ6WVWW 



5WARTHMORE COLLEGE | 



l^im^lIEi 



9 






•on 

CLASS. ' BOOK. ^^ 




I 



^ 



r4/V^ 



/■/ 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THK 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



TO 



JULY, 1885 



PART I 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
1S8G. 




Forty-ninth Congress, First Session. 

The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate, and concurred in by the 
House of Representatives, July 17, 1886 : 

lienolved hy the Senate (the House of Bepresentatives concurring therein), That there be 
printed of the last annual reports of the Smithsonian Institution and of the National 
Museum, in two octavo volumes, sixteen tliousand extra copies of each, of which three 
thousand copies shall be for the use of the Senate, six thousand copies for the use of 
the House of Representatives, and seven thousand copies for the use of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 
II 



LETTER 



FROM THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



ACCOMPANYING 



The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution to the end of 

June, 1885. 



July 17, 1S86.— Ordered to be printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, D. C, January 15, 1886. 
To the Congress of the United States : 

Id accordance with section 5593 of tlie Eevised Statutes of the United 
States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, to submit 
to Congress the annual report of the operations, expenditures, and con- 
dition of the Smithsonian Institution to July, 1885. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baied, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. John Sherman, 

President of the Senate, pro tern. 
Hon. John G. Carlisle, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

m 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO THE 

END OF JUNE, 1885. 



SUBJECTS. 



1. Proceediugs of the Board of Eegents for the session of January, 
1885. 

2. Eeportof the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial aflFairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, and re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1885 (to July 1). 

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations 
and condition of the Institution for the year 1885 (to July 1), with the 
statistics of collections, exchanges, &c. 

4. General apjiendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the 
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and 
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti- 
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 



The report of the Assistant Director and Curators of the National 
Museum for the year 1885 (to July 1), 'will be published in a separate 
volume. 



vr 



Q^"^ CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the Eeport ii 

Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of th6 Regents to 

Congress iii 

General subjects of the Annual Report iv 

Contents of the Report - v 

List of illustrations v i i i 

Members ex o^cio of the Establishment ix 

Oflicers of the Smithsonian Institution is 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution x 

JouRXAL OF Proceedings op the Board of Regents xi 

•Report of the Executive Committee for the first six months of 1885 xv 

Condition of the funds July 1, 1885 xv 

Receipts for the six months xv 

Expenditures for the six months xvi 

National Museum appropriations by Congress xvi 

Appropriations for Exchanges xvii 

Appropriations for Ethnology xvii 



REPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

The Smithsonian Institution 1 

Introductory 1 

The Board of Regents 1 

Expiration of terms of Congfessional Regents 2 

Change in the time of printing the Report 3 

Finances 3 

Condition of the fund July 1, 1885 4 

Buildings 5 

Smithsonian building 5 

Armory building 5 

Brick workshop and temporary workshop 6 

Army Medical Museum building 6 

Necessity of new buildings for the National Museum 7 

P^xplorations 7 

Greenland, Labrador, and British Provinces 7 

Alaska, Washington Territory, and west coast of United States 8 

East coast of the United States and Gulf of Mexico 8 

New Mexico and Arizona 9 

Central and South America ^ 

Europe 9 

V 



VI CONTENTS. 

Paget 
Report of the Secretary.— The Smithsonian Institution— Continued. 

Publications 1^ 

Distribution of publications 10 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 11 

Volumes XXIV and XXV issued 11 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 12 

Guyot's Meteorological and Physical Tables 12 

Scientific writings of Joseph Henry 14 

Bulletins of the National Museum 14 

Proceedings of the National Museum 15 

Volume VII issued 16 

Smithsonian Annual Report for 1883 17 

Publications of the Bureau of Ethnology 17 

International exchanges 18 

Transportation companies 19 

Government exchanges 20 

Library 21 

Additions for the first six months of the year 21 

Co-operative relations of the Smithsonian Institution 22 

Bureau of Education 22 

The London Diplomatic Review - - 22 

Newfoundland postage on exchanges '23 

Zoological specimens for Museum from menageries 24 

Necrology 24 

Dr. Edward Foreman 24 

Miscellaneous. -.- 24 

The Tyndall Trust Fund 24 

United States National Museum 26 

Arrangement of material 26 

Museum publications 27 

Meetings and lectures in Museum Hall 28 

Organization of Museum Departments 29 

Department of Arts and Industries 29 

Department of Ethnology 32 

Department of Antiquities 32 

Department of Mammals ^ 33 

Department of Birds 34 

Department of Fishes 35 

Department of Comparative Anatomy 36 

Department of Mollusks 36 

Department of Insects , 37 

Department of Marine Invertebrates 39 

Departments of Invertebrate Fossils , 40 

Department of Fossil and Recent Plants 40 

Departments of Minerals, and of Lithology, «&c 42 

Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology 43 ' 



Bureau of Ethnology 4'. 

United States Geological Survey 45 

United States Fish Commission 45 



CONTENTS. VII 

Page. 

Appendix to the Eepokt ok the Secretary 47 

Report ou exchanges to Juue 30, 1885 47 

Correspoudeuce relative to foreign exchanges 52 

Receipts of packages for distribution 64 

F'oreign 64 

Domestic 65 

Government 65 

Transmissions of packages 66 

Foreign 66 

Domestic 67 

Government 68 

List of foreign correspondents 69 

List of institutions in the U. S. receiving Smithsonian publications. .. 259 

Circular relative to Mathematical Prize 331 

Acts and Resolutions of Congress relative to Smithsonian Institution, &c. 335 



GENERAL APPENDIX. 

I. — Record of Scientific Progress, 1884 341 

Introduction, by Spencer F. Baird 341 

Astronomy, by William C Winlock 343 

List of Astronomical Observatories, by George H. Boehmer 457 

Vnlcanology and Seismology, by Charles G. Rockwood 471 

Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes in Iceland within historic times. .. 495 

Geography, by J. King Goodrich 543 

Physics, by George F. Barker 577 

Chemistry, by H. Carriugton Bolton 637 

Mineralogy, by Edward S. Dana 687 

Bibliography of Invertebrate Palaeontology, by J. B. Marcou 713 

Zoology, by Theodore Gill 761 

Anthropology, by Otis T. Mason 815 

II. — Miscellaneous Papers 871 

Papers relating to Anthropology 871 

Observations ou Stone-chipping, by George E. Sellers 871 

Copi)er implements from Bayfield, Wis., by Charles Whittlesey 892 

Ancient Riimains in Ohio, by J. P. MacLeau 893 

A primitive store-house of the Creek ludiaus, by Charles C. Jones, jr. 900 

Shell heaps and mounds in Florida, by James Shepard 902 

Ancient earthworks in China, by Mark Williams 907 

Plan for American Ethnological Investigation, by the late Henry R. 

Schoolcraft 907 

Index to the Literature of Uranium, by H. Carrington Bolton 915 

Price-list of the Publications of the Smithsonian Institution 947 



Index to the volume „ 973 



VIIT CONTENTS. 

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Observations on stone chipping — Page. 

Fig. 1. A chipping tool ^74 

Fig. 2. A larger chipping tool 875 

Figs. 3, 4, and .'3. Views of a stone flake B78 

Fig. 6. Block for supporting stone flake 882 

Fig. 7. Notched tree for holding chipping lever 883 

Fig. 8. Chipped arrow-head 884 

Fig. 9. Smaller chipped arrow-head 885 

Figs. 10-12. Chipped spear-heads 885 

Copper implements from Bayfield, Wis. — 

Fig. 1. Curved spade-like implement of copper 892 

Fig. 2. Copper knife-blado 892 

Fig. 3. Crescent-shaped cutting tool of copper 893 

Ancient remains in Ohio — 

Plan 1 . Diagram of annular mounds near Winchester 893 

Plan 2. Map of niounds in Eagle Township 895 

Plan 3. Map of stone and earthworks in Concord Township 897 

Plan 4. Map of annular mounds in Harmony Township 899 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE "ESTABLISHMENT." 

(January, IbSii.) 



GROVER CLEVELAND, Presideut of the United States. 
JOHN SHERMAN, President of tlie United States Senate. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Jnstice of the United States. 
THOMAS F. BAYARD, Secretary of State. 
DANIEL MANNING, Secretary of the Treasnry. 
WILLIAM C. ENDICOTT, Secretary of War. 
WILLIAM C. WPilTNEY, Secretary of the Navy. 
WILLIAM F. VILAS, Postmaster-General. 
LUCIUS Q. C. LAMAR, Secretary of the Interior. 
AUGUSTUS H. GARLAND, Attorney-General. 
MARTIN V. MONTGOMERY, Commissioner of Patents. 



REGEIIfTS OF THE I:N^ST1TUTI0N. 

(Full list given on the following page.) 



OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary, 
Director of the Institution, and of the U. S. National Museum. 

William J. Rhkes, Chief Cleric. 

Daniel Leech, Corresponding Clerk. 



REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846, (Revised Statutes, 
title Lxxiii, section 5580,) "The business of the Institution shall be con- 
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named the 
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vice- 
President, the Chief Justice of the United States [and the Governor of 
ihe District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and three mem- 
bers of the House of Representatives, together with six other persons, 
other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the 
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some 
State, but no two of the same State." 



REGENTS FOB THE YEAR 1885. 

Term expires. 
The Vice-President of the United States : 

.JOHN SHERMAN (elected President of Senate Dec. 7, 188.^). 

Tlie Chief Justice of the United States: 
MORRISON R. WAITE. 

United States Senators : 

SAMUEL B. MAXEY (appointed May 19, 1881) Mar. 3, 1887 

.JUSTIN S. MORRILL (appointed February 21, 1883) Mar. 3,1891 

SHELBY M. CULLOM (appointed March 23. 1885) Mar. 3, 1889 

Members of the House of Representatives : 

OTHO R. SINGLETON (appointed January 7, 1884) Dec. 23, 1885 

WILLIAM L. WILSON (appointed January 7, 1884) Dec. 23, 1885 

WILLIAM W. PHELPS (appointed January 7, 1884) Dec. 23, 1885 

Citizens of Washington : 

JAMES C. WELLING (appointed May 13, 1884) May 13,1890 

MONTGOMERY C. MEIGS (appointed Dec. 2(3, 1885) Dec. 26, 1891 

Citizens of a State : 

JOHN MACLEAN, of New Jersey (first appointed in 1868) Dec. 26, 1891 

ASA Gray, of Massachusetts (first appointed in 1874) Doc. 26, 1891 

HENRY COPPEE, of Pennsylvania (first appointed in 1874) Dec. 26, 1891 

NOAH PORTER, of Connecticut (appointed in 1878) Mar. 3, 1890 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of 

Regents. 



Executive Committee of the Board of Regents 
John Maclean. J Ames C. Wk:,i.ing. Henry Copp6e. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, D. C, January 21, 1885. 

The annual meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution was held this day at half past 10 o'clock a. m. 

Present: Hon. G. F. Edmunds, Hon. J. S. Morrill, Hon. S. B. 
Maxet, Hon. O. R. Singleton, Hon. W. L. Wilson, Hon. W. W. 
Phelps, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Rev. Dr. Koah Porter, Dr. 
Henry Copp:6e, Dr. James C. Welling, and the Secretary, Professor 
Baird. 

Excuses for non-attendance were read from Chief- Justice Waite, 
Prof. Asa Gray, and Hon. N. P. Hill. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, on motion of Mr. Phelps, Dr. Por- 
ter was called to the chair. 

The journal of the Board was read and approved. 

The Secretary stated that the Rev. Dr. Noah Porter had been 
re-elected a Regent for six years by the joint resolution of Congress, 
ap]3roved March 3, 1884. 

The Secretary presented to the Board the following letter : 

Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Dear Sir : The state of my health renders it necessary to tender my 
resignation as a member of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

In signifying my resignation it is with no ordinary feelings I recall 
the years I have been connected with the Board and the distinguished 
men with whom it has been my privilege and honor to be associated. 
Not only the present members whom I so highly respect and esteem, 
but a long list of honored names of former memi)ers now deceased, re- 
cur to me, the last of which is that of Professor Joseph Henry, and 
while Jaivies Smithson will be known to the world and remembered 
as the founder of the Institution, Joseph Henry will be regarded as 
having been raised up by a signal Providence, the true interpreter of 
his will, the able organizer of the Institution, and wise controller of its 
finances. 



XII JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. 

May the Smitlisooian iDstitution, so auspiciously establisbed and ex- 
tensively known, continue, under your wise administration, an estab- 
lishment distinct and specific, for the " increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men." 

With great respect, your friend and servant, 

Peter Pahkek. 

2 Lafayette Square, 

Washington, D. €., April 7, 1884. 

The Secretary informed the Board that Congress had filled the va. 
cancy occasioned by the resignation of Dr. Parker by the election of 
Dr. James C. Welling, president of Columbian University of Wash- 
ington, D. C, for six years from May 13, 1884. 

On motion of Dr. Maclean it was — 

Resolved, That the Board of Eegents has lieard with regret of the 
resignation of Dr. Peter Parker, and hereby expresses the high appre- 
ciation of the valuable and efficient services he has rendered the Insti- 
tution for the past seventeen years as a Eegent and as Chairman o( its 
Executive Committee. 

The Secretary stated that in accordance with the rules of the Board 
during its recess, the remaining members of the Executive Committee 
had filled the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of Dr. Parker, by 
the appointment of Dr. Welling. 

On motion of Dr. Copp6e it was — 

Resolved, That Dr. Welling be elected to fill the vacancy in the Ex- 
ecutive Committee. 

The Secretary reported that in accordance with the request of the 
Board at its last meeting. Senator Edmunds had prepared a bill lela- 
tive to the provision for an Acting Secretary, which had passed Con- 
gress and become a law on the 13th of May, 1884, as follows : 

An act to provide for the appointment of an Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
[Public No. 31, Forty-eighth Congress, first session.] 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled. That the Chancellor of the 
Smithsonian Institution may, bv an instrument in writing filed in the 
office of the Secretary thereof, designate and appoint a suitable person 
to act as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a vacancy in 
said office, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable from illness, 
absence, or other cause to perform the duties of his office ; and in such 
case the ])erson so appoiutetl may perform all the duties imposed on the 
Secretary by law until the vacancy shall be filled or such inability shall 
cease. The said Chancellor may change such designation and appoint- 
ment from time to time as the Institution may in his judgment require. 

Approved, May 13, 1884. 



JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. XIII 

ITiider t])e provisions of this act the Chaucellor had taken the fol- 
lowing action : 

Lyme, Conn., July 2, 1884. 

By virtue of the authority conferred on me by the act of May 13, 
1884, " 10 provide for the apijointmeut of an Acting Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution," I hereby designate and appoint Mr. William 
J. Rhees to act as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a 
vacancy in that office, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable from 
illness, absence, or other cause to perform the duties of his office. 

M. R. Waite, 
Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dr. Maclean presented the annual report of the Executive Commit- 
tee, which was read. 

On motion of Dr. Coppee it was — 

Besolved, Tliat the report of the Executive Committee be accepted, 
and that the income for the year 1885 be appropriated for the service 
of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be expended 
by the Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to the 
approval of the Executive Committee. 

The Secretary presented the following communication he had received 

since the last meeting of the Board : 

June 2, 1884. 
Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, I). C. : 

Sir : I intend to make a bequest for the advancement of science — 
that is, of physical science. For many reasons I would like to make 
the bequest in favor of the Smithsonian Institution ; but there is one 
difficulty which must be cleared up before I can decide. If money were 
left by will to the Smithsonian Institution would it defend the will 
against the claims of any and all persons who should contest the will 
and take legal steps to set it aside? Has it authority by law; has it 
funds that it would be authorized to use for the purpose of defending a 
will in its favor ? As I have no children the will would be less likely 
to be contested, but there are others who might attempt to set it aside. 
For this reason what I wish above all to be assured of, is that any legacy 
that 1 leave for the purpose named will not be given up without making 
a fight of it if needful. Please explain this point. 

I wish you to send me a form of words, the very words themselves, 
in which a bequest should be made so that there could be no pretense 
of setting it aside for vagueness; and that will carry out my intentions, 
which I will explain : 

The chief joart I would desire to bequeath to the Institution would be 
for the "increase and diffusion of knowledge among men," and beside 
would wish to have the Institution invest say 8300 (is that too insig- 
nificant for the purpose?) and use the income thereof for conferring a 
gold medal either annually or biennially (which would be the better?) 
on the person who had made the most important discovery in physical 
science during the year, or two years, ending, say a year before the 
date of ccnferring the medal. For example, the Regents would have 
to decide, say in the month of December, 1883, who made the most 
important discovery in i)Iiysical science during the year, or two years, 
ending December 31, 1882. If yon have my meaning put it in language 
that will make it perfectly clear without multiplying words. 



XIV JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. 

The medal not for any patented invention, like tlie electric light, for 
example, but especially and only for such discoveries as Pasteur on in- 
fection, fermentation, &c., and G. Darwin's on tidal action. Eegents 
to be sole judges as to what is meant by physical science and most im- 
portant discoveries therein. 

The reason why I w^ould like to have not only suggestions and ex- 
planations but the full "I will and bequest to" is also because I don't 
know whether to say the Eegents shall dp this or that, or whether to 
say a majority or quorum of them shall do it in order to make it both 
strictly legal and also practicable; also, whether or not it is necessary 
to say how the Eegents shall invest the money. I supimse a copy of 
that ipart of Hamilton's or Huebus' (Habel?) will would answer for the 
])art relating to the "increase and diffusion," &c. As for the medal I 
believe no fund has been left to institutions for that purpose, and I 
should like to have your opinion on it. 

Please return this letter with your answer, which I would like you to 
let me have as soon as you can; taking, however, all the time you need 
to make it so full and explicit that no further correspondence will be 
necessary at this stage. 1 mean business if your answer is satisfactory. 
For the i)resent I desire this affair to be treated as confidential, or if 
necessary to mention to other parties, withhold the name. 

There is one thing I had rather do than make a bequest in favor of 
the Institution, iiamely, pay over a certain sum, say $2,000 or $2,500, 
in trust to the Kegents; provided I could receive the income during 
life, the Institution to have the sole use and possession of the same 
after my death. Would the Institution be authorized to accept a sum 
of money on such terms"? 
EespectfuDy, 



After full discussion of the subject it was, on motion of Mr. Edmunds — 

Rcsohed, Tliat the commuriicatiou be referred to the Executive Com- 
mittee with full power to act in relation to it. 

The Secretary, Professor Baird, presented his annual report of the 
operations of the Institution for the year 1884, which w'as read in part. 

On motion of Dr. Maclean, the Secretary was instructed to transmit 
the report to Congress. 

On motion of Mr. Edmunds, it was — 

Resolved (1), That the fiscal year of the Institution shall hereafter ter- 
minate on the 30th day of June in each year. 

(2) That the Secretary shall hereafter prepare and cause to be printed 
and sent to each member of the Board on or before the first day of De- 
cember in each year, his annual report. 

(3) That the annual meeting of the Board of Eegents shall hereafter 
be held on the second Wednesday in January in each year. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution rfcsj)ectfully submits the following rei^ort in relation to the 
fumls of the lustitution, the appropriations by Congress for the Na- 
tional Museum and other i)ui poses, aiid the receipts and expenditures 
for the Institution and the Museum since December 31, 1884. 

At the last meeting of the Board of Regents (January 21, 1885) it 
was ordered that " the fiscal year of the Institution shall hereafter ter- 
minate on the 30th day of June in each year." 

In accordance with this action it becomes the duty of the Executive 
Committee to confine its present report to the linaucial operations and 
condition of the Institution, for the six months ending June 30, 1885: 

Condition of the fund July 1, 1885. 

The amount of the bequest of James Smithson deposited in the 
Treasury of the United States, according to the act of Congress of 
August 10, 184r», was $515,109. To this was added, by authority of 
Congress, act of February 8, 1SG7, the residuary legacy of Smithson and 
savings from annual income and other sources, $134,831. To this $1,000 
was added by a bequest of James Hamilton, $500 by a bequest of Simeon 
Habel, and $51,500 as the proceeds of the sale of Virginia bonds owned 
b}" the Institution, making, in all, as the jtermanent Smithson fund in 
the United States Treasury, $703,000. 

Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution, 
January 1, 1885, to June 30, 1885. 

Cash on hand January 1, 1885 $25, 380 84 

EXPENDITURES. 

Building : 

Repairs and improvements $314 90 

Furniture and fixtures 237 25 

$552 15 

XV 



XVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Buildiug expenses brougbt forward $552 15 $25,380 84 

General expenses: 

Meetings of the Board $347 25 

Postage and telegraph 202 28 

Stationery 407 45 

General printing, blanks, &c 91 30 

Incidentals, gas, &c 408 79 

•Books, periodicals, binding 779 33 

Salaries, Secretary, clerks, and labor . . 9, 180 67 

11,417 07 

Publications and researches : 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl- 
edge 2,367 65 

Smithsonian miscellaneous collections- 2,631 01 

Smithsonian annual report 775 12 

Explorations 1, 522 18 

Apparatus 151 25 

7,447 21 

Literary and scientific exchanges (in addition to 

appropriation by Congress) 3, 307 59 

Total expenditures 22, 724 02 

Balance on hand . 2, 656 82 

Interest on the Smithson fund for six months ending June 

30, 1885 , 21, 090 00 



Total cash on hand July 1, 1885 $23, 746 82 

NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS 
TO THE CARE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The following appropriations were made at the second session of the 
Forty-eighth Congress for the National Museum and other objects com- 
mitted to the care of the Smithsonian Institution : 

For the preservation and exhibition and in- 
crease of the collections received from the 
surveying and exploring expeditious of the 
Government, and other sources, including 
salaries or compensation of all necessary 
employes $95, 000 00 

For expenses of heating, lighting, and tele- 
phonic and electrical service for the new 

Museum building 9, 000 00 

' $104, 000 00 

For care of the Armory building and grounds, and expense 

of watching, preservation, and storage of the property 
of the National Museum and of the United States Fish 
Commission contained therein, including salaries or com- 
pensation of all necessary employes ,,,,,. 2, 500 00 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



xyii 



For cases, furniture, and fixtures required for the exhibition 
of the collections of the United States National Museum, 
and for salaries or compensation of all necessary em- 
ployes $40,000 QP 

For expenses of the system of international exchanges 
between the United States and foreign countries, under 
the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including 
salaries or compensation of all necessary employes 10, 000 00 

For finishing and completing the furnishing of the eastern 

portion of the Smithsonian Institution building 5, 600 00 

For the purpose of continuing ethnological researches 
among the American Indians, under the direction of the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, including sal- 
aries or compensation of all necessary employes 40, 000 00 

To pay sundry bills for miscellaneous fixtures and for glass 
for exhibition cases for the l!^ational Museum, being for 
the service of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 2, 891 42 

To meet expenses of receiving, packing, transporting to 
Washington, and installing, or storing, such new speci- 
mens and collections as may be presented to the United 
States at the New Orleans Exposition, to be available 
for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1885 and 1886 5, 000 00 

For cost of restoring the collections sent to the New Or- 
leans Exposition to their proper places in the National 
Museum, including repair of cases and renewal of glass, 
to be available for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1885 
and 1886 2,500 00 

Exhibit of the condition of the appropriationa by Congress for the Smithsotiian Institution, 

National Museum, ^~c. 



Object. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Fire-proofing, &,c., eastern portion of building 

International exchange system 

North American ethnology 

NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Preservation of collections 

Armory building 

Furniture and fixtures 

Paving sidewalk for Museum 

H. Mis. 15 II 



Balances 
January 1, 

1885^ 



Expended 

Jan uary 1 to 

June 30, 

1885. 



$1,298 22 

5,794 50 

19,525 62 



53, 399 27 
1,500 50 

12,636 36 
1,000 00 



Balances 
July 1, 1885. 



$1,298 22 

5, 794 50 

18, 166 70 



48, 543 71 

1,492 25 

10, 849 96 



$1,358 92 



4,855 56 

8 25 

1,786 40 

1,000 00 



XVIII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The committee has examined the vouchers for payments made from 
the Smithson income during the six months ending 30th June, 1886, all 
of whiclr bear the approval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a 
certificaw that the materials and services charged were applied to the 
purposes of the Institution. 

The committee has also examined the accounts of the National Mu- 
seum and find that the balances above given correspond with the cer- 
tificates of the disbursing oflBcers of the Interior and Treasury Depart- 
ments. 

The quarterly accounts-current, the vouchers, and journals have been 
examined and found correct. 

Bespectfully submitted. 

Jomf ]\IacLean, 
James O. Welling, 
Henry Copp^e, 

Executive Committee. 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECRETAKY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOK 1885. 



To the Board of Regents : 

Gentlemen : In accordance with the resolution of the Board at the 
last meeting directing that the fiscal year, instead of extending from 
January to December, shall correspond with the Government fiscal year, 
and extend from July to the following June, inclusive, the present re- 
port will include the history of the operations of the Institution for the 
first half of 1885 only. The same restrictions in regard to time will 
apply to the reports of the National Museum, the Bureau of Ethnology, 
and the system of International Exchanges which have been placed by 
Congress under the direction of the Institution. As heretofore, there 
will also be some account of the operations of the United States Fish 
Commission, and those of the Geological Survey, which, although not 
controlled in any way by the Institution, are so closely affiliated with it 
as to render proper some notice of them. 

SMITHSOlJflAN INSTITUTION. 

mTKODUCTORY. 

The general routine work of the Institution continues to be much the 
same as in previous years, and while no specially new features have 
been introduced, considerable extension has been made in some dejjart- 
ments, and increased precision and efficiency in all. In the way of 
extra duty the principal occasion has been the International Exposition 
at New Orleans, where the Institution (by requirement of law) made a 
very extensive display. 

The new work on the eastern portion of the Smithsonian building has 
been entirely finished, and much progress made in renovating the cen- 
tral portion. 

A considerable number of valuable publications have appeared, and 
others are in press. 

The work of the Museum continues to increase in magnitude, much 
material having been received from the New Orleans Exposition. 

THE BOARD OP RBGrENTS. 

It is with great regret that 1 announce the termination of service on 
the Board, of General WiUiam T. Sherman, his term having expired and 
H. Mis. 15 1 



2 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

his removal from Washington to Saint Louis, Mo,, rendering him ineli- 
gible for re-election, the law of organization requiring two members 
of the Board to be citizens of the District of Columbia. Dr. Welling, 
president of Columbian University, is the only member from this city at 
present, he having been elected by Congress at its last session a Regent 
for six years, until May 13, 1890. 

The term of service of an unusually large number of Eegents will 
expire during the winter of 1885-1886. As "members at large," Eev. 
Dr. John Maclean, of ISTew Jersey, Prof. Asa Gray, of Massachusetts, 
and Dr. Henry Copp^e, of Pennsylvania, will cease to be members on 
the 19th of December next; and as the Forty-ninth Congress will com- 
mence its session in the same mouth, it will become the duty of the 
Speaker to appoint three Eegents from the House of Eepresentatives. 

The term of Hon. N. P. Hill, of Colorado, as Senatorial Eegent, expired 
on the 3d of March, 1885, and on March 25, 1885, the Vice President, 
Mr. Hendricks, appointed Hon. Shelby M. Cullom, of Elinois, as Eegent 
during his term of service as United States Senator. The Vice-Presi- 
dent on the same date also reappointed Hon. J. S. Morrill, of Vermont, 
for a new term of six years. 

Until the next meeting of the Board of Eegents, in January, 1886, the 
vacancy existing in the Executive Committee by the expiration of the 
term of General Sherman was filled by the appointment of Dr. Henry 
Coi)p6e ad interim, by the remaining members of the committee. 

The Board at its last meeting adopted an important resolution, order- 
ing that the fiscal year of the Institution shall terminate on the 30th of 
June of each year. This changes the practice of the Institution since 
its organization, and will occasion some difficulty in arranging tables 
of comparison of receipts and expenditures for annual periods. The 
reason for the change is that the fiscal year of the Government termi- 
nates in June, and as the appropriations made by Congress for the 
Museum, the exchange system, ethnological researches, &c., are for this 
period, it was thought advisable for the accounts of the Institution to 
conform to those of the General Government. The accounts of the In- 
stitution have therefore been given in this report only for the six 
months terminating on the 30th of June, 1885. 

Change in the time of ;printing the Report. — It was also ordered by the 
Board that "the Secretary shall hereafter prepare and cause to be 
printed and sent to each member of the Board, on or before the 1st day 
of December in each year, his annual report." 

Difficulty has always been experienced in the early printiog of the 
Annual Eeport of the Institution. The organic act, August 10, 1846, 
provides that "the Board" of Eegents "shall submit to Congress, at 
each session thereof, a report of the operations, expenditures, and con- 
dition of the Institution.* In accordance with this law the Board has 
annually submitted to Congress a report of the operations of the Insti- 
tution, which ha s been ordered to be printed and a number of extra 
* Revised Statutes, Title LXXIII, Section 5593. 



RErOKT OF THE SECRETAKY. d 

copies granted for its use and distributioi^. Tbe Public Printer how- 
ever has not felt authorized to put any part of the report in type before 
the adoption by Congress of a special resolution to print the extra 
copies referred to, and as there has frequently been great delay in the 
passage of the concurrent resolution, many months have frequently 
elapsed between the annual meeting of the Board and the printing of 
the report. 

The best illustration of this delay is furnished by reference to the 
report of the Institution for the year 1883, which, although submitted 
to Congress on the 21st of January, 1884, was actually not ordered to 
be printed till July, 1884, and not delivered to the members and to the 
Institution until August, 1885. 

To remedy this evil and to secure prompt publication, the Regents 
adopted the resolution referred to above at its last meeting, and by the 
efforts of the members of the Board in the Senate and House of Rep- 
resentatives secured the passage of the following joint resolution by 
Congress, No. 18, approved by the President of the United Slates 
March 3, 1885 : 

'■'■Resolved by the Senate and House of Bepresevtatives of tlie United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the annual reports of 
the Smithsonian Institution shall be hereafter i)rinted at the Govern- 
ment Printing Office, in the same manner as the annual reports of the 
heads of Departments are now printed, for submission in print to the 
two Houses of Congress." 

The intent of this act is to instruct the Public Printer to print the 
Annual Report of the Regents whenever coi)y shall be furnished, so 
that the whole report may be presented to Congress in printed form at 
the commencement of each session. 

The statute under which the reports of Departments are i)rinted is 
as follows: 

"The head of each Department, except the Department of Justice, 
shall lurnish to the Congressional Printer copies of the documents 
usually accom[)anying his annual report, on or before the first day of 
November in each year, and a copy of his annual report on or before 
the third Monday of November in each year.* 

"It is further provided that of the documents accompanying the an- 
nual reports of the Executive Departments one thousand copies shall 
be printed and bound for the use of the members of the Senate, and 
two thousand copies for the use of the members of the House of Repre- 
sentatives, in addition to the usual number for Congress, 1,000 copies."t 

While the printing of the report is now secured without a special 
order at each session of Congress, it will still be necessary to have a 
concurrent resolution every year for the i^rinting of extra copies for the 
use of the Institution. 

FINANCES. 

The financial condition of the Institution continues to be satisfactory. 

The Smithson fund remains the same as at the date of the last report, 

• Revised Statutes, Title IV, section 196. 
t Revised Statntea. Title XLV, section 3798. 



4 EEPORT OF TUE SECRETAEY. 

$703,000, deposited forever in the United States Treasury, from which is 
received an annual interest of 6 per cent. This interest is paid on the 
1st of January and 1st of July, and the money immediately placed in 
the hands of the Treasurer of the United States, who keeps a special 
account of it. All payments are made by checks on this officer, signed 
by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. A monthly statement 
is rendered by the Treasurer of all checks paid and of tL t; balances. This 
is compared with the books kept by the accountant of the Institution. 
A quarterly examination is made by the Executive Committee of the 
Eegents of all the financial transactions of the Institution. The mem- 
bers of the committee sign a certificate, of which the annexed is a copy : 

cbrtificatb. 

Washington, D. C, , — , 18 — . 

The undersigned members of the executive committee of the Board of Regents of 
the Smithsonian Institution have examined the account for for the end- 
ing , 18 — , the receipts amounting to dollars, and the expenditures to 

— — dollars, leaving a balance of dollars, as entered in the journal, pages 

to , inclusive ; and certify the same to be correct. For each disbursement 

there is a voucher approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and cer- 
tified by an agent of the Institution that the articles or services charged therein were 
required and furnished on account of the objects specified, and tbat the same were 
necessary and the charges reasonable. 

The balance above stated corresponds with the certificate of the ; — Department 

of 18—. 



t 

t 
Executive Committee. 



The change of the fiscal year of the Institution, to terminate on the 
30th of June instead of the 31st of December, renders it necessary to 
state in this report the receipts and expenditures for six mouths only, 
viz, from January 1 to July 1, 1885 : 

Cash on hand January 1, 1885 '. $25,380 84 

Expenditures : 

Building, furniture, and fixtures $552 15 

General expenses, salaries, supplies, books, &c. 11,417 07 

Publications and researches 7, 447 21 

Literary and scientific exchanges 3, 307 69 

22, 724 02 

Balance -. 2, 656 82 

Interest on the Smith son fund for the six months ending 
June 30, 1885 21, 090 00 

Total on hand July 1, 1885 $23, 746 82 

The appropriations made by Congress for the system of Exchanges, 
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, have been disbursed 
by Maj. T. J. Hobbs, of the Treasury Department j those for ethnological 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5 

researclies by Mr. J. D. McChcsney, disbursing officer of the United 
States Geological Suryey; those for the preservation of Government 
collections, furniture, and fixtures, and other objects for the National 
Museum, by Mr. George W. Evans, disbursing clerk of the Interior 
Department. 

The vouchers for all these expenditures are critically examinad by 
the proper Auditor and the Comptroller of the Treasury, and have been 
formally passed by those officials. 

Every payment for the Institution and its dependencies is made by 
bonded officers of the Government. 

BUILDINGS. 

The Smithsonian Building. — As stated in previous reports, two appro- 
priations were made by Congress for fire-proofing the eastern portion of 
the Smithsonian building and increasing its accommodations for doing 
the Government work connected with the Museum, the International 
Exchanges, &c. The whole has now been completed in a thoroughly 
fire proof manner, with twice the original number of available office 
rooms, and with every facility for doing the work mentioned in the best 
possible manner. 

The rest of the Smithsonian building is in an unsightly and dilapi- 
dated condition, and will before long require extensive repairs in the 
way of a new ceiling to the second-story room, and the re-arrangement 
of cases in the first floor, &c.; an undertaking which, as being strictly 
in the interest of the National Museum, will warrant the asking Con- 
gress for the necessary appropriation. 

The exterior of the central portion of the building was in a very bad 
condition, requiring repainting, reglazing, &c., and this work has been 
undertaken and practically completed at a moderate expense, greatly 
improving its appearance. 

National Museum Building. — This building is apparently in excellent 
condition, and has required comparatively little in the way of repairs. 
An appropriation was made in 1884 for a concrete walk along the south- 
ern and eastern sides of the building, and was expended so as to furnish 
a much -needed improvement in the facilities of access. 

Armory Building. — This building, which has beeii assigned by law for 
the purposes of the Smithsonian Institution and the United States Fish 
Commission, is occupied partly for the storage of collections and partly 
for the active work of the Commission. It now constitutes what is 
known as the central hatching station of the Commission, where the 
work of propagation of food fishes is conducted on a very extensive 
scale. It is also the depot from which shipments of fish are made from 
Washington to all parts of the country, and for this purpose has a 
branch track of the Baltimore and Potomac Eailroad, by means of which 
the cars are brought alongside of the building and receive and deliver 
their loads. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



The Brick Workshop. — This building coutiuues to be used for the same 
purposes as iu previous years, a part of it being occupied as a stable, 
while the greater portion is used for the preparation and mounting of 
birds, modelling in plaster and papier-mach6, in painting the casts of 
specimens, &c. 

Tefiiporary Workshop. — Keference has been made to a large shed or 
annex, built at the expense of the appropriation for the Kew Orleans 
Exposition, and used in the jDreparation of exhibits for the same, and 
also for storage of the articles received therefrom, and their special 
preparation for exhibition. It was also intended to receive the collec- 
tions as returned until they could be properly assigned to their places 
or otherwise disposed of. An appropriation was however made by Con- 
gress at its last session to meet the cost of restoring the collections sent 
to New Orleans to their original condition, very serious damage having 
occurred in consequence of the dampness and other agencies. This 
has made it necessary to retain the building for the present. As soon 
as arrangements can be made to receive what is now stored therein, it 
will be taken down and the ground cleared of what is a serious incum- 
brance. 

Army Medical Museum Building. — For several years the authorities of 
the Army Medical Museum have been endeavoring to secure an appro- 
priation for the erection of a fire-proof building for the accommodation 
of the library of the Museum and the offices of the Bureau, so as to ob- 
viate any possible danger of loss by fire of important archives and ma- 
terial. An appropriation of $200,000 was finally made by Congress ; 
and the Secretary of War, the Architect of the Capitol, and the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution were authorized to select a site 
in the vicinity of the National Museum for the accommodation of the 
aforesaid building. The committee met and selected the southeast 
corner of the Smithsonian reservation, extending along Seventh street 
170 feet and South B street 260 feet. As the expenditure was contin- 
gent upon the adequacy of the appropriation to construct the building 
in question, the plans were prepared and submitted for estimate to a 
number of bidders, whose offers were as follows : 

Bids for construction of Army Medical Museum Building. 



Names of bidders. 


Where. 


Building 
proper. 


Heating 
apparatus. 


Total. 


Bright, Humphrey & 

Co. 
M. A. McGowan 


District of Columbia. . . 
do-. 


$165,827 00 

171,540 17 
170,358 00 
172, 509 33 

176,600 00 

178,600 00 
185,295 00 
217,337 00 


$14. 160 

11, 000 
15, 140 
15, 897 
15, 000 

15,400 
15, 300 
15, 700 


$179,987 00 

182,540 17 
185,498 00 
188,406 33 
191,600 00 

194, 000 00 
200,595 00 
233,037 00 


Frank Baldwin 


do . 


C. A. Schneider's Sous 


do 


J. T. McDermott (infor- 


do 


mal.) 
Aug. Getz &Co 


do 


D. J. McCartv & Co... 


do 


D. 0. Weeks ■& Son.... 


New York 







REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7 

It thus appearing thattbe appropriation was adequate to the demand, 
a contract was entered into with Messrs. Bright, Humphrey & Co., and 
the work ordered by the Secretary of War to be prosecuted with the 
utmost possible diligence. 

Necessity of new buildings for the National Museum. — An application 
was made to Congress a year or two ago for an appropriation with 
which to commence the construction of a second building for museum 
purposes, and also to accommodate the offices of the United States Geo- 
logical Survey, an establishment which in its close affiliation to the 
work of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum would 
be appropriately quartered in connection therewith. This application 
however was not granted ; but the need is now much greater than be- 
fore, as there is enough material in the way of valuable specimens of 
economical interest to fill a second building the size of the present one. 
This unexhibited surplus is now stored in several buildings, 'Some in 
Washington and some elsewlLere, and consists of important illustra- 
tions of the economical geology, metallurgy, and other resources of the 
United States. In addition to what has been on hand for some time, 
very large collections were presented to the Government at the New 
Orleans Exhibition, which embraced a great deal of intrinsic value as 
well as of popular and scientific interest. It is earnestly to be hoped 
that this requirement will be met by Congress by the speedy appropri- 
ation of an amount suitable for the purpose. 

For the safet}' of the general collections of the National Museum a 
separate building is also very much needed for the accommodation of 
the alcoholic specimens, such as are now provided by most first- class 
museums. Although the present building is practically fire-i)roof, yet 
should a fire be started in the vicinity of these specimens it is probable 
that much damage would be done by the ignition of the many thou- 
sands of gallons of alcohol, and the destruction of the specimens and of 
the jars in which they are contained. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

As the present report, in view of the change of the fiscal year of 
the Smithsonian Institution, covers only the period from January 1 to 
June 30, 1885, the account of explorations will necessarily be much 
shorter than usual, especially as such work frequently does not begin 
until midsummer. The completion of the history of 1885 must there- 
fore be deferred until the next report. 

Greenland, Labrador, and the British Provinces. — Eeference has been 
made in a i^revious report to the return of the Greely expedition and to 
the general results accomplished. Specimens illustrating the botany of 
the region in the vicinity of Lady Franklin Bay have been sent to the 
National Museum by Lieutenant Greely. 



8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Mr. Lucien M. Turner has been engaged in preparing his report upon 
the natural history and meteorology of the region about Fort Chimo, 
Ungava Bay, Northern Labrador, where he spent several years, as stated 
in the last report. As he completes his investigations of the various 
collections, they are turned over to the National Museum, and represent 
very important additions to its treasures. The report will be made to 
the U. S. signal officer. 

Important material, especially in geology and palaeontology, has been 
received from the Geological Survey of Canada. 

Alaslca. — There has been an unusual amount of activity in the inves- 
tigation of the geography and natural history of Alaska, especially the 
northern portion. Lieut. George M. Stoney, of the United States 
Navy, with a force of naval officers and men, has been engaged in con- 
tinuing the explorations made by him in 1884, and already reported 
upon. The revenue cutter Corwin also again visited the Arctic Ocean, 
and parties were sent up the Kowak and other rivers emptying into 
Kotzebue Sound. Mr. Charles H. Townsend, an accomplished collector, 
accompanied the vessel and made many interesting gatherings in nat- 
ural history. Mr. Henry D. Woolfe, agent of the Pacific Steam Whal- 
ing Company, stationed at Cape Lisburne, in the Arctic Ocean, has also 
collected numerous specimens, including shells and marine invertebrates. 
A few of these have been sent in, but the greater part of the collection 
has yet to come. 

Mr. John J. McLean, signal observer at Sitka, has continued his 
transmissions of rare and interesting archaeological material, while Mr. 
W. J. Fisher, at Kodiak, has forwarded additional series of ethnological 
objects, birds, &c. Mr. Johnson, Signal Service observer at Nushagak, 
has transmitted some desirable specimens of birds. 

Washington Territory and the west coast of the United States. — Mr. 
James G. Swan, of Port Townsend, has furnished a number of interest- 
ing ethnological specimens, obtained from the Indians of Puget Sound, 
and Ensign A. P. Niblack, U. S. N., attached to the United States Coast 
Survey steamer Carlile P. Patterson, while jiroceeding in that vessel from 
San Francisco around Cape Horn and thence to Alaska, gathered many 
notes upon the natural history and ethnology of the country, and trans- 
mitted them to the Smithsonian Institution, with quite a number of 
specimens. 

JEJast coast of the United States and Oulf of Mexico.— Dnrmg the&cstholf 
of the year 1885 the steamer Albatross, of the United States Fish Com- 
mission, continued its important exploration into the fisheries and the 
natural history and physical condition of the waters adjacent to the 
coast of the United States. The winter and early spring were spent in 
the Gulf of Mexico in search of new fishing grounds for valuable fish, 
and in Juno was commenced a similar work on the banks of Newfound- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

laud and the other fishing banks still nearer to the coast of New Eng- 
land. The result of these explorations, when published, will be found 
to be of much practical benefit and will add greatly to our informg,tion. 

New Mexico and Arizona. — Mr. E. W. Nelson has continued his work 
in connection with the archaeology and natural history of Arizona, and 
has sent in a large number of boxes of valuable collections. 

Dr. E. W. Shufeldt, at Fort Wingate, N. Mex., has also supplied 
much interesting material. 

Dr. F. W. Taylor has sent some rare minerals and fossils from the 
vicinity of Lake Valley. 

Mexico and Loioer California. — Mr. L. H. Aym6, to whom reference 
has been made in previous reports, has continued his explorations and 
investigations into the natural history and ethnology of Western Mexico, 
and has contributed much material to the National Museum. 

Professor Dug6s, of Guanajato, has also sent in a number of interest- 
ing specimens for identification. 

Dr. Edward Palmer was sent to make explorations into the ethnology 
of the regions in the vicinity of Chihuahua, and was enabled by the 
courtesy of Mr. A. E. Shepherd to acquire many interesting articles in 
the neighborhood of Batopilas. 

The investigations of Mr. Charles H. Townsend in regard to the oc- 
currence of the great seal, known as the sea-elephant, were crowned 
with success, some eight or ten specimens having been obtained and 
forwarded to the National Museum. It is confidently asserted that these 
represent the last of the race and that we may fairly consider the species 
as extinct on our coast. 

Central and South America. — Prof. Miles Eock, who was appointed by 
the Government of Guatemala as astronomer in the boundary survey 
between Guatemala and Mexico, kindly offered his services to make 
photographs and collections of any interesting objects he might find, 
and has already fulfilled his promise by the transmission of a large 
amount of material, including photographs, specimens of birds, and ob- 
jects of archaeology. 

Mr. J. C. Zeledon, of Costa Eica, has also continued the transmissions 
begun by him many years ago, and has supplied the National Museum 
with an almost complete collection of the vertebrate animals of that 
country. 

Dr. "W. H. Jones, of the United States Navy, was very successful in 
archfEological research on the coast of Peru and Chili, and the specimens 
received from him are among the most highly prized of the articles in 
the National Museum. 

Mr. George Kiefer, of Lima, has also made contributions of the same 
character. 

Europe. — Mr. Thomas Wilson, late consul at Nice, France, has been 
busy during the greater part of his olflcial t«rm as consul, first at Nantes 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and then at Nice, in France, in explorations into the remains of prehis- 
toric man, and has presented a very large collection, the unpacking of 
which only awaits his return to this country. It is believed that this 
collection, filling a large^ number of boxes, will prove to be one of the 
richest and most complete of its kind ever sent to the United States. 
The results of minor researches of more or less productiveness, will 
be detailed in the accompanying report of the National Museum. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

In view of the fact that the Annual Eeport of the Institution is yearly 
presented to a number of readers for the first time, it seems proper to 
repeat frequently (he general statement that the publications prepared 
by it embrace three different classes. These are: 

First, a quarto series of volumes of irregular issue entitled " Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge," which consist of original memoirs 
famishing additions to scientific information, corresponding somewhat 
with the Transactions of learned societies, though generally form- 
ing more elaborate treatises than such publications. As a rule these 
contributions to positive knowledge are based on experiments, obser- 
vations, or material, carefully undertaken or gathered by the Institu- 
tion, or they are the results of investigations originated or encouraged 
and assisted by its means. 

The second class of publications is an octavo series of volumes en- 
titled " Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections," which also include 
the presentation of a large amount of new truths developed by origi- 
nal research, but which contain in addition useful summaries, essays on 
improvements in classification — in zoology, botany, and other depart- 
ments of science, and new and extended tables of physical, chemical, 
and other natural constants ; all of which possess great value in aiding 
the labors of scientific specialists in many directions, and at the same 
time are calculated to encourage inquiring minds to prosecute particu- 
lar lines of investigation, as well as to afford facilities to such students. 

The third class of publications is an octavo series of " Smithsonian 
Eeports," presented annually to Congress, which include, in addition to 
the usual record and statement of ojjerations for the year, a consider- 
able amount of carefully prepared matter on various scientific topics 
intended for the general reader. 

Bistrihiition.— These publications are liberally distributed for the dif- 
fusion of knowledge, but iTom the absolute impossibility of producing 
editions large enough to supply all intelligent inquirers who might b.e 
interested in their perusal, the distribution is now confined: 1st, to those 
learned societies of the first class which give to the Institution in return 
complete sets of their own publications ; 2d, to colleges of the first 
class furnishing catalogues of their libraries and students, and pub- 
lications relative to their organization and history ; 3d, to public libra- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

ries in Ibis country haviug 25,000 volumes; 4tli, they are presented in 
some cases to still smaller libraries, especially if no other copies of the 
Smithsonian publications are given in the same place, and a large dis- 
trict would be otherwise unsupplied. To iijstitutions devoted exclu- 
sively to the promotion of particular branches of knowledge-, such of its 
publications are given as relate to their special objects. 

Smithsonian Gontrihutions to Knoicledge. — A work on "Prehistoric 
Fishing in Europe and North America," by Dr. Charles Eau, men- 
tioned in my last report (that for 1884) as being in type and nearly 
ready for the press, was printed and published early in the year, and 
has since been distributed in 'accordance with the general practice 
adopted. This work forms a volume of 342 pages (including the index), 
with 18 pages of introductory matter, in all 360 pages, and is illus- 
trated with '406 figures. Part I, occupying nearly one-third of the 
memoir, is devoted to the archaeological relics of Europe, giving a con- 
cise though comprehensive survey of whatever is supposed to relate to 
fishing, under the three epochs of the palaeolithic age, the neolithic 
age, and the bronze age. Part II is occupied with the archaeological 
fishing relics of North America, under the general headings of " Fish- 
ing Implements and Utensils," "Boats and Appurtenances," "Prehis- 
toric Structures connected with Fishing," "Aboriginal Representations 
of Fishes, Aquatic Mammals, &c.," and, lastly, "Artificial Shell-Depos- , 
its." This descriptive summary is supplemented by an interesting col- 
lection of extracts compiled from various writings of the sixteenth, sev- 
enteenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries, in which reference is 
made to aboriginal fishing in North America. 

During the past year tjvo volumes of the Contributions to Knowledge 
have been made up from outstanding memoirs. 

Volume XXIV comprises: Article i, "Eesults of Meteorological Ob- 
servations made at Providence, E. I., extending over a period of forty- 
five years, from December, 1831, to December, 1876." By Prof. Alexis 
Caswell, of Brown University, Providence, E. I. Published in 1882 
(an account of which was given in the Annual Eeport for that year). 
Article ii, " Tables and Eesults of the Precipitation in Eain and Snow 
in the United States, and at some stations in adjacent parts of North 
America and in Central and South America. Collected by the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and discussed under the direction of Joseph Henry 
and Spencer F. Baird, Secretaries." By Charles A. Schott. Second 
edition published in 1881 (an account of which was given in the An- 
nual Eeport for that year). The whole forms a volume of 311 pages, 
illustrated with 8 diagrams in the text, and accompanied by 5 plates 
and 5 large folding maps of the United States, showing the curves of 
equal precipitation for each of the four seasons and also for the year. 

Volume XXV comprises : Article i, " Prehistoric Fishing in Europe 
and North America." By Dr. Charles Eau (just previously described). 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Article ii, "Archaeological Researches iu Nicaragua." By J. F. Brans- 
ford, M. D. Published in 1881 (au account of which was given in the 
Annual Report for that year). Article in, " On the Contents of a Bone 
Cave in the Island of Auguilla, West Indies." By Edward D. Cope. 
Published in 1883 (an account of which was given in the Annual Re- 
port for that year). The whole forms a volume of 509 pages, illustrated 
with 545 cuts or figures and accompanied by 7 engraved plates. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. — The ten following numbers com- 
prise pamphlet editions of paj)ers published by the Institution, which 
being extracted from the Annual Report for 1883, should properly have 
appeared during the year 1884; but which, through delay at the Gov- 
ernment Printing Office, were not actually issued till the present year. 

577. "An Account of the Progress in Meteorology in the year 1883." 
By Prof. Cleveland Abbe. This, with 4 pages of index, comprises 93 
pages 8vo. 

578. "An Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1883." By 
Prof. George F. Barker. 8vo. 52 pp. 

582. "An Account of the Progress in Zoology in the year 1883." By 
Theodore Gill. 8vo. 53 pp. 

583. "An Account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year 1883." 
By Prof. Otis T. Mason. 8vo. 43 pp. 

' 585. "Addresses at the Unveiling of the Joseph Henry Statue at Wash- 
ington, D. C, April 19, 1883." By Chief Justice Waite, Chancellor of 
the Smithsonian Institution, and Noah Porter, LL. D., president of Yale 
College. Preceded by a sketch of the proceedings on that occasion; 
and illustrated with a page wood-cut of the bronze statue as it appears 
in the Smithsouian grounds. 8vo. 27 pp. 

586. " Report of Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, to the Board of Regents, for the year 1883." 8vo. 86 pp. 

587. "Report of the Assistant Director of the United States National 
Museum, together with the Reports of the Curators, for the year 1883." 
Svo. 200 pp. 

588. " Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology." By A. W. 
Howitt, James Wickersham, W. H. Adams, Augustus A. Foerste, J. 
P. MacLean, WiUiam J. Taylor, S. T. Walker, L. A. Kengla, John A. 
Ruth, Henry Booth, Henry E. Chase, and Charles C. Nutting. Svo. 
122 pp. 

590. "Australian Group Relations." By A. W. Howitt. 8vo. 28 pp. 
605. "On the Comparative Phonology of four Siouan languages." By 
Rev. J. Owen Dorsey. Svo. 11 pp. 

Among the issues properly belonging to the year 1885, the first and 
most important is No. 538 of the Smithsonian series—" Tables, Meteor- 
ological and Physical." By Dr. Arnold Guyot, of Princeton CoUege. 
Fourth edition, revised and enlarged. Edited by William Libbey, jr. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

A quarter of a century has passed since the publication of the third 
edition of this valuable and elaborate work. The first edition of the 
Tables was published by the Institution in 1852, comprising 212 pages. 
Five years later (in 1857) a second edition was published, with careful 
revision by the author, and the various series of tables were so en- 
larged as to extend the work to over GOO pages. The third edition was 
published in 1859, with still further amendments. 

To this volume Dr. Guyot, with untiring industry, has been making 
constant additions ; and the i)resent issue, projected by him in 1879 (from 
various delays occasioned by pressing professional occupations, as well 
as by illness and death in his family), was about four years in passing 
through the press. Just before completing the last few tables, the esti- 
mable and distinguished author departed this life, February 8, 1884, in 
the seventy-seventh year of his age. The completion of the work was 
intrusted to his able assistant, Prof. William Libbey,jr., who has judi- 
ciously executed his duties as the final editor of the work. The tables 
are arranged in seven series. The first series (comprising 15 tables), 
thermometrical comparisons and conversions; the second series (of 33 
tables), hygrometrical computations; the third series (of 27 tables), 
barometrical; the fourth series (of 27 tables), hypsometrical ; the fifth 
series, geographical tables, including 40 of measures of length (for 
heights, &c.), 10 of itinerary measures, and 10 of square measures of 
geographical surface; the sixth series (of 99 tables) for corrections of 
variations of temperature, &c., at different parts of the earth ; and the 
seventh series comprising 9 miscellaneous tables. The whole forms an 
octavo volume (including 25 introductory pages) of 763 pages. 

]S[o. 545. "Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington: Vol. 
II." From July 1, 1882, to July 1, 1884. 8vo. 195 pp. 

592. "Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington: Vol. VII, 
containing the Minutes of the Society and of the Mathematical Section 
for the year 1884." From January 5, 1884, to December. 20, 1884. 8vo. 
lix-|-135 pp., or 194 pp. 

594. "Mental overwork and premature disease among public and pro- 
fessional men." By Charles K. Mills, M. D. Being lecture IX of the 
"Toner Lectures"; delivered in Washington, D. 0., March 19, 1884. 
8 vo. 34 pp. 

595. "The Refraction of Sound." By William B. Taylor. A reprint 
from the Smithsonian Eeport for 1875. 8vo. 12 pp., with 6 figures. 

608. "Report of Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, to the Board of Regents, for the year 1884." 8vo. 98 pp. 

609. "An Account of the Progress in Astronomy in the year 1884." 
By Prof. Edward S. Holden. 8vo. 55 pp. 

610. "A Review of the Progress of North American Invertebrate 
Paleontology for the year 1884." A bibliography of publications on 
the subject for the year. By John Belknap Marcou. 8vo. 20 pp. 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

611. "An Account of the Progress in Geography in the year 1884." 
By Commander F. M. Green, U. S. K 8vo. 19 pp. 

612. "An Account of the Progress in Meteorology in the year 1884." 
By Prof. Cleveland Abbe. 8vo. 176 pp. 

613. "An Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1884." By 
Prof. George F. Barker. 8vo. 57 pp. 

614. "An Account of the Progress in Chemistry in the year 1884." 
By Prof. H. Carrington Bolton. 8vo. 52 pp. 

615. "An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year 1884." 
By Prof. Edward S, Dana. 8vo. 19 pp. 

616. "An Account of the Progress in Vulcanology and Seismology, 
in the years 1883 and 1884." By Prof. Charles G. Eockwood, jr. 8vo. 
21 pp. 

617. " An Account of the Progress in Zoology in the year 1884." By 
Theodore Gill. 8vo. 93 pp. 

618. "An Account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year 
1884." By Prof. Otis T. Mason. 8vo. 41 pp. 

619. "Antiquities at Pantaleon, Guatemala." By Lieut. Charles E. 
Vreeland and Dr. J. F. Bransford, U. S. N. 8vo. 12 pp. Illustrated 
with 12 figures. 

620. " Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology." By M. L. 
Leach, Charles M. Smith, and E. T. Wiltheiss. 8vo. 38 pp. lUus- 
trated with 16 figures. 

621. " The Guesde Collection of Antiquities in Pointe ^ Pitre, Gua- 
daloupe, West Indies." By Prof. Otis T. Mason. Svo. 107 pp. Illus- 
trated with 221 figures. 

Tlie Scientific Writings of Joseph Henry. — Good progress has been 
made in the collation and printing of the collected scientific writings of 
Professor Henry ; 600 octavo pages, or more than half the entire work, 
having now (July 1) been set up in type, corrected, and stereotyped. It 
is estimated that the entire work will comprise 1050 pages ; and it is 
hoped that the whole will be stereotyped and printed off by the close 
of the present year. 

Bulletins of the N ational Museum. — These form a series (as heretofore 
explained) designed to supply a prompt publication of original descrip- 
tions of specimens received by the Natronal Museum, and of other al- 
lied matter. While these are primarily printed under the direction of 
the honorable Secretary of the Interior, a supplementary edition is i)ub- 
lished from the stereotype plates by the Institution for the benefit of 
its correspondents, and they are included in its " Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions." 

Bulletin Ko. 27 comprises " Descriptive Catalogues of the Collections 
sent from the United States to the International Fisheries Exhibition, 
London, 1883 ; constituting a Report upon the American Section," i)re- 
pared under the direction of G. Brown Goode, United States commis- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

sioner, and a staff of associates. It contains a preliminary catalogue 
and synopsis of the collections exhibited by the United States Fish 
Commission and by special exhibitors ; a concordance of the official 
classification for the use of the juries; collection of economic crusta- 
ceans, worms, echinoderms, and sponges, by Richard Rathbun ; a cata- 
logue of the aquatic and fish-eating birds, by Robert Ridgway ; a cata- 
logue of the economic mollusca and the apparatus and appliances used 
in their capture and preparation for the market, by Lieut. Francis 
Winslow, U. S. N. ; the whale-fishery and its appliances, by James 
Temple Brown ; a catalogue of the collection of fishes, by Tarleton 
H. Bean ; a descriptive catalogue of the collection illustrating the 
scientific investigation of the sea and fresh waters, by Richard Rath- 
bun ; a catalogue of the aquatic mammals, by Frederick W. True ; 
a catalogue of the collection illustrating the fishing vessels and boats 
and their equipment, the economic condition of fishermen, anglers' 
outfits, &c., by Capt. Joseph W. Collins ; a catalogue of the apparatus 
for the capture of fish, by R. Edward Earll; a catalogue of fishery 
products and of the apparatus used in their preparation, by A. How- 
ard Clark ; and a catalogue of the fish-cultural exhibit, by R. Edward 
Earll ; the whole forming (with introductory matter and general index) 
an octavo volume of 1333 pages. 

Report on the Reptiles and Batrachians of North America. — The Smith- 
sonian Institution may claim the credit of having done more than any 
other organization or any individual in furnishing to the students and 
naturalists of the country convenient and effective text-books for the 
determination of the natural history of the United States and North 
America. In proof of this it is sufficient to point to what has been done 
in the way of systematic treatises on mammals, birds, fishes, certain 
groups of mollusks, &c. 

Although a number of monographs of reptiles have been published 
more or less directly under its auspices, such as that of the serpents 
and other groups, there ife still lacking a compact manual of both the 
reptilia and batrachia ; and arrangements were accordingly made with 
Professor Cope, of Philadelphia, to supply this want. This gentleman is 
well known for his professional acquaintance with these groups as studied 
by him in the collections in the Museum of the Academy of iTatural Sci- 
ences of Philadelphia, the ]!^ational Museum of Washington, and else- 
where. An agreement was therefore made with him for the preparation 
of a much-needed manual on the reptiles and batrachians of North Amer- 
ica ; a year's time being allowed, at a suitable compensation, for the final 
and critical examination of the collections of the National Museum and 
the preparation of the report. In this way the entire field of the ver- 
tebrates of North America will have been completelj^ covered. 

Proceedings of the National Museum. — This series, somewhat allied to 
the series of "Bulletins," comprises papers relative to the collections — 



16 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

generally of a less elaborate character, and aiming at a still greater 
promptness of issue by having printed single " signatures " of the peri- 
odical so soon as the matter is furnished. 

Volume VII of the '^ Proceedings of the National Museum" was 
completed during the early part of the year, and contains descriptive 
papers by Tarleton H. Bean, Charles E. Bendire, F. W. Clarke, W. H. 
Dall, Frederick P. Dewey, H. G. Dresel, C. H. Fernald, Charles H. 
Gilbert, Theodore Gill, G. Brown Goode, Asa Gray, Eomyn Hitchcock, 
David S. Jordan, Seth E. Meek, George P. Merrill, John Murdoch, E. 
W. Nelson, Temple Prime, Eichard Eathbun, Eobert Eidgway, J. T. 
Eothrock, John A. Eyder, E. W. Shufeldt, Elisha Slade, Sidney I. Smith, 
Eosa Smith, Leonhard Stejneger, Joseph Swain, Cyrus Thomas, and 
Frederick W. True ; forming an octavo volume of 670 pages, illustrated 
with 8 figures and 2 plates. 

The following circulars have been published as appendices to the Pro- 
ceedings of the National Museum : 

589. Circular No. 22, " Brief directions for removing and preserv- 
ing the skins of mammals." By William T. Hornaday. 8vo. 7 pp. 

590. Circular No. 23. " Instructions for taking paper molds of in- 
scrii^tions in stone, wood, bronze, &c.," prepared by A. P. Niblack. 8vo. 
5 pp. 

597. Circular No. 24. "Plan of a Collection to illustrate the textile 
industries of the United States, to be exhibited at the World's Indus- 
trial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-'85, at New Orleans," 
By Eomyn Hitchcock. 8vo. 16 pp. 

598. Circular No, 25, " Preliminary plan for a collection of the build- 
ing and ornamental stones and rocks of the United States, to be exhib- 
ited at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 
1884-'85, at New Orleans." By George P. Merrill. 8vo. 2 pp. 

599. Circular No, 26. "Plan for a collection of gems and precious 
stones to be exhibited at the Cincinnati Industrial Exposition, and the 
World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-'85, at 
New Orleans. By F. W. Clarke. 8vo. 2 pp. 

600. Circular No. 27. "Directions for collecting, preserving, and 
transporting tortricids and other small moths." By C. H. Fernald. 8vo. 
3 pp. 

601. Circular No. 28. " Directions for mound explorations." By Cyrus 
Thomas. 8vo. 3 pp. 

602. Circular No. 29. " Provisional plan for a collection of mammals 
to be exhibited at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Expo- 
sition of 1884-'85, at New Orleans." By Frederick W. True. 8vo. 27 pp. 

603. Circular No. 30. "A list of birds, the eggs of which are wanted 
to complete the series in the National Museum, with instructions for 
collecting eggs." By Charles E. Bendire. 8vo. 4 pp. 

604. Circular No. 31. " Plan to illustrate the mineral resources of 
the United States, and their utilization, at the World's Industiial and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-'85, at New Orleans." By Fred- 
erick P. Dewey. Svo. 8 pp. 

622. Circular 'No. 32. " Classification of the Materia Medica collec- 
tion of the United States National Museum, and catalogue of speci- 
mens." By James M. Flint. " Eevised and extended " by Henry Gr. 
Beyer. 8vo. 39 pp. 

626. Circular No. 33. " Notes on the preparation of rough skeletons." 
By Frederick A. Lucas. 8vo. 8 pp., with 12 figures. 

The Smithsonian Annual Eepoi-t. — The third class of publications con- 
sists of Annual Keports of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, presented to Congress, and printed by authority of that body. 
The Eeport of 1883 was not issued till 1885. It contains the report of 
the Secretary of the Institution for the year, supplemented by the cor- 
respondence relative to the transfer of astronomical announcements by 
telegraph to Harvard College Observatory; the report on the operations 
of the Smithsonian system of international and domestic exchanges ; 
and the report of the Assistant Director of the National Museum on 
the condition of that department, together with a general Appendix, 
embracing a record of scientific progress for the year, — in astronomy, by 
Edward S. Holden ; geology, by T. Sterry Hunt ; geography, by F. M. 
Green ; meteorology, by Cleveland Abbe ; physics, by George F. Barker ; 
chemistry, by H. Carrington Bolton; mineralogy, by Edward S. Dana; 
botany, by W. G. Farlow; zoology, by Theodore Gill; and anthro- 
pology, by Otis T. Mason ; together with miscellaneous papers relative 
to anthropology, by A. W. Howitt, James Wickersham, W. H. Adams, 
Augustus A. Foerste, J. P. MacLean, William J. Taylor, S. T. Walker, 
L. A. Kengla, John A. Ruth, Henry Booth, Henry E. Chase, Charles C. 
Nutting, and J. Owen Dorsey. The Report forms an octavo volume of 
997 pages (including introductory matter and index), illustrated with 
33 figures and sketch-maps and 1 plate. 

The "Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, for the year 1884," forming an 8vo. volume of 943 pages (in- 
cluding introductory matter and index), has been most unfortunately 
delayed, and is not yet published. 

Publications of the Bureau of Ethnology. — To the three preceding classes 
of established publications (one of quarto size, and two of ordinary oc- 
tavo size), a fourth class, of imperial octavo size, embracing the publi- 
cations of the Bureau of Ethnology, under the direction of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, may now properly be added. Of this series two vol- 
umes have already appeared. 

The "First Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, to the Smith- 
sonian Institution," by J. W. Powell, Director, though published two 
years ago, was not noticed in the last report of the Secretary. This 
work contains papers by J. W. Powell (in addition to his report proper), 
H. Mis. 15 2 



18 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



by H. C. Yarrow, E. S. Holdeu, C. C. Eoyce, Garrick Mallery, J. C. Pil- 
ling-, J. O. Dorsey, A. S. Gatschet, and S. E. Riggs. It forms an im- 
perial octavo volume of G3S pages (including introductory matter and 
index), and is illustrated with 292 figures iu the text, 2 maps, and 53 
l)lates, of which four are colored. 

The " Second Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, to the Smitli- 
souiau Institution," by J. W. Powell, Director, contains papers by J. W. 
Powell, Frank H. Gushing, Erminnie A. Smith, Henry W. Heushaw, 
Washington Matthews, William H. Holmes, and James Stevenson. It 
forms an imperial octavo volume of 514 pages (including introductory 
matter and index), and is illustrated with 60 figures in the text, 2 maps, 
and 173 plates, of which 12 are colored. The plates contain about 750 
separate figures. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 



One of the most important factors in the "diffusion of knowledge 
among men" is found in the system of international exchange carried 
on by the Smithsonian Institution. Originally only intended for the dis- 
tribution of its own publications, the Institution by degrees extended 
its usefulness and privileges to learned societies and individuals of both 
hemispheres, and at present this exchange service forms the medium 
of scientific intercourse between about 700 home institutions and 4,000 
establishments distributed over all parts of the inhabited globe. 

The gradual development of this service has resulted iu a large in- 
crease both in the work to be performed and in the number of employes. 
The management of this branch has, since the year 1880, been in charge 
of Mr. George H. Boehmer, and to his detailed report, hereto appended, 
I refer for more minute information. 

Statistics. — The increase in the number of parcels received will blest be 
illustrnted by the following comparison of the first six months of 1885 
with the full years of 1882, 1883, and 1884: 





1882. 


18S3. 


1884. 


Six mouths — 

1835. 


Eeceijits. 


to 

Pa 


o3 

3 


Packages. 

• 


o 


o5 

0) ■ 

bC 
o 


Pounds. 


Packages. 


a 

(2 


Foreign ex- 


















changes .. 
Domestic ex- 


19, 292 


83,720 


18, 063 


78, 647 


18, 866 


78, 732 


10,688 


60,475 


ciianges .. 
Government 


7,187 


30, 904 


8,262 


49,608 


7,967 


42, 255 


3,679 


14, 375 
22, 182 


oxcliauges 


31,568 


28, 750 


37, 569 


27, 395 


38, 337 


32, 827 


29,233 




Total... 


58, 017 


143, 374 


63, 894 


155, 650 


65, 170 


153, 814 


43, 600 


97, 032 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

The transmissions of exchanges have been iu direct ratio to the 
increase iu the receipts, being for the first six months of 1885 : 

(1) Foreign exchanges: 345 boxes, representing a bulk of 2,415 cubic 
feet, with a weight of 82,800 pounds, against 270 boxes during the same 
period of 1884. 

(2) Domestic exchanges: 5,138 x^ackages, this being a little above the 
half of the total number sent out during the year 1884. 

(3) Government exchanges : 38 boxes, representing a bulk of 266 cubic 
feet, with a weight of 10,500 pounds. 

Congressional Aid. — The Smithsonian Institution continues to receive 
the usual Congressional appropriation of $10,000 to carry out the op- 
erations of the exchange service. The Library of Congress is the prin- 
cipal beneficiary of the exchanges, large numbers of books and parcels 
being annually received for that institution. 

Transportation Companies. — A very important contribution toward the 

expenses of the exchange service consists in the granting of free freight 

on the exchange parcels or boxes by the following transportation com- 
panies and firms, for which liberality acknowledgments are hereby grate- 
fully rendered : 

Allan Steamship Company (A. Schumacher & Co., agents), Baltimore. 

American Colonization Society, Washington, D. C. 

Anchor Steamship Line (Henderson & Brother, agents), New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pirn, Forwood & Co., agents), ISTew York. 

Bailey, H. B., & Co., New York. 

Bixby, Thomas E., & Co., Boston, Mass. 

Borland, B. R., New York. 

Boultou, Bliss & Dallett, New York. 

Cameron, E. W., & Co., New York. 

Compaguie Generale Transatl antique (L. de B6bian, agent), New York. 

Cunard lloyal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon H. Brown & Co., agents), 
New York. 

Deunison, Thomas, New York. 

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents). New 
York. 

Inman Steamship Company, New York. 

Merchants' Line of Steamers, New York. 

Monarch Line (Patton, Vickers & Co., agents). New York. 

Munoz y Espriella, New York. 

Murray, Ferris & Co., New York. 

Netherlands- American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazaux, agent), 
New York. 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York. 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York. 

North German Lloyd (agents, Oelrichs & Co., New York; A. Schu- 
macher & Co., Baltimore). 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 

Panama Railroad Company, New York. 

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents), Philadelphia and Kew 

York. 
White Cross Line of Antwerp (Punch, Edye & Co., agents), New York. 
Wilson & Asmus, New York. 

The concessions of reduced freight on the part of the Pennsylvania 
Railroad Company and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, as 
well as by the line of freight steamers between Washington and New 
York, have been continued. 

The thanks of the Institution are also due to the foreign ministers and 
consuls of the various Governments for their assistance in taking charge 
of the transmission of boxes to the countries which they respectively 
represent. 

Government Exchanges. — By enactment of Congress of March 2, 1867, 
the Institution was appointed the agent of the United States in an ex- 
change of oflBcial public documents with foreign Governments. As pro- 
vided for by Congress, 50 copies of all official j)ublications, whether ema- 
nating from Congress or any Department or Bureau of the Government, 
whether printed at the Congressional Printing Office or elsewhere, must 
be delivered to the Library of Congress for distribution by the Smith- 
sonian Institution and to such foreign Governments as are willing to 
furnish to the Library of Congress a corresponding return from their 
publications. The conditions of this exchange having been accepted 
by 38 Governments — of which 19 are European — one box (the 23d of the 
series since the establishment of this exchange) of United States pub- 
lications was sent to each of these Governments in April, 1885. 

The returns having for some years fallen considerably short of ex. 
pectations, Mr. George H. Boehmer, in charge of the exchange office, 
was detailed, at the request of the Librarian of Congress, and with the 
sanction of the chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library, to 
visit Euroi)e for the purpose of arranging for better and fuller returns 
on the part of those Governments exchanging with the United States. 
For detailed information of the progress of his mission, success ob- 
tained, and suggestions relative to the service, I would refer to the re- 
port on the subject contained in the section ''Government exchange 
division" of his report on the operations of the exchange office, hereto 
appended. 

Mr. Boehmer left on his mission on the 24th of July, 1884, and re- 
turned on the 20th of February, 1885, during which time he visited con- 
secutively nearly all the European states, obtaining satisfactory re- 
sults and securing large and valuable additions for the library, consist- 
ing mostly of parliamentary papers and compilations of the laws of the 
various Governments. 

One of the principal obstacles preventing the establishment of per- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

manently satisfiictory measures on the part of the European Govern- 
ments, and which can perhaps be obviated by a personal representation 
in Europe, is caused by the entirely different understanding of the ex- 
change question in those countries, resulting from the exchange conven- 
tions of Paris in 1875 and 1880, and Brussels in 1883, and by the absence 
of sufficient legislation by them for securing copies of official publica- 
tions for exchange purposes. 

The governmental bureaus of most of the European states issue their 
publications through the medium of publishing houses, receiving from 
these about 50 per cent, from the sales of the books. Copies for gra- 
tuitous distribution, therefore, are not issued, but the books represent 
a trade value which is accepted by the exchange Commissions (estab- 
lished on the basis adopted at the Paris Convention of 1875), who are 
allowed only to exchange value for value. 

The publications of the United States, being issued at the public ex- 
pense, and not considered as purchased (although they are quoted at 
very high prices in the book trade, and especially abroad), it becomes 
under these circumstances difficult to obtain in Europe satisfactory 
returns. It is therefore suggested by Mr. Boehmer that in future 
transactions the market value, as given by the foreign book trade, be 
accepted, which would enable our Government to obtain more satisfac- 
tory returns. 

Preliminary arrangements have been effected with the Imperial Gov- 
ernment of Austria for a complete exchange of all the official and sci- 
entific publications of the two Governments. 

The Government of Uruguay has also forwarded to the Smithsonian 
Institution, through the United States Department of State, proposi- 
tions relative to a full and permanent exchange of official public docu- 
ments. 

LIBRARY. 

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received 
by the Smithsonian Institution from January 1 to June 30, 1885 : 

Volumes : 

Octavo or smaller 688 

Quarto or larger 222 

910 

Parts of volumes : 

Octavo or smaller 1, 971 

Quarto or larger 2, 238 

4,209 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo or smaller .' 4, 612 

Quarto or larger 256 

4,868 

Maps 354 

Total 10, 341 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

CO-OPERATIVE RELATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Duplicate Collection of Building Stones for the American Museum of Nat- 
ural History, New York. — Amoug the various important subjects of in- 
quiry on the part of the census organization of 1880, was one into the 
statistics of the quarries in the United States used to furnish building 
stones for building and ornamental purposes, and an arrangement was 
made by General Walker with Dr. G. W. Hawes, curator of mineralogy 
and lithology of the National Museum, to collect the necessary material, 
and to prepare a complete report on the subject, this to be done at the 
expense of the United States. General Walker also authorized an ar- 
rangement by which, on payment of all the costs, Mr. Morris K. Jesup 
was to have a duplicate collection, with a view to its presentation to the 
American Museum of Natural History. Estimating the cost of acquisi- 
tion of the specimens and their preparation, including a microscopical 
section of each specimen, at $3.50 ea'ch, and the number of specimens 
to be treated at one thousand, the sum of $3,500 was placed at the com- 
mand of Dr. Hawes for the purpose in question. The work upon this 
series was prosecuted with much vigor until interrupted by the death 
of Dr. Hawes. During the present year however, the work was re- 
newed, and the necessary means being furnished by Mr. Jesup, extra 
workmen were employed upon his collection, which will probably be 
ready for delivery in the course of the year 1885. By thus duplicat- 
ing the collection without expense to the Smithsonian Institution or 
the National Museum, the opportunity of study and comparison will be, 
of course, greatly extended. 

Bureau of Education. — In accordance with the general policy of the 
Institution to do nothing with its funds which can equally well be done . 
by other means, and to co-operate with other bureaus and departments 
of the Government, the Institution turned over to the Commissioner of 
Education 3,326 catalogues, announcements and reports of colleges and 
educational institutions, together with 401 letters, and 1,978 card-slips, 
containing an alphabetical list of the entire series. 

The Diplomatic Review. — In March, 1883, the conductors of "The 
Diplomatic Review" of England sent to the Smithsonian Institution an 
offer of the Eeview to any library that would undertake to bind it. 

By some strange mishap the letter containing this very liberal offer 
went astray, and no attention was paid to it. In October, 1884, the 
offer was renewed by Mr. O. D. Collet, the letter being accompanied by 
a list of libraries to which the Review had been sent direct. This letter 
was the initiatory step of a correspondence, which will eventually result 
in the distribution of several hundred sets of the Diplomatic Review, as 
full as the conductors thereof can furnish. 

The Diplomatic Review commenced in 1855, and carried on to the end 
of 1865, under the title of the Free Press, is a continuation of the first 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 28 

and second series of tbe Portfolio, in wliicb, nearly half a century aj?o, 
the late Mr. William Pollard Urqiihart began h's series of articles on 
the political history of Europe. In the pages of the Diplomatic Review 
will be found Itussian secret dispatches, together with other rare and 
interesting documents on the history of Europe from the time of the 
Protocol of April 4, 1826, for the "Pacification of Greece," to the end of 
the Servian war, in 187G. Besides these scarce documents, the Diplo- 
matic Review contains many original works of Mr. Urquhart, and a mass 
of the transactions of the Foreign Affairs Committees of Workingraen 
formed by him at the time of the Crimean war. 

Among these papers. the following may be mentioned: Will of Peter 
the Great, brought to Paris by the Chevalier d'Eon in 1757 ; Danger to 
the Political Balance of Europe, by Gustavus III, King of Sweden, 
1791; Protocol of a Conference at Constantinople between the British 
Ambassador and the Divan on the Connexion of Russia with the Greek 
Revolt, 1822; Memoir of Count Bernstorfif to the King of Prussia on 
the means of annexing the Minor German States, 1831, &c. 

On the 18th of April, 1885, in i)ursuance of the above-mentioned 
notice, a printed circular was sent to over 400 of the i^rincipal libraries, 
educational institutions, and kindred establishments, to the following 
effect : 

This Institution is iuformed by the Conductors of The Diplomatic Eeview of England, 
that " a set of the twenty-five volumes of the Review, stitched and wrapped in seven 
books," will be presented to your library "on the condition of your binding them, so 
that they may be safely preserved for reference." 

The Diplomatic Review extends from the 13th of October, 1855, to the 3d of Jan- 
uary, 1677, and contains rare and interesting documents relative to the history of 
Europe from 1826 to 1876. It is proper to notify you that the successive volumes were 
printed in different sizes : 

Book I is in folio, aud comprises two volumes. 

Books II, III, and IV, are quarto, comprising sixteen volumes. 

Books V, VI, and VII, are octavo, comprising seven volumes, and supplement. 

Please notify this Institution whether this offer is accepted by your library ; or, if 
you have already received a set, whether you desire another on the same terms. 

Replies to the above were received as follows : 236 accepted the en- 
tire set ; 8 desired portions to complete partial sets previously received, 
and 43 declined, generally on the ground that the character of the in- 
formation contained in the Review did not come within the scope of 
the library. Quite a number of libraries have not noticed the circular 
or the offer contained. 

A list was prepared, and sent to Mr. C. D. Collet, of those libraries 
which accepted, and inasmuch as the sets were all declared to be more 
or less incomplete, preference was given to the more important libra- 
ries, in order that the volumes might reach the greatest number of 
readers. 

Newfoundland Postage on Exchanges. — An arrangement has been made 
with the postmaster- general of Newfoundland b}' which all matter re- 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

lating to the exchange system shall be passed through the mails under 
frauk of the Smithsonian Institution, the chief clerk of which certifies 
to the contents of each package. 

Zoological Specimens for the Museum, contributed by Menageries. — For a 
number of years the Institution has been indebted to the proprietors of 
the menageries of the country for the contribution of animals dying 
from disease or otherwise while in their charge, the principal establish- 
ments in this connection being those of Messrs. Barnum, Bailey, and 
Hutchinson; Mr. Adam Forepaugh; the Central Park Menagerie, in 
charge of Mr. W. A. Oonklin; and the Zoological Gardens at Philadel- 
phia, under the direction of Mr. A. B. Brown. 

From time to time specimens have been received in this way, and thus 
a large number of highly-prized additions have been made. The addi- 
tional advantage of having them in the flesh in more or less perfect con- 
dition, enables them to be mounted under the best possible auspices. 

In order to make some return to the contributors, the Institution 
offered to have post-mortem examinations instituted of specimens re- 
ceived, and the cause of death or disease reported to the senders. For 
this purijose the co-operation of the Army Medical Museum was in- 
voked and was cheerfully rendered, and an examination of each subject 
received is usually made under the direction of Dr. John S. Billings. 

The National Museum reserves the skins and skeletons, while the 
Army Medical Museum makes any preparations of the viscera, &c., 
that may be desired by it. 

NECROLOaY. 

From among those connected with the Institution, I have but one 
death to record. 

Edward Foreman, M. D., was born in Baltimore, October 29, 1808. 
After reaching manhood, he was for 12 years an assistant professor in 
the University of Pennsylvania. In 1848, he was appointed an assist- 
ant in the Smithsonian Institution by Professor Henry. He was en- 
gaged in organizing the meteorological system established by the In- 
stitution, and rendered efficient service in this department ; and also 
in conducting the correspondence and arranging the details of the 
scientific lectures. In 1852 he accepted the position of chief examiner 
in the Patent Office, which he retained for eight years. In 1874 he re- 
turned to the Smithsonian Institution as an assistant in the ethnologi- 
cal division of the National Museum. His death occurred April 14, 
1885, at his residence in this city. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The Tyndall Trust Fund. — It will be remembered that when Prof. 
John Tyndall of the Eoyal Institution of Great Britain, at the solicita- 
tion of scientific friends in this country, made a visit to it in the latter 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 26 

part ol 1872, for the purpose of delivering in a few of our principal <jities 
courses of lectures on physical science, he very generously presented 
the entire net proceeds of his lectures to trustees for the purpose of pro- 
moting science in this country. These popular lectures, eloquently pre- 
sented and admirably illustrated experimentally, were attended by large 
and appreciative audiences in Boston, New Haven, New York, Brook- 
lyn, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington. 

Professor Tyndall's trust deed, executed in New York, February 7, 
1873, just before his departure for England, was forwarded with a 
friendly personal letter of the same date, to Professor Henry of this In- 
stitution, and was published in full in the Smithsonian Eeport of 1872, 
pages 104-100. By this grant it was found that he assigned to our peo- 
ple the liberal fund of $13,033, in the following gracious terms, — omitting 
here all but the more essential passages : 

"As an evidence of my good-will toward the people of the United 
States, I desire to devote this sum of $13,033 to the advancement of 
theoretic science and the promotion of original research, especially in 
the department of physics, in the United States. 

''To accomplish this object I hereby appoint Prof. Joseph Henry, Sec- 
retary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington City, D. C, Dr. E. 
L. Youmans, of New York, and General Hector Tyndale, of Philadelphia, 
to act as a board of trustees to take charge of the above sum — to care- 
fully invest it in permanent securities; and I further direct that the 
said board shall, for the present, appropriate the interest of the fund 
in supporting or in assisting to support, at such European universities 
as they may consider most desirable, two American pupils who may 
evince decided talents in physics, and who may express a determina- 
tion to devote their lives to this work. My desire would be that each 
pupil should spend four years at a German university — three of those 
years to be devoted to the acquisition of knowledge, and the fourth to 
original investigation. 

" If however in the progress of science in the United States, it should 
at any time appear to the said board that the end herein proposed 
would be better subserved by granting aid to students, or for some 
special researches in this country, the board is authorized to make the 
appropriations from the income of the fund for such purposes. 

" I further direct that vacancies which may occur in said board, by 
death or otherwise, shall be filled by the president of the National 
Academy of Sciences," 

Even with the wise and far-seeing provision for discretion of judg- 
ment vested in the trustees by the donor, they experienced much 
greater difficulty in satisfactorily carrying into effect the enlightened 
I)urpose of the grant than could have been anticipated. One promising 
student, in the uncertainty of devoting his life to the career of scientific 
research contemplated, very honorably returned to the trustees the sum 
advanced to him. Another, after hesitating as to the condition of re- 
maining for four years in a German or other European university, 
finally declined to avail himself of the opportunity afforded him. It 
thus resulted, from the conscientious administration of the trust, and 
the earnest desire of the trustees to execute the expressed wishes of 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Professor Tjndall, that but a small portion of tlie income of the fund 
has been expended, and the original sum has been thereby augmented. 

On the death of two of the trustees — Professor Henry, at Washing- 
ton, and General H, Tyndale, at Philadelphia, — Dr. F. A. P. Barnard, of 
New York, and Prof. Joseph Lovering, of Cambridge, Mass., were duly 
appointed as their successors; and how judiciously the trustees have 
continued to husband the resources committed to them is sufficiently 
evinced by the remarkable fact that the Tyndall fund has now ac- 
cumulated, by the constant addition to it of the unappropriated income, 
from the original sum of $13,000, to $32,000. 

Under these circumstances the distinguished donor has been induced 
to modify the original conditions of the gift, so as to divide the in- 
creased principal into three separate funds (of nearly $11,000 each), and 
to give the charges thereof, respectively, to Harvard College at Cam- 
bridge, Columbia College at New York, and the University of Pennsyl- 
vania at Philadelphia, for the perpetual maintenance in each of these 
institutions of learning, of a graduate fellowship in the department of 
physics. There can be little doubt that this change of the direction 
was, under the peculiar circumstances, eminently judicious; and that 
the several endowments will constitute brilliant prizes to aspiring 
American students, and will greatly contribute to the noble purpose of 
their founder — the stimulation of original research, and the advance- 
ment of physical science in the United States. 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Arrangement of material. — The regular work of the Museum has been 
considerably interrupted during the six months now under consideration 
by the participation of the Museum in the World's Industrial and Cotton 
Centennial Exposition at New Orleans. Several members of the staff 
were in attendance at this exposition, in custody of the collections of the 
Museum there displayed, and in May and June ten curators and me- 
chanics were sent to New Orleans to attend to the re-packing and for- 
warding of the collections sent by the Smithsonian Institution, as well 
as to care for the numerous exhibits transferred to the Museum by for- 
eign and domestic exhibitors at the close of the exposition. The extent 
of these accessions was very considerable. One hundred and seventy-six 
thousand pounds of exhibits were sent to New Orleans. Of this amount 
138,624 pounds were sent direct, 19,814 pounds from Cincinnati, and 
17,031 pounds from Louisville, at each of which places the Smithsonian 
Institution had displayed large exhibits during the summer of 1884 
320,744 pounds were returned, including 51,267 pounds received from the 
State Department, whose valuable exhibit, gathered by the United States 
consuls all over the world, was transferred in bulk to the National Mu- 
seum with the understanding that a limited number of loan exhibits 
were reserved for return to their owners. Besides this amount, 74^489 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

pounds were acquired by gifts from Mexico aud other sources. In ad- 
dition to the collections consigned directly to the Museum from IN'ew 
Orleans, the importan t collection illustrating the uses of American woods, 
gathered for the exhibit of the Agricultural Department by Mr. William 
Saunders, has, since its receipt in Washington, been delivered to the 
Museum. At the beginning of July a considerable portion of the collec- 
tions had already been received, aud many of the exhibition halls of the 
Museum, which before this time had been reduced to an appearance of 
order, were becoming filled up with the unopened boxes and cases. It is 
however confidently expected that before the end of the calendar year 
the new material will be unpacked aud brought under control. A 
special appropriation of $7,500 was made by Congress for the packing 
and forwarding'of the new material, and for repairing and reinstalling 
the original collection. The ISTew' Orleans Exposition, although its in- 
fluence was perhaps less comprehensive than that at Philadelphia in 
1876, has nevertheless accomplished a great work in the South and 
West, both from commercial and educational standpoints, and in my 
judgment the money appropriated for the display of the Smithsonian 
Institution (including the United States National Museum and Fish 
Commission) has been productive of important results to the country. 
There can be no doubt that the National Museum has been the gainer 
by the undertaking, although the work of final arrangement has re- 
ceived a temporary set-back. 

The general work of the Museum has been for the most part of the 
same character as that described in my reports for the last three years, 
and in ilearly every department the curator states that decided progress 
has been made in the development both of the study and the exhibition 
series of specimens. The work of case-construction has been steadily 
carried forward, and during.the coming year the collections will be more 
thoroughly classified than has hitherto been possible, by the assignment 
of definite space for each department in the exhibition halls. The gal- 
leries of the main exhibition hall in the Smithsonian building have been 
cleared of the old exhibition cases, which proved to be inadequate to 
present needs, aud the space is being used temporarily for the overhaul- 
ing and arrangement of certain large collections in the departments of 
birds, moUusks, marine invertebrates, invertebrate paleontology, and 
ethnology. This step has been found absolutely necessary, since the 
space in the crowded laboratory rooms was not sufiicient to admit of 
any general rearrangement. 

Museum Publications. — The various publications of the Museum have 
been, as hitherto, under the editorial supervision of Dr. Tarleton H. 
Bean. The seventh volume of the "Proceedings" was finished in Feb- 
ruary, and of the eighth volume, the printing of which was begun iu 
March, 221 pages were printed prior to the 1st of July. At the present 
time four Bulletins are in the hands of the printer, No. 23, "Biblio- 
graphy of the Publications of Isaac Lea, LL. D., by Newton Pratt 



28 REPORT OF THE SECKETAEY. 

Scudder: No. 28, "A manual of American Laud Shells," by W. G. Bin- 
ney: No. 29, " Kesults of Ornithological Explorations in the Comman- 
der Islands and in Kamtschatka," by Leonhard Stejneger, and No. 30, 
'Bibliography of Publications relating to the collection of fossil inver- 
tebrates in the United States National Museum, including complete 
lists of the writings of Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles 
D. Walcott," by John Belknap Marcou.* Circular 32, " Classification 
of the Materia Medica Collection of the U. S. National Museum, and 
Catalogue of Specimens," by Dr. James M. Flint, revised and extended 
by Dr. Henry G. Beyer ; and Circular 33, " Notes on the preparation of 
rough skeletons," by Frederic A. Lucas, have also been published. 

The publication of the special report upon the fisheries of the United 
States, in quarto, which, in addition to its descriptive, historical, and 
statistical contents, will in reality constitute a monograph of the Amer- 
ican portion of the fisheries collection in the Museum, has been going 
through the press under the supervision of the Assistant Director and 
Mr. A. H. Clark, who are rendering this service to the Fish Commission 
as volunteers. 

Museum Library. — The accessions to the Museum library, including 
books and pamphlets, have been 454. Early in the year Mr. H. W. 
Spofford was appointed assistant to Mr. F. W. True, the librarian. 

Visitors. — The total number of visitors to the National Museum dur- 
ing the first half of 1885 was 107,365, a daily average of 692f . 

Meetings in the Lecture Hall. — The lecture hall, as in previous years, 
has been used for the meetings of several societies, viz, the National 
Academy of Sciences, the American Fisheries Society, the Biological 
Society of Washington, the Society of Naturalists of North America, 
and the Entomological Society of Washington. 

Saturday Lectures. — Twelve Saturday lectures, under the auspices of 
the Biological and Anthropological Societies of Washington, were de- 
livered in the lecture hall on successive Saturday afternoons, and were 
well attended. Many of these lectures had direct reference to the work 
of the Museum, and were illustrated by specimens from the cases. 

Museum Report. — A special report ujion the Museum having been or- 
dered by Congress, the reports of the Assistant Director and curators 
for the year 1884, together with the accompanying statistics and the 
scientific paj)ers based upon the collections in the National Museum, 
have been in a measure separated from the regular Smithsonian report, 
forming Part II of the same, and being arranged in a separate volume. 

In accordance with my custom in previous years, I shall here present 
a brief review of what has been accomplished in each department, refer- 
ring to the special Museum report for the full discussion of the additions 



'These form Parts II and III of ''Bibliographies of American Naturalists," and are 
shaped in refsrence to the long contemplated scheme of publishing a complete bibli- 
ographical record of all papers relating to the collections in the National Museum. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

to the Museum during the first half of 1885, and of the genera) adminis- 
trative details of the work of the several executive officers. 

Organization of the Scientific Departments.— The organization of cura- 
torships in the several scientific departments is as follows: I, arts and in- 
dustries, the assistant director, G. Brown Goode, acting as curator, di- 
vided into the following sections : («) materia medica, H. G. Beyer, U. S. 
IST,, honorary curator; (&) textile industries, Eomyn Hitchcock, acting 
curator; (c) fisheries, E. Edward Earll, curator ; (d) animal products, E. 
Edward Earll, acting curator; (e) naval architecture, J. W. Collins, 
United States Fish Commission, honorary curator; (/) foods, W. C. At- 
water, acting curator ; [g) historical relics, at present under the charge 
of A. H. Clark. II, A, ethnology, Otis T. Mason, curator, and II, b, 
American prehistoric pottery, William H. Holmes, Bureau of Eth- 
nology, Smithsonian Institution, honorary curator. Ill, antiquities, 
Charles Eau, curator. lY, mammals, Frederick W. True, curator. Y, 

A, birds, Eobert Eidgway, curator; and Y, B, birds' eggs, Charles 
Bendire, U. S. A., honorary curator. Yi^ reptiles and batrachians, 
H. C. Yarrow, U. S. A., honorary curator. YII, fishes, Tarleton H. 
Bean, curator. YIII, comparative anatomy, Frederick W. True, hon- 
orary curator. IX, mollusks, William H. Dall, honorary curator ; X, 
insects, C. Y. Eiley, honorary curator ; XI, marine invertebrates, Eich- 
ard Eathbun, curator. XII, A, invertebrate fossils, (paleozoic.) C. 
D. Walcott, United States Geological Survey, honorary curator; and 
XIT, B, invertebrate fossils, (meso-cenozoic,) C. A. White, United States 
Geological Survey, honorary curator. XIII, a, fossil plants, and XIII, 

B, recent plants, Lester F. Ward, United States Geological Survey, 
houorary curator. XIY, minerals, F. W. Clarke, United States Geo- 
logical Suryey, honorary curator. XY, lithology and physical geol- 
ogy, George P. Merrill, acting curator. XYI, metallurgy and econo- 
mic geology, Fred. P. Dewey, curator. The departments of explora- 
tion and field-work, chemistry, experimental physiology, and vivaria 
are still unorganized. These twenty-seven departments and sections 
are administered by twenty-four curators, honorary curators, and act- 
ing curators, of which number at present only nine receive salaries 
from the Museum appropriation. Of the remaining fifteen, five are of- 
ficers connected with the Geological Survey; one, an officer of the Bureau 
of Ethnology; two, officers of the Fish Commission ; two, officers in the 
United States Army ; one, an officer in the United States Navy ; one, 
an officer in the Agricultural Department; and one, professor of chemis- 
try in Wesleyan University ; the remaining two are Museum officers, 
but receive no salaries for their work in administering upon th6 special 
collections under their charge. 

Department of Arts and Industries. — In the department of arts and 
industries several sections have already been organized ; that of M ateria 
Medica, under the charge of Dr. H. G. Beyer, U. S, "N^., who has been de- 



30 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

tailed for this service by the Surgeon-General of the Navy, is in excel- 
lent condition, and the collection is the most extensive of its kind in 
America. The work of labelling has been finished, and during the year 
the exhibition series will be extended and rearranged. Dr. Beyer is 
prosecuting a chemical investigation of the different species of cinchona 
barks in the collection, numbering over one hundred, and has made 
some important determinations of the alkaloids of some cinchona barks 
from new regions in Guatemala and Costa Rica. He has also carried on 
investigations upon the physiological actions of atropia, cocaine, and 
caffeine, on the circulatory apparatus, the results of which have already 
been published in the "American Journal of the Medical Sciences." 
Other experiments on the action of atropine on the heart and of blood 
at different temperatures on the same, have been discussed in the Pro- 
ceedings of the Museum. 

In the section of foods, under the honorary curatorship of Professor 
Atwater, some progress has been made in the work of building up a 
collection illustrating the physiological action of foods and the composi- 
tion of the human bodv, similar to the famous collection in the Bethnal 
Green Museum, in London. Mr. Hitchcock, who is acting curator of this 
collection, has, however, devoted most of his time to the development of 
the section of textiles, which is directly under his charge. This section 
has been largely increased by donations from abroad, but especially 
through collections made by himself while preparing for the Exposition 
at New Orleans. The object of these collections is twofold, first, to af- 
ford an exhibit of the various textile fibers available for use in this coun- 
try and abroad, with specimens of articles made therefrom, such as cloth, 
rope, twine, mats, &c.; second, to provide a series of specimens of every 
fiber that can be used in the arts, to be used for scientific examination, 
tests of tensile strength, and especially to serve as type specimens 
for the identification of other fibers by microscopical examination. A 
number of collections which have been received are worthy of special 
mention. Among these, a particularly fine set of fibers from Brazil, 
collected by Dr. J. Carlos Berrinni, of Quissaman, who has devoted un- 
usual care and labor to the work. All the textile fibers in the Museum 
of the Department of Agriculture were placed in Mr. Hitchcock's charge 
during January, and from this collection some valuable specimens have 
been selected and placed on exhibition. Mr. George W. Bond, of Boston, 
has selected a large collection of native and foreign wools from samples 
belonging to the United States customs department which have been pre- 
pared for exhibition ; they are not yet on exhibition, as the cases 
for their displaj' have not been made. This collection is probably al- 
ready the best thing of the kind to be found m any museum, and when all 
the wools belonging to the Museum collections are mounted, the display 
of this textile will be, if not quite complete, at least very large and valua- 
ble. Owing to the restricted floor space in the Museum which has been 
assigned to this department, it has been impossible to make the display 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

•of specimens as instinctive and attractive as it might be. By far the 
greater part of the collection, and some of the most interesting speci- 
mens, have been sent to the Exposition at New Orleans, where this de- 
partment was well represented. A detailed account however of the 
display there made would not be of interest in this rei)ort, and the sub- 
ject may be passed over with the statement that there were sent to 
New Orleans 290 unit boxes to represent the textiles department of 
the Museum. The display is said to have been very attractive. Mr. 
Hitchcock has also been requested to take charge of the physical ap- 
j)aratus belonging to the Smithsonian Institution which has been trans- 
ferred to the National Museum and placed in cases. The arrangement 
has been necessarily very unsystematic, owing to the limited space at 
his disposal, but in a general way it is classified under three heads, 
namely, apparatus for experiments on (1) sound, (2) heat and light, 
and (3) electricity. A list of the instruments in this collection (which 
is of interest as having been used by Professor Henry) is in course of 
preparation. In connection with it may be mentioned the relics of 
electrical and chemical apparatus of Dr. Joseph Priestley, which is on 
exhibition in the same place. 

The collection of historical relics has received but little attention 
during the six months, and no effort is at present being made to increase 
its extent. Perhaps no part of the Museum is more attractive to visitors 
than that in which the relics of General Washington are displaced, and 
it is believed that the section of historical relics will receive from year to 
year a constant increment of valuable memorials of the past. The heirs 
of General Eobert E. Lee have presented a claim for the recovery of 
articles of furniture removed from Arlington in 1862, and since then on 
exhibition with the Washington relics at the Patent Office and in the 
Museum. Most of these appear never to have been the property of 
General Washington. They will however be held in the Museum until 
official instructions for their delivery have been received. 

There has been little activity in connection with the section of fish- 
eries, the section of naval architecture, and the collection of musical 
instruments, all of which are however in excellent order and have 
been considerably extended, though without direct effort. 

An illustrated catalogue of the Catlin collection of Indian paintings 
has been prepared by Mr. Thomas Donaldson, and will soon be offered 
for publication. 

Mr. J. E. Watkins, of Camden, N. J., who is one of the leading au- 
thorities in the country upon the history of railroads and steam trans- 
portation, and who is indorsed by many of the leading railroad men of 
the country, was appointed in June honorary curator of the section of 
steam transportation. It is intended, as opportunity offers, to gather 
in the Museum a collection of objects illustrating the history of Amer- 
ican railroads and steamboats, with a view to preserving permanently 
the memorials of the growth of this most important interest which has 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

been so closely connected with the material progress of the United 
States. Several important specimens have already been received, 
notably the "John Bull" locomotive engine, which was built in 1831 
in England by George and Eobert Stephenson for the " Camden and Am- 
boy Eail and Tramway Company," by which this engine was used from 
1831 to 1861. This is now stored at the Armory building, but will be 
placed on exhibition as soon as proper space can be provided. 

Department of Ethnology. — The Curator of this department, Prof. Otis 
T. Mason, having gathered the ethnological material belonging to the 
Museum during the lasthalf of 1884, commenced in 1885 its methodical 
arrangement. The basketry, throwing-sticks, sinew-backed bows, and 
the whole series of arrows, have been studied and classified, so as to 
illustrate their distribution, tribal characteristics, and evolution. It is 
designed to continue this system in the remaining portions of the col- 
lection, with the view of better unfolding through the arts of savagery 
the origin and development of civilization. 

During the past six months the Curator made two official visits to the 
New Orleans Exposition, for the purpose of securing for the National 
Museum some of the material exhibited by the Departments of the Gen- 
eral Government and of foreign countries. By this means the Museum 
has obtained a large number of accessions. Material of especial value 
was also received from Eev, C. H. A. Dall, of Calcutta ; Rev. Dr. George 
W. Samson ; Mr. James Stevenson, of the Bureau of Ethnology, and 
others, which will be fully described in the Report on the National Mu- 
seum. 

Mr. William H. Holmes, of the Bureau of Ethnology, has continued 
the installation of aboriginal pottery, directing his efforts chiefly to la- 
belling, cataloguing, and classifying the accessions received in the sum- 
mer and fall of 1884. The very extensive collections of Pueblo material 
made for the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition in 
New Orleans, arrived too late to be made fully available for exhibition, 
but a small representative series of vessels and other objects of clay 
was forwarded to New Orleans. The collection of ancient pottery, re- 
cently obtained from Chiriqui, Panama, and partly paid for from the 
exposition funds, was also represented. The most important accessions 
have been from the explorations ot Mr. L. H. Aym6, in Mexico. It is 
hoped that a portion, at least, of the pottery court will be opened to 
the public by the end of the present calendar year. 

Department of Antiquities. — Dr. Charles Rau has continued his work 
in the department of antiquities, carrying on toward completion the 
system of arrangement which he began ten years ago. He reports im- 
portant accessions from the Bureau of Ethnology; from explorations of 
Edward Palmer in Arizona; from Oaxaca, Mexico, by L. H. Aym(5; from 
Costa Rica, by J. C. Zeledon ; and from the island of Guadaloupe by L. 
Guesde. An exceedingly valuable collection of casts of the antiquities 
of Mexico and Yucatan has been deposited in the Museum by Senor 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

Eufemio Abadiauo, of Mexico, by whom they were made. This collec- 
tion includes full-size reproductions of several exceedingly important ob- 
jects, such as the Mexican Aztec Calendar Stone, the Sacrificial Stone, 
the Aztec Goddess of Death (Teoyoamiqui), and the wonderful reclining 
figure of Chac-Mool. This collection has been forwarded from New Or- 
leans and will soon be on exhibition, and it is hoped that by some means 
it may ultimately become the property of the Museum. It will be in- 
stalled by the side of the Lorillard collection and other Central Amer- 
ican antiquities. These two collections of casts, together with the orig- 
inals already in i)08session of the Museum, will entirely fill one of the 
small exhibition galleries and constitute a display of native American 
sculpture and architecture which is equalled nowhere else in the world. 

Department of Mammals. — At the beginning of the year the work of 
the mammal department, incident upon the preparation of a collection 
to be exhibited in New Orleans, having been entirely completed, the 
regular routine work was resumed. The mammal exhibition hall had 
been rendered less attractive than formerly by the removal of numerous 
large specimens for the New Orleans Exposition, and a temporary re- 
arrangement of the collections was attempted in order to make the 
vacancies less conspicuous. During the first quarter of the year thirty- 
three mounted specimens were added to the exhibition series, including 
several large forms, such as a Siberian sheep, a baboon, &c. A list of 
all the mounted mammals was made in February, and soon afterwards 
temporary labels were written and distributed among the specimens. 
Manuscript for printed labels for the entire* series was also prepared. 

In April the director of the Museum offered a reward for the capture 
of a specimen of a spotted dolphin, said to be abundant in the Gulf of 
Mexico. A fresh specimen was soon afterwards received through Messrs. 
Warren & Stearns, of Pensacola, Fla., and proved to be of remarkable 
scientific interest. On the 9th of April three telegrams were received 
from life-saving station keepers announcing the stranding of cetaceans, 
two having reference to blackfish stranded near Cape Henry, and the 
third to a fin-back whale ashore near Truro, Mass. The most interesting 
cetacean specimens received during the half-year were a male pygmy 
sperm-whale [Kogia) and the skull of an Atlantic right-whale [Balccna 
cisarctica). 

Messrs. Barnum, Bailey, and Hutchinson, Mr. Adam Forepaugh, and 
tlie authorities of the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens (through Mr. A. 
E. Brown), and the Central Park Menagerie (through Mr. W. A. Conk- 
lin), have continued to send many interesting animals in the flesh. 

In June the chief taxidermist was ordered to New Orleans to super- 
intend the packing of the mammals exhibited in that city. During his 
stay he negotiated an exchange in behalf of the Museum by which three 
valuable species of quadrumaua were acquired, including a specimen of 
the interesting gibbon, Rylobates concolor. The New Orleans exliibit 
H. Mis. 15 3 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

was not received at the Museum until after the 1st of July. (For a An- 
tailed account of this collection see Museum Report, 1884, p. 129.) 

At the beginning of the year an office and a commodious laboratory 
in the southwest pavilion of the Museum building were assigned to this 
department. The collections are thereby made more accessible than 
formerly. 

Department of Birds.— ^ir. Eidgway, curator of birds, reports that by 
direction he prepared for exhibition at the Kew Orleans World's Cotton 
Exposition a collection of North American game birds, numbering 163 
finely mounted specimens, and representing nearly all the species. The 
exhibit was at first intended to be much more comprehensive, the original 
plan being to exhibit all the known species of North American birds, so 
far as they could be secured, together with typical groups to illustrate 
the avian fauna of the several zoo-geographical divisions of the earth's 
surface. To this end more than 700 specimens were mounted on special 
contract, it being impossible to make up a suitable collection from the 
birds already mounted. The collection had been nearly completed on the 
original plan when it became necessary, on account of the limited space 
available, to make the great reduction which ensued. This collection 
was installed by Dr. Leouhard Stejneger, assistant curator, who for the 
purpose left Washington January 3, and returned on the 16th of the 
month. Dr. Stejneger reports that "in regard to completeness, perfec- 
tion of mounting and preservation, scientific exactness, and popular in- 
structiveness," this collection " was superior to any other ornithological 
exhibit at the exposition." The collection filled two double Museum 
cases, fitted with two rows of terraced shelves, the exhibition surface 
amounting to a little over 600 square feet. Each specimen was mounted 
on a stand of polished black walnut, and provided with a printed label 
on which were printed in large, clear type both the scientific and popular 
names. The curator also calls attention to the " American Ornitholo- 
gists' Union," which was formed at the urgent request of the various 
ornithological interests of the country for the main purpose of harmon- 
izing existing differences in the nomenclature of North American birds, 
and thereby removing the most serious obstacle to the study of ornithol- 
ogy. At the meeting of organization in New York City a " committee on 
classification and nomenclature" was formed, of which the curator of the 
department of birds of the United States National Museum was made a 
member ; and this committee, in pursuance of a call from the chairman, 
held a meeting in Washington, from the 15th to the 23d of April, inclu- 
sive, in the oflice of this department, the collections of which wereS ap- 
pealed to in all cases where there was a difference of opinion among mem- 
bers of the committee, and many perplexing problems were settled to the 
satisfaction of the committee as a whole. The importance to ornithol- 
ogy of this meeting, together with one held the previous year in the office 
of this department, can scarcely be overstated, the whole subject of zo- 
ological nomenclature having been exhaustively reviewed and a care- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

fully prepared code adopted, in which the satisfactory rules of the exist- 
ing codes were adopted and their unwieldy provisions rejected. This 
new code has been the guide of the committee in the preparation of a 
new list of North American birds, and will, without much doubt, be 
adopted by zoologists generally. The curator having been charged by 
the above mentioned committee with the determination of names of 
North American birds according to the new code of nomenclature, this 
duty has been carefully performed, and the copy for the new list put in 
the hands of the president of the union. At this date the list is being 
printed. The naturalists of the United States Fish Commission steamer 
Albatross having made an extensive collection of birds on the almost 
unknown island of Cozumel, off the coast of Yucatan, it became the 
duty of the curator, as a part of his official work, to determine the spe- 
cies and describe those which proved new to science. The latter were 
no less than nineteen in number, of which the greater part have already 
been published, while the remainder are described in a full report upon 
the collection now being printed as a part of Volume VIII of the "Pro- 
ceedings of the National Museum." The ofi'er of the mounted birds — 
which had for some years been on exhibition in the museum of the De- 
partment of Agriculture, having been accepted by the National Museum, 
the transfer of the specimens to the Smithsonian building was effected 
during the month of May. Tbis collection, numbering 712 specimens, con- 
sisted largely of common North American birds, the mounting of which 
was not up to the standard required for exhibition in the Museum col- 
lection. Being however suitable for purely educational purposes, this 
surplus stock is at present being made up into sets for distribution to 
schools or other public educational establishments which may require 
such material. ■ The remainder of the collection, consisting of a very 
good series of the different varieties of the domesticated fowl and a 
smaller number of specimens of exotic Phasianidse, has been properly 
arranged for exhibition in the Museum cases. Mr. Eidgway reports the 
accession of 3,681 specimens of birds and 185 specimens of nests and 
eggs. 

Department of Fishes. — Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, curator of the department 
of fishes, reports 297 entries on the catalogue. The most important collec- 
tions were made, as usual, by the vessels of the United States Fish Com- 
mission. The Albatross collections which are discussed in the Museum 
report are very large and important. The curator was aboard this 
steamer from the 3d of January to the 20th of February, during her work 
off the southern coast, and in the West Indies, Caribbean Sea, and the Gulf 
of Mexico, up to the time of her arrival at New Orleans. He was sent out 
to make observations upon the living specimens of the deep-sea fishes 
and upon the southward range of the east coast food fishes. During the 
week spent at the island of Cozumel he had opportunity, incidentally, 
of aiding Mr. Benedict in securing a large series of the birds of that 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

i>sl;in(l, while the seining for fishes along the shore yielded 57 species. 
At New Orleans a short time was spent in attaching descriptive labels 
to easts of fishes in the Exposition. 

Department of Comparative Anatomy. — This department is under the 
care of Mr. F. W. True, curator of mammals. Early in the year a number 
of exhibition cases were set up in the east south range, and in the latter 
part of February a provisional arrangement of the exhibition series of 
vertebrate skeletons was eflected. A month later the entire collection of 
bird skeletons was brought from the Smithsonian building and stored in 
the range. An arrangement was made with the authorities of the Army 
Medical Museum for the exchange of a collection of human skulls for 
skeletons and skulls of North American vertebrates, and in April the 
first in stallmeut, consisting of about 500 skulls and 350 skeletons of 
North American vertebrates, was transferred to the United States Na- 
tional Museum. An agreement was also entered into between the Army 
Medical Museum and the National Museum to undertake post-mortem 
examination of animals in the flesh received by the Institution, aud of 
which the donors desired to know the cause of death. A series of casts 
of bones of Dinoceras, presented by Prof. O. 0. Marsh, was also placed 
on exhibition. The osteological preparator and his assistant were con- 
stantly engaged in cleaning skeletons and mounting them for exhibi- 
tion. One of the most interesting of the recently exhibited skeletons is 
that of Ehytina gigan, obtained in Bering Island by Dr. L. Stejneger for 
the Institution. Some progress has been made in the preparation of a 
series of specimens illustrative of the modifications of the limbs and 
other portions of the skeletons in the different classes of vertebrates. 
Experiments in special cases for the exhibition of this and other simi- 
lar series have proved very successful. But little work has been done 
in connection with the reserve series except for the purpose of deter 
mining whether the specimens were in good order. 

Depart)n€nt of MoUusJcs. — This department has been making extra- 
ordinary progress under the charge of Mr. William H. Dall, assisted by 
Dr. K. E. C. Stearns. Mr. Dall reports that the department under his 
charge has been making steady advance in its administration ui)on the 
mass of accumulations of the last ten years, and, except in regard to the 
New Orleans exhibit, has little more to offer than a record of such un 
eventful work which is indispensable for making the collections useful 
for the paleontologist or the conchologist who may desire to consult it. 
The most interesting accession was a small lot of Japanese shells con- 
tributed by Mr. Uchimura, which contains several great rarities. The 
preparation of material for the New Orleans Exposition, which absorbed 
sev^eral months' time prior to the beginning of the year, was completed 
under the direction of Dr. Stearns, so that the boxes containing the 
specimens and the cases required for their display reached their desti- 
nation and were ready for arrangement early in January. About the 
juiddle of the month Dr. Stearns x)roceedcd to New Orleans and re- 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 37 

mained thiire nntil the installiitioii of Ibis exhibit was completed. The 
exhibit in this di\'isiou of natural history probably surpassed, in extent 
and general excellence, any previously made at any ^^reat Exhibition. 
It was arranged in 21 table-cases, the specimens beiug placed in inside 
trays and labelled. The general system followed was a geographical 
one, and presented a characteristic representation of the more con- 
spicuous and interesting forms of the vaiious zoological geographical 
provinces. The exhibit included several cases of the fresh-water mus- 
sels of the Mississippi drainage area, which is remarkable for the great 
number and beauty of the shells ; also the rare and peculiar forms be- 
longing to this group from other parts of the world. The land and i)ond 
snails of the Mississip])i basin were each represented by a separate case. 
The marine shells of the Atlantic coast of America from the Arctic Sea 
to the Caribbean, and the sea-shells of the Pacific coast from Bering Sea 
to Panama, were also shown, including the principal species inhabiting 
the tidal areas of Paget Sound to the north and the Gulf of California 
to the south. Other cases contained selected si)ecimens from the Indo- 
Pacific region, such as live in the warm waters of the great coral areas 
of the tro})ical and semi-tropical seas between the shores of Western 
America and Eastern Asia. Four cases were devoted to the edible 
moUusca of the United States. Two of these contained clams, cockles, 
&c., of the Atlantic seaboard, and two cases were devoted to similar 
forms peculiar to the coast of Western North America from Alaska to 
San Diego, Cal. The systematic and critical selection of the foregoing 
involved a great deal of work and the overhauling of a large quantity 
of material, the accumulation of many years. This labor was however 
incidentally advantageous to the Museum, as a considerable portion of 
the work consisted in the examination and partial preparation of mol- 
luscan material, hereafter to be incorporated in the national collection, 
and of very, great importance for reference in connection with the study 
of fossil forms of the Quaternary or even of the Tertiary age. Unlike 
the results to some other departments of the Museum, the Exposition 
contributed little or nothing to this section, and indeed the Museum 
was the only contributor of an important molluscan exhibit. 

Department of Insects. — Prof. C. V. 'R]ley continues to perform the 
duties of curator without assistance; but arrangements have been made 
for the appointment of a paid assistant curator for the next fiscal year. 
Professor liiley reports a number of important accessions, including a 
large collection of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera sent from Sikkim by the 
Rev. C. H. A. Dall, of Calcutta. A varied collection of insects was se- 
cured by the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross from 
tlie West Indian region, and an important general collection of alco- 
holic maieiial was received from Dr. P. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A., stationed 
at Fort Wingate, New Mexico. The most valuable addition to the collec 
tion during these six months, from a classificatory standpoint, however, 
was the dipterological collection of Mr. Edward Burgess, treasurer of the 



38 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

Boston Society of Natural History, which was obtained by purchase; 
while the most valuable, from a popular and economic view, is the ex- 
hibit collection prepared for the New Orleans Exposition. This has 
been returned with little injury, and is only awaiting space for perma- 
nent exhibition in the Museum. It is made up of the following material, 
arranged in cases made on the same unit plan as those of the Museum : 

(1) Insects injurious to Agriculture. — Arranged according to the partic- 
ular plant and the particular i)art of the plant affected, and containing, as 
far as i^ossible, the different states of growth of the insect, its enemies 
and parasites, a statement of the remedies or preventives available, and 
a reference to the chief articles where full information can be found upon 
it. These references are principally to Government and State reports, 
to which the farmer will most likely have access. 

(2) Insecticide Substances. — In the catalogue of this collection the aim 
has been to add, as briefly as possible, a statement of the method of 
using, such substances, so that whenever in the first section a particular 
substance is recommended for a particular insect, the reader can turn 
to this second section for further details. 

(3) Insecticide Machinery and Contrivances for Destroying Insects. — In 
the catalogue of this section there is also added such information as 
will add to the instructive value of the exhibit, and a large proportion 
of the more useful contrivances are such as have been designed and 
perfected in the work of the entomological division, or of the United 
States Entomological Commission during the past five years. 

(4) Bee-culture. — This collection is designed to show all the more val-- 
uable methods and contrivances now in use among the advanced apia- 
rians. 

(5) Silk-culture. — In this collection the aim has been to make the exhibit 
instructive rather than full in detail. The collection includes, in addi- 
tion to the foregoing, a number of framed plates, both colored and plain, 
which have been prepared in the work of the division ; and a number of 
Prof. Eiley's enlarged colored diagrams of some of the more important 
injurious insects were also used. A catalogue of this exhibit has been 
published under the direction of the Department of Agriculture, giving 
a full and detailed statement of its contents. 

The routine work of the department has consisted in answering let- 
ters and in acknowledging and determining accessions. A good deal 
of work has also been done in the proper arrangement and classifying 
of material, particularly in the Micro- Lepidoptera and in the Lepidoptera 
generally. In this work Professor Eiley was assisted by Mr. Albert 
Koebele, who was detailed from the Department of Agriculture for the 
purpose. 

The researches in entomology have been made chiefly in connection 
with Prof. Eiley's work for the Department of Agriculture; and some 
of the results have been published in the bulletins and publications of 
said Department. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

Department of Marine Invertebrates. — IMr. Eichard Rathbun, curator, 
reports that the most important adclitiou to this department was made 
by the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross in April, on 
her return from a three months' cruise in the Gulf of Mexico, mainly 
spent in investigating tlie grouper and red-snapper fishing grounds oif 
our southern coast. The collection turned over to the Museum was 
much larger and contained many more novelties than that made by 
the Albatross in the same region and the Caribbean Sea the previous 
year, and the unassorted materials filled nearly 1,000 packages of all 
sizes. Of most interest was a series of several hundred specimens of 
sea-lilies, mostly collected off Havana, Cuba, and representing the 
various stages of growth of two species of Pentaerinus and of one of 
Rhizocrinus. Over 30 species of Echini, or sea-urchins, were also con- 
tained in the collection, and other divisions of the Echinodermata, as 
well as the Ccelenterata, Crustacea, and Mollusca, were very fully rep- 
resented. The bathymetrical range covered by these explorations ex- 
tended from the shore level to a depth of 1,467 fathoms. Prof. A. 
E. Verrill, of New Haven, has transferred to the Museum over 1,000 
packages of identified specimens resulting from the explorations of 
the Fish Commission in former years. Mr. Henry Hemphill continued 
his collecting on the Florida coast, begun the previous winter, until 
]\iarch of this year, and has contributed several cases of specimens 
belonging to many groups. The other principal accessions have been 
a fine series of the sea-urchins and star-fishes of the west coast of 
Mexico from Mr. A. Forrer, numerous specimens of Pacific corals and 
echinoderms from Dr. R. E. 0, Stearns, and the collection of marine 
invertebrates made by Lieut. George M. Stoney, U. S. N., in Alaska, 
iu 1884. Much progress has been made in the determination and cat- 
aloguing of specimens. Prof. Walter Faxon has completed his studies 
of the collection of crayfishes, Y;^hich is now the second in the United 
States in size and number of species, being exceeded only by that 
at the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge. It contains 4G 
North American species. The collection of echini, which holds the 
same relative rank, has also been almost completely identified, and other 
groups are being rapidly worked over. In June the west hall of the 
Smithsonian building, devoted to the exhibition of marine invertebrates, 
was opened to the public, and rlthough the collections now^ displayed 
fill only the wall cases surrounding the room, they present a very credit- 
able appearance, and all the groups belonging to this department are 
represented to a greater or less extent. The dried collections not on 
display have been mostly transferred to the northwest gallery of the 
main hall, which will also serve as a general w^ork-room for the depart- 
ment. Soon after the middle of June the curator and his assistants 
left for Wood's Holl, Mass., to take part in the summer exi)lorations of 
the United States Fish Commission. 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Department of Invertehraie FofisU.s {Paleozoic). —Mr. Ciiarles D. Wnl- 
cott, honorary curator of this department, reports that his principjil 
work has consisted in identifying and labelling a collection of Carbon- 
iferous fossils which were in the old Smithsonian collection. This work 
is now well advanced, and will soon be completed as far as identifying 
the species from the old records can be done. In the laboratory the 
time of the curator has been chiefly devoted to the preparation and 
stndy of the Cambrian fiiunas of IsTorth America. This has been done 
in connection with his work for the Geological Survey. A large num- 
ber of types and a great quantity of specimens of described species 
will be added to the Museum collections as a result of this work. A 
number of minor accessions have been received from various persons 
throughout the country. A large addition was made to the collection 
in the latter part of 1884, a full discussion of which was presented in 
the report for that year, and another valuable contribution from the 
Geological Survey will i)robably be made in the latter part of the pres- 
ent year. 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils {Meso-cenos;oic).—Jh: C'harles A. 
White, the honorary curator of this department, states that a number 
of iti3})ortant accessions have been received during the first six months 
of this year, and that some of them constitute new additions to the col- 
lection. Descriptions of these have been i)ublished in the various bul- 
letins of the United States Geological Survey. The work of preparing 
the collections of the Museum has been in i)rogress, and tlie installation 
of types has been commenced. Since the beginning of the year con- 
siderable space has been assigned to this department in the gallery of 
the Smithsonian Institution, and the work of i)repariug materials for 
exhibition has steadily progressed. The space in the southeast court 
of the Museum building is occupied by specimens belonging to this de- 
l)artment which have been turned over by the Geological Survey to 
the Museum, and in this court the collections are prepared for instal- 
lation. 

Departments of Fossil and liecent Plants. — Prof. Lester F. Ward, cura- 
tor, reports that the work of his department was exclusively confined 
to fossil plants until near the close of the year 1884, and no collections 
of recent plants were received until February last, when rooms were 
assigned to him for the purpose, and the large Joad collection from 
Kew was placed in his charge. With this Professor Ward joined his 
own collection, consisting of nearly 5,000 species. The two collections 
combined form a nucleus of not less than 14,000 species, including 
twice as many herbarium specimens for a future herbarium. He sub- 
mits the following suggestion : 

" All botanical collections have for many years been turned over to 
the Department of Agriculture, to be cared for by the botanist of thtit 
Department. When in 1881 I was requested to take charge of the 
fossil plants of the National jNIuseum, and consented to do so, I per- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

ceived at once tlie great iiiconvcnieiice wliicli this arraiijjement would 
cause to tlie department oi" fossil plants. The collections of fossil plants 
were largely undetermined, and required to be studied ;ind identified. 
Most of them were from recent formations, and represented types of veg- 
etation still living, requiring constant comparison with the recent forms 
to be seen in herbaria. Even the installation and care of those that were 
named necessitated such comparison, and the difficulties of this nature 
that were encountered were very great. It was rarely possible to carry 
the fossils to the Department of Agriculture, and as it was usually 
necessary to search through large families of ])lant8, the temporary 
transportation of the botanical specimens was still more impracticable. 
1 therefore early began to urge the establishment at the Museum of a 
permanent collection of the j^lants still growing in America and other 
countries where the analogues of fossil plants were likely to occur. 
While I am highly gratified at the progress in this direction already 
made, as reported above, it must however be evident that only a begin- 
ning has thus far been made, and that the jiresent collection of living 
plants is still very inadequate. The Joad collection represents chiefly 
the flora of Southern Europe, which is widely different from all Tertiary 
floras, and especially so from the Cretaceous and Tertiary floras of North 
America. The collections that I have made are exclusively American, 
and, so far as they go, are valuable aids to the study of American fossil 
plants, but they are, of course, too limited in extent to be trusted in 
critical cases. The parts of the world next after those in North Ameri- 
ca with which our fossil floras most closely agree, are Eastern Asia, the 
East Indies, Australia, and South Africa, and from all these vast re- 
gions scarcely any representatives are to be found in the present her- 
barium of the National Museum. It is therefore highly desirable, as a 
necessary adjunct to the department of fossil plants, and aside from 
the still greater desideratum of establishing a truly national herbarium 
at the Museum, that all reasonable efforts be made to enlarge and en- 
rich the botanical collections." 

The technical botanical work of the department has been intrusted to 
Mr. Frank H. Knowlton, who in addition to identifying and installing 
the material, has devoted much time to bibliographical research, and to 
the development of the sectional library. Very large collections have 
been made by Mr. A. L. Schott during the spring and summer nnmths 
from the parks and gardens of the city. These collections are designed 
primarily to aid in the preparation of a catalogue of the ornamental plants 
of Washington, but while serving this purpose, they are at the same time 
valuable accessions to the herbarium and highly useful in connection 
with the study of fossil plants. In collecting and preserving these speci- 
mens Mr. Schott has shown great industry ami skill. In addition to 
this work Mr. Schott has undertaken the preparation of a check-list of 
genera from the "GeneraPlantarum" of Bentham and Hooker, of which 
about half the manuscript was completed at the end of June. The time 
of the curator was almost exclusively spent in the study and determina- 
tion of fossil i»]ants collected by himself, and over one hundred species, 
many of which are new, were identified and will be duly incorporated 
ill the Museum collections. 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Department of Minerals. — This department has been under the charge 
of Prof. F. W. Clarke, assisted by Mr. William S. Yeates. There have 
been made during the first half of the year 534 entries, representing 
2,137 specimens, all of which are new accessions, except 138 specimens 
which were found in the old collections without evidence of having been 
l^reviously catalogued. Eighteen sets of minerals have been sent out 
as exchanges, comprising about 1,200 specimens, and much valuable 
material has been obtained in return. This department was represented 
at New Orleans by collections of the minerals from which are obtained 
gems and ornamental stones, and also by a collection of cut and polished 
stones. These collections attracted the general attention of connois- 
seurs and visitors at the Exposition. The minerals were classified after 
Dana's system, and were arranged in seven flat-top table-cases. The 
gems were disj^layed in two cases, the specimens being mounted on 
white and black velvet pads. This dej^artmeut did not secure a large 
amount of new material from the New Orleans Exi^osition, most of the 
mineral collections on exhibition beloQging to private individuals, to 
whom the agents were responsible for the safe return of their specimens- 
One-half of the southwest court has been assigned to this department 
as its exhibition space, and the collections have been removed thither. 

Department of Litliology and Physical Geology. — The curator, Mr. 
George P. Merrill, was on duty at the New Orleans Exposition at the 
beginning of the year, but has nevertheless accomplished very satis- 
factory results in the work of reinstalling the collections upon the ex- 
tended floor-space recently assigned to this department. The opening 
of the year found the affairs of this dejiartment in a quiescent though 
somewhat confused state, owing to the fact that since the preceding 
July the entire energies of the working force had been devoted to the 
preparation of the exhibit designed for the New Orleans Exposition, 
and the regular work of the Museum had consequently fallen behind. 
The special exhibit was completed late in December and the extra 
hands discharged. This exhibit consisted of (1) a collection of 358 
specimens of building and ornamental stones of the United States in 
the form of four-inch cubes; (2) a collection of some 12 specimens of 
foreign and native marbles in the form of polished slabs; (3) a collec- 
tion of 150 specimens of rock-forming minerals; (4) a collection called 
a "structural series," intended to represent all the common forms of 
rock structure and texture; (5) a collection of 198 specimens of rock 
illustrating the geology and lithology of the Comstock lode and Wa- 
shoe district, Nevada ; and (6) a lithological collection comprising 500 
specimens of various rocks; this last together with numbers 3 and 4 
forming a part of the regular educational series of the Museum. As 
these collections were all fully described in the report of this depart- 
ment for 1884, no further reference to them in this place is necessary. 
The large quantity of building-stone and other material occupying 
the space in the southwest court, was removed and stored temporarily 



REPORT OF THE SECRETAKY. 43 

in a shed outside tlie eastern entrance to the Musenm, the court being 
thus available for exhibition purposes. By a reassignment of exhibi- 
tion space, the exhibition area of this department was made to include 
the whole of the west-south range, instead of a portion of this range 
and a portion of the court, as heretofore. The new arrangement is 
vastly preferable both on account of the better light thus obtained and 
of greater convenience in arranging and classifying the exhibit. In May 
the force of the department was again increased by the addition of one 
aid, one clerk, and three stone-cutters, and the preparation of a collec- 
tion of building-stones commenced for the American Museum of Natural 
History in New York. This collection will, when complete, comprise not 
less than one thousand specimens, and an equal number of thin sections 
for microscopical study. This work was still in i^rogress at the end of 
June. The number of entries in the department catalogue during the 
six months has been 486, comprising some 700 specimens. These will 
be fully described in the Museum report for the first half of 1885. Con- 
siderable time has been devoted to the preparation of the various ex- 
hibition series, particularly those included nuder lithology, and histori- 
cal, dynamical, and structural geology. The last three are as yet far 
from completion, and at the present rate of progress, which is neces- 
sarily very limited, must so continue for several years. On this point 
Mr. Merrill comments as follows: 

"I may, perhaps, be pardoned for mentioning here the fact that from 
past experience, 1 am convinced that the only satisfactory way in which 
these last-named branches of my department can be built up, is to 
allow the curator, or some experienced person, a certain sum of money 
to be expended either in the i)urchase of collections under his direct 
supervision, or of especially desirable material. A very considerable 
portion of the material now necessary for this purpose is of such a 
nature — principally on account of the bulk and weight of the speci- 
mens — as to be beyond the scope of the ordinary collector, and in too 
little demand to be found in many of the natural-history stores. 1 
might mention such examples as fault structure, examples of folds, 
contortion, false bedding, &c., which can scarcely be obtained by other 
than the means suggested." 

Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology. — At the opening of 
the year the curator, Mr. F. P. Dewey, was still detained at New Or- 
leans, arranging the collection which had been sent from his depart- 
ment to the Exposition, and he did not return to Washington till the 
middle of January. The design of the special exhibit of this dei)artment 
was to show, as far as the time and means at his disposal would per- 
mit, the prominent occurrences of each metal, the methods of extract 
ing the metals from their ores, and the utilization of the metals. To 
these were added a few illustrations of non-metallic ores and their 
utilization, including a very extensive and valuable illustration of the 
coal industry. ]Most of the ore material was selected from the Museum 
collection, and only a very few new collections were made. These lat- 
ter were taken upon a systematic i)lan representing the mine as a unit 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

rather than to gather a few specimens selected at random, as is usually 
done. In following the plan, specimens were taken to represent sections . 
across and up and down the vein, and to show an average of the product 
of the vein, while to these were added the walls and other interesting 
material. In representing the extraction and utilization of the metals, 
the plan adopted was to begin with the ore as it leaves the mine, and to 
follow it through the various steps in all the operations to the production 
of the finished article, showing, when i)ossible, every material entering into 
each operation, as well as every product of each operation. In the case of 
coal, the collections were based largely on the ethnological aspects of the 
question, and thus included many specimens aside from those of an eco- 
nomic or geological value. Throughout the new collections of the depart- 
ment special attention has been paid to gathering as full and complete a de- 
scription of everything shown as possible, while the pictorial side of the 
question has been treated very elaborately and includes some views of the 
interior of a coal mine taken by electric light, the first views of the kind 
ever produced. These collections form a basis for a full and comj^lete rep- 
resentation of the mineral resources of the country, and it is hoped that 
they will increase until they shall have attained their highest educa- 
tional value. They have been fully described in Museum Circular No. 
31. The regular force of the department having been redbced to a 
scientific assistant and a laborer, the work of preparing the collections 
in the Museum has been at a comparative stand-still during the first 
half of the year. The laboratory of this dei)artment has been moved to 
the second floor of the southwest pavilion, and the work-room on the 
floor of the Museum has been cleaned out aiul space prepared for ex- 
hibition purposes, so that now the entire workof preparing material for 
exhibition has been concentrated into one place. The work of investi- 
gating the New Orleans material has been carried on as far as practi- 
cable, and, with the assistance of Mr. Allen, a number of very valuable 
analyses have been made. A large number of accessions have been re- 
ceived, among which may be specially mentioned a collection from the 
Argo works, presented by Hon. N. P. Hill, a series donated by the 
Copper Queen Company, and a series of ai)atite from many localities, 
I)resented by Pickford & Winkfield, of London, England. In the middle 
of May the curator returned to New Orleans to pack up the collection 
and to solicit contributions for increasing the value of the permanent 
collections. No attempt was made to obtain large, entire collections 
without regard to their value to the Museum, requests being made 
for material of only two classes, i. e., that of intrinsic value, and such 
as would till gaps in our permanent collections. This effort was so 
successful that uuich very valuable material was obtained and some 
of the most important gaps were filled. Among the former should 
be especially noticed the important and interesting collection received 
from Mexico, and among the latter the valuable series of iron ores from 
the Menominee region in Michigan. After the return of the curator to 



REPORT OF THL SECRETARY. 45 

Wasliiugtou ill June, the collection presented to the Mn«eum by the 
Anieiicau Institute of Mining Engineers, and which has for some years 
been stored in Philadelphia, under the care of Mr. Thomas Donaldson, 
commenced to arrive and claimed his attention during the remainder of 
the fiscal year. 

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

For continuing the prosecution of ethnological researches among the 
North American Indians during the year 1885, under the general super- 
vision of the Smithsonian Institution, an appropriation of $40,000 was 
made by Congress. The charge of this interesting work — so valuable for 
the advancement of anthropological knowledge — still remains under the 
eflicient direction of Maj. J. W. Powell. 

The explorations in this field for the collection of information and 
material, being mainly conducted during the summer months, the re- 
sults cannot be collated and discussed till late in the fall. And as the 
present report is brought down only to the 1st of July, a notice of the 
operations of this Bureau for the year 1885 must necessarily be post- 
poned until the next annual report. 

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY. 

While this important branch of the public service is in its organiza- 
tion entirely independent of the Smithsonian Institution, yet its inti- 
mate relations to the latter, not only in the advancement of original 
scientific research, but particularly in the valuable contributions made 
bj' it to the stores of the National Museum, have seemed to justify an 
annual summary of its general operations. Maj. J. W. Powell continues 
to administer in a highly satisfactory manner the responsible duties of 
his position as Director of the Survey. 

In this department also, as in that last referred to, the field work is 
still in progress at the closing of this report. And hence, for the rea- 
son assigned, no details of the work and its results can here be given. 
The character of the geological operations for the year will be concisely 
presented in the report of 1885-'86. 

THE UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION. 

The work of the Commission has been prosecuted on about the same 
scale as during the year 1884, the usual attention being paid to the pro- 
duction of trout, salmon, whitefish, and other species, and to the gen- 
eral investigations into the fisheries of the country. 

The steamer Albatross, which was sent to the Gulf of Mexico, partly 
to represent the United States Fish Commission at the ^aw Orleans 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Exj)ositiou aud partly for the prosecution of research, was very success- 
ful in her mission, attracting much attention at the exhibition, and 
making many important explorations. Included in these was a short 
visit to Cozumel, an island off the coast of Yucatan, where many new 
species of vertebrate animals were secured. 

The investigations made at Wood's Holl will be detailed in the next 
report, as the work was begun alter June 30, which represents the limit 
of the present report. 

Resiiectfully submitted. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Washington, July 1, 1885. 



REPORT ON SMITHSO^^IAN EXCHANGES, JANUARY 1 TO 

JUNE oO, lS8o. 

By George H. Boehmer. 
office work. 

On my retiuu tiom an official mission to Europe as special agent for 
the international exchange of official ])ublic documents of the United 
States Government with foreign powers, to which position I had been 
api^ointed by yourself, and at the request of Mr. Spofford, the Libra- 
rian of Congress, on July 22, 1884, I resumed charge of the Exchange 
Office on March 1, 1885. One of my first duties was the preparation of 
reports to (1) the Smithsonian Institution, as the agent of exchange of 
the United States Government, and (2) to the Library of Congress, as 
the beneficiary under the Congressional act establishing this system of 
exchange. The latter report is a manuscript of 620 jjages of (42-line) 
foolscap paper, and will in all probability be presented to Congress by 
the Librarian of Congress through the Joint Committee on the Library. 
The report to the Smithsonian Institution is a manuscript of over 500 
pages foolscap, and comprises : (a) Letter of transmittal; (&) historical 
sketch of international exchanges ; (c) journal; (J) correspondence ; (e) 
bibliographical list of official and scientific publications made by the 
Government departments and scientific and learned societies located in 
Berlin, Germany. This list is as complete as could be collected during 
the comparatively short sojonin in that city. Of this report only the 
letter of transmittal, exhibiting a resume in a condensed form of the 
worlc performed, success attained, and certain observations made abroad, 
will be given in thepresent statement, under the heading "Government 
Exchange Division." 

Special attention had been given in .all the countries visited to the 
collecting of reliable information and material to aid in the correction 
of the "list of foreign correspondents." In this endeavor I met with 
the most generous assistance on the part of all officials to whom I made 
known my wishes, and a full list of the eo-operators in this enter])rise 
will be i>resented in the new and revised list prepared from the mate- 
rial collected and now ready for publication. This new list comprises 
over 4,000 titles, while the last one published by the Institution had 
only 2,1)01. 

The regular office work has received proper attention, and the first 
six months of the present year close with a record never attained 

before. 

47 



48 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



The Record Division. — The duties of tliis office liave become so iinnier- 
ous, that an additional assistant was this year allowed. The work of 
this division now embraces all the records and card catalojijiies nniU'i- 
the system adopted on the 1st of January, 1885. Under tliis system 
all exchanges, whether incoming or outgoing, foreign or domestic, after 
verifying the correctness of the sending, are entered on a blotter — this 
work being done by the assistants in the foreign and domestic exchange 
division, respectively ; these blotters are tlien transcribed by the clerks 
of the record division in the day-book, from which the ledger, repre- 
sented by a card catalogue, is posted. In addition to these duties, it 
devolves on the clerks of this division to prepare the invoices for the 
outgoing exchanges, and to credit on the ledger the acknowledgments 
sent by reci[)ients of exchanges, and to record and file letters, bills of 
lading, &c. 

The following statement exhibits the work done iii this division dur- 
ing the first six months: 



Description. 



Foreign cards in use 

Domestic cards in use 

Domestic entries made 

Foreign entries made 

Invoices written 

Government packages received . 
Miscellaneous packages received 
Let ters entered 



Number. 



s(Ki 
11,217 
33, 651 
I?,, 57(i 
51,H00 
14, 042 

433 



The Foj'cign Exchange Division. — Since January 1,1885, o'J,921 packages 
have been received in this division and 383 boxes sent, including the 
Government exchanges. A comparative statement of boxes sent dur- 
ing corresponding periods of former years present the following results : 



Boxes. 


1880. 


1881. 


1882. 


1883. 


1884. 


1885. 


Number 


72 


155 


168 


16(j 


350 


383 







The year 1884 exhibited an extraordinary increase in the transmis- 
sions, which was hirgely due to an ariangenient for exchanges on the 
part of the United States Patent Ofii(;e with foreign Governments by 
which ()2 large cases were sent abroad through the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution in June of that year. But notwithstanding this unusual send- 
ing, the last six months show an inert ase of 33 boxes over the simil,;r 
period of 1884. A detailed list will be presented in the statistics of 
exchanges. 

Owing to the large addition in the work required under the present 
system of prepaiing blotters, &c., and in consideration of the regular 
increase both in incoming and outgoing exchanges, two (temporary) 
^;Ssistaiits have been em^)loyed. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 49 

The Domestic Excliamje Division. — The work performed in this division 
between January 1, 1885, and June 30, 1885, is as follows : 



Description. 



Number. 



Total packages distributed. 
Aunouucements written ... 

Addresses written 

Entries made in blotters... 



5, i:58 
1,830 
7, 320 
5,138 



While now, as compared with 1884, the number of packages distrib- 
uted does not apparently present any marked increase, it must be re- 
membered that until the end of August, 1884, all books for the Smith- 
sonian Institution, whether received by mail or otherwise, were entered 
on the exchange record; but since then the books for the Smithsonian 
Institution, coming by mail, were sent direct to the Smithsonian Li- 
brary without passing through the exchanges. Thus, while the num- 
ber of entries on the exchange records has apparently remained the same, 
an increase has in reality taken place, the extent of which is represented 
by the number of packages sent direct to the Smithsonian Library. 

VISIT TO EUROPE. 

The Government Exchange Division. — On the 22d of July, 1884, hav- 
ing been appointed as special European agent of the Library of Con- 
gress for exchanging the official publications of the United States Gov- 
ernment for like publications of foreign Governments, in accordance 
with the Congressional acts of March 2, 1867, and July 2, 1868, I ven- 
ture to here present, as a concise statement of the business accom- 
plished, a reproduction of the letter transmitting the formal report: 

" Obediently to the instructions received, and provided with letters 
of credence (1) from yourself to the correspondents of the Institution 
abroad, (2) from Mr. Spolford, on behalf of the Library of Congress to 
the officers in charge of Government exchanges in Europe, and (3) 
from the Department of State to the officers of the diplomatic and 
consular corps of the United States in Europe, I left on my mission on 
the 24th of July, 1884, and successively visited the executive depart- 
ments of the following countries : Germany, Prussia, Saxony, Denmark, 
Norway, Sweden, Finland, Uussia, Austria, Hungary, Eoumania, Ba- 
varia, Switzerland, VVurtemberg, Belgium, Holland, England, Italy, and 
France (several of them repeatedly), obtaining immediate results far 
above all expectations, and securing the promise of further valuable 
returns. In most of the countries visited even the promise of two com- 
plete sets of official .publications has been secured, while the Govern- 
ment of the United States furnishes only one single copy to each of the 
exchanging states. Austria has been added to the list of exchanging 
Governments, and Germany and Prussia are also expected to be repre- 
sented in a decided majority of their respective publications. 

"One of the paragraphs of instruction, specifying the kind of docu- 
H. Mis. 15 4 



50 RErOKT ox EXCHANGES. 

ments esi)ecially desired by the Librarian of Congress, mentions, among 
others — 

'' (a) Complete sets of the hiws of each country. 

"(&) Journals, &c., of parliamentary bodies. 

"(c) Historical publications. 

"In compliance with this paragraph I desire to state that on the part 
of all the Governments visited the promise has been cheerfully given 
(including even that of Germany and Prussia), and a number of them 
have already redeemed their promise. Large collections have been re- 
ceived from the Governments of Sweden, Korway, Denmark, Hungary, 
Saxony, Wurtemberg, Bavaria, Holland, Italy, Fran(;e, and Switzer-, 
land, while in furnishing collections of laws those of Wurtemberg and 
Bavaria stand pre-eminent, the collection from the former extending 
from the year 1289 to the present day. This is not a Government pub- 
lication, but a i)rivate enterprise. The complete work had to be pur- 
chased by the Government of Wurtemberg, and is now being presented 
to the Government of the United States in api)reciation of the many 
and valuable documents x)resented under the Congressional act of Gov- 
ernment documents exchange, while the collection from Bavaria com- 
prises several hundred volumes. As regards historical publications the 
Government of Switzerland stands pre-eminent in her promise to sup- 
l)ly as complete a collection as can be obtained — a library in itself — 
of the historical works of that Republic, while the Governments of 
Saxony and Italy have already furnished some very valuable works. 
Of other official publications a collection of 4,500 volumes of " Procfes- 
verbaux des conseils generaux des D^partements Frangais," received 
from the French Government, may be named, while the offer of the 
English Government of supplying the parliamentary papers from the 
year 1817 to the end of 1881 also deserves mention. 

"At first I met with great difficulties and vexations in carrying out the 
designated plan of operations, mainly owing to the facts that all the 
intercourse had been in a very indirect way of correspondence, and 
tha.t an agent of exchange had never visited the respective Govern- 
ments, among whom some very singular ideas prevailed as to the true 
position of the Library of Congress as regards this exchange, as well as 
to its relative position to the Government of the United States and the 
bodies representing the Government in its various branches, and in 
consequence of which some very serious misapprehensions and miscon- 
structions as regards the purpose of this exchange had occurred. 

"Another disadvantage jvhich soon became painfully noticeable has 
its origin in the entirely different organization and construction of the 
exchange service of the European countries as compared with our own 
system. 

"While the United States Congress makes a liberal provision for the 
printing and gratuitous distribution of all official i)ublicatious, from the 
most inexpensive to the most costly ])roductiou, in European countries 
the respective governmeutal bureaus and departments relieve them- 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



51 



selves of auy aud all aunoyances and cost attending the printing and 
publishing of their various issues by giving the manuscript in com- 
mission. to some enterprising and reliable publishing house. Thus the 
work is at once thrown in the book trade and represents a commercial 
value, and copies can only be supplied through the firm holding the 
work on commission. The department may receive probably some 50 
per cent, of the proceeds of the sales, which income greatly lessens the 
cost of preparing the manuscript. The respective departments cau 
obtain copies only by purchase, and no legislation existing in those 
countries like our Congressional act authorizing the exchange of official 
documents, the one bureau, having undertaken the collecting and pro- 
viding for the exchange with other Governments, has a very difficult 
task in obtaining from the other departments the works required for 
the purpose. It has no right to demand, but it is always the suppli- 
cant for a favor, since such only it can be considered. 

"Furthermore, the bureaus of exchange established (on the basis 
adopted by the Paris convention in 1875) in a number of European 
states are greatly restricted in their modus operandi by well-defined 
laws, which prescribe distinctly that the official publications obtained 
in the manner above described, and purchased from funds exclusively 
allowed for the purpose, can be exchanged only for works of the same 
(commercial) value. This, however, is a difficult matter in the case of 
the United States publications, which represent no commercial value, 
although they command very high figures in the book trade. I beg leave 
here to quote from an English catalogue the prices of some of the more 
important United States publications — the figures reduced to American 
currency : 



Publications. 



Prices. 



Contributious to North American Ethnology, vol. 4 

Contributions to North American Ethnology, vol. 5 

Anmuil Reports, Bureau of Ethnology per volume. . 

U. S. Fish Commission Reports, 8 volumes 

Tenth Census per volume, about. . 

Tenth Census, vol. 8 

Commercial Relations of the United States, 1880-1884 per set . . 

Iron aud Steel, 2 volumes 

Annual Report Secretary of War, 1880 per set.. 

Mineral Resources of the United States per volume.. 

Mines aud Mining do 

Paris Exhibitiou per set.. 

Black Hills of Dakota 

Hayden Survey, 9 volumes, 4to 

Hayden Survey, Annual Reports, 12 volumes 

Hayden Survey, Atlas of Colorado 

Kiug Survey, Fortieth Parallel per set.. 

U. S. Geological Survey (Powell), Annual Reports per volume.. 

U. S. Geological Survey, monograph, vol. 2 

U. S. Geological Survey, monograi)h, vol. 3 

U. S. Geological Survey, monograph, vol. 4 

U. S. Geological Survey, monograph, vol. 5 

Wheeler, Surveys West of the 100th Meridian per set. . 

Defenses of Washington 



$11 25 

10 50 

12 50 

45 00 

5 00 

15 75 

27 50 

10 50 

10 50 

7 50 

7 50 

10 50 
18 75 
75 00 
63 00 
15 75 

157 00 

7 50 

21 00 

21 00 

7 50 

14 25 

130 00 

11 25 



52 EEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

" Herein, aud iu the misconceptions above stated, we 'may find an 
explanation of the scant retnrns tlie Government of the United States 
has received and of the incompleteness of the series furnished; and 
though, through the kind and hearty co operation of our diplomatic and 
consular o£Scers, 1 finally succeeded in placing, for a time at least, the ex- 
changes on a sound basis, allow me to suggest that the means of securing 
for the Government of the United States full returns for the liberal pro- 
visions made for the exchange, and of reaping the benefit of the prom- 
ises obtained from the European Gavernments in the execution of my 
mission, can onlj- be found in the establishment of a permanent agency 
in Europe, a precedent for which we find in the Congressional act of 
June 26, 1848, wherein Congress charged the Library Committee with 
the nomination of an agent to conduct the operations of the exchange 
between France and the United States, which ought to be intrusted to 
a person entirely familiar with the business and its requirements, who 
is to keep himself always informed as to the quality and quantity of 
the publications made by the European Governments, and who should 
be capable of judging and selecting from the works thus offered such 
as would comjjensate the Government of the United States in the fullest 
measure in an exchange, value for value, the value of the United States 
publications being accepted as they are quoted in the book trade, for 
the works sent abroad, in compliance with the Congressional acts es- 
tablishing this exchange." 

EXTENSION OF THE SYSTEM OF EXCHANGES. 

With two Governments preliminary arrangements have been made 
for an exchange of official publications, the extent of which however 
has not yet been fully decided on. These Governments are those of the 
Republic of Uruguay and of the Empire of Austria. The correspondence 
relating to these arrangements is here given : 

EXCHANG15 WITH URUGUAY. 

From Department of State, WasMngton. December ^Q, 1884, to Prof. IS. F. 

Baird, Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir : I inclose a copy of a note from the Charge d' Affaires ad 
interim of Uruguay here, touching the wish of his Government to form (or 
accede to) conventions with other Governments, with a view to provid- 
ing for exchanges of publications ; also the printed paper which accom- 
panies the same, and which it is desired to have returned, with your 
comments on the proposition of the Uruguayan Government. 

I am, i&c, 
Fred'k T. Frelinghuysen. 



JREPORT ON EXCHANGES. 63 

Inclosure from legation of Uruguay, New Tori; December 14, 1884, to 

the Secretary of State, Washington. 

Sir: I Lave the honor to address your excellency for the i)nri)ose of 
bringing- to your notice, by means of the copy herewith inclosed, the 
iuvitatiou which the Government of the Republic that I represent has 
the high honor to address to you, for the purposes stated in the note. It 
extends this invitation feeling every confidence in the lofty Americiin 
spirit and the good will of the United States Government. 

I transcribe to your excellency, in full, the note whereby I am in- 
structed to bring to the notice of your Government this invitation ; it 
reads as follows : 

^' Montevideo, October 29. 1884. 
" Mr. Charg:^ d'affaires : 

" I send you a printed copy of the law recently passed by the honor- 
able general assembly of the Republic providing for the establishment, 
in the national library, of a bureau which is to be called 'The Central 
Bureau of International Exchanges of Publications.' 

" In pursuance of the ])rovisions of article 8 of the reglementary de- 
cree of that law, you will be pleased to invite the Governuient to which 
you are accredited, in the name of the Republic, to conclude a conven- 
tion for the exchange of publications on various subjects. Two objects 
are had in view by the Government in pursuing this course, viz, to 
draw still closer the cordial relations which exist between this Republic 
and that of the United States of America, and to encourage, by facilitat- 
ing them as far as possible, the knowledge and study of literary, scien- 
tific, and other questions among the nations of America, whose advances 
in progress and civilization must speedily place them on a footing with 
the most i^rogressive nations of Europe. Your superior enlightenment 
renders it unnecessary for me to advance any arguments in order to show 
the importance of the proposed convention, or the advantages which must 
accrue from it to the nations adopting it. If, as is to be hoped, the 
United States Government agrees to conclude the arrangement in ques- 
tion, it ma^' be done on the basis of that which already exists between 
this Republic and Chili, or of that concluded by Belgium with vai ions 
other nations, which you will find in the inclosed printed documents, if 
the United States Government does not consider that certain modifica- 
tions are necessary, which the Government of this Republic is prepared 
to consider. You will be pleased to request that Government to send 
you a reply in regard to this matter. 

" Manuel Herrera y Ober." 

In bringing the foregoing note to your knowledge, and inclosing the 
printed copy of the conventions to which it refers, permit me to ho])e 
that the cabinet of which your excellency is so distinguished a mem- 
ber will not consider the plan which 1 hereby have the honor to submit 



54 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

as impracticable, since it will tend to render better known in onr country 
the practical details of the institutions of this, together with its ad- 
vances, which so greatly stimulate our own, while the constant perusal 
of the publications of our Republic will show the eagerness Avith which 
American countries of Spanish extraction are seeking, in spite of well- 
known obstacles, to secure for themselves a permanent position among 
the nations of the modern world. 

Carlos Farini. 

Central Office of International Exchanges of Publications. 

The Senate and House of Representatives of the Bepublic of Uruguaij in 
general assembly, &c., resolve : 

Article 1. There is established in the national library an office called 
" The Central Office of International Exchanges of Publications." 

Article 2. The director of the library, through the intermediary of 
the office created by the preceding article, will [)roceed to effect the ex- 
change of official publications, and of the literary and scientific works 
which are printed in the Republic, in conformity with dij)lomatic con- 
ventions in force, and those which the Executive may conclude with 
foreign Governments. 

Article 3. The Executive will make the necessary regulations for the 
office (jreated by this law. 

Article 4. This is made known, &c. 

House of Representatives, Montevideo, May 14, 1884. 

X. Lavina, President. 
Jos^ Luis Missaglia, Secretary. 

Souse of Representatives of the Republic of Uruguay, 

Montevideo, May 15, 1884. 
To the Executive of the Republic : 

We have the honor to transmit to the Executive of the Republic the law 
sanctioned by the honorable Congress in yesterday's session, establish- 
ing in the national library an office called "The Central Office of Inter- 
national Exchanges of Publications." 

Xavier Lavina. 
Jose Luis Missaglia. 

Department of State, Montevideo, May 27, 1884. 

We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication, 
and to inform you that there has been forwarded to the director of the 
library the decree authorizing him to make the necessary regulations. 

Santos. 
Carlos de Castro. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 55 

Department of State, Montevideo, July 24, 1884. 

DECREE. 

In conformity with the provisions of article 3 of the law of May 27, 
1884, the Executive of the Republic decrees : 

Article 1. After the office of luteruational Exchanges of Publications 
referred to in the preceding law has been established and organized, 
the director of the national library will, with the view to the better 
service of said office, prepare regulations for the same, which he will 
in due time submit to the Government for its api)roval. 

Article 2. The above-mentioned functionary will on the 31st Decem- 
ber of each year present to tbis ministry a report showing the progress, 
the needs, and the increase of said office, which document, v/heu pub- 
lished, shall be transmitted to all institutions which exchange j)ublica- 
tious with the national library. 

Article 3. All the departments and their bureaus will transmit to the 
office of International Exchanges of Publications 25 copies of all the 
documents jjublished by them. 

Article 4. The director of the national library will acquire for the 
office to which this decree relates, all such publications as will, in his 
opinion, tend to contribute to the reputation of the Republic in foreign 
parts, with the view that this office may distribute them. The provis- 
ions of this arfcle, however, shall not interfere with any donations 
which may be made to the office of exchanges. 

Article 5. All agents of the Republic in foreign countries will aid the 
director of the library, whenever he calls on them for such aid ; and 
if such obligation involves any expenditure, the agents shall, before 
takiug any action, inform the director of the amount needed, so that he 
may either allow the expenditure or refuse it, according to the amount 
of funds at his disposal for the purpose. 

Article 6. Any conventions which may be concluded in the future 
shall be formulated according to the test of the convention concluded 
between the charg6 d' affaires of Uruguay in Chili and the Govern- 
ment of Chili on the 6th June, 1873, and whenever this is impossi- 
ble, according to the project of a convention prepared at Brussels on 
the 26th August, 1880.* 

Article 7. In view of the fact that any delay in the conclusion of con- 
ventions may prove prejudicial to the Republic and the national li- 
brary, the director of that institution will propose to the Department 
of State the establishment of an exchange of publications with all those 
nations with whom, in his opinion, such an exchange should be estab- 
lished, determining at the same time what publications should be 
exchanged. And if the Department of State approves of the projjo- 



*[T-ho articles of this conventiou were published in the Smithsoniau Report for 
1883, pp. I":i3,124.] 



66 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

sition, it will transmit it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which im 
mediately, and without any legislation on the subject, will proceed to 
arrange the necessary convention, reporting its action to the Depart- 
ment of State. 

■Ai'ticle 8. There shall be forwarded to all the Governments of Amer- 
ica, through the intermediary' of the Ministry of Foreign Affiiiirs, a circular 
giving the provisions of the law in question and of this decree, inviting 
them at the same time to enjoy the benefits which will result from such 
an exchange foV all nations which accept it. 

Article 9. The above shall be published and inserted in the code of 

laws. 

Santos. 

Carlos de Castro. 
Exchanye of puhlications heticeen Uruguay and Chili. 

Met at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the sixth day of June, one 
thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, Don Jose C. Arrieta, charg^ 
d'affaires of the Republic of Uruguay, and Don Adolfo Ibaiiez, minister 
of foreign affairs of Chili, for the ])urpose of concluding a convention 
for the regular and permanent exchange between the two Republics of 
the literary and scientific productions of their citizens, which will 
strengthen the bonds of sympathy which unite the two countries, and 
agreed upon the following articles: 

Article 1. The Government of Uruguay and of Chili will send to each 
other, as soon as possible, two copies of all the publications which they 
have had printed in accordance with the provisions of the law in their 
respective territories, excepting productions of purely private interest 
or whose contents do not entitle them to be considered as scientific or 
literary publications. 

Article 2. The same obligation will be in force even if the publica- 
tions in question have not been published in either of the two countries, 
but have been published at the expense of either of the two Govern- 
ments, or by their aid or subvention. 

Article 3. As soon as one of the two Governments has received the 
publications sent by the other, it will acknowledge their receipt in the 
official journal, giving the place where they have been published and 
the place whence they were sent, with the view to bring them to the 
notice of those who desire to obtain them. 

Article 4. The provisions of the above three articles will apply to geo- 
graphical mai)s and other works of that character. 

Article 5. Each Government will also procure and send to the other 
two copies of works published by citizens of their resj)ective countries 
residing abroad; but this obligation will cease as regards the Govern- 
ment of Uruguay if a citizen of Uru?;uay pul)lishcs a work in Chili, and 
as regards the Government of Chili if a Chilian citizen publishes a 
work in Uruguay. 



EEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 57 

Article G. Each of tLetwo Govonmieiits will form acollecrioii as com- 
plete as possible of all tlie works pulilislied within its territory, or out- 
side of it. if the provisious of article 2 apply to them ; aud will trans- 
mit this collection to the other at as early a date as possible. This col- 
lection should especially comprise works treating of the history, geog- 
raphy, industries, statistics, and legislation of the country. 

Article 7. Publications shall be transmitted in the month of January 
of every year j in Uruguay through the intermediary of the Chilian 
legation, and in Chili through the intermediary of the Uruguayan le- 
gation, or direct between the two Governments whenever there are no 
legations. 

Article 8. The present convention will go into efiect this day, and 
will continue in force, until either of the two Governments shall desire 
its discontinuance, and shall so advise the other. 

At the close of this conference the charge d'affaires of Uruguay and 
the Chilian minister of foreign relations have signed this document in 
duplicate copy, and affixed thereto their respective seals. 

[L. s.] J. Arrieta, 
[l. s.] Adolfo Ibanez. 

From the Smithsonian Institution, January 31, 1885, to Hon. F. T. Fre- 
. linghuysen, Secretary of State. 

Sir : In acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 30th of 
December last, inclosing a copy of a note from the Charge d'affaires 
of Uruguay in reference to an exchange of publications between that 
Government and the Government of the United States, I beg to say 
that an answer was necessarily deferred until a translation could be 
made of the Spanish document accompanying your communication, the 
original of which is herewith returned. 

It is not my province to offer suggestions to the Government of Uru- 
guay regarding a general system of exchanges with the various Gov- 
ernments of the world ; but so far as the United States is concerned, I 
can say that it will give the Smithsonian Institution much pleasure to 
make the necessary arrangements for an interchange of official publica- 
tions of the two countries, the Institution sending to Uruguay at least 
once a year, and perhaps twice, all the publications of the Government 
of the United States, whether printed by order of Congress or any of 
the Departments — these, of course, in return for an equally exhaustive 
and comprehensive transmission on the part of the Government of Uru- 
guay, all the returns received to be placed in the Library of Congress. 

The Smithsonian Institution caiinot undertake to secure publications 
generally of the scientitic and literary establishments of the United 
States, but it will be happy to do all in its i)Ower in this respect. It 
is, however, willing to send its own works — the Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual 



58 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

Keports, which embody a large percentage of American scientific litera- 
ture. 

In return for this special and separate sending it would expect for 
its own library copies of any works on scientific subjects published by 
the Government of Uruguay. 

In reference to the best, or most convenient, method of conducting 
an exchange of publications between the two countries in question, I 
beg to say that where distant communication by sea is involved, as is 
the case in the present instance, we find it most convenient to deliver 
all packages, free of freight, to the consul in New York of the country 
addressed, and to have the returns transmitted free of cost to the 
American consul at the port of shipment. 

This course is pursued for the reason that any question of ocean ex- 
penses can be more readily settled on delivery of the packages. Al- 
though differing somewhat from that agreed upon at Brussels, this ar- 
rangement has been acceded to by all the European correspondents of 
the Smithsonian Institution. Of course it would not be impossible to 
make deliveries at Montevideo, if that be the proper port of entry, but 
there would necessarily be petty charges that even in that case it would 
be difficult to arrange for. 

I inclose for the information of the charg^ d'affaires of Uruguay 
some of the publications of the Smithsonian Institution bearing upon 
the subject of exchanges, and which possibly may contain some in- 
formation that will interest him. 

A first transmission can be made by our sending as complete a series 
of the documents of the United States Government as can now be sup- 
plied. This will consist of publications for a number of years, and will 
include several hundred volumes, occupying 13 cases. And we shall 
be pleased to receive information as to the exact address for the con- 
signment, both in this country and Uruguay. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird. 

EXCHANGES WITH AUSTRIA. 

From the Department of State, Washington, D. C, February 11, 1885, to 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

Sir : As suggested by dispatch No. 50 of the 21st ultimo, from Vienna, 
I inclose a copy of the same and of the list of official works of the 
Austro-IIungarian Government for exchange, to which it refers; and I 
also inclose, for the better understanding of dispatch No. 50, copies of 
two previous dispatches on the exchange of Government publications 
with Austria-Hungary. 

I am, &c., 
Feed. T. Frelinghuysen. 



KEPUKT UJS EXCHANGES. 59 

[Inclosed.] 

Mr. Francis to Mr. Frelinghuysen January 21, 1885, No. 60. 
Mr. Francis to Mr. Frelinghuysen, October 16, 1884, No. 17. 
Mr. Francis to Mr. Frelinghuysen, October 24, 1884, No. 20. 

From Hon. John M. Francis, ambassador , United States legation, Vienna, 
October 16, 1884, to Hon. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen, Secretary of State, 
Washington, D. C. 

Sib. : I have the honor to report that Mr. George H. Boehmer, chief 
of Exchange Bureau for the Smithsonian Institution and the Congres- 
sional Library, having special reference to Government publications, 
recently visited Vienna with a view of securing such exchange between 
Austria-Hungary, and the Bureau above named, of which he is chief. 

In conformity with your general instruction to diplomatic agents of 
the United States abroad, of which Mr. Boehmer was the bearer, I as- 
sisted him in procuring interviews with representatives of the Austro- 
Hungarian Government, who are authorized to treat upon the object of 
his mission, for this purpose securing audience on the 9th instaut with 
Count Szogyenyi, chief of section of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on 
which occasion the subject-matter was fully discussed, and the methods 
to be adopted in the proposed exchange freely canvassed. 

Count Szogyenyi expressed much interest in the matter, and appointed 
a meeting for the next day with Mr. Boehmer, to give it further con- 
sideration. Mr. Boehmer was subsequently placed in communication 
with other departments of the Government to arrange details, and the 
result as reported to me by him was in every respect satisfactory. The 
publicatious will now be sent forward regularly from each capital, the 
one to the other, in the exchange of Government publications. 

The details of the agreement entered into will be reported by Mr. 
Boehmer to the Congressional Librarian. 

From Hon. John M. Francis.^ ambassador, United States legation, Vienna, 
October 24, 1884, to Hon. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen, Secretary of State, 
Washington, D. C 

Sir : Referring to my No. 17, of the date of October 16th, relative to 
the exchange of Government publicatious between the Government of 
the United States and that of Austria-Hungary, I have the honor to 
inclose herewith copy of note on this subject to Count Szogyenyi, chief 
of section of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of the date of October 9, with 
copy of inclosure therein, a letter of same date addressed to me by Mr. 
George H. Boehmer, chief of Exchange Bureau of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, and delegate of the Libraiy of Congress of the LTuited States. 
I also inclose translation of a coiuuiunication from Count Szogyenyi, 
dated October 20, in reply to my note as above, showing the progress 
thus far made in the matter. 



GO REPORT ON EXCHANGES, 

From Hon. John M. Francis^ amJxtssador, United States Icijaiion, Vienna, 
October 9, 1884, to his exccllcney the Count Szogyenyl, e kief of section 
of Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

Your Excellency : I have the honor to inclose herewith a copy of a 
communication this daj^ received by me from Mr. George H. Boehmer, 
delegate of the Library of Congress of the United States, treating of 
the subject of a proposed exchange of official documents between the 
Government of the United States and Austria-Hungary. 

I beg leave to inform your excellency that I have received instruc- 
tions from my Government to aid as far as may be convenient in draw- 
ing the attention of His Imperial Majesty's Government to the subject 
matter referred to, with the hope that the exchange of Government 
publications as proposed may be favorably regarded by His Majesty's 
Government to the end that the desired object be assured. 

I avail myself of this occasion to renew to your excellency the as- 
surance of my distinguished consideration. 

From George H. Boehmer, Vienna, Austria, October 9, 1884, to his ex- 
cellency Mr. John 31. Francis, envoy extraordinary and minister pleni- 
potentiary of the United States of America, Vienna. 

Sir : In the year 1867, the Congress of the United States passed a 
law authorizing the exchange, under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution, of a certain number of all the United States official docu- 
ments for the corresponding publications of other Governments through- 
out the world, the returns to be placed in the National (Congressional) 
Library. 

The object of this law was to procure for the use of the Congress of 
the United States a complete series of the publications of other Gov- 
ernments. 

A circular letter was therefore issued by the Smithsonian Institution, 
asking the advice of the various Governments as to the best method of 
accomplishing the object. 

It was important to ascertain what Governments were willing to 
enter into the proposed exchange, and whether any one person or branch 
of the Government or public library in each country would undertake 
to collect ail the national publications and transmit them to Washing- 
ton. Information w^as also desired as to the titles and character of the 
regular official publications of each country, and their average number 
and extent in each year, as well as the names of the different sources 
from which they emanate. 

On the 30th of October, 1875, a cftcular was sent by Professor Henry, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, with a letter to the foreign 
ministers at Washington,* and among them to the ambassador of His 
Majesty the Emj)eror of Austria, 

"[This circular and letter were published in the Sinithsoniau Report for IbSl, pp. 
768, 769.] 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 61 

In accordance with iustrnctions received in respect to the letter re- 
ferred to, the first two boxes of documents were bent to Vienna, and are 
now deposited in the Imperial Koyal Library. Subsequent transmis- 
sions, however, were refused by the imperial legation at Washingtou 
as being too bulky. 

It is now desired by the Congress of the United States of America 
to resume relations of exchanges with the Empire of Austria, this 
being the only Government required to complete tiie exchange serv- 
ice with the United States of all the European monarchies, and in this 
connection I beg to remark that the Smithsonian Institution, as the ■ 
authorized agent of the Government, has now ready for transmission, 
(in addition to the boxes of documents already received into the Impe- 
rial Eoyal Library), eighteen (18) boxes, each of about six cubic feet, 
containing several thousand volumes, and to whicb about two boxes 
will be added each year. This entire accumulation would, upon ac- 
ceptance of the terms and conditions of the exchange on the part of 
His Imperial Majesty's Government, be delivered at once and free of 
cost to any agent the Imperial Government might be pleased to api)oint 
at any seaport of the United States, while the returns on the part of 
His Imperial Majesty's Government should be placed, free of cost, in 
the hands of Dr. Felix Fliigel, 49 Sidonien Strasse, Leipsic, the agent 
of the Smithsonian Institution for Europe. The boxes or parcels thus 
sent should be marked, "To the Smithsonian Institution, for the Library 
of Congress," and both these establishments be informed of the seuding 
by letter, together with a list of the documents sent. 

In obedience to instructions I have the honor to submit this proposal 
of exchange to you, and to request your excellency to lay the same 
before the proper authorities of His Imperial Majesty's Government 
and to kindly advise me of any action taken or any results derived 
from this application. 

From his excellency the Count Szogyenyi, chief of section of Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, to Hon. John M. Francis, ambassador, Vienna, Octo- 
ber 20, 1884. 

Sir : In conformity with the desire expressed in the esteemed note 
of the 9th instant, F. O. No. 8, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made 
known to the respective imperial and royal central stations the mis- 
sion of Mr. Boehmer, chief of Congressional Bureau of the United 
States for International Exchange, who proposed making an agreement 
whereby a regular exchange of official publications may be established 
between the Governments of Austria- Hungary and the United States. 

The Imperial Eoyal Ministry of the Interior has already expressed its 
approval of such an agreement as f^r as its department is concerned, 
and observes in this connection that it deems it most advisable to con- 
hne itself to the regular communication of the reports of the sessions of 
the Austrian Parliament and of the official pai)er known as the Legal 



'62 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

Advertiser (Reichs Gesetzblatt), which publishes all the general laws 
enacted, believing that reports of the sessions of the several provincial 
diets and the different i)rovincial laws and regulations would be of but 
a secondary interest to the United States Government. 

The undersigned will not fail to communicate to the Hon. J. M. Fran- 
cis, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the United 
States of America, all further information bearing upon this question, 
and avails himself of this opportunity to tender a renewed assurance of 
his high esteem. 

From Hon. John M. Francis, ambassador, United States legation, Vienna, 
January 21, 1885, to Hon. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen, Secretary of 
State, Washington, D. G. 

Sir: I have the honor to inclose herewith translation of a note from 
Baron Pasetti, chief of section Ministry of Foreign Affairs, dated Janu- 
ary 1(3, 1885, in regard to the exchange of Government publications be- 
tween the Government of the United States and that of Austria, as fully 
set forth in my No. 20 of October 24, 1884. 

Baron Pasetti's note, with accompanying inclosure of a list of oflicial 
works from the imperial royal department of public instruction, ex- 
plains or suggests the basis of the i)roposed international exchange, 
which has the approval of Mr. Boehmer, agent for the Congressional 
Library and Smithsonian Institution, who recently conferred with the 
proper Government officials here on this subject. 

Mr. Boehmer uow^ requests that a copy of the inclosed communication 
from Baron Pasetti and the accompanying list of official works referred 
to be transmitted by the department to the directors of the Smithsonian 
Institution. • ' 

From Baron Pasetti, minister of foreign affairs, Vienna, January 16, 
1885, to Hon. John M. Francis envoy extraordinary and minister pleni 
potentiary of the United States. 

Sir : On the 20th of October last, under Kos. ^p-, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs had the honor of informing Hon. John M. Francis, en- 
voy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the United States 
of America, that the Imperial Royal Ministry of the Interior had con- 
sented to an establishment of a regular excnange of official jmblica- 
tious with the United States Government. 

In the mean time a note has been received by the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs from the Imperial Royal Ministry of Instruction, wherein the 
latter makes known its views on the above question. 

The last named ministry says that the exchange of official publica- 
tions and of periodicals published by scientific institutes in Austria has 
been uniformly pursued for some time. Numerous copies are forwarded 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 63 

annually in every direction, and the vohinies sent in retuin by institutes 
abroad are promptly' and regularly received. This direct mode of ex- 
change between the resi)ective corporations, institutes, &c., facilitates 
not only the requirements in the most speedy and simple manner, but 
tends also to reduce the expenses of transmission to the lowest possible 
rate. The Imperial Eoyal Ministry of Instruction would nevertheless bo 
ready to accept the proposal made by the American Government as far 
as its department is concerned on condition that the exchange be not 
extended to all publications made, but be confined to such as would 
upon investigation be found to be the most acceptable and needed by 
both parties, and that the number of copies to be sent would also be 
made dependent ui)on this rule. With this view theMinistry of Foreign 
Affairs begs to inclose herewith to the North American envoy a list 
compiled by the Ministry of Instruction, giving the publications periodi- 
cally appearing under its direction, and requests that it be transmitted, 
and that the number and the titles of the copies desired on the j^art of 
America be pointed out. 

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs addresses itself at the same time to 
the other departments interested in the exchange in question, request- 
ing them to make known their views on the subject, and to send in simi- 
lar lists of periodicals published under their direction. 

As far as the publications are concerned which have been offered by 
America, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will first inform the different 
departments of the receipt of the work published by Mr. Boehmer, en- 
titled " History of the Smithsonian Exchanges," of which the author 
had the kindness of placing several copies at the disposal of the Imperial 
Eoyal Government, in connection with which it must be observed that 
the list of official American i^ublications the work contains only reaches 
as far back as the year 1881, which will probably make a supplement 
necessary. 

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs begs to observe here that theMinistry 
of Instruction regards it as a matter of course that this proposed new 
arrangement will in no way affect or alter the exchange of publications 
kept up for a number of years heretofore with the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. 

Finally, the ministry wishes to say that in case an agreement is made 
the publications intended for Austria be forwarded by the American 
Government to Vienna, carriage paid, and that the Austrian consign- 
ments be sent, carriage paid, to be delivered either at Leipsic or at 
AVashington, according to the desire of the American Government. 

While the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor of conveying 
this intelligence to the knowledge ol the honorable North American 
envoy, the undersigned embraces the opportunity to renew the assur- 
ance of his profound consideration. 



64 



REPOET ON EXCHANGES 



Liat of official wor Is published periodically under the direction of the Min- 
istry of Worship and Public Instruction. 

(1) Eecord of laws issued by the Ministry of Instruction. 

(2) Eeport of the sessions of tbe Imperial Academy of Science at 
Vienna, viz : 

(a) Philosophic historical class. 

[b) Mathematic natural science class. 

(3) Memorial of the Imperial Academy of Science at Vienna, viz : 
{a) Philosophic historical class. 

(&) Mathematic natural-science class. 

(4) Almanac of the Imperial Academy of Science at Vienna. 

(5) Austrian Statistics, published by the Statistical Central Commis- 
sion. 

(6) Year Book of the Imperial Royal Institute for Meteorology and 
Magnetism. 

(7) Annals of the Imperial Observatory at Vienna, 

(8) Astronomical Calendar, published by the Imperial Observatory 
at Vienna. 

(9) Year Book of the Geological Institute. 

(10) Results of investigations made by the Geological Institute. 

(11) Treatises of the Imperial Geological Institute at Vienna. 

(12) Austrian historical sources. 

(13) Archives for Austrian history, published by the Imperial Acad- 
emy of Science at Vienna. 

(14) Communications made by the Imperial Institute for Historical 
Researches. 

(15) Communications of the Imperial Royal Central Commission for 
Preservation of Historical Monuments. 

(16) Communications made by the Imperial Royal Museum for Art and 
Industry. 

(17) Central organ for industrial schools in Austria, published under 
the direction of the Ministry of Instruction, together with a sup]3lement. 

STATISTICS OF EXCHANGES FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 1885. 

I. — RECEIPTS. 

1. For foreign distribution. 



Whence received. 



(a) From Government Departments : 

Bureau of Ethnology 

Bureau of Navigation 

Coast and Geodetic Survey Office 

Department of Interior 

Department of Justice 

Department of State , 

Engineer Bureau, U. S. A 



Packages, 



Weisht. 



Nmnber. 


Pounds. 


3 


21 


1 


18 


1 


16 


935 


6,812 


50 


24 


28 


26 


5 


61 



EEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 
1. For foreign distribution — Continued. 



65 



Whence received. 



Packages. 



{a) From Govemmont Departments — Continued. 

Fish Commission 

Geological Survey OCtico , 

House of Reprcsentatixes 

Library of Congress 

National Museum 

Nautical Almanac Office 

Naval Observatory 

Patent Office 

Senate 

Signal Office 

Surgeon-General's Office 

Treasurj' Department 

War Department 



Total 

(5) From the Smithsonian Institution. 

(c) From scientilic societies 

(d) From individuals 



Total 



144 

3, 125 

1 

1,007 

157 

16 

6 

14 

11 

868 

3 

20 

4 



6, 399 
886 

3,143 
200 



Weight. 



10, 688 



486 

21,792 

11 

4,723 

806 

69 

38 

3,776 

26 

4,456 

35 

43 

67 



43, 310 
2,980 

12, 434 
1,751 



60, 475 



2. For domestic distribution. 



From — 


Boxes. 


Parcels. 


Weight. 


Ararentine Republic ...... . 


Number. 

1 
3 
1 
8 
20 
31 
1 
2 
2 
2 


Number. 
57 

233 
37 

592 
1,703 

792 
85 
49 
26 

105 


Pounds. 
250 


Belgium - 


510 


Denmark 


43 


France 


2,790 


Germany 


5, 8.->0 


Great Britain and Ireland ...... 


4,003 


Netherlands 


210 


Norwav 


257 


New South Wales 


47 


Russia .. 


415 






Total 


71 


3,679 


14, 375 







3. For Government exchanges. 



For what and whence received. 


Boxes. 


Packages. 


Weight. 


(a) For Library of Congress, from — 

Huncrarv '. . - .. 


Mimbcr. 

I 

16 

13 

1 


Number. 
3 
16 
13 

1 

29, 200 


Pounds. 
257 


France . 


4, 330 


England 


2, 545 


Netlierlands 


300 


(5) For foieign Governments, from — 

Public Printer 


14, 750 








Total 


31 


29,233 


22,182 







H. Mis. 15- 



6G 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



RECAPITULATION. 



For what and whence received. 



1. For foreign distribution 

2. For domestic distribution . . 

3. For Government exchanges 

Total 




Weight. 



Pounds. 
60, 475 
14, 375 
22, 182 

97, 032 



II. — TRANSMISSIONS. 

1. Foreign transonissmis. 



Country. 


Boxes. 


Total. 


Africa : 

Algeria • 


2 

1 
1 




Cape Colony 




Efvnt 




America: 

Canada 


4 


4 

2 

1 
5- 
1 

1 
2 

1 
1 
2 
3 
3 
1 
2 


New Brunswick 




Newfoundland 




Mexico ., 




Gual emala 




San Salvador 




Cuba 




Hayti 




Jamaica 




Trinidad 




Argentine Confederation 




Brazil .- 




Chili 




Peru 






29 


Asia : 

Philippine Islands 


1 




1 


Australasia : 

New South "Wales 


3 
3 
1 
3 


New Zealand 




South Australia 




Victoria 






10 


Europe : 

Austria Hungary* 




Bavaria* 








11 

5 
41 

92 
78 
2 
22 
7 
5 
3 




Denmark 








Germany 








Greece 




Italy 




Netherlands 








Portugal 








Russia . 


13 









Included in Germany. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 
1. Foreign transmissions — Continued. 



67 



Country. 


Boxes. 


Total. 


Europe : 

Spain 


3 

7 
9 
3 




Sweden 




Switzerland 




Turkey 




Wurtemberg* - ..._ _... 






' 




•^m 








Total 


345 









Included in Germany. 

RECAPITULATION. 





Countries. 


Boxes. 


Africa . - . .-. .. . . 


4 


America 


29 


Asia , 


1 


Australasia 


1(» 


Europe - 


301 




- 




Total 


345 







Transportation Companies. — As in former years the privilege of free 
freight has been continued on the part of most of the steamship lines 
to Europe. 

2. Domestic transmissiojis. 

Five thousand one hundred and nineteen pacliages were received 
during the first six months of 1885, against 10,236 during the 12 months 
of 1884, and distributed within the United States as follows : 



State. 


No. of 
packages. 


State. 


No. of 
packages. 


AlaTiama _. 


6 
4 

85 

6 

103 

2 

2,097 

1 

2 

85 

21 

10(5 

10 

89 
13 
128 
762 
28 
15 


Missouri 


141 


Arlca.nsfls 


Nebraska 


1 


California 


New Hampsliire 


8 


Colorado 


New Jersey 


31 


Connecticut .. .. .. 


New York 


611 


Delaware 


North Carolina 


1 


District of Columbia 


Ohio 


82 


Florida 


Oreson 


1 


(reorcia 


Pennsylvania 


420 


Illinois 


Rhode Island 


31 


Indiana . 


Soutli Carolina 


13 


Iowa .. ... 


Tennessee 


1 


Kansas 


Texas. 

Vermont 


3 


Kcntuckv 


8 


Louisiana . 


Virginia 


11 


Maine 


Washington Territory 

Wisconsin 


2 


Maryland 


122 


Massachusetts 


Wvomiujr Territory 


2 


]VIic}iif>'fl,'n 


Total 




Minnesota . . 


5,119 









68 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



The additions to the library of the Smithsonian Institution from ex- 
changes, are: 



Description. 


Number. 


Total. 


Volumes : 

Octiivo or smaller .. ... . 


688 
222 




Quarto or larger -- 








910 


Parts of volumes: 

Octavo or smaller.. 


1,971 

2, 238 


Quarto or larger - -- - ^ 








4,209 


Pamphlets : 

Octavo or smaller 


4,612 
256 


Quarto or larger 








4, 868 
354 


Maps and charts 












Total 


10,341 







3. Government transmissions. 

The twenty -third box of the series of Government i^ublications to be 
exchanged under the Congressional acts of March 2, 18G7, and July 25, 
1868, was transmitted on the 23d of Aj)ril for deposit in the establish- 
ments designated by the respective Governments for the reception of 
Government exchanges. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 



By George H. Boehmek. 



One of the instructions furnished ou occasion of an official visit 
to Europe, in July, 1884, on business connected with the exchange 
of official public documents of the United States with foreign Gov- 
ernments, provided for the collecting of accurate and sufficient data 
to be employed in correcting the "Lisl^of Foreign Correspondents of 
the Smithsonian Institution" in use by the exchange service of that 
establishment; and, as a result of the attention given by the compiler 
to the instructions received, a new list, corrected and revised to the 1st 
of July, 1885, is herewith presented. 

The present list has been made as perfect and correct as has been 
possible with the assistance of the agents of exchange in the various 
countries visited. Among the gentlemen who have extended aid and 
facilities for the proper execution of the work, and to whom the warmest 
thanks of the compiler are due, the following names deserve special 
mention: 

M. Alvin, Secretary of the Belgian Commission of International Ex- 
changes, Brussels, Belgium. 

M.Angeli, Sous-Chef, Italian Commission of International Exchanges, 
Eome, Italy. 

M. Ahlstrand, Librarian, Kongelige Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, 
Stockholm, Sweden. 

Professor von Baumhauer, Harlem, Netherlands. 

M. Bruun, Principal Librarian, Eoyal Library, Copenhagen, Denmark. 

M. Boye-Strom, Director, Royal Statistical Bureau, Christiania, Nor- 
way. 

Dr. Bodio, Director, Royal Statistical Bureau, Rome, Italy. 

Herr Axel Chariot Drolsum, Principal Librarian, Kongelige Norske 
Frederiks Universitet, Christiania, Norway. 

Dr. Foerstemann, Principal Librarian, Royal Public Librarj', Dresden, 
Saxony. 

Dr. von Gerber, Royal Saxon Minister of State, Dresden, Saxony. 

Professor Dr. Hartmann, Director, Royal Wurtemberg Statistical To- 
pographical Bureau, Stuttgart, Wurtemberg. 

Dr. G. Hellmann, Director, Royal Prussian Meteorological Bureau, 

Berlin, Germany. 

69 



70 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Dr. Heyd, Principal Librarian, Eoyal Library, Stuttgart, Wurtem- 
berg. 

M. G. E. Klenaming, Principal Librarian, Eoyal Library, Stockholm, 
Sweden. 

Dr. Laubmann, Principal Librarian, Royal Library, Munich, Bavaria. 

M. Passier, Sous-Chef, French Bureau of International Exchanges, 
Paris, France. 

M. de Plason, Councillor, Imperial Eoyal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 
Vienna, Austria. 

Dr. Potthast, Principal Librarian, Library of the German Parliament, 
Berlin, Germany. 

M. Eichter, Librarian, Eoyal Public Library, Dresden, Saxony. 

M. Eigier, Chancellor of the Swiss Eepublic, Bern, Switzerland. ' 

M. Sidenblah, Director, Statistical Central Bureau, Stockholm, Swe- 
den. 

M. de Stuers, Councillor, Ipterior Department The Hague, Nether- 
lands. 

Dr. Volger, Frankfort-on-the-Main, Germany. 

William Wesley, Esq., Smithsonian Exchange Agent, London, Eng- 
land. 

Dr. E. Blenck, Director, Eoyal Prussian Statistical Bureau, Berlin, 
Germany. 

A liberal use has also been made of the information contained in the 
following publications : 

Allgemeines deutsches Vereins-Handbuch . Statistisches Eepertorium 
der gelehrten Gesellschaften und wissenschaftlich gemeinniitzigen Ver- 
eine der Staaten des dermaligen deutschen Eeiches, von Hans Adam 
Stoehr, G. I. F. D. H. 

Annuaire publi6 par le Bureau des Longitudes, Paris, France. 

Annuals and State calendars of all the cantons of Switzerland. 

Arskatalog for Svenska Bokhandeln, 18G6-1883. 

Calendario General del Eeguo d' Italia, pel 1884. 

Bibliographie de Belgique, 1875-1884. 

Daheim Kalender, 1884. 

Das UnteiTichtswesen in Ungarn, 1884. 

Gotha Almanac, 1884. 

Hatch's Tasmanian Almanac, 1884. 

Hof- und StaatsHandbuch der osterreichisch-ungarischen Monarchie, 
1884. 

MiUler, Dr. Johannes, Die wissenschaftlischen Vereiue und Gesell- 
schaften Deutschland's in 19. Jahrhundert, 1884. 

Katalog der Bibliothek des deutschen Eeichstags. 

Nieder-osterreichischer Amts-Kalender, Wien, 1884. 

Pugh's Queensland Almanac, 1884, 1885. 

Sveriges Staats-Kalender, 1884. 



[The figure [i] at the end of the title Indicates recipients of the Smithsonian Report; [ii], thone who re- 
ceive the Report and tho Miscellaneoiu OolUctiont ; fiii], those who receive the two preceding uad 
the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. ] 

AFRICA. 

AliGERIA. 

Algiers. 

1. "Alger Medical" {Algiers Medical), [i] 
3. Biblioth^que de la Ville {City Library), [ij 
5. ;ficole de M6deciiie et de Pharmacie d' Alger {School of Medi- 
cine and Fliarmacy of Algiers), [i] 
7. ]6cole Sup6rieiire des Sciences : — Laboratoire de Physiologie 

(High School of Sciences — Physiological Laboratory). 
9. Journal de M6decine et de Pharmacie de I'Alg^rie {Medical 

and Fharmaceutical Journal of Algeria), [i] 
11. Observatoire National {National Observatory), [i] 
13. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture d'Alger {Algiers Agricultural Society) . [i] 
15. Soci6t6 Alg^rieune de Climatologie, Sciences Physiques et 
Naturelles {Algerian Society of Climatology, Physical and 
Natural Sciences), [i] 

17. Soci6t6 BUstoTiqueAlgerieune {Algerian Historical Society), [i] 
B6ne. 

19. Acad^mie d'Hippone — Societe de Eecherche Scientifique et 
d'Acclimatation ( Veterinary Accddemy — Society for Scien- 
tific Research and Acclimatioti). [i] 
Constantine. 

21. Soci^t6 Arch^ologique de la Provin^^e de Constantine {Archceo- 
logical Society of the Province of Constantine). [i] 
Oran. 

23. Soci6t6 de G^ographie d'Oran ( Geographical Society of Oran). 
[To be addressed to care of M. Julian Poinssot, 15 Rue 
Eoyer-CoUand, Paris, France.] 

AZORES. 

ne Terceira. 

25. Observatoire M6t6orologique {Meteorological Observatory), [i] 

CAPE coLomr. 

Cape Town {Cape of Good Hope). 

27. Agricultural Society, [i] 

29. Folklore Journal. 

31. Geological Survey of the Colony. 



72 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Cape Town {Cape of Good Hope). — Continued. 
33. Meteorological Commission. 
35. Eoyal Observatory, [iii] 
37. Sir George Gray's Library. 
39. South African Museum, [i] 
41. South African Philosophical Society. [1] 
43. South Africa Public Library, [iiij 

Somerset East. 

45. Gill College, [i] 

EGYPT. 

Alexandria. 

47. Minist^re de I'lnt^rieur {Interior Department). 

Cairo. 

49. The Kh6dive of Egypt, [i] 

61. Biblioth^que Centrale {Central Library), [i] 

[Bureau de Statistique — ceased to exist, but the former di- 
rector requests continuation of publications.] 
63. Institut figyptien {Institute of Egypt), [iii] 
65. Mus^e de Boulaq {Boulaq Museum), [i] 
67. Observatoire Kh^divial {EhSdival Observatory), [i] 
59. Soci6t6 ;Sgyptienne {Egyptian Society), [i] 
61. Soci6t6 Kh^diviale de G^ographie {Khedival Geographical 
Society), [i] 

GTJTSTKA. 

Lagos. 

63. Wesleyan College. 

X.IBKKIA. 

Monrovia. 

65. Government Library, [iii] 
67. Liberia College, [iii] 

MADEIRA. 

Fnnchal. 

69. ObseTvatoiTe'M6t6oTologiqne {Meteorological Observatory), [i] 

MALTA. 

Malta. 

71. Public Library, [ij 

MAURirrus. 

Pamplemonses. 

73. Meteorological and Magnetical Observatory, [ij 



LIST OF FOEEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 73 

Port Louis. 

75. Library of Port Louis, [i] 

77. Meteorological Society of Mauritius, [i] 

79. Eoyal Society of Arts aud Sciences, [ij 

81. Soci(5t6 d'Acclimatation {Acclimation Society), [i] 

83. Soci6t6 d'Histoire Naturelle {Natural History Society). 

>_ ,. MOZAMBIQITE. 

Mozambiqne. 

85. ^ociedad de GeogiaHa {Geogra:phical Society) . [i] 

„^ — , ST. HELENA. 

St. Helena. 

87. Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory, [i] 
89. St. Helena Library, [i] 



AMERICA (KORTH). 

BEITISH AMERICA. 

CANADA. 

Belleville (Ontario). 

91. Mufchison Scientific Society. 

93. Ontario Institute for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind. 

Cape Rouge {Quebec). 

95. Le ii[aturaliste Canadien (Canadian Naturalist), [i] 

Charlottetown (Prince Edward Island). 
97. Legislative Library. 

Clifton (Ontario). 

99. Victoria University. 

Guelph (Ontario). 

101. Ontario School of Agriculture, [i] 

Hamilton (Ontario). 

103. Hamilton Association. 

Kingston (Ontario). 

105. Botanical Society of Canada. 
107. Queen's University. 

London (Ontario). 

109. Canadian Entomologist, [i] 

111. Entomological Society [formerly in Toronto]. [1] 

Montreal (Quebec). 

113. Canadian Antiquarian and Numismatic Chronicle. 

115. Canadian Naturalist and Geologist, 
• 117. Department of Public Instruction, [ij 

119. Ecole Normale Jacques Cartier (Jacques Gartier Normal 
School), [i] 

121. Journal de I'lnsti notion Publique (^Journal of Public In- 
struction). 

123. Legislative Library of the Province of Quebec, [i] 

125. McGiU University, [iii] 

127. Natural History Society, [i] 

129. Numismatic and Antiquarian Society, [i] 

131. Eoyal Society of Canada. 

74 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 75 

Montreal (Quebec)— Coutinned. 

133. Soci^t6 Historique de Montreal {Historical Society of Man 

treal). |i] 
135. St. Laurent College. 

Ottawa (Ontario). 

137. Academy of Natural Sciences. 

139. Department of Agriculture, [i] 

141. Field Naturalists' Club. 

143. Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada, [iii] 

145. Library of Parliament, [iii] 

147. Literary and Scientific Society, [i] 

149. Young Men's Christian Association. 

Port Hope (Ontario). 

151. Trinity College School, [i] 

ftuebec (Quebtc). 

153. Department of Agriculture. 

155. Geographical Society of Quebec, [i] 

157. Literary and Historical Society of Quebec, [i] 

159. Parliamentary Library. 

161. University Laval (Laval University), [iii] 

St. Catherine (Ontario). 

163. Fruit Growers' and Forestry Association [formerly in To- 
ronto], [i] 

Toronto (Ontario). 

165. Canadian Institute, [ill] 

167. Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. 

169. Department of Education. 

171. Government of Canada, [i] 

173. Legislative Library. 

175. Magnetic Observatory, [i] 

177. Meteorological Office of the Dominion of Canada, [i] 

179. Natural History Society of Toronto. 

181. Public Library. 

183. School of Practical Science. 

185. The Canadian Educational Monthly Publishing Company. 

187. Toronto Globe. 

189. Trinity College. 

191. University College, [iii] 

MAISITOBA. 

Fort Garry. 

,19.'^. Institute of Prince Eupert's Land. 



76 LIST OF FOKEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

"Winnipeg. 

195. Department of Agriculture, Statistics, and Health. 
197. Legislative Library. 

199. Manitoba Historical and Scientific Society, [iii] 
201. St. John's CoUege. 

NICTT BKUXS'WICK. 

Fredericton. 

203. Legislative Library. 

205. Mechanics' Institute. 

207. Office of Agriculture of the Province of New Brunswick. 

209. University of New Brunswick, [iii] 

St. John's. 

211. Natural History Society, [i] 
213. Observatory. 
215. Public Library. 

io:wFOTrNi>x.Ain>. 

St. John's. 

217. Geological Survey of Newfoundland, [i] 
219. Legislative Library. 
221. "North Star." 

NOVA SCOTIA. 

Halifax. 

223. Botanical Society of Canada. 

225. Dalhousie College, [i] 

227. Department of Mines, [i] 

229. Legislative Library. 

231. Nova Scotia Historical Society, [i] 

233. Nova Scotia Institute of Natural Sciences, [i] 

235. Nova Scotia Medical Society, [i] 

237. University of Halifax. 

PictOTL 

239. Pictou Academy. 

Windsor. 

241. University of King's College. 

Wolfville. 

243. Acadia College. 

245. Acadian Science Club. 

OENTEAL AMERICA. 

COSTA KICA. 

San Jo86. 

247. Central Office of Statistics and Meteorology. 
249. University of Costa Rica, [iiij 



LIST OF FOREIGIS CORRESPONDENTS. 77 

GUATEMALA. 

Guatemala. 

251, Institute a!Tacional de Guatemala {National Institute of Ouata- 

mala). [ii.i] 
253. Meteorological Observatory. 
255. Secretaria de Fomento {Department of Interior). 

NICAJBAGUA. 

Grenada. 

257. Grenada College. 

SAN SAXVADOR. 

San Salvador. 

259. Museo Nacional {National Museum). 

MEXICO. 

Chapultepec {Tacubaya). 

261. Observatorio Astronomico Nacional {National Astronomical 
Observatory), [i] 

Guadalajara {Jalisco). 

263. Soci6t6 des Ing^nieurs de Jalisco {Engineers^ Society of Jalisco). 
265. Sociedad M6dica de Guadalajara {Medical Society of Guadala- 
jara), [i] 

Guanajuato {Guanajuato). 

267. Colegio del Estado {State College), [i] 

269. Observatorio Meteorologico del Colegio del Estado {Meteoro- 
logical Observatory of the State College). 

M^rida {Yucatan). 

271. Sociedad M6dica Farmaceutica {Medico-Pharmaceutical So- 
ciety), [i] 
273. Tucate Eegister ( Yucatan Register). 

Mexico. 

275. Academia de Medicina {Academy of Medicine), [ij 

277. Asociacion M6dico Quirurgica " Larrey " {^^Larrey^ Medico- 

Ghirurgical Society), [i] 
279. Biblioteca Nacional {National Library). 
281. City Council. 

283. Direction G6n6ral de la Statistique {Bureau of Statistics). 
285. El Museo Nacional {National Museum), [i] 
287. Escuela de Agricultura {Agricultural School), [i] 
289. Escuela de Medicina {Medical School), [i] 
291. Escuela Nacioual de Ingeneiros {National School of Engineers). 

[iii] 
293. Escuela Nacional Preparatoria {National Preparatory School). 

[i] 



78 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Mexico — Continued. 

295. Mexican Government, [i] 

297. Ministerio de Fomento, Colouizacion, Industria y Comercio 
{Department of Interior^ Colonization, Industry, and Com- 
merce), [i] 

299. Ministerio de Justicia y Instruccion Publica {Department of 
Justice and Public Instruction). 

301. Ministerio de Trabajo Publica {Department of Public WorJcs). 

303. Observatorio Meteorologico Central {Central Meteorological 
Observatory), [ij 

305. Eevista Cientifica Mexicana {Mexican Scientific Review). 

307. Sociedad "Andres del Eio" {Society ''Andres del Bio ")• [i] 

309. Sociedad Cientifica "Antonio Alzate" {Scientific Society '^An- 
tonio Alzate^^). 

311. Sociedad Filoiatrica y de Beneficencia de los Alumnos de la 
Escuela de Medicina {Alumni Beneficial Society of the Med- 
ical College), [i] 

313. Sociedad Humboldt {Humboldt Society), [i] 

315. Sociedad M^dica {Medical Society), [i] 

317. Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadistica {Mexican Geo- 
graphical and Statistical Society), [iii] 

319. Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural {Mexican Natural 
History Society), [iii] 

321. Sociedad Minera Mexicana {Mexican Mineralogical Society). 

lij 
323. University of Mexico. 

Puebla {Puebla). 

325. Observatorio Meteorologico del Colegio Catolico {Meteorologi- 
cal Observatory of the Catholic College). 

San luis Fotosi {San Luis Potosi). 

327. Instituto Cientifica y Literaria {Scientific and Literary Insti 

tute). [iJ 
329. Sociedad M6dica {Medical Society), [i] 

Toluca. 

331. Instituto Literario del Estado de Mexico {Literary Institute of 
tlie State of Mexico), [i] 

WEST INDIES. 

BAHAJVIAS. 

New Providence. 

333. Nassau Public Library, [i] 

BAKBADOES. 

Bridgetown. 

335. Government Meteorological OflBce. [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 7U 

BEBMUDAS. 

Hamilton. 

337. Bermuda Library, [i] 

CUBA. 

Habaua {Havana). 

339. Academia de Cieucias M^dicas, Fisicas, y Naturales de la 
Habana {Academy of Medical, Physical, and Natural 
Sciences of Havana), [i] 

.341. Administraciou General de Oorreos delalsla de Cuba {Post 
Office Department of the Island of Cuba). 

343. luspeccion General de Telegrafos {Inspector- General of Tele- 
graphs), [i] 

345. Instituto de Segenada Euseiianza de la Habana {Institute for 
Preliminari} Education in Sciences and Letters). 

347. Observatorio Magu6tico y Meteorologico del Real Colegio de 
Belen {Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory of the 
Royal College of Bclen). [i] 

349. Keal Observatorio Fisico-Meteorologico de la Habana {Royal 
Physico-Meteorological Observatory of Havana), [i] 

351. Eeal Sociedad Economica de la Habana {Royal Economic 
Society of Havana) . [i ii ] 

353. Eeal Universidad de la Habana {Royal University of Ha- 
vana), [i] 

355. Revista General de Coinunicaciones {General Review of Com' 
munications). 

357. Sociedad Antropologica {Anthropological Society), [i] 

GUADELOUPE. 

Point-a-Pitre. 

359. Mus^e I'Uerminier {Herminier Museum), [ij 

JAMAICA. 

Kingston. 

361. Public Museum. 

363. Royal Society of Arts of Jamaica, [iii] 

TKINLDAD. 

Port of Spain. 

365. Scientific Society of Trinidad, [i] 

TURK'S ISLANDS. 

Grand Turk. 

367. Public Library of Turk's and Caicos Islands, [i] 



AMEKICA (SOUTH). 

ARGENTINE BEPTJB1,IC. 

Buenos Aires. 

369. Asociacion Mddica Bonaereuse {Buenos Aires Medical So- 
ciety), [i] 

371. Biblioteca Nacional {National Library), [ij 

373. Biblioteca Publica {Public Library), [i] 

375. Instituto Geogrdfico Argentino {Argentine Geographical In- 
stitute), [i] 

377. Instituto Historio-Geografico del Rio de la Plata {Historio- 
Geographical Institute of La Plata). 

379. Ministere de l'Int(?rienr {Department of the Interior). 

381. Ministere des Affaires Etrangeres {Foreign Office). 

383. Municipal Authority. 

385. Museo Publico de Buenos Aires {Public Museum of Buenos 
Aires), [iii] 

387. Oficina Nacional de Estadistica Comercial de la Republica 
Argentina (National Bureau of Commercial Statistics of 
the Argentine Republic). 

389. Sociedad Cientifica Argentina {Argentine Scientific Soci- 
ety), [i] 

391. Sociedad Entomol6gica Argentina {Argentine Entomological 
Society), [i] 

393. Sociedad Paleontol6gica de Buenos Aires {Paleontological 
Society of Bunso Aires), [i] 

395. Sociedad Rural Argentina {Agricultural Society). [iJ 

397. Sociedad Zoologica Argentina {Zoological Society), [i] 

399. Statistical Bureau, [i] 

401. Universidad de Buenos Aires ( University of Btienos Aires) 
[Biblioteca UniversitariaJ. [i] 
Cordoba. 

403. Academia Nacional de Ciencias Exactes {National Academy 
of Exact Sciences), [i] 

405. Observatorio Nacional Argentino {Argentine National Obser- 
vatory), [i] 

407. Oficina Meteorologica Argentina {Argentine Meteorological 
Bureau), [i] 

409. Periodico Zoologico {Zoologist). 

La Plata. 

411. Oficina General de Estadistica de la Provincia de Buenos 
Aires {General Statistical Bureau of the Province of Buenos 
Aires). 

80 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 81 

BOLrVTA. 

Chuquisaca. 

413. University, [i] 

BRAZIL. 

Fortaleza {Ceard). 

415. Library. 

Eio Janeiro. 

417. Emperor of Brazil, [iii] 

419. Annals Brazil de Medicine [Brazilian Annals of Medicine). 

421. "Auxiliador de Industria Nacional" {J.wa;i/mr^ of National 
Industry), fij 

423. Biblioteca National {National Library). [\\] 

425. British Library, [i] 

427, Commissao Central Brazileiro de Permutacoes Internacio- 
naes [Central Brazilian Commission of International Ex- 
changes). 

429. Conseil Municipal [Municipal Council). 

431, Escola de Mines de Onro Preto [Mining Academy of Ouro 
Preto). 

433. Gazeta M^dica [Medical Gazette). 

435. Government of Brazil, [i] 

437. Imperial Academy of Medicine. 

439. Institute Historico, Geografico y Ethnografico [Historical, 
Geographical^ and Ethnographical Institute), [ij 

44L Ministere des Travaus Publiques, du Commerce et de I'Agri- 
culture [Department of Public Works, Commerce, and Ag- 
riculture). 

443. Ministerio dos Negacios Estrangeiros [Foreign Office). 

445. Museu Nacional [National Museum), [i] 

447. Nautical Observatory, [i] 

449. Palaestra Scientific Society. |1J 

451. Eoyal Geographical Society, [i] 

453. Seccion de la Sociedad Geografia de Lisbon [Section of tlie 
Lisbon Geographical Society). 

455. Sociedad Geologica de Kio Janeiro ( Geological Society of Eio 
Janeiro). 

457. Statistical Bureau. 

San Paulo. 

459. Morton College. 

BRITISH GUIANA. 

Georgetown. • 

461. Geological Survey of British Guiana. 
463. Observatory, [i] 
465. Queen's College, [i] 

467. Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, fi] 
H. iMis. 15 G 



82 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

CHILE. 

Santiago. - , 

469. Academia Militar (Military Academy), fi] 
471. Biblioteca Nacional {National Library), [iii] 
473. Bureau de Statistique {Bureau of Statistics), [i] 
475. Bl Piano TopogrA&co {TojJograplHc Bureau), [i] 
477. Government of Chile, [i] 
479. Meteorological Office. 

481. Miuistere de I'lnt^rieur {Department of the Interior). 
483. Ministro de Instruccion Publico {Department of Public In- 
struction), [i] 
485. Museo Nacional {National Museum). 
487. Observatorio Nacional {National Observatory), [i] 
489. Oficiaa Hidrografica de Chile {Hydrograpliic Office), [i] 
491. Sociedad de Historia Natural {Natural History Society), [i] 
493. Sociedad Medica {Medical Society). [Calle de San Diego, 

No. 47.] [i] 
495. Universidad de Chile {University of Chile), [iii] 

Valparaiso. 

497. Direction de la Statistique du Commerce {Bureau of Com- 
mercial Statistics). 

COIiOMBIA. 

Bogota. 

499. Central Commission of Exchange — National Library. 

501. Government of Colombia, [i] 

503. National Library, [iii] 

505. Observatorio Astronomico Nacional {National Astronomical 
Observatory). 

507. Observatorio Flammarion {Flammarion Observatory). 

509. Secretaire des Travaux Publiques et des Postes {Department 
of Public Works and Post- Office Department). 

511. Sociedad de Estadistica y Geografia de Colombia {Statistical 
and Geographical Society of Colombia). 

513. Sociedad de Medicina y Ciencias Naturales (^ocie^2/ of Medi- 
cine and Natural Sciences). 

515. Sociedad de Naturalistas Colombiauos {Society of Colombian 
Naturalists), [i] 

Medellin. 

517. UniYersit^ (VAntioqma, {University of Aiitiochia). [i] 



Panama. 



519. Administrador de la Aduana {Customs Office). 

521. Gazetta Oficial de Panama ( Official Gazette of Panama.) 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 83 

DUTCH GUIANA. 

Bahia. 
* 523. Belgian Cousulate. [ij 

Paramaribo. 

525. Siirinaaiusche Koloniaale Bibliotheek {Surinam Colonial 

Library), [i] 

ECUADOR. 

Quito. 

527. Ministere des Finances et des Travaux Publiques {Depart- 
ment of Finances, and Public Worlis). 
^529. Observatorio Astronomico del Colegio IS'acional {Astronom- 
ical Observatory of the National College), [i] 

PARAGUAY. 

Asuncion. 

531. Minister of Foreign Relations, 
533. United States Consulate, [i] 



Lima. 



PERU. 

535. Academia de Ciencias 'Niiturales{ Academy of Natural Sciences). 

537. Cuerpo de Ingenieros del Peru {Engineer Corps). [iJ 

539. Escuelii de Ingeniero {Engineer School). • 

541. Facultad de Medicina {Medical Faculty). 

543. Minister of the Interior. 

545. National Library, [iii] 

547. Sociedad Geografica {Geographical Society). 

549. Statistical Bureau, [i] 

551. Universidad {University), [i] 

URUGUAY. 

Montevideo. 

553. Bureau de Statistique {Statistical Bureau), [i] 

555. Government of LTruguay. 

557. Ministere de ¥ini\nce {Treasury Deiyartment). [i] 

559, Ministere de la Guerre ( War Department), [i] 

561. Soci6t6 de Medicine {Medical Society), [i] 

563. United States Consulate, [i] 

VENEZUELA. 

Caracas. 

565. Escuela M^dica {Medical School), [i] 

567. Gazeta Cientifica {Scientific Gazette), [i] 

569. La Union Medica — Organo del Gremio M6dico de Venezuela 
{Medical Union; — Organ of the Medical Society of Vene- 
zuela). 

571. Sociedad de Ciencias Fisicas y ISTaturales {Society of Physical 
and Natural Sciences). 

573. Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais {Economical Soci- 
ety of the Friends of Peace), [iii] 

575. Univei'sidad de Caracas ( University of Caracas^. 



ASIA. 

BRITISH BUKMAH. 

Rangoon. 

577. The Chief Engineer of British Burmah. 

CHINA. 

Canton. 

579. Deputy of the Bureau of Foreign Affairs, 'i] 

Hong-Kong. 

581. Meteorological Observatory. 

Pekin. 

583. Imperial Tungwen College, [ij 
685. Kung-Pu [Board of Worlcs). 

Shanghai. 

[Chinese Educational Mission School — does not exist.] 
587. Chinese Government Department for the Translation of For- 
eign Scientific Books. 
589. Chinese Polytechnic Institution and Beading Eoom. 
591. Chinese Scientific and Industrial Magazine. 
593. Imperial Chinese Maritime Customs, Engineer's Office, [i] 
[KwongKi-Chiu. (See Deputy of the Bureau of Foreign 
Affairs in Canton.)] 
695. Literary and Debating Society. 
597. Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory of the Imperial 

Eussian Legation, [i] 
599. Royal Asiatic Society (China Branch). [Care of James 
Bairn, 1 Haymarket, London, England.] [iii] 
[Scientific Society— does not exist.] 
601. Statistical Department of Inspector-General of Customs. 
603. Zi-Ka-Wei Observatory, [i] 

INDIA. 

Allahabad. 

607. Meteorological Eeporter to the Government. [iJ 

Benares. 

609. Sanscrit College, [i] 

84 



1 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 85 

Bombay. 

611. Agricultural Departmeut of the Bombay Preaideiicy. 

613. Bombay Geographical Society, [iii] 
, 615. Bombay Government, [i] 

617. Geological Society. ' 

619. Government Central Museum, [i] 

621. Government College (formerly Bombay University), [ij 

623. Government Observatory, Colaba. [iJ 

625. Literary Society of Bombay. 

627. Meteorological OfiBlce. [i] 

629. Eoyal Asiatic Society (Bombay Branch), [iii] 

631. Sassoon Meclianics' Institute, [i] 
633. Sir Jamsetjee Jeejeebhoy Translation Fund, [i] 
635. " Tlie Indian Antiquary." [i] 

Calcutta. 

637. Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India, [i] 

639. Asiatic Society of Bengal, fiii] 

641. Chamber of Commerce, [i] 

643. Geological Survey of India. [Packages to be sent to the care 

of Trlibner & Co., London, England.] [iii] 
•645. Imperial Indian Museum, [i] 
647. Indian Medical Gazette. [iJ 
649. Indian Museum. 
651. Medical and Physical Society, [i] 
653. Meteorological Office, [i] 
655. Eevenue and Agricultural Department. [1] 
657. St. Xavier's College. 
659. Surgeon-General's Office. 
601. Under Secretary to Government of Bengal, [i] 

Colombo (Ceylon). 

663. Government of Ceylon, [i] 

665. Observatory of Mr. Green, [i] 

667. Office of the Meteorological System. [iJ 

669. Eoyal Asiatic Society (Ceylon Branch), [iii] 

Dehra-Dun. 

671. Great Trigonometrical Survey of India. [iJ 

Goa. 

673. Escola Medico-Cirurgica [Medico- Surgical ScJwol). [Packages 
to be sent through the Escola Polytechnica, Lisbon, Por- 
tugal.] [i] 

Jafiha {Ceylon). 

675. Jaffna College. [iJ 

Kurrachee. 

677. Municipal Library and Museum, [i] 



86 LIST OF FOliElGN COllKEttPONDENTS. 

Madras. 

679. Archaeological Survey of Southern ludia. 

681. East India Company's Office, [i] 

683. Government Central Museum and Library, [i] 

685. Literary Society, [iiij 

687. M^idras Journal of Literature and Science. 

689. Madras Observatory, [i] 

691. "Theosophist." 

Neilgherries. 

693. Public Library, [i] 

Poonah. 

695. Civil Engineering College. 

Roorkee. 

697. Thomason College of Civil Engineering, [ill] 

Saharaupus. 

698. Government Botanical Garden. 

Simla. 

699. Eevenue and Agricultural Department, Government of India. 
701. Surgeon-General of India. 

703. United Service Institution of India, [i] 

Trevandrum. 

705. Observatory of His Highness the Eajah of Travancore. [i] 
707. Trevandrum Museum. 

JAPAN. 

Tokio. 

709. Emperor of Japan, [i] 

711. Agricultural Bureau of Japan. 

713. Asiatic Society of Japan (formerly in Yokohama), [i] 

715. Chi-ga-ku-kio-kuwai {Geographical Society), [i] 

717. Chi-shi-tsu-kio-ku {Bureau of Geological Surveying). [Com- 
merce and Agricultural Department.] 

719. Department of Law, Science, and Literature in the Tokio 
Daigaku. 

721. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Volkerkunde Ost- 
Asiens {German Society of Natural History and Ethnology 
of Eastern Asia), [i] 

723. Kiyoiku Hakubutsukwan {Educational Department). 

725. Minister of Foreign Affairs. 

727. Mombusho Museum {Educational Museum of the Imperial Uni- 
versity). [Care of Kiyoiku Hakubusukwan.] [iii] 

729. Observatory of the Tokio Daigaku. [i] 

731. Roma-Ji-Kwai {Society for the Translation of Japanese in Ro- 
man Letters). 



LIST OF FOKEIGN COKKESPONDENTS. 87 

Tokio — Continued. 

733. Seismological Society of Japan. 

735. Sci-I-Kwai [Society for the Advancement of Medical Science). 

737. Society of Health. 

739. Tokio Daigaku {Imperial University). [Formerly Kdisei 

GakkoJ. [iii] 
741. Tokio Dzusliokwan (Tokio Library). 

Yokohama. 

743. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Naturwissenschaft uud Heilkunde 

{German Society for Natural and Medical Sciences). 
745. Imperial College, [ij 
747. Japanese Gazette. 

JAVA. 

Batavia. 

749. Bataviaasche Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen 
{Batavian Academy of Arts and Sciences), [iii] 

751. Geneeskundige Vereeniging in jS'ederlandsch-Indie (Medical 
Association of Netherlands-India), [i] 

753. Koninklijke Naturkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch- 
Indie {Royal Natural History Society of Netherlands- 
India), [iii] 

755. Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory. [»i] 

767. Nederlaudsch-IndischeMaatschappij van Nij verheid en Land- 
bouw {Industrial and Agricultural Society of Netherlands- 
India), [ij 

759. Tidschrift for Indische Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde {Journal 
of Indian Philology and FolMore). 

761. Tidschrift for Nederlandsch-Indie {Gazette of Netherlands- 
India), [ij 
Buitenzorg. 

763. Botanischer Garten {Botanical Garden). 

Samaraug. 

765. Indisch Aardrijkskundig Genootschap {Indian Geographical 
Society), [i] 

PBXLEPPINE ISLANDS. 

Manila. 

767. Horto Botanico Manilensis (J5otomcaZ Garden of Manila), [i] 
769. Observatorio Meteorologico del Ateneo Municipal {Meteoro- 
logical Observatory of the Municipal University), [i] 
771. Eoyal Economical Society, [iii] 

STRAITS SETTLEMENT. 

Singapore. 

773. Convict Jail Hospital, [i] 

775. Eaffles Library and Museum, [i] 

777. Royal Asiatic Society, [i | 



AUSTRALASIA. 

AUSTEALIA. 

NEW SOUTH WALES. 

Sydney. 

779. Agricultural Society of Xew South Wales, [i] 

781. Australian Museum, [i] 

783. "Australian Practitioner." [ij 

785. Corporation of the City of Sydney. [iJ 

787. Council of Education, [i] 

789. Free Public Library, [i] 

791. Geographical Institute, [i] 

793. Geographical Society of Australasia (New South Wales 

Branch). 
795. Government of New South Wales. [i| 
797. Government Observatory, [i] 
799. Linuean Society of New South Wales, [i] 
801. Mining Department, [i] 
803. Parliamentary Library. 
805. Royal Society of New South Wales, [iii] 
807. Sydney College Library, [i] 
809. Technical and Working Men's College. 
811. University of Sydney, [iii] 

"Windsor. 

813. Private Observatory of John Tebbutt. [i] 

QUEENSLAND. 

Brishane. 

815. Acclimatization Society, [i] 
817. Colonial Secretary's Office, [i] 

[Government of Queensland. (See Colonial Secretary's 
Office.)] 
819. Government Meteorological Observatory, [i] 
821. Parliamentary Library, [i] 
823. Queensland Museum of Natural History. 
825. Eegistrar-General. 
827. Eoyal Society of Queensland. 

TownsviUe. 

829. Geological Survey of Queensland. 

88 



LIST OF FOEKIGiS' COKRESPONDENTS. ^i) 

SOUTH AUSTKAIilA. 

Adelaide. 

831. Adelaide University, [i] 

835. Astronomical Observatory, [i] 

837. Government Botanic Garden, fi] 

839. Government of South Australia, [i] 

841. Inspector-General of Schools, [i] 

843. Parliamentary Library, [i] 

845. Eoyal Society of South Australia, [i] 

847. South Australia Institute, [ij 

TASMANIA. 

Hobarton. 

849. Government of Tasmania, fi] 

851. Library of Parliament. 

853. Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory. [1] 

855. Museum of the Eoyal Society of Tasmania and Herbarium 

and Botanical Department. 
857. Eoyal Society of Tasmania. [Packages sent through G. 

W. Wheatley & Co., 1G5 LeadenhaU street, London, 

E. C.] [iii] 
859. Tasmania Public Library, [i] 
[Mechanics' Institute — closed.] 

Launceston. 

8G1. Launceston Public Library, [i] 

863. Mechanics' Institute and School of Arts, [i] 

VICTORIA. 

Collingwood. 

865. Field Naturalists' Club of Victoria, [i] 

Emerald Hill. 

867. Mechanics' Institute, [i] 

Melbourne. 

869. Australian Medical Journal, [i] 

871. Botanical Garden, [i] 

873. Corporation of the City of Melbourne, [i] 

875. Department of Mines and Water Supply, [i] 

877. Eclectic Association of Victoria, [ij 

879. Field Naturalists' Club. 

881. Geographical Society, [i] 

883. Geological Survey of Victoria. [iJ 

885. Government of Victoria, [i] 

887. Melbourne Museum. 

889. Melbourne Observatory, [i] 

[Mining Department. (See Department of Mines, &c.)] 



90 LIST OF FOREIGN CORKESPONDENTS> 

Melbourne — Continued. 

891. National Museum of Victoria, [i] 

893. Natural History Society, [ij 

895. Parliamentary Library. 

897. Public Library, Museum, and National Gallery, (iiij 

899. Eoyal British Branch Mint, [i] 

901. Eoyal Philosophical Society of Victoria, [i] 

903. Eoyal Society of Medicine, [i] 

905. Eoyal Society of Victoria, [i] 

907. Southern Science Eecord. 

909. University of Melbourne, [iii] 

911. Zoological and Acclimatization Society, [i] 

WEST AUSTRAXIA. 

Perth. 

913. Meteorological Superintendent. [1] 

NEW ZEALAND. 

Auckland. 

915. Auckland Free Public Library, [i] 
917. Auckland Institute, [i] 
919. Auckland Museum. 

Christchnrch. 

921. Canterbury Acclimatization Society, [i] 

923. Canterbury Museum, [i] 

925. Geological Survey Qf the Province of Canterbury, [i] 

927. Philosophical Institute of Canterbury, [i] 

Dunedin. 

929. Otago Institute, [i] 
931. Otago Museum, [i] 
933. Otago University. 

Hokitika. 

935. Westland Institute, [i] 

Invercargill. 

937. Scotland Institute. 

Nelson. 

939. Nelson Association for the Promotion of Science and In 

dustry. [i] 
941. Nelson Institute, [i] 

Wellington. 

943. Chief Inspector of Weights and Measures, [i] 
945. Colonial Botanic Garden, [i] 
947. Colonial Laboratory, [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 1)1 

"Wellington — Contiuued. 

949. Colonial Museum and Geological Survey Department, [i] 

951. Colonial Observatory, [i] 

953. Government of New Zealand, [i] 

955. Government Observatory, [i] 

957. Government Printing Office. 

959. Meteorological and Weather Department, [i] 

961. New Zealand Geological Survey, [i] 

963. New Zealand Institute, [ii] 

965. New Zealand Public Library, [i] 

966. Parliamentary Library, [iii] 

967. Patent Office Library, [i] 

978. Wellington Philosophical Society, [i] 

969. Wellington Public Library. [1] 

970. Westland Naturalists' and Acclimatization Society. [i] 

POLYNESIA.. 

SANDWICH ISLANDS. 
Honolulu. 

971. Government Geological Survey. 

972. Hawaiian Gazette. 

973. Hawaiian Govenment Library. 

974. Minister of the Interior. 

975. Oahu College. 

[Eoyal Agricultural Society has turned over its books to 
the Hawaiian Government Library.] 

976. Scientific Society. 



EUROPE. 

AUSTRIA-HTTNGAEY. 

Agram [Zagrab] (Croatia). 

977. Gesellschaft fiir sudslavische Alterthumer [Society for South 

Slavic Antiquities), [i] 
979. Handels- unci Gewerbe-Kammer fiir Kroatien {Chamber of 

Commerce and Board of Trade for Croatia), [i] 
981. Kroatisclie Archaologische Gesellschaft {Croatian Archce- 

ological Society). 
983. Kroatisch-Slavonische Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft {Ag- 

7-ieultural Society), [i] 
985. Landwirthschaftliche Zeitung {Agricultural Journal), [i] 
987. National Museum, [i] 
989. Eedaktion der "Gospodarski List" {Editor of the ^^Gos- 

podarsTci List.''') [i] 
991. Siidslavische Akademie der Wissenschaften und Kiinste 

{South Slavic Academy of Sciefice and Art), [i] 
993. Trogovacko Obrtnicka Koniora {Statistical Bureau), [ij 
995. JJniyer&itSbt {University), [i] 

Bistritz {Aiistria). 

997. Gewerbeschule {Industrial School). [1] 

Bregenz {Aust7-ia). 

999. Vorarlberger Museums- Verein ( Vorarlberg Museum Society). 

[iJ 

Briinn {Austria). 

1001. K. K. Malirisch-Schlesische Gesellschaft fiir Ackerbau, 
Katur- und Landeskunde {Imperial Royal Moravian- Si- 
lesian Society of Agriculture, Natural History, and Geog- 
raphy), [i] 
1003. Mahrisch-Schlesisches Blindeu-Erziehungs-Institut {Mora- 
vian- Silesian liistitute for Educating the Blind). [iJ 
1005. Naturforschender Verein {Naturalists Society) [jii] 

Budapest {Hungary). 

1007. Fovarosi statisztikai Hivatal {Statistical Bureau), [i] 
1009. Geologische Gesellschaft fiir Ungarn {Geological Society oj 

Hungary), [iii] 
1011. Handels- Akademie {Commercial Academy) [i] 

92 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. Oo 

Budapest {HviKjary) — Continued. 

1013. Handels- und Gewerbe-Kammer {Ghambet'of Commerce and 
Trade). \i] 

1015. iDdustrielle Gesellscbaft {Industrial Society), [i] 

1017. K. K. Egyetem Katbol. Fogyninasium {Imperial Eoyal Cath- 
olic Gymnasium), [i] 

1019. K. K. Sternwarte {Imperial Royal Observatory). 

1021. K. Geographisches Institiit {Boyal Geographical Institute). 

1023. K. Magyar Termeszettudom^nyi Tarsulat {Royal Hunga- 
rian Society of Natural Sciences), [iii] 

1025. K. Magyar Tudomanyos Egyetem {Royal Hungarian Uni- 
versity), [iiij 

1027. K. Ober-Gymuasium {Royal Higher Gymnasium), [i] 

1029. K. Ober-Realschule {Royal Practical School), [i] 

1031. K. Ungar. Ceutral-Austalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmag- 
netismus {Royal Hungarian Central Institute of Meteor- 
ology and Terrestrial Magnetism), [i] 

1033. K. Ungar. Geologiscbe Anstalt {Royal Hungarian Geologi- 
cal Institute), [i] 

1035. Lebens-Yersicberungs-Gesellschaft "Anker" ("Awc/wr" 
Life Insurance Company). 

1037. Magyar Foldrajzi Tarsasag. 

1039. Magyar Xemzeti Museum {Hungarian National Museum), [ij 

1041. Magyar Tudom4nyos Akademia {Hungarian Academy), [iiij 

1043. Ministerium fiir Agricultur und Industrie {Ministry of Ag- 
riculture and Industry), [i] 

1045. Musee d'Antbroi)ologie de rUniversite {Anthropological 
Museum of the University). 

1047. Naturtbrscbender Vereiu {Natural History Society). 

1049. Oesterreicb Ungariscbe Staats - Eisenbabn - Gesellscbaft 
{Austro-Hungarian Railroad Society). [Tberesien Eing 
30.J 

1051. Pestvarps vStatisztikai Hivatal {Statistical Bureau of the 
City). [iJ 

1053. Polytecbniscbe Schule {Polytechnic School). 

1055. Prasidium des Kouiglicb Fugariscben Ministeriums {Presi- 
dent of the Royal Hungarian Ministry). 

1057. Soci^t^ de G^ograpbie de Hongrie {Hungarian Geographical 
Society). \i] 

1059. Termeszetrajzi Fuzetk. 

Czernowitz {Austria). 

1061. K. K. Universitats-Bibliotbek {Imperial Royal University 

I/ibrary). [iiij 
10C3. Vereiu fiir Landeskultur und Landeskunde im Herzog- 

tbume Bukowina {Society for Agriculture and Geography 

of the Duchy of Bulcowina). [iJ 



94 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Fiume {Illyria). 

1065. K. K. Mariue-Akademie {Imperial Royal Naval Acad- 
emy), [i] 

Galacz {Austria). 

1067. Commission Europ6enne tie Danube {European Danube 
Commission), [i] 
Gorz {Ulyria). 

1069. K. K. Ackerbau-Gesellschaft {Imperial Royal Agricultural 
Society), [ij 

Gratz {Styria). 

1071. Akademie fiir Handel und Industrie {Academy of Commerce 
and Industry), [i] 

1073. Historischer Verein fiir Steiermark {Historical Society of 
Styria). [iJ 

1075. K. K. Erstes Staats-Gymiiasium {Imperial Royal State Gym- 
nasium), [i) 

1077. K. K. Steiermarkisclier Garteubau-Vereiu {Imperial Royal 
Styrian Horticultural Society), [i] 

1079. K. K. Steiermarkische Laudwirtbschafts-Gesellschaft {Im- 
perial Royal Sfyr*iaii Af/ricultural Society). [iJ 

1081. K. K. Universitat {Imperial Royal University), [iiij 

1083. Landes-Bibliothek am Steiermark. Landscbaftlicben Joan- 
neum {Styrian National Library at the Joanneuni). [i] 

1085. Mineralogiscbes Museum des Steiermilrkiscben Laud- 
schaftlicben Joanneums {Styrian Ijational Mineralogical 
Museum of the Joanneum), 

1087. Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein f'iir Steiermark {Styrian 
Society of Natural Sciences), [i] 

1089. Steiermiirkiscber Industrie- und Gewerbe- Verein {Styrian 
Industrial and Polytechnical Society), [i] 

1091. Steiermarkiscbe Landes-Ober-Realscbule {Styrian Higher 
'' ReaV School), [i] 

1093. Verein der Aerzte in Steiermark {Styrian Society of Physi- 
cians), [i] 

Hermaimstadt {Transylvania). 

1095. Siebenbiirgiscber Verein liirKaturwissenscbaften {Transyl- 

vanian Society of Natural Sciences), [iii] 
1097. Verein fiir Siebenbiirgiscbe Landeskunde {Transylvanian 
Geographical Society), [i] 
Innsbruck {Tyrol). 

1099. Ferdinandeum. [iii] 

1101. K. K. Nord-Tiroliscbe Landwirtbscbafts-Gesellschaft {Im 

perial Royal Agricultural Society of North Tyrol), [i] 
1103. Naturwissenscbaftlicb-Mediciniscber Verein {Society of Nat- 
ural and Medical Sciences), [i] 
1105. Universitats-Bibliotbek {University Library), fij 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 95 

Kalocsa {Hungary). 

1107. Stern-waTte {Observatory). 
» 
niagenfurth ( Carintliia),. 

1100. Geschichts-Verein fiirKarnten {Historical Society of Carin- 
tliia). [i] 

1111. Handels- unci Gewerbe-Kammer {Chamber of Commerce and 
Board of Trade), [ij 

1 113. Kiirntnerischer Garteubau- Vei ein ( Garinthian Horticultural 
Society). 

1115. Kiirutnerischer Industrie- iiud Gewerbe-Verein {Carinthiah 
Industrial and Polytechnical Association), [i] 

1117. K. K. Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft {Imperial Royal Ag- 
ricultural Society), [i] 

1110. K. K. Studien-Bibliothek {Imperial Eoyal Collegiate Li- 
brary), [i] 

1121. jSTaturhistoriscbes Laudes-Museuin in Karnten {Carinthian 
National Museum of Natural History). \i\ 

1123= Section Klagenfurt des Berg- und Hiittenmanniscben Ver- 
eines fiir Steiermark und Karnten {Klagenfurt Section of 
the Mining and Smelting Society of Styria and Carinthia) 

Klausenburg {Transylvania). 

1125. Edelyi Museum Egylet {National Musetim). [i] 
1127. Koniglicber Botaniscber Garten {Royal Botanical Garden). 
1120. Koniglicb Ungariscbe Universitat {Royal Hungarian Uni- 
versity). 
1131. Magyar Novenytani Lapok. [i] 

Kloster-neuburg {Austria). 

I 1133. Eevue Antipbyllox^ique {Anti- phylloxera Revieic). 

Krakau {Galicia). 

1135. Akademija Umiejetnosci {Academy of Sciences), [i] 
1137. Galiziscber Fiscberei-Yerein {Galician Piscicultural Soci- 
ety), [i]' 
1130. K. K. Universitats-Sternwarte {Imperial Royal University 

Observatory), [ij 
1141. ]\Iediciniscbe Gesellscbaft {Medical Society), [i] 
1143. Universitet Jagiellonski {Jagiellonslci University), [iiij 

KremsmUnster {Austria). 

1145. Sternwarte {Observatory), (i] 

Laibach {lllyria). 

1147. Historiscber Verein fiir Krain {Historical Society of Garni- 

ola). {[] 
1140. Juristiscbe Gesellscbaft {Jurists^ Association), [i] 



96 LIST OP FOREIGN OOKRESPONDENTS. 

Laibach {Illyria) — Continued. 

1151. K. K. Laudwirthscliafts-Gesellschaft {Imperial Royal Agri- 
cultural Society), [i] • 
1153. K. K. Studien-Bibliothek {Imperial Royal Gollefjiate Library). 
1155. Landes-Museum (National Museum), [i] 
1157. Matica Slovenska {Literary Society), [i] 

Lemberg {Galicia). 

1159. Franzens-Universitat {Francis University). 
1161. TJniYersitats-BternwiiTte {University Observatory), [i] 
1163. Zaklad narodowy imienia Ossolinskich {National Insti- 
tute), [i] 

Leoben {Styria). 

1165. K. K. Berg-Akademie {Imperial RoyalMining Academy), [ij 
1167. Oesterreichische Zeitschrift fiir das Berg- und Hiittenwesen 
{Austrian Mining and Smelting Journal). 

Linz {Austria). 

1169. Handels- und Gewerbe-Kammer Oberosterreicbs {Upper- 
Austrian Chamher of Commerce and Board of Trade), [i] 

1171. K. K. Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft {Imperial Royal Agri- 
cultural Society), [i] 

1173. K. K. offentliche Studien-Bibliothek {Imperial Royal Colle- 
giate Library). 

1175. Museum Francisco Carolinum {Museum Francisco Caroli- 
num). [i] 

Neutitschein {Austria). 

1177. Landwirthschaftlicher Yerein {Agricultural Society), [i] 

O'Gyalla {Hungary). 

1179. Astro-physikalisches Observatorium {Astro -Physical Obser- 
vatory), [i] 

Olmiitz {Moravia). 

1181. K. K. Deutsches Gymnasium {Imperial Royal German Gym- 
nasium), [i] 
1183. K. K. Ober-Eealscbule (Imperial Royal High ^'■ReaV School). 

[ij 
1185. K. K. Studien-Bibliothek {Imperial Royal Collegiate Library). 

fiii] 

Pola {Hhjria). 

1187. Hydrographisches Amt {Hydrographic Office). [iJ 

Prag {Bohemia). 

1189. Bohmische chemische Gesellschaft {Bohemian Chemical So- 
ciety), [i] 
1191. Biihmischer Gewerbe-Yerein {Bohemian Polytechnical So- 
ciety), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 97 

Prag (Bohemia) — Coutinued. 

1193. Couiitd fiir natnrwisseiischaltliche Landesclurclioischung. 
{Committee for Natural Historij Explorations), [i] 

1195. Deutscher polytechuischer Vereiii {German Polytechnical 
Society), [i] 

1197. K. bohmisclie Gesellschaft der Wisseuschaften {Royal Bo- 
hemian Society of Sciences), [iiij 

1199. K. bohmisches Museum {B. Bohemian Museum). |iii] 

1201. K. K. bohiniscUeCarl Ferdiuand UniyeTsitat {Imperial Royal 
Bohemian Carl Ferdinand University). 

1203. K. K. bohmisclie techuische Hochschule {Imperial Royal 
Bohemian Polytechfiicum). 

1205. K. K. deutsche Carl Ferdinand TJniversitats-Bibliothek {Im- 
perial Royal German Carl Ferdinand University Li 
brary). [iii] 

1207. K. K. deutsche technische Hochschule {Imperial Royal Ger- 
man Polytechnicum). 

1209. K. K. Universitiits Steruwarte {Imperial Royal University 
Observatory .) [i] 

1211. Mediciuische Facultat {Medical Faculty), [i] 

1213. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein "Lotos" {Society of Natu- 
ral Sciences '■'■ Lotos''"'), fi] 

1215. Pam4tky archaeologiek^ a mistopisrae. 

1217. PraBsidium des Laudes-Kultur-Rathes {President of the 
Council for Agriculture), [iii] 

1219. Redaktion der technischen Blatter {Technical Journal), [i] 

1221. Schaafziichter- Verein tiir Bohmen {Sheep-breeders' Society 
of Bohemia), [ij 

1223. Verein fiir die Geschichte der Deutscheu in Bohmen {So- 
ciety for the History of the Germans in Bohemia), [i] 

1225. Verein zur Ermunterung" des Gewerbegeistes in Bohmen 
{Society for the Encouragement of Industrial Enterprise 
in Bohemia), [i] 

Presburg {Hungary). 

1227. Handels- uud Gewerbe-Kammer {Chamber of Commerce and 

Board of Trade), [i] 
1229. Verein fiir Naturkunde {Society of Natural Sciences). [1] 

Pribram {Bohemia). 

1231. K. K. Berg- Direction {Imperial Royal Direction of Mines) 
[K. K. Karoli Boromiii Silber- und Blei-Hauptwerk]. [\\ 

Reichenberg {Bohemia). 

1233. Verein der Naturfreunde {Society of Naturalists), 
H. Mis. 15 7 



98 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Roveredo {Tyrol). 

1235. I. E. Accademia di Lettere e Scienze degli Agiati {Im- 
perial Royal Academy of Letters and Sciences), [ij 

1237. I. K. Scuola Eeale Elisabettina {Imperial Royal Elizaheih 
School), [i] 

St. Polten {Austria). 

1239. Niederosterr. Landes-Ober-Realschule {National High 
School of Lower Austria). [i| 

Salzburg {Austria). 

1241. K. K. Landwirthschafts-Gesellscbaft {Imperial Royal Agri- 
cultural Society), [ij 

1243. K. K. Studien- Bibliothek {Imperial Royal Collegiate Li- 
brary), [i] 

1245. Stadtisches Museum Carolino-Augusteum {Municipal Garo- 
lino-Augustan Museum). 

Schassburg {Austria). 

1247. Gymnasium {Gymnasium), [i] 

Trent {Tyrol). 

1249. Oesterreichischer Alpeu-Yerem {Austrian Alpine Gluh). [i] 
1251. Society degli alpinisti Tridentini {Alpine Club of Trent), [i] 
1253. R. Istituto Industiiale e Professionale {Royal Industrial 
and Professional Institute). 

Trieste {Illyria). 

1255. Ackerbau-Gesellscbaft {Agricultural Society), [i] 

1257. Astronomiscbes uud meteorologisches Observatorium der 
nautiscben Akademie {Astronomical and Meteorological 
Observatory of the Nautical Academy). 

1259. Civico Museo di Storia Katurale Ferdinando Massimiliano 
{Ferdinand Maximilian Museum of Natural History), [i] 

1261. Gartenbau-Gesellschatt {Horticultural Society). 

1263. K. K. Haudels- und nautiscbe Akademie {Imperial Royal 
Commercial and Nautical Academy), fij 

1265. " L' Ortolano," Giornale Populare d' Orticultura, " The Gar- 
dener'''' — Popular Horticultural journal), [i] 

1267. Society Adriatica di Scienze Naturali {Adriatic Society of 
Natural Sciences), [i] 
[Society Agraria. (See Ackerbau-Gesellscbaft.)] 

1271. Society par la Lettura Vo^VilsbTe) {Society for Popular Lec- 
tures), [i] 

1273. Society Scientifica Letteraria della Minerva {Minerva Sci- 
entific Literary Society), [iiij 

Wien {Austria). 

1275. Seiner Kaiserlicb-Koniglicben Majestat Privat-Bibliotbek 
{Private Library of His Majesty the Emperor), [iii] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 99 

Wien (Austria) — Continued. 

1277. Afrikanische Gesellschaft {African Society). 

1279. Allgemeiner Oesterr. Apotheker-Verein {Austrian Apothe. 
caries^ Association), [i] 

1281. Allgemeine Wiener medicinisclie Zeitung {Vienna Medical 
Journal), [i] 

1283. Alterthums-Yereiu [1 Universitats-Platz, 2] {Archceological 
Society). 

1285. Anthropologische Gesellschaft {Anthropological Society), [i] 

1287. Chemisch-metallurgisches Laboratorium [Easumoflskigasse, 
3j {Chemico- Metallurgical Laboratory). 

1289. Chemisch-physikalische Gesellschaft {Chemico- Physical So- 
ciety). 

1291. Deutsche Euudschau fiir Geographie und Statistik ( German 
Review for Geography and Statistics). 

1293. Entomologischer Verein {Entomological Society), [i] 

1295. Geologisches Institut der Universitat {Geological Institute 
of the University). 

1297. Handels- und Gewerbe Kammer {Chamber of Commerce and 
Board of Trade), [ij 

1299. Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften f Universitats- 
Platz 2] {Imperial Academy of Sciences), [iii] 

1301. K. K. Ackerbau-Ministerium [Rudolph-Platz, 13a] {Im- 
perial Royal Department of Agriculture), [i] 

1303. K. K. Akademie fiir Bildende Kiinste [Schiller-Platz 3] 
{Imperial Royal Academy of Plastic Art). 
[K. K. Artillerie- und Ingenieur-Schule {Imperial Royal Ar- 
tillery and Engineers^ School). (See K. K. Technische 
Militair-Akademie.)] 

1305. K. K. Botanisches Hof-Cabinet {Imperial Royal Botanical 
Museum). 

1307. K. K. Central- Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetis- 
mus [Hohe Warte bei Dobling, No. 38, Wien] Imperial 
Royal Central Institute for Meteorological and Terrestrial 
Magnetism), [i] 

1309. K. K. Central-Kommissionzur Erforschuug und Erhaltung 
der Kunst-und historischen Denkmalo [Schiller Platz, 
4] {Imperial Royal Central Commission for the Explora- 
tion and Preservation of Art and Historical Monuments). 

1311. K. K. Gartenbau-Gesellschaft {Imperial Royal Horticultural 
Society), [i] 

1313. K. K. General-Stabs- Schule {Imperial Royal School of Staff). 

1315. K. K. Geographische Gesellschaft (JwipmaZ7?o^«/ Geograph- 
ical Society). |iii] 

1317. K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt {Imperial Royal Geological 
Establishment), [iii] 



100 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Wien {Au.>itria) — Continued. 

1319. K. K. Gesellschaft der Aerzte {Imperial Royal Society ofPhy- 

.sicians). [i] 
1321. K. K. Handels-Ministerium {Imperial Royal Department of 

Commerce), [i] 
1323. K. K. Hochschule fiir Bodeucultur [vii. Landesgasse, 17] 

{Imperial Royal Agricultural High i^cJiool). 
1325. K. K. H.of-Bibliothek {Imperial Royal Library), [iii] 
1327. K. K. Hof- und Staats-Druckerei {Imperial Royal State 

Printing Office), [iii] 
1329. K. K. Kriegs-Ministerium {Imperial Royal War Department). 

[i] 
1331. K. K. Landes-Vertheidigungs-Miuisterium {Imperial Royal 

Department of National Defense). 

1333. K. K. Marine Ober-Kommando {Imperial Royal Naval Office) 

[i] 
1335. K. K. Militiir Geographisches Institut {Imperial Royal Mill. 

tary Geographical Institute). 
1337. K. K. Miueralogisches Hof- Cabinet {Imperial Royal Mineral- 

ogical Museum). 
1339. K. K. Ministerium des Aeussern {Imperial Royal Foreign 

Office), [i] 
1341. K. K. Ministerium fiir Cultus und Uuterricht {Imperial 

Royal Department of Church and Education), [i] 
1343. K. K. Ministerium des lunern {Imperial Royal Department 

of the Interior), [i] 
1345. K. K. Naturbistoriscbes Hof-Museum {Imperial Royal Nat- 
ural History Museum), [ii] 
1347. K. K. Ober-Gymnasium zu den 'Scbotten {Imperial Royal 

Schotten Oymnasium). [i] 
1349. K. K. Oeffentlicbe Lebranstalt fiir orientaliscbe Sprachen 

[Universitats-Platz, 1] {Imperial Royal Public Institute 

of Oriental Languages). 
1351. K. K. Oesterr. Museum fiir Kunst und Industrie {Imperial 

Royal Museutn of Art and Industry), [i] 
1353. K. K. Pbysikaliscb-astrouomisches Hof ('abinet (Jmpma? 

Royal Physical- Astronomical Museum). 
1355. K. K. Reicbs Landwirtbscbafts - Gesellschaft {Imperial 

Royal Agricultural Society), [i] 
1357. K. K. Scbottenfelder Ober-Realscb ule {Imperial Royal Schot- 

tenfeld High School), [i] 
1359. K. K. Statistiscbe Central-Kommission {Imperial Royal Sta- 
tistical Central Commission), [iii] 
1361. K, K. Stern warte {Imperial Royal Observatory), [i] 
1303. K, K. Technische Hocbsclmle {Imperial Royal Polytechnicum).. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CO-RESPONDENTS. 101 

Wien (Austria) — Continued, 

1365. K. K. Teclinische Militair- Akademie {Imperial Royal Techni- 
cal Military Academy) [formerly K. K. Artillerie- und 
Ingenieur-SchuleJ. 

13G7. K. K. Topographische Gesellschaft {Imperial Royal Topo- 
graphical Society). 

1369. K. K. Universitats-Bibliotbek {Imperial Royal University 
Library), [iii] 

1371. K. K. Zoologisch-Botanische Gesellschaft {Imperial Royal 
Zoological Botanical Society), [iij 

1373. K. K. Zoologisclies Hot-Cabinet {Imperial Royal Zoological 
Museum), [i] 

1375. Marine-Section des K. K. Keiclis Kriegs-Ministeriums (i\ravaZ 
Sectionof the Imperial Royal State, War Department), [i] 

1377. Naturwissenscbaftlicher Verein {Society of Natural Sciences). 

1379. Niederosterreicliischer Gewerbe-Verein {Poly technical So- 
ciety of Lo wer Austria). [ i] 

1381. Numismatiische Gesellschaft {'Numismatic Society). 

1383. Oesterreichiscbe Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie {Austria7^ 
Society of Meteorology), [i] 

1385. Oesterreichischer Ingenieur- und Architecten-Verein {Aus- 
trian Society of Engineers and Architects), [ij 

1387. Orientalische Akademie (OriewtoZ Acai^em?/). 

1389. Orieutalisches Museum {Oriental Museum), [i] 

1391. Ornitbologischer Verein {Ornithological Society), [i] 

1393. Phannaceudsebe Gesellschaft {Pharmaceutical Society). 

1395. Photographische Gesellschaft {Photograph leal Society), [i] 
[Polytechnische Gesellschaft {Polytechnical Society). (See 
K. K. Techuische Hochschule.)J 

1397. Privilegirte osterreich- ungarische Staats-Eisenbahn-Gesell- 
schaft [Schwarzenberg-Platz, 3] {Austro-Hungarian 
Railroad Society). 

1399. Redaktion: Xeue Freie Presse (^ew -Free Press). 

[Redaktion: Oesterr.-ungar. Fischerei-Zeitung {Austrior- 
Hungary Fishing Gazette). Defunct.] 

1401. Redaktion: Oesterr.-ungar. Sparkassen Zeitung {Austria- 
Hungary Savings Bank Gazette). 

1403. Redaktion: Der Gartenfreund {The Garden^ Friend). 

1405. Redaktion : Photographische Correspondenz {Photographic 
Correspondence) . 

1407. Redaktion: Numismatische Zeitschrift [formerly Monats- 
hefte] {Numismatic Gazette), [i] 

1409. Redaktion: Die neuesten Erfindungen im Gebiete der 
Landwirthschaft ( The latest discoveries in agriculture — 
journal). 

1411. Redaktion: Ungarische Revue {Hungarian Review), [i] 



102 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

"Wien {Austria) — Oontinued. 

1413. Redaktion: Wiener Medizinische Wochenschritt (Medical 
WeeJcly). 
[Eedaktion: Wiener Numismatische Monntshefte {Vienna 
Numismatic Monthly). See Numisinatische Zeitschrift.] 

1415. Redaktion: Wiener Obst- und Garten-Zeitung {Vienna 
Fruit and Horticultural Journal — published by the Impe- 
rial Royal Horticultural Society), [i] 

1417. Stadt-Verwaltung {City council). 

1419. Techuologisches Gewerbe-Museum {Polytechnical Museum). 

1421. Unterstiitzungs-Verein fiir entlassene Strafgefaugene, sowie 
fiir biilfs- und scbuldlose Familien von Verhafteten {So- 
ciety to assist released prisoners and their families). 

1423. Verein der Geographen an der K. K. Universitat {Society of 
Geographers of the Imperial Boyal University). |ij 

1425. Verein der K. K. autor. iind beeideten Civil-Ingenieure und 
Architekteu {Society of Civil Engineers and Architects). 

1427. Verein der Literaturfreunde {Society of the Friends of Lit- 
erature). 

1429. Verein der Montan und Eisen Industriellen {Society of Iron 
Industry). 

1431. Verein fiir Psychiatric und Forensische Psychologic {So- 
ciety of Psychiatry and Forensic Psychology). 

1433. Verein zur Verbreitung naturwisscnschaftlicher Kennt- 
nissc {Society for the diffusion of the knowledge of Nat- 
ural Sciences), [i] 

1435. Verein zur Versorguug und Bcschaftigung erwachsencr 
Blinden {Society for the Support and Employment of the 
adult Blind), [i] 

1437. Wiener Handel's- Akademie ( Vienna Commercial Academy). 

1439. Wiener Thierschutz-Verein ( Vienna Society for the Preven- 
tion of Cruelty to Animals), [i] 

1441. Wissenschaftlicher Club {Scientific Club), [i] 

1443. Wissenschaftlicher Verein der Militar-Aerzte der Wiener 
Garnison {Scientific Society of Army Physicians of the 
Vienna Garrison). 

Zara {Dalmatia). 

1445. Society Economica di Dalmazia {Economical Society of Dal- 
matia). [i] 

BELGIUM. 

An vers {Antwerp). 

1447. Academie d'Arch^ologie de Belgique {Academy of Archceol- 

ogy of Belgium), [i] 
1449. Academic Royale des Beaux Arts {Boyal Academy of Fine 

Arts). \i\ 



LtST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 103 

Anvers (Antwerp) — Continued. 

1451. Administration Communale {City Government). 

1453. Biblioth^que Publique de la ville {Public City Library). |i] 

1455. Cercle Artistique, Litt^raire et Scientifique d'Anvers {Ar- 
tistic, Literary, and Scientific Society of Anvers). [i] 

1457. Soci6t6 Beige de G^ographie {Belgium Geographical So. 
ciety). [i] 

1459. Soci6t6 Chorale Dramatique et Litt^raire— Be Vlaamsche 
Vrienden — {Choral Dramatic and Literary Society of 
Flemish friends) . 

1461. Soci6t6 de M^decine {Medical Society), fi] 

1463. Soci6t6 de Olytak {Society Olytak). 

1465. Soci6t6 de Pbarmacie {Pharmaceutical Society). \i] 

1467. !Soci6t6 Royale pour I'Eucouragement des Beaux Arts 
{Royal Society for the Encouragement of Fine Arts), [i] 

1469. Soci6t6 Royale d'Horticulture et d'Agriculture {Royal So- 
ciety of Horticulture and Agriculture), [i] 

1471. Soci6t6 Royale de Zoologie {Royal Zoological Society), [i] 

Arlon. 

1473. Biblioth^que Publique {Public Library), [i] 

Ath. 

1475. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), fi] 

Audenarde. 

1477. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [i] 

Bruges. 

1479. Administration Communale (City Government), [i] 

1481. Archives de 1' Administration Communale {Archives of the 

City Government). 
1483, Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [ij 
1485. Cercle Artistique et Litt^raire {Artistic and Literary Society). 
1487. Society d'Horticulture et de la Botanique {Horticultural 

and Botanical Society), [i] 
1489. Soci6t6 M^dico-Chirurgicale de Bruges {Medico Chirurgical 

Society of Bruges), [i] 

Bruxelles {Brussels). 

1491. Academic Royale de M6decine {Royal Academy of Medi- 
cine), [i] 

1493. Academic Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux 
Arts de Belgique {Royal Academy of Sciences, Letters, 
and Fine Arts, of Belgium), [iii] 

1495. Archives M^dicales {Medical Archives). [iJ 

1497. Association Internationale pour I'exploration et la civilisa- 
tion de I'Airique Central {International Society for the 
exploration and civilization of Central Africa). 



104 LIST OF FOREIG^ CORRESPONDENTS. 

Brnxelles (Brussels) — Continued. 

1499. Atbenee Beige {Belgian Athenceum). [i] 

1501. Bibliotheqne de la Ohambredes Eepr(5seutants {Library of 
the House of Representatives), [i] 

1503. Bibliotheqne Roy ale de Belgique {Royal Library of Bel- 
gium), [iii] 

1505. Bibliotheqne de I'UniversitiS {University Library). [\] 

1507. Cercle Arlisriqne et Litt^raire {Artistic and Literary So- 
ciety). 

1509. Commission Administrative du Mus6e Royal de I'Jndustrie 
{Administrative Commission of the Royal Museum of 
Industries), [i] 

1511. Commission Beige des ^changes luternationanx {Bel- 
gian Commission of International Exchanges). [\\ 

1513. Commission Centrale de Statistique {Central Com mission 
of Statistics), [i] 

1515. Commission de Controle de la Carte G^ologiqne de Bel 
gique {Commission for the Geological Map of Belgium). 

1517. Commission des Annales des Travaux Pnbliques {Commis- 
sion of Recnrd of Public Works), [i] 

1519. Commission Royale d'Histoire {Royal Commission of His 
tory). [i] 

1521. Gouvernement de la Belgique {Government of Belgium), [i] 

1523. Institut de Droit International {Institute of International 
Laws), [i] 

1525. Institut Cartographiqne Militaire {Military Cartographical 
Institute). 

1527. Institut G^ograj^hique de Bruxelles [20 Rue de Paroissiens] 
{Geographical Institute of Brussels), [i] 

1529. Ministere des Aflaires fitrang6res {Foreign Office). 

1531, Ministere d'Agriculture {Agricultural Department). 

1533. Ministere de l'Int6rieur {Interior Department), [i] 

1535. Mus6e Royal d'Antiquit^s, d'Armures et d'Artillerie {Royal 
Museum of Antiquities, Armor and Ordnance), [i] 

1537. Mus^e Royal d'Histoire Naturelle de Belgi(ine {Royal Nat 
ural History Museum of Belgium), [ii] 

1539. Observatoire Royal {Royal Observatory), [iii] 

1541. Society Anatomo-Pathologique {Anatomo-Pathological So- 
ciety). 

1543. Soci^te d'Anthropologie de Bruxelles {Anthropological So- 
ciety of Brussels). 

1545. Soci6t6 [Royale] Beige de Geographic {Royal Belgian Geo 

graphical Society), [i] 
1547, Society Beige de M6decine Homceopathique {Belgian Society 
of Homceopathic Medicine), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 105 

Biuxelles [BruHneh) — Continued. 

1549. Soci6te Beige de Microscopie {Belgian Microscopical Societi/). 

[i] 

1551. Soci6t6 Ceutrale d'Agriculture de Belgique {Central Agri- 
cultural Society of Belgium), fij 

1553. Soci^te Ceutrale des lustituteurs Beiges {Central Associa- 
tion of Belgian Teachers). [i| 

1655. Soci^t^ d'Histoire et d'Arch^ologie {Society of History and 
Archceology). ^ 

1557. Soci6t6 des Ellectriciens de Belgique {Society of Electricians 
of Belgium). 

1559. Soci6t6 Entomologique de Belgique {Entomological Society 
of Belgium), [ii] 

1561. Soci^t^ Malacologique de Belgique {Malacological Society 
of Belgium), [i] 

1563. Soci^t6 Eoyale de Numismatique Beige {Royal Numismatic 
Society of Belgium), [i] 

1565. Society Eoyale de Pbarmacie de Bruxelles {Royal Socie'y of 
Pharmacy of Brussels). \i] 

1567. Societe Eoyale de Botanique de Belgique {Botanical Society 
of Belgium), [i] 

1569. Soci^t^ Eoyale de Flore {Royal Society of Flora), [i] 

1571. Soci6t6 Koyale Linueenue de Bruxelles {Royal lAnnean So- 
ciety of Brussels). [ i ] 

1573. Soci^t6 Eoyale Protectrice des Animaux (Royal Society for 
the Protection of Animals), [i] 

1575. Soci6t6 Eoyale des Sciences M^dicales et Naturelles {Royal 
Society of Medical and Natural Sciences), [i] 

1677. Societe Scientifique de Bruxelles {Scientific Society of Brus- 
sels). \i] 

1579. Soci6t^ V^salienne ( Vesnlian Society). 

Charleroi. 

loSl. Biblioth^que Publiqu-e {Public Library), [i] 

1 583. Soci6t6 Pal^ontologique et Archeologique de I'Arrondisse- 

ment {Paleontological and Archceological Society of the 

District), [i] 
Courtray. 

1585. Biblioth^que Publique {Public Library), [i] 

Furnes. 

1.587. Biblioth^que Publique (Public Library), [i] 

Gand (Ghent). 

1589. Administration de la Eevue et des Archives de Droit Inter- 
national et de Legislation Compar6e (Administration 
of the Revisal and Records of International Law and 
Comparative Legislatiou). \\] 



106 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Gand (Ohent) — Continued. 

1591. Maatschappij van Necleilandscho Letterkunde (?n Ge 
schiedeues {Society of the Literature and History of Neth- 
erlands), [i] 

1593. iSoci^t^ d'Histoire Naturelle {Natural History Society), [i] 

1595. Soci^t^ de M^decine {Medical Society), [i] 

1597. Soci^t6 Roytile d'Agricultnre et de Botanique {Boyal Society 
of Agriculture and Botany), [i] 

1599. Soci^t6 Royale des Beaux Arts et de Litterature {Boyal So- 
ciety of Fine Arts and Literature), [i] 

1601. Soci6t6 Het Willems-fouds ( Willems-fund [Philological] So- 
ciety), [i] 

1603. University {University), [iii] 

Hasselt. 

J 605. Bibliotheque Communale {City Library). [1] 
1607. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [i] 



Huy. 



Liege. 



1609. Cercle des Sciences et Beaux Arts {Circle of Sciences and 
Fine Arts), [i] 

1611. Association des lug^nieurs sortis de I'ficole de Liege {Asso- 
ciation of Engineers of the School of Liege), [i] 

1613. Comity du Cercle Industriel {Committee of the Industrial 
Circle), [i] 

1615. Conseil de Salubrity Publique de la Province de Li^ge 
{Board of Public Health of the Province of Liege), [i] 

1617. Ecole des Mines {Mining Academy). 

1619. Federation des Soci^t^s d'Horiiculture de Belgique {Asso- 
ciation of the Horticultural Societies of Belgium), [i] 

1621. Institut Arcli^ologique Li^geois {Archaeological Instittite of 
Liege), [i] 

1623. Eevne Universelle des Mines, de la M^tallurgie, des Tra- 
vaux Publics, &c. {Review of Mines, Metallurgy, Pub- 
lic Works, <&c.). [i] 

1625. Soci6t6 G^ologique de Belgique {Geological Society of Bel- 
gium), [i] 

1627. Society libre d'lSmulation pour I'Encouragemeut des Lei;- 
tres et des Beaux Arts {Free Emulative Society for the 
Promotion of Letters, Sciences, and Arts), [i] 

1629. Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturelles {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 

1631. Society Li^geoise de Litterature Wallone {Lidge Society of 
Walloon Literature). [i]j 

1633. Societe de M^decine {Medical Society), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 107 

Li^e — Continued. 

1635. Soci6t6 Medico chirurgicale de Li^ge {Medico-ehirurgical 

Society of Liege). \i] 
1637. Soci6t6 Eoyale d'Horticulture {Eoyal Hortieultttral Society). 

[i] 
1639. Soci^t^ B>oy ale des Sciences [Royal Society of Sciences), [iii] 

1641. University de I'fitat {State University), [i] 

Lokeren. 

1643. Biblioth^que Publique [Public Library), [i] 

Louvain. 

[Bibliotheque Publique — does not exist.] 

1645. " Le Mus6on." Revue Internationale, rue du Vent 8 ['■'■The 

Museum f^ — International Review). 
1647. SoGiit6hitt6TMredeV\JmyeT&\t6Catho\iqne[Literary Society 

of the Catholic University). |i] 
1649. Studenteu Genootschap der Katholische Hoogeschool 

{Students^ Association of the Catholic University). 
1651. University Catholique [Catholic University), [iii] 

Melle {near Ghent). 

1653. Institution Litteraire, Scientifique, Oommerciale et Indus- 

trielle [Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and Industrial 

Institution), [i] 
1655. Museum Commercial et Industriel {Commercial and Indus- 
trial Museum), [i] 
Mons. 

1657. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [i] 

1659. Cercle Archeologique {Archceological Circle), [i] 

1661. Soci^t^ des Anciens Sieves de I'ficole des Mines du Hainaut 

{Society of the Former Pupils of the School of Mines of 

Hainaut). [ij 
1663. Soci6t6 des Bibliophiles Beiges {Society of Belgian Biblio- 

philists). \i] 
1665. Soci6t<^ des Sciences, des Arts et des Letters du Hainaut 

{Society of Sciences, Arts, and Letters of Hainaut). [iii] 
Namur. 

1667. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [i] 

1669. Cercle Artistique et Litteraire {Artistic and Literary Circle.) 

[i] 
1671. Society Agricole et Foresti^re de la Province de Namur 

{Society of Agriculture and Forestry of the Province of 

Namur). [i] 

1673. Society Archeologique [Archceological Society.) [i] 

Ostend. 

1675. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library). \i] 



108 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

St. Nioolas. 

1677. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [i] 
1679. Cercle Arch^ologique du Pays de Waas {Arch ceo lof/ival 
Circle of Waas). [ij 
Termonde. 

1681. Bibliotheque Sp^ciale Termoudoise {IMrary). [i] 
1683. Cercle Arch^ologique de la Ville et de I'AncieD Pays de 
Termonde {Archaeological Circle of the City and the 
Andetit Territory of Termonde). [i] 
Tirlemont. 

1685. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [i] 

Tongres. 

1687. Soci6t6 Scientifique et Litt^raire du Limbourg {Scientific 
and Literary Society of Limburg). [i] 
Tournay. 

1689. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [i] 

1(>91. Society Historique et Litt^raire de Tournay {Historical and 

Literary Society of Tournay). [i] 
169.5. Soci^te Royale d' Horticulture et d' Agriculture {Royal So- 
ciety of Horticulture and Agriculture). 
Verviers. 

1695. Bibliotheque Commuuale {City Library), [i] 

1697. Chambre de Commerce de Verviers {Chamber of Com- 
merce of Verviers). [iJ 

1699. Societe ArcUeologique de Verviers {Archceological Society 
of Verviers). 

1701. Society Industrielle et Corumerciale {Industrial and Com- 
mercial Society), [i] 

1 703. Soci6t6 Royale d' Agriculture et de Botanique {Royal Society 

of Agriculture and Botany), [i] 
Ypres. 

1705. Bibliotheque Publique {Public Library), [i] 

1707. Soci^t^ Historique, Arch^ologique, et Litt^raire de la Ville 

d'Ypres et de I'aucienne West Flandre {Historical^ 

Archceological^ and Literary Society of the City of Ypres 

and Old West Flanders), [i] 

DENMAKK. 

Aalborg. 

1 709. Samlinger til Jydsk Historie {Society for the History of Jut- 
land). 
Kjbbenhavn {Copenhagen). 

1711. Botaniske Foreniug (^o^crntcaZ /Socie/Jy). [i] 

[Botanisk Tidsskrift {Botanical Oazelte) — published by the 

Botanical Society.] 
[Bulletin Met^orologique du Nord {Meteorological Bulle- 
tin of the North) — published by the Danske Meteorolo- 
giske lusiirut.J 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDEN I S. 109 

Kjobenhavn {Copenhagen) — Coutinued. 

1 713. Comit6 dn Laboratoire de Carlsbeig ( Committee of the Carls- 
berg Laboratory). 

1715. Dauske Meteorologiske rnstitut {Danish Meteorological In- 
stitute), [i] 

1717. Den Danske Gradmaaliug {Banish Geodetic Commifision). 

1719. Det Store Kongelige Bibliotheket {Grand Uoyul Library). 
[iii] 

1721. Fseugsels Tidende {Prison Bevieic). 

1723. Fiskeri Tidende {Journal of Fisheries) [formally Nordisk 
Tidsskrift for Fiskeri]. [i] 

1725. Foreniugen til Fiskeries Freiume i Daiimark og Bilande 
{Society for the Improvement of the Fisheries of Denmark). 

1727. Geografiske Selskab {Geographical Society, [i] 

[Greeulauders Home — now called Department of the Com- 
merce of Greenland.] 

1729. Department of tbe Commerce of Greenland [formerly Green- 
landers Home]. 

1731. His Majesty the King of Denmark. 

[Historisk Tidsskrift — published by the Historisk Selskab.] 

1733. Historisk Selskab {Historical Society). 

1735. IslandiskeLittercere 8e\s]i.nb {Icelandic Literary Society), [i] 

1737. Kongelige Dauske Selskab for Faedrelandets Historie og 
Sprog {Royal Danish Society of the Natural History and 
Language), [i] 

1739. Kongelige Dauske Videnskabernes Selskab (A'o//r</ i>a7iM 
Society of Sciences), [iii] 

1741. Kongelige Ceheime Archivet {Royal Court of Records), [i] 

1743. Kongelige Laudhuusholdnings Selskab {Royal Agricultural 
Society), [i] 

1745. Kongelige Mediciuiske Selskab (i?o?/ai7lfef7*ca? Society), [ij 

1747. Kongelige Museum for Nordiske Oldskrifters {Royal Mu- 
seum of Northern Aiitiquities). [i] 

1749. Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab {Royal Society of 
Northern Antiquaries). [The scientific agentof the Kon- 
gelige Museum for ^Nordiske Oldskrifters]. [iii] 

1751. Kongelige ^i<it\^ti^^Qi^w.TQ2b\x {Royal Statistical Bureau), [i] 

1753. Kongelige Veterinair ogLandbo Hoiskole {Royal Veterinary 
and Agricultural High School). |i] 

1755. Mathematiske Tidsskrift {Mathematical Journal). 

Vib'l. Minister for det Indre {Minister of Interior). 

1759. Minister for Kirk og Underigs {Minister of Church and 
Public Instruction). 

1761. National Oekonomiske Tidsskrift {Journal of National Econ- 
omy). 

1763. Naturhistoriske Forenmg {Natural History Society). [i| 



110 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Kjbbenhavn {Copenhagen) — Continued. 

1765. Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift {Journal of Natural History), [i] 
[Nordisk Tidsskrift for Fiskerie. (See Fiskerie Tidende).] 
1767. Polytecbniske Lsere-Anstalt (PoZyfec^mc jSci^ooZ). [i] 

[Samfundet til den Dauske Literaturs Fremuie {Society for 
the Advancement of Danish Literature). Extinct.] 
1769. dokaart Archivet {Hydrographic Office), [i] 
1771. Tidsskrift for Philologi og Psedagogik {Philological and 
PcedagogicalJournal). [i] 
[Tidsskrift for populaere Fremstillinger af Natur Videns- 
kaberne {Journal of Popular Natural Sciences). Dis- 
continued.] 
1773. Tidsskrift for Veterinaerer ( Veterinary Journal), [i] 
1775. Universitets Astronomiske Observatoriet ( University Astro- 
nomical Observatory) — [does not publish anything], [i] 
1777. Universitets Bibliotheket (f7»ii;emfj/ iiftrary). [i] 
1779. Dniversitets Botaniske Have {Botanical Garden of the Uni- 
versity), [i] 

1781. Universitets Mineralogiske Museum {Mineralogical Museum 

of the University), [i] 

1782. Universitets Zoologiske Museum {Zoological Museum of the 

University) — [does not publish anything]. 
[VeterinsBr Selskab {Veterinary Society). Dissolved.] 
Odense. 

1 783. Danmarks Apotheker Forening {Danish Apothecaries' Asso- 

ciation), [i] 
1785. Samlinger til Fyens Historie {Society for the History of Fu- 
nen). 

[Association Fran§aise pour I'Avancement des Sciences 

{French Association for the Advancement of Sciences). 

(See Paris).] 
[Association Scientifique de France {Scientific Association 

of France). In La Sorbonne.] [ij 
[Oongrfes Arch^ologique de France {Archaeological Congress 

of France). In Tours.] [i] 

[Institut des Provinces de France {Institute of the Provinces 

of France). Dissolved.] 
Abbeville. 

1787. Soci6t6 d' Emulation {Emulative Society). [iJ 

1789. Soci6t6 Linn^enne du Nord de la France {Linnean Society 
of the North of France). 
Agen. 

1791. Biblioth^que Communale {Public Library). 

1793. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture, Sciences, et Arts d'Ageii {Agen So- 
ciety of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts), [ij 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. Ill 

Aix [Bouches du- Rhone). 

1795. Acad^mie des Sciences, Agriculture, Arts, et Belles-Lettres 
{Academy of Sciences, Agriculture, Arts, and Belles-Let- 
tres). [i] 

1797. Revue Sextienue [Society des Geus de Lettres] {'■'■Review 
Sextienne''^ ; — of the Society of Literary Gentlemen). 

1799. Soci6t6 Historiqne de Provence {Historical Society of Pro- 
vence), [ij 
Alais. 

1801. Soci6t6 Scientifique et Litt^raire {Scientific and Literary 
Society), [i] 

Albi. 

3803. Soci6t6 des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts du Tsbvu {Soci- 
ety of Sciences, Letters, and Arts, of Tarn). 

Alencon. 

1805. Soci6t6 Historiqne et Arch^ologique {Historical and Archce- 
ological Society). 

Allier. 

1807. Soci^t^ des Sciences Medicales de Gannat {Society of Medi- 
cal Sciences of Gannat). 

Amiens. 

1809. Academic des Sciences, Lettres, et Arts d'Amiens {Academy 
of Sciences, Letters, and Arts), [i] 

1811. Biblioth^que Communale de la Ville d'Amiens {Public City 
Library), [i] 
[Conference Litt6raire et Scientifique de Picardie {Literary 
and Scientific Conference of Picardy). Ceased to 
exist.] 

1813. Soci^t^ des Antiquaires de Picardie {Society of Antiqua- 
rians of Picardy). [i] 

1815. Soci6t6 d' Horticulture de Picardie {Horticultural Soci- 
ety of Picardy). [i] 

1817. Soci6t6 Industrielle d'Amiens {Industrial Society of Amiens). 

[i] 
1819. Soci^t^ Linn^enne du Nord de la France {Linnean Society 

of the North of France), [i] 
Angers. 

1821. Acad^mie des Sciences et Belles-Lettres {Academy of Sci- 
ences and Belles-Lettres) [formerly Soci6t6 Acad^mique 
de Maine-et-Loire]. [iii] 
1823. Comit6 Historiqne et Artistique de I'Ouest {Historical and 

Artistic Comm,ittee of the West), [i] 
1825. Soci6t6 Industrielle et Agricole {Industrial and Agricultural 
Society), [i] 



112 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Angers — Continued. 

1S27. Soci6t6 d'fitudes Scientitiques {Society of Scientific Stud- 
ies), [i] 

1829. !Soci6t6 Linueenne de Maine-et-Loire {Linnean Society <>/ 
Maine and Loire), [i] 

1831. ISociet^ d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts {Society of Agricul- 
ture, Sciences, and Arts), [i] 

Angouleme. 

1833. Sociote d'Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Commerce dc la 
C b arente ( Charente Society of Agriculture, Sciences, A rts, 
and Commerce), [i] 
1835. rtoci^te Arch^ologique et Historique de la Charente {Arclue- 
ological and Historical Society of Charente). [i] 

Annecy. 

1837. Sociote Florimoutaue {Florimontane Society), [i] 
1839. Revue Savoisienne {Savoy Review). 

Apt. 

1841. Sociote Litt6raire, Scientifique et Artistique d'Apt {Liter- 
ary, Scientific, and Artistic Society of Art), [i] 

Argentou-sur-Creuse [Ltdre). 

1843. Sociote Pharmaceutique du Departemeut de I'Indre {Phar- 
maceutical Society of the Department of Lndre). [i] 

Aries {Bouches-du- Rhone). 

1845. Commission Arph^ologique {Archceological Commission), [i] 

Arras. 

1847. Academic [des Sciences, Lettres et Arts] d'Arrras {Arras 
Academy of Sciences, Letters, and Arts), [i] 

1849. Station d'Agriculture {Agricultural Station). 

1851. Commission des Monuments Historiques et des Antiquites 
du D6partement de PasdeCalais {Commission of His- 
torical Monuments and Antiquities of the Department of 
Pas-de- Calais), [i] 

1853. ficole des Ing^nieurs {Engineer School). 

Ancli. 

1855. Soci6t6 rran9aise de Botanique {French Botanical Society). 
1857. Soci6t6 Historique de Gascogne {Historical 'Society of Gas- 
cony), [i] 

Aurillac. 

1859. Society Acad^mique ( Academic Society), [i] 

Antnn {Saone-et-Loire). 

1861. Sociote Eduenne fdes Lettres, Sciences et Arts] {Edvenne 
Society; — of Letters, Sciences, and Arts), [i] 



1 



LIST OF FOREIGN COKRH.Sl'ONDENTS. 1 13 

Auxerre. 

1863. Societe des Scieuces Historiques et Is'aturelleif de I'Youne 

[Society of Historical and NaUiral Sciences, of Yonne). \\] 

1865. Society Medicale de 1' Yonne {Medical Society of Yonne). [ij 

1867. Soci6t^ pour la Propagation de 1' Instruction Populaire 

{Society for the Promotion of Public Instrnction). 

Avallon. 

1869. Soci6t6 d'Eltudes d'Avallon {Arallon Society of Studies), [i] 

Avesnes. 

1871. Soci6t6 Arch^ologique de FAriondissement d'Avesues {Ar- 
chaeological Society of the District of Avesnes). [iJ 

Avignon. 

1873. Mus6e Culvet de la Ville {Culvet City Museum), [i] 
1875. Soci6t6 Arch^ologique {Archaeological Society), [i] 

Avranches {Manclie). 

1877. Soci6t6 d'Arch^ologie, Litt^rature, Sciences et Arts d'A- 
vranches {Society of Archaeology, Literature, Sciences, 
and Arts, of Avranches). [i] 

Bagneres de-Bigorre [Hautes Pyrenees). 

1879. Observatoire du Pic du Midi {Observatory of Pic du Midi). 

[i] 
1881. Soci6t6 liamond {Bamond Society), [i] 

Bar-le-Luc. 

1883. Soci6t^ des Lettres, Sciences et Arts [de Bar-le-Duc] 
( Society of Letters, Sciences, and Arts, of Bar- le-Buc) . fi] 
1885. Soci6t6 du Mus^e {Society of the Museum) fi] 

Bastia. 

1887. Soci6t6 des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de la Corse 
{Society of Historical and Natural Sciences, of the Corse). 

Bayeux {Calvados). 

1889. Society d'AgriculLure, Sciences, Ar;s et Belles-Lettres 
{Society of Agriculture, Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Lettres). 

Bay onne ( Basses-Pyrenees ) . 

1 891. Soci6t6 des Sciences e! Arts {Society of Sciences and Arts), [i ] 

Besixme {Cote-d^Or). 

1893. Society d'Arch^ologie, d'Histoire et de Litteratiue de 
I'Arrondissement de Bi^tinwe {Society of Archaeology, His- 
tory, and Literature of the District of Beaune). [i] 
Beauvais. 

1895. L'Atbeiiee du Bi^axiv ama {Athennnni of Bcour<ii.s}. 
H. Mis. IS g 



114 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Beauvais — Coutiuued. 

1897. (3omit6 Arch^ologique, ou Commissioii Aich^ologique du 

Diccese do Beauvais {Archceological Committee of the 

Diocese of Beauvais). 
1899. Soci6t6 Acad6mique d'Arch^ologie, Sciences et Arts, du 

D^partemenc de I'Oise {Academic Society of Archceology, 

Sciences, and Arts of the Department of Oise). [i] 
J 901. Soci6t6 d'Horticulture et de Botaiiiqne de Beauvais {Sor- 

ticultural and Botanical Society of Beauvais). 
1903. Soci6t6 M^dicale et Pharmaceutique des Arrondisseinents 

de Beauvais etde Clermont {Medical and Pharmaceutical 

Society of the Districts of BeavtHiis and Clermont). 

BelfoTt. 

1905. Soci^t6Beltbrtained'!6mulation {Belfort Competitive Society). 

[i] 
Bergues {liford). 

1907. Socie"4 de I'Histoire et des Bc.uix Arts de la Flandre 
mpt'ifime {Society of the Histori/ and Fine Arts of mari- 
tim-: Glanders). |i] 
Besan9on. 

1909. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts {Academy 

of Sciences, Belles-Lettres, and Arts), [i] 
1911. Soci6te d'Emulation du Douhs {Competitive Society of Douhs). 

[i] 
1913. Society des Amis des Beaux Arts {Society of Friends of 

Fine Arts). 

Beziers {Herault). 

1915. Soci6te Arch^ologique, Scientifique et Litteraire de B^^^ziers 
{Archwological, Scientific, and Literary Society of Beziers). 

1917. Soci^t6 d']Studes des Sciences Naturelles de Beziers {Beziers 

Society for the Study of Natural Sciences), [i] 
Blois. 

1919. Societe des Sciences et Lettres de Loir-et-Cher {Society of 

Sciences and Letters, of Loir-et- Cher), [ij 

Bordeaux. 

1921. Academie Etliuographique de la Gironde {Ethnographic 

Academy of Gironde). [i] 
1923. Academic des Belles-Lettres, Sciences et Arts {Academy 

of Belles-Lettres, Sciences,, and Arts), [iii] 
[Association Bastiat. (See Soci^t6 d'Economie Politique.)] 
1925. Bibliotheque de la Ville {City Library), [i] 
1927. Ohambre de Commerce {Chamber of Commerce), [i] 
1029. Commission des Monuments ct Documents Historiques 

{Commiimion of Historical Monuments and Documents), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN COIiKE8PONDENTS. 115 

Bordeaux — ( ' on tinned. 

19;51. Conscil d'Hygiene Publique et de Salubrity du D^parte- 
luent de la Gironde [PuhUc Health Council of the De- 
partment of Gironde). [i] 

19;^3. Faculty des Sciences {Faculty of Sciences). 

[Institut Coufncius de France. Discontinued.] 

1935. Journal de M^decine de Bordeaux {Medical Journal of Bor 
deaux). [i] 

1937. Museum d'Histoire Naturelle {Natural History Museum), [i] 

1939. Museum Pr^historique de Bordeaux {Prehistoric Museum of 
Bordeaux), [i] 

1941. Observatoire {Observatory), [i] 

1943. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture de la Gironde {Agricultural Society), [i] 

1945. Soci^t^ Archeologique de la Gironde {Arcluvological So- 
ciety of the Gironde). [i] 

1947. Society des Archives Historiques du D^parteinent de la 
Gironde {Society of Historical Archives of the Depart- 
ment of the Ginmde). [ij v;^ 

1949. Soci^te Bibliogrujibique ; Comite de B ;\fieaux {Bibliographi- 
cal Society; Bordeaux Committee). 

1951. Societe des Bib\io\^hi\es de (jrnjenue {Society of Bibliophil- 
ists of Guyenne). [i] 

1953. Society d'Econoniie Politique {Society of Political Economy) 
[Association Bastiat]. 

1955. Society de Geographic Commerciale {Society of Commercial 
Geography), [i] 

1957. Societe d'Horticulture de la Gironde {Horticultural So- 
ciety of the Gironde). [i] 

1959. Society Huniauitaire et Scientiflque du Sud-Ouest de la 
France {Humanitarian and Scientific Society of the 
Southwest of France), [i] 

3961. Societ*?- Linn^enne de Bordeaux {lAnnean Society of Bor- 
deaux), [iii] 

1963. Society de Medecine de Bordeaux {Medical Society of Bor- 
deaux), [i] 

1965. iSociete de Medecine et de Chirurgie de Bordeaux {Medical 
and Surgical Society of Bordeaux), [i] 

1967. Societe M^dico-Chirurgicale des Hopitaux et Hospices de 
Bordeaux {Medico- Surgical Society of Hospitals and 
Almshouses of Bordeaux), [i] 

1969. Society de Pharmacie {Pharmaceutical Society), [i] 

1971. Sociei6 Philomathique de Bordeaux {Philomathic Society of 
Bordeaux). 

1973. Soci6t6 des Sciences Physiques et Ils^aturelles {Society of 
physical and Natural Sciences), [i] 



1 1 6 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Boulogne-sur-Mer (Pas-de-Calais). 

1975. Soci6t6 Academiqne {Academic Society), [ij 

1977. Soci6t6 d' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de Boulogne-sur- 
Mer {Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts, of 
Boulogne-sur-Mer). [i] 
Boorg. 

1979. Soci^t^ d'fimulation, Agriculture, Sciences, Lettres et Arts 
de I'Ain {Competitive Society of Agriculture, Sciences, 
Letters, and Arts, of Ain). [i] 

1981. Soci4t6 de Geographie de I'Ain ( Geographical Society of Ain). 

1983. Soci6t4 Litt6ralre, Historique et Arch^ologique du D^- 
partement de I'Ain {Literary, Historical, and Archceo- 
logical Society of the Department of Ain). [i] 
Bonrges. 

1985. Soci6t^ Historique, Litt^raire, Artistique et Scientifique 
du D^partement du Cher {Historical, Literary, Artistic^ 
and Scientific Society of the Department of Ain) [formerly 
Commission Historique du Cher], [i] 

1987. Soci^t^ d'Agriculture du D^partement de Cher {Agricultural 
Society of the Department of Cher). [iJ 

1989. Soci6t4 des Antiquaires du Centre {Central Society of Anti. 
quartans) . 

Brest {Finistere). 

1991. Biblioth^que de la Marine Nationale {Library of the N^a- 

tional Havy). [i] 
1993. Observatoire {Observatory). 

1995. Society Acad^mique de Brest {Academic Society of Brest), [i] 
1997. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture de Brest {Agricultural Society of 

Brest), [ij 



Briey. 



Caen. 



[Soci^t^ Arch^ologique et Historique {Archwological and 
Historical Society). Has been transferred to Metz, 
Alsace-Lorraine, Germany.] 

1999. Acad^mie Nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres 
{National Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Let- 
tres). [iii] 

2001. Association d'Agriculture et d' Horticulture des Instituts 
de la Zone Campandri-Valcongrain {Agricultural and 
Horticultural Association of the Institutes of the Cam. 
pandri- Valcongrain). [iJ 

2003. Association Normaude pour les Progr^s de I'Agriculture, 
de I'Industrie et de« Arts {Normandy Association for the 
Advancement of Agriculture, Itidustry, and Arts). [iJ 

U005. Musee d'Histoire i^aturelle {Natural History Mustnim). [i] 



LIST OF FOl.'KKJN (OH RESPONDENTS. 117 

Caen — Contiuiied. 

2007. Societe Centrale d'Horticultuiv (Centra/ Horticultvral So 
ciety). 

2009. Soci^te d' Agriculture et de Couiuierce de Caen {Society of 
Agriculture and Commerce of Caen), fij 

2011. Soci6t6 des Antiquaires de Norinandie [Society of Antiqna 
ries of Normandy) . [ i i i J 

2013. Society des Beaux Arts {Society of Fine Arts), [ij 

[Societe Fraugaise d'Arcli6ologie pour la Couservatiou et 
la Descriptiou des Monuments Bistoriques {French So- 
ciety of Arc hceology for the Preservation and Description 
of Historical Monuments). (Wee Tours).] 

2015. Society Linueenue de Norniaudie {Linnean Society of Nor- 
mandy), [iii] 

2017. Soci^t6 de Medecine de Caen et du Calvados {Medical So- 
ciety of Caen and Calvados), [i] 

2019. Societe Philomathiqne du ('alvados { Philomathic Society of 
Calvados). 

Cahors. 

2021. Soci4t6 des Etudes Litteraires, iScieutifiques et Artistiques 

du Lot {Society of Literary, Scientific, and Artistic 

Studies of Lot). [iJ 

Cambrai {Nord). 

2023. Society d'fimulation {Comjyetitive Society), [i] 

Cannes. 

[Society des Sciences Natnrelles, des Lettres et des Beaux 
Arts de Cannes et de I'Arrondissement de Grasse {So- 
ciety of Natural Sciences, Letters, and Fine Arts of 
Cannes and the District of Orasse). Dissolved.] 

Carcassonne. 

2025. Societe des Arts et Scieuces {Society of Arts and Sciences), fij 

Castres. 

2027. Commission des Antiquit6s de la Ville de Castres et du D6- 
partement du Taru {ArUiquarian Commission of Castres 
and of the Department of Tarn), [i] 
[Soci6t<§ scientifique et litteraire de Castres r(5unie i\ la 
Commission des Antiqnites de la Ville de Castres {Sci- 
entific and Literary Society of Castres, united with the 
Antiquarian Commission of the city of Castres).] 

Chalons-sur-Marne. 

2029. Soci^t6 d'Agriculture, Conimerce, Sciences et Arts du De- 
partement de la Marne {Society <f Agriculture, Com- 
merce, SdenceK, and Arts of Marne). [iii] 



118 LI8T OF F0RP:IGN COREE8PONDENTS. 

Chalon-sur-Saone. 

["EgypLiologie." Discontinued.] 
2031. Soci6t6 d'Histoire et d'Arcbeologie de (Jlialon {Archwo- 

logical and Historical Society of Chalon). [i] 
2033. Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturelles de Saone-et-Loire {Society 
of Natural Sciences of Saone-et-Loire). [ij 

Chambery. 

2035. Acad^mie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts de Savoie {Academy 
of Sciences^ Letters., and Arts of Savoy). [iJ 

2037. Soci6t6 d'Histoire Naturelle de Savoie {Natural History So- 
ciety of Savoy). 

2039. Societe iM^dicale {Medical Society), [i] 

2041. Soci6te Savoisieune d'Histoire et d'Arch^oIogie {Society of 
History and Archwology of Savoy), [i] 

Chartres. 

2043. Soci6t6 Archeologique d'Eure-et-Loir {Archceological Society 

of 3ure-and- Loire). [iJ 
2045. Soci6t6 d'Horticulture et de Viticulture d'Eure-et-Loir 

{Society of Horticulture and Vine- culture, of Eure-et- 

Loir). \\] 

Chateaudun. 

2047, Soci6t6 Dnnoise [Arcli^ologie, Histoire, Sciences et Arts] 
{Bunoise Society), [i] 

Chateauroux. 

2049. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture de I'Indre {Agricultural Society of 
Indre). [i] 

Chateau-Thierry {Aisne). 

2051. Society Historique et Arch^ologique de Chateau-Thierry 
{Historical and Archceological Society of Chateau- Thier- 
ry), [ij. 

Chauny {Aisne). 

2053. Societe de Pomologie et <l'Arboriculture de Chauny {Porno 

logical and A^'horicultural Society of Chauny). [i] 
2055. Society R6gionale d'Horticulture dont Chauny est le Centre 

{Horticultural Society of the Chauny Region). [iJ 

Cherbourg {Manche). 

2057. Society Academique de Cherbourg {Academic Society of 

Cherbourg), [iii] 
2059. Soci6t6 Nationale des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg 
{National Society of Natural Sciences of Cherhourg). [iii] 
Clamecy. 

20G1. Soci6t6 Scientifique et Artistique {Scientific and Artistic 
Society), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORKESPOA'UENTS. 119 

Clermont-Ferrand. 

20G3. Acad^mie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts {Academy 
of Sciences J BeUcs-LeUreii, and Arts), [i] 

2065. Soci6te des Amis des Arts de I'Auyergiie [Auvergne So- 
ciety of the Friends of Arts), [ij 

2007. University de France — Faculty des Lettves {University of 
France — Faculty of Letters). 

Clermont {Oise). 

L'()(>9. Society d' Agriculture de Clermont- Oise {Agricultural So- 
ciety of Clermont), [i] 
2071. Soci6t6 d'Horticulture de Clermont-Oise {Horticultural 
Society of Clermont), [ij 
[Soci6t6 des Amis des Arts de F Auvergne {Auvergne So- 
ciety of the Friends of Arts). (See Clermont-Ferrand.)] 

Compiegne {Oise). 

[Mus^e Kohmer {Kohmer Museum). Transferred to the Mu- 
seum Trocadero, Paris.] 
2073. Soci6t6 Historique de Compiegne {Historical Society of 
Compiegne). [i] 

Coulommiers {Seine-et-Marne). 

2()7o. Soci^te d'Horticulture de I'Arrondissement de Coulommiers 
{Horticultural Society of the District of Coulommiers). [i ] 

Coutances {Manche). 

2077. Soci6t6 Acad^mique du Coteutin {Academic Society of Co- 
tentin). [i] 

Dax. {Landes). 

2079. Soci^te de Borda {Borda Society). [iJ 

Dijon. 

2081. Academic des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres de Dijon 
{Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Letters of Dijon), 
[in] 
2083. Bibliotheque de I'Cniversite {University Library). 
2085. Commission des Antiquit^s [Arcb6ologique] de la Cote-d'Or 

{Archaeological Commission of Cote-d^Or). [ij 
2087. Journal d'Agriculture de la Cote-d'Or {Agricultural Jour- 
nal of Cote dH)r). [i] 
2089. Society d'Agriculture et d'Industrie Agricole du D^parte- 
ment de la C6te-('i'0r {Society of Agriculture and Farm- 
■ inglndustryofCotefVOr). [i] 
2091. Soci6t6 d'Horticulture de la C6te-(V0r {Horticultural Society 
of Cote-d'Or). [i] 



120 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Douai. {JSFord). 

2093. Association Vetcriuaire des D^partemerits clu Nord et du 

Pas-de-Calais ( Veterinary Association of the Departments 

of the North and Pas-de-Calais). [ij 
2095. Bibliotlieque IMunicipale {Municipal Library). 
2097. Musee d'Histoire Katnrelle [Natural History Museum), [i] 
2099. Soci6t6 d'Agriciilture, des Sciences et Arts, Central du D^v 

partement du Nord [Central Society of Agriculture, 

Sciences, and, Arts of the Department of the North), [iiij 
2101. Union G^ograpliique du Nord de la France [Geographical 

Union of the North of France), fij 

Draguignan. 

2103. Socidt6 d'Agriculture, de Commerce et de I'ludustrie <Iu 1)6- 
partement du Var [Society of Agriculture, Commerce and 
Industry of the Department of Var). [i] 

210.5. Societe des fitudes Scientifiques et Arcli^ologiques [Society 

of Scitntific and Archceological Studies), [i] 
Dunkerque. [Nord). 

2107. Comite Flammand de France [Flemish Committee of France). 
2109. Society Dunkerquoise pour I'Encouragement des Sciences, 
des Lettres et des Arts [Dunkirk Society for the Promo- 
tion of Sciences, Letters, and Arts), [i] 
Ecully. 

2111. Institut d'Agriculture du Rhone [Agricultural Institute o/ 
the Rhone). 

Elbeuf ( Seine- Infer ie ure). 

21 13. Soci6.t6 d'Euseigueuient Mutuel des Sciences Naturelles 

[Society for Mutual Instruction in Natural Sciences). 
2115. t^oc,\^t6:Jwi\\xf^Xx\^We(V¥Ah(t\\f [Industrial Society of Elbeuf ). [ij 

Epinal. 

2117. Society d'finmlation du D(6partement des Vosges [Competi- 
tive Society of the Department of Vosges). ]i] 
2119. Societe de Geographic de I'Est [Geographical Society of the 
Fast). 
Evreux. 

2121. Society Libre d'Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles- 
Lettres du Departement de I'Eure [Free Society of Agri- 
culture, Sciences, Arts, and Belles- Lettres of Eure). \\] 
Flers. 

2123. Societe Industrielle de I'Orne [Industrial Society of Orne). 
Fontenay le-Comte ( Vendee). 

2125. Soci<5te d'Horticulture [Horticultural Society). \\\ 

Gannat [Allier). 

2127. Societe des Sciences Medicaies de Gannat [Society of Medi- 
cal Scieiices of Gannat). fi] 



LIST OF FOREIGN (( >RHF,Sl»()NI>KN I S. 121 

Grenoble. 

2129. Acad6mie Delpliinalc {Ddphinal Academy), [i] 

2131. Soci<5t<5 d'Ajiiicnlture et d'Horticultiiie de Greuoble {Agri- 
cultural and ITorticultural iSocieti/ of Grenoble). fi| 

2133. Society de Medeciiie el de Pharmacic de I'ls^re (Medical 
and Pharmaceutical Society of Isere). \'\\ 

2135. Soci(St6 de Statist iqne de PIsere {Society of Statistics of 
Isere). [i] 
Gueret. 

2137. Societe des Sciences Natnielles et Arch^ologiqnes de la 

Creiise (Society of Natural and Archwological Sciences 

of Creuse). [i] 
La Fleche. 

2139. Societe des Scieuces et Arts de la Fl^clie (Society of Sciences 

and Arts of La Fleclte). 

Lanjjres (Raute-Marne). 

2141. Societe Historique et Arcli6ologiqiie (Historical and Archw- 
ological Society), [i] 
Laon. 

2143. Society Acad6mique de Laon (Academic Society of Laon). [ij 

the Vendee), [i] 

La Rochelle. 

2145. Acad6mie des Belles-Lettres, Sciences et Arts de La Ro- 
chelle (Acadeyny of Belles-Letters^ Sciences, and Arts 
of La Eochelle). 

2147. Soci6te des Amis des Arts (Society of the Friends of Arts). 

La Roche-sur-Yon. 

2149. Society d'finiulation de la Vendue (Competitive Society of 

Laval. 

2150. Commission Historiqne et Arch^ologique de la Mayenne 

(Historical and Archwological Commission of Mayenne). 

[i] 

2151. Musee d'Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum). 

2153. Soci6t6 de I'ludustrie, Manufacture, Agriculture, Sciences 
et Arts de la Mayenne (Mayenne Society of Industries, 
Manufactures, Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts), [i] 

Le Havre (Seinc-Inferieure). 

2155. Societe de Geograpbie Commerciale du Havre (Havre S<h 

cicty of Commercial Geography). 
2157. Society Geologique de Xoruiandie (Geological Society of 

Normandy), [i] 
2159. Soci6t6 xsationale Havraise des l^tudes Diverses (Havre 

National Society of Various Studies). [iJ 
2161. Soci6t6 de Pharmacie du Havre {Pharmaceutical Society of 

Havre), [i] 



122 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Le Havre {Seine- InfSrieure) — Contiuiictl. 

2163. Soci6t6 des Sciences, Arts, Agricultiue, et Horticulture, 
<lu Havre {Havre Society of Sciences, Arts, Agriculture, 

and Horticultnre). [\] 
Le Mans. 

2165. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de la SartUe 
{Socie^ of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts of Sarthe). 

[iii] 
2167. Society Historique et Arclieologique du Maine {Historical 

and ArcJur.ological Society of Maine), [i] 
2169. Society d'Horticulture de la Sarthe {Horticultural Society 

of Sarthe). 
2171. Soci6t6 de Medecine du D^partement de la Sarthe {Medical 

Society of the Department of Sarthe). [i] 

2173. Societe du Materiel Agricole de la Sarthe {Agricultural 

Society of Sarthe). 
Le Puy. 

2175. Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences Arts, et Commerce {Society 
of Agriculture, Sciences, Arts, and Commerce), [i] 
Les Vans {Ardcche). 

2177. Soci6te Historique et Arch^ologique du Canton des Vans 
{Historical and Archceo logical Society of the Canton of 

Vans), [i] 
Lille. 

2179. Commission Historique du Departemeut du Nord {Histori- 
cal Commission of the Department of the North), [ij 

2181. Comity Agricole du Xord {Agricultural Committee of Ike 
North). 

2183. Couseil Central d'Hygi^ue et de Salubrity {Central Council 
of Hygiene and Public Health). 

2185. Faculte de M(5decine et de Pharmacie {Faculty of Medicine 
and Pharmacy). 

2187. lustitut Zoologique {Zoological Institute). 

2189. Musee d'Histoire Naturelle {Museum of Natural History). 

[i] 
2191. Societe des Architectes du Departemeut du Nord {Society 

of Architects of the Department of the North). 

2193. Societe Centrale de Medecine du Nord do la France {Cen- 
tral Medical Society of the North of France), [i] 

2195. Societe de (xeographie {Geographical Society). 

2197. Societe G6ologique du Nord {Geological Society of the North). 

2129. Society des Sciences, de I'Agriculture et dea Arts {Society 

of Sciences, Agriculture, and Arts), [iii] 
Limoges. 

2201. Commission M6t6orologique de la Haute- Vienne {Meteoro- 
logical Commission of Haute- Yienne). [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 123 

Limoges — Continued. 

2203. Soci(3t6 Arcbeologique et Historique du Limousin {Archceo- 

logical and Historical Society of Limomin). [i] 
2205. Soci^te de M^decine et de Pharinacie de la Haute-Vienne 
{Medical and Pharmaceutical Society of Haute-Vienne). 

2207. Soci^t6 d'Agiieulture des Sciences et Arts de la Uaute- 
Vienne {Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts of 
Haute-Vienne). [i] 

Lisieux {Calvados). 

2209. Soci6te d'Agricultuie du ('entre de la Normandie {Agri- 
cultural Society of Central Normandy), [i] 

2211. Society d'Hoiticultuie et de Botanique du Centre de la 
Nornumdie {llorticiiUtnal and Botanical Society of Cen- 
tral Normandy), [ij 

Lons-le Saulnier. 

2213. Soci6t6 d'fimulation dii Jnia {Competitive Society of the Jura). 
2215. Societe Poniologiqne <!e France {Pomological Society of 
France), [i] 

Lorient {Morbihan). 

2217. Observatoire {Observatory). 

2219. Soci6t^ de G^ograpbie Bretonne {Bretonne Geographical 
Society). 



Lyon. 



2221. Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon) 
{Lyons Academy of Sciences. BellesLetters, and Arts), [iii] 

2223. Association Lyonnaise des Amis des Sciences Naturelles 
iLyons Association oftheFriends of Natural Sciences), [i] 

2225. Association pour la Propagation de la Foi {Association for 
the Propagation of the Faith). 

2227. Commission Hydrometrique de Lyon {Hydrometric Com- 
mission of Lyons ). [ i ] 

2229. Commission iNIeteorologiqne du iJhoue {Meteorological Com- 
mission of the Rhone). [iJ 

2231. Musee Guimet {Guimct Museum). [iJ 

2233. Musee d'llistoire Naturelle de Lyon {Natural History 
Museum of Lynns), [ij 

2235. Observatoire {Observatory), [i] 

2237. Societe Academiqne d'Aicliitecture de Lyon {Lyons Acad- 
emic Society of Architecture), [i] 

223!). Societe d'xVgricultnrc, Histoire Naturelle et Arts Utiles de 
Lyon {Lyons Society of Agriculture, Natural History, 
and Useful Ar Is). [iii| 

2241. Soci6t6 d'Antl)roi)ologie de Lyon {Anthropological Society 
of Lyons.) 



124 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Lyon — Continued. 

2243. Soci^te Botanique de Lyon {Botanical Society o/Lj/ons). [ij 

224"). Societe d'l^couoniie VoWtxqno [Society of Political Economy). 

2247. Societ6 d'Educatiou de Lyon (Edncational Society of Lyons). 

2240. !Soci6te d'Enseiguenient Professiouel du Ehone [Society of 
Mechanical Drawing of the Rhone), [i] 

2251. Society des Amis des Arts {Society of the Friends of Arts). 

2253. Society d'l^tudes Scientifiqaes [Society of Scientific 
Studies). [iJ 

2255, Soci(5t6 (le G^ojjrapbie [Geographical Society), [i] 

2257. Soci6t6 d'Horticultnre Pratique du Rhone [Society of Prac- 
tical Horiiculturc of the Rhone). 

2259. Soci6te Liuueeunede Lyon (i/m«eaw Society of Lyons), [iii] 

226L Soci^te Litteraire, Historique et Arch^ologique [Literary., 
Historical., and Archaological Society), [i] 

2263. Soci6te Rationale de Medeciue de Lyon [National Medical 
Society of Lyons). [\] 

2265. Society Poniologique de France [Pomological Society of 

France), [ij 
2267. Soci6t6 des Sciences Industrielles [Society of Industrial 

Sciences), fi] 
2269. Soci^te des ydences Medicales de Lyon [Lyons Society of 

Medical Sciences), [i] 
2271. Universite ( University). 

Macon. 

2273. Academie des Sciences, Arts, Belles-Lettres et G^ographie 
[Academy of Sciences., Arts, Belles-Lettres, and Geo- 
graphy) [formerly Acad(?mie de Macon — Society des 
Arts, Belle.^-Lettres et Agriculture], [i] 

Magny-en-Vexin ( Seine-et- Oise) . 

2275. So(^i6te d'Agriculture et d'Horticulture [Agricultural and 
Horticu Itural Society ) . 

Maleux. (Se<' Morlaix.) 

Marseilles. 

2277. Academie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts {Academ,y of Sci- 
ences, Letters, and Arts), [iii] 
2279. Oomit^ Medical des Bouches-du-Rhone [Medical Committee 
of Bouches-du Rhone), [i] 

2281. ^cole des Beaux Arts et Bibliotli^que de la Ville [School of 

Fine Arts, and City Library), [i] 

2282. ficole de Pleiu Exercice de J\I6decine et Pliarmacie [School 

of the Whole Practice of Medicine and Pharmacy). 

2283. Museum d'Histoire Naturelle [NatnraJ History Museum). 
2285. Observatoire [Observatory), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS 125 

Marseilles — Coutiuued. 

2287. Soci^te d'Agrioultuie du D6parteuienl des Boucbeis-du- 
Rhone {Agricultural /Society of the Department of Bouche- 
du- Rhone), [i] 

2289. Societe des Amis des Arts {Society of the Friends of Arts). 
[Soci6t6 d'lSniulatiou de la Provence {Competitive Society of 

Provence). Discontinued.] 
[Soci6t6 d'Etude yh's Sci^-nces Naturelles {Society for the 
Study of Natural Sciences) — now called Soci<§t6 d'Horti- 
culture et de Botanique.] . 

2291. Soci6t6 de Gdogvuphie {Geographical Society), [i] 

2293. Society d'Horticnlture et de Botauique {Society of Horti- 
culture and Botany) [formerly Society d'liltude des 
Sciences Natnrelles]. [i] 

2295. Societe de Medeciue {Medical Society), [i] 

2297. Societe MedicoChirurgicale des Hopitaux {Medico- Ghirnr- 
gical Society of the Hospitals), [i] 

2299. Societe Scientitique ludustrielle {Society of Industrial Sci- 
ences), [i] 

2301. Societe de Statistique de Marseille {Statistical Society of 

Marseilles), [i] 
2303. Societe pour la Vulgarisation des Plantes Exotiques {Society 

for the Domestication of Exotic Plants). 
2305. Union des Arts {Art Union), [i] 

Mayenne. 

2307. Societe d' Agriculture de PArrondissement de Mayenne 
{Agricultural Society of the District of Mayenne). [iiij 

2309. Societe d'Arclieologie, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres de- 
la Mayenne {Mayenne Society of Archaeology, Sciences^ 
Arts, and Belles-Lettres). [ij 

Meaux ( Seine- et-Marne). 

2311. Soci6t6 d'Arclieologie, Sciences, Lettres et Arts du De- 
partemeut de Seine-et-Marne {Society of Archaeology, 
Sciences, Letters, and Arts of the Department of Seine-et- 
Marne). [i] 
2313. Soci6t6 d'Horticnlture de I'Arrondissement de Meaux {Hor- 

ticultural Society ofjhe District of Meaux). [i] 
Melun. 

2315. Societe d'Arclieologie, Sciences, Lettres et Arts de Seine- 

et-Maine {Society of Archwolngy, Sciences, Letters, and 

Arts, of Seine-et-Marne). [i] 
Mende. 

2317. Soci^t^ d' Agriculture, Industrie, Sciences et Arts du D6 

parteuient de la Lozfere {Society of Agriculture, Tndus- 

try, Sciences, arid Arts of the Department of fjozere). [i] 



126 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Mettray {Indreet-Loire). 

2319. Direction de la Colonie P«iiiitentiaiie {Direction of the Penal 

Colony), [i] 

Meudon [Seine et-Oise). 

2321. Observatoiie cl'Astioiioiuie Physique de Paris {Paris Oh 
servatory of Physical Astronomy), [i] 

Mirecourt ( Vosges). 

2323. Soci^t6 Agiicole, Horticole et Viticole de PArroudissemeut 
de Mirecourt {Society of Agriculture, Horticulture^ and 
Vine- Cult tire of tlie District of Mirecourt). [i] 
Montauban. 

2325. Soci6t6 Archeoloyiijue <;«- Tarn-et-Garonne {Archaeological 

Sociity of Tnrn-et-Garon7ie). [ij 
2327. Soci^te des Sciences. Belles-Lettres et Arts du Depart6- 
ineut de Tarn et-Gaionue {Society of Sciences, Belles- 
Lettres, and Arts, of Tarn-et-Garonne). [i] 

Montbeliard {Doubs). 

2320. Societe d'Euuilation {Competitive Society), [i] 

Montbrison {Loire). 

2331. La Diana; Societe Historique et Arcbdologique du Forez 
{The Diana; Arch ecological and Historical Society of 

Forez). [i| 
Montpellier. 

2333. Acadeniie de ^Montpellier — Faculte de M^decine {Medical 

Faculty of the Academy of Montpellier). fiiij 
2335. Academic des Sciences et Lettres de Montpellier {Academy 

of Sciences and Letters of Montpellier). [iii] 
2337. Bibliotheqne Universitaire — Section de M6decine { fJwirer 

sity Library — Medical Section). 
2339. l5cole Superieure de Pharmacie {College of Phar)nacy). 
2341. Messager Agricole {Agricultural Herald). [iJ 
2343. Montpellier Medical {Medical Journal), [i] 
2345. Kevue des Sciences Naturelles {Review of Natural Sciences). 
2347. Societe Arclieologique de M( utpellier {Archwological Society 

of Montpellier). [iii] 
2349. Soci4t6 Centrale d'Agriculture du D^partement de I'H^- 

rault {Central Agricultural Society of the Department of 

Heraidt). 
2351. S()ci6t6 de Geographic {Geographical Society), [i] 
2353. Soci(5te d' Horticulture et d'Histoire Naturelle de PH^rault 

{Horticultural and Natural History Society of Herault). 

[iJ 
2355. Soci6t6 Languedocienne de Geographic {Languedoc Geo- 
graphical Society.) [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 127 

Montpellier — Coiitiuued. 

2357. Socicte punr I'l^tude des Lau^uos Eomaues {tSociety for the 

Study of Romance Languayt's). [i] 
2359. Society Sericicole de Montpellier [Silk- Culture Society of 

Montpellier). [i] 
2361. University {University). 

Morlaix. ' 

2363. Society des Etudes Scieutitiqnes du Fiuist^re {Finititere 
Society of Scientific Study). 
Moulins. 

2365. Soci6t6 d']5mulation du D6partemeut de I'Allier {Competi- 
tive Society of the Department of Allier). [i] 
2367. Soci6t6 d'Horticnltnie de I'Allier {Horticultural Society of 
Allier). [i[ 

Moutiers {Savoie). 

2369. Acad^raie de la Val de I'Isere {Academy of the Valley of the 
Isere). [i] 

Nancy. 

2371. Academic de Stauislas {Academy of Stanislas), fiiij 

2373. Bibliotbeque Universitaire — Section de M^decine {Medical 
Section, University Library). 

2375. ficole Foresti^re {School of Forestry). 

2377. Fcole de M^deciue et de Pharmacie {Medical and Pharma- 
ceutical School), [ij 

2379. Faciilte de Medecine {Facultii of Medicine). 

2381. Societe d'ArcIieologie Lorraine et Musee Historiqne Lor- 
rain {Society of Lorraine Archaeology and Lorraine His- 
torical Museum). 

2383. Socicte Ceutrale d'Agriculture {Central Society of Agricul- 
ture), [i] 

2385. Soci^t6 de Geojjraphie de I'Est {Oeographical Society of the 
Fast). 

2387. S)Oci6t6 deMedeciue {Medical Society), fi] 

2389. Soci6t6 des Sciences de Nancy {Society of Sciences, of 
Nancy), [i] 
Nantes. 

2391. Tilcole de Pleiu Exercic6 de Medecine et Pharmacie {School 
of the Whole Practice of Medicine and Pharmacy.) 

2393. Observatoire {Observatory). 

2395. Soci6t6 Academique dela Loire Inf§rieure {Academic Society 
of Lower Loire), [i] 

2397. Soci6te Archeologique de Nantes et de la Loire Inferieure 
{Archaeological Society of Nantes and of Lower Loire), [i.] 

2399. Soci6t<5 des Beaux Arts {Society of Fine Arts). [iJ 



128 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Nantes — Cou tinned. 

2401. Soci^t^ ties Bibliophiles Bretons {^Society of Breton Biblio- 
philes), [i] 
2403. Society d'Histoire Natiiielle {Society of Natural History). 

[i] 

Narbonne {Aude). 

2405. Commission Arc.beologiqneetLitteiaire del'Ariondissement 
de laNarbouue {Archaeological and Literary Commission 

of the District of Xarbonne). [ij 
Nevers. 

2407. Societe Niveiuaise des Lettres, Sciences et Arts {Nevers 

Society of Letters^ Sciences, and Arts), [i] 
Nice. 

2409. Soci6t6 Centrale d'Agricultnre, d'Horticnltnre et d'Accli- 

matation {Central Society of Agriculture, Horticulture, 

and Acclimation). [iJ 
2411. Societe des Architects des Alpes Maritimes {Society of Arch 

itects, of the Maritime Alps), [i] 
2413. Societe Ni^oise des Sciences Xaturelles et Historiques 

{Nicene Society of Natural and Historical Sciences). 
2415. Societe des Lettres, Sciences et Arts des Alpes Maritimes 

{Society of Letters, Sciences, and Arts of the Maritime 

Alps), [i] 
Nimes. 

2417. Acudeune da l:!iimi^s {Acad eyny of Nimes). [liij 

2419. Society d'fitudes des Sciences ^atuTeUea {Society for the 

Study of Natural Sciences), [i] 
2421. Societe d'Horticnltnre et de Botanique du Gard {Horiicul- 

tural and Botanical Society of Gard). [i] 
Niort. 

[Soci6t6 des Arts, Sciences et Belles-Lettres {Society of 

Arts, Sciences, and Belles-Lettres). Discontinued.] 
2423. Societe d'Horticulture, d'Arboriculture et de Viticulture 

des Denx-Sevres {Society of Horticulture, Arboriculture 

and Vine- Culture, of Deux- Sdvres). [i] 
2425. Society de Statistique, Sciences [Belles-Lettres] et Arts 

I du Departement] des Deux-S^vres {Society of Statistics, 

Sciences, and Arts, of He ux- Sevres.) [i] 

Noyon {Oise). 

2427. Comity Historique et Arch6ologique de Xoyon {Historical 
and Archaological Committee of Noyon). [i] 
Orleans. 

2429. Acad^mie de Sainte Croix {Academy of the Holy Cross), [i] 
2431. Soci^t^ d'Agricnlture, Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts 
d'Orleans ( Orleans Society of Agriculture, Sciences, Belles 
LtttrcH, and Arta). [iii] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 129 

Orleans — Continued. 

2433. Soci6t6 Arch6ologique et Historique de l'0rl6ans [Orleans 

Archccological and Historical Society), fij 
2435. Soci6t6 d'Horticulture d'Orldaus {Orleans Horticultxiral So- 
ciety), [ij 



Paris. 



[" Abeille," Journal d'Entomologie {The Bee, Entomological 
Jourmd). (See "L'Abeille.")] 

2439. Academic d' Aerostation M6t6orologique {Academy of Me- 
teorologic Aerostation). 

2441. Acad^mie Rationale Agricole, Manufacturi^re et Coinrner- 
ciale {National Academy of Agriculture, Manufactures, 
and Commerce). 

2443. Acad6mie Rationale de M^decine {National Academy of 
Medicine), [i] 
[Acad^mie des Sciences {Academy of Sciences). (See Insti- 
tut de France.)] 

2445. "L'A^ronaute" (/i^ronaute, 95 rue Lafayette). 

2447. "Americana" (E. Dufoss6, 27 rue Guen^gand). 

2449. Administration des Messageries I^I^ationales — rue iS'otre 
• Dame des Victoires 28 {National Express Company). 

2451. American Exchange in Europe. 

2453. Anuales des Mines (^wna?s o/Mwes). [i] 

2455. Annales de Physique et Chimie {Annals of Physics and 
Chemistry), [i] 

2457. Annales des Fonts et Chauss6es {Annals of Civil Engineer- 
ing). |ij 
[Administration des Lignes T^l^graphiques. (See Minist^re 
des Postes et Telegraphes.)] 

2459. Annales des Sciences G^ologiques {Annals of Geological Sci- 
ences), [i] 

2461. Annales des Sciences Naturelles {Annals of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 

2463. Archives Geuerales deM6decine {General Records of Medi- 
cine), [i] 

2465. Archives de Medecine ^avale {Naval Medical Records), [i] 

2467. " Art Dentaire " {Dental Journal). 

2469. Association pourl'Avancement des Sciences {Association for 
the Advancement of Sciences), [i] 

2471. Association pour I'Encouragement des Etudes Grecques en 
France {Association for the Promotion of Greelc Studies in 
France). \i] 
fAth6n(}e Oriental {Oriental Athenaeum). (See L'Ath^n^e).] 

2473. Uiblioth^que de la Ville {City Library). [Under the direc- 
tion of the Prefecture de la Seine (No. 2637).] [iiil 

H. Mis. 15 ■ 



130 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Paris- -Continued. 

2475. Bibliotbeque dn D6p6t del'^tat Major G6n6ral {Library of 
the General Staff Depot [formerly Ddpot des Cartes et 
Plans], [iii] 

2477. Bibliotheque Nationale {National Library), [iii] 

2479. Bibliotheque Municipale du Seizi^me Arrondissement {Pub- 
lic Library of the Sixteenth District), [i] 

2481. Bibliotheque Polonaise Historique Litteraire {Library of 
Polish Historical Literature), [i] 

2483. "L. Bossange" (G rue de Chabauais). [i] 

2485. Bulletin du Canal lnteToc6cimque {Interoceanic Canal Jour- 
nal). 

2487. Bulletin Hebdomadaire ( Weelcly Journal). 

2489. Bulletin des Sciences Math(§matiques et Astronomiques 
{Bulletin of Mathematical and Astronomical Sciences). 

2491. Bulletin de la Soci^t6 Chimique {Bulletin of the Chemical So- 
ciety). 

2493. Bureau Central M^t^orologique {Central Meteorological Bu- 

reau). \i] 

2494. Bureau Praiicais des ^changes Internationaux — au Minis- 

t^re de I'Instruction Publique et des Beaux Arts 
{French Bureau of Lnternational Exchanges, in the De- 
partment of Public Instruction and Fine Arts), [i] 

2495. Bureau d'Hydrographie {Hydrographic Office). 
2497. Bureau de Statistique {Statistical Bureau). 

2499. Bureau des Longitudes {Bureau of Longitudes), ji] 

2501. Bureau International des Poids et Mesures {International 

Bureau of Weights and Measures). 
2503. Club A] pin Frangais {French Alpine Club), [i] 
2505. College de France {College of France), [i] 
2507. "Connaissance des Temps" [Bureau des Longitudes], [ij 
2509. "Comptes Eendus" (Quai des Augustins 25). 
2511. Commission de la Carte G^ologique de France {Commission 

for the Geological Map of France). 

2513. Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers {Conservatory of Arts and 

the Trades), [i] 

2514. Corps des Fonts et Chauss^es {Corps of Bridge and Road 

Engineers) [Civil Engineers]. 

2515. "Cosmos" [incorporated in "Les Mondes"]. 

2516. [Depot des Cartes et Plans de la Marine {Depot of Charts 

and Designs of the Navy). 

2517. D6pot de la Guerre {Arse^ial) [au Minist^re de Guerre], [i] 
[ficole , d'Application d'Etat-Major {Staff School) in the 

Ecole Militaire.] 
2519. Ecole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures {Central School of 
Arts and Manufactures), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 131 

Paris — Continued. 

2521. Ecole de M6decine {Medical School). 

2523. Ecole Rationale de Dessins et de Math6matiques pour Fap- 
plicatioii des beaux arts a I'industrie {National School 
of Design and Mathematics). 
2525. Ecole des Hautes Etudes {School of advanced studies). 
2527. Ecole Natiouale des Mines {National School of Mines), [iiij 
2529. Ecole Rationale et Sp^ciale des Langues Orientales Vi- 
vantes {National Special School of Living Oriental Lan- 
guages), [ij 
2531. Ecole Polyteciinique {Polytechnic ScJwol). [i] 
2533. Ecole des Fonts etGhsiU.ss6es {School of Civil IJngineering). [i] 
2535. Ecole Sp^ciale d' Architecture {Special Architectural School). 

[i] 
2537. Ecole Sup^rieure de Guerre {Military School), [i] 

2539. "Feuilles des Jeunes Naturalistes" {Journal of Young Nat- 
uralists), [i] 
2541. Gazette des Hopitaux {Hospital Gazette), [i] 
2543. Gazette Hebdoraadaire {Semi-iceeJcly Gazette), [i] 
2545. Gazette M6dicale de Paris {Medical Gazette of Paris), [i] 

["Gervais Journal de Zoologie." Ceased to exist.] 
2547. Institut Agronomique {Agricultural Institute), [i] 
2549. Institut de France {Institute of France). \m] 
2549a. Acad6mie Frangaise. 

25496. Acad^mie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. 
2549c. Academic des Sciences, [i] 
254:9d. Academic des Beaux Arts. 
2549e, Acad^mie des Sciences Morales et Politiques. 
2551. Institution Ethnograpliique {Ethnographical Institute), [i] 
2553. Jardin des Plantes, Biblioth^que {Library of the Botanical 

Garden). [iiiJ 
2555. " Investigateur." 

2557. ''Journal Asiatique" (28 rue de Bonaparte). 
2559. "Journal d'Agriculture Pratique" {Journal of Practical 

Agriculture), [i] 
2561. "Journal de Conchyliologie" {Journal of Conchology). [i] 
2563. "Journal des Connaissances M^dicales Pratiques et de 
Pharmacologic" {Journal of Practical Medicine and 
Pharmacology), [i] 
2565. " Journal des Chemins de Fer et des Travaux Publics " 
{Railroad and Public Works Journal). 
["Journal d'Hygi^ne" (Jowrwa? of Hygiene). (SeeSoci^t^ 
Frangaise d'Hygi^ne et Journal d'Hygi^ne.)] 
2567. " Journal G6n6ral de I'Instruction Publique " {Journal of 
Public Instruction). 



132 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Paris — Continued. 

2569. ''Jourual de M6deciue et de Chirurgie Pratique" (Journal 
of Practical Medicine and Surgery), [i] 

2571. "Journal de Math6matiques [Journal of Mathematics). 
["Journal de Microscopie." Extinct.] 

2573. "Journal de Physique" [Journal of Physics). 

2575. "Journal des Savants" [Journal of Scientists), [i] 

2577. "L'Abeille," Journal d- Entomology [The Bee, Entomologi- 
cal Journal), [i] 

2579. "L'Ath6n6e Oriental" [Oriental Athenaeum), [i] 

2581. " L'Ann^e Scientifique et Litt^raire " [Scientific and Literary 
Annual). 

2583. "L'Exploration" (M. Jardin, 6 rue de Cassette). 

[" L'Institut, Journal TJniverselle." Ceased to exist.] 

2585. " La Ohasse Illustr^e " (56 rue Jacob), [i] 

2587. " La Lumifere Electrique." 

2589. "La Nature" (120 Boulevard St.-Germain). [i] 

2591. " Le Batiment." 

2593. " Le Mus^on," Eevue Internationale* 

2595. " Le Moniteur Scientifique." 

2597. " Le Temps" (10 rue du Faubourg Montmartre). 

2599. "Les Mondes." ["Cosmos" has been united with it.] [i] 

2601. " L'Union Medicale " (Jf efZicaZ Union). 

2603. "Magasin Pittoresque," 29 Quai des Grands Augustins 
[Picturesque Magazine). 

2605. Minist^re de I'Agriculture [Department of Agriculture), [i] 

2607. Minist^re des Finances [Finance Department). 

2609. Minist^re des Affaires Etrang&res [Foreign Office). [i| 

2611. Ministere de la Guerre ( War Department), [iii] 

2613. Ministere de I'lut^rieur [Interior Department). 

2615. Ministere de I'Instructiou Publique et des Beaux Arts 
[Department of Public Instruction and the Fine Arts). 
[iii] 

2617. Ministere de la Marine et des Colonies [Department of Ma- 
rine and the Colonies), [iii] 

2619. Ministere des Postes et T616graphes [Department of Posts 
and Telegraphs), [i] 

2621. Ministere des Travaux Publics [Department of Public 
Works), [i] 

2623. Ministere du Commerce [Department of Commerce). 

2625. Mus6e d'Ethuographie [Trocadero] [Trocadero Museum of 
Ethnography). 

2627. Mus6e d'Histoire Natnrelle [Natural History Museum), [i] 

2629. Mus6e du Louvre [Louvre Museum). 

2631. Mus^e Dupuytren [^ Pficole de M(5decine] [Dupuytren Mu- 
seum). 

2633. Observatoire National [National Observatory), [iiij 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 133 

Paris — Continued. 

2635. Observatoire M(5t(^orologiquo de Montsouris {Central Me- 
teorological Museum of Montsouris). [i] 
[Petites Nouvelles Entomologiques. Ceased to exist.] 

2637. Prefecture de la Seine, Second Bureau du Cabinet {Second 
Bureau of the Cabinet of the Prefecture of the Seine). 

2639. " ProgT^s Medical " {Medical Progress). 

2641. Repertoire de Pliarmacie {Pharmaceutical Repertory), [i] 

2643. Eevue d' Anthropologic, [120 Boulevard St.-Germaiu] {An- 
thropological Review), [i] 

2645. " Eevue Am6ricaine " {American Review). 

2647. Eevue Arch^ologique [Archaeological Review). 

2649. Eevue Botanique, [8 place de I'Oddon] {Botanical Review). 

2651. Eevue d'Ethnographie, [26 rue de Lubeck] {Ethnographic 
Revietc). 

2653. Eevue de G6ographie, [55 rue des Feuillan tines] ( Geograph- 
ical Revieic). 

2655. Eevue G^ograpliique Internationaile, [76 rue de la Pompe] 
{Inter7iational Geographical Revietv). [i] 

2657. Eevue Horticole, [56 rue Jacob] {Horticultural Review). 

2659. Eevue ludustrielle {Industrial Review), [i] 
[Eevue des Oours Litt^raires. Discontinued.] 
[Eevue des Cours Scieutiflques. Discontinued.] 

2660. Eevue des Deux Mondes. [Discontinued.] 
[Eevue de G6ologie. Discontinued.] 

2661. Eevue de Linguistique et de Pliilologie Compar^e {Review 

of Linguistics and Comparative Philology). 
2663. Eevue de Linguistique {Review of Linguistics). 
2665. Eevue Maritime et Coloniale {Shipping and Colonial Review) 

[Eevue et Magasin de Zoologie. Discontinued.] 

2667. Eevue de Philologie {Philological Review). 

2669. Eevue Politique et Litteraire, [111 Boulevard St.-Germain] 
{Political and Literary Review). 

2671. Eevue Scientifique, [111 Boulevard St.-Germain] {Scientific 
Review), [i] 
[Eevue de S^riciculture compar^e. Discontinued.] 

2673. Service Gdograpliique au Minist^re de la Guerre {Geo- 
graphical Bureau — War Department). 

2675. "Science et Nature," [19 rue HautefeuilleJ {Science and 
Nature). 

2677. Soci6t6 d'Accliraatation, 11 rue de LUle {Acclimatization 
Society), [i] 
[Socidte Acad6mique Indo-Cliinoise, etc. (See Neuilly.)] 

2679. Soci6t(S des Agriculteurs de France, [] rue LepelletierJ 
{Association of Agriculturists of France), [i] 



134 LIST Of foreign correspondents. 

Paris — Continued. 

[Soci6t6 d' Agriculture. (See Soci6t6 Centrale d' Api- 
culture).] 

2681. Soci6t6 Am^ricaine de France, [12 rue Ebl6] {American 
Society of France). \i] 

2683. Soci6t6 Anatomique, [ISruede I'Ecolede M^decine] {Ana- 
tomical Society). \i] 

2685. Soci6t6 d'Anthropologie, [15 rue de l']Scole de M^decine] 
{Anthropological Society), [ij 

2687. Soci6t6 Asiatique, [28 rue Bonaparte] {Asiatic Society), [i] 

2689. Soci^t6 de Biologie, [15 rue de I'lilcole de M^decine] {Bio- 
logical Society). |i] 

2691. Soci6t6 Botanique de France, [84 rue de Greoelle] {Botani- 
cal Society of France), [i] 

2693. Soci4t6 Centrale d'Apiculture et d'Insectologie {Central So- 
ciety of Bee- Culture and Entomology). [iJ 

2695. Soci^te Centrale des Architects, [168 Boulevard St.-Ger- 
main] {Central Society of Architects), [i] 

2697. Soci6t6 Centrale d'^Education et d' Assistance pour lesSourds- 
Muets en France, [rue St.- Jacques 254] {Central Society 
for the Education and Assistance of the Deaf and Dumb 
of France), [i] 

2699. Soci^t^ Centrale Rationale d'Horticulture de Paris {Central 
National Society of Horticulture of Paris), [iii] 

2701. Soci6t6 Centrale de M^decine V^t6rinaire, [19 rue de Lille] 
{Central Veterinary Society). [iJ 

2703. Soci^t6 Chimique de Paris, [7 rue des Grands Augustins] 
{Chemical Society of Paris), [i] 

2705. Soci6t6 de Chirurgie de France {Surgical Society of France). 

[i] 
[Soci^t^ Cuvi^rienue. Dissolved.] 

2707. Soci^t^ de I'Ecole des Chartes {Society of the School of 
Charts), [i] 

2709. Soci6t6 d'Encouragement pour I'Industrie Kationale {So- 
ciety for the Promotion of National Industry), [iii] 

2711. Soci^t6 Entomologique de France, [^ la Mairie du VI'' Arron- 
dissement] {Entomological Society of France), [i] 

2713. Soci6t6 d'Etbnographie, [47 Avenue Duquesne] {Ethno- 
graphical Society), [i] 

2715. Soci6t6 d'Ethnologie {Ethnological Society), [i] 

2717. Soci6t6 des iStudes Historiques {Society of Historical Stud 
ies). [iii] 

2719. Soci6t6 des Etudes Japonaises, Chinoises, Tartares et Indo- 
Cbinoises {Society for Japanese, Chinese, Tartar, and 
Indo-Chinese Studies), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 135 

Paris — Coutinued. 

2721. Soci6t6 Fran5aise d'Arch^ologie et de Numismatique, [14 
rue de Verneuil] {French Society of Archceology and iVw- 
misinatics). [ij 

2723. Soci6t^ Fran5aise d'Hygiene, [30 rue du Dragou] {French 
Society of Hygiene). [i| 

2725. Soci6t6 Fianyaise de Navigation A^rienne, [7 rue des Grands 
Augustins] {French Society of Aerial Navigation), [i] 

2727. Society Frau^aise de Statistique Universelle {French Society 
of Universal Statistics). [iJ 

2729. Soci^t^ Franklin, [9 rue Cliriij^tine] {Franldin Society), [i] 

2731. ISoci6t6 de G6ograpliie, [184 Boulevard St.-GeriuaiuJ {Geo- 
graphical Society), [iii] 

2733. Soci6t6 de G6ographie Commerciale, [7 rue des Grands 
Augustins] {Society of Commercial Geography). 
[Soci6t6 de G6ographie-d'Oran. (See Oran, Africa.)] 

2735. Soci6t^ G^ologique de France, [7 rue des Grands Augustins] 
{Geological Society of France), [iii] 

2737. Soci6t6 de I'Histoire de France {Sooicty of French His- 
tory), [i] 

2739. Soci^t^ de I'Histoire du Protestantisme Frangais, [17 place 
Venddme] {Society of the History of French Protestant- 
ism), [i] 

2741. Soci6t6 des Ing^nieurs Civils {Society of Civil Engineers), [i] 

2743. Soci6t6 de Legislation Conipar6e, [44 rue de Reuues] {Society 
of Comparative Legislation), [i] 

2745. Society de Linguistic de Paris, [03 Boulevard St.-Germain] 
[Paris Society of Linguistics), [i] 

2747. Society M6dicale Homceoi)atbique, [31 rue Coquilli^re] {Ho- 
mceopathic Medical Society), [i] 

2749. Society M6dicale des Hopilaux de Paris {Medical Society of 
the Hospitals of Paris), [i] 

2751. Soci(§te M^dico-L^gale de Paris, [7 rue Monslgny] {Medico- 
Legal Society of Paris), [i] 

2753. Society de M^decine Pratique {Society of Practical Medicine). 

2755. Society M^t^orologique de France, [7 rue des Grands Augus- 
tins] {Meteorological Society of France), [i] 

2757. Soci^te Min^ralogique de France — ^ la Sarboune {Mineral- 
ogical Society of France), [i] 

2259. Soci6te Nationale des Antiquaires de France — an Palais du 
Louvre {National Society of Antiquaries of France), [iii] 

2761. Soci6t6 Nationale d'Agriculture de France, [19 rue de Belle- 
chasse] {National Agricultural Society of France), [iii] 

2763. Society Nationale de Topographie Pratique {National So- 
ciety of Practical Topography). 



136 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Paris— Continued. 

[Soci^t^ Nouvelle des Forges et Chantiers de la M6di- 
terran<§e. (See Toulon.)] 
2765. Soci6t6 de Pharmacie {Pharmaceutical Society), [i] 
2767. Soci^t6 Pbilologique de Paris {Philological Society of Paris). 

[i] 
2769. Soci6t6 Philomathique, [7 rue des Grands Augustins] {Philo- 

mathic Society), [i] 
2771. Soci^t^ Polytechnique {Polytechnic Society), [i] 
2773. Soci^t^ Protectrice des Animaux, [19 rue de Lille] {Society 

for the Protection of Animals), [ij 
2775. Soci6t6 de Statistique de Paris {Statistical Society of Paris). 

[iJ 
2777. Soci^t^ de Th^rapeutique {Therapeutical Society), [i] 

2779. Soci6t6 de Topographie {Topographical Society). 

2781. Soci^t^ de Typograpbie (T?/po/7rfl^/i»cai Society), [i] 

2783. Society Zoologique de France {Zoological Society of France). 

Pan. 

2785. Socidte des Sciences, Lettres, et Arts [de Pau] {Society of 
Sciences, Letters, and Arts), [i] 
P6rigueux. 

2787. Soci6t4 d'Agri culture, Sciences, et Arts de la Dordogne 
{Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts, of Dor- 
dogne). [i] 

2789. Soci^t6 Historique et Arch^ologique du P^rigord {Histori- 
cal and Archaeological Society of Perigord). [i] 
Perpignan. 

2791. Observatoire {Observatory). 

2793. Society Agricole, Scientifique, et Litt^raire des Pyr^n^es 
Orientales {Agricultural, Scientific, and Literary Soci- 
ety of the Eastern Pyrenees), [i] 
Picdu-Midi. 

2795. Observatoire {Observatory). 

Poitiers. 

2797. Society d' Agriculture, Belles-Lettres, Sciences, et Arts 

{Society of Agriculture, Belles-Lettres, Sciences, and 

Arts), [i] 
2799. Soci6t6 des Autiquaires de I'Ouest {Society of Antiquaries 

of the West), [i] 
2801. Soci6t6 des Arcbives Historiques {Society of Historical 

Records), [i] 
2803. Soci6t6 de M^decine de Poitiers {Medical Society of Poitiers). 

[iJ 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 137 

Poligny {Jura). 

2805. Soci6t6 d'Agricultnre, Scieuces, et Arts de Poligny {Society 
of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts, of Poligny). [i] 
Pontoise. 

2807. Soci6t6 Histoiique et Arch^ologique de Pontoise et du 

Vexiu {Historical and Archceological Society of Pontoise 

and Vexin). 
Privas. 

2809. Soci6t6 des Sciences Historiques et Natiirelles de I'Ar- 
deche {Society of Historical and Natural Sciences of 
Arddche). [i] 
Puy-de-Dome. 

2811. Observatoire {Observatory). 

ftuimper. 

2813. Soci^t^ Arch^ologique du Finist^re {Arcliwological Society 
of Finistere). 

Rambouillet {Seine-et-Oise). 

2815. Soci6t6 Arch^ologique {Archwological Society), [i] 

Reims {Marne). 

2817. Academic Rationale de Eeims {Natiorial Academy of Reims). 

[iii] 
2819. Mus^e d'Histoire Naturelle de Eeims {Natural History Mu- 
seum of Reims). [1] 
2821. Soci6le Industrielle de Eeims {Industrial Society of Reims). 

[i] 
2823. Soci6te M^dicale {Medical Society), [i] 

2825. Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturelles {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 
Bennes. 

2827. Biblioth^que de Eennes {Library of Rennes). 

2829. Soci6t6 Arch^ologique du Departemeut d' Ille-et- Vilaine 

{Archaeological Society of the Department of Hle-et- 

Vilaine). [i] 

[Soci6t6 des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles, etc. Dis- 
solved.] 

Riom {Puy-de-Dome). 

2831. Soci6t6 du Mus6e [de Eiora] {Society of the Museum), [i] 

Rochefort {Charente-InfSrieure). 

2833. Observatoire {Observatory). 

2835. Soci6t6 d'Agricultnre, des Belles-Lettres, Sciences, et Arts 
de Eocliefort {Rochefort Society of Agriculture, Belles- 
Lettres, Sciences, and Arts), [i] 

2837. Soci6t6 de Geographic {Geographical Society), [i] 



138 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Rodez. 

2839. Soci6t6 des Lettres, Sciences, et Arts de I'Aveyron {Aveyron 
Society of Letters, /Sciences, and Arts). [\] 

Romans (Drome). 

2841. Bulletin d'Histoire Eccl6siastique et d'Arch^ologie Eeli- 
gieuse (Bulletin of Ecclesiastical History and Biblical 
Archaeology). \\\ 

Roubaix (Nord). 

2843. Soci6t6 d' Simulation de Roubaix (Competitive Society of 

Roubaix). [1] 
Ronen. 

2845. Academic des Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts de Eouen 
(Rouen Academy of Sciences, Belles-Lettres, and Arts). 
[iii] 

2847. Bibliotheque de la Ville (City Library), [i] 

2849. Commission des Antiquit6s de la Seiue-Inf^rieure (Com- 
mission of Antiquities of Loicer Seine), [ij 

2851. Soci^te des Amis des Sciences Naturelles [de Rouen] (Soci- 
ety of the Friends of Natural Sciences), fi] 

2853. Soci^t^ des Bibliophiles ISTormandes (Society of the Biblio- 
philes of Normandy), [i] 

2855. Soci6t6 Ceutrale d' Horticulture de la Seine-Inf§rieure 
(Central Horticultural Society of Loicer Seine), [i] 

2857. Soci6t^ d'Histoire de Normandie (Historical Society of Nor- 
mandy), [i] 

2859. Society Industrielle de Rouen (Industrial Society of Rouen). 

[i] 
2861. Soci€t6 Libre d'ElmuIation du Commerce et de I'Industrie 

de la Seine-Iiiferioure (Free Competitive Society of Com- 

merce and Manufactures of Loicer Seine), [i] 

2863. Soci^t6 de Medecine (Medical Society), [i] 

2865. Soci^t6 Normande de G^ograpbie (Normandy Geographical 
Society). [iJ 
Royan-les-Bains. 

2867, Academic des Mases Saintouges (Saintonge Academy of the 
Muses), [i] 

2869. Soci^t6 Linneeune de la CUarente-Lifdricure (Linnean So- 
ciety of Lower Charente). [i] 

[Saint-Brienne. (See Saint-Brieue.)] 

Saint-Brieuc. 

2871. Soci6t6 Arcb^ologique et Historique des Cotes-du-Kord 

(Archwological and Historical Society of Cotes-du- 

Nord). [i] 
2873. Soci6t6 d'^Emulation des C6tes-du-N"ord (Competitive Society 

of Cotes-du-Nord). [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 139 

Saint-Cyr (iSeine-et-Oise). 

2875. Elcole des Affaires Militaires Sp6ciales [ScJiool of Special 
Military Affairs), [i] 

Saint-Di^ (Vosges). 

2877. Soci6t6 Philomatique Vosgienne {Philoniathic Society of 
Vosges). [i] 

Saint-Etienne. 

2879. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture, Industrie, Sciences, Arts et Belles- 
Lettres du D6partement de la Loire {Society of Agricul- 
ture, Industry, Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Lettres of the 
Department of the Loire), [i] 

2881. Soci6t6 de I'Industrie Min6rale [Society of Mineral Indus- 
try), [i] 

2883. Soci6t6 de M^decine [Medical Society), [i] 

Saint-Germain-en-Laye [Seine-et-Oise). 

2885. Soci6t6 d'Horticulture de Saint-Germain-en-Laye [Horti- 
cultural Society of Saint- 6erniain-en-Laye). [i] 

Saint- Jean-d'Angely ( Charente-Inf6rieure). 

[Acad^mie des Muses Santones. (See Royan-les-Bains.)] 
2887 Soci6t6 d'Agriculture de I'Arrondissement de Saint-Jean- 
d'Angely [Agricultural Society of the District of Saint- 
Jean-WAngely). 
2889. Soci6t6 Historique et Scientifique [Historical and Scientific 
Society), [i] 
[Soci6t6 Linn^enne de la Chareute-Inf6rieure. (See Eoyan- 
les-Bains.)] 

Saint- Jean-de-Maurienne [Savoie). 

2891. Soci6t6 d'Historique et d'Arch^ologie de Maurienne [Histor- 
ical and Archaeological Society of Maurienne). [ij 
Saint-L6. 

2893. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture, d'Arch^ologie et d'Histoire IsTatu- 
relle de la Mancbe [La Manche Society of Agriculture, 
Archceology, and Natural History), [i] 

Saint-Maixent [Deux- Sevres). 

2895. Soci<5t6 de Statistique, Sciences et Arts des Deux- Sevres 
[Society of Statistics, Sciences, and Arts of Deux-Sevres). 

[i] 

Saint-Martin-de-Hinx. 

2897. Observatoire [Observatory). 

Saint-Manr. 

2899. Observatoire [Observatory). 



140 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Saint-Omer {Pas-de- Calais). 

2901. Soci^t^ des Antiquaires de la Morinie {Antiquarian Society 
of Morinie). [i] 

Saint-Quentin {Aisne). 

2903. Soci6t6 Acad^mique des Sciences, Arts, Belles-Lettres, 
Agriculture et Industrie {Academic Society of Sciences, 
Arts, Belles-Lettres, Agriculture, and Industry), [i] 

2905. Soci6t6 d'Horticulture de Saint-Quentin {Horticultural So- 
ciety of Saint-Quentin). [i] 

2907. Soci6t6 Industrielle de Saint-Quentin et de 1' Aisne {Indus- 
trial Society of Saint- Quentln and of Aisne. [i] 

Saintes {Charente-Inferieure). 

2909. Commission des Arts et des Monuments Historiques de la 
Charente-Inferieure {Commission of Arts and Historical 
Monuments of the Lower Charente). [ij 
2911. Society des Archives Historiques de la Saintonge et de 
I'Aunis {Society of Historical Records of Saintonge and 
of Aunis). [i] 
[Society des Arts, Sciences et Belles-Lettres. Dissolved.] 

Semur en Auxois {Cote d'Or). 

2913. Society des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de Semur 
{Semur Society of Historical and Natural Sciences), [i] 

Senlis {Oise). 

2915. Comit6 Archeologique de Senlis {Archceological Committee 

of Senlis). [i] 
2917. Society d'Horticulture de I'Arrondissement de Senlis {Hor- 
ticultural Society of the District of Senlis). [i] 
Sens {Yonne). 

2919. Soci^te Archeologique {Archaeological Society), [i] 

Soissons {Aisne). 

2921. Society Archeologique, Historique et Scientifique de Sois- 
sons {Archaeological, Historical, and Scientific Society of 
Soissons). [\] 
[Society des Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et Arts. Dissolved.] 

Tarbes. 

[Society Acad^mique des Hautes-Pyr6nees {Academic So- 
ciety of the Upper Pyrenees). Dissolved.] 

Toulon {Var). 

2923. Soci6t6 AcsLd6miqne dnVaT {Academic Society of Var). [iJ 

2925. Society Nouvelle des Forges et Chantiers de la M^diter- 
ran^e {New Society of Forges and Dockyards of the Med- 
iterranean). [iJ 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 141 

Toulouse. 

2927. Acadduiio <les Jeux Floraux (Academy of Floral Games), [i] 
2929. Acivd6inie de Legislation {Academy of Legislation), [i] 

2931. Acad6niie des Sciences, Insciiptions et Belles- Lettres do 

Toulouse {Toulouse Academy of Sciences, Inscriptions, 
and Belles-Lettres). [iii] 

2932. "Mat^riaux pour PHistoire Primitive et Naturelle de 

I'Homme," {Materials for the Primitive and Natural 
History of Man), [ij 

2933. Observatoire {Observatory), [i] 

2935. Kevue M6dicale de Toulon {Medical Review of Toulon). 

2937. Soci6t6 Acad6mique Hispano-Portuguaise {Spanish-Portu- 
guese Academic Society), [i] 

2939. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture de la Haute-Garonne et de I'Ari^ge 
{Agricultural Society of the Upper Garonne and the 
Ariege). [i] 

2941. Soci6t6 Arcb6ologique du Midi de la France {Archaeological 
Society of the South of France), [i] 

2943. Soci6t6 de Geographic {Geographical Society). 

2945. Soci6t6 d'Histoire Naturelle de Toulouse {Natural History 
Society of Toulouse), [i] 

2947. Soci6t6 Rationale do M^decine, Chirurgie et Pharmacie de 
Toulouse {National Society of Medicine, Surgery, and 
Pharmacy of Toulouse), [i] 

2949. Society des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles {Society of 
Physical and Natural Sciences), [i] 
Tours. • 

2951. Oongr^s Arch^ologique de France {Archaeological Congress 
of France). 

2953. Society d'Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres 
{Society of Agriculture, Sciences, Arts, and. Belles- 
Lettres). [iii] 

2955. Society Arch6ologique de Touraine {Archaeological Society of 
Touraine). [i] 

2957. Soci6t6 Frauyaise d'Arch6ologie pour la Conservation et la 
Description des Monuments Historiques {French Arch- 
aeological Society for the Preservation and Description of 
Historical Monuments), [i] 

2959. Soci6t6 de Geographic {Geographical Society). 

Troyes. 

2961. Soci6te Acad6mique d'Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles- 
Lettres de I'Aube {Academic Society of Agriculture, Sci- 
ences, Arts, and Belles-Lettres). [i] 

2963. Society Horticole, Vigneronne et Foresti^re de Troye {Hor- 
ticultural, Vine-Culture, and Forestry Society of Troyes). 



142 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Tulle. 

2965. Soci6t6 des Lettres, Sciences et Arts de la Corr^ze {Corr^ze 
Society of Letters, Sciences, and Arts). 
Valence. 

2967. Society Ddpartementale d'Agriculture de la Drdme {Depart- 
mental Society of Agriculture of the Drome), [i] 

2969. Soci^t^ D^partementale d'Arch6ologie et de Statistique de 
la Drome {Departmental Society of Archceology and Sta- 
tistics of the Drome), [i] 

Valenciennes {Nord). 

2971. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de I'Arrondissement 
de Valenciennes {Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and 
Arts of the District of Valenciennes), [i] 

2973. Eevue Agricole, IndustrieUe, Littdraire, et Artistique {Ag- 
ricultural, Industrial, Literary, and Artistic Bevieic). 
Vannes. 

2975. Soci6t6 Polymatbique du Morbiban {Polymathic Society of 
Morhihan). [i] 

Vendome {Loir e-et- Cher). 

2977. Soci6t6 Arcb^ologique, Scientifique, et Litteraire du Ven- 
domois {Archaeological, Scientific, arid Literary Society 
of Vendome). [i] 

Verdun {Meuse). 

2979. Society Philomatique {Philomathic Society), [i] 

Versailles. • 

2981. Commission des Antiquitds de Seine-et-Oise {Archaeological 
Commission of Seine-et-Oise). 

2983. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture et des Arts [de Seine-et-Oise] {Society 
of Agriculture and Arts), [i] 

2985. Soci<St6 des Amis des Arts {Society of the Friends of Arts). 

2987. Soci6t^ d'Horticulture du D^partement de Seine-et-Oise 
{Horticultural Society of Seine-et-Oise). [i] 

2989. Soci6t6 des Sciences Morales, des Lettres et des Arts de 
Seine-et-Oise {Society of Moral Sciences, Letters, and Arts 
of Seine-et- Oise). [i] 

2991. Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturelles et M6dicales de Seine-et- 
Oise {Society of Natural and Medical Sciences of Seine- 
et-Oise). [i] 
Vesoul. 

2993. Commission Arcb^ologique de la Haute-Sadne {Archceolog- 
ical Commission of the Upper Saone). [ij 

2995. Soci6t6 d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de la Haute Sadne 
{Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts of the Upper 
Saone). [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 143 

Vire. 

[Society Viroise d'^mulation pour le D^velopperaent des 

BellesLettres, Scieuces, Arts et de I'Industrie. Dis- 
solved.] 

Vitry-le-Francois {Marne). 

2997. Soci^td des Sciences et Arts de Vitry-le-FraD5ois {Society 
of Sciences and Arts of Vitry le Frangois). [i] 

GERMANX. 

[Allgemeiner Deutscher Apotheker-Vereiii {General Ger- 
man Apolhecaries^ Association). (See Halle.) 
2999. Bliiideu Lehrer-Congress ( Congress of Teachers of the Blind). 
• 3001. Yerein der Siid-Deutsclien Forstwirtbe {Association of 
So^lth German Forest Culturists). [i] 
3003. Versaiumluug Deutscher Land- und Forstwirtbe {Assembly 

of German Agric^dturists and Forest Culturists). [i] 
3005. Versamuiluug' Deutscher Naturforscher und Aerzte {Assem- 
bly of German Naturalists and Physicians), [i] 

Aachen {Prussia). 

3007. Kouigliches Polytechnikum {Royal PolytecKnicum). [For- 
merly Eoyal Westphalian Polytechnical High 
School.] [i] 

3009. Stadt-Bibliothek {City Lihrary). \i] 

Altenburg {Prussia). 

3011. Gesammt-Verein der Deutschen Geschichts- und Alter- 
tbums-Vereine {Central Union of the German Associa- 
tions of History and Archwology). [i] 
Altena. 

3013. Vereiu fiir Orts- und Heimath-Kunde ira Siiderlande {Geo- 
graphical Society of Suderland). 

Altenberg {Saxe- Weimar). 

3015. Geschichts und Alterthumsforschende Gesellscbaft des 

Osterlandes {Society for Historical and Archceological 

Research of Osterland). [i] 
3017. Bienenwirthschaftlicber Verein {Society for Bee-Culture). 
3019. Naturforschende Gesellscbaft des Osterlandes {Natural 

History Society of Osterland). [iii] 
3021. Pomologische Gesellscbaft {Pomological Society), [i] 

Altona {Prussia). 

3023. Statistisches Bureau der Stadt Altona {Statistical Bureau 
of the City of Altona). [\] 

3025. Tbierscbutz-Vtuein {Society for the Protection of Ani- 
mals), [ij 



144 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Annaberg {iSaxoni/). 

3027. Annaberg-Buchholzer-Verein fiir Naturkunde {Annaberg- 
Bdvhholz Association of Natural History), [i] 

Ansbach [Bavaria). 

3029. Historischer Verein in Mittelfranken {Historical Society of 
Central Franconia). fi] 

Arnsberg {Prussia). 

3031. Historischer Verein fiir das Herzogthum Westfalen {His- 
torical Society of the Duchy of Westfalen). 
3033. Landes-Kultur-Gesellscbaft fiir den Eegierungsbezirk 
Arnsberg {Agricultural Society of the District of Arns- 
berg). [i] 

• 

Arnstadt ( Schicarzburg-Sondersh ausen ) . 

3035. Fiirstliclies Gymnasium {Gymnasium), [i] 

Arolsen ( Waldecli). 

3037. Landes-Director der Fiirstenthiimer Waldeck und Pyrmont 
( Government of the Principalities of Waldeck and Pyr- 
mont). 
3039. Landwirthschaftlicber Verein im Fiirstenthum Waldeck 
{Agricultural Society of the Principality of Waldeck). [i] 

Aschafienburg {Bavaria). 

304].. Konigliche Forst-Akademie {Royal Forestry Academy). 

Augsburg {Bavaria). 

3043. Deutsclier Apotlieker- Verein {Society of German Apotheca- 
ries), [i] 

3045. Historischer Verein von Schwaben und Neuburg {Historical 
Society of Suabia and Neuburg). [i] 

3047. Landwirthschaftlicher Verein fiir Schwaben und Neuburg 
{Agricultural Society of Suabia and Neuburg). [i] 

3049. Naturhistorischer Verein {Natural History Society), [ij 

3051. Wochenschrift fiir Thierheilkunde und Viehzucht ( Weekly 
Journal of Veterinary Medicine and Li^e- Stock Breed- 
ing), [i] 

Bamberg {Bavaria). 

3053. Gewerbe- Verein {Traders'* Union), [i] 
3055. Konigliche Bibliothek {Royal Library), [i] 
3057. Historischer Verein zu Bamberg {Historical Society of Bam- 
berg). 
3059. Naturforschende Gesellschaft {Natural History Society), [iii] 

Bautzen {Saxony). 

3061. " Macica Serbska," 



LIST OF FOREIGN COREESPONDENTS. 145 

Bayreuth (Bavaria). 

30G3. nistoriscber Verein f'iir Oberfranken {Historical Society of 

Upper Franconia). fi] 
3065. Polytechuiscbe Gesellscliaft {Polijtechnical Society), [i] 

Bendorf [hei Koblenz] [Frussia). 

30C7. Deutsche Gesellschaft flir Psycbiatrie niul Gerichtliche 
Psycbologie {Oerman Society of FsycMatry and Crimi- 
nal Fsychology). fi] 

Berlin {Frussia). 

30G9. Seine Majestiit der Kaiser von Deutscbland, Konij? von 
Preussen {Ris Majesty the Fniperor of Germany, King 
of Frussia). [iii] 

3071. Afrikanische Gesellschaft (African Society), [i] 

3073. Akklimatisations- Verein {Acclimatization Society). 

3075. Allgmeine Deutsche Ornithologiscbe Gesellschaft {General 
German Ornithological Society). 

3077. Anatomisch-Zootomische Sammluug der Uiiiversitiit (Ana- 
tomical-Zootomical Museum of, the University). 

•3079. Arcliaologische Gesellschaft (Archceological Society). 

3081. Arcbitekten-Verein (Architects^ Association), [i] 

3083. Berliner Apotheker- Verein {Berlin Druggists'' Association). 

"3085. Berliner Aquarium (Berlin Aquarium), [i] 

3087. Berliner Entoraologischer Verein (Berlin Entomological So- 
ciety). (See also Deutscber Entoraologischer Verein.) 

3089. Berliner Frobel-Verein (Berlin Froehel Association). 

3091. Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologic und 
Urgescbicbte (Berlin Society of Anthropology, Ethnol- 
ogy, and Frimitive History), [ij • 

3093. Berliner Gesellschaft fiir das Studium der Neueren Spra- 
chen (Berlin Society for the Study of Modern Lan- 
guages), [i] 

3095. Berliner Medizinische Gesellschaft {Berlin Medical So- 
ciety). [iJ 

3097. Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Deutsche Sprache (Berlin Society 
of the German Language). 

3099. Berliner Militiiriirztliche Gesellschaft (J5erZin Society of Mili- 
tary Surgeons). 

3101. Berliner Verein Ilomoopatischer Aerzte (Berlin Society of 
Homeopathic Fhysicians). 

3103. Berliner Zabiiarztlicher Verein (Berlin Dental Association). 

3105. Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Deutsche Sprache und Alter- 
thumskunde (Berlin Society of German Language and 
Antiquity). 

3107. Berlinischer Kiiustler- Verein (Berlin Artists'' Association). 

3109. Beutb-Schinckel Museum (Beuth- Schinclcel Museum). 
H. Mis. 15 10 



146 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Berlin {Prussia) — ContiDued. 

3111. Botanischer Verein der Provinz Brandenburg {Botanical 
Society of the Province of Brandenburg), [i] 

3113. Botanisches Institutder Universitat {Botanical Institute of 
the University). 

3115, Botanisches Museum der Universitat {Botanical Museum of 
the University). 

31 1 7. Central Auschuss der Berliner Aerztlichen Bezirks-Vereine 
{Central Direction of the District Medical Societies of 
Berlin). 

3119. Central-Bureau fiir den Weltverkehr. 

[Central-Bureau fiir die Europaische Gradmessung. (See 
Koniglich-Preussisches Geodatisches Institut.)] 

3121. Central-Institut fiir Akklimatisation in Deutschland {Cen- 
tral Institute of Acclimatization in Germany). 

3123. Central-Komit6 des Deutscben Vereins vom Eothen Kreuz 
{Central Committee of the German Society of the Red 
Cross), [i] 

3125. Central-Direction der Monumenta Germanise {Central Di- 
rection of the " Monuments of Germany'^''). 

3127. Central- Verein fiir Handels-Geographie uud Forderung der 
Interessen Deutschlands im Auslande {Central Associ- 
ation of Commercial Geography, &c.). 

3129. Central-Vereiu fiir das Wohl der arbeitenden Klassen 
{Central Association for the Welfare of the Working 
Classes), [i] 

3131. Central- Yerband der Kauf leute Deutschlands ( Central Union 
of the Merchants of Germany). 

3133. Charity Krankenhaus {Charity Hospital), [i] 

3135. Chemisches Laboratorium der Universitat {Chemical La- 
boratory of the University). 

3137. Chirurgische Klinik der Universitat {Chirurgical Clinic of 
the University). 

3139. Christlicli-Archaologische Kunst-Sammlung der Universi- 
tat {Christian Archceological Museum of the University). 

3141. "Cypria," Verein der Gefliigelfreunde in Berlin {^•Cypria,''^ 
Society of Poultry -Friends in Berlin). 

3143. Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpeu - Verein — Section 
Berlin {Berlin Section of the German and Atistrian Alpine 
Club). 
U45. Deutsche Botanische Gesellscliaft {German Botanical So- 
ciety). 

5147. Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft ( German Chemical Society). 

3149. Deutsche Entomologische Gesellscliaft {German Entomolo- 
gical Society). (See also, Berliner Entomologische Ges- 
ellschaft.) [ij 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 147 

Berlin (Prussia)— Continued. 

3151. Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft {German Geological So- 
ciety), [iii] 

3153. Deutvscbe Gesellschaft fur Chirurgie [German Chirurgical 
Society). 

3155. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Mechanik unci Optik {German 
Society of Mechanics and Optics). 

3157. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Oefitentliche Gesundheitspflege 
{German Society of Public Hygiene). 

3159. Deutsche Gesellschaft zur Erforsch nng Aequatorial Afrika's 
( German Society for the Exploration of Equatorial Africa). 

3161. Deutsche Gesellschaft .zur Hebung des Flachsbaues {Ger- 
man Society for the Culture of Flax). 

3163. Deutsche OrnithQlogische Gesellschaft {German Ornitlw- 
logical Society), [i] 

3165. Deutsche Eeichstags-Bibliothek {Library of the German 
Parliament), [i] 

3167. Deutsche Shakespeare Gesellschaft {German Shahespeare 
Society), [i] 

3169. Deutsche Scliiller-Gesellschaft {Gerraan Schiller Society). 
[Deutsche Viehzucht und Herdbuch-Gesellschaft {German 
Society of Fancy Stocli Breeders). Diss(^lved January 
1, 1885.] 

3171. Deutsche Zoologische Gesellschaft {German Zoological So- 
ciety), [i] . 

3173. Deutscher Akademischer Verein fiir harmouische Lebens- 
weise {German Vegetarian Society). 

3175. Deutscher Entomologischer Verein {German Entomologists^ 
Association). (See, also, Deutsche Entomologische 
Gesellschaft; and Berliner Entomologischer Verein.) 

[i] 
3177. DentsiiherFisGherei-Verem {German Fishery Association), [i] 

3179. Deutscher Haudels- Verein (G^enn« /I Gommercial Association). 

3181. Deutscher Juristeutag {German Jurists^ Association). 

3183. Deutscher Kolonial- Verein {German Colonial Association). 

3185. Deutscher Landwirthschaftsrath {German Agricultural 
Council). 

3187. Deutscher Verein fiir Medizinische Statistik ( German So- 
ciety of Medical Statistics). 

3189. Deutscher Patent-Schutz-Verein {German Association for 
the Protection of Patents). 

3191. Deutscher Verein fiir Vogelzucht und Akklimatisatiou 
[" Aegintha"] {Society for the Culture and Acclimatiza- 
tion of Birds). 
[Deutsches-Gewerbe Museum. (See Kunst-Gewerbe Mu- 
seum.)] 



148 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Berlin (Prussia) — Continued. 

3195. Deiitscher Verein zur Forderung von Luftschiffahrt {Ger- 

man Society for the Promotion of Aerial Navigation). 

3196. Deutsches Scliul-Museum {German School Museum). 

3197. Elektroteclinischer Yerein {Eleeirotechnical Association). 
3199. Entomologischer Verein {Entomologists^ Association). (See, 

also, Berliner Entomologischer Verein, Deutsche En- 
tomologische Gesellschaft, and Deutscher Entomolo- 
gischer Verein.) 
[Europiiische Gradmessung. (See Koniglich-Preussisches 
Geodtitisches Institut.)] 

3201. Frauen-Klinik der Universitiit {Female Clinic of the Uni- 
versity). 

3203. Freihandels-Verein {Free Trade Association). 

3205. Geburtshiilfliche und Gyniikologische Klinik der Universi- 
tat {Obstetrical and Gyncecological Clinic of the Univer- 
sity). 
[General Direction der Koniglichen Museum. (See Konig- 
liche Preussische Museen.)J 

3207. Gesellschaft der Charity Aerzte {Society of the Physicians of 
the Charity Hospital), 

3209. Gesellschaft der Gartenfreunde Berlins {Berlin Society of 
Friends of Horticulture). 
[Gesellschaft flir das Studium der Neueren Sprachen. (See 
Berliner Gesellschaft, &c.)] 

3211. Gesellschaft fiir Deutsche Philologie {Society of German 
Philology). 

3213. Gesellschaft flir lEivd^unde {Geographical Society), [iii] 

3215. Gesellschaft fiir Geburtshiilfe und Gyuakologie {Obstetri. 
cal and Gyncecological Society). 

3217. Gesellschaft fiir Heilkunde {Surgical Society). 

3219. Gesellschaft fiir Mikroskopie {Microscopical Society). 

3221. Gesellschaft fiir Verbreitung von Volksbbildung {Society 
for the Promotion of Education among the People), [ij 

3223. Gesellschaft ITaturforschender Freunde {Society of Friends 
of Natural History), [i] 

3225. Gymnasiallehrer-uud EealschuUehrer- Yerein {Society of 
Teachers of Gymnasium and '■'■ReaV Schools). 

3227. " Herold," Verein flir Siegel und Wappenkunde (" Herold^^ 
Society of Heraldry). 

3229. Geographisch-Statistische Abtheilung des General-Stabs 
( Geographic Statistical Divison of the General Staff of the 
Army). 

3231. Historische Gesellschaft {Historical Society). 

3233. Historisches Museum [Hohenzollern Museum] fiir die Ge- 
schichte des Hauses Hohenzollern {Hohenzollern Mu- 
seum). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 149 

Berlin {Prussia) — Coutinued. 

3235. HufelJindische Medizinische Gesellschaft {Rufeland Medi- 
cal Society). 
3237. Horticultur-Gesellscliaft [Dr. Koch] {Horticultural Society). 

3239. Juristen-Gesellscbaft {Jurists' Society). 

3241. Institut fiir Pathologische Anatomie [Universitiit] {Institute 
of Pathological Anatomy). 

3243. Kaiserlicbe [Deutsche] Admiralitats-Haupt-Bibliothek {Li- 
brary of the Imperial Navy), [i] 

3245. Kaiserliches [Deiitsches] Admiralitats-Hydrographisches 
Amt {Hydrographic Office of the Imperial Navy), [i] 

3247. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Auswiirtiges Amt {Imperial For- 
eign Office). 

3249. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Bundes-Amt fiir das Heimath- 
wesen {Imperial Home Office). 

3251. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Gesundheits-Amt {Imperial Health 
Office). 

3253. Kaiserliche [Deutsche] Normal- Aichuiigs-Kommission {Im- 
perial Central Gauging Commission). 

3255. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Ober-See-Amt {Imperial Marine 
Court). 

3257. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Patent- Amt {Imperial Patent Of- 
fice), [i] 

3259. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Eeichs-Amt des Innern {Imperial 
Department of Interior). 

3261. Kaiserliche [Deutsche] Eeichs-Druckerei {Imperial Print- 
ing Office). 

3263. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Eeicbs-Eisenbabn-Amt {Imperial 
Railroad Department). 

3265. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Eeichs-Justiz-Amt {Imperial De- 
partment of Justice). 

3267. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Eeicbs-Post-Amt {Imperial Post- 
Office Department). 
[Kaiserlicbe [Deutsche] Eeichstags-Bibliothek. (See Deut- 
sche Eeichstags-Bibliothek).] 

3269. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Eeichs - Schatz - Amt {Imperial 
Treasury Department). 

3271. Kaiserliche [Deutsche] Eeichs-Scbul-Kommission {Impe- 
rial School Commission). 

3273. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Statistisches Amt {Imperial Sta- 
tistical Bureau). [1] 

3275. Kaiserlicbe [Deutsche] Techniscbe Kommissiou fiir See- 
schifffabrt {Imperial Technical Commission of the Navy). 

3277. Klinik iiir Ohirurgie [Universitiit] {Chirurgical Clinic). 



150 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Berlin {Prussia) — Continued. 

3279. Klinik fiir Kinderkraukheiten [Universitat] {Clinic for Dis- 
eases of Children). 

3281. Klinik fur Nerven und Psycliische Krankbeiten [Univer- 
sitat] {Clinic for Nervous and Psychical Diseases). 

3283. Klinik fiir Syphilis und Hautkrankheiten [TTniversitiit] 
{Clinic for Syphilis and Skin Diseases). 

3285. Klinik und Polikliuik fiir An gen krankbeiten [UniversitatJ 
{Clinic for Diseases of the Eye). 

3287. Klinik und Poliklinik fiir Obrenkrankbeiten [Universitat] 
{Clinic for Diseases of the Ear). 

3289. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Abgeordneten-Haus {Royal 
House of Representatives). 

3291. Koniglicbe [PreussiscbeJ Akademie des Bauwesens {Royal 
Architectural Academy), [i] 

3293. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Akademie der Kiinste {Royal 
Academy of Arts). 

3295. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Akademie der Wissenscbaften 
{Royal Academy of Sciences), [iiij 

3297. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Artillerie-Priifungs-Kommission" 
{Royal Commission for Testing of Ordnance). 

3299. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe OejQfentlicbe] Bibliotbek( i^oyaZZi- 
hrary). [iii] 

3301. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Blindeu-Anstalt {Royal Institution 
for the Blind), [i] 

3303. Koniglicber [Preussiscber] Botaniscber Garten {Royal Bo- 
tanical Garden). 

3305. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Finanz-Ministerium {Royal 
Treasury Department). 

3307. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Fiiedricbs Wilbelms Universitat 
{Royal Frederic William University), [i] 

3309. Koniglicber [Preussiscber] General-Stab der Armee {Royal 
General Staff of the Army), [i] 

3311. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Geodatiscbes Institut [Central 
Bureau fiir die Europaiscbe Gradmessung] {Royal Geo- 
detic Institut) [Central Bureau of the European Geo- 
detic Commission), [i] 

3313. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Geologiscbe Landes-Anstalt und 
Berg- Akademie {Royal Geological Institution and Min- 
ing Academy). [iii[ 

3315. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Gesetz-Sammlungs-Amt {Royal 
Office of Records). 
[Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Gewerbe-Akademie. See Ko- 
niglicbe [Preussiscbe] Tecbniscbe Hocbscbule.)] 

3317. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Herrenbaus ( Tipper Souse of the 
Royal [Prussian] Diet). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 151 

Berlin (Prussia) — Continued. 

3319. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Justiz-Miiiisterium {Royal De- 
partment of Justice). 

3321. Kouiglicbe [Pieussiscbe] Laiides-Aufnabme im General- 
Stab der Arraee {Royal Topographical Surrey — Royal 
iStaff of the Army). 

3323. Koniglicbes [PreussiscbesJ Kriegs-Ministerium {Royal War 
Departme^it). [i] 

3325. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Kriegs-Akademie {Royal Military 
Academy), [i] 

3327. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Kunst-Gewerbe-Museum {Uoyal 
Museum of Art Industry), (i] 

3329. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Landes-Oekonomie-'Kollegium 
{Royal National Agricultural College). 

3331. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Landes-Yertbeidigungs-Kommis- 
sion {Royal Commission for the National Defence). 

3333. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Landwirtbscbaftlicbe Hocbscbule 
{Royal Agricultural College), [i] 

3335. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Mecbaniscb-Tecbniscbe Versucbs- 
Austalteu {Royal Institution for Mechanical and Tech- 
nical Tests). 

3337. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Meteorologiscbes Institut {Royal 
Meteorological Institute), [i] 

3339. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Miuisterium der Auswartigen 
Angelegeubeiten {Royal Foreign Office). 

3341. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Miuisterium der Geistlicben- 
Unterricbts- und Medicinal -Angelegeubeiten {Royal 
Department of Worship^ Education., and Medicinal 
Affairs). 

3343. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Ministerium des Innern {Royal 
Interior Department), [i] 

3345. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Ministerium fiir Handel und 
Geweibe {Royal Department of Commerce and Trade), [i] 

3347. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Ministerium fiir Laudwirtb- 
scbaft, Domanen und Forsten {Royal Department of 
Agriculture, Domains., and Forests), [i] 

3349. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Ministerium iiir Oeffeutlicbe 
Arbeiten {Royal Department of Puhlic Worlcs). 

3351. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Mliuze {Royal Mint). 

3353. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Museen, General-Direction {Di- 
rector General of the Royal 2Iusenms). [iii] 

3355. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Ober-Berg-Amt {Royal Mining 
Bureau). 

3357. Koniglicbe [Preussiscbe] Staats-Arcbive {Royal National 
A7'chives) [in tbe Presidency of tbe Ministry of State]. 

3359. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Staats-Ministeriura {Royal De- 
partment of State). 



162 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Berlin (Prussia) — Coutinuecl. 

33G1. Koniglicbes [Preussiscbes] Statistiscbes Bureau [Royal Sta- 
tistical Bureau), [i] 

3363. Kouiglicbe [Preussiscbe] Statistiscbe Central-Kommission 
{Royal Statistical Central Commission). 

3365. Koiiiglicbe [Preussiscbe] Steruwarte {Royal Observatory). 

[i] 
3367. Kouiglicbes [Preussiscbes] Strafgefangniss am Plotzeusee 

{Royal Prison), [i] 
3369. Kouiglicbes [Preussiscbes] Topograpbiscbes Bureau im 

Grossen Geueral-Stab {Royal Topographical Bureau^ 

General Staff of the Army). 
337i. Kouiglicbe [Preussiscbe] Tecbniscbe Hocbscbule {Royal 

Polytechnical College), [i] 
3373. Kouiglicbe [Preussiscbe] Vereinigte Artillerie- uud Inge- 

uieur-Scbule {Royal Artillery and Engineering School). 

[i] 

3375. Kongress Deutscber handwirthe {Congress of German Agri- 
culturists). 

3377. Kriegsgescbicbtlicbe Abtbeilung im Grossen General- Stab 
{Bivision of War Records^ General Staff of the Army). 

3379. Laudwirtbscbaftlicber Verein der Provinz Brandenburg 
{Agricultural Society of the Province of Brandeiiburg). 

3381. Literarischer Club {Literary Club). 

3383. Magistrat der Hauptstadt {City Government), [i] 

3385. Miirkiscbes Provinzial Museum {Provincial Museum of 
Brandenburg). 

3387. Matbematiscber Verein der Kouiglicben Uuiversitat 
{Mathematical Association of the Royal University). 

3389. Mediziniscb-Cbirurgiscbe Akademie fur das Militair {Mili- 
tary Medical Chirurgical Academy). 

3391. Mediziniscb -Cbirurgiscbes Friedrich- Willielms-Institut 
[Pepiniere] (Fredericlc William Medico-Chirurgical In- 
stitute). 

3393. Mediziniscb-Cbirurgiscbe Gesellscbaft {Medico-Chirurgical 
Society). 
[Mediziniscbe Gesellscbaft. (See Berliner Mediziniscbe 
Gesellscbaft.)] 

3395. Mediziniscbe Klinik der Universitiit {Medical Clinic of the 
University). 

3397. Mediziniscb-Piidogogiscber Verein [Medico- Pedagogical As- 
sociation). 

3399. Militiiriscbe Gesellscbaft {Military Society). 

3401. Mineralien-Cabinet der Uuiversitat {Miner alogical Museum 
of the University). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 153 

Berlin {Prussia) — Continued. 

3403. Nachrichten -Bureau cles Grossen General-Stabs {Bureau of 

Information of the General Staff of the Armij). 
3405. National-Gallerie {National Gallery). 

3407. Numismatiscbe Gesellschaft {Numismatic Society). 

3409. "Ornis" Gesellschaft fiir Vogel-Kunde und Liebliaberei 
(" Ornis^' Ornithological Society). 

3411. Pflanzen Physiologiscbes Institut der Universitiit {Institute 
of Vegetable Physiology of the University).) 

3413. Pharmakologiscbes Institut der Universitiit {Pharmacolog- 
ical Institute of the University). 

3415. Pbilologischer Verein {Philological Association). 

3417. Pbilosopbiscbe Gesellschaft {Philosophical Society). 

3419. Photographischer Verein zu Berlin {Photographical Asso- 
ciation of Berlin). 

3421. Physikalische Gesellschaft {Physical Society), [i] 

3423. Physiologische Gesellschaft {Physiological Society), [i] 

3425. Physikalisches Institut der Universitiit {Physical Institute 
of the University). 

3427. Physiologisches Institut der Universitiit {Physiological In- 
stitute of the University). 

3429. Poliklinik der Universitiit {Policlinic of the University). 

3431. Polytechnische Gesellschaft {Polytechnic Society), [i] 

3433. Preussische Haupt-Bibel-Gesellschaft {Prussian Bible So- 
ciety), [i] 

3435. Eauch Museum (Ranch Museum). 

3437. Eedaktion : "Annalen fiir die Hydrographie " {Annals of 
Hydrography). 

3439. Eedaktion: "Arbeiterfreund" (^ne?ido/#/fe Working Man). 

3441. Eedaktion: "Archiv fiir Eisenbahuwesen" (^ai/roa<ZArc/i- 
ives). 
Eedaktion : "Archiv fiii' Post- und Telegraphic" {Archives 
for Post and Telegraphic Affairs). 

3443. Eedaktion : "Allgemeine Medizinische Ceutral-Zeitung " 
{General Medical Central Gazette). 

3445. Eedaktion : "Allgemeine Zeitschrift fiir Psychiatric und 
Psychiatrisch-Gerichtliche Mediziu" {Gazette for Psy- 
chiatry and Criminal Psychiatric Medicine). 

3447. Eedaktion : "Archiiologische Zeitung " {Archaeological Ga- 
zette). 

3449. Eedaktion: "Archiv fiir die Artillerie- und Ingenieur Offi- 
ciere des Deutschen Eeichsheeres" {Archives of the 
Artillery and Engineer Officers of the German Army). 

3451. Eedaktion : "Archiv fiir Gyniikologie" {Archives of GyncB- 
cology). 

3453. Eedaktion: "Archiv fiir Kirchliche Kunst" {Archives of 
Ecclesiastical Art). 



154 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Berlin (Prussia) — Continued. 

3455. Redaktion : "Arcliiv fiir Klinische Ohirurgie" {Archives 

of Clinical Chirurgy). 
3457. Eedaktion: "Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte " flS Briider 

Strasse] {Archives of Natural History), [formerly 

Troschel Archiv, Bonn J. [i] 
3459. Eedaktion : " [Virchow] Arcliiv fiir Pathologische Anato- 
mic " ( Virchow Archives of Pathological Anatomy), [ij 
34C1. Redaktion: "Archiv fiir Psychiatrie und Nervenkrank- 

heiten" {A^'chives of Psychiatry and Nervous Diseases). 
3463. Redaktion: "Archiv fiir Slavische Philologie" {Archives of 

Sclavonic Philology). 
3465. Redaktion : "Archiv fiir wissenschaftliche und praktische 

Thierheilkunde" {Archives of the Science and Practice of 

Veterinary Pathology). 
3467. Eedaktion: "Archiv des Deutschen Landwirthschafts- 

raths" {Archives of the German Agricultural Council). 
3469. Eedaktion : "Archiv fiir Syphilis und Hautkrankheiten" 

{Archives of Syphilis and Shin Diseases). 
3471. Eedaktion: "Aus Allen Zeiten und Landen" {From all 

Times and Countries). 
3473. Eedaktion : " Berliner Jahrbuch " {Berlin Annual). 
3475. Eedaktion: "Berliner Blatter fiir Naturgemasse Lebens- 

weise" {Vegetarian Journal). 
3477. Eedaktion: "Berliner Entomologische Xeitschrift" (BeWiii 

Entomological Gazette). 
3479. Eedaktion: "Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift" {Berlin 

Clinical WeeMy). 
3481. Eedaktion: "Berliner Miinzblatter" {Berlin Numismatic 

Journal). 
3483. Redaktion: " Botanischer Jahresbericht" {Botanical An- 
nual). 
3485. Redaktion: "Central-Blatt fiir die Medizinische Wissen- 

schaft" {Central Journal of Medical Sciences). 
3487. Redaktion: "Central-Blatt fiir W. Stoltze's Stenographie" 

{Central Journal of Stenography). 
3489. Redaktion: "Chemische Industrie" {Chemical Industry). 
3491. Redaktion: " Chemisch-TeclmischesWochenblatt {Chemico- 

Technical Weeldy). 
3493. Redaktion : " Communal-Blatt fiir die Haupt- und Residenz- 

Stadt Berlin" ( Official Journal of the City of Berlin). 
3495. Redaktion: "Der Deutsche Herald" {The German Herald). 
3497. Redaktion: "Der Deutsche Schulraanu" [Padagogik Jour- 
nal]. {The German Pedagogue). 
3499. Redaktion: "Das Rothe Kreuz" {The Bed Cross). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 155 

Berlin (Prussia) — Continued. 

3501. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Blatter fur Stenographie" (G^erwcwi 
Stenographic Journal). 

3503. Eedaktiou: "Deutsclie Entomologi8cheZeitschrift(G'enna« 
Entomological Gazette). ' 

3505. Eedaktiou: Deutsche Heeres-Zeituug (German Army Ga- 
zette). 

3507. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Juristen-Zeitung" [German Jurists'* 
Gazette). 

3509. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Allgemeine Polytechnische Zeit- 
uug" [German General Poli/technic Gazette). 

3511. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Kousulats-Zeitung" (G'erwan (7oto- 
sular Gazette). 

3513. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche LaudwirthschaftlichePresse" (G^er- 
man Agricultural Journal). 

3515. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Literateu-Zeitung" ((renna^t Z/*^er- 
ati Gazette). 

3517. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Mediziuische Wocheuschrift" (G^er- 
man Medical WeeMy). 

3519. Eedaktiou: Deutsche Militararztliche Zeitung ^"^ [German 
Military Surgeons' Gazette). 

3521. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Eechtsanwalts-Zeitung" [German 
Advocates' Gazette). 

3523. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Eundschau" (G^erwaw jReviet^). [i] 

3525. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Schulzeituug" [German School 
Gazette). 

3527. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Thierschutz-Zeituug" [German Ga- 
zette for Protection of Animals). 

3529. Eedaktiou: "Deutsche Fischerei-Zeitung" [German Fish- 
eries Gazette). 

3531. Eedaktion: "Deutsches Handels-Archiv" [German Com- 
mercial Archives). 

3533. Eedaktion: "Deutsches Eeich und Koniglich-Preussischer 
Staats-Auzeiger" [Imperial German and Boyal Prussian 
Official Gazette). 

3535. Eedaktiou: "Elektrotechuische Zeitschrift" [Electrotech- 
nical Gazette). 

3537. Eedaktion: "Forstwisseuschaftliches Central-Blatt" [Cen- 
tral Forestry Gazette). 

3539. Eedaktiou : " Fortschritte der Physik" [Progress of Physics). 

3541. Eedaktiou: "Gefiederte Welt" (Pow/fry World). 

3543. Eedaktion: "Gegeuwart [Die]" [The Times). 

3545. Eedaktion: "Gesetz-Sammlaug fiir die Kouiglich-Preus- 
sischen Staaten" [Royal Prxissian Laic Journal). 

3547. Eedaktion: "Globus" (G^to&ws Geographical Journal). 



156 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Berlin {Prussia) — Continued. 

3549. Eedaktion: "[von] Graefe's Archiv fiir Ophthalmologie" 
[Graefe Archives of Ophthalmology). 

3551. Eedaktion: " Grunert Archiv fiir die Math ematik " (Grwner* 
Archives of Mathematics). 

3553. Eedaktion: "Hebraische Bibliographic" {Hebrew Bibliog- 
raphy). 

3555. Eedaktion : " Hermes Zeitschrift fiir Klassische Philologie" 
{Hermes Journal of Classical Fhilology). 

3557. Eedaktion : " lUustrirtes Patent-Blatt " {Illustrated Patent 
Gazette). 

3559. Eedaktion : " Isis, Zeitschrift fiir alle Naturwissenschaft- 
lichen Liebhabereien " {Isis, Journal of Natural Scien- 
tific Subjects). 

3561. Eedaktion: "lUustrirte Eoman-Zeitung" {Illustrated Novel 
Journal). 

3563. Eedaktion : " Jahrbuch des Koniglichen Botanischen Gar- 
tens" {Annals of the Boyal Botanical Garden). 

3565. Eedaktion : " Jahrbuch der Koniglichen Kunstsammlun- 
gen " {Annals of the Royal Museum). 

3567. Eedaktion : " Jahrbuch fiir die Deutsche Armee und Ma- 
rine" {Annals of the German Army and Navy), [i] 

3569. Eedaktion : "Jahrbuch fiir praktische Aerzte" {Annals of 
Practical Physicians). 

3571. Eedaktion: "Jahrburch fiir Wissenschaftliche Botanik" 
{Annals of Scientific Botany), [i] 

3573. Eedaktion : " Jahrbuch iiber den Fortschritt der Klassi- 
schen Alterthumswissenschaft" {Annals of the Progress 
of Classical Archceology). 

3575. Eedaktion: "Jahrbuch iiber die Fortschritte der Mathe- 
matik" {Annals of the Progress of Mathematics). 

3577. Eedaktion : " Jahrbuch iiber die Germanische Philologie" 
{Annals of German Philology). 

3579. Eedaktion: " Jahresbericht i^ber den Fortschritt aufdem 
Gebiete der Gesammten Agriculturchemie " {Annals 
of the Progress of Agricultural Chemistry). 

3581. Eedaktion: " Jahresberichteder GeschichtsWissenschaft" 
{Annals of Historical Science). 

3583. Eedaktion: " Jahresberichte der Physiologic " {Annals of 
Physiology), [ij 

3585. Eedaktion: " Jahresberichte iiber die Leistungen der Ge- 
sammten Medizin " {Annals of the Results of Medicine). 

[ij. 
3587. Eedaktion : " Journal fiir die reine und angewandtc Ma- 

thematik" {Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPOND ICNTS. 157 

Berlin (Prussia) — Continued. 

3589. Eedalitiou: "Journal fiir Ornithologie" [Journal of Orni- 
thology), [i] 

3591. Kedaktiou : " Juristische Wocbenschrift " ( Jwmts' WeeJcly). 

3593. Eedaktiou : " Laudwirthschaftliclie Jahrbiicher " [Central- 
Blatt fiir Deutschlund] (Agricultural Aiinals). [i] 

3595. Eedaktion : " Magazin fiir die Jiidische GescLicbte und 
JjiteTatur" (Magazine of Jewish History and Literature). 

3597. Eedaktion: "Magazin fiir die Literatur des In- und Aus- 
landes" (Magazine of Domestic and Foreign Literature). 

3599. Eedaktion: "Magazin fiir Stenographic" (Magazine of Ste- 
nography). 

3601. Eedaktion: "Militar-Wochenblatt" (M^^tort/ Weelihj). 

3003. Eedaktion: "Mouatsschrift fiir Ohrenlieilkunde" (J. wncw- 
lists'' Monthly). 

3605. Eedaktion: " Nachricliten fiir Seefahrer" (Information for 
Mariners). 

3607. Eedaktion: "Naturae Novitates" (Neics of Nature). 

3609. Eedaktion: "Der IS^aturforscher" (TAe iV'a/wraZifO. [ij 

3611. Eedaktion: "]S'autischesJabrbticli"(iV"azttJcaZ Almanac), [i] 

3613. Eedaktion: "I^eue Aera" (Neio Era). 

3615. Eedaktion: " PadagogischeZeitung "(Pfp^Za/jro^rica? Gazette). 

3617. Eedaktion: " Padagogischer Auzeiger " (Pceda^'o^/imi Jotir- 
nal). 

3619. Eedaktiou: " Padagogisches Intelligenz-Blatt" (Pcprfa</0(/i- 
cal Neics). 

3621. Eedaktion: "Patent-Blatt" (Patent Gazette). 

3623. Eedaktion: " Physiologische Wochenschrift" (Physiological 
Weel'ly). 

3625. Eedaktion: "Provinzial-Correspondenz" (Provincial Cor- 
respondence). 

3627. Eedaktion: "Eepertorium der Wissenschaften" (Repertory 
of Sciences). 

3629. Eedaktion: "Statistische QoTiL^&Y'^TiAQnz'''' (Statistical Cor- 
respondence). 

3631. Eedaktion: " Vierteljahrssehrift fiir Gericbtliclie Medizin 
und offentlicbes Sanitiitswesen" (Quarterly Journal of 
Criminal Medicine and Public Hygiene), [i] 

3633. Eedaktion: "Yierteljabrsscbrift fiir Heraldik, Spbragistik 
und Genealogie" (Quarterly Journal of Genealogy, &c.). 
[Eedaktion : " Vircbow Arcbiv." (See Arcbi v fiir Patbolo- 
giscbe Anatomic.)] 

3635. Eedaktion: "Wiedemann's Annalen der Pbysik und Cbemie" 
(Wiedemann''s Annals of Physics and Chemistry). 

3037. Eedaktion: "Zeitscbrift fiir das Berg- und Iliittenwesen" 
(Mining and Smelting Gazette). 



158 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Berlin (Prussia) — Continued. 

3639. Redaktion: "Zeitschrift f'iir die Gesammten Naturwissen- 
schafteu" {Gazette of Natural Sciences), [i] 

3641. Redaktion: "Zeitschrift fiir das Bauwesen" (Arc/w^ecfMr«Z 
Gazette). 

3643. Redaktion: "Zeitschrift fiir Deutsches Alterthum uud 
Deutsche Literatur (Gazette of German Archaeology and 
Literature). 

3645. Redaktion: " Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologic " (J^f/moZorjricail Ga- 
zette), [ij 

3647. Redaktion: "Zeitschrift fiir KliuischeMedizin" (Journal of 
Clinical 3Iedicine). 

3649. Redaktion: "Zeitschrift fiir Mikroskopie" (Journal of 
Microscopy). 

3651. Redaktion: "ZeitschriftfiirMikroskopieundFleischschau" 
(Journal of Microscopy and Inspection of Meat). 

3653. Redaktion: "Zeitschrift fiir Numismatik " (Gazette of Nu- 
mismatics). 

3655. Redaktion : " Zeitschrift fiir Preussische Geschichte und 
Landeskunde" (Gazette of Prtissian History and Geog- 
raphy). 

3657. Redaktion: " Zeitschrift fiir Preussisches Recht " (Gazette 
of Prussian Law). 

3659. Redaktion : " Zeitschrift fiir Vergleichende Sprachfor- 
schung auf dem Gebiete der Indo Germanischen 
Sprachen " (Gazette of Comparative Linguistics). 

3661. Schule des General-Stabs der Koniglich -Preussischen Armee 
(School of the General Staff of the Royal Prussian Army)^ 

3663. Societiit fiir Wissenschaftliche Kritik (Society of Scientific 
Criticism). 

3665. Stadtisches Statistisches Bureau (Statistical Bureau of the 
City), [i] 

3667. Stenographischer Yerein (Stenographers'' Association), [i] 

3669. Technische Deputation fiir Gewerbe [Ministry of Com- 
merce] (Technical Commission for Trade). 

3671. Technologisches Institut (Technological Institute). 

3673. Thierarztlicher Verein der Mark Brandenburg ( Veterinary 
Association of the Province of Brandenburg). 

3675. Thierschutz-Verein (Society for the Protection of Animals), [i] 
[TJniversitatsBibliothek. (See Koniglich-PreussischeFrie- 
drichs-Wilhelms-Universitat.)] 

3677. Yerein Berliner Buchhaudler (Berlin Boohsellers' Associa- 
tion). 

3679. Verein der Aerzte und Wundarzte (Society of Physicians and 
Surgeons). 
[Verein der Apotheker. (See Berliner Apotheker-Verein.)] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 159 

Berlin {Prussia) — Coutiuued. 

3681. Verein der Preussischen Rechts-Anwalte {Prussian Lawyerh 
Association). 

3683. Verein Deutscher Eisenbahn-Verwaltuugen {Association of 
German Railroad Managers). |ij 

3685. Verein Deutscber lugenieuie {German Engineers^ Associa- 
tion), [i] 

3687. Verein fiir die Geschichte Berlins {Association for the His- 
tory of Berlin). 

3689. Verein fiir die Deutsche Literatur {Association for German 
Literature). 

3691. Verein fiir die Deutsche Statistik {Association for the Statis- 
tics of Germany). 

3693. Vereiu fiir Eisenbahnkunde {Association for Railroad Engi- 
neering), fij 

3695. Verein fiir Feuerbestattung {Cremation Society). 

3697. Verein fiir die Geschichte der Mark-Brandenburg {Society 
for the History of the Province of Brandenburg), [i] 

3699. Verein fiir Deutsche Volkswirthschaft (J.6Sociafto?i /or Ger- 
man Popular Economy). 

3701. Verein fiir Innere Medizin {Association for Internal Medi- 
cine). 

3703. Verein fiir Praktische Thieriirzte {Association of Practical 
Veterinary Surgeons). 

3705. Verein zur Beforderung des Gartenbanes in den Koniglich- 
Preussischen Staaten {Society for the Promotion of Hor- 
ticulture in the Royal Prussian States), [iii] 

3707. Verein zur Beforderung des Gewerbefleisses {Association 
for the Promotion of Industry), [i] 

3709. Verein zur Forderung der Handelsfreiheit {Society for the 
Promotion of Free Trade). 

3711. Verein zur Forderung der Photographie {Society for the 
Promotion of Photography), [i] 

3713. Volkswirthschaftliche Gesellschaft {Society of Popular 
Economy). 

3715. Volkswirthschafts-Rath {Council for Popular Economy). 

3717. Wissenschaftlicher Central- Verein {Scientific Central Asso- 
ciation). 

3719. Ziegler- und Kalkbrenner- Verein {Society of Brick and Lime 
Kiln Proprietors), [ij 

3721. Zoologischer Garten {Zoological Garden), [i] 

3723. Zoologisches Museum der Universitiit {Zoological Museum 
of the Vnixersity). fi] 

Bielefeld {Prussia). 

3725. Historischer Verein fiir die Grafschaft Ravensberg {His- 
torical Society of the Earldom of Ravensberg). 



160 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Blankenburg Prussia). 

[Natnrwissenschaftlicher Verein des Harzes. Defunct. 
Superseded by Griifliche Oeffentlicbe Bibliothek, Wer- 
nigeroda.] 

Blase witz [hei Dresden] (Saxony), 

3727. Museum Ludwig Salvator [Ludwlg Salvator Museum), [i] 

Bonn (Prussia). 

3729. Gorres Gesellschaft zur Pflege der Wissenschaft im Katho- 
liscben Deatschland (Gorres Society for the Promotion 
of Science in Catholic Germany). 

3731. K.-Preussisches Ober-Berg-Amt {Royal Prussian Mining 
Department). 

3733. Landwirthschaftlicber Central- Verein fiir Rhein-Preussen 
(Central Agricultural Society of Rhenish Prussia), [i] 

3735. Mineralogisclies Museum und Institut der Universitat 
(Miner alogical Museum and Institute of the University). 

3737. Naturhistorischer Verein der Preussischen Rheinlande und 
Westfalens (Natural History Society of the Rhenish 
Provinces and Westphalia), [iii] 

3739. Naturwissenscbaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 

3741. jSTiederrbeinische Gesellscbaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde 
(Nether-Rhenish Society of Natural and Medical Sci- 
ences), [i] 

3743. ISIiederrbeiniscber Verein fiir oeffentlicbe Gesundbeitspflege 
(Nether -Rhenish Association for Public Hygiene). 

3745. Redaktion des Arcbivs fiir die gesammte Pbysiologie des 
Menscben und der Thiere (Archives of the Physiology of 
Man and Beast), [i] 
[Redaktion des Troscbel'schen Arcbiv — now in Berlin.] 

3747. Societa Pbilologa ( Philological Society). 

3749. Universitats-Bibliothek (Z/iirary o///<e University), [iii] 

3751. Verband der Aerztlicben Vereine im Rbeinland, Nassau, 
Westfalen und Lotbringen (Association of Medical So- 
cieties in the Rhenish Provinces, Nassau, Westphalia, and 
Lorraine). 

3753. Universitats-Sternwarte ( University Observatory), [i] 

3755. Verein von Altertbumsfreunden im Rbeinlande (Society of 
Archaeologists of the Rhenish Provinces), [i] 

Boothcamp [near Kiel] (Prussia). 

3757. Sternwarte (Observatory), [i] 

Brandenburg a. Havel (Prussia). 

3759. Historiscber Verein (Historical Society), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 161 

Braunsberg {Prussia). 

37C1. Historischer Verein fiirEimlaiid [Historical Society of Erm- 
land). 

3763. Eedaktioii: "Vereinigte Frauendorfer Blatter" {United 

Frauendorf Journal [formerly iu Fraueudorf ]. 

Braunschweig {Brunswick). 

3764. Arcbiv fiir Anthropologie {Archives of Anthropology). 

3765. Archiv fiir das Studium der Neuereu Spracheii iin<l Litera- 

turen {Archives for the Study ofthe2Iodern La nguages and 
Literature). 

3767. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologic und 
Urgeschichte {German Society of Anthropology, Eth- 
nology, and Primitive History). 

3769. Deutsche Ornithologische Gesellschaft {German Ornitholog- 
ical Society), [i] 

3771. Garteubau-Gesellschaft {Horticultural Society), [ij 

3773. "Globus." 

3775. Herzogliches Naturhistorisches Museum {Ducal Natural 
History Museum), [i] 

3777. Stadt-Bibliothek (CiY^/i/iftrar^/). [i] 

3779. Verein fiir I^aturwissenschaf ten ( Society of Katural Sciences). 

[i] 
3781. Verein fiir ofifentliche Gesundheitspflege im Herzogthum 

{Society for Public Hygiene). 

3783. F. Vieweg u. Sohn {F. Vieiceg & Son), [in] 

Bremen {Germany). 

3785. Bibliothek des Museums {Library of the Museum), [i] 
3787. Bremer Regierung {Bremen Government), [ij 
3789. Bureau fiir Bremische Statistik {Bureau of Bremen Statis- 
tics). [iJ 
3791. Gartenbau- Verein fiir Bremen {Bremen Horticultural Soci- 
ety), [i] 
3793. Geographische Gesellschaft {Geographical Society), [i] 
3795. 'ELandels-K-dmrner {Chamber of Commerce), [i] 
3797. Historische Gesellschaft des Kiiustler-Vereins {Historical 

Society of the Artists^ Union), [i] 
3799. Landwirthschafts-Verein {Agricultural Society), [i] 
3801. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein {Society of Xatural Sci- 
ences), [i] 
3803. Nord-Deutcher Lloyd Dampfschift-Gesellschaft {North Ger- 
man Lloyd Steamship Company), [i] 
3805. Observatorium der Xavigations-Schule {Observatory of the 

School of Xavigation). [ij 
3807. Stadt-Bibliothek {City Ubrary). [iii] 
H. Mis. 15 11 



162 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Breslau {Prussia). 

3809. Blindeii-Anstalt {Asylum for the Blind), [i] 

3811. Botaniscber Garten {Botanical Garden). 

3813. Breslauer Dichterscliule {Breslau School of Poetry). 

3815. Deutsclier uiid Oesterreicbisclier Alpen-Verein, Section 
Breslau {German and Austrian Alpine Association, Bres- 
lau Section). 

3817. Koniglicli-Preussisches Ober-Berg-Amt {Royal Prussian 
2fining Bureau), [i] 

3819. LaDdwirtbscbaftlicberCentral-Vereiii fur Scblesien {Central 
Agricultural Society for Silesia), [i]. 

3821. Pbysikaliscber Vereiii {Physical Society). 

3823. Pbysiologiscbes Institut {Physiological Institute), [i] 

3825. Scblesiscber Ceutral-Gewerbe-Verein {Silesian Central 
Polytechnical Society), [i] 

3827. Schlesiscbe Gesellscbaft fiir Vaterliiudiscbe Kultur {Sile- 
sian Society for National Improvement), [i] 

3829. TJniversitats-Bibliotbek ( University Library), [iii] 

3831. Uuiversitats-Sternwarte {University Observatory), [i] 

3833. Vereiii fiir Gescbicbte der Bildeiideu Kunst {Society of the 
History of Plastic Art). 

3835. Verein fiir Gescbicbte und Altertbiimer Scblesiens {Society 
of Silesian History and. Antiquities). 

3837. Vereiu fiir das Museum Scblesiscber Altertbiimer {Society 
of the Museum of Silesian Antiquities), [ij 

3839. Vereiii fiir Scblesiscbe Insekteukunde {Society of Silesian 
Entomology), [i] 

Bromberg {Prussia). 

3841. Landwirtbscbaftlicber Ceutral-Yerein fiir deu Netze Dis- 
trict {Agricultural Central Union for the District of 
Ketze). [i] 

Cassel. (See Kassel.) 

Celle {Prussia). 

3843. Journal fiir die Landwirtbscbaft {Agricultural Journal). 
3845. Koniglicbe Landwirtbscbafts-Gesellscbatt {Royal Agricul- 
tural Society). [iJ 

Chemnitz {Saxony). 

3847. Handwerker- Verein { Mechanics'' Association), [i] 

3849. Koniglicb-Sacbsisehes Meteorologiscbes Institut {Royal 

Saxon Meteorological lyistitutc) [formerly in Leipsicj. [i] 
3851. Naturwisseuscbaftlicbe Gesellscbaft {Society of Natural 

Sciences). [\] 
3853. Oeffentlicbe Handels - Lebr - Austalt {Public Commercial 

School), [i] 



LIST OF FOKEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 163 

Chemnitz (Saxony) — Continued. 

3855. Redaktion der Deutschen ludustrie-Zeitung {German In- 

dustnal Gazette), [i] 
3857. Statistisches Bureau {Statistical Bureau), [i] 
3859. Techuiscbe Staats-Lehr-Anstalt {School of Technology), [i] 
3861. Vereiu fiir Chemuitzer Geachichte {Society for the History of 

Chemnitz), [i] 

Coblenz. (See Kobleuz.) 

Colmar {Alsace). 

3863. Soci6t6 d'Histoire Naturelle de Colmar {Colmar Natural 
History Society), [i] 

Danzig {Prussia). 

3865. Central- Ve rein West-Preussisclier Landwirthe {Central As- 
sociotion of West Prussian Agriculturists), [i] 

3867. Naturforscbende Gesellscbaft {Society of Natural Sciences). 
[iii] 

3869. Stern wane [der Naturforscbenden Gesellscbaft] {Observa- 
tory), [i] 

3871. West-Preussiscber Gescbicbts-Verein ( West Prussian His- 
torical Society). 

Darmstadt {Hesse). 

3873. Garteubau-Verein {Horticultural Society), [i] 

3875. Grossberzoglicbe Central-Stelle fiir Gewerbe und Handel 
{Grand Ducal Bureau of Industry and Commerce), [i] 

3877. Grossberzoglicbe Central Stelle fiir die Landes-Statistik 
{Grand Ducal Bureau of Statistics), [i] 

3879. Grossberzoglicbe Geologiscbe Anstalt {Grand Ducal Geolog- 
ical Bureau). 

3881. Grossberzoglicbe Hof- Bibliotbek {Grand Ducal Library). 
[iii] 

3883. Grossberzoglicbe Tecbniscbe Hocbscbule {Grand Ducal 
Polytechnicum). [i] 

3885. Grossberzoglicb-Hessiscber Gewerbe- Verein {Grand Ducal 
Polytechnical Society), [i] 

3887. Grossberzoglicb-Hessiscbes Kataster-Amt {Grand Ducal 
Bu rea u of Land Records) . [i] 

3889. Grossberzogliches Miuisterium des Aeusseru {Grand Ducal 
Foreign Office). 

3891. Grossberzoglicbes Museum {Grand Ducal Miiseum). [i] 

3893. Historiscber Verein fiir das Grossberzogtbum Hessen {His- 
torical Society of the Grand Duchy of Hesse), [i] 

3895. Jabresbcricbte liir reine Cbemie {Chemical Annals). 

3897. Mittelrbeiniscber Geologiscber Verein {Geological Society of 
the Middle Rhine). 

3899. Verein fiir Erdkunde und Verwandte Wisseuscbaften {So- 
ciety of Geographical and Kindred Sciences), [i] 



164 LIST OP FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Dessau {Anhalt). 

3901. Naturhistorischer Verein (Natural History Socieiy). [i] 
3903. Verein fiir AnLaltische Geschicbte uud Alterthuraskunde 
{Society of the History and Antiquities of Anhalt). 

Donaueschingen {Baden). 

3905. Verein fiir Geschicbte und Naturgeschichte der I3aar {So. 
ciety of History and Natural History of the Baar). [i] 

Dortmund (Prussia). 

3907. Historischer Verein fiir Dortmund und die Grafscbaft 
Mark {Historical Society of Dortmund and the Earldom 
of 3TarJc). 

Dresden {Saxony). 

3909. Seine Majestiit der Konig von Sacbsen {His Majesty the 
King of Saxony), [iii] 

3911. Afrikaniscbe Gesellscbaft {African Society), [i] 

3913. Bezirks-Verein zur Fiirsorge fiir die aus Straf- und Be- 
strafungs- Anstalten Eutlassenen {District Society for 
the Care of Discharged Prisoners). 

3915. Blatter fiir Gefliigelzucbt {Journal of Poultry Culture). 

3917. Dresdner Verein zum Scbutz der Tbiere {Dresden Society 
for the Protection of Animals). 

3919. Deutscber und Oesterreicbiscber Alpen-Vereiu, Section 
Dresden {Dresden Section of the German- Austrian Al- 
pine Society). 

3921. Flora : Gesellscbaft fiir Botanik und Gartenbau {Botanical 
and Horticultural Society, '■'■Flora''''), [i] 

3923. Gebirgs-Verein fiir die Sacbsiscb-Biibmiscbe Scbweiz {Mon- 
tanistic Society of Saxon- Bohemian Sicitzerland). 

3925. General Direktion der Koniglicben Sammlungen fiir Kunst 
und Wissenschaft {Director- General of the Eoyal Collec- 
tions of Art and Science), [iii] 

3927. Gesellscbaft fiir Botanik und Zoologie {Botanical and Zo- 
ological Society), [i] 

3929. Gesellscbaft fiir Natur-und Heilkunde {Society of Natural 
and Medical Sciences), [i] 

3931. Gesellscbaft fiir Siicbsiscbe Kircbengescbicbte {Society for 
Ecclesiastical History in Saxony). 

3933. Gewerbe- Verein {Poly technical Society), [i] 

3935. Koniglicbes Historiscbes Museum {Royal Historical Mu- 
seum), [i] 

3937. Kouiglicbe Landes-Blinden-Anstalt {Royal Asylum for the 
Blind), [i] 

3939. Koniglicbes Mineralogiscb und Naturbistoriscbes Museum 
{Royal Mineralogical and Natural Historical Museum), [i] 



I 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 165 

Dresden ( Saxony) — Continued. 

3941. Kouigliches Ministerium des Aeusseru {KoyaL Foreign 
Office). 

3943. Koniglicbes Ministerium fiir Cultus und Uuterriclit {Royal 
Department of Worship and Education). 

3945. Kouigliche Oetfentliche Bibliothek [Royal Public Li- 
brary) [iii] 

3947. Koniglic'ae Oekonoraie-Gesellscbaft ira Konigreich Sachsen 
(Royal Saxon Agricultural Society), [i] 

3949. Koniglicbes Polytecbnikuni {Royal Polytechnicum). [i] 

[Koniglicbes Sanitats Officiers-Corps. (See Konigiicbe 
Sauitats-Direction.)] 

3951. Konigliche Sanitiits-Direction {Royal Board of Health), [i] 

3953. Koniglicbes Statistiscbes Bureau {Royal Statistical Bu- 
reau), [ij 

3955. Koniglicbes Stenograpbiscbes Institut {Royal Stenographic 
Institute), [ij 

3957. Koniglicbes Topograpbiscbes Bureau [Kriegs-Ministerium] 
{Royal Topographical Bureau). 

3959. Koniglicbes Zoologiscbes und Antbropologiscb-Etbno- 
grapbiscbes Museum {Royal Zoological and Anthropo- 
logic- Ethnographical Museum), [ij 

39G1. Landes-Medicinal-Collegium {National Medical Commis- 
sion), [ij 

3963. Ministerium des Koniglicben Hauses {Ministry of the Royal 
Household), [i] 

3965. Naturwissenscbaftlicbe Gesellscbaft "Isis" ("Z9i.s" Society 
of Natural Sciences), [ij 

3967. Numismatische Gesellscbaft {Numismatic Society). 

3969. Oeffentlicbe Handels-Lebr-Anstalt der Dresdener Kauf- 
mannscbaft {Public Commercial School of ihe Dresden 
' Merchants), [ij 

3971. Pbotograpbiscbe Gesellscbaft {Photograph ical Society), [ij 

3973. Redaktion des Arcbiv fiir Sacbsiscbe Gescbicbte {Archives 
of the History of Saxony). 

3975. Sacbsiscber Ingenieur und Arcbitecten-Verein {Saxon En- 
gineers^ and Architects^ Association), [ij 

3977. Vereiu fiir Erdkuude {Geographical Society), [ij 

3979. Verein fiir Gescbicbte und Topograpbio Dresdens und sei- 
ner Umgebung {Society for the History and Topography 
of Dresden and its Surroundings). 

3981. Koniglicb-Sacbsiscber Verein fiir Altertbiimer {Royal Saxon 
Antiquarian Society), [ij 

DUrkheim {Bavaria). 

3983. " Pollicbia" Naturwisseuscbafilicber Verein der Rbeinpfii^z 
{'■'■PoUichia,^- Society of Nattiral Science of the Rhenish 
Palatinate), [ij 



166 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Diisseldorf (Prussia). 

3985. Diisseldorfer Gescbichts-Verein {Diisseldorf Historical So- 
ciety). 

3987. Niederrheinischer Verein fiir offentliche Gesundheits- 
pflege {Nether- Rhenish Society of Public Hygiene). 

3989. Eheinisch-Westlalische Gefangniss Gesellschaft {Rhenish- 
Westphalian Prison Associntion). 

3991. Sternwarte {Observatory), [i] 

3993. Verein zur Wahruug der gemeinsamen wirthschaftlichen 
Interessen im Ebeinlaude und in Westfalen {Society 
of Economical Interests in Rhenish Prussia and West- 
falia). 

3995. Zweig- Verein des Deutschen Colonial-Vereins in Frank- 
furt a. M. {Branch of the German Colonial Society of 
Franlfort-on-the-2fain). 

Eisenach {Saxe- Weimar). 

3997. Grossberzogliches Carl - Friedrichs - Gymnasium {Grand- 
Ducal Charles Frederick Gymnasium). 
3999. Eeal-Gymntisium {^^ReaP Gymnasium), [i] 
4001. Thiiringer Wald-Verein {^^ Thuringer WaW^ Society). 

Eisleben {Prussia). 

4003. Verein fiir Gescbicbte und Altertbiimer der Grafscbaft 
Mansfeld {Society of the History and Antiquities of the 
Earldom of Mansfeld). 

Elberfeld {Prussia). 

4005. Bergiscber Gescbicbts-Verein {Berg Historical Society), [i] 

4007. Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein von Elberfeld und Barmen 

{Elberfeld and Barmen Society of Natural Sciences), [i] 

Eldena \bei Greifswald] {Prussia). 

4009. Gartenban-Verein fiir Neuvorpommern und Eiigen {Horti- 
cultural Society ofNetv Pomerania and Rugen). [i] 
[Landwirtbscbafts-Akademie {Agricultural Academy). 
Ceased to exist.] 

Emden {Prussia). 

4011. Gesellscbaft fiir Bildeude Kiinste und Vaterlandiscbe Alter- 
tbiimer {Society of Plastic Arts and National Antiqui- 
ties), (i) 
4013. Naturforscbende Gesellscbaft {Naturalists' Society), [iii] 
4015. ISTavigations-Scbule {School of Navigation), [i] 
4017. Taubstummen-Anstalt {Institute for the Deaf and Du7nb). [i] 

Ems {Prussia). 

4019. Eedaktion der Balneologiscben Zeitung {Balneological 
Gazette), [ij 



I 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 1G7 

Erbach {Uesse). 

4021. Odeuwald Club {Odenwald Club). 

Erfurt (Prussia). 

4023. Allgemeiner Aerztlicher Verein von Tbiiringen (General 

Society of Physicians of Thuringia). 
4025. Akademie gemeimuitziger Wissenscbaften {Academy of 

Useful Sciences). [\] 
4027. Gartenbau-Vereiii {Horticultural Society), [i] 
4029. Gewerbe-Yereiu {Polytecknical Society), [i] 
4031. Verein fiir Gescbicbte und Altertbums-Kunde {Historical 

and Archceological Society), [i] 

Erlangen {Bavaria). 

[Biologiscbes Ceutral-Blatt. (See Pbysiologiscbes Insti- 
tut.)J 
4033. Pbysikabscb-Mediciniscbe Societiit {Physico-Medical So- 
ciety), [i] 
4035. Pbysiologiscbes Institut {Fhysiological Institute). 
4037. Uuiversitats-Bibliotbek ( Umversity Library), [iii] 

Essen a. d. Ruhr {Prussia). 

4031). Feldraesser- Verein {Surveyors^ Society). 

4041. Historiscber Verein fiir Stadt und Stift Essen {Historical 

Society of Essen). 
4043. Verein fiir Tbierscbutz und Gefliigelzucbt {Society for the 
Protection of Animals and for the Culture of Poultry). 

Frankfurt - am- Main . 

4045. Allgemeine Deutscbe Patent- niid MusterscbntzAusstel- 

lung ( JJnirersal Patent and Pattern Exhibition), [ij 
4047. American Public Librar3' [formerly in Stuttgart], [i]. 
4049. Deutscbe Malakozoologiscbe Gesellscbaft {German Malaco- 

zoological Society), [i] 
4051. Deutscber Kolonial- Verein {German Colonial Society). 
4053. Freies Deutscbes Hocbstift {Free German '^Hochstift^\) [i] 
4055. Garteubau Gesellscbaft "Flora" {Horticultural Society, 

''Flora^'). [i] 
[Gesellscbaft fiir Deutscb lands altere Gescbicbtskunde. 

(See Central-Direction der Monnmenta Germanic, in 

Berlin.)] 
4057. Koniglicbe Eisenbabn-Direction [Sacbsenbausen] {Royal 

Railroad Direction). 
4059. Juristiscbe Gesellscbaft {Jurists^ Society). 
4061. Neue Zoologiscbe Gesellscbaft {N'eic Zoological Society), [i] 
40G3. Pbysikaliscber und Aerztlicber Verein {Physical and Medical 

Society) [deposit its books witb tbe Senckenbergiscbe 

Bibliotbek]. [i] 
40G5. Ebeiniscbes Museum fiir Pbilologie {Rhenish Philological 

Museum). 



168 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Frankfart-am-Main — Continued. 

4067. Senckeubergische liibliothek {8enckenher<j Library). 

4069. Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft {Sencken- 
berg Naturalists' Society) [deposits its books with the 
Seckeubergische Bibliothek]. [iii] 
[Statistischer Yerein (>S'tetis^iea7 Association) — same as 4075]. 

4071. Yerein fiir Geschichte und Alterthumskunde {Historical 
and Archceological Association), [i] 

4073. Statistisches Amt der Stadt Frankfurt {Statistical Bureau 
of the City of Franlifort.) 

4075. Yerein fiir Geographic und Statistiks {Society of Geography 
and Statistics) [care of Stadt-Bibliothek]. [i] 

4077. Taunus Club {Taunus Club). 

4079. Yerband Deutscher Touristen-Yereine {Association of Ger- 
man Tourists^ Societies). 

4081. "Zoologischer Garten" [Redaktiou] {^^ Zoological Gar- 
den "). [ij 

Frankfurt-an-der-Oder ( Prussia) . 

4083. Historisch-Statistischer Yerein {Historical Statistical Asso- 
ciation), [ij 
4085. Handels-Kammer (O/mw&er o/" Commerce). [1] 

Frauenberg {Prussia). 

[Historischer Yerein fiir Ermeland. (See Braunsberg.)] 

Frauendorf {Bavaria). 

[Redaktion der Yereinigten Frauendorfer Blatter {United 
Frauendorf Journal). (See Braunsberg.)] 

Freiberg {Saxony). 

4087. Aerztlicher Yerein {Physicians' Society). 

4089. "Anglo American Club." 

4091. Bergmannischer Yerein {Miners' Association). 

4093. Freiberger Alterthums-Yerein {Freiberg Archaeological So- 
ciety). 

4095. Koniglich-Sachsiscbe Berg-Akademie {Royal Saxon Mining 
Academy), [iii] 

Freiburg-im-Breisgau {Baden). 

4097. Blinden-Beschaftigungs-Austalt {Establishment for the Em- 
ployment of the Blind) . [i] 

4099. Breisgau-Yerein "Schau in's Land" {Breisgau Society 
^^Schau inh Land^''). 

4101. Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der Geschichts-, Alterthums- 
undYolkskuude von Freiburg, dem Breisgau und den 
angrenzenden Laudschaften {Society for the Promotion 
of the Historical, Antiquarian^ and Geographical Knoicl- 
edge of Freiburg, fhe Breisgau, and the adjacent Territo- 
ries). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 169 

Freiburg-im-Breisgau [Baden) — Continued. 

4103. Gesellscbaft zur Beforderuug der Naturwissenschaften {So- 
ciety for the Promotion of N^atural Sciences). 
4105. Kjrcblicli-Historischer Verein der Erzdidcese Freiburg 

(Society for Ecclesiastical History of Freiburg). 
4107. Naturforscbende GeseHscbaft {Naturalists^ Society), [i] 
4109. Redaktiou des "Arcbiv I'iir Antbropologie " {Archives of 

Anthropology), [i] 
4111. Universitats-Bibliotbek ( University Library), [iii] 
4113. Verein der Freiburger Aerzte {Society of Freiburg Physi- 
cians). 
Freising {Bavaria). 

4115. Koniglicb-Bayeriscbe Laudwirtbscbaftliche Central- Scbnle 
" Weibenstepban " {Royal Bavarian Agricultural School 
^^Weihenstephan"). [i] 
Friedberg {Hesse). 

4117. Bliudeu-Anstalt {Asylum for the Blind), [i] 
4119. Grossberzoglicbe Taubstummen-Anstalt {Grand Ducal In- 
stitution for the Deaf and Dumb), [i] 

Friedrichshafen ( Wurtemberg). 

4121. Verein fiir die Gescbicbte des Bodensee's und seiner Umge- 
bung {Society for the History of Lalce Constance and its 
Environs). 
Fulda {Prussia). 

4123. Rbon Club {Bhon Club). 

4125. Verein fiir Naturkunde {Natural History Society), [ij 

FUrth (Bavaria). 

4127. Gewerbe-Verein (Polytechnical Association), [i] 
Gera (Beuss). 

4129. Fiirstlicb-Eeussiscbe Landes-Kegierung (Government of 

Reuss Principality). 
4131. Gesellscbaft derFreunde der Naturwissenscbaften (Society 
of the Friends of Natural Sciences), [i] 
Giessen (Hesse). 

4133. Aerztlicber Verein der Provinz Oberhessen (Physicians'' So- 
ciety of the Province of Upper Hesse). ' 

4135. Jabresbericbte iiber die Fortscbritte der reinen Chemie 
(Annual Records of the Progress of pure Chemistry). 

4137. Oberbessische Gesellscbaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde (Up- 
per Hesse Society of Natural and Medical Sciences), [iii] 

4139. Oberbessiscber Verein fiir Localgescbicbte (Upper Hesse 
Local Historical Society), [i] 

4141. Uhiversitiits-Bibliotbek (University TJbrary). [iiij 

4143. Zoologiscbes ]\Iuseuin (Zoological Museum), [i] 

4145. Zoologiscb-Zootomiscbes Institut der Universitat (Zoologic- 
Zootomical Institute of the University). 



170 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESFONDENTS. 

Gorlitz (Prussia). 

41^1. Gartenbau-Vereiu I'lir die Ober-Lausitz {Horticultural Soci- 
ety of Upper Lusatia). [i] 
4149. GewerbeVerein {Polytechnical Association), [i] 
4:151. Naturforscbende Gesellschaft (iVcf^wm/ii'/s' Society). |iii] 
4153. Oberlausitzer GesellscHaft der Wisseascbaften {Scientijic 

Society of Upper Lusatia). [iii] 
4155. Verein fiir Gefliifi^elzucbt [Society for Poultry Culture), [i] 

Gottingen (Prussia). 

4157. Authropologischer Y erein (Anthropological Society). [Has 
no library.] [i] 

4159. "Beitrage zur Kunde der Iiido-Germaniscben Spracben" 
(Contributions to the Knoicledge of the In do Germanic 
Languages). 

4161. Botaniscber Garten [Botanical Garden). 

4163. Cbemiscbes Laboratoriiim der Universitiit [Chemical Labo- 
ratory of the University). 

4165. Biblioteca Mecbanico-Tecbnologico (Mechanic- Technological 
Library). 

4167. Geoguostiscbes Institut (Geognostical Institute). 

4169. Gesellscbaft fiir Kircbeurecbtswissenscbalt (Society for Ec- 
clesiastical Law). 

4171. Journal fiir Laudwirtbscbaft (Agricultural Journal), [ij 

4173. Koniglicbe Societiit der Wissenscbaften (Royal Society of 
Sciences). [Transfer all books to University Library.] [i] 

4175. Koniglicbe Sternwarte [Royal Observatory), [i] 

4177. Landwirtbscbaftlicbc Akademie (Agricultural Academy). 

4179. LandwirtbscbaftlicbCbemiscbesLaboratorium [Laboratory 
of Agricultural Chemistry). 

4181. Medicinisch-cbirurgiscb-oi)btbalmologiscb-geburtsbiilflicbe 
Klinik (Medical^ Surgical, Ophthalmological, Obstetrical 
Clinic). 

4183. Mineralogiscbes Institut (Mineralogical Institute). 

4185. Paleontologiscbes Institut (Palccontological Institute). 

4187. Pbarmaceutiscbes Institut (Pharmaceutical Institute). 

4189. "Pbilologiscber Anzeiger*' (Philological Gazette). 

4191. " Pbilologus." 

4193. Pbysikaliscbes Institut (Physical Institute). 

4195. Pbysiologiscbes Institut (Physiological Institute). 

4197. Universitats-Bibliotbek ( University Library), [iii] 

4199. Zeitscbrilt fiir Wissenscbaftlicbe Zoologie [Journal of 
Scientific Zoology). 

4201. Zoologiscbes Museum (Zoological Museum), [i] 

4203. Zoologiscb-Zootomiscbes Institut (Zoologie- Zootomical In- 
stitute), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 171 

Gotha (Saxe-Cohurg). 

4205. Alinanacb de Gotlia [Almanach of Gotha). [i] 

4207. Geogiaphisclie Anstalt [Justus Perthes] {Geographical 

Establishment), [iii] 
4209. Herzoglicbe Bibliotbek tier Friedeusiein'scben Saramlun- 

gen {Ducal Library of the Friedenstein Collections), [iii] 
[Petermann's Geograpbiscbe Mittbeilungen. (See Geo- 

grapbisebe Anstalt.)] 
4211. Steruwarte {Observatory), [i] 
4213. Tbiiriuger Gartenbau-Verein {Horticultural Society), [i] 

Greifenberg-in-Pommern {Prussia) . 

4215. Poinmerscbe Oekonomiscbe Gesellschaft {Agricultural So- 
ciety of Fomerania). [i] 

Greifswald {Frussia). 

4217. Baltiscber Central- Verein zur Beforderung der Landwirth- 

scbaft {Baltic Central Association for the Advancement 

of Agriculture), [i] 
4219. Geograpbiscbe Gesellschaft {Geographical Society). 
4221. Gesellschaft flir Pommerscbe-Geschicbte uud Alterthums- 

kunde [Eiigisch-Pommerscbe Abtheiluug] {Society of 

Fomeranian History and Archceology). [i] 
4223. Naturwissenscbaftlicber Yereiu von Neuvorpommern und 

Eiigen {Society of Natural Sciences of Neic Fomerania 

and Bugen). 
4225. JJuiyersitsbts-Bibhothek {University Library), [iii] 

Greiz {Reuss). 

4227. Fiirstlich-Eeuss'sche Landes-Regierung {Government). 

Guben {Frussia). 

[Lausitzer Gewerbe-Yerein {Folytechnical Society).] 

Gumbinnen {Frussia). 

[Landwirtbschaftlicber Central- Verein fiir Litbauen und 
Masuren {Central Agricultural Association of Lithuania 
and Masuren). (See Insterbarg.)] 

Giistrow {MecMenburg). 

4231. Verein der Freunde der Naturgescbichte in Mecklenburg 
[care of Opitz & Co., Giistrow] {Society of Friends of 
Natural History in MecMenburg). [iii] 

Halberstadt (Prussia). 

[Deutsche Ornitbologiscbe Gesellschaft. (See Braunsch- 
weig.)] 

Hall-am-Kocber [Schwabisch Hall] { Wiirteniberg). 

4233. Historiscber Verein fiir das Wurtembergische Franken 
{Historical Society of Wiirtemberg Franconia). [1] 



172 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

H?Ue-an-der-Saale {Prussia). 

4235. Deutscher Apotheker-Yereia {German Apothecaries'' Asso- 
ciation), [i] 

4237. Deutsche Morgonlandische Gesellschaft {German Oriental 
Society), [i] 

4239. Deutscher Verein zuui Schutz der Vogelweit {German So- 
ciety for the Protection of Birds). 

4243. Geschichtlicher Verein der Provinz Sachsen {Historical 
Society of the Province of Saxony). 

4243. Kaiserliche Leopoldiua Carolina Akademie der Deutschen 
Naturforscher {Imperial Leopold- Cq^rolus Academy of 
German Naturalists), [iii] 

4245. Konigliches Ober Berg Amt {Eoyal Mining Bureau), [ij 

4247. Konigliche Vereinigte Friedrichs Universitiit Halle -Wit- 
temberg [Bibliothek] ( University Library), [iii] 

4249. Laudwirthschaftlicher Central- Verein fiir die Pro viuz- Sach- 
sen (OewiraZ Agricultural Association for the Province 
of Saxony). [iJ 

4251. Naturforschende Gesellschaft {Naturalists'' Society), [iii] 

4253. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Sachsen und Thiiringen 
{Scientific Association of Saxony and Thuringia). [iii] 

4255. Ornithologischer Central- Verein fiir Sachsen und Thiirin- 
gon {Central Ornithological Association of Saxony and 
Thuringia). [iJ 

4257. Politisch-Oekonomisches Seminar {Politic Economical Sem- 
inary). 

4259. Eedaktion : " Archiv der Pharmacie" (" Pharmaceutical Ar- 
chives "). 

4261. Eedaktion : " Botanische Zeitung" {Botanical Gazette), [i] 

4263. Eedaktion: "DieNatur" [Dr. Karl Miiller] {^' Nature^'), [i] 

4265. Eedaktion: "Zeitschrift fiir Deutsche Philologie" {'■'■Journal 
of German Philology''''). 

4267. Eedaktion : " Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Naturwissen- 
schaften" {Journal of Natural Sciences). [Formerly in 
Berliu.] 

4269. Thiiringisch-Sachsischer [Geschichts- und Alterthums-] 
Verein fiir Erforschung des Vaterliindischen Alter- 
thums und Erhaltung seiner Denkmale {Thuringo-Sax- 
onian \ Historical and Archa'ological] Society for the 
Exploration of National Antiqiuty and the Preservation 
of Antiquarian Monuments), [i] 

4271. Verein der Aerzte im Eegierungsbezirk Merseburg und in 
dem Herzogthum Auhalt {Society of Physicians in the 
District of Merseburg and the Duchy of Anhalt). 

4273. Verein fiir Erdkunde {Geographical Society), [ij 

4275. Verein fiir Eeformations-Geschichte {Society for the History 
of the Reformation). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 173 

Hamburg {Germany). 

4277. Aiitliropologisclie Gesellscbal't [Anthropological Society), [i] 

4279. Bibliothek des Mediciual-Collegiuins (Library of the Medical 
College). 

4281 Blindeii-Austalt [Institution for the Blind), [i] 

4283. Commerz-Bibliotbek [Commercial Library), [iiij 

4285. Deutsche Meteorologische Gesellscbaft [German Meteoro- 
logical Society). 

4287. Geburtshiiltlicbe Gesellscbalt [Gynaecological Society). 

4289. Geograpbiscbe Gesellscbaft [Geographical Society), [i] 

4291. Gesellscbaft fiir Botanik [Botanical Society). 

4293. Gesellscbaft von Fieaiideu der Geograpbie [Society of 
Friends of Geography), [i] 

4295. Handels-Kammer [Chamber of Commerce), [i] 

4297. Jobanueum. fi] 

4299. Museum Godeffroy. [i] 

4301. Natuibistoriscbes Museum [Dr. Pagenstecher] [Natural 
History Museum). 

4303. Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein Hamburg- Altona [Ham- 
bur g-Altona Society of N^atural Sciences), [iii] 

4305. Nord-Deutscbe Seewarte [N'orth German N'aval Observa- 
tory), [i] 

4307. Stadt-Bibliotbek [City Library), [iii] 

4309. Sternwarte [Observatory), [i] 

4311. Tbierscbutz - Verein [Society for the Protection of Ani- 
mals), [i] 

4313. Verein fiir Hamburgisebe Gescbicbte [Society for Ham- 
burg's History), [i] 

4315. Vereiu fiir Handelsfreibeit [Free Trade Association), [i] 

4317. Verein fiir I^aturwissenscbaftlicbe Unterbaltung [Society 
for Scientific Liscourse). [i] 

4319. Verein fiir Oeffentlicbe Gesundbeitspflege [Society for Pub- 
lic Hygiene). 

4321. Vereiu fiir iSTiederdeutscbe Spracbforscbung [Society of Low 
German Linguistics). 

Hamm [Prussia). 

4325. Kouiglicbes Gymnasium [Royal Oymnasium). 

Hanau [Hesse). 

4327. Hanauer Bezirks-Vereiu fui- Hessische Gescbicbte uud 
Laudeskunde [Hanau Society for Hessian History and 
Geography), [i] 

4329. Wetterauer Gesellscbaft fiir die gesammte Naturkunde 
[Wetterau Association for Natural Sciences in Gen- 
eral), [i] 



174 LIST OF FOREIGN COERESPONDENTS. 

Hannover (Prussia). 

4331. Arcbitekten- iind Ingenieur-Verein {Architects^ and Engi- 
neers^ Association), [i] 

4333. Central Miiuzforscher-Vereiu {Central Numismatic Associa- 
tion). 

4335. Geographische Gesellschaft {Geographical Society), [i] 

[Gesammt-Verein der Dentscheu Geschichts- und Alter- 
tbums-Vereiue {Central Uiiion of the German Histori- 
cal and Archaeological Societies).] 

4337. Gesellschaft iiir iiltere Deutsche Geschichtskunde {Society 
of Ancient German History). 

4339. Gesellschaft fiir Mikroskopie {Microscopical Society), [i] 

4341. Gewerbe-Verein fiir die Proviuz-Hanuover {Polytechnic So- 
ciety of the Province of Hannover), [i] 

4343. Hahn'sche Bucbhandlung {Hahri's BooTistore). [i] 

4345. Historiscber Vereiu fiir Niedersachseu {Historical Society 
of Lotcer Saxony), [i] 

4347. Koiiigliche Oefl'entlicbe Bibliothek {Royal Public Library). 
[iii] 

4349. Konigliche Laiidvrirtbschafts Gesellschaft {Royal Agricul- 
tural Society). 

4351. Konigliche Technische Hochscbule {Royal Polytechni- 
cum). [i] 

4353. " Kunst im Gewerbe " {Art in Trade). 

4355. Naturbistorische Gesellschaft {Natural History Society), [i] 

4357. Naturwissenscbattlicbe Gesellsch;jft {Society of Natural 
Sciences). 

4359. Niedersiichsischer Aerzte-Vereins-Bund {Association of the 
Physicians'' Societies of Lower Saxony). 

4361. Vereiu analytiscber Chemiker in Deutschland {Society of 
Analytical Chemists in Germany). 

4363. Verein fiir ofi'entliche Gesimdbeitspflege {Society of Public 
Hygiene). 

Heidelberg {Baden). 

4365. Landwirtbscbaftlicher Bezirks-Verein {Agricultural Soci- 
ety), [i] 

4367. Naturbistorisch-Medicinischer Verein {Society of Natural 
and Medical Sciences), [i] 

4369. Neues Jabrbuch fiir Miueralogie, Geologic und Paleonto- 
logie [Dr. Rosenbuscb] {Neiv Year-book of Mineralogy, 
Geology, and Pakvontology). [i] 

4371. Opbtbalmologiscbe Gesellscbaft {Ophthalmological Society). 

4373. Pbysiologiscbes lustitut der Universitat {Physiological In- 
stitute of the University). 

4375. Universitats-Bibliotbek {University Library), [iii] 

4377. Zoologiscb- Anatomiscbes Institut der Univcrsitiit {Zoologico- 
Anatomical Institute of the University). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 175 

Heilbronn ( Wurtemberg). 

4379. Historiscber Verein {Historical Society). 
4381. " Trrenfreuud " {Friend of the Insane). 
4383. " Memorabilieu." 

Herrnhut {Saxony). 

4385. Herrnhuter Briider-Gemeinscbaft {Moravian Society), [i] 

Hildesheim {Prussia). 

4387. Verein fiir Kunde der Natur und der Kunst im Fursten- 
tbum Hildesbeim und in der Stadt Goslar {Society of 
Natural Sciences and Arts in the Principality of Hildes- 
heim and in the City of Goslar). 

Hohenheim ( Wiirtemherg). 

4389. Koniglicb-Wiirtembergiscbe Land- und Forstwirtbscbaft- 
licbe Akadeuiie {Eoyal Academy of Agriculture and 
Forest Culture), [i] 

Hohenleuben {Saxony). 

4391. Voigtlandiscber Altertbumsfoiscbender Verein (Yoigtland- 
ish Archwological Society), [i] 

Homburg-vor-der-Hohe {Priissia). 

4393. Verein fiir Gescbicbte und Altertbumskunde {Society of 
History and Archaeology). 

Immenstadt {Bavaria). 

[Alpen Landwirtbscbaftlicbe Versuchs - Station {Experi- 
mental Agricultural Station).] 

Ingolstadt {Bavaria). 

4395. Historiscber Verein {Historical Society). 

Insterburg {Prussia). 

4397. Altertbums-Gesellscbaft {Historical Society). 

4399. Landwirtbscbaftlicber Central- Verein fiir Litbauen und 

Masuren {Central Agricultural Society of Lithuania and 

Masuren). [ij 

Janer {Prussia). 

4401. Oekonomiscb-Patriotiscbe Gesellscbaft fiir das Fiirsten- 
thum Scbweidnitz und Jauer {Economic-Patriotic Asso- 
ciation of the Principality of Schiceidnitz and Jauer). [i] 

Jena {Saxe - Weimar). 

4403. Allgemeiuer Deutscber A potbeker- Verein (J7wi?)ersaZ Ger- 
man Apothecaries^ Associatioti). [i] 

4405. AnatoQiiscbes Institut der XTwiversitiit {A7iatomical Insti' 
tute of the University), 



176 I.IST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Jena [Saxe- Weimar) — Continnecl. 

4407. Geograpbiscbe Gesellscbaft I'iir TMiringeu {Geographical 
Society of Thurinfjia). 

4409. Grossherzoglich - Siicbsiscbes Miiieralogiscbes Museum 
{Grand Ducal Mineralogical Museum). 

4411. Jeuaiscbe Zeitscliiift fiir Mediciu uiid Naturwisseiiscbaften 
{Jena Gazette of Medical and Natural Sciences). 

4413. Landwirtbscbaftlicbe Institut (A<7ric?(/,fwra7 J?isfi^wte). [i] 

4415. Mediciuiscb-iS'aturwissenscbaftlicbe Gesellscbaft {Society of 
Medical and Natural Sciences). [Transfers all books to 
tbe University Library.] [i] 

4417. Pbarmaceutiscb-NaturwissenscbaftlicberYerein {Society of 
Pharmacy and Natural Sciences), [i] 

4419. Redaktiou: ''Arcbiv der Pbarmacie" {Archives of Phar- 
macy), [ij 

4421. Eedaktion: " Zeitscbrift fiir Deutscbe Landwirtbe" (Jbwr- 
nal of German Agriculturists), [i] 

4423. Statistiscbes Bureau der Vereinigten Tbiiriugiscben 
Staaten {Statistical Bureau of the United Thuringian 
States), [i] 

4425. Tbiiringer Fiscberei-Vereiu {Thuringian Fishery Associa- 
tion), [i] 

4427. Universitats-Bibliotbek ( University Library), [i] 

4429. Verein fiir Tbiiringiscbe Gescbicbte uud Alterthuius- 
kunde {Society of Thuringian History and Archaeol- 
ogy), [i] 

Eahla {Saxe-Altenhurg). 

4431. Gescbicbts- und Altertbumsforschender- Vereiu zu Kabla 
und Eoda {Kahla and Boda Society of History and Ar- 
choiology). 

Kaiserslautern {Bavaria). 

4433. Verein pfliilziscber Aerzte {Association of Physicians of the 
Palatinate). 

Karlsruhe {Baden). 

4435. Allgemeiuer Laudes- Verein der Badiscben Aerzte {General 

Association of the Physicians of Baden). 
4437. Badiscbe Geograpbiscbe Gesellscbaft {Baden Geographical 

Society). 
4439, " Botaniscber Jabresbericbt " {Botanical Annual). 
4441. Central-Bureau fiir Meteorologie und Hydrograpbie (C'ch- 

tral Bureau of Meteorology and Hydrography). |i] 
4443. Gewerbe- Verein {Volytcchnical Society), [i] 
4445. Grossberzogiicb-Badiscbes Couservatorium der Altertbii- 

mer {Baden Grand Ducal (conservatory of Anfiqui' 

ties), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN C0KKE6P0NDENTS.. • 177 

Karlsruhe (Baden) — Contiuned. 

■i4-i7. Grossherzoglicli-Badisches Miuisterium des Aeusseren 
{Baden Grand Ducal Foreign Office). 

4449. Grossberzoglicb-Badisches Miuisterium fur Ju.stiz, Kultus, 
und Uuterrieht {Baden Grand Ducal Department of 
Justice, WorsJiip, and Education). 

4451. Grossherzoglich-Badische Polytechniscbe Scliule {Baden 
Grand Ducal Polytechnic School), [i] 

4453. Grossherzoglich-Badische Regierung {Baden Grand Ducal 
Government), [i] 

4455. Grossberzoglich-Badisches Statistisches Bureau des Haii- 
dels-Ministeriums {Baden Grand Ducal Statistical Bu- 
reau of the Department of Commerce), [i] 

4457. Grossherzogiich - Badisches Topographisches Bureau 
{Grand Ducal Topographic Bureau). 

4459. Grossherzogliche Ceutral-Stelle fiir die Laudwirthschaft 
{Grand Ducal Bureau of Agriculture), [i] 

4401. Grossherzogliches Gymnasium {Grand Ducal Gymnasi- 
um), [i] 

4403. Grossherzogliche Hot- und Landes-Bibliothek {Grand 
Ducal and National Library), [iii] 

4405. Handels-Kammer {Chamber of Commerce), [i] 

[Meteorologische Office. (See Central-Bureau fiir Meteor- 
ology, etc.)] 

4467. Naturwisseuschaftlicher Verein {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 

4469. Ober Direction der Wasser- und Strasseu-Bauten {Depart- 
ment of Public Works). 

4471. Sternwarte {Observatory), [i] 

4473. Verein Badischer Thierarzte {Baden Society of Veterinary 
Surgeons). 

4475. Wissenschaftlicher Prediger- Verein der Evangelischeu 
Geistlichkeit Badens {Scientific Society of Evangelic 
Ministers). 

4477. " Zeitschrift fiir Wisseuschaftliclie Geographic " {Journal 
of Scientific Geography). 

Kassel {Prussia). 

4479. " Botauisches Central-Blatt " {Botanical Journal). 
4481. Kasseler Geometer-Vereiu {Surveyors^ Society). 
4483. Landwirthschaftlicher Central- Verein {Central Agricultural 
Association). [Transfers all books to the Standische 
Landes-Bibliothek.] 
4485. "Malacozoologische Blatter" (J/a/flCoZor/ZcaZ Jownm^). [i] 
4487. " Paleontographica " {Paleontographical Journal). 
4489. Stiiudische Landes-Bibliothek {National Library). [iii[ 
H. Mis, 15 U 



178 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Kassel (Prussia) — Continued. 

4491. Yerein fiir Hessische Geschicbte und Landeskunde [Society 

of Hessian History and Geography), [i] 
4493. Verein fiir Naturkunde {Natural History iSociety). [i] 

Kiel (Prussia). 

4495. " Astronomische Naclirichten " (Astronomical Ifeips). 

4497. Deutscher Samariter- Verein (German Samaritan Associa- 
tion). 

4501. Gesellschaft fiir Schleswig-HolsteinLaueuburgiscbe Ge- 
schicbte (Society for the History of Slesiciclc-Holstein- 
Lauenhurg). [i] 

4503. Gesellschaft fiir Kieler Stadtgeschichte (Local Historical 
Society). 

4505. Kouigliche Sternwarte (Royal Observatory), [i] 

4507. Ministerial-Kommission zur wisseuscbaftliclien Untersu- 
cbuug der Deutscben Meere (Ministerial Commission 
for the Scientific Exploration of the German Seas), [i] 

4509. Naturwisseuscbaftlicber Verein fiir Scbleswig-Holstein 
(SleswicJc- Hoi stein Society of Natural Sciences), [ij 

4511. Provinzial Blinden-Anstalt fiir Scbleswig-Holstein (Sles- 
wicTi-Holstein Institution for the Blind), [i] 

4513. Eedaktion : ^^ Qchnlzeitnng^^ (School Gazette), [i] 

4515. Scbleswig-Holsteinscber Landwirtbscbaftlicber General- 
Verein (Sleswiclc-Holstein Agricultural Association), [i] 

4517. Scbleswig-Holsteinscbes Museum vaterliindiscber Alter- 
tb timer (Sleswiclc-Holstein Museum of N ational Antiqui- 
ties), [i] 

4519. Universitats-Bibliotbek [University I/ihrary). [iii] 

4521. Zoologiscbes Institut der Universitat (Zoological Institute 
of the University), [i] 

4523. Verein Scbleswig-Holsteinscber Aerzte (Physicians^ Asso- 
ciation of Slesiciclc-Holstein). 

4525. Verein fiir Geograi)liie und Naturwisseuscbaften [Associa- 
tion of Geography and Natural Sciences). 

Klausthal (Prussia). 

4527. Berg-Akademie (Miniiig Academy), [i] 

[Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein. (See Berg- und Hiitten- 
mauniscber Verein.)] 
4529. Berg- und Hiitteniuanniscber Verein "Maja" [formerly 
Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein] (Mining Society ^'■Ma- 

i«"). [i] 

Koblenz (Prussia). 

4531. Naturbistorischer Verein [Natural History Society), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 179 

Koburg {SaaeCohurg-Gotha). 

4533. Deutsclier Geometer-Vereiii {German Surveyors' Society). 
4535. Aiitbropologischer Vereiu {Anthropological Society). 
4537. Kunst- mid Gewerbe-Verein {Society for Art and Trade), [i] 
[Vereiu fiir Natuikuudo im Herzogthuiu Sachseu {Society 

of Natural Sciences in the Duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha). 

(Defunct.)] 
4539. Vereiu fiir Wetterkunde {Meteorological Society). 

Koln {Prussia). 

4541. Gesellschaft fiir Eheiuisclie Geschichtskunde {Society for 

Rhenish History). 
[Historischer Vereiu fiir den !Niederrhein {Historical Society 

of the Loiver Rhine). (Defunct.)] 
4545. Eedaktion : " Correspondenz-Blatt des Niederrheinischen 

Vereins fiir Oeftentliche Gesuudheitspflege" {Organ of 

the Nether -Rhenish Society of Pnhlic Hygiene), [i] 
4547. Eedaktion : " Woclienschrift fiir Astronomic und Meteoro- 

logie" ( Weekly Journal of Astronomy and Meteorology). 

Konigsberg-in-Preussen {Prussia). 

4549. Alterthums-Gesellschaft " Prussia " {Archaeological Society 
'■'■ Prussia''''). 

4551. Fisherei-Vereiu fiir die Provinz Preussen {Fishery Associ- 
ation of the Province of Prussia), [i] 

4553. Konigliche [Ostpreussische] Physikalisch-Oekonomische 
Gesellschaft {Royal Physico-Economical Society), [iii] 

4555. Ostpreussischer Laudwirthschaftlicher Gentral - Verein 
{Central Agricultural Society of East Prussia), [i] 

4557. Preussischer Provinzial-Verein fiir den Blinden-Unterricht 
{Prussian Provincial Society for the Instruction of the 
Blind), [i] 

4559. Eedaktion : " Land- und Forstwirthschaftliche Zeitung" 
{Agricultural and Forestry Gazette). 

4561. Universitats-Bibliotliek ( University Library), [iii] 

4563. Universitats-Sternwarte {University Observatory), [i] 

4565. Vereiu fiir die Gescbichte von Ost und West Preussen {As- 
sociation for the History of Fast and West Prussia). 

Konstanz {Baden). 

4567. Miinsterbau- Vereiu {Cathedral Building Society.) 
4569. Wesseubergische Stadt-Bibliothek {Wessenherg City Li- 
brary) . [i] 

K6riiik {near Posen, Prussia). 

4571. Biblioteca K6rui9ka {KornicTc Library), [iii] 

Lahr {Baden). 

4573. " Zeitsclirift fiir Geograpbie " {Geographical Gazette). 



180 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Landshut (Bavaria). 

4575. Botauischer Verein (Botanical Society), [i] 
4577. Historischer Verein fiir Niederbaiern (Historical /Society of 
Loicer Bavaria), [i] 

Lauingen (Bavaria). 

4579. Verein fiir Naturwissenscliaftliche Zwecke (Society of Nat- 
ural Sciences), [i] 

Leipzig (Saxony). 

4581. Dr. Felix Fliigel [39 Sidonien Strasse] (Agent of the Smith- 
sonian Institution), [iii] 

4583. Astronomische Gesellschaft (Astronomical Society), [i] 

4585. Borsen-Verein der Deutschen Buchhiindler (Exchange Soci- 
ety of the German Boolcsellers). 

4587. F. A. Brockhaus Verlags-Buchhandlung (F. A. Broclhaus' 
Publishing Honse). [iiij 

4589. Central-Museum iur Volkerkunde (Central Museum of Eth- 
nology), [i] 

4591. Central- Verein Deutscher Zahnarzte (Central Association 
of German Bentists). [i] 

4593. Central-Verein fiir Homoopathische Aerzte Deutschland 
(Central Society of Hotnoeopathic Physicians). 

4595. Deutsche Gesellschaft zur Erforschung vaterlandischer 
• Sprache und Alterthiimer (Society for the Exploration 
. of the German Language and Archceology). 
[Deutsche Morgenlandische Gesellschaft. (To be addressed 
in Halle a. d. S.] 

4597. Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpen-Verein, Section 
Leipzig (Leipsic Section, German and Austrian Alpine 
Association). 

4599. Deutscher Verein zur Erforschung Palestina's (German 
Society for the Exploratio7i of Palestine). 

4601. Wilhelm Eugelmann Verlags-Buchhandlung ( William En- 
gelmann''s Publishing House), [iii] 

4G03. Fiirstlich Jablonowski'sche Gesellschaft der Wissen- 
schaften (Prince of Jahlonowshvs Society of Sci- 
ences), [i] 

4605. Geologische Landes-Untersuchung des Konigreichs Sach- 
sen (Geological Exploration of the Kingdom of Saxony). 

[i] 
4607. Gesellschaft fiir Geburtshiilfe (Society of Obstetrics). 

4609. Handels-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce), [i] 

4611. Koniglich -Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften 

(Royal Saxon Society of Sciences), [iii] 
4613. Landwirthschaftlicher Kreis- Verein (Agricultural Soci- 
ety), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 181 

Leipzig [Saxony) — Continued. 

4615. Landwirtliscliaftliche Institut cler CTuiversitat [Agricult- 
ural Institute of the University), [i] 
[Leipziger Zweigvereiu der Gesellscliaft fiir Verbreitung 
von Volksbildung [Leijjsic Branch of the Society for 
the Diffusion of the Knowledge among People). (See 
Yerein fiir Volkswohl.)] 

4619. Medicinische Gesellschaft [Medical Society), [i] 

[Meteorologisches Institut. (Transferred to Chemnitz.)] 

4621. Mineralogisches Museum [Mineralogical Musemn). [ij 

4623. Naturforschende Gesellschaft [NaturalistH' Society), [i] 

4625. Oeflentliche Handels- Lehr-Anstalt [Public Commercial 
School). \\\ 

4627. Physiologische Anstalt [Physiological Institute), [i] 

4629. Polytechnische Gesellschaft [Polytechnical Society), [i] 

4631. Kedaktion : " Aerztliches Vereins-Blatt fiir Deutschland " 
* [Journal of Medical Societies in Germany), [i] 

4633. Eedaktion: "Annalen der Chemieund Pharmacie"(Awwa?* 
of Chemistry and Pharmacy). 

4635. Eedaktion: "Archiv der Mathematik und Physik" [Ar- 
chives of Mathematics and Physics), [ij 

4637. Eedaktion: "Archiv fiir Anatomie, Physiologic und wis- 
senschaftliche Medicin'- [Veit u. Co.] (Archives of Anat- 
omy., Physiology^ and Medical Sciences). \\\ 

4639. Eedaktion: "Archiv fiir Sachsische Geschichte" (J.rc/iiwe« 
of Saxon History). 

4641. Eedaktion : " Aus Allen Welttheileu" [^^From all Parts of 
the Globe"). 

4643. Eedaktion: "Berg- und HtittenmannischeZeitung" [Mining 
and Smelting Journal). 

4645. Eedaktion : " Deutsche Vierteljahrsschrift fiir Zahnheil- 
kunde" [German Quarterly Journal of Dentistry). 

4647. Eedaktion: " Deutsches Archiv fiir Klinische Medicin" 
[German Archives of Clinical Medicine), [i] 

4649. Eedaction: " Gaea, Natur und Leben" [Gcea^ Nature and 

Life). 

4651. Eedaktion : " Internationale Zeitschrift fiir Allgemeine 
Sprachwissenschaft" [International Gazette of Lin- 
guistics). 

4653. Eedaktion: "Jahrbiicher fiir Wissenschaftliche Botanik" 
[Annals of Scientific Botany), [i] 

4655. Eedaktion : " Kosmos," Zeitschrift fiir Naturwissenschaft 
[Kosmos, Journal of Natural Sciences). 

4657. Eedaktion: " Magazin fiir die Literatur des Auslands" 
[Magazine for the Literature of Foreign Countries), [i] 

4650. Eedaktion: " Morphologisches Jahrbucli" [Morphological 

Annual). 



182 L,1ST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Leipzig (Saxony) — Continued. 

4661. Kedaktion: " Neue Deutsche Gewerbe - Zeitung " {New 

German Industrial Gazette). 
4663. Redaktion : " Neue Jahrbiicher fiir Philologie und Peda- 

gogik" {New Annual of Philology and Pedagogy). 
4665. Eedaktion : " Poggeudorff's Beiblatter zu den Anualen 

der Physik und Chemie" {Poggcndorff^s Supplements to 

the Annals of Physics and Chemistry), [i] 
[Eedaktion: " Poly technisclies Central-Blatt " {Polytechnic 

Central Gazette). (Discontinued.)] 
4667. Redaktion : " Repertorium der Technischen, Matbemati- 

scben, und Naturwissenscbaftlicben Literatur" {Be- 

pertory of the Technical, Mathematical, and Natural 

Science Literature). 
4669. Redaktion : " Zeitscbrift fiir ^gyptiscbe Spracb- und Al- 

tertbumskunde" {Journal of Egyptian Linguistics and 

Archaeology). 
4671. Redaktion : " Zeitscbrift fiir Krystallograpbie und Mine- 

ralogie" {Journal of Crystallography and Mineralogy). 
4673. Redaktion : '' Zeitscbrift fiir wissenscbaftlicbe Zoologie" 

{Journal of Scientific Zoology), [i] 
4675. Stadt-Bibliotbek((7tf?/Xi&mr2/). [iii] 
4677. Siiclisiscber lugenieur- und Arcbitekten-Yerein {Society of 

Saxon Engineers and Architects). 
4679. Stiidtiscbe Real-Scbule {City "BeaV^ School), [i] 
4681. Stadtiscbes Gymnasium {City Gymnasium), [i] 
4683. Statistiscbes Bureau {Statistical Bureau), [i] 
4685. Taubstummen-Anstalt {Institute for the Deaf and Dumb), [i] 
4687. Universitiits-Bibliotbek {University Library). [Does not 

want sucb publications as are sent to tbe Royal Saxon 

Society of Sciences.] 
4689. Universitats-Sternwarte {University Observatory). [Trans- 
fers books to tbe Royal Saxon Meteorological Institute.] 
4691. Verein der Bucbbandler {Bool'sellers^ Association). 
4693. Verein fiir Antbropologie {Anthropological Society), [i] 
4695. Yerem fiir 'Erdknude {Geographical Society), [i] 
4697. Verein fiir die Gescbicbte Leipzig's {Society for the History 

of Leipsic). [i] 

4699. Verein fur Yolkskindergs^rten {Society of Kindergarten), [i] 

4700. Verein fiir Volkswobl {Society for the Welfare of the People). 

[Formerly: Leipziger Zweigverein der Gesellscb aft fiir 
Verbreituug von Volksbildung.] [i] 

4701. Zoologiscber Anzeiger {Zoological Journal), [i] 

Leisnig. 

4703. Gescbicbts- und Altertlmms- Verein {Historical and Archce- 
ological Society), [ij 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 183 

Lieguitz {Prussia). 

4705. Laudwirtbschaftlicber Verein {Agricultural Society), [i] 

Lindau {Bavaria). 

[Verein fiir die Geschichte des Bodensees uud seiner Um- 

gebung. (See Friedrichshafeu.)] 
LUbeck. 

4707. Geograpbiscbe Gesellscbaft {GeograpJdcal Society). 

4709. Gesellscbaft zur Beforderuiig gemeinniitziger Tbatigkeit 

{Society for the Advancement of Useful Industry), [i] 

4711. Hansiscbor Geschichts-Yevem {Eanse Historical Society). 

471.3. Naturbistoriscbes Museum {Museum of Natural History), [i] 

4715. Stadt-Bibliotbek {City Library), [i] 

4717. Verein fiir Liibeckiscbe Gescbicbte und Alterthumskunde 

{Society of LUbecJc History and Archceology). [i] 

Llineburg {Prussia). 

[Altertbums-Verein. (Dissolved.)] 
4719. Museum-Verein {Museum Society), [i] 
4721. Naturwisseuscbaftlicber Verein {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 
Luxembourg. 

4723. Institut Luxembourgeois, Section Historique {Institute of 
Luxemburg, Historical Division), [ij 

4725. Institut Luxembourgeois, Section des Sciences Nat^irelles 
et Matb6matiques {Luxemburg Institute, Division of 
Natural Sciences and Mathematics), [i] 

4727. Soci^t6 de Botanlque du Grand-Ducbe de Luxembourg 
{Botanical Society of the Grand Duchy of Luxem- 
burg), [i] 

Magdeburg {Prussia). 

4729. Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), fi] 
4731. Verein fiir die Gescbicbte und Altertbumskunde des Her- 
zogthums und Erzstifts Magdeburg {Magdeburg Society 
of History and Archaeology). 
4733. Verein fiir Landwirtbscbaftlicbe Wetterkunde in der Pro- 
vinz Sacbsen, den Sacbsiscben Grossberzog-, Herzog- 
und Fiirstentbilmern, den Herzogtbiimern Anbalt 
und Braunscbweig, und der Uckermark {Association 
of Agricultural Meteorology, &g.). 
4735. Verein fiir Oefientlicbe Gesundbeitspflege {Association of 
Public Hygiene). 
Mainz {Hesse). 

4737. Grossberzoglicbe Handels-Kammer {Grand Ducal Chamber 

of Commerce), [i] 
4739. Verein zur Erforscbung der Ebeiniscben Gescbicbte und 

Altertbiiiner {Society for Research in Rhenish History 

and Archwology). [iJ 



184 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Mannheim {Baden). 

4741. Grossherzogiiches Gymnasium {Grand Ducal Gymnasi- 
um), [i] 
[Stern warte {Observatory). (In Karlsrulie.)] 
4743, Verein fur Naturkunde {Society of Natural Sciences), [i] 

Marburg {Prussia). 

4745. Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesammten ]S'aturwis- 

senschaften {Society for the Advancement of Natural 
Sciences), [iii] 

4746. Stern warte {Observatory). 

4747. TJuiYersitats-Bibliothek {University Library), [iii] 

4749. Verein Kurliessischer Thierarzte {Society of Veterinary Sur- 
geons). 

Marienburg {Prussia). 

4751. Historischer Verein fiir den Eegierungs-Bezirk Marien- 
werder {Historical Association for the District of 
Marienwerder). 
4753. Taubstummen-Austalt {Institution for the Deaf and Dumb). 

Meersburg {Baden). 

4755. Grossherzoglich - Badische Allgemeine Taubstummen- 
Anstalt {Grand Ducal Institute for the Deaf and 
Dumb), [i] 

Meiningen {Saxe-Meiningeyi). 

4757. Hennebergischer Alterthumsforschender Verein {Henne- 

berg Archceological Society), [i] 
4759. Herzogliche Schloss-Bibliothek {Ducal Lihrary). 
4761. Herzogliches Statistisches Bureau {Ducal Statistical Bu- 

reati). 
4763. LandwirthschaftlicLer Verein {Agricultural Society). 
4765. Naturforscbender- Verein {Naturalists' Society). 
4767. Stadt-Bibliothek {Oity Ubrary). 
4769. Verein fur Pomologie und Gartenbau {Pomological and 

Horticultural Society), [ij 

Meissen {Saxony). 

4771. Gesellschaft "Isis" ("J6ts" ^Soctef?/)- fi"! 
4773. Verein fiir die Geschichte der Stadt Meissen {Society for 
the History of the City of Meissen). 

Metz {Lorraine). 

4775. Academic de Metz {Academy of Metz). [iii] 
4777. Biblioth^que de Metz {Oity Library). 

4779. Societe d'Arch^ologie et d'Histoire [formerly at Briey, 
France] {Archmological and Historical Society), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 185 

Metz {Lorraine) — Continued. 

4781. Soci6t6 d'Histoire Naturelle de Metz [Natural History So- 
ciety of Metz). [i] 

4783. Soci6t6 des Sciences M^dicales du D^partement de la Mo- 
selle {Society of 3Iedical Sciences of the Department of 
tJie Moselle), [i] 

4785. Verein f'iir Erdkunde {Geographical Society), [i] 

Molln in Lauenburg {Prussia). 

4787. Verein fiir die Gescbichte des Herzogtbums Lauenburg 
{Society for the History of the Duchy of Lauenburg). 

Miilhausen {Alsace). 

4789. Societe Industrielle {Industrial Society), [i] 

Miincheberg {Prussia). 

4791. Verein fiir Heimatbskunde {Historical Society). 

, Miinchen {Bavaria). 

4793. Altertbums- Verein {Archceological Society). 

4795. Baieriscbe Gartenbau-Gesellscbaft {Bavarian Horticultural 
Society), [i] 
[Deutscbe Gesellscbaft fiir Antbropologie, &c. (See Miin- 
cbener Gesellscbaft, &c.)] 

4797. Baieriscbe Numismatiscbe Gesellscbaft {Bavarian Numis- 
matic Society). 

4799. Geograpbiscbe Gesellscbaft {Geographical Society), [i] 

,4801. Hanpt-Conservatorium der Armee: Central-Bibliotbek des 
Heeres {Central Library of the Army). [1] 

4803. Historiscber Verein fiir Oberbaiern {Historical Society of 
Upper Bavaria), [i] 

4805. Koniglicb-Baieriscbe Akademie der Wissenscbaften {Royal 
Bavarian Academy of Sciences), [iii] 

4807. Koniglicb-Baieriscbes Statistiscbes Bureau {Royal Bava- 
rian Statistical Bureau), [i] 

4811. Koniglicb - Baieriscbe Meteorologiscbe Central - Anstalt 
{Royal Bavarian Central Meteorological Bureau), [i] 

4813. Koniglicb-Baieriscbe Tecbniscbe Hocbscbule {Royal Bava- 
rian Technical High School), [i] 

4815. Koniglicher Botaniscber Garten {Royal Botanical Gar- 
den), [ij 

4817. Konigiicber General-Quartier-Meister-Stab {Royal Quarter- 
master-GeneraVs Department), [i] 

4819. Koniglicbe Hof- und Staats-Bibliotbek {Royal and State 
Library), [iii] 

4821. Koniglicbes Staats-Herbariuni {Royal Herbarium). [iJ 

4823. Kunigli(;lies Staats - JMinisterium {Royal Department of 
State). [Deposits books witb Koyal Library.] 



186 LIST OF FOREIGN COREESPONDENTS. 

Miinchen {Bavaria) — Continued. 

4825. Konigliche Sternwarte {Royal Observatory), [i] 

4827. Konigliche T'duh»tummeu- Austsdt {Boyal Bistitution for the 

Deaf and Dumb), [ij 
4829. Kouigliclies Topogi aphisclies Bureau {Royal Topographical 

Bureau). 
4831. Landwirtlischaftlicher Verein {Agricultural Society), [i] 
[Meteorologisches System. (See Koniglich Baierische Me- 

teorologische Central- Anstalt.)] 
4833. Ministerium des Oefifentliclien Unterrichts {Department of 

Public Instruction). [Deposits all donations with the 

Eoyal Library.] [iJ 
4835. Miinchener Gesellschaft fUr Anthropologie, Ethnologic, 

uud Urgeschichte {Munich ^Society of Anthropology^ 

Ethnology^ and Primitive History), [i] 
4837. Polytechnischer Verein {Polytechnic Society), [i] 
4841. Eedaktion: "Das Ausland". [Formerly in Stuttgart.] 

[i] 
4843. Eedaktion : " Baiei isches Industrie- und Gewerbe-Blatt" 

{Bavarian Industrial Gazette). 

4845. Eedaktion : " Zeitschrift fiir Biologie" {Biological Jour- 
nal), [i] 

4847. Universitats-Bibliothek ( University Library), [iii] 

MUnden {Prussia). 

4849. Koniglicb-Preussische Forst-Akademie {Royal Prussian 
Forest Academy), [i] 

Miinster {Prussia). 

4851. Landwirthscbaftlicher Provinzial - Verein fiir Westfalen 
und Lippe {Provincial Agricultural Society for West- 
phalia and lAppe). [i] 

4853. Polytechnischer Verein {Polytechnic Society). 

4855. Provinzial-Verein fiir Wissenschaft uud Kunst {Provincial 
Society of Science and Art), [i] 

4857. Sternwarte {Observatory), [i] 

4859. Verein fiir die Geschichte und Alterthiimer Westphalens 
{Society of Westphalian History and Antiquities), [i] 

Neisse {Prussia). 

4861. Katholisches Gymnasium {Catholic Gymnasium), [i] 

[Philomatische Gesellschaft. (See Wissenschaftliche Ge- 
sellschaft.)] 
4863. Eealschule {''ReaV^ School), [i] 

4865. Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft "Philomatie" {^^PhilomaUe^^ 
Scientific Society), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 187 

Neu Brandenburg {Mecklenhurg). 

[ Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschicbte in Mecklenburg. 
(See Giistrow.)] 

Neustadt (Prussia). 

["Pollichia." (See Durkbeim.)] 

Neustadt-Eberswalde [Prussia). 

48G7. Koniglicbe Forst-Akademie (Royal Forest Academy). 

Nordhausen (Prussia). 

4869. Wisseuscbaftlicber Verein (Scientific Society), [i] 

NUrnberg (Bavaria). 

4871. Baieriscbes Gewerbe-Museum (Bavarian Polytechnic Mu- 
seum), [i] 
4873. Germaniscbes Museum ((rerwttmaii Jfwsewwj). [i] 
4875. Gewerbe- Verein (Polytechnic Society), [i] 
4877. Historiscber Verein (Historical Society). [\\ 
4879. Naturbistoriscbe Gesellscbaft (Natural History Society), [iiij 

Offenbach (Baden). 

4881. Grossberzoglicbe Handels-Kammer (Grand Ducal Chamber 

of Commerce), [i] 
4883. Yerein fiir l^Aturkunde (Society of Natural Sciences.) [i] 

Oldenburg (Oldenburg). 

4885. Gewerbe-und Handel s- Verein (Society of Trade and Com- 
merce), [i] 
4887. Grossberzoglicbe Bibliotbek (Grand Ducal Library), [iii] 

Osnabriick (Prussia). 

4889. Historiscber Verein (Historical Society), [i] 
4891. Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein (Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 

Passau (Bavaria). 

4893. Naturbistoriscber Verein (Natural History Society), [i] 
4895. Praktiscbe Gartenbau-Gesellscbaft in Baiern (Practical 
Horticultural Society of Bavaria), [i] 

Plauen (Saxony). 

4897. Gymnasium uud Eealscbule (Gymnasium and "EeaV^ 

School), [i] 
4899. Verein fiir Natur-und Heilkunde (Society of Natural and 
Medical Sciences), [i] 
Posen (Prussia). 

4901. Gesellscbaft der Freunde der Wissenscbaften (Society of 
the Friends of Science), 



188 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Posen (Prussia) — Con tiiiued. 

4903. Historische Gesellschaft fiir die Provinz Posen {Historical 
Society of the Province of Posen). 

4905. Landwirthschaftlicher Provinzial-Verein {Agricultural Dis- 
tricts^ Society), [i] 

4907. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 

4909. Stadtisclie Eealschule {City «Eeal" School), [i] 

Potsdam (Prussia). 

4911. Astro Physikalisches Observatorium (Astro-Physical Ob- 
servatory), [i] 

4913. Landwirthschaftlicher Provincial -Verein fiir die Mark 
Brandenburg und die Nieder Lausitz (Agricultural So- 
ciety for the Province of Brandenburg and Nether Lusa- 
% tia). [May also be addressed at Prenzlau.] [i] 

4915. Verein zur Beforderung des Seidenbaues in der Mark Bran- 
denburg und der Nieder Lausitz (Society for the Pro- 
motion of the Silk- Worm Culture in the Province of Bran- 
denburg and in Wether Lusatia). [Transfer their books 
to the Landwirthschaftliche Provincial- Verein.] 

Proskau (Prussia). 

4917, Landwirthschaftliche Akademie (Agricultural Academy), [i] 

Quedlinburg (Prussia). 

4919. Allgemeine Berg- und Hiittenmannische Zeitung (Mining 
and Smelting Journal). 

Rastadt (Baden). 

4921. Grossherzogliches Gymnasium (Grand Ducal Gymna- 
sium), [i] 

Ravensburg ( Wilrtemherg). 

4923. Deutscher Pomologen- Verein (German Pomological So- 
ciety), [i] 

Regenshurg (Bavaria). 

4925. Historischer Verein fiir die Oberpfalz (Historical Society of 
the Upper Palatinate), [i] 

4927. Koniglich-Baierischer Apotheker- Verein (Royal Bavarian 
Apothecaries Association), [ij 

4929. Konigliche Baierische Botanische Gesellschaft (Royal Bava- 
rian Botanical Society), [i] 

4931. Konigliche Baierische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften 
(Royal Bavarian Society of Sciences). 

4933. Zoologisch-Mineralogischer Verein (Zoological Mineralogi- 
cal Association), [i] 



J 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 180 

Reichenbach {Saxony). 

4935. Voigtliindischer Verein fur Xaturkunde ( VaiyUand Society 
of Natural Science), [i] 

Reutlingen ( Wilrteniberg). 

4937. Pomologisches Institut {Pomological Institute), [i] 

Roda {Saxe-Altenhurg). 

4939. ThiiYmger 'FmcheTei-Yerem{Thuringian Fishery Society), [i] 

Rostock (MecTcIenhurg). 

[Mecklenburgiscber Patriotischer Yerein (MecMenburg Pa- 
triotic Society).] 
4943. Universitats-Bibliothek ( University Library), [iii] 

Schwabisch Hall. (See Hall.) 

Schwerin (MecTclenburg). 

[Grossherzogliche Laudes- Vermessungs-Kommissiou. Dis- 
solved. Books transferred to Grossherzogliche Eegie- 
riings-Bibliothek.] 
4945. Grossherzogliche Eegierimgs-Bibliothek(G^raw<ZjDMm? Gov- 
ernment Library), [i] 
4947. Grossherzogliches Statistisches Bureau (Grand Dueal Sta- 
tistical Bureau), [i] 
t4949. Verein fiir Mecklenburgische Geschichte und Alterthums- 
kunde (Society for the History and Archaeology of Meck- 
lenburg], [ij 

Siegmaringen (Prussia). 

4951. Oentral-Stelle des Vereins zur Beforderung der Land- 
wirthschaft und der Gewerbe in Hohenzollern (So- 
ciety for the Promotion of Agriculture and the Trades in 
Hohenzollern). [i] 

Sondershausen (Schwarzburg). 

4953. Botanischer Verein fur das Nordliche Thiiringen (Botanical 

Society in Northern Thuringia). 
4955. Fiirstliche Eealschule (^'Beal" School), [i] 
4957. Fiirstliches Gymnasium (Gymtiasium). [i] 
4959. Fiirstlich Schwarzburgische Ministerial-Canzlei (Ghancelry 

of the Ministry). 
4961. Verein ziir Beforderung der Landwirthschaft (Society for 

the Promotion of Agriculture), [i] 

Speier (Bavaria). 

4963. Historischer Verein fiir Eheinbaiern (Historical Society of 

Rhenish Bavaria), [i] 

Stade (Prussia). 

4905. Verein fiir Geschichte und Altcrthiimer (Historical and 
Archwological Society), ^i] 



190 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Stettin (Prussia). 

4967. Eotomologischer Yerein {Entomological Society), [iii] 
4969. Gesellscbaft fiir Pommerscbe Gescbichte uud Alterthums- 
kunde {Society of Pommeranian History and Archae- 
ology), [ij 
4971. Eedaktion: "Deutsche Fischerei-Zeitung" {German Fish- 
eries Gazette). 

Strassburg (Alsace). 

4973. Bibliotbfeque Muuicipale (Municipal Library), [iii] 

4975. Kaiserlicbe Universitats- imd Laudes-Bibliotbek (Imperial 

University and National Library), [iii] 
4977. Kommission fiir die Geologiscbe Landes-Untersucbung 

von Elsass-Lotbringen (Geological Commission of Al- 
sace-Lorraine). 
4979. Mus6e d'flistoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum). [iJ 
4981. Soci6t6 pour la Conservation des Monuments bistoriques 

d' Alsace (Society for the Preservation of Historical 

Monuments of Alsace), fi] 
4983. Soci<^t6 des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts de la Basse 

Alsace (Society of Sciences, Agriculture, and Arts, of 

Lower Alsace), [iii] 
[Society des Sciences Naturelles de Strasbourg. Dissolved.] 
4985. Stern warte der Kaiserlicben V niversitat (Observatory of the 

Imperial University), [i] 
4987. Zoologiscb-Zootomiscbes Institut der Universitat (Zootom- 

ical Ijistitute of the University). 

Strelitz (MecMenburg). 

[Verein der Freunde der Naturgescbicbte (Society of the 
Friends of Natural History). (See Giistrow.)] 

Stuttgart { Wiirtemberg). 

4989. Seine Majestat der Konig von Wiirtemberg (His Majesty 
the King of Wiirtemberg). [i] 
[American Public Library. Transferred to Frankfurt 
a. M.] 
4991. Antbropologiscbe Ge%Q\\9,c\).2dt (Anthropological Society), [i] 
4993. Central-Leitung des Wobltbatigkeits-Yereins fiir Wiirtem- 
berg (Central Board of the Charitable Society of Wiir- 
temberg). [i] I 

4995. Gartenbau-Gesellschaft "Flora" (^^ Flora^^ Horticultural 

Society.) [i] 
4997. Gesellscbaft fiir die Weinverbesserung in Wiirtemberg 

(Society for the Improvement of Wine-culture in WUr- 

temberg). [iJ 
4999. Gewerbe-Verein (Polytechnic Society), [i] 

\ 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 191 

Stuttgart ( Wiirtcmherg) — Continued. 

5001. Heilgymnastisclies Institiit {Movement-cure Institute), [i] 

5003. Konijjliclie Central Stelle fiir Gewerbe iind Handel {Royal 
Central Bureau of Trade and Commerce), [i] 

5005. Konigliclie Central-Stelle fiir die Landwirthscbaffc {Royal 
Central Bureau of Agriculture), [i] 

5007. Kouigliches Finauz-Ministerium {Royal Finance Depart- 
ment). 

5009. Konigliche Forst-Direction {Royal Bureau of Forests). 

5011. Konigliches Haus- und Staats-Archiv {Royal and National 
Archives), [ij 

5013. Konigliches Justiz-Ministerium {Royal Department of Jus- 
tice). 

5015. Konigliches Ministerium der Auswartigen Angelegenheiten 
{Royal Foreign Office). 

5017. Konigliches Ministerium des Innern {Interior Department). 

5019. Konigliches Ministerium des Kirchen- und Schulwesens 
{Royal Department of Church and Education). 

5021. Konigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek {Royal Public Library). 
[iii] 

5023. Konigliches Polvtechnikum {Royal Polytechnic Institute). 

[i] 
[Konigliches Staats-Archiv. (See Konigliches Haus- und 

Staats-Archiv. ) ] 

5025. Konigliches Statistisches Landes Amt {Royal Statistical 
Bureau), [i] 
[Redaktion : "DasAusland" — in Mtinchen.] 

5027. Eedaktion : " Kosmos " {Kosmos). 

5029. Eedaktion: " Poly technisches Journal" {PolytechnicalJour- 
nal). 

5031. Redaktion : "Ueber Land und Meer." 

5033. Stuttgarter Aerztlicher Verein {Physicians'' Society), fi] 

5035. Verein fiir vaterlandische Katurkunde in Wiirtemberg {So- 
ciety of Natural History of Wiirtemberg). [iii] 
[Verein zur Forderung der Deutschen Cultur-Mission im 
Ausland {Society for the Promotion of German Culture 
Abroad). Dissolved.] 

5037. Verein zur FUrsorge entlassener Strafgefangener {Society 
for Providing for Discharged Prisoners), [ij 

5039. Wiirtembergischer Aerztlicher Verein {Physicians^ Society 
of Wiirtemberg). 

5041. Wiirtembergischer Alterthums- Verein {Archaeological So- 
ciety of Wiirtemberg). [i] 

5043. Wiirtembergischer Gartenbau- Verein {Horticultural Society 
of Wiirtemberg). [i] 



192 LIST OF FOREIGN CORKESrONDENT.S. 

Stuttgart ( Wilrtemherg) — Contiuued. 

5045. Wiirtembergiscber Thieriirztliclier Verein (Society of Vet- 
erinary Burgeons of Wilrtemherg). 
5047. Wiirtembergiscber Tiiierschutz-Yereiu ( Wilrtemherg Society 
for the Protection of Animals). 

Tharand (Saxony). 

[Koniglicb-Sachsische Akademie fiir Land und Forstwirtho 
(Royal Agricultural and Forest Academy of Saxony.)] 

Thorn (Prussia). 

5049. Copernicus Verein fiir Wissenschaft und Kunst (Cojyernicus 
Society of Sciences and Arts), [i] 

Trier (Prussia). 

5051. Gesellscbaft fiir niitzlicbe Forschungen (Society of Useful 
Research^, [i] 

Tubingen ( Wilrtemherg). 

5053. Cbemiscbes Haupt-Laboratoriuui derUniversitat(C'/teM/ca? 

Lahoratory of the University). 
5055. Koniglicbe Universitats-Bibliotbek (Royal University Li- 

hrary). [iii] 
5057. Landwirtbscbaftlicber Verein (Agricultural Society), [i] 
5059. Eedaktion: " Jabresbericbt fiir Opbtbalmologie" (Annals 

of Ophthalmology). 
5061. Eedaktion: "Zeitscbrift fiir die gesammten Staats-Wisseu- 

scbaften" (Journal of Political Science). 

TJlm ( Wilrtemherg). 

5063. Naturwissenscbaftlicbe Gesellfecbaft (Society of Natural 

Sciences), [i] 
5065. Verein fiir Kunst und Altertbum in Oberscbwaben (Society 
of Art and Archceology in Upper Sicahia). [i] 

Waren (Mecldenhurg). 

5067. Von Maltzan'scbes Naturbistoriscbes Museum ( Von Malt- 
zan Natural History Museum), [i] 

Weilburg (Prussia). 

5069. Verein Nassauiscber Aerzte (Nassau Physicians' Socie- 

ty)' [i] 

"Weimar (Saxe-Weimar). 

5071. Geograpbiscbes Institut (Geographical Institute), [i] 
5073. Verein fiir Blumistik und Gartenbau (Society of Floriculture 
and Horticulture), [i] 

"Weinsberg (Wilrtemherg). 

5075. Historiscber Verein fiir das Wiirtembergiscbe Franken 
(Historical Society of Wurtemherg Franconia). [ij 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 193 

Wernigerode {Prussia). 

5077. Grafliche Oefientlicbe Bibliotliok {Public Library), [iii] 
5079. Harz Vereiu iiir Geschiclite uiid Alterthumskunde {Hartz 
Society of History and Archaeology), [i] 

Wiesbaden {Prussia). 

5081. Gewerbe-Verein fiir Nassau {Polytechnic Society of Nas- 
sau), [i] 

5083. Verein fiir Nassauische Geschichte uud Alterthumskunde 
{Society for the History and Archwology of Nassau), [i] 

5085, Verein fiir Naturkunde {Society of Natural Sciences), [iii] 

5087. Verein Nassauisclier Land- und Forstwirtlie {Society of 
Agriculturists and Foresters of Nassau), [ij 

5089. Zeitschrift fiir Analytische Chemie {Journal of Analytical 
Chemistry), [i] 

Wilhelmshafen {Prussia). 

5091. Marine Sternwarte {Naval Observatory), [i] 

Worms {Hesse). 

5093. Grossherzogliches Gymnasium {Grand Ducal Gymna- 
sium), [i] 
5095. Grossherzoglich Hessische HaLudeis-Kammer {Grand Ducal 

Chamber of Commerce), [i] 

Wiirzburg {Bavaria). 

5097. Historischer Verein von Unterfranken und Aschaffenburg 
{Historical Society of Lower Franconia and Aschaffen- 
burg). [i] 

5099. Physikaliscli-Medizinische Gesellscbaft {Physico- Medical 
Society), [iiij 

5101. Polytechnischer Central -Verein {Central Polytechnic So- 
ciety), [i] 

5103. Uuterfraukischer Kreis-Fischerei -Verein {Fishery Associa- 
tion of Lower Franconia). 

5105. Universitats-Bibliothek (ii^rary o/ t^e University), [iiij 

5107. Zoologiscb Zootomisches lustitut der Universitat {Zootom- 
ical Institute of the University). 

Zittau {Saxony). 

5109. Gewerbe-Verein {Polytechnic Society), [i] 

Zweibrtiken {Bavaria). 

5111. Katurhistorischer Verein {Natural History Society), [i] 

Zwickau {Saxony). 

5113. Verein fiir Naturkuude {Society of Natural Sciences), [i] 
H. Mis, 15 13 



104 LliiT OF FOKEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

GKEAT BEITAIN AND IRELAND. 
ENGLAND. 

Alnwick. 

5115. Berwickshire Naturalists' Club (care of James Hardy, Old- 
cambus, Cockburnspatli, N. B.) [ij 

Ashton-under-Lyne. 

5117. Free Library, [i] 

Aston ( Warwickshire). 

5119. Public Library Departmeut. [i] 

Aylesbury. 

5121. Buckinghamshire Architectural and Archaeological So- 
ciety, [i] 

Barnsley. 

5123. Midland Institute of- Mining, Civil, and Mechanical Engi- 
neers, [i] 
Bath. 

5125. Bath and West of England Society, and Southern Coun- 
ties Association, [i] 
5127. Bath Natural History and Antiquarian Field Club, [i] 
5129. Bath Eoyal Literary and Philosophical Society, [i] 
5131. Geological Record (care of Taylor & Francis, Publishers, 
Eed Lion Court, Fleet Street, London, E. C). [i] 
Bedford. 

5133. Bedfordshire Architectural and Archaeological Society, [i] 
5135. Journal of Microscopy and Natural Sciences. 

Bidston. 

5137. Liverpool Observatory (care of John Hartnup, Bidston, 

near Birkenhead), [i] 
Birmingham. 

5139. Birmingham Free Libraries (J. D. Mullins, Librarian, Ead- 

cliffe Place, Birmingham [Free Eeference Library]). 

[iii] 
5141. Birmingham Natural History and Microscopical Society \ 

(care of Mason College of Science), [i] ; 

5143. Institute of Scientific Eesearch (67 Broad Street), [i] 
5145. Mason College of Science, [iii] 
5147. The Midland Naturalist (care of E. W. Badger, Midland 

Counties Herald Office, Birmingham), [i] 
Blackburn. 

5149. Public Library and Museum, [i] 

Boston (Lincolnshire). 

5151. Workingmen's College, [i] • . 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 195 

Brighton. 

5153. Brighton Aquarium. 

5155. Brighton and Sussex Natural History Society, [i] 

5157. Free Public Library, [ij 

Bristol. 

5159. Bristol City Library, [ij 

51G1. Bristol Microscopical Society, [i] 

5163. Bristol Museum and Library, [i] 

5165. Bristol ilaturalists' Society (care of A. Leipner, 47 Hampton 
Park, Clifton, near Bristol, [i] 

5167. United States Consulate, [i] 

[Institute for the Advancement of Sciences, Literature and 
Arts, identical with British Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science, London.] 

Bury St. Edmunds. 

5169. Suffolk Institute of Archaeology and Natural History, [i] 

Camborne {Cornwall). 

[Miners' Association of Cornwall and Devon (formerly in 

Truro). (See Eedruth.)] 
Cambridge. 

5171. Balfour Library, New Museum. 

5173. Cambridge Antiquarian Society (care of S. S. Lewis, Libra- 
rian of Corpus Christi College), [i] 

5175. Cambridge Free Library, [i] 

5177. Cambridge Journal of Philology (care of Macmillan & Co., 
Bedford Street, Strand, London, W. C). [i] 

5179. Cambridge Observatory, [iii] 

5181. Cambridge Philological Society, [i] 

5183. Cambridge Philosophical Society, [iii] 

5185. Corpus Christi College, [i] 

5187. Fitzwilliam Museum, [i] 

5189. Journal of Anatomy and Physiology (care of Macmillan & 
Co., Bedford Street, Strand, London). 

5191. Museum of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy (Downing 
Street, Cambridge). 

5193. New Archaeological Museum of the University, [i] 

5195. Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin Messenger of Mathe- 
matics. [iJ 

5197. St. John College. [iJ 

5199. Trinity College, [i] 

5201. University Library, [iii] 

5203. Woodwardian Museum, [i] 

Canterbury. 

5205. East Kent Natural History Society (care of W. H. Housloy, 
St. Stephen's Lodge, Canterbury, formerly in Dover). 

[il 



196 LIST OF FOKEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Cardiff. 

5207. jSTaturalists' Society. 
5209. [Jniversity College. 

Carlisle. 

5211. Ciimberlaud Association for the Advancement of Literature 
and Science. 

Chatham. 

5213. Royal Engineers' Institute, [i] 

Chester. 

5215. Chester and Cheshire Architectural and Archaeological So- 
ciety, [i] 
5217. Chester Natural Science Society, [i] 

Chesterfield. 

5219. Chesterfield and Derbyshire Institute of Mining Engi- 
neers, [i] 
Cirencester. 

5221. Royal Agricultural College, [i] 

Coteswold. 

5223. Coteswold Naturalists' Field Club (care of Mr. Lucy, Glou- 
cester), [i] 
Coventry. 

5225. Coventry and Warwickshire Pharmaceutical Association. 

[i] 
Crowborough. 

5227. Astronomical and Meteorological Observatory, [i] 

Croyden. 

5229. Croyden Microscopical Club, [i] 

Darlington. 

5231. Darlington Free Town Library. 

Derby. 

5233. Derbyshire County Lunatic Asylum, [i] 

Devizes. 

5235. Wiltshire Archaeological and Natural History Society, fi] 

Devonshire. 

[Devonshire Association, &c., now in Exeter]. 

Doncaster. 

5237. Yorkshire Institution for the Deaf and Dumb.] [i] 
Dover. 

[East Kent Natural History Society, now in Canterbury]. 
Dudley. 

5239. Dudley and Midland Geological and Scientific Society and I 
Field Club, [i] 



1 



LIST OF FOREIGX CORRESPONDENTS. 107 

Dumbarton. 

5241. Free Public Library, [i] 

Dulwich. 

5243. Dalwich College Science Society. 

Durham. 

5245. Observatory, [ij 

Eastbourne. 

5247. Natural History Society (care of G. F. Chambers, F.E.A.8., 
Royal Astronomical Society, Burlington House, Lon- 
don, W.). [1] 
Epping. 

5249. The Epping Forest and County of Sussex Naturalists' 

Field Club, [i] 
Eton. 

5251. Eton College, [i] 

Exeter. 

5253. Devon and Exeter Albert Memorial Museum, School of 
Science and Art, and Free Library, [iii] 

5255. Devon and Exeter Institution, fi] 

5257. Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science, 
Literature, and Art (care of Albert Memorial Mu- 
seum). 

5259. Teign Naturalists' Field Club (care of G. W. Ormerod, 
Teignmouth, Devon), [i] 
Falmouth. 

5261. The Observatory, [i] 

5263. Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society, [iii] 

Farnborough Station {Rants). 

5265. Royal Staff [Military] College, fi] 

Greenwich. 

5267. Astronomer Royal. 
5269. Royal Naval College, [i] 
5271. Royal Observatory, [iii] 

Halifax. 

5273. Bermerside Observatory, Skircoat. [i] 
5275. Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnical Society (formerly 
in Leeds), [i] 
Hereford. 

5277. Woolhope Naturalists' Field Club (care of Arthur Thomp- 
son, 12 St. Nichol's Street, Hereford), [i] 
Huddersfield. 
I 5279. Yorkshire Archaeological and Toi)ographical Associa- 

tion. [i| 



198 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Hull. 

5281. Hull Literary and Philosophical Society [Eoyal Institu 

tion]. [i] 
5283. Subscription Library [Royal Institution], [i] 

Ipswich. 

5285. Orwell Park Observatory, [i] 

Isle of Man. 

5287. Natural History and Antiquarian Society. 

Keighley. 

5289. Keighley Agricultural Society. 
Kew. 

5291. Royal Botanic Oardens. [i] 

5293. Kew Observatofy, (Richmond, Surrey), [iii] 

5295. Meteorological OflBce. 

Leeds. 

5297. Conchological Society of Great Britain and Ireland, [i] 
[Geological and Polytechnical Society, now in Haliftix.] 
5299. [Quai'terly] Journal of Conchology. [i] 
5301. Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, [iii] 
5303. Leeds Public Library, [i] 
5305. Yorkshire College of Science, [i] 
5307. "Yorkshire Naturalists' Union, [i] 

(Note. — All the Leeds packages might be put into one package 
and sent care of Taylor Bros., Journal of Conchology 
Office, St. Ann Street, top of Albion Street, Leeds.) 

Leicester. 

5309. Leicester Free Library (Wellington Street), [i] 
5311. Leicester Literary and Philosophical Society, [i] 
5313. Leicester Town Museum, [ij 

Lewes. 

5315. Sussex Archaeological Society, [i] 

Leyton (Essex). 

5317. Private Observatory of Joseph G. Barclay, [i] 

Liverpool. 

5319. Anthropological Societj" (care of William Hitch wan, M. D., 

144 Pythian Street, Low Hill, Liverpool). 
5321. Architectural and Archaeological Society, [i] 
5323. Derby Museum. [iJ 

5325. Free Public Library, Museum, and Walker Gallery of Art 
of the town of Liverpool, [iii] 
[Geological Magazine. (See London.)] 
5327. Geological Society. \\\ 



1 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 199 

Liverpool — Coutiuaed. 

5329. Historic Society of Lancasbire and Cheshire (care of Rupert 
Laue, Everton, Liverpool), [i] 

6331. Literary and Philosophical Society (care of Eoyal Institu- 
tion, Liverpool), [iii] 

5333. Liverpool Art Club, [i] 

5335. Liverpool Astronomical Society (care of Rev. T. E. Espin, 
Church Road, West Kirby, Birkenhead). 

5337. Liverpool Chemists' Association, [i] 

5339. Liverpool Engineers' Society, [i] 

5341. Liverpool Geological Association — Free Public Library 
(William Brown Street), [i] 

5343. Liverpool ^Naturalists' Field Club, [i] 

5345. Liverpool Polytechnic Society, fij 
[Observatory. (See Bidston.)] 

5347. Royal Institution, [i] 

London. 

5349. Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, [iiij 
5351. William Wesley (Agent of the Smithsonian Institution, 28 

Essex Street, Strand), [i] 
5353. Aborigines Protection Society (5 Tile Street, Chelsea, S. 

W.). [i] 
5355. "Academy" (27 Chancery Lane), [i] 
5357. Aeronautical Society of Great Britain (Maidenstone Hill, 

Blackheath, S. E.). [i] 
5359. Agent General for Cape Colony (7 Albert Mansion, Victoria 

Street, S. W.). [i] 
5361. Agent General for New South Wales (5 Westminster Cham- 
bers, Victoria Street, S. W.). [ij 
5363. Agent General for New Zealand (7 Westminster Chambers, 

Victoria Street, S. W.). [iJ 
5365. Agent General for Queensland (Westminister Chambers, 

Victoria street, S. W.). [i] 
5367. Agent General for Victoria (8 Victoria Chambers, West- 
minster, S. W.). [i] 
5369. American Exchange in Europe (449 Strand, W. C). [i] 
5371. Annals and Magazine of Natural History (care of Taylor & 

Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E. C). [i] 
5373. Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (3 

Hanover Square, W.). [iii] 
5375. "Antiquary " (care of E. Stock, 62 Paternoster Row, E. 

C). [i] 
5377. Archfeological Journal [organ of the Royal Archaeological 

Institute] (Beford Mansions, Oxford Street, W.). [i] 
5379. Architectural Publication Society (7 Whitehall Yard, S. 

W.). [i] 



200 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONbENTS. 

London — Continued. 

5381. Art Union of London (Strand, W. C). [i| 

5383. Arundel Society (24 Old Bond Street, W.). [i] 

5385. Astronomical Register (care of Rev. J.C.Jackson, 11 Angel 

Court, Throgmorton Street, E. C). [i] 
5387. "Athenaeum" (20 Wellington Street, Strand, W. C). [i] 
5389. Athenaeum Club (Pall Mall, S. W.). [iii] 
5391. Birkbeck Literary and Scientific Institution (Bream's Build- 
ing, Chancery Lane), [i] 
6393. Board of Admiralty (Whitehall, S.W.). [iii] 
5395. Board of Trade (Whitehall, S.W.). [i] 
5397. " Bookseller " (care of Whittaker & Co., Ave Maria Lane, 

E. C). [i] 
5399. British Archaeological Association (32 Sackville Street, 

Piccadilly, W.). [iii] 
5401. British Association for the Advancement of Science (22 Al- 
bemarle Street), [iii] 
5403. British Homoeopathic Society (care of London Hospital, 

Great Ormond Street, Queen's Square, W. C). [i] 
5405. British Horological Institute (Northampton Square, 

E. C). [i] ^ 
5407. British Journal of Photography, [i] 
5409. British Medical Journal. 

[British Meteorological Society. (See Royal Meteorological 

Society.)] 
5411. British Museum (Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, 

W.C). [iii] 
5413. British Museum, Natural History Division (Cromwell 

Road, South Kensington, S. W.). 
5415. British Museum, Zoological Department. 

[British Pharmaceutical Conference. (Has no library.)] 
5417. Camden Society (25 Parliament Street, S.W.). [i] 
5419. Chemical News, Boy Court, Ludgate Hill, E.C.). [i] 
5421. Chemical Society of London (Burlington House, W.). [iii] 
5423. Chemist and Druggist (44 Cannon Street, E. C). [i] 
5425. Central Chamber of Agriculture (21 Arundel Street, 

Strand). 
5427. Chinese Customs Office (8 Storey's Gate, S. W.). [i] 

[Chronological Institute. (See Horological Institute.)] 
5429. Civil and Mechanical Engineers' Society (7 Westminster 

Chambers, Victoria Street, S.W.). [i] 
5431. City and Guild of London Institute for the Advancement 

of Technical Education (Mercer's Hall, E.G.) [i] 
5433. Civil Service Commission (Westminster, S. W.). [i] 
5435. Clinical Society (03 Berners Street, Beford Street, W.). [ij 



LIST f)F FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 201 

London — Continued. 

o437. Cobden Club (care of Mr. Gowiug, Cupper Park Eoad, 
Haverstock Hill, N. W.). [i] 

5439. Committee on Solar Physics of the Lords of the Commit- 
tee of Council on Education. 

5441. Commissioners in Lunacy. 

5443. "Contemporary Review" (care of Kegan, Paul & Co., Pa- 
ternoster Row). 
[Corps of Royal Engineers. (See Chatham.)] 

5445. Crown Agents for the Colonies (Colonial Office Building, 
Downing Street), [i] 

5447. "Daily News" Shipping and Mercantile Gazette (Bouverie 
Street, Fleet Street, E! C). 

5449. "Diplomatic Review" (7 Colbridge Road, Finsbury 
Park), [i] 

5451. Duke of Northumberland (2 Grosvenor Place, S. W.). [iii] 

5453. Early Euglish Text Society (care of F. J. Furniwall, M. A., 
3 St. George's Hill, Primrose Hill), [i] 

5455. East India Association (20 Great George Street, West- 
minster, S. W.). [i] 

5457. "Electrical Review" (22 Paternoster Row). \i] 

5459. English and Foreign Electrotype Agency. 

5461. English Mechanic and World of Science (31 Tavistock 
Street, Covent Garden), [i] 

5463. Entomological Society (11 Chandos Street, Cavendish 
Square, W,). [iii] 

5465. " Entomologist" (care of West & Newman, 58 Hatton Gar- 
den, E. C). [ij 

5467. " Entomologists' Monthly Magazine" (care of J. Van Voorst, 
1 Paternoster Row, E. C). [iJ 

5469. Epidemiological Society (11 Chandos Street, Cavendish 
Square, W.). [i] 
[Ethnological Journal. Journal of the Anthropological 

Institute.] 
[Ethnological Society. Identical with Anthropological 
Institute.] 

5471. "European Mail" (care of Allen & Co., Waterloo Place, 
S. W.). 

5473. " Fish Trades Gazette " (E. E. Hyde, 191 Fleet Street, E. C). 

5475. Fishery Department, Home Office (Whitehall, S. W.). [iJ 

5477. " Fishing Gazette " (Fetter Lane, E. C). [i] 

5479. Folk Lore Society (care of G. L. Gomme, 2 Park Villas, 
Londsdale Road, Barnes), [i] 

5481. "Fortnightly Review" (care of Chapman & Hall, 12 Hen- 
rietta Street, Covent Garden, W. C). [iJ 



202 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

London — Continued. 

5483. Free Public Library (23 Great Smith Street, Westminster, 
S. W.). [ij 

6485. Free Public Library in the office of the Commissioners of 
Patents for Inventions (Southampton Building, Chan- 
cery Lane, W. C). [iii] 

5487. Prof. W. H. Flower (Natural History Division, British Mu- 
seum, South Kensington). [iJ 

5489. " Gardeners' Chronicle." [i] 

[Geographical Magazine, now Journal of Eoyal Geograph- 
ical Society.] 
[Geological Association. Identical with Geologists' Asso- 
ciation.] 

5491. Geological Department, Home Office, [i] 

5493. Geological Magazine (care of Triibner & Co., Ludgate Hill, 
B.C.). [i] 
[Geological Eecord. (See Bath.)] 

5495. Geological Society of London (Burlington House, W.). [iii] 

5497. Geological Survey of Great Britain (Jermyn Street, 
S. W.). [i] 

6499. Geologists' Association (University College, Gower Street, 

W. C). [i[ 
[Great Seal Patent Office. (See Free Public Library in 
the office of the Commissioners of Patents of Inven- 
tions.)] 

6501. Gresham CoUege (91 Gresham Street, E. C). [i] 

5503. "Grevillea" (care of Williams & iS^orgate, 14 Henrietta 
Street, Covent Garden, W. C). [i] 
[Guy's Hospital Physical Society (9 St. Thomas Street, 
Borough, S. E.). (See Museum of Guy's Hospital.)] 

5505. Hakluyt Society (care of Mr. Clark, 30 Sardinia Street, Lin- 
coln's Inn, W. C). [i] 

5507. Hardwicke's Science Gossip (care of Chatto & Wiudus, 
Piccadilly, W.). [i] 

5509. Harveian Medical Society of London (Stafford Rooms, 
Titcheborne Street, Edgeware Road, W.). [i] 

6511. "Herald of Peace" (care of Passmore & Alabaster, 4 Pater- 
noster Building, E. C). [i] 

5513, Historical Society (10 Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, 
W.). 

6615. Home Department, Home Office (Whitehall, S. W.). [i] 

5517. Howard Association (5 Bishopsgate Street Without, E. C). 

5519. Hudson's Bay Company's Library (1 Lime Street, E. C). [i] 

6521. Hunterian Society (care of London Institution, Finsbury 
Circus, E. C). [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 203 

London — Continued. 

5523. Hydrographic Office of the Admiralty (Whitehall, S.W.). [ij 
[Imperial Museum for India and the Colonies. (See Library 
of the Secretary of State for India.)] 
5525. Inspector General of Fortifications (Horse Guards, White- 
hall, S. W.). [i] 
5527. Institute of Actuaries of Great Britain and Ireland (address 
to the care of Statistical Society, 9 Adelphi Terrace, 
Strand, W. C). [iiij 
5529. Institute of Mechanical Engineers [from Birmingham] (10 

Victoria Chambers, Victoria Street, S. W.). [i] 
5531. Institution of Civil Engineers (25 Great George Street, 

W^estminster, S. W.). [iii] 
5533. Institution of Hydronomical and Nautical Engineers (care 

of Mr. Potter, 31 Poultry, E. C). [i] 
5535. Institution of Naval Architects (5 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, 

W. C.) 
5537. Intelligence Branch, War Office (18 Queen Anne's Gate, 

S.^W.). [i] 
5539. Iron and Steel Institute (care of E. & F. N. Spon, Savoy 

Street, Strand), [i] 
5541. " Iron" (161 Fleet Street), [i] 

5543. Journal of the Eoyal Geographical Society (formerly Geo- 
graphical Magazine). 
[Journal of Conchology. (See Leeds).] 
[Journal of Philology. (See Cambridge).] 
[Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society. (Identical with 

the Royal Agricultural Society.) 
[Journal of the Royal Anthropological Society. (Identical 
with Royal Anthropological Institute.)] 
5545. Journal of Science (3 Boy Court, Ludgate Hill), [i] 

[Journal Society of Arts. (The organ of the Society for the 
Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Com- 
merce.)] 
5547. " Knowledge" (care of Wyman & Sons, Green Queen Street, 

W. C). [i] 
5549. "Land and Water " (SalisburyCourt, Fleet street, E.C.). [i] 
5551. Library Association of the United Kingdom (13 South 

Square, Gray's Inn, W. C). [i] 
5553. Library of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade (White- 
hall, S. W.). [iii] 
5555. Library of Corporation of City of London (Guildhall, E. C). 

[iii] 
5557. Library of the Foreign Office (Whitehall, S. W.). [i] 
5559. Library of the House of Commons (Westminster, S. W.). 

[iii] 



204 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

London — Coutiuued. 

5561. Library of tbe House of Lords (Westminster, S. W.). [i| 

5563. Library of tbe Secretary of State for India (India Office), [i] 
[" Life Boat." (Tbis is tbe organ of the Eoyal National Life 
Boat Institution.)] 

5565. Lindley Library, Eoyal Horticultural Society, South Ken- 
sington (care of Dr. M. T. Masters, 41 Wellington 
Street, Strand, W. C). [i] 

5567. Linnien Society (Burlington House, W.). [iii] 

5569. Live Stock Journal (La Belle Sauvage Yard, Ludgate Hill, 
E. C). [i] 

5571. Local Government Board (Whitehall, S. W.) [i] 

5573. London and Middlesex ArcbaBological Society (4 St. Martin's 
Place, Trafalgar Square, W. C). [ij 

5575. London, Edinburgh, and Dublin PLilosophical Magazine 
(care of Taylor & Francis, Eed Lion Court, Fleet Street, 
E.G.). [i] 

5577. London Hospital, [i] 

5571>. London Illustrated News (198 Strand, W. C). [i] 

5581. London Institution (Finsbury Gircus, E. 0.). [iii] 

5583. London Library (12 St. James Square, S. W.). [iii] 

5585. London Mathematical Society (22 Albemarle Street, W.) [i] 

5587. London Mechanics' Institution, [i] 

5589. London Society for Promoting Christianity among the Jews 
(16 Lincoln's Inn Fields, W. C). [i] 

5591. Lords of Her Majesty's Treasury, [i] 

5593.. Mark Lane Express (Clement's Inn Passage). 

5595. Medical Press and Circular. 

5597. Medical Society of London (11 Chandos Street, Cavendish 
Square, W.). [i] 

5599. Medical Times (care of J. & A. Churchill, New Burlington, 
S. W.). [i] 

5601. Meteorological Office (116 Victoria Street), fi] 

[Meteorological Society. (See Eoyal Meteorological Soci- 
ety.)] 

5603. "Mind" (Williams & Norgate, 14 Henrietta Street, Covent 

Garden, W. C). [i] 
5605. Mineralogical Magazine (care of E. H. Scott, 116 Victoria 

Street, S. W.). [i] 
5607. Mineralogical Society of Great Britain (care of E. H. 

Scott, 116 Victoria Street, S. W.). [i] 
5609. Mining Journal (26 Fleet street, E. C). [i] 
5611. Mining World (234-236 Gresham House, Old Broad Street, 

E. C). [i] 
6613. Museum of Guy's Hospital (9 St. Thomas Street, Borough, 

S. E.). [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN COKRESPONDENTS. 205 

London — Continued. 

5C15. Museum of Practical Geology (Jermyn Street, S.W.). fiii] 
5617. National Association for the Promotion of Social Science (1 

Adams Street, Adelpbi, W. C). [ij 
5619. "Nature" (care of Macmillan & Co., Bedford Street, Strand, 

W. C). [i] 
5G21. Nautical Almanac Office (Vendom Buildings, Gray's Inn, 

W. C). [i] 
5623. Nineteenth Century (care of Kegan, Paul & Co., Pater- 
noster Square, E. C). [i] 
(Numismatic Chronicle. (Organ of Numismatic Society.)] 
5625. Numismatic Society (22 Albemarle Street, W.). [i] 
5627. "Observatory" (care of Taylor & Francis, Eed Lion Court, 

Fleet Street, E. C). [ij 
5629. Obstetrical Society of London (53 Berners Street, W.). fi] 
5631. Odontological Society of Great Britain (Leicester Square, 

W. C). [i] 
5633. Palaeontographical Society (Burlington House, W.). [i] 
[Palaeontological Society. (Identical with Palseontograph- 

ical Society.)] 
5635. Palestine Exploration Fund (1 Adam Street, Adelphi, W. 

C). [i] 
5637. Pathological Society (53 Berners Street, W.). [i] 

[Pharmaceutical Journal and Transactions. (Organ of the 

Pharmaceutical Society.)] 
5639. Pharmaceutical Society (17 Bloomsbury Square, W. C). 

[i] 
5641. Philological Society (care of University College, Gower 

Street, W. C.).' [iii] 
5643. Photographic Society (5a Pall Mall East, S. W.). [i] 
5645. Physical Society of London (Science Schools, South Ken- 
sington), [i] 
[Popular Science Review. (Discontinued.)] 
5647. Post-Office Library and Literary Association (St. Martin's 
Le Grand, E. C). [i] 
[Public Free Library. (Identical with Free Public Li- 
brary.)] 
[Quarterly Journal of Science. (Same as Journal of Sci- 
ence.)] 
[Queensland Government Agency (1 Westminster Cham- 
bers, S. W.).] (Same as 5365.) 
5649. Quekett Microscopical Club (University College, Gower 

Street, W. C). [i] 
5651. Eay Society (Burlington House, W.). [i] 

[Record Office, India Office. (See Library of the Secretary 
of State for India.)] 



206 LIST OF FOREIGN COERESPONDENTS. 

London — Continued. 

5653. Reform Club (Pall Mall, S. W.). [i] 

5655. " Keliquar^'" Quarterly Archaeological Journal and Review 
(Bemrose & Sons, Paternoster Square), [i] 

5657. Royal Agricultural Society of England (Hanover Square, 
W.). fiii] 

5659. Royal Archaeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland 
(Oxford Mansions, Oxford Street, W.). [iii] 

6661. Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland (Albe- 
marle Street, W.). [iii] 

5663. Royal Astronomical Society (Burlington House, Picca- 
dilly, W.). [iii] 

5665. Royal Botanic Society (Inner Circle, Regent's Park, 
K W.). [i] 

5667. Royal College of Physicians of London (Pall Mall East), [i] 

5669. Royal College of Surgeons of England (Lincoln's Inn 
Fields, W. C). [iii] 

5671. Royal Colonial Institute (15 Strand, W. C). [i] 

[Royal Engineers' Headquarters Library. (See Chatham.)] 
[Royal Engineers' Institute. (See Chatham.)] 

6673. Royal Geographical Society of London (1 Savile Row, 
" W.). [iii] 
[Royal Geological Society. (Identical with Geological So- 
ciety.)] 

5675. Royal Historical Society (11 Chandos Street, Cavendish 
Square), [i] 

6677. Royal Horticultural Society of London (South Kensington, 
S. W.). [iii] 

5679. Royal Humane Society (4 Trafalgar Square), [i] 

5681. Royal Institute of British Architects (9 Conduit Street, 
W.). [i] 

5683. Royal Institution of Great Britain (Albemarle Street, 
W.). [iii] 

5685. Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society (53 Berners Street, 
W.). [i] 

5687. Royal Meteorological Society [formerly Meteorological So- 
ciety, and later British Meteorological Society], [i] 

5689. Royal Microscopical Society (King's College, Strand, 
W.C). [iii] 
[Royal Military College. (See Farnboro'.)] 

5691. Royal National Life-Boat lustitukon (14 John Street, 
Adelphi). [i] 
[Royal School of Mines. (Same as Museum of Practical 
Geology.)] 

5693. Royal Society of Literature (22 Delahay Street, West- 
miuster). [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 207 

London — Continued. 

5695. Eoyal Society of London (Burlington House, W.). [ii| 

5697. Eoyal United Service Institution (Whitehall, S.W.). [ij 

5699. Saint Bartholomew's Hospital (Smithfleld, E. C). [i] 

5701. Saint George's Hospital (Hyde Park, W.). [i] 

5703. Saint Thomas's Hospital (Albert Embankment, S. E.). [iJ 

5705. Salmon Fishery Office (Whitehall, S. W.). [i] 

5707. Science and Art Department (South Kensington), [iiij 
[Scientific Club. (Dissolved.)] 

[Science Gossip. (See Hardwicke's Science Gossip.)] 
[Scientific Opinion. (Same as English Mechanic and World 

of Science.] 
[Scientific Eoll. (Irregular.]) 

5709. Selenographical Society (care of Eoyal Astronomical So- 
ciety, Burlington House, W.). [i] 

6711. Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine (62 Camden 
Square, K. W.). 
[Silk Supply Association. (Discontinued.)] 
[Social Science Association. (Same as Kational Association 
for the Promotion of Social Science.)] 

5713. Society of Antiquaries of London (Burlington House, W.) 
[iii] 

6715. Society of Apothecaries of London (Water Lane, Black- 
friars, E. C). [i] 

5717. Society of Biblical Archaeology (11 Hart Street, Blooms- 
bury), [i] 

5719. Society of Cymmarodrin (Lonsdale Chambers, Chancery 
Lane). 

5721. Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and 
Commerce (John Street, Adelphi, W. C). [iii] 

5723. Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge (North- 
umberland Avenue, S. W.). [i] 

5725. Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies (care of 
Macmillau & Co., Bedford Street, Strand), [i] 

5727. Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts 
(10 Delahay Street, Westminster, S. W.). [iJ 

5729. Society of Engineers (6 Westminster Chambers, Victoria 
Street, S. W). [i] 

5731. Society of Public Analysts (37 Lombard Street, E. C). [i] 

5733. Society of Telegraph Engineers (4 Broad Sanctuary, West- 
minster, S. W.). [i] 

5735. South Kensington Educational Library. 

6737. South Kensington Museum, [i] 

[Statistical Society, King's College. (Identical with Statis- 
tical Society of London.)] 



208 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

London — Continued. 

5739. Statistical Society of London (9 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, 
W. C). [iii] 

5741. Surrey Archaelogical Society (8 Dane's Inn, Strand, W. 
0.). [ij 

5743. Syrio-Egyptian Society (9 Conduit Street, W.). [i] 

5745. "The Aquarium" (1 Westminster, S. W.). [i] 

5747. "The Economist" (349 Strand, W. C). [i] 

5749. "The Colliery Guardian and Journal of the Coal and Iron 
Trades." [i] 

5751. " The Electrical Review and Telegraphic Journal" [form- 
erly the Telegraphic Journal] (22 Paternoster Row, 
E. C). [i| 

5753. " The Electrician." 

5755. " The Engineer " (163 Strand, W. C). [i] 

5757. " The Engineering" (35 and 36 Bedford Street, Strand). [iJ 

5759. " The Field" (346 Strand, W. C). [iJ 

5761. "The Garden" (37 Southampton Street, Covent Garden, W. 
C). [i] 

5763. " The Ibis" (1 Paternoster Row, E. C). 

5765. "The Lancet." 

[" The Oriental" (Ceased to appear.)] 

5767. " The Statesman's Yearbook." [i] 

5769. "The Spectator" (Wellington Street, Strand, W. C). [i| 
[" The Telegraphic Journal." (See " The Electrical Review 
and Telegraphic Journal.")] 

5771. "TheTimes" (Printing House Square, Blackfriars, E.G.). [i] 

5773. Trawling Commission. 

5775. Triibner & Co. (57 and 59 Ludgate Hill, E. C). [i] 

5777. University College (Gower Street, W. C). fi] 

5779. U. S. Dispatch Agency (4 Trafalgar Square, W. C). 

5781. Victoria Institute [or Philosophical Society of Great Britain] 
(8 Adelphi Terrace, W. C). [i] 

5783, Willughby Society for the Reprinting of Scarce Ornitho- 
logical Works (6 Tenterden Street, Hanover Square, 
W.). [i] 

5785. Worshipful Company of Clockmakers (Town Clerk's Office, 
Guildhall, E. C). [i] 
[Zoological Department of the Britisn Museum. (See British 
Museum.)] 

5787. Zoological Record Association (care of Van Voorst, 1 Pater- 
noster Row, E. C). [i] 

5789. Zoological Society of London (1 Hanover Square, W.). [iii] 

5791. "Zoologist" (care of Van Voorst, 1 Paternoster Row, E. C). 
Li] 



LIST OF FOREIGN COKKESrONDENTS. 200 

Lowestoft. 

5793. iSorfolk aud Suffolk Fish Acclimatization Society, [ij 

Macclesfield, 

5795. Maccleislield Society for Acquiring Useful Knowledge. |ij 

Maidstone. 

5797. Kent Archaiological Society. [iJ 

Manchester. 

5799. Chctham's Library, [i] 

5801. Geological Society (3G George Street), fi] 

5803. Lancashire Independent College, [i] 

5805. Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester (36 George 
Street), [iii] 

5807. Manchester Field Naturalists' and Archaeologists' Society. [iJ 

5809. Manchester Literary Club, [i] 

5811. Manchester Public Free Library [formerly " and Muse- 
um"], [iii] 

5813. Manchester Scientific Students' Association (97 Bridge 
Street), [i] 

5815. Jfumismatic Society, [i] 

5817. Jwen's College, [iii] 

[" Universal Engineer." (Discontinued.)] 

5819. Vegetarian Society (56 Peter Street). 

Marlborough. 

5821. Marlborough College Natural History Society, [i] 

Newbury. 

5823. Newbury District Field Club, [i] 

Newcastle {Staffordshire). 

5825. North Staffordshire Naturalists' Field Club, [i] 

Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 

5827. Antiquarian Society, [i] 

5829. Durham College of Science [formerly College of Physical 

Science], [i] 
5831. Central Exchange, News Room, Art Gallery, and Industrial 

Exhibition, [i] 
5833. Literary and Philosophical Society, [i] 
5835. Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham, and 

Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Museum, Newcastle), [iii] 
5837. North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical En- 
gineers, [i] 
[North Staffordshire Naturalists' Field Club. (See New- 
castle, Staffordshire.)] 
[Public Libraries. (See Central Exchange, &c.)] 
[Reading-Eoom. (See Central Exchange, &c.)J 
5839. Tynesidu Naturalists' Field Club (Museum, Newcastle), [i] 
H. Mis. 15 14 



210 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Norwich. 

5841. Norfolk and Norwich Archaeological Society, [i] 
5843. Norfolk aud Norwich Museum, [i] 
5845. Norfolk aud Norwich Naturalists' Society, [i] 
5847. Norwich Geological Society, [i] 

Nottingham. 

5849. Free Library and Museum of the Borough of Notting- 
ham, [i] 

5851. Nottingham Literary and Philosophical Society. 

5853. Nottingham Mechanics' Association (Mechanics' Hall Li- 
brary), [i] 

5855. Nottingham School of Art. [i] 

5857. United Lunatic Asylum, [ij 

Oldham. 

5859. Oldham Free Eeference Library, Museum, and Art Gal- 
lery. 
Oscolt. 

5861. Oscolt College, Erdington, Birmingham. 
5863. St. Mary's College. 

Oxford. 

5865. Ashmolean Society. [iJ 

5867. Bodleian Library, [iii] 

5869. Library of the Sumerville Hall for Ladies. 

5871. Magdalen College, [i] 

5873. Museum of Natural History, [i] 

5875. Oxford Architectural and Historical Society (17 New Inn 

Hall Street). 
5877. Oxford, &c., Messenger of Mathematics. 
5879. Oxford Free Library, [i] 

[Oxford University Library. (Same as Bodleian Library.)] 
5881. Oxford University Entomological Society, [i] 
5883. Oxford University Indian Institute. 
5885. Oxford University Observatory. [iJ 
5887. Radcliffe Library (Museum), [i] 
5889. Radcliffe Observatory, [iii] 
[Savilian Observatory.] 

Penzance. 

5893. Natural History and Antiquarian Society, [i] 

5895. Penzance Public Library, [i] 

5897. Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. [iJ 

Plymouth. 

[Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science, 

Literature, and Arts. (See Exeter.)] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 211 

Plymoiitli — Contiuued. 

5899. Plymoutli Institution and Devon and Cornwall Natural 

History Society, [i] 
5901, Plymouth Free Library [formerly Museum], [i] 

Portsmouth. 

5903. Eoyal Naval College, [i] 

Reading. 

5905. Public Library and Museum. 

Redruth. 

5907. The Mining Association and Institute of Cornwall, [i] 

Richmond {Surrey). 

5909. Free Public Library. 

Richmond (YorlcsMre). 

5911. Eichmond and North Eiding Naturalists' Field Club, [i] 

Rugby. 

5913. Natural History Society of Eugby School, [i] 
5915. Temple Observatory, [i] 

Ryde {Isle of Wight). 

5917. Philosophical and Scientific Society, [i] 

St. Albans. 

5919. St. Albans' Architectural and Archaeological Society, [i] 

Salford. 

5921. Salford Eoyal Museum and Library, [i] 
5923. Town Council of Salford. [i] 
5925. Working Men's College, [i] 

Salisbury. 

5927. Blackmore Museum. 

Sandhurst. 

[Eoyal Military College. (See Farnsboro'.)] 
[Eoyal Staff College. (See Farnsboro'.)] 
Sheffield. 

5929. Firth College, [i] 

5931. Literary and Philosophical Society, [i] 

Southampton. 

5933. Hartley Institution, [iii] 

5935. Ordnance Trigouometrical Survey of Great Britain and 

Ireland (1 St. Martin's Place, London, W. C). [ij 
5937. South of England Literary and Philosoi)hical Society, [i] 



212 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Southport. 

5939. Aquarium, [i] 

5941. Free Public Library, [i] 

South Shields. 

5943. Public Free Library, [i] 

Shrewsbury. 

5945. Shropshire Archaeological and Natural History Society, [i] 

Staines. 

5947. Eoyal India Engineering College, [i] 

Stoke-on-Trent. 

5949. Free Library and Museum [formerly Athenaeum]. 
5951. North Staffordshire Institute of Mining and Mechanical 
Engineers, [i] 

Taunton. 

5953. Somersetshire Archaeological and Natural History So- 
ciety, [ij 

Teignmouth. 

[Teigu Naturalists' Field Club. {See Exeter.)] 

Torquay. 

5955. Natural History Society, [i] 

Truro. 

[Miners' Association, &c. (See Camborne.)] 
• [Miueralogical Magazine. (See London.)] 

[Mineralogical Society. (See London.)] 
5957. Eoyal Institution of Cornwall, [i] 

Twickenham. 

5959. Twickenham Economic Museum, [i] 

Warrington. 

5961. Warrington Museum, [i] 

Warwick. 

5963. Warwickshire Natural History and Archaeological Soci- 
ety, [i] 
Watford. 

5965. Hertfordshire Natural History Society and Field Club 
(care of Mr. Hopkinson, 95 New Bond Street, Lon- 
don, W.) [i] 
Wellington. -^ 

[Wellington College. (See Wokingham.)] I 

Whalley {Lancashire). 

. 5967. Stonyhurst College, [i] 
5969. Stonyhurst CoUege Observatory, [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN COKRESPONDENTS. 213 

Whitby. 

5971. Literary and Philosophical Society Museum, [i] 



Wigan. 
f 

Winchester 



5973. Mining School. 



[Winchester and Hampshire Scientific and Literary Soci- 
ety. (Dissolved.)] 
Windsor. 

[Eton College. (See Eton.)] 
5975. Eoyal Library, [i] 

Wokingham. 

5977. Wellington College Natural History Society [formerly in 
Wellington (address parcels " Wellington College, 
Berkshire, South Eastern Eailway). [i] 

Wolverhampton. 

5979. Association of Chemists and Druggists. 

Woolwich. 

5981. Royal Artillery Institution, [iii] 
5983. Eoyal Military Academy, [iii] 

Wycombe {Buckinghamshire), 

5985. High Wycombe Natural History Society, [i] 

York. 

[Yorkshire Agricultural Society.] 

5987. Yorkshire Philosophical Society, [i] 

IRELAND. 

Armagh. 

5989. Observatory, [iii] 
5991. Public Library, [iii] 

Belfast. 

5993. Belfast Institution, [i] 

5995. Belfast Naturalists' Field Club, [i] 

5997. Chemico-Agricultural Society of Ulster, [i] 

5999. Flax Supply Extension Association, [i] 

6001. Natural History and Philosophical Society, [iii] 

6003. Northeast Agricultural Association, [i] 

6005. Queen's CoUege. [iii] 

Collooney. 
y 6007. Markrce Observatory, [i] 

Cork. 

6009. Chamber of Commerce. 

6011. Christian Schools. 



\ 



214 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Cork — Contiuued, 

6013. Cuvierian and Aicbfleological Society, [i] 
6015. Library of Queen's CoUege. [iii] 
6017. Royal Cork Institution, fi] 

Dublin. 

6019. Catholic CoUege of Ireland, [iii] 

6021. Chemical Society of Dublin, [i] 

[''Copernicus" International Journal of Astronomy. (Dis- 
continued.)] 
[Deaf and Dumb Institution of Cabra. (Identical with 
St. Joseph's Cabra Institution, the former the female, 
the latter the male, institution.)] 
[Dublin Geological Society. (See Eoyal Geological Society 
of Ireland, No. 6065.)] 

6023. Dublin Library (D'Oliver street). 

[Dublin Quarterly Journal of Science. (Discontinued)] 

6025. Dublin Society of Natural History, [i] 

6027. Dublin University, [ij 

6029. Dublin University Biological Association. 

6031. Dublin University Philosophical Association. 

[Dublin University Zoological Botanical Association. (Dis- 
solved.)] 

6033. Freeman's Journal. 

6035. Geological Survey of Ireland, [i] 

6037. Institution of Civil Engineers of Ireland (35 Dawson 
street), [i] 

6039. Institution for Deaf and Dumb, Claremont Glasnevin. [i] 

6041. Irish Archaeological and Celtic Association. 

6043. Irish Fisheries Commission. 

6045. Irish Medical Association, [i] 

6047. Journal of Medical Science. 

6049. Library of Trinity College, [iii] 

6051. National Library of Ireland, Science and Art Department 
(Leinster House, Kildare Street), [i] 

6053. Observatory of Trinity College, [i] 

6055. Pharmaceutical Society, [i] 

6057. Royal Agricultural Society, [i] 

6059. Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. 

6061. Royal Dublin Society (Kildare Street), [iii] 

6063. Royal Geographical Society. 

6065. Royal Geological Society of Ireland, [i] 

6067. Royal Irish Academy, [iii] 

6069. Royal Zoological Society of Ireland. [Has no library.] 

6071. St. Joseph's Cabra Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. 
[See also Deaf and Dumb Institution of Cabra.] [iJ 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 215 

Dunsiusk. 

G073. Observatory, [i] 

6075. " Urania," International Journal of Astronomy, [i] 

Ennis. 

6077. Public Library. 

Galway. 

6079. Library of Queen's College, [iii] 

Kilkenny. 

6081. Eoyal Historical and Archaeological A.ssociation of Ireland 
(packages to be addressed to Eev. J. Graves, care of 
McGlaslian & Gill, 50 Upper Sackville Street, Dub- 
lin, per Hayden & Co., Warwick Square, London, 

E. C). [i] 
Londonderry. 

6083. Magee College, [iii] 

Maynooth. 

6085. St. Patrick's College, [iii] 

Parsonstown. 

6087. Lord Eosse's Observatory. 

Valencia. 

6089. Observatory of the London Meteorological Office (address 
116 Victoria Street, London), [i] 

SCOTLAND. 

Aberdeen. 

6091. Dun Echt Observatory, [i] 
6093. Natural History Society, [i] 
6095. Philosophical Society. • [i] 
6097. University, [iii] 

Note. — All packages for Aberdeen can be sent care of Wyllie & 
Sons, Union Street, Aberdeen, per Hamilton & Co., Paternoster 
Row, London, E. C. 
Alloa. 

6099. Society of Natural Science and Archaeology, [i] 

Dumfries. 

6101. Dumfriesshire and Galloway Natural History and Anti- 
quarian Society, [i] 
Dundee. 

6103. Association of Watchmakers and Jewellers, [i] 

6105. Free Library and Museum, [i] 

6106. University College, [ii] 

Edinburgh. 

0107. Arizona Copper Company (12 Frederick Street.) 
6109. Ben Nevis Observatory. 



216 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Edinburgh — Continued. 

6111. Board of Northern Lighthouses, [i] 

6113. Botanical Society. [Has no library ; gives books to Royal 
Botanic Garden of Edinburgh.] 

6115. Caledonian Horticultural Society, [i] 

6117. Clarendon Historical Society. 

6119. Edinburgh Geological Society, [i] 

6121. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. 

6123. Edinburgh Museum. 

6125. Edinburgh Watt Institution and School of Arts, [i] 

6127. Faculty of Advocates, [iii] 

6129. Fishery Board for Scotland. 

6131. General Board of Lunacy, [i] 

6133. Geological Survey of Scotland, [i] 

6135. Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland, [i] 

6137. Horological Society of Edinburgh. 

6139. Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, [i] 

6141. Meteorological Society of Scotland, [i] 

6143. Museum of Science and Arts, [iii] 

6145. Pharmaceutical Society (North British Branch), [i] 

6147. Royal Botanic Garden of Edinburgh, [i] 

6149. Royal College of Physicians, [i] 

6151. Royal Institution for the Encouragement of Fine Arts in 
Scotland, [i] 

6153. Royal Observatory, [iii] 

6155. Royal Physical Society, [i] 

6157. Royal Scottish Society of Arts, [i] 

6159. Royal Society of Edinburgh, [iii] 

6161. Scottish Arboricultural Society, [i] 

6163. Scottish Fisheries Impro.vement Association. 

6165. Scottish Geographical Society. 

6167. Society of Antiquaries in Scotland. 

6169. Society of Writers to H. M. Signet, [ij 

6171. University Library, [iii] 

6173. University Fleming. 

6175. "The Scottish Naturalist." 

6177. "The Scotchman." 

[Note. — All packages for Edinburgli to care of Williams & Nor- 
gate, 14 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London, W. C] 
Glasgow. 

6179. Anderson's College (204 George Street). [1] 

6181. Archffiological Society (88 West Regent Street), [i] 

6183. Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow [formerly 
Glasgow and West of Scotland Medical Association] 
(care of James Hadden, 65 Sanchihall Street, Glas- 
gow, per Hayden & Co., Warwick Square, London, E. 
C). [iJ 



I 



I 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 217 

Glasgow — Continued. 

6185. Geological Society (7G Henderson Street), [i] 

6187. Glasgow University (care of Mr. Maclehose, Glasgow, per 

Mr. Billing, Ave Maria Lane, London, E. 0.). [iiij 
6189. Glasgow Medical Journal (care of James Hadden, 65 San- 

chihall Street, Glasgow, per Hayden & Co., Warwick 

Square, London, E. C). [i] 
6191. Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland, [i] 
6193. Mitchell Library (Ingram Street, East), [i] 
6195. ]S^atural History Society of Glasgow (207 Bath Street), [i] 
6197. Observatory, [i] 
6199. Philosophical Society (207 Bath Street), [iii] 

[Public Library of the City of Glasgow. (Identical with 

Mitchell Library.)] 
Hamilton. 

6201. The Mining Institution of Scotland. 

Kilmarnock. 

6203. Observatory, [i] 

ilontrose. 

6205. Montrose JSTatural History and Antiquarian Society, [i] 

Peebles. 

6207. The Chambers Institution (care of Messrs. W. & E. Cham- 
bers, Paternoster Eow, London, E. C). [i] 
Perth. 

6209. Murray Eoyal Institution, [i] 

6211. Perthshire Society of Natural Science, [i] 

6213. " Scottish Naturalist." 

St. Andrews. 

6215. University Library, [iii] 

WALES. 

Swansea. 

6217. [Central] Public Library. 

6219. Eoyal Institution of South Wales, [ij 

6221. South Wales Institute of Engineers, [i] 

Tenby. 

[Cambrian Archaeological Association. (Dissolved.)] 

Welshpool. 

6223. Powy's Land Club, [i] 

6225. Powy's Land Museum and Library. [iJ 

GREECE. 

Athens. 

6227. Cercle Litt^raire "Byron" ("75j/ro/i" Literary Circle), [ij 

6229. Government of Greece, [i] 

6231. Library of His Majesty the King, [iii] 



218 LIST OF FOEEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Athens — Continued. 

6233. Ministere de I'lnt^rieur. 

6235. Mus6e Botanique de I'Universit^ Natiouale {Botanical Mu- 
seum of the liational University), [i] 

[National Library. See United National and University 
Library.] 

6237. National Numismatic Museum. 

[National University. See United National and University 
Library.] 

6239. Natural History JVIuseum of the National Library, [i] 

6241. Observatory, [i] 

6243. Soci^t^ Arcb^ologique d'Atb^nes {Archwological Society of 
Athens), [i] 

6245. Soci6t6 Litteraire "Le Parnasse" {Parnassus Literary So- 
ciety), [i] 

6247. Soci6t6 M^dicale {Medical Society), [i] 

6249. United National and University Library, [iii] 

ICEIjAND. 

Akureyri. 

6253. The Northern Provincial Library, [i] 

Modruvellir. 

6255. Technical School, [i] 
Reykjavik. 

6257. Divinity School, [i] 

6259. Fornleifarfj^lag {Icelandic Archceological Society), [i] 

6261. Hid Islenzka B6kmentafj61ag' {Literary Society of Ice- 
land), [ij 
* 6263. Hinn l^edi skoli i Reykjavik {College of BeyhjaviJc). 

6265. Island's Stiptisbokasafn {Library of the Icelandic Dio- 
cese), [iii] 

6267. Medical School, [i] 

6269. National Library of Iceland, [i] 

6271. Natural History Museum of the College. 

6273. Pjodvinafj^lag {Society of Friends of the People). 

6275. Students' Library, [ij 

6277. Scientific Association of Iceland, [i] 

Stykkisholmur. 

6279. The Western Provincial Library, [i] 

ITAL.T. 

Arezzo. 

6281. Accademia Petrarca {Petrarca Academy), [formerly Accad- 
emia Valdarnese del Poggio]. [i] 
Bergamo. 

6283. Accademia Carrara di Belle Arti {Carrara Academy of Fine 
Arts), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 219 

Bergamo—Continued. 

0285. Ateueo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti di Bergamo {Bergamo 

Atheneum of Science, Letters, and Arts). [i\ 
6287. Municipio di Bergamo {City Government), [i] 
6289. Societa Industriale Bergamasca {Bergamo Industrial Soci- 
ety)- [i] 
Bologna. 

0291. Accademia delle Scienze dell' Istituto di Bologna {Academy 
of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna), [iii] 

6293. Archivos per la Zoologia, I' Anatoraia, e la Fisiologia 
{Archives of Zoology, Anatomy, and Physiology), [i] 

6295. Gabinetto di Anatomia dell' Universita {Anatomical Cab- 
inet of the University), [i] 

6297. Museo Civico {Puhlic Museum). 

6299. Museo di Geologia dell' Universita {Geological Museum of 
the University). [Wants all packages addressed to G. 
Capellini.J [i] 

6301. Osservatorio Astronomico {Astronomical Observatory), [i] 

6302. Keale Deputazione di Storia Patria per le Romagna {Royal 

Commissio7i for the National History of the Romagna). 

6303. Eepertorio Italiano per la Storia Naturale {Index of Natural 

History) . 

6305. Eepertorium Italianum di Bianconi {Italian Index of Bi- 
ancon). 

6307. Scuola Anatomica di Bologna {Anatomical School of Bo- 
logna), [i] 

6309. Societa Agraria della Provincia di Bologna {Agrarian So- 
ciety of the Province of Bologna), [i] 

6311. Societa Medico Chirurgica {Medico- Chirurgical Society), [i] 

6313. TJmver&it'X iM Bologna {University of Bologna), [i] 

Brescia. 

6315. Ateneo di Brescia {Atheneum of Brescia), [iii] 

0316. Eeale Istituto Tecnico {Royal Technical Institute), [i] 

Cagniola. 

[Fondazione Scientifica. (See Milan.)] 
Carrara. 

6317. Accademia Eeale di Belle Arti {Royal Academy of Fine 
Arts). 
Catania. 

6319. Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali {Gioenin. Academy 
of Natural Sciences), [iii] 
Cesena. 

6321. Comizio Agrario del Circondario {Agricultural Commit- 
tee), [i] 



220 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Firenze (Florence). 

6323. Archivio per 1' Antropologia e la Etnologia {Archives of 
Anthropology and Ethnology). 

6325. Biblioteca Marucelliana {Marucelliana Library), [i] 

6327. Biblioteca Nazionale {National Library), [iii] 

0329. Biblioteca Kicardiaua {Ricardiana Library), [i] 

6331. Biblioteca di Sua Maestd, il Re d' Italia {Library of His 
Majesty the King of Italy), [i] 

6333. II Circolo Filologico de Firenze {Philological Circle of Flor- 
ence). 

6335. Istituto di Studi Superiori in Firenze {Florence Institute of 
Higher Studies). \i\ 

6337. Istituto Geografico Militare {Military Geographical Insti- 
tute). 

6339. Istituto Topografico Militare {Military Topographical In- 
stitute), [i] 

6341. Museo Naziouale d' Antropologia e di Etnologia {National 
Museum of Anthropology and Ethnology), [i] 

6343. Kuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano {Neiv Italian Botanical 
Journal), [i] 

6345. "Opinione" {Opinion). 

6347. Osservatorio Astronomico di Arcetri {Astronomical Observ- 
atory), [i] 

6349. Osservatorio del Reale Museo {Observatory of the Royal 
Museum), [i] 
. 6351. Reale Accademia Delia Crusca {Royal Academy of Delia 
Crusca). [i] 

6353. Reale Accademia Economico-Agraria dei Georgoflli {Royal 
Economico- Agrarian Academy of Agriculturists), [i] 

6355. Reale Deputazione degli Studi di Storia Patria per le pro- 
vincie deUa Toscana, Umbria, e della Marche {Royal 
Commission for the Study of the History of the Provinces 
of Tuscany, Umbria, and Marche). fi] 

6367. Reale Museo di Fisico e Storia Naturale {Royal Museum of 
Physics and Natural History), [iiij 

6359. Reale Society Toscana di Orticoltura {Royal Tuscan Society 
of Horticulture). 

6361. Royal Italian Geological Commission. 

6363. Society Entomologica Italiana {Italian Entomological Soci- 
ety), [i] 

6305. Society Italiana di Antropologia, Etnologia, e Psicologia 
comparata {Italian Society of Anthropology, Ethnology, 
and Comparative Psychology), [i] 
Porli. 

6307. Diiezione deU' "Industriale Italiano" [Febo GherardiJ {The 
Office of Italian Industry), [ij 

6369. Giornale Agrario Italiano {Italian Agrarian Journal). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 221 

Geneva [Genoa). 

6371. Accademia delle Scienze, Letteie ed Arti {Academy of Sci- 
ences, Letters, and Arts), [iiij 

6373. Accademia Medico- CLiiurgica [Medico- Chirurgical Acad- 
emy), [i] 

6375. Museo Civico di Storia Naturale [Civic Museum of Natural 
History). [i| 

6377. Osservatorio della Reale University [Observatory of the 
Royal University), [i] 

6379. Eeale Accademia delle Scienze Medicale Genova [Royal 
Academy of Medical Sciences, of Genoa), [i] 

6381. Reale Istituto di Sordo-Muti [Royal Institute for the Deaf 
and Dumb), [i] 

6383. Eeale Istituto Tecnico e di Marina [Royal Technical and 
Naval Institute), [i] 

6385. Eeale Scuola Superiore Navale [Royal Naval College), [i] 
[Eeale Scuola di Marina [Royal Naval School). See Eegia 
Accademia Navale di Livorno.] 

6387. Eeale University [Royal University), [iiij 

6389. Society di Lettura e Conversazione Scientifiche [Society of 
Lectures and Scientific Conversations), [ij 

6391. Society Ligure di Storia Patria [Ligurian Society of National 
History), [i] 

6393. Uflficio Idrografico della Eegia Marina [Hydrographic Office 

of the Royal Navy), [i] 
Jesi. ^ 

6395. Comizio Agrario [Agricultural Committee), [i] 

Livorno [Leghorn). 

6396. Eegia Accademia Navale [Royal Naval Academy). [Sue 

ceeds the Naval Schools of Genoa and Naples.] [i] 
Lucca. 

6397. Eeale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti 

(Royal Lucca Academy of Science, Letters, and Arts), [in] 

Mantova [Mantua). 

6399. HealeAccadem'iSbYirgiliana, [Royal Virgilian Academy). \i] 

Messina. 

6401. " La Scienza Contemporanea " [Co-temporary Science), [i] 
6403. Eeale Accademia Carolina [Royal Carolina Academy), [i] 

Milano. 

6405. Accademia Fisico-MedicoStatistica di Milano [Physico- 
Medico- Statistical Academy of Milan), [i] 

6407. Accademia Scientiflco-Litteraria [Scientific Literary Acad- 
emy), [i] 

6409. Accademia Storico-Archeologica [Archaeological Academy). 



222 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Milano — Continued. 

6411. Annali Universali de Medicina e Chirurgia {Universal An- 
nals of Medicine and Surgery). 

6413. Biblioteca Ambrosiaua {Ambrose Library), [i] 

6415. Biblioteca Kaziouale di Brera {National Library of 
Brera). [iii] 
["Bolletino Scientitico" {Scientific Bulletin).] 
[Collegio degli Avvocati. (See Consiglio dell' Ordine degli 
Avvocati.] 

6417. Collegio degli Ingegneri ed Architetti ( College of Engineering 
and Architecture). \\] 

6419. Consiglio dell' Ordine degli Avvocati in Milano [via Silvio 
Pellico No. 8] {Law College). 
. 6421. Dirczione dell' " Bollettino Scientifico " [Corso Venezia 5]. 
{Scientific Bulletin), [i] 

6423. Direzione dell' "Italia Agricole" {The Italian Farmer), [i] 

6425. Fondazione Scientifica Caguola {Scientific Institution). 
[Branch of the E. Istituto Lombard o.] 

6427. Ulrico Hoepli, bookseller, [i] 

6429. Municipio di Milano {City Government of Milan), [i] 

6431. Museo Civico di Storia Naturale ( Civic Museum of Natural 
History), [i] 

6433. Museo di Storia Naturale dei Fratelli Villa {Natural His- 
tory Museum of the Fratelli Villa), [i] 

6435. Museo Patrio di Archeologia {Museum of National Archw- 
• ology). 

6437. OspitaleMaggioTediMHsbno {Grand Hospital of Milan), [ij 

6439. E. Aceademia di Belle Arti {Royal Academy of Fine Arts), [i] 

6441. E. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere {Royal histitute 
of Sciences and Letters of Lombardy). [iiij 

6443. E. Istituto dei Sordo-Muti {Royal Institute for the Deaf and 
Dumb), [i] 

6445. E. Istituto Tecnico-Superiore {Royal Technical College), [i] 

6447. E. Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera {Royal Astronomical 
Observatory of Brera). \\\ 

6449. E. Scuola Superiore di Agricoltura {Royal Agricultural Col- 
lege), [i] 

6451. E. Scuola Superiore di Medicina Yeterinaria {Royal College 
of Veterinary Medicine), [i] 

6453. Society Agraria di Lombardia {Agrarian Society of Lorn- 
hardy), [i] 

6455. Society Crittogamologica Italiana {Italian Cryptogamical 
Society). 

6457. Society Generale degli Agricolturi Italiani {Italian Society 
of Agriculture). 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS 223 

Milano — Continued. 

6459. SocietiY Geologica {Geological Society). 

6461. Society d'lucoraggiamento di Arti e Mestieri {Society for 

the Encouragement of Arts and the Trades), [i] 
6463. Societa Italiana d' Igiena [via Santi Andrea 18] {Italian 
Society of Hygiene), [ij 
, 6465, Society Italiana di Scienze Naturali {Italian Society of Nat- 

ural Sciences), [i] 
6467. Society Patriotica {Patriotic Society), [i] 

6469. Societa Storica Lombardia {Lombardian Historical Society). 

[i] 
Modena. 

6470. Comizio Agrario {Agricultural Commission), [i] 

6471. Osservatorio {Observatory), [i] 

6473. E. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti {Royal Academy 
of Sciences., Letters., and Arts), [i] 

6475. E. Stazione Agraria Sperimentale {Royal Agricultural 
Experimental Station). \i\ 

Q^ll. E. University {Royal University). [iJ 

6479. Societa Medico-Chirurgica {Medico- Ghirurgical Society), [i] 

6481. Societa Meteorologica Italiana {Italian Meteorological So- 
ciety), [i] 

6483. Society di Naturalisti in Modena {Society of Naturalists in 

Modena). [i] 
Modica. 

6485. Osservatorio Meteorologico(ilfe<eoroZo(7ica^ Observatory), [i] 
6487. E. Istituto Tecnico di Modica {Royal Technical Institute of 
Modica). [i] 
Moncalieri. 

6489. E. Osservatorio del E. Collegio C. Alberto {Observatory of 
the Royal College C. Alberto), [i] 
Montevarchi. 

6491. R. Accademia Valdarnese del Poggio {Valdarnese Acad- 
emy of Poggio). [i] 
Napoli {Naples). 

6493. Accademia degli Aspirant! Naturalist! {Academy of Ama- 
teur Naturalists). [iJ 
6495. Accademia Pontaniana {Pontaniana Academy), [i] 
6497. Accademia delle Scienze {Academy of Sciences). 
• 6499. Associazione Italiana della Croce Eossa {Italian Society of 
the Red Cross). 
6501. Biblioteca N'azionale {National Library), [iii] 
6503. Biblioteca Provinziale {Provincial Library). |iii] 
6505. Club Africana [via Nuova Monteo Civeto 2oj {Afri<;an Club). 
6507. Direzione degli '' Annali Clinic! '? [via Incurabili, o nell' Ospe- 
dale] {Clinical Annals). \l] 



224 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Napoli (Naples) — Continued. 

6509. Direzione "L' Esploiazioue " — Kassegua Geogratica (The 
Exploration, Geographical Review) [via Eoma, gli To- 
ledo, 416]. 

6511. Istitnto di Belle Arti di ifapoli {Neapolitan Institute of Fine 
Arts), [ij 

651.3. "II Morgagni". 

6515. Museo Kaaionale di Napoli {National Museum of Naples). [ i ] 

6517. R. Accademia di Archeologia, Lettere e Belle Arti {Royal 
Academy of Archaeology , Letters, and Fine Arts), [i] 

6519. R. Accademia Ereolanese di Archeologia {Royal Hcrculanea n 
Academy of Archaeology), [iii] 

6521. R. Accademia Medico-Chirurgica {Royal Medico- Ghirurgical 
Academy), [i] 

6523. R. Accademia delle Scienze e Belle Lettere {Royal Acad- 
emy of Sciences and Belles Lettres). [iii] 

6525. R. Accademia di Scienze Fisiche e Mateibatici {Royal 
Academy of Physical and Mathematical Sciences), [i] 

6527. R. Istituto d' Incoraggiamento delle Scienze Naturali, Econ- 
omiche e Tecuologiche {Royal Institute for the Promotion 
of Natural, Economical, and Technical Sciences), [i] 

6529. R. Orto Botanico {Royal Botanical Garden), [i] 

6531. R. Osservatorio Capo di Monte {Royal Observatory), [i] 

6533. R. Osservatorio Meteorologico Vesuviano {Royal Vesuvian 
Meteorological Observatory). [i\ ' 

6535. R. Scuola Superiore di Medicina Veterinaria {Royal Veteri- 
nary College), [i] 

6537. R. University {Royal University), [i] 

6539. Society Reale di Napoli {Royal Society of Naples), [i] 

6541. Stazione Zoologica di Napoli {Zoological Station), [i] 

Novara. 

6543. Biblioteca Civica {Oity Library), [i] 

Padova (Padua). 

6545, "Gazzetta Medica Italiana" (Italian Medical Gazette). [iJ 
6547. Osservatorio Astrouomico dell' Universita (Astronomical 

Observatory of the University), [i] 
6549. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti di Padova (Royal 
Academy of Sciences, Letters, and Arts, of Padua), [iii] 
6551. R. Universita di Padova (Royal University of Padua), [i] 
6553. Society d' Incoraggiamento per I'agricoltura e I'industria 
nella provinica di Padova, e Gabinetto di lettnra (So- 
ciety for the Micotiragement of Agriculture and Industry 
in Padua), [i] 
6555. Society Veneto-Trentiua di Scienze Naturali (Veneto- Tren- 
tina Society of Natural Sciences), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN COfiRESPONDENTS. 225 

Palermo. 

6557. Accademia Palermitana di Scieiize e Lettere {Palermian 
Academy of Sciences and Letters), [iii] 

6559. Biblioteca Nazionale {National Library), [ij 

6561. "Gazzetta Cliimica Italiaua" {Italian Chemical Gazette). 

6563. "II Natnraliste SiciliaDo" {The Sicilian Naturalist). 

6565. Orto Botauico {Botanical Garden), [i] 

6567. E. Istituto Tecnico {Royal Technical Institute), [ij 

6569. E. Osservatorio {Boyal Observatory). 

6571. Societa d' Acclimazione e di Agricoltura in Sicilia {Society 
of Acclimation and Agriculture in Sicily). [iJ 

6573. Societa di Scienze Naturali ed Economiche {Society of Nat- 
ural and Economical Sciences), [i] 

6575. Stazione Chimico-Agraria Sperimeiitale di Palermo {Ohem- 

ico- Agricultural Experimental Station of Palermo), [i] 
Faroma. 

6577. Bolletino di Paleontologia Italiana {Italian Faleontological 

Bulletin). 
6579. E. Biblioteca {Royal Library), [i] 
6581. E. Orto Botauico {Royal Botanical Garden), [i] 
6583. E. Osservatorio Astronomico {Royal Astronomical Observa. 

tory). [i] 
6585. TJniversita di Parraa {University of Parma), [ij 
6587. Museo di Storia Naturale {Natural History Museum). 
Pavia. 

6589. Accademia Malaspiiia {Malaspina Academy), [i] 
6591. Central Physical Observatory. 
6593. E. Universita {Royal University), [i] 

Pesaro. ♦ 

6595. Accademia Agraria di Pesaro {Agrarian Academy of Pe- 
saro). [i] 
6597. Osservatorio Meteorologico e Magnetico Valerio ( Valeria 

Meteorological and Magnetical Observatory), [i] 
Pisa. 

6599. Direzione del Nuovo Giornale Botunico Italiano {The New 
Italian Botanical Journal), [i] 

6601. "II Nuovo Cimento." 

6603. E. ScuolaNormale Superiore {Royal Normal High School), [i] 

6605. Society Malacologica Italiana {Italian Malacological So- 
ciety), [i] 

6607. Society, Toscana di Scienze ifaturali {Tuscan Society of Nat- 
ural Sciences), [i] 

6609. University (University), [iii] 
Pistoja. 

6611 . E. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti {Royal Academy 
of Sciences, Letters^ and Arts). [iJ 
H. Mis. 15 15 



226 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Portici. 

G613. El. Scnola Superiore d' Agricoltura {Royal Agricultural 

College). 
Ravenna. 

6C15. Accademia di Belle Arti (^c«(fewyo/^i«e AWs). [i] 

6617. Societa Kavemiata {Ravenna Society), [i] 

Roma. 

6621. Accademia dell' Arcadia d' Archeologia et del Nuovi Lincei 
{Arcadian Academy of Archaeology), [i] 

6623. Accademia Poiitificia dei Nuovi Lincei {Pontifician Acad- 
emy), [iii] 

6625. Accademia Eomana di Archeologia {Roman Academy of 
Archceology). [i] 

6627. Biblioteca Vaticana ( Vatican Library), [iii] 

6629. Biblioteca !N^azionale Vittorio Emanuele ( Victor Emanuel 
National Library), [iii] 

6631. British Academy of Fine Arts, [i] 

6633. British and American Archaeological Society, [i] 

6635. " Bolletino Ampelografico " {AmpelograpMc Bulletin), [i] 

6637. Commissione Archeologica Communale {Archwological Com- 
mission), [i] 

6639. Comitato d' Artiglieria ed Ingegneri ( Committee of Artillery 
and Engineering), [i] 

6641. Corrispondenza Scientifica in Eoma {Scientific Correspond- 
ence in Rome), [i] 

6643. Direzzione della "Nuova Antologia di Scieuze, Lettere ed 
Arti" {The New Anthology of Science^ Letters^ and 
Arts), [i] 

6645. Direzzione del " Giornale del Genio Civile" {Journal of Civil 
Engineering), [i] 

6647. Direzzioue del "Periodicodi Numismatica e Sfragistica per 
la Storia d' Italia" {Periodical of Italian Numismatics 
and Engravings), [i] 

6649. Direzzioue della Statistica Generale del Eegno [formerly 
Ufificio di Statistica Generale] {Statistical Bureau), [i] 

6651. Imperiale Istituto Archeologlco Germauico {Imperial Ger- 
man Archwological Institute), [i] 
[Istituto de Corrispondenza Archeologica. (Now called 
Imperiale Istituto Archeologico Germauico.)] 

6653. Istituto Scieutifico della E. Universita {Scientific Institute 
of the Royal University), [i] 

6655. Ministero di Agricoltura, Industria e Commercia {Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Industry, and Commerce), [iii] 

6657. Ministero della Finanze {Department of Finanqe). [i] 

6659. Ministero della Guerra {Department of War), [i] 

6661. Ministero delF Interno {Department of the Interior). |i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 227 

Roma — Continued. 

6663. Ministero delP Istruzione Pubblica (Department of Fuhlic 

Instruction), [i] 
6665. Ministero dei Lavori Pubblici {Department of Public Worlds). 

[i] 
6667. Ministero della Marina {Department of Marine), [i] 

6669. Ministero per gli Affari Esteri {Department of Foreign 
Affairs). 

6671. Museo Nazionale Preliistorico ed Etnographico (Rational 
Prehistoric and UthnograpJiic Museum), [i] 

6673. Ospedali {Hospital), [i] 

6675. Osservatorio Astronomico del Oolegio Eomano {Astronomi- 
cal Observatory of the Roman College), [i] 

6677. E. Accademia dei Lincei (Royal Academy of Lincei). [iiij 

6679. E. Istituto Eisico-Patologico di Eoma (Roman Institute of 
Physico-Pathology). [i] 

6681. E. Comitato Geologic© d' Italia {Royal Geological Committee 
of Italy), [i] 

6683. E. Museo Industriale Italiano {Royal Italian Industrial 
Museum), fi] 

6685. E. Orto Botanico {Royal Botanical Garden), [i] 

6687. E. Scuola di Applicazione per gl' Ingegneri {Royal School 

of Practical Engineering), [i] 

6688. E. Societa Didasciilica Italiana. {Royal Didactic Society.) 

m 

6689. Eevista di Filologia Eomana {Revieio of Roman Philology). 
6G91. Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiani {Society of Italian 

Spcctroscopists). [i] 
6693. Society Geographica Italiana {Italian Geographical Society). 

[i] 
6695. Societa Italiana della Scienze {Italian Society of Sciences) 

[iiiJ 

6697. UfBcio Centrale di Meteorologia Italiana {Central Office of 

Italian Meteorology), [i] 

6698. UfBcio degli Scauibi Internazionali (Italiani Bureau of In- 

ternational Exchanges. [3 via del Colegio Eomano, 
Biblioteca Nazionale, Yittorio Emanuele.] [i] 
[TJfBcio di Statistica Generale. (See Direzzione, &c.)] 
Sienna. 

6699. E. Accademia dei Fisiocritici (Royal Academy of Critical 

Physiology), [i] 
6701. Osservatorio dell' Universita {University Observatory), fi] 
6703. Universita ( University), [i] 
6705. Direzzioue d'Artiglieria e Torpedini {Director of Artillery 

and Torpedoes), [i] 



228 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Torino {Turin). 

6707. Accademia Eeale di Agricoltura {Royal Academy of Agricul- 
ture), [i] 

6709. Accademia Eeale Medico Chirurgica {Royal Medico- Chirur- 
gical Academy), [ij 

6711. Accademia Eeale delle Scienze (Royal Academy of Sciences). 
[iiij 

6713. Biblioteca Nazionale (National Library), [i] 

6715. Circolo Geografico Italiano {Italian Geographical Circle), [i] 

6717. Club Alpino {Alpine Club). 

6719. Direzzione di "Cosmos" [Guido Cora], [i] 

6721. Direzzione de " Eevista Filosofia Scientiiica" [via della 
Scnola 5J {Review of FhilosopJiical Science), [i] 

6723. Mnseo Mineralogico di Torino {Mineralogical Museum of 
Turin). 

6725. E. Accademia Albertina di Belle Arti {Royal Alhertina 
Academy of Fine Arts), [i] 

6727. E. Accademia di Mediciua {Royal Academy of Medicine), [i] 

6729. E. Deputazione sovra gli Studi di Storia Patria {Royal 
Commission on the Study of Natural History), [i] 

6731. E. Museo Industriale Italiano di Torino {Royal Industrial 
Museum of Turin), [i] 

6733. E. Museo di Storia Naturale {Royal Museum of Natural His- 
tory), [i] 

6735. E. Mnseo Zoologico di Torino {Royal Zoological Museum of 
Turin), [i] 

6737. E. Osservatorio Astronomico dell' TJuiversita {Royal Astro- 
nomical Observatory of the University) [formerly Osserv- 
atorio dell' TJniversitaJ. [iJ 

6739. E. Scuola d' Applicazione per gli Ingegneri {Royal School of 
Practical Engineering), [i] 

6741. E. Scuola Superiore di Medicina Veterinaria {Royal College 
of Veterinary Medicine), [i] 

6743. Scuola di Guerra {School of War), [i] 

6745. Scuola del Stato Maggiore {Staff School), [i] 

6747. Society degli Ingegneri e degli Industriale {Society of Engi- 
neers and Manufacturers), [i] 

6749. J]m.Ye,v&\t2b {University), [i] 

Treviso. 

6751. Biblioteca Communale {City Library). 

6753. E. Istituto Tecnico {Royal Technical Institute), [i] 

L'dine. 

6755. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti {Academy of Sci- 
ences ^ Letters, and Arts). 



LIST OF FOKEIGN COREESPONDENTS. 229 

Udine — Continued. 

6757. Associazione Agraria Friulana {Friulan Agrarian Asso 

ciation). [i] 
6759. E. Istituto Tecnico {Royal Technical Institute). \i] 
6761. Stazione Sperimentale Agraria {Affrarian Experimental Sta- 
tion), [i] 
Urbino. 

6763. Osservatorio Meteorologico (ilfe^eoroZo^icai Observatory), [ij 

Venezia ( Venice). 

6765. Associazione Venetadi Utilita Tnhblica: {Venetian Associa- 
tion of Fiihlic Utility). 
C767. Ateneo Veneto ( Venetian AtJienwum). \i] 
6769. Biblioteca Marciana {Mardana Library), [iii] 
6771. Biblioteca iN^azionale de San Marco {Rational Library of 

Saint Marc). \i] 
6773. Istituto Armeno dei Mecliitaristi {Mechitaristen College). 

[iiij 
6775, E. Accademia di Belle Arti {Royal Academy of Fine Arts). 

[i] 
6777. E. Istituto Yeneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti ( Venetian 

Institute of Sciences y Letters, and Arts), [iii] 
6779. Society VenetoTrentinadi Scienze Naturali(Tren;ft«e Vene- 
tian Association of Natural Sciences), [i] 
Verona. 

6781. Accademia d' Agricoltura, Commercio ed Arti di Verona 
{A cademy of Agriculture, Commerce, and Arts of Verona). 
[iii] 
6783. Biblioteca Commuuale {City Library), [i] 
6785. Society Italiana delle Scienze {Italian Society of Sciences). 

Vicenza. 

6787. Accademia Olimpica di Agricoltura, Scienze, Lettere ed 
Arti {Olympic Academy of Agriculture, Sciences, Let 
ters, and Arts), [i] 
6789. Biblioteca Pubblica {Public Library), [i] 

ISTETHEKIiAlSrDS. 

Amsterdam. 

6791. Aardrijkskundig Genootschap {Geographical Society), [i] 
6793. Commission voor de Geologiscbe Kaart van Xederland 
I {Commission for the Geological Map of Netherlands). 

6795. Genootschap ter Bevordering der Natuur-, Genees- en Heel 
kunde {Society for Fromoting Natural, Medical, and 
Chirurgical Sciences), [i] 
6797. Koninklijke AkadeQiie van Wetenschappen {Royal Acad- 
emy of Sciences), [iii J 



230 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Amsterdam — Continued. 

[Koninklijke Genootscliap van Natauurkundige Weten- 

schappen. (See Genootschap ter Bevordering der 

Natuur-, Genees- en Heelkuude.)] 

[Koninklijke Instituut. (See Koninklijke Akademie van 

Wetenschappen.)] 

6799. Koninklijke Zoologisch Genootschap " Natura Artis Ma- 

gistra" [Royal Zoological Society), [iiij 
6801. " Handels-Blad " [Journal of Commerce). 

[Landkundige Genootschap. (See Aardrijskundig Genoot- 
schap.)] 
6803. Maatschappij : "Tot Bevordering der Bouwkunst" (/S^oeiefy 

for the Encouragement of Architecture), [iii] 
6805. Maatschappij : "Tot Nut van't Algemeen" [Society for the 
Benefit of all Classes), [i] 

6807. Nederlandsche Maatschappij ter Bevordering der Phar- 

macie [Netherlands Association for the Promotion of 
Pharmacy), [i] 

6808. Eevue Coloniale Internationale [International Colonial 'Re- 

view), [i] 

6809. Eijks Akademie van Beeldeude Kunsten [National Acad- 

emy of Fine Arts), [i] 
[Stads Bibliotheek [City Library). (See Universiteits Bib- 
liotheek.)] 

6811. Statistisch Instituut in Nederland [Statistical Bureau), [i] 

6813. Universiteits Bibliotheek [formerly Stads Bibliotheek] 
( University Library), [iii] 
[Vereenigiug voor Statistiek. - (See Statistische Instituut.)] 

6815. Vereeniging voor de Flora van Nederland [Botanical So- 
ciety). 

6817. Vereeniging voor Volksvlijt [Association for Popular In- 
dustry), [i] 

6819. "Volksvlijt:" Tijdschrift voor Nijverheid, Landbow, Han- 
del en Scheepvaart [Journal of Industry^ Agriculture, 
Commerce, and Navigation). 

6821. Wiskundig Genootschap : " Onvermoeide Arbeid komt 
alles te boven" [Scientific Society: ^^ Untiring Industry 
Overcomes AlV). [iii] 

Arnhem [Gelderland). 

6823. Natuurkundig Genootschap: "Tot Nut en Vergenoegen" 
[Natural History Society : " Utility and Amusem&aV). 

[iJ 
6825. Openbare Bibliotheek [Public Library), [i] 

Bois-le-Duc. 

[Soci6t6 des Arts et Sciences. (See 'S Hertogenbosch.)] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 231 

Breda {Noord Braband). 

6827. Koniiiklijke Militaire Akademie {Royal Military Academy)^ 

[i] 
Delft. 

G829. Polytechnische School {Polytechnic School), [i] 

Deventer {Overyssel). 

6831. Openbare Bibliotheek {Public Library), [i] 

'S Gravenhage [The Hague] {Zuid Holland). 

6833. Board of Fisheries. 

6835. Bureau voor Statistiek {Statistical Bureau), [i] 

6837. Commission G6oddsique N^erlandaise {Geodetic Commis- 
sion). 

6839. Haagsche Geuootschap tot Verdediging van den Christlij- 
ken Godsdienst {Haagsch Society for the Vindication of 
the Christian Religion), [i] 

6841. InstitntTo^ogvsi^hiqnQ {Topographical Institute). 

6843. Koninklijk Bibliotheek {Royal Library), [iii] 

6845. Koninklijk lustituut van Ingenieurs {Royal Institute of En- 
gineers), [iii] 

6847. Koninklijk Instituut voor de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde 
van ISTederlandsch Indie {Royal Institute for Philology, 
Geography., and Ethnography of Dutch India), [iiij 

6849. Koninklijk Zoologisch-Botanisehe Genootschap te 'S Gra- 
venhage {Royal Zoological Botanical Society of the 
Hague), [i] 

6851. Library of the States General. 

6853. Minist^re de rint6rieur {Department of the Interior). 

[NederlandscheEntomologischeYereeuiging. (See Leiden.)] 

6855. Nederlandscbe Eegeering {Government of the Netherlands). 

[i] 
Groningen. 

[Academia Groningana. (See Rijks Universiteit.)] 
6857. Genootschap pro excolendo Jure Patrio {Society for the Cul- 
tivation of National Jurisprudence), [i] 
6859. Instituut voor Doofstommen {Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb), [i] 
6861. Natuurkundig Genootschap {Natural History Society), [i] 
6863. Eijks Universiteit {National University) [formerly Academia 
Groningana]. [iii] 

Haarlem {Noord Holland). 

6865. Archives N^erlandais {Netherlands Archives), [i] 

[Bataviaasch Genootschap {Batavian Society).] [i] 
6867. Fondation de F.-Teyler van der Hulst {Teyler Institu- 
tion), [ij 



232 LIST OF FOREIGN COEKESPONDENTS. 

Haarlem {Noord EoUand) — Coutinued. 

C8G9. Hollaudsche Maatschappij van WetenschappeD {Holland 
Society of Sciences), [iii] 
[Jlinistere de I'lnt^rieur — in 'S Gravenliage]. 
6871. Nederlandsche Maatschappij ter BevorderiDg van Nijver- 
heid {Society for the Promotion of Industry), [i] 
[Openbare Bibliotiieek. (See Stads' Bibliotheek.)] 
6873. StadsBibliotheek ( 6'% X^'ftrar^). [iii] 

'S Hertogenboscli (Noord Brabant). 

6875. Proviuciaal Geuootschap van Kuusten en Wetenschappen 
in Kooid Braband {Provincial Society of Arts and Sci- 
ences in North Brabant), [i] 

Hoorn {Noord Holland). 

6877. Societas Medico-Physica Hornana {Medico Physical Society 
of Hoorn). [i] 
[Cercle Agricole et Horticole {Agricultural and Horticult- 
ural Society.)] 

[Luxembourg. (See under Germany.)] 

Leeu warden {Friesland). 

6879. Friessch Genootschap voor Gescliied-, Oudheid en- Taalk- 
uude {Friesland Society of History, Antiquity, and Phil- 
ology), [i] 

Leiden {Zuid Holland). 

6881. Bureau Scientifique Central Keerlandais {Central Scientific 
Bureau) [Haarlem mer Straat 12]. [i] 
[Academia Lugduno-Batava. (See Eijks Universiteit.)] 

6883. Maatschappij van Nederlaudsche Letterkunde {Society of 
the Literature of the Netherlands), [i] 

6885, "Mnemosyne." 

6887. Nederlandsche Botanische Vereeniging {Netherlands Botan- 
ical Society), [ij 

6889. Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging {Netherlands Zoo- 
logical Society), [i] 

6891. Nederlandsche Entomologische Vereeniging {Netherlands 
Entomological Society), [i] 

6893. Eijks Ethnographiscli Museum {Boyal Ethnographical Mu- 
seum), [i] 

6895. Eijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie {Royal Museum of 
Natural History), [i] 

6897. Eijks Museum van Oudheden {Royal Museum of Antiqui- 
ties), [i] 

6899. Eijks Observatorium {Royal Observatory), [i] 

6901. Eijks Herbarium {Royal Herbarium). [iJ 



LIST. OF FOKEIGW CORRESPONDENTS. 233 

Leiden {Zuid Holland) — Coutinued. 

G903. Rijlis Universiteit {Boyal University), [iii] 
6905. Stolpiaanscb Legaat {Stolp's Legacy), fi] 

[Universitas Lugdimo-Batava. (See Rijks IJDiversiteit.)] 
6907. Tijdschrift voor Eutomologie {Entomological Journal). 
6909. Zoologiscli Station der Nederlaudscbe Dierkundige Yer- 
eeDigiug {Netherlands Zoological Garden). 

Maastricht. 

6911. Provinciaal Bureau van Statistiek {Provincial Bureau of 

Statistics). 
6913. Vereeniging ter Bevorderiug van Tuin en Landbouw (dis- 
sociation for the Promotion of Horticulture and Agricul- 
ture), [i] 

Middelburg {Zealand). 

6915. Zeeuwscb Genootscbap van Wetenscbappen {Zealand Soci- 
ety of Sciences), [iii] 

6917. Provinciaale Bibliotbeek van Zeeland {Provincial Library 
of Zealand), [i] 

Rotterdam {Zuid Holland). 

6919. Bataafscb Genootscltap van Proefonder vindelijke Wijsbe- 
geerte {Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy). 
[iii] 

6921. Inrigting voor Doofstommen Onderwijs {Institute for the 
Deaf and Dumh). [ij 

6923. Lees Kabinet {Reading Boom). 

[Nederlandscbe Tacbt Club {Netherlands Yacht Club).] 

6925. Soci6t6 Neerlandaise de Zoologie {Netherlands Zoological 

Society). 

Schiedam {Zuid Holland). 

6926. Natuurkundige Vereeniging "Martinet" {^^ 3£artinet" So- 

ciety of Natural Sciences), [i] 
Utrecht. 

[Academia Rbeno-Trajectina. (See Eijks Universiteit.)] 

6927. Arcbiv fiir Hollandische Beitrage zur Natur- und Heil- 

kunde {Archives of Holland Contributions to Natural 

and Medical Sciences), [i] 
6929. Historiscb Genootscbap {Historical Society), [iii] 
6931. Koninklijk Kederlandscbe Meteorologiscb Instituut {Royal 

Dutch Meteorological Lnstitute). [i] 
6933. Observatorium {Observatory). [i| 

6935. Pbysiologisch Laboratorium {Physiological Laboratory), [i] 
6937. Provinciaal TJtrechtsch Genootscbap van Kunsten en We- 

tenschappen {Provincial Society of Arts and Sciences). 

[iii] 



234 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Utrecht — Continued. 

6939. Rijks Veeartseiiij school [Royal Veterinary School), [i] 
6941. Rijks dniversiteit {Royal University), [iii] 

[Utrechtscbe Hoogescaool. (See Rijks Universiteit.)] 

ZwoUe (Overijssel). 

6943. Overijsselsche Vereeniging tot Ontwikkeliug van Provin- 
ciaale Welvaart {Overyssel Society for the Promotion of 
Provincial Welfare), [iii] | 

6945. Yereening tot Beoefening van Overijsselsch Eegt en Ge- 
schiedenis (Society for the Cultivation of Overyssel 
Jurisprudence and History), [i] 

6947. "Vriend van den Landman" {^'■Friend of the Agricultur- 
ist), [ij 
Wageningen. 

6949. Landbouw School [Agricultural School). 



li 



NORWAY. 

Areudal. 



Bergen, 



6951. Arendals Skoles oflfentlige Bibliothek og Museum [Free 
Public Library and Museum), [i] 
[Arendals Museum. (See Arendals Skoles offentlige Bibli- 
othek og Museum.)] 

[Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab. (In Christi- 
ania.)] 
6953. Bergen Museum [Bergen Museum), [iii] 
6955. Bergens Offentlige Bibliothek [Bergen Free Library). 
6957. Medicinske Revue [[3Ionthly] Medical Review). 
6959. Observatoriet [[Astronomical and I^autical] Observatory). 

[i] 
6961. Selskabet for de Norske Fiskeries Fremme [Association 

for the Promotion of the Norwegian Fisheries), [i] 



Christiania. 



[Afdelingfor Geologiske Undersogelse. (See Den Geolog- 

iske Undersogelse.)] 
[Archaeological Museum. (See Det Kongelige Norske 
Frederiks Universitet.)] 
6963. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab [Archives of 

Mathematics arid Natural Sciences), [i] 
6965. Archiv for Nordisk Filologie [Archives of Northern Phi- 
lology), [i] 
[Association G^od^sique Internationale. (See Den Norske 
Gradmaalings Kommission.)] ? 

6967. Den Geographiske Opmaaling [Royal Coast and Geograph- 
ical Survey). [iJ 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 235 

Christiania — Continued. 

69G9. Den Geologiske Undersogelse {Royul Geological Sur- 
vey), fij 

6971. Den Noiske Forstforening {The Norwegian Association of 
Forestry), [i] 

6973. Den Norske Giadmaaliug Kommission {The Nortcegian Geo- 
detic Commission), [i] 

6975. Den Korske Historiske Forening {The Norwegian Histor- 
ical Association). ['J 

6977. Den Norske Ingenior og Arcbitekt Forening {Society of 
Norwegian Engineers and Architects), [i] 

6979'. Den Korske Turist Forening {Alpine Club oj Norway). \\] 
[Departementet for det Indre. (See Indre Departementet.)] 

6981. Det Kongelige Norske Kirke og Uudervisuings Departe- 
mentet {Royal Norwegian Department of Worship and 
Education), [i] 

6983. Det Kongelige Norske Frederiks XJniversitet {Royal Nor- 
wegian Frederick University), [iiij 

6985. — Astronomical Observatory, [i] 

6987. Collection of Coins and Medals. 

6989. Laboratory of Chemistry. 

6991. Library of the University. 

. 6993. Museum of Anatomy. 

6995. Museum of Botany, 

6997. Museum of Ethnological Objects and National Eth- 
nography. 

6999. Museum of Old Northern Antiquities. 

7001. Museum of Zoology. 

7003. Det Norske Medicinske Selskab {The Norwegian Medical 
Society), [i] 

7005. Det Meteorologiske Listitut {Meteorological Office), [i] 

7007. Det Norske Samlag {The Norslce Society). 

7009. Det Statistiske Centralbureau {Statistical Bureau), [ij 

7011. Foreign Office. [iJ 

7013. Forening for Dialekter og Folketraditioner {Association for 
Norwegian Dialect and Folklore). 

7015. Forening til Norske Fortidsmindersmerkers Bevaring {As- 
sociation for the Preservation of Old Korske Antiquities 
and Monuments), [i] 

7017. Generalfelttojmestern {Great Master of the Ordnance). 

7019. luihQ T>Q^AvtQmQ,i\tQ,t {Department of the Interior), [i] 

[Institution g^ographique de Norv^ge et la section topo- 
graphique de I'^tat major g^ndral {Geographical In- 
stitute &c.). (See Den Geografiske Opmaaling.)] 

7021. Kongelige Bibliothek {Royal Library), [i] 

[Kongelige Selskabet for Norges Vel. (See Selskab for 
Norges Vel.)] 



236 LIST OF FOREIGN COPtRESPONDENTS. 

Christiania — Continued. 

7023. Kristiiuiia Blinde lustitut {Christiania Institution for the 
Blind). [\] 
[MediciuiskeSelskab. (SeeDetKc^skeMedicinskeSelskab.)] 
7025. Militaere Samfuud {Military Society), [i] 
7027. "Naturen" {Nature), [i] 

7029. l^ordhavse Expeditiouens Eedactions Coinite {Public Com- 
mittee of the Noru'egian North Atlantic Expedition), [i] 
[Norjies Geograliske Opmaaling. {See Den Geographiske 

Opmaaliiig.)! 
[Norske Histoiiske Foreuiug {Noricegian Historical Society). 

(See Den Norske Historiske Forening.)] 
[Norske Meteorologiske Institut. (See Det Meteorologiske 
Institnt.)] 
7031. Korske Oldskrift Selskab {Noricegian Antiquarian So- 
ciety), [i] 
7033. Norsk lietstideude {Review of Laws and Sentences of the 

Supreme Court). 
7035. Norske ^2igibvev'Fovem.ng{Norwegian Lawyers' Society), [i] 
[Norske Tourist Forening. (See Den Norske Turist 
Forening.)] 
7037. Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskabernes {Quarterly Magazine 
of Natural Sciences), [i] , 

[Physiograpbiske Forening. ^Dissolved.)] 
7039. Polytekniske Forening {Polytechnic Society), [ij 

[Parliamentary Library. (See Stortbingets Bibliothek.)j 
7041. 'Si\g,&divk.i\&t {The Boyal Archives of Norway), [i] 
7043. Rigsbospitalet {Boyal Infirmary). 
7045. Selskabet for Folkeoplysningens Fremme {Society for the 

Promotion of Knowledge). 
7047. Selskab for Norges Vel {Royal Society for the Promotion of 

the Wealth of Norway), [i] 
7049. Selskabet for Norges Fiskeries {Norwegian Fishery So- 
ciety), [i] 
[Satistiske Central Bureau. (See Det Statistiske Central- 
bureau.)] 
7051. Stortbingets Bibliotbek {Parliamentary Library), [i] 
7053. Theo\og\^\LQ,Vovm\mg {Theological Society). ]ij 
7055. Theologisk Tidsskrift {Quarterly Journal of Theology), [ij. 
7057. Tidskrift for Praktisk Medicin {Fortnightly Beview of Prac- 
tical Medicine), [i] 
[Topografiske og Hydrografiske Afdeling. (See Den Geog- 

rapbiske Opmaaling.)] 
[TJniversitets Observatoriet. (See K. N. Fred. TJniversitet.) | 
7059. Videnskabs Selskabet {Academy of Sciences). [1] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. '2lM 

Christiansand. 

7001. KathedralskolensOftentlijje Bibliothek {Free Public Library 
of the Cathedral School), [ij 

Frederikshald. * 

7063. Frederikshald Stadsbibliothek {Free Town Library), [i] 
Horten. 

7065. Somilitaere Samfund {Society of Naval Officers), [i] 

Stavanger. 

7067. Det Norske Missions Selskab {Norwegian Missionary Society 
[for the Promotion of Christianity among the Pagan 
Tribes of South Africa and Madagascar]). [\\ 

7069. Free Public Library, [i] 

7071. Stavanger Museum {Museum of Zoology and Antiquities). 

Trondhjem. 

7073. Det Kongelige Norske Videuskabernes Selskab {Boyal Nor- 
wegian Society of Sciences), [iii] 
Tromso. 

7075. Tromso Kommunale Bibliothek {Tromso Free Town Li- 
brary). 
7077. Tromso MnseviJQ {Tromso Museum), [i] 

POETUGAI,. 

Coimbra. 

7079. Effemerides Astronomicas {Astronomical Ephemeris). [i] 

7081. Instituto de Coimbra {Institute of Coimbra). [iJ 

7083. Observatorio Macnetico-Meteorologico da Universidade de 

Coimbra {Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory of 

the University of Coimbra). [i] 
7085. Universidade ( University), [i] 

Evora. 

7087. Biblioteca Publica {Public Librdry). [iJ 

lisboa {Lisbon). 

7089. Academia Eeal des Sciencias {Royal Academy of Sci- 
ences), fiii] 
7091. Academia des Bellas Artes {Academy of Fine Arts), [i] 
7093. Associagao dos Engenheiros Civis Portuguezes {Association 

of Portuguese Civil Engineers), [i] 
7095. Biblioteca Nacional {National Library), [iii] 
7097. Colonial Department of the Navy Department. 
7099. Commissao Central Permanente de Geographia {Central 
Permanent Commission of Geography), [i] 
[Commissao Geologica de Portugal. (See Direcgao Gene- 
ral dos Trabalhos Geologicos.)] 



238 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Lisboa (Lisbon) — Contiuued. 

7101. Direc9ao General dos Trabalbos Geodesicos {Geodetic 
Office), [i] 

7103. Direcgao General dos Trabalhi)s Geologicos {Geological 
Bureau), [i] 

7105. Escola da Exercito {Military School), [i] 

7107. Escola Medico-Cirurgica {Medico- Ghirurgical School), [i] 

7109. Escola Naval {Naval School), [i] 

7111. Escola Polytechuica {Polytechnical School), [i] 

7113. Instituto Industrial de Lisboa {Industrial InsHtute). [i] 

7115. Instituto Real de Agricultura {Eoyal Institute of Agricul- 
ture), [i] 

7117. Ministro de Negocios Estrangeiros {Minister of Foreign 
Affairs), [i] 

7119. Museo de Lisboa {Lisbon Museum), [i] 

7121. Museo Nacional das Colonias {National Museum of the Colo- 
nies), [ij 

7123. Observatorio Astronomico da Tapada de Alcantara {Astro- 
nomical Observatory of Tapada of Alcantara), [i] 

7125. Observatorio Astronomico na Escola Polytechnica {Astro- 
nomical Observatory of the Polytechnical School), [i] 

7127. Observatorio de Marina {Naval Observatory), [i] 

7129. Observatorio Meteorologico do Infante Dom Luiz na Escola 
Polytechnica {Infant Bom Luiz Meteorological Observa- 
tory of the Polytechnic School), [i] 

7131. Eeal Associa§ao Central de Agricultura Portugueza {Royal 
Central Association of Portuguese Agriculture). [iJ 

7133. Eeal Conservatorio de Musica {Royal Conservatory of 
Music). 

7135. Sociedade de Geografia {Geographical Society), [i] 

7137. Sociedade dos Architectos e Arcbeologos {Society of Archi- 
tects and Archccologists). [i] 

7139. Sociedade Arclieologica de Lisboa {Archmological Society of 
Lisbon). 

7141. Sociedade Promotora da Industria Palevil {Society for the 
Promotion of Manufacturing Industry). [\\ 

7143. Sociedade Pliarmaceutica Lusitania {Lisbon Pharmaceutical 
Society), [i] 

7145. Sociedade des Sciencias Medicas de Lisboa {Lisbon Society 
of Medical Sciences), [i) 

Oporto. 

7147. Academia Polytechnica {Polytechnic Academy), [i] 

7149. " Centro Pharmaceutico Portugueze" {^^Pharmaceutical 

Centre "). [i] 
7151. Escola Medico-Cirurgica {Medico- Ghirurgical School) [i] 
7153. Instituto Industrial {Industrial Institute). [iJ 



LIST OF FOEEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 239 

Oporto — Continued. 

7155. Museo lie Historia Natural da Camara Municipal do Porto 
{Oporto Museum of Natural History), fi] 

7157. Sociedade de . Iustruc§ao do Porto (Educational Society). 
[Packages sent through Ramsay Crooks, Esq., 25 South 
William Street, New York. J [i] 

7159. Sociedade Portugueza de Geografia {Portuguese Geographi- 
cal Society). 

ROUMA?fIA. 

Bukarest. 

71G1, Soci6t6 Eoumaine d'Agriculture {Roumanian Agricultural 

Society), [i] 
7163. Soci6t6 Eoumaine de G^ographie {Roumanian Geographical 
Society). 

RUSSIA. 

Arkhangel. 

7165. Flotskala Biblioteka {Naval Library). 

Barnaul. 

7167. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria {Meteorological Observa- 
tory), [i] 

Derpt {JDorpat). 

7169. DerptskoieObshchestvoIestesto-Ispytalelei {Borpat Society 

of Naturalists), [ij 
7171. Farmatsevticheskoie Obshchestvo {Pharmaceutical Society). 

[i] 
7173. Imper. Astronomicheskaia Observatoria [Kaiserliche TJni- 

versitats-Stemwarte] {Imperial Astronomical Observa- 
tory), [i] 

7175. Imper. Universitet {Imperial University), [iii] 

7177. Kaiserliche Livlandische Oekonomische Gesellschaft {Im- 
perial Livonian Economical Society), [i] 

7179. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria {Meteorological Observa- 
tory), [i] 

7181. Statistisches Bureau der LTuiversitat {Statistical Bureau of 
the University), [i] 

7183. IJchonoie Estonskoie Obshchestvo [Gelehrte Estnische 
. Gesellschaft] {Esthonian Scitntific Society), [iii] 

j 7185. ^eterinarnyi Institut ("Petenwar?/ J«s^?/w^e). [i] 

Ekaterinburg. 
I| 7187. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria {Meteorological Observa- 

tory), [i] 
7189. Soci6t6 Ouralienne d'Amateurs des Sciences Naturelles. 
( Uralian Society of Friends of Natural Science). 



240 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Helsingfors. 

7191. Bureau Central de Statistiqiie de la Fiulande ( Central Statis- 
tical Btireau of Finland). 

7193. Finnische Akademie der Wissenschaften {Finnish Academy 
of Sciences.) 

7195. Finska Geologiska Undersokningen {Geological Survey of 
Finland), [i] 

7197. Finska Litteratur-Sallskapet {Society of Finnish Literature). 

[i] 
7199. Finskoie Uchouoie Obshchestvo [Societas Scieutiarum Feu- 

nica, Finslia Vetenskaps-Societet] {Finnish Scientific 

Society), [iii] 
7201. Kejserliga Alexauders-Universitet i Finland {Imperial 

Alexander University of Finland). [Packages sent 

through F. A. Brockhaus, Leipzig.] [i] 
7203. Magnitnaia i Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria {Magnetic 

and Meteorological Observatory), [i] 
7205. Obshchestvo Fiulandskih Vrachei [Finska Lakare Siills- 

kapet] {Society of Physicians of Finland), [i] 
7207. Siillskapet pro Fauna et Flora Fenuica {Society for the Fauna 

and Flora of Finland), [i] 

laroslavl ( Yaroslav). 

7209. Demidofskii luridicheskii Litsei ( Bemidof JuridicalLyceum). 

7211. Obshchestvo dla izsledovania laroslafskoi gubernii v iest- 
estvenno-istoricheskom otnoshenii {Society for Invest- 
igating the Natural History of the District of laroslavl). 

[ij 
Irkutsk. 

7213. Vostochno-Sibirskii Otdiel Imper. Eusskavo Geografiches- 
kavo Obshchestva {Fast- Siberian Section of the Imperial 
Russian Geographical Society), [i] 
Kazan. 

7215. Imper. Kazanskii Universitet {Imperial University of Kazan). 
[iii] 

7217. Imper. Kazanskoie Ekonomicheskoie Obshchestvo {Im- 
perial Economical Society of Kazan), [i] 

7219. Kazanskoie Obshchestvo Vrachei {Society of Physicians of 
Kazan). 

7221. Observatoria {Observatory), [i] 

7223. Obshchestvo lestestvolspytatelei pri Imper. Kazanskom 

Universitetie {Society of Naturalists at the Imperial 

University of Kazan). [iJ 

Kharkof. 

7225. Imper. Kharkofskii Universitet {Imperial University of 

Kharkof). [ij 



LIST OF FOREIGN COREESPONDENTS. 241 

Kharkof — Coutinued. 

7227. Mathematiscbe Gesellscliaft der Uiiiversitat {Mathematical 

Society of the University). 
7229. Obshchestvo Ispytatelei Prirody pri Imper. Khaikofskom 

Universitetie {Society of Naturalists at the Imperial 

Univetsity of Kharkof). [i] 
7231. Veterinarnoie Ucliilisliche ( Veterinary School), fi] 

Kief.' 

7233. Imper. Universitet Sviatovo Vladimira {Imperial St. Vla- 
dimir University), [i] 

7235. Kiefskoie Obshchestvo lestestvo-lspytatelei {Kief Society of 
Naturalists), [ij 

7237. Observatoria {Observatory), [i] 

Kronshtat {Cronstadt). 

7239. Kompasnaia Observatoria {Compass Observatory). [iJ 

7241. Kronshtatskaia Morskaia Biblioteka {Naval Library of 
Cronstadt). [i] 

7243. Morskaia Astronomiclieskai a Observatoria {Naval Astro- 
nomical Observatory), [i] 

7245. Obshchestvo Morskih Yrachei {Society of Naval Physicians). 

[i] 
lebedian {District of Tambof). 

[Lebedianskoie Obshcbestvo Selskovo Hoziaistva {Lebedian 
Society of Rural Economy). (Closed.)] 

Lugan {District of UJcaterinoslav^). 

7247. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria {Meteorological Observa- 
tory). 

Mitava {Mitau). 

7249. Kurlandskoie Obslicliestvo LiteraturyiIskus8tv((7o«rZaw<Z 
Society of Literature and Art), [iii] 
.'Moskva {3Ioscoic). 

7251. OLertkofskaia Publichnaia Biblioteka {ChertJcof Public 

Library), [i] 
7253. Etnograficheskii Muzei {Ethnographical Museum), [i] 
7255. Fiziko-Meditsinskoie Obshchestvo {Physico- Medical Society). 

[i] 

7257. Imper. Moskofskii Universitet {Imperial University of Mos- 
coic). [I] 

7259. Imper. Moskofskoie Obshchestvo lestestvo-lspytatelei {Bn- 
perial Moscoio Society of Naturalists), [iiij 

7261. Imper. Moskofskoie Obshchestvo Selskovo Hoziaistva (Jw- 
perial 2Ioscow Society of Rural Economy), [i] 

7263. Imper. Obshchestvo Istorii i Drevnostei Eossiiskih pri Mos- 
|| kofskom Universitetie {Imperial Society of Russian His- 

tory and Antiquities at the University of Moscow), (ij 

H. Mis. 15 16 



242 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Moskva (BIoscow) — Continued. 

7265. Imper. Obshcliestvo Lubitelei lestestvoznania, Antropolo- 
gii i Etnografii {Imperial Society of Friends of Natural 
Science^ Anthropology, and Ethnography), [i] 

7267. Imper. Zeniledielcheskoie Obsbchestvo v Moskvie {Imperial 
Agricultural Society of Moscow), [i] 

7269. luridicbeskoie Obsbchestvo {Juridical Society), [i] 

7271. Kommercbeskaia Akademia [Commercial Academy), -fi] 

7273. Lazarefskii lustitut Vostocbnyb 1-dzykof {Lasaref Institute 
of Oriental Languages), [i] 

7275. Meteorological Observatory of the Agricultural Academy, 

7277. Moskofskaia Synodalnaia Biblioteka {Moscotc Synodal Li- 
brary). 

7279. Moskotskii Publichnyi i Euraiantsefskii Muzei {Moscow 
Public and Rumiantsef Museums), [i] 

7281. Moskofskoie Archeologicheskoie Obsbchestvo {Moscoic 
Archaiological Society), [i] 

7283. Moskofskoie Matematicheskoie Obsbchestvo {Moscoic Mathe- 
matical Society), [i] 

7285. Muzei Kniazia Sergeia Mibailovicha Galitsyna {Prince Ser- 
gius Galitsyn^s Museum), [i] 

7287, Observatoria {Observatory), [ij 

7289. Obsbchestvo Akklimatizatsii Eastenii i Zhivotnyh {Society 
of Acclimation of Plants and Animals). [i( 

7291. Obsbchestvo Drevne-Eusskavo Iskusstva pri Moskofskom 
Publichnom i Enmiantsefskom Museiah {Society of Old 
Bussian Art at the Moscow Public and Bumiantsef Mu- 
seums). [i] 

7293. Obsbchestvo Lubitelei Hudozhestv {Society of Friends of the 
Fine Arts), [ij 

7295. Obsbchestvo Lubitelei Eossiiskoi Slovesnosti {Society of 
Friends of Bussian Literature), [ij 

7297. Petrofskaia Zemledielcheskaia i Lesnaia Akademia {Peter 
Academy of Agriculture and Forestry), [i] 
[Eumiantsefskaia Biblioteka i Muzei {Bumiantsef lADrary 
and Museum). (See Moskofskii Publiclmyi i IJumiaut- 
sefskii Musei.)] 

7299. Eusskoie Obsbchestvo Lubitelei Sadovodstva {Bussian So- 
ciety of Friends of Horticulture), [i] 
[Slavianskii Komitet {Slavic Committee). (Closed.)] 
Narva. 

7301. Narvskoie Arheologicheskoie Obsbchestvo {Archaeological 
Society of Narva), [ij 

Nerchinsk. 

7303. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria {Meteorological Observa- 
tory), [i] 



LIST *0F rOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 243 

Nezhin. 

7305. Istoriko-Filologicheskii Institut {Eistorico-Philological In- 
stitute) [formerly Litsei Grafa Bezborodko]. [ij 
Nikolaief. 

7307. Observatoria {Observatory), [i] 

Odessa. 

7309. GorodskaiaPublichnaiaBiblioteka {Public City Library), [i] 
7311. Iraper. Novo-Eossiiskii Univeisitet {Imperial New-Russian 

University). 
7313. Imper. Obshchestvo Selskova Hoziaistva luzhnoi Rossii 
{Imjyerial Society of Rural Economy of Southern Rus- 
sia), [i] 

7316. Novo-Rossiiskoie Cbshchestvo lestestvolspytatelei (Rew- 

Russian Society of Naturalists). [The library of this 
society is inseparably connected with the university.] 

7317. Odesskoie Obshchestvo Istorii i Drevnostei {Historical and 

Antiquarian Society of Odessa). [iJ 
[Publichnaia Biblioteka {Public Library). (See Gorodskaia 

Publichuaia Biblioteka.)] 
7319. Soci6t^ de Medecine d'Odessa {Medical Society of Odessa), [i] 
7321. JJchi\ishcheG\i\ho-lS^iemjh{I)eqf and l)umb Institution), [i] 

Omsk. 

7323. Obshchestvo Izsledovatelei Zapadnoi Sibiri {Society of Ex- 
plorers of Western Siberia), [i] 
Orenburg. 

7325. Orenburgskii Otdiel Imper. Eusskavo Geograficheskavo 

Obshchestva ( Orenburg Section of the Imperial Russian 

Geographical Society), [i] 
Pavlofsk. 

7327. Library of the Meteorological and Magnetic Station. 

Pulkovo {Poulliova). 

7329. IsTikolaiefskaia Glavnaia Observatoria {Nicholas Chief Ob- 
servatory), [i] 

Eevel {Reval). 

7331. Estlandskoie Literaturnoie Obshchestvo {Esthonian Liter- 
ary Society), [i] 
Hiazan. 

7333. Publichnaia Biblioteka {Public Library), [i] 

Riga. 

7335. Lettisch-Literarische Gesellschaft {Society of Lettic Litera- 

; ture). [i] 

7337. Muzei {Museum), [i] 

7339. Obshchestvo lestestvolspytatelei [Naturforscherverein] 
{Society of Naturalists), [iii] 



244 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Riga — Continued. 

7341. Obshchestvo Istorii i Drevnostei Eusskih Pribaltiiskih Pro. 
vintsii [Gesellschaft fiir Gescbichte uud Alterthums. 
kunde der Ostsee-Provinzen Eusslands] {Historical 
and Antiquarian Society of the Russian Baltic Prov- 
inces). \\] 

7343. Obshchestvo Prakticheskih Yrachei {Society of Practical 
Physicians), [i] 

7345. Techuicheskoie Obshchestvo {Technical Society), [i] 

Sankt-Peterburg {St. Petersburg). 

7347. levo Velichestvo Imperator Vserossiiskii {Ris Majesty the 
Emperor of Russia), [iii] 

7349. Arheograficheskaia Kommissia pri MinisterstVie Narod- 
navo Prosvieshchenia {Archwographical Commission of 
the Ministry of Public Education), [ij 

7351. Bibliothek der Evangelischen Gemeinden iu St. Petersburg 
{Library of the Protestant Congregations of St. Peters- 
burg). 

7353. Cabinet der Physikalischen Geographie der Kaiserbcheu 
Universitiit {Cabinet of Physical Geography of the Impe- 
rial 'University), [i] 

7355. Commission pour fixer les mesures et les poids de I'Empire 
de Eussie {Commission for establishing measures and 
weights in the Russian Empire). 

7357. Commission russe des ^changes internationaux de la 
Biblioth^que Imp<5riale Publique {Russian Commission 
of International Exchanges at the Imperial Public 
Library). [iJ 

7359. Filologicheskoie Obshchestvo pri Sankt-Peterburgskom 
Universitetie {Philological Society of the University of 
St. Petersburg), [i] 

7361. Geologicheskii Komitet {Geological Committee), [i] 

7363. Gidrograficheskii Departament Morskovo Miuisterstva 
{Hydrographical Department of the Ministry of Ma- 
rine), [iii] 

7365. Gornaia Akademia {Mining Academy), [i] 

7367. Gornyi Departament Miuisterstva Gosudarstvennyh Imush- 
chestv {Mining Department of the Ministry of State 
Domains), [i] 

7369. Gosudarstveunaia Kommissia Pogashenia Dolgof {Imperial 
Commission of Amortizement). 

7371. Imper. Akademia Nauk {Imperial Academy of Sciences), [iii] 

7373. Imper. Aleksaudrofskii Litsei {Imperial Alexafider Ly- 
ceum). [iJ 

7375. Imper. Arheologicheskaia Kommissia {Imperial Archceo- 
logical Commission), [iii] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPOlvrDENTS. 245 

Sankt-Peterburg {St. Petersburg) — Continued. 

7377. Imper. Farmatsefticbeskoie Obslichestvo {Imperial Phar 
maceuiical Society), [i] 

7379. Imper. Istoriko Filologicbeskii Institut {Imperial Historico 
Philological Institute), fi] 

7381. Imi>er. Mediko-Hirurgicbeskaia Akademia {Imperial Med 
ico-Surgical Academy). \i] 

7383. Imper. Mibailofskaia Artilleriiskaia Akademia {Imperia 
Michael Artillery Academy), [i] 

7385. Imper. Nikolaiefskaia Inzbeuernaia Akademia {Imperia 
Nicholas Engineering Academy), [i] 

7387. Imper. Mkolaiefskaia Voiennaia Akademia {Imperial Nich 
olas Military Academy). 

7389 Imper. Publicbnaia Biblioteka {Imperial Public Library) 
[iii] 

7391. Imper. Eossiiskoie Obsbcbestvo Sadovodstva v Sankt-Pe- 
terburgie {Imperial Russian Horticultural Society of St. 
Petersburg), [ij 

7393. Imper. Eusskoie Arbeologicheskoie Obsbcbestvo (Imperial 
Russian Archaeological Society), [i] 

7395. Imper. Eusskoie Geograflcbeskoie Obsbcbestvo {Imperial 
Russian Geographical Society), [iii] 

7397. Imper. Eusskoie Istoricbeskoie Obsbcbestvo {Imperial Rus- 
sian Historical Society), fij 

7399. Imper. Eusskoie Tebnicbeskoie Obsbcbestvo {Imperial Rus- 
sian Technical Society), [ij 

7401. Imj)er. Sankt-Peterburgskaia Akademia Hudozbestv {Im- 
perial St. Petersburg Academy of Fine Arts). 

7403. Imper. Sankt-Peterburgskii Botanicbeskii Sad {Imperial 
Botanical Garden of St. Petersburg). [Packages sent 
tbrougb Wm. Mintor, Wandrabm Briicke 6, Ham- 
burg, Germany.] [i] 

7405. Imi^er. Sankt-Peterburgskii Universitet {Imperial Univer- 
sity of St. Petersburg), [i] 

7407. Imper. Saukt-Peterburgskoie Mineralogicbeskoie Obsb- 
cbestvo {Imperial Mineralogical Society of St. Peters- 
burg), [iii] 

7409. Imper. Tebnologicbeskii Institut {Imperial Technological 
Institute), [i] 

7411. Imper. Uchilisbcbe Glubo-lS^iemyb {Imperial Deaf and Dumb 
Institute), [i] 

7413. Imper. Ucbilisbcbe Pravoviedenia {Imperial Law School). 

7415. Imper. Volnoie Ekouomicbeskoie Obsbcbestvo {Imperial 
Free Economical Society), [iii] 

7417. Institut Korpusa Putei Soobsbcbenia {Institution of the 
Corps of Engineers), [i] 



246 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Sankt-Peterburg {St. Petersburg) — Continued. 

7419. Institut Slepyh {Institution for tlie Blind), [i] 

[Lesnaia Akademia. (See Sankt-Peterburgskii Lesnoi In- 
stitut.)] 

7421. Medicinische Wochenschrift {Medical WeeUy). [Dr. E. 
Moritz.] fi] 

7423. Meditsinskii Departament Morskovo Ministerstvo {Medical 
Department of the Ministry of Marine), [i] 

7425. Mmisterstvo Fiuansot {Ministry of Finance), [i] 

7427. Ministerstvo Gosudarstvennyh Imuslichestv {Ministry of 
State Domains). 

7429. Ministerstvo Narodnavo Prosvieshchenia {Ministry of Pub- 
lic Education), [i] 

7431. Ministerstvo Putei Soobshchenia {Ministry of Ways of 
Communication), [i] 

7433. Ministerstvo Vnutrennih Diel {Ministry of the Interior). 

7435. Morskaia Akademia {Naval Academy), [i] 

7437. Morskoie Ministerstvo {Ministry of Marine), [i] 

7439. Morskoi Muzei {Naval Museum), [i] 

7441. Morskoi TJcLonyi Komitet {Scientific Committee of the 
Navy), [i] 

7443. Muzei Greclieskih i Eimskih Drevnostei {Museum of Greek 
and Roman Antiquities), [i] 
[Mus6e Imperial Agronomique. (See Zeraledielcbeskii 
Institut.] 

7445. Muzei Imper. Akademii Nauk {Museum of the Imperial 
Academy of Sciences), [i] 

7447. Muzei Imper. Ermitazba {Museum of the Imperial Hermit- 
age), [i] 

7449. Muzei Instituta Korpusa Gornyb Inzbenerof (Museum of 
the Corps of Mining Engineers), [i] 

7451. Mkolaiefskaia Akademia Generalnavo Sbtaba {Nicholas 
Academy of the General Staff), [i] 

7453. Observatoire de l'Universit6 Imp6riale {Observatory of the 
Imperial University), [i] 

7455. Observatoria Astronomicbeskaia pri Imper. Akademii 
Nauk {Astronomical Observatory of the Imperial Acad- 
emy of Sciences), [i] 
[Obsbebestvo Estestvo Ispytateley pro Sankt-Peterburg- 
skom Vniversitete. (See Sankt-Peterburgskoie Ob- 
sbebestvo lestestvo-Ispytatelei.)] 

7457. Obsbebestvo Morskib Vracbei {Society of Naval Physi- 
cians), [i] 
[Pedagogicbeskoie Obsbebestvo {Pedagogical Society). 
(Closed.)] 

7459. Eussicbe Eevue {Russian Review). x 



LIST OF FOREIGN COREESPONDENTS. 247 

Sankt-Peterburg {St-. Petersburg) — Continued. 

7461. Etisskoie Entomologicbeskoie Obshchestvo {Russian Ento- 
mological Society), [i] 

7463. Eusskoie Himicheskoie Ol)shchestvo pri Sankt Peterburgs- 
kom Universitetie {Russian Chemical Society of the St. 
Petersburg University), [i] 

7465. Sankt-Peterburgskaia Gorodskaia Duma {City Council of 
St Petersburg). 

7467. Sankt-Peterburgskii Lesnoi Institut {St. Petersburg Insti- 
tute of Forestry). 
[Sankt-Peterburgskii Otdiel Slavianskavo Komiteta {St. 
Petersburg Section of the Slavic Committee). (Closed.)] 

7469. Sankt-Peterburgskoie Obshchestvo lestestvo-Ispytatelei 
{St. Petersburg Society of Naturalists), [i] 

7471. Sankt-Peterburgskoie Slaviauskoie Blagotvoritelnoie Ob- 
shchestvo {Slavic Benevolent Society of St. Peters- 
burg), [i] 

7473. Selsko - hoziaistvennyi Muzei {Museum of Rural Econ- 
omy), [i] 

7475. Shtab Korpusa Gornyh Inzhenerof {Staff of the Corps of 
Mining Engineers), [iii] 

7477. Topograficheskoie Buro Voiennavo Ministerstva {Topo- 
graphical Bureau of the Ministry of War), [i] 

7479. Tsentralnaia Fizicheskaia Observatoria {Central Physical 
Observatory), [iii] 

7481. Tsentralnyi Statisticheskii Komitet Ministerstva Vnutren- 
nih Diel {Central 'Statistical Committee of the Ministry 
of the Interior), [i] 

7483. Uchebnoie Otdielenie Yostochnyh lasykof Aziatskavo De- 
partamenta Ministerstva Inostrannyh Diel {Institute 
of Oriental Languages in the Asiatic Department of the 
Foreign Office), [i] 

7485. Uchonyi Komitet Ministerstva Gosudarstvennyh Imu- 
shchestv {Scientific Committee of the Ministry of State 
Domains), [i] 

7487. Voienno - meditsinskii Zhurnal {Military Medical Jour- 
nal), [i] 

7489. Yoiennoie Ministerstvo {Ministry of War). 

7491. Zemledielcheskii Institut {Agronomical Institute), [i] 

7493. Zemledielcheskii Musei Ministerstva Gosudarstvennyh 
Imushchestv {Agricultural Museum of the Ministry of 
State Domains), [i] 

Tashkent {in Turkestan). 

7495. Magnitnaia i Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria {Magnetic- 
and Meteorological Observatory), [i] 



248 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Tiflis. 

7497. Iinper. Kavkazskoie IMeditsinskoie Obslichestvo {Imperial 

Cavcasian Medical /Society), [ij 
7409. Kavkazskii Muzei [Caucasian 2[useum). [i] 
7501. Kavkazskii Otdiel Iiuper. Kusskavo Geograficbeskavo Ob- 

shchestva [Caucasian /Section of the Imperial Russian 

Geographical Society), [i] 
7503. Kavkazskoie Obslichestvo Selskovo Iloziaistva [Caucasian 

Society of Rural Economy), [i] 
7505. Maguituaia i Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria [Magnetic 

and Meteorological Observatory) [Pliysikalisches Ob- 

servatoriuni]. [i] 
7507. PublicJmaia Biblioteka [Public Library), [i] 

[Tifliser Pliysikalisches Observatorium [Physical Observa- 
tory of Tiflis). (See Magnitnaia i Meteorologicheskaia 

Observatoria.)] 
7509. Upravleuie Gornoiu Cbastiu na Kavkazie i za Kavkazom 

[Administration of Caucasian and Trans Caucasian 

Mines). 



Tula. 



7511. Publichnaia Biblioteka [Public Library), [i] 
7513. Statisticheskii Komitet [Statistical Committee), [i] 



Uman [District of Kief). 

7515. Umanskoie TJcbilishclie Zemledielia i Sadovodstva {Agri- 
cultural and Horticultural School of Uman). [i] 

Varshava ( Warsaw). 

7517. AstronomicheskSia Observatoria {Astronomical Observa- 
tory), [i] 

7519. Gazeta L<Skarska [Medical Journal), [i] 

7521. Iinper. Varsliafskii Universitet [Imperial University of 
Warsaw), [i] 

7523. Mediko-Hirurgicbeskaia Akademia [Medico- Surgical Acad- 
emy), [i] 

7525. Obslichestvo Pooshchrenia Hudozhestv v Tsarstvie Pol- 
skom [Society for the Encouragement of Fine Arts in 
the Kingdom of Poland), [i] 

7527. Towarzystwo Eoliiicze BLiolestwa Polskiego {Agricultural 
Society of the Kingdom of Poland). 
Vilna. 

7529. Imper. Vilenskoie Meditsinskoie Obshcliestvo [Imperial 
Medical Society of Vilna). [i] 
[Musei Drevuostei [Museum of Antiquities). (See Vilen- 
skaia Publichuaia Biblioteka, &c.)] 

7531. Sieverozapadiiyi Otdiel Imper. Eusskavo Geograficbeskavo 
Obsbchestva [Northicestern Section of the Imperial 
Russian Geographical Society), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 249 

Vilna — Continued. 

7533. Vilenskaia ArkeogTafitjheskaia Kommissia (Arcliccograph- 

ical Commission of Vilna). [ij 
7535. Vilenskaia Astrononiiclieskaia Observatoria {Astrono7nical 

Observatory of Vilna). [i] 
7537. Vilenskaia Publielinaia Biblioteka i Musei Drevnostei 
{Vilna Public Library and Museum of Antiquities), [i] 
Vladimir. 

7539. Imperial School of Marine Jurisprudence, [i] 

SEBVIA. 

Belgrade. 

7541. Drushtvo srbske Slovessnosti {Society of Servian Litera- 
ture), [i] 

7543. Praviteljstvena Biblioteka {State Library), [i] 

SPATN. 

Barcelona. 

7544. Academia de Ciencias, Artes, y Oficios para la Mujer {Acad- 

emy of Sciences, Arts, and Female Industries). 

7545. "Cronica Cientifica" {^'^ Scientific Chronicle^^). [i] 

7547. Instituto Agricola Catalan de San Isidro ( Catalanian Agri- 
cultural Institute of San Isidro). fi] 
7549. Observatorio Meteorologico {Meteorological Observatory). 
7551. Eeal Academia de Buenas Letras de Barcelona {Royal 

Academy of Belles-Lettres, of Barcelona), [i] 
Bilbao. 

7553. Board of Charity — Library of Charitable Instruction. 

7555. Observatorio Meteorol6gico {Meteorological Observatory). 

Bnxgos. 

7557. Observatorio Meteorol6gico {Meteorological Observatory). 

Cadiz. 

7559. Sociedad Economica Gaditana de Amigos del Pais {Gadi- 

tana Economical Society), [i] 
7561. Sociedad Protectora de los Animales y las Plantas {Society 
for the Protection of Animals and Plants), [i] 
Cordova. 

7563. Academia Nacional de Ciencias Exactas {National Academy 
of Exact Sciences), [i] 

Granada. 

7565. Universidad de Granada ( University of Granada), [i] 

Madrid. 

7567. Academia de las tres Nobles Artes de San Fernando {San 
Fernando Academy of the Three Noble Arts). [1] 



250 LIST OF FOREIGN COEEESPONDENTS. 

Madrid — Continued. 

7oG9. Academia Especial delngenieros {Special Academy for En- 
gineers), [i] 

7571. Ateneo Cientifico, Literario y Artistico {Scientific Literary 
and Artistic Atheneum). 

7573. Biblioteca Nacional {National Library), [iii] 

[Colonial Department. (See Ministerio de las Colonias).] 

7575. Comision del Mapa Geologic© de Espana {Commission for 
the Geological Map of Spain). 

7577. " Correspondencia de Espaiia" {Spanish Correspondence). 

7579. Direcciou del '' Memorial de Artilleria" {Artillery Notes). 

7581. Escuela de Ingenieros de Caminos, Canales, y Puertos 
{School of Civil Engineering). 

7583. Instituto Geografico y Estadistico {Geographical and Sta- 
tistical Institute), fij 

7585. Junta Estadistica {Statistical Society), [i] 

7587. "La EspaiiaAgricola": Asociacion General de Labradores 
{The Spanish Farmer^ General Association of Workmen). 

[iJ 
7589. Ministerio de Fomento — Direccion General de Instruccion 

Publica {Department of the Interior — General Office of 

Public Instruction). 

7691. Ministerio de las Colonias {Colonial Department), [i] 

7593. Museo Arqueologieo Xacional {National Archaeological Mu- 
seum), [i] 

7595. Observatorio de Madrid {Madrid Observatory), [i] 

7597. Eeal Academia de Ciencias de Madrid {Royal Academy of 
Sciences, of Madrid), [iii] 

7599. Eeal Academia de Ciencias Morales y Politicas {Royal 
Academy of Moral and Political Sciences), [iii] 

7601. Real Academia Espaiiola Arqueologica y Geogrdfica {Royal 
Spanish Academy of Archaeology and Geography), [i] 

7603. Eeal Academia de la Historia {Royal Academy of History). 
[iii] 

7605. 'Re\istn de Isb Arqmtectnr a, {Review of Architecture), [i] 

7607. Eevista Miuera y M&tallurgica {Mineral and Metallurgical 
Review). 

7609. Sociedad de Antropologia de Madrid {Anthropological So- 
ciety), [i] 

7611. Sociedad Central de Arquitectos {Central Society of Archi- 
tects). [iJ 

7613. Sociedad Espaiiola de Historia Js'atural {Spanish Society of 
Natural History), [i] 

7615. 8ocieda,d Geogra&ca. de Madiid {Geographical Society) . [i] 
I Sociedad de Professores de Ciencias {Association of Pro- 
fessors of Scieiice).] 

7617. Universidad de Madrid ( University of Madrid). [1] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 251 

Mnrcia. 

7619. Obeervatorio Meteorol6gico {Meteorological Observatory). 

Oviedo. 

7621. Institute Provincial de Oviedo {Provincial Institute). 

San Fernando. 

7623. Institute y Observatorio de Marina {Xaval Institute and 

Observatory), [i] 
7625. Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando {Royal 
Academy of Fine Arts), [ij 

Santiago. 

7627. Observatorio Meteorologico {Meteorological Observatory). 

Valencia. 

7629. Eeal Sociedad Econdmica {Royal Economic Society), [i] 

Viscaya {Biscay). 

7631. Institute Provincial de Viscaya {Provincial Institute of 
Biscay). 

SWEDEX. 

Fahlen. 

[Bergschule. (Dissolved. Kow Mining School, Stock- 
holm.)] 
Gdtheborg. 

7633. Kongliga Yetenskaps och Yitterhets Samhallet {Royal So- 
ciety of Sciences and Belles-Lettres). [iii] 
f SaUeskapet SraMoglarnas Yanner {Society for the Protec- 
tion of Small Birds). (Discontinued.)] 
Linkoping. 

7635. Ostgota Fornminnes Foreuing {Uast Gothland Antiquarian 

Society). 
Lund. 

7637. Ethnologiska Museum {Ethnological Museum). 
7639. Kongliga Fysiografiska Sallskapet {Royal Physiographic So- 
ciety), [i] 
7641. Kongliga Universitetet {Royal University), [iii] 

[ISIordisk Tidsskrift for tolitik Ekonomie, och Litterature 
(Discontinued.)] 

7643. Universitets Observatoriet ( University Observatory), [i] 

Stockholm. 

7644. Departementet for Fiskeri. [Is a department of the Kon- 

gliga Landtbrucks Akademien. (Packages addressed 
to care of Fischerei-intendant, Dr. E. Lundberg.)] [i] 

7645. Entomologiske Forening {Entomological Society), [i] 
7647. Entomologiske Tidsskrift {Entomological Journal). 



252 LIST OF FOEEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Stockholm — Continued. 

7C49. "Eira," [MedicalJournal). 

[Geographical Society. (See Svenska Siillskapet for An- 
tropologie och Geografie.)] 

7651. Geologiska Byrdn ((?eo/o</ica/ -Bttreaw). [1] 

70*53. Geologiska Foreningen {Geological Society). 

[Geological Survey. (See Geologiska ByrS,!!.)] 

7G55. Jernkoutoret (O^ces o/^or</es). [i] 

7057. Kongliga Bibliotheket (Eoyaf jCiirar?/). [iii] 

7G59. Kougliga Landtbrucks Akademien {Royal Academy of Ag- 
riculture), [ij 

7661. Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien {Royal Swedish 
Academy of Sciences), [iii] 

7663. Kongliga Vittorhets Historic och Antiquitets Akademien 
{Royal Academy of Belles-Lettres, History, and Antiqui- 
ties), [iii] 
[" Land och Folk." (Discontinued.)] 

7665. Meteorologiska Central Anstalten {Central Meteorological 
Institute). [iJ 

7667. Mining School [address at Technic High School], [i] 

7669. Minister of Foreign Affairs. 

7671. Nordisk Mediciniske Arkiv {Northern Medical Archives^. 

7673. Observatoriet {Observatory), [i] 

7675. Statistiska Central ByrS.n {Bureau of Statistics), [i] 

7677. Svenska Akademien {Swedish Academy), [i] 

7679. Svenska Liikare SiillskaiDet {Swedish Society of Physicians). 

[i] 
7681. Svenska BokforlaggareForening(^oci6;f?/o/^(?*<ors). [Care 

of Samson & Wallin, Stockholm.] 
7683. Svenska SalTskapet for Antropologi och Geografie {Society 
of Anthropology and Geography). 
TTpsala. 

7685. Kongliga Universitetet {Royal University), [i] 

7687. Kongliga Vetenskaps Societaten {Royal Society of Sciences). 

[iii] 
7689. Prof. P. J. Lindell {Rpyal University), [i] 
7691. Svenska Fornminnes Forening {Swedish Antiquarian So- 
ciety), [i] 

7693. Universitets Astronomiska Ohseryatonet {University Astro- 

nomical Observatory). 

7694. Universitets Meteorologiska Observatoriet ( University Me- 

teorological Observatory), [i] 
Vesteris. 

[Elementar Laroverkets Biblioteket {Library of the Normal 
School). [Dissolved.)] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 253 

Vesteras — Continued. 

7695. Liikare Sjillskapet {Physicians^ Society). 
7697. Eiksbibliotheket (State Library). 

STVITZERL. AXD . 

7699. Schweizerischer Forst-Verein {Swiss Foresters^ Umon). [i] 
7701. Schweizerische Paliiontologiscbe Gesellschaft {Swiss Palce- 

ontological Society), [i] 
7703. Schweizerischer Verein fiir Straf- und Gefangnisswesen 
{Swiss Association for the Management of Prisons), [i] 
Aaran. 

7705. Aargauische Naturforschende Gesellchaffc {Society of Natu- 
ralists), [i] 
[Blinden und Taubstummen Instltut. (See Laudenhof.)] 



Basel 



Bern. 



7707. Gesellschaft zur Beforderung desGuten und Gemeinniitzi- 

gen {Society for the Promotion of Morality and Public 

Welfare), [i] 
7709. Gewerbe-Schule {Polytechnical School), [i] 
7711. Historische und Antiquarische Gesellschaft {Historical and 

Antiquarian Society), [iii] 
7713. Kjnder-Spital {Hospital for Children). 
7715. Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Naturalists' Society), [iii] 
7717. TJniversitats-Bibliothek ( University Library), [i] 
7719. Verein Schweizerischer Gymnasiallehrer {Society of Swiss 

Teachers). 

7721. AUgemeine Schweizerische Gesellschaft fiir die Gesammten 
Naturwissenschaften {Swiss Society of Natural Sciences 
in General), [i] 

7723. Biblioth^que F^ddrale {Federal Library), [i] 

7725. Bureau Topographique F6d6ral [Stat Major] {Tojjographi- 
col Bureau). 

1121. Commission de la Carte G^ologique de la Suisse {Commis- 
sion for the Geological Chart of Sicitzerland). [Care of 
Biblioth^que du Polytechnique ^ Zurich.] 

7729. Eidgenossensche Bundes-Kanzlei {Helvetic Federal Chan- 
celry). [i] 

7731. EidgenossenschesDepartement deslnnern {Helvetic Lnterior 
Department), [i] 
[Eidgenossenscher Inspector der Gotthard Eisenbahn {In- 
spector of the Gotthard Bailroad). (See No. 7737.)] 

7733. Eidgenossensches Statistisches Bureau {Statistical Bureau). 

[i] 
7735. Geographiscbe Gesellschaft {Geographical Society), [i] 

7737. Inspectorat technique des Chemins de Fer Suisses {Office 

of Inspector of the Swiss Railroads), [i] 



254 LIST OF FOKEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Bern — Continued. 

7739. Institut G^ographique International (International Geo- 
graphical Institute), [i] 

7741. Illustrirte Vierteljahrschrift fiir jirztliche Polytechnik {II- 
lustrnted Quarterly Journal of Medical Polytechnic). |i] 

7743. Kantons Schule {Cantonal School), [i] 

7745. Naturforscbende Gesellschaft {Naturalists^ Society), [iii] 

7747. Oekonomisclie Gesellschaft des Kanton Bern {Economical 
Society of the Canton of Bern), [i] 

7749. Schweizerischer Alpen Club {Swiss Alpine Cluh). [i] 

7751. Schweizerische Entomologische Gesellschaft {Swiss Ento- 
mological Society), [i] 

7753. Schweizerische Gemeinniitzige Gesellschaft {Swiss Society 
for Public Welfare), [ij 

7755. Schweizerische Historische Gesellschaft {Swiss Historical 
Society), [i] 

7757. Schweizerischer Lehrer-Yerein {Swiss Pedagogic Society). 

[i] 
7759. Soci6te des Sciences {Society of Sciences), [i] 

77C1. Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturellcs {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [iii] 
7763. Stern warte {Observatory), [i] 
7765. Tellurisches Observatorium {Tellurian Observatory). 
7767. Universitats-Bibliotliek ( University Library), [iii] 

Chur. 

7769. Xaturforschende Gesellschaft Graubiindens {Society of 
Natural Sciences of Oraubilnden). [i] 
Frauenfeld. 

7771. Thurgauische Naturforschende Gesellschaft {Thurgau Nat- 
uralists' Society), [i] 

Fribourg. 

7773. Soci6t6 Fribourgeoise des Naturalistes {Fribourg Society of 
Naturalists), [i] 

7775. Societe d'Histoire du Canton de Fribourg {Historical Soci- 
ety of the Canton of Fribourg). [iJ 

Geneve. 

7777. Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles {Archives 
of Physical and Natural Sciences), [i] 

7779. Association Zoologique du Ldman {Zoological Society of 
Lal:e Leman). [i] 

7781. Bibliotheque de la Ville {City Library), [iii] 

7783. " Bibliotheque Universelle." [i] 

7785. Institut National G6nevois {National Institute of Gene- 
va), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 255 

Geneve — Continued. 

7787. "Le Globe" [Organe de la Soci6t6 de G^ographie de Ge- 
neve] {The World). 

7789. Miis6e de la ville de Geneve {City Museum), [i] 

7791. Mus6e Zoologique {Zoological Museum), [i] 

7793. Observatoire {Observatory), [i] 

7795. Soci6t6 des Arts de Geneve {Geneva Society of Arts), [i] 

7797. Soci6t6 G^nevoise d'Utilit^ Publique {Geneva Soc^ty for 
the Piiblic Welfare), [i] 

7799. Soci6td d'Histoire et d'Archeologie de Geneve {Geneva So- 
ciety of History and Archwology). [i] 

7801. Soci6t6 de Geograpliie {Geographical Society), [i] 

7803. Society de Lecture {Lecture Society), [i] 

7805 Soci^te de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle {Society of 
Physics and Natural History), [iii] 

7807. Soci6t6 M^dicale {Medical Society), [i] 

7809. Soci6t6 Ornithologique Suisse {Swiss Ornithological Soci- 
ety), [i] 

7811. Soci6t6 Suisse de Topograpliie {Swiss Topographical Soci- 
ety), [i] 

Laudenhof (bei Aarau). 

7813. Taubstummen - Anstalt {Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb), [i] 
Lausanne. 

7815. Asile des Aveugles de Lausanne {Asylum for the Blind), [i] 

7817. Bibliotb^que Cantonale Vaudoise {Library of the Canton of 
Vaud). [i] 

7819. Soci^t^ d' Agriculture de la Suisse Komande {Agricultural 
Society), [i] 

7821. Soci6t6 d'Histoire de la Suisse Eomande {Historical Soci- 
ety), [i] ■ 
[Soci^t^ Industrielle d'Horlogerie. (Dissolved.)] 

7823. Soci6t6 Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles {Society of Nat- 

ural Sciences), [i] 
Luzern. 

7824. Direction der Got.bard Eisenbahn {Office of the Directors of 
the Gothard Railroad). 

7825. Historischer Yerein der Fttnf-Oerter {Historical Soci- 
ety), [i] 

7827. Kantons-Scbule {Cantonal School), [i] 

Neufchatel. 

7829. Le Conseil Municipal {City Council). 
7831. Observatoire Cantonal {Cantonal Observatory), [i] 
7833. Societ6 des Sciences Naturelles {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [iii J 



256 LIST OF FOREIGN COREESPONDENTS. 

Olten. 

7835. iSTaturforscliende Gesellschaft Graubiindens {Naturalists^ 
Society). 
Porentmy. 

7837. Soci^td Jurassienne d'^fimulation {Jurassian Society of 
Emulation) . [i] 

Rapperschwyl. 

7^39. M\\&€q ^2ki\ondA.Vo\on?i\^ {Historical Mtiseum of Poland), [i] 

Rheinfelden. 

7841, l!^ aturhistorische Gesellschaft {Natural History Society), [i] 

Saint Gall. 

[Concordia Institut International et lilcole Sap6rieure de 
Commerce {Concordia International Institute and Com- 
mercial College). (See Zurich.)] 
7843. ISTaturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft {Society of Natural 
Sciences), [i] 

Schaffhansen. 

7845. Mittheilungen der Schweizer Entomologischen Gesell- 
schaft {Journal of the Siciss Entomological Society). 
7847. Soci6td des Sciences ]S"aturelles {Society of Natural Sci- 
ences), [i] 
Sion. 

7849. Soci6t6 Miirithienne du Yalais {Muritliian Society of the Va- 

lais). [ij 
7851. Soci6t6 Valaisjinne des Sciences Naturelles {Society of 

Natural Sciences of the Yalais). [iJ 
Solothnrn. 

7853. Katurforschende QQ8€\l^c\i!A,f.t {Society of Naturalists), [i] 

Yverdon. 

7855. Institut des Sourds-Muets ^ Yverdon {Institute for the 
Deaf and Dumb), [i] 
Zurich. 

7857. Autiquarische Gesellschaft {Antiquarian Society), [iii] 
7859. Concordia Institute [formerly in Saint Gall], [i] 
7861. Count Ladislas Plater (Villa Broelberg). . [i] 
7863. Eidgenossensche Polytechnische Schule {Federal Polytech- 
nic School), [iii] 
7865. Karten-Verein {Chart Association), [i] 
7867. Naturforschende Gesellschaft {Society of Naturalists), [iii] 
7869. Schweizerischer Apotheker-Verein {Swiss Apothecaries' So- 
ciety), [i] 
7871. Schweizeriscbe Meteorologische Central-Anstalt {Swiss 

Central Meteorological Bureau), [i] 
7873. Soci6t6 de M6decine {Medical Society), [i] 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS 257 

Zurich — Coutinued. 

7875. Soci6t6 des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles {Society of 
Physical and Natural Sciences), [i] 

7877. Stern warte {Obserratory). [Transfer books to the P'ederal 
Polytechuical School.] 

7879. Universitiits- und Kautons-Bibliothek ( University and Can- 
tonal Library), [iiij 

7881. Verein fiir Landwirthschaft und Gartenbau {Agricultural 
and Horticultural Society), fi] 

7883. Vierteljahrsschrift fiir Wissenschaftliclie Philosophic 
{Quarterly Journal of Scientific Philosophy). 

7885. Zoologisches Museum {Zoological Museum), [ij 

STRIA. 

Beirut 

7887. Syrian Protestant College. 
7889. Lee Observatorj' . 

TITRKEY. 

Constantinople. 

7891. His Imperial Majesty the Sultan, [iii] 

7893. Administration Sanitaire de 1' Empire Ottoman (Board of 
Health), [i] 
[American Missionary Society. (See No. 7911.)] 
[American College. (See Robert College.)] 

7897. Anjuman i Danish {Society for the Advancement of Turkish 
Literature), [i] 

7899. Bureau de Statistique {Statistical Bureau), [i] 

7901. Gazette Medicale de I'Orient {Medical Gazette of the Ori- 
ent), [i] 

7903. Hellenic Literary Syllogog (Library), [i] 

7905. Hellenic Philological Society of Constantinople, [i] 

7907. Lnperial Meteorological Observatory, [i] 

7909. Jemiyet Ilamiyet Osmoniyet {Ottoman Scientific Sod- 
ety). [i] 

7911. Library of 4h(! American Missionary Society, [i] 

7913. Eobert College, [iii] 

7915. Soci6t6 Imperiale de M6decine {Imperial Society of Medi- 
cine), [i] 

7917. Soci6t6 Orien^ale de Constantinople {Oriental Society of 
Constantinople), [i] 

7919. Soci^tc de Pharnlacie de Constantinople {Pharmaceutical 
Society of Constantinople), [i] 

Sophia {Bulgaria). 

7921. National Library, [i] 
H. Mis. 15 17 



258 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

7923. Association Internationale da Congo [Berlin, 1884] {In- 
ternational Congo Conference). 

7925. Congress International des Am^ricanistes [Tours, France, 
1883] {Inter7iational Congress of Americanists). 

7927. Congres International des Botauistes, d'Horticulteurs, de 
Negociaults et des Fabricants de Produits du Regue 
V6getale [Leiden, 1879] {International Congress of 
Botanists, Horticnlturists, Dealers and Manufacturers 
of Vegetable Products). 

7929. Congres International des Sciences G^ographiques {Inter- 
national Congress of Geograiihical Sciences). 

7931. Congres International des Sciences G6ologiques [Berlin, 
1884^'85, London, 1888] {International Congress of Geo- 
logical Sciences). 

7933. Congres International de la Propri6t6 Artistique [Paris, 
1878] {International Artistic Congress). 

7935. Cougreso Interuacional de Americanistas [Madrid, 1881] 
{International Congress of Americanists). 

7937. International Agricultural and Forestry Congress. 

79'39. International Benevolent Congress. 

7941. International Botanical and Horticultural Congress. 

7943. International Committee of Weights and Measures. 

7945. International Congress of Commercial Geography. 

7947. International Congress of Orientalists. 

7949. International Congress of Prehistoric Anthropology and 
Archaeology. 

7951. International Geodesic Association. 

7953. International Meteorological Committee [London], 

7955. International Meteorological Congress. 

7957. International Meter Commission. 

7959. International Polar Conference. 

7961. International Pomological Congress. 

7963. International Sanitary Conference. 

7965. International Silk-Culturists' Congress. 

7967. International Statistical Congress. 

7969. International Telegraphic Convention. 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES 
TO WHICH SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS ARE 
SENT. (1885). 



(The figure [1] indicates Smithsonian Reports; fii] indicates Reports and Miseellaneous OollecHont ; 
[in] indicates Reports, Miscellaneous Collections, and Smithsonian Oontributions to KnowUdge!] 



DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS. 

The distribution of the publications of the Institution requires care 
and judicious selection, the object being to make known to the world 
the truths which may result from the expenditure of the Smithson fund. 
For this purpose the " contributions" are so distributed as to be acces- 
sible to the greatest number of readers; that is, to large central 
libraries. 

They are presented on the express condition that they shall be care- 
fully preserved, shall be accessible at all times to students and others 
who may desire to consult them, and be returned to the Institution in 
case the establishments to which they are presented at any time cease 
to exist. 

The following are the rules for the distribution of the Smithsonian 
publications. To enable in'stitutions as well as individuals, not coming 
within their provisions, to procure copies of such as may be desired, they 
are sold at a price which is intended merely to cover the actual cost of 
their publication. 

Full sets can no longer be furnished, as some of the volumes are out 
of print. 

RULES FOR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITH- 
SONIAN INSTITUTION. 

To Libraries. 

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are furnished : 

1. To learned societies of the first class, which present complete series 
of their publications to the Institution. 

2. To colleges of the first class, which furnish catalogues of their 
libraries and of their students, and all publications relative to their 
organization and history. 

3. To public libraries containing 26,000 volumes. 

259 



200 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

4. To smaller public libraries, of permanent character, properly recom.- 
mended, where a large district would be otherwise unsupplied. 

5. Institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular 
branches of knowledge may receive such Smithsonian publications as 
relate to their respective objects. 

FORM OF APPLICATION FOE PUBLICATIONS. 

To the Smithsonian Institution^ Washington, D. C. : 

Date, , 188-. 

Application is made for the library of , for the publications of 

the Smithsonian Institution. All volumes received shall be duly ac- 
knowledged, be carefully preserved, be accessible to any person who 
may wish to consult them, and be returned to the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion in case the establishment at any time ceases to exist. And in case 
of any transfer of these volumes, or any change of address by the 
library, the Institution is to be duly notified thereof. 

1. Kame of establishment, . 

2. Location : Town, . 

State, . 

3. When established, . 

4. Nature of library, . 



5. Value of buildings and property, 

6. Permanent fund, . 

7. Annual income, . 

8. Number of volumes in library, — 



9. Number of persons having use of books, 

10. Names of officers: President, . * 

Secretary, . 

Librarian, . 

Eespectfully, 



I recommend the above application. 

, Member of Congress, 

District; State. 



N. B. A neglect to return receipts for publications sent by the Insti- 
tution, or to reply to inquiries made by it, will forfeit aU claims for 
continuance on the list of distribution. 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 2(11 

ALABAMA. 

Auburn. 

Agricultural aud Mechanical College, fii] 
Greensborough. 

Southern University, [iii] 
Huntsville. 

State Normal School (Colored), [i] 
James. 

High School, [i] 
Marion. 

Howard College, [iiij 

Lincoln Normal University, fi] 
Mobile. 

Library Association, [i] 
Montgomery. 

Statt Board of Health, [i] 
Spring Hill. 

Spring Hill College, fiij 
Talladega. 

Alabama Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, [i] 
Tuscaloosa. 

Alabama Insane Hospital, [i] 

Geological Survey of Alabama, [i] 

University of Alabama, [iii] 
Tuskegee. 

Alabama Conference Female College, [ij 

Alabama High School, fi] 

Normal School, [i] 

ARKANSAS. 

Boonsborough. 

Cane Hill College, [ij 
Fayetteville. 

Arkansas Industrial University, [ii] 
Little Rock. 

Arkansas School for the Blind, [i] 

Arkansas State Library, [iii] 

Little Rock Public Library (formerly Mercantile Library), [i] 

Little Eock University, [i] 

CALIFORNIA. 

Alameda. 

Alameda Free Library, [i] 
Berkeley. 

Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, [i] 

University of California, [iii] 
Carpenteria. 

Carpenteria Science Club, [i] 



262 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

College City. 

Pierce Christian College, [i] 
Marysville. 

Marysville City Library, [ill] 
Middletown. 

Indnstrial Training School, [i] 

Mills Seminary, Mills College, [i] 
Monterey. 

Monterey Library Association, [iii] 
Oakland. 

Ebell Society Library, [i] 

Free Public Library, [i] ^ 

Pasadena. 

Pasadena Free Library. [i| 
Sacramento. 

Agassiz Institute, [i] 

California State Agricultural Society, [i] 

California State Library, [iii] 

Sacramento Free Library, [iiij 

Sacramento Institute, [i] 

State Engineer's Office, fi] 
San Diego. 

San Diego Lyceum of Sciences, [i] 

San Diego Public Library, [i] 

San Diego Society of Natural History, [i] 
San Francisco. 

Bancroft Library (Pacific Library), [iii] 

Biblioth^que de la Ligue Rationale Fran9aise. [iiij 

Bohemian Club, [i] 

California Academy of Sciences, [iii] 

California State Geological Society (see California State IMiiiiut: 
Bureau). 

California State Horticultural Society, [i] 

California State Mining Bureau, [i] 

Central Pacific Railroad Law Library, [i] 

Geographical Society of the Pacific, [ij 

Lick Observatory, [i] 

Mechanics' Institute, [iii] 

Mercantile Library Association, [iii] 

Odd Fellows' Library Association, [iii] 

Pacific Library (see Bancroft Library). 

Saint Ignatius College, [ii] 

San Francisco Free Public Library, [iii] 

San Francisco Law Library, [i] 

State Board of Horticulture, [i] 

West's (Miss) School for Girls, [i] 



i 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 263 

San Jo86. ^ 

California State Normal School, [i] 

San Jos6 Free Public Library, [ij 

University of the Pacific, [ii] 
San Mateo. 

Laurel Hall Seminary, [i] 
Santa Barbara. 

Morris House Library, [i] 

Santa Barbara Free Public Library, [ii] 

Santa Barbara Society of Natural History. [1] 

Union Club of Santa Barbara, [i] 
Santa Clara. 

Santa Clara College, [iii] 
Stockton. 

County Board of Horticultural Commissioners, [ij 

San Joaquin Society of California Pioneers, [ij 

COIiORADO. 

Boulder. 

University of Colorado, [i] 
Canon City. 

Grand Army Collegiate and Military Institute, [ij 
Colorado Springs. 

Colorado College, [i] 
Denver. 

Bishop's Library, [i] 

Colorado Scientific Society, fi] 

Colorado Seminary (see University of Denver). 

Jarvis Hall School for Boys, and Divinity School, [ij 

State Library, [iii] 

United States Geological Survey, Division of the Rocky Moantr 
ains. |ij 

University of Denver, [ii] 

Wolf Hall School for Girls, [i] 
Fort Collins. 

Colorado Agricultural College, [i] 
Golden. 

State School of Mines, [ij 
Red Cliff. 

Eagle County Mining Club, [ij 

CONNECTICUT. 

Birmingham. 

Allis Circulating Library, [i] 
Bridgeport. 

Bridgeport Public Library and Reading Room, [iii] 
Bridgeport Scientific Society, [ij 



264 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Golainbia. 

Columbia Free Library, [i] 
Goshen. 

Goshen Academy, [i] 
Greenwich. 

Greenwich Free Reading Room and Library Association, [i] 
Hartford. 

Connecticut Historical Society, [iii] 

Connecticut Retreat for the Insane, [i] 

Connecticut State Board of Agriculture, [i] 
I Hartford Library (formerly Young Men's Institute), [i] 

Hartford Theological Seminary, [iii] 

State Board of Education, [i] 

State Library of Connecticut, [iii] 

Trinity College, [iii] 

Watkinsou Library of Reference, [i] 

Young Men's Institute (see Hartford Library). 
Mansfield. 

Storr's Agricultural School, [i] 
Meriden. 

Meriden Scientific Association, [i] 
Middletown. 

Central School, [i] 

Wesley an University, [iii] 
New Britain. , 

N^ew Britain Scientific Association, [i] 

Public High School, [i] 

State Kormal School, [iii] 
New Haven. 

American Oriental Society, [iii] 

Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences (see Yale College). 

Hillhouse High School, [i] 

New Haven Colony Historical Society, [i] 

New Haven Young Meu's Institute, [iii] 

Peabody Museum (see Yale College). 

Sheffield Scientific School (see Yale College). 

State Board of Health, [i] 

Yale College, [iii] 
Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, [i] 
Peabody Museum, [i] 
Sheffield Scientific School, [ii] 
New London. 

New London County Historical Society, [i] 
Norwich. 

Otis Library, [ii] 
Shaker Station. 

Shaker Community for Religious and Charitable Objects, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 265 

Simsbury. 

Siiusbury Free Library, [ij 
Suf^ield. 

Counecticut Literary Institution, [i] 
Waterbury. 

Silas Bronson Library, fiii] 
Woodstock. 

Woodstock Academy, [i] 

DAKOTA. 

Brookings. 

Dakota Agricultural College, [i] 
Ellendale. 

Elleudale Library Association, [i] 
Lisbon. 

Lisbon Library Association, [i] 
Pierre. 

Presbyterian University of Southern Dakota, [i] 
Roscoe. 

Roscoe Beading Room, [i] 
Vermillion. 

University of Dakota, [i] 
Webster. 

Day County Agricultural Society, [i] 
Yankton. 

Yankton College, [i] 

DELAAVARB. 

Dover. 

Delaware State Library, [iii] 
Newark. 

Delaware State College, [iii] 
New Castle. 

New Castle Library Company (Public Library), [iii] 
Wilmington. 

West End Library (Lincoln street, above Delaware avenue), [i] 

Western Free Library (Women's Christian Temperance Union), 
Third and Washington streets, [i] 

Wilmington Institute, [iii] 

DISTRICT OF COI.U]MBIA. 

Washington. 

Agricultural Department, Library of. [iii] 

Entomological Division, [i] 
Botanic Garden, Library of. [i] 
Bureau of Ethnology (see Smithsonian Institution). 
Civil Service Commission, Library of. [i' 



2GG LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Washington — Continued. 

Congress, Library of. [iii] 
Department of Justice, Library of. [i] 
Executive Mansion, Library of. [i] 
Fish Commission, Library of. [i] 
House of Representatives, Library of. [i] 
Interior Department: 

Assistant Attorney-General, [i] 

Bureau of Education, [ii] 

Library of the Interior Department, [iii] 

Scientific Library of Patent OflBce. fiii] 

United States Geological Survey, [iii] 
i^ational Museum (see Smithsonian Institution). 
Navy Department: 

Bureau of ISTavigation. [i] 

Hydrographic Office, [i] 

Museum of Hygiene (Bureau of Medicine and Surgery). [1] 

Nautical Almanac Office, [ij 

Naval Observatory, [iii] 

Navy Department Library, [iii] 

Surgeon-General, U. S. Navy, [i] 
Patent Office (see Interior Department). 
Post-Office Department Library. |i] 
Smithsonian Institution: [iii] 

Bureau of Ethnology, [iii] 

United States National Museum, [iii] 
State Department Library, [iii] 

Consular Bureau, [i] 
Treasury Department: 

Bureau of Engraving and Printing. [iJ 

Bureau of Statistics, [i] 

Director of the Mint, [i] 

Life-Saving Service, [i] 

Light House Board, [i] 

Marine Hospital Service, Surgeon -General. [1] 

Solicitor of the Treasury, Office of. [i] 

Treasury Department Library, [ii] 

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, [i] 
United States Supreme Court, Library of. [i] 
War Department: 

Army Medical Museum (see Surgeon -General's Office). 

Bureau of Military Justice, [i] 

Chief of Engineers, Office of (seeEngineerDepartment,U. S. A.). 

Chief Signal Officer, Office of (see Signal Office.) 

Engineer Department, U. S. A. (Office Chief of Engineers), [iii] 



LIST OP INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 267 

Washington — Cou t i nued . 

Headquarters of the Army of the United States, [ij 

Orduauce Department, Office of Chief of Ordnance, [i] 

Quartermaster General's Office, [ii] 

Signal Office Library, [ii] 

Subsistence Department, Commissary-General, [i] 

Surgeon-General's Office, Library of. fiii] 

War Department Library, [iii] 
Miscellaneous : 

Academy of the Visitation. [iJ 

Agassiz Association. Chap. 109. (I^o. 1600, 13th st). [iJ 

Carroll Literary Institute, [i] 

Columbia Hospital for Women. [iJ 

Columbia Institution for the Deaf and Dumb (National Deaf 
Mute College), [iii] 

Columbian Club, [i] 

Columbian University, [iii] 

Corcoran Gallery of Art. [i] 

Cosmos Club, [i] 

District of Columbia Library (Office of the Commissioners of 
the District of Columbia), [i] 

Georgetown University, [iii] 

Government Hospital for the Insane, [i] 

Health Department (Office of Health Officer), [i] 

Howard University, [ii] 

Kit Carson Post, G. A. E. [iJ 

Louise Home, [i] 

Masonic Library. [i| 

Medical Society of District of Columbia, [i] 

National Board of Health, [i] 

National College of Pharmacy, [i] 

National Deaf Mute College (see Columbia Institution for the 
Deaf and Dumb). 

Norwood Institute, [i] 

Odd Fellows' Library, [i] 

Sailor's Library, Navy Yard, [i] 

Saint John's Collegiate Institute (formerly Saint Matthews' In- 
stitute), [i] 

Soldiers' Home Library, [i] 

Spencerian Business College, [i] 

Washington High School, [iii] 

Washington Light Infantry Corps, [i] 

Washington Microscopical Society, [i] 

Young iNIen's Christian Association. [1] 

Young People's Union of the Memorial Lutheran Church. [1] 



268 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

FliORIDA. 

De Funiak Springs (Lake de Funiak). 

Florida Chautauqua Library, [i] 
Jacksonville. 

Public Library, [i] 

Milton. 

Sauta Rosa Academy Public Library, [ii] 

Pensacola. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

iSaint Augustine. 

Free Public Library, [i] 

Military Post, U. S. A, Library of. [i] 

Saint Augustine Institute of Natural Science, [i] 

Sanford. 

Sanford Library and Reading Room, [i] 

Tallahassee. 

Florida University, [i] 

GEORGIA. 

Athens. 

Home School for Young Ladies, [i] 
University of Georgia, [iii] 
Atlanta. 

Abyssinian Library Society, [i] 
Atlanta Medical College, [i] 
Department of Agriculture, [ii] 
Department of Education, [i] 
Georgia Eclectic Medical College, [i] 
State Library, [iiij 
Young Mens' Library Association, [ii] 

Angusta. 

Medical Department of University of Georgia. I i ! 
Young Men's Library Association, [i] 

Barnesville. 

Gordon Institute Library, [i] 

Blackshear. 

Blackshear Library Association, [i] 
Bowdon. 

Bowdon College, [i] 
Brunswick. 

Brunswick Library Association, [i] 
Butler. 

Butler Female College and Male Institute, fi] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 2<^9 

Carrollton. 

Eeese's High School, [i] 
Cave Spring. 

Georgia Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, [ii] 
Columbus. • 

Columbus Female College, [i] 

Columbus Public Library, [i] 

Dahlonega. 

North Georgia Agricultural College, [i] 
Forsyth. 

Monroe Female College, [ij 
Hinesville. 

Bradwell Institute (see Walthoursville). 
Macon. 

Geoigia State Agricultural Society, [i] 

Mercer University, [iiij 

Public Library and Historical Society, [iii] 

Wesleyan Female College, [i] 

Milledgeville. 

Georgia State Lunatic Asylum, [i] 

Monroe. 

Young Men's Library, [i] 

Oxford. 

Emory College, [iiij 
Perry. 

Perr^' Library Association, [i] 
Roscoe. 

Alexander H. Stephens Seminary, [i] 
Savannah. 

Catholic Library Association, [i] 

Georgia Historical Society, [iii] 

Georgia Military Academy, [i] 
Talbotton. 

Collingsworth Institute, [i] 
Walthourville. 

Bradwell Institute, [i] 
West Point. 

Young Men's Library Association, [i] 



270 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

ILLINOIS. 

Abingdon. 

Hedding College, [i] 

Albion. 

Albiou Library Association, [i] 
Aledo. 

Mercer County Scientific Association, [i] 
Aurora. 

Youug Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Barry. 

Library and Reading Eoom. [i] 

Belvidere. 

Ida Public Library, [i] 

Bethany. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 
Bloomington. 

Bloomingtou Library Association, [ii] 

lliiuois Wesleyan University, [iii] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Bourbonnais Grove. 

Saint Viateur's College, [i] 

Bushnell. 

Western Normal College, [i] 

Byron. 

Byron Library, [i] 

Canton. 

Canton Union Graded School, fi] 

Carbondale. 

Southern Illinois Normal University, [ii] 

CarroUton. 

Carrollton Library Association, [i] 

Carthage. 

Carthage College, [i] 
Champaign. 

University of Illinois (formerly lUiuois Industrial University^, 
[ii,] " 

Charleston. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Chicago. 

Agassiz Association, Chap. F. [i] 

Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, fij 

Chicago Academy of Sciences, [iii] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 271 

Chicago — Continued. 

Chicago Athenaeum, [i] 

Chicago College of Phanuacy. [i] 

Chicago nistorical Society, fiii] 

Chicago Law Institute, [i] 

Chicago Manual Training School, [i] 

Chicago Public Library, [iii] 

Chicago Theological Seminary, [iii] 

Dearborn Observatory, [i] 

North Division High School. |i] 

Ridgway Ornithological Club, 2340 Wabash avenue, [ij 

Saint Ignatius College, [i] 

University of Chicago, [iii] 

West Division High School, [i] 

Western Society of Engineers, [i] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [iii] 

Young INI en's Christian Association (Eaihoad Branch, Kinzie 

street), [i] 
Cuba. 

Cuba Library Association, [i] 

Danville. 

Danville High School, [ii] 

Danville Public Library, [i] 

East Illinois College, [i] 
Decatur. 

Decatur High School, [i] 

Free Public Library, [i] 

Delavan. 

Delavan High School, [i] 

Dixon. 

jS^orthern Illinois Kormal School (succeeds Rock River Univer- 
sity), [i] 
Dover. 

Dover Academy, [i] 
Dunning. 

Cook County Hosi)ital for the Insane, [i] 
Elgin. 

Elgin Academy, [i] 

Elgin Public Library, [i] 

Elgin Scientific Society. [iJ 

Illinois Iiiforthern Hospital for the Insane, [i] 
Elmhurst. 

Evangelical (Protestant) Seminary (Mensch Verein). fi] 
Englewood. 

Cook County Normal School (see Normal ville). 



272 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Eureka. 

Eureka College, [ii] 

Evanston. 

Evaiiston Free Public Library. [1] 
Garrett Biblical Institute, [i] 
Northwestern University, [iii] 

Ewing. 

Ewing College, [i] 

Parmer City. 

Farmer City Circulating Library. [1] 

Fayetteville. 

Fayetteville Library Association, [ij 

Galesburg. 

Knox College, [iii J 
Lombard University, [ii] 

Godfrey. 

Monticello Female Seminary, [i] 

Harvard. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Havana. 

Havana Library, [i] 

Jacksonville. 

Illinois Central Hospital for the Insane, [i] 

Illinois College, [iii] 

Illinois Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, [ii] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Jerseyville. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Joliet. 

Young Men's Christian Association. [iJ 

Knoxville. 

Knoxville Public Library, [i] 
Saint Mary's School, [i] 

Lebaiion. 

McKendree College, [iii] 

Lincoln. 

Lincoln Library Association. [1] 
Lincoln University, [i] 

Lombard. 

Village Library, [i] 

Macomb. 

Macomb Free Public Library, [i] 

Macomb N^ormal, Scientific, and Commercial College, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 273 

Marengo. 

Farmers' Club, [i] 
Mattoon. 

Mattoou Public Scbool Library, [i] 

Youug Meu's Christian Association, [i] 

Mendota. 

Mendota Library Association, [i] 

Monmouth. 

Monmouth College, [i] 

Warren County Library and Reading Room Association, [iii] 
Morris. 

Illinois State Horticultural Society, [i] 
Morrison. 

Morrison Literary and Scientific Association. [1] 
Mount Morris. 

Mount Morris College (Cassel Library), [iii] 

Normal. 

Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History, [iii] 
Illinois State Normal University. [i| 

Normalville. 

Cook County Normal School, [i] 
OIney. 

Olney Public Library, fi] 

Richland Society of Natural History. [1] 

Onarga. 

Grand Prairie Seminary, [i] 
Onarga Library, [i] 

Ottawa. 

Ottawa Township High School, [iij 
Paris. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Paxton. 

Augustana College and Theological Seminary. (See Bock Island.) 
Pekin. 

Public Library Association, [i] 
Peoria. 

Peoria Public Library, [iii] 

Peoria Scientific .Association, [i] 

Young Meu's Christian Association, [i] 

Young Men's Christian Association (Railroad Branch), [i] 
Petersburg. 

Petersburg Public Library, [i] 
Pittsfield. 

Pittsfleld Public Library, fi] 

H. M = s. l.-i IS 



274 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Fontiac. 

Poiitiac Library Association, [i] 

Princeton. 

Princeton Academy of Sciences, [i] 
Princeton High School, [ii] 

ftuincy. 

Quincy High School, [i] 
Quincy Library, [i] 

Rantoul. 

Kantoul Literary Society, [i] 

Rochelle. 

Rochelle Public School Library, [i] 

Rockford. 

Public Library of Eockford. [iii] 
Kockford Seminary, [i] 

Rock Island. 

Augnstana College and Theological Seminary, [i] 
Rock Island Public Library, [ii] 

Roodhouse. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Sandwich. 

Sandwich Library, [i] 

Sandwich Naturalists Association, [i] 

Saybrook. 

Ladies' Library Association, [i] 
Springfield. 

Geological Survey of Illinois, [i] 

Illinois State Board of Agriculture, [i] 

Illinois State Board of Health, [i] 

Illinois State Historical Society and Natural History Museam. [i] 

Illinois State Library, [iii] 

Springfield Library Association, [iii] 

Young Men's Cbristian Association, [i] 

Sterling. / 

Public High School, [ij 
Sterling Public Library, [i] 

Upper Alton. 

Shurtlefif College, [i] 
TJrbana. 

University of Illinois. (See Champaign.) 
Vermillion Grove. 

Vermillion Grove Academy, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES 275 

Vermont. 

Union School, [i] 

Virginia. 

Central Illinois Science Association, fi] 

Walshville. 

Farmers' Library, [ij 

Westfield. 

Westfleld College, [ii] 
Wheaton. 

Wheatou College, [iii] 
White Hall. 

White Hall Library Association, [i] 
Winchester. 

Winchester Public School Library. [iJ 

INDIANA. 

Anderson. 

Madison County Historical Society, [i] 
Bloomington. 

Indiana State University, [iii] 
Bourbon. 

Bourbon High School, [i] 
Brazil. 

Brazil Public Library Association, [i] 
Brookville. 

Brookville Society of Natural History. [iJ 
Clayton. 

Indiana Horticultural Society, [i] 
Crawfordsville. 

Wabash College Library, [iii] 
Crown Point. 

Ball's Circulating Library, [i] 

Crown Point Public School Library. [1] 
Danville. 

(viMitral Normal College, [i] 
Delphi. • 

Public School Library, [i] 
Evansville. 

Evansville Public Library, [iii] 

Fort Wayne. 

Catholic Library, [i] 

Concordia College, Evangelical Lutheran, [iij 

Fort Wayne Public School Library, [i] 



27u LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Frankfort. 

Frankfort School Reference Library, [i] 

Franklin. 

Franklin College, [i] 
Garrett. 

Library Association of Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Employes, [i] 

Goshen. 

Goshen School City Library, [i] 
Normal School, [i] 

Greencastle. 

De Pauw University (formerly Asbury University), [iii] 
Mississippi Valley Horticultural Society. [1] 
Public School Library, [i] 

Greenfield. 

Greenfield Society for the Advancement of Science, [ij 
Greenwood. 

Greenwood High School Library. [iJ 

Hanover. 

Hanover College, [iii] 
Hartsville. 

Hartsville College, [i] 
Huntington. 

Public School Library, [i] 

Indianapolis. 

Bureau of Statistics of Indiana. [iJ 

Department of Geology and Katural History. [1] 

Indiana Hospital for the Insane, [i] 

Indiana Institution for the Education of the Blind, [i] 

Indiana Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, [i] 

Indiana State Board of Agriculture, [i] 

Indiana State Board of Health. [1] 

Indiana State Library, [iii] 

Indiana State Medical Society, [i] 

Indianapolis Lyceum of Natural History. [1] 

Indianapolis Public Library, [iii] 

Mechanical Engineers' Library and Reading Room, [i] 

Medical College of Indiana, [iij 
Irvington. 

Butler University, [iii] 

Lafayette. 

Purdue University, [iii] 

La Porte. 

Public Library and Natural History Society, [iij 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 277 

Laurel. 

High School of Laurel, [i] 

Lawrenceburg. 

Lawrenceburg Public School Library, [i] 

Logausport. 

High School Library, [i] 

Trinity Church Working Men's Club, [i] 

Madison. 

Library Association, [i] 

Merom. 

Union Christian College, [ii] 

Milltown. 

Whisky Eun Township Library, [i] 

Mishawaka. 

Mishawaka High School, [i] 

Monticello. 

Monticello High School, [i] 
Moore's Hill. 

Moore's Hill College, [ii] 
New Albany. 

De Pauw College for Young Women, [i] 

l!^ew Albany Society of Natural History, [iii] 

New Albany Township Library, [i] 

New Harmony. 

New Harmony Working Men's Institute, [ij 

New Providence. 

Borden Institute Historical Society, [i] 

Notre Dame. 

University of Notre Dame clu Lac. [iii] 

Paoli. 

Working Men's Institute, [i] 
Princeton. 

Princeton Library Association, [i] 

Rensselaer. 

Iroquois Library, [i] 
Richmond. 

Earlham College, [i] 

Morrison Library, [i] 

Ridgeville. 

llidgeville College. [iJ 
Rising Sun. 

Natural History Club, [ij 



278 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Saint Meinrad. 

Saint Meinrad College, [ii] 

South Bend. 

City Library, [ij 

Young Men's Christian Association, fij 

Spiceland. 

Spiceland Academy (Crescent Library), [i] 

Terre Haute. 

Indiana State Normal School, [ii] 
Eose Polytechnic Institute, [iii] 

Valparaiso. 

Northern Indiana Normal School (private), [i] 
Valparaiso High School, [i] 

Vincennes. 

Public School Library, [i] 
Vincennes University, [i] 

Warsaw. 

Warsaw Public School Library, [i] . 

"Winchester. 

Winchester High School Lecture and Library Association, fi] 

INDIAN TERRITORY. ' 

Tahlequah. 

Cherokee National Female Seminary, [i] 
Cherokee National Male Seminary, [ij 
Cherokee National Orphan Asylum, [i] 

IOWA. 
Albion. 

Albion Seminary, [i] 

Ames. 

State Agricultural College, [iij 
Bloomfield. 

Academy of Science, [i] 

Southern Iowa Normal School and Commercial Institute, [i] 

Boone. 

Public School Library, [i] 

Burlington. 

Burlington University, [iii] 
Public Library, [i] 

Cedar Falls. 

Free Public Library, [i] 

Cedar Eapids. 

Grand Lodge of Masons of Iowa. [iiJ 



I 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. '.>79 

College Springs. 

Amity College. [i| 

Council Bluffs. 

Free Public Library, [i] 

Iowa Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, [ij 

Davenport. 

Daven]>ort Academy of Natural Sciences, [iiij 
Griswold College, [iii] 

Decorah, 

Norwegian Lutheran College, [i] 

Des Moines. 

Des Moines Academy of Sciences, [i] 

Des Moines Library, [i] 

Drake Uuiverfeity. [iJ 

lovTa State Library, [-iii] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Dexter. 

Dexter Normal School, [i] 
Dubuque. 

Iowa Institute of Science and Art. [ii] 
Earlham. 

Earlham Public School Library, [i] 
Fairfield. 

Jefferson County Library Association, [iij 

Parsons College, [i] 
Fayette. 

Upper Iowa University, [i] 
Fort Dodge. 

Fort Dodge Library Association, [i] 
Grinnell. 

Iowa College, [iii] 
Humboldt. 

Humboldt College, [iii] 
Independence. 

Independence Free Public Library, [i] 
Indiancla. 

I ndianola Public Library, [i] 

Simpson Centenary College, [iij 
Iowa City. 

Grand Lodge of Masons (see Cedar Rapids). 

Iowa Weather Service, [i] 

State Historical Society of Iowa, [iii] 

State University of Iowa, [iii] 



280 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS I.\ UNITED STATES. 

Keokuk. 

Keokuk Libnvry Associntiou. [iii] 

Manchester. 

Manchester High School (ludepcudeut School District), [i] 
Manchester Eeading Room (Ladies), [i] 

Monticello. 

Ladies' Library Society, [i] 
Monticello High School, [ij 

Mount Pleasant. 

iowa Hospital tor the Insane, [i] 
Iowa Wesleyau University, [iii] 

i'liilomathean Society, [i] 
Ladies' Library Association. [iJ 

Mount Vernon. 

Cornell College, [iii] 

Muscatine. 

Muscatine Academy of Science. [1] 

Muscatine High School, [i] 
Osage. 

Cedar Valley Seminary, [ii] 

Oskaloosa. 

Oskaloosa College, [iiij 
Penu College, [ij 

Ottumwa. 

Wapello County Natural Science Association, [ij 
River View. 

Grant Township Farmers' Club Library, [i] 

Shenandoah. 

Western Normal College and Shenandoah Commercial Institute. 

Sutherland. 

General (N. B.) Baker Library, [i] 
Tabor. 

Tabor College. [iJ 

West Union. 

West Union ScieutKic Association, [i] 

Wilton Junction. 

Wilton Scientific Club, [i] 

KAT>rSAS. 
Atchison. 

Kansas Baptist Association, [i] 

Saint Benedict's College, [i] 

Baldwin City. 

Baker University, [i] , 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. " 281 

Black Jack. 

Young Men's Library Association, [i] 

Burlington. 

Otter Creek Library Association, [i] 

Emporia. 

State Normal School, [i] 

Fort Leavenworth. 

Medical Director's Office of the Department of Missouri, [i] 

Girard. 

Girard Literary and Library Society, [i] 

Holton. 

Campbell formal University, [i] 

Lawrence. 

Kansas State University, [iii] 
I^awreuce City Library, [ii] 

Leavenworth. 

Public Beading Eoom. [i] 

Manhattan. 

Kansas State Agricultural College, [iii] 

Norton. 

North Public School Library, [i] 

Olathe. 

Kansas Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, fi] 

Ottawa. 

Ottawa University, [i] 
Paola. 

Paola Library, [i] 

Salina. 

Saliua Normal University, [iii] 

Topeka. 

Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6 Railroad Company, [i] 

Kansas State Board of Agriculture, [i] 

Kansas State Historical Society, [iij 

Kansas State Library, [iii] 

Washburn College, [ii] 
Wellington. 

Wellington Library Association, [i] 

Wichita. 

Wichita High School, [i] 
Winfield. 

Winlield Public School Library, [ij 



282 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

KENTUCKY. 

Bowling Green. 

Ogden College, [ij 

State Board of Health, [i] 
CyntMana. 

Cynthiana Graded School, [i] 
Danville. 

Centre College of Kentucky, [iii] 
Eminence. 

Eminence College, [i] 
Farmdale. 

Kentucky Military Institute, [ii] 
Frankfort. 

Bureau of Agriculture, Horticulture, and Statistics, [i] 

Department of Public Instruction, [i] 

Kentucky Geological Survey, [iii] 

State Library, [i] 

Garnettsville. 

Salem College, [i] 

Georgetown. 

Georgetown College, [iii] 
Glasgow. 

Glasgow Normal School. [iJ 

Liberty Female College, [i] 
Harrodsburg. 

Harrodshurg Library Association. [1] 
Hopkinsville. 

Western Kentucky Lunatic Asylum, [i] 
Lexington. 

Agricultural and Mechanical College (see State College of Ken 
tucky). 

Eastern Lunatic Asylum, [i] 

Kentucky University (successor to Transvlvanhi l^'nivcrsitv). 
[iii] 

State College of Kentucky (formerly Agricultural and Median 
leal College), [i] 
Louisville. 

Grand Lodge of Kentucky (Masonic), [i] 

Louisville College of Pharmacy, [i] 

Louisville Female High School, [i] 

Louisville Library Association, [ii] 

Louisville Medical College, [i] 

Louisville Press Club, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS lis UNITED STATES. 283 

Louisville — Coutiuued. 

Male High School, [i] 

Ohio Falls Geological Society, [i] 

Polytechnic Society ol Kentucky (formerly Public Library of 

Kentucky), [iii] 
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary (formerly at Greenville, 

S. C.). [ii] 

Maysville. 

Maysville and Mason County Library, Historical and Scientific 
A.ssociation. [i] 
Morgantown. 

Seminary and I^"ormal School, [i] 
Owensborough. 

Owensborough Public School Library. [1] 
Princeton. 

Princeton Collegiate Institute, [i] 
Bichmond. 

Central University, [ii] 

Rnssell villa. 

• Bethel College, [iii] 

I.OUISIANA. 

Baton Bouge. 

Louisiana Historical Society, [i] 

Louisiana Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, [ij 

Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical 
College, [iii] 
' Convent. ' 

Jefferson College, [i] 
Grand Coteau, 

Saint Charles College, [iii] 
Jackson. 

Centenary College of Louisiana, [i] 

Insane Asylum of the State of Louisiana, [i] 
New Orleans. 

Board of Health, [i] 

City Library, [iii] 

Louisiana Historical Society (see Baton Rouge). 

New Orleans Produce Exchange. [i| 

Soul6 Commercial College and Literary Institute, [i] 

State Library of Louisiana, [iii] 

Tulane University (includes Fisk Free Library, New Orleans 
Academy of Sciences, and University of Louisiana), jiii] 



284 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

MAIISTS. 

Augusta. 

Maine Board of Agriculture, [i] 
Maine Insane Hospital. \i] 
Maine State Library, [iiij 

Bangor. 

Bangor Public Library, [iii] 
Bangor Theological Seminary, [iii] 
Penobscot Bar Library Association. [i] 

Brunswick. 

Bowdoin College, [iii] 

Bucksport 

East Maine Conference Seminary, [ij 

Cumberland Centre. 

Greely Institute, [i] 

Deering. 

Westbrook Seminary (Frost Library), [i] 

Eastport. 

Eastport Public Library Association. [iJ , 

Fort Preble. 

Post Library of Fort Preble (see Portland). 

Hebron. 

Hebron Academy (Hamlin Library), [ii] ' 

Kittery. 

Rice Public Library, [i] 

Lewiston. 

Bates College, [i] 

Manufacturers and Mechanics' Library, [ii] 

Teachers' Library (Public School), [i] 

Livermore. 

Livermore High School, [i] 

North Parsonsfield. 

Parsonsfield Seminary, [i] 

Oldtown. 

Oldtown High School, [ij 
Orono. 

Maine State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, [iii] 

Portland. 

Maine Historical Society, [iii] 
Portland Public Library, [iii] 
Portland Society of Natural History, [iii] 
Post Library of Fort Preble, [i] 
Saint Luke's Cathedral Library, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 285 

Saco. 

York Institute, [ii] 
Togus. 

I^ational Home for Disabled Voluuteer Soldiers, [ij 
Warren. 

Warren Branch of Agassiz Association, [i] 
Waterville. 

Agassiz Association. (Chap. 4G5.) [i] 

Colby University, [iii] 

Wiscasset. 

Wiscasset Social Library, [i] 

3IARYIiAND. 

Agricultural College. 

Maryland Agricultural College, fiii] 
Annapolis. 

Maryland State Library, [iii] 

Saint John's College, [iiij 

United States Naval Academy, [iii] 
Baltimore. 

City Library, [i] 

Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, [iii] 

Health Department of the city of Baltimore, [i] 

House of Refuge, [i] 

Johns Hopkins University, [iii] 

Loyola College, [ii] 

Maryland Academy of Sciences, [ii] 

Maryland Historical Society, [iii] 

Maryland Institute for Promotion of Mechanic Arts, [iii] 

Maryland State Norma] School, [ii] 

Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of Maryland. [iJ 

Mercantile Library Association of Baltimore, [iii] 

Peabody Institute, [iii] 

Saint Mary's University" and Theological Seminary of Saint Sal- 
pice, [iii] 

State Board of Health, [i] 

Centreville. 

Centreville A(!ademy. [i] 
Chestertown. 

Washington College, [iii] 

College of Saint James. 

College of Saint James (High School), [iii] 
College Station. 

Maryland Agricultural College (see Agricultural College). 
Ellicott City. 

Patapsco r'emale Institute, [i] 

Rock Hill College, [i] 



■2SQ LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Emmittsburg. 

Mount Saint Mary's College, [iii] 

Frederick. 

Adam Lodge, I. O. O. F. [i] 

Frederick College, [i] 

Maryland School for the Deaf and Dumb, [i] ' 

Hagerstown. 

Thursday Club Library and Reading Eoom. [i] 

McDonogh. 

McDouogh School, [i] 

"Westminster. 

Western Maryland College, [ii] 
Webster Literary Society. [11 

Williamsport. 

Madeiry Lodge (Masonic), [i] 

Woodstock. 

Woodstock College, [iii] 

MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst. 

Amherst College, [iii] 
Lawrence Observatory, [i] 
Massachusetts Agricultural College, [ii] 

Andover. 

Andover Theological Seminary, [iii] 
Memorial Hall Library, [ij 
Phillips Academy, [i] 

Ashburnham. 

Cushing Academy, [i] 

Beverly. 

Public Library, [i] 
Billerica. 

Bennett Public Library Association, [i] 

Boston. 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, [iii] 

American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, [iii] 

American Congregational Association, [i] 

American Gynecological Society, [i] 

American Statistical Association, {iii] 

Appalachian Mountain Club [i] 

Boston Art Club, [i] 

Boston Athenaeum, [iii] 

Boston City Hospital, [i] 

Boston College, [ii] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED .STATES. 287 

Boston — Continued. 

Boston Library Society, [iiij 
Boston Medical Library Association, [ii] 
Boston Public Library, [iii] 
Boston Society of Civil Engineers, [i] 
Boston Society of Natural History, [iii] 
Boston University, [ii] 
Boston Zoological Society, [i] 
Bureau of Statistics, [i] 
City Engineers' Office, [i] 
Girls' High School, [i] 

Health Department (see State Board of Health). 
Horace Maun Day School for the Deaf and Dumb, [i] 
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy, [i] 
Massachusetts Historical Society, [iii] 
Massachusetts Horticultural Society, [i] 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, [iii] 
Massachusetts Medical Society, [i] 
Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture, [i] 
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani- 
mals, [i] 
Naval Library and Institute, [iii] 
New England Historic-Genealogical Society, [iii] 
New England Methodist Historical Society, [i] 
Perkins Institution and Massachusetts School for the Blind, [i] 
State Board of Health, Lunacy, and Charity, [i] 
State Library of Massachusetts, [iii] 

Bradford. 

Bradford Academy. [i]» 

Bridgewater. 

Bridgewater Public Library, [i] 
State Normal School, [ii] 

Brookline. 

Brookline Public Library, [ii] 

Cambridge. 

Astronomical Observatory, [i] 

Botanic Garden and IJerbarium. [i] 

Cambridge Entomological Club, [i] 

Episcopal Theological School of Maseachusetts. [1] 

Harvard Natural History Society, [i] 

Harvard University, [iii] 

Lawrence Scientific School, [i] 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, [iii] 

Peabody Museum of Am. Archaeology and Ethnology, [iiij 



288 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Cambridgeport 

Cambridge Public Library. [11] 

Centreville. 

Centreville Library Association. [1] 

Chelsea. 

High School, [i] 

Cohasset. 

Oohasset Free Public Library, [i] 

College Hill. 

Tufts CoUege. [ill] 

Concord. 

Concord Free Public Library, [iii] 

Danvers. 

Peabody Institute and Library, [ii] 

Easthampton. 

Public Library Association. [1] 

Fall Eiver. 

Fall River Public Library, [iiij 

Florence. 

High School. [1] 

Gloucester. 

Cape Ann Scientific and Literary Association, [i] 
Sawyer Free Library, [iii] 

Greenfield. 

Greenfield Natural History Society, [i] 

Groton. 

Lawrence Academy, [i] • 

Hardwick. 

Ladies' Free Library Association, [i] 

Harvard. 

Bromfield School, [i] 

Harwich. 

Broadbrooks Free Library, [i] 

Haverhill. 

Haverhill Public Library, [iii] 

Hingham Centre. 

Hingham Public Library, [iii] 

Holbrook. 

Holbrook Public Library, [i] 

Ipswich. 

Ipswich Public Library, [ii] 

Jamaica Plains. 

Bussey Institution (Agricultural and Horticultural), [iij 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 289 

Lancaster. 

Lancaster Town Library, [iii] 

Lawrence. 

Lawrence Public Library, [iii] 

Leicester. 

Leicester Public Library, [i] 

Lenox. 

Lenox Academy and Agassiz Association. [1] 

Leominster. 

Public Library, [i] 

Lexington. 

Carey Memorial Library, [ii] 

Lowell. 

Green School, [ij 

Lowell City Library, [iii] 

Middlesex Mechanics' Association, [iii] 
Lynn. 

Lynn Free Public Library, [ii] 

Maiden. 

Maiden Public Library, [i] 

Manchester. 
F Manchester Public Library, [i] 

Milford. 

Milford Town Library, [i] 

Monson. 

Monson Academy (Flynt & Packard Library), [i] 

Nahant. 

Nahant Public Library, [i] 

Nantncket. 

ISTantucket Athenaeum, [iii] 

New Bedford. 

Free Public Library of ISTew Bedford, [iii] 

New Bedford High School, [i] 
Newburyport. 

Newburyport Public Library, [iii] 
Newton. 

Newton Free Library, [ii] 

Newton Centre. 

Newton Theological Institution, [iii] 
Northampton. 

Clarke Institution for Deaf-Mutes. [i] 

Northampton Free Public Library, [iii] 

Northampton Lunatic Hospital, [i] 

Smith CoUege for Women, [ii] 
H. Mis. 15 19 



290 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Northborough. 

Northborough Free Library, [i] 

North Brookfield. 

North Brookfield Free Public Library. [1] 

North Chelmsford. 

North (Jhelmsford Library Association. [i[ 

Peabody. 

Peabody Institute Library, [iii] 

Pembroke. 

Pembroke Free Library Association, [ij 

Pittsfield. 

Berkshire Athenaeum, [i] 

Guincy. 

Thomas Grane Public Library, [ii] 

Roxbury. 

Dudley Association, [i] 

Fellows' Athenseum (formerly Roxbury AthenaBum). [iii] 
Salem. 

American Association for the Advancement of Science (office of 
Secretary), [i] 

Essex Institute, [iii] 

Peabody Academy of Science, [iii] 

Salem Athenaeum, [iii] 

Somerville. 

McLean Asylum for the Insane, [i] 

South Braintree. 

Thayer Public Library, [ij 

Southbridge. 

Southbridge Public Library, [i] 

South Hadley. 

Mount Holyoke Female Seminary, [ii] 
Observatory. [iJ 

South Natick. 

Historical and Natural History and Library Society, [ii] 

South Scituate. 

James Library, [i] 

Springfield. 

City Library Association, [iii] 

Stockbridge. 

Jackson Library of Stockbridge. [1] 

Taunton, 

Old Colony Historical Society, [i] 
Public Library, [iii] 
Taunton Lunatic Hospital, [i] 



k 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 201 

Tyngsborough. 

Tyngsborough Public Library, [i] 

Vineyard Haven. 

Sailors' Free Library, [ij 

Wakefield. 

Beebe Town Library of Wakefield, [i] 

Waltham. 

Holmes Club, [i] 

Waltham Public Library, [ii] 

Wareham. 

Wareham High School, [i] 

Warren. 

Warren Public Library, [i] 

Watertown. 

Free Public Library, [iii] 

Wayland. 

Wayland Free Public Library, [i] 

Wellesley. 

Wellesley College, [iii] 

West Bridgewater. 

West Bridgewater Public Library, [i] 

West Roxbury. 

West Roxbury Free Library, [i] 

Weymouth. 

Tufts Library, [i] • ♦ 

Wilbraham. 

Wesleyan Academy, [i] 
Williamstown. 

Williams College, [iii] 
Winchester. 

Winchester Public Library, [ii] 
Woburn. 

Woburn Public Library, [iii] 

Worcester. 

American Antiquarian Society, [iii] 

Free Public Library of the City of Worcester, [iii] 

Holy Cross College, [iii] 

State i^ormal School, [i] 

Winslow Street Public School, [i] 

Worcester County Free Institute of Industrial Science, [ii] 

Worcester Lunatic Hospital, [i] 

Worcester Lyceum and Natural History Association, [i] 

Worcester Society of Antiquity, [i] 



292 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

MICHIGAN. 

Adrian. 

Adrian College, [iii] 

Lambda Phi Society, [i] 
Adrian Scientific Society, [ij 

Agricultural College. 

State Agricultural College (see Lansing). 

Albion. 

Albion College, [iii] 

Ann Arbor. 

Ann Arbor High School, [i] 
Observatory, [i] 
University of Michigan, [iii] 

Battle Creek. 

Battle Creek College, [i] 

Battle Creek Public School Library, [i] 

Medical and Surgical Sanitarium, [i] 

Coldwater. 

Free Public Library, [i] 

Detroit. 

Detroit Medical and Library Association, [i] 

Detroit Public High School, [i] 

Detroit Scientific Association, [i] 

Michigan State Agricultural Society, [i] 
^ Public Library of the City of Detroit, [iii] 

Eaton Eapids. 

Public Library of the City, [i] 

Elm Hall. 

Elm Hall Graded School, [i] 

Grand Haven. 

Union School Library, [i] 

Grand Rapids. 

Kent Scientific Institute (of Grand Rapids High School), [i] 

Public School Library, [ii] 

West Michigan Farmers' Club, [i] 

Hillsdale. 

Hillsdale College, [iii] 

Kalamazoo. 

Kalamazoo College, [iii] 
Kalamazoo Public School Library, [i] 
Ladies' Library j^ ssociation. [ii] 
Michigan Asylum for the Insane, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 29, '> 

Lansing. 

Michigan State Library, [iii] 
Micliigan State Medical Society, [i] 
State Agricultural College, [iii] 
State Board of Education, [ij 
State Board of Health, [i] 

P Monroe. 

Monroe Young Ladies' Seminary, [i] 

Niles. 

Mies Public School Library, [i] 

OHvet. 

Olivet College, [ii] 

Orchard Lake. 

Michigan Military Academy, [i] 

Port Huron. 

Ladies' Library Association of Port Huron, [ii] 

Saint Clair. 

Somerville School for Young Ladies, [i] 

South Haven. 

South Haven Antiquarian Society, [i] 

Spring Arbor. 

Spring Arbor Seminary, [i] 

Sumner. 

Public School Library. [1] 

Wayland. 

Wayland Horticultural Society. [1] 

West Bay City. 

Sage Public Library, [i] 

White Pigeon. 

White Pigeon Grange (No. 304). [i] 

Ypsilanti. 

State Normal School, [i] 

Ypsilanti Public School Library, [i] 

MINNESOTA. 

Albert Lea. 

Albert Lea College for Young Ladies. [1] 
Alexandria. 

Alexandria Public Library, [i] 
Austin. 

Austin Natural History Society, [i] 
Cannon River Falls. 

Cannon River Falls Society of Natural Sciences, fi] 



294 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Claremont. 

Olaremont Public School Library, [i] 

Duluth. 

Kitchi Gammi Club, [i] 

Ladies' Library Association of Duluth. [ij 

Youug Men's Christian Association Free Keading Room, [iij 

Faiabault. 

Minuesota Institution for the Education of the Deaf, Dumb, and 

Blind, [i] 
Saint Mary's Hall School, [i] 

Fort Snelling. . i 

Medical Directors' Library of Headquarters Department of Da- 
kota, [i] 

Hamline. 

Hamline University (formerly at Saint Paul), [i] 

Mankato. 

Second State Normal School, [i] 

Minneapolis. 

Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota, [i] 
Minneapolis Athenceum. [i] 
Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences, [i] 
University of Minnesota, [iii] 

Northfield. 

Oarleton College, [ii] 
Observatory, [i] 

Red Wing. 

Red Wing Norwegian Evangelical Lutheran Seminary, p] 
Red Wing Ornithological Society. [iJ 
State Board of Health of Minnesota, [i] 

Saint Cloud. 

State Normal School, [ii] 

Saint Paul. 

Department of Public Instruction, [i] 

Chamber of Commerce, [i] 

Hamline University (see Hamline). 

Macalester College, [i] 

Minnesota Historical Society, [iii] 

Saint Paul Academy of Natural Sciences, [i] 

Saint Paul Public Library, [ii] 

State Library, [iii] 

Saint Peter. 

Minnesota Hospital for the Insane, [i] 



LIST OP INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 295 

Stillv/ater. 

Stillwater Library Association, [iii] 

Winona. 

State Normal School, [i] 

MISSISSIPPI. 

Agricultural College. 

Agricultural and Mechanical College. [Iii] 

Blue Mountain. 

Blue Mountain Female CoUege. [i] 

Byhalia. 

Waverly Institute, [i] 

Clinton. 

Mississippi College, [i] 

Hermenian Society, [i] 

Philomathean Society, [i] 
Columbus. 

Columbus Public Library, [i] 

Female Industrial College, [ii] 

Corinth. 

Graded High School, [i] 
Daleville. 

Cooper Institute, [ii] 
Holly Springs. 

Mississippi State Normal School, [i] 

Jackson. 

Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. [1] 

Mississippi State Lunatic Asylum, [i] 

State Library (S. I. publications transferred to Agricultural and 

Mechanical College). 
Natchez. 

Natchez Library Association, [i] 
Oxford. 

Union Female College, [i] 

University of Mississippi, [iii] 
Port Gibson. 

Chamberlain- Hunt Academy, [i] 
Bodney. 

Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College, [i] 
Summit. 

Lea Female College. [1] 
"Washington. 

Jefferson College (Academy), [ii] 
West Point. 

West Point Literary and Library Association, [i] 



296 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN' UNITED STATES. 

MISSOURI. 

Ashley. 

Watson Seminary, [i] 
Avalon, 

Avalon College of the United Brethren in Christ, [ij 
Carthage. 

Carthage Public School Library. [iJ 
Chillicothe. 

Hazleton Public School Library, [i] 
Clarksburg. 

Hooper Institute, [i] 

College Mound. 

McGee College (see Pauline Holiness College). 
Pauline Holiness College, [i] 

Columbia. 

Agricultural and Mechanical College, [i] 

University of the State of Missouri, [iii] 
Edinburgh. 

Grand Eiver College, [i] 
Fayette. 

Central College, [ii] 
Fulton. 

Missouri Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, [i] 

State Lunatic Asylum, [i] 

Glasgow. 

Pritchett School Institute, [i] 
Morrison Observatory, [i] 

Grant City. 

Grant City Eeform Club, [i] 
Jefferson City. 

Missouri Historical Society (see Saint Louis). 

Missouri State Library, [iii] 
Kansas City. 

Kansas City Academy of Sciences, [i] 

Kansas City Public Library, [ii] 

Query Club, [i] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Kirksville. 

North Missouri State Normal School, [iii] 

La Grange. 

La Grange College, [i] 

4 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 297 

Lebanon. 

Le Clede Library Association, [i] 

Liberty. 

William Jewell College, [ii] 

Monroe City. 

Monroe Institute, [i] 

Palmyra. 

Saint PauPs' College, [i] 

Parkville. 

Park College, [i] 
Rolla. 

Missouri School of Mines and Metallurgy (Department of Uni- 
versity of Missouri at Columbia), [i] 

Phelps County Agricultural, Mechanical, and Horticultural So- 
ciety, [i] 
Saint Joseph. 

CoUege of Physicians and Surgeons, [i] 

Saint Joseph's Commercial College, [i] 

Saint Louis. 

College for Medical Practitioners, [i] 

Law Library Association of Saint Louis, [i] 

Missouri Botanical Gardens, [ii] 

Missouri Historical Society, [i] 

Missouri Medical College, [i] 

Observatory of Washington University (see Washington Uni- 
versity). 

Odd Fellows' Library, [i] 

Oldberg-Wall Laboratory, [i] 

Polytechnic School (see Washington University). 

Saint Louis Academy of Sciences, [iii] 

Saint Louis Engineer Club, [i] 

Saint Louis Mercantile Library, [iii] 

Saint Louis Public School Library, [iii] 

Saint Louis University, [iii] 

Saint Louis Young Men's Christian Associatioa. [i] 

Union Literary Association, [i] 

Washington University, [iii] 
Observatory, [i] 
Polytechnic School, [i] 
Sedalia. 

Sedalia Natural History Society, [i] 

Springfield. 

Drury College, [iii] 
Stanberry. 

Northwestern Normal School, [i] 



298 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Warrensburg. 

Public School Library, [i] 
State Normal School, [ii] 

Warrenton. 

Central Wesleyan College, [i] 

MONTANA. 

Helena. 

Historical Society of Montana. [11] 
Montana Library, [i] 

NEBRASKA. 

Crete. 

Crete Public Library. [1] 
Doane College, [ii] 

Exeter. 

Unitarian Public Library Association, [i] 

Lincoln 

Lincoln Public Library. [1] 
School Library, [i] 
State Library of Nebraska, [iil] 
University of Nebraska (State), [i] 

Nebraska City. 

Otoe County Horticultural Society, [i] 

Neligh. 

Gates College. [1] 

Omaha. 

Creighton College, [i] 

Nebraska Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. [1] 

Peru. 

State Normal School. [11] 

Wahoo. 

Luther Academy. [1] 

NEVADA. 

Carson City. 

State Library. [1] 

NEW HAMPSHmE. 

Claremont. 

Fiske Free Library. [1] 

Concord. 

New Hampshire Asylum for the Insane, [i] 
New Hampshire Board of Agriculture, [i] 



WST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 299 

Concord — Continued. 

New Hampshire Historical Socie%^. [iii] 

New Hampshire State Library, [iii] 

Saint Paul's School, [i] 

State Board of Health, [i] 

State Superintendent of Public Instruction, [ij 

East Rindge. 

East Eindge Library, [i] 

Exeter. 

Exeter Natural History Society, [i] 

Great Falls. 

Great FaUs Manufacturers' and Village Library, [i] 

Hanover. 

Dartmouth College, [iii] 

Shattuck Observatory, [i] 
New Hampshire College of Agriculture, [ii] 

Hopkinton. 

Hopkinton Public Library Association, [i] 

Eeene. 

Keene Public Library. [1] 

Littleton. 

Littleton Graded School, [i] 

Manchester. 

Manchester City Library, [iii] 

Marlborough. 

Frost Free Public Library, [i] 

Meriden. 

Kimball Union Academy, [i] 
Nashua. 

Nashua Historical Society, [i] 

In New Hampton. 

New Hampton Literary Institation. (IJ 

Peterborough. 

Public Library. [1] 

Portsmouth. 

Portsmouth Athenaeum, [iii] 
Portsmouth Free Public Library, [ii] 

Shaker Village. 

Society of Shakers, [i] 

Somersworth. 

Great Falls Manufacturers' and Village Library (see Great Falls). 



300 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

20:W JERSEY. 
Atco. 

Library and ISTatoral Science Association, [i] 

Beverly. 

Trinity Hall School for Young Ladies, [i] 
Bloomfield. 

Xorth Jersey Botanical Olub. [i] 
Burlington. 

Burlington Library, [iii] 
Hoboken. 

Stevens Institute of Technology, (iii] 
Hopewell. 

HopeweU Seminary, [i] 
Madison. 

Drew Theological Seminary, [i] 
Matawan. 

Matawan Literary Society, [i] 
Mont Clair. 

Mont Clair Public High School, [i] 

North Jersey Botanical Club (see Bloomfield). 

Morristown. 

Morristown Library and Lyceum, [ii] 

Mount Holly. 

Burlington County Lyceum of History and Natural Science, [i] 
Newark. 

Newark Library Association, [iii] 

New Jersey Historical Society, [iii] 
New Brunswick. 

Gardner A. Sage Library of Theological Semiuary. [iij 

Geological Survey of New Jersey, [ij 

Rutgers College, [iii] 
Eutgers Grammar School, [i] 
Rutgers Scientific School, [i] 

Newton. 

Newton Library Association (Dennis Library), [ii] 

Ocean Grove. 

Ocean Grove Lyceum Library, [i] 

Paterson. 

Passaic County Historical Society, [i] 
Paterson Board of Trade, [i] 

Pennington. 

Pennington Seminary and Female CoUegiato Institute, jij 



1 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 301 

Plainfield. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Princeton. 

College of ISTew Jersey, [iii] 
E. M. Museum of Geology and Archseology of the College of 

New Jersey, [ii] 
Halsted Observatory, [i] 
John C. Green School of Science, [i] 
Observatory of Instruction, [i] 
Theological Seminary of the Presbyterian Church, [iii] 

Rahway. 

Kahway Library Association, [ii] 

Trenton. 

iSTew Jersey State Ijunatic Asylum, [i] 

New Jersey State Normal and Model Schools, [ii] 

State Library of New Jersey, [iii] 

Trenton Natural History Society, [i] 

Vineland. 

Vineland Historical and Antiquarian Society, [i] 

Woodbridge. 

Barron Library, [i] 

NEW MEXICO. 
Santa F6. 

Bureau of Immigration, [i] 
Historical Society of New Mexico, [i] 
Territorial Library, [i] 
J, University of New Mexico, [ii] 

NEW YORK. 
Albany. 

Albany College of Pharmacy, [i] 

Albany County Penitentiary, [i] 

Albany Institute, [i] 

Albany Law School, [i] 

Albany Medical College, [i] 

Dudley Observatory, [i] 

New York State Agricultural Society, [iii] 

New York State Library, [iii] 

New York State Museum of Natural History, [iii] 

New York State Normal School, [iii] 

Public School Library (formerly High School Library), [i] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 
Albion. 

Albion Union School, [i] 

Hart's Library and Reading Room, [i] 



302 LIST OF INSTITUTIONIH IN UNITED (STATES. 

Alfred Centre. 

Alfred University, [ii] 
Observatory, [i] 

Allegany. 

Saint Bonaventuie's CoUege and Seminary, [i] 
Annandale. 

Saint Stephen's College, [ii] 
Auburn. 

Cayuga County Historical Society, fi] 

Seymour Library Association, [ii] 

State Asylum for Insane Criminals, [ij 

Theological Seminary of Auburn, [ii] 

Aurora. 

Wells' College for Young Ladies, [i] 
Bath. 

Bath Library Association, [ii] 

Blackwell's Island (near Kew York City). 

iSTew York City Lunatic Asylum, [i] 
Boonville. 

Boonville Union School and Academy, [i] 
Brockport. 

Brockport Natural History Club, [i] 

State Normal School, [i] 

Brooklyn. 

Adelphi Academy, [i] 

Brooklyn Entomological Society, [i] 

Brooklyn Institute (Youths' Free Library), [iii] 

Brooklyn Library, [iii] 

Club of Christian Endeavor, [i] 

Department of Health, [i] 

Long Island Historical Society, [iii] 

Packer Collegiate Institute, [ii] 
Buffalo. 

Buffalo Historical Society, [i] 

Buffalo Practical School, [i] 

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, [iii] 

Buffalo Turn Verein. [i] 

Canisius College, [ii] 

Grosvenor Library, [iii] 

Le Conteulx Saint Mary's Institution for Deaf Mutes. [iJ 

Young Men's Association and Library, [iii] 

Young Men's Christian Association. * [i] 
Qanandaigua. 

Brigham Hall Hospital, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 303 

Canton. 

Saint Lawrence University (Herring Library), [iij 

Clifton Springs. 

Foster School, [i] 

Clinton. 

Hamilton College, [iii] 
Litchfield Observatory, [i] 

Community. 

Oneida Community (Limited), [i] 

Coming. 

Corning Library, [ii] 

Cortland. 

State Normal School. [11] 

Elmira. 

Elmira Female College, [i] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [ii] 

Fairfield. 

Fairfield Seminary. [1] 

Fayetteville. 

Educational Council of Onondaga County. [1] 
Flushing. 

Sanford Hall Asylum for Insane and Nervous Patients, [i] 

Fordham. 

Saint John's College (see Tremont). 

Fort Edward. 

Fort Edward Collegiate Listitute. [1] 

Fort Hamilton. 

Post Library, U. S. A. [i] 

Fredonia. 

State Normal and Training School, [i] 

Geneva. 

Hobart College, [iii] 

New York Agricultural Experiment Station, [i] 

Gloversville. 

Levi Parsons Library, [i] 

Goshen. ' 

Goshen Scientific Association, [i] 
Governor's Island (New York Harbor). 

Free Military Service Institution (see New York City). 

Hamilton. 

Madison University, [iii] 
Hastings-on-Hudson. 

Henry Draper Observatory (see New York City), 



304 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Hornellsville. 

Home 11 Free Academy, [i] 
Hornell Library Association, [ii] 

Ilion. 

Ilion Public Library. [1] 

Ithaca. 

Cornell University, [iii] 
Jamestown. 

Jamestown Union School and Collegiate Institute, [i] 

Le Roy. 

Ingham University, [i] 

Lima. 

Genesee Wesleyan Seminary (formerly Genesee College), [iii] 
Lisle. 

Ljsle Union School and Academy, [i] 

Little Valley. 

Little Valley Union Free School, [i] 

Marathon. 

Marathon Academy, [i] 

Mexico. 

Mexico Academy, [i] 

Moriah. 

Sherman Academy. [1] 

Mountain villa. 

Houghton Farm AgriculturaJ Library, [i] 

Mount Lebanon. 

Society of Shakers, [i] 

New Brighton. 

Natural Science Association of Staten Island, [i] 

Newburgh. 

Newburgh Free Library, [iii] 

New York City. 

Agassiz Association (Manhattan Chapter), [i] 

American Bible Society, [i] 

American Chemical Society, [i] 

American Geographical Society, [iii] 

American Institute of the City of New York, [iii] 

American Institute of Mining Engineers, [i] 

American Museum of Natural History, [iii] 

American Numismatic and Archicological Society, [i] 

American Society of Civil Engineers, [i] 

Astor Library, [iii] 

Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, fiii] 






LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 305 

New York City — Continued. 

Board of Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church, [i] 

Bureau of Vital Statistics, [ij 

Central Park Menagerie, [ii] 

Century Club, [i] 

Chamber of Commerce, [i] 

College of the City of New York, [iii] 

College of Pharmacy of the City of New York, fii] 

College of St. Francis Xavier. [iii] 

Columbia College, [iiij 
School of Mines of Columbia College, [iij 

Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. [iiiJ 

Department of Public Charities and Correction. [i| 

Free Circulating Library of the Socialistic Labor Party, [i] 

Fulton Market Fishmongers Association, [i] 

General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen (see New York 
Apprentices Library). 

General Theological Seminary of the Protestant Episcopal Church. 
[iii] 

Harlem Library, [i] 

Health Department of the City of New York, [i] 

Henry Draper Observatory (Mrs. Henry Draper, 271 Madison 
Avenue, Station L). [i] 

House of Eefuge (Randall's Island), [i] 

Inventor's Institute (Cooper Union), [i] 

Lenox Library, [iii] 

Maimonides Library I. O. B. B. [iii] 

Maritime Association of the Port of New York (Maritime Ex- 
change), [i] 

Medico-Legal Society of New York, [i] 

Mercantile Library Association, [iii] 

Metropolitan Museum of Art (Central Park), [iii] 

Military Service Institution of the United States (New York 
Harbor), [i] 

National Board of Fire Underwriters. [1] 

New York Academy of Medicine, [ii] 

New York Academy of Sciences, [iii] 

New York Apprentices Library, [iii] 

New York Board of Education, [i] 

New York City Lunatic Asylum (Blackwell's Island), [i] 

New York Free Circulating Library, [i] 

New York Genealogical and Biographical Society, [i] 

New York Historical Society, [iii] 

New York Hospital, [i] 

New York Hungarian Society. [iJ 

New York Juvenile Asylum, [i] 

H. Mis. 15 liO 



306 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

New York City — Ooutinued. 

New York Law Institute, [i] 

New York Meteorological Observatory (Central Park), [ij 

New York Microscopical Society, [i] I 

New Y'^ork Produce Exchange, [i] 

New York Society Library, [iii] 

New York Trade Schools, [i] 

Public School Teachers Association, [i] 

Rutger's Female College, [i] 

School of Mines (see Columbia College). 

Union Theological Seminary, [iii] 

United States Naval Lyceum, [i] 

University of the City of New York, [iii] 

Xavier Union of the City of New York, [i] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [iii] 

North Brookfield. 

North Brooklield Union Free School, [i] 

North Chili. 

Chili Seminary, [i] 

Nunda. 

Nunda Union School, [i] 

Onondaga. 

Onondaga Academy, [i] 

Oswego. 

Oswego City Library, [ii] 

Oswego State Normal and Training SchooL [ij 

Oxford. 

Oxford Academy, [i] 

Penn Yan. 

Penn Yan Academy, [i] 

Phelps. 

Red House Observatory, [i] 
Union and Classical School, [i] 

Pike. 

Pike Seminary, [i] 

Pine Plains. 

Seymour Smith Academy. [1] 

Port Chester. 

Library and Reading Room, [i] 

Poughkeepsie. 

Hudson River State Hospital, [i] 

Poughkeepsie City Library, [ii] 

Vassar Brothers Institute, [i] 

Vassar College, [iii] | 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 307 

Rochester. 

Athenaeum and Mechanics Association (see Reynolds Library). 

Court of Appeals, [i] 

Public School Central Library, [i] 

Eeynolds Library, [iii] 

Eochester Society of Natural Sciences, [i] 

Eochester Theological Seminary, [iii] 

University of Eochester. [iii] 

Warner Observatory, [i] 

Western New York Institution for Deaf-Mates, [ij 

Rome. 

Eome Academy. [iJ 

Round Lake. 

Chatauqua Library (Alumni Hall), [i] 

Schenectady, 

Union College, [iii) 

Schoharie. 

Schoharie Academy and Union Sohool. [i] 

Sing Sing. 

Dr. Parson's Private Home for Nervous Invalids, [i] 
Sing Sing Prison Library, [i] 

Skaneateles. 

Skaneateles Library Asaociation. [i] 
Springville. 

Springville Public Library, [i] 

Springville Scientific Association, [i] 

Suspension Bridge. 

De Yeaux College, [iii] 

Niagara University (formerly Seminary of Our Lady of Angels), 

[i] 
Syracuse. 

Catholic Mutual Benefit Association, [i] 

Central Library, [iii] 

Onondaga Historical Association. [1] 

Syracuse University, [iii] 

Zeta Psi Society (Gamma Chapter), [i] 

Tremont (formerly Fordham). 

Saint John's College, [iii] 

Troy. 

Eensselaer Polytechnic Institute, [ii] 

Eensselaer Society of Civil Engineers (formerly Pi Eta Scientific 

Society), [i] 
Troy Female Seminary, [iii] 
Troy Young Men's Association, [iii] 
Wniiam Proudfit Observatory, [i] 



308 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Utica. 

Oneida Historical Society, [i] 

State Lunatic Asylum, [iii] 

Young Men's Christian Association, [ij 

West Chester. 

Sacred Heart Academy, [i] 

West Point. 

United States Military Academy, [iii] 
Observatory, [i] 

White Plains. 

West Chester County Historical Society, [i] 

Whitestone. 

Engineer School of Application of United States Army, [iii] 

Willard. 

Willard Asylum for the Insane, [i] 
Yonkers. 

Yonkers Free Beading Room, [i] , 

Yonkers Public Library, [i] 

NORTH CAROI.INA. 
Chapel HiU. 

University of North Carolina, [iii] 

Davidson College. 

Davidson College, [iii] 

Jonesborongh. 

High School, [i] 

Lenoir. 

Davenport Female College, [ii] * ^ 

Pioneer Library of North Carolina, [i] | 

Mocksville. 

Mocksville Male Academy, [i] 

Moravian Falls. 

Moravian Falls Academy, [i] 

OUn. 

Olin Male Academy, [i] 

Ealeigh. 

North Carolina Agricultural Experiment Station, [i] 
North Carolina Insane Asylum, [i] 

North Carolina Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, [ij 
North Carolina State Library, [iii] 

Salisbury. 

Salisbuiy Graded School, [i] 
Sparta. 

Sparta Institute (Alleghauiau Literary Society), [i] 



' LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 309 

Taylorsville. 

Taylorsville Academy, [i] 

TrapHiU. 

Trap Hill Institute and Library, [i] 

Trinity College. 

Trinity College, [iii] 

Wake Forest 

Wake Forest OoUege. [ii] 

Warrenton. 

Warrenton Female Collegiate Institute, [ii] 

Weaverville. 

Weaverville College, [i] 
Wilmington. 

Historical and Scientific Society, [i] 

State Board of Health, [ij 

OHIO. 

Akron. 

Akron Scientific Club, [i] 

Buchtel College, [i] 
Albany. 

Wells Library (see Lee). 
Ashland. 

Ashland College Library, [i] 
Ashtabula. 

Ashtabula Social Library Association, [i] 
Athens. 

Ohio University, [iii] 
Austinburg. 

Grand River Institute, [i] 
Barnesville. 

Barnesville Public and School Library, [i] 
Bellaire. 

Public School Library, [i] 
Bellefontaine. 

Bellefontaine Public School, [i] 
Cadiz. 

Public Library, [i] 
CaldwelL 
I Caldwell High School Library, [i] 

Canal Dover. 

Dover Public School Library and Museum, [i] 
Carthage. 

Longview Asylum for the Insane, [i] 



310 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Celina. 

Celina Library Association, [i] 
CincinnatL 

Cincinnati Hospital. 

Cincinnati Museum Association, [i] 

Cincinnati Society of Natural History, [iiij 

Cincinnati University, fiii] 
Observatory, [i] 

Cincinnati Wesleyan College, [ii] 

Cuvier Club of Cincinnati, [i] 

Hebrew Union College, [i] 

Historical and Philosophical Society of Ohio, [iii] 

Hughes High School, [i] 

Lane Theological Seminary, [iii] 

Medical College of Ohio, [i] 

Mussey Medical and Scientific Library (see Public Library of Cin- 
cinnati). 

Public Library of Cincinnati, [iii] 

Woodward High School, [i] 

Young Men's Mercantile Library Association, [iii] 

Zoological Society of Cincinnati, [i] 

Cleveland. 

Board of Health, [i] 

Case Library (formerly Cleveland Library Association), [iii] 
Case School of Applied Sciences, [ii] 
Charity Hospital, [i] 

Cleveland Library Association (see Case Library). 
Cleveland Medical College (Medical Department Western Eeserve 
University), [i] 

Cleveland Public library, [iii] 

Western Eeserve and Northern Ohio Historical Society, [i] 

Western Reserve University, [iii] 
College Hill. 

Belmont College (formerly Farmer's College), [iii] 
Columbus. 

Bureau of Statistics of Labor, [i] 

Columbus Art School and Association, [i] 

Columbus Asylum for the Insane, [i] 

Ohio Meteorological Bureau, [i] 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture, [iii] 

Ohio State Library, [iii] 

Ohio State University, [ii] 

Public Library and Heading Eoom of the city of Columbus, [ii] 

Public School Library, [i; 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 311 

Dayton. 

Public Library, [iii] 

Delaware. 

Ohio Wesleyan University (Sturges Library), [iiij 

Elyria. 

Elyria Library, [i] 

Fayette. 

Fayette I«rormal, Music, aud Business College, [i] 

Flushing. 

Flushing Public Library, [i] 

Fremont. 

Birchard Library, [ii] 

Gambler. 

Kenyon College. [iiiJ 
Garrettsville. 

Garrettsville Union Schools, [ij 

Olendale. 

Glendale Female College, [i] 

Granville. 

Denison University, [iii] 

Hamilton. 

High School Library, [i] 

Hillsborough. 

Hillsborough Female College. [1] 
Public Library, [i] 

Hiram. 

Hiram College, [ii] 

Hopedale. 

Hopedale Normal College, [i] 

Lebanon. 

Mechanics' Institute, [ii] 
National Normal University, [i] 

Lee. 

Wells Library, [i] 
Mansfield. 

Mansfield Lyceum Library, [i] 

Marietta. 

Marietta College, [iii] 
Martin's Ferry. 

Martin's Ferry Library Association, fi] 
Medina. 

Medina Public School Library, [i] 



312 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Morristown. 

Public School Library, [i] 

Mount Lookout. 

Observatory (see Cincinnati). 

Mount Union. 

Mount Union College, [ij 

National Military Home. 

iSTational Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, [i] 

Newark. 

Licking County Pioneer, Historical, and Antiquarian Society, [i] 
Public Library of Young Men's Christian Association. [1] 

New Athens. 

Franklin College, [i] 
New Concord. 

Muskingum College, [i] 
Norwalk. 

Library and Eeading Eoom Association. [iJ 
Oberlin. 

Oberlin College, [iii] 
Oxford. 

Miami University, [iii] 

Painesville. 

Lake Erie Female Seminary, [ii] 

Fataskala. 

Pataskala Public School Library, [i] 

Pleasant Ridge. 

Pleasant Eidge Library, [i] 
Poland. 

Everett Literary Society of Poland Union Seminary, (iJ 
Portsmouth. 

Portsmouth Public Library, [i] 
Richmond. 

Kichmond College, [i] 

Ripley. 

Women's Christian Temperance Union, [i] 

Saint Clairsville. 

Public School Library, fi] 

Savannah. 

Savannah Academy and Scientific Association, [i] 

Scio. 

Scio College, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 313 

Shreve. 

Shreve High School Literary Society, [i] 
Sidney. 

Clinton Club Library, [i] 
Springfield. 

Public Library, [iii] 

Springfield Seminary, [ij 

Wittenberg College, [iii] 
Philosophian Society. [1] 

Steubenville. 

Female Seminary, [i] 

Odd Fellows' Library, [i] 

Steubenville Public School Library, [i] 
Stockton. 

Stockton Library, [i] 
Tiffin. 

Heidelberg College, [iii] 

Heidelberg Theological Seminary, [i] 
Toledo. 

Public Library of Toledo, [iii] 
Urbana. 

Central Ohio Scientific Association, [i] 

Urbana University, [ii] 

Wellsville. 

Cleveland and Pittsburgh Eailroad Reading Association. [iJ 
Westerville. 

Otterbein University, [iii] • 

Wilberforce. 

Wilberforce University. [1] 
Wooster. 

University of Wooster. [iii] 
Yellow Springs. 

Antioch College, [iii] 

OREGOK. 

East Portland. 

Oregon Hospital for the Lisane. [iJ 
Engene City. 

University of Oregon, [iii] 
Forest Grove. 

Tualatin Academy and Pacific University, [iii] 
Philomath. 

Philomath College, [i] 



314 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Portland. 

Bishop Scott Grammar and Divinity School, [ii] 
Library Association of Portland, [iii] 

Salem. 

Oregon State Library, [iii] 

PBN]S"STIiTANIA. 

Allegheny. 

Allegheny Observatory, [i] 

Bayard Taylor Literary Association, [ij 

Public School Library, [i] 

Western Pennsylvania Theological Seminary, [iii] 

Western State Penitentiary, [i] 

Western University of Pennsylvania, [ii] 

Annville. 

Lebanon Yalley College, [i] 
Beatty's Station. 

Saint Vincent's Abbey and College, [i] 
Beaver. 

Beaver College and Musical Institute, [i] 
Beaver Falls, 

Geneva College, [i ] 
Bethlehem. 

Lehigh University (see South Bethlehem). 

Moravian College and Theological Seminary, [i] 

Moravian Seminary for Young Ladies, [i] 
Blairsvillef 

Blairsville Ladies' Seminary, [i] 
Blosshurg. 

Graded Public High School, [i] 
BrumfieldviUe. 

Amity Library Association, [i] 
Bryn-Mawr. 

Bryn-Mawr College, [iij 
Butler. 

Witherspoon Institute, [i] 
California. 

Southwestern State Normal School, [i] 
Carlisle. 

Dickinson College, [iii] 
Clarion. 

Carrier Seminary of Western Pennsylvania, fi] 
Clearfield. 

Ijeonard Literary Association and Library, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. ol5 

CoUegeville. 

Ursinus College, [i] 

Concordville. 

Concord Select School (see Ward). 

Danville. 

State Hospital for the Insane, [i] 

Dixmont. 

Western Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane, [i] 

Easton. 

American Institute of Mining Engineers. (Eemoved to New 
York City.) 

Easton Library, [ii] 

Lafayette College, [iii] 
Edinborough. 

State Normal School, [ij 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Elizabethville. 

Washington Literary Society, [i] 
Erie. 

Erie Natural History Society, [i] 

Young Men's Christian Association. [1] 

Frankford. 

Agassiz Association, Frankford Chapter, [ij 

Asylum for the Relief of Persons Deprived of their Reason (Phil- 
adelphia), [i] 
Franklin. 

Franklin High School, [i] 

Germantown. 

Friend^'s Free Library and Reading Room, [ii] 
Germantown Library Association, [ii] 
Workingmen's Club of Germantown. [i] 

Gettysburg. 

Pennsylvania College, [iii] 

Theological Seminary of the General Synod of the Evangelical 
Lutheran Church, [iii] 

Greensburg. 

Underwood Library, [i] 

Greenville. 

Theil College of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, [i] 

Harrisburg. 

Dauphin County Historical Society, [i] 
Geological Survey (see Philadelphia.) 
Harrisburg Public School Library Association, |i] 
Pennsylvania State Library, [iii J 
State Lunatic Hospital, [i] 



316 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Hatborough. 

Union Library. [1] 

Haverford. 

Haverford College, [ill] 
Observatory, [i] 

Hereford. 

Hereford Literary Society, [i] 

Honesdale. 

Honesdale School Library, [ii] 

Huntingdon. 

Huntingdon Public School Library, [i] 
Normal College, [i] 

Jefferson. 

Monongahela College, [i] 

Kirk's Mills. 

Fulton Farmers' Club, [i] 

Kutztown. 

Keystone State Normal School, [i] 

Lancaster. 

Franklin and Marshall College, [iii 

Goethean Literary Society, [i) 
Linnean Scientific and Historical Society, [i] 

Lewisbnrg. 

University at Lewisbnrg. [iii] 

Lincoln University. 

Lincoln University (formerly at Oxford), [iii] 
Litiz. 

Linden Hall Seminary, [i] 

Lock Haven. 

Central Normal School, [i] 

Mansfield. 

State Normal School, [ii] 

Marietta. 

Marietta Lyceum of Natural History, [i] 

Meadville. 

Allegheny College, [iii] 

Library, Art and Historical Association (formerly City or Public 

Library), [ii] 
Meadville Theological School, [iii] 
Public High School of the City of Meadville. [i] 

Mechanicsburg. 

Mechanicsburg Library and Literary Society, [i] 

Media. 

Delaware County Institute of Science, [iii] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 317 

Mercersburg. 

Washington Irving' Literary Society of Mercersburg College, j ij 

Millersville. 

State Normal School of Second District, [i] 

Monongahela City. 

Hazzard Institute Library, [i] 

Muncy. 

Miincy Normal School, [i] 

Natrona. 

Natrona Library, [i] 

New Brighton. 

Young Men's Library Association, [i] 
New Lebanon. 

McElwain Institute, [i] 

New Wilmington. 

Westminster College, [iii] 
Norristown. 

Norristowu High School, [i] 

Hospital for the Insane, [i] 

Orwell. 

Orwell Library Association, [i] ^ 

Overbrook. 

Theological Seminary of Saint Charles Borromeo. [iii] 
Oxford. 

Lincoln University (see Lincoln University). 

Oxford Library, [i] 

Philadelphia. 

Academy of Natural Sciences, [iii] 

American Baptist Publication Society, [iii] 

American Entomological Society, [i] 

American Philosophical Society, [iii] 

Anglers' Association of Eastern Pennsylvania, [i] 

Apprentices' Library Company, [iii] 

Athenaeum of Philadelphia, [iii] 

Board of Education of the Presbyterian Church, [i] 

Board of Health of the City and Port of Philadelphia, [i] 

Board of Public Education, [i] 

Central High School, [ii] 

College of Physicians of Philadelphia, [i] 

Eastern State Penitentiary, [i] 

Engineers' Club of Philadelphia, [i] 

Franklin Institute, [iii] 

Friends' Central School, [i] 

Friends' Library of Philadelphia. 



318 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Philadelphia — Continued. 

German Society, [iii] 

Girard College for Orphans, [iii] 

Girls' Grammar School for the Second School Section, [i] 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania, [iii] 

Home for F. and A. Masons (Masonic Temple), [ii] 

La Salle College, [i] 

Library Association of Friends of Philadelphia, [iii] 

Library Comi)any of Philadelphia, [iii] 

Mercantile Library Company of Philadelphia, [iii] 

Naval Hospital, [i] 

Nebinger Boys' Grammar School, [i] 

Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Philadelphia, [i] 

Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, [i] 

Pennsylvania Board of Public Charities, [i] 

Pennsylvania Hospital, [iii] 

Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane, [i] 

Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, [i] 

Pennsylvania Institution for the Instruction of the Blind, [i] 

Philadelphia Association of Manufacturers of Textile Fabrics, [i] 

Philadelphia Board of Trade, [i] 

Philadelphia Club, [i] 

Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, [iii] 

Philadelphia Drug Exchange, [i] 

Philadelphia Maritime Exchange, [i] 

Philadelphia School of Design for Women, [i] 

Philadelphia Social Science Association, [i] 

Presbyterian Board of Publication, [iii] 

Presbyterian Historical Society, [i] 

Preston Eetreat. [i] 

St. Clement's Workingmen's Club and Institute, [i] 

Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania (removed from Har- 

risburg). [i] 

Southwark Library, [iiij | j 

Teachers' Institute of the City and County of Philadelphia, [i] 
Union League Club, [i] 
University of Pennsylvania, [iii] 
Wagner Free Institute of Science, [i] 
West Philadelphia Medical Book Club, [i] ^ 

Young Men's Christian Association, [ii] 
Zoological Society of Philadelphia, [i] | V 

Pittsburgh. 

German Library Association (Deutscher Leseverein). [i] ^i 

Mercantile Library (see Pittsburg Library Association). 
Pennsylvania Female College, [ii] 
Pittsburgh College of Pharmacy, [i] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 319 

Pittsburgh — Contiuued. 

Pittsburgh Female College, [iij 
Pittsburgh Library Association, [iii] 

Reading. 

Eeading Library, [iii] 

Eeading Society of Natural Sciences, [i] 

Saint Paul's Church Library, [i] 

Spencer F. Baird Naturalists' Association, [i] 
Bimersburg. 

Clarion Collegiate Institute, [i] 
^crauton. 

Scranton High School, [i] 

Young Men's Christian Association, fil 

Sewickley. 

Sewickley Academy, [i] 
Sewickley Public Library. [1] 

Sheakleyrille. 

Sheakley ville Academy, [i] 

South Bethlehem. 

Lehigh University, [iii] 
Sayre Observatory, [i] 

South Hermitage. 

Pequea Presbyterian Church Public Library, [i] . 

State College. 

Pennsylvania State College, fii] 

Swarthmore. 

Swarthmore College Library, [iii] 

Tarentum. 

Odd Fellows' Library, [i] 
Titus ville. 

Titusville Library Association, [i] 
Towanda. 

Scientific Society of Susquehanna Institute, [i] 
Troy; 

Troy Graded and High School' Library, [i] 
Turtle Creek. 

Western Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, [i] 
Wallingford. 

Wallingford Natural History Society, [i] 
Ward. 

Ward Academy (formerly Concord Select School). [1] 
Warren. 

Warren Public Library, [i] 



320 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Washington. 

Wasliington and Jefferson College, [iii] 

Waynesburg. 

Wayuesburg College, [i] 

Wellsborongh. 

Academic Literary Society, [i] 

West Chester. 

State Normal School, [iii] 

Wilkes-Barre. 

Wyoming Historical and Geological Society, [iii] 

York. 

United Library Association of York, [i] 

RHODE ISIiAND. 

Ashaway. 

Ashaway Free Library and Beading Eoom Association, [i] 

Newport. 

Naval Institute, [ii] 

Newport Natural History Society, [i] 

Redwood Library and Athenaeum, [iii] 

Pascoag. 

Pascoag Public Library, [i] 

Providence. 

Brown University, [iii] 
Butler Hospital for the Insane, [i] 
Friends' Boarding School, [ii] 
Providence Athenseum. [iii] 
Providence Public Library, [ii] 
Ehode Island Historical Society, [iii] 

Ehode Island Society for the Encouragement of Domestic In- 
dustry, [i] 
Seagrove Observatory, [i] 
State Board of Education, [i] 
State Board of Health, [i] 
State Normal School, [ii] 

Westerly. 

Pawcatuck Library, [i] 

Woonsocket. 

Harris Institute Library, [ii] 

SOUTH CAROXilNA. 

Aiken. 

Aiken Library and Palmetto Club, [ij 

Cedar Spring. 

South Carolina Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, [i] 



LIST OP INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 321 

Charleston. 

Charleston Library Society, [iii] 
College of Charleston, [iii] 

Elliot Society of Science and Art (formerly Elliot Society of Nat- 
ural History), [i] 
Medical College of the State of South Carolina, [iiij 
South Carolina Historical Society, [i] 

Chester. 

Braiuerd Institute, [i] 

Columbia. 

State Board of Education, [i] 

State Library, [iii] 

Theological Seminary (Presbyterian), [i] 

Due West. 

Erskine College, [ii] 
Greenville. 

Furmau University, [iii] 

Southern Baptist Theological Seminary (removed to Louisville, 
Ky.). 
Newberry. 

Newberry College, [i] 

Orangeburg. 

Claflin University and College of Agriculture, [ij 

TENNESSEE. 
Sell's Depot. 

Bell's Public Library, [i] 
Bloomington. 

Blooraington College, [i] 
Blountville. 

New Bethel Institute, [i] 
Boring. 

Sunrise Institute, [i] 
Bristol. 

Female College. [iJ 
Chattanooga. 

Chattanooga Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 
Clarksville. 

Southwestern Presbyterian University (successor to Stuart Col- 
lege), [i] 

Cog Hill. 

Cane Creek Collegiate Institute, [i] 

H. Mis. 15 2i 



322 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Columbia. 

Columbia Athenaeum, [ii] 

Female Institute, [i] 
Gallatin. 

Howard Female College, [i] 

Greeneville. 

Greeneville and Tusculum College (see Tusculum). 

Hiwassee College. 

Hiwassee College, [ii] 
Jackson. 

Southwestern Baptist University, [ii] 1 

Knoxville. f 

Bast Tennessee University and Agricultural College (see Uni- 
versity of Tennessee). | 
Public Library of Knoxville. [i] ! 
Tennessee School for the Deaf and Dumb, [i] j 
University of Tennessee (formerly East Tennessee University), 
[iii] 

Lawson. 

Camp-ground Institute, [i] 

Lebanon. 

Cumberland University, [iii] 

Lewisburg. 

Lewisburg Institute, [i] 

Maryville. 

Maryville College and Theological Seminary, [iii] 

McKenzie. 

McTyeire Institute (formerly McKenzie College), [i] 

McMinnville. 

McMinnville Library Association, [i] 

Memphis. 

Christian Brothers' College, [ii] 
Odd Fellows' Public Library, [i] 
Nashville. 

Central Tennessee College [i] 
Meharry Medical College, [i] 
Montgomery Bell Academy, [i] 
Nashville Medical College (medical department of University of 

Tennessee), [i] 
Tennessee Historical Society, [i] 
Tennessee School for the Blind, [ii] 
Tennessee State Library, [iii] 
University of Nashville, [iii] 
Vanderbilt University, [iii] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 323 

Piney Flats. 

"Wayside Academy, [i] 

FnlaskL 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Rugby. 

Hughes' Free Public Library, [ii] 

Rutledge. 

Madison Academy, [i] 

Sewanee. 

University of the South, [iii] 

Tuscnlum. 

Greeneville and Tusculum College, [ii] 
Winchester. 

Mary Sharpe College, [i] 

TEXAS. 
Austin. 

State Lunatic Asylum, [i] 

Texas Deaf and Dumb Asylum, [ij 

Texas State Library, [iii] 

University of Texas, [iii] 
Bonham. 

Bonham Library, [i] 

Brackettville. 

Post Library, Fort Clark. [1] 

Brazoria. 

Brazoria Academy, [i] 

Campbell. 

Campbell High School, [i] 
Carthage. 

Carthage High School, [i] 
Center. 

Center High School, [i] 
College Station. 

State Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, [ii j 
Comfort. 

Comfort Agricultural Association, [i] 
Commerce. 

Commerce College, [i] 
Dallas. 

Dallas Literary and Library Association, [i] 
Fort Clark. 

Military Post Library (see Brackettville). 



324 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Galveston. 

Free Library, [i] 

Galveston Cotton Exchange, [i] 

Protestant Orphan Asylum, [i] ' 

Georgetown. ' j 

Southwestern University, [i] 

Gilmer. 

Loue Star Academy, [ij 

Greenville. 

Greenville Academy, [i] 

Henderson. 

Henderson Male and Female College, [i] 

Honey Grove. 

McKenzie Library of the Honey Grove High School. [iJ 

Houston. 

Texas State Geological and Scientific Association, [i] 

Independence. 

Baylor University, [i] 

Kilgore. 

Alexander Institute, [i] 

Kingston. 

Kingston Acjidemy. [i] 

Longview. 

Lougview High School, [i] 

Marshall. 

Bishop Baptist College, [i] 
Masonic Institute, [i] 
Wiley University, [i] 

Mineola. 

Mineola High School, [i] 

Mount Calm. 

Mount Calm Lyceum, [i] 

Omen. 

Summer Hill College, [i] 

Palestine. 

Academy of Science of Texas, [i] 

Rhea's Mill. 

Rhea's Mill Academy, [i] 

Sherman. 

Austin College, [i] 

Tehuacana. 

Trinity University (Tehuacaua College), [ij 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 325 

Tyler. 

East Texas College, [i] 
Waco. 

Literary and Scientific Association, fi] 

Waco University, [i] 

UTAH. 

Salt L:.:ie City. 

Deseret Museum, [i] 

Masonic Library, [i] 

Salt Lake Collegiate Institute, [i] 

Salt Lake Mining Institute, [i] 

Utah Territorial Library, [iii] 

University of Deseret. f iii] 

VERMONT. 

Barnet. 

Ladies' Library, [i] 
Brattleborough. 

Vermont Asylum for the Insane, [i] 
Burlington. 

Fletcher Free Library, [iii] 

Public School Department, [i] 

University of Vermont, fiii] 

Vermont Episcopal Institute, [i] 
Castleton. 

Castleton State Normal School, fiii] 
Lunenburgh. 

Cutting's Public Library and Museum, [i] 
Middlebury. 

Middlebury College, [iii] 

Sheldon's Art Museum Archaeological and Historical Society, [i] 
Montpelier. 

State Cabinet of Natural History, [i] 

Vermont Historical Society, [iii] 

Vermont Methodist Seminary and Female College, [i] 

Vermont State Library, [iii] 

Newbury. 

Newbury Seminary and Ladies' Institute, [i] 

Northfield. 

Lewis College (formerly Norwich University), (i] 
Eandolph. 

State Normal School, [i] 



326 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Saint Johnsbury. 

Saint Johnsbury Athenaeum. [iii| 
Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Strafford. 

Harris Library (Public Library), [ii] 

Thetford. 

Latham Memorial Library, [i] 
Thetford Academy, [i] 

West Pawlet. 

Literary Circle Library, [i] 

Windsor. 

Windsor Library Association, [i] 

VIRGINIA. 

Alexandria. 

Episcopal High School of Virginia, [i] 

Ashland. 

Randolph Macon College, [iii] 

Blackshurg. 

Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College, [ii] 

Christiansburg. 

Montgomery Female College, [i] 

Crozet. 

Miller Manual School, [i] 

Culpeper. 

Piedmont Agricultural Society, [i] 

Emory. 

Emory and Henry College, [iii] 

Fortress Monroe. 

United States Artillery School. [1] 

Hampden Sidney. 

Hampden Sidney College, [iii] 

Hampton. 

Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute, [ij 

Leesbnrg. 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Lexington. 

Virginia Military Institute, [iii] 
Washington and Lee University, [iii] 
School of Civil and Mining Engineering, [i] 

National Soldiers' Home. 

Soldiers' Home (Southern Branch), [i] 

Newmarket. 

Polyteclmic Institute, [ii] 



,.| 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 327 

Norfolk. 

United States Naval Hospital, [i] 

Norfolk Mission College, [i] 

Webster Literary and Scientific Institute. [1] 

JiTorwood. 

Norwood High School and College, [i] 

Petersburg. 

Petersburg Benevolent Mechanics' Association, [i] 
Virginia Normal and Collegiate Institute, [i] 

Bichmond. 

Eichmond Academy of Medicine, [i] 

Eichmond College, [iii] 

Eichmond High School, [i] 

Virginia Department of Agriculture, [i] 

Virginia Historical Society, [iii] 

Virginia State Library, [iii] 

young Men's Christian Association, [i] 

Salem. 

Eoanoke College, [iii] 

Snowville. 

Suowville Library Association, [i] 

Theological Seminary. 

Protestant Episcopal Theological Seminary, [iii] 

Unison. 

Unison Public Library, [i] 

University of Virginia. 

University of Virginia, [iii] 
Leander McCormick Observatory, [i] 

■Williamsburgh. 

Eastern Lunatic Asylum, [i] 

WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 

Anacortes. 

Alden Academy, [i] 
Cheney. 

Cheney (Benjamin P.) Academy, [i] 
Dayton. 

Dayton Library Association, [i] 
Fort Steilacoom. 

Hospital for the Insane, [i] 

Olympia. 

Territorial Library, [i] 
Seattle. 

Public School Library (Denning School), [i] 



328 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Seattle— Continued. 

University of Washington Territorj-. [ii] 
Yesler College, [ij 

Spokane Falls. 

Spokane Library Association, [i] 
Tacoma. 

Annie Wright Seminary, [ij 

Tacoma Chamber of Commerce, [i] 
Vancouver. 

Vancouver College, [i] 

Walla Walla. 

Association for the Advancement of Science, [i] 
Whitman College and Seminary, [ii] 

WEST VIRGINIA. 

Bethany College. 

Bethany College, [iii] 

Charleston. 

State Library, [iii] 

Flemington. 

^Vest Virginia College, [ii] 

Huntington. 

Huntington Public School Library, [i] 
Marshall College (State Normal School), [i] 

Huttonsville. 

Agricultural and Pomological Society, [i] 

Morgantown. 

Morgantown Female Seminary, [i] 

West Virginia University and Agricultural College. [ iii] 

Romney. 

West Virginia Institute for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, [i] 

Shepherdstown. 

Shepherd College, [i] 

Weston. 

West Virginia Eospital for the Insane, [i] 

Wheeling. 

State Library (see Charleston). 
Wheeling Public Library, [i] 

WISCONSIN. 

Antigo. 

Wisconsin Geographical Society, [i] 

Appleton. 

Lawrence University (Appleton Library), [iii] 



LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 329 

Beaver Dam. 

Beaver Dam Public Library, [i] 

Way land University, [i] 
Beloit. 

Beloit College, [iii] 

Bnrlington. 

Burlington School Library, [i] 

Delavan. 

Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, [i] 

De Pere. 

Agassiz Association. Chapter B. No. 148. [i] 
Evansville. 

Evansville Seminary, [i] 
Franklin. 

College of the Mission of the Northwestern Synod of the Ee- 
formed Church, [i] 

Galesville. 

Galesville University, [i] 
Janesville, 

Wisconsin Institutiou for the Education of the Blind, [i] 
Lake Geneva. 

Lake Geneva Seminary, [i] 
Madison. 

Madison High School, [i] 

State Agricultural Society, [i] 

State Historical Society of Wisconsin, [iii] 

University of Wisconsin, [iii] 
Washburn Observatory, [ij 
Mendota. 

Wisconsin State Hospital for the Insane, [i] 
Milwaukee. 

Milwaukee College (female), [i] 

Mortimer Memorial Library, [i] 

Milwaukee Public Library (formerly Young Men's Association 
Library), [iii] 

Milwaukee Public School Teachers' Library, [i] 

National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers (Northwestern 
Branch), [i] 

Naturhistorischen Verein. [i] 

Public ^luseum of the City of Milwaukee, [i] 

Wisconsin Natural History Society, [i] 

Young Men's Association Library (see Milwaukee Public Li- 
brary). 

Young Men's Christian Association, [i] 



330 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 

Osceola Mills. 

Osceola Graded School (successor to High School), [i] 

Platteville. 

Wisconsin State Normal School, [iii] 
Racine. 

Eacine College, fiii] 
Ripon. 

Eipon College, [i] 
River Falls. 

State Normal School, fi] 

Shawano. 

Shawano City High School, [i] 

Sinsinawa. 

Saint Clara Academy (female), [i] 

Watertown. 

Watertown High School, [i] 

Waupun. 

Waupun Library Association, [i] 
Whitewater. 

State Normal School, [i] 

WYOMING TERRITORT. 

Cheyenne. 

Territorial Library, [ii] 

Wyoming Academy of Art, Science, and Letters, [i] 

Laramie City. 

Public School Library, [i] 

Wyoming Library and Literary Association, [i] 






CIRCULAR RELATIVE TO A MATHEMATICAL PRIZE. 



Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Sir : I beg to transmit to you the following communication, that will 
shortly appear in the journal Acta Mathematical of which I am chief 
editor : 

"His Majesty Oscar II wishing to give a fresh proof of his interest 
in the advancement of mathematical science, an interest already mani- 
fested by his graciously encouraging the publication of the journal 
Acta Mathematica, which is placed under his august protection, has 
resolved to award a prize, on the 21st of January, 1889, the sixtieth 
anniversary of his birthday, to an important discovery in the field of 
higher mathematical analysis. This prize will consist in a gold medal 
of the eighteenth size bearing His Majesty's image and having a value 
of a thousand francs, together with a sum of two thousand five hun- 
dred crowns (1 crown equal to about 1 franc 40 centimes). 

"His Majesty has been pleased to intrust the task of carrying out 
His intentions to a commission of three members, Mr. Carl Weierstrass 
in Berlin, Mr. Charles Hermite in Paris, and the chief editor of this 
journal, Mr. Gosta Mittag Leffler in Stockholm. The commissioners 
having presented a report of their work to His Majesty, he has gra- 
ciously signified his approval of the following final propositions of theirs : 

"Having taken into consideration the questions which from different 
points of view equally engage the attention of analysts, and the solu- 
tion of which would be of the greatest interest for the progress of 
science, the commission respectfully proposes to His Majesty to award 
the prize to the best memoir on one of the following subjects: 

"1. A system being given of a number whatever of particles attract- 
ing one another mutually according to Newton's law, it is proposed, on 
the assumption that there never takes place an impact of two particles, 
to expand the co-ordinates of each particle in a series proceeding accord 
ing to some known functions of time and converging uniformlj' for any 
space of time. 

"It seems that this problem, the solution of which will considerably 
enlarge our knowledge with regard to the system of the universe, might 
be solved by means of the analytical resources at our present disposi- 
tion ; this may at least be fairly supposed, because shortly before his 
death Lejeuue-Dirichlet communicated to a friend of his, a mathema- 
tician, that he had discovered a method of integrating the differential 
equations of mechanics, and that he had succeeded, by applying this 
method, to demonstrate the stability of our planetary system in an ab- 

331 



332 CIRCULAR RELATIVE TO A MATHEMATICAL PRIZE. 

solutely strict maiiiier. Uufortimately we know uothing about this 
method, except that the starting i)oiut for its discovery seems to have 
been the theory of iiifiuitely small oscillations.* It may however be 
supposed almost with certainty that this method was not based on long 
and complicated calculations, but on the develojjment of a simple fund- 
amental idea, which one may reasonably hope to find again by means 
of earnest and j)ersevering study. 

"However, in case no one should succeed to solve the proposed prob- 
lem within the period of the competition, the i>rize might be awarded 
to a work in which some other problem of mechanics is treated in the 
indicated manner and completely solved. 

"2. Mr. Fuchs has demonstrated in several of his memoirst that 
there exist uniform functions of two variables which, by their mode of 
generation, are connected with the ultra elliptical functions, but are 
more general than these, and which would probably acquire great im- 
portance for analysis, if their theory were further developed. 

"It is proposed to obtain, in an explicit form, those functions whose 
existence has been proved by Mr. Fuchs, in a sufficiently general case, 
so as to allow of an insight into and study of their most essential 
properties. 

"3. A study of the functions defined by a sufficiently general differ- 
ential equation of the first order, the first member of which is a rational 
integral function with respect to the variable, the function, and its first 
differential coefficient. 

"Mr. Briot and Mr. Bouquet have opened the way for such a study 
hy their memoir on this subject (Journal de I'^cole polytechnique, cahier 
o6, pp. 133-198). But the mathematicians acquainted with the results 
attained by these authors know also that their work has not by far ex- I 
hausted the diflQcult and important subject which they have first treated. 
It seems probable that, if fresh inquiries were to be undertaken in the 
same direction, they might lead to theorems of high interest for analysis. 

" 4. It is well known how much light has been thrown on the general 
theory of algebraic equations by the study of the special functions to 
which the division of the circle into equal parts and the diA'ision of the 

* See p. 35 of the Panegyric on Lejeune-Dirichlet by Knmtner, Abhandlungen der 
K. Akaderaie der Wisseuscliafteii zu Berlin, 1860. 

t These memoirs are to be found in — (1) Nachrichten vou der K. Gesellschaft der 
^Vissen8ohaften zu Gottingen, February, 1880, p. 170. (2) Borchardt's Journal, Bd. 
89, p. 251. (A translation of this memoir is to be found in the Bulletin of Mr. Dar- 
i)ous,"2:uie serie, t. iv.) (3) Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschafteu 
zu Gottingen, June, 1880, p. 445 (translated into French in the Bulletin of Mr. Dar- 
boux, 2raes^rie, t. IV). (4) Borchardt's Journal, Bd, 90, p.Tl (also in the Bulletin of 
Mr. Darbonx, 2me s6rie, t. iv). (5) Abhandlungen der K. Gesellschaft derWissenschuf- 
ten zu Gottingen, 1881 (Bnlletm of Mr. Darboux, t. v). (6) Sitzungsberichte der K. 
Akademie der Wissenschafteu zu Berlin, 1883, i, p. 507. (7) The memoir of Mr. Fuchs 
published in Borchardt's journal, Bd..76, p. 177, has also some bearings on the memoirs 
quoted. 



I 



CIRCULAR RELATIVE TO A MATHEMATICAL PRIZE. 333 

argument of the elliptic functions by a whole number lead up. That 
remarkable transcendant which is obtained by expressing the module 
of an elliptic function by the quotient of the periods leads likewise 
to the modulary equations that have been the origin of entirely new 
notions and highly important results, as the solution of equations of 
the fifth degree. But this transcendant is but the first term, a par- 
ticular case and that the simplest one of an infinite series of new 
functions iutroduced into science by Mr. Poincar6 under the name of 
* fonctions fuchsiennes' and successfully applied by him to the integra- 
tion of liueary differential equations of any order. These functions, 
which accordingly have a role of manifest importance in analysis, have 
not as yet been considered from an algebraical point of view as the 
transcendant of the theory of elliptic functions of which they are the 
generalization. 

" It is proposed to fill up this gap and to arrive at new equations 
analogous to the modulary equations by studying, though it were only 
in a particular case, the formation and properties of the algebraic rela- 
tions that connect two 'fonctions fuchsiennes' when they have a group 
in common. 

'' In case none of the memoirs tendered for competition on any of the 
subjects proposed above should be deemed worthy of the prize, this 
may be adjudged to a memoir sent in for competition that contains a 
complete solution of an important question of the theory of functions 
other than those proposed by the commission. 

"The memoirs offered for competition should be furnished with an 
epigraph, and, besides, with the author's name and place of residence 
in a sealed cover, and directed to the chief editor of the Acta Mathe- 
matica before the first of June, 1888. 

" The memoir to which His Majesty shall be pleased to award the 
prize as well as that or those memoirs which may be considered by the 
commission worthy of an honorary mention, will be inserted in the 
Acta Mathematica, nor can any of them be previously published. 

" The memoirs may be written in any language that the author 
chooses, but as the members of the commission belong to three differ- 
ent nations the author ought to subjoin a French translation to his 
original memoir, in case it is not written in French. If such a trans- 
lation is not subjoined, the author must allow the commission to have 
one made for their own use. 

''The Editors of the Acta Mathematica." 

I hope you will take an interest in this communication, and am, sir, 
yours, very respectfully, 

G. MiTTAGr LEFFLER, 
Member of the Academy of Science, Professor of the Stockholvi 

University, Chief Editor of the Acta Mathematica. 



i 

I 



ACTS AND EE SOLUTIONS OF CONGEESS EELATIVE TO THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM, ETC. 

IN CONTINUATION FROM PREVIOUS REPORTS. 
NATIONAL, MUSEUM. 

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum: To pay sundry bills for 
miscellaneous fixtures and for glass for exhibition cases for the National 
Museum, being for the service of the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, 
eighteen hundred and eighty-four, two thousand eight hundred and 
ninety-one dollars and forty-two cents. 

Preservation of collections, National Museum : To meet expenses of 
receiving, packing, transporting to Washington, and installing or stor- 
ing such new specimens and collections as may be presented to the 
United States at the New Orleans Exposition, to be available for the 
fiscal years ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-five and 
eighteen hundred and eighty-six, five thousand dollars. 

For cost of restoring the collections sent to the New Orleans Expo- 
sition to their proper places in the National Museum, including repair 
of cases and renewal of glass, to be available for the fiscal years end- 
ing June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-five and eighteen hun- 
dred and eighty-six, two thousand five hundred dollars. 

(Act to supply deficiencies, &c. Approved March 3, 1885, chapter 359, 
page 463.) 

For heating and lighting the National Museum : For expense of heat- 
ing, lighting, and telephonic and electrical service for the new Museum 
building, nine thousand dollars. 

For the preservation of collections of the National Museum : For the 
preservation and exhibition and increase of the collections received from 
the surveying and exploring expeditious of the Government, and other 
sources, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employes, 
ninety-five thousand dollars. 

For the preservation of collections of the National Museum in the 
Armory building: For care of the Armory building and grounds, and 
expense of watching, preservation, and storage of the property of the 
National Museum and of the United States Fish Commission contained 
therein, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employes, 
two thousand five hundred dollars. 

For furniture and fixtures of the National Museum : For cases, furni- 
ture, and fixtures required for the exhibition of the collections of the 

335 



336 ACTS OF CONGRESS. 

United States ISTational Museum, and for salaries or compensation of all 
necessary employes, forty thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved March 3, 1885, chapter 
360, page 501.) 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

International exchanges, Smithsonian Institution: For expenses of 
the system of international exchanges between the United States and 
foreign countries, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, 
including salaries or compensation of all necessary employes, ten thou- 
sand dollars. 

I^Torth American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution : For the pur- 
pose of continuing ethnological researches among the American Indians, 
under the direction of the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
including salaries or compensation of all necessary emi)loy^s, forty 
thousand dollars. 

Smithsonian Institution Building: For finishing and completing the 
furnishing of the eastern jiortion of the Smithsonian Institution build- 
ing, five thousand six hundred dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved March 3, 1885, chapter 360, 
page 494.) 

NAVAL OBSERVATORY. 

For payment to Smithsonian Institution for freight on Observatory 
publications sent to foreign countries, three hundred and thirty-six 
dollars. 

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act. Approved 
March 3, 1885, chapter 343, page 415.) 

WAR DEPARTMENT. 

For the transportation of reports and maps to foreign countries : For 
the transportation of rei)orts and maps to foreign countries, through the 
Smithsonian Institute, two hundred dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved March 3, 1885, chapter 

360, page 507.) 

ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 

An act providing for the erection of a bnildiuj^ to contain the records, library and 
museum of the Medical Department, United States Army. 

Be it enacted by the Senate and Hoti^e of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That ii brick and metal fire- 
proof building, to be used for the safe keeping of the records, library, and 
musenrn of the Surgeon-General's Office of the United States Army, is 
hereby authorized to be constructed u[)ou the Government reservation 
in the city of Washington, in the vicinity of the National Museum and 
the Smithsonian Institution, on a site to be selected by a commission 
composed of the Secretary of War, the Architect of the Capitol, a-id 



ACTS OF CONGRESS. 337 

the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institntion, and in accordance with 
plans and specifications submitted by the Surgeon -General of the Army 
and approved by said commission, the cost of the building when com- 
pleted not to exceed the sum of two hundred thousand dollars, the build- 
ing to be erected and the money expended under the direction and 
superintendence of the Secretary of War. 

Sec. 2. That the sum of two hundred thousand dollars is hereby ap- 
propriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropri- 
ated, for the commencement and completion of said building. 

(Approved March 2, 1885, Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, second 
session, chapter 315, page 339.) 

PRINTING. 

Joint resolution providing for the printing and distribution of the Descriptive Cata- 
logue of Government Publications. 

[Public, No. 7, Forty-eighth Congress, second session.] 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled^ That there be printed aud half-bound 
in leather, with the exception of the reserve sets, which shall be full- 
bound in leather, six thousand six hundred copies of the Descriptive 
Catalogue of Government Publications, of which * * * two copies 
shall be for the'use of the Smithsonian Institution. 

(Approved February 9, 1885. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, sec- 
ond session, pages 516,517.) 

Joint resolution providing for printing the sixth and seventh annual reports of the 

Director of the Bureau of Ethnology. 

[Pablic, No. 16, Forty-eighth Congress, second session.] 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled, That there be printed at the Govern- 
ment Printing Office fifteen thousand five hundred copies each of the 
sixth and seventh annual reports of the Director of the Bureau of Eth- 
nology, with accompanying papers and illustrations, and uniform with 
the preceding volumes of the series ; of which three thousand five hun- 
dred shall be for the use of the Senate, seven thousand for the use of 
the House of Representatives, and five thousand for distribution by the 
Bureau of Ethnology. 

(Approved March 2, 1885. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, second 
session, page 519.) 

Joint resolution to provide for printing the annual reports of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

[Public, No. 19, Forty-eighth Congress, second session.] 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled, That the annual reports of the Smith- 
eoniau Institutiou shall be hereafter printed at the Government Print- 
H. Mis. 15 22 



338 ACTS OF CONGRESS 

ing Office, in the same manner as the annual reports of the heads of 
Departments are now printed, for submission in print to the two houses 
of Congress. 

(Approved March 3, 1885. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, second 
session, page 520.) 

Concurrent resolution to print extra copies of the Smithsonian Report for 1884. 

Resolved by the Senate {the House of Representatives concurring), That 
the Annual Keport of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum 
for the year 1884 be printed, and that there be printed 16,060 extra 
copies ; of which 3,000 copies shall be for the use of the Senate, 6,060 
for the use of the House of Representatives, and 7,000 for the use of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

(Concurrent resolution passed by the Senate [S. R. No. 114], January 
26, 1885; passed by the House of Representatives February 4, 1885.) 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1885. 



339 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The object of the General Appendix is to furnish summaries of 
scientific discovery in particular directions ; occasional reports of the 
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution ; memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared 
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and pro- 
ceedings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such 
papers not published in the "Smithsonian Contributions" or in the 
"Miscellaneous Collections" as may be supposed to be of interest or 
value to the numerous correspondents of the Institution. 
340 



RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1885. 



INTEODUCTION. 

While it has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date in its history, to enrich 
the annual report, required of them by law, with scientific memoirs, 
illustrating the more remarkable and important developments in phys- 
ical and biological discovery, as well as showing the general character 
of the operations of the Institution, this purpose was not carried out 
on any very systematic plan until the year 1880. Believing however 
that an annual report or summary of the recent advances made in the 
leading departments of scientific inquiry would supply a want very 
generally felt, and would be favorably received by all those interested 
in the diffusion of knowledge, the Secretary had prepared for the re- 
port of 1880, by competent collaborators, a series of abstracts showing 
concisely the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astron- 
omy, geology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and 
anthropology. 

The same general programme has been followed in the subsequent 
reports, with the inclusion of geography and meteorology in the list of 
subjects. The contributors to this record for the present year, and 
their several departments or topics, remain substantially the same as 
in previous reports, though with some omissions, much to be regretted. 

Prof. Edward S. Holden had prepared as usual the summary of astro- 
nomical progress for 1885, but having accepted the presidency of the 
University of California, with the directorship of the Lick Observatory 
on Mount Hamilton, in the confusion of moving fiora his late position 
at Madison, Wis., unfortunately mislaid his manuscript. At his re- 
quest Mr. William C. Winlock, of the Naval Observatory at Washing- 
ton, undertook, on short notice, to supply the deficiency. This he ha* 
satisfactorily accomplished. 

Dr. T. Sterry Hunt, owing to the pressure of his important duties, 
has again been prevented from supplying the expected summary of 
progress in geology. 

Commander Francis M. Green (U. S. N.), having been ordered to sea- 
duty on a three-years' cruise, has also been prevented from furnishing 
his accustomed resume of advances in geographical knowledge. This 
chapter has for the present been supplied by Mr. J. King Goodrich. 

341 



342 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Prof. Cleveland Abbe has, unfortunately, been unable to furnish his 
-usual survey of the advances made in the department of meteorology, 
^nd the time did not permit an attempt to obtain a substitute in this 
important field. 

Prof. William G. Farlow's record of progress in botany, omitted from 
the last report, is, from unforeseen circumstances, again omitted from 
this. 

With every effort to secure prompt attention to all the more impor- 
tant details of such a work , various unexi)ected delays frequently ren- 
der it impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department 
within the time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to 
bring up deficiencies and supply them in subsequent reports 

The value of this annual record of progress would be much enhanced 
by an enlargement of its scope, and the inclusion, not only of such 
branches as mathematics, physiology, pathology, and medicine, micros- 
copy, &c., but also of the more practical topics of agriculture and hor- 
ticultural economy, engineering, mechanics, and technology in general; 
but the space required for such larger digest seems scarcely available in 
the present channel. 

It is hardly necessary to remark that in a summary of the annual 
progress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants 
of the specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied; and 
very many items and details of great value to him must be entirely 
omitted. While the student in a special field of knowledge may occa- 
sionally receive hints that will be found of interest, be will naturally 
be led to consult for fuller information the original journals and special 
periodicals from which these brief notices or abstracts have been com- 
piled. 

The plan of devoting some 350 pages of the annual report to such a 
compilation is not designed to preclude the introduction into the "Gen- 
eral Appendix," as heretofore, of special monographs or discussions 
that may prove interesting to the scientific student. 

Spencer F. Baird: 



i 






i 



ASTRONOMY. 



By William C. Winlock, 

Assistant Astronomer, United States Naval Ohservatorij. 



The following record of the progress of Astronomy during the year 
1885 is in continuation of the records of past years, and it is given in 
essentially the same form. The annual review of astronomy has pre- 
viously been prepared by Prof. Edward S. Holden, formerly director of 
the Washburn Observatory, Madison, Wis.; and the manuscript of the 
review for 1885 was entirely prepared by him in October and November 
of that year. Very unfortunately all but a small portion of this manu- 
script was lost in transferring Professor Holden's library from Madison^ 
to California, and Professor Uolden, unable, on account of pressing of- 
ficial dnties, to repair the loss, has asked me to make up the deficiency. 
This I have attempted to do, but wish to record the circumstances here, 
in order that I may plead the brief time available as an excuse for any 
shortcomings that may be fonnd. 

This record is primarily intended for the large and increasing class of. 
those who have a general rather than a special interest in the progress 
of Astronomy, but it may be of use to professional astronomers also, as a 
convenient collection of reviews and notes. Abstracts of some of the 
most important papers are given, while other papers can appear by title 
only. As in previous years free use has been made of reviews, &c., in 
all accessible periodicals, particularly of those in The Observatory, Bul- 
letin Astronomique, Nature, The Athenaeum, and Science, and it is hoped 
that where specific reference to the source of information has been im- 
practicable, this general acknowledgment will be accepted. 

W. C. W. 

COSMOGONY. 

Faye : Sur VOrigine du Monde. Theories cosmogoniques des Anciens et 
des Modernes. Paris: Oauthier-Villars, ISSi. 8«o.—" Cosmic hypoth- 
eses vary from time to time: they have their history, in which they re- 
flect the progress of human iutelligence. At first closely connected with 
religious ideas, they have little by little lost their sacred character, and 
have become simple questions of celestial mechanics and general physics. 

343 



344 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

It cannot be denied, moreover, that they offer a broad field for the dis- 
coveries and theories that from time to time traDsform and, as it were,, 
renew science. The mechanical theory of heat and spectrum analysis 
have inaugurated a new era for speculations concerning the origin of 
the world and the constitution of the universe, by furnishing to theo- 
retical reasoning a basis incomparably more sure than that possessed 
at the time of Laplace. It is quite natural, therefore, that scholars 
should again turn their attention to the chaos from which the stars 
were born, and that, with the aid of the knowledge gained during the 
last century, they should undertake to submit the current cosmical 
theories to searching examination. 

" M. Faye's book upon this subject will be welcomed, as it comes at a 
moment when attention is everywhere beginning to turn to these ob- 
scure and sublime questions. A large part of the book is devoted to 
the history of cosmogonies, beginning with that of Moses ; and every 
reader will be pleased that M. Faye has taken pains to give always the 
original text, accompanying it by comments and remarks. The book 
contains extracts from Genesis, Plato's Timceus, Aristotle's Heavens^ 
Cicero's De Bepublica, the poem of Lucrece, Descartes' World, Newton's 
Principia, Kant's Allgemeine Natur- GescMckte und Theorie des Himmels 
and Beweisgrund zu einer Demonstration des Daseins Gottes, Laplace's 
Erposition du Systeme du Monde, and from M. Hirn's Analyse elemen- 
taire de VUnivers. After this historical exposition of ancient and mod- 
ern cosmical ideas M. Faye proceeds to consider in his turn the prob- 
lem of the formation of the universe and of the solar system. 

" M. Faye regards Laplace's celebrated cosmic hypothesis, which is 
still accepted in treatises on astronomy, as quite opposed to science in 
its present state ; he says that it cannot be reconciled with the retro- 
grade motions of the satellites of Uranus and Neptune, nor with the 
rapid revolutions of Mars' satellites, nor with our notions of the rings 
of Saturn. M. Faye proposes to replace this hypothesis by another one 
more conformable to existing ideas, taking its point of departure in 
Descartes' vortices." {Bull. Astron., February, 1885.) 

"Prof. G. H. Darwin has contributed to Nature (Vol. 31, p. 506) an 
interesting and valuable criticism of M. Faye's theory of the evolution 
of the solar system as explained in his paper in the '^Annuaire du Bu- 
reau des Longitudes for 1885, and also in his work entitled "/Swr VOrigine 
du Monde.''^ The best general idea of the line of speculation adopted by 
M. Faye may be given by saying that it is a theory of evolution from 
meteorites, instead of from the nebulous matter which gives its name 
to Laplace's theory. In the primitive condition, the universe consisted 
of matter scattered in chaotic confusion. Currents were generated in 
the midst of this chaos under the influence of mutual gravitation; and 
in consequence of these movements, shreds of matter became detached 
and moved with rapid linear and slow gyratory motion. The solar sys- 
tem is taken to have originated from a shred which aggregated into 



ASTRONOMY. 345 

a spheroidal shape and consisted, at the epoch when \re began to watch 
it, largely of separate meteorites. It is at first supposed that the sphe- 
roidal aggregate consists of matter pretty nearly equally distributed, 
and later a nucleus is formed. If r be the distance of any point from the 

center, the force is central and follows the law ar -\ — ^ wheje, in the 

beginning of the evolutionary process, b is very small, and later a be- 
comes small. Initially, then, when the force is simply as the distance, 
each meteorite moves in an ellipse about the center, and the periodic 
time of all is the same, whatever their eccentricity of orbit. In con- 
sequence of collisions, a central nucleus is soon formed ; as this in- 
creases, the a in our formula for the force diminishes and the b increases, 
but orbits which are circular still retain that form, notwithstanding 
the i^rogressive change in the law of force. At the same time that the 
nucleus is being formed, a series of flat and nearly circular rings arise 
around it, those near to the nucleus attaining a definite shape sooner 
than the remote ones. It is not adequately explained why the mat- 
ter should be sifted, and should arrange itself in rings at definite in- 
tervals around the nucleus, still less is any light thrown on the law 
of Titius concerning the distances of the planets from the sun. Con- 
sidering now the case of the first ring, M. Faye supposes that slight 
differences ot angular velocity, mutual attraction, and collisions grad- 
ually cause the aggregation of all the matter in the ring around some 
center in its line. When the nucleus is small, the rings moved as a 
rigid whole, and the linear velocity of the outer meteorites was greater 
than that of the inner ones; therefore when the planetary aggregate is 
formed, it will be found rotating with direct motion about an axis nearly 
perpendicular to the plane of its orbit. As we proceed from the first 
ring outwards, in each successive case the tendency to direct motion is 
weaker, because the increase of the solar nucleus by absorption of me- 
teorites has prevented so large an excess of linear velocity of the outer 
meteorites over those of the inner ones as in the first case. By degrees, 
therefore, we come to planets in which the meteorites move nearly ac- 
cording to Kepler's laws, and here the resulting planet has a retrograde 
rotation. Each planetary agglomeration in its turn forms a miniature 
solar system, and generates satellites by the same process as that in 
which the planets were formed. After having thus sketched M. Faye's 
theory in its main outlines, Professor Darwin points out that no refer- 
ence is made to the possible effect of tides in the evolution of the solar 
system, a part of the subject which has been so ably worked out by 
Professor Darwin himself. He has shown that the hypothesis that tidal 
friction has had free play in the past leads to a remarkable quantitative 
co-ordination of tte several demerits of the earth's rotation and of the 
moon's orbital motion, and points to tiie genesis of the moon close to 
the present surface of the earth. The rapid orbital motion of the inner 
satellite of Mars confirms in a remarkable waj' the truth of the by- 



346 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. . 

pothesis. It also throws light on the cause of the observed distribu- 
tion of satellites in the solar system. It is, in Professor Darwin's opin- 
ion, a factor which cannot be left out of account, and has a bearing 
on theories of evolution which cannot be neglected. Professor Darwin's 
paper concludes with a summary of the advantages and disadvantages 
of M. Faye's scheme. The conception of the growth of planetary bodies 
by the aggregation of meteorites is a good one, and perhaps more prob- 
able than the hypothesis that the whole solar system was gaseous. The 
internal aunulation of the meteorites is left unexplained, and this com- 
pares very unfavorably with Laplace's system, where the aunulation is 
the very thing explained. The diflference of orbital motion of the inner 
and outer meteorites of a ring, the development of that difference as time 
progresses, and the consequence of direct and retrograde rotation at dif- 
ferent distances from the sun, is an excellent idea. But it is necessary 
to this idea that the inner planets should have been formed firet,* and 
we are met directly by the fact that the single surviving ring, that of 
Saturn, is nearer to the planet than are the satellites, and we should be 
driven to the startling conclusion that Saturn's ring is the oldest feature 
of his system. The actual distribution of satellites in the solar system 
is at variance with M. Faye's theory, for as, according to him, the internal 
planets were generated from rings whose motion was such as would give 
greater moment of momentum to the planetary agglomeration than would 
the external ones, the number of satellites should be greater the greater 
the amount of rotation in the primitive agglomeration of meteorites, and 
thus the nearer planets should be richer in satellites than the remote 
ones. On the whole, then, there are great difficulties in the acceptance 
of INI. Faye's scheme, notwithstanding its excellences; but science is un- ^ 
donbtedly the gainer bj^ such suggestive theories." {Observatory.) m 

For further discussion of these interesting questions we must refer ■ 

the reader to the valuable articles of MM. Radau and Wolf in Volumes 
I and II of the Bulletin Astronomique, and to a paper by Prof. Daniel 
Kirkwood, read before the American Philosophical Society (November 
21, 1884) and published in the April number of the tSidereal Messenger. 
We are glad to learn that M. Wolf intends to elaborate his discussion 
still further, and that it will be brought out in book form by the pub- 
lishing house of Gauthier-Villars. 

NEBULA. 

JVeio nebulce. — M. Stephan has published in the Astronomische NacJi- 
richten, No. 2661, positions and descriptions of 100 nebuloe discovered 
at Marseilles in the years 1883-85, in addition to the large number pre- 
viously detected at that observatory. Not the least notable character- 

* In fact, according to M. Faye, the earth is older than the sun. " If it were other- 
wise, the whole appearance of the sky would be changed; the stars would rise in the 
west and set in the east; the moon would have a retrograde motion like the satellites 
of Uranus and Neptune." (Sur VOrigine du Monde, p. 192.) 



ASTRONOMY. 347 

istic of M. Stephan's calalogues is the precision of the ^^laces given iu 
them. He mentious that ou October 1 and 2, 1882, neither the nebula 
Dreyer-Schultz 5085 nor h 12 was visible in the position assigned by 
the discoverers. 

Professor Swift gives in the Astronomrsche Nachrichten two catalogues 
of nebulsB discovered in 1883-'85 with the IC-inch refractor of the War- 
ner Observatory. Each catalogue contains 100 nebulae and gives approx- 
imate positions for 1885-0, with descriptive notes. All of these nebulae 
belong to the fainter classes, and the increased djflBculties in dealing 
with such objects since the appearance of our " red sunsets" have been 
remarked by Professor Swift, as well as by other observers. Professor 
Swift has a list of some 150 more nebulae, which will require further 
study before publication. 

- Several shorter lists of nebulae, found by Tempel, Barnard, and others, 
generally iu the search for comets, will be found in the various astro- 
nomical journals. 

General catalogue of nehuloi. — Apropos of Dr. Holetschek's letter 
{Astron. Nadir. ^ No. 2664) concerning the regular publication of sup- 
plementary catalogues of new nebulae, double stars, red stars, &c., Dr. 
Dreyer announces that he is preparing a second supplement to Sir John 
Herschel's Catalogue of Nebulae. 

Discovery of a new nebula in the Pleiades by photography. — Probably 
the most notable achievement in celestial photography during the year 
has been the discovery by MM. Paul and Prosper Henry, at the Paris 
Observatory, of a new nebula in the group of the Pleiades. It was first 
photograi)hed on November 16, 1885, and, though it was again photo- 
graphed on December 8 and 9, MM. Henry have as yet been unable to 
detect it by direct telescopic observation. The nebula is about 3' in ex- 
tent, and " tresintenseJ^ It presents a well marked spiral form, and 
seems i>artially to surround the star Maia. 

Professor Pickering writes, under date of January 21, 1886, to the 
editor of the Nachrichten in regard to this interesting discovery, as fol- 
lows: 

'' The announcement of this nebula in the A. N., vol. 113, p. 239, re- 
called the circumstance that certain irregularities had been noticed in a 
photograph of the Pleiades, taken on November 3, 1885, at the observa- 
tory of Harvard College, with an exposure of fiixty-five minutes. This 
photograph was exhibited at the Albany meeting of the National Acad 
emy of Sciences, November 10, where the irregularities above mentioned 
received some attention. They were sui)posed to be due merely to defects 
in the photographic process ; but upon re-examination it appears that one 
of them corresponds so closely to what is described by MM. Paul and 
Prosper Henry that there can be no doubt in regard to its origin. It 
must represent light photographically perceptible in the vicinity of 
the star Maia, as stated by its discoverers. - - - The explanation 



348 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOB 1885. 

thus afforded of one of the markings on the Cambridge photograph 
makes the others of more interest than seemed at first to belong to them. 
There are indications of nebulous light about Merope; four short parallel 
streaks directly to the south following side are particularly noticeable, 
and a faint prolongation of diffuse light may be suspected towards the 
south, in agreement with the descriptions usually given of the visible 
nebula in that region. There is also a faint narrow streak of light pro- 
jecting from Electra on the following side. All the bright stars are 
surrounded by concentric bands, obviously due to effects of reflection 
from the back of the plate and from the inner surfaces of the lenses. 
These bands interfere to some extent with the appearances of nebulous 
light above described, and are most conspicuous around Alcyone, as 
would be expected from the brightness of that star. No nebulous light 
is noticeable about Alcyone, Atlas, Pleione, or Taygeta." 

Professor Struve announces that he has seen the nebula about Maia 
very distinctly with the great 30 inch refractor of the Pulkowa Ob- 
servatory. We learn also from later reports that the nebula has been 
seen and sketched at the Nice Observatory. 

Photographic study of the nebula of Orion. — Prof. E. C Pickering has 
made a comparison of the results of photographic and eye observations 
of this region, comparing the star magnitudes as given by the photo- 
graphs of Dr. Draper and Mr. Common, with the catalogue of Profes- 
sor Bond. His results will be found carefully tabulated in the twen- 
tieth volume of the Proceedings of the American Academy. One of the 
most important applications of the determination of photographic mag- 
nitudes is to the measurement of the colors of the stars. The rays af- 
fecting the photographic plate have in general a less wave length than 
those to which the eye is most sensitive. It therefore follows that a 
reddish star, that is, one in which the rays of great wave length pre 
dominate, will appear relatively too faint in the photograph. A bluish 
star is similarly indicated by a large negative residual (on comparison 
with eye estimates). These residuals form a convenient measure of the 
colors of the stars ; and Professor Pickering gives a list of ten led stars, 
thus indicated on the plate, varying from 10-7 to 13-9 magnitude, ac- 
cording to Bond, and ten blue stars, varying from 12-3 to 15-6 magni- 
tude. "The faintest stars visible in the photograph have a photo- 
graphic magnitude of about 15-0." 

Variability of a nebula. — ''The nebula near the star C Tauri seems to 
present an interesting instance of variability of light. This nebula 
was observed by Chacoruac at Paris on the 19th of October, 1885, sur- 
rounding a star of the 11th magnitude, which had repeatedly been ob- 
served in 1854, and also at Markree in January, 1850, without any nebu- 
losity being noticed. In January, 1856, Chacoruac found this very 
bright and conspicuous, resembling in its appearance a transparent 
cloud, reflecting the light of C Tauri. But in November, 1862, he could 



ASTRONOMY. 349 

discern no trace of the nebulosity ; and D'Arrest also failed to see it 
when observing the star with the Copenhagen refractor on the 25th of 
January, 1865. Nor has it since been seen until quite recently, when 
it was noticed by Mr. K. Tarrant, using a 10-inch 'With' reflector, at 
Pinner, Middlesex. D'Arrest had noticed a small star of less than the 
12th magnitude, a little preceding the 11th magnitude star previously 
mentioned, and nearly on the same parallel with it. When the nebula 
was first seen by Mr. Tarrant (on the 14th of March, 1885), it was 
lengthened in the direction of a circle of declination, and this faint star 
was at its following edge. The first known instance of this kind was 
that of the nebula near € Tauri, discovered by Mr. Hind iu 1852, sus- 
pected to be variable from not having been seen before, and afterwards 
proved to be so, becoming invisible even with very powerful telescopes, 
and subsequently reappearing." (Athenceum.) 

ASTRONOMICAL CONSTANTS, ETC. 

A new determination of the nutation constant. — "Dr. L. de Ball has 
employed for this determination the right ascensions of three polar 
stars {a and 6 Ursse Minoris and 51 Cephei), observed at Pulkowa by 
Herr Wagner, part of which have already been employed by Herr Ny- 
r6n in his researches concerning the constant of aberration." {Bulletin 
Astron., i, p. 202.) Although these observations, which were made be- 
tween 1861 and 1872, embrace only a little more than half a complete 
period of nutation, their precision is such as to justify Dr. de Ball's 
attempt. He has had at his disposal 934 eye-and-ear observations and 
933 chronograph observations. The mean error of an observation is 
nearly the same for the two methods. By introducing as unknown 
quantities the corrections to the mean right ascensions of the three 
stars to the nutation constant (Peters) and to the aberration constant 
(Struve), and also the parallaxes of the stars under consideration, Dr. 
de Ball has attained the following results : 

Correction to the nutation constant Jn — 0006 -j^ 0'012 

Correction to the aberration constant Ja -f 0-043 -^ 0-011 

Parallax of a Ursse Minoris -f 0-015 ^ 0-015 

Parallax of 51 Cephei +0-027 -1- 0019 

Parallax of S Ursae Minoris +0-034 ^ 0-017 

B 8 

R. A. (18650) of a Ursae Minoris (eye and ear) lii 9*" 38-706 J; 0043 

R. A. (1865-0) of a Ursa Minoris (chronograph) 39-057 -J- 0-051 

R. A. of 51 Cephei (eye and ear) '. G*' 36"" 11-723 J- 0-026 

R. A. of 51 Cephei (chronograph) 12*012 j^; 0-027 

R. A. of S Ursae Minoris (eye and ear) IS"" 15*" 53-084 J^ 0-020 

R. A. of d Ursae Minoris (chronograph) 53-363 :^ 0*020 

"The six values of the correction Jn furnished by the three stars do 
not show a very remarkable agreement : 

Eye and ear. Chronograph. 

a Ursae Minoris — 0"-0G2 — 0''-011 

51 Cephei +0"028 +0"-003 

d Ursae Minoris — 0'''016 -f-0"*039 



350 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

" The individual values of Ja, computed by Dr. de Ball, differ quite 
widely in some cases from the values obtained by Herr Nyr6n from the 
same observations, and it seems impossible to discover the cause of 
these differences. It is without doubt necessary to take into considera- 
tion the influence which the motion of the solar system might exert upon 
the aberration in the case of stars near the pole, as has been shown by 
Dr. Seeliger." {Bull. Astron., July, 1885.) } 

The secular nutation of the earths axis. — " M. Folic, haviug deduced a 
periodic formula for the secular variations in obliquity and in longitude, 
applies the designation 'secular nutation of the earth's axis' to these 
variations. Defining the normal equator as a plane, the inclination of 
which to the ecliptic of a certain epoch is equal to the mean obliquity 
of that epoch, and the intersection of which with tliis latter plane passes 
at each instant through the mean equinox of that instant, he concludes 
tliat, in virtue of the secular nutation of the earth's axis, the mean pole 
describes around the normal pole, considered as fixed, an ellipse the 
major axis of which, directed towards the pole of the fixed ecliptic (i e , 
the mean ecliptic of the epoch), is sensible during several centuries. 
The period of the secular nutation is about 30,000 years, differing little 
from that of the precession on account of the slow motion of the node 
of the ecliptic, which is only 8"'7 per annum. Assuming a uniform 
value of 50" for the secular diminution of the obliquity, M. Folic com- 
pares the results obtained from his formula with ancient observations 
of the obliquity, and is thus led to announce that the empirical expres- 
sion f,=0"-47G + 0"-000018^ for the annual diminution (where t is the 
number of years from 1850) satisfies very closely the observations from 
—250 to + 1487. This expression, however, gives a considerably greater 
variation to the secular diminution of the obliquity than that wliich re- fl 
suits trom Leverrier's researches." {Nature.) 

Precession tables. — In the Monthly Notices for December there will be 
found tables by Mr. Rambaut for the reduction of Besscl's precessions 
to those of Struve. 

Astronomical refraction. — M. Loewy has recently communicated to 
the AcadSmie des Sciences an account of a method which he considers 
to be especially adapted for determining the constant and other ele- 
ments of refraction. The principle of the method is this : A glass 
prism with silvered faces, forming a double mirror, is placed in front 
of the object glass of an equatorial. By means of this arrangement 
the images of two stars which are widely separated in the sky can be 
brought close together in the focal plane of the telescope ; tlius one 
star may be at the zenith and the other on the horizon, in which case 
the measured distance between the images will be largely afiected by 
refraction. After an interval of three or four hours, when the stars are 
at an equal height above the horizon, and when, therefore, the effect of 



ASTRONOMY. 351 

refraction is a minimum, the distanee between the images is again 
measured. The comparison of these two observations gives the means 
of determining the amount of the refraction with great accuracy. It is 
of course necessary for the success of the method that the measures 
should be absolutely independent of every possible displacement of the 
apparatus in the interval between the observations. This result is ob- 
tained by placing the double mirror in such a position that the planes 
of reflection for the two stars coincide, as M, Lcewy finds that under 
these circumstances, whatever small displacements the mirror may un- 
dergo, the distance between the images in the field of the telescope, 
measured in the plane of reflection, or the projection of this distance on 
the trace of the i)lane of retiection in the field, remains invariable. M. 
Lcewy claims for this method that, on account of its simplicity and the 
ease with which it can be put in practice, it completely solves the prob- 
lem to which he applies it. A few experiments ought to show whether 
it is capable of affording results sufiBciently accurate to make the method 
of practical value. (Observatory.) 

STAB CATALOGUES, ETC. 

Glasgow catalogue. — "The Glasgow Catalogue,* recently published 
by Mr. Robert Grant, is the subject of a very detailed review by Dr. 
Auwers in the Vierteljahrsschrift for 1884. The catalogue depends 
upon observations made since 1860 by the Ertel meridian circle, and 
comprehends, besides some hundreds of bright stars selected from the 
B. A. C, more than 0,000 telescopic stars from Weisse's first cata- 
logue. The stability of the instrument has been satisfactory, although 
not comparable with that of the Greenwich circle. The process of re- 
duction employed by Mr. Grant is not entirely beyond criticism. Dr. 
Auwers has undertaken a minute comparison of this catalogue with 
that of the Astronomische GeselUchaft in order to determine the relative 
precision of Mr. Grant's positions. He finds the mean error of these 
positions to be zt 0^-06 and ± 0"'9 for the unit of weight (which depends 
upon the number of observations). This mean error being 0^-04 and 
0"-6 for the best catalogues. Dr. Auwers thinks the relative weight, one- 
half, may be attributed to the Glasgow positions." {Bull. Astron., 
March, 1885.) 

Cordoba Zone catalogue. — " In a notice in the Observatory for January, 
1885, devoted to Dr. Gould's zones, Mr. Downing shows the high value 
of this great work, which it has required no less than thirteen years to 
bring to completion. We already owe to Dr. Gould the Uranometria 
Argentina, which the Eoyal Astronomical Society hojiored in 1883 with 
its gold medal. The publication of a general catalogue is looked for 
soon, and this, with the catalogues of the Cape and Melbourne, will 
measure the extent of our knowledge of the southern heavens. 

* Catalogue of 6,415 stars for the epoch 1870, &c., by Robert Grant. Glasgow, 
1883. 4to. 



352 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

" The zone observations were commenced in 1872. The total number 
of observations is more than 105,000 for 73,160 stars, between — 23° and 
— 80° of declination, the lowest magnitude being the 10th. The Eepsold 
meridian circle is reversible; the objective has an aperture of 122™'", 
and a focal length of l™-463 ; the divided circle has a diameter of 0'"-716, 
and the readings were made by means of four microscopes. In the 
zone observations it was the rule to observe the transits over three 
threads, and to read but one microscope. The right ascensions depend 
upon the positions of Dr. Gould's fundamental stars, published by the 
Coast Survey, and nadir observations have been made concurrently with 
observations of polar distance. The mean error in right ascension is 
0^*062, and in declination 0"*97. The observations were made under the 
best conditions, and no pains have been spared in determining accurately 
the instrumental errors and in verifying the reductions." {Bull. Astron., 
February, 1885.) 

The stereotype plates of this catalogue have been placed in the cus- 
tody of the Astronomische Gesellschaft. We make the following ex- 
tract from a letter of Dr. Gould's in regard to the matter: "The recently 
published catalogue, formed from the Cordoba Zones, was printed from 
stereotype ])lates, in order that any errors discovered up to the last 
moment might be corrected before the work should be actually printed. 
The i)lan has proved successful, and I believe the catalogue to be more 
than usually correct ; nevertheless, a considerable number of errors 
have been detected since it was printed, and a list of these will soon be 
sent to the Astronomische Nachrichten. I have now been charged by 
the Argentine Government with the agreeable duty of causing the re- 
cently detected errors to be corrected upon the stereotype plates, and 
offering these to the Astronomische Gesellschaft, for its acceptance, in 
case the gift should not be considered too burdensome. - - - It is 
of course understood that the gift of the plates carries with it the fullest 
authority for the Astronomische GesellscJuift to use them for printing a 
new edition whenever it may see fit." 

Catalogue of 1,001 southern stars. — Volume 3 of the Publications of 
the Washburn Observatory contains a catalogue of 1,001 stars between 
ISO and 29° 39' of south declination, formed by Eev. Father Hagen 
and Professor Holden from a series of 2,101 observations made by Pro- 
fessor Tacchini with the Pistor and Martins meridian circle at Palermo 
in the years 1867, 1868, 1869. The observations were originally pub- 
lished in the Bullettino Meteorologico del B. Osservatorio di Palermo 
from April, 1867, to July, 1869, where the apiiareut place and epoch are 
given, and Professor Holden says that the existence of this valuable 
material became known to him through the admirable Vade-Mecum of 
M. Houzeau. The stars observed are from the 6th to the 9th magnitude, 
and the magnitudes appear to have been very carefully noted, while it 
is remarked that the positions are excellent. They are reduced to the 
year 1850'0, but the mean epoch of observation of each star is appended. 



ASTRONOMY. 353 

Professor Holdeu and Father Hagen bavo also derived the places of 
437 southeru stars for 1850.0 from Washington transit-circle observations, 
and tbese places have been compared Avith positions given in the Cape 
Catalogne for 1880, the Cordoba Zones, and Yarnall's Catalogne. The 
comparisons are i)rinted in the volume referred to above, and will be of 
value in deducing the relations of the various systems adopted. 

The ^^anonymous" stars of Yarnall's Catalogne* — " Prof. E. Millosevich 
has i^ublished a useful contribution to exact astronomy in his paper. 
Sidle iStelle horeali Jino «— 1° inclusivo dette '•Anonymous'' del Catalogo di 
Tarnall (Washington, 1878). It appears that between the limiti^ +90° 
and— 1° declination, Yarnall's Catalogue contains 732 stars which are 
designated as anonymous. Professor Millosevich has carelullj' gone 
through these, comparing them with the DM., or with the catalogues 
of Weisse, Eiimker, Struve, Lalande, or Oeltzen's Argelander, and has 
succeeded in almost every case (sometimes by making conjectural cor- 
rections to Yarnall's places) in identifying the star in the Washington 
Catalogue. The paper also contains a comparison of the estimates of 
magnitude made by the Washington observers and by Argelander in 
the case of these auonymous stars. After applying a systematic cor- 
rection of -I-0-3 of a magnitude to Y'arnall, Professor Millosevich finds 
that there are 33 stars which differ by 0-9 of a magnitude or more in 
the two catalogues, and gives a list of these with their places for 1800*0, 
as there is a strong jiresumption that they will prove to be variables. 
Taken in conjunction with- Holden's List of Errata in Yarnall {Astron. 
N'aehr., No. 25G1), Professor Millosevich's paper is a useful addendum 
to the Washington Catalogue for 1860." (Observatory.) 

Professor Frisby, of the Naval Observatory, is now at work upon a 
third edition of YarnaWs Catalogue, in which it is intended to correct all 
the errors thus far detected. 

Harvard College catalogue of 1,213 s/ors /or 1875. — "This catalogue 
contains the results of observations made during the years 1870 to 1879 
with the meridian circle of the Harvard College Observatory, the stars 
observed being chiefly those required for the revision of the Durch- 
mnsterung for the Kone between the parallels of declination +50° and 
-l-55<='. The star places employed as points of reference were taken 
from the list given in Publication xiv of the Astron. Gesellschaft. The 
right ascensions and declinations published in the catalogue are de- 
rived from a discussion of the results obtained during the whole period 
covered by the observations. They are given in their present form for 
the purpose of making them immediately available in advance of the 
publication of the volume which is to furnish the details of the investi- 
gation, viz, volume xv of the Annals. The observations were nearly 
all made by Professor Rogers, who has also had charge of their reduc- 
tion and publication, — a statement which is a sufficient guarantee for 

'' Annali dcUa Meteorologia lialiana, Part iii (1884). 
H. Mis. 15 23 



.•)54 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

the accuracy of the observations, and for the thoroughness of the re- 
ductions." {Observatory.) 

Cape observations. — Dr. Gill has published, in one volume, the Cape 
Meridian Observations 1879-'81. During these years the Cape transit 
circle was employed in observing, in conjunction with Leyden, a list of 
fundamental stars required in the meridian observation of the stars 
between declination — 1° and — 20°, contained in Schonfeld's extension 
of the Burclimusterung. In addition to these, two further lists of stars 
were observed, one of which had large Z. D. at the Cajie and small Z. D. 
at Leyden, the stars of the other list culminating near the zenith of the 
Cape and at small altitudes at Leyden. There were also observed dur- 
ing these years stars which were employed in the longitude operations 
connecting Aden and the Cape. {Observatory.) 

Gape catalogue for 1850. — Dr. Gill has also recently published (no date 
of jmblication) a catalogue of 4,810 stars, theresults of observations made 
at the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, from 1849 to 1852, under 
the direction of Sir Thomas Maclear. The right ascensions were ob- 
served with Dollond's transit, which was mounted in 1828, immedi- 
ately after the erection of the observatory buildings. The north polar 
distance observations were made with the mural circle, which was 
mounted in 1829. " No proper motions are given in the catalogue, and 
none have been ax^plied to the star places. The catalogue therefore 
represents the places of the stars at the epoch of observation, but re- 
duced to the equinox 1850'0." For the purpose of determining sys- 
tematic errors a comparison is given with the Cape catalogue for 1880, 
the separate results being given in a column marked "Cape 1880, minus 
Cape 1850." 

Fundamental stars. — At the meeting of the Royal Astronomical So- 
ciety on March 13, 1885, " Mr. Downing read a paper on the star places 
given in the Nautical Almanac. The star places in the Nautical Alma- 
nac for 1884 were derived from the Nine-Year Catalogue, while in 1883 
and i)receding years the Seven-Year Catalogue was employed. Mr. 
Downing has deduced the systematic discordances resulting from the 
change of catalogues. In considering the R. A.'s he found for 24 stars 
discordances greater than 0^*05, their mean discordance being 08'064, 
which seems to indicate inaccuracies in the proper motions employed. 
If Dr. Auwers's results for these stars' proper motions are substituted 
for those of Main and Stone, the mean discordance is reduced to 08-042. 
It seems, then, desirable to adopt the proper motions that are the re- 
sult of Dr. Auwers's researches. In one of the last volumes of the Ber- 
liner Jahrbuch, Dr. Auwers has made a comparative study of the po- 
sitions of fundamental stars contained in the principal ephemerides, in 
particular the Nautical Almanac. He shows in this article that a suffi- 
ciently accurate allowance for the proper motions has not always been 
made. 



ASTRONOMY. 355 

"Mr. Bowniug read a second iiaper upon the K. A.'s of the Cai)c cata- 
logues of 1850 and 1880. He has compared the E. A.'s of the catalogue 
of 1850 with those of the catalogue of 1840, those of the catalogue of 
1880 with the Melbourne catalogue for 1870, and with the Cape cata- 
logue for 1860. The results of the Cape for 1850 and 1880 have thus 
been referred to the mean of three other catalogues (Melbourne, 1870 ; 
Cape, 1840 and 1860). Mr. Downing's conclusion is that the discord- 
ances between the two Cape catalogues for 1850 and 1880 should not be 
laid to the account of the latter catalogue. There is an error of 0«-l 
at 140° polar distance." {Bull Astron., May, 1885.) 

Ifew methods of determining the co-ordinates of polars without the 
necessity of Jcnowing the instrumental constants. — According to the usual 
method the instrumental constants are determined by supposing the 
co-ordinates of one or two polars to be known ; these co ordinates are 
corrected from time to time by the combination of all the available 
pairs of observations separated from each other by twelve hours ; these 
l^airs of observations are, however, rather rare. If the star observed is 
situated very near the pole, the circle that it describes in its diurnal 
motion will be entirely comprised within the field of the telescope, and 
evidently observations of the star's position, separated by four hours, 
for example, may take the place of those separated by twelve hours. 

M. Loewy gives formulae, by whose aid two observations separated 
by an interval of four hours may be taken, and certain geometrical con- 
ditions indicated by his theory being complied with the whole effect of 
the instrumental errors may be eliminated. The co-ordinates of polars 
may be thus determined with a high degree of precision and quite in- 
dependently of the level, azimuth, and collimation errors, as well as of 
the flexure and division errors.. (Bull. Astron., August, 1885.) 

Inaccuracies due to the use of the usual formulae in the reduction of 
polar stars. A method of observing polars at any distance from the meri- 
dian. — "It is sometimes convenient to observe circumpolar stars when 
off the meridian; the ordinary reduction may then lead to erroneous 
results. M. Lcewy introduces a simple corrective term, by employing 
which the desired accuracy may be attained ; the computation is facili- 
tated by a numerical table annexed to the memoir." {Bnll. Astron., April, 
1885.) "^ 

Star-charts. — In the Vierteljahrsschrift for 1884 Herr Palisa, in speak- 
ing of the publication of Dr. C. H. F. Peters's celestial charts, enters into 
some interesting details concerning the different jirocesses employed in 
the construction of charts to be used in searching for minor planets. 
He speaks briefly of the very appreciable differences between Dr. 
Peters's estimates of magnitude and those of other observers when the 
stars under consideration are below the tenth magnitude. Thus Dr. 
Peters's eleventh magnitude stars are called twelfth and thirteenth mag- 



'^5() SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

uitude by Herr Palisa. Heir Palisa made his estimates with a 12 inch 
telescope, Dr. Peters with a 13.5-iiich. Herr Palisa adds that, after 
having- used a 6 inch telescope at Pola I'or a long time, he found himself 
quite unable to estimate magnitudes with his 12 inch for as much as a 
year after beginning to use it, the differences of intensity between the 
tenth and thirteenth magnitudes seeming much less sensible than with 
the 6 inch. Dr. Peters's twenty charts that are already published are 
remarkably accurate, according to the careful revision of them made by 
Herr Palisa. {Bull. Asiron., March, 1885.) 

Scintillation of stars. — The instrument employed daily by M. Mon- 
tigny consists of a telescope of C^-OTT aperture, which contains, in front 
of the focus, a circular piece of glass, capable of being- turned more or 
less rapidly about an axis parallel to the optical axis of the telescope ; 
the glass plate, when slightly inclined toward the optical axis, causes 
the luminous rays to deviate laterally, and when it is very rapidly re- 
volved a luminous circumference appears interrupted by colored arcs, 
which correspond to the changes of color. The number of these arcs, 
which is determined by means of a micrometer especially adapted for 
the purpose, in which are two cross-threads comprising an aliquot i)art 
of the circumference, divided by the number of revolutions made by the 
plate in one second, gives the number of changes per second of the 
star's color. 

Dufour seems to have been the first to make a regular series of obser- 
vations of the changes of color in stars. Without any especial instru- 
ment, simply comparing the stars among themselves (as is often done 
for variable stars) Dufour came to the following conclusions : 

(1) Red stars scintillate less than white stars. 

(2) Excepting near the horizon the scintillation is proportional to 
the product obtained by multiplying the thickness of the air traversed 
by the luminous ray by the astronomical refraction of the altitude under 
consideration. 

(3) Aside from the influence of color there are essential differences in 
the scintillation of different stars, which seem to depend upon the stars 
themselves. 

The second law is important, as it permits of reducing all observa- 
tions to the same zenith distance (the angle of 00° has been adopted). 

M. Montigny has confirmed the results of the Swiss investigator by 
means of his scintillometer, and has further shown on what the scintil- 
lation of stars may depend. According to the work of Secchi, Huggins, 
and Miller, the stars are arranged in two great classes : White or blue 
stars, like Sirius, whose spectra show, in ]>articular, hydrogen bands; 
yellow stars, like the sun, with spectra containing numerous fine lines 
(magnesium, sodium, &c.). In grouping his observations M. Montigny 
aflfirms that both for Dufour and himself: 

"The stars whose spectra are characterized by dark bands and black 
lines scintillate less than stars whose spectra are composed of nuraer- 



ASTRONOMY. 357 

ous fine lines and much less than those whose spectra present some 
principal rays." 

Collecting his observations, M. Montigny has formed a Catalog^ie de 
Scintillation des pr in cipa I es liltoiks of the northern heavens. 

The most original part of M Montigny's researches concerns the in 
fluence of the state of the atmosphere, of terrestrial magnetism, and 
of aurorse upon scintillation. Without entering into details, we would 
speak of the fact that the author has taken note of some of the charac- 
teristics of the luminous curve of the scintillometer ; besides the in- 
tensity already defined, he now observes the aspect of the circular area, 
which appears sometimes regular (in clear weather), sometimes diltuse, 
curved or broken (during a rain) ; he also observes the different colors 
seen in the scintillometer, which are quite bright with a clear sky. M. 
Montigny's article closes as follows : 

"That which exercises the most marked influence upon scintillation 
and most modifies its characteristics is the presence in the atmosphere 
of a greater or less quantity of water, whether disseminated in the 
form of vapor or falling in the form of rain or snow." 

M.^Montiguy is of the opinion that the continued study of scintilla- 
tion will furnish useful data for weather predictions. {Bull. Astran., 
August, 1885.) 

STELLAR PARALLAX. 

Heliometer determinations of stellar parallax in the southern hemisphere, 
by David Gill and W. L. ElMn {Mem. R. A. S., Vol. 48, Part i, 194 
pages). — The heliometer has an aperture of 4 inches, and is fully de- 
scribed in the Dun Echt Publications, vol. ii. The only modification 
made by Dr. Gill to this instrument, — which he had already emi)loyed 
in 1874 at Mauritius, at the time of the opposition of Juno, and in 1877 
on his expedition to Ascension Island at the time of the opposition of 
Mars, — was in the rotation of the tube in its cradle. 

The plan adopted may be explained in a few words. To refer the star 
that is being investigated to neighboring stars situated symmetrically 
with reference to tbe first star, near the major axis of the parallactic 
ellipse and differing httle in magnitude; to reduce the brightness of the 
star to be investigated suflQciently for its image to be comparable with 
those of the comparison stars, by means of wire screens ; finally, to sub- 
stitute differential measures for absolute ones, grouping the successive 
observations in such a way as to obtain the distances of the principal 
star from the two other stars at the same instant, and consequently so 
as to obtain the relation of the difference of the distances to their sum 
without bringing in the absolute value of the scale. 

It seems probable that systematic errors will be thus almost entirely 
avoided, especially if several observers combine their results. Let us 
consider the operations in detail, taking a Centauri as an example. 

There was an unusual difficulty in this case, a Centauri being a double 



358 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Star. The screen employed reduced a^ to the magnitude 8^, and rendered 
it impossible to distinguish <fi, but at the same time the measures of 
distances from stars fainter than 7-5 magnitude could not be so well 
made with a 4-inch heliometer. However, the 16 measures forming a 
complete observation are always made as follows : Each distance is 
measured twice for the sake of eliminating the constant error of the in- 
dex, commencing with one of the stars, say a, then passing to fS, turn- 
ing the tube 180° in its cradle, taking ^ again and then a to complete 
the series. The sum and difference of the distances of «'2 Ceutauri from 
the first pair of stars chosen by Mr. Gill have the following parallactic 

a + fi, 0-011 R cos (0— 96O-0), 
a - /S, 1-881 R cos (0— 3470-3); 

E and iudicating the radius vector and the sun's longitude ; the max- 
ima and minima of the parallax for a — /? occur upon March 7 and Sep- 
tember 10. 

We may pass over all that refers to the various corrections, the errors 
of the screw, refraction, the proper motion of a Centauri and aberra- 
tion ; it will suffice to say that in adopting for the sum of the distances a 
mean value derived from all the observations, the distances and their 
differences were reduced to a normal scale, and the only question now is 
whether these differences are not affected by sj stematic errors inherent 
in the observ^er. It might be, for example, that the observer would in- 
sensibly change his method of proceeding, thus introducing a term pro- 
portional to the time, but the personal error might also depend upon the 
hour angle if one observed to the east or to the west of the meridian, 
and at a greater or less distance from it, and in passing from one posi- 
tion to another a discontinuity might occur.* Mr. Gill used a reversing 
prism for Mars in 1877 for the sake of eliminating thi« last cause of 
error,t and he regrets not having continued its use, and avoiding thus, 
as he says, so much labor. The observations commenced July 5, 1881, 
and were continued regularly until April, 1882, when the existence of a 
systematic error depending upon the hour angle became evident. After 
this the conditions under which the observations were made were care- 
fully noted, and it was possible to recall the conditions of the greater 
part of the preceding observations. 

There are four series of observations for a Centauri — two by Mr. Gill, 
and two by Mr. Elkin — with four pairs of comparison stars. One of the 
first facts to be proved is the impossibility of treating the observations 
of each series as a whole. Mr Gill's diagrams prove this, as do also 
Mr. Elkin's numbers (giving his observations equal weights, Mr. Elkin 

* It is known that observations of the nadir and measures of the declination of a 
star when between two threads are influenced by the position of the observer. 

t Dr. Seeliger has also recently recommended the use of such a prism {Bull. Astron., i, 
p. 450). We believe that one has been employed at the observatory of Leyden for a 
long time. 



I 



J 



ASTRONOMY. 



59 



fouud from his two series the values 0"-65 and ()"-55 instead of 0"-75). 
It seems best, then, to represent the influence of the systematic error 
by a trigonometric series depending upon the angle formed by the di- 
rection of the measures with the vertical, or more simply to admit for 
each position of the eye a constant error, varying slightly with the hour 
angle. Mr. Elkin proceeds thus, and his idea seems very rational. It 
is possible that Mr. Gill's second series of observations might be repre- 
sented in the same way without introducing anj^ hypothesis concerning 
the orbital motion of a Centauri. 

After having given an idea of the delicate questions which Mr. Gill 
and Mr. Elkin have had to solve, it remains to present the results ob- 
tained : 



Star. 


Obserrer, 


ParaDax. 


1 

Probable Mag. of 
error. comp. stars. 


oc Centauri 


Gill and EJkin... 
do 


// 

+ 0-75 
-f 0-38 
+ 0-22 
-f 0-28 
+ 0-166 
- 0-018 
+ 0-06 
+ 0-14 
+ 0-03 


iOOl 7-6 
0-01 7-5 


Sinus 


e Indi 


....do 


0-03 7+ 


Lacaille 9352 


Gill 


0-02 

0-018 

0019 

0-019 

0-020 


7-6 


o* Eridani 


....do 


6-4 


3 Centauri 


....do 


7 


rToucansa 


Elkin 


fi-4 


eiCridani 


....do 


Canopus 


....do 


0-030 I H 











It is known that the observatory at the Cape will possess in two years 
from now a 7-inch heliometer, while Mr. Elkin has at his disposal, 
at Yale College, the most beautiful heliometer known to-day (6 inches 
aperture). It is quite possible that within ten years stellar astronomy 
may be enriched by discoveries of the greatest value. (O. Callandreau, 
in Bull. Astroii., January, 1885.) 

Parallax of Mi o^ Eridani. — Professor Hall publishes in No. 2682 of 
the Astronotnische Nachrichten the results of observations made in 1883 
and 1884 to determine the annual parallax of the star 40 o^ Eridani. 
The principal star of this system has a proper motion of 4" a year ; and, 
at a distance of 82", there is a double companion, which has the same 
proper motion, while nearly between them is a small star which does 
not move. Professor Hall finds for the parallax of 40 Eridani, tt = 
0"'223+0"-0208, a result rather smaller than might have been ex- 
pected, but one which he considers worthy of considerable confidence. 

Parallax of 2 2398 (P. M. 2104).— Dr. Lamp, of Kiel, has inves- 
tigated* the annual parallax of this double star, the components of 
which are 8-2 and 8-7 magnitude, according to W. Struve, and for the 
epoch 1832-17, distance 12"'420, and position-angle 1340-37. Later meas- 
ures by Madler,Dembowski, and Engelmann show a change of relative 

'Astron. Nadir., 2676. 



360 ^ SCIENTIFIC EECOKD FOR 1885. 

position, but of such small aiuount as to defeat any attempt at the tle- 
termiuatiou of au orbit. The stars have a commou proper motion of 
about — 0^-1720 in rij»ht ascension and +l"-S95o in declination, and this 
peculiarity led jto the suspicion of a measurable parallax. The com- 
parison stars used by Dr. Lamp were DM. +59°, 1913, and 1919, of 9*4 
and 7-8 magnitude, respectively, and the mean result obtained is 

n = 0"-34 rt0"-034 
The position for 1885 is E. A. = 18Hl^-5', Decl. = -f 59° 2V. 

DOUBLE STARS. 

The orbit of Gl Ci/gni. — Prof. C. F. W. Peters, of Kiel, has published in 
IsTos. 2708-9 of the Astronomische Nachrichten an elaborate determination 
of the orbit of the double star 61 Cygni. This, as he remarks, had not 
hitherio been satisfactorly accomplished, although very numerous obser. 
vations have been made, extending over an interval of more than one 
hundred and thirty years, principally on account of the peculiarity that 
the api)arent path of the companion star is very nearly rectilinear in 
direction and uniform in amount, seeming to indicate that the apparent 
motion of the double star is common to both components, and that 
there is no perceptible motion of one with reference to the other. - - - 
The most recent investigation is that of Prof. O. Struve, published in 
the twenty-seventh volume of the Memoirs of the Imperial Academy of 
St. Petersburg, in 1880, which, founded on the observations (carefr.lly 
cleared from systematic errors) made atDorpat and Pnlkowa in the fifty 
years from 1828 to 1878, represented them by a circular orbit. This, 
however, i>roceeded, as Professor Peters points out, on the inadmissible 
assnmi)tion that the angular velocity of the star, with regard to the 
center of the circle, was uniform. Before commencing the present in- 
vestigation, he reduced all the available observations to a common 
epoch (the beginning of 1850). It soon appeared that it was not pos- 
sible, on o^ccount of the very small curvature of the path, to obtain an 
elliptic orbit by the application of the ordinary methods. Professor 
Peters therefore determined in the first i^lace the circular orbit which 
should best represent the observations, and proceeded afterwards to 
deduce an elliptical one. The eccentricity of this ellipse is 0-17, corre- 
sponding to an eccentric angle of 10°, and the semi-major axis 29"-48. 
The period of the companion star in the elliptic orbit thus calculated 
amounts to 782 C years. If the path be accepted as thus calculated by 
Professor Peters, it becomes possible to determine an approximate 
value of the sum of the masses of the components. This he finds to be 
0-820 or 0-200, in terms of the sun's mass according as 0''-37 or 0"-54 be 
taken as the parallax of the star. As a mean, therefore, the «um of the 
masses would be equal to about half the mass of the sun, whilst the 
mean distance of the two stars from each other would be about seventy 
times thtit of the earth, or two and one-third times that of lNei)tune. 



/ : 



ASTRONOMY 361 

from tbo sun. It is not possible as yet to draw any conclusion with re- 
gard to the distribution of the whole mass between the comjjonents, 
or of the position of the center of gravity of the system. Peters has 
computed from his elements the following ephemeris : 

Epoch 1885-0 188G-0 1887-0 1888-0 

Position 1190 44' ll>0o V 120o 31' 120° 55' 

Distance 20"-(i0 20"-71 20"-81 20"-92 

Double star measures. — ITos. 2662-G3 and 2677-78 of the Astronomisehe 
Naclirichten contain a series of measures of double stars made by II err 
R. Engelmann during the years 1882-'84, preceded by a comparison of 
the differences between the observer's positions and distances of a num- 
ber of stars, with those measured by Dembowski and Asaph Hall, and 
by other particulars bearing upon his own results. For several of the 
more interesting binaries the following epochs are given : 

o '/ 

Castor - 1882-88 234-3 5-56 

C Cancri 1884-28 67-0 0-94 

fij Leouis 18«4-23 91-4 -ea 

I Ursffi Majoris 1884-41 249-6 1-92 

X Viro-inis 1883-07 155-6 5-22 

42 Comai Berenices : 1882-93 192-1 0-56 

I Bootis 1884-45 266-6 3-65 

Another important series of double-star measures will be found in 
Astro nomisclie. Nachrichten, 2684-85. They are communicated by M. 
Perrotin, of the Nice Observatory, and are in continuation of the obser 
vations published in Nos. 2529 and 2559-60. 

The series of micrometrical measures of double stars made at the 
Temple Observatory, Eugby, is continued in a "Fourth catalogue," 
published in volume 48 of the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical So- 
ciety. 

A cause of systematic errors in measures of double stars. — M. Bigourdan 
{Bull. Astro7i., I, 439) has recently pointed out a possible cause of system- 
atic error in observing i^osition angles. In the case of the Secretan 
equatorial of 0™ -305 aperture of the Paris Observatory, he finds that 
the diffraction-rings surrounding the images of the brighter stars are 
discontinuous; so that when the objective is turned through 180° round 
its optical axis, as in observing east and west of the meridian, there is 
sufficient difference in the relative appearance of the components of a 
double star to cause systematic errors in the observed position-angles. 
And, in fact, from a series of experiments which M. Bigourdan has car- 
ried out with this instrument, he finds that there are considerable dif- 
ferences in the position-angles measured under the same conditions by 
the same observer, and within a few minutes of each other ; so that the 
line joining the stars makes much the same angle with the line joining 
the eyes (always horizontal) in the two cases, one being east of the pier 
and the other west. M. Bigourdan points out that the errors cannot be 
eliminated by determination of personal errors from observations of arti- 



362 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

ficial stars, since in these latter measures the stars alone are moved, 
and not the objective. It would be desirable, then, for observers who 
possess telescopes mounted in what is generally known as the " German" 
manner, and having such a defect as is described by M. Bigourdau, to 
have the tube of the telescope made movable round its optical axis, 
and to form each measure of position-angle from the mean of six made 
in six positions of the objective differing by 60°. As this would be 
practically impossible in the case of large instruments, M. Bigourdan 
suggests that observers, commencing a series of observations of double 
stars with telescopes of any considerable size, should turn the objective 
through 00° at the commencement of each year and re measure the same 
pairs as in the preceding year, and to continue this process until each 
pair has been measured in the six i)ositions of the objective. {Observa- 
tory, March, 1885.) 

Frocyon. — In the Vierteljahrsschrift for 1884, Herr Seeliger reviews a 
work on Frocyon by L. Struve. The work is a discussion of two series 
of observations of Procyon made at Pulkowa since 1851, and has ap- 
appeared in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg. 
It is hard to tell whether these observations confirm Dr. Auwers' result 
(a circular orbit with a radius of l"-00) ; they appear, on the ^hole, to 
indicate motions of a smaller amplitude. 

/? Cygni, Albireo. — The December number of U Astronomie contains 
an article on this star in which a singular mistake occurs.* /5 Cygni is 
riamsteed's 6 Cygni, and M. Flammarion has been misled by this cir- 
cumstance into identifying it with Bode's G Cygni, which latter star 
Professor Ball observed for annual parallax a year or two back, and 
found for it a value of about half a second. The star observed by Pro- 
fessor Ball is called 6 (B) Cygni, as being the second of the pair, 6 
Cygni being a double star, {Observatory.) 

VARIABLE, NEW, OR TEMPORARY STARS. 

* 

Gore's catalogue of suspected variables.* — This catalogue may be re- 
garded as complemental to the Catalogue of Known Variable Stars, by 
the same author, which was read before the Koyal Irish Academy, Jan- 
uary 28, 1884. It contains a list, including lettered numbers, of 745 1 
stars in which some change of magnitude is suspected. The stars are 
tabulated in order of Eight Ascension for the epoch 1880-0, and in sep- 
arate columns are to be found particulars of the supposed change of 
magnitude and the authority on which the supposed change rests. In 
the notes and observations, by which the catalogue is followed, are 
given particulars of the history of each star, together with observations 
by the author of such stars as have received attention from him. The 

* A Catalogue of Suspected Variable Stars, with Notes and Observations. By .1. E. 
Gore, M. R. I. A., F. R. A. S. A paper read befote the Royal Irish Academy, May 12, 

1884. 



.'■< t 



ASTRONOMY. 363 

work is accompanied by a map showing the distribution of known and 
suspected variable stars. 

A catalogue of this character forms a valuable working catalogue for 
the observer's use. By further observation suspected variation will in 
some cases be proved to be real, and the stars claim a place in a cata- 
logue of known variables. A claim of this kind might indeed already 
be made in the case of Nos. 234, 455, and 635 of Mr. Gore's list. It may 
just be mentioned in passing that the place of No. 234, U Canis Minoris 
is incompletely given in the catalogue. Its more exact place for 1880 
is R. A. 7^ 34°^ 49« ; Deck, + 8° 39'-5. There are other cases in which, 
though the period is as yet indeterminate, the fact of variation and its 
amount may be stated with some confidence. On the other hand, fur- 
ther observation may tend to throw a doubt on the suspicion of change 
in the case of other stars, and, as our author observes, " these must of 
course be removed from future catalogues." In the notes to ISTo. 287, of 
his catalogue, a Hydrse, Mr. Gore quotes remarks by Sir John Herschel, 
Dr. Schmidt, and Dr. Gould to the effect that the supposed variability 
of this star may possibly be due to the influence of its ruddy color on ihe 
estimates of its brightness. Is it not possible that the effect of color on 
estimates of magnitude as respects different observers, or the same ob- 
server at different times, has hardly received so much attention as it de- 
serves? 

Large as is the number of stars included in Mr. Gore's catalogue, 
further additions might be made to it. Comparing it, for instance, 
with the tables of suspected variables, extracted from Mr. Chandler's 
unpublished catalogue, by Professor Pickering, and printed in his 
"Recent observations of variable stars" in the Proceedings of the 
American Academy, we find some thirty stars which are not included 
in Mr. Gore's list, and it is probable that others might be found in 
other quarters also. Indeed, the experience of most variable star ob- 
servers would probably suggest the view that cases of slight but dis- 
tinctly recognizable light variation are relatively numerous. 

A word in regard to No. 445 in the catalogue may possibly helj) to 
avert the ctance of a little confusion in the future. This star was en- 
tered as TJ Bootis in Professor Schonfield's first catalogue of variable 
stars, but was rejected by him in his Zn-eiter Catalog. There is 
another star called IT Bootis by Mr. Baxendell, in a paper in the Man- 
chester Lit. and Phil. Soc. Proceedings, vol. 21, No. 11, the place of which, 
brought up to 1880, is R. A. U^ 48°' 47« ; Deck -f 18° 10'-9. This star 
has a period of 175-5 days, with a range of magnitude from about 13-5 
at minimum to about 9*2 at maximum. 

In conclusion we commend to the attention of all who are interested 
in the subject of variable stars a work the i)reparation of tvhich must 
have entailed on the author a considerable amount of labor both as 
compiler and observer. (Nature.) 



364 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 

New variable in Vulpecula. — Mr. Edwin F. Sawyer has found* that 
the star D M. + 27°, 3890 is an interesting variable of the /; Aquilae 
type. From a preliminary reduction of the few observations thus far 
obtained a light curve has been formed, indicating strongly that the 
period will not vary much from 4^ days. The approximate limits of 
fluctuation are from 5*5 to 6'7 mag. The star is not in Argelander's 
Uranomeiria Nova; in Heis it is 6'0; in Harvard Photometry and the 
Durchmusterung 6-1. It is close to the star 32 Vulpeculae, which has 
been suspected of variability. The position of the new variable for 
18850 is: E. A. 20'> 45"^ 19«-4; Decl. + 270 42'-3. 

New variable in Cetus. — Mr. Sawyer also reports t a new variable in the 
constellation Cetus. The star was first observed on December IG, 1884, 
and noted as 7th magnitude. On January 10, 1885, it had decreased 
about a magnitude in brightness, and by February 10 it was barely 
visible in a field glass, or it was of about 9*0 magnitude. An observa- 
tion on March 5, by Mr. Sawyer and Mr. Chandler, with a 6-inch equa- 
torial, made the star of 10^ magnitude. The position for 1855-0 is : 
E. A. 2^1 20'" 45«; Decl. — 13° 47', and the star appears to be identical 
with S. DM. — 130, 479. [Astron Naehr., 2691.) 

Variability of D M. — 1^,3553. — Dr.Valentiuer, director of the Karls- 
ruhe Observatory, has detected a slight variation, of about 0*5 magni- 
tude, in the brightness of this star. 

Variable in Ursa Minor. — Dr. Safarik has carefully observed a star 
given in Professor Pickering's second list of stars with remarkable spec- 
tra and there noted as variable; and he has found a mean period of 337 
days with the epoch of max. 1883 August 1, epoch of min. 1883 Novem- 
ber 26. The star is red, and gives a banded spectrum. Professor Sa- 
farik has designated it "E Ursse Minoris," as the first variable known 
to him in the constellation Ursa Minor. 

Observations of variable stars in 1884. — In the Froc. Amer. Acad., vol. 
XX, p. 393, Professor Pickering gives a concise but clear view of the 
progress of observations, in Europe as well as in America, of this inter- 
esting class of objects during the year 1884. The following observers 
have co-operated with Harvard College in this important branch of as- 
tronomical research, viz, Backhouse and Knott in England ; Duu6r, 
Hartwig, Safarik, and Wilsing on the continent of Europe; Eadie, Ha- 
gen, Parkharst, and Sawyer in the United States^. Professor Pickering 
gives a list of about 150 variables which have been observed during the 
year, with the number of nights on which each star was observed by the 
astronomer whose designation is attached to the number. It is hoped 
that observers of variable stars will continue to farnish accounts of their 
work during each year as soon as possible after its close. It is desira- 
ble that these accounts should be received at the Harvard College Ob- 
servatory as early as February 1 of the following year. (Observatory.) 

* Astron. Nachr,, 2704. \ Astron. Nachr., 2660. 



A&TRONOMY. PtCuy 

The new star in the great nehula of Andromeda. — The astronomical 
eveut that attracted the most widespread attention in the year 1885, or 
l)erhaps in several years, was the telegraphic annonnceinent, on August 
.'U, by Dr. Hartwig, of the Dorpat Observatory, of his discovery, on the 
previous evening, of a new star in the great nebula of Andromeda. 

The following- account of this '■^Nova Andromedte" is taken from a 
paper *read by Prof. Asaph Hall, at the meeting of the Philosophical 
Society of Washington, on February 13, 1886. Further details of the 
observations must be deferred to another report. 

Dr. Hartwig " had suspected some change in the nebula as early as the 
20th of August, but bad weather and a lack of instrumental means for 
making the matter certain deferred the announcement until the 31st. 
From the various estimates at that time the star was probably a little 
brighter than the 7th magnitude, or just below the limit of visibility 
to the naked eye. The announcement, of course, turned a host of ob- 
servers to the new star, and many erroneous estimates and statements 
were made. Some observers estimated the brightness far too great, 
and several, on account of errors in the observations, announced that 
the new star was moving with an enormous velocity. It required the 
lapse of a few weeks to clear away and correct all this error. 

"After Dr. Hartwig's announcement it appeared that several others 
had seen the new star, but for some reason, perhaps want of familiarity 
with this nebula and lack of con fidence that anew star had really appeared , 
they did not make a public announcement. Thus the Baroness Pod 
maniczky, of Eastern Hungary, saw the new star on August 22 or 23 
with a 3^-inch comet-seeker, and called the attention of a visitor to it, 
but they do not seem to have been certain that the object was new. This 
lady looked at the nebula on August 13, and did not see the new star. 
Mr. H, S. Moore, of McKinney, Tex., saw the new star on August 30. 
The circumstances indicate that this is a hona fide observation. A really 
independent discovery was made by Freiherr von Sjnessen, of Wiukel, 
in Eheingau, who found the new star on August 30. - - - ,Mr. Isaac 
W. Ward, of Belfast, Ireland, claims that he saw the new star on August 
19, when it was of the 9^ magnitude. Finally, Prof. Ludoric Grelly, of 
Rouen, says that he saw the new star on the 17th of August, and showed 
it to several friends and visitors. On the other hand, Mr. Tempel, of 
Florence, Italy, who has done much work on nebulse, and wlio is well 
acquainted with the great nebula of Andromeda, says that he is con- 
tident that there was no star in the place of the new one which was 
easily visible in his telescope on the 15th and IGth of August. This 
testimony is important and serves to fix the time of the a)>])earance of the 
nova^ or at least the time it became an easy object in telescopes, within 
very narrow limits. This time must have been between the 16th and 
20th of August, 1885. It is probable that the star increased rapidly in 
brightness, since on August 31 it was of the 7th magnitude. It never, 

* See, also, Amer. J. Sci., 3 ser., vol. 31, p. 299-303. 



o 



66 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



I think, became much brighter, though statemeuts were made early in 
September that it was of the 2d or 3d magnitude and easily visible to 
the naked eye. Its diminution of brightness began about August 31, 
and has gone on i)retty steadily until the present time [February, 
1886]. - - - 

" At first the position of the new star was confounded with that of the 
bright point of the nebula, and as this mistake added interest to the dis- 
covery it was some time before it could be generally corrected. - - - 
The assumption of any intimate physical connection of the new star with 
the nebula has been given up by Vogel, of Potsdam, and Hasselberg, of 
Pulkowa, who have examined its spectrum. Within the limits of this 
nebula there can be counted from fifteen hundred to two thousand tele- 
scopic stars, and one of these has proved to belong to the class of tempo- 
rary stars, so called, of which we have records of from 20 to 30. What 
causes these stars suddenly to flame out and then to fade gradually away 
we do not know, and, so far as 1 know, there is hardly a plausible theory. 

" I firstsaw the new star on September 6, when its magnitude seemed 
to me 7 J, and the star had a decidedly ruddy tinge. This color lasted 
but a few weeks, and as the star grew fainter it became of a white 
color. My observations have been continued until February 7 of the 
present year, and probably the star will be visible in the 26-inch refract- 
or after the present moon has passed. It is now very near the limit of 
visibility in our telescope, or of nearly the 16th magnitude. The passage 
from the 7th magnitude to the 16th corresponds to a very great change 
of brightness, since it is the passage from the limit of visibility to the 
naked eye to that in a 26-inch telescope. Several hypotheses were pro- 
posed to account for this wonderful star, and one that seemed to me quite 
ingenious is that of Mr. Monck, of Ireland, who assumed that this star is 
one of the swiftly-moving ones that in rushing through the nebula had 
been set on fire, like a meteor in our atmosphere. Led by some such 
suggestion, and also by that of Professor Peters that it would be inter- 
esting to test the parallax of such a star, on September 29 I began some 
measures of the new star by referring it by means of polar co-ordinates 
to a known star of the lltli magnitude, distant from it a little less than 
2'. - - - I do not think my measures show any jiroof of a parallax, 
though they indicate, perhaps, a diminution of the distance, and even 
this may be sufficiently accounted for by variations in the light and 
color of the new star, since such variations would be likely to affect the 
measures. - - - 

"The great nebula of Andromeda is easily visible to the naked eye, 
and doubtless it was known to the astronomers of very ancient times. 
Those astronomers watched the heavens with unaided vision much 
more carefully than do modern astronomers, and they were far better 
acquainted with the constellations. The old astronomers had a theory 
that this nebula was variable both in form and brightness. They had 
poor means of judging of its form, but it is possible that their esti- 



I 



I 

1 



ASTRONOMY. 367 

mate of brigbtiiess may be more trustwortby, and that our new star may 
be an old variable which has appeared before, causing tlie nebula ap- 
parently to vary in brightness." - - - 

The new star near x' Orionis. — Mr. J. E. Gore, of Beltra, Ballysadare, 
Ireland, discovered on December L3 a reddish star of about the Gth 
magnitude, following x' (54) Orionis by about a minute and a half of 
time, nearly in the same parallel. Drs. Oopeland and Becker observed 
it at Dun Echt on the IGth, and found it to be of the 6 J magnitude and 
of an orange-red color. They remark : " It has a very beautiful banded 
spectrum of the third type, seven dark bands being readily distin- 
guished with the prism; the bright intervals seem full of bright lines, 
especially in the green and blue." M. C. Wolf has also examined the 
spectrum of this remarkable star at the Paris Observatory ; he finds it 
to be of a totally different character from those of the stars which un- 
derwent such great outbursts of brilliancy in the constellations Corona 
and Cygnusin the years 1866 and 1876, respectively, and presenting, in 
fact, a great similarity to the spectrum of that extraordinarily variable 
star known as Mira or o Ceti. 

SPECTRA OF STARS. 

Stars with spectra of the third type. — "Professor Duner has published 
an important catalogue of stars having banded spectra. Following 
Professor Vogel's classification, he prefers to regard the spectra with 
bands fading away towards the violet as a subdivision of the same type 
as those in which the bands fade away towards the red, rather than, 
with Secchi, to make them into a separate class. Dun6r's type III a, 
therefore, corresponds to Secchi's third type, and his III b to Secchi's 
fourth type. Professor Duner's purpose in forming this catalogue is to 
supply the means for future observers to detect changes in these spectra, 
should any such occur, for, as he i)ointsout, these stars are probably in 
a very advanced state of develoi)ment, and we may therefore, perhaps, 
hope to discover some day changes in their spectra, which, carefully 
studied, may lead to important results as to the nature of 'Suns. They 
are the more interesting, also, because variable stars of long period 
usually belong to this class. 

"With this view Professor Duner bas carefully examined all the known 
objects of this tyx^e which are visible in his latitude, and for which the 
optical means at his command were sutficient, and he has catalogued 
297 stars of type III a — that is, with bands shading off towards the red — 
and 55 of type III b, with bands shading off in the opposite direction. 
An important section follows, giving a list of stars v.iiidi different as 
tronomers have regarded as belonging to the tliird class, but which 
Dun6r cannot so classify. Only in a very few instances, however, is 
there any good reason to suspect a change in the spectrum. In the 
great majority Secchi, whose observations supply most of these cases of 



o68 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

discrepancy, had himself at one time or another registered the star as 
being- of the second type, i.e., without bands, or- else had especially re- 
marked on the extreme feebleness of the bands which he thonght he 
saw. There are, however, three stars observed by D'Arrest for which 
the evidence of change seems stronger, viz, Lai. 24034, D M. + 60°, 
1461, and DM. + 36°, 2772. Professor Dnuer has also failed to find 
Schjellerup 249, which is, perhaps, a long period variable, and he draws 
special attention to R AudromediB, a star the spectrum of which, 
though of type III a, presents some very marked peculiarities. Great 
care has been taken in the determination of the position of the bands in 
the different spectra. It is clear, as many spectroscopists have already 
observed, that the bands of type III a occupy the same i)Ositions in all 
the spectra of the type, and the same is true for the bands of type III 
1). With regard to the former class, the sharp dark edges on the more 
refrangible sides of the bands generally coincide with strong metallic 
lines. Thus one of the most prominent bands is terminated by the b 
lines of magnesium. The nature of the connection between the bands 
and these metallic lines is not at all clear at present, the symmetrical ar- 
rangement of the bands seeming to suggest that they are due to some 
one substance rather than to several. Thethree principal bands of the 
spectra of the other type Professor Dun6r considers to be unmistakably 
those of a carbon compound, and to correspond to the bright bands so 
familiar in the spectra of comets. The determinations of the wave- 
lengths of the bands in spectra of this type are necessarily not quite so 
accurate as those of the bands in spectra of type III a, but if Professor 
Dun^r's measures are accepted, this most important corresj)()ndence 
may be considered fully established. But apart from the value of these 
measures. Professor Dun^r's catalogue, with the fnll and clear descrip- 
tions he has appended to every star, will be of the utmost service to 
future observers of these interesting and beautiful objects." {Observa- 
tory, November, 1885.) 

Bright lines in stellar spectra. — "Mr. O. T. Sherman has continued his 
researches on the spectra of ;/ CassiopeiiB and /i Lyrre. and announces in 
the American Journal of Science for December the discovery of no fewer 
than fifteen bright lines in the spectrum of the former star and seventeen 
in that of the latter. The lines seen in ;/ Cassiopeia are as follows : Ho', 
A 6356, 6160, D3, A 5840, 5557-5, 5422, 5309-8, 5167-5, 4990, H/i, A 4623, 
B.y, A 4180, and ^6, bright lines; and A 6280, 5760, 5020, 4920, 4673-5, 
and 3993, dark lines. The bright lines agree closely in position with 
the principal lines observed by Professor Young in the spectrum of the 
chromosphere. Mr. Sherman has also examined a large number of 
other stars, and Hn each case many or few bright lines have been seen, 
lines, so far as I know, formerly unsuspected,' It is clear, if Mr. Sher- 
man's observations can be satisfactorily confirmed, that we have here 
a most important discovery J but, looking to the fact that these stars 



ASTRONOMY. 369 

have probably been frequently observed by experienced spectroscopists 
without any bright lines being detected in them, whilst a false appear- 
ance of bright lines is readily produced in stellar spectra under certain 
circumstauces, it would appear hazardous to accept Mr. Sherman's re- 
sult without further evidence." {Nature, December 17, 1885.) 

Periodic variations in the spectrum of ft I/yrw. — Herr von Gothard re- 
ported last year {Bull. Astron., i, p. 211) the appearance of the brilliaut 
lines, which had not been seen for some time, in the spectra of ;/ Cassi- 
■opeiae and ft Lyrse. During the year he has been able to prove the 
periodic variability of the line D3 in the spectrum of ft Lyrse. The period 
seems to be very short, and is probably about 7 days. The hydrogen 
lines vary also, but their variation is less pronounced. The spectrum of 
y Cassiopeiae also ofiers some indications of analogous variations. 

PROPER MOTION OF STARS. 

Stars in rapid motion. — The small value of the parallax of 40 o^ Eridani 
ti'Science, vi, 358), combined with its large proper motion (4"-]0), brings 
lit into prominence as the third or fourth of the stars moviug rapidly 
•across our line of sight. Since a list of these stars seldom appears in 
works on popular astronomy, we give below the proper motions /x, the 
parallaxes tt, and the resulting velocities v, in miles per second across our 
Jline of sight, of the eight stars which head the list in the order of veloci- 
ties. The method of deriving the velocities is of course very simple. 
If a star's annual proper motion equals its parallax, it moves across our 
line of sight each year a distance equal to the semi major axis of the 
•earth's orbit. (How much it moves to or from us can only be told by 
the spectroscope.) Therefore, since this motion increases directly as ju, 
and inversely as tt, we have for the annual motion across the line of 



«ight — 



vt = ali 

n 



or, calling a 92.5 million miles, and t the number of seconds in a year, 
we have for the volocity in miles per second — 

t; = 2-93if 
n 

Of course, the proper motions below are much more accurately known 
than the parallaxes, and where the latter are small the values of ^ are 
correspondingly uncertain. The authorities for the adopted values of it 
are given in the column following them. In the case of 40 o^ Eridani, 
■\\e have weighted Gill and Hall 2 and 1 respectively, as the former de- 
termination was made under much the more favorable conditions, and 
rests upon two comparison stars. The latest values of Hall and Ball 
for 01 Cygni are practically identical. The i)robable errors of all the 
values of n are generally less than 0"'02. 
H. Mis. 15 24 



370 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



Star's name. 


A 


Parallax. 




n 


Authority. 




Groombridge 1830 


7" -05 
6 -96 
4 -10 

3 -10 

4 -68 

4 -40 

5 -23 
4 -75 


0"-09 
-285 
-185 
-14 
-22 
-27 
-48 
-50 


Briinnow 


930 


Lacaille 9352 


Gill 


71 


40o^Eridani 


Gill and Hall 


65 


eEridani 


Elkin . .. ... 


65 


E Indi 


Gill and Elkin 


69. 


Lalande 21258 


Auwprs . . . ... 


48 


61 Cygni 


Hall and Ball 


39 


Lalande 21185 


Winnecke 


9H 









The first will be recognized as Kewcomb's "runaway star," so graph- 
ically described iu his Popular Astronomy; but it will be seen that the 
others have velocities which are at least comparable with that of Groom- 
bridge 1830, and indicate momenta that represent vast amounts of 
energy. The discovery of huge suns like our own rushing through 
space with these great velocities is a matter of more than usual interest 
just now, from the fact that Mr. Denning's claimed discovery of fixed 
meteor-radiants has raised the question as to the possible existence of 
broad swiftly flying streams of meteorites iu interstellar space, moving 
with velocities entirely beyond the control of our sun, and so broad 
that it takes the solar system some years to pass through them. (An 
annual parallax of 1° in a meteor-radiant corresponds to a velocity of 
over 1,000 miles per second for the meteor stream.) The idea of such 
streams moving with such velocities is a startling one, and, if shown to 
be true, gives a very ^ i vid idea of the forces acting, or which have 
acted, in stellar space. It seems at first highly improbable that such 
can be the case, but with the hard facts of Groombridge 1830 and these 
other swiftly flying suns staring us in the face, the idea is worth con- 
sidering, at any rate. If these suns are the products of condensation 
due to central attraction, so that the luminous energy by which they 
reveal themselves to us was once energy of translation, it is no violent 
assumption to suppose that some of their constituent parts were once 
Moving with much greater velocities than that of the present whole. 
In fact, the man who should claim as a possibility that space contains 
broad belts of small particles moving with velocities which are the result- 
ant of all the forces acting on them since primeval chaos, and which have 
not yet been gathered into the control of any of the stellar systems among 
which they are sweeping, would find much to confirm his ideas in tiiese 
giant swiftly flying suns. The question is certainly of sufiicient interest 
Jind importance to call for a thoroigh overhaulingof the present methods 
of determining meteor-radiants, for probably most astronomers would 
today be disposed to deny in toto the existence of the greater part of 
these so-called radiant-points." (H. M. Paul, Science, November 27, 1885.) 

Star tcith large proper motion in Sculptor. — Dr. Gould has noticed a 
case of large proper motion in a star in Sculptor, barely of the 8th mag- 



ASTRONOMY. ;]71 

II itude (K. A. =23'' 58«, Decl. = — 37° 58'). It appears to liave a proper 
motion of + 0^-482 and — 2"'45, or G"*21 in the arc of a great circle. 
This motion is only less than that of Groombridge 1830 (7"-03), and that 
of Lacaille 0352 (6"-06), which precedes the star in question by 1*^ and is 
npon nearly the same parallel. The star is numbered 1584 in Hour xxiii 
of the Cordoba Zone-Catalogue. 

Proper motion of Lalande 16616. — Professor Frisby has found* a ])roi)er 
motion of — 0''-00020 ± 0^-0013, in right ascension and — 0"-3610 ± 0"-004S 
in declination for this star, from observations of Lalande, Argelander, 
Robinson, and Washington transit-circle observations in the years 18S1 
and 1882. 

A large proper motion has been detected by Herr Berberich in the 
star Weisse X 1021 ; and Professor Porter has called attention to proi)er 
motions in the stars Lalande 20959 and 24423. 

Proper motions in the Pleiades. — Professor Pritchard has publishetl in 
the forty eighth volume of the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical So- 
ciety a paper of some 50 pages, " On the relative proper motions of 
forty stars in the Pleiades, determined from micrometric and merid- 
ional observations." 

Motions of stars in the line of sight. — " For the past ten years the Royal 
Observatory of Greenwich has been assiduously observing the spectra 
of more than 50 of the brightest stars, for the purpose of determin 
ing the velocity of their motions toward or from the earth in the ' line 
of sight' — the line joining the earth and star. The reports of tbc 
astronomer royal have given the annual results, but no general exhibi- 
tion of the present state of the question has been made until lately, 
when Mr. Maunder, the, observer, has collected them in an interesting- 
paper in the Observatory. Mr. Maunder points out, in the first place, 
that the conclusions which are drawn are worthy of confidence in spite 
of the extremely small displacements of the spectral lines upon which 
they depend. The entirely independent researches at Greenwich and 
those of Dr. ITuggins and Dr. Vogel mutually confirm each other; and, 
moreover, if the method is applied to the measurement of the difference 
between the velocity of approach of the two limbs (edges) of the sun or 
Ju[)iter, the results are consistent with what we know of the rotation- 
times of these two bodies. We can compute exactly how fast one limb 
of the sun is approaching us, and how fast the opposit*' limb is moving 
away; and these same quantities can be determined by the spectro 
scopic methods with substantially the same results. Hence the spec- 
troscopic determinations of the velocity of a body in the line of sight 
may be fairly said to belong to exact astronomy. The directions and 
the velocities for some fifty stars have been thus determined at Groen- 
wich by measures extending over several years. Velocities of thirty 
to forty miles per second are not uncommon. A velocity of less than 
ten miles corresponds to such a small displacement that its determina- 

* Asiron Xachr..2Ci33. 



o72 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

tion becomes ditlicult. The case of Sirius is an interesting one, Irom 
the fact that its motion has cbanged frooi a recession of 21 miles per 
second in 1875-'76 to an approach of 21 miles per second in 1884. The 
proof is very clear, the separate years giving: 

187G 21 miles per second ; recession 

1877 23 miles per second ; recession 

1879 15 miles per second ; recession 

1880 11 miles per second ; recession 

1881 2 miles per second ; recession 

1882 5 miles per second ; approach 

1883 .19 miles per second ; approach 

1884 21 miles i)er second ; approach 

"But the interest of this research is not in accumulating data as to the 
motion of individual stars, however imi^ortant this may be. The real 
point is, what light does this method throw upon the theory that the 
sun, with the whole solar system, is moving toward the constellation 
Hercules at a rate of some 590,000,000 miles per annum? Attempts 
have been previously made to show that the spectroscopic data conlirm 
the theory, which, indeed, has a fairly firm basis on other grounds. 
Mr. Maunder declares that these attempts are premature, and that the 
spectroscopic data are as yet insufficient. So far as they go, they rather 
indicate a motion toward a Aquarii. 'Still, if the sun's speed be 
small compared with the average speed of the stars observed, there is 
nothing in the observations incompatible with the generally accepted 
direction.' Mr. Maunder points out the fact that Greenwich Observa- 
tory is the only observatory prosecuting these researches, which demand 
a refined spectroscope, a large telescope, and a very clear and quiet 
atmosphere — -conditions all lacking at the Royal Observatory. He ex- 
presses the hope that the observatories of Nice and Melbourne may de- 
vote their large telescopes to this work. In America we have several 
large refractors admirably suited for the work, and it is to be hoped 
that some of them may be exclusively devoted to it." {Ration, June 
n, 1885.) 

PHOTOMETRY. 

Standards of stellar magmtudes. — The thiid report of the American 
committee on standards of stellar magnitudes states that the zones fol- 
lowing the twenty-four selected equatorial stars have received a second 
careful revision with the Princeton 23-inch, which should make them 
include all stars down to about 16-0 magnitude, and that a revision will 
probably be made with the Washington 2G-inch. Four of the charts have 
been distributed to all observatories having large telescopes, with re- 
quests for all visible additions which will furnish comparisons of the pen- 
etrating power of different kinds of telescopes. Certain selected stand- 
ards in each zone, about 0-5 magnitude apart, have been measured at the 
Harvard College Observatory with photometer I, and the two brightest, 
if not too faint, with' the meridian-photometer. A catalogue of these 



ASTRONOMY. 373 

selected standards in the twenty-fonr zones, giving the positions and 
provisional magnitudes, is published, and also a table of twenty-one 
close circumpolars ranging in magnitude from 2*2 to 15-7. {Science, 
"Astrou. Notes.") 

Harvard Photometry. — M. Th. Wolff, of the Bonn Observatory, reviews at 
considerable length (40 pages) the last volume of the J.wwa7.s' of the Harvard 
College Observatory y^fhich contains the photometric investigations of Pro- 
fessor Pickering and his assistants. M. Wolff has submitted the work 
of the American astronomers to a minute examination and Las estab- 
lished very interesting relations between the results of the Harvard Col- 
lege meridian jjhotometer and the results of his own work with a Zoell- 
ner photometer. With the latter photometer the observed star is com- 
pared with an artificial star, while with the meridian photometer the 
observed star is compared with Polaris. The two images, one formed by 
the ordinary and the other by the extraordinary ray of the respective 
stars, meet in a double image prism and are observed across a Xicol 
l)rism. As a check on the work, Polaris was often compared with itself. 
The magnitudes obtained vary from 1-4 to 2-7, the mean of 630 deter- 
minations being 1'90 instead of 2-0, the magnitude adopted for Polaris. 
This discerpancy is inexplicable. The mean of the differences between 
Professor Pickering's catalogue and M. Wolff''s two catalogues is ± 
0-11 magnitudes, or for the logarithm of the intensity ± 0-044. It is a 
matter for regret that Professor Pickering did not publish the rela- 
tive intensities that were the direct results of observation, but pre- 
ferred to give the magnitudes computed by Pogson's formula, with the 
constant 0-4. M. Wolff" very justly remarks that this constant, deter- 
mined by the observation of telescopic stars, cannot apply to stars of 
the first six classes; he finds that to establish an agreement with Ar- 
gelander this constant must be reduced to 0-37, or even to 0-33. Pro- 
fessor Pickering has endeavored to make his work agree with Arge- 
lander's by adding -f 0-27 to all his results ; but this reduction has 
altered the discrepancies without doing away with them. By reducing 
the numbers published by Professor Pickering back to the logarithms of 
intensity from which they were derived, and comi)aring these results 
with his own, M. Wolff finds the following mean result : 

W - Wo = 0-84 (P - Po), 

which would indicate the existence of an unexpectedly large personal 
equation. {Bull. Astron., August, 1885.) 

The Oxford Uranometria.* — " The form of pliotometer Professor 
Pritchard has adopted is now too generally known to require (Uscrij)- 
tion. It possesses the high merits of simplicity of construction and use 

^Astronomical observations made at the University Observatory, Oxford, untler 
the direction of C. Pritchard, I). D., F. E. S., F. G. S., F. K. A. S., Saviliau Professor 
of Astronomy in Oxford. — No. II. Uran jimtria Nova Oxoniensis. A photometric de- 
termination of the magnitudes of all stars visible to the naked eye from the pole to 
teo degrees south of the equator. Oxford ; At the Clarendon Preas. 



374 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

aud freedom from liability of derangement. In addition to these qual- 
ities, Professor Pritchard has been careful, in his use of it, to free it 
from systematic errors arising from the continual use of the same part 
of the wedge for the same star. Not only has the coefladent of absorp- 
tion been separately determined for every x)oint of the wedge, but the 
system of observation adopted has involved the employment of four dif- 
ferent apertures of telescope in conjunction with two wedges, and by 
two different observers. Each determination of magnitude, therefore, 
is the mean of twenty observations, a set of five observations being taken 
with each of what are practically four different instruments. When to 
this is added the circumstance that the determinations of magnitude are 
differential only, and that therefore three complete sets of extinctions 
were made of the standard star Polaris every evening, aud that foi- the 
better determination of the atmospheric absorption and of the niMgni- 
tudes of southern stars a considerable portion of the observations \V( re 
made at Cairo, it becomes evident that the work of determining the 
magnitudes of nearly 3,000 stars which Professor Pritchard, with his 
assistants, Messrs. Plummer and Jenkins, has here accomplished, is one 
of very considerable dimensions indeed. 

"The convenience of Professor Pritchard's photometer, and the magni 
tude of the work he has undertaken with it, stand beyond dispute; but 
the delicacj- of the wedge is another question. And here we are met 
with the circumstance that the observations seem to show little or no 
evidence of any effect due to changes in the sensitiveness of the ob- 
server's eye, to personality, to moonlight, and only to a small extent to 
color in the star observed ; and this uuexpected aud remarkable result 
has called forth not a little criticism, for as the construction of this 
photometer is not such as to lead us to expect that it would be wholly 
free from errors of these kinds, a doubt seems to be thrown upou its 
sensitiveness. Professor Pritchard has replied to these criticisms in 
the frankest manner, showing that they had not escaped his notice ; 
but whether he has quite refuted them is a point which we may, how- 
ever, well think still sub judice. Probably the wise arrangement by 
which an ordinary evening's work is confined to three hours or less 
will largely explain the absence of deviations due to the first-named 
cause, and with regard to the third it is most likely that observations on 
bright moonlight nights or of stars near the moon have been gener- 
ally avoided. The observations of Polaris which Professor Pritchard 
has brought forward in this connection scarcely touch the real diffi- 
culty. The substantial accuracy of the Oxford star magnitudes is, how- 
ever, shown by the close agreement which they bear to determinations 
made at other observatories aud by widely different methods, and it is 
possible that the future may show that the exceedingly small devia- 
tions of the individual observations are a true index of the minuteness 
of their errors." (E, W. Maunder, Observatory.) 



ASTEONOMY. 375 

Photometric observations at Potsdam. — Professor Safarik lias made 
quite an extended analysis of Dr. Miiller's Photometric Researches, wliich 
have appeared in the Publications of the Potsdam Observatory (1883). 
These researches have been carried on since 1877, their object being the 
study of atmospheric extinction and of the relative brightness of the 
planets and of a series of variable stars. The instrument employed 
by Dr. Miiller is a Zoelluer photometer, with an aperture of 0-()o7 me- 
ter. The aperture of the objective may be reduced by diaphragms; 
it seems, however, that the effect of the diaphragms does not always 
correspond to the expectations based upon the diminution of the aper- 
ture. Professor Safarik thinks the cause of this disagreement must be 
sought in the employment of a magnifying power that is much too low, 
so that the resulting ocular ring is larger than the aperture of the pupil 
of the eye. This photometer is not suitable for colorimetric researches. 

Dr. Miiller's observations relative to atmospheric extinction have 
consisted in comparing the five following stars, which can be observed 
at widely different zenith distances, with Polaris : a Cygni, /; Ursae 
Majoris, d Persei, a Aurigie, and a Tauri. Curves have been traced rep- 
resenting the logarithmic intensities as a function of the zenith distance. 
These curves show no indication of variability for the six stars in ques- 
tion, unless it be in the case of a Tauri, It is a curious fact that the 
white stars do not become quite as much fainter in the neighborhood of 
the horizon as the red stars do. This is probably due to some physiolog- 
ical cause. We give here some of the values finally adopted for reduc- 
tion to the zenith (the numbers given are the logarithms) : 



Z.D. 


Reduction. 


Z.D. 


Eeductiou. 


lOo 


0-0004 


750 


0-2596 


20 


0-0037 


80 


0-3908 


30 


0-0112 


82 


0-4718 


40 


0-0244 


84 


0-5959 


50 


0-0482 


86 


0-8164 


60 


0-0920 


87 


0-9929 


70 


0-1798 


88 


1-2409 



Four units in the first decimal place being equivalent to one magni- 
tude, we see that for Z. D.=80o, 86°, 88°, the reduction represents 1, 2, 
and 3 magnitudes respectively. Dr. Miiller's carves offer as a whole a 
very satisfactory agreement with those of Seidel, in spite of the differ- 
ence of climate between Potsdam and Munich, and in spite of the dif- 
ferent processes employed in the two observations. Dr. Miiller finds the 
mean value 0-8250 for the fraction of a star's light that comes through 
our atmosphere when the star is seen in the zenith ; the atmosphere 
then absorbs a little more than ^ of the light. The coefficient of extinc- 
tion should thus be 0-8250 (0-21 magnitude); Seidel found it to be equal 
to 0-100 (0-25 magnitude). Professor Safarik speaks in conclusion of 
the recent work done by Wolf, and Langley," {BtiU, A'^tron,^ Septem- 
ber, 1885.) 



576 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Photometry of the Pleiades. — "A valuable memoir {Memoires de VAca- 
demie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg, VII serie, tome xxxii, 
No. G), by Herr Ed. Lindemami,of Pnlkowa, 'Ou the magnitudes of Bes- 
sel's stars iu the Pleiades,' has recently reached us. A special point of 
interest lies in the fact that Professors Pickering and Pritchard have like- 
wise determined the brightness of many of these stars with their respect- 
ive photometers, each assuming the magnitude of Merope,to which the 
other stars of the group are referred, as 4-22. Herr Lindemann has also 
adopted the same magnitude for Meroi)e, which he has used as his stand- 
ard star. He also employed, as reference stars, Celajuo and Anon. 32, the 
magnitudes of which he had determined to be 5-27 and 6*ol, respectively. 
The stars, fifty-two in number, were each observed on two separate 
nights, only one star of the fifty-three observed by Bessel proving too 
faint for Herr Lindemann's telescope of five inches aperture. Compar- 
ing his own results with tliose of Professors Pickering and Pritchard, 
Herr Lindemann finds, on the whole, a very gratifying agreement; 
twenty-five stars observed by Professor Pickering showing a mean ex- 
cess over the Pulkowa observations of 0-04 of a magnitude, and thirty- 
three stars observed by Professor Pritchard giving a mean excess of 
0-05. Professor Pritchard's later observations give a yet smaller differ- 
ence, viz, 0-01 of a magnitude. When it is remembered that the three 
photometers employed— Herr Lindemann usingaZoelluer photometer — 
differed entirely in principle, construction, and method of employment, 
this close agreement would seem to indicate that each may be relied 
upon with very considerable confidence when the differences of stellar 
magnitude determined by their means are not very great. The stars 
Nos. 1, 4, 21, 31, and 33 would appear to be variable, and possibly two 
others likewise. Pogson's scale has been employed for the conversion 
of the logarithm of the light of the star into magnitude." {Nature, De- 
cember 17, 1885.) 

Professor Pickering in the Proceedings of the American Society for Psy- 
chical Research has tried to find out from the discussion of a large num- 
ber of observations, whether the knowledge of a catalogue magnitude 
of a star on the part of a recorder exerts through the medium of " thought- 
transference " any influence upon the independence of the observers 
estimate. His conclusion is in the negative. 

ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Photographic map of the heavens made, with the aid of two objectives, 
by Paul and Prosper Henry. — "In their first attempts at stellar photo- 
grai)hy the Messrs. Henry had especially in view the discovery of some 
rapid means for the construction of their ecliptic charts. As these first 
attempts gave excellent results, M. Mouchez had apparatus constructed 
that was especially adapted to stellar photography ; the mechanical 
I)art is due to Gautier, the optical part being the work of the Messrs. 
Henry, This new instrument consists of two telescopes in juxtaposi- 



ASTRONOMY. 'Ml 

tiou, each having about the same focal length (3-GO meters), and aper- 
tures of 0-24 meter and 0-34 meter respectively. The latter telescope, 
which serves for the photography, is rendered achromatic for chemical 
rays ; the other telescope is used as a pointer in keeping the image of 
the star at exactly the same point of the photographic plate for the 
requisite length of time; the field is about 3°. The Messrs. Henry 
have recently succeeded in obtaining, with an exposure of one hour, a 
very beautiful proof, which has been presented to the Academy by M. 
Mouchez. It represents an expanse of about 5° and shows 2,790 stars 
between the 5th and 14th magnitudes. Such a chart as this one, ob- 
tained in one hour, would have certainly required a number of months 
to ])repare by ordinary methods." (Bull. Astron., June, 1885.) 

Fhotographic charts of regions of the Mill'y Way, by Paul and Prosper 
Henry, of the Paris Observatory. — "About 5,000 stars between the 
6th and 15th magnitudes can be counted on the plate presented to the 
Academy by M. Mouchez. The plate shows an area of 2° 15' of right 
ascension by 3° of declination, and was obtained by the new photo- 
graphic apparatus described in vol. ii, p. 289, of the Bulletin xbjtro- 
nomique. In order to avoid confounding flaws in the plate with stars 
three successive exposures of an hour each were made, the telescope 
being moved 5" each time, so that each star is represented by three 
points forming an equilateral triangle, the sides being 5" in length. 

"M. Mouchez estimates that 0,000 similar plates would be required to 
represent the whole sky, and that these would form 1,500 charts of the 
size of the ecliptic charts of the Paris Observatory." {Bull. Astron.j 
August, 1885.) 

Photograph of the star cluster of Perseus. — " During September, 1884, 
Dr. Lohse took advantage of exceptionally clear nights to attempt some 
star photographs, using the 11-inch refractor belonging to the Potsdam 
Observatory. An exposure of 45 minutes generally sufficed for obtain- 
ing photographs of stars as faint as 10th to 11th magnitude. The finder 
of the telescope was employed as a pointer in correcting the errors due 
to the driving clock; but it would have been better to point the telescope 
directly by means of an eyepiece inserted in the photographic cham- 
ber. Such an arrangement has been invented by Mr. Common. Two 
successive positions of the most brilliant star of the group have always 
been reproduced for the purpose of fixing upon the plate the position of 
the apparent parallel. The sensitive plates were furnished by Wratten 
and Wainwright of London. The images were developed by a concen- 
trated solution of oxalate of iron, to which was added potassium bro- 
mide. The develoi)ment can be hastened b^^ plunging the plates for 
about two minutes into a very weak solution of nitrate of chrysaniline. 

Dr. Lohse has succeeded in this way in photographing a certain num- 
ber of star clusters, and in particular the cluster;^ Persei, whicli Dr. H. 
C. Vogel studied in 1878. A negative obtained Sei)tember 24 served 
to identify the stars by micrometer measures, and one obtained Sep- 



378 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

tember 26 served to determine the magnitudes. The plates showed 
57 stars between the Gth and 11th magnitudes. It is certain that the 
photographic determination of the relative positions of so many stars 
represents a very considerable economy of time, and also guards against 
personal errors. As for the errors of the photograph, they caii always 
be detected by the simultaneous reprodu(;tion of a squared reticle. Five 
successive exposures of l'^, 4*", 9"^, 10'", So'", respectively, were made for 
the purpose of determining the magnitudes, the telescope being each 
time moved in declination. Five series of images, each more numerous 
than the last, were thus obtained. The i)hoto-chemical effect is known 
to be proportional to the intensity of the light and to the time of the 
exposure; in cases of equally distinct images, therefore, the brightness 
of the stars must be inversely proportional to the time of exjjosure. 
Dr. Lohse has proceeded upon this principle in determining the rela- 
tive magnitudes of the stars in the cluster of x Persei, emjiloying Dr. 
Vogel's actinometric data. (It seems that the photographic intensities 
of two successive magnitudes are in the ratio of 1 : 3, while the ratio of 
intensities as seen with the eye is that of 1 : 2'5.) Photographic magni- 
tudes generally agree well enough with optical magnitudes; still there 
are some exceptions : thus a red star called So by Dr. Yogel is marked 
10-5 by Dr. Lohse. It would be interesting to apply the same process 
to the actinometric study of variable stars. 

We must not neglect to speak here of the fact tUat MM. Henry have 
obtained a very beautiful photograph of the star cluster of Perseus 
at the Paris Observatory. They succeeded in locating 509 stars be- 
tween the Gth and 13th magnitudes included within 1° of right ascen- 
sion and l°-r) of declination." {Bull. Astron., March, 1885.) 

Stellar plwtogra'phy at Harvard College Observatory. — By the aid of the 
Bache fund an important investigation has been undertaken in stellar 
photography. It is found that stars as faint as the 6th magnitude, in 
any part of the sky, can be readily photograi^hed, even without clock- 
work; while near the pole, where the diurnal motion is slower, stars 
as faint as the 14th magnitude may be photographed in like manner. 
These results have much value as a means of determining the relative 
positions and biightness of different stars. Charts of regions five de- 
grees square can also be photographically prei)ared and enlarged by 
photolithography to the scale of the maps drawn by Chacornac and 
Peters. The spectra of stars have all been photographed with much 
success. Stars as faint as the 8th magnitude give photographic spec- 
tra in the paper prints, from which the lines can be distinctly seen. Mr. 
W. H. Pickering has rendered important aid in this investigation. A 
part of his researches upon the possibility of photographing tlie solar 
corona, except during an eclipse, was conducted at the Observatory and 
the results published in Science. 

The first stellar photographs ever taken were those of a Lyrse, by the 
elder Bond, at the Harvard Observatory, in 1850. In 1857 his son car- 



ASTRONOMY. 379 

lied similar iuvestigations mucb further. At first, however, they were 
unable to obtain clear images of stars of the 2d magnitude, while 
now it is possible to print those of the 14th, or, in other words, to 
transfer to paper an image produced by an object only a hundred-thou- 
sandth part as bright as formerly. Professor Pickering's researches 
have been carried on with an instrument that he has devised himself, 
in which a Voigtlander portrait lens of 8 inches aperture and 44 inches 
focus has been reground and mounted equatorially. It is driven by 
clockwork, having a Bond spring-governor, controlled electrically by a 
sidereal clock. 

We have already referred (under Nebulae) to the fact that Professor 
Pickering has found upon one of his plates a trace of the nebulae around 
Maia, discovered by the Henrys at Paris. 

Stellar pliotography at the Cape Observatory. — Upwards of one hundred 
successful photographs have been obtained towards the completion of a 
photographic Durchmusterung of the southern heavens. Each photo- 
graph covers a square of CO on the side, and shows all stars similar iu mag- 
nitude to those of Argelander's Durchmusterung. The lens employed 
is a "rapid rectilinear lens," composed of two combinations, having an 
aperture of 6 inches and a focal length of about 52 inches. The exposure 
of each plate is one hour, and the plates are the most sensitive "Paget 
dry plates," specially made for that purpose. Mr. Finlay, of the Cape 
Observatory, stated at a meeting of the Liverpool A stronomical Society, on 
October 13, 1885, that a 9-inch lens had been ordered and would soon be 
ready. It is proposed to divide the whole southern hemisphere into sixty 
squares, each one overlapping another adjoining it. Two plates are taken 
of each picture, so as to avoid any mistake. Th^ work will take from 
three to four years, and will comprise 1,000 pictures. Mr. C. Ray Woods 
has been put in charge of this work, and he intends to continue at the 
Cape the work of photographing the corona, which he lately undertook, 
under Dr. Huggins' direction, in Switzerland. 

COMETS. 

Theory of comets^ tails : Les syndynames et les synchrones dans les co^ndtes, 
25 i)p., 1 plate, 4to. Les syndynames et les synchrones de la comete Pons- 
Broolcs. 24 pp., 1 plate, 4to. — " M. Bredichin, while sharing some of Bes- 
sel's ideas concerning the existence of a repulsive force, has succeeded 
in developing a complete theory concerniug the tails of comets; a theory 
which accounts very satisfactorily for most of the observed phenomena. 
M. Bredichin applies the name syndyname to the parabolic curve in which 
the particles of the tail that have successively left the nucleus under the 
influence of a given repulsive force /i, are disposed at the moment of 
observation. The synchrone is the curve in which occur the particles 
that have left the nucleus at the same time under the influence of sev- 
eral forces //, /<', .... 



380 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

"Thf synchronic lines are limited and intersected by the syndynames 
of the edges of the tail. In the case of the Donati comet, Norton found 
these lines to be nearly straight, passing near the nucleus. According 
to Bredichin, the synchrones are rather circles of great radius, the ra- 
dius for each comet increasing and diminishing with the radius vector. 
When the emission of matter is intermittent, the synchronic circles 
signalize the maxima by clear bands converging toward the nucleus. 
The clear bands are reallj' hollow conoids, more or less flattened in the 
direction of the plane of the orbit. 

" In the two memoirs before us, which are taken from the Annals of the 
Moscow Observatory, M. Bredichin successfully applies his theory to dif- 
ferent comets, of which we possess sufficiently accurate drawings, and 
especially to the comet of 1744 and to the Pons-Brooks comet (1884). 
They also contain a reproduction of the refutation of the criticisms of 
M. Marcuse." (Radau, Bull. Astron., September, 1885.) 

Computation of comet orbits. — In the twentieth volume of the Viertel- 
jilhrsschrift der Astronomischen Gesellschaft (pp. 287-312) will be found 
in full Professor Weiss's exceedingly interesting report on the j^resent 
state of the computations of the orbits of comets, presented at the meet- 
ing of the Gesellschaft on the 19th of August, 1885. Nature contains 
the following report of this communication : 

"Of the twelve ijeriodical comets returned at different times to their 
perihelion, eight had again been regularly determined by the same cal- 
culators. Of the remaining four, three were removed from our present 
care : Biela's, which, as was known, had been lost to observation, and the 
comets of Halley and Pons-Brooks, whose next perihelion lay too remote 
in the future. There was consequently but one periodical comet (Bror- 
sen's) to be taken account of. As to the remaining non returning comets, 
of the 168 which had appeared in this century, forty-one were to be re- 
garded as settled ; twenty-three had their orbits pretty well determined. 
In the case of fifty-eight comets a new calculation of the orbit was desir- 
able for various reasons, and in all forty-six had yet to be calculated de- 
finitely. There was, therefore, a wide field of labor open. Professor 
Weiss accordingly sought to commend to the society the establishment 
of a common calculation bureau on the settlement of the questions at 
issue, while the exact detailed treatment of a particular comet should 
in future, as hitherto, be left to the initiative of a single calculator. In 
the discussion following this address, Staatsrath Struve argued against 
the founding of such a bureau on the ground that the comets were of 
too peculiar a nature to accommodate themselves to the methodic treat- 
ment of a calculation bureau." 

HoletscUck : Uber die Bahneines Kometen, der - - - nicht aus den Son- 
nenstrahlen lieraustreten Jcann Wiener Sitzungsberichte, December, 1883, 
(88: 1099-1162.)— It will be remembered that at the time of the total 
eclipseof May 17, 1882, the French, English, and Italian astronomers who 
met at Sohag, Egypt, observed the presenge of a comet mM^ the sun ; 



ASTRONOMY. 381 

it was photographed by Tacchini and Schuster, and a drawing made 
of its tail by Trdpied; but the comet was not seen again. It was this 
incident that induced Herr Holetschek to determine the conditions 
that must be fulfilled by the orbit of a comet that remains concealed 
by the sun's rays during the time that its absolute brightness (deter- 
mined simidy by the formula J=--— -) is sufficient to admit of its dis- 

covery. 

Herr Holetschek judges from the examples furnished by the comets 
of the last ten years that the magnitude of a comet remaining invisible 
at its perihelion cannot be greater than from 0-06 to 0-12 for an elon- 
gation approaching 15°, certainly not for one of 22'5o (the calculation 
was made for these two elongations). In order that it may remain vis- 
ible in the two branches of its orbit, its orbit must offer a certain sym- 
metry in reference to the earth's radius vector ; the heliocentric latitude 
of the perihelion must then be sufficiently small, and the comet must be 
in conjunction with the sun at the time of its passing its perihelion. 

These results, which are not at all rigorous, suffice to show that the 
unobserved perihelion transits of comets may not be as infrequent as 
would have been supposed. We know of periodic comets whose re- 
turns sometimes elude observation. But there are others which would 
have always remained unknown if their transit had occurred at any 
other time of the year; such, for example, is the comet of 1821 (g=0.09, 
/=106O). The Sohag comet belongs very i)robably in the same cate- 
gory as this last; its perihelion distance must have been very small. 
(Radau, Bull. Astron., July, 1885.) 

Guile's svpplementory list of recent comets. — Dr. J. G. Galle, the emi- 
nent director of the Breslau Observatory, has communicated to the 
Nachrichten* (Nos. 2065 and 2666)t a most valuable summary of the 
orbit elements of comets from 1860 to 1864, with a similar list of newly 
computed orbits of comets earlier than 1860. Brief notes generally re- 
lating to the discovery and period of visibility of the comet, and to the 
elements given, accompany each orbit. 

l)r. Galle's ps^per has been reprinted in Sirius, vol. 18, and a transla- 
tion of the portion relating .to comets since 1860 has appeared in the 
Sidereal Messenger (vols. 4 and 5). The present list is supplementary to 
the catalogue given in the third edition of " Olbers' INIethode zur Be- 
rechnung der Cometenbahnen," so that taken in connection with the 
latter it forms the most complete catalogue of comets that is now 
available. At the end of the year 1884 the number of different comets 
of which orbits have been computed was 302. The number of appari- 

* Ueberischt iiber die Bahn-Elemente der seit dem Jahre 1860 exscbieueneu Cometen, 
sowie liber neu berechnete oder verbesserte Babnen von Cometen der friiheren Zeit. 
tSee also Astron. Naclir., 2692. 



382 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

tions of comets, including the present recorded returns of periodic 
comets, is considerably greater : 

D'Arrest's comet lias been observed 4 times. 
Biela's comet has been observed 6 times. 
Brorsen's comet has been observed 5 times. 
Encke's comet has been observed 23 times. 
Faye's comet has been observed G times. 
Halley's comet has been observed 7 times. 
Pons's comet has been observed 2 times. 
Tempel's (1) comet has been observed 3 times. 
Tempel's (2) comet has been observed 2 times. 
Tempel's (3) comet has been observed 2 times. 
Tuttle's comet has been observed 3 times. 
Winnecke's comet has been observed 4 times. 

Accordingly, 67—12=55 repeated apparitions are to be added, bring- 
ing up to 357 the total of the observed appearances of comets. In this 
summary, of course, no allowance is made for the great uncertainty of 
many of the older orbits, or for the fact that in some cases it is doubt- 
ful whether the same periodic comet has been seen. 

The comets are arranged strictly in the order of their perihelion pas- 
sage. This is a long-established system and one i)ossessiug numerous ad- 
vantages ; furthermore, it has lately been made the rule of the Astronom- 
ische Gesellschaft. The uncertainty sometimes existing in the designa- 
tion of particular comets during the year of discovery can always be 
easily removed, for the time being, by the addition of the name of the 
discoverer. Moreover, a strict adherence to this system of numbering 
comets in each year has become necessary of late, partly on account of 
tbe great number of comets discovered, and i)artly on account of the con- 
siderable increase of the known periodic comets during the last forty 
years. The actually observed returns of these comets must of course be 
arranged with the other comets. Since in many cases the periodicity has 
first been established at the second apparition, and in a few cases at the 
third, the exclusion of periodic comets from the list of apparitions of 
each year would frequently cause annoying changes in the designa- 
tions of earlier years. In the publications of the past ten years the 
periodic comets, particularly, have led to a great many diflFerences in 
the designation of comets, an evil which is not merely of a theoretical 
nature, but, for those who often have occasion to refer to the literature 
of comets, is one which carries with it very real and practical incon- 
veniences, frequently necessitating much troublesome comparison of 
observations, or of ephemerides, to decide what comet is really referred 
to. Esi)ccially in years in which a great many comets are seen, if the 
names of the discoverers are not given, not only is there great loss of 
time, but besides this mistakes easily occur. 



ASTRONOMY. 383 

Comets 0/1883.*— The great comet of 188l> (1882 11), whicli excited 
so much interest in the latter part of the year 1882, was visible to tlie 
naked eye till February, 1883, and with the telescope was followed, in 
the southern hemisphere, to the middle of the year, the last accurate 
observation being on May 26, at Cordoba. The comet was seen again 
on June 1 at the same place, but was too faint to admit of a satisfactory 
determination of its position. It was then at a distance of 5-1 from the 
sun and 4*4 from the earth. In addition to this comet, two others were 
visible during the year, 1883 I and 1884 I ; and a comet discovered on 
January 7, 1884, was found to have passed perihelion on December 25, 
1883, and is accordingly catalogued with the comets of the latter year. 
A comet was also reported as Comet c, 1883, on September 11, but it 
proved to be a nebula; and a second comet, with a tail 2° or 3° long, 
was reported as seen before sunrise at Tasmania on the mornings of 
December 25 and 27, 1883. Nothing more is known of it. Two other 
comets have passed perihelion during the year, but, owing to unfavora- 
ble circumstances, have not been seen — D'Arrest's comet on Januarj^ 13, 
1883, and Tempel's comet of 1873, on November 20. 

Comet 1883 I : Discovered February 23, by W. R. Brooks of 

= Comet a I8t)3. Phelps, N. Y., and on the same day, a few hours 

= Swift-Brooks Comet, j^ter, by Swift, at Rochester. The comet had 
already passed perihelion (on February 18). Its orbit does not resem- 
ble any previously computed, nor does it show any signs of eccentricity. 
The spectrum was of the ordinary three-band type. 

Comet 1883 II : i This comet was discovered by Ross, an amateur 
= Comet a 1884. ; observer, at Elsternwick, near Melbourne, Australia, 
= Ross's Comet. | ^j^ January 7, 1884. The spectrum showed faintly 
the three hydrocarbon lines. A careful discussion of the orbit has 
lately been made by Mr. Bryant. The observations are few and not 
very satisfactory, and Mr. Bryant finally based his results on Tebbutt's 
observations alone. Two sets of elements were derived ; one gave a 
period of eighty- seven years, and the other ninety-four years, but both 
orbits satisfy the observations. 

Comets of 1884. — Of the five comets visible during the year, four were 
periodic — two of these of short period, and observed apparently for the 
first time at this return. The first comet discovered during the year 
has just been described as Comet 1883 II. The second discovery was 
by Barnard on July 16, and the third by Wolf, on Se])tember 17. To 
these we add Encke's Comet, 1885 I, detected by Tempel, at Arcetri, on 
December 13, and the Pons-Brooks Comet, which passed perihelion on 
January 25. To complete the list we should mention a suspected comet 
to which some interest is attached : A faint nebulous object was found 

* This section is purxjosely made to include the comets of 1883, 1884, and 1885, in or- 
der to complete former records. 



= Comet b 1883. 

= Pons- Brooks Comet. 

= Pons Comet 1812. 



o84 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

by Spitaler with the 27-iuch retractor of the Vienna Observatory, while 
searching for Comet 1858 III, on the morning of May 26, 1884. A period 
of almost unexampled bad weather followed, and on June 17 and 18 the 
of nebula was missing. Schulhof seems to think it improbable that this 
was the comet. Biorsen's Comet, which has a period of about five and 
one-half years, was due at perihelion in September, 1884, but owing to 
its unfavorable situation it seems to have escaped observation. 
Comet 1884 I : A faint telescopic comet was discovered by 

Brooks on September 1, 1883, and it soon proved 
to be a comet which had been discovered origi- 
nally by Pons, at Marseilles, on July 20, 1812 — 
one ofa group, of which Halley's Comet is another member, having a period 
of about seventy-five years and an aphelion a little beyond the orbit of 
Neptune. Schulhof and Bossert's careful rediscussion of the observa- 
tions of 1812 had placed the return to perihelion on September 3, 1884, 
whereas perihelion passage was actually found to take place on January 
25. A closer agreement (the error was only y^^ of the whole amount) 
could hardly have been expected, considering that tbe older observa- 
tions extended over barely two months. The corrected eleojents make 
the period 71-56 Julian years. As the second member of this group to 
return to perihelion, this comet had been looked for with considerable 
interest, and that interest was subsequently increased, when observa- 
tion showed the rapid changes suffered by the head in approaching the 
sun, and the curious fluctuations in the brightness of the nucleus. On 
the evening of September 22 the comet was described as a faint, round 
nebula, with a nucleus of the 12th magnitude. On September 23 the 
nucleus had become as bright as the 8th magnitude. This central mass, 
according to Schiaparelli, was not a point of light, but had an appre- 
ciable diameter, and an irregular outline. It now diminished quite 
rapidly in brightness, and was noted as the 9th magnitude on Sep- 
tember 29. Another outburst occurred on January 1, 1884, and a care- 
ful series of photometric observations was obtained by Dr. Mueller, of 
Potsdam. The nucleus became as bright as a star of the 7th mag- 
nitude, the change in brightness amounting to more than a magnitude 
in about an hour and a half. The comet was visible to the naked eye 
from November 20 to March 3, and at its brightest, with a tail 6° 
long, it was a fairly conspicuous object in our southwestern sky. The 
spectrum on the 24th and 27th of September showed nothing unusual. 
On January 1 Vogel found a continuous spectrum of considerable inten- 
sity, in which two bright lines were suspected in the yellow. The bands 
were fainter in the nucleus than in the parts immediately surround- 
ing it. Vogel concludes from his observations that in consequence of 
the rapid condensation of the cometary matter into a bright nucleus of 
several seconds in diameter, a considerable increase in temperature 
must have taken place, by which the most refrangible band in the comet's 



: Comet c 1884. 
: Wolfs Comet. 



ASTRONOMY. 385 

spectrum increased so in intensity tliat it almost equaled the bright- 
ness of 'the middle baud, iu the green, and decidedly surpassed the 
band in the jellow. 

Comet 1884 II: A comet first seen by Barnard, at Nashville, 

- Comet h 1884. Tenu., on the night of July 16. During the whole 

= Bamard^s Comet, period of its visibility (to about November 20) it 
remained an inconspicuous object. The changes in brightness, as in 
other comets recently observed, was neither uniform nor consistent 
with the law of reflected light. The comet was found to move in an 
elliptic orbit with a period of about 5*4 years, the elements bearing a 
very close resemblance to those of De Yico's lost comet (1844 I), though 
the two do not appear to be identical. The spectrum showed two of 
the cometary bands, the middle one and that in the red ; the third was 
only suspected. This comet perhaps belongs to the fainter class of 
those revolving in a short period, and this year was probably observed 
under somewhat favorable circumstances. Perihelion was passed on 
August 16. 

Comet 1884 III : Discovered by Max Wolf, at Heidelberg, on Sep 
tember 17, and independently, with the spectro- 
scope, by Copeland, at Dun Echt, on September 22. 
The last observation appears to have been by Young, at Princeton, on 
April 6, 1885. This comet, like the preceding, was moving in an ellipse 
of short period (6f years), and one of the most interesting facts in con- 
nectiou with it was the near approach (about 8,000,000 miles) that it 
must have made to Juijiter in May, 1875. It seems not at all improb- 
able that from the perturbations experienced at that time, it was brought 
into its present orbit. Krueger has pointed out that at the returns (con- 
sistent with a period of 6| years) in 1871 and 1878 the comet was unfa- 
vorably situated for observation. In 1864 and again in 1891 the situ- 
ation is favorable, if we can suppose that it follows the same path as 
now. During the whole period of its visibility the comet was an insig- 
nificant object physically. The spectrum as observed at Mce was con- 
tinuous, with the three cometary bands. Perihelion was passed on No- 
vember 17. 

Comets of 1885. — During the year 1885 seven comets have been under 
observation ; two were discovered by Barnard, two by Brooks, and one 
by Fabry, a student at the Paris Observatory. Two of the known pe- 
riodic comets, Encke's and Tuttle's, were expected to return this year 
and both were found. Two other periodic comets, Tempel's 1867 II, 
and Tempel-Swift 1869 III, were also expected, and were carefully 
looked for; but they were unfavorably situated, and seem to have 
passed unobserved. A suspicious object, thought to have been Tempel's 
comet 1867 II, was observed at Geneva in March, but its identity was 
not fully established. 

H. Mis. 15 25 



386 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



Comet 1885 I : 
=Cottiet'd 1884. 
=Eiicke'8 Comet. 



Comet 1885 II : 
= Comet a 1885. 
= Barnard's Comet 



Eucke's comet, at this its twenty-third return, was 
found by Tempel, at Arcetri, on December 13, 1884, 
close to the place given by Backluud's ephemeris — a 
faint nebulous mass without any defined nucleus. By the 1st of Febru- 
ary a condensation, situated a little eccentrically, as in 1881, was seen, 
and by the middlo of February the faint trace of a tail was visible. 
Perihelion occurred on March 7. The comet showed quite a bright 
banded spectrum, while the continuous spectrum of the nucleus was 
made out only with considerable difficulty. 

A telegram was received on July 9, at Harvard 
College observatory, from Prof. L. Swift, of 
Eochester, announcing the discovery of a comet by 
Prof. E. E. Barnard on the evening of July 7, at Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, Tenn. The position given was identical with a nebula, No. 
4301, of HernclieVs General Catalogue, and the announcement dispatches 
were delayed until the fact of the non-identity was established. The 
comet was seen at Cambridge on the night of July 9. On the 11th 
of July, as observed by Charlois, at Mce, it consisted of a nucleus 
of the 105 magnitude, surrounded by a faint, irregular nebulosity 
about l'*5 in diameter. Professor Young, observing with the ii3- 
inch refractor at Princeton, describes the comet during July as about 
three quarters of a minute of arc in diameter, somewhat elongated, 
and much condensed in the center, though Avithout any true stellar 
nucleus; no structure of jets or envelopes could be made out. There 
was, however, a faint, slightly fan-shaped tail from 2'-5 to 4' long, di- 
rected at a position angle of about 35°. Professor Young found the 
spectrum almost continuous, the usual cometary bands being visible 
only as three slight intensifications of brightness upon the uniform 
background. A similar spectrum was observed at Nice. The comet 
appears to have been seen as late as September 2. Several sets of ele- 
ments have been computed; the peculiarity of the orbit, its great peri- 
helion distance, being brought out by all. The perihelion distance, (2'5) 
is greater than in the case of any other comet hitherto computed, except- 
ing the extraordinary one of 1729, which did not approach the sun within 
four times the earth's mean distance. A conjecture having been ex- 
pressed by Faye and Krueger that the orbit might be elliptic, Dr. Lamp 
computed elli^jtic element, and found a period of eighty-seven hundred 
years, He remarks, however, that owing to the uncertainty in the single 
observations employed, his results can hardly be considered as decisive, 
and the orbit may yet turn out parabolic. The comet passed perihelion 
in the early part of August, the several orbits thus far computed ranging 
in this element from August 1 to 9. 

Discovered by W. K. Brooks, of Phelps, N. Y., 
on August 31, 1885, and also, independently, by 
A. A. Common, at Ealing, on September 4. Pro- 



Comet 1885 III ; 
= Comet c 1885. 
= Brooks's Comet, 



fessor Pickering, who obtained the first accurate position, Septem- 



ASTRONOMY, 387 

ber 2, describes the comet as of about the 9lh magnitude, with circular 
nebulosity 2' in diameter, some central condensation, and no tail. It 
changed very little from this during the few weeks it was visible. 
According to Dr. H. Oppenheim's orbit, perihelion was passed on 
August 10, and the comet steadily decreased in brightness from the 
time of discovery. The nearest approach to the earth seems to have 
been about September 25. 

Comet 1885 IV : This comet, originally discovered by M^chain in 
= Comet 6 1885. 1790, and rediscovered by Tuttle in 1858, was found 
= Tattle's Comet, ^t this return by Perrotin and Oharlois at the Nice 
= c 1 18'8 1 Observatory on August 8, and was observed on each 
= Comet 1871 III. of the following days to August 13, by Oharlois. 

Owing to the faiutness of the comet and its slight 

elevation above the eastern horizon at sunrise, observation was possi- 
ble for only ten or fifteen minutes. M. Oharlois describes the comet 
as a white spot, about 2' in diameter, without any central con- 
densation. On August 10, with exceptionally good atmospheric condi- 
tions, he thought the nebulosity was elongated in the direction of the 
meridian. 

Herr Eahts, of Koenigsberg, has taken up the work of Tischler, and 
has deduced an orbit from the observations of 1853 and 1871-'72, with 
perturbations by Mercury, Venus, the Earth, Mars, JujHter, Saturn, 
and Uranus, to July 11, 1885. He obtains a period of revolution of 
13-76 years, with perihelion passage on September 11, 1885. 
Comet 1885 V : Discovered by Brooks on December 26, 1885, or 
=Comet/l885. more than three weeks after the two folio winpf 
.^Brooks's Comet, comets. It was also, independently, discovered by 
Barnard on the evening of December "27, making the third comet 
found by Barnard in 1885, and the second by Brooks. It is described 
as circular, about 3' in diameter, equivalent to a star of the 9th mag- 
nitude, and with a strong, eccentrically placed condensation. The 
provisional elements comj^uted by Chandler and Wendell show that the 
comet is growing fainter, having passed perihelion on o^Tovember 29. 



Comet 1886. .. (Fabry): 
= Comet d 1885. 
= Fabry's Comet. 



Discovered on December 1, 1885, by M. 
Fabry, a student at the Paris Observatory, 
where he had been engaged for about three 
months in a search for new comets, with the equatorial coud^. At the 
time of discovery the comet presented the appearance of a faint round 
nebulosity (12th magnitude) about V in diameter, with a small, central, 
stellar nucleus. On December 9 it was observed to be elongated in the 
position angle of 87°. According to a calculation of its orbit made by 
M. Lebeuf, perihelion passage occurs on April 5, 1886. The distance 
from the Earth decreases till the end of April, when the theoretical 
brightness will be nearly 500 times as great as on the date of dis- 
covery. 



388 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 



Comet 1886. . . (Barnakd) : 
= Comet e 1885. 
= Banard's Comet. 



This coDiet, the second discovered by 
Barnard during the year, was foundin the 
constellation Taurus on December 3, 1885. 
It is described by Tempel, on December 10, as somewhat brighter than 
Fabry's comet, small, about equal to a nebula of class II, with a star- 
like center. Elements and ephemeris thus far published show that the 
comet is increasing in brightness, and that it does not reach perihelion 
till May, 1886. Dr. Opjjenheim's ephemeris places the maximum bril- 
liancy about May 25, nearly 400 times as bright as at discovery; but 
its proximity to the sun at this time will detract considerably from its 
splendor. 

Periodic comets due in 1886. — Of the now somewhat numerous list of 
comets of short period, two will be due at perihelion in the ensuing 
year: (1) The comet Tempel-Swift, or 1869 III, and 1880 IV, which is 
likely to return tinder circumstances that will render observations im- 
practicable, so far at least as a judgment can be formed without actual 
calculation of the perturbations ; (2) Winnecke's comet, last observed 
in 1875, its track in the heavens near the perihelion passage in Decem- 
ber, 1880, not allowing of the comet being seen at that return ; the per- 
turbations may be very sensible during the present revolution ; neglect- 
ing their effect, the mean motion determined by Professor Oppolzer for 
1880 would bring the comet to perihelion again about August 24-5 
- - - The actual orbit of Winnecke's comet approaches very near 
to that of the planet Jupiter in heliocentric longitude 110°, at which 
point the comet arrives seven hundred and twenty days, or 1-97 years, 
before perihelion passage; the distance between the two orbits is then 
less than 0-06 of the earth's mean distance from the sun. 

It is very possible, however, that the comet which may most interest 
astronomers in 1886 will be that observed in 1815, and known as Gi- 
bers' comet, which, according to the elaborate calculations of Dr. Gin- 
zel, will again arrive at perihelion in December, 1886. The most i)rob- 
able date that can be inferred from the observations of 1815, and the 
computation of i)lanetary i)erturbations in the interval, is December 
16, but unfortunately the observations did not suffice to determine the 
mean motion in 1815 with precision, and consequently Ginzel found for 
the limits of the period of revolution 72-33 and 75-68 years; hence the 
comet may reach its perihelion many months earlier or later than the 
date given by calculation. 

Extensive sweeping ephemerides have been i^ublished, and it may 
not be too soon to direct attention to a search for the comet at the be- 
ginning of the next year, or as soon as the region in which its orbit is 
projected at the time can be advantageously examined. {Nature, Octo- 
ber 29, 1885.) 

METEORS, AND THE ZODIACAL LIGHT. 

Meteor shower of Norcmhcr'll^ 1885. — On the evening of November 27 
there was a remarkable shower of meteofs radiating from Andromeda, 



ASTRONOMY. 389 

and presumably counectecl with Bielti's comet, very nearly two revo- 
lutions of which had elapsed since the previous great appearance of 
these bodies in 1872. 

In Europe and Asia the star shower was very remarkable wherever 
the clouds did not prevent its being seen ; in this country it was nearly 
over before sunset, yet in the early evening the meteors were numerous 
enough to attract very general attention. It would also appear that 
showers of meteors were observed from this stream not only on the night 
of November 27, but also at some places on nights preceding and fol- 
lowing. 

An adequate discussion of the observations can only be made after 
all the reports are in. Tolerably complete summaries of the accounts 
thus far published may be found in del et Terre, vol. 6, pp. 451, 491, and 
Sirius, vol. 19, p. 33. 

" It will be very interesting to notice in 1898 how far the brilliancy 
of the display to which we may then look forward will be affected by 
the comparatively slightly altered position in its orbit of the principal 
aggregation of meteors, which would seem to be a little behind what 
would have been the place of the comet." 

The zodiacal light. — In October, 1883, Prof. Arthur Searle presented 
to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences a very valuable paper 
on the zodiacal light, in which he had collected and reduced on a uni- 
form system the evening observations of all the principal observers. 
The principal points then brought out were that in all probability the 
apparent changes in the latitude of the zodiacal light were due mainly, 
if not entirely, to the effect of atmosi)heric absorption, and that the 
method of observation by drawing outlines must be replaced by care- 
ful photometric observations if definite knowledge was to be substi- 
tutedfor the vague information we uowpossess as to the "Gegenschein," 
the " zodiacal bands," &c. ; and Professor Searle concluded with the 
suggestion that the ordinary meteoric theory would gain greatly in 
simplicity by the substitution of meteoric dust scattered generally 
throughout the solar system for the meteoric rings that have been 
usually imagined. Professor Searle has continued his investigations 
in a recent memoir, in which he corrects, for the effect of atmos- 
pheric absorption, Jones's observations of what the latter called the 
" stronger light," at the elongation 60°, whether made in the morning 
or evening. The result of the inquiry is to confirm the view arrived at 
previously, that atmospheric absorption largely affects the apparent 
position of the zodiacal light, and Professor Searle again lays stress on 
the need for photometric observations. Professor Searle concludes 
that, after correcting Cor atmospheric absorption, there seems reason to 
think that the zodiacal light has had, during the present half-century, 
a more northern latitude near the longitude 180° than near the longi- 
tude 0°. He also shows, from a (jareful study ot the distribution of the 



390 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

stars in the Durchmusterung, that upon the meteoric theory of the zo- 
diacal light it is to be expected that a continuous zodiacal band should 
be present; but the question of its actual visibility is complicated by 
the slight maxima of stellar density which are situated along those 
parts of the ecliptic most readily accessible to observation from stations 
in the northern hemisphere. An interesting result is obtained from 
an examination of the elements of the 237 asteroids first discovered, 
from which it would seem that the belt of sky occupied by the projec- 
tions of the orbits of these asteroids "i)resents certain peculiarities 
which correspond to those of the zodiacal light, and suggest the hy- 
pothesis that the light may be partly due to minute objects circulating 
in orbits like those of the smaller planets." (Nature.) 

THE SUN. 

Lmigleyh researches on solar heat — "The results of the work u])on 
wbich Professor Langley has been engaged for the last several years 
have recently been published in a complete form as Volume XV of the 
Professional Papers of the United States Signal Service. No work 
more thoroughly aggressive, more calculated to further the progress of 
science and to render it secure, has been undertaken during late years 
than that which Professor Langley has carried out, chiefly by means 
of his ingenious and useful instrument, the bolometer. - - - The 
first chapter contains the i^reliminary observations made at Allegheny, 
from which Professor Langley deduced the value of the solar constant 
as 2-84 calories, a much larger quantity than that generally accepted 
hitherto. The observations also showed him that, contrary to the gener- 
ally received opinion, absorption occurred in the visible portion of the 
spectrum, particularly in the green and blue, and that it diminished as 
the extreme infra-red was approached, and convinced him that the labor 
and expense involved in repeating the observations at the base and at 
the summit of a lofty mountain would be well repaid by the gain in 
our knowledge. 

" In July, 1881, therefore, Professor Langley started for Mount Whit- 
ney, a lofty eminence in the Sierra Nevada of Southern California, 
over 14,000 feet in height, which seemed to combine all the needed re- 
quirements. The second chapter gives an interesting account of the 
journey to Mount Whitney. Then follow several chapters of results of 
observations and descriptions of the instruments used. Amongst these 
were a water pyrheliometer after Pouillet's model, a mercury pyrhe- 
liometer, two globe actinometers, a 'solar comparator,' and the spectro- 
bolometer. In Chapter xiv the amount of the atmospheric absorption 
is shown to be about 40 per cent., or double that usually supposed. 
Then follow chapters on ' Sky Eadiatiou,' 'Nocturnal Radiation,' &c. 
Chapter xxi gives a general summary of the results; and the most 
probable value of the ' solar constant 'is given as 3 calories. Tliree appen- 
dices follow, on the reduction of psychrometer observations, the deter- 



ASTRONOMY. 391 

mination of wave-lengths in tlie invisible prismatic spectrum, and also 
of the influence of convection currents on thermometer bulbs. The 
work is illustrated by twenty-one plates, mostly the observation curves 
of the different instruments, besides a map of the district of Mount 
Whitney, showing the proposed reservation and a view of the mountain 
camp. 

" The i)rincipal results of Professor Langley's work may perhaps be 
briefly summarized as follows: He has shown that the invisible spec- 
trum beyond the red extends much further than was imagined or be- 
lieved possible ; he has detected cold spaces in this spectrum analogous 
to the dark absorption bands and lines of the visible spectrum, and 
has determined their wave-lengths. He has shown that all the old 
formula for the determination of wave-lengths in the prismatic spectrum 
failed utterly when carried into the infra-red region. The amount of 
absorption exercised by the atmosphere has been proved to have been 
greatly under-estimated ; it is at least double what has been usually 
supposed, and the value of the ' solar constant ' has been increased in 
consequence. Contrary to the theory hitherto universally held. Pro- 
fessor Langley has shown that the infra-red rays do not suffer the most 
absorption, but the visible rays, and especially those in the green and 
blue, the transmissibility steadily increasing towards the extreme infra- 
red. From this it follows that what we call white light is not ' the 
sum of all radiations,' but that remainder of rays which has been filtered 
down to us, and the sun, could we see it as it is, would appeal of a de- 
cided bluish tint. Professor Langley's observations seem also to indi- 
cate that at a certain point far in the infra-red, transmissibility through 
the atmosphere suddenly ceases, and it would seem to follow that the 
earth heat which fails to be radiated away through the atmosphere 
must be lower than we have yet examined in any spectrum. The old 
idea of a ' temperature of space' is rejected, and reasons are given for 
concluding that the heat we receive from celestial bodies, other than 
the sun, is practically nil. Finally, Professor Langley concludes that 
the temperature of the earth under direct sunshine, even though our 
atmosphere were present as now, would probably fall to 200° C. if that 
atmosphere did not possess the quality of selective absorj)tion. To this 
catalogue of results may be added that the volume before us gives 
abundant evidence of the attention and care which Professor Langley 
has given to free his work from every source of error." {Observatory, 
September, 1885, p. 309.) 

We can only refer by title hero to a lecture on " Sunlight and the 
earth's atmosphere," delivered by Professor Langley at the Eoyal In- 
stitute, April 17, 1885, a full report of which has appeared in Nature 
(vol. 32, p. 17, 40), and to his interesting and admirably illustrated 
astronomical articles on "The New Astronomy," in the Century for 
September, October, and December, 1884, and March, 1885. 



392 



SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1885. 



Diameters of the sun and moon as observed icith the Greenwich transit 
circle (W. G. Thackery). — The author considers the values of the diam- 
eters of the sun and moon furnished each year by the result of all the 
observations, and also the values resulting each year from the work of 
the individual observers. The following results were found for the sun, 
with which are given the results obtained by Sir G. B. Airy, in a paper 
entitled "On the Circularity of the Sun" {Monthly Notices, vol. xxii): 



Period. 


No. of 
obsns. 


Hor. Diam, 


No. of 
obsns. 


Vert. Diam. 


Authority. 


1853 to I860 

1861 to 1883 


795 
2,185 


/ II 

82 2-65 
32 2-28 


851 
2,317 


/ // 

32 2-61 
32 2-62 


Airy. 
Thackeray. 





The difference iu the values of the horizontal diameter is rather sur- 
jmsing when compared to the identity of the values of the vertical di- 
ameter ; but the i^ersonal equation must be taken into account in con- 
sidering the observations, the following table showing its importance : 

Tabular errors of the sun^s vertical diameter, according to different observers. 



Observer. 


Tabular 
error. 


No. of 

obsns. 


1 
Dunkin 


-f2-28 
—0-19 
-[-3-13 
-fl-65 
—1-59 
+1-70 
+1-01 
+0-48 
+0-15 


138 


EUis 


269 


J. Carpenter 


191 


Criswick 


347 


Lynn 


149 


Downing , 


203 


Thackeray 


141 


Lewis . 


72 


Hollis ... . 


44 







The observations extend from 1861 to 1883. The error as found by 
one observer often varies with the time. As to the horizontal diameter 
found by the transits of the two limbs, the following results have been 
given by Mr. Dunkin in Vol. xxxv of the Monthly Notices, p. 91, for 
the period 1864 to 1873: 

Tabular errors of the horisontal diameter. 



Observer. 



Dunkin 

Ellis 

Criswick ... 

Lynn 

J. Carpenter 



Tabular 
error. 



+0.H7 
+1.48 
4-0. 31 
+1.05 
+2. 45 



ASTRONOMY. 893 

Mr. Thackeray has also considered the observations of the moon's 
diameter. In this case the personal equation is almost insensible, and 
the correction to the Nautical Almanac is unimportant. 

One result of the preceding- discussion is to show that it would be 
proijer in reducing" incomijlete observations of the sun (observations of 
one limb only) not to adopt a uniform value for the diameter, but to 
employ the observer's own value. {Bull. Astron., August, 1885.) 

List of eclipses. — Dr. Theodore von Oppolzer, of Vienna, announces 
the early publication of a very extended list of the dates of solar and 
lunar eclipses which has been prepared under his direction. There will 
be eight thousand of the former and more than five thousand of the latter 
class of phenomena, and all included between the years 1207 B. c. and 
2161 A. D. In publishing the hours of the day at which the eclipses 
will occur, Dr. Oppolzer will adopt the new reckoning of astronomical 
time recommended by the International Prime Meridian Conference at 
Washington in 1884, thus making this publication the first astronomical 
work of importance in which this method of counting the hours of the 
day is adopted. 

Eclipse of the sun, 18G9, August 7. — The report of observations of the 
total eclipse of the sun of August 7, 1869, made by parties under the 
direction of Prof J. H. C. Coffin, superintendent of the American Ephe- 
meris and I^fautical Almanac, has been published during the year, the 
delay in the appearance of the volume being due to the ilhiess of Pro- 
fessor Coffin. The results of the work of Professors Young, Gould, Pick- 
ering, Morton, and others have already been known through otber chan- 
nels, but many valuable details are now given for the first time. Ten 
plates accompany the work, among them some excellent engravings 
from the photographs at totality. 

Eclipse of the sun, 1885, March 16. — This was visible as a partial eclipse 
throughout the United States, and as an "annular "eclipse in the north- 
western part; the annulus describing a path about 75 miles wide, across 
Montana, Idaho, and the northwestern part of California. 

A circular was sent out by the Superintendent of the Naval Observa- 
tory stating that time signals would be sent to observers along this line, 
and requesting that observations of the beginning and ending of the 
eclipse and of the annular phase should be transmitted to the observa- 
tory. Reports were received from sixteen observers, and many of these 
reports, together with an account of observations made at the Xaval 
Observatory, embracing observations of contact, observations made with 
the transit instrument and transit circle, and results from photographs 
made with the transit of Venus photo-hebograph, are published as Ap- 
endix n to the Washington observations for 1882. 

Observations of contact were made by Professor Peters at Clinton, 
and photogra])hs were taken at the Chicago and Lick Observatories. 
Mr. Charles H. Rockwell observed the annular phase from Delta, Cal. 



394 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

JEclipse of the sun, 1885, September 9. — The track of the line of total 
eclipse lay almost wholly iu the South Pacific Ocean, the only land on 
which the total phase was observable being the shores of Cook's Straits, 
New Zealand. The duration of totality was about two minutes at the 
l)oint most favorably located. " It would appear that no central eclipse 
has traversed these islands during the present century; an examina- 
tion of the various ephemerides points to the annular eclipse of Decem- 
ber 29, 1796, as the last which was there central. An annular, though 
nearly total, eclipse will take place near the north extremity of the North 
Island on January 3, 1927, while on May 30, 1965, when the sun is 
barely risen to an altitude of 5°, he will be totally eclipsed on the east 
coast of the North Island, near its north extremity, for about 2'" 20^." 

From the reports we have seen it would appear that many of the 
parties which were organized for the purpose of observing the expected 
phenomena were seriously interfered with by bad weather. At Taho- 
raite, a point well within the belt of totality but some 40 miles north 
of the central line, Mr. Graydon succeeded in obtaining five sketches 
during totality ; these sketches show five or six long rays (besides a large 
number of shorter ones) projecting from the sun's limb, the longest ray 
being some two or three diameters of that body in length. A dark rift 
was observed in the corona, and near this rift a red flame was noticed 
by some of the bystanders to shoot out just before the end of totality. 
Photographs were obtained at Blenheim, at Masterton and at Nelson ; 
and other observations were made at Wellington, Dryertown, and Pal- 
merstou. . 

Eclipse of the sun, 1886, August 28-29*.— The eclipse of August 28-29, 
3886, will be total only in the torrid zone, and the path of the total 
phase will fall mainly in the open Atlantic Ocean, but at Benguela, on 
the western coast of South Africa, it will be observable at about 3 
o'clock of local time in the afternoon. It will be remembered that this 
eclipse is of rather more than ordinary interest on account of the long 
duration of totality, 4™ 41^, near Benguela. Another interesting circum- 
stance has been noticed by Dr. Ilerz, of Vienna, in the fact that at 
totality two stars, 47 p Leonis and 49 Leonis, are close to the sun, the 
latter within the corona. It is suggested that by means of measure- 
ments upon these two stars, something may be learned in regard to the 
refracting power of this peculiar atmosphere of the sun. A bill is now 
pending before Congress, appropriating $10,000 to enable the Secretary 
of the Navy to fit out an expedition to observe this eclipse. 

Transit of Venus.— 'From Professor Harkness'st report to the president 
of the American Transit of Venus Commission, we make the following 
extract : 

" At the date of my last annual report experiments were in progress 
to determine whether or not the heliostat mirrors undergo any change 

* See, also, Account of Prorrress of Asfrononiy, 1883, Smithsonian report, p. 391. 
tSeo Report of Siiperiiiteiidciit U. S. Naval Observatory, 1885, p. 12. 



ASTRONOMY 395 

of curvature when exposed to tlie sun's rays. As that question is of 
vital importance in the theory of the horizontal photo-heliograph, it 
was thought desirable to make the experiments both in the heat of 
summer and in the cold of winter. The work was completed on Feb- 
ruary 23, 1885. 

'" Mr. Eogers is now engaged in writing an account both of the proc- 
esses employed in preparing and developing the dry collodion emulsion 
plates used with the photo-heliographs in observing the transit of Venus 
in December, 1882, and of the experiments which were executed to de- 
termine thebest method of making pyroxyline for that purpose. When- 
ever photographs are required which must sustain the test of accurate 
measurement, the collodion emulsion process offers advantages so great 
that every effort should be put forth to increase its general availability. 
Some of our recent experiments incidentally tend in that direction, and 
although primarily made to clear up obscure points relating to the tran- 
sit of Venus work, it is hoped they will facilitate the application of collo- 
dion emulsion in future operations requiring the use of photo-helio- 
graphs. In these experiments pyroxyline has been made from flax, jute, 
etc., as well as from cotton, which is the form of cellulose commonly 
preferred. 

" It will be remembered that wet bromo-iodide plates, made by the 
bath process, were used with the photo-heliographs in observing the 
transit of Venus in December, 1874, and the question naturally arises 
whether or not the negatives then obtained are strictly comj^arable with 
those made u^jon dry collodion emulsion during the transit of December, 
1882. For the definite settlement of that point recourse was had to 
photographs of the solar spectrum. In June, 1881, a set of such photo- 
graphs was made upon wet bromo-iodide bath plates of the kind used 
in December, 1874, and similar sets are now being made with emulsions 
as nearly as possible in the same condition with respect to age, etc., as 
those actually employed in observing the transit of December, 1882. In 
order to show clearly the progressive action of the solar rayg upon the 
silver salts, each set begins with the shortest exposure capable of pro- 
ducing an easily legible impression, and extends to exposures two or 
tliree hundred times as great. The negatives have not yet been sub- 
jected to critical examination, but the general result seems to be that, 
while marked difierences exist in the action of the spectrum upon the 
two classes of plates with the exposures given in the photo-heliographs, 
the eflective rays are of substantially the same wave-length in both. 
The transit plates of 1874 and 1882 are therefore quite comparable in 
this respect, and there is no reason to apprehend systematic differences 
between them depending upon atmospheric dispersion. The spectrum 
photographs have also established the fact that the emulsion plates have 
a degree of sensitiveness not very different from that of bath wet plates." 

The reduction of observations for time and latitude made at the vari- 
ous United States stations in December, 1882, are now nearly completed 



396 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

and to a considerable extent prepared for printing. It is expected that 
they will form Part iii of the Transit of Venns Reports. No progress 
has been made in the reduction of the photographs during the current 
year, and it is not proposed to take them up again until after all the 
manuscript relating to time, latitude, and longitude has been prepared 
for the printer. 

The work of i)rinting Part ii of the Transit of Venus Reports has re- 
cently been resumed, and will probably be completed at an early date. 
This part will form a volume of about five hundred quarto pages, and 
will contain the records of all observations made at the United States 
stations for observing the transit of 1874, together with the correspond- 
ing reductions and discussions, excepting only those relating to the 
photographs. 

The French photographs of the transit of Venus. — The measurement 
of the seven hundred photographs obtained at the various French sta- 
tions during the transit of Venus, 1882, is about to be commenced. An 
office has been organized for the purpose, the necessary credit has been 
granted, and a measuring instrument belonging to the Meudon Obser- 
vatory and lent by M. Janssen, has been supplied. This will be replaced 
in January, 1886, by a smaller one by the same makers, MM. Brunner 
Fr^res. The measurements, it is expected, will be completed in fifteen 
months. 

Photographic evidence as to the constitution of smi spots. — " M. Janssen, 
remarking on some exquisite photographs of sun spots which he has ob- 
tained during the past year, calls attention to the evidence they supply 
as to the continuation of the granulation of the general solar surface, 
into the spots. A photograph of the great spot of 1885, June 22, for 
example, to which he particularly alludes, shows that the bright region 
which surrounds the penumbrae of large spots has not a different con- 
stitution from that of the photosphere in general, since it is made up in 
like manner of granular elements, usually of a spherical form. The 
marked increase in brightness of such regions the photographs show to 
be due to the granulations being njore thickly clustered, brighter in 
themselves, and arranged on a brighter background. In the penumbra 
the granulations are still distinguishable, but they are less luminous 
and more scattered, leaving dark gaps between the rows of grains, the 
familiar striated appearance of the penumbra being due to the arrange- 
ment of the granulations in ranks and lines, like beads on a thread. 
The grains become in general smaller and duller near the nucleus, w^here 
they seem to dissolve. The same spot presented two very remarkable 
bridges, and a very bright isolated mass of luminous matter which 
united them. This luminous matter and the bridges were also formed 
of granular elements resembling the others. Many other photographs 
have revealed a similar structure in penumbrae and their surroundings, 
so that it is highly probable that 'the luminous matter which forms the 



ASTRONOMY. 397 

solar surface has everywhere the same constitution.'" {Nature^ Feb- 
ruary 4, 1886.) 

Sun-spot maximum. — The exact epoch of the last sun-spot maximum, 
which for some time remained in uncertainty, has been placed by Wolf 
at 1883-9, and his result has been confirmed* by the observations of 
the past year. The previous maximum was well marked at 1870-6 and 
with the 11-year period (more exactly 11-1 years) the next was expected 
at 1881-7 or the beginning- of 1882 ; and in fact in April, 1882, a " false" 
maximum did occur, but with the finally established maximum at 1883-9 
we have a retardation of about two years. The interval from the pre- 
ceding maximum is therefore 13.3 years, and from the preceding mini- 
mum of 1879-0, 4-9 years. It is quite remarkable also that the varia- 
tions of the magnetic needle have shown a similar anomalous fluctua- 
tion. 

The Solar Coronal {a lecture delivered at the Royal Institution, by Dr. 
Huggins, February 20, 1884). — "After mentioning the various hypotheses 
concerning the nature of the corona (a gaseous atmosphere, tine par- 
ticles ejected by the sun and in motion around the sun caused by several 
forces, one of them being perhaps the repulsive force observed in the 
case of comets, a center of meteoric streams, etc.). Dr. Huggins speaks 
of Dr. Hastings's new theory, according to which the corona is not a 
reality but simply a phenomenon caused by diffraction. Without dwell- 
ing upon the proof of its reality furnished by photographs made when 
there was no eclipse, and consequently no intervention of the moon, Mr. 
Huggins finds that the analysis of the spectra of different parts of the 
corona and the peculiar structure seen in the photographs taken during 
eclipses contradict Dr. Hastings's theory. If Dr. Hastings's theory were 
correct the corona would of necessity change during the course of the 
eclipse and the photographs reveal no change. M. Janssen says : ' Les 
formes de la couronne ont 6t6 absolument fixes pendant toute la duree 
de la totality.' 

" The sun is doubtless surrounded by a gaseous atmosphere of a cer- 
tain extent, but there are a number of reasons why the corona should 
not be regarded as a prolongation of this atmosphere. A gas even a 
hundred or a thousand times lighter than hydrogen at the height of the 
corona would, at the sun's surface, be heavier than metals, — a state of 
things which spectroscopic and other observations show cannot be the 
true one. The corona does not show either that rapid condensation 
towards the sun which an atmosphere would show, especially if we take 
into account the effect of perspective in increasing the brightness of 
the lower parts of the corona. Moreover, comets have been known to 
pass through the upper part of the corona without losing either matter 
or velocity. 

* Sur le statistique solaire de l'ann<5e 1885. Compt. Eend. 10-2 : 161. 
t See The Observatory, vol. 8, p. 153. 



398 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

" There can be no doubt that the corona shows us matter existing 
about the sun in the form of a fog, of which we may form some idea by 
imagining the air we breathe very much rarefied but still full of par- 
ticles rendered visible by a sun's ray. The matter of the corona sends 
us three kinds of light : Solar light dispersed by particles of matter, 
either solid or liquid ; light giving a continuous spectrum, showing that 
the solid or liquid particles are incandescent, and light giving spectra 
of brilliant lines, fainter and varying greatly at diiferent parts of the 
corona and at different eclipses, which must be due to the presence of a 
luminous gas. This gas existing between the particles does not form a 
solar atmosphere in the true sense of the word (such an atmosphere has 
already been shown to be impossible), but this gas may be regarded as 
carried along by the particles ; it is due perhaps to the heat of the suu. 

" Comets show characteristics which are not without analogy to those 
of the corona ; in the case of comets we see reproduced on a small scale 
the luminous streams, the rifts and curved rays.* We do not know 
the conditions under which these cometary appearances occur, but the 
generally accepted hypothesis attributes them to electrical action, and 
especially to a repulsive force acting from the sun, and doubtless an 
electrical force, which varies with the surface, and not, like gravity, 
with the mass. A force of this nature could easily overcome the force 
of gravity, and, as we see in the tails of comets, drive very much rare- 
fied matter to immense distances. Such a repulsive force, if electrical in 
its origin, must act between bodies charged with the same kind of elec- 
tricity, and according to this theory the material of which the corona is 
composed and the surface of the sun must be in the same electrical 
state ; a certain permanence of the same electrical state would seem to 
be required by the phenomena of the tails of comets ; but we are quite 
in ignorance on this subject. 

" However this may be, it is quite in conformity with the ideas ex- 
pressed above, that the positions of greatest coronal extension should 
usually correspond with the spot zones where the solar activity is great- 
est. A careful investigation of the structure of the corona leads us to 
think also that the forces to which this complicated and variable struct- 
ure is due have their seat in the sun. Matter repelled by the sun 
would participate in the rotary velocity of the photosphere, and lagging 
behind give rise to curved forms. Moreover, the force of the projection 
and the subsequent electrical repulsion might very well vary in direc- 
tion and not be always strictly radial, and this would help to exi)lain 
the character of the corona. The relative permanency of some of the 
coronal forms during several weeks does not imply that the matter is 
immovable ; flames over the mouths of volcanoes often offer a similar 
appearance. If the forces to which the corona is due reside in the 
sun, the corona ought, of course, to revolve with it 5 but if the corona is 
produced by causes extraneous to the sun, it may be otherwise. 

*See "Comets," Boyal Institution Proceedings, Vol. x, p, 1, 



I 



ASTRONOMY. 399 

" We have seen that the corona inobably consists of an incandescent 
fog, which, at the same time, sends us by reflection the light of the 
photosphere. Now we must remember that there is a great difference 
in the behavior of a gas and of liquid and solid particles in the imme- 
diate vicinity of the sun. A gas need not be greatly heated even when 
near the sun by the radiated energy ; when once heated it would rap- 
idly lose its heat when above the photosphere; but solid and liquid 
particles, whether carried up as such or having become such by con- 
densation, would absorb the sun's heat and ac the distance of the corona 
would reach a temperature but little inferior to that of the photosphere. 
The gas shown by the spectroscope to exist among the incandescent 
matter of the corona may therefore have been carried there as gas or 
may hav^e been in part distilled from the coronal particles under the 
influence of the enormous solar radiations. There would be no discord- 
ance between this theory and the fact of the very different heights 
at which the brilliant lines in the corona have been observed. Gases 
of unequal densities, unequally repelled by a repulsive force varying as 
the surface, would be to a certain degree separated, the highest gas 
being most influenced by the repulsive force, the heaviest being most 
influenced by gravity. The relative proportions at different heights of 
the corona of the gases, whose presence is shown by the spectroscope, 
vary from time to time and depend in part upon the state of activity of 
the photosphere in such a way as to establish a probable <onnection with 
the spectrum of the protuberances. (Captain Abuey and Professor 
Schuster have recently shown that beside the bright lines already 
known, the spectrum of the corona of 1882 gave the group of the ultra- 
violet lines of hydrogen, which are characteristic of the photographic 
spectra of white stars, and other liaes also.) In this view of the corona, 
therefore, we find a new example of such relations as those existing be- 
tween the phenomena of sun spots and magnetic perturbations or au- 
rorae. 

" Many questions are left unconsidered, this among others, whether the 
light emitted by the gaseous part of the corona is due directly to the 
sun's heat or to electrical discharges of the nature of the aurora. Fur- 
ther, what becomes of the coronal matter on the theory which has been 
suggested ? Is it permanently carried away from the sun as the matter 
of the tails of comets is lost to them ? Electric repulsion can continue 
only so long as the repelled particles remain in the same electrical state. 
If the electrical state changes, the rejiulsion must cease, and, gravity no 
longer counteracted, the particle must fall back to the sun. In Mr. 
Wesley's drawings of the corona, especially in those of the eclipse of 
1871, the longer rays or streamers seem not to end but to be lost in the 
fainter parts of the drawing ; but some of the shorter ones seem to turn 
and descend to the sun.* 

* Concerning the nature of the corona consult the papers of Norton, Young, and 
Langley in the American Journal of Science, llie Sun, by Professor Young, andvurioufl 
essays by Mr. R. A. Proctor. 



400 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

" It is difficult for us liviug iu dense air to conceive of the state of at- 
tenuation probably present in the outer parts of the corona. Mr. Orookes 
has shown by experiment that matter reduced to one-millionth part of 
the density of ordinary air is still possessed of a sufficient number of 
molecules to display a perfect corona when under the influence of an 
electric current. In any case we may hope that our present knowledge 
on the subject will be much increased by the daily photographs of the 
corona, which are about to be commenced at the Cai)e by Mr. Eay 
Woods under the direction of Dr. Gill." {Bull. Astron., June, 1885.) 

Professor Young on the solar corona. — In an article on '' Theories re- 
garding the sun's corona," in the North American Review, Professor 
Young expresses "his complete conviction that the corona is mainly 
solar." He points out that the corona sends us three kinds of light, the 
spectroscopic evidence showing that reflected or diffused sunlight is 
present, though not the main constituent of the coronal luminosity, the 
continuous spectrum indicating the presence of incandescent particles, 
solid or liquid, whilst the bright lines show the presence of luminous 
gases. These mingled gases form what has been called the " coronal 
atmosphere," but in it " there are filaments and streamers and other 
forms that are probably not gaseous, but composed of mist and dust ; 
some of them may be of meteoric origin, and some composed of matter 
ejected from the sun, while others perhaps are due to condensation of 
vapors." The analogy of the channels in the tails of comets to the 
coronal rifts, and the evidence comets afford to a repulsive force ex- 
ercised by the sun, strike Professor Young as they do Dr. Huggins : 
"All the luminous phenomena of the corona could be accounted for by 
an atmosphere of a density millions of times below that in any vacuum- 
tube ever constructed." 

Photographing the corona in full sunshine. — Mr. W. H. Pickering, of 
the Institute of Technology, Boston, made a series of attempts during 
the partial eclii)se of March 16, 1885, to obtain a photograph of the 
corona. In this he was quite unsuccessful, for though his plates showed 
several corona-like markings, they were clearly not due to the true 
corona, as they were found in front of the moon as well as on the sun's 
limb. From this Mr. Pickering was evidently led to conclude that the 
results which Dr. Huggins had obtained were probably of a similar 
character, and he expressed as much in a letter to Science. Dr. Huggins 
in reply pointed out that Mr. Pickering's, method was faulty and was 
calculated to produce such false images. The latter, therefore, some- 
what modified his apparatus without, however, altering the two points 
which Dr. Huggins considered most erroneous, viz, the use of an object- 
glass instead of a reflector, and the placing his drop-slit close in front 
of the object-glass instead of in its primary focus. The result has been 
that he has obtained photographs free from false coronae, but showing 
no real ones. At the same time he has made experiments which con- 
vince him that to produce a perceptible image of a coronal rift it is 



ASTRONOMY. 401 

necessary to be able to discriminate between degrees of illumination 
which do not differ from each other by more than one-tenth the intrinsic 
brilliancy of the full moon. He considers that the eye is more able to 
detect small differences of light than a photograph is, and states that 
the moon cannot be photographed in full daylight, even though it may 
be easily seen. His investigations also lead him to think that even in 
the clearest weather the atmospheric illumination is three hundred times 
as bright as it should be for it to be possible to obtain any image of the 
corona. To these points Dr. Huggius has replied in the Observatory 
for iS"ovember. Dr. Huggins states that he has had no difficulty at all 
in photographing the moon in full sunshine, and that the observations 
of Professor Laugley and others, of Mercury and Venus, which have 
been seen as black disks before they reach the sun, proves that the 
corona must have a sensible brightness as compared with the atmos- 
pheric illumination. 

He also j)oints out that Mr. Pickering fails to obtain anj' trace on his 
photographs even of the detects of his own instrument. Dr. Huggins 
declines further discussion, preferring to wait the result of the work now 
being carried on by Mr. Ray Woods at the Cape Observatory. Mr. Pick- 
ering replies in Science for October 23, admitting the possibility of pho- 
tographing the moon in full sunshine, but contending that these very 
photographs of the moon supply an additional proof of his opinion that 
the light of the atmosphere near the sun is more than three hundred 
times too intense for it to be possible to obtain a photograph of the 
corona, since the skylight near the sun was fifty times as bright as 
that near the moon, and coronal photographs to be of any use should 
be able to record differences of illumination of only one-tenth the bright- 
ness of the full moon. 

He explains the visibility of Venus and Mercury as being caused by 
the refraction of the sun's light through their atmospheres, the black 
disk being thus surrounded by a narrow luminous ring. {Nature.) 

Remarlcable solar prominences. * — On the 26th of June, 1885, a remark- 
able prominence was noticed upon the eastern limb of the sun by M. 
Trouvelot, of theMeudon Observatory. Its measured height was about 
10'-5, or about a third of the sun's diameter, but it i)robably extended 
somewhat further. At a point on the sun's limb diametrically oppo- 
site, another immense prominence was seen nearly equal in height 
to the first. A somewhat similar phenomenon — two opposite promi- 
nences — had been observed on November 22, 1884. 

On August 16, 1885, at 9^ 25™, M. Trouvelot observed a brilliant 
prominence 4' in height, which by 11^^ 20"' had increased to 9' 27". With 
the increase in height, it diminished rapidly in brightness, and at 11'' 22"' 
had completely disapj)eared. 

Peculiar i)rominences were also remarked by M. Kicco, of the Palermo 
Observatory, September 16-19, and by M. Trouvelot on September 27. 

^L' Astronomic, 4 : 441-7. 
H. Mis. 15 26 



402 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Rowland^ s photograph of the normal solar spectrum. — This map has been 
made by Professor Eowland of the Johns Hopkins University, with one 
of his concave gratings of 21^ feet radius of curvature and 6 inches di- 
ameter, and is now complete from wave-length 3680 to 5790 ; the portion 
above 3680 to the extremity of the ultra-violet, wave-length about 3100, 
is nearly ready. Negatives have also been prepared down to and includ- 
ign B, and it is possible they may be prepared for publication ; a scale of 
wave-lengths has been added. " The error in the wave-length at no 
part exceeds gowo of the whole, and is generally caused by a slight 
displacement of the scale, which is easily corrected. The wave-lengths 
of more than 200 lines in the spectrum have been accurately determined 
to about 5ooWd P^^t, and these can serve as standards to correct any 
small error of the scale. - - - The 1474 line is widely double, as 
also 63 and 64, while U is given so nearly double as to be recognized as 
such by all persons familiar with sj)ectrum observation. Above the 
green the superiority increases very quickly, so that at S we have 120 
lines between H and K, while the original negatives show 150 lines. 
The photographs show more at this point than the excellent map of 
Lockyer of this region." 

THE PLANETS. 

Intra-mercurial planet. — The report* of a committee of the Na- 
tional Academy of Sciences, to which was referred the question of the 
expediency of fitting out an expedition to the west coast of Africa for 
the purpose of observing the total eclipse of the sun on August 28-29, 
1886, contains the following remarks in regard to the hypothetical planet 
revolving within the orbit of Mercury : " In addition to the observation 
of the sun itself, and the luminous phenomena attending it, it is desir- 
able to obtain photographic maps of all the surrounding region to the 
distance of at least ten or fifteen degrees from the sun, for the purpose 
of finally setting at rest the still mooted question of an intra-mercurial 
planet. It is true that the astronomical world is at present disposed 
generally to discredit the existence of such a body, yet the evidence on 
the subject up to this time is mainly negative, as it must always con- 
tinue to be so long as it depends upon direct vision. In a photographic 
map, taken during total eclipse of the sun, of the whole region within 
which such a planet must necessarily be confined, the object, if present, 
must present itself, and could not fail to be recognized. But for photo- 
graphic operations of this class, lenses of wide angle must be specially 
prepared, differing essentially in character from those which are em- 
ployed to take impressions of the eclipse." 

A search for the " supposititious Vulcan" was again made by Mr. T. 
W. Backhouse, of Sunderland, England, in March and April, 1885— the 
period during which a transit is possible, according to Leverrier — but 

* Senate Ex. Doc. No. 67, Forty-ninth Congress, first session. 



ASTRONOMY. ' 403 

with no positive result. Mr. Backhouse says : " I consider the question 
of the existence of Vulcan can only be settled by continued and system- 
atic watching for its appearance in transit, as at the time of an eclipse 
of the sun it may be too near that luminary to be visible." 

Tlie Earth : Yariahility of terrestrial latitudes. — The question of the 
variability of terrestrial latitudes was brought anew to the attention of 
astroi'omers by the International Geodetic Conference at Eome iu Oc- 
tober, 1883. A plan for settling the question by observation was pro- 
posed by M. Fergola, an Italian astronomer, which was, essentially, 
that a careful series of observations should be made with prime vertical 
instrument, by two co-operating observatories differing but little in 
latitude though, perhaps, considerably in longitude. The same list of 
stars was to be used at each pair of such stations. By repeating these 
observations after an interval of fifty years or more, the question of the 
variability of latitudes would be subjected to a severe test. Theoret- 
ically, periodical changes of latitude may occur, and an examination of 
observations made at a number of JTorthern observatories during the 
past seventy-five years — Konigsberg, Milan, Naples, Paris, Pulkowa, 
and Washington — appears to confirm the existence of such changes. 
At Pulkowa, which furnishes the most careful series of observations, a 
diminution of the latitude of 0"'23, equivalent to about 23 feet, is indi- 
cated between the years 1843 and 1872 ,• but in all these cases the var- 
iations are small, and we must be extremely cautious in ascribing them 
to actual changes of latitude. A recent and very complete discussion 
of the latitude of the Greenwich Observatory by Mr. Christie gives no 
evidence of a secular change of latitude, and a later determination of 
the latitude of the Washington Observatory (in 1883) also furnishes no 
proof of a change. 

Profi Asaph Hall, in a paper* read before the Philosophical Society 
of Washington, February 28, 1884, has given a discussion of the obser- 
vations tabulated by M. Fergola. His conclusion is that " observations 
do not prove that latitudes are variable, and the evidence points rather 
to other sources of small changes that may depend on the seasons. 
Perhaps some of these may arise from the tables of refraction which 
are in common use, and which are assumed to fit the whole earth." 

Some preliminary steps have been taken towards putting Fergola's 
plan in operation at the observatories of Lisbon and Washington 
(the difference of latitude being 11' 7"), but we believe no observations 
have actually been made yet. 

Efect on the eartli's motion produced by small bodies passing near it. — 
Professor Newton points outt that the space through which the earth 
travels is traversed also by small bodies, or meteoroids. The impact of 
these bodies upon the earth, and the consequent increase of the earth's 
mass, have their effect upon tlie earth's motions, both of rotation and 

*Amer. J. ScL, -i s. vol. 29, p. •-J-.i^-S? ; also Ohservatorii 8, p. 113-17. 
t.4wier. J. (Sot., December, lbti5, 3 s., vol. 30, p. 410-17. 



404 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 

revolution, and hence upon the lengths of the day and year. Professor 
Oi)polzer(A.stroM.,iV^a67/r., 2573) has discussed the amount of these actions, 
and has computed the density which the meteoroid matter must have in 
order to produce the observed and unexplained acceleiatiou of the moon's 
mean motion. But a body that passes near to the earth has also an 
action of like character due to the attraction of gravitation alone, and 
Professor Newton proceeds to calcuhite its amount. The conclusion at 
whicb he arrives is that the effect upon the earth's motion of the meteors 
that come into the earth's atmosphere exceeds at least one hundred fold 
that of the meteors that pass by without impact. {Observatory.) 

Betermination of longitudes in South America. — According to Science 
(vol. v, ]). 151), Commander Davis has just completed his important 
telegraphic determinations of longitude on the western coast of South 
America. The great chain connecting Washington with different points 
in South America, and then extending through Saint Vincent, Madeira, 
Lisbon and Greenwich, is now closed with but an insignificant discrep- 
anc3^ 

The proposed change in the beginning of the astronomical day. — No gen- 
eral agreement has been reached by astronomers upon the sixth resolu- 
tion of the Washington Meridian Conference, which recommends that 
the astronomical and nautical days be arranged everywhere to begin at 
mean midnight. The matter was brought up at the Geneva meeting of 
the Astronomische Gesdhchaft in 1885. (See Vrtljhrschr., 20, p. 227- 
31.) Struve, FoUe, and Pechiile seemed to be the only members present 
in favor of the change, while Newcomb, Weiss, Krueger, Duuer, Auwers, 
Tietjen, and Safarik spoke in opposition to it. Mr. Downing, of the 
Greenwich Observatory, says (iVa,/?f re, 32 : 353), " - - - and judging 
from the individual expressions of opini(m that have been published, 
I should imagine that here, as at Geneva, the majority of real workers 
in our science (with the j>robable exception of those engaged in solar 
work) would be opposed to the proposed change." 

In the United States, official action has been taken by the Secretary of 
the Navy, referring the question to the National Academy. The report 
(Senate Ex. Doc. No. 67, Forty-ninth Congress, first session) of a com- 
mittee of that body consisting of Pres. F. A. P. Barnard, Profs. A. Gra- 
ham Bell, J. D. Dana, S. P. Langley, Col. Theodore Lyman, Profs. E. C. 
Pickering, and C. A, Young says : " The committee regard favorably the 
proposition of the meridian conference on this snbject, and recommend 
that the change should be made as soon as sufficient concert of action 
can be secured among the leading astronomers and astronomical estab- 
lishments of the civilized world — in 1890, if practicable; if not, in 1900." 

It would seem to be incumbent on thoise astronomers who have ex- 
pressed themselves in favor of the proposed change, and of the conse- 
quent interruption of astronomical chronology, to justify strongly their 
position. It is not quite clear that this has been done, for while many 
reasons are given against the change, almost the only argument in its 



ASTRONOMY. 405 

favor (besides tbat of convenience in solar work) is, that there will be 
established a certain uniformity of time-reckoning between astronomers 
and the world at large. 

In addition to the references given above, we should call attention to 
the following papers upon this important question : 

Ball (R. S.)- Proposed chaii^^c- iu tbo iistronoiiiical day. Observalory, 9 : 100. 

Fleming (S.). Uuiversal or cosmic time. Toronto [1H8.')]. 

FoERSTEU (W.). Ueber die vors der confercuz zu Washiugtou proponirte Veriindening 
des astrouomiscbeu Tagesaufanj^es. Aslron. Xachr. 111:315-8. 

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy trausmitting communicatious couceruiug the 
])roposed cliaugo in the time for beginning the astronomical day [from the super- 
intendent of the Naval Observatory, the superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, 
and various American astronomers]. Senate Ex. Doc. No. 78, Forty-eighth Con- 
gress, second session. 

Newcomb (S.). On the proposed change of the astronomical day. Month. Not. Foi/. 
Astron. Soc. , 4"> : 12ii. 

VON Oppolzer (Th.) On the proposed change of the astronomical day. Month. Not. 
Hoy. Astron. Soc, 45 : 295-8. 

Struve (O.). Die Beschlusse der Washington er Meridiancouferenz. St. Petersburg, 
1885. 27 p. 8vo. 

'■^ Slcy-glou's : Certain phenomena in meteorological optics that have oc- 
curred since the close of the year 1883. Hypothesis concerning the cause 
and origin of these phenomena. — The immediate cause of the "red sun- 
sets" seems to be the existence at a very great height in the atmosphere' 
of a cloud, or rather a light mist, composed of very fine particles. This 
hypothesis would explain the twilight phenomena when the sun was 18^ 
or 20° below the horizon. We need not suppose these particles to have 
had a greater altitude than 60 or 70 kilometers during the first of these 
apparitions. 

" The red color of these lights corresponds very well with the absorp- 
tive power of the atmosphere which physicists observe in the sun's 
radiations at different altitudes and astronomers iu the ruddy tint pre- 
sented by the moon's disk in total eclipses ;* the distance traversed 
through the atmosphere by the sun's rays before reaching this cloud 
explains sufiiciently the intensity of the coloring. 

" The solar corona and the anti-solar aureole could be easily explained 
with this hypothesis if the particles held in suspension in the atmos- 
phere are supposed to offer a sensibly constant mean diameter, as the 
theoretical conditions for diffraction coronas would then be present. 

" The next question is, What is the origin of these particles suspended 
iu the atmosphere? The reply to this question is quite independent of 
the explanation of the phenomena of meteorological optics presented 
above. There have been a number of hypotheses on this subject. The 
first, seeking an explanation iu the ordinary domain of meteorological 



" The total eclipse of the moon October 4, 1884, did not show this red color in the 
usual degree. This is regarded by some as a i^roof of the t'xisteuce of these clouds of 
particles, the higher regions of the atmosphere being rendered less transparent by 
their presence. 



406 ^ SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

influences, gives as the origin of these particles the formation of very- 
minute ice crystals like those which appear to constitute the cirrus clouds. 
The trouble with this very simple hypotheses is that so many additional 
hypotheses are required to sustain it. For some hypothesis must be 
made as to the cause of the production of frozen clouds at an unusual 
altitude. Some reason must be assigned for their permanence during 
months and even years. And the question why optical i)henomena, 
halos, mock suns, &c., which accompany the ordinary existence of ice 
crystals in the atmosphere do not appear permanently must be answered. 

"Although it might be possible to find explanations for all these 
points of difficulty, it is evident that the proposed hypothesis is simple 
in appearance only, and that it meets with difficulties rather than with 
confirmations in the observed facts. 

" The second hypothesis attributes to these particles a cosmic origin, 
that is to say, the same origin as is assigned to meteors ; the earth is 
supposed to have passed in its orbital motion through a cloud of small 
particles, revolving, like herself, about the sun, and to have drawn after 
her all the particles within her sphere of attraction. This hypothesis 
seems at first thought a very satisfactory one ; the twilight lights, at 
first so brilliant, have been growing fainter. This accords with the idea 
that the particles have come from some external source, and have by 
degrees fallen, in the order of their size, to the earth's surface. The 
exj)lanation appears all the more plausible since true rains of dust have 
been observed in different countries. IsTordenskjold made a chemical 
examination of a sample of this dust, collected in Sweden, and found 
it to contain iron and nickel, elements that are present in meteorites. 
Still, this argument is not decisive, for rains of dust, whose origin is 
certainly terrestrial, have often been observed ; as, for example, the dry 
fogs, well known in southern Europe, composed of mineral dust brought 
by the wind across the Mediterranean from the desert of Sahara. This 
dust has been collected at sea by sailors, and also on the coasts, and 
has been found to contain silica, feldspar, and mica, elements of the 
sands of the African desert. 

" Volcanic ashes have been sometimes found in Norway, coming from 
the eruptions of Iceland volcanoes ; the microscope shows these to con- 
tain fragments of pumice and even crystals of i)yroxene. The cosmic 
origin of these particles must therefore be sustained by more direct 
proofs, if it is to be accepted. 

" The third hypothesis connects the diffusion of these clouds of par- 
ticles with the frightful cataclysm at Java, when 50,000 persons lost 
their lives through the explosion of Krakatoa. Nearly all the arguments 
employed by the partisans of the cosmic origin apply with equal force 
to this volcanic origin. It explains why the first twilight manifestations 
appeared directly after the eruption at Java, nothing of the kind having 
been observed before; it explains, moreover, the progressive march of 
the apparition of these lights about the center of explosion. This pro- 



ASTRONOMY. 407 

gressive marcb renders the cosmic origin of these particles quite im- 
probable, for in case of a cosmic origin there seems to be no reason why 
the phenomenon should not appear nearly simultaneously at all i)oints 
on the earth's surface. Those regions on the Indian Ocean forming the 
trajectory of a cyclone show in a convincing manner that the ashes of 
the Java volcano, caught up by the ordinary winds of that quarter, are 
the cause of the extraordinary sunsets in question, 

" The objection may be raised that the height of these particles is 
very great in comparison to the height to which the smoke of our Euro- 
pean volcanoes rises; but, after reading M, Verbeck's report, these 
• objections disappear before the greatness of this volcanic convulsion. 
A quantity of matter, whose volume was estimated at 150 cubic kilo- 
meters, was seen projected 18 or 20 kilometers above the crater. When 
we think that the gaseous matter that escaped at the same time must 
represent a volume some hundreds of times as great, we cease to be 
astonished at the thought of the diffuse dust reaching an altitude of 70 
or 80 kilometers. As to the suspension of these particles in the air, it 
at least does not contradict what we know of the laws of the air's vis- 
cosity, nor of the action of winds, heat, and atmospheric electricity. 

"A more detailed discussion of the documents published on the sub- 
ject of this frightful explosion would carry us beyond the scope of this 
simple article ; enough has been said to show that these optical phe- 
nomena, of which our atmosphere has been for some eighteen months 
and is still the scene, may be referred with great probability if not cer- 
tainty to a volcanic origin." (Cornu, in Bull. Astron., April, 1885.) 

The Moon : Lunar heat. — At the Albany meeting of the National 
Academy of Sciences in October, 1885, Professor Langley read a paper 
"On the temperature of the surface of the moon." 

Attempts were made in the last century by several i)hysicists to ob- 
tain indications of heat from the moon, but without success. Professor 
Forbes, in 1885, employed a lens by which the lunar heat was concen- 
trated about 6,000 times, but obtained no certain evidence of heat, be- 
ing led only to the negative conclusion, that the warming effect of the 
full moon on the surface of the earth would, at any rate, not exceed 
30WO0 of a degree, Centigrade. Tlie first satisfactory evidence of actual 
heat was obtained by Melloui in 1846, who, with a polyzonal burning 
lens, one meter in aperture, and by the aid of^ the newly invented ther- 
mopyle, in the clear air of Vesuvius, after due precaution against in- 
strumental error, succeeded in obtaining decisive indications of heat, 
although the amount was all but immeasurably sinall. Later observers 
were also able to do little more than detect evidence of the existence of 
lunar heat, and the first attainments of anything like quantitative 
measurement thereof, was reserved for Lord Eosse, whose experiments 
are recorded in the proceedings of the Eoyal Society, commencing in 
1869. The paper now before us details the experiments by Professor 
Langley, at the Allegheny Observatory, with the instrument invented 



408 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

about five years ago, and denominated the bolometer. The first of these 
were made on the evening of November 12, 1880, chiefly with the view of 
testing its sensitiveness, concentrating the hmar rays upon its face by 
means of the 13-inch equatorial of the observatory, and a smaller convex 
lens near its focus, when an average deflection of forty-two divisions of the 
galvanometer scale was obtained. In June, 1883, the bolometer and its 
adjuncts, having been much improved in the interval, measurements of the 
lunar heat were resumed with apparatus better adapted to the purpose. 
The heat radiated from the lunar surface may consist of three kinds in 
different proportions : (1) Heat coming from the interior of the moon, 
which will not vary with the phase ; (2) heat which falls from the sun on 
the moon's surface, and is at once reflected regularly and iriegularly ; 
(3) heat which, falling from the sun on the moon's surface, is absorbed, 
raises the temperature of the surface, and is afterwards radiated as heat 
of low refrangibility. The general conclusion of Professor Langley's ob- 
servations is thus expressed by himself. "While we have found abun- 
dant evidence of heat from the moon, every method we have tried, or 
that has been tried by others, for determining the character of this 
heat appears to us inconclusive; and without questioning that the 
moon radiates heat earthward from its soil, we have not yet found any 
experimental means of discriminating with such certainty between this 
and reflected heat that it is not open to misinterpretation. Whether 
we do so or not in the future will probably depend on our ability to 
measure by some process which will inform us directly of the wave- 
lengths of the heat observed." Combined with his experiments on solar 
radiation, Professor Langley's investigations seem to })oint to the prob- 
ability of a gaseous envelope to the moon, too small to make its presence 
known in ordinary astronomical observations ; and it is well known that 
Mr. Neison has advocated this view from other considerations in his 
great work on the moon. (Athenceum.) 

Eclipse of the onoon, 1884, October 4. — In spite of the very unfavorable 
atmospheric conditions in Central Europe, nearly forty observatories 
participated in the observation of this eclipse and were able to furnish 
valuable material, which will be made the subject of a special publica- 
tion when the iiositions of all the occulted stars shall have been deter- 
mined with the necessary precision. While awaiting the termination 
of this great piece of work, Professor Struve gives a succinct resura6 of 
the results due to the co-operation of so many workers in the Astro- 
nomische Nachrichten, IsTos. 2640-46. 

Mars : The rotation period of Mars. — The seventh volume of the An- 
nalfi of the Leyden Observatory contains a very thorough and painstak- 
ing investigation by Professor Bakhuyzen of the rotation period of the 
planet Mars. In ijrevious determinations one of two courses has usually 
been adopted, either to compare drawings of Huygens or Elooke with 
the most recent observations attainable, or to discuss some modern 
series which seemed to promise to compensate for its restricted range 



ASTRONOMY. 409 

by its greater accuracy. Professor Balvliu.yzen bas, however, endeav- 
ored to utilize the entire mass of observations at his disposal, so as to 
avoid the sources of error to which the other methods are liable, and 
he possesses a great advantage over earlier investigators, in having ac- 
cess, not only to the numerous observations made in 1877 and 1879, but 
also to the great series of more than 200 drawings which Schroeter had 
prepared for his projected '' Areographischen Beitriige," and which be- 
coming the property of the University of Leyden in 1876, was edited 
and published by Professor Bakhuyzen in 1881. Professor Bakhuyzen, 
in the reduction of these drawings, has adopted provisionally S(;hf»tpa- 
relli's position for the pole of Mars— E. A. 317° 4G'-0, Deck 53° 25'-4, 
mean equinox of 1833-0— and Proctor's rotation period — 24^ 37"" 22'*-74 — 
and deduces corrections to these elements from a comparison of the re- 
sults obtained by reducing the various observations at his command 
with them. His first step is, from a discussion of the drawings of Kai- 
ser, Lockyer, Lord Kosse, and Dawes, made during the oppositions of 
of 1862 and 1864, to obtain the time of transit on January 1, 1863, of 
his adopted prime meridian over the Martial meridian, which passes 
through the earth's north pole, choosing as his prime meridian the one 
which lies 2° to the east of the center of Miidler's point «, correspond- 
ing almost exactly to Schiaparelli's Fastigmm Aryn, or to Proctor's 
Dawes Forl-ed Bay, he finds the time of transit over the meridian pass- 
ing through the north pole of the earth on January 1, 1863, to be 20'' 
27™ i 40'", Berliu M. T. The areographic longitude of tlie center of 
the Ociilus, the conspicuous circular spot, called by Green the Terhy Sea, 
and by Schiaparelli Lacus Solis, will be, with this prime meridian, 90o-87. 
The second section contains the determination of areographic longitudes 
of ten of the most conspicuous and easily identified markings on the 
surface of Mars as inferred by means of the above elements from the 
drawings of various observers from tlie time of Hooke and Huygens 
up to 1879. For the last-named year only Schiaparelli's observations 
are used,, but for 1877 there is an abundant supply, there being availa- 
ble, besides the observations of Schiaparelli, the drawings of Lohse, 
Green, Dreyer, and Niesten. Beer and Madler's drawings afford mate- 
rial for 1830, Herschel and Schroeter give a very full series from 1777 to 
1803, and Huygens and Hooke supply a few drawings from 1659 to 
1683, from which the longitude of Madler's /, the Kaiser or Hourf/lass 
Sea, Schiaparelli's Syrtis Major, can be inferred. These logitudes are 
discussed in the third section, and a corrected rotation period is ob- 
tained of 241^ 37"' 22«-66 ± 0^-0132, a value exceedingly close to the meau 
of the best previous determinations, which are as follows : 

h. m. 8. 

Kaiser, 1864 '. 24 37 22-6-2 

Kaiser, 1873 '591 

Schmidt, 1873 '57 

Proctor, 1868 .'735 



410 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOE 1885. 

" Proctor's value is clearly too large, a comparison of the mean longi- 
tudes obtained for tbe Kaiser Sea with his period showing a steady de- 
crease for successive oppositions ; the only observations which stand 
conspicuously out from the rest being those of Hooke, upon which he 
had based his determination. There can be no doubt that Professor 
Bakhuyzeu's value is a distinct improvement upon the earlier ones, and 
that its uncertainty lies only in the second place of the decimals. A 
table for computing the time of transit of the prime meridian over that 
meridian of Mars which passes through the earth's north pole, com- 
pletes the memoir. 

Professor Bakhuyzen supplies also a short note as to changes on the 
surface of Mars. The most conspicuous of all the markings on the 
planet's surface has always been the Kaiser Sea ; but the drawings of 
Schroeter and Herschel, as Dr. Terby has already pointed out, exhibit 
a second marking near it, nearly as conspicuous, and very similar in 
shape and size. There can be no doubt that the only modern represent- 
ative of this spot is Huggins Inlet, Schiaparelli's Cyclopum, a narrow 
streak, by no means easily observed, and now entirely unlike the Kaiser 
Sea in shape. Professor Bakhuyzen also considers that there is suffi- 
cient evidence for thinking that Schroeter on several occasions ob- 
served Schiaparelli's Loestrygonum — one of the most difficult objects on 
tbe planet — which could scarcelj^ have been the case had it not been 
much more conspicuous than it has been of late years. These changes. 
Professor Bakhuyzen thinks, lend a high degree of probability to the 
theory that certain districts of Mars are covered by liquid." {Nature, 
November 12, 1885.) 

Jupiter : Mr. W. F. Denning has given in Nature (32 : 31-34, May 
14, 1885) a summary of recent observations of the markings on Jupiter, 
with resulting rotation periods, &c. The great red spot has surprised 
us by its extended duration. As early as 1882 it lost such a consider- 
able depth of tone that obliteration seemed imminent, but it has lingered 
on, until now its existence appears likely to be indefinitely prolonged, 
though under visible conditions far less imposing than at an earlier 
stage. All that at present remains of this remarkable formation is a 
dusky elliptic ring, darkest at the following end, and only well seen 
under good definition. Whether this ellipse is identical with similar 
ai^pearances delineated by Dawes in 1857, Huggins in 1858, and Gled- 
hill in 1869, 1870, and 1871, is involved in doubt, because of the lack of 
intermediate observations. We have no definite information as to what 
became of the various objects alluded to. It is very possible that they 
severally represent an object of considerable permanency. The changes 
such as observed may have been induced by atmospheric interference. 
There is every indication that the dense vaporous envelopes of this 
jilanet are rapidly variable, especially in the zone included by the two 
equatorial belts, and .that the chief features undergo singular fluctua- 



ASTRONOMY. 411 

tioDS, some of which may possibly be of periodical character. The red 
spot has now been followed since 1S78. Daring the last three years it 
has given a rotation period of 9^ 55™ 39-»l, which has been steadily 
maintained throughout each opposition, subject to some minor disturb- 
ances partly due to errors of observation. The first few years of its ex- 
istence it showed an increasing retardation of motion, which lengthened 
the period from 9^ SS"' 34« to that already quoted, but, contemporarily 
with the decay of the spot in 1882, the velocity ceased to slacken, and 
the results accumulated during the past few oppositions, prove it to 
have been equable in a marked degree. 

With reference to the equatorial white spot some striking phenomena 
have been presented during the past winter. Between October 4, 1884, 
and January 13, 1885, its motion appears to have increased in an alarm- 
ing ratio. The spot continued to rush on far in advance of its computed 
places, and all the while exhibited a more brilliant appearance than at 
any preceding epoch since the autumn of 1880, when it first came under 
systematic observation. The form and appearance of the spot have been 
so special as to prevent any confusion in mistaking it for other white 
spots in nearly the same latitude. Between October 4 and January 13, 
1885, the rotation period was 9^ 49"" 51^-95, but the great increase in 
velocity evidently occurred towards the end of ISTovember. Between 
November 21, 1884, and January 13, 1885, the period was only 9^ 49'" 
38«-45, or 34 seconds less than the mean period of 9^ 50" 1S«'25 shown 
by the same spot during the two preceding years. 

" Of the new features presented during the last few months the most 
striking are : " (1) The appearance of large, bright spots indenting 
the north edge of the great northern equatorial belt. (2) The outbreak 
of dark, reddish spots, elongated in longitude, upon the narrow belt 
which became visible in 1882, immediately outlying the great belt. One 
of the most conspicuous of these new spots is about 10,000 miles long. 
(3) The fading away of the west shoulder of the depression north of the 
red spot. 

Professor Young remarked * a peculiar white cloud of oval form par- 
tially covering the " red sj^ot," in March, 1885. This veil was almost 
concentric with the spot, leaving visible only a narrow ring of the red 
substance not more than 1^" to 2" in width. The outline of the 
cloud was for the most part sensibly smooth and regular, but at the 
preceding end there was a little projection nearly cutting across the red 
ring. The white cloud was not brilliant, but was very nearly of the 
same tint as the white belt on which the red spot lies. 

At the Dearborn Observatory, Chicago, the systematic observation 
of the markings on Jupiter has been continued by Professor Hough : 
his results are given in full in his annual report for 1885, which contains 
sketches of the planet on November 7, 1884, and February 27, April 20, 
and May 15, 1885. 

* Ohservatory, vin : 172. 



412 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Saturn : The density ofSafurti's ring. — " M. Poiucar^ supplies a short 
note on the stability of Saturn's ring in the November number of the 
Bulletin Astronomique. Laplace had shown that the ring could only be 
stable if it were divided into several concentric rings revolving at dif- 
ferent speeds. M. Tisserand had confirmed this result, and had recog- 
nized that a single ring must, in order to exist, possess a much higher 
density than the planet, and had calculated the maximum breadth of 
each elementary ring in terms of its density and mean radius. M. 
Poincare has carried this investigation a step further, and shown that 
if the density of a ring be less than a certain amount, it will, under the 
influence of the slightest perturbation, no longer break up into a num- 
ber of narrower rings, but into a great number of satellites, and that 
if the rings be fluid and turn each as a single piece, the density of the 
inner ring must be at least ^, and of the outer ring -j^ that of the planet. 
For a ring of very small satellites (not for a fluid ring, as M. Poincar6 
erroneously states), Maxwell has shown the condition to be that the 
density should not exceed 3^ part of that of Saturn. 

" We do not at present know the actual density of the ring from ob- 
servation sufficiently accurately to make therefrom any certain infer- 
ence as to its physical condition. Bessel's determination from the 
movement of the peri-saturnium of the orbit of Titan gave the reciprocal 
of the mass of the ring as compared with that of Saturn as 118, which 
since the volume of the ring — adopting Bond's value of 40 miles for its 
thickness — is about -j^ that of the planet, would make its density about 
3-4 times greater than the planet's. Bessel's value is, however, clearly 
too great, as he neglected the influence of the equatorial protuberance 
of Saturn on the movement of the apsides. Meyer's determination of 
the secular variation of the line of apsides of Titan, viz <Z;r=1726"-5, 
gives the reciprocal of the mass of the ring as 2G,700, but from all the 
six brighter satellites as 1,960 ; the latter value closely agreeing with 
Tisserand's. It does not, however, seem to have been noticed that even 
the smallest value for the mass considerably exceeds the highest per- 
missible in accordance with Maxwell's result, since that would make 
the mass of the rings only tWoott V^^^ of the planet's, an amount we 
cannot hope to detect with our ijresent resources." [Nature^ January 
28, 1886, vol.33: p. 303.) 

Stir la Variabilite des Anneaux de Saturne. — " Observers have as yet 
discovered no fact that could lead them to suppose the rings of Saturn to 
have as a whole a rotary motion about the planet. Now if such a motion 
exists, it is inconceivable that it should have thus far escaped observa- 
tion. But if these rings do not revolve about the planet, we cannot 
admit that they are solid, liquid, or even gaseous, for it is evident that 
such frail structures could not resist the force exercised upon them by 
the constantly variable attraction in the direction of the satellites. If 
it is true that without rotation the rings could be neither solid, liquid, 
nor gaseous, we must seek some explanation that shall satisfy the neces- 



ASTRONOMY. 413 

sary conditions. The rings must move about the planet without there 
being revoUition i)roperly so called of the rings ; they must be solid 
without being rigid. There seems to be no way of satisfying these con- 
ditions and at the same time easily explaining all the observed plienom 
ena other than the hypothesis conceived by Cassini II and recently de- 
veloped by Proctor and Clerk-Maxwell, which supposes the rings to be 
formed of disconnected material of thousands of little independent bod- 
ies, asteroids, circling around the planet in independent and concentric 
orbits not exactly in the same plane, and completing their revolutions 
in different times. It is evident that all the combinations necessary for 
explaining the observed i)henomena would be possible in such a system; 
these bodies would explain certain phenomena in proportion as they are 
more or less numerous, more or less separated by space, more or less 
rare, &c. If we suppose (what is a very probable thing) that these 
bodies possess different reflective powers, we can conceive of all sorts 
of combinations of light, from the brilliant rings to the dark-gray bands. 
In short this hypothesis appears to be entirely sufficient to explain the 
rings of Saturn and their variability." (Trouvelot in Btill. Astron., 
January, 1885.) 

The orbit of Tethys. — "Herr Karl Bohlin has recently communicated 
to the Swedish Academy of Sciences an interesting discussion of the 
elements of the orbit of Tethys. The observations discussed are those 
of Sir William Herschel, 1789, reduced by Lament; Lamont, 1836; Sir 
J. Herschel, 1835-'37 ; the Bonds, 1848-'52 ; Secchi,18o6; Captain Jacob, 
1857-'58; Newcomb and Holden, 1874-'75, and Meyer, 1880-'81. The 
elements are calculated for each period of observation, without taking 
account of perturbations. Herr Bohlin, then specially treating the 
mean longitude of the epoch, and adopting 190O'69812 as the value of 
the mean motion, draws up tables of the differences between observa- 
tion and calculation, and attemps to represent them by an empirical 
formula. The corrected value of the mean motion is 190°.698169, almost 
identical with that found previously by M. Baillaud. Herr Bohlin finds 
that the annual motion of the peri-saturnium amounts to 33°. M. Bail- 
laud's results and M. Tisserand's investigations had given the value as 
70°. The eccentricity is found as 0-00803 i 0-00077." {Nature, January 
28, 1886.) 

The orbit of lapetus.— An elaborate paper on the orbit of lapetus, the 
outermost satellite of Saturn, by Prof. Asaph Hall, forms Ai)i)endix i, a 
quarto pamphlet of 82 pages, recently published, to the Washington 
Observations for 1882. lapetus was discovered on the 25th of October, 
1671, by Cassini with a telescope of 17 feet focal length. Titan, the 
brightest of the satellites of Saturn, was discovered by Huyghens on the 
25th of March, 1655, and Huyghens was deterred, apparently, from fur- 
ther search by his belief that the solar system was now complete, this 
discovery making the number of satellites equal to the unmber of planets 



414 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOE 1885. 

and making six* of each, which was universally admitted to be a 
" perfect " number. Curious variations iu the brightness of the new 
satellite were noticed by Cassini, and his observations have been con- 
firmed by subsequent observers. The explanation seems to be that op- 
posite sides of the satellite have different reflecting powers, and that 
the satellite, in revolving around Saturn, keeps the same face always 
turned towards the planet. In this latter respect we have an analogous 
case in our moon. Professor Pickering gives the magnitude of lapetus, 
from photometric measures, 11-82, and the mean diameter 486 miles. 

The observations now published were, for the most part, made by Pro- 
fessor Ilall himself with the 26-inch equatorial of the Naval Observa- 
tory, in the years 1875-'84; a few were made by Professor Xewcomb in 
1874. In regard to the examination of the observations for large re- 
siduals, Professor Hall remarks : " In this work no observation has been 
rejected. When observations have been honestly made, I dislike to 
enter on the pix)cess of culling them. By rejecting the large residuals 
the work is made to appear more accurate than it really is, and thus 
we fail to get the right estimate of its quality." 

The adopted mean distance of lapetus from Saturn, determined by two 
different methods of observing, (one by difterences of right ascension and 
decliuatiou and the other by angles of i^osition and distances,) which 
give very accordant results, is 515-"5195 ± 0-"02645; and the time for 
one revolution around the planet seventy-nine days, seven hours, fifty- 
six minutes, forty seconds. From this periodic time of the satellite 
and its mean distance, the mass of Saturn expressed as a fraction of 
the sun's mass is s^-g'i? or about 93*2 times the mass of the earth. Pro- 
fessor Hall's paper concludes with some useful tables of the satellite's 
motion. 

Uranus : The satellites of Uranus. — In Appendix i to the Washington 
Observations for 1881 Prof. Asaph Hall has published the results of 
his investigations of the orbits of Uranns, '•'- Oheron'^'' and " Titowia." 
"The satellites of Uranus were amongst the first objects observed with 
the 20 inch refractor of the Naval Observatory, after it was mounted in 
November. 1873. The first series during the oppositions of 1874 and 
1875 were discussed by Professor Newcomb, with the view to the de- 
termination of the mass of the planet, and the formation of tables of 
the motions of the satellites, which were published in the Washington 
Observations for 1873. Kemarking that as the earth would be nearly 
in the plane of the orbits iu the year 1882, and observations made about 

* Professor Hall has called my attention to a sliglit; error in Grant's rendering of 
Huyghens' remark (History of Physical Astronomy, p. 268). The discoveiy of Titan 
made the number of planets and satellites, each equal to six, and aix (not twelve, as 
Grant puts it) was regarded as a *' perfect" number : •' - - - utrique illo, quern 
perfectum (licimns, nximero continentur - - - " Huygeuii Opera Varia, vol. 2, j). 
530), a perfect number being one that is equal to tha sum of all its divisors including 
vmity. 



ASTRONOMY. 415 

that year would probably afford a good determination of the position 
of this plane, Professor Hall commenced a new series in March, 1881, 
which was continued through the four oppositions to the end of May, 
1884 ; these observations were made with magnifiers of 606 and 888 ; in 
fair conditions of the atmosphere the outer satellites are stated to bo 
easily observable with the Washington instrument. A comparison of 
the measures with Professor Newcomb's tables showed that these tables 
required but siiiall corrections, which were found by equations of con- 
ditions in the usual manner. It should be mentioned that the tables 
were founded mainly upon Profes<3or Neweomb's own measures ; these 
by Professor Hall in the vear 1875 and 1876 are included in his recent 
discussion. 

" For the position of the nodes and inclination of the orbits of the satel- 
lites, Professor Hall finds — 

N=165O'81+0o-0142« 
1= 75O-30-0O-0014* 

t being the number of years from 1883.0. 

" The mean value of the mass of Uranus by the observations of Oberon 
is 22^0 31 ^^^ ^y those of Titania 22F33' ^^1 combining the values with 
their respective weights, the final result is 22F8 2- ^^^® value, though 
somewhat smaller than those previously obtained, Professor Hall thinks, 
is as good as he could obtain with the filar micrometer of the large re- 
fractor, and he does not consider that there would be much gained by a 
continuation of the measures. He mentions that during the oppositions 
of the planet from 1881 to 1884, which were especially favorable for the 
search after new satellites, he made careful examination on several good 
nights along the orbit plane of the known satellites without finding any 
new ones. The orbits of Oberon and Titania appear to be sensibly cir- 
cular." [Nature.) 

Neptune : The satellite of Neptune. — Appendix 11 to the Washington 
Observations for 1881 contains Professor Hall's discussion of the obser- 
vations of this satellite, which were made by Professor Holden and him- 
self with the 26-inch Washington refractor: the discussion includes also 
observations made by Lassell and Marth at Malta in 1863 and 1864. Cor- 
rections (which come out quite small) are given for Newcomb's elements 
of the orbit, published in Appendix i to Washington Observations for 
1873. Comparing the observations of 1881 to 1884 with those of Lassell 
and Marth, the periodic time is found to be 5*876839 mean solar days. 
Lassell's period of the satellit<^, which has been adopted by Xewcomb, 
appears to be slightly erroneous. The question of the eccentricity of 
tjbe orbit may be more advantageously attacked some ten or twenty 
years hence, when the apparent ellipse has become more uearlj' circular, 
and when there will be a better opportunity to determine this element. 



416 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

The values of the mass of Neptune from Hall's measures at different 
oppositions, and from those of Lassell and Marth and of Holden, differ 
sensibly. The mean result from Hall's own observations is X9^2 ? ^® 
remarks that his distances are generally smaller than those of other 
observers, and believes that in order to eliminate the effect of such i)er- 
sonal equation from the determination of the mass of a planet, the only 
way will be to increase the number of observers and to take a mean of 
the results. On favorable nights examinations of the region about 
Neptune were made, but no other satellite was detected. 

Photometric observations of Nepttme. — A series of observations of the 
planet's magnitude was carried on with the meridian photometer at 
Harvard College Observatory from December 16, 1884, to January 21, 
1885 ; the resulting magnitude for mean opposition is 7*63. Professor 
Pickering regards it as improbable that there is any variation in the 
light of Neptune of a strictly periodic character. 

The Trans-Neptunian Planet. — In the twentieth volume of the 
American Journal of Science, page 225 et seq., Prof. D. P. Todd, now of 
Amherst College, gave an account of his search, theoretical and prac- 
tical, for the trans-Neptunian planet, made from November, 1877, to 
March, 1878, with the 26-iuch refractor of the Washington Observatory. 
Professor Todd has now published* the full details of his telescopic 
work, giving a list of all "suspected objects," and transcribing his note- 
book entire. 

It was expected that the planet would readily be recognized by the 
contrast of its disc and light with the appearance of an average star 
of about the thirteenth magnitude, and only approximate positions of 
"suspected objects" are given, — generally by means of diagrams repre- 
senting the configuration of stars seen in the large telescope and in the 
field of the 5-inch finder. It would lighten considerably the labors of 
any one who may go over this ground iu the future, if Professor Todd 
had summarized his observations in some way, by establishing the 
identity or non-identity of nebulous objects which he has noted, as 
probably to be found in Herschel's General Catalogue, and by giving a 
list of such objects as he was still, at the end of his work, inclined to 
look upon with some suspicion. 

Although this search was unsuccessful, Professor Todd, regards the 
evidence of the existence of ^'■the trans-Neptune planet" as well founded, 
and he expresses the hope that the search may be continued with the 
improved methods of astronomical photography. 

The Minor Planets. — During the year 1885 the number of minor 
planets has been increased by nine, bringing the whole number now 
known up to 253. The discoveries of 1885 were as follows : . 



Proc. Am. Acad., 1885, 21 : p. 228-43. Aatron. A'achr., 113 : 153-66. 



ASTRONOMY. 



417 



No. 


Name, 


Date of discovery. 


Discoverer. 


Observatory. 


94 fS 


Vera . ..... 


February 6 

March 6 

March 14 

June 5 

August 16 

September 3 

October 4 


Pogson 


Madras. 


94fi 


Asporina 


Borrclly 

R. Luther 

J. Palisa 

Peters 


Marseilles.' 


947 


Enkrate. 


Diisscldorf. 


'>4tt 


Laiueia ... 


Vienua. 


249 


Use . . 


Cliiiton. 


9''i0 


Bettiiia . 


J. Palisa 

Do 


Vienna. 


''51 


Sonhia 


Do. 


9fi9 


Clementiiia 


October 11 

November 12 


Perrotin 

J. Palisa 


Nice. 


253 




VieuDa. 









The iucreasiug difficulties in this branch of astronomical discovery 
are forcibly suggested by the fact that four of these bodies were first 
taken for planets already known and their non-identity was only estab- 
lished by later observations. 

l!fumber 253 was discovered while searching for Erigone, and raises 
the whole number of those found by Palisa to fifty. Use is the forty- 
third discovered by Professor Peters. 

Of the minor planets discovered in 1884, number 237 has received the 
name of Ccelestina (erroneously given as Hypatia in last year's report), 
Number 238 that of Hypatia, 239 Adrastea, 243 Ida, and 244 Sita. Up 
to February, 1885, there were still 18 which had been observed at only 
one opposition, excepting, of course, those discovered during the year 
preceding. 

Ephemerides of the small planets for 1886 will be found in the Ber- 
liner Astronomisches Jalirhuch for 1888. There are approximate i)laces 
for every twentieth day, of 247 out of the 253 now kuown, with accu- 
rately calculated opposition ephemerides for 19 of these. The elements 
of these first 247 are also glveu. 

MM. Callandreau and Fabry give in the Bulletin Astronomique a set 
of tables which will be found very useful in computing approximate 
ephemerides for these small bodies, when the eccentricity of the orbit 
does not exceed 0-407 (=sin 24o). 

A series of photometric observations of Ceres and Pallas made in 
April and May, 1885, at Harvard College Observatory gave Ceres =7*71 
magnitude with a probable error from nine observations of 0*05; Pallas 
=8-55 magnitude with a probable error of 0-02 from ten observations. 
Twenty-two observations of Vesta Avere made in 1880-'82, giving the 
result G*47 as the magnitude of the plant for mean opposition, and the 
probable error 0'04. Corresponding magnitudes for a distance of unity 
from tjie sun and from the observer for these three bodies would be 4*27, 
540, and 3-93, respectively. 

Mr. A. l!il. Skinner, of the United States ISTaval Observatory, has 
kindly furnished the following complete list of the minor planets. The 
first list gives the number, name, date of discovery, and the name of 
the discoverer: the subscript figure to the name of the discoverer is the 
discoverer's number. The second list is an alphabetical index of the 
first 252 minor planets. 
H. Mis. 15 27 



4:18 



SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 
The minor planets in the order of discovery. 



No. 



1 
2 
3 

4 
5 

6 

7 
8 

9 

10 

11 
12 
13 

14 
15 

16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 

24 
25 
26 

27 

28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 

34 
35 
36 
37 

38 
39 
40 
41 
42 

43 

44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 

51 

52 
53 
54 
55 

66 

57 

58 
59 
60 
61 
62 



Name. 



Ceres. 
Pallas 



Jnno . 
Vesta . 



Astraia . 



Hebe . 
Iris .. 
Mora . 



Metis. 



Hygeia . 



Parthenope... 

Victoria 

Egeria 



Irene 

Ennomia 



Psyche 

Thetis 

Melpomene.. 

Fort una 

Massalia 

Lutetia 

Calliope 

ThaUa 



Date. 



Themis 

Phocsea . .. 
Proserpina 
Eutei^pe . . . 



Bellona 

Amphitrite 

Urania 

Euphrosyne . . . 

Pomona 

Polyhymnia ... 



Circe 

Leucothea . 
Atalante. .. 
Fides 



Lerla 

LsBtitia . - - 
Harmonia 
Daphne. . . 
Isis 



Ariadne . 

Nysa 

Eugenia . 
Hestia. .. 
Aglaja... 

Doris 

Pales 

Virginia . 



Nemausa .. 

Europa 

Calypso 

Alexandra. 
Pandora ... 



Melete. 



Mnemosyne ... 

Concordia 

Elpis 

Echo 

Dauae 

Erato 



1801. 
Jan. 1 

1802. 
Mar. 28 

1804. 
Sei)t. 1 

1807. 
Mar. 29 

1845. 
Dec. 8 

1847. 
July 1 
Aug. 13 
Oct. 18 

1848. 
Apr. 25 

1849. 
Apr. 12 

1850. 
May 11 
Sept. 13 
Nov. 2 

1851. 
May 19 
July 29 

1852. 
Mar. 17 
Apr. 17 
Juno 24 
Aug. 22 
Sept. 19 
Nov. 15 
Nov. 16 
Dec. 15 

1853. 
Apr. 5 
Apr. 6 
May 5 
Nov. 8 

1854. 
Mar. 1 
Mar. 1 
July 22 
Sept. 1 
Oct. 26 
Oct. 28 

1855. 
Apr. 6 
Apr. 19 
Oct. 5 
Oct. 5 

1856. 
Jan. 12 
Feb. 8 
Mar. 31 
May 22 
May 23 

1857. 
Apr. 15 
May 27 
June 27 
Aug. 16 
Sept. 15 
Sept. 19 
Sept. 19 
Oct. 4 

1858. 
Jan. 22 
Feb. 4 
Apr. 4 
Sept. 10 
Sept. 10 

1857. 
Sept. 9 

1859. 
Sept. 22 

1860. 
Mar. 24 
Sept. 12 
Sept. 14 
Sept. 9 
Sept 14 



Discoverer. 



Piazzi. 

Olbers i. 

Harding. 

Olbers 2. 

Hencke j. 

Henckes. 
Hind I. 
Hind 2. 

Graham. 

De Gasparis i. 

De Gasparis 2. 

Hinds. 

De Gasparis 3. 

Hind 4. 

De Gasparis 4. 

De Ga.sparis 6. 

Luther 1. 

Hinds. 

Hinds. 

De Gasparis 6. 

Goldschmidt 1. 

.Hind?. 

Hinds. 

De Gasparis 7. 
Chacornac i. 
Luthera. 
Hinds* 

Luther 3. 
Marth. 
Hind 10. 
Ferguson 1. 
Goldschmidt:. 
Chacornac 2. 

Chacornac 3. 
Luther 4. 
Goldschmidt 3. 
Luther 6. 

Chacomac4. 
Chacornac 5. 
Goklschmidt4. 
Goldschmidt s. 
Pogson 1. 

Pogson 2. 
Goldschmidt 6. 
Goldschmidt 7. 
Pogson 3. 
Luther g. 
Goldschmidt s. 
Goldschmidt 9. 
Ferguson 2. 

Laurent. 
Goldschmidt 10. 
Luther 7. 
Goldschmidt n 
Searle. 

Goldschmidt 12 

Luther s. 

Luther 9. 
Chacornac 6. 
Ferguson 3. 
Goldschmidt 13. 
Foerster. 



No. 



63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 

73 

74 
75 
76 

77 



79 

80 
81 
82 

83 

84 
85 

86 
87 
88 
89 
90 
91 

92 
93 
94 
95 

96 

97 

98 

99 

100 

101 

102 

103 

104 

105 

106 

107 

108 
109 

110 
111 
112 

113 
114 
115 
116 
117 

118 
119 
120 
121 
122 
123 
124 
125 
126 
127 
128 

129 
130 
131 



Name. 



Ausonia 

Angelina ... 

Cybele 

Maja 

Asia 

Leto 

Hesperia ... 

Panopaea 

Niobe 

Feronia 

Clytia 

Galatea 

Eurydice ... 

Freia 

Frigga 

Diana 

Eurynome .. 

Sappho 

Terpsichore 
Alcmene 

Beatrix 

Clio 

lo 

Semele 

Svlvia 

Thisbe 

Julia 

Antiope ... 
.aigina 

Undina 

Minerva 

Au roia 

Arethusa ... 

.a;gie 

Clotho , 

lantho 

Dike 

Hecate 

Helena 

Miriam 

Hera 

Clymene 

Artemis 

Dioue 

Camilla 

Hecuba 

Felicitas 

Lydia 

A"te 

Iphigenia... 

Amalthea... 
Cassandra . . 

Thyra 

Sirona 

Lomia 

Peitho 

Althaea- ... 

Lachesis 

Hermione... 

Gerda 

Brunhild ... 

Alceste 

Liberatrix . . 

Velleda 

Johanna 

Nemesis 

Antigone . . . 

Electra 

VaJa 



Date. 



1861. 
Feb. 10 
Mar. 4 
Mar. 8 
Apr. 9 
Apr. 17 
Apr. 29 
Apr. 29 
May 5 
Aug. 13 
May 29 

1862. 
Apr. 7 
Aug. 29 
Sept. 22 
Oct. 21 
Nov. 12 

1863. 
Mar. 15 
Sept. 14 

1864. 
Mav 2 
Sept 30 
Nov. 27 

1865. 
Apr. 26 
Aug. 25 
Sept 19 

1866. 
Jan. 4 
May 16 
June 15 
Aug. 6 
Oct 1 
Nov. 4 

1867. 
July 7 
Aug. 24 
Sept 6 
Nov. 23 

1868. 
Feb. 17 
Feb. 17 
Apr. 18 
May 28 
July 11 
Aug. 15 
Aug. 22 
Sept 7 
Sept 13 
Sept 16 
Oct 10 
Nov. 17 

1869. 
Apr. 2 
Oct 9 

1870. 
Apr. 19 
Aug. 14 
Sept. 19 

1871. 
Mar. 12 
July 23 
Aug. 6 
Sept 8 
Sept. 12 

1872. 
M.ar. 15 
Apr. 3 
-Apr. 10 
May 12 
July 31 
July 31 
Aug. 23 
Sept. 11 
Nov. 5 
Nov. 5 
Nov. 25 

1873. 
Feb. 5 
Feb. 17 
May 24 



Discoverer. 



De Gasparis ». 
Tempel 1. 
Tempel 2. 
Tuttle 1. 
Pogson 4. 
Luther 10. 
Schiaparelli. 
Goldschmidt 14. 
Luther 11. 
C.H.F. Peters 1. 

Tuttle 2. 
Tempel 3. 
Peters 5. 
D'Arrest 
Peteiss. 

Luther 12. 
Watson 1. 

Pog.son 6. 
Tempel 4. 
Luther 13. 

De Gasparis ». 
Luther 14. 
Peters 4. 

Tietjen. 
Pogsou c. 
Peters 5. 
Stepban. 
Luther is. 
Borrelly 1. 

Peters 6. 
Watson 2. 
Watson 3. 
Luther ig. 

Coggiai. 
Tempel 5. 
Peters 7. 
Borrelly 2. 
Watson 4. 
Watson 6. 
Peters 8. 
Watson 6- 
Watson 7. 
Watson 8. 
Watson 9. 
Pogson 7. 

Luther 17. 
Peters 9. 

Borrelly 3. 
Peters ifl. 
Peters 11. 

Luther is. 
Peters )2. 
Watson 10. 
Peters 13. 
Borrelly 4. 

Luther'ig. 
Watson 11. 
Borrelly g. 
Watson 12. 
Peters 14. 
Peters 15. 
Peters le- 
Prosper Henry 1. 
Paul Henry 1. 
Prosper Henry 2. 
Watson 13. 

Peters 17. 
Peters is. 
Peters 19. 



ASTRONOMY. 
The minor planets in the wder of discovery — Continued. 



419 



No. 



Name. 



132 
133 
134 

135 
13G 
137 
138 
139 
Ui) 

141 
142 
143 
144 
145 
14G 
147 
148 
149 
150 
151 
152 
153 
154 
155 
156 
157 

158 
159 
160 
161 
162 
163 
164 
165 
166 
167 
168 
169 

170 
171 
172 
173 
174 
175 
176 
177 
178 
179 

180 
181 
182 
183 
184 
185 
186 
187 
188 
189 
190 
191 

192 



.Sthra 

Cyrene 

Sophrosyne.. 

Hertha 

Austria 

ileliboea 

Tolosa 

Juewa 

Siwa 

Lumen 

Polana 

Adiia 

Vibilia 

Adooua 

Luctua 

Piotopeneia.. 

Gallia 

Medusa 

Nuwa 

Abundantia 

Atala 

Hilda 

Bertha 

Scylla 

Xanthippe... 
Dejanira 

Coronis 

JSmilia 

Una 

Athor 

Laurentia 

Erigone 

Eva 

Loreley 

KhodopB 

Urda 

Sibylla 

Zelia 

Maria 

Ophelia 

Baucis 

Ino 

Phaedra 

Andromache. 

Idunua 

Imia 

Belisana 

Clytemnestra 

Garumna 

Eucharis 

Elsa 

Istria 

Dejopeja 

Eunike 

Celuta 

Lamberta 

Meuippe 

Phthia 

Ismene 

Kolga 

Nansicaa 



Date. 


1873. 


June 13 


Aug. 10 


Sept. 27 


1874. 


Feb. 18 


Mar. 18 


Apr. 21 


May ]9 


Oct. 10 


Oct. 13 


1875. 


Jan. 13 


Jan. 28 


Feb. 23 


June 3 


June 3 


June 8 


July 10 


Aug. 7 


Sept. 21 


Oct. 18 


Kov. 1 


Nov. 2 


Nov. 2 


Nov. 4 


Nov. 8 


Nov. 22 


Dec. 1 


1876. 


Jan. 4 


Jan. 26 


Feb. 20 


Apr. 19 


Apr. 21 


Apr. 26 


July 12 


Aug. 9 


Ang. 15 


Aug. 28 


Sept. 28 


Sept. 28 


1877. 


Jan. 10 


Jan. i:s 


Feb. 5 


Aug. 1 


Sept. 2 


Oct. 1 


Oct. 14 


Nov. 5 


Nov. 6 


Nov. 11 


1878. 


Jan. 29 


Feb. 2 


Feb. 7 


Feb. 8 


Feb. 28 


Mar. 1 


Apr. 6 


Apr. 11 


June 18 


Sept. 9 


Sept. 22 


Sept. 30 


1879. 


Feb. 17 



Discoverer. 



Watson 14. 
"Watson 16. 
Luther 20. 

Peters 20. 
Palisa I. 
Palisa 2. 
Perrotin 1. 
Watson 10. 
Palisa 3. 

Paul Henry 2. 
Palisa 4. 
Palisa 6. 
Peters 21. 
Peters 22. 
Borrelly 6. 
Schulhof. 
Prosper Henry 3. 
Perrotin 2. 
Watson 17. 
Piilisa c. 
Paul Henry s. 
Palisa 7. 

Prosper Henry 4. 
Palisa 8. 
Palisa 9. 
Borrelly 7. 

Knorre 1. 
Paul Henry 4. 
Peters 23. 
Watson 18. 
Prosper Henry s. 
Perrotin 3. 
Paul Henry*. 
Peters 24. 
Peters26. 
Peters 26. 
Watson 19. 
Prosper Henrj-e. 

Perrotin 4. 
Borrelly 8. 
Borrelly 9. 
Borrelly 10. 
Watson 20. 
Watson 21. 
Peters 27. 
Paul Henry 6. 
Palisa 10. 
Watson 22. 

Perrotin 5. 
Cottenot. 
Palisa II. 
Palisa 12. 
Palisa 13. 
Peters 28. 
Prosper Henry 7. 
Coggia 2. 
Peters 29. 
Peters 30. 
Peters 31. 
Peters 32. 

Paliua 14. 



No. 



193 
194 
195 
196 
197 
198 
199 
200 
201 
202 
203 
204 
205 
206 
207 
208 
209 
210 
211 

212 
213 
214 
215 
216 
217 
218 
219 

220 

221 

222 
223 
224 
225 
226 
227 
228 
22* 
230 
231 

232 
233 
234 
235 

230 
237 
238 
239 
240 
241 
242 
243 
244 

245 
246 
247 
248 
249 
2.50 
251 
2.52 
253 



Name. 



Ambrosia.. 

Piokne 

Eiirykloia . 
Philomela . 

Areto 

Ampella... 

Byblis 

Dynaniene. 
Penelope .. 
Chrysels... 
Ponipeia... 

Callisto 

Martha 

Hersilia . .. 

Hedda 

Lacrimosa . 

Dido 

Isabella 

Isolda 



Date. 



Medea 

Lilaea 

Aschera ... 

Oenone 

Cleopatra.. 

Eudora 

Bianca 

Thusnelda . 

Stephania.. 



Eos 

Lucia...*... 

Eosa 

Oceana 

Henrietta... 
Weringia -.. 
Philo.sophia. 

Agatho 

Adelinda . . . 
Athamantis. 
Vindobona.. 



Bussia 

Asteiope 
Barbara . . 
Carolina . 



Honoria 

Coelestina. .., 

Hypatia 

Adrastea 

V.madis 

Germania 

Kriemhild 

Ida 

Sita 



Vera , 

Asporina ... 

Eukrate 

Lameia 

Use 

Bettina 

Sophia 

Clementina . 



1879. 
Feb. 28 
Mar. 21 
Apr. 19 
May 14 
May 21 
June 13 
July. 9 
July 27 
Aug. 7 
Sept. 11 
Sept. 25 
Oct. 8 
Oct. 13 
Oct. 13 
Oct. 17 
Oct. 21 
Oct. 22 
Nov. 12 
Dec. 10 

1880. 
Feb. 6 
Feb. 16 
Feb. 29 
Apr. 7 
Apr. 30 
Ang. 30 
Sept. 4 
Sept. 30 

1881. 
Feb. 23 

1882. 
Jan. 18 
Feb. 9 
Mar. 9 
Mar. 30 
Apr. 19 
.luly 19 
Aug. 12 
Aug. 19 
Aug. 22 
Sept. 3 
Sept. 10 

1883. 
Jan. 31 
May 11 
Aug. 12 
Nov. 28 

1884. 
Apr. 26 
June 27 
July 1 
Aug. 18 
Aug. 27 
Sept. 12 
Sept. 22 
S(])t. 29 
Oct. 14 

1885. 
Feb. 6 
Mar. 6 
Mar. 14 
June 5 
Aug. 16 
Sept. 3 
Oct. 4 
Oct. 11 
Nov. 12 



Discoverer. 



Coggia J. 
Peters 33. 
Palisa 16. 
Peters 34. 
Palisa 16. 
Borrelly 12. 
Peters 38. 
Peters 36. 
Palisa 17. 
Peters 37. 
Peters 38. 
Palisa 18. 
Palisa 19. 
Peters 39. 
Palisa 20. 
Palisa 21. 
Peters 40. 
Palisa 22. 
Palisa 23. 

Palisa 24. 
Peters 41. 
Palisa 25. 
Knorr6 2. 
Palisa 26. 
Coggia 4. 
Palisa 27. 
Palisa 28. 

Palisa 29. 

Palisa 30. 
Palisa 31. 
Palisa 32. 
Palisa 33. 
Palisa 34. 
Palisa 36. 
Paul Henry 7. 
Palisa 36. 
Palisa 37. 
De Ball. 1 
Palisa 38. 

Palisa 39. 
Borrelly 12. 
Peters 42. 
Palisa 40. 

Palisa 4). 
Palisa 42. 
Knorres. 
Palisa 43. 
Borrelly 13. 
Luther 21. 
Palisa 44. 
Palisa 46. 
Palisa 46. 

Pogson 8. 
Borrelly 14. 
Luther 22. 
Palisa 47. 
Peters 43. 
Palisa 48. 
Palisa 49. 
Perrotin s. 
Palisa 60. 



420 



SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 
Alphahetical index of the first 252 minor planeta. 



Kame. 



Abundantla 

^delinda 

Adeona 

Adrastea . . . 

Adria 

^pina 

MgXei 

Emilia 

^thra 

Agatlie 

Aglaja 

Alceste 

Alcmene 

Alexandra.. 

Althffia 

Amalthea. .t 
Ambrosia. .. 

Arupella 

Anjphitrite . 
Andromache 

Angelina 

Antigone ... 

Antiope 

Arete 

Aretbusa . . . 

Ariadne 

Artemia 

Aschora 

Asporina . . . 

Asia 

Asterope . . . 

Astrsea 

Atala 

Atalante 

Ate 

Athaniantis , 

Athor 

Aurora , 

Aiisonia 

Austria , 

Barbara 

Baucis 

Beatrix 

Bolisana 

Bellona 

Bertha , 

Bettina , 

Biauca 

BrunhiKl 

Byblis 

Calliope — 

Callisto 

Calypso 

Camilla 

Caiolina 

Cassandra . . 

Celuta 

Ceres 

Chryseis 

Circe 

Clementina . 
Cleopatra... 
Clio 



No. 



151 
229 
145 
239 
143 

91 

96 
159 
132 
228 

47 
124 

82 

54 
119 
113 
:93 
198 

29 
175 

64 
129 

90 
197 

95 

43 
105 
214 
246 

67 

233 

5 

152 

36 
111 
230 
161 

94 

o3 
136 
234 
172 

83 
178 

28 
154 
'-'50 
218 
123 
199 

22 
204 

53 
107 
235 
114 
186 
1 
202 

34 
252 
216 

84 



Kame. 



Clotho 

Clymene 

Clytemnestra . 

Cly tia 

Coelestina 

Concordia 

Coronis 

Cybele 

Cyrene 

Danae 

Daphne 

De.janira 

Dejopeja 

Diana 

Dido 

Dike 

Diono 

Doris 

Dynamene 

Echo 

Egeria 

Elcctra 

Elpis 

Elsa 

Eos 

Erato 

Erigone 

Eucharis 

Eudora 

Eugenia 

Eukrate 

Eunike 

Eunomia 

EuphrSsyne .. 

Europa 

Eurydice 

Eurykleia 

Eurynome 

Euterpe 

Eva 

Felicitas 

Feronia 

Fides 

Flora 

Fortuna 

Freia 

Friixga 

Galatea 

Gallia 

Garumna 

Gerda 

Germania 

flarmouia — 

Hebe 

Hecate 

Hecuba 

Hedda 

Helena 

Henrietta 

Hera 

Hermione 

Hersilia 

Hertha 



No. 



97 

104 

179 

73 

237 

58 

158 

65 

133 

61 

41 

157 

184 

78 

209 

99 

106 

48 

200 

60 

13 

130 

59 

182 

221 

62 

163 

181 

217 

45 

247 

185 

15 

31 

52 

75 

195 

79 

27 

164 

109 

72 

37 

8 

19 

76 

77 

74 

148 

180 

122 

241 

40 

6 

100 

108 

207 

101 

225 

103 

121 

200 

135 



Name. 



Hesperia — 

Hestia 

Hilda 

Honoria 

Hygeia 

Hypatia 

Ian the 

lo 

Ida 

Idunna 

Use 

Ino . 

Iphigenla... 

Irene 

Iris 

Irma 

Isabella 

Isis 

Ismeue 

Isolda 

Istria 

Johanna ... 

Juewa 

Julia 

Juno 

Kolga 

Kriemhild . 
Lachesis ... 
Lacrimosa . 

Lfetitia 

Lamberta-. 

Lameia . 

Laurentia .. 

Leda 

Leto 

Leucothea . . 
Liberatrix . . 

Lilsea 

Lomia 

Loreley 

Lucia 

Lucina 

Lumen 

Lutetia 

Lydia 

Maja 

Maria 

Martha 

Massalia 

Medea , 

Medusa 

Melete 

Meliboea . . . 
Melpomene 
Menlppe . . . 

Metis 

Minerva 

Miriam 

Mnerao.syne 
Naosicaii ... 
Nemausa ... 

Nemesis 

Niobe 



No. 



69 

46 
153 
236 

10 
238 

98 

85 
243 
176 
249 
173 
112 

14 

7 

177 

210 

42 
190 
211 
183 
127 
J 39 

89 
3 
191 
242 
120 
208 

39 
187 
248 
162 

38 

68 i 

35 
125 
213 
117 
165 
222 
146 
141 

21 
110 

66 
170 
205 

20 
212 
149 

56 
137 

18 

188 

9 

93 
102 

57 
192 

51 
128 

71 



Name. 



Nuwa 

Nysa 

Oceana 

Oenone 

Ophelia 

Pales 

Pallas 

Pandora 

Panopaea 

Parthenope . 

Peitho 

Penelope 

Phaedra 

Philomela . . . 
Philosophia . . 

Pliocisa 

Phthia 

Polana 

Polyhymnia . 

Pomona 

Pompeia 

Prokne 

Proserpina.. . 
Protogeneia. . 

Psyche 

Rhodope 

Eosa 

Russia 

Sappho 

Scylla 

Semele 

Sibylla 

Sirona 

Sita 

Siwa 

Sophia 

Sophrosyne . . 

Stephania 

Sylvia 

Terpsichore . 

Thalia 

Themis 

Thetis 

Thisbe 

Thnsnelda . . . 

Thyra 

Tolosa 

Una 

Undina 

Urania 

Urda 

Tala 

Vanadis 

Velleda 

Vera 

Vesta 

Vibilia 

Vi(!toria 

Vindobona. . . 

Virginia 

YVcnnsia 

Xanthippe... 
Zelia 



No. 



150 

44 

224 

215 

171 

49 

2 

55 

70 

11 

118 

201 

174 

196 

227 

25 

189 

142 

33 

32 

203 

194 

26 

147 

16 

166 

223 

232 

80 

155 

86 

168 

116 

244 

140 

251 

134 

220 

87 

81 

23 

24 

17 

88 

219 

115 

138 

160 

92 

30 

167 

131 

240 

126 

245 

4 

144 

12 

231 

50 

226 

156 

169 



REPORTS OF OBSERVATORIES. 



The following account of the recent activity of astronomical ob- 
servatories has been derived from the " Jahresbericlite der Sternwarte 
fiir 1884," in the Vierteljahrsschrift der Astronomischen GeseUschaft, vol- 
ume 20 (a condensed translation of this appeared in the Sidereal Mes- 
senger, September, 1885), and from the reports of observatories for 1885 
that have been published up to the present date (April, 1885): the re- 



ASTRONOMY. 421 

j)orts of Englisb observatories are largely obtained from the Montldy 
Xotices. Sirius xix : 14-18, 64-GG) contains brief descriptions, &c., of 
Austro-Hungarian observatories. 

Armagh. — The building for the new 10-inch Grubb equatorial (10 feet 
focal length) was erected in July last. The dome moves on G '• canted" 
wheels and is covered with i^apier-mach^ riveted to the iron frame- 
work and stitched together with copper wire. The declination circle 
can be read from the eye end, and both it and the right ascension circle 
can be illuminated by small incandescent lamps worked by a two-cell 
bichromate battery. 

Bamberg Observatory. — Dr. Hartwig, recently of the Strassburg and 
Dorpat observatories, has been appointed director (January, 188G), and 
is busy with the preliminary arrangements for erecting the buildings. 

Berlin (1884). — The large meridian circle has been dismounted and 
has received important mechanical improvements. The observations 
on the southern half of the Berlin Zone were temporarily stopped dur- 
ing the year. Dr. Kuestner has begun a series of observations with 
the object of determining the constant of aberration by measures of the 
difference of zenith distances of pairs of stars in the same R. A. and 
equal and opposite Z. D. The work is to be finished in 1885. Dr. 
Knorre has made a large number of observations with the 9-G-inch 
equatorial for the positions of asteroids, comets, and faint stars. The 
})lanet Hypatia was found by him July 1, 1884. Dr. Battermann is 
regularly observing occultations, both immersions and emersions. Dr. 
Marcuse has charge of the heliometer, and has made thirty-three de- 
terminations of the solar diameter, &c. Vol. v of the Berlin observa- 
tions has been published during the year. 

German Transit of Venus Commission (1884). The report of Dr. 
Auwers on the work of the computing bureau relates iirst to the obser- 
vations. These are of three kinds: (1) Observations before the expe- 
ditions, for practice, and for the investigation of special points ; (2) 
observations at the stations ; and (3) observations made after the re- 
turn of the parties. A list of the heliometer measures of each observer 
comprised in these classes is given separately, and a summary, from 
which it appears that the total number of complete measures with the 
four heliometers was : 

Before and after the expeditions 1, 769 

At the stations themselves 1, 074 

In all, for thirteen observers 2, 843 

Bermerside, Halifax (Mr. Edward Crossley's observatory). Phenom- 
ena of the satellites of Jupiter and Saturn observed. 

Bonn. — 2881 zone stars (four hundred fundamental stars) were de- 
termined in the A, G. zone. The southern DurchmuMe^ung has required 



422 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

the examination of some seven hiiudrecl and fifty places in the sky to 
solve doubts. In December, 1883, the charting of the stars on the maps 
was again begun and finally completed in March, 1885. The catalogue 
will contain 133,658 stars between — 2° and — 23°; 692 more are given 
north of these limits and 479 south. 

Bordeaux. — This observatory, founded in 1871, has just now {Comptes 
Eendus, 101 : 690, 1885), published its first volume of Annales, con- 
taining a minute description of the instruments (a meridian circle of 
0-19™ aperture, two equatorials of 0-22 and 0'39'°, and three clocks), and, 
also, a determination of the longitude of the observatory. An impor- 
tant piece of work has been undertaken by the director, M. Eayet, in 
the re-observation of the 23,000 stars in Argelander's southern zones, 
between — 15° and — 31° of declination. The latitude is given as 
+ 44° 50' 7"-23. (Science.) 

Boswell Observatory, of Doaue College, Crete, Nebr., is due to the 
liberality of the late Charles Boswell, of West Hartford, Conn. The 
observatory possesses a full set of meteorological instruments in addi- 
tion to its astronomical equipment, and is a signal-service station, co- 
operating with the United States Signal Service at Washington. A 
time-ball is dropped daily at noon. 

Brussels. — The transit and mural are used to observe moon culminat- 
ing stars. A general catalogue of the stars observed at Brussels in the 
years 1857-'78, reduced to 1865, will be printed during 1885. M. F. 
Folie, administrating inspector of the University of Liege, has been ap- 
pointed director. Since the resignation of M. Houzeau, the direction 
has been in the hands of a committee of three, MM. Stas, Liagre, and 
Mailly. 

Buchtel College Observatory, Al^ron, Ohio. — Approximate latitude, -f-41° 
3' ; approximate longitude, b^ 26°^ west of Greenwich. The observatory 
was erected in the summer of 1885, and the instruments set up about 
March 1, 1886. The following instruments are in use : 

Transit circle of 3 inches aperture, by Fauth «& Co., of Washington. 
The circles are 16 inches in diameter, one being coarsely divided on the 
edge and serving as a finder, the other being divided on silver to five- 
minute spaces and reading by two micrometer-microscopes to single sec- 
onds. The telescope is provided with right ascension and declination 
micrometers. A fine level is attached, so that the instrument can be 
used as a zenith telescope ; reversing apparatus, plain and diagonal 
eye-pieces accompany the instrument. 

Sidereal clock, by E. Howard & Co., of Boston. This clock is x>rovided 
with electrical attachments for oi)erating the chronograph. Chrono- 
graph, by Fauth & Co. Mean time clock, by Fauth & Co. This clock 
is provided with Gardner's electrical attachments for operating chrono- 
graph, dropping timeball, and correcting a system of controlled clocks. 



ASTRONOMY. 423 

Equatorial telescope of 4^ iDclies aperture, by Pike & Sons. 

Sextant, by Fautli & Co. 

The observatory was built as a working? observatory for the college 
students in astronomy, and it will be chiefly devoted to this purpose. 
Besides this, the work for the following year will be, (1) to furnish the 
city and surrounding towns with correct time signals ; (2) to determine 
the latitude and longitude; (3) to observe all occultations of stars that 
are visible here. 

Cambridge (England) Observatory. — The total number of observations 
made with the transit circle during the year was 3,253, including 2,442 
observations of zone stars made on one hundred nights. The observa- 
tions of clock stars and those of Polaris are completely reduced, and 
the mean places for January 1 obtained up to the end of 1884. The true 
apparent places of all other stars observed in 1884 are also obtained, 
both in R. A. and K P. D. 

Christiania. — An equatorial of 360""™ aperture and G-8"> focal length 
has been erected by Herr H. G. Olsen. {Sirins.) 

Cincinnati Observatory. — No. 8 of the publications of this observatory, 
containing the observations of comets in 1883, has appeared during the 
l>ast year (1885). "It is noteworthy as jnesenting a pretty complete 
report on the phenomena of Pons' j^eriodical comet of 1812 at its reap- 
pearance. The features of the tail were particularly studied, and the 
discussion of the observations, based upon the theory of Dr. Bredichin, 
has been found to add confirmation to that theory." These observations 
were made by Mr. H. C. Wilson while in temporary charge. The ob- 
servatory is now under the direction of Prof. J. G. Porter. 

Constantinople. — It is reported that the Sultan has ordered the erec- 
tion of an astronomical and meteorological observatory at Constantinople.. 

Cordoba Observatory. — Dr. B. A. Gould returned to the United States 
in April, 1885. He has been succeeded as director of the Cordoba Ob- 
servatory by his first assistant. Dr. John M. Thome. Dr. Gould has 
published as the final definitive position of the Cordoba meridian cir- 
cle : Latitude, -31° 25' 15"-4G ; longitude, 4^ 16™ 48«-2 west of Greenwich. 

Dearborn Observatory. — Professor Hough's report for the year ending 
May 20, 1885, states that the uieri<lian circle has been used for deter- 
mination of time, which is furnished daily to the city of Chicago. A 
fall description is given of a i)rinting chronograph. The work with 
the great equatorial has been confined mainly to difficult double stars 
and the planet Jupiter. Four sketches of Jupiter accompany the re- 
port. The partial eclipse of the sun of March IG was observed for last 
contact, and a number of dry-plate negatives were obtained. 

Denmore Observatory (1885).— Mr. W. H. Numsen has erected a small 
private observatory near the city of Baltimore, and his 4-inch Cooke 
equatorial has been devoted to the study of the physical features of 



424 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

comets, &c. The ax>proximate position of the observatory is, latitude 
+390 21' ', longitude b^ C'" 52« west of Greenwich. 

Dresden (1884) (private observatory of Baron Engelhardt). — two hun- 
dred and forty- two observations of the positions of comets, planets, and 
nebulae (198) have been made with the 12-inch equatorial, besides minor 
observations. 

Bun-Echt Observatory (1885). — Lord Crawford has published Vol. in, 
containing Division 11, of the account of the Mauritius expedition to 
observe the transit of Venus, 1884. The Dun-Echt circulars have 
proved themselves invaluable during the year. 

Dunsinlc. — The South equatorial has been employed as usual in obser- 
vations on stellar parallax. The list of southern stars mentioned in former 
reports, observed with the meridian circle, has been supplemented by a 
list of proper motion stars. 

Dilsseldorf (1884). — Professor Luther discovered planet 241, Ger- 
mania, during the year on his Berlin chart for hours. Since 1847, 
150 planets have been observed 1,233 times at Dusseldorflf with the 
C-inch telescope. 

Ealing (Mr. Common's observatory). — Experiments in astronomical 
photography. Comet 1885 III, independently discovered on Septem- 
ber 4. 

EdivJburgh. — The printing of the Edinburgh Star Catalogue and Ephem- 
eris for 1830 to 1890 has been resumed, and it is now completed tQ 
17^ right ascension. 

Fran]{fort-on-the-31ain (1884) (private observatory of Herr Eppstein). — 
The star gauges were continued on sixty-two nights, in 682 places, 
2,714 fields, containing 25,875 stars. 

Sun-spots are also regularly observed here. 

Geneva (1884). — The large equatorial has been provided with a spec- 
troscope. Besides the regular observations relating to meteorology 
and to chronometers, observations of comets and of the satellites of 
Saturn have been made. 

Glasgoip. — Astronomical observations during 1885 have been neces- 
sarily confined to observations of a select list of stars with the transit 
cir(;le. The meteorological department has finally been put upon a sat- 
isfactory footing. 

Goiha (1884).— The computations of the zone 20° to 25° of the A. G. 
have been prosecuted. The meridian circle is used to observe moon 
culminating stars and others of Mayer's Catalogue, the equatorial for 
planet and comet observations. 

Greenwich Olservatmy. — The last report of the astronomer royal is 
for the year ending May 20, 1885, and is one of the most interesting that 
has appeared for several years. Transit circle: A reversion prism has 
been us^d in all observations ; a comparison of theresultsfrom the reversed 



ASTRONOMY. 425 

and ordinary observations of clock stars shows sensible differences in 
the case of some observers, who, perhaps, have not settled down to a 
fixed habit of observing "reversed" stars. For determining absolute 
personal equations in observations of stars and of limbs of the sun, moon, 
or planets, a personal equation apparatus consisting of a vertical plate, 
with a circular aperture 6 inches in diameter to represent the sun or 
moon and several small pinholes to represent stars, is placed in the 
focus of an object-glass of about 7 inches aperture and 50 feet focal length 
(which is attached to the dew-cap of the transit circle when horizontal 
and pointing north), and is carried smoothly by clock-work. The times 
of transit of the artificial objects are observed over the wires of the 
transit circle, and are also automatically recorded on the chronograph. 

The sun, moon, planets, and fundamental stars have been observed 
regularly. The annual catalogue for 1884 contains about 1,370 stars. 

The altazimuth has been used in observing the moon from last quarter 
to first quarter in each lunation. 

For the determination of motions of stars in the line of sight 569 meas- 
ures have been made of the displacement of the F line in the spectra of 
47 stars, and 72 measures of the 6 lines in 14 stars. The observations 
of the last twelve months confirm the change in the motion of Sirius, 
which now appears to be approaching the sun at the rate of about 20 
miles a second. 

Photographs of the sun were taken on one hundred and seventy-three 
days. On only two days was the sun's disk observed to be free from 
spots. 

In conclusion, Mr. Christie strongly urges an appropriation for an 
object-glass of 28 inches aperture and 28 feet focal length, to be placed 
upon the southeast equatorial mounting, in place of the present object- 
ive of less than half that aperture. This increased optical power is 
especially desired for prosecuting the spectroscopic work. 

We understand that the necessary sum has been granted, and that 
Mr. Grubb is already at work upon the glass. 

Grignon (1884) has made various observations on solar spots, com- 
ets, meteors, lunar eclipses, spots on Venus and Mars, «&c., for which 
observations, and the conclusions drawn from them, reference must be 
made to the original report. 

Harrow (Lieutenant-Colonel Tupman's observatory). — The meridian 
circle has been employed in determining the latitude and longitude of 
the observatory, and in observing right ascensions of the moon. The 
approximate latitude found is -fSlo 34' 47", and the approximate longi- 
tude, from transporting chronometers, 1™ 19«-9 west of Greenwich. The 
equatorial reflector has been chiefly used for observations of comets. 

Harvard College Observatory. — Professor Pickering's report was pre- 
sented to the visiting committee December 3, 1885, The death of Mr. 
Robert Treat Paine has deprived the observatory of the immediate aid 



426 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

and advice of one of its most cordial friends, who had been a member 
of the visiting committee from the time of its original organization, forty 
years ago. Mr. Paine has perpetnated his services to his favorite science 
by the bequest to the observatory of his entire fortune, amountiug to 
more than a quarter of a million of dollars. Upon the settlement of 
the estate, one-half of this sum will become immediately available. 

The devotion of the observatory mainly to photometry continues, and 
the large equatorial has been occupied in observations of the eclipses of 
Jupiter's satellites, faint stars selected as standards of magnitude, com- 
parison stars for variables, and of the temporary star in the nebula of 
Andromeda. Mr. Chandler has continued his observations with the 
new instrument of his invention called the almncaniar, which in his 
hands exhibits, Professor Pickering says, a surprising efficiency and 
accuracy. The meridian photometer shows a large increase of work 
over previous years, the number of separate settings somewhat exceed- 
ing 50,000. The list of objects observed has been somewhat extended, 
and the accordance of the results continues satisfactory. The height 
and velocity of clouds have been the subject of study with Mr. W. M. 
Davis, about three hundred series of measures being obtained at a pair 
of stations connected by telephone. The measured altitudes varied 
from 2,000 to 25,000 feet. The observatory remains the American center 
of telegraphic distribution of important astronomical announcements, 
the discovery of nine small planets, five comets, and one new star being 
promulgated during the year. By the aid of the Bache fund of the 
National Academy of Sciences, an important investigation in stellar 
photography has been undertaken. Many photographs of the trails left 
by stars have been taken with the camera stationary ; and an equatorial 
star no brighter than the sixth magnitude leaves its mark in this way, 
while stars much fainter near the pole will leave an impression, since 
their motion is slow. Stars as faint as the fourteenth magnitude have 
thus been photographed without clock-work to move the instrument. 
The trails of the faint polar stars are very well defined and minute, and 
afford an excellent measure of stellar brightness, besides furnishing the 
means of determining the stars' positions with great accuracy. Also, 
the attempt has been made to prepare star charts by photography ; but 
the most striking results have been obtained with stellar spectra. By 
means of a large prism mounted in front of the lens, photographs of 
spectra have been obtained of stars as faint as the eighth magnitude, 
in which lines are shown with sufficient distinctness to be clearly seen 
in a paper positive. As all the stars in a large region are thus obtained 
with one exposure, more than a hundred spectra have been secured on 
a single plate. 

The work done with the meridian circle by Professor Eogers has 
largely consisted in the determination of the graduation of the instru- 
ment. Tlie work performed for this purpose is equivalent to the read- 
ing of a microscope forty thousand times. A second revision of the zone 



ASTRONOMY. 



427 



observations between the declinations +50c> and +55° is nearly com- 
pleted, and the observation of a catalogue of circumpolar stars hat" made 
good i^rogress. IMany shorter series of observ^ations have also been 
made. The reductions are fiir advanced, and material for several vol- 
umes is nearly ready for the press. 

An abstract of Mr. Chandler's investigation of the latitude of the 
Havard Observatory in given below : 

During the pastwinteranumberofstarssituated between -4-50and— 50 
of declination were observed with the almucantar (see Bulletin Astrono- 
mique i, p. 37), for the purpose of a new determination of the latitude of 
the observatory. The observations of this winter, confirmed by a new 
discussion of former determinations, indicate that the latitude of the 
dome of the Havard College Observatory, as given in the American 
Epliemeris (42° 22' 48"-3), or in the Connaissance des Temps (48"-l), is 
much too large. The more correct value, according to Mr. Chandler, 
is 420 22' 47"-6. 

For the latitude in question, there are on hand Professor Peirce's 
determination, based upon a long series of observations by the Messrs. 
Bond (1844-'45, prime vertical transits); Dr. Gould's determination 
(1855, zenith telescope) ; a series of observations by Professor Eogers 
(18(34, prime vertical transits) not yet published ; and, finally, two series 
obtained by Mr. Chandler in 1883, with a small almucantar and with 
a portable transit instrument. We give here the collected results of 
these different determinations, which are quite sensibly modified by 
reduction to the system of Dr. Auwer's fundamental catalogue. The 
results of 1844, which depend upon five stars only, are much more ac- 
cordant with the other results if the observations of /? Persei be omitted 
in the reduction, /5 Persei giving a latitude 1"'5 less than the general 
mean. Mr. Chandler thinks that this star's proper motion in declina- 
tion as adopted by Dr. Auwers (+0"'01) should be corrected by 
(_0"-03). 





No. of 
observa- 
tions. 


Latitude. 


Reduced to 
Auwer's 
system. 


Bond-Peirce 


168 
128 

308 
18 
28 
85 


' " 

42 22 48. 13 
48.17 
48.15 
47.63 
47.59 
47.57 


// 
47.06 


Bond-Peirce (excluding /3 Persei) 


47,53 


Gould 


47.61 


Chandler, 1883 , 


47.63 


Do 


47. 45 


Do 


47.57 







Bull. Astron., August, 1885. 

Relsingfors. — Dr. Anders Donner was appointed director to succeed 
Professor Krueger in 1883. The meridian instrument has been used to 
reobserve some 500 stars of the Helsingfors zone, +55° to +65°, Vic- 
toria and Sappho, the Moon and moon culminating stars, &c. 



428 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

Mereny. — Vol. II will be published in 1885. Spectrum observations 
of /S Lyrse have confirmed the variability of the spectrum of this star. 
Many other spectroscopic observations of stars, planets, and comets 
have been made. 

Hong-Kong. — Largely devoted to meteorological observations, weather 
reports, &c. The new time-ball was dropped daily at 1 p. m., Sundays 
and holidays excepted. Observations of the moon and of Jupiter's sat- 
ellites have been obtained. 

Karlsrulie (1884). — The principal work of the observatory is the de- 
termination of the xjositions of southern stars to 8th magnitude, inclusive. 
In the zone 0° to —4°, 5,000 observations have been made, and the zone 
—4° to —7° has been commenced. The single positions have probable 
errors of ±08-028 and ±0"-39. The 6-inch refractor has been re- 
mounted. 

Kei€. — Sketches of sun-spots have been made on one hundred and 
seventy-six days, in order to continue Schwabe's enumeration. The 
rating of time-pieces and the examination of sextants, meteorological 
instruments, &c., is continued, 

Kiel (1884). — The equatorial has been used to observe 2 2164 for par- 
allax, by Dr. Lamp. New comets were regularly observed. The me- 
ridian circle is used to determine the positions of stars between 79° and 
82° north. The zone catalogue (55° to 65°) is in preparation. 

Leipzig (1884). — A 6-iuch heliometer by Eepsold is in process of con- 
struction and will be delivered at the end of 1886. A universal instru- 
ment has been ordered, with which a long series for latitude will be 
commenced. Ten thousand five hundred and forty-one observations 
(123 zones) of zone stars have been made in the new zone (+5° to -f 10°) 
and the reductions for the old zone (+10° to +15°) are in progress. 

Leipzig (1884) (private observatory of Dr. Engelmann). — Two thou- 
sand six hundred observations of 430 double stars have been made, 
mostly of Struve's doubles. An investigation of the constant errors is 
in progress. It appears that the difference in the magnitude of the com- 
ponents influenced the constant errors in a marked degree. Otto Struve's 
list of double stars for comparison has been observed ; about 500 meas- 
ures have been obtained. 

Leyton (Mr. Barclay's observatory). — Double-star observations and 
observations of the phenomena of the satellites of Jupiter and Saturn 
are continued. 

Licit Observatory. — All the buildings for the observatory proper are 
now completed except the dome for the large equatorial. A suitable 
dwelling house has been erected ; others will be required. All the princi- 
pal instruments of the observatory but one have been designed, ordered, 
constructed, inspected, and are now suitably mounted, so that observa- 
tions could be at once begun. This instrumental equipment consists 
of a 12-inch Clark equatorial ; a Repsold meridian circle of essentially 



ASTRONOMY. 429 

the same design as the Strasburg instrument, having an object glass 
of 6 inches aperture, witli collimators of the same size (these three ob- 
jectives by Alvan Clark «& Sons) ; a 4-inch transit instrument by Fauth; 
a 6-incli equatorial; a 4 inch comet-seeker by Clark; a 2-iuch Kepsold 
vertical circle ; a photo-heliograph ; a measuring engine by iStackpole, 
reading either rectangular or polar co-ordinates. There are live clocks, 
by Dent, Frodsham, Hohwii, and Howard, and four chronometers by 
Kegus. A system of electrical connections unites all the clocks and 
observing rooms. A most wise provision is a workshop with a com- 
plete outfit of tools and lathes. An extensive library is in process of 
formation and has already necessitated an outlay of about $5,000. 

The contract for the object glass of the great refractor, which is to 
have an aperture of 3G inches and a focal length of 60 feet, was placed 
with the Messrs. Clark nearly five years ago. Two years later they re- 
ceived from the glass-maker, M. Fell, of Paris, a disk of flint-glass of the 
required perfection, and 38 inches in diameter. After repeated unsuc- 
cessful attempts a satisfactory piece of crown-glass was cast in 1885, 
and sent to the Clarks, and about October the work of figuring was 
begun, and is now being pushed rapidly forward. The Clarks hope to 
have the objective finished in the autumn of 1886. It has not yet been 
decided, we believe, who is to make the elaborate mounting for the tel- 
escope, or the dome of about 70 feet diameter, which is to cover it. 

''With regard to the prospective capabilities of the great telescope 
when placed in so favorable an atmosphere, it is stated that it is not 
unreasonable to suppose that on the best nights the maximum magnify- 
iug power (about 3,500) may be advantageously employed. Making- 
due allowance for the unfavorable effects of the earth's atmosphere, 
the observer might, under these circumstances, expect to see the moon 
much the same as he would without the telescope, if it were only 100 
miles away. It might be possible then to makfe out details of objects, 
even although they were no larger than some of the larger edifices on 
the earth." 

Prof Edward S. Holden, director of the Washburn Observatory, Madi- 
son, was appointed January 1, 1886, to the double position of director 
of the Lick Observatory and president of the University of California, 
to which latter institution the observatory when completed will be at- 
tached. Professor Holden, as consulting astronomer, ha§ virtually had 
the direction of the work for some time past, visiting Mount Hamilton 
in 1881 and again in 1883 and 1884. 

The first volume of the publications of the Lick Observatory is now 
in course of preparation, under the direction of the Lick trustees, byCapt. 
Richard S. Floyd and Professor Holden. 

Liverpool Observatory. — Time-service and chronometer tests are con- 
tinued as in previous years. The late Mr. John Hartnup was succeeded 
as director by his son, who bears the same name. 



430 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Lund (1884). — Dr. Dim^r continues bis observations of tlie spectra 
of stars, measures of double stars, and positions of the comets. The 
longitude observations of Dr. Dun6r and Professor Thiele in 1879, lately 
reduced, make the Lund Observatory 2" 26«-38 i0«-04 east of the ob- 
servatory of Copenhagen. 

McCormiclc Observatory. — TheLeander McCormick Observatory, of the 
University of Virginia, was formally opened by public ceremony on the 
13th of April, 1885. An address on "The instruments and work of As- 
tronomy," was made by Professor Hall, of the United States Naval Ob- 
servatory. 

The 66'^^ (25-98 inches) equatorial of the observatory is chiefly em- 
ployed at present in observations of nebulae. During the progress of 
this work something over two hundred new nebulae have thus far been de- 
tected by Professor Stone and bis assistant, Mr. Leavenworth. Draw- 
ings of about the same number of nebulae (some old and some new) 
have also been made. Professor Stone designs making a special study 
of the nebula of Orion. 

McEim Observatory. — The McKim Observatory was opened in Sep- 
tember, 1885, as a department of De Pauw University. It is located 
in the suburbs of the university town, Greencastle, Ind., in west longi- 
tude from Greenwich 80° 37^', north latitude 39° 37'. The building 
and the full instrumental experiment which it is designed to Imve are 
the gift of Mr. Eobert McKim, of Madison, Ind. This gentleman has 
for a number of years had a 6-inch glass mounted near his residence, 
so that the observatory be has just presented to De Pauw University 
might almost be, called the second McKim Observatory. 

The equatorial has a clear aperture of 9-53 inches; the dome is of 
iron, and is 17 feet in diameter. Both telescope and dome are by 
Warner and Swasey, of Cleveland, For clock errors an almucantar is 
to be used. The building and instruments have cost $8,000, and about 
$2,000 more will be expended. Dr. T. P. John is tbe director. 

Madras. — From the report for 1883 we learn that 2,453 observations 
were made with tbe meridian circle during tbe year, making a total of 
50,878 Only a few hundred more are required to tiuisb the catalogue 
of over 5,000 stars. Tbe publications are badly behindhand. 

Melbourne. — Mr. Ellery's nineteenth annual report states that the 
new transit circle of 8 inches aperture was received in May, 1884, and 
mounted early in July. It is proposed to send tbe two specula of the 
great reflector, one after the other, to England to be repolished. A 
number of stars selected b^' Auwers was observed with tbe old transit 
circle to assist in the formation of a fundamental catalogue of southern 
stars. 

Mexico Observatory. — Prof. H. S. Pritcbett, director of the observa- 
tory of the Washington University at Saint Louis, kindly communicates 
the results of a longitude campaign between bis observatory and the Ob- 



ASTRONOMY. 431 

servatorio Nacional de Mexico, Sr. A. Anguiano, director. A prelimi- 
nary discussion gives SS"* 57*.25 as the difference of longitude, or &^ 36™ 
46^41 west of Greenwich as the resulting longitude of the transit-circle 
l)iers of the Mexican observatory. This differs 5^.0 from the old value 
determined by moon-culminations. The circuit was 2,583 miles long, 
with fi\e repeaters, and the armature time was quite constant, averag- 
ing 0«.38. The outfit of the Mexican National Observatory includes a 
15-inch equatorial by Grubb, and an 8-inch meridian circle and a 6-inch 
transit, both by Troughton and Simms. The personnel consists of the 
director (Sr. Anguiano) and five assistants. {Science, November 6, 
1885.) 

Milan (1884). — The 8-inch refractor has been used for measurements of 
255 double stars and for observations of comets. The measures of the 
ellipticity of Uranus cannot yet be considered free from all objections. 
The observations on Mars seem to confirm previous results as to the 
duplication of canals, &c. 

The large dome for the 18 inch refactor is nearly completed. 

Munich (1884). — The 10-inch equatorial is now remounted and the Rep- 
sold micrometer has been studied. It will be principally used to de- 
termine the parallaxes of LI. 28298, 26 Draconis, Gr. 2875, Br. 3077. 

The Munich zones contain 34,000 stars, of which 9,800 require reob- 
servation. This will be accomplished in zones 6"^ broad. The old ^lun- 
ich zones are recomputed and a catalogue (for 1880) is in preparation. 

Natal Observatory (1884). — Fifty-nine transits of the moon's limb and 
50 transits of the nearly central crater Murchison A have been obtained 
with the transit circle. These observations furnish data for calculating 
the variation in the irradiation at the edge of the moon and of the ef- 
fect of the known irregularities on the limb. Arkley Observatory, 
England, co-operates in this Avork. An appendix to the report con- 
tains observations of comets Pons and Barnard. 

Nice. — The observatory and its extensive grounds occupy the sum- 
mit of a hill known as Mont Gras, some 1,200 feet above sea level and 
distant from the Mediterranean about 3 or 4 miles. We notice that it 
is arranged on the plan of detached buildings, a plan that has been fol- 
lowed in the construction of most large observatories of recent date. 
On the southern slope of the bill are the dwelling houses for the ob- 
servers, library, computing rooms, &c., and higher ui) are the various 
buildings that contain the instruments. A 15-inch equatorial, 0-inch 
meridian circle, and 3-inch transit are already in use. The great steel 
dome, 72 feet in diameter, is finished and has been found to work sat- 
isfactorily. The peculiarity in the construction of this dome — the work 
of the celebrated engineer Eiffel, of Paris — is that the greater part 
of its weight is taken by a circular float which revolves in an annular 
tank filled with a solution of chloride of magnesium in water. This so- 
lution has a density of 1-25, avid is f^ble to resist a temperature of 40° 



432 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

centigrade below zero. Running- wheels are used as guides and to take 
such a share of the superimposed weight only as may be necessary to 
secure perfect steadiness in rotation. It is evident that by adding to 
the water in the tank the weight on the wheels can be either entirely 
or partially relieved, and by abstracting from it, any desired pressure 
can be placed upon these wheels. The shutter is made in two leaves, 
and opens right and left with a rain-tight joint in the center; the open- 
ing is about 10 feet. For a complete description of the dome, with illus- 
trations, we must refer to VAstronomie, 4 : 206-12; Observatory y 8 : 290; 
and N'ature, 32 : 62, 297. 

M. Faye announces that the objective of 30 inches clear aperture has 
been finished by the Henry brothers, and has been sent to Gautier, who 
has charge of the construction of the great equatorial; it is hoped the 
instrument will be mounted in April, 1886. 

O'Oyalla. — Sixteen hundred and ten observations for the spectroscopic 
JJurchnwsterung of the southern sky have been made. Color observa- 
tions with the Zoeliner photometer are also continued, as well as various 
other photometric and spectroscopic series. 

Oxford University Observatory. — The director's annual report was read 
on June 3, 1885. A subsidiary observatory, for instruction, has been 
built. Professor Pritchard has published a memoir on the evidences 
of mutual gravitation among the components of the Pleiades. The com- 
pletion is announced of the phometric survey of all stars visible to the 
naked eye from the pole to — 10°. 

Paris. — Eear- Admiral Monchez has issued his report on the work of 
this establishment during the year 1884. The completion of the reob- 
servation of Lalande's stars has led to a new disposition of the meridian 
instruments, one of which, on the proi)Osal of M. Loewy, is now occupied 
with the determination of a number of circumpolar stars on his new 
method ; the great meridian circle and the circle of Gambey are still 
employed for observations of the minor planets and of comparison stars 
for planets, comets, and nebulae observed with the equatorials. The 
great telescope of 0'"'74 is still unmounted, no suitable position being- 
available in the present state of the grounds of the observatory. M. 
Mouchez mentions having received communications from the authorities 
in Algeria, referring to the possibility of obtaining from the local budget 
the greater part of the sum that would be required to mount the instru- 
ment at the observatory of Algiers on the summit of the Boudjareah, 
an exceptionally favorable situation, which might be visited by the as- 
tronomers of the Paris Observatory for special observations, but the 
council of the latter institution have not availed themselves of the prop- 
osition, in the hope that the equatorial may yet be erected at Paris. 
Amongst the observations made with the instruments in the west tower 
and the Henry equatorial are many of the satellites of Uranus and 
Neptune, the companion of SirJuSj the Tbelts of Uranus, nebulae, and 



ASTRONOMY. 433 

double stars. MM. Henry have been occupied with astronomical pho- 
tography during the year, and, as is well known, with great success j 
various clusters of stars have been photographed, and M. ]\Iouchez ap- 
pends to his report a reproduction by heliogravure of a plate of the 
great clusters in Perseus. A trace of the motion of the minor planet 
Pallas was shown after an exposure of thirty-five minutes. The im- 
portant results obtained by MM. Henry in photographing very small 
stars in those crowded parts of the heavens where the galaxy crosses 
the ecliptic have been already referred to. - - - Steady progress 
has been made, both with the calculations and printing of the Paris 
Catalogue of Stars, and it is expected that the first volume of both series 
(star positions as observed, and catalogue) will be completed by the 
end of the year. Vol. 18 of the Mimoires is finished. The report further 
details the personal work of the members of the observatory staff. 
Amongst the additions to the museum is a portrait of Pons, presented 
by M. Tempel. 

The report for the year 1884 is preceded by one which enters spe- 
cially into the present condition of a scheme for removing the principal 
instruments in the observatory to a site where not only greater steadi- 
ness can be secured in their mounting, but where the objections of be- 
ing surrounded by a great city will not exist. It appears that the 
Academy of Sciences have not, so far, favored this scheme. M. Mouchez 
states very clearly his view of the question. (Nature.) 

Potsdam. — Researches are in progress on a new determination of the 
wave-lengths of a large number (300) of the Fraunhofer lines; on the 
influence of temperature on the refraction and dispersion indices of 
fixed substances ; on the reflective power of various substances ; on 
the absorption-spectra of such substances as are used in photography, 
&c. 

Jupiter and Mars were regularly observed and the nebulae observa- 
tions are concluded. 

The photometric measures embraced long series of determinations of 
the brightness of the major planets and of seven of the asteroids. 
Many variable and red stars were also measured. Determinations of 
the brightness of stars by photography have also been made, and a 
number of photographs of clusters have been taken. 

"The first part of the fourth volume of the publications of this obser- 
vatory, which was published in the latter part of last year [1885] con- 
tains three papers. The first of these is by Professor Vogel, and con- 
tains the observations which he made with the great Vienna reflector 
in 1883 for the purpose of testing the performance of the great object- 
glass. Professor Vogel's final verdict is altogether favorable. 'The 
Vienna objective,' he says, 'leaves nothing to be desired as regards the 
precision of the images,' and he speaks of using with advantage a power 
even of 1,500 upon planetary markings, a statement which is illustrated 
by a sketch of part of Saturn's ring as seen with tbat magnifying power. 
H. Mis. 15 li8 



434 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

His principal observations were, however, si)ectroscopic, Professor 
Vogel utilizing the great light-gathering x^ower of the Vienna equatorial 
for a detailed examination of the remarkable spectra shown by several 
faint stars, classified by him under Types II h and III h. - - - The 
paper also contains a number of observations of nebulae, principally 
planetary, and is illustrated by four lithographic plates. The second 
paper contains meteorological observations made in the years 1881 to 
1883, and the third is a very careful investigation by Dr. G. Miiller of the 
influence of temperature on the refraction of light through prisms of 
various kinds of glass, of Iceland spar and rock crystal." {Nature.) 

Prague (private observatory of Professor Safarik). — Fourteen hun- 
dred and eighty-two observations of 92 stars were made in 121 observ- 
ing nights. 

Pullioica Observatory. — " We have received M. Struve's annual re- 
port, presented May 25, 1885, on the work of the observatory during 
the year. The great 30-inch refractor had not yet been brought regu- 
larly into use; but at the timQ of writing the report observations with 
it were to be commenced immediately. The observations with the 15- 
inch equatorial, which for the last forty-five years have been M. O. 
Struve's own special work, are now undertaken by his son, Hennann 
Sturve, as he himself has been too much occupied with 9ther work, as 
well as having been incapacitated by a long illness. Micrometrical 
measures (98 in all) of the relative positions of lapetus and Titan, 
Titan and Ehea, and Rhea and Dione have been made during the year. 
It is hoped that these measures, in combination with those made in 
former years, will furnish very accurate elements of the orbits of these 
satellites. Dr. Hermann Struve has also made observations for determi- 
nation of the parallaxes of 10 stars, as well as determinations of the 
positions of Encke's and Wolf's comets. The relative positions of 116 
faint stars, which were occulted by the moon during the total eclipse of 
October 4, 1884, have also been determined with this instrument. Ob- 
servations with the great transit instrument have been continued by 
Wagner, with Wittram as his assistant. The observations (2,348 in 
number) have chiefly been of the Pulkowa Haupfsterne. With the ver- 
tical circle Nyren has zealously pursued his work of determining the 
declinations of the Hauptsterne. Of the 895 observations made 
during the year, no fewer than 832 were made in both positions of the 
instrument. In addition to these, 103 observations of the sun were ob- 
tained. Eomberg, observing with the meridian circle, has obtained 
1,236 observations in both elements of difterent stars taken from, (1), the 
Abo Catalogue; (2), the Pulkowa Catalogue of Double Stars; (3), stars 
used for comet observations; (4), stars used for determining the scale of 
the helioraeter. With the 4-inch Repsold heliometer Backlund has ob- 
tained thirty -two measures of distances and thirty measures of position- 
angles of Jupiter's satellites. Lindemann has investigated the varia- 



ASTRONOMY. 435 

tiou of light of V Cygiii with the Zollner photometer {Observatory, No. 
104, p. 435), and also has observed some other stars, the variability 
of which has been suspected. Hasselberg's spectroscopic researches 
have been limited to the chemical elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, 
which, however, are not yet finished. Photographs of the sun have 
been regularly taken throughout the year, for which work gelatine 
plates have been found specially conveneint. During the year 220 
photographs have been obtained on 173 days. Referring to the work 
carried on at the Marine Observatory at Mcolajew, M. Struve remarks 
that the director has found at Batum an extraordinary deviation of the 
pluuib4ine, amounting to 49"*6 in longitude=37"-l of a great circle in 
the direction of the prime vertical. In latitude the deviation is 16". 
That no volume of Pulkowa observations has been published during 
the year is owing chiefly to the long illness and multitudinous occupa- 
tions of the director. The following volumes, however, are in active 
preparation : Volume viii, which contains the star catalogue compiled 
from the meridian observations, 1839 to 1869; volume x, containing 
the continuation of O. Struve's measures*of double stars; volume xii, 
containing the fundamental determinations of E. A. for 1865.0; and 
volumes xiii and xiv, containing the fundamental determinations of 
declination for the same epoch. The work of the geographical and 
geodetical bureau, under Dollen's superintendence, has also been carried 
on as usual during the year." (Observatory.) 

RadcUffe Observatory^ Oxford. — With the transit circle 3,500 observa- 
tions of transits have been made, and 3,440 circle observations. The 
volume for 1882 has been printed ; that for 1883 is nearly ready for 
press ; the observations for 1884 are completely reduced ; those for 1885 
are nearly reduced to the end of the year. 

Borne. — A new observatory is being built under the direction of Father 
Ferrari, S. J., formerly assistant, and successor of Father Secchi, in the 
observatory of the Roman College. The observatory is now in j)osses- 
sion of a 4-inch equatorial by Merz, and is to have a 10-inch by the 
same maker. {Sid. Mess., 4 : 313.) 

Basse {Earl of), Birr Castle, Parsonstown. — Attention has been given 
to photometry and the measurement of lunar heat. The driving-clock 
of the 6-foot reflector is now run b}^ water power. 

San Jose, Gal. — The recently completed observatory for the Univer- 
sity of the Pacific, at San Jose, has a 6 inch Clark equatorial, and a 
Fauth transit instrument. The dome is 12 feet in diameter inside, 
covered with galvanized iron, and requires 15 pounds to turn it. The 
building and instruments are the gift of Capt. Charles Goodall, of San 
Francisco, aud Daniel Jacks, of Monterey. The observatory is under 
the charge of Prof. J. C. George. 

Smith Observatory. — We are very glad to learn that the reported clos- 
ing of the Smith Observatory of Beloit College on account of lack of 



436 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 

funds is incorrect. Mr. Tatlock has been succeeded as director by Mr, 
Charles A. Bacon. New arrangements have been made for both me- 
teorological and astronomical observations, and special attention will 
be given to solar and spectroscopic work. 

Stonyhurst College Observatory. — Magnetic and meteorological obser- 
vations have been made in 1884, as during the past fifteen years. On 
257 days drawings of the sun were made; the entire chromosphere was 
measured on 88 days, and spectra of spots were obtained on 36 days. 
" The glow encircling the sun during the day has never been entirely 
absent, though it varied in intensity from time to time." 

Strasshurg* — Dr. W. Schur has published his report of the work 
done at the observatory during the last year. The instruments in use 
at Strassburg are, (1) the meridian circle; (2) the altazimuth; (3) the 
great 18-inch refractor; (4) heliometer, and (5) the 6-inch refractor. 
It would appear, however, that to work these numerous and excellent 
instruments Dr. Schur has only two assistants. The meridian circle 
has been chiefly employed in* observing stars for the southern zones of 
the Astronomiscke GeseUschaft, as well as in determining positions of 
the sun, moon, and large planets and miscellaneous stars, comet-stars, 
&c. Determinations have also been made of the errors of division of 
the circle and of the form of the pivots. With the altazimuth, to which 
Herr Schur appears to have devoted a considerable amount of time and 
attention, observations of the moon have been commenced. The great 
refractor has been used for observing comets, and a re-examination of 
the micrometer-screw shows the necessity of a correction to the results 
which have been already published. With the heliometer a number of 
measures of the sun's diameter have been made ; whilst the 6 iuch re- 
fractor has been emiiloyed in making a series of measures for the deter- 
mination of the parallax of ^^ Aurigae. The amount of work performed 
by Dr. Schur and his assistants is very creditable to them ; but at the 
same time we are constrained to remark that it is a misfortune that an 
observatory which is so well i^rovided with instruments should not have 
a larger observing staif, in order that the various instruments might 
be worked adequately and to the best advantage. ( Observatory, October, 
1885.) 

TascMent. — The main object of the observatory is to co-operate in the 
surveys and explorations of Turkestan. Four latitudes and longitudes 
were determined in 1884. Comets, asteroids, and solar-spots have been 
observed also. 

Temple Observatory, Bugby. — The spectroscopic measurement of the 
motions of stars in the line of sight has been continued, and a new in- 
strument with prisms of bisulphide of carbon — intended for this work — 
is nearly completed. Double stars measures have been made as in 



• Astron. Nachr., No. 2675. 



ASTRONOMY. 437 

former years, and a catalogue of 900 sets of measures has been published 
in the Memoirs of the Eoyal Astronomical Society. 

United States Naval Observatory. — The report of the Superintendent 
bears the date of October 5, 1885. Eear-Admiral S. E. Franklin, U. S. 
Kavy, was detached March 31 and ordered to the command of the 
European squadron. From that date to the 1st of June Commander 
A. D. Brown acted as Superintendent, when he was relieved by Commo- 
dore George E. Belknap. 

The 26-inch equatorial, in charge of Professor Hall, has been em- 
ployed on satellites and double stars. The dome, 43 feet in diameter, 
is now revolved with great ease by means of a 4 horse-ijower gas engine. 
The observations of the satellite of Neptune and those of the two outer 
satellites of TJranus have been discussed and the results published. 
The observations of lapetus have been published since the report 
closed. 

The transit circle has been employed in the same class of work as in 
the preceding years. Since the last report 5,520 observations have been 
made. Of these, 90 were of the sun, 70 of the moon, 156 of the major 
planets, and 64 of the minor planets. 

The 9-6-inch equatorial : Professor Frisby was placed in charge April 
2, 1885. The work of the instrument has been confined to : (1) Obser- 
vations of comets, six of which have been systematically observed during 
the year. These observations have all been reduced to date, and pub- 
lished in various astronomical journals in this country and Europe. (2) 
Observations of asteroids, principally of such as could not be observed 
with the transit circle on account of their faintness or their position ; 
thirty-five regular observations of asteroids were made, and twenty-one 
approximate positions of other asteroids obtained, so that they could 
readily be observed with the transit circle. (3) Occultations of stars by 
the moon, whenever practicable. (4) Doubtful observations of stars and 
asteroids made with other instruments were looked up and decided, 
this being probably one of the most important uses of the equatorial. 
A few observations have been made of the variable star in the nebula 
of Andromeda, which show that the star is decreasing in brightness. 
Assistant Astronomer Winlock has made several observations of 
comets, with drawings of their physical peculiarities and changes of 
appearance. 

The prime vertical instrument : The work of reducing the observa- 
tions made in 1883-'84 by Lieut. C. G. Bowman and Ensign H. Taylor, 
U. S. Navy, for the determination of the constant of aberration, has 
been pursued. In July of last year a communication was received from 
the president of the International Geodetic Conference, asking the co- 
operation of this Observatory with the Eoyal Observatory at Lisbon in 
the determination of the problem of the change of latitudes, the obser- 
vations to be taken with the prime vertical instruments of the two 
observatories. Communication was opened and correspondence is still 



438 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

in progress with the director of the observatorj' at, Lisbon, and prepara- 
tions have been made to undertake the work here very soon after it is 
known that it will be begun at Lisbon. 

Meridian transit instrument : The work has consisted principally of 
daily observations and reductions for clock corrections in connection 
with the time service. 

Time service : During the past year the demands upon the time serv- 
ice have greatly increased. In Washington, the number of clocks of 
the Gardner system in the various public offices has increased from 20 
to 84. The total number of time-balls now dropped by the Observatory 
signal is eight, at the following points : Philadelphia, Baltimore, New 
Orleans, at branch hydrographic offices ; N^ew York, Western Union 
building; Navy Department, WavShington; navy-yard Washington; 
Hampton Roads; Savannah. A ninth will soon be added at the tor- 
pedo station in Newi)ort. 

The branch observatory at Mare Island, which is fitted with a dupli- 
cate of the transmitting apparatus of this Observatory, has been con- 
nected with the mainland by a cable, and time signals are transmitted 
daily along the Pacific coast. A time-ball has been erected on the 
island for the benefit of the Vallejo shipping, and is dropped daily at 
noon of the one hundred and twentieth meridian. The Hydrographic 
Office time-ball at San Francisco is also dropped at the same instant by 
signal from the Mare Island Observatory. 

Photography : In the programme of work proposed for the current 
year it was stated that the work of taking sun photographs daily would 
be inaugurated as soon as practicable. The work of the Transit of Ve- 
nus Commission has up to this time prevented any regular system being 
adopted. 

During the year the names of 1,408 visitors have been recorded, and 
1,137 permits were issued for night visitors, for whose accommodation 
the small equatorial is set apart. 

The records kept by the several observers and watchmen show that 
only about one night in eight is good for observing, while an exception- 
ally good night for astronomical work cannot be reckoned upon much 
oftener than once a month. 

The Commodore renews the recommendations of his predecessors that 
the Observatory be removed* to the new site purchased in 1880, and that 
a board of visitors be appointed to visit the institution annually. 

A special report of Professor Harkness is added, giving the progress 
of the work of the Transit ot Venus Commission. 

Upsala. — The unpublished observations of nebulae and clusters up to 
1880 are now prepared for the press. With the Zoellner photometer it 
is proposed to determine the magnitudes of the comparison stars used 
by Argelauder, Schoenfeld, and Oiidemanns for variables. 

*A coiBinittee of the National Academy of Science has, at the request of the Secre- 
tary of the Navy, jjiven careful consideration to this qncstion. Their report may be 
found iu Senate Extcittive Document No. 07, 49t/i Congress, 1st session. 



ASTRONOMY. 439 

Warner Observatory. — The 16-inch refractor has been used for the 
past three years mainly in the search for new nebulae. A catalogue of 
some 200 faint nebulae has been published. 

Washburn Observatory. — " The third volume of the ' Publications of 
the Washburn Observatory,' lately issued, gives the results of the work 
of 1884. About 1,800 observations were made with the Eepsold meri- 
dian-circle upon the Gesellschaft southern fundamental stars and the 
Leyden Cape of Good Hope refraction-stars. The instrumental con- 
stants are given for each observing day, and an investigation of the 
zeuithdistance micrometer-screw and of the horizontal flexure of the 
instrument. In the cold winter weather of Wisconsin the micrometer- 
springs turned out too weak to pull the slides, and had to be replaced with 
stiffer ones. The probable error of a single declination is now reduced 
to 0"-4, a great improvement over that noted in vol. ii. ; and a correc- 
tion of +0"-30 rt0"-026 to the constant of the ' Pulkowa refractions? 
seems to be called for by the observations of 1884 to suit the atmosphere 
over Madison. Professor Holden expresses his continued satisfaction 
with the Eepsold meridian-circle, and appears to be making a very 
thorough study of it ; and in this his example might well be followed 
with profit by some of our older established observatories. Two deter- 
minations of the latitude by Mr. G. C, Comstock are given — one from 
Professor Holden's and his own observations with the zenith-telescope, 
the other from his own with the prime-vertical transit, using both re- 
flected and direct observations ; the declinations in both cases being 
those of Auwers' system. They come out respectively -i-43o 4' 36"-97± 
0"07 and -f 43° 4' 36" -99 iO" -06, remarkably accordant results. The 
fifth part of the volume is a ' Catalogue of 1,001 southern stars for 18500 
from observations by Signor P. Tacchini, at Palermo, in the years 1867, 
1868, 1869,' by Rev. Father Hagen, S. J., and Edward S. Holden. The 
original observations had never been reduced to mean place, but being 
good ones and in a part of the sky where needed, we have here the 
anomaly of European work reduced and published in this country; and 
Father Hagen and Professor Holden are to be highly commended for 
making it available, while its comparison with Oeltzen's Argelander 
(south) and the Washington zones served to detect many errors in these 
catalogues. The sixth part gives the observations of 437 southern 
stars made with the Washington transit-circle, and also the position of 
the same stars (whenever occurring) from the catalogues of Yarnall, 
Gould's zones, and Stone, all the positions being reduced to 1850.0 by 
Father Hagen. This is the first opportunity for easy comparison on a 
large scale between these four systems of southern declinations, and 
the comparison develops the following important differences of north 
polar-distance : — 

Washington —Yarnall = -f 1"-12 (from 220 stars). 

Washington -Gould (Z. C.) = -4-l"-90 (from 215 stars). 

Washington — Stone = + l''-00 (from 238 stars). 



440 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

- - - "The volume closes with a count of the Durclimusterung 
stars between — 2° and -j- 13°, a determination of the constants of some 
of the other instruments, meteorological observations for 1884, a sum* 
mary of the same as taken at Madicson continuously from 1853 to 1884, 
and is throughout a highly creditable publication." - - - {Science, 
November 20, 1885.) 

Willets Point Observatory. — The astronomical observations made dur- 
ing 1885 were of the same nature as those described at some length for 
the preceding year in the "Account of the Progress in Astronomy in 
1884." The observatory is established for traiuing engineer officers in 
the applications of practical astronomy to geodesy. The course of in- 
struction, as well as the arrangement of the observatory building and 
its equipment (described and illustrated with a plan of the observatory 
in General order jSTo. 3, series of 1881, and Printed order No. 3, series of 
1882), may well be taken as a model in this branch of astronomy. A 
large number of latitude observations made by different observers from 
1880 to 1884, and apparently showing a steady decrease in the latitude 
of the post, has been submitted to a critical discussion by Miss Alice 
Lamb, of the Washburn Observatory. By selecting the best determined 
stars, and by rejecting the observations with one of the instruments, 
and the work of some observers, whose probable errors are about twice 
as large as the probable errors of those whose work is retained, she 
concludes that there is strong reason to attribute the systematic change 
to errors of observation rather than to a real diminution of the latitude. 

Yale College Observatory. — The following is a brief statement of the 
work accomplished or in progress under the direction of Dr. W. L. 
Elkins, who has charge of the heliometer, the only instrument of that 
class, we believe, in operation in this country. 

The principal object of research has been the triangulatiou of the 
Pleiades, to which work the instrument was devoted from September, 
1884, to March, 1885. It was originally intended to confine the investi- 
gation to the stars measured at Konigsberg; the scheme has been ex- 
tended, however, to include all the stars in the Bonn Durchmusterung, 
within certain limits, down to the magnitude 9-2, making sixty-nine stars 
in all. The reductions are in a forward state. 

Other observations are reported : 

Measures of the Moon from neighboring stars, diameters of the Moon, 
diameters of Venus, and the outer ring of Saturn, and a series of ob- 
servations of Titan referred to its primary, which is being continued by 
Mr. A. Hall, jr. 

There have been various additions made to the working appliances 
of the instrument. The oil-lamps illuminating the scales and circles 
have been replaced by half-candle incandescent lamps. The most im- 
portant addition is, however, the registering micrometer, which Messrs. 
Eepsold have made for reading the scales. The principle consists in 



, ASTRONOMY. 441 

impressing on a Morse fillet the figures and divisions of the micrometer 
head along with those of a fixed index. 

The instrument is now being devoted to systematic investigations in 
stellar parallax, and work is progressing, which will furnish, it is hoped, 
reliable values of the parallaxes of the ten stars of the 1st magnitude 
in the Northern Hemisphere referred to neighboring stars of about the 
8th magnitude. 

Zurich. — The sun-spots are assiduously observed here. The maximum 
occurred in December, 1883, to January, 1884. 

ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

Wire-gauze screens as photoiyieters. — " Of late years the use of wire- 
gauze screens, one or more in number, over objectives has come into 
use for several purposes. Over one of the halves of a heliometerobjec- 
tive they are used to reduce the image of a bright star to approximate 
equality with that of a fainter star from the other half, an essential con- 
dition for the most accurate superposition of the two images. With a 
meridian circle they are used to reduce the brighter stars to an approx- 
imate equality with the faintest that can be observed with satisfactory 
jirecision, or to investigate the difference of personal equation for dif- 
ferent magnitudes by taking different tallies of transit-wires, with screen 
oft' and on, at the same transit. In the latter case Professor Holden 
])oints out the necessity {Astron. N'achr. 2690) of changing the illumina- 
tion of the field with the change of screen, so that each magnitude may 
show against its customary degree of color or brilliancy of background. 
Such screens may also be used for photometric purposes when once 
their coefficients of transmission have been determined. Those having 
occasion to use them in this way will do well to consult a paper by Pro- 
fessor Langley [Amer. Journ. Sc, xxx, 210) on this subject. In this it 
is shown that the effective transmission coefficients are decidedly dif- 
ferent according as the luminous image is an extended surface or prac- 
tically a point like a star. In the latter case there is a central image 
surrounded by a system of diffraction images, into which a large part 
of the light goes ; so much so, that Professor Langley found that a screen 
(of which one and two thicknesses transmitted -47 and -21 respectively 
of the full light upon a surface) gave only -18 and '02 for one and two 
thicknesses, respectively, when measured by the brilliancy of the cen- 
tral image of a small jjin-hole as a source of light." (Science.) 

The defining potcer of telescopes. — Quite a warm discussion has been 
going on in the columns of the Observatory and Sidereal Messenger on 
the relative merits of small and large telescopes for the study of plan- 
etary detail. The controversy seems to have arisen from a statement 
by Mr. Denning to the effect that " apertures of from 6 to 8 inches seem 
able to C()mi)ete with the most powerful instruments ever constructed." 
The true state of the case appears to be given in a note by Professor 



442 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Young {Obsermtory, viii: 173, May, 1885): "On the whole, I find also 
true what Mr, Clark told me would be the case on first mounting our 
23-inch instrument, that I can almost ahrays see with the 23inch everything 
I can see with the 9^-inch, under the same atmospheric conditions, and see 
it better; — if the seeing is bad, only a little better, — if good, immensely 
better. The only exceptions are in the case of objects which require a 
very low power, lower than any that can be obtained with the eye-i>ieces 
of the large telescope." 

The great Pulkoica refractor. — "M. Struve was chiefly occupied during 
the year with work incidental to tlie installation of the great 30-incli 
refractor. It was anticipated that by September, 1884, things would 
be in such a state that it would be possible to begin to observe with 
this gigantic instrument; but, owing to various delays, chiefly connected 
with the construction of the dome, it was not until the end of Septem- 
ber that the Eepsolds could be invited to come to Pulkowa to superin- 
tend the work of erecting the telescope; this was accomplished very 
successfully by them in about three weeks. And M. Struve expresses 
himself as greatly pleased with the ease with which the telescope can 
he set, with the equality of the illumination on all its parts from a sin- 
gle lamp, with the accuracy with which the driving-clock performs, and 
with the facilities for altering the telescope into a powerful spectroscope; 
so that this great instrument may be regarded as the successful out- 
come of the highest skill of modern art in this department. Further 
work on the dome was interrupted by the approach of winter. - - • 
At present the dome is moved by hand ; it is hoped, howev^er, that this 
may eventually be done by electricity, and that a motive power will 
thus be obtained sufficient to overcome the hindrances to the rotation 
of the dome arising "from snow and frost. From investigations made 
by H. Struve it appears that the position of the polar axis is correct to 
a fraction of a minute, that the change in focal length of the instrument 
during the winter is but trifling, and that, notwithstanding the great 
weight of the object-glass and of the eye-end, the flexure of the tele- 
scope is so small as to be practically insensible. M. Struve proposes to 
use the great refractor for observing such double-stars as. are beyond 
the reach of the 15-inch equatorial, and to undertake observations of 
certain interesting nebulae, as well as spectroscopic researches on stars 
in cases where the great optical power of the instrument will make the 
observations of special value." {Observatory.) 

" Science " (vi : 306) publishes a letter from Dr. Otto Struve to Alvan 
Clark & Sons, from which we make the following extract : "I am asked 
by the Government to inform you that, in acknowledgment of the ex- 
cellent performances of the great object-glass furnished for Pulkowa 
by your firm, His Majesty the Emperor has been graciously pleased to 
confer upon you the golden honorary medal of the empire. The value 
of this gift is enhanced by the circumstance that this medal is given 



ASTRONOMY. 443 

very rarely and only for quite extraordinary merits. You iind Repsold 
are the first who will receive it from the present Emperor, Alexander 
III." - - - 

"You will be pleased to hear that Avith the 30-inch refractor in good 
nights all the most difficult double-stars discovered by Burnhum with 
the Washington refractor can be easily measured." 

IHumination by means of the electric light. — In regard to the applica- 
tion of electricity to illuminating the microscopes and field of view of 
a large fixed instrument, Dr. Gill, of the Ccipe Observatory, says: 
"Electric illumination by small incandescent lamps has been applied 
with complete success to the microscopes and field of the great theodo- 
lite with which the azimuth observations are made. The electricity is 
supplied to the lamps from a storage battery, which is charged dur- 
ing daytime two or three times a week by a small Grove battery. The 
success of the experiment has been complete. The whole arrangement 
is so simple, clean, and convenient, and the advantages to accuracj^ of 
observation by perfect uniformity of light, freedom from flicker, glare, 
and heat can only be fully appreciated after trial." 

Method of supporting a mercury trough for refection ohservations. * — 
" The observation of the nadir has^itherto been almost impossible at 
the Paris Observatory, owing to the disturbance of the mercury caused 
by the traffic in the neighboring streets. Lately, however, M. Gautier 
has devised a very simple arrangement by which this is obviated. The 
new apparatus consists of two cylindrical basins placed one above the 
other, the lower one, which contains the supply of mercury, having a 
slightly larger diameter than the upper. The bottom of the lower basin 
is pierced at its center to admit a screw which projects in a vertical di- 
rection into the inside and is fixed in that position. A cylinder, fixed 
as an axis to the bottom of the smaller basin, is tapped to fit the pro- 
jecting screw, and thus, by turning this basin round its axis, it can be 
raised or lowered in the larger vessel so as to obtain a supply of mer- 
cury in it (by means of an opening provided for the purpose) sufficient 
for observation, whilst the oscillations of the ground. Admiral Mouchez 
states in the paper before us, are completely counteracted by the 'demi- 
flottage' of the second basin." [Observatory.) 

Hough'' sprinting chronograph. — At the Ann Arbor meeting of the Ameri - 
can Association, Professor Hough read a paper on the printing chrono- 
graph that he has invented. He has given a description of the instru- 
ment in his report as director of the Dearborn Observatory for 1885. The 
instrument is designed to print on a fillet of paper, minutes, seconds, and 
hundredths of seconds, indicated by the clock w^hich controls it, at any 
instant that an observing key is closed by the observer's finger. The 
impression is made from the surface of three continuously running type 
wheels, the swiftest of which revolves once per second. The recent im- 



"Bull. Astron., 2 : 549; also (abetr.), Eng. Mechan., 42 : 488. 



444 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

provements consist in engraved type on the face of the wheels in place 
of the rubber ones used at first, and of the substitution of a direct blow 
by an electro-magnet upon the type wheel fillet, thus making the appa- 
ratus much more light and comjDact than the old form. The mean of 
the seconds and hundredths may be taken directly on the fillet without 
transference to books. Professor Hough states that the instrument has 
proved perfectly reliable. 

Flexure of transit instruments. — At the same meeting of the American 
Association a paper was presented by Professor Harkness on the gen- 
eral subject of the flexure of transit instruments. Professor Harkness's 
thorough investigation of this subject has just been published as Ap- 
pendix III to the "Washington Observations" for 1882. 

Optical works of Feil & Mantois. — We learn from L' Astronomie that 
M. Charles Feil has, after some years' absence, returned to the active 
management of his celebrated manufactory of optical glass in Paris, the 
new firm beiug "Feil pere et Mantois." M. Feil is grandson of M. Gui- 
naudjthe founder of the house in 1827. The new firm succeeded in ob- 
taining a crown disk of the requisite size for the Lick 3G-inch glass, 
having already furnished to MM. Henry the disk for the 30-inch objec- 
tive for the Nice Observatory. 

Micrometer. — Mr. Chandler contributes to vohime 11 of the Memoirs 
of the American Academy a valuable paper on the "Square-bar mi- 
crometer. " 

MISCELLANEOUS. < 

Astronomical prizes. — The Lalande prize of the Paris Academic des 
Sciences has been decreed to M. Thollon for his great map of the solar 
spectrum. This map, which has so far demanded four years of uninter- 
rupted work, extends from A to &, and contains 3,200 lines, 900 of which 
M. Thollon has been able to identify as of telluric origin. The Damoi- 
seau prize is reserved, no memoir liaving been offered for it. The sub- 
ject proposed is the same as in former years — a revision of the theory 
of the satellites of Jupiter, a discussion of observations with special 
reference to the direct determination of the velocity of light, and 
lastly, the construction of particular tables for each satellite. The 
Valz prize has been awarded to Dr. Sporer for his researches on sun 
spots, his discovery of the striking relationship between the distribu- 
tion of the spots in latitude and the epochs of their maxima and minima 
receiving special notice. {Nature.) 

The award of the Draper medal, made for the first time, was most 
appropriately bestowed on Prof. S. P. Langley, of Allegheny, for his re- 
searches and discoveries in solar radiation. 

The Warner prizes awarded in 1885 were two, of $200 each, to Mr. 
E. E. Barnard, for the discovery of Comet 1885 II, and Comet e 1885, 
and two, of $200 each, to Mr. W. R. Brooks, for the discovery of Comets 
1885 III, and 1885 V. Mr. Warner has just given four prizes, aggre- 



ASTRONOMY. 445 

gating $450, for essays on the remarkable "red sunsets" which have been 
prevalent during the past few years, and medals have been awarded 
to a number of other competitors. The total amount that has been 
awarded by Mr. Warner for astronomical prizes since 1880, including a 
small amount for the expenses of judges, is $3,750. The Warner comet 
prize is continued from March 1, 1886, to March 1, 1 887. It is reduced to 
$100, but is open to the world. 

On the apparent increase of size of the sun, moon, and constellations 
when seen at the horizon. (From the Bulletin de VAcadSmie royale 
de Belgique.) — "The apparent increase of the diameter of the sun 
or moon is ordinarily attributed to the elliptical form of the celes- 
tial sphere. According to the author this explanation was given as 
early as the eleventh century in the Optics of Alhazen. But by experi- 
ments, comparing in a dark room the distances of two electric sparks 
at the height of thfe eye and near the ceiling, M. Stroobant was led to 
the conclusion that any object seen in the zenith appears only eight- 
tenths as large as when seen at the horizon. But there is another fac- 
tor which should be taken into account, that is, the variable brightness 
of the star. The author thinks that a special study should be made of 
these very interesting physiological phenomena." {Bull. Astron., April, 
1885.) 

Sammlung populaerer Astronomische Mittheilungen. — The eminent di- 
rector of the Berlin Observatory HerrFoerster, has collected in this vol- 
ume a series of scientific notices of a popular character, which have ap- 
peared since 1880 in successive volumes of the official calendar {Normal- 
Kalender). It contains a clear exposition of the state of our knowledge 
of the fixed stars, their distances, and their distribution in space ; an 
article upon the limits of our perceptions of celestial objects ; some in- 
teresting remarks upon the auroras, the zodiacal light, and the recent 
comets. In reviewing these notices, we are struck with the multiplicity 
and the importance of the problems offered us by modern astronomy, 
and are tempted to ask, with Herr Foerster, if the number of those at 
work at these problems is not becoming too small for the task. 

An index to astronomical literature. — The need of some systematic 
index to the current literature of astronomy (to say nothing of the 
desired extension of the Koyal Society's catalogue, or the completion 
of Houzeau's work) is more strongly felt year by year ; and the diflSculty 
is aggravated by the poor and insufficient indexes furnished with most 
astronomical publications. General periodical literature is provided for 
by Poole's Index, which is kept up to date by the Co-operative Index 
to Periodicals ; and a committee of the American Association on index- 
ing chemical literature reports each year favorable j^rogress. It seems 
highly desirable that some similar cooperation should be organized 
^mong astronomers. 



446 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



ASTRONOMICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1885. 

Following is a list of the principal books of the year, compiled largely from the 
excellent Naturae Novitates of R. Friedliinder & Sohn, Berlin. Reprints from trans- 
actions and periodicals are frequently included. The prices quoted are in German 
marks (4 marks equal to $1, very nearly), and are those given by Friedliinder. 

Acta Mathf.matica. — Zeitschrift, hersg. v. G. Mittag-Leffler. Bd. 5. Stockholm, 
1885. 4to. 12 

Same. Bd. 6. 12 

Addresses at the complimentary dinner to Dr. Benjamin Apthorp Gould. May 6, 
1885. Lynn, 1885. 40 p. 8vo. 

Airy (G. B.). — Gravitation; an elementary explanation of the principal perturba- 
tions in the solar system. 2 ed. London, 1885. 186 p. 8vo. 7.80 

Albrecht (Th.). — Bestimmungen der Liinge des Secundenpendels in Leipzig, Dres- 
den u. dem Abrahamachacht bei Freiberg, in den Jahren 1869-71 ausgefiihrt. 
Berlin, 1885. 4to. 5 

Almanacii de I'Observatoire royal de Bruxelles. Ann^e 52,1885. Bruxelles, 1885. 
374 p. 16mo. 1.50 

American Academy. — Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Cen- 
tennial volume. (Vol. XI, part 2, No. 1.) Cambridge, 1885. 4to. 

Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. New series, 

vol. 12. (Whole series, vol. 20, from May, 1884, to May, 1885. ) Boston, 1885. 8vo. 

American Association. — Proceedings of the. American A.8SOciation for the Advance- 
ment of Science. Philadelphia, 1884. Vol.;53. Salem, 1885. 95+ 736 p. 8vo. 

American Astronomical Society. — Papers. No. 1. Brooklyn, 1885. 32 p. 8vo. 

American Epiiemeris and Nautical Almanac for the year 1888. 1st ed. Washing- 
ton, 1885. 519 p.+ 4to. 

American Ephemeris. — Astronomical papers, prepared for the use of the American 

Ephemeris and NauticalAlmauac. Vol. ii, parts 3, 4. Washington, 1885. p. 107- 

258, with 8 plates. 4to. 7. 50 

Cont. : Newcomb andMichelson, Measuresof the velocity of light, made 1880-82. 

Astronomical papers, prepared for the use of the American Ephemeris and Nau- 
tical Almanac. Vol. Ill, parts 2, 3, 4. Washington. 1884. p. 201-371. 4to. 10 
Cont. : Hill, Ijunar inequalities due to the ellipticity of the earth. Newcomb, 
On the motion of Hyperion. Hill, Lunar inequalities due to the action of 
Jupiter. 

American Journal of Mathematics. Vol. i-vi. (Vol.i very rai'e.) 

American Philosophical Society. — Early proceedings, from 1744 to 1838. Com- 
piled by one of the secretaries, with full indexes and phototypic illustrations. 
Philadelphia, 1885. 875 p. 8vo. 25 

Analyst (The), including the proceedings of the " Society of Public Analysts." Ed. 
by G. W. Wigner and J. Muter. Vol. 10 (12 nos.). London, 1885. Roy. 8vo. 6.50 

Annalen (Mathomatische). In Verbindung m. C. Neumann begTiind. d. R. F. A. 
Clebsch. Hersg. v. F. Klein u. A. Mayer. Band 25 (4 Hefte). Leipzig, 1885. 
8vo. 20 

Same. Band 26 (4 Helte). Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 20 

\nnales du Bureau des Longitudes. Travaux faits a I'Observatoire astronomique 

de Montsouris (Section navale) et M6moires divers. Tome iii. Paris, 1885. G 

-f 506 p. 4to. 21 

Annales Nouvelles des Math6niatiques. Red. p. G^rono et Brisse. Ann6e 1885. 

(S6rie v, tome 4) en 12 nrs. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 15 

Annals of mathematics, pure and applied. Edited by O. Stone and W. M. Thornton. 

University of Virginia. Year 2 (6 nrs.), 1885. 4to. IC 

Continuation of the "Analyst," formerly published by J. C. Hendricks. 



ASTRONOMY. 447 

Annuaire <1u Biireiiu dos Longitudes pour I'ann^e 1886. Paris [1886?]. 924 p. 

4to. II lust r. 1.70 

Cout. : Faye, Les 13 Tornados des 29 et '30 Mai, 1879, aux fitats-Unis. 
Anuario del Observatorio Astronomico nacional de Tacubaya para el afio de 1885. 

Mexico, 1884. 12mo. 12 

Astronomical Register. — Vol. 23. Year 1885 (12 nrs.). London, 1885, 7+300 p. 

8vo. 12.50 

L'Astronumie. Revue mensuelle d'Astronouiie populaire, de M6t^orologie et de Phy- 
sique du Globe, publ. p. C. Flammarion. Ann^e 4, 1885 (12 nrs.). Paris, 1885. 

488 p. Imp. 8vo. lUustr. 12 

Atti della R. Accademia dei Lincei, 1883-84. Memorie della Classe di Scienze fisiche, 

matematiche e naturali. Vol. 17. Roma, 1884. 60-|-619 p. 4to. 34 

Cont. : Dembowski, Misuro micrometriche di Stelle Doppie e Multiple, fatte 
negli anni 1852-78. Vol. ii. 
Backlund (O.). — Ueber d. Anwendung einer von P. Tschebyschew vorgescMagenen 

Interpolationsmethode. (St. Petersb. Acad.) 1885. 30 p. Roy. 8vo. 1 

Bakhuyzen (H. G. van de Sande). — Untersuchungen liber die Rotationszeit des 

Planeten Mars, und iiber Anderungen seiner Flecks. Ann. d. Sternwart. in Lei- 
den 7. [1885.] 
Ball (R. S.). — The storj' of the heavens. London, 1885. 544 p., 16 pi., 90 woodcuts. 

8vo. 3.70 

Berlin. Astronomisch-geodiitische Arbeiten in den Jahren 1883-'84, hersg. v. kgl. 

geodiit-Institut zu Berlin. Berlin, 1885. 4to. 13.50 

Cont. : Bestimmungen der Langendiflferenzen Berlin-Swinemiiude, Kiel-Swine- 
milnde, Swinemiiude-Konigsberg, Konigsb.-Warschau u. Berlin-Warschau. 
Boeddicker (O.). — On the changes of the radiation of heat from the moon, during 

the total eclipse of 1884, October 4, as measured at the observatory, Birr Castle. 

So. Trans. Roy. Dub. Soc. vol. 3 (2s), p. 321-32. 2 pi. (1885.) 
BoLETiN de la Academia Nacional de Ciencias en C6rdoba (Repitblica Argentina). 

Tomo VI, entrega 4. Buenos Ayres, 1884. p. 351-516, 49-64. p. Roy. 8vo. 4 

Cont.: Doering, O., Observat. m^t^orol. faites h Cordoba pend. I'a. 1883. 
Knopf, O., Deterrainaci6n de la latitud de alg. lugares de la Republ. Argen- 
tina. Peter, B., Informe s. las Observac. del paso de Venus, pract. p. la Co- 
mi8i6n Astron. Alemana en Bahia Blanca. 
Bolton (H. C). — Catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals 1665-1882, in aU 

languages. Washington, 1885. 783 p. Roy. 8vo. 
5,100 titles of scientific periodicals. 
Bordeaux Observatory. — Annales de I'Observatoire de Bordeaux, publ. p. Rayet. 

Tome I. Bordeaux, 1885. 4to. 25 

Brown (A. D.) and Winterhalter (A. G.). — Annular eclipse of the sun, March 15- 

16, 1885. (Wash. Obsns., 1882, App.ii.) Washington, 1855. 34 p., 1 pi. 4to, 
Bulletin Astronomique, dirig6 p. Tisseraud, G. Bigourdan, O. Callandreau et R. 

Itadau. Ann^e 2, 1885 (en 12 livrais). Paris, 1885. 611 p. 8vo. 16 

Bulletin des Sciences Math^matiques et Astrouomiques, r6dig. p. Darboux, Houel et 

Tannery. Ann^e 1885 (S^rie II, tome 9). Paris, 1885. Roy. 8vo. 18 

Bulletin hebdomadaire de I'Association Scientifique de France, fondd p. Le Ver- 

rier, publ. s. la dir. du president de la Soci6t6. Ann^e 1885. (S^rie II, tomes 10 

et 11.) Paris, 1885. 8vo. 17 

Bredichin (Th.). — Revision des vahiurs num^riques de la force rt^pulsive. Moscou, 

1885. 36 p. 8vo. 1.50 

Quelques formules de la th^orie des Com^tes. Moscou, 1884. 14 p. 8vo. 1 

Sur les tfites des Comfetes. Moscou, 1885. 8 p., 2 fig. 8vo. 0.60 

Sur la grande ComMe de 1811. Moscou, 1885. 12 p., 1 pi. 8vo. 1 

Sur les oscillations des jets d'^mission dans les Gemotes. (Moscou, Bull. d. 

Nat., 1885.) 25 p., 1 pi. 8vo. 1.50 



448 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 

Cape catalogue of 4,810 stars for 1850. [London, 1884.] 17+215 p. Roy. 8v(). 
Carrington (R. C). — Charts of circumpolar stars. Ten charts, published by the 

Meteorological Oifice. London, 1885. Fol. 
Cell^rier (G.).—Concours national de Compensation des Cbronometres pour les Tem- 
peratures. M6thode de Classement, Calcul des Bulletins et Etude numdrique de 

I'erreursecondaire decompensation. Geneve, 1885. Avec lij)!. Roy. 4to. 16 
Chambers (G. F.). — Hints on the construction and equipment of observatories for 

^ amateurs (ill.). Nature, 33 : 56-60 (1885). 
Chandler (S. C), jr. — On the square bar micrometer. Mem. Am. Acad., 11 : 158-77 

(1885). 
Chauvenet (W.). — Spherical aud practical astronomy (University edition). With 

an appendix on the method of least squares. 5th ed., revised and corrected. 2 vols. 

Philadelphia, 1885. 8vo. 34 

Chicago Astronomical Society.— Annual report of the board of directors, to- 
gether with the report of the director of the DeaAorn Observatory, 1885. Chicago, 

1885. 16 p., 2 pi. 8vo. 
CiEL ET Terre. — Revue populaire d'Astronomie et de M6t6orologie. Ann6e 1885. 

Bruxelles, 1885. 8vo. 8 

Clarke (H.W.).— The Sextant, London, 1885. 44 p. 16mo. 2.20 

Clerke (Agnes M.). — Popular history of astronomy during the nineteenth century. 

London, 1885. 480 p. 8vo. 13 

Coffin (J. H. C). — Reports of observations of the total eclipse of the sun, August 7, 

1869, made by parties under the general direction of Prof. J. H. C. Coffin, U. S. N., 

Superintendent of the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac. [Washington, 

1885.] 2+158 p., 10 pi. 4to. 
Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des Stances de rAcad6niie des Sciences. Ann6e 

1885. (Torae§ 100 et 101 en 52 nrs.) Paris, 1885. 4to. 29.50 

Conference (International) held at Washington [1884] for the purpose of fixing a 

prime meridian and a uniform day. Protocols of the proceedings. Washing- 
ton, 1884. 212 p. 8vo. 
Conference Internationale tenue a Washington pour I'adoptiou d'un premier m6ri- 

dien unique et d'uue heure universelle. Octobre, 1884. Proc6s-verbaux des 

Stances. Washington, 1884, 216 p. 8vo. 
CONNAISSANCE DES temps iJour I'an 1887. Paris, 1885. 5+808+127 p. 8vo. 
Crawford (Lord). — Determinations of longitude and latitude during the Mauritius 

Expedition, 1874. Dun Echt, 1885. 12+519 p., 2 pi. Roy. 4to. 25 

Dembowski (E.). — Misure micrometriche di Stelle Doppie e Multiple fatte negli Anni 

1852-'78. Vol. II. Roma, 1885. 4to. 34 

•. Same. Vol. i. 1883. 22 

DoBERCK (W.). — Markree Observatory. (From "The Observatory" 1884.) 8 p. 

8vo. 1 
. Observations and researches made at the Hong-Kong Observatory in the 

year 1884. Hong-Kong, 1885, 218 p. fol. 10 

Doolittle (C. L.). — A treatise on practical astronomy, as applied to geodesy and 

navigation. New York, 1885. 10+642 p. 8vo. 
Dublin Society (Royal). — Scientific transactions. Vol. in, p. 1-6. Dublin, 1884- 

'85. 300 p., 5 pi. 4to. 16 

Dun Echt Observatory, publications. Vol. in. Mauritius Expedition, 1874. 

Division II. Determinations of longitude and latitude. Dun Echt, 1885. 12+ 

519 p., 2 pi. 4to. 25 

Dun^r(N. C). — Sur les ^toiles ^ spectres de la troisifeme classe. Stockholm, 1885. 

137 p., 1 pi. 4to. 
DuNSiNK Observatory. — Astronomical observations and researches made at Dunsink, 

the observatory of Trinity College, Dublin. Published by R. S. Ball. Part 5. 

Dublin, 1884. 244 p., 2 pi. 4to. 12 



ASTRONOMY. 449 

DUPUIS (n.). — Tables de LogaritLmes it, cinq D^cimalee, d'aprfes J. de Lalande. 
Paris, 1885. 4+230 p. 12mo. 2 

DuPUls (J.)' — Tables do Logarilhmes h sept d<5cimale8 d'aprfes Bremiker, Callet, V6ga, 
&c. Edit. 8t6r<5otype. 10. tirage. Paris, 1885. 12+580 p. 8vo. 7.50 

EcKUARDT (C. L. p.). — Neue Sterukarte. Nen bearb. v. W. Soldan. 6. Aufl. Gics- 
son, 1885. Fol. litliogr. in Carton. 4 

EsriN (T. n. E.). — Elementary star atlas; a series of 12 simple star maps with de- 
scriptive letter-press. Preface by J. A. Westwood Oliver. London, 1885. Roy. 
8vo. 1.70 

EuROPAiscHE Gradmessung. — Astronomisch-geodatiscbe Arbeiten fiir die euro- 
piiisclie Gradmessuug im Kouigr. Sachsen. Abtheilg. iii. Die astronomischen 
Arbeiten. AusgefUbrt nntor Leitang v. C. Bnibns, bearbeit. v. Th. Albrecht. 
Hoft 2. Berlin, 1885. 4to. 12 

. Same. Heft 1. 1883. 10 

Fa YE (H.). — Snr POrigine du Monde. Theories cosmog6niques des Anciens et des 
Modernes. Paris, 1884. 260 p., 22 Fig. 8vo. 4.50 

Feli-OWEs (F.). — Astronomy for beginners. New York, 1885. 135 p. 12mo. illus- 
trated. 3 

Fischer (A. L.). — Die Sonnenflecken und das Wetter. Heft 4. Beobachtungen seit 
1 Juli 1883. Erfurt, 1885. 8vo. 1.60 

. Same. Heft 1-3. 5 

FiJk.MMARiON (C). — Contemplations scientifiques. (S6rie i.) 4 6dit. Paris, 1885. 
12+456 p. 16mo. 3.50 

Les Merveilles c61estes. Lectures dn Soir. 8 6dit. Paris, 1885. 6+359 p. 

avec 87 vign. et 2 cartes. 12mo. 2.20 

FoRSTEK (A.). — Studien zur Entwicklungsgeschicbte des Souneusystems. Stuttgart, 
1885. 8+60 p., 5 Fig. 8vo. 2.60 

FOrster (W.). — Populiire Mittheihingen znm astronomischen Theiie deskonigl. preus- 
sischeu Normalkalouflers fiir 1886. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 1 

FOrster and Lehmann (P.). — Die veriinderlichen Tafelu des astronomischen nud 
cbronologischen Theiles des konigl. preussischen Norraalkalenders fur 1886. Ber- 
lin, 18fc5. 8vo. 5 

Fortschritte (Die) der Astronomie 1885. (Nr. 11.) Red, H. J. Klein. Koln, 1885. 
8vo. 1-80 

Fritz (H.).— Die Sonne. Zurich, 188.5. 32p..lTfl. 4to. 

Galle (J. G.). — Uebernicht liber die Bahn-Elomente der seit dem Jahre 1860 erschie- 
nenen Cometen, sowie iiber nen berechnete oder verbesserte Bahnen von Cometeu 
der friihereu Zeit. Astron. Xachr., 112 : 1-26; 113 : 55 (1885). 

Gauss (F. G.). — Fiinfstellige voUstiindige logarithmiscbe nndtrigouometrische Tafelu. 
23. Aufl. Halle, 1885. 8vo. ' 2 

Geelmuyden (H.). — Undersogelso af Parallaxen af en Stjerne i den store Bjorn og 
nogle Bemaerkuinger om det dertil anvendte Mikrometer. Christiania, 1885. 19 
p., 1 Fig. 8vo. 0.70 

Giornale di Scieuze natnrali ed economiche, pubbl. d. Societil di Scienze naturali 
ed economiche di Palermo. Vol. 16, 1883-'84. Palermo, 1884. 245 + 203 p 
4to. 16 

Cont. : Di Stefano, S. altri fossili d. Titanio inferiore di Sicilia. Cardani, S. 
alcune figure ottenute p. elettrolisi. Ricco, Riassunto d. osservazioni astro- 
fisiche solari escguite nell' Osservatorio di Palermo nel 1;^82. Zona, Coordi- 
nate geografiche e costruzione di una grande moridiana a tempo vero e medio 
in Castiglione Etneo. . . . 

Gore (J. E.). — A catalogue of known variable stars, with notes and observations. 
Dublin, 1884. 8vo. 2 

A catalogue of suspected variable stars, with notes and observations. Dublin 

(Proc. R. Ir. Ac), 1885. Bvo. ^ 8 

H. Mis. 15 29 



4')() SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Gould (B. a.). — Resultados del Observatorio Nacional Argentino en C6rdoba. Vol. 3. 
Obfservaciones de Zonas d'ano 1873. Buenos Aires, 1884. 510 p. 4to. 2r> 

Resultados del Obsetvatorio Nacional Ai'gentino en C6rdoba. Vol. 7,8; Cata- 

logo de las Zonas Estelares. Cordoba, 1884. 4to. 

Grubb (H.). — On a new form of equatorial telescope. Dublin (Roy. Soc), 1884. 
4to. illustr. 2.M 

Gruey. — Legous d'Astronomie. Besaugon, 1885. Volume lithogiaphi^ de 368 p, 
4to. 16 

Gyld6n(H. ). — Gruuddragen af en enkel method aft losa atskilliga problem i den 
analytiska mekauiken. (Stockholm) 1884. 24 p. 8vo. 1.50 

Hall (A.).— The orbits of Oberon and Titania. (Wash. Obsns., 1881, App. i.) Wash- 
ington, 1885. 33 p. 4to. 

Orbit of the satellite of Neptune. (Wash. Obsns., 1881, App, ii.) Washington, 

1885. 27 p. 4to. 

The orbit of lapetus. (Wash. Obsns., 1882, App. i.) Washingtcm, 1885. 82 p. 



4to. 
Harvard College Observatory. — Annals of the Astronomical Observatory of Har- 
vard College. Vol. XIV, in 2 parts. Cambridge, 1885. 512 p. Roy. 4to. 

Catalogue of 1,213 star-s. Cambridge, 1884. 7 + 93 p 4to. 

Report (40th annual) of the director, by Edward C. Pickering. Deevniber 3, 

1885. Cambridge, 1886. 13 p. 8vo. 

Henrici (J.). — Die Erforschuug der Schwere durch Galilei, Hnygens, Newton als 
Gruudlage der rationellen Kinematik u. Dynamik historisch-didaktisch darge- 
stellt. Leipzig, 1885. 40 p., 6 Fig. 4to. 1.80 

vox Hepperoer (J.). — Ueber die Verschiebung desVereiniguugspunktesder Strahlen 
beim Durchgauge eines Strahlenbiischels monochromatischeu Lichtes durch eiii 
Prisma niit gerader Dnrchsicht. Wi en, 1885. 27 p.,2 Holzschn. 8vo. 0.,50 

Ueber Kriimmnugsversuche nnd Dispersion von Prismen. Wien, 1885. 40 p., 

8 Holzschn. 8vo. • ' 0.80 

Herz (N.). — Entwicklnug der storeuden Kriifte nach Vielfachen dermittleren Anoma- 
lien in indepeudenter Form. Wieu, 1885. 46 p. 8vo. 0.80 

Siebenstellige Logarithmen der trigonometrischen Funktionen fUr jede Zeit- 

secuude des Quadrauten. Znm astronomischen Gebrauch. Leipzig, 18":5. 8vo. 4 

HiLDE&HEiMER (L.). — Alphabetisches Verzeichuiss der sich in .J. Schmidt's Moud- 

charte betiudlicheu Objecte. Odessa, 1885. 10 p. 8vo. 
HiLL(G. W.). — Determination of the inequalities of the moon's motion, which are 

produced by the figure of the earth ; a supplement toDelaunay's Lunar Theory. 

Astron. Papers Am. Ephem., 3: 205-344 (part 2, 1884). 8 
On certain lunar inequalities due to the action of Jupiter and discovered by 

Mr. E. Neisou. Aatron. Papers Am. Ephem., 3: 377-393 (part 4, 1885). 
HOLDEN (E. S.). — An account of the progress of astronomy in the year 1884. (From 

the Smithsonian Report for 1884.) Washington, 1885. 55 p. 8vo. 

Publications ofthe Washburn Observatory. Vol. in. Madison, 1885. 139 ]i. Svo. 

Report of Eclipse expedition to Caroline Island, May, 1883. Mem. JVo^ Acad. 

2: 16-146 (1884). 
HouzEAU (J. C). — Passage de V^nus du 6 D6c. 1882. Partie 1: Expose des rc- 

sultats des observations faites aux Stations Beiges, a I'aide d'H^liometres a fo- 
yers in^gaux. Bruxelles, 1884. 35 p. 4to. 4 
HuGGiNS (W.).— On the corona ofthe sun. (Bakerian lecture.) Proceedivgt! Ruiitil 

Society, 39: 108-135. (1885.) 
HuYGHENS (Chr.). — Traits de la Inmifere avec un discours de la cause de la pesan- 

teur. (New edition of this extremely rare and still very valuable book by W. 

Burckhardt.) 1885. 
Index to periodicals (The Co-operative) for 1885. Edited by W. I. Fletcher. Vol. 

I. New York, 1886. 6 -f 111 p. 8vo. 



ASTRONOMY. -t.")l 

Irish Academy (Royal). Proceedings. Vol. IV, Nr. 1, 2. Dublin, 1884. '27rt-j-22 

p. 8vo. 
. Transactions. Vol. 28 (science), part 14-17. Dublin, 1884. Roy. 4to. (i.oO 

IsRAKL-HoLTZWART (K.). — Eleuieiite der theorctiscben Astronouiie. Abtheiluug 1 : 
Theorie der elliptischen Bewegungund der Bahnbestimmnng. Wiesbaden, 1885. 
8 + 184 p. 8vo. fi.40 

Same. Abtheilg. 2: Berechnung der Finsternisse. Meteorbabnen. Stellastro- 

nouiie. Wiesbaden, 1885. 8 + 168 p. 8vo. .").60 

Jahrbuch (Berliner Astronomisches) fiir 1887, mit Epbenierideu der Planeten 1-237 
fur 1885. Hersg. v. der Sternwarte, unter Leit. v.F. Tietjeu. Berlin, 1885. 8 + 
480 + 51 p. 8vo. 12 

Jahrbuch (Nautiaches), oder Epbenieriden uud Tafeln fur das Jahr 1888 zur Be- 
stiniiunug der Zeit, Lange u. Breite zur See nacb astrouomiscben Beobacb- 
tungen. Hersg. vom Reicbsaint des Innern. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 1.5U 

Jordan (W.). — Grundziige der astronomiscben Zeit- und Ortsbestinamuug. Berlin, 
1885. 7 -f 390 p. 8vo. zablr. Holzscbn. 10 

JoRNAii de Sciencias Mathematicas e Astronomicas, publ. p. F. Gomes Teixeira. 

Vol. IV. Coimbra, 1883-'84. 192 p. 8vo. 14 

Cont. : Da Silva, Formules uouvelles s. les racines des Equations algebraiques; 

Rodrigues, La formula de Lagrange; Pereira, Sobre algunas intergraes in- 

detinitas. Monteiro, M6moires de g^om6trie, etc. 

Journal de Matb^matiqnes 616mentaire8 et sp^ciales. Diiig. p. J. Bourget et Koeb- 
ler. Ann^e 1885(12nr8.). Paris, 1885. 8vo. 15 

Journal de Math^matiques pnres et appliqn6es fond6 p. Liouville et r^dig. p. R^sal. 
Ann6e 1885. (S6rie III, Tome XI, en 12 nrs.) Paris, lb85. 4to. 27 

Journal fiir die reine und angewandte Matbematik. Hersg. v. L. Kronecker u. K. 
Weierstrass. Berlin, 4. Jabrg. 1885. Band 98 u. 99. (8Hefte.) Jeder Band 12. 

Journal of tbe Liverpool Astronomical Society. Vol. iii. (October, 1884, to Sep- 
tember, 1885.) Liverpool, 1885. 8vo. 
Kempf (P.). — Meteorologiscbe Beobachtuno;en in den Jabren 1881 bis 1883 auf<Iem 

Astropliysikaliscben Observatorium bei Potsdam. Leipzig, 1885. 147 j). 4t.o. 7 
Klee (F.). — Unser Sonnensystem. 2, mit einem Nachtrag versehene Anfl. Mainz, 

1885. 8vo. 1.75 

Knowledge, an illustrated magazine of science, art, and literature. Edit, by R. 

A. Proctor. Vol. V, 1885. (52 nrs.) London, 1885. 4to. 11 

Koch (K. R.). — Ueber eine Metbode, die Mikrometerscbraube zu prUfen. (Leipz., 

Ann. d.Pbys.) 1883. 2 p. 8vo. 0.30 

KowALSKi (M.). — Observations des 6toiles de la zone entre 75° et 80° de d^clinaisou 

bor^ale, es6cut6es a I'Observatoire de I'Universit^ Imp^riale de Kasan. Tome i. 

Kasau, 1885. 10 + 739 p. 4to. 
Krueger (A.). — Zonenbeobachtungen der Steme zwiscben .55 u. 65 Grad nordlicber 

Declination angestellt an den Sternwarten zu Helsingfors u. Gotba. Band II : 

Entbiilt die Zoneu 330 bis 722 nebst den mittleren Oertern der Sterne fiir 1875. 

Helsingfors, 1885. 32 -f- 400 p. 4to. cart. 20 

Same. Band i: Enthalt die Zonen l-'-iSH nebst den mittleren Oertern der 

Sterne fiir 1875. 20 

Lamont (J.). — Astronomisch-geodatiscbe Bestimmungeu, ansgefUbrt an einigen 
Hanptpnnktcn des bayeriscben Dreiecksuetzes. Miinc ben, 1885. 8vo. 3 

Langley (S. p. ).^Researcbe8 on solar heat and its absorption by tbe earth's atmos- 
phere. Report of tbe Mount Whitney expedition, prepared under tbe direction 
of W. B. Hazen Washington, 1885. 242 p. 4to. (Maps, plates, and wood 
outs.) 



452 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Langley (S. p.)- Experimental determination of wave-lengths in the invisible 

prismatic spectrum. Mem. Nat. Acad., 2: 149-162. (1884.) 
Observations on invisible beat-epectra and the recognition of hitherto un- 
measured wave-lengths, made at the Allegheny Observatory. 4 pi. Am. J. Se., 

M: 1-12. (1886.) 
Lersch ( B. M. ). — Ueber die symmetrischen Verhliltnisse des Planeten-Systems. Neue 

vollstiindig umgearb. Aufl. zweier 1879-80 erachienenen Abhandlungen. Koln, 

1885. 59 p. 8vo. 1.60 

VON LiTTROW (C. L.). — Wnnder des Himmels. 7. Aufl., bearb. v. E. Weiss. Berlin, 

1885. 8vo. Liefg. 34-42. Jede Liefg. 0.50 

LoRENZONi (G.). — L'Insegnamento di Astronomia e Meteore del prof. L. Riva, e i Docu- 

menti relativi alia Fondazione dell'Osservatorio astronomico di Padova. Padova, 

18S5. 44 p. 8vo. 
Lyxn (W. T.). — Celestial motions; a handy book of astronomy. 3 ed. London, 1885. 

80 p. 16mo. 1.70 

VON Madler (J. H.). — Der Wunderbau des Weltalls oder populare Astronomie. 8. 

Aufl. Strassburg, 1885. Liefg. 5-12. 8vo. Jede Liefg, 1 

Mahler (E). — Astronomische Untersuchung iiber die in der Bibel erwahnte agyp- 

tische Finsterniss. Wien, 1885. 15 p. 8vo. 0.50 
Die centralen Sonnenfinsternisse des 20. Jahrhunderts. Wien, 1885. 40p. 

4to. 2 

Marie (M.). — Histoire des Sciences math^matiques et physiques. Tome vn: De 

Newton k Euler (Suite). Paris, 1885. 272 p. Roy. 8vo. 5.50 

Same. Tomes I ^ VI : De Thales h Euler. 35.50 

Maxwell. — The life of J. C. Maxwell, with selections from hie correspondence and 

occasional writings, by L. Camjjbell and W. Garnett. New edition, abridged and 

revised. Loudon, 1885. 8vo. (Portrait and illustr.) Cloth. 7.80 

Mayer (J.). — Sternkarte mit beweglichem Horizout. Apparat zum Studiura des Ge- 

stirnten Himmels mit zugehoriger Astrognosie oder Anlcitung zur Kenntniss der 

Gestirne. Schaffhausen, 1885. Fol. m. 3 Tfln. In Mappe. 4 

Melanges Math^matiques et Astronomiques tir^s du Bulletin de I'Acad^mie Im- 

p^riale des Sciences de St.-Pdtersbourg. Tome vi. Livr. 3. St.-P^tersbourg, 

1885. Roy. Svo. ^ 1 

Same. Tome vi. Livr. 1 et 2. 1884. ' 4 

Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences. Vol. n. Washington, 1884. 262 p. 

(with plates.) 4to. 
Cont. : Report of the eclipse expedition to Caroline Island. Langley, Experi- 
mental determination of wave-lengths in the invisible prismatic spectrum. 
Brewer, On the subsidence of particles in liquid. Bell, On the formation of 
a deaf variety of the human race. 
Merriman (M.). — Text-book of the method of least squares. London, 1885. 8vo. 

Cloth. 9 

Mitchell (O. M.). — The orbs of heaven ; or planetary and stellar worlds. New edit. 

London, 1885. 300 p. Svo. Cloth. 2,30 

Mittheilungen (Mathematische u. naturwissenschaftliche) aus den Sitzungsberich- 

ten der konigl. Preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Jahrgang 1885. 

Berlin. Svo. Tfln. 8 

MObius (A. F.). — Gesammelte Werke. Auf Veranlassung der kgl. Siichsischen Gesell- 

schaft dor Wissenschaften hersg. v. R. Baltzer, F. Klein u. W. Scheibner. (In 4 

Biinden.) Band i : Barycentrischer Calcul, hersg. v, R. Baltzer. Leipzig, 1885. 

Lex. 8, m. Bildniss (v. Mobius) u. 132 Holzschn. 16 

Band ii wird enthalten : Analytische Sphiirik u. sonstige geometrische Unter- 

suchungen. 
Band in n. iv: Untersuchungen auf d. Gebiete d, Statik u. d, himmlischen 
MAohamk. 



ASTRONOMY. 453 

Moscow Observatort. — Annalee de I'Observatoire de Moscou. Publidfs par Th. 
Bredichin. Vol. x, livraison 2. Moscou, 1884. 164 p., 7 pi. 4to. 8 

Cont. : Belopolsky, Observat. au Cercle nidiidien. Essai d'ime iI^teiiiuTiat. <lii 
rajou appar. du eoleil au moyen de la photoj^rapbie. Obwrvat. pbotohelio- 
grapb. en 1883. Jonkovsky, Sur la construct, dea courbes syndynain. et .syn- 
chron. Bredicbin, Les syndynames et les syucbrones de la (Jouiete Pons- 
Brooks. Avec note suppl^oi. Sur la queue du I. type de la ComMe de 1744. 
SocoloflF, Niiberungsformeln derTbeorie der Cooietenscbweife. Ceraski. Ueber 
die Berecbuung des Licbtverbaltnisses f. Sterne von auf einander folgenden 
Grossenklassen. 

La 1 s6rie des "Annalea" complete en 10 volumes. 120 

Munich Observatory. — Annalen derMiincbener Steinvrarte. Suppienieutband 10. 

Mlincben, 1885. 8vo. 3 

Cont. : Astronomiscb-geodiitische BestimniTiugen ausgefubrt an eiuigeu Haupt- 

punkten des bayeriscben Dreiecksnetzes u. bersg. v. J. v. Lauiont. 

Nachrichten (Astronomisebe) begriindet v. H. C. Scbumacber. Unter Mitwirknng 

der AstrouomiscbenGeeellscbaft bersg. V. A. Kriiger. Kiel, 1885. 4to. Band 112. 

(24 Nm.) 15 

Band 113. (24 No8.) 15 

Nasmyth (J.) and Carpenter (J.). — The moon; considered as a planet, a world, 

and a satellite. New York, Scribner & Welford, 188'.. Id-filB i>.,"J6 pi., illustr. 
8vo. 

National Academy of Sciences. — Memoirs of tbe National Academy of Sciences. 
Vol. II. 1883. Washington, 1884. 262 p., 7 pi. 4to. 
Cout. : Eeport of tbe eclipse exjiedition to Caroline Islands, May 1883. Lang- 
ley, Experimental determination of wave-lengtbs in the invisible prismatic 
spectrum. 

Nature. — A weekly illustrated journal of science. Year 1885. (52nrs. ) London, 
1885. 31-^640 p. 4to. 30 

Nature (La). — Eovue illustrde des Sciences et de leur Application aux Arts et k I'ln- 
dustrie. K^d. p. G. Tissandier. Ann6e 1885. (2 vols, en 52 nrs.) Paris, 1885: 
4to. 20 

Newcomb (S.). — Development of tbe perturbative function and its derivatives, in 
sines and cosines of multiples of tbe eccentric anomaly, and in powers of the 
eccentricities and inclinations. Astron. Papers Am. Ei>hem.,'A: 1-200 (vol. 3, part 
1, 1884^). 10 

Measures of tbe velocity of light made 1880-'82. Micbelson (A.), Supple- 
mentary measures of tbe velocities of white and colored light in aii', water, and 
carbon disulpbide. Astron. Papers Am. Ephem., 2 : 113-258 (vol. 2, parts 2 and 3, 
1885). ' 7.50 

On tbe motion of Ilyperion. A new case in celestial mechanics. Astron. Papers 

Am. Epliem.. 3: 347-371 (vol. 3, part 3, 1884). 

Catalogue of 1098 standard clock and zodiacal stars. Astron. Papers Avt. 

Ephem., 1 : 147-314 (vol. 1, part 4, 1884.) 15 

Tbe essentials of trigonometry, plane and spherical, with 3 and 4 idace loga- 



rithmic and trigonometric tables. New York, 1885. 12mo. Cloth. 6.30 

Observatory (The). — Monthly journal of practical astronomy. Yearl8H.5. (12 nrs.) 

Loudon, 1885. 9+444 p. 8vo. 14 

Oertel (K.). — Astronomisebe Bestimmung der Polhoben auf den Punkten Irscheu- 

berg, Hohensteig u. Kempenwand. MUncben, 1885. 4to. 2 

O'Gyalla Observatory. — Boobacbtungen angestellt am astropbysikaliscben Ob- 

servatoriuni in O'Gyalla. bersg. v, N. v. Konkoly. Band 8. Halle, 1885. 4to. 

5 ITolzscbn. n. 2 iithogr. Tfln. 10 

Oppbniteim (S.). — Ueber die Rotation und Pracessiou einea fliisaigen Spbaroids. 

Wien, 1885. 47 p. 8vo. 0.80 



154 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 
Balmbestimumna d.-s Kometeu VIII, 1881. Wieii. 1885. 8vo. 0.50 



■'in 

Oppkrt (.1.).- Die astrononiischeu Angaben der Assyiischen Keilinschriftcii. Wicii, 
188.^). 13 p. 8vo. 0.80 

VON Oppolzer (Th.). — TJeberdie Anflosunjf des Kepler'schen Problenis. Wieu, 1885. 
59 p. 4to. ■S.:H) 

Ut'lxr die Lange d«\s Sirinsjahres nnd der Sothisperiode. Wieii, 18t5. '2S 

p. &VO. 0..^() 

Pacific Science Monthly. Vol.i., No. 1. San Bnenaveutura (Cal.), 188.'>. 1-i p. 
rtvo. 

Paris Ousrrvatory. — Annales de I'Observatoire de Paris, iiubl. sous la direct, de 
Monchez. Ohservatious (1881). Paris, 1881. 8+758 p. Roy. Ito. :?:l.^>(l 

M(5iu(»ires. Tome IS. Paris, 1885. LUl p. Roy. 4to. 2'.) 

Pkters (C. F. W.) — Die gegenseitige Lage der Steruwarteu zn Altoua u. Kiel. Ber- 
lin, 18-'4. 4f(). 1..50 

Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science, cond. by R. Kane, W. Thomson, 
W.Francis. Year, 1885 (12 nrs.). London. Roy. 8vo. ■.V2 

I'liiLosoPHiCAL Society ot Washington. Bulletin, a'oI. viii. AVashiiiglon, 1885. 47+ 

(>S ]). fJVO. 

Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for 1884. Part ii. London, Ifc'Sr.. 
4(0, with 28 plates. 37.50 

Cont. : Heath, On the dynamics of a rigid body in elliptic space. Hartley, Re- 
searches on spectrnm photography. II. Poyntiug, On the transfer of energy 
in the electro-magnetic field. Hill, On the motion of fluid, part of which 
is moving rotatioually and part irrotationally. Rayleigh, On the electro- 
chemical equivalent of silver and on the absolute electro-motive force of Clark 
cells. Ramsay and Young, Influence of change of condition from the liquid 
to the solid state <m vapor pressure. Ferrier and Yeo, Record of experiments 
on the eifects of lesion of diti'erent regions of the cerebral hemispheres. 
Bower, On the comparat. morphology of the leaf in the vascular cryptogams 
and gymnosperms. Dixon, Condition of chemical change in gases. 

Pickering (E.G.). — Observations of variable stars in 1884. Proc. Am. Acad., 20: 
393-40O. (1885.) Svo. 

— Annals of the Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College. Vol. xiv. Cam- 
bridge, 1885. 512 p. Roy. 4to. 

Rejjort (40th annual) of the director of the Astronomical Observatory of Har- 

vard College. Cambridge, 1886. 13 p. 8vo. 

A photographic study of I he Nebula of Oriou. Proc. Am. Acad. , 20 : 407. ( 1885. ) 

Proctor (R. A.). — The univei-se of suns, and other science gleanings. New York, 

1885. 401 p. 12mo, Cloth. 11.20 

Lo Spettroscopio e le sue Applicazioni. 1. traduz. italianac. uoteed aggiunte 

diF. Porro. Milano, 1885. 5+178 i>. C. 71 incis. e carta (di spettri). 16mo. 1.50 

l^oisi>AM Observatory.— Publicationeu des Astrophysikalischeu Observatoriums zu 
Potsdam. Nr. 15 (Band iv, Stiick 2) : Mtteorologisclie Beobachtnngen in den 
Jahren 1881 bis 1883. Bearbeit. v. P. Kempf. Leipzig, 1S«5. 447 p. 4to. 7 

Publicationeu des Astrophysikalischeu Observatoriums zu Potsdam. Nr. 16 

(Band iv, Stiick 3) : Ueber den Einfluss der Temperatur auf die Brechung des 
Lichtes in einigeu Glassorten, im Kalkspath u. Bergkrystall. v. G. Mliller. Pots- 
dam, 1885. 65 p. 4to. 4 

. Same. Nr. 1-15, 1878-'85, m. 63 Tfln. ^ 84 

Quarterly Journal of pure and applied mathematics. Edited by N. M. Ferrers, 

A. Cayley, J.W. L. Glaisher, A. R. Forsyth. No. 80. (Vol. xx, pt. 1.) Loudon. 

188.5. P. 289-383. title p., index, 1 plate. 8vo. 5.20 

No. 81. (Vol.21, pt.i.) London, June, 1885. p. 1-96, with I i>latc. 5.20 

No.8.^ (Vol.21, pt. ii.) Cambridge, 1885. p. 97-192. 5.20 

RadclU'FI-: Ousi.iiVATORY, Oxford, results of astronomical and meteorological obser- 
vations iu the year 1881. Vol.39. Oxford, 18S4. Roy. Svo. 



ASTRONOMY 455 

ResnltH of astroiioinical aiKl mefeorolof^ical obsi-rviil ions in tlio vpiir 1882. 

Vol. 40. Oxford, 18d4. -^0+1,50+1 p. R<.y. >vo. 
Respighi (L.). — Catalogo dolle Declinazioiii medie pol I'-K), o di 1004 8tcll«",. Roma, 

1885. 4to. :i.80 

Sulle Osservazioni del Bordo e delle Protuberanzc Solari fattc :il 1\. O.ssciva- 

torio dpi Campidoglio. Nota viii. Roma, 18^ri. 14 p. 4tn. <i.80. 

Roberts (F.C.).— The figure of the earth. New York, 1885. iK^. p. 12mo. '2J^0 

Rogers (W. A.).— Catalogue of l,::il3 stars observed at the Aslioiioniical Ob.scrv.-itorv 

of Harvard College with the meridian circle 1870-79. Camluidge, Mass., 1884. 

7+9:i p. 4to. 
ROSCOE (H. E.). — Spectrum aualysis. 4th ed., revised and considerably enlarged by 

the author and A. Schuster. London, 1885. Roy. 8vo. Clot''. "21 

SCHELLEN (H.).— Spectrum analysis in its application to terrestrial substances, and 

the physical constitution of the heavenly bodies. Translated from t lie :{d enlarged 

and revised German edition by J. and C. Lassell. Edited with notes by W. de 

W. Abney. London, 1885. With 291 wood cuts and 14 plates (.'> colored). 8vo. 

Cloth. :W.50 

Science.— An illustrated journal, ijublished weekly. Cambridge, Mass. Year 1885 

("Vols. V. VI) in 52 nrs. 4to. Illustr. 2(i 

Searle (A. ). — The apparent position of the zodiacal light. Mem. Am. Acad., 19 : l:5.j- 

157 a885). 
Secchi (A.). — L'Unitidelle Forze Fisiche. Saggio di Filosofia Naturale. 4. ediz. (:i 

italiana), preceduta dalla biografia del A. Secchi, per F. Denza. 'i vol. Milauo, 

1885. 408+387 p. 16mo. 5..50 

11 Sole; esposizione delle principal! Scoperte moderne sopra la sua Struttura, 

la sua Influenza nell' Universe e le sue Relazioui cogli altri Corpi celesti. Fi- 
reuze, 1885. 8+439 p. Bvo. • 9 

Seeliger (H.). — Die Vertheilung der Sterne auf der nordlichen Halbkngel nach d. 

Bonner Durchmusterung. (Miiuchen), 1885. 29 p. 8vo. 1.20 

Servis (A.). — Untersucbungen Gber die Bahu und die Storuugeu der Himmelskorper 

mit Zugrundelegung des Weber'schen elektrodynaraischen Gesetzes. Halle, 1885. 

47 p. 4to. 2 

Sidereal Messenger (The).— Conducted by Vr. W. Payne. Vol. 4. Northtield, 

1885. ;i20p. 8vo. 
SiKius.— Zeitschrift fur populare Astronomic. Red. H.J.Klein. Bd. 18 (Nene Folge, 

Bd. 13). Jahrg. 1885. (12 Hefte.) Leipzig, 1885. 4+288 p. 8vo. 10 

SiTZUNGSBERiCHTE der kaiserl. Akademie der Wisenschaften. Mathematiseh-natnr- 

wissenschaftliche Classe. Band 90, Heft 3 u.4. Abtheilg. 2. Wien, 1885. p. 

387-779. 8vo. <5 

Abtheilg. 2: Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Mathematik. Pliysik. Clieinie, 
Mechanik, Meteorologie u. Astronomic. 

Mathematisch-naturwissenschaftliche Classe. Abtheilg. 2: Abhandlungen 

aus dem Gebiete der Mathematik, Physik, Chemie, Mechanik, Meteorologie 
u. Astronomic. Band 91, Jahrgang 1885. Heft i u. ii : Jauuar n. Februar. Wien, 
1885. P. 1-393. 8vo. 5..50 

SiTZUNGSBERiCHTE der mathematisch-physikalischen Classe d. k. bayr. Akademie 
der Wissenschaften zu Miinchen, 1884. Heft iv. Miinclicn, 1885. )). 1— (>, 521 — 
654, m. 3Tfln, 8vo. Jedes Heft. . 1.20 

Band 14, 1884, jetzt complet. 4.80 

Stern-Ephemeriden fiir das Jahr 1887. Heransg. v. d. Bcrl. Sternwartc. Berlin, 

1885. 8vo. <5 

Struve (O.). — Tabula} quantitatum Besselianarum pro annis 1885 ad 1889 conii)nta- 

tsB. Petropoli, 1885, 6vo. 1.20 

Thomson (W.). — Tafelu zur Erleichtornng der Anwendung der Sumner'schen Me- 

thode. Neu berechnet v. M. Bozek u. A. Portner v. lioilein. Tricst, 1885. fol. 2. 



t56 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Ttermajs (T. F.).— The moon's rotation examined by the Newtonian theory of grav- 
itation. Oxford, 1885. 32 p. 8vo. Cloth. 2.20 

Unification des Longitudes par I'adoption d'un M6ridien initial unique et introduc- 
tion d'une Heure universello. Extrait des Comptes rendus de la 7. Conference 
g<3n6rale de 1' Association G6od68ique intemationale, r6unie h Rome en Octobre 
18«3. Berlin, 1884. 4to. 3 

United States Naval Observatory. — Astronomical and meteorological observations 
made during the year 1881. Washington, 1885. 74 + 202 + 21 + 33 + 27 p. 4to. 

ViERTELJAHUSSCHRiFT der Astronomischcu GesoUschaft. Hersg. v. E. Schonfeld u. 
H. Seeliger. Jahrg. 19. Heft IV. Leipzig, 1884. p. 237-300, Titel u. Inhalts- 
verz. 8vo. 3 

Jahrg. 20. Heft 1 to 4. Leipzig, 1885. 4 -f- 342 p. 8vo. Jedes Iloft. 2 

ViERTEUAHRSScnRiFT der Natui-forschendon Gesellachaft in Ziirich. Redig. v. R. 

Wolf. Jahrgang 30. Zurich, 1885. 8vo. 3.60 

Cont. : Nr. 1 (p. 1-128) : Wolf, Astronom. Mittheilungen. Graberg, Ueber 

Masszeichen. Haller, Beitr. z. Kenntniss d. Schweizerischen Milbenfauua, &c, 

VOGEL (H. W.). — Die Photographie uach farbigen Gegenstiinden in den richtigen 
Tonverbiiltuissen. Berlin, 1885. 8 -|- 157 p. 1 Farbendruckbeilage, 2 danach 
gefertigteu Photographien u. 15 Holzst. 8vo. ' 4 

Washburn Observatory. — Publications of the Washburn Observatory of the Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin. (E.S.Holden, Director.) Vol. iii. Madison, 1885. 139 p. 
8vo. 

Webb (T.W.). — The sun ; a familiar description of his phenomena. London, 1885. 
Plates and 17 diagrams. 8vo. 1.20 

Weiss (E.). — EntwickelungenzumLagrange'schen Reversionstheorem u. Anwendung 
derselben auf die Lcisung der Kepler'schen Gleichung. Wien, 1*^85. 8vo. 0.60 

Eutwickelungen zum Lagrauge'schen Reversionstheorem u. Anwendung der- 
selben auf die Losuug der Keppler'schen Gleichung. Wien, 1885. 38 p. 4to. 2 

Williams (W.M.).— The fuel of the sun. London, 1885. 244 p. Bvo. cloth. 7.80 

Wochenschrift fur Astronomie, Meteorologie u. Geographie. Redig. v. H. J. Klein. 
Jahrg. 1885 (52 Nrn.). Halle, 1885. 8vo. 9 

Young (C. A.). — Theories regarding the sun's corona. JV. Am. Rev. (1885). 

Zeitschrift fiir Instrumentenkunde. Organ flir Mittheilungen aus dem gesammten 
Gebiete der wissenschaftlichen Technik. Red. v. G. Schwirkus. Zahlr. Origi- 
nalabbildgn. Jahrg. 5, 1885 (12 Hefte). Berlin, 1885. 4to. 18 

Zeitschrift fiir mathematischen und naturwissenschaftlichen Unterricht, hersg. v. 
J. C. V. Hoffmann. Jahrg. 16, 1885 (6 Ilefto). Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 12 

Zeitschrift fiir Mathematik und Physik, hersg. v. O. Schliimilch, E. Kahl u, M. 
Cantor. Jahrg. 30, 1885 (6 Hefte). Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 18 



NECROLOGY OF ASTRONOMERS : 1885. 

Baeyer {Gen. J. J.), President of the Central Bureau for European Triangulation 
and of the Royal Prussian Geodetic Institute ; b. November 5, 1794 ; d. September 
10, 1885. 

VON BoGUSLAWSKi (Gkorg) ; b. December 7, 1827 ; d. May 4, 1884. 

Clausen (Th.), Director emeritus of the Dorpat Observatory ; d. May 25, 1885. 

FoLAiN ( ), Assistant astronomer at the Paris Observatory ; b. 1828 ; d. at 

Paris, May 26, 1885. 

Hartnup (John), Superintendent of the Liverpool Observatory; b. January 7, 
1806; d. October 20, 1885. 

Hohwu (Andreas), Chronometer-maker, Amsterdam ; d. September 36, 1885, 
aet. 82. 

SiDEBOTHAM (JOSEPH) ; b. January 17, 1824 ; d. May 24, 1885. 

Webb {Rev. Thomas Willlam); b. December 14, 1807; d. May 19, 1885. 

Wray (William), Optician ; b. December 6, 1829, d. , 1885. 



LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 



By George H. Bokiimeu. 



I. A]MERICA>f OBSERVATORIES. 

Akron, Ohio. 

Bucbtel College Observatory. 
Albany, Neiv York. 

Dudley Observatory. 
Alfred Centre, Neic Yorlc. 

Observatory of Alfred University. 
Allegheny City, Pennsylvania. 

Allegheny Observatory. 
Amherst, Massaclmsetts. 

The Lawrence Observatory of Amherst College. 
Annapolis, Maryland. 

United States Naval Acadeniy Observatory. 
Ann Arbor, Michigan. 

Detroit Observatory. 
Baltimore (near), Maryland. 

Denmore Observatory. 
Barnesville, Ohio. 

Olney Observatory. 
Battle Creek, Michigan. 

High School Observatory. 
Beloit, Wisconsin. 

Smith Observatory of Beloit College. 
Brooklyn, New Yorlc. 

Private Observatory of Mr. AV. T. Gregg. 

Private Observatory of Mr. James W. Ward. 
Buffalo, Neio York. 

Private Observatory of Mr. nenry Mills, 
Cambridge. Massachusetts. 

Private Observatory or Mr. E. L. Trouvelot. 

The Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College. 
Cambridgeport, Massachusetts. 

Private Observatory of Mr. E. F. Sawyer. 
Chicago, Illinois. 

Dearborn Observatory. 



457 



458 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Oiiicinnati Observatory (at Mouut Jiookout). 
Clinton, JS'eic Yorl: 

Litclifield Observjitory of Hamilton College. 
C;oLUMBiA, MiHSouri. 

Tbe L:nvs Observatory, Uiiiversity of the State of Missouri. 
COLUMBITS, Ohio. 

Privjite Observatory of K. W. McFarlaue. 
Ckete, Xehrasl-a. 

Boswell Observatory of Doane College. 
DUBUnUE, Jowa. 

J3iibuqiie Observatory. 
Eastok, Fennst/lvania. 

La Fayette College Observatory. 
I^jLTZABETII, New Jersey. 

Observatory of Mr. Charles W. Plyer. 
T)VK West, South Carolina. 

Astronomical Observatory of Erskine College. 
FoRDHAM, Neil- YorJc. 

Private Observatory of Mr. Meiklebam (removed to Riverdale, 
Neic Yorh). 
Fort Doboe, Iowa. 

Private Observatory of Mr. F. Hess. 
Georgetown, District of Columhia. 

Observatory of Georgetown College. 
CrLASOOAV, MisKouri. 

^lorrison Observatory. 
Greencastle, Indiana. 

McKiin Observatory. 
Hanovku, Neiv Hampshire. 

Shiittuck Observatory. 
Hastings, New Yorl. 

Private Observatory of Mr. Henry Draper. 
Haverford Colleoe, Pennsylvania. 

Haverford College Observatory. 
Hudson, Ohio. 

Hudson Observatory. 
Iowa City, loim. 

Private Observatory of Mr. C. W. Irish. 
Lansino, Michigan. 

State Agricultural College Observatory. 
LiNWOOD, Ohio. 

Private Observatory of R. H. McClure. 
Lawrence, Kansas. 

Observatory of the Kansas State University. 



LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OHSERVATORIES. 159 

Madison, W^rowsw. 

The Washburn ObseivHtory. 
Mount Hamilton, California. 

Lick Observatory (Lick AstronoTiiical Department of the Univer- 
sity of California). 
Mount Lookout, Ohio. 

Cincinnati Observatory. 
MiDDLETOWN, Connecticut. 

Observatory of Wesleyan College. 
Nashville, Tennessee. 

Private Observatory of Mr. E. E. Barnard. 
jSTbw Brunswick, Neiv Jersey. 

Observatory of Rutgers College. 
New Haven, Connecticut. 

Winchester Observatory of Yale College. 
New Orleans, Louisiana. 

Observatory. 
New Windsor, Illinois. 

Private Observatory of Mr, Edgar L. Larkin. 
Newington, Connecticut. 

Private Observatory of Mr. D. W. Edgecornb. 
New York, New York. 

Columbia College Observatory. 

Private Observatory of Mr. L. M. Rutherfnrd. 
Northfield, Minnesota. 

Carleton College Astronomical Observatory. 
Omaha, NthrasM. 

Creighton College Observatory. 
Oxford, Mississippi. 

Obser\atory of the University of Mississippi. 
Phelps, Neiv York. 

Red House <^)l)servatory. 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

Central High -School Observatory. 
Poughkeepsie, Neil' York. 

Vassar College Observatory. 
Princeton, New Jersey. 

Halstead Observatory. 

Observatory of tlie John C. Green School of Science. 
l*ROViDENCE, Rhode I.'sland. 

Seagrave Observatory. 
RiVERDALE, Neic York. 

Private Observatory of Mr. William Meiklehaui. 
Rochester, New York. 

Warner Observatory. 



460 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Saint Louis, Missouri. 

Observatory of Washington University. 
San Jose, California. (See Mount Hamilton.) 
South Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. 

Sayie Observatory of Lehigh University. 
South Hadley, Massachusetts. 

Observatory of Mount Holyoke Seminary. 
Spiceland, Indiana. 

Private Observatory of Mr. Williaui Dawson. 
Tarrytown, New Yorlc. 

Private Observatory of Mr. Clinrles Rockwell. 
Troy, New York. 

Williams Proutlfit 'bservatory. 
University of Virginia Posx-office, Virginia. 

Leander McCormick Observatory. 
Vevay, Indiana. 

Private Observatory of Mr. Charles G. Boeruer. 
Washington, District of Columbia. 

United States Naval Observatory. 
West Point, New York. 

West Point Observatory. 
Willets Point, Neic Yorl: 

Field Observatory, Engineer School of Application. 
Williamstown, Massachusetts. 

Williamstown Observatory. 
Ypsilanti, Michigan. 

State Normal School Observatory. 

II.— foreign observatories. 

Aberdeen, Scotland. (See Dun Echt.) 
Adelaide, South Australia. 

Observatory Branch of Post and Telegraph Department. 
Algiers, Algeria. 

Observatoire National. 
Alton A, Prussia. 

Sternwarte (transferred to Kiel, Prussia). 
Antwerp, Belgium. 

Observatoire. 
Armagh, Ireland. 

Observatory. 
Ashurst, England. 

Observatory. 
Athens, Greece. 

Observatoire. 
Bamberg, Bavaria. 

Sternwarte. 






LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 4(51 

Basel, JSwitzerland. 

Physikalisches Iiistitut "BeruoQllianum." 
Basses Pyren/^es, France. 

M. d'Abbadie's Observatoire. 
Bedford, England. 

Observatory. 
Benares, India. 

Observatory. 
Bergen, Norway. 

Naval Observatory. 
Berlin, Prussia. 

Konigliche Universitats Steruwarte. 
Bern, ISicitzerland. 

Stern warte. 
Bilk, Prussia. (See Diisseldorf.) 

TelluriscLes Observatorium. 
Birr Castle, Ireland. 

Parsonstown Observatory. 
BlenheijVIS Park (Oxford OouHty). England. 

Observatory. 
Bogota, United States of ColarMa. 

Observatorio Astronomico NaciouaL 

Observatoire Flamiuarioii. 
Bologna, Italy. 

Osservatorio Astronomico. 
Bombay, India. 

Government Observatory at Colaba. 
Bonn, Prussia. 

Universitats Stern warte. 
BooTHKAiMP (near Kiel), Priissia. 

Sternwarte des Herrn Kammerlierr von Biilow. 
Bordeaux, France. 

Observatoire. 
Bremen, Germany. 

Observatorium der Navigations Schnle. 

Sternwarte des Herrn Olbers. 
Breslau, Prussia. 

KoniglicLe Universitats Sternwarte. 
Brussels, Belgium. 

Observatoire Royal. 
Brest, France. 

Observatoire. 
Budapest, Hungary. 

Polytechnikum. 

K. Ung. Central Anstalt fttr Meteorologie nnd P^rdinrtgnefismns. 



4G2 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

BuKAREST, Boumania. 

Uuiversitats Sternwarte. 
Bushy Heath, England. 

Observatory. 
Cadiz, 82)ain. (See San Fernando.) 
Cairo, Egypt. 

Observatoire Kli^divial. 
Cambridge, England. 

Cambridge Observatory. 
Cape Town, Africa. 

Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. 
Catania, Italy. 

Observatory on Mount Etna. 
Carlsburg, Hungary. 

Sternwarte. 
C!hapultepbc, Mexico. (See Tacubaya.) 
{.'HRISTIANIA, Norway. 

Uuiversitats Sternwarte. 
Churts, England. 

Private Observatory. (Ceased to exist.) 
CoiMBRA, Portugal. 

Observatorio Maguetico-Meteorologico da Uiiivejsid;tde de Coiiu- 
bra. 
CoLLOONEY, Ireland. (See Markree.) 
Cologne, Prussia. (See Kolu.) 
Colombo (Ceylon), Asia. 

Private Observatory of Mr. Oreeii. 
Constantinople, Turkey. 

Observatoire (ordered to be erecte<l, by tli<' Siiltan). 
Copenhagen, Denmark. 

Universitets Astronomiske Obscrvatoriuin. 
Cordoba, Argentine Republic. 

Observatorio iSTacional Argeutiuo. 
Cork, Ireland. 

Observatory of Queen's College. 
(JRAGOW, Austria. (See Krakau, Austria) 

Cronstadt, Russia. (See Kronsbt;id, Kussia.) 
Ckowborough, England. 

Pri\ate Observatory of Mr. Charles Leesou Piiucc, 
Czernowitz, Austria. 

Pbysikaliscbes Institut der K. K. Franz Joseplis irni\ersitai. 
Danzig, Prussia. 

(^bservatorium der Naturforschenden Gesellsfliait. 
Dkrpt (Dorpat), Russia. 

hnperatorskaia Astronomicheskaia Obsei \at()ri;i. 



LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSKRN ATOIUES. 4G3 

Dresden, Saxony. 

Kouigliches Matbematisch Phvsikalisches lustitut. 

Steriiwarte ties Hcrrn K. von Enj;elhaidt. 

Steruwarte des Herrii Dr. Uujj'o Gueiicke. 
Drontheim, Norway. 

Observatorium. 
JJUBLIN, Ireland. 

Dmisiuk Observatory. 
Dun Echt (Abenieen), Scotland. 

Dun Echt Ob.^ervatory. 
Durham, England. 

University Observatory. 
DussioLDORF, Pniftsia. 

Sternwarte (formerly at Bilk, near Diisseldorf). 
Edinburgh, Scotland. 

Royal Observatory. 

Ben Keirs Observatory. 
Erlau, Hungary. 

Steruwarte. 
Elsfleth, Germany. 

Observatorium der Navigations Schule. 
Ekatherinebourg, Russia. 

Magnetnaia e Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria. 
Florence, Italy. 

Real O.^^servatorio Astronomico di Firenze ;»<1 Arcetri. 

Osservatorio del R. Museo. 

Osservatorio Meteorologieo del K. Museo. 

Osservatorio di San Giovannino (Ximeniano). 
Frankfort, a. M., Prussia. 

Sternwarte des Herrn Dr. Epstein. 
FuNCHAL, Madeira. 

Observatory. 
(tALATZ, Roumania. 

Private Sternwarte. 
Gi'NEVA, Switzerland. 

Observatoire de Geneve. 
Genoa, Italy. 

Osservatorio della R. Universita. 
Georgetovtn, British Guiana. 

Observatory. 
Glasgow, Scotland. 

Observatory. 
(iOHLis (near Leipzig), Saxony. 

Sternwarte des Herrn August Auerbach. 
GoTHA, Germany. 

Sternwarte. 



464 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 

GoTTiNGEN, Prussia. 

Konigliclie Stern warte. 
Graz, Austria. 

Physikalisches lustitut der k. k. Oail Franzens Universitat. 

Universitiits Sternwarte. 
Greenwich, England. 

Royal Observatory. 
Habana, Cuba. 

Observatorio del E. CoUegio de Belen. 
Halifax, England. 

Bermerside Observatory, Skircoat. 
Hamburg, Germany. 

I^forddeutsche Seewarte. 

Sternwarte. 
Helsingfors, Finland. 

Astronomiske Observatoriet. 
Her:6ny, Hungary. 

Observatorium. 
Hong Kong, China. 

Observatory. 
Innsbruck, Austria. 

Physikalisches Institut der k. k. Leopold Franzens Universitat. 
Ipswich, England. 

Orwell Park Observatory. 
Jena, Germany. 

Sternwarte. 
BlALOCSA, Hungary. 

Sternwarte. 
Karlsruhe, Baden. 

Grossherzogliche Sternwarte. 
Kasan, Eussia. 

Observatoria. 
Kensington, England. 

Observatory. 
Kew, England. 

Observatory. 
Kharkoff, Russia. 

Observatoria. 
Kiel, Prussia. 

Koniglicbe Sternwarte. 
KiEFP, Russia. 

Observatoria. 
Kilmarnock, Scotland. 

Observatory. 
Klatjsenburg, Hungary. 

Sternwarte. 



LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 465 

K.JOBENHAVN, Demuarl: (See CopenbageD, Denmark.) 
KoLN. Prussia. 

Sternwarte. 
KoNiGSBERG, Prussia. 

Universitats-Sternwarte. 
Krakau, Austria. 

K. k. IlDiveisitats Sternwarte. 
K^REMSMtiNSTER, Austria. 

Sternwarte der Benediktiuer Abtei. 
KRO*^^^STADT, Russia. 

Moiskaia Astnnioniischeskaia Ob.servatoria. 

Oompassnaia Observatoria. 
Leiden. (See Leyden.) 
Le [pz icr , i:^axony. 

Universitats- Sternwarte. 

Sternwarte des Herrn Dr. Kudolf Engelmann. 
Lemberg, Austria. 

Sternwarte der Techniscben Hochschule. 
Leyden, Holland. 

Eijks-Observatorinm. 
Leyton, Ungland. 

Barclay Observatory (private). 
Liege, Belgium. 

National Observatory. (?) , 

Lisbon, Portugal. 

Eeal Observatorio Astronomico de Lisboa (Tapada da Ajuda). 

Observatorio da Marinlia. 

Observatorio Astronomico na Escola Polytechnica. 
Liverpool, England. 

Observatory, Birkenhead. 
London, England. 

Tnlse Hill Observatory. 
Louvain, Belgium. 

Observatoire de M. le Docteur Terby. 
LuBECK, Germany. 

Sternwarte. 
LucKNOW, India. 

'Jbservatory, 
Lund, Stveden. 

Lund Observatoriet. 
Ly'ON, France. 

Observatoire Astronomique et M^t^orologique. 
Madras, India. 

Madras Observatory. 
Madrid, Spain. 

Observjitorio de Madrid. 
H. Mis. I;1 :',(i 



466 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Manila, Philippine Islands. 

Observatorio del Ateneo Muuicii)ar. 
Mannheim, Baden. 

Grossherzogliche Steruwaite (trausferivd to Kailsrulie). 
Maeburg, Germany. 

Steruwarte. 
Markree, Ireland. 

Markree Observatory. 
Marseille, France. 

Observatoire. 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 

Melbourne Observatory. 
Meudon, France. 

Observatoire d'Astroiioiuie Physique. 
IMexico, Mexico. 

Observatorio. 
j\liT>AN, Italy. 

Ei. Osservatorio Astrouoiuico di Brera. 
MoDENA, Italy. 

Osservatorio. 
MoNCALiERi, Italy. 

Osservatorio del K. Collegio Carlo Alberto. 
Montreal, Canada. 

McGill J-)ollege Observatory. 
Montsouris (Paris), France. 

Observatoire de Montsouris. 
Mos(^ow, Russia. 

Observatoria. 
MuNCHEN (Muuich), Bavaria. 

Konigliohe Steruwarte, Bogenhausen, 
Munster, Prussia. 

Steruwarte. 
Naples (Napoli), Italy. 

R. Osservatorio, Capo di Monte. 
Na TAL, 8. Africa. 

jSTatal Observatory. 
Xe uchatel, Switzerland. 

Observatoire Cautonale. 
XiOE, France. 

Observatoire. 
NicoLAEF, Russia. 

Nicolaevskaia Observatoria. 
Nottingham, England. 

Private Observatory of Mr. Thomas W. Bush. 
Odessa, Russia. 

Steruwarte. 



LIST OF ASTEOAOMICAL OBISEKV ATOKIES. 407 

Ofen, Hungary. (See Budapest, Hunfjary.) 
O'Gyalla, Hungary. 

Astro-Physikalisches Observatorium. 
Olmutz, Austria. 

Sternwarte (discontinued). 
Oxford, England. 

Radcliffe Observatory. 

Savilian Observatory. 
Padova (Padua), Italy. 

Osservatorio Astronomico dell' Universita. 
I'ALERMO, Italy. 

R. Osservatorio. 
Pakamatta, New South Wales^ Amtralia. 

Observatory (transferred to Sydney, New South Walen). 
Paris, France. 

Observatoire National. 
Parma, Italy. 

R. Osservatorio Astronomico. 
Paesonstown, Ireland. (See Birr Castle, Ireland.) 
Pekin, China. 

Observatory of the Imperial Russian Embassy. 
Pisa, Italy. 

Osservatorio. 
Plonsk, Russia. 

Observatory of Dr. Jederzejewitz. 
PoLA, Austria. 

Nautiscbes Observatorium. 
Port Louis, Mauritius. 

Royal Alfred Observatory. 
Portsmouth, England. 

Observatory. 
Po I SDAM, Prussia. 

Astro-Pbysikalisches Observatorium. 
Prag (Prague), Austria. 

K. k. Universitats Sternwarte. 
PuEKovo, Russia. 

Nicolaevskaia Glavnaia Observatoria. 
PUY-LE D6me, France. 

Observatoire. 
Quebec, Canada. 

Observatory. 
Quito, Ecuador. 

Obscrvatorio del Colegio Nacional. 
Richmond (Surrey), England. 

|\(Mv 01)servatory of the Royal Society. , 



4G8 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Eio DE Janeiro, Brazil. 

Imperial Nautical Observatory. 
EoME, Italy. 

Osservatorio Astrouomico del Oollegio Komano. 

Osservatorio Capitoliuo. 
KuCtBY, England. 

Temple Observatory. 
KtiNGSDORF (Dear Bonn), Prussia. 

Stern warte. 
Saint Croix, Antilles. 

Observatoire. 
St. John's, Nezv Brimswick. 

Observatory. 
Saigon, French Cochin- ChitM.. 

Observatoire. 
San Fernando, Spain. 

Institnto y Observatorio de Marina de San Fernando. 
Santiago, Chile. 

Observatorio Nacioual. 
SCHWERIN, Mecllenbnrg. 

Geodetisches Observatorium. 
Senftenberg, Boliemia. 

Sternwarte des Baron Perish (ceased to exist). 
Slough, England. ^ 

Observatory. 
South Kilworth, England. 

Observatory..^ 
Speyer, Bavaria. 

Sternvrarte des Koui.^lichen Lyceums (ceased to exist). 
St. Helena, St. Helena. 

Observatory. 
St. Petersburg, Russia. 

Observatoria Akademii Nauk. 

Zentralnaia Fisitcbeskaia Observatoria. 
Starfield, England. 

Observatory. 
Stockholm, Sweden. 

Observatorium. 
Stonyhurst College (near Whalley), England. 

Stouyburst College Observatory. 
Strassburg, Germany. 

Sternwarte. 
Sydney, New South Wales, A ustraUa. 

Government Observatory. 
Taottbaya, Mexico. 

Observatorio Astronomico Nacioual Mexicano. 



LIST OF ASTRONOMICAl. OBSERVATORIES. 4CA> 

Tathkent, Russia. 

7 • 

Observatoire Astroiioinique et Physique de Tachkent. 
TiFLis, Russia. 

Observatoria. 
ToKio, Japan. 

Observatory of the Daigaku. 
Torino (Turiu), Italy. 

Eegio Osservatorio dell' University. 
Toulon, France. 

Observatoire do la Marine. 
Toulouse, France. 

Observatoire de Toulouse. 
Trevandeum, India. 

His Highness the Maha Rajah's Observatory. 
Trieste, Austria. 

Astronomisches und Meteorologisches Ob^ervatorium der k. k. 
^autischeu und Haudels Akademie. • 

TuNBRiDOE Wells, England. (See (Jrowborough, England.) 
Twickenham, England. 

Observatory of Mr. Hind. 
U PS ALA, Siveden. 

Universitets Observatoriet. 
Utrecht, Holland. 

Observatorium. 
Valencia, Ireland. 

Observ^atory of the London Meteorologieal Office. 
Vakshava (Warsaw), Russia. 

Astrouomicheskaia Observatoria. 
Venice, Italy. 

Observatory of the jSTaval Institute. 
Verona, Italy. 

Osservatorio. 
Vienna, Austria. (See Wien, Austria.) 
Vilna, Russia. 

Astrouomicheskaia Observatoria, 
Viviers, France. 

Observatoire. 
Warsaw, Russia. (See Varshava, Russia.) 
Wellington, JSfeic Zealand. 

Government Observatory. 
Whalley, England. (See Stonyhurst College, England.) 
Wien, Austria. 

K. K. Uuiversitats Sternwarte in Wiihriiig. 

Sternwarte der Technischen Hochschule. 

Sternwarte des Herrn Prof. T)r. Th. von Opi)olzer. 

Observatorium, Hohe Warte. 



470 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1886. 

WtTvLIAMSTown, Victoria. 

Obscivatoiy (tvnasreircd to Melbourne). 
W iLHET.iMSiiAV EN, Prussia. 

Kaisi-rliche ]\iariiie Sternwarte. 
.Windsor, New South Wales. 

Obscrvtitory of Mr. John Tebbut. 
ZiKAWEi, China. 

Observatory. 
ZiiRiCH, /Switzerland. 

Sternwarte des SchweizerischenPolytecUnikums. 



1 



VULCANOLOGY AND SKISMOLOGY, 



By C. G. RocKWOOD, Jr., 

'Professor of Mathematics in the College of Neic Jersey, Princeton, X. J. 



In cousequeuce of the early publication of this isuiumaiy it has been 
impossible to make it as full as the author had inteuded, especially with 
respect to foreign publications. In its preparation the following have 
been carefully examined, viz: Science, vols, v, Vi; Nature, vols, xxxi, 
xxxii ; American Journal of Science, (III,) vols, xxix, xxx ; CompU-s 
RenduH, vols, o, ci ; La Nature, 13th year, vols, i, ii: L'Astronomie, 4th 
year; Neu Jahrbuch fur Mlneralcgie, etc., 1885; Transactions Scisiiio- 
loffical Society of Japan, vol. Tin ; Proceedings American Associatitm 
for Advancement of Science^ vol. xxxiii. In respect to these the bibli- 
ography may be regarded as comj)lete, and all important articles are 
noticed in the summary. Other periodicals and books have been con- 
sulted as opportunity offered, but without a full t-xaminatiou. The 
bibliography attached to the present summary also contains some titles 
which properly should have been included in that of last year, but which 
had not then come to the author's notice ; and in like manner omissions 
in the present list will be supplied, so far as possible, in a future issue. 

The subject-matter will be arranged under the following heads : 

Vulcnnology. 

Volcanic phenomena of 1885. 
Volcanic phenomena of previous years. 
Causes of volcanic action. 

Seismology. 

Earthquakes of 1885. 

Earthquake lists of 1884. 

Earthquake catalogues of previous years. 

Study of earthquakes. 

Seismometry. 
Instruments and their records. 



472 SCIENTIFIC liECORI) FOR 1885. 

VULCANOLOGY. 

The volcanic activity during 1885 continued to be of a very moderate 
character, as had been the case in 1884, and again the East Indies ap- 
pears to have been the scene of its most violent development. 

In April, 1885, the state of Krakatoa caused some anxiety, as subter- 
ranean sounds were heard in the neighborhood day after day, but no 
outbreak occurred, (^atwre, xxxii : 161.) 

On April 17 and 18 a violent eruption of Smeru, the largest and most 
active volcano in Java, occurred, by which the side of the mountain for 
one third of the way down was described as burst open and emitting 
lava and mud. {J^ature, XXKII : 101.) , 

Several other Javanese volcanoes also manifested signs of activity, 
which was again further reported as recurring in June and July, es- 
pecially by another eruption of Smeru on July 8 and 9. Accounts of 
these eruptions are meager and vague, but they apparently involved 
the destruction of many coffee plantations, and some loss of lite. {N'a- 
ture, XXXII : 401; La Nature, ii: 102.) 

On May 2, 1885, lava began to flow from a rent in the side of the cone 
of eruption of Vesuvius, and continued for some days. According to 
Joliustoii Lavis, who visited the spot, this outburst of lava did not in- 
dicate any great increase of volcanic activity, but was sim])ly the break- 
ing through the cone of a dike which had been in process of slow forma- 
tion during several years, being thus a repetition of what ha])pened in 
December, 1881. {Nature, xxxii: 55, 108.) The lava came near the 
station of the mountain railway, but did not damage the road, although 
its use was interrupted for a time. {La Nature, i: 398.) 

On the morning of July 23, 1885, an eruption of Cotopaxi occurred, 
with considerable emission of lava, which caused some damage and loss 
of life, but it is not yet known how great. {Nature^ xxxii : 375, 428.) 

Grewingk, the volcano at Bogosloff Island, was seen by Lieutenant 
Stoney's exploring party in the summer of 1885. It was emitting less 
smoke than in the previous year, but no other important change was 
noticed. {Science, vi : 279.) 

Advices from Alaska in the summer also rejiort the volcano of Cher- 
nabura, or St. Augustin, in Cook's Inlet, as still pouring out smoke 
and steam from innumerable fissures. {Science^ vi: 95.) 

The New Zealand Herald, of Il^ovember 3, 1885, contained an account 
of a new volcano which has appeared in the Pacific Ocean. It burst 
forth on October 12 or 13, 1885, about fourteen or fifteen miles north- 
northwest of the island of Honga Tonga in the Friendly Group. It was 
visited on October 14 by a party from Tonga, and was found to have 
formed an island two or three miles long and some sixty feet high. As 
it was in continuous eruption, of course a close examination was im- 
possible. The position of this new volcano is in latitude 20'^ 21' south, 
longitude 175c> -J,6' west. {Science, vii: 09.) 



VULCANOLOGX AND SEISMOLOGY. 47o 

The first i»art of Verbeek's Report on the Krakatoa eruption, issiK'd 
by the Dutch East Indian Government (Batavia, 1884), dealt witii the 
prior liistory of the island and the-eveuts of the catastrophe it.^elC, leaving 
to the second part the scientific results of the inv'estigation. The edi- 
tor examined 1,300 reports of eye-witnesses, and has endeavored from 
them to construct a chronological statement of the events preceding and 
accompanying the eruption. {Nature^ xxxi: 279.) The second part 
has now been comj^leted, and has fully realized the expectations raise<l 
by the publication of the first part. It contains twenty-five colored draw- 
ings and forty-three maps, and reflects the greatest credit not only on the 
author, bijt on the Dutch Indian Government which sent him to study 
the causes and efi'ects of this catastrophe, and which so efficiently aided 
him in the work. A few of his conclusions may be mentioned here. 
Krakatoa lies at the intersection of three fissures in the earth's crust, 
and the earthquake of September 1, 1880, which damaged the light-house 
on Java's First Point, probably affected the Sunda fissure and facilitated 
the entrance of greater quantities of water to the volcanic furnace be- 
neath. Here may be found the remote cause of the outburst of 1883. 
The geology of Krakatoa is presented by two mai)s and four sections 
showing different stages of its development, the formation of the peak 
Kakata by a lateral eruption, the addition of the two parasitic cones of 
Danau and Perbvewatan, and finally their destruction by the explosion 
of 1883, The first three stages antedate any authentic records. In the 
last stage Perbvewatan became a«tive in May, 1883, Danan joined it in 
June, and in August both these with half of liakata were destroyed and 
are now covered by the sea. Portions of the j)umice from the eruption 
were carried westward to the coast of Africa. Another portion, after 
floating for months in the straits, was, in 1884, driven eastward, and in 
1885 was encountered in the Pacific Ocean near the Caroline Islands. 
{Mature, xxxi: 288.) The author expected that this might reacli the 
west coast of America early in 1886. The distance to which the ex})lo- 
sions were heard is illustrated by a map, and the curious fact that certain 
detonations were heard at distant places and not noticed at nearer ones 
is attributed to the presence of a dense ash cloud surrounding the peak 
and checking the transmission of sound through the lower atmosphere. 
About seventy pages are devoted to a discussion of the atmospheric wave 
which made the circuit of the globe. With the aid of accurate barograms 
from Sydney, N. S. W., and from Batavia he was able to calculate the 
hour of the greatest explosion and origin of the wave as 10 hours 2 min- 
utes a. m., Krakatoa time. Forty places are named where the passage 
of the air-wave was recorded by barometers. Treating of changes in 
the sea bottom, he says the northern part of Krakatoa is now cov^ered 
by the sea to a dei)th of 200 to 300 meters, and within the ring of islands 
which are fragments of the old crater-ring an area of 41 square kilom- 
eters has subsided. Outside these islands also the sea is deei)er than 
formerly over an area of 34 square kilometers, so thai in all there has 



474 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOE 1885. 

been a subsidence of about 75 square kilometers. There lias beeu no 
elevation of the sea bottom other than that caused by the fallen mate- 
rials ejected from the volcano. After a discussion of the great sea- 
waves which caused so much devastation, and the greatest of which 
started at 10 hours 2 minutes a. m., the time of the greatest explosion, 
a chapter is devoted to other volcanic phenomena taking place during 
the Krakatoa eruption, within or beyond the Indian Archipelago, even 
to the antipodes, especially other volcanoes in Sumatra and Java and 
earthquakes in Australia. In conclusion the author maintains the doc- 
trine that part of our globe is still in a molten state, and disi^utes the 
theory tliat the heat of the volcano is entirely due to chemical action. 
{Nature, xxxii : 601.) A review of Verbeek's work by E. Metzger, is 
published in Petermann's Mittheilungen, 188G, Hft. i. 

In a series of articles in La Nature M. Breon gives a very interesting 
account of the visit made by M. Corthals and himself to the Strait of 
Sunda and Krakatoa in May, 1884, being sent out by the French min- 
ister of public instruction. The apparent division of the small island 
Dwars-inden-Weg into four fragments was found to consist simply in 
the denudation of the low parts of the island of their verdure by 
the great sea- wave, while the higher portions escaped. At the head of 
Lampong Bay they found Telok Betong entirely destroyed, and the 
place where it stood now occupied by a marsh. Passing up the course 
of the small river which empties into this bay, they found the steamer 
Barrow stranded across the stream, and surrounded by a luxuriant 
growth of tropical vegetation. The island of Sebesie was covered with 
ashes to a depth of ten meters, and every one of its 2,000 inhabitants 
perished. In one place the visitors came upon the remains of a village 
where were found the skeletons of fifty victims of the catastrophe. The 
ephemeral islands of Steers and Calmeyer had already disappeared be- 
neath the waves,- having endured less than a year. Coming to Kra- 
katoa its condition is described. The frequent fall of stones down its 
sides, simulating renewed volcanic activity, was attributed to the in- 
fluence of solar heat causing unequal expansion. The phenomenon 
was at its maximum when the mountain was exposed to the direct rays 
of the sun, and almost ceased during the night. They landed upon 
Krakatoa, and also upon Verlaten and Lang islands, and although nine 
mouths had elapsed, the recent deposits still exhibited an elevated 
temperature in places. The account of their visit closes with a resume 
of the geological characteristics of Krakatoa. It is illustrated by a 
number of views reproduced from photographs. A condensed account 
of the above is reproduced in Science (VI: 291). 

Professor Fore! admits as not impossible that the Krakatoa explosion 
was the origin of certain subterranean noises heard on August 28, 1883, 
at the island of Caiman Brae, in the Lesser Antilles, situated near the 
antipodes of Krakatoa. Observers compared the noise to that of a dis- 
tant cannonade. It agreed tolerably well in time with the Krakatoa 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 475 

explosion, aud there was no other volcanic eruption to which it could 
be attributed, its connection with the known eruptions of Oraetepec or 
of Cotopaxi or with some otherwise unnoticed submarine eruption being 
considered and rejected. {Nature, xxxi: 483; La Nature, i: 3G2.) 

Mr. Henry Cecil suggests that if the synchronism of these noises at 
Caiman Brae and KJrakatoa is admitted it does not follow that the noise 
was propagated from Krakatoa through the globe. Both may have 
originated from a disturbance taking place deep within the earth. 
{Nature XXXI : 506.) Similar subterranean detonations were reported 
as heard on August 27 and 28 in San Domingo, in San Salvador, and at 
Antioqnia, in Colombia. {Gompt. Rend., C: 1314, 1315.) 

Br. Fr. Schneider, of Soerabaya, has discussed {Jahrb. K. K. Geol. 
Reichsanst. Wien, 1885) the volcanic condition of the Sunda Islands and 
the Moluccas, and thinks that the importance of the Krakatoa eruption 
has been greatly overestimated. Whether in the extent of its earth- 
quake circle, the amount of ashes thrown out, or the distance to which 
the ashes were thrown, it has been much surpassed by other volcanoes 
of Java, notably by the eruption of Temboro in 1815. After discussing 
the probable mode of formation of Java by the junction of three islands 
once separate, he describes in some detail the position and relations of 
the principal Javan volcanoes, especially in relation to the earthquakes 
recorded in their several districts. 

Prof. J. Kiessling, of Hamburg, and F. A. Forel have both published 
valuable papers on the reddish corona about the sun. Both writers 
conclude that there is no question of the connection of the ring with the 
famous sunset glows and of the origin of both of these phenomena in 
the dust cloud thrown out from Krakatoa. {Science, vi: 159.) 

J. Denza and also A. Boil.'ot, commenting before the Paris Academy on 
the reappearance of the sunglows in the summer of 1885, think they are 
not due to Krakatoa dust but to vapor of water. {Gompt. Rend., ci: 
1032.) 

In Nature there is figured and described some of the apparatus bj" 
means of which Professor Kiessling produced artificially effects similar 
to the cloud glows. It consists essentially of a glass globe through 
which a beam of light from a heliostat may be passed and within which 
the desired condition of suspended dust or vapor may be produced. 
{Nature, xxxi : 439.) 

C. E. Dutton describes, from personal observation, the appearance 
presented in the summer of 1885, by Feather Lake, Plumas County-, 
California. This was thought to have been the scene of the most recent 
volcanic eruption within the limits of the United States, stated by J. 
B. Trask to have occurred in 1850. The lava emitted forms a field about 
three and a quarter miles long by one mile wide, with an average thick- 
ness of over 100 feet. The cone of scorise and lapilli covering the vent 
is GOO feet high and of extremely i)erfect form, showing as yet no rain 
channels even. For a space of foni- or five hnndred yards from it the 



476 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

trees were all killed and their fallen and partly decayed trunks are still 
lying on the ground. All a])i)earances confirm the d}it<? assigned by 
Trask, although at that time it was not probably seen by any persons 
but the Indians. {Soience, Yi: 46.) 

George Davidson adds to this accounts of smoke seen from a distance 
to issue from Mount Baker in 1854, 1858, and 1870, and seeming to in 
dicate eruptions of that mountain, but the locality has not been visited 
and no details of them are known. It is not impossible that still other 
evidences of recent volcanic activity may be found in those sections of 
our country as they come to be more fully explored. (Science, vi: 262 ) 

In the narrative (vol. i) of the Challenger Expedition the volcano of 
Camiguiu Island, which burst forth in 1871, is described and a plate 
given, which is reproduced in Nature, xxxn : 250. 

An English Parliamentary blue book (Corea, No. 3, 1885) contains 
a description by Mr. Carles, the vice-consul at Seoul, of a vast lava field 
in Corea, which is said to exceed even those in Iceland. {Nature, xxxii : 
403.) 

In a memoir of 137 pages jirinted in the Fourth Annual Report of the 
United States Geological Survey, Captain Button gives a detailed ac- 
count of his visit to and examination of the volcanoes of the Sandwich 
Islands in 1882, and applies the results to a discussion of the volcanic 
problem. He examines the various theories suggested by different writers 
to account for the i)iodnctiou of volcanoes, and considers what new light 
is thrown ui)on each by his observations, but does not pronounce de- 
(jidedly in favor of any one of the theories stated. 

At a meeting of the British Eoyal Socictj' (April 16, 1885), Prof. 
Joseph Prestwich presented an interesting paper " On the agency of 
water in Volcanic Eruptions" and other related topics. Admitting as 
an established fact th?t the vapor of water plays an important part in 
many volcanic eruptions, it still remains an open question whether its 
agency is to be regarded as primary or secondary, and how it may have 
reached that part of the earth's crust where its force must be exerted to 
j)roduce an eruption. The author reviews the opinions of Daubeny Mal- 
let and Poulett Scrope, especially of the latter as the explanation most 
generally accepted by geologists. This holds that the outflow of lava 
is caused by the expansion of volumes of steam generated in the molten 
mass beneath the eruptive orifice. The author questions the possibility 
of water penetrating the solid crust of the earth to a sufficient depth to 
reacli a niolten magma within, finding a main difficulty in thermo-dy- 
namic considerations connected with the excessive pressure which must 
result at comparatively moderate depths and temperatures. But the 
most weighty objection to the theory is found in the absence of any dis- 
tinct relation between the discharge of lava and tbat of vapor. There 
are numerous instances in the history of Etna, of Santorin, and especi- 
ally of Mauna Loa where vast discharges of lava have occurred, not 
only withoutsteam explosions, but withalmost the quietofa water spring. 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 477 

On the other hand, paroxysmal eruptions often begin with a violent 
burst, followed by u series of explosions, with but little extrusion of lava, 
and sometimes with absolutely none at all, only scoriae being emitted, 
as at Cosaguina and Krakatoa. The author would account for the pres- 
ence of great quantities of water in some eruptions by the admission of 
the surface waters, or sometimes of sea water, to the volcani(; duct dur- 
ing the eruption itself, and gives diagrams of the altered water levels 
about a volcano during an eruption to show the possibility of such ad- 
missions. Concluding, then, that water plays only a secondary part in 
originating volcanic plienomenn, he is inclined to recur to tlie old hy- 
pothesis of a comparatively thin, flexible earth-crust resting upon a 
molten substratum; but instead of adopting anew the theory of a fluid 
interior to the earth, which physical reasoning has shown to be untenable, 
lie thinks the phenomena are best accounted for by the supposition of a 
thin crust, resting on a viscid layer also of no great thickness, and wrap- 
ping round a solid nucleus. He concludes that the viscid magma thus 
compressed between two solid layers by the secular contraction of the 
globe is extruded where it may find or make an opening. And while 
the extravasation of lava is due to these causes, the presence of vapor 
is due only to the surface and underground waters with whicli the lava 
comes in contact as it rises through the volcanic duct. [Nature^ xxxi : 
592.) 

Siuiilar opinions as to the part played by water in volcanic outbursts, 
and the source from which the water is derived, were expressed before 
the Geological Society by H. J. Johnston-Lavis. {Nature, xxxii: 69.) 

The discussion of jthe theoretical form of volcanic cones, begun by Pro- 
fessor Milne in 1878 and 1879 {GeoL Mag.), is renewed and carried on by 
(reorge F. Becker. {Am. Jour. ScL, xxx : 283.) Milne had regarded the 
problem as being that of the form assumed by loose materials, cinders, 
ashes, etc., and concludes that it would be that generated by the revolu- 
tion of a logarithmic curve round its asymi)tote. But Becker regards the 
mountain as essentially a continuous mass, and deduces the equation of 
the curve, which by its revolution will generate the finite unloaded column 

of " least variable resistance," for which he finds ^ = - — "T"^*" • This 

c 2 

is a special case of the equation ^, _ j^ ^-^ -f B f "^ which he has elsewhere 
shown to characterize the arrangement of sheets of rock in a complex 
fault, and which belongs also to several other physical pheuomeuii. On 
comparing graphically this theoretical curve with actual outlines drawn 
from photographs of volcanic cones, as with Fusiyama and Kumagatake 
in Japan, and Hood and Popocatapetl in America, the similarity of the 
several outlines is at once evident. 

Velain's book "Les Volcans" is briefly reviewed by Captain Duttoii, 
stating the contents of the several chapters, with comments thereon. 
{Science, vi : 255.) 



478 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

On February 16, 1885, the French Academy of Scieuces a7)i)oiiite(l a 
committee to consider communications regarding volcanic and .seismic 
phenomena. The members of this committee are MM. Daubr^e, Jarain, 
Hebert, Fouqu6, and A. Gaudry. {Compt. Rend., c : 438.) 

SEISMOLOGY. 

The earthquake of January 2, 1885, in Maryland and West Virginia 
was studied by Professor Rockwood, and the results were published in 
Science (v : 129), with a maj) of the area aflected. It was most severe in 
the southern part of Frederick County, Maryland, and affected an area 
of about 2,500 square miles, whose center was somewhat south of Lees- 
burg, Va. 

On May 13, 1885, and following days, a destructive earthquake oc 
curred in Cashmere, and the series of shocks was renewed at intervals 
for at least a month thereafter. Many villages were destroyed, with 
the formation of crevasses and landslides, and the loss of life reached 
3,081 persons, besides 25,000 sheep and goats and 8,000 cattle. The 
number of dwellings destroyed was estimated ^t 75,000. The Indian 
Government sent a geological surveyor to report on the scientific 
aspects of this catastrophe. {N'ature, xxxii: 207.) 

The earthquake which has attracted the most attention during the 
past year occurred in the provinces of Granada and Malaga in Southern 
Spain. It was made the subject of special investigation by commis- 
sions appointed by the Spanish Government and by the French Acad- 
emy of Sciences. The first and most violent shock occurred on the 
evening of December 25, 1884, but the shocks were repeated at frequent 
intervals through the remaining days of December, and through elanu- 
ary, 1885, and even in March and April they were still felt occasionally. 
The connection of this earthquake with the disturbed geological charac- 
ter of the Peninsula was discussed in various places by J. Macpherson, 
A. F. Nogues, and others, and most interesting results were reached, 
but they cannot be stated with sufficient brevity for insertion here. 
(See Comptes Bendus, La Nature, Nature, (&c.) 

•The commission appointed by the Spanish Government, as above 
mentioned, made a preliminary report of their labors and conclusions up 
to March 7, 1885. {Bibliography, No. 21.) It forms a pamphlet of 107 
pages octavo, accompanied by two reproductions of photographs of the 
destruction caused by the shock. It deals quiie fully with the matter 
in hand, and states conclusions which, though often only negative, are 
yet of interest. Beginning with a statement of the theories proposed 
by various writers to account tor earthquakes, it proceeds to give a de- 
scription of the orograph}' and hydrography of the two proxinces of 
Granada and Malaga, and then devotes twenty-one pages to the geology 
of the same district, describing in detail the rock formation, with the 
location and direction of its principal fault-lines. The area affected by 
the earthquake is described as bounded toward the north by Madrid 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 479 

and Segovia, toward the west by C^ceres and Huelva, toward the east 
by Valencia and Murcia, and on the south by the Mediterranean; but 
the tremor of the earth was also indicated by instruments even so far 
distant as Home and Brussels and Wilhelmshaven. {Nature, xxxi: 491.) 
Examination of the direction of the cracks in the ground and in build- 
ings, as well as of the curves of intensity estimated accoriiing to the 
Rossi-Forel scale, leads to the conclusion that the focus is to be found 
in the valley of Zaffaraya, where the greatest damage was caused. The 
latter halt of the report is occupied with the physical, magnetic, barom- 
etric, and other jih^nomena attending the earthquake. The number of 
bnildings injured in the two i)rovinces is stated at 17,178, of which 4,399 
are classed as totally destroyed. The injured persons numbered 745 
dead, and 1,485 wounded. In discussing the cause of this earthquake 
the commission accepts the Italian theories, attributing earthquakes to 
the tension of the vapor of water in the subjacent strata. The valley 
of Zaffaraya, indicated above as the probable focus, is a locality where 
much water gathers and easily penetrates beneath the surface, and to 
the vapor of high tension produced from the water here collected in 
deep lying strata are attributed the forces which gave rise to the present 
earthquake. The commission consisted of M. F. de Castro, J. P. Lasala, 
Daniel de Cort^zar, and J. Gonzalo y Tarin. 

On March 2, M. Fouqu^ gave to the French Academy a preliminary 
report on the exploration which the committee under his charge had 
made of the phenomena of the Spanish earthquakes. The committee 
consisted of MM. Fouqu6, L6vy, Bertrand, Barrois, Offret, Kilian, 
and Bergeron, and was accompanied by M. Breon. This first commu- 
nication speaks only of their journey, the facilities afforded by the Span- 
ish authorities, aud certain phenomena observed, reserving the discus- 
sion of theoretical questions to another time. {Compt. Eend.^G: 598.) 

The full reports of the French committee may be found in Comptes 
Rendus Tome c, and besides a general consideration of the phenomena 
and their cause, they include two special reports on the geology of the 
district by members detailed for that purpose. In the general con- 
clusions reached they agree with the Spanish commission, and fix the 
centrum in an elliptical area surrounding Zaffaraya ; but in regard to 
the cause of the disturbance M. Fouque rejects the theory which at- 
tributes it to the local tension of water vapor, and would refer it rather 
to the general volcanic forces within the globe. 

The Meteor ologuche Zeitschrift for February, 1885, contained a notice 
by Dr. Eschenhagen on the effect which was apparently produced by 
the Andalusian earthquakes on the magnetic apparatus at Wilhelms- 
haven. The effect seems to have been not at all of a magnetic charac- 
ter, but ])urely mechanical, the delicately suspended magnets acting as 
the ]>endulum of a seismoscope. Attempts to draw from the observed 
times sDme inference as to the rate of propagation of tiie disturbance 



480 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

were deprived of value by the uncertainty of time at the origin in An- 
dalusia. {Xature, xxxi: 491.) 

0. W. C. Fuchs, in his twentieth annual report {Min. u. Petrog. Mittheil., 
1885) notes the dearth of volcanic phenomena in 1884, there being noth- 
ing worthy of mention except the slight activity of Vesuvius and Etna, 
and of St. Augustin in Alaska, which are all disposed of in a single 
page, and then describes the earthquakes of the year. His report men- 
tions 123 shocks, distributed in time as follows: winter, 57 (December, 
19; January, 28; February, 10); spring, 24 (March 13; April, 7; May, 4); 
summer, 21 (June, 5; July, 9; August, 7); autumn, 21 (September, 8; 
October, 1 ; Kovember, 12). On fourteen days two or more places were 
affected, and twelve localities were shaken on two or more dates. This 
report mentions only four American earthquakes (March 25, August 10, 
September 18, 20), Professor Eockwood's report for the year not having 
been received by Dr. Fuchs before this was printed. Those earthquakes 
deserving individual mention are: March 24, 1884, in Upper and Cen- 
tral Slavonia, where, in Diakovarand other places, numerous buildings 
suffered injury ; April 22, in England; May 13, in Crevassa, where a 
church and other buildings were destroyed ; May 19, on the Persian 
Gulf, in whi(jh 200 persons fell victims by the overthrow of their houses ; 
August 10, in the Eastern United States ; and the Spanish earthquakes 
in December. In regard to the earthquakes in Spain, Dr. Fuchs dis- 
cusses at some length their relation to the geological structure of the 
Peninsula, concluding that the centrum was not a point, but a line par- 
allel to the Sierras Tejeda and Almijara. He differs from those writers 
who call these earthquakes the most important in Europe, thinking that 
of the earthquakes which have occurred during the last ten years, those 
of Belluno, 1873, of Agram, 1880, and of Chios, 1881, are of equal im- 
portance. An appendix mentions Verbeek's book on Krakatoa, and 
adds to his own previous reports 170 earthquake dates, 80 for 1882, 90 
for 1883. These, however, do not indicate so many hitherto unreported 
earthquakes, as many of them refer to continuous series of light shak- 
ings, and others give additional details regarding earthquakes already 
mentioned in his reports for those years. 

In his Fourteenth Notes on American Earthquakes {Am. Jour. Sci., 
XXIX: 425), Professor Eockwood has collected the records of earthquakes 
for 1884. The list contains 54 items, classified geographically as follows: 
Canadian Provinces, 5; New England, 9; Atlantic States, 5; Missis- 
sippi Valley, 7; Pacific^ Coast, 21; West Indies, 2; Central America and 
Colombia, 3; Peru, 2; Uruguay, 1. By seasons they were: winter, 12 
(December, 2; Jannary,8; February, 2); spring, 15 (March, 8; April, 7; 
May,0); summer, 8 (June, 4: July, 0; August, 4); autumn, 19 (Septem- 
ber, 4; October, 5; November, 10); spring and summer together, 23; 
autumn and winter together, 31. Most of the shocks were light. The only 
ones of destructive importance were : November 5 and 0, on the Isthmus 
of Panama and in Colombia, when the damages were estimated from 



VTTLCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 4-^1 

$250,000 to $400,000, and the cliurch of San Pedro at Call was wrecked 5 
November 22, at Lima, Pern, where many bouses were injnred, and August 
10, in the Eastern and Middle States, when walls were cracked and chim- 
neys overthrown. Two earthqnakes of the year were made the subject 
of special study, and maps of the regions affected are given, showing the 
isoseismals, so fi\r as material for drawing them was at hand. In the 
earthquake of August 10 the area of greater intensity is nearly ellip- 
tical, extending from Hartford, Conn., to West Chester, Pa., and the 
conclusion reached is that this earthquake was due to some rupture of 
the strata underlying the immediate vicinity of New York City. On 
September 19 an earthquake occurred in Ohio and Indiana, affecting 
an approximately circular area with a diameter of about 400 miles. 
The isoseismals are much more regular in this earthquake than in that 
of August 10, and its cause is referred to the geological anticlinal 
known as the Cincinnati arch, which crosses the western part of Ohio 
from south to north. 

M. C. Detaille has also published {VAstronomie, 1885, p. 183) a list of 
earthquakes felt in 1884. It gives 165 dates, and is especially rich for 
;S()uth American regions, including very careful reports from Valparaiso. 
It gives reports of 32 shocks at Valparaiso, none of which are contained 
in Eockwood's nor In Fuchs' lists. In regard to the earthquakes of 
North America it is much less comj)lete and often inaccurate. 

The catalogue of earthquakes recorded by the Palmieri seismograph 
at the Imperial Meteorological Observatory in Tokio is contained in 
vol. VIII of the Transactions of the Seismological Society of Japan. 
It includes 109 shocks (Nos. 498-60G) on dates between July 28, 1883, 
and April 25, 1885. For most of them the force and direction is given 
in Palmieri's scale, with the duration, but without other information. 

The following was compiled from the records of the Meteorological 
Observatory in Tokio. It gives the total number of earthquakes re- 
corded in the several months during the ten years ending December 
10, 1884, as follows : January, 53 ; February, 50 ; March, 73 ; April, 43 ; 
May, 51 ; June, 40 ; July, 36; August, 27 ; September, 15 ; October, 47; 
November, 51 ; December, 60. The average per month for the ten years 
is 45 ; that for the six winter months (October to March) is 50, and that 
for the six summer months is 35, or about 40 per cent, less, which gives 
some support to the notion that earthquakes are more frequent in winter 
than in summer. {Nature, xxxi: 322.) 

The system of seismic observation established in Italy under the di- 
rection of M. E. de Possi includes twenty-eight stations already in op- 
eration and reporting to the Central Geodynamic Observatory at Eonie. 
All are provided with delicate instruments, and study not only the sen- 
sible earthquakes, but also, and more particularly, those minute move- 
ments of the ground which are only recorded by the seismograph. 
These movements are already distinguished into two classes: (1) those 
characterized by a very rapid vibration; (2) those exhibiting a very 
H. IMis. 15 31 



482 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

slow wave-like motion. (Coinpt. Bend., c: 758.) The work of this obser- 
vatory is also described in La Nature (i: 363), and illustrated by speci- 
mens of the daily maps issued by the observatory. The maps given are 
those illustrating the phenomena of the earthquake which occurred near 
Modena on February 26, 1885. 

The work of the Swiss Seismological Commission, from its appoint- 
ment in 1879, is summarized by W. M. Davis in Science (v : 196). Among 
other things there will be found here the statement of the scale of 
intensity adopted by the Italian and Swiss observers, and commonly 
known as the Eossi-Forel scale. In forming a number to represent 
the "value" of an earthquake, it is necessary to combine with the 
intensity-scale number others to represent the area affected and the 
number of accessory shocks. For Switzerland the areas are grouped 
by diameters of 5, 50, 100, and 150 kilometers, and the weak, medium, 
and strong shocks are reckoned separately (n, n', n"); then the adopted 
value is V= (intensity scale x area scale) + n + 2u' + 3n". Professor 
Davis thinks this formula would be improved by squaring the intensity 
number to offset the much greater intervals between the upjjer numbers 
of that scale. {Science, V: 197.) 

The third report of the Swiss Seismological Commission, by Forel, 
covers the years 1883 and 1883. It gives a detailed list of the earth- 
quakes observed during the two years, with the accessory shocks. The 
intensity of each earthquake is marked according to the Eossi-Forel 
scale, and its " value" computed by the formula mentioned above. These 
numbers are tabulated and compared with the mean of the two years 
1880 and 1881, and with the separate numbers for those years. From 
the results the author infers that there was a maximum of seismic 
activity in Switzerland in 1881, which a comparison of the monthly 
values shows to have been in November of that year* and that in 1882 
and 1883 the activity was notably diminished. This was especially so 
in the latter year, in which no earthquake "value" reached even the 
average value for 1881, and the mean "value" for 1883 scarcely exceeded 
one-third of the mean value for 1881. {Arch, des Set., Phys., et Nat, xiii : 
377.) 

M. Montessus, in transmitting to the French Academy his work on 
Central American Earthquakes, published in San Salvador, states that 
he entered upon the work and collected a large amount of material 
with the purpose of formulating, if possible, the rules by which the in- 
habitants, apparently from meteorological considerations, announce in 
advance the occurrence of an earthqmike. He was, however, soon con- 
vinced that the connection between earthquakes and meteorological 
phenomena, if any, is not yet sufficiently understood to base predictions 
u])ou it, although a hope is expressed that the further study of material 
collected may give some results. {Compt. Rend., C: 1312.) 

Commenting upon the not infrequent observation that earthquake 
shocks are felt more severely at the surface of the earth than in mines, 



VtJLCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 48.") 

J. \je Conte suggests that a reason for it may be found in a principle 
of wave motion published by Airy in 1849. A normal sea wave strik- 
ing against a wall will be reflected, but if a "broken-headed" wave or 
breaker strike such a wall the normal part only will be reflected, while 
the broken part, if it strikes perpendicularly, will be destroyed, or if it 
strike at a small angle, will then run along as a. strong wave clinging 
to the surface of the wall. He regards the surface of the earth as a 
reflector for earthquake waves, and notes that the waves themselves 
are pre-eminently broken waves, and hence ought to follow the above 
law. {Science, vi: 540.) 

A fourteen-page note on the East Anglian earthquake of April 22, 
1884, with two maps, occupied nearly the whole of Symon's Meteorologi- 
cal Magazine for May, 1884. A full report on the same earthquake by 
K. Meldola and William White, illustrated by numerous photographs, 
was read before the Essex Field Club in March 1885 {Nature, xxxi : 
395). It forms a book of 225 pages and deals very fully with the cir- 
cumstances of the earthquake. It is divided into eight sections, of 
which the first is historical, giving a catalogue of sixty previous British 
earthquakes from A. D. 103 to 1881 ; the second describes the method 
of securing information, and the third and fourth are devoted to the 
phenomena of the shock. In summarizing this portion it is stated that 
"the main axis of disturbance extends on each side of a line about five 
miles in length, having a direction northeast and southwest from 
Wivenhoe to Pelton." In other portions of the report the geological 
relations are considered, the effect of tlie shock on the underground 
waters, and the correspondence in direction of the seismic axis with fault- 
lines and with the coast-line of Essex. In speculating on the cause of 
the earthquake the authors only venture to suggest "a sudden rupture 
of deep-seated rocks under a. state of strain"; and add — " the precise for- 
mation in which this rupture occurred cannot even be conjectured." 
{Nature, XXXiii: 265.) 

Dr. H. J. Johnston-Lavis announced the approaching publication, by 
subscription, of a " Monograph of the Earthquakes of Ischia," a memoir 
dealing with the seismic disturbances in that island witjiin historic 
times, with special observations on those of 1881 and 1884. {Nature, 
XXXI : 563.) 

Before the Seismological Society of Japan, Professor Koto read a 
paper on "Movements of the Earth's Crust," observed in Japan, con- 
cludipg that the south and east coasts are gradually rising, while the 
north and west coasts are subsiding. This phenomenon is no doubt 
connected with the greater seismic activity along the eastern sea- 
board, shown by the fact that almost all of the earthquakes felt at 
Tokio come from the east and southeast. At the same meeting, K. 
Sekiya, who is in charge of the Seismological Observatory of the Uni- 
versity of Tokio, described in detail the earthquake of October 15, 1884, 
which afi'ected an area of 24,728 square miles, and noted its similarity 
to that of February 22, 1880, both originating on the east side of the 



484 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Bay of Tedo, and both affecting the same area. {Nature, XKXi : 515.) 
Commenting upon this same earthquake, Prof. J. A. Ewiug, of Dundee, 
notes that the instrumental record shows an actual motion of the ground 
of 4.3 centimeters, an amount which is in most striking contrast with 
the 6 to 7 millimeters that previous experience in Japan had led him to 
regard as the extreme amount of displacement in ordinary Yedo earth- 
quakes. {Nature, xxxi : 581.) 

Early in 1885 Professor Ewing received a grant of £100 from the 
Government grant committee with which to institute observations of 
earth movements at Ben IsTevis. He proposes to set up apparatus with 
which to look for earth tremors, and also for slow changes of level of 
the ground. {Nature, xxxi : 298.) 

The French Academy of Sciences has proposed as the subject for the 
Vaillant prize the following : " To study the influence which may be 
exerted on earthquakes by the geological state of a country, by the ac- 
tion of water or of other physical causes." The memoirs competing 
for this prize are to be delivered before June 1, 1886. {Gompt. Rend., ci : 
1413.) 

A second conference of persons interested in seismology was called by 
the Director of the United States Geological Survey, and met in Wash- 
ington on November 25, 1885. The conference was presided over by 
Captain Dutton, of the Geological Survey, and included Mr. Hayden, of 
the Survey, Professors Paul, of the Naval Observatory, Mendenhall and 
Marvin, of the Signal Service, Davis, of Cambridge, and Eockwood, of 
Princeton. It was agreed that the most important advance in the study 
of seismic phenomena was to be reached through a distribution of seis- 
moscopes, with sufficiently accurate clocks, over certain areas in the 
United States which have been shown to be most subject to such dis- 
turbances. At the same time the organization of a large corps of non- 
instrumental observers was thought desirable. The work of bibliogra- 
phy was reported to be in a good state of progress, and several seismo- 
scopic instruments were exhibited. {Science, vi: 491.) 

SEISMOMETRY. 

In a long paper printed in the eighth volume of the Transactions 
of the Seismological Society of Japan, Professor Milne has gathered a 
detailed description of ten series of experiments carried on at different 
times from 1881 to 1884, for the purpose of investigating phenomena con- 
nected with earth vibrations. The experiments were all performed in 
or near the city of Tokio, and consisted in originating artificial earth 
vibrations, usually by dropping a heavy weight or exploding dynamite, 
and then studying the circumstances of their propagation by means 
of the various seismographs devised by himself or Professor Ewing 
or Professor Gray. Some of these experiments have been already de- 
scribed elsewhere by the author {Lond. Phil. Mag.). The paper is closed 
by a statement in six pages of fifty-seven general results, among which 
are these ; The first effect upon a seismograph with a single index is an 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 485 

impulse in a normal direction, and similarly a bracket seismograph ar- 
ranged to indicate normal motion begins its indications before a similar 
instrument indicating transverse motion, implying that the normal 
wave travels more rapidly than the transverse. Near to the origin the 
normal motion is first outwards, then inwards, and the motion inwards 
is greater and more rapid than the motion outwards ; while at a dis- 
tance from the origin the first motion may be inwards, and the two 
phases are practically of equal amplitude. Eoughly speaking, the am- 
plitude of normal motion is inversely as the distance from the origin. 
The laws of transverse motion are practically the same as those of nor- 
mal motion, but less pronounced. IliTear to the origin the amplitude of 
the transverse motion is less, but the period greater than that of the 
normal motion. The velocity of transmission varies from 200 to GOO feet, 
which is much less than the velocities obtained by Mallet and Abbot. 

On October 10, 1885, Flood Rock in Hell Gate was blown up by dyna- 
mite. The preparations for this event had been going on for ten years, 
and involved the excavation of galleries beneath the rock and the storing 
therein of nearly 300,000 pounds of explosives. It was expected that 
such an explosion would cause vibrations of the earth similar to an earth- 
quake, and as the day for its occurrence approached preparations for 
studying the propagation of this vibration were made both by the offi- 
cers of the Engineers, under whose direction the work was done, and by 
volunteers from the Seismological Conference in Washington, who went 
to Xew York for the purpose, and established their instruments at such 
points in the neighborhood as were found available. Directors of astro- 
nomical observatories near New York were also requested by them to 
co-operate by watching for the arrival of the earth wave. (Science, vi: 
315.) Unfortunately the firing of the mine was slightly delayed, and 
did not take place until about fourteen minutes after the hour announced. 
This delay interfered seriously with the observations of the volunteer 
observers, a considerable number of whom gave up the watch before the 
explosion occurred, either supposing that the vibration had failed to 
reach them or being deceived by some local tremor. It was, however, 
caught at Princeton, N. J., and at Harvard College. The observations 
obtained by the volunteers were quite discordant, but indicate a much 
higher velocity than was obtained by Mallet, or by General Abbot from 
the Hallett's Point explosion in 1876. General Abbot had arranged a 
series of observers to Patchogue, L. I,, in one direction, and to West 
Point in another, who were in telegraphic communication with the firing 
I)oint at Astoria. {Science,Yi: 431.) His results, although also discord- 
ant, give velocities much higher than those deduced from natural earth- 
quakes. (Science, vii: 25.) 

An instrument for the automatic registration of earth-tremors and 
eartli-tips is described by John Milne (Nature, xxxii : 259). Its essen- 
tial parts are a i3endulum one meter long, suspended from a tripod about 
5 feet high, and acting upon the short upper arm of a light balanced 



486 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

lever, whose long arm touches a strip of paper covered with a film of 
iodized starch. This paper is carried by clock-work beneath the point, 
and every five minutes the clock sends a galvanic current throi/gh the 
pointer and leaves a dot upon the starch film. On examining the rec- 
ords thus made he finds (1) sometimes for days the i^ointers are. station- 
ary; (2) sometimes they are in a state of tremor, which may continue 
for ten or twelve hours, and the sparks mark the paper at many jioints 
in a band several millimeters wide; (3) sometimes the pointer will slowly 
wander from the straight line and then return, but the author is not yet 
certain whether this last is due to a slow earth tip or to local causes. 
The delicate instrumental observations proposed to be made in the 
Takashima mine were found impracticable, and it was then proposed to 
remove the instruments elsewhere. 

K. Sekiya has described a form of Ewiug's duplex pendulum seis- 
luometer, which it is stated can be made at a cost of only about $0, and 
which gives indications agreeing very well with those obtained from the 
more elaborate instrument. {Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan, viii: 83.) 

JDr. F. Du Bois has translated from a paper received from F. Faura, 
of Manila, a description of the Cecchi seismograph constructed for the 
observatory there. The apparatus is attached to the perpendicular face 
of a marble slab, and consists of a clock, a vertical pendulum, several 
weights suspended bj' sj>rings, and a moving sheet of smoked paper. 
The whole is so arranged by a combination of levers and strings that 
any motion, either horizontal or vertical, will start the clock and will 
put in motion the smoked i)aper, on which the vertical pendulum re- 
cords its vibrations, as does also a spring-suspended weight. The 
arrangement is comi^licated, needs a number of delicate adjustments, 
ujust necessarily be expensive, and finally must be entirely reset through- 
out after every shock. {Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan, viii : 90.) 

A novel seismograph is described by M. Cordenons in La Xature i: 
237. It is intended to record the vertical and horizontal shocks, 
their duration, and the time of the initial shock. It consists of two 
horizontal pendulums to mark vertical motions, and four inverted pen- 
dulums, each of which last is free to fall only in one direction, the four 
motions being directed along the four sides of a square, so that only 
that one will fall which is in the direction of the earth's, motion. The 
fall of any one of the i)eudulums suffices by a system of cords to release 
a clock pendulum previously fastened out of the perpendicular, and so 
to start the clock. When once the arrival of an earthquake shock has 
been signaled by the motion of some pendulum, no further record is 
possible until the instrument is reset. It is therefore a seismoscope 
rather than a seismograi>h. 

W. Werner has given to German readers a good account of the re- 
cent appliances for the instrumental observation of earthquakes, the 
material for which is mostly drawn from Ewiug's memoir on Earthquake 
Measurement. {Zeitschr.fiir Instrmnentenlcunde, v: 217,308.) 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 487 

BIBLIOGKAPHY OF VULCANOLOGY, ETC. 1885. 

BOOKS AND SKPARATE REPRINTS. 

(1) Gkorge F. Becker. — The Geometrical Form of Volcanic Cones and the Elastic 
Limit of Lava. 8vo. 11pp. 2 diagrams. [Am. Jour. Science (1885), III: xxx: 
28:5-^9:5.] 

'J) A. BoscoviTZ. — Les volcans. 8vo. 12+492 pp. 100 woodcuts. Paris, 1884. 

3) D. Carbone-Grio. — I terremoti di Calabria e di Sicilia nel secolo xviii. Ricerche 

e studi. 8vo. Napoli, 1884. 

4) F. A. FoREL. — Les tremblements de terre ^tudi^s par la Commission sismologique 

Suisse pendant les ann6e8 1882 et 1883. 3me rapport. 1 plate. [Archiv. des 
sci. phys. et nat., Geneve (1885), xill: 377—396.] 

5) F. A. FOREL. — La formule des seiches. 8vo. 12 pp. [Arcliiv. des sci. phys. et 

nat., Geneve, 1885.] 

6) C. W. C. FucHS. — Die vulkanischen Ereignisse desJahres 1884. 20. Jahresbericht. 

[Miu. u. Petrog. Mittheil. (1885), vii: 146-179.] 

7) SiEGMUND GtJNTHER. — Lehrbuch der Geophysik und physikalischen Geographie. 

Bd. L 8vo. 10+418 pp. Stuttgart, 1884. 

8) Hi^BERT. — Sur les tremblements de terre du midi de I'Espagne. [Compt. Rend. 

(18=5), c: 24-27.] Abstract. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), ii: 39-4: 1.] 

9) J. KiESSLiNG. — Die Diimmerungserscheinungen im Jahre 1883 und ihre physika- 

lische Erklarung, 8vo. 53 pp. 5 woodcuts. Hamburg, 1885. 

10) P. Lazerges. — Du r61e de I'eau dans I'univers. Tremblements de terre. 8vo. 

Opuscule autogr. 1885. Paris (?). 

11) G. DE Lisa. — Vulcanologia. 4to. 13 pp. Palermo, 1885. 

12) J. Macpherson. — Los terremotos de Andalucfa. Madrid, 1885. 

13) R. Meldola and W. White. — Report on the East Anglian Earthquake of April 

22,1884. 225 pp. Maps, illustr. London, 1885. Review [Nature (1886), xxxiii: 
26.5-266.] 

14) Domingo de Oruete yDuarte. — Informe sobre los terremotos occurridos en el 

end de Espana en diciembre de 1884 y euero de 1885. 8vo. 52 i)p. map, 22 
photos. Malaga, 1885. 

15) C. G. RoCKWOOD, Jr. — Notes on American Earthquakes, No. 14. 2 maps. [Am. 

Jour. Sci. (1885), II[ : xxix: 425-437.— Notice, Nature (1685), xxxii : 300.] 

16) C. G. RoCKWOOD, Jr. — An account of the progress in vulcanology and seismology 

in the years 1883 and 1884. 8vo. 21 pp. From Smithsonian Report. Wash- 
ington, 1885. 

17) M. S. DE Rossi. — Bolletino decadico pubblicato per cura del Osservatorio ceiitralo 

del Real Collegio Carlo Alberto in Moncalieri. Anno xiii, 1883-84 ; anno xiv, 
1884-85. [Mentioned Am. Meteorol. Jour., ii: 330.] 
IS) Ch. Velain. — Les cataclysmes volcaniques de 1883. Ischia, Krakatau, Alaska. 
Conference faite h la Sorbonne. 8vo. Paris, 1885. 

19) R. D. M. Verbeek. — Krakatau. Erste gedeelte. Uitgegeven op last van Zyne 

Excollentieden Goavemeur Generaal van Nederlandsch-Indie. 8vo. vi+lOO 
pp. Batavia, 1884. French translation. 8vo. 104 -pp. Batavia, 1885. 

20) R. D. M. Verbeek. —Krakatau. Tweede gedeelte. 8vo. xxxix+pp. 101-546. 25 

colored drawings, 43 maps and ligures. Batavia, 1885. [Reviewed. Nature 
(1885), xxxii: 601-604; Petermann's Mittheil. (1886), xxxii: 10-24.] 

21) Terremotos de Andalucfa. luforme de la comision uombrada para su estudio 

dando cuenta del estado de los Trabajos en 7 de marzo do 1885. 8vo. 8+105 pp. 
2 photos. Madrid, 1885. [Abstract, Science (1885), vi: 393-394; Reprint, Bol. 
del Minist. de Fom. de la Rep. Mex. (1885), torn. X: Nos. 56-71.] 

22) Transactions of the Seismological Society of Japan, vol. vui. Bvo. 108 pp. 5 

plates. Tokio, 1885. 



488 SCIENTIIIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

PERIODICALS. 



(24 
(25 

(26 
(27 



(29 
(30 

(31 
(32 



(34 
(35 
(36 

(37 

(38 
(39 

(40 

(41 

(42 
(43 
(44 

(45 

(46 



A. d'Abbadie. — Sur les 86i8inea. [Compt. Rend. (1885), ci : 629-631. — Noticed, La 

Nature (1885), ii: 287.] 
ViRLET d'Aoust. — Sur un tremblement de terre partial de la surface seule du sol, 

dans le d6partement du Nord, [Compt. Rend. (1885), ci: 189-190.] 
ViRLET d'Aoust. — Nouvean tremblement de terre partial aux environs de Douai. 

[Compt. Rend. (1885), ci: 487.] 
ViRLET d'Aoust. — Les tremblemeuts de terre partiels dans le d^partemeut du 

Nord. 24 juin et 5 aoM 1885. [La Nature (1885), u : 210-211.] 
ViRLET d'Aoust. — Examen des causes diverses qui d6terminent les tremblemeuts 

do terre. [Bullet, de la Soc. g6ol. de France (1885), xiii: 231, 443.] Reviewed 

by H. Behrens. [Neu. Jalirb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1886), i: 43-44.] 
R. J. Balderston. — Sabmariuo Disturbance. Dec. 22, 1884. [Nature (1885), 

xxxii,.576.] 
C. Barrois. — Sur les derniers tremblements da terra de I'Andalousie. [Anuales 

de la Soc. g6o\. du Nord (1885), xii: 324.] 
C. Barrois et A. Offret. — Sur la constitution g6ologique de la Sierra Nevada, 

des Alpujarras et de la Sierra deAlmijara. (Rapport.) [Compt. Rend. (1885), 

c: ]0G0-10G4.] 
A. Battajstdier. — Les volcans et les mesuras magn^tiques. [L'Astronomie (1885), 

46 aun., 232.] 
H. Behrens. — Review of Varbeek's "Krakatoa. Erster Tbeil." [Neu. Jahrb. f. 

Mineralogie, etc. (1885), i: 52-60.] 
M. Bertrand et W. Kilian. — Sur les terrains secondaires et tertiairesde I'An- 
dalousie (provinces de Grenada et de Malaga). (Rapport.) [Compt. Rend. 

(1885), c: 1057-1060.] 
A. BoiLLOT. — Observations des lueurs cr6pusculaires. [Compt. Rend. (1885), ci : 

1032-1033.] 
A. BoscowiTZ. — 'Les tremblemeuts de terra en Espagna. 2 illust. [Cosmos, 34» 

ann., No. 2, pp. 45-50.] 
F. DE BoTELLA Y DE HORNES.— Observations sur les tremblements de terre 

de I'Andalousie du 25 d6cembre 1884, et semaiues suivantes. [Compt. Rend. 

(1885), c: 196-197. -Noticed, La Nature (1885), i: 127.] 
F. DE BOTELLA Y DE HoRNES. — Los terremotos de Malaga y Granada. [Bol. 

do la Soc. geogriif. de Madrid, xviil : 65. Bol. del Minist. de Fofci. de la Rep. 

Mex. (1885), tom. x, Nos. 75-79. Reviewed by Penck. Nan. Jabrb. f. Mine- 
ralogie, etc. (1885), II : 286-287.] 
R. Breon. — Exjiloration de I'lle Krakatau a I'occasion da I'explosiou du 27 aoftt 

1883. 9 illustr. [La Nature C1885), i : 282-286, 323-326, 371-374. ] 
M. Walton Brown. — On the observation of eartb-sbakes or tremors in order to 

foretell tbe issue of sudden outbursts of fire damp. [Proc. North of Eng. Inst. 

Min. and Mech. Eugiueers (1884), xxiii: — .] 
R. Caj^aval. — Beitriige zur Keuntniss der ostalpiuan Erdbeben das Jahres 1882. 

[Jahrb. d. naturhist. Laudsmuseums von Karnthen (1885), Hft. xvil, p. 1.] 
J. E. Clark. — Professor Kiessling's investigations into the origin of the lata 

sunset glows. [Nature (1885), xxxii : 637-638.] 
F. CoRDENONS. — Nouveau sismographe, 1 plate. [La Nature (1885), i: 237-238.] 
W. H. Dall.— Further notes on Bogosloff Island. [Science (1885), V: 32-33.] 
George Davidson. — Recent volcanic activity in the United States ; eruptions 

of Mount Baker. [Science (1885), vi : 262. ] 
W. M. Davis. — The work of the Swiss Earthquake Commission. [Science (18S5), 

v: 196-198.] 
W. M. Davis. — The reddish-brown ring round the sun. [Science (1885), v: 

455-456.] 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 489 

(47) Ch. Davison. — On a Possible Cause of the Disturbance of Magnetic Compass- 

Needles durino; Earthquakes. [Geol. Majj. ( 188.">), D. III. vol. ii : 210, ] 

(48) J. Dexza. — La luiuiero cr6pu8culaire. [Couipt. Kend. (1885), c: 1581-158/?.] 

(49) C. Detaille.— Statistique des tremblements de terra. 1 map. [L'Astronomie 

(1865), 4*' anu., 183-191.] 

(50) J. S. DiLLER. — Lava fiom the new volcano on Bogosloff Island. [Science (1885), 

v: GG-67.] 

(51) DoMEYKO. — Observations recueillies sur les tremblements de tcrre, pendant 

quarante-six ans des6jour au Chili. [Compt. Kend. (1885), C: 19:J-195. — No- 
ticed, La Nature (1885), i : 127. Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), ii: 43.] 

(52) F. Drouet.— TremblementdeterreeuAlg6rie. [La Nature (1885), 14«ann.,i: 4G.] 

(53) F. Du Bois. — Further notes on the earthquakes of Ischia. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of 

Jai>an (1SS5), viii: 95-99.] 

(54) C. E. DUTTON.— Hawaiian volcanoes (illustr.). [4"» Ann. Eep. U. S. Geol. Sur- 

vey, pp. 81-219.]- Abstract. [Science (1886), vii: 158-160.] 

(55) C. E, DuTTON*. — The latest volcanic eruption in the United States. [Science 

(1885), VI : 46-47.] 

(56) C. E. DuTTON.— The theory of volcanoes. [Science (1885), vi : 255-256.] 

(57) C. E. DuTTON.— The Volcanoes and Lava fields of New Mexico. [BuU. Philos. 

Soc. Washington (1885), vu: 76.] 

(58) J. A. EwixG. — A recent Japanese earthquake. 1 fig. [Nature (1885), xxxi: 

581-582. Science (1885), v: 483-484.] 

(59) J. A. EwiNG. — Ou the measurement of movements of the earth, with reference 

to proposed earthquake observations on Ben Nevis. Abstract of paper before 
Brit. Assoc, Aberdeen meeting. [Nature (1885), xxxiii: 68-69.] 

(60) F, Faura (trans, by F. Du Bois). — The Cecchi seismograph, a new model con- 

structed for the observatory at Manila. 2 plates. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan 
(1885), viii: 90-94.] 

(61) C. Flajvimariox. — Les tremblements de terre de I'Espagne. 2 maps. 5 figs. 

[L'Astronomie (1885), 40 ann., 60-69, 81-99.] 

(62) C. Flammarion. — Les tremblements de terre. Explication et th^orie. 9 figs. 

L'Astronomie (1885), 4« ann., 121-138.] 

(63) F. A. FoREL. — Tremblement de terre du 13 avril 1885 observ6 en Suisse. [La 

Nature (1885), i: 334.— Trans. Nature (1885), xxxi: 610.] 

(64) F. A. FoREL. — L'druption de Krakatoa entendue jusqu'aux antipodes. [La Na- 

ture (1885), i: 362-363.] 

(65) F. A. FoREL. — Le cataclysme de Krakatoa entendu aux antipodes. [L'Astrono- 

mie (1885), 4« ann., 383-385.] 

(66) F. A. FOREL.— Bruits souterrains entendus le 26 aotlt 1883 dans I'llot de Cai- 

man-Brae, Mer de Caraibes. [Compt. Kend. (1885), C : 755-758.— Trans. Na- 
ture (1885), XXXI : 483-484.] Reviewed by Behrens. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Minera- 
logie, etc. (1886), i: 46.] 

(67) F. A. FOREL.— Tremblement de terre en Suisse. 20 juin 1885. [La Nature (1885), 

II : 90; Trans. Nature (1835), xxxii : 295.] 

(68) F. FoREL.— Tremble-terre du 26 septembre 1885. [La Nature (1885), u : 318-319.— 

Nature (1885), xxxii : 574.] 

(69) F. FouQUE. — Premieres explorations de la mission charg^e de I'dtude des r^cents 

tremblements de terre de I'Espagne. [Compt. Kend. (1885), C : 598-601.] 
(70J F. FoUQUifi. — Explorations de la mission charg^e de I'^tude des tremblements de 
terre.de I'Andalousie. (Kapport.) [Compt. Kend. (1885), C : 1049-1054.] 

(71) F. FoUQUiS. — Relations entre les ph6nom&nes pr6seut6s par les tremblements de 

terre de I'Andalousie et la constitution g^ologique de la r6gion qui en a 6t6 le 
si^ge. (Rapport.) [Compt. Kend. (1885), c : 1113-1120.] 

(72) F. FOUQU^.— Propagation de la secousse de tremblement de terre du 25 d^cembre 

1884. Rectifications. [Compt. Rend. (18S5), c : 1436.] Review of Noa. 69-72 
by H. Behrens. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1886), i : 44-45.] 



490 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

(7.S) F. Fouqt;]^.— The causes of earthquakes. [Science (1885), v : 198-199.] 

(74) W. Gaxloway. — Earthquakes and fire damp (review of, No. 39). [Nature, 

XXXI : 312-313.] 

(75) A. Germain. — Sur quelques-unes des particularit^s observ^es daus les r^cents 

tremblements de terre de I'Espagne. 1 fig. [Compt. Rend., c: 191-193.]. Ab- 
stract. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), ii: 41.] 

(76) O. GuMAELius. — Samling af underriittelser ora jordstotar i Sverige. [Geolog. 

Foren i Stockholm Forh. (1885), Vll: 500-501.] 

(77) H. J. Johnston-Lavis. — Vesuvius and Monte Somma, [Geo]. Mag. (1885), D. 

Ill, vol. II : 302.] 

(78) H. J. Johnston-La VIS. — The new outbreak of lava from Vesuvius. [Nature 

(1885), XXXII : 55.] 

(79) H. J. Johnston-La VIS. — The physical conditions involved in the injection, ex- 

trusion, and cooling of igneous matter. (Geolog. Soc, April 29, 1885.) [Na- 
ture (1885), XXXII : 69.] 

(80) H. J. Johnston-Lavis.— Vesuvius. [Nature (1835), xxxii : 108.] 

(81) H. J. Johnston-Lavis.— Krakatao. [Nature (1885), xxxiii : 6.] 

(82) JuLiEN. — La th^orie des volcans et le plateau central; historique, theories ac- 

tuelles, vues nouvelles. [Club Alpin frangais (1S83), 10® an., 358-391.] 

(83) F. Laur. — Influence des baisses barom^triques sur Ics tremblements do terre et 

les ph6uom^nes ^ruptifs. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c : 289-292. ] Abstract. [Neu. 
Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), II: 39."] 

(84) G. A. Lebour. — On some recent eaiihquakes on the Downham coast and their 

probable causes. (Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1885.) [Nature (1885), xxxii : 559.] 

(85) Jos. Le Conte. — Earthquake shocks more violent on the surface Ihan in mines. 

[Science (1885), vi : 540.] " 

(86) LifivY ET Bergeron. — Sur la constitution g^ologique de la Serrania do Ronda. 

(Rapport.) [Couipt. Rend. (1885), c : 1054-1057.] 

(87) T. C. Lewis.— Artificial earthquakes. [Nature (1885), xxxii : 295.] 

(88) Alex. Llenas. — Bruits souterrains enteudus h I'lle de Saint-Domingue, le 28 

ao£ltl883. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 1315.] 

(89) J. Macpherson. — Sur les tremblements de terre de I'Atidalousie du25 d6cembre 

1884, et semaines suivantes. (With comments by Daubr6e.) [Couipt. Rend. 
(1885), c: 136-138.— Notice. La Nature (1885), i : 111. Neu. Jahrb. f. Minera- 
logie, etc. (1885), II : 40-41.] 

(90) J. Macpherson. — Tremblements de terre en Espagne. [Compt. Rend. (1885), 

C : 397-399.— Revue Scientif. (1885). xxxv : 299-304.] Abstract. [Neu. Jahrb. 
f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), ii : 42.] 

(91) "W. McFarland.— Flood Rock explosion. [Science (1885), vi : 431.] 

(92) T. C. Mendenhall.— The explosion at Flood Rock. [Science (1885), vi : 326- 

328.] 

(93) G. Mercaxli. — Le case che si sfasciano ed i terremoti. [Rassegua nazionale, 

Firenze, anno VI, vol. xxi, fasc. 16, p. 12.] 

(94) G. Mercalli. — Sulla natura del terremoto ischiano de 28 luglio, 1883. [Rendi- 

conti del R. Istituto Lombardo (1884), ser. ii, vol. xvii, fasc. xix.] 

(95) G. Mercalli. — Notizie suUo stato attuale dei vulcani attivi italiani. [Atti della 

Soc. ital. di sc. nat. (1885), xxvii: .] 

(96) G. Mercalli. — II terremoto sentito in Lombardia nel 12 settembre, 1884. [Atti 

della Soc. ital. di sc. nat. (1885), xxviii: 7.] 

(97) G. P. Merrill. — Volcanic dust from Southwestern Nebraska. [Science (1885), 

v: 335.] 

(98) E. Metzger. — Der Ausbruch von Krakatau im .Jalire 1883. 1 plate (review of 

No. 20). [Fetermauns Mittheil. (1886), xxxii: 10-24.] 

(99) S. Mexjnier. — Ponce provenant du Krakatau. [La Nature (1885), ii: 79-80.] 

(100) John Milne.— Seismic experiments. 3 plates and many figs. [Trans. Seis. 

Soc. of Japan (1885), viii : 1-82.— Abstract, Nature (1885), xxxii: 114-115.] 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 401 

(101) John Milne.— On the observation of eaxtli-tips and earth-tremors. 6 figs. 

[Nature (188.')), xxxii : 259-20-2.] 

(102) John Milne. — Fifth report of the conjinittee appointed for the purpose of inves- 

tigating the earthquake phenomena of Japan. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1885. 

[Nature (1885), xxxil: 526-528.] 
(10;5) John Milne.— An earthquake invention. [Nature (1885), xxxn : 573-574.] 
(104 J PE MoNTESSUS.— Sur les tremblements do terre et les 6ruption8 volcaniques 

dans rAui6riqne centrule. [Compt. Eend. (1885), c: 1312-1315. Review by 

Behrens. Neu. Jahrb. f. Miueralogie, etc. (1886), i : 46.] 

(105) DE MONTESSUS. — Les volcans de I'Am^rique centrale. [Rev. Sclentif. (1885), 

XXXV : 804.] 

(106) Philip Neale.— The Krakatoa eruption. [The Leisure Hour (1885) ?— ?,379- 

381, 486-488, 554-557; extract in Am. Jour. Sci. (1885) III: xxx: 396.] 

(107) G. Neumayer. — Ueber die durch den Ausbruch des Vulkana Krakatau am 26. 

bis 27. August 1883 hervorgerufeueu atmosphtirisclieu Erscheinungen. [Mit- 
theil. Geogr. Gesellsch. Hamburg, 1884, p. 309.] 

( 108) A. F. NoGU^s. — Le tremblement de terre do I'Andalousie. [La Nature (1885), i : 

90-91.] 

(109) A. F. NoGui:s.— Les tremblements de terre du 25 d^cembre 1884 en Andalousie; 

2 maps. [La Nature (1885), i : 107-110.] 

(110) A. F. NoGUi:s.— Les tremblements de terre de d^cembre 1884— Janvier 1885, 

en Andalousie. 2 plates. [La Nature (1885), i: 150-155, 303. — Abstract, Na- 
ture (1885), xxxi: 417.] 

(111) A. F. NoGufes. — Ph6nom^ne8 g^ologiques produits par les tremblements, de 

terre de I'Andalousie da 25 d^cembre 1884 au 16 Janvier 1885 (with com- 
ments by H6bert). j;Compt Rend. (1885), c : 253-257.— Cosmos, 34« an., No. 2, 
p. 50. — Notice, La Nature (1885), i : 142-143. Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. 
(1885)11:41-42.] 

(112) G. Nordenstrom. — Preliminiirt meddelande cm jordbiifniugarna i Spanien i 

December, 1884. [Geol. Foren 1 Stockholm Forh. (1885), vii : 600-603.] 

(113) Ornstein. — Ueber die gegenwartig Erdbebenperiode in ostlichen Mittelmeer. 

[Ausland (1885), p. 521.] 

(114) Domingo de Orueta. — Los terremotos de Andalucla. [Bol. de la Soc. geogr^f. 

de Madrid, xviii : 57. Bol. del Minist. de Fom. de la Rep. Mex. (1885), Tom. 
x: No. 73. Reviewed by Penck. Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), n: 
286-287. ]■ 

(115) Richard Owen. — American earthquakes. [Pacific Sci. Monthly. March, 1885, 

p. 1-4.] 

(116) Richard Owen. — British earthquakes and their seismic relations. Diagram. 

[Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci. (1884), xxxiii : 438-443. — Abstract, Am. Metcorol. 
Jour. (1884), i: 317-321.] 

(117) U. M. Paul— Seismological notes. [Science (1885), v: 199-201.] 

(118) H. M. Paul.— Timing the Flood Rock explosion. [Science (1885), vi: 325,431- 
432.] 

(119) J. W. Pike. — The genesis and conservation of volcanic energy. [Proc. Am. As- 

soc. Adv. Sci. (1884), XXXIII : 432-438.] 

(120) Jean Platania. — Les tremblements de terre de Nicoiosi (Sicile). [La Nature 

(1885), II : 3.50.] 

(121) Joseph Prestwich. — On the agency of water in volcanic eruptions, with some 

observations on the thickness of the earth's crust from a geological point of 
view, and on the primary cause of volcanic action. (Royal Soc.) [Abstract, 
Nature (1885), xxxi: 592-594.] 

(122) R. A. Proctor. — How earthquakes are caused. [Harper's Mag. (1885), urxi: 

139-146.] 



492 SCIENTIFIC EECOKD FOE 1888. 

'123) E. Eenou. — Sur uiie secousse de tremblement de terre ressentie h. Orleans. 

[Compt. Ecnd. (1885), ci: 584.] 
;i24) C. G. EoCKWOOD, Jr. — Systematic earthquake observations. [Am. Jour. Sci. 

(1885), III, XXIX : 79-80.] 
;i2r)) C. G. EocKWOOD, Jr. — Volcanic phenomena of 1883. [Am. Jour. Sci. (1885), 

III, XXIX : 80-81.] 
[12G) C. G. EoCKWOOD, Jr.— The earthquakes in Spain. [Am. Jour. Sci. (1885), III, 

XXIX : 282-284.] 
[1-27) C. G. EoCKWOOD, Jr. — Notice of Pt. ii, Vol. vii. Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan. 

[Am. Jour. Sci. (1885), III, xxix: 346.] 

[128) C. G. EOCKWOOD, Jr.— Earthquake of January 2, 1885. Map. [Science (1885), 
v: 129-130.— Notice with map, La Nature (1885), i: 211.] 

[129) C. G. EocKWOOD, Jr. — The Spanish earthquakes. 2 maps, 3 woodcuts. [Sci- 
ence (1885),v: 191-195.] 

[130) Fr. Schafarsik. — Statistik der Erdbeben in Ungamim Jahre 1884. Taf. m. 
[Foldt. Kozl. (1885), p. 202.] 

[131) Fr. Schneider. — Ueber den vulkanischen Zustand der Sunda-Inseln und der 
Molukken im Jahre 1884. 5 figs. [Jahrb. der k. k. Geol. Eeichsanst. Wien 
(1885), XXXV : 1-26.] 

[132) K. Sekiya. — Note on Ewing's duplex pendulum seismometer, with records ob- 
tained by it. 1 plate. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. (1885), vui: 83-85.] 

[133) C.PiAZZi Smith and D. A. Stevenson. — An earthquake invention. [Nature 
(1885), xxxii: 213, 625; xxxiii : 7.] 

[134) J. P. VAN DER Stok. — Uitbarstiugen van vulkanen en aardbevingen in den O. 
I. Archipel waargenonion gedurende het jaar 1882. [Naturk. Tijdschrift voor 
Nederlandsch-Indie. (1883), XLiii : 143-149.] 

[135) G. M. Stone. — The ruddy glow around the sun. [Science (1885), v : 415.] 

[136) G. J. Symons. — The great English earthquake, April 22, 1884. 2 maps. [Sy- 
mons' Meteorol. Mag. (1884), xix: 49-62.] 

[137) T. Taramelli e G. Mercalli. — Eelazione sulle osservazioni fatte durante uu 
viaggio nella regione della Spagna coplite dagli ultimi terremoti. [Ecndi- 
conti della E. Accad. dei Lincei (1885), pp. 450-460.] 

[138) W. B. Taylor. — On the crumpling of the earth's crust. [Am. Jour. Sci. 
(1885), III, XXX : 249-266.] 

[139) Th. Thoroddsen. — Eine Lavawiiste im Innern Islands. [Petermanns Mit- 
theil. (1885), xxxi : 285-294, 327-339.] 

[140) G. TisSANDiER. — Le tremblement de terre d'Ischia du 28 juillet 1883. 1 map. 
(Eajiport de la Commission.) [La Nature (1885), i : 91-92.] 

[141) G. TissANDiER. — Les tremblements de terre de I'Andalousie, les grandes cre- 
vasses de Periana et de Gu6v6jar. 2 plates. [La Nature (1885), i: 225-226. J 

[142) G. TisSANDiER. — L'6tude dea tremblements de terre en Italic. 6 maps. [La 
Nature (1885), 1 : 363-364.] 

[143) "E. T." (Eafael Eoig y Torres?).— Los temblores de tierra en Espana. 
[Cronica CientiBca (1885), ano viii: 49-53.] 

[144) Tremeschini. — Propagation des tremblements de terre. [L'Astronomie (1885), 
4«ann., 429-430.] 

[145) E. D. M. Verbeek. — Over de tydsbepaliug der grootste exidosie van Krakatau. 
(Versl. en Mededeeling d. k. Akad. te Amsterdam. Afd. Natuurk. 1884, 3de 
Eeeks. Deoli: 45-57.) Eeviewed by H. Behrens. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Minera- 
logie, etc. (1885), l: 437-438.] 

[146) W. Werner. — Seismologische Mittheilungen. [Zeitschr. far Instrumenten- 
kunde (1885), v: 217-227, 308-312.] 

[147) C. A, Young. — Flood Eock explosion observed at Princeton, N. J. [Science 
(1885), VI : 335-336.] 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 493 

PKINTED WITHOUT AUTHOR'S NAME. 

(148) A tlond-glow apparatus. (Kiesslings.) [Nature (1885), xxxi : 439-440.] 

(149) Catalogue of earthquakes. [Nature (1885), xxxi: 351, 352.] 

(150) Catalogue of earthquakes, July, 1883, to February, 1885, at the Imperial Me- 

teorological Observatory at Tokio. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan (1885), viii: 
100-108.] 

(151) firnption du volcan Smeroe dans I'ilede Java. [La Nature (1885), ii: 102-103. 1 

(152) Lagers tremblements de terre. [L'Astronomie (1885), 4« anu., 232.] 

(153) L'<5ruptionduV6suve (May, 1885). [La Nature (1885), i : 398;ii:48. 1 illus.] 

(154) Les tremblements de terre ^tudi^s par la commission si-smologique suisse pen- 

dant l'anu6e 1881. [Archiv. des sci. phys. et. nat., Geneve (1884), xi: 147.] 

(155) Les tremblements de terre orog^niques ^tudids en Suisse. [L'Astronomie 

(1884), III: 13—?] 

(156) Les tremblements de terre du 27 novembre et du 28 d6cembre 1884. 1 illus. 

[La Nature (1885), i: 77-78.— Notice, Science (1885), v : 204.] 

(157) Le tremblement de terre du 27 novembre 1884. [L'Astronomie (1885), 4« ann., 

31-33.] 

(158) Obsei-vaciones Seismicas (Spain, December, 1834, to March, 1885). [Bol. del 

Minist. de Fom. de la Rep. Mex. (1885), Tom. X: No. 71.] 

(159) Recent earthquakes (Cashmere, England, Switzerland). [Nature (1885), xxxii : 

174-176.] 

(160) The ascent of Popocatapetl. [Science (1885), vi: 390-392.] 

(161) The earthquakes in Spain. 1 map. [Nature (1885), xxxi: 199-200; 237-238.] 

(162) The Flood Rock explosion felt at Harvard CoUege. [Science (1885), at: 353- 

354]. 

(163) The results of the Krakatoa eruption. 3 illus. (Abstract of No, 38.) [Science 

(1885), VI : 291-293.] 

(164) The Sierra Nevada of Spain. The scene of the recent earthquakes. [Science 

(1885), v: 195-196.] 

(165) Un tremblement de terre h Mendoza, R^publique Argentine, 30 mars 1885. 

[La Nature (1885), ii : 51.] 

(166) Vibrations du sol produites par les trains des chemins de fer. [La Nature 

(1885), 1 : 74.] 



VOLCANIC EEUPTIONS AND EARTHQUAKES IN ICELAND 

WITHIN HISTORIC TIMES.* 



Translated by George H. Boehmer. 



Very little account is taken in the Icelandic sagas of nature and its 
phenomena, yet already at an early day the volcanoes of Iceland have 
been mentioned. The "speculum regale," written in Norway in 1230- 
1250, dwells on volcanoes and hot springs in Iceland, and advances some 
sui)erstitious ideas as to their origin. " The Icelandic Annals " quote 
volcanic eruptions and violent earthquakes, but without entering into 
details; and a large amount of information on this subject exists only 
in manuscript. 

The first mention by foreign authors of the volcanoes of Iceland are 
found in the "Topographia Hibernise," by Giraldus Cambrensis (1187), 
and in " Chronicon de Lanercost" (1275), while the earliest descriptions 
of the island were given in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. In 
these the most absurd ideas regarding Iceland and other northern coun- 
tries are advanced, and unlimited fancies and superstitions are disi)layed 
as regards the Hecla. At about the middle of the sixteenth century 
the brothers Johannes Magnus and Clans Magnus wrote about Iceland, 
and at about the year 1600 Oeorg Peersonand BlefJcenius published some 
volumes on the same island, in which they distinguish themselves by 
their ridiculous accounts and illusions. They were reported by the 
Icelandic scientist, Arngrlmr Jonsson (1568-1648), who, in several works, 
endeavored to give the foreigners a correct idea of the country. But 
it is only since the middle of the eighteenth century, and only by the 
efforts of Thormodhr Torfason ( + 1719) and Ami Magnusson (+1730) 
that the north has commenced to take an interest in the language and 
the history of Iceland. Ole Worm was the first, in Denmark, to write 
something on the remarkable nature of that country. Nevertheless the 
knowledge of it was but very imperfect until the middle of the eighteenth 
century. In 1746, Johan Anderson, burgomaster of Hamburg, published 
a volume on Iceland, in which he corrected many inaccurate ideas, and 
which was followed by the publication, in 1752, of Niels Horrebow's ex- 
cellent work "Tilforladelige Efterretninger om Island." But no work 
has ever served a better purpose than the " Reise igjennem Island," 
Soro, 1772, by Eggert Olafsson and Bijarni Pdlsson; it has been trans- 

* Translalion of the rdsumd of '"Oversigt ov'er de islaiidske Viilkauers Historio af 
Tli. Tlioroddscu, Laeror ved liealskoleii paa Modhnivellir, Island." 

495 



4'J6 scientific record for 1885. 

lated into Freucli and German, and notwithstanding its antiquity, it is 
still the best source of knowledge of this country. At the close of the 
last century the island was visited by several naturalists, among whom 
we mention N. Mohr and Sveinn Pd^lsson, of whom the latter has left 
some still unpublished works on the volcanoes and glaciers of Iceland. 

The geology of Iceland was not thoroughly studied until the com- 
mencement of the nineteenth century. Among those who devoted 
themselves to this subject we must mention G. S. Mackenzie (1810), C. 
Krug von ISTidda (1833), and Eugene Eobert, who, in 183o-'36, was a mem- 
ber of de Gaimard's expedition. Steenstrup, Hallgrimsson, and Schythe 
visited Iceland in 1839-'40, during which period Steenstruij investigated 
the fossil plants of the miocene period, which later were described by 
Oswald Heer in his " Flora fossilis arctica." Bjoru Gunnlaugsson also 
contributed considerably to the knowledge of the country by construct- 
ing, during the years 1831-1843, a map of the island. In 1840, the year 
following the last eruption of Hecla, the ishtnd was visited by three 
celebrated scientists, R. Bunseu, Des Cloizeaux, and Sartorius v.Walters- 
hausen, and during their sojourn they achieved considerable scientific 
results. Th. Kjerulf visited the island in 1850 and G. G. Winkler in 
18r)8. The geologist, F. Zirkel, who explored the island in 1860, fur- 
nished verv valuable contributions to the knowledge of the rocks of Ice- 
land. The " Keise nach Island," by Preyer and Zirkel, is one of the best 
descriptions known. PaijkuU (18(37) constructed the first geological 
map of Iceland, and F. Jonstrup, during his two visits in 1871 and 187G, 
studied several volcanoes and suli)hur and coal beds. 

Halldor Jakobsson (1734-1810) was the first to occupy himself with 
the history of the Icelandic volcanoes, but his work has not been of 
much utility, on account of the frequent inaccuracies in the location of 
volcanoes and the dates of their eruptions. G. Garlieb was engaged 
in similar studies, but his work, too, contains many ina(;curacies. Eu- 
gene Robert, Sabine Baring-Gould, and Zirkel have partly fallen into the 
same mistakes as the preceding authors. The information having 
mostly been obtained in an indirect way, it is not to be wondered at 
that the results are faulty. The Icelandic poet and naturalist, Jonas 
Hallgrimsson, was the first to give a true account of the history of the 
Icelandic volcanoes, but his memoir only exists in manuscript. Many 
Icelanders have given accounts of various volcanic eruptions during tlie 
past century, but the greater j^artof th( se observations are still unpub- 
lished, and are preserved in libraries or otherwise. As regards the 
eruptions of the nineteenth century, J. G. Schythe has given an excel- 
lent account of that of Hecla in 1845, and F. Jonstrup has described 
the volcanoes of Dyngjrifjall, Sveinagjii, and Myvatn. 

Notwithstanding the many celebrated scientists who have visited 
Iceland, its geology is at present but little known, but this fljids an 
explanation in the extent of the country, in the many difficulties which 
present themselves to the traveler, and the limited time at their com- 
mand. 



VULOANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 497 

LOCATION OF THE ACTIVE VOLCANOES. 

The interior of Iceland forms a plateau of about 630 meters in height, 
which, towards the north, northwest, and east, is cut up into a large 
number of fjords and valleys; it slopes gently towards the north- 
northeast (with a rpean inclination of 0° 23' 52" between VatunjokuU 
apd the promontory of Tjornes); and toward the southwest (with an 
inclination of 0° 13' 1" between the plateau of Sprengisandr and the 
mouth of the Thj6rs4) ; while the steepest slopes are on the east and 
northwest sides, where they form abrupt cliffs facing the sea. The 
most elevated portions are covered with glaciers, which occupy a 
superficial surface of 14,000 square kilometers ; the currents of lava 
covering 7,400, of which 3,400 result from the Odddahraun. Two 
chains of volcanic mountains, the Reykjanes and the Snaefellsnes, ex- 
tend on both sides of the Gulf of Faxe easterly across the plateau. 
The formation of the east and northwest portions of the island is 
mostly trap, while that of the central portion is soft gravel, with banks 
of palagonite, a formation in which the volcanic phenomena seem to 
be prevalent. Volcanic eruptions appear to be confined to two locali- 
ties, one in the south of the island, running southwest to northeast, 
and the other in the north, running from south to north. Eruptions 
of trachyte have occurred in the eastern portion of the ishmd. Glacial 
and alluvial deposits cover large spaces. There are a large number 
of extinct volcanoes; but we shall confine ourselves to those which 
have been active within historic times. 

We may distihguish eight groups of active volcanoes in Iceland : 

(1) Group of Snaefellsnes (Eldhorg). 

(2) Group of the Hecla (Hecla, Randhukambar). 

(3) Group of Beylcjanes (Thurrdrhraun, Trolladyngja, Eldeyjar). 

(4) Group of Katla (Katla, Eyjaijallajokull*). 

(5) Group of Varmdrdalr. 

(G) Group of the volcanoes south of the VatnajoJcull (Oraefajokull, 
Skeidhardrjokull, Grimsvatn, Sidhujokull). 

(7) Group of the volcanoes of Odddahraun (Kverktjall, D^ngjutjall, 
Sveinagjd). 

(8) Group of the volcanoes of Myvatn (Krafla, Leirhuukr, Hrossa- 
dalr, Bjarnarflag, Dalfjall). 

(1) Group of Snaefellsnes. — The only active volcano in this group is 
the Eldhorg (64° 47' Lat. N., 34° 54' Long. W. of Copenhagen), which 
at about the year 950 threw out from a crater of 200 meters iu diameter 
and 53 meters depth a current of lava 11,300 meters long by 3,770 meters 
wide. 

(2) Group of the Hecla.— Thoi Hecla (63° 59' N . Lat. and 32° 19' Long. 

* Jokull is the Icelandic word for glacier. Eyjafjallajokull, for iu.'tance, signifies 
the glacier of Eyjafjall, but at the same time serves to designate the volcano or 
mountain of that name. 

fl. Mis. 15 32 



498 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

W. of Copenbagen) is the most celebrated of the Icelandic volcanoes. 
It has been studied by Schythe and Kjerulf, It is located on a cliain 
of 23,000 meters in length, rises in three or four terraces to a height of 
1,556 meters, and is surrounded by large lava beds of 080 square kilo- 
meters in extent. A little below the summit are craters which, in 1845, 
were formed in a crevice running southwest to northeast. Parallel 
with the Hecla emerge from the lava five ridges of soft gravel stone," 
all running, partly disconnected, from southwest to northeast; in the 
midst the Hecla rises on a base of 630 meters. The largest streams of 
lava are found on the east slope of the Hecla, on which side the base 
also is more elevated than on the west side. Several series of craters 
appear around the Hecla, and at the foot of the chains of soft gravel 
stone. At Torfajokull, to the east of the Hecla, the remarkable trachyte 
lava current of Hrafntinnuhraun* is met with. The Hecla has hp,d 
eighteen eruptions within historic times. 

The Randhukamhar (64° 12' N. Lat., 32° 25' Long. W. of Copenhagen) 
is a volcano extending, like the Hecla, in a direction southwest to north- 
east. Only one eruption (in 1343) is known to have occurred, whereby 
a formerly very fertile valley became covered with ashes and pumice 
stone. 

(3) Group of EeyJcjanes. — The peninsula of Eeykjanes should be con- 
sidered a continuation of the Hecla. It is composed of stratified 
masses; gravel, alternating with trap-rock, forming plateaus of about 
125 meters in height, completely covered with lava, from which rise, in 
a direction from southwest to northeast, a series of volcanoes and cones 
of scoria, reaching to a height of 630 meters, containing several hot 
springs and solfatares. Here, in X. Lat. 64° and W. Long. 33° 55', one 
meets with the lava stream of Thurrdrhraun, dating from the year 1000. 
It started from two craters situated in the northwest portion of the 
Hellisheidhi and extended to a distance of 15 kilometers. In its south- 
east portion, 4 kilometers long, it has an inclination of only 1° 50', but 
it then descends with an inclination of 24° to 30°, and from a height 
of 140 meters into the plain of Olfus. Nearly in the middle of the 
peninsula, in 63° 50' K Lat. and 34° 14' Long. W. of Copenhagen, 
there rises to the northwest of the solfiitare of Krisnvik the volcano 
of Trolladyngja. The Icelandic annals mention six eruptions of the 
TroUadyngja, which have been credited to the volcano of Odadha- 
hraun of the same group, but which, according to the investigations of 
Jonas Hallgrimsson, appear to be those of the Reykjanes. On the 
southwest point of Reykjanes are several hot springs, and in the same 
direction, about llj kilometers from the coast, a series of volcanic 
islands, known under the name of Fugles Kjaer or Eldegar, in tlie 
neighborhood of which several submarine eruptions have occurred. 

(4) Group of Katla. — Upon the grand glaciers of My rdalsjokull (1,320 
square kilometers), separating the district of Skaptafell (Skaptafells- 



* Ilraim ilewignatea in Icelandic a current of lava. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 499 

syssel) from that of Eang.irvallii, are located two centers of eruption, 
the EyjafjallajokuU and the Kaila. The neighborhood of this gronj) 
consists of sandy deserts and bowlders, which have their origin in the 
glacial movement and in volcanic eruptions. Tiie configuration cf 
several districts have in this manner been entirely changed within his- 
toric times. The combined power of the glacial movement and of the 
volcanoes is plainly seen in many instances. At one place where for- 
merly quite a considerable fjord existed, there is at present a desert, and 
several small mountains which formerly rose from the coast are at 
present quite a distance away from the sea. The Eyjalfjallnjoknll 
(630 37' K Lat. and W. Long. 32° 16' 18"), to the west, is a truncated 
cone of 1,706 meters in height. The principal crater, has tumbled in 
and is tilled up with ice. The eruption of 1831 took place from a crevice 
of about 50 meters, on the northwest slope of the mountain. The Katla 
(63° 37' N. Lat., 31° 35' W. Long, is a deep crater, situated in the east- 
ern portion of the M;^rdalsj6kull, and ordinarily filled with ice. It has 
several times been attempted to closely examine this volcano, but always 
in vain. 

From the Katla, descending to the base of the glacier, extend two 
valleys, the one in a southeasterly direction, towards the M;frdalssandr, 
beyond the isolated mountain Hafrsey, the other one in a southwesterly 
direction, towards the Solheimasandr. The greater part of the water- 
courses issuing from the glaciers at the time of the eruptions descend 
through the valley to the southeast; still some few find their way 
through the southwesterly valley. The eruptions which in the annals 
have been ascribed to the M;^rdalsjokull, MidhdalsjokuU, Hefdhajokull, 
Solheimajokull, and Katla, shouhl all be credited to the Katla, since 
all these names have been given to the same volcano. Several districts 
and a large number of farms have been destroyed by the eruptions of 
the Katla. Neither the Katla nor the other ice-covered volcanoes in the 
south of Iceland have ever emitted any lava. This, next to the Hecl;i, 
is the most active volcano, twelve or thirteen eruptions having been 
recorded within historic times. 

(5) Group of Yarmdrdalr. — The most violent eruptions ever recorded 
in Iceland within historic times occurred in 1783, to the northeast of 
the glacier of Myrdalr, in the neighborhood of the sources of the 
Skaptd. These eruptions issued from a large number of craters, situ- 
ated to the southwest, north, and east of Mont Laki (64<^ 2' X. Lat.), ami 
throughout a valley named Varmardalr, and not' from the Skaptiirjo- 
kull, as mentioned in most geological manuals, although it is not implied 
that on other occasions eruptions have not taken place from craters in 
that region of glaciers. The craters which occupy our nttention in tlu^ 
present case are but imperfecitly known. Magnus Stephensen (1781) and 
Sveinn Pallson (1704) examined several of them superficially. Those of 
the valley of Varmardalr extend throughout a length of about 15 kilom- 
eters. The currents of lava which were formed are the most extensive 



500 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

ever produced in the world in any single eruption within historic times. 
They cover a track of 397i square kilometers, and in several places are 
from 157 to 188 meters thick. The lava spread towards the south in 
two branches, the westerly one, 83 kilometers long, into the bed of 
the Skapt4, and the easterly one, 38 kilometers long, into that of the 
Hoerf^sflj6t. According to Lyell its volume is considerably larger 
than that of Mont Blanc;, its mean inclination, according to Elie de 
Beaumont, is 0° 30' ; but in the absence of exact measurements these 
figures can be relied on only approximately. 

(6) Group of volcanoes south of the Vatnajokull. — On tbe south side of 
the Vatnajokull, in an unknown desert, are several volcanoes, but none 
of them have as yet been examined, and even their exact location is not 
known, with the exception of the highest mountain in Iceland, the 
OrcqfajdJcull, or Hnappafellsjokull (64© 0' 48" N. Lat. and 29° 20' 10" 
Loug. west of Copenhagen), which rises like a promontory on the south 
brink of the Vatnajokull to a height of 1,960 meters. Formerly human 
habitations extended to the foot of the glacier, but these regious have 
been completely devastated by the eruption of 1349. Palsson ascended 
the Orsefajokull in 1793. From all sides extend large glaciers down to 
the low lands. To the west of the Oriefajokull is the glacier of Skei- 
(Ihardrjokull, and still farther to the west that of SidhujokuJl; between 
these is the lake of Grtmsvdtn. The annals mention several eruptions 
in this region, but exact data are wanting. 

(7) Group of volcanoes of Odddhahraun. — To the north of the Vatna- 
jokull is the grand lava current of Odddhahraun, covering a surface of 
3,400 square kilometers, and on which a considerable number of craters 
and volcanoes are located, the greater part of which are still unexplored. 
The height of the Odddahraun, above the sea, at the foot of the Vatnajo- 
kull, is 942 meters, but on the inner side only 471 meters. To the north 
of the Vatnajokull, in W. Long. 29° 30', is the volcano Kverkfjall, from 
which eruptions took place in 1717 and 1873, and likely quite frequently 
within historic times. To the northwest of the Kverkfjall rises, at an 
elevation of 1,400 meters above the sea level, the volcanic group of 
D'ljngjufjall, explored by F. Jonstrup in 1876. These mountains encircle 
the valley of Askja^ which has a surface of about 57 square kilometers, 
and an altitude of 1,100 to 1,200 meters. The ground is covered with 
iava beds having, in the east, towards the opening of the valley, an in- 
clination of 1° 26'. In the southeast angle of Askja an abyss of 230 
meters depth has formed, in the middle of which is found a circular 
lake of 1,200 meters in diameter, with a water temperature, in 1876, of 
22° 0. On the sides of this pit are craters which erupted in 1875. 

To the north of the Dyngjutjall mountains, to the west of Jokulsii i 
Axarfirdhi, in a flat and sterile jilain, named M^vatnsoraefi, in which 
there are some ancient craters, an eruption took place in 1875 in the 
«'revice of Sveinagjd, in the midst of a grassy i)lain, whereby a current of 
lava was created, 23,000 meters long and 1,900 meters wide, the volume 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 501 

of which, according to F. Jonstrup, represents 310,000,000 of cubic 
meters. The craters are divided into three groups, of which the south- 
erly is 475 meters, and the northerly 423 meters above ^ea level. The 
hi ghe«it crater extended in 1870 to 34 meters above the i)l:iiu. 

(8) Group of the volcanoes of Myvatn. — The surroundings of the lake 
My vatn constitute a very remarkable volcanic region ; it is nearly entirely 
covered with lava beds strewn over with craters, which give it the ap- 
pearance of a lunar landscape. To the east of the farm of Reylijoldidk 
stretches out a long chain which terminates in the volcano of LeirhmiUr, 
in the neighborhood of which the grand eruptions of 1724-1730 took 
place. Into the same period fall other eruptions, issuing from the 
Krafla^ to the east of the Leirhnukr, from the Urossadalr, the Bjarnar- 
fag, and from another crater in the vicinity of the BeyJ<jahUdharf.cl, on 
the east slope of the chain of Dalfjall, craters all within a short dis- 
tance from each other and in a right line south of the Leirhnukr. 
Several extensive solfatares occur in the vicinity, especially at ^Nama- 
fjall. The annals mention besides, still without indicating the locality, 
several eruptions, the greater part of which undoubtedly have taken 
place in the unknown regions which surround the Vatnajokull. 

The various lists indicate quite a number of volcanic eruptions in 
sections, in which, according to the annals, such phenomena have not 
occurred within historic times. Likewise one might discard the fol- 
lowing localities as places of eruption : Asmundarnupr, Thoreyjarnupr, 
Hofsjokull, Balvjokull, Theistareykir, Fremri-Namar, Hvertjall, Saud- 
fellsjokull, Mosfell, Herdhubreidh, Skapt^rjokull, Breidhamerkrjokull, 
Thorsmork, and Torfajokull. It is true, there are craters in some of 
these localities, but there is not one historical proof of their eruptions. 
The foreign publications repeat many errors relative to the situations 
of the volcanoes of Iceland, caused by the imperfect knowledge which 
their authors possessed of the topography of this country. 

CHEONOLOGICAI, LIST OF VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS AND EARTHQUAKES 

IN ICELAND. 

900 (approximately). Eruption of the Katla. The entire region froju 
the Eyjard and the Holmsd, to the river K41m, north of the Alptaver, 
and the district of Dynsk6gahverfl were completely devastated. At 
about the same time the sandy plain of Solheima appears to have been 
subjected to the action of water and ice, whereby the course now called 
Jokulsd a Sdlheimasamli seems to have been formed. Several lists 
multiply this eruption, dating them in 894 and 934, but there is no cer- 
tainty as to the correctness of these dates. 

950 (approximately). Eruption of the Eldborg and formation of the 
lava current of Borgarhrauu. The farm of Hripr formerly stood on 
the site of the present crater. 

1000. Eruption on the Hellhlieidlii ajid formatiou of lava streain of 
Thurr^irhraun, 



d{)2 SCIENTIFIC KECOED FOE 1885. 

1013. Baithquake, causing the loss of eleven lives. 

1104. First eruption of the Hecla. 

1151. First eruption of the Trolladyngja. Several buildings were 
destroyed by shocks of earthquake. 

1157. Second eruption of the Hecla, on the 19th of January, and earth- 
quake shocks, causing the death of several persons. 

1167. Earthquake at Grimsnes, with a loss of nineteen lives. 

1182. Earthquake. Eleven people killed. 

1188. Second eruption of the Trolladyngja. 

1206. Third eruption of the Hecla, December 4, lasting until the fol- 
lowing spring. 

1211. Submarine eruption neax Eldeyjar, southwest of Reykjanes. 
Several new islands formed and others disappeared. In the south of 
Iceland an earthtjuake, whereby eighteen people lost their lives. 

1222. Fourth eruption of Hecla. 

1225. Eruption in some unknown locality. The winter of this year 
is called " the winter of sand." 

1226. Second submarine eruption to the southwest of Beykjanes. 
1231. Third submarine eruption to the southwest of Eeylcjanes. 
1238. Fourth submarine eruption to the southwest of BeyJcjanes. 
1240. Fifth submarine eruption to the southwest of Beykjanes. Ac- 
cording to Grisli Oddsson half of the peninsula was destroyed. 

1245. Second eruption of the Katla. Torrents of water were thrown 
upon the plains of Solheima and the fields were covered with cinders 
to a thickness of 16 centimeters. 

1260. Violent earthquake shocks in the north of Iceland. 

1262. Third eruption of the Katla. The volcano hurled out a mass 
of water, ice, and stones,* which, it is said, raised the Solheimasandr 
38 meters. (?) 

1294. Fifth eruption of the Hecla, accompanied by violent earth- 
quakes and formation of crevices. The water in the wells assumed a 
milky white color and the Rangd changed its course. The rivers were 
covered with dross, which the currents carried as far as the Faroe 
Islands. Several hot springs disappeared on this occasion, while others 
were formed. 

1300. Sixth eruption of the Hecla, on the 10th of July. This was one 
of the most violent actions of this volcano. The cinders thrown out 
were carried by the prevailing southwest winds to the north of the 
island, where they caused great destruction, which was followed by a 
famine. For two days complete darkness prevailed, and the Hecla 
underwent considerable changes. On the 30th December an earth- 
quake destroyed the farm of Skardh. Five hundred people, mostly in 
the north of the island, died of the consequences of this eruption. 

* These torrents of water, ice, stones, gravel, and sand, produced by the volcanic 
eruptions in Iceland, are called "Jokellob." 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 503 

1308. Earthquakes in the south of Iceland, destroying eighteen farms 
and killing six people. 

1311. Fourth eruption of the Katla, on the 25th of January, com- 
pletely ravaging the district of Lageyjarhverfi. Earthquake shocks on 
the 10th and 11th of January destroyed fifty one farms. 

1332. Eruption in the vicinity of the district of SidJia on the 2<1 of 
December. The exact spot has not been located. 

1339. Earthquake on the 22d of May, in the south of the island, de- 
stroying a number of farms above Skeidh, Floi, Holtamannahoeppr, 
and between the Thj6rs4 and the Eystri Rang4. In the mountains of 
Hengil a hot spring appears, with a circumference of 75 meters. 

1340. Third eruption of the Trolladyngja. 

1341. Seventh eruption of the Hecla, on the 19th of May, accompanied 
by an enormous fall of cinders, which devastated several districts in the 
surrounding country, while at the same time an earthquake destroyed 
several farms. In the same year an eruption of the Oraefajokull is 
mentioned. 

1343 (approximately). Eruption of the Randliulcamhar. In the adjoin- 
ing valley of Thj6rs4rdalr eleven farms were completely destroyed. 
Of some of them the ruins are still in existence. 

1349. Second eruption of the Oraefajokull, which devastated five 
fertile districts (Herreder). After the ice covering the mountains 
began to melt, the torrents thus formed swept away forty farms and 
two churches, and those which bent their course towards the sea carried 
such a quantity of sand and gravel that a beach had formed after the 
eruption at a place where before the water had a depth of 56 meters. 
Some lists give the dates of this eruption in the years 1350 and 1362, 
respectively. 

1360. Fourth eruption of the Trolladyngja. Pumice stone was car- 
ried westward, towards the sea, as far as M.f rar, and the eruption was 
plainly visible at Snaefellsnes. 

1370. Earthquake, causing the tumbling down of twelve farm-houses 
in Olfus. 

1389 -'90. Eighth eruption of the Hecla. The principal eruption took 
I)lace from two new craters which opened below the farm of Skardh. 
It lasted to the middle of the year 1390 and destroyed two farms. The 
same year saw the fifth eruption of the Trolladyngja and one of the 
Sidhjolcull. 

1391. Earthquakes at Grimsnes^ Floi, and Olfus which were felt to the 
northwest as far as Holtavordhuheidbi. Fourteen farms were seriously 
damaged and three houses caved in. 

1416. Fifth eruption of the Katla, with a considerable fall of ashes. 

1422. Sixth submarine explosion southward of Reykjanes. A new 
island was formed, which later on disappeared again. 

1436. Ninth eruption of the Hecla, resulting in the destruction of 
eighteen farms during one morning. 



50i SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

1477. Eruption in an uninhabited region; in the north of the island 
a heavy fall of ashes followed by a famine. 

1510. Tenth eruption of the Hecla, on the 25th of July. Large masses 
of lava were thrown to a distance of several miles, killing several peo- 
ple. In the same year the sixth eruption of TroUadyyuija is recorded. 
These eruptions were followed by dangerous epidemics, to which many 
people fell victims. 

1546. Earthquake at Olfus^ in the commencement of June. Several 
farms were more or less injured. 

1552. Earthquake on the 2d of February. 

1554. Towards the end of May the eleventh eruption of Secla, or* 
rather of the mountain chain forming its northeastern continuance. The^ 
eruption lasted six hours, and the shocks of earthquake were so fre- 
quent that the people quitted their houses and took up their abodes iui 
tents. 

1578. On the 1st of November the twelfth eruption of Eecla, which,, 
although feeble, was accompanied by violent shocks of earthquakes, 
which destroyed sev'eral farms at Olfus. 

1580. Sixth eruption of the Katia, on the 11th of August. Destruction 
of several farm-houses, but no loss of life. The current of water, ice, 
sand, and rocks ( Jokellob) thrown out by the volcano took a southeast- 
erly course. 

1581. On the 30th of May, earthquake at BangdrvelUrj demanding 
several victims. 

1583. Seventh submarine explosion southwest of Beylcjanes. 

1584. Violent earthquake. 

1597. Thirteenth eruption of Hecla, commencing on the 3d of Janu- 
nary and lasting until March, while vapor was emitted until July.. 
Eighteen columns of fire rose above the mountain, the cinders scat 
tered over more than half the country, in the west as far as Borgarf • 
jordhr, to the east as far as Lon, and to the north as far as Bdrdharvalr,, 
and during twelve hours the detonations were audible at the extreme 
north of Iceland. The eruption was accompanied by earthquakes,, 
which destroyed several farm-houses at Olfus. A large hot spring (the 
Little Geyser) south of the farm of Reykir disappeared, but another one; 
opened on the north side. 

1598. On the 10th of November, the third eruption of OraefqjdkuW- 
and eruption at Grimsvatn (?). A northeast wind carried the ashes as 
far as the Eyjafjordhr. 

1612. Eruption of the Eyjafjallajokull on October 12. 

1613. Violent earthquakes in the south of Iceland; destruction of 
many farm-buildings. 

1C18. Earthquake at Thingeyjars'^sla, continuing from autumn until 
Christmas. One shock broke down four buildings and produced a num- 
ber of large crevices. 

1619, Fourteenth eruption of Hecla towards the epd of July. The^ 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. .505 

asbes carried northward by a southwesterly wind produced an intense 
darkness. 

1624. Earthquake at Fl6i in November ; two farm buildings were 
destroyed antl a large number damaged. 

1625. Seventh eruption of Eatla, from the 2d to the 14th of Septem- 
ber. The " Jokellob" inundated the plain of Alptaver and surrounded 
the ThyHvahaejarMaKstr and neighboring farms. The ashes were car- 
ried as far as Bergen, Norway. At Skapt^rhunga they collected knee- 
deep. Two districts were ruined. 

1630. Earthquake to the east of ThjSrsa in winter ; six lives lost. 

1632. Earthquake in the fall. 

1633. Earthquake in the south, above Olfus. 

1636. Fifteenth eruption of Hecla, lasting from the 8th of May until 
the following winter. Thirteen craters were formed. The ashes were 
carried to the southeast. 

1638. Eruption in an unknown locality in the east of Iceland. 1'he 
water-courses in that section carried to the sea large pieces of pumice- 
stone. 

1643. Earthquake near Christmas. 

1657. Earthquake, overthrowing several farm buildings atFljopehlidh. 

1658. Earthquake on Easter day. 

1660. Eighth eruption of Katla, lasting from the 3d to the 12th 
November. The powerful ''Jokellob" carried to the sea enormous 
masses of ice, rocks, and gravel to such an extent that the large sand 
plains at the foot of the Katla were completely inundated and resembled 
a stormy sea. The presbytery and the church of Hofdhabrekka were 
torn away by the waters, the farm of Hofdhi completely demolished, 
and four other farm buildings damaged to a considerable degree. Fish- 
ing gTounds of 38 meters depth were filled up by the eruption and 
formed a dry beach. 

1661. Earthquake in summer. 
1668. Violent earthquakes in winter. 

1671. Earthquakes at Grimsnes and Olfus; several buildings fell in. 

1681. Eruption of the SJceidhardrjolcull. 

1685. Eruption in the vicinity of lake Grimsvtan. 

1693. Sixteenth eruption of Hecla from four craters; very violent, 
and lasting from the 13th of February until August. It was accom- 
panied by shaking of the earth, which was even noticeable on the sea. 
The volcano emitted blocks of lava of the size of houses ; the ashes 
spread all over the island and were transported as far as Norway and 
Scotland, while the pumice-stone was carried by the streams and cur- 
rents as far as the Faroe Islands. 

1706. Very violent earthquakes in the south, on the 1st and 20th of 
April, above Olfits and at Floi, where twenty-four large farms and a 
number of smaller buildings were overthrown. The trembling, with 
diminishing force, was felt beyond the Hecla, at Snaefellsnes. 



506 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885 

1716. Erux)tion iu the vicinity of lake Grimsvatn. 

1717. Eruption of the Kvtrlcjjall ou the 17th of September. A large 
portion of the country, to the north and east, was covered with ashes, 
and the Jokuls4 i Axarfirdhi carried to the sea large quantities of 
pumice stone. 

1721. Ninth eruption of Eatla, commencing on the 11th of May with 
a great " Jokellob." The blocks of ice carried clown to the sea, and till- 
ing it to a depth of from 130 to 150 meters, formed a barrier to a dis- 
tance of three nautical miles from the shore. A turf-covered ridge of 
rock of about 24,000 square meters was cut awaj" on being struck with 
this giant force. A rocky pinnacle of 38 meters in height was also 
carried away, and the large cavern of Skipahellir comi)letely filled up 
with gravel. The wind carried the ashes to the west ; and at Saurbaer, 
.upon the Hvalfjardharstrond, 150 kilometers distant, the darkness was 
so intense as to prevent, at broad noon, the distinguishing of letters in 
a book. The sailors of Reykjanes, 188 kilometers from the Katla, were 
barely able to find the entrance of the harbor at the beginning of the 
eruption. It lasted during the summer and fall. 

1724-'30. During this period several eruptions took place in the 
vicinity of lake M^vatn. 

1724. Eruption of the Krafia, 17th of May. The crater of Viti, on the 
west slope of the mountains, emitted an enormous quantity of ashes, 
and to the east of lake My vatn it formed a bank 1 meter deep. The 
shocks were felt throughout the entire couutryj houses were over- 
thrown, and the contour of the country changed by the formation of 
elevations and depressions. 

1725. January 11, eruption of Leirhnukr, with much shaking of the 
earth, and on April 19 eruption of Bjarnarfiag. The earthquakes, 
increasing in force, attained their maximum intensity on the 8th of 
September. In the same year an eruption of Skeidhardrjokull took 
place. 

1727. Eruption of OraefajoJcull, lasting from the 3d of August, 1727, 
until the 25th of May, 1728. Powerful "Jokellob" devastated the 
entire country below the mountains, and carried out into the sea a large 
number of horses and other animals. The Skeidhardrjokull was, at the 
same time, much agitated. On the 21st of August another eruption 
took place from the Leirhmikr, throwing out a current of lava, which 
took a northerly direction. 

1718. Eruption of the Leirhmikr, at 2 a. m. of the 18th of April, with 
a flow of lava, which almost reached lake My vatn. Four hours later 
a new crater opened to the south of Leirhuukr, iu the Hrossadalr, and 
at about the same moment the Bjarnarflag erupted. Two days later a 
crater, situated on the east slope of the Dal/jail, near the Beykjahli- 
dharsel, emitted a large current of lava. Ou the 18th December another 
eruption of the Leirhmikr. In the same year several volcanic phe- 
nomena were observed in the lava beds of Recta. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 507 

1729. The LeirhniiJcr again became active on the 30th of January, 
and eruptions took place during the entire year. The lava advanced 
to the lake Myvatn and demolished the presbytery of Reykjalidh, 
together with three other buildings. One current emptied itself into 
the lake and a terrible combat took place between the elements. 

1732. Earthquakes at Rangdrvellir and at Eystrihreppr, on the 7th of 
September, by which forty farm buildings were more or less damaged 
and eleven or twelve nearly overthrown. These shocks continued dur- 
ing two weeks. 

1734. Earthquake shocks at Floi and other localities in Arnessyssel, 
by which thirty farm buildings were overthrown, sixty to seventy 
damaged, and seven or eight people killed. 

1749. Earthquakes at Olfus and Borgarfjordhr; the flow of the hot 
spring of Skrifla diminished and the farm-house of Hjalli, at Olfus, to- 
gether with the church, sank 1.25 meters below the surface. 

1752. Earthquake in Arnessyssel; 12 farms in Olfus damaged, and 
one church overthrown. 

1753. Eruption in the vicinity of Sedhujokfll. A "Jokellob" pro- 
duced in the river Djupd, which flows in a gorge towards the presby- 
tery of Kdlfafell, a rise of 60 meters; an inundation followed which 
devastated the entire surrounding country. The waters of the Skaptd 
and of the Hverfisfljot rose proportionate]}". The ashes were carried 
beyond Skaptdrtunga. 

1754. Volcanic phenomena of three hours' duration in the lava beds 
west of the Hecla. 

1755. Sixteenth eruption of Katla, preceded in the north by violent 
shocks of earthquake, overthrowing 13 farm-houses situated mostly 
in the neighborhood of Hiisavik, and lasting from the 10th to the 16th 
September. The eruption commenced on the 17th October and lasted 
until August, 1756. The "Jokellob" and the ashes, which were carried 
as far as Leird, in the Borgarfjordhr, to the west, and to Djupivogr to 
the east, occasioned great damages. A large part of Skajitafellssyssel 
was covered with a layer of ashes 15 to 20 centimeters in thickness, 
and fifty farms had to be abandoned. In consequence of this eruption 
two ridges were formed on the Myralssandr, 23,000 meters loug, 40 
meters high, and composed of ice, pumice stone, mud, and ashes. 

1766. Seventeenth eruption of Hecla, commencing on the 5th of 
April, as ordinarily with heavy earthquake shocks, perceptible south- 
westward as far as Reykjanes. The ashes drifted northwest and 
caused darkness in the north of Iceland ; the layer of ashes formed was 
60 centimeters thick in the vicinity of the volcano, and 30 centimeters 
at 225 kilometers distant, but fortunately it fell mostly in uninhabited 
districts. Pieces of pumice stone of 2 meters circumference were 
thrown a distance of 15 kilometers, a piece of lava of 1,750 grains a 
distance of 23 kilometers, and another piece of 3,750 grains weighty 



508 ■ SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. . 

struck the frozen ground at Naefrholt with such force that it could only 
be removed with the aid of a lever. Masses of ])umice stone caused 
the Ytri-Rangd to overflow its banks, and the Thjorsa and other rivers 
carried enormous quantities of it out into the sea. A current of Liva, 
7,500 meters long, spread out towards south-southwest. On the 21st 
of April the ashes measured 5,000 meters in height and 'still rising. 
This eruption did not end until the next autumn. 

1774. Eruption in an unknown section in the vicinity of the SJcei- 
dhardrjoliuU. 

1783. Eighth submarine explosion southwest of BeyJcjanes in May. 
An island formed with a crater which emitted such quantities of pum- 
ice stone that the sea was covered with it to a distance of 150 to 225 
kilometers. This island, which received the name Nyo (new), soon 
again disappeared. 

In the same year, grand eruptions took place in the vicinity of the 
source of the river Shoptd. On the first of June a trembling of the eart h 
was noticed throughout Skaptafellssyssel which lasted until 8 a. m. 
At 9 A. M. a violent eruption was noticed at Sidha in a direction north. 
At the same time the Skapta, then 130 meters wide, commenced to 
diminish rapidly, and on the 11th June it had dried up entirely. Un 
the 12th a current of lava precipitated itself like a roaring sea into the 
bed of the river, 160 to 190 meters deep, and after filling it up com 
pletely, overran its banks, spread in various places and encircled 
several farms, but was suddenly arrested by a deep pit existing in the 
bed of the Skapt4 between the farms of Skaptardalr and the A, and 
which it would have to fill and bridge over before being able to pursue 
its course. The emissions of lava continued without interruption, and 
in the direction of tJlfarsdalr and Varmardalr twenty-two columns of 
fire and ashes could be counted. From the 14th to the 22d June the 
lava currents overflowed each other in the plains south of the Skapta, 
destroying several farms and fusing the old lava, at the same time 
obstructing or dislocating several water courses. Pumice stones ami 
dross were thrown a distance of 113 kilometers westerly to Kangar- 
vallasyssel. On the 30th of June a current of lava turned west, towards 
the Kudhajljdt, one of the largest rivers of Iceland, which arrested it 
in its course, the current of lava being unable to surmount this j)0wer- 
ful barrier. The east branch of this current emptied itself into the 
Skaptd, bridged over on the 17th of July a deep pit below the cascade 
of Stapafoss, and stopped on the 20th of July at 1,900 meters from 
Kirkjubaejarklaustr, where it filled a channel of 130 meters in width 
and 40 meters in depth. The volcanoes continued their eruptions with 
diminishing force during the months of July, August, and September, 
and even in the middle of January of the next year one could still 
observe from Skaptdrtunga feeble eruptions behind the mountains. On 
the 29th of July, 1783, new eruptions were again observed farther to 



VULOANtSM, fiTC, IN tCELANb. 50f) 

the east, in the district of Fljotshverfi; this region became covered 
with ashes, aud the waters of the Ilverfisfljot, after reaching the boil- 
ing point, evaporated completely under the action of a current of lava 
which filled the bed of the river and expanded towards the south, thereby 
destroying several farms. These eruptions continued until the month of 
January, 1784. At the same time the volcano in the vicinity of SJceidh- 
ardjoTxull evinced signs of activity, and an eruption took place on the 
8th of April, 1784, giving birth to a terrible "Jiikellob." 

These violent eruptions tended to largely change the configuration 
of the surrounding country. Several water-courses disappeared, others 
had their course obstructed, and now formed in the lava bed innumera- 
ble small lakes, which in the mean time also disappeared, the Skapt4 
and the Hverfisfljot digging out new beds. And on the other hand no 
eruptions had ever had such disastrous consequences for Iceland. The 
lava consumed entirely 9 farms, ruined about 29 others, and rendered 
two parishes uninhabitable for two years. The ashes extended in large 
masses over the greater portion of Iceland and were carried to the 
Faroe Islands and beyond. The prairies were devastated, and a large 
number of animals died of hunger and disease. The year following was 
still more sorrowful, the inhabitants dying by the hundreds of hunger. 
It has been estimated that of the 48,884 individuals composing the 
inhabitants of Iceland, 9,238 died in consequence of these eruptions. 
Of animals, the loss by death during the years 1783-84 was: 11,461 
head of cattle, 190,448 sheep, and 28,013 horses. Iceland was unable 
to recover from these terrible misfortunes until the middle of the pres- 
ent century. 

1784. From the 4th to the 16th of August violent earthquake shocks 
in Arnessyssel and Rangdrvallasyssel. In the former 69 farms were com- 
pletely destroyed, and 372 more and 11 churches badly damaged. In 
the latter 94 farm-buildings were shaken down. In some localities hot 
springs disappeared aud reappeared, and near the geyser 35 new springs 
formed. 

1789. Violent earthquake at Arnessyssel. The lava beds of Thing 
vellir underwent some changes, and the entire section of land between 
the crevice of Almannagjd and Hrafnagj4 settled 60 centimeters. Hot 
springs sprouted up on the Hellisheidhi and in other lociilities (for in- 
stance at Eeykir). Several farms in the southeast of Iceland tumbled 
down. 

1808. Earthquakes in various places of Iceland, accompanied by a 
change of the hot springs. 

1810. Earthquake to the west of Hecla October 24. 

1815. Earthquake shocks in the north part of the island during the 
month of June. 

1818. Feeble earthquake shocks in the southern part of the island. 

1821. Second eruption of the Eyfafjallajolcull^ commencing on the 19th 



510 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

December and continuing, though feebly, until the 1st of January, 1823. 
It produced a " Jokellob," which, taking a westerly course, occasioned 
considerable damages. 

1823. The eleventh eruption of Katla lasted from the 26th of June to 
the 23d of July, but was not as violent as the previous ones of the same 
volcano. A "Jokellob" carried to the east a large quantity of sand 
and gravel. In the beginning of February of the same year some vol- 
canic phenomena were observed in the vicinity of the sources of the 
Skapt4, possibly within the volcano of 1783. 

1826. Earthquake shocks in the north of Iceland during the month 
of June. 

1829. Earthquake shocks in the south of Iceland on the 21st and 22d 
of February; nine farms were destroyed. 

1830. Ninth submarine explosion southwest of Beykjanes, at 4 kilom- 
eters southwest of Eldeyjarbodi and at 60 kilometers southwest of the 
point of Eeykjanes. The explosions continued from the 13th of March 
until the month of May. 

1838. Earthquake in the north and south of Iceland, in the north be- 
tween Skjalfandi and Hunafloi, with change of location of hot springs. 

1839. Earthquake at Reyhjavilc, on the 28th of July. 

1845. Eighteenth eruption of Hecla, which, commencing on the 2d of 
September, lasted for seven months. A large quantity of ashes spread 
over the surrounding country, and a portion was carried by the wind 
as far as the Shetland islands. The column of ashes, on the 5th of 
February, 1846, rose, according to Ounnlaugsson, 4,370 meters above 
the summit of Hecla. The current of lava emitted had a length of 
11,300 meters, a width of 2,800 meters, and was from 15 to 35 meters 
thick. J. G. Schythe estimates its bulk as 446,000,000 of cubic meters. 

1855. Feeble earthquake shocks in the north of Iceland. 

1860. Twelfth eruption of Katla. On the 8th of May, between 6 and 
8 A. M., an earthquake occurred, followed by a "Jokellob," descending 
from the Katla towards the southeast. On the 11th another "Jokellob" 
from the Solheimasaniir towards the southwest. The eruption ceased 
on the 27th of May. Tke " Jokellob" carried such large masses of sand 
and gravel that a former fishing ground of 30 meters' depth was com- 
pletely filled up after the eruption. The ashes were transported towards 
the north into uninhabited regions and did but little damage. On Sep- 
tember 20, at 7 P. M., an earthquake in the south, moving southwest to 
northeast. In the night from the 30th to the 31st December one noticed 
at Reykjavik a movement in the same direction. 

1862. Eruptions in the uninhabited regions north of the VatnajoJcullj 
but its exact location not known. 

1863. Earthquake at Beykjavilc, in the night of the 20th to the 2l8t 
of April. 

1864. Earthquake at EeyJcjaviTc, on the 16th of February. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. f)!! 

18G7. Eruptions in the inhabited regions north of the VatnajoTcull, 
from the 29th of August to the 5th September. Fall of ashes south of 
the Vatnajokull, at Oraefi, and at Sudhrsveit. At the same time 
" Jokellob" at Skeidhardrjohull. 

1868. Towards ISTew Year some volcanic phenomena at Mandrqjjar, 
in the north of Iceland, were observed at sea in the neigliborhood of 
Tjorues; and at the same time an earthquake took place at Husavik. 
In January, feeble shocks in the north ; on the 1st to the 3d November 
earthquake shocks in the south. 

1872. Severe earthquake iu the north, at Husavik^ on the 17th of 
April. Several buildings were overthrown and others damaged. The 
shocks were not discontinued until the end of May. In December of 
the same year some feeble shocks were observed in the north. 

1873. Eruption of the Kverkfjall{f) Januarys to 13. Considerable 
fall of ashes in the south and east of the island. 

1875. Alternate eruptions of the Byngjufjall and the Sveinagjd. To- 
wards the end of 1874 some earthquakes were noticed in the northeast 
of the island, and on the 3d of January a column of smoke was observed 
to rise above the DyngjvfjaU, but this eruption did not cause any 
damage. According to the researches of F. Jonstrup it issued from 
craters situated in the southwest corner of the Aslja, 94 meters below 
the lava field of Askja, and 138 meters above the lake. These craters 
emitted an enormous quantity of vapor even during the summer of 
1876. During the first eruption large blocks of tuft and basalt, some 
of a bulk of 31 cubic meters, were thrown to a height of 30 meters, 
and one of them emitted blocks of gravel, cemented with ice, of a bulk 
of 6 cubic meters. 

On the 18th of February occurred an eruption of the Sveinagjd, in 
the M^'vatnsoraefi (desert of Myvatu), and the formation of several 
craters ; on March 10, an eruption of 14 to 16 new craters, emitting 
torrents of lava; and on the 29th of the same mouth a violent eruption 
of the Dyngjnfjall. The entire eastern portion of Iceland became 
covered with ashes and pumice stone, the bulk of the latter having 
been estimated at 400 millions of cubic meters. Portions of the ashes 
were transported to Norway, and even at Stockholm and its vicinity 
a shower of the ashes fell on the evening of the 29th of March. This 
eruption issued from the most southerly crater of the valley of Askja, 
to the northeast of the pit mentioned before. The ground all around 
was, in 1876, covered with pumice stones, the larger portion of them 
having a diameter of 15 to 20 centimeters, and many of 50 to 100 cubic 
decimeters in bulk. At one place where they were of a thickness of 
60 to 100 centimeters they had entirely hidden a bed of snow of 8 
meters' thickness, formed during the winter of 1874-'75. On the 4th 
of April several eruptions were observed on the My vatnsoraefi, and on 
the 15th of August the last one occurred, none of them causing much 



612 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

damage. The lava produced was basaltic and vefy uneven. Some 
craters emitted bombs with a close surface and a cellular mold. In 
July, 1876, a temperature of from 130° to 200°, and even 300° C, was 
observed in the cracks of the lava. In the grass-covered si)ots which 
the lava overflowed, crystals of chlorhydrate of ammonia have separ- 
ated. The eruption of Dyngjufjall, of the 29th of March, had some 
very severe consequences for the fertile regions of the east of Iceland. 
Hundreds of farms had to be abandoned, but one also rapidly re- 
covered from the evil effects by removing the light layers of ashes and 
X)umice stone, and the damage will not be as serious as was feared. 
This eruption, from the fact that its products were purely trachytic, 
stands isolated and unique in Iceland in modern times. 

1879. On the 27th of February an eruption in one of the chains run- 
ning northeast from the Hecla. It lasted to the month of May, with- 
out doing much harm, the lava not reaching the inhabited regions. 

1879. Tenth submarine explosion southwest of Eeykjanes, on the 30th 
and 31st of May. 

The following eruptions mentioned in several old lists are charged to 
the wrong volcanoes: Hecla, 1004, 1029, 1113, 1374, 1583, 1625, 1727. 
KatJa, 1717, 1727. Trdlladyngja, 1475. Herdhubreidh, 1341, 1510. 
8idhvjd]cuU, 1728. OraefajdJmll, 1332, 1336, 1720. BreidJiamerkrjdkull, 
1362. HofsJUkull et Baldjokull, 1710. Everfjall {or Sandfell), 1748, 1752. 
BaudJmkamhar, 1311. ThSrsmork, 1310, 1350. 3Iosfell, 1340. Breidhi- 
fjordr {near Snaefellsnes), 1219, 1345. Thingvallahraun, 1587. As to 
Helgafell, on the island of Westraanna, no positive data exist regard- 
ing eruptions within historic times. 

Within historic times eruptions have taken place at about 20 differ- 
ent places in Iceland. Generally speaking the volcanoes are small and 
only one eruption is on record. Among the large volcanoes, Hecla oc- 
cupies the first place with 21 eruptions; next comes the Katla with 
12 or 13, then the Eldej-jar, near Reykjanes, with 10, the TroUad.f ngja 
with 6 eruptions. The largest current of lava was produced in 1783. 
The ice-covered volcanoes in the south of Iceland never emit currents 
of lava, but only ashes; they are above all to be dreaded on account of 
the " Jokellob" which they produce when the eruption breaks up the 
covering of ice. The largest number of eruptions have taken place in 
the fourteenth century (13), and in the eighteenth century (14). In 
studying the list of eruptions it will be observed that in each period 
they are concentrated in one certain section and that, in their succes- 
sion, they rarely made large jumps. The earthquakes are in direct 
connection with the eruptions, they occurring nearly all in Olfus, 
Grimsnes, Floi, and at Fj61shlidh, in the vicinity of the Hecla, or at 
Thingeyjarsysla, the hearth of the volcanoes of the north. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 



513 



All the eruptions mentioned in the annals, and regarding which reli- 
able dates exist, are given in the following list: 

Volcanic eruptions in Iceland within historic times. 





3 




1 

u 


Si 

H 




i 
1 

1 


:0 


^ 
^ 

a 


1 




a 


'S 


1 


Paa akjendte Ste- 
der i Naerh. af 
Vatnajokoll. 


> 


•a 

n 


■58 

t/2 


e3 


.a 

•a 
a 
.a 


i 

w 


g 

es 




950 


1211 
1226 
1231 
1238 
1240 
1422 
1583 
1783 
1830 
1879 


1151 
1188 
1340 
1360 
1389 


1000 


1114 
1157 
1206 
1222 
1294 
1300 
1341 
1389 
1436 
1510 
1554 
1578 
1597 
1619 
1636 
1693 
1728 
1754 
1766 
1845 
1878 


1343 


1612 
1821 


900 
1245 
1262 
1311 
1416 
1580 
1625 
1660 
1721 
1755 
1823 
1860 


1783 
1823 


1389 
1753 


1598 
1685 
1716 


1681 
1725 


1S41 
1349 


1225 1717 

1.^^2 1 Sfi7 


1875 


1875 


1724 


1725 
1727 
1728 
1729 


1728 




1725 
1728 


1728 




1727 1598' 134111873 












.... 








1774 1727 
1784 


1477 
1510 
1638 
1862 
















.... 

































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































BIBLIOGEAPHY OF THE VOLCANOES, EARTHQUAKES, AND GEYSERS OF 

ICELAND. 

Compiled by George H. Boehmer. 

Mr. Thoroddsen, in his paper ou "de islandske Vulkaners Historie," furnishes quite 
an extensive bibliographical list of volca*noe8 and earthquakes of Iceland ; a similar 
list, on the geysers of Iceland, is given by Dr. A. C. Peale in his report on the Yellow- 
stone National Park (in Part i. of Dr. Hayden's XII Annual Report — for 1878 — of 
the U. S. Geological and Geographical Surveys of the Territories. ) To these lists have 
been added such titles of works on these subjects, as well as on geographical and 
physical descriptions of Iceland, and such accounts of travels, as could be procured 
from the following-named publications : 

Skyrslur og Reikningar bins Islenzka Bdkmentaffelags, 1854-1884. 

Literatur iiber die Polar Regionen der Erde, von Dr. Josef Chavanne, Dr. Alvis 
Karpf, und Franz, Ritter von Le Monnier, published by the I. R. Geographical Society 
of Vienna, Austria. 

Catalogue of the United States Library of Congress. 

Catalogue of the Public Library, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Catalogue of the Peabody Institute, Baltimore, Md. 

Catalogue of the Library of the College of New Jersey. 

Catalogue of the Free Public Library, Worcester, Mass. 

Catalogue of the Fall River Public Library. 

Catalogue of the Saint Louis Mercantile Library. 

Catalogue of the United States Interior Department Library. 

"Atlantic Monthly." 

"Popular Science Monthly," 1872-1882. 

" Princeton Review," 1852-1868. 

"Nature," London, England. 

"North American Review," 1878-1880. 
H. Mis. 15 33 



514 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

"Scribner's Monthly," vol. 1-20. 

" Harper's Monthly Magazine," vols. 1-60. 

Valuable information has been received from Dr. Stejneger of the U. S. National 
Museum, from Dr. Hans H. Reusch, of Christiania, Norway, and from Mr. A. Thorstein- 
son, of Reykjavik, Iceland. Thanks are due Mr. Solberg of the U. S. Library of Con- 
gress for valuable advice and corrections. 

The material thus collected has been alphabetically arranged under the four fol- 
lowing heads: 

1. Manuscripts. 3. Articles from journals, transactions, &c. 

2. Printed books. 4. Maps and charts. 

1. Manuscripts. 

Alpium Myrdalinarum Vesuvius, quae ab incolis vocatur Kotlugjfi ; i det store Kgl. 

Bibl. Thotts Samling, No. 957. fol. Ogsaa i Collect. Finn. Magn. in Mus. Britann., 

No. 159, med. Tilfoielser af J6n Jakobsson og Jdn Espdlin. 
AUSTMANN ( J6n). Kotluhlaup 1823. Indberetning til Biskop Steingrfmur Jdnssoii ; 

1 J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to. 
Baejarstadhakver, i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 8vo. Heri findes, J6n Steingrims- 

soDS Skrifter om Katlas Udbrud og om Udbruddet 1783. Isl. 
Beskrivelse over Hekkenfjeld paa Island, som er samlet mesteudels efter Ditmer Blef- 

kenius, tilligenied Relation om Eruptioner af Bjergene Krafla og Kotlugja, i det 

store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Samling, No. 1673. 4to. 
Brynjolfi Sueuonii historica de rebus islandicis relatio ab Ottonem Kragium 1645 ; i 

det store Kgl. Bibl. Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2856. 4to. Omtaler Katlas, Udbrud 

1625. S. 22-23. 
EiNARUS (Olaus). Epistola ad Theodorum Bjornonis; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. 

Saml. No. 271. 8vo. 
Erlendssox (Oddr) d tbufu. Dagskrii um Heklngosidh 1845-46, og afteidhingur 

thess ; i J6u Sigurdhssons Samling. 8vo. Heraf findes oversatte Uddrag i det 

store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml. 1671. b. 4to. 
Extract udaf Sysselmand J6n Bendixens Relation, dat. Rodeskride, d. 16 April 17.55 ; 

i det store Kgl. Bibl. Thotts Saml., No. 1740. 4to. (Om Jordskja^loene ved Hti- 

savlk 1755.) 
De physicis Islaudiae revolutionibus. Collect. Finn. Magn. i Bibl. Bodlei. Oxford, 

No. 129. 4to. 
Eggers (C. U.D.). Fortsoettelse af "Physikalische uud statistische Beschreibnug von 

Island, aus authentischen Quellen und nach den neueten Nachrichten." Kopen- 

hagen, 1786. 8vo. (Kun. 1. Theil., 1. Abth. er udkommen.) I Reykjavik laesde 

Skolen,s Bibliothek. 
Eyj6lfsson (Oddr). Descriptio conflagrationis montis HeclsB anno 1693 ; i det store 

Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml. No. 1674. 4to. 
FiNNSSON (Hannes). Fortssettelse af bans Eflferretniuger om Tildragelserne vedBjer- 

get Hekla 1766; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2861, og i Ny Kgl. 

Saml. 1671. 4to. 
GUDHMUNDSSON ( J6n). Sannferdhug undhirretling um Kotlugj^rhlaup og thess ver- 

kauir 1755. Dat 19. Febr. 1756; i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to. 
HXkonarsoxar (Magnusar) b6k, i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 76 Sider. 4to. Heri : 

J6n Steingrirassous Skrift om Katla, J6n Sigurdhssons Beretuing om Katlas Ud- 
brud 1755 ; Sveinn Frisson : Om Katla Udbrud 1823, og Magnfis H^konarson om 

Katlas Udbrud 1860. Isl. 
HiiLFDANSSON (Einak). Af joclinom, er Orsefin liopo 1727. En Afskrift og Omarbei- 

delse af Hillfdanssons Original ved J6n Olafsson fra Grunnavfk ; i J6n Sigurdhssons 

Samling. 4to. I dansk Overssettolse ved J6n Marteinsson i det store Kgl. Bibl. 

Thotts Samling, No. 1790. 4to. 
Haxld6rsson (Dadhi) i SXEiNSHOLxf. Um Heklugos 1693, i J6n Sigurdhssons Manu- 

fikriptsaml. 4to. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 515 

Hajxd6rsson (Svfinn). Um bsei, sem ekadhast hafa af jardhekj^lftnm 14 og 16 

August 1T84 ; i Islands Stiftsbibliotheks Haandskriftsamling, No. 20. fol. 
HALLGRfjissoN (J6nas). Eldgos ^ Island! ; i det islandske literjere Selskab Arkiv i 
Kbhavn., No. 11. fol. Dette Manuskript et Udkastet til samme Forfatters "De 
islandske Vulkaner," der findes i Prof. Japetus Steenstrups Eie, og hvor af der 
igjen fiudes Afskrift i J6n Sigurdbssons Samling. 

Hildharbdk, i J6u Sigurdbssons Samliug. 4to. Heri : (1) J6n SteingrimssonsSkrift om 
Katla; (2) den Sammes Af handling om Udbruddet 178:5; (3) De storste Udbrud 
paa Island ; (4) Svein P^lsson om Heklas Udbrud ; (.5) Liste over Islandske Vulkan- 
udbrud af Halld6r Jakobsson. Isl. 

Holm (Saemundr). Tegning og Beskrivelse over nogle ildsprudende Bjerge paa 
Island ; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml., No. 1094. fol. 

Horgsdalskver, i J6n Sigurdbssons Samling. Bvo. 292 pp. Heri: J6n Steingrlmssons 
Af bandling om Udbruddet 1783, Liste over islandske Udbrud af Halld6r Jakobs- 
son, Heklas Udbrud af Sveinn P^lsson, og J6n Steingrimssons Skrift om Katlas 
Udbrud. Isl. 

Islands maerkvaerdigste Kilder i Jdn Sigurdbssons Manuskriptsamling.- 4to. 

Jakobsson (J6n). Cbronologia Heclae. Collet. Finn. Magn. in Mus. Britann. No. 
216. 

J6nsson (Einar) fr^ Asi. En kort Eelatio historico-pbysica om den forfsederlige 
lid- og Klippe-Spruden, som Hecle-Bjerget. begyndte sidstl. 5. April, dat ^si, 16 
Sept. 1766. Autogr. i J6n Sigurdbssons Samling. 4to. 

Kort Efterretning om Udsprudninger i Island i Aarene 1821-'22-'23 ; i det store Kgl. 
Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml., No. 1671. 4to. 

Lysingar £ eldgosum & Islandi (skrevet circa 1844) ; i det isl. lit. Selskabs Arkiv 1 
Kbbavn., No. 47. 8vo. 

Magnusar Hiikonarsonar bdk, i Jdn Sigurdbssons Samling. 76 Sider. 4to. Heri: 
Jdn Steingrimssons Skrift om Katla, Jdn Sigurdbssons Beretning om Katlaa 
Udbrud 1755; Svein P^lsson ; Om Katlas Udbrud 1823, og Magnus Hakonarson 
om Katlas Udbrud 1860. Isl. 

MAGNtJSSON (Thorstkinn). Um Kotlublaup 1625, i Jdn Sigurdbssons Manuskript- 
samling. 8vo. Ogsaa i Utgardha-Loki sammesteds. S. 23-35. Udforligere end 
den trykte Relation. 

Neue Zeitung von Sens, was sicb in Island zugetragen babe 1.580 und 1581 ; i det store 
Kgl. Bibl. Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2432. 4to, 

Nogle Breve og Beretninger om Eruptionerne paa Island i Aarene 1766 og 1767; i det 
store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml. 1671. 4to. 

Oddsson (GfSLi). De mirabilibus Islandise s. bistoriae naturalis Islandiae tentamen, 
scriptum 1638. Collect. Finn. Magn. in Bibl. Bodlei. Oxford. No. 84. 4to. 

OfiQcielle ludberetninger om Udbruddet af Eyjafjallajokull 1821-'22; i Jdn Sigurdbs- 
sons Samling. fol. 

Officielle Indberetninger til Rentekammeret om Udbrud ved Skaptiir jokull 1823, af 
Sveinn Palsson, Pfill P^lsson og v. Moltke, i Jdn Sigurdbssons Samling. fol. 

Om den Skade, Hekkenfjeld paa Island gjorde 1693, fordansket af Cbr. Taebring; i 
det store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml., No. 209. 8vo. 

PirssON (Sveinn). Forsog til en pbysik, geographisk og bistorisk Beskrivelse af de 
islandske Isbjaerge. I det store Kgl. Bibliothek i Kjobenhavn, Ny Kgl. Saml., 
No. 1094. b-c. fol. Heraf findes en Afskrift i Jdn Sigurdbssons Manuskript- 
samling. 

Zillaeg til Beskrivelserne over den Vulkan, det braendte i Skaptafellssyssel Aar 

1783. Samlet ved en Reise i Egnen i Aarene 1793-94. Med et Kort. I det isl. 
lit. Selsk. Arkiv i Kbbavn., No. 23. fol. 

Kotlugjirgos 1823, saerskilt i Jdn Sigurdbssons Samling. 4to. Heraf findes 

flere Afskrifter f. Ex, i tJtgardba-Loki, S. 60-94, og i Magnfisar H(ikonarsonar 
bdk. S. 39-70. 



516 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Quaestionesphysicaedelslandia, nonnulas circa eas observationes iusuper continentes. 

In margine responsa qiiaedam et aunotationes contineutur. Sunt, ut videtur, 

circa annum 1750 conscriptae, auctorum anouymorum et jam ignotorum. Collect. 

Finu. Magn. in Mus. Britann. No. 158. 4to. 
Resen (F. ). Descriptio Islandiae. Paa det store Kgl. Bibl., fol. , fire Afskrifter i Ny Kgl. 

Saml. No. 1087, 1088 og 1089, fol., ogThottsSaml. No. 952. fol. 
Relation fra Island Anno 1756, skreven af Pastor Gisli Bjarnarson til Melar til Hr. J6u 

Therkelsen ; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Kails Saml. No. 270. fol. 
Relation fra Island 1768 ; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml. No. 1672. 4to. 
Saemundsson (J6n). Descriptio edhr rfettara appendix yfir My vatns sveitar jardh- 

brune; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2860. 4to. 
Sal6monssox (J6n). Hlaupldh lir Myrdalsjokli 1660 ; i det isl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv i 

Kbhvn. 8vo. No. 37. S. 296-303 ; ligeledes i tJtgardha-Loki, S. 35-42, hvori der 

ogsaa Andes en Beretning om det samme Udbrud af Syeselmand Sigurdbr Ste- 

pb^nsson, S. 40-43, 46. 
Selsundsb6k. Udrit um jardbelda og jokulblaup i Vestr-Skaptafellssyslu, skrd.sett 

af J6n i Steingrimssyni, i J6n Sigurdbssons Samling, 4to. 
SiGHVATSSON (EiRfKR). Dagb6k um Kotlngos 1823; den skal findes, men jeg bar 

aldrig set den. 
SiGURDHSSON (J6n). Kotlublaup 1755; dat. den 19 Dec. 1755 med Tilfoielser af Praes- 

ten J6n Steingrimsson, dat. 5 Januar 1756 ; i det isl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv i Kbbvn. No. 

47. 8vo. S. 137-150. Heraf findes 11 ere Afskrifter. En dansk Oversaettelse findes 

i det store Kgl. Bibl. Kails Samling. No. 270. fol. 

Brevom Udbruddet 1783; dat. 5 Dec. 1783. I J6n Sigurdbssons Samling. 4to. 

Steingrimsson (J6n) og Sigurdhsson (J6n). Um Skapt^reldinn 1783 ; i det isl. lit. 

Selsk. Arkiv i Kbbvn. No. 149. 4to (et Brudstykke). Af J6n Steingrimssons 

Skrift findes mange fuldstsendige Afskrifter og Omarbeidelser. 
Brev til Prsesten Bjarni Jdnsson, dat. 21. Aug. 1783 ; i J6n Sigurdbssons Samling. 

4to. 
Angrvaka, kvaedbi um eldinn 1783-84 ; i det isl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv i Kbhvn. No. 



136. 8vo. 

Eiufold fr^saga um jardbeldsblaupidb i Skaptafellssyslu iiridb 1783; dat. 24. 

August 17b3 ; i J6n Sigurdbssons Samling. 4to. 

Succinta relatio de montein Islandia australi (1727) ignivomo Oraefajokull dicto, auc- 
tore Einare Halfdanis filio, pastore in Prestbakka et districtu Sidba. Islandice 
et Latine. Secundam auctoris autograpbum, manu Jonse Martini. Collect, mss. 
Finn. Magn. in Mus. Britann. No. 342. 

TH6RDnARSON (ThorlIkr). De incendio Heclae 1693 ; i det isl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv i Rey- 
kjavik. 4to. II B. No. 104. 

Thorleifsson (Th6rdhr) og GuNNARSSON (Erlendr). Um hlaupidb firMyrdalskjo- 
klil721; i det isl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv i Kbbvn. No. 37. 8vo. S. 304-308. Ogsaa i 
tJtgardba-Loki, S. 43-46. o. fl.st. 

Thorsteinsson (Benedict). Brev til Admiral Raben, Stiftsbefalings-mand over 
Island, om Udbruddene ved Myvain 1724 og af Katla 1721 ; i J6n Sigurdbssons 
Saml. 4to. 

Thorvardhsson (Arni) Prajst til Thingvellir. De montis Heclae incendio, quod 
praesenti anno 1693 extortum est, et in bunc usque diem continuatum, brevissima 
eaque verissima relatio. Dat. Thingvellir, 29 Juli 1693. Originalen i det Deich- 
manske Bibliotbeks Haandskrif tsamling i Christiania, No. 103. 4to. En Afskrifb 
ved Sigwart Petersen i J6n Sigurdbssons Samling. 4to. 

Um Heklugosidb 3 Januar 1597. Efter ed Brev fra Biskop Oddr Einarsson til Praesten 
Bodbvar Jdnsson, i det isl. Selsk. Arkiv i Kbbvn. No. 37. 8vo. pp. 294-296. 

tJtgardba-Loki i Islandi edbr safn af fslenzkum jardholdaritum samantynt af Einari 
Eirikssyui, 1823. 200 Sider. 4to. I J6n Sigurdbssons Samling. Heri bl. a J6n 
Steingrimssons Skrift om Katla, Sveinn Piilsson : Om Hekla [1712] og om Katlas 
Udbrud 1823, og Isleifr Einarsson og J6n Helgason [1793]; Om ode Gaarde i 
Os terskap taf ellssy sse 1 . 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 517 

2. Books. 

Allan (Robert). On the condition of the Haukadalr Geysers of Iceland, Jnly, 1855. 
Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Sciences, 1855. Lon- 
don, 1856. pp. 75-78. 

Annular BjOrns ^ Skardhsfi, sive Annales Bjornonis de Skardsa, i-ll. Hrappsey, 
1775. 4to. 

Analyse des Wassers des grossen Geysers aiif Island. Zeitschrift der Gesell- 
schaft fiir Erdkunde, Berlin, Neue Folge, I, 1856, pp. 457-459. 

M. F. W. Analyse de la r61ation d'un voyage fait en Islande, dans V6t6 de I'an 1810, 
par M. Mackenzie. Annales des Voyages, Paris. Malte-Bruu. xviii, 1812, pp. 
273-314. 

Anderson (Johan). Beschryving van Ysland, Groenland en de Straat Davis. Tot 
nut der wetenschappen en den koophandel. Vertrykt med Platen en een nieuwe 
naauwkeurige Landkaart der Ontdekkingen, waarvan in det werk gesproken 
ward. Uit het hoogduitsch vertaalt door J. D. J. 28G pp. Te Amsterdam, Steven 
van Esveldt, 1750. Mit der kaart van Groenland, Ysland en de Straat Davis; 
Amsterdam, 1756. 2 vols. 4to. 

Efterretninger om Island, Gronland og Straat-Davis, med en telgift eom 

ridere efterretning om Island. Cum tabb. aeneis; Kjobenhavn, 1748. 8vo. 

Histoire naturelle du Groenland, du ddtroit de Davis et d'autres pays sifcu^s 

au Nord. Trad, de I'allemand par Godefroi Sellins, Paris, 1720-30 ; 1743 ; Ham- 
burg, 1746 ; Paris, Seb. Cramoisy, 1750, 2 vols. ; Amsterdam, 1751 ; Paris, Michael 
Lambet, 1753, 2 vols. ; Paris, Jorry, 1754, 2 vols. 12mo. 

Naturhistorische Nachrichten von Island, Gronland und der Strasse Davis, zum 

Nutzen der Wissenschaften und der Handlung. Mit 4 Kupferu und eiuer Land- 
karte. Nebst einem Vorbericht von den Lebensumstandeu des Vcrfassers. Ham- 
burg, G. Chr. Grund, 1746, 8vo ; Frankfurt a. M. und Leipzig, 1747, 8vo ; Hafnise, 
1748, 8vo. 

The natural history of Iceland. Containing a particular and accurate account 



of the different soils, burning mountains, minerals, vegetables, metals, stones, 

beasts, birds, and fishes, interspersed with an account of the island. Translated 

from the Danish original of N. Horrebow. With one map in folio. London, 

Linde, 1758. 
[Anon.] Yacht Voyage to Iceland. London, 1854. 12mo. 
d'Anville (Jean Baptiste Bourguignon). M^moire sur la navigation de Pytheas 

k Thule, et observations g6ographiques sur I'Islande. M6moires de I'Acad^mie 

des Inscriptions, xxxvii, p. 436. 
Ardt ( Johann). Wtlagdur a Islandsku af Siva Thorlife Arnasyne. 4 bok. Kaup- 

mannahofn, 1731. 8vo. 
ARNGRfMSSON (B.). Um Gardyrkjunamaudsyn Og nytscmi fyrir Island. Kaupman- 

nahofn, 1820. 
Arni (Thorsteinsson). Hr. Ananiassens Rejsoberetningor pS, Island. Arthur Fed- 

dersen's Fiskerietidende for 1884, No. .52, 53. 
Arpi (Rolf). Ritd6mur um: 1. Kiilund. Bidrag til en hist. — top. beskriv. af Isl. 

2. Gudhrus. Alpingisstadhur. Nord. Tidskr. for Vetenskap och Konst, 1881, pp. 

360-371. 
Ritddmur um Schweitzers "Island, Land und Leute. Berlin und Leipzig, 

1885." Nordisk Revy, n, 1884, No. 14, pp. 441-444. 

Svar pa Dr, Ph. Schweitzer's Genmiile. Nordisk Revy, li, No. 15, 1884-'85, pp. 



473-475. 

Ausbruch des Hekla. Ausland, xviii, 1845, p. 1276. 

Avertissement om Anderson's tractat om Island. Kjobenhavn, 1748. 8vo. 
Balda-Yokel in Island. Pfennig-Magazin, Leipzig, vu, 1839, p. 133. 
Baring Gould (S.). See Gould (Sabine Baring). 
Barrett (W. F.). Geysers. Brown (R.), Science for All. Series I. 



518 SCIENTIFIC RECQRD FOR 1885. 

Barrow (John, jr. ). Ein Besuch auf der Insel Island iiber Tronyem, im Sommer 1834. 

Stuttf^art und Tiibingen, 1836. 8vo. Wiedemann (Leipzig), Reise und Lander- 

beschreibungen. Lief. 8. 
A visit to Iceland by the way of Tronyem, in the "Flower of Yarrow" yacht, 

in the summer of 1834. With maps. London, Murray, 1835. 
Bartholini (Erasmus). Accounts of experiments made on a crystal-like body sent 

from Iceland. Philosophical Transactions, 1670. 

Esperimenta Crystal! Islandici disdiaclasti 1665. Hafniae, 1669-1670. 4to. 

Baumgartner (A.). Skizzen einer Nordlandsfahrt. I timaritinu "Stimmen aus 

Maria Laach" byrjar i 6 hepti 1884 og er ekki lokidh enn 8. 6. 85. 
Bedemar (Vargas). Om vulcanske Produkter fra Island. Kbhvn,, 1817. 8vo. 
Bemerkungen iiber Island. Annalen der Erdkunde, ill, 1831, p. 428. 
Bemerkungen iiber die Lage und Beschaffenheit von Thule. Bertusch, Neue allge- 

meiue geographische Ephemeris, xi, 1822, pp. 407-426. 
Besondere Gesceichte von Island. Voyages and Travels. Allgemeine Historie, 

XIX. 

BiCKELL (C). Zusammensetzung einiger Quellenproducte von Island. Liebig's 
Annalen, 70 Baud. Heidelberg, 1849. pp. 290-294. 

Bf JORNUS Gunnlaugi Filius. De mensura et delineatione Islandiae interioris. In 
Monast. Videyensi, 1834. 

BioRN DE Skardsa. Annales Biornonis de Skardsa Island cum interpretatione latina 
notis et iudice. 2 vols. Hrappseyas in Islandiae. E. Hoff, 1774-1775. 4to. 

BiORNON (Paul de). Account of Iceland. From the Latin. Philosophical Trans- 
actions, 1675, pp. 11, 187. 

BiORNONius (Paulus). Account given to some philosophical inquiries concerning 
Iceland. Philosophical Transactions, 1674, p. 238. 

Bj5rnsson ( J6hann). SkyrslaumHeklugosidh. 1845-1846. Ny F^lagsrit, VI, 183-202, 

VII, 234-241; viii, 185-186. 

Black (.Joseph). Aualysis of the waters of some hot springs in Iceland. Philosoph. 

Transact., in. part, 1794, pp. 11, 95. 
Blake (C. Carter). Sulphur in Iceland. London, 1874. (Medh uppdrgetti af Geysl 

og litlum uppdrsetti Islands.) 
Blefkenius (Dithmar). Islandia sive populorum et mirabilium quae in ea insula 

reperiunteor accuratior descriptio, cui de Gronlandia sub finem quaedam adjecta. 

71 p. Lugdunum Batavorum, Henrici ab Hajstens, 1607. 8vo. Leyden, 1609; 

Frankfurt u. Leipzig, 1727. 302 pp. 8vo. 
Blefkenius (D.). Scheepstogt na Ysland en Greenland in 1563. Waar in d'ontdek- 

king des landen, godsdiensten en zeden der Menschen. Nu erst vertaald. Leyden, 

P. V. d. Aa, 1706. Pieter van der Aa LVii Bd. der Naaukeurige versameling der 

reysen ua Oosten. Leeuwarden, 1716. 8vo. 

Tooneel der noordsche Landen met een korte en klare beschryvingh Van 

Ysland en Greenlaudt. Amsterdam, N. V. Ravesteyn, 1652. 

Bonstetten (K. V. v.). Skandinavien und die Alpen. Mit einem Anhange iiber 
Island. Aus dem Franzosischen. Kiel, Akademische Buchhandlung, Maak, 1825. 
8vo. 1827. Franz. Uebers. Genfeve et Paris, 1826. 8vo. 

Breon (R.). Rapport sur une mission en Islande. Arch. Miss. Scientif. 1882. 3 86r., 

VIII, pp. 101-109. 

Browne (J. Ross). ACalifornian in Iceland. Harper's Magazine, vol. 26, pp. 145-162, 
289-311, 448-467. 

The land of Thor. New York, 1867. 

Brown (R.). Heights and positions of the principal mountains and hills in Iceland. 

Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society of London, xii. No. ?, 1868, pp. 

137-138. 
Bryce (James). Impressions of Iceland. Comhill Magazine, vol. xix, pp. 553-570. 

London, 1874. (Contains a reference to the geysers.) 



VULCA.NISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 519 

Bryson (Al.). Notes of a trip to Iceland in 1862. Reprinted from the Scottish 
Guardian for March and April, 1864. 60 pp. London, Simpkin, 1864. 12mo. 

BuNSEN (R. ). Bemerkungen zu einigen Einwiirfen gegen mehrere Ansichten liber 
die chemisch-geologischen Erscheinungen Islands. Wohler und Liebig's Annalen. 
Heidelberg, 1848, pp. 70-85. 

Beitrlige zur Kenntuiss des Islaudischen Tuffgebirges. Liebig's Annalen, 

vol. LXi, 1847, pp. 265-279; vol. Lxv, 1848, pp. 70-85. 

Auszug aus einem Scbreiben von J. J. Borzelius, November 3, 1846. 

Physikalische Beobachtungen iiber die hauptsachlichsten Geiser Islands. 

Poggendorff' s Annalen, &c., vol. Lxxii, 1847, pp. 159-170. 

Ueber den iunern Zusammenbang der pseudo-vulkanischen Erscheinungen 

Islands. Wohler und Liebig's Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, 62 Band, 
Heidelberg, 1847, pp. 1-59. Aunales de Cbimie et de Physique, vol. xxxvii, 1853, 
pp. 21.'>-300. 

Ueber die Processe der vulkanischen Gesteinsbildung Islands. Poggendorff's 

Annalen, Band 83, 1851, pp. 197-272. 

Expedition nach Island. Monatsberichte der Gesellschaft fur Eidkunde. 

Berlin. Neue Folge, iv, 1847, pp. 280-285. 

BuNSEN (R. ) ET Descloizeaux ( A. ). Notes sur Ics temperatures des geysers d'Islande, 
k differeutes profondeurs, observ6es par MM. Descloizeaux et Bunseu, an moi de 
Juillet 1846. (Communiqu6es par M. Dufrenoy.) Comptes Rendus, vol. xxin, 
1846, pp. 934-937. 

BuNSEN (Robert Wilhelm Eberhard). On the intimate connection existing be- 
tween the pseudo-volcanic phenomena of Iceland. [Translated by Dr. G. E. Day.] 
Graham (T.). Chemical reports and memoirs. 8vo. London, for the Cavendish 
Society, 1848, pp. 323-370, 1 pi. 

On the processes which have taken place during the formation of the volcanic 

rocks of Iceland. "Scientific Memoirs, Natural Philosophy. Ed. by J. Tyndall 
and W. Francis." Vol. i. 8vo. London, Taylor & Francis, 1853, part 1, pp. 33-98. 

Burton (Richard F.). Ausflug nach Island im Jahre 1872. Mittheiluugen der 
geograpbischen Gesellschaft in Wieu, xvi, 1873, pp. 213-223; 263-267. 

Island. Globus, Braunschweig, xxviii, 1875. p. 175; Nature, London, vol. xii, 

1875, p. 510. 

Ultima Thule, or a summer in Iceland. With histor. introduction, maps, and 

illustrations. 2 vols. Loudon, Nimmo, 1875; Edinburgh, 1875. 

Reisen im Innern von Island. Aus alien Welttheilen, iv, No. 2, 1872-1873, p. 62. 

Burton (R. Francis). The volcanic eruptions of Iceland in lb74 and 1875. Royal 

Society of Edinburgh. Proceedings, vol. 9. 12mo. Edinburgh, Neill & Co., 

1878, p. 44-.58, 2 colored maps. 
Campbell (J. Francis). Frost and fire, natural engines, tool-marks and chips, with 

sketches taken at home and abroad by a traveler. 2 v., 1 pi., 2 maps, 118 ills. 

8vo. Edinburgh, Edmonston & Douglas, 1865. (Contains Observations on 

Iceland, v. 1, pp. 413-443). 
Chambers (Robert). Tracings of Iceland and the Faroe Islands. London, 1856; 

Edinburgh, 1856 ; Chambers' Magazine, vol. iv, London, 1856. 
Chevalet (E.). Voyage en Islande. Tours, 1884. Svo. 143 pp. 
Clark (J. W.) Journal of a yacht voyage to the Faroe Islands and Iceland. With 

a map. London, Macmillan, 1860. 
Coles (J. ). Summer traveling in Iceland ; being the narrative of two journeys across 

the island by unfrequented routes. London, 1882. Svo. 229 pp. 
COLOMB (Christophe). L'Islande visit^e. Bulletin de la Soci6t6 de G(Sographie. 

Paris. 1 86rie, iv, p. 78. 
Damour (A.). Analyses de quelques eaux thermales siliciffires d'Islande. Paris, Soci6t6 

de G6ologie, Bulletin iv, 1846-'47, pp. 542-550 ; Annales des Mines, XI, 1846, pp. 

333-338. 



620 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Damour (A.). Notes sur la composition de I'eaa de plusieurs sources silicif^res de 

I'Islande. Aonales de Chimie et Physique, xix, 1847, pp. 470-484; Frorieps 

Notizen, iv, 1847, coll. 225-230; Comptes Rendus, xxiv, 1847, pp. 182-184. 
Sur I'incrustation siliceuse des geysers et sur divers hydrates de silice naturels. 

Paris, Soci6t6 de G6ologie, Bulletin v, 1847-'48, pp. 157-163. 
Das Muthmassliche Alter der Geyserrohre. Ausland, xxxiv, 1861, p. 144. 
Daubeny (Charles Giles Bridle). A description of active and extinct volcanoes, 

with remarks on their origin, their chemical phenomena, and the character of 

their products. London, 1826. 
A description of active and extinct volcanoes and of thermal springs. 2d ed. 

London, 1848. 8vo. (Volcanoes of Iceland, pp. 300-315.) 
Delpit. Rapport contenant des observations physiques et g6ologiques faites pendant 

ea mission en Islande. Arch, des missions scientif., i, 1850, p. 587. 
Der Bau der Gebirge auf Island. Ausland, xxxvi, 1863, p. 1035. 
Der grosse Geyser auf Island. Pfennig-MagazLn, Leipzig, i, 1834, p. 233. 
Der Hekla und seine Umgebuug. Ausland, xxvii, 1854, pp. 784, 812. 
Der jungste Ausbruch des Hekla. Fortschritte der Geographic und Naturge- 

schichte. Weimar, 1847, ii, pp. 122-123. 
Der Vulkan Asya auf Island. Ausland, xlix, 1876, p. 680. 

Descloizeaux (A.). Physical and geological observations on the principal geysers of 
Iceland. London, Edinburgh, and Glasgow Philosophical Magazine, vol. xxx, pp. 
391-409. London, R. & J. E. Taylor, No. 203, June, 1847, pp. 391-409. 

Observations physiques et g6ologiques sur les principanx geysers d'Islande. 

Annales de Chimie et de Physique, Paris, vol. xix, April, 1847. 

Eruption de I'Hecla. Journal de I'Oise, Oct. 24, 1846. 

Note sur la hauteur de I'Hecla, et sur l'6ruption qui a eu lieu en Septembre 



1845. Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des s6ances de l'Acad6mie des sciences de 
Paris. Tome xxiii, Juil.-D^cbr., 1846, pp. 771-773. 

Descloizeaux (A. ) et Bunsen (R. ). Notes sur les temp6ratures des geysers d'Islande 
h diff^rentes profondeurs. Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des s6ances de I'Aca- 
d<^mie des sciences de Paris, 1846, Tome xxill, pp. 934-937. 

Die geographische Verbreitung der thiitigeu Vulkane (auf Island). Globus, 
Braunschweig, xxi, 1872, p. 321. 

Die jiJNGSTEN vuLKANiscHEN Eruptionen auf Island. Gaea, xi, 1875, pp. 501-505. 

Die Vulkan Ausbruche auf Island. Lotos, Prag, xxv, 1875. pp. 95-96. 

Die vulkanische Thatigkeit auf Island. Globus, Braunschweig, xxviii, 1875, 
p. 16. 

Dillon (Arthur). A winter in Iceland and Lapland. 2 vols. London, Colburn, 1840, 
8vo; 1850. 

Donnelly (Ignatius). Atlantis: The Antediluvian world. New York, 1882 (Iceland, 
pp. 35 and 46). 

DuFFERiN, Lord (F.F.Blackwood). Letters from High Latitudes; being some ac- 
count of a voyage in the schooner-yacht "Foam" to Iceland, Jan Mayen, and 
Spitzbergen, in 1856. With maps and engravings, 410 pp. London, Murray, 1857, 
8vo; Loudon, Murray, 1858; Boston, 1859, 16mo; 1867; 1873. 

Briefe aus hohen Breitengraden. Bericht iiber eine Reise auf dem Yacht- 
schooner "Foam" nach Iceland, Jan Mayen und Spitzbergen, im Jahre 1856. 
XViii und 330 pp., 1 Tafel, 3 Karten. Braunschweig, Vieweg und Sohn, 1860, 8vo. 
Voyage to Iceland, Jan Mayen, and Spitzbergen.. Quarterly Review, October, 



1857. 

Earthquakes, Lands of the. Harper's Monthly Magazine, xxxviii, p. 466. 
Ebel ( WiLH. ). Geographische Naturkuude, oder Grundziige einer allgemeinen Natur- 

geschichte der 3 Reiche. i. Abth. Plan der geogr. Naturkuude. Ii. Abth. Geogr. 

Naturkuude von Island, xvi und 446 pp., mit 14 ill. Karten und TafeLn. Konigs- 

berg, 1850. 8vo. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 521 

Edmund (Ch.) [Choiecki]. Voyage dans les mere du Nord, ^ bord de la corvette 
"La Reine Hortense." Notices scientifiques communiqu6es par MM. les niem- 
bres de I'exp^dition. Avec une carte de voyage, une carte g^ologique de I'lslande 
et dessius de Ch. Girardet, d'aprfes les aquarelles de Cli. Graud et d'Abrantfes. 632 
pp. et Relation nautique 146 pp. Paris, L6vy fibres, 1857, 4to ; Best and Hotelin, 
Paris, 1862. 

Efterretning om lids Udbrydelsen i Vester-Skaptafells-Syssel i Island, som skal 
oplseses i alio Kirker i Kjobenhavn paa forete Sondag after Nytaar 1784. Kbhvn, 
1784. 8vo. 

Eggers (Christian Ulrich Detlev, Freiherr von). Beschreibung von Island. 
1776. Biiscbiug, Nachrichteu, &c., Berlin, xv, 1778, p. 4. 

Pliysikalische uud statistiscbe Beschreibung vou Island. Kopenhagen, 1786, 

8° ; Flensburg, 1787 ; Altona, Hammerich. (Kun i Theil, 1 Abth. en udkommen; 
en Fortssettelse i Manuskript findes i Reykjavik lierde Skoles Bibliothek.) 

Em AUSFLUG auf Island. Globus, Braunschweig, xvi, 1869, pp. 370, 385. 
EiNARSON (H.). Om lids Udbrud in Island. Archiv for Sovaesen, 1828, li, pp. 385- 

387. 
EiNE Fahrt nach Reikiavik auf Island. Globus, Braunschweig, xv, 1869, pp. 97-104. 
Einfaldir Pankar um akuvyrkjn. Kaupmannshofn, 1771. 8vo. 
Ekkard (F.). Islands Natur- und Volkskunde, nebst der weseutlicbsten Oerter- 

kuude. 2 Hefte m. Kpfr. u. Karten. Kopenhagen, Bonnier, 1812-'15. 12mo. 
Eldgos ur Kotlugj^. Islendiugr, i, pp. 38-39 ; 45-47 ; 61-62 ; 67. 
Erichsen (Jon). Introitus ad Olai Olavii Iter Islandicum. Hafniie, 1780. 4to. 

Udtog af Povel Vidalius Afhandling om Islands Opkomst samt nogle andres af 

samme Inhold, anvendt paa nservserende Tider; med fig. Soroe, 1768. 8vo. 

Erslev, (Ed.). Geologisk-geografisk Undersogelse af Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, 

V, 1881, p. 156. 
Erste authentische Nachrichten von der neu-entstandenen Insel bei Island. 

Kiel'sches Magazin fUr die Geschichte, Staatskunde, u. s. w., von Vict. Heinze, 

1, 1783. 
Eruption of the Skaptar Jokull. Nature, London, vii, 1873, p. 410. 
Eruption du volcan Rotlugia en Islande. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, Vi. s^r., vi. 

aun6e, JuiUet 1860, pp. 120-121. 
Esp6LfN (J6n). Islands Arbaekr i soguformi, 1-12 deild. Kaupmannshofn, 1821- 

1855. 4to. 
Excerpta e geographicis scriptis veterum Islandomm. Havniae, 1837. 4to. 
Expedition scientifique en Islande. Bulletin de la Soci6t6 de Geographic, Paris, 1. 

86r., xiii, p. 306. 
ExTRAiTS des monuments g^ographiques des anciens Islandais. Copenhague, 1852. 

8vo. 
Fabricius (David). De Islandia et Gronlandia. Rostock, 1616. 12rao. 
Feddersen (Arthur). Ritddmrir i "Morgenbladet," 20 April, 1885, i. b6k Schweit- 

zers, K. Keilhack og Tromholts om Island. 
FxNNAEUS (Johannes) [H. Finsen]. Efterretninger om Tidagelserne ved Bjerget 

Hekla udi Island i April og folgende Maaneder 1766. Kjobenhavn, 1767. 8vo. 
FiNNSSYNi (Hannesi). Um brennusteins njim og Kaupverslun a Island! i tid Fridriks 

Annars Dana Kongs. Kitberg. Islenzka Lserdoms lista fSlags, iv, p. 1. 
Forbes (Charles S.). Iceland, its volcanoes, geysers, and glaciers. With a map 

and illustr. London, 1860. London, Murray, 1861. 
FoRCHHAMMER (Georg). Over nogle nye Mineralier paa Island og den maade paa 

hvilken de have dannet Sig isaer ved de paa denne. Oe stedsa h^erskende volk- 

aniske Kraefter (udtog). Skand. Naturf. Forhandl., in, 1842, pp. 501-504. 

Untersuchungen Uber versohiedeue isliindische und franzosische Mineralien, 

nebst allgemeinen Betrachtungen tiber die chemisch-geognostischen Verhaltnisse 
Islands und der Faroer. Erdmann's Journal der Prakt. Chemie, xxx, 1843 pp 
385-400. 



522 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

FORCHHAMMER (Georg). Obq Heklas Udbrud 1845. Oversigt over Videnskabemes 

Selskabs Forhandl., 1845, No. 7. 
Formation d'un nouveau volcan en Islande. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, 1862, 

AoM, pp. 246-247. 
FoRSHAL (P.). Icones rerum iiq,turalium quae in itinere Island! depingi curavit. 

HavniiB, Moller, 1776. 4to. 
FuLDKOMMEN. Relation om det forskrekkelige Vandfald og Exundation af det Bjerg 

Kotlugja i Osten paa Island, som skeede 1721. Kbhvn., 1726. 4to. (2 Blade.) 
Gainard (Paul). Voyage de la Commission scientifique du Nord. Premiere partie. 

Voyage en Islaude et Grcenlande, pendant les ann^es 1835-36. Sur la corvette 

"La Recherche." 4 vols., 8vo. 1 vol., 4to. Paris. 
Garlieb (C). Island riicksichtlich seiner Vulkane, heissen Quellen, Gesundbrunnen, 

Schwefelminen und Braunkohlen, nebst Literatur dariiber. Freyberg, 1819. 8vo. 
Genth (F. a.). UntersuchuDg der Eruptionsprodukte des Hccla. Wohler und Lie- 
big's Annalen fiir Chemie und Pharmacie, 56 Band, Heidelberg, 1848, pp. 13-28. 
Geysers of Iceland. Harper's Magazine, xxv, p. 755; xvi, pp. 145. 457; xxxviii, 

p. 469. 
Gliemann (Th.). Geographische Beschreibung von Island. Altona, Hammerich, 

1824, 8vo; Bertuch, Neue allg. geogr. Ephem., Xlii, 1824, pp. 452-457. 
La description g6ographique de I'lslande. Copenbague, 1824. 8vo. Bulletin 

de la Soci6t(3 de G^ographie, Paris, iii, Voyages, p. 33. Nouv. Annales des Voy- 
ages, xxv, 1825, pp. 81-102. 
Gould (Sabine Baring). Iceland, its scenes and sagas. With a map and many illus- 
trations. 500 pp. London, Smyth & Elder, 1863. 8vo. 
Graah (Captain). Iceland, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. New York, Harper, 

1844. 
Grammaticus (Saxo). Preface to History of Denmark. 
Grondal (Benedikt). Um n^ttiiru Islands. Kmhofu, 1874. 8vo. 
Gruber (J. D.). Beschreibung von Island. Mit col. Kupfern. Leipzig, Schiegg, 

1804. 4to. Cnobloch, 1805. 
Gruber (J. G.). Island und die Wunder der Natur und Menschenwelt in dem Nord- 

pol. Mit Kupfr. und Karten. Hamburg, Vollmer, 1860. 
Grundtvig (Sv. og J. SiGUROSSON). Islenzk fornkvaioi. 1 Heft., 220 pp. Kjoben- 

havn, 1854. Nord. Oldskr., xix. 
GuiSEN (N. L, JR., Van). A holiday iu Iceland. London, 1879. 
GuDHMUNDSSON (B.). Eldsuppkoma fyrir Reykjanesi. Hilbrigdh istidhindi, Juni, 

No. 6, Reykjavik, 1879. 8vo. p. 48. Oversat in Nature, Vol. XX, 2 Oct., 1879. 
GuDHMUNDSSON (J6n). Relation fra Island om hvad der bar tildragck sig i Aaret 

1755, med et Isbjerg, kaldet Kotlugja eller Myrdalsjokull. Kbhvn., 1757. 4to. 

(4 Blade.) 
GuiLLEMiN (Am^dee). Le Monde Physique, Paris, 1885, Vol. v, Livre ii, Chapts. ii, 

III, IV (les geysers ou volcans d'eau) [illustrations of eruption of the Great Geyser 

of Iceland and of the crater of the Hecla]. 
HALLGRfMSSON (TomXs). Um eldgosidh vidh Heklu, 27 febr. 1878. (Fr^ttir fr^ 

Islandi, 1877. Reykjavik, 1878, pp. 43-50.) 
Harnisch (Dr. Wilh. ). Des Sir Georg Stuart Mackenzie Reise durch Island, und des 

John Ross Reise zur Ausforschung des Baffins Busen und seiner Durchfahrt nord- 

westlich von Gronland. Mit 2 Karten. W. Harnish ; Die wichtigsten neueren 

Land- und Seereisen. Leipzig, Fleischer, 1821. 8vo 
Hartwig (George). The polar world. Man and nature in the polar regions. Illus- 
trated. New York, 1869. 
Headley (P. C). The island of tire; or, a thousand years of the old Northmen's 

home; 874-1875. 
Hkare (S.). Dagbog paa en Opdagelsesreiee til Lands til Ishavet, oversat af J. 

Werfel. Kjobenhavn, 1862. 8vo. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 623 

Hklland (Amund). Storrelsen of Islands Jokler. Geografisk Tidskrift, vii, p. 25. 

Vulkanerne af 1783 paa Island. Meddeleser fra den naturhistorisk Forening 

i Kristiania. Udgive vid G. A. Gerldberg, O. Johann-Oleen og R. Fridtz. Krist- 
iania, 1885. Forlagt af Alb. Cammermeyer, pp. 67-74. 

Om Islands Jokler og om Jokelelveues Vandmaengdr og Stamgehalt. Archiv 

for Matliematlk og Naturvidensk. B. vu, pp. 200-2.32. 

Islaendingen Sveinn Frissons beskrivelse af islandske vulkaner. Middelt af 

Den Norske Turistforenings Irbog for 1882, pp. 19-79; 1884, pp. 27-56. 

Hoidemaalinger fra Island. Archiv for Matliematik og Naturvidensk. Bd. 

VII, pp. 233-239. 

Om vulkaner i og under jokler paa Island og om JokuUaup. Tidskrift udgivet 

af den Letterstidske Forening, 1883. 

Om Island. Nyt Tidskrift. Kristiania, 1882, og 1883. Bd. l-ill, pp. 53-67, 

167-173, 348-360 ; Bd. iv, pp. 44-58, 257-267. 

Studier over Islands petrografi og geologi. Archiv for Mathematik og Natur- 
vidensk. Bd. 9p, p. 69-154. 

Islands Beskrivelse af Thorvaldur Thoroddsen. Efter " Lysing Islands" oversat 

af Amund Helland. 

Ora Islands Geologi. Geografisk Tidskrift, udgivet af Bestyrelsen Ipr det Kon- 

gelige Danske Geografiske Selskab. Bd. 6, 1882, pp. 71-83, 103-111. 

Helms (H.). Island und die Islander. 2 Bde. Leipzig, Fitsch, 1869. 8vo. 

Henderson (Ebenezer). Iceland, or the journal of a residence in that island, during 
the years 1814 and 1815. With an introduction and appendix. Illustrated with 
a map and engravings. 2 vols. Edinburgh, 1818, 1819. Boston, Perkins & Mar- 
vin, 1831. 12mo. 

Voyage en Islande, 1814, 1815. Eyries, vii. 

Island, Oder Tagebuch seines Aufenthalts daselbst in den Jahren 1814 und 

1815. 2 Bde. 1820-21. A. d. Engl. v. C. F. Franceson. Mit 1 Karte, 2 Th. Berlin, 
1820-21. Magazin von merkw. neuen Reisebeschr. Berlin, Forster, xxxiv, xxxv. 
Band. 

Historical (An) and descriptive account of Iceland, Greenland, and the Faroe 
Islands; with illustrations of their natural history. Maps by Wright, and en- 
gravings by Jackson and Bruce. Edinburgh, Simpkin, 1840. 12mo. 

HjALTALfN (J6n). Recent eruption of the Kotlugja Volcano, Iceland. Perthshire 
Advertiser or Strathmore Journal for 26 August, 1860. 

HjALTALfN (Dr.). Ueber einen vulkanischen Ausbruch auf Island. Ausland, xu, 
1868, p. 120. 

Extract of a letter to J. W. Evans, Esq. Great volcanic eruption in Iceland in 

August, 1867. Proceedings of the R. Geographical Society of London, xii, No. 1. 
1868, p. 58. 

HjALTALfN (J. A. ). An Icelander's Notes on Iceland. Illustrated Travels, ed. by Bates. 
Part XX, 1870, pp. 252-2.56 ; xxi, pp. 264-270 ; xxii, pp. 302-306. 

HjaltalIn (J.). Docent Paijkull's: En Sommer i Island. 36 pp. Reykjavik (Co- 
penhagen, Philipsen), 1868. 8vo. 

HoFF (K. E. A. von). Geschichte der durch Ueberlieferung nachgewiesenen natiir- 
lichen Veriinderungen der Erdoberfliiche, i-v. Gotha, 1821-41. 8vo. 

Holland (E. T.). Tour in Iceland in the summer 1861. (Kennedy, E. Th., Peaks, 
passes and glaciers. A second series of excursions and explorations by members 
of the Alpine Club. 2 vols. London, Longman, 1862.) 

Holm (Saemundi Magnussyni), Um melinn eda villukornit i skaptasfellssyslu. 
Ritbesz. Islenzka Lserdomslistaffelags, ii, p. 139. 

Om Jordbranden paa Island i aaret 1783. Kjobenhavn, 1784. 8vo. 

Vom Erdbrande auf Island im Jahre 1783. Aus dem Danischen. Mit 2 Land- 

karten. Kopenhagen, 1784. 8vo. Biisching, Nachrichten, Berlin, xu, 1784, p. 303. 



624 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Hooker (Sir William Jackson). Journal of a tour in Iceland in the summer of 1809. 

Yarmouth, 1811. Bvo. Second edition, London, 1813; also a new edition, 1842. 
Der Besuch bei den siedenden Quellen von Geyser in Island. Hormayrs Archiv, 

1815, No. 46. 

Voyage en Islande, 1809. Eyries, vil. 



HoRREBOW (NicoLAUS). Tilfoiladelige Efterretninger om Island. Mit Karte. 

Kjobenhavn, 1750, 1752. 8vo. 
Natural history of Iceland, interspersed with an account of the island, by 

Anderson. Translated from the Danish original. With a map. London, 1758. 

folio. 

Nouvelle description physique, civile et politique de I'lslande, avec des obser- 



vations critiques sur I'histoire naturelle de cette lie, donn^e par M. Anderson et 

trad, de I'allem. par M. D. S. (Rousselot de Surgy et Merlin). 2 vols, avec une 

carte. Paris, Charpentier, 17G4. 12mo. 
HoRREBOW (Niels). De Tegenwoordige Staat of omstandige Beschrijving van 

Ysland. Mit het Deensch in't Nederl. vertaalt. Amsterdam, 1754. 4to. 
Zuverliissige Nachrichten von Island. As d. Diinischen. Kopenhagen und 

Leipzig. Pelt, 1753, 1754. 8vo. 

Beschrijving van Islandia Zutphen. 1756. 8vo. 



Iceland and its explorers. Edinburgh Review, 1876, No. 291, pp. 222-250. 

Iceland. Popular Science Monthly, xvii, pp. 710. 

Iceland, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Harper, 1841. 

Inberetning om den af Prof. Johnstrup foretagne Undersogelsesreise paa Island i Som- 

mern 1876. Med 2 Kort og 2 Tegninger. Sserskilt Aftryk af Rigsdagstiden- 

deu for 29ordentlige Samling 1876-1877. Tiling B. Sp. 899-926. Kmhofn, 1877. 
Island. Ein Natur-und Volksbild. Ausland, xxvii, 1854. pp. 1167, 1191, 1215. 
Island. Journal f. d. neuesten Land- und Seereisen, lxxxiii, 1836, p. 89. 
Island Okenit. Jahrbuch der geologischen Reichsanstalt. Wien, v, 1854, p. 190 ; x. 

Art. 12. 
Islande. Une visite au Vatna Jokull et au Myrda Jokull. L'Explorateur, xi, 1875, 

p. 631. 
Islands Geysirterritorium i vore Dage. Af Sophus Tromholt. (Aftrykt, en Del 

forkostet, med Forfs Tilladelse af bans Bog "Breve fra Ultima Thule"). Na- 

turen, 9 Aarg., No. 8-9, Aug.-Sept., 1885, p. 125. 
Islands heisse Quellen. Tedeschi, das Interessanteste aus der Landerkunde, ii, 1828, 

p. 130. 
Islands jiingste vulkanische Phanomene. Ausland, 1879, No. 13, pp. 243-247. 
ISLENZKiR annjClar ; sive annales islendiciab anno Christi 803 ad annum 1430, adente 

Orsted &c. Hafnise, 1847. 4to. 

A. Flateyjaranndll til 1394. Paa Pergament i det store Kgl. Bibliothek. 

B. Hanksann^ll til 1313. Pgm. i Ami Magnnssons HaandskrLftaaml. No. 415. 4to. 

C. Konangsauntlll (annales regii) til 1306 +1307-28 (to forsk Haender); 1 det store Kgl. BbL 

Gamniel Kgl. Saml. No. 2087. 4to; en Papirafskrift fra A. M. efter eeldere Membran 
naaer til 1341. 

D. SkAlholtsanndll hinn forui til 1356. A. M. 420. c. 4to. Pgm. 

E. Logmnnn8annillelIeranu411EinarHaflidhasonar(+1393) till392. A. M. 420. 4to (Autogr. 

andtagen de sidste Aar) ; heraf er SkdlholtsanndU hinn n^ en Forsaettelse tU 1430. A. 
M. 420. 4to. 

F. H61aann411 fomi til 1396 paa Papir. A. M. 410. 4to. 

G. Papirhaandskrift. A. M. 410. 4to. Der gmnder sig paa Sk4Iholt8ann411 fomi og SkAlholts- 

anndll n;^i ; naaer til 1430. 
H. og M. Oddaannill, 2 Fragmenter, paa Papir, 1176-1427+742-1369. A. M. 429. 4to. 
I. H61aann411 n^?i. Paa Piipir. A. M. 412. 4to. Naaer til 1394. 
K. Resensannall til 1295. Afskrift paa Papir 1 A. M. 424. 4to. Den meget gamle Original 

braendte, 1728. 
L. Logmannsannill n^ til 1427. Papir. A. M. 417. 4to. 
N. Et Bradstykke af en Ann^l fra 1328-1372. Papir i A. M. 423 4to 



VULCANISM, ETC , IN ICELAND. 525 

IiTiGii (THORNiE). Lnoubrationes academicse de montinm incendiis. Lipsise, 1671. 
8vo. (Cap. V, pag 98. De montibus igniv Islandiae. ) 

Jacobaeus (Haltorus). Fuldstaendige Efterretninger om de udi Island ildsprudende 
Bierge. Kjobenhavn, 1757. Bvo. 

Jakobsson (Halld6r) [Jacobaeusl. Fuldstsendige Efterretninger om de udi Island 
ildsprudende Bierge. Kbhvn., 1759. Bvo. 

Janson (K.). Fraa Island. Med 4 Bilaete. Christiania. 8°. Forlagt av det Norske 
Samlaget ; Trykt bjaa K. J. Jensen, 1874. 

Jahdin (Ed.). Voyage g^ologi que autour de I'Islande, fait en 1866 sur la frigate "Le 
Pandore." 2 pi., 39 pp. Paris, Baillifere, 1874. Bvo. 

JOHNSTRUP (Fr.). Ueber dau vulkauischen Ausbruch auf Island im Jahre 1875; 
mit einleitenden literarischen und geographiscbeu Bemerkungen, sowie mit einigen 
Karten, Skizzen und Abbildungen. Det Danske Geografiske Selskabs Tidskrift, 
1877, Nos. 3 and 4. Petermann's Geogr. Mittheil., 1877, p. 316. 

Om de i Aaret 1875 forefaldne vulkanske Udbrud paa Island, tilligemed nogle 

indledende geografiske Bemerkinger. [Volcanic eruptions in Iceland in 1875.] 
Det Danske Geografiske Selskabs Tidskrift. Bd. i, pp. 50-66. (Map, not geol- 
ogical and views of craters at Askia.). Geolog. Record, 1877, p. 75. 

Indberetning om den i Sommeren 1876 foretagne Undersogelsesreise paa 



Island. Tillaeg til Rigsdagstidenden for 1876-1877, Kjobenhavn, p. 14, 4 pi., 

views and maps. Geolog. Record, 1877, p. 76. 
J6NSSON ( ArngrImer). Anatome Blefkeniana, qua Dithmari Blefkenii viscera, magis 

priBcipura, in libello de Islaudia, anno 1607 edito, convulsa, per manifestam 

extenterationem retexuntur. Holura, 1612. 8vo. 2d edition, Hamburgi, 1613. 

4to. 87 pp., 1618. 
KIlund (P. E. Kristian). Bidrag til en bistorisk-topografisk beskrievelse af Island 

Nordlaendings Fjferding. Kbhvn., 1879. Med 4 lithogr. Kort. 192+2 pp. Bvo. 

(Doktordispfitazia. ) 
Bidrag til en bistorisk-topografisk beskrievelse af Island. Kbhvn., 1877. i. 

SydogVest-Fjferdingerne. Med 9 lith. Kort. xil+638pp. Bvo. ii. Ostfjaerdingen. 

Med 5 lith. Kort og et Traesnit. 236 pp. Bvo. Udgivet af Kommissionen for det 

Arnamagnseanske Legat. 

Islands Fortidslsevninger. Kbhvn., 1882. Aarb. f. nord. Oldk. og Historie, 



pp. 57-124. 

Keilhack (Dr. Konrad). Reisebilder aus Island. 
Islands Natur und fhre Einfliisse auf die Bevolkerung. Deutsche Geogr. Blatter, 

IX, 1886, pp. 1-30. Mit einer Karte und ein Goologisches tjbersichstskartchen des 

Heklagebietes. 
Bjennedy (E. Sh.) Peaks, passes, and glaciers. London, Longman, 1862. 
Kenngott (Dr. A.). Ueber einen Obsidian vom Hekla auf Island. Verhandl. der 

Geologischen Reichsanstalt, Wien, V, 1870, p. 287. Neues Jahrbuch riii- Minera- 

logie, 1870, p. 529. 
Fluolith aus Island, eine Abanderung des Pechsteines. Sitzungsberichte der 

mathematisch naturwissenschaftlichen Classe der Akademie der Wissenschaften in 

Wien, XII, pp. 485-492. 

Levyn aus Island. Vierteljahrsschrift der naturforschenden [Gesellschaft in 



Zurich, XVI, 3 Heft, 1871, pp. 262-263. 
Kerguelen (TRfeMARECDE). Beschreibuug seiner Reise nach derNordsee, die erin 

den Jahren 1767 und 1768 an den Kiisten von Island, Gronland, Faroer, Shetland, 

der Orkney und Norwegen gethan. Aus dem Franzos. Mit 2 Karten und 1 Kup- 

fer. Leipzig, W. Vogel, 1772. Bvo. 
Relation d'un voyage dans la mer du nord aux cdtes d'Islande, du Greenland, 

etc., fait en 1767 et 1768. Paris, de Prault, 1771 ; Amsterdam et Leipziig, 1772. 
Nachricht von ein igen Merkwiirdigkeiten Islands. Berlin. Sammlungen, vil, 



pp. 147-162. 



526 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Ker (David). Into the far north ; or, a glance at Hecla and the geysers. Hodder 

(Edwin, editor). All the world over. 12mo, New York and London, 1877, v. 1, 

pp. 21-28, 101-116, 186-192, 285-292, with 3 plates. 
Ketelsen (Magnus). Islands Maaneds Tidenuer. Oct. 1873— Oct. 1876. Hrappseyse, 

1777. 
King (Arthur). Voyage to Iceland, 1517. Haklnyt, i. 
King (Malgo). Voyage to Iceland, 1580. Haklnyt, i, 
Kjerulf (Th.). Islands Vulcanlinjer [volcanic lines in Iceland]. Nyt Magazinfor 

Naturvidenskaberne, Christiania, Bd. xxi, 1 Heft, pp. 147-166. Zeitschrift der 

Deutschen Geologischeu Gesellschaft, Berlin, Band xxvui, Heft 2, pp. 203-216. 

Geological Record, 1875, p. 75 ; 1876, p. 81. 
Istiden. [The glacial period.] Vidensk. Verh. Kbhvn., Bd. iii, No. 17, pp. 

203-274. Geolog. Record, 1876, p. 81. 

Bidrag til Islands geognostiske Fremstilling. Nyt Magazin for Naturviden- 
skaberne, vii, 1853, pp. 1-70, 

Notis om Askeregnen, 1875. Morgenbladet, Kristiania, April, 1875. 

Ora Islands trachytiske Dannelser. Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne, 

viii. 1855, pp. 72-116. 
Kxoss(F. Th.). Ansichten von Island. Heft 1. Kopenhagen, 1835. Fol. max. 
Kneeland (Samuel). An American in Iceland. An account of its scenery, people, 

and history, with a description of the millennial celebration in August, 1874, with 

notes on Orkney, Shetland, and the Faroe Islands, and the great eruption of 1875. 

Boston, Lockwood, 1876. Geological Record, 1876, p. 169. 
Konig (Johann Gerhard). Ueber einige Merkwiirdigkeiten Islands. Besch. d. 

Berliner Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, li, p. 536. 
Kort Beratlelse om berget Kraffa pa Island, samt andre diirnast indtil graneande 

berg hvilka nyligen begyndt att utspruta eld och brinna. Stockholm, 1724. 4to. 
Krug vox Nidda(B. C). On the mineral springs of Iceland. Jameson's Philo. 

Journal, vol. xxii, pp. 99-220 ; Karsten's Archiv, tx, p. 247. 
Geoguostische Darstelluug der Insel Island. Karsten's Archiv, fur Mineral., 

Geologic, «&-c., vii, 1834, pp. 421-525. 
Langkarel (B.). Die Far-Or, Island und Gronland. Die Natur, 1883, ix. No 120. 
Lapeyrouse (S. de). Deux mois en Islande. L'Explorateur, ii, 1875, pp. 245, 247. 
La FREY:feRE (J. de). Account of Iceland, fol. London, 1732. 
Lawrence (Eug£:ne). Lands of the earthquake. Harper's Monthly Magazine, 

xxxviii, p. 466. 
Lecleucq (E.). La Terre de Glace. Paris, 1882. 

Les Volcans de I'lslande. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, Sept. 1862, pp. 361-365. 
Lettres Sorites des regions polaires, par Lord Duflferin. Paris, 1860, [See, also, Lord 

Duiferiu.] 
Le ultime explorazione nell' Islandia. Roma. Bollet., Anno x, ser. ii, xiii, 1876, 

pp. 312-321. 
Lindsay (W. Lander). On the eruption in May, 1860, of the Kotlugja Volcano, Ice- 
land. Edinburgh New Philosoph, Journal, January, 1861, pp. 6-55. Same, 1 

chart, 8vo, Edinburg, Neill & Co., 1861, 
Contributions to the natural history of Iceland, Greenland, &c., prepared for 

the use of the Arctic expedition, 1875. 
Lock (Charles G. Wanford). The home of the Eddas. (With a chapter on the 

Sprengisandr, by Dr. C. C. Neuve Forster.) Loudon, 1879, 350 pp. 8vo. 
Longman (W.). Suggestions for the exploration of Iceland, London, Longman, 

1861. 
LOPTSSON (MarkiJs). Rit urn jardhelda ^ Islandi. Reykjavik, 1880, 8vo, 
LOTLINI, Voyage in Iceland of the Scientific committee of the North. Geology, 
L5WENORN (Capt. VON). Ueber die in der Niihe von Island entstandene vulkanische 

Insel. Allg. geogr. Ephem,, iii, 1799, p, 553. 
Vulkanische Insel bei Island. Allg, geogr, Ephem., ni, 1799, p. 523. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 527 

Mackenzie (Sir George Stewart, Bart.). Travels iu Iceland during the summer 
of the year 1810 ; containing a dissertation on the History and the Literature of 
the Island, a Journal of the Author's Excursions, a view of the State of Education, 
Literature, Government, Laws, Religion, and Cjmmerce ; with zoological and 
mineralogical Observations, and an Appendix, containing original and illustrative 
papers. With two maps and 15 plates. London, 1811, 4to ; Edinburgh, 1811, 
1812, 1842. People's Edition, London, Chambers, 1842. 8vo. 

Travels in the island of Iceland during the summer of the year 1810. Neue 

allgem. geogr. Ephem., xvii, p. 198. 

Reise durch die Insel Island im Jahre 1810. Journal fiir die neuesten Land- 



und Seereisen, Berlin, XX, 1815, p. 310; xxi, pp. 164,197. Bertuch, Bibliothek 
der neuesten Reisebeschreibungen, 1 Band der 2 Halfte der 1 Centurie. Weimar» 
1815. 8vo. 
Mackinlay (David). Notes of a tour in Iceland in 1859. Proceedings of the Philos. 
Soc. of Glasgow, iv, 1859, pp. 259-262; v, 1860-1861, pp. 10-16. 

Madsen (C. L.). Den nordatlantiske Telegraf over Fteroerne, Island og Gronland. 

Geograf. Tidskrift, 1884, vii, No. 5, pp. 87-95. 
Et Par Ord om Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, 1880, pp. 61-63. 

MAGxtJssoN (Thorsteinn). Saudferdig og kort islandiske Relation om det for- 
ferdelige og gruelige Jordskelff, som shedde for Osten paa Island, hoss Tycke- 
bey Kloster, forgangen Septembris med Torden og Linnet. Ildens Nedfald aff 
Lufi'ten, med stort Morck, Aske, fuhrige og gloende Steene, u. s. v. Paa Dansk 
ved Nicol. Helduader. Kbhvn.,1627. 4to. 

Major (R.H.). Voyages and map of the Zeni. Proceed. R. Geogr. Soc, 1883, V, 
No. 12, pp. 725-728. 

Mallet (R.). On the conversion of Geyser throats in Iceland into Volcanic vents. 
Phil. Mag., vol, iii, pp. 108, 109. Geological Record, 1877, p. 175. 

Malm (Erasmus). Diss, gradualis de Refractionibus Crystalli Islandici, sub prae- 
sidio Samuelis Duraci. c. fig. Upsalae, 1761. 4to. 

Marmier (Xavier). Histoire de I'Islande, depuis sa d^couverte, jusqu'a nos jours. 
Avec 30 vignettes. Paris, Arthur Bertrand, 1818. 8vo. 

Le Geyser et I'Hecla. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, Paris, iii, s^r. xi, 1836, 

pp. 370, 371. 

Voyages en Islands et Groenlande, ex6cut6s pendant les ann^es 1835 et 1836 

sur la corvette " La Recherche." 7 vols. 8vo, avec 2 atlas in fol. et 1 atlas in 8vo. 
Paris, Arthur Bertrand, 1838. 

Lettres suy I'Islande. Paris, Bonnaire, 1837, 8vo ; dell'Oie Garner fr^res, 



1839; 1844. A. Bertrand, Paris, 185.5, 12mo. (Trad, de Achille Mauri). Milano, 
1841. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, Paris, in 8^r.,xv, 1837, pp. 239-347. 

Mathiesen (H. von). Ueber die Entstehung des Monte Nuovo und die neueste Hekla 
Eruption. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, &c., 1846, pp. 586-595. 

Ueber die Hekla Eruption, 1845. Neues Jahrb. fiir Mineralogie, &c., 1847, 

pp. 44-47. 

Maurer (K. ). Island von seiner ersten Entdeckung bis zum Untergang des Frei- 
staats. 490 pp. Miinchen, 1874. 8vo. 

Ritd6mur um Kalund. Bidrag til en histor.-topogr. Beskrivelse af Island, 

i-u Band. Literatu rblatt fiir germ, iind romanische Philologie, iv, pp. 1-5, 
Aarg. 1883. 



Ueber Kalunds topografisk-hist. beskrivelse af Island. " Germanise," 1879. 



Melsted (PXll). Fr^ttir fr^ Heklu. Nyt F61agscrit, vi, pp. 202-210. 

Menge ( Johan). Notice of a mineralogical journal through south, north, and east 
Iceland. Edinburgh Philos. Journal, II, Jan. -April, 1 820, pp. 156-167. 



528 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Menge (Johan). Fragment eur une excursion enterprise an Geyser et au Struck Vol- 
cano d'eau de I'Islande. Ann. G6n. Sci. Phys., ii, 1819, pp. 205-207. Oken Isis, 
1820 (Litz ang), col. 513-516. 

Descrizione della Sorgente calde delle Geysers en Island. Trans, fr. "Morgen- 

blatt," 1819. Brugnatelli Giornale, in, 1820, pp. 191-194. 

Description des sources chaudes, dites Geysers en Islande. Journal des Voy- 



ages, VI, 1820, pp. 14-20. 
Mequet (E.). Voyage en Islande et au Grceulande en 1835 et 1836 sur la corvette 

"La Recherche", Paris, 1852. 
Metcalfe (Rev. Frederik). The Oxonian in Iceland; or notes of travels in that 

island in the summer of 1860. 450 pp. with map and illust. London, Longman, 

1861, 8vo ; Loudon, Hofcten, 1857, 12mo. 
Meyn (L.). Zur Chronologic der Paroxysmen des Hekla. Zeitsch. d. Deutsch. 

Geolog. Gesell., Berlin, vi Band, 1861, pp. 291-299. 
Miles (Plikg). Nordurfari, or rambles in Iceland. London, Longman, and New 

York, 1854. 

Eine Nordfahrt. Streifziige in Island. Aus d. Engl, von W. E. Drugulin 

Leipzig, 1855. 8vo. Conversations- und Reisebibliothek, Leipzig, Lorck, vi 
Band, 1855. 

MOHN(H.). Askeregnen den 29 de 30 Marts 1875. Naturen, 1877, pp. 152-153. For- 
handliuger i Videnskabs Selskabet i Kristiania, 1877, Kristiania, 1878, No. 10, pp. 
1-12 (med Kort). 

Mohr(A.). Fors0g til en islandsk Naturhistorie. Kbhvn, 1786. 8vo. 413 pp. 

MiJLLER (J. H. J.). Ueber Bunsen's Geysertheorie. Poggendorff's Annalen, Band 79, 
pp. 350-353, 562-567. 

Neuestes aus Island. Petermann's Geogr. Mitth, viii, 1862, p. 228. 

Nachriciiten aus Island. Ausland, xx, 1847, p. 368. 

Nachricht von dem Feuerausbruch im westlichen Staptefells-Syssel in Island, so 
wie auf kouiglichen Befehl am ersten Sountage nach Neujahr 1784 in alien 
Kifchen zu Kopenhagen soil verlesen werden. Kopeuhagen, 1784. 8vo. 

NiCHOL (J.). Iceland, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. New York, 1841. 

NoRDEXSKiOLD (A. E.). Studieu und Forschungeu veraulasst durch meine Reise im 
hohen Nordeu. Leipzig, Brockhaus, 1885. 

Om Broderna Zenos Resor. og de aldsta Kartor ofver Norden. Stockholm, 

1883. 8vo. 

Norman (C). Den nyevulkanske O ved Island. Dagbladet, Kopenhagen, 7 Decbr., 

1884. 
NouGARET (Jules). Rapiiort. Le surtarbrandur d'Islande, les ancieuues forfits et 

le reboisement de cette lie, par M. Edelestau Jardin. Bulletin de la Soci6t6 de 

G^ographie, Paris, s^r. V, Vi, 1868, pp. 185-191. 
NouGARET (N.). Voyage dans I'lnt^rieur de rislande. Le Tour du Monde, 1868. 2. 

som. pp. 113-160. 
NouvELLE DESCRIPTION de I'islaude. 2 vols. Paris, 1874. 12mo. 
Oddsen (G.). Almenn Landaskipunarfrsedi utgelin at tilhlutun bins Islendska 

B6kmenta Fdlags. 1-2 B. m. K. Kaupmaunahofn, 1821-'27. 8vo. 
Ohlsen. Om vandspringende Geiser og Strok i Island. K. D. Vidensk. Selsk. Skrif- 

ter, 1805, iv, pp. 233-246. Gilberts Annalen, vol, XLUI. 
Olafsson (Eggert) ; see also Olafsen {Eggert), Olafssyni ( Olafi), Olavius (Eggerhardua), 

Olavius (Olaus). 
Olafsen (Eggert) [Eggertus Olavius]. Disquisitio antiquario physica de Ortu et 

progressu superstitionis circa iguem Islaudiae subterraneum vulgo infernalem. 

HafnisB, 17r)l, 4to. 
Olafsen (Eggert) [Eggertus Olavil]. Ennarrationes historije de Islaudiae natura 

et constitutione, formatae et transformatte per eruptiones ignis. Particula I. De 

Islandia antiquam ccepta est habitari. Hafniai, 1749. 8vo. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 529 

Olafsson (Eggert), uncldesBioUNE Povelsons Reise diirch Island, veranstaltet von 
der K. Soc. d. Wisseuschafttn in Kopeuliageii, imd beschriebeu von Eggert Olaf- 
sen. Alls deni Diiuisclieu iibersetzt. Mit 51 Kupfer und 1 Cbarte iibor Island. 
Kopenbagen und Leipzig, bey Heinicke nnd Faber, 1774-75. 4to. 1, 328 pp.; ii, 224 
pp. luit Karte ; Nyt Carte over: Island orfattel ved Erichsen og Scbouniiig, 1771. 
Gest. V. J. Haas 1772, 1 : 1,200,000. Mit den Ansicbten : Hage Tafel, Sueefell, Dran- 
gar und Hornstrand beym Nordcap ; Den Brolende Hoi paa Hveravalle; Geyser; 
Mit dem Grnndriss von Surthellir. Dresden, Schubotbe, 1787, 2 vols. 4to. 

Olafsen et Povelsen. Voyage en Islaude fait par ordre de S. M. Danoise. Traduit 
du Danois par Gautbier de Lapeyrouse pour lee 3 premiers, i)ar Biornered pour 
les 2 derniers volumes. 5 vols. Paris, 1801. 8vo, avec; atla8de60pl. 4to. Paris 
et Strasbourg, freres Levrault, 1802, 4to. 5 vols, et 1 atlas. I, 444 jd. ; ii, 434 
pp. ; III, 400 pp. ; iv, 451 pp. ; V, 419 pp. mit der Karte : Nouvelle Carte d'Islande 
dapr^s celle des prof. Ericbsen efc Scboennlng, 1 : 1,200,000, und den Ansicbten: Cap 
Drangar ; I'Hveravalle ; le Geyser ; H6cla. Versailles, Jacob, 1802. 4to. 

Olafsen (Eg.) og Povelsen (Bjarni). Reise igjennem Island. 2 dele med 51 Kob- 
berstokkerogen Kart, 1772. 4to. 

Olaffsen und Povelsen. Reise durch Island, 1773. Biisching, Nachrichten, Berlin, 
II, 1774, pp. 188-191. 

Olafsson (Eggert) and PXlsson (Bjarni). Travels in Iceland. London, 1805. 

6lafsson (Eggert) and PiLSSON (Bjarni). Travels in Iceland, performed by or- 
der of bis Danish Majesty. Contaiuing observations on the manners and customs 
of the inhabitants, a description of the lakes, rivers, glaciers, hot springs, and 
volcanoes ; of the various kinds of earths, stones, fossils, and petrifactions, as 
well as of the animals, insects, fishes, &c. Translated from the Danish [and 
abridged by F. W. B.]. 4 pL, 1 map. 8vo. London, 1805. A collection of mod- 
ern and contemporary voyages and travels, v. 2. 8vo. Loudon, for R. Phillips, 
1806. 

Ola VI (Eggerthus filliiis). Nockrar Huglidingar frammselter i Liddum, som nef- 
nast Biinadar Baulknr, i thrin kvaede um dalegt Buskaper Liif Islendiga. Hrapp- 
seyae, 1783. 8vo. 

Ola VII cekouomiske Reise igjennem de nordwestlige, nordlige og nordostlige Kanter 
af Island. Med Karte 1-2 D. Kjobenhavn, 1780, 4to; 1783. 

Olavii [Olafson] (Olavus). F{icina Skiringar greinir um Smior og Ostabunar k 

Islaudi. Hafnias, 17S0. 8vo. 

Olavius (Eggerhardus). Islandus Aefe Eggerts Olafsonar vice Logmans i Island. 
Hrappsey, 1784. 8vo. 

Olavius (Olaus). Oekonomische Reise durch Island in den nordwestlichen und 
nordostlichen Gegenden. Aus dem Diinischen von J, Jasperson. Mit 17 Kpfr. 
und 1 Karte. Dresden und Leipzig, 1787 ; Leipzig, Hinrichs, 1805. 

Oekonomische Reise durch Island. 276 pp. Busching, Nachrichten, Berlin, 

XV, 1778, p. 275. 

Oswald (E. J.). By fell and fjord ; or scenes and studies in Iceland. 

PXlsson (Bjarni). (See Olafsson (Eggekt).) 

PXlsson (Sveinn). Udtog af en Dagbog holden paa Reise i Island. Natnrhistorik 
Selskab Skrifter for 1792. 

Palsson et HjALTALfN : Eruption en Islande, 1867. L'Institut, i. Sect, sciences ma- 
th6m., phys. et uatur., Paris, 1867, 8vo, No. 1768-1773, XXXV, p. 376. 

Paijkull (C. W.). Bidrag til kiinuedomen om Islands bergsbygrad. K. S. Vetensk. 
Akad. Handlinger, vil. No. 1. Stockholm, 1867. 4to. 

Istiden i Norden. Foreliisningar h§,llna i Stockholm, 1866. Stockholm, 1867. 

Bvo. 

H. lUis. 15 34 



530 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Paijkull (C. W.). En sommar pa Island. Reseskildring. Med 30 illustr. i triisnitt 
4 lithograf. och en karta ofver Island. Stockholm, Bonnier, 1866, 8vo; 1867. Med 

35 illustr. i triisnitt 4 lithographier i farvetryk og et graveret Kort over Island, 1: 
1,280,000, 348 pp., Kjobenliavn, O. H. Delbanco, 1867. 8vo. Mit den Ansichten : 

Hekla, Reykjavik, en Gruusmark, Dyrhdlorey eller Portland Nup stadhr Reynis- 

dr^ngar; Vulkauen Herdhubreidh ; Vulkankrater ved Lierhnfikr; Almannagja; 

Brtiar^ Geysir ; mit der Karte : Geysirs Kildessystem ; Strokkr und Hekla. 

A summer in Iceland. Translated by Rev. M. R. Barnard. London, 1868. 

Paterson ( W. G. Sp.). The new volcanic island of Iceland. Nature, 13 Novbr., 1884, 

pp. 37-38. 
Paulixi (Chr. Fr.). De Hecla observationes physica). Hamburgi. 1676. 4to. 
Paulsen (Svend). Udtog af hans reise til og i Island pa Iden Julii til 7de Septb. 

1791. Kjobenhavn, Skdnv., Nat. Selsk. n, 1792, p. 22 [pte.22J, pp. 122-146. 
Pauly (Friedr.) Topographie von Diinemark einschliesslich Islands und derFaroer. 

Altona, 1828; Dessau. 8vo. 
Pfeiffer (Ida). A Journey to Iceland and Travels in Sweden and Norway. From 

the German by Charlotte Feniraore Cooper. New York, 1852, 12mo; London, 

Bentley, 1852; London, Ward & Lock, 1856. 8vo. 
Phipson (T. L.). Earthquakes. (lu his family lectures.) 
Pierce (B. M.). A report on the resources of Iceland and Greenland. 72 pp. with 1 

map. Washington, U. S. State Department, 1868, 8vo ; Washington, 1871. 
Petermann's Neue Karte der Diinischen Monarchie. 3, Island, 1 : 6,000,000. Peter- 

mann's Geogr. Mittheilungen, viii, 1862, p. 227. 
Plums (J. S.). Reise iugtagelser i Ingials, Hools og Troder sogne i Island, i aarene 

1798 og 1799. Kjobenhavn, 1800. 8vo. 
PoESTioN (F. C). Das Island und seine Bewohner. Nach den neuesten Quellen. 

Mit einer Karte. Wion, 1885. 
Ponton. (M.). Earthquakes and volcanoes. 
Preyer (W.) und Zirkel (F.). Reise nach Island im Sommer 1860, vii und 499 pp. 

Mit wissenschaftlichen Anhangen, Holzschnitten und einer lithogr. Karte. 

Leipzig, Brockhaus, 1862. 8vo. 
PeyrJire. Account of Iceland. Churchill, ii. 

Prince Napoleon's Journey to the North. Bentley 's Miscellany, November, 1857. 
Projectirte danische Forschungsreisen nach Island und Gronland. Petermann's 

Geographische Mittheilungen, xxii, 1876, p. 272. 
Rae (John, Dr.). Exploration of the Faroes and Iceland. Proceedings of the R. 

Geogr. Soc. of London, v, No. 2, 1861, pp. 80-90. 
Rafn (C. Charles). Notice sur I'ancienne g<5ographie de I'Islande et du Greenland. 

Bulletin de la Soc. de G6ogr., Paris, iii, 86r. 11, 1844, No. 9, pp. 188-194. 
Rammelsberg (C). Island, besonders in Bezug auf seine Vulkane und heissen Quel- 
len. L. Frorieps Fortschritte der Geographic und Naturgeschichte, Weimar, 

1847, II, pp. 241-253. 
Ueber die mineralogischen Gemengtheile der Laven, insbesondere der islandi- 

schen, im Vergleich mit den alteren Gebirgsarten und den Meteorsteinen. Zeit- 

schrift der Deutschen Geolog. Ges., Berlin, i, 1849, pp. 232-244. 
Rath (G. vom). Icelandic Volcanoes. Neues Jahrbuch f. Mineral., Heft i, pp. 52, 

53. Geolog. Record, 1878, p; 102. 
Ash-rain in Scandinavia, and Eruption in Iceland. Verb. nat. Ver. preuss. 

Rheinlande, Jahrg. xxxii, Sitz., pp. 137-144, 154-161. Geolog. Record, 1878, p. 

149. 
Reikiavtk. Pfennig-Magazin, Leipzig, vii, 1839, p. 28. 
Reise Beskrivelse til Island af en curious Liebhaber. Kbhvn., 1717. 8vo. 
Reise nach Island und Spitzbergen. Ausland, xxx, 1357, p. 763. 
Reisen in Island. Minerva, 1814, i, p. 358 ; ii, pp. 40, 245, 400. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 531 

R]ftMT (Ch.). L'Islande. (Reykjavik — Les Geysers — L'Hecla — Les mines de soufre de 

Krisuvic — Le Baera islandais — Le poney et le chien d'Islande). Kevue Scien- 

tifique, 14 Octob., 1882, pp. 485-496. 
Reusch (Hans H.). Den stovfyldte Sne. Naturen, 1881, p. 112. 
-• De nye Vulkaner paa Island. Naturen, 1877, pp. 145-152. (Bearbeidetefter: 

ludberetning om den af Professor Johnstrup foretagne Undersogelseareise paa 

Island i Sommeren 1876. Kbhvn., 1877.) 
RiCHE en soufre natif (Island). Bulletin de la Soc. de G6ogr. , Paris, i, s^r. iv, p. 179. 
RiCHTER (Geoeg Adolf). Land und Leute von Island. Mit den Ansichten : Aus- 

sicht auf der Hohe von Almaunagia, der Krater des Hekla, Kirche und Umgebung 

von Reykjablidar, die Berge von Hjaltadal, der Dyrafjord. Aus alien Weltthei- 

len, Leipzig, vi, 1875, pp. 106-114, 139-143, 252, 253. 
Robert (Eug^ke). In Voyage of "La Recherche." Gainard's Expedition scientif., 

Paris, 1840. 

G^ologie et Min6ralogie. Voyage de la Commission scientifique, &c. 

RoCKWOOD (Prof. C. G.). Notices of Recent American Earthquakes, No. 6. Amer. 

Journal of Sciences and Arts, 3d series, vol. xii, p. 25, for 1876. 
Roquette (M. de la). Notice sur I'Islande. Bulletin de la Soc. de G^ogr. de Paris, 

III, s^r. X, 1848, pp. 185-216. 
Rosenberg (C). Et Par Reisebilleder fra Island. Kbhvn., 1875. 
RussEL (Mich. ). Iceland, Greenland, and Faroe Islands. London, Nelson, 1862. 8vo. 
Saemundsen (Joen). Sandfaerdig Relation om det udi Island brsendende field. Haf- 

niaj, 1726. 4to. 

Relatio historico de monte Islandiae (an. 1724 d. 17 Maji et seq.) ignivomo, 

Krabla dicto, necnon de aliis vicimis minoribus moutibus, de terras motu toni- 
truis et ejectione cinerum. Hafnise, 1726. 4to. 

Saemundsson (J6n). Om det udi Island brsendende Fj eld KrafFa. Kbhvn., 1730. 4to. 

Sartorius von Waltershausek. (See Waltershausen. ) 

Schweitzer (Ph.). Bemerkungen zu Herrn Arpi's Kritik iiber Schweitzer : Island. 
Leipzig, 1885. Nordisk Revy, ii, 1884-'85, No. 15, pp. 470-473. 

Island. Land und Leute, Geschichte, Literatur und Sprache. Leipzig nnd 

Berlin, 1885. 

Schythe (J. C). Udvikling af Quaelluft i nogle varme kilder i Island. Kroger's 
Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, in, Kbhvn., 1840-'41, pp. 329-330. 

Hekla ogdens sidste Udbrud, 2 Sep., 1845. Med 10 pi., 1 Kart. Kbhvn., 1847, 

8vo. 

Sewall (William G.). "Iceland." Harper's Mag., xv, p. 754. 

Shepherd (C. W.). The Northwest Peninsula of Iceland; being the journal of a tour 
in Iceland in the spring and summer of 1862. 173 pp. mit 1 Karte. London, Long- 
man, 1867. Globus, Braunschweig, xx, 1871, pp. 129-134. 

SiGURDHSSON (PixL). Um ornefni i Rangjirplngi. (Safa til ^ogu Islands, ii.) 

Skyrslur um landshagi d Islandi. Kbhvn., 1865. 

Smaaskizzer fra en Islandsreise i Sommeren 1867, af Benedicte ; Ny Raekke. 250 pp. 
Kopenhagen, Host, 1870. 8vo. 

Smith (R. Angus). To Iceland in a Yacht. (Not published. Privately printed by Ed- 
monston & Douglas. (Edinburgh, May, 1873. 8vo.) 

Snorronis (John) [Snorresen]. Tractatus historico physicus de Agricultura Islan- 
dorum piscis tomporibus cum successu usitata postea exoleta et jam restaurata. 
Hafuiae, 1757. 8vo. 

SOchting : Islands Vulkane. Nach den neuesten Untersuchungen Ch. I. Forbes' bear- 
beitet. Zeitsch. f. allgeni. Erdkunde, Mai 1861, pp. 321-345. 

Stanley (Sir John Thomas). An account of the Hot Springs, near Rykium, in Ice- 
land (1791). Edinburgh Royal Society Trans., in, 1794, pp. 127-137. 

An account of the Hot Springs, near Hankadal, in Iceland, in 1792. Edin- 
burgh Royal Soc. Trans,, m, 1794, pp. 138-153. 

Account of the Hot Springs in Iceland, with an analysis of their waters. 1789. 



532 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Stkenstrup (Prof. Dr. Japetus). Zeniemes Reiser i Norden. (Sj^ flokkin a, vii.) 
Stephensen (Magnus). Island i det attende Aarhundrede. Kbhvn., 1808. Svo. 

Eptirmseli ^tj^ndu aldar. Vidhey, 1806. 8vo. 

Kort Beskrivelse over den nye Vulcans Ildsprudning i Vesterkaptafells.-Syssel 

paa Island i Aaret 1783. Kbhvn., 1785. Bvo. 

Ransokn Islands gyldandi laga nm legordsmdl. Vidhey, 1821. Svo. 

Skemtelig Vinagledi I. B. med Promemoria til allra myrkra manna og li6s- 



shatara £ Island!. Leir^rgordum, 1797. 8vo. 
Storm (G.). Minder fra en Islands fserd ; mitlllustr. Christiania, Cappeln, 1875. Svo. 
Stranch (^GIDIUS). Dissertatio chronographico-bistorica de "Islandia." Theodori 

Thorlaci, Wittenbergae, 1664. 4to ; 1670, 1690, Jena ; 1690. 4to. 
Streye (D.). Beskrivelse over deno Islandia. Kbhvn., 1859. 
Sulphur Mines in Iceland. Nature, London, x, 1874, p. 271. 
Symington (Andrew James). Pen and pencil sketches of Faroe and Iceland, with 

an a^jpendis containing translations from the Icelandic. 320 pp. London, Long- 
man, 1862. Svo. 
Taylor (Bayard). Egypt and Iceland, 1874. London, Low, 1874; New York, 

Putnam, 1874. 12mo. 
Terrell (O.). Bref om Island. Ofversigt af K. Sv. Vet. Akad. Forh., xiv, 1857, pp. 

325-332. 
Theorgilsis (Arius). De Islandia; Notis Andr. Busssei. Holmia;, 1733. 4to. 
THERMJ5 Islandici Logarnesenses. Th. Bartoliui Acta Medica, 1671-'72, p. 282. 
Thienemann (Fr. Aug. Ludw.) und Gunthers (G. B.). Reise im Norden von Eu- 

ropa, vorzUgllch in Island, in den Jahreu 1820-'21. 1. Theil: Naturhistorischer 

Theil, 2. Bd. Svo. Atlas in 4to. 2. Theil: Historischer Theil. 1. Bd. Leipzig, 

Reclam, 1824-'27. Svo. 
Thorlaeus [Thorlacius] (Theodori F.). Dissertatio historico-physico de ultima 

incendio montis Hecla. Hafnite, 1694. 4to. 
Thorlacius (Theodorus). Dissertatio chronographico-historico de Islandia. Wit- 

tebergse, 1666. 4to. 
Thoroddsen (Th.). Oversigt over de islandske Vulkaners Historic. Kjobenhavn, 

1882. 
Ed Besog ved M^vatn paa Island. Dansk Geographisk Selsk. Tidskrift, 1878. 

Bd. II, pp. 116-120. 

An account of volcanic eruptions and earthquakes which have taken place 

in Iceland within historical times. Geological Magazine, Loudon, 1880, vol. vii, 
pp. 458-467. 

Aper^u des Eruptions de volcans et des trembleraents de terre qui ont eu lieu 

en Islande pendant les temps historiques. Svo., 22 pp. 

Die vulkanischen Eruptionen und Erdbeben auf Island wahrend der ge- 

schichtlichen Zeit. Gaea, xix, 1883, pp. 464-470. 

De vulkaniske Udbrud paa Island i Aaret 1783 med en Tavle. Geografisk 

Tidskrift, 1879. 

Hoide maalingerpaa Island af Bjoru Gunlaugsson. Geografisk Tidskrift, 1879, 

pp. 126-127. 

Om de udebvede Strokninger paa Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, 1882, pp. 

24-28. 

En UdiJugt i det sydvestlige Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, 1882, pp. 135-139. 

Videnskabelig Uudersogelse af de vulkanske Udbrud i Island, Aar 1875. 



BudsTikken, Minneapolis, Minnesota, U. S. America, 1877, Nos. 26 and 28. 

— En Uudersogelse 1882 i det ostlige Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, vii, pp. 95- 
112, 129-140. 

— Vulkansk Udbrud paa Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, vii, p. 25. 

— Geographische Forschungen in Island. Petermann's Geographische Mitthei- 
lungen, 1884, XXX, p. 114. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 533 

Thoroddsen (Th.). Eine Untersuchung auf dem ostlichen Island im Jahre 1882. 
Die Natur, 34 Jalirg., Halle, 1885, pp. 6-7, 18-20, 31-32, 43-44, 54-56, 67-68,75-78, 
126-128, 139-141, 150-152, 159-162. 

Vulkanerne paa Reykjanes. Geol. Foren. Forhandl., Stockholm, vii, pp. 148- 

187. 

Geological exploration in Iceland. Nature, 1884, xxx, No. 770, 780, el seq. 

Untersucbungen in Odadahraun, 1884. Petermaun's Mitth., 1885. 

Losing Islands. O^'ersat af Amund Helland, Kristiania, 1883. 

Die Erforschuug des Innern von Island. Globus, Bd. 47, pp. 185-188. Peter- 
maun's Geogr. Mittb., 1885, witb a corrected map. 

Explorations of Iceland, described in : Geografisk Tidskrift, 1884 ; Petermann's 

geogr. Mittb., 1884, pp. 422-426, 1885, Globus, Bd. 47, pp. 185-188; Nature 
(Halle), xxx, pp. 780, 781 ; xxxi, 791 ; xxxiv, 1885. 

De vulkans Udbrud paa Island i Aaret 1783. Geografisk Tidskrift, in, 1879, 



4°, pp. 67-80. 
Thorsteinius (Benedictus). De eruptione ignis in monte Krafla et vicines prae- 
fecturis an. 1724 et seq. Hafiiiae, 1726 (Daniscb. Efterretning om den Jord- 
brand). 
Thorsteinius (MAGNtJs). Kelatio circa eruptionem ignis et magnam aquarum 
undam quse de monte Mirdabls Jokelen profluebat, editaperNicolaun Helvaderum, 
Hafnise, 1627. 
Thorsteinsson (Benedikt). Efterretninger om den Jordbrund, som 1724 og fol- 
gende Aar i Bjerget Krafla og deromkring bar grasseret. Kbbvn., 1726. De 2 
sidste Skrifter existere rimeligois ikke mere, i det mindste findes de ikke paa 
noget af de offentlige Bibliotbeker i Norden. De staa anmeldte i Loerde Tidender 
for 1726, pp. 87-89. 
TiTOW. Nacbricbten iiber Island. Bertucb, Neue allg. geograpb. Epbem., xii, 1823, 

pp. 341, 342. 
ToKKiLLi (Jonas) [J6n Torkilson]. Additamentum de Islandia. Tilgift som vi- 
dere Efterretning om Island. Angebangt an Jo Andersonli de Islandia Rela- 
tiouem. Hafuiae, 1748. 8vo. 
Travel by Umbra (Cbarles Cavendisb Clifford) in Iceland and Italy. Edinburgh, 

Edmonston & Douglas, 1865. 
Travels in Iceland. London, 1805. 8vo. 

Tribolet (M. F. de). Notes sur les rocbes et min^raux, recueillis en Islande et aux 
lies Faroer par M. le prof. Tb. de Eongemont. Bull. Soc. Sci. Nat. Neucb4tel, 
t. XI, cat. 1, pp. 7-12 [1877] ; Geolog. Record, 1878, p. 157. 
Troil (Uno von). Bref rorande en resa til Island, 1772. Upsala, 1777. 8vo. Med 
en taflar. 

Letters on Iceland, made during a voyage undertaken in the year 1772, by 

Joseph Banks, Esq., F. R. S., assisted by Dr. Solander, F. R. S., &c. London 
and Dublin, 1780. [Also translated into French by Dr. Lindbolm, Paris.] 

Letters regarding a voyage in Iceland in 1772. Upsala and Leipzig, 1779. 

(Gives a complete list of writers on Iceland from 1561 to 1776.) 

Letters on Iceland during a voyage in 1772, witb letters of Ibre and Bach on 

the Eflda, &c., and Bergmaun's Observations on the Lava. London, Richard- 
son, 1780. 8vo. 2d edit., 1780; 3d edit., 1783. 8vo. The whole revised and 
corrected by E. Mendes da Costa. Witb a map. Dublin, 1780. 8vo. 

Letters on Iceland. Pinkerton, l. * 

Briefe welcbe eine im Jahre 1772 nacb Island angestellte Reise betreffen. Aus 

dem Schwediscben von J. G. Pt. Moller. Mit Kpfr. Upsala, Schwederus, 1779. 
8vo. Leipzig, 1779. 
Reise durch Island. Mit 1 Karte von Island und 2 Kpfr. 2 Aufl., 1785. Biblio- 



thek der neuesten Reisebescbreibungen. Schneider, u. 
— Brieven betreft' eene reize na Ysland. Leyden, 1784. 



534 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

Trou, (Uno von). Lettres sur I'Mande. Trad, du Su6dois par Lmdholm. Aveo 

cartes et fig. Paris, Didot jeune, 1781. 8vo. 
Tromholt (Sophus). Breve fra Ultima Thule. Indtryk fra et Ophold paa Island. 

344 pp. 8vo. 
Islands Geysirterritorium i vore Dage. (Aftrykt, en Del forkortet, med Forps 

Tilladelse af hana Bog "Breve fra Ultima Thule.") Naturen, 9 Aarg., No. 8-9, 

Aug.-Sep., 18S5, p. 125. 
Tyndall (John). Ueber eiuige vulkanische Erscheinnngen in Island. Auslaud, 

XXVI, 1853, p. 839. 
On some of the Eruptive Phenomena of Iceland. Proceed. Roy. Inst, of Gr. 

Brit., June 3, 1853, voli. 
Udtog af Paulsen's Dagbog holden paa bans reise til og i Island fra 2 Juli til 7 Sept., 

1791 ; 1 Mai, 1792. Skrifter af Naturhist. Selskabet, n, Hefte 1, p. 222; Heft 2, 

p. 122; ui, Hefte 1, p. 157. 
Ueber Island. Ausland, xxxv, 1862, pp. 405-491. 
Ueber Island und den Hecla. Journal flir die neuesten Land-und Seereisen, lxlu, 

1829, pp. 69-76. 
UjyALVT (Ch. E. de). Le pays de Thul6. 16 pp. Paris, Leclerc, 1874. 8vo. 
Ultima Thule, or a summer in Iceland. By Richard F. Burton. London, 1875. 

Bvo. 2 vols. Also: Edinburgh, 1875. 
Van Guisen (N. L., jr.). A Holiday in Iceland, &c. London, 1879, 
Vatna Jokull. Nature, London, vol. x, 1874, p. 34. 

Vargas (Bedemer). Om vulkauiske Produkter paa Island. Kjobenhavn, 1817. 8vo. 
Verkrxjzen (T. a.). Dredging excursion to Iceland in June and July, 1872. An- 
nals and Magazine of Natural History for November, 1872. 
Vermessung von Island. Bertuch, Neue allg. geogr. Ephem., v, 1819, pp. 361-362. 
ViDALiN (Povel). Om Islands Opkomst, samt nogle andre af same Inhold, anvendt 

paa nservsBrende Tider. Med Kobbere. SorSe, 1768. 8vo. 
Visit to Iceland in the summer of 1857. Colburn's New Monthly Magazine, March, 

1858. 
Volcanic outbreaks in Iceland. Popular Science Monthly, vii, p. 630. 
Volcanic phenomena in Iceland. Nature (London), vol. xv, 1875, pp. 75, 76, 194, 

298, 446. 
Volcanoes of Iceland. Popular Science Monthly, u, p. 95. Nature, xi, p. 514 ; xvi, 

pp. 105-106. 
Vulkanische Asche in Skandinavien und vulkanischer Ausbruch auf Island. Gaea, 

XI, 1875, pp. 377-380. 
Vulkanische AusbkIjche auf Island und in Siidamerika. Mittheil. d. Wiener 

Geogr. Ges., xvi, 1873, p. 234-235. 
Vulkanische Verwustungen (Aschenregen) auf Island. Aus alien Welttheilen, 

Leipzig, VI, 1875, p. 318. 
Voyage en Islande et au Groenlande, ex6cut6 pendant les ann6es 1835-36, sur la cor- 
vette "La Recherche," commandde par Tr^houart, dans le but de d6couvrir les 

traces de "La Lilloise." Publi6 par ordre du roi sous la direction de P. Gainard. 

6 vols. , orn6s de vignettes. Accompagn^s de 3 atlas, contenant ensemble 250 

planches, dont 70 environ colonies. Histoire du voyage, p. G. Gainard. Phy- 
sique, p. V. Lottin. Min6ralogie, p. B. Robert. Histoire de I'Islande, p. X. 

Marmier, Paris, 1838-1842. Paris, 7 vols., 8vo, 2 atlas in fol., 1 album, 8vo, 1838- 

1851. • 
Voyage en Islande et au Mont Hdcla en 1827. Journal de Voyages, xxvni, 1828, pp. 

174-199. 
Walker (Robert). Note of temperature measurements in the Great Geysers of 

Iceland, Aug., 1874. Proc. R. Soc. Edinb., vol. vui, p. 514. 
Waller (S. E. ). Six weeks in the saddle. A painter's journey in Iceland. London, 

1874. 12mo. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 535 

Waltershausen (Sartorius von). Geologischer Atlas von Island mit Erlautcrim- 
. gen. 2. Bd., 7 and 60 pp. Gottiugen, 1853, Gr. Fol. und 4to. 

Ueber die vulkanischen Gesteine in Sicilien uud Island und ILre submarine 

Umbildung. XVI and 532 pp. Gottingen, Dietrich, 1853. 8vo. 

Pbysikalisch-geograpbische Skizze von Island, mit besonderer EUcksicht auf 

vulkanische Erscbeinungen. (Abgedruckt aus den Gottinger Studien, 142 pp. 
Gottingen, Vandenhoek u. Euprecbt, 1847. 8vo.) 

Tbe glaciei-s of Iceland. New Pbilos. Journal, Edinburg, 1848, April-October. 



Wallut (R.). Observations sur le magn^tisme terrestre en Islaude. Revue mari- 
time, Mai, 1884, t.xxxt, No. 272, pp. 387^00, 

Watts (Williaji liORD). Across tbe Vatna Jokull ; or scenes in Iceland. Being a 
description of hitberto unknown regions. London, 1876. 8vo. 

Journey across the Vatna J okull in the summer of 1875. Proceed. R. Geogr. 

Soc. London, xx, 1875, pp. 21-32. 

Travels in Iceland. Nature, xii, 1875, p. 453. 

Snioland ; or Iceland, its Jokulls and Fjalls. London, 1875. 8vo. 

On the Volcanic Geology of Iceland. Proceed. Geolog. Assoc, vol. iv, No. 

4, pp. 214-220. 

Iceland, its scenery and volcanic rocks. Journ. Soc. Arts, vol. XXIV, No. 

1210, pp. 169-175. Geol. Record, 1876, p. 121. 

On Iceland ; its physical aspects, characteristics, &c. 23d An. Rep. Brighton 

Nat. Hist. Soc. pp. 78-91. 

On the Vatna Jokull. " Eraser's Magazine," v. 90. n. s., v. 10. 8vo. Lon- 
don, Longmans, Green & Co., No, 60, Dec, 1874, pp. 693-705. 

In "Littell's Living Age," v. 124, 5th series, v. 9. 8vo. Boston, Littell & 



Gay, No. 1597, Jan. 16, 1875, pp. 175-184. 
WicHMAX (H.). Th. Thoroddsen's Reise durch Ostisland, 1882. Petermann's Geogr. 

Mitth., XXX, 1884. 
Winkler (G. G.). Island, der Bau seiner Gebirge und desseu geologische Bedeutung, 

303 pp. Mit 42 in den Text gedr. Holzschnitten. Nach eigenen Untersuchungen 

dargestellt. Miinchen, Gummi, 1863. 8vo. 
Island, seine Bewohner, Landesbildung und vulkanische Natnr. 320 pp. Mit 

Holzschnitten und 1 Karte von Island, Braunschweig, Westermann, 1861. 8vo. 

Geysir uud Strokkur, die islandischen Springquellen. Westermanu's Monats- 

hefte, October 1870. 

Ueber Islaud. Ausland, xxxiv, 1861, p. 1057. 

Der Siiden und Norden Islands. Westermanu's Jahrbuch, ix, 1861, pp. 219-222, 

Eine Reise nach Island. Die Siidkiiste von Island mit Abbildungeu. Wester- 



mann's Illustr. Deutsche Monatsbefte, vi, 1859, pp. 502-509. 

Wonders of Creation [Anon.]. A descriptive account of volcanoes and their phe- 
nomena, 1879, 

Yacht voyage to Iceland in 1853. A. Hall, London, 1854. 12mo. 

Zeilau (Lieutenant). Fox Expedition. 1860. 

Zeni (Nic. and Ant.). Discoveries on Island. 1380. (Purchasni.) 

Zeno (Nic. e Ant,) Dello scoprimeuto della Isola Eslanda. Ramusio, ii. 

ZiRKEL (Ferd.). Obsidian vom Hrafiitinnuhryggr in Island. Sitzungsber. d. math, 
uaturw. CI. d. Ak. d. Wiss, i, Wien, XLii, 1. Abth., pp. 267-268. 

Basaltglas von Reykir in Islaud. Sitzungsber. d. math, naturw. CI. d. Ak. d, 

Wiss. in Wien, xxii, 1. Abth., pp. 259-260. 

Mandelstein aus der Gegeud zwischen Reykjavik und Seljadalr m Island. 

Sitz. d. mathw. naturw. CI. d. Wiss. in Wien, xlii, 1. Abth., pp. 250-251. 

Trachyt vom Hofe Fagranes im Oxnadalr, Nord Island. Sitzungsb. d. math. 

naturw. CI. d. Ak. d. Wiss. in Wien, XLVii, 1. Abth., pp. 237-238. 

Quarzfiibrender Trachyt von der Baula in Island. Sitzungsb. d. math. 

naturw. CI. d. Ak. d. Wiss. in Wien, xuu, 1. Abth., pp. 243-244. 



536 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

ZiRKEL (Fred.). Lava vom Almenlngrhraun zwischen Reykjavik und Krisuvik, 
Island. Sitzuugsb. d. math, naturw. CI. d. Ak. d. Wiss. in Wien, XLii, 1. Abth., 
pp. 252-254. 

Pechstein von der Baula in Island. Sitzber. d. math, naturw. CI. d. Ak. d. 

Wiss. in Wien, xlvii, 1. Abth., pp. 257-259. 

De geognostiae Islandiae constitutione observationes. [Inaugural Disserta- 
tion.] Bonnae, 1861. Bvo. 

Vulkanische Asche die vom 29. auf denSO. Miirz 1875 inNorwegen fiel. Neues 



Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, 1875, p. 399. Om det samme C. W. Giimbol. Aus- 
land, 1875, pp. 466-469; ogA. E. Nordenskiold : Distant transport of volcanic dust. 
Woodward's Geolog. Magaz., 1876, pp. 292-297. 

3. Articles in journals, etc. 

Aarbog. Den Norske Turisten Forening, 1882, pp. 19-79 ; 1884, pp. 27-56. 

Aarbog for nord. Oldk. og Historie, 1882, pp. 57-124 (Kbhvn.). 

Acad^mie des Inscriptions. M^moires, xxxvix; M^m., p. 436. 

Acad6niie des Sciences. Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des stances. Tom. xxiii, 

pp. 771-773; 934-937; xxiv pp. 182-184. 
Acta Medica (Bartolini), 1671-1672, p. 282. 

Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien. Sitzungsber. d. math, naturw. CI., xu, pp. 
485-492; XLii 1. Abth., pp. 243-244; 252-254; 267-268; 250-251; 259-260; XLVii, 
1 Abth., pp. 237-238; 257-259. 
Allg. geogr. Ephemeriden, III, 1799, pp. 523 ; 553. 
Amer. Journal of Sciences and Arts, 3d series, vol. xii, 1876, p. 25. 
Annalen der Erdkunde, in, 1831, p. 428. 

Annals and Magazine of Natural History (Loudon) November, 1872. 
Annales de Chimie et Physique, Paris, xix, 1847, p. 470-484 ; XXXVii, 1853, pp. 215-300. 
Annales des Mines (Paris), xi, 1846, pp. 333-338. 
Annales des Voyages, Paris (Malte-Brun), xviii, 1812, pp. 273-314. 
Annales G6n. Sci.Phys., ii, 1819, pp. 205-207. 
Antiquarisk Tidskrift, 1861-'63, pp. 331-341. 
Archiv des Missions scientif., i, 1850, p. 587; 1882, pp. 101-109. 
Archiv for Mathemat. og Naturvidensk. (Christiauia). Band 7, pp. 200-232, 233-239; 

Band 9, pp. 69-154. 
Aus alien Welttheilen (Leipzig), iv. No. 2, 1872-1873, p. 62 ; vi, 1875, pp. 106-114, 

139-143, 252-253, 318. 
Ausland, xviii, 1845, p. 1276; xx, 1847, p. 368; xxvi, 1853, p. 839; xxvii, 1854, pp. 

784, 812, 1167, 1191, 1215; XXX, 1857, p. 763; xxxiv, 1861, pp. 144,1057; xxxv, 

1862, pp. 465, 491; xxxvi, 1863, p. 1035; XLi, 1868, p. 120; XLViil, 1875, pp. 

466-469; XLix, 1876, p. 680; Lii, 1879, pp. 243-247. 
Bartolini (Th.). Acta medica, 1671-'72, p. 282. 
Bentley's Miscellany, November, 1857. 
Bergens Tideude, July 4, 1873. 
Berlin. Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, I, 1849, pp. 232-244 ; vi, 1854, 

pp. 291-299; xxviii. Heft 2, pp. 203-216. 
Berlin. Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde. Monatsberichte. NeueFolge,iv, 1847, pp. 280-285. 
Berlin. Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde. Zeitschrift. Neue Folge, i, 1856, pp. 457-459. 
Berliner Gesellschaft naturforechender Freunde. Beschaftiguugen, ii, p. 536. 
Berlingske Tidende, Aug. 4, 1873. 
Bertuch. Neue allgem. geogr. Ephemeris, x, 1819, pp. 361-362; xi, 1822, pp. 407-426; 

XII, 1823, pp. 341-342; xiii, 1824, pp. 452-457; xvii, 1828, p. 198. 
Beschaftiguugen der Berliner Gesellschaft naturf. Freunde, il, p. 536. 
Bibliothek der neuesten Reisebeschreibungen (Schneider), ii, Bertuch, 1 Bd.,2 HiiLfte 

der I. Centurie. 
Brighton (England) Natural History Society, 28th Annual Report, pp. 78-91. 
British Association for the Advancement of Sciences, Report 1855, pp. 75-78. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 537 

Bruguatelli Giornale, iii, 18"20, pp. 191-194. 
Budstikken (Miuueapolis, U. S. A.), 1877, Nos. 20 and 28. 

Bulletiu de la Soc. de Gdographie, Paris, iii. Voyages, p. 33; I. b6t., iv, pp. 78, 179; 
I. s^r., xiii, p. 306; ui. s6t., ii, No. 9, pp. 188-194; m. s^r., x, pp. 185-216; v. 
s^r., vi, pp. 185-191. 
Biischiug. Nachrichten, Berlin, li, 1774, pp. 188-191; XU, 1784, p. 303; XV, 1788, 

pp. 4, 275. 
Chambers' Magazine, vol. IV. 
Colburu's New Monthly Mag., March, 1858. 

Conversations- nnd Reisebibliothek. (Leipzig, Lorck), Vi. Bd., 1855. 
Copenhagen. Naturhistor. Selskab. Skrifter, 1792. 

Copenhagen. Vidensk. Selskab. Oversigt over Forhandliuger, 1845. No. 7. 
Copenhagen. Vidensk. Selskab., Skrifter, 1805, IV, i, pp. 233-246. 
Cornhill Magazine. London, 1847, vol. xix, pp. 553-570. 
Dagbladet (Kopenhageu), 7 Decbr., 1884. 
Dagen, March 25, 1822 ; April 18, 1823. 
Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft, Berlin. Zeitschrift. l, 1849, pp. 232-244 ; VI. 1854, 

pp. 291-299; xxviii. Heft 2, pp. 203-216. 
Die Natur. 1883, ix. No. 120. 

Die wichtigsten Land- und Seereisen. (Leipzig, Fleisclier), 1821. 
Edinburgh Cabinet Library, vol. 28. 
Edinburgh New Philosophical Magazine. 1848, April-October; 1861, January, pp. 

6-55. 
Edinburgh Philosophical Journal. 1820, il, January-April, pp. 156-167. 
Edinburgh Review. 1876, No. 291, pp. 222-250. 
Edinburgh Royal Society Proceedings, vol. vin, p. 514. 
Edinburgh, Royal Society, Transactions, ii, 1794, pp. 127-137, 13&-153. 
Erdmann's Journal der Praktischen Chemie, xxx, 1843, pp. 385-400. 
Fiskeritidende for 1884, pp. 52,' 53. 

Forhandlinger, Copenhagen Videnskab. Selsk., 1845, No. 7. 
Forhandliuger, Kristiania Vidensk. Selsk., 1«77, No. 10, pp. 1-12. 
Fortschritte der Geographie und Naturgeschichte (Weimar), 1847, li, pp. 122-123, 241- 

253. 
Froriep Notizen, iv, 1847, coll. 225-230. 

Gaea, xi (1875), pp. 377-380, 501-505; xix (1883), pp. 464-470. 
Geografisk Tidskrift (Copenhagen), 1877, pp. 50-66; 1878, pp. 116-120; 1879, pp. 67- 

80, 126-127; 1880, pp. 61-63; 1881, p. 156; 1882, pp. 24-28, 71-83, 103-111, 135-139; 

1883, pp. 25, 95-112, 129-140 ; 1884, pp. 25, 87-95. 
Geographische Mittheilungen (Petermann), 1857, p. 8; 1861, p. 447; 1862, pp. 227, 

228; 1866, p. 470; 1870, p. 389; 1871, p. 77; 1876, pp. 272; 1884, pp. Ill, 422-426. 
Geographische Mittheilungen (Petermann), Ergiinzungsblatt, vi. No. 26, pp. 5,89; 

XV, No. 69, p. 87. 
Geographische Monatsberichte (Petermann), 1877, p. 316; 1878, p. 79; 1879, p. 436. 
Geographische Gesellschaft, Wien. Mittheilungen, xvi, 1873, pp. 213-223, 234-235, 

, 263-267. 
Geological Association (London) Proceedings, vol. iv. No. 4, pp. 214-220. 
Geological Magazine (London), 1880, vol. vii, pp. 458-467. 
Geological Record (London), 1875, pp. 81,121,122,169; 1876, p. 75; 1877, pp. 75, 76, 

175, 361. 
Geologische Reichsanstalt, Wien, Jabrbuch, v, 1854, p. 190; x, Anhang 12. 
German iae, 1879. 
Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde (Berlin). Monatsberichte. Neue Folge, iv, 1847, pp. 280- 

285. 
Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde (Berlin). Zeitschrift. Neue Folge, i, 1856, pp. 457-459. 
Glasgow Philos. Soc. Proceedings, iv, 1859, pp. 259-262; v, 1860-'61, pp. 10-16; 

XII, 1868, No. 2, pp. 137-138 ; xx, 1875, pp. 21-32. 



538 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Gilbert's Annalen, vol. xxiii. 

Globus (Braunschweig), xv, pp. 97-104 ; xvi, pp. 370-385 ; XX, pp. 129-134 ; xxi, p. 

3:21 ; XXVIII, pp. 16, 175 ; XLVii, pp. 185-188. 
Gottinger Studien. Abth. i, 1847, p. 323. 

Handlingar, Kong. Svenska Vetensk. Akademien, vn, 1 Hselfte, No. 1, 1867, pp. 1-60. 
Harper's Monthly Magazine, xv, pp. 754, 755; xxvi, pp. 145-162,289-311,448-467; 

xxxviu, pp. 466, 469. 
Hormayr's Archiv, 1815, No. 46. 
Illustrated Travels (ed. by Bates), xx, pp. 252-256 ; xxi, pp. 264-270 ; xxu, pp. 302- 

306. 
Isafold, V, pp. 30-31. 

Islend^ngr i, pp. 38-39, 45-47, 61-62, 67, 157 ; in, pp. 56-57, 64, 190. 
Islenzka Bokmentaf^lags Sk;fTslur og Reikniugar, 1874, pp. 18-22 ; 1875, pp. 19-24 ; 

1876, pp. 17-22; 1877, pp. 22-28; 1878, pp. 23-28 ; 1879, pp. 22-31 ; 1880, pp. 30- 

35 ; 1881, pp. 21-26 ; 1882, pp. 21-29 ; 1883, pp. 21-31. 
Islenzka Laerdoms lista felags, Ritbesz., ii, pp. 139,231 ; iii, p. 28 ; iv, p. 1 ; v, pp. 1, 

66; VI, pp. 20, 97; vu, pp. 1,194; viii, pp. 26,193; ix, p. 144; x, p. 61; xi, pp. 

107,193; XII, pp. 1,132; xiii. pp. 1,85,229; xiv, p. 227. 
Jameson's Philosophical Journal, vol. xxii, pp. 99-220. 

Jahrbuch der geologischen Reichsanstalt, Wien, v, 1854, p. 190, x, Anhang 12. 
Journal de I'Oise (France), Octob. 24, 1846. 

Journal des Voyages, vi, 1820, pp. 14-20 ; xxxviii, 1828, pp. 174-199. 
Journal fur die neuesten Land-und Seereisen, xx, 1815, p. 310 ; xxi, pp. 164, 197 ; IXIU, 

1829, pp. 69-76 ; lxxxiii, 1836, p. 89. 
Journal, London Society of Arts, vol. xxiv, No. 1210, pp. 169-175. 
Karsten's Archives, vn, 1834, pp. 421-525 ; ix, p. 247. 
Kiel'sches Magazin fur die Geschichte, «&c. (Vict. Heinze), i, p. 783. 
Kjobenhavspoeten, 1846, Nos. 111-116. 

K. D. Videnskab. Selsk. (Copenhagen), Skrifter, Deel. 4, 1805, p. 233. 
Klaustrpostrinn, 1818, p. 64 ; 1822, pp. 2-5, 32, 133-136, 152, 168, 202 ; 1823, pp. 30-31, 84, 

111, 12G-130, 144-146. 
Kristiania (Norway) Morgenbladet, April, 1875. 

Kristiauia (Norway) Vidensk. Selskab. Forhandlinger, 1877, No. 10, pp. 1-12. 
K. S. Vetenskaps Akademien (Stockholm), Handlingar vn, 1 Hiilfte, No. 1, 1876, pp. 

1-50. 
K. S. Vetenskaps Akademien (Stockholm), Ofversigt. Forhandl., xiv, 1857, pp. 325-332. 
L'Explorateur (Paris), n, 1875, pp. 245-247, 631. 
Liebig's Annalen, lxi, 1847, pp. 265-279 ; lxii, 1847, pp. 1-57 ; LXV, 1848, pp. 70-85; LXX, 

1849, pp. 290-294. 
L'Institut, Paris, i, Sect. sci. math., phys. et nat., 1867, No. 1768-1773, xxxv, pp. 376. 
Literaturblatt fiir germ. u. romanische Philologie, iv, i, pp. 1-5 (1883). 
Living Age. No. 885. 

London, Edinburgh, and Glasgow Philosoph. Mag. , xxx, pp. 391-409. 
London Geolog. Assoc. Proceedings, vol. iv. No. 4, pp. 214-220. 
London Royal Geographical Society, Proceedings, v, No. 2,1861, pp. 80-90, 725-728 ; 

XII, No. 1, 1868, p. 58. 
London Society of Arts, Journal, vol. xxiv. No. 1210, pp. 169-175. 
Lotos (Prag),xxv, 1875, pp. 95-96. 

Magaziu der merkw. neuen Reisebeschreibungen (Foerster), xxxiv und xxxv. 
Meddelelser paa den Naturhistoriske Forening i Kristiania, 1885, pp. 67-74. 
M6moires de I'Acad^mie des Inscriptions, xxxvii, p. 4.36. 
Minerva, 1814, i, p. 358 ; u, pp. 40, 245, 400. 
Mittheilungen der Wiener Geographischen Gesellschaft, xvi, 1873, pp. 213-223, 234- 

235, 203-267. 
Monatsberichte der Berliner Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde. Neue Folge, iv, 1847, pp. 280- 

285. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 539 

Morgenbladet (Kristiania), April, 1875. 

Naaukeurige Vereameling der reysen na Oosten (Leeuwarden), Bd. LVii, 1716. 

Nature (Loudon), iv, 1871, p. 202; vii, 1873, pp. 245, 470; x, 1874, pp. 34,271,279; xn, 

1875, pp. 75, 76, 194, 446, 453, 510; XVI, 1877, pp. 105-106 ; xx, 1879, Oct. 2 ; 1884, pp. 

37-38, Nov. 13. 
Naturen, 1877, pp. 145-152, 152-153 ; 1881, pp. 47, 112. 

Naturfor. Geeellschaft, Znrich, Vierteljahrechrift, xvi, 3 Heft, 1871, pp. 262-263. 
Naturhist. Forening (Kristiania), Medelelser, 1885, pp. 67-74. 
Naturhist. Selskab (Copenhagen), Skrifter, u, Hefte 1, p. 222 ; Hefte 2, p. 122 ; m, Hefte 

l,p. 157. 
Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, Copenhagen, m, 1840-41, pp. 329-330. 
Neue allg.geogr. Ephemeriden (Bertuch), v, 1819, pp. 361-362 ; xi, 1822, pp. 407-426 ; 

XII, 1823, pp. 341-342 ; xiii, 1824, pp. 452-457; xvii,p.l98. 
Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie, 1846, pp. 586-595 ; 1870, p. 529 ; 1875, p. 399. 
New Philosophical Journal, Edinburgh, 1848, April-October ; 1861, January, pp. 6-55. 
Nordhanfari,vi,pp.69,74; xi,p.52; xii.p.ll; xiv, pp. 12, 26, 33, 44, 58, 59, 81, 82, 106- 

108,111; XV, pp. 23, 67-68. 
Nordisk Reyy, ii, 1884, No. 14, pp. 441-444 ; No. 15, pp. 470-473, 473-475. 
Nordisk Tidskrift for Vetenskap och Konst (Kristiania), 1881, pp. 360-371. 
Nordhri, iii, p. 31. 
Nordisk Tidskrift for VeteuE-ap, Konst, och Industrie, utgifven af Lettersfedska 

Foreningen, 1883. 
Norske Turisten Forening Aarbog, 1882, pp. 19-79 ; (Kristiania), 1884, pp. 27-56. 
Nouvelles Annalee des Voyages (Paris), 1825, pp. 81-102 ; 1836, pp. 370-371 ; 1837, pp. 

239-347; 1860 (July), pp. 120-121; 1862 (August), pp. 246-247; (September),361-365. 
N^ F61agsrit, vi, 183-202, 202-210 ; vii, 234-241 ; Viii, 185-186. 
Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne (Kristiania), viii, 1855, pp. 72-116 ; xxi, 1 Heft, 

pp. 147-166. 
Nyt Tidskrift (Kristiania), 1882, Bd. i, p. 53-67, 158-173, 348-360 ; 1883, Bd. ii, pp. 44-58, 

257-267. 
Ofversigt af S. K. Vetensk. Akad. (Stockholm), Forhandl. , xiv, 1857, pp. 325-332. 
Oken Isis, 1820, 513-516. 

Oversigt over Copenhagen Videnskab. Selskab Forhandliuger, 1845, No. 7. 
Paris, Soci^t^ de G6ologie, Bulletins, iv, 1846-47, pp. 542-550 ; v, 1847-48, pp. 157-163. 
Paris, Soci6t6 de G^ographie, Bulletins, in, Voyages, p. 33 ; iv, 1846-47 pp. 542-550 ; 

V, 1847-48,, pp. 157-163 ; i. S6r., iv, pp. 78, 179; i.S6r., xiii, p. 306; m. S€i., n, 

No. 9, pp. 188-194 ; ill. S6r., x, pp. 185-216; V. S6r., vi, pp. 185-191. 
Petermann's Geographische Mittheilungen, 1857, p. 8; 1861, p. 447; 1862, pp. 227-228 ; 

1866, p. 470; 1870, p. 389; 1871, p. 77; 1876, p. 272; 1884, pp.111, 422-426. 

Ergiinzungsblatt, vi. No. 26, p. 5, 89 ; xv, No. 69, p. 87. 
Petermann's Geographische Monatsberichte, 1877, p. 316; 1878, p. 79; 1879, p. 436. 
Perthshire Advertiser, or Strathmore Journal, August 26, 1860. 
Pfennig-Magazin, Leipzig, i, 1834, p. 233 ; Vii, 1839, pp. 28, 133. 
Philosoph. Journal, Edinburg, ii, January- April, 1820, pp. 156-167. 
Philosoph. Magazine, vol. Ul, pp. 108, 109. 
Philosoph. Society of Glasgow, Proceedings, iv, 1859, pp. 259-262; v, 1860-61, pp. 

10-16 ; XII, 1868, No. 2, pp. 137-138 ; xx, 1875, pp. 21-32. 
Philosophical Transactions, 1670; 1674, pp. 11, 187,238; 1794, pp. 11, 95. 
Poggendorff's Annalen, lxxii, 1847, pp. 159-170; lxxix, 1850, pp. 310-353; 562-567, 

Lxx:s:iii, 1851, pp. 197-272. 
Popular Science Monthly, ii, p. 95 ; vii, p. 630 ; xvii, p. 710. 
Proceedings, London Geological Association, Vol. iv, No. 4, pp. 214-220. 
Proceedings, Philosophical Society of Glasgow, iv, 1859, pp. 259-262; v, 1860-'61, pp. 

10-16 ; XII, 1868, No. 2, pp. 137-138 ; xx, 1875, pp. 21-32, 
Proceedings, Royal Geographical Society of London, 1861, pp. 80-90 ; 1868, p. 58 ; 188^, 
pp. 725-728. 



540 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Proceedings, Royal Institute of Great Britain, June 3j 1853, pp. 329-335. 

Proceedings, Royal Society of Edingburgh, Vol. vni, p. 514. 

Quarterly Review (London), October, lS57. 

Reise und Landerbeschreibungen (Wiedemann), Lief. 8. 

Revue Maritime, May, 1884, lxxxt, No. 272, pp. 387-400. 

Revue Scieutifique, 14 Oct., 1882, pp. 485-496. 

Rigsdagstidendeu. Tillaeg B, Sp. 899-926, Kmhofu, 1877. 

Ritbesz. Islenzka Lserdoms-lista ffelags, I, p. 1 ; li, p. 139; iv, p. 1; V, p. 66; VI, pp. 

20, 97; VII, pp. 1, 194; viil, pp. 26, 193; IX, p. 144; xi, pp. 107, 193; Xli, pp. 

1, 132; XIII, pp. 85, 229; xiv, p. 227. 
Roma, Bolletino, Anno x, ser. ii, xiii, 1876, pp. 312-321. 
Royal Geograpbical Society (London), Proceedings, 1861, pp. 80-90; 1868, p. 58; 

1883, pp. 725-728. 
Royal Institution of Great Britain, Proceedings, June 3, 1853, pp. 329-335. 
Royal Society of Edinburg, Proceedings, vol. viii, p. .'')14 ; Transactions, u, 1794, pp. 

127-137, 138-153. 
Science for all (R. Brown), i series. 
Sitzungsbericbte der math, naturw. CI. der Akademie d. Wiss., Wien, xii, pp. 485- 

492; XLii, 1. Abth., pp. 243-244, 250-251, 252-254, 259-260, 267-268; XLVll, 1. 

Abth., pp. 237-238, 257-259. 
Skadinav. Naturf. Forhandlinger, in, 1842, pp. 501-504. 
Sky-rslur og Relkningar bins Islenzka Bdkmentaffelags, 1874, pp. 18-22; 1875, pp. 19- 

24; 1876, pp. 17-22; 1877, pp. 22-28; 1878, pp. 23-28; 1879, pp. 22-31; 1880, 

pp. 30-35; 1881, pp. 21-26; 1882, pp. 21-29; 1883, pp. 21-31. 
Skrifter, Copenhagen Naturhistoriske Selskab, il, Hefte 1, p. 222; Heft 2, p. 122 ; in, 

Hefte 1, p. 157. 
Skrifter, K. D. Videnskab. Selskab (Copenhagen), 1805, pp. 233-246 (Deel 4). 
Soci6t6 de Geographic, Paris, Bulletins, in, Voyages, p. 33 ; 1. S6r., xiii, p. 306; 1. S^r., 

IV, pp. 78, 179; in. S6r., ii. No, 9, pp. 188-194 ; iii. S^r., x, pp. 185-216; v. S^r., 

VI, pp. 185-191. 
Soci6t6 de G6ologie, Paris, Bulletin, IV, lS46-'47, pp. 542-550 ; V, 1847-'48, pp. 157-163. 
Society of Arts, London, Journal, vol. xxiv, No. 1210, pp. 169-175. 
Statstideuden, 29, March, 1822. 
Thj6dh61fr, xii, pp. 99-100; xvi, p. 57; XXiil, pp. 162-163, 187 ; xix, pp. 1-2, 9 ; XXV, 

pp. 45-46, 53, 61-62 ; xxvii, pp. 112-113. 
Tidskrift udgivet af den Letterstidske Forening, 1883. 
TillsBg til Rigsdagstidendeu. Kopenhagen, 1876-1877. 
Transactions, Royal Society of Edinburg, ll, 1794, pp. 127-137, 138-153. 
Verhandlungen der Geologischen Reichs-Anstalt, Wien, V, 1870, p. 287. 
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen, Skrifter, 1805, iv, I, pp. 233-246 ; Oversigt over 

Forhandlinger, 1845, No. 7. 
Videnskabs Selskab i Kristiania, Forhandlinger, 1877, No. 10, pp. 1-12. 
Vierteljahrschrift d. naturforsch. Gesellschaft, Ziirich, xvi, 3. Heft, 1871, pp. 262-263. 
Westermann's lUustrirte Monatshefte, VI, 1859, pp. 502-509. 
Westermann's Jahrbuch, IX, 1861, pp. 219-222. 

Wien, Akademie d. Wissensch. (Math. Naturw. Classe), Sitzungsber., xii, pp. 485- 
492; XLii, 1. Abth., pp. 243-244,252-254, 267-268, 250-251, 259-260; XLVii, 1. 
Abth., pp. 237-238, 257-259. 
Wien, Geographische Gesellschaft, Mittheilungen , xvi, 1873, pp. 212-223, 263-267. 
Wien, Geologische Reichsanstalt, Jahrbuch, v, 1854, p. 190 ; x, Anhang 12. 
Wohler und Liebig, Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, 1847, pp. 1-59; 1848, pp. 

13-28,70-85 (see also Liebig's Annalen). 
Woodward's Geological-Magazine, 1876, pp. 292-297. 
Zeitschrift, Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft (Berlin), i, 1849, pp. 232-244; vi, 1854, 

pp. 291-299 ; xxviii. Heft 2, pp. 203-209. 
Zeitschrift fiir allgemeine Erdkunde, Mai 1861, pp. 321-345. 



VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 541 

Zeitschrift der GeseJlachaft fur Erdkunde. Berlin. Neiie Folge, i, 1856, pp. 457-459. 
Zurich, Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Vierteljahreschrift, XVI, 3. Heft, 1871, pp. 
262-263. 

4. Maps and charts. 

Carte E^duite des cdtes d'Islande publi^e au D6p6t g^u6ral de la marine d'apr^s lea 

cartes rddigdes par le Centre Amiral de Lowenceru, directeur du D6p6t Royal des 

cartes marines de Danemark. 1 : 300,000, 6 feuilles, 1822, 1833. 
Cnopf. Insults Islandise delineatio, prout hsec soleuni mensurandi negatio sub ans- 

picils potentissimi Regis Daniae facto etc, a. 1734 demum. Militarem ad finem 

deducto debetur, divisse in quatuor partes, Islandice Fiordnng, quarum qujevis 

in suas minores regiunculas, Islandica Sislu, Danice Syssel dictas eubdividitur 1: 

1,200,000. Norimbergae, Homan Heredes, 1761. 
GUNNLAUGSSON (BjORN). Uppdr^ttr Islands, gjordr ad fyrirsogn Olafs Nikolas Olsens, 

er stydjast vid prihyrnlngamjil og strandamalingar par, sem hid konungliga 

Rentukammer hefir Mtid gjora og reikniid hfir Hans Jak. Scheel ; gefinn lit af enn 

Islenzka bdkmentaffelagi. 1: 480,000. Kpfrst. u. color. 4 Bl. u. 1 Bl. Text. 

Reykjavik og Kaupmannahofn, 1844. Leipzig, T. O. Weigel, spiitere Ausgabe, 

1849. Imp. fol. 
Uppdr^ttr Islands (carte d'Islande) gjordr ad fyrirsogn Olafs Nikolas Olsens 

(ex6cut6e sous la direction de M. O. N. Olsen) Gefinn lit af enu Islenzka b6kmen- 

taffelagi. (Publico par la Soci6t6 litt6raire d'Islande.) 1:960,000. Kfrst. u. 

color. Reykjavik og Kaupmannahofn, 1844. Leipzig, T. O. Weigel, spatere 

Ausgabe, 1849. Imp. fol. 
Iceland. Map of the Geyser. Scale 25.344 inches = 1 mile. Surveyed and drawn 

by J. C. Ardagh. 17 Aug., 1867. 
Iceland Island. Danish survey, 1845 ; corrections to 1869. 
Island, Kaart over Pollen i Skuttils fjord, 1865. 1 : 10,000. 
Island, med omgivende Dybder, 1871. Eng. Zoll=:20 Geogr. Meilen. 
Island und die Far-Oer-Iuseln. Kpfrst. u. color. Weimar, L. J. Compt., 1820 Roy. 

fol. 
Islande, c6te nord-ouest. Croqnis du mouillage d'Hogdal, dans le Dyre I^ord, West 

et de sediferes, Nr. 1897. Paris, D6p6t de la marine, 1862. 
Islande, c6te occidentale. Plan de la partie de la c6te sud du Brede Bust. V6ron, 

de I'Aulnois, Pillet, Maisse et de Libran. Nr. 1881. Paris, D6p6t de la marine, 

1862. 
Islande. Plan de Sukntuls Fjord et du Port de Pollen. Croquis du mouillage de Bil- 

dal dans Arnar Fjord. Paris, D6p6t de la marine, 1868. 
Islande, Spitzbergen, Isle de J. Mayen. Amsterdam, J. v. Keulen, 1689, color. 
Islandiae Tabula, Fernando Bertel^ exc, 1566. 
Kaart over Island. Efter C. N. Olsens og B. Guunlaugssons, Uppdr^ttr Islands 

(1849), Kopenbagen, Forlagsbureauet, 1866. 
Korter over den islandske Kyst, udgivne af Samme, 1788, 1822. 
Mackenzie (G. J.). SUdwestkiiste Islands, nach den besten Angaben u. Beobachtun- 

gen, nach Mercator's Projection entworfen. Kfrst. u. color. Weimar, L. J. 

Compt., 1814, gr.fol. 
Nyt Carte over Island forfattet ved Professor Erichsen og Professor Schouing, 1771. 
Nyt Carte over Island, von Erichsen und Olavius. 1780. 1 : 1,200,000. 
Petermann. Eine neue Karte der Diinischen Monarchic. 3. Island. 1: 6,000,000. 

Petermann's Geogr. Mitth., viii, 1862, p. 227. 
Reinecke (J. Chr. Matth.). Dojipelkarte von Island. Kpfrt. Weimar, L. J. Compt., 

1801, gr. 4to. 
Island, nach Murdochischer Projection und den besten astronom. Ortsbe- 

stimmungen von "Verdun de la Crenne, Pingr6 u. Bordv. Kupf. u. color. Weimar, 

1800, Landes Industrie Comptoir, 1804. Imp. fol. 
Voxende Kaart over Island og Fseroerne 1826. Rettet til 1859. 



GEOGRAPHY. 



By J. King Goodrich. 



GENERAL NOTES. 

The attention of the geographical world has been drawn away from 
the poles and centered upon the equatorial regions during the short 
period which has elapsed since the last report of the progress in geog- 
raphy was written. As a summary of the work done, the address of 
the Marquis of Lome, president of the Eoyal Geographical Society of 
Great Britain, at the opening of the session of 1885-'86, may be very 
properly alluded to at this point and commended as a careful and satis- 
factory epitome of what is of most interest. 

While lacking much of the harrowing element that was so distress- 
ingly conspicuous in the records of the " Jeannette" and Greely Arctic 
expeditions, and which appealed so strongly to our sympathy, the cur- 
rent record is by no means wanting in evidences of danger and disaster. 

The Aberdeen meeting of the Geography Section of the British Asso- 
ciation commenced on the 9th of September. The leading feature of 
this year's meeting was the prominence given to Indian subjects. Out 
of a total of thirty-four papers read, as many as eleven referred to the 
geography of India and the regions immediately adjoining it. Geo- 
graphical education attracted much attention, and the report of Mr. 
Keltic upon this subject elicited prolonged discussion. The importance 
of this branch of education is becoming more marked every day 5 com- 
munications on the subject have frequently appeared in the leading 
journals, which devote columns specially to geography. In order to 
test the condition of education in Denmark, the Government decided at 
the beginning of the year to have a test examination among the recruits 
of the army and navy, on the Belgian principle. The result of this ex- 
amination appears to have been very discreditable to education in Den- 
mark, and particularly to that in geography. One of the examiners, 
the Kev. J. L. Bang, of Langaa, has given some particulars of the re- 
sults, from which we quote : " The regiment selected was the Life Guards, 
the crack regiment of the Danish army, the recruits (282 in number) 
being drawn from every part of the country. Questions such as how 
many ells (the Danish measure) go to a mile, and the size of an acre of 

543 



544 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

land, were answered by a very few only. But as regards geography the 
answers were far worse. In answer to the question, 'What is the cap- 
ital of Sweden?' Paris, Trondhjem, St. Petersburg, Amsterdam, Lon- 
don, Madrid, Copenhagen, and even Constantinople were given." It is 
by no means certain that a similar examination in this country would 
develop results very much more satisfactory. 

Dr. Richard Lehmann, professorof geography in Munster University, 
has issued the first part of a work, which will extend to about 400 pages, 
on apparatus and methods in geographical teaching. Dr. Lehmann has 
given much attention to the subject of geographical education, and has 
himself, as teacher and Privatdocent in Halle, had great experience in 
teaching the subject, so that his work when completed is sure to prove 
of real service. 

An exhibition of maps, atlases, reliefs, globes, and other apparatus 
used in geographical education, collected from the jirincipal establish- 
ments and institutions in England and on the continent of Europe, was 
opened in London on the 9th of December, 1885, by the president of the 
Eoyal Geographical Society, the Marquis of Lome, and will continue 
to the 31st of January, 1886. The programme includes lectures and 
discussions, and the attendance and interest confirm the judgment of the 
promoters of the scheme. 

The geographical subject proposed this year by the French Academy 
of Inscriptions for the Prix Bordin is "A critical examination of the 
geography of Strabo." According to the terms laid down by the Acad- 
emy, competitors are (1) to give the history of the text of the work; (2) 
to characterize the language of Strabo with reference to that of con- 
temporary Greek writers, such as Diodorus Siculus, and Dionysius of 
Halicarnassus; (3) to distinguish the information collected by direct ob- 
servation of places and that drawn by him from his predecessors ; (4) 
to express definite conclusions on his critical method in using various 
documents. The papers should be in the hands of the secretary of 
the institute not later than December 31, 1886. 

It was stated in the early part of the year that the King of the Bel- 
gians was conferring with M. Martinie, president of the French Geo- 
graphical Society, on the subject of the formation of an International 
Geographical Society. Though nothing definite seems to have come of 
this conference, it is to be hoped that such a society will be formed. 
One of the best arguments in its favor is that through its instrumen- 
tality combined action could be had on the system of orthography for 
native names of places. Taking into consideration the present want of 
such a system, and the consequent confusion and variety that exist in 
the mode of spelling in English maps, the council of the Royal Geo- 
graphical Society has adopted the following rules for such geographical 
names as are not (in the countries to which they belong) written in the 
Roman character. The rules are identical with those adopted for the 



GEOGRAPHY. 545 

Admiralty charts, and will henceforth be used in all publications of the 
society. 

1. No change will be made in the orthography of foreign names in 
countries which use Eomau letters : thus Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch, 
&c., names will be spelt as by the respective nations. 

2. Neither will any change be made in the spelling of such names in 
languages which are not written in Roman character as have become 
by long usage familiar to English readers ; thus Calcutta, Cutch, Cele- 
bes, Mecca, &c., will be retained in their present form. 

3. The true sound of the word as locally pronounced will be taken as 
the basis of the spelling. 

4. An approximation, however, to the sound is alone aimed at. A 
system which would attempt to represent the more delicate iniiections 
of sound and accent would be so complicated as only to defeat itself. 
Those who desire a more accurate pronunciation of the written name 
must learn it on the spot by a study of local accent and peculiarities. 

5. The broad features of the system are that vowels are pronounced 
as in Italian, and consonants as in English. 

6. One accent only is used, the acute, to denote the syllable on which 
stress is laid. This is very important, as the sounds of many names are 
entirely altered by the misplacement of this stress. 

7. Every letter is pronounced. When two vowels come together each 
one is sounded, though the result when spoken quickly is sometimes 
scarcely to be distinguished from a single sound, as in ai, au, ei. 

8. [East] Indian nagies are accepted as spfelt in Hunter's Gazetteer. 
On the 11th of September occurred the centenary of the foundation 

of the well-known geographical establishment of Justus Perthes, of Gotha. 
The committee of the Geography Section of the British Association, 
which was in session at Aberdeen at the time, sent a telegram of hearty 
congratulation and good wishes for the future to the head of the estab- 
lishment. All the professors of geography at the German universities 
united in presenting to the firm a beautifully illuminated address, ex- 
pressing their sense of the services rendered to geography by the firm 
during its long career. A handsome quarto volume has also been issued 
from Gotha for i^rivate circulation, giving a very interesting sketch of the 
I)rogressof the establishment under its various heads, brief biographies of 
the famous cartographers connected with it, and notes on the various 
great works in geography which it has produced. The work contains nu- 
merous portraits both of the partners and cartographers of the past. The 
founder of the firm was Johann Georg Justus Perthes, who was born at 
Rudolstadt, September 11, 1749, his father being phjsician to the Prince 
of Kudolstadt. When the firm was first established in Gotha in 1785, 
its publications M'ere of a general character. In 1809 the great Hand- 
Atlas iiher alle hekannte Lander des Erdhodens, by Professor Heusin- 
ger, of Dresden, was published, with twenty-four maps in copper plate. 
Under the second chief of the firm, Wilhelm Perthes, 181G-'53, the 
H. Mis. 15 35 



546 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR '1885. 

Gotha establishment rapidly assumed the special geographical and car- 
tographical character it has ever since possessed. Under him the first 
part of the celebrated hand atlas of Adolf Stieler was published in 1817, 
which since then has continued to be issued in an unbroken series of 
editions. To Wilhelm succeeded in 1853 Bernhard Perthes, who, how- 
ever, was cut off in 1857, leaving a jjosthumous son, the present head 
of the Gotha establishment. The successive chiefs gathered round them 
in successive years all the best geographical talent in Germany, includ- 
ing such names as those of Stieler, Berghaus, Sydow, Spruner, Bret. 
Schneider, Petermann, Behm, Wagner, Supan, Hassenstein. Through 
the Geographische Mittheilungen established by Petermann, the Go- 
tha establishment has gradually become the receptacle for geographical 
information from all parts of the earth, information which is being con- 
stantly put on record and given to the world in the form of those ac- 
curate and beautiful maps with which all geograj)hers are familiar. It 
is to be hoped that long continued prosperity is in store for a house 
which has done such admirable service in the past to geographical sci- 
ence. 

The recent colonial acquisitions by the various European nations has 
called forth a number of excellent papers on the subject. Among the 
best is that of Colonel Sir Charles H. IsTugent, K. C. B., which was 
published in a recent issue of the Journal of the Eoyal United Service 
Institution. According to the latest statistics, England has 65 square 
miles of colony to the square mile of her own area ; Holland, 54 ; 
Portugal, 20; Denmark, 6-80; France, 1-90; an^ Spain, 0-86 square 
miles. The area of the British colonies is nearly 8,000,000 square miles, 
rather less than the area of the Eussian Empire, including Siberia and 
Central Asia ; but if the area of the native feudatory states in India 
be added, amounting to 509,284 square miles, over which England exer- 
cises as great control as Eussia does over much of the territory under 
its sway, together with that of the United Kingdom itself, 120,757 
square miles, then the area of the British Empire exceeds that of the 
Eussian Empire ; and it covers within a fraction of one-sixth of the 
whole land area of the globe. The recently absorbed territory of the 
ex-King Thebaw is not included in this epitome. 

Two new prizes have been added to those which the Geographical 
Society of Paris is now in a position to award. One is that of M. J. B. 
Morot, who bequeathed a sum of 2,000 francs, the interest of which is to 
be given annually to the French navigator or traveller who should in 
the course of the year have approached nearest to the North Pole ; and 
the other that of M. Felix Fournier, who left 50,000 francs to found an 
annual prize " with the object of rewarding the best geographical work, 
either maps or books, published during the year." While the former 
will hardly be considered a special incentive to braving the hardships 
of Arctic travel, the latter will undoubtedly stimulate to extra effort. 

The war ministers of France, Germany, and Italy have recently been 



GEOGRAPHY. 547 

attentively exauiiuiug geographical maps in relief, constructed on a 
system of which M. de Mendouca, a Portuguese councilor of state, presi- 
dent of the Banco Lusitano, possesses the patent and is the promulgator. 
These relief maps are stated to combine the advantages generally ad- 
mitted to be possessed by relief maps and the convenience and accuracy 
of maps on flat surfaces. This new method rapidly produces by a chem- 
ical and mechanical process plane maps with the curves and altitudes 
in relief, so represented as to correspond absolutely with the elevations 
established by accurate observations. These maps are drawn on com- 
paratively thin paper 5 can be rolled up and placed in the narrowest 
case, so that they are very light and portable, and are not injured by 
water. 

The editor of Science, under date of December 4, 1885, called attention 
to a curious instance of persistency of error in map-making. Many 
years ago an army expedition traversed the White Eiver region of Colo- 
rado, going from'Fort Bridger, Wyoming, to old Fort Massachusetts, 
Colorado. In this neighborhood are "bad lands," eroded into curious 
forms, which naturally suggest a ruined city; the commander of the 
expedition gave the locality the name of Goblin City, which name ap- 
peared on his map. The maj)-makers, in their haste to fill up the blanks 
in this unsettled region, jumped to the conclusion that this was a veri- 
table settlement, and gave it a place on their maps — a place which it 
has ever since retained. Not only have the commercial map-makers, 
almost without exception, fallen into this error, but such authorities as 
the United States Engineer Office and General Land Office have adopted 
it. The name has however been gradually changed from Goblin to 
Goldin, and thence to Golden City; while more than one enterprising 
map-maker — reasoning probably that a city cannot exist without means 
of communicating with other settlements, has constructed on paper a 
road down the White Eiver to it. It is scarcely necessary to add that 
there is not and never was a city in this neighborhood. Continuing his 
very apposite comments on careless map-making, the same editor, in a 
more recent issue, is inclined to think that if demand begets supply, 
there must be a very limited demand for good maps in this country. 
And any geographer who has had occasion to use trade maps of com- 
paratively new regions must frequently have been sadly embarrassed 
by the apparent carelessness in compiling them. 

Heinrich Entz and August Mer have recently independently studied 
the voyage of Hanno, the Carthaginian. Both agree that its termina- 
tion was at the island of Fernando Po, in the Bight of Biafra, called by 
Hanno the Isle of Gorillas. The colony of Thymaterion is identified by 
them, as by most authors, with the town of Mazaghan, and the promon- 
tory of S0I06 with Cape Cantiu. The river Lixus is regarded by Mer 
as the Senegal, for weighty reasons, though Entz and others have 
favored the Wadi Draa, much farther south Hanno's island of Cern6 
was probably Goree, and his Western Horn (or Bay) was the Bight of 



548 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

Benin. Much weight attaches to the opinion of M. Mer, who is a retired 
naval officer of forty years' experience, including three years of cruis- 
ing between the equator and Gibraltar, on the west coast of Africa. 

A catalogue of the i)rinted maps, plans, and charts in the British 
Museum has been prepared by Professor Douglas, and will be issued 
in two large volumes. 

AFRICA. 

¥. S. Arnot has sent to the Koyal Geographical Society a sketch map 
of his route from Shoshong to Bih6. He followed the Zambesi from 
his point of crossing, a little above Victoria Falls, to Lialui, from which 
he proceeded west-northwest to the great plateau on which Bih6 is 
situated. 

The route from Benguela to the mission village of Bih6 has been ap- 
proximately surveyed by the Eev. William E. Fay. The sketch maps 
cover an area 60 miles wide, extending over four degrees of longitude. 
The first human habitations met with are at the eastern foot of the 
coast range. 

According to J. M. Cook, wha has recently returned from Dongola, 
it appears that the cataracts of the Nile are not correctly placed upon 
the map. The so-called third cataract at Hannek is no cataract at all, 
only a very small riapid. Between the second and so-called third cataract 
four or five cataracts occur, and these explain the delay in the concen- 
tration of the British troops at Dongola. From Sarras to Sakarmatta 
(74 miles) the rise was 450 feet. 

The map of Africa, on a scale of 27 geograi)hical miles to the inch, in 
course of publication by the French D6pot de la Guerre, will consist of 
sixty sheets. Twenty-four of these have been published, 18 of West and 
Central Africa, 6 of South Africa and Cape Colony. Sheet number 9 
shows the Canaries and the sterile country called by Dr. Barth "Tiris 
el Ferar," or the country of deep wells. Sheet No. 10 gives the western 
half of the Sahara, and shows the routes of travellers, with many notes 
on the inhabitants, nature of the country, and position of the oases and 
wells; and Sheet No. 11 has a portion of the Ahaggar region, of which 
little is really known, and the better-known Terab oasis. 

M. Giraud has finally been compelled to desis t from his attempted 
explorations. His men deserted him, retaining the French flag and 
Chassepot rifles, and turned highwaymen on their way back to Zanzi- 
bar, where they were cast into prison by the French consul. 

The results of Dr. von Wilhelm Joest's circumnavigation of Africa 
are of ethnographic rather than geographic interest, since he scarcely left 
the coast at all, and when he did penetrate into the interior it was in 
such well-known places as the Orange Free State and Zululand. Still, 
what he did was well done, and several advantageous map corrections 
can be made from his notes. 

A work of interest to the philologist, geographer, and anthropologist 
is that of rAbb6 Pierre Boucbe on the Slave Coast and Dahomey. 



GEOGRAPHY. 549 

The African travellers Juncken and Casati have arrived at Lado, an 
Egyptian military station on the Bahr-el-Jebel. They were exploring 
the Nyam-Nyani district, between the tributaries of the Nile and the 
Upper Congo, and as nothing had been heard of them for a long time, 
it was feared the Mahdi had cut oflt" their retreat. 

Mr, Henry E. O'Neill has taken great pains to ascertain the longitude 
of Blantyre, and his results have been accepted by the Royal Geographi- 
cal Society. After careful computatiou, and making choice of such ob- 
servations as from their nature were best calculated to eliminate pos- 
sible errors of observation, the longitude of Blantyre has been fixed at 
350 3' 34" east of Greenwich, thus differing 7' 24" from the previously 
accepted i)osition, which was 34° 50' 30" east. Blantyre is now reck- 
oned as a secondary meridian. Mr. O'Neill on his journey from Quilli- 
mane to Blantyre availed himself of the opportunity afforded by an en- 
forced delay on the banks of the Zambesi to study the action of that river. 
He is led to speculate on the probable change in the physical and po- 
litical geography of that part of Africa which will result from a continu- 
ation of the wearing away of the banks of the Zambesi ; for if a perma- 
nent connection be established between the Zambesi and Quaqua, and a 
large proi>ortion of the volume of water now carried to the sea by the 
Kongone River and other smaller branches to the southward enters the 
Quillimane River, the effect will undoubtedly be to block the southerly 
channels by the precipitation nearer shore of the earth particles carried 
down by the river. And on the other hand the Quillimane River would 
be deepened by the greater " scouring " force of the larger volume of 
water carried down by it. The connection mentioned is now made in- 
termittently over the low flat country between the Zambesi and Qua- 
qua at high water. Mr. O'Neill draws attention to the neglected port 
of Nakala, in Fernao Veloso Bay, north of Mozambique. It has numer- 
ous good anchorages, and offers magnificent conditions for the founding 
of a colony. Nakala is a deep inlet forming a southern prolongation of 
Fernao Veloso Bay. 

M. Coillard, accompanied by M. Middleton, has accomplished his 
journey up the valley of the Zambesi to visit Akufuna, the King of the 
Ba-rotse, and has been received with great kindness. The authority of 
the King is not very great ; his minister Mataga appears to be master of 
everything, but he has had several rebellions to put down. 

In the July portion of Petermann's Mittheilungen, Professor Ratzel 
seeks to show how misleading it is to color the map of Africa with def- 
inite political boundaries. His paper is accompanied by a double map 
of Africa. In one i>art the continent is colored according to the pre- 
vailing occupation, in the second according to the people who form 
-states. 

For the purpose of gaining information for France as to what was 
occurring in the vicinity of her Algerine possessions, M. Charles de 
Foucauld accomplished a most remarkable journey of exploration in 



550 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

Morocco during- 1883 and 1884. Having renounced his future prospects 
in the military career, he disguised himself in the costume of a Jew, in 
spite of the antipathy of the natives to persons of that religion. This 
particular disguise enabled him to conceal his barometer and sextant 
and make his observations under the long veil with which the Jew 
covers himself during prayer. Deprived of all comforts, without 
servants, without an animal upon which to ride, without tent or 
bed, and almost without baggage, he travelled and worked during 
eleven months among these people who had more than once before 
unmasked similar attemj)ts and inflicted upon the unfortunate in- 
dividual the punishment which the crime appeared to them to de- 
serve, viz, death. To the 7,G00 miles of road marked out with 
but few determinations of latitude and still fewer points of longi- 
tude, which cartographers had at their disposal in 1883, M. de Fou- 
cauid added 1,400 miles of new ground besides revising and perfecting 
in the course of his journey the work of his predecessors. His travels 
occupied from the 20th of June, 1883, to the 23d of May, 1884. He 
traversed the great Atlas range at several new points, of which he had 
determined the altitude, besides having journeyed for 185 miles along 
the base of the range, rectifying and simplifying by fresh information 
the orography of the country. Thanks to him, we now know that from 
31 miles on the north and 103 miles on the south this commanding- 
range is flanked by parallel lines of elevation, which, as far as our maps 
were concerned, is quite a revelation. We learn from M. de Foucauld 
that there is in the north a chain of mountains about 185 miles in length, 
which bears the names of Djebel-Ait-Seri and Djebel-Beni-Uaghain. In 
the south there is, first of aU, the Little Atlas (the Anti- Atlas on the 
map of Lenz), and still farther south the strange outline of the Djebel- 
Bani range, the name of which we know fr«m the Kabbi Mardoch^e, 
and which Lenz crossed, but without identifying it. This journey, ex- 
tending over five days to the south of Meknas, was accomplished by M. 
de Foucauld in the midst of warlike peoples and marauding tribes. 
In the month of December, 1883, the traveller touched the Uadi Dhra'a 
to the south of Tattas. " This river," he says, '' the bed of which is 
nearly 24 miles in breadth, is absolutely dry, except during the melting 
of the snow and the seasons of continuous rain." Later on he again 
saw the river farther to the northeast, in the district of Mezquita, 
" where this same river, broad and with uninterrupted stream, flows 
through plantations of date palms." The itinerary of M. de Foucauld 
places that part of the course of the Uadi Dhra'a, as indicated on Dr. 
Eohlfs map, quite one degree farther west. This important correc- 
tion should be utilized to revise the itinerary of the German traveller. 
Finally, the accurate information obtained literally revolutionizes our 
previous geographical and political knowledge of Morocco. 

The death of King Mtesa is confirmed, but it is believed that his son 



GEOGRAPHY. 551 

1 

will prove more friendly to civilization than the father. Miramba is also 

dead. 

Dr. A. Fischer's brochure, 3fe1ir Licht im dunkeln Weltteil, reviewed 
in the November issue of the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical 
Society, contains a large amount of statistical information, through 
the midst of which much valuable geographical knowledge is inter- 
woven. 

Lieut. Victor Giraud, of the French navy, has given us (see Proceed- 
ings Royal Geographical Society, September) a delineation of Lake Bang- 
weolo, which differs widely from that first published by Dr. Livingston, 
as a comparison of his sketch with the society's map of Eastern Equa- 
torial Africa will show. We are indebted to the same officer for having 
traced the Luapula from where it issues from the lake, as far as Moero 
Mkata. Equally interesting is the information brought home by Herr 
Reichard from the copper country of Katanga and the Kingdom of Msiri, 
regions hitherto known to us only from the vague reports of Portuguese 
traders or natives. Lieutenant Giraud left Daro-es- Satam on the 19th 
of December, 1882. Crossing in succession U-zaramo, Khutu, U-sagara, 
U-hehe, U-bena, and the Livingston Mountains, by routes differing in 
many jilaces from those followed by his predecessors, he reached the north- 
ern extremity of Lake Nyassa, and thence ascended to Kiwanda on the 
" Stevenson road." He then turned off toward the southwest and trav- 
elling over a wide plain, entered U-emba, the country of B-emba, whose 
chief is Kitim Kuru, by far the most powerful ruler whom the explorer 
met with. On reaching Zapana, Lieutenant Giraud sent his caravan on to 
Kazembe'stown, whilst proceeding himself to the shores of Lake Bang- 
weolo. The lake, according to this explorer, consists of a sheet of open 
water in the north, apparently nowhere more than 20 feet in depth, and 
of a vast swamp. Kisi, the most elevated island, only rises to a height 
of 80 feet. The Luapula leaves the lake at Kawende Point. The river 
there is about 300 feet wide and 15 feet deep, its course being well de- 
fined between walls of gigantic rushes. After about a fortnight spent 
on the river and in forcing his way through a lagoon at the back of it, 
Lieutenant Giraud's progress was stopped by an "army" sent against 
him by Mere-Mere, chief of Ba-ussi. He was compelled to surrender ; but 
after remaining a prisoner for some time he succeeded in escaping, made 
his vay through the country of the hostile Wa-Kisinga, and following 
the Luapula for some distance, he at length rejoined his caravan in 
Kazembe's town. Eventually he reached lende on the Taganyika. 

Dr. Bohm and Herr Reichard left the Belgian station of Mpala, on 
the Tanganyika, on the 1st of September, 1883, and on September 27 
they reached the Luapula, where that river is 500 feet wide, but not 
navigable, owing to rapids. They crossed into the kingdom of a power- 
ful chief, named Msiri, who subjected them to vexatious annoyances, 
and prevented their progress until at last Dr. Bohm died on March 27, 
1884, after ten days' suffering. Soon afterward Herr Reichard was per- 



552 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

mittecl to start for Katanga, wliicli lie reached on May 27, and visited 
the two copper mines, which he found to be exceedingly rich. His at- 
tempt to trace the Liifira to its source was frustrated by the hostile 
attitude of the Wa ramba, and he was compelled to turn back on June 
2, when within a few days only of his goal. Owing to the hostile atti- 
tude of Msiri, and the annoyance consequent thereon, the valuable col- 
lections made by Dr. Bohm had to be abandoned. On November 6, 
1884, the Luapula was crossed once more, and after another long march 
through a hostile country the hospitable station of Mpala was reached 
again on November 30, 1884. According to Herr Eeichard the Lualaba 
is the real head-stream of the Congo. Where he saw that river, a short 
distance above the Upembe Lake, it is 1,000 to 1,500 feet wide, and the 
natives assert that it can be navigated as far as Manymma. The Lua- 
pula, on the other hand, has a width of only 500 feet, and forms numer- 
ous rapids in its course through the Mitumba Mountains. The Lufira, 
where crossed, was only 150 to 200 feet wide. It forms two waterfalls, 
one in the salt plain of Muacha, and another, Juo, at the head of the 
gorge through the Viano Mountains. The Juo falls are 80 feet high, 
the breadth of the river being 330 feet. 

The two Portuguese explorers, Captain Capello and Commander Ivens, 
who started last year upon an expedition across Africa, eventually 
reached Cape Town after a most adventurous journey. They subse- 
quently left for Mossamedes, and returned to Europe via the Congo. 
They reached Lisbon on the 17th of September, where they were re- 
ceived by the King, and welcomed by an enthusiastic demonstration of 
their countrymen. They have traversed a region which no European 
had ever set foot in. Leaving Mossamedes in March, 1884, with an es- 
cort of one hundred and twenty men recruited along the coast between 
that place and St. Paul de Loando, they reached Quillimane, upon the 
eastern coast, to the south of Mozambique, in May, 1885, after having 
discovered the watershed whence the rivers of Central Africa flow north 
and east towards the sea. They travelled over 4,500 miles of territory, 
3,000 miles of which were previously unexplored, and they are said to 
have discovered the sources of the Lualaba, an affluent of the Congo 
(which has been so frequently referred to in recent geographical discus- 
sions), as well as those of the Luapula and Chambeze, the upper waters 
of the Congo. They also visited the copper region of the Yaranganga 
district, situated between the Lualaba and the Luapula Eivers. Messrs. 
Capello and Ivens found the tse-tse fly very abundant; sixteen of the 
party died from their bites, without counting cattle and hunting dogs. 
They lost, all told, sixty-two men in fifteen months, and were almost 
exhausted when they reached Fet6. (See Proceedings of Eoyal Geo- , 
graphical Society, December, 1885.) 

Mr. J. T. Last left England on the 2d of September, on his way to 
Zanzibar, where he will equip his party for the expedition in which he is 
engaged under the auspices of the Eoyal Geograi)hical Society. He will 



GEOGKAPHY. 553 

proceed to the confluence ot the Eovuma and Lujendi Kivers, fix the 
longitude of the junction, and will then establish himself awhile in the 
Namuli Hills. After a study of that region, Mr. Last will enter the 
valley of the Likuga, follow it to the coast, and then follow the coast 
to Quillimane or Angoche. 

In a report to the British foreign office, by Mr. Laurence Goodrich, 
Her Britannic Majesty's acting consul for the Nyasse district, dated Ban- 
daw6. Lake Nyassa, June 1, 1885, he describes a recent visit to the 
country on the west of the lake. He refers principally to the territory 
of Muazi, which was visited by Livingston. During his stay at Kasungo, 
Muazi's town, 130 miles SSW. of Baudaw6, the chief died and was 
succeeded by his nephew Katame. Mr. Goodrich vv as well received there, 
the natives having that respect for the English which is always to be found 
where Livingston has been the only previous white visitor. The chief 
object of the visit was to inquire into and endeavor to wean the chiefs 
from encouraging the slave trade. The country he passed through be- 
tween Bandawe and Kasungo he found entirely uninhabited, though 
abounding in game of all kinds. Kasungo is situated in the center of a 
large treeless plain, 2,258 feet above the level of Lake Nyassa, the houses 
being built around a curious conical-shaped hill 900 feet above the plain. 
The chiefs interviewed were anxious to see English traders settled in 
the country. Muazi's country is known as the Marumba country, and 
the people are Wanyasse. Here a very large stock of ivory is to be 
bought — according to Mr. Goodrich, Katame offered to sell him a hun- 
dred tusks. The soil (he states) is good, and adapted for wheat grow- 
ing ; cattle thrive admirably, and the tsetse fly does not exist in the 
district. The plain around the base of Mount Kasungo is 4,000 feet 
above the sea, which altitude should insure a climate suited to Euro- 
peans. The natives appear to be simple and peace-loving. 

Dr. Hannington, Bishop of Equatorial Africa, started with Mr. Taylor 
early in June to explore a route, difierent from that followed by Mr. 
Joseph Thomson, via Chagga and the Massai country to the eastern 
shores of Victoria Nyanza. He is of the opinion that if this route be 
once opened all the caravans for Mombasa to the interior would adopt 
it, and there would be a great saving of time and distance. The bishop 
has attached himself to a Swahali caravan. He hopes to touch Lake 
Naivasha and emerge at Seudega in Lower Kavirondo. When last heard 
from he was working his way through the unknown region between 
Kilima-njaro and Victoria Nyanza, and hoped to be at Kubaga by the 
end of the year. Since then an unconfirmed rumor has been received 
to the effect that he had been taken a prisoner by the King of the Mo- 
banza, (?) who threatened to put him to death. If successful, the bishop 
will accomijlish a work of great geographic as well as humanitarian 
value. Sir John Kirk was consulted, and approved of the scheme. 

Dr. Oscar Lenz's work on Timbulctu appeared early in the year. Since 
then the Imperial Geographical Society of Vienna has received good 



554 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

uews from the doctor's present African exploring expedition, which had 
passed through Monrovia, the capital of Liberia, and gone on to the 
Cameroons, the ultimate object being to explore the watershed between 
the Nile and Congo from the west. 

M. Leon Guiral has sent to the Geographical Society at Paris a de- 
scription of the west coast of Africa, about the mouths of the San Benito 
or Ey o and the Dote, 7^ miles farther south. The Eyo is a mile in width 
at its mouth. Banks of rocks bar the entrance, but the left arm is 
navigable for vessels drawing two meters of water. The banks are 
marshy. M. Guiral ascended it about 30 kilometers to Iniger, where 
there are falls. It has several tributaries, some of them navigable for 
canoes. The Dote is a river of little importance, with marshy banks, 
and is about a meter deep and 40 meters wide along the lower part of its 
course. It can be ascended in a canoe for about 21 miles. The com- 
merce of the district concentrates in the village on the right bank from 
which it takes its name. (See Proceedings of Eoyal Geographical So- 
ciety, December, 1885.) 

In the Proceedings of the Eoyal Geographical Society for February, 
1885, is a long and learned article upon "European Territorial Claims 
on the Coast of the Eed Sea and its Southern Approaches," by Sir E. 
W. Eawson, than whom, perhaps, no one is better fitted to discuss this 
subject, which is of great historical as well as geographical importance. 

Mr. E. H. Eichards, an American missionary, has journeyed from In- 
hambane to the Limpopo, through a region which is at present a blank 
on our maps. The Bombom Eiver forms the western boundary of the 
Portuguese province, and drains a large area of western Inhambane, as 
well as the eastern slope of the Makwakwa Eidge to the west. The 
country west of this ridge is semi-deserted, in consequence of the raids 
of Urazila's soldiers. From the Makwakwa Eidge to the Limpopo is 
level land. The Ama-gwaza, or people of Umzila, inhabit or control the 
country from the Zambesi to the Limpopo, and with the exception of 
the Portuguese possessions of Chiluan and Inliambane, from the sea in 
the east to the Matabele country on the west. In a second journey Mr. 
Eichards, besides visiting a large and hitherto untravelled area, was 
successful in reaching Baleni. He left Delagoa Bay on foot, attended 
only by a Zulu convert and three porters. The Komati Eiver, 200 yards 
wide, 30 feet deep, was crossed in a " dugout " canoe, and its course fol- 
lowed for several days ; the river was then left and a series of thirteen 
lakes passed. Though there was no connecting stream at that season, 
the natives call this string of lakes the Liputa Eiver, but there are often 
hills and bushy districts between the lakes. Emerging from the bush 
close to the Limpopo Eiver, they found themselves at Baleni. Herds 
of cattle were visible in every direction and clusters of small huts were 
very numerous. Manjobo or Manjova, the ruling chief, has several 
kraals on the west and one on the east side of the river, which here runs 
through a low flat plain of indurated alluvium as hard as marble. The 



GEOGRAPHY. 555 

river banks are about two yards high, the stream being about 15 feet 
deep and 200 yards wide. Manjobo's kraal on the east side is called 
Emkoutweni, "the place where the spear is stuck in the ground." The 
kraal of the Chobbas, or Machappas, is on the Limpopo, about 12 miles 
north of the Shangan Eiver, which enters the former from the eastward, 
and is otherwise known as the Luize or Mitti Eiver. From a hill just 
eastward of the Shangan, the i^lain of Baleni could be seen extending 
NW. and SE. as far as the eye could reach, and about 25 riiles in width. 
In the rainy season the plain is an immense pool or lake, and all the 
kraals are deserted for several months. The Shangan is salt, but good 
water can be had by digging. The people call themselves Ama Shan- 
gani, and all adults speak more or less Zulu, which is the language of 
the "court." Thence to Inhambane, took nine days through a most 
populous country. Bingwana, a kraal of about 5,000 inhabitants, is 
about four days from Inhambane, on the river of the same name, a deep 
but narrow stream abounding in sea-cows. The route was considerably 
south of the one taken in 1884. 

The Dutch exploring expedition into Portuguese West Africa has been 
so unfortunate as to lose its leader, young Mr. D. D. Veth, who died 
from disease on May 19, 1885, in camp on the banks of the Kala-Kanga 
Eiver, between Benguella and Humpata. 

In the October number of Petermann's Mittheilungen, is the first part 
of an account of the journey of the Austrian explorers, Drs. Paulitschke 
and von Hardegger, to Harar, by the former. It is accompanied by a 
map of the districts traversed. The concluding papers appear in the 
December number, in which will also be found an account and map of 
Menge's second journey in Somali-land. 

A fresh expedition in Somali-land has been undertaken by F. L. and 
W. D. James, who write from Berbera that they intend to traverse the 
Habr Gerhajis' country to Lebiholii, whence five days over the desert 
will bring them to Ogaden. 

The chief geographical societies in Germany have resolved to erect 
a monument to the late Dr. Nachtigal, who died Ai)ril 24, on board the 
German gunboat "Mowe", off the west coast of Africa, on Cape Palmas, 
where he lies buried. It is intended to have it bo large that it will serve 
as a landmark to seamen. 

The work done by Lieutenant Wissmann, in his exploration of the 
Kassai Eiver, the great southern tributary of the Congo, is second in 
importance only to the discovery of the Congo itself. It will seriously 
modify the conjectural geography of that portion of Africa. He found 
the river to be of immense volume, and navigable from its junction with 
the Lulua. He found the Sankuru and the Lubilash to be one river 
which instead of flowing northward to the Congo, turns westward and 
joins the Kassai. As it approaches the Congo the Kassai receives the 
great Koango, and enters the main river by the Kwamouth, after re- 
ceiving the water of Lake Leopold. Thus the river which on Stanley's 



556 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 

last map joins the Congo west of Stanley Falls, cannot be the Lubilash, 
and moreover must be of no great length. This discovery of Lieutenant 
Wissmann, along with that of the Mobangi by Mr. Grenfell, greatly in- 
creases the navigable waterway of the Congo system. 

Besides much good detail work done by the Kev. G. Grenfell on the 
Congo, he with Eev. T. J. Comber, has recently explored the Mobangi, 
which enters the right bank of the Congo, forming a great delta, be- 
tween 26' and 42' south latitude, nearly opposite Equator Station, and 
is probably its greatest tributary. Mr. Grenfell ascended the Mobangi 
on a mean course of north by east from the equator to 4° 30' north lati- 
tude, and left it still an open waterway. At 4° 23' north, just below 
the second rapids, he found it 673 yards wide ; at no point lower was 
it less in width. Its mean depth is 25 feet, and its current not more than 
80 to 100 feet per minute. From Mr. Grenfell's notes it would seem that 
this river is navigable the whole way from the Congo to 4° 30' north, a 
distance of probably 400 to 450 miles, taking account of the bends. 
His opinion and that of his Congo colleagues seems to be that the Mo- 
bangi is probably the lower part of the Welle, a river whose course is 
one of the unsolved problems of African geography ; but this opinion 
is scarcely sustained by the knowledge we now have of the region. 
Arguing from analogy, we should conclude that the source of the Mo- 
bangi does not lie east of 20° east longitude, and applying the meas- 
urements to Stanley's map, the watershed falls just on the hue thereon 
suggested. The distance in a direct line from the ultimate point reached 
by Mr. Grenfell to the last-known point on the Welle is 540 miles, 
and to the source of the Welle some 900 miles. It appears then to be 
practically impossible for this river (of less than the third of a mile in 
width), to carry off the water of the Welle Basin; and Mr. Stanley's 
suggestion, that the Bujere (wrongly called the Aruwimi) is the outlet 
of the Welle is rather strengthened than otherwise by this latest, and 
certainly not least important, contribution to our knowledge of the 
mighty Congo. 

The Portuguese possess a tract of land on the northern bank of the 
Congo, extending from Cape Lembo, south of Kabinda Bay, to Massab6, 
and extending inland 30 or 40 miles so as to contain Kabinda, Molembo, 
Landana, and Massab6. 

The whole of the vallev of the Kwilu, where the International Associa- 
tion had eighteen stations, is ceded to France. M. de Brazza, recently 
returned from Africa, reports most satisfactorily from the French Posses- 
sions on the Congo ; his reports are so late as October 13, 1885. 

The limits of the new " Kingdom of the Congo," as recognized by the 
BerUn Conference, appear to be as follows : On the Atlantic seaboard, 
from Banana point to Gab6 (5° 45' south latitude), then by one parallel 
of Gab6 to the meridian of Ponta da Lenha, by this meridian north to 
the Chiloango, thence to the source of that river, thence to the Mtomba- 
Mataca falls of the Congo, leaving to the French the station of Mboco, 



GEOGRAPHY. 557 

but reserving Mucumbi and Mauyanga, thence along the Congo to its 
confluence with the Bamba beyond the equator, where the boundary 
running northwest remains to be determined. The southern frontier 
follows the Congo from Banana to a point a little above Nokki. the south 
bank belonging to Portugal, thence on the parallel of Nokki to the 
Koaugo, along this river to about 9° south latitude, and thence in a 
diagonal line across the continent to Lake Bangweolo. Eastward the 
boundary coincides with the west coasts of Lakes Bangweolo, Tangan- 
yika, Muta-Nzighe, and Albert Nyanza. Within these limits the new 
state will have an approximate area of 1,000,000 square miles, and a 
population of probably 40,000,000, mostly of Bantu speech and Negro 
or Negroid stock. 

The council of the Royal Geographical Society, at its meeting of June 
22, unanimously passed a vote of congratulation to the King of the 
Belgians on the success which has attended his work of exploration and 
civilization in tropical Africa. The resolution was as follows : ''• That 
the thanks of the council be conveyed to King Leopold II, the King of 
the Belgians, for the interest taken by His Majesty in the exploration of 
Africa, and respectful congratulations on the signal success which has 
attended the schemes promoted by His Majesty's wisdom and munifi- 
cence." In acknowledging this communication officially, His Majesty 
expressed his great satisfaction at knowing that his efforts to introduce 
civilization into the heart of Africa are appreciated by such high and 
competent authority. 

Bulletin No. 3, 1885, of the Eoyal Geographical Society of Belgium, 
contains a paper by the secretary on the Congo question, describing 
the explorations made in the basin between 1485 and 1877, the founda- 
tion of the International Association, the creation of the Free State, and 
finally a description of the basin. 

Volume VIII, No. 2, of the GeograpMsclie Blatter, published by the 
Bremen Geographical Society, contains a similar paper by Dr. Oppel, 
dealing with the scientific and economical importance of this district. 
The paper is divided into two main sections : (1) The discovery and in- 
vestigation of the Congo {a) between 1484 and 1872, (6) the systematic 
exploration since 1872 ; (2) the extent and boundaries, geologj', &c., of 
the Congo region. While surprisingly alike in general features, these 
two papers are by no means coincident, since both show independent 
thought and preparation, and indeed treat the same subject from quite 
different standpoints. 

Science for August 23, 1885, contains an excellent map of the Congo 
Basin, reproduced by permission of Harper & Brothers. 

Among the recent scientific missions ordered by the French minister 
of public instruction is that under Lieutenant Palat, to explore the 
route from Senegal to Algeria by Medina, Timbuctoo, Mabrouk, and 
the Touat. 

Spain has recently acquired considerable territory in Africa, com- 



558 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

prising the west coast of the Sahara between Cape Bogodor (20° 9' north) 
and Cape Blanco (20° 45' north), both included ; and in the Gulf of 
Guinea, the coast line from the Muni Eiver, which forms the northern 
boundary of the French possessions on the Gaboon, to the Eio Comj^o 
(0° 43' to 2° 41' north). Six stations have already been established on 
the Sahara coast, and all points giving access to shipping will be per- 
manently occupied. Old treaties with the chiefs on the Eio Benito 
have been renewed, with a view to prevent the threatened advance of 
the French in that direction. 

The conductor of the Cartographic Institute, Hamburg, Herr L. 
Friedrichsen, writes thus concerning the limits of the German posses- 
sions in West Africa: "The Mahiu district, on the Gulf of Benin, be- 
tween Lagos and the mouth of the Niger, settled by the Hamburg firm 
of G. L. Gaiser, has not yet been placed under German protection. The 
coast from Jaboo to Old Calabar will, in my opinion, be in future re- 
garded as under British protection, but has not hitherto been officially 
placed under any European power. The frontier of the German Cam- 
eroon begins with the Ethiopian cataract on the Great Eiver, lying from 
there in a southwesterly direction to the sources of the Eio del Eey, 
following the right bank of this river to the coast, then the coast line 
in a southeasterly direction to the river Behuwe, excluding the town and 
neighborhood of Victoria as British, as well as the island of Malimba. 
The latter, as well as the whole coast from the river Behuwe to Gumbe- 
gumbe, is not described by me in the commissions of foreign officials as 
without a ruler, but as atract on which the actual raising of the German 
flag is yet the subject of diplomatic treaty. . The German j)rotectorate 
in Southwest Africa begins with 18° south latitude, not with Cape Frio." 

Dr. Ballay, in an address on the new possessions of France in Africa, 
sums up by saying that while the Ogow6 can never be rendered navi- 
gable, it can at least be made useful for bateaux. Its basin is naturally 
fertile and rich in resources. On the other hand, the country extend- 
ing from this basin to the Congo is generally sterile. There is little to 
hope for from this region, but it is the beginning of the practicable 
route for reaching the trade of the upper region, which has inhabitants 
of intelligence and thrift. The protectorate of France now extends 
along the whole north coast of the Gulf of Tadjura as far as Bahr-Aseal, 
and M. Caspari states that the relations of France with the Dauakils 
are cordial. Obock is at least a safe and easily accessible harbor, and 
the abundance of water renders possible the cultivation of vegetables. 

The fifth expedition of the Belgian Interpational African Association, 
which started with a view of connecting by a chain of stations the east 
coast with the interior basin, has returned, the expense proving too 
great to render the project profitable. The efforts of the association at 
present will probably be confined to the Congo watershed. 

Some Swedish merchants have purchased in the Massanja country, 
in the Cameroons, some 20 square miles of land, on which the Swed- 



GEOGRAPHY. 559 

ish flag was hoisted with proper honors some months ago. They state 
that had thej' been so empowered by the Swedish Government, on land- 
ing two years ago, they could have taken possession of the country from 
Boto, near Victoria, to Rio del Rey, one of the richest tracts of land on 
the west coast of Africa. At present they trade at their own risk. 

The Swedish Society of Anthropology and Geography has commis- 
sioned Baron Schwerin, professor of geography at the University of 
Lund, to proceed to the Congo on a scientific expedition, the chief ob- 
jects being to make geographical, meteorological, botanical, and zoolog- 
ical studies in the new state, and to collect ethnographical objects. 
Barons jSTordenskjold and Dickson have lent the expedition a number of 
valuable instruments. 

The Bulletin of the Italian Geographical Society for September con- 
tains extracts from the unpublished journals of Pellegriuo Matteucci, 
the African traveller. These have been edited by Delia Vedova, and 
are illustrated by a map showing the itinerary, and also the routes of 
Nachtigal and Rohlfs. Matteucci's journey, one of the most remarkable 
on record, extending from the Red Sea at Suakim to Lake Chad, and 
thence to the Niger and the Gulf of Guinea, has hardly attracted the 
attention it deserves, chiefly perhaps on account of the early death of 
this promising and brilliant explorer. 

The roll of geographical journals is increased by one. The Floren- 
tine section of the Italian African Society has been authorized by the 
central council and treasurer to issue a bulletin. It is intended to be 
partly eclectic, presenting geographical and especially African news to 
its readers, and to be particularly the ofl&cial record of the proceedings 
of the section. 

ASIA. 

At the June meeting of the Geographical Society of Paris, Baron 
Benoist-M6chin described a recent journey in the Merv oasis. This was 
a continuation of previous communications to the society of the great 
journey made by the baron and some companions from Peking, through 
Kirin to Niuguto, and thence along the Tiumen to Vladivostock. The 
journey the whole way was along the Corean frontier. From Vladivo- 
stock the travellers i)rocet ded to Tomsk, thence to Samarkand, through 
Karshi to Bokhara, to the Amou-Darya at Charjni, down that river to 
Petro-Alexandrovsk, thence to Khiva, and lastly across the Kara-Kum 
to Mero, Sarakho, and Meshed. The detailed narrative (with maps) is 
given in the bulletin of the society. At the same meeting M. de Saint- 
PolLias presented a map of the upper course of the Red River, pre- 
pared by the Anamites. Anotlier map of importance is that of the 
navigable water-ways of Southern India-China, prepared by M. Rueff, 
who has established a company for navigating those waters. 

Herr Glaser, the Arabian traveller, has returned to Arabia to resume 
his explorations. This second journey is to be mainly geographical. 



560 SCIENTIFIC EECOED FOE 1885. 

but arcliaeology will also receive attention. Besides visits to Marib and 
Nejdran, Herr Glaser contemplates a long journey through the interior 
from Hadramant to Omaun, and a second across South Arabia. 

In Science, July 3, 1885, is an excellent epitome of an article on 
" Eoutes into the interior of Western China," which originally appeared 
in Science et Nature. The two Chinese rivers (Sikiang, or Canton Eiver, 
and Song Ka) must for the present be considered as impracticable for 
commercial purposes, not precisely on account of the natural obstacles 
to be overcome, but because for a long time the Celestial Empire will be 
more or less impenetrable and dangerous for Europeans: and, on the 
other hand, the course of the Me-Kong is too long and too hilly. The 
routes which traverse the bed of the Brahmapootra and the valley of the 
Irrawaddi present almost insuperable difficulties. The route of the 
Salmen is most attractive, but it should not be forgotten that besides 
its length it must cross two water sheds, one of which at least is very 
difficult, and must ascend the Me-Kong for a very long distance. The 
route by the Eed River remains: this is not particularly accessible; but 
to establish communication with Yunnan and Szchuen some obstacles 
must be surmounted, and this is the course which offers fewest of them. 

Mr. Holt S. Hallett has finished his reconnaissance for railway routes 
in India-China, and the narrative of his journey, while not furnishing 
anything absolutely new, serves to enlarge our knowledge of the geog- 
raphy of that interesting region. 

The chief i^aper in the May issue of the Proceedings of the Eoyal 
Geographical Society is upon the disputed question of the sources of 
the Irrawaddi. As no one has yet followed the Sanpo from Thibet 
downward, it is still unproved whether it enters the Irrawaddi or the 
Brahmapootra. Mr. Eobert Gordon opposes the commonly received idea 
by advocating the Irrawaddi view, and gives six substantial reasons for 
his belief. General J. T. Walker, differing from Mr. Gordon, attacked 
the weakest point in his paper, that in which he thinks that the Zaynl 
Chu may prove to be an affluent of the Irrawaddi. 

Colonel Woodthorpe has just completed a journey through the Sing- 
pho, or Sanpo country. He penetrated into the land of the Borkhamp- 
tis, on the iSTorthern Irrawaddi, where no traveller is believed to have 
been since Lieutenant Wilcox's tour in 1828. The Irrawaddi is un- 
navigable at Pedau. 

A writer who has just travelled widely through Tonquin and Southern 
China describes in a recent number of the RepuhUque Frangaise the 
route from Lao-Kai, on the Eed Eiver, to Meng-tsze in Yunnan. Pre- 
mising that the river from the mouth to Lao-Kai on the Tonquin border 
is tolerably well known, he refers to the various routes for getting into 
Southwestern China, but' is far from enthusiastic about any of them, 
although he thinks that France in Tonquin has as much chance of get- 
ting the China trade as any of her rivals in the south. The writer then 
describes the route along the river from Lao-Kai to Manhao, the head 



GEOGRAPHY. 561 

of tlie Eed Kiver navigation. From tliis point the road to the plateau 
of Yunnan is said to be mountainous and difficult in the extreme. The 
article is of special value at this time, wlieu the commercial geography 
of Southeastern Asia promises so much of importance. 

The journeys of Dr. Neis in Central Taos (more than 3,000 miles) 
have resulted in a vast amount of information regarding the commercial 
routes of the western basin of the Me-Kong, the anthropology and eth- 
nology of the Laos and the Khas, and the social, commercial, and politi- 
cal condition of the regions visited. 

In a recent consular report from Siam, Mr. Archer gives an account 
of his journey into the province of Kabin, which lies on the eastern 
side of the Siamese delta, at the foot of the mountains separating the 
Mimam Valley from the Me-Kong. He gives some very interesting notes 
on the little-known Laos. 

The Government of India has conferred the title of Eaj Bahadoor 
and a grant in perpetuity of a rent-free village in Oude on Pundit Ki- 
shen Singh Milwal, an employ^ of the survey department, who is well 
known to all geographers for his explorations in Thibet, which have 
been published over the initials "A. K." 

Colonels Lockhart and Woodthorpe have been sent with a party to 
Gilghit, and it is intended that full surveys of the region lying to the 
northwest of Kashmir shall be executed. Several passes of no great 
difficulty lead toward the Russian possessions, which here approach 
British India closely. This mission is expected to largely increase our 
knowledge of the country toward the upper waters of the Oxus. Dan- 
ileff, io examining this river, has found what he reports to be the point 
of its ancient bifurcation into the Amu Daria and the TJzboi. 

Sir Henry Eawlinson has added considerable to our knowledge of the 
Badghis district, in Northern Afghanistan, north of the watershed of 
the Herat Valley. The September issue of the Proceedings of the 
Eoyal Geographical Society contains a maj) of the territory about the 
Hari-Rud and Murghab Elvers, including the Badghis — the district 
the possession of which is now in dispute between Eussia on the one 
hand, and Afghanistan and England on the other. The American 
Naturalist for December, 1885, contains an interesting account of this 
section, and a concise history of the Carolines. 

Up to July, 1885, the Afghan Frontier Commission had worked through 
districts already explored more or less in recent times, either by the 
Eiissians or others. Since then comparatively new ground has been 
broken, from which much of great geographical interest may be con- 
fidently expected. One very important matter has been accomplished, 
i. e., the exact determination by Captain Gore of the longitude of the 
great dome at Mashhad, longitude 59° 35' 52". 3, latitude 36° 17' 42". 
The result shows an apparent error of only eleven seconds in longitude 
at the end of a long line of more than 1,000 miles of survey from India. 
Captain Talbst has started to carry on triangulation to the head of 
H. Mis. 15 30 



562 SCIENTIFIC KECOKD FOR 1885. 

Hari Kud, with jiermission to proceed as far as Daulatyar. A native 
surveyor has started southward across the many apparently parallel 
ranges (quite unlike anything shown at present on our maps) between 
the Upper Hari-Rud and Gaur, or Zarni. Another native surveyor has 
started for the Upper Mnrghab and Ferozkohi country to survey the 
direct routes to Mannana from Obeh, across the Band-i-Turkestan. 

Lieut. Col. H. C. B. Tanner, S. C, deputy-superintendent of the survey 
of India, in charge of Darjeeling and Nepaul boundary surveys, makes 
some exceedingly interesting communications on the Himalayan snow 
peaks. 

An account of M. Potanin's journey from Peking to Lang-tcheou, in 
1884, was given in the Eussian Izvestia. The country between the Yel- 
low Eiver and Boro-balgasun is covered with sand, rarely moving sand, 
but barkhans fortified by a growth of shiapyJc, a species of Artemesia, 
with bushes of cavagana in the cavities between. Water is plentiful. 
The dry grounds between the sands are covered with steppe vegeta- 
tion, and sarrazin, millet, and hemp are grown there. The Orthous in- 
habit this region. Boro-balgasun was once a town, but now contains only 
a few huts within its ruined walls. At Edjin-Khoro, on the Tchamb- 
Kak River, are two tents, in which the bones of Zenghis Khau are said 
to be preserved. After leaving Boro-balgasun, the expedition visited 
the salt lake Baga-Shikye and passed over an almost uninhabited re- 
gion, with ruins of Mussulman villages, destroyed when the last insur- 
rection was put down. Lin-tcheou, on the Hoang-ho, is surrounded by 
fruit gardens, and for 50 miles south of it numerous villages extend 
along a canal which runs parallel to the Hoang-ho. This richness is of 
recent origin, for the whole region bears traces of the desolation wrought 
by the Chinese after the suppression of the insurrection of which the 
town of Tsin-tsipou was the center. South of this town M. Potanin left 
the Hoang-ho and crossed the series of flat ridges, which rise from 6,000 
to 7,000 feet above the sea, and are covered with loess to a thickness of 
200 to 300 feet. The sandstone of these hills contains some beds of 
salt. The loess covers the whole country from Ping-yang-sia to Lang- 
tcheou, which is a great city, picturesquely built on the right bank of 
the Hoang-ho, at the foot of a mountain. The population is of Turkish 
origin, and although it has assumed Chinese customs, it keeps its Mus- 
sulman religion. The latest news from this expedition was dated San- 
chuan, January 25, 1885. It had gone up the Hoang-ho and event- 
ually reached the confluence of the Tchitai with the Yellow Eiver. M. 
Berezovsky had left the expedition and taken another route, via Hoy- 
syan. He proposes to join MM. Potanin and Skasi on their way to the 
south. 

Colonel Prejevalsky has discovered three peaks, each over 20,000 feet 
high, in the middle range of the Kuen-lun. He has given them the 
names of Muscovite, Columbus, and Enigmatical. The most elevated 
point of the first named is Mount Kremlin ; of the second Mount Djinri; 



GEOGRAPHY. 563 

and of the third, the crowu of Monomachus. The plateau skirting the 
middle Kuen-lun has an average height of 4,000 feet. It appears from 
a telegram from Colonel Prejevalsky, dated Osh, August 31, that this in- 
trepid explorer has again failed to penetrate into Thibet over the Keria 
Mountains, in consequence of the strenuous opposition of the Chinese, 
who barricaded all the available highways with stones and destroyed the 
bridges. The InvaUd.e Eusse publishes the following telegram from Col- 
onel Prejevalsky from Pishpet, but dated Karakol 2d (new style Idth) 
November : " Our voyage has ended happily and with most encouraging 
scientific results." (See Proceedings of the Eoyal Geographical Society 
for December, 1885.) 

Dr. Z^landt has finished his work on the Kirgiz, which will soon be 
published by the West Siberian section of the Imperial Geographical 
Society. 

A parliamentary blue book (Corea No. 3, 1885), lately published, con- 
tains the report of a journey made by Mr. Carles the vice-consul at Soul, 
from that place to Phyong Kang, where some gold mines exist. The 
review of this in Nature, August 27, shows that it contains much of 
geographical interest. 

Mr. Gardner, British consul at Newchwang, China, publishes with his 
annual trade report this year (China, No. 6, 1885) a most interesting ac- 
count of his consular district, which embraces the whole of Manchuria. 
The report corrects some of the errors existing on our maps, which are 
far from accurate. 

It is to be hoped that the many rumors of prospective activity in 
railway building in China may be found to be well grounded. The 
necessary surveys would be of incalculable service in correcting the 
maps of the various provinces. These maps are mainly the work of the 
early Jesuits, and though remarkable, when one considers the material 
with which they worked, are still far from what they ought to be. 

Port Hamilton, of which England took possession at the time when 
hostilities with Eussia were imminent, consists of a group of small is- 
lands about 45 miles northeast of Quelpaert and about 30 miles off the 
Corean coast, in the Brougham Channel, separating the peninsula from 
Japan. The position of the group is 34° V 23" north latitude and 127^ 
17' 30" east longitude. England has since given up her claims. 

Sibiriakoff, the wealthy Russian merchant, well known as the friend 
and patron of Nordenskjold, has himself made an interesting journey 
during the summer of 1884. The details of it have only recently been 
made public, as news travels slowly in those regions. He ascended the 
Petchora to Oraneto, then crossed the Ural to tlie Sigva, or Whitefish 
Eiver, which joins the Sosva, an affluent of the Obi. The traveller 
reached Shikurik September 21, and Tobolsk October 18. It is demon- 
strated by this journey that a trade route by which goods can be car- 
ried in summer is practically open in this direction, a matter of great 
commercial importance to Siberia. 



564 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

An exploration to cover a period of five years is being organized by 
Yadrintseff, under the auspices of the Russian Geographical Society. 
Its purpose is the investigation of the ethnology and social economy of 
Siberia ; particular attention will be given to opportunities for extend- 
ing and correcting geographical knowledge. 

The trans-Siberian railway has already finished its first section of 135 
kilometers between Ekaterinburg and Kameshoff, and its early comple- 
tion to Tuimen is confidently expected. At each step in its advance- 
ment the geographical advantages to be derived from this commercial 
enterprise will be more marked. 

Preparations are being made for the expedition under Dr. Bunge and 
Baron von Toll, which will start next spring for Ustyansk, for the ex- 
ploration of the New Siberian Islands, which since Anjou's journeys in 
1821-'!23 have only been visited by the unfortunate Jeannette people 
for a few hours on their route to the mouth of the Lena. 

The geographical effects of the Krakatoa eruption, while of great im- 
portance, are of too local a nature to be properly considered under 
" progress in geography." 

Great Britain has annexed the territory of the ex-King Thebaw to her 
India possessions. 

In the province of Adana, Asia Minor, not far from Tarsus, at a few 
hours' travel from the sea, among the mountains, has recently been dis- 
covered a ruined town hitherto entirely unknown. The ruins lie near 
the route from S61ef-k(§ to Karaman, by Mohara. Sarcophagi, almost 
intact, and resembling those of Lycia, exist there and would seem 
worthy of study. 

Eussian geographical exploration of the Caucasus has begun. MM. 
Djin and Dimick have traveled among its glaciers, climb ed its passes, 
and given an account of their travels in Petermann's Mittheilungen. 
Ushpa is estimated at 16,500 feet high, and Tetuuld at 15,500 feet or 
thereabouts. 

It is stated that an accurate survey of the island of Yezo and the 
neighboring islands (especially the Kuriles) is to be made by the Jap- 
anese naval department. It is anticipated that the work will occupy 
four years. 

The Zeitschrift of the Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde in Berlin (Vol. XX, 
No. 3) is almost wholly filled with an account by Herr Schmidt of the 
travels of the friar Kubruk, between 1253 and 1255, into the heart of 
Central Asia and to the borders of China. 

EUROPE. 

The lectures given under the auspices of the Geographical Society of 
Paris, in the spring of 1884, were so successful that they were resumed 
this year. The names of some of the lecturers give us an idea of the 
importance attached to the subject of geography in Europe : Janssen, de 
Lapparent, Bouquet de la Grye, Dr. Hamy, Himly, Levassear, Louis 



GEOGRAPHY. 565 

Simouin, Micbel. It would be of the greatest benefit to this country if 
a society co-ordinate with the Geographical Society of Paris, having its 
headquarters at Washington, could arrange for a course of lectures by 
some of the coufreres in this country of the above-named gentlemen. 

Under the title of O'Explorador (the Explorer), a Portuguese journal 
commenced its appearance with the first of the year at Lisbon. It ap- 
l>ears twice a month, and will chronicle the advance of science in all its 
branches, but especially that of geography and travel. 

In March appeared the first number of the Scottish Geographical Mag- 
azine, the organ of the new Scottish Geographical Society. It aims at 
being much more than the organ of the society, however. 

At the March meeting of the Geographical Society of Paris, Mr. 
Charles Eabot described the results of the mission with which he was 
charged by the minister of public instruction to explore Northern Fin- 
land and Eussian Lapland. He explained especially the valleys of the 
Pasvig and Talom, as well as Lake Enara. It has hitherto always been 
believed that the highest mountain in Sweden was Sulitjelma, on the 
Norwegian frontier, in latitude 67° 16' north, and belonging as much to 
Norway as to Sweden, the height of which is a little more than 6,000 
feet. In 1884 the topographical surveyor of the province of Norrland 
found that another mountain, viz, Sarjektj^kko, 6,760 feet in Swedish. 
Lapland, was higher than Sulitjelma ; but now it has been discovered 
that neither is this mountain the highest in Sweden. Bucht Svenonius 
and Mr. Kabot state that the honor belongs to Kebnekaisse, latitude 
68°, also in that province, the height of which has been ascertained to 
be 6,940 feet above the level of the sea. In the same neighborhood is 
Kaskasatjokko, 6,800 feet. The observations of Mr. Eabot in the 
mountainous area of Store Baergefjeld, in Nordland, Arctic Norway, 
represented on the best charts as occupied by an immense continuous 
glacier field, show that it has been wholly misunderstood. There is no 
primary glacier, but merely seven secondary glaciers, isolated in ravines, 
and hardly passing beyond the stage of n6v6. Eabot afterward made 
explorations in the Kola peninsula of Eussian Finland, determining the 
existence of three distinct chains of mountains between the Polar and 
White Seas, which reach a heigbt of more than 3,000 feet. The country 
has hitherto been charted as a sort of plain, broken merely by lakes and 
low hills. The area between the ranges is level, and trees of good size 
and form reach latitude 68° 50'; beyond they extend some distance, 
but do not exceed 12 or 15 feet in height. 

In the " Elementiir liirooarken " (classical schools) of Sweden, geog- 
rapliy has hitherto been classed as an appendix to history, and at the 
"Loktor" (candidate) examinations in history and geography, questions 
are only asked about the former. At the congress of teachers held in 
Stockholm last year, a resolution was adopted to the effect that geog- 
ra[)hy ought to form a separate study of the school education. 

A somewhat amusing quarrel has arisen between the parishes of 



56 G SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 

Kjelvik and Maaso (Norway) about a poiut of considerable geographical 
interest, viz, the proprietorship of the North Cape. It is caused by 
the establishment on the celebrated promontory of a restaurant, the 
taxes of which are claimed by both parishes. The cape has always 
been considered to form the boundary between the two, without it be- 
ing stipulated to which it actually belonged. 

The well-known rocky islet Munken (the Monk), which lies 3J miles 
south of Sumbo, and formerly rose to a height of 70 feet above the sea, 
has completely subsided. A considerable portion of it had crumbled 
away last year, but it is now no higher than the low surrounding rocks, 
so that even in tolerably fine weather the sea break,« over and covers it. 
The shoal water about the islet causes such dangerous currents that 
the seamen of olden times believed there was a Malstrom there, and it 
is therefore very unfortunate that this rock, which served as a sea-mark, 
will no longer warn navigators of their approach to danger. 

From recent observations it would appear that during the last thirty 
years or so the rising of the shores around the Baltic and Gulf of Both- 
nia has gone on with greater rapidity than during the previous period 
of observation. The increased rate of emergence in recent times is 
clearly shown on the rock known as Stora Eeppen, not far from Pitea, 
Sweden. That rock in 1851 had emerged 94 centimeters above its former 
level since the commencement of the observations ; while in August, 
1884, it had risen 50 centimeters more. The general results compared 
with previous observations — that is for a period of one hundred and 
thirty-four years — prove that since 1750 the head of the Gulf of Bothnia 
has risen 2.10 meters, or 1.70 meters per century. This rate of emergence 
declines progressively toward the south. It is not more than 30 centime- 
ters at Kaze, and it is zero at Bornholm. The mean rise of the Swedish 
coast is thus 1.60 meters per century. 

A very useful and complete atlas of Eussia has been prepared by J. 
Poddubnyi, and published by A. Deubner, St. Petersburg, under the 
title of a " Eussian school atlas," at the small price of one ruble, or 80 
cents. 

The project of connecting the Volga and the Don, which dates back 
to 1568, when Selim, the son of Solyman the Magnificent, besieging As- 
trakhan, attempted to join the two rivers in order to transport materials 
of war, has been revived. M. L6on Dru, a French engineer, having sur- 
veyed a line in October, 1885, was convinced that the project is practi- 
cable, and experimental borings have already commenced. 

The attention of geographers and men of science ought to be called 
to several numbers of the ArcMvfiir die naturicissenschaftlicJie Landes- 
durchforschung von Bohmen, which have recently been issued (Prague, 
Franz Ezuonatz). The numbers of most interest to geographers pure 
and simple are those forming the first division of the third volume, and 
containing a list of the heights in Bohemia, trigonometrically determined 
by the Imperial Institute of Military Geography in the years 1877-'79. 



GEOGRAPHY. 5G7 

The first steamer comiug directly from the open sea arrived at Co- 
logne on March 18, 1885. It was called the Industry, and was of 513 
tons burden. 

The Austrian Government, with the consent of the Porte, has under- 
taken to make a geographical survey of the Albanian coast, with a view 
to preparing new, maps. Two Austrian gunboats have accordiugly left 
Corfu with officials of the chart department on board. They were joined 
by the Turkish officers, under whose sui^erintendence the survey will 
be made. We may expect some definite results in the course of the next 
six months. 

The Hungarian Society of Geography is engaged in organizing a Mag- 
yar expedition for the exploration of the region around the Urals ; es- 
pecially the Baskir country, where Urals- Altati peoples are disappear- 
ing. 

The Military Geographical Institute of Italy has published a memoir 
on the mensuration of the area of the Kingdom of Italy, with a new 
approximate estimate of the same. The figures are as follows, in square 
kilometers : 

The peninsula of Italy 236,402-1720 

The islets legally connected with its shores. 368* 8649 

Sicily : 25,461-2535 

The SicUian islets .• 278-8147 

Sardinia 23,799-5607 

The Sardinian islets 277-6027 

Total... - 286,588-3000 

This equals 110,652 square miles, and is about 10,000 square kilome- 
ters less than previous official figures, and 2,000 less than General ISteb- 
nitski's estimate. 

Thoroddson's work in Iceland in 1884 seems to have been much fuller 
and more precise than the notes hitherto published would indicate. 
From the narrative published in Globus, it appears that in a journey of 
ten weeks over the Odadahraun desert and the adjacent mountains, 
about one-half was passed in an uninhabited region, much of which 
was completely unknown. He forced his way along the northern base 
of Vatna Jokull, the journey being frequently hazardous and always 
laborious. Many corrections of heights were made; and it seems tliat 
Jokulsa, which has been taken as the longest Icelandic river, is ex- 
ceeded by Thiorsa, which is some 120 miles in length. An ascent of 
the unvisited Dyngja Volcano was made. It proved to have a double 
crater, the inner one being GOO feet or more in depth. 

NORTH AMERICA. 

The work of the several departments of Governments having to do 
with geodesy, geography, and hydrography has made satisfactory prog- 
ress. In no one of them however has there been any special develop- 



5G8 SCIENTIFIC EECOED FOE 1885. 

ment of more than usual importance, while the routine work thereof — 
as well as that of the several State surveys, will be published in the 
respective reports. The topographic work of the United States Geo- 
logical Survey during the past six months has been mainly in the olfice; 
the geographical map of the United States is rapidly approaching com- 
pletion. 

Prof. Asaph Hall, in Science^ July 3, corrects the statement con- 
tained in the current edition of the Encyclopsedia Britannica, that there 
is no land in Connecticut " above a thousand feet in elevation," and' 
shows that there are certainly half a dozen points which exceed this 
limit, and at least two that run over two thousand feet. 

The Arctic steamer "Alert" returned to Halifax on October 18, from 
Hudson's Bay, with the observation party which has spent fifteen mouths 
there testing the practicability of that route for navigation from the 
Canadian j^ortheast to Europe. They show the average temperature 
to be not so low as the average winter temperature in the Northwest. 
The lowest monthly average was 30° below zero. The ice observations 
show that Hudson Straits and Bay are navigable for properly built 
and equipped vessels for from three to four months, from July to Oc- 
tober. 

G. W. Dawson (/Science, April 24) describes the Saskatchewan country, 
or that portion of the prairies which extends north of the northern 
boundary, as containing an approximate area of 300,000 square miles, 
and as less than 2,000 feet above the sea level, and thus lower than the 
corresponding portion of the continent farther south. Many interest- 
ing details will be found in this article. 

So far as heard from, explorations in Alaska appear to consist of 
the journeys of Lieut. H. T. Allen and his companions ; Lieutenant 
Cantwell ; Assistant Engineer Samuel B. McLenegan and Seaman Nelson 
of the "Corwin"j Henry D. Woolfe; Lieutenant Stoney; and Doctor 
Everette. 

Lieutenant Allen was sent by General Miles last year. He ascended 
the Copper or Atna Eiver and explored its northern and western branch 
to its source, a distance of some 200 or 300 miles. He found the river 
rapid, with many cataracts, and having in some places a fall of 7 feet to 
the mile. Its width is variable, sometimes several miles, including large 
islands, at others but a few hundred feet. There are many glaciers 
near it, and the active Wrangel volcano rises almost from the river. 
A portage was made across this range to the sources of the Tananah, 
where there are a number of extensive lakes. This river was reached 
about 125 miles above the point to which it had been explored, and it 
and the Yukon were followed to the sea. 

Lieutenant Cantwell has succeeded in getting to the source of the 
Kowak Eiver, which consists of four large lakes, of which the most im- 
portant is in latitude 07°, longitude 153° west. It is supposed to be 520 
miles from the mouth of the river. 



GEOGRAPHY. 569 

Assistant Engineer Samuel B. McLenegan, accompanied only by 
Seaman Nelson of the "Corwin," ascended the Noatak, also called the 
Nunatah or Inland Kiver, which has been known for thirty years, but 
never explored. Its enters Hotham Inlet westward from the Kowak 
iiud about 30 miles north of the Arctic circle. The source of the branch 
iiscended was found to be a small lake surrounded by snow-banks, and 
supposed to be 400 miles from the mouth. The voyage was extremely 
creditable to those who took part in it, though it is greatly to be re- 
gretted that exact observations could not have been made, and is 
noteworthy, as the party reached the highest latitude yet attained by 
\\ liite men in the interior of Alaska. The report and charts, which are 
being prepared by the Department, will doubtless fill a good part of the 
existing blank on the maps of this area. 

Mr. Henry D. Woolfe, who has been stationed at Cape Lisburne during 
the past year, has travelled along the coast from that point to Hotham 
Inlet, and ascended the Notitak about 30 miles. Between the Corwin 
Lagoon and Cape Krusenstern a river falls into the sea, which he was 
informed is connected with the Noatak, running behind the hills which 
lie back of Shesholik village. Mr. Woolfe is preparing a map showing 
all the native settlements and even single huts temporarily occupied 
along the coast between Capo Krusenstern and Point Barrow. 

Lieutenant Stoney's work, so far as it has gone, seems to be successful. 
He sent down a mail by the "Corwin", which arrived in San Francisco 
October 12. At that time he was near the head of Hotham Inlet and 
prepared to go into winter quarters. Details will not be published for 
a year yet. 

Doctor Everette has collected a large amount of geographical data 
and made sketches along the Yukon, which will serve to enlarge our 
knowledge of Alaska and correct our maps. 

M. Violet d'Aouest's note, read at the August meeting of the Geo- 
graphical Society of Paris, on the aerial formation of soil will be found 
of great interest to geographers ; a concise resume is given in the Pro- 
ceedings of the Royal Geographical Society for September. . 

The Danish exploring expedition to the east coast of Greenland under 
Lieutenants Holm and Garde, which returned to Copenhagen in October 
after a three years' absence, has fulfilled all expectations, having reached 
latitude 00° 08' north, the northernmost point (on East Greenland) ever 
attained by Europeans. Lieutenant Holm is stated to have made some 
very valuable geographical and ethnological discoveries, having spent 
last winter among East Greeulanders never before visited by Euro- 
peans. He has named the stretch of coast explored. King Cliristian 
IX's Land. He considers it is now settled beyond a doubt that no early 
Scandinavian remains occur on the east coast. 

Mr. Gamel, the owner of the vessel which has been put at Lieutenant 
Hovgaard's disposal for explorations in the Kara Sea in the summer of 
1885, intends (provided his enterprise be seconded by the Government) 



570 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

to send his steamer "Dijmpbua" next summer on au expedition to the 
east coast of Greenland under an officer of the Danish royal navy, to 
explore and lay down the coast line between 66° 08' (the farthest north- 
ward point attained by Lieutenant Holm's expedition) and 70°. 

SOUTH AMERICA. 

Professor Seelstrang, of the University of Cordoba, has been ap- 
pointed by the Argentine Government to superintend the publication 
of an atlas of the Republic, and a considerable sum has been appropri- 
ated for the work. It is to consist of 27 parts, and 4 of these are already 
in hand. 

The Dutch scientific expedition in March and April last, to examine 
the upper course of the Surinam Eiver, was quite successful. At Ber- 
gendal they took the height of the neighboring Blue Mountain, which 
they ascended and from which they had a view of the various mountain 
chains of Surinam. 

M. Alcenar Qiraripe read a paper on geographical neology and neog- 
raphy before the Geographical Society of Eio de Janeiro, in which he 
asks if there shall be a geographic neology for Brazil ; a correction of 
orthography ; and if so, how these can be brought about. The questions 
were referred to a commission, whose report has not yet been received. 

The Bolletino of the Italian Geographical Society for July prints two 
un-edited letters of early Italian adventurers in South America, recently 
brought to light in the archives of Florence and Modena. The longer 
and more important, dated December 24, 1534, is addressed from Valen- 
zuela (Venezuela) by a certain Tomaso Fiaschi to his brother in Flor- 
ence. 

Details of Mr. im Thurm's journey to Mount Eoraima, British Guiana, 
are given by Mr. H. I. Perkins, who accompanied Mr. im Thurm, in the 
August number of the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society, 
and an illustrated article in Nature; April 30, 1885 j vol. xxxi, pp. 
607-10. 

The Argentine expeditions into Patagonia have raised the agronomic 
credit of that country, which has long been supposed arid and sterile. 
The report of General ViUejas, and that of Colonel Roa, who has trav- 
elled more than 500 leagues in Patagonia, affirm that the region near 
the base of the mountains is rich, not only in metals and minerals, but 
in fertile valleys which nestle between spurs of the range. With steam 
transportation between the mountains and the coast, it is affirmed that 
rapid growth of population might be expected and that prosperous com- 
munities might be established. 

A party commanded by Feilberg, and sent out by the Argentine Gov- 
ernment to explore the Pilcomayo, found that a trade route via that 
river to Bolivia is not feasible. Below the rapids, GO leagues above the 
mouth, the PDcomayo receives an affluent not marked on any chart, 
but with as much water as the Pilcomayo or perhaps more. 



GEOGRAPHY. 571 

As a good exami)le of what comi)rebeusive geogra])liical observation 
ought to be, we refer to Dr. W. Sievers's accoimt of his travels in Vene- 
zuela, which appeared in the Mittheilungen of the Hamburg Geograph- 
ical Society for 1884. He gives some interesting details of the effects 
still to be traced of the great earthquake which shook the north coast 
of South America on March 2G, 1812, and describes a jouruey he 
made from Caracas to Puerto Cabello in November and December, 18S4. 
Dr. Sievers was a pupil of Professors Richtofen and Wagner, and was 
trained as a geographer with a view to geographical explorations. 

Mr. E. H. Glaisher's journey on the Berbice Eiver and Wieroonie 
Creek will add materially to our knowledge of the interior of British 
Guiana, which has been almost a terra incognita. 

M. Coudrean has — as the result of one of his six journeys in Guiana — 
brought back materials for two new maps, the one of the region between 
the Oyapock, Yari, Amazons, and Atlantic, the other of Southern Gui- 
ana between the Branco and Paru. 

M. J. Chaffaujon's explorations on the Orinoco have already corrected 
many errors in the charts of its course. M. Thouar has gone on a new 
expedition to complete his work on the same river. 

OCEANIOA. 

The first annual meeting of the Victoria branch of the Geographical 
Society of Australia was a most flattering success. The contributions 
were numerous, and many of them by distinguished authors. 

Mr. B. Greenebaum, United States consul at Samoa, reports that a new 
island has been thrown up out of the sea about 40 miles ofi' the Tonga 
Islands, bearing towards the Fiji Islands, and in the track of California 
vessels. It is 2 miles long and 250 feet high, and is in latitude 20° 28' 
south and longitude 175° 21' west. Mr. Shipley, consul at Auckland, 
New Zealand, confirms the above in a report to the State Department, 
and gives interesting particulars. He thinks the island is at least 2 or 
3 miles long and 60 feet high, in latitude 20° 21' south, longitude 175° 
28' west. 

The death is announced from Sydney of Thomas Boyd, the first man 
to cross the Murray River and the last surviving member of Hume and 
Hovell's exjiloring party. 

An excellent description and resume of the history of the Caroline 
and Pelew Islands was published in Nature^ September 10, 18S5. 

The April issue of the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society 
contains an account of a recent exploring expedition into the King 
country of the North Island, New Zealand. This country, containing 
some 10,000 square miles, is the Maori stronghold, and after the war of 
18G3-'C4 white men were forbidden to enter, under pain of death. It 
had thus never been surveyed prior to Mr. Kerry-Nicboll's expedition, in 
1883. In the course of 600 miles of travel twenty-five rivers, not pre- 
viously shown upon the maps, and two small lakes were found ; the 



572 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

source of the four principal rivers of the colony, the Whangjanui, Wai- 
kato, Whangaehu, and Manganui-a-te-Ao, were traced; the hydrog- 
raphy of Lake Taupo in relation to the four distinct watersheds flow- 
ing into it was examined; the volcano of Mount Tongariro (9,300 feet) 
and Mount Euapehu (9,000 feet), the highest peaks of the North Island, 
were ascended. 

A Dutch expedition to ITew Guinea is being organized. The Govern- 
ment has promised a grant not exceeding 10,000 florins a year, and con- 
sequently the expedition is to be confined to geographical investiga- 
tions. It will probably go to Dorch or to Onin. 

Dr. Otto Finsch reports as some of the results of his work in German 
Kew Guinea that he traversed the north coast for a distance of 1,000 
English miles, from East Cape to 141° east longitude (Greenwich). Sev- 
eral good harbors were discovered, and continuous meteorological and 
sounding observations made. A large river was discovered, which the 
doctor named after the Empress Augusta ; its course was followed for 
30 English miles into the interior. There is evidence of the existence 
of many other rivers. The German Emperor has ordained that the 
harbor shall henceforth be known as "Friedrich Wilhelm's Hafen," and 
the bay near it "Prince Heinrich's Hafen"; the large navigable river 
east of Cape de la Torre as the " Kaiserin Augusta Fluss"; while Beaupr^, 
situated in the middle of the peninsula, will now be called " Varzin." 
" Neu Mecklenburg " will be substituted for New Ireland ; "Neu Laueu- 
burg" for the Duke of York group, and " Neu Pommern" for New Brit- 
ain, the largest island of the Bismarck Archipelago. 

Dr. P. L. Sclater suggests " Torresia " as an appropriate name for 
British New Guinea. 

The Geographical Society of Australia has completed arrangements 
for the exploration of New Guinea, and a fully-equipped expedition 
has started under the leadership of Capt. Henry Charles Everill. The 
rumored massacre of the entire party is discredited by the British resi- 
dent on Thursday Island. 

Mr. H. O. Forbes is now engaged in the same field. He has accepted 
a contribution of £500 from the above-named society, with the condi- 
tion that he gives it a full report of his journey, and second sets of col- 
lections. After various mishaps the expedition arrived safely at Port 
Moresby (see Proceedings Eoyal Geographical Society December), in 
company with Sir Peter Scratchley, early in September, and made 
immediate arrangements to start for the interior in company with the 
Eev. Mr. Chalmers. Mr. Forbes is going to attempt to reach the summit 
of Mount Owen Stanley, 13,205 feet high, and hitherto untrodden by 
the foot of man. 

The Geographical Society of Hamburg has published a memorandum 
showing the territorial extent of the recent German annexations in the 
Pacific Ocean. Reduced to English measurements, the German esti- 
mates are as follows: Kaiser Wilhemsland (German New Guinea), 



GEOGRAPHY. 573 

34,508 square miles ; Keu Mecklenburg (New Ireland), 3,398-8 square 
miles ; Neu Pommern (New Britain), 9,348-8 square miles ; the Bismarck 
Archipelago, 15,261-C square miles ; in all about 65,512 English geo- 
graphical square miles. The same authority estimates the area of New 
Guinea taken under British protection as 65,517-7C square miles, or 
about the same as the total of German annexations in the Pacific, and 
in each case the area acquired is rather more than twice that of Ire- 
land. 

ARCTIC REGIONS. 

In a communication to the New York Tribune last February, Lieu- 
tenant Greely advocates the route by Franz Josef Land to the Pole, and 
gives his reasons for so doing at some length, confirming the opinion 
previously expressed by Chief Engineer Melville. Captain Sorensen — 
who speaks from large experience and after close observation of the ice 
drift in that vicinity, suggests that Spitzbergen and Franz Josef Land 
form parts of a vast archipelago, and not two wholly distinct territories, 
as has hitherto been believed. 

When the " Corwiu " returned from Bering Sea to San Francisco in 
June for some repairs, she reported the ice unusually far south in April 
and May in that sea. The same state of affairs existed in the Atlan- 
tic. The captains of several Norwegian steamers dispatched to Green- 
land for seal-hunting, report that in consequence of the enormous ice 
masses on the east and south coasts no seals had been killed by any 
vessel. The state of the ice this summer seems to have been just the 
reverse of that of last year, when the coast was unusually free from 
ice. If the recently promulgated theory that this is an evidence of mild 
weather in the polar regions is at all correct, it is unfortunate that no 
expedition is in the field to take advantage of It. 

Four Arctic expeditions are said to be projected for next year : two 
organized in Portugal, one in Holland, and one in Denmark. They all 
propose to visit the islands of the glacial ocean which belong to Russia; 
but the Danish expedition will specially explore the Kara Sea and the 
northern coast of Siberia, to define if possible the unknown region 
which is supposed to lie to the northeast of Novaya Zemlya. 

In the latter half of 1883, Dr. F. Boase visited the German polar sta- 
tion in Cumberland Sound, and made several excursions in the neigh- 
boring region and along the coast. The results are briefly told by him 
in a paper in numbers 5 and G of the Verhandlungeti of the Berlin Geo- 
graphical Society for this year (accompanied by map), in which many 
imi)ortaut corrections are made in the existing admiralty charts of these 
coasts. 

At the meeting of the Naval Institute, which was held in Annapolis 
October 9, Lieut. J. W. Danenhower, of the '' Jeannette" expedition, pre- 
sented an, essay on the advisability of further Arctic explorations, an<l 
expressed himself as opposed to further work north of the 85th i)ar(il- 



574 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

lei. The paper was supplemented by others received from Chief Engi- 
neer Melville, U. S. IST., Sir George Nares, and Lieutenant Greely, and ver- 
bally discussed by Dr. Emil Bessels, of the " Polaris" expedition, and Mr. 
Clements R. Markham, of the Royal Geographical Society, who presided 
at the meeting. Lettei-s in favor of further Arctic exploration were read 
from Prof. J. E. Nourse, U. S. IST., and Dr. H. Rink, formerly governor of 
the Danish colonies in Greenland. The general tenor of the discus- 
sion, both oral and written, was that scientific exploration of the Arctic 
regions will go on. 

Mr. C. R. Markham, in his article "Polar Regions," of the current 
edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, permits himself to make the 
following remarkable misstatement: "Lieutenant Lockwood made a 
journey along the north coast of Greenland, and reached a small island 
in 330 24' [north latitude] and 44° 5' [west of Greenwich]. Dr. Pavy 
and another went a short distance beyond the winter quarters of the 
"Alert," and a trip was made into the interior of Grinnell Land. But 
all this region hod been explored and exhaustively examined by the English 
expedition in 1875-'76." The italics are ours. 

Dr. Leonard Stejneger's illustrated article on the Commander Islands 
in Heft 3, Band viii, of the Deutsche geographische Blatter is of special 
value, in that it settles definitely the doubt that has existed as to the death 
of Bering. The writer visited and described the ruins of the hut on 
Bering Island in which Bering and his companions wintered 141 years 
previously, and where the celebrated traveller himself died and was 
buried. The relics found by Dr. Stejneger are of great, if melancholy, in 
terest. 

HYDROGRAPHY. 

The C. S. S. "Alert" has been engaged for some time in surveying the 
coasts of Corea. The returns have not yet been charted by the Depart- 
ment. 

The last report from the TJ. S. S. "Ranger's" work on the west coast of 
Central America embraces 100 miles of coast between San Juan del Sur 
and the Gulf of Dulce ; this connects the former surveys with the Eng- 
lish detail work from Panama northward. 

The new chart of the harbor of Payta is an excellent specimen of the 
standard which Commander John R. Bartlett has established for the 
future work of the Hydrographic Bureau of the Navy Department. The 
reduction of the photographic view of the anchorage will be of the great- 
est service to mariners. The old Spanish charts of Porto Rico and other 
West India islands have been verified, and as fast as possible this veri- 
fication will be extended to all the harbors of the West Indies. A chart 
of the Arctic Ocean, constructed on the ordinary conical projection, en- 
ables one to study those regions with the utmost facility. 

Returns have just been received from the summer's work of the Coast 
Survey steamer "Carlile P. Patterson" in Southern Alaska. An im- 



♦ ' GEOGRAPHY. 575 

mense extent of territory has been covered and in a most thorougk man- 
ner, the ground being comparatively virgin, as the rough work by the 
Eussians scarcely served as reconnaissance. The surveys off the coast of 
Maine and the general routine work during the six months covered by 
this rei)ort have not developed anything of special importance. 

The Deutsche Seewarte as issued a chart of the ice in the Atlantic 
Ocean this spring, which penetrated very far south and east, in conse- 
quence of continuous northerly and northwesterly winds. Several ice- 
bergs appear to have been found in the Gulf Stream. It seems from 
experience that toward the end of June the ice recedes northward, while 
between the banks and the east coast of Newfoundland it remains long- 
est, even after it has disappeared south and southeast of the* banks. 

Among the most important additions to our hydrographical knowl- 
edge are the following : Survey of Little Bahama Bank and southern 
shore of Newfoundland ; main Strait of Magellan ; additions to ports 
and coasts of Southeast Africa ; in the Bed Sea the intricate approaches 
to Suakim have been well laid down; Penang harbor has been resur- 
veyed and the positions of the islands lying to the northwest, and form- 
ing the eastern boundary of the ordinary route of vessels to Malacca 
Strait, have been accurately determined; the unknown western shores 
of Corea, south of the approach to Soul, for two degrees of latitude, 
have been explored, and the main features of that island-studded shore 
laid down, new rivers and harbors have been entered, notably the large 
river Gun san-gang, at the entrance to which stands the considerable 
town of Makfo ; the southern approach to Haitan Strait on the Chinese 
coast has been recharted ; in the Solomon Islands the Bougainville 
Strait has been charted ; many additions have been made to the charts 
of various groups of Pacific Islands ; the survey of the coast of India by 
officers of the British navy and India marine, has been actively pro- 
gressing, surveys of Eangoon, Cheduba, and other iwrts in the Bay of 
Bengal, as well as harbors on the west coast of Hindustan have been 
made ; a resurvey of the great Canadian lakes has been commenced in 
Georgian Bay. 

The Italian corvette "Yettor Pisani" commanded by G. Columbo, re- 
cently completed a three years' circumnavigation of the globe, with suit- 
able outfit and instructions for scientific hydrography. The regions 
visited included both coasts of South America, from Peruambuco on the 
east, south to Magellan Straits, and north to Panama, the Galapagos 
and Hawaiian Islands, the China, Indian, and Eed Seas, and so home. 
The results of the voyage are very satisfactory, many deep-sea sound- 
mgs having been taken, numerous charts corrected or resurveyed, and 
• general hydrographic information gathered. 

One of the most interesting features of the Aberdeen meeting of the 
British Association was the lecture given by Mr. John Murray, director 
of the "Challenger" publications, on the results of deep-sea research, 
especially as considered from the hydrographer's standpoint. 



576 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. ^ 

The Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society for September 
contain the following: ^' We received in the course of the past mouth 
two communications relating to the picking up of bottles with inclosed 
memoranda cast overboard by enterprising ship captains' with a view 
to testing the direction of what may be called the secondary currents 
of the Atlantic. One of the communications is from the German con- 
sul at Fayal in the Azores, and is to the effect that one day, about the 
beginning of July last, a bottle was i>icked up 'near the coast of the 
island of Pico,' north latitude 38° 26', west longitude 28° 35', the contained 
papers staging that it had been thrown overboard from the Hamburg 
steamship "Bohemia" on August 23, 1884, in north latitude 42° 4', west 
longitude 52° 12'. The inference to be drawn from this case is that the 
southerly current thrown off by the Gulf Stream in this part of the At- 
lantic is one of extreme slowness. The other communication is from 
Herr H. Wolff, of Grand Popo, West Africa. Writing on the 30th day 
of May last, he informs us that a negro in his employ found on the beach 
near Grand Popo a bottle, the inclosed papers of which state it was 
thrown overboard from the shij) "Patriarch" (from Newcastle, N. S. W,, 
bound for London) on the 11th December, 1884, in north latitude 2° 46', 
west longitude 22° 3'. This point is near the southern edge of the 
Guinea current, which thus appears to have taken five months to carry 
the bottle some 1,200 geographical miles from west to east." 



PHYSICS. 



By George F. Barkee, M. D., 

Professor of Physios in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 



GENERAI.. 



The lectures on Molecular Dynamics, given by Prof. Sir William 
Thomson at the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, in October, 1884, 
mark an epoch in the higher physical instruction ot this country. They 
were devoted to a discussion of the wave theory of light, considering 
(1) the propagation of a disturbance through an elastic medium, (2) the 
character of molecular vibration, and (3) the influence of molecules on 
the propagation of waves. The lectures dealt largely with the diffi- 
culties of the wave theory, the first enumerated being the difficulty 
of explaining the dependence of velocity of propagation on period of 
vibration, the second the properties of the aether, the third certain 
phenomena of reflection and refraction, and the fourth those of double 
refraction. As to the first difficulty, he devoted a very considerable 
space to Helmholtz's theory, which ascribes dispersion to a compound 
structure of material molecules according to which they have a natural 
period of vibration, suggesting an ingenious mechanical (Helmholtz- 
ThomsoQ) spring and shell molecule to represent it. As to the sether, 
he has no difficulty in reconciling its almost perfect rigidity with almost 
perfect mobility, since the question is merely one of time. The aether 
may be highly elastic for vibrations executed in the 100 or 1,000 million 
millionth of a second, but highly mobile to bodies going through it at 
the rate of 20 miles a second. As to the manner in which the molecule 
imparts its motion to the ether, he says: "The kind of thiug that the 
luminous vibrator consists in seems to me to be a sudden iuitiatiou of 
a set of vibrations and a sequence of vibrations from that iuitiatiou 
which will naturally become of smaller and smaller amplitude. Why 
a sudden start? Because I believe that the light of the natural flame 
or of the arc light, or of any other known source of light, must be the 
result of sudden shocks from a number of vibrators. Take the light 
obtained by striking two quartz pebbles together. You have all seen 
that. There is one of the very simplest sources of light. What sort 
of a thing can the light be that proceeds from striking two <iaartz peb- 

\{. Mis. ir> 37 



578 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

bles together ? Under what circumstances can we conceive a group of 
waves of light to begin gradually and to end gradually? You know 
what takes place in the excitation of a tiddle string or of a tuning fork 
by a bow. The vibrations gradually get up from zero to a maximum, 
and then, when you take the bow off, gradually subside. I cannot see 
anything like that in the source of light. On the contrary, it seems to 
me to be all shocks — a sudden beginning and gradual subsidence." But 
it is the double refraction difficulty which is most serious. When the 
medium is displaced during wave i)ropagation in a doubly refracting 
crystal, the return force must depend on the direction of vibration, and 
not on tbe plane of distortion, as theory indicates. Eankine's suggestion 
of a cavity in the luminiferous ether having a massless, rigid lining, and 
containing a massive, heavy molecule with fluid round it, seemed to solve 
the difficulty. But the form of wave surface deduced from such a hy- 
pothesis does not agree with Fresnel's, as Eayleigh has show n. " It ap- 
pears, then," says Professor Forbes, in his excellent resume of the lectures, 
"that after all the labor which has been expended upon the wave theory 
of light it fails absolutely, and as it seems hopelessly, in two points of 
primary importance. One is the extinction of the ray polarized by re- 
flection ; the other is double refraction. In other matters we have 
difficulties, but we can see a possible means of escape. Here there 
seems to be none." {Nature, March, April, 1885, xxxi, 4G1, 508, GOl.) 

At the Aberdeen meeting of the British Association, Stoney showed 
that the mass of a molecule of hydrogen must be a quantity of the same 
order as a decigram divided by 10^^, i. c, a twenty-fourth decigrammet, 
which is the same as a twenty-fifth gram met. Hence the mass of the 
chemical atom of hydrogen may be taken to be half of the twenty-fifth 
of the grammet. This value is based on the conclusion reached by 
several physicists that the number of molecules in a cubic millimeter of 
a gas at ordinary tempera>tnre and pressure is somewhere about a unit 
eighteen (10"^) 5 from which it can be shown that the number of mole- 
cules per liter must be about a unit twenty-four (lO^*). From this, to- 
gether with the weight of a liter of hydrogen, the above value for the 
mass of a molecule of hydrogen has been deduced. {Nature, jS^ovember, 
1885, XXXIII, 21.) 

In a paper on the identit3" of energy. Lodge has drawn some interest- 
ing conclusions from an important n)emoir by Poynting, presented to 
the Eoyal Society. In this memoir the author introduces '• the idea of 
continuity in the existence of energy ; so that whenever energy is trans- 
ferred from one place to another at a distance it is not to be regarded 
as destroyed at one place and recreated at another, but is to be re- 
garded as transferred, just as so much matter would have to be trans- 
ferred; and accordingly we may seek for it in the intervening space 
and may study the i)aths by which it travels." Lodge regards this new 
form of the doctrine of conservation of energy as much simpler and 
more satisfactory than the old one; and he proves it rigidly and in- 



PHYSICS. •">79 

stantaneonsly from Newton's law of motion (usually stated as three), on 
the one hand, and a denial of action at a distance on the other, thus : "If 
A does work on B it exerts force on it through a certain distance; but 
(Newton's law) B exerts an equal opposite force and (being in contact) 
through exactly the same distance ; hence B does an equal opposite 
amount of work or gains the energy which A loses. The stress between 
A and B is the means of transferring energy from A to B, directly mo- 
tion takes place in the sense AB. And the energy cunnot jump from 
A to B ; it is transferred across their point of contact, and by hypothesis, 
their ' contact' is absolute; there is no intervening gap, microscopic, 
molecular, or otherwise. The energy may be watched at every instant. 
Its existence is continuous ; it possesses identity." Obviously A and B 
cannot be "pieces of matter" in the ordinary sense, since then they 
cannot be in contact. If A and M be contiguous material molecules, 
energy may be transferred from A to M, but not directly ; A cannot act 
on M, cannot do work on it, because of the intervening gap. A can 
transfer its energy to B, B to C, Lo D, and so on, handing on the en- 
erg,y to L, which is in contact with, and can act on, M, doing work on it 
and giving up to it the energy lost by A. A, B, C, t&c, are supposed 
to be successive portions of the i^erfectly continuous space-filling me- 
dium — aether. The distinction between potential and kinetic energy is 
then discussed, and the conclusion stated : (1) Energy cannot be trans- 
ferred without being transformed ; nor conversely can it be transformed 
without being transferred ; and (2) it always transforms itself from 
kinetic to potential or vice versa. " When A does work on B, energy 
is transferred from A to B ; if the energy lost by A is kinetic, that 
gained by B is potential ; if, on the other hand, A loses potential then 
B gains kinetic energy." Hence " the common mode of treating a fall- 
ing weight, saying that its energy gradually transforms itself from 
potential to kinetic, but remains in the stone all the time, is, strictly 
speaking, nonsense. The fact is the stone never had any potential en- 
ergy; no rigid body can have any; the gravitation medium had it, how- 
ever, and kept on transferring it to the stone all the time it was descend- 
ing." Change of form is therefore necessary and universal whenever 
energy is transferred, /. c, whenever any kind of activity is exhibited 
by any known kind of material existence. {Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V,. 
XIX, 482.) 

Groshans has announced a new law connecting the boiling points and 
densities of substances with their atomic composition, which law he calls 
"The law of Density-numbers." These density numbers form a new 
class of constants, and are attributes of the elements; they are whole 
numbers, and each element i)ossesses only one, though two or more 
elements may possess the same number. They increase with the atomic 
weights, bnt are not proportional to them. From the values thus far 
obtained, the author suggests the hypothesis that carbon, oxygen, and 
hydrogen are simple bodies, the other elements being compounds of 



580 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

other simple sul^tances, the number of atoms of which is shown by the 
density number of each element. He enunciates the law in the follow- 
ing simple form : " The densities of substances are proportional to the 
density numbers." Of course it is necessary that the substances com- 
pared should be under similar conditions ; and then the ratio of the 
sum of the density numbers to the density is constant. Thus for a 
series of hydrated crystalline salts of the formula ECI2 (1120)6 this 
ratio varies from 19-85 to 20-00. Various other applications of the law 
are given. {Phil Mag., July, August, 1885, V, xx, 15, 191.) 

Lodge, in his lecture on Dust, at the Montreal meeting of the British 
Association, defined it to be all foreign matter, of whatever kind, sus- 
pended in the air. Its function in causing the blue color of the sky and 
the diffusion of sunlight was discussed. If the atmosphere were purely 
gaseous, holding no minute foreign bodies in suspension, the sun would 
glare down directly with blinding intensity, and objects not in its direct 
rays would be in almost complete shadow. The sun would be set in a 
black firmament, and it would be easy to see the stars at noonday. 
But so far from this, the sun's rays, on reaching our atmosphere, are par- 
tially intercepted, diffused, and scattered by myriads of most minute 
particles, so minute as to be even smaller than the light waves them- 
selves, which act therefore more powerfully on the smallest of these 
waves than on the largest. The light thus scattered has a preponder- 
ance of small waves, owing to the minute size of the scattering parti- 
cles, and hence it affects our sight organ with the sensation of blue. 
The function of dust in causing vapor condensation was then considered, 
and the theory of Aitken illustrated by experiment. Five methods of 
removing dust from the air were mentioned : (1) Filtration through cot- 
ton wool, either alone or mixed with glycerin ; (2) settling, especially 
in hydrogen ; (3) condensing vapor in the air several times ; (4) calcin- 
ing the air, or keeping a hot body in it for some time; and (5) discharg- 
ing electricity into it from a ])oint. He points out that the action of a hot 
body in keeping the dust away from itself is due to molecular bombard- 
ment; Tait, Dewar, and Reynolds having shown that a Crookes bom- 
bardment is effective at ordinary pressures, provided the bodies bom- 
barded are small. Dust particles, being very small, are driven by 
molecular impact away from hot bodies toward cold ones. Hence we 
observe that articles in a room warmed by radiation, and therefore 
warmer than the air of the room, are not likely to become as dusty as 
those in a room warmed by hot air, where the air is warmer than the 
articles. The rapid deposition of dust by electrification was shown by 
discharging the current of a Voss machine from a point into an atmos- 
phere containing magnesium smoke. Thus, possibly, the air is cleared 
by thunder storms, and thus fog might possibly be dissipated at sea. 
{Nature, January, 1885, xxxi,265.) 

Genocchi has published a historical note on the pendulum experiment 
for determining the earth's rotation. Poleni, iu 1669, in noticing a me- 



piiysicvs. 581 

moir of Huygens, says that, in consequence of the earth's rotation, a 
peuduhira could not remain in the same plane during two consecutive 
oscillations. De Sivry, in 1782, in his translation of Pliny, observes 
that the pendulum might be used in place of a compass, " the vessel in 
turning about not altering by this motion the direction of vibration 
once given to the pendulum." In 1837 Poisson, while admitting the 
deflecting influence of the earth's rotation upon a projectile, denied the 
possibility of any deviation whatever for the pendulum ; and in order 
to sustain his opinion, he attempted to prove mathematically that the 
component perpendicular to the oscillatory plane was too small to cause 
any sensible deviation of the pendulum from its plane, or to have any 
appreciable influence on its motion. This opinion was refuted by Binet 
and Plana in 1851. Poncelet, in 1860, showed that the phenomenon 
was much more complicated than had been generally supposed ; and 
finally, W. Dumas and Serret gave the complete theory of the experi- 
ment. {J. Fhys., March, 1885, II, iv, 147.) 

In constructing the reversible pendulum of Bohuenberger, Weber has 
proposed to place the knife edges in such a way that any given varia- 
tion of their distance may have the least possible influence upon the 
duration of oscillation. With a cylindrical rod he finds that this con- 
dition is realized when t= / 'J'0-^045 a ^^^^ when the knife edges are 

V g 

placed symmetrically at a distance from the center x = 0-37835 a; a rep- 
resenting the moment of inertia of the pendulum around its center of 
gravity. The value of a may be calculated geometrically and the length 
of the simple synchronous pendulum I in the formula Z=3'02045 a be 
deduced from a determination of the time t, without having any meas- 
urements of length to make other than those of the geometric dimen- 
sions of the rod. ( Wied. Ann., xxii, 439; J. Fhys., November, 1885, II, 
IV, 510.) 

Oppolzer has obtained, by means of a Eepsold reversion pendulum, 
the provisional value 0-993825 meter for the length of a seconds pendu- 
lum in Vienna, lat. 48° 13' 57", altitude 236 meters. {Ber. Ah. Wien., 
1884, p. 2; J. Phys., April, 1885, II, iv, 184). 

Sakai and Yamaguchi have determined the gravitation constant in 
c. G. s. units at Kagoshima and at Naha, in the Loo Choo Islands, using 
the method employed by Mendenhall in Tokio. The value at Kagoshi- 
ma was 979-561 ± 0-0057, and at Naha 979-165 ± 0-0055. {Am. J. Sd., 
May, 1885, III, xxix, 404.) 

Bartoli has speculated on the mean density of a body containing all 
the known elements in a solid state, either uncombined, or, if partly 
combined, each retaining the density belonging to it in the solid state. 
He makes three suppositions: (1) The masses of all the substances 
equal; (2) the masses such that the corresponding volumes shall be 
equal, and (3) the masses in the ratio of the atomic weights. In this 
way he arrives at the mean densities 2-698, 7-027, and 5-776, this last 



582 SCIENTIFIC i7i:roKM) von issr>. 

value, as he points out, coming very near that got by Cavendish for the 
mean density of the earth, which was 5'67. {Nature, October, 1885, 
XXXII, 635.) 

Wilsiug has revived the use of the pendulum for determining the 
earth's mean density, and has shown that the necessary sensitiveness 
may be secured by adjusting so that the center of gravity comes close 
under the axis of oscillation. In his experimental apparatus fixed leaden 
balls, each weighing 300 grams, were placed at the ends of a prismatic 
rod of thin sheet iron, the steel knife edge being in the middle of the 
rod and resting on agate i)laues. After adjustment to equilibrium, the 
attracting masses were brought near the leaden spheres and the deflection 
read by means of a mirror and scale. From the value thus obtained the 
ratio of the deflecting attraction to the constant of gravitation can be 
deduced. By reversing the direction of the deflecting force the total 
deviation is doubled. An improved apparatus, in i)rocess of construc- 
tion, will, it is expected, give accurate results. {Ber. A]c. Berl., January, 
1885; FJiil. ilfa^., March, 1885, Y, xix, 210; Avi. J. Sci., May, 1885, III, 
XXIX, 402.) 

Konig and Kicharz have suggested an improvement of Von Jolly's 
method for determining the earth's mean density. A cubical block of 
lead, about 2 meters in the edge and weighing 100,000 kilograms, is so 
placed that the center of its upper horizontal surface is exactly beneath 
the middle knife edges of an extremely delicate balance. Beneaih the 
center of each scale-pan the block is bored vertically through, and two 
other scale-pans are suspended below the block by means of rods pass- 
ing through these openings. A weight iu one of the ujiper pans is bal- 
anced by weights in the opposite lower pan. The former is acted on by 
the earth's attraction plus that of the block, the latter by the difference 
of the two. Hence, the weights in the lower pan are greater than those 
in the upper by twice the attraction of the block. A second weighing 
is then made, the other two pans being now used. The difference of 
the two weighings gives four times the attraction of the block. {Ber. 
Ale. Berl, December, 1884; Phil Mag., February, 1885, V, xix, 148; 
Nature, January, March, 1885, xxxi, 200, 408, 484.) 

MECHANICS. 

1. Of Solids. 

In a paper read at the Aberdeen meeting of the British Association, 
Osborne Reynolds discussed a new and very fundamental property of 
granular masses composed of rigid particles in contact, which property 
he calls Dllatancy. It is exhibited in any arrangement of particles where 
change of bulk is dependent upon change of shape. In fluids change 
of shape and volume are independent, but in solids they are sometimes 
not separable. With granular masses change of shape always produces 
change of volume, and if change of volume is prevented any change of 



PITYSICS. 51^.^ 

form is impossible. Thus a sack of corn is flexible ou end, but becomes 
hard \yhen placed on its side, and its shape will not alter. But if the 
sack be made of rubber, since the boundary of the granular mass is 
now extensible, it remains perfectly flexible in all positions. However, 
if it be possible with an extensible envelope to impose a maximum vol- 
ume upon the contents, effects similar to those obtained with the inex- 
tensible boundary may be expected. This can be done, for example, 
by placing No. G shot in a rubber bag and adding a certain amount 
of water. If the quantity of water be such that the spaces between 
the granules when in close arrangement are all filled by it, while 
with a wide arrangement the amount is not enough, a point will be 
reached in passing from the first to the second arrangement such that 
any further change of shape and consequently of volume would produce 
a vacuum. When this stage is reached the wholemass becomes perfectly 
hard. When the foot presses upon wet sand, that portion of it imme- 
diately surrounding the foot becomes momentarily dry. The sand being 
completely filled with water, the pressure of the foot causes dilatation, 
and so more water is required. This is drawn in from the surrounding 
sand leaving it dry until a sufficient supply has been drawn up from 
below. On raising the foot the sand contracts again and the excess of 
water escapes again wetting the sand under and around the foot. The 
author conceived that the proi)erty of dilataucy placed a hitherto un- 
known mechanical contrivance at the command of those who would ex- 
plain the fundamental arrangement of the universe ; and he proceeded 
to explain how bodies in such a medium would, in virtue of the dilation 
caused in the medium, attract each other at a distance with a force de- 
pending on the distance which might well correspond with gravitation. 
Further, owing to the existence of a region close to the body in which 
the density varies several times from maximum to minimum, the mutual 
force might undergo a change from attraction to repulsion, and this 
more than once, as the bodies approach a condition which seems to 
account for cohesion and observed molecular force far better than any 
previous hypothesis. {Phil. Mag., December, 1885, V, xx, 4G9; Nature, 
October, 1885, xxxii, 535.) 

Von Helmhollz has suggested an improved method of measuring the 
modulus of elasticity of solids. Ordinarily the bar is firmly supported at 
its ends and the flexure produced by loading it in the middle is measured 
with the cathetometer. Under these circumstances, however, a consid- 
erable error is introduced by the compression at the points of support. 
To eliminate this Von Helmholtz uses two perpendicular mirrors at the 
ends of the bar, their reflecting surfaces being directed inwards. A 
scale is placed opposite one end of the bar and a reading telescope op- 
posite the other. The image of the scale is seen in the one mirror as 
reflected in the opposite one. As the bar is loaded and becomes flexed 
the image is displaced to an amount proportional to the angular changes 
of the mirrors. The amount of flexure for different loads is a simple 



584 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

matter of observation therefore, and is independent of the effect of the 
pressure on the supporting edges. Konig proposes the use of the anal- 
ogous method of Kirchhoff for determining Poisson's constants ; only, 
instead of using two horizontal mirrors and two telescopes, two parallel 
mirrors inclined at an angle of 45^ should be used at the two ends of 
the bar, with one telescope. In this way the moduli of elasticity and 
of torsion may be measured and the constants in question calculated. 
{Nature^ August, 1885, xxxii, 360.) 

Frederick Siemens has improved greatly the i^rocesses for tempering 
glass, and consequently the product obtained. The scientific principle 
underlying these consists simply in keeping the whole body of the glass 
at a uniform temj)erature during the operations of heating and cooling. 
The De la Bastie process is wrong in principle, since it leaves the glass 
in a state of tension ; while the glass treated by the new process is al- 
most entirely free from internal stress. Three distinct processes are 
made use of; in the first, called press-hardening, the very best quality 
of glass is used. It is cut into the proposed shapes, softened in the 
furnace, and cooled between metal plates, the degree of hardening de- 
pending upon the temperature to which the glass is heated and the 
rate at which it is cooled. It may be cooled so rapidly that a diamond 
will not scratch it, a result obtained in the case of sheet and plate glass 
for the most part, either plain or decorated ; increasing its strength 
eightfold. For sheets of ordinary thickness, the heating occupies a 
minute and the cooling half a minute, and this without injury to the 
glass. The second process, called semi-hardeniug, is applied to articles 
not adapted to the press. These are heated up to the verge of softening 
and then placed in an iron casing having i^rojecting ribs to give the 
necessary support, the whole being cooled in the open air. - The strength 
of the glass is increased about three times. The glass made in the third 
process is called hard-cast glass, and is used for grindstones, sleepers, 
car-rails, and floor plates. It is made in a continuous melting furnace 
and run into molds made of imperfectly conducting materials, such as 
mixtures of porcelain, glass pots, heavy spar, magnetic iron, &c., pul- 
verized and then molded as in casting iron. After the glass is run into 
the mold the whole is heated up and rapidly cooled. To show its homo- 
geneity a tuning fork was made of it which gave a clear musical note. 
{Nature^ March, 1885, xxxi, 413.) 

Sherman has called attention to the relation obtained by Weber be- 
tween the residual elasticity of glass and its chemical composition, the 
former value being deduced from the observed dej^ression of the column 
after heating. Plotting the results obtained, the ordinates represent- 
ing depression in tenths of a degree and the abscissas the ratio of pot- 
ash to soda, Sherman notes the fact that while the greater portion of 
the observations may be represented by a smooth curve, yet several of 
the points lie farther from the curve than can be accounted for by errors 
of observation ; the composition of the glass being identically the same 



pHv.sics. r>85 

for some of these points and for some lying in tbe curve. Except in 
one case, the departures are less than the maximum differences afforded 
by the depressions observed on a single thermometer. In this case, the 
only one where the depression is diminished, the lime, soda, and potash 
exist in the glass in nearly equal amounts. {Am. J. ScL, May, 1885, 
III, XXIX, 385.) 

Bartoli has sought to show the non-permeability of glass to gases by 
means of a polarization test. A glass trough divided vertically in the 
middle was filled with a solution of sodium sulphate. On opposite 
sides of this partition were fastened thin gold electrodes, a second elec- 
trode, also, of gold, being in each cell. The two electrodes of one of these 
cells were connected with a delicate galvanometer, those of the other 
with a strong battery. But no effect was produced upon the galvanom- 
eter. Since any trace of either oxygen or hydrogen by passing through 
the glass would have polarized one of the galvanometer electrodes and 
produced a current, the author concludes that the glass is not permea- 
ble to gases. {11 Nuovo Cimento, III, xvi, 78 ; J. Phys., December, 1885, 
II, IV, 556.) 

Trowbridge and McKae have determined by several methods the co- 
efficient of elasticity of ice. Bars prepared by freezing water in metallic 
tubes were vibrated transversely and made to record their vibrations 
simultaneously with those of a tuning fork of known pitch. The values 
of E in two experiments were 66 x 10^ and 55 x 10^ absolute units. 
Bars of ice were cut from a pond, supported at the ends, weighted, and 
the deflection measured by a cathetometer. The values in the four 
series of observations were 57 x lO^', 65 x 10^, 71 x 10^, 96 x 1(F, 
the mean being 72 x 10^ By the method of longitudinal vibrations, 
the pitch of the note being 0.3 of a semi tone of C sharp, the modulus 
for a bar of ice 138 centimeters long was found to be 86 x 10^ absolute 
units. The calculated velocity of sound in ice is therefore 2,900 meters 
per second, or about nine times the velocity in air. {Am. J. Sci., May, 
1885, III, xxix, 349.) 

Trotter has communicated to the Royal Society the results of some 
experiments made at the Grindelwald glacier to ascertain whether di- 
rect evidence of shearing could be obtained in ice under the action of 
forces produced by the action of gravity. Bars of ice were passed 
through holes in three parallel blocks of wood nearly in contact, the 
two outer ones being hung to a frame, while a weight was hung to the 
middle one. In a final experiment a shear of about 0.075<^'" was observed 
after the action during seventeen days of a shearing force of rather more 
than 200 grams per square centimeter. He therefore thinks that " there 
is little doubt that, under conditions closely resembling those in the in- 
terior of a glacier, and under the influences of forces comparable with 
those which gravity is capable of exerting in a glacier, hand specimens 
of ice shear in the same manner as a truly viscous solid would do." 
{Katnre, Fpbninry, 1885, xxxi, 328.) 



58(1 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Morgau has made a series of experiments on the viscosity of ice, which, 
taken in connection with results obtained by other experimenters, are 
of great interest. In the first a cylinder of ice 3 inches in diameter 
was supported on a board, and over it a wire was hung loaded with a 
total weight of 5 pounds. The whole was placed in the snow chamber of 
a refrigerating apparatus for six and a half hours at a temperature never 
above — 12°. No dent was observable on the surface of the cylinder. 
The second experiment was similar, the weight being increased to 10 
pounds and the time to eight hours, but the result was the same. In 
the third, the weight was 14 pounds and the time seventeen and a half 
hours, but no indentation was observable. In the fourth experiment a 
bar of ice 2^ inches wide and 1^ thick was supported on bearers 13^ 
inches apart, from Monday noon to Sfiturday noon without perceptible 
flexure. In the fifth the bar was weighted in the middle for the same 
time with 7 pounds, but with the same result. In the sixth, 18 pounds 
weight acting for the same time gave no jierceptible deflection. In the 
seventh a similar though thinner bar, varying from -025 to -875 of an 
inch in thickness, was weighted for four days with 7 pounds and for 
two days with 7 pounds additional. No bending could be detected by 
measurement. The author cites experiments at other temperatures, and 
concludes that the viscosity of ice is considerable at temperatures at 
and above the melting point, is much less below but near this point, 
is very slight between —3.5° and —12°, and is nil below —12°. {NaUire, 
May, 1885, xxxil, IG.) 

Fromme has observed that the purely mechanical interpretation of 
the change of proi^erties which steel undergoes by hardening, in which 
the pressure which the external layer suddenly cooled exerts on the 
internal portions, plays a prominent part, leads to consequences con- 
cerning the density of a tempered mass of steel which are not always 
in accord with experiment. It must be admitted that this mechanical 
action produces so close an approximation of the molecules that a con- 
secutive chemical action results, i. e., the combination of the iron and 
the carbon. In this way it is not difficult to see that slow cooling, 
effected under a considerable pressure, can produce the physical effects 
of hardening, as the experiments of Clemandot and Lan have shown. 
( Wied. Ann., xxii, 371 ; J. PJiys., December, 1885, II, iv, 583.) 

2. Of Liquids. 

In conjunction with Vicentini, Pagliani has determined the coefficient 
of compressibility of water at various temperatures. At 0° it is 
0-0000503 ; at 10°, 0-0000470 ; at 20°, 0-0000445 ; at 30°, 0-0000425 ; at 
40°, 0-0000400; at 50°, 0-0000397; at 60°, 00000389; at 70°, 0-0000390; 
at 80O, 0-0000396 ; at 90°, 0-0000402 ; and at 100°, 0-0000410. The same 
author, working with Palazzo, finds the compressibility of ethji alcohol 
to be represented by the empirical formula Att=A'o (IH ^003177^+ 



PHYSICS. r)87 

0-0000550^-). With respect to mixtures, the authors find (1) that the 
addition of small quantities of alcohol lowers the compressibilitycoefii- 
cieut of water; (2) that this diminutiou continues to increase until the 
alcohol constitutes 23 per cent.; (3) that for mixtures containing less 
than 19 per cent, of alcohol, the coefficient diminishes as the tempera- 
ture rises from zero upward, there being- for each mixture a tempera- 
ture where it is a minimum; and (4) that the temi)erature of minimum 
compressibility is always lower for these mixtures than for water. 
There appears to be no relation between the temi)erature of maximum 
density and minimum compressibility of these mixtures. {J. Phys., 
August, 1885, II, IV, 371.) 

Terquem has translated from Vitruvius an accouut of the process by 
which Archimedes determined the composition of the crown of Hiero, 
which differs from that ordinarily received. After the discovery in the 
bath, he caused to be made two masses equal in weight to that of the 
crown, the one of gold the other of silver. Then having filled com- 
pletely with water a vessel of known capacity he plunged into it the 
mass of silver. A quantity of water equal to the volume of the silver 
overflowed. Kemoving the metal, he poured water into the vessel until 
it was again full, measuring the quantity of water thus used. In this 
manner he ascertained the volume of water corresponding to a known 
weight of silver. This experiment was then repeated with the mass of 
gold, the volume of which was found proportionally less. On immers- 
ing the crown in the same vessel, he observed that a greater volume of 
water overflowed than was displaced by the mass of gold of the same 
weight; and from the quantity which overflowed in the former case over 
that in the latter he calculated the amount of silver which the crown 
contained. Hence it would appear that Archimedes did not make use 
of the upward pressure of liquids in this experiment, as is generally as- 
sumed, but employed a process analogous in principle if not identical 
with that of the specific gravity bottle. {J. Phys., August, 1885, II, iv, 
384.) 

Schiff has devised a simple form of ai)paratus for determining the 
specific density of liquids at high temperatures based on the j^rinciple 
of the weight thermometer. The bottle used, which has a capacity of 
8 or lO''' •=•, has a recurved neck over which is a helmet ground air tight. 
It is filled with the liquid and weighed, then submitted to the required 
temperature and the excess of liquid allowed to overflow into the helmet. 
A second weighing after cooling gives the weight of the liquid reuiain- 
ing and hence of the overflow, from which the density of the liquid at 
the given temperature is calculated. {Ber. Berl. Chem. Oes., June, 1885, 
XVIII, 1538; Am. J. ScL, November, 1885, III, xxx, 380.) 

The phenomena of capillarity have received very considerable atten- 
tion. Worthington has reviewed the method proposed by Quincke for 
determining surface tensions from the dimensions of flat drops and bub- 
bles, and has shown that the higher results given by this method over 



588 'SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

those given by capillary tubes are due in the main to two erroueous as- 
sumptions, which may cause an error of even 10 per cent. He gives a 
table of the corrected values for ten liquids. {Phil. Mag., July, 1885, 
V, XX, 51.) In a paper on the theory of pendent drops the same author 
shows that the value of the surface tension of a liquid may be deduced 
from the measurement of the value of the inclination of the tangent of 
the curved surface of a pendent drop to the axis, measured at a single 
level, that level being so chosen that the tangent is there vertical. 
(Phil. Mag., January, 1885, V, xix, 46; J. Phys., October, 1885, II, iv, 
466.) 

Worthiugton has devised a capillary multiplier, which consists simply 
of a rectangular strip of platinum foil of known length rolled into a 
cylindrical coil, the successive convolutions being kept separate at a dis- 
tance of about 2™™ by means of a strip of glass beads in the upper por- 
tion of the coil. The lower edges of the convolutions are in the same 
plane, and, as when in use, the coil hangs from one end of a balance 
beam, this plane is horizontal. By immersing the lower edge in any 
liquid and measuring by weights in the opposite scale-pan the pull on 
the coil the surface tension may be calculated. {Phil. Mag., January, 
1885, V, XIX, 43; J. Phys., October, 1885, II, iv, 467.) 

Rother has measured the capillary constant of several saline solutions, 
and also of various mixtures of these solutions. ( Wied. Ann., xxi, 576; 
J. Phys., November, 1885, II, iv, 520.) The paper of Reinold and Riicker 
on the influence of an electric current in modifying the rate of thinning 
of a liquid film has appeared in full. {Phil. Mag., February, 1885, V, 
XIX, 94.) Riicker has delivered a lecture on liquid films before the 
Royal Institution, giving a r6sum6 of the investigations on this subject 
made by himself in conjunction with Reinold. {Nature, July, 1885, 
XXXII, 210.) 

Warburg and Sachs have studied the influence of increasing density 
on the viscosity of liquids, and have calculated the coefiBcient of friction 
from the compressibility. This coefficient increases for carbon dioxide, 
ether, and benzene, and diminishes for water. This latter fact was es- 
tablished by Rontgen in 1881. ( Wied. Ann., xxii, 510, 518 ; J. Phys., 
November, 1885, II, iv, 519.) 

Newall has investigated the phenomena of colliding water-jets and 
has obtained some curious results. If two horizontal jets of water, 
issuing from similar glass nozzles and fed from two glass bottles, be 
made to collide at a small angle the jets, if tolerably clean and dust- 
free water be used, rebound from one another, but may be made to 
unite by connecting the terminals of a battery with the water in the 
two bottles. The surface of separation between the colliding jets is ver- 
tical and shows the colors of thin plates with remarkable brilliancy, due 
undoubtedly to a thin film of air, as Rayleigh has shown the two to be 
electrically insulated from one another. The author investigated the 
effect of a gradual increase of electromotive force upon these colors. 



PHYSICS. 589 

and found that they remained constant until coalescence was produced, 
and then disappeared suddenly; thus eliminating conclusively the hy- 
pothesis that the action of electricity in promoting union may be ascribed 
to the additional pressure called into play by electrical attraction of the 
opposed water surfaces acting as plates of a condenser. {Phil. Mag.y 
July, 1885, V, XX, 31.) 

3, Of Gases. 

An interesting discussion on the kinetic theory of gases took place in 
the mathematical and physical section of the British Association at the 
Aberdeen meeting in September. The discussion was opened by Crum 
Brown, who stated the difficulties of the theory under two heads : First 
the diflicuUies connected with the doctrine that energy communicated 
from without to a gas is equally shared among the whole of the degrees 
of freedom of the molecules ; and, second, the difficulties connected with 
the doctriDe that energy of each kind is distributed among the mole- 
cules according to some form of the law of probability. Under the first 
head he called attention to the fact that the ratio of the specific heat of 
mercury vapor at constant pressure to that at constant volume is 5 : 3, 
which gives on the dynamical theory but three degrees of freedom to the 
molecules, and these must be the three translational freedoms. If to 
prevent rotation the molecules be regarded as perfectly smooth, rigid, 
and spherical, the radiation producing the spectrum cannot be accounted 
for. In diatomic gases the ratio is 7 : 5, giving three translatory and 
two rotational freedoms. But here again the vibration of the atoms 
is not accounted for, either as parts of the molecule or individually. 
Boltzmanu's theorem asserts that the energy of a molecule is equally 
distributed among the difi'ereut degrees of freedom. Hence, if in addi- 
tion to the six degrees of freedom of a rigid body in space the mole- 
cules have twenty or thirty others, it would seem that the dynamical 
theory must be abandoned, as there would not be sufficient energy for 
translational motion. The second class of difticulties arises when it is 
supposed that the energy is distributed among the molecules according 
to some form of the law of probability. For then in a mixture of gases 
there would always be some molecules in a condition favorable for com- 
bination. Moreover, there should be no such sharp temperature and 
pressure limits for combination, such as exist between phosphorus and 
oxygen, for example. And further, oxygen and hydrogen may be kept 
for a long time at a temperature near that of combination without any 
union taking place. Li veing maintained that the difficulties encountered 
arose from the assumptions of Boltzmann's theorem, which is not a neces- 
sary part of the kinetic theory. It is quite possible that mercury vapor 
has no sensible vibrational energy at the temi^eratures at which its spe- 
cific heat has been measured. The more perfect gases have at ordinary 
temperatures much less vibrational than translational energy; so that 
they may have only one or at most two modes of vil)ration. Sir Willianj 



590 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Tliomsou had never seen any reason at all for believing in Boltzuiaun's 
theorem. J. J. Thomson said that he thought the reason that the value 
of the specific heats of a gas, as found by experiment, did not agree 
with the value given by Boltzmann's theorem was because Boltzmann's 
theorem was not true. Hicks stated that to him one of the greatest 
objections to this theorem was the difficulty in believing that the mean 
energy of any vibration whatever of an atom was susceptible of unlim- 
ited increase. Osborne Reynolds remarked that the kinetic theory is 
supposed to be true only in so far as the assumptions on which it is 
based represent the actual conditions. In any gas the mean energies of 
translation in which there is most rapid communication and no appre- 
ciable resistance will be much greater than the mean energies of vibra- 
tion to which there is all the resistance consequent on the radiation and 
in all probability bat little communication, (TV^a^wre, August, October, 
1885, XXXII, 352, 533.) 

De Roinilly has modified the form of vacuum jet which he suggested 
in 1881, and to which he gave the name of pneole. In its original form a 
jet of water or of mercury was thrown upward from a circular orifice into 
a second and similar one placed above it, carrying the surrounding air 
with it. Since the interior parts of the solid column contributed nothing 
to the effect, the periphery alone being useful, the author has placed 
a solid cylinder within the jet so as to make the opening annular. The 
liquid is thrown up by centrifugal action. A mercury apparatus of this 
ilescription, turned by hand, made a barometric vacuum in a globe of 
(3QQC. c. capacity in about six minutes. (</. Fhys., August, 1885, II, iv, 
3G6.) 

Wilde has made a series of experiments on the velocity with which 
air rushes into a vacuum. Theory assumes that air rushes into a vac- 
uum with the velocity which a heavy body would acquire by falling 
from the top of a homogeneous atmosphere, i. e., a velocity of 1,332 
feet a second. The apparatus consisted of two strong cast-iron cylin- 
ders, the snmller having a capacity of 573 cubic inches and the larger 
of 8,459 cubic inches. To the smaller a compression pump and pressure 
gauge were attached, to the larger an exhausting pump and a vacuum 
gauge. The air was discharged from the smaller cylinder into the 
large one through a disk of tinned iron 0-75 inch in diameter, and 0-01 
inch thick, pierced in the center with a circular hole 0-02 inch in diam- 
eter. The vacuum M\as G inch mercury, and the pressure varied from 
10 to 135 pounds i)er square inch. The maximum velocity observed 
was 1,225 feet per second, and this only at the commencement, the 
values in general being considerably less than theory indicates, though 
at forty atmospheres the theoretical velocity would be reached. Experi- 
ments made on the discharge of the compressed air into the atmosphere 
showed that the times of each discharge from 120 pounds to 15 pounds 
effective j)ressure are identical with the times of discharge from 135 
pounds to 30 pounds absolute pressure into a vacuum. Hence the au- 



PHYSICS. 



r)9l 



thor formulates the general proposition (bat the atmosphere acts as a 
vacuum, and offers no resistance to the discharge of air of all i)ressures 
above two absolute atmospheres. {Phil. Mag., December, 1885, V, jx, 
531.) 

Hoffmann has determined the law of the flow of air through a capil- 
hiry tube too short for it to obey Poiseuille's law. He concludes (1) 
that the principal cause of the failure of this law under these circum- 
stances is to be sought for in the perturbations produced at the two 
orifices, particularly at the entering one; and (2) that if the times of 
flow of any mass of air whatever be taken as ordinates, and the lengths 
of the tubes (of constant diameter) through which the air flows as ab- 
scissas, very flat curves are obtained which ascend rapidly and are in- 
termediate between a straight line and a hyperbola. ( Wied. Aim., xxi, 
470; J. Phys., November, 1885, II, iv, 512.) 

Hausemann has experimented to determine the law of the diffusion 
of gases through a porous j)artition, the gases used being oxygen and 
hydrogen. The diffusiometer was constructed so as to allow the diffu- 
sion to take place under considerably higher pressures, for a single gas, 
than had been hitherto used. From the data obtained the calculation 
of the difl'usion-coeflBcient for the two gases was made without diffi- 
culty. Experiment furnished perfectly concordant numbers, but the 
calculation of the coeflicient of reciprocal diffusion by means of these 
coefficients did not succeed. Values were found for this coefficient of 
iuterdiffusion which decreased with the time and the upper limit of 
which is considerably smaller than the coefficient measured directly by 
Loschmidt. Hence Stefan's theory is not confirmed ; it implies the 
hypothesis that diffusion is effected in the vacuities of porous bodies 
according to the same law as in open space. But it is evident that the 
porous partition exerts a special action which has not been taken into 
consideration by Stefan. {Wied. Ann., xxi, 545; J. P/j^s., November, 
1885, II, IV, 518.) 

Amagat has repeated his experiments on the compressibility of air 
and of nitrogen with reference to the use of these gases in manometers, 
extending the range of pressure, which in the earlier series was never 
less than 20 to 30 atmospheres, down to that of 1 atmosphere. These 
experiments were made in one the towers of the church at Fouvieres, 
where a clear height of 63 meters was available. The method was es- 
sentially the same as that used in the Veri)illeux shaft, though with 
some improvements. The results agreed perfectly with previous deter- 
minations, the values for nitrogen not varying in general by one 
thousandth of the total pressure. But the discrepancies with Cailletet's 
figures still exist, amounting between 40 and GO meters to more than 2 
meters of mercury. A table is given of the product pv for nitrogen and 
air at the temperature of 10° and at pressures varying from 0-7G to 65 
meters of mercury. Within these limits either of these gases may bo 
used for filling manometers. Between 85 and 430 atmospheres nitrogen 



592 I^CrENTIFIC RECORD FOR i«85. 

is preferable J while above 430 atmospheres hydrogen is preferable, 
the curve of 'pv being a straight line for this gas. (C jR., xoix, 1017 ; 
Phil. Mag., February, 1885, V, xix, 150.) 

Bottomley has communicated to the Eoyal Society a preliminary note 
on the condensation of gases at the surface of glass. A quantity of 
non-tubular spun glass was placed in a glass tube which was then ex- 
hausted with a Sprengel pump till the exhaustion, as shown by the Mac- 
Leod gauge, was three teu-millionths of an atmosphere. At the end of 
an hour the vacuum remained sensibly the same, the temperature of the 
room being about 14°. While the mercury was flowing through for the 
third time the tube containing the glass was heated with a Bunsen 
flame. The hammering produced by the falling mercury at once ceased 
and the MacLeod gauge showed a considerable increase of pressure. The 
action of the pump was continued, and the temperature raised as high 
as the tube would bear in order to remove all the adhering gas. The 
collecting tube was then removed and the gas contained in it analyzed. 
The quantity was only 0-45<^ <= and it consisted of carbon dioxide 8-24 
per cent., oxygen 22*76 per cent., and nitrogen 69 per cent. The fibers 
of the spun glass were measured and found to be fairly uniform and 7-015 
hundredths of a millimeter in average diameter. By comparative 
weighing the number of fibers in the tube was found to be 6,370. Their 
average length was 10-25*='". Hence their total surface was 1,448^^- <'°'. 
In a second experiment 15,500 glass fibers were used, having a total 
surface of 3,527«*i- '='°. The gas given off measured 0-41<^<'- of which 78-6 
per cent, was carbon dioxide, the remainder being oxygen (10-5 per 
cent.) and nitrogen (89-5 per cent.). This large amount of carbon di- 
oxide is difficult to account for unless it was taken up by the glass at 
the time it was spun. {Nature, March, 1885, xxxi, 423.) 

Kayser, in a note to the Physical Society of Berlin, calls attention to 
Bunsen's paper explaining the discrepancies between his own results 
and those of Kayser regarding the absorption of carbon dioxide by glass 
surfaces. Bunsen has now shown that the glass threads, even after dry 
air had been passed over them for a long time, still retained a layer of 
water which was thinner the higher the temperature, but was not entirely 
dissipated until the temperature reached 500°. Hence the absorption 
observed by Bunsen, and which appeared to continue indefinitely, would 
seem to have been an absorption by this layer of water, whereas in 
Kayser's experiments, in which the glass threads had been freed from all 
adhering matters by boiling oil, the carbon dioxide had been absorbed 
by the smooth glass itself. {Nature, May, 1885, xxxii, 72.) 

ACOUSTICS. 

Neyreneuf has determined the velocity of sound in steam by a method 
based upon certain observations of Weber and Savart. A longitudi- 
nally vibrating reed is attached to the end of a cylindrical draw-tube 
18""" in diameter through which the air passes to t-lirow it into vibra- 



PHYSICS. 593 

tion. The reed speaks or is silent for certain definite variations in the 
length of the draw-tube; the sum of the two consecutive intervals cor- 
responding to sound and silence being equal to the wave length of the 
sound given by the reed. Any change in the velocity of the air current 
modifies both the intervals, but their sum remains absolutely the same. 
With a draw-tube which may be extended through 3 meters, a series of 
closely concordant measurements of the lengthening and shortening 
may be rapidly made, whose mean value is closely approximate. Since 
Biot has shown that the proper sound of a reed is independent of the 
nature of the gas acting upon it, it suffices simply to sound this reed 
with different gases in order to compare directly the velocities of sound 
in them, which are proportional to their wave lengths. The relative 
values obtained were, for air 27'5 to 32 ; carbon dioxide, 22-5 to 25 ; illumi- 
nating gas, 42, and hydrogen 113. The mean of nine closely concordant 
experiments gave 40-48 for the wave length in steam at 100°, the calcu- 
lated value being 41-089. (J. Phys., December, 1885, II, iv, 550.) 

Mercadier has continued his studies on the laws of vibration of circu- 
lar plates. He concludes (1) that it is not possible in practice to con- 
struct disks of iron or steel of a thickness less than one millimeter which 
shall give sounds calculated in advance from their dimensions; and 
(2) that the mathematical theory of circular vibrating plates is not af- 
fected by this, since the differences between the calculated and the exper- 
imental results are explained by circumstances difficult to introduce 
into formulas. In all cases the more the thickness increases the closer 
is the accord between theory and experiment. Hence, in verifying the 
theory anew, it will be necessary to experiment on disks of small radius 
and of sufficient thickness. {J. Phys., December, 1885, II, iv, 541.) 

Semmola has observed that if the conductors of an influence machine 
are connected by means of two wires 5 meters long with two binding 
screws on opposite sides of a brass plate 1 millimeter in thickness, 
resting on an ebonite funnel, and the path of the current is broken so 
that sparks strike across, the plate begins to sound. A Geissler tube 
or a lead wire may be interposed in the break without destroying the 
effect, or a wire containing the break may be led to earth from one of 
the binding screws. The sound is louder if the upper end of this wire 
is held at a short distance from the connecting post, so that sparks pass. 
The wires from the machine may even be connected with a second metal 
plate parallel to and at a distance from the other one, the sound being- 
strengthened by connecting this plate to earth, and slightly by interpos- 
ing a glass plate. If the wires be connected with the insulated wire of a 
sonometer, instead of the brass plate, no sound is heard unless an ebon- 
ite ear-trumpet is placed on the resonant box. {Beibliitter Phys., IX, 
671; Phil Mag,, December, 1885, V, xx, 548.) 

Le Conte Stevens has suggested an improvement in the method of pro- 
jecting acoustic curves optically. He uses the well-known method of 
Lissajous, but instead of throwing the beam reflected from the mirro)' 

ii. Jili). i^ 66 



594 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

of the second fork directly on the screen, he receives it on an oscillating 
or revolving mirror, which sends it to the screen. If either fork vibrate 
alone, the curve is the simple sinusoid corresponding to its rate ; while 
if both are put in vibration the compound curve characteristic of the 
interval is obtained. If the ratios are exact, the form of the curve de- 
pends on the difference of phase and is constant. If they are not exact, 
interference takes place and the beats are seen to have their optical ex- 
pression. {Am. J. Sci., March, 1885, III, xxix, 234.) 

Felici has suggested the following arrangement for showing Lissajous 
figures by means of vibrating strings. A piano wire, something more 
than a meter long, is strung horizontally in such a way that the tension 
can be varied at will. Upon it is fixed vertically by means of a little 
cement a card in which a narrow horizontal slit has been cut. Behind 
this wire a second similar wire is placed vertically exactly opposite the 
center of the slit in the card. The tension of both cords is so regulated 
that their vibration ratios are simple. On vibrating them both simul- 
taneously in parallel vertical planes, so that the two vibrations are per- 
pendicular to one another, and on throwing a beam of light through the 
point of intersection, the image on a screen formed by means of a lens 
shows the characteristic Lissajous curve in black within a bright rect- 
angle. {11 Nuovo Cimento, xvi, 160; J. Phys.y December, 1885, II, it, 
557.) 

In order to facilitate the determination of the number of beats given 
by a vibrating body witb a fork of known pitch, Israileflf has constructed 
a pendulum the vibrations of which can be regulated to coincide with 
the beats observed. For this purpose he displaces a weight micromet- 
rically along the rod of the pendulum, prolonged for this purpose above 
the axis of suspension. An empirical graduation permits direct read- 
ing: of the number of vibrations to be added to or subtracted from the 
number of the vibrations made by the fork in order to obtain those 
of the sounding body. In Kussia the bells in church towers are fixed 
and are struck by their tongues acting as hammers. To produce an 
agreeable effect, the bells must be so tuned that they yield exactly 
the harmonics of the same fundamental tone. It is for this purpose 
that the above device was constructed. Isralieff has himself made the 
tuning forks for comparison. The set begins at 440 vibrations and con- 
tinues to 880, increasing regularly by 8 vibrations, tuned with great 
care. To lower the tone the central portions of the bell are turned off 
on a lathe, and to raise the tone, the peripheral portions, until the 
proper tone is reached. {J. Soc. Phys.-Chim. Busse, xvi, 1; J. Phys., 
December 1885, II, iv, 588.) 

In 1879 Mayer devised a method of measuring with great accuracy 
the vibration periods of tuning forks, the details of which have only now 
been published. It consists, first, in making the tuning fork, to which 
an exceedingly fine light style is attached, describe its own vibrations 
on a revolving cylinder covered with smoked paper ; and, second, in de- 



rfiYsica. 595 

termining the exact number of vibrations made per second by means of 
a spark produced between the tuning-fork style and the metal cylinder 
whenever contact is established in an electrical circuit by means of a sec- 
onds pendulum. This pendulum is provided with a triangular platinum 
point, which as it vibrates cuts a small and rigid mercury globule on an 
adjustable iron cup. The pendulum and mercury globule are in the 
primary circuit of an inductorium, the fork and cylinder in the second- 
ary circuit. It is essential that the discharge should not be multiple, 
but should consist of only a single spark, a result secured by varying the 
strength of the current in the primary circuit and the size of the con- 
denser in the secondary. The author used this method not only to deter- 
mine the absolute pitch of tuning forks, but also to determine the abso- 
lute constancy of the pitch with decreasing amplitude, and, in conjunc- 
tion with the method of beats, to study the effect of temperature on 
pitch. He concludes that a Koenig fork gains or loses 2T5-^i- part of 
a vibratory period by a change of temperature of 1° F. The effect of 
the scrape of the style on the vibration of the fork was also measured 
and found to be —'026 vibration. The results of his determinations of 
the pitch of five European forks of various standards are given in the 
memoir, and also some results of the use of the above method as a chro- 
noscope. (Mem. Nat. Acad. Sci., 1885, iii, 45.) 

Ellis has given an account of the method of Mayer, and has compared 
the results obtained by it with those of other methods, especially those 
of Scheibler, of MacLeod, and of Koenig. The five forks sent to Mayer 
had been measured by himself with Scheibler's tonometer, and also by 
MacLeod. The results agreed within 0.1 vibration. Although Mayer 
gives his results to three decimal places, Ellis thinks that the number 
of varying circumstances is so great that " at most two jilaces of deci- 
mals (perhaps only one) out of the three of Mayer's means can be trusted." 
Hence he doubts whether Mayer's process is superior to Scheibler's, al- 
though he concedes that it is fully equal to it. As a chronoscope, he 
regards it as extremely valuable, since if the time of vibration be deter- 
mined to Yoo of a vibration, and the fork makes 400 vibrations per sec- 
ond, the measurement would be correct to -j-ooo^ ]^art of a second. As 
to the effect of temperature, MacLeod finds the coefficient to be 204 9 o? 
Koenig j-g^i^, and himself y^^Toj while Mayer, as above stated, ob- 
tained the value 2T5 eT • {Nature, November, 1885, xxxiii, 54.) 

Soret has advocated the A of 432 vibrations as the standard of mu- 
sical pitch. Objection seems to be raised to this suggestion, long ago 
made in Belgium and rejected by a commission, who adopted in March, 
1885, the French A of 435 vibrations. The arguments in favor of 432 
are almost entirely arithmetical. But even if practicable to make a 
fork exact in the arithmetical series at the start, the charm of the arith- 
metic vanishes with a slight change in temperature. Up to 1813 all 
Europe had used a pitch within a comma either way of Handel's fork 
A 422-5. Then the Russian Emperor gave a set of new instruments t(j 



596 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

a Vienna regiment and the pitch began to rise. In 1826 the London 
Philharmonic Society adopted A 433. In 1859 France adopted A 435. 
The English concert pitch is now based on A 454-7, the army pitch being 
based on A 452. {J. Phys., November, 1885, II, iv, 506 ; Nature, May, 
1885, XXXII, 9.) 

Ellis has presented a paper to the Society of Arts on the musical 
scales of various nations, chiefly those of ancient Greece, Arabia, India, 
Java, China, and Japan, giving the results of his endeavors to discover 
the system by which they tuned. He concludes that there is not any- 
thing among them approaching to a single ''natural" musical scale. 
On the contrary, the systems, where systems can be said to exist, are 
very diverse and often very capricious, and are always very imperfectly 
carried out. This arises, probably, from harmony proper being un- 
known, though ensemble playing is common. In the latter case unisons 
are the rule, the eflect being produced by diversity of quality of tone; 
but certain effects are produced by admitting octaves, and rarely fourths 
and fifths, but no more. Also a kind of polyphony may be remarked, 
some instruments, especially those with tones of very short duration, 
being allowed to discaut while tbe others go on with the air. The in- 
vestigation must go on for years, however, before the matter can be 
fully decided. {Nature, March, 1885, xxxi, 488.) 

Neeseu has reported to the Physical Society of Berlin the results he 
had obtained in his experiments on sounding air columns, with the ob- 
ject of determining the relation of Kundt's dust figures to the tone-pitch. 
By means of an electric tuning fork, whose tone-pitch could be variously 
modified by varying weights, the air was maintained in permanent vi- 
bration in a glass tube closed at the bottom by a membrane. Many 
measurements of the intervals separating the sand ribs were made, but 
no relation between these values and the tone-pitch could be established. 
He found, moreover, that the long-known wandering of the ribs in a 
permanently sounding tube stood in no demonstrable relation to the 
vibrations of the air, being in the same tube directed in one way in one 
place and another way at another place. The cause of the wandering 
of the ribs could not be ascertained. As to their origin, observations 
had been made at those spots in the tube where the wanderings of the 
ribs issued in contrary directions, and where, consequently, there was 
comparative rest. A very interesting phenomenon was observed on 
taking the measurements of pressure in the sounding tube. A narrow 
glass tube, open on both sides, with an oil index, the movements of 
which were observed, acted as a manometer. No displacement of the 
index was ever noticed, but out of the interior end of the manometrical 
tube there appeared to issue a current of air impelling the cork sand a 
long way. The strength of the apparent air current might be measured 
by little mills, and when small radiometers with paper wings were in- 
troduced into the sounding tube they fell into very lively rotation. If, 
instead of full paper wings, the radioiDctcis had small conical paper 



PHYSICS. no? 

tubes, directed all alike, they rotated just as fast in just the same man- 
ner as the others. When, however, one approached a node, the rota- 
tion became slower, ceased, assumed the contrary direction in order 
after further progress, to pause again, and next pass into the former 
lively rotation. {Nature, November, 1885, xxxiii, 95.) 

Elsass has suggested an improved form of monochord in which the 
vibrations of the string are produced by means of a siren. A small 
disk is fixed somewhat eccentrically upon the axis of an ordinary siren, 
and to the uprights carrying the wheelwork is attached, by means of 
two screws, a support for a little bent lever, the conically-pointed axis 
of which rests in two steel screws passing through the support. This 
lever is capable of motion in a vertical plane, and presses with its 
shorter and vertical arm agaiust the eccentric disk while the longer and 
horizontal arm carries the end of a stretched thread at right angles to 
the axis of the lever. When the siren is at rest the tension of the thread 
retains the lever in position, and when it is sounding, and the eccentric 
disk gives it a slight i^eriodic motion, this tension brings it back. At 
its other extremity the thread passes over a friction pulley, adjustable 
in height, and is stretched suitably by weights jilaced in an attached 
scale pan. When propeily regulated and the siren put in motion, the 
vibrations of the thread may easily be followed by the eye ; but as the 
velocity increases, the friction of the disk against the lever produces a 
noise; this suddenly ceases and the thread is seen to be in stationary 
vibration of the fundamental form. The amplitude is considerable, 
being often of three fingers' breadth for threads of a meter in length. 
Moreover, the thread acts as a regulator for the siren, and it is easy to 
maintain its pitch constant. Since the thread may be made to assume 
difl'erent forms of vibration with a constant tension by varying the 
speed of the siren, it differs from Melde's apparatus, where the rate of 
vibration is constant and the tension varies. The author shows how it 
may be used to illustrate Mersenne's laws. {Phil. Mag., January, 1885, 
V, XIX, 48.) 

HEAT. 

1. FrodiicUon of Heat. — Thermometry. 

Mallard and Le Chatelier have given a r^sum6 of their later re- 
searches undertaken under the auspices of the Fire-damp Commission, 
in order to determine, for a number a gaseous mixtures, the tempera- 
ture of inflammation, the speed of propagation of this inflammation, and 
the temperature given by the combustion in close vessels. They find 
that inflammation of gaseous mixtures may be propagated in two dis- 
tinct ways: either with a slow and uniform speed corresponding to the 
deflagration of explosive solids, or with a speed extremely great cor- 
responding to the explosion of the same bodies. The only difference 
which exists between solid and gaseous explosives is that in the former 



598 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

X 

t-he manner jn which the inflammation is produced regulates generally 
the mode of combustion, flame producing deflagration and shock de- 
termining explosion; while for gaseous bodies deflagration changes 
spontaneously into explosion, at least for certain mixtures where the 
propagation is very rapid. There is, moreover, for gases a mode of 
vibratory propagation very variable and very irregular, which is, in a 
certain sense, intermediate between deflagration and explosion. These 
l>licnomena the authors explain by supposing that the slow deflagration 
corresponds to the propagation of the temj)erature of inflammation by 
conduction ; while on the other hand the explosive wave is produced at 
the instant when the pressure produced by the ignited layer upon the 
following one is sufficient to raise this latter to the point of inflamma- 
tion. From this moment the inflammation is itself propagated with the 
speed of transmission of this pressure, i. e., with the speed of sound, 
accelerated, of course, by the high temperature produced. The prog- 
ress of the slow wave was studied by means of photography. A glass 
tube containing the gaseous mixture — generally a highly photogenic 
mixture of carbon disulphide and oxygen, or nitrogen dioxide — was 
placed near a revolving cylinder and parallel to its axis. As the flame 
progressed along the tube it developed a curve on the sensitive paper 
with which the cylinder was covered, the abscissas of which gave the 
place of the flame and the ordinates the time required for it to reach 
this point. The displacement of the flame along the tube is perfectly 
uniform and constant for the same mixture, being for one volume car- 
bon disulphide vapor and three of nitrogen dioxide 1*25 meters per 
second. The temperatures of combustion are given in tabular form. 
{J. Phys.. February, 1885, IF, iv, 59.) 

In their researches on the speed of the explosive wave in gases, Ber- 
thelot and Vieille have shown that this wave is propagated with a speed 
approximately equal to the mean speed of translation of the molecules 
of the gaseous products of combustion, upon the hypothesis that all 
the heat involved in the reaction is found for the first instant in the 
compounds formed. Thus, for electrolytic gas, the mean of several de- 
terminations gave a speed of 2,810 meters per second, the mean speed 
of molecular translation for the vapor formed being 2,831 meters. But 
this law did not appear to hold for mixtures of carbon monoxide with 
oxygen or with nitrogen monoxide. Dixon has now pointed out the 
fact that water- vapor is necessary to the combustion of carbon mon- 
oxide, and has shown that as the proportion of vapor augments the 
speed of inflammation increases also. From experiments made in a 
lead tube 55 meters long and 13 millimeters in diameter, he found the 
speed of the explosive wave to be 2,817 meters at 10^^ 0., confirming 
the above results. With carbon monoxide and oxygen nearly dry, the 
explosive wave was not established until the flame had traversed a dis- 
tance of 700 millimeters from the firing jioint. The speed observed was 
rather over 1,500 meters per second. After the explosion a fine layer 



PHYSICS. 599 

of carbon as found to cover the inside of the tube, showing that the 
enormous temperature reached in the explosion had decomposed the 
carbon monoxide into its constituent elements. (Proc. Brit. Assoc. 1884, 
688 ; J. Phys., October, 1885, II, iv, 472.) 

Sherman has investigated the fact that when a thermometer is heated 
above a certain point the mercury column is permanently displaced 
with regard to the scale. This point of temperature varies with the 
glass of which the bulb is made and also with the previous use of the 
thermometer. The range, in his experience, is between 110° and 255°, 
the former for German and American soda-lime glass, the latter for Eng- 
lish flint and French crystal. By much use or long heating the dis- 
placement frequently reaches 10° and may amount to 26°. The author 
now finds that if the thermometer be exposed to a high temperature for 
some hours the displacement of the zero point becomes less and less 
■with each successive treatment, so that the curve representing the ele- 
vation becomes more nearly parallel with the axis of abscissas, which 
represents the hours of heating. Moreover, the thermometer after treat- 
ment no longer shows this rise in zero i)oint on heating and is found to 
repeat its readings accurately when exposed to similar conditions. 
Hence the author concludes that after such treatment the thermometer 
is as serviceable as a measurer of temperatures ranging from 0° to 300° 
as the accustomed standard is for the range 0° to 100°. These changes 
are accompanied by a change in the expansion-coefficient of the glass, 
due perhaps to a partial separation of the crystalline from the amor- 
phous constituents of the bulb glass. {Am. J. Sci., July, 1885, III, xxx, 
42.) 

Wroblewski has compared the indications of a hydrogen thermometer 
with those of a thermo-electric junction. The former indicates below 
— 193° temperatures lower than the latter, thus showing a greater con- 
traction at this temperature than the laws of Boyle and Charles require. 
Moreover the departure increases as the temperature diminishes. The 
hydrogen thermometer gives —207° for the temperature of solidification 
of carbon monoxide and — 214° for that of nitrogen, while the thermo- 
electric junction gives — 199^ and —203°. The thermo-electric curve is 
remarkably regular, and hence it follows that the thermo electric junc- 
tion is a more reliable indicator of temperature than the air thermometer 
at these low points. When oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon monoxide 
are evaporated in a vacuum the temperature falls only a few degrees 
below — 200° {C. R., April, 1885, c, 979; Am. J. Sci., June, 1885, III, 
XXIX, 495.) 

Mendenhall has described a differential-resistance thermometer for 
the ready determination of temperature at a distant point. It consists 
essentially of a thermometer of large size the stem of which has an 
internal diameter of about a millimeter, and the bulb of which is so 
large that a difierence of 1° gives a displacement of 5™"' in the column. 
Running down through the stem is a platinum wii'e, about -08°"" in diam- 



600 soiKNTiFic RFXJOiu) iT)fi issr.. 

eter, termiuating in tbebiilb, which has a somevrhat heavier wire sealed 
into it. The resistance between the upper and lower ends of the ther- 
mometer will depend largely on the length of the exposed platinum wire, 
and this upon the temperature; so that as the temperature rises the re- 
sistance in circuit is diminished by an amount equal to the difference be- 
tween that of the platinum wire which disappears and that of the mercury 
which takes its place less the increase in the resistance of the wire and 
mercury due to increase of temperature. From the equation represent- 
ing this change in resistance as a function of the temperature a curve 
is constructed from which the temperature corresponding to any given 
resistance may easily be read. The resistance is measured on a Wheat- 
stone's bridge, the telephone being conveniently substituted for the 
galvanometer for ordinary work. {Am. J. Sci., August, 1885, III, xxx, 
114.) 

Angstrom's geothermometer consists of an ordinary instrument whose 
bulb is placed in an iron vessel containing mercury sunk to the required 
depth. The stem is open above and in it hangs a metallic wire moved 
at the surface of the ground by means of a rack and pinion. So soon 
as the wire touches the mercury an electric circuit is closed, and this, 
by means of an electro-magnet, arrests the pinion. The stem carries a 
graduated scale previously calibrated, so that a simple inspection gives 
the temperature at once. No correction for temperature is necessary, 
since the parts are compensated. {J. Phys., January, 1885, II, iv, 46.) 

Whipple has communicated to the London Physical Society a de- 
scription of the process followed at Kew for testing thermometers at or 
near the melting point of mercury. About 20 pounds of mercury are 
poured into a wooden bowl and frozen by carbon dioxide-snow and 
ether. The mercury is stirred with a wooden stirrer and the snow is 
added till the experimenter feels, by the resistance to stirring, that the 
mercury is freezing. By continuing the stirring for some time the 
mercury becoms a granular instead of a solid mass. The thermometers 
are then inserted together with a standard and compared. About one 
hundred mercury or forty spirit thermometers can be thus examined in 
half an hour, using about 200 gallons of carbon dioxide gas compressed 
to form the snow. The bowl, ether, and mercury are cooled first to 
— 10° by im ordinary freezing mixture. The average correction at the 
melting point of mercury is now less than 1° F. When the process 
was introduced, in 1872, it amounted to 5°, but has steadily decreased. 
{Nature, November, 1885, xxxiii, 93.) 

2. Expansion and Change of State. 

Madan, doubting the statement generally made that stretched india- 
rubber forms an exception to the general law of expansion by heat, has 
called attention to Kussner's investigations on this subject made in 1882. 
He finds (1) that india-rubber always has a definite and positive coeffi 



PHYSICS. ()<H 

cient of expansiou, the value of which at 10® was found to be 0-000657 
and at 30° 0-000670; (2) that india-rubber in a stretched state expands 
to the same extent as when not stretched, no point of minimum den- 
sity existing ; (3) that the apparently anomalous behavior of stretched 
rubber is a case entirely analogous to that of anisotropic crystals 
which expand diflerently in different directions; Iceland spar, as Mit- 
scherlich showed, contracting by heat in a direction perpendicular to 
the principal axis, though its volume as a whole increases. Moreover, 
when stretched, ordinary rubber becomes anisotropic and gives color 
between two crossed Nicol prisms, the direction of the strain lying at 
45° with the plane of polarization. [Nature, October, 1885, xxxii, 625.) 

In a subsequent note, Tomlinson agrees with Schmulewitsch that 
the effect of heating a stretched piece of rubber is to lengthen it if the 
tension is small, and to shorten it if the tension is large; so that for a 
certain tension there will be neither elongation nor contraction. More- 
over, Tomlinson concludes from his experiments that the critical tension 
will be lower the higher the temperature. ( VierteljaJirschr. Nat Ges. 
Zurich, XI, 202 ; Nature, November, 1885, xxxiii, 7.) 

Gernez has continued his researches upon the changes in the crystal- 
line form of sulphur produced by heat. He finds that while the octo- 
hedric form may be preserved at all temperatures below its fusing point, 
yet that at 97'6o and above if touched with a fragment of prismatic 
sulphur, it is transformed into the prismatic variety. To this state ol 
unstable equilibrium he gives the name crystalline surheating. On the 
other hand, the change of prismatic into octohedral sulphur with de- 
creasing temperatures, shows a retardation analogous to that above 
mentioned, to which the author, following Mallard, gives the name crys- 
talline surfusiou. The conditions affecting these uncertain states he has 
now investigated, and has concluded : 1st, that the speed of devitrifi- 
cation is not greater as the temperature is lower, there being always 
an intermediate temperature of maximum rapidity of change ; 2d, that 
the crystalline form is not always sufiicieut of itself to identify the va- 
riety, since considerable differences exist in pieces having the same 
form ; 3d, that the action of heat upon liquid sulphur at a constant tem- 
perature produces a change which increases with time and continues 
even after solidification; 4th, that liquid sulphur heated from a given 
temperature and then cooled again to the same temperature undergoes 
a modification manifested by change of properties, which continue even 
after solidification ; 5th, that octohedral sulphur, melted, solidified in the 
prismatic form, and then changed to the octohedral form, has not re- 
covered its primitive i)roperties, and does not even after many mouths 
exposure to the ordinary temperature. {J. Phys., August, 1885, II, iv, 
349) 

Eaoult has continued his investigations on the action of dissolved 
substances in lowering the freezing point of solutions. His results show, 
1st, that if in the solution of an alkali salt containing one equivalent of 



602 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

« 

the salt in lOO"-*'* of water, the monad metal be replaced by an equivalent 
quantity of a dyad or polyad metal, the depression of the freezing point 
is diminished by a quantity sensibly constant and equal to 10-5; and, 
2d, with regard to acids, that if in the solution of a salt of a strong 
monobasic acid, containing one equivalent of the acid in lOO"**'' of 
water, the monobasic acid be replaced by an equivalent quantity of a 
strong dibasic acid a diminution of the depression of the freezing point 
is observed which is nearly constant and approaches 14. From the 
partial depression values given in the paper, the molecular depression 
produced by any salt may be calculated from its molecular weight. 
{Ann. Chim. Phijs., VI, IV, 401; Am. J. ScL, May, 1885, III, xxix,399.) 

Bouty has suggested the hypothesis that the molecular latent heats 
of all bodies measured at their normal temperatures of ebullition are 
proportional to the squares of these temperatures. This assumes (1) 
that the normal density of saturated vapors corresponds to half their 
molecular weights ; and (2) that Dalton's law is rigorously true. To 
test the question he gives a table of values obtained from seventeen or- 
ganic bodies, chiefly alcohols and ethers, in which the quotient of the 
molecular latent heat by the square of the absolute ebullition tempera- 
ture is nearly constant. For water the value is 0-0694 ; for the alcohols, 
0-0730; for aldehyde, 0-0695 ; for the haloid ethyl ethers, 0-0691 ; and 
for compound ethers, 0-0735. {J. Phys., January, 1885, II, iv, 26.) 

On theoretical grounds J. Thomson had reached the conclusion that 
the maximum elastic force of a vapor in contact with its liquid is greater 
than the maximum elastic force of a vapor in contact with the corre- 
sponding solid, contrary to the opinion of Eegnault, who held them to 
be the same. Kamsay and Young have now verified experimentally 
this conclusion of Thomson's. Their experiments were made partly in 
barometer tubes, partly in an apparatus specially constructed for the 
purpose. They plotted the curves representing the variation of the 
elastic force with the temperature for camphor, benzene, glacial acetic 
acid, and water, and noticed that the curves where these bodies were 
in the solid state did not coincide with those where they were liquids, 
the deviation being in the direction predicted by Thomson. The au- 
thors regard the result as general, and applicable in all cases. {Proc. 
Boy. Soc, XXXVI, 499 ; J. Phys., February, 1885, II, IV, 91.) 

Miiller-Erzbach has suggested a new method for determining the elastic 
force of the vapor of water in hydrated salts, which consists in determin- 
ing simultaneously the loss of weight which two identical tubes suffer, 
one of which contains water the other the hydrated salt, in an atmos- 
phere dried by means of sulphuric acid. The ratio of loss of weight 
the author regards as rigorously equal to the ratio of the elastic forces 
of the vapor of water in the two tubes. In this way he finds that the 
evaporation from hydrated salts in completely dry air gives constant 
dissociation tensions. From the variations of these tensions, the exist- 
ence of three hydrates of sodium phosphate is inferred, corresponding, 



PHYSICS. ^»C)o 

respectively, to two, seven, and twelve molecules of water; of two hy- 
drates of sodium borate, with five and ten molecules of water; of two 
hydrates of sodium carbonate, with one and ten molecules ; while in 
sodium sulphate all the combined water constitutes only a single hy- 
drate. {Wied. An7i., xxiii, 607 ; J. Phys., November, 1885, II, iv, 521.) 

Klobukow has contrived two new forms of apparatus for measuring 
vapor densities, the one for substances of low the other for substances 
of high boiling point. The latter, which is the more novel, has the form 
of an areometer of constant volume, containing a cavity for the vapor, 
the volume being deduced from the weight required to restore the 
level. The areometer is floated in mercury, the temperature of which 
is raised so as to volatilize the substance used. ( Wied. Ann., xxii, 493 ; 
J. Phys., April, 1885, II, IV, 177, 179.) 

In consequence of the very considerable loss in preparing solid car- 
bon dioxide, Cailletet proposes the use of a hollow cylinder closed at bot- 
tom, and having a cover attached by a bayonet catch, through which 
cover an inclined tube passes to within a few millimeters of the bottom 
of the cylinder. Through the middle of the base a larger tube passes 
which serves for a handle and also for the escape of the gas. It rises 
nearly to the top of the box and is perforated with holes. The whole 
apparatus is made of vulcanite. Experiments show that 65 grams of 
snow are obtainable from 200 grams of the liquid carbon dioxide blown 
in through the inclined tube. {J. Phys., March, 1885, II, iv, 122.) 

Cailletet has succeeded in obtaining by the use of liquid ethylene a 
temperature sufficiently low to liquefy oxygen completely. The com- 
plete apparatus, constructed by Ducretet, is so well arranged that the 
production of liquid oxygen is an easy lecture-room experiment. The 
steel cylinder containing the liquid ethylene is supported with its axis 
vertical, its mouth being downward. To this a cojjper worm 3™"" or 4™™ 
in diameter is attached, closed at the lower end by a screw plug. On 
cooling this worm to— 70° in a bath of methyl chloride, the ethylene 
within it has only a feeble tension and flows out without much loss when 
the screw plug is opened. The liquid ethylene is received in a narrow 
tube of thin glass placed within a larger vessel containing dry air. It 
is necessary now only to accelerate its evaporation by passing through 
it a rapid current of air or hydrogen, also cooled in the methyl chloride 
bath, in order to see the oxygen compressed in a glass tube immersed 
in the ethylene condense into a clear colorless liquid having a sharply- 
defined meniscus. A hydrogen thermometer showed the temperature 
of the ethylene to be-123o. (C. E., c, 1033; J. Phys., July, 1885, II, rv, 
293; Nature, October, 1885, xxxii, 584; Am. J. Sci., July, 1885, III, 
XXX, 73.) 

Olszewski has measured the density and the expansion coefficient of 
liquid oxygen. A small reservoir of glass 1-4 <>• ''• in capacity was filled 
with liquid oxygen, cooled to —139^ by the evaporation of liquid ethyl- 
ene and maintained at a pressure of 40 atmospheres. The oxygen was 
then allowed to resume the gaseous state and from the volume of this 



C,OA SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

latter its weight was calculated. The density thns obtained was 0-8787 
at — 139-130. The expansion coefficient was 0-01706. Moreover the 
author finds that liquefied chlorine congeals at —102° and that hydrogen 
chloride is solid at —115-7° and fuses again at — 112-3°. Hydrogen 
arsenide freezes at — 118-9° and melts at —113-5°. Silicon fluoride 
is solid at —102°. Ethyl ether freezes at —129°. Methyl alcohol has 
the consistence of oil at —102° and of butter at —115° ; it then passes 
gradually into the solid state, which is reached at —134°. {Ber. Ak. 
Wien, 1884, 72 ; J. Phijs., April, 1885, II, iv, 184.) 

Wroblewski has described in detail the apparatus which he uses for 
the liquefaction of gases and has given the results of his comparisons of 
the hydrogen thermometer with the thermo-electric couple. The criti- 
cal temperatures for nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and oxygen he finds to be 
—145°, —141°, and —118°, respectively ; and the critical pressures 
33-6, 35, and 50 atmospheres. The boiling points under a pressure of 
740mm^ are —193°, —190°, and —181-5° The lowest temperatures which 
he has observed are — 200-4° for oxygen under a pressure of 2"'°, -200° 
for nitrogen at 4-2''°», and for carbon monoxide —201-6° at 4""^. Both 
nitrogen and carbon monoxide solidify at these temperatures. {Ber. 
Ah. Wien, March, 1885 ; J. Phys., July, 1885, II, iv, 316.) 

In hygrometry several papers have appeared. Hazen has studied the 
psychrometer and has compared its indications with those of the con- 
densing hygrometer. {Am. J. Sci., December, 1885, III, xxx, 435.) . 

Bourbouze has suggested two new modifications of the hygrometer. 
One of these is based on the production of the colored rings seen round 
a source of light when viewed through a glass i)late on which vapor 
begins to condense. A small rectangular tube has holes on opposite 
faces closed by very thin glass plates. A very sensitive thermometer 
is used, dipping only very slightly into the liquid. On causing a cur- 
rent of air over the liquid surface, either by aspiration or otherwise, 
the whole is cooled and dew is deposited on the glass. By placing the 
apparatus between the eye and a luminous point these concentric rings 
are readily observed and the temperature noted. The other instrument 
is similar but has a metallic envelope, the temperature of which is de- 
termined by the thermometer. {J. Phys., September, 1885, II, IV, 425; 
Phil. Mag., August, 1885, V, xx, 220.) 

Sire has also suggested two new types of condensing hygrometers, 
in both of which the deposit of dew is observed on a cylindrical or 
plane brilliant surface. The reservoir in the first type is a cylindrical 
tube of thin polished metal, the ends of which are insulated in the in- 
terior by two pieces of ebonite, so that the volatile liquid is in contact 
with the metal only over a middle zone a centimeter broad. In the 
second the reservoir is entirely of ebonite, traversed laterally by a cir- 
cular aperture closed by a thin metal disk, polished on the inside. The 
surfaces are metallic palladium. {Phil. Mag., November, 1885, Y, xx, 
468.) 



PHYSICS. ()05 

3. Conduction and Radiation. — Specific Heat. 

Stenger has measured the conductibility of tourmaline by the method 
of Weber, employing for this purpose plates whose homogeneity had 
been thoroughly established. He was unable to discover the least 
trace of unilateral conductivity and therefore supposes that the con- 
trary results obtained by. Thompson and Lodge arose from the non- 
homogeneity of the tourmaline they used. In consequence the author 
does not consider as established their theory of the iiyroelectricity of 
tourmaline, based upon such couductivfty. {Wied. Ann., xxii, 522; 
J. PhT/s., November, 1885, II, iv, 522.) 

From the electromagnetic theory of light Maxwell deduced the prop- 
osition that a beamof light or heat falling normally on a surface exerts 
upon it a pressure equal to the energy which exists in unit of volume of 
the ether in consequence of its light motion. Boltzmaun, combining 
with this a relation deduced by him from the second law of thermody- 
namics, has obtained the law of Stefan, that the radiation from a heated 
body is proportional to the fourth power of the absolute temperature. 
{Wicd. An7i., xxii, 291; J. Phys., November, 1885, II, iv, 52G). 

Schneebeli has called attention to a paper by Svauberg, published in 
1851, in which is a description of an apparatus based on the same princi- 
ple as the bolometer of Langley. With this apparatus he has measured 
the coefficient of absorption of glass, and finds for it a value which varies 
inversely as the temperature, being 2*4 at 100°, 1*47 at 250°, and 0-42 at 
1,0000. He has also verified the law of Stefan between 400° and 1,000°, 
and has shown that the ratio of the luminous to the total radiation of a 
Swan lamp increases rapidly with the temperature; but that the ratio 
of this radiation to the square of the current-strength remains constant, 
as Joule's law requires. {Wied. Ann., xxii, 430; J. Phys., November, 
1885, II, IV, 527.) 

Bottomley, on the contrary, has obtained experimental results entirely 
disagreeing with Stefan's law. A current of known strength is passed 
through a platinum wire, the temperature of which is deduced from its 
increase in resistance. When the temperature has become constant, the 
heat generated by the current must be equal to that radiated from the 
surface of the wire plus that lost at the ends of the wire bj' conduction. 
The wire was placed in a high vacuum, one twenty- millionth of an at- 
mosphere, made in a glass tube 6™™ in internal diameter. The wire 
itself was 0-4"'™ diameter and about half a meter long, and was sealed 
into the ends of the tube, the exhaustion being effected through a lateral 
tube. The temperature of the room at the time of the experiment was 
15°. In four experiments, the absolute temperature of the wire being 
298, 383, 798, and 823, the ratio of the energy radiated was found to be 
1, 6-1, 71.9, and 90-2; whereas by the law of Stefan the values should 
have been 1, 16, 438-8, and 499-8. {Nature, November, 1885, xxxiii, 
^5.) 



606 SCIENTIFIC KECOKJJ FOK i885. 

The emissive power of a surface increases markedly when it is depol- 
ished. This fact Christiansen accounted for on the theory that such a 
surface sent out not only the heat emitted directly but also the heat 
emitted and then reflected. To test this theory he constructed a cube 
one face of which was plane, another corrugated, the corrugations hav- 
ing sharp angles and the sides inclined 90° to each other, a third sim- 
ilarly corrugated but with the inclination 45°, and a fourth containing a 
large number of conical cavities. All these surfaces were equally i)ol- 
ished and their emissive powers normal to the faces of the cube were 
1, 2-05, 2*66, and 8-7, respectively. The apparent emissive power of the 
conical cavities is approximately the same as that of a surface equal to 
the sum of their bases covered with lampblack. ( Wied. Ann., xxi, 364 ; 
J. Phys., November, 1885, II, iv, 528.) 

Kontgen appears to have settled the disputed question of the absorp- 
tion of heat by the vapor of water by the following neat experiment : 
A thick tube of brass, gilded, is closed at one end by a plate of rock 
salt. If now it be exposed to a source of heat, the heating will depend 
(1) upon the heat transmitted by the walls of the tube and (2) upon the 
heat absorbed by the gas. Place the interior of the tube in commu- 
nication with a Marey's manometric capsule, the style of which rests on 
the surface of a recording cylinder. CTnder the above circumstances it 
will record an increase of pressure which will be permanent if the heat- 
ing is due to the first cause and transient if due to the second. The 
secoud effect is observed when the tube contains air saturated at zero 
and then heated to 26°, the increase of pressure due to the heating of 
the gas being 2-18'"™. A much less increase was observed with air con- 
taining carbon dioxide in the normal proportion of the atmosphere. 
The source of heat in these cases was a Bunsen burner. ( Wied. Ann., 
XXIII, 1, 259 ; J. Phys., April, 1885, II, iv, 181, 529.) 

Clark has devised a radiant energy recorder depending on the evap- 
oration of water in vacuo. The instrument is essentially a Wollaston 
cryophorus in which the vertical tube and lower bulb are replaced by a 
simple glass tube graduated in cubic centimeters. The bulb containing 
the water to be evaporated is blackened by holding it in the smoke of 
burning camphor and is then exposed to the sun, the rest of the appa- 
ratus being silvered or properly protected by sheets of bright tin. At 
sunset the water which has distilled over can be read off on the graduated 
tube and expressed in heat units. {Nature, July, 1885, xxxii, 233.) 

According to Lommel's theory of fluorescence there should be an ab- 
sorption band in the spectrum of esculin in the vicinity of the line A. 
Wesendonck has examined this part of the spectrum by means of phos- 
phorographs and has been unable to recognize any such baud in that 
region. ( Wied. Ann., xxiii, 548 ; J. Phys., November, 1885, II, iv, 533.) 

Velten has measured the specific heat of water at ordinary tempera- 
tures, using (1) the method of mixtures and (2) an ice calorimeter. 
The results are quite complex but the formula which appears to the 



PHYSICS. 



607 



author to represent best the results is of the form l\=l + at-\-fiP-\-)'f, in 
which Aa= -0-0007312756, i/5= + 0-0000079327, and ir= -0-00000002679, 
Jct being the true specific heat at to. This indicates that the specific heat of 
water has a minimum value at 43.5° and a maximum at 104.5°. ( Wied. 
Ann., XXI, 31 ; J. Phys., November, 1885, II, iv, 521.) 

Berthelot and Vieille, in their studies on the heat relations of the ex- 
plosion of gaseous mixtures, have been able from the data obtained 
to calculate the specific heat of the elementary gases, of water and of 
carbon dioxide at high temperatures. Thus, for the simple gases N2, 
Hz, and O2, as well as the compound gas CO, which is closely related to 
them, the specific heat at 2,800° is 0-7 ; at 3,200°, 7-9; at 4,000°, 8-4; 
and at 4,400°, 9-3. It will be observed that it increases rapidly with the 
temperature, being doubled, nearly, between 0° and 4,500°. The mean 
specific heat of water between 0° and 2,180° is 15-57, and between 0° and 
3,240°, 18-12. Hence the mean specific heat between 130° and 230° is 
more than doubled at 2,000° and tripled at 4,000°. For carbon dioxide 
the mean value between 0° and 2,900° is 20-5, and for cyanogen, between 
0° and 4,300°, 22-5. The specific heat of the former gas more than 
triples and the elementary specific heat quadruples between 0° and 
4,300°. {Ann. Chim. Phys., January, 1885, VI, iv, 66, 74; Am. J. ScL, 
April, 1885, III, xxix, 331.) 

Bartoli has described a simple form of apparatus for lecture demon- 
stration to show the equivalence of heat and work. Two small globes, 
one containing mercury, the other benzene, are connected by a narrow 
tube, from which rises perpendicularly a thermometer tube, graduated. 
On placing the mercury globe vertically above the other, the mercury 
flows through the tube into the lower globe, the energy of its fall being 
converted into heat, which expands the benzene by an amount easily 
read otf on the fine tube. The calibration of this tube may be effected 
by passing a known current through a wire of known resistance sealed 
in one of the balloons, and calculating the heat evolved. {II Nuovo Ci- 
mento, XV, 18; J. Pliys., December, 1885, II, iv, 558.) 

Webster has experimented to determine the mechanical equivalent 
of heat by observing the thermal effect produced by the electric cur- 
rent on a thin ribbon of steel, the temperature being measured from the 
change in resistance. The final value obtained was 4-14 x 10" ergs per 
gram-degree. {Proc. Am. Acad., May, 1885; Phil. Mag.., August, 1885, 
V, XX, 217.) 

LIGHT. 

1. Production and Velocity. 

The following is the conclusion reached by De Volson Wood after an 
extended discussion of the properties of the luminiferous aether as de- 
duced from the best obtainable data : " We conclude then that a medium 
whose density is such that a volume of it equal to about twenty volumes 
of the earth would weigh 1 pound, and whose tension is such that the 



GO^ SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

pressure on a square mile would be about 1 pound, and whose specific 
heat is such that it would require as much heat to raise the temperature 
of 1 pound of it 1° F. as it would to raise about 2,300,000,000 tons of 
water the same amount, will satisfy the requirements of nature in being 
able to transmit a wave of light or heat 186,300 miles per second and 
transmit 133 foot-i)oiinds of heat energy from the sun to the earth each 
second per square foot of surface normally exposed, and also be every- 
where practically non-resisting and sensibly uniform in temperature, 
density, and elasticity. This medium we call the lumiuiferous aether." 
{Phil. Mag., November, 1885, V, xx, 389.) 

Fitzgerald has described some mechanical models to illustrate certain 
properties of the aether. The elements consist of pairs of wheels so 
geared together that when one rotates it causes the other to rotate in 
the same direction. For a one-dimensional model a band suffices to con- 
nect them. By fixing a number of wheels with their axes parallel and 
at right angles to a plane and connecting each wheel with its neighbors 
by elastic bands we shall have such a model which represents a non- 
conducting region of the ether. A perfectly conducting region is one 
in which there are no bands, and a partially conducting region would 
be represented by the bands slipping more or less. Bj^ means of such 
a model the author discusses electrostatic, electrokinetic, and lumiuif- 
erous phenomena, preliminary to a description of the tridimensional 
model, which is the object of his paper. {Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V, 
XIX, 438.) 

Trowbridge has experimented to produce, by means of an electric cur- 
rent, a standard of light which shall be always the same under the same 
conditions. His first experiments were made with platinum, a strip of 
foil b^"" long, 5™™ wide, and 0'02""" thick being placed in the shunt cir- 
cuit of a small Gramme machine, and inclosed in a Ritchie photometer 
box for comparison with a standard caudle, the current being measured 
with a tangeut galvanometer, and the difference of potential at the ends 
of the strip with a quadrant electrometer. With a variation of electro- 
motive force of 2-6 to 3*8 volts and of resistance from 0-44 to 0-47 ohm, 
the current varied from 6 to 8 amperes, and the light from a very dull 
red up to the color of a candle. Next a thermal junction was inclosed 
in an Edison incandescent lamp to see if the heat radiation was pro- 
portional to the incandescence, but the thermo-electric force developed 
was too feeble. A loop of fine platinum wire was then inserted between 
the terminals of the carbon in an Edison lamp and made one side of a 
Wheatstone bridge, a similar wire forming a second side, thus constitut- 
ing a bolometer. With an increase of resistance of the inside loop of 
0-2 ohm, there was an increase of light from 3 to 7-5 candles. Though 
sensitive, this arrangement does not enable rays of different refraugi- 
bility to be distinguished. Experiments were then made to determine 
the practicability of using a thermopile to measure the amount of ra- 
diation from an incandescent strip of platinum at a fixed distance, and 



PHYSICS. 609 

thus determine tbe total energy radiated, the light energy being simul- 
taneously determined by comiiarison with a standard candle. The heat 
indications were found to be far more sensitive than those of the photom- 
eter. Hence he suggests as a standard of light an incandescent strip 
which radiates a definite amount of energy, this energy being measured 
at a fixed distance which will best agree numerical]}' with the absolute 
system. {Am. J. iSci., August, 1885, III, xxx, 128.) 

Frederick Siemens has devised an important improvement in gas 
lighting, based on the adoption of the well-known regenerative principle. 
In his opinion rooms should be lighted by means of indirect rays or 
difiused light only, the source of light itself not being directly visible. 
His lamp consists of four approximately spherical and concentric hoods 
of sheet-iron or other suitable material so arranged that the jjroducts of 
combustion travel downward between the second and third and upward 
between the third and fourth or outer one, while the air to be heated for 
feeding the flame passes upward between the first and second and 
through the first, filling this hood with very hot air. The products of 
combustion pass through an opening in the top of the outer hood into a 
chimney. The concave surface of the first or lower hood acts as a reflec- 
tor, and in its focus are placed one or more fish-tail burners of the usual 
type. The gas is therefore burned in a highly heated air, the temper- 
ature of which increases with that of the gas flames, the brilliancy ot the 
light increasing in the same ratio. Tests with this lamp showed that 
the same burners burning the same amount of gas in the two cases gave 
an average of 2-S75 candles per cubic foot of gas consumed when re- 
moved from the hoods and 7-74 candles per cubic foot when burned in 
their proper place in the lamp. [Mature, July, 1885, xxxii, 247.) 

Wolf has proposed another modification in the well known Foucault's 
apparatus for the velocity of light. His apparatus consists of two mir- 
rors, one fixed, having a diameter of 0-2 meter, the other movable 5 centi- 
meters in diameter. Both are concave and spherical and have the same 
radius of curvature. 5 meters. The source of light is a narrow aperture 
cut in the silver in the center of the large mirror. The pencil emanating 
from it and entirely covering the rotating mirror is reflected by the 
latter and returns to form on the surface of the fixed mirror a movable 
image of the aperture and of the same size. This is reflected back to 
the revolving mirror, and by this the Foucault image is formed. If 
now the mirror be rotated with suflicient speed there will be formed on 
the fixed mirror a series of equal luminous lines separated by equal 
intervals, which will continue to increase their distance from each other 
as the speed rises. These are Foucault images formed by multiple re- 
flections, and the higher the image which can be measured the higher the 
multiple of the Foucault deviation. The author is in hopes of meas- 
uring the twentieth image, which would give a displacement of 35""". 
(0. B., February, 1885, c, 303; Nature. April, 1885, xxxi, 517.) 

Michelson has published a note objecting to Wolf's assijmptipn tUat 
H. Mis. 15 39 



610 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

the image iu his experiments was ill defined, and criticising in several 
particulars the new method. {Nature^ May, 1885, xxxii, 6.) 

Some years ago Cornu experimentally established the fact that in 
quartz the mean speed of propagation of the inverse circular waves along 
the optic axis is sensibly equal to the velocity of the ordinary wave 
perpendicular to this axis. Exner has now shown that a more general 
law can be deduced from the formulas given by Cauchy and Von Lang 
to represent the properties of quartz, as follows: For any direction 
whatever the arithmetical mean of the two velocities of propagation is 
equal to the arithmetical mean of the velocities which would correspond 
to this same direction if the medium did not possess rotatory power. 
Von Lang's recent measures confirm this law completely. ( Wied. Ann.^ 
XXV, 141 ; J. Phys., October, 1885, II, iv," 468.) 

Langley has determined i)hotometricaiiy the amount of light trans- 
mitted by wire gauze screens, such as are sometimes used to diminish 
the apparant brightness of stars in making meridian observations. He 
found that one screen transmitted 0.395, two screens 0-144, and three 
screens 0-052 of the incident light. In fact, however, the three screens 
as used with the telescope allowed a transmission of only 0-0014. On 
investigation this result was found to be due to diffraction. Hence the 
author concludes, first, that the transmission as measured by the pho- 
tometer box was equal to the ratio of the sum of the areas of the aper- 
tures of the screen to its total area and, therefore, could be considered to 
be the true transmission of the screen ; second, that the much smaller 
transmission of the screen when used in front of the object glass of a 
telescope to diminish the apparent brightness of a star is satisfactorily 
accounted for by the loss of light caused by diffraction under these cir- 
cumstances ; and, third, that screens used for this purpose should have 
their constants determined by special experiments of the nature of those 
now described and that their photometric use should then be limited 
to the reduction of the light of bodies possessing a small angular mag- 
nitude. {Am. J. Sci., September, 1885, III, xxx, 210.) 

Fol and Sarasin have investigated the depth to which light pene- 
trates the Mediterranean Sea. By means of photographic plates they 
have proved that in the middle of a sunny day in March the rays of the 
sun do not penetrate below 400 meters from the surface. At 380 meters 
shortly before 11 A. M., the impression on the plate was less than that 
which would have been left on exposure to the air on a clear night 
without a moon. In the lake of Geneva the extreme winter limit is 200 
meters; but they find as much light at 380 meters in the Mediterranean 
as at 192 meters in the lake. The light penetrates 20 to 30 meters 
deeper in the lake in March than in September. (Phil. Mag., January, 
1885, V, XIX, 70; Nature, June, 1885, xxxii, 132.) 

2. Reflection and Bcfraction. 

Amagat has described an instrument for measuring angles which re 
ticmbles the sextantj but which has the axis of the telcvscope perpendic- 



PHYSICS. 611 

iilar to the fixed mirror and the movable mirror so arranged that its axis 
of rotation coincides with one of its edges and cuts the optical axis. The 
secondary mirror, instead of being fixed, is movable about an axis par- 
allel to the plane of the graduation and perpendicular to the ox>tic axis. 
Under these conditions the image twice reflected from any given point 
will be displaced in a plane perpendicular to that of the circle when 
the secondary mirror turns about its axis. If the telescope be sup- 
pressed and a simple vertical slit be placed between the eye and the axis 
of rotation of the movable mirror, and if the mirror be silvered all over, 
an object can be seen above or below it, and it can be made to coincide 
with the image of another object twice reflected and thus their angular 
distance determined, projected on the horizon. {C B., April, 1885, c, 
1120; Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V, xix, 516.) 

Kriiss has investigated the influence of temperature on the refraction 
of prisms in order to determine its comparative importance in spectrum 
measurements. His measurements were made by means of a microm- 
eter which moved the observing telescope in connection with an eye- 
piece micrometer carried by it. Three prisms were measured at dif- 
ferent temperatures. From the results it appears that all spectrum 
lines shift by rise of temperature. In glass prisms this shifting is to- 
ward the violet ; in quartz prisms toward the red. In the triple glass 
prism a change of temperature of about 5° suffices to alter the measure- 
ment of wave-length by an amount equal to the distance between the 
D lines. Moreover this shifting increases with the refrangibility of the 
region examined. {Ber. Berl. Cliem. Ges., December, 1884, xvii, 2732 ; 
Am. J. 8ci., March, 1885, III, xxix, 251.) 

Christiansen's original experiment consists in immersing glass powder 
in a mixture of carbon disulphide and benzene in such proportions that 
for one part of the spectrum the indices of the solid and of the fluid are 
the same. ( Wied. Ann., xxm, 298.) Eayleigh has improved this experi- 
ment by using aflat-sided bottle to contain the preparation, and by hav- 
ing the same kind of glass for the bottle and for the powder. The sides 
of the bottle are worked flat, like plate glass. Ordinary flint does not 
seem to work as well as plate glass, though optical flint answers well. It 
is more important that the powder should be homogeneous in itself than 
that it should correspond very accurately with the glass of the bottle. 
Properly arranged rays lying within a very narrow range of refrangi- 
bility traverse the mixture freely, but the neighboring rays are scattered 
laterally much as in jyassing ground glass. Two complementary colors 
are therefore exhibited, one by direct the other by oblique light. In 
order to see these to advantage there should not be too much diflused 
illumination, otherwise the directly transmitted monochromatic .light is 
liable to be greatly diluted. {Phil. Mag., October, 1885, V, xx, 358.) 

Some years ago Eayleigh examined the effect upon definition of small 
disturbances in the wave surfaces from their proper forms, and con- 
cluded that the aberration of a plaijo-convex lens focusing parallel rays 



612 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1885. 

of homogeneous light is unim])ortaut so loug as the fourth power of the 
angular seuii-aperture does not exceed the ratio of the wave length to 
the focal distance ; a condition satisfied by a lens of 3 feet focus pro- 
vided that the aperture be less than 2 inches. He has now discussed 
the accuracy of focus necessary for sensibly perfect definition, and has 
reached the result that a displacement from the true focus will not 
impair definition, provided it is less than the product of the wave length 
by the square of the ratio of the focal length to the semi-aperture. 
Hence the linear accuracy required is the same whatever the absolute 
aperture of the object glass may be, provided that the ratio of aperture 
to focal length be preserved. Experimental results confirmed closely 
this theoretical conclusion. [Phil. Mag., October, 1885, Y, xx, 354.) 

D'Ocagne has shown that if the two sides of a square and the diag- 
onal be divided into the same number of equal parts, and a straight 
line be drawn from the point on one side corresponding numerically to 
one of the conjugate focal distances through the number of the division 
on the diagonal representing the principal focal length, this line will 
cut the other side at a point representing numerically the other conju- 
gate focal distance. Conversely any right line whatever drawn through 
a point on the diagonal corresponding numerically to the principal 
focus of a lens cuts the sides at points representing its conjugate foci 
as it moves about this point as a center. In practice a rod may be 
pivoted at the given center. {J. Pliys., December, 1885, II, iv, 555.) 

Kayleigh has described a monochromatic telescope which is a modi- 
fication of Maxwell's color box. In this well-known instrument light 
passes through a slit in the focus of a collimating lens and traverses in 
succession this lens, a prism, and another lens, by which it is brought to a 
focus upon a plane surface in which is a movable slit, the eye placed be- 
hind this slit receiving light approximately monochromatic. If now, in 
addition, a lens be placed just behind the first slit so as to bring some 
distant object into focus at a convenient distance from the eye this 
object will be seen by the light that would enter the eye in the simple 
color box. The instrument is to be used to compare lights of different 
colors for practical purposes. [Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V, xix, 446.) 

Malcolm kas adjusted his binocular glass to eyes of different focal 
lengths by arranging one of the eye-pieces so that it can be moved 
through a small range in or out by turning a milled bead. An index 
arrangement is attached by which a given setting may always be repro- 
duced. The unaltered tube is brought to the most perfect focus pos- 
sible in the ordinary way, using only one eye. Then the other tube is 
used with the other eye and focused accurately with its own adjustment, 
the oth^r remaining unchanged. {Piril. Mag., June, 1885, V, xix, 461.) 

3. Dispersion and Color. 

Wiillner, in 1883, showed that the index of any transparent substance 
could be very exactly represented in terms of wave length by a formula 
giv^n by him. Since that time he has compared the experimental r§- 



PHYSICS. <)1.'> 

suits obtiiiiied by Mascait and Esselbach with quartz in the ultra violet, 
and by Mouton and Langley for flint in the ultra red, and linds the for- 
mula very exactly verified in all cases. In the case of quartz the discrep- 
ancy reachCvS the third decimal place of the index only for the, extreme 
red (A =21-4 x 10-^) In the case of flint the divergence becomes 
sensiible only for the line O and for the extreme red (A = 28 x lO"'*). 
For the line O the value observed, 1-C266, lies between 1-6242 and l-()277, 
calculated from Mascart's and Esselbach's wave lengths. ( Wied. Ann.^ 
XXIII, 306 ; J. Phys., July, 1885," II, iv, 324.) 

Clemenshaw exhibited to the London Physical Society some experi- 
ments in projecting the spectra of the metals without the aid of the 
electric light. A small quantity of a solution of the salt to be experi- 
mented on is put into a bottle in which hydrogen is being evolved by 
the action of dilute sulphuric acid on zinc. The bottle has three necks, 
through one of which an acid funnel is passed, a second carries the jet, 
and through the third hydrogen or coal gas is fed into the apparatus, the 
flame being thus regulated. The jet, which is from one-eighth to three- 
sixteenth inch in diameter, is surrounded by a larger tube, through 
which oxygen passes to the flame ; the result being a brilliant light 
giving the spectrum of the substance, which is carried over mechanic- 
ally by the evolved hydrogen. The spectra of sodium, lithium, and 
strontium were shown upon the screen and the absorption of the so- 
dium light by a Bunseu flame containing sodium was clearly seen. [Phil. 
Mag., May, 1885, V, xix, 365 ; Nature, February, 1885, xxxi, 329.) 

Koenig presented in May to the Physical Society of Berlin the plan 
of a new spectrophotometer then in course of construction. It consisted 
of a tube containing a lens and a diaphragm turned toward the source 
of light, and having two slits lying the one above the other, a i^rism for 
decomposing the two incident beams, and a second collimating tube 
with a disk closing the end, on which appeared the two spectra slightly 
separated. Before the lens of the observing telescope was placed a twin 
prism, the two halves, with refracting edges of 1° to 2°, being cemented 
together. By this twin prism each spectrum was decomposed into two 
spectra, and the dimensions of the twin i^rism were so determined that 
on the disk of the collimator one spectrum was situated above the other 
below, while in the middle the second spectrum from the upper slit 
coincided with the second spectrum of the lower slit. In the disk of the 
observing telescope a small opening is made cutting ott' a small piece 
of determinate wave length from the double spectrum, so that on look- 
ing through it the field of vision is seen divided by a line (the refract- 
ing edges of the twin prism) into two halves, both of the same coloring. 
Before each of the two slits of the slit collimator a Nicol prism was placed 
in such a position that light polarized in a vertical plane entered one 
and in a horizontal plane the other. The middle compound spectrum 
consisted therefore of a vertically and a horizontally polarized spectrum, 
and in the field of view the two like-colored halves were also polarized 



614 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

in perpendicular planes. If now the field is viewed through a Nicol 
prism, then according to the position of its principal section would the 
one half at one time and the other half at another time be invisible. 
So that if the two entering beams of light have different inteusities 
their spectra may be equalized in brightness by rotating the Nicol; aud 
from the degree of rotation the relative intensities be inferred. {Nature^ 
June, 1885, xxxii, 191.) 

Balmer, in calculating the wave lengths of the hydrogen lines as given 
by Angstrom, has found a relation between these lines expressed by the 

formula h=—- — jC, when has the value 3,645"6 millionths of a 
vr — 4 

millimeter. In place of m let there be put in turn the numbers 3, 4, 5, 6; 
and the values for Angstrom's wave lengths of the four visible hydrogen 
lines are obtained. If for w, the values 7, 8, &c., up to 16 are used, 
values for hydrogen lines are obtained which correspond very well with 
the wave lengths of the lines which Dr. Huggins had found in the ultra- 
violet spectrum of the white stars and had recognized as the invisible 
hydrogen lines. This relation between the hydrogen lines had now re- 
ceived an increased significance from an investigation by Cornu, in 
which he had found a i:)erfectly determinate proportionality between the 
lines of the ultra-violet spectrum of aluminum aud of thallium, and the 
ultra-violet hydrogen lines. Like the hydrogen lines, the j)airs of lines 
of the two metals referred to advanced much nearer to one another and 
became mnch paler the more one approached the more refrangible 
end of the spectrum; and if any line of the aluminum or the thallium 
spectrum was made to coincide with the corresponding line of the hydro- 
gen spectrum then did all the remaining lines coincide. This relation 
obtained both for the first and for the second components of the pairs 
of lines in the metallic spectra. (Nature, July, 1885, xxxii, 312.) 

Crookes has communicated io the Eoyal Society a paper on radiant 
matter spectroscopy, in which he gives the results of further re- 
searches on the prismatic analysis of the light emitted by the cerium 
group of earths when made to phosphoresce by the impact of radiant 
matter in high vacua. With regard to the double orange band observed 
in 1881, he details at length the extraordinary difficulties overcome in 
localizing it. "After six months' work I obtained the earth didymia in 
a state which most chemists would call absolutely pure, for it contained 
probably not more than 1 part of impurity in 500,000 parts of didymia. 
But this 1 part in 500,000 profoundly altered the character of didymia 
from a radiant matter sx)ectroscopic point of view, and the presence of 
this very minute quantity of interfering impurity entailed another six 
months' extra labor to eliminate these traces and to ascertain the re- 
action of didymia pure and simple." Gradually the matter was nar- 
rowed down and the orange band was finally traced to samarium. Pure 
samarium sulphate alone gives a very feeble phosphorescent spectrum. 
But when the samaria is mixed with lime the spectrum is, if anything, 



PHYSICS. G15 

more beautiful than that of yttrium. The bands are not so numerous, 
but the contrawSts are sharper. Examined with a somewhat broad slit, 
the spectrum is seen to consist of three bright bands, red, orange, and 
green, nearly equidistant, the orange being the brightest. With a nar- 
row slit the orange and green bands are seen to be double, and on closer 
examination faint wings are seen like shadows to the orange and green 
bands. But lime is not the only body which brings out the phospho- 
rescent spectrum. The author divides the samaria spectra, as modified 
by other metals, into three groups. The first comprises the spectra 
given when glucinum, magnesium, zinc, cadmium, lanthanum, bismuth, 
or antimony is mixed with the samarium. It consists simply of three 
colored bands, red, orange, and green. The second type of spectrum 
gives a single red and orange band and a double green band, and is 
produced when barium, strontium, thorium, or lead is mixed with the 
samarium. The third type is given when calcium is mixed with the 
samarium. Here the red and green are single and the orange double. 
Aluminum would also fall into this class were it not that the broad, ill- 
defined, green band is also doubled. On mixing samaria and yttria no 
trace of the yttria spectrum was observable up to 57 per cent, of this 
earth. When it reached 65 per cent, a marked change took place. 
With 44 of samaria and 56 of yttria the pure samarium spectrum is 
given. With 42 samaria and 58 yttria some bands characteristic of each 
earth are seen; while 39 samaria and 61 yttria gives almost a pure 
yttrium spectrum, the sharp orange line, however, running across them 
all. Experiments made to test the delicacy of this method showed that 
when 1 part of samarium is mixed with 100,000 parts of calcium the 
green and red bands have almost disappeared, but the double orange 
band is still very prominent. With 1 to 500,000 and 1 to 1,000,000 the 
spectrum is the same though fainter. With 1 to 2,500,000 the bands of 
samarium have entirely gone and its presence is recognized only by the 
darkening in the yellow portion of what otherwise would be a con- 
tinuous spectrum. {Nature, July, 1885, xxxii, 283.) 

Barker has published an account of the experiments made by Henry 
Draper on the use of carbon disulphide in prisms for optical purposes. 
The extraordinary mobility of this liquid and its extreme sensitiveness 
to heat cause striae in its mass, which interfere with and practically de- 
stroy its definition. Since Dr. Draper's experiments showed it to be the 
only substance by which the necessary dispersion could be readily ob- 
tained for photographing metallic spectra, he was exceedingly desirous 
of improving its definition. The desired object he found was readily ob- 
tained by simple agitation. A wire was passed through the stopper of 
the bottle (Thollon) prism, upon the lower end of which was a small pro- 
peller just dipping into the liquid. By means of a pulley on the upper end 
of the shaft, and a little electric motor, this propeller could be revolved 
rapidly so as to keep the liquid actively agitated. The effect was sur- 
prising. The sodium lines, with the propeller at rest, were fluffy and 



<>1() SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

ill defiued, uuited together and nebulous. But in a few seconds after 
starting- it the lines became clear and remarkably sharp, continuing so 
as long as the motion continued. But now the effect of temperature be- 
came apparent in the shifting of the lines toward the red if the prism 
was rising and toward the blue if falling in temperature. For a change 
of about 9° the shifting was something over 3*5 inches. To overcome 
this shifting the prism was inclosed in an even-temperature box, and 
by means of a simple but ingenious thermostat the temperature was 
regulated so that in seven hours it varied by an amount suificient to 
shift the sodium lines by only the distance between them. {Am. J. 
Sci., April, 1885, III, xxix, 209.) 

Langley has investigated the optical properties of rock salt worked 
into prisms by Clark and by Brashear with such exquisite surfaces 
that they give a spectrum showing the Frauuhofer lines with all the 
sharpness of Hint glass. Indeed, a rock-salt prism made by the latter 
shows the nickel line between the Ds. Experiments with a train of such 
prisms were made to determine not only the indices for different lines 
in the visible and invisible spectrum, but also the apparent transmis- 
sion of rock-salt plates for different parts of the spectrum. Heat spec- 
tra were formed from radiating sources below the temperature of melt- 
ing ice, and it was found that most of the rays, even from these sources, 
passed freely through the prism. With the smallest deviations, corre- 
sponiliug to wave lengths exceeding probably 109,000 of Angstrom's 
scale, a slight absorption began to be noticed. A table is given of the 
refractive indices of a prism of angle 59° 57' 54" for the spectrum lines 
from M in the ultra violet to il in the ultra red ; or from wave length 
0'3727 to 1-32. The values in the visible spectrum are given to six 
places, those in the ultra red to four. For the line M, the refractive 
index is 1-57480; for G, 1-50133; for D, 1-54418; for A, 1-53070; and 
for .(}, 1-5208. In all, seventeen indices were measured. {Ain. J. Sci., 
December, 1885, III, xxx, 477.) 

Lommel has suggested the use of phosphorescent substances, such 
as Balmain's luminous paint or a greenish-blue variety of phosphores- 
cent calcium sulphide, for the purpose of rendering visible the focus of 
ultra-red rays in the well-known experiment of Tyndall on calorescence. 
If such a powder be made slightly iihosphorescent by exposure to or- 
dinary daylight the less refrangible rays increase it to a bright lumi- 
nosity. In place of a solution of iodine in carbon disulphide as the 
absorbing solution, Lommel recommends a solution of nigrosiu in alco- 
hol or chloroform, preferably the latter. {Wied. Ann., 1885, xxvi, 157; 
Phil. Mag., December, 1885, Y, xx, 547.) 

Lommel has shown that if a conical beam of solar light be allowed 
to fall on a cube of Iceland spar, either directly or after passing a co- 
balt-blue glass, the cube emits a beautiful brick red light. This light 
is not polarized and its composition does not depend upon the state of 
polarization of the incident beam. It is comprised between 35 and 05 



PHYSICS. 017 

of Bimsen's scale (between C and D ^ E), its maximum being- near 44. 
The exciting rays are almost exclusively visible rays, tbe most efficient 
being those between E and h. Hence Iceland spar presents a maxi- 
mum of absorption at this point. ( Wied. Ann., xxi, 422 ; J. Phys., ISTo- 
vember, 1885, IT, iv, 535.) 

Abuey has described some lecture experiments on color mixtures, 
employing for this purpose a modification of Maxwell's color box. The 
spectrum, instead of being formed on a screen, is received upon a convex 
lens, which forms an image of the face of the prism on a screen. If all 
the light from the prism falls upon the lens this image is colorless. But 
by interposing a screen with a slit in the spectrum close to the lens, so 
as only to allow light of a given color to fall on the lens, the image aj)- 
pears colored with that light. By using two or more slits mixtures of 
different lights in any required proportion may be obtained. {Nature^ 
July, 1885, XXXII, 2G3.) 

4. Interference and Polarization. 

Lummer has called attention to the fact that if a concave mirror, sil- 
vered over its whole surface excepting a small place the size of the 
pupil, be made to reflect the light of a lami) burning alcohol saturated 
with salt, normally upon a plate of plane glass with parallel faces, the 
eye placed at the opening when adjusted for distant objects will see 
the plate covered with a great number of concentric rings whose centers 
are at the foot of the normal from the center of the pupil on the i>late. 
If a telescope adjusted for parallel rays be substituted for the naked 
eye, the incidence corresponding to each of these rings may be meas- 
ured. This i)henomena has been observed by Haidinger and studied 
by Mascart, who has given a formula giving the difference of path of 
the two interfering rays as a function of the incident angle. The author 
suggests this method to detect want of parallelism in glass, the rings 
being then irregular. ( Wied. Ann., xxiii, 49 ; J. Phys., February, 1885, 
II, IV, 90.) 

Moreland has described a mechanical model which he uses to illustrate 
the phenomena of interference. Two blocks cut in sine curves are at- 
tached to two points by strings fastened to their ends. At a point ex- 
actly per|)endicular to the center of a line joining these two points the 
waves are in the same phase and reinforce each other. By moving both 
blocks either way a position is reached where they are in o^jposite 
phases and interfere. {Am. J. Sci., January, 1885, III, xxix, 5.) 

Stokes has communicated to the Itoyal Society the results of an ex- 
tended investigation of the brilliantly colored iridescent crystals of po- 
tassium chlorate sometimes obtained in the process of manufiicture. 
He regards it as conclusively proved that the seat of the color is in a 
very thin twin stratum, and he entertains little or no doubt that the 
color depends in some way on the different orientation of the planes of 
polarization in the two components of a twin and on the difference of 



618 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

retardation of the two polarized pencils which traverse the thin stratum. 
Anything beyond this is at present only a matter of speculation Only 
two directions are indicated in which to look for a possible explanation; 
and these will form the subject of further investigation. [Nature^ A]>ri) , 
June, July, 1885, xxxi, 565; xxxn, 102, 224.) 

From the researches of Tollens, Landolt, Schmitz, and others it is 
well known that cane sugar and many bther substances have a specific 
rotatory power which varies continuously when the proportion of inactive 
liquid is increased. For sugar, however, the diminution is very feeble 
as the concentration increases, even more feeble than for glucose. With 
dilute solutions containing 1 to 5 per cent, of sugar, Hesse had found 
[ar]j, = 68° about, a number rather higher than is obtained with more 
concentrated solutions. Tollens, operating upon dilute solutions with 
a polarimeter of great sensitiveness, has completely confirmed his earlier 
conclusions, and finds that whatever be the concentration the formula 
[«']p = 66-386 4- 0-015035p — 0-00039862>2, where p is the weight of sugar 
in 100 of solution, always represents the variations of rotatory i)ower. It 
lias been confirmed on solutions containing from 1 to 67 i^er cent, of 
sugar. {Ber. Berl. Ghem. Ges., xvii, 1751.) 

Madan has described a modification of Foucault's and of Ahrens's 
polarizing prisms. Ahrens's prism Is made of three wedges of Iceland 
spar (demented together by Canada balsam. The optic axis in the two 
outer wedges is parallel to the refracting edge, while in the middle 
wedge it is perpendicular to the refracting edge and lies in a plane bi- 
secting the refracting angle. By using three prisms the middle one 
may be given a very large angle, and yet the deviation of the rays may 
be so far corrected that on emergence they make equal angles with the 
central line. Nearly in contact with one of the terminal faces of the 
prism a prism of dense glass is placed of such an angle that it just cor- 
rects the deviation of one of the rays, and also achromatizes it, while 
it increases the deviation of the other ray to such an extent that it may 
be practically disregarded, an eye even when very close to the prism 
perceiving only the direct beam. {Phil. Mag., January, 1885, V, xix, 69.) 
Madan finds that the ordinary ray falls on the second surface of the 
middle prism of this combination at an angle greater than the critical 
angle and is therefore totally reflected if an air film be placed between 
this surface and the following one. Moreover, he finds that the devia- 
tion and the dispersion can be almost entirelj^ corrected by making the 
third prism of crown glass combined with a prism of very dense flint 
glass of smaller angle. Its field is 28°. {Nature, February, 1885, xxxi, 
371.) 

ELECTRICITY. 

1. Magnetism. 

Werner Siemens has published a theory of magnetism and has de- 
tailed the experiments upon which it is based. In the first place, the 
Amperian theory must be extended by suj)posing that not only mag- 



PHYSICS. 019 

netic substances but all bodies, as well as empty space, are fllled with cir- 
cular currents of very small dimensions and that maf?netic substances 
difler from non-magnetic substances only inasmuch as the number of cir- 
cular currents present in the unit volume is much greater in the first 
case than in the second. All magnetic phenomena may then be referred 
to the property of the electric current of exerting a directive force upon 
the molecular solenoids which fill all space, but which are present iu 
greater numbers in the so called magnetic bodies, which place their axes 
at right angles to its direction and tend to bring them into closer con- 
centric attraction circles. The magnitude of this rotation of the axes, 
depends, on the one hand, on the magnitude of the directive or mag- 
netizing force, and, on the other hand, on the number of the molecular 
circuits pre-existing in the unit volume, for which condition the term 
"magnetic conductivity" may be employed, or that of "magnetic resist- 
ance" for its reciprocal value. Since a magnetizing force, acting upon 
the molecular magnets only, exerts a perceptible influence on the rota- 
tion apart from each other of the paired elementary magnets when all 
the neighbors in the magnetic circuit follow the motion and so are able 
to produce a closed system of equilibrium capable of mutual attraction, 
it follows that the rotation directly i)roduced by the magnetizing force 
must be very small in comparison with the mutual strengthening of the 
rotation in the closed magnetic circuit. The magnetic moment pro 
duced must thus be essentially the product of the mutual strengthening 
of rotation of which the magnetizing force is the cause. ( Wied. Ann., 
XXIV, 93; Fhil. Mag., April, 1885, V, xix, 237; J. Phys., September, 1885, 
II, IV, 426.) 

Bosanquet has i^ublished a series of magnetic measurements made to 
test his theory of magnetism. His formulas suppose that each molecule 
has one and only one axis of transmission (like a bead with a hole in it). 
The axis is capable of transmitting a certain number of lines of force 
and no more, and the molecular permeability is proportional to the 
defect of saturation. (If the hole in the bead be packed with thin 
wires the aperture remaining is represented by the number of wires 
that remain to be got in.) Eegarding magnetism as a motion or dis- 
placement, whether dynamic or static, we may thus speak of the molec- 
ular i)ermeability as a coefficient of freedom within the molecule. The 
reciprocal of the coefficient of the forces which tend to prevent the ro- 
tation of the molecule as a whole may be spoken of as a coefficient of 
freedom without the molecule. The product of these two coefficients 
by a constant is a characteristic of a given approximate state of a given 
piece of metal. As between the hard steel and the iron the product of 
the coefficients of freedom is proportional to the maximum permeability. 
In soft steel the molecular forces are chiefly extra-molecular, the free- 
dom intramolecular ; iu hard steel the reverse is true. In soft iron 
the average intra-molecular freedom is much greater than in hard steel, 
the extra-molecuhir tre(Hlom about the same. In soft steel the extra- 



620 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

molecular freedom is much diminished, the intramolecular freedom is 
moderate or high. His figures show a maximum permeability for cast 
iron of 170 to 250, for malleable cast iron of 700 to 800, of wrought iron 
of 1,801) to 2,500, and of charcoal iron of 2,900 to 3,000. Hence the infer- 
ence that ordinary cast iron is wholly unfit for use in dynamo machines. 
Malleable cast iron is an improvement, but is still very far inferior to 
wrought iron. {Phil. Mag., January, February, May, October, 1885, Y, 
XIX, 57, 73, 333, xx, 318.) 

Lippmann has suggested a simple method by which the magnetic po 
tential of a system of coils may be obtained without calculation. The 
three coils, a, /?, and y, are so placed at the summits of an equilateral 
triangle that their axes may form the three sides of an equilateral tri 
angle, ABC. The variation of magnetic potential due to this system, 
and taken from B to C, is exactly equal to the product 4;rwi, i being 
the current strength and n the number of turns in each coil. In order 
to demonstrate this it is sufficient to remark that if the integral of the 
magnetic actions exerted by the coil a considered by itself be taken 
along the contour of the triangle ABC, this integral is exactly equal 
to 4:7rni, because the contour of the triangle is a closed line. On the 
other hand, the action exerted by a on the side CA may be replaced by 
the action of y on the side BC, or the action of a on the side CA may 
be replaced by the action of /J upon the side BC, so that finally the 
action of the system of the three coils on the side BC is equal to the 
sum of the actions exerted by a on the three sides of ABC, i. e., to 
4:7ini, as above. {J. Phys., October, 1885, II, iv, 448.) 

Ewing has communicated to the Royal Society the results of an ex- 
tended investigation into magnetic susceptibility, and the influence 
upon it of various conditions, such as vibration, permanent strain, tem- 
perature, and the like; the experiments having been made in the labor- 
atory of the University of Tokio. {Nature, January, 1885, xxxi, 304.) 

Bakmetieff has studied the conditions of the production of heat by 
alternate magnetizations in a straight wire of iron, measuring the heat 
by means of a thermo-j unction, so that the greater heating in the middle 
portions of the straight magnet and the equality of heating in all parts 
of the annular magnet could be readily observed. The proportionality 
of the heating to the square of the temporary magnetism was not con- 
firmed 5 on the contrary, the author advances another law, i. e., that the 
elevation of temperature of the iron by intermittent magnetization is 
proportional to the product of the magnetizing force and the magnetic 
moment. The greatest elevation of temperature observed corresponds 
to a magnetizing force more than sufficient to saturate the iron; hence 
the author concludes that it is the increase in the motion of the molec- 
ular magnets during magnetization which is most important in the 
production of heat. {J. Soc. Phys. Ghim. Busse, xvi, 81, 257 ; J. Phys., 
December, 1885, II, iv, 593.) 



PHYSICS. fi21 

Fossati has shown that the common imiiression that the strength ol' 
a horseshoe steel magnet is increased by hanging it np and gradually 
increasing the weights hung on its keeper is entirely an error, the in- 
crease in portative force being the same whether the magnet be weighted 
or not. This increase is in all cases much less than is supposed ; and 
its variation is accompanied by a corresponding variation in distribu- 
tion. {11 Niiovo Cimento., XV, 158, 232 ; J. Phys., December, 1885, II, IV, 
565.) 

Barus and Strouhal have published, as the fourteenth Bulletin of the 
U. S. Geological Survey, an extended memoir on the physical charac- 
teristics of the iron carburets; more particularly on the galvanic, ther- 
moelectric, and magnetic properties of wrought iron, steel, and cavSt 
iron in different states of hardness, together with a physical diagram for 
the classification of iron carburets. With reference to steel, the authors 
say : " The diflerence between the logarithms of the respective values of 
thermoelectric hardness for the same carburation passes through a 
pronounced maximum defining a carbide, the mechanical jiroperties of 
which are those of a type steel and may be fully given thus: Let each 
member of the whole series of iron carburets be subjected successively 
to the followingoperations : I, A process of very slow cooling from a given 
temperature in red heat ; II, a jirocess of most rapid cooling possible from 
the same temperature. If now the carburets be examined with reference 
to the hardnes.s produced in the two istances there will be found among 
them a certain unique member whose properties are such that while 
process I has more nearly identified it with pure soft iron, process II will 
have moved it farther away from this initial carburet than is simulta- 
neuosly the case with any other iron-cjjrbon product; a unique member, 
in other words, which is capable of occurring in the greatest number of 
states of hardness relative to the soft state possible. To the said prod- 
uct the term ' steel' is to be applied." 

Perkins has made an investigation on the variation of the magnetic 
permeability of nickel at different temperatures and has plotted the re- 
sults obtained. The curves show that at the first all the magnetism is 
temporary. The permeability rises to a maximum at about the same 
place as that of total magnetization, then falls less rapidly and approaches 
the total, though it is evident that it can never reach it, since the jjerma- 
uent magnetism cannot be less for a high magnetizing force than for a 
lower at any given temperature. {Am. J. Sci., Septembei", 1885, III, 
XXX, 218.) 

Hurion has examined and confirmed the statement of Eighi that the 
electric resistance of bismuth increases when this metal is subjected to 
the action of an electro-magnet. From his experiments he concludes 
that the variation in the resistance of bismuth under these circumstances 
arises in great part from the mechanical action exerted b^' the magnetic 
lield on the naet^l J^owever;, it seems tbat^ the variiitiop of tl]f> resist 



622 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

ance is a little more rapid than this mechaDical action. {J. Phys., April, 
1885, II, IV, 171.) 

Topler has sug|!^ested the use of the balance in measuring the quan- 
tity MH in determiniug the horizontal component of the earth's mag- 
netism. For tbis purpose a magnetized bar is fixed perpendicularly to 
the brass beam of a balance in place of the ordinary pointer. Weights 
are placed in the scale pans in order to make the axis of the magnet 
vertical when the plane of oscillation is in the magnetic meridian. The 
balance is then turned through 180° and again the axis is adjusted to 
verticality by shifting- the weights. MH is then equal to ^ (Qi— Q2) ^ ', 
in which I is the length of that arm of the beam to which the weights 
Qi and Q2 have been added. The author details the precautions neces- 
sary to insure accuracy, and claims 40^0 ^s the limit of precision of the 
method. ( Wied. Ann., xxi, 158; J. Phys., December, 1885, II, iv, 587.) 

Gray has described the methods in use in the laboratory of the Univer- 
sity, Glasgow, for determining- the value of the earth's horizontal com- 
ponent. Experiments to determine the effect of length and hardness 
on the induction coefficient of the deflector magnets show that the 
length of the magnets should be at least forty times their diameter and 
that they should be made as hard as possible. The results are given 
in a table. {Phil. Mag., December, 1885, V, xx, 484.) 

2. Electric Generators. 

The paper on the seat of the electro motive forces in the voltaic cell 
with which Lodge opened the discussion of this subject at the Montreal 
meeting- of the British Association has ai)peared in full, and is a most 
valuable and impartial resume of the history of this important subject, 
and an able argument in favor of the views that the apparent difference 
of potential of copper and zinc is in fact the sum of a copper-air and a 
zinc-air contact difference. {Proc. British Assoc, for 1884, 464; Proc. 
aS'oc. Teleg. Eng. and Elec, xiv, 186 ; Phil. Mag., March, April, May, 
June, October, 1885, Y, xix, 153, 254, 340, 487; xx, 372.) 

Koosen has constructed a form of battery based on the depolarizing 
action of bromine. It consists of a glass jar having a narrow prolonga- 
tion at its lower portion to contain the bromine, above which is a porous 
plate supporting- a porous cup containing a rod of amalgamated zinc. 
A platinum wire traversing the porous plate makes communication 
with the bromine. The uijper portion of the jar is tilled with dilute 
sulphuric acid, on which rests a thin layer of jjetroleum to prevent the 
escape of the bromine vapors into the atmosphere. The electro-motive 
force of the combination is 14) volts and becomes somewhat higher if 
the platinum is replaced by carbon. The internal resistance is consid- 
erable, but the battery is very constant. {Wied. Ann., xxiii, 348; J. 
Phys., August, 1885, II, iv, 373.) 

Von Helmholtz has constructed a modified form of Daniell cell, which 
consists of a deep glass goblet, in the bottom of which is a copper spiral 



PHYSICS. 623 

connected with a platinum wire insulated in a glass tube and reaching 
to the surface. The spiral is covered with copper sulphate solution, 
which can be replaced by fresh solution poured in through a funnel 
reaching to the bottom. On this solution lies a solution of zinc sulphate 
in which the zinc cylinder is placed. A siphon whose outer leg is 
directed from below ui)wards dips into the liquids as far as the bound- 
ing plane, so that on pouring in fresh copper solution only the colorless 
supernatant zinc solution flows off. The upper solution is by this means 
kept free of copper, although after awhile some copper was found to be 
precipitated upon the zinc cylinder, not sufficient, however, to impair 
the constancy of the ceil. {Nature, January, 1885, xix, 308 ; Am. J. ScL, 
March, 1885, III, xxix, 257.) 

Hayes and Trowbridge have investigated by a photographic method 
the irregularities which occur in the action of galvanic batteries, and 
have sought to ascertain the cause thereof. Since batteries in which 
there is no porous partition do not show irregularities, while those con- 
taining porous cups all give more or less mai'ked variations, the authors 
believe that these irregularities are due, first, to a clogging of the 
pores of the partition by some product of the action, and, second, to 
electrical osmose ; the undulations being due to the former cause, and the 
fluctuations, which are superposed upon the undulations, to the latter. 
A cup of very dense earthenware gives both undulations and fluctuations, 
while one which was very porous gave fluctuations without undulations. 
Since, as Wiedemann has shown, a porous cup increases the amount of 
metal transported to the negative pole and diminishes the quantity of 
acid at the positive pole, a battery containing a small, thick cup and 
giving a strong current will possess a maximum force tending to drive 
the liquid and base from the i^ositive pole and to cause a corresponding 
decrease in the current strength. Hence tlie partition should be made 
of as large surface dimensions as possible, and should be made of very 
porous material. {Am. J. Sci., July, 1885, III, xxx, 34.) 

It follows, as a consequence of the law of the conservation of energy, 
as has been shown by Von Helmholtz and Thomson, that the electro-mo- 
tive force of non-polarizing batteries is proportional to the energy of 
the reactions developed in them by the passage of the current and may 
be calculated from these reactions. To make this proposition incontest- 
able it is necessary that the total chemical energy of the battery should 
be converted necessarily into electric energy. The theoretical discus- 
sion of this question has been recently made b;y Von Helmholtz, and 
Czapski has undertaken to investigate experimentally the following re- 
sults drawn from Von Helmholtz's conclusions : The batteries which do 
not transform all the chemical energy into electrical energy are those 
the electro-motive force of which decreases as the temperature rises, 
and those which produce an electrical energy in excess of their calorific 
energy are those in which the electro-motive force increases with the 
|:emperature. Czapski's results confirm in general this theory of Vop 



624 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Helmholtz. {Wied. Ann., xxi, 209; J. Phys., December 1885, TI, rvr, 
578.) 

Bidwell Las constructed a voltaic cell having a solid electrolyte. He 
exhibited to the London Physical Society a cell consisting of plates of sil- 
ver and copper, between which was contained a mixture of one part of cop- 
I)er sulphide and five of sulphur. The electro motive force was 0-07 volt 
and the internal resistance 6,537 ohms, and the current readily deflected 
the needle of a reflecting galvanometer so as to throw the light off the 
scale. A second cell was made with a copper plate on which copper sul- 
phide had been pressed and a silver plate resting on silver sulphide on the 
surface of the copper suljihide. The silver plate was brushed over with a 
dilute solution of sulphur in carbon disnlphide and then heated till the 
free sulphur was driven off. On putting the cell together it produced a 
current of 6,800 micro-amperes through an external resistanceof 0-2ohni. 
The copper and silver plates were each 2h by 2 inches, and the thickness of 
the two layers of sulphide 0.05 inch. The electro-motive force of the cell 
is 0-053 volt, and its internal resistance is therefore about 7 ohms. 
{Nature, August, 1885, xxxil, 345 ; PJiil. Mag., October, 1885, V, xx, 
328.) 

The interesting subject of the behavior of selenium to light as regards 
its electric resistance has been examined by several investigators. AVer 
ner Siemens has described the electro-motive action of certain selenium 
cells sent to him by Fritts, who first observed in them the fact that, 
when ])laced in circuit with a galvanometer, an electric current flowing 
from the gold leaf to the base plate was generated by the action of 
light. Siemens confirms this observation and regards it as of the great- 
est scientific imi)ortance. Since obscure thermal rays are without effect, 
the action cannot be a thermo-electric one. Moreover, the electromotive 
force developed is proportional to the intensity of the light. He con- 
cludes, therefore, that " here we meet for the first time with an instance 
of the direct conversion of the energy of light into electrical energy." 
{Ber. Al: Berl., February, 1885; Phil. Mag., April, 1885, V, xix, 315; 
Am. '). Sci., June, 1885, III, xxix, 495.) 

Bidwell has investigated very carefully the phenomena of selenium 
cells and is disposed to regard the change of resistance by the action 
of light as a phenomenon of electrolysis. Since the selenium in the 
cells has always undergone a prolonged heating in contact with the me- 
tallic terminals, selenides of these metals may exist within the selenium, 
forming a kind of network, thus affording the conducting material 
throughout the mass. A cell constructed of silver wires and sulphur 
containing some silver sulphide was sensitive, its resistance being re- 
duced to one-third by burning a jMece of magnesium wire near it. In 
the electrolysis of silver 8uli)hide, however, sulphur itself would be de- 
posited on the metallic plate, and the resistance would be enormously 
increased, unless under the action of light this sulphur united with the 
silver. Moreover, he finds the specific resistance of seleniuja tp be 2,500 



i 



PHYSICS. fi25 

uiegolims, a value very much higher than that in the cells, thus sug- 
gesting' the formation of selenides which act as conducting bodies. 
{Phil. Mag., August, 1885, V, xx, 178; Nature, June, July, 18S5, xxxii, 
167, 215; Am. J. Set., October, 1885, III, xxx, 313.) 

The Olamoud thermo-battery has been improved in the details of its 
construction and its efficiency increased. A model made up of one hun- 
dred and twenty pairs gave an electro-motive force of 8 volts and had 
an internal resistance of only 3-2 ohms. Another battery, containing 
sixty pairs, gave an electro motive force of 3*() volts and an internal re- 
sistance of only 0*65 ohm. Both batteries consumed about the same 
amount of gas, about 180 liters per hour. {Am. J. Sci., June, 1885, ill, 
XXIX, 495.) 

Kayser has given to the Berlin Physical Society an account of the 
measurements he has made on an improved form of Noe thermoelec- 
tric generator, differing from the old one in the fact that the bars of the 
.bismuth alloy are now connected by strips of an alloy oft'eriug greater 
resistance to heat than did the wires formerly used. The resistance at 
the ordinary temperature was 0-9 Siemens unit and rose as the gas con- 
sumption increased to about 1*2 s. u. when this consumption was G0«* *^. 
per hour. The curve of electro-motive force formed a straight line. 
As to the cost of generating electricity in this way, a current of one 
ampere for an hour cost about one pfennig, whereas with the Bunsen 
cell the cost is about three times as great. {Nature, January, 1885, xxxi, 
308.) 

Von Waltenhofen has observed that if an electric current from any 
source whatever be passed through an ordinary thermo-electric ele- 
ment, and then the element be put on a closed circuit, a current will be 
obtained contrary in direction to the exciting current. This inverse 
current results of course from the difference of temperature produced 
by the current at the junctions in virtue of the Peltier effect. If, how- 
ever, the ordinary thermo-electric element be replaced by a dissymetric 
thermopile, like the Noe battery, it will be observed that, according to 
the direction of the current sent into it, the intensity of the secondary 
current will vary, but its direction will remain the same. It is therefore 
independent of the direction of the charging current. ( Wied. Ann., xxi, 
SCO; J. PJnjs., December, 1885, II, iv, 572.) 

3. Electrical Units and Measurements. 

Jamiesou has presented a paper to the Society of Telegraph Engineers 
and Electricians upon electrical definitions, nomenclature, and notation, 
calling iutention to the very considerable confusion of the electrical 
vocabulary in consequence of the rapid progress of electrical science, a 
variety of terms being used to express the same idea on the one baud 
and on the other the same term being used in many different senses. 
He sngaests how these names should be restricted, and gives a set of 
symbols for them by which they should always be represented in for- 
11. Mis. 15 40 



626 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

mulas. The society was asked to appoint a committee to take this sub- 
ject into consideration and to act with a similar committee already ap- 
pointed by the Soci^te Internationale des Elecrriciens. (Proc. Soc. Teleg, 
Eng. and Elec, xiv, 297 ; Nature. June, 1885, xxxii, 184.) 

The British Association committee on electrical standards reported 
at the Aberdeen meeting, through the secretary, that they had had con- 
structed a series of coils to serve as standards in terms of the legal 
(Paris) ohm, assuming this ohm to be 1-0112 B. A. unit. These stand- 
ards, ten in number, had been carefully compared with each other, by 
the methods already described in reports of the committee, and also 
with mercury tube resistances prepared by Benoit, of Paris. The legal 
ohm standards as constructed by the committee exceed those constructed 
in Paris by 0-00049 legal ohm. Standards of electro-motive force and of 
capacity should also be issued by the committee, in their opinion. (Na- 
ture^ October, 1885, xxxii, 528.) 

Klemencic has determined the ratio between the electro-static and 
the electro-magnetic systems of units by the following method : The 
current of a battery of 9 to 15 Dauiell cells is made to charge a condenser 
which is then discharged through the wire of a galvanometer. The per- 
manent de^datiou Avhich results from these continuous discharges is 
noted, as well as the arc of impulsion of the galvanometer under the in- 
fluence of the direct current from the battery. The capacity of the con- 
denser is then calculated in electro-magnetic measure. The value in 
electro-static measure is deduced from the theory of Kirchhoff. In other 
experiments the battery charges the condenser, and at the same time 
acts upon a diflereutial galvanometer through one of its coils placed in 
shunt circuit. The discharge of the condenser traverses the second 
wire and the resistances are so regulated that there is no deviation. 
The author gives as the value of the constant v of Maxwell, 3-0188 x 
1010 cm. sec. {Ber. Al\ ^¥^en., 1884, 88; J. Pliys., April, 1885, II, iv, 183.) 

Fletcher has determined the value of the B. A. unit of resistance in 
terms of the mechanical equivalent of heat, and has obtained the value 
0*9904 earth quadrants per second. The method consisted in simul- 
taneous thermal and electrical observations of the energy expended 
by an electrical current in a coil of wire immersed in a calorimeter. 
{Am. J. Scl, July, 1885, III, xxx, 22.) 

Himstedt has published the results of his determination of the ohm 
made by a method suggested by him in 1884. The constant deviations 
of a magnetic needle in the same galvanometer, produced in the one 
case by means of induction currents j)assing in the same direction 
through the galvanometer at the rate of n per second, and in the other 
by means of a constant current whose strength is a known fraction ot 
the inducing current, are carefully observed, and from the data thus 
obtained the resistance can be calculated. The lowest value obtained 
for the resistance of tbe Siemens unit was 0-94323 and the highest 
0-94380 ohm, the uiean l)eing 0-94356 ohm. Hence 1 ohm is equiva- 



PHYSICS. 627 

leut to the resistance of a mercury column having a section of 1 square 
millimeter and a length of 105-98 centimeters at 0° centigrade. {Phil, 
Mag., November, 1885, V, xx, 417.) 

Wild gives from his measurements the number 0'94315 ohm for the 
value of 1 Siemens unit, and therefore gives 106-027 centimeters as the 
length of the mercury column representing the ohm at 0°. {Am. J. Sei., 
February, 1885, III, xxix, 168.) 

Because of the importance of having as little heating as possible in 
all instruments for electric measurement, the question has arisen whether 
the coils of such instruments should be made of German-silver wire or 
of copper wire or partly of both, and how the diameters of the wire should 
vary in different parts of the coil. Ayrton and Perry have investigated 
the conditions that make this heating error a minimum with cylindrical 
coils of given internal a7id external radii, and have reached the conclu- 
sion that the wire should be of copper and that the increase of cross- 
section proceeding irom the center should be a;=Xo **"-''• Other points in 
connection with these instruments were discussed. {Nature, July, 1885, 
xxxii, 215.) 

Fleming has constructed a standard Daniellcell, consisting of a U tube, 
in the two limbs of which are the two solutions of copper sulphate and 
zinc sulphate of the same specific gravity. Electrodes made of freshly 
electro deposited copper and pure zinc that has been twice distilled dip 
into the two limbs. The electro-motive force of this cell is 1.102 volts, 
and the variation with temperature is practically nil. The various con- 
ditions affecting the electro-motive force of this cell were carefully studied. 
{FUl. Mag., August, 1885, V, xx, 126 ; Nature, July, 1885, xxxii, 263.) 

Hesehus has designed an amjieremeter founded on the j)henomenon 
of Peltier. A thermo-electric battery of 12 iron-German silver elements, 
in the form of wires 2-3™™ in diameter, is so arranged that the opposite 
junctions are contained in two vessels which form the reservoirs of a 
differential air thermometer. A current passed through the battery heats 
the even junctions and cools the uneven ones, or vice versa; and this 
causes a change of level in the thermometer proportional to the inten- 
sity of the current, eliminating the heating of the conductors. One 
division on the scale of his apparatus corresponds to 0-66 ampere. {J. 
8oc. Phy.s. CJiim. Busse, xvi, 452 ; J. Phys., December, L885, II, iv, 587.) 

Eoseuthai has devised a galvanometer of great range and great sensi- 
tiveness, the needle of which is a horseshoe magnet suspended by a 
long fiber attached to its neutral point. The iwles of the magnet are 
jjrovided with horizontal pole pieces which are quadrantal arcs of a 
circle the center of which lies in the axis of suspension of the horseshoe. 
These pole pieces can play within the axis of two galvanometer bobbins 
placed on opposite sides of the vertical suspension plane when this 
plane coincides with the magnetic meridian. When an electric current 
passes through the coils these pole pieces are respectively drawn in or 
repelled by the two bobbins. In this way the poles of the magnet can 



628 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

be brought very uear the center of the coils. Without tljc exterior 
magnet, O-l'"'" deflection at a scale distance of 2-7 meters corresponds 
to 54 X 10-^** ampere; with this magnet, to 12 x 10"^'" ampere. With 
a German-silver and iron couple a difference of 10° between the junc- 
tions gave a deflection of 120™"^ through 1,000 ohms. ( Wied. Atm., 
XXIII, 677; Am. J. Sci., February, 1885, III, xxix, 167.) 

Anthony has devised a large tangent galvanometer for the laboratory 
of Cornell University as a standard instrument for the measurement of 
heavy currents and for the direct calibration of commercial measuring 
apparatus. It has four circles, two of which are 2 meters in diameter 
and two are 1-6 meters, mounted on the plan of Von Helmholtz at dis- 
tances apart equal to their radii, and made of rods of copper 0-75 inch 
in diameter. The needle is suspended by a silk fiber and is inclosed in a 
mass of copper, which serves as an eftectual dam{)er and enables readings 
to be made very rapidly. A special arrangement of mirrors and tele- 
scopes permits the reading of the deflections in angular measure on a 
circle 50 inches in diameter to within 0-3 of a minute of arc. The cop- 
per conductors are mounted on a brass framework accurately turned 
and adjusted and the dimensions are all known within one five- thou- 
sandth part. For the measurement of currents there are two circles, each 
1-5 meters in diameter and each having two conductors, together com- 
prising seventy-two turns of No. 12 copper wire. (Electrician and Elec- 
trical Engineer, October, 1885, iv, 372 ; JS/ature, October, 1885, xxxii, 634.) 

Mather has suggested the calibration of a galvanometer by a constant 
current as follows : A current is passed through its coils, and the instru- 
ment is turned through any angle and the deflection 6 noted. The 
current is broken, and the needle swings back into the meridian, pass- 
ing through an angle S. This operation is repeated with the same cur- 
rent, the galvanometer being in various positions; and a curve is drawn 
showing the relation between sin 6 -^ sin d and the corresponding values 
of 6. When now the instrument is used in its normal position it is 
obvious that a current producing a deflection 8 of the needle is propor- 
tional to the value of sin 6'-;-siu (5 corresponding to 6 obtained in the 
calibration experiment ; and this value can be read off directly from the 
curve. (Nature, December, 1885, xxxiii, 166.) 

Trowbridge, while in general preferring the electro-dynamometer in 
the form devised by hioi to his cosine galvanometer (described in 1871) 
for the measurement of strong currents, yet has suggested a n)ethod of 
using the latter instrument which removes most of the objections. The 
galvanometer is so mounted that its compass is at the center of a large 
circle of wire the plane of which is vertical and in the plane of the 
needle. When the strong current is passed through the large vertical 
coil the arrangement acts as a tangent galvanometer. The movable coil 
of the cosine galv^anometer is then connected with a Daniel! cell of 
known electro-motive force, and in the same circuit a resistance is placed 
so large that the battery resistance may be neglected, and, having joined 



PHYSICS. f)29 

the poles in such manner that the deflection produced by the coil of 
the cosine galvanometer shall be opposite to that i)ioduced by the cm- 
rent in the large outer coil, the coil of the cosine galvanometer is in- 
clined until the compass needle is brought again to zero. In this way 
'the strength of the dynamo current is obtained in terms simply of the cur- 
rent from the standard Daniell cell, and the method is independent of the 
strength of the earth's magnetism and of the special field in which the 
instrument is placed. {Am. J. Sci., March, 1885, III, xxix, 236 ; Pliil. 
Mag., May, 1885, V, xix, 396.) 

Cailletet and Bouty have determined the conductivity of the metals 
at very low temperatures, in baths of methyl chloride, either alone or 
mixed with carbon dioxide snow, and of liquid ethylene, the temperatures 
being determined by means of the hydrogen thermometer. They con- 
clude: (1) That from 0° to —100° the formula r^ = /•„ (1 -f- « t), in which 
r„ and }\ represent the resistance at 0° and + i°, t the temperature, and 
a the increase-coefficient, represents the variation of resistance for the 
pure metals with sufficient exactness ; (2) that if a be determined by 
the use of a metallic spiral, the temperatures from 0° to — 100° may be 
measured by the variation of resistance of this spiral with an error of 
less than 1°; (3) that for each metal a has a special value, which is in gen- 
eral somewhat above that of the expansion-coefficient of a gas. Hence 
the application of the formula above given leads to a zero value for the 
resistance at a temperature somewhat above —273°. It follows, there- 
fore, that at exceedingly low temperatures the variation of resistance be- 
comes less rapid. The temperatures calculated from the above formula 
consequently are, for these low temperatures, too near zero. {J. Phys., 
July, 1885, II, IV, 297.) 

Bartoli has examined twenty-three varieties of carbon with reference 
to their electric resistance. He concludes that to be a conductor the 
carbon should not contain more than 1-2 per cent, of hydrogen, and should 
have been submitted to a temperature not below a red heat. He finds 
that an intimate mixture of twenty parts of paraffin and one of graphite, 
by fusion, however, conducts so well that plates of it may be employed 
as electrodes; and yet elementary analysis would show 14-3 per cent, 
of hydrogen. He believes, therefore, that the conductivity of carbons 
is due exclusively to the presence in them of finely divided graphite 
intimately mixed throughout their mass. {II Nuovo Cimento, xv, 203; 
J. Phys., December, 1885, II, iv, 563.) 

4. Electric Sparh and Electric Light. 

Rdlund has contributed further experimental evidence of the position 
maintained by him, that an absolute vacuum is a good conductor and 
that the increase of resistance exi^erienced in the ordinary tubes as the 
exhaustion proceeds is due to the development of a progressively in- 
creasing counter electro-motive force at the electrodes, a point whic^h he 
has now rendered probable. A glass tube, 30<"" long and 16""" in diam- 



030 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

eter, })rovided with two platinum wire electrodes, the ends being 3°"" 
apart, and with two bauds of tin foil, was connected to the mercury 
pump while the terminals of an induction coil were connected alter- 
nately with the electrodes and with the tin-foil bands. When the press- 
ure in the tube was above SG"""" no discharge could be observed be- 
tween the tin-foil coatings, though that between the platinum wires be- 
came very brilliant. At about 1™°^ a luminosity between the armatures 
was observable, which increased to 0-004™'" when it was intense, the 
spark between the electrodes being feeble. At 0-00030'"'" the electrode 
spark appeared only occasionally, while the armature discharge was 
constant and very bright. The two discharges give exactly oi)posite 
results, that between the electrodes diminishing with the exhaustion 
and that between the armatures increasing with it. The author can 
explain this and other similar experiments only by the supposition 
that the resistance of the vacuum itself diminishes as the rarefaction 
increases and that there is developed simultaneously at the electrode a 
condition which hinders the passage of the electricity into the air from 
the metal. {Phil. Mag., February, 1885, V, xix, 125 ; J. Phys., June, 
1885, II, IV, 273.) " I 

Goldstein has made the following remarkable experiment on the prop- 
agation of electricity through a vacuum. A Geissler tube has for its 
negative electrode either a platinum loop or a carbon filament from a 
Swan lamp. By means of a battery these loops are raised to incan- 
descence, and then the discharge of an induction coil is sent into the 
tube. A shunt circuit connected with the two spherical terminals of 
a spark interrupter permits the graduation of the length of spark sent 
through the tube. Measured in this way the resistance of the Geissler 
tube is at least one hpndred times less when the electrodes are heated 
to incandescence than when the cathodes are cold. The incandescence 
of the positive electrode is without influence. {Ber. AJ:. Wien, 1884, 
58; J. Phys., April, 1885, II, iv, 182.) 

This result appears entirely analogous with certain phenomena ob- 
served by Edison in the spring of 1884 in his incandescent lamps. Insert- 
ing a platinum electrode in the lamp, betweeti the- sides of the carbon 
loop, he noticed that when the lamp was brought up to incandescence 
a galvanometer connected on the one skle to this platinum plate and on 
the other to the positive conductor, showed a deflection increasing with 
the degree of incandescence. The carbon filament was, in this case, an 
incandescent electrode as above, and the electromotive force of the 
machine, about 110 volts, was under these conditions sufficient to cause 
a discharge through the vacuum. {Science, October, 1884, iv, 374; Na- 
ture, April, 1885, xxxi, 545.) 

Lehmann concludes that the apparent difference of properties of 
positive and negative electrification in vacuum tubes is due entirely to 
secondary actions dependent upon the state of charge which the air 
takes in consequence of its friction against the electiodes. This elec- 



PHYSICS. (!.'^)1 

trification thus produced is always positive, and tberelbie llie discharge 
is favored at the cathode and rendered more diificult at the anode. 
Indeed, the latter is, in a certain sense, prolonged by the layer of gas, 
positively electrified, which surrounds it, and which produces the dark 
-space around this electrode. In this space the discharge is convective 
and continuous, becoming luminous and discontinuous only beyond it 
at a variable distance depending upon the pressure of the gas and 
upou its temperature. ( Wied. Ann.^ xxii, 305 ; J. Phys., December, 
1885, II, IV, 570.) 

Jfaccari and Guglielmo have continued their investigations on the 
heating of the electrodes jjroduced by the induction spark in rarefied 
air. They had previously shown that for pressures of air above 10'"'" 
the negative electrode heated more than the positive in the ratio of 1 
to between 2 and 4. For lower pressures they now show that this ratio 
increases slowly up to a pressure of 5™'», more rapidly from 5 to 1-2'"'", and 
very rapidly up to a pressure of 0-27™™, when it reaches a maximum 
value of 28. It then decreases, and for the lowest pressures obtainable 
is reversed and becomes less than 1. (J. Phys., December, 1885, II, iv, 
561.) 

Ayrton and Perry have communicated to the Physical Society of 
London a paper on the most economical potential difference to employ 
with Edison incandescent lamps. They point out the fact that it is not 
sufficient to know that when a lamp is giving out a certain number of 
candles it absorbs so much power per candle, and when giving out a 
much larger number of caudles it absorbs so much less power i)er can 
die. What must be known in addition is the life of the lamp ar each 
of these two candle-powers before we can decide upon the most economi- 
cal temperature for it ; since if the efficiency is low at low temperatures, 
the hfe is great, and at high temperatures the larger efficiency will be 
balanced somewhat by its short life. From a curve given by calcula- 
tion, and assuming the cost of the lamp 5,S'., the number of hours of burn- 
ing per year 560, and the cost of one electric horse-power for this lime 
as £5, the authors show that the minimum cost per candle per year is 
lid., and is obtained with a potential value of 101-4 volts, the cost ris- 
ing to Is. per year if the potential falls to 98-7 or rises to 104 volts. 
{Pliil Mag., April, 1885, V, xix, 304 5 Nature, March, 1885, xxxi, 450.) 

Fleming has made extended investigations into the phenomena of 
incandescent lamps with special reference to their efficiency. From 
statistics concerning the life, resistance, efficiency, and potential differ- 
ence of such lamps he has constructed empirical equations showing the 
mutual relations of these variables. A curve showing the relation of 
any one of these to any other is called a characteristic curve for that 
lamp. His results confirmed the law formulated by Ayrton and Perry, 
that for a certain class of lamps {i. e. the Edison) the potential difierence, 
minus a constant, varies as the cube root of the efficieucj', the latter 
quantity being measured in candles per horse-power. The constant 



632 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

which in the lamps examined is about 28-7, is nearly the potential dif- 
ference at which the lamps begin to emit light. Hence the law may be 
stated as follows : The effective potential difference varieu as the cabe 
root of the efficiency. {Phil. Mag., May, 1885, V, iix, 368 ; Nature, 
April, 1885, xxxi, 522.) 

Fleming has further studied the phenomenon of molecular shadows 
in Edison incandescent lamps. In his earlier experiments he suggested 
the similarity of the phenomenon in question to those observed in high 
vacua by Crookes, the surface of the glass being coated with a deposit 
of carbon, with the exception of a clear bne marking the intersection of 
the glass with the plane of the loop, and being in fact a shadow of the 
loop, apparently caused by the emission of matter from the terminals. 
The author has now succeeded in producing this phenomenon at will by 
passing a very strong current momentarily through a lamp, and has 
produced similar deposits of various metals used as electrodes. These 
deposits show colors by transmitted light, and, as a general resulr, he 
concludes that red metals, such a gold and copper, appear green by 
transmitted light, whereas wbite metals, like silver and platinum, ap- 
pear brown. This result is obviously of the same character as that ob- 
tained by Wright— Am. J. ScL, 1877, III, xiii, 49; xiv, 169. {Phil. 
Mag., August, 1885, V, XX, 141 ; Nattire, July, 1885, xxxii, 263 ; Am. 
J. Sci., October, 1885, III, xxx, 314.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PHYSICS, 1885. 

Practical Physics. R. T. Glazebrook and W. N. Shavr. 16mo. pp.,xxii, 487. Lon- 
don and New York, 1885. 

Lessons in Elementary Practical Physics. Balfonr Stewart and W. W. H. Gee. Vol. 
I. General Physical Processes. 16nio. pp. xvi, 298. London, 1885. (Macmil- 
lan.) 

Properties of Matter. P. G. Tait. 16mo. pp. viii, 320. Edinburgh, 1885. (Black.) 

Mathematical and Physical Papers. Prof. Sir Wm. Thomson. Vol. II. 8vo. Cam- 
bridge University Press, 1884. 

Outlinesof Natural Philosophy. J.D.Everett. 12mo. London, 1885. (Blackie.) 

Corso di fisica applicata. G. Grassi. 8vo. pp. 5Q0. Napoli, 1884. (Pellerano.) 

Elementi di fisica e meccanica applicata alia nautica. Meteorologia e geografia lisica 
del mare. E. M. Russo. 2 vols. 8vo. pp. 624, 591. Napoli, 1884. (Pellerano.) 

Physical Arithmetic. A. Macfarlane. 8vo. pp. 354. London, 1885. (Macmillan.) 

Grundziige der Molecular-Physik und der mathematischen Chemie. W. C. Wittwer. 
8vo. pp. vii, 198. Stuttgart, 1885, 

Ueber den Begrift" der Kraft mit Beriicksichtigung des Gesetzes vou der Erhaltung der 
Kraft. E. Dreher. 8vo. Berlin, 1885. 

Histoire des sciences math^matiques et physiques. M. Marie. 8vo. pp. 264. Paris, 
1885. ( Gauthier-Villars. ) 

Syllabus of a Hundred Physical Measurements. H. Whiting. 12mo. Cambridge, 
1885. (Wheeler.) 

Problfemes de physique avec leurs solutions d^velopp^es. A. F. Chevallier et A. 
Mueutz. 2d ed. 8vo. pp. viii, 205. Paris, 1885. 



PHYSICS. 63.- 



Physikalischo Technik specii'il Anloituug zur Selbstanfertigiiiig physikalischftr Ap- 

parate. 0. Lehmami. 8vo. pp. xii, 419. Leipzig, 1885, 
Elementary Mechanics. O. J. Lodge. 12mo. pp. 208. Edinbnrgli, 1885. (Cham- 
bers. ) 
Cours do m^cauique et machines profess6 a I'ficole polytechnique. Tome I. Ciu6- 

matiqiie, dynamique du point matdriel, statique. Bresse. 8vo. pp. xxii, .^>;J9. 

Paris, 1884. (Ganthier-Villars.) 
Treatise ou dynamics. W. H. Besant. 8vo. pp. 320. London, 1885. 
An elementary treatise on dynamics, containing applications to thermodynamics; 

with numerous examples. B. Williamson and F. A. Tarleton. Bvo. pp. 460. 

London, 1885. (Longmans.) 
Anfgaben zur Theorieelastischer Korper. J. J. Weyrauch. 8vo. pp. x, 350. Leip- 
zig, 1885. (Tenbuer.) 
Sammlungvon Problemender analytischen Mechanik. F, Krafl't. Bandl. Bvo. pp. 

ti50. Stuttgart, 1885. 
Die Entstehung der Sprache durch Nachahmuug des Schalles. Th. Curti. Hvo. pp. 

72. Stuttgart, 1885. 
Die Schall- und Ton-Starke und das Schallleitungsvermogen der Korper. K. von 

Vierordt. 8vo. pp. xxii, 274. Tiibingen, 1885. (Laupp.) 
On a method of precisely measuring the vibratory periods of tuning forks and. the 

determinations of the laws of the vibrations of forks ; with special reference of 

the.se facts and lav.s to the action of a simple chrouoscope. A. M. Mayer. 4to. 

pp.17. Washington, 18S5. (Mem.Nat. Acad. Sciences, III.) 
The sensations of tone as a physiological basis for the theory of music. H. L. F. von 

Helmholtz. 2d Eng. ed. Trans, by A. J. Ellis. 4to. pp. xx, 576. London, 1885. 

(Longmans.) 
Recherches exp^rimentales et analytiques sur les machines d, vapeur. Du degr6 

d'exactitude des donn6es d'observation d'un essai de machine h vapeur. R6pons6 

iiM.A. Hirn. G. Leloutre. Bvo. pp.24. Paris, 1885. (Tignol.) 
Terniodinatoica. C. Cattaneo. 16mo. pp. ix, 195. Milano, 1884. 
Etude sur la thermo-dynamique appliqu^e h. la production de la force motrice et du 

froid. Ch. Tellier. Bvo. pp. vii, 549. Paris, 1884. 
Siedetemperatur und Druck in ihren Wechselbeziehungen. G. W. A. Kahlbaum. 

8vo. pp. viii, 153. Leipzig, 1885. (Barth.) 
Om stralande varnies diffusion par plana ytor. K. Angstrom. Bvo. pp. 55. Upsala, 

1885. 
Recherches oxp^rimentales et analytiques sur les machines h vapeur du Woolf. G. 

Leloutre. Bvo. pp. 5B. Paris, 1885. (Tignol.) 
On Light. Second course. On Light as a means of investigation. G. G. Stokes. 

16mo. pp. viii, 107. London, 1885, 
Spectrum Analysis. H. Schellen. (Translated from the third German edition by 

Jane and Caroline Lassell. Edited with notes by Captain Abney, R. E.) Bvo. 

London, 1885. 
Ueber den Beleuchtnngswerth der Lampglocken. H. L. Cohn. Bvo. pp. viii, 74. 

Wiesbaden, 1885. (Bergmann.) 
Vorlesungen iiber theoretische Optik, gehalten an der Universitat Konigsberg. F. 

Neumann. Herausgegeben von E. Dorn. Bvo. pp. viii, 310. Leipzig, 18B5. 

(Teubner.) 
La grammaire de la couleur. E. Gnichard. 3 vols. Bvo. Paris, 1B85. 
Traits de la lumifere. Huyghens, Edited by W. Burchhardt. Bvo. pp. iv, 134. 

Lipsiae, 1885. (Gressner & Schramm.) 
Theoretische Optik gegriindet auf das Bessel- Sellmeier'sche Princip. E. Ketteler. 

Bvo. pp. xiv, 652. Braunschweig, 18H5. (Vieweg.) 
A Manual of Telegraphy. W. Williams. Bvo. pp. xxii, 327. London, 1885. (Long- 
mans.) 



nP>4 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Les accumulateurs dlectriques et la in6canique de l'61ectroly8e. A. Bandsept. 8vo. 

Paris, 1884. 
Le t616plione, son histoire, sa description, ses usages. L. Figuier. 12mo. Paris, 

1884. 
Die Mehrfach-Telegraphie aiif einem Drahte. Mit besondeier Beriicksichtigung auf 

den Stand der Gegenwart. A. E. Granfeld. 8vo, pp. xiv, 258. Wien, 1884. 
Transmission 61ectrique du travail m^cauique. Determination des 616ment8 de la 

transmission. A. Hilliaret. 8vo. i*P- 77. Paris, 1884. 
Die Abliiiugigkeit des von einer Influenzmascliine erster Art gelieferten Stromes voii 

der Feuchtigkeit. R. Kruger. 8vo. Gottingen, 1884. 
Syst^me de t616grapMe et de telephone simultan^es, par les niemes fils, of F. v. Rys- 

selberghe. CTi. Mourlon. 8vo. pp. 3.5. Bruxelles, 1884. 
Die Motoren der elektrischen Maschinen mit Bezug anf Theorie, Construction und 

Betrieb. Th. Schwartze. 8vo. Wien, 1884. 
Electrolyse, renseignements pratiques sur le nickelage, le cuivrage, la dorure, I'argen- 

ture, I'affinage des m6taux et le traitement des minerals an moyen de r61ectricit6. 

H. Fontaine. 8vo. pp. xvi, 296. Paris, 1884. (Baudry.) 
Traits pratique d'61ectricit6 industrielle. E. Cadiat et L. Dubost. 8vo. pp. iv, 

196. Paris, 1884. (Baudry.) 
Lampes electriques universelles Trouv^. C. Chassevent. 8vo. pp. 16. Paris, 1884. 

( Baudry. ) 
Manual de telefonia. Galante y Villaranda. 8vo. pp. 224. Madrid, 1884. 
Les accumulateurs dlectriques ^tudi^s an point de vue industriel. fimile Reynier. 

8vo. Paris, 1885. (Micbelet.) 
La lumiere 61ectrique dans les appartements. G. Fouruier. 16mo. pp. 36. Paris, 

1884. (Tignol.) 
Magneto and dynamo -electric machines, witb a description of electric accumulators; 

from the German of Glaser de Cew. F. Krohn. Edited by Paget Higgs. 8vo. 

pp. 302. London, 1885. 
Les tei^graphes. I. T^l^graphieoptique. T^l^graphie acoustique. Tdl6graphie pneu- 

matique. Poste aux pigeons. A. L. Ternant. 12mo. Paris, 1885. 
Die Electricitiit im Dienste der Menschheit. A. v. Urbanifczky. 8vo. Wien, 1884. 
Nouveaux procdd^s de regulation des galvanom^tres. L. de Gerando. 8vo. pp. 23. 

Paris, 1885. (Baudry.) 
La physique moderne. L'eiectricit6 dans la maisou. E. Hospitaller. 8vo. pp. viii, 

311. Paris, 1885. (Masson.) 
Le misure assolute meccauiche elettrostatiche ed elettromagnetiche, con applicazioni 

a varii problemi. A. Serpieri. 8vo. pp. x, 90. Milano, 1884. (Hoepli.) 
L'ann6e eiectrique, ou Expos6 annuel des travaux scientifiques, des inventions et des 

principales applications de l'61ectricit6 h I'industrie et aux arts. P. Delahaye. 

Ann^e, I. 12mo. Paris, 1885. 
Th6orie du potentiel et ses applications a l'61ectrostatique et au magn^tisme. Partie I. 

Th^orie au potentiel. E. Mathieu. 4to. pp. 179. Paris, 1885. 
Practical guide for comi^ensation of compasses without bearings. Lieut. Collet. 

Translated by W. Bottomley. With preface by Sir William Thomson. 8vo. 

pp.72. London, 1885. 
Den danske elektriske lysmaskine og buelampe. V. Edsberg. 8vo. pp. 104. Kjoben- 

havn, 1884. (Gyldendal.) 
Applications industrielles de I'^lectricite. H. Ponthi^re. 8vo. pp. 205. Paris, 1885. 

(Gauthier-Villars.) 
La Navigazione elettrica. S. Raineri. 16mo. pp. viii, 158. Roma, 1884. (Loescher.) 
Ueber elektrische Beleuchtung. F. Lux. 8vo. Mainz, 1885. 
Recherches th(Soriques et pratiques sur les accumulateurs Electriques. R. Tamine. 

8vo. pp. vi, 333. Mons, 1885. (Manceaux.) 



I: 



PHYSICS. * ri?)5 

Recherches exp6riraentales 8ur la resistance electrique des substances isolantes. G. 

Foussereaii. 4to. ])p. 119. Paris, 1885. (Ganthicr-Villars.) 
The magnetism of steel and iron ships. T.A.Lyons. 8vo. i>p. 12:?. Washington, 

1884. (Navy Department.) 
TraittS pratique d'61ectricit6 appliqu6e a Sexploitation deschemins de fer. G. Dnniont. 

l-Jiiio. pp.372. Paris, 188.5. (Bosnard.) 
Sur I'origine de I'electricite atmosph<5rique, du tonnerre et de I'aurore bor6ale. E. 

Edluud. 8vo. Stockholm, 1885. (Nilsson.) 
Das Gluhlicht, sein WesenundseinErfordnisse. E.deFodor. 8vo. i)p. 260. Wien, 

1885. 
Les lampes ^lectriques et leurs accessoires. P. Urbanitzky. l5dition fran^aise par 

G. Fouruier. 12mo. Paris, 1885. 
Magnetic, and electrical laws. E.H.Harding. 18mo. pp.32. London, 1885. (Col- 
lins.) 
Domestic electricity for amateurs. E. Hospitalier. Translated from the French by 

C.J.Wharton. 8vo. pp.230. London, 1885. (Spon.) 
Easy lessons in Electiicity. T. Kirwan. 8vo. pp.102. Boston, 1885. 
On the seat of the Electromotive forces in the Voltaic cell. O. J. Lodge. 8vo. pi>. 

96. London, 1885, (Taylor.) 
Le^'ous 616mentaires de tei^graphie eiectrique. L. Michaut et M. Gillet. ]8nu>. i)p. 

vii,206. Paris, 1885. (Gauthier-Villars. ) 
Ursprungder Gewitter-Electricitiitund der gewohnlichen Electricitiitder Atmosphiire. 

L. Sohncker. 8vo. ])p. v, 74. Jena, 1885. 
Wrinkles in electric lighting. V. Stephen. 8vo. pp.46. London, 1885. (Spon.) 
Mathematical theory of electricity and magnetism. H. W. Watson and S. H. Bnr- 

bury. Vol.1. Electrostatics. 8vo. pp.274. Loudon, 1885. (Froude.) 
The electrical and magnetic properties of the iron carburets. C. Barns and V. Strou- 

hal. 8vo. pp. 23b. Washington, 1885. (Bulletin No. 14 of the U. S. Geological 

Survey. ) 
Construction des ^talons prototypes de resistance 61ectrique du ministere des postes et 

des teiegraphes. J. R. Benoit. 4to. pp.80. Paris, 1885. (Gauthier-Villars.) 
Instruction a I'^tude de l'61ectricite statique. E. Bichat et R. Blondlot. 8vo. \)\). 

X, 141. Paris, 1885. (Gauthier-Villars.) 
Lehrbuch der Electricitiit und des Magnetismus. E. Mascart & J. Joubert. Autori- 

sirte deutsche Uebersetzung von Dr. L. Levy. Band i. 8vo. pp. xx, 592. Ber- 
lin, 1885. (Springer.) 
Teiephonie et t6iegra])hie simultan6es. F. Van Rysselberghe. Prec6d6 de notions 

pr61iniinaires sur I'indnction 61ectrique, le telephone et lo microphone, par E. 

Buels. 12ujo. pp. xii,226. Bruxelles, 1885. (Hayez.) 
Handbuch der Electrotechnik. E. Kittler. Band i, Half te 1. 8vo. pp.296. Stutt- 
gart, 1885. (Enke.) 
Kleines Handworterbuch enthaltend das wichtigste aus der Lehre der Electricitiit. 

W, Biscan. 16mo. pp.96. Wien, 1884. (Hartlebeu.) 
Ein empfindliches Galvanometer mit messbarem Reductiousfactor. R. W. Wilson. 

12mo. pp. 12. Leipzig, 1885. 

NECROLOGY OF PHYSICISTS, 1885. 

SiLLiMA^, Bkxjamln, Professor of Chemistry in Yale College. Author of a text- 
l)ook on Physics. Died at New Haven, Conn., January 13, 1885, aged 68 years. 

ROSETTI, Francisco, Professor of Physics in the University of Padua. Well known 
for his researches on electro-statics and the temperature of the electric arc. Died in 
Padua, April 20, 1885, at the age of 52 years. 

Jenkin, Flekming, Professor of Engineering in the University of Edinburgh. Dis- 
tinguished as an electrician, especially in connection with the Atlantic cable. IliH 



636 



SCIENTIFIC- RECORD FOR 1885. 



last work was the system of elcctriciil fianaport cnlled tel<^plitraj^c. Died in Edin- 
burgh, .June 12, 18b5, .at the a'^e of iVi. 

Tresca, Henri, Professor of Industrial Mechanics and afterward Directoi- of the 
Conservatoire des Arts ct Mdtiers, Paris. Elected a member of the French Academy 
in 1872. Eminent for his researches on the Flow of Metals and other mechanical sub- 
jects. Died in Paris, June 21, 1885, aged 71 years. 

Ekxund. a. W., Professor of Physics at the University of Lund, Sweden. Died at 
Lund, July, 1835, at the age of 90 years. 

Maxgln, Colonel, of the French army. Inventor of the electric light projector 
known by his name. Died in Paris, of apoplexy, in November, 1885, aged 45 years. 

Carpenter, William B., the eminent physiologist. Noted in physics for his work 
on the microscope. Died in London, November 10, 1H85, aged 73 years. 

Andrews, Thomas, Professor of Chemistry in Queen's College, Belfast, until 1819." 
Well known for his researches on the Continuity of the Gaseous and Liquid states. 
Died in Belfast, November 2G, 1885, aged 72 years. 



J 



CHEMISTRY. 



By H. Carkington Boi/ion, Pb. D., 

Professor of Clie'inislry, Trinity College, Hartford. 



GENERAL AND PHYSICAL. 

Present Aspects of the Theory of Chemical Action. — lu his presidential 
address to the chemical sectiou of the British Association for the Ad- 
vaucemeiit of Science, at the Aberdeen nieetinj^-, Prof. Henry E. Arm- 
strong- considered, amonjj^ other things, the present aspects of the theory 
of chemical action. He said : Chemical action may be defined as being 
any action of wliich the conseqnence is an alteration in molecular con- 
stitution or composition; the action may concern molecules which are 
of only one kind — cases of mere decomposition, of isomeric change, and 
of polymerization; or it may take place between dissimilar molecules 
— cases of combination and of interchange. Hitherto it a])pears to 
have been commonly assumed and almost universally taught by chemists 
that action takes place directly between A and B, producing AB, or 
between AB and CD, producing AC and BD, for example. This, at all 
events, is the impression which the average student gains. Our text 
books do not, in fact, as a rule deign to notice observations of such 
fundamental importance as those of De La Eive on the behavior of 
nearly pure zinc with dilute sulphuric acid, or the later ones of Faraday 
{Ex2J. Researches, Series vii, 1834, 803 et seq.) on the insolubility of 
amalgamated zinc in this acid. Belief in the equation Zn4-H2S04=^ 
H2+ZnS04, hence, becomes a part of the chemist's creed, and it is 
generally interpreted to mean that zinc will dissolve in suli)huric acid 
forming zinc sulphate, not, as should be the case, that when zinc dis- 
solves in sulphuric acid it produces zinc sulphate, &c. 

In studying the chemistry of carbon compounds we become ac- 
quainted witli alarge number of instances in which a more or less minute 
quantity of a substance is capable of inducing change in the body or 
bodies with which it is associated without apparently itself being altered. 
The polymerization of a number of cyanogen compounds and of alde- 
hydes, the ''condensation" of ketonic compounds and the hydrolysis of 
carbohydrates are cases in point, l)ut so little has been done to ascertain 

637 



(j;38 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1885. 

the nature of the influence of the contact-substance, or catalyst, as 1 
Avould term it, the main object in view being the study of the product 
of the reaction, that the importance of the catalyst is uot duly ai)pre- 
ciated. Recent discoveries, however— more particularlv Mr. H. B. 
Dixon's invaluable investigation on conditions of chemical chanj;^ in 
gases, and the experiments of Mr. Cowper with chlorine and various 
metals, and of Mr. Baker on the combustion of carbon and phosphorus- 
must have given a rude shock, from which it can never recover, to the 
belief in the assumed simplicity of chemical change. The inference 
which I think may be fairly drawn from Mr. Baker's observations — 
th'dt pure carbon and phosphorus are incombustible in pure oxygen — is 
indeed startling, and his experiments must do much to favor that " more 
minute study of the simpler chemical phenomena" so pertinently ad- 
vocated by Lord Eayleigh. (See Presidential Address to the B. A. A. 
S., at the meeting of 1884.) 

But if it be a logical conclusion from the cases now known to us, that 
chemical action is not possible between any two substances other than 
elementary atoms, and that the presence of a third is necessary, what 
is the function of the third body, the catalyst, and what must be its 
character with reference to one or both of the two primary agents? In 
the discussion which took place at the chemical society after the read- 
ing of Mr. Baker's paper, I ventured to define chemical action as re- 
versed electrolysis, stating that in any case in which chemical action was 
to take place, it was essential that the system operated upon should 
contain a material of the nature of an electrolyte {Chem. Soc. Proc, 1885, 
p. 40). In short, I believe that the conditions which obtain in any vol- 
taic element are those which must be fulfilled in every case of chemical 
action. There is nothing new in this; in fact it was stated by Faraday 
in 1848 {Exp. Researches, series vii, § 858 and § 859) ; and had due heed 
been given to Faraday's teaching, we should scarcely now be so ignorant 
of the conditions of chemical change. {Chem. News, lit, 135.) 

Suggestions as to the Cause of the Periodic Law and the Nature of the 
Chemical Elements. (By Prof. Thomas Carnelley.) — The truth of the pe- 
riodic law of the chemical elements is now generally allowed by most 
chemists. ISevertheless, but little has been done towards attaining a 
reasonable explanation of the law. This prompts the author to offer a 
few suggestions on this subject. Even long before the discovery of the 
periodic law many chemists had i)ointed out certain numerical relation- 
shiiw existing between the atomic weights of bodies belonging to a given 
group, and had, hence, supposed that the elements belonging to the sev- 
eral natural groups were not primary, but were made up of two or more 
simpler elements. These conclusions, however, were more or less frag- 
mentary and referred only to particular groups of elements. In the 
light of the periodi(; law the author has made a general extension of tlie 
fragmentary conclusions of Dumas, and has biought that law into jux- 



CHEMISTRY. 6*39 

tapositioii with an exteuded oeueializatioii of the analogy of the ele- 
ments with the hydrocarbon radicals. A careful consideration of the 
relations between certain physical properties and the atomic weights of 
the elements leads almost irresistibly to the conclusion that the ele- 
ments are analogous to the hydrocarbon radicals in both form and func- 
tion. This is a conclusion which if true would further lead us to infer 
that the elements are not elements in the strict sense of the term, but 
are built up of (at least) two primary elements, A (=carbon at. wt. 12) 
and B (aether, at. wt.— 2), which by their combination produce a series 
of compounds (viz, our present elements) analogous to the hydrocarbon 
radicals. If this theory be true the i)eriodic law follows as a matter of 
course, and we should therefore be able to represent the elements by 
some such general formula as An B 2n-\-{2—op), analogous to that for the 
hydrocarbon radicals C„H2„+(2_x) in which w=the series and x the groui> 
to which the element or hydrocarbon radical belongs. Assuming the 
truth of the theory here advanced, it is interesting to observe that 
whereas the hydrocarbons are compounds of hydrogen and carbon, the 
chemical elements would be comi^osed of carbon with aether, the two 
sets of bodies being generated in an exactly analogous manner from 
their respective elements. There would, hence, be three primitive ele- 
ments, viz, carbon, hydrogen, and aether. Finally, this theory would rcv 
move the chief objections which have been urged against the periodic 
law, whilst the existence of elements of identical atomic weights and 
isomeric with one another would be possible. May not Ni and Co, Ku 
and Eh, Os and Ir, and some of the rare earth metals be isomers in this 
sensed (Report B. A. A. S. in JSFature, xxxii, 539.) 

Relations bettceen the Atomic Weights and the Physiological Functions of 
the Elements (by Fausto Sestini). — A study of the following table con- 
taining the elements entering into the formation of the organic matter 
of plants, shows that no element having an atomic weight higher than 5G 
takes a direct part in producing organic bodies : 

Indispensable. Useful. 

Electro-negative \ ^=1^; N=14; 0=16; ) ^^^28; Cl=35-5. 
( P=31; S=32 J 

Electro-positive \ ^=^' ^§'=^^5 K=39; [ ^.^^^'d; Mn=55. 
^ \ Ca=40;Fe=56 ) ' 

Among the remaining elements of the first four groups of the periodic 
system which occur in the ashes of certain j)lauts are Al=27'3 in 
lycopodium and equisetum, Li=7 in tobacco and vines, Fl=19 in 
many higher plants, Cu=63, Zn=65, and Br (also I) in algae. The 
elements following copper up to uranium act like poison upon jdants 
and animals. The soluble compounds of most of the elements having 
higher atomic weights than 56 coagulate albumen, exert a very injurious 
inrluence on animals, and act to a certain extent as antiseptics. [Qazz. 
fihim. itaUana, xv, 107.) 



640 SCIENTIFJC KECOKD FOU 18«5. 

On tin; Unit used In Calculatin<j the Atomic Weights (by Lotbar Meyor 
iiml Karl Seubeit). — The coutroversy arising: immediately alter the pro- 
l)0.sal of Daltoii's atomic theory, as to the unit upou which the numerical 
values of the atomic weight should be based has for half a century 
divided chemists into two schools. While Dalton and, later, Leopokl 
Gmelin, from theoretical and philosophical considerations, chose the 
smallest atomic weight, that of hydrogen, as the measure of all the rest, 
Wollaston and Berzelius chose that of oxygen, jiarily because they did 
not place so high a value on theoretical views, and partly on the purely 
practical ground that many elements can be compared directly with 
oxygen, whereas they can be only indirectly compared with hydrogen. 
When the Dalton unit, the hydrogen atom, gradually obtained the 
upper hand, the old controversy appeared to have been laid aside, and 
consequently it was to be hoped that the recent more exact investiga- 
tions of the laws which govern the numerical values of the atomic 
weights would be directed from the same point of view. This hoi)e, 
however, has unfortunately not been fulfilled, as the old Wollaston- 
Berzelius unit has lately again come into use in a different — and as we 
believe — more dangerous form. 

As is well known, J. S. Stas has from his own observation as well as 
those of others deduced as the most highly probable result that the 
atomic weight of oxygen is not quite sixteen times as great as that of 
hydrogen, but on the contrary is about -j^^ of its value less than 1(5 H. 
That is when H=l, 0=15-96. Many chemists, however, content them- 
selves with numerical values founded on the more simple ratio of 
H: = 1 : 16, regarding the difference of ^^ as of very little practical 
consideration. And the hope that the old controversy over the choice 
of the unit would disappear upon a recalculation of the atomic weights 
has unfortunately not been fulfilled. The desire to do away with the 
unit 0=100 is universal; all chemists prefer referring atomic weights 
to hydrogen, but they do not agree as to the way in which this is to be 
done. Some refer all atomic weights to = 16, when H = 1-0023, and 
others to H=l. In consequence of these different views all the other 
atomic weights fluctuate to the extent of about ^ per cent, of their 
value, a very undesirable state of affairs, leading to confusion and per- 
plexity. The authors maintain that the real cause prompting the 
adoption of 0=16 is a secret fondness for Front's hypothesis. 

The authors admit that the error introduced by making 0=16 is much 
smaller than the unavoidable errors of observation so far as inorj/anic 
compounds are concerned, but they show that in the analysis of organic 
compounds it is quite otherwise. From a table showing the percentages 
of hydrogen and carbon in the paraffins containing 30 and 31 carbon 
atoms and their derived alcohols and acids, it is evident that the vari- 
ations in the calculated percentages of carbon dioxide reach the tenths 
of a per cent., a difference often greater than that obtained from two 
adjax^ent hydrocarbons in a homologous series. 



CHEMISTRY. 



641 



With the aid of a second table, in which calculations are made on 
the two suppositions that 0=16, and 0=15-9G, the authors show that 
according to the former a given analysis would lead to the formula 
C25II52, but according to the latter the formula would be C27H56. Of 
course in such a case no one would determine the formula by analysis 
alone. In conclusion, the authors say : "We are all convinced that the 
relation under consideration (and thereby every other atomic weight re- 
ferred to n=l) is not accurate to the thousandth part of its value. 
Let us accept it without artificial interpretations and wait till the future 
for its further proof and confirmation by experimental methods." {Ber. 
d. chem. Ges., xviii, 1089, and Am. Chem. J., vii, 96.) 

Proufs Rypothesis and the Atomic Weight of Silver (by Lothar Meyer 
and K. Seubert). — The calculation of the atomic weights of many of the 
elements depends, as is well known, upon that of silver, so that the 
sharpest i)ossible determination of this is desirable in order to obtain 
accurate results, without which a discussion of Prout's hyijothesis, as 
far as this is concerned with facts, is unprofitable. For this reason J. 
S. Stas, in his masterly investigations, used the utmost care in determin- 
ing the stoichiometrical relations between silver and oxygen. Dumas, 
in 1878, showed that oxygen was contained in pure silver which had 
been fused with borax and saltpeter. The authors have studied the in- 
fluence which the slight percentage of oxygen may have exerted on 
Stas' silver determinations, and conclude that the latter were not ap- 
preciably influenced by the occluded oxygen. The authors maintain 
that the most accurate determinations of atomic weights of the elements 
all contradict Prout's hypothesis in its characteristic original concep- 
tion; it must therefore be looked upon as having been disproved by 
experiment. {Ber. d. chem. Ges. xviii, 1098, and Jlw. Chem. J.j vii, 104.) 

Re-determinations of Atomic Weights. 



Element. 


Atomic 
weight. 


Authority. 


Reference. 


Cerium 


1411 

13^-3 

12-0 

31-0 

118-07 

65-17 

48-01 

208-16 

9-1 
150-02 
142-3 
140-22 


Crookes 


Chem. News. Lii. 302. 


Lantbanura 


.... do . 


Do. 


Carbon [0—16] 


van der Plaats... 
....do 


Comptes rendus, c, b'i. 
Do. 


Phosphorus [0=16] 


Tui [0—16] 


.... do 


Do. 


Zinc [0—16] 


.... do 


Do. 


Ti tan ium ...... . 


T. E.Thorpe.... 

R. Schneider 

Humpidge 

Clove . .- 


Chem News u 46 


Bismuth 


J. prakt. Chem., xxx. 
Chem News i.i 121 


Glacinum 


Samarium 


Chem. News. Li. 145 


Didymium . 


do 


Chem. News. Lii. 227. 


Cerium [0—16] 


Brauner 


J. Chem. Soc. 1885, 879. 









H. Mis. 15- 



-41 



642 



SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 



Physical Conditions Dependent upon Temperature. — The experiments of 
French and of Eussian chemists in liquefaction of gases, and the ex- 
traordinary temperatures obtained, excite so much interest that we here 
transcribe a somewhat extended table of temperatures with attendant 
phenomena. The table was compiled by Mr. J. J. Coleman, and pre- 
sented by him to the Philosophical Society of Glasgow, March 18, 1885, 
in connection with his paper on the "Liquefaction of 'Gases, and other 
Effects of Extreme Cold." (See Ghem. News, Li, 174.) 



Fahr. 



+698 

311 

285 

266 

212 

98 

95 

89 

50 



Cent. 



+370 

155-4 

141 

130 

100-2 
37 
35-4 
31-9 
101 



Physical conditions dependent on temperature. 



Critical point of water 

Critical point of sulphuric anhydride.. 

Critical point of chlorine 

Critical point of ammonia 

Critical point of sulphuretted hydrogen 

Critical point of acetylene 

Critical point of nitrous oxide 

Critical point of carbon dioxide 

Critical point of ethylene 



Atmosi^heres. 



195-5 

78-9 

83-9 
115 

92 

68 

75 

77 

51 



Fahr, 



+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 



32 
32 
14 
15 

10 
10 
20 
20 



26 
29 
29 
31 



Cent. 






10 

10-51 
23 
23 
29 
29 



32 
33-6 
33-7 
35 



Physical conditions dependent on temperature. 



40 


— 40 


40 


— 40 


40 


— 40 


53 


-»■ 47 


60 


— 51 


60 


— 51 


60 


— 51 


62 


— 52 


6-2 


— 52 


62 


— 52 


80 


— 61-8 


■ 80 


— 62 


80 


— 62 


80 


— 62 


99 


— 73 


103 


— 75 


103 


— 75 


108 


— 78 


■112 


— 80 


■123 


— 86 



Nitrous oxide boils at 32 atmospheres pressure . . 
Carbon dioxide boils at 36 atmospheres pressure. 

Sulphur dioxide boils 

do 

Methyl chloride boils 

Carbon dioxide boils at 19.38 atmospheres pressure 

Sulphur dioxide boils in current dry air 

Carbon dioxide and oxygen, air and nitrogen 
compressed to 300 atmospheres in glass tubes 
and expanded suddenly show liquefaction. 

Alcohol containing .52 per cent, water freezes . . . 

Chlorine boils 

Ammonia boils 

Commercial paraffin oil (sp. gr. 0.810) freezes 

Nitrous oxide boils at 8.71 atmospheres pressure. 

Carbon dioxide boils at 11. atmospheres pressure. 

Ethylene boils at 13.5 atmospheres pressure 

Holland gin and French brandy freeze 

Nitrous oxide boils at 5 atmospheres pressure ... 

Carbon dioxide boils at 6.75 atmosph eres pressure 

Ethylene boils at 9 atmospheres pressure 

American petroleum (sp. gr. .790) freezes 

Extra-strong whisky and rum freeze 

Alcohol containing 40 per cent, water freezes . . . 

Sulphydric acid boils 

Nitrous oxide boils at 3 atmospheres i)ressure ... 

Carbon dioxide boils at 3.75 atmospheres pressure. 

Ethylene boils at 6.5 atmospheres pressure 

Critical point of marsh gas, 56 atmospheres pres- 
sure. 

Liquefied ammonia freezes 

Alcohol containing 20 per cent, water freezes ... 

Carbon dioxide boils 

Solid sulphurous anhydride melts 

Nitrous oxide boils 



Authority. 



Faraday. 

Do. 

Do. 
Bunsen. 
Regnault. 
Faraday. 
Pictet, 
Cailletet. 



Pictet. 

Regmault. 

Bnnsen. 

Coleman. 

Faraday. 

Do. 

Do. 
Coleman. 
Faraday. 

Un. 

Do. 
Coleman. 

Do. 

Do. 
Regnault. 
Faraday. 

Do. 

Do. 
Wroblewski. 



Coleman. 
Faraday and 

Regnault. 
Mitchell, 
Faraday. 



CHEMISTRY. 



643 



Fahr. 



—123 
—128 
—144 
—152 
—152 
—152 
—152 
—152 
—152 
—154 
—166 
—171 
—171 
—175 
—175 
—177 
—180 
—193 
—200 
—202 
—209 
—218 
—219 

—220 
—220 

—220 



—220 



Cent. 



— 86 

— 87- 

— 98 
—102 
—102 
—102 
—102 
—102 
—102 
—103 
—110 
—113 
—113 
—115 
—115 
—116 
—118 
—125 
—129 
—130 
—134 
—139 
—139 -5 

—140 
—140 

—140 



—140 



—231 


—146 


-238 


—150 


—238 


—150 


—242 


—152 


—247 


—155 


—299 


—184 


—312 


—191 -4 


—312 


—191 -2 


—315 


—193 


-317 


—194 


—336 


—205 


—348 


—211 


—351 


—213 


(?) 


(?) 


—355 


—215 


—460 


-273 



Physical conditions dependent on temperature. 



Marsh gas boils at 40 atmospheres pressure 

Liquid nitrous oxide boils 

Marsh gas bolls at 25 atmospheres pressure 

Amyl alcohol, an oily liquid 

Silicou duorido, a white mass 

Arsenetted hydrogen liquid 

Hydrochloric acid boils 

Chlorine in orange crystals 

Ethylene boils 

do 

Solid carbon dioxide and ether in vacuo 

Critical point of oxygen, 50 atmospheres pressure . 

Marsh gas boils at 16 atmospheres pressure , 

Solid carbon dioxide in vacuo, 25""™ pressure 

Hydrochloric acid a solid 

Carbon disulphide a solid , 

Arsenetted hydrogen in white crystals 

Nitrous oxide boils in vacuo 

Ether solidifies 

Absolute alcohol a solid , 

Amyl alcohol a solid 

Ethylene boils in vacuo 

Critical point of carbon monoxide, 35.5 at press- 
ure. 

Critical point of air, pressure 39.0 atmospheres. . 

Calculated teniperature of carbon dioxide snow in 
vacuo. 

Hydrogen compressed to 650 atmospheres and 
pressure released produces momentary liquefac- 
tion and solidification. 

Oxygen compressed to 320 atmospheres and press- 
ure released produces momentary liquefaction. 

Critical point of nitrogen, 35 atmospheres pressure 

Ethylene boils in vacuo 

Carbon dioxide boils at 20 atmospheres pressure. 

Atmospheric air boils at 20 atmospheres pressure. 

Marsh gas boils 

Oxygen boils 

Air boils 

do , 

Carbon monoxide boils 

Nitrogen boils 

Aij- boils in vacuo 

Carbon monoxide solidifies 

Nitrogen boils in vacuo -. 

Hydrogen at 100 to 200 atmospheres liquefies to 
colorless drops (in glass tubes 0.2°'™ diameter 
surrounded by oxygen boiling in vacuo). 

Calculated boiling point of hydrogen 

Absolute zero 



Authority. 



Wroblewski. 
Regnault. 
Wroblewski. 
Olzewski. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do, 

Do. 
Wroblewski. 
Olzewski. 
Faraday. 
Wroblewski. 

Do. 
Dewar. 
Olzewski. 

Do. 
Dewar. 
Olzewski. 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 

Do. 

Pictet. 

Do. 



Do. 

Olzewski. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Wroblewski. 

Do. 
Olzewski. 
Wroblewski. 

Do. 
Olzewski. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Wroblewski and 
Olzewski. 

E. J. Mills. 



Compare note on solid nitrogen under the head " Inorganic." 



Anomalies in the Boiling Points of the Ghloroaceto-nitrils and their 
Derivatives (by Hermann Bauer). — As a rule the replacement of hydro- 
gen by chlorine or by oxygen lowers the volatility of organic compounds 
not inconsiderably, but in certain cases an opposite eft'ect results. Such 
an Abnormal effect is especially noticed in cyanogen compounds, the vola- 
tility of which is usually increased by the introduction into the molecule 
of negative radicals, and this occurs even when the molecular weight is 



644 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

greatly increased. Chlorocyanogen and dicyanogen, for example, are 
more volatile than hydrocyanic acid : 

H— CN boOs at +26o 
Cl-Ci^ boils at +150 
NC-GN boils at -21° 
and cyaiiethyl boils at 96°, higher than cyanacetyl, which boils at 93^ 0. 
The chloronitrils exhibit similar peculiarities. These and similar facts 
prompted the author to examine the influence on the boiling point 
of introducing atomic groups in the place of the chlorine in those bodies 
in which the chlorine itself produces no change or marked change in the 
volatility. To this end the author prepared the four nitrils named 
below; their formula, and boiling points compared with trichloraceto- 
jiitril. are given in the table: 

Kame. Formula. B.P. Differ- 

° euce. 

Trichloracetonitril CCI3-ON 84 

-64 
Dichlormethoxylacetonitril CH3O-CCI2-CN 148 

-13 
Dichlorethoxylacetonitril C2H5O-CCI2-CN 161 

-21 
Dichlorpropoxylacetonitril CaHiO-CClz-ON 182 

-14 
Dichlormonoisobutoxylacetonitril ..C4H9O— CCI2— CN 196 

Whence it appears that the replacement of chlorine by methoxyl 
raises the boiling point 64P, and beyond this the boiling point increases 
with each addition of the carbon group in about the same ratso as in 
homologous compounds of like character. 

In the compounds cited below, an unusual elevation of the boiling 
point occurs when oxymethyl enters. 



Name, 


Formula. 


B.P. 


Name. 


Formula. 

• 


B. P. 


Phosgene 


^0 \ 0CH3 ] 
CHCI3 

NCCl 
NC— CCI3 


+ 8° 

67° 
61 

15.5 

84 


Carbonic methyl- 
ether. 

Orthoformicme- 

thyl ether. 
Cyanomethyl ether. 
Dichlouiethoxylac- 

etouitril. 


CH (OCH3)3 

NCOCH3 
NC— CCI2OCH3 


91° 


Chlorocarb onic- 

methyl ether. 
Chloroform 1 

Cyanchloride 

Trichloracetonitril . 


1020 

43-45 
148 



In some cases the boiling point rises regularly 20<^ for each CH2 in- 
troduced into the compound. 

Name. Formula. B. P. 

O 
Dichlorpropoxylacetonitril CCl2(OC3H7)ON 183 

Monochlordipropoxylacetonitril CUl(OC3n7),CN 200 

Tripropoxylacetonitril C(OC3H7)30N 218 

Dichlorisobutoxylacetonitril CCl2(OC4H8)CN 195 



CHEMISTRY. 645 

In other cases a notable elevation of boiling point ensues when c'hlo- 
rine is replaced by ethoxyl. 

Name. Formula. B. P. 

O 
Phosgene ... CO— CI2 +8 

Chlorocarbonicethyl ether CO— CIO— C2H5 94 

Caibonicdiethyl ether. CO— (OC2H5)2 126 

Chloroform CHCI3 61 

Orthoformicethyl ether CH — (OC2H5)3 146 

Carbontetrachloride CCI4 77 

Orthocarbonicethyl ether C — (OC2H5)4 159 

Trichlorethane CH3CCI3 74- 5 

Urthoaceticethyl ether CH3C — (OC2H5)3 142 

Cyanogen chloride ]S[C— CI 15- 5 

Isocyanicethyl ether NC— OC2H5 GO 

Tricyanogen chloride N3C3CI3 190 

Isocyanuricethyl ether ^^303— (OC2H5)3 276 

Trichloracetonitril NC — CCI3 84 

Dichlorethoxylacetonitril NC — CClzOCzHs 161 

In the following, however, we have an exception to the rule: 

Name. Formula. B. P. 

O 

Monochlordiethoxylacetonitril NC— CCI(OC2H5)2 161 

Triethoxylacetonitril NC — C(OC2H5)3 161 

It is evident that an exchange of chlorine methoxyl in many cases 
produces no change in the boiling point, and in some instances chlorine 
is equivalent to the ethoxyl group. This is true of the bodies prepared 
by the author; when once the atom of chlorine is replaced by ethoxyl 
the exchange of a second atom does not further influence the boiling 
point. {Liehig's Annalen, ccxxix, 163.) 

Badiant Matter Spectroscopy ; Samarium. — Mr. William Crookes has 
continued his remarkable researches in the entirely original field of 
radiant-matter- spectroscopy. The results obtained as respects yttrium 
were noticed in our report for 1883. In a paper read before the Eoyal 
Society Juue 18, 1885, Mr. Crookes details the results of a study of the 
beautiful spectrum characterized by a strong red and a double orange 
baud, and which proves to be peculiar to samarium. 

This double orange band spectrum was first observed by him in 1881, 
and his laborious researches have been uninterruptedly pursued since 
that date; the extreme sensitiveness of the new method of testing acted 
as a drawback rather than a help, except that the persistency of the 
phenomena observed increased confidence in its reliability. To the in- 
experienced eye one part of the "orange baud" substance in ten thou- 
sand gives as good an indication as one part in ten, and by far the 



646 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

greater part of the chemical work undertaken in the hunt for the spec- 
trum-forming element was performed upon material which later knowl- 
edge showed did not contain sufficient to respond to any known chem- 
ical test. Except in few instances, as water analysis and the detection 
of poisons, chemistry takes little account of traces, and when an anal- 
ysis adds up to 99*99 the odd 0-01 per cent, is conveniently put down 
to "inipurities," "loss," or "errors of analysis." When however the 
99*99 per cent, constitutes the impurity and this exiguous error 0-01 is 
the precious material to be extracted, and when, moreover, its chemistry 
is absolutely unknown, the difficulties of the problem become enor- 
mously enhanced. The author was therefore obliged to build ui^ a new 
chemistry, and after six months' work he obtained the earth didymia in 
a state which most chemists would call absolutely pure, for it probably 
contained not more than one part of impurity in 500,000 of didymia. 
But this one part in half a million, i)rofoundly affected the character of 
didymia from a radiant matter-spectroscopic point of view, and the per- 
sistence of this very minute quantity of interfering impurity entailed 
another six months' extra labor to eliminate these final traces, and to 
ascertain the real reaction of didymia pure and simple. The earth form- 
erly called didymia proved to be a mixture of didymia and samaria. 
During the long jirocess of purification the 1,000 grams dwindled away 
bit by bit until less than one-half a gram remained of the pure material. 
Didymia thus purified shows no trace of the orange double baud, which 
is characteristic of samarium, an element discovered in 1879 by Lecoq 
de Boisbaudran. 

The earths ceria, lanthania, didymia, and samaria possess in their 
purest state the following characters: Ceric oxide is almost pure white; 
in strong solution it has no absorption spectrum. The atomic weight 
of the metal was taken and found to be 141"1. Ceria gives no orange 
band spectrum in the radiant-matter tube. Lanthana is snow white, 
and the metal was found to have an atomic weight of 138*3. It gives 
no orange band spectrum when absolutely free from samaria. Samaria 
is white, with the faintest possible tinge of yellow; its absorption spec- 
trum is much more feeble than the spectrum of didymium. Pure 
samaric sulphate by itself gives a very feeble phosphorescent spectrum. 
When however the samaria is mixed with lime before examination in 
the radiant-matter tube, the spectrum is very beautiful, consisting es- 
sentially of three bright bands — red, orange, and green — these being 
nearly equidistant, and the orange being the brightest. With a nar- 
rower slit the orange and green bands are seen to be double, with 
faint wings. 

The spectrum of samaria becomes highly modified by mixing with 
the earth other metallic oxides. Mr. Crookes divides these modified 
spectra into three groups; for particulars of each, with diagrams of 
each type, we refer to the original paper. In a mixture of samaria and 
yttria the former possesses a remarkable power of obliterating the spec- 



CHEMISTRY. 647 

trum of the latter j this holds even in a mixture of 43 parts samaria 
and 57 parts yttria. The delicacy of the spectrum test for samarium 
is extraordinary; a mixture of 1 part of samarium with 1,000,000 parts 
of calcium still exhibits a feeble spectrum of samarium ; in a mixture of 
1 to 2,500.000 parts the spectrum of samarium is nearly imi)ercei)tible. 
A striking feature in the spectra of various mixtures of samaria and 

yttria is a brilliant and sharp orange line -2693. So long as this bright 

line is a component of the spectrum the other bands manifest decidedly 
less intensity, and many of them are suppressed. The profound modi- 
fication in the spectra of samaria and yttria developed by their mixture 
IS undoubtedly without precedent in spectrum analysis. Mr. Crookes 
remarks in conclusion that the many anomalies unearthed in these re- 
searches teach that inferences drawn from spectrum analysis jjer se are 
liable to grave doubt, unless at every step the spectroscopist goes hand 
in hand with the chemist. Spectroscopy may give valuable indications, 
but chemistry must after all be the court of final appeal. {Chem. Ifews^ 
LI, 301.) 

A New Kind of Metallic Spectra; Possible New Elements. — At the 
meeting of the French Academy of Sciences on June 8, 1885, M. Lecoq 
de Boisbaudran requested that a sealed packet which he had deposited 
June 30, 1884, might be opened. The packet was opened by the per- 
manent secretary during the meeting and contained a note of which 
the following is a condensation. When the electric spectrum of a solu- 
tion with a metallic base is produced, it is customary to make the outside 
I)latinum wire (whence the induction spark strikes) positive, the liquid 
consequently forming the negative i)ole. If the direction of the current 
be reversed, the metallic rays, due to the free metal or to one of its com- 
l>ounds, are scarcely visible or quite invisible, at all events so long as 
tbe exterior platinum wire now forming the negative pole is not coated 
with a deposit. In examining the rare earths belonging to the didymium 
and yttrium family, the writer observed with many of the preparations 
the formation of spectrum bauds, nebulous but sometimes tolerably 
brilliant, having their origin in a thin layer of a beautiful green color, 
which was seen to appear at the surface of the liquid (a solution of a 
chloride) when it was rendered positive. The principal bands are six 
in number, situated as follows : A620^, A585f, A573, A543i, A487, A476^; 
some of these are nebulous and broad. That at 543^ is i)robably not 
due to any known element, unless it proves to be due to holmium. That 
at 573 is also probably due to a new element. The latter yet unisolated 
body the author designates provisionally by Zo', and the former by Zy5. 

M. Lecoq de Boisbaudran regards his " reversion spectrum " as pbjs- 
ically analogous to the phosphorescent spectra obtained by Mr. Crookes 
at the positive pole in his high vacuum tubes containing certain com- 
pounds of yttria. [See our Keport for 1883.] 



648 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

To this note in the sealed packet the French chemist added the fol- 
lowing: "I have not yet finished the very long work undertaken in the 
hope of determining the nature of the above-described phosphorescent 
spectrum. This spectrum is now recognized as identical with that as- 
cribed to pure^yttria by Mr. Crookes, and which this savant obtained 
under experimental conditions very different from mine. Nevertheless, 
my latest observations lead to the conclusion that yttria is not the 
cause of the spectrum bands observed. In my fractionations the phos- 
phorescence spectrum regularly gets weaker as I advance towards the 
yttria end. With almost pure yttria the phosphorescence bands show 
themselves faintly or not at all, while they are brilliant with the earths 
which do not give, by the direct spark, the rays of yttrium to an ap- 
preciable extent. The prodigious sensitiveness of Mr. Crookes' reac- 
tion, which detects a millionth part of his purified yttria, makes very 
singular this divergence which I am obliged to point out between the 
conclusions of the eminent English chemist and myself." - - - "I 
should acknowledge here that Mr. Crookes was the first to see the 
phosphorescence spectrum of samarium." {Comptes rendus, C, 1437, 
and Chem. Wews, lit, 4.) 

Quantitative Determination of Lithium by the Spectroscope. — L. Bell has 
found the following method gives good results: A standard solution was 
made from lithium carbonate converted to the chloride, containing 
.0265™sm of Li20 i)er cubic centimeter. Of this 10<=*' were taken, diluted 
till the spectral line was just on the point of vanishing and the vol- 
ume noted. Then the solution to be estimated was diluted to the same 
point and its volume compared with that of the standard, when a sim- 
ple proportion gave the amount of LhO present. A very small loop of 
platinum wire should be used and applied to the same part of the Bun- 
sen flame. The method is applicable to the analysis of lithium miner- 
als, and examples are given. The method is useful also in case of 
thallium and such other elements as give distinct lines in the spectro- 
scope. {A7n. Chem. «/., vii, 35.) 

Action of Light on Iodoform in Solution. — E. Fabini has observed that 
a solution of iodoform in benzine becomes bright red when exposed to di- 
rect sunlight for ten to twenty minutes, whereas in the dark it remains 
colorless. If a solution prepared in the dark is suddenly exposed to 
the rays of the sun it immediately turns to a splendid red color, and 
iodine is precipitated. Further experiments with solutions of iodoform 
in ether and in oils shows it to be very sensitive to light, being thereby 
reduced. (Pharmaceutische Post.) 

On the Action of Light in Chemical Beactions (by D. Amato). — The 
author, in studying the action of light and of heat in chemical re- 
actions, has obtained results of great interest ; he shows that many of 
the decompositions and combinations attributed to the action of light 



CHEMISTKY. 64^ 

exclusively are in reality due to light and heat, or to the latter agent 
only. The decomposition of liquid phos[)hine is generally attributed 
to light, but the author shows that it can be exposed to direct sunlight 
at 10° without a trace of decomposition. Heat alone without light is 
inactive. 

A mixture of chlorine and hydrogen can be exposed with impunity 
to sunlight if cooled to— 12^0.; a temperature of 29® is not able to 
effect combination of the gases without sunlight. Chloride of silver 
requires both heat and light for its decomposition, and Fehling's solu- 
tion is not changed by light alone; if organic dust be excluded the 
solution will keep indefinitely when exposed to full sunlight. [Gazetta 
ehimica italiana, xiv, 57.) 

INORGANIC. 

Manufacture of Oxygen and of Ammonia from the Atmosphere. — The 
well-known process of extracting oxygen from the atmosphere by 
means of baryta has never been a commercial success, because after 
a while the baryta becomes inactive, owing probably to its absorption 
of carbonic acid from the air. At the "Inventions Exhibition," held 
during the summer months in London, the brothers Brin exhibited an 
improvement on the old process which i)romises to be very valuable. 
The air is freed from carbonic acid and water by caustic soda and then 
passed over barium oxide, heated to a temperature not above 600° C.^ 
in iron retorts. The temperature is regulated by a pyrometer, which 
controls also the supply of gas to the furnace. Under these conditions 
the ox,vgen of the air is absorbed by the baryta, barium peroxide being 
formed. The nitrogen which appears to be very pure is collected 
separately for use in the production of ammonia. On heating the 
peroxide of barium to full redness pure oxygen is given off. At this 
stage of the process powerful pumps are set in operation and make a 
partial vacuum in the retorts. The operations are continuous, and so 
long as the baryta is kept anhydrous and free from carbonic acid the 
same quantity will apparently last an indefinite time. The most inter- 
esting and perhaps the most useful part of the invention of the Brin 
Brothers is the production of ammonia by a very direct process. The 
nitrogen obtained as above and moistened by passing through water, 
is passed over a mixture of baryta, with charcoal heated to about 300° 
C. Carbonate of ammonia is thus obtained, the water being decora- 
posed under the conditions named, its hydrogen combining with the 
nitrogen and its oxygen with the carbon. The ammonium compound is 
formed in considerable amount. {Nature, xxxii, 354.) 

Solid Nitrogen; Loicest Known Temperatures. — K. Olszewski in a 
previous memoir describes apparatus for obtaining very low tempera- 
tures by means of oxygen and of air evaporating in a vacuum. In a 
subsequent series of experiments the author has further introduced into 



650 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

his apparatus a second tube of very thin glass, and thus isolates the 
liquefied gases by a double gaseous stratum. The pressure and the 
temperature being greatly lowered he has been able to solidify nitro- 
gen, carbon monoxide, formene, and nitrogen dioxide, and to determine 
at the same time the temperatures of solidification. Nitrogen solidifies 
at — 2140 under a pressure of 60 atmospheres ; carbon monoxide at — 
2070 under 100°^™ pressure; formene at — 1850-8 under 80™™ pressure; 
and nitrogen dioxide at — 167° under 138™™ pressure. The latter forms 
a colorless liquid. By reducing the pressure of solid nitrogen down to 
4mm Qf mercury he has succeeded in obtaining the lowest temperature 
known, —225° C. (—373° F.). Comptes rendus,G: 350 and 940. 

Separation of Liquefied Air into Two Distinct Liquids (by S. Wrob- 
lewski). — The laws of the liquefaction of air are not those of the liquefac- 
tion of a simple gas. If at first sight air presents itself in such a man- 
ner that it is permissible to speak of the critical point of air, this de- 
pends merelj' on the slight difference which exists between the curves 
of tension of watery vapor, of oxygen and of nitrogen. The author 
obtained air as two distinct liquids sei)arated by a perfectly visible me- 
niscus, as follows: After having liquefied at —142° a quantity of air in 
the tube of his apparatus, he allows such a quantity of gaseous air to 
enter the tube that the pressure of the gas is equal to 40 atmospheres and 
its optical density equal to that of the liquid. The meniscus of the liquid 
disappears entirely. He then slowly diminishes the pressure, and at 
the moment when the gauge shows a pressure of 37-6 atmospheres a new 
meniscus appears at a point of the tube much higher than that occupied 
by the meniscus that has disappeared. A few moments afterward the 
old meniscus returns to the point where it disappeared, and at this mo- 
ment two liquids are distinctly recognized and remain separate for some 
seconds. The lower liquid contains 21.28 vols, per cent, of oxygen, and 
the upper 17*3 to 18-7 per cent. {Comptes rendus, ci, No. 13.) 

Solutions of Ozone and the Chemical Action of Liquid Oxygen. — At the 
Aberdeen meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of 
Science, Professor Dewar gave a description of the apparatus and 
method employed by him in the liquefaction of such gases as oxygen, 
&c., and after discussing the conditions required for the successful con- 
version into the liquid of the gases formerly called i^ermanent, he gave 
an account of some experiments with liquid oxygen. At —130° liquid 
oxygen loses the active characters possessed by this element in the 
gaseous state; it is without action on phosphorus, sodium, potassium, 
solid sulphuretted hydrogen, and solid hydriodic acid. At very low 
temperatures other substances are similarly without action on each 
other; thus liquid ethylene and solid bromine may be brought in contact 
without any action taking j)lace, whereas gaseous ethylene and liquid 
bromine unite directly at the ordinary temperatures. 



CHEMISTRY. 651 

Hautefeuille aud Chapuis, by subjecting a mixture of carbonic anhy- 
dride and ozone to great pressure, obtained a blue liquid, the color of 
which is 'due to ozone. If ozonized air be passed into carbon disulphide 
at —100° the liquid assumes a blue color, which disappears if the tem- 
perature be allowed to rise, and at a certain point a decomposition, re- 
sulting in the production of sulphur, takes place. The best solvent 
for ozone is a mixture of silicon tetrafluoride aud Eussian petroleum. 
Tliese solutions of ozone are without action on metallic mercury and 
silver. (Nature, xxxii, 540.) 

Combustion in Dried Gases (by H. Brereton Baker). — It will be remem- 
bered that, in 1880, Mr. H. B. Dixon demonstrated tliat carbon mo- 
noxide and oxygen, if perfectly pure and absolutely dry, do not unite 
when subjected to the electric spark, but that the introduction of a lit- 
tle moisture causes an explosion. Led by these experiments, Mr. Baker 
has investigated the question whether moisture is necessary for the com- 
bustion of carbon and of phosphorus in oxygen. The purified mate- 
rials were sealed up in bent hard-glass tubes with oxygen and jjhos- 
phoric anhydride. At intervals of one, two, four, up to sixteen weeks 
the contents of the tubes were heated and the character of the combus- 
tion compared with that of the same elements in moist oxygen. The re- 
sults showed that the burning of carbon is much retarded by drying 
the oxygen to the extent possible with the arrangement adopted by the 
author. {Chem. Xeivs, IjI, 150.) 

On the Function of Water in the Combustion of Carbon Monoxide (by 
Moritz Traube). — As stated in the preceding section, Mr. Dixon proved 
that a mixture of perfectly dry carbon monoxide and oxygen is not ex- 
l)loded by the passage of electric sparks, and that the presence of a 
minute quantity of water suffices to determine the combination of the 
gases. Dixon supposed that the action of the water could be repre- 
sented thus : 

(1) CO-f H20=C02+H2 

(2) 2H2-f 02=2H20. 

Moritz Traube confirms Dixon's experiments and goes further. He 
shows that aflame of carbon monoxide is extinguished when introduced 
into a perfectly dry atmosphere or into dry oxygen. On the other 
hand, he finds that carbon monoxide does not decompose water in com- 
plete absence of air or oyxgeu j and secondly, that when moist carbon 
monoxide and oxygen are exploded together, hydrogen peroxide is an 
invariable product. Consequently, Dixon's equations do not correctly 
represent the action, and Traube suggests the following: 

(1) CO+2H20+02=CO(OH)2-f n^Oa 
. (2) CO-f H202=CO(OH)2 
(3) 2CO(OH)2=2C02+2H20. 

When hydrogen is burned in moist oxygen, hydrogen peroxide always 
forms. Whether a perfectly dry mixture of hydrogen and oxygen 



652 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

could or conld not be exploded by electric sparks cannot be regarded 
as settled ; the author thinks that such a mixture would prove to be 
uou-explosible. He regards the mutual action of hydrogen, oxygen, 
and water as in all respects comparable with that of carbon monoxide, 
oxygen, and water, or with that of zinc, oxygen, and water. The changes 
which occur in the explosion of moist hydrogen and oxygen are thus 
formulated : 

(1) H2+2H20+02=2H20+H202 

(2) H202+H2=2H20 

The second reaction has been experimentally demonstrated by the 
author. {Ber. d. cliem. Ges., xviii, 1890.) 

Indications of the Existence of an Allotropic Modification of Nitrogen 
and Synthesis of Ammonia. — Under this title George Stillingfleet John- 
son has published a pamphlet of theoretical and practical interest. He 
reviews the experiments of Donkin, Bertbelot, D^h^raiu, and Maquenue, 
P. and A. Thenard, and H. St. Clair Deville, showing the production of 
ammonia and of its salts by the action of the silent discharge, or of 
electric sparks upon mixtures of atmospheric nitrogen and oxygen, of 
watery vapor and nitrogen gas, and of hydrogen, nitrogen, and hydro- 
chloric acid. Mr. Johnson then repeats some of his earlier experiments 
on the synthesis of ammonia, and after carefully eliminating sources of 
error obtains results which lead him to infer that the gas evolved from 
hot solutions of ammonium nitrite contains an allotropic or active form 
of nitrogen, which differs from ordinary nitrogen in possessing the prop- 
erty of forming ammonia by direct synthesis with hydrogen in presence 
of heated spongy platinum, and which is converted into ordinary in- 
active nitrogen by the action of heat, precisely as ozone is converted 
into ordinary oxygen by the same agency. 

In experimenting with atmospheric nitrogen the author failed to ob- 
tain ammonia by passing the nitrogen, recently heated and mixed with 
hydrogen through red-hot tubes in the presence of platinum sponge. 
But he did obtain ammonia from atmospheric nitrogen which had not 
been heated. 

One of the most important experiments is thus described : Into an 
ordinary eudiometer tube full of mercury, pure nitrogen gas, obtained 
by any method, is introduced and measured. Next admit three times 
its volume of pure hydrogen gas and introduce into the gaseous mixt- 
ure a fragment of wood charcoal previously ignited in hydrogen gas, 
or better, in a mixture of three volumes of hydrogen with one volume 
of nitrogen gas. Now pass the spark continuously through the wires 
of the eudiometer. About 4 to 6 c. c. of the mixture are combined and 
absorbed by the charcoal per hour, until finally the whole of the gas 
may be made to disappear; after which, if the charcoal be removed, it 
will be found impregnated with ammonia. {Chem. News, lit, 34.) 



CHEMISTRY. 6'53 

Reduction of Carbon Dioxide to Carbon Monoxide by means of Charcoal 
(by Alexander Naumanu and Carl Pistor). — Water-gas, formed by pass- 
ing steam over incandescent cliarcoal, contains, besides hydrogen and 
carbon monoxide, varying quantities of carbon dioxide, wbicli is a hin- 
drance to the economic uses of the water-gas. In the following research 
the authors examined the chemical reactions which take i^lace under va- 
rying temperatures, and with different quantities of charcoal. The tem- 
peratures were determined by inserting in the heated tube (combustion 
tubing 82 centimeters long) substances having well-established melting 
points, such as lead chloride (501°), silver pyrophosphate (585°), silver 
(9540), &c. 

Experiments determine that the lowest temperature at which the re- 
duction of carbon dioxide to monoxide by charcoal begins lies between 
53UO and 585°, say 550<^, provided the gas be passed not too rapidly 
and the charcoal layer be G6 centimeters long. 

With a charcoal layer only 10 centimeters long a much higher temper- 
ature is necessary, between 634° and 703° C. The amount of carbon 
dioxide reduced increases with the rise of temperature. For the table 
giving results of eleven experiments under varying conditions, we refer 
to the original article. {Ber. d. chem. Ges., xviil, 1647.) 

Preparation of Cyanogen in the Wet Way (by G. Jacquemin). — The 
usual process, by the action of a concentrated solution of cupric sul- 
phate on a saturated solution of potassium cyanide is incomplete, only 
half the cyanogen being evolved. In the process of the author all the 
cyanogen of the potassium cyanide is obtained and the gas is pure. 

Two parts of cupric sulphate dissolved in four parts of water are 
placed in a retort or in a flask, on a water-bath, and, by means of a 
stoppered funnel, a concentrated solution of one part of pure potassium 
cyanide is gradually introduced. The reaction begins violently at ordi- 
nary temperatures and when the evolution slackens the temperature of 
the water-bath is elevated to quicken it. Ten grams of chemically pure 
KCN give 850 c. c. of pure cyanogen. Commercial KCN gives the same 
result, but the gas sometimes contains traces of CO2. 

There are two processes for withdrawing the cyanogen of the copper 
cyanide. 1. Decant the liquid remaining in the retort or flask, wash 
by decantation, and add a slight excess of ferric chloride of 30° B., or 
higher. The action commences in the cold and a slight elevation of the 
temperature produces an abundant evolution of cyanogen. The ferric 
chloride passes to the state of ferrous chloride in transferring the cop- 
per cyanide to chloride, which sets free the cyanogen and forms cuprous 
chloride which turns to cupric chloride at the expense of the excess of 
persalt of iron. 2. Add to the washed copper cyanide some manga- 
nese peroxide and acetic acid. Heat slightly. Acetates of copper and 
manganese are formed and cyanogen is evolved. When the operation 



654 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

is ended the evolution tube is replaced by a receirer, sulphuric acid is 
added, and the mixture of the two acetates is distilled to collect the 
acetic acid, which is used again. (0. E. M./rom Comptes rend., c, 1005.) 

On Potassium Ghromocyanide and Hydrochromocyanic Acid (by H. 
Moissan). — Potassium chromocyanide is obtained in several ways : By 
the action of potassium cyanide on chromous acetate ; by calcining a 
mixture of potassium carbonate, dried blood, and finely-pulverized 
chromium ; by the action of potassium cyanide on chromous chloride in 
an apparatus filled with carbon dioxide, and by the action of potassium 
cyanide on chromous carbonate. 

Potassium chromocyanide forms fine crystals of a light yellow color, 
which occur several centimeters in length; it is very soluble in water, 
insoluble in alcohol at 94°, ether and chloroform. Its specific gravity 
equals 1*71. The salt is anhydrous. It is permanent in the air at ordi- 
nary temperatures. In solution it does not give as a rule precipitates 
with acid salts of the metals. With ferrous salts it yields a red precip- 
itate ; with zinc and lead salts, a white precipitate ; with silver, bis- 
muth, and barium salts, a yellow precipitate. Its physiological action 
is similar to that of ferrocyanide of potassium. It has the composition 
KzCrCyg. 

If dilute sulphuric acid be added to a concentrated solution of the 
salt, a white crystalline precipitate forms. This is the hydrochromo- 
cyanic acid, a very unstable body, decomposed in watery solution by 
acids. {Ann. chim. phys. [6J, iv, 136.) 

« ' 

Notes on Nitrogen Trioxide and on Nitric Oxide. — Professor Ramsay, in 
a paper read before the chemical section of the British Association for 
the Advancement of Science, argued against the existence of gaseous 
nitrogen trioxide. He pointed out that the only criterion of the exist- 
ence of this gas is the vapor density; NO2 and NO mix without change 
in volume, and, therefore, no combination takes place. The vapor den- 
sity of the first portion of the gas obtained by distilling liquid N2O3, 
corresponds to that which a mixture of N2O4, NO2, and NO should have. 

At the same place Professor Dewar made remarks on the molecular 
weight of nitric oxide. A comparison of the curve of liquefaction of 
nitric oxide with that of methane shows the i)ressure to increase more 
rapidly with the temperature in the case of nitric oxide than in other 
gases, a fact that appears to indicate that at low temperatures the 
molecule of nitric oxide is of greater complexity and probably exists as 
N2O2. {Nature, xxxii, 538 and 540.) 

Reactions between Nitric Oxide and Oxygen under Varying Conditions 
(by G. Lunge). — The experiments described lead the author to the fol- 
lowing conclusions : 1. In the dry state, nitric acid with an excess of 
oxygen combines to form N2O4 exclusively, or nearly so. 2. Dry nitric 
oxide and oxygen, with an excess of the former, yield a great deal of 



CHEMISTRY. 655 

IfjOs along with N2O4, both in a state of gas. 3. In the presence of 
water nitric oxide with an excess of oxygen is altogether converted 
into HNO3. 4. If nitric oxide and oxygen meet in the presence of con- 
centrated sulphuric acid there is neither N2O4 nor HNO3 formed, even 
with the greatest excess of oxygen, but the reaction is — 

2H2S04+2NO+0=2S02(OH)(ONO)+H80 ; 

that is, nitrosyl sulphate and water. 

This last reaction has an important bearing on the theory of the 
manufacture of sulphuric acid. The author maintains that it is not, as 
generally assumed, the nitric oxide, NO, but the nitrogen trioxide, NaOs, 
which acts as the carrii^r of oxygen in the vitriol-chamber process. {J. 
Chem. Soc, London, July, 1885, p. 465.) 

On the Enaction between Mercurous Nitrate and Nitric Oxide, and heticeen 
Mercurous Nitrate and Nitrites (by Dr. Edward Divers and Tamemasa 
Haga). — It has been known for, perhaps, half a century that mercurous 
nitrate yields metallic mercury when treated with a solution of alkaline 
nitrite, and this reaction has always been regarded as one of oxidation 
of the nitrate by reduction of the mercury salt. The authors show this 
is incorrect. When, with exclusion of air, pure nitric oxide is passed 
into a solution of mercurous nitrate in dilute nitric acid, a precipitation 
of metallic mercury slowly takes place and hydroxyamine is formed in 
quantity, but no ammonia. Prolonged contact of the gas gives rise to 
beautiful long yellow i)risms, while the hydroxyamine disappears from 
the mother liquor. This new yellow salt will be more fully described 
by the authors at a later date. The first stage of the reaction is thus 
formulated by these chemists : 

(HgN03)2-f2¥0=2(NO)N03+2Hg, 

* 

nitric oxide precipitating mercury from its salt. The nitrosyl nitrate, 
here assumed to form, will at once decompose with water and mercurous 
nitrate into hydroxyammonium nitrate and mercuric nitrate, thus : 

4(HgN03)2+8HN03+2(NO)N03=8Hg(N03)2+2(HO^^H3)N03. 

An after reaction between mercuric nitrate and the nitric oxide follows, 
and the hydroxyamine is decomposed. {Chem. News, lii, 8.) 

The Sulphur Compounds of Calcium (by V. H. Veley). — The main points 
in this paper are thus summarized by the author: 

1. By the action of hydrogen sulphide on solid calcium hydroxide 
there is formed a calcium monosulphide, in accordance with the equa- 
tion: 

Ca(On)2+H2S-CaS+2H20. 

2. By the action of hydrogen sulphide on calcium hydroxide in aque- 
ous solution there is formed calcium hydrosulphide, in accordance with 
the equation : 

Ca(OH)24-2H2S+a;Aq=Ca(SH)2+20H2-f.rAq. 



656 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

3. Calcium hydroxy-hydrosulphide, CaSH,OFI, absorbs carbon disul- 
phide, with formation of unstable basic calcium tbiocarbonates, decom- 
posed slowly by hydrogen sulphide and readily by carbonic anhydride. 
{J. Chem. Soc. Lond., July, 1885, p. 478.) 

Decomposition of Didymiuni ; Praseodymium and Neodymiuhi. — Dr. G. 
A. von Welsbach read a paper before the Vienna Academy of Sciences 
on June 18, in which he describes an alleged decooi position of the 
elementary substance known as didymium. This decomposition was 
effected by means of the double ammonium or sodium nitrates in pres- 
ence of lanthanum. In spite of the diti'ereut behavior of the constitu- 
ent bodies many hundred fractional crystallizations were necessary for 
their separation. The two new elements in solution are distinguished 
by intense absorption bands, and share between them the absorption 
bands of the peculiar spectrum hitherto ascribed to didymium. The 
colors of the compounds differ; the salts of that element which ap- 
proaches nearest to lanthanum are of a leek green ; the salts of the 
other element are rose or amethyst red. The latter body forms the 
bulk of didymium. 

Both colors are almost complementary, but the amethyst red is by 
far the more intense, so that a small quantity of the salts of this ele- 
ment causes the green color of the others to disappear. The atomic 
weights of the two new elements are according to preliminary deter- 
minations very different, and vary considerably from the value hereto- 
fore ascribed to didymium. For the first element the author proposes 
the name praseodymium (Pr), and for the second neodymium (Ne). The 
two elements, so far as has been observed, yield each only one series of 
salts derived from the sesquioxide. Praseodymium peroxide evolves 
chlorine on treatment with hydrochloric acid. {Ghemiker Ztg, and Chem. 
Fetics, Lii, 49.) 

Researches on the Complex Inorganic Acids (by Dr. Wolcott Gibbs). — 
.Another and weighty instalment of his laborious researches was pre- 
sented by Dr. Gibbs to the American Acadenjy of Arts and Sciences 
early in June. Among other things, he shows that vanadic pentoxide 
unites with phosphoric or arsenic peutoxides in various proportions to 
form well-defined complex acids. Compounds of vanadic pentoxide, 
vanadic dioxide, and phosphoric or arsenic pentoxide may be formed 
possessing proi)erties analogous to the corresponding compounds of 
tungsten and molybdenum. Compounds exist which contain pyro- 
phosphoric and metaj^hosphoric acids in the place of orthophosiihoric 
acid. Complex acids exist which contain two different modifications of 
phosphoric acid, as, for instance, metaphosphoric and orthophosphoric 
acids or oxides. The salts of a majority of these complex acids crys- 
tallize in well-defined forms. In a summary Dr. Gibbs catalogues the 
formula of not fewer than 72 new salts discovered and analyzed in the 
course of his prolonged investigations. {Proceedings Am. Acad. Arts 
and Sciences, xix, 50.) 



CHEMISTKY. 057 

Sodium Orthovana dates and iJieir Analogues (by Harry Baker). — 
Doubts expressed by MeDclelejeff and by Eammelsberg' as to the strict 
analogies between phosphorus, arsenic, and vanadium prompted the 
author to prepare and examine closely the sodium salts of tril)asic 
orthovanadic acid. Trisodium phosphate and trisodium arsenate crys- 
tallize in hexagonal prisms with 12 molecules of water, and Roscoe de- 
scribes the corresponding vanadate as acicular crystals with 16 mole- 
cules of water. The author finds, however, that a vanadate having 12 
molecules of water (Na3V04.12H20), and crystallizing also in hexa- 
gonal prisms, can be obtained without difficulty. 

Besides the latter, there exist two salts containing 10 molecules of 
water, one of which crystallizes in the isomeric and the other in the 
hexagonal systems. A third salt, crystallizing in rhombic tables, was 
obtained by the author, but owing to the great difficulties experienced 
in separating it from its mother liquid the water estimation was not 
satisfactory ; it probably has the formula NagVO^.SHgO. Phosphates 
and arsenates analogous to the three salts last named are not yet known. 
Sodium- vanadio-sodium-fluoride, 2]S^a3V04.]sraF1.19H20, is also described 
by the author and its contents iu water accurately determined as given. 

In conclusion, the author finds the analogies between vanadium, ar- 
senic, and phosphorus strongly confirmed by the results of his investi- 
gation. [Liebig's Annalen, ccxxix, 286.) 

Recovery of Gold and Silver from Metallic Iron (by Dr. J. C. Booth). — 
In the course of an interesting article on the " Smelting Furnace of 
the U. S. Mint," the author gives his experience as to the best plan 
for recovering metallic gold and silver from the iron grate-bars, tools, 
&c. Formerly the irou was alteruatelv heated and hammered until the 
precious metals scaled ofl". This operation took the labor of one dozen 
men during three or more days of ten hours each, for the gold 
clings with great tenacity to the irou ; nor was the method without 
loss. At present all the iron residues from the furnaces, even includ- 
ing the grate bars, are melted, and while quietly melted the heavier gold 
and silver settle out of the iron. When the mass is cold the precious 
metal is knocked off the bottom by a hammer as a single tough ring, 
with scarcely a trace of iron in it, while the iron above has never 
yielded a trace of gohi or silver to the assayer. {Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, 
VII, 159.) 

An Electrical Furnace for Reducing lief r act ory Ores (bj^ E. A. and A. 
H. Cowles). — These gentlemen, together with Prof. C. P. Mabery, have 
devised an electrical furnace on the incandescent principle. A column 
of fragnu^nts of well-calcined charcoal is embedded horizontally in finely- 
pulverized charcoal and covered by a layer of the same material coarsely 
broken, the whole being arranged iu a box of fire-brick covered with 
H. Mis. 15 42 



658 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

])erforated tile, and opened at the ends to admit two carbon electrodes 
an inch and a half in diameter. Through these is passed the current 
from a dynamo of 30 horse-power. By this arrangement such a temper 
ture is obtained that not only platinumiridiuin may be fused, but the 
most refractory oxides, such as alumina, silica, &c., are reduced to their 
elements with formation of carbon monoxide. 

The ai>paratus is especially used in the manufacture of aluminum 
bronze and of silicium bronze for commercial purposes. 

The application of electricity to smelting is not so novel as commonly 
su])posed. In 18r)3-'54, G. A. Pichon used an electric furnace in which 
ores of iron, mixed with one hundredth of coke or charcoal, is fed be- 
tween the poles of a series (two or more tiers) of large electrodes; fusion 
takes place and the metal and slag iall into a heated receiver below. 
( Practical Mechanics' Journal^ vi, 257). In 1S8l', C. W. Siemens invented 
an electric furnace in which electrodes are arranged vertically one above 
another, the negative passing through the lid of the crucible into the 
metal to be melted, the other through the bottom of the crucible. The 
length of the arc is controlled automatically by the electro-motive force 
between the electrodes. This furnace was, however, for melting iiud 
not for smelting. {Chem. News^ 1882, 163.) 

The furnace of Messrs. Cowles and Mabery yields good results on a 
larger scale than those of others. 

OEGANIC. 

A Plea for the Empiric Naming of Organic Compounds (by Professoi 
Odling). — Verbal translations of the structural formulae assigned to or 
ganic compounds possess certain advantages as names for the several 
compounds. Thus, they are applicable to all organic compounds of 
which the structural formulae are made out; they are the only sort of 
names applicable to complex isomeric compounds; and their use can- 
not be dispensed with wholly in the case of even less complex com- 
pounds. Notwithstanding these advantages structural names consti- 
tute unsuitable names for gener.il use, more especially as applied to 
fundamental hydrocarbons, alcohols, and acids. They are objectionable 
for this use by reason of their length, complexity, and want of ready 
indicativeuess, by the circumstrince of their being based on concep 
tions of chemical constitution of a kind pointed out by experience as 
eminently liable to change, and by the further circumstance of theii' 
representing a one-sided, and so far an untruthful, notion of the bodies 
ilesignated. Structural names expressing other than a distorted view 
of the constitution of all but a few of the most simide of organic bodies 
are imi)racticable by reason of their length and complexity. Hence, to 
avoid the distortion inseparable from the use of any single structural 
name for an organic body the only expedient is the assignment to each 



CHEMISTRY. 



659 



hody, ill |>ioi)oitiou lo its complexity, of an indefinite number of struct- 
ural names — a proceeding almiost tantamount to not assigning it any 
particular name at all. Alrbough from their number and complexity 
organic bodies can only be designated by names which do in some 
measure describe and characterize them, the primary purpose of a 
name is undoubtedly to designate and not to describe. Accordingly, 
with a view to the prompt mental association of object with n;ime, brief 
empiric names based on the origin and properties of bodies are, where- 
ever practicable, to be prelerred to structural names. Isomeric bodies 
may, to a large extent, be distinguished by means of significant letters 
or syllables i)refixed to the name common lo the different isomers. But 
the suggested use of the particular letters <x, (3. ;/, each in a special 
sense, also a general resort to the particles "hydro," "oxi," and "hy- 
droxi," as name components, and more especially the innovation of 
substituting the word "hydroxide" for the long established word ''hy- 
drate," are practices open to grave objection. (Eeportof British Asso 
elation for the Advancement of Science, in Nature, xxxn, .538.) 

Ethyl-uretlimiej a new Hypnotic. — Carbamate of ethyl, or ethyl-ure- 
thaue, CH2.C2H5.NO2, has been found to have the properties of a hv]) 
notic. This compound is prepared by the action of aqueous ammonia 
on ethyl carbonate, or on ethylchloro carbonate, and forms large tran> 
l)arent colorless crystals, which melt below 100° C, and distill ac 180° 
without alteration. It is soluble alcohol, ether, and water, to which it 
(;ouimuuicates a taste suggestive of saltpeter. 

Experiments with ethyl carbamate were first made on animals by 
Schmiedelberg; recently von Jaksch has given the drug to man in 
doses of about 15 grains in over 100 cases. He finds it acts chielly on 
the bram, having no appreciable influence ov^er the peripheral nerves. 
It seems to be, therefore, a pure hypnotic. It causes a quiet and seem- 
ingly normal sleep, leaving no unpleasant secondary eflects. {Deutsche 
Merlicinal Ztg., September 14, 1885.) 

Ethyl Compounds of HypochJorous Acid (by Traugott Sandmeyer). — 
lithyl hypochlorite, CIOO2H5, is easily obtained as follow^s: Chlorine 
gas is passed into a solution of sodium hydroxide (1 part) in water (10 
parts), cooled by ice, until absorption no longer takes place. This fur 
nishes free hypochlorous acid and sodium chloride. 

NaOH+2Cl=NaCl+C10H. 

This is immediately placed in a separa-fcing funnel and mixed with one 
l)art of alcohol ; the li(]uid becomes turbid and an oily layer separates. 
This oil is drawn oft\ washed, and dried in contact with calcium chloride. 
This ethyl hypochlorite ibrms a yellow, mobile, very volatile liquid 
of strong odoi', and attacking the respiratory organs. It burns with a 



660 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

jjreenish flame ; it can be distilled at 36° C. (Bar=752 mm.) without 
decomposition, but if a few drops are overheated in a test-tube it ex- 
plodes violently. The liquid is very sensitive to sunlight, boiling vigor- 
ously a few minutes after exposure, and exploding. This action is not 
accomplished by the heat rays. Even in diffuse light, ethyl hypochlo- 
rite can be preserved only a few hours, eventually decomposing without 
ex])losion. 

It acts very energetically on ammonia, phenol, aniline, and other or- 
ganic bodies. Mixed with bromhydric acid it sets bromine free, and al- 
cohol forms. The body was analyzed indirectly by determining the 
amount of iodine a given weight set free, the iodine being estimated 
volumetrically by sodium hyposulphite. 

The author i^lans further researches on analogous bodies. {Ber. d. d. 
chem. Ges., xviii, 1767.) 

On 1 he Decomposition of the Terpenes hy Heat (by William A. Tilden). — 
The author shows that experiments stated lead to the conclusion that 
the terpenes do not belong to the aromatic series, and are not formed 
on the benzene type. M. Berthelot, commenting on Tilden's paper, re- 
marks he regards it of importance in confirming views which he 
(Berthelot) had announced fifteen years before. {Ann. chim. phys. [d], 
V, 120.) 

On Derivatives of Rexaoxyhenzene and their Relation to Croconic and 
Rhodizonic Acid (by R. Nietzki and Th. Benckiser). — Starting with nitran 
ilic acid, the authors have obtained a series of interesting bodies ; a 
l)artial reduction of nitrauilic acid yielded nitro-amido tetraoxybenzene, 
and a more complete reduction gave diaraidotetraoxybenzene ; the lat 
ter decomposes under certain conditions, forming a body having the 
formula CsHieOu, which by reduction with tin and hydrochloric acid 
yielded the long-sought hexaoxybenzene C6(OH)6. This body proved 
to be identical with the trihydrocarboxylic acid cbtained by Lerch from 
the action of potassium on carbon monoxide. On boiling the substance 
C6Hi60i4, with water, it decomposed, with evolution of carbon dioxide, 
and yielded a solution which, neutralized with potash, gave on concen- 
tration orange yellow acicular crystals of potassium croconate C5K2OS, 
first prepared in 1825 by Gmelin from the black residues of the manu- 
facture of potassium according to the method of Wohler and Brunner. 
From these facts it appears that Liebig, in his researches on the action 
of potassium on carbon monoxide, actually accomplished the direct syn- 
thesis of benzene derivatives from purely inorganic substances in the 
simplest manner. 

This synthesis was successfully repeated by the authors, who on 
tained, besides potassium croconate, the rhodizonate long before discov 
ered by Berzelius, Wohler, and Heller. The latter salt was also ob 
tained direct from dioxydichinoyl-sodium, thus establishing the identity 



CHEMISTRY. HGl 

of ihodizouic acid, carboxylic acid, aud dioxydicbiiioyl. When CO com- 
bines with K it forms C — OK, and six of these groups combine to form — 

I 

C— OK 

/ -^^ 
KO— C C— OK 

li I 
KO— C C— OK 

\ ^ 
C— OK 

Hexaoxybenzene-pofcasaium. 

Partial oxidation of this substance yields — 

C— O 



KO— C 

\ 
C— O 



c— o 

C— OK 



Ehodizonate of potassium or potassium dioxydicliinoyl. 

{Ber. d. chem. Ges., xviii, 499 and 1833.) 

OrganoSilicium Compounds in the Aromatic Series (by A. Polls). — 
Follov<iug the method devised by A. Michaelisin the preparation of the 
aromatic phosphiues, arsines, and stibines, the author has made sev- 
eral siliciuni compounds in the aromatic series. Siliciumtetrai)henyi, 
Si ((.'635)4, is obtained by the action of one molecule of siliciurntetra- 
chloride ou four molecules of chlorbenzeue in the i)resence of sodium 
and of absolute ether. The pnrified product forms a colorless crystal- 
line powder, melting" at 2i\SO, little soluble in ether and in alcohol, 
easily sohible in chloroform and hot benzene. Heated with access of 
air, it burns, giving out flocks of silicic anhydride. 

By similar processes the author obtained i)aia siliciumtetratolyl, 
Si (CeH4Cn3) 4, also melting at 22<SO; siliciumtetrabenzyl, Si (OH2(J6H5)4, 
which melts at 127.5°. Both of these bodies form colorless crystals 
having properties similar to siliciumtetrapheuyl. (Ber. d. d. chem. Ges., 
xviu, luJbO.) 

Silicates of the Phenols (by J. Hertkorn). — Pure crystalline phenol 
(boiling at 182-183°) was gently melted and treated with cliloride of 
siliciura, the former being in excess; the temperature of the mixture 
was gradually raised to 220° to 225°; hydrochloric acid gas was evolved, 
aud ceased after several hours. The simjile liquid thus obtained was 
distilled, aud the fraction, boiling at 420°, yielde<l, on cooling, long col- 
orless prisms. The purified crystals, carefully dried, melted at 47° to 
48°. Analysis showed the body to have the composition (C,;n5)|SiO„ 
tetraphenyl silicate, and was formed as shown in the equation : 
4C6H50H + SiCl4=4HCl-f(C6H5),Si04 



nR2 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Totrii]>lionyl .silicate dissolves easily in absolute alcohol, ether, bcu 
Keiic, toluene, xyl'f'Jie, <;hloroforiii, carbondisulphide, acetic, acid, and 
formic acid without decomposition, but water precipitates a white jielat- 
inous mass, aud phenol dissolves out in the supernatant watery liquid. 
Since, however, the addition of an excess of alcohol or of ether causes 
the whole to go into solution, it is obvious that the precipitate consists 
of an acid phenyl silicate and not of silicic acid itself. With an excess 
of boiling water tetraphenyl silicate is completely decomposed into phe 
nol and silicic acid. 

When tetrapheuylsilicate is heated with absolute alcohol, phenol and 
tetrethyl silicate are formed for the most part, but the latter ester yields 
in the presence of traces of moisture diethylsilicate, and probably hex- 
ethylsilicate. 

In a similar manner, the author piepared silicates of the three iso 
meric kresols; the ortho compound distilled at 435°-4380; tijy meta at 
4430 to 446°, and the para at 442° to 445°. The author likewise oh 
taiued meta and orilio tetraxylenyle silicate, (C8H9)Si04, as well as tiie 
silicates of six similar bodies of the aromatic series. {Ber d. d. cheiii. 
Ges., xvni, 1679.) 

Some Derivatives of Lcevulinic Acid (by Ludwig Wolff). — In distillinji 
laevulinic acid a portion is decomposed and an oily substance obtained. 
This proves to contain two isomeric neutral bodies having tlie formula 
CgHgO,, and behaving like lactones; one is a-angelicalactone, boiling at 
167°, and the other, /5-augeIicalactone, boiling ;it 208O-209o C. The 
former has the constitution — 

CH3— C=CH— CHs 

I I 

O CO 

and the latter is probably — 

CH2=C — CH2 — CHj 

I 
CO 

{Liebig's Annalen, ccxxix, 249.) 



i- 



Action of Phosphorus Pentaohloride on Saliciilic Acid (by liichard 
Anschiitz). — By the action of one equivalent of phosphorus [»eutachlo 
ride on one equivalent of dry salicylic acid the author obtained a color 
less highly retracting liquid, boiling at 108° under 11""" mercury, 
which gave on analysis the couipositiou C7l-l4Cl:iPO:i. This orthochlo- 
rocarbonylphenyl-orthophosphoricdichloriile has the constitution — 

P„ U1)C0C1 

^fi"*^ (2)oroc], 
and proves to be identical with the "trichlorophosphate de salicyle," 
previously described by Couper. The specilic gravity of this body is 
1.554. Mixed with a small quantity of water this chloride dissolves 
with a rise of temperature, and from this solution pure salicylic acid 
crystallizes on cooling. Treated with a large quantity of water salicylic 



CHEMISTRY. 'iO 



Q 



L 



HvAd is not set free at once', but after sev^eral days rorric cliloride gives 
■a reaction. The author proposes to continue his researches. {LicbU/s 
Annalen, coxxviii, 308.) 

The Anilides of Orthophosphoric Acirl (by A. Mi{;baeli« and H. von 
Sodeii). — By the action of oxychloride of phos[)liorn8 on aniline, ortho- 
phosphoric amlide,"PO(NITC6H5) 3, is obtained in small crystals, solu- 
ble in boiling alcohol and melting- at 208°C. On treating- this with 
bromine it yields orthophosphorichexabromauilide, rO(NHC6H3Br2):,, 
also a (uystallized body melting at -!o2o to 23;P(J. 

Dianilidoortliophosphoric acid, PO. OH(NHCfiU.^)2, is obtained by 
treating- the corresponding chloride with soda lye; it forms a white 
powder insoluble in cold water, and decomposed by hot water into ani- 
line and i)hosphoric acid. This decomposition is more quickly effected 
by acids. The acid melts at 196° to 197°, becoming brown. Its silver 
salt forms a white precipitate, soluble in nitric acid and in ammonia. 
{Liebigh Annalen, ccxxix, 334.) 

Chemical Constitittion of Isatin (by H. Kolbe). — Isatin oxidized by 
chromic acid yields isatoic acid. This, heated with water, yields car- 
bon dioxide and orthoamidobenzoic acid. With hydrochloric acid the 
chloride is formed. Sulphuric and nitric acids act similarly. Dis- 
solved in alcohol and acted upon by hydrochloric-acid gas, ethyl ortho- 
amidobenzoic hydrochloride is formed, which is decomposed by water. 
Isatoic aciu with bases in the cold evolved carbon dioxide, so salts could 
not be formed. Ammonia solution gives ammonium carbonate and 
orthoamidobenzamide. Anilin acts similarly. Concentrated nitric acid 
gives nitroisatoic acid, which is more stable than nitric acid. This 
heated with hydrochloric acid or water gives a strong acid resembling 
metanitroorthoamidobenzoic. Eeduction of the nitro-acid with tin and 
hydrochloric acid gives the hydrochloride of a-diamido-benzoic acid. 
Sulphuric acid gives the sulphate. Treatment of isatoic acid with ni- 
trous acid gives a-nitrosalicylic acid. The author concludes that the 
formula C4H4XCO— COH gives the best explanation of the above facts. 
(F. P. v., fn.m Journal f pralt. Chem., xxx, 467.) 

The Constitution of Thiophene (by L. Gattermaun, A. Kaiser, and 
Victor Meyer). — In 1883 Victor Meyer j)! oposed the following constitu- 
tional formula for thio])hene: 

H H 
C C 

^ X 

HC CH 

s 

In the present article the authors refute some objections urged 
against this formula and present new reasons for maintaining it. {Be^\ 
d. chem. Ges., xviii, 3005). 



i()4 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

On the Synthetical Formation of Closed Garhon- chains. Part, I — Deriva- 
tives of Trimethylene (by W. H. PerkinvS, jr.). — Organic chemistry is. 
gouerally divided into two distinct sections, namely, the fatty series and 
the aromatic series. The members of the first series are derivatives of 
methane, the simplest hydrocarbon, and are characterized by their open 
or chain form, as, for example, in the case of normal hexane : 

CHs 



H, 

I 
CH2 

I 
CH3 



Aromatic compounds are, on the contraiy, derivatives of a much more 
complicated basis, namely, of benzene, Celle, which, as was first shown 
by Kekuld in 1865, has the constitution : 

H 

C 

/ ^ 

HC CH 

II i 

HC CH 

\ ^ 
C 
H 

that is, contains a ring consisting of 6 carbon-atoms joined in such a 
way as to form a regular hexagon. 

These two series differ in the most marked way from one another, the 
members of the aromatic series being particularly characterized by their 
extreme stability. 

In considering the differences between these two series, the author 
says it is a matter of surprise that no intermediate series should be 
known, the members of which should possess partly the character of 
fatty and partly that of aromatic compounds. It is quite reasonable to 
suppose that rings should exist having 3, 4, 5, 7 carbon-atoms as well as 
is carbon-atoms, though the few experiments made to test this supposi- 
tion have up to this time failed to throw much light upon the subject. 
Victor Meyer has discussed the improbability of the existence of a 

3 carbon-atom ring : 

H, 

C 

/\ 

• H2C — CH2 

which would be isomeric with propylene, OH3.CH.OH2 ; but Eeboul, by 
acting on trimethylene bromide with sodium, obtained a gas which he 
supposed to be ordinary propylene, and Freund has indicated certain 
reactions of this gas which the author (Perkins) shows are evidences of 
its being true trimethylene. 



dlEMISTRY. 



DCS 



No attempts appear to have been ninde to synthesize the aiialogons 

4-carbon ring* : 

=C-C--. 

I I 

=c— c= 

though aceiiaphtliene, a body in the aroioatic series, without doubt 
contains such a ring. Fhiorene is a hydrocarbon containing a Scarbon 
ring, and several known bodies of the fatty series are closelj" allied to 
the hypothetical 4 and 5 carbon rings. These are furturan, pyrrholiue, 
succinimide, and parabauic acid. The author adopts the i'oihnving 
scheme of nomenclature for the 3, 4, 5, and 6 carbon rings: 



Methylene. 


Di- 

metbyleue 
(Ethylene). 


Tri- 
methylene. 


Tetra- 
methylene. 


Penta- 
luethylene. 


Hexa- 
uietbyleue. 


= CH2 


CH, 
CH, 


Hj 

C 

A 
HsC— CH2 


• 

HjC — CH2 

1 1 
H2C — CHj 


Ha 
C 

A 
H3C CH2 

1 1 
HiC — CH2 


Hs 
C 

A 

HsC CHa 
HsC CHf 

V 

c 

H, 



He also proposes to distinguish the i)ossible isomers by numbering 
the carbon-atoms in the ring as suggested by Baeyer {Ber. d. cJiem. Oes., 
XVII, 900). The author describes fuU.y the methods of preparation and 
the i>roi)erties of a number of trimethylene derivatives, and promises 
at an early date to do the same for some tetramethylene derivatives. 

The following table contains a list of the trimethylene bodies witli 
their chief characters : 



Formula. 


Name. 


Meltiug 
point. 


Boiiiug 
point 

(720"°'). 


H, 
C 

A 

CH.COOH 

A 
H2C — C H3 

COOH.C.COOH 

A 
H2C— CH2 

CH.COOH 


Trimethylene 


Gas 




Trimethylenecai'boxylic acid .. 

Trimetlivleuedic-arboxylic acid 
(1:1). 

Trimotbvleuedicarboxylic acid 
(1 : 2): 


18-19° 
140-14IO 

137° 


182-184'J 


HjC— CH.COOH 





6f;G 



SCIENTIP^IC RECORD FOR 1885. 



Formula. 


Name. 


Meltiny 

yioiiit. 

184° 


Boilijii; 
point 

(7'20'"n'). 


COOH.C.COOH 

A 
H2C— CH.COOH 


Triinethylenetricarhoxvlic acid 

(1:1:' -2). 




CH.COOH 


Tiiinetlivleiu'tricarl)c)xvlicacirt 
(1:2:':^). 


14o-ir)0O 




A 
COOH. HC— CH.COOH 




COOH.C.COOH 


Trimethylenctetracaiboxvlic 
acid (i : 1 :2:;j). 


1)5-1000 




A 
COOH. HC— CH.COOH 


, 


/-CH, 
CH3.CO.CH 1 


Acetvltvimethvleno 


Liquid .. 


112-113° 


-CH., 






^ CH, 
CeUs-CO.CH i 

'^ CH, 


Benzoyltrimetbylene 


Liquid .. 


239-239.."." 


CH3.C0.C.C00H 

A 
H2C— CH., 


Acetyltrimethylenecarboxylic 
acid. 


Liquid .. 




ce5.co.c.cooH 


Benzoyltrimethvlenecarboxvlic 
aeid(l : 1 ). " 


148-149^ 




A 
H2C— CHi 




CHr,.CO.C.( OOH 

A 
H,C— CH.CH3 


Acetvlmerbyltrimetbvleiiecar- 


Liquid . . 




hoxyli.' acid (1 : -2 : I). 






CH, 
, CsHs-CNOH 1 

^CHs 


Beuzoyltririicl-byleiieoxime 


8&-870 




^COOH 
CHjBr.CHcCH 

COOH 


y-Bromethylmaloiiic acid 


II6-II70 




C6H5.CO.CH2.CH.2.CH2.Br. 
CfiHs.CH, COOH 
CbH5.CH.,^^ ^-COOH 


aj-Biomojjropyl phenyl ketone. 

Dibenzylmalonic acid 

i 


37-39° 




170-172° 







Etherpal salts of many of these bodies were also prepared and studied. 

By lieatiug hydioxylaaiiue aud hydrochloric acid with benzoyltrime- 
thyleiie, in a sealed tube, a complicated reaction sets in, yielding a deep- 
blue solution with an intense brick-red fluorescence. This solution 
proved to contain two distinct bases; that soluble in ether was found 
to have the constitution 0300.^8^202. It is easily soluble in acetone, ani- 
line, and nitrobenzene, more sparingly in alcohol, ether, aud in benzene. 
If the brownish-red alcoholic solution be treated with zinc dust and 
ammonia, it i.s reduced and becomes colorless; on agitating with air it 
is reoxidized. The salts of this base are easily obtained, and form deep- 
blue solutions with a most magnificent brick red fluorescence. The hy- 



CHEMISTRY. GO? 

(Iroclilorido in ;i solid state outwardly resembles indigo in every respect, 
and its solution shows the same absorption spectrum as iudigo. Tlic 
internal constitution of this complicated molecule has not been ascer- 
tained. 

The salts of tvimethylenedicarboxylic acid (1:1) with ammonium, sil- 
ver, copper, barium, and lead, form well-defined crystallized bodies. (J. 
Ghem. iSoc. London, 1885, 80.) 

Syntheses of Derivatives of Urea (by Robert Behrend). — By the a<;tion 
of one molecule of acetic ether on one molecule of urea in alcoholic so- 
lution, the author obtained /J-nramidocrotonic ether in accordance with 

the equation: 

C6H10O3+ CON3H4 = C7Hi^03N,+ H,0. 

This body forms silky needles, melting at 165c> to 166° O, insoluble in 
water, and crystallizing easily from alcohol. With alcoholic soda 
solution the salt CsHTNgOaNa forms with separation of alcohol. This 
sodium salt, treated with acids (even carbonic acid is active), yields the 
body CsHeNgOa, for which the author proposes the name methyluracil, a 
name, however, not intended to indicate constitution. Methyluracil 
crystallizes from hot water in colorless needles; it is soluble in alcohol and 
insoluble in ether. It is decomposed on heating to 270°— 280°, becom 
ing blackened and not melting. It dissolves easily in soda and potassa 
solutions, forming salts identical with those of uramidocrotonic ether. 
Theoretical considerations, which we cannot here detail, lead the author 
to adopt provisionally the following constitutional formula, for methy- 
luracil : 

I 
NH— C 

/ II 

CO OH 

N=C— OH 

Bromine acts on methyluracil in the cold and yields brommethyl- 
uracil CsHsBrNoOa, a body crystallizing in microscopic prisms. Bromine 
converts this into a di-brom-compound. Strong nitric acid converts 
methyluracil into a nitco-compound, C5H3N3O6, which, by loss of car- 
bonic acid, yields CiH3N304 nitro uracil. The latter is reduced by tin 
and hydrochloric acid to, C4H5N3O2, amido uracil ; and this in turn by 
oxidation yields oxy-uracil, C4H4N2O3, an isomer of barbituric acid. 
Amido-uracil unites with cyanic acid, forming hydroxyxanthin, on which 
body the author continues his researches. {LieMgls Annalen roxxix, 1 .) 

Synthesis of Cocaine, the Netc Anwsthetic (by W. Merck). — At the chem- 
ical manufactory of E. Merck, iti Dai mstadt, a quantity of a lye i)roduct 
was obtained in the extraction of cocaine, which was sent for examina- 
tion to W. Merck, in Kiel. It formed a colorless, crystallizable body, 



668 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

bavin J? a slight acid reactiou, ineltiDg at 188-5o to 189°, aud yicldinj;' 
by decomposition benzoic acid and ecgouine. Merck recognised ii as 
benzoyl ec.sronin, or ecognine in which one hydrogen atom is replaced 
by benzoyl, CgHnNOs — C7H5O. By heating this substance with potas- 
sium hydroxide and methyliodide cocaine was obtained: 

Benzoyl-ecgonine. Cocaiue. 

CieHigNO.+ CHsI+KOH = C17H21NO4+H2O + KI. 

The artificial product was found to have all the prop«^rties of the 
natural. 

Almost simultaneously with this result of Merck, the synthesis was 
accomplished by Scraup, who employed a mixture of benzoyl ecgouiue, 
sodium methylate, and methyliodide. Scraup's method yielded, how- 
ever, only about 4 per cent', of the theoretical amount, while Merck 
obtained 80 per cent, of the theoretical yield. Subsequently Merck 
succeeded in transforming ecgouine itself directly into'cocaine by heat- 
ing a mixture of methyliodide, benzoic anhydride, and anhydrous ecgo- 
niue : 

2C9H,5N03+(C,H50)20-f2CH3l = CnH,.NO,HI+C9Hi5N03HI+ 

CHsO.CHa. 

By introducing the radical ethyl a homologue of cocaine was ob- 
tained which the author calls cociithyline. Merck is continuing his 
researches. (Berichte d. cliem. Ges., xviii, 1594, 2264, and 2952.) 

The Fat or Wax obtained from Cinchona — Researches on Baric. — O. 
Hesse obtains from the Cuprea barks cupreol, a compound which in 
all points resembles quebrachol. This body crystallizes from alcohol 
in colorless satiny leaflets, which quickly become dull in dry air. It is 
readily soluble in chloroform, ether, and hot alcohol; less readily in 
])etroleuni ether, aud cold alcohol, and in water, ammonia, and potash- 
lye not at all. It melts at 140°, and at higher temperatures it vola- 
tilizes, unchanged in a current of hydrogen or carbonic acid. The solu- 
tion in chloroform, when shaken with sulphuric acid of 1-70 spirit 
grains, turns a blood red, as do the the chloroform solutions of quebra- 
chol, cholesterin, or phytosterin, Cinchol occurs in all true cinchona 
barks, but not in cuprea bark. From alcohol it crystallizes partly in 
long, almost acicular leaflets, partly in broad leaves, and always with 1 
molecule of water. It loses a part of its water at 20<^ to 25°, and the 
rest at 100°, or in the desiccator. Anhydrous cinchol melts at 139° and 
in other respects has the })roperties of cupreol. The author describes 
the acetyl aud propionyl derivations of cupreol. The china bark 
contains, therefore, three isomeric bodies, having the formula C.20H34U, 
cupreol, cinchol, aud quebrachol ; all three belong to the cholesterins. 
{Litbig's Annalen, ccxxviii, 288.) 

Relation between Antiseptic Power and Chemical Constitution (by Dr. 
J. R. Duggan.) — The author has made some suggestive experiments on 



CHEMI8TRV. 069 

this relation to pave the way for further investigations. The lollowing 
table is a list of the substances whose restraining influence has been 
determined with approximnte accuracy, and of ihe amounts required in 
parts per 10,000 of the solution : 

Oxybenzoie acids, C6H4(COOH)(OH). 

Parts in 10,000. 

Salicylic acid (1:2) . . 4 

Oxybenzoie acid (1:3) 6 

Paraoxy benzoic acid (1:4) .... - 8 

Phenols, C6H5(OH)^. 

Phenol, C6H5(OH) 20 

Pyrocatechin C6H4(OH)2 (1:2) 20 

Kesorcin C6H4(OH)2 (1 : 3) 25 

Hydroqninone C6H4(OH)2 (1:4) . . 30 

Pyrogallol C6H3(OH)3 15 

Alcohols, ECH,(OH). 

Methyl alcohol CH3(OH) :J00 

Ethyl alcohol C2H5(On) 500 

Propyl alcohol C3H,(OH) normal , . liOO 

The germicide power of formic, acetic, and propionic acids was also 
tested and found to be nearly in an inverse ratio to tiieir acidity. For 
the pecaliar order of the alcohols given in the above table the author 
can suggest no explanation. {Am. Chem. Journ., vii, 62.) 

Occurrence of Citric Aeid in Seeds of Legiiminous Plants (by H. Ritt- 
hausen). — The existencaof citric acid, together with malic and oxalic 
acids, in the seed of the yellow lupine (Lvp. luteus) has already been 
shown. The author finds it also in the seed of Vicia sativa (vetch), 
V.faba (hog's bean), various varieties of peas, and in the white garden 
bean [Fhaseolus). The powdered seeds are digested with water acidi- 
tied with hy(lio(;liloric acid, the solution filtered, neutralized with an 
alkaline hydrate, and precipitated with lead acetate. This is suspended 
in water, treated with sulphuretted hydrogen, and the citric acid gotten 
in the usual way from the acid liquid. The white bean contains very 
little citric acid, and peas contain less than the other legumes men- 
tioned. {Jour. f. prakt. Chem., xxix, 357.) 

Percenfaffes of Alcohol in Ciders and of Acetic Acid in Vinegars (by W. 
French Smith). — This investigation was made to determine the maxi- 
mum and minimum percentages of alcohol and acetic acid which genuine 
apple juice would produce.. The expressed juice of selected apples 
was allowed to ferment slowly for two months in a cellar at an average 
temperature of 14P C. The determinations of aUiohol were then made 



670 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

by the ordinary method of distillation and specific gravity. Selet^ted 
"August Sweets" gave 9-40 per cent, alcohol; the same variety of 
average quality gave C05 per cent. ; and imperfectly ripe apples of 
same variety gave 4*80 per cent. '' Greening " apples picked from the 
trees gave 4 per cent, alcohol. The average of eight experiments gave 
5 per cent. /;// weight. Ten months later the acidity and solid residue in 
the samples was determined ; the former varied between 10*1 per cent, 
and 4*40 per cent., and the latter between 2*70 per cent, and 3-64. The 
actual amouuls of acetic acid found are lower than the alcoholic per- 
centages in the original ciders demand, owing to imperfect acetification. 
This investigation shows that a good cider should contain about 5 
per cent, alcohol, and a fair sample ought not to fall below 4 per cent.; 
a good cider vinegar ought to contain from 5-5 of acetic acid to 7 per 
cent. [Journ. Am. Clieni. Soc, Vll, No. 4.) 

NOTES. 

During the year 1884, 281,000 pounds of bromine were produced in 
the United States, 7,000,000 pounds of borax, and 1,800 troy ounces of 
of aluminium. (Albert Williams, Jr. Report on Mineral Resources 
of the United States.) 

During the year 1883 there were manufactured in Germany 148,450 
tons of hydrochloric acid and 115,500 tons of carbonate of soda ; half of 
the latter was made by Solvay's process. During the same year there 
were manufactured in England 940,638 tons of sulphuric acid (calcu- 
lated as H3SO4) ; '129,040 tons of soda ash (calculated as NaaCO^) ; and 
141,868 tons of bleaching powder. Dr. Lu'jge thinks the Leblanc pro- 
cess and ammonia process for manufacturing soda will tlonrish side by 
side, and the latter will not displace the former unless hydrochloric 
acid can be made at the same time. [Ghemische Industrie, vii, 78 and 
213.) • 

Professor Mart. Websky has continued his researches on the supposed 
new element, iduuium, contained in the lead vanadate of Cordoba 
(Argentine Republic), but has been unable to establish the identity of 
the metal as a new species. {Sitzungsb K. Al.ad., Wiss. Berlin, February 
5, 1885, page 95.) 

The rare metal gallium has been prepared by Dr. L. Ehrlich by an in- 
dustrial process. From 80 kilos of zinc blende he obtained 0-9 grams 
gallium. The melting point of I he metal is 30-5° C. The luster of gal- 
lium globules iS greater than that of mercury. {Chemiker-Zeitung.) 

Greville Williams finds that zinc dust occludes hydrogen. A given 
sample of commercial zinc dust contained 39 times its volume of hydro- 
gen. The experimenter thinks the absorlxnl gas was originally derived 
from water and shows the bearing of this on the conclusions arrived at 
in the case of the Lt-narto meteojite. [Journal of Gas Lighting.) 

The decomi)Osition of potassium chlorate by heat has been studied 
anew by Dr. F. L. Teed. He finds that the equation commonly em- 



CHEMISTRY. ^71 

l»loyecl |2KC10:,= KC104-}-KCl + 03] doeis not truly represent the lacts, 
Hiui proposes thefollowing: 10KClO:,=(5KClO4+4KC] + 3O2. Theauthor 
oontirms the stateiiicnit that when Mn02 is heated with the KCIO3 no 
pt'rchh)rate is lornied. The phenomena noted appear to indicate that the 
niok'cular weight of tiiesalt is mucli higher than is required by the for- 
nmla KClOy. {J. Ghem. Soc. Lond.) 

New reasons for considering hquid or solid sulphur trioxide as iSaOs 
rather than SO3 are afforded by the results o( experiments rej^orted by 
Di'. E. Divers and T. Shimidzu upon the reactions of pyrosulphuric acid 
with silver, mercury, and copper. When freed carefully from moisture, 
snlphiu' trioxide is without action on these metals, unless a little sul- 
phuric acid be present. The reaction with silver is as follows : 

(SO,)Sl)4+2Ag=Ag,S04+SOV 

{(Jhem. News.) 

By heating in sealed tubes glucose with strong ammonia and subse- 
quent treatment with solvents C. Tauret obtained two new alkaloids, 
which he calls, respectively, a-glucosine and /S-glucosine. These form 
volatile colorless liquids, with a peculiar strong odor, the first boiling 
at 136° and the second at 160°. In acid solution they are precipitated 
by the usual reagents for alkaloids ; with hydrochloric acid they form 
hydrochlorates. {Ball. hoc. chim., xliv, 102.) 

Professor Carnelley and James Schlerschmaun have investigated the 
influence of strain on chemical action. Working with copper wires free 
and under strain, exposed to the action of ammonium chloride, they 
come to the conclusion that strain exerts no i)erceptible influence upon 
chemical action under the conditions described. {Chem. Neics, lii, 6.) 

The causes of the decrepitations in samples of so-(;alled explosive 
pyrites have been studie<l by B. Blount and formulated as follows : (1) 
The decrepitations are due to the presence of CO2, together with more 
or less H2O. (2) The CO2 is confined at high pressures i)rol)ably suffi- 
cient to liquefy it. (3) The usual temperature at which the pyrites be- 
gins to decrepitate is 30° to 36° 0. {Chem. News, Lii, 7.) 

The removal of micro-organisms from water forms the subject of a 
valuable paper by Dr. Percy F. Fraukland, in the Chemical News, Lii, 
'21, et seq. 

Chlorochromic acid is prepared, according to H. Moissan, by bringing 
together gaseous hydrochloric acid and pure chromic anhydride per- 
fectly free from sulphuric acid. On warming red fumes ai)pear, which 
condense into chlorochromic acid ; but a portion is decomposed by the 
water formed at the same time. Dry chlorine does not attack chromic 
anhydride. Gaseous hydrobromic and hydriodic acid do not form analo- 
gous chromium compounds. ( Bull, cle l^ Assoc, des t^leve^ dc M. Freiny, 2.) 

Cocaine, the established aniesthetic, according to G. Calmels and E. 
Gossin, is " methylicbenzometholethyltetrahydropyridiue carbonate." 
{Comptes rendus, c, No. 17.) See Professor Odling's Plea for Empiric 
Names, in this report, under the head "Organic." 



B72 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Besearches or the influence of silicon upon the properties of cast 
iron, by Thomas Turner, show that, contrary to the .ajenerally accepted 
views on this subject, a suitable addition of silicon to cast iron im- 
proves the tensile streuj;th of the metal. An addition, however, of more 
than 2.5 per cent, causes deterioration. {Chem. Neocs, lii, 5.) 

Eleven months' experience with toughened glass beakers made 
under De La Bastie's patents leads R. J. Friswell to the conclusion that 
" toughened glass is a complete failure in the laboratory." (Chem. News, 
hn, 5,) 

The adulteration of beer is discussed in a paper by Prof. H. B. (Jorn 
wall presented to the American Public Health Association. The aver 
age contents in alcohol of twelve beers was 4.197 per cent., and of ex- 
tract, 6-26 per cent. Milwaukee beer contains as high as 5-35 per cent, 
of alcohol. 

The apparatus and process for liquefying oxygen gas, employed by 
Cailletet, are figured and described in the Journal de physique, and in 
Nature (xxxii, 584), to which we refer for details. 

Chlorine monoxide has been studied anew by K. Garzarolli Thuru- 
lackh and G. Schacherl. It forms a dark brown liquid, having a yel- 
lowish-brown vapor; its density is 3'0072 at 10-6o C. and T^O^'"'", and 
its boiling point is 5° O. at 737-9™™. Exposed to sunlight it does not 
decompose as commonly stated, and if organic material be excluded 
it does not explode in passing from the liquid to the gaseous state. 
[Liehig's Annalen, CCXXX, 273.) 

By distilling plants in a fresh state with water, M. Maquenne has ob- 
tained small quantities of methylic alcohol, but he has not ascertained 
whether this body exists ready fornjed in the plants or is prociuced dur- 
ing the distillation. {Comptes rendus, oi, 1067.) 

Vacciniin, a bitter principle occurring in the cowberry, discovered 
by Edo Claassen in 1870, has been found by the same chemist to be 
identical with arbutin, extracted from Arbutus uva ursi, Liu. — {Am. J. 
Pharm., 1885 ) 

Under the title "The Sugar Chemistry of the United States" Prof. 
Harvey W. Wiley, chief chemist to the Department of Agriculture, 
has issued a valuable compend, in four parts, relating respectively to 
cane, beet, sorghum, and maple sugars. The analyses of maple sugar 
are numerous, and wb learn that " there is no method of detecting the 
adulteration of maple sugar with other sucroses. The temptation to 
this adulteration is great because maple sugar commands nearly double 
the pj'ice of other sugars. Neither chemistry nor optics will help to a 
decision as to adulteration." A patented extract of hickory bark is 
used to give the characteristic flavor of maple sugar to glucose or cane 
sirups. 

The second annual meeting of the Association of Oflicial Agricultu- 
ral Chemists was held September 1 and 2 at Washington, D. C. In 
the absence of Professor Johnson the chair was taken by the vice- 



I 



CHEMISTRY. ()'73 

president, Prof. H. 0. White. The " Proceedings," published by the 
Department of Agriculture as Bulletin No. 7, of the Division of Chem- 
istry, will be found invaluable to all analytical chemists. 

The chemical section of the American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science met in August at Ann Arbor. The chairman of the 
section, Prof. William Ripley Nichols, addressed the members on 
"Chemistry in the Service of Public Health." The address will be 
found in the "Proceedings" of the association, vol. xxxiv. 

The Institute of Chemistry (England) has undergone a ti-ansforma- 
tion. Originally founded in October, 1877, with a membership of 150, 
it grew to embrace over 400 fellows. O-^ the 30th of June, 1885, *it 
(leased to have an official existence, bui meanwhile, on the 13th of 
June, 1885, another organization was perfected under the title "Insti- 
tute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland," and the officers of the 
original society became officers of the new one. The new institute has 
secured a royal charter and has public duties and privileges accorded 
it, becoming a professional body officially known to Government. Dr. 
Odling, the president, gave his address November 6, 1885. (See Chem- 
ical Mews, Lii, 243.) Dr. Odliug's address is severely criticised by an 
anonymous writer in ¥ature (xxxiii, 73), who ptotests strongly against 
the commercial aspect of the views enunciated. He says: "The spirit 
[of the address] is an alien spirit, repugnant to students of pure science 
in this country." 

A biography of the late Dr. Robert Angus Smith was read at the 
annual general meeting of the Manchester Literary and Philosophical 
Society held April 21, by Dr. E. Schunck. It will be found in Chem. 
N^eics, LI, 293. 

Prof. Edward Divers, of the Imperial College of Engineering, Tokio, 
met with a serious accident which threatened tlie loss of an eye. In at- 
tempting to remove the stopper of a bottle containing phosphorus tri- 
chloride he gently warmed the neck, when the bottle exploded violently, 
and projected glass into one eye. Dr. Divers supposes moisture had 
entered the bottle and formed hydrochloric acid, thus producing gas 
under tension. 

On Monday, August 1, 1885, Prof. Michel Eugene Chevreul entered 
upon his one hundredth year. Apart from the fact that among men 
whose lives have been devoted to active scientific research no one has 
before attained so great an age, Chevreul stands conspicuous for the vast 
amount of work he has done, and for the great practical effect his work 
has had on the industries of the world. His researches on "les corps 
gras," begun in 1813, continued until 1823, when they appeared in a 
volume dedicated to Vauquelin, his teacher. His researches on color 
occupy the whole of volume xxxiii of the Memoirs of the Institut. It 
has often been remarked, it is difficult to realize that the Chevreul of 
"corps gras" fame and the Chevreul who wrote on colors are one and 
the same man. (Condensed from Nature, xxxii, 425.) 
H. Mis. 15 43 



674 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CHEMISTRY: 1885. 

Agenda du chimiste, a I'usage des iugeuieurs, pliysiciena, chimistes, fabricants de 
prodnits chimiqnes, etc. Paris, 1885. l:3nio. 

Albkecht, Kakl. — Ueber einige Pyrogallusslinro vmd Phlorogluciuderivate and die 
Beziehungen derselben zu Daplinctiu und Aesculetiu. Berlin, 1884. 

Allen, A. H. — Commercial Organic Analysis. Second edition revised and enlarged. 
Londou, 1885. 8vo. 

Amato, Domenico. — Del carbonic quale base del mondo organico. Prelezione. Ca- 
tania, 1885. 

Anastasi, Aug. — Nicolas Leblanc, sa vie et ses travaux, et I'histoire de la sonde arti- 
acielle. Paris, 1884. 

Angenot, O. — Lemons sur le p^trole et ses d6riv6s. Anvers, 1885. 8vo. 

Annales do chimie. Tables de la 5eme s^rie (1874-83), dress6es par Gayon. Paris, 
1885. 8vo. 

Ajvtkick, Otto. — Ueber einige Verbindungen von Diacetonamin mit Aldehyden. (Er- 
langen). Wiirzbnrg, 1884. 

Arata, Pedro N. — Relaciou de las trabajos practicados por la officina qulmica mu- 
nicipal de la ciudad de Buenos Aires, 1884. Buenos Aires, 1885. 

Arnold, C. — Repetitorium der Chemie. Mit besondercr Beriicksiclitigung der fiir die 
Medizin wichtigen Verbindungen, sowie der PliarniacopoBa germauica, namentlich 
zum Gebraucbe liir Mediziuer und Pbarmazeuten. Hamburg, 1885. 8vo. 

AuwERS, Kael. — Eiu Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Psendocumenols und des Pseudo- 
cumidins. Berlin, 1885. 

Banitz, C— Lebrbucli der Chemie uud Miueralogie in populiirer Darstellung. Theil 
II. Miueralogie. 3. Aufl. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 

Bartley, Elias H. — A Text-book of Medical Chemistry for medical and pharmaceu- 
tical students and practitioners. New York, 1885. P^iuo. 

Bartoli, a. e E. Stracciati. — Le proprieta fisiehe degli idi ocarburi Cn Hsn+i dei 
petroli. Roma, 1885. 4to. 

Bauer, A. — Beitrilge zur Chemie der Ceritmetalle. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo. 

Bauer, R. W. — Ueber den aus Agar- Agar entstehenden Zucker ; ilber eiue neue SiLure 
aus der Arabinose, nebst dem Versuch einer Classihcation der gallertbildenden 
Kohlenhydrate nach den aus ihneu entstehenden Zuckerarteu. Jena, 1885. 8vo. 

Baumann, a.— Tafelu zur Gasometrie. Znm Gobrauche in chemischen und physi- 
kalischen Laboratorien, sowie an hygienischeu Institnten. Miiuchen, 1885. 8vo. 

Baumhauer, H.- Leitfaden der Chemie. Theil I. Anorgauische Chemie. Freiburg, 
1884. 8vo. 

Beck, Paul. — Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Umbelliferons. (Erlangen). Berlin, 1884. 
8vo. 

Behrend, Robert. — Versuche zur Syuthese von Kiirpern der Harnsaurereihe. Leip- 
zig, 1885. 8vo. 

Bkhrmann, A. und a. W. Hofmann. — Unnvandlung der Citroneusaure in Pyridine- 
Verbindungen. Berlin, 1884. bvo. 

Bexoit, E. — Du manganese; 6tude de chimie analytique an point d<! vue de la phai- 
macie et de I'industrie, contenant un proc6d6 de preparation du peroxyde de 
manganfese a I'^tat de pnret6 et une ni^thode nouvelle de dosagi' du manganese 
• h I'^tat m^tallique dans les min^rais. Paris, 18e5. 8vo. 
Bernard, J.— Repetitorium der Chemie. Theil II. Chemie der KohleustoftVerbiu- 
dungen. (Organische Chemie.) Nach dem neuesteu Standpunkte der Wissen- 
schaft bearbeitet von J. Speuurath. Aachen, 1885. 8vo. 
Bernthsex, A. — Studied in der Methylenblaugruppe. Heidelberg, 1885. 8vo. 
Beute, F. — Anleitung zur ersten Ausfiihrung chemischer Arbejten in landwirth- 
schaftlichen Lehranstalten. TTelzen. 18s^). 8vo.. 



I 



CHEMISTRY. H7n 

BiECHKLE, M. — Die chemischen Gleichnngen der wichtigsten anorganischon uud 
organisclien Stoffe. IV^it besonderer Beriicksichtignng der deutschen und oster- 
reichischen Pharmacopoe, sowie der inassanalytisclien . Untersncliuugen der 
Arzneistoffe. Nach den neuesten chemischen Anschaunngen bearbeitet. Eich- 
stiitt, 1885. 8vo. 

Blas, C. — Analyse jiyrognostique par la mdthode de Bunsen, suivi de la determination 
m^thodique des min<Sraux, d'aprfes la division dichotomique de Laurent et suivi 
d'un plan nouveau. Louvaiu, 1885. 12mo. 

Blas, C. — Trait6 616mentaire de chimie analytique. Tome I. Analyse qualitative 
par la voie s^che, ou analyse an chalnmeau. Louvain, 1885. 8vo. 

Bolton, H. Carrington. — A Catalogue of Chemical Periodicals. Annals New York 
Academy Sciences. London, 1885. 8vo. 

Bolton, H. Carrl\GT0N. — The Students' Guide in Quantitative Analysis. Intended 
as an aid to the study of Fresenius' system. [Second edition.] New York, 1885. 
Bvo. 

Bornemann, E. — Ueber die Etard'sche Reaction zur Darstellung aromatischer Alde- 
hyde, und einiger Abkommlinge des Metatoluylaldebydes. Freiburg, 1884. 

Bouant, E. — Aide mdmoire de chimie. Paris, 1885. 12mo. 

BouANT, E. — Cours de chimie. Paris, 1885. 

BouRGOiN, E. — Carbonyles, quinones, aldehydes k fonction mixle. Paris, 1865. 8vo. 

Bowman, J. E. — Introduction to practical Chemistry; including Analysis. Edited 
by C. E. Bowman. Eighth edition. London, 1885. 12!no. 

Bkannt, W. T. — Practical Treatise on the Raw Materials and the Distillation and 
Rectitication of Alcohol; also the preparation of alcoholic liquors, liqueurs, cord- 
ials, and bitters. Edited chiefly l-rom the German of Stammer, Eisner, and Schu 
bert. Philadelphia, 1885. 12mo. 

Breslauer, Dk. — Chemische Untersuchung der Luft fiir hygienische Zwecke. Ber- 
lin, 1885. 8vo. 

Brieger, L.— Weitere Untersuchungen iiber Ptomaine. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 

Brunton, T. Lanter. — A Text-book of Pharmacology, Therapeutics, and Materia 
Medica. Adapted to the United States Pharmacopoeia, by F. A. Williams. 8v<). 
Philadelphia, 1885. 

Campari, G. — Studii sperimentali suUa distillazione secca dei legni resinosi ]mt la 
produzione del catrame, della fabbricazione di olii di resina illuminanti, e sopra 
una nuova lampada per la combustione degli olii di resina molto carburati. 
Parma, 1884. 8vo. 

Carnelley, T. — Physico-chemical Constants. Melting and Boiling-Point Tables. 
Vol. I. London, 1885. roy. 4to. 

Carpenter, W. L. — Treatise on the Manufacture of Soap and Candles, Lubricants 
and Glycerin. London, 1885. Bvo. 

Cech, Karel. — Puv8d chmelafstvi a pivovarstvi. Praha, 1884. 

Chastaing, M. — Chimie des alcaloides naturels. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 

Chemiker (Der) und Drogist. — Haupt-Organ fiir Chemiker, Drogisteu, Uewcrbliei- 
bende, etc. Herausgegeben von H. Kriitzer. Leipzig, 1885-'8G. 4t(). 

Chemisch-technische Mittheilungen der neuesten Zeit. BegiUndet von L. Eisner, Ibrt- 
gesetzt von W. Knapp. \i. Folge. Bd. VI. 1884-'85. Halle, 1885. 8vo. 

Chemisch-technisches Repertorium. Uebersichtlich geoidnete Mittbeilung der neu- 
esten Erfindungen, Fortschritte und Verbesserungen ant dem Gebiete der tech- 
nischeu und industriellen Chemie mit Hinweis aiif Maschincji, Apparun- iind 
Literatur. Herausgegeben von Emil Jacobsen. 1881. Berlin, 1885. Bvo. 

Chittenden, R. H. — Studies from the Laboratory of Physiological Chemistry, Shef- 
field Scientific School of Yale College. For the year 1884-'85. New Haven, 18^5. 
8vo. 

Ciir.iSTENSKN, O. T. — Ueber die Darstellung der den rothen und d«ii geUien Bintlau- 
gensalz analogen Chrom- uuc Manganverbindungen. 1885. 8to. 



G76 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1885. 

CiAMiciAN, G. e M. Dennstedt.— Studi siii composti della serie del pirrolo. Parte 
VIIT. Sull' azione di alcuin aniiidn di organiche sul pirrolo. Roma, 1885. 4to. 

Classen, A. — Handbuch der analytischeu Chemie. '.i. verbesserte und vermehrte 
Auflage. Tlieil I. Qualitative Aualyse. Stuttgart, 1885. 8vo. 

Classen, A. — Quantitative chemische Analyse durch Elektrolyse. Nach eigeuen 
Metlioden. 2. giinzlicli umgearbeirete und vermehrte Auflage. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 

Clowes, V. — Treatise on Practical Chemistry and Qualitative Inorganic Analysis. 
Fourth edition. London, 1885. 8vo. 

COLSON, A. — Recherches sur les substitutions dans les m^thylbenzines. Paris, 1885. 
4to. 55 pp. 

Cooke, J. P. — The New Chemistry. Eighth edition, remodeled and enlarged. Lou- 
don, 1-84. 8vo. 

CouNCLER, C. — Bericht tiber die Verhandlungen der Commission zur Feststelluug 
einer einheitlichen Metbode der Gerbstoft'bestimmnug, gefuhrt am 10. Novem- 
ber 1883 zu Berlin. Redaction und Einleitung iiberdie bisherigen Verfahren der 
quantitative n Bestimmnng des Gerbstoifs. Nebst einer kritischen Originalunter- 
suchung liber die Lowenthal'sche Methode von J. V. Schroder. Cassel, 1885. 8vo. 

CzYRNiANSKi, Emil — Chemisch-pbysische Theorie, aus der Anziehung und Rotation 
der Uratonic abgeieitet. Krakau, 1885. 8vo. 

JajLifSepyr/?, 'Ayadrddioi K. — X.T)fiiK7} dvdXvdti tov ev "AvSp(p la/uaziHov 
vSaro?. 'Ev \4Si^vca?, 188 . 

Dammer, O.— lUustrirtes Lexikon der Verlalschuugen und Verunreinigungen dor 
Nahrungs- und Genusmittel, der Kolonialwaaren, Droguen, gewerblichen Pro- 
dukte, Dokuiuente, etc. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 

Deventer, C. M. VAN. — Schetzen uit de geschiedenis der scheikunde. Dordrecht, 
1884. 8vo. 

Dixon, H. B. — Conditions of chemical change incases: Hydrogen, Carbonic Oxide, 
and Oxygen. London (Royal Society), 1885. 4to. 68 pp. 

Doeumeuts sur les ialsili cations des matiferes alimentaires et sur les travaux du 
laboratoire municipal. Deuxifeme rapport. Paris, 1885. 

DuBREUiL. — La porcelaine. Paris, 188.5. 

Duhand-Clayk, C. L. — Chimie appliqu^e a I'art de Fing^nieijr. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 

Ebert, H. — Zur Constitution des Succinyloberusteiusanreathers. Leipzig. 1885. 8vo. 

Eder, J. M.^Ueber das Verhalteu der Haloulverbiudungen des Silbers gegen das 
Sonnenspectrum und die Steigerung der Emptindlichkeit dcrselben gcgeu ein- 
zelne Theilc des Spectrums durch Farbstofte und andere Substauzen. Wien, 1885. 
8vo. 

Egger, E.— Zweite Rechenschaftsbericht des chemischen Untersuchuugsamts tiir 

' die Provinz Rheinhessen, nebst Beitriige zur einer Hydrologie fiir die Provinz 
Rheinhessen. Mainz, 1885. 8vo. 

Elbers, a. — Ueber einige Verbindungen von Hydraziuen mit Keton- und Aldehyd- 
sauren. Erlangen, 1884. 8vo. 

Elsinghorst, G. — Ueber halogcnsubstituirte Hydrazine. Erlangen, 1884. 8vo. 

Elsner, F.— Die Praxis des Nahrungsmittel-Chemikers. H. Auflage. Hamburg, 1885. 
8vo. 

Encyciopedie chimique ])ubli6 sous la direction de Fremy. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 

1 ome II. M6tallo'ides. Section li. Bore, Siliciuiu, Silicates, par Joly et Curie. 
Tome II. M^talloides. Complement. Partie 1. Charbon de bois; noir de 

fumee; combustibles niiu^ranx, i)ar Urbain et St. Meunier. 
Vol. III. M6tanx. Cahier 1. Propri<5t6s gen6rales des m6taux et des sels. 

Principes de classification, par G. Ronsseau. 
Vol. III. M^taux. Cahiei' (1. Zinc, Cadmium, Thallium, par P. Sabatier. 
Vol. IV. Aualyse chimique Tableaux d'analyse qualitative, par L. Prunier. 
Vol. IV. Analyse chimique. Aualyse des gaz, par J. Ogier. 
Vol. V. Applications de chimie inorganique, la porcelaine, par Dubreuil. 



CHEMISTRY. (\17 

Encyclop6die chimique public sous la direction de Fr^my — Continued. 

Vol. V. Applications de nliiTnie inorganique, Partie 2. M6tallurgie. Cahier 

7. M6tal]urgie de I'aigeut, par C. Roswag. 
Vol. VI. Chimie orgauique. Fasc. 2. Alcools rt phenols, par Prunier. 
Vol. VII. Chimie orgauiquo. Aldehydes. Fasc. 2. Carbonyles, quinones, 

aldehydes h fonction mixte, par E. Bouigoiu. 
Vol. VIII. Chimie organique. Fasc. 6. Alcali organiques. Section 2. Alca- 

loides uaturels, par Chastaing. 
Vol. X. Applications de chimie organique. Chimie agricole. Nntrition de 

la plante, par Deh^rain. 
Vol. X. Applications de chimie organique. Contribution k l'6tudedc la chimie 
agricole, par Th. Schloesing. 
Engel, Walfried. — Ueber die Amidoverbindungen methylirter Benzole und fiber ein 

neues Cumidin. Berlin, 1885. 
Erdmann, H. — Ueber die Umwandlnng der Lactonsauren in Lactone durch Schwefel- 
saure und fiber eine neue Reaction des Isocaprolactons ; ein Beitrag zur Geschi- 
chte der Lactone. HaUe, 1865. Hvo. 
Erlenmeyer, E. — Lehrbuch der organischen Chemie. Band II. . Lief. 1. Redigirt 

von O. Hecht. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 
Exner, F. — Ueber eine neue Methode zur Bestimmung der Grosse der Molekfile. 

Wien, 1885. 8vo. 
Feichtinger, G. — Chemlsche Technologie der Mortelmaterialen. Braunschweig, 

1885. 8vo. 
Fischer, B. — Lehrbuch der Chemie fur PharmMcenten. Mit besonderer Beriicksich- 
tiguug der Vorbereitung zum Gehiilfeu-Exameu. 1. Halfte. Mit '20 in den Test 
gedruckten Holzschnitten. Stuttgart, 1885. 8vo. 
Fischer, O. — Ueber Flavaniliu. [Mliuchen.] 1885. 8vo. 

FOELSING, A. — Ueber einige Aetherester der (illycolsauro nud Salicylsiiure. I. 
Einwirkung von Bromwasserstoffsiiure. II. Einwirkuug von Ammoniak. Frei- 
burg, 1884. 8vo. 
FoNVlELLE, \V. DE. — Le Monde des atomes. Paris, 1885. lOmo. 
Fontaine, H. — Electrolysis, a jn-actical treatise on nickeling, coppering, gilding, sil- 
vering, the refining of metals and treatment of ores by electricity. Translated 
from the French by J. A. Berly. New York, 1885. 8vo. 
Fortschritte (Die) der Chemie. No. 6. 1834-'85. Herausgegeben von H. J. Klein. 

Koln, 1885. 8vo. 
Frankel, Nahemi Norbert. — Zur Keuutniss des Thiodiphenylamius. Zurich, 1885. 
Frankland, E. and F. R. Japp. — Inorganic Chemistry. London, 1885. 8v<). 
Freese, C. — Beziehungen zwischen den physikalischen Eigeuschafteii, und der Zu- 

sammensetzung chemischer Verbiuduugen. Brieg, 1884. 4to. 
Fremeuy, M. — Ueber Arsenwolframsiiure uud ihre Salze, Freiburg, 1884. 8vo. 
Fremy, et a. Terreil. — Le guide du cbimiste. Repertoire de documents th6oriqnes 
et pratiques a I'usage des laboratoires de chimie pure et de chimie iudnstrielie. 
Paris, 1885. Bvo. 
Fresenius, C. R. — Anleitung zur qualitativeu chemischeu Analyse. 15. verbesserte 

Auflage. Abtheil 1. Braunschweig, lbb5. ovo. 
Fresenius, R. — Trait6 d'analyse chimique qualitat ive ; des manipulations et opera- 
tions chimiques, des r^actifs et de lour action sur les corps les plus rdpandus, 
etc. 7. 6dit. fran?aise traduit (sur la 14<!me allemande) par L. Gautier. Paris, 
1885. 8vo. 
Fresenius, R. — Quantitative Analysis. Translated by Ch. E. Groves. Vol. II, part 

1. Loudon, 1H85. Bvo. 
Fresenius, K. — Tratado de andlisis quimica cualitati va. Vert, y adicion p. V. Peset. 
Valencia, 1884. 4to. 



678 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885 

Froehlich, Emanuel, — Ueber die Beuzoyliruug iironiatischer Plitaliinide, iiisbesou- 

dere des Phtalpseudocumids. Berlin, 1885. Hvo. 
FRtJHLiNG, R., und J. ScHULZ. — Aiileilnng zur Uutersuchuug <Jer fiir <lie Zuck«r-Iii- 

dustrie in Betracht kommendeu Rohmaterialien, Producte, Nebenproducte uud 

Hiilfssubstauzen. Zum Gebrauche zuniiclist fiir die Laboratorien der Zncker- 

fabrikeu, fiir Chemiker, Fabrikanien, Landwirtbe und Steuerbeaoite, sowie 

fiir landwirthschaftliche und Gewerbeschulen. Mit in den Text eingedracktfen 

Holzsticheu. 3. vermehrte und verbesserte Auflage. Braunschweig, 1H85. 8vo. 
Fktjtiger, G.— Coura ei^mentaire de chimie inorganique d'apr^e les lli«5()vie.s ino- 

(lerucs. Geneve, 1885. 8vo. 
FUES, Ekkst. — Ueber einige neue Abkommlinge des Benzidius und Diphenols. I'>er- 

lin, 18H.'. 
Gattermaxn, Ludwig. — Ueber einige Derivate des wi -Nitro-p-toluidins. Gottiugen, 

1885. 
Gebhardt, Willibad. — Ueber enbstituirte Amide der Koblensaure und Thiokohlen- 

saure. Berlin, 1885. 
Geppert, J. — Die Gasauaiyse und ihre pbysiologiscbe Anwendung nach verbesserteu 

Metboden. Berlin, 1885. Svo. 
Geigy, Rudolf. — Ueber einige Derivate des Pyridins. Miincheu, 1885. 8vo. 
Geymet. — Traits pratiqtie de photographie. filaments complets, perfectionneuients 

ct n)6tliode8 nouvelles. Procdd^ an g61atinobrouiure. 3. Edition revne et aug- 

ment<Se. Paris, 1885. Svo. 
Gilkinet, a. — Trait<5 de chimie pharmaceutique. Liege,, 1885. 8vo. 
Girard, J. de. — Phosphines d6riv^es des aldehydes. Paris, 1884. 4to. 
GorupBesanez. — Lehrbuch der Chemie. Band I. Anorganische Chemie. 7. Auflage 

neu lu'arbeitet von A. Rau. Braunschweig, 1885. 8vo. 
Graetzel, R. — Zur Kenntniss des Bibromcymols. Nachweis der Stellung der Broma- 

tome. Freiburg, 1884. Svo. 
Graham, Otto. — Ausfiihrliches Lehrbuch der Chemie. 3. giiuzl. umgearbeite Auilage. 

Banc 1. Physikalische uud theoretische Chemie. Abtheiluug 1. Physikalische 

Lehren von A. VViukelmann. Braunschweig, 1885. 8vo. 
GUAJKESCHi, J. — Enciclopedia di chimica scieutilica e industriale colle applicazioni 

all' agricoltura ed- Industrie agronomiche, alia metallurgia, alia merciologia, ecc. 

Torino, 1885. 
Guegen, a. — M^moire sur la th^orie chimique de la production du gas d'6clairage. 

M6moire ir. Paris, 1885. Svo. 
Hager, H. — Cheuiische Reactionen zum Nachweise des Terpeutinols in den atheri- 

schen Oelen, in Balsamen, etc. Fiir Chemiker, Apotheker, Drogisten und Fabri- 

kanten atherischer Ocle. Berlin, 1885. Svo. 
Hager, Hermann. — Ueber die Einwirkung von Chlorameiseusiiureiither auf Para- 

uitrauiliu. Gottiugen, 18^'4. 
Hager's Untersuchungeu. Ein Haudbuch der Uutersuchungeu, Priifung und Wert- 

bestimmung aller Handelswaaren, Gifte, Lebensmittel, Geheimmittel, etc. 2. 

uuigearbeitete Auflage herausgegeben von H. Hager und E. Holdermann. Leipzig, 

1885. Svo. 
Hands, T.— Numerical Exercises in Chemistry; luorganic. 650 examples. London, 

1885. 8vo. 
Hands, T. — The same, •' with answers." 
Handworterliuch der Chemie. Herausgegeben von H. von Fehliug und C. Hell. 

Liefg. 48, 49, uud 50. Braunschweig, 1885. Svo. 
Hanle, O. — Ueber die Einwirkung von Jod auf die Silbersalze der rechts- und links- 

polarisirenden Weinsiinrcn. Freiburg, 1884. Svo. 
Happ, J. B. — Ueber Chinoliu-para-snlfousaure und ihre Derivate. Freiberg, 1885. ftvo. 
Haracourt, C— Notions de chimie. 4me 6(\it. Paris, 1885. Svo. 



CHEMISTRY. 079 

Haushofek, K. — Microscopiscbe Reactiouen. Eine Anleitung ziir Erkominug ver- 
schiedener Elemente uud Verbiudnngen unter clem Microscop ; als Supploment, 
Ml den Methodeu der qualitativeu Analyse. Braunschweig, 18^5. 8vo. 

Haushofek, K. — Beitriige zur mikroscopisch-chemischeu Analyse. (Nachweis des 
Wolframs; iiber die niikroscopischen Krystalltorraen einiger Oxalate; iiber eineu 
kleinen Filtrirapparat.) [Miincben], 1885. 8vo. 

Hrfelmann, Rudolf. — I. Ueber die Entscbwefelung einiger Thiobarnstoffe mittelst 
Quecksilbercyauid. H. Beitrag zur Kenntuiss des SuUbbonzids. Berlin, 18H.5. 

Heintze, O. — Kiyt-tallographische Untersticbungen einiger organischen Verbinduu- 
gen. Rawitscb, 1885. 8vo. 

Hess, Wilhelm. — Ueber das j3-Lactou der Isopropylnitrophenylmllchsaure. Miin- 
chen, 1884. 8vo. 

HiNTZE, C. — Ueber die Bedeutung krystallographiscber Forschniig fiir die Chemie. 
Habililationsrede. Bonn, 1885. 8vo. 

HocH, R. — Die Einwirkung von Phosphorpentachlorid anf PhtbalsaureAnbydrid. 
Freiburg, 1884. 8vo. 

HOFMANN, A. W. — Zur Erinnerung an Jean Bapliste Andr^ Dumas. [With Dumas' 
portrait.] Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 

HOPMANN, A. W. — Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Coniin-Gruppe. 2 Theile. Berlin, 
1885. 

HoLLSTEiN, R. — Kurze Geschichte der Lehre von Isomorpbismus und Polymorphisraus. 
Liidenscheid, 1885. 4to. 

HoRBACZEWSKi, J. — Ueber kiinstliche Harnsaure und Methylbarnsaure. Wien, 1885. 
8vo, 

HoRSTMANN, A. — Theoretische Chemie 'einschliesslicb der Tbermochemie. Braun- 
schweig, 1885. 8vo. 

HowiTZ, n. — Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Alkylaniline, sowie iiber die Einwirkuug 
von Natrium und Natrium-Propylbromid auf para-Bromdimethylanilin in iitbe- 
rischer Losung. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo. 

Hue, F. — Le p6trole, son histoire, ses origiues, son exploitation dans tous les pays 
du monde. Paris, 1885. 12mo. 

Hughes, S. — Gas-Works. their Construction and Arrangement. New edition re- 
written and much enlarged by W. Richards. Seventh edition with important 
additions. Loudon, 1885. 12mo. 

Hummel, l. J. — The Dyeing of Textile Fabrics. London, Paris, New York, and Mel- 
bourne, 1885. 12mo. 

ISAMBERT. — Precis de chimie. Paris, 1885. Timo. 

IsTRATi, C. — Sur les 6thylbenziues chloriSes et sur quelques observations relatives 
aux points d'^bullition dans la s^rie grasse aromatique. Paris, 1885. 

Jahresbeiicht iiber die Leistungen der chemischeu Tochnologie mit besondorer Beriick- 
sichtigung der Gewerbestatistik fiir das Jahr 1884. Jahrgaug I-XXV bearbeitet 
von R. v. Wagner. Fortgesetzt vot^. Fischer. XXX, oder Neue Folge XV. Jahr- 
gaug. Leipzig. 1885. 8vo. 

Jahresbericht liber die Fortschritte der Pharmakotherapie. Herausgegeben von E. 
R. Robert. Band I, fiir das Jahr 1884. Strassburg, 1885. 8vo. 

Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Chemie nnd verwandter Theile anderer 
Wissenschaften. Herausgegeben von F. Fittioa. Fiir 1883 Heft IV (Schlnss). 
Giessen, 1885. 8vo. 

John, 0. — Ueber die blausiiuren Salze organischer Basen. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo, 

JoL*' et Curie. — La chimie dn bore, du silicinni et des silicates. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 

.lUNG, Otto. — Beiti-ag zur Kenntniss des Daphnetins. Berlin, 1885. 

.Iungfleisch, E. — Manipulations de chimie. Guide pour les travaux practiques de 

chimie. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
JtJPTNER VON JoNSTORKF, H. — Praktisches Handbuch fiir EiseiihUttenCheraiker. 
Wien. 1885. 8vo. 



fiSO SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Kahn, Myetil. — IJebcr die Einwirkung von Noi'inalbutylaldehyd auf Anilin bei 

Gegenwart von rauchender Salzsaure. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo. 
Kaisek, Adolf.— Ueber Mouonitroderivate dor ^- uud w-Acetamidobenzoesaure, sowie 

dereu Reductionsproducte (Anhydrosaureu). Alfeld, 1885. 
Kalder, E. — Producte der Eiuwirkung von Fiinii'acb-Chlorphosphor auf Succinyl- 

verbindungen iind Weiiisiiure. LeiT)zig, 1885. 8vo. 
Kayser, R. — Cheiniscbes Hilfsbucb I'iir die Metall-Gewerbe. Wiirzburg, 1885. 8vo. 
Kekule, a. et O. Waxlach. — Tableaux servant a I'analyse cbimique. Traduit par 

J. Krutwig. 2^me Edition. Bonn, 1885. 8vo. 
Keller, Paul. — Ueber einige Derivate des Kyanmetbins. Leipzig, 1885. 
Kent, W. H. — Untersucbuugen iiber Milcbzucker und Galactose. Gottingen, 1885. 

8vo. 
KiRSCH, E. — Beitragezur Kenntniss des Bibromcymols (Stelluug der Bromatome). 

Freiburg, 1884. 8vo. 
Kleeman, S. — Ueber zwei Syntbeseu der Metbylaetbylalphaamidoessigsaure. Er- 

langeu, 1884. 8vo. 
Klein, J. — Ueber das Tetrapbenylatban uud iiber die Einwirkung des Cbloralumi- 

uiums auf pbeuylbaltige Derivate chlorirte uud broujirte Aethane. Freiburg, 

1884. 8vo. 
Klotz, Carl. — Ueber Dicblortoluole und Dicblorbenzoe sauren. Stiittgart, 1885. 
Klubukow, Nikolaus von. — Ueber zwei neue VerfahrenzurBestimmungderDampf- 
dicbte. Leipzig, 1885. 
Knorr, Ludwig. — Ueber die Bildung vou Koblenstoff-Stickstoft-Ringen durch die 

Einwirking von Amin- und Hydrazinbasen auf Acetessigester und seine Derivate. 

Erlangen, 1885. 
Knyrim, Max. — Beitriige zur Kenntniss der a-Napbtol-/3-mono8ulfoeaure. Freiburg 

i. B., 1885. 
KORSCHELT, O., and H. Yoshida. — The chemistry of Japanese lacquer. [London?], 

1885. 
Kreysler, Ed. —Ueber einige Phenolester der Phosphorsaure. Reactionsverhaltnisse 

der neutralen Pbospborsiiureester eiuiger Pbeuole. Ziirich, 1885. 
Kruger, Paul. — Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Abkommlinge des Hydroxylamins. 

Berlin, 1885. 
Krutwig, J. — Exercises d'analyse cbimique quantitative. Bonn, 1885. 8vo. 
Kubierschky, Konrad.— Ueber die Tbiopbospborsauren. Rostock, 1884. 
Kuhn, Bernhard. — Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Cyansaureather. Berlin, 1885. 
KtJHNE, W.— Albumosen und Peptone. Heidelberg, 1885. 8vo. 
KULISCH, Paul. — Ueber die Einwirkung des Phosphorwasserstotfs auf Metallsal^lo- 

suugen. Berlin, 1885. 
Lampert, Friedr. — Ueber* einige Derivate des Trichlor-^, amidophenols. Rostock, 

1885. 
Landolt, H. — Ueber die Zeitdauer der Reaction zwischen Jodsaure und schwefliger 

Siiure. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 
Laxger, C, und V. Meyer. — Pyrochemiscbe Untersuchungen. Braunschweig, 1885. 

8vo. 
Leblanc, R. — Manipulations dechimie. Lemons pratiques. 4. 6dit. Paris, 1885. 12mo. 
Leeds, Albert R. — The Literature of Ozone and Peroxide of Hydrogen. Memoir II, 

including: 1. Historical-critical R68um6 of the Progress of Discovery since 1879. 

2. Index to the Literature of Ozone (1879-'83). 3. Index to the Literature of 

Peroxide of Hydrogen (1879-'8:?). [New York], 1884. 8vo. • 

Leschhorn, Jacob. — Ueber Phenylglycerinsaure uud einige Derivate derselben. 

WUrzl)urg, 1884. 8vo. 
Levin, L. — Lehrbucb der Toxicologie. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 

LiFSCHUTZ, J. — Ueber die Einwirkung der conceutrirten Schwefelsaure auf Nitro- 
antbrachinone. Freiburg, 1885. 8vo. 



CHEMISTRY. fi<^l 

LiVEiNG, G. D. — Chemical Equilibrium the Result of Dissipation of Energy. FiOndon 

and Cambridge, 1885. 8vo. 
Louise, E. — Synthase d'hydrocarbures, d'ac^tones, d'acides d'alcool, d'^tlicrs, (Ut (lui- 

nones dans la s6rie arouiatique. Paris, 1884. 4to. 
Low, WiLHELM. — Uober Ttirephtaldehyd. (Erlangen.) Miinchcn, 1885. 8vo. 
IjUBarsch, O.— Die cheraiHclie Priifiing des kompi-imierteu Pyroxylins. Ein I'.eifrag 

zor Analyse der Sprongkorper. Berlin, 1885. 4to. 
luUCKENBACH, G. — Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Imidoatber und Amidine. Freiburg, 

1884. 8vo. 

LtJDWiG, E. — Mediciuische Chjmie. Wien, 1885. 8vo. 

LxTHMANN, E. — Die Kchlensaurt. Eine ausfiihrliebe Darstelluug der Eigenscbaften 

des Vorkommens, der Herstellung und tecbnischeu Verwenduug dieser Snb.stanz. 

Wieu, 1885. 8vo. [Chemisch-tecbniscbe Bibliotbek, Baud 124.] 
Lunge, G. — Traits de la distillation du goudron de I'bouille et du traitement de I'eau 

ammoniacale. Traduit par L. Gautier. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
LusTiG, S. — Zur Kenntniss des Carvacrols (Oxycymols) und seiner Derivate. Bree- 

lau, 1885. 8vo. 
MacGowan, G. — Ueber Abkommlinge der Methylsulfonsaure insbesondere des Tri- 

cblormetbylsulfonchlorids. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 
Mares, F. — Beobacbtungen iiber die Ansscheiduug des indigschwefelsauren Natrons. 

Wien, 1885. 8vo. 
Maequisau. — Des goudrons de houille et leurs d^riT6s des goudrons de p6trole 

Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
Marvin, Ch. — The Petroleum Industry of Southern Russia and the Caspian Region. 

London, 1884. roy 4to. 
Masixg, E. — Elemente der pharmaceutiscben Cbemie. St. Petersburg, 1885. 8vo. 
Mehner, H. — Die Fabrikatiou chemischer DUugemittel in Leipzig. Leipzig, 1885. 

8vo. 
Metzger. S. — Pyridin, Chinolin und deren Derivate. Gekronte Preisschrift der philo- 

sopbischen Fakultat der Universitiit Wiirzburg. Braunschweig, 1885. 8vo. 
Meyer, E. von. — Zur Frage uach der chemischeu Constitution des Anthrachinons. 

Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 
Michael, R. — Ueber Carbonsauren synthetisch erhaltener Pyridinbasen. Leipzig, 

1885. 8vo. 

Mierzinski, S. — Die Fabiikation des Aluminiums und der Alkalimetalle. Wien, 

1885. 8vo. 
Mittheilungen aus der amtlichea Lebensmittel Unterauchuugs-Anstalt uud cbemischen 

Versa chsstation zu Wiesbaden, iiber die geschiiftliche uud wiss-enschaftlicbe Tha- 

tigkeit in dem Betriebsjahre 1883-'84. Herausgegeben von Dr. Schraitt. Berlin, 

1885. 8vo. 
MONSELISE, M. — L' ambra primaticcia o sorgo zuccherino del Minnesota. Sec(mda 

edizione. Mantova, 1884. 
MOrch, J. O. — Handbuch der ChdYnigraphie und Photochemigraphie. Nach eigenen. 

Erfahrungen bearbeitet. Dusseldorf, 1886. 
MOUTIER, J. — La thermodynamique. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
MiJLLER, Adolf. — Ueber einige Isonitrososiiuren. Ziirich, 1885. 
Muxoz DE Luna, R. T. — Tratado de quimica general y descriptiva. 5. edic. correg. y 

auiiieut. .Madrid, 1885. 4to. ' 
MusAio, G. — Nozioui elementari di analisi chimica qualitativa delle sostanze minerali. 

Caserta, 1884. 8vo. 
NiLSSON, L. F., och O. Pettersson. — Bestamning of chlorberylliumgasensegentlige 

vigt. Stockholm, 1884. 8vo. 
Nordmann, Eduard. — Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Saure-Nitrite. Berlin, 1885. 
Ogier, J. — Analyse chimique des gaz. Paris, 1884. Svo. 



(i82 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOE 1885. 

OSTWALD, W. — lu Sacben dei modernon Chemie. Oftener Brief an Hcrni Alhieclit 

Ran. Riga, 1844. 
Palm, R. — Gniudriss <lei- qualirativen uud quautitativeu cliemischen Analyse uebst 

einer General-Tabelle der wiclitigsteu Planzen-Alkaloide und einer Spectraltafel. 

Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 
Pawlow, O — Ucljer Tetrinsaure uud deren Homologe. [St. Petersburg], 1884. »vo. 
Peixe, Georg.— Ueber einige Deiivate des Zimmtaldehyds. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 
Peter, Arxold. — Zur Kenntniss der Thiophengruppe. Zurich, 188.'j. 
Pfeiffek, E., uud W. von Beetz. — Ueberdie electrische Leitungsiabigkeit des abso- 

luten Alcohols. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo. 
PiSANi, F. — Trait6 pratique d'analyse cbimique qualitative et quantitative. 2. 6dit. 

augment^e d'un traits d'analyse au chalumeau. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
Procter, H. E. — A Text-book of Tanning. A treatise ou the conversion of skins 

into leather, both practical and theoretical. Loudon, 1885. 
Prunier, L. — Tableaux d'analyse qualitative. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
QuESNEViLLE, M. Geo. — Neue Methoden zur Bestimmung der Bestandtheile der Milch 

und ihrer Verl'alsehuugen. Deutsch von Vict. Griessmayer. Neubnrg, a. D., 

1885. 8vo. 
Rammelsberg, C. F — Leitfaden fiir die qualitative chemische Analyse. 7. Auti. 

Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 
Eecueil des travaux chimiques des Pays-Bas. Par W. A. van Dorp, A. P. N. Frau- 

chimont, S. Hoogewei-ff, E. Mulder et A. C. Oudemans, jr. Tome III. Leide, 

1885. 8vo. 
Reddie, C. — Ueber das Verhalten des Anhydroacetometaparatoluyleudiamins gegeu 

Broni und gegen Salpetersiiure. Gottiugen, 1885. 8vo. 
EiCHARZ, F. — Die Bildung von Ozon, Wasserstoffsnperoxyd und Ueberschwefelsaure 

l»ei die Electrolyse verdiinnter Schwefelsaure. Berlin, 1884. 8vo. 
Eichter, M. M. — Tabellen der Kohlenstoffverbindungen nach deren empirischer Zu- 

sanmieusetzung georduet. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 
RiCHTER, M. — Ueber die normalen Propylnaphthaline und die bis heute bekannteu 

Naphthaliuderivate. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo. 
RiCHTER, V. von. — Chemie der Kohlenstoffverbindungen, oder oi'ganiache Chemie. 

4. Aufl. Bonn, 1885. 
RiCHTER, V. VON. — Trattato di chimica inorganica. Tradotto e corredato di note e di 

un appendice dal' A. Piccini. Torino, 1885. Bvo. 
RiESS, K. — Ueber einige Abkommlinge des Kyanathins. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 
Ripper, W. — Practical Chemistry. With notes and questions on theoretical chem- 
istry. Second edition. London, 1885. 8vo. 
RivifeRE, A. et C. — Trait6 de manipulations de chimie. Paris, 1885. 2 vols. 12mo. 
ROMEN, C. — Bieicherei, Farbei-ei und Appretur der Baumwoll und Leinen-Waaren. 

Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 
ROTHE, C. — Ueber die Entdeckung von Elementen. Wien, 1884. 8vo. 
Rudolf, E. — Die gesammte Indigo- Kiipenblau FJirberei, Reservage- und Aetz-Druck- 

erei (Blaudruck) auf Baumwolle und Leinen. Aus den Jahrgiingen 187.5-1885 

der Fiirberei-Muster-Zeitung gesammelt. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 
RcETZ, O. — Anleitung zur Priifung von Triukwasser und Wasser zu technischen 

Zwecken. 2. Auiiage. Neuwied. 1885. 8vo. 
Sabatier, p. — La chimie du zinc, du cadmium, et du thallium. Paria, 1885. 8vo. 
Sachs, F., I-e Docte, et A. Raeymaeckers.— Revue universelle des progrfes de la 

fabrication du sucre pour I'ann^e 1883-'84. Vol. I. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
Seelig, E.— Zur Kenntniss der gechlorten Toluole und ihrer Derivate. Freiburg, 

1885. 8vo. 
Sbidal, a. — Studien iiber die Darstellung, Zusammeusetznng und Eigeuschaften des 

Sennits [Cathartomannits]. Dorpat, 1884. 8vo. 



CHEMISTRY. H.^?, 

Skaudinaviens keiuiak-tekniske Ceutralblad for Dauuark, Sverige, Norj^e oy Fiulaud. 

Kj0beuhavu. Aarg. IV, 1885. 8vo. 
SCHAEDLER, 0. — Die Techuologie der Fette uud Oele der Fossilien (Mineialole), nowie 

der Iliirzolt! iiiid Sulimiermittel. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 
SCHAEDLER, C. — Kurzer Abriss dor Chemie der KohleuwasserstoflVi. Ziigleich eiu 

Reperitorimn fiir Studiiende iind practiscbe Chemiker, Techniker, Apotheker 

u. s. yv. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 
SCHAEFER, Th. — Ueber die Bedeutung der Alchemie. Bremen, 1885. 4to. 
SCHiFF, F. — Degli equivaleuti capillari dei corpi .semplici. Roma, 1885. 4ro. 
Schiller-Wechslajj, Max. — Ueber die Syntbese einer Anilidobrenzweinsanre (a- 

Metbyl-a-anilidobernsteinsaure) nnd deren Derivate. Berlin, 1885. 
Schilling, E. — Ueber Cafteiumethylhydroxyd, ein Beitrag zur Kenntnissdes Catfeius. 

Freiburg. 1884. 8vo. 
ScHLiCHTiNG, M. — Cbemische Versuche einfacbster Art. 8. Auli. bearbeitet von A. 

Wilke. Kiel, 1885. 8vo. 
SCHLOESING, Th. — Contribntion k l'6tude de lachimie agricole. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
Schmidt, E. — Anleitung zur qualitativen Analyse. 2. Aufl. Halle, 1885. 8vo. 
Schmidt, O. — Zur Keuutniss der Napbtbol-^-disultonsiiure uud ibrer Derivate. Frei- 
burg, 1884. 8vo. 
Schorlemmer, C. — Origine et d^veloppement de la chimie organiqne. Traduit de 

I'anglais par A. Claparede. Paris, 1885. 12mo. 
Schottl-Knder, p. — Ueber das Salpetersaure-Goldnltrat nnd einige nene Derivate 

derselben. VViirzburg, 1884. 8vo. 
Schradek, L. — Ueber Isopropyklerivate des Pyridius nnd Reductionsproducte des- 

selben. Kiel, 1885. 8vo. 
Schroeder, G. uud J. VON. — Wandtafeln fiir den Unterricht in der allgemeinen 

Cbemie und cbemiscbeu Tecbnologie. Lieferung 2. Kassel, 1885. fol. 
SCHtJCHNER, G. — Ueber die Einwirkung von Chromosycblorid auf Cymol und Ortho- 

nitrotoluol. Breslau, 1885. 8vo. 
Schutzenberger, p. — Traif6 de cbiniie geu^rale compreuant les principales appli- 
cations de la cbimie aux sciences biologiques et anx arts industriels. 2. Edition. 

Tome 11. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 631 pp. 
Schweitzer, H. — Chlorkresole und ibre Oxidationsproducte mittelst Chromisaure. 

Freiburg, 1884. 8vo. 
Schweitzer, W. — Ueber einige Derivate des Alphanapbtbylamines. Freionrg, 

1884. 8vo. 
Simon, S. E. — Ueber Monoxyautbracbinon uud einige seiner Derivate. Freiburg, 

1884. 8vo. 
Simon, W. — Manual of Cbemistry. London, 1885. 8vo. 
Smythies, J. K.— Problems of the Motions of Atoms. London, 1885. 4to. 
SoDEN, Hugo von. — Ueber Tripbenylphosphin und einige Derivate desselben. Leip- 
zig: Eeudnitz, 1885. 
Spelsbekg, Eduard. — Weitere Untersuchungen iiber ar-Aethyliden-Valerolacton. 

Wurzburg, 1884. 
Spring et Wixssinger. — De Taction du cblore sur les combinaisons sultoniques et 

sur les oxysulfates organiques. Li6ge, 1884. 8vo. 
Stadler, Otto. — Zur Kenntniss der Mercaptane. NitrirungdesTbiopbeus. Ziiricb, 

1885. 
Stammer, Ka.rl. — Chemical Problems, translated from the second German edition by 

W. S. Hoskinson. Philadelphia, 1885. 
Stkgelitz, p. — Ueber die Reductionsproducte des Chinolin-Aethylbromids. Frei- 
burg, 1884. 8vo. 
Stf.iger, a. von. — Ueber die Entdeckung und DarsteUnng des Salvadorin, oinesneuen 

Glykosids. Bern, 1885. 8vo. 



684 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR ^885. 

Stockbridge, H. E. — Ueber die analytischen BestiniDniugen dcB Ziickers der Kiiltf 

raittelst alteror und eines neu construirteii Appaiates. Gottiuge;i, 1885. 8vo. 
Stohmann, F. — Handbuch der Zuckerfabrikation. 2. iirugearbeitete Auflage. Berlin, 

1885. Svo. 
StOhr, K. — Ueber die Hydroparafnmarsanre. Kiel, 1885. 8vo. 
SxoKCn, v.— Mikroskopiske og kemiake Undersogelser over Smordannelsen veil 

Kjairuingen samt Smorrete fysike og kemiske Sammeussetning. Kj0beuliavu, 

1855. 8vo. 
Strecker, a., and J. WiSLiCENTJS.— Organic Chemistry. Translated and edited 

with extensive additions by W. R. Hodgkinson and A. J. Greenaway. 2d edition. 

London, 1885. 8vo. 803 pp. 
Supplemeuto annuale alia enciclopedia dl chimica scientitice ed industriale diretto dal 

Icilio Gnareschi. Anno priiuo. Torino (December), 1884. 
Tappeiner, H. — Anleltung zu chemisch-diagnostischen Untersuchmigen am Krauken- 

bette. Miincheu, 1885. 16uio. 
Technisches Centralblatt. Bd. III. Halle, 1885. 4to. 
Tecbuisch-chemisches Jahrbuch, 1883-1884. Ein Bericht fiber die Fortschritte anf 

dem Gebiete der chemischen Technologie von Mitte lt!83 bis Mitte 1884. Her- 

ausgegeben von K. Biedermanu. VI. Jahrgang. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 
THAXiis, R. — Sur le spectre du fer, obtenu a I'aide de Fare 61ectrique. IJpsal, 1885. 

4to. 
Thomson, T.— Lierebog i norganisk Cheini. 3. Udg. Kj0benhavu, 1885. Svo. 
Tillman, Samuel E. — Principles of Chemical Philosophy. [West Point, N. Y.] 

[1885.] 12mo. 
Trimble, Henry. — Practical and Analytical Chemistry, being a complete course in 

chemical analysis. Philadelphia, 1885. 8vo. 
Troost, L. — Precis de chimie. Is'' edit. Paris, 1885. 12mo. 
Urbain et St. Meunier. — La chimie du charbon de bois, dn uoir de fum^e et des 

combustibles niineraux. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
Urech, Fried rich. — Itinerarium durch die theoretische Entwicklungsgeschichte der 

Lehre von der chemischen Reactionsgeschwindigkeit. Berlin, 1885. 
Vogel, a. — Zur Chininprlifung. [MiinchenJ, 1885. 8vo. 
VoiGT, R.— Ueber die durch Oxydation von /?-Collidin erhaltene symmetrischo Pyri- 

dintricarbonsaure. Leipzig, 1884. Svo. 
VoiT* C. von. — Nekrologo anf J. G. von Jolly, J. B. Dumas, A. Wurtz, H. Kolbe, R. 

A. Smith und anderer. Mtinchen, 1885. Svo. 
VOLZ, O. — Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Naphthol-|(? monosulfonsaure. Freiburg, 1885. 

Svo. 
Wagner, A. — Lehrbuch der unorganischen Chemie. Miinchen, 1885. Svo. 
Warburg, E. — Ueber die Elektrolyse des festen Glases. Freiburg, 1884. Svo. 
Watt, A. — The Art of Soap-making; a practical handbook of the manufacture of 

hard and soft soaps. 2d edition. London, 1885. Svo. 
Wellington, Ch. — Ueber die Einwirkung des Formaldehyds auf verschiedene orga- 

uische Amine, sowie die Darstellung einiger sauren aromatischen Sulphate. Got- 

tingeu, 1885. Svo. 
Weltz, E. — Ueber einige Abkommlinge der Chlor-nitrobenzole. Freiburg, 1884. 

8vo. 
Wenzlik, C. — Ueber einige Derivate des Naphthochinons. Freiburg, l>:;i85. Svo. 
Williams, W. M. — The Chemistry of Cookery. Loudon, 1885. Svo. 
WiTTWER, W. C. — Grundziige der Molecular-Physik und der mathematischeu Chemie. 

Stuttgart, 1885. Svo. 
WiLBRAND, F. — Grundziige der Chemie nach induktiver Methode. Hildesheim, 1885. 

8vo. 
Wing, J. F. — Ueber Butyrylanhydrometabromisodiamidotohjol. Gottingen, 1885. Svo. 



I 



CHEMISTRY. 6*85 

Winkler, C. — Handbook of Technical Gas Analysis. Containing concise instructions 
for carrying out gas analytical xuctliods of proved utility. Translated, with ad- 
ditions, by G. Lunge. London, 1885. 8vo. 

VViSLiCKNUS, WiLHELM.— Ueber die Einwirkung von Cyankalium auf Phtalide. Wiirz- 
burg, 188'). 

WissER, Lieut. John P. — History of Chemistry. Course of sciences applied to mili- 
tary art. U. S. Artillery School, Fort Monroe, Va., 188o. square 8vo. 

Wolff, H. — Die Beizeu, ihre Darstellung, Prufung und Anwendung. Wien, 1885. 
8vo. 

Wolff, L. — Applied Medical Chemistry. A manual for students and practitioners of 
medicine. Philadelphia. 8vo. 

WoRMLEY, Th. G. — Micro-Chemistry of Poisons, including their physiological, patho- 
logical, and legal relations. With an appendix on the detection and microscopic 
discrimination of the blood. New edition, revised and enlarged. Philadelphia, 
1885. 8vo. 

Whoblewski, Sigismond de. — Comment I'air a 6t6 Iiqu6fi6 ; r6pon8e k I'article de M. 
J. Jamin. Paris, 1885. 

Wrobi^ewski, Sigismond von. — Ueber den Gebrauch des siedenden Sauerstotfs, Koh- 
lenoxyds sowie der atmospharischen Luft als Kiiltemittel. Wien, 1885. 8vo. 

WuLF, Paul.— Beitrilge zur Kenntniss der fractionirten Destination. Berlin, 1885. 

WuRTZ, A. — Introduction a I'dtude de la chimie. Paris, 1885. Bvo. 

WuRTZ. — Friedel. — Notice sur la vie et les travaux de Charles Adolphe Wnrtz. 
Paris, 1885. 8vo. 

Zangerle, M, — Kemian alkeet. Porvoosa, 1885. 



NECROLOGY OF CHEMISTS: 1885. 

Thomas Andrews, born December 19, 1813, at Belfast ; died November, 1885. He held 
the vice-presidency of Queen's College in Belfast, and was professor of chemistry 
in the same iustitutiou. His original researches, chiefly in physical chemistry, 
were numerous and valuable. 

Edw. H. von Baumhauer, died January 18, 1885, at Leyden. He was born Septem- 
ber 18, 1820, and for many years was professor of chemistry and pharmacy at 
Amsterdam. He held also the office of peqjetual secretary of the Netherland 
Society of Sciences at Harlem. 

E. O. Brown, died December 5, 188.">. He was one of the chemists in the Royal 
Arsenal, Woolwich, under Sir F. Abel. His knowledge of the chemistry of ex- 
plosives is said to have been unsurpassed. 

Arthur Calm, died in January, 1885. He was instructor in chemistry at the Uni- 
versity of Ziirich. 

John Christopher Draper, born March 31, 1835; di<!d December 20, 1885. He held 
chairs of chemistry and of natural history in New York colleges, and published 
several text-books on physiology and chemistry. His original researches were 
chiefly in the domain of medical chemistry. 

Hermann von Fehling, vice-president of the German Chemical Society, died July 
1, 1885. He was born June 9, 1812, in Liibeck. In both research and literary 
work Fehling has left an enviable record. 

Frederic Field, one of the original members of the London Chemical Soei<>ty, died 
April 3, 1885. He was authority on South American mineralogy, mining, and 
metallurgy, having resided in Chili for many years. His memoirs on ditierent 
branches of chemistry are fifty-five in number. 

Albert Fnz, of Strassburg, died May 11, 1885. He was one of the pioneers in in- 
vestigating the changes in organic bodies eflFected by microscopic points. 



r;,S() SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885, 

Walter Flight, born Jiinuary 21, 1841; died Noveruber 4, 1885. Dr. Flight was for 
many years assistant in the mineralogical department of the British Museum. 
He published many valuable papers on the cheuiical composition of meteorites, 
and of the occluded gases contained in them. For a fuller biography, see Nature, 
XXXIII, 85. 

Philipp Gkeifp, member of the German Chemical Society, died September 17, 1885. 

Otto Mendius, of Ziegelhauseu, died March 2\, 1885. He was the author of the well- 
known " Mendius' Reaction," for converting nitrites into primary amines. 

Hermann Romer, born October 31, 1848, at Mahlen, in Silesia ; died in Berlin, Jan. 
nary 27, 18S5. He was instructor in the Technical School at Berlin. 

Benjamin Silliman, born December 4, 1816 ; died January 14, 1885. He was one of 
the founders of the Sheffield Scientific School, and professor of chemistry in the 
Yale Medical School. For a full biography, see American Journal of Science. 

Alfred Tribe, died November 26 at the age of forty-six. His researches in conjunc- 
tion with Dr. Gladstone have been numerous and important. 

Walter Weldon, born October 31, 1832; died September 21, 1885, at his residence 
in Surrey. He was a most successful technical chemist, the author of the well- 
known " Weld on process" for regenerating the MnOa used in the preparation of 
chlorine. For fuller notice, see Chem. News, Lii, 176. 

George Witz, of Rouen, died June 17, 1885, aged 48 years. He made important con- 
tributions to the chemistry of cellulose. 

GUSTAV WuNDER, director of the Technisclie Staats-Lehranstalten in Chemnitz, die<l 
September 20, 1885. He was a member of the German Chemical Society. 



MINERALOGY. 



By Prof. Edward S. Dana, 

Tale Colleac, Keiv Havtn, Covn. 



GENERAl. WORKS ON MINERAL,OGY. 

The list of mi nera logical works published in 1885 includes a new 
edition of '^ ann > ami' s Element e dcr Miner aloflie.* This is the twelfth 
edition of the work, and, like the tenth, issued in 1877, and the eleventh, 
ill 1881, has been edited by Proiessoi- Zirkel, of Leipzig-. Jt includes the 
numerous additions of the jiast four years, and since theu the whole 
matter has been thoroughly worked over. While not aiming at exhaust- 
ive completeness, it yet gives mudi more than any other treatise in 
the German language, and is a decided advance upon j^revious editions 
of the work. The Lehrbuch der Mineralogie of Tschermak, the first edi- 
tion of which was noticed in the report for 1883, has appeared in a sec- 
ond edition, with some minor additions and corrections. Increased 
acquaintance with the work brings a higher appreciation of its excel- 
lence, more especially as regards its treatment of subjects in physical 
mineralogy. The veteran JRussian mineralogist, N. v. Kokscharow, con- 
tinues his labors with nnremitting activity. The product of the past 
year is an additional portion of the ninth volume of the Materialien zur 
Mineralogie Russlands, covering images 81 to 272, and giving a general 
description of the species turquois, and supplementary chapters ou 
topaz, vesuviauite, nephelite, orthoclase (sanidine) and liiiarite, 

A new edition of Grotli's Physilcalifiche Krystallographie has been pub- 
lished, with a very large amount of new nmtter, increasing the size of 
the volume nearly one-half. The additions are largely in the chapters 
devoted lo the methods and instruments employed in the study of the 
l)hysical characters of minerals, which are treated with a fullness that 
leaves nothing to be desired. The work is comprehensive throughout 
and only to be compared with Mallard's Traitc de Cri)itaUonraphie,uol'n^ed 
in the report for 1884, which, however, occupies a somewhat dilierent 
Held. Rosenbusch has completed a new edition of his invaluable Milro- 
akopische Pkysiographie der petrographisoh wichtigen Mineralicn, largely 
increased in size and improved in every waj'. The work is unrivalled 



• J\)r fiiU titleH of works mentioned, see ibe Bibliography at the close of the chai»t»ir, 



r;88 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1886. 

ill its special sphere, and is essential not only to the petrograi^her but 
also to the general mineralogist, being the production of an author who 
is thoroughly informed of the work done by others, and at the same time 
has himself made extensive contributions in the same direction. Under 
the title of The Determination of Rock-forming Minerals^ has been issued 
a translation, by E. G. Smith, of Beloit College, of Hussak's work (re- 
l)ortfor 1884), which is thus placed in convenient form for English-read- 
ing students. HirschwaW s catalogue of the mineral collection of the 
Berlin University is an addition to topographical mineralogy. Hatle 
has prepared a summary of the mineral o(;currences of Styria. In the 
department of meteorites the catalogue of the near y uniivalled collec- 
tion in Vienna by Brezina is interesting not only as a catalogue, but for 
the discussion of the classification of meteorites and of various points 
in regard to their structure and origin. 

A second report on the Mineral Resources of the United States for the 
calendar years 1883, 1884, has been issued by the U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey, under the same editorship as the first voIuiik- — Albert Williams, 
ir. This volume is much larger than its predecessor and is made up 
almost entirely of new matter. After a general sun)mary by the editor, 
a series of chapters, prepared for the most part by different specialists, 
are devoted to each subject, many of them treated with great fullness. 
Thus, to the subject of coal and coke two hundred pages are given; 
chapters on j^etroleum and natural gas follow ; then extended papers 
on iron, gold and silver, copper, lead, zinc, mercury, and the other metals, 
these last covering pages 246 to C61 . The remainder of the volume is 
given to a variety ol subjects, as building materials, abrasive materials, 
precious stones, fertilizers, mineral paints, glass materials; also salt, 
graphite, pyrites, and so on. The whole volume contains a vast amount 
of material of value and interest to a great variety of readers in prac- 
tical life. 

A fifth Annual lvei)ort of the Mineralogy of Califoi^nia has been issued 
by the State mineralogist, H, G. Hanks. It is largely devoted to an 
account of the exhibit of California and other States at the recent Ex- 
position in I^ew Orleans. The bulletins of the U. S. Geological Survey 
recently issued are some of them devoted to mineralogical subjects, 
more particularly No. 20, containing contributions to the mineralogy of 
the Eocky Mountains, by W. Cross and W. F. Hillebraud. This is 
largely a reprint of j>af)ers (on zeolites, cryolite, &c.) previously pub- 
lished, but contains also some additions and emendations of the original 
matter. Another bulletin contains a description of the secondary en- 
largement of mineral fragments (amphibole, quartz. «&c.) in certain 
rocks, by E.. D. Irving and C. E. Vanhise. 

CRYS'J ALLOGRAPHY AND PHYSICAL MINERALOGY. 

A crystallograpbie memoir of more than usual comprehensiveness is 
that of Ernst Rethwisch* on the ruby silvers (Eothgiiltigerz) ; it is in 

* For references, see the list of papers on mineral species at the close of this chapter. 



MINERALOGY. R89 

fact exhaustive in its treatment of the subject, though not original in 
matter for the most part. It opens with a catalogue of pajjcrs and books 
treating of the species pyrargyrite and proustite — extending from 1657 
to the present time — and then goes on to give a statement of the results 
reached, chemical and crystallographic. The list of planes observed 
on the t^YO species is one hundred and eight, with three doubtful ones. 
To this long list the author considerately makes no new additions. He 
discusses critically, however, the results of earlier observers, as Haiiy, 
Mohs, L6vy, and Sella — of whom, for example, Sella added forty-nine new 
forms — and for conv^enience of reference gives a series of lists arranged ac- 
cording to zones, according to the numerical value of the indices, by com- 
binations, and so on. He details also a series of measurements made 
upon four varieties, all of which were analyzed, and which included a pure 
proustite (containing no antimony), a pure pyrargyrite (with no arsenic), 
and also two varieties of the latter mineral, with 2-62 and 3-01 per cent, 
arsenic, respectively. It appears from these that the fundamental rhom- 
bohedron becomes a little more acute as the amount of arsenic increases. 
The values of the vertical axis in the different cases are 0-8034 (proustite), 
0-7890, 0-7893, 0-78G5 (pure pyrargyrite). A long list of calculated angles 
completes the memoir. The first part of a somewhat similar monograph 
has been issued by Sansoni, of Pavia. This is devoted to the calcite of 
Andreasberg, but when completed the memoir is to cover the whole 
species. The author has attacked the subject with great vigor, notwith- 
standing its difficulty and the large amount of the literature devoted to 
it. His observations are largely original, based upon a collection of 
twenty-five hundred specimens, loaned from many museums. The 
number of crystals measured is stated to be seven hundred and twenty- 
two. Eight types of forms are described and illustrated by a series of 
figures. The number of planes included is one hundred and thirty one, 
occurring in three hundred and fifty-nine combinations. 

An interesting contribution to the morphology of the species rhodonite 
has been made by G. Flink. The specimens examined were from Pajs- 
berg and L§,ngban, in Sweden, and included a large number of crystals 
showing considerable variety in habit and occurring planes. The num- 
ber of the latter identified is twenty-nine, of which nineteen are new. 
The author follows the suggestion first made in Dana's System of Min- 
eralogy, and later developed by Groth, and adopts the position which 
brings the crystals into correspondence with the related monoclinic 
pyroxene. This relation he discusses at length, and shows that the 
similarity in forms and angles and cleavage between the triclinic 
rhodonite and monoclinic pyroxene is very close, to be compared with 
that between the monoclinic and triclinic feldspars. The axial relations 

are: 

a : b : c a /? , y 

Rhodonite 1-0727 : 1 : 0-62104 70° 4'2' 710 16' 81° 39' 

Pyroxene 1-0903 : 1 : 0-5893 90 74 11 90 

H. Mis. 15 44 



690 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

The author also discusses at length the optical constants of t!ic spi*- 
cies. Two plates of figures show the various habits of the crystals. 
Some of the tabular forms are strikingly like the crystals recently ob- 
tained in some abundance at Franklin Furnace, New Jersey (variety 
fowlerite). 

Penfield has described crystals of tiemannite from Utah and also 
crystals of metacinnabarite from California. The former mineral, the 
pure selenide of mercury, has hitherto been known only in massive form. 
Itis now sliown to crystallize in tetrahedral crystals, similar to sphalerite 
in habit and in twinning. Metacinnabarite, the black amorphous sul- 
phide of mercury described by G. E. Moore, is also shown to crystallize 
in similar tetrahedral forms, the crystals, however, being less distinct 
and perfect than those of tiemannite. These two species thus take 
their proper places in mineralogical classification. It does not appear, 
however, that the dimorphous forms of the sulphides of zinc and mer- 
cury, wurtzite and cinnabar, bear any close relation to each other. 
Penfield's determinations give the crystallized tiemannite a specific 
gravity of 8-19, much higher than that before accepted for the species; 
also that of metacinnabarite 7-81, while the intermediate compound 
onofrite — the sulpho-selenide of mercury — from Utah lies between them 
with a specific gravity of 8-04, 

Crystals of azurite from the Clifton mines in Arizona have been 
measured by O. W. Huntington. They are shown to be highly modi- 
fied, though not adding to the already large list of the species (this 
list includes fifty-one or fifty-two jManes). The measured angles also 
correspond closely to those of the Chessy crystals. The work on the 
descloizite crystals of Nev, Mexico by vom Eath, according to whom 
they are to be taken as orthorhombic, is referred to on a later page. 

The apparent cleavage of titanite parallel to the liemipyramid ;; (2 P 
of the usually accepted form), conspicuous on the crystals from Northern 
New York, has been shown by G. H. Williams to be only a structural 
" parting," due to the interposition of twin lamellae. It thus has the 
same explanation as the frequently observed "cleavage," parallel to the 
basal plane of pyroxene, and similarly in other cases. The same author 
has described crystals of amj^hibole from Saint Lawrence County, New 
York, which were interesting in showing several new planes in the 
prismatic zone. Penfield has figured and examined optically some 
curious composite crystals of analcite from the Lake Superior copper 
region, remarkable for their symmetrical arrangement. The quartz 
crystals of North Carolina, hardly second to those of the Alps in inter- 
est and complexity of crystalline form, have received the attention they 
deserve at the hands of vom Hath. His memoir upon them is accom- 
panied by numerous figures showing the various types of forms. 

Additional observations on the crystalline form of the beautiful new 
borate, colemanite (see the report for *1884), have been published by 
Jackson, Hiortdahl and Arzruni. Palla has studied crystals of gothite 



MINERALOGY. il\H 

iiom Coni\v;ill, aud jittcnipted to show thai the iiiea«ureraeiits can 
be explained only by the iissun)i)tiou of the presence; of "vicinal" 
planes with very complex indices, or else of a monoclinic form with an 
obliquity of 36'. The correctness of su(;h conclusions may f.iirly be 
questioned. The phlogopite of Templeton, Canada, which is black to 
brown in color and shows the well known asterism, has been studied 
by Lacroix. His results go to prove that the inclusions to which the 
asterism has been long recognized as due are in this case minute acicu- 
lar crystals of rutile, which cross each other at angles of 90°, lliO°, and 
150°. Doelter has added to our knowledge of the relation between the 
optical properties and chemical composition of the various kinds of py- 
roxene, a subject the interest of which has already been recognized. 

The optical behavior and micro-structure of corundum forms the sub- 
ject of an interesting paper by Lasaulx, which goes far to settle the 
disputed question as to its true crystalline form. He concludes that 
corundum is truly optically uniaxial and hence is to be referred to the 
rhombohedral, not the monoclinic, system, and that the anomalous op- 
tical characters which have suggested the latter conclusion are con- 
nected with disturbances due to the growth and structure of the crystals. 
The optical irregularities are further associated with structure planes 
parallel to the rhombohedron,the base and the second hexagonal i)rism : 
the lamellar structure in these directions conditions the cleavage or 
" i)arting" often observed parallel to one or more of these forms. This 
parting, he concludes, is not caused by twinning lamellse, as has been 
assumed, but the latter determined by the presence of the structure 
planes, both appearing simultaneously. The optical irregularities are 
caused in part by tension in certain of the crystal, in part as a con- 
sequence of the interposed twin-lamellae. 

Rinne has made a study of the rare silicate milarite from an optical 
point of view, and reached the conclusion that it is to be taken as belong- 
ing in fact to the hexagonal system, although secondary causes have 
given it the optical structure which has led to its being classed as an 
orthorhombic species with hexagonal pseudo-symmetry. An analogous 
conclusion is reached by the same author in regard to apoph.yllite. 
Stadtlander has contributed the results of an optical study of sections 
ofapophyllite crystals from Stemi)el, near Marburg, extendingour knowl- 
edge of the optical anomalies and showing that, as has been proved be- 
fore, they must be referred to secondary causes. 

The often-discussed subject of the true form of leucite crystals (see 
report for 1884) has received an interesting contribution from Kosen- 
busch. After reviewing the results reached by others, especially by Klein, 
he goes on to detail the results of some experiments by himself on the 
effect of a high temperature upon the twin structure of the crystals. A 
section of an implanted crystal of leucite from Vesuvius, showing distinct 
twinning lamellae, was held in the platinum-pointed })incers before a 
microscope in such a position that a strong reflected light brought out 



(502 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

(clearly the twinning laiuell«5 as contrasted with the rest of tlie surface, 
and then strongly heated. Various sections were taken, but in every 
case when the heating commenced the surface under examination 
showed a peculiar movement, leading as the temperature rose to a 
change in the number, position, and dimensions of the twinning lamellae. 
Finally, when the heat was sufficiently increased all these lamellae and 
all breaks in the surface disappeared, and the entire surface reflected the 
light evenly. With a fall of the temjjerature, however, the irregular- 
ities in structure re-appeared, but not so as to reproduce exactly the 
original section ; that is, the position and number of the twinning lamellae 
were changed, although the law of twinning remained constant. The 
significance of such experiments, especially in connection with the dis- 
appearance of the optical anomalies with a high temperature, is obvious. 

Brauns has followed up a line of investigation earlier undertaken 
by him (report for 1883) in regard to the double refraction in crystals, 
which are isomorphous mixtures of salts normally isometric and isotropic, 
and has developed some interesting facts of this kind. H(^ recognizes 
the double refraction in such mixtures (as of different alums) as second- 
ary, but regards the final cause as yet undetermined, only suggesting 
that the different volumes of the molecules and different powers of re- 
fraction may play an important part in the matter. The minerals of the 
spinel or magnetite group have been made the object of a series of etching 
experiments by Becke, the aim of which was to add to our knowledge 
of the connection between etching figures and crystalline structure. The 
same author had earlier studied the same subject in connection with 
sphalerite and galena. The minerals now experimented upon were 
maguetite, franklinite, spinel, and linnseite. The etching figures on 
boracite and cryolite have been anew studied by Baumhauer. 

The following are some of the more important papers* on general 
physical mineralogy which cannot be briefly summarized, and hence 
are alluded to only: Miigge on change of position of crystalline planes, 
brought about by secondary twinning ; Liebisch on the total reflection 
in doubly-refracting crystals; Voigt on the values obtained for the 
constants of elasticity of rock salt and fluor spar, and also on the ex- 
planation of the pleochroic phenomena of crystals ; Beckenkamp on the 
methods of experiment in the determination of the constants of elas- 
ticity ; Wulff on the effect of different kinds of movement upon crys- 
tallization; Blasius on the expansion of crystals with heat, and the 
same author on the decomposition figures of crystals; Schrauf on the 
double refraction of calcite ; Curie on the formation of crystals and the 
capillary constants of their different faces; Dufet on the variation of re- 
fractive indices with heat; Danker on the experimental verification of 
the laws of total reflection deduced from Fresnel's laws of double refrac- 
tion; Riecke on the pyro-electricity of tourmaline. 

*For fnll titles, see the bibliogra])liy at the close of the chapter. 



MINERALOGY. Si) 3 

CHEMICAL MINERALOGY. 

Some interesting- contributions have been made to the important i)art 
of chemical mineralogy dealing with the artificial formation of minerals. 
An extended paper by Doelter, of Graz, describes the formation of a 
number of sulphides, as galena, cinnabar, chalcocite, bornite, covellitc, 
chalcopyrite, and pyrite, and also the sulphantimonites, miargyrite, 
jamesonite, and bournonite. The special object of the investigation was 
to accomplish the end aimed at under conditions and by methods as 
similar as possible to those that nature may be supposed to have em- 
ployed; in other words, to avoid for the most part very high tempera- 
tures and the use of reagents that can hardly have entered into na- 
ture's processes. For example, it was shown that pyrite may be pro- 
duced without essential elevation of temperature, by the action of water 
containing hydrogen sulphide upon hematite (Fe203), as also upon siderite 
(FeCOa) and magnetite (Fe304). Similarly the experiments with galena, 
lead to the conclusion that it could be produced in nature by hydrogen 
sulphide acting upon solutions of lead carbonate and lead chloride. 
Cubes of galena were formed in a tube containing lead cbloride, hydro- 
gen sulphide, and bicarbonate of soda, kept for Ave months at the ordi- 
nary temperature of the laboratory. Cinnabar was obtained in minute 
brilliant red crystals by digesting mercury in a sealed tube contain- 
ing hydrogen sulphide for six days at a temperature of 70° to 90° C. 
Covellite (CuS) was produced from malachite in a sealed tube contain- 
ing a hydrogen sulphide solution at 80° to 90°. Further, the same re- 
sult was obtained by treating cupric oxide (CuO) with the gas (H2S) 
in a glass tube at about 200° ; at a higher temperature 250° to 400° chal- 
cocite (CujS) was formed. The other experiments were of a similar 
nature. 

Wells and Penfield, in connection with their investigation of the new 
mineral, gerhardtite (see a later page), were led to study the formation 
and characters of an artificial basic cupric nitrate, having the same 
composition with it, viz, 4CuO, N2O5, 3H2O. The normal nitrate was 
heated with metallic copper in a sealed tube to about 150° C. for a day or 
more, the result being the formation of crystals of the compound named. 
These were tabular in habit, monoclinic in crystallization, but in di- 
mensions, as, too, in optical properties, remarkably near the ortho- 
rhombic gerhardtite. The axial ratios, for example, are : 

Gerhardtite a: b : (5=0-9218 : 1 : 1-1562, /3=90o 

Artiiicial compound h, : h : c=0"yi78 : 1 : 1 4102, ,9=850 27 

Moreover, the cleavage corresponds, as also the plane of the o])tic 
axes ; the dispersion, double refraction, and pleochroism also are simi- 
lar. The same artificial compound, first correctly established by Ger- 
hardt, was also made by Wells by adding sodium acetate to a hot di- 
lute solution of cupric nitrate, boiling, then washing the precipitate in 
cold water; it consisted of minute crystals, having the same composition 
as that given. 



G94 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

De Scbulteu describes the formatiou of a hydrous phosphate of iron 
Fe2P208+4Aq. iu rose-colored crystals, corresponding to the mineral 
strengite; strengite, however, is orthorhombic in crystallization, while 
these crystals were monoclinic. The same author has formed a magne- 
sium hydrate (the mineral brucite) in six-sided tabular, or short pris- 
matic crystals, optically uniaxial ; also a similarly crystallized cadmium 
hydrate. Vater describes crystals of hematite, formed in the fire flues 
in the chemical manufactory in Schonebeck, near Madgeburg. Their 
formation is explained by the presence of pyrite and sodium chloride 
in the coal em])loyed; from these iron chloride for;us, which, in the cooled 
parts of the flues, is decomposed by the escaping water vapor with the 
result named. The crystals attain a magnitude of 2 millimeters. 

The natural alteration of minerals is another chapter of chemical 
mineralogy which has received some attention. F. W. Clarke and J. S 
Diller have studied the changes of the topaz of Stoneham, Me. Their 
investigations cover both the chemical and microscopical sides, tbe sec- 
tions under the microscope showing the progress of the alteration and 
the analyses what the results are. A series of analyses trace the 
changes from the unaltered topaz to the linal product, massive or folia- 
ted potash mica (damourite). The fluorine lost by the topaz is believed 
by the authors to have led to the formatiou of the fluorite, herderite, 
triplite, and apatite of the locality. Cathrein has studied the changes 
undergone by the garnets of the amphibole schists of the Tyrolean Alps. 
The alterations described are very various, leading to the formation of 
scapolite, of epidote, oligoclase, hornblende, saussurite, and chlorite. 
Another interesting case of pseudomorjihism is that of turquols after 
apatite. The specimens were from Taylor's ranch on the Chowcilla 
River, iu Fresno County, California, and they are described bj' G. E. 
Moore and V. von Zepharovich. The crystalline form of the original 
mineral is distinct, a hexagonal prism, but the substance consists of a 
greenish-blue or bluish-green aggregate of minute spherulites with 
radiated and concentric fibrous structure. An analysis showed it to be 
a hydrous phosphate of alumina, with a little iron, and about 8 per cent, 
cupric oxide, corresponding approximately to an analysis by Church of 
a turquois from Kichabur. Still another case of pseudomorphism im- 
iwrtaut especiallj^ iu its geological relations is that of the thinolite, the 
crystalline calcareous tufa of Lake Lahontan, in Northwestern Nevada. 
This occurs, as is well known, on an immense scale, and the question of 
its origin is a vital one in the explanation of the geological changes of 
the region. It was referred to gay lussite by Clarence King, but the 
writer shows from a crystallographic study of the forms remaining that 
it does not correspond to any known mineral, having a Ibrm which can 
be approximately referred to an acute tetragonal pyramid. The simi- 
larity of this to the pseudomorphs of lead carbonate after phosgenite 
(chloro -carbonate of lead) has suggested the hypothesis that the origi- 
nal mineral may have been an isomorphous chloro-carbonate of calcium. 



MINERALOGY. G95 

It is also shown that the well-known but enigmatical " bailey corn" 
pseudomoiphs after calcite from Sangerhausen very probably had the 
same origin. 

Still another case of pseudomorphism recently studied in detail is 
that of the rare mineral leucite, which is shown by Sauer to occur in 
an altered form extensively in the leucitophyr of the Saxon Erzgebirge. 
It is not found in a fresh state, but changed on the one hand to aual- 
cite and on the other to orthoclase and muscovite. Pseudomorphs of 
orthoclase from Magnet Cove, Arkansas, having the iorm of the familiar 
tetragonal trisoctahedrou of garnet and leucite (2-2), have been referred 
to leucite by G. F. Kunz, but the subject requires further study before 
this suggestion can be accepted. 

Of memoirs on the chemical compositiou of minerals, that by Eam- 
melsberg on the scapolites deserves mention first. It follows the ijaper 
of Tschermak on the same subject, and while not removing all the difii- 
culties from this most complex subject, it has at least the advantage 
that it does not deal so much with hypotheses as with facts. So far as 
can be explained in brief, his conclusion is that the various members 
of the scapolite group are to be regarded as combiuations of the normal 
or meta silicates (bisilicates) NaiSiO^, CaSiOa, AlaSigO,, ; of the ortho- 
silicates (unisilicates) Na4Si04, Ca^SiO^, AlgSiaOi^, and of the subsili- 
cates Na3Si20.„ CaSioOr,, Al^SicOis. Friedl discusses the composition of 
staurolite, giving new analyses of some pure varieties, with special refer- 
ence to the oxidation of the iron. The formula adopted is that of a basic 
silicate with an oxygen ratio of 2 : 1, viz, (Mg, Fe)^ Alc(A10)i8 (OH)4 
(Si04)ii. The rare Vesuviau mineral noceriue has been analyzed by 
Lederer with the result of proving, as shown by Fischer,that it is an 
oxy-fluoride of calcium and magnesium, with also aluminum, sodium, 
and potassium, but, perhaps, not as essential constituents. 

Dr. Genth's last paper, entitled Contributions to Mineralogy, contains 
analyses of a number of interesting minerals, asjoseite. galenobismutite, 
argeutobismutite (Silberwismuthglanz), cosalite, schirmerite, beegerite, 
polybasite, vauadinite, annabergite, &c. Koenig has given new analy- 
ses of cosalite, alaskaite, and beegerite from Colorado. H. F. and H. A. 
Kellar have published an analysis of a variety of kobellite from Colo- 
rado, interesting in containing 5 to per cent, of silver, but no antimony. 
Analyses of several common American minerals are given by E. F. Smith, 
Knerr, and others in recent numbers of the American Chenjical Journal. 
Claassen discusses in the same journal some vanadium-bearing magne- 
tites. Other chemical results are noted in the paragraphs immediately 
following. 

NEW MINERAL LOCALITIES IN THE UNITED STATES AND ELSEWHERE. 

Perhaps the most interesting discovery of the year is that of the rare 
mineral, descloizite, in New Mexico, with also iodyrite, vauadinite, and 
eudljchite, The locality is in Lake Valley, Pouna Auua County, aud 



696 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

the new occurrences are described chemically by Genth and crystallo- 
graphically by voui Rath. The descloizite occurs in minute brilliant 
orange-red crystals; also in reddish chestnut-brown crystals up to 2°^°^ 
in size and associated with psilomelane and pyrolusite ; and finally in 
blackish-brown to black crystals, which are sometimes G™"^ in size. The 
specimens analyzed conformed to the accepted formula of the species. 
The crystals are varied in habit, chiefly pyramidal ; they are in somt cases 
quite highly modified and orthorhomhic in crystallization. The results 
of vom Rath thus differ from those of Websky, who made the species 
monoclinic. The question is one of interest, since the form of several of 
the minerals belonging in this libetheuite-olivenite group is somewhat 
doubtful. It will probably be found that they are all orthorhombic. 
Descriptions are also given with analyses of the vanadinite and endli- 
chite (see in the list of new minerals), and finally of the iodyrite. 

The mineral arsenopyrite or mispickel is now being mined in large 
quantity at Deloro, Hastings County, Ontario. During the past year 
crystallized specimens have been obtained from there showing the cru- 
ciform twins observed from other localities (e. g., the Binnenthal in Switz- 
erland). The " fossil forest " of Arizona has also been developed re- 
cently as a source of agatized wood ; beautiful polished specimens for 
table tops and other ornaments are now obtained from that source. A 
paper on the locality is given by G. F. Kunz, in a recent number of the 
Popular Science Monthly. Of more scientific interest is the discovery 
of zinc spinel, gahnite, at the pyrite mine in Rowe, Mass. Fine green 
octahedral crystals have been described and analyzed by A. G. Dana; 
associated with it, besides the pyrite, are epidote and rutile. G. F. Kunz 
has described in some detail the occurrence of native antimony in York 
County, New Brunswick, and of various copper minerals in Arizona. 
W. P. Blake mentions the fact that ery thrite is found at Lovelock's Sta- 
tion, Union Pacific Railroad, in Nevada ; also at the Kelsey mine, Comp- 
tou, in Los Angeles County, California. W. E. Hidden describes phena- 
cite from Florissant, El Paso County, Colorado ; xenotime from the 
same locality ; also a mineral assumed to be fayalite from Cheyenne 
Mountain, in the same State. The occurrence of minute crystals of fay- 
alite in the obsidian of the Yellowstone Park is described by W. P. Id- 
dings, as already noted. The same author, with Whitman Cross, shows 
that the otherwise rare mineral, allanite, is widely distributed as an ac- 
cessory microscopic constituent of many rocks. The work of Penfield 
on crystals of tiemannite from Utah and metacinnabarite from Cali- 
fornia has already been spoken of, as also that of O. W. Huntington 
on crystals of azurite from Arizona. The bulletin of Cross and Hille- 
brand, already alluded to, contains many points in regard to the min- 
erals of Colorado. 

Of new foreign occurrences the following may be briefly alluded to: 
Fairfieldite, at Rabenstein, Bavaria, identical with the imperfectly de- 
scribed leucomanganite; nephrite, near the orient al stone in character, at 



MINERALOGY. HO? 

Jordausmiihl, Silesia -, mouazite in crystals iu Cornwall; also the redis- 
covery of the very rare mineral counellite, also in Cornwall. The long- 
known localities in Dsiiphiny, of antimony, octahedrite,axinite,epidote, 
turnerite (monazite), &c., have been recently described by Groth, giving 
interesting facts in regard to the relations of the different species. 

NEW MINERALS. 

Avalite.* — This is announced by S. M. Losanitsch as a new chromium 
silicate, but, as will be seen, the investigation is too incomplete to es- 
tablish its position as a new species very firmly. It is found at the 
mercury mines of Mount Avala, near Belgrade, Servia, associated with 
mercury, cinnabar, calomel, and so on. The material obtained for ex- 
amination consisted of a green earthy mass, very impure, but from 
which, by repeated decantation and boiling with aqua regia, the clay, 
cinnabar, oxide of iron, &c., were separated, leaving only sand and 
chromite mixed with the mineral. This, partially purified, as described, 
was seen under the microscope to consist of thin crystalline plates of 
an emerald-green color. They were not attacked by acids, but were de- 
composed by hydrofluoric acid and also by fusion with an alkali carbo- 
nate ; upon ignition it turned brown. Three analyses were made, of 
which that made upon the purest material is as follows: 

SiOa CrsOj AI2O3 FezOj K2O MgO H2O (bygr.) Ign. 

5613 14-59 14-37 1-10 3-54 0-43 2-39 5-38 chromito 1-68 = 99-61 

Considering the nature of the material the attempt to calculate a for- 
mula is obviously of little use. 

Cappelenite. — A jireliminary announcement only of this mineral is 
given by W. 0. Brogger. It is found in thick prismatic crystals, be- 
longing to the hexagonal system, with a vertical axis equal to 0.4301. 
The planes observed, jjrismatic, and basal with two pyramids, were well 
polished. The color was brown, without distinct pleo.chroism, and the 
luster on the fracture surfaces greasy; the double refraction rather 
strong and the axis negative ; specific gravity, 4-407. An analysis by 
P. T. Cleve gave the following results : 

BaO CaO NajQ KzO Ign. 

:100 

It was found in a small vein in augite syenite, on Lille Aro, in the 
Laugesunds tjord, Norway, a locality which has afl^brded a large number 
of rare minerals of unusual composition ; cappelenite is not less remark- 
able in these respects, and a fuller description Avill be awaited with in- 
terest. 

UlpasoUte. — This name is given by Cross and Hillebrand to a fluoride 
of aluminum and i>otassiiim, found si)ariugly in small cavities in the 
massive pachnolite of Colorado (report for 1884). It was observed iu 

* For references see the lLt>t of mineral species following. 



Si02 


BfOs 


Y2O3 


La2(Di2)03 


Ce203 


Th02 


BaO 


CaO 


Na20 


KjO 


Ign. 


14-16 


[1713] 


52-55 


2-97 


1-23 


0-79 


8-15 


0-61 


0-39 


0-21 


1-81 



61'8 SCLExNTil IC KECOKD FOK 1885. 

some rather obscure isometric crystals, but generally in a compact ir- 
regular mass, nearly colorless and isotropic. An imperfect analysis 
gave the following results : 

F Al Ca Mg K Na 

46-98 11-32 0-72 0-22 28-94 9-90 =-98-08 

The alkalies were determined approximately only, and hence no at- 
tempt is made to calculate a formula, but it is suggested that it may be 
regarded as a cryolite, in which two-thirds of the sodium are replaced 
by potassium. Further investigation is to be desired. The name is 
from the county El Paso, which embraces the greater part of the Pike's 
Peak region. 

Endliehite.— Among the specimens from the newly-described locality 
of descloizite, in Lake Valley, Kew Mexico, was a vandiferous mimetite 
to which Dr. Geuth has given the name Endlichite (after Dr. F. M. End- 
lich). Like the related isomorphous species, mimetite, vanadinite, and 
j)yromorphite, it occurs in hexagonal prismatic crystals. These are mod- 
ified by pyramidal planes, both being strongly striated. The crystals are 
also sometimes hollow. An analysis was first made (I) of crystals of a 
yellowish-white or pale straw-yellow color, the largest 3™™ long and 0-5 
to 1-5™™ thick. A second analysis was later made (II) of the same min- 
eral, occurring in groups of crystals having a columnar structure. The 
color varied from white to yellowish-white, straw" yellow, and at the ex- 
tremities sometimes changing to deep orange red. The largest groups 
were 10™°^ in length. The analyses were as follows : The material upon 
which the first was made consisted largely of impurity (76.4 per cent, 
quartz, &c.). 

AsiOs V2O5 PbO ci 

1 10-73 7-94 7915 2-18=100 

II(sp. !:crav.=6.S64) 13-52 10-98 7348 2-45 CaO 034, PaOg tr. = 100-77 

The calculated formula is PbaCl (As04)3 + PbgCl (V04)3, which re- 
quires: AS2O5 11-86, V2O5 9-60, PbO 68-99, Pb 7.11, CI 2 44=100. 

Gerliardtite. — A new copper mineral, unique in that it is the only 
nitrate thus far known in nature, except the soluble nitrates of sodium, 
magnesium, &c.; it is described by H. L. Wells and S. L. Penfiekl. ' 
Only a single specimen has as yet been identified; this was from the 
United Verde copper mines, Jerome, Ariz., and consisted of pure mas- 
sive cuprite, inclosing in a crack the crystals of gerhardtite and a few 
acicular crystals of malachite. The crystals belong to the orthorhombi(; 
system;, they are pyramidal in habit, consisting of a zone of nine pyra- 
mids in oscillatory combination with the basal ]>lane predominating, and 
the prism and a luacrodome subordinate. There is a perfec basal 
cleavage and also a second cleavage parallel the macropinacoid. The 
mineral is very soft (harduess=2) and cleavage plates cau be readily 
bent, then separating in the direction of the second cleavage. The 
specific gravity is 3-426, The color is <lai-k green and the streak light 



MINERALOGY. 690 

<,aeeii ; tianspareut. The optic axes lie iu a plane parallel to the brachy- 
pinacoid, and the bisectrix is negative and normal to the basal x)laue 5 
the axial angle is large, 80° for green rays, measured in a solution of 
mercuric iodide in potassium iodide (m = 1'722). The pleochroism is 
distinct. An analysis yielded the following results: 

N2O5 CuO H2O 

22-76 66-38 11 26 =100-40 

The formula calculated, viz, 4CuO, NjOs, 3H2O, requires N2O5 22-52, 
CuO 6G'22, H2O 11'56 = 100, agreeing closely with the results of analy- 
sis. The mineral is named after the chemist who first determined the 
true composition of the corresponding artificial compound. This arti- 
ficial salt, as noted on a previous page, has also been made by Wells 
and Penfield and shown to crystallize in the monoclinic system ; the form, 
however, is rather closely related to that of the orthorhombic geihard- 
tite. 

Grcvphitoid. — This name has been given by Sauer to a substance whicli 
he regards as amorphous carbon. It occurs extensively in the mica 
schists and phyllites of the 8axon Erzgebirge. It forms loose incrusta- 
tions on the surfaces of the schist, shows no crystalline structure, and 
burns with comparative rapidity in a Bunsen burner. An analysis of 
the combustible substance gave — carbon, 99-76; hydrogen, 0-24 = 100; 
showing that it is essentially pure carbon. Besides occurring as an in- 
crustation it also impregnates the rock mass, forming fine bands of mi- 
nute particles passing iu parallel directions through the irregular quartz 
grains. The author recognizes the fact that true graphite is also a 
common constituent of many archsean rocks, but suggests that with it 
the graphitoid may also be present. A related form of amorphous car- 
bon was described a few years ago by von Inostranzeff, also from phyl- 
lite. 

Hatiksite. — A new anhydrous sulphato-carbonate of sodium, described 
by W. E. Hidden, obtained from San Bernardino County, California, 
where it occurs with thenardite, borax, &c. It is named after Mr. 
Henry G. Hanks, State mineralogist of California. Hanksite crystallizes 
in the hexagonal system, the crystals being short hexagonal prisms 
with one or two pyramids and the basal i)lane ; they sometimes form 
confused groups of tabular six-sided crystals. Optically it is uniaxial, 
negative. The hardness is 3 — 3-5, and the sj^ecific gravity 2-562. The 
color is white, inclining to yellow; the crystals nearly transparent, 
though sometimes inclosing impurities. An analysis by J. B. Mackin- 
tosh gave the results under I, below ; another analysis by S. L. Penfield, 
made two years since upon a large crystal from California (exact locality 
unknown), is given under II. 

S0» CO3 01 Na20 

1 45-89 5-42 2-36 4634= 10001 

II 43-59 5-42 2-13 40 86 K 233, insoL 4 41, igu. 1^2 ~ 10006 



700 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

The chloride of sodium (or potassium) shown in the analyses is prob- 
ably present as impurity. Excluding this the composition becomes: 
4Na2S04 + NaaCOa, which requii es ^82804 84-27, NazCL'a 15-73 = 100. 

Mydrogiobertite (Idrogiobertite). — As the name indicates (from ^udivp, 
water, and giobertite, a synonym of magnesite), this is a new hydrous 
carbonate of magnesium ; it is from Vesuvius, and is described by Eu- 
genio Scacchi. The mineral was fomid in the interior of a mass of 
augitophyre, in the neighborhood of Pollena. It appears in spherical 
forms from 2 to 15 millimeters in diameter. These have a comi^act tex- 
ture and a light gray color. The specific gravity varies from 2-149— 
2-174. Small crystals of magnetite are imbedded in the spheres, both in 
the surface and in the mass. Two analyses were made, with the follow- 
ing results : 



C02 


MgO 


H2O 


25-16 


44-91 


29-93=100 


25-29 


44-28 


30-43=100 



Both analyses have been calculated to 100, after deducting the small 
amount of impurity present (magnetite, &c.). They correspond closely 
to the formula Mg2C04 + 3aq, which requires: CO2 24-72, MgO 44-94, 
£120 30-34=100. The nearest related minerals are hydro-magnesite 
(Mg4C30io-+-4aq) and the doubtful lancasterite. 

L&venite (or Lovenite). — This new mineral, also announced by W. C. 
Brogger, is like cappelenite (above), from an island in the Langesunds 
fjord, Norway. It is found in prismatic crystals belonging to the 
monocliuic system. The axial ratio deduced is, « : /^ : c : = 1-0811 : 1 : 
0-8133, and the obliquity /J = 71° 24i' ; the form, consequently, is some- 
what related to that of pyroxene. The cleavage is perfect parallel to 
the orthopinacoid. The optic axes lie in the j)lane of symmetry, the 
acute bisectrix beiug inclined forward about 204° to the vertical axis. 
The color is chestnut-brown to yellowish, with marked pleochroism. 
The specific gravity is 3-51. An analysis by P. T. Cleve gave : 

Si02 Zr02 re2O3(0 MnO CaO NaiO ign. 

33-71 31-65 5-64 506 11-00 11-32 1-03 = 99-41 

It is somewhat related in composition to the hexagonal catapleiite, 
but contains less silica. 

Pinnoite. — Described by H. Staute as anew magnesium borate. It is 
l^robably to be regarded only as a decomposition product of boracite. 
It occurs at Stassfurt intimately associated with white earthy boracite. 
It has an even fracture with a glistening surface, and sometimes shows 
traces of a fibrous structure ; magnified slightly it appears fine-granular 
to compact, with occasional crystalline planes. The color is sulphur- 
yellow to straw-yellow, sometimes pistache-green ; also at times it has a 
grayish or reddish tinge. The hardness is 3 to 4; the specific gravity 
2-27. The mean of several analyses by Staute and Stromeyer gave: 

B2O3 MgO H2O Fe CI 

[42-50J 24-45 32-85 015 0-18 



MINERALOGY. 701 

Other analyses of ditfereiit samples gave concordant results, all agree- 
ing with theformulaMgB204 4-3H20, which requires: B2O34209, MgO 
24-39, H2O 3292. 

Polyarsenite-Sarkinite. — These are two minerals described independ- 
ently by different authors, from diflerent localities, and yet very closely 
related, if not identical. Polyarsenite, named by Igelstrom in allusion 
tp its large amount of arsenic, is from the Sjo mines in the Grythyt- 
tan parish, Sweden. It has a yellowish-red color, is transparent, but 
shows no crystalline form and no cleavage ; an optical examination by 
Bertrand shows that it is biaxial, with an angle of 83^ and a negativ^e 
bisectrix ; specific gravity 4-085. It is found in granular form, associated 
with a little barite, and also hematostibiite in veins in calcite embedded 
in tephroite. An analysis by Soderbaum is given below. 

SarMnite, named by A. Sjogren from (rdpxtvog (bloody, fat), with a 
double allusion to its blood-red color and greasy luster, is from the iron- 
manganese mines of Pajsberg, Sweden. Its hardness is 4 to 5, and 
specific gravity 4-14. Two cleavages were observed, but no crystals 
were found, and the system is thus in doubt; optically, however, it is 
biaxial. An analysis was made by C. H. Lundstrom, and for the sate 
of comparison it is placed beside that of polyarsenite. 

A82O5 SbsOs PaOg MnO FeO CaO MgO H2O 
Polyarsenite (S) . 39-05 1-20 .... 50-18 tr. 2-88 0-75 3-15 CO2 3 -51 = 100-72 
Saikinite 41-60 ... 0-21 51-60 0-13 1-40 0-98 3-06 insol. 0-38, PbO 0-25, CO? 0-76 = 100-37 

For the former Cleve calculates 4MnO, AS2O5 + H2O, which requires: 
AS2O5 43-23, MnO 53-38, H2O 3-39 = 100. 

Uiiitahite — This name has been given by W. P. Blake to a peculiar 
variety of asphaltum which occurs in considerable quantities in the 
Uintah Mountains. It is obtained in masses several inches in diameter ; 
it breaks with a conchoidal fracture, is brittle and easily reduced to 
powder in a mortar. The hardness is 2 to 2-5, and the specific gravity 
1-065 to 1-070. The color is black and the surface brilliant and lustrous. 
It fuses easily in the flame of a candle and burns with a brilliant flame, 
resembling sealing-wax, and like this it gives a clean, sharp impression 
with a seal. It gives off upon distillation a small quantity of a clear 
white dense oil and a little vapor. It is soluble in heavy lubricating 
petroleum, while the lighter i)roducts of the petroleum do not affect it. 
It is soluble also in warm oil of turpentine, but not in ordinary alcohol^ 
and in ether only when powdered. In melted wax it dissolves, forming 
on cooling a hard black mixture resembling " burnt wax." It is sug-^ 
gested that it may prove to be useful in various ways in the arts. A 
more complete chemical examination is needed to establish its true 
character. 



702 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Brief refercnccH to papers upon mineral species: 1885. 

Alabanditk. Formation artiticially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 32. 

Alaskaite. Ouray County, Colo., analysis, G. A. Koenig, Am. Phil. Soc. PJiiliid. 

XXII, 211. 
Albite. Finland, containiuo: Pa Os, G. Lindstrom, Geol. For. Forh., vii, 681. 
Allaktite. Full description, Hj. Sjogren, Zs. Kr., X, 114. 

Optical examination, Krenuer, Zs. Kr., x, 83. , 

Ali-ANITE. An accessory constituent of many rocks, J. P. Iddings and W. Cross, Am. 
J. Sc, XXX, 108. 
Nelson County, Va., analysis, Memmiuger, Am. Ch. J., vii, 177; analysis of de- 
composition ijroduct (Kaolinite), Valentine, ib., 178. 
Var. ortliite, crystals from Thuringia, Luedecke, Zs. Kr., X, 187. 
Amphibole. Crystals described from Riveau Grand (Mont Dor6), Oebbeke, Bull. 
Soc. Min., VIII, 46. 
Saint La\vrence County, N. Y., crystals with (170) (150), 0. H. Williams, Jahrb. 

Min., 1885, ii, 175. 
Twin crystals in rocks, Fr. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., vii, 98. 
Analysis of a fibrous bisilicate from Nelson County, Va., Patterson, Am. Cb. J., 

VII, 180. 
Enlargement of fragments in rocks, C. R. VanHise, Am. J. Sc, xxx, 231. 
Fusion experiments, Becker, Zs. geol. Ges., xxxvii, 10. 
Anatase. See Octahedrite. 

Analcite. Composite crystals from Lake Superior Copper Region, S. L. Penfield, 
Am. J. Sc, XXX, 112. 
From Stempel near Marburg, optical examination, Stadtliinder, Jabrb. Min., 18H.5, 

II, 97. 
Study of anomalous double refraction, A. Ben-Saude, Comm. Socc Trab. Geol., 
Portugal, I, 15. Pseudomorph after leucite, Sauer, Zs. geol. Ges., xxxvii, 
453. 
Anhydrite. Crystals from Stassfurt, H. Vater, Zs. Kr., x, 390. 
ANTiMOJfT. Occurrence native in York County, New Brunswick, G. F. Kunz, Am. J. 

Sc, xxx, 275, 
Ankehite. Antwerp, N. Y., analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., October 2. 
Annabergite. Silver Cliff, Colorado, Genth, Am. Phil, Soc. Philad., Oct. 2. 
Apatite. Altered to kallaite (turquois), G. Sj. Moore and V. von Zepharovich, Zs. 
Kr., X, 240. 
Zwiesel, Bavaria, variety containing 3 p. c MuO, Sandberger, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 
I, 171. 
Apophyllite. Etching figures, Rinne, Jahrb, Min,, 1885, ii, 19. 

Chester County, Pa., analysis, Knerr and Schoenfeld, Am. Ch. J., vi, 413. 
Arfvedsonite. Relation to crocidolite discussed, Kenngott, Jahrb. Min., 1885, ii, 163. 
Argentobismutite. Lake City, Colorado, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., 

Oct. 2. 
Arsenopyrite. Alabama, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2. 

Dauphiny, analysis, Groth, Ber. Ak. Miinchen, Nov. 7, p. 383. 
Aurichalcite. Laurium, Greece, analysis, Jannettaz, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 43. 

Occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Sc, p. 278, Oct. 5. 
Avalite. New silicate of aluminum and chromium, Losanitsch, Jahrb. Min., 1885, ii, 

409 ref. (Ber. deutsch. cheni. Ges., xvii, 1774.) 
Axinite. Occurrence in Dauphiny, Groth, Ber. Ak, Miinchen, Nov. 7, p, 389, 
AzuRiTE. Clifton, Arizona, crystals described, O. W. Huntington, Proc Anier. Acad. 
Sc, June 10, 1885. Occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad, Sc, Oct. 
5, p, 276. 



MINERALOGY. 7().'> 

Bauitk. Crystals from Komaufeche, Lacroix, Ball. Soc. iliii., viii, .','.». 

Mittelagger, cryst. de8crii)tion, C. Bnsz, Zs. Kr., x, '.Vi. 
Barytocalcite. Relation iu form to calcite, &c., Mallard, Ball. Soc Miii., viii, 44. 
Beegerite. Lake City, Colo., analysis, G. A. Ka?.uig', Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., xxii, 
212. 

Treasury Vault mine, Summit County, Colorado, analysis, Gentli, Am. I'liil. Soc. 
Philad., Oct. 2. 
Beryl. Amelia County, Va., analysis, Baker, Am. Ch. J. vii, 17."). 

Urals, crystals with vicinal planes, &c., F. J. Wiik, Fiusk. Vet. Soc, xxvii. 
BiSMUTiTE. Found at Middletown, Conn., W. N. Rico, Ain. J. Sc, xxix, 2(;3. 
BoRACiTE. Crystalline system considered, Baumhauer, Zs. Kr., x, 431. 
BoRNiTE. From Chloride, New Mexico, microscopically examined, Baiiniliaiicr, Zs. 
Kr., x, 447. 

Formation artificially, Doclter, Zs. Kr., xi, 36. 
BouRXONiTE. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 36. 
BoWLiXGiTE. Partial microscopic examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vui, 97. 
Braunite. Jacobsberg, Sweden, analysis, Igelstrom, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 42L 
Brochantite. Artificial, analyzed, Atanasesco, Bull. Soc Chim., XLiv, 14. 
Brucite. Artificially produced, A. de Schulten, C. E., ci, 72. 

From the Ural, analysis by Rosenblad, Losch, Geol. For. Forh., vii, 733. 

Pennsylvania, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc, Phila., Oct. 2. 
Buty'Rellite. Chemical composition examined, Macadam, Min. Mag., vi, 17.5. 

Calamine. Pulaski Co., Va., analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc Phila., Oct. 2. 
Calcite. Description of crystals from Andreasberg, Sansoni, Zs. Kr.,x, 545. 
Lilac-colored twin-crystals, Solly, Min. Mag., vi, 120. 
Crystals from the Arlberg tunnel, H. v. Foullon, Jahrb. geol. Reichs., xxxv, 

91; from Leobeu, &c. Verb. geol. Reichs., No. 5, p. 149. 
Double refraction discussed and measured, A. Schrauf, Zs. Kr.,xi, 5. 
Var. manganocalcite, analysis, Irom Wester Silfberg, Swe<len, Weibull, Min.petr. 

Mitth.,VH, 110. 
Fusibility of calcium carbonate, A. Becker, Min.petr. Mitth., vii, 122; A. AVich- 
mann, ibid. 256. 
Cappelenite. New mineral from Laugesundsfjord, Norway, Brogger, Geol. For. 

Forh., VII, 599. 
Cassiterite. Complex group of crystals, Cesaro, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 107. 

Occurrence in granite, M. von Miklucho-Maclay, Jahrb. Min., 1885, ii, 88. 
Cerussite. Crystals, Pelsocz-Ard6, Hungary, Schmidt, Zs. Kr., x, 204. 

Occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Sc, p. 278, Oct. 5. 
Chabazite. Var. phacolite, loss of water over CaCIa and HaSO^, Bodewig, Zs. Kr., 

X, 276. 
Chalcocite. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 34. 

Chalcopyrite. Analysis of a related mineral from Snnnerskog, G. Lindstrom, Geol. 
For.Fcirh., vii, 678. 
Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 35. 
Chondroarsexite. Optical examination, Bertrand, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 374. 
Chry.soberyl. Found at Stoneham and elsewhere in Maine, N. H. Perry, Am. J. 

Sc, XXIX, 263. 
Chrysogolla. Occurrence iu Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Sc, Oct. .5, p. 276. 
Chrysolite. Twin crystals in rocks, Kalkovvsky, Zs. Kr., x, 17. 

Nodules in basalt, Becker, Zs. Geol. Ges., xxxvii, 10. 
Cinnabar. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 33. 

CoBALTiTE. Crystallograpbic and thermoelectric characters, Curie, Bull. Soc. Min., 
VIII, 127. 



704 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

COLKJIANITE. CryBtallograpbic descriptiou, A.W.Jackson, Bull. Cal. Acad. Sc, No. 

2; Hiortdalil, Zs. Kr., x, 25; also Arzruni, ib., p. 272. 
Description, crystallograpliic, vom Rath, and chemical, Bode wig, Zs. Kr., x, 179. 
Essentially identical in composition with priceite and pandermite, Kenngott, 

Jahrb. Miu., 1885, i, 241. 
COLUMBITE. Crystal from Craveggia, Italy, Zs. Kr., x, 85 ; Rend. Ace. Line, IV, i, 8. 
CoxNELLiTE. Recently found in Cornwall, Semmons, Miu. Mag., vi, 160; Miers, ib., 

167; Trechmaun, ib., 171. 
CORUNDOPHILITE. Analysis of related mineral from Albemarle Coonty, Va., M. 

Bird, Am. Ch. J., vii, 181. 
Corundum. Optical behavior and micro-structure, A. von Lasaulx, Zs. Kr., x, 346; 

asteriated variety, Baret, Bull. Soc. Min., vii, 438. 
COSAXITE. Ouray County, Colo., analysis, G. A. Koenig, Am. Phil. Soc. Phila., xxu, 

211 ; F. A. Genth, ib., Oct. 2. 
Co\TELLiTE. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 34. 
Crocydolite. Composition discussed, relation to arfvedsonite, Kenngott, Jahrb. 

Min., 1885, II, 163. 
Cryolite. Etching experiments, Baumhauer, Zs. Kr., xi, 133. 
Cuprite. Found near Philadelphia, H. C. Lewis, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad., 120; 

occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Sc, p. 279, Oct. 5. 

Damourite. Stoneham, Me., analysis, F. W. Clarke, Am. J. Sc, xxix, ^79. 
Datolite. Casarza, Liguria, crystals described, Liidecke, Zs. gesammt. Nat., LViii. 
Crystals from the Hirschkopf near Manebach, Liidecke, Zs. Kr., x, 196. 
Analysis, Molinari, Bull. Com. Geol. d'ltalia, vi, 180. 
Variety botryolite, optical properties, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 433. 
Delvauxite. Pseudomorph after gypsnm, Vis6, Belgium, G. Cesi\ro, Ann. Soc. 

Geol. Belg., xii, 192. 
Descloizite. New Mexico, cryst. and chem. examination, F. A. Genth and G. vom 

Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 464: Am. Phil. Soc Philad., April 17. 
Destinezite. Analysis, and shown to be homceomorphous with gypsum, G. Ces^ro, 

Ann. Soc. Geol. Belg., xii, 173. 
Diamond. Brazil, minerals of diamond washings, O. A. Derby, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 70. 
Occurrence in South Africa described in detail, A. Moulle, Ann. Min., VIII, vii, 

193. 
Composite crystals from South Africa, Jannettaz, Bull. Soc Min., viii, 42. 
Observations on hardness of " bort," G. F. Kunz, Am. J. Sc, XXX, .81. 
Diadelphite. Full description, Hj. Sjogren, Zs. Kr., x, 130. 
Diopside. See Pyroxene. 
Dreelite. Relation to barite, Lacroix, Bull. Soc, Miu., vui, 435. 

Enargite. From Butte, Montana, Semmons, Min. Mag., vi, 49, 124. 

Endlichite. An arsenio-vanadate of lead. New Mexico, F. A. Genth and G. vom 

Rath, Zs. Kr., X, 462; Am. Phil. Soc, Phil., April 17. 
Enstatite. Twin crystals (bronzite) in rocks, Fr. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., Vii, 93. 
Epidote. Rowe, Mass., analysis, A.G.Dana, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 455. 

Pargas, Finland, analysis, F. J. Wiik, Finsk. Vet. Soc, xxvii; occurrence in 

Dauphiny, Groth, Ber. Ak. Miinchen, Nov. 7, p. 389. 
Erythrite. Found near Philadelphia, H. C. Lewis, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc Philad., 

1885, p. 120 ; occurrence in Nevada and California, W. P. Blake, Am. J. Sc, XXX, 

163. 

Fairfieldite. Found at Raben.stein, Bavaria (Leucomanganiie), Sandberger, Jahrb. 

Min., 1885, i, 185. 
Fayaxite. Crystals described from the Yellowstone Park, also analysis, J. P. Id- 
dings and S. L. Penfield, Am. J. pSc, xxx, 58. 
Probable occurrence in Colorado, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Sc, XXIX, 250. 



MINERALOGY. 705 

FiCHTELiTE. In crystals in a. peat bed at Salzenrleich, M. Schuster, Min. petr. Mitth. 

VII, 88. 
Fluorite. Variation of refractive indices with boat, Dufo-t, Bull. Soc. Min., viii,257. 

Experiments on Elasticity, Voigt, Jabrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., iv, 236. 

On Vesnvian lava, E. Scacchi, Keud. Ace. Sc. Napoli, December. 
Franklinite. Etching figures, F. Becke, Min. petr. Mittb., vii, 224. 

Gahxite. From Rowe, JRiss., analysis. A. G. Dana, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 455. 

Galenite. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 33, 41. 

Galenobismutite. Containing selenium, from Sweden, Weibull, Geol. For. Forh.," 

VII, 659; F. A. Genth, Am. Phil. Soc, Pbilad., Oct. 2. 
Garnet. Various results of alteration, Catbrein, Zs. Kr., x, 433. 
Gearksutite. Ivigtut, Greenland, analysis (Lindstrom), Nordenskiold, Geol. For. 

Forh.^ VII, 684. 

Gexthite. Found near Philadelphia, H. C. Lewis, Proc Acad. Nat. Sc Pbilad., p. 120. 

Gerhardtite. New basic cupric nitrate, from Arizona, H. L. Wells and S. L. Pen- 
field, Am. J. Sc, XXX, 50. 

Glauconite. Chester County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Knerr and Schcenfeld, Am. 
Ch. J., VI, 412. 

GoxniTE. Vicinal planes on crystals, from Cornwall, Palla, Z.s. Kr., xi, 23. 
From Cbizeuil and Romanecbe, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Miu., viii, 41. 

Graphitoid. Amorphous carbon from the schists of the Erzgebirge, Saner, Zs. geol. 
Ges., xxxvii, 441. 

Gypsum. Crystallographic note, Cesaro, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 317. 

Halite. Experiments on elasticity, Voigt, Jabrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., iv, 232. 
Haxksite. New sulpbato-carbonate of sodium from California, W. E. Hidden, Am. 
J. Sc.,xxx, 133; N. Y. Acad. Sc, iii, 238. 
Crystal described and analyzed, E. S. Dana and S. L. Penfield, Am. J. Sc, 
XXX, 136. 
Haumotome. Scotland, twin crystals, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 94, 

Twin crystals from Andreasberg, Kloos, Jabrb. Min., 1885, ii, 212, 
Harrixgtoxite. Not a homogeneous mineral, but consisting of a gelatinous jiaste 
inclosing crystals and fragments of several species, Lacroix, Bull. Soc Min., 
viii, 96, 
Hauerite. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 32. 
Hemafibrite. Full description, Hj. Sjogren, Zs. Kr., X, 126. 

Hematostibiite. New mineral from Sweden, Igelstrom, Bull, Soc. Min., viii, 143. 
Hematite. Artificial crystals, H. Vater, Zs. Kr., X, 391. 

Earthy variety artificially produced, Meunier, C. R., ci, 889. 
IIerderite. Composition discussed, Des Cloizeaux and Damour, Bull. Soc Min., 

VIII, 3. 

Hkulajtdite. Lancaster County, Pa., analysis, Knerr and Schoenfeld, Am, Cb. J,, 
VI, 413. 

Hisingerite (Manganhisingerite). From Wester Silfberg, Sweden, analysis, Wei- 
bull, Min., petr. Mitth., VIX, 113, , 

II<)KXBLE>iDE. See Amphibole. 

Huli-ite. Examined microscopically, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., a'iii, 432. 

IIvDROCERUSSiTE. Occurrence in Scotland, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 35, 

Hydrogiobertite. New bydrated carbonate of magnesium, E. Scacchi, Rend. Ace. 
Sc. Napoli, December. 

Hypersthene. Crystals of rhombic pyroxene firom Mdlnfis, Transylvania, Schmidt, 
Zs. Kr., X, 210. 

Ice. Elasticity measured, K, R. Koch, Wied. Ann., xxv, 438. 
Idrogiobertite. See Hydrogiobertite, 
H. Mis. lo 45 



TOG SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Igelstromitk (Eiseukiicbolite). From Wester Sill'berg. Sweden, ;m;ily«is, \\'inljull, 

Miu. petr. Mittli, vii, 112. 
lODYRiTE. Crystals from New Mexico, F. A. Genth and G. vom Rath, Za. Kr., x, 

473; Am. Phil. Soc, Philad., April 17. 
Dimorphism of silver iodide, Mallar-i and Chatelier, J. Phys. , II, iv, 305. 
loLiTE. Occurrence as a coustitueut of rocks, Ilnssak, Jahrb. Miu., 1885, ii, 81. 

Jamesonite. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 40. 
JOSEITE. Brazil, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc, Philad., Oct. 2. 

KiRWANiTE. Examined microscopically, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Miu., viii, 428. 
Knebelite. Dauuemora, Sweden, analysis, etc., Weibull, Oefv. Ak. Stockh, xlii, 

No. 2, 3. See also Igelstkomite. 
KoBELLiTE. Analysis of variety from Colorado containing no antimony and 5 to 

6 per cent, silver, H. F. and H. A. Kellar, Journ. Am. Chem. Soc, vii, 194. 
Lavenite. New mineral from Langesundsfiord, Norway, Brogger, Geol. For. Forh., 

VII, 598. 
Lead. Artificial crystallized silicate, E. S. Dana and S. L. Penfield, Am. J. Sc, 

XXX, 38. 
Leucite. Eflect of heat upon position of twinning lamellye, Rosenbusch, Jahrb. 

Miu., 1885, II, 59. See also Klein, ibid., p. 234. 
Altered to orthoclase Vesuvius, E. Scacchi, Reud. Ace. Sc. Napoli, December. 
Pseudomorphs in the leucitophyr of theErzgehirge. Sauer, Zs. geol. Ges.,xxxvii, 

448. 
Pseudomorphs (?) from Magnet Cove, Ark., G. F. Kunz, Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sc. 1885. 
LiXARiTE. Comparison of measurements by himself and by V. Jeremejew, von Koks- 

charow, Miu. Rnsslaud, ix, 268. 
LiNNiEiTE. Etching figures, F. Becke, Miu. petr. Mitth., vii, 225. 

Magnetite. Etching figures, F. Becke, Miu. petr. Mitth., vii, 200, 

Coutaining traces of vanadium, E. Claassen, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 349 ; Am. Ch. .T., 

vii, 349. 
From Sweden, containing mangauesc, M. Weibull, Min. petr. Mitth., vii, 109. 
Malachite. Occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Sc, Oct. 5, p. 275. 
Marcasite. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 31. 
Martite. Occurrence near Rittersgriin , Saxony, Schalch, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., 

IV, 189. 
Mellite. Specific heat, Bartoli and Stracciati, Bull. Com. Geol. d'ltalia, vi. 
Menaccanite. Analysis of titauic iron sand from Brazil, J. B. Mackintosh, Am. 
J. Sc, xxix, 342. 
Carter's Mine, N. C, ^.nalysis, Keller, Am. Phil. Soc Philad., Oct. 2. 
Lancaster County, Pa., analysis, Kuerr aud Erunuer, Am. Ch. J., vi, 413. 
Mercury. Found native in Louisiana, E. Wilkinson, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 280. 
Metacinnabarite. From California in tetrahedral crystals like sphalerite, also anal- 
ysis, S. L. Peutield, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 452. 
Miargyritej Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 39. 
Mica. Varieties from Branchville, Conn., analyzed, Eammelsberg, Jahrb. Miu., 1885, 

II, 225. 
Microlite. Transparent crystal from Viiginia, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Sc. xxx, 82. 

Optically isotrope, Hintze, Zs. Kr., x, 86. 
MiLARiTE. Optical examination, Eiune, Jahrb. Min., 1885, n, 1. 
Monazite. Crystals from Cornwall examined, Miers, Min. Mag., vi, 64. 
Found at Middletown, Conn., W. N. Rice, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 263. 
Sands from Brazil, Gorceix, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 32. 
Muscovite. Wakefield, Canada, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc, Philad., Oct. 2. 



MINERALOGY. 70? 

Natkolite. From Steinpel, uear Marbnrg, crystallographic exauiiuatioii, Stadtliindftr, 

Jahrb. Min., 1885, ii, 113. 
Nepaulite. India, shown to be tetrahedrite, F. R. Mallet, Records Geol, Siirv. India, 

XVIII, '235. 
Nephelite. Results of accurate measurements, v. Kokscharow, Min. Rnsslands, ix, 

247. 
Nephrite. Jordansmiibl, Silesia, occurrence and composition, Traube, Jahrb. Min. 

Beil.-Bd., Ill, 412; ib., 1885, ii, 91; see also Kenngott, ib., i, 23?. 

Tasmania, analysis, Bodewig, Zs. Kr,, x, 86. 
NoCERiNE. Chemical investigation, E. Fischer, Zs. Kr., x, 270. 

OcTAHEDEiTE, Binneuthal, Switzerland, crystal examined, Ces^ro, Bull. Soc. Min., 
VIII, 396. 
Crystal from near Oberhof, Thurii^ia, Luedecke, Zs. Kr., x, 200. 
Occurrence in Dauphiny, Groth, Ber. Ak. Miinchen, Nov. 7, p. ;?96. 
Oligoclasi;. Optical examination, Des Cloizeaux and Pisaui, Bull. Soc. Min., 

VIII, 6. 
Olivine. See Chrysolite. 
Orthite. See Allanite. 

Orthoclase. Var. Adular, crystals with new planes, Cathrein, Zs. Kr., xi, 113. 
Composite crystal, Zs. Kr., x, 489. 

Var. Sauidine, comparison of measurements by himself and by Striiver, v. Koks- 
charow, Min. Russlands, ix, 252. 
Crystals in druses in basalt, Zepharovich, Zs. Kr., x, 601 ; Ber. Ak. Wien, xci, 158. 
Twin crystals from Four-la-Brouque, Puy de DOme, Gonnard, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 

307. 
Chester County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2. 
Pseudomorph after leucite, Vesuvius, Scacchi Rend. Ace. Sc. Napoli, December; 
from the Erzgebirge, Zs. Geol. Ges., xxxvii, 456. 

Parisite. Note on a large crystal, G. de Grandmaison, Min. Mag., vi, 123. 
Pectolite. Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Knerr and E. F. Smith, Am. 

eh. J., VI, 411. 
Perofskite. From the Wiesenthal, Erzgebirge, Sauer, Zs. geol. Ges., xxxvii, 445. 
Phenacite. Crystals from El Paso County, Colorado, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Sc, 

XXIX, 249. 
Prehnite. Occurrence in the Erzgebirge, Schalch, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., iv, 179. 
Phillipsite. From Stempel, near Marburg, crystallographic description, Stadtliinder, 

Jahrb. Min., 1885, II, 122. 
Phlogopite. Templeton, Canada, inclusions studied, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 99. 
Pinnoite. New borate from Stassfurt, Stante, Ber. d. chem. Ges., xvii, 1584, 1884. 
Plumbocalcite. Examination of crystals from Scotland, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., 

. viii, 35. 
PoLYARSENiTE. New arseniate of manganese from Sweden, Igelstrom, Bull. Soc. 

Min., viii, 369; the same examined optically, Bertrand, ib., p. 374. 
POLYBASiTE. Terrible Lode, Clear Creek County, Colorado, analysis, Genth, Am. 

Phil. Soc, Philad., Oct. 2. 
Priceite. See Colemanite. 

Proustite. Crj'st. monograph, Rethwisch, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., rv, 31. 
P YR ARGTf rite. Cryst. monograph, Rethwisch, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., iv., 31. 
Pyrite. Crystallographic and thermo-electric characters. Curie, Bull. Soc. Min., 

VIII, 127. 
Crystals from Dauphiny, Groth, Ber. Ak. Miinchen Nov. 7, p. 378. 
Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., xi, 30. 



708 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885 

Pyeoxeni:. Var. diopsidc, Noidruark, Sweden, crystallograpLic aud optical oxaui- 

ination, Fliuk, OetV. Ak. Stockli., XLii, No. 2, 29. 
Crystal of diopside from Zennatt, Streng, Jahrb. Min., 1885, i, 238. 
Twin crystals in rocks, Fr. lieckc, Min. petr. Mittb., vii, 98. 
Relation between optical characters and chemical composition, Doelter, Jahrb. 

Min., 1885, I, 43. 
Minute crystals in tachylyte, Kronstchoff, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 85. 
Augites from the Kaiserstuhlgebirge, analyses, A. Knop, Zs. Kr., x, 58. 
Var. diallage in gabbro, analyses, etc., Svedmark, Geol. For. Forh., vii, 811. 
Fusion experiments, Becker, Zs. Geol. Ges., xxxvii, 10. 

Quartz. Remarkable crystals from North Carolina, G. vom Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 156, 475. 
Composite crystals from Albermarle County, Va., W. G. Brown, Am, J. Sc, xxx, 

191; O. W. Huntington, Proc. Amer. Acad. Sc, June 10, 1885. 
Effect of pressure on rotatory power, Jannettaz, Bull. Soc. Min., Vlir, 168. 
Variation of refractive indices with heat, Dufet, ib., 171. 

Rhodonite (Eisenrhodonite) from Wester Silfberg, Sweden, analysis, Weibull. Min. 

petr. Mitth., vii, 117. 

Crystals described from Pajsberg and Langban, Sweden, G. Flink, Oefv. Ak. 
Stockholm, XLii, 6, 159, June 10. 
Ripidolite. Var clinochlore, Mussa Alp, composition, Jannasch, Jahrb. Min., i, 92. 
RuTiLE. Binnenthal, crystallographic examination, Rinne, Jahrb. Min., 1885, it, 20. 

Occurrence in granite, M. von Miklucho-Maclay, Jahrb. Min., 1885, ii, 88. 

Safflorite. Analysis, and relation to smaltite, L. W. McCay, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 

369, 496. 
Sarkinite. New manganese arseniate from Pajsberg, A. Sjogren, Geol. For. Fiirh., 

vii. 724. 
Scapolite. Composition of group discussed, Rammelsberg, Ber. Ak. Berlin, xxx, 

589. 
ScoLEZiTE. Pyroelectricity described, C. Friedel and A. de Gramont, Bull. Soc. Min., 

VIII, 75. 
Serpentine. Var. chrysotile, Shipton, Canada, analysis, E. G. Smith, Am. J. Sc, 

XXIX, 32 ; do. Terrell, Bull. Soc. Chim., XLlli, 217. 
Penn., Keller, Am. Phil. Soc, Philad., Oct. 2. 
SiLFBERGiTE. From Wester Silfberg, Sweden, analysis, Weibull, Min. petr. Mitth., 

VII, 115. 
Silver. Found native in New Jersey, N. H. Darton, Am. J. Sc, xxx, 80. 
Spinel. Etching figures, F. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., vii, 224. 
Spodiosite. Relation to wagnerite, A. Sjogren. Geol. For. Forh., vii, 666. 
Spodumene. Black Hills, Dakota, occurrence of large crystals, W. P. Blake, Am. 

J. Sc, XXIX, 71. 
Staurolite. Analysis, discussion of composition, W. Friedl, Zs. Kr., x, 360. 
Stephanite. Description of a crystal from Mexico, G. vom Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 173. 
Stilbite. Berks County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Davidson ; do,, Hoskinson aud 

Brunner, Am. Ch. J., vi, 414. 
Stilpnomelane. Antwerp, New York, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc Philad., Oct. 2. 
Strontianite. Strontian, Argyllshire, Scotland, analysis. Macadam, Min. Mag., VI, 

173. 
Strexgite. Artificially produced, A. de Schulten, C. R., June 15. 
Struvite. Crystals from Homburg, Kalkowsky, Zs. Kr., xi, 1. 
Svanbergite. Occurrence at Horrsjoberg, Sweden, Igelstrom, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 

424. 
Synabelphite. Full description, Hj. Sjogren, Zs. Kr., x, 143. 



MINERALOGY. 709 

Tetradymite. Composition discussed, P. A. Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad.j Oct. 2. 
Tetrahedrite. Crystals from Colorado, Liweh, Zs. Kr., X, 488. 

Lake City, Colo., analysis, Guntb, Am. Phil. Soc. Pliilad., Oct. 2. 
TiEMANNiTE. Froni Utah, in tetrahedral crystals (like sphalerite), also analysis, S. L. 

Peufield, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 449. 
Tin, NATIVE. From New South Wales, with platinum, etc., F. A. Gonth, Am. Phil. 

Soc. Philad., Oct. 2. 
TiTANiTE. From Lewis County, New York, apparent cleavage due to twinning, G. 
H. Williams, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 486. 
Occurrence (and analysis) with other minerals in the District of Columbia, G. P. 

Merrill, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 351, 1885. 
Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Knerr and E. F. Smith, Am. Ch. J., vi, 

412. 
Statesville, N. C, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2. 
Topaz. Ci"ystal from Alabaschka in the Ural, Griinhut, Zs. Kr.,x, 263. 

Discussion of paper by Griinhut (Zs, Kr.,ix, 113), with additional lists of angles, 

V. Kokscharow, Min. Russlands, ix, 97. 
Urals, crystals with vicinal planes, etc., F. J. Wiik, Oefv. Fiusk. Vet. Soc, xxvii. 
Pyro-electricity, Friedel and Curie, Bull. Soc. Min., vin, 16. 

Stoneham, Me., examination, also of alteration products, F. W. Clarke and J. S. 
Diller, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 378; analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2. 
Tourmaline. Investigation of Pyro-electricity, Eiecke, Nachr. k, Ges. Wiss. Gottiu- 

gen, Dec. 30, p. 405. 
Tridymite. Crystals from Krakatau, G. vom Rath, Zs. Kr.,x, 174. 
TURQUOIS. General description, von Kokscharow, Min. Russlands, ix, 83. 

Pseudomoi'ph after apatite, G. E. Moore and V. von Zepharovich, Zs. Kr., x, 240. 

UiNTAHiTE. A variety of asphaltum from the Uintah Mountains, Utah, W. P. Blake, 

Eng. & Mining J., Dec 26. 
Uraninite. Found in Black Hills, Dakota, L. W. Stillwell, Am. J. Sc, xxx, 82. 

Vanadinite. Crystals from New Mexico, analyzed and described, F. A. Genth and G. 

vom Rath, Zs. Kr., X, 460 ; Am. Phil. Soc. Phila., April 17. 
Wanlockhead, Scotland, Analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc, Phila., Oct. 2. 
Vesuvianite. Discussion of measurements by himself, Zepharovich, and others, with 

lists of calculated angles, N. Kokscharow, Miss Russlands, ix, 150. 

Wad. From Wester Silfberg, Sweden, analysis, Weibull, Min. petr. Mitth,, vii. 

Xenotime. Crystals from El Paso County, Colorado, W. E, Hidden, Am. J. Sc, xxix, 
249. 

Zeolites. Discussion of the optical properties, pyrognostics, &c., of the various 
species of the group with a view to developing the methods of distinguishing 
between them, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Minn., viii, 321. 
Zircon. Crystal with iP from Burgess, Canada, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Sc xxix, 250. 
Chemical examination, Linneniann, Ch. News, Liii, 220,2.33,240. 

EXPLANATIONS OF ABBREVIATIONS EMPLOYED. 

Am. Ch. J. — American Chemical Jcurnal, Baltimore. 
Ann. Ch. Phya. — Annales de Chimio et de Physique, Paris. 
Am. J. Sc. — American Journal of Science, New Haven. 
Ann. Mill. — Annales des Mines, Paris. 

Am. Phil. Soc. Philad. — American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia. Proceedings. 
Per. Ak. Berlin. — Sitzungsberichte der kais. preuss. Akadcmje lU'.r Wissenschafteu, 
Perlin. 



710 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Ber. Ah. Munchen. — Sitzungsberichte der kais, bayerischen Akademie der Wisscuscliaf- 

ten, Munich. 
Ber. Ak. TFien.— Sitzungsberichte der kais. Akademie der Wisseuschaften, Vienna. 
Ber. d. chem. Ges. — Berichte der deutscheu chemischen Gesellschaft, Berlin. 
Boll. Com. Geol. — Bolletino Comitato Geologico d' Italia, Rome. 
Bull. Cal. Acad. Sc. — Bulletin of the California Academy of Science. 
Bull. Soc. Ch. — Bulletin de la Society chimique, Paris. 
Bull. Soc. ^tm.— Bulletin de la Soci^t6 min^ralogique de France, Paris. 
Ch. News. — Chemical News, London. 

C. R. — Comptes Rendus de FAcad^iuie des Sciences, Paris. 
Eng, Mill. J. — Engineering and Mining Journal, New York. 
Geol. For. Fork. — Geologiska Foreniug i Stockholm Forhandlingar. 
Jalirb. geol. JReichs. — Jahrbuch des k. k. geologischen Reichsanstalt, Vienna. 
Jahrh. Min. — Neues Jahrbuch fiir Minoralogie, e.tc. 

Journ. Am. Ch. Soc. — Journal of the American Chemical Society, New York. 
J. Phys. — Journal de Physique, Paris. 
Min. Mag. — Mineralogical Magazine and Journal of the Mineralogical Society of 

Great Britain. 
Min. petr. Miith. — Mineralogische und petrographische Mittheilungen gesammelt von 

G. Tschermak, Vienna. 
N. Y. Acad. Sci. — New York Academy of Sciences. 

Oefv. Ak. Stockh. — Oefversigt af k. Vet. Akad. Forhandlingar, Stockholm. 
TVied. Ann. — Auualen der Physik und der Cheniie, Wiedemann, Leipzig. 
Zs. geol. Ges. — Zeitschrift der deutscheu geologischen Gesellschaft, Berlin. 
Zs. gesammt. Wiss. — Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Wisseuschaften, Halle. 
Zs. Kr. — Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie, etc. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MINERALOGY— 1885. 

I. — Mineralogical Works. 

Brezina, a. Die IVteteoritensammlung des k. k. mineralogischen Hofkabinetes in 
Wien am 1. Mai 1885. pp. 151-276, with 3 plates (Jahrb. geol. Reichsanstalt, vol. 

XXXV). 

Groth, Paul. Physikalische Krystallographie und Einleitung in die krystallo- 
graphische Kenntniss der wichtigeren Substanzen. 2te Auflage. 710 pp. 8vo. 
Leipzig, 1885. 

Hanks, H. G. Fiffch Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 235 pp., 
8vo. Sacramento. 

Hatle. Die Minerale des Herzogthums Steiermark, Graz. 

Haushofer, K. Mikroskopische Reactionen. Eine Anleituug zur Erkennuug ver- 
schiedener Elemente und A'^erbindungen unter dem Mikroskop als Supplement zu 
den Methoden der qualitativen Analyse. Braunschweig. 

HiRSCHWALD, J. Das mineralogische Museum der kgl. technischen Hochschule Ber- 
lin. 243 pp. 8vo. Berlin. 

Hussak-Smith. The Determination of Rock-forming Minerals, by E. Hussak; trans- 
lated by E. G. Smith. 233 pp. 8vo. New York. 

KoKSCHAROW, N. VON. Miueralogie Russlands. Vol. ix, pp. 81-272. 

Naumann-Zirkkl. Elemente der Mineralogie begriindet von Carl Friedrich Nau- 
manu. Zwolfte vollstandig neu bearbeitete uud ergiinzte Auflage von Ferdinand 
Zirkel. 782 pp. 8vo. Leipzig. 



MINERALOGY. 711 

ROSENBUSCH, H. Mikroskopische Physiographie der Miueialien unci Gesteiue. Ein 
Hiilfsbuch bei mikroskopisclien Gesteinsstudien. I. Band. Die petrographisch 
wichtigen Mineralien. Zweite giinzlich nmgearbeitete Auflage. Stuttgart. 

TSCHERMAK, G. Lehrbuch der Mineralogie. 2te Auflage. 597 pp. 8vo. Vienna, 

1885. 

II. — Memoirs of a general character, chiefly physical. 

Becke, F. Aetzversuche an Mineralien der Magnetitgruppe. Min. petr. Mittb., vii, 

200. 
Beckenkamp, H. Zur Bestimmug der Elasticitatsconstanteu von Krystallen. Zs. 

Kr., X, 41. 
Becker, A. Ueber die Schmelzbarbeit des kohlensauren Kalkes. Min. petr. Mitth. , 

VII, 122, 256. 
Bektrand, E. Nouvelles dispositions du microscope permettant de mesurer I'^carte- 

ment des axes optiques et les indices de r6fraction. Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 377. 
Sur la mesure des indices de refraction des 61€ments microscopiques des roches. 

Ibid., p. 426. 
Blasius, E. Zersetzungsfiguren an Kjystallen. Zs. Kr., x, 221. 

Die Ausdebnung der Krystalle durcb die Wiirme. Zs. Kr., xi, 140. 
Brauns, R. Einige Beobacbtungen und Bemerkungen zur Beurtbeilung optiscb 

anomaler KrystaUe. Jabrb. Min., i, 96. 
Cross and Hillebrand. Contributions to tbe Mineralogy of tbe Rocky Mountains, 

by Wbitman Cross and W. F. Hillebrand, 113 pp., Bvo., with 1 plate. (Bulletin 

of the U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 20.) 
CuKiE, P. Sur la formation des cristaux et sur les constautes capillaires de leurs faces. 

Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 145. 
Dana, E. S. A Crystallographic Study of the Thinolite of Lake Lahontan, 28 pp., 

8yo, with 3 plates. (Bulletin of the U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 12.) 
Danker, J. Experimentelle Priifung der aus den Fresnel'scheu Gesetzen der Dop- 

pelbreehung abgeleitelen Gesetze der Totalreflexion. Jabrb. Min., Beil. Bd. 

IV, pp. 241-290. 
Doelter, C. Ueber die Abhiiugigkeit der optischen Eigenschaften von der cbem- 

ischen Zusammensetzung beim Pyroxen. Jabrb. Min., i, 43. 
DuFET, H. Recherches exp6rimentales sur la variation des indices de refraction sous 

I'influence de la chaleur. Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 176. 
Sur la loi de Gladstone et la variation de I'indice mol6culaire. Ibid., viii, 406. 
Irving and Vanhise. Secondary enlargement of mineral fragments in certain 

rocks, .56 pp., 8vo, with 6 plates. (Bulletin of the U. S. Geol. Survey, No. H.) 
Lacroix, a. Sur le diagnostic des z(§olitbes en I'absence de formes cristallines d6- 

terminables. Bull. Soc. Min., vin, 321. 
Lehmann, O. Mikrokrystallographische Untersuchungen, x, 321. 
LIEBISCH, H. Ueber die Totalreflexion an doppeltbrechenden Krystallen. Jabrb, 

Min., II, 181. 
Mallard, E. Sur la th^orie des macles. Bull. Soc. Min., vin, 452. 
MiJGGE, O. Zur Keimtnissderdurchsecundare Zwillingsbilduugbewirkten Flachen- 

Verschiebungen. Jabrb. Min., ii, 44. 
Reicke, E. Ueber die Pyro-elektricitiit des Turmalins. Nachr. k. Ges. Wiss. Giit- 

tingen, Dec. 30, 1885, p. 405. 
ScHRAUF, A. Ueber die Azimuthdiffereuz doppeltbrechender Strahleu. Beobacb- 
tungen am Calcit. Zs. Kr., xi, 5. 
VoiGT, W. Erklarung der Farbenerscheinung pleochroitscher Krystalle. Jabrb. 

Min., I, 119. 
Neue Bestimmungen der Elasticitatsconstanteu ttir Steinsalz und Flusspath. 

Ibid., Beil.-Bd. iv, 228. 



712 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188D. 

Websky, M. Ueber die Ein- und Mebideutigkeit der Fundamental -Bcigeu-Com- 
plexe fiir die Elemeute mouokliuischer Krystall-Gatlungeu. Jabrb. Min., i, 79. 

WULFF, L. Waclisen der Krystalle nur durcli Juxtaj)Osition neiier Molekeln. Zs. Kr., 
X, 374. 
Krystallisatiou in Bewegung. Zs. Kr., xi, 120. 

Wyrouboff, G. Quelques considerations sur I'isomerie et le polymorpMsme. Bull, 
Soc. Min., VIII, 398. 

NECROLOGY OF MINERALOGISTS : 1885. 

E. E. SCHMID. — Born May 22, 1815, at Hildburgbausen ; died at Jena February, 1885; 
for many year« professor at Jena. His work was largely in geology, but be made 
many contributions to mineralogy, cbiefly of a cbemical nature. 

Benjamin Silliman. — Born December 4, 1816; died January 14, 1885; professor of 
cbeuiistry in Yale College, New Haven, Conn. He was an editor of tbo American 
Journal of Science for nearly fifty years ; autbor of works on cbemistry and i)bysics 
and of many papers upon American minerals, especially the minerals of tbe Wtst- 
ern States and Territories 



f 



RECOED OF NOETH AMEEICAN INVEETEBEATE PALEON- 
TOLOGY. 



By John Belknap Marcou. 



INTRODUCTORY NOTE. 

The same general plan has been followed as last year, although the 
scoi)e of the work has beeu somewhat enlarged so as to include also re- 
views and bibliographic notices of palseoutologic works ; mere mentions 
of works by title hav^e not been referred to. I have experienced some 
difficulty in getting hold of all the recent publications in time for inser- 
tion in this record, and there are doubtless some omissions. I shall be 
much obliged if those who notice them will call my attention to them 
so that they may be inserted next year. I wish to thank all those who 
have kindly aided me in collecting this material, and especially Mr. H. 
M. Ami, of the Canadian Survey, and Mr. C E. Beecher, of the New 
York Stat'e Museum at Albany. 

Aldrich, T. H. — Notes on the Tertiary of Alabama and Mississipi)i 

with descriptions of new species. Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., 

vol. VIII, pp. 145-153, pis. ii, iii (pars). July, 1885. Cincinnati. 

Describes and illustrates a number of new species from the Eocene ; 

mostly from the Red Bluff' formation of the Vicksburg group. Solecur- 

tus vicksburfiensis, Miirex {Pteronotus) angelus, Pleurotoma {Surcula) lon()i- 

forma, P. Ueilprini, P. anita, Turbinella [Garicella] reticulata, Cassi-i 

(Semicassis) shuhutensis, Stroinhus [Canariitm) Snnthii, Scaphander jyrimu.s, 

Triton {Simpulum) conradianns, Buccinum vickshurgensifi, Connn [Conor- 

bis) alatoideus, Fasciolaria jacksonensis, Turritella belli/era, Cerithium 

Langdoni, Triforis americanus, Fukuh pcarlensis, Scalaria WItitJicl-'i, 

Cassidaria brevideniata, C. dubia. 

Aldrich, T. H. — Notes on Tertiary Eossils, rare, or little known. Jour. 
Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vrii, pp. 153-155, pi. iii (pars). July, 
1885. Cincinnati. 

These illustrated notes on Eocene shells are given with the hope of 
correcting some errors, shedding light upon obscure forms and record- 
ing the European species mentioned. The author intends to continue 

.them with notes on s^^nonomy. 

7i:? 



7.14 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

Aldrich, T. H. — Observations upon the Tertiary of Alabama. Amer. 
Jour. 8cL, 3d ser., vol. xxx, pp. 300-308. October, 1885. New 
Haven. 

The results of a personal examination of the Tertiary of Alabama 
are given so far as is necessary to reply to Dr. Meyer's papers ; his 
quotations and views are also criticised and corrected, (^ee Meyer, 
Otto.) 

Ami, H. M. — List of Fossils from Ottawa and Vicinity. Ottawa Field 
Naturalists' Club Trans., No. 5, vol. ii, No. i, pp. 54-62. 1884. Ottawa. 

Gives lists of fossils from the following formations : Cambro-Silurian 
system, Chazy formation, Bii'd's Eye and Black River formation, Tren- 
ton formation, Utica formation, — Post-Tertiary, Leda clay, and Saxi- 
cava sand, alluvium (shell marl deposit). 

Am, H. M. — Additional Notes on the Geology and Palieoutology of Ot- 
tawa and Vicinity. Ottawa Field Naturalists^ Club Trans., No. 6, vol. 
II, No. ii, pp. 251-259. 1885. Ottawa. 

Anon. — The Oldest Air-breathers. Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. xxvii, pp. 
395-400, figs. 1-5, and pp. 397, 399, and 400. July, 1885. New York. 

An account of the oldest fossil insects; the facts and illustrations are 
borrowed from the French and English scientitic journals. 

Anon. — Proceedings of the section of Geology and Geography. Science, 
vol. VI, No. 136, p. 220. 1885. Cambridge. 

Science's report of the proceedings of the meeting of the A. A. A. S. 
at Ann Arbor. 

Three discoveries of fossils were announced. Prof. N. H. Winchell 
brought from the pipe-stone quarry of Minnesota a contorted trilobite of 
the Paradoxides type and slabs of sandstone covered with round phos- 
phatic brachiopods referred provisionally to Lingula. Prof. W. B. 
Dwight reported the discovery of a unique Potsdam locality one mile 
northwest of Vassar College and in the Wappinger limestone belt. 
Prof. J. D. Dana exhibited Silurian fossils taken at Canaan, N. Y., from 
the sparry limestone of Emmons, a member of his original Taconic sys- 
tem as first defined by him in 1842. Prof. James Hall said that the 
existence of Silurian fossils in these rocks was claimed and admitted 
forty years ago, and Prof. N. H. Winchell argued that Emmous's later 
use of the title "Taconic," in which he applied it to certain rocks in 
New York, now known to be pre-Silurian, entitled the name to a place 
in stratigraphic nomenclature. 

Bain, Francis, and Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — Notes on the Geology and 
Fossil Flora of Prince Edward Island. Canadian Rec. Sci., vol. i 
(1884-'85), pp. 154-161, figs. 1 and 2, on pp. 160 and 161. 1885. 
Montreal. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALJiONTOLOGY. 715 

Commimicated to the Eoyal Society of Canada at its meeting in Ot- 
tawa, May, 1885. Sir William Dawson describes the new species Wal- 
chia imhricatula from the Trias ; Sir William concludes that Mr. Bain's 
lower series is distinctly permo-Carboniferous ; that its extent is con- 
siderably greater than was supposed in 1871 ; that there is a well char- 
acterized overlying Trias, and that the intermediate series, whether 
Permian or Lower Triassic, is of somewhat difficult local definition; but 
that its fossils, so far as they go, lean to the Permian side. 

Beecher, C E. — List of Species of Fossils from an Exposure of the Utica 
slate and associated rocks within the limits of the city of Albany. 
Thirty-sixth Rep. Neio York State Mus. ISfat. Hist., p. 78. 1884. Al- 
bany. 

Billings, W. E. — Two new species of Crinoids. Ottawa Field Natural- 
ists' Cluh Trans., No. 6, vol. ii, No. ii, pp. 248-250, ])1. i. 1885. Ot- 
tawa. 

Describes and figures Archaeocrinus desideratus and Euspirocrinus 
ohconicus from the Trenton. 

Billings, W. E. — Eeport of the Palaeoutological Branch. Ottawa Field 
Naturalists' Club Trans., No. 6, vol. ii, No. ii, pp. 259-262. 1885. Ot- 
tawa. 

A large number of additions, hitherto not recorded, are mentioned 
from the Cambro-Silurian rocks about Ottawa. 

Britton, N. L. — Cretaceous Plants from Staten Island. Trans. N. Y. 
Acad. ScL, vol. V, 1885-'86, pp. 28-29. November, 1885. New York. 

Notes the discovery by Messrs. H. Hollick, W. T. Davis, and himself 
of fossil leaves in the Cretaceous clays at Kreischerville, Staten Island. 
The specimens were obtained from a stratum of lignitic clay about 18 
inches in thickness, and included angiosperms and conifers. 

Britton, N. L., and Hollick, Arthur. — Leaf-bearing Sandstones on 
Staten Island, New York. Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. ill, 1883-'S4, 
pp. 30, 31. 1885. New York. 

Dr. Britton considers the sandstones of Cretaceous age, although the 
fossils are insufficient for proper determination. Similar fossiliterous 
sandstones occur on the beaches about Glen Cove, Long Island, and 
vicinity. 

Brongniart, Charles. — Les Insectes Fossiles des Terrains Primaires, 
Coup d'fleil rapide sur la faune ' entomologique des terrains paleo- 
zoiques. Btilletin de la Societe des Amis des Sciences Naturelles de 
Rouen, 3® s6rie, Vingt et unieme annee, l'''^ semestre, 1885, pp. 50- 
68, pis. i-iii. 1885. Eouen. 

American as well as European forms are discussed in this review of 
Palaeozoic insects. Some new forms are named, but they are all from 
Conimentry. 



716 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

Bkongniakt, Charles. — The Fossil luscets of the Primary Eocks : A 
llapid Survey of the Eutomological Faima of the Palfeozoic Period. 
Geol. Mag., New Series, Decade III, vol. ii, pp. 481-491, pi. xii. Novem- 
ber, 1885. Loiidon. 

Trau slated and read before the Manchester Geological Society, Octo 
ber G, ]885, by Maik Stirrup, F. Ct. S., Hon. Sec. Eevised and reprinted 
by jiermission of the author and translator, with a plate from the Bul- 
letin de la Societe des Amis des Seienees Naturelles de Rouen (ann^e, 
1885, 1'^'^ semestre). The article contains discussions of the American as 
well as of the European forms. 

Call, R. E. — On the Quaternary and recent Mollusca of the Great 

Basin, with descriptions of new forms. Introduced by a sketch of 

the Quaternary Lakes of the Great Basin, by G. K. Gilbert. Bull. 

U. 8. Geol. Surv., No. 11, pp. 1-6C, pis. i-vi. 1885. Washington. 

Gives a systematic catalogue of the recent and Quaternary shells 

of the Great Basin, a discussion of their environment and geographic 

and chronologic distribution, and concludes (1) that the recent and tbe 

fossil mollusca are predominantly limnaeid, a biologic expression of cli 

mate; (2) that the fossil fauna is more variable than the recent; in the 

Lahontan area being characteristically limnaeid (represented by Pom- 

pholyx effusa), and in the Bonneville area rissoid (represented hj Amni- 

cola porata and A. cineinnatiensis) ; (3) that increase in salinity finds a 

biologic expression in depauperation, in lessened abundance, and in 

extinction when the waters become briny ; (4) that the oscillations of 

the lakes are coupled with varying abundance, and with varying size of 

shells as a biologic expression of climate. 

Hmnophysa bonnevillensis, from the Bonneville Lake beds, is the only 
new fossil species described. 

Carpenter, P. H. — Further Remarks upon the Morphology of the 
Blastoidea. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 5th ser., vol. 
XV, pp. 277-300, tig., p. 293. April, 1885. London. 

An answer to and a criticism of Mr. G. Hambach's article entitled 
" Contribution to the Anatomy of the Genus Pentremites, with Descrip- 
tions of New Species." Trans. Saint Louis Acad. Sci., vol. iv, No. i, 
1881, pp. 145-100, pis. A and B. 

Clarke, J. M. — A Brief Outline of the Geological Succession in Ontario 
County, New York, to accompany a map. Bep. State Geologist for 
1884, pp. 9-22. 1885. Albany. . 

Gives lists of fossils occurring in the different Devonian formations. 

Clarke, J. M. — On the Higher Devonian Faunas of Ontario County. 
New York. Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No, 16, pp. 1-86, pis. i-iii. 1885, 
Washington. 



N. A. INVEKTKBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY. 717 

Tweuty six uew species of invertebrates are described in this paper, 
which is divided under the following heads, viz : 

(1) Bibliography of th& formations here discussed, viz, the Genesee, 
the Naples, the Portage, and the High Point Chemung rocks of New 
Yoik. 

(2) The Petrographic and Palseontologic Chai-acters of the Genesee 
Ueds. 

(3) Review of the Fauna and Flora of the Genesee Shales. Here the 
following new species are described : Goniatites nodifer, Beyricliia Da- 
gon, Goniatites asfarte, Orthoeeras Stebos, 0. Mephinto, 0. Asynodeus, 
Platyostoma Belial^ Loxonema (?) Molocli, Modiomorpha (?) Ghemos, Spiri- 
fcra BelpJiegor, IS. Pluto, Leiorynchus (?) Hecate. 

(4) The Petrographic and PalsBoutologic Characters of the Naples 
Beds. 

(5) Review of the Fauna and Flora of the Nai)les Beds. Here the 
following new species are described : Geratiocaris simplex, G. Beecheri, 
Echinocaris Whitjieldi, Goniatites LutJieri, Orthoeeras aciculoides, 0. On- 
tario, 0. Jilosum, Bellerophon incisus, Trochus {Palceotrochus) proicursor, 
Platyostoma (?) minutissimum, Loxonema i^oe, Hyolithes Napolis, Lingula 
triquetra, Aulopora annectens. 

(6) The Petrographic and Palaeontologic Characters of the Portage 
Beds. 

(7) A List of the Fossils occurring in the Genesee, Naples, and Portage 
Beds of Ontario County, with the names of species heretofore identified 
Irom the horizons elsewhere in the State of New York, but not as yet 
known within this district. From these tables he concludes that the 
Naples shales have no such palseontologic relation to the rocks of the 
Chemung period as to justify the union of them with these rocks; that 
their fauna and flora is more closely allied to those of the Hamilton 
shales, and that therefore these beds are to be regarded either as con- 
stituting the uppermost member of the Hamilton period or, together 
with the Genesee shales, representing a distinct geological epoch. The 
more probable conclusion is that these two groups of strata represent 
the epoch of the lower Upper-Devonian in Western New York. 

(8) Fauna of Chemung Beils at High Point. It is unfortunate that 
six of the new species described are not illustrated in any manner. 

Claypole, E. W. — On the Vertical Range of certain Fossil Species in 
Pennsylvania and New York. Amer. Nat., vol. xix, pp. 644-654. 
July, 1885. Philadelphia. 

(1) Remarks on certain criticisms by Prof. James Hall, of Albany, in 
the preface to volume G7 of the Pennsylvania reports, on the palsonto- 
logical portion of the work in the volume. Mr. Claypole states that 
there is no doubt that in Perry County spirifers, unbroken and with both 
valves in contact, are found about 1 ,000 feet above red sandstone beds 
holding the scales of Holoptychius or Bothriolepis or both. (2) The au- 
thor states that Spirifera disjuncta, S. mesocostalis, S. mesostrialis, though 
evidently characterizing, probably, in some places, by their abundance, 



718 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

certaiu zones, are not by any means limited to these zones, but invade 
each other's territory to an undefined extent ; and that Spirifera Icevis 
occurs in Middle Pennsylvania higher tlian -the Portage group in the 
Chemung proper, and in company with ^S'. mesocosialis (?) (3) The author 
doubts whether there is any distinct character by which Orthis tuUiensis 
can be separated from 0. impressa, and he states on Professor Williams's 
authority that there is in New York an Orthis which cannot be distin- 
guished from 0. tuUiensis, occurring not at 200 feet only, but at a yet 
greater height (less than 500 feet) above the Genesee shale. (4) The 
author states that there is no doubt that Haly sites catenulatus occurs 
in the Lower Helderberg limestone at the place mentioned by Prof I. 
C. White, and that there is no doubt as to the strati graphical position 
of the bed in which it occurs. (5) The author concludes that all at- 
tempts to confine the range of species within certain arbitrary limits 
are attempts that are not likely to succeed, and that the artificial sys- 
tems of palaeontology which have been constructed by the faithful, earn- 
est, and devoted labors of the students of the science are but tempo- 
rary. 

Cooper, J. C— On Fossil and Subfossil Land Shells of the United 
States, with Notes on Living Species. California Academy of Sciences, 
pp. 235-255. October 13, 1885. [San Francisco.] 

Calls attention to the lack of post-tertiary changes that have occurred 
in the species of the Atlantic slope and to the striking changes in those 
of the Pacific slope, even in recent times and presumably ever since 
the Tertiary epochs. He mentions the occurrence of similar changes 
on Ihe islands and some parts of the main -land of Western Europe and 
Africa, and says: "In searching for a common cause of variations af- 
fecting the west slopes of both continents similarly, we arrive at the 
conclusion that it is change of climate, produced by Tertiary and recent 
geological action, and are obliged to admit that such action is still go- 
ing on." The absence of such action to any marked extent on the At- 
lantic slope of the United States he considers the cause of the lack of 
any changes in the land shells there. 

Dall, W. H. — Miocene Deposits in Florida. Science, vol. vi, No. 130, 

p. 82. July, 1885. Cambridge. 

Notes the discovery of Ecphora qaadricostata at Tampa, by Dr. E. 
E. C. Stearns, and says that it is probable that there is a large area in 
Florida corresponding in age to what has been called Mocene in Vir- 
ginia and the Carolinas. 

Dall, W. H.— Notes on some Floridan Land and Fresh Water Shells, 
with a Revision of the Auriculacea of the Eastern United States. 
Froc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. viii, pp. 255, 289, pis. xvii, xviii. July 1, 
1885. Washington. 

In this paper Mr. Dall mentions some forma that are found fossil as 
well as recent. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY. 7 1 

Dall, W. H. — List of Marine MoUusca comprising the Quaternary Fos- 
sils and recent forms from American localities between Cape Hat- 
teras and Cape Roque, including the Bermudas. Bull. U. /S'. Ge'd. iSur- 
vey, No. 24, pp. 1-336. L885. Washington. 

A bibliography of the works consulted in making up this list is also 
given. 

Dames, W. — E. W. Claypole : On the Occurrence of the Genus Dalma- 
uites in the Lower Carboniferous Rocks of Ohio. Geol. Mag., 1884, 
pp. 303-307 und Holzschuitte. Neu. Jalirh. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, 
Band i, p. 102. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 

Dames, W. — Ch. D. Walcott : Appendages of the Trilobite. ticience, 
vol. Ill, No. 57, 1884, pp. 279-281. Neu. Jalirh. fur Min. Geol. ct Pal., 
1885, Band i, p. 102. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 

Dames, W. — R. Jones and J. W. Kirby : On some Carboniferous Ento- 
mostraca from Nova Scotia. Geol. Mag., 1884, pp. 350-302, t. xir. 
Neu. Jahrh. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band i, pp. lOG, 107. Stutt- 
gart. (Abstract.) 

Dames, W. — Rupert Jones and H. Woodward: Notes on Phyllopodi- 
form Crustaceans, referable to the Genus Echinocaris, from the Pa- 
laeozoic Rocks. Geol. Mag. , 1884, pp. 393-390, t. xiii. Neu. Jalirh. 
fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band i, p. 110. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 

Dames, W. — C. H. E. Beecher: Ceratiocaridse from the Chemung and 
Waverly Groups at Warren, Pa. Report of Progress PPP, Second 
Geol. Survey of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, 1884, pp. 1-22, & 1 u. 2. 
Neu. Jalirh. fur Min. Geol. rf; Pal, 1885, Band i, pp. 110, 111. Stutt- 
gart. (Abstract.) 

Dames, W. — J. Mickleborough : Locomotary Appendages of Trilobites. 
Geol. Mag., 1884, p. 80-84. Neu. Jalirh. fur Min. Geol. cfc Pal, 1885, 
Band i, p. 477. Stuttgart. (Notice of.) 

[Dana, J. D.]. — Why are there no Fossils in the Strata jjreceding the 
Cambrian? Amer. Jour. Sci. ,3d ser.,yol.xxx,]p.7S. July, 1885. New 
Haven. 

Criticises Mr. Charles Morris's view that the earliest animals, like the 
youngest stage of animal life generally, had no hard parts to i)reserve, 
and that the sudden appearance of tribes was simply the appearance 
of species having hard or stony secretions. One difficulty in the way 
of the theory is presented by the existence of limestone formations of 
great extent in the Archean which most geologists suppose to be of or- 
ganic origin, and the existence also of phosphate of lime in large quan- 
tities which also is material of possible organic origin. [kSee Morris, 
Charles.) 



7"i() SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

[Dana, J. D.|. — Carabiiau or Primordial Kocks in the Eastern Part of 
British Columbia. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxx, p. 79. July, 
1885. New Haven. 

Notes Mr. Winwood's description in the Geol. Mag. for May of a 
Primordial fauna from near Stephen, on the Canadian Pacitic Railway. 
{See Win wood, H. H.) 

[Dana, J. D.]. — Spiraxis major and Sp. Eandalli of Newberry; large 
screw-like fossils from the Chemung group of Northern Pennsylvania 
and Southern New York. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxx, p. 244. 
September, 1885. New Haven. 

Notes Dr. Newberry's description of these forms, and the fact that he 
gives no decided opinion as to their biological relations. {See New- 
berry, J. S.) 

Dana, J. D. — Lower Silurian Fossils at Canaan, N. Y. Science, vol. 
VI, No. 339, p. 283. October, 1885. Cambridge. 

States that Prof. James Hall did not mean the beds at Canaan by 
the term " these limestones " used in the Science report of his remarks 
on Professor Dana's paper at the meeting of the A. A. A. S. at Ann 
Arbor, but referred to his knowledge of fossils at Hoosic, 40 miles 
north of Canaan, in a limestone which he regarded as of the same age 
with that of Canaan. 

[Dana, J. D.]. — New American Limuloid Species from the Carboniferous. 
Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxx, p. 401. November, 1885. New 
Haven. 

Notice of Prof. A. S. Packard's article in the American JS'aturalist iov 
March, 1885. 

Darton, N. H. — Preliminary Notice of Fossils in the Hudson Eiver 
Slates of the Southern Part of Orange County, New York, and else- 
where. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxx, pp. 452-454. December, 
1885. New Haven. 

Gives lists of the few fossils found near Sugar Loaf Village, at Rock 
Tavern and near Walden. 

Dawson, G. M. — Bowlder Clays. On the microscopic structure of cer- 
tain bowlder clays and the organisms contained in them. Bull. CJii- 
' cago Acad. Sci., vol. i, No. vi, pp. 59-G9, figs. 1-3 on p. 62. 1885. Chi- 
cago. 

The author mentions the occurrence of various organisms in certain 
bowlder clays at different localities, and figures certain supposed Anne- 
lid jaws from bowlder clays of Chicago and vicinity. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALJLONTOLOGY. 721 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — On Ehizocarps in the Palaeozoic Period. Cana- 
dian Bee. Sci., vol. i (1884-'85), pp. 19-27, fig. 23. 1884. Montreal. 

This paper was read before the A. A. A. S., August 16, 1883, at Min- 
neapolis. 

The author describes two species of Sporangites from Brazil, discusses 
their occurrence in various parts of North America, and concludes that 
the facts he enumerates do not furnish any positive proof that the abun- 
dant Sporangites of the Erian period were the fructification of Ehizo- 
carps, but they establish a certain probability of this, and invite to 
further researches. 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — Notes on Eozoou Canadense. Canadian Bee. Sci., 
vol. I (1884-'85), pp. 58, 59. 1884. Montreal. 

Abstract of a paper read before the British Association in 1883, at 
Soutbport. 

The author stated that the Eozoou, in its ordinary condition as min- 
eralized by serpentine, presents the simplest kind of mineralization of 
a calcareous fossil ; that in which the original calcite walls still exist, 
with no change except a crystallization of the calcite, common in the 
fossils of newer formations, and with the cavities filled with a hydrous 
silicate, which was evidently in process of deposition on the sea-bot- 
tom on which Eozoon is supposed to have lived. 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir).— The Mesozoic Floras of the Eocky Mountain 
Eegion of Canada. Canadian Bee. Sci., vol. i (1884-'85), pp. 141-143. 
1885. Montreal. 

Abstract of a paper read before the Eoyal Society of Canada, May, 
1885. {See other abstracts and reviews of the same paper.) 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — Ancient Insects and Scorpions. Canadian Bee. 

Sci., vol. I (1884-'85), pp. 207, 208. 1885. Montreal. 

A notice of the discovery of insects in the Silurian, that the Spanish 
Protohlattina suggests the existence of Silurian forests producing some 
kind of succulent and nutritious vegetable food, while it also furnishes 
an explanation of the possible means of sustenance of the carnivorous 
scorpions. 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — A Modern Type of Plant in the Cretaceous. 
Science, vol. v, No. 125, p 514, fig. on p. 514. June, 1885. Cambridge. 

Describes and figures Brasenice antiqua, from the Upper Cretaceous 
of the South Saskatchewan Eiver. The specimens come from the Belly 
Eiver series of the Canadian survey near Medicine Hat. These beds 
are Upper Cretaceous, and hold fossils some of which resemble those of 
the Laramie group ; others those of the Pierre group. The author 
himself assisted at the disinterment of a Dinosaur of the genus jDic- 
lonius from beds overlying those in which the leaves occur. 
H. Mis. 15 46 



722 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — A Jurasso- Cretaceous Flora in the Rocky Mount- 
ains. Science, vol. v, No. 125, pp. 531, 532. June, 1885. Cambridge. 
Notes the discovery of this fauna bylir. G. M.Dawson, in the Rocky 
Mountains, on the branches of the Old Man River, Martin Creek, Coal 
Creek, and one other locality far to the northwest on the Suskwa River. 
Sir William proposes for the beds containing it the name of Kootanie 
group. They can be traced for a distance of 140 miles north and south 
in the troughs of the palaeozoic formations of the mountai ns. The plants 
found are conifers, cycads, and ferns, the cycads being especially 
abundant. Some are identical with species described by Heer from 
the Jurassic of Siberia, while others occur in the Lower Cretaceous of 
Greenland. No dicotyledonous leaves have been found in these beds. 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — The Cretaceous Floras of Canada. Nature, vol. 
XXXIII, pp. 32-34. 1885. London and New York. 

From the advance sheets of a memoir to appear in the Transactions 
of the Royal Society of Canada. The author first discusses the geologi- 
cal relations of the floras, and gives, on page 33, a table showing the 
" successive floras and subfloras of the Cretaceous in Canada (in de- 
scending order "). This table ranges from the Upper Laramie or Porcu- 
pine Hill series, containing the Platanus beds of Souris River, Calgary, 
down to the Neocomien (f) Kootanie series of the Rocky Mountains, con- 
taining cycads, i)ines, and terns. The author then dicussesthe physical 
conditions and climate indicated by the Cretaceous floras. 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — Sir William Dawson on the Mesozoic Floras of 
the Rocky Mountain Region of Canada. Amer. Nat, vol. xix, pp. 
G99, 700. July, 1885. Philadelphia. 

An abstract of a paper read before the Royal Society of Canada, May, 
1885. The paper refers more particularly to a remarkable Jurasso-Cre- 
taceous flora recently discovered by Dr. G. M. Dawson in the Rocky 
Mountains, and to intermediate groups of plants between this and the 
Middle Cretaceous, serving to extend greatly our knowledge of the 
Lower Cretaceous flora, and to render more complete the series of plants 
between this and the Laramie. {See Dawson, Sir William.) 

Dawson, J. W. (Sir). — On the Mesozoic Floras of the Rocky Mountain 
Region of Canada. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada (vol. iii), section iv, 
1885, pp. 1-22, pis. i-iv. 1885. Montreal. 

Considers the flora of the Laramie group to be that of the newest 
Cretaceous. Describes a new flora of JurassoCretaceous age found by 
Dr. G. M. Dawson, which undoubtedly represents the flora of the lowest 
Cretaceous, which has not hitherto been recognized in Western America, 
and proposes to name it the Kootanie series. The following new forms 
are described : Dicksonia sp., Asplenium Martinianum, Zamites Montana, 
Z., sp., Sphenozamites sp., Salisburia [Ginglco) nana, Taonurus incertus ; 
from the intermediate series, yStercw^ia vetustula; from the Mill Creek 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY. 723 

or upper series, Dicksonia Munda^ Asplenium albertum, Williamsonia re- 
centior, Platanus affinis var. ampla, Cinnamonmm Canadense, Aralia ro- 
tu7idata, A. Westoni, Paliurus montanus, P. ovalis, Juglandites cretaeea ; 
from the Belly Eiver and Laramie group, Brasenke antiqua, Populus 
latidentata, Acer Saslxitchewense, Abietites Tyrrellii, Platanus (Araliopsis) 
Burpeana, Viburnum o.rycoccoides, V. Calgarianum, Saluburia sp. 

Fontaine, William M. — Contributions to the Knowledge of the Older 
Mesozoic Flora of Virginia. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 
5th series, vol. xvi, pp. 517-519. December, 1885. London. 

I^otice and abstract of Professor Fontaine's monograph of the U. S. 
Geol. Surv., vol. vi. 

Fontaine, William M. — Contributions to the Knowledge of the Older 
Mesozoic Flora of Virginia. Poj). Sci. Monthly, vol. xxviii, p. 129. No- 
vember, 1885. New York. 

A notice and very brief abstract of Professor Fontaine's monograph 
of the U. S. Geol. Surv., vol. vi. 

Ford, S. W. — Note on the Age of the Slaty and Arenaceous Eocks in the 
Vicinity of Schenectady, Schenectady County, New York. Aoner. 
Jour. ScL, 3d ser., vol. xxix, pp. 397, 398. May, 1885. New Haven. 

The author refers these beds to the age of the Utica group on palaeon- 
tologic grounds. They have formerly been considered as belonging to 
the epoch of the Lorraine shales. He finds Lingula curta a Utica spe- 
cies, and other fossils. 

Ford, S. W. — (Note on the Age of the Slaty and Arenaceous Eocks in 
the Vicinity of Schenectady, Schenectady County, New York.) Na- 
ture, vol. xxxii, p. 116. 1885. London and New York. 

Notice and abstract of Mr. Ford's paper in the Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d 
ser., vol. XXIX, pp. 397, 398. 

Gardner, J. S. — The Cretaceous and Tertiary Floras of the United 
States, by Leo Lesquereux (U. S. Survey of the Territories under 
F. V. Hayden, vol. vii). Nature, vol. xxxiii, pp. 19G, 197. 1885. 
London and New York. 

A brief review of Professor Lesquereux's important work. 

Geyler, H. T. — Lester F. Ward : On Mesozoic Dicotyledons. Ann. and 
Magaz. of Nat. History, 1884, vol. xiii, No. 77, pp. 383-395. Neu. 
Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band ii, pp. 219, 220. Stuttgart. 
(Abstract.) 

GuRLEY, yv. F. E. — New Carboniferous Fossils. Bulletin No. 2, pp. 
1-12. February 25, 1884. (Danville, 111.) 

Describes a number of fossils from his own collection, no illustrations 
accomi)anyiug the descriptions. The following genera and species arc 



724 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

established: Troosiocrinus Wachsmutlii ; the new genus CucumuUtes, 
with the following types : C. iuberculatus and 0. tricarinatus ; the new 
genus Cidarospoiigia, with the type C. Ella; the new genus Ptychostylus, 
with the types P. heterocostalis and P. snhtumidus. The above new 
genera are all placed in the Protista. Discina KeolcnTc^ Lepetopsis Par- 
rishl, Bellerophon Ourayensis, B. incompttis, B. nodocostatus, B. tenuilin- 
eatus, B. rugopJeiirus. 

Hall, James. — Note on the Intimate Relations of the Chemung Group 
and VVaverly Sandstone in Northwestern Pennsylvania and Southwest- 
ern New York. Proc. A. A. A. 8., vol. xxxiii, part ii, pp. 416-419. 

1885. Salem. 

(Abstract.) Gives a list of the Waverly genera of fossils. Without 
any apparent want of conformity the Waverly follows the Chemung, but 
at the point in the section marked "Place of the Catskill" there is a hia- 
tus which, iu Eastern' New York and Pennsylvania, is marked by the 
presence of measures having a thickness of from 3,000 to 5,000 feet- 
Therefore we Lave a right to conclude that there has been a long inter- 
val in time between the final deposition of the barren Chemung shales 
and the fossiliferous Waverly sandstone, or that the deposition of the 
estuary Catskill sediments has been going on simultaneously with the 
open sea deposits of the Waverly formation. 

Hall, James. — Note on the Eurypteridse of the Devonian and C.ar- 
boniferou3 Formations of Pennsylvania ; with a supplementary note 
on the Stylonurus excelsior. Proc. A. A. A. 8., vol. xxxiii, part ii, 
pp. 420-422. 1885. Salem. 

The geologic range of the genus, so far as at present known, is from 
the Clinton group, where we have an unpublished S])ecies {Eurypterus 
prominens) — to the Coal Measures. Gives a tabular view of the geologi- 
cal distribution of the family Eurypterdae in the United States. Gives 
a note on the size and occurrence of 8tylonurus excelsior, Hall. 

Hall, James. — Note on the Eurj'pteridse of the Devonian and Carbon- 
iferous Formations of Pennsylvania. 2d Geol. 8urv. Pennsylvania, 
Eep. of Progress P. P. P., pp. 23-39, pis. iii-viii, figs. 2-4, on jip. 25, 
27, and 34. 1884. Harrisburg. 

Discusses the Eurypteridse, gives a tabular view of the geological 
distribution of the family in the United States, and describes Eurypterus 
Beecheri from the Chemung, E. stylus from the Alleghany River series, 
and names and figures, but does not mention in the text, E. potens, pi. 
iv, figs. 9 and 10. 

Hall, James. — Classification of the Lamellibranchiata. Rep. 8tate Ge- 
ologist for 1881, pp. 8-15, jils. i-xi. 1884. Albany. 
The plates are intended to rei^resent the characteristic generic forms 

and to convey in a measure some idea of the variety of forms embraced 

iu each genus of Devonian Lamellibranchiata. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY. 725 

Hall, James. — Discussion upon the Manner of Growth, Variation of 
Form, and Characters of the Genus Feuestella, and its Kelations to He- 
mitrypa, Polypora, Eetepora, Cryptopora, &c. Rep. State Geologist 
for 1882, pp. 5-16, figs. 1-36 on pp. 9, 10, 12,13,15. 4to. 1883. Albany. 

Eedefiues the genus Fenestella, and includes in it Eetepora, Fhyllop- 
ora, Leptopora, Eeteporina, Fenestrellina, Hemitrypa. For continuation 
of article, see Bep. State Oeologist for 1884, pp. 35-45. 1885. Albany. 

Hall, James. — Fossil Corals and Bryozoans of the Lower Helderberg 
Group and Fossil Bryozoans of the Upper Helderberg Group. Eep. 
State Geologist for 1882, p. 17, pis. i-xxxiii. 4to. 1883. Albany. 

These plates are photolithographed and published with their expla- 
nations in advance of vol. vi, Palaeontology of New York. 

Hall, James. — Brachiopoda: Plates and Explanations. Eep. State Ge- 
ologist for 1882, j)ls. xxxiv-LXi. 4to. 1883. Albany. 

These plates are photolithographed and published with their expla- 
nations in advance of vol. iv, part ii, Palaeontology of New York. 

Hall, Jaimes. — Description of the liryozoans of the Hamilton Group. 
(Fenestellidse excepted.) Eep. State Geologist for 1883, pp. 5-61. 
1884. Albany. 

The following new species are described : Callopora hipunctata, Thal- 
lostigma multaculeata, Lichenalia cultellata, Stictopora crenulata; then 
Stictopora is described as a subgenus on p. 48 ; S. (s. g. 1) dichotoma n. 
sp., is described under it. 

Most of the species' and genera in this article were more briefly de- 
scribed in the Trans. Albany Institute, vol. x, pp. 179-197. 1883. Albany. 

Hall, James. — Notice of the Machinery and Methods of Cutting Speci- 
mens of Kocks and Fossils at the New York State Museum of Natural 
History. 35th Eep. Neic York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp. 121-124, pis. 
i, ii, and xvi. 1884. Albany. 

Plates i and ii contain figures of the machinery used, and i)late xvi 
contains figures and translucent sections of fossil corals made by the 
method explained. The illustration of Tetradium Ontario is marked as 
a new species. 

Hall, James. — Preliminary Notice of the Lamellibranchiate Shells of 
the Upper Helderberg, Hamilton, and Chemung Groups. Prepara- 
tory for the Palaeontology of New York, part i. 35th Eep. New York 
State Mus. Nat. Hist, pp. 215-406f. 1884. Albany. 

A separate issue of this paper was also published with five plates on 
generic illustrations taken from the Eeport of the State Geologist for 
1882. 

Published in advance of Palaeontology of New York, vol. v, part i. 
Noticed last year. 



72(1 SCIENTIFIC RECORD EOR 1885. 

Hall, James. — Description of Fossil Corals from the Niagara and Upper 

Helderberg Groups. 35tli Rep. Neic YorJc State Mns. Rat. Hist., pp. 

407-464, pis. xxiii-xxx. 1884. Albany. 

The following new species are from the Niagara group : Streptelasma ? 
{Zaphrentis f) exstans, S. f {Z. ?) limitare, PtychophyUum floriforme, P. 
fulcratum, Ghonophyllum vadum, G. capax, HaUia scitnla, H. divisa, H. 
divergenfi, H. pluma, Anisophyllum unilargum, A. trifurcatum, A. f Mia- 
meUatnm, Zaphrentis rigida, Z. cristulaticm, Z. pressula, Z. latisinus, Z. 
siibvada, Amplexus uniforme, A. jimctum, Cyathaxonia coliimellata, C. 
Herzcri, CyatJiophyllum intertrium, C. hullulatum, Eeliophyllum gemmi- 
ferum, H. praviim, H. dentUineatum, H. mitellum, H. puteatum, Cysti- 
phyllum granilineatum, Calceola pusilla, Cyathospongia excrescens. Cya- 
thospongia is a new genus and is described as one of the Petrospongicc. 

The following new species are from the Upper Helderberg group : 
Streptelasma lamellatum, S. tentie, S. dissimile, S. inflatum, S. simplex, S. 
laterariuni, S. ampliatum, S. conspicuum, S. fossula, S. crater if or me, S. 
involutum, S. cequidistans, S. mammiferum, S. papillatum, S. coarctatum, 
PtychophyUum versiforme, P. striatum, Aulachophyllum convergens, A. 
prater if orme, A. pinnatum, A. princeps, A. cruciforme, A. prceciptum, A. 
refiexum, A. tripinnatum, A. trisculactum, A. poculum, A. bilaterale, Za- 
phrentis inequalis, Z. complanata, Z. cyathiformis, Z. ponderosa, Z. tabu- 
laia, Z. corrugata, Z. suhcompressa, Z. Colletti, Z. platiima, Z. fusiformis, 
Z. oralis, Z. spissa, Z. torta, Z. fastigata, Z. trisutura, Z. profunda, Z. 
nitiila, Z frtquentata, Z. duplicata, Z. sentosa, Z. calcariformis, Z. eon- 
stricta, Z. annulata, Z. Enappi, Z. folia t a, Z. inclinata, Z. irregularis, Z. 
concara, Z. Hvrzcri, Z. currata, Z. gravis, Z. transversa, Z. elegans, Z. 
conrolnta, Z. contorta, Z. vennsta, Elasmophyllum (new genus), type E. at- 
tenuatum, (Jyailiophyllum {Elasmophyllum) intervesiculum, G. exfoliatum, 
G. canal icii latum, G. impositnm, G. depressum, C. are'ifossa, G. vesicula- 
tum, G. buUatum, G. cohcxrens, G. septatum, G. perfosnulatum^ G. concen- 
tricum, G. scalenum, G. perplicatum, G. rohustum, Bloihrophyllum multi- 
calicatum, B. papulosum, B. simiosum, B. promissum, Heliophyllum aJter- 
natum, R. incrassatum, H. acuminatum, H. venatttm, H. imbricatum, H- 
verticale, H. invaginatum, H. cequale, R. fasciculatum, R. annulatum, 
R. compactuni, R. dentalum, R. fecundum, R. gemmatnm, R. later icres- 
cens, H. pocillatum, R. distans, R. lineolatum, R. a'quum, R. scyphutus, 
R. tenuimurale, R. Netiehrothi, R. sordidum, R. denticnlatum, R. cam 
paniforme, R. fissuratum, R. cancellaium , Dyphyphyllum adnatum, D. cyl- 
indraceum, I), apertum, D. breve, D. tumidulum, Gysiiphyllum bipartitum, 
G. bifurcatum, G. muricatum, G. quadrangulare, G. tenuiradius, G.namum, 
C. latiradius, G. supraplanum, G. crateriforme, G. pustulatum, G. infundi- 
bulum, G. obliqnum, G. scalatum, G. striatura, Coleophyllum new genus, 
types G. Romingeri and G. pyriforme. 

Only Upper Helderberg species are illustrated, and the illustrations 
of these stop at Zaphrentis Rerzcri in the above list. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALJLONTOLOGY. 727 

Hall, James. — Illustrations of the Microscopic Structure of Brachio- 
poda. 35th Bep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pi. xxii. 1884. 
Albany. 

These illustrations are presented to show the principal varieties of 
structure of the strophomenoid Brachiopoda. They represent a portion 
of the work which is being done for the elucidation of shell structure 
preparatory for the volume of Palieontology on the Revision of the Bra- 
chiopoda. The specimens are prepared and photographed, and the ac- 
comi^anying figures were drawn on stone from photograjihic prints. 

Hall, James. — Bryozoa (Fenestellidsej of the Hamilton Group. 36th 
Rep. New York State Mus. N'at. Eist., pp. 57-72. 1884. Albany. 

The following new species are described : Fenestella multiplex, F. lat- 
itruncata, F. fistulata, F.aspectus, F. angusfata, F. marcida, F. planira- 
mosa, F. cinctuta, F. perimdulata, F. assita, F. wjiexa, F. perforata, F. 
scalaris, F. exornata, F. quadrangala, F. emaciata, F. curvata, F. brevi- 
linea, F. suhtortilis, and F. strata. 

Hall, James. — On the Structure of the Shell in the Genus Orthis. 36th 
Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp. 73-75, pis. iii, iv. 1884. 
bany. 

With his present knowledge the author makes three groups of Orthis, 
according to their shell structure, the non-punctate, the distinctly i^unc- 
tate, with distinct rows of puuctae coming out along the summit of the 
radii, and the highly punctate. Excellent figures of shell sections are 
given. 

Hall, James. — Description of a New Species of Stylonurus from the 
Catskill Group. 36th Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist, pp. 76, 
77, pi. V. 1884. Albany. (Describes Stylonurus excelsior.) 

[Hall, James]. — Description of a New Genus from Greenfield, Saratoga 
County, New York. 36th Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pi. 
vi. 1884. Albany. 

Describes the new genus Cnjptozoon,with. C.proli/erum as its type. 
The generic and specific description are on the page of the explanation 
of the plate. There is no name connected with it, but the author is pre- 
sumably James Hall. 

Hall, James. — On the Mode of Growth and Relations of the Fenestel- 
lidae. Rep. State Geologist for 1884, pp. 35-45, pis. i, ii; figs, a-i, p. 
39; 1-2, p. 40; A-E, p. 41; A, p. 42; 1-10, pp. 43-45. 1885. Al- 
bany. 

Continued from page 14 of the Report of the State Geologist for 1882. 
Assembly document No. 178, 1883. 

The author proposes the following subgenera : Fenestropora, Ftylo- 
porina, Ptyloporella, TJnitrypa, Isotrypa. Gives at length his reasons 



728 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

for not recognizing the generic value of Garinopora and Cryptopora 
Nicholson. A considerable number of figures have been prepared, but 
not yet lithographed, to illustrate this paper on the FenestelUdce. These 
will appear in a future report. 

[Hall, James]. — On the Relations of the Genera Stictopora,Ptilodictya, 
Acrogenia, and Allied Forms in the Palaeozoic Rocks of New York. 
Rep. State Geologist for 1884, p. 46 ; figs. 1-3, p. 4G. 1885. Albany. 

To be printed with the next report of the State Geologist. Figures 

1, 2, and 3 are typical forms of Stictopora, Ptilodictya, and Acrogenia. 

[Hall, James]. — Note (on some Palaeozoic Pectenoid Shells). Rep. 
State Geologist for 1884, pp. 47, 48; figs. 1-6, p. 46. 1885. Albany. 

These wood-cuts were prepared for the report of the State Geologist 
for 1882. Tbey were not completed in time for insertion in that report 
and are introduced in this phice with their explanations. Figs. 1 and 

2, Aviculopecten ; figs. 3 and 4, Fterinea flabella ; fig. 5, Aetinopteria de- 
cussata ; and tig. 6, Aviculopecten exacutus. 

Heilprin, AnGtELO. — Town Geology. The Lesson of the Philadelphia 
Rocks. Studies of Nature along the Highways and among the By- 
ways of a Metropolitan Town, pp. 1-142, pis. i-vii. 1885. Phil- 
adelphia. 

Chapter x is on the fossils of the marl, or life in the Cretaceons pe- 
riod, containing popular descrii)tion8 of the groups ; plates iv and v 
contain figures of the Cretaceous invertebrate fauna. 

Heilprin, Angelo. — The Classification and Palseontology of the U. S. 
Tertiary Deposits. Science, vol. y, No. 124, pp. 475, 476. June, 1885. 
Cambridge. 
A iH'otest against the acceptance of Dr. Otto Meyer's views in his 

" Genealogy of the Speciesof the Older Tertiary Formations," and a warn- 
ing to palaeontologists not to accept his numerous new species. 

Heilprin, Angelo. — The Classification and Palceontology of the U. S. 

Tertiary Deposits. Science, vol. vi. No. 130, pp. 83, 84. July, 1885. 

Cambridge. 

Contains further criticisms of Dr. Otto Meyer's paper, and reiterates 
his warning to geologists and palaeontologists against the acceptation of 
his views. 

HiLGARD, E. W. — The Classification and Palaeontology of the U. S. Ter- 
tiary Deposits. Science, vol. vi, No. 128, p. 44. July, 1885. Cam 
bridge. 

Note on Dr. Jtto Meyer's paper in the Amcr. Jour. Sci., and on Mr. 
A. Heilpriu's notice of it in Science. The author enters a caveat on 
both sides of the question, symi)athizes with Dr. Meyer's views in re- 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY. 729 

spect to the trausition of so-called species from one of the stages to 
another, but emphatically agrees with Heilprin as to the impossibility 
of subverting the accumulative stratigraphic evidence, to the eflect that 
the relative superposition of the several principal stages — the Buhr- 
stone, Claiborne, Jackson, and Vicksburg groups — cannot be otherwise 
than 'as heretofore ascertained in hundreds of localities by others as 
well as by himself. 

HiLGARD, E. W. — The Old Tertiary of the Southwest. Amer. Jour. Sci., 
3d ser., vol. xxx, pp. 266-269. October, 1885. New Haven. 
Criticises Dr. Otto Meyer's views as expressed in the June and July 
numbers of this journal. Does not attach much importance to Plagi- 
ostoma dumosum as a significant fossil. Considers Area Mississippiensis 
as the most characteristic Vicksburg fossil. For the Jackson age the 
most constant fossil is the Zeuglodon and also Venericardia planicosta, 
which has nowhere been found associated with the characteristic Vicks- 
burg fauna. Through this widely diffused and universally recognized 
shell, as well as through the almost equally constant Gastridium vetus- 
turn and Calyptrophorus velatus as common fossils, the Jackson fauna 
connects strikingly with the Claiborne and Buhrstoue beds, and the 
author has found this Venericardia in the latter in almost immediate 
contact with the Upper Cretaceous rocks of North Mississippi. Upon 
Dr. Meyer's assumption, the Vicksburg beds, void of both of the above 
types, would actually be intercalated between this oldest post-Creta- 
ceous fauna and the Claiborne and Jackson beds. However, his as- 
sumption is abundantly and conclusively disproved by the most direct 
stratigraphical evidence. 

HiNDE, G. J. — Description of a New Species of Crinoids with Articulating 
Spines. Annals and Magaziyie of Natural History, 5th ser., vol. xv, 
pp. 157-173, pi. vi, and fig. p. 163. March, 1885. London. 
Describes the new genus Hystricrinus^^^^Artliroacantha. Williams, in- 
valid, and the new species Hystricrinus Garjjenteri from the Middle De- 
vonian at Arkona, Ontario, Canada. The peculiarity of the species 
consists in movable spines. 

HiNDE, G. J. — Notice of Hystricrinus Carpenteri, a Criuoid with Artic- 
ulating Spines. Amer. JVat, vol. xix, p. 706. July, 1885. Philadel- 
phia. 

This specimen, from calcareous shales of the jMiddle Devonian at Ar- 
kona, Ontario, was described by Mr. G. J. Hiude in the Ann. and Mag. 
Nat. Hist, March, 1885. The genus is identical with Arthrocanthiis 
(Williams), a name preoccui)ied among the Rotatoria. 

Hyatt, Alpheu.s. — Structure of the Siphon in the Endoceratidaj. 
Pruc. A. A. A. S., vol. xxxiii, part ii, pp. 490,491. 1885. Salem. 

Abstract. Describes the structure of the siphon of Endoceras and 



730 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

refers to that of AcUnoceras, and adds a third type of syphon iu a new 
genus which he calls Choanitoceras, the syphon of which is not ascer- 
tained, the remains being exclusively those of the hard, unyielding en- 
dosiphon and sheaths. 

Hyatt, Alpheus. — Structure and Affinities of Beatricea. Proc. A. A. 

A. S., vol. XXXIII, part ii, p. 492. 1885. Salem. 

Abstract. This remarkable fossil has a cellular structure similar to 
the Foramenifera, and possesses stolons, uniting these cells with each 
other. 

Hyatt, Alpheus.— [Letter relative to the Pteropods of the Saint John 
Group.] Bull. Nat. Hist. Soc, New Brunsivick, jS^o. iv, p. 102. 1885. 
Saint John, New Brunswick. 

States that a certain form is a Ryalothis, allied to H. undulatiis Bar- 
rande. The aspect of a syphon is due to the compression of the sharper 
against the flatter side and the form of the sutures, which favors this 
impression. These fossils with their distinct septa are remarkably similar 
to certain forms of Nautiloidea, but there is no syphon. They, how- 
ever, confirm Von Jhernig's and the author's opinion that the Orthocera- 
tites and Pteropods have had a common, but as yet undiscovered, an- 
cestor in ancient times. 

Hyatt, Alpheus. — [Letter relative to the Pteropods of the Saint John 
Group ] Canadian Bee. ScL, vol. i (1884:-'85), p. 141. 1885. Mon- 
treal. 
This letter also appeared iu the Bull. Nat. Hist. Soc. New Brunswick^ 

No. IV, p. 102. 1885. Saint John, New Brunswick. 

Hyatt, Alpheus. — Larval Theory of the Origin of Cellular Tissues. 

Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xxiii, March 5, 1884, pp. i-iv and 

45-163. (1885. Boston.) 

The hypothesis of the common but independent origin of types is also 
supported by all collateral evidences. The results of palajoutologic re- 
search have carried back the origin of distinct types farther and farther 
every year. It is now established that there was an excessively sud- 
den appearance of vast numbers of forms in the Cambriam or jjerhaps 
earlier, as claimed by Prof J. Marcou. The author has applied this 
specific statement as a generalization to the history of smaller groups 
of fossils in several branches of the animal kingdom, and in many for- 
mations, aud has found that the sudden appearance of the smaller 
groups occurs according to the same law. The early geologic history 
of animal life, like the early stages of development in the embryo, was 
a more highly concentrated and accellerated process in evolution than 
that which occurred at any subsequent period of the earth's history. 
The great mass of life as shown by the fossils has been progressive, 
and the progress was similar to that of the individual from a more gen- 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 731 

eralized to more and more specialized couditioiis and structures. The 
primitive stocks, like tlie primitive Metazoa, the Porifera, were certainly 
much more variable and unstable tbau the later and more complicated 
forms, which are mote stable and less susceptible of change. Thus, 
when radical changes become necessary in order to sustain the life of 
the species of a group, they die out as did the Ammonites, or decay as 
did the Xautiloids, and exhibit most clearly the stability they have ac- 
quired as progressive forms in their inability to meet the requirements 
of different modern conditions. 

Jaimes, J. r. — Fucoids of the Cincinnati Group. Jour. Cincinnati Soc. 
Nat. Hist., vol. vii, pp. 151-lGG, pis. vii, viii. January, 1885. Cin- 
cinnati. 

Describes the new species Cruziana CarJeyi, and finishes reviewing 
the already described fossil algaj of the group. The author concludes 
that there is not a single one entitled to remain in the class. They are 
referred to three different sources: first, inorganic causes; second, to 
trails and burrows; third, and last, to the Hydrozoa. 

JajVIES, J. F. — Are there any Fossil Algse ? Amer. JSTat., vol. xix, pp. 
165-167. February, 1885. Philadelphia. 

The author seems to consider that there are no fossil algse, and that 
it is unreasonable to expect to find any. 

JAjvies, J. F. — Remarks on a supposed Fossil Fungus from the Coal 
Measures. Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. viii, pp. 157-159. 
October, 1885. Cincinnati. 

The author holds that Rhizomoriiha sigillarice Lesquereux is not a 
fungus, but the burrow left under the bark by the grub of some one of 
the species of insects flourishing at the time of the deposition of the 
coal, and refers to the burrows made by species of Scolytus under the 
bark of species of hickory as possessing the same characteristics and 
appearances as the fossil. 

James, J. F. — Remarks on some Markings on the Rocks of the Cincin- 
nati Group, described under the names of Ormathicuus and Walcot- 
tia. Jour. Cincinnati Soe. Nat. Hist., vol. viii, pp. 160-16li. Octo- 
ber, 1885. Cincinnati. 

The author considers that Ormathicuus Miller is not the track made 
by a Gasteropod, but was really made by a crinoid stem. The author 
thinks this is shown conclusively by a specimen found near Cincinnati 
by Mr. U. P. James containing a part of the crinoid stem which he con- 
siders made the mark. The genus Walcottia Miller and Dyer, two of 
whose species are considered as crinoid-stem impressions, and the third 
as probably a burrow, is "consigned to the limbo of the improbable." 



732 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

James, J. F. — Eeinarks on the Genera Lepidolites, Anomaloides, Ischa- 
dites, and Receptaculites from the Cincinnati GrouiJ. Jour. Cincinnati 
Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. viii, pp. 163-166. October, 1885. Cincinnati. 
The author considers Lepidolites (Ulrich) a synonym of Ischadites 

Murchison, 2kixA Anomaloides Ulrich a synonym oi Receptaculites Defrance. 

JULIEN, A. A. — A study of Eozoon Canadense, Filed Observations. 

Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. xxxiii, part ii, pp. 415, 416. 1885. Salem. 

Abstract. A description was given of the lithologic characteristics of 
the rocks inclosing and associated with Eozoon Canadense at various 
localities. The inclosure of pyroxene (or malachite) within the serpen- 
tine was described at a new locality for Eozoon, Seillant's apatite mine 
near Cote Saint Pierre. 

Karsch, Franz. — Samuel H. Scudder. The Species of Mylacris, a 
Carboniferous Genus of Cockroaches. Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 
Ill, No. ix, 1884, pp. 299-309, pi. xxvii, fig. 5-11. Boston. Neu. 
Jahrh. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band ii, pp. 178, 179. Stuttgart. 
(Abstract.) 

Karsch, Franz. — Samuel H. Scudder : A New and Unusually Perfect 
Carboniferous Cockroach from Mazon Creek, Illinois. Proc. Bost. Soc. 
Nat. Hist., vol. xxi, pt. Iv, 1882, pp. 391-396. (1883. Boston.) Neu. 
Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. tf; Pal, 1885, Baud it, p. 178. Stuttgart. 
(Abstract.) 

Karsch, Franz. — Samuel H. Scudder : Older Fossil Insects West of the 
Mississippi. Proc. Bost. Soc' Nat. Hist., vol. xxii, pt. i, 1882, pp. 58- 
60. (1883. Boston.) Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 
II, pp. 177, 178. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) . 

Karsch, Franz. — Samuel H. Scudder : Notes on some of the Tertiary 
Neuroptera of Florrisant and Colorado, and Green River, Wyoming 
Territory. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist, vol. xxi pt. i v, 1882, pp. 407-409. 
(1883. Boston.) Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band ii, 
pp. 170, 177. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 

Karsch, Franz. — Samuel H. Scudder : Two New and Diverse Types of 
Carboniferous Myriopods. Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iii, No. ix, 
pp. 283-297. 1884. Boston. Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 
1885, Band ii, pp. 175, 176. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 

Karcsh, Franz. — Samuel H. Scudder : Archipolypoda, a subordinate 
type of spined Myriopods from the Carboniferous formation. Mem. 
Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iii. No. v, pp. 143-182, pi. x-xiii. 1882. 
Boston. Neu. Jahrb. fur- Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band ii, pp. 174, 
175, Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 733 

Kjirsch, Franz. — Samuel H. Scudder: A Contribution to our knowl- 
edge of palaeozoic Aracbnida. Proceed, of the American Academy of 
Arts and Sciences, vol. xx (N. S. xii), 1884, pp. 13-22. Neu. Jahrb. 
fur Min. Geol. & Pal, 1885, Band ii, pp. 172, 173. Stuttgart. 
(Abstract.) 

KuNZ, G. F. — On tbe Agatized Woods and the Malachite, Azurite, &c., 
from Arizona. Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. v, 1885-'86, pp. 9-12. 
October, 1885. New Yor^i. 

Describes tbe silicified forest in Arizona known as Chalcedony Park, 
situated 8 miles south of Corriza, Apache County, Arizona. Remarks 
that the wood structure has been perfectly preserved even to the forms 
of the minute cells. 

Lesquereux, Leo.— Contributions to the Fossil Flora of the Western 

Territories, part iii. The Cretaceous and Tertiary Floras. Eep. U. 

S. Geol. Sitrv. Territories, F. V. Hayden, U. S. Geologist in charge. 

vol. VIII, pp. i-vi and 1-283, pis. i-lix. 4to. 1883. Washington. 

This important work was not published till February, 1885, although 
it bears the imprint 1883. It is divided into four parts, as follows, viz: 

I. The flora of the Dakota group: 

(1) General remarks. Concludes that the first appearance and ap- 
parent simultaneous multiplication of the dicotyledonous plants remains 
a fact inconceivable to reason. 

(2) Description and enumeration of species of the American Dakota 
group formation. The following new species are described : Equisctum 
nodosum, Podozamites oblongus, P. prceUngus, P. emarginatus, P. cauda- 
tus, Torreya oblanceolata, Thuites crassus, Myrica Sternbergii, Quercus 
dakotensis, Q. morrisoniana, Ficus BccTiwitliii, F. f angustata, F. magno- 
liafolia, F. Glasccena, Lomatia Saportcana, var. longifoUa, Laurus f mo- 
desta. Sassafras [Araliopsis) dissectum, S. {A) platanoides, Aralia sub- 
emarginata, A. tenuinerms, A. radiata, Gissites salisburiafoUus, Hama- 
melltes tenuinervis, H. quercifoUus, H. (?) cordatus, Magnolia sp. Lirio- 
phyllum obcordatum, Carpites Uriophylli f, Anona cretacea, Menispermites 
acutilobus, M. grandis, StercuUa lugubris, S. aperta, Sapindus Morrisoni, 
Rhamnus prunifolius, Leguminosites cultriformis, Aspidiophyllum denta- 
tum, A. platifolinm, Carpolithes species.? 

(3) Table of distribution of the plants of the Cretaceous Cenomanian 
formation. 

(4) Relationship of the flora of the Dakota group. The author con- 
cludes that the marked analogy in the components of the floras author- 
izes the conclusion of equivalency of the age of the Dakota group with 
that of the Quader sandstone of Germany, which is as positively de- 
termined as Cenomanian by its animal fossils as the Dakota group is 
recognized as Middle Cretaceous by the invertebrate remains which 
abound in the strata of the Fort Benton group immediately overlying it. 



734 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

II. Flora of the Laramie group : 

(1) States that the flora has a relation, remarkably well defined, with 
that of Sezanne. Says that the age of the Laramie group of Haydeu is 
not yet definitely determined. The flora, like the invertebrate fauna, is 
on the whole of a peculiar character, uniformily distributed over the 
whole extent of the formation, and free from any types or characters 
relating it to the Cretaceous flora. As the Laramie group has never 
been subjected to submersion in the deep sea, the few remains of Diuo 
saurianS found in it are derived from low marine lagoons penetrating 
into the land, and cannot impress the formation with the Cretaceous 
character. 

(2) Table of distribution of the species of the Laramie group. 

(3) Description of species added to the flora of the Laramie group. 
The following new species are described : Osmunda major, Oreodoxites 
plicatus, Aralia pungens, Anona robiista, Zizyphus Beclcwithii, Bhamnus 
deformatus. 

III. The flora of the Green Eiver group : 

(1) Geological distribution of the measures. 

(2) Enumeration and description of the species of fossil plants known 
from ihe Green River group. The following new species are described: 
Char a f glomcrata, Fontinalis pristina, Isoetes hrevifolius, Splienopteris 
GuyottiijAdiantites gracillimns, Pinvs FlorissanU, Widdringtonia lingua.'- 
folia, Cypcritcs Haydcnii,Potamogeton ? verticillatus,Nojadopsis rvgulosa, 
Lemna penicillata, Flabellaria Florissanti, Palmocarpon f globosum, 
Myrica obscura, M. rigida, M. citllicomaifolia, M. fallax, M. Scottii, M. 
diversifoHa, 31. AlMlina. Betuin Florissanti, B. fruncata, Alnus cordata, 
Ostrya betuloides, Carpimis attenuafa, C. fratcrna, Quercus Osbortiii, 
Q. pjirifoUa, Q. castaneopsis, Salix amygdaUvfoUa, S. Libbeyi, Ulmis Hil- 
licc, U. BroicneUii, Celtis McCosMi, Ficvs temiinervis, F. all-alina, San- 
talum Americanum, Banlxsites Uncatns, Lomatia hal-eafoUa, L. s/;i»os«, 
L. ierminalis, L. tripartita, L. acutiloba, L. abbreviata, L. interrupta, 
Pimelea dcUcatida, Olea prwmissa, Fraxinns Ecerii, F. mespiUfoUa, F. 
abbreviata, F. f myricwfoUa, F. Vngeri, F. Libbeyi, ApocynopliyUum 
Scudderi, Porana Speirii, P. tenuis, Myrsine latifolia, Bumclia Floris- 
santi, Macreightia crassa, Andromeda delicatula, A. rhomboidalis, Aralia 
dissecta, Hedera marginata, Weimnannia integrifoUa, W. obtusifolia 
Sterculia rigida, Tilia populifolia, Acer indivisum, Sapindus inflexus, S. 
lancifolins, Evonymus flexifoUus, Celastrus Laccei, C. fraxinifolius, C. 
elegans. Ilex pseudostenopliylla, I. microphylla, I. maculata, I. querci 
folia, I. grandifolia, I. knighticvfolia, Ehamnus olemfolius, Juglans Floris 
santi, Rhus fraterna, R, coriarioides, R. cassioides, R. Eilliw, R. subrhom 
boidalis, R. vexans, R. trifolioides, Zanthoxylon spireo'folium, Ailanthus 
longepetiolata, Amelanchier typica, Crataegus acerifolia, Rosa HilUoi 
Amygdalus gracilis, Cytisus modestus, G. Florissantiamcs, Gercis parvi 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 735 

folia, Podogonium acuminatum, Leguminosites serrulatus, L. species, An- 
tholithes amcenus, A. improhus, Garpites gemmaceus, C. Milioides. 

(3) General remarks. Table of distribution of the plants of the Green 
Kiver and White Eiver groups. 

(4) Kelatiouship of the local groups indicated by correlation of spe- 
cies. The plants which have heretofore been referred by the author to 
the Green Eiver group represent two different horizons : Green Eiver 
Station, Eandolph Company, and Alkali Station for one, Florissant, 
White Eiver, and Elko for a second. The materials obtained at the first 
are too scant to afford any indication of their reference to any ijarticular 
stage of the Tertiary ; they may represent a lower group than that of 
the Florissant, but what is said of the relationshii) of these plants au- 
thorizes a contrary conclusion. Considers the flora of Florissant prob- 
ably synchronous with that of the Oligocene of France. 

lY. Miocene flora : 

(1) Description of Miocene species from specimens obtained in the 
so-called Bad Lands of Dakota. The following are new species : Asple- 
nium tenerum, Equisetum glubosum, Quercus Dentoni, Ficus artocarpoides, 
Tetranthera prwcursoria, Cinchonidium ovale, Viburnnm daliotense, V. 
Dtntoni, Aralia aeerifolia, Acer gracilescens, Rhus Winchellii, Prunus 
dakotensis, Gercis truncata. 

(2) Description of Miocene species of California and Oregon. The 
following species are new : Betula parce-dentata, Alnus corrallina, A. car- 
pinoides, Quercus Breweri, Ulnus pscudo-americana, Ficus asiminafolia, 
Laurus grandis, L. salicifolia, L. californica, Greicia auriculata, Allan- 
thus ovata, Myrtus oregonensis, Golutca howeniana. 

(3) Contributions to the Miocene flora of Alaska. The following spe- 
cies are new: Thuites {Ghama;cyparis) AlasJcensis, Comptonia cnspidata, 
G. prccmissa, Betula Alaskana, Alnus corylifolia, Quercus Dallii. 

(4) Species of plants from the chalk bluffs of California, 

(5) Table of distribution of the Xorth American Miocene fossil plants. 

(6) Eemarks on the species of Miocene plants. The author concludes 
that as the fossil floras of Carbon and the Bad Lands are related bv 
ten identical species, and those of the Bad Lands and Alaska by thir- 
teen, these three groups apparently represent the same stage of the 
North American Miocene. The flora of Carbon has only four species 
identified in that of Alaska, but their lesser degree of afliuity may be 
ascribed to difference in latitude. 

Lesquereux, Leo. — Contributions to the Fossil Flora of the Western 
Territories, part in. Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. xxvii, p. 560. August, 
1885. New York. 

Notice and brief abstract of Professor Lesquereux's vol. viii of Rep. 
Geol. Surv. Terr., under F. V. Hayden. 4to series. 



736 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Mackay, a. H. — Organic Siliceous Eemains in the Lake Deposits of 
Nova Scotia. Canadian Bee. ScL, vol. i (1884-'85), pp. 236-244. 
Montreal. 

Divides the deposits as follows : First, eartby muds ; second, black 
or brownish slimy muds; third, whitish siliceous muds, consisting 
nearly entirely of the cell-walls of the diatomaceae and the spicules of 
fresh- water sponges, which are found to be present in classes first and 
second also, although in less comparative abundance. Gives a list of 
one hnndred and four species of diatomaceae identified from the sili- 
ceous material ; also gives a list of the species of living sponges whose 
spicules abound in the deposits. 

Marcou, Jules. — The Taconic System and its Position in Stratigraphic 
Geology. I'roe. American Academy of Arts and Sciences, new series, 
vol. XII, pp. 174-256. 1885. Cambridge. 
Many lists of fossils are given. The "Taconic System" comprehends 
all the strata in which the Primordial fauuaj are found. These fauuje 
are three in number. The Infra-Primordial, including the most ancient 
fossils of Newfoundland, among which as yet no trilobite has been found 
with certainty. The Primordial fauna, properly so-called, that of Bo 
hemia and Scandinavia, and which is represented in America by the 
Paradoxides and Olenellus beds. The Supra-Primordial fauna, found 
at Hof, in Bavaria, at Yestfosen, near Ghristiania, in Norway, and else- 
where in Europe. On Lake Champlain it includes certain colonies of 
the second fauna of Barrande, and is terminated by the "Potsdam sand- 
stone," ini-ludiug the "Saratoga limestone," with Primordial fossils dis- 
covered by Walcott. 

Marcou, J. B. — Progress of North American Invertebrate Palaeon- 
tology for 1884. Amer. Nat., vol. xix, pp. 353-360. April, 1885. 
Philadelphia. 

A brief sketch of the palaeontologic work done in 1884. A more ex- 
tended review is published in the report of the Smithsonian Institution 
for 1884. 

Marcou, J. B. — A Keview of the Progress of North American Inverte- 
brate Pala3ontology for 1884, Smithsonian Report for 1884, No. 610, 
pp. 1-20. (1885. Washington.) 

An attempt has been made to give a brief idea of the contents of 
each work, the new genera and the species described, and the general 
conclusions of the authors. 

Marcou, J. B. — (Progress of North American Invertebrate Palaeon- 
tology for 1884.) Nature, vol. xxxii, p. 116. 1885. London and 
New York. 
Notice of Mr. Marcou's paper in the American Naturalist. 



X 



X. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 737 

Marcou, J. B. — (Identification of Fossils and Strata of the Great Sioux 
Eeservation.) The Lignites of the Great Sioux Reservation, a Report 
on the Region between the Grand and Moreau Rivers, Dakota, by 
Bailey Willis. Bull. U. 8. Geol. Surv. ,:So. 21, i). U. 1885. Wash- 
ington. 

A stratigraphic list of the fossils collected by Mr. Willis. 

Marcou, J. B. — A List of the Mesozoic and Ceuozoic Types in the Col- 
lections of the U. S. National Museum. Proc. U. 8. National Museum, 
vol. VIII, pp. 290-344. 1885. AVashington. 

Matthew, G. F. — Recent Discoveries in the Saint John Group. Cana- 
dian Bee. Sei., vol. i (l8S4-'85), pp. 136-141. Montreal. 

This article also appeared in the Bull. Wat. Hist. 8oc. New Brunswick, 
No. IV, pp. 97-102. 1885, Saint John, New Brunswick. 

Matthew, G. F. — A New Genus of Cambrian Pteropods. Canadian 
Bee. Sci., vol. i (1884-'85) pp. 149-152, figs. 1-3 on p. 152. Mon- 
treal. 

Describes from the Saint John group, the new genus Camerotheca, 
with the new species C. gracilis as the type. He refers to this genus 
Hyolithes danianus {Bull. No. 10 U. 8. Geol. Survey). In a note the 
author states that, after seeing the specific description of Eichwald's 
typical species S. acutus, he considers it necessary to place Camerotheca 
as a subgenus of Hyolithes. 

Matthew, G. F. — An Outline of Recent Discoveries in the Saint John 
Group. With a Letter of Prof. Alpheus Hyatt relative to the Ptero- 
pods. Bull. Nat. Hist. 8oc. New Brunsiciclc, No. iv, pp. 97-102. 1885. 
Saint John, New Brunswick. 

Gives a general sketch of the Saint John group and its fauna. Con- 
siders it to more nearly represent the Solva group than the>Menevian. 
{8te Hyatt, Alpheus.) 

Matthew, G. F. — L n the Probable Occurrence of the Great Welsh 
Paradoxides, P. Davidis, in America. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. 
XXX, pp. 72, 73. July, 1885. New Haven. 

The author states that he has received from ]\Ir. J. P. Ilowley, direc- 
tor of the Geologiial Survey of Newfoundland, fragments which appear 
to belong to the species Paradoxides Davidis. They occur in a hard 
black silico-calcareous shale at Highland's Cove, Trinity Bay, New- 
foundland, in company with species of Agnostus, A. punctuosxis Aug., A. 
Iwvigatus Dalm., A. Acadicus Hartt (var. decUvis Matthew). These fos- 
sils indicate a new horizon in the Paradoxides beds of America some- 
what above that of Braiutree, or the known horizons of Newfoundland 
and New Brunswick. [It may also occur in the Cambrian slate of 
Saint John, New Brunswick.] 
H. Mis. 15 47 



738 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18«5. 

Matthew, G. F. — (On the Probable Occurrence of the Great Welsh 
Faradoxides {P. davidis) in America. Nature, vol. xxxii, p. 358. 
1885. London and ISTew York. 

Notice and abstract of Mr. Matthew's paper in the Amer. Jour. Sci. 

Matthew, G. F. — Note on the Genus Stenotheca. Geol. Mag., new 
series. Decade III, vol. ii, pp. 425, 426. September, 1885. London. 

Eemarks on species from the Saint John group of Nova Scotia. The 
author mentions five species as occurring in the Saint John group, and 
makes some remarks on their af&nities and habitat. 

Matthew, G. F. —Notice of a New Genus of Pteropods from the Saint 
John Gi'oup (Cambrian). Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxx, pp. 293, 
294, figs. 1-3 on p. 294. October, 1885. New Haven. 

Describes the new genus Diplotheca acadica Hartt, sp. var. crassa, D. 
Hyattiana, and D. Hyattiana var. caudata. 

Matthew, G. F. — Illustrations of the Pauna of the Saint John Group 
continued. On the Conocoryphea, with further remarks on Paradox- 
ides. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada, vol. ii, section iv, 1884, pp. 99-124, 
pi. i. (1885. Montreal.) 

The author gives further descrii:)tions of Paradoxides acadicus, fig. i, 
of the young of the species ; also describes Paradoxides lameUatus Hartt, 
figs. 3 and 4. On fig. 5 the author reproduces a pygidium incorrectly 
figured in connection with his former paper. {See fig. 15, pi. x, vol. i. 
Trans. Boy. Soc. of Canada.) The author suggests that the name Para- 
doxides Micmac be applied to the species fig. 8, pi. x, vol. i. Trans. Roy. 
Soc. of Canada. This is probably the specimen figured in "Acadian 
Geology." The author divides Conocoryphea into two groups : Ctenoce- 
phalus Oorda and Conocoryphea Corda ; gives a detailed description of 
Ctenocephalus M atthewiHnr tt sp. (figs. 6-21, pp. 103-111) and its devel- 
opment and growth. The same thing is done for Conocoryphe Baileyi 
Hartt sp. (figs. 22-27, pp. 111-114), and Conocoryphe elegans Hartt sp. 
(figs. 28-34, pp. 115-119). The author also describes the new species 
Conocoryphe Walcotti (figs. 36 and 36&, pp. 119,120). Makes general 
comparisons and conclusions on pp. 120-123. 

[Milne, Edwards H.].— Structure des Trilobites. Ann. des Sci. Nat., 
Sixi^me S6r., vol. xii. Art. 3, p. 33, pis. i-iii. 1881. Paris. 
A review of C. D. Walcott's Organization of Trilobites. (Not seen.) 

Morris, Charles. — The Primary Conditions of Fossilization. Proc. 
Acad. Nat., Sci. Philad., vol. — , pp. 97-101. J uly, 1885. Philadelphia. 

An interesting paper containing some slight discrepancies and with 
some of the premises of which many people will disagree. The author 
reaches the conclusion that "fossilization of animal forms was not pos- 
sible until, after a long period of evolution, the power of secreting hard 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 739 

external coverings was gained. The author says that there can be no 
question that the trilobite had foes stronger than himself, against whom 
he found defense only in his chitinous armor," but he says nothing of 
the necessity of weapons of attack in these supposed foes. 

Morris, Charles. — Attack and Defense as Agents in Animal Evolu- 
tion. Froc, Acad. Nat. ScL, Philad., vol. — , pp. 385-392. December, 
1885, Philadelphia. 

Early fossilization is due to the preservation of the dermal skeletons 
of animals of considerably advanced organization, and those were proba- 
bly preceded during a long era by soft- bodied forms of low organization. 
Yet, after the advent of armored animals, it is probable that the seas 
were still tenanted by numerous soft-bodied forms, mainly swimmers, 
the progenitors of the many naked ocean swimmers which still exist. 
Later the tendency is no longer to assume armor, but to throw it off 
and return toward the unprotected condition. Finally, in the human 
species, even the covering of hairs is nearly lost, and in external condition 
the highest form of animal life approaches the lowest. The armored 
cephalopods have gradually disappeared till only the Nautilus remains. 
The unarmored forms have rapidly increased until they abundantly 
people the modern seas. The changes described have taken place under 
the influence of one of the most active' agents in evolution, that of the 
reciprocal influence of attack and defense on animal structure. Thus 
we seem to perceive four successive ideas emerging into prominence in 
the development of the animal kingdom. In the primaeval epoch it is 
probable that only soft-bodied animals existed, and the weapons of as- 
sault were the tentacle, the thread cell, the sucking disk, and the like 
unindurated weapons. At a later period armor became generally 
adopted for defense, and the tooth became the most efficient weapon of 
attack, till later armor was discarded, and flight or concealment be- 
came the main method of escape, and swift pursuit the principle of at- 
tack, while claws were added to teeth as assailing weapons. Finally, 
mentality came into play, intelligence became the most efficient agent 
both in attack and defense, and a special development of the mind be- 
gan. 

The article is so condensed as to render it difficult to give a brief sy- 
nopsis of it. 

Meyer, Otto.— The Genealogy and the Age of the Species in the South- 
ern Old-Tertiary. Amer. Jour. ScL, 3d ser., vol. xxix, pp. 457-468; 
vol. XXX, pp. GO-72, and 421-435, figs, a-c, on p. 70. June, July, and 
December, 1885. New Haven. 

The author considers that the succession is just the contrary from 
what has ordinarily been supposed, the Vicksburg being the oldest, 
and the Claiborne the most recent formation. The article is divided 
into three parts. 



14-0 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Part I. The genealogical relations of the species. In the first part 
the author characterizes and i^artly describes the following new species: 
Discoflustrellaria JacTcsonensis, Limopsis radiatus, Astarte sulcata^ var. 
Jachwnensis, A. {Micromeris) parva Lea, var. Viclcsburgensis, Venericar- 
dia diversidentata, V. parva Lea, var. JaclcsonensiSy Y. inJlaMor, V. in- 
flatior var. Jaclcsonensis , CytJierea Jaclcsonensis, Tcllina Vickshurgensis 
Conrad, var. robusta, Periploma Claihornensis Lea, var. parva, Mactra 
inornata, Corbula Willistoni, Dentaliuni subcompressum, Z>. Leai, D. 
Danai, Cadulus Jaclcsonensis, G. Vicksburgensis, Teinostoma subrotunda, 
T. angularis, T.VerrilU, N'atica decipiens, Distortrix Jachsonensis, Fusns 
BoeUgeri, Turbinella huniUior, Fulgur filius, Marginella incurva Lea, var. 
Jacksonensis, Oliva media, Pleurotoma excuJpata, Conus protracta, G. 
Jacksonensis, Actwon annectens. Gives a table showing the successional 
relations of the Vicksburg, Jackson, and Claiborne species. 

Part II. The age of the Vicksburg and the Jackson beds. This part 
is mostly made up of bibliographical extracts and the author's inter- 
pretation of former writers' works; he describes the new species 8cal- 
pellnni Uocenense from stratum b of the Claibornian. The author's views 
the relative .ages of the formations have already been cited above. 

Part III. Reply to criticisms. The author defends his views against 
the criticisms of E. W. Hilgard, E. A. Smith, and T. H. Aldrich, in the 
October number of the Amer. Jour. Sci. 

Meyer, Otto. — (The Genealogy and Age of the Species in the Southern 
Old Tertiaries.) N'ature, \o]. xxxii,^. 358. 1885. London and New 
York. 

Notice of Dr. Meyer's paper in the Amer. Jour. Sci., parts i and ii. 

Meyer, Otto. — The Classification and Palaeontology of the U. S. Ter- 
tiary Deposits. Science, vol. v, No. 125, p. 516. June, 1885. Cam- 
■ bridge. 

Mr. Meyer refers people interested in his article to the second part of 
it in the July number of the American Journal. 

Meyer, Otto. — The Classification and Palaeontology of the U. S. Ter- 
tiary Deposits. Science, vol. vi, No. 133, pp. 143, 144. August, 1885. 
Cambridge. 

An answer to Mr. AngeloHeilpriu's criticism on his work, published 
in Science, July 31, 1885. 

Neumayr, M.— J. E. Whiteaves: On the Fossils of Coal-Bearing De- 
posits of the Queen Charlotte Island, collected by Dr. G. H. Dawson 
in 1878. Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada. Mesozoic 
Fossils, vol. I, part 3. 1884. Montreal. On the Lower Cretaceous 
Rocks of British Columbia, Transactions of the Eoyal Society of Ganada, 
Sect, iv, 1882, S. 81. Neu. Jahrb. fur 3Iin. Geol. & Pal, 1885, Band 
ii, pp. 115-117. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 



N. A. INVKRTKRRATK PAT./EONTOLOGY. 741 

Newberry, J. S. — Description of some Peculiar Screw-like Fossils from 
the Chemuug Kocks. Ann. X. Y. Acad. iSci., vol. iii, June, 1885, No. 
7, pp. 217-220, pi. xviii. New York. 

Describes the new genus Spiraxis and two species under it, S. major 
and S. RandaUi, from the Chemung group in Northern Pennsylvania 
and Southern New York. No definite opinion is given as to the affini- 
ties of the genus. 

Newberry, J. S. — Some Peculiar Screw-like Casts from the Sand- 
stones of the Chemung Groui^ of New York and Pennsylvania. 
Trans. JV. Y. Acad. Set., vol. in, 1883-'84, pp. 33, 34. • 1885. New York. 
The new genus Spiraxis and species 8. major and S. RandalU fully 
described and figured in the Annals, vol. in. No. 7. The present de- 
scriptions were read December 3, 1883. 

Newberry', J. S. — (Some Peculiar Screw-like Fossils from the (Jhemung 
Eocks of Northern Pennsylvania and Southern New York.) Pop. Sci. 
Monthly, vol. xxvii, p. 719. September, 1885. New York. 
A notice and abstract of Professor Newberry's article in the Annals 

of the New Yorh Academy of Sciences. 

Nicholson, H. a., and Etheridge, Kobert, Jr. — On the Synonymy, 
Structure, and Geological Distribution of Solenoptera coii/ipacta, Bill- 
ings sp. Geol.Mag., new series. Decade III, vol. ii, pp. 529-535, pi. 
xiii. December, 1885. London. 

Describes and discusses the relations, occurrence, and varieties of the 
fossil mentioned, originally described from the Black River limestone 
under the Siromatopora compacta Billings. 

Nicholson, H. A., and Foord, A. H. — On the Genus Fistulipora Mc- 
Coy, with descriptions of several species. Annals and Magazine of 
Natural History, 5th series, vol. xvi, pp. 49G-517, pis. xv-xviii, figs. 
1-6, pp. 497, 501, 507, 513, and 514. December, 1885. London. 
Describes Fistulipora utriculus Eominger, from the Hamilton group 
at Arkona, Ontario, Canada, and F. et iensis Eominger, from the Ham- 
ilton group at Canandaigua, Ontario County, New York. 

Packard, A. S. — Types of Carboniferous Xiphosura new to North 
America. Amer. Nat., vol. xix, pp. 291-294. March, 1885. Phila- 
delphia. 

From the Carboniferous beds of Pittston, Pa., the author describes a 
new species, Eupropis longispina. From Mazon Creek, Morris, 111., he 
describes a new species of Belinurus and one of Cyclus, two genera new 
to this continent, and a new genus, Dipcltis, which he places among the 
Gyclidce for the present; the specific names are Belimirus laccei, Cyclus 
americanus, Dipeltis diplodiscus. Fuller descriptions, with illustrations 
and measurements, will be published subsequently. 



742 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Packard, A. S. — The Syncarida, a Group of Carboniferous Crustacea. 
Amer. JVat, vol. xix, pp. 700-703. July 1, 1885. Philadelphia. 

Presents the conclusions of a paper read at the last meeting of the 
National Academy of Sciences. The author considers the Syncarida as 
a suborder, standing near or at the base of the Thoracostraca, not far 
from the Siomapoda and Schizopoda., and with appendages closely homo- 
logous with those of these two groups. In their lack of a carapace and 
in the well formed dorsal arch of the seven thoracic segments, we are 
obliged to consider them as an annectant group, pointing to the exist- 
ence of some extinct group which may have still more closely connected 
the sessile-eyed and stalk-eyed Crustacea. 

[Packard, A. S.] — On the Gampsonychidae, an Undescribed Family of 
Fossil Schizopod Crustacea. Amer. Ifat., vol. xix, pp. 790-793. Au- 
gust, 1885. Philadelphia. 

Abstract of a paper read at the April meeting of the National Acad- 
emy of Sciences. The study of about a dozen specimens of Palwocaris 
typus Meek and Worthen, has led the author to compare the genus with 
Gampsonyx^ and the result has led to the formation of a family or higher 
group for the two genera, which should properly staiid at the base of 
the Schizopoda., while also serving to bridge over the chasm existing 
beween the thoracostracous suborders Syncarida and Schizopoda. This 
group may be called Gampsonychidm. The principal character which 
separates this group from all other schizopods is the entire absence of a 
carapace. When we comi)are the Gampsonychidce with the Syncaridce 
(Acanthotelson) we see that both groups have the same number of body 
segments and that both lack a carapace ; and thus while the Gampsony- 
cJiidw are the ancestors of living schizopods, the group as a whole proba- 
bly descended from Acanthotelson, which is thus a truly synthetic form, 
standing in an ancestral relation to all the Thoracostraca, while it also 
suggests that the sessile-eyed and stalk-eyed Crustacea may have had 
a common parentage. 

Packard, A. S. — On the Anthracoridje, a Family of Carboniferous 
Macrurous Decapod Crustacea, allied to the Eryonidte. Amer. Nat., 
vol. XIX, pp. 880, 881. September, 1885. Philadelphia. 

Abstract of an article read before the National Academy of Sciences 
in April, 1885. The author has had opportunity of studying specimens 
of Anthrapalwmon gracilis Meek and Worthen. The newly observed 
characters are the carapace with its rostrum, showing that the Ameri- 
can species in these respects closely resembles the European ones fig- 
ured by Salter, the founder of the genus. Moreover, specimens show 
the entire thoracic legs, while the antennae of both pairs were almost 
entirely shown. The fact that the first pair of thoracic feet were scarcely 
larger than the succeeding pairs shows that Anthrapalcemon cannot be 
placed in the Eryonidce, but should form the type of a distinct group 
of family rank, none of the existing Tliacn^m- having such small anterior 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY. 743 

legs. At the same time the Carboniferous Anthracarkkc were probiibly 
the forerunuers or ancestors of the Mesozoic and later Uri/onidce. From 
the nature of the differentiation of the telson in the Galatheidcc the 
author is inclined to believe, from what he has observed from the speci- 
mens before him, that the telson of Anthrapalccmon is subdivided in 
nearly the same manner. If so, the genus cannot be referred to the 
Eryonidcc, and should therefore be regarded as the type of a distinct 
family, which he calls A^itlvracaridce, and briefly characterizes. 

Peach, B. K — Ancient Air-breathers. Xature, vol. xxxi, pp. 295-298, 
figs. 1 and 2 on pp. 296 and 297. 1885. London and New York. 
A general review of Palaeozoic scorpions ; cites the genus Eoscorpius 
Meek and Worthen. States that Professor Lindstrom shows that Pa- 
Ixcoplioneus nuncius was a land animal and a true air-breather. Con- 
siders that Gyrichnites, of the Lower Devonian of Gasp6, may have been 
animals which supplied food to the ancient scorpions. 

Peach, B. N. — (Notice of.) (A Compendium to our Knowledge of the 
Ancient Scorpions, Nature., January 29, 1885.) Amer. Nat., vol. xix, 
p. 706. July, 1885. Philadelphia. 

Cites Meek and Worthen's description of Eoscorpius in 1866. 

Perry, J. H. — Note on a Fossil Coal Plant found at the Graphite De- 
posit in Mica Schist, at Worcester, Mass. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., 
vol. XXTX, pp. 157, 158. February, 1885. New Haven. 

Eeports finding two specimens of Lepidodendron referred to Lepido- 
dendron {Sagenaria) acuminatum Goeppert, by Prof. L. Lesquereux, who 
says that they are the first specimens seen by him from America. Prof. 
C. H. Hitchcock considered the mica schist of Huronian age. 

PoHLMAN, Julius, and Whitfield, E. P. — An American Silurian 
Scorpion. Science, vol. vi. No. 135, j)p. 183, 184, fig. on p. 183. Sep- 
tember, 1885. Cambridge. 

Mr. Pohlman states that the scorpion described by Professor Whit- 
field on pages 87 and 88 of Science, vol. vi, is undoubtedly a young spec- 
imen of Eusarciis scorpionis (Grote and Pitt; Bulletin of the Buffalo 
Society of Natural Sciences, vol. iii, pp. 1, 2), so named by an error, 
and which will be redescribed as Eurypterus scorpionis in the forthcom- 
ing vol. V of the society's bulletin. He gives a figure of the youngest 
specimen in his possession. 

In a note Professor Whitfield gives his reasons for not believing the 
fossil described by him to be the young of that or any other Eurypteroid. 

EoGERS, W. B. — A Eeprint of Geological Eeports and other Papers on 
the Geology of the Virginias, by the late William B. Eogers, pp. 
i-xv, and 1-832, with six plates of fossils and maps in pockets. 1884. 
New York. 

Contains, amongst the other papers, a reprint of " On the Age of the 



744 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



Coal Eocks of Eastern Virginia," from Transactions of the Association 
of American Geologists and Naturalists, 1840-42. Contains descrip- 
tions of plants with one plate. Also a reprint of " Contributions to the 
Geology of the Tertiary Formations of Virginia," by W. B. Eogers and 
H. D. Eogers, from the Transactions of the American Philosophical 
Society, Philadelphia, 1835 and 1837. Contains descriptions of Miocene 
and Eocene fossils, with five plates. 

[Eogers, W. B.]. — Geology of the Virginias. Science, vol. vi, No. 126, 
pp. 17, 18. July, 1885. Cambridge. 

A review of " Eeprint of Geological Eeports and other Papers on the 
Geologj' of the Virginias," by the late William B. Eogers. 1884. New 
York. 



ScuDDER, S. H. — The Geological History of Myriopods and Arachnids. 
Eighth annual address of the retiring president of the Cambridge 
Entomological Club. Psyche, vol. — , pp. 245-250. January-March, 



1885. 



Cambridge. 



A summary of our knowledge of the geologic history of the two 
groups. The author also gives two tables of the geological distribution 
of Myriopods and of Arachnids. {See Scudder, S. H., in the Amer. Nat., 
vol. XIX, p. 1210, December, 1885.) 

Scudder, S. H. — Description of an Articulate of Doubtful Eelationship 
from the Tertiary Beds of Florissant, Colo., Memoirs of the National 
Academy of Sciences, vol. iii, pp. 1-6, figs. 1-3 on p. 3 (read at Wash- 
ington, April 20, 1882), published 1885. 

The form is called Planocephahis * aselloides. Three figures of it are 
given on page 3 ; its relations are carefully discussed, and the author 
concludes that its place is among the Tliysanura, between the Cinura 
and the Symphyla; that it is of equivalent value to them, and for this 
new group proposes the name of Ballostoma. 

Scudder, S. H. — New Genera and Species of Fossil Cockroaches from 
the Older American Eocks. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., vol. — , pp. 
34-39. April, 1885. Philadelphia. 

Describes the new genus PromyJacris,i and the species P. ovale, and 
the new genus Paromylacris\ and the species P. rotundnm. These 
two genera of Mylacridw are from the Carboniferous deposits of Mazon 
Creek, Illinois. Of the Blattinarice he describes the following new 
genera and species from the Triassic beds of Fairplay, Colo. : Spilo- 
blattina § S. Oardineri, S. triassica, 8. guttata, S. marginata, Petrahlattinn 



* Planocepbalus n. g. from itXavdoo, HEq>ciXi'f. 
t Ttapoi, fxvXaycpi'i. 



t Ttpo, j.LvXaupi'i. 
% tfffiAo?, Blattiiiiu 



N. A. INVERTEBRATK PALAEONTOLOGY. 74;") 

ccqua, P. Meieri, Foroblattina,* P. arcnata, P. Lalesii, and Oryctoblattina 
occidua from the Carboniferous of Mazon Creek, Illinois. 

ScuDDER, S. H. — New Genera and Species of Fossil Cockroaches. An- 
nals and Magazine of Natural History, 5th ser., vol. XV, pp. 408-4.4. 
May, 1885. London. 

Reprinted from the Proc. Acad. Kat. Set. PhUadeJphia, vol. — , March 
10, 1885, pp. 34-39. 

ScuDDER, S. 11. — Notes on Mesozoic Cockroaches. Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. 
Philad., vol. — , pp. 105-115. July, 1885. Philadelphia. 

These notes are divided into three parts. The first is on Pterinoblat- 
tina,j a remarkable type of Palwohlattina ; Blattapluma Giet is the 
type of the new genus, and the following new species are described 
under it: P.penna, P. intermixta; Blattina ehrysea E. Geinitz, Becania 
hospes Germ., and R. gigas Weyenb., are also referred to it. The second 
part is on "Triassic Blattarife from Colorado." In it two new genera 
and several species are described: Neorthroblattina.,1 N. albolineata, N. 
Lal-esiij JV. rotundata, K. attenuata, Scutinoblattina,^ S. Brongniarti, S. 
intermedia, S. recta. The third part is "On the genera hitherto pro- 
posed for Mesozoic Blattarise." This is a brief revisionof these genera. 

ScuDDER, S. H. — Notes on Mesozoic Cockroaches. A^indls and Maga- 
zine of Natural History, 5th series, vol. xvi, pp. 54-64. July, 1885. 
London. 

A reprint, from the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PMlad., 1S85, pp. 105- 
115. 

ScuDDER, S. H. — The Eelations of the Paleozoic Insects. Amer. Nat, 
vol. XIX, pp. 876-878. September, 1885. Philadielphia. 

Abstract of a paper read by Mr. S. H. Scudder at the April, 1885, 
meeting of the National Academy of Sciences. The author states that 
while we may recognize in the Palaeozoic rocks insects which were plainly 
precursors of existing Heterometabola, we may yet not call these Ortlwp- 
tera, Neuroptera, &c., since ordinal features icere not differentiated ^ but 
all Palaeozoic insects belonged to a single order which, enlarging its 
scope, as outlined by Goldenberg, we may call Pakeodictyoptera ; in other 
words, the Palaeozoic insect was a generalized Hexapod, or more par- 
ticularly a generalized Heterometabolon. Ordinal differentiation had 
not begun in Palaeozoic times. 

We find, then, that the entire change from the generalized hexapod 
to the ordinarily specialized hexapod was made in the interval between 
the close of the Palaeozoic period and the middle, we may say, of the 
Mesozoic. These significant changes were ushered in with the dawn of 
the Mesozoic period, and the Triassic rocks became naturally (together 

* Tfopo?, Blattiiiw. \7trsptvo?. t veoi, op^o's. ^dnvrivoS. 



74-G SCIENTIFIC Rl'CORD FOR ISSr). 

with the Silurian) the most important, the expectant ground of the stu- 
dent of palaBontology. 

It would then appear that the geological history of winged insects, so 
far as we know from present indications, may be summed up in a very 
few words. Appearing in the Silurian period, insects continued through- 
out Paleozoic times as a generalized form of Heteroniefahola, which, for 
convenience, we have called Palceodictyoptera, and which had the front 
wings as well as the hind wings membranous. 

On the advent of Mesozoic times a great differentiation took place, 
and before its middle all the orders, both of Heterometahola and Metahola, 
were fully developed in all their essential features as they exist to day; 
the more highly organized Metabola at first in feeble numbers, but to-day, 
aud even in Tertiary times, as the prevailing types. The Metabola have 
from the first retained the membranous character of the front wings, 
while in most of the Seterometahola, which were more closely and di- 
rectly connected with Palaeozoic types, the front wings were, even in 
Mesozoic times, more or less completely difierentiated from the hind 
wings as a sort of protection covering to the latter, and these became 
the principal organs of flight. 

ScuDDER, S. H. — (A Contribution to the Geological History of Myrio- 
pods and Arachnids, in Psyche). Amer. Nat., vol. xix, pp. 1210, 1211. 
December, 1885. Philadelphia. 

An abstract of Mr. Scudder's article in Psyche. 

The great Archipolypoda resemble the Diplopoda in having two pairs 
of legs on every segment ; while in the Protosygnatha only a single pair 
of legs is borne by each segment, and the group thus resembles the 
Ghilopoda. For a brief period after leaving the e^g:,., modern diplopods 
and pauropods have a shorter body than in after life, and the first three 
segments bear but a single pair of legs. In adult life these first three 
segments still bear but a single pair of limbs, while all the other seg- 
ments, both those which exist in the larval state and those which de- 
velop afterwards, bear two pairs. The Chilopoda have these same 
anterior pairs of limbs early and permanently developed as organs of 
manducation, while all other segments have but a single pair. Palseon- 
tologic evidence is in favor of the view that the dorsal scutes of Diplo- 
poda are compound. The archipolypodous type is the oldest, and there 
is evidence that some of the Carboniferous forms were amphibious. The 
group culminated in the Carboniferous, and does not appear to occur 
later than the Dyas, while, with one doubtful exception, no true diplo- 
pod is known to be older than the Oligocene. According to S. H. Scud- 
der, between twenty and thirty species of pre-Tertiary Arachnida are 
now known, and the earlier forms, chiefly of Carboniferous age, belong 
either to the Scorpionides or to the Anthracomarti, a group which is 
not known later than Palaeozoic times, the only Mesozoic arachnids yet 
known being true spiders. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALiEONTOLOGY. 747 

Seely, H. M. — A new Genus of Chazy Sponji^es, Strepliochetus. Amcr. 
Jour. ScL, 3(1 ser., vol. xxx, pp. 355-357, figs. 1-3 on p. 356. Novem- 
ber, 1885. New Haven. 

Describes the new genus Strephochehis* of which IS. oscellatus is de- 
scribed as the type. It occurs in connection with well recognized Chazy 
forms, and especially with Maclurea magna. It is found in place in the 
town of Addison, Bridport, &c., in Addison County, Vermont. 

Smith, E. A. — Remarks on a Paper of Dr. Otto Meyer on " Species in 
the Southern Old Tertiary." Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxx, pp. 
270-275. October, 1885. New Haven. 
Criticises Dr. Otto Meyer's views, corrects his quotations of Sir 

Charles Lyell, and oflers two kiiids of evidence of the superposition of 

the white limestone above the Claiborne sands, (a) evidence from direct 

superposition, (b) from geographical position. 

Steinmann, Gustav. — A. H. Ford : On Three new Species of Monticu- 
liporoid Corals. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 5, vol. xiii, pp. 338-342, 
and xu, 1884. Neu. Jalirh. fur Min. Geol. & Pal, 1885, Band ii, p. 
205. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 

IJHLia V. — A. Hyatt : Fossil Cephalopoda in the Museum of Compara- 
tive Zoology. Proceedings of the American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science, vol. xxxii, August, 1883. 8vo. Ncii. Jahrh. 
fur Min. Geol. t& Pal, 1885, Band i, pp. 324-329. Stuttgart. (Ab- 
tract.) 

Wachsmuth, C, and Barris, W. H.— Descriptions of new Crinoids 
and Blastoids from the Hamilton Group of Iowa and Michigan, pp. 
1-2!), pis. i, ii, figs. 1-3 on pp. 9 and 13. 

This is a collection of several articles. The first is taken from the 
Proceedings Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences, vol. iv, p. 7C, as 
are also the two plates, and probably the articles also ; but I have no 
means at present of ascertaining that fact. The various articles are as 
follows : 

(1) On a new Genus and Species of Blastoids, with Observations 
upon the Structure of the Basal Plates in Codaster and Pentremites. 
By Charles Wachsmuth. [This article, which appeared in the Geolog- 
ical Report of Illinois, vol. vii, p. 346, has been revised by the author.] 

(2) Descriptions of some new Blastoids from the Hamilton Group. 
By W. H. Barris. [This article also appeared in the Geological Report 
of Illinois, vol Vii, p. 357.] 

(3) Description of a new Crinoid from the Hamilton Group of Michi- 
gan. By Charles Wachsmuth. Describes Megistocrinus eoncavus as a 
new species. 

(4) Descriptions of some new Crinoids from the Hamilton Group. 



'arp'F(f)u, I twine; hxrrbc:, canal. 



748 SCIENTIFIC RECORD P^OR 1885. 

By W. H. Barris. (Presented before the DavcDport Academy of Sci- 
ences, 1883.) Describes the new variety Megistocrinus nodosus, var. 
multide-coratus and Dolatocrinus triadactyhis. 

(5) Stereocrinus Bairis. (Eevised.) By W. H. Barris. 

Wachsmuth, Charles, and Springer, Frank. — Revision of the Pa- 
Iseocrinoidea. Part iii. Discussion of the Classification and Rela- 
tions of the Brachiate Crinoids, and Conclusion of the Generic De- 
scriptions. Proc. Acad. JSFat. Sei. Philad., vol. — , pp. 225-364, pis. 
iv-ix. December, 1885. Philadelphia. 

An author's edition with a distinct pagination has also been pub- 
lished. This contains only the first section of ^'part iii. The second 
section, containing the Articulata and Inadmiata, has been referred by 
the Philadelphia Academy to their Proceedings of 1886. The authors 
give an elaborate discussion of the structure of the Palceocrinoidea, which 
they divide into three groups. The name " Camarata^^ is proposed for 
all Palceocrinoidea, in which the lower arm plates are incorporated into 
the calyx by interradial plates, and in which all the component parts 
of the test, dorsally and ventrally, are solidly connected by suture. 
Under the name " Articulata^^ they include those families in which the 
plates of the test are united by loose ligaments or muscles, and in which 
they are somewhat movable. The name ^^ Inadunata^^ is proposed for 
all Palceocrinoidea in which the arms are free above the first radials 
and which have five single interradials located ventrally. The pre- 
liminary discussion is subdivided under the following heads : 

(1) The plates of the abactinal system. A. The basals and uuderba- 
sals. B. The radial and arm plates. C. The interradial, interaxillary, 
and interbrachial plates. From the observations under this head the 
authors draw the following conclusions, viz: (1) Interradials are rep- 
resented in all groups of the Palceocrinoidea. They were developed in 
the larva, attained at once large proportions, and persisted through life 
or were resorbed on approaching maturity. (2) They extend invari- 
ably to the proximals, or even cover them completely. (3) They are 
more extravagantly developed in the earlier groups, not always in num- 
ber, but by extending over comparatively larger space. (4) In all 
groups in which the arms are free from the first radials they are repre- 
sented by only five single plates, and these are located ventrally. 
Groups with two or more radials have two at least, and the number 
increases in proportion to the increase of the radials, by means of which 
the lower series attain gradually a dorsal position. D. The anal 
plates and anal tube. 

(2) The plates of the actinal system. A. The summit plates. The 
authors think that the orals, if these are developed in Palceocrinoidea^ 
which they think is the case, can only be represented by the central 
plate. A resorption of the summit plates may have taken place in the 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALiEONTOLOGY. 749 

later Inadunata ; throughout the Camarata they persisted through life. 
B. The veutral perisome. 

(3) The relations of the Palceocrinoidea to the Neocrinoidea. Give a 
definition of the two groups. 

(4) Classification. The following classification is adopted, viz : 

Phylum Echinodermata. 

Class Pelmatozoa. 

Subclass I. Anthodiata. Subclass II. Crinoidea (Brachiata). 

Order I. Cystidea, &c. Order III. Palaeocrinoidea. 

Order II. Blastoidea. Order IV. Neocrinoidea. 

Definitions of the class Pelmatozoa and subclass Crinoidea are given. 

(5) The subdivisions of the Palwocrinoidea. These have already been 
mentioned. 

The suborder Camarata is divided into ten families, which are de 
fined ; they are as follows : (A) Beteocrinidw, (B) Rhodocrinidce, (C) 
Glyj)tasterkkVj (D) Melocrinidw, (E) Acthiocrinidw, (F) Platycrinidw, 
(G) IIexacri)iidw, (H) Acrocrinidce, (I) Barrandeocrinidw, (J) Euca- 
lyptocrinidai. Under the first family, Beteocrinidw, the new genus Can- 
istroerinns* is described. Under the second family, Rhodocrinidce, the 
new genus Bhaphanocritiusf is described. Under the third family, Glyp- 
tasteridw, the new genus Ptychocrinus\\'& described. 

The work contains descriptions of the genera that were not consid- 
ered in parts i and ii, and the results of the authors' further studies in 
their bearing on the genera heretofore discussed. The figures have 
been very well drawn by M. Orestes St. John. 

Walcott, Charles D. — Palaeontology of the Eureka District. Pop. 
Sci. 3Ionthly, vol. xxvii, p. 134. November, 1885. New York. 

Notice and very brief abstract of Mr. Walcott's Monograph, U. S. 
Geol. Survey, vol. viii. 

Walcott, Charles D. — Description of the [Deer Creek, Arizona] 
Coal-field. (Letter from the Secretary of the Interior, transmitting, 
in compliance with law, letter of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 
with report upon the coal on the White Mountain Reservation in Ari 
zona. Senate Ex. Doc, No. 20, Forty-eighth Congress, second session 
Appendix i, pp. 5-7. 1885. Washington.) 

Gives a list of the fossils collected from the Carboniferous and De- 
vonian limestones. Refers the coal-beds to the Cretaceous, and gives 
the genera of plants found in them, as identified by Mr. L. F. Ward. 



* Kdvid rpov, a willow basket ; xpivov, a lily. 
iPdq}avo?, a radish ; xpivov, a lily. 
t IItv^, a fold ; xptvov, a lily. 



750 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Walcott, Charles D. — Palseoutologic Notes. Amer. Journ. tSci., 3d 
ser., vol. XXIX, pp. 114-117, pi. on p. IIG. February, 1885. New Haven. 
In this paper Mr. Walcott publishes a list of the species he found in 
the Hartt collection from the Saint John group of New Brunswick, at Cor- 
nell University. He proposes and defines a new genus of the Obolidcc, 
Linnarssonia n. g., Walcott, 1885. Illustrations accompany the de- 
scription of this new genus ; figs. 1 and 2 are given as those of Oholella 
ohromatica, and credited to Mr. Billings. The artist, in preparing the 
figures, copied, by mistake, those of Oholella crassa Ford. 

Walcott, Charles D. — Palaeozoic Notes ; new Genus of Cambrian 
Trilobites, Mesonacis. Amer, Journ. ScL, vol. xxix, pp. 328-330, figs. 
1 and 2 on p. 329. April, 1885. New Haven. 
Describes the new genus Mesonacis from the Middle Cambrian, at 

Parker's quarry, Georgia, Vt., and substitutes the name Bailiclla for the 

subgenus Salteria, proposed by him in Bull. No. 10, U. 8. Geol. Survey. 

1884. Washington. 

Walcott, Charles D. — Description of Mesonacis, a new Genus of 
Cambrian Trilobite. Amer. Nat., vol. xix, p. 707. July, 1885. Phila- 
delphia. 
(Notice. See Walcott, Charles D. Amer. Jour. Sci., April, 1885.) 

Walcott, Charles D. — Palaeozoic Notes ; new Genus of Cambrian Tri- 
lobites, Mesonacis. Nature, vol. xxxii, p. G8. 1885. London and 
New York. 
Notice of Mr. Walcott's paper in the Amer. Journ. Sci. 

Walcott, Charles D. — Note on some Palaeozoic Fterpods. Amer. 

Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxx, pp. 17-21, figs. 1-6 on p. 20. July, 1885. 

New Haven. 

Describes the new genus Matthevia, of which 3£. variabilis is described 
as the type from Cambrian limestone resting on Potsdam sandstone, 
1 mile northwest of Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Records some additional 
characters of Ilyolithes {Camarotheca) Emmonsi Ford. 

The characters of Matthevia diifer so much from all described forms 
of Pterojpoda that the author proposes the new family Matthevidce to re- 
ceive it. 

Walcott, Charles D. — Note on some Paheozoic Pteropods. Nature, 
vol. XXXII, p. 358. 1885. London and New York. 
Notice and abstract of Mr, Walcott's paper in the Amer. Journ. Sci. 

Ward, L. F. — The Fossil Flora of the Globe. The Botanical Gazette, 
vol. IX, pp. 1G9-174. November, 1884. Indianapolis. 
Abstract prepared by the author of a paper read before the Amer. 

Assoc. Adv. Sci. 1884. Philadelphia. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 751 

Historical vieAv, pp. IGd, 170 ; Geological view, pp. 170, 171 ; Botani- 
cal view, pp. 171-174, aud a table showing the " Number of Species of 
each of the Principal Types of Vegetation that have been found Fossil 
in each Geological Formation ; also, the number existing at the present 
time, as nearly as it is possible to ascertain, together with the percent- 
age that each type forms of the total flora of each formation," pp. 172, 
173. 

Ward, L. F. — A Glance at the History of our Knowledge of Fossil 
Plants. Science, vol. v, pp. 93-95. January, 1885. Cambridge. 

Ward, L. F. — Chronology of the Fossil Flora. Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. 
XXVI, p. 574. February, 1885. New York. 

A brief abstract of Mr. Ward's review of what is known of the fossil 
flora of the globe before the Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci. 

Ward, L. F.~ Historical View of the Fossil Flora of the Globe. Proc. 
Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. xxxiii, part ii, pp. 493-495. 1885. Salem. 

Abstract. Says that the first attempt to place vegetable palaeontol- 
ogy on the footing of a systematic science was made by the Rev. Henry 
Steinhaver, of Bethlehem, Pa., in a paper read before the Amer. Phil. 
Soc, and published in its '' Proceedings " for the year 1818. 

Ward, L. F. — Geological View of the Fossil Flora of the Globe. Proc. 
Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. xxxiii, part ii, pp. 495, 496. 1885. Salem. 

(Abstract. Gives the number of species occurring in the different 
formations.) 

Ward, L. F. — Botanical View of the Fossil Flora of the Globe. Proc. 
Amer. Assoc. Adv. ScL, vol. xxxiii, part ii, pp. 496, 497. 1885. Salem. 

Abstract. Gives an account of the first appearance of types of the age 
of the maximum relative predominance of each type, and of the proba- 
ble true period of origin and of maximum absolute development of each 
type. 

Ward, L. F. — Evolution in the Vegetable Kingdom. Amer. Nat, vol. 
XIX, pp. 637-644 and pp. 745-753. July and August, 1885. Philadel- 
phia. 

An inquiry as to what vegetable palaeontology has to present in favor 
of evolution in plants. The subject is considered under three somewhat 
distinct points of view, the historical, the geological, and the botanical. 
Gives a diagram (p. 749) representing graphically the development of 
plant life through the successive geologic ages. Gives a diagram show- 
ing the progress of each of the leading types of plant life in the differ- 
ent geologic ages (p. 752). 

Ward, L. F. — Evolution in the Vegetable Kingdom. Nature, vol. 
xxxiT, p. 568. 1885. London and Now York. 
Notice of Mr. Ward's i^apor in the American Naturalist. 



752 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Ward, L. F. — Fontaine's Older Mesozoic Flora of Virginia. Science, 
vol. V, No. 113, pp. 280, 281. April, 1885. Cambridge. 

A review of " Contributions to the Knowledge of the pider Mes- 
ozoic Flora of Virginia, by William Morris Fontaine. Washington, 
1883. 12-144 pp., 54 pis. Monographs of tbe U. S. Geological Survey, 
No. VI." The reviewer, while differing slightly from Mr. Fontaine's 
analysis of the facts, agrees with him in correlating the Richmond 
coal-fields with the Khaetic of Europe. The reviewer further states 
that the '^ seven Jurassic species are mostly from the Lias, or Lower 
Oolite, which, while not negativing the Ehsetic character of the Vir- 
ginia beds, does seem, when coupled with the rest of the evidence, 
to negative their Triassic character." From this remark it would seem 
that the reviewer considers the Rhaetic as of Jurassic rather than Tri- 
assic age, a conclusion he is hardly justified in assuming. 

Ward, L. F. — Lesquereux's Cretaceous and Tertiary Flora. iScience, 
vol. V, No. 116, pp. 348, 349. April, 1885. Cambridge. 

A review of " Contributions to the Fossil Flora of tbe Western Terri- 
tories. Part iii. The Cretaceous and Tertiary Floras, by Leo. Les- 
quereux. Rej). TJ. S. Geol. Survey Terr. F. V. Hayden, U. S. Geolo- 
gist, in charge. Vol. viii, pp. 12, 238, pis. 59. 4to." 1884. Govern- 
ment. Washington. 

White, C. A. — Tbe Application of Biology to Geological History ; a 
presideutal address delivered at the fifth anniversary meeting of the 
Biological Society of Washington, January 24, 1885. Proc. Biol. Soc. 
Washingto7i, vol. iii, pp. 1-20. 1885. Washington. 

Concludes that the field geologist and paheontologist must work in 
concert. Indeed, the field geologist who ignores the use of fossils, as 
some have affected to do, is sure to burden science with the results of 
worthless work, and the palaeontologist who does not goto the field and 
study there the formations from which his fossils have been obtained is 
sure to produce results of work which will be worthy of the condemna- 
tion of both geologists and biologists. 

White, C. A. — Notes on the Jurassic Strata of North America. Amer. 
Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxix, pp. 228-232. March, 1885. New Ha- 
ven. 

A criticism of Mr. J. F. Whiteaves's views as expressed in "Mesozoic 
Fossils, vol. I, part iii, Geol Survey, Canada, 1884." The author criti- 
cises the identification of nine species of fossils from the Cretaceous strata 
of British Columbia with fossils considered Jurassic in the United 
States, and considers the identity of the beds containing them as in no 
measure j)roved. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY. 753 

White, C. A. — Xotes on the Jurassic Strata of North America. Na- 
ture, vol. XXXI, p. 522. 1885. Loudon and New York. 

(Notice and abstract of Dr. White's article in the Amer. Journ. tSci- 
ence.) 

White, C. A. — The Genus Pyrgulifera, Meek, and its Associates and 
Congeners. Ainer. Journ. ScL, 3d ser., vol. xxix, pp. 277-280. April, 
1885. New Haven. 

Calls attention to the probable identity of the genus Pyrgulifera of 
the Bear Kiver group of North America, the fresh- water Upper Creta- 
ceous of Hungary, and the living shells in Lake Tanganyika. Dr. Leo- 
pold Tausch considers that he has found the type species, P. humerora, 
in Hungary. This wide extensive range of fresh or brackish water 
forms, both in time and space, is very difficult to understand and ex- 
plain, and has also an extreme interest in relation to the assumed equiv- 
alency of formations which bear similar faunas. 

White, 0. A. — (The Genus Pyrgulifera, Meek, and its Associates and 
Congeners.) Nature, vol. xxxii, p. 68. 1885. London and New 
York. 

Notice and abstract of Dr. White's paper in the Amer. Journ. Science. 

White, C. A. — On the Mesozoic and Cenozoic Palaeontology of Califor- 
nia. Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 15, pp. 1-33. 1885. Washington. 

The author considers that the Chico-Tejon groups are an unbroken 
series of strata, and together represent the closing epoch of the Creta- 
ceous and the opening or Eocene epoch of the Tertiary. The unbroken 
continuity of the series is best illustrated near New Idria, Fresno County; 
still, there is there, near the middle, a recognizable change in the aspect 
of the strata, so that in appearance, and to some extent in the character, 
of the stratification the upper half differs from the lower half. 

In the Shasta group Dr. White considers the Knoxville beds as older 
than the Horsetown beds. The Cretaceous of British Columbia and 
Alaska he considers as probably the equivalent of the Knoxville beds. 
This conclusion is based on the occurrence of Aucella. The author 
considers Aucella erringtonii and A. piocJdi Gabb as identical, and as 
varieties of Aucella concentrica Fischer, and on this account considers 
the so-called Jurassic auriferous slate as of the same age as the Knox- 
ville beds of the Shasta group, and considers the existence of the Ju- 
rassic in California as very doubtful. The fauna of the Knoxville beds 
of the Shasta group extends from Alaska southward at least as far as 
Central California. Some fossils from Southern Mexico apparently come 
from strata of the same age. No rocks of that age are known to exist to 
the eastward of the probable site of that belt ; and, finally, the Jurassic 
fauna of the strata which lie to the eastward of the assumed site of the 
belt is entirely different from that of the Jurassic strata to the west- 
ward of it. The author throws out the Martinez group and considers 
H. Mis. 15 48 



754 , SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

that there is an unbroken stratigraphical and faunal continuity from 
the Cretaceous to the Tertiary in the Chico-Tejon series. The Shasta 
group is divided into two divisions, the Knoxville beds and the Horse- 
town. The latter probably represents the Gault and the former the 
Lower ISTeocomian, and there is probably a hiatus between these two 
divisions. The Knoxville beds are regarded as having been synchron- 
ously deposited with the Avcella-hearmg strata which have been found 
at various points along the northwest coast of North America, and also 
as homotaxially equivalent with those which in Northern Europe and 
Asia bear the same species of Aucella. 

No sijecies of fossils yet found in the California Cretaceous rocks 
have been satisfactorily identified with any which occur in strata to the 
eastward of the Sierra Nevada. The reasons for this view are given in 
detail in the form of remarks on each specific identification. 

This difference in fauna is believed to have been due to the presence 
of a comparatively narrow but long continental belt w^hich existed in 
the region which now comprises that of the Pacific coast, continuing 
from a time at least as early as the earliest epoch of the Cretaceous 
l)eriod. 

White, C. A. — On Marine Eocene, Fresh-water Eocene, and other 
Fossil Mollusca of Western North America. BuU. TJ. S. Geol. Survey, 
No. 18, pp. 1-26, pis. i-iii, figs. 1-3 on p. 19. 1885. Washington. 

This article is divided into several parts, as follows : 

(1) The occurrence of CarfKtoj>/m?ico&'fa Lamarck in Western Oregon. 

(2) Fossil mollusca from the John Day group in Eastern Oregon. 
These fossils not only all belong to the types which are now living in 
or near the same region where the fossil forms are found, but a part of 
the latter are so nearly like the species that the author has not thought 
it advisable to separate them. The species are all different from any 
that have been hitherto known in a fossil's condition. The new species, 
TJnio condoni, is described, and the description of Helix {Monodon) dallii 
is given from Dr. E. E. C. Stearns's manuscript. 

(3) Su[)plementary notes on the non-marine fossil mollusca of North 
America. Some additions and corrections for the illustrations on page 
19 are made to the above work. 

White, C. A. — On new Cretaceous Fossils from California. Bull. U. 8. 
Geological Survey, No. 22, pp. 1-25, pis. i-v. 1885. Washington. 

The author regards the Todos Santos Bay locality, upon palseonto- 
logic grounds, as equivalent with the Wallala beds, which Dr. Becker 
considers similar to the Chico group. Dr. White thinks they probably 
occupy a position between the Chico and Shasta groups. At Wallala, 
Mendocino County, Dr. Becker found the strata several thousand feet 
thick, resting upon a metamorphic series which he believes to be equiva- 
lent with the Knoxville beds of the Shasta group, but he was unable to 
discover any contact with the strata above them. The character of the 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 755 

fossils seems to indicate for tliem the age of the Middle Cretaceous; 
aud in some respects tliey remind one of the Gosaii formation of Enroi)e. 
The author describes the new genus CoraUiochnma ; with C. orcutti as its 
type, he places it among the Chamidw. The following new species are 

also described : Trochus {Oxystele) euryostomiis, Nerita f, Cerithium^ 

P'dlingi, G. totium-sanctorum. Solarium wallalense. 

Whiteaves, J. F. — Report on the Invertebrata of the Laramie and 

Cretaceous Rocks of the Vicinity of the Bow and Belly Rivers and 

Adjacent Localities in the Northwest Territory, (jreol. mid Nat. Hist. 

8urv. Canada, A. 11. C. Selwyn, director. Contributions to Canadian 

Palteontology, vol. i, i^art i, pp. 1-89, pis. i-xi. 1885. Montreal. 

From the Laramie of the Willow Creek series the author describes 

Unio Alhcrtensis. From the -Saint Marj-'s River series and lower portion 

of the Laramie generally he describes the following new si^ecies: Ano- 

mia perstrigosa, Corhicula obliqua, CorhuJa perangulata, Fanopcca simul- 

atrix, P. curta, Acella f^Pliysa Copei, var. Canadensis, Acroloxus 

radiaiulus, Patula angulifera, P. ohtusata, AncMstoma parvulum, Valvata 
Jilosa, V. bieincta. ISTo new species are described from the Laramie of the 
Souris River district. 

The following new forms are described from the "Fox Hills" and 
"Fort Pierrft" groups of the Upper Cretaceous: Gervillia recta, var. 
horealis, 3fodiola {Brachydontes) dichoioma, Cyprina ovata,ysiT. alta, Pro- 
tocardia horealis, Panopwa subovalis, Scaphites subglohosus. 

The Belly River series, which the author thinks it would be imprac- 
ticable on purely palaeoutological evidence to separate from the Lara- 
mie and more especially from the " Judith River group." From the Pale 
or upper portion of the series, two new species are described, Crenella (?) 
parmila, Unio consuetus ; from the lower or yellowish and banded por- 
tion of the series the following new species are described : Unio supra- 
gibhosus, Ehytophorus {?) glaber, Planorbis paucivolvis, Hydrobia subcylin- 
dracea. A number of fossils are mentioned as occurring in the "Lower 
Dark Shales " of Dr. Dawson's report, but no more new species are 
described. A number of fossils are also mentioned from uncertain 
geological horizons. 

Whiteaves, J. F. — Notes on the possible Age of some of the Mesozoic 
Rocks of the Queen Charlotte Islands aud British Columbia. Amer. 
Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxix, pp. 444-449. eJune, 1885. New Haven. 

The author reviews some previously expressed opinions on the age of 
the Mesozoic rocks mentioned, as well as on the age of the Aucella- 
bearing rocks of Europe, and criticises Dr. AVhite's remarks on his 
identification of nine species with Jurassic fossils of the Territories. 

Whiteaves, J. F. — Notes on the i)ossible Age of some of the Mesozoic 
Rocks of the Queen Charlotte Islands and British Columbia. Nature, 
vol. xxxii, !>. ooS. 1885. London and New York. 
(Notice of Mr. Whiteaves's paper in the Ainer. Jour. Science.) 



756 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Whiteaves, J. F. — Description of a new Species of Ammonite from 
the Cretaceous Rocks of Fort Saint John, on the Peace River. Trans. 
Boy. Soc. Canada, vol. ii, section iv, 1884, pp. 239, 240. 1885. Mon- 
treal. (Read May 23, 1884.) 

The specimens were collected mostly from large concretionary nodules 
in shales which, from their position, may possibly represent the Fort 
Benton group of the Upper Missouri Cretaceous. The generic position 
of the species is doubtful, but the author proposes for it the name of 
Buchiceras (?) cornutum, although he says it is quite as likely to be an 
Acanthoceras or an HopUtes. 

.Whiteaves, J. F. — ]Jfote on a Decapod Crustacean from the Upper 
Cretaceous of Highwood River, Alberta, North West Terr. Trans. 
Roy. Soc. Canada, vol. ii, section iv, pp. 237, 238. 1885. Montreal. 
(Read May 21, 1884.) 

The specimen described is too imperfect to admit of the determina- 
tion of its exact generic position, but the author proposes for the i^res- 
ent to designate it as Soploparia (?) Canadensis. 

Whitfield, R. P. — An American Silurian Scorpion. Science, vol. vi, 
No. 130, pp. 87, 88, fig. on p. 88. July, 1885. Cambridge. 

Describes and names FalceopJionus Oshorni, from the waterlime beds 
of the Lower Helderberg group, at Waterville, Oneida County, New 
York. The author expresses doubt as to its being a land animal. 

Whitfield, R. P. — On a Fossil Scorpion from the Silurian Rocks of 
America. Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., October 10, 1885, vol. i, No. 6, 
pp. 181-190, pis. xix and xx, figs. 1, 2 on pp. 188, 189. New York. 

Proposes the new genus Froscorpius, and describes as its type P. Os- 
horni from the waterlime beds of the Lower Helderberg at Waterville, 
N. Y. The author places this species in the following manner: 

Order Scorpiouidea, Lund. 

Suborder Anthracoscorpii, T. & L. 

Family Eoscorpionidse, Scudder. 

Subfamily Proscorpioniui, Scudder. 

Genus Proscorpius, Whitfield. 

The species was previously named Palwophonvs Oshorni by him. 
[See Science, vol. vi, No. 130, p. 88.) 

Whitfield, R. P. — Notice of a new Cephalopod from the Niagara 
Rocks of Indiana. Bull. Amer. Mus, Nat. Hist., October 10, 1885, 
vol. I, No. 6, pp. 191, 192, pi. xxi. New York. 

Describes Lituites Bichnoreanus from the Dolomite limestone of the 
Niagara group at Wabash City, Ind. 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALiEONTOLOGY. 757 

Whitfield, R. P. — ^N^otice of a very large Species of Homalonotus 
from the Oriskany Saiidstoue Forraation. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., 
October 10, 1885, vol. i, No. G, pp. 193-195, pi. xxii. October. New 
York. 

Describes Homalonotus major from the Upper Oriskany? at Cranberry 
Dam, 5tli Binnewater, Ulster County, New York, collected by Louis 
Bevier. The " 5th Binnewater " the author supposes to refer to a dam 
of the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company's privilege on the Binne- 
water Creek. 

Williams, H. S. — C. A. White : A Review of the Fossils Ostreid:e of 
North America, and a comparison of the Fossil with the Living- Forms. 
With apj>endices by Prof. A. Heilprin and Mr. J. A. Ryder. 8. 273- 
430, Taf. xxsiv-lxxxii. Neu. Jahr. Min. Geol. and Pal., Jahr. 1885, 
Band ii, p. 292. Stuttgart. (Abstract.) 

Williams, H. S. — Geographical and Physical Conditions as modifying 
Fossil Faunas. Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. xxxiii, part ii, pj). 
422, 423. 1885. Salem. 

Abstract. The author says that "many other details might be men- 
tioned, all pointing to the one conclusion that, in passing over geo- 
graphical areas of sedimentary deposits of even a few hundred miles 
in extent, especially when the direction is vertical to the probable coast 
line of the period, the effects of those changed conditions recorded in 
the different nature and structure of the deposits, and of other con- 
ditions (july recorded in the fossils themselves, which were probal>ly 
differences of temperature and ocean currents, must be borne in mind 
in classifying the deposits." 

Williams, H. S.— Notice of a new Limuloid Crustacean from the De- 
vonian. Amer. Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxx, pp. 45-49, figs. l-3a, }>. 
48. July, 1885. New Haven. 

The specimen was found in the bluish sandstone (which in places is a 
fine pebbly conglomerate) at Le Boeuf, called the " third oil sand,'' by Mr. 
L C. White in the Report Q of the Second Geol. Survey of Pennsylva- 
nia (p. 239), and regarded by him as the equivalent of the third oil sand 
of the Venango oil district of that State. In the same stratum and 
above it are typical Chemung fossils. The author describes it under 
the name of Prestwichia Eriensis, and gives three figures of it on page 
48. 

Williams, H. S. — Notice of a new Limuloid Crustacean from the De- 
vonian Formations of Erie County, Pennsylvania. Nature, vol. xxxii, 
p. 350. 1885. London and New York. 
Notice and abstract of Mr, Williams's paper in the American Journal 

of Science. 



758 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

WiNCHELL, A. — Notices of ]Sr. H. Winchell on Liugula and Paradox- 
ides from the Eed Quartzites of Minnesota. Amer. Jonrn. Sci., 3d 
ser., vol. XXX, pp. 316, 317. October, 1885. IsTew Haven. 

Notice of the exhibition, by N. H. Winchell, at the meeting of the Amer, 
Assoc. Adv. Sci., at Ann Arbor, of a large slab from the " Pipestone quar- 
ries," covered with small shells named by him Lingula. From the same 
quarries a form, regarded as an imperfect Paradoxides, was also exhib- 
ited. [See Winchell, K H.) 

Winchell, A. — On Ccenostroma and Idiostroma and the comi)rehen- 
sive character of Stromatoporoids. Amer. Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol. 
XXX, p. 317. October, 1885. New Haven. 

An abstract of a paper read before the meeting of the Amer. Assoc. 
Adv. Sci., at Ann Arbor, by A. Winchell. The author concludes that 
it is vain to seek to place Stromatoporoids within the bounds of any rec- 
ognized class type. 

Winchell, Is . H. — Fossils from the Eed Quartzite at Pipestone. GeoL 
and Nat. Hist. Suri\ Minn., 13th Ann. Rep., for 1884, jjp. 05-72, pi. i. 
1885. Saint Paul. 

Describes and illustrates two new doubtful fossils, Lingula calumet 
and Paradoxides harheri. Also contains two letters on these dubious 
forms, one by Prof. J. D. Dana and the other by Mr. S. W. Ford. 

W^iNWOOD, H. H. — Geological Age of the Rocky Mountains. Geol. Mag., 
new ser.. Decade III, vol. ii, p. 240. May, 1885. London. 

Reports finding a Menevian fauna with abundant remains of Parad- 
oxides, Conocoryphe, and other allied forms north of the fort.y-ninth par- 
allel, and between the one hundred and sixteenth and one hundred and 
seventeenth i^arallels of longitude, near Kicking Horse Pass on the 
Canadian Pacific Railway. 

Woodward, Henry. — Notice of a new Limuloid Crustacean from the 
Devonian. By Henry Shaler Williams, of Cornell University. Geol. 
Mag., new ser.. Decade III, vol. ii, pp. 427-429. September, 1885. 
London. 

An abstract of H. S. Williams's article in the Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 
XXX, p. 45. July, 1885. New Haven. States that Mr. Williams's speci- 
men, although of great interest, is too obscure to permit us to draw any 
l)Ositive conclusions from it, save the fact of the important discovery of 
a Limuloid Crustacean in rocks of Devonian age in Pennsylvania. A 
still earlier Limuloid form has, however, been met with in the Upper 
Silurian of Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire, and described by Henry Wood- 
ward under the name of Neolimidus falcatns. {See Geol. Mag., vol. v, 
pp. 1-3, pi. i, fig. J, 1868.) 



N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY. 759 

Wright, B. II. — Notes ou tlie Geology of Yates County, New York. 

Tbirty-tiftU Rep. li. T. State Mtis. Nat. Eist., pp. 195-20G, pis. xv 

and xva. 1884. Albany. 

Copies the figures and descriptions of Dawson in the Quarterly 
Journal Geol. Soc. of Loudon for May, 1881, of the following fossils : 
Equisetides Wrightiana, Cydostigma affine, Asteropteris noveboracensis, 
and gives short lists of fossils from various localities. 



( 



ZOOLOGY. 



By Prof. Theodore Gill. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The laborers in the various fields of Zoology have prosecuted investi- 
gations in the year 1885 with undiminished ardor, and scarcely anj' 
department has been neglected. The tendency manifested for some 
years towards a special study of embryology and of animals from an 
embryological standpoint, has been continued. Systematic zoology, on 
the other hand, has at least maintained its course during the period, 
and some most valuable works have appeared. Among such may be 
especially mentioned the lirst two of the comtemplated tliree volumes 
of a catalogue of the Lacertilian reptiles in the British Museum, by Dr. 
George Edward Boulenger. A number of works on extinct animals, iu 
which groups have been systematically considered, have been also pub- 
lished. Doubtless the most important and interesting of these for the 
American zoologist are (1) the enormous volume by Prof. E. D. Cope 
on The Vertebrata of the Tertiary Formations of the West (Part i), and 
(2) Prof. O. C. Marsh's beautifully illustrated and printed "Diuocerata, 
a monograph of an extinct order of gigantic mammals." Both of these 
volumes do indeed purport on their title pages to have been printed in 
previous years, Cope's work bearing the imprint of 1883 and Marsh's 
that of 1884, but they were not really published or accessible to the pub- 
lic till early in 1885. 

As in the previous reports, the language of the original from which 
the abstract is compiled is generally followed as closely as the case 
will permit. It has, however, been found necessary to limit the ab- 
stract to the illustration of the prominent idea underlying the original 
memoir, and pass by the proofs and collateral arguments. At the 
same time it has been often attempted to bring the new discovery into 
relation with the previous status of information respecting the group 
under consideration. As to the special discoveries recorded, they have 
been generally selected (1) on account of the modifications the forms 
considered may force on the system ; or (2) for the reason that they are 
or have been deemed to be of high taxonomic importance ; or (3) because 
the animals per se are of general interest; or, finally (4), because they 

761 



762 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

i\re of special interest to the American naturalist. Of course zoologists 
cultivating limited fields of research will find in omissions cause for 
censure, and may urge that discoveries of inferior importance have 
been noticed to the exclusion of those better entitled to it. It is freely 
admitted that this charge may even be justly made; but the limits 
assigned to the record have been much exceeded, and the recorder has 
studied the needs of the many rather than of the few. The summary 
is intended, not for the advanced scientific student, but for those who 
entertain a general interest in zoology or some of the better-known 
classes. 

A partial bibliography of noteworthy memoirs and works relating to 
different classes of animals is supplied in the present article, and will, 
it is hoped, prove to be of use to those to whom the voluminous bibli- 
ographies and records of progress in science are inaccessible. It has 
been a dilificult matter to select the titles which might be most advan- 
tageously introduced in a limited report like the present. Articles of 
a general interest or of special importance as contributing to throw light 
on the affinities of certain groups have been given the first place. Neces- 
sarily many very important papers have not been referred to and very 
few descriptive of species have been admitted and only when unusual 
interest attaches to the new species or the groups which they enlarge 

The compiler desires to make special acknowledgment for most mate- 
rial assistance to the Zoologischer Anzeiger of Professor Carus, and to 
the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society, whose abstracts of in- 
vestigations have been freely drawn upon in the preparation of those 
for the present report. 

SYNOPSIS OF ARRANGEMENT. 
GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

I. PROTOZOANS. Ehizopods ; Sporozoans ; Infusorians. 
II. PORIFERS. Sponges. 

III. CCELENTERATES. Polyps ; Acalephs. 

IV. ECHINODERMS. Crinoids ; Asterioids ; Ecbinoids ; Holothu- 

rians. 
V. WORMS. Eotifers;Platyhelminths; Nematelminths; Annelids. 
VI. ARTHROPODS. Meiostomes; Crustaceans; Arachnids; Insects. 
VII. MOLLUSOOIDS. Polyzoans ; Brachiopods. 
VIII. MOLLUSKS. Acei>hals; Gastropods; Cephalopods. 
IX. PROTOCHORDATES. Tunicates. 

X. VERTEBRATES. Fish-like Vertebrates; Leptocardians ; Se- 
lachians; Fishes; Amphibians; Reptiles; Birds; Mammals. 

GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

Cell chanfjes. — A number of experiments have been made by Dr. O. 
Lacharias to deterrtiine the efl'ect of various media and environments on 
the behavior of cells. The mixture used by liim was a 5 per cent, solu- 



ZOOLOGY. 1C)?> 

tionof sodic phosphate in distilled water, and th3 objects experimented 
upon were especially the cylindrical spermatozoa of Blyphetnm pediculus, 
and the amoeboid cells of the intestinal epithelium of Stenostomnni leu- 
cops. The changes undergone were remarkable, and the amoebiform 
cells of the Stenostomum " became like flagellate infasorians, each with 
a long, thick, rapidly moving process, beside which two or three cilia 
were sometimes seen beating at the original much slower rate." These 
experiments, supplimenting previous ones, especially those of Schneider, 
Brass, and Kiihner, are '' interesting as illustrations of the readiness 
with which cells may pass from one phase to another in response to en- 
vironmental influences, and are thus full of suggestion in relation to 
normal and pathological cell variation, aifording additional experimental 
proof of the theory of a primitive cell-cycle, advanced by Geddes." 
{Biol CentralblaU, v. 5, pp. 259-262; J. i?. M. 8., (4) v. 5, pp. 1014, 1015.) 

Colors of cold-loving animals. — The colors of Arctic and Alpine ani- 
mals have been commented upon by Prof. Lorenzo Camerano, of Turin. 
His observations had reference especially to the Lepidoptera, and are 
in brief as follows : 

(1) " A sensible mutation of color is observed in many mammals, now 
more, now less distinctly, and generally it concurs with the change of 
coat. Also not seldom in mammals strictly belonging to the Alps," as 
in the chamois and the ibex, " the color changes very late in the summer 
and in the winter, although the length, the thickness, and also the 
coarseness of the hairs were very dift'erent." In other cases, as, for ex- 
ample, in a Chinese deer (Cervus mandarinus), " the coat is, in summer, 
light reddish-yellow, with many round white spots, while in winter it is 
dark brown, and the round spots are less numerous and are light brown." 

(2) "As to the insects, it is observed that in Coleoptera the colors of 
the Alpine species are brighter than those of the warmer plains," and 
various species found at the greatest elevations of the Alps have often 
lighter colors. 

(3) "A darker color " is observed " generally in the insects of the des- 
erts," as in that of Sahara, while — " on the contrary, mammals in these 
countries present in general a very light color." 

(4) " A very remarkable melanism is also observed in several mammals 
as well as the reptiles and beetles that are in little islands." 

(5) " In the reptiles and in the Alpine ami)hibia, we sometimes meet 
with some cases of darkening, but the cases of a remarkable brighten- 
ing are not very rare, as for example, in the tadpoles of Rana muta," a 
kind of frog. 

(C) " A sensible difference is observed in the coloration between the 
Arctic birds and the Antarctic. In the last, black is much more abun- 
dant." 

The causes " that intervene to modify the color of animals are very 
complicated; climate has amongst these a certain imjiortance," but 



764 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Professor Camerano does not think that a " theory of radiation is suflB- 
cient" to account for all the phenomena observed. {Nature^ v. 32, p. 77; 
see, also, reply by Mr. Meldola in same vol., i)p. 172, 173.) 

Temperature maxima for marine animals. — A series of experiments 
has been undertaken by Dr. J. Frenzel for the determination of the 
maximum heat under which certain animals can live. The first experi- 
ments were commenced by subjecting some to a temperature of 40° C. 
This was supported by a Holothurian for two hours. A Diopatra died 
in about five minutes; a large tectibranchiate gastropod (Pleurobran- 
chsea meckelii) exhibited at first lively movements, but after five min- 
utes became torpid, although it was not killed; four minutes were 
enough for a lobster-like crustacean (Scyllarus). "As the Holothurian 
was the largest of the animals experimented on, the author points out 
that, although the chief reason for its power of resistance might be 
sought for in its size, yet the others were conquered too rapidly." Con- 
sequently, it was to be inferred that the Holothurian is really capable 
of resisting heat to an vmusual degree. 

Further observations were made at a starting point of 30° C, and of 
the animals thus experimented upon an Ophiuroid ( Antodon) began to 
break up in two seconds ; the Diopartra survived for eighteen hours; a 
chsetopod worm (Terebella) showed the effect of heat at 25° C. ; a tecti- 
branchiate gastropod (Sea-hare or Aplysia) lived at 26°; a pectinobran 
chiate gastropod (Murex) "bore 30° for a long time;" and a Scallop 
(Pectera) " showed some resistance;" a Scyllarus " could bear 25°, bat 
died slowly at 26<^, and more quickly at 27° ; " and a prawn (Palsemon) 
"died at 26° ;" a fish (the Sea-horse or Hippocampus) "bore 27° well, 
and lived for an hour at 30°." 

In fine, "many marine animals were found to bear high degrees of 
temperature for an astonishingly long time, as Actinice, Murex, Tethys, 
and Aplysia. But it is not yet certain what heat they can permanently 
bear. It is also important to discover how winter animals comport 
themselves towards increase of temperature, and especially animals 
such as the Heteropoda and Phronima, which are quite wanting in the 
summer ; from what we know we must suppose that at the beginning 
of summer, when the temperature of the sea becomes raised, they make 
their way to greater depths, where the heat is less." {Arch./, gesammt. 
Physiol, V. 36, pp. 458-466 ; J. B. M. S. (2), v. 5, pp. 791, 792.) 

PROTOZOANS. 

RMzopods. 

Differentiation in Amcehas. — Although proverbially protean and un- 
stable, the Amcebeans nevertheless exhibit differences which aptly dis- 
tinguish them into forms generally considered to be of specific value; 
such, differences have been especially insisted upon by Dr. A. Gru- 
ber. Dr. Gruber contends that " there are a number of separate 
and exactly definable AmoebsB which do not pass into one another,'' 



ZOOLOGY. 



7G5 



and this decision he gives as the result of observations by himself "for 
months and even years, of forms living in the same locality." The 
differences are manifested in the " average size, the consistency of the 
protojilasm, and the movements thereby conditioned, as well as in the 
characters of its contents, such as vacuoles, granules," and crystals, and 
also, more especiolly, in the number, size, and structure of the nuclei. 
Ten species are described by Dr. Gruber ; five of them are multi-nuclear, 
and " it is proved how definitely the nuclei are distinguished from one 
another, and with what certainty one can conclude from external char- 
acters on the structure of the nucleus," and the reverse. It further 
follows that " two very similar species of Amcebee may have very dif- 
ferently-formed nuclei, and that in forms which are externally very 
different the nuclei may be quite similar ; in any case, the number of 
the different forms of nuclei is much more important than has hitherto 
been supposed." 

The " only differentiation in the body of an Amoeba obtains at the 
outermost periphery, where the protoplasm clearly, from contact with 
water, is converted into an invisible cuticula-like layer, which disap- 
pears during the outpushing of the pseudopodia and can be re-made." 

Dr. Gruber denies the existence of " a plexiform structure of the pro- 
toplasm" as well as refractive bodies, such as have been described to 
Pelomyxa jialustris. 

As to the " pale filaments" which have been found in some Amcebse, 
they "appear to be symbiotic fungi;" "in one species, which was re- 
markable for the constant collection of chlorophyll containing food, 
they were always present." 

Among the species of Amoebae recognized by Dr. Gruber is the A. vil- 
Zosn, first described by Dr. Leidy from specimens found about Philadel- 
phia, and the discovery in Europe of this species " confirms the doc- 
trine that the fresh-water Khizopods are cosmopolitan organisms." 
{Zeitschr.f. rcissen. Zoolo., v. 41, pp. 186-225, 3 pi.; J. B. M. S. (2) v. 6, 
pp. 260, 261.) 

Sporozoons. 

Development of Grerjorinids. — An imjiortant contribution to the devel- 
opmental history of the monocysted Gregorines has been j)ublished 
by G. Kuschhaupt. His observations were chiefly made on those in- 
festing common earth worms or Lumbricids. Seven species of Grego- 
rinids were found in the worms, which have been more fully described, 
at least as to some points, by the author. The process of encystation, 
the formation of sporoblasts, the presence of macrospores and micro- 
spores in a single cyst, and the entrance of spores into the sperm- 
mother-cell were especially observed in one or other of the Gregorinids 
mentioned. The connection between the Gregorinids and the generative 
products of the earth worms, the infection of earth worms with Grego- 
rinids, and the relations between the parasites and coccidia have been 



7(16 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1885. 

also considered. {Jenaische Zeitschr.f. Natiirwiss., v. 18, pp. 713-750 (1 
pi.); J. B. M. S. (2), V. 5, p. 665.) 

Infiisorians. 

Artificial multiplication of Infusorians. — With a view to determine the 
behavior of Infnsorians when vivisected, A. Griiber experimented on 
the Stentor ccer ulcus. (1) First, an individual was bisected transversely, 
and on the following day each of the parts had become a perfect indi- 
vidual ; (2) one of these was likewise bisected, and again on the follow- 
ing day the two sections had developed into perfect animalcules ; (3) 
one of the second bisection was also cut transversely, and again (4) one 
of the third bisection. In both instances the sectionized parts became 
perfect individuals on the day of their division. The result of the ex- 
periments thus noticed, and others, further served to show also that the 
sections without a nucleus, although they did well, " never grew up into 
complete animals," as did those with a nucleus. The presence of a 
nucleus, in fact, is perhaps a necessary element for complete regenera- 
tion. {Biol. Centralblatt, v. 5, p. 137 ; J. B. M. S. (2), v. 5, pp. 658, 659.) 

PORIFERS. 

Sponges. 

Beproduction of the frcsh-iraier sponge. — The reproductive process has 
been investigated by Dr. W. Marshall in one of the common European 
fresh-water sponges, Spongilla lacusfris. The gemmules or winter em- 
bryos are formed in the neuter autumn sponge from wandering nutri- 
tive amoeboid cells, known as trophophores, which accumulate in the 
inhalent corals or in the ciliated chambers. The embryo is at first a 
" morulalike mass of round uniform cells." It escapes from the cap- 
sule in which it is invested in April or early in May. In about a nionth 
after the escape of the embryo from the capsule, maturity and comi)lete 
sexuality are attained. " It seems probable that the males are desti- 
tute of enteric cavity and mouth," while the females are " usually pro- 
vided" with such. After fulfilling their sexual functions the "males 
seem to i)erish." The females bear "neuter forms" and then increase 
in size, but the " enteric cavities and mouth-openings are reduced in 
size, and not unfrequently disappear." In fine, there is " a seasonal 
alternation of generations ;. the winter gemraulpe form spring sexual 
spongillae which produce sexual forms in which arise the winter gem- 
mulse." {Sitzungsber. Katiirf Gesellsch. Leipzig, 1884, pp. 22-29; J. E. 
3L S. (2), V. 5, pp. 1011, 1012). 

CCELENTRATES. 

Polyps. 

A new family of Pennatulids. — The interesting group of Pennatulids, 
which was named by Kolliker the " Junciformes," has received an inter- 
esting addition during the past year, in the shape of a new species, rep- 



ZOOLOGY. 7G7 

resenting even a new family of the group; specimens were obtained in 
Japan and have been described by Prof. A. A. W. Hubrecbt under tlie 
specific name Echinoptilum MadntosUi and the family name Echinop- 
tilidfe. It belongs to the "section Spicataj," and (as just noted) "sub- 
section Junciformes" in Kolliker's classification, and is "characterized 
by the total absence of anything like an axis, which is present in all 
Pennatulids except some of the primitive Veretellea) and the divergent 
Eenilleae." 

The polyps form a dense colony, which is rigid on account of the de- 
velopment of calcareous needles, "which, on the rachis, unite to form 
projecting polyp cells." The needles are in the internal framework, 
as well as in the investment ; the polpycells are arranged in less dis- 
tinct rows than in Stachyptilum, and the ventral is not wholly de- 
void of polyps. Of all the specimens available for examination the 
polyps had undergone desiccation, and consequently could not be fully 
described. But it appeared plain that not only does the new type 
constitute a distinct family, but, according to Professor Hubrecht, it 
must be also recognized as representative of a group of higher rank in- 
termediate between the groups already known. {Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 
1885, pp. 512-518, 2 pi.; J. B. M. S. (2), v. 0, p. 81.) 

Acalephs. 

Radial disposition of Acalephs and Ecliinoderms. — The problem of the 
number of segments in the radiate animals has been taken up by Dr. W. 
Haacke, and he has sought to determine the primitive number of such. 
Professor Haeckel considered that the star fishes were nearer the ances- 
tors of the Echiuoderms than any other group, because in them there is 
a variation in the number of arms in some species, although in most the 
number is five, while in the sea urchins, or Echinoids, and Holothurians, 
the number is constant and always five. Dr. Haacke, however, main- 
tains that in Amblypneustes, one of the sea urchins, he has seen indi- 
viduals with four and others Avith six parameres or radial sections, and 
that therefore Haeckel's views are militated against by such facts. As 
to the Acalephs, according to Haeckel, the primitive number of par- 
ameres in the Meduste is four, and with this view Dr. Haacke is inclined 
to agree. He further thinks that it is possible that the typical number 
of parameres in the Echinoderms is four and not five, but he admits that 
the question is still an open one. {Zool. Anzeiger, v. 8, pp. 505-507 ; J. 
E. M. S. (3), V. 6, p. 48.) 

ECHINODERMS. 

Crinoids, 

Several important memoirs on crinoids have appeared during the 
past year, or late in 1884. One of these is by Dr. Herbert Carpenter, 
and furnishes a volume of the series of niemoir§ devoted to the elucida- 



768 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

tion of the material collected by the Challenger Exi)edition. Another 
is a systematic revision of the extinct American crinoids published in 
the "Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia" 
by Messrs. C. Wachsmuth and F. Springer. The concluding portion 
of the latter will be published in 1886. A further notice of these and 
other memoirs is therefore deferred. 

Asterioids. 

Nervous system of star- fishes. — In a memoir on the histology of Asterioids 
Dr. O. Hamann has elucidated several interesting, and among them 
is additional information respecting the nervous system. The well- 
developed oral nerve-ring has long been known, but besides this there 
is, according to Dr. Hamann, " a nerve-plexus in the oral disk ; this con- 
sists of nerve-fibrils with scattered ganglionic cells, which pass into the 
epithelial cells of the disk." In fact, an arrangement is manifested 
"comparable" to one previously observed by Dr. Hamann himself in 
the Holothurians. {Nachr. K. Gesellsch. Wiss., Gottingen, 1884, pp. 
385, 386; J. B. M. S., (2), v. 5, pp. 652, 653.) 

Echinoids. 

Compound eyes in Ecliinoids. — In a Diadematid (probably Diadema 
Setosum) occurring at Trincomalee, some peculiar characteristics have 
been discovered by Drs. C. F. and P. B. Larasin. That sea-egg is cov- 
ered with blue spots. One of these, when examined under the micro- 
scope, shows on the surface "a mosaic" of polyhedya ("generally irreg- 
ular hexahedra," but also peutahedra) which are so disj^osed as to call 
to mind the compound eyes of insects or crustaceans. "Bach polyhe- 
dron corresponds to a pyramid of very highly refractive substance, 
the blunt edge of which is invested in pigment;" there "may be one 
hundred or as many as one or two thousand pyramids in one spot; over 
all of tbem the body-epithelium forms a thin ciliated layer, which may 
be regarded as the cornea;" further, "each pyramid consists of a num- 
ber of vesicular cells with quite hyaline contents, and in many of them 
there is a distinct nucleus; this region may be regarded as that of the 
lens and crystalline body." These organs are "directly placed on a 
ganglionic i>lexus," and there is no distinct nerve intervening between 
the two. When a hand is directed towards a point where these organs 
are developed, the surrounding spines are seen to turn towards the 
spot. It has been therefore inferred that the spots in question have the 
junction of eyes capable at least of appreciating the difference between 
"light and shade." {Zool. Anzeigerr. 8, pp. 715-720; J. B. M. 8., (2), v. 
6, p. 253.) 

Holothurians. 

Values of differentiating characters. — The various parts and organs of 
the Holothurians have been examined by Dr. K, Tjampert, in order to 



zooLoaY. 7(>9 

determine the systematic values thereof and the best means of classify- 
ing the groups. "The arrangement of the ambulacral suckers varies 
with age." The calcareous deposits are much less variable, and in but 
few cases are there notable differences, according to age or otherwise. 
The tentacles appear to furnish tlie best difierentiating characters. The 
combination of DendrocMrofcc introduced by Prof. Jeffery Bell is adopted. 
Further, the distribution of the tentacles into one or two rows affords 
good grounds for a division into groups, to be called respectively, "il/o- 
nocycUa^^ and '■'■ HeterocycUa.^'' A new and systematic monograph of the 
order is promised by Dr. Lampert. {Biol. Centralhlatt, v. 5, pp. 102-109 ; 
J. E. M. 8., (2), V. 5, pp. 1007-1008.) 

■ 

WORMS. 

Botifers. 

The relations of the Rotifers. — Much diversity of opinion has prevailed 
as to the relations of the Eotifers to other classes of the animal king- 
dom. The subject has been taken up recently by Dr. L. Plate in con- 
nection with a monograph of the fresh-water rotifers observed by him. 
He considers that it is clear that " sexual dimorphism is an acquired 
character." The progenitor of the class ("Archirotator") is supposed 
to have had a cylindrical body narrower behind, a ventral mouth and 
dorsal anus, and an aboral tuft of cilia ; the wheel apparatus consisted 
of two ciliated circlets ; the fore-gut had a chitnious masticatory appa- 
ratus, and the whole tract was lined by ciliated epithelium ; into its hinder 
l)ortion opened two unbranched excretory canals and the genital ducts. 
The nervous system consisted of a dorsal central ganglion, which gave 
off several anterior and two posterolateral nerves. As to their system- 
atic position, the Eotifers appear to be of the same stock as the Anne- 
lids, but they differ from the Trochophore in wanting a ciliated groove ; 
the hinder circlet of cilia opens into the fore-gut, the aboral tuft does 
not correspond to the perianal circlet, and the brains are not homolo- 
gous." {Jenaische Zeitschr. f. Naturwiss., v. 19, pp. 1-120, 3 pi. ; J. B. M. 
S. (2), V. 6, pp. 76-78.) 

Platyhelminths. 

New York Turhellarians. — An important memoir on the fresh-water 
Turbellarians occurring especially in Monroe County, New York, has 
been published by Dr. W. A. SiUimau in the " Zcitschrift filr wissen- 
schaftliche Zoologie " (v. 41, pp. 48-78, with 2 pi.). Twenty-one species 
have been recognized, of which a considerable number, it is supposed, 
are common to America and Europe. Dr. Silliman considers the groups 
named Khabdocosla, Tridada, Polycloda, and i!«remertinea to be of approx- 
imately equal value and representing four "orders" of Turbellariiius. 
H. Mis. 15 49 



770 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

Nematelminths. 

Nervous system of tape-icorms. — Although the nervous system of the 
tape- worm was discovered half a century ago, the subje ;t has remained 
in considerable obscurity, and recent research by Dr. J. ISiemiec is 
therefore timelj^ as throwing light on some of the controverted and 
doubtful points at issue. Dr. Memiec's researches were based on sec- 
tions of the scolices of T. ccenurus, T. elliptica, T. serrata, and T. me- 
diocauellata. The dilferent parts are considered under four categories. 

(1) A ^^ nerve ring" situated under the hooks, from which "filaments 
run to the hook musculature, while from ganglionic swellings eight 
branches descend, four going to the principal lateral ganglia, and four 
prolonging their course even within the proglottides." 

(2) A " central ganglion" in the middle of the " principal commissure," 
joining the two lateral ganglia, and "from which a 'transverse commis- 
sure' passes at right angles to the ' principal.' " 

(3) ^^ Polygonal commissures,'" in the plane of the two chief commis- 
sures, formed by " nerves which unite the two lateral ganglia with the 
branches descending from the nerve-ring and with the transverse com- 
missure," and parallel to it, " a little below, there lies an 'inferior jiolyg- 
onal commissure ' of the same nature. Where the different brandies 
join, 'secondary ganglia' are situated, and from tliese, as well as from 
the principal lateral ganglia, the suckers are supplied with nerves, four 
to each." 

(4) " Spongy cords," ten in number, three pairs starting from the prin- 
cipal lateral ganglia and the remaining four (as already noted) "de- 
scending from the nerve-ring and passing through the ' secondary gan- 
glia.'" 

In conclusion Dr. Niemiec msists upon (1) the resemblance between 
the nervous system of the tape-worms and that of the Tetrarhynchi ; 
and (2) the homologies of the nerve-ring of the tape-worms with the 
oesoj)hageal ring of the annelids, " from which it differs only in its less 
pronounced develoj^ment or reversion to a more rudimentary form," 
and (3) the diminished gap which intervenes between the cestode and 
trematode nervous sj^stems. {Eecueil Zool. Suisse, v. 2, pp. 589-648 ; J. 
B. M. S. (2), V. C, pp. 75, 76.) 

Annelids. 

Beep sea Annelids. — The deep-sea types of a few classes, such as the 
fishes and Holothurians, are, to a large extent, much differentiated from 
the shallow-water forms, but those of other classes are comparatively 
little divergent from littoral species. Among the groups of the latter cat- 
egory are the Annelids. The rich material collected by the Challenger 
expedition has been the object of study to Prof. William C. Mcintosh 
for seven years, and the results thereof have now appeared in the form 
of a large quarto volume constituting the entire twelfth of the Chal- 
lenger reports. 



ZOOLOGY. 771 

■ Under the heading of " classification " (p. viii) Professor Mcintosh 
states that " the large number of new forms brought within our knowl- 
edge by the Challeuger would have been supi)osed to lead to a note- 
worthy change in classification, but from the first it was apparent that 
no new family was required. All the types fell under the groups already 
constituted, and which have been very satisfactorily given by Malmgren 
in his Annulata Polychceta " (1867). Much " experience has not as yet 
shown the necessity for any material change." It is admitted, however, 
that "there are some forms, such as the genus Eulepis" (retained in 
Polynoidse) which almost merit the distinction of a separate family, but 
they have only recently been discovered and may properly be left for 
further investigation." 

Two hundred and twenty new species are described by Professor Mc- 
intosh. 

ARTHKOPODS. 

Merostomes. 

Embryology and morphology of Limiilus. — The horse shoe crab, or Lim- 
ulus, has been the subject during the past year (as in previous years) of 
investigation with reference to its embryology, morphology, and sys- 
tematic relations. Of American naturalists. Dr. J. S. Kingsley has con- 
tributed an important memoir on the embryology of Limulus to the 
"English Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science" (v. 25, pp. 521-576, 
3 pi.), and Prof. Henry L. Osborn, Dr. W. K. Brooks, Mr. A. T. Bruce, 
and Mr. W. H. Howell have communicated preliminary notices of iu- 
vestigatons to No. 43 of the " Johns Hopkins University Circulars." 
One, by Professor Osborn, is on the "Metamorphosis of Limulus poly- 
phemus^^ (p. 1), a second, by Dr. Brooks and Mr. Bruce, is an " Abstract 
of Eesearches on the Embryology of Limulus polyphemus " (pp. 2-4), and 
a third, by Mr. Howell, is " On the Chemical Composition, &c., of the 
Blood of Limulus polyphemus " (pp. 4, 5). Dr. A. S. Packard has also 
published in the American Naturalist (v. 19) a supplementary memoir 
on certain points of the embryology of the same species. Important 
memoirs have been likewise published by Prof. E. Ray Lankester and 
several associates or students, in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscop- 
ical Science," and the " Transactions of the Zoological Society of Lon- 
don." 

Arachnids. 

Sense organ in legs of spiders. — The peculiar structural modifications 
of the legs which have been observed in certain spiders by Bertkau and 
Dahl, and considered to be sensory organs, have been studied anew by 
Professor Schimkenitscli. The structures in question have been found 
in most of the leg joints in a number of spiders, and in both males and 
females. They are superficially thin chitinous plates with thickened 
borders, whose opx^osite sides are connected by parallel thickenings, 



772 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

and in cross-sections are to be found " round these organs a layer of 
remarkably tall pigmented cells," and ''between these are ganglion cells 
with prolongations directed towards the chitinous layer." These are 
thought to be analogous to the "chordotonal organs" of insects. (Zool. 
Anseiger, 1885, pp. 264-266, 537, 538). 

Dimorphism in spiders, — Several observers have determined that cer- 
tain spiders have two broods, and that the individuals of the two differ 
more or less, in a few cases the differentiation having been considered 
as specific. The so-called Meta segmentata and Meta Mengei, for exam- 
ple, represent several broods of one and the same species. In other 
cases, however, there is but little ditfereuce between the two broods. 
{Zool. Anseiger, 1885, pp. 459-464, by Bertkau; 532, 533, by Korsch.) 

Crustaceans. 

A nervous system in the Centrogonida. — The singular degraded crusta- 
ceans, known as Peltogaster and Sacculina, which have been difieren- 
tiated into a distinct order called Ehizocephala or Centrogonida, have 
a nervous system so rudimentary and obscure as to have escaped ob- 
servation until the past year. Mr. Y. Delage resolved to supply the 
deficiency, and after two years of observation he found it in Sacculina, 
while in Peltogaster, on the other hand (although the absolute difficulties 
of the search were exactly the same as in Sacculina) he found it in the 
first individual dissected after less than an hour's work. He mentions 
this particular only to show the value of the morphological method, 
and if he found this nervous system it is by no means due to partic- 
ular address in dissection; it is because, armed with the morphological 
data derived from the study of Sacculina, he sought for it precisely 
where it ought to be found. When one knows where to look for it, he 
remarks, it is easy to find, but this last condition is indispensable, and 
it is from not having this requisite knowledge at their disposal that 
the numerous authors who have previously investigated the genera in 
question failed to discover it. The ganglia are displaced and in ap- 
parently different relations on account of the position of the ovaries 
and other parts. In these displacements, was the nervous ganglion to 
retain the original position at the bottom of the ovary, or was it to fol- 
low the cloaca, or the mesentery or the cement-glands? Observation 
has shown that it did not remain immovable ; therefore its relations 
with the declivous pole of the ovary are not at all essential; it had fol- 
lowed the cloaca and the mesentery, but especially the cement-glands, 
in their movements ; hence it is with these organs, and chiefly with 
the last named, that it has fundamental relations. On the other hand, 
we see that the close relations of the ganglion with the testes in Pelto- 
gaster are quite accidental, since in Sacculina these organs are as far 
apart as possible. Henceforward in seeking for the nervous system in 
other Centrogonida, in which the viscera may again affect new rela- 
tions, we see that we shall not have to pay any attention to the testes, 



ZOOLOGY. 773 

or to the anti-peduncular pole of the ovary, and that it is between the 
cement-glands, in the sagittal plane, and perhaijs slightly towards the 
cloaca and the cement-glands, that we must direct the forceps and the 
scalpel. It is only by the study of a type in which the cement-glands 
moy be far removed from the mesentery and the cloaca that we can see 
Avhether the nervous ganglion would entirely break off its relations 
with the latter two organs and follow the cement-glands in their dis- 
placement. {Comptes Rendus Acad. Sci. Paris, 1885, p. 1010; Ann. tfi 
Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 15, pp. 495-498.) 

Blind sessile-eyed crustaceans. — The structure of the brain in sessile- 
eyed crustaceans, and especially that of the Asellus communis and Ce- 
cidotaea stygia, has been investigated by Prof. A. S. Packard. The 
brain of such forms has not ganglion and cells with a simple nucleus, as 
does that of a lobster and other stalk-eyed crustaceans, but ten to twenty 
nuclei appear to a cell. The brain is therefore far less complicated than 
that of the stalk-eyed crustaceans and is " a syncerebrum, the compo- 
nents being the brain proper or pro-cerebral lobes, the optic ganglia, and 
the first and second antennal lobes," and these lobes are quite separate 
from each other. 

As to the blind species Professor Packard thinks that " the steps 
taken in the degeneration or degradation of the eye, the result of the 
life in darkness seem to be these : (1) the total and nearly or quite simul- 
taneous loss by disuse of the optic ganglia and nerves ; {2) the breaking 
down of the retinal cells; (3) the last step being, as seen in the totally 
eyeless form, the loss of the lens and pigment." Professor Packard 
considers this evolution to be explicable upon what may be called 
"Lamarckian" principles. {Mem. Nat. Acad. Sci., v. 3, part 14, p. 5.) 

Insects. 

Extinct myriopods. — As a result of a study of the fossil myriopods, 
Mr. Samuel H. Scudder has admitted two extinct orders. The Archi- 
polypodous type is the oldest, and Mr. Scudder considers that there is evi- 
dence that some of the Carboniferous forms were amphibious. The group 
culminated in the Carboniferous, and does not appear later than the 
Dyas, while with one doubtful exception no true diplopod is know to be 
older than the Oligocene. The Archipolypoda, which resembled the 
Diplopoda in having two pairs of legs to every segment, became extinct 
in the Palaeozoic epoch. Three families have been recognized, the 
Archidesmidae, Euphorberiidae, and Archijulidae. Another extinct type 
is found in the Protosygnatha, which are characterized by the develop- 
ment of only a single pair of legs to each segment, in which respect a 
resemblance is manifested to the Cliilopoda. One genus only, Palae- 
ocampa, is known from the Carboniferous. 

For a brief period after leaving the eggs, modern Diplopods and pau- 



774 



SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 



ropods have a shorter body than in after life, and the first three seg- 
ments bear but a single pair of legs. 

In adult life, these first three segments still bear but a single pair of 
limbs, while all the other segments which exist in the larval state, and 
those which develop afterwards, bear two pairs. The Chilopoda have 
the same three anterior pairs of legs, early and permanently devel- 
oped as organs of manducation, while all other segments have but a 
single pair. Palaeontological evidence is in favor of the view that the 
dorsal scutes of Diplopoda are compound. 

The sight of insects. — The power of vision of insects has been investi- 
gated by Prof. Felix Plateau, whose special aim was to determine 
whether insects can distinguish the form of objects. It has been con- 
tended by certain authors that such-insects as possess compound eyes 
cannot distinguish form, and that vision operates in a different way 
from that generally admitted, and consists mainly in the perception of 
movements. To some extent this view is sustained by Professor Pla- 
teau as the result of a series of experiments. He concluded from these 
that " insects only utilize their eyes to choose between 2k white luminous 
orifice in a dark chamber, or another orifice or group of orifices equally 
white. They are guided neither by odorous emanations, nor by differ- 
ences of color. A fact which will certainly astonish all entomologists, 
and likewise surprise the experimenter himself, is, that bees have as 
bad sight and comport themselves almost as flies." 

Professor Plateau directed his observations to many widely different 
insects, belonging to the orders of Diptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidotera, 
Odonata, and Coleoptera, and the experiments spoken of were essen- 
tially harmonious. The following conclusion resulted: 

(1) "Diurnal insects have need of a quick, strong light, and cannot 
direct their movements in partial obscurity. 

(2) "In diurnal insects with compound eyes, the simple eyes offer so 
little utility that it is right to consider them as rudimentary organs. 

(3) " Insects with compound eyes do not notice differences of form 
existing between two light orifices, and are deceived by an excess of 
luminous intensity as well as by the apparent excess of surface. In 
short, they do not distinguish the form of objects, or, if they do, dis- 
tinguish them very badly." {Am. JVa/., v. 20, pp. 69, 70.) 

Adherence of insects to ceilings. — There has been considerable differ- 
ence of opinion as to the method by which flies and insects generally 
adhere to the ceilings and walls of rooms and analagous surfaces, and 
the subject has recently been investigated by Herr H. DeWitz. His 
researches tend to prove that the secretions by which flies, for example, 
adhere to the window panes is not a thin fluid of a fatty nature, but 
much more consistent. He addnces experiments to controvert Eom- 
bout's view that a fly can maintain itself on a glass surface by one leg 



ZOOLOGY. 775 

only, if that surface be vertical and if the body of the fly be in contact 
with the glass. {J. R. M. S., Oct., 1885; Am, Nat., v. 20, p. 1221.) 

Insects of the coal period. — The additions to our knowledge of the in- 
sect fauna of the early periods of the earth's history have been very 
great during the past few years, and a deposit of species from the Car- 
boniferous beds at Conimentry, in the department of Allier, France, has 
contributed a number of new types and furnished data for forming an 
enlarged survey of the ancient insects. A French naturalist, Mr. C. 
Brongniart, has been able to study the remains of 1,300 specimens, 
among which not only the wings but sometimes the bodies have been 
preserved. He corroborates the impression that has already obtained, 
that the venation of the wings, which is generally so good a guide in the 
appreciation of recent species, not only fails to a large extent, but is 
even liable to lead into error in the case of the ancient forms ; neverthe- 
less, in spite of such discrepancies, the most ancient insects are, in some 
respects at least, surprisingly like those of the present time, and only 
difler in comparatively unimportant respects. 

Among the insects of the Commentry deposit occurs the first fossil 
Thysanuran, represented by 45 specimens. It is supposed to be re- 
lated to the existing Machilis, but differs from all living representa- 
tives of the order by having a single caudal filament. The species has 
been named Dasyleptus lucasi. ' 

The Orthopterous insects are represented by species which recall the 
Phasmids or leaf insects of our day, but are segregated by Brongniart 
in a special order under the name Neurorthoptera. Of this type two 
major groups or suborders, with numerous distinct generic types, refer- 
able to about five families, have been made known. 

The Homopterous insects were represented in the deposit by five 
genera. 

The Pseudo-neuroptera had forms that were still more varied ; six 
families have been recognized for the carboniferous species. (1) One was 
a group of eight new genera of a family to which the name of Megasc- 
copterida has been given: The abdomen had respiratory appendages 
and the problematical Breyeria Borinensis is regarded as being a species 
of the family. (2) Another family, called Protodonata, is recognized 
for forms somewhat resembling the dragon flies or Libellulidfe of the 
present age. Four other families, the Homothitida, Protepliemerina, 
Protoperlida, and Protomyrmeleonida, furnish additional species of the 
Pseudoneuroptera. {Am. Nat., v. 20, pp. 68, 69.) 

Gricl'ets infested hy Gordins or thread -worms. — Numerous insects har- 
bor Gordius or thread-worms during some portion of their life history, 
and some recent interesting observations were communicated by a lady 
of Groton, N. T., Mrs. C. W. Conger, to the Eev. Dr. Henry C. McCook. 
On one occasion she noticed that a cricket mounted upon the edge of a 
pail, and after some uneasy movements brought the tip of the abdomen 



776 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

just beneath the water, and, with a few violent throes, expelled a black 
mass, which fell slowly through the water, and before it reached the 
bottom resolved itself into one of the worms. " The cricket seemed ex- 
hausted by the horrid birth, and did not find strength to draw itself up 
on the edge of the pail for about eight minutes, and when it finally did 
so, it tumbled to the floor and crawled off in a very rheumatic manner. 
After this discovery we used to amuse leisure hours by watching like 
operations until frost killed the crickets. I sometimes would crush 
large crickets, generally with the result that a tightly-coiled snake 
would be thrust out of a rupture just above the tip of the abdomen ; 
but whether the snake was not sufficiently develoiied or because of its 
needing water rather than air to vitalize it, none of the snakes so pro- 
duced showed any signs of life." 

MOLLUSCOIDS. 

Polyzoans. 

Use of aricularm in classification of the Polyzoans. — The so-called 
chitinous j^arts (operculum and avicularia) of the Polyzoans had been 
much neglected until lately, but Messrs. A. W. Waters and G. Busk 
have paid special attention to such parts with decided benefit to the 
systematic arrangement of the chilos-tomata. The modifications of the 
operculum especially were described when practicable by Mr. Busk in 
his elaborate report on the species collected by the Challenger exi)edi- 
tion. The avicularian mandibles were also investigated to some extent 
by Mr. Busk ; and, according to Mr. Waters, " to him we must give the 
credit of first applying the form of the mandible in specific determina- 
tion." A fuller discussion "On the use of the avicnlarian mandible in 
the determation of the chilostomatous Bryoaoa or Polyzoa" has been 
contributed by Mr. Arthur W. Waters. Yarious points are discussed, 
but only a couple can be here noticed. "The process in the chitinous 
mandibles" Mr. Busk calls a columella, and says that "it is covered with 
short hairs," but these, upon comparison with other mandibles, turn out 
only to be the remains of the attachment of the muscular threads. In 
fine, the processes in the mandibles, especially of Cellepora and Adeona, 
" indicate differences in the muscular attachments, and both here and 
in the opercula it is really the muscular system which has the greatest 
classificatory value ; but this is best studied by means of the variations 
in the chitinous parts." (J. B. M. 8. (2), v. 5, pp. 774-779, pi. 14.) 

Brachiopods. 

Vascular and nervous systems of Brachiopods. — Some points in the 
structure of the Brachiopods are very difficult to determine for one rea- 
son or another, but new light is gradually being thrown on such. Sev- 
eral doubtful points have been investigated by Dr. F. Blochmann. The 
heart and its contractibility were early correctly observed by Professor 



ZOOLOGY. 777 

Hancock. Occasionally, as in tlie Argiope neopolitana, there are two 
hearts. On the other hand, in some forms, as Crania anomala, there is 
" no heart," but " numerous enlargements on the 'vein.'" The so-called 
" afferent brachial canal" of Ilaucock is now affirmed to be "really the 
supra- cesophogeal nerve," and "further, the plexus which Hancock de- 
scribes as circulatory, are really branching and anastomosing connec- 
tive tissue-cells." In one of the examined Brachiopods ( Crania anomala) 
the supra-oesophageal ganglion is replaced by a " narrow fibrillar com- 
missure." A "brachial vessel, sending off vessels to the cirrhi, runs 
along the whole length of the brachial sinus behind the ojsophagus, 
communicating by paired branches with the oesophageal blood-sinus, 
and so with the heart." {Zool. Anzeiger, v. 8. pp. 164-1G7 ; J. R. M. K 
(L»), V. 5, p. 440.) 

MOLLUSKS. 

Acephals. 

Action of the foot in bivalve mollusls. — The movements of the foot in 
Lamellibrauchs, or the bivalve mollusks, have been studied by Dr. A. 
Fleischmann. It is maintained that the so-called aquiferous i^ores in 
the foot are " neither the orifices of glands nor artefacts. This being so, 
the3' cannot serve as a means of communication between the blood vas- 
cular system and the surrounding water. Such streams of water as are 
seen on contraction are not normal vital phenomena, but are patho- 
logical. Even if there were pores, they could not, for mechanical rea- 
sons, have the functions that have been ascribed to them. The swelling 
of the foot is due to the entrance of a certain quantity of blood, which, 
during repose, is stored up in the pallial reservoirs ; the blood is aided 
by the closure of a strong valve and by the simultaneous relaxation of 
tlie musculature of the foot, the lacunse of which become filled by blood. 
When the foot undergoes erection there is no change of volume of the 
whole animal, but only a change in the volume of separate parts, due 
to the dislocation of the blood. It has not been proved that water is 
taken up by the kidneys or intercellular ducts. The Lamellibrauchs 
do not need to take in water. What is true of them is also true of other 
groups of mollusks." {Zeitschr. Wiss. Zool., v. 41, pp. 367-431 ; J. B. M. 
S., V. 6, p. 52.) 

Byssogenous glands and Aquiferous pores in Lamellibranchs. — Thebys- 
sogenous glands and pores of bivalve mollusks, as well as the so-called 
aquiferous pores of the foot, have been studied by Prof. T. Barrois. 

"In the present state of knowledge," he indicates, "it is generally 
admitted that the byssus is the secretion of special glands," but the ex- 
tent to which such glands are developed had not been known until the 
])rofessor was able to demonstrate that Lamellibranchs generally ex- 
hibit more or less well marked traces of this byssogenous apparatus. 



778 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1885. 

In such forms as have the glands moderately developed, such as the 
common European cockle {Cardhim cdule), the organ consists of "a 
groove on the lower surface of the foot, of glands at the side of the 
groove, of a caual which extends from it to the more or less spacious 
cavity of the byssus, and of compact masses of byssogenous glands 
which pass the i)roducts of their secretion into the cavity." This cavity 
as well, and also the canal and the groove, are lined with a cylindrical 
epithelium. In the common cockle the byssus is formed by "a simple 
hyaline filament." 

In those forms in which the glands are more developed, such as the 
common mnssel (Mytilus), Pinna, and others, "the glands are much 
denser, and the anterior extremity of the foot is prolonged to form the 
linguiform muscle; the lamellae of the cavity of the byssus are more 
numerous," and the byssus is formed of a number of filaments consti- 
tuting a tuft. " In Anomia diflFerentiation is carried much further, for 
the byssus becomes charged with carbonate of lime," and compact, so 
as to form the so-called ossicle. 

In still other forms, 'Hhe organ undergoes great retrogression," and 
there may be " a very short groove, or none, and no glands," as in Donax 
and Tellina: "sometimes the groove and cavity are present, but no 
glands exist," as in Nucula, while in others "only a delicate blind canal 
can be distinguished, formed by a simple layer of epithelial cells," as in 
Psammohia. And in few forms is there a complete absence of groove, 
cavity, or glands. Pholas and ISolen are examples of the few. 

Professor Barrois has examined more than 50 species and, accord- 
ing to his views, representatives of "every family except the Trigouiidse 
and Tridacnidae," and, inasmuch as the byssus and its associated struct- 
ures are so generally developed, "he is inclined to regard it as a char- 
acteristic organ of the Lamellibrach type." 

The so-called aquiferous pores are thought by Professor Barrois to be 
"nothing more than the orifices of degraded byssogenous glands." It 
is his opinion that, " if water does really enter the cirulatory system," 
it "must do so by fine intercellular canals, or by endosmosis, or some 
other way," but not through the aquiferous pores. [Comptes Bendus, 
Acad. Sc. Paris, v. — , pp. 188-190 ; J. B. M. S. (2), v. 5, pp. 227, 228.) 

^Structure of bivalve shells. — The bivalve shells have been considered 
by W. Miiller with reference to the attachment existing between the 
mantle of the animal and the shell Two varieties are recognized. In 
one the shell is only attached at certain areas to the mantle, and "the 
organic substance of the mother-of-pearl layer is membranous"; this 
phase is exhibited by almost all members of the class. In the other 
variety the shell is "continuously grown to the mantle," and "the or- 
ganic substance of the mother-of-pearl layer forms a network;" this 
condition, so far as known, is only exemplified in the little fresh water 
clam-like shells known as Sphasriidije or Cycladida^. {Zool. Anzeiger^ 
V. 8, pp. 70-75 ; J. B. M. S. (2), v. 5, pp. 230.) 



ZOOLOGY. 779 

Gasfropodfi. 

TJie wings or cephalic appendges of Fferopods. — The homologies of the 
wing-like anterior appendages of the Pteropocls are still involved in 
doubt. In the gyranosomatous forms, especially of the genera Clione, 
Cliouopsis, or Pneumodermon, there are always two jyairs of tentacles, 
and Dr. Pelseneer believes that they are ''liomologous with the two 
pairs of the eathyneurous Gastropods." In thecosmatous Pteropods, 
there is a pair of tentacles so reduced as to be rudimentary, and if the 
species do not have eyes when adult, they have them in some stage of 
development; these tentacles are homologous with the posterior or 
nuchal oculiferous tentacles of the gymnosomatous Pteropods, while the 
absence of the anterior is to be explained by the swimming lobes en- 
circling the bead. ''Most of the gymnosomata have a pair of buccal 
appendages between the two pairs of tentacles, and these, though 
varied in aspect, are probably similar in origin; it is explained how, in 
Clione, they are really inserted on the external wall of the buccal cavity 
just as in Oirrifer and Pneumodermon; but at the same time it is to be 
remembered that this part of the buccal cavity is an introvert and not 
a true part of the oral cavity." {Quart. Journ. Micr. Soc, v. 25, pp. 
491-509, 1 pi.; J. B. M. S. (3), v. 6, p. 53.) 

The eyes of Gastropods. — An investigation of the eyes of Gastropods 
has been undertaken by Dr. C. Hilger. It appears that there are two 
kinds of optic organs developed in ordinary forms. In the first a rudi- 
mentary condition is manifested in that the eye "forms but a slight in- 
vagination of the epithelium of the body; " this condition is exemplified 
in the Ehipidoglossate and Docoglossate mollusks, as in the genera 
Margarita, Trochus, Haliotis, Fissurella, and Patella. In the second, 
"the eye forms a complete closed capsule, which is invested by connec- 
tive tissue." This condition is manifested in the Pectinibranchiates, 
such as the genera Murex, l!^assa, Ficus, Cyprasa, and Con us. 

In the former type "the eye has the form of a cup or bell shaped 
invagination of the epithelium of the body," and "in most cases, the 
cuticle seems to be developed as a very thin lamella over the anterior 
part of the vitreous body; the invagination is lined by the retina, which 
anteriorly passes directly into the epithelium of the body and is in- 
vested externally by the outspread optic nerve." In the ear-shells 
(Haliotis) and top-shells (Trochus) "the cavity is filled by a delicate 
gelatinous substance, and in Patella and Nacella by a finely granulated 
mass." 

In those forms in which the eyes are more developed "the larger and 
hinder part of the corpuscle is formed by the retina and the outspread 
optic nerve, while it is closed anteriorly by the inner cell-layer of 
the pellucidii. Within there is either a lens or vitreous body or both," 
and "the eye is completely invested by the connective tissue of the ten- 
tacle," or, as it has been more definitely named, the ommatophor. 



780 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

For further details, reference must be had to the original memoir of 
Hilger, ])ublished in the Morphologische Jahrbuch, and a fuller abstract 
in the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society. {Morphol. Jahrb., 
V. 10, pp. 351-371, 2 pi. ; J. B. M. S. (2), r. 5, pp. 222, 223.) 

The relations of Sequenzia. — The small moUusks to which the generic 
name Sequenzia has been given, and which, on account of the appear- 
ance of the shell, have been supi)osed to be related to the Solariids by 
some, and by others to the Trochids, have, it seems, been quite misun- 
derstood. Prof. A. E. Verrill found in the dredgings of the United 
States Fish Commission living examples of the genus, and, on exami- 
nation of the radula and jaws, determined the affinities of the form to 
be quite different. Professor Verrill approximates the genus (which he 
raises to the rank of a family) to the Aporrhaidae, and consequently in 
the group or suborder of Tasnioglossa instead of the Ptenoglossa or 
Rhipidoglossa. 

The family is definable as Tainioglossates with ovate jaws having a 
tesselated surface and denticulated edge; teeth of the central row small 
and with a denticle, of the inner lateral smaller and with curved, unarmed 
tips, and of the two outer lateral slender, sharp, and strongly curved; 
shell trochiform,its aperture irregular, with a posterior sinus and a short 
or rudimentary canal or sinus, with a pearly luster, and decussating 
sculpture, and operculum thin, rounded-ovate, with a subcentral nucleus 
and five concentric lines. (Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts & Sci., v. 6, pp. 
186-191.) 

The animal ofAdeorhis. — There is a small shell, of a discoid form, found 
along the European coasts, as to whose relations there have been con- 
siderable doubts ; its generally accepted name is Adeorbis subcarinatus. 
The doubts as to its aflBnities could only be solved 'by an examination 
of the anatomy of the animal. This has been undertaken during the 
past year by Mr. Paul Fischer. He found that the radula has sixty- 
eight transverse rows of teeth, each row consisting of seven teeth ; the 
central is wide and trapezoidal, and has a reflected summit and basal 
cusps ; the lateral teeth are rhomboid and each has a long, stolk-like 
lateral process ; the inner marginal are long, narrow, and denticulated 
along its external margin; the external still narrower and with entire 
margins. It appears, therefore, that Adeorbis has no relations with the 
Trochids or Cyclostrematids to which some conchologists have been dis- 
posed to refer it, and that its affinities are really with the Skeneids and 
Rissoids, as has been long suspected by others. (Trans. Conn. Acad. 
Arts & 8ci., V. 6.) 

The relations of Truncatella. — Along the shores of many countries be- 
tween tide-marks or even above normal high-water mark are found cer- 
tain small moUusks having an elongated turreted shell, truncated at 
the summit, and with a subcircular aperture. These raollusks belong 



ZOOLOGY. 781 

to the family named Truncatellidse, and they have been generally asso- 
ciated with the Cyclostomids and allied animals and considered to be 
true air-breathing and lung-bearing gastropods. The correctness of 
this view however was long ago challenged, and its incorrectness 
has been shown during the past year by Dr. A. Vayssiere. The 
study of the respiratory apparatus of the animal reveals the fact that 
it is a true gill or branchia, which is placed transversely to the longitu- 
dinal axis of the body j has itself an elongated form and is composed of 
twelve to fifteen triangular lamellae, arranged in a row, but each almost 
entirely independent of its fellows. On the surface of the lamellae, and 
especially toward the free extremity, there are vibratile ciliae which deter- 
mine the movements of. the water around the organ. It is, therefore, 
says Dr. Vayssiere, undeniable that the respiration of the animal is by 
means of branchiae. The mollusk lives in a moist atmosphere, although 
not in the water, and therefore it keeps stored up in its respiratory cavity 
a certain amount of water which is renewed every time that the tides 
cover its station. Dr. Vaysseire adds some details on the habits of 
individuals kept in confinement. They had been found on the sea bor- 
der more or less ensconced in the muddy ooze and in the midst of debris 
cast on the shore, consisting largely of decaying fruit and animals. The 
Truncatellas did not appear to be at all affected by the odor of the decay- 
ing matter. They could remain out of the water and in an atmosphere 
saturated with the vapor, and could live many days without suffering, 
but moisture was necessary and they soon succumbed to dryness. Their 
progress is peculiar, and the movements of the animal recall those of 
the geometrical caterpillars. Normally and when in the water it uses 
only its foot in walking, and does not employ its proboscis save in ex- 
ceptional cases, and when a special demand is made upon its strength, 
as when it is creeping upon a vertical and smooth surface, such as the 
sides of a glass globe. Previous observers, who stated that it always 
uses its proboscis, were misled by the fact that the mollusk, in its prog- 
ress (which resembles that of the geometrical caterpillars), performs 
with the anterior part of its body (the proboscis) a certain looping move- 
ment. This movement, which at the same time entails an approach of 
the extremity of the proboscis to the ground, leads one to suppose that 
this plays a role in its progress, and one is the more disposed to 
believe this, as the mouth, which is at the extremity of the proboscis, has 
very much the appearance of a sucker. 

The food of the little animal is chiefly composed of microscopic ani- 
malcules (such as Infusorians, Amcebas, Foraminifers, &c.), as well as 
the decomposing remains of algae and other aquatic plants. {Journ. 
dc Concliyl. (3) v. 25, pp. 255-288, pi. 12, 13.) 

North American Land JSlngs and Shells. — The terrestrial Gastropods of 
Xorth America, north of Mexico, which have been treated of to such 
an extent by Mr. W. G. Binney, have been submitted to a renewed ex- 



782 SCIENTIFIC KECOED FOK 1885. 

a.miuation by the same gentleman. The results have appeared in a new 
volume, entitled " A Manual of A.merican Land Shells," which consti- 
tutes "No. 28" of the Bulletin of the U. S. NatioDal Museum. 

The treatment is essentially the same as that in Mr. Binney's previ- 
ous publications, but instead of the species being arranged in a regular 
systematic order they are distributed geographically under several cat- 
egories : (a) those " universally distributed ; " {b) those of the " Pacific 
province ; " (c) those of the " central province ; " (d) species of the 
" eastern province," aud the "northern region" thereof ; (e) species of 
the " eastern province" and the "interior region.;" (/) species of the 
"eastern province" and the "southern region," and (</) those "locally 
introduced." 

After a brief introduction on (1) the " habits and properties," (2) 
"geographical distribution," (3) the " generative organs," (4) the "jaws 
and lingual dentition," and (5) the " classification," the author enters 
upon the description of the species under the geogTaphical categories 
enumerated. 

With Dr. Fischer, he divides the Geophilous Pulmonates (to which 
the volume is restricted) into two groups (1) the Monotremata, dis- 
tinguished by having common or contiguous external male and female 
orifices, including almost all of the species, and (2) the Ditremata, em- 
bracing those forms in which the external male and female orifices are 
widely separated. Of the latter group only two species of the family 
Veronicellida3 and two of the Ouchidiidse have been observed within 
the limits mentioned. 

The Monotremata are divided into eleven families. These families do 
not always ai)pear to be very natural and sometimes discordant forms 
have been combined in one, and sometimes forms for which no differ- 
ential characters have been noticed have been referred to distinct fami- 
lies. 

A r^sum6 of those families to which distinctive characters can be 
given seems appropriate in this connection. 

I. The Glandinidse include those forms which are entirely destitute of 
a jaw, and whose teeth are of only one kind, all being elongated, narrow, 
and aculeate, while the mantle is submedian or postmedian and entirely 
included in the shell, which itself is elongated or turreted. Of this 
family five are enumerated as species of the genus Glandina. These, in 
Mr. Binney's plan, belong to the family Testacellidai. ^ 

II. The Selenitidae constitute a group, recently recognized by Dr. 
Fletcher, of which the jaw is ribless, the teeth are of nearly the same 
character as those of the Glandinidie and are aculeate, the median one 
being either suppressed or very small, and the mantle is submedian or 
posterior and included within the shell, which latter is spiral and helici- 
form. The species of this group are referred by Mr. Binuey to the ge- 
nus Macroyclis, and six are recognized as inhabitants of the North 
American fauna. 



ZOOLOGY. 783 

III. The Vitrinidae may be considered as embracing the Monotrema- 
tous Geopbila, witb a jaw which is smooth or striated (destitute of ribs) 
and has a median projection to the cutting edge; teeth diiaerentiated 
into a central tricuspid one, " hiterals of about the same height as cen- 
trals, bicuspid or tricuspid, but in latter case furnished with an ob- 
solete inner cusp ; marginal teeth differing from the laterals, aculeate 
unicusi)id or bicuspid," and a heliciform shell. This family embraces 
about fifty-two species, which are referred by Mr. Binney to the Lima- 
cidse. 

IV. The BulimulidaB include forms which have the jaw thin, and pro- 
vided with distant transverse ribs, the teeth " peculiar by the elongation 
and incurvation of the ini'er cusp of the lateral " ones, and the mantle 
included in the shell which, itself is more or less elongated and turreted. 
Nine species, referred to the genus Bulimulus, are represented in North 
America, and are chiefly found in the southwestern regions. 

V. The StenogyridsB include forms which have the "jaw ribbed or 
finely wrinkled, thin, arched;" the teeth differentiated into (1) a small 
central tooth, (2) tricuspid lateral teeth having the " central cusp long 
and narrow" and "side cusps of subequal length," and (3) "marginal 
teeth, quadrate, very low, wide," and " tricuspid or multifid ; " the man- 
tle included, and the " shell generally elongated, polygyral, shining," 
and with its " apex more or less obtuse." The six North American 
species are referred to the genera Stenogyra, Ferrussacia, and Caecilian- 
ella. 

VI. The Helicidie have a jaw of a single piece (generally arcuate, 
often ribbed), teeth diiferentiated into (1) "centrals unicuspid or tricus- 
pid,"(2)" laterals unicuspid, bicuspid, or tricuspid, but with theinnercusp 
obsolete," and (3) "marginals quadrate, low, wide;" the mantle sub- 
median and included in the shell, and the shell spiral and diversiform. 
The American representatives are distributed by Mr. Binney among 
two families, the Helicidae and Pupidae, but the only differences noticed 
are as to degrees of exsertion of the spire. The gradations from a dis- 
coid helix to an elongated turreted or pupiform shell are so gradual 
and numerous (especially when foreign forms are taken into account) 
that no advantage seems to result from the distinction of the two groups. 
Including both types and eliminating the genera Arion, Ariolimax, Pro- 
physaon Binneya, Hemphillia, and the Punctum pygmaeum or minutis- 
simum, one hundred and sixty-seven species have been admitted by Mr. 
Binney into the North American fauna and distributed among twenty- 
six genera. 

VII. The LimacidsB may be restricted to species having the jaws rib- 
less, the dentition divided into (1) a " central tooth tricuspid," (2) lat- 
erals of same height as central, bicuspid or tricuspid, and (3) " mar- 
ginal teeth differing from the laterals, aculeate, unicuspid or bicuspid," 
the mantle anterior, small, narrow, and shield-like in appearance, and 
the shell reduced to a rudiment and concealed under the mantle. All 



7<S4 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

the North American species are referred by Mr. Binney to the genus 
Limax and are seven in number. 

VIII. The Arionida; include forms which have the jaw entire and 
transversely ribbed ; the teeth of three types, (1) a wide central ob- 
scurely tricuspid; (2) lateral, " like the centrals but asymmetrical by the 
suppression of the inner lower lateral expansion of the base of attach- 
ment," and (3) marginals quadrate, low and wide; the mantle anterior, 
small and shield-like, and the shell represented by a small flat plate or 
granules. The North American species are referred to two genera, 
Arion with two species (one introduced from Europe) and Arioiiraax 
with five. These species are interposed between genera of the Helicidte 
by Mr. Binney. 

IX. The PhilomycidsB have a "jaw with or without anterior ribs, 
and median projection or cutting edge," teeth distinguishable into cen- 
tral, lateral, and marginal; a mantle covering the whole body, and the 
shell entirely suppressed. Four species are found within our Mmits, all 
of which are referred to the genera Tebeunophorus, although there are 
two quite distinct forms which seem to have been confounded in it. 
The names used by Professor Morse are Tebeunophorus and Pallifera. 

X. The Orthalicidte are forms which have a peculiar jaw in that it 
is " thick, solid, composed of a median triangular piece, with base cor- 
responding to upper margin of jaw, and near the apex of which con- 
verge on either side oblique imbricated plates, tree below, adherent 
above." The teeth are distinguished into " central and lateral teeth with 
quadrangular base, with central cusp more or less obtuse, generally very 
much expanded, with rudimentary side cusps" and "marginal teeth 
quadrate, of same tyi)e ; " the mantle is posterior and included, and 
the shell spiral and turreted. Two species are found in Florida belong- 
ing to the genera Orthalicus and Liguus. 

XI. The Punctidse include forms with the "jaw low, wide, slightly 
arcuate, with blunt, squarely truncated ends, "disintegrated into many" 
(about sixteen) " separate pieces, each higher than wide, with small 
overlapping edges ; " the teeth are quite peculiar (but most like those 
of the Auriculidae) and represented only by centrals and laterals hav- 
ing bases of attachment longer than wide, expanded below and squarely 
truncated, and free portions narrowed and reflected ; " the mantle is 
submediau, and the shell heliciform. Not more than one species is cer- 
tainly known within our limits. It is the Helix minutissima or Punc- 
tum minutissimum of most American authors, but it is regarded by Mr. 
Binney as being identical with a European species and called by him 
Microphysa pygmaea. 

XII. The Succiniidse have a jaw surmounted by an accessory quad- 
rangular plate, teeth differentiated into (1) a central tricuspid, (2) lat- 
eral which are tricuspid or bicuspid, and (3) marginal of a quadrate form 
"with narrow base, multicuspid reflection, serrate by the splitting of 
the inner cusp into numerous denticles;" mantle more or less included 



ZOOLOGY. 785 

in the shell, and the shell more or less developed, spiral, thin, and trans- 
parent. The North American species are all referred to the genus Suc- 
cinea by Mr. Binuey, and twenty-six species are recognized. 

All of the forms now noticed belong to the group Monotremata (or 
Syntremata) as previously noted, and only four species belong to the 
remaining two funiilies of Ditremata. 

The Veronicellidse have a "jaw slightly arcuate, with numerous ver- 
tical ribs ;" teeth differentiated into (1) " centrals, narrow, unicuspid, 
with expanded sides," (2) "laterals large, obscurely tricuspid," and with 
"medium cusp ^sharp and long," and (3) "marginals with quadrate 
base short, triangular, unicuspid," and mantle not distinct from general 
integument ;" the shell is entirely suppressed. Two species have been 
found in the United States, one in Florida and the other in California; 
both are terrestrial. 

The Ouchidiidae have the "jaw entirely smooth or lightly wrinkled," 
teeth differentiated into "central tooth, tricuspid lateral teeth, and margi- 
nals with quadrate base, razor-shaped," having the "base long and with 
cutting point narrow" and " medium cusp truncated and very long;" the 
mantle is " thick, more or less tuberculous above," and no shell is de- 
veloped. The two North American species belong to the genus Onchi- 
della, one (O. borealis) occurring from Prince William's Sound to Van- 
couver's Island, and the other (O. Carpenteri) from the Straits of Fuca 
to the Gulf of California. 

Differences among the slugs. — Some of the European malacologists ad- 
mit numerous species of Slugs as of the families Limacidae and ArionidsB 
on slight differences of form, proportions, and coloration, but the pro- 
priety of so doing has been questioned by Mr. S. Jourdain, who thinks 
that the differences that have generally been made use of for specific 
distinctions vary with age as well as habitat. He therefore urges that 
investigation should be directed to the internal organs and especially to 
the arrangement of the generative apparatus. " The pedal gland is also 
of service ; it contains a cylindrical excretory canal which extends 
more or less along the median line, and receives the mucoso-giaudular 
secretions of the lobules of a racemose gland on either side of it ; the 
internal face of the canal is vibratile. In the Limacidse it arises as an 
invagination of the ectoderm, and subsequently becomes branched; the 
extremities of the branches are invested by mesodermic cells which rap- 
idly become secretory." On differences discernible in the characters in 
question, Mr. Jourdaiu distiujj^uishes five species occurring in the en- 
virons of St. Vaast-la-Hougue : these are four of the family Limacida3 
and one of Arionidae. {Comptes Eendus, Acad. Sci. v. 101, pp. 963-960. 
J. B. M. 8. (3), V. 16, p. 50.) 

An European Falccozoio land shell. — Until lately, no land shells have 
been found in the palaeozoic rocks outside of North America, but in the 
H. Mis. 15 50 



786 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

western coutiuent seven species bave been found in Carboniferous and De- 
vonian deposits — six in the former and one in the latter. During the past 
year however, Dr. Paul Fischer has described a species referable to the 
genus Dendropupa from a Permian deposit at Saone-et-Loire. The new 
species is related, in Dr. Fischer's opinion, to the first-discovered species 
of the genus Dendropupa (D. vetusta), found in the coal-joggins of Nova 
Scotia, but the form is different, and although larger, there are only seven 
(instead of nine) whorls. Only a single cast of the species was found 
in the midst of various vegetable remains. The form has been named 
Dendrox)upa Wolchiarum. {Journ. de Conchyl. (3), v. 25, pp. 99-105.) 

Characteristics of Tectihranchiate Gastropods. — In the first part of a work 
devoted to zoological and anatomical researches on the Opisthobranchi- 
ate mollusks of the Gulf of Marseilles, Dr. A. Vayssi^re has treated of 
the Tectibranchiates. The memoir is valuable on account of the use 
made in it of characteristics which have hitherto been neglected. The 
author, with Dr. Fischer, divides the grouj) into three divisions, named 
Cephalaspidea, Anaspidea, and Kotaspidea. Besides much other infor- 
mation, details are given as to the food of various forms. Some are 
carnivorous, such as species of Scaphander, Philine, and Doridium ; 
others are omnivorous, like Gastropteron and Pleurobranchus, and still 
others are completely herbivorous, as the sea-hares (Aplysia) and No- 
tarchus. {RechercJies zoologiques ct anatomiques s%ir les mollusques opis- 
tliohranches du GoJfe de Marseilles, 181 pp. ; Journ. de Conchyl. (3), v. 25, 
pp. 206-209.) 

Cejphalopods. 

Cartilages of Sepia. — The "cartilages occurring in the head of Sepia" 
have been examined by W. D. Haliburton. "The basis of the cartilage 
is a chordrin-like body, which gives the re-action of macen and gelatine. 
But the gelatinous element is exceedingly small and no gelatinization 
occurs on the cooling of the hot-water extract. The cartilage differs 
however from that of vertebrates in containing a small percentage of 
chitin." In Sepia the percentage is 1-22 per cent. {Quart. Journ. Micr. 
Sc, v. 25, pp. 173-181 ; J. R. M. S. (2), v. ^, p. 222.) 

PROTOCHORDATES. 

Tunicates. 

Relations of Tunicates. — An elaborate monograph of the genus Dolio- 
lum has been published by Dr. B. TJljanin as a contribution to the 
" Fauna und Flora des Golfes von i^eapel (x, 1884), and in it are detailed 
the structural characteristics and the embryology. Various mooted 
questions as to the morphology and relationships of the group, as well as 
the Tunicates in general, are considered. The author inclines to the view 



ZOOLOGY. 787 

that the Tuuicates " represent a side branch of the vertebrate phylum, 
whose point of origin is near its root." The Apperdicuhuiids are " re- 
garded as the most primitive representatives of the group ; they give 
rise to the simple Ascidians; thence there branched off the Solpidoe on 
the one hand, and the compound Ascidians on the other; the latter 
gave rise to the social Ascidians, to Botrijllus and to Fyrosoma, while 
the primitive stock was continued on through Anchonia to JDoUolum.''^ 
Of course these views are to a large extent hypothetical, and perhaps, 
or even quite likely, wrong in some details, but so far as they are legiti- 
mate deductions from a careful and detailed study, are valuable as well 
as suggestive for further investigation. {J. B. M. 8. (2), v. 5, pp. 231- 
233.) 

VERTEBRATES. 

General. 

The North American Fish Fauna. — The " Synopsis of the fishes of 
North America " by Profs. David S. Jordan and Charles S. Gilbert, 
published early in 1883, has been followed duriug the past year by a 
" Catalogue of the fishes known to inhabit the waters of North America 
north of the tropic of Cancer, with notes on the sjiecies discovered in 
1883 and 1884," by Prof. David Starr Jordan. Since the publication of 
the synopsis, in 1883, " an active study of North American fishes has 
brought to light many speoies not included in the synopsis, and has 
shown various errors in the nomenclature of species already known. 
The additions are chiefly in the Bassalian or deep-sea fauna of the At- 
lantic, in the tropical fauna of the Florida Keys, and in the fresh-water 
fauna of the lower part of the Mississippi Yalley," regions recently re- 
examined. Professor Jordan has also extended the range adopted in the 
synopsis so that the new catalogue represents " the present state of our 
knowledge of the fishe.f'^ound north of the tropic of Cancer in American 
waters." In the new catalogue, 1,G83 species are adopted, and in addi- 
tion 187 subspecies are recognized, giving a total of 1,870 species and 
subspecies. These species are segregated under 587 genera and 157 
families. Several of the comprehensive genera and families of the syn- 
opsis have been now disintegrated, more natural and better definable 
groups being recognized in their j)lace. In a "recapitulation," an as- 
signment of the species to the various faunas is made. In regard to 
many of them, such an assignment, in the words of Professor Jordan, 
is "simply arbitrary, and in this fact lies the chief element of error in the 
following list. Thus many Arctic shore fishes belong to the Bassalian 
fauna of New England, while mafiy West Indian species occur north- 
ward, more or less frequently as far as Caj)e Cod." It must be added, 
too, that " no species is counted twice, but in each case of the numerous 
si^ecies which range over several faunal areas, each is referred to that 
3-rea which is sui)posed to be most properly its home, or to that in which 



788 SCIENTIFIC l^ECOED FOE 1885. 

its occurrence has been longest known." The figures given by Profes- 
sor Jordan are as follows : 

Species. 

Bassalian or deep-sea fauna of the Atlantic 105 

Arctic (Greenland) fauna 65 

New England (Newfoundland to Cape Hatteraa) 95 

South Atlantic and Gulf coast (shore fauna) 140 

West Indian fauna (including Florida Keys and "Snapper Banks," of Pensa- 

cola) 290 

Tropical fauna of the Pacific (Gulf of California, southward) 240 

California fauna (Cape Flattery to Cerros Island) 220 

Alaska (Cape Flattery to Bering's Straits) 90 

Pelagic species 35 

Fresh waters: East of Rocky Mountains 465 

Fresh waters : Between Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada (Great Basin, «fec. ) 75 

Fresh waters : West of the Sierra Nevada and Cascade Range 50 

Total 1,870 

The Fishes of Tropical America. — After having elaborated all the spe- 
cies of fishes of temperate and arctic America, Prof. David S. Jordan 
addressed himself to a preparation of a list of the fishes found along the 
Pacific coast of tropical America from the Tropic of Cancer to Panama. 
The species of this region were almost unknown a quarter of a century 
ago, and, in the words of Professor Jordan, "our knowledge of these 
species is due chiefly to the studies of Dr. (p^ill, Dr. Giinther, Dr. Stein- 
dachner, and Professors Jordan and Gilbert. Only a few collectors 
have given especial attention to the fish fauna of this region, but the 
work of these has, in nearly all cases, been of exceptional value. The 
earliest extensive collections were made by Mr. John Xantus at Cape 
San Lucas, and later at Colima. The specimens obtained by Xantus 
comprise especially the fishes of the rock pools. These were studied 
by Dr. Gill in 1862 and by Professor Gilbert '^nd the writer in 1882. " 
Since that early time, however, numerous other collectors have obtained 
fishes, and among the most prominent of these are Captain John M. 
Dow, Mr. Osbert Salviu, Dr. Franz Steindachner, Prof. Frank Bradley, 
Dr. Bocourt, and, last and greatest, Messrs. Jordan and Gilbert. Alto- 
gether 407 species have been obtained, and these represent 187 genera 
and 08 families. A comparison of these with the Caribbean and Gulf 
of Mexico fauna is interesting and instructive. According to Professor 
Jordan's identifications, 71 species, or 17^ per cent., are found also on the 
Atlantic coasts. If we add to this some 800 species now known from 
the Caribbean Sea and adjacent shores, we have about 6 per cent, of the 
whole number known, as common to^the two coasts. This number, 71, 
is not very definitely ascertained, as there must be considerable difier- 
ence of opinion as to the boundaries of species, and as several of these 
species regarded as common are open to doubt and need verification." 
Professor Jordan believes however that "fuller investigations will not 
increase the proportions of common species, and, it it does not, the two 



ZOOLOGY. 789 

faunas show no greater resemblances than the siuiihirity of physical con- 
ditions on the two sides would lead us to expect. 

These conclusions contrast with those of Dr. Gunther. "Dr. Giinther 
assumes that nearly one-third of the total number of species of marine 
fishes on the two shores of tropical America will be found to be iden- 
tical. Hence he infers that there must have been, at a comparatively 
^recent date, a depression of the isthmus, producing an intermingling 
of the two launas." 

Professor Jordan explains that "this discrepancy arises from the 
couii>aratively limited representation of the two faunre at the disposal 
of Dr. Giinther. He enumerates 193 marine or brackish- water species, 
as found on the two coasts, 59 of which are regard^ by him as speci- 
fically identical, this being 31 per cent, of the whole. But in 30 of these 
59 cases" Professor Jordan regards " the assumption of complete identity 
as erroneous, so that, taking the number 193, as given," he would " re- 
duce the percentage to 15. But these 193 species form but a fragment 
of the total fauna, and any conclusions based on such narrow data are 
certain to be misleading." 

Some data respecting the supposed con-specific forms are interesting. 
" Of the 71 identical species admitted in our list, several {e. g., Mola^ Or- 
cynus) are pelagic fishes, common to most warm seas ; still others [e. </., 
Trachuriis, Caranx, Biodon sp.) are almost cosmopolitan in the tropical 
waters ; most of the others (e. g., Gohius, Gerres, Genfropomus, Galeich- 
thys sp., &c.) often ascend the rivers of the tropics, and we may account 
for their diffusion, perhaps, as we account for the dispersion of fresh- 
water fishes on the isthmus, on the supjiosition that they may have 
• crossed from marsh to marsh at some time in the rainy season." But 
" in very few cases are representatives of any species from opposite 
sides of the isthmus exactly alike in all respects. These differences in 
some cases seem worthy of specific value, giving ' us representative spe- 
cies,' on the two sides. In other cases, the distinctions are very trivial, 
but in most cases they are appreciable, especially on fresh specimens." 

Finally, Professor Jordan is " brought to the conclusion that the fish 
faunae of the two shores of Central America are substantially distinct, 
so far as species are concerned, and that the resemblance between them 
is not so great as to necessitate the hypothesis of the recent existence 
of a channel across the isthmus, ijermitting the fishes to pass from one 
side to the other." 

These results are especially noteworthy inasmuch as they confirm 
and are themselves corroborated by the results of studies of various 
other classes of the animal kingdom. [Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 8, pp. 
361-394.) 

Selachians. 

Glassification of the Sharhs. — An important contribution to our knowl- 
edge of the skeletons of sharks, :ind isoinc excellent hints as to the 
classification of the group, have appeared in an article by Prof. William 



790 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

A. Haswell, of S> dney. Aiisteilia, entitled " Studies on the Elasinobrancli 
Skeleton." That naturalist examined the complete skeletons or skulls 
of 17 species of Selachians, and has described the essential peculiarities 
of the skull, visceral arches, shoulder g-irdle, pectoral fins, and pelvic 
fins, as well as dorsal, anal, and caudal. The results of his examina- 
tioiis are embodied in a summary in which he recapitulates the essential 
characters of the various families and including groups. 

Professor Haswell recognizes for the plagios tomes generally two 
orders, the Selachoidea and the Batoidei, which are characterized as 
follows : 

The Selachoidei are distinguished in that " in the skull the post-orbi- 
tal processes are usftally well developed ; the orbit is usually provided 
with a cartilaginous floor formed of the basal plate ; there is always a 
palato-basal articulation ; the rostrum usually consists of three bars 
with large foramina at the base. There are a series of external branch- 
ial arches ; the first branchial arch never articulates with the skull ; 
the hyo-arch is supported by the hyo mandibular : the copula of the 
hyoid has the form of a broad plate connected with its distal extremity. 
The pectoral fin is not connected with the skull by means of an ant- 
orbital cartilage ; the ventral portion of the pectoral arch is divided in the 
middle by a more flexible portion into two lateral halves usually slightly 
movable on each other, and the dorsal extremities do not articulate with 
the spinal column. The pro- and meta-pterygia of the pectoral tin are 
never greatly elongated, and usually have the form of relatively broad 
plates." 

The Batoidei are recognized as an order contrasted with the Sel- 
achoidei in the following terms: "The post-orbital processes are small 
or absent ; the orbit is devoid of cartilaginous floor. There is no palato- 
basal articulation. The rostrum, when present, is usually imperforate 
at the base. There are no external branchial arches ; tlie first branchial 
arch is sometimes directly connected by the hyo-mandibular with the 
skull. When the hyoid arch is supported bj' the hyo-mandibular the 
articulation takes place near the proximal extremity of the latter. The 
ventral portion of the pectoral arch forms a continuous rigid bar ; the 
<lorsal extremities of the arch are connected either with the spinal 
column or with one another. The pro- and meta-pterygia of the pectoral 
fins have the form of elongated narrow bars, and the mesoi)terygium 
is insignificant. The anterior portion of the pectoral fin is connected 
by a cartilage — the ant-orbital cartilage — with the ethmoidal region of 
the skull." 

The Selachoidei, or sharks, are disintegrated into two " suborders," 
named Palaeoselachii and Neoselachii. Professor Haswell considers 
this grouping to "follow as a necessary conclusion from the researches 
'Of Gegenbaur on the anatomy of the skull." The suboiders are distin- 
guished by the following characters: 

In the Palaeoselachii " the occipital region of the skull is not so 
sharply marked off from the spinal column as in other Elasmoranchii ; 



ZOOLOGY. 791 

it presents above a mesial ridge continuous with the spinous processes 
and at the sides ridges continuous with the line of the transverse proc- 
esses. The plane of the occipital region is vertical or inclined from 
below upwards and backwards. There is no lateral occipito- vertebral 
articulation. The principal vagus foramen is placed far from the fora- 
men magnum ; the lower roots of the nerve pass out by from three to 
five distinct canals which are in the line with the foramina for the spi- 
nal nerves. The vestibulum forms a distinct eminence on the surface 
of the infero-i3lateral portion of the auditory region. The articular sur- 
face for the hyo-maudibular is simple, and not sharply marked oft' from 
surrounding parts. The post-orbital process presents an articular sur- 
face for the palatoquadrate. The orbit has no cartilaginous floor. 
There is an ethmoidal canal. There is no tri-radiate rostrum. Eepre- 
senting the ant-orbital cartilage of rays is an ant-orbital process. There 
are either six or seven branchial arches; the external arches are incom- 
plete. There is only one dorsal fin ; its rays are supported by a broad 
basal cartilage." . 

In the Neoselachii " the centra of the vertebrae are well ossified. The 
occipital region is well marked off from the vertebral column. The plane 
of the foramen magnum is vertical or slopes forwards. The principal 
vagus foramen is usually approximated to the foramen magnum, and 
there is never a row of accessory foramina in line with the foramina of 
spinal nerves. There is no distinct elevation on the surface of the skull 
marking the position of the vestibule. The articular surface for the 
hyo-mandibular is complex. The post-orbital process never presents 
an articular surface for the palatoquadrate. The orbit has a cartila- 
ginous floor. There is no process representing the ant-orbital cartilage 
of the rays. There are never more than five branchial arches. There 
are two dorsal fins, which may or may not present broad basal carti- 
lages." 

The suborder Palseoselachii is represented by only one family, the 
JSTotidanidae, while the Neoselachii examined by Professor Haswell are 
differentiated by him into the families Cestraciontidse, Lamnidae, Scyl- 
liolamiiidse, Scyllidse, Ehinidae, and Pristiophoridse. 

Fishes or Teleostomes. 

Pterospis and Scaphaspis. — In a Devonian bed in Galacian Podolia 
(Eussian-Poland) were found two shields, one a Pterospis and the other 
a Scapbaspis united, and universily opposite each, and giving the im- 
pression that they were in natural union ; the Pterospis, however, pro- 
jected further forwards than the Sca^jbaspis. It has therefore been 
urged by Dr. A. Altb that the Pterotpis was the dorsal and the Seaphas- 
pis the inferior buckler of the same fish. The mouth is thought to 
have been in the inter-space between the two shields and thus to have 
been somewhat inferior. {Abhandl. Sitz. Ber. Alad. Krahan, v. 11, pp. 
160-187, pi. 6, Archives Slaves de Biol., v. 1.) 



792 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

The Burramundi. — One of tlie most interesting of all fishes is an in- 
habitant of certain Australian rivers, and is known to some of the 
English settlers of the country as the salmon and flathead ; its native 
name is Burramundi. It has no resemblance whatever in form to the 
salmon and has been called so only because its flesh is pinkish like the 
salmon's. In shape it perhaj^s more resembles or rather has less dis- 
similarity to the fresh-water ophiocephalids of India or to a thick eel 
than to any common or well Ifnown fish. This resemblance results from 
its elongated subcylindrical form and the gradual tapering of its tail 
backward to the confluence of the dorsal, anal, and caudal fins. The 
head is depressed, wedge-shaped, and covered with a bony armature. 
The scales, which are almost confined to the body (although slightly 
encroaching upon the vertical fins), are large and have a peculiar 
structure. Its chief interest results from the fact that it is the repre- 
sentative of a family of fishes which is represented by numerous species 
in the secondary geological age in the northern hemisphere, and it was 
supposed, until 1870, to have become extinct at the end of the Triassic 
epoch. It was therefore a matter of the greatest astonishment to all 
naturalists when a species of the type was discovered living in the fresh 
waters of Southern Australia, and the living representative of the 
ancient family was found to be so nearly related to the extinct forms 
that it has been regarded by most naturalists as belonging to the typi- 
cal genus Ceratodus. It exhibits however differences of dentition re- 
moving it from any of the extinct forms, and there is no evidence that the 
secondary species had a skeleton or scales geuerically similar to those 
of the living representatives ; it has therefore by a few naturalists, 
been regarded as belonging to a peculiar generic type known as Neo- 
ceratodus. The ceratodonts are remarkable likewise on account of 
their nasal apertures opening into the palate, in which respect however 
they agree with two other living types of Dipnoous fishes, although 
differing from all others of the class except them. The assiduous re- 
searches of various naturalists have at length given us a tolerable insight 
into the life history of the Burram undi. It is confined to certain rivers of 
South Australia, and its headquarters seem to be in the Burnett River. 
Its mode of progression is by waves of the tail or by paddling with the 
I)ectoral fins without moving the posterior pair of fins or the tail. 
When at rest on the bottom of the tank the pectorals are placed nearly 
at right angles to the body while the hinder fins are brought nearly 
l^arallel to the tail. If not disturbed it will remain in this position for 
hours, and only when stirred up does it think it necessary to use the 
fins and tail at all. It then lurches out with the great strong tail turn- 
ing sidewise and squeezes in between some tufts of grass. Professor 
Kamsey endeavored to urge it to make some progress in only afew inches 
of water, but, as far as he could experiment, without effect. The fish is 
exceedingly eel-like in its movements, and when going slowly along the 
swaying of the great caudal fin entails a serpentine course. It is the 



ZOOLOGY. 793 

opinion of Professor Eamsey that the fish could not get forward in a 
straight line unless swimming very fast or very slowly at the time, 
and when it does this it does not use the tail at all, but depends upon 
the pectorals. The Neoceratodus has been said to frequently leave the 
water and go upon land, aud the possession of fully developed lungs 
seems to warrant such a belief, but Professor Eamsey doubts whether 
it ever goes quite out of the water, as has been reported, for the simple 
reason that the fish is too bulky to progress by the fins, and not long 
enough in the body Co go eel-fashion ; at any rate, individuals in con- 
finement decidedly objected to being kept any length of time out of 
water; they put up with it a few minutes and then began to plunge 
about so that he was always glad to get them back again in the water, 
fearing that they would iujure themselves. As the cold weather ap- 
proaches the Burramundi becomes inactive, and even too lazy to get out 
of the way when about to be handled. 

The ovaries and testes are nearly developed, and in April, or the 
early antipodal fall, in the Burnett River, but not before the beginning 
of September, or at the commencement of spring in the southern hemi- 
sphere, have the eggs been found laid in the water. They are deposited 
among the weeds and are placed each one by itself, "resembling those 
of the common newt" or sahiniander. They are fertilized in the water 
like those of some species of the newt kind. They are very difficult to 
be obtained. Mr. Caldwell spent many weeks hunting and, with the 
assistance of the blacks, turned up many hundred water-holes before 
he found any eggs. Ttese were " covered with an enormous quantity 
of gelatinous matter which required some special means to remove," 
and it was "eight days before he got a single egg out whole. When he 
succeeded in getting at the early stages, it remained to rear them until 
they were practically identical with the adult fish. This was a very 
difiicult task, as the enemies of the Ceratodus were very numerous. 
There were two kinds of fungi which attacked the eggs. • He put in 
Crustacea to devour the fungus, but these in turn attacked the young 
fish when it emerged from the egg. He was three months, till near the 
end of November (or the end of the Australian spring), developing the 
eggs." It is also noteworthy that not until nearly six weeks after hatch- 
ing were the hind limbs developed in the young. The egg of the Cera- 
todus undergoes "a complete segmentation similar to that of the kan- 
garoo." (Caldwell in Journ. Royal Soc. M. 8. Wales, v. 18, pp. 119, 120.) 

The extent of Salmon Leaps. — Observations have been made by Prof. 
A. Landmark, the chief director of the Norwegian fisheries, on the ex- 
tent of the leajjs which salmon are capable of. He thinks that " the jump 
depends as much on the height of the fall as on the currents below it. 
If there be a deep pool right under the fall, where the water is compar- 
atively quiet, a salmon may jump 10 feet perpendicularly; but such 
jumps are rare, and he can only state that it has taken place at the Hel- 



794 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

lefos, in the Drams River, at Haugsend, where two great masts have 
been placed across the river for the study of the habits of the salmon, so 
that exact measurements may be effected. The height of the water in 
the river of course varies, but it is, as a rule, when the salmon is run- 
ning up stream, 16 feet below these masts. The distance between the 
two is 3i feet, and the professor states that he has seen salmon jump 
from the river below across both masts." As another example of high 
jumping, he refers to the Carritunk waterfall, in the Kenebec Eiver 
(Maine), "where jumps of 12 feet have been recorded. Professor Land- 
mark further states that when a salmon jumps a fall nearly perpen- 
dicular in shape it is sometimes able to remain in the fall, even if 
the jump is a foot or two short of the actual height. This, he main- 
tains, has been proved by an overwhelming quantity of evidence. The 
fish may then be seen to stand for a minute or two a foot or so below 
the edge of the fall in the same spot, in a trembling motion, when, with 
a smart twitch of the tail, the rest of the fall is cleared. But only fish 
which strike the fall straight with the snout are able to remain in the 
falling mass of water; if.it is struck obliquely, the fish is carried back 
into the stream below. This Professor Landmark believes to be the 
explanation of salmon passing falls with a clear descent of 16 feet." 
He thinks that this is the extreme jumj) the salmon is capable of, and 
indicates that of course not all are capable of performing such a feat. 
{Nature, v. 32, pp. 329, 330.) 

A peculiar Mullet. A remarlahle type of lower jaw. — A new generic 
type of mullet, the family Mugilidse, has been described by Mr. W. 
Macleay, which is noteworthy on account of the anomalous mode of 
articulation of the lower jaw, and concomitant modifications of the 
neighboring parts. The new type was found very abundantly in the 
Goldie Eiver of New Guinea, " about 100 miles, by its course, from its 
mouth," and was found to be " excellent " as a food-fish. The aspect 
of the entire fish was not unlike that of other members of its family, 
but in the inferior surface of the head differences from all others were 
well marked. As Mr. Macleay remarks, " in most teleosteous fishes, at 
all events in this ftimily, the gill openings are large, and what may be 
termed the gill covers extend quite to the symphysis of the lower jaw, 
leaving a more or less open space on the chin composed of the integu- 
ments surrounding the extremity of the hyoid arch, and forming tlie 
floor of the mouth." In the new form a transverse fissure or groove 
appears behind the lower jaw, and when the integuments are removed 
some remarkable peculiarities are unveiled. "The chief and most ob- 
vious peculiarity'" is "undoubtedly the well-marked division across the 
uiader surface of the head, from the extremity of the ramus of the man- 
dible on one side to that of the other, a division however which though 
deep and well defined, is only external and has no communication with 



ZOOLOGY. 



795 



the mouth. An examiuation of the bones of the head shows however 
that notwithstanding the very abnormal external appearance, the actual 
divergence from the typical fish skull is less than might have been an- 
ticipated, and in fact is not so much a divergence from the type as a 
variation of it." 

" The hyoid bones are the least normal; the urohyal is slight ; the 
basihyal short, and the glossohyal very small and slightly longer than 
broad. The most advanced of these bones, the glossohyal, reaches only 
to the transverse division at the base of the mandibles, whereas in Mugil 
waigiensis [or any other mullet] the basihyal and glossohyal bones 
are large and prominent, supporting the whole floor of the mouth and 
extending almost to the symphysis of the lower jaw." 

The new form has been named ^schrychtys Goldiei. Good-sized 
specimens are 18 inches in length. {Proc. Linn. Soc, N. S. Wales, v. 8? 
pp. 2-6.) 

The nest of the fifteen-spined SticTdebacTc. — Like all the other species of 
the family Gasteros^eidae, the fifteen-spined or 'salt- water stickleback 
builds a nest attached to certain plants, which is much like those of its 
congeners, but some additional information has been communicated by 
Professor K. Mobius respecting the constitution of the threads by 
which it interweaves the particles constituting its nest, and the origin 
of those threads. An examination of male sticklebacks, in May and 
June, 1884, demonstrated to him that the threads are generally from 
0-12°'™ to 0-13'"™ in diameter, and consist of several cords stuck to- 
gether, and which again are composed of very fine parallel threads. 
The substance of which they are composed is nitrogenous, and is a 
l)eculiar modification of mucine as appears by its behavior towards 
various acids and alkalies. It is formed in the kidneys of the male, 
and indeed in the epithelial cells of the urinary canals, which exert this 
form of activity only at the time of reproduction, and during this period 
it behaves towards staining re-agents in the same way as the mucifer- 
ous organs of other vertebrata. {Schriften natur- Yereins f. ISchlesicig- 
Holstein, v. 6; Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 16, p. 153.) 

A tropical Gunnel Fish. — The family of Mursenoidids or Xiphidiontids 
had been supposed to be a characteristic cold-water type. All the pre- 
viously known species were confined to the seas of the temperate and 
north polar regions until the discovery had been made of a species of 
the family representing a peculiar genus occurring at Key West, Fla. 
The species has been named Stathmonotus Hemphilii by Dr. Bean, 
the curator of fishes in the U. S. National Museum. Most of the char- 
acteristics of the new generic type are shared with the common gun- 
nels or species of Muraenoides, but it has no scales ; moreover, on one 
hand, the pectorals are much smaller, and on the other the ventrals 



796 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



are better developed than in Muraenoides, their position is more ante- 
rior, and a spine and two rays of moderate size exist. [Proc. TJ. 8. Nat. 
JIus. V. 8, pp. 192, 192.) 

The American Flying Fishes. — The fishes of the sub-family of Exocoe- 
tines, including the true flying fishes, have been examined recently by 
Messrs. Jordon and Meek, and it appears that seventeen species refer- 
able to four genera are recognizable as inhabitants of the American 
waters on both sides of the continent. Three of these, Fodiator acutus, 
Farexoccetus mesogaster, and Halocypsehis evolans, belong to special 
genera, while all of the others are members of one natural genus (Exo- 
ccetus). Eight of the Exocoetines have been obtained off" the At- 
hmtic coast of the United States and one {Fxocoetus Galifornicus) 
along the Pacific coast. The California flying fish is one of the largest 
of the family. {Proc. TJ. 8. Nat. Mus., v, 8, pp. 67.) 

AmpJiihians. 

The Retrograde Metamorphosis of Siren. — The remarkable eel-like am- 
phibian named Siren lacertina, and abundant in the southern parts of 
the United States, is the type of a group, by some considered as an 
order, distinguished by some remarkable characteristics ; some of these 
have been considered to be evidences of degeneration. Professor Cope 
has now reason to believe that there are also indications to be found of 
"a retrograde metamorphosis" in the "history of its branchial appara- 
tus. " He had been at a loss to account for the curious condition fre- 
quently observed in the branchiae of the sirens. The fringes are fre- 
quently partially atrophied and " inclosed in a common dermal invest- 
ment of the branchial ramus, or all the rami are covered by a common 
investment, so as to be completely functionless and immovable. This 
character, observed in the Pseudobranchus striatus, gave origin to its 
separation from the genus Siren. " The character is however also ob- 
servable in the typical species. Siren lacertina, at a certain age, and 
the real difference, so far as generic valuation is concerned, depends 
simply on the different number of the digits represented in the two 
species. 

Professor Cope surprised " on discovering that the functionless con- 
dition of the branchiae is universal in young individuals of Siren lacertina 
of 5 and 6 inches in length ; " and even in a specimen little more 3 inches 
long they were found " entirely rudimentary and sub-epidermal ; " in 
fact, according to Professor Cope, only in large adult specimens are the 
branchiae fully developed. The inference drawn from the facts is, that 
" the branchiae are in the Sirens not a larval character, as in other peren- 
iiibrachiate Batrachia, but a character of maturity. Of course, only di- 
rect observation can show whether Sirens have branchiae on exclusion 
from the egg ; but it is not probable that they differ so much from the 



1 



ZOOLOGY. 



707 



otlier members of their class as to be without them. Nevertheless, it is 
evident that the braiichite soou become functionless, so that the animal 
is almost, if not exclusively, an air breather, and that functional activity 
is not resumed till a more advanced age." Indeed, from observations 
of a specimen in an aquarium, which for a time had no branchiaj at all, 
it apijeared that " sirens may be exclusively air breathers." Professor 
Cope urges that in explanation of this fact, it may be remarked that 
this atrophy cannot be accounted for on the supposition that it is sea- 
sonal and due to the drying n\) of the aquatic habitat of the sirens. The 
countries they inhabit are humid, receiving the heaviest rainfall of our 
Eastern States, and there is no dry season. The only explanation ap- 
l^ears [to him] to be that the present sirens are descendants of a terres- 
trial type of batrachia which passed through a metamorphosis' like other 
members of their class, but that more recently they have adopted a per- 
manent aquatic life, and have resumed their branchiie by reversion." 
{Am. Nat, v. 20, pp. 1226, 1227.) 

Peculiarities of Ccecilians. — The life history of the singular worm-like 
Amphitrans, representing the order Gymnophiona and the family Cse- 
cibiid?e, is still imperfectly known. Some characteristics have been de- 
scribed recently by the brothers P. B. and 0. F. Sarason. • In an advanced 
stage, shortly before hatching, the embryo is provided with very long- 
blood red external gill filaments, and has also a distinct tail, with a strong 
fin. The gill filaments are shed previous to hatching, after which the 
young Caecilians make their way to a neighboring stream, in which they 
breathe by means of gill slits. After they leave the water their gill slits 
close up, and they breathe by lungs. There is a fourth gill arch from 
which the pulmonary artery is given off. The spermatazoon has a spiral 
filament. The last two facts tend to show that the CfBcilians were nearer 
to the Modela than to the Anura, as is indeed amply shown to be the 
case by structural characteristics generally. It seems that there is a 
difference in reproduction manifested in closely related genera, for some 
species are oviparous while others are viviparous. 

Be2ytiles. 

The classification of the TAzards. — A very important and much needed 
work has been in progress of publication during the past year in the 
airangement and description of the species of living lizards. Two vol- 
umes of the projected three of the "Catalogue of Lizards iu the British 
Museum" have already appeared, in which all the species known are de- 
scribed and a number illustrated. The species have been thoroughly 
revised from a systematic standi)oint and groui)ed into natural genera 
and families. The classification is mostly based upon sitch characters as 
were made use of by Professor Coj)e about twenty years ago, but which 
have not received due consideratiou from later writers. Professor 



798 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Cope's work upon the group is indeed the only contribution to the taxon- 
omy of the lizards that is esteemed of special value by the author of the 
new catalogue. That author is the well-known herpetologist in charge 
of the reptiles of the British Museum, Mr. George Alfred Boulenger. 
Mr. Boulenger, however, by no means follows Professor Cope throughout, 
but has his own well considered views as to the value of the characters 
first brought prominently forward by Professor Cope. He accepts the 
order of Lacertians with the limit generally accredited to it of late years, 
and thus excludes the Sphenontidae or Hatteriidee. The order is sub- 
divided into two sub-orders : (1) the Lacertilia vera ; (2) the Rhipto- 
glossa. The several sub-orders into which the former have been disin- 
tegrated by Professor Cope are not recognized and even the families 
have in same cases been separated, by the intervention of groups adopted 
by Professor Cope. Twenty-one families of the order are adopted by 
Mr. Boulenger, and it is interesting to note that three of these were en- 
tirely unknown to Dumeril and Bibron when, in 1836 to 1839, they pub. 
lished those volumes of their great work devoted to the order. 

The 'following tabular synopsis of the characters most made use of 
by Mr. Boulenger will give an idea of the range of variation and system- 
atic values of the various characters. The external form is found to 
be not only of very little use, in many cases, in the determination of the 
relations of the types, but sometimes it is very illusive indeed. 

The characters utilized for the diagnosis of the various fauiilies are 
almost exclusively derived from the skeleton and teeth, and especially 
from the consideration of the following elements : 

1. The development or non-development of a i)ost-froutal arch {Fosffr.). 

2. The development or non-development of a post-orbital arch [Post- 
orb.). 

3. The development or otherwise of a supra-temporal roof [Suprat. 
roof). 

4. The existence or absence of a columella craui {Col. cr.). 

5. The development or non-development of an inter-orbital septum 
(J. O.S.). 

G. The number of parietal bones, i.e., whether paired or single {Par.). 
7. The number of frontal bones, whether doable or coalesced {Fr.). 
<S. The number of nasal bones, i. e., whether two or one {N'asals). 

9. The number of pre-maxillary bones, i. e., whether one or two pairs 
{P. max.). 

10. The number of elements in each ramus of the lower jaw or man- 
dible, i. e., whether four or five {Mand.). 

The teeth, especially whether implanted along the edge of the jaws 
(acrodent) or on the inner slope (pleurodent) {Teeth). 

12. The development of inter-clavicles, i. <?., whether "dilated" and 
"loop shaped proximally," or whether " not dilated proximally " and 
cruciform (X). Of course in forms whose fore limbs are absent or very 
much reduced, the inter-clavicles are wanting. 



ZOOLOGY. 



790 



Geckonidas — 
Eublepharidae . 

TJroplatidso 

Pygopodidae . . . 

AgamitliB 

Ignanidas 

Xenosauridae .. 

ZonuridsB 

Anguidas 

Auiellidaj 

Helodcrmatidfe 

Vuraaida) 

Xantusiidae 

■JVaidsB 

xVmphisbajnidae 

LacortidsB 

Gerihosauridae 

Scincidae 

Auelj^ropidae.. 
Dibamidae 



o 






0(1) 


X 
X 
X 
X 
X 


X 


X 
X 


X 
X 
X 









U3 



OCX) 









X 

X 




X 



X 

X 



var. 




C4 



1(2 



Ph 



2orl 

2? 

1 

(lox.oz.) 

1 
1 
1 
1 

1(2) 
(2ex.oz.) 
(2ex.oz.) 
2 
2 
1 
2 



Pleur.. 
..do .... 



Pleur . . 
Acrod. 
Pleur. 
..do.... 
-do.... 
Var.-.. 
Fangs . 
.do.... 



Pleur . . . 
Var. sol. 
Var 



-i 



2d 

Minute. 



X 

X (-) 

2X 

2X 

2X (0) 

1(?) 

X 

IX 

2X 

2 X 

2 0(r) 



Throwing these characters into diagnostic forms, economy of words 

and a better idea of the generality of characters may be obtained by 

recognizing a category called super-family. Under such headings those 

forms which exhibit exceptional characters may be segregated from the 

. great mass. 

The various families recognized by Dr. Boulenger may be found 
grouped as follows : 

GecJconoidea. — Eriglossate saurians with the vertebrae bi-concave, a 
clavical dilated, and loop-shaped proximally, 9,nd post-frontal and post- 
orbital osseus arches undeveloped. 

{Geckonidw.) — The only Geckonoidea known having the parietal bones 
double. 

Eublepharoidea. — Eriglossate saurians with concavo-convex vertebrae, 
clavicle dilated and loop-shaped proximally, and no post-orbital or post- 
frdntal squamosal arches. 

{EuhlepharidcB.) — The only known Eublepharoidea simulating in 
external appearance the Geckonidie, but distinguished by the coalescence 
of the parietals into a single bone, as well as by the concavo-convex ver- 
tebrae. 

Uroplatoidea. — Eriglossate saurians with bi-concave vertebrae, clavi- 
cles not dilated i)roximally, and without post-orbital or post-fronto 
squamosal bony arches. 

{Uroplatidw.) — The only known Uroplatoidea having two parietal 
bones and a minute intiii'-clavicle. 

Pygopodoidea. — Eriglossate saurians with concavo-convex vertebraSj 



800 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

clavicles dilated and loop-shaped proximally, and no post orbital or 
post-fronto squamosal arches. 

{Pygopodidcc.) — The only known Pygopodoidea, especially marked by 
tbe exclusion of the frontal from the orbit, by the retention of the pre 
and post-frontal bones towards each other so that they are in con- 
tact. 

Agamoidea. — Eriglossate saurians with concavo-convex vertebrae, 
clavicles not dilated proximally, and without post-orbital or post-frontal 
squamosal arches. 

{AgamidcB.) — Agamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa not roofed 
over by bone, tongue thickened, and aerodont dentition. 

(Iguanidce.) — Agamoidea with the supra- temporal fossa not roofed 
over by bone, tongue thickened, and a pleurodont dentition. 

(Xcnosouridce.) — Agamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa not roofed 
over by bone, the interior portion of the tongue retractile, a pleurodont 
dentition, and T-shaped inter-clavicles. 

(Zonuridce.) — Agamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over, 
the tongue simple, and cross-shaped inter-clavicles. 

(Anguidce.) — Agamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over; 
tongue with its anterior portion retractile, with clavicles cross-shaped 
or absent, and the exo-skeleton developed as osteo-dermal plates, 
each provided with a system of irregularly arranged aborescent or rad- 
iating tubules. 

Anielloidea. — Eriglossate saurians, with concavo convex vertebrse, 
clavicles not dilated posteriorly, and without post-frontal squamosal 
or ])Ost-orbital arches. 

{AniellidcB.) — The only known anielloidea, distinguished by the ab- 
sence of ante-orbital septum, and of the columella cranii, and without 
squamosals. 

Eelodermatoidea, — Eriglossate saurians with concavo-convex verte- 
brae; clavicles undilated proximally, and post orbital bony arches, but 
without post-fronto squamosal arches. 

{Helodermatidw.) — The only known family of the super-family, distin- 
guished further by the exclusion of the frontal from the orbit on account 
of the convergence and contact of the pre and post-frontals. 

Varanoidea. — Eriglossate saurians, with concavo-convex vertebrte; 
clavicles not delated proximally ; post-orbital arches, rudimentary or 
absent, and with i)ost-fronto squamosal arches developed. 

( Varanidce.) — The only known forms of the type, distinguished further 
by the union of the nasals into a single bone and the ensheathment of 
the tongue at its base and its deeply bifid emargination anteriorly. 

Lacertoidea.— Erigloamte saurians with the vertebrae concavo-convex; 
clavicles undilated proximally, and post-fronto squamosal at post-orbi- 
tal arches developed. 

{Xantusiidw.) — Lacertoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over 
and the parietals distinct. 



ZOOLOGY. 801 

(Teiidce.) — Lacertoidea with the supra-temporal fossa not roofed over 
and the parietals united into one, and without osteo-dermal plates. 

{Lacertidce.) — Lacertoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over; 
the parietal bones united ; the premaxillaries simple, single, and without 
osteo'dermal plates. 

{GerrhosauridcB.) — Lacertoidea with the supra-lsemporal fossa roofed 
over; parietal bones united; premaxillaries single, and with osteo-der- 
mal plates, each provided with a regular system of tubules (or trans- 
verse ones anastomosing wiih longitudinal ones). 

(Scincidce.) — Lacertoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over; 
the parietals joined, and with osteo-dermal plates, as in the Gerrhosau- 
ridae. 

Anelytropoidea. — Eriglossate saurians with the vertebrsB concavo-con- 
vex; the clavicles not dilated proximally, and without post-fronto 
squamosal or post-orbital arches. 

(Anelytropidw.) — Anelytropoidea with the premaxillaries single, and 
without osteo-dermal plates. 

Doubtful super-family. {Dibamidce.) — Anelytropoidea, with the pre- 
maxillaries double and without osteo-dermal plates. 

All the preceding twenty families are combined in the suborder "La- 
certilia vera" (which may be better called Eriglossa), and are distin- 
guished by the "nasal bones entering the. border of the nasal apertures; 
pterygoid in contact with the quadrate; clavicle present whenever the 
limbs are developed [and the] tongue flattened." 

The only remaining group or family of the order is that of the CJia- 
mwleontidw, v^hich represents alone the suborder " JBhiptoglossa," dis- 
tinguished by the " nasal bones not bounding the nasal apertures, ptery- 
goid not reaching quadrate; clavicle absent; limbs well developed, [and] 
tongue vermiform [and] projectile." 

The geographical distribution of Lizards. — Much difference is exhibited 
by the associations of diverse animal groups in fauual areas. If, for 
example, we compare the distribution of fishes and birds, it will be 
found that the major groups into which they are combined are very dif- 
ferent. The birds have accommodated themselves (to a large extent) to 
the present lay of the lands, while the fishes are distributed in such a 
manner as to convey the impression that the distribution has been de- 
termined by previous geological conditions and relations of the conti- 
nents. Dr. G. A. Boulenger has recently given the outlines of the 
geographical distribution of the Lacertilians, or lizards, and has called 
attention to the very great differeuce between their distribution and 
that of other groups of reptiles, as well as that of the Batrachians or 
Amphibians. " If," says Dr. Boulenger, " we attempt to divide the globe 
as to its Batrachian fauna, two primary divisions present themselves, 
viz. a northern zone, comprising the Palsearctic and Xearctic regions, 
and an equatorial southern zone; but for lizards we have to draw a 
H. Mis. 15 51 



802 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



line from pole to pole, forming the Old World and Australia on the one 
hand, and America on the other, into primary divisions." The families 
of lizards recognized by him are thrown into two great groups, — (A) 
"small families having a narrow range," and (B) " large and much more 
widely distributed families." Ten belong to one of these groups and 
eight to the other, distributed as follows : 



B. 



UroplatidiB, Madagascar. 

Pygopodidae, Australia. 

Xenosaurldae, Central America. 

Zonuridse, Soutli Africa and Madagas- 
car. 

Aniellidae, California. 

Helerdermatidae, Mexico. 

Xantusiidae, California, Central Amer- 
ica, and Cuba. 

Gerrhosauridae, Africa and Madagas- 
car. 

Anelytropidfe, Africa. 

Dibaniidte, New Guinea. 

Agamidaj. Most abundantly repre- 
sented in the East Indies, less so in 
Australia, still less in Afiica and 
Asia north of the Himalayas; ab- 
sent from Madagascar and New Zea- 
land. 

Iguanidaj. America. Two genera in 
Madagascar, and another in the Fiji 
Islands. 

Anguidae. The bulk of this family 



occupies Central America and the 
West Indies, spreading to North and 
South America. One genus {Anguis) 
in Europe and the Mediterranean 
district, another {Pseudopus) repre- 
sented by one species in the Medi- 
terranean district and one in the 
Khasia Hills. 

Varanidse. Africa (excluding Mada- 
gascar), Oriential region to Asia 
Minor, Australia. 

Teiidae. America. 

AmphisbaenidsB. Tropical and sub- 
tropical America (excluding Mada- 
gascar), and the Mediterranean re- 
gion. 

Lacertidas. Africa (excluding Mada- 
gascar), Europe, Asia ; few in the 
East Indies. 

Chamaeleoutidae. Africa (most abun- 
dant in Madagascar) ; one species, 
identical with a North African, ex- 
tending to India and Ceylon. 



As will be thus seen, the families enumerated are dispersed much in 
the same way as the birds, and in accord with the geograjjhical division 
of the continents into the Old World and the l^ew World, or, as they are 
termed by Mr. Boulenger, the "palaeogean and neogean realms." Ac- 
cording to Mr. Boulenger, " the latter is characterized by the presence 
of the Iguanidse, Teiidae, and abundance of Anguidae ; the former by Aga- 
midae, Varanidae, Lacertidae, and Chamaeleoutidse. This division is the 
more natural, as we find in both realms, within their respective fami- 
lies, a repetition of the same forms having adapted themselves to similar 
conditions. Few more striking examples of parallel series of forms can 
be found than the families Agamidae and Iguanidse, or the Lacertidae 
and Teiidae. Such parallel series occur in aiknost every division of the 
animal kingdom ; among the Batrachia we have the Arcifera and the 
Firmisternia ; among the Chelonia, the Cryptodira and the Pleurodira; 
and there can be no doubt that the indications furnished by the range 
of such analogous large groups are of the greatest importance in tracing 
the relationships of the faunas of the various parts of the world." 

It also appears, on proceeding to further subdivision, that "the 
Etliiopiau uiid Oriental or Indian regions, which in their Batrachians 
are so closely related, have little in common as regards lizards 5 whilst, 



ZOOLOGY. 803 

on the contrary, the Oriental and Australian, (so widely different in 
their Batrachians,) are extremely similar. We find also that the Palae- 
arctic or Europaeo- Asiatic, (the Batrachian fauna of which is so well 
characterized, and without any affinity whatever to the Ethiopian,) bears 
the closest resemblance to the latter region, differing only in the ab- 
sence of various types which flourish in the tropical and sub-tropical 
zones." 

In fine, according to Mr. Boulenger, " we arrive at the conclusion 
that the zoo-geographical regions generally in use, and especially their 
degree of relationship to one another, receive little support from the 
study of the distribution of the lizards ; that the distribution in zones, 
which is so satisfactorily shown by the Batrachians and the fresh- water 
fishes, is contrary to the plainest evidence as regards lizards, which at 
the present time range more according to longitude ; that the two great 
divisions originally proposed by Mr. Sclater, and derived from the study 
of passerine birds, hold good ; and that if a division of the world had to 
be framed according to the lizard faunas, the primary divisions would 
be the following: 

"I. Palceogean realm. — Two regions: 1. Occidental (=Pal8earctic re- 
gion, excluding the Manchurian subregion + Ethiopian region of Wal- 
lace); 2. Oriental (=Oriental + Australian regions of Wallace). 

"II. Neogean realm. — Nearctic + Neotropical regions.''^ 

The faunawhich especially interests Americans — that of the Neogean 
realm — may be briefly considered in the words of Mr. Boulenger. That 
fauna is " very uniform as regards groups of higher rank, and the changes 
from the center towards the north and south are very gradual. And 
it is noteworthy that the Central American fauna (of which the North 
American is but an offshoot) presents a greater variety of types than the 
South American ; thus it possesses representatives of every one of the 
eleven families which occur in the realm, viz : Geckonidae, Eublepha, 
ridse, Iguanidse, Xenosauridse, Anguidse, Aniellidse, Helodermatidse, 
Xantusiidae, Teiidae, Amphisbasnidje, and Sciucidfe ; whereas South 
America lacks the small groups Eublepharidse, Xenosauridse, Aniel- 
lidse, Helodermatidse, and Xantusiidae. As the greater abundance and 
variety of forms of the Anguidaj occurs in the Horthern lialf and the 
West Indies, and the reverse is the case as regards the Teiidre (espe- 
cially with reference to variety of genera) and the Amphisbsenidae, we 
may safely draw the boundary line between two regions or sub-regions, 
as it may be thought fit to term them, at the Isthmus of Panama, the 
West Indies being comprised with the northern region. Lizards range 
only as far north as British Columbia {Gerrhonotus cwruleus), Minnesota 
{Eumeces septentrionalis), and Massachusetts {Eumcces fasciatus) -, whilst 
they have penetrated to the straits of Magellan {Liolcemus magallen- 
icus).^'' — [Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 16, pp. 77-85.) 

The contrast oftered by the lizards to the fishes is marked, but not in 
tlie manner indicated by Dr. Boulenger. The fresh-water fishes are not 



804 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

distributed "in zones," but in quite a peculiar manner, althougb so com- 
plicated as to bave given rise to tbe different iuterj)retations of facts, 
of wbicb Mr. Boulenger's (originating witb Dr. Giiutber) is one expres- 
sion. Tbe regions of Sclater and Wallace, so far as tbe fisbes are con- 
cerned, are ratber grouped as follows : 

I. Genogcean hemisphere. — Tbree regions: 1. Nearctic ; 2. Falcearctic; 
3. Oriental. 

II. Eogcean hemisphere. — Tbree regions : I.Ethiopian; 2. Neotropical; 
3. Australian. 

Biped progression in a lizard. 

A singular lizard of tbe family of tbe Agamids, baving a frill-like de- 
velopment of tbe integument on eacb side of tbe bead and neck conflu- 
ent below,'is found in I^ortbern and Western Australia. It bas a com- 
pressed body and a roundisb tail, forming about two-tbirds of tbe entire 
lengtb, wbicb amounts to between two and tbree feet. Its name is 
Cblamydosaurus Kingii, or tbe fringed lizard. 

It seems, from observation by Mr. Cbaries W. De Yis, tbat tbis lizard 
is capable, to a limited extent, of a billed metbod of locomotion. On two 
occasions individuals were observed to adopt tbis metbod of progression, 
" trotting out briskly" on tbe bind limbs and witb tbe "fore paws bang- 
ing down," so as to give tbe idea of affectation to tbe observer. Tbe 
" vertebral line to tbe very snout " was " stiffened at an angle of 60 
degrees ;" tbe animal at lengtb baited abruptly, erected its frill, and at 
tbe same moment turned its bead inquiringly from side to side ; tben 
trotted on again for 20 yards or so, and, repeating its attitude of atten- 
tion, continued in tbis course until it reacbed a tree it was making for; 
wben tbis was reacbed it darted up tbe trunk and clung tbere immov- 
able for a long time, or, in tbe words of Mr. De Vis, " for more bours " 
tban bis " leisure could afford for observation." Tbe listening attitude 
was "so real, or at least so realistic," that it appeared to Mr. De Vis 
tbat " one function of tbe bood migbt be tbat of conducting sound to 
tbe tympanum, an office apparently aided by tbe cbannels formed by 
its converging folds, and tbat if it were so it migbt be furnisbed witli 
special muscles." Anotber subject of inquiry suggested by the animal 
was tbe muscular furniture and other modifications of structure exhib- 
ited by tbe bind limbs. An investigation of tbe myology was therefore 
instituted. Tbe result of tbis investigation was, on tbe whole, " some- 
wbat disappointing " to Mr. De Vis. 

Tbe frill was found to be " served by special, though feeble, muscles, 
as well as by a large extension of tbe functions of some ordinary ones." 
Tbe muscles " specialized for tbe purpose of assisting in the elevation 
and depression of the hood do not of themselves indicate very clearly 
tbat the ai^pendage is in a strict sense an auditory conch. But since 
they certainly forbid tbe idea generated by the presence of the cartilage 
and by the observed actions of the animal, that the bood may serve tp 



ZOOLOGY. 805 

arrest sound and direct it toward the ear, we may, if we can overcome 
our disinclination to attribute an auricle to a reptile, recognize this as 
part of its office, without prejudice to its supposed use as an engine of 
terror to assailants." 

The modifications of the hind limbs were not as great as might be 
naturally sui)posed, although ]\lr. De Vis thought that he might "fairly 
be allowed an expression of surprise on finding that the semi-erect at- 
titude and plantigrade gait of the creature are not facilitated by any 
additions or modifications in the hind quarters and limbs.'' iSTo essen- 
tial difi'erences from ordinary lizards are apparent. " The possibility of 
raising the body on the legs is rather permitted by circumstances gen- 
erally favorable than brought about by direct means. It is in the com- 
parative shortness and lightness of the head and anterior part of the 
trunk ; the length without undue weakness of the hind limb ; above all," 
as it appeared to ]Mr. De Vis, " the imperfect isolation of the several 
muscles, which enables them to act in certain directions with combined 
strength, that we must find an exi^lanation of the power possessed by 
this lizard of simulating the gait of a cursorial bird." {Proc. Linn. Soc. 
JV. 8. Wales, v. 8, pp. 300-320.) 

Birds. 

Important collections in the British Museum. — Two extremely impor- 
tant and rich collections of bird-skins have been given to the British 
Museum by their owners; one especially devoted to American species, 
and the other to Indian forms. ♦ 

The American collection was the result of collections during a number 
of years by Messrs. Osbert Salvin and Frederick Du Cane Godman, of 
Loudon, and contained " upwards of 20,000 specimens." Many types of 
formerly "new species" are in the collection, and numerous memoirs, as 
well as the ornithological portion of the " Biologia Centrali-Americana," 
have been based on its contents, and, indeed, the specimens belonging 
to the families not yet studied for the latter work are reserved by the 
authors till their examinations shall be finished. There is said to be 
"a stipulation in the terms of gift that any specimen required by the 
donors may be removed on loan from the museum during the lifetime 
of the donors or the survivor of them." {Ibis, (5,) v. 3, p. 236.) 

The Indian collection is due to the unsparing efforts and expenditures 
of Mr. Allen O. Hume, an Indian government officer, and contained not 
less than " 63,000 birds," besides " 18,500 eggs " and "500 nests." The 
sum of £300 was appropriated by the English Government for "pack- 
ing and transmitting from Simla to England a part of Mr. Hume's col- 
lection of Indian birds, ])resented by him to the trustees" of the museum. 
Mr. R. B. Sharpe, the curator of the ornithological section of the mu- 
seum, " started for Simla the end of April to superintend the packing of 
the collection," and was absent several months. JMr. Sharpe has good 
reason for thinking that "it is not too much to affirm that such a private 



806 



SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 



collection as Mr. Hume's is not likely to be formed again, ft)r it is doubt 
ful if such a combination of genius for organization with energy for the 
completion of so great a scheme, and the scientific knowledge requisite 
for its proper development, will ag^ain be combined in a single indi- 
vidual." * 

The ornithological department of the British Museum, previously 
ahead of all comi>etitors, has, by these acquisitions, become incompar- 
ably richer. {Ihis (5), v. 3, pp. 236, 334, 335, 456-403.) 

Nefiting of a Woodpecker. — Interesting observations have been made 
on the nesting of the brown woodpecker, scientifically known as Microp 
ternus phaeoceps, by. Mr. Charles Bingham, deputy conservator of the 
forests of British Burmah. While passing through the Meplay forest re- 
serve, he startled a woodpecker from a small pyingado tree {Xylia dolab- 
riformis). Looking up into the branches, he saw "a lar^^e ants' nest, in 
the center of which appeared a circular hole so exactly like the bor- 
ings made by woodpeckers ordinarily in the trunks of trees," that he 
sent up a Karen boy, who was with him, '■'■ to ascertain whether it was 
possible the Micropternus had been boring into the ants' nest," as he 
" had heard was the bird's curious habit. The ants' nest was only about 
10 feet above the ground, placed in a fork of the pyingado, two small 
branches of which passed clean through it. Climbing up, putting in bis 
fingers and then a twig," the boy " announced that there were two 
eggs." Leaving the nest alone for the time being, in the evening Mr. 
Bingham returgied by the same route, and he was " able not only to cut 
oft" and carry into camp the whole nest as it was," but he "managed to 
secure also the hen bird as she flew from the eggs." Arrived at camp, 
he "got the two eggs out, and then very carefully made a cross-section 
through the ants' nest so as to divide the boring made by the wood- 
pecker longitudinally." The ants' nest was "a large, spherical, solid 
mass of leaves and clay, the leaves outside being arranged one over the 
other something like the tiles on the roof of a house, but riddled in many 
places with the entrance tunnels made by the ant, a small black and red 
species of Myrmica." " Very few of the ants remained in the nest, and 
the few that were about seemed agitated and stung virulently. Prob- 
ably the mass of them had been driven off or eaten by the woodpeckers. 
The tunnel the latter had made was about two inches in diameter and 
four inches long, bored horizontally in, and ending in an irregular- 
shaped egg-chamber about ten and a half inches in cross-diameter, but 
narrowed by the branch of pyingado, which pierced the nest through 
and through and crossed the egg-chamber diagonally. The bottom of 
this chamber alone was smooth, but there was no lining, and the two 
translucent white eggs of the woodpecker had rested on the bare boards, 
so to speak, of the ants' house. In the excavations made by the ants 
themselves there were neither eggs, larvae, nor pupae ; probably these all 
had been removed when the woodpeckers invaded the nest," {Nature^ 
vol. 32, pp. 52, 53.) 



ZOOLOGY. 807 

Tlie teleology oftlie plumage of the male Birdsof -Paradise. — The natural 
inference in the present state of biological 'science in explanation of the 
sportive plumage of the male birds-of paradise would be that it was for 
the attraction of the females. Little has begn known however of the 
habits of even the comparatively common species. Two English gen- 
tlemen, Messrs. Chalmers and Wyatt, while travelling in New Guinea, 
observed some species, and have recorded a meeting of males and females 
of one of the species which is of interest in this connection. Their ac- 
count is here reproduced in their own words : 

" One morning we had camped on a spur of the Owen Stanley Range, 
and being up early, to enjoy the cool atmosphere, 1 saw, on one of the 
clumps of trees close by, six birds-of-paradise, four cocks and two hens. 
The hens were sitting quietly on a branch, and the four cocks, dressed 
in their very best, their ruffs of green and yellow standing out, giving 
them a large, handsome appearance about the head and neck, their 
long, flowing plumes so arranged that every feather seemed carefully 
combed out, and the long wires stretched well out behind, were dancing 
in a circle around them. It was an interesting sight; first one, then 
another, would advance a little nearer to a hen, and she, coquette-like, 
would retire a little, pretending not to care for any advances. A shot 
was fired, contrary to my expressed wish ; there was a strange commo- 
tion, and two of the cocks flew away ; the others and the hens remained. 
Soon the two returned, and again the dance began and continued long. 
As I had strictly forbidden any more shooting, all fear was gone; and 
so, after a rest, the males came a little nearer to the dark brown and 
certainly not pretty hens. Quarreling ensued, and in the end all six 
birds flew away. Passing through a forest at the back of the Astro- 
labe, I saw several more engaged as above ; our approach startled them, 
and away they flew. Anxious to taste the flesh, I had one cooked after 
being skinned ; but, although boiled for several hours, it was as tough 
as leather, and the soup not much to our taste. Fortunately we had 
other things for dinner, so jjut the paradise dish aside." (Chalmers and 
Wyatt's Work and Adventures in New Guinea; Ihis^ (5), v. 3, pp. 4C3, 
4()4.) 

New Birds-of -Paradise.— The birds-of-paradise are pre-eminent among 
all birds for the excessive and eccentric development in the males of 
special feathers, or feathers on special parts of the body, and the great 
variation observable, in otherwise similar forms, as to the special feath- 
ers or parts in which such development is manifested. Almost every 
genus (eighteen genera were recognized in 1877) has its own peculiar 
system of hypertrophied or eccentric feather pattern. New Guinea is 
the headquarters of the family, and of the thirty-four known up to 1877 
lew were found outside of that great island, and those few only in the 
neighboring smaller islands and Australia. During the past year six 
additional species were described from a collection made chiefly in the 



808 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Alpine regfon of southeastern New Guinea, and two of these exhibit 
phases of plumage entailing generic distinction. They have been de- 
scribed by Messrs. O. Finsch and A. B. Meyer, and beautifully illus- 
trated in the ''Zeitschrift fiir die gesaramte Ornithologi(»." The new 
species of jireviously known genera are Phonygama purpureoviolacea, 
Epiniochus Meyeri^ Paradisea Finschi, and Dipliyllodes Hunsteini, while 
the remaining two {Astrarchia Stephanice and Paradisornis HudolpM) 
represent hitherto unknown genera. The Astrarchia is related to As 
tropia, but the two middle tail-feathers are very elongated and concave 
above, while the lateral ones are short. The Paradisornis is allied to 
Paradisea, but the two middle tail-feathers are very long, narrow, and 
spatuliform, and the bill is higher and more compressed ; the long 
flank Illumes are especially remarkable for the blue of different shades 
which distinguish them. (Z. g. 0., v. 2, pp. 360-391, pi. 15-22.) 

An insular genus of Birds. — The faunas of the archipelagos are in- 
teresting on account of the limited distribution of the resident species 
and the fact that many of those species are peculiar to special islands 
or groups of neighboring islands, but represented by kindred species in 
other parts of the archipelago. Such is the case with a genus of war- 
blers, (Certhiola) almost characteristic of the West Indies, although sev 
eral species are likewise found on the mainland of South and Middle 
America or in Florida. The species of the genus have been subjected 
to a revision lately by Mr. Robert Eidgway, and nineteen species are ad- 
mitted. Of these four species {Certhiola hahamensis, C. mexicana, C. 
luteola, and C. chloropyga) are found on the mainland, two (0. mexicana 
and C. chloropyga) being confined to the continent, while of the others 
one {C. bahamensis) is found in Southern Florida as well as the Baha- 
mas, and another {C. luteola) occurs in Tobago as well as Trinidad, Vene- 
zuela, and Colombia. The other species are exclusively confined to 
special islands or groups of islands, ench of the large or well separated 
islands, as Cuba, Hayti, Porto Rico, Jamaica, Martinique, and Barba- 
does, having its special species. {Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. viii, pp. 25-30.) 

Mammals. 

The ancestry of Mammals. — Much diiference of opinion has prevailed 
as to the ancestry of the mammals. Formerly it was generally sup- 
posed that they were derived from such forms as the Diuosaurians or 
that they were at least cognate with such reptiles. Later it was urged 
by Professor Huxley (and the view has been accepted with considerable 
favor) that the ancestry was to be sought among the amphibians. 
Against both views, however, there were various objections. Professor 
Copehas lately been disposed to consider that the nearest of kin were cer- 
tain reptiles that lived during the Permian epoch. These reptiles have 
been called the Theromorpha and are characterized in that the quadrate 



ZOOLOGY. 809 

bone is fixed aud the ribs are two-headed ; the pre-coracoid bone is 
present aud the coracoid bone is of reduced size and is free at the ex- 
tremity; the vertebral centra are deeply biconcave, and the pubis is 
entirely anterior to the ischium, and is united with it without interven- 
ing: obturator foramen. The order tb us distinguished has been mostly 
studied in remains found in the Permian deposits of Texas, but like 
forms have been found at the Cape of Good Hope as well as in Per- 
mian deposits in Europe. Some of'the representatives were of the order 
long ago exhumed in Cape Colony aud were described by Professor 
Owen under the name Therodontia. The great English naturalist 
noticed the similarity in the teeth as well as in the bone of the leg, es- 
pecially of the anterior leg of the reptiles to corresponding parts of mam- 
mals, but the full significance of the similarities was not appreciated 
until subjected to examination by Professor Cope. Professor Cope di- 
vides the theromorphous reptiles into two divisions : first, the Anoino- 
dontia, where there are several sacral vertebrae, and the vertebrae are 
not notochordal ; and second, the Pelycosauria, where the vertebrae are 
notochordnl, and there are only two or three sacral vertebrae. It is the 
latter suborder that is most noteworthy. Its species are*so far only 
known from beds of the Permian epoch. They were moreover the only 
known reptiles of that epoch, for it is not until the following or Triassic 
period that the orders which characterize Mesozoic time made their ap- 
pearance. 

Professor Cope has given details on the " structure of the columella 
auris in Clepsydrops lei)toupbalus," on the '• structure of the quadrate 
bone in the genus Clepsydrops," and on " the articulation of the ribs in 
Embolophorus," and on " the posterior foot in Pelycosauria." The con- 
sideration of the characteristics revealed by this examination has led 
Professor Coi)e to the following conclusions : 

(1) " The relations and number of the bones of the posterior foot are 
those of the Mammalia much more than those of the Eei)tilia." 

(2) " The relations of the astragalus and calcaneum to each other aie 
as in the Monotreme Platypus anatinus," or rather Ornithorhynchus 
anatinus. 

(3) " The articulation of the fibula with both calcaneum and astraga- 
lus is as in the Monotreme order of mammals." 

(4) "The separate articulation of the anterior part of the astragalus 
with the tibia is as in the same order." 

(5) "The presence of a facet for an articulation of a spur is as in the 
same order." 

((>) "The posterior- exterior direction of the digits is as in the known 
species of the Monotremata." 

Professor Cope concludes from this survey that tliere are good "rea- 
sons for believing that the mammalfa are the descendants of the Pely- 
cosauria." {Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sc, v. 3."J, pp. 471-482.) 



810 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

The temperature of the body in Monotremes. — The mean temperature of 
the body of mammals is but little under or over 100° F. : — according to 
Dr. John Davies' observations on thirty-one different species, lOfo 10' 
F. The corresponding temperature has been measured by Baron M. 
Miclucho Maclay, in two species of Monotremes of Australia, and it ap- 
pears that it is much lower than in most other mammals, an interesting 
fact in connection with the relation of the forms to the amphibians and 
reptiles. 

A thermometer inserted in the cloaca of the duck-mole or Ornitho- 
rhynchus paradoxus and allowed to remain therefor five minutes indicated 
a temperature of 7(P 3' F., the temperature of the air being at the sam« 
time 73° C F., and the water of the tub in which it had been placed at 
750 8' F. 

The Spiny ant-eater, or Tachyfflossns aculeatus, showed a somewhat 
higher temperature, a thermometer, also introduced into the cloaca, 
denoting a temperature of 82° 4' F. Baron Maclay, believing that the 
large opening of the cloaca had interfered with the correctness of the ob- 
servations in the case of the first observations, made a small incision, 
just large enough to introduce the oblong bulb of the thermometer into 
the cavity of the abdomen, and the thermometer was left in over ten 
minutes. The scale indicated a temperature of 86^ F. {Proc. Linn. 
Soc. N. S. Wales, v.. 8, part 4.) 

A new Porpoise. — The species of the genus Phocaena, in which are in- 
cluded the typical porpoises (perhaps better known to many as the pufi"- 
ing pigs or bay-porpoises), are in some confusion, it being doubtful 
whether certain variations observed are of specific or individual value. 
However, seven species have been quite generally recognized by cetol- 
ogists. These are all very closely related and agree essentially in the 
number of vertebrae. But a species has lately been found in the Alas-kan 
waters, and described by Mr. F. W. True as the Phoccena Balli, which 
differs much from its relatives in the sum of the vertebrae ; it has twenty- 
seven lumbar and forty-nine caudal in place of fourteen lumbar and thir- 
ty-two caudal, as has the Phoccena communis and (approximately at least) 
the hitherto known species. In all, the Phoccena Balli has about ninety- 
seven or ninety-eight vertebrae, while the other species have only from 
sixty-three to sixty-six. The newly-discovered species exhibits also 
striking peculiarities in the coloration as well as in the shape of the 
dorsal fin. The only specimen that has been noticed by naturalists 
was 6 feet long. {Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., v. 8, pp. 95, pi, 2-5.) 

The Fin-whale Fishery of Norway. — At Vado, in East Finmarken, fin- 
whales are found in sufficient numbers to be subjects of a profitable fish- 
ery, and various observations have been made on the habits of the ani- 
mals. In 1885, Dr. Robert Collet, a well-known Norwegian naturalist, 
made interesting observations upon the structure and habits of Ru- 



ZOOLOGY. 811 

dolpbi's whale {B. borealis), wbicli was "captured in considerable num- 
bers during the latter part of July, although the great blue whale 
[B. nibbaldii), ^'enerally so numerous," was not then to be seen along 
1 he coast. This is attributed to the absence of the Thysanopoda in- 
erniis, a small crustacean on wliich the blue whale feeds. "Kudolphi's 
whale is called 'seje' or 'cod' whale by the Norwegians, as it ap- 
l»ears on the coast at the same time as that fish, but its food is 
also a crustacean of still smaller species than that, which is the chief 
nourishment of its gigantic relative." It generally visits the coast of 
Finmark between May and August, and Guldberg states that its aver- 
•.\^e length is about 40 feet, but it sometimes reaches a length of 50 feet. 
'•'• Its color is black, and does not exhibit the bluish tint" seen in the B. 
muscalus, as well as B. sibbaldii. "The sides are spotted with white, 
and the under parts are white with a faint reddish tinge. A new use 
to which the whales killed at Vado have been lately put is tinning their 
flesh, which is said to be wholesome and to find great favor in Catholic 
countries, where, being fish according to the zoology of the church, it 
is allowed to be eaten on fast days." {Nature^ v. 32, p. 374.) 

Texan Horses of the Pliocene epoch. — It would seem, from the researches 
of Professor Cope, that no less than five species of horse-like animals of 
the genus Equus lived in what is now Texas during the Pliocene period, 
and some of them appear to have been very abundant. Of these five 
si)ecies, four also lived at same time in the valley- of Mexico, while one 
is " peculiar to the Pacific coast and basin of North America." Of the 
characteristic species of the eastern United States {E. fraternus and 
J'J. major), only one (the E.fraternus) has been found in the Texas de- 
posits. (Am. Nat., v. 19, pp. 1208-1209, pi. 37.) 

The Gayal and Gaur. — By t;he old naturalists, the two largest bovine 
animals of India known as the gayal and gaur were supposed to be very 
distinct animals. Of late, however, several have contended that they 
were merely forms of the same species, one being the wild animal and 
the other the semi-domesticated form, although others have main- 
tained that the gayal existed as a distinct species in the wild state. It 
was urged in 1883, by Mr. J. Sarbo, that there is no such thing as a wild 
gayal. Now, according to Mr. Blanford, "one most important cir- 
cumstance mentioned by Blyth, on apparently (jxcellent authority, is 
that the gaur is kept tame in the interior of the Chittagong Hills, and 
(as a tame animal) is quite distinct from Bos frontalis. If this is the case, 
hybrids are very likely to occur, for the gayal breeds freely with the- 
much less allied Zebu, and such hybrids may account for the occurrence 
of forms intermediate between the gayal and gaur. An indication that 
such forms exist is," so far as Mr. Blanford can see, "the only evidence 
brought forward by Dr. Kuhn in favor of the gaj al being a domesti- 



812 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

cated race of the gaur," the "supposed discovery that the tame gayal or 
wild gaur inhabit the same country, being," in the words of IMr. Blauford, 
" a singularly iine example of a nidus equce.^^ {Nature, v. 32, p. 243.) lu 
this conHict of testimony and belief, more light is required before im- 
plicit reliance in either of the contrasted opinions is safe. 



NECROLOGY OF ZOOLOGISTS, 1885. 

Baxjmhauer (Eduard Henry von), secretary of the Holland Society of Sciences 
at Haarlem ; died at Haarlem, January 18, 1885, in the sixty-sixth year of his age. 

Bland (Thomas), a well-known student of American land shells, long resident in 
Brooklyn, N. Y., where he died August 20, 1885. He was born in Nottinghamshire, 
England, October 4, 1809. 

Carpenter (Dr. William Benjamin), a very eminent English physiologist and 
naturalist, died in London, November 10, 1885, aged seventy-two. 

Davidson (Thomas), an English paliBOutologist, who devoted the greater part of 
his life to the study of the Brachiopods, died at West Brighton, October 16, 1885, in 
his sixty -ninth year. 

Dunker (Prof.), a German paljEontologist and mineralogist, died at Marburg. 

Edwards (Henri Milne), one of the most distinguished zoologists of the century; 
born October 2:i, 1800, at Bruges, Belgium ; died July 29, 1885, at Paris. 

ESMARK (Lauritz), director of the zoological museum of the University of Chris- 
tiana, Norway, died in Christiana, December — , 1885. 

Guy (W. a.), F. R. S., an English physiologist and physician, died September 10, 
1885, in the seventy-sixth year of his age. 

Harting (P.), professor of zoology in the University of Utrecht, died at Utrecht, 
December 7, 1885. 

Heule ( ), one of the most eminent of European anatomists, died at Gottin- 

gen, May 13, 1885. 

Hough (Franklin Benjamin), for a time United States commissioner of forestry, 
and a student of natural history, died June 11, 1885, aged sixty-two. 

Jefp'Reys (John Gwyn), an English conchologist, died at London, January 24, 
1885. He was born at Swansea, Wales, January 18, 1809. 

JOLY (Nicolas), a French naturalist, died at Toulouse, October 17, 1885, in the 
seventy-fourth year of his age. 

Kerr (William C), of the United States Geological Survey and long State geolo- 
gist of North Carolina, died at Asheville, N. C, August 9, 1885. 

Martin (Philipp Leopold), a writer on zoological subjects, and especially on 
muscology and taxidermy, died March 7, 1885, aged seventy. 

Nevill (Geoffrey), an English conchologist, author of a number of papers on 
Indian shells, &c., died at Davos Platz, February 10, 1885, in his forty-second year. 

Parry (Maj. F. T. Sidney), an English entomologist, died February 1, 1885. 

Peale (Titian Ramsay), a contemporary of Say and Lesueur, and naturalist of the 
United States exploring expedition commanded by Wilkes, died at Philadelphia 
March 13, 1885, in his eighty-sixth year. 

Robin (Charles), professor of histology in the faculty of medicine at Paris since 
1832, died at Paris, October, 1885, in the sixty -fifth year of his age. 

Rye (Edwaiid Caldwell), an English entomologist, died February 7, 1885, aged 
fifty-two. 

Severtsoff (N.), a Russian zoologist, died from cold, resulting from a fall througli 
the ice in the river Don, January 11, 1885. 



ZOOLOGY. 81 



o 



SiEBOLD (Carl Theodor Ernst von), oue of the most learned and celebrated of 
European biologists, died at Munich, April — , 1885; bom at Wiirzburg, February 16, 
1804. 

Stein (Friedrich Eitter von), professor of zoology in the University of Prague, 
died February — , 1885, aged sixty-seven. 

Weyenbergh (H.), piofessor of zoology in the University of Cordoba, Argentine 
Republic, died at Haarlem (Holland), July 25, 1885. 

Wood (William), a student of American ornithology, died at East Windsor Hill, 
Conn., August 9, 1685, aged sixty -three years. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



By Otis T. Mason. 



rNTRODUCTION. 

Au exhaustive cliionicle of Anthropology for the year 1885 woukl coii- 
taiu the accouut of a few geueral and a vaKst number of special works of 
great importance. A cursory view of the titles appended to this brief 
summary reveals the fact that new portions of the human frame, and 
new groui^s of human phenomena, are yearly brought within the area 
of scientific investigation. Hand in hand with the widening of the do- 
main of inquiry has gone on, also, the invention of more refined appa- 
ratus of research, and the increase of ingenious methods for bringing 
knowledge into new combinations to ascertain and express means and 
averages. With respect to the last point, it is gratifying to note that 
more than one anthropologist has realized the fact that any expression 
of means which does not also preserve the exact status of each com- 
ponent is faulty. 

There is one element of true scientific investigation which, under the 
pressure of circumstances, is being better systematized by anthropolo- 
gists. It is the classification of the subjects with which they have to 
deal, according to the laws of evidence. If we may be permitted the use 
of the term, the knowledges which underlie their scientific speculations 
and deductions differ most widely, some resting on the testimony of a 
single individual who has destroyed the last vestige of evidence by 
which he could make good his word; other reasonings are based upon 
the preservation of material in such form and abundance, and with 
such authentication, as to put it within the power of any investigator 
to report experiments or examine methods. Surely conclusions based 
upon these two kinds of evidence would diHer greatly in their breadth 
of base. If a report of progress in any science should not omit to call 
attention to improvements manifested in the methods of the investiga- 
tor, much more should it mark growing tendencies to conform itself to 
rigid logic in its inferences. 

WORKS OF GENERAL, IMPORTANCE. 

The Academy of Natural Sciences in rhiladel])hia organized courses 
of scientific lectures during the year, and elected Dr. Daniel G. Brinton, 

8X5 



816 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

professor of ethnology and archaeology. The subjects covered were 
Palaeolithic Man; the Races of Men; the White Race: Civilization, its 
Origin and Elements, its Centers, its Stages, and its Goal ; Art in 
stone, wood, bone, shell, metal, and clay; Textile art and decoration, 
and Mnemonic design. 

The American Association for the Advancement of Science met at 
Ann Arbor, Mich. The section of anthropology, under the vice-presi- 
dency of Mr. William H. Dall, confined its discussions chiefly to those 
lines easily suggested by the environment, viz., the mound-builders, and 
the Dakota stock of Indians. The vice-presidential address was a 
studied discussion of the tribes of Alaska. 

Volume VI of the Index Catalogue of the Surgeon -General's Library 
appeared in 1885, with titles from Heastie to Inseldt. Works of value 
to anthropologists will be found catalogued under Heredity, Hermaph- 
rodites, Hippocrates, Histology, Homicide, Humerus, Hypnotism, Idiots, 
Imagination, India, Indians, Infant, Infanticide, Insane and Insanity 
(157 closely printed pages), and Insects. 

Filling's Bibliography contains the titles in full, and in important cases, 
an abstract of everything that has been published upon the languages 
of North American aborigines. Six years of uninterrupted labor have 
been bestowed upon this colossal work. The index to the volume fur- 
nishes an excellent synonymy of tribal names. 

The work of the Bureau of Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, included that done in the field by archaeologists, ethnologists, and 
linguists, and the publication of the third annual report The special 
papers will be referred to under the names of their contributors. The 
introduction, by Maj. J. W. Powell, the Director of the Bureau, is far 
more than a resume of the labors of others. The paper on Omaha Soci- 
ology, by Mr. Dorsey, evoked the expression of the Director's opin- 
ions upon sociology among savages, a subject to which he has devoted 
much thought; and Mr. Dall's paper on Labretifery and Masks draws 
out a chapter on activital similarities, in which certain rules are laid 
down with reference to the origin of like inventions in different parts 
of the world. 

The Smithsonian Annual Report for 1885 will contain two volumes, 
one relating to the work of the Institution, the second to the work of 
the IS^ational Museum, where the subject of Anthropology is organized 
as follows: 

1. Arts and Industries. Mr. G. Brown Goode, assisted by Mr. R. T. 
Earle, on Fisheries; Captain Collins, on Il^avigation ; Mr. William H. 
Holmes and A. Howard Clarke, on Keiamics; Rorayn Hitchcock, on 
Textiles and Foods. 

2. Ethnology and Aboriginal Technology. Prof. Otis P. Mason. 

3. Archa3ology. Dr. Charles Rau. 

Anthropo-biology, Anatomy, and Anthropometry, are under the 
charge of the Army Medical Museum. 



Anthropology. K 1 7 

Art au(l medieval armor find their resting place at present in the 
Corcoran Art Gallery. 

In 18S5 was organized in Washington the Woman's Anthroi)ological 
Society, v»ith Mrs. Tilly Stevenson as president, and Miss Sarah Scull 
as corresponding secretary. The object of this association is twofold — 
to conduct investigations to which the avenues are especially open to 
women, and to encourage the sex in the prosecution of scientific work. 

The Iilcole d'Anthropologie, of Paris, carried through successfully dur- 
ing the year the following programme: 

Zoologic Anthropology. — M. Mathias Duval. Anthropogeny and Em- 
bryology compared; study of the first phases of development. 

General Anthropology. — Dr. Paul Topinard. Analytical study of ra- 
cial characteristics; difference between races and i)eoples; evolution of 
races in time. 

Frehistoric Anthropology. — M. de Mortillet. Les 'J'emps photohisto- 
riques. 

Ethnology. — M. Dally. 1. Description of human races; their geo- 
graphical distribution; races supposed to be pure, crosses of certain 
ethnic groups. 2. Sociology according to Compte & Spencer. 

IJnguistic Anthroijology. — M. Hovelacque. Language in its relations 
to races and peoj)les. 

Medical Geography. — M. Bordier. Influences of environment and in 
particular of social environment upon the production, progress, and 
spread of diseases. 

Complementary course. — Zoologic Anthropology. M. Herve. Paral- 
lelisms of anatomy between man and the higher animals. Comparative 
anatomy of the muscles and the viscera. Comparative and human tera- 
tology; monstrosities in general. 

Biologic Anthropology. — M. Blanchard. General physiological resem- 
blances between man and the animals. 

Composite Photography is taking its place among the instruments of 
anthropology, in one case the handwriting having been subjected to its 
methods in order to arrive at the ty]>e or mean expression of each letter. 
In this case the purpose was t'o detect fraud. Dr. Xeubauer has made 
an excellent study of the race types of the Jews, followed up by Mr. 
Jacobs with a similar investigation concerning the modern Jews. His 
composite photographs of Jewish lads will be examined with great in- 
terest. 

A serious j^roblem in deductive anthropology is a graphic method of 
illustration, which, while it exhibits means and averages, at the same 
time does not conceal individualities. Tables of means have long given 
dissatisfiiction. Binomial curves are of great use up to three or fojir 
series, after that, colors must be used, the printing of which is expen- 
sive. It has been the practice with the author of this summary in show- 
ing the distribution of mounds, «S:;c.. to take a county or township map, 
and to put a dot or other plain symbol for each mound, heaj), work, &c. 
H. Mis. l.j 52 



818 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

The result, of course, exhibits in situ the extent and density of each 
type. M. Manouvrier has improved on this in a paper read before the 
Paris Anthropological Society. His plan is to place across the top of 
the page the whole range of indices, each index number inclosed be- 
tween two vertical lines. Down the left margin of the page may be 
written the names, races, &c., under consideration. Each measurement 
taken is indicated by a dot in the proper square. In the space with the 
name may occur the whole number of examples, while at the right ex- 
tremity of the same line may be written the mean. This system is 
varied by M. Manouvrier by introducing horizontal Hues of dots for 
squares and i^utting actual fractional parts for dots. 

The Societ6 Americaine de France has undertaken the composition of 
a dictionary of American archceology to be published in its name and 
under its auspices. A committee has been appointed to divide the work 
among the members of the society. The secretary of the committee 
will prei)are the list of words for the dictionary. The committee con- 
sists of the following-named gentlemen : MM. Auben, Leon de Eosny, 
Malte Bruu, Oastaing, Remi, Simeon, and Peuvrier. 

ARCHEOLOGY. 

Mr. William H. Holmes had occasion during the year to examine the 
collections of mound-builde^i'S pottery in the Museum of the Davenport 
Academy. In paste, manipulation, and functions, this ware differs not 
in the least from that which has been frequently described as coming 
from the Mississippi Valley. The great merit of Mr. Holmes's work is 
the analysis and classification of form and the philosopliic treatment of 
the subject of decoration. 

An archaeological experiment of the greatest value was made by Mr. 
Holmes. Koticing that very many fragments of ancient American pot- 
tery preserved marks of textiles he conceived the notion that a cast in 
fine sculptor's clay or plaster would restore the fabric. The methods 
and results of these experiments are given in the third annual report of 
the Bureau of Ethnology. It is highly* important that these experi- 
ments should be followed up on pottery from different parts of the 
world. The same author has published a paper on the evidences of suc- 
cessive populations in the valley of the city of Mexico. 

Dr. Abbott's publication in the American ISTaturalist on archseological 
frauds opens our eyes to the enormous amount of these practices. Aris- 
totle's rule not to believe an archaiologist unless he preserves the evi- 
dences of his assertions, will have to be rigorously applied, in order to 
subdue this pestilential element in a noble science. 

The Rev, S. D. Peet has written a series of articles on the symbolism 
of the ancient Americans, his work being mainly directed to collating 
the many types used in mythic representations. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 819 

The Americau Journal of Archseology and History of Fine Arts was 
Ibunded at the Johns Hopkins University under the editorship of Mr. 
A. S. Frothingham. The numbers which have appeared exhibit the 
policy of the journal to be of the exalted standard adoi)ted by the other 
serial publications of the university. 

The discussion of the question, who were the mound-builders'? has 
received a fresh impetus from the ground taken by Major Powell and 
the Bureau of Ethnology that the so-called mound-builders were none 
others than the immediate ancestors of the Indians inhabiting the 
United States at the time of its first exploration. Mr. Cyrus Thomas 
has devoted several papers to the discussion of the subject. 

A course of Archaeology was endowed during the year in Lisbon iiu 
der the patronage of Prince Charles, and in charge of M. da Silva. 
Prizes to the amount of $250 will be divided among the students. 

Ilie Precursor of Man. — M. Gabriel de Mortillet is the author of the 
theory that the flints of Thenay were the workmanship not of man at 
all but of his precursor, the anthropopithecus. The argument of this 
distinguished archieologist is somewhat as follows: The study of i)a- 
leontology acquaints us with the succession of animals. We know 
that animals have varied from one epoch to another, and that these 
variations are the more profound as the epochs are removed in time. 
We know also that the higher the organism the more rapid have been 
the variations. 

The mammals of the upper Tertiary are different from those of to- 
day. Man cannot have escaped tliis law. If evidences of workman- 
ship exist in the Tertiary, they prove the existence not of man but of 
his precursor. 1. In Otta, Portugal, in the valley of the Tagus, at 
the base of the Pliocene, have been found worked flints. 2. Puy 
Courny, near Aurillac (Cantal), same horizon, has furnished silex both 
wrought and transported. 3. Thenay (Loir-et-Cher) reveals a being 
intelbgent enough to soften flint by fire in order to make it more tract- 
able, although the beds are older than those of Otta or Puy Courny, in 
fact they belong to the lower Miocene or the upper Eocene. M. Mor- 
tillet examines carefully the question of natural cleavage of flint, and 
decides that those of Thenay aftbrd unmistakable evidences of anthro- 
popithecan workmanship. 

In reply to M. Mortillet several archaeologists have taken the view 
*,hat the so-called crackled and retouched flints of Thenay are not the 
products of huuKin workmanship at all. On the other hand, i\I. de 
Quatrefages, iulmitting for argument sake the existence of wrought 
flints from the Tertiary, combats de Mortillet's theory of anthropopi- 
thecus, alleging that man could have lived in that period. "It may 
be true," says de Quatrefages, " that during the Tertiary and since 
mammalian fauna may have been renewed again and again, and that 
not one spexaes belonging to that time survives, but the discoveries 



,920 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

made in l!ic Quaternary gravels of Nerbaddali and Quadavery lead us 
to suppose even this assertion exaggerated. Tlie law governing niaiu- 
nialian existence does not apply to man. Independent ofliis animal 
nature man possesses an intelligence which enables Iiim to contend t-uc- 
cessl'ully with nature, even when he is in the lowest condition of social 
and intellectual development. If man lived in the Tertiary he was cer- 
tainly as able to defend himself against the deleterious influences re- 
sulting from geological changes as he is to-day, against the extremes 
of heat and cold." It also occurs to us that the pithecan ancestors of 
man had progressed further in the faculty of invention tlian have any 
modern apes. In other words, if Tertiary apes utilized fire and cliioped 
flints, modern apes should also retain these arts. 

In the Proceedings of the United States National Museum will be 
found a detailed description of the Chaclacayo trephined skull from a 
cemetery near Lima, Peru, which is the most remarkable case of i)ost- 
mortem trephining reported. Eight distinct furrows were cut in order 
lo remove the section, which is nearly 2J inches in diameter. 

BIOLOGY. 

Professor Cope, in his discussion of the origin of man and the other 
vertebrates, comes to the following conclusion : "An especial ]ioint of 
interest in the phylogeuy of man has been brought to light in our IsTorth 
American beds. There are some things in the structure of man and 
his nearest relatives, the chimpanzee, orang, «&c., that lead us to sus- 
pect that they have not descended directly from true monkeys, but that 
they have come from some extinct tribe of lemurs." 

In reply to an editorial in Science (vi, 81) asserting that man is of 
those forms whose ancestry is unknown. Dr. Theodore Gill says, " I 
cannot but think that the data at hand are already abundant for an 
answer, and that we can allocate his systematic relationshi])s as well 
as those of any other animal. It is difficult for me to understand how 
any one acquainted with the data could reach a conclusion other than 
that man is the derivative of a form very much like the chimpanzee 
and gorilla, and that, could his remote ancestors be seen, they w^ould 
l)e i)Iaced not only in the same family, but in the same group with the 
African apes." 

The pelvi<; index is the ratio of the transverse to the conjugate diam- 
eter of tln» x^elvis brim expressed by integers. Dolichopellic signifies; 
a pelvis, the conjugate diameter of Avhich is longer than the transverse^ 
or closely approaching it, above 95 ; platypellic, a pelvis in which the 
transverse diameter greatly exceeds the conjugate, below !>0; mesati- 
l)ellic, a ])elvis in which the transverse diameter is not greatly in excess 
of the conjugate, between 90 and 95. To the thorough discussion of 
this characteristic Dr. Heniiig devotes a monograph published in Archiv 
fiir Anthropoloyie. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. ^21 

Dr. Pbilipi)e Key has made an iuvestigation ui)ou the weight of the 
• cerebral lobes, and some of his conclusions will be of interest. Of the 
347 subjects examined, 231 were men. IIG women. While the total 
weight of the right hemisphere ])redominates over that of the left, the 
left frontal is heavier than th(^ right. The right occipital is slightly 
heavier than the left. The difference of weight for the entire anterior 
region between men and women amounts to G9.(J5 grains, which con- 
stitutes a large proportion of the general cerebral excess of weight in 
the male sex. 

Dr. Lissauer has added the sagittal suture to the other portions of 
the human cranium which have been used in obtaining anthropological 
measures. The sagittal curve or Xorma sagittalis is obtained by saw- 
ing tiie skull through the median line and observing the border of the 
<'ut within the sagittal suture. Dr. Lissauer, by means of a special 
crauiograph, obtains the profile of the sagittal line on the anteropos- 
terior median plane of the skull. Certain points are fixed on the per- 
iphery, and by comparing them among themselves and in relation to 
a central point located at the intersection of the vomer with the lower 
face of the sphenoid, he obtains angles by means of which he compares 
the relative value of the diflerent segments, and also certain of these 
lines with the horhontal, extending from the point named to the exter- 
nal occipital protuberance. A new vocabulary is introduced which will 
add much to the complexity of craniometry. The ethnic results of the 
paper may be thus set forth : 

Micrencranes 5 ^^^^^^f"- 

^ fypiciu negroes. 

' Forehead, flat Australians. 

bulged \ ?l«^o «»iil^'i-en. 

^ I Kaffirs. 

Occiput, flat Mongols (part). 

Loxodontes^; Mesencranes -^ bulged Eskimos. 

Parietals bulged \ Malays. 

'' } Melanesuins (i)art). 

Front of palatal straight Americans. 

, Nose elevated Mediterraneans. 

f Negro children. 

I Hottentot woman. 

, Macrencranes ^ Malays. 

I Papuans. 

(^Mongols. 

SLoxoprosopes, cerebral sector, small Americans. 
r\ 4.1 ■ a i< 1 ^ Mongols. 
Orthioprosopes " " large < iif iJl 
^ ^ ° \ Mediterraneans. 

Dr. Herman Welcker, in Halle, has made a study of the capacity of 
the cranium in connection with the three diameters. He first examines 
carefully the methods employed for the curvature of the skull by 
difterent processes and materials. The tables appended to the investi- 
gation exhibit enormous variations in the results, as a few examples 
will show. The following table gives the people, the author, the num- 
ber of crania examined, and the average contents in cubic centimeters. 



822 

This study of Dr. 
pologists : 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Welcker's is worthv the attention of all anthio- 



People. 



1. Germans 



2. Hiudus 



(). French 



7. Italians 



9. Russians 



18. Turks 



20. Chinese 



28. Dyaks , 



29. Polynesians 



Author. 



Welcker 

Morton 

Weisbach 

Lucae 

Davis 

Welcker 

Morton 

Flower 

S\vavin<]f 

Quatrefages ... 

Davis 

Schaaffhausen . 

Roth 

Hndler 

Welcker 

Davis 

Broca 

Welcker 

Flower 

Schaafi'lunisen . 

Weisbach 

Davis 

Schmidt 

Schaaffhausen . 

Hndler 

Welcker 

Landzert 

Davis 

Schaaffhausen . 

Weisbach 

Welcker 

Hudler 

Davis 

Broesike 

Morton 

Zuckerkandl . . 
Schaaffhausen 

Flower 

Schmidt 

Ecker 

Swaving 

Welcker 

Lucae 

Quatrefages ... 

Broca 

Broesike 

Davis 

Schaaffhausen . 

Swaviug 

Welcker 

Davis 

Schmidt 

Quatrefages ... 

Broesike 

Zuckerhaiidl . . 

Morton 

Schaafthauseu . 

Ecker 

Welcker 



Number 

of crania 

examined. 



30 



68 

12 

8 

12 



22 

11 

14 

26 

13 

9 

56 

13 

22 

124 

6 

76 

11 

39 

7 

7 

30 

5 

14 

40 

10 

5 

37 

8 

5 

3 

3 



Average 
contents in 
cubic cen- 
timeters. 



11 
31 
16 
13 

4 
26 
14 

6 
24 
22 
10 
17 

5 

8 

9 
11 

7 
11 

8 
13 



15 

10 
18 



1,4(0 
1,475 
l,r!24 

1 r,'i'> 
1, ...1^ 

i,(i(;4 

l,ti75 

i,:'.]i 
i,:n3 
1.31:; 
i.4i;o 

1, 425 
1,430 
l,4.'-3 
1,475 
1, 492 
1,.^;03 
1, 558 
1,443 
] , 475 
1,4S6 
1,507 
I,. 5(^6 
1 , 390 
1,395 
I, 103 
1, 416 
1,471 
1,596 
1,387 
1, 462 
1 , 467 
1,474 
1,526 
1 , .547 
1,344 
! , 40i 
J , 407 
1,424 
1,451 
1,452 
1,452 
1,457 
1,482 
1,511 
1,518 
1,5!8 
1,.556 

i,3:.9 

1,372 

1,404 

1, 435 ' 

1,472 

1,530 

1,339 

1,3,58 

1, 360 

1,3S7 

1,415 

1.443 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



823 



People. 



Author. 



29. Polynesians — Cont'd, 



30. Australians 



31. Papuans. 



32. Negroes 



Broca 

Flower 

Davis 

Qnati'efages ... 

Ecker 

Lucae .. 

Morton 

Hudler 

Schaalf hauseu. 

Welcker 

Flower 

Davis 

Broca 

Zuckerkandl .. 

Ecker 

Schaaff hausen. 

Broesike 

Welcker 

Meyer 

Regalia 

Davis 

Schaalf hausen. 
Ecker 



35. Eskimo. 



Swaving 

Welcker 

Zuckerkandl .. 

Lucae 

Hudler 

Schmidt 

Morton 

Flower 

Roth 

Kupffer 

Quatrefages ... 

Broca 

Davis 

Schaaft' hausen . 

Morton 

Welcker 

Quatrefages ... 

Broca 

Davis 

Flower 



Number 

of crania 

examined, 



54 

26 

100 

39 

7 

4 



I 

19 

5 

32 

12 

18 

3 

3 

8 

3 

20 

54 

4H 

3 

27 

53 

14 

19 

4 

5 

8 

21 



26 
3 
3 

85 
85 
12 



11 
13 
12 
13 

17 



Average 
coutcnts in 
cubic ceu- 

timetert). 



1,460 

1,4G9 

1,5:^5 

1,549 

1 , 'Zi)':^. 

\,-Z\7 

1,2-J9 

1,235 

1,247 

1, 294 

1,298 

1,319 

1,347 

1,377 

1,215 

1,274 

1,353 

1, 373 

1,398 

1, 427 

1, 495 

],288 

1,295 

1, 309 

1,328 

1. 339 

1,344 

1,352 

1,356 

1,360 

1,388 

1,405 

1,405 

1,410 

1,430 

1,443 

1. 391 

1,410 

1,468 

1,522 

1,539 

1,542 

1,546 



The next point which Mr. Welcker considers is the so-called moduhis 
(found by adding the three diameters of the skull) and its relation to 
the cubature, in dolicocephalic, mesocephalic, brachycephalic crania. 

Chapter III discusses the cubature of the skull as well as its height 
and width among different peoples. Six pages are devoted to a table 
of ' these three measures upon different races. The table of cubatures, 
on ^'>ages 106, 107, represents the different races arranged in the order 
of tlit.^ contents of the skull. 

Chap ter IV is devoted to the cephalic index. Table lY, page 120, like 
the one ji i^t mentioned on page 100, exhibits in a graphic manner the 
various lat *^^ according to the cephalic index. This table is introduced 
in order to e^'^''^^^^^ ^^^ author's method of graphic illustration. 



824 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



5^ 

* 
5 



Si 





o c- 


o 


o 


r^ 


O 


o 


o o 












CM 


« 


■^ 


1.-5 O 


I - X /— 






fl 












c^ 












ct 






























C'l 
















^- 






03 


















O 


















-4-> 




































a 


















a 


















w 


















n 


















a 












a 






« 










.5 






<P 
















-M 










'a 






















a 
















o 










>, 






w 


























00 


t^ t^ CO 




c3 




















»-< 




















P. 














. . 






o 




















4) 














'C ® 






f=< 












ce'o 






Cj 










to 


^^ %. 






■5 
a 










^ 


p« 1 




M 










■J? 






,a 










O 




S 










o 


=■-!?! 




(4 










r3 

a 

LO 


"2^ -2 

S^O 00 




03 
















<U 
















> 
















.2 
































S 
















o5 












. 




^ 
















» 
















^ 
















bi 
















o 
















r^ 
















n 
















cd 
















« 
















a 
















08 
















s 
































S 
















M 
















5 
































'3 
















o 
















n 
















B 
















£ 
































































o 
















r*^ 
















i 












V 






o o 


o 


o 


—^ 


O O 


000 


^ 




s ^ 


CI 


C-; 


T 


l^t 


■^ 


I- ^ 


CT, 









09 



tt'r-' 






C'l C0 1-« in 

<M iM CO CO 
CO CO CO CO 





■^i-g • 


— 03 ' 


f>W : 


w : 


> -0 


wK^ 



^ -^ C5 O 
(C O CO I- 

CO cc CO r:i 



a 
<s 
W 

a 

e3 



a a: 

H 



." '^ '-f- o a ;i 

O m LC^ O) 



03 

o 2 rt o 
5 MS — 

o Tj- re m 



a 

a 

o 

I 

S 

a 



ANTHEOPOLOGY. 



825 



:5 



_C5 



6C 



I 


o 


o o 




c> 


<=) 


O" 


/-> 


o 


o 


o 


o 


1 


o 


c 




09 


^ 


•o 


o 


t- 


00 Oi o 




■<* 






















ift 




VH 






















1— « 




f-f 














, , 






!0 


















»o 






1- 




■T 














"^ 






■^ 


















t-H 






fi 


(0 






























« 






























*-• 




























































a 






























« 






1 
























w 






























1 






























C3 






























00 


1 


























a 
















CD 






s 


a 


eS 














fr 

9 






? 


t» 


3 


















^ 

^ 




o 














^ 








-* 














o 






lA 


















?^ 






fpl 


^ 
























- 


P. 


























o 


























o 


























p< 


























1 g 




















































^ 


























a 


























M 


























h 


























O 


























ja 


























«j 


























h 


























1 CS 




























- 


























t^ 
















ft 


(M 


ifixaa 




o 
















to 


t- 


00 00 00 




■^' 
















TJ" 


-* 


^ ■^TJ' 






























r- 


^ 


1- 




73 


« 


















oc 
















O 
> 


a 
















a 














c; 
















« 














































*5 
















"m 








(C 




■Jj 


(T 
















m 








a 






















3 






m =* 






K 
















M 






2*2 ^ 

a a^ 




_o 
















-4-* 

cS 


4 


) 


.S 2 « 

»3^ 


1 


~; 
















o 


(£ 




jcMm 




•X. 
















cc 


a 




tO<0(0 














t 






m 










S'i 








CI 




O 00 O t— CJ 




■* 30 


















ir: .o -^ o I- 




03 0> 


•1. 


-^ r; 








'*• 




-:«' -O" tC ■* -^ 




•W-* 


iA 
















f— i-H »-« rH r- 




t-H T-l 


a 




















w 








r^ 




















a 












o 


M* 


















































1) 












5 


0} 


















a 












a 

C3 


9 

n 

3 0- 
















GC 








121 




aP 








a 








c 


°l 


(T 




p 
O 




3 


■u 








c 






"a 


4 
c 


7.^ 
II 


- C 

c 




a^ 
o c. 




"o 


<lPi 








> 






M^ 


Mfc 


X 


" 


<i&H 


O 


§2 








o- 






M C 


ot- 






C-100 




■^ 


r^ Oi^ 


ri 


r 


O O 


_ 


-Mr- 


ts 


CO 


intra ■>»• 






ri CI 


'M 


C-: 




Tt 


-^ 


£ 


«o;o 


t' 


r~ au 00 Ci 






-J. -t -^ -"-f -Tt 


"^ 


-^ 


Tj 


-^ -^ 


^ 


Tj- 


■*•* •* 






.— t— » 


— • 


^- 


»— 








f-( 1— 1 


















r 
























'f 
















I 
















k 
































C 








't 


) 






a 2 














05 

a 






00 




s 








p'3 








X 






; 1 






^ 






; 


.2^ 








7" 




i 


'7 




01/ 


(T 


c 






r- 


ll 


a 






-5 




CJ 

o 


or 


c «■ 


S 


'bj 


c 


T 









c2 








^ ; ^ 




'&. 


2 

c 




73 
X 


's 


5 r 

2_a. 


1 


p 


1- 'o 




^ 


: '^ 


V 


« 


« 


" 


fe 






^ 


Q 


- =i 




N 


rrj'Jn 


h 


^ 


»^ 


OQ 


c^ 


W 


« 


■Z?-, M 




in 


t^ooo c= 




■^ 


o 


I* -^ 


^ 


o 


O O ^H 




l-H 


--CJ 




C^l -^ 






<s 


MOJ 






»^ -H tH 




c o 


o 




o 




-5 




o 


= 


o 




O O O 




§ -^ 


CM 




CO 




^ 




lA 


;5 


i- 




00 « o 




fl 




































*-1 





H 



o 

CO 

O 



5 



o 

o 
u 
OS 



M IM 

O ^ 

in> o 



3 



W M 



is 

a 
W 
in 



s 



a a 

"S.2c 
afe- 



826 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



Id 

a 



o 
o 



05 

o 









05 





O O 


o © o o o 

M c% T)> o ta 


O O O 


o 


o 


o 




o 




o e 




o 


o 


o 




o 




c 








t^ 00 a^ c? 

CO 






-" 1- 








»H 




o 


C-J 


■3 




W lO Oi 00O5^ 




(^ 


CO 


o 




C^ CO 1ft t^ t-QO 




^H 


C^l 


(M 




CO CO CO cococo 




»— ( 




r^ 




i-H i-H rH »-l f* »-l 




'■5 • 




a 




ia 


. 










t« ' 




n 




f- 












CC ■ 




o 




,o 
















^ 




•<tH 


! ^ 








if 

c5 a 




o 




® 


3 




a 
a 










i lg 




•a 

o 






CO 

1 




o 




B 
< 


jag 
"So 






" 


si: § -^^ 

pq(l, M WS<) 




Ota 


rt 


2 * 






!z; 


O 


O 






t^ 


o 


CO 




in -^ji oo o o -^ 






r-i 


s^ 










<= 




■♦•^ 


eoowaio osos t> i 






■n 




a>a> . 


i-IC^4'MCO-^ inco oo 






? 




<M«<1 


CO CO CO c^ c-5 CO CO n 


^ 








t-l ft 


1-) t— (— *r-«-^ »-lr-( _rH 


09 












^ .FH 




: a '. 


13 . 1 












a 

C3 
t3 




o 
a 




.9 ® 
: ^ 2 
:0 M 


3 

a 




^ 










B 




; m • f- oj 


1 












o 




.<^ 


• (u • o a 


1 


1 










03 




!a 


: g ; ^ o 









c 








tn - 


•? - -r o - a 


O) 




c 




,r, « 


.- I' 


" 00 ^ ^ 00 S 1 


o 

f<4 




£ 




2 o 




Sf 








.^ (- 


o 




■« 




s at 


. ^ 




c 




o ® 


£ Qj aa ci to OO o^S 




PC 




O^ 


<5^ iaui;^ ^a "A 






e 




(O in 


iMOOiOOL- l>0 lO 






*" 






1-lCO C4 r-t 












f-i W 












CM t* 












CO CO 


QD 










1— < »-t 1 


fl 
















.2 
















































oe 
















h 
















-tj 
















OC 
















B 


• 














<1 
















•O 










m 




a 










a 




d 










c3 ^ 














.^ (C 


n 










i i 


C3 


















m p. 


a. 










3 is 












-Si fl. 
o o 












(M C-J 








t- 


i5 m r^ r^ cc 00 00 o 








CO 








(M 


CO CO C^ r? CC CO CO CO 








^■ 




^ ,-, „ ,-1 ^ ^ ,-( ^ 












6 ' 
























3 










































































^ 
















03 










p^ 
















t-5 


























cS 










•^ 
















1— t 






1 




9? 


« 
o 

a 

a m _ 


2 


d. 
r 


o a 
























in -^ CO 00 rt< t> -^ o 








t> 




C^.-, rt .H 












(M (M »H in o 
(N in t^ 00 o 

ro CO CO CO -rr 














t- 


»-l F— 






oS 








































"o 




















fcO 








• 












a 




















o 




















a 
























-^ a ro » _ 












o a a a 2 












•2 i; ^ a p. 












,3 a » d o 












H p W 1-5 kJ 












CO CO •-< 00 N 












^ »H t-l 




2 "= 


o o o 


"2 <2 


o o o o 


oooooooooo 
th c^i CO T* in CO t^ 00 oi o 




S '^ 


C>* CO '«*' 


to CD 


C* 00 CT> O 










CO 


■» 




^H 








»H 




























IH 


1 



ANTHROPOLOGY 



827 



a 



► 






ci 
s 



'5' 






o 

M 

'0 

w 



o 

ID 



to 

d 
<1 



CS 

F3 






be 
a 

o 



M mo 

"T -* -»• 






W 






s = 5. c 
= o5.2 

"» 1-10 



o 



CD 






c5 



a 

'3 
o 

<!' 
r— I 

c: 



e 
^ 



^^ (M (M C^l ^J « C^ ^ 
*^ ^" ^^ '(^ "^ ^J* ^f ^' 



03 



rS <U 



.'rS 

. cS 

• s 



a 



a 



a r « — *-• 



Sir- 

r— * — , 

a « o; (» 

2 «o 2 So 

^ .« ~ w C3 



a 
'S 



C^ f Tj« ^ -T* lO O O h- 00 



o 

a 
a 






•3o 






« t^ ri - 



a 
M 
00 



828 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 
fVidth indices of the *:arious nations.— Welckku . 



as 

O 



OS 

§ ' 

re 



L. B. 



73 



74 



75 



7(i 



77 



79 



80 



81 



82 



Mediterrauean 
races. 



71.3 Abyssinians. 



71.4 Hindoos of 
Bellary. 



Mongols. 



Malays, Papu- 
ans, and Aus- 
tralians. 



70.6 Polynesians. 

71. 1 Caroline Isl- 
anders of Ulie. 



72 Now Caledon- 
ians. 



Nefrroes and 
Koi-Kois. 



73.6ModeniEgyp- 

tians. 
73.9 mean of 7 
Hindu groups. 



70.9 Maravi 

negroes 
71.1 KoiKoi .... 

71.1 Guinea ne- 
groes. 

71.8 Ashantees.. 

72.3 Mean of 7 
ne^ro groups. 

72.3 Kaffirs 



72.7 Papuans of 

My.sore. 
73.3 Australians. 



75.1 Bhils, Gols. 75.3 Ihibetans. 

Khols. 

75.4 Irish 

7G.2 Ancient Ko- 

mans. 

76.3 Singalese 

70.9 Arabs... 

77.1 Ancient Egyp- 77.1 Estans 
tian s and Greeks. 

77.2 Swedes, 77.3 77.5 Bunnans 
Spanisb. 

77.7Kabyles 



78.0 Dutch 

78.2 Guancbesand 
Ziganis. 

78.3 Hindu Sudras 
78.0 Danes and 

Norwegians, 
78.8 Scoteb. 
78.9 Englisb 

79.0 Portuguese. . . 

79.1 Zuyder Sea 
Islanders and 
Icelanders. 

79.8 Low German. 

80.0 Modern Greeks 



80.8 Gorkhas . 



81.3 Middle Ger- 
man. 

81.G Servians, 81.7 
Italians, 81.8 
Jews, Little 
Russians. 

82.0 Great Eus- 
sians. 



82.1 Polos, 82.2 
Higb German 
and French. 



79.1 Chinese . 



79.8 Tartars... 
80.2 Japanese. 



80.3 Finns . . . 
81.9 Magyars 



75.9 Mean of 
Polynesians. 



76.4 Maoris, Nn- 
kubivvi. 



77.1 Taliitians 



77.3 Oabuans and 
Fatubiwans. 

77.4 Nicobars . . . 
77.7Dyak8 



73.1 Negroes of 
IVIiddle and 
West Soudaa. 

73.5 Mozambique 
negroes. 



79.0 B.ilinese 

79.1 Aijiboineso . 



79.7 H.awaiians., 



81.3 Mean of 
Asiatic Malays. 
81.8 Sumatrans, 
Macas.sars. 



82 Bugis 

82.3 Javanese . 



82.9 Mendancese 



AmLiii aiis. 



71.7 E.skinio of 
Labi'ador. 



72.2 Greeiibind- 
ers. 



74.3 Puiis, Quav- 
apavis (Brazil- 
ians). 

74.8 mean of t'le, 
Brazilian In- 
dians. 



77.0 Botocndos. 



78.3 Mexican In- 
dians. 

78.9 Indians of 
the U. S. 



80.1 AruTicanians 
and Patagon- 
lans. 

80.1 Undefoinied 
Peruvians. 



81.7 NW. Amer- 
icans. 

81.7 Undeformed 
Caribs. 



i 



I 



ANTHftOrOLOGY. 

Width indices of the various nations — Continuccl. 



829 





L. B. 


Mediteiianean 
races. 


Mongols. 


Slalays, Papu- 
ans, and Aus- 
tralian.o. 


NeKrocs and 
Koi-Kois. 


Americans. 




133 

84 

85 

80 
87 
S8 

89 
aud 
over 

■i 

■| 

11 


SS.ORuthenians... 
83.3 Boumanians.. 


Sa.OKalmucks, 

Basques. 
83.3 Turks.... 
83.t) Tnnguse . 


84.6 Suudauese.. 

85.7 Maduresp . . 






'•; 


84.1 Slovaks 




"a 


84.2 Czechs 


84.3 Siamese . . 




f< 


85.1 Croats 


SS.lBarjats... 
85.5 Lapps .... 




.— 






cz 
W 


88.3 From the Kur- 
g:iusnpar Soiep- 
tii. 


















1 




96.7 Ancient. Pe- 
ruvians. 

102.0 Deloriued 
North Ameri- 
cans. 



830 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



= 1 



■^ a 






-^3 



op 






2; o 



O If; 



p. 

C 






« 



; 


^ 


, 


ft 


[ 


o 


c — 


g 


'rt'. 


o 


J3CJ 




ft^- 


"3 



O -3 



c ■ 



7: CJ 

-Is- 
J 



OJ 



ft 
o 



Q 



o 




t- 


— 


O 


- 



1 ~ 



Hi 

ft 



!^1 



ft 



-a 



e-1 









■J 

1-3 



,=3 
ft 



ft 



4: 

u 

o 



o 

5 
ft 



ft 



tt 



t:; 





1 

O 






Cj 






— 






J 




y 


i 


1 

1 





ft 






C3 in 



ft 



s 



o 
-a 






®-i 


■g 


J3 w 




— tp 




£5 


i 


i-( 




1^ 


-1 




i 


,«« 


> 


^ 



I 



h 

n 






w 



^ 





H 

a 

08 

1 
P 

I'" 



H 



o 
■3 



13 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 881 

Some experiuuMits highly interostins; to physiologists ura reportod 
ill i\Ir, Friiiu'is Galtou's vice-presidential address before the British 
Association. By using a very large number of family records some 
resnlts regarding stature are made to appear. As with seeds so with 
men, "oflf'si^riug did not tend to resemble their parent seed in size, but 
to be always more mediocre than they — to be smaller than the parents, 
if the parents were large ; to be larger than the parents, if the parents 
were small." An analysis of the family records gives the numerical 
value of the regression towards mediocrity as from one to two thirds 
with unexpected coherence and precision. 

The most remarkable production of the j'ear in the field of biological 
anthropology is Dr. Paul Topinard-s Elements d'Anthropologie Gene- 
rale, an octavo of 1157 pages, 229 figures, and 5 plates. The volume 
covers the history of anthropology, the discussion of the general i)rin- 
ciples, and a minute account of anthropological methods regarding the 
hair, color of eyes and hair and skin, height, the encephalon, the cra- 
nium, and closing with anthropometry upon the living. Only a few of 
Dr. Topinard's results can be appended. Taking the section of the hair 
or crinal index as a primary classific concept, he gives the table below : 

1. Hair straight, section more or less round, scarce on the face and body: Yellou 
and red races of Asia and America. 

2. Hair nappy or very spiral, section more or less elliptical : Negro races of Africa 
and Oceanica. 

:?. Hair more or less curled or wavy, oval in section : Eurhpean races, Anstraliaus, 
Nubians, &c. 

The next concept is the nasal index, to which Dr. Topinard attaches 
great importance. Adding this to the color of the skin we have : 

Leptorrhines. White ^ Hyperleptorrhine. Anglo-Scandinavian (Kyniri). 

(living.) races. -^ Leptorrhiue (non aquiline). Celts. 

09 and less. [Leucoid.] ( Leptorrhiue (aquiline). Semites. 

Mesorrhines. Yellow C Flat ^ Leptorrhiue (cranial). Eskimo. 
(living.) races. < noses. ^ Mesorrhine (cranial). Yellow races of Asia. 

70 to Hi '4. [Xanthoid.]( Salient nose. Redskins. 

Plafyrrhines. Black ( Well formed nose. African negroes. 

(living.) races. < xr „ -^.i i ^ Mtilanosians and Aiis- 

s/aud above. [Mclanoid]. ( ^^«« ««^^««' ^'^^ enormous ahe. j tralians. 

The nasal index on the living is the ratio between the length oi the 
nose from the root to the outer insertion of the septum and the width 
outside of the ala3. 

The subject of color is further discussed in its relation to the eyes and 
hair and the races grouj)ed as below : 

Eyes, color : Hair, color : 

1. Black and blackish, different, .shades. 1. Absolutely black. 

2. Green. 2. Dark brown. 

:'.. Hazel. 3. Clear chestnut. 

•1. Bliu! and clear of difi'orcnt sliii les, hi- 4. {a) Blonde, yellowish, 
eluding clear gray. (h) Blonde, reddish. 

(c) Blonde, ashy. 
(rf) Blondt?, clear. 
5. Red. 



Jilack. 



8.'»2 SClENtlFi(; RECORD FOR IS^o. 

Skin, color: (i. Yellowish white. 

1. Absolutely black. 7. Brown white. 

2. Brown, shaded with red. 8. (a) Rosy white. 
:\. Brown, yellowish or olive. (6) Florid white. 
4. Reddish. 9. Freckled. 

f). Yellow or olive. 

By color : f Blondes, Auglo-Scandinavi£,us or Kyniri. 

White i Chestnut, Celto-Slavs. 
/T -^v ] Brunette, Mediterraneans and Semites, 

i^i^eucoiu;. [^ ge,-njij,ji (nuldy), one of the two Finnish types. 

f Yellow proper, races of Asia and Eskimo. 

I ( Red pro])er, Redskins and Caribs. 

Yellow. ■{ Red. -^ Yellowish red, Gnaranis, Botocndos. 

I ( Olive red, Peruvians. 

t Blackish, Charuas (IJrnsnay), Am-t. Cal., So. Dravidas. 

r Yellowish, Hottentots. 

J Reddish, African Negroes. 

] Blacks proper, Australians, Blacks of India, Tasmanians, and Papuans, 

l^ Negritos, Al'rican Negroes. 

The cephalic index is the ratio of the greatest skiiU width divided by 
the greatest skull length. As to the boundaries of the terms applied 
to these ratios, most unhap[)i]y the doctors disagree. Dr. Topinard's 
table is as follows : 

Doliehocepludy (74 per cent, and less) : , 

•04 and less. IJltradolichocephaly 
•05— -(59. Dolichocephaly. 
•70— -749. Siibdolichocephaly. 
MesaMcephaly{75 to 79.9 per cent.): 

•75, -76. Sub . 

•77 Medium. 
•78, -799. Super. . 
BrachycepJialy (SO i)er cent, and over) : 

•80 to -84. Sub . 

•85 to -89. Super. 
•90 and over. Ultra. 

Tiie application of the cranial index to the divisions of the human 
si)ecies, i)re\ionsly considered, results as follows: 



1. White, races. 



II. Yellow i;i( cs. 



f Dolicho ^ Anglo-Scandinavians, Franks, and Germans, 
j '( Finns of one type, Mediterraneans. 

\ Mdsati. Semites, Berbers, Egyptians. 
I Briichy. Celto-Slavs, Ligurians, Lapps. 

f ( Eskimo, ancient Tehuelches, soInl^ Americans, Santa 

I Dolicho. < ]3arbara Micronesia here and there; iu Asia here 
) ( and there, Melanesians. 

] Mesati. Polynesians. 
I nj.-ichv ^ American type, Alaska, Siberia, Mongols, Mantclioos, 
I ^ ■ . • ) Indo-Chinese, Dravidiaus, Thibetaus, Malay. 
' D61icho 5 Australians, Veddahs and congeners, typical ^lela- 
Tii Ti,,.i ...... J "( nesians, African Negroes. Bushmen. 

I Mesati. lasuianians. Maudmgos, llaoussas. 
i.Br^chy. Negritos of jNIalaysia and the Audamana. 

It will readily be seen that the cranial index in its three branches 
a])plies to each of the three divisions of humanity [subspecies?], the 
significance of which seems to b(> that the tendency to pass from one to 



ANTMKOrOLOGY. 



833 



the other belongs to the whole species rather than to any of its three 
divisions. 

In this rSsume we shall have space to mention but one other charac- 
teristic, stature : 

Nomenclature of stature. 



Statue, 


Men. 


Women. 


Tall 


1™, 70 and above... 
1™, (j[) to 1"', 65 ... . 

!>", 65-1'", 60 

1"", 60— below 


1°*, 58 and above. 


Ultraiuedium 


Im^ 57 — Ini^ 53 


Infraiuedium 


Jin 52 — Jm 40. 


Short 


im 39 — below. 







Combining this mark with all previousl3^ mentioned, Dr. Topinard 
groups the races studied as follows : 



Vivo nasal index. 


Hair. 


Cranial index. 


Skin color. 


Height. 


Races. 






D o 1 i c h () c - 


Blonde 


Tall 


Anglo-Scandinavi. 










aus. 






phalic. ] 


Euddy .. 


...do .... 


Finji.s, type I. 
Mediterraneans. 


White subspe- ^ 
cieg, Lepto. > 


Wavy (oval sec- 
tion). 


Brown 


Short (rela- 
tive). 


rrhine. ) 


Mesaticephalic . 


...do 


...do 


Semites, Egyp- 












tians. 






B r a c h y c e - i 
phalic. 


...do 


Short 


Lapps, Liirnrians. 






Chestnut . 


Medium 


CeltoSlavs. 




f 


Dolichoce-j 
phalic. { 


Yellow ... 


Short 


Eskimo. 






Reddish . . 


Tall 


Tehuelches. 




Coarse, straight 


Mesaticephalic 


...do 


.. do 


Polynesians. 


Yellow subspe- 


round section, i 


(.76.) 








cies, Meso-s 


long on the <, 


B r a oh yc e- 
phalic. j 


...do 


...do 


Redskins. 


rrliiuo. 


head, body 
glabrous. 


Yellow . . . 

Yellowish. 


Short 

Medium 


Yellow rare I'of 

Asia). 
Guaranis. 




. 


I 


Olivish . .. 


Short 


Peruvians. 




Bushy (oval sec- 
tion). 


Dolichocephalic. 


Black 


Tall 


Australians. 






' 


Yellowish. 


Verv short.. 


Bushmen (steato- 


Dl.ack snb'pe- 










pvgiaus.) 
Melanesians (eye- 
brow 8 a 1 i e u t. 


ciea, Platy- ■ 
rrhine. 




D 1 i c h o c e - 

phalic. 


Black 


Tall 




Woolly (ellipti- 






nose deep at the 
root). 
African negroes. 




cal section). 




Black 


..do 






Mesaticephalic . 


...do...... 


Medium 


'J'asmauians. 




^ 


Brachycepbalic. 


...do 


Shoit 


Kegritos. 



COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

Prof. Alexander Bain read a paper at the Aberdeen mf-eting of the 
British Association on the scope of anthropology and its relation to the 
science of mind. The whole burden of the essay was to insist upon 
amenability to measurements as the password of any set of human phe- 
nomena to the section of anthropology. This is as it should be. Mr. 
Bain further pointed out a great variety of mind actions which were 
already under the instrument of precision, and others which ought to 
be and could be. "Psychology has now a very large area of neutral 
information. It possesses materials gathered by the same methods of 
rigorous observation and induction that are followed in the other sci- 
ences. If these researches are persisted in they will go still further 



H. Mis. 15- 



-53 



834 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

into the heart of ijsychology as a science; and the true course will be to 
welcome all the new experiments for determining mental facts with pre- 
cision, and to treat psychology as an acknowledged member of the sec- 
tion. To this subdivision will then be brought the researches into the 
brain, and nerves that deal with mental function; the experiments on 
the senses having reference to our sensations; the whole of the present 
mathematics of man, bodily and mental; the still more advanced in- 
quiries relating to our intelligence; and the nature of emotion as illus- 
trated by expression." 

Instinct. — Mr. Romanes, in an address delivered before the Royal In- 
stitution in 1884, and published iji their i)roceedings for 1885, thus de- 
fines instinct : " It is the name given to those faculties of mind which 
are concerned in consciously adaptive action prior to individual exper- 
ience without necessary knowledge of the relation between the means 
employed and the ends attained, but similarly performed under similar 
and frequently recurring circumstances by all individuals of the same 
species." The origin of instinct, according to the same author, is two- 
fold : it is produced by lapsing intelligence or by natural selection. 
The former is thus explained : " Just as in the lifetime of an individual, 
adjustive actions, which were originally intelligent, may by frequent 
repetition become automatic, so in the lifetime of the species, actions 
originally intelligent may by frequent lepetition and heredity so write 
their effects on the nervous system that the latter is prepared, even 
before individual experience, to perform adjustive actions mechanically, 
which in previous generations were performed intelligently." For the 
following reasons many instincts are referred to natural selection solely: 
1. Considering the great importance of instincts to species they must 
be in large part subject to natural selection. 2. Many instinctive 
actions are performed by animals too low in the scale to admit of our 
supposing that the adjustments which are now isstuitive can ever have 
been intelligent. 3. Among higher animals intuitive actions are per- 
formed at an age before intelligence, or the power of learning by 
individual experience, has begun to assert itself. 4. Many instincts, 
like incubation, are of a kind which could never have arisen by intelli- 
gent observations." Finally, these two causes have cooperated in the 
formation of instincts. 

The distance between intellection and volition on the one hand and 
the organic processes associated with them seem to be narrowing year 
by year. Dr. Horsely, in a lecture before the Royal Institution of Great 
Britain on the motor centers of the brain and the mechanism of the 
will, omitting the discussion of the existence of the freedom of the will 
and the sources of our consciousness of voluntary power, arrives at the 
following conclusions : 

As a rule, both cerebral hemispheres are engaged at once in receiving 
and considering one idea. Under no circumstances can two ideas cither 
be considered or acted upon attentively at the same moment. Therefore 



ANTHROPOLOGY. ^?,f) 

tlie brain is a single instrument. Our idea of our being single individ- 
uals is due entirely to this single action of the brain. 

The lecturer also i)ointed out the specific jiortions of the brain to 
which i>h.vsiologists have been able to relegate certain activities. 

Prof. Balfour Stewart delivered the annual address before the Society 
of Psychical Research, in London, August 24, on the occasion of the 
third anniversary. The exact position of the society is best indicated 
by the language of Professor Stewart: "To my mind the evidence al- 
ready adduced is such as to render highly probable the occasional 
presence amongst us of something which we may call thought-transfer- 
ence, or, more generally, telepathy ; but it is surely our duty as a society 
to accumulate evidence until the existence of such a power cannot be 
controverted. We have not been remiss in this respect, and it will be 
found from the pages of our proceedings that the main strength of our 
society has been given to prove the existence of telepathy, in the belief 
that such a fact, well established, will not only possess an independent 
value of its own, but will serve as an admirable basis for further oper- 
ations." 

In a paper on comparative physiology and i)sychology, published in 
the American jS'aturalist, Dr. Clevenger takes the ground that the 
science of psychology is based upon comparative microscopic anatomy 
and a ijhysiology into which molecular physics shall enter more in the 
future. Not only are the laws which bind the social organism similar 
to and derived from those which govern the units of which it is com- 
posed, but the protoplasmic units are governed by the same processes 
down to chemical affinities. , 

Mr. Charles Morris contributes to the same journal a series of articles 
upon mind and matter, in which the limits of the boundaries of con- 
sciousness and unconsciousness are discussed. 

ETHNOLOGY, 

The classification of mankind by blood is ethnology. Professor 
Flower's presidential address before the Anthroiiological Institute on 
January 27 was devoted to this subject. The majority of anthropolo- 
gists at the close of 1885 leaned towards the theory of the unity of our 
species. Humanity, according to this view, is included in a single genus 
(Homo), which contains but one species (Sapiens). Here the consensus 
ends, but there still remains a tolerably fixed belief that this species 
contains three subspecies, main varieties or something of that kind. 
" After a perfectly independent study of the subject," says Professor 
riowor, '• extending over many years, I cannot resist the conclusion, so 
often arrived at by various anthropologists, and so often abandoned for 
some more complex system, that the primitive man, Mhatever he may 
have been, has in the course of ages divaricated into three extreme 
types, represented by the Caucasian of Europe, the Mongolian of Asia, 



836 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1888. 



aud the Ethiopian of Africa, and that all existing individuals of the 
species can be arranged around these types or somewhere or other be- 
tween them." 
The Ethiopian or Negroid race, may be divided as follows : 

A. Africans or typical iS^egroes. 

B. Hottentots and Bushmen. 

G. Oceanic negroes or Melanesians. 
B. Negritos. 
The Mongolian type: 

A. Eskimo. 

B. Typical Mongolian races of Asia. 
a The Malay. 

B. Brown Polynesians. 
B. American Indians. " 

The Caucasian or white division includes : 

A. Xanthochroi. 

B. Melanochroi. 

The Dravidians of India, The Veddahs of Ceylon, and probably the 
Aiuos of Japan and the Maoutze of China belong to this race, which 
may have contributed something to the mixed character of some tribes 
of ludo-China and the Polynesian Islands, and given at least the 
characters of the hair to the otherwise Negroid inhabitants of Aus- 
tralia. 

Modern Jews are thus tabulated by Mr. Joseph Jacobs : 



.4. Jews by religion ami birth: 

Ashkenazim 

Sepbardum 

Samaritans 

/>'. Jews by religion, not birth 

Falashas 

Karaites 

Daggatoum 

Beui Israel 

Cochin 

Jews by birth, not religion. 

Chnetar or Anussim 

Mainlines 

G'did al Islam 



C. 



Cotintry. 



Teutonia, Slavonia 

Romance, Levant, Africa. 
Nablns 



Abyssinia 
Crimea . . . 
Sahara . . . 
Bombay .. 
Cochin ... 



Balearic . . . 
Salonichi.. 
Khorassan . 



Nnmber. 



6, 500, 000 
4-25, 000 

ir.o 

(75,000) 

50, 000 

(3, 000 

10,000 

6, 500 

1,600 

(12,000) 
(i, 000 
4,000 
2,000 



Per 
cent. 



92-8 
6-1 



l-l 



0-2 



The recent troubles in Bulgaria have evoked a number of vohnnes 
t reating upon the ethnology of the peoples more or less intimately en- 
gaged in the controversy. The works of Lewis Leger, Dr. Kanitz, and 
Leon Brunei de Eosny may be consulted with profit. 

Professor Packard brings together in two articles, published in the 
American Naturalist, a great deal of interesting information respect- 
ing the former southward range of the Eskimo in Labrador. Dr. Franz 
Boas has in several communications made us well acquainted with his 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 8.') 7 

residence among the Eskimos of Baffinland. Mr. Lucien Turner will 
soon publish an exhaustive monograph upon the Eskimo and Indian 
populations of Ungava, a region about which little has hitherto been 
kno\VTi. Add to these Schwatka's travels, Lieutenant Ray's report on 
Point Barrow, Lieutenant Stoney's brief report on the Kowak, -Mur- 
doch's papers on arts at Point Barrow, Dr. Ball's address on the tribes 
of Alaska, and we shall hav^e for this year a tolerably comprehensive 
review of the Eskimo area. 

The following is Dr. Dall's outline of the tribes as at present recog- 
nized : 

Orarians. 

INNUIT STOCK. 

Estimated population. 

Northwestern Innuit: 

Kopag-mut, 1877 

Kang-malig'mut, 1877 } 

Nfiwidc-miit, 1877 t n i /wj > 

Nuwatog-mut, 1877 j ' 

Kii-rig'mut, 1877 j 

Asiatic Innuit: 

Yuit 

Island Innuit: 

Imah-kli-mut 

1 ng-uh-kli-mut 40 ? 

Shi-wo-kiig-miit l.jU? 

Western Innuit: 

Kaviag'-mut, 1877 

Mah'-le-mut, 1877 

Un-alig'-mut, 1877 

Skog'-mut, 1877 



Mag'emut 



Kai a-lig-mut j> I4,r>()() 

Kuskwog'-miit 

Nushagag'-miit, 1877 

Oglemiit 

Kaniag'-mut 

Chii-gach'igmut \ 

Aleutians: 

Unungiin, 1877 2,200 ;' 

Indians. 

TINNEH OR ATHABASCAN STOCK. 

Western Tinneh: 

Kai'-yfdi-kho-ta'na, 1877 ) 

Ko-yiV-kiikho ta'-ua, 1877 v. 2,000? 

Tln'-a-kho ta'-na, 1877 \ 



S38 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885 , . 

Kutchiu tribes: 

Ten'-an-kut-chin', 1877 700? 

Tenuuth'-kut-chin', 1877 Extinct. 

Tat-sah'-kiit-chiu', 1877 Extinct. 

Kut-chakut-chin', 1877 

Nab sit' -kut-chin, 1877 

VuDta'-kfit-chin', 1877 

Hai-an-kut-chin (?), 1877 

Eastern Tinneh : 

K'uai'-a-kbo-tana 614 

Ah-tena', 1877 250 

Nehaunees: 

Abba-to-tenah, 1877 

Acheto-tinneh, 1877 . . 

Khiju-um-ah' 

Cftrriers : 

" Takulli" 

T'silkotinneh 

Tlinket or Kalashian stock: 

Chilkaht-kwan 1,314 

Yak-u-tat', 1877 500? 

Sit-ka-kwan, 1877 7 

Stakhin-kwan, 1877 } 4,949 

Skut-kwan (?) Dawson, 1844 j 

Haida stock: 

Haida 788 

Tsimp-si-an' stock: 

Tsimpi-si-an' 

Ethnography of Guatemala. — Dr. Otto Stoll, a resident physician in 
Guatemala, has undertaken to supplement the work of Brasseur and of 
Berendt on the comparative linguistics of the Central American States. 
There are eighteen languages now spoken in Guatemala, fourteen of 
them belonging to the Maya Qu'ich^, viz, Maya, Mopan, Choi, Qu'ekchi, 
Pakouchi, Uspanteca, Ixil. Dr. Stoll divides the Maya in four groups: 

A. Tzental. 

B. Pokonchi. 
G. Qu'ich6. 
J>. Mame. 

A. Tzental group. 

1. Choutals of Tabasco. 

Synonymy: Do not confound them with the "Ohontales" of Nica- 
ragua, who are entirely different. 

2. Tzentalis (Ocosingo). 

Synonymy ; Celdal (Cespeda). 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 839 

3. Tzotziles (San Christobal de Chiapas). 

Syuonymy: Ciuacauteca (Cespeda); Zotzlem (Brasseur) or Zotzilj 
Quelenes (Spanish historiaus). 

4. Chaiiabal (Comitau near north of Gautemala). 

5. Choles (across Guatemala from Salinas r. to Montagua r.; see p. DO). 

Synonymy: Putum (Berendt); Cholti (Moran); Colchi (Palacio); 
Ecolchi (Alouzo de Escobar). 

6. Mopanes (north of Chols in Gautemala). 

B. Poconchi group. 

1. Qu'ekchis (east, west, and north of Cobau). 

Synonymy : Caechi (Palacio) ; Caichi ( Juarros) ; Aquacateca, Mame, 
Q,u'icli6, Cakchiquel, Tzu'tuzil, Pokomam, Chorti. The Sinca, 
Pupulca, Pipil, and Carib represent other stocks. 
Dr. Stoll takes up his work in a very systematic manner, stock by 
stock, giving in each the tribes examined, together with the lit- 
erature, synonymy, chirography, history, and vocabulary. Thus: 
{(u) Aztec stock. The Pipils (Escuintla and Cuajiniquailapa). 

Synonymy: Pipil (authors); Mejicano and ^S'ahuatl (Juarros); 
Nahuatl of the Balsam coast and Izalco (Squier); Mexicanic, or 
language of the Tlaskaltekas (Scherzer). 
{h). Mije stock. The Pupulucas (Cognaco extreme southeast). 

Synonymy: Pupuluca (Juarros); Populuca (Palacio); Popoluca 
(Berendt Mss.). Papaluka (Brasseur) is the name of a Cakchi- 
chiquel village, and Scherzer's Pupuluka Katschike is pure 
Cakchiquel. 
(c.) Carib stock. The Caribs (Gulf of Honduras). 

id.) The Maya-Qu'iche stock; 250 words in 16 languages given. Egkchi 
(Habel); Cakchi (Charencey); Vater confounds Caechi with 
Qu'ich^. 

2. Pokonchis (around Tactic). 

Synonymy : Spelled Poconchi, Pocomchi, and Pakomchi. The Po- 
conchi of Gage and Scherzer is Pokomam. 

3. Pokomams (Guatemala to Jalapa and eastward). 

Synonoray : Poconchi (Gage and Scherzer); Pakome (Charenay)). 

4. Chortis (Zacapa and Chequemula and eastward). 

Synomymy: Lenguaapay (Palacio); Choi (Jimenez, by Brasseur). 

G. Quiche group. 

1. Qu'ich^s (Cunen and Eabinal, southwest to Pacific). 

Synonymy: Lengua Utatlica (authors); also Kich6. 

2. TTspantaks (S. Miguel Uspantan). 

3. Cakchiquels (Tecpan to Sta. Lucia and to Pacific). 

Synonomy: Leugua Achi (Fuentes. Palacio); Cuauhtemaltecol 
(Palacio); Kacchikil (Vater); Chacciquel (Th. Gage); Pupuluka 
Katschikel (Scherzer); also Cakchiquelchi. 



840 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 



4. Tz'utujiles (around Aitlau). 

Synonymy: Sotojil (Fuentes); also Zutnhil, Tzutohil. 

B. Mame group. 

1. Ixiles (Cotzal and vicinity). 

2. Mames (all Southwestern Guatemala). 

Syuonomy: Zakloli-pakap (Reynoso); Mem. (authors). 

3. Aguacatecas (Huehuetenango. The Sinca language (Southeast Gua- 

temala). 
Synonomy: Sinca (Juftrros); Xinca (Berendt Mss.); Xorti (Gavar- 
rette's chart). 
The Alagiiilac language (S. Cristobal) little known. 



tSchane of Ike Alaya languages. 




Huaateca. 

Maya. 

(Mop an.) 

ChoTitdl. 

Tzental. 

Tzotzil. 

CJiaHabal. 

Choi. 

Qu ekchi. 

FokancJii, 

Poliomam. 

Chorti. 

CaJtchiqueT. 

Tzxdujil. 

Qd iche. 

Uspant^ca 

Ixil. 

Mame, 

Aguacatecn. 



*>J 









u 






Dr. John Beddoe has published the result of a study extending over 
thirty years, prosecuted for the purpose of ascertaining the comj^onents 
in the present population of the British Isles. The color of the hair 
and eyes is the chief reliance in the author's observations for the analysis 
of racial distribution in the present population of Britain. 

GLOSSOLOGY. 

The lecture before the " Conference Transformiste" this year was de- 
livered by M. Abel Hovelacque on the evolution of language. Accord- 
ing to the lecture both scientific analysis and the speech of infants 
prove that language primordially springs from monosyllabic elements. 
At lirst the cries and ejaculations of children are intentional, and later 
.tjje^y in common with savages express tJtie.ir .ideas by eimotioiial tones. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 841 

From these rude begiiiniiifjs language pursues a law of evolution which 
we may study quite apart from the people who use it, in the same man- 
ner and through the same methods as the zoologist studies compara- 
tive anatomy. M. Hovelacque relegates language to the class of physi- 
ological science, and studies it in its formation, growth, maturity and 
aecay. Monosyllabism is the youth of language, agglutination charac- 
terizes its adolescence, flexion its manhood and decrepitude. 

An ingenious example of linguistic criticism is that to which Dr. 
Brinton has subjected the Taeusa grammar and dictionary of M. J. 
Parisot. After scrutinizing the structure of the grammar and exam- 
ining the errors in climatic and other allusions in the text. Dr. Brinton 
comes to the conclusion that the whole thing is a forgery. After cor- 
respondence with Lucien Adam and F. Miiller it seems more probable 
that the young author had really gotten hold of an ancient manuscript, 
but that he had so doctored it that he is ashamed to reveal the original. 
Meanwhile these savants have decided ui)on a most praiseworthy course, 
viz, to say nothing about the Taensa grammar until the author pro- 
duces the original manuscript. i 

Dr. Daniel G. Brinton appealed to American students to devote them- 
selves to our aboriginal languages,' quoting in conclusion the words 
of Professor Whitney : " The study of American languages is the most 
fruitful and the most important branch of American archaeology." 

Philologists are frequently at a loss to see how collectors of vocabu- 
laries can have listened so differently to the pronunciation of words of 
savages. Much of the diflerence in their vocabularies is doubtless due 
to a want of uniformity in alphabet and to the nationality of the tran- 
scriber. More subtle than either of these causes is that pointed out by 
Mr. Hale, namely, the existence of elementary sounds of an intermediate 
character which seem to float between two, and sometimes even three 
or four, divers articulations. 

The linguistic stocks of all the tribes of North America are gradually 
being worked out by the Bureau of Ethnology. The strip of west coast 
from Alaska to Mexico, crowded with different languages, is the last to 
yield to classification. Mr. Dorsey has succeeded in unraveling the 
little bands on the Siletz Agency with the following result : 

Athapascan or Tinne faniili/. — South liiver ; Chetcoe dialect of the 
Tutu ; Joshua and cognate dialects of the Lower Rogue River Indians ; 
Naltunnetunns ; Mekwunutunns; Yukwitee or Euchre dialect; Kwatami 
or Sixes ; Upper Coquille ; Applegate Creek ; Galice Creek ; Chasta 
Costa (Shista Khwu-sta). 

Siuslaw. — Siuslaw ; " Umpqua ; Alsea ; Yaquina. 

MulluJc. — Lower Coquille. 

Tdkelma. — Upper Rogue River, 

Sasti. — Shasta. 

Klikitat, 



842 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

COMPARATIVE TECHNOLOGY. 

In several quarters a fresh impulse lias been given to the intimate 
studj^ of modern savage technique. 

The fact that we have no other clue.to the industrial history of the 
past or to the explanation of the discoveries of the archneologist ought 
to have directed attention sooner to the necessity of describing savage 
processes down to the minutial. 

Dr. Washington Mathews, in his paper on Navajo weaving, has pro- 
duced a paper of this class worthy of imitation. Its highest commenda- 
tion is that any modern weaver could from the description reconstruct 
the apparatus and produce a Navajo blanket or belt. 

Col. F. A. Seeley, of the United States Patent Office, has published 
a second paper on the genesis of inventions from the standpoint of the 
patent examiner. A convenient term, eurematics, is used to define the 
study of inventions as to their order and their laws. 

Prof. Cyrus Thomas publishes in the third report of the Bureau of 
Ethnology an elaborate examination of the " Tableau des Bacabs," Codex 
Cortesianus, and plate 44, Fejervary Codex, to show the intimate rela- 
tion between the Maya and the Mexican symbols and calendars in their 
method of representation. 

Dr. Brinton's paper on the lineal measures of the semi-civilized na- 
tions of Mexico and Central America reaches the following conclusions: 

1. In the Maya system of lineal measures, foot, hand, and body meas- 
ures were nearly equally prominent, but the foot-unit was the customary 
standard. 

2. In the Cakchiquel system hand and body measures were almost 
exclusively used, and of these those of the hand prevailed. 

3. In the Aztec system body measurements were unimportant, hand 
and arm measures held a secondary position, while the foot measure 
was adopted as the official and obligatory standard both in commerce 
and architecture. 

4. The Aztec terms for their lineal standard being apparently of Maya 
origin suggests that their standard was derived from that nation. 

5. Neither of the three nations was acq;iainted with a system of esti- 
mation by weight, nor with the use of the plumb-line, nor with an accu- 
rate measure of long distances. 

SOCIOLOGY. 

As a means of realizing a vast amount of material for sociological 
purposes, the only safe method in such investigations. Dr. Francis Gal- 
ton has made use of family records, printed questions put in the hands 
of great numbers of people to be filled up. The results of this inquiry 
are partially summed up in the vice-presidential address before the 
section of anthropology in the British Association with the title " Types 
and their Inheritance." Especial attention is given to stature, for rea- 






ANTHROPOLOGY. 843 

sons Stated in the address. It appears that the oifspring does not tend 
to resemble the parents, but to be always more mediocre than they; to 
be smaller if the parents were large, to be larger than the parents if 
the latter were small. 

"There can be no doubt," says Mr. Galton, "that heredity proceeds 
to a considerable extent, perhaps principally, in a piecemeal or piebald 
fashion, causing the person of the child to bo to that extent a mosaic 
of independent ancestral heritages, one part coming with more or less 
variation from this progenitor and another from that. To express this 
aspect of inheritance where particle proceeds from particle, we may 
conveniently describe it as particulate." 

"Whenever a feature in a child was not personally possessed by either 
parent, but transmitted through one of them from a more distant pro- 
genitor, the element whence that feature was developed must have ex- 
isted in a particulate, though a personal and latent form in the body of 
the parent. The total heritage of that parent will have included a 
greater variety of material than was utilized in the formation of his 
own personal structure." The lecture closes with the application of the 
argument to the formation of colonies or composite individuals. 

Mr. Dall, from his long Alaskan experience, made familiar with 
masks and labrets, has extended his study into other regions, and pro- 
duced a work on the geographical distribution of these objects which 
is of great ethnical value. His speculations lead him to the conclusion 
that intimate relationship once existed between Oceanica and the west- 
ern continent. 

The Eev. J. Owen Dorsey was for many years among the Dakotan 
tribes, and became so conversant with their language and habits that 
he has been invited by the director of the Bureau of Ethnology to pre- 
pare an elaborate account of that stock. His monograph upon Omaha 
Sociology is the first of a series, which will terminate with grammars and 
vocabularies. Mr. Dorsey is by far the best equipped man in the world 
to treat this subject. The Omaha belong to the Dhegiha group of the 
Siouan family, the other member of the family being the Kwapa. In 
connection with this paper should be read Major Powell's report upon 
it in the introduction to his third annual report. 

:Mr. Ward read before the Anthropological Society of Washington a 
paper of great sociological importance, in which are contrasted moral 
and material progress. By the former, the author means the actual 
removal of social evils; by the latter, the discovery of principles and 
the invention of appliances calculated to remove them. The aim of the 
paper was to call attention to the fact that while material progress goes 
on by steady accretions, in which every step is ])ermanent gain, moral 
progress takes place by a rhythmic action of which only the algebraic 
sum of its many fluxes and refluxes can be counted. Every age has 
possessed all the arts of tlie age that preceded it, and has added some- 
thing to them, but the welfare of man does not advance by any such 



844 SCIP:NTIFIC record for 1885. 

method. Mr. Ward sees the reason for this iu the fact that kuowledj^c, 
ingenuity, skill, and industry, well-nigh omnipotent in the accomplish- 
ment of anything toward which they can be once fairly directed, have, 
not been applied to moral end and directed to the attainment of social 
well-being. 

MYTHOLOGY AND FOLK-LORE. 

A very important addition to the philosophy of animism is that of 
Mr. J. G. Frazer iu his connection of burial customs with the primitive 
theory of the soul. The whole range of literature has been consulted, 
and the scrupulous habit of Mr. Frazer in the enumeration of authori- 
ties will be of the greatest advantage to those who wish to follow up 
the subject. The feature most thoroughly examined is the identity of 
ghosts and the belief iu a second or spirit self. 

Major Powell, in reviewing Mr. Ball's paper on masks, draws atten- 
tion to the fact that in paraphernalia, as in folk-Ion^, the practical 
passes imperceptibly into the mythical. "Savage mythology deals 
largely with animal life, and savage drama is intimately associate d 
with savage mythology." Among many North American tribes the old 
men and women who transmit mythic lore are listened to with great 
interest, and as the stories of the ancient god beasts are told, resort is 
had to dramatic personification to give zest and vigor to the mythic 
tales. 



BIBLIOGRAFHY OF ANTHROPOLOGY, 1885. 

Abbott, Charles C. — Archteological frauds. P()i>. Sc. Mouth., xxvii, ;{08-311. 

The use of copper bj the Delaware Indians. Am. Naturalist, xix, 774-77(5. 

Abel, Carl. — (iross- und Kleiu-Russiseh. Leipzig: R. Dietitz. vi-i:58 pp. Hvo. 
Academy, The Loudon. (See Index for references to Sociological reviews and Folic- 

lore. ) 
Adam, Luciex. — Le Taensa a-t-il ^A6 forg6 de tontes pieces? R<5poDse a M. Daniel 

G. Brintou, A.M., M.D. Paris: Maisouueuve, 22 pp. 
Albrecht. — Ueber die grossere Liiuge der zweiteu Zehe bei den alten Griechen ; 2. Ueber 

die grossere Bestialitiit des weiblichen Meuscheugeschlechtes in anatouiiscbcr 

Hinsicht ; 3. Ueber die Uuterschiede des menschlicheu Beckeus von den iibrigen 

Att'enbecken. Cor.-Bliitt., xv, 99. 
Alcalde, J. G. — Recuerdos del Americano Aborigen. Gac. de sauid. mil., Madrid, 

X, XI, 1 ; 33 ; 65. 
Allen, E. A. — The suu symbol in earthworks. Am. Antiquarian, iv, 291-294. 
Amat, C.^-Les n^gresses du M'zab. Rev. Scient., Paris, pp. 33-38. (See, also, Los 

ufegres, id, 10 Janvier.) 
Amegiiino, Florentino. — Nuovos restos de mamiferos fosiles oligocenos. Buenos 

Aires. 205 pp. 8vo. 
American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal. Editor: Stephen D. Peet, Clinton, Wis. 

Bi-monthly. Vol. vii. 
American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, vol. iii. Worcester, Mass. 
American Association for the Advancement of Science. 34th meeting, hehl at Aim 

Arbor, Mich., Aug. 26 to Sept. 1. Section of Anthropology. Vice-presideut, 

William H. Dall, 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 845 

PAPERS UEAD. 

A visit to Siletz Agency. By J. Owen Dorsey. 

Permanence of early Iroquois clans and sacbemships. By W". M. Beauchamp. 

The remains of San Juan Teolihuacan. By Amog W. Butler. 

Significance of flora to the Iroquois. By Erminnie A. Smith. 

A supposed natural alloy of copper and silver from the north shore of Lake Superior, in 

Minnesota. By N. H. Winchell. 
Exhibition of copper implements. By W. C. "Wyman. 

Sacred war tent and some war customs of the Omahas. By Alice C. Fletcher. 
Laws and terms of relationship of the Omahas. By Francis La Flesche. 
Exploration of recent Indian mounds in Dakota. By William McAdams. 
Buatal customs of our aborigines. By Henry Gillman. 
An,cient pictographs in Illinois and Missouri. By William McAdams. 
Customs, language, and legends of the Senecas. By J. W. Sanborn. 
Music in speech. By M. L. House. 

The stone ax in the Champlain Valley. By G-. H. Perkins. i 

The number habit. By C. S. Minot. 
Indian personal names. By J. Owen Dorsey. 
An average day in camp. By Alice C. Fletcher. 
Are contemporary phantasms of the dead to be explained partly as folk-lore ? By C. S. 

Minot. 
Ornaments made of pieces of human skulls, from a mound In Ohio. By F. W. Putnam. 
On certain singular stone implements from Vermont. By G. H. Perkins. 
Explorations in the great Cahokia mounds. By William McAdams. 
Proper method of exploring mounds. By F. W. Putnam. 
Who made belt-wampnm ? By Erminnie A. Smith. 

Primary classifiers in Dhegiha and cognate languages. By J. Owen Dorsey. 
The degeneracy of races. By William Zimmerman. 

Dr. Dall's vice-presidential address was upon the native tribes of Alaska. 

American Journal of Archaeology and the History of Fine Arts. Baltimore. Vol. I. 

Editor: A. L. Frothingham, jr., Johns Hopkins University. 
American Journal of Philology. Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. Editor : B. 

Gildersleeve. Vol. v, No. 4 ; vi, 1, 2, 3, Quarterly. 
American Naturalist. Hlustrated Magazine of Natural History. Philadelphia. Vol. 

XIX, 12 nos. [Has departments of p.sychology and anthropology,] 
Anales del Museo Nacional de Mexico. Vol. iv. 

Anikier, Pa. A manual of human and animal anatomy. St. Petersburg. 281 p. 8vo. 
Annales du Mus^o Guimet. Paris: Leroux. 
Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, vol. xiv, 3, 4; xv, 

1, 2. Loudon. 
Anthropological Society of Washington. Transactions, vol. ill, Nov. 6, 1883-May 19, 

1885. Washington: For Soc, 204 pp. 8vo. [Papers by Kengla, Dorsey, Holmes, 

Blodgett, Thomas, Ward, Niblack, Bates, Thompson, Gregory, Gallandet, Burnett, 

Reynolds, Tylor, Howitt, Boas, Murdoch, Brinton, MindelefF, Matthews, Henshaw, 

Stevenson, Gatschet, Seely, and Powell.] 

LIST OF PAPEE8 READ. 

Stone mounds and graves in Hampshire County, W. Va. By L. A. Eengla. 
An Osage secret society. By J. Owen Dorsey. 
The textile fabrics of the mound-builders. By William H. Holmes. 
The census of Bengal. By .James A. Blodgett. 
The houses of the mound-builders. By Cyrus Thomas. 
The Cherokees probably mound-builders. By Cyrus Thonms. 
Mind as a social factor. By Lester F. W,ard. 
The Smithsoni.an Collections for 1883. By Albert Niblack. 
Discontinuities in Nature's method. By H. H. Bates. 
Recent graves in Kansas. By Alton H. Thompson. 
Elements of modern civilization. By J. M. Gregory. 
Migrations of the Siouan tribes. By J. Owen Dor.sey. 
International ethic*. By F. M. Gnllaudet. 

Comparative frequency of certain eyo^liseases in the white and tlie colored race in the 
United States. Bv Swan M. Burnett. 



846 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

LIST OF PAPERS READ — continued. 

Collection of antiquities from Vendome, Senlis, and the cave dwelliup:a of Franco. By 

Elmer R. Reynolds. 
Evidences of the antiquity of man on the site of the city of Mexico. By 'William H. 

Holmes. 
How tho problems of American anthropolo^ present themselves to the En^jlish mind. My 

E. B. Tylor. 
Australian group relations. By Alfred W. Howitt. 
The Eskimo of Baffin Land. By Franz Boas. 
Seal-catching at Point Barrow. By John Murdoch. 

Origin and development of form and ornament in ceramic art. By William H. Holmes. 
On the probable nationality of the mound-buUders. By Daniel G. Brinton. 
Moral and material progress contrasted. By Lester F. "Ward. 
Study of the circular rooms in ancient pueblos. By Victor Miudelelf. 
Circular architecture among the ancient Peruvians. By "William H. Holmes. 
9 Mjiihological dry-painting of the Navajos. By Washington Matthews. 

Medicine stones. By H. W. Hensh.aw. 
Mythological painting of the Zunis. By James Stevenson. 
The Chiricahua Apache sun-circle. By Albert S. Gatschet. 
The genesis of inventions. By F. A. Seelji. 
Sinew-backed bow of the Eskimo. By John Murdoch. 
The cubature of the skull. By Washington Matthews. 
From savagery to barbarism. Annual address by J. W. Powell. ■» 

Anthropologische Gesellschaft iix Wieu. Mittheiluugen. Vol. xv. 
Authropologisclie (Die) Sammlung des auatomi.sclien lustitut-s der Universitiit Bres- 

lau. G. Wieger. No. xii. Anthrop. Sammlungen Deutsclilands. Suppl. to Archiv. 

f. Anthrop., Bruscliwg. xv. 1vol. 4to. 
AxTiCHAX, P. H. — Le pays des Khroumirs: leiirs institutions, leurs coutumes, el leurs 

chants poptilaires. 2. ^d. Paris : Delagrave. 192 pp. 8vo. 
Antiqua. 1885. First volume. 
Arbo. Beitriige zur physisclien Anthropologic der Norweger. Verhandl. d. Berl. 

Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., Berlin. 66-70. 
Arcelin, Adrien.— Silex tertiaires. Mat^riaux, xix, 3 86r., ii, 193-204; 303-308. 
Archaeological Institute of America. 
Archiv fiir Anthropologie. Zeitschrift fiir Natnrgeschichtc nud Urgeschichte des 

Menschen. Organ der Deutschen Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologic 

und Urgeschichte. Vol. xvi, Heftl 1, 2, 3, 4. Braunschweig. ■ 

Archivio per 1' antropologia e la etnologia. Organo della Society, italiana, «S:c. Fi- 

renze, vol. xv, 1885, 4 fasc. Ed. : Paolo Mantegazza. 
Arloing, S. — Dissociation ou association uouvelle des mouvements instructifs sous 

I'influence de la volontd. Compt. rend. Soc. de biol., Paris, ii, 648-6.52. 
Armas, J. I. de. — Les cranes, dits d6form6s. Havane : El Fenis. 16 pp., 8vo. ' 
Association francaise pour I'avancement des sciences. At Grenoble, August 12-20. 

ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

AULT-DUMESNIL (d').— Nouvelles fonilles faites h Thenay. 

Blanchard, L.— Atavismo chez Thomrae. 

Chudzinski.— Sur les muscles de la face. 

COLLiNEAU.— Les inf6rieurs dans I'hnmanit^. 

COLLOMB. — Les iiopulatious du Haut-Niger. 

Fauvelle. — Des moyens do se rendre compte de I'intelligence dans les divers s races 

humaines. 
HovELACquE, A. — Les premiers brachyc^phales de I'Europe occidentalo. 
Hervi5, G.— Les anomalies costo-vertebrales chez les Anthropoids. 
Maxouvrieu.— Contribution anatomique a I'ethnologio de Franco. 
MoRTiLLET.— Position de la question tertiaire au point do vuo anthropologique. 

Distribution geograitliiquo do I'industrie raorgienne. 

TUBIXO.— Contribution :\ I'anthropologie espagnole. 
Zabarowski. — L'oiigine d;i for en Assyrie, 
Sur le fer en Chine. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. .S47 

Athenaeum, The. — (Reviews of archaeological and sociological works.) 

Avery, J. — The races of the Indoi)acitic Ocean. Am. Antiquarian, vii, l-(). [Notes 

from the far East in each number. J 
Ausland, Das. Stuttgart, vol. lvii, 52 numbers. 
Aymonier, Et., L'Epigraphie Kambodjienue. — Notes sur le Loas. Notes sur I'Auam. 

Saigon : Imprim. du Gouv. 

Les Chams [of eastern Indo-China]. Rev. d'ethnog., iv. 158-160. 

Baelz, Dr. — On the physical qualities of the Japanese. Mittheil. d. deutschen 

Gesellsch. f. Natur- und Volkerkunde Ostasiens. Heft 32, May. [Chapter on 

tattooing reviewed in Nature, Oct. 8.] 
Balfour, Surg. General. — Cyclopaedia of India' and of Eastern and Southern Asia, 

commercial, industrial, and scientific. 3 vols. 8vo. [Kev. in Atheuaeuin, Nov. 

28.] 
Barcena, Mariana de la. — Notice on some human remains found near the city of 

Mexico. Am. Naturalist, xix, 739-744. 
Barroil, Giclio. — Sulla lunghezza relativa del primo e secondo dito del piede umano. 

Archiv. per 1' autrop., Firenze, xv, 7-22. 
Bastian, a. — Der Papua desdunkelnlnselreichsimLichtepsychologischerForschung, 

Berlin, xxx-368 pp. 8vo. 

Indonesien oder die Inseln des Malayischen Archipels. Berlin : Diimmler, 114 

pp., 2 pi. 

Bates, H. H. — Discontinuities in Nature's methods. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash , iii, 

51-55. 
Baur, Tii. a. — Ueber Fetischdienst und Seelenkult als Urform der Religion. Corr.- 

Blatt d. deutschen Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., &c., xvi, 9-13; 19-21. 
Bayern, F. — Untcrsuchungen iiber die altesten Griiber- und Schatz-funde in Kau- 

kasien- Berlin. 8vo. 
Beauchamp, W. M. — Permanence of early Iroquois clans and sachemships. Paper 

before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 

Prehistoric fishing. Science, May 22. 

The Iroquois white dog feast. Am. Antiquarian, vir, 235-239. 

The homes of the Oueidas. Mag. Am. Hist., xiv, 387-396. 

Beauregard, Ollivier. — Coylan et ses habitants aux temps anciens, moyens et 

modernes. Bui. Soc. d'authrop. de Paris, xviii, 86-128. 

Malays et Dravidiens; leur origine commune. Bui. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

xviii, 535-576. 

Beauvois, E. — L'Elysco des Mes-icains compart a celui des Celtes. [From Rev. de 

I'Hist. d. Religions]. Paris: Lqi"oux. 8vo. 
Beddok, John. — The races of Britain ; a contribution to the anthropology of Western 

Europe. Bristol: Arrowsmith, 279 pp., 6 pi., 1 tab., 10 maps. 
Beigkl, I. — Die Medizin der Talmudisten uebst einem Anhange : Die Anthropologic 

der Alteu Hebriier. Leipzig and Berlin. 8vo. 
Beitriige zur Anthropologic und Urgesclii elite Bayerns. Municli. Vol. vi. 
Belck, W. — Messungen von Buschmannern und Hottentotten. Verhandl. <1. Berl. Ge- 
sellsch. f. Anthrop., 59-62. 
Bell, Alexander Graham. — Is then; a correlation between defects of the senses? 

Science, Feb. 13. 
Memoir upon the formation of a deaf variety of the human race. [From Mem. 

Nat. Acad. Sc. Wash., 86 pp., 1 chart. 
Bell, F. Jp;ffrey. — Comparative anatomy and physiology. Phila.. Lea Brothers. 

564 ])p. 
Benedict, W. R. — The nervous system and consciousness. Pop. Sc. Monih.. xxvi, 

731-749; xxvn. 66-77; 150-164. 



848 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885 

B^RENGEK-Fkraud.— fitiide snr la Tarasqne. Rev. d'authrop., viii, 108,133. [Tho 

Tarasquo is a parade in which a fautastic animal is. borne by men concealed 
within.] 
Berger, Philippe. — L' Arabia avant Mahomet, d'aprJis les inscriptions. Bull. hebd. 

de I'Assoc. sc. de France. Paris, 7-14 juiu. 
Berlix, a. F. — Relics of copper from eastern Pennsylvania. Am. Antiquarian, vil, 

4-2-44. 
Bkktiiet, Elie. — Paris avant I'histoi re. Paris: Jonvet. 346 pp. 8vo. 
Beutillon, J. — Taille. Diet, encycl. d. sc. mM., Paris, 3 s., xv, 581-G49; also Rev. 

Bcient., Paris, xxxvi, 481-488. 
Bertrand, Alexandre. — Les scnlptures de Gavr' Inis [resembling the lines on the 

l)alm of the hand]. Mag. Pittoresqne, Paris, an. liii, 59 
BiART, L. — Les Azteques, histoire, nm^nrs, coutnmes. Paris : Hennuyer, xxii-304 pp., 

illnstr., maps. Bvo. (Biblioth^qne ethnologique.) 
Billings, J. S., and Washington Matthews.— Methods of measnring the cubic 

capacity of crania. Paper read before JNatioual Academy of Sciences, April 21, 
1885. 

Composite photographs of skulls. J. Anthrop. Inst., xiv, 287. 

BiNKLEY, S. H. — A fortification and a cemetery at Dayton, Ohio. Am. Antiquarian, 

IV, 295-297. 

Ancient fortifications in Ohio. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 152-155. 

Blanciiard, Raphael. — L'Atavisme chez rhommc!. [Lemons faites a I'ficole d'anthro- 

pologie pendant le semestre d'hiver 1884-18H5 (cours libre d'anthropologie biolo- 

gique.] Rev. d'anthrop., viii, 425-492. 
Snr nn cas de polymastie et snr la signification des mammelles snrnum^raires. 

Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 226-239. 
Bliss, Eugene F.— The Diary of David Zeisberger, from 1781-1798. Cincinnati: R. 

Clarke. 2 vols. Bvo. 
Bi.ocH, A. M. — Note snr I'etat dn prepuce a la naissance chez les enfants jnifa. 

Compt. rend. Soc. de biol., Paris, ii, 495. 
Blodget, James A.— The census of Bengal. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., in, 9-13. 
Boas, Franz.— Cumberland sonnd and its Eskimos. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvi, 7()8-778. 
Die Sagen der Bafifin-Laud-Eskimos. Verhandl. d. Berlin, anthrop. Gesellsch., 

Ap. 18, 1685. 6 pp. 
Die Wohnsitze nnd Wandernngen der Baffinland Eskimos. Dentsche geog. 

Blatter, Bd. viii, Heft i, 31-38. 
Reise im Baffinlande in 1883 nnd l'-84. Verhandl. d. Gesellsch. f. Erdkunde, 

Berlin., Nos. v and vi, 10 pp. 

The Eskimo of Baffin Land. Ti. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., in, 95-102. 

BoDio, L. — Notice sur les travanx do la statistique officielle dn royanme d'ltalie en 

matiere d^mogruithiquo et sanitaire. Milan. 8vo. 
BoEKNER, P.— Textilindustrie. Ber. ii. d. allg. dentsche Ansst. a. d. Geb., Hyg.u. d. 

Rettnngsw., Breslau, i, 293-300. 
BOHN, F.— Les possessions fran^aises dn l>as-do-Cote. Bull. Soc. de g^ogr. de Mar- 
seilles, IX, 36-47, chart. 
Boletino Folk-16rico Espanole. Semimonthly journal published in Seville, Spain. 

Editors: A. Machado y Alvare and A. Guichet y Sierra. 
Boletin Folk-Lorico Gaditano. Ed. : D. Juan de Burgos y Reqnejo. Cadiz. Vol. i. 
Bolton, Henry Carrington.— A catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals 

(1665 to 1882), together with chronological tables and a library check-list. 

(Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 514.) Washington : Pub. by Sm. Inst. 
Bonaparte, Prince Roland.— Notes on the Lai^ps of Fiumark (in Norway). J. An- 
throp. Inst., XV, 210-213. 
Les rdcents voyages des NiSerlandais a la Nouvelle-Guin^e. Versailles: Im- 

prim6 pour ranteur, mars. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 849 

Bowes, G. B. — An atlae of practical elementary biology. New York: Macmillan. 4to. 
Bowes, J. L. — Japanese marks and seals. Loudon. 1 vol. 

Japanese enamels. 1 vol. 

Brain. A Journal of Neuroloj^y. T. 0. Bucknell: London. Quarterly, viii. 
Brehm, Alfred E. — Siberia aud the Exiles. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvii, 625-G37. 
Bridges, Tuomas.— The Yahgans of Tiorra del Fuego. J. xVnthrop, Inst., xiv, 288. 
Brinton, Daniel G. — American languages and why we should study them. Address 

before the Pennsylvania Hist. S'oc, Mar. 9. Reprint from Penn. Mag. Hist. & 

Biog. Phila. : J. B. Lippincott. 23 pp. 

Annals of the Cakchiquels. Vol. vi. Lib. Aborig. Am. Literature, Phila. 

Did Cortez visit Palencxue? Science, March 27. 

Notes on American Ethnology. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 301-304. 

On polysintheaes and incorporation as characteristics of American languages. 

41 pp. Phila. 
On the language and ethnologic position of the Xinca Indians of Guatemala. 

Read before Am. Phil. Soc, Oct. 17, 1884. 
On the probable nationality of the Mound Builders. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 

Ill, 116-118. 
The chief god of the Algonkins, in his character of a cheat and liar. Am. 

Antiquarian, vii, 137-140. 
The Lenap6 aud their legouds ; with the complete text and symbols of the 

Walam Olum, a new translation and an inquiry into its authenticity. Phila. : 

D. G. Brinton. Vol. v. in Library of Aboriginal American Literature. 
The lineal measures of the semi-civilized nations of Mexico and Central 



America. Read before Am. Phil. Soc, Jan. 2. 

— The philosophic grammar of American languages. 51 pp. Phil. 

— The sculptures of Cozumalhuapa. Science, July 17. 
The Taensa grammar and dictionary. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 275-277. 



British Association, Aberdeen meeting. 

PAVERS ON ASTHKOPOLOGY. 

Tho index of the pelvic brim as a basis of classiflcation. By Prof. W. Tamer. 

Insular Greek customs. By J. Theodore Bent. 

Parliamentary acts relating to ancient monuments. By Gen. Pitt-RiverB. 

American shell-work and its affinities. By A. W". Buckland. 

Red men about Roraima in British Guiana. By E. F. im Thurn. 

A game with a history. By J. "W. Crombic. , 

The rule of the road. By Georjie C.impbell. 

The modes of grinding and drying corn in old times. Bj- Jeannie M. Laing. 

The flint-knapper's art in Albania. By A. J. Evans. 

The discovery of JTaukratis. By "W. Flinders Petrie. 

A new man of Mentone. By Thomas Wilson. 

Ancient British lake dwellings. By R. Munro. 

Abnormal and arrested development as an induction of evolutionary history. By J. 6. 

Garson. 
The Nicobar Islanders. By E. H. Man. 
The scope of anthropology and its relation to the science of mind. By Alexander Bain. 

Brooks, W. K. Can man bo modified by selection? Pop. Sc. Month., xxvii, 15-24. 
Brookville Society of Natural History (Indiana). Bulletin No. 1. published in 1885. 
Brugmann, Karl. — Zum houtigen Stand der Sprachwissenschaft. Strassbnrg : 

Triibner. 144 pp. 8vo. [Review by Professor Fry-in Science, October 23.] 
Brunati, a. — Una microeofala. Arch, per le mal. nerv., Milano, xxii, 148-159. 
BiEDERMANN, Dr.— Superstitions about the Dolphin. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvi, G91- 

694. 
Buckland, Annie W. — Facts suggestive of prehistoric intercourse between East and 

West. J. Anthrop, Inst., xiv, 222-232. 
bureau of Ethnology. Annual report, dateil 1884. Printed in 1885. Washington : 

Govt. Print. Lxxiv + 606 pp., 44 pis., 200 figs. [For contents see PowelL. 

Thomas, Dall, Dorsey, Matthews, Holmes, Stevenson.] 
H. Mis. 15— —54 



850 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Burnett, Swan M. — CDmparative frequency of certain eye diseases in the white and 

the colored races of the United States. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., iii, 67. 
Butler, Amos W. — The remains at San Juan Teotihuacau. Paper hefore A. A. A. 

S., Ann Arbor meeting. Am. Antiquarian, "vri, 148-151. 
Butr6n, Emilio. — Memoria sobre las islas Carolinas. Bol. isoc. Geog., Madrid, xrx, 

23 ; 95; 138. 
Cagnat, E. — Rapport sur uue mission en Tunisie, 1881-82. Archives d. Mission 

scient., 157 pp,, charts and plates. Paris. 
Callomb. — Contribution k l'6tude do I'ethnologie et do I'authropom^trie des races du 

Haut Niger. Lyon. 8vo. [From Bulh Soc. d'authrop. de Lyon.] 
Campbell, John T. — Traces of prehistoric man in the Wabash. Am. Naturalist, xix, 

965-971. 
Cameron, A. L. P. — Notes on some tribes of New South Wales. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

XIV, 344-370. 
Canadian Institute in Toronto. Proceedings, vol. ii, ser. 3. 
Candolle, Alphonse de. — Histoire des sciences et des savants depuis deux sifecles. 

2. 6d. Geneve-Bale: Georg. .594 pp. Hvo. [Review in Science, Jan. 2.] 
Capus, G. — La vall6e des Jagnaous (Central Asia). Rev. d'ethnog., IV, 233. 
Carneri, B.—Zur Geschichte der Moral. Kosmos. Vol.i. 1 ; 81 ; 321. 
Cartailhac, Emile. — Cours d'antLropologie a Toulouse. Mat^riaux, xrx, 3 86r., 

II, 47. 
Gravures et objets sculptes de I'age du renne. Mat^riaux, xix, 3 ser., ii, 295- 

299. 

Les grottes artiticielles sepulcrales. Matdriaux, xix, 3 s6r., ii, 1-18. 

ffiuvres iu^dites des artistes chasseur de rennes. Mat6riaux, xix, 3 ser., ii, 

63-75 ; 295-299. 
Carter, H. Brudenell. — Hints on vision-testing. J. Anthrop. Inst., XV, 121-127. 
Castaing, a. — Eihnographie de la France. 116 pp. 12mo. Vol. li. Biblioth^que 

ethnographique. 

Le commuuisme au P6rou. Aich. Soc. am6ricaine de France, m, 15. 

Les systemes religieux dans rautiquit6 P^ruvieune. Id., 86; 145; 239. 

Castelfranco, Pompeo. — L'anthropologie gemSrale k I'Exposition de Turin en 1884. 

Mat^riaux, xix, 3 ser.,ii, 36-40. 
Cels, Alphonse. — filaments d'anthropologie. Bruxelles, 1884, i. 8vo. 
Channing, Edward. — Bulgaria and the Bulgarians. Science, October 9. 

The Narragausett Planters. Johns Hopkins' University Studies, ser. 4, No. 3. 

The races of Central Asia. Science, May 1. 

Chantre, Ernest. — Les Dolmens du Caucase. Mat^riaux, xxx, 3 s6r., ii, 545-557. 

Monuments et superstitious de I'epoque n^olithique. L'Homme, Paris, 74-87. 

Charency, H. de. — De la coujugaison dans les langues de la famille Maya-Quich6. 

[From il/((seo«.] Louvain : Peeters. 8vo. 
Charnay, Desire. — Les anciennes villes du uouveau monde. Paris : Hachette. 

407 pp., 204 tigs., 19 charts. 

Le Yucatan au moment de la conquete. Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 81-87. 

Chiarugi, Giulio. — Delle oniologie e dei rapporti reciproci della fossetta occipitale 

media e del lobo ineiUano del cerveletto uell'uomo e negli altri mammiferi. Siena. 

21 pp., 1 pi. 8vo. 
Christiani, Arthur.— Znr Physiologic des Gehims. Berlin : Enslin. x + 175 pp., 2 

pi. 8vo. [Reviewed in Science.] 
Clark, W. P. — The Indian sign language, &c. Philadelphia : Hammersly. 443 pp. 8vo. 
Clavel.— Les Marquisiens. Arch. d. m6d. nav., Paris, xui, 194; xxm, 209: 353, 

1884-'85. 
Clevenger, S. V. — Comparative physiologj^ and psychology. A discussion of the evo- 
lution and relations of the mind and body of man and animals. Chicago : Jan- 
sen, McClurg & Co. vi-f 247+10 ijp. 8vo. [Reviewed in Science, May 8. Alao 

Am. Naturalist, xix, 1-17. ] 



ANTHKOPOLOGY. 851 

CoHX, Fekd. — Prahostorische Pflanzenfunde in Sclilesien. Corr.-Blatt.,xv, 101-109. 
Cougrfes arcli^ologique de France. Report of 17th session at Montboison (Loire) in 

Matdriaux, XIX, 284-287. 
Congres iuteruational d'anthropologie et d'arch^ologie pr^historique will be held in 

Athens in 1886, during the autumn. 
Cope, Edward D. — Origin of man and other vertebrates. Pop. So. Month., xxvu, 

605-613. 
Correspoudenzblatt der deutschen Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, &c. Munich. Vol. 

XVI, 12 numbers. Ed. : Dr. Johannes Ranke. 
COBBEAU, G. — L'homme tertiairo de Thenay. Anxerre. 23 pp. 8vo. 
COUDREAU, H. A. — Vocabulaires de dialectes indigenes de I'Am^rique 6quatoriale. 

Arch. Soc. ani6ricaine de France. New ser., m, pt. 6. [Vocabularies of Tucano 

or Dace & Taviano or Javis.] 
Curl, J. M. — On Phoenician intercourse with Polynesia. J. Anthrop. Inst.jXiv, 273- 

274. 

CzoRNiG, Carl Freiherr von. — Die alten Volker Ober Italiens. Wien : Holder. 311 

pp. 8vo. 
D'AcY, M. E. — De la pseudo-taille des silex de Thenay. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

xvm, 173-184. 
Daffner, Franz. — Ueber Grosse, Gewicht, Kopf- und Brustumfang beim miinnlichen 

Individuum vom 13 bis 22 Lebensjahre, nebst vergieichender Angabe einiger 

Kopfmaase. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, sup., 121-126. 
Dall, William Healy. — Masks, Labrets, and certain aboriginal customs, with an in- 
quiry into the bearing of their geographical distribution. Third An. Kep. Bureau 

of Ethnology, pp. 67-202. Plates v-xxix. 
The native tribes of Alaska. Vice-president's address before the section of 

Anthropology, Am. Association at Ann Arbor. Separate print, Salem : Salem 

Press. 19 pp. 
D'Alviella, Count. — Religious value of the Unknowable. Pop. Sc. Mouth., xxvi, 

779-7«6. 
Dareste, M. — Hypothfese sur I'origine des droitiers et des gauchers. Bull. Soc. d'an- 
throp., de Paris xvin, 415-418. 
Darmesteter, James. — Le Mahdi depuis les origines de I'Islam jusqu'a uos jours. 

Paris: E. Lerous. ISmo. 

The Mahdi, past and present. London: Unwin. 150 pp. 12nio. 

D'Ault-Dumesnil. — Xote sur de nouvelles fouilles faites h Thenay, Loir-et-cher, e 

sept. 1884. Mat6riaux, xix, 241-251. 
David, T. — Anomalies de I'appareil dentaire chez l'homme. Amiens [from Odontolo- 

gie]. Bvo. 
Davis. N. Darnell. — The etymology of the word Rum. Time/tn, Demerara. iv.,pp. 

76-81. 
Decazes, E. — Chez les Bat^k^s. Rev. d'ethnog., rv, 160-168. 
De Hass, Wills. — Animal mounds of Wisconsin. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann 

Arbor meeting. 
Delacroix, J. E. — Le temple de Boro-Boudour. Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 452-456. 
Delaunay, M. — Sur la beauts. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 19:5-200. 
De;lbrueck, B. — Die neueste Sprachforschung. Leii>zig: Breitkopf. 49 pp.. 8vo. 
De Morgan, J. — N6grit08 de la presqu' lie Malaise. Homme, Paris, ii, 577 ; 609. 
Deniker, J. — Sur un foetus de gibbon et son placenta. Conipte-r. de I'Acad. des sc, 

Paris, 654-656. Also Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Par., 1884. 74:3-748. 
De SeriS, Louis. - La virilit6 et I'age critique chez l'homme et chez la femme. Paris: 

Delahaye, &c. 29 pp. 
Deutsche anthropologische Gesellschaft. xv. allgemeine Versammlung zn Breslau, 

4.-7. Aug. 1884. Report in Corresp Jndenz-Blatt, xv. 
XVI. algemeine Versammlung, in Kailsruhe, 6.-9. August 1885. Stenographic 

report in Corresi)ondenzblatt, xvi, Nos. 9, 10, 11, 12. 



852 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

COMMUNICATIONB. 

Scope and tendencies of anthropology. Opening address by President Schaaffhaneen. 

Statistics of color in eyes, hair, and skin. By R. Virchow. 

The Rhine in prehistoric and historic times. By Honsell. 

Roman Baden. By Herr Bissinger. 

Prehistoric connection between Upper Donau and Upper Rhine. By Herr Mayor. 

Excavation in Tiryns. By Henry Schliemann. 

The origin of the Grermans. By Dr. Wilser. 

Committee on pelvic measurements. 

Committee on the color of the hair. 

Committee on prehistoric charts. 

Committee on nephrite chart. 

Gold objects found at Petroossa. By R. Virohow. 

The ethnography of Japan. By Herr Balz. 

Man's place in nature. By Herr Albrecht. 

Russian superstitions. By Herr Kullischor. 

Measuring apparatus. By Herr Mies. 

An anthropographic apparatus. By Hans "Virohow. 

The human pelvis. By Herr Hennig. 

Hallstadt and La T^ne. By Otto Tischler. 

Necklaces of bronze. By Herr Cohausen. 

Dictionnaire des sciences anthropologiques, piibli6 sous la direction de Letournoau, 

de Mortillet, Hovelacque, etc. Livr. 15. Paris. 4to. Figs. 
D , Madame G.— Sur la musique chez les Chinoia. Mag. Pittoresque, an. liii, 234 ; 

•287 ; 327 ; 390. 
DoiGNEAU, M. — A propos des silex de Theuay. Mat^riaux, xrs, ser. 3, li, 44-46. 
DONATi, GiROLAMO. — Sopra alcuni amuleti tibetani del Mnseo d'antropologia di Fi- 

renze. Archiv. per 1' antrop., xv, 23-30. 
DONNAT, L. — La politique esp6rimentale. Paris : Reinwald. vm-f 488 pp. 12mo. 
Dorset, J. Owen. — An Osage secret society. Tr. Antbrop. Soc. Wash., in, 3-5. 

A visit to the Siletz agency. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 

Indian personal names. Paper before the A. A. A. S. , Ann Arbor meeting. 

Migrations of the Siouan tribes. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., ni, 65. 

Mourning and war customs of the Kansas. Am. Naturalist, xix, 670-680. 

New vocabularies from Oregon. Am. Antiquarian, voL"Vii, 41,42. 

Omaha sociology, in. An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 205-370, plates xxx-xxxiii, 

figs. 12-42. 
Primary classifiers in Dhegiha and cognate languages. Paper before the A. A. 



A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 



Siouan folk-lore and mythological notes. Am. Antiquarian, vn, 105-107. 

Vocabularies at Siletz agency. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 41. 

Douglas, A. E. — Some characteristics of the Indian earth and shell mounds of the 

Atlantic coast of Florida. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 74-81; 140-148; Ancient canals 

of Florida, id., 285-289. 
DuFFiELD, J. — Ou the native.s of New Ireland. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 114-121. 
Dumas. — Attitude naturelle du membre sup^rieur de I'homme. Gaz. hebd. d. sc. mM. 

de Montpel., vn, 182-186. 
Dupoux. — Les femmes-m^decins dans l'antiqnit6. M^decin. Paris, xi. No. 15. 
Di:ro, C. F. — Antigiiedades en America Central. Madrid. Pamphlet. 

Relaciones geogrfificas de Indias de Pern. Madrid. Vol. ii. 

Duval, Mathias. — Bibliothfeque anthropologique. Le Darwinisme. Paris: A. Dela- 

haye. 636 pp. 8vo. 
Sur les reufs i)Ourris comme aliment en Chine. Bull. Soc. d'authrop. de Paris, 

XViii, 299. 
Le Transformisme (suite). Cours d'anthropologie g^ologiqne k I'ficole d'an- 

thropologie. Rev. d'anthrop., viii, 1-38, 193-'i0<): also 1883, 211; 406; 557; 1884, 

22; 577. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 85?» 

Ebbinghaus. Herm.-- Ueber das Gedjichlinies. Leipzig : Duucker. x-|-l69 ]>)». 8vo. 

[Review in Science, Sejit. 4.] 
EccLES, R. G. — Darwinism and immunity. N. Y. Med. J., XLH, 311-314. 
Eells, Myrom. — The worship and traditions of the aborigines of America; or their 

testimony to the religion of the Bible. Paper read before Victoria Inst., London- 

41 pp. 
filaments de science sociale, on religion physique, sexuelle et naturelle, «tc. Tours: 

F. Alcan. 8vo. 4. 6d. Tr. from 23. ed. Eng. 
El folk-lore Espatiol. — Sociedad para la recopilacion y estudio del saber y de las tra- 

diciones populares. Madrid : Publishes quarterly El Folk-lore B6tico-extremeQo. 

M. Antonio Machado y Alvarez. 
Elliott, A. M. — Contributions to the history of the French language in Canada. Am. 

J. of Philology, V, 135-160. 
Ely, Richard T. — Recent American Socialism. Johns Hopkins Univ. Studies in 

Hist. & Polit. Sc, 3. ser., iv. Baltimore: N. Murray. 74 pp. 
Fabart, Felix. — Histoire philosophique et politique de I'occulte, magie, sorcellerie, 

spiritisme, «fec. Paris: Marpon. 366pp. 8vo. 
Fame, L. — Des causes internes et exterues des diversit^s des races humaines. Gaz. 

m€d. de I'Alg^rie, Alger, 19-26. 
Fassel, V. — Volksmedicin und medecinischer Aberglaube in Steiermark. Graz : 

Leuschner. 8vo. 
Fauvelle, Dr. — De la volont6 an point de vue anthropologique. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. 

de Paris, xviii, 154. 

De la volont6 an point de vue physiologique. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

xviii, 58-68. 

Des id^es et de la m^moire. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 485-.')07. 



Feathermajst, a. — Social history of the races of mankind. London : Triibner, I. 

Nigritians. 

Fernandez-Duro, CesIreo. — Primeras noticias de Yucatan. Bol. Soc. geog. , Madrid, 

XIX, 336-342. 
FiNLAYSON, F. C. — Biological religion. London : Simkin. 110 pp. 8vo. 
Fischer, H. — Ueber den Stand der Kenntnisse von der prahistorischen Persier. Cor- 

respondenz-Blatt, xvi, 17-19. 
FiNSCH, Otto. — Ueber Bekleidung, Schmuck und Tatowirung der Papuas der Siid- 

ostkiiste von Neu-Guinea. Mittheil. d. anthrop. Gesellsch., Wien, xv, 12-33. 
Flesch, M. — Zur Casuistik anomalCT* Befunde au Gehimen von Verbrechern und 

Selbstmordern. Arch. f. Psychiat., Berlin, xvi, 689-697. 
Fletcher, Alice C. — An evening in camp among the Omahas. Science, July 31. 

An average day in camp among the Sioux. Science, October 2. 

Historical sketch of the Omaha tribe of Indians in Nebraska. Washington : 

Detweiler. 12 pp., illustr., map. 8vo. 

A letter from the Exposition at New Orleans to the Indian tribes. Carlisle: 

Ind. Sch. Print. 

Report to Commr. of Ind. Affairs on Indian Bureau at N. Orleans. Id., 3 

pp. 8vo. 

Sacred war tent and some war customs of the Omahas. Paper before the A. 

A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 

Flint, Earl. — Human footprints in Nicaragua. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 156-158. 

I'lower, Wm. H. — On the classification of the varieties of the human species. 
Presidential address bpfore Anthrop. Inst. Gr. Brit., &c., Jan. 27. London : Har- 
rison &, Son. From J. Anthrop. Inst., xiv, 378-395. 

Folklore Society. London. Folk-lore Journal, Vol. m. Issued quarterly. 

I'ORBES, Henry O. — A naturalist's wandering in the Eastern Archipelago, from 1878 
to 1883. London : Sampson Low & Co. Illustr. 

Formosan ethnology. Nature, Aug. 13. 346, 347. 



854 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOE 1885. 

FoRTESCUE, J. — Lea Indians Cris de l'Am6rique du Nord. Arch. Soc. am6ricaiuo do 

France, iii, 31. 
Foster, William E. — Town government in Ehode Island. Johns Hopkins Univ. 

Studies, ser. 4, No. ii. 
Franklix, Selem M.— The science of morality. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvii, 661-(364. 
Frazer, James G.— On certain burial customs as illustrative of the primitive theory 

of the soul. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 64-104. 

The primitive ghost and his relations. Pop. Sc. Month., XXVii, 668-683. 

French Association for the Advancement of Science, 14th meeting. Grenoble, August 

12-20. 
Fritsch, A.— Ueber einen Menschenschiidel aus dem Loss von Podbaba bei Prag. 

Sitzungsb. d. Gesellsch d. Wissensch., Prag, 152-156. 
Gaea.— Natur und Leben. Coin. Vol. 21, 12 Hlte. 
Gaidoz, H. — Les origines de la Grande-Bretagne et la nationality anglaise. Rev. 

internat. de I'euseign., Paris. 
Gallaudet, E. M. — International Ethics. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., iii, 65-67. 
Galton, Francis. — Opening address before the section of Anthropology in the 

British Association. Nature, September 24. 
Regression toward mediocrity in hereditary stature. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 

246-263 [with 5 graphic tables]. 

The Anthropometric laboratory at the late International Health Exhibition. 



J. Anthrop. Inst., xiv, 205-220; 275. 

Gannett, H. — Are we to become Africanized? Pop. Sc. Month., N. Y., xxvii, 
14.5-150. 

Garson, J. G. — On the inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 141-160. 

On the physical characteristics of the Lapps. J. Anthrop. Inst., XV, 23.5-238. 

Gatsohet, Albert S. — The Chiricahua Apache sun-circle. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 
HI, 144-147. 

The Ataocapa language. Lake Charles Echo, La., February 14, 1885. 

The Beothuk Indians. 1 art. Am. Phil. Soc, Phila., June 19. 

The Aruba language and the Papiamento jargon. Kansas City, Rev., No- 
vember. 

The Rhetsua language. (Kev. of v. Tschudi.) pp. 227-230. 



Die Karankawa Indianer. Globus. Braunschweig 



»• 



The Yuchi tribe of Indians and its language.- Science, March 27. 

Gegenbaur, C. — Lehrbnch der Anatomie des Menschen. 2. Aufl. 1 Hefte. Lpzg. : 

Engelmann. 8vo. 
Geiger, W. — Civilization of the eastern Iranians in ancient times. Vol. I. Ethnog- 
raphy and social life. London : Frowde. 302 pp. 8vo. 
Gervais, p., andH. p. — Elements de zoologie comprenant I'anatomie, la physiologie, 

la classification et I'histoire naturelle de I'homme et des animaux. Paris : Ha- 

chette et Cie. 8vo. 
GiACOMiNi. — Annotations sur I'anatomie du nfegre. (From Gior. d. r. Accad, di raed. 

di Torino. ) Arch. ital. de biol., Turin, vi, 247-304, 2 pi. 
GiACOMiNi. — Contributo alio studio della microcefalia. Arch, di psichiat., «&c., 

Torino, VI, 65-81, 2 pi. 
GiACOMiNi. — Studies in microcephaly. Archiv. di psichiat. e la sc. penale., vi, fasc. 

1 and 2. 
GiGLiOLi, Enrico. — Notizie sugli indigeni delle Isole Nicobar. Archiv. per I'antrop., 

XV, 31-35. 
Gill, S. — A chapter of medical archaeology; the ring in medical lore. N. Orl. M. & S. 

J., XII, 735-748. 
Gill, Theodore. — Man's Ancestry. Science, August 28. 
Gill, W. Wyatt.— Jottings from the Pacific. London : The Religious Tract Society. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 855 

rjiLLKBERT d'Hercourt, Dr. — Rapport sur I'anthropologie ei I'ethuologie des popu- 
lations sardes. Arch, (les miss, scient., Paris: Nat. Impr. 6 pi. Bvo. 

GiLLMAN, Henry. — Burial ciiHtonis of our aborigines. Paper before the A. A. A. S., 
Ann Arbor meeting. 

Further confirmation of the post-mortem character of the cranial perlbrations 

from Michigan mounds. Am. Naturalist, xix, 1127. 

Glass, Henry. — Marine international law. Proc. U. S. Naval Institute, xi, 355-60:^. 

Globus. — Illustrirte Zeitschrift fur Lander und Volkerkunde. Braunschweig: 
Kiepert. Vols. 47 and 48. 

Goldstein, Ed. — Introduction ^ I'Mude anthropologique desJuifs. Rev. d'anthrop., 
3. s^r., VIII, 639-675. 

GozzADiNi, Giovanni. — Di due Stele Etrusche. Reale Acad, del Lincei, cclxxxii, 
8 pp., 2 pi. 4to. 

Gratacap, L. p. — Ruins at Palenque and Copan. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 193-207 ; 257- 
270. 

Green, E. H. — The hygiene of the Eskimo, with some observations on the thermom- 
eter, to determine their physiological norm. Med. News, Phila., XLvn, 505-.507. 

Greg, R. P. — Some prehistoric and ancient linear measures. Canadian Rec. of Sc, 
I, 211-228. 

Gregory, J. M. — Elements of Modern Civilization. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., ui, 57- 
64. 

Griffin, Appleton P. C. — Contributions to the bibliography of Historical Societies 
in America. Mag. American Hist., xiv, 106-110; 218-221; 418-421; 523-524. 

Gul^NEAU, DE MussY N. — Considerations sur la diminution d9 la natalit6 en France, 
&c. Union m6d., Paris, xxxix, 325-336. 

GuiMET, Em. — Huit jours auxludes. Le Tour du Monde, April. 

Haeckel, Ernst. — Ursprung und Entwickelung der thierischen Gewebe; ein histo- 
genetischer Beitrag zur Gastroea-Tlieorie. Jenaische Ztschr. f. Naturwissen., xi, 
266-275. 

Hale, Horatio. — Ethnography of Antarctic America. [Review of P. de Lucy 
Fossarieu's '"Ethnographic de I'Am^rique antarctique."] Science, July 31. 

On some doubtful or intermediate articulations ; an experiment in phonetics. 

Loudon: Harrison & Sons. [From J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb., 233-244.] 

Chief George H. M. Johnson (Onwanonsyshon). His life and work among the 

Six Nations. Mag. Am. Hist., Feb. 

Report on the Blackfeet tribes. British Association, Aberdeen meeting. Na- 
ture, Oct. 1. 

The obsequies of Red Jacket at Buffalo. From Trans. Buffalo Hist. Soc, 



vol. Ill, 118 pp. 

The Iroquois sacrifice of the white dog. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 7-12. 



Haliburton, R. G. — Lost colonies of America. Pop. Sc. Month., vol. xxvii, 40-50. 
Hallett, Holt S.— Explorations in Indo-China. Science, Aug. 7. [From London 

Graphic] 
Hammond, G. M. — New form of Dynamometer. N. Y. Med. J., p. 83. 
Hajmy, E. T. — Decades am^ricaines. 
I5tude sur les peintures ethniques d'un tombeau Th6bain de la xvm. dynastie. 

4 figs, pamph., in 8vo. 
Les arts et les industries des n^gres d'Afrique. Science et Nature, iii. 200; 

327, fig. 

Les Lacandons de la haute Uzumacinta. Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 1-5. 

L'industrie hameconniJ^re chez les anciens habitants de I'archipel Californien. 

Id., 6-13. 

Le svastika et la roue solaire en Am<5rique. Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 14-22. 

Note sur les chevets des anciens IJgyptieus et sur les aflSnit^s ethnographiqaea 

que manifesto leur emploi. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 290. 



85C SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1885. 

FlASfYi F. T. — Stahl process for the cousolidatiou of burned objects, by means of Col- 

ophane 1 pt., 4 parts of white fish glue (Ijlanc de baleine). 
Harlez, C. de. — L'infanticide en Chine d'apr^s les documents chinois. Louvain : B. 

Peelers. Svo. 
Harrington, Harriet. — A family record showing the heredity of disease. Phys. 

& Surg. An. Eep., Mich.. 49-51. 
Haynes, H. W. — French fabrications or blunders in American linguistics. Proc. Am. 

Autiq. Soc, III, 47.5-481 ; Prehistoric Congress at Lisbon. Science, v, iilS. 
Hkarn, L. — Gombo Zh6bes : Dictionary of Creole proverbs; selected from six Creole 

dialects. N. Orleans : T. C. Eyricli. 8vo. 
Heger, Fr. — Ueber die Tiitowirung bei der Siidsee-Insnlanren. Mittheil. der anthrop. 

Gesellsch., Wien. 35.-37. 
Hellwald, F. von. — Naturgeschichte des Menschen. Stuttgart : Speman. HI. Svo. 
Hennig. — Das Eassenbecken. Arch. f. Anthrop., Brnschwg., xvi, 161-228, 1 pi. 

[With bibliography.] 
Henshaw, Henry W. — Medicine stones. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., iii, 142, 143. 

The aboriginal relics called sinkers, or plummets. Am. J. Archseol., i, No. 2, 

10 pp. 
d'Hercourt, Gillebert. — Eapport sur I'anthropologie et I'ethnologie des popula- 
tions sardes. Paris. 73 pp., 6 pi. Svo. 
Higginson, T. W.— American flash language in 1798. Science, May 6, Oct. 2. 
HiLDEBRAND, Hans. — Bcitrage zur Keuntniss der Kunst der niederer Naturvolker. 

200 tigs, 8 tables and charts. Leipzig : Brockhaus. 8vo. 
His, W. — Anatomie menschlicher Embryonen. III. Zur Geschichte <1(M- Organe. 

Leipzig : Vogel. Svo. Atlas. 
Hoffman, Waxter, J. — Remarks on aboriginal art in California and Queen Charlotte 

Island. Washington. 17 pp. 8vo. [From Proc. Davenport Acad, iv, 105-122.] 
Une curieuse reliqne trouv6e dans la Californie dn-Sud. Bull. Soc. d'anthro}). 

de Par., xviii, 25-28. 

Bird names of the Selish, Pah-Uta and Shoshoni Indians. The Auk., ii, 7-10. 

Die kunst nuter den Haida-Indianeru der Konigiu-Charlotte-Inseln. Das Ans- 

laud, 701-704. 
Hugo Eoid's Account of the Indians of Los Angeles Co., Cal. Bui. Essex Inst., 



XVII, 1-33. 

Hoffmann and Rauber.— Lehrbuch der Anatomie des Menschen. 2 vols. Eriangen : 

Besold. Svo. 
Hofmann, K. B. Ueber vermeintliche antike Seife. DeutscheaAr.h. f. Gescli. d. Med., 

«fcc., Leipzig, viii, 208-215. 
Holmes, William H. — Ancient Pottery of the Mississippi Valley. From Proc. Dav- 
enport Acad. Sc, IV, 123-196. Washington : Judd & Detweiler. 
Evidences of the antiquity of man on the site of the city of Mexico. Tr. 

Anthrop. Soc. Wash., iii, 68-81. 
Examples of iconoclasm by the conquerors of Mexico. Am. Naturalist, xix, 

1031-1037. 
Illustrated catalogue of a portion of the collections made by the Bureau of 

Ethnology during the field season of 18S1. iii. An. Eep., pp. 427-510, figs. IIG- 

200. 
Origin and development of form and ornament in ceramic art. Tr. Anthrop. 

Soc. Wash., HI, 112-115. 
Prehistoric textile fabrics of the United States derived from impressions on 

pottery, iii. An. Rep. Bur. Ethuol., p]>. 393-425, plate xxxix, figs. GO-115. 

The textile fabrics of the mound builders. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., Jii, 



G-9. 

HoMMEi., Fritz. — Neue Werke liber die Urheimath der Indogermanen. Arch. f. An- 
throp., XV, sup., 16:1-168. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 857 

Horn ADAY, William T.— Two years iu a Jungle, the experience of a hunter and 

naturalist in India, Ceylon, the Malay peninsula, and Borneo. Maps & ill. N. 

York : C. Scribner's Sons. 512 pp. 8vo. 
HoRXUNG. — Les races de la Suisse au point do vue historique et juridique. Trav. 

Assoc, des Soc. Suisses de G6og. Genfevo : Staplemohr. 8vo. 
HoRSLEY, Victor. — The motor centres of the brain and the mechanism of the will. 

Lecture before the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Nature, Aug. 20, 1885. 
Houz6, E., et Victor Jacques. — Les Australiens du Mus6e du Nord. Bruxelles: 

F. Hayez. 101 pp., 4pl., & figs. 8vo. [Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Bruxelles, iii.] 
HovELACQUE, Abel. — L'6volution du langage. Conference Transformiste. Pari.s : A. 

Henuuyer. 23 pp. [Extr. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviu, 371.] 
Le commerce a distance en Malaisie, h Ceylan, dans I'Asie du Nord-est, en 

Afrique. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xvni, 457-462. 
HowiTT, A. W. — Australian group relations. Smithson. Rep., 1883,797,824. 
The Teraeil or initiation ceremonies of the Kurnai tribe. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

XIV, 301-325. 

Hoy, p. R. — Man's influence on the avifauna of southwestern Wisconsiu, Madison, 
pamph. 

Hull, E. Gordon. — Domestic remedies of the Arabian desert. Brit. Med. J., Lon- 
don, I, 734. 

The Arabs of Arabia Petraea, and Wady Arabah. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv. 

132-136. 

Hughes, Thomas P.— A dictionary of Islam. London : W. H. Allen & Co. 750 pp. 
8vo. 

Hf'TTEROTT. — On the Japanese sword. Mitheil. d. deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Nat.-u. 
Volkerkunde Ostasiens. Heft 33. 

Hyades, Dr. — Sur l'6tat actuel des Fuegians de I'archipel du cap Horn. Bull. Soc. 
d'anthrop. de Paris, 200. 

Iles, George.— Religion without dogma. Pop, Sci, Month., xxvn, 51-62. 

Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office, United States Army. 
Authors and subjects. Vol. vi. Heastie to Insfeldt. Washington : Govt. Print. 
[ll]-f-1051 pp. 

Index Medicus, a monthly classified record of the current medical literature of 
the world. Compiled by Dr. John S. Billings, U. S. A., and Dr. Robert Fletcher, 
M. R. C. S. Vol. VII. 

Indian Affairs, Annual Report of the Commissioner. Washington : Government 
Printer. 

Instructions anthropom^triques pour les voyageurs. By Dr. Paul Topinard. Fasc. ii, 
April, 18&5, and separate. Paris : G. Masson. 28 pp. 8vo. 

Instructions pour un mMecin d'hopital. By Dr. Bordier. [For the conduct of autop- 
sies.] M6m, Soc. d'anthrop., 2 ser., ii, 3. fasc, 1882. Paris: Masson. 

International Geographical Congress. Toulouse. Section of Anthropology, includ- 
ing somatology, demography, prehistory, ethnology, glossology, and instrumen- 
talities. M. E. Cartailhac in charge. 

Internationale Zeitschrift fiir allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft. F. Techmer. vol. u. 

Israel, S. — Eine Forschungsreise nordlich des Congo am Kwilu-Niadi. Berlin : 
Diimmler. 8vo. 

Jacobs, Joseph. — On the racial characteristics of modem Jews. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

XV, 2;M52. 

.Jahn, Max. — Der Emfluss der Kantischen Psychologic auf die Piidagogik als Wissen- 
schaft. Leipzig : Frohberg, 47 pp. 8vo. From N. Jahrb. f. Phil, u Padagogik. 

Jastrow, Joseph.— Composite photography. Science, Aug. 23. 

.Fentsch, H. — Die prahistorisehen Alterthiimer aus dem Stadt- undLandkreiseGuben. 
Guben, 1885. 

Jokst. Wtlhelm.— ITdi Afrika. Tllust. Koln. 8vo. [Review in Science, Aug. 7. ] 



858 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885 

Johns Hopkins University. Historical and political series. H. B. Adams, editor, 
Baltimore. 

Johnston, H. H. — The people of Eastern Equatorial Africa. J. Anthrop. Inst.,xv, 
3-15. 

Jones, George S. — Cave myths of American Indians. Mag. American Hist., xiii, 
.'')52-568. 

Journal Anthropological Institute. Vols. XIV and XV. London. 4 pts. 

JouvENCEL, M. DE. — Sur le cubage des cr&nes. Bull. Soc. d' anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 
4.30-4.57. 

J. J.— Racial characteristics of the Jews. Science, October 9. 

Kansas City Review, Kansas City, Mo., Theodore Case and Warren Watson, editors. 
Vol. IX, n. ser. i. Monthly. 

Keane, a. H. — Ethnology and philology of the European races. 'M pp. 8vo. 
London. 

The Lapps: Their origin, ethnical affinities, physical and mental character- 
istics, usages, present status, aud future prospects. J. Anthrop Inst., xv, 213- 
235. 

Kengla, L. A. — Stone mounds and graves in Hampshire Co., W. Va. Tr. Anthrop. 
Soc. Wash. Ill, 1-3. 

Kerry-Nicholls, J. H. — The origin, physical characteristics, and manners and cus- 
toms of the Maori race, &c. J. Anthrop. Inst., XV, 187-209. 

KiTTREDGE, George Lyman. — Arm pitting among the Greeks. Am. J. Philology, vi, 
151-170. 

Kleinpaul, Rdf. — Menschen- und Volkernamen. Leipzig: Reisner. xxx, 419pp. 8vo. 

KoLLMANN, J. — Beitriige zu der Rassen-anatomie der Indianer, Samojedeu und Aus- 
tralier. Verhandl. d. uaturf. Gesellsch. in Basel, 588-622. 

KOLLMANN. — Rassenanatomie der europaischen Menschenschadel. Tagebl. Versamml. 
deutsch. Naturf. u. Aerzte. Strassburg, viii, 206-210. 

Kosmos. Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Entwicklungslehre. Stuttgart. Editor Dr. 
B. Vetter. Second year, vols, i aud ii. 

Krauss, F. S. — Sitte und Branch der Siidslaven. Wieu : A. Holder, xxvi, 681 pp. 8vo. 

KtJHN, Ernst. — Herkunft und. Sprache der Bewohner Ceylons. Correspondenz-Blatt, 
XVI, 41-45. 

La Flesche, Francis. — Laws and terms of relationship among the Omahas. Paper 
before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 

Lagneau, H. — Situation d6mographique de la France, de croissance de la population 
de certains d^partements. Bull. Acad, de m^d. Par., 62-82. 

L.viDLAW, G. E. — Gambling among the Piegans. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 163. 

Lange, C. — Om Sindsbevaegelser. Et psykofyziologisk studee. Ki0benhaven : T. 
Lund. " 8vo. 

L.\nsdell, Henry. — Russian Central Asia, including Kuldja, Bokhara, Khiva, aud 
Merv. London : Low, Marston, xxxii-f-684, xvi+7,32 pp., illustr., portr., maps. 
8vo. N. Y. : Scribner [Rev. in Nature, July 20.] 

L'Archivio per la studio delle tradizioni populari. Quarterly publication at Palermo. 

T-AULANIE, F. — Sur revolution compar^e de la sesualitd dans I'individu et dans 
I'espfece. Compt. rend. Acad. d. sc, Par. ci, 393-395. 

Lau.monier, M. — La notion de race dans I'histoire. Rev. scient., xxxvi, 112-117. 

Laveleye, Emile de.— The State versus the Man ; a criticism of Herbert Spencei-, 
with a Rejoinder. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvii, 165-194. 

Lawson, a. C— Ancient rock inscriptions on the Lake of the Woods. Am. Natur- 
alist, XIX, 654-658. 

Lie CoNTE, Joseph.— Immortality in modern thought. Science, August 14. 

Ledieu, Alcius. — Boucher de Perthes, sa vie, ses ceuvres, sa correspondence. Abbe- 
ville : E. Caudron. 292 pp. 8vo. 



I 



ANTHROPOLOGY. SoO 

Lkdouble, a. — Des auorualiea du grand pectoral chez I'homrae et de lenr significa- 
tion an point de vne de I'antliropologie zoolooique. Rev. d'anthrop., viii, 99- 

106; 282-299 [copious references to authorities]. 
Le Mns<5ou. Revue internatiouale. Publico par la Soci6t6 des lettres et des sciences 

et L'Ath^nde oriental. Tome iv. Louvain: Peelers. 

Soci6t6 des sciences et des lettres. Lonvain. iv. 

Lk Plongeon, Augustus axd Alice. — The monuments of Mayax and their historical 

teachings. Prospectus, 1 page. 
Leshaft, p. — Anthropological measuring. Med. pedagog. Vestnik, St. Petersburg, 

I, 52-82. 
Le Sueur, W. D. — Evolution and the destiny of man. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvi, 456-468. 
Letourneau, Ch. — Sur I'anthropophagie des Peaux-Rouges. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. 

de Paris, xviii, 37-41. 
Lewis, T. H. — Some recently discovered effigy mounds. Science, No. 106, 3 pp. 
L'Heureux, Jean. — The Kekip-Sesoators, or ancient sacrificial stones of the north- 
west tribes of Canada. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 1G1-1G5. 
L'Homme. Journal illustrd des sciences anthropologiques. Paris. Vol. ii. 
LiLLiE, GoRDOX William (Pawnee Bill). — Sacred dances of the Pawnees. Am. 

Antiquarian, vii, 208-211. 
LiXDENSCHMiDT, L. — Review of Beck's Die Geschichte des Eisens. Arch. f. An- 

throi)., XV, Sup., 168-170. 
Lindner, Gustav, — Zum Studium der Kindersprache. Kosmos : Stuttgart. 
Lippert, Julius. — Deutsche Festbriiuche. Prag, 1884. 
Lissauer. — Uutersuchungen iiber die sagittalc Kriimmung des Schiidels bei den An- 

thropoiden und denverschiedenen Menschenrassen. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, Suppl., 

9-120 pp., 7 pi. 
LissNER. — Schwanzbildung beim Menschen. Arch. f. patholog. Anat.. Berlin, xcix, 

191. 
LOMBROSO. — L'^pilepsie et la folie morale cong6nitale. Archiv. di psichiat. e la sc. 

peuali, VI, fasc 1-2. 
LoRTET, A. — Causes des deformations que pr^sentent les cranes des Syi'o-Ph6niciens. 

Lyon. 18 pp. 
LoTTiN, Dr. — L'industrie actuelle du siles dans le d^partement de Loir-et-Cher. 

Mat6riaux, xix. 
Lowell, Percival. — The new palace at Seoul, Corea. Science, March 27. 

The Hong Sal Mun, or the Red Arrow Gate, Korea. Id., May 29. 

Lubbock, Sik John. — The intelligence of the dog. Nature, Nov. 12. 

On the customs of marriage and systems of relationship among the Australians. 

J. Anthrop. Inst., xiv, 292-300. 
LtJMSDEN, Sir Peter. — The tribes upon the Afghan Boundary. Communication to 

Roy. Geog. Soc, 22d June. Science, July 24. 
Lussana, V. — L' indice cer^brale. Arch. ital. perlemal. nerv,, Milano, xxii, 132-139. 
MacLean, J. P. — The great serpent mound. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 44-47. 
Magazine of American History. Bd. by Mrs. Martha J. Lamb, New York. 

Monthly. Vols, xiii and xiv. 
Magitot. — Essai sur les mutilations ethuiques. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

XVIII, 21-25. 
Mahly, E. — Znr Geographic und Ethnographie der Goldkiiste. Verhandl. d. naturf. 

Gesellsch. in Basel, 809-852, 1 map. 
Man, Edward Horace. — On the aboriginal inhabitants of the Andaman Islands. 

London : Triibner. [Rev. in Nature, September 3.] From J. Anthrop. Inst., XIV, 

253-272. 
Manouvrier, L. — Considerations sur la m^thode en dynamom6trie physio-psycholo- 

gique. Compt. rend. Soc. de bid., Paris, n, 117-124. 



860 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Manouvrier, L. — Divers modes tr^s simples de representations grapMqiies des sdries 
anthropologiques. L'Homme, ii. No. 4. 

Sur les Peaux-Rouges du Jardin d'acclimatation. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de 

Paris, XVIII, 306-346. 

Mantegazza, Paolo. — NuotI fatti in apoggio della Pangenesi di Darwin. Archivio 
per I'anthrop., xv, 1-7. 

Marchal, p. — La coloration des animaax. Rev. scient., Paris, xxxvi, 12-18. 

Marras, E. — La colonie de Natal. Bull. Soc. de g6ogr. de Marseilles, ix, 28-35. 

Marter, J. G. YA^. — Some evidences of prehistoric dentistry in Italy. Independent 
Practitioner, N. Y., 1-5. 

Martln, C. — Die Krankheiten im siidlichen Chile. Berlin. 8vo. 

Marvin, Charles. — The Russians at the gates of Herat. N. York: Scribners. x4- 
185 pp., illustr. [Reviewed in Science, May 1.] 

Mascart, M. E. — The physiology of colors. Pop. So. Montk., xxvii, 683-691. 

Mason, Otis T.— The Chaclacayo trephined skull. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vin, 410- 
412, plate. Anthropological notes in American Naturalist. 

Materiaux pour I'histoire primitive et naturelle de I'homme. Revue mensuelle il- 
lustr^e. xrxth volume, 3d series, vol. ii. 

Matthews, Washington. — Measuring the cubic capacity of skulls. Read before Na- 
tional Acad. Sc. [ Abstr. in Science, June 19. ] 

Mythic dry painting of the Navajos. Am. Naturalist, xrx, 931-940 ; also. Tr. 

Anthrop. Soc. Wash., in, 139-141. 

Navajo weavers, in. An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 371-391, plates xxxiv-xxxviii, 



figs. 42-59. 
— Thecubature of the skull. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., in, 171-172. 

The origin of the Utes. A Navajo myth. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 271-274. 



McAdams, William. — Exploration of recent Indian mounds in Dakota. Paper be- 
fore the A. A. A. S. , Ann Arbor meeting. 

Ancient pictographs in Illinois and Missouri. Id. 

Explorations in Great Cahokia Mound. Id. 

McGee, W J — Hereditary abnormality of sense-organs. Science, March 20. 

McLennan, Donald. — The patriarchal theory. Based on the papers of the late John 
Ferguson McLennan. London : Macmillan. xvi+365 pp. 8vo. [Reviewed by J. 
W. Powell in Science, April 24. ] 

Meignon, Victor.— From Paris to Pekin, over Siberian snows. London : Swan Sou- 
neuschein & Co. [Edited in English by Wm. Conn.] 

McMaster, J. B.— History of the people of the United States. New York. 8vo. 

Melville, G. W.— In the Lena Delta. Boston. 8vo. 

Mercer, H. C. — The Lenape stone, or the Indian and the mammoth. New York : 
Putnam. 

Merriam, a. C. — Notes on classical archaeology. Am. Antiquarian, vu. 

The dogs of ^sculapius. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 285-289. 

Merrill, Geo. P. — Supposed crude jade from Alaska. Science, March 13. 

Mestorf, Julia.— fitain onvr6 dans les 86pultures de I'dge du bronze. Materiaux, 
XIX, 19-22. 

Referate aus der skandinavischen Literatur. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, Sup., 127- 

151 ; also, Urgeschichte und Archaologie, 23-26. 

Meyer, A. B.— Album von PhiUppinen-Typen, 250 figs, 32 tables. Dresden : Hoff- 
mann. Fol. 

Ein weiterer Beitrag zur Nephritfrage. [From Mittheil. f. anthrop. Gesellsch., 

Wien.xv, 1-12.] Wien : Boehler. 4to. 
Meynert, Theodor.— Psychiatrie. Wien : Braumuller. xx, 288 pp., illustr. 8vo. 

[Reviewed in Science, March 27. ] 
Michel, Louise.— L6gendes et chantes de gestes des Canaques. Illustrations & 

vocabnlaries. Paris: K^va. 18mo. 



ANTHROl'OLOGY. 86*1 

Mies, Josef. — Beschreibung uud Anwendnng eines neuen krjinioinetrischen Instni- 

nientos. Beitr. Antlirop., &c., Baycrns. vi, pp. 8.3-108. Tables xxv, xxvi. 
MiLLSPAUGH, Charles F.— American medicinal plants. Issued in parts. 180 plates. 
Mind. A Quarterly Eeview of Psychology and Philosophy. London. Edited by 

George Groom Robertson. Vol. x. 
MiNOT, C. S. — Are contemporary phantasms of the dead to be explainod ]);utly as 

folk-lore. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 

The number habit. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 

Mitchell, C. P. — Notes on the Psychology of the Chimpanzee. Pop. Sc. Month., 

XXVI, 713. N. York. 
MoGYOROSi, A. J. — A new philological theory. Buffalo : Lockwood. 11 pp. 8vo. 
MoLiNARi, G. DE. — Les lois naturelles de I'^conomie politique. J. des ficonomistes. 

No. 6, juin. 
MoNCELON, M. — Un Canaque N^o-CalMonien. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 

:553. 
MoNDiERE, A. T. — Note sur quelques moulages d'organes g6nitaux des deux sexes pris 

par le Dr. Hyades sur les Fuegiens. Mission du Cape Horn. L'Homme, Paris, 

II, 111-114. 
MoNGEOLLE, PAUL. — Origiues et 6volution de la parure. Eev. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

VIII, 79-98. 
MoNTANO, J. — Sur une mission auxlles Philippines et en Malaisie (1879-1881). Arch. 

des miss, scient. Paris : Imprim. nat. 34 pi., 2 cart. 8vo. 
MoxTELius, Oscar. — Sur la chronologie de l'S,ge du Bronze. Sp^cialcment dans la 

Scandinavie. Matdriaux, xix, 3. ser., ii, 108-113. 
Morgan, J. be. — L'age de la pierre polie dans la Presqu'lle malaise. L'Homme, 494- 

498 ; Mat6riaux, xix, 48J-485. 

Negritos sur la Presqu'ile malaise. L'Homme: Paris, ii, 545-559. 

Morris, Charles. — The Relations of Mind and Matter. Am. Naturalist, xix, 533- 

541, 680-690, 754-766, 845-^857, 940-953, 1059-1076, 1150-1159. 
MoRTiLLET, G. DE. — Le pr(5curseur de I'homme. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

xviii, 139-1.50. [Discussion by the Marquis de Nadaillac] 

Le pr^historique. Antiquit6 de I'homme. 2. 6d. Paris. 670 pp., 65 figs. 12mo. 

Silex tertiaires iutentionellement taill6s. Mat6riaux, xix, 3. 6d., ii, 252-263. 

MtJLLER,FRiEDRiCH. — Ethnologischer Bilder-Atlas in colorirten Tafeln von A. Gerasch. 

No. 2. Amerikanische Indiauer. Wien. fol. 
Le Taensa n'a pas 6t6 forg6 de toutes pieces. Lettre^Lucien Adam. Paris: 

Maisonneuve. 45 pp. 
MiJLLER, J. H. — Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur: Urgeschichte und 

Archaologie. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, Sup., 1-23, 27-31, 32-35. 
Mt)LLER, SoPHUS. — Ursprung und erste Entwiekelung der europiiischen Bronzecul- 

tur. Braunschweig : Vieweg u. Sohn. [From Arch. f. Anthrop.] 
Murdoch, John. — Ethnography and natural history at Point Barrow. In P. H. 

Ray's report on International polar expedition to Point Barrow. 

Seal catching at Point Barrow. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., lU, 102-108. 

Sinew-backed bow of the Eskimo. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., iii, 168-171. 

The retrieving harpoon; an undescribed tyi)o of Eskimo weapon. Am. Nat- 
uralist, xix, 423-425. 
Murray, J. Clark. — A handbook of p.sychology. London : A. Gardner. 432 pp. 
Museo Nacional de Mexico, anales, vol. vii. 
Musso et Bergesio. — Circulation c6r6brale chez I'homme. Riv. sperimentalc di 

fren. e di med. legale, xi, fasc. 1. 
Nadaillac, Marquis de. — Les anciennes populations de la Colombie. Maferiaux, xix, 

49-61. [Rev. of Uricoechea, Saffray, and White respecting the Chibchas.] 

■ Les Barrows dans les lies Britanniques. Rev. d'anthrop., viii, 300-314, 

Les pipes et le tabac. Mat6riaux, xix, 3 86r,, ii, 497. 



862 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Nadaillac, Marquis de.— The flints of Thenay. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviu , 

144-148. 
L'authropophagie et les sacrifices humains. Rev. d. deux mondes, Nov. 15, pp. 

405-434. 
L'homme tertiaire. Paris : Masson. 55 p. [Rev. in Mat6ria.ux, xix, 3. s6r., ii, 



308.] 
Nature. A weekly illustrated journal of science. Vols. 31 and 32. London. 
Naue, Julius. — Die priihistorischeu Schwerter. Beitriige zurAntbrop., &c., Bayerus. 

VI, pp. 61-79. Tables XIII-XXIV. 
Navery, R. DE. — Les lies sauvages. Paris. 517 pp. 18mo. 
Negri, A. and G.— Des tissus pouri)res du P6rou. Rev. d'etbnog., iv, 269-271. 
Nehring, Dr. — Ueber die Abstaniuumg unserer Hausthiere. Vortrag, gebalten ini 

Klub der Laudwirtbe am 24. Miirz 1885. 
Neis, Paul.— Sur le Laos. Bull. Soc. d'autbrop. de Paris, xviii, 41-58. 
Neubauer, a. — Notes on the race-types of tbe Jews. J. Antbrop. Inst., xv, 17-23 

pp., 1 pi. Composite photography. 
New England Historical and Genealogical Register. Boston, xxxix, 
NiBLACK, Albert. — The Smithsonian anthropological collections for 1883. Tr. An- 

throp. Soc. Wash., 38-50. 
NicOLifi, Paul. — L'Homme il y a deux cent mille ans. Paris: Dentu. viii,75pp. 

12uio. 
NoRDENSKJOLD, Barox de. — Quelques traits des mceurs des Esquimaux ou Innuits. 

Rev. d'etbnog., iv, 277-278, from Tr, Soc. Sued. d'Anthrop., &c. 

Studien uud Forschungen, veranlasst durch meine Reisen im hohen Nordeu. 

200 figs., 8 tables & chart. Leipzig : Brockhaus. ix, 521 pp. 8vo. 
Ortega A. N. — Apuntes hist6ricos sobre la rodela Aztadoca, conserve en el Museo 

Nacional de Mexico. Bruselas. 1 pamph. 
Orthography for native names of places, system adopted by the Council of the Royal 

Geographical Society. Nature, July 2, 199. 
OssowsKi, G. — Monuments pr6historiques de I'aucienue Pologne. Cracovie. 47 pp., 

10 pi. [Translated into French by S. Zabarowski, Paris.] 
OviEDO Y BaSos, Jos. — Historia de la couquista y poblacion de la provincia de Vene- 
zuela. Vol. II. Madrid, xix, 402 pp. 8vo. 
PacKcVRD, A. S. — Notes on tlie Labrador Eskimo and their former range southward. 

Am. Naturalist, xix, 471-481 ; 553-559. 
Pansch, Ad. — Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur. — Anatomie. Arch. f. 

Antbrop., Sup., 35-46. 
Pardo de TaverAjT. H.— Contribuciou para el estudio de los antiguos alfabetos 

filipinos. Losana : Jaunin. Pamph. 8vo, from Ann.de I'Extr^me Orient, vii, 

204-210 ; 232-239. 
Parker, W. Kitchen.— On mammalian descent. London : Gritfin. 8vo. 
Paulitschke, Philipp.— Die Sudanlander. Freiburg. 8vo. 
Peabody Museum of Am. Archasology and Ethnology. Cambridge, Mass. : F. W. 

Putnam. 16. and 17. Annual Reports, ill. Svo. 
Peet, Stephen D.— Ancient Agricultural works in America. Am. Antiquarian, vn, 

13-38. 
Animal effigies and native symbolism compared. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 164- 

171 ; Threefold division of the race, id., 171-176; Darwinians in American Arch- 
aeology, td., 177-179. 

Game drives and hunting screens among the mounds. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 

82-104. 

Explorations among the emblematical mounds. Am. Antiquarian, iv, 298-301. 

Native American symbolism. Am. Antiquarian, vil, 315-234. Relics from 

Siberia and Japan. Id., 241-247, 



ANTHROPOLOGY. SfiS 

PEi^AFiEL, Antonio.— Nombres geogrdficos de Mexico. Catiilogo alfab6tico tie los 

nonibres de higar pertenecientes al idioma Naliuatl. Estudio Jeroglilico. Mexico : 

Oiicina Tip. ".^20 pp. 4to. 
Pkxck, Albrecht. — Verzeiclinissderanthropologischen Literatur: Viilkerkuade und 

Eeisen. Arcb. f. Authrop., xv, Sup., 46-120. 
PENmu.LOW, D. P. — Traditious of the Aiuos of uorlheru Japan. Cauadian Rec. of 

Sc, I, 'J28-236. 
Perkins, George H. — The stone ax in Vermont. Am. Naturalist, xix, 1143-1150. 
The stone ax in the Charaplaiu Valley. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann 

Arbor meeting. 

On certain singular stone implements from Vermont. Id. 



Petermann's Mittheilungen a. J. Perthes Geogr. Austalt. Gotha. 12 Hefte. 

PiiiLASTRE. — Le Yi : king, ou livre des changements de la dynastie des Tsheou. 
Annales du Mus6e Gnimet, viii. Paris : E. Leroux. [Kev. in Rev. d'ethuog., 
IV, 4.')7.] 

Philippon, G. — Conrs de zoologie. L'honmie et les animaux. 500 pp., 300 figs. 

Phillips, Henry, Jr. — Notes on European archoeology. Am. Antiquarian, vii. 

Pi^TREMENT, C. A.— Sur la port6e historique du mot ^gyptien, lieter. Bull. Soc. 
d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 151. 

PiETTE, Ed.— L'art pendant I'dge du renne. Lyon: Pitrat aln^. [Rev. in Mat6- 
riaux, XIX, 572-570- ] 

PiGORiNi, M.— Sur la coutume a Page udolithique de n'ensevelir que les os humains 
d6chaiues. Mat^riaux, xix, 299-303. 

Pilling. James Constantine.— Proof-sheets of a bibliography of the languages of 
the North American Indians. To collaborators. Washington: Govt. Print. 1135 
pp. [Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology, J. W. Powell, Director.] 

Ploss, H.— Geschichtliches und Ethnologisches iiber Knabenbeschneidung. Leipzig: 
C. S. liirschfeld. 32 pp. 8vo. [Trans. Deutsches Arch. f. Gesch. d. Med. u. med. 
Geog. VIII.] 

PooRE, Ben: Perley.— A descriptive catalogue of the Government publications of 
the United States, September 5, 1774-March 4, 1831. Compiled by order of Con- 
gress. Washington : Govt. Print. 1392 pp. 4to. 

PooRE, G. V. — On climate in its relation to health. Lancet, London, i, 172-174. 

POTAGOS, P. — Dix ann^es de voyages dans I'Asie Centrale et I'Afrique iSquatoriale. 
1. Paris. Bvo. 

Pottery, List of books and i>amphlets on, in science and art department, South Ken- 
sington Museum, London. 

Powell, J. W. — From savagery to barbarism. Annual address as president of the 
Anthropological Society of Washington. Transactions, in, 17;^19G. 

Inheritance among the ancient Arabs. Science, January 2. [Review of G. A. 

Wilkes' Das Matriarchat (Mutterrecht) bei den alten Araben. Leipzig: 
Schnltze. 72 pp. 8vo. ] 

On kinship and the tribe. On kinship and the clan. Tribal marriage law. 

On activital similarities, in. An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnology, xxxvui- 

LXXIV. 

Preface to in. An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnology. [Review of Papers in the vol- 
ume, report of operations of the bureau.] Pp. i-LXXiv. 

Third Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, 1881-'82. Washington : Govt. Print, [dated lb&4 on the title- 
page, 1883 in page in, and issued in 1885]. 606 pp., 200 figs. 8vo. [Contains 
papers by Powell, Thomas, Dall, Matthews, Dorsey, Holmes, and Stevenson, q. v. ] 

Prince, M. — The nature of mind and human automatism. Phila. 12mo. 

The question of a vital juinciple. Boston Med. & S. J., CXiii, 251-253. 

Protap Chant)RA Roy.— -The Mahabharata of Krishna-Dwaipayana Vyasa. Trans- 
lated into English prose. Published and distributed chiefly gratis. Sections 
CLXXXix-ccvii, pt. XIX, Calcutta, pp. 561-640. 



^Q4t SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

PUMPKiXY, Raphael. — Composite portraits of members of the Natiuual Academy of 
Sciences. Nature, June 25, 176. 

Putnam, F. W. — Man and the mastodon. Science, October 30. 

Ornaments made of pieces of human skulls, from a mound in Ohio. Paper be- 
fore the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 

Proper method of exploring mounds. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor 

meeting. 

Remarks on chipped-stone implements. Bull. Essex Inst., xv. Separate at 



Salem Press: Salem, Mass. 8 pp., 19 figs. 
Quatrefages, a. de. — L'Homme tertiaire et sa survivance. Mat6riaux, xrx, 3. s^r., 

II, 337-341. 

L'Homme tertiaire. Lyon [from Mat«5riaux]. 

L'Homme tertiaire. Thenay et les lies Andamans. Mat6riaux, xix, 3. s^r., Ii, 

97-107. 

Mus<5um d'histoire natiirella de Paris. Id., 276-280. 

Note sur l'6tat actuel des Maoris rest^s ind6pendants. Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 



97-119. 

Quick, E. R. — Stone mounds in Whitewater, Indiana. Bull. Brookville Soc. Nat. 
Hist., No. 1. 

Rabot, Ch. — Notes ethnographiques recueillies en Laponie. Rev. d'ethuog., iv, 23. 

Ranke, H., and Carl v. Voit. — Ueber den amerikanischen Zwerg Frank Flynn, 
genaunt General Mite. Arch, f. Anthrop., xvi. 229-239. 

Zur Craniologie der Kelten. Beitrjige zur Anthrop., &c., Bayeru.s, vi, pp. 109- 

121. 

Ranke, J. — Bronzeschiidel und Schiidelcubirungsmothoden. Corr.-Bliitt., xv, 9h. 

Report on recent anthropological literature before the general meeting of the 

German Anthropological Society. Corr.-Blatt., 79-87. 

Rapport sur une mission aux lies Philippines et en Malaisie, 1879-'81. Arch d. mis- 
sions sclent., Paris, 271-479, chart and plate. 

Rauber, a. — Homo sapiens ferus, oder Zustiinde der Verwilderten, &c. Leii)zig: 
Deraqke. 134 pp. 

Rautenberg, E. — Ausder vorgeschichtlichen Zeit. Hamburg: Kappmanu. 33 pp. 
Svo. 

Ray, p. H. — Report on the International Polar Expedition to Point Barrow, Alaska. 
Washington: Gov't Print. 695 pp., plates and figures. 

Rayleigh, Lord. — Civilization and eyesight. Science, September 4. From Nature, 
No. 798, p. 340. 

Reclus, Elie.— Earth and its inhabitants. Asia, iv. N. York. 8vo. 

-: Les primitifs ; etudes d'ethnologie compar^e. Paris. 394 pp. 12mo. 

ReIss, W., and A. Stijbel. — Das Todtenfeld von Ancon in Peru. 12.-13. Lfg. Ber- 
lin : Asher & Co. Folio. 

Report of the committee appointed for the purpose of investigating and publishing 
reports on the physical characters, languages, industrial and social condition of 
the northwestern tribes of the Dominion of Canada. British Association for 1885. 
Nature, Oct. 1. 

Revue d'anthropologie. Paris: P. Topinard. S6r. ii, vol. vii, 4 nrs. 

Revue d'ethnographie, Paris. Vol. iv, 4 nrs. 

Revue de I'histoire des religions. Annales du Mus^e Guimet. Nouv. 86r., xi. 

Revue scientifique. Paris : M. Charles Richet. Vols. 35 and 36. Weekly. 

Rey, Philippe. — Du poids des hemispheres c^r^braux d'aprfes le registre de Broca. 
Rev. d'anthrop., viii, 39-57. (See Le poids du cervelet, du bulbe et de la protu- 
berance. Id., vii.) 

Du poids des lobes c6rebraux (froutaux, occipitaux et pari^to-temporaux) 

d'apr&s le registre de Broca. Rev. d'anthrop., 3. s., viii, 385-396. 

Du poids des lobes selon le sexe, I'age d'apr^s les registres de Broca. Ann. m^d,- 

psych., 7. 8., II, 248-253. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 965 

Heynolds, Elmku. — Antiquities from Vendome, Seulis, aud the caves of France. Tr. 

Antluop. Soc. Wash., iii, C7. 
KiALLE, GiKARD DE. — Formose et ses habitants. Kev. d'anthrop., viii, 58-78, 247-281. 
KiCHTOFEX, F. VON. — China. Athis, Iste Abth., Iste Hiilfte. Berlin. 
liiEBECK, Emil. — Die Hiigelstiiuime von Chittagong. Berlin. 

The Cliittagoiig hill tribes. Result of a journey in 1882. Transl. by A. H. 

Keaue. Loudon: Asher. [Rev. in Nature, June 25.] 
RiE(jKR, C. — Eine exacte Methode der Craniographie. Jena: Fischer. 
RiEGER, K., audM. Tippel. — Esperimentelle Untersuchungen Uber die Willeusthiitig- 

keit. Jena : Fischer. Svo. 
KiXK, H. — The Eskimo dialects as serving to determine the relationship between the 

Eskimo tribes. J. Anthrop. Inst., XV, 239-245. 
l\<)BERTs, Charles. — Eyesight of savage and civilized people. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 

127. 
Romanes, G. J. — On the Darwinian Theory of Instinct. Proc. Roy. Inst. Gr. Br.,xi, 

131-146. 

RosNY, Leon de. — De la mort et des fundrailles chez les anciens Caraibes. Arch. 

Soc. Am. de France, n. s6r. m, 208-278. 
L'Am6rique 6tait connue des Chinois a l'6poque du deluge. Arch. Soc. Am. 

de France, s^r. ii, tome III, 191 ; 20(). 

l2!6ments d'ethnographie gen^rale. Paris : Maisonneuve. 1 vol. 18mo. 

L'interpretation des caracteres hi6ratiques de l'Am6rique Centrale. Rapport 

siir nil m^moire de M. A. Pousse. Arch. Soc. Am. de France, s^r. ii, iii, 118. 

Premieres notions d'ethnographie g^n^rale. Paris. 116 pp. 12mo. Vol. i 



Bibliotheque ethnographique. pub. sous la direction of L. de Rosny. 
RosNY, LtrciEN.— De la mort et des fun^railles chez les anciens Caraibes. Arch. Soc. 

Am. de France, 2. &6r.,iu, 268. 
Royal Asiatic Society. Journal n. s.,XVll. 

Rouse, M. L. — Music in speech. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 
Russiau Archaeological Congress in Odessa, 27 Aug. to 12 Sejit., 1884. Mittheil. 

anthrop. Gesellsch., Wien, xv, 12. 
Russian Geographical Society [Report] 1"584. [Journal], xx,pt. 6; xxi, 1 & 2. 
Rygh, O. — Antiquit6sNorv6giennes, arrang6eset ddcrites. Paris: E.Nilson; Boston: 

John Allyn. 
Norske Oldsager ordnede og folklarede. Christiauia : Lindberg. 2 «& 3 hefte. 

[Reviewed in Correspondenzblatt, xxi, 48.] 
Saglio, Ed. — Poup^es antiques. Mag. Pittoresque, Paris, an. LUi, pp. 12. 
Salmon, Ph. — La fabrication des pierres ^ feu en France. Paris: Hennuyer. 2 pi. 

Svo. 
Sanborn, J. W. — Customs, language, and legends of the Senecas. Paper before the 

A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 
Sanchez, J. — Linguistica de la Repiiblica Mesicana. Anal. Mus. nac. de M6x., v, 

279-280. 
Saporta, Marquis de.— Sur les descendants d'un Europ^eu blond et d'une muiatresse. 

Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 257-277. 
j>Ault-Dumesnil, G. — Note sur de nouvelles fouilles faites h Thenay, Mat6riaux, xix. 

3. ser., II, 24-249. 
Schaaffhausen, Hermann. — Anthropologische Studien. Bonn: A.Marcus, 685 pi>. 

Svo. 

Ou Schiller's skull and Kant's death-mask. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, 170-185. 

SCHADENBERG, A. — Die Bewohncr A-^on Siid Mindanao und der Insel Samal. Ztschr. 

f. Ethuol., Berlin, xvii, .^)8-89, I pi. 

Ur- und Mischrassen Philippinen. Cor.-Bliitt., xv, 109-112. 

SCHKFFLER, HERMAN. — Die Welt nach menschlicher Auffassuug. Leipzig. Svo. 
H. Mis. 15 55 



86() SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1885. 

SCHEIBE, B. — Kliniscbe Beobachtungeu iiber die Krankheiten Jjipans. Arch. f. pa- 

tholog. Anat., Berlin, xcix, 35(5-377. 
ISCHI0TZ, H. — Et selvregistrereude Perimeter. Norsk Mag. f. Laegevdensk. Christiania, 

XV, 329-333. 
SCHLEV and SOLEY.— Rescue of Greely. N. York. 8vo. 
SCHLOSSER, Max. — Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur in Beziehung zur 

Antbropologie rnit Euschluss der Fossilen iind recenten Landsaugetiiiere. Arch. 

f. Antbrop., xv. Sup., 129-156. 
Schmidt, Emil. — Die Anthropolog-ie in der Hauptstadt der Vereinigten Staaten. 

Separat-Abdruck aus "Kosmos." Bd. I, 380-393. 

Ueber alt- und ueu-Aegyptische Scbiidel. Leipzig. 64 pp. 8vo. 

SCHOLZ, Feiedrich. — Die Handscbrift tind ibre characteristiscben Merkmale. Bre- 
men : C. Rocco. 30 pp., 18 tables. 8vo. 

SCHRADER, O. — Sprackvergleichung und Urgeschichte. Jena : H. Costenoble, 

SCHULTZ, F. — Feticbism. [Transl. by J. Fitzgerald.] N. York: Fitzgerald. Hum- 
boldt Libr., 59, 112 pp. 8vo. 

Science. New York. "Vol. vi. 

Scorpion lore. Fop. So. Month., xxvi, 855. 

S^BILLOT, Paul. — Les maisons rustiques en Haute-Bretagne. Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 
148. 

Questionnaire des croyauces, 16gendes et superstitions de la mer. Bui. Soc. 

d'anthi-op. de Paris, xviii, 424-438. 

Seely, F. a. — The genesis of inventions. Tr. Anthiop. Soc. Wash., m, 147-168. 
Seignobos, Ch. — Histoire de la civilisation. Paris: Masson. Vol. i, 420 pp., 105 
figs. 

Sergi, G. — L'origine dei fenomeni psichichi e lore significazione biologica. Milauo. 

8vo. Vol. XL. Internat. Library of Science. 
Shufeldt, R. W. — Zuuian conceptions of animal forms as shown in pottery. Science, 

September 25. 
Simeon, Remi. — Lecture on the Nahuatl language. Arch, de la Soc. am^r. de France, 

pp. 1, 81, 179. 
SiMONiN, Amedee H. — Psychologie humaine appliqu^e, &c. Cinq conferences faites 

a la Salle des Capucines en 1S84. Paris: J. Michelet. 431 pp. 
Smith, Ermixnie A. — Artificial wampum. Science, Jan. 2. 

Customs and language of the Iroquois. J. Antbrop. Inst., xiv, ;M4-252. 

Who made belt wampum ? Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 

Significance of flora to the Iroquois. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor 

meeting. 
Smith, W. Robertson.— Mohammedan Mahdis. Proc. Roy. Inst. Gr. Brit., xi, 147. 
Smithsonian Institution. Annual report of 1883. [Anthropological papers edited by 

OtisT. Mason.] 

Progress of Anthropology in 1884. By Otis T. Mason. 

Australian Group Relations. By A. W. Howitt. 

Mounds of Sangamon County, Illinois. By James Wickersham. 

Mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois. By W. H. Adams. 

Ancient Relics at Dayton, Ohio. By Aug. A. Foerste. 

Mounds in Butler County, Ohio. By J. P. MacLean. 

Earth-work in Highland County, Ohio. By J. P. MacLean. 

Mounds in Berrien County, Georgia. By "Wm. J. Taylor. 

Mounds and Shell-heaps on west coast of Florida. By S. T. Walker. 

Stone mounds of Hamp.shire County, West Virginia. By L. A. Kengla. 

Remains in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. By John A. Ruth. 

Relics in Poughkeepsie, N. Y. By Henry Booth. 

Notes ou tlie Wanipanoug Indian.s. By Henry E. Chase. 

Antiquities from Ometepec, Nicaragua. By Charles C. Nutting. 

On the Phonology of fonr Siouan Languages. By J. Owen Dorsey. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 8G7 

Soci6t6 Aiii6ricaine de France, Archives de la. Nouvelle [ii] 86rie, Tome iii. [Tlio 

publications of the society are as follows: Actes: Tome i, 1863-186r); Tome ii, 

ld<;G-1873; Tome iii, 1874. 8vo. Archives: Premiere s6rie, ;i vols. ; seconde s6ric, 

Tome I, 1875; Tome ii, ; Tome m, 1885. 

S<)ci6t6 d'anthropologie de Bordeaux et du sud-ouest. Founded 17 December, 1883. 

[Publishes bulletins, 1. and 2. from January to June, 1884.] 
Soci6t6 d'anthropologie de Bruxelles. Bulletin. Vol. iii, 1884,1885. 
Soci6t6 d'anthropologie de Lyon. Pr6sidenco de M. Lacassagne. Vol. iv. 
Socidt^ d'anthropologie de Paris. Presidence de M. Hamy. Bulletins. Vol. xv. 
Soci6t6 d'anthropologie et de g^ographie de Stockholm. [Report of. in Mat6riaux, 

XIX, 3. s€t., u, 376-379.] 
Soci6t6 su^doise d'anthropologie et de geograj)hie. 
Stadfeldt. — Eine Bemerkuug iiber Dr. Badik's Eintheilung von Verbrechcrn in 

vierTypeu. Arch. f. patholog. Anat., Berlin, xcix, 391. 
Stage, G. G. — Om B0rns Vaegtforhold i det f^rste Leveaar. [Weights of infants in 

first j'ear of life. ] Kj0benhaven : Reitzel. 8vo. 
Steixitzer, Max. — L^eber die psychologischen Wirkungen der musikalischen For- 

men. MQnchen: T. Riedel. 139 pp. 
Stevniak. — Russia under the Tzars. Transl. by Wm. Westall. [Review in Science, 

Oct. 23.] 
Stevenson, James. — Illustrated Catalogue of Collections obtained from the Pueblos 

in 1881. ui. An. Rep. Bur. EthnoL, pp. 511-594. Plates xr-xxiv. 

Mythological painting of the Zunis. Tr. AnthroiJ. Soc. Wash., in, 143-144. 

Stieda L. — Urgeschichte nnd Archiiologie Riisslands. [Bibliography.] Arch. f. 

Anthrop., xv. Sup., 31, 32: Anthropologic, Ethnologic uud Reisen, 1882-83, 

id., 121-128. 
Stieda, L. — Der vi russische archiiologische Congress in Odessa, 1884. Arch. f. An- 
throp., XVI, 263-274. 
Verwendung des Glycerins zur Anfertigung von anatomischen Dauer-prapara- 

ten. From Archiv f. A. und Ph. Anatomische Abtheilung, 
Stirrup, Mark. — On the so-called worked flints from the Miocene beds of Thenay. 

J. Anthrop. Inst., xiv, 289. 
Stone, G. H. — The inscription rocks on the island of Monhegan. Science, Aug. 14. 
Strong, E. E. — The Caroline Islands. Science, Oct. 2. 

Sturtkvant, E. Lewis. —Indian corn and the Indian. Am. Naturalist, xix, 225-233. 
Kitchen garden esculents of American origin. Am. Natirralist, xix, 444-457; 

542-552. 
Swank, James M.— History of the manufacture of iron in all ages. Philad. : Pub. for 

the author. 
Tafani, Axessandro. — Delia presenza d' un terzo condilo occipitale nell' uomo. 

Archiv. per 1' antrop., xv, 35-72. 
Tarenetzky, H. — Beitrage zur Craniologie der grossrussischen Bevolkerung, etc. 

M6m. Acad. imp. d. sc. de St.-P6tersbourg, vii. 86rie, vol. xxxii. No. 13. 
Tautain, L. — Etudes critiques sur I'ethnologie et I'ethnographie des penples du bassin 

du Sdn6gal. Rev. d'ethnog., Paris, iv, 61; 137; 254. 
Tenchini, Lorenzo. — Cervolli di delinqnenti. (Superficie metopica.) Parma: L. 

Battel. 118 pp., 22 pi. 8vo. 
Ten Kate, H. F. C. — Notes ethnograxjhiques sur les Comanches. Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 

120-136. 

Reizen en onderzoekingenin Noord Amerika. Leiden : Brill, chart, 2 pi. 8vo. 

Sur les crAnes de Sagoa Santa. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 240. 

The Journal of Speculative Philosophy. Ed. Wm. T. Harris, New York. Vol. xix, 

quarterly. 
The New England Historical and Genealogical Register. Boston Vol. xxxix, quar- 
terly. 



868 SCIENTIFIC KECOKL) FOK 1885. 

Thomas, Cykus. — Ancient works iu lowii. Am. Antiquariuii, vii, :.'12-214 ; A iikhIcmi 

mound l)nrial,M., 24. 

Cberokc es iiroVmbly mound-builders. Tr. Anthrop. See. W;isli., iii, 24-30. 

Les signes miraeriques dans le Codex amdricain de Dresde. Arch. Soc. am. do 

France, ii. s<Sr., Ill, 207. 

Mound building tribes. Science, June 26. 

Notes on certain Maya and Mexican manusci'ipts. in. An. Kep. Bur. Ethuoi. 

pp. 1-C5, tigs. 1-10, plates i-iv. 

Palcuque visited by Cortez. Science, February 27. 

Silver from a Pennsylvania mound. Science. May 22. 

Stone graves, the work of the Indians. Third paper. Am. Antiquarian, vii, 

129-13G. 

The houses of the Mound-Builders. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. V^ash., iii, 1:3-20. 

Who were the Mound-Builders? Am. Antiquarian, vii, 0.5-74. Continued 



from March, 1884. 
Thomas, Oldfikld. — A collection of human skulls from Torres Straits. J. Antlu(>[). 

Inst., XIV, 328-343. 
Thompson, Alton H. — Recent Indian graves in Kansas. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 

Ill, 56-57. 
Heredity and development of the teeth. Dental Cosmos, Phila. xxvii, 513- 

520. 
Thomson, Joseph. — Through Masai Land. Boston: Beall. 8vo. 
Thruston, G. p. — The ancient races of America. Mag. American Hist., xiii, 4.57-4()3. 
Thulie, Dr. — La femme n'est ni infdrieure ni egale a I'homme. [Extr. de "La 

Femme, essaidesociologiephysiologique." Paris: Delahaye et Lecrosnier. ] Rev. 

d'anthrop., viii, 229-246. 
TlELE, C. P. — Manuel de I'histoire des religious. [Trans, from Dutch by JSlauiice 

Verues.] Paris: Leroux. 1 vol. 12mo. 
Topinard, Paul,. — Crane 6talon en bronze. Methode de cubage de Broca. Bull. Soc. 

d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 396. 

De la restitution de la taille par les os longs. Rev. d'anthrop., viii, 134-140. 

El6nients d'anthropologie g^nerale. Paris: Delahaye. 5 pis., 229 figs., 300 

tables, 1157 pj». Hvo. 
Instructions anthropom^triques pour les voyageurs. Kev. d'anthro])., 3. s^r., 

viii, 397-424. 
La nomenclature quinaire de I'Indice c6phalique. Rev. d'anthrop., viii, 210- 

228. 

L'anthropologie de Linn^e. Mat6riaux, 3. s^r., I, April. 

Le crane de bronze de Ranke et la m6thode de cubage de Broca. Rev. d'an- 
throp., VIII, 493-503. 
Proc6d6 de mensuration des os longs, dans le but de reconstituer hi taille. 



Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, 73-83. 
Tremlett, Rear-Adrairal. — Quadrilateral constructions near Caruac, iu Brittany. 

J. Anthrop. Inst. , XV, 170-183. [A list of Dolmens and Tumuli in Brittany is ap- 
pended.] 
Turner, W. W. — Scientific report on the voyage of the Challenger during the years 

1873-'76. Report on the human skeletons. I. The crania. Part xxix of Vol. 

X. Zoology. London, 1884. [Review iu Rev. d'anthrop. , viii, 339-345, by P. 

Topinard.] 
The index of the pelvic brim as a basis of classification. .7. Auat. &■ Physiol., 

XX, 125-143. [Rept. of Brit. Assoc, in Nature, Oct. 15. ] 
Tylor, E. B. — How the problems of American anthropology present themselves to 

the English mind. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, in, 81-95. 
Valentini, Ph. J. J. — Semi-lunar and oescent-shaped tools. Proc. Am. Autiquar. 

Soc, III, 449-474. 



AXTHROPOT>OGY. SOD 

Vo8S,A. — Der Bronzefiiiul von Callies iu i'oiiimeru iiii kouigl. Museum /ii H<>rliii. Ar- 

chiv f. Anthrop., xv. snppl., pp. 1-8, tables Xli, xiii. 
Vamb^ry, H. — Das Turkenvolk in seineu ethiiologiscbpn unci ethnoifiaphischeu 

Beziehungen. Leipzig: Brockhaus. xii+():58 pi>. 2pl.,illueti'. Hvo. 
Verguet, L. — Avosei on Sau-Christoval [in the S()louu)n group] et ses habitants. 

Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 193-232. Illustr. and vocabs. 
Verhaudliingen der anthropologischen Gesellschaft in Wieu. 
Veron, Eug£;ne. — Histoire naturelledes religiouLS. Paris : Doin, Marpon, &c. 2 vols. 

700 pp. 12mo. 
Verrier, E. — De quelques modes de I'accoucbement consacr^es par des monuments 

historiques. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, xviii, :;(i7. 
Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur, iu Arch. f. Anthrop., xv. suppl. Ll'^^S 

pages of closely printed matter, giving titles of works down to 1884, together with 

abstracts and reviews, frequently of an exhaustive character.] 
Victoria Institute. Journal of Transactions, Vols, xviii, xix. 
ViNiNG, E. P. — An inglorious Columbus, or evidence that Hwui Shan and a party of 

Budhist monks from Afghanistan discovered America iu the fifth century. New 

York. 8vo. 
ViRCHOW, R. — Die Verbreitung des blonden und des briinetten Typus in Mittell- 

europa. Sitzungsberichte akad. Wissensch., Berlin, v, 39. 
Nicobaresen, Schombengs und Andamanesen. Verhaudl. Berl. Gesellscb. f. 

Anthrop., 102-109, 1 pi. 
Opening address, fifteenth general meeting of the German Anthropological 

Society at Breslau. Corr.-Bljitt., xv, 65-76. 
Schema zn anthropologischen Aufnahmeu. Verhandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch. f. An- 



throp., 99-102. 
Wagner, E. — Hiigelgraber und Urnenfriedhofe in Baden. Karlsruhe: G. Braun. 7 

photoliths. 55 pp. 4to. 
Ward, Lester F.— Mind as a social factor. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., iii, 31-38. 
Moral and material progress contrasted. From Transai^tions Anthrop. Soc. 

Washington : Judd & Detweiler. 121-136 pp. 
Wagnon, a. — Trait6 d'arch^ologie compar^e. Paris : Rothschild. 173 pp., 16 pi. 8vo. 
Warren, William F. — Paradise found. The cradle of the human race at the North 

Pole. London : Samx)son Low & Co. 
Weisgerber; H. — L'Oued-Rir et ses habitans et sur quelques monuments du Sahara 

alg6rien. Rev. d'ethnog., iv, 417. 
Weismann, a. — Die Continnitiit des Keimplasmas als Grnndlage der Vererbuug. 

Jena : Fischer. 8vo. 
Welcker, Hermann. — Die Capacitat und die drei Hauptdurchmesser der Schiidel- 

kapsel bei den verschiedenen Natiouen. Archiv f. Anthrop., xvi, 1-lGO. [A work 

of enormous research and invaluable to the anthrojjologist.] 
Wektner, M.— Ueber die Stellung des iirztlichen Standes im Alterthuni [fr. Hun- 
garian]. Deutsches Arch. f. Gesch. d. Med., «fcc., Lpzg., viii, 173-207. 
WiEGER, G. — Die authropologische Sammlung des anatomischen Instituts der Uni- 

versitiit Breslau. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv. Suppl. 45 pp. 
WiLDEK, Marshall. — The progress of archeology and American history during 1884. 

N. E. Hist, and Genealog. Register, xxxix, April. 
Wilson, A. — The missing incisors in man : what are they ? Brit. J. Dent. Sc, Lond., 

xxix, 389-391. 
Wilson, D.— Anthropology; with an appendix on archaeology by E. B. Tylor. N. 

York : J. Fitzgerald. 15 pp. 8vo. 
WixcHELL, N. H. — A supposed natural alloy of copper and silver from the north shore 

of Lake Superior, iu Minnesota. Paper before A. A A. S., Ann Arbor meeting. 
WiTHiNGTON, C. F.— Consanguineous marriages ; their etlVct on offspring. Mass. Med. 

Soc, Boston, XIII, 453-454; and Boston Med. & S. J., cxiii, 172, 193. 



870 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 

Wonien'sAnthropological Society, Washington. Prospectus and constitntion. Darby, 
printer. 

WoRSAAE, J. J. A. — De I'organiaation des musses historico-arch^ologiqnes. Copen- 
Lague: Thiele. 8vo. 

De I'organisation des musses Iiistorico-arch^ologiques dans le Nord et ailleurs. 

Mat6riaux, xix, 433-436. Extra. M6m. See. Roy. Antiquar. du Nord, 1885, pi>. 
93-119. 

Wrz^sniowski. August. — Bericht aus der polnischen Literatnr tiber Anthropologie, 
Archiiologie und Ethnographie fiir die Jahre 1880, 1881, 1882. Arch. f. Anthrop., 
XV. sup., 152. 

Wyman, W. C. — Exhibition of copper implements. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann 
Arbor meeting. 

Year-book of the scientific and learned societies of Great Britain and Ireland. Lon- 
don : Griffith & Co. 

Zabarowski, M.— Les chiens quaternalres. Mat6riaux, xix, 3. s6r., 146-162; ii, 263- 
272. 

L'homme tertiaire. Rev. sclent., Paris, xxxvi, 426-433. 

Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie. Berlin. 17th year. 6 Hefte. 

Zkrnow, D. — Manual of anatomy of the human nervous system. Moscow: A. Lang. 
2. ed. 238 pp. 8vo. 

Zimmerman. — The degeneracy of races. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor 
meeting. 

ZiNCK, L. — The stone age in Africa. Communication to Roy. Soc. Northern Anti- 
quaries, Ap. 14. [Review in Science, May 15.] 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

OBSEEVATIONS Oif STONE CHIPPING.* 

By George Ercol Sellers, of Bowlesville, III. 

When a boy, living among mechanics, artists, and artisans, preparing 
for the profession of civil and mechanical engineer, it was natural that 
1 should be attracted to the studio with its adjoining workshop and 
taxidermic room of my mother's father, Charles Wilson Peale, and his 
sous. There was always something new to be learned there. He was 
a native of the i^rovince of Maryland, the son of one of the earliest 
Episcopal ministers who came from England and settled in that colony. 
He always took great interest in the history and incidents connected 
with the early settlement of Maryland and Virginia. He had a shelf 
in his library devoted to books and pamphlets relating thereto, many 
of which seemed to have been sent from Europe to him, for they bore 
inscriptions of "presented by," or "received from," my friend, Sir J. 
Banks or from Count Eumford, and others. Among them was a volume 
of autograph letters from his friend Thomas Jefferson on the same sub 
Ject. This shelf was particularly attractive to me, for it always led to 
reminiscences of the most interesting character from my grandfather. 
On one occasion I came across on this library shelf a thin bound volume 
of letters of John Smith from the Virginia colony. It was a London pub- 
lication, and (if my recollection is not at fault) comprised several pamph- 
lets bound together. A passage in one of these letters, in describing an 
Indian he had met with, referred to the making of stone implements. I 
have not seen the i)ublication since, and cannot after a lapse of more 
than sixty years quote from it, but will give the substance as impressed 
on my mind. He said in substance that the Indian carried with him a 
pouch filled with flakes of precious stones, and within his mantle, in a 
pocket made for the purpose, a small instrument made of bone or horn 
that he valued above all price and would not part with, and with it he 
deftly shaped arrow-points and spear-heads from or out of the stone 

* In the summer of 1885 Mr. Sellers visited Washington and called upon Dr. Rau, 
to whom he gave an account of his experiences in stone- chipping, but dwelling chiefly 
on what he had heard from Mr. Catlin concerning this subject. Dr. Rau, perceiving 
the importance of Mr. Sellers's remarks, induced him to prepare the present article. 
It will he seen that the Indians of this country resorted in stone-chipping to methods 
similar to those employed by the Mexicans, as related by Torquemada and Moto- 
linia. 

871 



^12 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

flakes. On calling my grandfather's attention to this, he said that 
although there was much truth in what at the time was written from 
the colonies, some things were highly colored and had to be sifted 
out or taken with caution, and he supposed the cutting of hard stone 
with bone or horn was one of these, and might be set down as one of 
Smith's yarns. I asked myself the question, What object could he 
have in inventing and telling itf There must be some foundation. At 
all events, it made an indelible impression on my mind. 

Most of the arrow-points found within my reach in Philadelphia, Dela- 
ware, and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania, were chipped from massive 
quartz, from the opaque white to semi-transparent and occasionally 
transparent. Once, in company with my early preceptors, Jacob Pearce 
and Isaiah Lukens, both well-known scientists, on a mineralogical ex- 
cursion, we came to a place where (judging from the quantities of flakes 
and chips) arrow-points had been made. After moot diligent se^irch 
only one perfect point was found, which is still in my possession, marked 
with ink "1818." There were many broken ones, showing the difficulty 
in working the material. Mr. Lukens collected a quantity of the best 
flakes to experiment with, and by the strokes of a light hammer roughed 
out one or two very rude imitations. No effort was made by pressure, 
which I cannot now understand, for at that time I was in the habit of 
breaking off points and trimming mineral specimens (likely to be injured 
by the jarring of a hammer stroke) by pressure with the hickory handle 
of my mineral hammer. 

Maj. S. H. Long, afterwards colonel, who in the latter part of his 
life succeeded Col. John J. Abert as head of the Topographical Depart- 
ment of the United States Army, whenever in Philadelphia, was a fre- 
quent visitor at my father's house; and, when preparing for his expedi- 
tion to the Kocky Mountains, in which my mother's youngest brother, 
Titian K. Peale, went as assistant naturalist, I saw him almost daily. 
The subject of flaking and forming arrow and spear-heads was one 
of frequent discussion. My grandfather, C. W. Peale, was at that time 
owner of the Philadelphia Museum, which had for that period a large 
collection of Indian curiosities, among them, many collected by Lewis 
and Clark on their northwestern expedition, — and to me the most inter- 
esting, was a box of stone implements in various stages of manufacture, 
evidently collected with the view of illustrating the process. They were 
never put on exhibition other than in the original package, the lid of the 
box only having been removed. Major Long's attention was called to 
these, and he expressed his belief that on his expedition he would learn 
the entire process, and on his return be able to explain everything in 
the Lewis and Clark collection. 

The expedition returned, and, as far as I know, without any positive 
information as to the process of making the flakes. Mr. Peale said he 
had seen squaws chipping flakes into small arrow-points, holding the 
flake in their left hand, grasped between a piece of bent leather, and 



7*J 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. <S7.: 

chipping off small flakes by pressure, using a small pointed bone in the 
right hand for that purpose. From this it was evident that John 
Smith's story was no myth. In my lifelong intimacy with Colonel Long 
the subject of the flaking operation has frequently been one of conversa- 
tion, on my regretting that more attention had not been paid to it on 
either of his expeditions. Knowing his pre-eminence as a civil engineer 
and his high attainments as a mechanic, I thought more reliable infor- 
mation would have been obtained by him and his party, composed as it 
was of such prominent men of science. He said that flakes prepared 
for points and other implements seemed to be an object of trade or 
commerce among the Indian tribes that he came in contact with; that 
there were but few places where chert or quartzite was found of suffi- 
cient hardness and close and even grain to flake well, and at those 
places there were men very expert at flaking. He had understood that 
it was mostly done by pressure, and rarely bj^ blows, but he had never 
witnessed the operation. He expressed his belief that it was an art 
fast being lost, for he had found among tribes who had never seen a 
white man since the advent of Lewis and Clark, wrought-iron arrow- 
points made in England by the Birmingham nailers, sent out as articles 
of trade by the fur companies, and that they were preferred to the 
stone points. 

My early acquaintance with Catliu,the artist, was in the shopof Catlin, 
musical instrument and model maker, of Philadelphia. There I knew 
him as a very expert and superior workman in wood and ivory. As a 
))ortrait painter he was not at that time successful. He painted strong 
likenesses, but they lacked life-like coloring. A delegation of Indians on 
their way to Washington gave him an opportunity to paint the likeness 
of one of the chiefs. This was exhibited in the Pennsylvania Academy 
of Fine Arts, and from its novelty attracted much attention ; in fact, it 
was so far a success as to bring him into notice. About this time I met 
him very frequently ; his conversation always drifted on to the great 
value and importance of preserving correct likenesses of the Indians, 
whom he believed to be fast passing away. We all know how well he 
lived up to this idea, devoting his life to the work of producing the col- 
lection of Indian portraits now in the IsTational Museum. 

On Mr. Catlin's return from his long sojourn among the Indians, be- 
lieving that, as an observing practical mechanic, nothing in the way of 
art among them would escape him, I took the first opportunity to see 
him. On my inquiry as to the mode in practice of splitting the stone 
into flakes for arrow and spear points, his reply was by a question 
characteristic of the man. He asked if I had forgotten Dr. Jones's 
axiom, "The least possible momentum is greater than the greatest pos- 
sible pressure.'''' This was in allusion to a lecture on mechanics we had 
together heard delivered by Dr. Thomas P. Jones (afterwiirds Commis- 
sioner of Patents). He then added, " That is well understood by the 
flake makers ;imong the Indians, but it will soon be among the lost 



874 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



arts, just as the nests of Birmiiigliam brass battered-ware kettles, the 
Yankee tin -ware, and glass whisky bottles have already almost totally 
destroyed their crude art of i)ottery making. The rifle is taking the 
I)lace of the bow and arrow. For boys' practice and for small game the 
iron points got from the fur traders are preferred to stone. A common 
jack-knife is worth to them more than all the flint knives and saws ever 
made." 

After expressing himself in this manner he went on to explain what 
he had seen. He considered jnaking flakes much more of an art than 
the shaping them into arrow or spear points, for a thorough knowledge 
of the nature of the stone to be flaked was essential, as a slight dififer- 
ence in its quality necessitated a totally different mode of treatment. 
The principal source of supply for what he termed home-made flakes 
was the coarse gravel bars of the rivers, where large pebbles are found; 
those most easily worked into flakes for small arrow-points were chalce- 
dony, jasper, and agate. Most of the tribes had men who were expert at 
flaking, and who could decide at sight the best mode of working. Some 
of these pebbles would split into tolerably good flakes by quick and 
sharp blows striking on the same point ; others would break by a cross 
fracture into two or more pieces ; these were preferred, as good flakes 
could be split from their clean fractured surface by what Mr. Catlin 
called impulsive pressure, the tool used being a shaft or stick of between 
2 and 3 inches diameter, varying in length from 30 inches to 4 feet, ac- 
cording to the manner of using them. These shafts were 
pointed with bone or buck-horn, inserted in the working 
end as represented in Fig. 1, bound with sinews, or raw- 
hide thongs, to prevent splitting. For some kinds of work 
the bone or horn tips were scraped to a rather blunt point, 
others with a slightly rounded end of about one-half inch 
in diameter. He described various ways of holding the 
stone while the pressure was being applied. A water- 
worn pebble broken transversely was commonly held by 
being sufficiently imbedded in hard earth to prevent its 
slipping when held by the foot as the pressure was applied. 
Large blocks of obsidian or any easily flaked stones were 
held between the feet of the operator while sitting on the 
ground, the impulsive pressure being given to the tool 
grasped in both hands, a cross-piece on the upper end 
resting against his chest, the bone end against the stone 
in a slight indentation, previously prepared, to give the 
proper angle and to prevent slipping. 

In some cases the stone operated on was secured be- 
tween two pieces or strips of wood like the jaws of a vise, 
bound together by cords or thongs of rawhide ; on these strips the oper- 
ator would stand as he applied the pressure of his weight by impulse. 
The best flakes, outside of the home-made, were a subject of commerce, 




Fig. 1. 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 



875 



and came from certain localities where the chert of the best quality was 
<iuarried in sheets or blocks, as it occurs in almost continuous seams in 
the intercalated limestonesof theCoal JMeasures. These seamsare mostly 
cracked or broken into blocks, that show the nature of the cross fracture, 
which is taken advantage of by the operators, who seemed to have re- 
iluced the art of tiaking to almost an absolute science, with division of 
labor; one set of men being expert in quarrying and selecting the stone, 
others in preparing the blocks for the tiaker. This was done when the 
blocks were nearly right-angled at the corners, by striking off the corner 
where the flaking was to commence, and, with a properly directed blow 
with a hard pebble stone, knock off" of the upper edge a small flake, mak- 
ing a seat for the point of the flaking tool. Sometimes these blows were 
carried entirely across the front upper edge of the block, making a groove 
entirely across the edge, when the first row of flakes have been thrown 
off". It is the work of this operator to prepare seats for a second row, 
and so on. What was meant by almost absolute science was a knowledge 
and skill that would give the proper direction to the 
pressure to throw off" the kind of flake required. Fig. 
2 represents, as nearly as I recollect, the rude sketches 
made of the flaking tool used to throw oft' massive flakes, 
when a sudden percussive pressure was required in ad- 
dition to the imi)ulsive pressure the man could give. 
The staff"s of these flaking tools were selected from young 
hard-wood saplings of vigorous growth. A lower branch 
was utilized, as shown at a in Fig. 2, to form the crotch 
in which the blow was struck. Another branch on the 
0})posite side, a, was used to secure a heavy stone to 
give weight and increase the pressure. When the stone 
to be flaked was firmly held, the iioint adjusted to give 
the pressure in the required direction, the staff' firmly 
grasi)ed, the upper end against the chest of the oper- 
ator, he would throw his weight on it in successive 
thrusts, and if the flake did not fly off', a man standing- 
opposite would simultaneously with the thrust give a 
sharp blow with a heavy club represented in cross- 
section b in Fig. 2, it being so shaped that its force is 
downward close in the crotch. It has been represented 
to me that a single blow rarely failed to throw off the 
flake, frequently the entire depth of the block of stone, 
sometimes as much as 10 or 12 inches. The tooth or 
tusk of the walrus was highly prized for tips of the flakers. 

What I have thus far written is at second hand, being merely recollec- 
tions of conversations at various times with the parties I have referred 
to, and more recently with a man who for over thirty years had been 
connected with a fur comi)any, and who had lived most of that time 
among the Indians, and much of it, as a trapper. 




Fig. 2. 



87^ PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

What I now propose is to give some of my experimental practice in 
flaking and working flint (chert), and (from a pnrely ruechanical stand- 
point) some conclusions drawn from a pretty extensive exannnatiou of 
the waste and refuse as well as finished and partly finished work left in 
the aboriginal flint workshops. 

There are many places along the banks of the Ohio River and its 
tributaries that are not subject to the annual overflow, but are still 
below the occasional great floods, where the flaking process has been 
extensively carried on, and where cores and waste chips are abundant. 
At one of these places, on the Kentucky side of the river, I found a num- 
ber of chert blocks, as when first brought from the quarry, from which 
no regular flakes had been split; some had a single corner broken otF as 
a starting point. On the sharp, right-angled edge of several, I found the 
indentations left by small flakes, having been knocked off evidently by 
blows, as described by Catlin, as a preparation for seating the flaking 
tool. Most of the localities referred to are now under cultivation, but 
before being cleared of timber and subjected to the plow, no surface relics 
were found; but on the caving and wearing away of the river banks, 
as the light earth washed away, many spear and arrow-heads and other 
stone relics were left on shore. After the land had been cleared and 
the plow had loosened the soil, one of the great floods that occur at 
intervals of some fifteen or twenty year?, would wash away the loose 
soil, leaving the great flint workshops exposed. It is from the stores 
of material left, the cores or nuclei thrown aside, caches of finished and 
unfinished implements and flakes, the tools and wastage, vast accu- 
mulations of splints, &c., that we can, on critical examination, di-aw 
tolerably correct ideas of the mode of working pursued. 

One of these great flaking banks or workshops is exposed on the 
northern bank of the Saline River at its first rock "ripple," about 3 miles 
above its junction with the Ohio, the general course of the Saline being 
from the northwest to the southeast. Above the "ripple" the stream is 
only navigable during high water of the Ohio. On its southern side 
are ranges of hills from its mouth to its source, ranging between 300 
feet and 400 feet in height, and on the divide between the west fork of 
the Saline and Eagle Creek they rise to a height of over 800 feet. The 
ridge is broken through by the valleys of small tributaries ; the spurs 
from the ridge at places terminating in rock bluffs close to the river, at 
others leaving a narrow bottom. On the northern side of the stream 
the hills proper commence about 4 miles above the mouth, leaving a 
wider valley or bottom on that side; the low bottom lands of the Ohio 
extend nearly to the ripple, where commences what is termed the second 
bottom lands of the Ohio, which rise rather abruptly, extending with 
the river by its windings at varying distance from it. It is on this 
ridge where it is intersected by the Saline that the coal company made 
the terminus of their railroad and shipping port of coal. 

On my first visit, in the fall of 1853, this was in dense forests with 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. S77 

the exceptip4i of a narrow strij) along the bank of the Saline, which had 
been cleared for railroad coal duuij), saw-mill, shoi)s, and dwellings. 
The most of the cleared portion was a range of low sepulchral mounds 
crowded together. In cutting into them for foundations, small sized stone 
cists were exposed, none over 4 feet in length, with a single exception; 
this was (in excavating foundations for saw mill boiler in the side ot 
the largest of the mounds,) a skeleton at full length, surrounded by and 
covered with thin sandstone slabs, much as the small cists were formed. 
With this skeleton were found two small clay pots, some shell beads, 
a flint gun-lock, barrel, and metal trimmings of an old English musket, 
the stock BO decayed that it fell to pieces when being taken out — no 
doubt a recent surface burial ; in fact, human bones were found near 
the surface of all these mounds. The small cists over which they were 
originally raised contained nothing but fragments of bones, teeth, and 
occasionally a stone celt and a few flaked implements. The first in- 
dication of relics on what has proved to be a great stone implement 
manufactory was in sinking a cistern on the ridge about 200 yards from 
the riv^r. This went through a mass of flint chips. By the year 1859 
the little clearing around the house where the cistern was sunk had 
joined with the cleared strip on the river banks, making in all a clearing 
of some 25 acres. Heavy rains after the first plowing exposed some few 
specimens of spear and arrow points ; the next i)lowing, a still greater 
number. But it was not until the great flood of the winter of 1862 and 
1863 that overflowed this ridge some 3 or 4 feet, with a rapid current, 
that the portion under cultivation north of the mounds on the river bank 
was denuded, exposing over 6 acres of what at first appeared to be a mass 
of chips or stone rubbish ; but amongst it were found many hammer 
stones, celts, grooved axes, cores, flakes, almost innumerable scrapers, 
and other implements, pieces of broken, much-decayed bone, but no per- 
fect bone implements, many tines of the buck or stag, all of which bore 
evidence of having been scraped to a point. On exposure to the air they 
fell to pieces. Among this waste it was rare to find fragments of rude 
pottery, though they abound among the mounds near the river bank, 
and further north on the same ridge, wliere burnt sandstones, black earth 
full of fragments of shells and bone, sliow the site of a settlement — the 
field being nothing but a workshop. The great August flood of 1875, 
and the winter floods of 1881, 1882, and 1883 continued the work of de- 
nudation until the ground became unfit for cultivation, and was aban 
doned. The greatest number of cores, scattered flakes, finished and 
unfinished implements, are of the chert, from a depression in a ridge 3 
miles to the south-east, where there is evidence ot large quantities hav- 
ing been quarried. I have found a few (;ores of the white chert from Mis- 
souri, and the red and yellow jasi)er of Kentucky and Tennessee; but 
the flakes of these have mostly been found in nests or small caches, 
many of which have been exposed, and in every case the flakes they 
contained were more or less worked on their edges, whereas the flak<is 



878 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

from the neighborhood chert preserved their sharp edges as when s])lit 
from the mass. These cache specimens with their worked serrated 
edges would, if found singly, be classed as saws or cutting implements. 
But here, where found in mass, evidently brought from a distance, to 
a place where harder chert of a much better character for cutting im- 
plements abound, they tell a different story, l^o two are exactly alike, 
yet the work on all is of the same character, and evidently done for the 
same object. To one discovering that object, they tell the story clearly, 
as well as the mode of working, written on stone, and better than it can 
now be told either by writing or illustrations. 

To make myself understood I must have recourse to sketches, and 
then will most probably fail to make it as clear to the general reader 
as these stone flakes do to me. Let us first look at a flake as detached 
from the mass, and study its nature, presuming it to have been flaked 
from a stone that by a hammer stroke would break with a fine-grain 
conchoidal fracture. Fig. 3 is a plan view of the outer or high side 

(Half size.) 



Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fig. 5. 

of an ordinary flake intended for a spear or arrow-head ; the shape 
of this high side depending on the lines of fracture of the previous flak- 
ing. Fig. 4 is a section through the center of the flake on the dotted 
line a a', showing its flat side and sharp edges. Fig. 5 an edge view, 
showing at its njjper end the angle of the recess formed, and against 
which the point of the flaker had been pressed to throw off' the flake ; 
dotted lines in the cross-section Fig. 4 show the form of an arrow-head 
on the line a a' that the flake will work into. The form of the head is 
given by dotted lines in Fig. 3. From these it will be seen that the por- 
tion of the flake to be chipped away (and also the greatest portion of 
the chipping to be done) is from the flat side. 

The man who makes the flake can at a glance see what it will best 
produce. His flakes are for transportation ; bulk and weight are seri- 
ous considerations. His practical eye tells him how to reduce them into 
the best merchantable form ; and the greater number of the Hakes found 
in the caches alluded to have been sp worked, and always from the flat 
side of the flake. This could not be accidental. By referring to the axis 
line in section Fig. 4, the amount of chipping from the flat side that 



OBSERVATIONS ON ^TONE-CHIPPING. Xld 

has to be done will be seen. To attempt to do this and to throw otit" loug 
chips from the sharp edge of the flake would prove a failure, as its 
sharp edge would either crumble away or it would cut aud injure the 
point of the bone flaker without throwing ofi" the desired chip or fluke. 
Experience has taught the operator the best shape of edge to apply the 
pressure to accomplish his object, and it has also taught him how to 
reach it in the simplest possible way. A spoon-shaped hollow on the 
top of a flattened log, or even a gutter or groove cut in it, furnishes the 
means of holding the flake firmly, the raised or high side placed in the 
hollow, the flat side up ; with the ends of the fingers of his left hand 
pressed on it he holds it firmly, while with his right hiind a downward 
pressure is given by the flaking tool which breaks off chips with a fract- 
ure of about 45 degrees from the flat surface, leaving the edge in the 
best possible shape for future work, aud that is the condition of these 
cache flakes as they are found. 

In old times, before the invention and introduction of planing aud 
shaping machines to work metals, the first and most important lessou 
taught to the machinist's apprentice was the use of the hand-hammer 
and cold-chisel. When an outer shell was to be removed from a metal 
casting and its surface left in condition to be finished by file or scraper, 
the smoothness and regularity of that surface was essential, not only 
for economy in working, but accuracy of the file finish. The apprentice 
was taught to hold his cold-chisel and so direct the strokes of his ham- 
mer that when a chip was started the chisel should hold to it, and not 
be allowed to cut too deep or slip and fly out, leaving a shape that is 
difficult to start a fresh cut without leaving ridges or cutting deeper, 
in either case causing additional labor for the finisher. 

To a practical mechanic the examination of such a flint workshop as 
I have described — its waste chips to the partly worked flakes, the roughed 
out blocks, and the finished implements — reveal a line of workmanship 
so clear that it can be followed to the production of the same results. 

The handling of the tool and flake to form an arrow-point is as much 
an act requiring exactness and precision as the handling the cold-chisel 
and hammer is to the machinist. The first chip thrown off' is analogous 
to the first starting work of the cold-chisel ; it is the text that must be 
adhered to to the end of the chapter. Holding the flake in such position 
that commencing at what is intended for the point of the intended work, 
the pressure with the fUkking point is brought to bear close to the edge 
of the 45 degrees angle and at right angles to it ; the result is a flake 
thrown off inclining towards the stem end of the arrow-point. In sec- 
tional sketch Fig. 4 from a to a' shows the 45 degrees angle left bj' the 
first rough shaping from c to c' the direction of the first chip thrown oft'. 
The seat left by this chip when thrown off' is concave on the edge of the 
flake, the advance corner of which is the seating point for the tool to 
throw off the next chip, which does not entirely obliterate the concave 
of the first, and the following chij) leaves a serrated edge, the chij)s or 



8 so PAPEKS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

flakes beiug generally parallel, which is the object of a good workman 
to make them. When the flat side by chipping has been reduced to 
nearly therequh^ed form, its edges are in the best possible shape for chip- 
ping the opposite or high side, then by alternate working from side to 
side the point is finished, either leaving it with serrated edges or by after 
delicate work throwing oft" the points, leaving a smooth, sharp edge. 
The indentations at the base either for barbs or for thongs to secure 
the point to its shaft are made by direct down pressure of a sharp point 
working alternately from side to side, the arrow-point being held firmly 
on its flat face. From the narrowness of the cuts in some of the speci- 
mens, and the thickness of the stone where they terminate, I have in- 
clined to the belief that at the period they were made, the aborigines had 
something stronger than bone to operate with, as I have never been able 
to imitate some of their deep, heavy cuts with it; but I have succeeded 
by using a copper point, which possesses all the properties of the bone, 
in holding to its work without slipping and has the strength for direct 
thrust required. A soft iron or thoroughly annealed steel point answers 
even a better purpose. As yet no copper has been found on this flaking 
ground, though a few copper beads and remnants of what appear to 
have been ornaments have been taken from mounds on the ridges of the 
Saline, which I think is evidence that they had that metal at the earliest 
time work was done on this flaking bank. 

Bryce Wright in his description of the Scandinavian knives or dag- 
gers refers to them as being most beautifully dentilled with parallel 
flaking and serrated edges. He says : " These knives or lauces are true 
marvels of pre-historic art, and show an amount of skill and workman- 
ship which cannot be imitated in the i)resent age, the art of fashioning 
them having been entirely lost." Sir John Lubbock, on page 104 of 
"Prehistoric Times," says: "The crimping along the edge of the handle 
is very curious." As to parallel tiakings with serrated edge, I have 
endeavored to show (from a mechanical standpoint) that the refuse 
of the great flint quarries points to a mode of working that must leave 
the dentilled markings parallel, and the edges worked from, serrated. 
What Lubbock speaks of as curious crimping on the edge of the han- 
dles IS but the natural result of the mode of working 1 have exam- 
ined these Scandinavian dagger handles, and find the same appearance 
on the blades of large-size broken piercers, numbers of which I have 
found among the rubbish, picked up, examined, and thrown away as im- 
perfect specimens. Some of them have a spread, flat end or handle of 
over li inch, with nearly square blades, evidently having been worked 
by down pressure from the edges corresponding to the spread end, these 
45 degrees flakes meeting form angles and produce the square. The 
interlocking of the flakes at their meeting causes the crimped appear- 
ance, in some cases not unlike a row of beads, very beautiful, but not 
made with any such view, but simply the natural result of the mode of 
working. 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 881 

Here also are found massive flakes or chips of flue-grained quartzite, 
that teach another lesson to a seeking practical mechanic, nosing about 
among the accumulated refuse. These flakes are often rough on one 
face, showing them to be an outside scale from the stone; occasionally, 
fragments of large flat implements that have been classed as agricult- 
ural (hoes or spades). These fragments have not been broken by want 
of skill in the workmen, but from undiscovered seams in the stone that 
did not show until the outer surface was thrown ofl'. Xone of these fi'ag- 
ments show any sign of use ; in fact, some of them haA e not been wrought 
to an edge. I have several specimens of hoes from the same ridge be- 
yond the settlement where it would naturally be cultivated, that from 
their highly polished working ends show long use. The lesson is that 
they are not made from great flakes, but rather represent the core from 
which flakes have been thrown off". Finished hoes and spades frequently 
have portions of natural stone partings that have not been worked off, 
and show them to have been worked from thin slabs. These slabs are 
a metamorphic thin bedded sandstone, belonging to what our State 
geologist, Prof. A. H. Worthen, calls the Chester group. They occur 
near the Saline, about 8 miles above the flaking ground, in an upheaval 
that has brought them to the surface with the upturned edges of the 
carboniferous limestone through which the salt springs flow. This is 
probably the source whence this quartzite was obtained, as slabs from 1 
inch to 2 inches thick are found there ; but there are many other locations 
stretching across Southern Illinois to the Mississippi Eiver where they 
also occur. 

It is the large agricultural implements that I refer to as having been 
made from quartzite slabs, some of which are as much as 16 inches long 
by 6 inches and 7 inches wide at the spade-blade end. There are many 
smaller specimens of the same form and character that have been regu- 
larly flaked from chert, white waxy quartz, yellow and brown jasper, 
that do not exceed 6 or 7 inches in length, their working ends highly 
polished by long use in digging. It is the large hoes and spades flaked 
from quartzite slabs that to me are evidence of a much higher degree 
of intelligence and skill than the most highly-finished spear and arrow 
points evince. Take an edge view of one of these large spades, and 
observe how accurately straight and free from wind tTie edge has been 
carried entirely around the implement, the flattening of one side and 
rounding the other ; then observe that the long flat very slightly 
depressed flakes have been thrown off at right angles to the edge, even 
to those curving around its digging or cutting end, which appear to 
have radiated from a common center. If these flakes have been thrown 
ofl" by blows so struck and directed as to preserve the cleanly lined 
edges, as the operator had carried them in his mind, a skill must have 
been acquired that we cannot approach. 

In 'all the experiments that I have tried with a hammer, whether of 
stone, steel, soft iron, or copper, they have failed to produce the desired 
H. Mis. 15 56 



882 



PAPEKS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



result; the seat of the flake is more conchoidal, shorter and deeper de- 
pressed, whereas the direct percussive pressure throws off the shape of 
flake that we find has been done in making these spades. If this mode 
has been resorted to, it necessarily required considerable ingenuity in 
devices for holding the stone slab firmly, while the pressure was being- 
applied in the right direction. The wooden clamp described by Catlin 
may have been used. The simplest device that occurs to me that will 
answer the purpose is a block of wood planted in the ground, with its 
end grain up, cut on top into stej)S, as represented in sketch, Fig. 6, the 




Fig. 6. 

lower step having grooves parallel with the rise of the upper step ; in 
one of these grooves the edge of the implement is placed, its back rest- 
ing against the edge of the higher step, as represented by the dotted 
lines showing the form of a spade. When in this position, presenting 
the proper angle to the operator, a man holds it firmly while another 
applies the pressure. A lower step, e, with the back edge of top are 
hollowed out to receive the work, while its lower end rests in an inden- 
tation in the lower step. In this manner a spade can be firmly held 
while its cutting end is being flaked. I do not present this as a mode 
that was practiced, but as a device that answers the purpose, and I 
judge to be within the capacity of the ancient flint-workers, of whom 
there is nothing left but their chips and finished work. 

Let any one experiment with a bone point in chipping flint; he will 
soon discover the value of a dry bone, a bone free from grease that will 
hold to its work without slipping, a bone with sufficient hardness to 
resist abrasion, a bone of strength to bear the pressure, and he will 
value such a j^ointed bone, and will understand why, with such a bone, 
John Smith's ancient arrow-point maker '•^valued Ms above price, and 
would not part with ity I have been informed that the modern Indians 
free their flaking bones from grease by burning them in moistened clay 
and wood ashes, not unlike the common practice of our housewives to 
remove grease spots from their kitchen floors. 

The hunter or trapper described to me a mode still in practice among 
the remote Indians of making flakes by lever pressure combined with- 
percussion, that is more philosophical and a better mechanical arrange- 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING> 



883 



iiMMit than by the use of a flaking-staff, as described by Catlin. Figure 
7 shows the mauuer of utiliziug a standing tree with spreading roots 




Fig. 7. 

for this i)urpose ; a flattened root makes a firm seat for the stone, a 
notch cut into the body of a tree the fulcrum for the lever; either a 
pointed stick is placed on the point of the stone where the flake is to 
be split from it, its upper end resting against the under side of the 
lever, or a bone or horn point let into and secured to the lever takes 
the place of this stick. When the pressure is brought to bear, by the 
weight of the operation, on the long end of the lever, a second man 
with a stone, mall, or heavy club strikes a blow on the upper side of 
the lever, directly over the pointed stick or horn-point, and the flake is 
thrown off. 

Lubbock, in " Prehistoric Times," illustrated the Eskimo scraper as 
used at the j^resent time in preparing skins. When we consider the 
close proximity' of the flint workshop to the great salt licks on the Sa- 
line River, the flowing salt springs, the deeply worn buftalo paths still 
to be seen after having been subject to the destructive work of cultiva- 
tion by the plow for more than a generation, where skins by the thou- 
sands must have been dressed, it is not surprising that the many chert 
flakes that have been split off with too great a curvature of their flat 
side in their length to admit of being chipped into arrow-points should 
have been utilized for scrapers, many of which are the exact /ac simile . 
of what Lubbock has illustrated as the Eskimo and others of the Euro- 
pean type, of which he says : 

" It is curious, that while these spoon-shaped scrapers are so common , 
in Europe, they are very rare, if indeed they occur at all, in Xorth Am- 
erica south of the Eskimo region." 

1 think it most probable from their close resemblance to refuse flakes 
and chips they were overlooked by early collectors. In the great game . 
districts of the West, both in flint workshops and among the waste of • 
Indian settlements, they are much more abundant than arrow-heads, 
or any other implements, with the exception of the small flint knives,. 



884 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



It is also iu these game districts that what is known as the " bevel- 
edge arrow- points " are found, that have been a subject of uauch discus- 
sion as to their use. Foster says of the one he has illustrated : " The 
specimen represented is from Professor Cox's collection, and the two edges 
are symmetrically beveled, as if to give it a rotary motion." I have met 
many others that accept this idea, unmindful of the fact that a ship is 
not steered at its stem, but by the rudder, at its stern, and an arrow is 
not directed or held to its course by its point, but by the feather at the 
butt end of its sliaft ; and if a rotary motion was required it would natu- 
rally be given by placing the feathers spirally arou'id the shaft. The 
broat flat sides of these beveled points would neutralize any effect from 
the short bevels iu passing through the air. 

I have heard it urged that they were reamers, and that the uniform bevel 
being in one direction, to cut as reamers they would have to be turned to 
the left, or, as our workmen say, "against the sun." From this it has 
been argued that the people who used them belonged to a left-handed 
race. The direction and uniformity in the bevels is to me evidence of 
exactly the reverse. Among all the points we find they are the simplest 
and easiest to form by chipping when laid on their flat. Nothing but the 
down pressure of flaker is required to separate a chip from a flat at a 
45degree angle. Suppose a flake that had been roughly shaped held 
flat on a block of wood by the fingers of the left hand, the tool in the 
right hand chipping from the point to the broad end by direct down 
pressure ; then by turning the flake over and working the other edge 
in the same manner, we have in a center cross-section a form resemb- 
ling a loag-stretched rhomboid with sharp cutting serrated edges at 
the acute angles. 

Colonel Long said that 2 inches was the greatest length of stone 
arrow-heads that he found in use among the Indians ; that all longer 




c o 




Fig. 8 



not used for javelin and spear-heads were strongly hafted and used as 
cutting implements. This was confirmed by Catlin. It is more where 
and under what circumstances we find a stone tool than the tool itself 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 



885 



that teacbes its probable use. In the case of tlie bevel-edged points, 
all I have found have been amoug waste where the users have lived, 
done their cooking and skin-dressing ; and these were always associated 
with broken bones, muscle shells, fragments of pottery, flint knives, 
scrapers, &c., never scattered as if lost in hunting, as we find arrow-heads. 
One iieculiarity of the bevel point is its strong, massive shank to secure 
it to a shaftor handle. This is shown in Figs. 8 and 9, with their cross-sec- 




FlG. 9. 

tions on the dotted lines; they arebothofvery dark, hard chert. . Fig. lOis 
from Bath County, Kentucky, near the Upper Blue Lick ; it is of beauti- 
fully striped jasper ; two sections are given to show the great thickness 
to give strength to the cutting-edges Fig. 11, yellow jasper; the want 
of symmetry in form is most probably the result of sharpening by fresh 
Fig. 12, a beautiful specimen of workmanship, showing a difler- 



Haking 



(Half size.) 




Fig. 10. 





FIG. 12. 



ent mode of attachment to a handle. All the above are drawn full size. 
In a small cache of leaf-shaped implements were found six of the bevel- 
edged points, all broken off at the shank in precisely the same manner, — 
pretty conclusive evidence of hard service, and probably- brought to 
the workshop to liave new shanks formed and to be re-hafted. 



886 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. . 

The only effort at drilling or piercing that I have found among the 
rubbish is a piece of yellow fluorspar 2 inches long, roughly rounded to 
1^ inches diameter ; in one end a hole one-fourth inch in diameter has 
been drilled three-foui-ths inch deep ; at the other end, a hole one-eighth 
inch diameter and only one-fourth inch deep. Many pierced implements 
have been found at or near dwelling sites associated with this flint man- 
ufactory, such as banner stones split through the drilled eye; some split 
fragments of tubes of great length, made out of hard schistose slate. 

Among the waste are pieces of specular iron ore from Missouri, in ev- 
idence that it was worked here, probably into axes and weights or plumb- 
bobs. There is also evidence that argillaceous iron ore, the clay iron 
stone or carbonates of the coal measures, was a material extensively 
used. From the various forms of much oxidized pieces that I have found 
that will not bear handling, they appear to have been cutting or carving 
tools, probably used in the manulactories ; though axes and celts made 
from this material are occasionally found in the vicinity of the salt licks, 
always deeply oxidized, peeling off in flakes that conform to the origi- 
nal form of the implement. 

Many scooped or hollowed out blocks of sandstone or large flattish 
river bowlders, mostly sunk on both sides, that are classed as mortars 
for crushing corn, and with them crushing stones and pestles, have been 
plowed up on this flaking ground, but they are much more abundant on 
the dwelling portion of the ridge ; also river pebbles partly pecked to 
an edge for celts, some of them roughly grooved for axes ; but what 
surprised me most was the great number of what have been called 
cup-stones, by some nut-stones. These are frequently found scattered 
over Southern Illinois and Western Kentucky, and occasionally on all 
the tributaries of the Mississippi. But here they are found in mass. 
When the ground was first put under cultivation none were seen, 
and it was not until the great denuding floods had passed over it that 
they were exposed. On finding, just above the surface of the ground, 
the face of a fine specimen that showed a number of cups, I loosened 
and turned it over to examine the cups on the under side, and found it 
was lying on top of another. With pick and spade I soon exposed a 
group or pile of over twenty, and with them a number of slabs of the same 
sandstone that showed marks of having been used as rub or grind- 
stones, all from the millstone-grit series from the bluffs on the opposite 
side of the Saline. Further research developed a number of such piles, 
some only having the cup-like indentations, as illustrated at page 40 of 
!No. 287 of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 5 others having 
a center depression of from 4 to 6 inches in diameter, similar to the rude 
mortars with the cups irregularly arranged around them. Subsequent 
overflows exposed many scattered over the entire flaking ground; they 
varied in size from large pebbles with a single cup on opposite sides, 
known to the early settlers as having been used by the Indians as nut- 
stones, up to massive slabs, having from two up to eight and ten cups 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 887 

on a side, some too heavy for me to lift into my wagon -without assist- 
ance (the largest I have seen was taken from near the center of a large 
mound in Bath County, Kentucky; it had twenty-seven cups one side 
and a greater number on the other). Many have been carried away from 
the flaking ground and used as cornerstones for log cabins or built into 
hearths and fire-backs to their wooden curb fireplaces, with their stick- 
and clay daubed chimneys. So many being found where the manu- 
facturing of stone implements has been so extensively carried on is 
suggestive to a mechanic that they were either made on the ground and 
kept on hand for sale, or they were tools in some way used in their 
works. That they were newly made can hardly be the case, for very fre- 
quently one cup has been worn iuto another. This, considering their 
sharp giit, rather points to some grinding process. Had they been 
for paint receptacles or pallets, we would expect to find them at dwell- 
ing places (where the Indians would naturally do their dressing and 
painting), and not in their workshops. 

On the opposite side of the Saline River, due south of the flaking 
bank, a spur from the main ridge terminates abruptly by a very steep 
descent to the bottom lands, which at this point have a breadth of about 
50 yards ; at the foot of this bluff are masses of sandstone ; they also 
project out of the steepest portion of the earth (at a time long past about 
100 feet high), from the top of which the ascent is gradual to the crown 
of the ridge, forming a beautiful inclined plateau extending with the 
ridge until it is lost by steep inclines into the valley of the Little Sa- 
line, a small tributary that has cut through the ridge and falls into the 
Saline 1^ miles above its junction with the Ohio, and midway between 
its mouth and the first ripple. This plateau, when I first saw it, in 1854, 
was covered with heavy timber, many trees being from 5 feet to C feet 
in diameter. The broad valley of the Little Saline had some portions 
that are above the ordinary overflows cleared and under cultivation as 
early as 1834. The slope from the ridge to the Saline, including its 
bottom lands, have been under process of clearing since 1859. After 
the plow had loosened the soil, and it had been washed by the rains, 
both the slope and thebottoms have been rich in stone relics, the bot- 
toms — particularly, in the agricultural implements of the Mound Builders. 
Climbing the steep directly opposite the flaking bank, chips of chert are 
found mixed through all the soil that has been worked from above, 
changing the rock bluff into the present steep incline, on the top of 
which on its turn from the steep to the gradual slope, another flaking 
place has been exposed. There within a space of two acres and not 
over an hour's tramp, on the fresh-plowed earth, 1 found scattered over 
twenty specimens of the cup-stones, which I collected and piled in a heap. 
This is another instance of their having been left among the offal of a 

workshop. 

In the valley formed by the junction of the Big and Little Saline, oc- 
cur extensive earth-works, long walls, mounds, &c. The largest of the 



888 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 

mounds has a height of 25 feet, length of base 225 feet, and width of 
175 feet ; its oval, truncated top is about 35 by 70 feet ; its direction 
lengthwise is north 12 degrees west; it has a graded way on the east 
side, and was originally faced with stone; over one hundred wagon- 
loads have been taken from it and used in walling drains. 

The earth-work and mounds extend on to the ridge to within one- 
fourth of a mile of the flaking ground on the bluff, thus connecting all 
these works. On the spurs near the Sabine are cemeteries and sepul- 
chral mounds, from which many human bones have been turned out by 
the plow^ I bave opened several of the mounds, one of which, from a 
mechanical point of view, possessed great interest, for the primary inter- 
ment over which it was raised was that of a worker in stone; and who 
knows but he may have been at a time the master mechanic or chief super- 
intendent of the great flint works ? The center of his mound was paved 
with the valves of the muscle shells of the Sabine, laid on the levelled 
surfjice of the natural soil in concentric rings, with the convex sides up. 
This shell pavement was about 7 feet in diameter; on its center was a 
pillow composed of twenty-seven pebble rub-stones of various grit and 
diflerently shaped edges. On these the skull was laid on its side ; it was 
far gone in decay and crushed out of shape ; the teeth much worn ; the 
position of the large bones that escaped decay showed the man had been 
bent, bringing his knees near his chin, and laid on his side. He was a man 
of massive frame; the femur measured 19 inches and the tibia 15 J inches 
long. Close to the crown of his head stood a rude clay vessel, badly 
broken; in front of the skull, on the rub stone pillow, a gorget, finished 
with the exception of drilling hole for suspending it, on which lay a 
plumb-bob, a stag's tine scraped to a point; this broke to pieces on 
removing it. There were some bone splints, two canine teeth of a 
wolf, some pieces of galena, one crystal of mica one-half inch thick (the 
plates had not been parted), a few chert flakes, and a single finished 
arrow-point: on the shell floor of the mound, near its outer edge, one 
of the mysterious cui^-stones, with three cups on one side and four on 
the other. I could not see that it had been placed with any reference to 
the center skeleton, but close to it, on the shell floor, lay a. small-sized 
skull in a better state of preservation than the central one. A large hole 
in the back of it showed it had been crushed in, the broken portions 
either having been removed or decayed. Close to it lay the deadly 
slingstone, of roughly shaped cl\ert. The decayed and broken bones 
of this skeleton had been thrown out in removing the earth from the 
shell floor, so that Its position could not be accurately ascertained, 
though from portions of bone still remaining after the skull was dis- 
covered it was evident that the entire skeleton lay on the shell floor, 
and close to the central one, and was no doubt a primary interment. 

Among these earth-works, where the densest aboriginal population 
have left their marks, stands a farm house and its outbuildings, with 
its garden on a pre-historic cemetery. From this point radiated the 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING 889 

early clearing and cultivation that has been most destructive to the 
long wall earthworks, and was the place of all others where I ex- 
pected to find the cup-stones. The single-pit nut-stones and indented 
hammer-stones wore plenty, and also the rude mortars, but the cup- 
stones were comparatively few. 

An aged farmer, whose father with his family emigrated from Virginia 
into this section when it was Indian territory, and who as a boy worked 
at the early salt works, tells me that the Indians then here used the sin- 
gle-pit nut-stones, but they did not know anything about the cup-stones. 
He asked me if I could divine any use for them. On my suggesting 
grinding he said I was wrong and that he could tell me their use. I 
will now give his explanation as near as I can in his own language. 
He said : " If you want to see them in daily use, go to Patagonia, and you 
can any day see a lot of women squatting around one of these stones 
spinning yarn and talking scandal. You see, they strip and singe the 
hair off of a piece of raw hide, lay it on the stone with the flesh side up; 
they then squeeze it into the cup holes and put something on to hold it 
while it dries. Then you see every cup makes a step for the foot of a 
spindle to rest in, and holds just enough grease in it to make the spindle 
run slick; and, depend on it, that is the way the thread was spun here 
to weave the cloth that has left its impressions on the pieces of the old 
clay salt-pans. You know that our Indians did not know anything about 
them, or of salt either, for that matter; so how could they know what 
these stones were used for"?" I understood him to say that when a boy 
he learned this from a Pacific whaler, who drifted to the salt works, 
and who related that on one occasion the vessel he was on laid up for 
some time in the Straits of Magellan, and that he then saw the Patago- 
nian women using just such stones as steps for their spindles. 

If that could have been the use of those that are so abundant here, 
we should expect to find them where the women dwell rather than at 
the flint workshops, the same reasoning applying to their use as paint 
pallets. If used for either of these purposes, why do we find the cup 
depressions on both sides, and many of the cups of various size, some 
j ust started and others worn one into another ? 

From the fact of the upper stone of the piles as they were left on the 
flaking ground being covered with such a depth of vegetable mold as 
not to have been discovered until after cultivation and exposure by the 
denuding floods, the finding one in the mound with the decayed skele- 
ton of a stone-worker, the one I have before referred to as having been 
found near the center of a large mound in Kentucky, leaves little room 
to doubt of their having been, as well as the primeval workshops, coe- 
val with the eartli-works and their associated mounds. 

There are other evidences of great antiquity in the condition of many 
of the granite and porphyry implements being honeycombed by the 
disintegration of their feldspar, leaving the silicious portions rough 



890 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and projecting. Celts and fleshers made of the carboniferous limestones 
have the silex skeletons of their fossils sharp and clearly marked. 

From the location at the first ripple of the Sabine as a fishing point, 
the proximity of the salt-licks for the larger game, no doubt the place 
was frequented, if not permanently occupied, by the last of the Indians 
in this section, who have left their stone implements scattered broad- 
cast over the country. They had lost value by the introduction of the 
nailers iron points, the rifle, knives, and the usual stock of the Indian 
trader. Had not this paper extended far beyond my original intent, 
I could give an accumulation of evidence of the rapid decline in the art 
of flaking stone. 

From a mechanical stand-point, it is hard, if not impossible, to recon- 
cile the accepted evolution of works of the stone age from flaked to 
ground and polished implements. It is true that specimens are found 
in all stages of progress from rough flake to polished implements in 
America as well as in Europe. But here in America, where the true flint 
is absent, a greater range of stone has been resorted to, and what we 
find flaked and afterwards ground and polished are mostly cutting tools, 
such as chisels, gouges, &c., of chert, jasper, or fine-grained quartzite 
that will maintain a keen cutting.edge. 

For axes, either plain or grooved, the water- worn pebbles of greenstone, 
granite, or porphyry have mostly been selected. For fleshers, softer 
stones are common, such as limestone of various qualities, steatite, oc- 
casionally cannel coal, and the harder shales of the coal measures have 
been used for these wedge-shaped implements. But let the material be 
what it may, the pecking with a hard stone on a water- worn pebble, often 
found nearly of the required shape, to modify and bring it to a cutting- 
edge ready for grinding, by simply rubbing with sand and water on a 
flat stone, only required labor, patience, and perseverance, but not the 
knowledge and skill requisite to split oflF the flakes, nor the judgment, 
steady hand, and correct eye to shape them into the exquisitely sym- 
metrical forms we find them. 

I am not writing on or questioning the evidence of the antiquity of 
man, but simply on the instruments and tools he would naturally resort 
to, in his primitive state, to sustain life when depending for food, on 
the waters for fish, the earth for fruits, seeds, nuts, and roots, and on 
the chase for animals, not only for food, but, what was most essential 
for his comfort, skins for clothing, sinews, bone, and horn for innumer- 
able uses. With the aid of a sharpened pebble (stone ax) he could at- 
tack a forest tree, and by the aid of fire shape its wood to his uses. 
Most probably scraping came in advance of cutting, and what could be 
better adapted for this purpose than the sharp edges of fractured flint 
pebbles ? 

With the wooden bow and arrow arose the necessity for an arrow- 
point harder than wood. If bone was used, the pebble scraper was es- 
sential. The river drift or gravel bars, when subjected to the grinding 



OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 891 

and crushing action of drift-logs or rolling bowlders, would iurnish many- 
suggestive forms and shapes that a little ingenuity would apply, and 
out of which would naturally grow the art of flaking. 

The streets of Paduc*ali, Ky., are paved with partly rounded, angular, 
silicious gravel, mostly of jasi)er. Seeing heaps of this ready for spread- 
ing, I was struck by the many forms, mostly highly water polished, that 
if found on a flaking ground would pass for refuse flakes and rubbish 
left by the workmen. 

On inquiry I was informed that this coarse gravel was from banks 
on the Tennessee Eiver above the ordinary overflows. I selected many 
forms that any archaeologist would pronounce to be the work of man. 

A heavy wagon, loaded with hogsheads of tobacco, drawn by five or 
six yoke of oxen, passed over the fresh-spread gravel with a sharp, 
crushing, grinding sound. On examining the wheel tracks I was sur- 
prised to find the slight impression the iron tire had made on the sur- 
face stones. They had been pressed aside from the wheels, leaving a 
slight rut, those under the wheels compressed together, but very little 
broken ; not sufficient to account for the sharp, crackling noise made as 
the wagon-wheels passed over them. On examining the effect from the 
tread of the wheels to the old road-bed, a depth of about 6 inches, I 
found most of the larger gravel stones under the top layer split, some into 
flakes, the fractures in various directions, some crossing others. This 
spread from the width of the wheel-tires to about three times as wide 
on the old road-bed. Many of the fresh fractures presented the forms 
and appearance of genuine cores, and would be mistaken for the work 
of man. It was a beautiful illustration of the efl'ect of pressure on small 
points of contact. Our lady friends, often inveterate iced-tea drinkers, 
when they find a lump of ice too large for their glass, will, with a com- 
mon toilet-pin between thumb and finger, press its point into the ice, tap 
its head with the handle of a case-knife, or give it a click with a thimble. 
The cohesion is destroyed and the ice splits with just such a fracture 
as is made by impulsive point pressure on the more tenacious and re- 
factory chert. 

These Paducah observations led to con siderable investigation as to 
the action of lodged drift-logs on gravel-bars, and finally to an experi- 
ment that I should recommend the Smithsonian Institution to try on 
more extensive scale than I was able to. 

I filled a metal cylinder with pebbles of various sizes and shapes, 
brought a pressure by a screw on them through a plunger; immediately 
a crepitating sound was heard, which as the pressure increased became 
sharper and louder, at times almost explosive, as the interstices became 
filled with broken fragments, i)roducing side pressure and cross fract- 
ures. The sound became more confused and died away. On emptying 
the cylinder, the result was many rei)resentation8 of the rude imple- 
ments found in the drift. 



892 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



COPPER IMPLEMENTS FROM BAYFIELD, WISCONSIN. 

By Colo uel Charles Whittlesey, of Cleveland, Ohio. 

In grading the streets of Bayfield, Wis., about the year 1864, the 
workmen fouud a copper implement in the gravel. The accompanying- 
ligure, one-half the natural size, will give some idea of the shape and 

character of the specimen (Figure 1). A 
is an upright outline or elevation, with 
the concave surface toward the rear. B 
is a top view or plan of the implement 
as seen from above, and C a vertical or 
longitudinal section through the middle 
at the dotted line c d. The irregular 
space e e shows a flaw in the metal. 

Several have been found elsewhere in 
the United States and Canada of about 
the same outline, but generally the blade 
or flat part is much larger in proportion 
to the shank or socket. Where the two 
parts are equal they are regarded as 
spades. One described by Mr. Squier in 
Ancient Monumeuts," taken from a sepulchral deposit near Brookville, 
Canada, is about 10 inches in length. It could be used in digging by 
inserting a handle several feet in length, with a notch or ofTset for the 
foot near the bottom. 

Those with the short bit may have been spades worn out by use. 
Their edges are generally sharp, as though they had been used to cut 
wood or some other hard substance. After they were well worn as 
spades they could be turned into an adze by inserting a crotch, with 
the plane of the blade at right angle with the plane of the handle, or 
into an ax by making the planes coincide. 

Found i.^t fS66 on- Pres^uc Jsl. one of tTic ^postZ& 
Group ZioJic Sup trior '■ on iha Surraxx.. 

Se.ctioTi' ait- 5. i. 
Section- cii a . a- 




U 




Copper ICnife fntnt Jiajy/ieJd . Wisco7isin-. 



Fk; 



Figure 2 represents a copper knife (half-size) found on Presque Isle, 
one of the Apostle Group of Lake Superior, in 1860. It was lying on 



ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO. 



803 



the surface of the ground, and is now in the possession of 3Irs. B. M. 
Haywood, of Bayfield, Wis. The thickness near the ends is shown by 
the cross-sections at aft and at b h. 



Se^tiorL' a-C cc. a,. 




Q 



Cbpper CuilifJf/ ioo7' from /iiiife- River. Mivvrv^ 

Fig. 3. 

Figure 3 represents a copper cutting tool from Knife River, on the 
northwest shore of Lake Superior, Minnesota. It was found in 1805, 
and is now in the collection of the Western Eeserve and Xorthern His- 
torical Society of Cleveland, Ohio. It was evidently cold-hammered, 
and the surface is rough from corrosion. 



ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO. 
By J. P. MacLeax, of Hamilton, Ohio. 

WorJcs near Wiyichester, Adams County, O/uo.-^- Winchester Township 
is located in the extreme northwestern corner of Adams County, Ohio. 
The terminal moraine of the great ice age enters the township at the 
northeastern corner, extends diagonally across it, and passes out at the 
southwestern extremity. The township, for agricultural purposes, is 
the richest in the county. The soil, for the most part, is poor, known 
as cold clay, and the surface broken by the tributaries of Brush Creek. 

North of the village of Winchester, a distance of one-half mile, is a 
series of circular works, which for fifty or more years have been plowed 
over. Near the center of these works is a mound {A) (Plan 1) 8 feet 



JO 



5'tOfO 






-''AW 
J?' 






C/fl 



si- ~^ 






JE^Zcctp/.^Jte^rrKic-iyri/'S ■rLCcc-r> WOn/cftc^ct^.AM<x,tti.sOc} O- 



894 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

high, conical in form, which has never been disturbed by the plow 
From the top to the bottom on the east side is 50 feet ; from top to cir- 
cumference on north side 48 feet. East of this mound {a b), a distance 
of 172 feet,is the circle B. The wall is almost level with the surround- 
ing surface, although from 6 inches to 1 foot high along the line g b h 
The remaining part of the work is diflficult to trace. The gateway can- 
not now be located, although it is said to have faced the east. South 
of the mound (c <?), a distance of 175 feet, was formerly another circle (C), 
but no trace of it exists at the present time. 

West of the mound (e/), a distance of 540 feet, is the circle D, 150 
feet in diameter. This work presents a wall averaging from 10 to 15 
inches in height with a ditch in the interior. I was unable to locate 
a gateway. 

When first discovered these works were covered with forest trees. 
The walls averaged 5 feet in height. The material is composed of clay 
of the same kind as that in the immediate vicinity. The mound has 
never been opened. The spot is level, and appears to have been well 
chosen. Following are the measurements : 

(A.) Conical mound, 8 feet high ; east to top, 50 feet ; north to top, 48 
feet. 

(B.) Circle 172 feet east of mound. Circle 510 feet in circumference. 

(C.) Obliterated circle 175 feet south of mound. 

(D.) Circle 540 feet west of mound. Circle 150 feet diameter. 

One mile and a quarter north of these works, located on a high point 
of ground, is a mound (Entry Ko. 3, Map b) removed a few rods west of 
the Hillsboro' turnpike. The mound is conical, 14 feet in height, with 
a circumference of 250 feet at the base. Original height, 20 feet; solid 
contents, 2,098 cubic yards. From its summit a fine view of the country 
may be obtained. 

On Entry No. 8 (see map) is a small mound (c) 3 feet in height. 

WorJcs in Eagle Township, Brown County, Ohio. — Eagle Township 
(see map) is bounded on the north by Highland County (White Oak 
and Concord Townships) ; on the east by Adams County (Winchester 
Township) ; on the south by Jackson Township, and on the west by 
Washington Township. The general surface is comparatively level, 
although the west fork of Brush Creek has made a deep valley running 
from west to east. Some of the tributaries of this stream have formed 
deep ravines. Where these ravines have cut through the glacial till 
the Hudson River blue limestone is exposed, save in one spot (see map 
Z, entry 398), I noticed Clinton strata. 

The ancient remains located on entries 398 and 1316, in company with 
Prof J. W. Fertig, I measured. May 16, 1885 (see Plan 2). The mound 
A is located on the line between Brown a;nd Adams Counties. It is 
located on a knoll, seyeral of which occur in the immediate vicinity. 
It is difficult to tell just where the base of the mound begins. If the 
plac^ I assumed to.be the^base is >the correct one then the mound is 328 ,. 



ANCIENT REMAINS IN oiIIO. 



895 









0^ 



iVU/i.il'"'*^'^^'^ 






^^ 



.vv«?: 



xvivw'f' 



,<m\f 



jjS>v\>\\ 



W 






i\.\i'(lHl>' 'l(li^ 



oV\* 



Ml, 









^^' 



,<# 



.^^'^ 



,,i«/^»"'<.i"'«'«Jii»i«i^,,, 



^>!^ 



.^ 



xc.rt* , 



^** 















o 

o 






1 


1 


1 




# 


1 


^ 


1 


3> 


? 


5i 


« 




1 






896 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

feet in circumference; from northwest base to top, 70 feet, angle llO; 
southeast to top, 44 feet, angle 15^; solid contents, 1,533 cubic yards; 
height, 14^ feet. A view of the country to the southeast is here pre- 
sented. 

Measuring due west and passing through two deep ravines we come 
to fort (B), striking it at a, and removed from the mound a distance of 
1,970 feet. This work is entirely surrounded by deep ravines, save a 
narrow strip of land at the north. That part of the wall marked p c h 
d e g ia in woodland. From p to h the wall is about 18 inches high ; 
from h to d not over 12 inches, while from e to ^ it will average 32 inches. 
A ditch in the interior extends from c to h, also from e to g. The highest 
point of land is at p, thence the wall extends rapidly down the ravine 
until it is almost level with the bottom at s, thence it rapidly rises to 
€, then declines to g. From ^ to a the wall is entirely obliterated, that 
part of the work having been under cultivation for the past forty years. 
From e to b is a gradual ascent, the distance being 985 feet. The dis- 
tance from a to b to c to d is 1,291 feet; from d to e 75 feet, and from e 
to g 130 feet ; from a to & 300 feet, and from a direct to c 400 feet : 
from the point c {B} we started directly west a distance of 1,875 feet, 
as we measured it. This number must not be relied upon as being cor- 
rect. Owing to the density of the underbrush on the west side of the 
ravine we were forced to deviate from a straight line, but the result 
was as near as we could reach it without cutting a straight path. At 
the end of the distance measured, and between two small ravines, on 
a piece of land sloping to the southeast, is an arc of a circle {C) 288 feet 
in length. The wall has been plowed over for fifty years, yet is 2 feet 
in height, with a base 20 feet in diameter, and accompanied by a ditch 
in the interior. 

Measuring westward 1,993 feet, and through open grounds compara- 
tively level, we reach the mound U. This mound is 332 feet in circum- 
ference at the base ; from north side to top, 44 feet ; from south side to 
top, 44 feet; across the top, 21 feet; slope angle, 34 degrees ; height, 
24^ feet; solid contents, 2,516 cubic yards. It is perfectly symmetri- 
cal ; commands a tine view of the surrounding country ; has never been 
disturbed by i)low, pick, or shovel, and is one of the most beautiful 
mounds in the State. It is surrounded by a circle 160 feet in diameter. 
The circle, however, is plowed almost down to the general level of the 
surface. There are indications of a gateway at the east. At a dis- 
tance of 640 feet southeast of the mound is the circle J), 865 feet in 
circumference. The original height of the wall was 10 feet. It is now 
about 2 feet, and 40 feet in diameter at the base. The gateway is to- 
wards the northeast. 

Due north of the mound a distance of about 300 feet was a walled 
well. The history of this well is not known ; it was there when the first 
settlers came. It has been tilled up, and now ijlowed over. 

The whole distance from the foot of the mound A to that of U, as 



ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO. 



897 



measured, is 0,526 feet. The figures run 1,070, 1,875, and 1,993. The 
difference between the two opposite figures is 118 feet. The average 
distance would bo 1,910 ieet, while the average of all, including works 
not given, 2,175. It is more than probable that some system in these 
measurements was followed. 




Ancient remains in Concord Toicnship, Highland County, Ohio. — Three 
and one half miles northeast of the mound A (Plan 2) are ancient re- 
mains (see Plan 3) located on Entry 281, Concord Township, Ilighland 
County, Ohio. The spot where these works occur is a secluded one. 
Great west fork of Brush Creek makes a bend, almost at right angles. 
The land slopes from the northeast. Before reaching the creek a bench 
is met, upon which these works are built. ]^o view can here be obtained 
of the surrounding country, because it is literally hemmed in by hills. 
The most interesting work is the stone structure marked B (Plan 3). 
The entire wall, except from a to e, is composed of Iludson Eiver lime- 
stone. The stone has been burnt, and for a long period exposed to the 
H. Mis. 15 — -57 



898 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

elements. The wall has been thrown down, yet its regularity is perfectly 
preserved. The following are the measurements : From a to e (inside 
to inside of wall), 32 feet ; b to d (inside to inside of wall), 32 feet ; b to 
c, 125 feet; e to d to c, 165 feet; a to b to c, 165 feet; thickness of wall 
across base at c, 21 feet ; thickness of wall across base at A;, 24 feet ; also 
same at p. Height of stone wall, 2 feet. From a to e the wall is com- 
posed of earth, is 8 inches in height and 7 feet in breadth. The floor 
on the interior of this work is perfectly level. 

Fifty-two feet due north-east of this work is a section of a circle (A). 
The wall has been plowed over, and will not average over 1 foot in 
height by 22 feet across. The distance from g to/, following the curve, 
is 225 feet, and on a straight line 130 feet. 

Two hundred and eighty-five feet due east of a {B) is a mound 3 feet 
high and 22 feet diameter. 

At a distance of one-fourth of a mile northeast of (A) is another mound 
located upon a hill, but not having a commanding view of the country, 
nor of the works just described. 

It is fair to assume that the works near Winchester, those of Eagle 
Township, and the ones just described, belonged to the same people. 
There is no evidence that they were constructed in different ages and 
by different people. The nearness of the structures to each other, and 
their evidently unfinished condition point to the same time and the same 
people. On a straight line some 6 or 8 miles east is the Great Serpent 
Mound. This is removed a distance of about 5 miles from "Fort Hill," 
in Brush Creek Township, Highland County, Ohio. This work has 
been figured and described* in "Ancient Monuments," with the addi- 
tional information that " no other remains, except perhaps a few small, 
scattered mounds, in its vicinity." Near the southern foot of the hill 
upon which the fort is located is a series of circular works, now almost 
obliterated. 

It is a fair assumption that the builders of " Fort Hill" and the circles 
near it belonged to a clan separate, yet related to the one that con- 
structed the works near Winchester. 

Now, the so-called "serpent efiigy" is composed of a frog, an egg, and 
a serpent. Why may not one of these clans have been the frog, and 
the other the serpent, or snake; and the series of the effigies represent 
that the snake clan came from the frog? 

Ancient remains in Glarke County, Ohio. — On May 23, 1885, in com- 
l)any with Prof. J. W. Freeman, I visited the works located on the land 
of Benjamin Newlove, section 29, Harmony Township, Clarke County, 
Ohio. When these works were first discovered only saplings were grow- 
ing upon them. The works are situated on the side of a hill descending 
towards the northeast (see Plan 4). The larger work is oblong, the 
longest diameter being 320 feet, and the transverse 250 feet. The gate- 
way a 6 is 33 feet; the entire wall is 821 feet long ; the wall at d is 7 feet 

* "Aucieut Monuments," page 14. 



ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO. 



899 



, 11 .in and h 4 feet high, aud 25 feet wide at tbc base. The 







The land at o i. 15 feet Ugber tbau tbe J-J^^^y^^^^.n:^ at the gl 
is in the interior, extending '"^^ ^f < '^'Xe ,Mcb doe not loueh the 
way. Here the land is l«*«''-\ '^^ f . J*"" '„' , fo ,ows between the 
embankment. A platform averaging 4 feet across 
line of embankment and the ditch. From the bank of one 

By the side of the work (4) is the e.rele (£). r.om^^hc 
to that of the other at the nearest point is 31 feet. Ihe 



900 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

feci in circumference, to which is to be added 45 feet for the gateway 
(J h. The wall is 5 feet high, with a diameter at the base of 25 feet. 
The work is accompanied by an interior ditch, which, however, does 
not extend across the gateway. Between the interior foot of the em- 
bankment and the ditch is a platform 20 feet in width. 

One hundred and forty feet north of the small circle is a circular es- 
tufa, walled with small bowlders. Forty feet still farther north is a 
spring of clear cold water, which has never been known to fail. 



A PRIMITIVE STOREHOUSE OF THE CREEK INDIANS. 

By Charles C. Jones, Jr., of Agusta, Georgia. 

In his description of the customs of the ancient inhabitants of Virginia, 
William Strachey* sajs: "Their corne and, indeed, their copper 
hatchetts, howses, beades, perle and most things with them of value, 
iu'cording to their own estymacion, they hide, one from the knowledge 
of another, in the growud within the woodes, and so keejie them all the 
yeare, or untill they have fltt use for them, as the Romans did their 
monies and treasure in certaine cellars, called therefore as Pliuye remem- 
bers, /a'y»sscc; and when they take them forth they scarse make tbeir 
women privie to the store-house." 

In i)late xxii of the Brevis Narratio [Fraucoforti ad Moeuum mdxci], 
le Moyne de Morgues furnishes a drawing of what, in the accompany- 
ing text, is called a puhlicuni horreum. It is situated upon the low bank 
of a river, and toward it canoes — filled with corn and fruits, and pro- 
pelled by Florida Indians — are tending. Such granaries or public recep- 
tacles were, by tbe peoples dwelling within the limits of the extensive 
domain then known as Florida, built of stones or eartb, and roofed with 
palmetto leaves and clay. For their location cool spots were selected, 
where protection was found against the violent rays of the sun. They 
served as depositories for maize, fruits, nuts, nutricious roots, dried 
fishes, alligators, deer, dogs, and other jerked meats. Hoards of corn, 
nuts, and meat are frequently mentioned in the early narratives as ex- 
istent among the primitive peoples of this region at the time of primal 
contact with Europeans. They were both public and private. 

In alluding to the agricultural occupations of the Southern Indians 
Mr. Bartram observes : " When the fruits of their labors are ripe and in 
fit order to gather in, they all, on they same day, repair to the planta- 
tion, each gathers tbe produce of his own proper lot, brings it to town, 
and deposits it in his own crib, allotting a certain portion for the public 
granary which is called the King's crib because its contents are at his 

" History of Travaile into Virginia, p. 113. London. (Printed for the Hakluyt 
Society, 1849.) 



CREEK INDIAN REPOSITORY. 901 

disposal, though not his private property, but considered as the tribute 
or free contribution of the citizens of the State at the disposal of the 
King." He further states that the common or public granary served 
the valuable purposes of assisting the needy when in sore want, of fur- 
nishing entertainment for strangers and noted guests, and of supplying 
warriors with provisions when they were setting out on hostile expe- 
ditions. 

That the American Indians often concealed in the ground and in se- 
cure receptacles not only the products of their agricultural labor and 
trophies of the chase, but also objects manufactured of clay, shell, and 
stone, is a fact capable of easy demonstration. Without enumerating 
the proofs,' or pausing to cite authorities in support of the frequent use 
by the Southern Indians in the sixteenth century of storehouses, both 
public and private, we desire to call attention to the existence of one 
of these primitive structures ui)on the plantation of Colonel Seaborn 
Jones, at Mill Haven, in Screven County, Georgia. For quite a century 
it has remained unchanged. It is located upon the declivity of the 
right bank of Briar Creek, in proximity to that stream, and in the midst 
of a beautiful forest of oak, holly, and pine. Cylindrical in shape, this 
receptacle has a diameter of 8 feet, and is about 6 feet deep. The ex- 
cavatioij in the ground was at first carefully and regularly made and, 
when completed, the si<ies and bottom were covered with a uniform 
layer of well-kneaded red clay 4 inches in thickness. These clay walls, 
the interior surface of which was pressed hard and smooth, are still 
quite perfect. As one looks upon the struccure, it presents the appear- 
ance of a huge cylindrical terra-cotta vessel let into the earth. There 
is some indication of the action of fire in hardening the walls. To 
Briar Creek, and especially to this neighborhood, did the Creek Indians 
resort to fish and hunt. The adjacent bluffs and fields give token to 
the present day of former and long-continued occupancy. Village sites 
may still be seen littered with fragments of earthen vessels, flint chii)s, 
spear and arrow points, grooved axes, scrapers, and other objects of 
l^rimitive manufacture. Even now this stream abounds in fishes, tur- 
tles, and alligators, and the swamp, at an early period, was filled with 
deer, wild turkeys, and other game held in repute by the natives. 

Doubtless, during the use of this receptacle, it was furnished with a 
roof or covering which long since perished. It is probable that in it 
were stored, from time to time, the fishes caught by visiting Indians. 
These, having been previously dried, there accumulated until the sea- 
son arrived for the homeward journey, where they were removed and 
transported to the permanent lodges of their captors. It is hoped that 
care will be exercised in the preservation of this interesting object. 



902 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

SHELL HEAPS AND MOUNDS IN FLOEIDA. 

By James Shepard, of New Britain, Conn. 

In February, 1884, in company with Dr. F. H. Williams, of Bristol, 
Conn., I visited Palatka. Many walks about the town were covered 
with small snail shells which were gathered from large deposits in that 
vicinity. It was a common belief that these were marine shells; and 
frequent was the inquiry why the Indians brought these shells from 
the distant sea. The answer is, " They did not," for the shells are mostly, 
those of the river snail, Vivipara contectoides (Binney). Several of 
whom I inquired thought that like specimens of live shells could not 
be found near Palatka. In this opinion they are probably mistaken. 
On being informed that there was a shell heap on the Saint John's Eiver 
a few miles below Palatka, four of us started out the next morning to 
explore the land in that vicinity. Late in the afternoon one of our 
party discovered a shell heap. It was on low ground, in the woods or 
hummock, probably not far from the Saint John's Eiver, although the 
river was not visible. It was literally a heap, quite irregular in form, 
covering three or four square rods of ground and varying in depth from 
2 to 5 feet. It was just such a heap as one would expect a pile of debris 
to be. There were no indications that any shells had been removed or 
that the heap had ever been dug into. On the surface the shells were 
bat little broken, and the entire heap appeared to be composed of two 
kinds of shells, the Pomus depressa (Say) and Vivipara contectoides 
(Binney). By digging below the surface, pieces of river mussels or 
Unios were found, very much decomposed and covering the other shells 
with a nacreous paste. Bones of small animals and birds and flint chips 
were numerous, with many pieces of pottery and an occasional arrow- 
head. There were only a few shells in the entire heap of any genera 
other than the Pomus, Vivipara, and Unio. 

On sailing up the Saint John's Eiver we saw several shell heaps on 
the banks of the river apparently of the same general character, only 
some of them were much more extensive. We stopped only at Sanford, 
and there found a shell heap a mile or two below the steamboat land- 
ing. This was much larger than thePalatka mound and spread irregu- 
larly over the ground. Shells had been carted away from here and 
the heap dug into in many places by relic hunters. All of the shells 
were of the same three kinds, Pomus, Vivipara, and Unio. The shells 
at the surface were very much crushed, indicating that they had been 
much trodden on. Many pieces of pottery were scattered about over 
the surface, and others were found by digging. Arrowheads and flint 
chips were infrequent. In some places indications of ancient fires were 
found, the shells being burned and firmly cemented together. Below 
the layer of cemented shells and ashes the shells were found in a 
remarkable degree of preservation, some of the Vivipara showing the 



MOUNDS IN FLORIDA. 90 



o 



four bright browu bunds about the body- whorl quite as distinctly as in 
the day when they were taken from the water. Others seemed to have 
changed their substance, and were white and glossy with a porcelanous 
appearance. Here, too, we found a lump of hardened red paint. 
Some pieces of pottery were perfectly plain, while others were orna- 
mented in various patterns both by scratching and by depressions. 
Some of the checkered ornamentations seemed to have been made by 
repeated impressions with a stamp, such as would be produced by 
making channels in a flat surface at regular distances apart and at 
right angles to each other, and then, in using the stamp, turning it 
between each two impressions so as to make the lines in one depression 
stand obliquely to those of the adjoining one. At the junction of two 
such depressions the overlapping or intermingled lines were plainly ■ 
visible. One piece was ornamented by straight parallel depressions, 
and then, after the dejiressing implement was withdrawn and while the 
clay was yet soft, other depressions were made transversely to the first 
ones, but not so deep, the ribs between the first depressions being 
flattened down on the cross-lines and partially filling the first depressions. 
One piece was found of such an arc, that supposing it was from a round 
vessel the diameter of said vessel was 29 inches. 

ITear this shell heap were two mounds of symmetrical shape, formed 
mostly of earth, but partly from shells like those in the heap. The 
earth was the same as the surrounding soil. These had been dug into 
considerably, and on digging farther into one of the holes we found the 
leg and foot bones of a human skeleton, but no implements or orna- 
ments. 

In returning we found by a ditch on the flats of the St. John's Eiver, 
a smaller shell heap of fresh shells, but not thick enough to cover the 
ground. The shells were identically of the same three kinds. The fresh 
operculum lying by these shells showed that they had recently been taken 
alive, and that their meat had been picked out by some small animal. 

The long-billed curlew {Numeiiius longirostris) is said to eat the live ani 
mal from these shells. These shells were of great interest to me for they 
put atrestall speculation as to where the Indians obtained their supply 
of food, of which the shell heaps are the refuse, and proved to my mind 
that they took their shell fish from the river whose bank they have lined 
with shell heaps, and also that the same species of mollusks are living 
there to-day. Undoubtedly this fact has been noted and published be- 
fore, but there are many who still believe that the shell heaps of the 
St. John's River are composed of marine shells. When we consider the 
resemblance of the Poinus to the Natica, it is not strange that such opin- 
ions may be formed by a cursory observer. 

Our uextstop wasat Tampa, Hillsborough County, and our first excur- 
sion was to Kocky Point, Old Tampa Bay, about 5 or 6 miles westerly 
from Tampa, near where the salt works were located during the civil 
war. Here was a large mound of marine shells situated at the base of 



D04 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the point aud exteiidiug entirely across it. Oyster shells formed the 
major part of the pile. Several holes had been dug into the surface 
which, with the general appearance of the place, indicated that it had 
frequently been visited. The rocks of which the point is mainly formed 
• and from which the point was named, consists of fossil coral. The ma- 
terial for many of the rough implements found in this vicinity evidently 
came from this point. 

Most of the surface specimens yielded by this heap were found at or 
near the base of the slanting sides of the pile. In addition to arrow- 
heads, scrapers and rough-shaped implements of quartz, we found 
pottery aud quite a variety of shell and bone implements, the latter 
being entirely new to us. Among these were several celts quite similar 
to those illustrated in " The Archaeological Collection," p. 67, figs. 254 
and 25.'>, also chisels, gouges, pendants, and beads made from the colu- 
mella of large shells, and smaller chisels made from bone, besides other 
rough pieces which we suppose were implements of some kind. One 
piece of pottery was ornamented with impressions of a long spiral shell 
of the genera Cerithiim. Nearby we found large numbers of live speci- 
mens of this shell, some of which quite closely fitted the depressions in 
this piece of pottery. 

On the land of Colonel Culbreath, about 2 miles from Tampa, and on 
the shore of Old Tampa Bay, is what is termed a " shell hummock." 
It is cultivated as an orange grove and a market garden. It was prob- 
ably once an immense shell heap, but now it is scattered over several 
acres. A little to one side of the center of the lot the ground is slightly 
elevated and nearly or quite half of the surface material is shell. From 
this point the shells are less numerous, as they are spread out in all di- 
rections, growing gradually less until the soil is Iree from them. Here 
we found an abundance of quartz implements and worked pieces of ill- 
shaped forms, that might or might not have been intended for imple- 
ments. Others were of fossil coral limestone, like the coral at Eocky 
Point farther np the bay. Some pieces of the quartz and coral were 
nearly spherical, the whole (in some cases only a part) of the surface 
having been formed by chipping. Perhaps, in the absence of natural 
pebbles in this section, these had been worked out for use as a substi- 
tute ; perhaps to use as club heads, incased with rawhide. We found 
rough and somewhat rounded pieces of fossil coral with pit holes on 
opposite sides, and a single piece of soapstone, about one and a half inch 
in diameter by half an inch thick, but its surface was not worked suf- 
ficiently to show its use. I refer to it only because it is a material which 
has not to my knowledge ever been found in nature within several hun- 
dred miles of South Florida. 

Of shell and bone implements we found all the kinds collected at 
Rocky Point, celts, gouges, pendants, beads, and also the columella of 
small conchs, worked into small round shafts pointed at each end. 
Some of the columella of the larger conchs were worked to a point on 
one end. There were triangular and other shaped pieces of the shells 



MOUNDS IN FLORIDA. 905 

of the common hard-shell clam worked to a sharp ed^e on all sides. 
One spoon was uiade from the umbo of one of these clam shells, another 
from the outer whorl of some large couch. We also found beads made 
from the Oliva Uterata, as illustrated by fig. 260, p. 09, " The Archaeo- 
logical Collection," and large conch shells, perforated and worked to 
form club heads. Some were minus the hole in posterior surface of the 
spire, but were otherwise exactly like those described by Dr. Ran on 
page 60 of said book. A friend of mine has a similar supposed club 
head from South Florida, consisting of a like conch shell worked in the 
same manner at the small end and perforated by two holes in the outer 
wall, but without the notch in the outer lip, so that the handle passed 
to the right of the columella instead of at the lefr. The necklace or 
bead conclis having two holes and truncated at the apex like fig. 257, 
p. 09, we also found, and it was the first time our attention had ever been 
called to them. We wondered if they might have been toy club heads 
for children, but Dr. Rau's book informed us otherwise. In most of 
these shells the perforations have been so formed that when strung and 
disposed about a person's neck or chest, the lips and the most brightly 
colored parts of the shell would be exposed to view. One small disk 
from a hard clam shell having ragged edges and a beveled perforation 
in the center was found. The hole was almost identical with those 
made by boring worms and shells, and one i^erson who saw it was con- 
fident that this was only an accidentally broken piece having such a 
worm-bored hole. Upon having his attention called to the fact that 
the bevel was at the inner surface of the shell, he was willing to accredit 
the supposed work of a worm to an Indian. I mention this to show the 
importance of close observation and how a very little thing may often 
decide a question. A workman in the field informed us that he often 
plowed out parts of shells that had been engraved. We visited the 
hummock several times but found nothing of the kind. At last the 
workman found one and showed me. It was nothing but a plain un- 
worked columella with the outer whorls broken oft" undesignedly. He 
had mistaken the natural spiral lines for carvings. This is about as 
reliable as the information one can get from those who have never paid 
special attention to archaeological specimens. Fragments of pottery of 
various patterns were abundant here. The shells were all marine shells 
excepting such land shells as had i)robably found their own way to that 
place. 

By Hillsboro' Bay, at the mouth of the Alifia River, several miles be 
low Tampa, is a shell heap called " Bull Frog Mound," so named from 
the fancied resemblance of its shape to a bull frog when viewed from 
the water in sailing up the bay. This is by far the most extensive shell 
heap of any that we visited. It is formed of two mound-shape piles at 
considerable distance apart, while all the ground between these piles 
is covered with shells to the depth of several feet. The larger pile is 
reported to be GO feet high and stands close to the river ; in fact the 
shells extend well down into the river as if filled in beyond the original 



906 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

bank, so tliat the mound itself, at this point, now forms the river bank. 
A large oak tree stands at the very summit of the mound. The lesser 
pile has been considerably reduced by burning the shells for lime. In 
front of the mound, looking towards the bay, is a point consisting of a 
flat salt marsh covered with rushes. The mound is composed largely 
of oyster shells and appears to have been frequently visited of late. 
Eelics were scarce, and those we did find were of the same class as we 
had found before. The only relics which could be found here in num 
bers were the small perforated and truncated conchs for necklaces or 
beads. 

Bordering on the city limits of Tampa, Hillsboro' Bay, and the mouth 
of Hillsboro' Eiver, is the garrison called " Fort Brooke." Here are two 
ancient earth mounds which have been dug into considerably, but we 
could not learn that anything of special value had ever been found. On 
the ground about the mounds we found bits of pottery, flint chips, a 
few arrow heads and rough implements. I here found a genuine quartz 
l^ebble, about 2 inches in diameter, round and flat, with its edges 
broken a little on two opposite sides. This was the only specimen of u 
pebble that I saw in Florida, and I pronounced it a foreigner. 

All of the marine shells which we saw at these South Florida shell 
heaps corresponded with the live species now inhabiting the waters of 
that section. All of the stone implements or fragments, except the 
piece of soap-stone and quartz pebble before noted, corresponded with 
the limestone, or the lime fossil coral, or the silicifled corals, i&c, of that 
region, the latter, so far as I know, being found only in Hillsboro' Bay, 
and mostly at Ballast Point, about 5 miles below Tampa. In fact all 
of the arrow heads from South Florida that I have observed appear to 
have been made of material obtained at or near Ballast Point. Here 
are many silicifled geodes, both large and small, some having an outer 
surface that shows a coral formation, while the inner surface is of vari- 
ous bright colors of chalcedony or drusy quartz. Here also are pieces of 
cherty flint of considerable size, which, when they have not been previ 
ously broken, are coated with limestone. The beach at low tide is lit 
erally covered with quartz that has been artificially broken. Many ap 
parently unfinished implements are found, and also occasionally finished 
arrow heads, scrapers, &c. Arrow and spear heads were made from 
the thin flattish sides of geodes, so that the work was much more haz- 
ardous than making them from thicker stock. Cavities were numerous 
even in the best material found here, and presumably for that reason 
unfinished implements are very numerous in this vicinity. While in 
many places the beach abounds in stone, I have never known of any 
having been found, in nature, upon the inland surface. 

A little back from the beach at Ballast Point is a long ridge of shells, 
much broken, as if washed up by the tide. There are, however (the 
facts before noted), plenty of evidences that this was ground formerly 
frequented by the Indians, and many believe this ridge of shells to be 
the remains of an Indian shell heap. 



ON ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 907 

ANCIENT EAKTH- WORKS IN CHINA. 

By Mark Williams, of Ealgan , China. 

From Kalgan to Yiicho are ancient mounds in cluster on the plain or 
singly on eminences. These latter would indicate signal towers, while 
the former would suggest tombs. They are about 30 feet high, circular 
and oval in shape, and no arrangement can be observed in the clusters. 

At the base of a signal mound by the great wall of Kalgan I found 
a stone ax. 

The Chinese give no rational explanation of these mounds. I have 
as yet found no mention of them in ancient records. At Yiicho, 100 miles 
south of Kalgan, is a cluster of forty mounds ; 4 miles off are ruins of a 
city wall. Chinese cities have rectangular walls, with towers at short 
intervals. But this is a circular embankment with no remains of towers. 
The part of the remaining entrance is unlike the gate of a Chinese city. 
Eecords state that this was the seat of a Chinese prince who lived B. c. 
200. In some places the wall is levelled, in. other places it is perfect, 
making an acute angle at the summit. Cultivation has narrowed the 
bases of the mounds, but superstition prevents their destruction. To 
one familiar with the works of the mound builders in the Mississippi 
Valley, the stone ax, the mounds, circular wall, suggest a similar race. 



PLAN FOR AMERICAN ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 

By the late Henry R. Schoolcraft. ' 

[The following programme, though never officially adopted by the 
Smithsonian Institution, embodies the result of much study of the sub- 
ject by the distinguished author ; and even after the lapse of forty years 
possesses sufficient interest and suggestiveness to justify its publica- 
tion.] 

" Plan for. the investigation of American ethnology, to include the facts 
derived from other parts of the globe, and the eventual formation of a mu- 
seum of antiquities and the peculiar fabrics of nations ; and also the collec- 
tion of a library of the philology of the world, manuscript and printed. 
Submitted to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, at their 
first meeting, at Washington, in September, 1846." 

New York, August 22, 1846. 

Gentlemen: Inlaying before you the following suggestions, I am 
governed by the opinion that there is a means of investigation of the 
subject i)roposed, which possesses general interest as a branch of human 
knowledge, and cannot but be invested with peculiar force to men of 
letters dwelling on the western continent. The origin, dispersion, and 



908 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

affinities of nations, and their transference from the eastern to the 
western hemisi)here, prior to the period of Columbus, have constituted 
subjects of interesting inquiry from the time of the discovery. And 
viewed in the lights which are now presented by the progress of eth- 
nography, modern geographical discovery, and other means of advanc- 
ing the study of nations, the inquiry may be supposed to be one which 
the mind of Mr. Smithson had embraced in his enlarged conception of 
promoting "the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

The occupation of the continent itself by men diverse — in their phys- 
ical and mental traits and their languages, from the various races of 
its discoverers at and after 1492 ; separated as that continent is, by 
seas and open straits, from other parts of the globe, constitutes an inter- 
esting and unsolved problem. And its solution is still more interesting 
when we reflect that these native races had no maritime skill adequate 
to the construction of ships ; that the state of arts, if we make some 
local exceptions, was very low; that they were without letters or litera- 
ture; and, when qxiestioned as to their origin, they put forth traditions 
which were generally better suited to engage the imagination than to 
satisfy the judgment. 

The extent and noble proportions of the continent, stretching for 
thousands of miles along the Atlantic, and forming a vast and mount- 
ainous barrier between it and the Pacific, entitled it in more than one 
sense to the apiiellation it received by every succeeding navigator of 
th^ Kew World. It was indeed a new world, not less in its grand 
physical structure than for the races of man, who roved over rather 
than inhabited it. And these latter races, now that 354 years have 
passed, are quite as much a problem to historians and philosophers, in 
respect to their early connection and national affinities with the races of 
Asia, Africa, and Europe, as they were then. 

But when we examine this continent in all its sweeping latitudes and 
longitudes, in its highest altitudes, and in its lowest and broadest val- 
leys, we find imbedded in its very geological strata, as well as in its 
surface, ruins and other evidences that it had been inhabited long an- 
terior to the Indian race, — that there had been people of diverse arts 
and habits upon its plains and estuaries. And that, of the red race 
itself, there are evidences of mutations and changes, reaching from mere 
sachemships to rude colossal empires, which, like that of Montezuma, 
broke down, in fact, under the glittering and disproportioned weight of 
their inherent corruptions and barbarisms. 

Forts, mounds, ditches, and works of art, ]:»ottery with the triune 
emblem of the philosophy of Zoroaster, mummies wrajiped in their half 
Miotic cerements, vast pyramidal structures of earth and of stone, pal- 
aces and ruined cities, are among the objects of'its antiquarian and his- 
torical interest. Not only from the romantic and sublime lake of Titi- 
caca, and the fire-crowned peaks of the valley of Mexico, do we jierceive 
centers of population, rushing out to rule and conquer, but from the yet 



ON ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 909 

unexplored plains of the Eio Gila-and the Colorado of California, from 
the broad valley of the Mississippi, from the sontliern slopes of the Ap- 
palachian range of the South Atlantic, and even from the colder lati- 
tudes of the Great Lakes, where the indomitable Iroquois built up their 
republic, we behold a concurring series of facts and discoveries which 
prove incontestably that various races of the wide-spread and original 
family of man have lived, and cultivated, and warred, and died at these 
localities. 

When we come to apply to these vestiges of ancient structure the 
scrutiny of exact observation and description, and to view the facts 
under the lights of induction and historical analysis, we elicit several 
classes of evidence which tend to restore important links in the history 
of the original dispersion of our species, advance us in the scale of knowl- 
edge, and go far to enable us to aj)preciate and understand our position 
on the globe. And in proportion as this investigation is pressed, in 
proportion as science is applied to it, and the current of investigation 
deepened, we abstract from the boundaries of mystery and conjecture, 
and add to these of ascertained facts and history. We thus progress 
indeed in knowledge, and compass one of the noblest ends of being. 

It is in this light that ethnology makes its appeal to modern letters ; 
and I beg leave to bring its claim to your early consideration. It is 
proposed to consider ethnology in the most enlarged sense of which the 
etymology of the word admits as embracing man in his divisions into 
nations ; their affinities and characteristics, mental and physical, with 
such proofs deduced from history, philology, antiquities, and the exact 
sciences, as may serve to link nation to nation, and race to race. In 
this study particular reference is designed to be had to the position of 
the American continent, and to the aboriginal races found upon it, when 
first discovered by Europeans. In this view, it will embrace not only 
geography, antiquities, and history, as descriptive sciences, but likewise 
the early history of arts, ethnography, comparative philology, geology, 
and physiology, and such other collateral sciences as may be found nec- 
essary to investigate, illustrate, and explain the subject. 

The mode of advancing the subject, and carrying into effect the in- 
quiry, so as best to bring out the facts for general information, may 
admit of some diversity of opinion. It is not an inquiry which admits 
of extempore results. To consider diligently the various parts of the 
continent which furnish aliment for the investigation, to scrutinize and 
collate what has been discovered and written, to collect from mounds 
and other sources, in various parts of the world, specimens of ancient 
art, and above all to embody the present and past philology of tribes 
and nations, is a labor requiring time and attention. Much of this, 
when acquired, is hardly of a charticter to sustain popular lectures. It 
may be doubted, indeed, whether in offering researches in a verbal form 
they are not always in danger of suffering from the hands of theory and 
rhetoric. Still, it is a question whether condensed statements of parts 



910 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

of the inquiry may not thus occasioually be thrown out. But whether 
so or not, the inquiries should be printed at a press owned and con- 
trolled by the board, and in a form to correspond with the general style 
and plan of their publications. In what manner compensations should 
be awarded, and whether by a temporary appointment or a fixed pro- 
fessorship, having a residence at the parent Institution, and the benefit 
of its library and collections, in the various departments, may admit of 
consideration. One remark may however be confidently added, that 
without adequate provision for the time, books, and travel incident to 
the inquiry, no person can be expected to enter upon eflective labor in 
this field. 
Outlines of the study are sketched in the following synopsis. 

(I.) OBJECTS OF INQUIRY. 

1. Physical type of man, or physiological traits by which the several races 

of men may be distinguished. 

(a) Ethnographical position on the globe. — Tribes ; nations. {Wiseman.) 
Generic groups. [Blumenbach, Pritchard.) 

2. Material existence. 

(a) Means of subsistence. — In the hunter state : ( Zea maize, roots and 
fruits, flesh of animals ;) Ichthyophagi : (Coast-tribes, crustaceans, 
fish. What species'?) Herdsmen: (Gens des roche, gens des large.) 
Agriculturists : ( What plants cultivated ? how ? and by whom ? 
what agricultural tools? Cotton-plant ; tobacco ; potato.) Concurrent 
facts in natural history. 

(&) Mechanical arts : sMll. — Clothing : skins : bark : hemp-plant ; 
hunting implements ; arms ; imjilements of public games ; fishing im- 
plements : nets : fish-hooks : bone-needles ; navigation ; vessels : native 
cordage ; utensils for preparing food : knives : pots ; potter's art : 
What condition*? vessels of clay — raised by hand or on the wheel? 
boiling. How effected, where no clay pots ? Metallurgy. What facts'? 
Axe of stone, of copper. Trees, how felled ? baskets : twine: awls, of 
bone or horn ; pipes of clay, of stone ; art of dyeing. 

(c) Architecture. — Dwellings, how made ; tools in reference thereto; 
sculpture; painting; monuments of stone, of earth; temples; roads; 
bridges ; teocalli ; mounds ; idols ; baths ; fountains ; sepulchres. 

(3) Intellectual existetice. 

(a) Languages spoJcen and written. 

{b) Geographical names. 

(c) Picture writing. — Hieroglyphics; wampum belts; quippus; in- 
scriptions. 

{d) Arithmetic. — Units: mode and limits of computation; decimal 
system ; vigesimal mode ; high numbers, how denoted. 



I 



ON ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 911 

(e) Measure and division of time. — Day, month, year; astronomical 
facts; chronology, how denoted ; measure of length ; capacity; value, 
(currency.) 

(/) Social state and government. — Civil institutions; political phe- 
nomena; laws, penal and civil ; marriage; distinctions of rank ; castes; 
clans, chieftainships ; descent of titles and rights ; totemic principle, 
how extensive; condition of females; marital rights to property. 

(g) Religious belief and institutions. — Ideas of the Deity ; priesthood, 
how organized ; prophets ; jossakeeds ; metas ; nature of worships ; 
fire worship, how spread ; demonology ; guardian spirits ; compensa- 
tions for sin ; sacrifices ; feasting ; fasting ; dreams ; dancing. 

(Ji) Music and poetry. — Musical instruments; music boards; mnemo- 
nic songs, by symbolic annotation ; rhymes, any ; war chants ; pictorial 
rolls and devices. 

(i) Oral tales and legends. — Historical fictions; allegories; fables; tales 
of amusement; concurrent proofs of imagination {Algic researches). 

(k) Medical hnoicledge. — Lancet; cupping;, pathology of diseases; 
magic, as applied to medicine and hunting ; botanical remedies ; metal- 
lic ; knowledge of anatomy, what ; theory of the circulation of the 
blood. 

(Z) Mythology. — Persian; Egyptian; Chinese; Grecian {Bryant)] 
Koman; American. 

(m) Philosophy of life, death, and immortality. — Ancient cosmogony ; 
notions of creation ; deluge ; monster-era ; transformations ; metemp- 
sychosis ; state of the dead ; ghosts ; witchcraft ; idea of vampires. 

(4) Geographical phenomena as affecting or modifying the physical type and 
the material and intellectual existence. 

Climate ; interior or seaboard position ; natural productions, as affect- 
ing physical development ; tropical and torrid zones ; influence of the 
polar latitudes ; meteorology and topography generally ; effects of snow 
and ice on the physical type, as in the Eskimo. 

(II) MEANS OF ASCERTAINING THE FACTS. 

1. Antiquities and existing monuments. 

(a) Remains of art. — Buildings; antique excavations ; caves; tumuli; 
pyramids; teocalli; military works, ditches, moats, &c. ; columns; arms; 
the arch, how developed; mechanical tools, of stone, lead, copper; the 
lever and wedge; idols; sarcophagi; mosaics; bricks, art of making, 
traced ; pottery, how developed ; gems and other ornaments ; has glass 
ever been found in American ruins of the ancient period ? 

(6) Proofs of mental development in the fine arts and composition.— Jjhws 
of proportion in architecture; painting; statuary and sculpture; picture 
writing; hieroglyphics; phonetic signs; dawning of the alphabet; oral 
tales and traditionary lore; inscriptions. 



912 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

2. Existing intellectual evidences of generic gronps. 

(a) In vocabularies ; (b) dictionaries ; (c) grammars ; {d) plan of ut- 
terance; (e) names of places. (Antique.) 

3. Physiology. 

(«) Skulls; (6) mummies; (c) osteological remains. 

4. Historical relations and tcorks. 

{a) Works ascribed to natives, as in Mexico ; (b) works by Europe- 
ans; (c) missionary translations, &c., modern period; (d) authentic tra- 
ditions of all ages and countries. (Recorded.) 

5. natural History. 

(a) Changes the earth and animated nature have undergone, as de- 
noted by embedded bones; (b) what effects have taken place in the 
superincumbent formations since the existence of mammalia; (c) how 
deep in the geological column can the existence of man be traced; 
{d) general reflex character of geology on the topic. 

6. Mythology, as a proof of mental affiliation in remote and barbarous 

races. 



In reference to all the objects, it is essential to compare the several 
American nations one witn another, and with the leading nations of 
other parts of the globe. In proceeding to explore the subject, the first 
labor must be that of accumulating facts. Visits to the several objects 
of antiquarian interest demanding attention, with proper instruments 
for observation, are required. Field surveys of ruins, and drawings of 
all important objects to be commented on, are essential. Care must 
be taken to notice whether there be more than one era of occupancy, 
or one type of nationality, denoted by the same locality. And with 
the same view the different ages and relative position of the different 
geological formations, embracing ruins, or objects of art, should be care- 
fully noted. Fossil bones of extinct or ancient species of animals, and 
beds or banks of shells of the Eocene or Pliocene deposits, furnish the 
character of evidence denoting separate epochs of occujiiancy, and be- 
come invested with new interest. Traces of organic life of the higher 
species have been found deeper down in the geological column, in later 
days, than were known to the elder geologists, and the vestiges of man 
should be carefully sought in all the unconsolidated strata. We know 
the globe has been disturbed since its creation and destruction, and we 
should be prepared to find physical evidences of it. JSTot only architect- 



ON ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 013 

ure, but metallura}', pottery, sculpture, and drawing' should be inter- 
rogated, in examining their remains, on American soil. Inscriptions 
on rocks are of value, as antiquarian proofs, as well as all traces of the 
ancient method of symbol or picture writing. 

But whatever degree of care is evinced by personal inspection, it is 
essential to the purposes of comparison that a full and complete collec- 
tion of antiquarian objects, and the characteristic fabrics of nations, 
existing and ancient, should be formed and deposited in the Institution. 
By adding to this, from time to time, such implements of art or war, 
articles of costume, or other objects of curiosity, as might be obtained, 
there would be formed, in the end, a museum of mankind, wherein each 
tribe and naition would be characteristically represented. Such a mu- 
seum would, in itself, be a desideratum.* 

Nothing is more characteristic of the intellectual existence of man 
than language. It is found to be a more enduring monument of ancient 
affinities than the physical type, and there is no tribe however situated 
from whom this proof of affiliation should not be obtained. By collect- 
ing a vocabulary and grammar of every known tongue, from printed 
and verbal sources, the Institution would present to the world a library 
of philology which would cause its site to be resorted to from the re- 
motest quarters. In the United States and British North America 
alone we have at least sixty-four dialects and languages.t Nor should 
the mythology of rude nations be neglected. It is the framework of 
their philosophy and their religion, and gives character to their songs 
and poetry and every form of intellectual excitement. 

Finally, both the duty of observation in the field, and the examina- 
tion of facts and evidences in the cabinet or library, may be commenced 
immediately, and need not be delayed until the contemplated buildings 
are completed, and other parts of the library, &c., perfected. Tiuie is 
essential in making preliminarj- examinations. The consideration of the 
country may be taken ujj in a separate and systematic manner, taking 
valley by valley, or State by State. Some portions of the land are more 
prominent in their claims to notice than others; but in all over which 
the tide of modern emigration sets, the evidences of its former occupa- 
tion are rapidly disappearing. The same may be said of the Bed Kace, 
whose language and customs it is wished to preserve. The earlier the 
labor is done, the more easy will be its execution. In the Mississippi 
Valley alone, where so many evidences of the earliest and heaviest 
ancient population exist, but a few years will place the most important 
facts beyond our reach. By adopting the plan suggested, or some plan 
of this nature, we shall rescue from the oblivion of past generations 
matter for thought and reflection for the future. As fast as the in for 

* Many valuable objects of this kind have been bronght home by the exploring ex- 
pedition, and are now deposited in the Patent Office, 
t Gallatin, Am. Ant. Col., Vol. 2: 

H. Mis. 15 58 



914 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



matiou is collected, digested, and prepared, it can be submitted to the 
public. Whatever form for diffusing it the Board may through its 
committees adopt can be conformed to ; and in this way the object 
may at once be made to assume a practical cast. 

In submitting this plan, which has been hastily sketched, and ex- 
pressing at the same time the interest he feels personally therein, the 
undersigned begs leave to subscribe himself, 

With high respect, gentlemen, your obedient servant. 

Henry E. yoHooLCRAFT. 



i 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 

1789-1885. 



By H. Caerington Bolton. 



PREFACE. 



" Index-learning turns no student pale, 

Yet holds the eel of science by the tail." 

Dunciad, I, 279. 

When engaged in researches on the compounds of uranium, nearly 
twenty years ago, the writer compiled for his convenience an index to the 
hterature of the element and of its principal compounds. At the sugges- 
tion of several friends who thought the compilation ought to be placed at 
the disposal of chemists, the manuscript was extended and printed in the 
Annals of the New York Lyceum of i!^atural History (Vol. ix, Feb., 
1870). As published, the index was far from complete ; but the simple 
plan adopted, a chronological arrangement of authorities and references, 
with brief notes of the subject-matter, seems to have commended itself 
to chemists, for the Index to the Literature of Uranium was followed 
by several others similarly arranged. A list of these will be found at 
the close of this preface. 

Impressed by the great importance of index-making, in 1882 the 
writer proposed to the Chemical Section of the American Association 
for the Advancement of Science, at the Montreal meeting, the formation 
of a committee to encourage chemists in a scheme of co-operative in- 
dexing briefly outlined at the time. The Chemical Section kindly ap- 
proved the proposal, and a committee was appointed to " devise and in- 
augurate a plan for the proper indexing of the literature of the chemical 
elements." This committee reported in August, 1883, that it had con- 
sidered three methods of collecting material for the indexes, viz: 

1. Reviewing the Catalogue of Scientific Papers published by the 
Royal Society. (8 vols. 4to.) 

2. Indexing sijecial journals by different individuals and collating 
the matter. 

3. The independent plan, whereby each chemist indexes all the jour- 
nals accessible to him with reference to a given element, in which he is 
presumably especially interested. 

915 



916 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 

Each of these schemes is open to objections and fraught with diflicul 
ties that need not be named. On the whole, the third plan seemed to a 
majority of the committee the only feasible one for the present. The 
report also considers the best arrangement of material, and three ways 
are suggested: (1) chronologically; (2) alphabetically by authors ; (3) 
topically. The committee do not venture to dictate to volunteer and 
independent workers, but recommend the chronological arrangement, 
accompanied by a topical index. 

In September, 1884, the committee further reported that several 
indexes had been published during the twelve months intervening, and 
that more were in progress. They also announced that the Smithsonian 
institution had consented to j)ublish indexes to chemical literature 
indorsed by the committee, limiting somewhat the number of pages 
per annum. The Smithsonian Institution also distributes, free of 
exi)ense, the circulars and publications of the committee. 

The following work is offered as an additional contribution to the series 
of indexes named below. It is, strictly speaking, a second edition of 
that published in 1870, but much new matter has been added and new 
features introduced, so that in reality it forms an entirely new work. 
The edition of 1S70 contains 522 references to papers by 150 authors ; 
the present index contains 1,330 references to papers by more than 300 
authorities. New matter has been incorporated with that of the first 
edition, and the whole has been brought down to the close of 1885, cov- 
ering ;i i)eriod of sixteen years of much activity. In each paragraph 
the first reference following the name of an author is that of the original 
publication of the paper in question; the succeeding references are those 
of reprints or abstracts of the original. 

In accordance with the suggestion of the index committee, two indexes 
have been added — an alphabetical index of authors and a classified in 
dex of subjects. These, it is believed, will materially increase the utility 
of the work. The scheme of classification adopted for the subject index 
is by no means an ideal one. It is not intended to serve as a model for 
others, but it is deemed the most satisfactory attainable with the material 
in hand. Knowing, moreover, that as a rule classification schemes are 
intelligible only to their authors, we have added a synopsis of the clas- 
sification to serve as a key. In using the author and subject indexes, 
it must be I'emembered that they refer to the items in the chronological 
index, and that the contents of each paper are not comiDletely indexed. 
Finally, the list of abbreviations will remove doubts as to the journals 
quoted, and will show at the same time what sets have been thoroughly 
examined. 

H. CARRINGTON BOLTON, 
Chairman of Committee on Indexing Chemical Literature. 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. Dl 7 



LIST OF INDEXES TO CHEMICAL LITERATURE. 

Uranium, Index to the literature of. By H. Cairiugtou Bolton. Annals of the New 
York Lyceum of Natural History, Vol. IX, February. 1870. 15 pp. 8vo. 

Manganese, Index to the literature of; 1596-1874. By H. Carringtou Bolton. Annals 
of the Lyceum of Natural History, New York, Vol. XI, November, 1875. 44 pp, 
8vo. 

Titanium, Index to the literature of; 1783-1876. By Edw. J. Hallock. AnnalB of 
the N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. I., Nos. '2 and 3, 1877. 22 pp. 8vo. 

Vanadium, liidex to the literature of. By G. Jewett Rockwell. Annals of the N. 
Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 5, 1877. 13 pp. 8vo. 

Ozone, Index to the literature of; 1875-'79. By Albert R. Leeds. Annals of the N. 
Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 12, ISBO. , 32 pp. 8vo. 

Peroxide of hydrot/en, The literature of; 18]8-'78. By Albert R. Leeds. Annals of the 
N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 13, 1880. 11 pp. 8vo. 

Electrolysis, Index to the literature of: l784-'80. By W. Walter Webb. Annals of 
the N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. II, No. 10, 1882. 40 pp. Hvo. 

Speed of chemical reactions, Literature of. By Robert B. Warder. Proceedings of 
the Am. Assoc. Adv. Science, Vol. 32, 1883. 3pp. 8vo. 

Starch-sugar, Bibliography of. By Edw. J. Hallock. Appendix E to report on glu- 
cose, prepared by the National Academy of Sciences in response to a request made 
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. TT. S. Internal Revenue, Washington, 
D. C, 1884. 44 pp. 8vo. 

Ozone, Index to the literature of (1879-'83); accompanied by a historical-critical 
r^8um<5 of the progress of discovery since 1879. By Albert R. Leeds. Annals of 
the N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. Ill, p. 137, 1884. W pp. 8vo. 

Peroxide of hydrogen, Index to the literature of; 1879-'83. By Albert R. Leeds. 
Annals of the N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. Ill, p. 153, 1884. 3 pp. 8vo. 

Dictionary of the action of heat jrpon certain metallic salts, including an Index to the 
])rincipal literature upon the subject. Compiled and arranged by .7. W. Raird ; 
contributed by A. B. Prescott. New York, 1884. 70 pp. 8vo. 

Catalogue of chemical periodicals. By H. Carrington Bolton. Annals of the N. Y. 
Academy of Sciences, Vol. Ill, p. 159, 1885. 58 pp. 8vo. 



Committee on indexing chemical literature. 

Dr. H. C. Bolton, of Hartford. 
Prof. Ira Remsen, of Baltimore. 
Prof. F. W. Clarkk, of Washington. 
Prof. A. R. Leeds, of Hoboken. 
Dr. A. A. JULIEN, of New York. 



918 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM. 



I 



CONTENTS 

Page. 

Preface 3 

List of indexes to chemical literature 5 

Committee on indexing chemical literature T) 

Cbrouological index to literature 9 

Section of mineralogy 18 

Alphabetical index to authors 1 22 

Classified index of subjects 28 

Synopsis of classification 2M 

Key to abbreviations 35 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM. 



919 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 



Date. 



17S9 



1789 
1789 
1789 
1790 
1790 
1792 

1793 

1793 

(0 
1795 
1797 

1798 
1799 
1800 
1803 
1805 

1805 



1807 

1810 

1811 
1813 

1814 
1817 

1818 
1818 
1819 
1820 
1821 
1822 



1823 

1823 

1823 

1823 

1823 
1823 



1824 
1825 
1825 

1825 
1826 
1826 
1826 
1827 
1829 



Author. 



£Ijiprotli 



Karsten 

La M6th6rie . 

CreU 

Hecht 

Klapioth 

Hermbstadt 



Klaproth 

Fuchs, G. F. C 



Champeaux 

Saussuie 

Kirwan 



Tvchsen . 

A^B 

Ritter . . . 
Pronst... 
Kicliter . . 



Bucholz 



Thomson . . 

Vauquelia . 

John 

Sulionberg. 



Porrett . . 
Chevreul 



Chevreul . . . . 
Berzelins . . . . 
Clarke, E. D 

Gahn 

BraDiles 

ArtVedson . . . 



Semarks. 



References. 



Discovery of element . 



Nitrate 

Researches 

(oxide). 
Correction . 



and metal 



Metal (oxide) 



Occarrence in France 

Blowpipe reactions 

Methods of decomposing 
minerals. 



Note 

Majnietic proi)ortie3 

"Sil^ne" 

Researches 



Researches 



Berzelins 

Brande 

Lecann & Serbat 

Laagier 

H.Rose 

Berzelins 



Berzelins 
Berthier 
Gmelin . 

Pleischl 
Berzelins 
Berzelius 
Berzelins 
Fischer . 
Fisehsr . . 



Occurrence in sand from 

river Dee. 
Method of decomposing 

uraninite. 

Chromate 

Estim. of atomic weight. . 

Snlphocyanide 

Carbonate of U and K . . . 



Acidity of peroxide . . 

Selenate 

Reduction of U. oxide 
Blowpipe reactions . . . 

Snberate 

Researches 



Fluoride 

Extraction 

Extraction 

Examination of autunite. . 

Sulphide 

Researches and minerals . . 



U soluble in aq 

Oxide 

Physiological action of 
salts. 

lodate 

Snlph-arsenatu 

Snlphocarbonate 

Sulphoniolybdate 

Redact, by metals , 

R«duct. by metals 



Schriften berl. Ges. naturf Fr., IX, 373; 

M6m.acad.roy. sci., Berlin, 1786-87, 100; 

CrelPs Ann., 1789, II, 3h7 ; Ann. ch. phys. 

UJ, rv, J62; Klapr. Beitiiige, II, 197; 

Klapr. Analytical Essays, London, 1801, 

476. 
Schriften berl. Gos. natnrf. Fr , IX, 170. 
Jonrn. de phvs., 1789. 399. 
Journ. de phys., XXXV, 391. 
•Joum. dephvs., XXXVL 53. 
Crell's Ann., 1790, 1, 291. 
Crell's Ann., 1792, II, 311. 

Ann. chim. phys. [1], VI, 175; CreU's Ann. 

1793, II, 151. 
Acta acad. moguntinae, 1793; Ueber Rich- 

ter's Darst.d. Urans, Erfurt,1793. 
Bull. soc. philomath., Pans, VIII. 107. 
Crell's Ann., 1795, 1,210. 
Crell's Ann., 1797, n, 503. 

Trommsd. J. derPharm., V, 121. 

Phil. Mag., 1799, 112. 

Gilbert Ann., IV, 24. 

Gilbert Ann., VIL 127. 

N. Gegenst. der Gh., I. 1 ; IX, 36; Gehlen's 

J., IV, 402. 
Gehlen's J., IV, 17 and 134; Ann. ch. phvs. 

[1], LVL 142; Report. Arts 12], Vm, 274; 

Bucliolz i?eitrago, I, 62. 
Trans. Roy. Soc. Edinb., 1807 ; Phil. Mag., 

1810, 98. 
Ann. chim. phy.s. fl]. LXVin. 277: Nichol- 
son's J., XXV, 69. 
Schweigg. J., II, 332. 
Schweigg. J, XV, 284; Dissert, de conjunct. 

chem. ejusque ration. Upsala, 1813, 18. 
Phil. Trans., 1814. 553. 
J. de phys.. LXXXV. 472: Ann. Phil , XII, 

31. 
Bull, des sci., 1819. 20 ; Ann. Phil., Xn, 144. 
Schweigg. J., XXIII, 457. 
GilbertAnn., LXII. 353. 
Schweigg. J., XXIX. 307. 
Schweigg. J., XXXIII, 100. 
Kong. Vet. Acad. Handl.. 1822, 404; Pogg. 

Ann., 1,245; Schweigg. J., XLIV, 8; Ann. 

ch. phys. [2], XXIX, 148 ; Ann. Phil.. N. S., 

VII, 253: Am. J. Sci., VII. 185; Edinb. 

Phil. J., X, 369; Ann. d. M., X, 130; Beiz. 

Jahresb., II, 120. 
Kong. Vet. Acad. Handl.. 1823, St. II; Ann. 

Phil., XXIV, 337. 
Quart. J. Sci., XIV, 86; Schweigg. J., 

XLIV, 1. 
J. de pharm., IX, 141 and XI, 279 ; Schweigg. 

J., XLIV, 35. 
J. de pharin., IX, 145, XI, 286; Schweigg. J.. 

XLIV, 40; Ann. ch. phys. [21, XXIV, 239. 
Gilb. Ann., LXXIII, 139. 
Kong. Vet. Acad. Handl.. 1823, 155; Pogg. 

Ann., I, 359; Ann. d. M. (IJ, X, 137 and 299: 

SihweiwiT. J., XLIV, 191 ; Berz. Jahresb., 

IV. 117; Ann. Phil., XXV, 266. 
Pog". Ann., II, 149. 
Anii.d. M. [1], X, 141. 
SchwciKg .1.. XLIII. 110; Edinb. Med. and 

Surg. J., XXVI, 130. 
Sehweicrs., XLV, 23. 
Pogg. Ann., VII, 28 and 148. 
Pogg. Ann., VI, 4.56. 
Pogg. Ann., VIL 276. 

Pogg. Ann., IX, 264 ; J. pr. Ch., XXIV, 227 
Pogg. Ann., XVI, 126. 



020 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 
Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885— Continued. 



Date. 



Author. 



ilemarks. 



Keferences. 



1829 



1830 

isao 
isai 

1831 
183:^ 

1834 
J834 



Quesneville. 



Berthemot . 
Stromeyer . 



Davis . 



Berzelius 
Herscbol.. 

Berzelius . 
Persoz . . . 



1833 Persoz. 



1830 
1837 
18.i7 
1838 

1811 

1841 

1841 
1841 
1841 
1841 
to 
1842 

1841 

to 

1842 

1842 



1842 
1842 

1842 

1842 

1842 
1842 



1842 

1843 

1843 

1843 

1843 
1843 



1843 
1844 



1844 



1844 

1844 
1845 



Berzelius . 

Uellcr 

March '.ud 
Weruer . . . 



llegnault . . . 
Plantamour. 



Ramnielsberg. 
Mai chaud . . . . 
WiJliler 



>P6Ugot .. 

.P61igot . . 
Ebeliuen. 



Wittstein. 
Delfls 



Wolilei-- 
Kubu .. 



Fie-^enius . 
Wertheiin 



DelaPi'ovostaye 

RammeLsberg . . . 

Berthier 

Bonaparte 

Kohnke 

Malagiiti 

Cock 

Kammelsbeig. .. 

Rammelsberg . . 

BottLuger 

Mnspratt 

P6iigot 



Extraction 

Bromide 

Pyiopbospbate 

Use as mordant 

Vanadate 

Sep.iratiou from iron by 
K'jFeCys. 

Telluidte 

Sepa; ation by acetate lead 



Separation by CuO and 

HgO. 
Py roi acemate 

Croconare ami rliodizonato 

Sulpbethylate . 

Extraction . 

Specific heat of metal (ox- 
ide). 

Attempt to reduce protox- 
ide. 

SulpbantimoTiiate . 

Atomic weight 

Vd. in Uranpecberz 

Metallic U and general 
researches. 



Metallic TJ and general 

re.searches. 
Researches. Action of 

light ; oxalate, sulphate. 



Extraction 

Carbonate, &c 

Preparation of cryst. TJOa 

Criticism ou P61igot 

Cyanide 

Acetates 

Crystallographic 

Bromate 

Sulphite and separation . 

Valerianate ; action of light 

Technical uses 

Hydratcd sesquioxide . . 



Artificial Uranite 
Uranous salts 

Atomic weight. . 

Separation 

Sulphites 

Tartrates, &c 



J. de pharm., XV, 493; Dingl. pol. J., 
XXXIV, 143; Berz. Jahresb., X, 117; 
Schweigs. J., LVII. 127. 

Ann. ch. pbys. [2J, XLl V, 387. 

Gott. gelebrt. Anz., 1830, I, 111; Schweigg. 
J., LVin, 130. 

Report. Pat. luv., March, 1831, 174; Dingl. 
pol. J., XL 152. 

Pogg. Ann , XX n, 63. 

Ann. ch. phvs., XLIX, 310; Pogg. Ann., 
XXV, 627 ;'Be!z. Jahresb., XIU, 120. 

Pogg. Aun., XXXII, 596 and 608. 

Ann. ch. phvs. [2], LVI, 3:i3 ; J. pr. Ch., 1834, 
III, 216; lustit., No. 70, 299; Berz. Jah- 
resb., XV, 195 ; Po-.'g. Ann., XXXIII, 248. 

Ann. ch. phys. [2], LVIII, 202. 

Pogg. .4.nn.. XXXVI, 24. 

J. \)v. Ch., XII, 2i8 and 239. 

J. pr. Ch.. Xll, 264 : Pogg. Ann., XLI, 629. 

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XXVIII, 240; J. pr. Ch., 

Xn, 381; Dingl. pol. J., LXVLEI, 465. 
Aun. Ch. Pharm., XXXVI, 108; Bern,. Jah- 
resb.. XXI, 13. 
J. pr. Ch., XXUI, 230; Pharm. Centr., 1841, 

592. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm.. XL, 286. 
J. pr. Ch., XXIII, 497. 
Pogg. Ann., LIV, 6U0. 
C. R., XII, 735; J. pr. Ch., XXIII, 494; 

XXIV, 442; J. de pharm., XXVII, 525; 

Ann. ch.phys. [3], V, 1; Ann. Ch. Pharm., 

XLI, 141. 
Ann. Ch. Pbarm., XLIII, 255 : Pharm. Centi-., 

1842,321 and 847; Berz. Jahresb., XXTT, 

113; XXIII; Fosg.Anii., LIV, 122. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLIII, 286; Ann. ch. phvs. 

[3J, V, 189: Pharm. Centr., 1842, 863; J. 

pr. Ch., XXVII, 385; Berz. Jahresb., 

XXIII. 
Bnchiier'sRepert., LXUI, 231. 
Pogg Ann., LV, 229; Berz. Jahresb., XXUI, 

21)1. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLI, 343 ; Berz. Jahresb., 

XXUI ; Journ.de Pharm. [3], H, 43. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLI, 337 ; Pharm. Centr., 

1842, 324. 

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLIII, 135. 

Mon.it.-<b. d. berl. Akad., 1842; J. pr. Ch., 

XXIX, 209 ; Ann Ch. Pharm., XLIV, 274 ; 

Ann. ch. phvs. [3], XI, 49; Anouaire 

chim., 1845, 118; Pharm. Centr., 1843. 585; 

Pogg, Ann., LVU,48i. 
Ann. ch. phys., V. 47; VI, 165; Berz. 

Jahresb., XXIII. 213. 
J.pr Ch., XXIV,2S5; Berz. .Jahresb., XXII, 

140. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., XL VI, 184 ; Pharm. Centr., 

1843, 382. 

J. pr. Ch., SXX, 308 ; Pharm. Centr., 1843, 

949. 
Wiener polvt. J., 1843, 1117. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLVIII, 236: Aun. ch. 

phys., IX, 463 ; Annuaire cbim., 1845, 1 18; J. 

pr."Ch.,XXIX, 231: C. R., XVI, 851 ; Pharm. 

Centr., 1843,590; Berz. Jahresb., XXIV, 

118. 
Proc. Chem. Soc. Lond., I, 38. 
Ann Ch. Pharm., XLVIIL 234;Pogg. Ann., 

LV, 318 ; LVI, 125 ; LIX, 10 ; Berz. Jahresb., 

xxni. 

Pogg. Ann., LIX, 1 ; J. pr. Ch., XXIX, 234 ; 

Berz, Jahresb., XXIV, 117 ; Pharm. Centr., 

1843, .577. 
Aun. Ch. Pharm., LI, 407; Pharm. Centr., 

184,5, 107. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., LV, 290. 
C. R., XVIII, 6?2 ; Aunuairechim., 1845, 117; 

Ann.ch. phvs., XII, 549; Ann. Ch. Pharm., 

LVI, 230 ; Pharm. Centr., 1845, 193. 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 021 
Index to the literatwe of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Continued. 



Date. 


Author. 

Pliiyfair aud Jonle. . 
Wohler 


Remarks. 


References. 


1845 
1845 


Spr. gr. aud at. vol. of 

oxides. 
Purification from Co Ni 

and Zu. 


Mem. Chem. Soc. Lond., TIT, 83. 

Ann. Cb. Pharm., LVI, 127 : Annuaire chim., 


1846 


15erzelixis 


1847, 94. 
Berz. Jahresb., XXV, 162. 


1846 


Petei'a 


Extraction 

Pvrotartrate 


Arch, der Pharm., XL"V^II, 146; Pharm. 


1847 


Arppe 

Eu£;<-lhci(lt a u d 

Maddrell. 
Persoz 

P61isot 


Centi-.. 1846, 831. 
luaug. Diss.. Helsingf., 1847 ; Ann. Cli. 


1847 




Pharm., LXVI, 7;i. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., LXIII, 99. 


1847 
1847 


Pyrophosphate 

Atomic weight 

Phosphates and arsenates. 

Extraction on large scale . . 

Estimation of phosphoric 

acid. 
Red sulphide 

Selenites 

Fluorescence of uranium 
glass. 

Extraction 

• 

Detection by absorption 

spectrum. 
Sulphite 

Crystallographic forms 

of acetate. 
Extraction on largo scale . . 

Fluorescence 

Optical examination 

Oxychloride and organic 

bases. 
Oxychloride of D" and 

ciiinoline. 

Dialysis of nitrate 

Puriiication of U yellow. . 


Ann. chim. phys. [3], LXV, 165; Jahresb., 

1847-48, 353. 
C. R., XXII, 487 ; Ann. Ch. Pharm., LX, 183, 


1848 


Werther 


Ann. ch. phys. 13], XX, 329; J. pr. Ch.; 
XT,I, 398; andXXXVill, 152; Jahi'esb., 
1848, 418 ; Jouru. de pharm [3 , X, 80. 
J. pr. Ch., XLIII, 321; XLIV, 127; Ann.Ch, 


1849 


Patera 


Pharm., LXVIII. 312 ; Pharm. Centr., 1848. 
433; Instit., 1848, 393; J. de pharm. 13J, 
XIV, 57: Annuaire chim., 181S, 140 and 
144 ; PhU; Mag. [3], XXX1II,244 ; Jahresb., 
1S49, 418audl2i8. 
"Wien. Acad. Ber., 1849, 353; "Wien. Ber. 


1849 
1850 

1850 


Leconte 

Patera 

Muspratt 


Freund. d. Wiss., IV; J. pr. Ch., XLVl, 
182; Jahresb., 1849, 274, 584. 
C. R., XXIX, 55 ; Jahresb., 1849, 572. 

J. pr. Ch., LI, 122; ATin. Ch. Pharm., 
l.X.^S.Yl. 254; Pharm. Centr., 1851,402; 
Jahresb., 1850, 313; Annuaire chim., 1851, 
118. 

J. Chem. Soc, 11, 68. 


1852 


Stokes 


Phil. Mag. [4], IV, 388; Pogg. Ann., 

LXXXVn, 488; Am. J. Sci. [2], XV, 270; 

Jahresb.. 1853, 140; Ann. chim. phys. 13], 

XXXVni, 505. 
Arch. Pbarm. [2], LXIX, 150; J. pr. Ch., 

LV, 445 ; Dingl. pol. J., CXXIV, 355 ; 

Pharm. Centr., 1852, 232; Jahresb., 1852, 

779. 
Instit., 1852, 392; Jahresb., 1854, 125. 


1852 


Giesecke 


1852 


Stokes 


1852 


Girard . 


C. R. XXXIV 22 ■ Ann. Ch. Pharm., 


1852 


Schabus 


LXXXl. 3U6; Pharm. Centr., 1852. 100; J. 
pr. Cli., LV, 285; J. de phann. [3], XXI, 
183; Jahresb., 1852, 376. 
Jahresb., 1852, 433. 


1853 

1855 

1855 
1855 
1856 

1856 


Patera 

Werther 

Marbach 

WilUams, C. Gr 

"Williams, C. Gr 

Graham 


Wien. Acad. Ber., XI, 842; J. pr. (;h., LXI, 

397; I'haim. Centr., 1854, 2:iO; DingL pol. 

J., CXXXII, 30; Chem. Gaz., 1854, 178; 

Jahresb., 1853, 740. 
J. pr. Ch., LXV, 349; Pharm. Centr., 185.5, 

605; PhU. Mag. [4], X, 390; Jahresb., 1855, 

133. 
Poga. Ann. XCIV, 422; Ann. chim. phys. 

[3], XLIV, 45. 
Chem. Gaz., 1855, 450; C. C, 1856, 47 ; Tran.s. 

Rov. Soc. Edinb. ; Jahresli., 1855. 
Trans. Rov. Soc. Edinb., XXI, part HI, 377 ; 

Chem. Gaz., 1856, 261, 283; J. pr. Chem. 

LXIX, 3.35; C. C, 1856, 817; .labres .., 

18;.C, 532. 
J. Chem. Soc, VIII. 91. 


1856 


Patera 


Dine pol. J., CXLL 372; C. C. 1850, 843; 

Polyt Centr., 1857, 75 ; J. pr. Ch., LXIX, 

118; Oestr. Zeits. Berg u. liutt., 18.36, 31. 
J. pr. Ch., LXIX, 401; C. C, 1806, 738 

and 803; Jahresb., 1856. 728. 
C. C, 1856,717; J. pr. Chem., LXVII. 485: 

Jahresb., 1850,331. 
Poo-g. Ann., XCIX, 275; J.-ihreab., 1850. 


1856 


TTnnp . . 


1856 


Scheibler 


Acetate of U and Li 

Crystallographic form of 

carbonate. 
Preparation of metallic 

U. 


1856 


Keferstein 


1856 


P61igot 


380 ; J. pr. Chem., LXIX, 303. 
C. R., XLU, 73; Instit., 1850, 29; J. do 






pharm. [3], XXIX, 203; Ann. Ch. Pharm., 
XCVn, 250; Pogg. Ann., XCVII, 030; 
J. pr. Ch., LX"VLI1, 184 ; C. C, 1850, 223 ; 
Jahresb.. 1856,380; Phil. Mag., 1857, 123. 



922 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 
Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Continued. 



1857 

1857 
1857 
1858 
1858 

1858 



1858 
1858 

1858 



1858 
1858 
3858 



1858 

1859 

1859 
1859 

1859 

1859 

1859 

1859 



1859 
186U 
18GU 
1860 
1860 
1860 

1860 
1860 



1861 

1861 
1861 

1861 

1861 

1861 

1861 



Author. 



Kessler 

Burnett 

Arondt aud Kuop . 

Ordway 

Weselsky 

Briancbou 

Spiller 

Ciespon & Godefroy 

Hagen 

Grailich 

Veidet 

Niopcede St. Victor. 

Niepce de St. Victoi' 

Niepce de St. Victor . 



Becqueiel 

Ulirlaub 

Hallwachs and Scha- 

larik. 
Piiicu.s 

Wysocky 



N. de St. Victor and 
Corviaart. 

Corvisart 

Rose 

Do Luynes 

Burnett .... 

Wothly 

Wothly 

Sutton 

Anthoa 



Drenkmann 

Becquerel . . 
Hermann, H 

Fresenius .. 

Graham 

Schrauf . . . 

Pisani 



Remarks. 



Extraction from nrani- 
nite. 



Photographic prints . . . 

Extraction 

Basic salts 

Acetates 

Technical uses 

Influence of citric acid 
Photography 

Photographic printing 



Cryst. and Opt. studies . 
Magnetic rotary power . 
Absotption of light and 
use in photography. 



Absotption of light aud 
use in photography. 



Absorption of light and 
use in photography. 



Phosphorescence 
Nitride 



References. 



Action . of U on iodide 

etb\le. 
Estimation of phosphoric 

acid ^vith acetate of U. 
Extraction on large scale 



Action of light on oxalate 



Action of light 

Estimation 

Photugrajihic printing. . 

Aitinoiiietiy 

Otiginal announcement . 
U with PtCl of Wothly 's 

proces.s. 
E.stimation of phos. acid 
Ext Taction 



Historical summary and 
researches. 

Phosphorescence 

Researches 

Estimation 

Saccharate 

Optical examination of 

acetate. 
Estunavion and mineral 

analyses. 



J. de pharm. [3], XXXI, 182 ; C. R., XLVI, 

530 ; Dingl. pol. J., CXLIX, 77 ; C. C, 1858, 
336; Polyt. Cent., 1858, 1513; Jahresb., 

1857, 199; Verb. d. Niederostr. Geworbe- 
vereins, 1858, 293. 

Liverpool Phot. J., 1857 and 1858 ; Humph- 
rey's J., 1857,81; 1858, 44. 

C. C, 1857, 102 ; J. pr. Ch., LXXI, 68; Jah- 
resb., 18.57, 200. 

Am. J. .Sci. [2], XXVI, 197; J. pr. Chem., 
LXXVI, 19; Jabresb., J858, 115. 

Wien. Acad. Ber., XXX, 205; Chem. Gaz., 

1858, 390; J. pr. Cb., LXXV, !.5; C. C, 
1858, 610; Jabresb., 1858, 282. 

G6nie Indust., 1858. 147; Technologiste, 

1858, 521; Polyt. Centr., 1858, 1242; Umgl. 

pol. J., CXLVni, 172; C. C, 1858, 698; 

Polyt. Centralballe, 1858, 670. 
J. Chem. Soc, X, 114. 
Polyt. Centr., 1858, 1509; Humphrey's J., 

1858, 172. 
Ber. Akad. Wiss. Berl., 1858, 290; Brit. J. 

Phot., V, 75; Humphrey's J., 1858, 202 ; J. 

pr. Ch., LXXIV, 07; Dingl. pol. J., 

CXLIX, 437; C. C, 1858, 764; Tnstit., 

1858, 268. 
Wien. Acad. Ber., XXVII, 3. 
Ann. chim. phys. [3], LII, l.'")8. 
C. R., XLVI, 449; I«stit., 1858, 73; Dingl. 

pol. .J., CXLVin, 126; J. pr. Ch., 

LXXIV, 233,Cimento, VII, 202; Jahresb., 

1858, 18. 
C. R., XLVn, 866 and 1002; Instit., 1858, 

398 and 427: Humphrey's J., 18.i8, 10; 

Dinsl. pol. J., CLI, 130 and 435; Jabresb., 

1858, 20. 
C. R.. XLIX. 815; Dingl. pol. J., CLV, 

4.^6; Jabresb.. 1859. 33; Co.smos, XIV, 

568; Polyt. Centr., 1859, 889 and 1032. 
Ann. cffim. phys. [3], LV, 86, and LVIL 101. 
Verbiud. einiger Met. mit Stickstotf, Got- 

tingen, 1859, 27. 
Ber. Acad. Wiss. Wien, XXXIII, 569; 

Pharm. Centr., 1859, 163. 
J. pr. Cb., LXXVI, 104; Jahresb., 1869, 

667. 
Oest. Zeitschr. Berg- u. Hiittenw., 1859; 

Din^l. pol. J., CLV, 305; C. C, 1860, 327 ; 

Polyt. Centr.. 1860, 139; -Jabresb., 1860, 

098." 
C.R., XLIX, 368; Instit., 1859, 287; Ann. 

Cb. Pharm., CXIII, 112 ; Diugl. j,ol. J., 

CLVL, 38; .labresb., 1859, 33. 
Bull. soc. chim., J862, 02; Jahresb., 1859, 33. 
Pogg. Ann., ex. 141. 

Brit. Photogr. J., 1860 ; Polyt. Centi-., I860. 
Phil. ]\Iag. [4], XX, 50 and 40(3. 
Horn's Photog. J., XVI, 104. 
Polyt. Centr., 1860. 

Chem. Kew.s, I, 97, 192; Jahresb., 1860, 622. 
Dingl. pol. J., (JLVI, 207 and 288; Zeitschr. 

Ch. Pbiirm., 1860, 412; R6p. chim. appl., II., 

281 ; C. C, 1860, 549 and 591 ; Polyt. Centr., 

1860,1118, and 1274. 
Zeitschr. ges. Naturw., XVTI, 113 ; Jahresb., 

1861, 25.5. 
Ann. chim. phys. [3], LXII, 42. 
Inaug. Dissert. Gott., 1861 ; Jahresb., 1861, 

258 
J.pr. Ch., LXXXn, 257 ; Chem. News, 1861, 

150. 
J, Chem. Soc. XV. 254; Ann. Ch. Pharm., 

CXXI 52; Jabresb , 1861, 77. 
Pogg. Ann., CXU, 593. 

C. R., LII. 72 and 817 ; R6p. chim. pur.. Ill, 
222 and 639 ; Zeitschr. Cb. Pharm., 1861, 
123; J. pr. Ch., LXXXV, 186; C.C, 1861. 
221 ; Chem. News, lU, 211 ; Jahresb., 1861, 
824 and 1030. 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 923 
Index to the literature of Uranitim, 1789-1885 — Continued. 



Date. 



Author. 



1861 

1862 

1862 

1802 
1862 

1862 



1862 
1862 

1863 



1864 

1864 

1864 
1864 

1864 



1864 



1865 
1865 
1865 



1865 

1865 
1865 

1865 
1865 
1865 
1865 
1866 
181)6 



1866 
1866 



1866 



Debray 

Vogelsang . 
Burghess . 

Simpson . . . 

Diaper 

Maack 

Rose, H . . . 

Brachet 

Parkmann . 

Guyard - . . . 

Phipson - . . 

Stolba 

Grot he 

Hoyermann 

Reniel6 . - . 



Liesegana; 



Von Hauer 

Knop 

Keiue'!6 



Gibbs 



Reme]^ . . 
Seekanip 



Bemarks. 



References. 



Tunny 

Wotbly 

Wotbly .... 
Liesegang 

Eisner 

Biiiispii . . 

Commaille 
WyeocUy. . 

Belohonbek 



Artificial crystallized 
jjhosphiites. 

Technical 

Toning bath 

Action of light - 

Action of light 

Action of Al and Mg on 

solution 

Estimation 

Use of TJ glass 

Carbonate 

Volumetric estimation. . . 



Action of Mg on solutions. 

Estimation, silico-fluoride . 

Action of alkalies. &c 

Estimation of phosphoric 

aciil. 
Oxysulphide 



Action of light on ammo- 
nio citrate, and photo- 
graphy. 

Acetatti 

E.stimation 

Estimation audsoparation ; 
oxysulphide. 



Sepaiation . 



Sulphite 

Action of light on the 
succinato. 



Photography 

Wothly type 

Specification of patent 

Photography 

Volatility ofUOs 

Flame reactions 



Action of Mg on solutions 
Manufactnie of U yellow . 



Volumetric estimation — 



Ann. chim. phys. [3], LXI, 445. 

Preuss. Zeitschr. Berg-.H. n. Salin., X, 168. 
Poht. Centv., 1862, 1590 ; Am. J. Pliotog., 

1862. 
Am. J. Photog., Vn. 295. 
Brit. J. Photog., n.241. 
Verhalt. des Mg. und Al. 7.u Salzlosungen, 

Gottingen, 18(i2, 32. 
Pogg. Ann., CXVI, ;152 ; OX, 141; Zeitschr. 

anal. Ch., I, 411 ; Rdp. chim. i)ur., V, 27; 

Chem. Ne^rs, VII, 1.59 and 99; C. C, 1862, 

863; .Jahiesb., 1862, 601. 
C. R., LV, 409. 
Am. .J. Sci. f2], XXXIV, 321 ; Chem. News. 

1863, 122 ; C. C, 181,3, 465. 

Bull. soc. chim., 1864, I, 94 ; Jahresb., 1863, 
692; Chem. News, 1864, 13; Zeitschr. anal. 
Oh., ni, 376. 

Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond., XTTT, 217 ; Jahresb., 

1864, 193. 

Zeitschr. iinal. Ch.. HI, 71; CO., 1864, 1053; 

Jahresb., 1864, 718. 
J. pr. Chem., XCII, 177. 
Arch. Pharm. [2], XCIX, 193 ; Jahresb., 1864, 

091. 
C.R., LVin,716; Bull. soc. chim. [2], I, 36; 

N. Arch. ph. nat., XX, 52 ; Ann. Ch. I'harra. 

Suppl., 111,196; Pogg. Auii,CXXIV, 114; 

J. pr. Ch., XCIII, 316; 0.0,1864, 596; 

Chem. News, X, 123 and 158; Jahiesb., 

1864,234. 
Monit. photogr. 1864, No. 17, Nov. 25; Bull. 

soc. chim. II 482 ; Chem. News, 1865, 103 ; C. 

C, 1865,1151. 
Pogg. Ann., CXXV, 149 ; CO., 1865,735. 
0. C, 1865, 161 ; Jahresb., ISO.i, 223. 
Pogsr. Ann., OXXV. 209; Zeitschr. anal. Ch., 

IV, 371; Zeitschr. Ch., 1805, 548; 1866, 471; 

J. pr. Ch, XCVII, 193 and 280; Bull. soo. 

chim.. VI, 318; CO , 1866, 628; Jahresb., 

1865, 2J1 and 726 

Am. J. Sci. [2], XXXIX, 58 ; C. C, 1865, 407 ; 

J. pr. Chem., XCV, 357: Zeitschr. anal 

Chem. Ill, 327 ; Zeitschr. Chem., 1805, 307; 

Dingl. pol. J., OIXXVIII, 133; Chem 

News, XI, ]01,e«seg.,- Jahresb., 1865,727. 
Pogg. Ann. CXXV, 238 ; Jahresb., 1865, 225; 

J. pr. Chem., XCVII, 214. 
Ann. Ch, Pharm., CXXXin, 253; Zeitschr. 

Chem.. 186.5. 317; <;. C, ;865, 767; J. pr. 

Chem., XOVI, 192 ; Bull. soc. chim. [2], IV, 

1.32 ; J. de pharm. [4], II, 67 ; Phil. Mag. [41 

XXX, 358 ; Jahresb., 1865, 389. 
Humphreys, J., Jan., 1865, Bull. soc. chim.. 

III. 320." 
Bull, beige photog., 1864; Am. J. Photog., 

VII, 1865. 
Polyt. Centr., 1865, 943; Photog. Archives, 

1865. 
Monit. pbotogr. Jan. 1, 1865'; Bull. soc. chim. 

Ill, 159. 
Chem. techn. Miitheil, 1857-'58, 36; Jahresb., 

1866, 35 ; J, pr. Ohem.. XCIX, 260. 

Ann. Ch. Pharm. CXXXVIII, 291 ; Zeitschr, 
anal. Chem. V, 377 ; Phil. :Mag. [4], XXXII, 
81 ; N. Arch. pb. nat. XXVII., 25 ; Jahresb., 

1866, 783. 

Bull. soc. chim. [2], VI, 257. Jahresb., 1866,171 
Oestr. Zeit. Berg- u. Iliittw., 1866; Polvt. 

Centr., 1808, 1601; Dingl. pol. J., CLXXXI. 

448; Jahresb. chem. Tech., 1866. 275; Hull. 

soc. chinj. [2], VI, 494; Jahresb., 1806, 840. 
J. pr. Oh., XCIX, 231; Zeitschr. anal. Ch., 

VI, 120; Zeitschr. Ch., 1807, 121; C. 

1867, 656; Bull. soc. chim. [2], VII, 494; 
Jahresb., 1866, 809. 



924 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF' URANIUM, 1789-1885. 
Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Continued. 



Date. 



Author. 



1866 Patera. 



186G 
1866 

1867 
1867 

1867 
1867 



1867 
1867 



Friacb. 



Bultoa . 



Skey .... 
Souohay 

Graham . 
Scheller . 



Ed. Becquorel . 
Pinner 



1867 Kammelsberg 

1868 Merz 

18C8 P61i<:ot and Valen- 

cienue.s. 



1869 

1869 
1869 

1869 

1869 

1809 
1869 
1869 
1870 
1870 

1870 
1870 

1870 
1870 



1870 
1871 

1871 



Heintz 

Thaldn 

Reichardt. 

Bolton '. . 

Winkler ."'. 

Byasson 

SoUiorst 

Thudichum 

Bolton 

Sorby 

Meyer, L 

Schwarz . 

Schultz-Sollack- 
MondclejefT 

Bolton 

Schultz-Sellack. 

Schnltz-SeUack 



Bemarka. 



Estimation of U in ores.. . 



Tartrate . 



Fluoiides, oxyfluorides ; 
action of light. 



Snlphocy anide . 



Composition of the by- 
drated ammoniacul car- 
bonate. 

Soluble modification of 
oxide. 

Sulphites 



Cyanides 

PbosT)hlte^ - . 

Fluorescence 

Mauuf.tctute of the metal 



Recoverjf of residues. 



Keferenoes. 



Wave lengths of light rays 

Separation from phos- 
phoric acid. 



Action of light ; historical 
summary and experi- 
ments. 

Eatimation ; a correction.. 

Estimation of phosphoric 

acid. 
Non - fluorescence of IT 

salts in Geissler tubes. 
Absorption spectrum . . . 

Index to the literature 

of TJ. 
Absorption spectrum of 

compounds of Zr and U. 



Atomic weight 

Coloring porcelain. 



Hydrated nitrate 

At. -wt* and position of TJ 
in the Periodic System. 

Extraction from ui aninite . 
Disulphate 



Basicity of oxide. 



DingLpol. J., CLXXX, 242; Zoitschr. anal. 
Ch, V, 228; Bull. soc. chim. [2], V, 442; 
Jahresb. chem. Tech., 1866.274: LesMon- 
dea, 1806, 2J4 ; Dingl pol. J., CLXXX, 242 ; 
Polyt. Notizbl., 1866, 222; Deutsche In- 
dustrie Ztg., 1866, 20S; Chem. Xews, Xm, 
291; Polyt. Centr., 186"6, 831; Jahresb., 
1866, 809 

J. pr.Chem. XCVH, 281; Zeitschr. Chem., 
1866, 345; C. C, 1866, .098; Bull. soc. chim. 
[21, VII, 257: Jahresb, 1806, 401. 

Berl. Akad. Ber., 1866, 299; Inaug. Diss., 
Gottmgen, 1866; Bull. soc. chim. [2], VI, 
450; Zeitschr, Ch. [2], II. 353; J, pr. Ch. 
XCIX, 269; C. C, 1866, 977 ; N. Arch. ph. 
nat., XXVI, .{38; Jahresb., 18U6, 209. 

Chem. News, XVI, 201 ; Zeitschr. Chem. [2], 
IV, 123. 

Zeitschr. Chem [2], IV, 527; Zeitschr. anal. 
Chem., VI, 400 ; Bull. soc. chim., X, 375. 

Ann. Ch. Pharm. CXXI, 52, Jahresb., 1807, 

77. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., CXLIV, 238: J. pr. Chem., 

CIV, 56; Zeitschr. Chem , 1867, 522; Bull. 

soc. chim. [2], VIII, 417; Zeitschr. anal. 

Chem. VII, 252 ; Chem. News, XVI, -432. 
Etudes chim. sur quelq. motaux, Paris, 1867. 
De uranylio cyan, et rhodan. Berlin, Inaug. 

Dissert., 1867. 
Pogg. Ann. CXXXni, 500. 
J. pr.Chem. CI, 261; C C 1868, 99. 
C. R.LXVn, 507; Ann.Ch. Pharm ,CCXLIX, 

128; C. C, 1869, 1040; Dincl. pol. J., CXC, 

305; J. pr. Chem. CVI,"255; J.ahresb., 

chem.Techn., 1808, 152; Jahresb., 1868, 226; 

Instit. 1868, 306; Ann. chim. phvs. [4], 

XVII, 308; Zeitschr. Chem. 1868, 716. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm , CLI„ 216. 
Am. J. Sci. [2J, L, 113. 
Jahresb., 1869, 2S6 ; Chem. News, XX, 166. 
Nova acta Reg Soc. Sc. Upsal. [3], VI. 
Ann. chim. phys. 14], XVIIl, 239. 
Zeitschr. anal. Chem., VUl. 110; Chem. 

News, XX, 167; Am. J. Sci. [2] L, 113; 

Zeitschr. Chem., 1870, 92; Archiv der 

Pharm. [3], II. 232; Jahresb., 1869, 916. 
Am. J. Sci. [2], XL VIII, 206 ; Jahresb., 1809. 

1176: Chem. News, XX, 213. 

Zeitschr. anal. Chem., VIII, 387; C. C, 1870, 

530; Jahresb., 1869, 916; Chem. News, 

XXI, 167. 
Pharm. Centralh., IX, 41 ; Russ. Zeitschr. 

Pharm., VIII, 30 ; Jahresb., 1869, 977. 
Rev. hebd. chim., Dec. 2, 1869 ; Chem. News, 

XX, 299. 
Centralbl. f med. Wissenach., 1869, 1; C. C, 

1869, 67 ; J. pr. Chem.. CVI, 415. 
Annals. Lye. Nat. Kist., IX, 362 ; Am. Chem., 

I, 81. 

Chem. News, XXI, 73; Zeitachr. anal. 
Chem., IX, 258; C.C., 1870, 369; Ber. d. 
chem. Ges., 1870, 147; Bull soc chim,, 
XIV, 40. 

Ann. Chem. Pharm., Suppl., VTI, 354; .Jah- 
resb., 1870, 14. 

Dingl. pol. J., CXCVII, 251; Pol. NotizM., 

1870, 290; C. C, 1870, 557; Jahresb., 1870, 
1155; Jahresb. chem. Techn., 1870, 306. 

Zeitschr. Chem., 1870, No. 19 ; Chem. News, 

XXni, 47. 
N. Petersb. Acad. Bull.. XVT, 45; Ber. d. 

chem. Ges., 1870, 991; Ann. Chem.Pharm., 

Suppl., Vm, 178; Jahresb., 1871, 312. 
Am. Chem., I, 50. 
Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1871, 13 ; Am. J. Sci. [3], I, 

374; Am. Chem., 1, 469. 
Ber. d. chem. Ges., IV. 12 ; J. Chem. Soc. [2], 

IX, 199 ; Bull. soc. chim., XV, 45 ; C. C, 

1875, 87; Jahresb, 1871, 332; Chem. News, 

XXIIl. 131. 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 925 

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Continued. 



Date. 

1871 

187i 
1871 



1872 
1872 
1872 

1872 

1872 

1872 
1872 




Rheineck . 



J;mi 
Jani . 



Hasionbach 
Si'huiuauu 
Bracket 



Taylor. 
Joan... 



Bolton 

Rammelsberg 



1872 Rammelsberg 



1872 
1872 



1872 

1872 

1873 

1873 
1873 
1873 

1873 

1873 



1873 

1873 

1873 

1873 
1873 

1873 
1873 



1873 



1874 



Bolton - . . 
Follomus . 



Becquerel 



Rammelsberg , 
Lockyer 



Gibbs ... 
Kreusler . 
Joulie . . . 



Clarke, F."W. 
Reichardt ... 



Cronander 

Schnauss . 

Gautiei' . . 

Patera 

Kitcbin .. 



Abp«spr, Jani, aud 

Marcker. 
Morton and Bolton . . 



Gibbs. 



Koscoe. 



Remarks. 



TTee of acetate of U and 
Na iu I'stimaliug phos- 
phoric acid. 



U solution in titration of 

P2O6. 
Recovery of residues 



Fluorescence of TJ glass. 

Estimation <if pbos. acid. 

Use of IT gla.ss in electri- 
cal illumination. 

As sensitizer in photogra- 
phy. 

Blow-pipe test 



Tetrethylammonium U . . 

Uranous acetates n ith 

copper, and with cobalt. 

Formnla3 when U = 240. . , 



Thallium uranate 

Titration with potassium 
permanganate. 

Fluorescence 

Hypophosphite 

Occnrrence in the sim 

Arseniate ... 

Reco'^ery of residues 

Use in "estimating phos- 
phoric acid. 

Specific gravity of com- 
pounds. 

Separation from phos- 
phoric acid by means of 
magnesia mixture. 

Chloride of U and P 



Use of nitrate in photog- 

r.ipliy. 
Hypophosphite 

Commercial and industrial 
Est. of P as uranio phos- 
phate, and At. Wt. 

Use in estimating phos- 
phoric acid. 
Pluonsci'Dt and absorp- 
tion spectra. 



References. 



Separation from Cr 



Pentachlorido . 



Diuirl. pol. J.; C.C. 383; Zeitschr. Chem., 

1871, 474; Chem. News, XXIV, 233; Bull. 
ROC chim. [■-'], XVII. 37 ; J. Chem. Soc. [J], 
X, 178; Zoitsclir. aual. Chem., XI, 83; Am. 
Chem., II, 100; Jahresb., 1871,941. 

C. C, 1871, 329 ; J. Chem. Soc. [2], IX, 7.53. 

C.C, 1871, 210; J. Chem. Soc. [2], IX, 580; 

Am. Chora., I. 472: Jahrcsb., 1871, 331; 

Chem. Xews, XXIII, 220 ; Zeitschr. anal. 

Chem, XI, 71. 
Pogij. Ann., CXLVI, 393. 
J. py. Chem. [-J], VI. 410 ; Jahresb., 1872, 896. 
C. 11., XXn, No. 16 ; Am. Chem., II, 191. 

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1872, 820. 

San Francisco Sc. XXIII. 13 ; Berg- und hiitr 

ten-Ztg., XXX,414; C.C, 1872,213. 
Am. Chem., II, 456; Jahresb., 1872, 259. 
Pogo. Ann., CXLV, 158; Jahresb., 1872, 

259; Bull. soc. chim. [21, XVII, 209; J. 

Chem. Soc. [2], X, 401 ; Am. Chem., II, 431. 
Ber. d. chem. Ges.. 1872, 1003; Jahresb., 1872, 

257; Bull. soc. chiin.. XIX, 210; J. Chem. 

Soc, 1873, 247 ; C. C. 1873. 127 ; Am. Chem., 

IV, 148: Chem. Xews, XXVII, 22. 
Am. Chem., II, 456 ; Jaliresb , J872, 255. 
Zeitschr. nnal. Chem., XI, 179; Jahresb , 1872. 

915; J. Chem. Soc, 1873, i>31 ; C. C, 1872, 
600. 
C. R., LXXV, 296; Am. J. Sci. f:ij, IV, 486; 
Auk. chim. ph vs. [4], XXVII, 539 ; JUhresb., 

1872, 152; C.C. ,1873, 17. 

J. Chem. Soc.; 1873, 11 : Ber. d. chem. Ges., 

1872, 495. 

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1873, 1554; Proc Roy. Soc, 

XXI, 285 and 508 ; Jahresb., 1873. 1,53. 
Ber d. chem. Ges., 1873, >-34. 
J. fiir Landw., 1873, 1 : Am. Chem., IV, 316. 
Chem. Xews, XXVlI, 228, 309, 314 ; Jahresb., 

1873, 922. 

Constants of Nature, "Washington, D. C, 1873. 

Arch, der Pharm. [3], 2, 232; Jahresb., 1873, 

924; Jour. Chem. Soc, 1873, 12C0; Zeitschr. 

aual. Chem.. Xin, 310; C.C, 1873,356; 

Am.Chem., IV. 276 ; Chem. News, XXVUI, 

315. 
Ber. d. chem. Ges., VI. 1466; Bull. soc. 

chim., XIX, 499 ; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1873, 

25. 
Archiv der Ph.trm,, Nov,, 1873; Jahresb., 

1873, 1130. 
C. R., LXXVI, 49 ; .J.ahresb. reinen Ch,, 1873, 

25, 
J:ihresb, chem. Tech., 1875, 609. 
Chem. New.s, XXVII, 199; Jahresb. reinen 

Ch., 1873. 71 ; Jahresb., 1873, 921 ; Bull. soc. 

chim., XX, 177. 
Zeitschr. anal. Chem.,XII. 2.54 ; Jahresb., 1873, 

919, 
Am, Chem.. ITT, 361 .and 401 ; also TV. 1, 41, 

and 81 ; Chem News, XXVni, 47, 113, 164. 

233, 244,257, 208: J.ihrcsb. reinen Ch,. 1873, 

72; J. Chem. Soc. [2], XII, 12 and 642 ; 

Monit. .«cient, (3], 903; Zeitschr, anal. 

Chora,, XII, 308; Jahresb.. 1873, 1.58; C.C, 

1873, 593; Bull, soc chim,, XXI, 63, 
Am. J. Sci. |:il, V. 110: Choni. New.s, 

XXVIII, 63 ; J.ahresl)., 1873, 937 ; J. Chem. 

Soc, 1873, 96; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XII, 

310 ; C. C, 1873, 281 ; Bull, soc chim., XX, 

175. 
Ber. rt. eh. Ges., VII. 1131 : Bull, soc chim., 

XXni, 270: C C, 1874. 6:57; Jahresb., 

1874,284; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1874, 115; 

J. Chem. Soc. [2], XII, 933; Am. Chem., 

V, 304, and V, 234 ; Chem. News, XXXI, 
32. 



1)2 (I INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 
Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Coutinued. 



Date. 



1874 
1874 
1874 
1874 

1875 

1875 

1875 

1875 
1875 
1875 

1875 
1875 
1875 

1875 
1876 

1876 
1876 

1876 
1876 
1876 

1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1877 



1877 

1877 

1877 

1877 

1877 
1877 



Author. 



Bottger 

Morton 

Jeaii 

Hartley 

Isambert 

Nilsoa 

Bolton 

Atterberg 

Mann 

Maxwell Lyte 

Fairley 



Bolton 

Belohoubek 

Vogel 

Kern 

Kern 

Gawalovski 

Wy ronboff. 

Naiidin and de Mon 

tholon. 
Lupton 

Fairley 

Ditte 



Strohmer and Klaus 



Remarks. 



Briigelmauu . 



Fresenius 

Sendtuer 
Patera . . . 



Action of P on solations 

of U. 
Fluorescent relations of 

basic salts. 
Use in estimation of phos- 

pboiic acid. 
Influence of beat on ab- 

soiption spectra. 

Precipitation of Ag by ox- 
ide. 



Selenites . 



Separation from Vd 



Production of U in Prus- 
sia, 1809 to 1873. 
Feriocyanides 



Utilization of bye-prod- 
ucts in U manufacture. 
Use in titration of zinc . . 



Value of metal 

Urauic acid, UO4 2H2O. . 



Price of metal 

Use in titration of phos- 
phoric acid. 
Absorption spectra 



Reagent for U. (Ferrocy- 
anide soluble in HCl.) 



Action of Mg on s.ilts of 

U. 
Recovery of U residues - - 

Formula of U ferrocyanide 



Production of U ores in 
1874. 

Action of CO2 on U cya- 
nide. 

Succinate 

Tetroxide and peruran- 

ates. 
Separation from Fe and 

Cr. 



Recovery of U residues . 



Estimation of P and As 
acids. 

Production of ores in Aus- 
tria in 1875. 

Criticism on Kern's rea- 
gent for U. 

Researches . 

Report 00 tecboical pro- 
cesses. 



References. 



Jahresb. phys. Ver., Frankft., 1872-1873, 14 ; 

C. 0., 1874, 322. 
Monit. scient., IV, 318; Chem. News, XXTX, 

17; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1874, 116. 
C. R., LXXVIII, 1305; Ber. d. chem. Ges.. 

1874, 737; Jahiesb., 1874, 973. 
Chem. News, XXIX, 148; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 

1874, 740; Proc. Loud. Roy. Soc, XXII, 
241 ; .Jahresb., 187-!, 96. 

C. R., LXXX, 1087 ; Bull. soc. chim., XXIV, 

368 ; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1875, 697 ; J. Chem. 

Soc, 1875, 1164; Chem. News, XXXI, 239; 

Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XIV, 346; Jahresb., 

reinen Ch., 1875, 82 ; Jahresb., 1875, 223. 
Reseaiches on salts of Selenious Acid; Nova 

acta Reg. Soc. Scient. Upsala [III], 1875; 

Ber. d. chem. Ges, 187'), 655; Bull. soc. 

chim. [2], XXII1,497; Jahresb., 1875. 163. 
Am. Chem., V, 363; C. C, 1876, 809; Bull. 

soc. chim., XXVH. 295; Jahresb., 1875, 

223. 
C. C, 1875, 528. 

Bull soc. chim., XXIV, 355; Jahresb., 1875, 

235; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1876, 856. 
C. C, 1875, 83 ; J. Chem. Soc, 1875, 1303. 

Chem. News, XXXI, 222; Zeitschr. anal. 

Chem., XIV, 343. 
San Francisco Sc. : Berg- u. hiitten-Ztg., 

XXXIV, 244: C. C, 1875, 544; 
Chem. News, XXXII, 219; Bull. soc. chim. 

XXI, 553 ; J. Chem. Soc, 1876, 192 ; Jahresb., 

1875, 223; Jalirosb. reinen Ch., 1875. 82, 
and 1876, 6; C. C, 1876, 130; Ber. d. chem. 
Ges., 1876, 948; Am. Chem., VI, 316. 

Am. Chem., V, 443. 

Sitzungsb. k. bohra. Ges., 1876, H. 4; Zeit- 

schr^anal. Chem.. XVI, 104. 
Ber. d. chem. Gos., VIII, 1533 ; Zeitschr. anal. 

Chem., XV, 329; Dingl. pol. J., CCXIX, 

535; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1875, 402. 
Chem. News, XXXIII, 5 ; J.ihresb., 1876,1002 ; 

J. Chem. Soc, 1876, 741 ; Zeitschr. ;inal. 

Chem., XVI, 238 : .Jahresb. reinenCh., 1876, 

86, and 1877, 100 
Chem. News, XXXIU, 230 ; Jahresb., 1876, 

230. 
Zeitschr. anal.Chcm., 1876,292 ; C. C, 1876,770; 

Jahresb., 1876, 270 ; J. Chem. Soc, 1877, 345. 
Ann. chim. pbys. [51, VI1I,444; .Jahresb., 1876, 

311; C. C, 1876,691; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 

1876, 81. 

C.C, 1876, 415, and 31. 

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1876, 1433. 

Chem. News, XXXIII, 90 ; BulL soc chira., 

XXVI, 362. 
J. Chem. Soc, 1877, I. 127 ; Jahresb., 1877, 

297; Chem. News, XXXIII, 237. 
C. R., LXXXV, 281 ; Ann. chim. phys. [5], 

XII, 135; Jahresb.. 1877, 1057; J. Chem. 

Soc, 1877, II, 926; Chem. News. XXXVI, 

100; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XVII, 96; 

Bull. soc. chim., XXX, 414; C. C, 1877, 

631 and 712 ; Dingl. pol. J., CCXXVII, 412 ; 

Jahresb. reinen Ch , 1877. 102, 
Dingl. pol. J., CCXXV, ,%1 ; Jahresb., 1877, 

1057; C. C, 1877, 744; J. Chem. Soc, 1878, 

114; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XVII, S4; 

Jahresb, reinen Ch., 1877, 106 and 1878, 109. 
Zeitschr. amil. Chem., XVI, 22; .(. Chem. 

Soc, 1877, 741; Dingl. pol. J., CCXXIV, 

558. 
C.C, 1877, 128. 

Zeitschi . anal. Ch., XVI, 238 ; Jahresb. reinen 

Ch., 1877, 106. 
Verbind. des Urans, Erlangen, 1877. 
Hofmaun's Entwick. der chem. Industrie, 

836; Jahresb., 1877, U21. 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 927 
Index to literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Coutiuued. 



Date. 

1878 
1878 



1878 
J 878 

1878 
1878 

1878 

1878 



1878 
1879 



1879 
1879 

1879 
1879 
1880 
1880 

1880 

1880 

1880 

1880 

1880 

1880 

1880 
1880 

1880 



Author. 



Lockyer . 
Bnrc.ker . 



Lomniel 

Bolton 

Liickow 

Vincent 

Patera 

Priw oznik aud 
Schneider. 



Bottger 

Donath 

Sendtner. . . 
Zinimermann 

Vogel 

Ditte 

Schucht 

Smith, E. F . . 

Chastaing . . . 

Zimtnermann 



Ditte 



Clarke and Owens . 



Lnckow 

Schncht 

Schicht 

Zimmerniann 



Kemarka. 



Lallemand . 



Occurrence in the siin 
Separation fiom iron . 



Mnorcscence of U glass. 
Decomposition of uran- 
inite by citric acid. 



Electrolytic separation . . 

Action of dimethylamine 
on U solutions. 

Separation of Vd. in U 
ores. 

Composition of commer- 
cial sodium uranate. 



Action of P on solutions 
Specific heat of oxides 



Selenates, selenites, and 
bromides. 

Separation from Fe . ... 



Absorption spectrum of 

nitrate. 
Action of fuming HNO3 

on TJ nitrate. 
Electrolytic behavioi- 



References. 



Electrolysis of acetate . . 



Behavior of U. salts with 
alkaline pyro-and meta- 
phosphates. 

Sulphide ; uranium red . . . 



Fluorides and oxyfluor- 
ides. 



Monocbloracetate of U 
and Na. 



Estimation by electrolysis 



Estimation by electrolysis . 

Estimation by electrolysis 
Action of uranyl salts on 
turmeric paper. 



Technical working ot ores . 



Lond. E. Soc, Proc, XX FIT, 279; LXXXVI, 

317; Jahresb., 1878, 18.'). 
C. C, 1878, 453 ; Dinirl. pol. J.. 230, 96; 

Jaliresi)., 1878, 1060; J. pharm chini. [4], 

XXVIl, 347; J. Choni. Soc, 1878, 2, 771; 

Zeitschi'i anal. Chem., XIX. 350;*Jahresb. 

reineii Ch., i878, 109; Chem. News, 

XXXVIII, 276. 
Ann. Phys. [2], III. 113; Jahresb., 1878, 162. 
Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci.; Chem. Xews, 

XXXVII, 99; Jahresb., 1878, 1198; Zeit- 

schr. aui'.l. Chem., XIX, 00 j Mineral. Mag. 

Apr. 1881. 
Zeit.schr. anal. Chem., XIX, 9 and 18. 
Bull. soc. chim.. XXXIII, 156; Zeitschr. 

anal. Chem., XIX, 479; C. C, 1880, 279. 
Oest. Ztschr. f. Berg • u.Hiittenwesen, 1878, 

2 and 13 ; Duigl. pol. J., CCXXXI, 556. 
Berg - und hiittenm. Jahrbach, 1878, 208 ; 

Dingl. pol. J.. CCXXVIII, 379 and 556; 

Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1878, 109; Jahresb. 

chem. Tech., 1879, 531. 
C. C, 1878, 208. 
Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1879, 742: Jahresb., 1879, 

91; Wien. Acad. Ber.[2], 1879, 699; J. Chem. 

Soc. 1879, 2, 688; C. C..1879, 387, and 1880, 227 

Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1879, 97, aud 1880, 101. 
Ann. Chem., CXCV, 325; J. Chem. Soc, 1879, 2, 

507; C. C, 1879, 275; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 

1879, 97; Bull, eoc chim., XXXII, 181. 
Auu. Chem.,CXCIX, 1 ; Chem. New.s, XL, 273; 

Jahresb., 1879, 1051 ; J. Chem. Soc , 1880. 2, 

189; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XX, 414; Boll. 

soc. chim.. XXXIV, 713; Ber. d. chem. 

Ges., Xir, 2254. 
J. Chem. Soc., 1879, 189 ; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 
~ XI, 913. 
C. K., Oct. 13, 1879; Ber. d. chem. Ges., Xn, 

2270. 
Chemikerztg., 1880, 292 ; Berg- u. hiittenm. 

Ztg., XXXIX, 121 ; Jahresb., 1880, 174. 
Am. Chem. .J., I, 329; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1880, 

751; Jahresb., 1880. 174; Zeitschr. anal. 

Chem., XXI, 260 ; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1880, 

102. 
Bull, soc chim. [2], XXXIV, 20 ; Jahresb., 

1880,353; C. C, 1880, 564; Jahresb. reiuen 

Ch., 1880, 101 : Ber. d. chem. Ges., XIII, 

1860. 
Ann. Chem., CCIV,226; Ber. d. chem. Gen., 

Xni, 2078; Bull, soc chim , XXXV, 176; 

Chem. News. XLIII, 153; J. Chem. Soc, 

1881, II, 79 ; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XX, 557 ; 

C. C, 1860, 40 and 756; Jahresb. reinen 

Chem., 1880, 102 : .Jahresb., 1880, 351. 
C. R., XCI, 115 and 166 ; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 

XIII, 1977; Jahresb chem. Techn.. 1880,408 ; 
Chem. News, XLU, 82 and 95; J. Chem. 
Soc, 1880, 11,853 aud 794; C. ('., 1880, 625; 
Dingl.poL J., CCXXXVIII, 504; Jahresb. 
reinen Chem., 1880, 101; Jahresb., 1880, 353. 

Am. Chem. J., II, 331 ; Ber. <1. <h<Mn. Ges., 

XIV, 35; Bull soc chim., XXXVI, 441 ; C. 
C, 1881, 197; J. Chem. Soc , 1881, II, 1124; 
Jahresb. reinen Ch.,1880, 102 and 1881, 97; 
Jahresb., 1880,704. 

Ztschr. anal. Chem., 1880, 1 ; Chem. News, 

XLI, 213, Jahresb., 18i^0, 1139; Jahresb. rei- 

nen Ch., 1880, 2; Jahresb. cheui. Tech., 1880, 

411. 
C. C, 1880, 374 : Jahre.sb., 1880, 1143 ; Diugl. 

pol. J., CCXXXIX, 303 and 378. 
Chem. News, XLI, 280 ; Jahresb., 1S80, 1143. 
Ann. Chem., CCIV, 224 : Jahresb., 1880, 1184 ; 

J. Chem. Soc, 1881, 2, 122; Zeitschr. anal. 

Chem., XX, 415; C. C, 1880, 756; Chem. 

Now8,XLIII, 153 ; Ber. d. chem. Ges., XHI, 

2093. 
Monit. scient. [3], X, 965; Jahresb, reinen 

Ch., 1880, 103 ; Chem. News, XLIU, 72. 



928 INDEX TO THE LITEEATUKE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 
Index, to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Continued. 



Date. 


Author. 


Remarks. 


References. 

» 


1880 


Baker 


Isnmoi-phism of fluorine 
compounds. 


Ann. Chem., CCII, 234. 






1881 


Zimmermann 


At. wt. based on density 


Ber. d. cheni. Ges., 1881, 1934; Jahresb., 1881, 






of gaseous compounds 


4; J. Chem. Sue, 1882, 2, 143; C. C, 1881, 




• 


(chlorides). 


67G ; Jaliresb. reinen Ch., 1881, 07; Bull soc. 
chim., SXXVII, 350; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 
XIV, 1935 6. 


1881 


Clarke 




Smithsonian Misc. Coll., 441, 150; Phil. Mag. 
[5], XII, 101; Am. Chem. J., Ill, 363; 














Jahresb., 1881, 6 ; Chem. News. XLIX, 112. 


1881 


Zimmennaiui 


Alkaline nranates 


Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1881, 440; Jahresb., 1881, 
292; J. Chem. Soc, 1881, 2, 086; C. 0.,1881, 
298; Dingl. pol. J., CCXL, 326; Jahresb. 
reiuou Ch., 1881, 97; Jahresb. chem. Tech. 
1881, 376. 


1881 


lieinscb 


Detection by the micro- 
scope. 


RpT d chem Ges 1881 2.325- .Tahresb 1881 






1183. 


1881 


Brauner 


Specific vol. of oxide 

Titration with Kj Mn^j Os- . 


PhU. Mag. [5], XI, 60; J. Chem. Soc, 1881, 2, 

219. 
Ber. d. chem. Ges., XIV, 779 ; Jahresb. reinen 


1881 


Ziinnnermann 








Ch., 1881, 90. 


1882 


Zimmennann 


At. wt.de termination 


Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1882, 847; Jahresb., 1882, 






based on spociflc lieat of 


16; Dingl. pol. J., CCXLIV, 334; Jahresb. 






metal. 


chem. Tech., 1882, 178; Bull soc. chim.. 
XXXVIII, 206. 


1882 


Zimmermann 


Uranyl compounds and re- 


Ann. Chem., CCXIII, 285; Jahresb., 1882, 






e(;arches ; metallic U, es- 


327; J. Chem. Soc. 1SS2, 2, 1269; Zeitschr. 






timation, &c. 


anal. Chem., XXIII, 63 and 220; Ber. d. 
chem. Ges., XV, 2617. 


1882 


Ditte 


Crystallized uranatos ..... 


C R XCV 988- Jahresb 1882 330- J Chem 






Soc , 1883, 2, 296 : Chem. News, XLVI, 290; 








Bull soc. chim., XXXIX, 520. 


1882 


Wiesnei" 


Chromates of Ui'auyl and 
K. 








Versamml. Jahresbericht, 1882, 332; J. 








Chem. Soc, 1883, 2. 425. 


1882 


Lecoq de Boisbau- 


Separation from gallium . . 


Compt rend., XCIV, 1154; Chem. News, 




dran. 




XLV, 207; Jahresb., 1882, 1294. 


1882 




Statistics 


•Tnliresh rliem Tech 1882 223 


1883 


Smithells 


Fluorides 


Cbera. Soc J. XLIII 12.) • Jahresb., 1883 








385; Chem. News, XL Vn, 44; Ber. d. chem. 








Ges., XVI, 955. 


1883 


Savory . . 


Recovery of residues, and 


Chem. News, XLVIII, 251; Jahresb., 1883, 






sepaiatioH from phos- 


385; J. Chem. Soc, 1884, 397. 






phoric acid by tin. 




1883 


Gribbons 


Oieate 


Pharm. J. Trans. [3], XIII, 737; J. Chem. 
Soc, 1883, 2, 092 ; Mouit. scieutif., Sept., 1883; 














Chem. News, XLVIII, 182. 


1883 


Zimmennann 


Reactions of V. ; prepara- 


Ann. Chem, CCXVI, 10; Zeitschr. anal. 






tion of metal. 


Chem., XXIII, 06; Jahresb. chem. Tech., 
1883, 219; Chem. News, XL VII, 130, and L, 
67; Bull soc. chim., XXXIX, 599; Ber. d. 
chem. Ges., XVL 388. 


1884 


Ditte 


Fluoiides and uranates . . . 


Ann. chim. phys. [6], 1, 338; J. Chem. Soc. 

1884, 825. 


1884 


Classen 


Separation from Zn. and 


Ber. d. chem. Ges. XVII, 2483 ; Chem. News, 






(Jr. by eleetroly.sis. 


LI, 220. 


1885 


Kegelsberger 


Ammoniacal compounds 
of uranyl chloride. 


Ann. Chem. CCXXVU, 119. 


1885 


Raiuraelsberg 


Doul)l6 acetates 


Ann Phys. Jan. 15, 1885. 


1885 


Bliincke 


Specific boat 


Ann. Phys. Jan. 15, 1885. 


1885 


Ca.samajor 


Blowpipe reaction with 
silver iodide. 


Chem.News., LH, 1. 



MINERALS. 
AUEEVIATIONS.— A., Autunite ; G., Gummite ; T., Torbernite ; TJr., Uraninite. 



Date. 


Author. 


Mineral. 


References. 


1727 
1747 


Briiclvnianu 

AVallerius 


Schwarz Bcckerz 

Beckhlaude 

Swartblende .... 


Magn. Dei, 204. 

Willi Min 24Q 


17,58 


Cronstedt 


Cronst. Min. 198. 


1772 


Do Bom 


Pechblende, Mica viridis 

cryst. 
Griiner Glimmer 


Lithophyl. Born., 133. 
Ueb. Cronst., 217. 


1780 


Werner 



INDEX TO THE LITEKATUKE OF UKANIUM, 1789-1885. *J29 
Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Continued. 



MINEKALS— Continued. 



Date. 


Author. 


Minei-al. 


References. 


1785 




Grnner Glimmer 


Mdin. acad. sci. Paris, 1785, 238 ; Crell'e Ann. 


1787 


KljiTH'oth 


TJrancTZ 


1701, II, 152. 
Mem. Akad. Berl 1787, 100. 


1739 


IvhlDToT tl 


Ui'auit Spath 


Schr. Gcs. N. Burl., IX, 2^3. 


1789 


Klaproth 


Aualvsis Ur 


Crell's Ann. 17^9. 11, 4U0; Khip. Beitr., 11, 

221. 
Bergm. J. 370. 


1789 


Chalt'olith 


178!) 


Werner 


Pcciibleiide 


Bergm. J. 


1790 


Klaprotli 

Auouyiuoua 

Kaistfii 

Karsten . . 

Cliampeaux 

Hauy 

Sage 




J. de phys., XXXVI, 248. 
J. de phys., XLII, 241. 
Ueb. AVeru. Verbess., 43. 


179"' 


Aualvsis TJr 


1793 


Torburito . ... 


1800 


Pecherz 


Karst. Miu. Tahtill., 56. 


1800 


Uranite 


Phil. Mag., 1800, 185. 


1801 

1802 


Urauo oxidul6 

Analysis Ur 

Discovery of PsOs in T ... 

UraDiiliuimer 


Haiiy Trait6. 

Phil. Mag., 1802 ; J. de phys., LV, 314. 
Ann. ch. phys. [Ij, XLU, 233. 
X/udwig.Min., 1, 55. 


1802 
1803 


Ekcberg 

Ludwig 


1805 


Analysis T 

Occnrreuce 

Uraninitc 


Phil. Tians., 1805; Ann. Phil. V, 281; Ann. 


1807 


Bruunor 


Phil. VII, C3 ; Xicholsou's J., XIII, 247. 
Leonh. Tasch. 1, o62. 


1808 


VaiiQueliu 


Ann. ch. phy.s. [1 1, XL VIII, 277 
Leouh. Tasch., Ill, 95. 

Mineralog. Manual, 1814. 

Wcrn. Min. 8vst., 26; Hoffai. Mm.. IX a 279. 


1809 
1814 


Bemliardi 

Aikin 

Werner 


Ciystallographic, U r a u - 

glimmer. 
TJranite 


1817 


Feste Dranokker 


1818 


Phillips •. . 

Pieiesleben 

Berzelius 


Trans. Geol.Soc. Ill; Ann. Phil. XII, 133. 


1818 
1819 


Lichtes Uraupecherz 

Urankalk 

Uiaumica 

Uranph\ Hit 


Beitr. Min. Keuut. Sachs., 187 ; Leouh. Tasch. 

Xn, 168, 
N. Svst. Min., 295; Ann. chim. phys. [2], 

XI'II, 31; Schweigg. J., XX VII, 74"; Ann. 

Phil. Xni, 404. 
Min. Syst., 1^20. 
Charak. d. Min. Svst. 


1820 


Jameson 


1620 


Kreithanpt 

John 

Berzelius 


1821 


Uran vitriol 


Cheni. Unters., V, 254. 




Zippeitc 

Torbernito 

Analvsis TTr 


Schweinn' J. XXXII. 245 Liiouh. Tasch. 


1822 


Phillips 


XVI.' 093; Ann. PhU., XXIV, 390. 
4.nu Phil XX 409 


1822 


Ptatf 


Schwei"" J XXXV 3''6 


1822 


Berzelius 

Berzelins 

Berzelius 


Hydrate 


Ann. ch. phys. [2], XII, 31; Berz. Jahresb., 

1, 80. 
Berz Jabrcsb. 18''3 137. 


1823 


Analysis T 


1823 


Analysis A., Chalcolite.. . 

PresPuce of PaOg in T . . . . 
Analvsis X . 


Poga. Ann., I., 374 : Schweisg. J., XLIV, 29 ; 

Ediub. J. Sci., II, 372; Ann. Phil., XXV, 

274. 
Ann. Phil, X. S., VL 156. 
Ann. Plii. ;2], V, .■57; Am. J. Sci. [1], VII, 

360; Schv.'eigg. J., XLIV, 42. 
Ann.ch.phvs. [2J, XXIV, 239. 
Verb xp^i Bobin Pi-;i"- 18'^4- Lponb Zeit- 


1823 
1823 


Phillips 

Phillipa 


1823 


Lauaier 




1824 


Zippe.- 


TJraubliitlni 


1827 


ZiDDe 


Urn.nbliltli6 


schr., XX, 168; Edinl). J.Sci.. V, 185. 
Kastncr's Arch Xat XII 252 • Berz Jah- 


1830 


Haidingor 


Johannite 

TTraconise 


7csb.. Vin, 198. 
Abh. Bohm. Ges. Pra"'. 1830- Ediub .LSci. 


1832 


Beudant 


X. S . III. 306; Berz. Jahresb., XI, 208. 
Beud Trait6 11 67'' 


1832 


Broil huupt 


U. Gumniierz 


Charak. Min. Syst. 218. 

Poiig. Ann., XXV 1, 492; Schweiirg. J., LXV, 

18; Ann.Ch. i'harm., VIII., 2»5. 
Po"^'r Ann XXVI 491 ■ Beix .Tabi'esb 


1833 


Kersten 


Gummite . 

TJraiiT> ec li **■ rz 


1834 


Kerntf^n 


183C 
1837 


Gerhardt 

Breithaupt 


Uratii)eclierz 


XIII, 105; Ann. Ch. Pharm., VIII, 285. 
-Lpr.Ch., IV, 54. 
J.pr.Ch., XII, 184. 
Po'f., .Ann XLVIII 555 ■ Edinb. X. Phil. J., 


1839 


Kose.G 

Breithaupt 


Uranotautalite 


1841 


Uranochalcito 


XXIX, 418. 
Breith Hiiul!) Min 173. 


1843 


Ebelmen 




Ann. d. M. [4|,IV. 400: Ann. ch. phys. [3], 
Vin,498: Berz.Jahresb., XXIV, 304; J. pr. 
Ch., XXX. 414. 

Po"" Ann. LIX 35- Beiz J.ihresb. XXIV 


1844 


Kammelsberg 

Teschemacher 

She])ard 


AnalvHis TJr . . i . 


1815 
1845 




304: Jahrb. f. Min., 1884, 353. 
Am. J. Sci. I , XLVIII. 395. 
Am. •). Sci. [i . XLVIII, 395. 
Handb best. Min. 549. 


1845 


Haicliiificr 

Haidinger 


XTrauin . 


1845 




Hiindb. best. Min., 510. 


1847 
1847 
1847 


KospH 

Breithaupt 

Breilliaupt 


Samarskile 

Schvver Uranorz 

Urangumnii 

U. Pittinerz 


Poig., LXXI, 157. 
Handb., 1847, 863. 
Haudb., 1847 863. 


1847 


Breithaupt 


Handb., 1847, 863. 



H. Mis. 15- 



-:>\) 



930 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 



Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Coutluued. 
MINERALS— Coatinued. 



Date. 


Author. 


Mineral. 


References. 


1848 


Scheerer, Th 

Werthfir 


Analysis Ur 


Pogf'., Ann., LXXII, 570; N". Jon. Lit. Ztg. 


1848 


TTranit 


1848, .55. 
J. pr. Ch.. XLIII, 332: Jahiesb., 1848, 1218. 
J.pr.l.'h., XLIY, 216. 
Am. J. Sci. [2|,V, 337; XL, 2.-^9; Ann Ch. 

Pharm, LXVI, 254: Jabresb., 1847-48, 1220. 
Am. J. Sci. [2], ni, 173: Jahresb., 1848, 1167; 

1853, 642. 
Ann. Ch. Pharm., LXVI, 280. 


1848 


FTfti'inanii 


Y"ttroilmenite. 


1848 


Smith J. L 


Medjidite 


1848 




Coracite 


1848 


Genth 


Uianit 


1850 
185-J 


"Whitney 

Brookes & Miller . 


Coracite 


Am. J. Sci. [2J, VII, 434; .J. pr. Ch., LI, 127; 

Phil. M:lL^ [3|, XXXVH, 153; Annuaire 

chira., 1851,204. 
B. & M. Min., 1852, 517. 


1852 


Haidinger 

VogI 

V. Hauer 


Eliasite 


Jahrb. geolog. Reichs., IV, 124. 

Jahrb. geolon. Reichs., IV, 221; Jahresb., 1853, 

849. 
Jahrb. geolo". Reichs., 1853, 105; :;nd 18.54,186; 


1852 
1853 


Liebigite, VogUte 

Analysis of "CTranpecherz 

Uranatemnite 


1853 


ChtipiiiciD - 


J. pr.Ch.,LXI, 391 ; Pharm. Ceutr., 1854, 334; 

Jahresb., 18,')4, 793; Jahrb. Min., 1855, 76. 
Chap. Pract.Min., 148. 
Pogg. Ann., Ergauz., IV, 348. 
Poiig. Ann., XCII, 251. 


1853 


Eagsky 

Dauber 


Pittinerz 


IRot 


Basic sulphate 

Uranpecherz 

Optical exam, of minerals . 

Basic sulphate 


1855 


Fritsche 


B. n. II. Zt"-., 18.i", 111 ; Jahrb. Min.. ia)5, 44.J. 


1856 
1857 


Descloizeaux 

Vogl 

Lindacker 


Ann. mine's [5], XI, 201 ; Am. J. Sci. [2], XXV. 
396; Instir., 1857, 49 ; C. R., XLIV, 322; Jah- 
resb., 1857, 687. 

Min. Joacb. Teplitz., 1857. 

Am..T. Sci. [2],XXV, 414; Min. Joach., 1857 
95 and 119; Jahresb., 1857, 691. 

Ann. d., XIV, 377 ; Jahrb. Min., 1801, 184. 

Am. -J. Sci. [2], XXUL 421; J. pr. Ch., 
LXXin, 200 : Jahresb., 1857, 663. 

J. pr. Ch., LXXVI, 326; Bull, soc.nat. Moscovi, 
1859; Jahresb., 1859, 798. 

Jahresb., 1850, 798. 

Am. .r. Sci. [2J. XXVI, 197; J. pr. Ch., 
LXXVI, 23. 

Ramm. Handb. 1860, 175. 


1857 


Uranochalcite, Zippeite 
&c. 

Autunite . . 

Analysis of Coracite 

Uranoniobit 

Pittinerz 


1857 
1857 


Descloizeaax 

Genth 


1859 


Hermann 


1859 


Hermann 


1859 


Ordway 


Basic sulnhate 


1860 


'I'heyer 


Analysis Ur 


1860 


Websky 


Jahrb. Min., 1860, 810. 


1861 


Pisani 




C. R., LIL 817 ; Jahresb. 1861, 1030 ; R6p. chim. 
pure, IIL 222 ; J.pr.Ch., LXXXV; Jahrb. 
Min., 1862,601. 

Berg. u. hiittenm. Zts., XXIV, 302 ; Jahrb. 


1865 


Breithaupt < 

Church 


Fritzscheite 1 

Cuprouranit . > 


1865 


Calcouranit } 

Analysis T 

Autunite 

Kochelite 


Min., 1805, 743 ; Jahresb., 1865, 911. 

Chem. News., XII, 183; Jahresb., 1865, 911. 
J. Chera. soc, 1866, 135. 


1866 


Church 


18G8 


Wobsky 


Jahrb. Min., 1868, 607; Jahresb., 1868, 1013. 


1869 
1870 
1870 

1870 


Hermann 

"Websky 

Boricky 

Kreici 


Samarskite and related 

minerals. 
"CTranophaue 

Uranotile 

TJranophane 

Crystallographic. iirauotile 
Uranospinite, Trogerite . 
Silicate 


J.pr.Ch.,CVII,139. 

Zeitschr. geol. Ges., XXII, 92; Jahresb., 1870, 

1304. 
Jahrb. Min., 1870,780; Jahresb., 1870, 1305; 

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1870, 307. 
Ber d chem Ges. 1870 806. 


1870 
1871 


Zepiiarowich 

Weisbach 


Jahrb. Min., 1870, 780; Jahresb., 1S70, 1305. 
Jahrb. Min. 1871 809; Jahresb., 1872 1135. 


1872 


Weisbach 

Maskelyne & Flight. 

Nordenskjipld 

Rammekberg 

Zerrenner 

"Weisbach 

Weisbach 


Jahrb. Min. 1872, 310: Jahresb., 1872, 1123. 


1872 

1872 

1873 
1873 
1873 

1873 


TJranite 

Nohlite 

Samarskite . - 

Samarskite . 

Uranosptiarite, TJranospi. 

nite. 
TJranotile 

TJranotile 

Autunite 

TTranospharite, Trogerite, 
Zeunerite, Uranospinite. 

Torbernite. Autuniie and 
Zeunerite. 


Chem. Soc. J. [2], X, 1054; Jahresb., 1872, 

1136; Ber. d. chem. Ges., V, 990; C. C, 

1873. 118. 
Geol. For. Forhaudl. Stockholm, I, 7 ; Jahrb. 

Min., 1872. .534. 
Pogg. Ann., CL, 213. 
Zeitschr. geol. Ges., XXV. 461. 
Jahrb. Min., 1873, 314: C. C, 1873, 341; 

Jahresb., 1872, 1099. 
.Tahrb ATin 1873 ''9() . .Tahreah 1873 1178- 


1873 
1873 


Schrauf 

"Wibel 


J. Chem. Sue. 1873, 1108. 
Min. Mitth., 1873. 138; Jakresb., 1873, 117!). 
Jahrb f Miu 1S73 "42 • J. Chem. Soc. 1873 


1873 


"Winkler 


1110. 
J. pr. Chem. [2], VII, 1 ; Jahrb. Miu.. 1873, 

870; Jahresb., 1873, !190; C. C. 1873 342; 

Am. Chem., IV, 36; J. Chem. Soc, 1873, 

606; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 187,3, 72; Chem. 

Xows, XXVIL 307, andXXVITI, 227 ; Bull. 

soc. chira., XX. 171. 
Jahrb. Min., 187'^ 916. 


1873 


Frenzol 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 0,'U 



Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885 — Continued. 
MINER A LS-CoBtiaaetL 



1879 

1879 



1880 
1880 
1830 

1881 

1881 
1882 
1882 



1883 
1883 

1884 
1884 



Bate. 


1 

Author. 


Mineral. 


i 

References. 


1873 


Church 


Scliroeckeringite 


Jahrb. geol. Reichs, 1873, No. 1 ; Am. Chem., 

IV, 479. 


1874 


Church 


Autunite and Torbernite . 


Cheiu. News, XXX, 245 ; J. Chem. Soc, Feb., 

1875, 109. 


1877 


Kerr 


Occurrence of TJ. minerals 
in North Ca,rolina. 


Am. J. Sci. [3], XIV, 496. 


1877 


"Winkler 


TJranocircite 


J.pr.Chem. [2],XVI, 91; Zeitschr. Kry-st., 
1, 394 : Jahresb., 1877, 1302 ; J. Chem. Soc, 














1878, II. 17 : C. C, 1877, 640 ; Jahresb. reinen 








Ch., 1877, 107. 


1877 


Church 


Urauocircite, estimation of 


ilin. Mag., I, 234; Zeitschr. Kryst., HI, 113 ; 






water. 


.Jahroab. reiueu Ch., 1879, 98. 


1877 


Weiabach 


Crystallographic , . . . 


Zeitschr. Krvst., I, 394; Jahrb. Min., 1877, 
406 ; Jahresb., 1877, 1303. 


1878 


Norden8kj01(i 


Cleveite and Tttrogum- 

mite. 
tJi'aninite 


Geol. For. Forh.. IV, 28. 


1878 


Crash and Dan:i 


Am. J. Sci. [3], XVI, 35. 

Jahrb. f. Min., 1877, 531 ; J. Chem. Soc, 1878, 2, 

280. 
Arch. Pharm.[3|,XIU,]30;J.Chem.Soc.,1879, 


1878 


Roster 


Uranite in Elba 


1878 


Reichardt 


Uraninite from Joaohims- 






tbal. 


2, 18 ; Jahre.sb reinen Ch., 1878, 109. 


1878 


Breziua 


Autunite, crystallographic 


Zeitacbr. Krvst., Ill, 273. 


1878 


Borzizky 


UranotUe 


Jahrb. geol. Reichs, Mav 31, 1878 ; Min. Mag., 



1879 Konig Raadite. 



Patera . 
Genth . 



Lewis 

Weisbach. 
Comstock . 



U. ores as a source of Vd. . 

IT minerals of North Car- 
olina, Uranoiil, Phos- 
phuranylite, Gummite. 



Optical character of Au- 
tunite. 
Uranotil 



Uraninite from Branch- 
ville, Conn. 



Collier I Urauothorite 



Hidden . . . 
Weisbach . 
Nilson 



Uraninite in North Caro- 
lina. 
Uranium ochre 



Urauothorite 



1882 '■ Schrauf , Uranothallite(=Liebigite). 



Hidden 

vonFonllon. 

Blomstrand . 



Baret. 



Uraninite from North 
Carolina. 

Researches on decomposi- 
tion products of uran- 
inite. 

Mineral from Moss, Nor- 
way, and on the occur- 
rence of natural uran- 
ates. Broggerite. 

Torbernite , 



II, 150. 
Proc. Acad. Nat. ScL Philad., 1878, 408 ; Zts. 

Kryst., Ill, 596 ; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1879, 

98. 
Dingl. pol. J., CCXXXI, 556 ; J. Chem. Soc, 

1879, 2, 989 
Am. Cheni. J., I, 87 ; Am. J. Sci. [3], XVIIl, 

153; Chem. News, XL,210; Zeitschr. Kr\st., 

IV, 385; Jahrb. Min., 1880, Ref., I," 35; 

Jahresb., 1880, 1475 and 14::;3 and 1415 ; J. 

Chem. Soc, 1881, 2, 98; C. C, 1879, 810; 

Jahresb. reinen Oh , 1879, 96. 
Proc Min. Section Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci.; Am. 

Naturalist, July. 1882, 009. 
Jahrb. Mm., 1880, 2, 111; Zeitschr.Kryst., VI, 

107; J. Chem. Soc, 1881. 2, 352. 
Am. J. Sci. [3J, XIX. 220; Ztschr. Krvst., 

IV, 615; Jahrb. Min., JlhSI, Hef., Il,'l71; 

Jahresb., 1880, 1413; CO.. 1880.314; Jahresb. 

reinen Ch., 1880, 103. 
Am. J. Sci. [3], XXI, 161 ; Ztschr. Hiy8t.,V, 

514 ; Jahresb., 1881. 1861; J. Chem. Soc, 1881, 

2, 1009; Bull. soc. rain. France, V, 117. 
Am. J. Sci. [3], XXII, 22 ; J. Chem. Soc, 

1881, 2, 1110; Zeitschr. Krysr., VI, 517. 
Jahrb. f. Mm., 1882, 2. Mem'., 249; J. (.'hem. 

I Soc, 1883, 2, 433; Zeitschr.Kryst., VIII, 
I 541. C. R., XOV, 784; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 

1882, 2519; Jahresb., 1882, 1528; J. Chem. 
Soc, 188;^, 2, 299. 

Ztschr. Kryst., VI, 410; Jahresb.. 1882, 1537 ; 

J. Chem. Soc, 1883, 2, 95.j ; Bull. soc. min. 

France, V. 165; Am. Natuialist, June, 1882. 
Am. J. Sci. [3j, XXIV, 372 ; J. Chem. Soc, 

1^83, 2, 163 aud,1063. 
Jahrb. geolog. Koichs, 1883, XXXIII, 1 ; Am. 

Naturalist, 18b3, 1278. 

GcoL For. lorhandl, Stockhoiiu, VII, 59; J. 
pr, Chem. [2|, XXIX, 191; J. Chem. Soc, 
1884, 1102; (.hem. JSews', L, 104; Am. ohim. 
phys. [6J, IV. 129. 

Boll. soc. min. France, VII, 460. 



932 INDEX TO THE LITEKATUKE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX OF AUTHORS. 

Nqtk.— Tbo numbers refer to the years, the tigares "IS" being dropped. Fisures preceded by '• M" 
refer to the section of niinerajs. For key to the abbreviations of minerals see section of minerals. 
It should be remembered that prior to 1841 the. protoxide was regarded as the metal. 



Author. 



Abeaser and Jani 

Aikiu 

Anthun 

Arendt and Kiiop . 

Arfvedson 

Arppe 

Atterberg 



Baker 

Barct 

Becquerel »... 

Do 

Do 

Belolioubek 

Do 

Bernliardi 

Beithemot 

Berthii>r 

Do 

Beudant 

Berzelius 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Blomstrand 

Bliincke 

Bolton 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Bolton and Morton 

Bonaparte 

Boricky 

Born (De) 

Borzizky 

Bottler' 

Bottinger 

Brachet 

Do 

Brande 

Brandes. Rud 

Branner 

Breithaupt . . 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Breziaa 



Subject. 



Estimation of phosphoric acid . 

Uranite 

Extraction 

do 

Researches 

Pyro tartrate 

Ferrocyanides 



Isomorphism of fluorides 

Torbemite 

Fluorescence ' 

Phosphorescence 



Estimation, volumetric 

Estimation (volumetric) of phosphoric acid . 

Uranirliiumer, crystallographio 

Bromide 

Oxide 



Date and 
section. 



73 
M. 14 
6(1 
57 
2.'! 
47 
75 



M. 



Sulphite 

Uraconite 

Analysis of T and A 

Chalcolite 

Fluoride 

Hydrate 

Pyroracemate 

Researches and minerals 

Selenate 

Solubility of U in water . 

Sulpharsenate 

Sulpho carbonate 

Sulpho-molybdate 

Tellurate .! 

Uratikalk (A.) 

Vanadate 



Natural nranates -' 

Specific heat . - 

Decomposition of iiraninite by citric acid . . 

Extraction from uraniuite 

Fluorides, oxytluorides, action of light 

Historical summary and esp. on action of light. 

ludox to literature 

Price of metal 

Separation from Vd 

Tetieth ylammonium uranate 

Thallium uranato 

Fluorescent, absorption spectra 

Valerianate, action of light 

TJranotile 

Pechbleude and mica viridis cryst 

Dranotile 

Act .on of P on solutions 

Separation 

Use of U glass 

U glass in electrical illumination 

Extraction 

Suberate 

Specific volumes of oxide ... 

Fritzscheite. cnprouranite, calcouranite 

Schwer-nrauerz 

Uranerz 

Urangummi 

Uran gummierz 

TJranphyllite (T) 

TJran Pittiuerz (Eliasite) 

Uranochalcite 

Aatanite, cryBtallograpliio 



SO 

.84 

72 

57,01,59 

67 

66 

67 

M. 09 

80 

25 

43 

M. 32 

M.23 

M. 23 

23 

M. 22 

35 

23 

18 

24 

26 

26 

26 

34 

M. 19 

31 

46 

M.84 

85 

78 

70 

66 

69 

70 

75 

75 

72 

72 

73 

43 

M.70 

M. 1772 

M.78 

74 and 78 

44 

62 

72 

23 

21 

81 

M.65 

M.47 ■ 

M.37 

M.47 

M. 32 

M.20 

M.47 

M.41 

M.78 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 933 
Alphabetical index of authors — Continned. 



Author. 



Sntjeot. 



Brianchon 

Brookes and Miller 

Briickmaun 

Briigelniann 

Bruuner 

Brush and Dana 

Bucholz 

BuDseu I riame reactions 

Buicker Separation fi om Pe 

Burghess I Toning bath 

Burnett [ Actinometry 

Do Photographic prints 

Byasson | Estimation of phosphoric acid . 



Technical uses 

Minetals 

Sth waTz Beckerz 

Estimation of P and As acids. 

Occurrence of minerals 

Uraninito 

Eesearches 



Casam^or 

Champeanx 

Do 

Chapman 

Chastaing 

Chevreul 

Do 

Church 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Clarke, E.D 

Clarke,F. W 

Do 

Clarke and Owens 

Classen 

Cock 

Collier 

Commaille 

Comstock 

Corvisart and Niepce de St. Vic- 
tor. 

Crell 

Crespon and Godefroy 

Cronander 

Cronstedt 



Blowpipe reactions 

Occurrence in France 

Uranite 

Uranatetnnite 

Pyro-antl meta-phosphate.s 

Acidity of "peroxide" (UOs) 

Carbonate ot U and K. 

Analysis A 

Analysis T 

A and T 

Schroekeringite 

Urauocircite 

Reduction of oxide - - 

Recalculation of atomic weight 

Specific gravity of compounds 

Monochloraceiate of U and Na 

Electrolytic separation from Zn and Cr. 

Artificial uraninite 

Urauot'iorite . . . 

Action of Mg on solutions 

Ur from Connecticut 

Action of light on oxalate 



Photography 

Chloride of 'U and P . 
Swartblende 



Dauber 

Davis . . .' 

Debray 

Delffs 

Descloizeaux 

Do 

Ditto 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Donath 

Draper 

.Drenkmann.. 



Ehelmen 

Do 

Ekeberg 

Eisner 

Engelherdt and Maddrell 



Fairlev 

1)0 

Fischer 

Follonins 

FouUou, von . 
Freiesloben . . 
Fresenius ... 

Do 

Do 

Frenzel 

Frisch 

Fritache 

Fuchs 



Gahn 

Gautier 

Gawalovski . 



Basic sulphate 

Use as a mordant 

Artificial crvst. phosphates 

Carbonate, &c 

Autunite 

Optical examination of minerals 

Action of fuming nitric acid on nitrate. 

Crystallized nninate.s 

Fluorides and oxv fluorides 

Fluorides ; urauates 

Separn tii m fi om Fe and Cr 

Specific heat of oxides 

Action of light 

Historical summary and researches 



Analy.sis Ur 

Researches, action of light, oxalate, &c . 

Discovery of P2O5 in T 

Volatility of UOs 

Lactate 



Tetroxide and peruranates 

Uranic acid 

Reduction by metals 

Titr.ation with potassium permanganate. 

Uecomposiliou products of Ur 

Lichter Uranpecherz (G.) 

Criticism on Kern's test 

Cyanide 

Estimation 

T. A. and Zeunerite 

Tartrate 

Uranpecherz 

Metal (oxide) 



Date and 

section. 



58 

M.52 

M. 1727 

77 

M.07 

M.78 

05 

66 

78 

62 

6U 

57 

69 

85 

1793 

M. 1800 

M.53 
80 
18 
17 

M:.66 

M. 6.-. 

M.74 

M.7a 

M.77 

19 

81 

1873 

80 
M 
43 

M.81 
()G 

M.80 
59 

1789 

:i8 
73 

. M. 17:)« 



M. 



M. 

M. 



54 
31 
61 

42 

57 

79 
>2 
80 
84 
77 
79 
02 
f)l 

13 
■IJ 
OJ 

(ii; 
47 

7(i 



27 and 29 



M. 
M. 



Blow-pipe reactions.. 

TIypo])hosphite 

Recovery of residues 



M. 83 


M. 18 


77 


42 


61 


JT. 73 


06 


M. 55 


1793 


20 


73 


76 



934 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 
AlphabelicaJ index of authors — Continued. 



Aathor. 



Genth.... 
Do. 
Do. 

Gerhardt. 
GibboiiS . 
Gibbs . - . . 

Do 

Do 
Giesecke. 
Giraid . . . 
Giuelin . . 
Graham.. 

Do. 

Do. 
Grailich . 
Gregor. .. 
Grotho. .. 
Guyard . . 



Hagen 

Hagenbach 

Haidinger 

Do 

Do 

Hallwachs and Schafarik . 

Hartley 

Hauer, von 

Do 

Haiiv 

Hecbt 

Heintz 

Heller 

Hermaun, H 

Hermann 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Hermbstadt 

Herschel 

Hidden 

Do 

Hoyermann 



laambert 



Jameson 

Jani 

Do 

Jani (see Abesser and Jani) . . . 
Jean 

Do 

John 

Do 

Joulie 



Sabject. 



Analysis coTacite 

North Carolina minerals, analyses . . 

Uranite 

Uranpecherz 

Oleate 

Arseniate 

Separation 

Separation from Cr 

Extraction 

Sulphite 

Physiological action of salts 

Dialysis of nitrate 

Saccharate 

Soluble modification of oxide 

Crystallographic and optical stadies. 

Analysis T 

Action of alkalies, &c 

Estimation, volumetric 



Photographic printing 

Fluorescence of TJ glass 

Eliasite... 

Johannite. 

Uranin, zippeite 

Ethyl iodide and U 

Absorption spectra and heat. 

Acetate 

Minerals 

Urane oxidul6 (Ur) 



Karsten . . . 

Do .. 

Do... 
Keferstein . 
Kersten 

Do .. 

Kesslor 

Kern 

Do... 
Kerr 

Kirwan 

Kitchin ... 
Klaproth .. 

Do... 

Do .. 

Do .. 

Do .. 

Do... 

Do .. 

Enop 

Kohiike. . .. 

Kijnig 

Krejcl 

Kreusler... 
Kuhn 



Recovery of residues 

Croconate and rhodizonate 

Eesearches 

Pittinerz 

Samarskite 

Uranoilmenite 

TJranomobite 

Researches and metal (oxide) 

Separation from lion by KsFeUys 

Ur of North Carolina ". 

Uraninite from North Carolina . . . 
Estimation of phosphoric acid. . . . 



Date and 
section. 



Precipitation of Ag by oxide 

Uranmica (T.) 

Estimation (volumetric) of phosphoric acid . 
Recovery of residues 



Blow -pipe test 

Estimation of phosphoric acid 

Chromate 

TJranvitriol and zippeite 

Estimation of phosphoric acid . 



Torberite 

Pecherz 

Cry.stallographic form of carbonate , 

Guuimite , 

Uranpecherz 

Extraction from uraninite 

Test for U (feirocyauide) 

Action of Mg on salts 

Occurrence of minerals in North Carolina 

Methods of decomposing mimrals 

Estimation ol phosphoric acid and atomic weight 

Analysis Ur 

Analysis Ur 

Original announcement of discovery of element — 

Nitrate 

Correction 

Uranerz , 

Uraiiit spath 

Estimation 

Technical uses 

Randite , 

Uranophane 

Recovery of residues 

Griticisrii on P^ligot 



M.57 

M. 79 

M.48 

M.36 

8H 

73 

65 

73 

52 

52 

25 

56 

61 

67 

58 

M.05 

64 

63 

58 

72 

M.52 

M.30 

M.45 

59 

74 

65 

M.5;^ 

M. 01 

1790 

69 

37 

61 

M.59 

M.69 

M.48 

M.59 

1792 

32 

M.81 

M.83 

64 



M. 2075 
71 
71 



72 
74 
11 
M.21 
73 

1789 

M. 179;J 

M. 1800 

56 

M. 33 

M.34 

57 

76 

7(i 

M, 77 

1797 

73 

M. 1789 

M. 1790 

1780 

1790 

1793 

M. 1787 

M. 1789 

56,65 

43 

M. 79 

M. 70 

73 

42 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 035 
Alphabetical index of authors — Continued. 



Antlior. 



Lallemand 

Lamdth^rie 

Laugier 

Laugiei- and Boudet 

Lecanu and Serbat — 
L(^ Couto 

Do 

Lecoq do Boisbiiudraii 

Lewis 

Liesegang 

Do 

Lindacker , 

Lockyer 

Lonimel 

Luckt w 

Do 

Ludwig 

Lupton 

Liuynes, De 



Maack 

Malaguti 

Manu 

Marbach 

Marchand 

Do 

Maskelyne and Flight 

Maxwell- Ly te 

Mendelejelif 

Merz 

Meyer, L 

Morton 

Morton and Bolton . . . 
Muspratt 

Do 



Naudin and de Montholin . 

Nilson 

Niepce de St. Victor 

Do 

Nilson 

M ordenskjeld 

Do 



Ordway . . 



Parkman 

Patera 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

P61igot 

Do 

Do 

Do 

P61igot and Valenciennes . 
PPI'SOZ 

Do 

Do 

Peters 

Pfall' 

Phillips 

1)0 



Subject. 



Technical working of ores. 



Analysis A 



Extraction 

Coracite 

Estimation of phosphoric acid 

Sejjaration from Ga 

Optical character of A 

Action of light on ammonio citrate. 

Photography ^ 

Uranochulci'te, zippoite, &c 

Occurrence in the sun 

Fluorescence of U glass 

Electrolytic separation 

Estimatiou by electrolysis 

Uranglimmer 

Succinate 

Photogi'aphic printing 



Action of AJ and Mg on solutions 

Sesquioxide, hydrated 

By products in U manufacture 

Optical examination 

Atomic weight 

Sulphethylate 

Uranite 

Estimatiou (volumetric) of zinc 

Atomic weight and periodic system 

Fluorescence 

Atomic weight 

i'luorescent relations of basic salts . 
Fluorescent and absoi'ption spectra . 

Selenites 

Sulphites 



Cyanide and carbon dioxide 

Uranothorite 

Absorption of light and use in photography. 

do :. 

Selenites 

Cleveito and yttrogummite 

Nohlite 



Basic salts 

Basic sulphate . 



Do 

Do..... 

Phipson 

Pincus 

Pinner 

Pisani 

Do 

Plantamour 

Play fair and -Toule. 
Pleischl 



Carbonate 

Commercial and industrial 

Estimation of U in ores 

Extraction on large scale 

Purification of U yellow 

Eed sulphide 

Kepori on technical processes 

Separation of Vd in U ores 

Uranium oies as source of Vd 

Atomic weight 

Metallic U and general researches 

Preparation of metal 

Tartrates 

Manufacture of metallic U 

Pyrophosphate 

Separation I ly lead acetate 

Separation by CnO and by HgO 

Extraction ." 

Analysis Ur 

Analysis T 

Presence of PjOs in T 

TorbeTnite 

Uranite 

Action of Mg. on solutions 

E.stimation of phosphoric acid with acetate of U. 

Cyanides in general 

Analysis A 

Estiiii.ation and mineral analyses 

Attempt to reduce proloxido 

Sp. gr. and at. vol. of oxides 

lodate 



Date and 
section. 



1 
M 



M 



M. 

T.i 



M 



M 



80 
789 
.28 

•S.i 

a:t 

.4S 
4i» 
82 

. 80 
(>4 
05 

.57 

,78 
78 
78 
80 
03 
76 
fiO 

02 
43 
75 
5.5 
41 
.37 
.72 
75 
70 
68 
70 
74 
73 
50 
44 



70 

M.82 

58 

59 

75 

\I.78 

M.72 

58 
M.59 

02 
73 
66 
49, 53 
56 
50 
77 
78 
70 
47 
41 
56 
45 
68 
47 
:i4 
35 
46 
M. 22 
M. 23 
M.23 



M 



M. 
M. 



M. 



22 
18 
64 
59 
67 
61 
61 
41 
45 
25 



9i)G INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 

Al2}habetical index of authors — Continued. 




Porrett 

Priwoznik and Schneider 
Proust 

Provostayo, de la 

Qiiesneville 

Ragsky 

Ramuielsberg 

Do.'.'.'.'..'.'.'.'.'.'.' .'.'.'. 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do ... 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Eegelabei-jrer 

Eegnault 

Reichanlt 

Do 

Rheineck 

Reinsch 

Reuiel6 

Do 

Eichter 

Ritter 

RoHCoe 

Roster 

Rose, G 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Sago 

Saussure 

Savory 

Schabus 

Scheerer, Th 

Scheibler 

Schellei- 

Hcbicht 

Schtiimss 

Schonherg 

Schraiif 

Do 

Do 

Schncht 

Do 

ScliuItzSollack 

Do 

Schumann 

Schwarz 

Seekamp 

Selhorst 

Sendtner 

Do 

Shepai d 

Simpson 

Skov 

Smith, E.F 

Smith, J. L 

Smithclla - . . 

Sorby 

Souchav - 

Spiller! 

Stokes 

Do 

Stolba 

Strohmer and Klaus 

Strome_\ er 

Sutton." 

Taylor 

Teschemacher 

Thalen 

Theyer 

Thomson 

Thndichnra 



Sulphocyanide 

Commercial sodium uranate 

Sil6ue - 

Urystallographic 

Extraction 

Pittinerz 

Analysis Ur 

Atomic weight 

Bromate 

Double acetates 

Foimula3 when U = 240 

Hypophosphite 

Phosphites 

Sulphautimoniate 

U rauous acetates with Cu and Co 

Uranous salts 

Ammouical compounds of TJO2CI 

Specific heat of metol (oxide) 

Separation from phosphoric acid 

Ur. from Joachimsthal 

Estimation of phosphoric acid 

Detection by the microscope 

Oxy sulphide 

Sulphite 

Researches 

M ajriietic iiroperties 

Pentaehloride 

TJraiiite in Elba ■ 

U ranotautalite - 

Estimation 

Samarskite 

Sulphide 

Analysis Ur 

Ulowpipo reactions 

Separation from phosphoric acid 

Crystallographic properties of acetate 

Annlysi.s Ur 

Acetate of U and Li 

Sulphites 

EKtimation by electrolysis 

Photography", and use of nitrate ^ 

Atomic weight 

Optical examination of acetate 

Uraiiothallite (Loibigite) 

Uranotile 

Electr<dy tic behavior 

Estimation by electrolvsitj 

Disulphate; and basicity of oxide 

H yilrated nitrate 

Estimatiou of phosphoric acid 

Coloring porcelain 

Action of light on succinate 

Non-fluoresenco in Gcissler tubes 

Researches 

vSelenates, se.lenites, and bromides 

Mini'tals 

Action of liiiht 

Siili)hocyani(le 

Electrolysis of acetate 

Medjdite 

Fluorides re-examined 

Absorption spectruni of Zr and U compounds 

Hydiated aiiiinonia(!al carbonate 

Influence of citric acid on solution 

Fluorescence of U glass 

Ab.sorption spectrum 

Estimation, silico-tiuorido 

Recovery of re^i(lues 

Pyrophosphate 

Estimation of phosphoric acid 

Sensitizer in photography 

Minerals 

Wav(( Iiiifrths of light rays 

Analysis Ur 

Occurrence in sand of river Dee 

Absorption sjiectrnm 



M, 



14 
78 

03 
42 

-'9 

M.53 
M.44 

44 

43 

85 

72 

73 

07 

41 

72 

44 

85 

41 

69,73 

M.78 

71 

81 

64,65 

65 

05 

1800 

74 

M.78 

M. 39 

60, 62 

39,47 

23 

M.02 

1795 

83 

52 

M.48 
56 
67 
80 
73 
13 
61 

M.82 

M.73 
80 
80 
71 
70 
72 
70 
65 
69 
77 
79 

M.45 
62 
67 
80 

M:.48 
83 
70 
67 
58 
52 
52 
64 
77 
30 
60 

72 
M.45 

69 
M. 60 

07 

60 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 9o7 
AlpJtaietical index of authors — Continned. 



Aathor. 



Tunny... 
Tyohsen . 

Uhrlanb . 



Vauqaelin . 

Do... 

Verdet 

Vincent . . . 
Vogel 

Do .. 
Vogelsang . 
Vogl 

Do... 



Walleriufl 

Webskv 

Do 

Do 

Weisbach 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Werner 

Do 

Do 

"Werner 

Wertheim 

Wert her 

Wprther 

Do 

Weselsky 

Whitney 

Wibel 

Wiesner 

Williams, C. Gr. 

Do 

Winkler 

Do 

Do 

Wittstein 

WoUer 

Do 

Do 

Wothly 

Do 

Wyrouboflf 

Wysocky 

Do 



Subject. 



Photography 



ITitride 



Method of decomposing Ur 

Uraninito 

Magnetic rotary power 

Diuiet hylamine, action of 

Absorption spectra 

Absorption spectrum of nitrate. 

Technical 

Basic sulphate ( Voglianito) 

Leibigite 



Zimmermann , 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Zepharowich 

Zerrenner 

Zippe 

Do 

A.B 



Beckblande 

Kochelite 

Minerals 

Uranophane 

Crystallography of minerals 

Silicate 

Uranium ochre (G) 

TJranospinite, trogerite 

TJrauospbarite 

Uvancrtilo 

Cbalcolith and pechblende 

Extraei ion 

Feste Uninokker (G) 

Oriiner Glimmer 

Acetates 

Fluorescence 

Phosphates and arsenates 

Uranite 

do 

Coracite 

A utunite 

Chromates of TJO2 and K 

Oxycbloride and ehinoline 

Oxychloride and organic bases 

Estimation, a correction 

Uranocircite 

Uranospharite, trogerite zeunerite, uranospinite . 

Extraction 

Preparation of crystalized TJO2 

Purilication from Co, Jfi and Zn 

Vanadium in uraninite 

Wot hly's photographic process 

Wothly type, patent 

Ferrocyanide, foi mula of 

Extraction on largo scale 

Manufacture of U yellow ^ 



Alkaline nranates 

Atorac weight based on specific heat. . 
Atomic weight -based on vapor density. 
Metallic U and researches, estimation. . 
Reactions of TJ, preparation of metal... 

Separation from Fe 

Sulphide, uranium red 

Titration with K2Mn208 

Uranyl salts and turmeric paper 

Uranotilo 

Samarskite 

Uranbliitho (Z) 



Note 

Analysis Ut 

Production of ores in 1874 .. 
Production of ores in 1875 . . 
Production of TJ in Prussia 

Value of metal 

Statistics, coramerciftl 



Date and 
section. 



65 
1798 

59 

10 

M.08 
58 
78 
76 
79 
62 
M.57 
M.52 

M. 1747 

M. 68 

M. 60 

M.70 

M.77 

M.72 

M.82 

M.71 

M.73 

M. 73, 80 

M. 1789 

38 

M.17 

M.1780 

42 

55 

48 

M.48 

58 

M.50 

M.73 

82 

56 

55 

69 

M.77 

M.73 

42 

42 

45 

41 

60 

65 

76 

59 

66 

81 

82 

81 

82 

83 

79 

80 

81 

80 

M.70 

M.73 

M.24 

M.27 

1799 

M. 1792 

76 

77 

75 

75 

82 



938 INDEX TO THE LITEKATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 



CLASSIFIED INDEX OF SUBJECTS. 



6YN0P6I8 OF CLASSfPICATIOM. 

I. — Analytical. 

1. Action of reagents. 

J. Extraction from minerals and ores. 

3. Qualitative tests. 

4. Quantitative estimation. 

5. Separations. 

6. Recoveiy of residues. 

7. Use of U solutions as reagent. 
II. — Crystallogxaphy. 

III. — Electrolysis. 
IV.— General, 
v.— Light. 

1. Absorption spectra. 

2. Chemical eflfects of light. 

3. Fluorescence and phoapboresoenee. 

4. Photography. 
VI.— Metal. 

V II.— Minerals. 
Vlll.-Oxides. 
IX.— Salts. 
X. — Technical and commercial. 



INDEX OF SUBJECTS. 
I.— Analytical. 



Subject. 



1. Action of reagents. 

Action of Al and Mg on solution 

Action of Mg on solutions 

Do 

Do 

Alkalies, action of, &c 

Citric acid, influence of, on solution 

Dimethylamine, action of . 

Phosi)horu8, action of, on solutions 

Precipitation of Ag by oxide .- 

Turmeric papt r, action of, salts on 

2. Extraction from minerals and ores. 

Decomposition of uraninitc by citric acid 
Extraction 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Extraction from uraninlte 

Do 

Methods of decomposing minerals 

Method of decomposing uraninite 

3. Qualitative tests. 

Bio w-nipe reactions , 

Do 

Blow-pip test .- 

Detection by the microscope 

Ferrocyanide, a test for U 

Flame reactions 

Re.actions of U 

Test for U [ 

4. Quantitative estimation. 

Kstimation 

Do '...."".'.. 

Do 

Do ;.... 

Estimation, a correction 



Author. 



Maack 

Phipson 

Oommaille 

Kern 

Grothe 

Spiller 

Vincent 

Bottger 

Isambert 

Zimmermann 

Bollon 

Anthon ., 

Arendt and Knop . . 

Brande 

Giesecke 

Lecanu and Serbat 

Peters 

Quesneville 

Werner 

"Wittstein 

Bolton 

Kessler 

Kirwan 

Vauquelin 

Gahn 

Saussure 

Jean 

Reinsch 

Kern 

Bunsen 

Zimmermann 

Kern 

Fresenius 

Knop 

Pieani 

H. Rose 

Winkler 



Date. 



62 
64 
66 
76 
64 
i58 
78 
74,78 
75 
80 

78 
61) 
57 
23 
52 
23 
46 
29 
38 
42 
70 
57 
1797 
10 

20 
1795 
72 
81 
76 
66 
83 
76 

61 
56,65 

61 
60,62 

69 



INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 

Classified index of subjects — Continued. 
L — ^AvALTnc!.!.— Gontinaed. 



039 



Sabject. 



4. Quantitative estimation — Continued. 

Estimation by electrolysis 

Da .. '. 

Do 

Estimation of D in ores 

Estiraatiou silicofluoride 

Estimation (volumetric) with KzMnaOs 

Do ... , 

Estimation (volumetric) 

Do 

5. Separations. 

Phosphoric acid, separation from 

Pnrittcatiou from Co, Ni, and Zn 

Sex>aratiou 

Do 

Separation by CnO and by HgO 

Separation by I'lectrolysis from Zn and Cr. 

Separation by lead acetate 

Separation from Cr 

Separation from Fe 

Do 

Separation from Fe by Ka Fe Cyg , . 

Separation from Fe and Cr '.. 

Separation from Ga _. - . . 

Separation from phosphoric acid .' 

Do 

Separation from Vd 

Separation (electrolytic) from Zn and Cr . . 

Separation of U and Co, Ni and Zn . 

Vanadium, separation in U ores 

C. Recovery of residues. 

Recovery of residues 

J)6 

Do 

Do 

Do 

7. Use oj U. solutions as reagent. 

Estimation of arsenic acid 

Estimation of phosphoric acid 

Do 



Do 

Do 

Do. 

Do 

Do. 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 



Estimation of phosphoric acid with acetato TJ 
Estimation of phosphoric acid (volumetric)... 

Do 

Estimation of zinc (volumetric) 



Aathor. 



Luckow , 

Schicht 

Schucht 

Patera 

Stolba 

Follenius 

Ziuimermann 
Belohoubek. .. 
Guyard 



Eeichardt 

Wohler 

Bottinger 

Gibbs 

Persoz 

Classen 

Persoz 

Gibbs 

Burcker 

Zimmermann 

Herschel 

Ditte 

Lecoq de Boisbandran . 

Keichardt 

Savory 

Bolton 

Classen 

"Wohler 

Patera 



Gawalovski 

Heintz 

Jani 

Kreusler 

Strohmer and Elans . 



Briigelmann 

Abesser and J ani 

Briigelmann 

Byasson 

Hoyermann. ...... 

Jean 

Joulie 

Kitchin 

Leconte 

Kheineck 

Schumann 

Sutton 

Pincus , 

Belohoubek 

Jani 

Maxwell-Lyte — 



n. — Crystallographt. 



Date. 



80 
80 
80 
66 
64 
72 
81 
66 
63 

69,73 
45 
44 
65 
35 
84 
34 
73 
78 
79 
32 
77 
82 

69,73 
83 
75 
84 
45 
78 

76 
69 

71 
73 

77 

77 
73 
77 
69 
64 
74 
73 
73 
49 
71 
72 
60 
59 
76 
71 
75 



Crystallogr.aphic forms of acetate I Schabus 52 

Crvstalloiiraphic formsof carbonate Ket'erstein 66 

Crystallographic researches De la Provostaye 42 

Do Grailich 68 

Isomorphism of fluorides | Baker \ 80 

{See also Minerals.) 



in.— Electrolysis. 



Electro! vsis, estimation by Lnckow 

Do '. '. Schicht 

Do Schucht . 

F.liM-t rolytic separation I Luckow 

(.Se« ai«o Analytical.) 



80 
80 
80 
78 



940 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 



Clamfied index of subjects — Continued. 
IV.— Gbnbkal. 



Subject. 



Author. 



Artificial nratiinite 

Uoriection 

Criticism on Kern's test 

Criticism on P61igot 

Discovery of element 

Ponuula wlieu Ui=240 

Historical summary and researches 

Historical suir maiy of action of light 

Index to literature 

Jargonium (U and Zr) 

Magnetic rotary power 

Mineral analyses .^ 

Minerals and researches 

Occurrence in France 

Occurrence in sand of river Dee 

Occurrence in the sun 

Phosphoric acid. {See Estimation of phosphoric acid.) 

PhysioloKical action of salts 

Reduction by metals 

Researches .' 

Do 

Do .. \ 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Reseai'ches and metal (oxide) 

Researches and minerals 

Sil6ne..-. 

Soluiiility of U in water 

Vauadiura in uraninite 



Cock 

Klaproth 

FreseniuB 

Kiihn 

Klaproth 

Rammelsberg 
Drenkmann . . 

Bolton 

do 

Sorby 

Verdet 

Pisani 

Berzelins 

Champeanx. .. 

Thomson 

Lockyer 



Gmf lin 

Fischer 

Artvedson . . 

Bucholz 

Ebelmen 

Hermann, H , 

Richter 

Sendtner — 
Hermbstiidt 

Berzclius 

Proust 

Berzelins . . . 
Wohler 



Dat«. 



43 

1793 

77 

42 

1789 

72 

6i 

69 

70 

70 

58 

61 

23 

1793 

07 

73,78 

25 
27,29 
22 
05 
42 
61 
05 
77 
1792 
23 
03 
24 
41 



v.— Light. 



1 . Absorption spectra : 

Absorption spectra, a general study of 

Absorption spectrum 

Do - 

Do 

Absorption spectrum of nitrate 

Absorption spectrum and induence of heat 

Absorption spectrum of compounds of U and Zr. 

2. Chemical effects of light : 

Absorption of light by nitrate 

Acetate, optical pioperties of 

Actinometry 

Action of light on solutions , 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Action of light on ammonio-citrate 

Action of light ou oxalate 

Action of light on oxyfluorides 

Action of light, historical summary 

Action of light on succinate ". 

3. Fluorescence and phosphorescence : 

Fluorescence 

Do 

Do 

Fluorescent relations of basic salts 

Fluorescent spectra, general study of 

Fluorescence, non-fluorescence in Geissler tubes 
Glass, fluorescence of ... 

Do 

Do 

Glass, in electrical illumination .... 

Glass, use of 

Light rays, w.ive lengths of . . 

Optical studies 

Do 

Phosphorescence 



4. Photography: 

Photographic prints 

Do 

Do 

Photography, use of U in . 

Do 

Do 

Do 



Morton and Bolton 

Stokes 

Thudichuni 

Vogel 

do 

Hartley 

Sorbv." 



Niepce de St. Tictor. . 

Schrauf 

Burnett 

Bonaparte 

Ebelmen 

Draper 

Simpson 

Liesegang 

Corvisart and Niepce . 

Bolton 

do 

Seekamp 



Becquerel 

Merz , 

"Werther , 

Morton 

Morton and Bolton 

Selhorst 

Hagenbach /. 

Lommel 

Stokes 

Brachet 

. ...do 

Thal6n 

Grailicb 

Marbivch 

Becquerel 



Hagen 

De Liiynes 

Burnett 

Crespon & Godefroy . 

Liesegans '. 

Niepce de St. Victor . 
Tunny 



73 
52 
69 
76 
79 
74 
70 

58 
61 
60 
43 
42 
62 
62 
64 
59 
66 
69 
65 

72 
68 
55 

74 
73 
69 
72 
78 
52 
72 
62 
69 
58 
55 
57, 59, 61 



53 
60 
.57 
58 
65 
5S 
63 



INDEX TO THE LITERATUEE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. D-tl 



Clamfied index of subjects — Continued. 
V. — Light— Continued. 



Subject. 



Photography — Continued. 

Photogi apby, use of nitrate in .' 

Pliototriapliy, ur>e of oxy fluorides in • 

Sensitize r, U salts as 

ToniuEc bath 

Wothly's process - 

Spectrum, absorption, (*ee Absorption spectrum) . 
Spectrum, fluorescent, {xee Fluoreoceut spectrum) . 



Author. 



Schnauss . 
Bolton . . . . 
Taylor.... 
Burghess . 
Wothly... 



Date. 



73 
69 
72 
62 
60-65 



VI.— Metal. 



Atomic weiglit, determination of 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Atomic weight, determination of (oxide) 

Atomic w eight based on specific heat .*. 

Atomic weight based on vapor density 

Atomic weight and periodic .sy.stem 

Atomic weight, recalculation of 

Magnetic properties 

Meial and general researches 

Metal, preparation of 

Metal, manufacture of 

Do 

Metal, price of 

Do 

Metal, specific heat 



Kitchin 

Marchand 

L. Meyer , 

P61igot 

Ilammeli^berg 

Schonberg 

Zimmermann , 

Zimmermann 

Mendolejeff 

Clarke 

Hitter 

Peligot 

P61i,t;ot 

P61igot & Valenciennes 

Zimmermann 

Bolton 



Bliincke . 



73 
41 

70 
41-47 
44 
13 
82 
81 
70 
81 
1800 
41 
56 
68 
83 
75 
75 
85 



VH.— Minerals. 

Aumnite (== variety of uranglimmer, chalcolite prior to 1819) : Urankalk, BerzeUus, 19 and 23 ; Langier, 

23; Calcouranite, Breithaupt, 65; TJranite, Werther, 48; Geuth, 48; Descloizeaux, 57; Pisani, 61; 
analysis, Church, 65; Wibel, 73; Frenzel, 73; Church, 74; Maskelyu and Flight, 72. 

Broggerite, Blomstrand, 84. 

Cleveite: Nordenskj^ld, 78. 

Coracite: Le Conte, 48; Whitney, 50; Geuth, 57. 

Miaaite : TTran-Pittiuerz, Breithaupt, 47 ; Hnidinger, 52 ; Kagsky, 53 ; Hermann, 59. 

Gummite : Feste Urauokker, Werner, !7; Lichtes Uranpecherz, Freiesleben, 18 ; Gummierz, Breit- 
haupt, 32 and 47 ; Gummite, Kersten, 33; Weisbach, 82. 

Johannite : TJranWtriol, John, 21 ; Johannite, Haidinger, 30. 

Kochelite: Websky, 68. 

Liebigite : Vogl, 52 ; Uranothallite, Schraaf,' 82. 

Medjidite: Smith, 48. 

Miscellaneous: Occurrence, Brunner, 07 ; occurrence in North Carolina, Kerr, 77; Genth, 79 ; Hidden, 81 
and 83. Optical examination of minerals, Descloizeaux, 56; Cryslallographic, Weisbach, 77 ; Crys- 
tallography of Autunite, Brezina, 78; Opticalchaiactersof A., Lewis, 80; Decomposition products 
of Ur., Von Fouhon, 83; Ciystallography of T, Bernh.ardi, 09 ; Teschemacher, 45; Shepard, 45; 
Brookes and Miller, 52 ; von Hauer, 53 ; Websky, 60. Uranium ores as a source of Vd, Patera, 79; 
Natural Uranates, Blomstrand, 84. 

Nohlite: NordenskJ<^ld, 72. 

Randite .- Kijnig, 79. 

Samarskite: H. Pvose, 39, 47; Hermann, 4e, 69; Eammel^erg, 73; Zerrenner, 73. 

Schroeckeringite : Church, 73. 

Torbernite (=K;upfer. Uranit): Mica viridis cryst., De Bom, 1772; Gi-iiner Glimmer, Werner, 1780,; 
TJranitspath, Klaproth, 1789; Champeanx, uranite, 1800; Discovery of PsOj in T, Ekeberg, 02; 
TJranglimmer, Ludwig, 03; Analyses, Gregor, 05; Uranite, Aikin, 14; Phillips, 18; Uranmica, 
Jameson, 20: Uranphyllite, Breithaupt, 20; Phillips 22 and 23 ; Berzelius, analysis, 22 ; Genth, 48; 
Church, analysis, 05; Cuprouranite, Breithaupt, 65; rrenzel,73; Church, 74; Koster, 78; Baret,84. 

Trogerite : Weisbach 71 ; Winkler, 73. 

Uraeonite : Bendant, 32. ■ • 

Uranatemnite .- Chapman, 53. 



m2 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 

Classified index of subjects — Coutiuued. » 

VII.— Minerals— Continued. 

TTraninite: Schwarzbeckeiz, Bruckmann, 1727 ; Beckblande, Wallerias, 1747 ; 8waitblende, Cron 
stedt, 1758; Pechblende, De Born, 1772; Uranerz, Klaprotb, 1789; Pecbblende, Werner, 1789; 
Analysis Ur., Klaprotb, 1789. 1790 ; Pecberz, Karsten, 1800 ; Urane oxidul6, Haiiy, 01 ; Analysis, 
Sage, 02; Vauquelin, 08; Analysis, Pfaif, 22; Breitbaupt, 37 and 47; Keisten, Uraupecberz, 34; 
Gerbardt, 36; Analysis, Ebelmtn, 43 ; Analysis, Rammelaberg, 44; Analysis, Scbetrer, Tb., 48; 
Fritscbe, 55; Tbeyer, 60; Brusii & Dana, 78; from Joacbimstbal, Reicbardt, 78, from Connecti- 
cut, Comstock, 80; from Nortb Carolina, Kerr, 77; Genth., 79, and Hidden, 83; Decomposition, 
products of. Von PouUon, 83. 

Uranite (see Torbemite). 

Vrankalk (see Autunite). • 

JTranochalcite : Breitbaupt, 41 ; Lindackor, 67. 

Uranglimmer (see Torbemite). • 

Uranocireite : Winkler, 77 ; Churcb, 77. 

Uranmica (see Torbernite). 

JJranoniobite : Hermann, 59. 

Vranophane ; Websky, 70 ; Baejci, 70. 

JTranosphdrite: Weisbacb, 73; Winkler, 73. 

Uranospinite : Weisbacb, 71 ; Winkler, 73. 

Uranotantolite (see Samarskite). 

JJranphylUte (see Torbemite). • 

Uranothallite (see Liebigite). 

Vranvitriol (see Johannite). 

Uranothoriie : Collier, 81; Ifilaon, 82. 

Uranpecherz (see Uraninite). 

Uranotile: Boricky, 70; Zephaiowich, 70; Weisbacb, 73, 80; Scbrauf, 73; Borzizky, 78. 

Voglite : Vogl, 53. 

Toglianite: Vogl, 57. 

Yttrogummite : Nordenksj^ld, 78. 

Zippeite : Dranbliitbe, Zippe, 24, 27 ; Haidinger, 45 ; Dauber, 54 ; Lindacker, 57 ; Ordway, 68. 

Zeunerite : Winkler, 73 ; Frenzel, 73. 

VIII.— OXIDBS. 



Subject. 



Author. 



Acid, uranic 

Acidity of peroxide (UO3). 
Oxides 



Oxides, atomi'j volume of 

Oxides, reduction of 

Oxides, soluble modiiicatiou of 

Oxides, pseudo-metal ... 

Oxide.s, speciiic jiravity of 

Do '. 

Oxides, specific beat of pseudo-metal. 

Oxides, specific beat of 

Oxides, specific volume of 

Sesquioxide, bydiated 

Trioxide, volatility of 

Tetroxide 

Reduction of protoxide attempted 

TJranous oKide crystallized 

Uranic acid 

VolatiUty of ITO3 



Fairley 

Cbevreul 

Bertbier 

Plavfair and Joule 

E.D.Clarke 

Graham , 

Fucbs 

Playfair and Joule 

P. W. Clarke 

Regnault 

Donatb 

Brauner 

Malaguti 

Eisner 

Fairley 

Plantamour 

"Wobler 

Fairley 

Eisner 



Date. 



75 
18 
25 
45 
19 
67 
1793 
45 
73 
41 
79 
81 
43 
66 
75,76 
41 
42 
75 
66 



IX.— Salts. 



Acetate 

Acetates 

Acetates (double saits) 

Acetates of Cu and of Co with uranous acetate 

Acetate of D and Li 

Acetate, crj'stallograpbic properties of 

Acetate, electrolysis of 

Alkaline uxanates 

Arseniate 

Arseniates 

BmIo salts 



Von Hauer — 
Weselsky — 
Rammelsberg 

— do 

Scbeibler. 

Schabns 

Smith, E. P . 
Zimmermann . 

Gibbs 

Wertber 

Ordway 



65 

58 
85 
73 
5(5 
52 
.«0 
81 
73 
48 
58 



INDEX TO THE LITEKATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. ii43 



Classified index of subjects — Continued. 
IX. — Saltb — Contmaed. 



Subject. 



Bromate 

Bromide 

Bromides 

Carbonate • 

Carbonate, &c 

Carbonate, crystaUographic 

Carbonate, hvdrated ammoniacal 

('arbonate of U and K 

Chinoline and oxycbloride 

Chloride of fJ and phosphorus 

(^hroraate 

Chrorantes of UO2 and K 

Citrate, action of light on 

Croconute 

Cyanide 

Cyanide and carbon-dioxide 

Cyanides in general 

Dialysis of nitrate 

Etbyliodide and TJ 

Feriocyanides 

Feriocyanide, formula of 

Fluoride 

Fluorides, oxyfluorides, and double salts 

Fluorides 

Fluorides, re-examined '- 

Fluorides, isomorphism in 

Hvpophosphite 

■ Do 

lodate 

Lactate 

Monochloracetato of TJ and Na 

Nitrate - - 

Nitrate, hydrated 

Nitrate, action of fuming nitric acid on 

Nitride 

Oleate 

Organic bases and oxy chloride 

Oxalates :..- 

Oxalates, action of light on 

Oxycbloride, ammoniacal compounds 

Oxychloiido and organic bases 

Oxytinoi ides, double salts, &c 

Oxyfluoiides 

Oxysulphide 

Penta chloride 

Pernrauates 

Phospbatos 

Phosphates, artificially crystallized 

Phosphites 

Pyrophosphate 

Do 

I'y ro- and meta-pbosphates 

Pyroracemate i 

Pyiotartrate 

R hf)dizonate .... 

Saccharate 

Selenate 

Seleuates and selenites 

Selenites 

Do 

Suberate 

Succinate 

Succinate, action of light on 

Sulphimtimoniate 

Sulpharsenate 

Sulphate. (See General researches ) 

Sulphate, di-sulphate and basicity of oxide . 

Siilphethylato 

Sulphide" 

Sulphide, red 

Sulphide, red 

Sulpliite 

Sul])hite 

Suljihite 

Suljihites 

Sulphites 

Sulphocarbonate 

Silphocyanide 

Sulphocyanide 

Sulphomoly bdate 



Anthor. 



Rammelsberg 

Berthemot 

Sendtner 

Parkman 

Delffs 

Keferstein - 

Souchay - 

Chevreiil 

C. Gr. Williams 

Cronander 

John 

Wiesner 

Liesegang 

Heller 

Frcsenius 

Naudin and de Montholin. 

Piuner 

Graham 

IlaUwachs and Schafarik . 

A.tterberg 

Wyrouboff 

Berzelius 

Bolton 

Ditte 

Smithells 

Baker 

Rammelsberg 

Gautier 

Ploischl 

Engollierdt and MaddreU. 

Clarke and Owens 

Klaproth 

Schultz-Sellack 

Ditte 

TJhrlanb 

Gibbons 

C. Gr. Williams 

Ebehnen 

Corvisart .and Niepce 

Eegelsberger 

C.Gr. Williams 

Bolton 

Ditte 

Remel6 

Roscoe 

Fairley 

Werther 

Debray 

Rammelsberg 

Persoz - . . 

Stromeyer 

Chastatng 

Berzelius 

Arppe 

Heller 

Graham 

Berzelius 

Sendtner 

Muspratt 

Nilson 

Rud. Brandes 

Lupton 

Seekamp 

Rammelsberg 

Berzelius - 



Date. 



Schultz-Sellack . 

Marchand 

Rose, H 

Patera 

Zimmermann .. 

Berthier 

Remel6 

Girard 

ScheUer , 

Muspratt 

Berzelius 

Porrett 

Skey 

Berzelius 



43 

30 
79 
62 
42 
56 
67 
17 
56 
73 
H 
82 
64 
37 
42 
76 
67 
56 
59 
75 
76 
23 
66 

8U,84 
83 
80 
73 
73 
25 
47 
80 

1790 
70 
79 
59 
83 
55 
42 
59 
85 
55 
66 

80,84 

64, 65 
74 

75,76 
48 
61 
67 
47 
30 
80 
35 
47 
37 
61 
18 
79 
50 
75 
21 

:6 

65 
41 
26 

71 
37 
23 
50 
80 
43 
65 
52 
67 
44 
26 
14 
67 
26 



044 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 



Classified iiidex of subjects — Continued. 
IX.— Salts. — Continaed. 



Subject. 



Tartrates 

Tartrate 

Tellurate 

Tetrethylammonium urauate . 

Thallium uranate 

Uranates, crystallized 

Uraninite, artificial 

T3ranou8 salts 

Valerianate 

Vanadate 



Author. 



P61igot 

Frisch 

Berzelius 

Bolton 

do 

Ditte 

Cock 

Kaiumelsberg. 

Bonaparte 

Berzelius 



Date. 



45 
66 
34 

72 
72 
82,84 
43 
44 
43 
31 



X. — Tbchnicai. and Commercial. 



By-prodTicts in IT manufacture — 

Coloring porcelain 

Commercial extraction 

Commercial and industrial 

Extractiou on large scale 

Extraction ou large scale 

Manufactftre of U-yellow 

Mordnut, use as 

Production of ores in 1874 

Production of ores in 1875 

Production of U in Prussia 

Pmiticatiou of U-\ellow 

Sodium urauate, commercial 

Statistics, commercial 

Technical 

Technical extraction 

Technical jirocessea, report on. . . 

Technical working of ores 

Technical uses 

Technical uses 

Yellow uranium, manufacture of. 
TeUow U, poxitication of 



Mann 

Schwarz . . 

Patera 

do ... 

do ... 

"Wysocky- 

do - . . 

Davis 



Patera 

Priwoznik & Schneider. 



Vogelsang . 

Patera 

do..-. 

Lallemand . 
Brianchon . 
Kohnke . .. 
Wysocky. . 
Patera 



75 
70 

49,53 
7."$ 

49,53 
59 
66 
31 
76 
77 
75 
56 
78 
82 
62 

49,53 
77 
80 
58 
43 
66 
56 



INDEX TO THE LITERATLTPvE OF URANIUM, 1780-1889. 045 



KEY TO ABBREVIATIONS. 

[Dates following titles indicate works folly indexed.] 



Abbreviations. 



Am. Chem , 

Am. Naturalist 
Am. J. Photos • 
Am. J. Scii. 



Ann. Ch. Pharm. or Ann. Chem. 



Ann. ch. phys 

Anu.d. M. 

Ann. Phys 

Anuals Lye. Nat. Hist \ . 

Annals N*. Y. Acad. Sci 



Annuaire chim 

Aiiz. d. bohm. caturf. Versamml. 

Arcbiv der Pharm 

B.&M. Min 

Ber. d. chem. Ges 



Berg- und hiittenm. 

Ber<im. J. 

Borz. Jahresb 



Ztg. 



Breitb. Handb. Min 



Brit. J. Phot 

Buchner's Report. 
Bull, beige photog 
Bull, des sci 



Bull. soc. chim 

Bull. soc. min. France. 
Bull. soc. nat. Moscou - . 

Bull. soc. philomath 

CO 

C hap. Pract. Min 

Oharak. d. Min. Syst . . . 

Claem. Gaz 

C hem. JS'ews 

Chom. tecbn. Mittheil. 
Chem. Unters 



ChemikerZtg 

Cosmos 

Crell's Ann 

Cronst. Min 

Dingl. pol. J 

Gebleu's J 

Geol. For. Forhandl. Stockholm 

G6uioiudustr 

Gilbert Ann 

Gott. gelehrt. Auz 

Handb. best. Min 

Hauy, Traits 

Horn's Photog. J 

Humphrey's J 

Inst it 

J. Chem. Soc 

J. fiir. Laudw 

J.pr.Ch 

Jahrb. geolog. Eeichs 

Jahrb. Min 

Jahresb 



Jahresb. chem. Tech , 



Jahresb. phys. Ver. Frankft- 
Jahresb. reinen Ch 



Journ. de pharm 

Journ. de phys 

Karst. Min. Tabell . . . 
Kastner's Arch. Nat 



Fuller title. 



American Chemist. Chandler. New York. 1870-'77. 

American Naturalist. Philadelphia. 

American Journal of Photography. New York. 

American Journal of Science. SiUiman &. Dana. New Haven. 

1818-'85. 
Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie ; and Liebig's Annalen der 

Chemio. Heidelberg. 1832'-'85. 
Annales de chimie (et de physique). Paris. 1789-1884. 
Annales des mines. Paris. 

AnnalonderPhysiknndChemie Wiedemann. Berlin. 1877-'84. 
Aunals of the New York Lyceum of Natural History. 
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. New York. 

1877-'84. 
Annuaire de chimie. Millon et Reiset. Paris. 1845-51. 
Auzeiger der bohmiscbcn nuturforschender Vorsammhiug. 
Archiv der Pharmacie, des all;.', deutsclitn Aputhoker- Vereins. 
Introduction to mineralogy. Brooke & Miller. London. 
Berichte der deutschen chemiscben Gescllschaft. Berlin. 

1868-'84. 
Bers- und biittenmannische Zeitung. Leipzig. 
Eergmannisches Journal. Kiihler. Freiburg. 
Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der phyaischen Wissen- 

schaften. Berzelius. 1822-'51. 
VoUstandiges Handbuoh der Mineralogie. A. Breithaupt. 

Leipzig. 
British Journal of Photography. I.,iverpool. 
Repertorium fiir die Pharmacie. Buchner. Niirnberg. 
Bulletin beige de la photographie. Bruxelles. 
Bulletin des sciences, publi6 par la Soci6t6 philomathique de 

Paris. 
Bulletin de la Soci6t6 cbimique de Paris. 1864:-'85. 
Bulletin de la Soci616 minSralogique de France. 
Bulletin de la Soci6t6 Irap6riale des naturalistes de Moscou. 
Bulletin do la Soci6t6 philomathique. Paris. 
Chemisches Centralblatt. Leipzig. 1850-'84. 
Practical Mineralogy. E. J. Chapman. London. 
Charakteristik des Mineral-Systems. Breithaupt. Freiberg. 
Chemical Gazette. London. 
Cbi-mical News. Crookes. London. 1860-85. 
Chomisch-technischen Mitthtiilungen. Eisner. 
John's Chemischer Untersuchungen mineralisrher 
* * * Substanzen. Berlin. 
Chemiker-Zeitu g. Kothen. 
Cosmos. Moigno. Paris. 
Chemische Annalen. Crell. 1784-1803. 
Mineralogie. Cronstedt. Stockholm. 
Polytechaisches .Journal. Dingier. Stuttgart. 1820-'85. 
Noues allgeiueines Journal der Chemie. Gehlen. 
Geologiska Foieuing, Forbandlingar. Stockholm. 
G6nie"industriel. Paris. 
Annalen der Physik. Gilbert. 17i»9-1824. 
Gottingische gelehrte Anzeigen. Golttngen. 
Handbuch der bestimmenden Mineralogie. Haidinger. Wien. 
Trait6 de min6ralogie. Hauy. Paris. 1801. 
Photographisches Journal. Horn. Leipzig. 
Humphrey's Journal of the Daguerreotype. New York. 
L'Institut. Paris. 

Journal of the Chemical Society of Loudon. 1849-85. 
Journal fiir Land wirthschaft. Gottingeu. 
Journal liir praktische Chemie. Leipzig. 1834-'81. 
Jahrbucb der k. k. geologischeu Reichsaustalt. Wien. 
Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie. Leonh.ird & Bronn. 
Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der r<-iuon, pharmaeou- 

tiscben und technischen Chemie. Liebig und Kopp. Gies- 

sen. 1847-'84 
Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der chemiscben Techno- 

logie. Wagner. Leipzig. ]8o5-'84. 
Jahresberichte der physikaliscben Verein zu Frankfurt a. M. 
Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte auf dom Gebiete der 

reinen Chemie. Tiibingen. 1873-82. 
Journal de pharmacie (etde chimie). Paris. 1815-'84. 
Journal de physique, de chimie [etc.]. La AIeth6rie. Paris. 
Mineralogische Tabellen. Karsten. 1800. 
Arcbiv fiir die gesammte Naturlehre. K. W. G. Kastner, 

Niiremberg. 



H. Mis. 15 GO 



946 INDEX TO THE LITERATUBE oF UEANIUM, 1789-1885. 

Key to abhreviations — Coutiuued. 



Abbreviations. 



Kouji. Vet. Acad. Handl 

Leonli. Tasehenb 

Lithophyl. Born 

Liverpool Phot. J 

Ludwisr Min 

Magn. Dei - 

Mcii). Acad. roy. sci. Berlin 

Mem. Chem. Soc. Lond 

Min. Joach. Teplitz ■■ . 

Min. Mag 

Min. Syst 

Miu. Mitth 

Mineralog. Manual 

Monatab. d. Bcrl. Acad 

Mondes, Les 

Monit. photog 

Monit. soient 

if . Arch. ph. nat 

N. Gegenst. der Ch 

N. Petersb. Acad. Bull 

N. Syst. Min 

Nicholson's J 

Nova acta Reg. Soc. Sc. Upsal. ... 

Oestr. Zeits. Berg-u. Hiitt 

Pharm. Centr 

Pliarm. Centralh 

Phil. Mag 

Phil. Trans 

Pogg. Ann 

Polyt. Centr .. 

Poly t. Centralhalle 

Polyt. Xotizbl 

Preu.ss. Zeitschr. Berg-H. n. Salin 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad . . . 

Proc. Chem. Soc . Loud 

Quart. J. Sci 

Kamm. Handb 

K6p. chim. appl 

Rep. chim. pur 

Repert. Arts 

Repert. Pat. Inv 

Revue liebd. chim 

Russ. Zeitschr. Pharm 

Sau Franci-sco Sc - . . . 

Schriften berl. Ges. naturf. Fr . . . 

Schweigg. J 

Sitzungsb. k. bohm. Ges 

Smithsonian Misc. Coll 

Teohnologiste 

Trans. Itoy. Soc. Edinb 

Tiommsd. J. der Pharm 

Wall. Min 

Wien Acad. Ber 

Wiener polyt. J 

Zeitschr. anal. Cli 

Zeitschr. Ch 

Zeitschr. Pharm 

Zeitschr. ges. Naturw 

Zeitschr. Kryst 



Fuller title. 



Kongl. Vetenskaps Akademien Handliugar. Stockholm. 
Taschenbuch fiir die ge.sammte Mineralogie. Leonhard. 

Frankfurta. M. 
Lvthophilaeiinn Bornianum. Prag. 
Liverpool Photographic Journal. 
Haudbuch der Mineralogie nach Werner. Ludwig. 
Magnalia Dei in locis subterraneis. Briickmann. 
M^inoires de I'Academie royale des .sciences de Berlin. 
Memoirs and Proceedings of the Chemical Society of Lon- 
don. 1841-'48. 
Gangnerlialtnisse und Mineralreichthum Joachimthals. J. 

Fl. Vogl. Teplitz. 1857. 
Mineralogical Magazine and Journal. Truro. 1876-'84. 
Jame.son'8 System of Mineralogy. Edinburgh. 
Mineralogische Mittheiiungen. ' H. Tschermak. Wien. 
Aikin's Manual of Mineralogy. London. 
Monatsberichte der kon. Academie der Wissencbaften. 

Berlin. 
Les Mondes. Moigno. Paris. 
Moniteur do la photographic. Paris. 
Moniteur .scientilique. Qnesnevillo. 
Archives des sciences physiques et naturelles. Nouvelle 

S6rie. Geneve. 
TJeber die neneren Gegenstande in der Chemie. J. B. Richter. 

Breslau. 
Bulletin de I'Academie imp6riale des sciences de St.-P6ter8- 

bonrg. 
Nouveau systeme de mineralogie. Berzelius. Paris. 
A .rourual of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry [etc.]. Wm. 

Nicholson. London. 1797-1813.' 
Reg. societat. scient. upsaliensis, nova acta. TJpsala. 
Oesterreichische Zeitschrift fiir Berg- und Hiittenwesen. 
Pharmaceutisches Centralblatt. Leipzig. 1830-'49. 
Pharmacoutische Centralhalle fiir Deutschland. Berlin. 
Philosophical Magazine. Loudon. 1798-1884. 
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society. London. 



Annalen der Physik und Chemie. Poggendorff. Berlin. 
1824-84. 

Polytechnisches Centralblatt. Leipzig. 

Polytechnische Centralhalle. Leipzig. 

Polytechnisches Notizblatt. Bottger. Mainz. 

Preussischp Zeitschrift fiir das Berg-, Hiitten- und Salinen- 
wesen. 

Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Philadel- 
phia. 

Proceedings of the Chemical Society of Loudon. 1843. 

Quarterly "Journal of Science. Royal Institution. London. 

Handbuch der Mineralchemie. Ra'mmelsberg. 

R6pertoire do chimieappliqutie. Paris. 

R6pertoire de chimie pure. Paris. 

Repertory of Arts, Manufactures [etc.]. London. 

Repertory of Patent Inventions. London. 

Revue hebdomadairo de chimie. M6ne. Paris. 

Russische Zeitschrift fiir Pharinacie. St. Petersburg. 

San Francisco Scienlitio and Mining Press. 

Schriften der berlinischen Gescllschaft naturforschender 
Freunde. Berlin. 

Journal fiir Chemie und Physik. J. S. C. Schweigger . Niirn- 
berg. 1811-'33. 

Sitzungsberichte der kiin. bohmischen Gescllschaft der Wis- 
senschaften. Prag. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collect'ons. 

Le Teohnologiste. Paris. 

Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. 

Journal der Pharmaeie. Trommsdorft. Leipzig. 

Mineralogia. Wallerius. Stockholm. 

Sitzungsbeiiehto der math.-naturwiss. Classe der kais. Acad- 
emie der Wissenschaften. Wien. 

Wiener polytechnischea Journal. 

Zeitschrift fiir analytische Chemie. FrescrJus. Wiesbaden. 
1862-'84. 

Zeitschrift fiir Chemie. Gottiugen. 

Kiitische Zeitschrift fiir Chemie. 

Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Naturwissenchaften. 

Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie. Groth. 
Leipzig. 1877-'84. 



[For full titles and bibliographical details of the above consult : Catalogue of Scientific Serials, by S. 
H. Scudder, Cambridge, 1879, and: Catalogue of Scientific .-ind Technical Periodicals, 16()5-l"882. 
by Henry Carrington Bolton, AVashingtou, D. C, 1885.] 



PRICE LIST OF PUBLICATIONS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

JULY, 1885. 



This list iucludes only the publications of the Institution (1847 to 1885) which can 
he furnished at the prices named. All others are out of print. All gratuitous distri- 
bution to individuals has been discontinued. 

The "Smithsonian Contributions" and "Miscellaneous Collections" arc presented 
to public libraries containing 25,000 volumes, learned societies of the first class, and 
smaller public libraries, properly recommended, where a large district would be 
otherwise iinsupplied. 

No. Price. 

12. LiEBER, F. — Vocal sounds of Laura Bridgman - $2 00 

15. Squier, E. G. — Aboriginal monuments of the State of New York G 00 

17. Hare, K. — Explosiveness of niter - 50 

20. Bailey, J. W. — Microscopical examination of soundings 1 00 

21. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1849 1 '0 

23. Bailey, J. W. — Microscopical observations in So. Car., Ga., Fla 2 00 

25. Jewett, C. C. — Notices of public libraries in the United States 50 

27. Booth, J. C, aud Morfit, C. — Recent imj»rovements in chemical arts 50 

28. Annual Report of the Suiithsonian Institution, 1850 1 00 

33. Davis, C. H.— Law of deposit of the flood tide 75 

34. Baird, S. F. — Directions for collecting specimens of natural history 05 

36. Secchi, A. — Researches on electrical rheometry 1 00 

41. Leidy, J. — Extinct species of American ox 1 Op 

46. ToRREY, J. — PlantsB Fr^moutianse 3 00 

47. Jewett, C. C. — Construction of catalogues of libraries 50 

49. Baird, S. F., aud Girard, C. — Catalogue of N. A. serpents in Museum 1 00 

50. Stimpson, W. — Synopsis of Mariue Invertebrata of Grand Manan 1 00 

52. Coffin, J. H. — Winds of the northern hemisphere 5 00 

56. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VI 12 00 

57. Auuual Rejjort of the Smithsonian Institution for 1852 1 00 

56. Leidy, J. — Ancient fauua of Nebraska 6 00 

59. Chappelsmith, J. — Account of a tornado. New Harmony, Ind. 50 

60. ToRREY, J. — Batis maritima of Linnteus 1 00 

61. ToRREY, .1.— Darlingtonia Californica 1 00 

62. Melsheimer, F. E. — Catalogue of Coleoptera of United States 2 00 

65. Henry, J. — Registry of periodical phenomena 02 

70. Lapham, I. A. — Antiquities of Wisconsin 10 00 

72. Leidy. J. — Extinct sloth tribe of North America 3 00 

73. Henry, J. — Publications of societies in S. I. Library, 1854. Pt. 1 25 

76. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VII 12 00 

78. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VIII 12 00 

79. RuNKLE, J. D. — New tables of planetary motions 50 

80. Alvord, B. — Tangencies of circles and spheres 1 00 

82. Jones, J. — Chemical aud physiological investigations of vertebrata 1 50 

83. Meech, L. W. — Relative intensity of heat and light of the sun 1 00 

84. Force, P. — Auroras in higher northern latitudes 1 00 

85. Henry, J. — Publications of societies in S. I. Library, 1856. Pt. II 25 

947 



048 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

No. I'nce. 

87. (JoFFiN, J. il. — Psychrometrioal tables $0 10 

b8. GiBBS,W., and Genth,F. A. — Researches ou the ammonia-cobalt bases 1 00 

89. Brewer, T. M.^North American oology. Part 1 5 00 

90. Hitchcock, E. — Illustrations of surface geology 5 00 

92. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. IX 12 00 

94. RUNKLE, J. D. — Asteroid suj)plement to new tables ...- 50 

95. Harvey, W.H. — North American Marine Alga3(Chlorospermese). Part III 6 00 

97. Kane, E. K. — Magnetical observations in the Arctic seas 1 00 

98. BowEN, T. J. — Grammar and dictionary of Yoruba language 4 00 

100. GiLLis, J. M. — Total eclipse of the sun, Peru, September 7, 1858 50 

101. Hill, Thos. — Map of solar eclipse of March 15, 1858 02 

103. Caswell, A. — Meteorological observations, Providence. R. I., 1831-'60-.. 1 50 

105. Baird, S. F. — Catalogue of North American mammals in Museum, 1857.. 25 

lOG. Baird, S. F. — Catalogue of North American birds in Museum, 1857 25 

113. Bache, a. D. — Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia, 

Pa., 1840-1845. Part I 25 

114. MtJLLER. — Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico 1 25 

115. Henry, J. — Communication on the electro- magnetic telegraph 05 

117. Henry, J. — Catalogue of publications in S. I. Library, 1858 100 

118. Morris, J. G. — Catalogue of Lepidoptera of North America 1 00 

119. Whittlesey, C. — Fluctuations of level in North American lakes '*1 00 

120. HiLDRETH, S. P., and Wood, J. — Meteorological observations. Marietta, 

Ohio, 1817-1823, and 1826-1859- 50 

121. Bache, A. D. — Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia, 

Pa., 1840-1845. Part II .,. 25 

126. Le Conte, J. L. — Coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico 1 25 

127, Looms, E. — Storms in Europe and America, Dexiember, l-;36 1 00 

129. Kane, E. K. — Astronomical observations in Arctic seas 1 00 

130. IvANE, E. K. — Tidal observations in the Arctic seas 1 00 

131. Smith, N. D.— Meteorological observations, Washington, Ark., 1840-1859.. 1 00 

132. Bache, A. D. — Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia, 

Pa., 1840-1845. Part III .' 25 

133. Morris, J. G. — Synopsis of Lepidoptera, North America. Part 1 2 00 

134. Hagen, H. — Synopsis of Neuroptera of North America 3 00 

137. Henry, J. — Circular to officers of the Hudson's Bay Company 02 

138. Morgan, L. H. — Circular relati vo to relationship 05 

139. Baird, S. F. — Instructions for collecting nests and eggs of birds 05 

140. Le Conte, J. L. — List of Coleoptera of North America. Part 1 75 

141. LOEW, H., and Osten Sacken, R.— Monographs of the Diptera of North 

America. Part I 1 50 

142. BiNNEY, W. G. — Bibliography of North American conchology. Parti... 3 00 

143. BiNNEY, W. G. — Land and fresh-watt r shells of North America. Part II.. 2 00 

144. BiNNEY, AV. G.— Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part III. 2 00 

145. Prime, T. — Monograph of American Corbiculaiiaj 75 

146. McClixtock, F. L. — Meteorological observations in arctic seas 1 00 

148. GuYOT, A., and Henry, J. —Directions for meteorological observations and 

register of periodical phenomena 05 

156. Egleston, T. — Catalogue of minerals with their formulas 25 

159. Mitchell, S. W., and Morehouse, G. R. — Anatomy and physiology of the 

Chelouia 1 00 

161. GiBBS, G. — Dictionary of Chinook Jargon 25 

162. Bache, A. I>. — Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia, 

Pa., 1840-1845. Parts IV, V, and VI 50 

163. Baird, S. F. — Circular on history of North Americau grasshoppers 02 

164. Baird, S. F. — Museum Miscellanea, numbers, labels, «S:.c 50 

166. Bache, A. D. — Magnetic survey of Pennsylvania 1 00 

167. Le Conte, J. L. — New species of North American Coleoptera. Parti 1 00 

168. Henry, J. — Circular relative to birds from South America 02 

170. GiBBS, G. — Comparative vocabulary 05 

173. Dean, J. — Gray substance of the medulla oblongata 2 50 

174. Binnh;y, W. G. — Bibliography of North American conchology. Part II.. 2 00 
17.5. Bache, A. D. — Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia, 

Pa., 1840-1845. Parts VII, VIII, and IX 100 

176 Henry, J. — Circular relative to collecting shells 02 

177 Meek, F, B. — Check-list of Cretaceous and Jurassic fossils of N. A 10 

178. Henry, J. — Circular to entomologists 02 

179. Henry, J.— Catalogue of publications in S. I. Library, 1866 2 00 

180. Draper, H. — Construction of a silvered-glass telescope 1 00 

181. Baird, S. F.— Review of American birds. Parti 2 00 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 1)49 

No. Prloe. 
182. Henry, J. — Eesults of meteoroloptical observations, 1854 to 1859. Vol. II, 

Parti $-^50 

18o. Meek, F. B. — Check-list of Miocene fossils of North America 10 

184. Smithsonian Contribntions to Knowledge. Vol. XIV 12 00 

185. Baird, S. F. — Desiderata of birds of Mexico, Central America, &c 05 

186. Bache, a. D. — Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia, 

Pa., 1840-1845. Parts X, XI, and XII 25 

187. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1863 50 

188. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1864 50 

189. ScUDDEK, S. H. — Catalogue of the Orthoptera of North America 1 00 

190. Heistry, J.— Queries relative to tornadoes 02 

192. Leidy, J.— Cretaceous reptiles of the United States 5 00 

193. List of duplicate shells of Wilkes exploring expedition 02 

197. Whittlesey, C— Fresh-water glacial drift of the Northwestern States. -. 1 00 

199. Newcomb, S.— Orbit of Neptune 3 00 

200. Conrad, T. A.— Check-list Eocene and Oligocene fossils of North America. 10 

201. Stimpson, W.— Researches upon the Hydrobiinae 50 

202. PUMPELLY, R. — Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan 3 00 

204. Cleaveland, p. — Meteorological observations, Brunswick, Me., 1807-59.. 1 "00 

205. Henry, J. — Circular relating to archaeology and ethnology 02 

208.^ Pickering, C. — Gliddon mummy- case 50 

209. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1865 1 00 

210. Baird, S. F. — Airangement of families of birds 05 

211. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVI 12 00 

214. Annual Repoit of the Smithsonian Institution for 1866 1 00 

215. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1867 1 00 

21H. Henry, J. — List of photographic portraits of North American Indians .. . 10 

219. Osten-Sacken, R. — Monographs of the Diptera of N. A. Part IV 2 00 

221. Coffin, J. H.— Meteoric tire-baU, July 20, 1860 1 00 

222. SCHOTT, C. A. — Tables and results, rain and snow in the United States.. . 3 00 

223. Gould, B. A. — Transatlantic longitude 1 00 

224. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1868 1 00 

227. Gill, T. — Arrangement of families of Mollusks 25 

228. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1869 50 

229. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVII 12 00 

230. Gill, T. — Arrangement of the families of mammals 25 

232. Stockwell, J. N.— Secular variations of elements of the orbits of planets. 2 00 

233. Ferrel, W. — Converging series, ratio between diameter and circumference 25 

234. Baird, S. F.— Questions relative to food fishes of the United States 05 

235. Henry', J. — Instructions for observations of thunder storms 02 

236. Henry, J. —Circular relative to heights 02 

237. Henry, J. — Directions for constructing lightning-rods 02 

238. Rhees, W. J. — List of institutions, libraries, colleges, «fec 25 

239. Harkness, W.— Observations on terrestrial magnetism 1 00 

241. Wood, IT. C. — Fresh-water Algre of North America 5 00 

2*2. Clark, H. J. — Anatomy and physiology of Lucernarise 5 00 

244. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1870 1 00 

246. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVIII 12 00 

247. Gill, T. — Arrangement of families of fishes 25 

249. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1871 1 00 

254. De Saussure, H. — Synopsis of American wasps 2 00 

2-56. LoEW, H. — Monographs on the Diptera of North America. Part III 2 00 

2.58. Watson, S. — Bibliographical index to North American botany 2 00 

2.59. Jones, J. — Aboriginal remains of Tennessee 3 00 

261. Packard, A. S.— i)irections for collecting and preserving insects 15 

262. Newcomb, S.— Orbit of Uranus 2 00 

264. Le CoNTE, J. L. — New species of North American Coleoptera. Part 11... 100 

266. Woodward, J. J. — Structure of cancerous tumors. Toner lecture. No. 1. 25 

267. Swan, J. G.— Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte's Islands 1 00 

270. Osten-Sacken, R.— Catalogue of Diptera of North America 2 00 

272. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XIX 12 00 

274. Smithsonian Miscellaneous (^"ollections. Vol. XII 5 00 

275. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1873 50 

276. Clarke, F. W.— Table of specific heats. Constants of Nature. Part II.. 50 

277. ScHOTT, C. A. — Tables of temperarure in the United States 3 00 

279. Da Costa, J. M. — Strain and over-action of the heart. Toner lecture. No. 3. 25 

280. Alexander, S. — Harmonies of the solar system 1 00 

281. Newcomb, S. — General integrals of planetary motion 50 

282. Wood, H. C. — Nature and mechanism of fever. Toner lecture, No. 4 25 



950 LISE OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

No. Prioa. 

283. Gill, T. — Catalogue of fishes, east coast of North America $0 25 

284. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XX 10 00 

285. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXI 10 00 

286. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1874 1 00 

287. K A.U, C. — Archaeological collection of the U. S. National Museum 1 00 

288. Clarke, F. W.— Specific gravity tables. Constants of Nature. First sup- 

plement to Part I 50 

289. Clarke, F.W. — Tablesof expansion by heat. Constantsof Nature. Part II- 50 

291. Brown-Sequard.C. E.— Dual character of the brain. Tonerlecture, No. 2. 25 

292. COPE.E.D.— Check-list of N. A. Batrachia and Reptilia. Bull. N. M.,No. 1. 50 

293. Kidder, J. H., and Coues, E. — Natural History of Kergueleu Island. I. 

Ornithology. Bull. N. M., No. 2 50 

'194. Kidder, J. H., and others. — Natural History of Kergueleu Island. II. 

Oology, botany, &c. Bull. N. M., No. 3 \ 50 

295. Lawrence, G. N., and Sumichrast, F. E.— Birds of Mexico. Bull. N. M., 

No. 4 50 

296. GoODE, G. B.— Catalogue, fishes of Bermuda. Bull. N. M., No. 5 50 

297. GooDE, G. B. — Classification of animal resources of the United States. 

Bull.N.M.,No.() -. .50 

298. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1875 .50 

300. Keen, W. W. — Surgical complications of fevers. Toner lecture. No. 5.. . 25 

302. Adams, W. — Subcutaneous surgery. Toner lecture, No. 6 25 

303. Streets, T. H. — Natural historv of Hawaiian and Fanning Islands. Bull. 

N.M.,No.7 ! 50 

304. Dall, W. H.— Index of Brachiopoda. Bull. N. M., No. 8 50 

305. Jordan, D.S. — North American Ichthvologv. 1. Rafinesque, North Ameri- 

can fishes. Buli.N. M., No. 9 " ". 50 

306. Jordan, D. S.— North American Ichthyologv. II. Cottida}. Bull. N. M., 

No . 10 ! .■ 50 

308. Jordan, D. S., and Brayton, A. W. — North American Ichthyology. III. 

Fishes, Alleghany region. Bull. N. M., No. 12 50 

310. Barnard, J. G. — Internal structure of the earth 25 

311. HoLDEN, E. S. — Index catalogue of books and memoirs on Nebulae 50 

312. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XIII 5 50 

313. Eggers, H. F. a.— Flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands. Bull. N. M., 

No. 13 50 

314. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XIV 5 50 

315. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XV 5 00 

317. Elliot, D. G. — Classification and synopsis of Trochilidse - 3 00 

318. Dall, W. H. — Remains of later prehistoric man from Alaska caves 2 00 

319. Baird, S. F. — Circular relative to crawfish and fresh-water Crustacea 02 

321. Shakespeare, E. O. — Reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligatures, 

&c. Toner lecture, No. 7 25 

322. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XVI 5 00 

324. Circular relative to exchanges 01 

325. Business arrangements of Smithsonian Institution 02 

326. Goode, G. B. — Catalogue of collection, animal resources, Philadelphia Ex- 

hibition. Bull. N. M., No. 14 50 

327. Smithsox, J. — Scientific writings 75 

328. Rhees, W. J. — Documents relative to history of Smithsonian Institution . . 5 00 

330. Rhees, W. J. — Smithson and his bequest 1 00 

331. Rau, C— Palenqne tablet 2 00 

332. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1878. Vol. 1 2 00 

333. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1879. Vol. II 2 00 

334. Elliot, D. G. — List of described species of humming-birds 10 

335. List of principal scientific and literary institutions in the United States.. 02 

336. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XVII 5 00 

337. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XVIII 5 00 

338. Welling, J. C— Life and character of Joseph Henry 25 

339. Taylor, W. B.— Memoir of Joseph Henry ; a sketch of his scientific work. .50 

340. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXII 12 00 

341. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1878 , 50 

342. KuMLiEN, L.— Natural history of Arctic America. Bull. N. M., No. 15 50 

343. Henry, J.— Annual reports of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 

tion, 1865 to 1877 50 

345. Annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1879 50 

346. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXIII 12 00 

347. Howard, L. — Nomenclature of clouds 05 

348. Baird, S. F. — Report on fishes of New Jersey coast 25 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 951 

No. l*>ice. 

352. Whitney, W. D. — Lectures on liuguistic scieuce p) 25 

353. SCHOTT, C. A. — Tables aud results, rain and snow in the U. S., revised 

edition 3 00 

354. Dei^unay, M. —Essay on the velocity of light 25 

355. We THERILL, C. M. — Ozone aud autozoue 10 

356. Memorial of Joseph Henry % 50 

357. Wood, H. C. — Morbid and normal physiology of fever 2 50 

358. Becker, G. F. — Atomic weights. Constants of Nature. Part IV 3 00 

360. Desor, E.— Palafittes of the Lake of Neuchatel 10 

362. Rau, C. — Artificial Shell-deposits in New Jersey 05 

363. Lewis, J. — Instructions for collecting land and fresh-water shells 05 

365. GiBBS, Hardisty, Jones, Ross. — Tinueh or Chepewyan Indians 10 

366. Edwards, A.M. — Directions for collecting Diatomacea 05 

370. Rau, C. — Flint implements found in Illinois 05 

372. Rau, C. — Drilling in stone without metal 05 

374. ScHOTT, C. A. — Rain-charts for summer, winter, and the year 25 

375. Taylor, W. B.— Nature aud origin of force 05 

376. Hunt, T. S.— Chemistry of the earth 05 

377. Babinet, M. — Diamonds and other precious stones 05 

378. ROEHRIG, F. L. 0. — Language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians 05 

379. Henry, J. — Eulogy on Prof. Alexander Dallas Bache 05 

380. Peabody, a. p. — Scientific education of mechanics and artisans 05 

381. ScHOTT, C. A. — Temperature chart of the United States for the year 05 

382. Rau, C. — North American stone implements 05 

383. Bransford, J. F. — Archaeological researches in Nicaragua 2 00 

384. Baird, S. F. — Circular in reference to shipping fresh fish 02 

385. Rau, C. — Ancient aboriginal trade in North America 05 

386. Brezina, a. — Principles of crystallography and crystallophysics 10 

387. ScHOTT, C. A. — Temperature charts of U. S. for summer, winter, and 

year 25 

390. Hilgard, J. E. — Tides aud tidal action in harbors 05 

391. Act to establish the Smithsonian Institution 02 

392. ROMER, F. F.-— Prehistoric antiquities of Hungary 02 

393. GiLLMAN, IL— Mound-builders and platycnemism in Michigan 20 

394. Abbott, C. C. — Stone age in New Jersey 25 

395. Taylor, W. B. — Kinetic theories of gravitation 10 

396. McParlix, T. A. — History and climate of New Mexico 05 

397. Mason, O. T. — Latimer collection of antiquities from Porto Rico 05 

398. Abbe, C. — Meteorological memoirs by Coldiug, Ferrel, Hann, Peslin, Reye, 

Sohncke 25 

399. Holmgren, F. — Color blindness in its relation to accidents 10 

400. Jones, C. C. — Aboriginal structures in Georgia 05 

401. Weismaxn, a. — Change of Mexican axolotl to amblystoma 05 

402. Rau, C. — Stock in trade of an aboriginal lapidary 05 

403. Rau, C. — Gold ornament from mound in Florida 05 

404. Haldemax, S. S.— Polychrome bead from Florida 05 

405. Taylor, W. B. — History of Henry's contribution to the telegraph 25 

406. Henry, J. — Researches on sound 25 

408. Baird, S. F.— Rejjort of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1878 10 

411. Lautenbach, B. F. — Effect of irritation of a polarized nerve 25 

412. Cope, E. D.— Zoological j.osition of Texas. Bull.N.M., No. 17 50 

413. Goode, G. B.— Catalogue of collection, Berlin Fisheries Exhibit. Bull. 

N. M.,No. 18 , 50 

414. ScHOTT, C. A.— Base chart of the United States 05 

415. Knight, E. H. — Savage weapons at the Philadelphia Exhibition 25 

416. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XIX 4 50 

417. Mayer, A. M.— Henry as a discoverer 25 

418. Baird, S. F. — Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1879 10 

420. Mason, O. T.— Anthropological investigations in 1879 . 10 

421. BoEHMER, G. H. — Index toanrhropological articles in S. I. publications.. 10 

422. Ridgway,R.— Nomenclature of North American birds. Bull. N.M.,No.21. 25 

423. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XX - 4 00 

424. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXI 4 00 

425. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1880. Vol. Ill • 2 00 

427. Holden, E. S.— Report on astronomy for 1879-'80 10 

430. Farlow, W. G.— Report on botany for 1879-'80 10 

431. Gill, T.— Report on zoology for 1879-'80 25 

433. Mason, O. T. — Repoi-t on Luray Cavern in Va. in 1880 10 

435. Loud, F. H. — Discussion of Snell's Barometric observation a.,,, ,,,,,, 10 



952 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

No. Price. 

438. HoLDEN, E. S. , and BcEHMER, G. H. — Eeports of astronomical observatories 

for 18:^0 $0 25 

439. MORIN, A. — Warming and ventilating occupied buildings 35 

440. Rau, C. — Articles on anthropological subjects. From Reports S. I 25 

442. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1880 1 00 

443. Caswell, A. — Meteorological observations, Providence, R. I., 1831-76 1 00 

444. Ward, L. F.— Guide to the flora of Washington, B?^ii. N. M., No. 22 50 

445. GooDE, G. B. — Plan of organization and regulations of ilt seum. Circular 

U. S. National Museum, No. 1 '. , . 05 

446. Baird, S. F.— To friends of the lluseum. Cir.N. M., Nu.2 02 

'I'lT. Baikd, S. F. — Petroleum collections. Cir. N. M., No. 3 02 

448. Baird, S. F. — Department of insects. Cir. N. M, No. 4 02 

449. Baird, S.F. — Establishment and officers of the Museum. Cir. N. M.,No. 5. 02 

450. Flint, J. M. — Classification of materia raedica collection. Cir. N. M., No. 6. 02 

451. Flint, J. M. — Classification of drugs and medicines. Cir. N. M., No. 7 02 

452. Flint, J. M. — Memoranda for collectors of drugs. Cir. N. M., No. 8 02 

453. Baird, S. F.— Circular in reference to building-stones. Cir. N. M., No.9.. 02 

454. Phillips, B. — Letters on work of the National Museum. Cir. N. M., No. 10. 02 

455. GooDE, G. B. — Classification of food collection. Cir. N. M., No. 11 05 

456. HORNADAY, W. T. — Classification of taxidermist's collection. Cir. N. M., 

No. 12 02 

4.57. GooDE, G. B. — Scheme of Museum classification, Cir. N. M., No. 13 02 

458. Baird, S, F. — Circular requesting material forlibrary. Cir, N. M,, No, 14.. 02 

459. Goode.G.B.— Organization and objects of the Museum. Cir, N, M., No, 15. 02 

460. Ward, L, F. — Directions for collecting and preserving plants 05 

461. Ward, L. F. — Check-list of plants of Washington 05 

462. RiDGWAY, R. — Catalogue of Old- World birds in Museum 02 

463. GiLL,T. — Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast. Bull. N.M., No. 11 50 

464. Bean, T. H. — Directions for collecting and i^reserving fish 02 

465. Rathbun,R. — List of marine invertebrates distributed. Series II 02 

467. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1881, Vol. IV 2 00 

468. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol, XXII 4 50 

469. BcEHMER, G, H. — List of foreign correspondents of S. 1 10 

470. ScuDDER, S, H. — Nomenclature zoologicus. Index of genera. Bull. N, M., 

No.l9 3 00 

472. GoODE, G. B. — Plans for installation of collections. Cir. N. M., No. 16 02 

473. Baikd, S, F. — Acknowledgment of contributions. Cir. N. M,, No. 17 02 

474. List of Publications of National Museum, 1875-1881, Cir, N, M., No. 18.. 02 

475. Smitiisonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XXIII ~ 4 50 

477. BcEHMER, G. H. — History of Smithsonian exchanges.... 10 

478. Rhees, W. J. — Catalogue and index of Smithsonian publications, 1846-'82. 75 

479. Baird, S. F. — Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1881 ... 10 

481. Mason, O. T. — Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1881 10 

482. Gore, J, H, — Tuckahoe, or Indian bread 05 

483. Holden, E. S.— Report on astronomy for 1881 10 

484. Abbe, C. — Report on meteorology for 1879-1881 25 

485. Barker, G. F. — Report on physics and chemistry for 1881 10 

486. Farlow, W, G.— Report on botany for 1881 10 

487. Gill, T,— Report on zoology for 1881 25 

488. Mason, O, T.— Report on anthropology for 1881 10 

489. Cope, E. D. — West India bone cave 2 00 

490. Bcehmer, G. H.— Additions to list of foreign correspondents of S, I 10 

492. Jordan, D, S., and Gilbert, C. H.— Synopsis of fishes of North America, 

Bull, N, M.,No, 16 2 50 

493, Yarrow, H, C. — North American reptilia and batrachia. Bull, N. M,, 

No, 24 50 

495, JONKS, J, M., and others,— Natural history of Bermuda, Bull.N.M,,No.25. 1 00 

496. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXIV 3 00 

498, Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington for 18-11, VoL IV 1 00 

499, Proceedings Biological Society of Washington for 1880-1882, Vol, I 1 00 

500, COUES, E,, and Prentiss, D. W— Avifauna Columbiana, Birds of District 

of Columbia, Bull. N, M.,No.26 75 

501, Transactions Anthropological Society of Washington for 1879-'82. Vol, I. 1 00 

502, Transactions Anthropological Society of Washington, abstract 1879-'80 1 00 

503, Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington for 1«82, Vol, V 1 Oa 

504, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol, XXV 5 50 

505, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXVI 4 50 

506, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol, XXVII 4 00 

508, Gqode, G, B.— Bibliography of Speucer F. Baird, BuU. N. M.^ No, 20... I Oa 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 053 

No. Price. 

509. Kau, C. — Prehistoric fishing in Europe and America $6 00 

510. GoODE, G. B. — Report of Assistant Director of National Museum for 1881. 20 

511. GoODE, G. B., and others. — Catalogue, London Fisheries Exhibition. Bull. 

N. M., No. 27 3 00 

514. Bolton, H. C — Catalogue of scientific periodicals 3 00 

515. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1881 50 

517. Yakrow, H. C— Check-list of reptiles 10 

518. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1882. Vol. V 2 00 

520. Baird, S. F. — Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1882 ... 10 

524. GoODE, G. B. — Report of Assistant Director of National Museum for 1882. 20 

525. HoLDEX, E. S. — Report on astronomy for lfe82 10 

526. Hunt, T. S.~Report on geology for 1881 and 1882 ; 10 

527. Green, F. M.— Report on geography for 1 881 and 1882 10 

528. Abbe, C. — Report on meteorology for 1882 25 

529. Barker, G.F. — Report on physics for 1882 10 

530. Bolton, H. C— Report on chemistry for 1882 10 

531. Dana, E. S.— Report on mineralogy'for 1882 10 

532. Farlow,W.G. -Report on botany for 1882 10 

533. Gill, T.— Report on zoology for 1882 25 

534. Mason, O. T.— Report on anthropology for 1882 10 

535. Mason, O. T. — Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1882 20 

537. Kengla, L. P. — ArchiBological map of District of Columbia 05 

538. Guyot, A. — Meteorological and physical tables 3 00 

539. Flint, J. M. — Catalogue of materia medica collection. Cir. N. M.,No. 19.. 10 

540. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1882 50 

541. Baird, S. F. — Request for specimens of drugs. Cir. N. M.,No. 20 02 

543. Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington for 1883. Vol. VI 100 

544. Transactions Anthropological Society of Washington for 1882-'83. Vol.11. 1 00 

545. Proceedings Biological Society of Washington for 1882-'84. Vol. II 1 00 

547. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXIV 6 00 

548. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1883. Vol. VI 2 00 

551. GooDE, G. B. — Catalogue and Synopsis, London Fisheries Exhibition 25 

552. Rathbun, R. — Crustacea, etc., of U. S. at London Fisheries Exhibition. .. 10 

553. RiDGWAY, R. — Aquatic and other birds of U. S. at London Fisheries Exhi- 

bition 10 

554. WiNSLOW, F. — Economic Mollusca of U. S. at London Fisheries Exhibition. 25 

555. Brown, J. T. — Whale-fishery and appliances at London Fisheries Exhi- 

bition 25 

556. Bean, T. H. — Catalogue of fishes of U. S. at London Fisheries Exhibition. 25 

557. Rathbun, R. — Catalogue of collection illustrating research in sea and fresh 

water. London Fisheries Exhibition , 25 

560. Flint, J. M. — Report on pharmacopoeias of all nations 10 

561. Simpson, J. H. — Coronado's march in search of Cibola 05 

562. True, F. W. — Catalogue of aquatic mammals. London Fisheries Exhi- 

bition 25 

563. Rice, W. N.— Geology of Bermuda 10 

564. Lefroy, J. N. — Botany of Bermuda 25 

565. Jones, J. M. — Mammals of Bermuda .' 10 

566. Reid, S. G.— Birds of Bermuda 10 

567. Mekriam, C. H.— Birds of Bermuda 05 

568. Garman, S. — Reptiles of Bermuda 05 

569. Webster, H.E. — .4unelida of Bermuda 10 

572. Rau,C. — Circular relative to aboriginal antiquities. Cir. N. M., No. 21 02 

574. HoLDEN, E. S. — Report on astronomy for 1883 10 

575. HuNT,T.S.— Report ou geology for 1»83 10 

576. Green, F. M. — Report on geography for 1883 10 

577. Abbe, C. — Report on meteorology for 1883 25 

578. Barker, G. F.— Report on physics for 18.-53 10 

579. Bolton, H. C— Report on chemistry for 1883 10 

580. Dana, E.S.— Report on miuLralogy for 18«3 10 

581. Farlow, W. G.— Report on botany for 1883 10 

582. Gill, T. — Report on zoology for 1883 25 

583. Mason, O. T.— Report on anthropology for 1883 10 

584. LooMis, E. — Aurora boreaJis 05 

585. Porter, N. and others. — Addresses and ceremonies, Henry statue 05 

586. Baird, S. F. — Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1883 10 

537. Goode, G. B. — Report of Assistant Director of National Museum for 1883 . 20 

588, Mason, 0. T. —Miscellaneous anthropological paper* for 1883 20 



9')! LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

Ko. Price. 
589. IIoRNADAYjAV.T.— Directions for preserving skins of mammals. Cir. N. 

M.,No.2-^ $0 02 

r)90. NiBLACK, A. P.— lustructious for taking paper molds of inscriptions, &c. 

Cir.N. M.,No 23 02 

592. Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington for 1884. Vol. VII 1 00 

(;9;{. Annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for 188.3 50 

594. Mills, O.K. — Mental over-woik. Toner lecture No. 9 25 

595. Taylor, W. B. — Eeliaction of sound 05 

596. Ho WITT, A. S. — Australian group relations 05 

(.97. Hitchcock, E.— Plan of textile exhibit. Cir. N. M., No. 24 02 

.598. Merrill, G. P.— Plan of building-stone exliibit. Cir.N. M., No. 25 02 

599. Clarke, F.W. — Plan of gem and precious stone exhibit. Cir. N. M., No. 26. 02 

GOO. Feknald, C. H. — Diiections for collecting moths. Cir. N. M., No. 27 02 

()01. Thomas, C — Directions for mound exjiloration. Cir. N. M.,No, 28 02 

(302. True, F. \V.— Plan of mammal exhibit. Cir.N.M.,No.29 02 

603. Bendike, C. E.— Instructions for collecting eggs. Cir. N. M., No. 30 02 

604. Dewey.F. P.— Mineral exhibit. Cir.N.M. No.3l 02 

605. DoRSEY, J. 0. — Comparative phonology of four Siouan languages 05 

606. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XXV 12 00 

607. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1884, Vol. VII 2 00 

608. Baird, S. F. — Keport of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1884 10 

()09. HOLDEX, E. S. — Keport on astronomy for 1884 10 

6 10. Maecou, J. B. — Eeport on pa la^ontology for 1884 05 

611. Green, F.M. — Eeport on geography for 1884 10 

()12. Abbe, C. — Eeport on meteorology for 1884 25 

613. Barker, G. F. — Eeport on physics for 1884 10 

614. Bolton, H.C. — Eeport on chemistry for 1884 10 

615. Dana, E. S. — Eeport on mineralogy for 1884 10 

()l(). EocKWOOD, C. G. — Eeport on vulcanology and seismology for 1884 05 

617. Gill, T.— Eeport on zoology for 1884 25 

()1S. Mason, O. T. — Eeport on aulhropology for 1884 10 

(iiy. Bransford, J. F. — Antiquities of Costa Eica 10 

620. Mason, O. T. — Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1884 10 

622. Beyer, H. G. — Catalogue of materia-medica collection, revised. Cir. N. M. 

No. 32 10 

626. Lucas, F. A. — Notes on the preparation of skeletons. Cir. N. M. No. 33 - 02 

627. Price-list of Smithsonian Publications. July,1885 02 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



955 



INDEX OF AUTHOES IN THE PRECEDING LIST. 

* 



No. 

Abbe, C 398, 484, 5'28, 577, 612 

Abbott, C. C 394 

Adams, W 302 

Alexander, S 280 

Alvord, B 80 

B. 

Babiuet, M 377 

Bacbe, A. D. 113. 121, 132, 162, 166, 175, 186 

Bailey, J. W 20,23 

Baird, S. F 34,49.105,106,139,163 

164, 181, 185, 210, 234, 319, 348 

384, 408, 418, 446, 447, 448, 449 

453, 458, 473, 479, 520, 541, 566, 608 

Barker, G. F 485, 529, 578, 613 

Barnard, J. G 310 

Bean, T. H 464 

Becker, G. F 358 

Bendire, C. E 603 

Beyer, H. G 622 

Bluney, W. G 142, 143, 144, 174 

Boehmer, G. H 421,438,469,477,490 

Bolton, H. C 514,530,579,614 

Bootb, J. C 27 

Bowen, T. J 98 

Bransford, J. F 383,619 

Brayton, A. W 308 

Brewer, T. M 89 

Brezina, A 386 

Brown, Jas. T 555 

Bro^vu-Sequard, C. E 291 



Caswell, A ...103,443 

Chappelsmitb, J 59 

Clark, H.J 242 

Clarke, F. W 276, 288, 289, 599 

Cleaveland, F 204 

Coffin, J. H 52,87,221 

Conrad, T. A 200 

Cope, E. D 292,412,489 

Cones, E 293, 500 

D. 

Da Costa, J. M 279 

Dall, W. H 304,318 

Dana, E. S 531,580,615 

Davis, C. H 33 

Dean, J 173 

Delaunay, C 354 

De Sanssnre, H 254 

Desor, E 360 

Dewev, F. P 605 

Dorsey, J. O 604 

Draper^ H , 180 



Edwards, A. M... 
Eggers, H. F. A . . . 
EgIe8ton,T. 



E. 

No. 

366 

313 

156 

Elliot, D. G 317,334 

F. 

Farlow, W. G 430, 486, 532, 581 

Fernald, C. H 600 

Ferrel, W 233 

Flint, J. M 450,451,452,539,560 

Force, P 84 

G. 

Garman,S 568 

Genth, F. A 88 

Gibbs, G 161, 170, 365 

Gibbs, W 88 

Gilbert, C. H 492 

Gill, T 227, 230, 247, 283, 431 

463,487,533,582,617 

Gilliss, J. M 100 

Gilluian, H 393 

Girard, C 49 

Goode, G. B 296,297,326,413 

445, 455, 457, 459, 472, 508 
510, .511, 524, 551, 587 

Gore, J.H 482 

Gould, B. A 223 

Green, F. M 527,576,611 

Gnyot, A 148,538 



H. 



Hagen,H 

Haldeman, S. S. 
Hardisty, W. L 
Hare, R 



Harkuess, W 

Harvey, W. H 

Henry, Joseph 65, 73, 85, 115, 117, 

168, 176, 178, 179, 182, 190, 
216, 235, 236, 237, 343, 379, 

Hildretb, S. P 

Hilgard, J. E 

Hill, T • 

Hitchcock, E 

Hitchcock, R 

Holden, E. S -311 , 427, 438, 483, 525, 574, 

Holmgren, F 

Hornaday , W. T 4.56, 

Howai'd, L 

Howitt, A. S 

Hunt, T. S 376, 526, 



134 

404 
365 

17 
239 

95 
137 
205 
40(5 
120 
390 
101 

90 
597 
609 
399 
589 
347 
596 
575 



J. 



Jewett, C.C 25,47 

Jones, C.C 400 



956 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



No. 

Joues, J 82, 259 

Jones, J.M 495, 565 

Jones, S 305 

Jordan, D. S 305, 306, 308, 492 

K. 

Kane.E.K 97,129,130 

Keen.W.W 300 

Kengla, L. P 537 

Kidder, J. H 293, 294 

Kuigbt.E.H 415 

Kumlien,L 342 

L. 

Lapham,!. A 70 

Lautenbach, B. F 411 

Lawrence, G.N 295 

Le CoDte, J. L 126, 140, 167, 264 

Lefroy, J. N 564 

Leidy.J 41,58,72,192 

Lewis, J 363 

Lieber,F 12 

Loew, H 141,256 

Loomis, E 127, 584 

Loud.F.H 435 

Lucas, F. A - 626 

M. 

Marcou, J. B 610 

Mayer, A. M 417 

McCliutock, F. L 146 

McParlin,T.A 396 

Mason, O.T. .397, 420. 433, 481, 488, 534, 535 
583, 588, 618, 620, 621 

Meech,L.W 83 

Meek,F.B 177,183 

Melsbeimer, F. E 62 

Merriam.C. H 567 

Merrill, G. P 598 

Mills, C. K 594 

Mitchell, S.W 159 

Morehouse, G. R 159 

Morfit, C 27 

Morgan, L. H 1.38 

Morin, A 439 

Morris, J.G 118,133 

Miiller, Baron, von 114 

N. 

Newcomb,S 199,262,281 

Niblack,A. P 590 

0. 
Osteu-Sackeu, E : . 141, 219, 270 

P. 

Packard, A. S 261 

Peabody.A.P .380 

Phillips, B 454 



No. 

Pickering, C 208 

Porter, N 585 

Prentiss, D. W 500 

Prime, T 145 

Pumpelly,R 202 

R. 

Rathbun,R 465,552,557 

Ra u , C 287 , 331 , 362, 370, 372, 382 

385, 402, 403, 440, 509, 572 

Reid,S.G 566 

Rbees.W.J 238,328,330,478 

Rice, W.N 563 

Ridgway,R 422,462,553 

Rockwood, C.G 616 

Roehrig, F. L. O 378 

Romer,F.F 392 

Ro88,B.R 365 

Runkle,J. D 79,94 

S. 

Schotfc, C. A 222, 277, 353, 374, 387, 414 

Scudder,S.H 189,470 

Secchi, A 36 

Shakespeare, E. O 321 

Simpson, J. H 561 

Smith, N.D 131 

Smithson, James 327 

Sonutag, A 114 

Squier.E.G 15 

Siimp8on,W 50,201 

StockweIl,J.N 232 

Streets, T.H 303 

Sumichrast.F 295 

Swan, J.G 267 

T. 

Taylor, W. B 339, 375, 395, 405, 595 

Thomas, C 601 

Torrev,J 46,60,61 

True,F.W 562,602 

W. 

Ward,L.F 444,460,461 

Watson, S 258 

Webster,H.E 569 

Weismann, A 401 

Welling,J.C 338 

Wetherill, C. M 355 

Whitney, W.D 352 

Whittlesey,C 119,197 

Win8low,F 554 

Wood,H.C 241,282,357 

Wood, J 120 

Woodward, J. J 266 

Y. 
Yarrow,H.C 493,517 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 957 



CLASSIFIED LIST. 
ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, MEDICINE, AND SURGERY. 

No. in 

Catalogue. Price . 

Adams.— Sub-cutaneous surgery. Touer lecture No. 6 302 $0 25 

Baird. — Request for specimens of drugs 541 OsJ 

Beyer. — Catalogue of materia-medica collection, revised 622 ll' 

Brown-S£quard.— Dual cliaracter of the braiu. Toner lecture No. 2 . . 291 25 

Da Costa. — Strain and over-action of the heart. Toner lecture No. 3. 279 25 

Dean. — Gray substance of the Medulla oblongata. (S. C.)* 173 2 50 

Flint. — Catalogue of materia-medica collection 539 10 

Flint. — Ciassihcation of drugs and medicines 451 02 

Flint. — Classification of materia-medica collection 450 02 

Flint. — Memoranda for collectors of drugs 452 02 

Flint. — Report on pharmacopoeias of all nations 5(j0 10 

Holmgren.— Color-blindness in relation to accidents 399 10 

Jones. — Chemical and physiological investigations. Vertebrata. 

(S.C.) 82 1 50 

Keen. — Surgical complications of fevers. Toner lecture No. 5 300 25 

Lautenbach. — Effect of irritation of a polarized nerve 411 25 

Mills. — Mental overwork. Toner lecture No. 9 594 25 

Mitchell and Morehouse. — Anatomy and Physiology of Chelonia. 

(S. C.) 159 .1 00 

Shakespeare. — Reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligatures, 

&c. Toner lecture No. 7 321 25 

Weismann. — Change of Mexican axolotl to amblystoma 401 05 

Wood — Morbid and normal physiology of fever. (S.C.) 357 2 50 

Wood. — Nature and mechanism of fever. Toner lecture No. 4 282 25 

Woodward. — Structure of cancerous tumors. Toner lecture No. 1 .. . 266 25 

ANTHROPOLOGY. iSee also Philology.) 

Abbott. — Stone age in New Jersey 394 25 

Bcehmer.— Judex to Smithsonian anthropological publications 421 10 

Bransford. — Antiquities of Costa Rica 619 10 

Bransford. — Archseological researches in Nicaragua. (S.C.) 383 2 00 

Cope.— West India bone-cave. (S.C.) 489 2 00 

Dall. — Remains of later prehistoric man from Alaska caves 318 2 00 

Desor.— Palafittesof the Lake of Neuchatel 360 10 

GiBBS, Hardisty, Jones, Ross. — Tinneh or Chepewyan Indians 365 10 

GiLLMAN. — Mound-builders and platycuemism in Michigan 393 20 

Gore. — Tnckahoe or Indian bread 482 05 

Haldeman. — Polychrome bead from Florida 404 05 

Henry. — Circular relating to archteology and ethnology 205 02 

Henry. — List of photographic portraits of North American Indians.. 216 10 

Howitt. — Australian group-relations 596 05 

Jones. — Aboriginal structures in Georgia 400 05 

Jones.— Aboriginal remains of Tennessee. (S.C.) 259 3 00 

Kengla. — Archseological map of District of Columbia 537 05 

Knight. — Savage weapons at the Philadelphia Exhibition 415 25 

Lapham.— Antiquities of Wisconsin. (S.C.) 70 10 00 

Mason.— Latimer collection of antiquities from Porto Rico 397 05 

Mason- — Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1879 420 10 

Mason. — Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1881 481 10 

Mason. — Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1882 535 20 

Mason.— Miscellaneous anthi-opological papers for 1883 588 20 

Mason. — Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1884 620 10 

Mason.— Report on anthropology for 1881 488 10 

Mason.— Report on anthropology for 1882 534 10 

Mason.— Report on anthropology for 1883 583 10 

Mason. — Report on anthropology for 1884 618 10 

* Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, quarto. 



!»r)8 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



N(i. ill 
Catalogue. 



Price. 

$0 0.') 


0-2 


no 


05 


1 00 


■ 25 


05 


02 


05 


05 


05 


05 


2 00 


6 00 


05 


02 


05 


6 00 


2 00 



Morgan. — Circuhir relative to lolatiousliii) 138 

NiBLACK. — Instructions for taking paper molds of inscriptions, «fec .. . 590 

Pickering. — Gliddou mummy case. (S. C.) 208 

Kau. — Ancient aboriginal trade in North America 385 

Eau. — Archaeological collection of the U. S. National Museum. (S. C.) 287 

Eau. — Articles on anthropological subjects. (From Eeports S. I.) 440 

Eati. — Artificial shell-deposits in New Jersey 362 

Eau. — Circular relative to aboriginal antiquities 572 

Eau.— Flint implements found in Illinois 370 

Eau. — Drilling in stone without metal 372 

Eau. — Gold ornament from mound in Florida 403 

Eau.— North American stone implements 382 

Eau.— Palenque tablet. (S. C.) 331 

Eau. — Prehistoric lishing in Europe and America. (S. C.) 509 

Eau.— Stock in trade of an aboriginal lapidary 402 

EOMER. — Pre-historic antiquities of Hungary 392 

Simpson. — Corouado's march in search of Cibola 561 

Squier. — Aboriginal monuments of the State of New York. (S. C.) .. 15 

Swan.— Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte's Islands. (S. C.) 267 

Transactions of Anthropological Society of Washington, for 1879-'82. 

Vol. 1 501 1 00 

Transaitions of Anthropological Society of Washington, abstract 

1879-'80 502 100 

Transactions of Anthropological Society of Washington, 1882-'83. 

Vol.2 544 1 00 

Thomas. — DirectioDs for mound exploration 601 02 

ASTRONOMY. 

Alexander.— Harmonies of the solar system. (S. C. ) 280 1 00 

Draper. — Construction of a silvered-giass telescope. (^S. C.) 180 100 

GiLLiss.— Total eclipse of the sun, Peru, Sept. 7, 1858. (S. C.) 100 50 

GouuD.— Transatlantic longitude. (S. C.) 223 1 00 

Hill.— Map of solar eclipse of March 15, 1858 101 02 

HOLDEN and Bcehmer.— Eeport of observatories for 1880 438 25 

HoLDEN. — Index, catalogue of hooks relating to Nebulae 311 50 

HoLDEN.— Eeport on astronomy for 1879 and 1880 427 10 

HOLDEN. — Eeport on astronomy for 1881 483 10 

HoLDEN.— Eeport on astronomy for 1882 .525 10 

HoLDEN.— Eeport on astronomy for 1883 574 10 

HoLDEN.— Eeport on astronomy for 1884 609 10 

Kane. — Astronomical observations in Arctic seas. (S. C.) 129 100 

Newcomb.— Integrals of planetary motion. (S. C.) 281 50 

Newcomb.— Orbit of Neptune. (S.C.) 199 3 00 

Newcomb.— Orbit of Uranus. (S.C.) 262 2 00 

Eunkle.— New tables of planetary motion. (S.C.) 79 50 

EuNKLE. — Asteroid supplement to new tables 94 50 

Stuckwell.— Secular variations of elements of the orbits of planets. 

(S. C.) 232 2 00 

BIBLIOGRAPHY, 

BiNNEY.— Bibliography of North American conchology, Part 1 142 3 00 

BiNNEY. — Bibliograi^hy of North American conchology, Part II 174 2 00 

Bolton. — Catalogue of scientific periodicals 514 3 00 

Gill. — Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast 463 50 

GooDE.— Bibliography of Spencer F. Baird 508 1 00 

Henry.— Catalogue of publications in S. I. Library, 1858 117 1 00 

Henry.— Catalogue of publications in S. I. Librarv, 1866 179 2 00 

Henry.— Publications of societies in S. I. Library,' 1854, Part I 73 25 

Henry.- Publications of societies in S. I. Library, 1856, Part II 85 25 

HoLDEN. — Index catalogue of books and memoirs on Nebulae 311 50 

Je WETT. — Construction of catalogues of libraries 47 50 

Jewett.— Notices of public libraries in the United States 25 50 

List of principal literary and scientific institutions in the United States. 335 02 

Ehees.— Catalogue and index of Smithsonian publications, 1846-'82. .. 478 75 

Rhees.— List of institutions, libraries, colleges, «&c 238 25 

Watson.— Jiibl iographical index to North American botany * 258 2 00 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 959 
BIOGRAPHY. 

No. in 
Catalogue. Price. 

Henry. — Eulogy on Alexander Dallas Baclie 379 $0 05 

Henry, memorial of (by numerous contributors) o5() 50 

Maykr. — Henry as a discoverer 417 25 

Porter and others. — Addresses, Henry statue 585 05 

RilEES. — Smithson and his bequest ;^30 1 00 

Taylor. — Memoir of Josei)h Henry, a sketch of his scientific work... 339 50 

Welling. — Life and character of Joseph Henry 338 25 

BOTANY. 

Eggers. — Flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands 313 50 

Farlow.— Report on botany for 1879-'rf0 430 10 

Farlow. — Repor<; on botany for 1881 48(5 10 

Farlow. — Eeport on botany for 1882 532 10 

Farlow. — Report on botany for 1883 581 10 

Gore. — Tnckahoe, or Indian bread 482 05 

GuYOT and Henry. — Register of periodical phenomena 148 05 

Harvey. — North American marine Alga;, Part III. Chlorospermece. 

(S. C.) 95 fi 00 

Lefroy. — Botanv of Bermuda 564 25 

Torrey.— Batis inaritima. (S. C.) 60 100 

ToRREY. — Darlingtonia Califoruica. (S. C.) 61 100. 

Torrey. — Plantte FremontiansB. (S. C.) 46 3 00 

Ward. — Check-list of plants of Washington 461 05 

Ward. — Directions for collecting and preserving plants 460 05 

Ward. — Guide to the flora of Washington 444 50 

Watson. — Bibliographical index to North American botany 258 2 00 

Wood. — Fresh-water Algae of North America. (S. C.) 241 5 00 

CHEMISTRY AND TECHNOLOGY. 

Baird. — Circular in reference to building-stone collection, U. S. Nat. 

Mus 453 02 

Barkkr. — Report on chemistry for 1881 485 10 

Becker. — Atomic weights 358 3 00 

Bolton. — Report on chemistry for 1882 530 10 

Bolton. — Report on chemistry for 1883 579 10 

Bolton.— Report on chemistry for 1884 614 10 

Booth and Morfit. — Recent improvements in chemical arts 27 50 

Clarke. — Tables of expansion by heat 289 50 

Clarke. — Specific gravity tables, 1st supplement to Part 1 288 50 

Clarke. — Table of specific heat 276 50 

Flint. — Report on pharmacopoeias of all nations 560 10 

GiBBS and Genth. — Researches on the ammonia cobalt bases. (S. C). 88 100 

Hare.— Explosiveness of niter. (S. C.) 17 50 

Hitchcock.— Plan of textile exhibit 597 02 

Hunt.— Chemistry of the earth 376 05 

Jones. — Chemical and physiological investigations of vertebrata. 

(S.C.) ' ■ 82 1 50 

Merrill. — Plan of building-stone exhibit 598 02 

MoRiN. — Warming and ventilating occupied buildings 439 35 

Saothson. — Scientific writings 327 75 

Taylor. — History of Henry's contribution to the telegraph 405 25 

Wetherill. — Ozone and antozone 355 10 

ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM. 

Bache. — Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840-'45. Part I. 

(S. C.) 113 85 

Bache. — Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840-45. Part II. 

(S. C.) 121 25 

Bache. — Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840-45. Part III. 

(S. C.) 132 25 

Bache. — Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840-'45. Part IV to 

VL (S.C.) 162 50 



960 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

Ho. in 
Catalogue. Price. 

Bache. — Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840-45. Part VII to 

IX. (S.C.) 175 1100 

Bacile. — Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840-'45. Part X to 

XIL (S.C.) 186 25 

Bache. — Magnetic survey of Peunsylvania. (S.C.) 166 100 

Gould. — Transatlantic longitude(byelectro-magueticsigual8). (S. C). 223 1 00 

Harkness. — Observations on terrestrial magnerism. (S.C.) 239 100 

Henry. — Communication on the electro-magnetic telegraph 115 05 

Kane. — Magnetical observations in the Arctic Seas. (S. C.) 97 1 00 

MuLLER. — Terrestrial magnetism in Mexico. (S. C. ) 114 1 25 

Secchi. — Eesearches on electrical rheometry. (S.C.) 36 100 

Taylor. — History of Henry's contribution to the telegraph 405 25 

ETHNOLOGY. (See Anthropology and Philology.) 

GEOGRAPHY. 

Green. — Report on geography for 1881 and 1882 527 10 

Green . — Report on geography for 1883 , 576 10 

Green. — Report on geography for 1884 611 10 

GEOLOGY. [See also Paleontology.) 

Barnard. — Internal structure of the earth. (S.C.) 310 25 

Hitchcock. — Illustrations of surface geology. (S. C.) 90 5 00 

Hunt. — Chemistry of the earth 376 05 

Hunt.— Report on geology for 1881 and 1882 526 10 

Hunt.— Report on geology for 1883 575 10 

PuMPELLY. — Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan. 

(S.C): 202 3 00 

Rice. — Geology of Bermuda 563 10 

Whittlesey. — Fresh-water gla"cial drift of the Northwestern States. 

(S.C.) ., 197 1 00 

HYDROGEAPHY. {See Terrestrial Physics.) 

MAGNETISM. {See Electricity.) 
MATHEMATICS. 

Alvord. — Tangencies of circles and spheres. (S.C.) 80 100 

Ferrel. — Converging series, ratio between diameter and circumfer- 
ence. (S.C.) 233 25 

Newcomb.— General integrals of planetary motion. (S.C.) 281 50 

MEDICINE. {See Anatomy, &c.) 
METEOROLOGY. 

Abbe. — Meteorological memoirs by Colding, Ferrel, Hann, Peslin, 

Reye, Sohncke 398 25 

Abbe.— Report on meteorology for 1879 to 1881 484 25 

Abbe. — Report ou meteorology for 1882 528 25 

Abbe. — Report ou meteorology for 1883 577 25 

Abbe. — Report on meteorology for 1884 612 25 

Caswell. — Meteorological observations, Providence, E. I., 1831-60. 

(S.C.) 103 150 

Caswell. — Meteorological observations, Providence, R. I., 1831-'76. 

{S.C.) 443 100 

Chappelsmitii.— Account of tornado, New Harmony, lud. (S.C.)... 59 50 
Cleaveland. — Meteorological observations, Brunswick, Me., 1807-'59. 

(S. C.) 204 1 00 

Coffin.— Meteoric lire- ball, July 20, 1860. (S.C.) 221 1 00 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 961 

No. in 
Catalogae. Price. 

Coffin. — Psychrometriciil tables 87 $0 10 

Coffin. — Winds of the northern hemisphere. (S. C.) 52 .5 00 

Force. — Auroras in higher northern latitudes. (S. C.) 84 100 

GUYOT and Henuy. — Directions for meteorological observations ...... 148 05 

Gu YOT. — Meteorological and physical tables 538 3 00 

Hfxry. — Directions for constructing lightning-rods 237 02 

Henry. — Circular to officers of the Hudson's Bay Company 137 02 

Henry. — Instructions for observations of thundei'-storms 235 02 

Henry. — Eesults of meteorological observations, 1854-'59. Vol. II, 

Parti 182 2 50 

Henry. — Queries relative to tornadoes 190 02 

Henry. — Registry of periodical phenomena 65 02 

HiLDRETH and Wood. — Observations, Marietta, Ohio, 1817-23, 1826-'59. 

(S. C.) 120 50 

Howard. — Nomenclature of clouds 347 05 

LooMiS- — Aurora borealis 584 05 

LoOMis.— Storms in Europe and America, December, 1836. (S. C.)... 127 100 

Loud. — Discussion of Snell's barometric observations 435 10 

McClintock. — Meteorological observations in Arctic seas. (S. C.)-.- 146 100 

McPaklin. — History and climate of New Mexico 396 05 

Meecii. — Relative intensity of heat and light of the sun. (S. C.) 83 1 00 

SCHOTT. — Base chart of the United States 414 05 

ScHOTT. — Rain-charts for summer, vrinter, and the year 374 25 

SCHOTT. — Tables andresults: Rain and snow in the U. S. (S. C.) 222 3 00 

SCHOTT. — Tables and results: Rain and snow in the U. S. (S. C.) Re- 
vised edition 353 3 00 

SciiOTT.— Tables of temperature in the U. S. (S. C.) 277 3 00 

SCHOTT. — Temperature charts of U. S. for summer, winter, and the year. 387 25 

ScHOTT. — Temperature chart of United States for the year 381 05 

Smith. — Meteorological observations, Washington, Arkansas, 1840-'59. 

(S. C.) 131 1 00 

MIOEOSCOPY. 

Bailey. — Microscopical observations, So. Car., Ga., and Fla. (S. C). 

Bailey. — Microscopical examination of soundings. (S. C.) 

Dean. — Gray substance of the Medulla oblongata. (S. C. ) 

Edwards. — Directions for collecting Diatomacea 



23 


2 00 


20 


1 00 


173 


2 50 


366 


05 



MINERALOGY. 

Babinet. — Diamonds and other precious stones 377 05 

Baird. — Circular relating to petroleum collections. National Museum. 447 02 

Brezina. — Principles of crystallography and crystallophysics 386 10 

Clarke. — Plan of gem and precious stone exhibit 599 02 

Dana. — Report, on mineralogy for 1882 531 10 

Dana. — Report on mineralogy for 1883 580 10 

Dana. — Report on mineralogy for 1884 ■. 615 10 

Egleston. — Catalogue of minerals, with their formulas 156 25 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Act to establish the Smithsonian Institution 391 02 

Baird. — Museum miscellanea, numbers, labels, &c 164 50 

Boehmer. — Additions to list of foreign correspondents of S. 1 490 10 

BoEHMER. — History of Smithsonian exchanges 477 10 

BoEHMER. — List of foreign correspondents of S. 1 469 10 

Business arrangements of Smithsonian Institution 325 02 

Circular relative to exchanges 324 01 

Henry.— Circular relative to heights 236 02 

Mason.— Report on Luray Cavern in Virginia in 1880 433 10 

Peabody. — Scientific education of mechanics and artizans 380 05 

Porter and others. — Addresses and ceremonies Henry Statue 585 05 

Rhees. — Catalogue and index of Smithsonian publications, 1846-'62.. 478 75 

H. Mis. 1.5 — CI 



962 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

No. in 

Catalogue. Price. 

Ehees. — Documents relative to history of Smithsonian Institution... 328 $5 00 

Ehees. — List of institutions, libraries, colleges, & c 238 25 

See also Proceedings of societies. 

See also Reports of Smithsonian Institution. 

NATURAL HISTOEY. {See Anatomy, Botany, Microscopy, 
Paleontology, and Zoology.) 

PALAEONTOLOGY. 

Conrad. — Check-list of Eocene and Oligocene fossils of N. A 200 10 

Cope. — West India bone-cave 489 2 00 

Leidy. — Ancient fauna of Nebraska 53 6 00 

Leidy. — Cretaceous reptiles of the U. S. (S. C.) 192 5 00 

Leidy.— Extinct sloth tribe of North America. (S. C. ) 72 3 00 

Leidy. — Extinct species of American ox. (S. C.) 41 100 

Marcou. — Eeport on Palaeontology for 1884 610 05 

Meek. — Check-list of Cretaceous and Jurassic fossils of N. A 177 10 

Meek. — Check-list of Miocene fossils of N. A 183 10 

PHILOLOGY. 

BOWEN. — Grammar and dictionary of the Yoruba language. (S. C.).. 98 4 00 

DORSEY. — Comparative phonology of four Siouan languages 605 05 

GiBBS. — Dictionary of Chinook jargon 161 25 

GiBBS. — Comparative vocabulary 170 05 

LiEBER. — Vocal sounds of Laura Bridgmau. (S. C. ) 12 2 00 

E(EHRiG. — Language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians 378 05 

Whitney. — Lectures on linguistic science 352 25 



PHYSICS. [See also Terrestrial Physics.) 

Barker. — Report on Physics, for 1881 ^ 485 10 

Barker. — Report on Physics, for 1882 529 10 

Barker. — Report on Physics, for 1883 578 10 

Barker. — Report on Physics, for 1884 613 10 

Brezina. — Principles of crystallography and crystalloxihysics 380 10 

Coffin. — Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. (S. C. ) 52 5 00 

Delaunay. — Essay on the velocity of light 354 25 

Draper. — Construction of silvered-glass telescope. (S. C.) 180 1 00 

Gould.— Transatlantic longitude. (S. C.) 223 100 

Gu YOT. — Physical and meteorological tables 538 3 00 

Henry. — Communication on the electro-magnetic telegraph 115 05 

Henry. — Directions for constructing lightning-rods 237 02 

Henry. — Researches on sound 406 25 

Meech.- Relative intensity of heat and light of the sun. (S. C.) 83 100 

SCHOTT.— Base chart of the United States 414 05 

Secchi. — Researches in electrical rheometry. (S. C.) 36 100 

Taylor. — History of Henry's contribution to the telegraph 405 25 

Taylor. —Kinetic theories of gravitation 395 10 

Taylor. — Nature and origin of force 375 05 

Taylor.— Refiaction of sound 595 05 

(See also Bulletins Philosophical Society of Washington.) 

PHYSIOLOGY. {See Anatomy, &c.) 

SEISMOLOGY. {See Terrestrial Physics.) 

SUEGERY. {See Anatomy.) 

TECHNOLOGY^ {See Chemistry, &c.) 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN TUBLICATIONS. IHI.'l 



TERRESTKIAL PHYSICS. {Sec also ELECTi;K;ri'v, (Ieology, 

Meteokology, and Physics.) 

No. in 
Catalogue. Price. 

Davis. — Law of deposit of the flood tide. (S. C.) 33 $0 75 

HiLGARD. — Tides aud tidal action in liarbors "- - 390 0') 

Kane.— Tidal observations iu the Arctic Seas. (S. C.) 130 1 00 

EoCKWOOD. — Keport on vulcanology and seismology for 1884 (il6 0.") 

Whittlesey. — Fluctuations of level in the N. A. lakes. (S. C.) 119 1 00 

VULCANOLOGY. {See Terrestrial Physics.) 

ZOOLOGY, 

GENERAL. 

Baird. — Directions for collecting specimens natural history 34 05 

Cope. — Zoological position of Texas 412 50 

Gill.— Eeport on zoology for 1879 and 1880 431 25 

Gill. — Report on zoology for 1881 487 25 

Gill. — Report on zoology for 1882 533 25 

Gill. — Report on zoology for 1883 582 25 

Gill. — Report on zoology for 1884 617 25 

GooDE. — Catalogue ol collection, animal resources, Philadelphia Exhi- 
bit-ion 3-26 50 

GooDE. — Catalogue of collection, Berlin Fisheries Exhibit 413 50 

GooDE — Catalogue and synopsis of London Fisheries Exhibition 551 25 

GooDE. — Classitication of animal resoui-ces of the United States 297 50 

GoODE aud others. — Catalogue, London Fisheries Exhibition 511 3 00 

Jones and others. — Natural history of Bermuda 495 I 00 

Kidder and others. — Natural history of Kerguelen Island. Part II. 294 50 

KuMLiEN. — Natural history of Arctic America 342 50 

ScuDDER. — Nomenclature Zoologicus. Index of genera , 470 3 00 

Streets. — Natural history of Hawaiian and Fanning Islands 303 50 

See also Bulletins National Museum. 
See also Proceedings National Museum. 
See also Proceedings of societies. 

ZOOLOGY. 

SPECIAL. 

Annelids. 

Webster. —Annelida of Bermuda 569 10 

Birds. 

Baird. — Arrangement of families of birds 210 05 

Baird. — Catalogue of North American birds in Museum, 1857 106 25 

Baird. — Desiderata of birds of Mexico, Central America, »&c 185 . 05 

Baird. — Instructions for collecting nests and eggs 139 05 

Baird.— Review of American birds. Part 1 181 2 00 

Bendire. — Instructions for collecting eggs 603 02 

Brewer.- North American oology. Part I. (S. C. ) 89 5 00 

CouES aud Prentiss. — Avifauna Columbiana. Birds of Dist. of Col.. .500 75 

Elliot. — List of described species of humming-birds 334 10 

Elliot. — Classification and synopsis of Trochilidse. (S. C.) 317 3 00 

Henry. — Circular relative to birds of South America 168 02 

Kidder and Coues. — Natural history of Kerguelen Island. I. Orni- 
thology 293 50 

Kidder and others. — Natural history of Kerguelen Island. 11. 

Oology, &c 294 .50 

Lawre?jce and Sumichrast. — Birds of Mexico 295 50 

Merriam.— Birds of Bermuda 567 05 

RuiD.— Birds of Bermuda 566 10 

RiDGWAY. — Aquatic and other birds of U. S. at London Fisheries 

Exhibition .5.53 10 

E IDGWAY.— Catalogue of Old World birds in Museum 462 02 



004 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



Ko. ill 

Catalogue. Price. 

EiDGWAY. — Nomcuulature of North American birds 422 |0 25 

See also BuUetius National Mnseum. 
See also Proceedings National Museum. 
See also Proceedings of societies. 

Fishes. 

Baird. — Circular in reference to shipping fresh fish 384 02 

Baird. — Questions relative to food fishes of the U. S 234 05 

Baird. — Eeport on fishes of New Jersey coast 348 25 

Bean. — Catalogue of fishes of U. S. at London Fisheries Exhibition . . 556 25 

Bean. — Directions for collecting and preserving fish 464 02 

Brown. — Whale-fishery and appliances at London Fish. Exhib 555 25 

Gill. — Arrangement of families of fishes 247 25 

Gill. — Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast 463 50 

Gill. — Catalogue of fishes east coast North America 283 25 

GOODE. — Catalogue of collection Berlin Fisheries Exhibit 413 50 

GOODE. — Catalogue of animal resources, Philadelphia Exhibition 326 50 

GooDE. — Catalogue of collection and synopsis London Fisheries Exhi- 
bition 551 25 

GooDE. — Catalogue of fishes of Bermuda 296 50 

GooDE and others. — Catalogue London Fisheries Exhibition 511 3 00 

Jordan and Brayton.— N. A. Ichthyology, III. Fishes of Allegheny 

region , 308 50 

Jordan.— N. A. Ichthyology, II. Cottidfe 306 50 

Jordan. — N. A. Ichthyology, I. Eafinesque's North American fishes.. 305 50 

Jordan and Gilbert. — Synopsis of fishes of North America 492 2 50 

Rathbun. — Catalogue of collection illustrating research in sea and 

fresh vraters. London Fisheries Exhibition 557 25 

Insects. 

Baird. — Circular on history of N. Am. grasshoppers 163 02 

Baird. — Circular relating to department of insects, National Museum. 448 02 

De Saussure. — Synopsis of American vpasps 254 2 00 

Fernald. — Directions for collecting moths 600 02 

Hagen. — Synopsis of Neuroptera of North America 134 3 00 

Henry. — Circular to entomologists 178 02 

Le Conte. — Coleoptera of Kansas and eastern New Mexico. (S. C.).. 126 1 25 

Le Conte. — List of coleoptera of North America. Part I 140 75 

Le Conte.— New species of North American coleoptera. Part 1 167 1 00 

Le Conte.— New species of North American coleoptera. Part II 264 1 00 

LOEW and Osten Sacken.— Monographs of diptera of North America. 

Part I 141 1 50 

LoEW.— Monographs of diptera of North America. Part III 256 2 00 

Melsheimer.— Catalogue of coleoptera of North America 62 2 00 

Morris.— Catalogue of lepidoptera of North America 118 1 00 

Morris.— Synopsis of lepidoptera of North America 133 2 00 

Osten Sacken.— Monographs of diptera of North America. Part IV . 219 2 00 

Osten Sacken.— Catalogue of diptera of North America 270 2 00 

Paci>ard. — Directions for collecting and preserving insects of 261 15 

ScuDDER.— Catalogue of orthoptera of North America 189 1 00 

Mammals. 

Baird. — Catalogue of North American mammals in Museum 105 25 

Brown. — Whale-fishery and appliances at London Fisheries Exhibition 555 25 

Gill — Arrangement of the families of mammals 230 25 

Goode. — Catalogue of collection, animal resources, Philadelphia Exhi- 
bition 326 50 

HoRNADAY. — Directions for preserving skins of mammals 589 02 

.Jones.— Mammals of Bermuda 565 10 

True. — Catalogue of aquatic mammals, London Fisheries Exhibition. 562 25 

True.— Plan of mammal exhibit 602 02 

^ Mollusks. 

BiNNEY.— Bibliography of North American Conchology. Part 1 142 3 00 

Binney —Bibliography of North American Conchology. _ Part II 174 2 00 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 065 

No. in 
Catalogne. Price. 

BiNNEY.— Land and fresb-water shells of North America. Pait II 143 $2 00 

BiNNEY. — Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part III... 144 2 00 

Henry. — Circular relative to collecting shells 176 02 

Dall. — Index of brachiopoda 304 50 

List of duplicate shells of Wilkes Exploring Expedition 193 02 

Gill. — Arrangement of families of mollusks 227 25 

Lewis. — Instructions for collecting laud and fresh- water shells 363 05 

Prime. — Monograph of American corbiculadse 145 75 

Stimpson. — Researches upon the hydrobiinaj 201 50 

WiNSLOW. — Economic Mollusca of \J. S. at London Fisheries Exhibition 554 25 

Badiaies. 

Baird. — Circular relative to craw-fish and fresh- water Crustacea 

Clark. — Anatomy and physiology of luceruariiB. (S. C.) 

Rathrun. — Crustacea, etc., of U. S. at London Fisheries Exhibition .. 

Kathbun. — List of marine invertebrates distributed. Series II 

Stimpson. — Synopsis of marine invertebrata of Grand Manan. (S. C. ) . 

Beptiles. 

Baird and Girard. — Catalogue of North American serpents in Museum. 49 1 00 

Cope. — Check List North American Batrachia and Eeptilia 292 50 

Garman. — Reptiles of Bermuda 568 05 

Mitchell and Morehouse. — Anatomy and physiology of chelonia. 

(S. C.) 159 1 00 

Weismann. — Chiiuge of Mexican axolotl to amblystoma 401 05 

Yarrow.— Check-list of reptiles 517 10 

Yarrow — North American Reptilia and Batrachia 493 50 

Shells. (See Mollusks.) 



319 


02 


242 


5 00 


552 


10 


465 


02 


50 


1 00 



966 'LIST OF tiMITHlSONIAX PUBLICATIONS. 

SMITHSOMAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE. 



Vol. 


No. iu S. 
series. 


Date. 


I 


2 


1848 


II 


26 


1851 


III 


38 


1852 


IV 


39 


1852 


V 


55 


1853 


VI 


56 


1854 


VII 


76 


1855 


VIII 


78 


1856 


IX 


92 


1857 


X 


99 


1858 


XI 


111 


1859 


XII 


112 


1860 


XIII 


151 


1863 


XIV 


184 


1865 


XV 


206 


1867 


XVI 


211 


1870 


XVII 


229 


1871 


XVIII 


246 


1872 


XIX 


272 


1874 


XX 


284 


1876 


XXI 


285 


1876 


XXII 


340 


1880 


XXIII 


346 


1881 


XXIV 


547 


1885 


XXV 


606 


1885 



Coutents. (Nos. of Smithsonian series.) 



1 

3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 23 

22, 24, 29, 30, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37 

40 

41,42,43,44,45 

46, 50, 52, 54. 58, 60, 61 . . -■ 

.59, 63, 70, 72, 73 

71,80,81,82,84,85 

79, 83, 86, 88, 90, 94 

95,97,98 

89, 100, 104, 113. 114, 126, 127 

103,119,129,131.135 

121 , 130, 132, 146, 155, 159, 162, 166 

172,175,180,186,192 

196,197,199,202 

120, 173, 204, 203, 220, 221, 223 

218 

222,232,233,239 

240,241,262 

268 

267,277,280,281 

259,269,287,318,331 

242,248,310,317,357 

353,443 

383, 489, 509 



Price. 



Out of 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



print. 



Out of 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 

Out of 



12 00 
12 00 
12 00 
12 00 
print. 



12 00 
print. 
12 00 
12 00 
12 00 
12 00 
10 00 
10 00 
12 00 
12 00 
6 00 
12 00 



SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS. 



Vol. 



I 

II 

III 

IV 

V 

VI 

VII 

VIII 

IX 

X 

XI 

XII 

XIII 

XIV 

XV 

XVI 

XVII 

XVIII 

XIX 

XX 

XXI 

XXII 

XXIII 

XXIV 

XXV 

XXVI 

XXVII 



No. inS. 


Date. 


series. 




122 


1862 


123 


1862 


124 


1862 


125 


1862 


158 


1864 


169 


1867 


191 


1867 


212 


1869 


213 


1869 


250 


1873 


273 


1874 


274 


1874 


312 


1878 


314 


1878 


315 


1878 



Contents. (Nos. of Smithsonian series.) 



322 
336 
337 
416 
423 
424 
468 
475 
496 
504 
505 
506 



1880 

1880 
1880 
1880 
1881 

1881 
1882 
1882 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 



87,148,153 

27, 34, 49, 53, 108, 115, 128, 137, 138, 139, 163, 

176 

102,117,118,136..... 

133,134 

74,142,154 

140,141,167,171 

143, 144, 145, 156. 160, 161, 165, 177, 183, 200, 

201,203 

137, 164, 168, 178, 189, 194, 205, 207, 210, 219. 

174,179 

190, 227, 231, 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 243, 245, 

252,257 

230,247,256,261,264,265 

181,255,263 

292,293,294,295,296,297,303, 304, 305,306 

216, 254, 276, 283, 288, 289, 301, 311 

258, 266, 279, 282, 291, 300, .302, 309, 316, 319, 

320 

253, 270, 321, 324, 325, 334, 335, 344 

328 

329 

332,333..! ...y.\["V.[[V.][\ 

497 

327, .330, 338, 339, 356 

425, 445-459, 462, 464, 465, 467, 471-474 

308, 313, 326, 342, 463 

492 

498. 499, 501 , .502, 503 

319, 4G9. 490, .''.07 

3.J8, -137, -141 , 178, 4H() 



Price. 



Out of print. 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



Do. 
Do. 



|5 00 
5 50 
5 50 



00 
00 
00 
00 
50 
00 
00 
50 
50 
00 
5 50 
4 50 
4 00 



5 
5 
5 
5 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
3 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 
SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS. 



LIG7 



No. of 
report 


No. iu S. 
series. 


Year. 


1 


G 


1846 


2 


H 


1847 


3 


I 


1848 


4 


21 


1849 


5 


28 


18.50 


6 


51 


1851 


7 


57 


1852 


8 


67 


1853 


9 


75 


1854 


10 


77 


1855 


11 


91 


1856 


12 


107 


1857 


13 


109 


1858 


14 


110 


1859 


15 


147 


1860 


16 


149 


1861 


17 


150 


1862 


18 


187 


1863 


19 


188 


1864 


20 


209 


1865 


21 


214 


1866 


22 


215 


1867 


23 


224 


1868 


24 


228 


1869 


25 


244 


1870 


26 


249 


1871 


27 


271 


1872 


28 


275 


1873 


29 


286 


1874 


30 


298 


1875 


31 


299 


1876 


32 


323 


1877 


33 


341 


1878 


34 


345 


1879 


35 


442 


1880 


36 


515 


1881 


37 


540 


1882 


38 


593 


1883 


39 


623 


1884 



Contents. (Nos. of Smithsonian series.) 



A, B, L 

D, K, F 

F, J 

25 

28..: 

51 

57 

E, G, H, I, N, 0, 21, 28, 51, 57, 69 

348 

19 

34 

115 

139,351 

110 : 

152 

160 

150 

352,361 

354, 35'5, 361, 362 

360, 3G4, 37 1, 584 

363,365,368 

367,369 

370,372,373 

251, 376, 561 

375,377,379 

378 

380,382,385,386 

393,439 

390,439 

393, 394, .^95 

307,392,395,397 

396, 398, 399, 400, 401, 402, 403, 404 

405,406,407,408, 411 

33(1, 409, 410, 415, 418, 420, 4-31 

389,419,426, 427,428, 429,430, 431, 432, 433, 434, 

435,436,438 

491,477,479,481, 4fc2, 483, 484, 485, 486, 487, 488, 

491,510 

520,524,525,526,527, 528, 529, 530, 531, 532, 533, 

534 535 

574, 575, 576, 577,' 5v 8, 579, 580, 581, 582, 583, 585, 

586,587,588,605 

608,609,610,611,612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 617, 618, 

620,621 



Price. 



n 
n 
n 

§1 00 
1 00 

(*) 

1 00 

(*) 
n 
n 
n 
n 
(*) 
(*) 
(*) 
(*) 
(*) 



1 
1 
1 
1 

1 
1 

(*) 



50 
50 
00 
00 
00 
00 
50 
00 
00 

50 
00 
50 



(*) 

(*) 
50 
50 

1 00 

50 

50 

50 



(t) 



* Out of print. 



t In press. 



PROCEEDINGS OF SOCIETIES. 

No. 

Anthropological Society of Washington. 

Transactions. Vol. L 1879 to 1882 501 

Abstract of transactions for 1879-'80 502 

Transactions. Vol. II, 1882- '83 544 

Biological Society of Washington. 

Proceedings. Vol. 1, 1880-'82 499 

Proceedings. Vol. II, 1883-'84 - 545 

Philosophical Society of Wasihngton. 

Bulletin. Vols. I, II, III, 1871 to 1880 497 

Bulletin. Vol. IV, for 1881 498 

Bulk-tin. Vol. V, for 1882 r-m 

Bulletin. Vol. VI, for 1883 543 

Bulletin. Vol. VII, for 1884 :.'.>~^ 



Price. 



11 00 
1 00 
1 00 


1 00 

1 00 


4 00 
1 00 
] 00 
1 0(» 
1 00 



968 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

EEPORTS ON RECENT PROGRESS IN SCIENCE. 

Xo. Price. 

Anthropology.— O. T. Mason. 

For 1879 and 1880 432 (^) 

For 1881 488 $0 10 

For 1882 - 5;{4 10 

For 1883 583 10 

For 1884 618 10 

Astronomy. — E. S. Holden. 

For 1879 and 1880 427 10 

For 1881 483 10 

For 1882 525 10 

For 1883 574 10 

For 1884 609 10 

Botany. — W. G. Farlow. 

For 1879 and 1880 430 10 

For 1881 486 10 

For 1882 532 10 

For 1883 581 10 

Chemistry. — G. F. Barker. 

For 1879 and 1880 429 (*) 

For 1881 485 10 

Chemistry. — H. C. Bolton. 

For 1882 530 10 

For 1883 -. 579 10 

For 1884 614 10 

Geography. — F. M. Green. 

For 1881 and 1882 527 10 

For 1883 576 10 

For 1884 611 10 

Geology. — G. W. Hawes. 

For 1879 and 1880 428 (*) 

Geology.— T. S. Hunt. 

For 1881 and 1882 526 10 

For 1883 575 10 

Meteorology.— C. Abbe. 

For 1879 to 1881 ^ 484 25 

For 1882 528 25 

For 1883 577 25 

For 1834 012 25 

Mineralogy.— G. W. Hawes. 

For 1879 and 1880 428 (») 

Mineralogy.— E. S. Dana. 

For 1882 531 10 

For 1883 580 10 

For 1884 615 10 

Palaeontology.— J. B. Marcou. 

For 1884 610 05 

Physics.— G. F. Barker. 

For 1879 and 1880 429 (*) 

For 1881 485 10 

For 1882 529 10 

For 1883 578 10 

For 1884 613 10 

Vulcanology and Seismology. — C. S. Rockwood. 

For 1884 616 05 

Zoology.— T. Gill. 

For 1879 and 1880 431 25 

For 1881 487 25 

For 1882 533 25 

Forl883 582 25 

For 1884 617 26 



* Out of print. 



LIST OF SMITliSONlAK rUBLICATIONS. 91)9 

TONER LECTURES. 

{For advance of Medical Science.) 

Ho. in 
Catalogne. Price. 

No. 1. Structure of cancerous tumors. J, J. Woodward 266 $0 25 

No. 2. Dual character of tbo brain. C. E. Brown-Sequard , 291 25 

No. 3. Strain aud over-action of the heart. J. M. Da Costa 279 2r> 

No. 4. Nature and mechanism of fever. Horatio C. Wood 282 25 

No. 5. Surgical complications of fevers. William W. Keen 300 25 

No. 6. Subcutaneous surgery. William Adams 302 25 

No. 7. Reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature. Edward O. 

Shakespeare 321 25 

No. 8. Sanitary drainage of Washington. George E. Waring, jr 349 (*) 

No. 9. Mental overwork. Charles K. Mills 594 25 

LIST OF BOOKS FOR COLLECTORS AND EXPLORERS. 

No. Price. 

34. Directions for collecting, preserving, «&c., specimens natural history 05 

139. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., nests and eggs 05 

261. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., insects 15 

460. Directions for collecting, preserving, (fee, plants 05 

366. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c , diatoms 05 

363. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., land and fresh water shells 05 

319. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., crawfish and Crustacea 02 

384. Directions for shipping fresh fi^h 02 

464. Directions for collecting fish 02 

205. Directions for collecting archseological specimens 02 

572. Directions for collecting aboriginal antiquities 02 

148. Directions for meteorological observations _. 05 

517. Check-list, reptiles and batrachians 10 

164. Museum miscellanea, series of numbers, &c 50 

589. Dii-ections for removing and preserving skins of mammals 02 

590. Instructions for taking paper molds of inscriptions in stone, wood, «S:c 02 

600. Directions for collecting tortricids and small moths 02 

601. Di rections for mound explorations 02 

603. Instructions for collecting eggs 02 

626. Notes on the preparation of skeletons 02 

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

[Note. — Published under the direction of the "Secretary of the Interior," Washing- 
ton, to whom all applications for them should be addressed.] 

Smithsonian 
number. 

1. Bulletin No. 1. Cope. Check list N. A. Batrachia and Reptilia 292 

2. Bulletin No. 2. Kidder and Coues. Natural History Kerguelen Island. Pt. 1. 29^5 

3. BulletinNo.3. Kidder and others. Natural History Kerguelen Island. Pt.2. 294 

4. Bulletin No. 4. Lawrence and Sumicbrast. Birds of Mexico 295 

5. Bulletin No. 5. Goode. Catalogue of fishes of Bermuda 296 

6. Bulletin No. 6. Goode. Classification of animal resources of the U. S. .. 297 

7. Bulletin No. 7. Streets. Natural Histoiy Hawaiian and Fanning Islands. 303 

8. Bulletin No. 8. Dall. Index of Brachiopoda 304 

9. Bulletin No. 9. Jordan. N. A. Ichthyology. I. Eafinesque, North Ameri- 

can fishes 305 

10. Bulletin No. 10. Jordan. N, A. Ichthyology. II. Cottida) 306 

11. Bulletin No. 11. Gill. Bibliography of fishes of Pacific Coast 463 

12. Bulletin No. 12. Jordan and Brayton. N. A. Ichthyology. III. Fishes, 

Alleghany region 308 

13. Bulletin No. 13. Eggers. Flora of St. Croix and Virgin Islands 313 

14. Bulletin No. 14. Goode. Catalogne of collection, Philadelphia Exhibition. 32'j 

15. Bulletin No. 15. Kumlien. Natural History of Arctic America 342 

16. Bulletin No. 16. Jordan and Gilbert. Synopsisof fishes of North America. 492 

17. Proceedings National Museum for 1878. Vol. I 332 



* Out of print. 



070 



LIST OF SMITIISUNIA^' PUBLICATIONS. 



Smithsonian 
1 nnmber. 

18. Bulletins National Mnseum. Ko8. I to 10. Vol.1 5i;j 

19. Proceedings National Museum for 1879. Vol. II 333 

20. Bulletin No. 17. Cope. Zooloj^ical position of Texas.. 412 

21. Bulletin No. 18. Goode. (.'iitalogue ol' collection, Berlin Fisheries Exhibit. 413 

22. Bulletin No. 19. Scudder. Nonuiulatiire Zoolofiicns. Index of genera. .. 470 

23. Bulletin No 20. Goode. Bibliography of 8. F. Baird 508 

24. Bulletin No. 21, Ridgway. Numenclatu re North American hix'ds 422 

25. Proceedings National Mnseum for 18S0. Vol. Ill 425 

26. Bulletin No. 22. Ward. Guide to the flora of Washington, D. C 444 

27. Proceedings National Museum for 1881. Vol. IV .. 467 

28. Bulletins National Museum. Nos. 11 to 15. Vol.11 519 

29. Bulletin No. 23 

30. Bulletin No. 24. Yarrow. North American Reptilia and Batrachia 49o 

31. Bulletin No. 25. Jones and others. Natural History of Bermuda , 495 

32. Bulletin No. 26. Cones and Prentiss. Avifauna Columbiana. Birdsof Dis- 

trict Columbia 500 

33. Bulletin No. 27. Goode and others. Catalogiie, London Fisheries Exhibition. 511 

34. Proceedings National Museum for lrf82. Vol. V 518 

35. Bulletins Nationi'l Museum. No. IG. Vol. Ill • 

36. Proceedings National Museum for 1883. Vol. VI 548 

37. Proceedings National Museum for 1884. Vol. VII 607 

BULLETINS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



No. 


1 

.a 


a 

3 
4) 

S3 !E 

S-2 


1 

o 

si 


Price. 


No. 


i 

-a 


a 
p 

3 tn 




Price. 






.2S 

d 


-1 

d 5 








C3 0^ 

1 


a ^ 
.3 a 

o a 




1 


1875 


1 


292 


|0 50 


15 


1879 


15 


342 


$0 50 


2 


1^75 


2 


293 


50 


16 


1882 


16 


492 


2 50 


3 


1876 


3 


294 


50 


17 


1880 


20 


412 


50 


4 


1875 


4 


295 


50 


18 


1880 


21 


413 


50 


5 


1876 


5 


296 


50 


19 


1882 


22 


470 


3 00 


6 


1876 


6 


297 


50 


20 


1884 


23 


508 


1 00 


7 


1877 


7 


303 


50 


21 


1881 


24 


422 


25 


8 


1877 


8 


304 


50 


22 


1881 


29 


444 


50 


9 


1877 
1877 


9 
10 


305 
306 


50 

50 


23 
24 








« 


10 


1883 


30 


493 


50 


11 


1882 


11 


463 


50 


25 


1884 


31 


495 


1 00 


12 


1878 


12 


308 


50 


26 


1884 


32 


500 


75 


13 


1879 


13 


313 


50 


27 


1885 


33 


511 


3 00 


14 


1879 


14 


326 


50 













PEOCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 







a 


1 

o 








a 


1 
o 




Volume. 




J- 

s 

S to 

S-2 


to . 

as 

02 <» 


Price. 


Volume. 




3 
S 

to . 
3 to 

S-2 


to . 

J to 

'a'S 

02 =0 


Price. 




t^ 


.ss 


^ 9 








.as 


S 






u 


■ 










, 








o 


o 


o a 






O 


o 


o a 






fe 


^ 


^ 






fe 


^ 


:2i 




I 


1878 


17 


332 


$2 00 


V 


1882 


34 


518 


$2 00 


II 


1879 


19 


333 


2 00 


VI 


1883 


36 


548 


2 (10 


III 


1880 


'^5 


425 


2 00 


VII 


1884 


37 


607 


2 00 


IV 


1881 


27 


467 


2 00 

1 













In press. 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 1)71 



CIRCULARS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



Smithsonian 



Price. 



nnmber. 

1. Plan of organization and regulations. G. Brown Goode 445 $0 05 

2. To " friends of the Museum." Spencer F. Baird 446 02 

3. Petroleum collections. Spencer F. Baird 447 02 

4. Department of insects. Spencer F. Baird 448 02 

5. Establishment and oflQcers. Spencer F. Baird 449 02 

6. Classification of materia-medica collection. James M. Flint 450 02 

7. Classification of drugs and medicines. James M. Flint 451 02 

8. Memoranda for collectors of drugs. James M. Flint 452 02 

9. Building-stone collection. Spencer F. Baird 453 02 

10. Letters on work of the Museum. Barnet Phillips 454 02 

11. Provisional classification of food collection. G. Brown Goode 455 05 

12. Classification of taxidermist's collection. W. T. Hornaday 456 02 

13. Scheme of Museum classification. G. Brown Goode 457 02 

14. Requesting material for the library. Spencer F. Baird 458 02 

15. Organization and objects of the Museum. G. Brown Goode 459 02 

16. Plans for installation of the collections. G. Brown Goode 472 02 

17. Acknowledgment of contributions. Spencer F. Baird 473 02 

1«. List of publications of the Museum, 1875-18S1 474 02 

19. Catalogue of materia-medica collection. James M. Flint 539 10 

20. Request for specimens of drugs. Spencer F. Baird 541 02 

21. Instructions for collections of aboriginal antiquities. CharlesRau. 572 02 

22. Directions for preserving skins of mammals. W. T. Hornaday 589 02 

23. Instructions for taking paper molds of inscriptions, &c. A. P. 

Niblack .... 500 02 

24. Plan of textile exhibit at New Orleans Exposition. R.Hitchcock. 597 02 

25. plan for collection of building stones and rocks at New Orleans Ex- 

position. G.P.Merrill 598 02 

26. Plan for collection of gems and precious stones at New Orleans 

Exposition. F.W.Clarke 599 02 

27. Directions for collecting moths. C. H. Fernald 600 02 

28. Directions for mound exploi-ation. Cyrus Thomas COl 02 

29. Plan for collection of mammals at New Orleans Exposition. F. W. 

True 602 02 

30. Instructions for collecting eggs. C. E. Bendire 603 02 

31. Plan for exhibit of mineral resources at New Orleans Exposition. 

Frederick P. Dewey 604 02 

32. Catalogue of materia-medica collection, revised. H.G.Beyer 622 10 

33. Notes on the preparation of skeletons. F. A. Lucas 626 02 



INDEX 



A. 

Page. 

Abadiano, Eufemio, deposit of casts aud antiquities made by 3o 

Act of Congress relating to exchange of Government documents 20 

Acting Secretary of Institution, appointment of xii, xiii 

Acts and Resolutions of Congress - 335 

Africa, correspondents in 71 

A frica, exchanges for 66, 67 

Agricultural Department, collection of American woods received from 27 

collection of mounted birds received from 3r> 

collection of textile libers fi-om 30 

Alilstrand, M., co-operation of 69 

"Albatross," Fish-Commission steamer, collections by 35,37,39 

explorations by 8, 45, 46 

Alcohplic specimens, building required for 7 

Algeria, corresjiondents in 71 

exchanges for 66 

Atlas Steamship Company, acknowledgment to 19 

Allen, Mr., analyses made by 44 

Allgemeines Deutsches Vereins Handbuch 70 

Alvii), M., co-operation of 69 

America, exchanges for 66, 67 

America, North, correspondents in 74 

America, South, correspondents in 80 

American Colonization Society, acknowledgment to 19 

American Fisheries Society, meetings of 28 

American Institute of Mining Engineers, collection presented by 45 

American Land-shells, manual of . .- 28 

American Museum of Natural History, N. Y. , collection of building-stones for. 22 

American Observatories 457 

American Ornithologists' Uniou, meetings of 34 

American prehistoric pottery section of the National Museum 29, 32 

American native sculpture 33 

American woods, collection of 27 

Analyses made by Mr. Allen 44 

Anatomy, Comparative, Department of. National Museum 29,36 

Anchor Steamship Line, acknowledgment to 19 

Augeli, M., co-operation of C9 

Animal-product section of the National Museum 29 

Annual meeting of the Regents, time of, changed xiv 

Anthropology, account of progress in 12, 14, 17, 815 

Anthropology, miscellaneous j)apers on 12, 14, 17,871 

973 



974 INDEX. 

ra}!,o. 

All tiq 111 ties, oasts ol', d(ii>o.sile(l iu Natioiiul Miiseimi :',2 

Autiqiiities, departmeut of, National Miiseuiii 29, <^2 

Autiquities scut to New Orleans Exposition ;53 

Apparatus of Dr. Joseph Priestley 31 

physical, of the Smithsonian Institution 31 

Appendix, general, to the Report for 1885 339 

Application for publications, form of 2t)0 

Appropriation. (See Congress, apiiroiiriatious by) 335 

for Bureau of Ethnology xvii, 45, 336 

for exchanges x vii, 4, 19, 336 

for National Museum x vi , 5, 3:55 

for new Army Medical Museum building 6, 336 

for packing exhibit xvii, 'i7, 335 

Archaeological explorations 8, 9 

Argentine Republic, correspondents in 80 

exchanges from - 65, 66 

Argo Works, collection from 44 

Arizona, explorations in 9 

specimens from 32 

Arkansas, correspondents in 261 

exchanges for 67 

Armory building occupied by Fish Commission 5 

preservation of collections iu, Congressional appropriation for 335 

Army Medical Museum, exchauge with 24, 36 

new building 6,336 

Arrieta, J., relative to exchange with Uruguay and Chili 57 

Arskatalog for Svenska Bokhaiideln 70 

Art and Industry Departmeut, National Museum • 29 

Asia, correspondents in 84 

exchanges for 66, 67 

Assistants, temporary, in exchange office 48 

Astronomical Observatories, list of 457 

Astronomy, account of progress in 13, 17, 343 

Atlas Steamship Company, acknowledgment to 19 

Atropia, investigation upon, by Dr. Beyer 30 

Atwater, Prof. W. C, acting curator, National Museum 29 

Australasia, correspondents in 88 

exchanges for 66, 67 

Australia, correspondents in 88 

Austria-Hungary, correspondents in 92 

exchanges with 21,58,66 

Austrian Ministry of Worship and Public Instruction, publications of 64 

Azores, correspondents in 71 

Aztec Calendar Stone, cast of 33 

• Goddess of Death, cast of 33 

B. 

Bailey & Co., H. B., acknowledgment to 19 

Baird, Prof S. F., letter to Hon. F. T. Frelinghuysen 57 

Report for 1883 12 

Report for 1884 13 

Report on Bureau of Ethnology 45 

Report on United States Fish Commission 45 

Report on United States Geological Survey 45 



INDEX. 975 

IJaiid, Trot'., S. F. — Continued. 

R('l)(>it on TIniteil States National Museum "M 

Eeport to Board of Regents : 1-4(5 

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, acknowledgments to 20 

Barker, Dr. George F. , rejiort on progress in physics 12, 14, 17, 579 

Barnard. Dr. F. A. P . , trustee ot the Tyndall fund 20 

Barnum, Bailey and Hutchinson, zoological specimens'from 24,33 

Batrachiaus (Reptiles and) of North America, report on 15 

Baumhauer, Professor von, co-operation of 69 

Bavaria, exchanges for 66 

official publications received from 50 

Bean, Dr. Tarletou H., curator, National Museum 29, 35 

sent out on steamer "Albatross " 35 

editor of Museum iniblications 37 

papers by 15, 16 

B(5bian, L. de, acknowledgment to 19 

Bjc-cultnre, display of, in National Museum 38 

Belgiqne, Bibliographic de 70 

Belgium, correspondents in 102 

exchanges with 65, 66 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, honorary curator. National Museum 29 

papers by 16 

Benedict, Mr. , collections made by 35 

Bermudas, correspondents in .' 79 

Berriuni, Dr. J. Carlos, collection received from 30 

Beyer, Dr. H. G., honorary curator. National Museum 28 

classilication by, of the materia medica coUeption in the National Museum. 28 

investigations by 30 

paper by 17 

Bibliographic de Belgiqne 70 

Bibliography of the publications on fossil invertebrates 28 

of the publications of Isaac Lea 27 

Bibliothek des Deutschen Reichstags, Katalog der 70 

Billings, Dr. John S., examination of zoological specimens 24 

Binuey, W. G., Manual of American Land Shells 28 

Biological Society of Wa.shington, meetings of 28 

proceedings of the 13 

Birds, department of, National Museum 29, ;{4 

fi'om Coznmal, Yukatan 35 

mounted, received from Agricultural Department 35 

Bixby, Thomas E., «fe Co., acknowledgments to 19 

Blenk, Dr. E., co-operation of _. 70 

Board of Regents. (See Regents. ) 

Bodio, Dr., co-operation of 69 

Boehmer, George H. , in charge of exchange bureau 18 

papers by 69,457,495,513 

report ou Smithsonian exchanges 18, 47 

visit to Europe on exchange business 20, 47 

Bolivia, correspondents in 81 

Bolton, Prof. H. Carrington, account ot progress in chemistry 14, 17, 639 

index to literature of Uranium 915 

Bond, George W. , collection of wood received from 30 

Books for Smithsonian library 21,49 

used in preparing list of foreign correspondents 70 

wanted for the Library of Congress 50 



97G INDEX. 

Pago. 

iJootli, Heury, paper by 12, 17 

Borland, B. R., acknowledgment to 19 

Botanical specimeus from Lady Franklin Bay 7 

work of the department of plants, National Museum 41 

Botany, report on progress in 17 

Boulton, Bliss & Dallett, acknowledgment to 19 

Boye-Strom, M., co-operation of 69 

Bransford, Dr. J. F., antiquities of Pantaleon, Guatemala 14 

Brazil; correspondents in 81 

exchanges for 66 

Brick workshop, condition and purpose of 6 

Bright, Humphrey & Co., contractors for Army Medical Museum building. . 7 

British America, correspondents in 74 

British Burmah, correspondents in 84 

British Guiana, correspondents in 81 

Brown, A. E., zoological specimens from 24,33 

Brown, J. Temple, paper J)y 15 

Brown, Vernon H., & Co., acknowledgment to 19 

Bruun, M., co-operation of 69 

Buildings 5,6 

Armory 5 

Army Medical Museum 6 

bricl< workshop 6 

for alcoholic specimens 7 

National Museum rj-7 

Smithsonian 5 

temporary workshop 6 

Building-stones, collection of 43 

for the American Museum of Natural History in New York 22 

Bulletins of the National Mu.seum L4, 27, 28 

of the Philosophical Society of Washington 13 

Bureau of Education, co-operation of 32 

Bureau of Ethnology, collections received from 32 

Congressional appropriation for 45 

Congressional resolution relating to printing of reports of the 337 

excha^iges 64 

report on, by Professor Baird 45 

publications of the 17 

under the direction of Maj. J. W. Powell 45 

uuder the supervision of the Smithsonian Institution 45 

Bureau des Longitudes, Annuarie 70 

Bureau of Navigation, exchanges 64 

Burgess, Edward, dipterological collection received from 37 

C. 

Caffeine, investigation upon physiological action of 30 

Cazeaux, H., acknowledgment to 19 

Calendario General del Regno d'ltalia 70 

California, correspondents in 261 

exchanges for 67 

Cameron, R. W., & Co., acknowledgment to 19 

Canada, correspondents in 74 

exchanges for 66 

geological survey of, collections received from 8 



INDEX. 977 

Page. 

Cape Colouy, correspondents in 71 

exchanges for (iG 

Card catalof^nes of exchange service 48 

" Carlile P Patterson," Coast Survey steamer, explorations by 8 

Cases in Museum , 27 

Castro, Carlos do, relative to the establishment of exchange office in Uruguay. 54, 56 

Casts of antiquities deposited in National Museum 32 

Catalogue of Government publications, copies for the Institution 337 

of the Catlin collection of Indian paintings 31 

Catalogues turned over to the Bureau of Education 22 

Catlin Indian collection, catalogueof * 31 

Central America, correspondents in 76 

explorations in 9 

Central Park menagerie, Kew York, zoological specimens from 24,33 

Certificate of accounts given by Executive Commi ttee 4 

Cetaceans, stranding of 33 

Ceylon, correspondents in -• 85 

Change of time of printing annual report 2 

Chase, Henry E., paper by 12, 17 

Check list of plants ^ 41 

Chemical apparatus of Dr. Joseph Priestley 31 

investigation of cinchona bark , 30 

Chemistry, account of progress in 14,17, 639 

Chili, correspondents in 82 

exchanges for 66 

exchanges publications with Uruguay 56 

Chi na, correspoudents in 84 

ancient earthworks in, by Mark Williams 907 

Cinchona bark, chemical investigation of 30 

Chiriqui, Panama, ancient pottery from 32 

Cincinnati exhibit, accessions from, for National Museum 26 

Circular of the National Museum 16, 28 

Clark, A. Howard, in charge of historical relics in the National Museum 29 

paper by 15 

service of 28 

Clarke, Prof. F.W., honorary curator, National Museum 29,42 

papers by 16 

Classification of the materia medica collection 28 

Coast and Geodetic Survey, exchanges 64 

Coast Survey steamer " Carlile P. Patterson," exploration by 8 

Cocaine, investigation upon physiological action of 30 

Ccelenteratu, collections of 39 

Coleoptera sent by the Rev. C. H. A. Dall 37 

Collection of American woods 27 

' of building stones 22, 43 

of fossil invertebrates, bibliography of 28 

of mounted birds received from Department of Agriculture 35 

Collections at New Orleans, restoration of, Congressional appropriation for.. 335 
Collections received from : 

Aym6,L.H 9 

Dug^s, Professor 9 

Fisher, W.J 8 

Geological Survey of Canada 8 

Greely, Lieutenant, botanical specimens from 7 

H. Mis. 15 G2 



978 INDEX. 

Page. 
Collections received from : 

Johnson, Mr 8 

Jones, Dr. W. H 9 

Kiefer, George 9 

McLean, John J 8 

Niblack, Ensign A. P 8 

Nelson, E.W 9 

Palmer, Dr. Edward , 9 

Rock, Prof. Miles 9 

Shufeldt, Dr. R.W 9 

Taylor, Dr. F. W ♦- 9 

Towusend, Charles H 8,9 

Turner, Liicien M 8 

Wilson, Thomas 9 

Woolfe, Henry D 8 

Zeledon, J. C 9 

Collection of iibers received 30 

Collections, preservation of, Congressional appropriation for 335 

safety of the 7 

Collins, J. W., honorary curator, National Museum 29 

paper by 15 

Colorado, correspondents in 263 

exchanges for H7 

Commander Islands, ornithological explorations in ^he 28 

Compaguie G6u6rale Transatlantique, acknowledgment to 19 

Comparative Anatomy, department of, in National Museum 29, 36 

Concrete walk in the grounds 5 

Conchological display of the Museum at the New Orleans Exposition 36, 37 

Congress, acts and resolutions of 20, 335 

action of, relative to printing of annual reports n, 3, 337 

Congress, appropriations by, for packing exhibits consigned to Museum 27 

for international exchanges 19, 336 

for National M useum .- 335 

for Naval Observatory, freight on exchanges 336 

for North American Ethnology 46, 336 

for preservation of collections in Armory building 335 

for restoring collections from New Orleans Exposition .335 

for Smithsonian building 336 

for War Department, freight on exchanges 336 

Conklin, W. A., contributed zoological specimens 24, ;?3 

Connecticut, correspondents in 263 

exchanges for 67 

Consuls of foreign governments, thanks to 20 

Contributions to Knowledge 10, 11 

Prehistoric fishing in Europe 11 

Volumes XXIV and XXV issued 11 

Contributions of specimens by U. S. Geological Survey 45 

Co-operative relations of the Institution 22 

Bureau of Education 22 

Diplomatic Review - 22 

duplicate collection of building stones for the American Museum of Natural 

History, New York 22 

Newfoundland, postage on exchanges 23 

zoological specimens contributed by menageries 24 



INDEX. 979 

Page. 
Cope, Professor E. D., report on the reptiles and batrachians of North 

America -. 15 

Copp6e, Dr. Henry, member of Executive Committee of Board of Regents. . 2 

expiration of term as Regent 2 

Copper implements from Wisconsin 892 

Copper Queen Company, collection presented by 44 

Correspondents of the Institution, domestic 259 

foreign 69 

" Corwin," revenue cutter, explorations by 8 

Costa Rica, collections from 32 

correspondents in 76 

Cozumel, Yukatan, birds from 35 

Creek Indians, primitive storehouse of 900 

Cuba, correspondents in 79 

exchanges for 66 

Cullom, Hou. Shelby M., appointed Regent 2 

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Company, thanks to 19 

Gushing, Frank H., paper by, in Annual Report of Bureau of Ethnology.. . 18 

D. 

Daheim Kalendar 70 

Dall, William H. , honorary curator. National Museum 29,36 

papers by 16 

Dall, Rev. C. H. A. , collections and specimens received from 32, 37 

Dana, Prof. Edward S., report on progress in mineralogy 14, 17, 689 

Delaware, correspondents in 265 

exchanges, for 67 

Denmark, correspondents in 108 

exchanges with , 65,66 

official publications received from 50 

Deunison, Thomas, thanks to 19 

Department of Agriculture, collections received from 30, 35 

Department of Interior exchanges 64 

Department of Justice exchanges 64 

Department of State exchanges 64 

Departments of the National Museum. {See National Museum) 29 

Deutscbes Vereins, Handbuch, Allgeraeines 70 

Dewey, Fred. P., curator National Museum 29,43 

duties of, at New Orleans Exposition 43, 44 

papers by 16,17 

Dinoceras bones, casts of, placed on exhibition 36 

Diplomatic Review distributed by the Institution 22 

Dipterological collection received from Edward Burgess , 37 

Disbursement of appropriations 4,5 

Distribution of Diplomatic Review 22 

of publications 10, 259 

District of Columbia, correspondents in 265 

exchanges for 67 

Dolphin, spotted, reward offered for capture of 33 

Domestic correspondents, list of 259 

Domestic exchanges 19,49 

receipts 65,66 

transmissions ,,..., , , 67 



980 INDEX. - 

Page. 
Donaldson, Thomas, illustrated catalogne of the Catlin collection of Indian 

paintings, prepared by 31 

Donaldson, Thomas, in charge of collection presented by the American Insti- 
tute of Mining Engineers 45 

Donations made to Museum 7 

Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen, on the comparative phonology of four Sioux lan- 
guages -' 12 

papers by 17, 18 

Drolsum, Axel Chariot, co-operation of 70 

Dugfes, A., collection received from 9 

Dutch Guiana, correspondents in 83 



Earll, R. Edward, curator, National Museum 29 

paper by - !•> 

Echini, collections of 39 

j:conomic geology, department of, National Museum 29, 4:5 

Ecuador, correspondents in 8:} 

Egypt, correspondents in 72 

exchanges for - - 66 

Election of Regents 2 

Electrial apparatus of Dr. Joseph Priestley 31 

Electrical service. Congressional appropriation for 335 

Engineer Bureau, U. S. A., exchanges 64 

Entomological Society of Washington, meeting of 28 

Entomology, researches in - 38 

Eruptions, volcanic, in Iceland, report on 495 

Ethnological collections secured from New Orleans Exposition 32 

Ethnological Bureau appropriation, disbursement of 5 

Ethnological investigation, plan of - 907 

Ethnology, Bureau of, exchanges 64 

publications of 17 

Ethnology, department of, National Museum 29, :52 

Ethnology, North American, Congressional appropriation for '.V.i6 

Europe, exchanges with , (iH, G7 

explorations in 9 

visit to, on exchange business — - 47, 49 

Examination of vouchers 5 

Executive Committee of Board of Regents, Dr. Henry Copp6e appointed 

member of. 2 

Exchange agency for Europe recommended 52 

bureau established in Uruguay 55 

of mammals by National Museum 33 

of minerals 42 

of publications between Uruguay and Chili 56 

service in Europe 51 

with Austria 58 

with Uruguay 52 

Exchanges, international, appropriation for 4,336 

promotion of, by transportation companies 67 

report on 47 

domestic division 49 

extension of system 52 

foreign division - 48 



INDEX. 981 

Page. 

Exchanges, report on, government division 49 

statistics 64 

visit to Europe relative to 47 

with Newfoundland, postage free 23 

Executive Committee of the Regents x 

report of xv 

Expenditures of the Institution xv, 4 

Explorations, account of ? 

along the coast of the Gulf of Mexico 8 

along the east coast of the United States 8 

along the west coast of the United States 8 

by Coast Survey steamer "CarlileP. Patterson" 8 

by Professor Dug^s ^ 

by Fish Commission steamer "Albatross" 8, 45, 4t'> 

by W. J, Fisher 8 

by Lieutenant Greely "^ 

by Mr. Johnson 8 

by Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. A - ^ 

by George Kiefer , ^ 

by John J. McLean 8 

byE. W.Nelson '^ 

by Ensign A. P. Niblack 8 

by Dr. Edward Palmer 9 

by Prof. Miles Rock 9 

by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt 9 

by Lieut. George M. Stoney 8 

by James G. Swan 8 

by Dr. F. W. Taylor , • 9 

by Charles H. Townsend 8,9 

by Lucien M. Turner 8 

by Thomas Wilson - 9 

by Henry D. Woolfe 8 

by J. C. Zeledoh 9 

in Alaska 8 

in Arizona 9 

in British Provinces ^ 

in Central America 9 

in Europe 9 

in Greenland "^ 

in Labrador "^ 

in Lower California 9 

in Mexico -- 9 

in New Mexico - 9 

in South America 9 

in Washington Territory 8 

of fishing banks 8,9 

of steamer Albatross "^9 

Explorations, ornithological, in the Commander Islands and in Kamtschatka 28 

Exposition at New Orleans, participation in, by National Museum 26 

Extension of exchange service ^2 

F. 

Farini, Carlos, letter of f>4 

Farlow, W. G., report on progress in botany 17 

Faxon, Prof. Walter, studies upon crayfish 39 



982 INDEX. 

Page. 

Fernald, C. H., papers by 16 

Fibers, collections of, received by National Museum 30 

Fire-proofing of Smithsonian building 5, 336 

Fiscal year adopted by the Regents xiv, 1, 2 

Fish Commission of the United States 45 

exchanges 65 

exploration by steamer Albatross 8,45,46 

investigations at Wood's Holl 46 

report on 45 

use of the Armory building by 5 

work done by 45 

Fisher, W. J., collections received from 8 

Fisheries of the United States, special report upon the 98 

Fisheries section of the National Museum 29, 31 

Fisheries Society, American, meetings of 28 

Fishes, Albatross collection of 35 

Fishes, department of, National Museum : 29, ;'.5 

Fishing banks, exploration of 8, 9 

Flint, Dr. James M., classification of the materia medica collection. National 

Museum 28 

paper by 1~ 

Florida, correspondents in 268 

exchanges for 67 

shell-heaps and mounds in 902 

Foerste, Augustus A., paper by 12, 17 

Foerstemann, Dr., co-operation of 69 

Foods, investigation upon physiological actions of 30 

Section of. National Museum 29, 30 

Foreign correspondents, list of 47, 69 

exchange division 48 

exchanges 19 

receipts 64, 66 

transmissions • 66 

Governments, exchanges for 65 

publications of 21 

Ministers, thanks to ' 20 

Observatories, list of 460 

Foreman, Dr. Edward, death of 24 

Forepaugh, Adam, zoological specimens from 24, 33 

Form of application for publications 260 

Forrer, A. , collections received from 39 

Fort Chimo, Labrador, exploration of region about 8 

Fossil invertebrate, collection of, in National Museum, bibliography of 38 

department of, in National Museum 29, 40 

Fossil plants, department of, in National Museum 29, 40 

France, correspondents in 110 

exchanges with 65,66 

explorations in 9 

official publications received from 50 

Francis, Hon. John M., letter to Count Szogy6nyi 60 

letters of, to Hon. F. T. Frelinghuysen 59, 62 

Franking privilege on exchanges for Newfoundland 23 

Freight on exchanges. Congressional appropriation for 336 

Frelinghuysen, Hon. F. T., letters to Professor Baird. 52,58 



INDEX. 983 

Page. 

Fund, Smithsonian, condition of XV, 4 

Funch, Edye & Co., acknowledgments to 20 

Furniture and fixtures. Congressional appropriation for 335 

G. 

Gatschet, A. S., paper by 18 

Geography, account of progress in 14, 17,543 

Geological Survey of Canada, collections received from 8 

Geological Survey of the United States, building required for 7 

contributions of specimens to National Museum 45 

exchauges 65 

Maj. J. W. Powell, Director 45 

report on 45 

Geology, report on progress in 17 

Georgia, correspondents in 268 

exchanges for 67 

Gerber, Dr. von, co-operation of 69 

Germany, correspondents in 143 

exchanges with , 65,66 

Gibbon received in exchange 33 

Gill, Theodore, account of progress in zoology 12, 14, 17, 763 

papers by 16 

Gilbert, Charles H., papers by 16 

Goode, G. Brown, assistant director, U. S. National Museum 29 

curator, National Museum , 29 

papers by 16 

Goodrich, J. King, report on progress in geography 543 

Gotha Alraanach 70 

Government Department exchanges 20, 64 

receipts 65, 66 

transmissions 68 

publications, catalogue of 337 

jirice-list of 51 

Governments in Europe visited 49 

Gray, Prof. Asa, expiration of term as Regent 2 

paper by 16 

Great Britain, correspondents in 194 

exchanges with 65,66 

Greece, correspondents in 217 

exchanges with 66 

Greely, Lieutenant, specimens received from 7 

Green, Commander F. M., account of progress in geography 14,17 

Guatemala, correspondents in 77 

exchanges with 66 

Guesde collection of antiquities 14 

Gulf of Mexico, exijlorations in 8 

Guinea, correspondents in 72. 

Guyot, Dr. Arnold, tables, meteorological and physical 12 

H. 

Hamburg- American Packet Company, acknowledgment to 19 

Hartmann, Dr., co-operation of 69 

Hatch, Tasmania Almanac 70 



984 INDEX. 

Page. 

Hayti, exchanges with 66 

Hemphill, Henry, collections made by 39 

Henderson & Brother, acknowledgment to 19 

Henry, Joseph, trustee of Tyndall fund 25 

Henshaw, Henry W., paper by 18 

Heyd, Dr. , co-operation of 70 

Hill, Hon. N. P., collection presented by 44 

expiration of term as Regent 2 

Historical publications of Switzerland 50 

relics, section of, in National Museum, 29, 31 

Hitchcock, Romyn, acting curator, National Museum 29, 30 

in charge of physical apparatus 31 

paper by 16 

Hobbs, Maj.T. J., disburses exchange appropriation 4 

Hof- und Staats-Kalender der Oesterreichisch-Uugarischen Monarchie 70 

Holden, Prof. Edward S., report on progress in astronomy 13, 17 

papers by 18 

Holland, official publications from 50 

Holmes, William H. , honorary curator, National Museum 29, 32 

paper by 18 

Hornaday, William T. , paper by 16 

House of Representatives exchanges 65 

Ho witt, A. W., Australian Group Relations 12 

paper by 12, 17 

Hungary, exchanges from 65 

official publications received from .')0 

Hunt, T. Sterry, report on progress in geology 17 

Hylobates concolor received in exchange 33 

I. 

Ibafiez, Adolfo, relative to exchanges between Uruguay and Chili 57 

Iceland, correspondents in 218 

volcanic eruptions in 495 

He Terceira, Azores, correspondents in 71 

Illinois, correspondents in -270 

exchanges for 67 

Illustrations in volume, list of viii 

India, correspondents in 84 

Indian Territory, correspondents in 278 

Indiana, correspondents in 275 

exchanges for 67 

Individual exchanges , 65 

Insecticide machinery, display of, in National Museum 38 

substances, display of, in National Museum 38 

Insects, department of, in National Museum 29, 37 

injurious to agriculture, display of, in National Museum 38 

Interior Department exchanges 64 

International exchanges, Congressional appropriation for 4, 19, 386 

disbursement of appropriation 4 

of Government publications 20 

Professor Baird's report on 18 

statistics of 18 

International exhibition at New Orleans, extra duties on account of 1, 6 

Introduction to the record of scientific progress 341 



INDEX. 985 

Page. 

Invertebrate fossils, departmeuts of, National Museum 29, 40 

Invertebrates, marine, department of. National Museum 29, 39 

Invertebrate paleontology, North American, account of progress in 13, 715 

Invertebrates, collection of fossil, in National Museum, bibliography of 28 

Investigation, chemical, of cinchona bark >, 30 

Investigations at Wood's Holl 46 

upon physical action of atropia, &c 30 

Iowa, correspondents in 278 

exchanges for 67 

Italy, correspondents in 218 

exchanges for 66 

official publications received from 50 

J. 

Japan, correspondents i& 86 

Japanese shells presented by Mr. Uchimura 36 

Java, correspondents in 87 

Jesup, Morris K., procured collection of building stones for American Mu- 
seum of Natural History in New York 22 

Joad collection of plants 40 

"John Bull" locomotive 32 

Johnson, Mr., collections received from 8 

Jones, Charles C, on a primitive storehouse of the Creek Indians 900 

Jones, Dr. W. H., collections received from , 9 

explorations by. 9 

Jordan, David S., papers by 16 

Journal of proceedings of the Regents xi 

Justice, Department of, exchanges 64 

K. 

Kamtsfhatka, ornithological exploration in 28 

Kansas, correspondents in 280 

exchanges for 67 

Katalog der Bibliothek des Deutchen Reichstags 70 

Kengla, L. A., paper by 12, 17 

Kentucky, correspondents in 282 

exchanges for 64 

Kiefer, George, collection received from ^. 9 

Klemming, G. E. , co-operation of 70 

Knowlton, Frank H., duties of « 41 

Knoeble, Mr., assisted Prof. Riley 38 

Kunhardt & Co., acknowledgment to 19 

Labrador, explorations in 7 

Lady Franklin Bay, botanical specimens from 7 

Land shells, American, manual of 28 

LaubmaBn, Dr., co-operation of 70 

Laviua, X., establishment of exchange office in Uruguay 54 

Laws relating to public printing 3 

Lea, Isaac , bibliography of the publications of 27 

Leach, M. L., paper by 14 

Leech, Daniel, corresponding clerk IX 



986 INDEX. 

Page. 

Lectures in Natioual Museum 28 

Lepidoptera seut by the Eev. C. H. A. Dall 37 

Letters relating to exchanges with Uruguay 52 

Libbey, William, jr., edited preparation of fourth edition of Guyot's tables.. 12, 13 

Liberia, correspondents in 72 

Library of Congress, exchanges 65 

of the National Museum 28 

of the Smithsonian Institution 21 , 49, 68 

List of astronomical Observatories 457 

domestic correspondents 259 

foreign correspondents 47,69 

List of the writings of Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles D. 

Walcott 28 

Lithology and physical geology department, National Museum 29, 42 

Lithology exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition ., 42 

Longitudes, Bureau des, Annuaire 70 

Louisiana, correspondents in 283 

exchanges for 67 

Louisville Exhibition, accessions from, for National Museum 26 

Lower California, explorations in 9 

Lucas, Frederic A., notes on the preparation of rough skeletons 28 

paper by 17 

M. 

Maclean, Rev. Dr. John, expiration of term as Eegeut • 2 

MacLeau, J. P., on ancient remains in Ohio 893 

Madeira, correspondents in 72 

Maine, correspondents in 284 

exchanges for , 67 

Mallery, Garrick, paper by 18 

Malta, correspondents in 72 

Mammals, department of. National Museum 29, 33 

Mammal exhibit for New Orleans exposition 33 

Manitoba, correspondents in 75 

Manual of American Land-shells 28 

Marcou,.Tohn Belknap, bibliography of fossil invertebrates 28 

report on progress in North American invertebrate i^aleontology 13, 715 

Marine invertebrates, department of. National Museum 29, 39 

Marsh, Prof. O. C, presented cast of bones 36 

Maryland, correspondents in 285 

exchanges for 67 

Mason, Prof, Otis T. , curator National Museum 29, 32 

account of progress in Anthropology 12, 14, 17 

the Guesde collection of antiquities 14 

Massachusetts, correspondents in 286 

exchanges for ■ 67 

Materia medica collection, National Museum 28 

section. National Museum 29 

Mathematical prize circular 331 

Matthews^ Washington, paper by 18 

Mauri titis, correspondents in ' 72 

McChesney, J. D. , disbursement of appropriation by 5 

McLean, John .)., collection received from 8 

exploration by 8 



INDEX. 987 

Page. 

McLean, J. P. , paper by 12, 17 

Medical Museum, Army, Congressional action regarding building of 336 

Meek, Fielding B.,list of the writings of 28 

Meek, Seth E., papers by .• 16 

Meetings in lecture hall of National Museum 28 

Mental overwork and premature disease among public and professional men. 13 

Merchants' Line of Steamers, acknowledgments to 19 

Merrill, George P. , acting curator, National Museum 29, 42 

duties of, at New Orleans exposition 42 

papers by 16 

suggestions made by 43 

Meso-cenozoic invertebrate fossils, department of, in National Museum 29, 40 

Metallurgy and economic geology, department of, National Museum 29, 43 

Metallurgy, exhibit at New Orleans Exposition 43 

Meteorology, account of progress in 12,14,17 

Mexican Aztec Calendar stone, cast of 33 

Mexico, collections from 27 

correspondents in 77, 78 

exchanges with 66 

explorations ., 9 

Mexico, Gulf of, explorations of 8 

Michigan, corresponden Ls in 292 

exchanges with , 67 

Mills, Charles K., M. D., lecture by 13 

Mineral exhibit of National Musen m at New Orleans exhibition 42 

resources of the United States represented in Museum collections 44 

Mineralogy, account of progi'ess in 14, 17, 689 

Minerals, exchange of 42 

department of, in National Museum 29,42 

Mines, views of, on exhibition 44 

Minnesota, correspondents in 293 

exchanges for 67 

Miscellaneous collections 10, 12, 13, 14 

Miscellaneous papers on anthropology 12, 14, 17 

Missaglia, Jos6 Luis, establishment of exchange ofiSce in Uruguay 54 

Mississippi, correspondents in 295 

Missouri, correspondents in 296 

exchanges with 67 

MoUusca, collections of 39 

Mollusks, department of. National Museum 29,36 

Monarch Line of Steamers, acknowledgment to 19 

Montana, correspondents in 298 

Morrill, Hon. J. S., appointed Regent 2 

Mounted birds, collection of, from Department of Agriculture 35 

Mozambique, correspondents in , 73 

Miiller, Dr. Johannes (Vereine und Gesellschaften Deutschlands) 70 

Muuoz y Espriella, acknowledgment to 19 

Murdock, John, papers by 16 

Murray, Ferris & Co., acknowledgement to ., 19 

... N. 

National Academy of Sciences, meetings of 28 

National Museum, Professor Baird's report on 26 

annual reports of 335 



988 INDEX. 

Page. 

National Museum, appropriation for xvi, 5 

arrangement of material in 26 

building, condition of 5 

bulletins of 14 

circulars by 16 

Congressional appropriation for 5, 335 

Congressional resolution relating to printing of annual report 335 

Department of antiquities 32 

arts and industries 29 

birds 34 

comparative anatomy 36 

ethnology 32 

exchanges 65 

lishes 35 

fossil and recent plants 40 

insects 37 

invertebrate fossils 40 

lithology and physical geology 42 

mammals 33 

marine invertebrates - 39 

metallurgy and economic geology 43 

minerals 42 

mollusks 36 

library ^ 28 

meetings in lecture hall 28 

new building required 7 

organization of departments J2 

proceedings of 15 

publications of 27 

Saturday lectures 28 

visitors 28 

Naval architecture, section of, National Museum 29 

Naval Observatory exchanges 65, 330 

Navigation, Bureau of, exchanges •. 64 

Nebraska, correspondents in 298 

exchanges with 67 

Necessity for new Museum building 7 

Necrology 24 

Nelson, E. W., collections made by 9 

explorations by 9 

papers by 16 

Netherlands- American. Steam Navigation Company, acknowledgment to 19 

Netherlands, correspondents in 229 

exchanges with 65, 66 

Newfoundland, correspondents in 76 

exchanges with 66 

free postage on exchanges 23 

New Hampshire, correspondents in 298 

exchanges with 67 

New Jersey, correspondents in 299 

exchanges with .' ...'. 67 

New Mexico, correspondents in 301 

exchanges with 9 



INDEX. 989 

• Page. 

New Orleans Exposition, accessions from, for National Museum 26 

exhibit of textiles at 31 

extra duties on account of 1,6 

influence of 27 

participation in, by Museum ^ 26 

New South Wales, correspondents in 88 

exchanges with 65,66 

New York, correspondents in 301 

exchanges with 67 

New York and Brazil Steamship Line, acknowledgment to 19 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, acknowledgment to 19 

New York Central Park Menagerie contributed zoological specimens 24,33 

New Zealand, correspondents in 90 

exchanges with 66 

Niblack, Ensign A. P., collections received from 8 

explorations by 8 

paper by, 16 

Nicaragua, correspondents in 77 

North America, correspondents in 74 

North American ethnology, Congressional appropriation for 336 

North American invertebrate paleontology, account of progress in 13,715 

North Carolina, correspondents in 308 

exchanges with 67 

North German Lloyd, acknowledgment to 19 

Norway, correspondents in 234 

exchanges with ■. 65, 66 

official publications received from 50 

Notes on the preparation of rough skeletons 28 

Nova Scotia, correspondents in 76 

Nutting, Charles C, paper by 12, 17 

O. 

Oaxaca, Mexico, collection received from 32 

Ober, Manuel Herrera y, letter of 53 

Observatories, astronomical, list of 457 

Oelrichs & Co., acknowledgment to 19 

Officers of the Institution ix 

Official publications received from European Governments 50 

Ohio, correspondents in " 309 

exchanges with 67 

remains in, by J. P. McLean „ 893 

Oregon, correspondents in 313 

exchanges with 67 

Ores, utilization of (illustrated) 43 

Ornithological exhibit at New Orleans Exposition 34 

exploration in the Commander Islands and in Kamtschatka 28 

Ornithologists' Union, American, meetings of 34 

P. 

Pacific Mail SteamshiiJ Company, acknowledgment to 20 

Palaeontology, North American invertebrate, account of progress in 13, 715 

Palaeozoic invertebrate fossils, department of, National Museum 29, 40 

P;iluier, Dr. Edward, collections by 932 

explorations by 9 



990 INDEX. 

Papa 

Panama Railroad Company, acknowledgment to '. 90 

Paraguay, correspondents in 83 

Parker, Hon. Peter, resignation of, as Eegent xi, xii 

Pasetti, Baron, letter to Hon. John M. Francis 62 

Passier, A.., co-operation of •- 70 

Patent Office exchanges 48,65 

Patton, Vickers & Co., acknowledgment to 19 

Pern, correspondents in 83 

exchanges with 66 

Pennsylvania, correspondents in 314 

exchanges with 67 

railroad Company, acknowledgment to 20 

Pentacrinus, collection of 39 

Philadelphia Zoological Garden, contributed specimens 24,33 

Philippine Islands, correspondents in 87 

exchanges for - ()6 

Philosophical Society of Washington, Bulletins of the 13 

Physical apparatus of the Smithsonian Institution 31 

geology, department of, National Museum 29,42 

Physics, account of xirogress in 12, 14, 17, .579 

Physiological actions of atropia 30 

of foods 30 

Pickford & Winkiield, collection i)resented by 44 

Pilling, J. C, paper by 18 

Pim, Forwood & Co., acknowledgment to 19 

Plants, check list of 41 

Department of, in National Museum 29,40 

Joad collection of 40 

Plasou, M. de, co-operation of 70 

Polynesia, correspondents in 91 

Porter, Noah , address at the unveiling of th e Henry statue 12 

Portugal, correspondents in 237 

exchanges with 66 

Post ?«or<e»^ examination of zoological specimens 24,36 

Pottery, American prehistoric, section , National Museum 32 

Pottery exhibit at Now Orleans Exposition 32 

Potthasfc, Dr., co-operation of 70 

Powell, Maj. J. W., director Bureau of Ethnology 45 

director United States Geological Survey .♦ 45 

]>aper by 17, 18 

Prehistoric fishing in Europe 11 

pottery, American, section, National Museum 29, 32 

Preservation of collections. Congressional appropriations for 335 

Price list of Smithsonian publications 947 

Price list of United States Government publications ^ 51 

Priestly, Dr. Joseph, apparatus of 31 

Prime, Temple, papers by 16 

Prince Edward Island, correspondents in 74 

Printing of annual reports, change of time 2 

Congressional resolution as to ir, 337, 338 

Proceedings of Biological Societv 13 



o 



of National Museum . . , 15, 27, 35 

Progress in development of Museum 27 

scientific, record of 12,13,14,341 



INDEX. 991 

Page. 

Prussia, exchanges with - 66 

Public Printer, exchanges from..* 65 

Publications of Austrian Ministry - 64 

of Bureau of Ethnology 17 

of Foreign Governments 21' 

of National Museum 27 

bulletins of 14,28 

circulars of 28 

edited by Dr. Bean 27,35 

proceedings 15,27,35 

special report upon the fisheries industries 28 

of Smithsonian Institution 10 

annual Reports 10, 17 

Contributions to Knowledge 10,11 

distribution of 10,259 

miscellaneous collections 10,12 

price list of 947 

rules for distribution of 259 

of United States Government, price list of 51 

used in preparing list of correspondents 70 

Pugli's Queensland Almanac 70 

Pygmy sperm-whale for Museum » 33 

Quarterly examination of finances 4 

Queensland Almanac 70 

Queensland, correspondents in..! 86 

R. 

Railroad track to' armory 5 

Rathbun, Richard, curator, Museum..^ 29,39 

papers by 15, 16 

Rau, Dr. C, curator. National Museum 29,32 

prehistoric fishing in Europe 11 

Receipts of exchanges 18,64 

of the Institution 4 

Record division of exchange service 48 

of scientific progress 12, 13, 14, 341 

Red Star Liue, thanks to 20 

Refraction of sound ; by William B. Taylor 13 

Regents of the Institution, Board of x 

Regents, Journal of proceedings of xi 

fiscal year adopted by 2 

annual meeting of xi 

annual meeting of, changed to 2d Wednesday in January xiv 

apiioiutnient of 2 

constitution of the Board of x 

expiration of terms of x,l,2 

Reichstags Bibliothek, Deutsche, Katalog 70 

Relics of General Washington 31 

Repairs required in Smithsonian building 5 

Report, annual, of the National Museum 28 

of Professor Baird 1 

of the Institution for 1883 12 

of the lostitutiou for 18B4 ,,, ,..., , 13 



992 INDEX. 

Page. 

Report ou Bureau of Ethnology 45 

on Fisli Commission -. 45 

ou Geological Survey 45 

printing of, change in time of 2 

Report, special, upon the fisheries of the United States .'. 28 

Reptiles and Batrachians of North America, report on 15 

Researches in entomology 38 

Resolution of Congress relative to printing annual report ii, 3 

Resolutions and Acts of Congress 335 

Revenue cutter "Corwiu," exploration hy 8 

Reward offered for spotted dolphin 33 

Rhees, William J., appointed acting secretary xiii 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk ix 

Rhizocriuus, collections of 39 

Rhode Island, correspondents in 320 

exchanges for 67 

Rhy t ina gigas, skeleton of 36 

Richter, M., co-operation of 70 

Ridgway, Rohert, curator, National Museum 29, 34 

papers by 15, 16 

Riggs, S. R., paper by •. 18 

Rigier, M.. co-operation of 70 

Riley, Prof. C. V. , honorary curator, National Museum 29, 37 

Rock, Prof. Miles, collections received from 9 

explorations by 9 

Rockwood, Prof. Charles G., jr., account of progress in vulcanology and seis- 
mology *. 14, 471 

Rothrock, J. T. , papers by 16 

Rough skeletons, preparation of, notes on 28 

Roumania, correspondents in 239 

Routine work of Institution 1 

Royco, C. C, paper by 18 

Rules for distribution of publications 259 

Russia, correspondents in 239 

exchanges with 65,66 

Ruth, John A., paper by 12, 17 

Ryder, .John A., papers by 16 

S. 

Sacrificial stone, cast of 33 

Samson, Rev. Dr. George H., specimens received from , 32 

San Salvador, correspondents in 77 

exchanges with 66 

Sandwich Islands, correspondents in 91 

Santos, M., establishment of exchange office in Uruguay 54,56 

Saturday lectures in National Museum 28 

Saunders, William, collection of American woods 27 

Saxony, exchanges with 50, 66 

Schoolcraft, Henry R., ou plan for American ethnological investigation 907 

Schott, A. L., check-list of plants , 41 

collections made by 41 

Schumacher &Co., thanks to 19 

Scientific departments of the National Museum - 29 

Scientific progress, record of 14, 17, 341 

societies, exchanges of 65 

writings of Joseph Henry 14 



INDEX. 993 

Page. 

Scotland, correspondents in 215 

Scudder, Newton Pratt, bibliography of the publications of Isaac Lea 27 

Sea-lilies, collections of 39 

Sea-urchins, collection of 39 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. {See Baird, S. F. ) ix 

Secretary, acting, appointment of xu, xni 

Secretary's report to the Regents to be printed by December 1 of each year . . xiv 
Secretary of War a member of the committee to select a site for new Army 

Medical Museum building 6 

Seismology, accouut of progress in 14,471 

Sellers, George Ercol, observations on stone-chipping 871 

Servia, correspondents in 249 

Shells, American land, manual of 28 

J apanese, contributed by Mr. Uchimura 36 

Shepard, James, on shell-heaps and mounds in Florida 902 

Sherman, General William T., expiration of term as Regent 324 

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W. , alcoholic specimens of insects sent by 37 

collections received from 9 

papers by 16 

Sidenbladh, M., co-operation of 70 

Signal Office exchanges 65 

Silk-culture display in Museum 38 

Skeleton of Rhy tiua gigas 36 

Skeletons, exchange of 36 

rough, preparation of 28 

Sknll of Atlantic whale received by Museum 33 

Skulls, exchange of, with Army Medical Museum 36 

Slade, Elisha, papers by 16 

Smith, Charles M., papers by 14 

Smith, Erminnie A., paper by 18 

Smith, Rosa, papers by 16 

Snjith, Sydney I., papers by 16 

Suiithson fund, condition of 4 

Smithsonian building, condition of 5 

lire-proofing of. Congressional appropriation for 336 

Smithsonian establishment, members of 14 

Smithsonian exchanges 47 

Smithsonian Institution, Congressional appropriation for 336 

Professor Baird's report 1 

Smithsonian, library 68 

Smithsonian publications, price-list of 947 

Smithsonian Reports for 1884 and 1885, Congressional resolution relating to 

printing of 337, 338 

Societies meeting in the lecture hall of the Museum 28 

Society of Naturalists of North America, meetings of 28 

South America, correspondents in 80 

exchanges with 9 

South Carolina, corresi^ondents in 320 

exchanges with 67 

Spaiu, correspondents in 249 

exchanges with 67 

Specimens, alcoholic, building for, required 7 

contributed by menageries 24, 33 

from Lady Franklin Bay 7 

from Dr. Schufeldt 37 

H. Mis 15 63 



994 INDEX. 

Page. 

Sperm-whale, pygmy, received in Museum 33 

Spofford, H. W., appointed assistant librarian in Museum library 28 

Spotted dolphin, reward for capture of 33 

Steam transportation section, National Museum 31 

Steamer "Albatross," exploration by 8,45,46 

"Carlisle P. Patterson," exploration by 8 

" Corwin," exploratioa by 8 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C, collection received from 39 

services of 36 

Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard,. assistant curator, National Museum 34 

ornithological explorations in the Commander Islands and Kamtschatka. . . 28 

papers by 16 

skeleton of Rhytina gigas obtained by 36 

Stevenson, James, papers by 18 

specimens received from 32 

Stone-chipping, observations on, by George E. Sellers 871 

Stoney, Lieut. George M., collections received from 39 

explorations in Alaska 8 

Stuers, M. de, co-operation of 70 

T. 

Tables, meteorological and physical, by Dr. Arnold Guyot, edited by William 

Libbey,jr 12 

Tasmanian Almanac 70 

Tasmania, correspondents in 89 

Taylor, Dr. F. W. , collections received from 9 

Taylor, William B., the refraction of sound 13 

Taylor, William J., paper by 12, 17 

Technical botanical work of the department of plants 41 

Telephone service. Congressional appropriation for 335 

Temporary workshop, condition and purpose of 6 

Tennessee, correspondents in 321 

exchanges for 67 

Teoyoauiiqui, cast of 33 

Texas, correspondents in 323 

exchanges for 67 

Textile collection sent to the New Orleans Exposition 31 

industry section of the National Museum 29,30 

Thomas, Cyrus, papers by 16 

Toner lectures ; 13 

Townsend, Charles H., collections received from 8,9^ 

explorations by 8,9 

Transmissions of exchanges 19 

Transportation companies granting free freight 19 

Treasury Department exchanges 65 

Trinidad, correspoTidents in 79 

exchanges for 66 

True, Frederick W., curator. Museum 29, 36 

honorar J' curator. Museum 29. 36 

librarian. Museum 26 

papers by 16- 

Trustees of Tyndall fund 25,26- 

Turkey, correspondents in 257 

exchanges for 67 



INDEX. 995 

Page. 

Turk's Islands, correspondents in 79 

I'nrner, Lucien M., collections from 8 

explorations by 8 

Tyndall fund, origin and condition of 24 

Tyndale, General Hector, trustee Tyndall fund 25 

U. 

Uchimura, Mr., contributed Japanese shells 36 

Ungarn, Das Unterrichts wesen in 70 

Uranium, index to the literature of, by H. Carrington Bolton 915 

Uruguay, correspondents in 83 

exchanges with 21,52,55,56 

Utah, correspondents in 325 

Utiliaatiou of ores illustrated 43 

V. 

Vacancies in the Board of Regents ..-. 2 

Venezuela, correspondents in 83 

Vermont, correspondents in 325 

exchanges for 67 

Verrill, Prof. A. E. , transfer of collection to Museum 39 

Victoria, correspondents in - 89 

exchanges for 66 

Virginia, correspondents in 326 

exchanges for 67 

Visit to Europe on exchange business 21, 47, 49 

Visitors to National Museum 28 

Volger, Dr., co-operation of 70 

Vouchers, critical examination of 5 

Vreeland, Lieut. Charles E., and Dr. J. F. Bransford, Antiquities of Pantaleou, 

Guatemala 14 

Volcanic eruptions in Iceland, report on 495 

Vnlcanology, account of, progress in 14,471 

W. 

Waite, Chief Justice, address at the unveiling of the Henry statue 12 

Walcott, Charles D., honorary curator, Museum 29,40 

list of writings of - 28 

Walker, S. T., paper by 12,17 

War Department, Congressional appropriation for freight on exchanges 336 

exchanges 65 

Ward, Prof. Lester F. , honorary curator. National Museum 29, 40 

suggestions made by 40 

Warren and Stearns, specimen of spotted dolphin furnished by 33 

Washington, George, relics of 31 

Washington Territory, correspondents in 327 

exchanges for 67 

explorations in 8 

Watkins, J. E., honorary curator, National Museum 31 

W^elling, Dr. James C, appointed Regent 2 

Welling, Dr. J. C . , elected on executive committee xii 

Wesley, William, co-operation of 70 

West Australia, correspondents in 9^ 



996 INDEX. 

Page. 

West Indies, correspoudeuts in 78 

West Virginia, correspondents in 328 

Whale received in Museum 33 

White, Dr. Charles A., honorary curator, Museum 20, 40 

check-list of writings of 28 

White Cross Line, acknowledgment to 20 

Whittlesey, Charles, on copper implements from Wisconsin 81)2 

Wickersham, James, paper by 12-17 

WiUiams, Mark, on ancient earth- works in China 907 

Wilson, Thomas, collections received from ..„ 9 

explorations by 9 

Wilson and Asmus, acknowledgment to 20 

Wiltheiss, E. T., paper by 14 

Winlock, William C, report of progress in astronomy 343 

Winslow, Lieut. Francis, paper by 15 

Wisconsin, correspondents in 328 

exchanges for 67 

Woods, American, collection of 27 

Wood's Holl, Mass., Fish Commission investigation at 46 

Wools, collection of, received 30 

Woolfe, Henry D., collections received from 8 

explorations by 8 

Work done by U. S. Fish Commission 45 

of the Museum 27 

Workshops, condition and purposes of 6 

Wright, Peter, & Sons, acknowledgment to 20 

Writings of Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles D. Walcott, list 

of 28 

Wiirtemberg, exchanges with 50,67 

Wyoming Territory, correspondents in '. 330 

exchanges for 67 

Y. 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C, honorary curator, National Museum 29 

paper by 18 

Yeates, William S., services of 42 

Youmans, Dr. E. L., trustee of Tyndall fund 25 

Yucatan, birds from 35 

casts of antiquities from 32 

Z. 

• 

Zeledon, J. C, explorations and collections .- 9, 32 

Zoological Gardens at Philadelphia contributed zoological specimens 24, 33 

Zoological specimens contributed by menageries - 24, 33 

Zoology, account of progress in 12,14,17,763 



STITyTIONLIBRAP 



3 9088 00944 9158 



