L-- 



29th Congress, [SENATE.] F 211 1 






SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



PiEPOKT 

FROM 

THE BOAPtD OF EE&EITS, 

SUBMITTED TO CONGRESS, 

0/ the operations, expejiditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 



March 3, 1847. 

Read, and ordered to be printed. 



To the Se?iate and House of Representatives of the United States: 

In obedience to the act of Congress " to establish the Smithsonian. 
Institution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge .among men," 
the Board of Regents submit to Congress a report of the "operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the institution." 

On the day prescribed by the act creating the institution, the Regents 
assembled in the city of Washington, and proceeded to the execution of 
the duties assigned to them. For an account of their organization, aad 
the measures thereafter adopted by the Board of Regents to give effect to 
the provisions of the act of their creation, and to the intentions of the 
Testator, they submit the following, (being all the material portions of the 
journal of their proceedings,) as the best and fullest exposition of their 
transactions, and of the present condition of the institution. 

• G. M. DALLAS, Chancellor, 

Joseph Henry, Secretary. 



[211] 2 



Journal of proceedings of the regents of lite Smithsoruan liistitvtioyi. 

At a meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
held at the city of Washington, on Monday, the 7th day of September, 
anno Domini 1846, present — 

Hon. George M. Dahas, Vice President of the United States j 

Hon. R. B. Taney, Chief Justice ; 

Hon. Wm. W. Seaton, Mayor of the city of Washington ; 

Hon. George Evans, Senator; 

Hon. Isaac S. Pennybacker, Senator ; 

Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Representative ; 

Hon. Wm. J. Hongh, Representative; 

Hon. Henry W. Hilliard, Representative ; 

Hon. Rufus Choate, of Mass., Citizen at large; 

Gideon Hawley, LLD., of New York, Citizen at large ; 

Hon. Richard Rush, of Penn., Citizen at large ; 

Alexander Dallas Bache, LLD., National Institute; 

Col. Joseph G Totten, National Institute. 

For the purpose of a preliminary organization of said board, Hon. George 
M. Dallas was appointed President, and Hon. Wm. J. Plough Secretary. 
On motion, it was 

Resolved^ That the President appoint a suitable person doorkeeper, 
who shall also act as messenger of said board during the present session, 

Wherenpon, the President appointed William JVlcPeak doorkeeper and 
messenger. 

On motion, it was 

Resolved^ That the Rules and Orders of the Senate of the United States 
be adopted as the Rules and Orders for the government of this board, until 
others shall be adopted in their stead. 
On motion, it was 

Resolved^ That the Secretary of this institution, hereafter to be elected, 
procure from the Department of State a copy of the joint resolution of 
the two houses of Congress by which a portion of the regents of this 
institution were appointed ; and that he also procure from the Secretary 
of the Senate and horn the Clerk of the Bouse of Representatives, respect- 
ively, a certificate of the appointment of the regents from their respective 
houses, and file the same in the office of the Secretary of said institution. 
On motion, it was 

Resolved^ That ail further action of this board in relation to tlie elec- 
tion of officers be postponed until to-morrow. 

On motion, the board adjourned to to-morrow. 

TUESDAY, September S, 1816. 

'Y'xQ Board of Regents met pursuant to adjournment. 

Present, the same regents named in yesterday's proceedings, ^xcept 
Mr. Totten, who is absent in consequence of sickness. 

Oil motion, the board then proceeded to the election of a Chancellor, 
by ballot; and, upon counting the ballots, it appeared that Hon. George 
M. Dallas was unanimously elected. 



B [211] 

On motion, the board then proceeded to elect a member thereof Sec- 
retary of said Board of Regents and of the Smithsonian Institution; and, 
upon counting the ballots, it appeared that William J, Hough was 
elected. 

On motion, it was 
Resolved, That the Secretary do now prepare six ballots, on two of 
which the word " two" shall be written, on two others the word "four," 
and on the remaining two the word " six ;" and that each of the regents ap- 
pointed by joint resolution of Congress of the J 0th Aujrust, 1846, draw 
one of said ballots ; and the regents who draw the ballots with the word 
" two" thereon shall hold their offices of regents for the term of two years ; 
the regents who draw the ballots with the word " four" thereon shall 
hold t^eir offices for the term of four years ; and the regents who draw 
the ballots with the word " six" thereon shall hold their office^ lor the 
term of six years, in conformity with the act to establish the " Smith- 
sonian Institution for the increase and difFasion of knowledge among 
men," approved August 10,1846. 
On motion, it was 
Resolved, That the Chancellor draw the ballot for any regent who is 
not present. 

■^rhe ballots were prepared and drawti,-as provided in the foregoing 
resolutions, and resulted as follows : 

Mr. Choate drew for two years ; 
Mr. Hawiey drew for two years ; 
Mr. Rush drew for four years ; 
Mr. Totteri drew for four years ; 
Mr. Bache drew for six years ; 
Mr. Preston drew for six years. 
The board then proceeded to the election of an Executive Committee, 
By ballot; and, upon counting the ballots, it appeared that Mr. Ovv^en, 
Mr. Seaton, and Mr. Totten were elected. 
It was then 
Resolved, That William W. Seaton be, and he is hereby, appointed 
chairman of said Executive Committee. 
It was farther 
Resolved, That the chairman of the Executive Committee be the dis- 
bursing officer, for the payment of the expenses of the regents, and other 
contingent and incidental expenses of the sessions of the board, and be 
authorized to receive from the proper officer of the Treasury Department 
whatever sura may be certified by the Chancellor and Secretary to ba 
necessary for that purpose. 
On motion, it was 
Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to employ a recording cierk, 
as an assistant in the discharge of his duties, whose compensation shall 
be determined by the Executive Committee. 

[In compliance with the seventh section of the act of Congress estab- 
lishing the Smithsonian Institution, and with the toregoing resolution, 
the Secretary appointed Benjamin B. French, esq., Assistant Secretary 
and Recording Clerk of the institution.] * 

On motion, it was 
Mesolved, That the Secretary be authorized to procure a book, in which 
the proceedings of the board shall be recorded ; and a description of the 



[■ 211 ] 4 

site selected by the board, set out by metes and bounds, shall be made 
and si2;ned by the regents present, and shall have also appended the as- 
sent of the President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
the Secrf^tary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Commissioner 
of the Patent Office, to the same. And the Secretary shall also record in 
the same the will of James Smithson ; the original act of Congress ac- 
cepting the trust ; the law establishing the existing institution ;,the reso- 
lution of Congress appointing! regents of the Smithsonian Institution ; 
also, the certificates of the Secretary of the Senate and of the Clerk of the 
House of Representatives, respectively, as to the regents appointed from 
their respective houses. 
On motion. 

Resolved^ That a committee of three be appointed by the Chancellor, 
from the members of the board, to digest a plan to carry out the f5rovis- 
ions of the act to establish the Smithsonian Institution, and that they 
report the same to the next meeting of the board. 

Whereupon, the Chancellor appointed Mr. Owen, Mr. Hilliard, and 
Mr. Bache said committee. 

The following preamble and resolution were offered and agreed to : 

Whereas the act to establish the Smithsonian Institution prescribes an 
appropriation, not exceeding an average of twenty-five thousand dollars 
annually, for the gradual formation of a library, composed of valuable 
hooks pertaining to all departments of human knowledge: Therefore, 

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed, to prepare a report 
upon the subject of the formation of such a library, indicating its gene- 
ral character and the modes of proceeding to accumulate it, and to pre- 
sent such report at the next regular meeting of the board. 

Whereupon, the Chancellor appointed Mr. Choate, Mr. Hawley, and 
Mr. Rush said committee. 

Adjourned to 10 o'clock to-morrow. 

WEDNESDAY, September 9, 1S46. 

The board met pursuant to adjournment. 

Present, the same regents as yesterday. 

Mr. Owen presented to the board, in behalf of David D. Owen, M. D., 
of Indiana, a plan, drawings, and specifications of a building for said in- 
stitution. 

Mr. Owen also presented a plan and drawings for the same from Mr, 
Robert Mills, architect, of Washington. 
On motion, 

Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution and the Executive Committee of the Board of Regents be, and 
they are hereby, authorized and instructed to take such measures as may 
be deemed by them most proper to obtain plans for the erection of build- 
ings, fulfilling all the conditions in reference to them contained in the 
law organizing this institution, and that said committee report such plan 
as they may approve to this board, at its next meeting: and further, that 
said committee specially report in regard to the best material for said 
buildings, and to the best modes of warming, lighting, and ventilating 
the same, with estimates of the cost when constructed of different mate- 



5 [211] 

rials ; aiid that they further report in regard to such other matters as they 
may consider important in the premises. . 
On motion, it was 

Resolved, That the thanks of this board be offered to David Dale Ovv- 
€n, M. D., of Indiana, for the plans of buildings for the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, presented on his behalf; and that said plans, with the corres- 
pondence explanatory of the same, and any other plans which may be 
presented to this board, be referred to the committee just named. 
On motion, it was 

Resolved, That the committee appointed to report at the next session 
are authorized to purchase such works, per account of the board, on ar- 
chitecture, bibliography, and • the like, as they may deem necessary to 
enable them to perform the duties of their appointment ; to visit any 
structures and collections in this country ; and also to avail themselves 
of the suggestions of other skilful persons, and to offer therefor, if neces- 
sary, such remuneration as the regents may choose subsequently to make. 
On motion, it was 

Resolved, That the regular meetings of the Board of Regents shall be 
on the second Wednesday of December and the third Wednesday of 
February in each year; and on the first Wednesday of June in each al- 
ternate year, commencing with the first Wednesday of June in the year 
1S4S. 

On motion, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Rush be a committee to ascertain, thiough the so- 
licitors formerly employed by him on behalf of the United States in the 
suit to obtain the Smithsonian bequest, or otherwise, whether Madam De 
la Batut still survives; and if not, what steps are necessary to be taken 
to obtain the fund reverting to the United States at her death ; being a 
portion of the original property of James Smithson retained by the En- 
glish court of chancery, in order to furnish, in the shape of interest, an 
annuity to the said Madam De la Batut. And further, in case the said 
Madam De la Batut survives, to adopt measures by which her decease 
may be communicated to the board whenever that event may occur. And 
that Mr. Rush report to the Executive Committee the legal charge thus 
incurred, which the said committee is hereby authorized to pay. 
On motion, it was 

Resolved, That the stibject of the selection of a site be referred to the 
committee on the buildings constituted at this meeting, to report at an 
adjourned meeting of this board. 
On motion, it was 

Resolved, That when this board adjourn, it adjourn to meet at the Vice 
President's room, in the Capitol, on the last Monday of November next, 
at 12 o'clock, noon. 

On motion, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Choate and Mr. Pennybacker be added to the 
committee appointed yesterday to digest a plan to carry out the provisions 
of the act establishing the Smithsonian Institution. 
It was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested, without unnecessary delay, 
to collect, on behalf , of the institution, all the documents, Congressional 
and others, connected with the history of the Smithsonian bequest, and 



[211] 6 

of its legislation, and cause thein to be substantially bound, as a com- 
mencement of its library. 

William Archer, architect, of the city of Washington, presented to the 
board a plan and drawings for a buildinij for the institution, together with 
specifications and estimates of cost, &c. ; which were referred to the 
Gommittee on Buildings. 

And then the board adjourned uniil the last Monday in November next. 

MONDAY, November 30, 1846. 

Agreeably to their adjournment on the 9th day of September last, a 
mBetmg of the regents of the Smithsonian Institution was held at the 
room of the Vice President of the United States, in the Capitol. 

George M. Dallas, the Chancellor, (and one of the regents^) and the 
following regents, appeared, viz: William W. Seaton, Isaac S. Penny- 
backer, Sidney Breese, Robert Dale Owen, William J. Hough, Henry W. 
Hilliard, Pachard Rush, Gideon Hawley, Alexander Dallas Bache, and 
Joseph G. Totten. 

Messrs. Hough, Seaton, Totten, Rush, and the Chancellor, each pre- 
sented sundry letters, recommendations, (fee, relative to applications for 
the office of secretary of the institution ; which were severally placed 
upon file for future consideration. 

The Chancellor, from the committee appointed at the last session of 
the Board of Regents " to obtain plans for the erection of buildings," to 
consider as to materials, the warming and lighting the buildings, &c., 
made the following report, accompanied by sundry letters from Mr. David 
Dale Owen and Professors Silliman and Fouder, in relation to the selec- 
tion of material for the erection of the institution building. 

The undersigned, a committee appointed by the board at its session on 
the 9th of September last, respec^tfully report: 

In order " to obtain plans for the erection of buildings," to form some 
judgment '^in regard to the best material for said buildings," and to as- 
certain " the best modes of warming, lighting, aud ventilating the same." 
the committee took the following measures. 

. Wilh a view to give, as extensively and rapidly as possible, notice to 
the architects of the country of the objects and duties of the committee, 
the resolution by which they were constituted was published in the 
newspapers of this city on the 22d day of Septetriber, 1S46. 

The shortness of time, however, rendering it probable that no satisfac- 
tory communications would be received froin architects before the present 
meeting of the hoard, the committee entered upon a tour of personal in- 
spection, hoping to accumulate information that might guide the board 
in the choice of a plan for building; and Mr. Owen, Mr. Hough, and 
Col. Totten visited our principal cities, examined many if not ail of their 
moat noted structures, had conferences with several of their architects 
eminent for science and success, collected specimens of the best stone 
material, and obtained data upon which to '-estimate the cost of the 
contemplated building when constructed of different m.aterials." 

Af, the city of Philaddphia^ the Girard College, the Eastern Peniten- 
tiary, the House of Refuge, the hall of the Mercantile Library Company, 
the Exchange, the Custom-house, (formerly the Bank of the United 
States,) and the Athenasum, now being built, were visited. ■ 



7 [211] 

Mr. Strickland and Mr. Walter were called upon, but were unfortu- 
nately absent from the city. Mr. Haviland was also called upon ; but 
not being seen, all necessary information was sent to him through his 
son. Mr. Notman was seen and repeatedly conversed with. 

At the cAtif of Trenton^ the State Lunatic Asylum, and the old but ren- 
ovated State-house, were visited. 

In examining these edifices, advantage was derived from the constant 
presence and intelligent remarks of Mr. Notman. 

At the city of Nbw York, Grace Church, Calvary Church, the Church 
of the Puritans, the Tombs, Trinity Church, the University, Dr. Potts's 
Church, the Muhlenburg Church, Mr. Bellows's Church, the Church of 
the Pilgrims, and several other churches, were visited. Much valuable 
information was obtained at consultations Vx^ith Mr. Renwick, accompa- 
nied by his father, Professor Renwick ; Mr. Upjohn, Mr. Warren, Mr. 
Thompson, Mr. Mountain, Mr. Wells, Mr. Arnot, and Mr. Jewett. Mr. 
Hough took occasion to visit also the marble quarry at Hastings, and sev- 
eral other quarries in the vicinity of New York. 

At the city of Boston, the Masonic Temple, the Howard Street Athe- 
nsum, the new Custom-housp, the Merchants' Exchange, the new The- 
atre, and pther structures, were visited. Mr. Rogers and Mr. Young 
were the architects conferred with. 

At the city of Cincinnati, interviews v/ere had with Mr. Daniels and 
Mr. Walter. 

During the visits thus briefly sketched, a series of letters were written 
by Mr. Owen to Mr. Seaton, embodying the fruits of each day's exertion, 
and communicating very many details of great interest. These are best 
submitted to the board in their original form : the committee therefore 
annex them to this report. 

Valuable letters have been received from David Dale Owen, Professor 
Silliman, and Professor Fowler, in relation specially to the comparative 
mei;its of marble and sandstone : these also are annexed, for the inspec- 
tion of the board. 

In order still farther to assist the judgment of the board on the impor- 
tant point of the choice of material for the building, the committee have 
caused several sample walls of different stone to^be thrown up for their 
examination. 

It will be perceived, by the corrrespondence of Mr. Owen, that the ar- 
chitects with whom he conferred are required to transmit their several 
plans to the board by the 2.5th of December next. Until they are re- 
ceived, no definite choice can be made ; and as '■'■the best tnaterial^^ and 
" the best modes of iicr/iting- and vcntilatina^,^^ together with " estimates 
of the cost" could, iifthe opinion of the committee, only be safely deter- 
mined by reference to the plan finally adopted, they have abstained from 
.treating those points farther than they are touched upon in the annexed 
correspondence. 

" The selection of a site " is a subject also referred to this committee ; 
but as it was made a matter of personal examination by the v/hole board 
at their last meeting, the committee respectlully confine themselves to re- 
porting the following resolution : 

Resolved, That the regents of the Smithsonian Institution do select 
and adopt as the site for their buildings so much of the Mall, in the city 
of Washington, as lies between Seventh street and the river Potomac, if 



[211] 8 

the consent of the persons named in the fourth section of the act to es- 
tabUsh the Smithsonian Institution for the increase and diffusion of know- 
ledge among men be obtained thereto; and that upon such consent being 
obtained indue form, the Secretary is liereby instructed to cause the said 
ground so selected to be set out by proper metes and bounds. 
All which is submitted by 

G, M. DALLAS, Chairman. 

WM. J. HOUGH. 

ROBERT DALE OWEN. 

JOS. G. TOTTEN. 

W. W. SEATON. 
Washington, November 30, 1846. 

It remains to state that the committee of five appointed to " obtain 
plans for the erection of buildings," &c., unanimously selected, out of 
thirteen that were submitted to them by some of the principal architects 
throughout the country, two by Mr. James Renwick, jr., of New York 
city, the architect of Grace Church, the Church of the Puritans, Calvary 
Church, and other structures in and near New York ; and they recom- 
mended to the board for adoption one of these, being a design in the later 
Norman, or, as it may with more strict propriety be called, the Lombard 
style, as it prevailed in Germany, Normandy, and in southern Europe, in 
the twelfth century. The design comprises a centre building, with two 
wings, connected with the main building by low ranges and a cloister. 
The entire front is 421 feet, and the extreme depth in the centre, inclu- 
ding the carriage porch, 153 feet. The height of the principal tower is 
145 feet, and that of the main building, to the summit of the battlement, 
58 feet. The design includes all the accommodations demanded by the 
charter, to wit: a museum, 200 feet by 50 ; a library, 90 feet by 50; a 
gallery of art, in the form of a T, 125 feet long; two lecture rooms, one 
of which is capable of containing from 800 to 1,000 persons, and the 
other is connected with the chemical laboratory; a committee roonr for 
the Board of Regents ; a Secretary's room ; a room for the effects of Mr. 
Smithson ; a Janitor's room,&.c. 

The contracts are not yet made; but the building committee hope to 
complete the structure, and to fit up and furnish the same, not only with- 
out encroachment on the capital of the institution, which by the act or- 
ganizing the institution is expressly forbidden, but so as to leave a con- 
siderable portion of the amount specially set apart by that act for build- 
ing unexpended. 

The material for the exterior of the building has not yet been selected. 
The board has authorized the publication, by the building committee, of 
a small volume, which will give to the public the design of the building, 
and all important particulars regarding materials, &c. 

The resolution accompanying the report was taken up for considera-' 
tion ; and pending the question on the adoption thereof, 

The board adjourned until to morrow, at 12 o'clock, meridian. 

TUESDAY, December 1, 1846. 

Mr. Evans, one of the regents, appeared. 

The Chancellor laid before the board the following letter from Chief 
Justice Taney, a regent of the institution : 



9 [ 211 ] 

Baltimore, November 28, 1846. 
Dear Sir : I regret that it will not be in my power to attend the 
meeting of the regents of the Smithsonian Institution on Monday next. 
The circuit court for the district of Maryland has been in session since 
the beginning of this month, and must continue in session all of next 
week, in order to dispose of the business before it. Be good enough to 
mention to the board the cause of my absence, and believe me to be, 
with great respect, your obedient servant, 

R. B. TANEY; 
George M. Dallas, 

Vice President of the United States, Washington. 

Mr. Breese presented sundry letters and recommendations relative to 
applications for office, agencies for the purchase of books, &c., which 
were placed on file for- future consideration. . 

Mr. Rush, from the committee appointed to ascertain whether Madam 
De la Batut still survives, and if not, what steps are necessary to obtain 
the remainder of the Smithsonian fund reverting to the United States 
at her death, and if she is still living, what steps are necessary to obtain 
the fund at her death, made a report thereon in part, stating that he had 
written to Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore, and Fladgate, solicitors, residing in. 
London, making the proper inquiries, but had received no answer. 

Mr. Owen, from the Committee on the Organization of the Institution, 
made a report, accompanied by a series of resolutions, which were read. 

The board proceeded to the consideration of the resolution pending 
yesterday when the board adjourned. 

Mr. Seaton proposed that the same be amended, by inserting after the 
word " Potomac^' the following : 

" Intending- to authorize the erection of a tnonument to George Wash- 
ington^ by the Washington Monument Association, on a part of the said 
site, which ties between Fourteenth street and the river." 

Mr. Evans moved that the said amendment be amended by substitu- 
ting therefor the following : " subject to the power of Congress to grant 
any portion of the same west of Fourteenth street to the Washington 
Monument Society, for the purpose of erecting a monument thereon ;" 
which Mr. Seaton accepted. 

The amendment was then agreed to, and the resolution, as amended, 
was agreed to. 

And so it was 

Resolved, That the regents of the Smithsonian Institution do select 
and adopt, as the site for their buildings, so much of the Mall, in the 
city of Washington, as lies between Seventh street and the river Potomac, 
subject to the power of Congress to grant any portion of the same west 
of Fourteenth street to the Washington Monument Society, for the pur- 
pose of erecting a monument thereon, if the consent of the persons 
named in the fourth section of the act to establish the Smithsonian In- 
stitution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men be ob- 
tained thereto ; and that, upon such consent being obtained in due form, 
the Secretary is hereby instructed to cause the said ground so selected to 
be set out by proper metes and bounds. 
On motion of Mr. Evans, 

Ordered, That the committee on the selection of a site be instructed 



[211] 10 

to wait upon the President of the United States, and lay before him a 
certified copy of said resolution ; and that the Secretary communicate a 
copy of the same to each of the officers mentioned in the act of Congress 
establishing ihe institution. 

On motion of Mr. Evans, 

Ordered^ That tlie Chancellor and each chairman of a committee be a 
committee to prepare " a report of the operations, expenditures, and con- 
dition of the institution,-" for submission to Congress, agreeably to the 
third section of the act establishing the same. 

The board adjourned until to-morrow, at 12 o'clock, meridian. 

WEDNESDAY, December 2, 1S46. 

Mr. Choate, one of the regents, appeared. 

A motion was made by Mr. Breese to reconsider the vote by which the 
board yesterday adopted the resolution selecting and adopting a site for 
their buildings. 

After debate, 

The motion of Mr. Breese was postponed until to-morrow. 

The resolutions reported yesterday by Mr. Owen, from the Committee 
on Organization, came up in order for consideration. 

At the suggestion of Mr. Choate that he wished to examine the report 
accompanying them. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, they were further postponed until to-morrow. 

Mr. Breese laid on the table the following resolution : 

Resolved, That at one o'clock, p. m., to morrow, the board will proceed 
to the election of a secretary of the institution. 

The board adjourned until to-morrow, at 12 o'clock, meridian. 

THURSDAY, December 3, 1S46. 

Mr. Choate, from the committee appointed at the meeting of the regents' 
in September in relation to the formation of a library, made a report, 
which was read and laid on the table. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, the resolutions accompanying the report made 
by him from the Committee on Organization were taken up for conside-/ 
ration. 

Mr. Owen moved that the board proceed to consider the resolution rela- 
tive to the qualifications of secretary, and numbered 13 ; 

Which motion was agreed to. 

The said resolution was then read, as follows : 

[No. 13 ] Resolved, That it is essential, for the advancement of the 
proper interests of the trust, that the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution be a man possessing weight of character, and a high grade of 
talent ; and that it is further desirable that he possess eminent scientific 
and general acquirements ; that he be a man capable of advancing science 
and promoting letters by original research and effort, well qualified to act 
as a respected channel of communication between the institution and 
scientific and literary individuals and societies in this and foreign coun- 
tries ; and, in a word, a man worthy to represent before the world of 
science and of letters the institution over which this board presides. 



11 ' [211] 

And the question being put on agreeing to the same, 

It \vas decided in the affirmative. 

The remainder of the resolutions were then postponed for the present. 
On motion of Mr. Owen, 

The board then proceeded to elect a secretary by ballot, when it ap- 
peared that there* were twelve votes cast, of which Professor Joseph 
Henry, of Princeton, New Jersey, had a majority, and was declared by 
the Chancellor duly elected Secretary of the insritotion. 

The board proceeded to the consideration of the motion made by Mr. 
Breese yesterday, that. the vote by. which the resolution adopting a site 
for the buildings of the institution be reconsidered. 

And the question being put. Will the board reconsider the said vote? 

It was decided in the negative. 

So the said resolution stands adopted. 

The board adjourned until 10 o'clock, a. m., to-morrow. 

FRIDAY, December 4, 1S46. 

The board proceeded to the consideration of the resolutions accompa- 
nying the report of the Committee on Organization ; when 

The following of the said resolutions (numbered as they were report- 
ed) were read and agreed to, viz : 

[No. 3.] Resolved, That the Secretaries of State, of the Treasury, of 
War, and of the Navy of the United States, be respectfully invited to 
furnish to consuls and other public officers, in this and foreign countries, 
under their respective departments, such suggestions as they may deem 
proper in regard to the procurement, as opportunity offers, of additions to 
the museum of the institution, especially to its ethnological department; 
that three hundred copies of this repDrt, when printed, be placed at the 
disposal of each of the above named Secretaries, as an explanation to these 
public functionaries of the views of the institution in regard to a museum; 
and that five hundred dollars bo, and the samiC is hereby, appropriated, 
out of the accruing interests, to pay transportation or other expenses con- 
nected with the transmission from foreign parts to 'Washington of any 
collections thus made ; and to such contributions, when placed in the 
museum, the name of the~ officer obtaining and forwarding the same 
shall in all cases be appended. 

[No. 4.] Resolved, That the Secretary of War be respectfully invited 
to furnish to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs such suggestions as he 
may deem proper regarding the procurement from the Indian country of 
collections for the njuseum of the Smithsonian Institution, illustrating 
the natural history of the country, and more especially the physical his- 
torj?", manners and customs, of the various tribes of aborigines on the 
North American continent; tl at one hundred copies of this report, when 
printed, be placed at his disposal, as a means- of informing the various 
Indian agents of the special character of the collections desired ; and that 
the sum of five hundred dollars be, and the same is hereby, annually ap- 
propriated, out of the accruing interests of the Smithsonian Institution, 
for the procurement and transportation of such Indian collections ; and, 
when placed in the museum, there shall be appended to each the name of 
the agent through whom the same may be procured. 

[No. 5.j Resoloed, That the public generally be invited to furnish con-- 



[2111 * 12 

tributions to the museum of the Smithsonian Institution; and that all 
such contributions, when considered worthy of a place, shall be labelled 
with the name of the donor. 

[No. 6.] Resolved^ That ten copies of the report accompanying these 
resolutions be furnished to each member of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and each member be respectfully requested to transmit 
these to newspapers and to individuals, in his district or elsewhere, who 
may be likely to take an interest in the proceedings of the institution. 

[No. 12.] Resolved^ That for the year eighteen hundred and forty-seven 
the sum of one thousand dollars be, and the same is hereby, appropriated 
for laying out the grounds of the institution, and for the purchase, trans- 
plantation, and temporary fencing of the trees therein; to be expended 
under the direction of the Executive Committee. 

[No. 15.] Resolved, That of this report, in such form as it may be 
ultimately adopted, five thousand copies be printed, under the direction 
of thei Secretary ; and that he be required to transmit a copy of the same 
to each of ihe principal scientific and literary societies both in this and in 
other countries ; and also to snch individuals, of scientific or literary -re- 
putation, as he may judge likely to find interest in the proceedings of 
the institution. 

The board proceeded to the eonsideration of the following resolution : 

[No. 1.] Resolved, That for the present, out of the interest accruing to 
the institution, the sum of twenty thousand dollars be, and the same is 
hereby, appropriated for the purchase of books and the gradual fitting up 
of a library, and all other incidental expenses relating to the library, except 
the salaries of the librarian or librarians ; the said appropriation lo com- 
mence from the first of January, eighteen hundred and forty-eight. 

A motion was made by Mr. Hough that the same be amended, by 
striking out " twenty thousand dollars," and inserting " twelve thousand 
dollars ;" 

Which motion was disagreed to. 

Mr. Rush moved that " twenty thousand dollars'* be stricken out, and 
"fifteen thousand dollars" inserted ; 

Which motion was disagreed to. 

The question was then put, Will the-board agree to the resolution ? 

And was decided in the affirmative. 

The following resolution was then read and agreed to, viz : 

[No. 2.] Resolved, That the portion of the building to be for the pres- 
ent set apart for a library be of sufficient capacity to contain not less than 
one hundred thousand volumes; and that it is desirable that the plan 
should be such as to render an extension practicable if hereafter desired. 

The following resolution was then read and agreed to, viz : 

[No. 11.] Resolved. That for (he present the sum of four thousand 
dollars, out of the interest accruing to the institution, be appropriated for 
the purchase of philosophical and chemical apparatus, models, &c.; the 
said appropriation to commence on the first day of January next. 

The following resolutions, Nos. 7, 8, 9, 10, and 14, were read ; and, upon 
suggestions that it was desirable that the Secretary elect should be con- 
sulted before their adoption, they were postponed until the next meeting 
of the Board of Regents. 

[No. 7.] Resolved, That itis expedient to include ultimately in the plan 
of the institution popular lectures on useful subjects — as on agriculture 



13 [211] 

and its latest improvements ; on the productive arts of life ; on the sci- 
ences, and the aid they bring to labor ; on common school instruction, 
including the proper construction of school rooms, the most improved 
apparatus for teaching, and most judicious rnanagem^ent, moral and intel- 
lectual, of children in common schools ; also, if suitable lecturers be found, 
on history, natural and civil, including the physical history of the various 
races of men, and the gradual advance of each to its present state of 
civilization; on political economy, in its practical connexion with the 
e very-day business of life ; and generally on any department of useful 
knowledge not strictly professional. 

[No. 8.] Resolved^ further^ That if the funds of the institution per- 
mit, it is desirable that such lectures should be delivered not only at 
Washington, but gradually and successively, at different points in all the 
States in the Union, either by permanent professors or temporary lec- 
turers, engaged on behalf of the institution. 

[No. 9.] Resolved^ That, if the funds of the institution permit, there 
may be properly included in the plan the publication, periodically or 
otherwise, of popular tracts on the above subjects. 

[No. 10.] Resolved^ That, as one of the most effectual means of in- 
creasing knowledge among men, it shall be made apart of the duty of one 
or more of the ofRcers who may be engaged by the institution to institute 
original researches in the branch of science to which he may be devoted ; 
and that it shall be the duty of the Secretary, when such researches 
eventuate successfully, to communicate the results to other scientific 
societies throughout the world ; and to invite, in return, communications 
of a similar character from them. i 

[No. 14.] Resolved, That, in case of the organization of a board of pro- 
fessors, the said Secretary shall be ex njicio president of the said board of 
professors, with the usual rights and powers of the president of a Faculty; 
and, as president of said board, it shall be his privilege, when thereto 
authorized by said board, to make, on their behalf, any statement or rep- 
resentation to the. Board of Regents, either written or verbal ; and if any 
debate or discussion arise thereupon in the Board of Regents, he shall 
have the right to join therein; but in all cases without a vote in said 
Board of Regents. 

The board proceeded to the consideration of the resolutions reported 
yesterday by Mr. Choate, from the committee on the formation of a 
library, which were read and agreed to, as follows : 

[No. 1.] Resolved, That it be recommended to the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution forthwith to employ, subject to the approval of 
the Board of Regents, an assistant secretary, well qualified to discharge 
the duties of librarian. 

[No. 2.] Resolved, That a committee be appointed, in conjunction with 
the Secretary, to piepare and submit to this board extended lists of books, 
in the different departments of learning, proper to be first purchased, ac- 
cording to the general principles of this report ; and, for this purpose, that 
they be authorized to request the aid of the librarian, and of other per- 
sons competent to afford it, and to engage to such person the honor of 
the board for discretionary remuneration of such aid. 

Mr. Choate, Mr. Hilliard, and Mr. Rush were appointed the said com- 
mittee. 



211 ] 



14 



On motion of Mr. Owen, 

Resolned., That the salary of the Secretary, appointed under the 13th 
resohitiou reported by the Committee on Organization, and adopted by 
the board on the 3d instant, be three thousand five hundred dollars per 
annum, to commence from the date of his acceptance of the office. 

Resolved^ I'hat, until a permanent residence be provided for the Secre- 
tary in the buildings to be erected, a sum not exceeding five hundred 
dollars annually be appropriated to pay the rent of his residence. 

The board adjourned until to-morrow, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

SATURDAY, December 5, 1S46. 

Mr. Owen offered the following resolution, which was read, considered, 
and agreed to, viz : 

Resoloed, That the Assistant Secretary cause one thousand copies of 
the journal of the Board of Regents, from the commencement of its organi- 
zation to the close of this meeting, to be printed in the same form as the 
pamphlet already printed by this board, and that he forward twenty-five 
copies thereof to each of the regentsj 

Mr. Totten offered the following resolution, which was read, considered, 
and agreed to unanimously : • 

Whereas the present meeting of the board may probably be the last at 
which the services of Mr. Hough, regent from New York, as Secretary, 
will be required, 

Resolved, That the thanks of the board are respectfully offered to that 
gentleman for the prompt, valuable, and disinterested service he has ren- 
dered as Secretary. 

On motion of Mr. Bache, i 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to arrange with 
the Secretary the time and manner of the discharge of the duties enjoined 
on him by law, and by the resolutions of the regents. 

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed by the Chancellor 
to procure the introduction, if they deem it expedient, of a bill amenda- 
tory of the act establishmg this institution. 

Mr. Owen, Mr. Hough, and Mr. Evans were appointed the said com- 
mittee. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be entitled 
to participate in the deliberations of the Board of Regents, but without 
vote. 

On motion of Mr. Evans, 

Ordered, That when this board adjourn to-day, it adjourn to meet on 
the second Wednesday of this month, at the room of the Vice President 
of the United States, in the Capitol', at 11 o'clock, a. m. 

The board then adjourned accordingly. 

Journal of proceedings of the Smithsonian Institution at their second 

meeting. 

WEDNESDAY, December 9, 1S46. 

This being the second Wednesday of December, the Board of Regents 
met, pursuant to their resolution of the 9th day of September last, fixing 
their regular meetings. 



15 [211 ] 

Present, George M. Dallas, Chancellor ; William W. Seaton, George 
Evans, Robert Dale Owen, William J. Hough, Richard Rush, A. D. Bache, 
Joseph Totten. 

The number fixed by the act establishing the Smithsonian Institution 
as a quorum being five, a quorum was in attendance. 

At 11 o'clock, a. m., the Chancellor took the chair and called the board 
to order. 

Mr. Hough, from the committee appointed to v/ait on the President of 
the United States and the other persons named in the fourth section of 
,the act to establish the Smithsonian Institution, and obtain their written 
consent to the selection and appropriation of the public reserv-ation called 
the "Mall," west of Seventh street west, in the city of Washington, by the 
regents, as a site for the necessary-buildings for said institution, reported : 

That on the fifth day of December instant he called upon the Presi- 
dent of the United States and the other persons named in said fourth sec- 
tion of the act establishing said institution, and solicited their assent to 
the selection and appropriation by said regents of all that portion of said 
reservation lying we>t of Seventh street west, in said city, as a site for the 
necessary buildings for said institution, pursuant to the resolution of the 
Board of Regents heretofore passed making such selection and appropria- 
tion, but that he was unable to obtain the consent of all of said persons, 
although a portion of them signified their readiness to give such consent; 
and that itiasmuch as it seemed necessary that the assent of each and all 
of said persons be obtained to the validity of such selection and appropria- 
tion, the committee did not deem it of importance to obtain the written 
consent of such of said persons as'^ignified their willingness to the same, 
not being able to procure the whole. The committee, therefore, submit 
the following resolution for the consideration of the regents, and recom- 
mend the passage thereof 

The said resolution was then read and adopted, as follows : 

Whereas the consent of all the persons named in the fourth section of 
the act to establish the Smithsonian Institution has not been obtained to 
the selection and appropriation of the pubhc reservation called the '' Mall," 
west of Seventh street west, in the city of Washington, by the regents, 
as a site for the necessary buildings of said institution : Therefore, 

Resolved^ That a committee of three be appointed by the Chancellor to 
confer with the President of the United States and the other persons 
named in the fourth section of said act, and ask their consent to the selec- 
tion by said regents of that portion of said reservation lying between 
Seventh and Twelfth streets west, in said city, as the site for the neces- 
sary buildings^of said institution ; and, if such consent be given, 

It is further resolved. That said buildmgs be located thereon, and at 
least two hundred and fifty feet south of the centre thereof 

Mr. Hough, Mr. Owen, and Mr. Evans were appointed the said com- 
mittee. 

Mr. Seaton presented a coniraunication from Mr. George Catlin, accom- 
panied by a printed catalogue of his Indian Gallery, offering his collection 
of Indian memorials to the Smithsonian Institution, which was referred 
to the committee on the formation of a library. 
, On motion of Mr. Owen, 

Ordered, That when this board adjourn to-day, it adjourn to meet on 
Monday next, at 10 o'clock;, a. m. 



[211] 16 

And then, on motion of Mr. Evans, 

The board adjourned until Monday next, at 10 o'clock, a. rn. 

MONDAY, December 14, 1S40. 

The Chancellor laid before the board a letter from Professor Henry, 
accepting the appointment of Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Mr. Hough, from the committee appointed on the 9th instant to con- 
fer with the President of the United States and the other persons named 
in the fourth section of the act establishing the institution, made a verbal 
report, stating that the committee had had an interview with the Presi- 
dent and the persons mentioned, but had come to no final conclusion as 
to the matter for which they were appointed. 

And then the board adjourned until Monday next, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

MONDAY, December 21, 1846. 

Chief Justice Taney, one of the regents, appeared. 

Joseph Henry, the Secretary elect of the Board of Regents and of the 
Smithsonian Institution, appeared, and entered upon the duties of his 
office. 

Mr. Owen, from the committee appointed on the 9th instant to confer 
with the President of the United States and the other persons mentioned in 
the fourth section of the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian 
Institution, in relation to the location of the buildings of the institution, 
reported verbally that the committee had had an interview with those 
persons, but had not yet received their final decision upon the subject. 
On motion of Mr. Owen, 

Resolved, That the report made by Mr. Owen, on the 1st day of De- 
cember instant, from the Committee on the Organization of the Institu- 
tion, together with the resolutions accompanying the same, which have 
not been agreed to by the board, be recommitted to said committee. 

The board adjourned until Wednesday next, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

WEDNESDAY, December 23, 1846. 

Mr. Hough, from the committee appointed on the 9th instant to confer 
with the President of the United States and the other persons named in 
the fourth section of the act establishing the Smithsonian Institution, and 
to ask their consent to the selection by said regents of that portion of 
the public reservation called the " Mall," lying between Seventh and 
Twelfth streets, in the city of Washington, as the site for the necessary 
buildings of said institution, made a verbal report, accompanied by a 
copy of the preamble and resolutions adopted on the 9th instant, endorsed 
as follows, viz : 

" The consent of all the persons named in the fourth section of the act 
to establish the Smithsonian Institution is not given to the site herein 
selected. 

"JAMES K. POLK." 

On motion of Mr. Owen, 
Resolved, That the regents of the Smithsonian Institution do select 
and appropriate, as the site for their building, the south half of so much 



17 [ 211 ] 

of the " Mall," in the city of Washington, as lies between Ninth and 
Twelfth streets, if the consent of the persons named in the fourth section 
of the act of Congress establishing said institution be obtained thereto ; 
and the said ground so selected shall be set out by proper metes and 
bounds, and a description of the same shall be made, and recorded in the 
book of records of the proceedings of the Board of Regents, and signed 
by the regents. 

On motion, Mr. Hough, Mr. Owen, and Mr. Evans were appointed a 
committee to communicate the said resolution to the President of the 
United States and the other persons named in the fourth section of the 
act establishing the Smithsonian Institution. 

And then the board adjourned until Wednesday, the 20th day of Janu- 
ary, next, then to meet at the Vice President's room, iii the Capitol, at 
10 o'clock, a. m. 

WEDNESDAY, January 20, 1847. 

The Board of Regents met pursuant to their resolution of adjournment, 
adopted on the 23d day of December last. 

Hon. Lewis Cass, one of the regents, appeared. 

The committee appointed relative to the selection of a site for the build- 
ing of the Smithsonian Institution made a report thereon, communicating 
the consent of the President of the United States, and the other persons 
named in the act establishing the institution, to the selection and appro- 
pria"tion of the site selected by the regents. 

The Chancellor presented a letter from the Assistant Secretary and 
librarian pro tempore^ containing a list of books presented to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, in compliance with the tenth section of the act of 
Congress establishing the institution. 

The following resolutions, reported by the committee appointed on the 
9th day of September last to select a plan for a building for the institu- 
tion, were taken up and agreed to : 

Resolved, That the Norman plan of a building for the Smithsonian 
Institution, furnished by James Renwick, jr., of New York, substantially 
as amended agreeably to the suggestions of the committee, is approved 
and adopted by this board. 

Resolved^ That, as testimonials of the high sense entertained by this 
board of the scientific merit and skill displayed in their respective plans, 
the following premiums be awarded to the gentlemen named : 

To Messrs. Wells and Arnot - - ^ - $250 

Mr. .John Notman - - ' - 250 

Mr. John Haviland - - - 250 

Mr. Owen J. Warren , -■ - - 250 

and that one thousand dollars be appropriated for that purpose. 

Resolved, That a committee of three members of the board, as provi- 
ded for in the fifth section of the act of Congress, be appointed, who shall 
be empowered, on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution, to enter into 
contracts for the completion of the buildings, and to take security for 
their being finished according to the plan adopted by the board, and 
within the time that may be stipulated ; and that said committee have 
authority to employ one or more persons to superintend the erection of 
the buildings and the fitting up the rooms of the institution. 
3 



[ 211 ] 18 

Mr. Seaton offered the following resolution, which was read and agreed 
to: 

Resolved^ That all the architects who have presented plans for the con- 
sideration of the building committee be informed that the Board of Re- 
gents will hear any explanations they may desire to make in relation to 
their respective designs, to-morrow at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

The board adjourned until to-morrow, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

THURSDAY, January 21, 1S47. 

Mr. Evans offered the following resolutions, accompanying theiii with 
remarks suitable to the occasion : 

Resolved^ l^hsx the regents of the Smithsonian Institution have learned 
with profound sensibility that since their last meeting, the Honorable 
Isaac S. Pennybacker, late a member of this board, has departed this life. 

Resolved^ That in testimony of their high respect for the memory of 
their late associate, the members of this board will wear the custonjary 
badge of mourning for the period of thirty days. 

Resolved^ That these resolutions be entered upon the journal, and a 
copy of them be transmitted to the widow of the deceased. 

The resolutions being read, were agreed to unanimously. 

The board adjourned until to-morrow, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

FRIDAY, January 22, 1S47. 

The sitting this and the following day was occupied in hearing the 
explanations of Messrs. Arnot, Notman, Haviland, Rogers, Mills, Ren- 
wick, and Archer, of their respective plans. 

MONDAY, January 25, 1847. 

The Committee on Organ izati'bn, to which was recommitted, on the 21st 
December last, the report made by Mr. Owen on the 1st December last, 
together with the resolutions accon^panying the same, which had not 
been agreed to by the board, reported back the same in an amended 
form, accompanied by sundry resolutions ; which report and resolutions 
were laid upon the table. 

The said report is as follows : 

"For the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men," were the 
•words of Smithson's will — words used by a man accustomed to the strict 
nomenclature of exact science. They inform us that a plan of organi- 
zation, to carry into effect the intention of the testator, must embrace two 
objects : one, the calling forth of new knowledge by original research ; 
and the other, the dissemination of knowledge already in existence. 

Smithson's words, liberal and comprehensive, exclude no branch of 
human knowledge ; nor is there any restrictive clause in the charter un- 
der which we act. That charter indicates a few items chiefly relating to 
one of the above objects, and leaves the rest of the plan, under the gen- 
eral provision of the bequest, to the discretion of the board. 

First. It sets forth, as one of the objects of the institution, a library, 
that shall contain valuable works in all departments of human know- 
ledge. 



19 [211] 

S6i;ond. It requires that there be provided in the buildings of the insti- 
tution a hall, or halls, suitable for a museum capable of containing, on a 
liberal scale, collections of natural history, including geology and miner- 
alogy, and objects of foreign and curious research ; the large collection 
now in the Patent Office being transferred to the institution. 

Third. It requires that there be included in said building a chemical 
laboratory. 

Fourth. The building is to contain, also, " the necessary lecture 
rooms." And, 

Fifth. A gallery of art. 

These items, with the exception, perhaps, of the laboratory, relate to 
the diffusion of knowledge only. They render necessary an annual ap- 
propriation to collect and support a library ; another to maintain a muse- 
um ; and indicate an intention that a portion of the annual interest should 
be applied to the advancement of physical science and the arts, in part, 
by lectures. 

But, after enumerating these items, the framers of the charter added a 
clause of plenary powers authorizing the board, as to all funds not re- 
quired for the above special purposes, to make of them" such disposal as 
they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the purpose of the 
testator." 

In obedience to the requirements of the charter, which leaves little dis- 
cretion in regard to the extent of accommadations to be provided, your 
committee recommend that there be included in the building a museum 
of liberal size, fitted up to receive the collections destined for the institu- 
tion ; and that library room sufficient for a hundred thousand volumes be 
provided. They further recommend that the lecture rooms required by 
the act shall not exceed two in number, of which one of a small size 
should adjoin the laboratory, and another might be large enough to re- 
ceive an audience of a thousand persons. 

As important as the cabinets of natural history by the charter required 
to be included in the museum, your committee regard its ethnological 
portion, including all collections that may supply items in the physical 
history of our species, and illustrate the manners, customs, religions, 
and progressive advance, of the various nations of the world ; as, for ex- 
ample, collections of skulls, skeletons, portraits, dresses, implements, wea- 
pons, idols, antiquities, of the various races of men. 

In the accumulation of these collections, the institution has at com- 
mand great facilities. The collections of the exploring expedition, which 
already belong to its museum, furnish an ample commencement, espe- 
cially as regards Polynesia. Through the Commissioner of Indian 
Affairs, and the various agencies under his control, the North American 
race can be reached ; and at small expense the collection of Indian curi- 
osities, already begun at the Patent Office, may be rapidly extended. So, 
through our army and navy officers, and our consuls in foreign nations, 
European and South American collections (the latter so recently enriched 
by modern discovery) might be gradually brought together. 

In this connexion, your committee recommend the passage of resolu- 
tions askir?^ the co-operation of certain public functionaries, and of the 
public generally, in furtherance of the above objects. 

Your committee are further of opinion that in the museum, if the 
funds of the institution permit, might judiciously be included various series 



[211] ' 20 

of models illustrating the progress of some of the mostHseful inveiuions ; 
such, for example, as the steam engine, from its earliest and rudest form 
to its present most improved state ; but this they propose only so lar as 
it may not encroach on ground already covered by the numerous models 
in the Patent Office. 

Specimens of staple materials, of their gradual manufacture, and of the 
finished products of manufactures and the arts, may also, your committee 
think, be usefully introduced. This would supply opportunity to ex- 
amine samples of the best maimfactured articles our country affords, and 
to judge her gradual progress in arts and manufactures. 

As chemistry was the favorite study of Smithson's life, of which a 
considerable portion was spent in his own laboratory, and as it is, without 
doubt, one of the most comprehensive and important of the natural 
sciences, your committee recommend that this department be fitted up in 
as complete a manner as modern science can suggest. And for the pur- 
pQse of encouraging in the young men of our country original research 
in the same branch of science in which Smithson himself successfully 
labored ; and inasmuch as many are now compelled, in order to complete 
their studies as practical chemists, to resort to Paris or Germany, your 
committee further recommend that there be included in the building a 
working laboratory, somewhat, perhaps, after the model of that instituted 
by one of the ablest of German chemists, the celebrated Liebig ; to be 
opened under proper regulations and supervision, without charge to those 
who may desire to institute experiments and prosecute researches for 
themselves in that science. 

The gallery of art, your committee think, should include both paint- 
ings and sculpture, as well as engravings and architectural designs ; and 
it is desirable to have in connexion with it one or more studios, in which 
young artists might copy without interruption, being admitted under 
such regulations as the board may prescribe. Your committee also think 
that as the collection of paintings and sculpture will probably accumulate 
slowly, the room destined for a gallery of art might properly and usefully 
meanwhile be occupied during the session of Congress as an exhibition 
room for the works of artists generally; and the extent and general use- 
fulness of such an exhibition might probably be increased, if an arrange- 
ment could be effected with the Academy of Design, the Arts Union, the 
Artists' Fund Society, and other associations of similar character, so as 
to concentrate at the metropolis, for a certain portion of each winter, the 
best results of talent in the fine arts. 

The charter provides that the Secretary of the institution may, with 
the consent of the board, employ assistants ; and the items above enu- 
merated, touching a library, museum, and laboratory, seem to demand at 
the propex time the appointment of not less than three such assistants ; 
one as librarian, one as curator of the museum, and one as chemist. 
After a careful review of the means of the institution, and the annual de- 
mands upon it necessitated by the objects specially required in the charter, 
your committee are not prepared, with the present endowment only at 
command, to recommend a greater extension than these named of perma- 
nent offices requiring scientific or literary qiialifications ; and thl?y think 
that the appointments of curator and chemist may be postponed until the 
time, or nearly the time, when the building is likely to be completed. 

In these various recommendations your committee have been guided 



21 [ 211 ] 

chiefly by the words and specific recommendations of the charter. They 
are of opinion, however, that the task assigned them would be ill per- 
formed if they stopped short here, and neglected to avail themselves of 
the authority — liberally and wisely, your committee think — conferred upon 
the board, after providing for the above special objects to such extent as 
they may consider necessary and proper, to dispose of the remaining funds 
annually accruing in such manner as " they shall deem best suited for 
the promotion of the purpose of the testator." 

" Increase and diffusion of knowledge," your committee beg leave to 
report, was that purpose. 

How can knowledge be increased? 

By original research throughout its various fields ; yielding, when suc- 
cessfully prosecuted, positive additions to the sum of what had heretofore 
been known. 

For this there is no provision in the items specifically enumerated in 
the bill, and above provided for, except it may be in the chemical depart- 
ment, where the chemist or others engaging in experiment and investi- 
gation may furnish actual contributions to the science of chemistry. 
• But how may original researches generally be encouraged and called 
forth ? 

First, by premiums, your committee think, annually offered for origi- 
nal papers on such subjects as may be selected; it being a strict condi- 
tion that each paper accepted and obtaining a premium shall contain a 
specific addition to the sum of human knowledge, resting upon original 
investigations, and not mere unverified hypotheses. The accepted paper 
may be publisfied in the successive numbers of Transactions, which may 
be entitled " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge," and whioh your 
committee recommend to be issued periodically or occasionally, as mate- 
rials present themselves. The names of the competitors for premiums 
should in all cases remain unknown until the award is made. 

A liberal price might also be paid for other papers that may be con- 
sidered worthy of a place in the Transactions. 

'Again: as an additional means of promoting increase of knowledge, 
special appropriations may occasionally be made to institute definite lines 
of research, under the direction of competent persons ; after the manner, 
perhaps, of the British Association. Such appropriations^ however, your 
committee think should be made with great care, for important objects 
only, and where there is fair promise of speedy result ; and it might be 
advisable, as an additional guarantee, that in deciding the kind of research 
and the amount of money lo be appropriated the board avail itself of the 
suggestions of a council of scientific men. 

In the prosecution of researches undertaken at the instance of the insti- 
tution, and requiring the aid of valuable apparatus, the use of that be- 
longing to the institution might, under proper regulations, be granted. 

This stimulating and cherishing of research in unexplored fields seems 
to your committee the more necessary and proper in a country like ours^ 
where but few have at command that easy leisure common in older 
countries, and there permitting the prosecution of researches throughout 
years, or a lifetime, without expectation or necessity of pecuniary return. 
Your committee are aware that the researches here recommended, no 
matter how intrinsically important — demanded as they are, too, by the 
wording of the bequest which endowed our institution — will be likely, in 



[ 211 ] 22 

their inception and first publication, to interest a comparatively , small 
circle only. The Transactions of the Institution can be expected to obtain 
but a limited circulation. Not that the discoveries there to be presented 
are of little intrinsic importance, and bear no practical fruit: the reverse 
is true. Some may be immediately productive; others will include 
investigations unproductive in themselves for the time, yet the neces- 
sary preliminaries to the actual discovery of modes and forms that 
become, in every-day life, productive and profitable ; for invention is but 
the practical application of scientific results. But the severe investiga- 
tions in physics which ultimately resulted in the steam engine and the 
magnetic telegraph — inventions that are now revolutionizing the world — 
attracted in their original form the attention only of the strictly scien- 
tific. To reach the people generally, other and further means must be 
employed. And this brings your committee to speak of the testator's sec- 
ond object — 

The diffasionoi knowledge among men. 

In connexion with this branch of Mr. Smithson's purpose, your com- 
mittee are reminded of the widespread and beneficent influence, reaching 
to the remotest hamlet and the humblest hearth, exerted not in England 
alone, but in other and distant countries, by the British " Society for the 
Diffusion of Knowledge," its Scientific Tracts, and its Penny Magazine. 

This example indicates the most effectual mode of reaching the popu- 
lar mind of the world. Influenced by the results of such experience, 
your committee recommend the issuing, to such extent as the funds of 
the institution permit, of publications, in brief and popular form, on sub- 
jects of general interest. They advise, also, that courses of free lectures 
be delivered during the session of Congress, in the lecture rooms of the 
institution, by its officers, or by able' men, in the different branches of 
knowledge, who should be invited for the purpose, and paid out of the 
funds of the institution. It should also, your committee think, be made 
the duty of the Secretary and his assistants to exhibit in these lecture 
rooms, at stated periods, experimental illustrations of new discoveries 
in science, and interesting and important inventions in the arts. 

And if now, or hereafter, the funds of the institution permit, they think 
it desirable that such lectures should not be restricted to Washington, 
but should be given, by lecturers selected by the institution, through- 
out the United States. 

The difficulty in this latter recommendation is the great expense that 
must be incurred to procure the delivery of such lectures by men of suit- 
able ability, throughout every section of the Union, without preference or 
omission. 

Though neither the bequest nor the charter restrict the subjects that, 
may be treated in publication and lecture, yet, as the funds of the insti- 
tution are limited, and some selection from the vast range of human sub- 
jects of inquiry must be made, your committee recommend that, in the 
first place, the efforts of the institution be chiefly directed to the diffu- 
sion of knowledge in the physical sciences, in tlie useful arts, and the 
theory and practice of public education. They suggest that the lectures 
and popular publications of the institution may usefully treat of agricul- 
ture and its latest improvements ; of the productive arts of life ; of the 
sciences, and the aid they bring to labor; of common school instruction, 
including the proper construction of school-rooms, the most improved ap- 



23 [211] 

paratns for teaching, and the most judicious management, moral and in- 
tellectual, of children in common schools. They might also, if suitable 
talent can be enlisted, treat of history, natural arid civil, including the 
physical history of the various races of men, and the gradual advance of 
each to its present state of civilization; of political economy in its practi- 
cal connexion with the everyday business of life, and generally touch 
upon any department of useful knowledge not strictly professional. 

By such means, we may reasonably expect gradually to stir up a love 
of science among those in whose minds, for lack of an awakening word, it 
now lies dormant ; and, by directing the attention of the people gene- 
rally to the rich sources of knowledge that everywhere exist around 
them and beneath their feet, by degrees to substitute, for the deleterious 
excitements sought in haunts of dissipation, the healthful and humani- 
zing interest to be found in scientific research. The inestimable im- 
portance of common school education, and the practical means of increas- 
ing and improving it, might thus also be pressed home upon those whose 
children have often no other means of instruction or improvement. 

As an additional means of diffusing knowledge, your committee sug- 
gest the publication of a series of reports, to be published annually, or 
oftener, containing a concise record of progress in the different branches 
of knowledge, compiled from the journals of all languages, and the trans- 
actions of scientific and learned societies throughout the world. The 
matter of these reports may be furnished by collaborators eminent in their 
respective branches ; and these should be supplied with all the works 
necessary to a proper execution of their task, and paid in proportion to 
their respective labors. Copies of these Smithsonian Reports may be 
furnished to the principal libraries and scientific soci-eties of the country 
free of expense, and sold to individuals at a small price. 

Your committee beg leave here to remark, that with the limited annual 
in(;ome of the institution, charged as it is with extensive collections, to 
maintain which will prove a considerable yearly drain on its funds, they 
do not imagine or propose that all the recommendations here set down 
should be carried out, at least simultaneously.* These are put forward 
as objects which your committee consider desirable and strictly within 
the purpose of the bequest. Such as may seem to the board the most im- 
portant may be first attempted. Other portions of the plan may follow in 
their turn. And experience will gradually sift out whatever is most ju- 
dicious and effective. 

.Your committee are of opinion that it does not come properly within 
the scope of our institution to impart professional education ; and there- 
fore they recommend no school of any of the learned professions, nor any 
professorships of ancient languages, or others of similar character. It 
is not, however, their purpose to exclude lectures of a general character 
on subjects connected with any of these professions, but only to shut out 
those courses of lectures which treat of them in professional detail. The 
studies referred to are already provided for in numerous institutions 
throughout the United States ; and it has been the endeavor of your 
committee not only in this instance, but throughout the entire plan here 
submitted, to occupy, so far as may be, ground hitherto untenanted, and 
rather to step in where it comes not within the province of other-institu- 
tions, learned or literary, to extend their efforts, than to cornpete with 
them in fields of labor peculiarly their own. 



[211] ' 24 

The party politics of the day, on which men diflfer so widely and so 
warmly, should not, your committee think, enter among the subjects 
treated of in any lecture or publication put forth under the sanction of the 
institution. And they would deeply regret to see party tests and party 
wranglings obtrude themselves on the neutral ground of science and 
education ; jeoparding, as such intrusion surely would, the tranquillity of 
the institution, disturbing the even tenor of its action, perhaps assaulting 
its welfare, certainly contracting the sphere of its usefulness. 

Your committee think it important that the institution, at the time it is 
first opened, should have already in its hbrary a collection of such valu- 
able works of reference as, in the prosecution of its plan, may be' re- 
quired. In order to attain that object, your committee recommend that, 
for the present, twenty thousand dollars be set aside for the purchase of 
books and filling up of the library. 

An additional reason which has induced your committee to recommend, 
out of the accrued interest, so large an appropriation at the outset, is, that 
large annual appropriations from the accruing interest^ after the institution 
is under way, are thereby rendered the less necessary. 

In proposing that, in the building about to be erected, there should be 
provided library room sufficient to receive a hundred thousand volumxcs, 
your committee yielded rather to what seemed a fair concession to the 
spirit of the eighth section of our charter, than to their own deliberate 
conviction that a library of more than half that size could, with the pres- 
ent means of our institution, advantageously be purchased. 

But, without a vast accumulation of books in this metropolis, your 
committee conceive that a librarian of the Smithsonian Institution may, 
under a proper system, become a centre of literary and bibliographical 
reference for our entire country. Your committee recommend that the 
librarian be instructed to procure catalogues, written or printed, of all im- 
portant public libraries in the United States ; and also, in proportion as 
they can be obtained, printed catalogues of the principal libraries m 'Eu- 
rope, and the more important works on bibliography. With these beside 
him, he may be coilsufted by the scholar, the student, the author, the 
historian, from every section of the Union, and will be prepared to in- 
form them whether any works they may desire to examine are to be 
found in the United States ; and if so, in what library ; or if in Europe 
only, in what country of Europe they must be sought. 

Informed by these catalogues, it will be easy, and your committee think 
desirable, for those who may be charffed with the selection of books 
to make the Smithsonian library chiefly a supplemental one; to pur- 
chase, for the most part, valuable works which are not to be found else- 
where in the Union ; thus carrying out the principle to which your com- 
mittee has already alluded as influencing all their recommendations — that 
it is expedient, as far as may be, to occupy untenanted ground. 

Exceptions to this rule must here, of course, be made ; as in the case 
of standard works of reference required for the immediate purposes of 
the institution, and also of the very numerous works, many of cuj-rent 
science, which, by a proper system of exchanges, we may procure with- 
out purchase. In this latter connexion, the transactions and reports of 
the Institution will obtain for us valuable returns. 

In following out this mode of collecting a library for the institution, 
whenever a particular class of works of importance is found to be spe- 



25 [211] 

cially deficient in the libraries of our country, the vacancy may be filled. 
The librarian might also procure, by entering into correspondence with 
the librarians of other countries, any special extracts or items of informa- 
;ion required by students. 

Your committee consider it inexpedient to commence the regular pur- 
chase of books until about a year before the time when the building is 
prepared to receive them. Meanwhile, lists and catalogues should be 
procured. 

For the procurement of chemical and philosophical apparatus, models, 
&c., your committee recommend, for the present, an appropriation of four 
thousand dollars. If the funds permit, four thousand dollars more, your 
committee think, might profitabljr be appropriated for this object before 
the opening of the institution. 

Inasmuch as the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution, being a 
regent, can receive no salary for his services, it results, almost necessarily, 
that the Secretary should become its chief executive officer. The char- 
ter seems to have intended that he should occupy a very responsible po- 
sition ; granting as it does to the Secretary, in conjunction with the 
Chancellor, the power to determine the necessity and the amount of ap- 
propriations made for the purposes of the Institution. 

The office of Secretary must, in the opinion of your committee, be re- 
garded not as one to be filled by any man capable to act as recording 
clerk; or to receive with politeness the visitors of the Institution, or to re- 
ply, with mechanical propriety, to its correspondents, but as an office on 
the due administration of which the executive efficiency of our institu- 
tion at home and its reputation abroad mainly depend ; an office, then, 
demanding, in its incumbent, weight of character and a high grade of 
talent. 

To secure such stamp of talent as your committee consider essential 
in a Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, it may be necessary to at- 
tach to the office a considerable salary. The best talent, in any country, 
ever commands a high remuneration ; and though money cannot always 
command talent, it is, as a general rule, one of the elements necessary to 
obtain it. Inadequate character and qualifications are not worth purchas- 
ing at any rate, no matter how low. The money spent to procure them 
is utterly cast away. 

Your committee think it would be an advantage if a competent Secre- 
tary could be found, combining als® the qualifications of a professor of 
the highest standing in some branch of science. If to these be added 
efficiency as an executive officer and a knowledge of the world, we may 
hope to see filling ihis distinguished post a man who, when brought into 
communication with distinguished men and societies in this and other 
countries, shall be capable, as representative of the Smithsonian, rnstitu- 
tion, to reflect honor on the office, not requiring to borrow distinction 
from it. 

Your comimittee will not withhold their opinion, that upon the choice 
of this single officer, more probably than on any one other act of the 
boaid, will depend the future good name, and success and usefulness, of 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

A similar view, your committee believe, has been taken of this matter 
by the principal scientific societies throughout the world. Newton dis- 
dained not to answer, at much length, the friendly and able criticisms on 



[ 211 ] 26 

some of his theories, addressed to him by Oldenburg, first secretary of 
the London Royal Society ; and the name of Arago, secretary of the 
Academy of Sciences, of Paris, is known and honored wherever science 
extends her sway. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

ROBERT DALE OWEN, 

Chairman. 

The board adjourned until to-morrow, at 12 o'clock, meridian. 

TUESDAY, January 26, 184T. 

The board proceeded to the consideration of the series of resolutions 
offered from the Committee on Organization, yesterday ; and, after debate, 
they were agreed to, the series of resolutions being as follows : 

L Resolved, That it is expedient, and demanded by the will of the tes- 
tator, that in our plan of organization the increase of knowledge by 
original research should .form an essential feature ; that in furtherance of 
this object, premiums be offered, at such times and to such amounts as 
the board may hereafter decide, for original papers, containing positive 
additions to the sum of human knowledge; and that these, together with 
other suitable papers, be published in transactions of the institution, to 
be entitled " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge," and to be issued 
'periodically or occasionally, in quarto form, as materials maybe obtained. 

2. Resolved^ That it is within the strict purpose of the trust, and may 
materially advance its legitimate objects, occasionally to make specific 
appropriations for definite lines of research, the results to be published 
as above. 

3. Resolved, That, with a view to the diffusion of knowledge, there 
may be included in the plan of organization the issuing of publications, in 
brief and popular form, on subjects of general interest. 

4. Resolved, 'i'hat, with a similar object, there may also properly be 
included in the plan of organization the issuing of periodical reports con- 
taining records of the progress of knowledge in its different branches. 

5. Resolved, That there may also properly be included in the plan 
free lectures, to be delivered by competent persons, on useful subjects ; 
and that it may advantageously be made a part of the duty of the Secre- 
tary and his assistants to give in the lecture rooms of the institution, at 
stated periods, illustrations of discoveries in science and important inven- 
tions in the arts. 

6. Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress establishing 
the institution, and in accordance with the design of Mr. Smithson, as 
expressed in his will, that one of the principal modes of executing the 
act and the trust is the accumulation of collections of specimens and ob- 
jects of natural history and of elegant art, and the gradual formation of 
a hbrary of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human 
knowledge, to the end that a copious storehouse of materials of science, 
literature, and art may be provided, which shall excite and diffuse the 
love of learning among men, and. shall assist the original investigations 
and efforts of those who may devote themselves to the pursuit of any 
branch of knowledge. 



27 [ 211 ] 

7. Resolved, That for the purpose of carrying into effect the two prin- 
cipal modes of executing the act and trust pointed out in the resohitions 
' herewith submitted, the permanent appropriations out of the accruing 
interest shall, so soon as the buildings are completed, be annually as fol- 
lows ; that is to say: 

First, for the formation of a library composed of valuable works per- 
taining to all departments of useful knowledge, and for the procuring, 
arranging, and preserving of the various collections of the institution, as 
well of natural history and objects of foreign and curious research and of 
elegant art as others, including salaries and all other general expenses 
connected with the same, excepting those of the first complete arrange- 
ment of ail such collections and objects as now belong to the United 
States in the museum of the institution, when completed, together with 
one-half of the salary of the Secretary, the sum. of fifteen thousand 
dollars. 

Secondly, for the preparation and publication of transactions, reports, 
and all other publications of the institution, including appropriations for 
original researches and premiums /or original papers ; for the delivery of 
all lectures and payment of all lecturers, and for all general expenses 
connected with said lectures and' publications, together with one-half of 
the salary of the Secretary, the remainder of the annually accruing inter- 
est; it being understood that all general and incidental expenses not 
specially connected with either of the above two great divisions of the 
plan of the institution shall be equally divided between them. 

Mr. Bache offered the following resolutions, which were read, consid- 
ered, and agreed to : 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be in- 
structed to present to the Committee on Organization a plan for executing 
the resolutions relating to Smithsonian contributions, to annual reports 
and other publications, to premiimis, and to original researches. 

Resolved. Thai said committee, in conjunction with the Secretary, be 
authorized to publish in quarto form a number of the Smithsonian contri- 
butions to science, as soon as suitable materials are collected for the same, 
of which the Secretary and committee shall judge, provided thai the ex- 
pense thereof shall not exceed one thousand dollars ;, which sum is hereby 
appropriated to that object from the income of the institution for the year 
1847. 

Resolved, That the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution be re- 
quested to prepare a biographical notice of Mr. Smithsoa for the first num- 
ber of ihe, contributions. 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be re- 
quested to continue his researches in physical science, and to present 
such facts and principles as may be developed, for publication in the 
Smithsonian contributions. * 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be au- 
thorized and .requested to communicate with men eminent in science 
and literature, and to ask their advice, in behalf of the institution, in 
regard to the subjects for which premiums shall be offered, and upon 
which reports and essays shall be prepared. 

Resolved, That the Committee on Organization present, for the ap- 
proval of the board at its next aieeting, the details of the plans which 
they may recommend, in pursuance of the foregoing, for the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge among men. 



[ 211 ] 28 

Mr. Hilliard offered the following resolutions, which were read, and, 
after debate, were ageed to : 

Resolved^ l''hat the salary of the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, 
shall be two thousand dollars. 

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested now to nominate to the 
board an assistant, who shall be the librarian, and whose salary shall 
commence whenever the building is ready for the reception of the 
library. 

Resolved, That for any services rendered from this time, in collecting 
books, making catalogues, &c., he shall receive such compensation as the 
Executive Committee may deem reasonable. 

Whereupon the Secretary remarked, that, understanding Professor 
Charles C. Jewett, of Brown University, to be the preference of a ma- 
jority of the board, he therefore nominated Charles C. Jewett for Assist- 
ant Secretary, acting as librarian, of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Mr. Evans offered the following resolution, which was read and agreed 
to: 

Resolved, That this board do ^prove the nomination of Charles C. 
Jewett, and consent to his employment as an Assistant Secretary, to act as 
librarian. 

The board then adjourned. 

THURSDAY, January 23, 1847. 

Mr. Owen offered the following resolutions, which were read, consid- 
ered, and agreed to : 

Resolved, That the Norman plan of a building for the Smithsonian 
Institution, furnished by James Renwick, jr., of INew York, substantially 
as amended and reduced agreeably to the suggestions of the committee, 
is approved by the board. 

Resolved, That a building committee of three members of the board, 
as provided in the fifth section of the act of Congress, be appointed, who 
are hereby authorized and empowered, on behalf of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, to enter into contracts for the completion of the building; and 
that said committee have power to employ one or more persons to super- 
intend the erection of the building and the fitting up of the rooms of the 
institution; and that the work shall be done to the entire satisfaction of 
the said superintendent or superintendents ; and the said superintendent 
or superintendents shall have power, and shall be reonired, to reject any 
of the material proposed to be employed, and also to object to inferior or 
insufficient work, and to direct its change, at his or their discretion. 

Resolved, That in the performance of the duty intrusted to them, the 
building committee of three hereinbefore referred to shall give the con- 
tracts to the lowest bidder of reputation, who shall give unexceptionable 
security, to the entire saiisfactiotl of the committee, for the performance of 
said contracts ; and such security shall in all cases be taken. No advance 
shall in any case be made; and fifteen per cent, of all payments shall be 
retained until the'faithful performance of the work. 

Resolved, That the building committee, after taking counsel with the 
Secretary, shall carefully revise the specifications of the plan furnished to 
this board by the architect, before entering into any contract; and if, 
after such examination, they shall be of opinion that any modifications of 
the said plan and specifications are necessary for the safety, durability, or 



29 [ 211 ] 

better adaptation of the structure, they may incorporate these in the said 
specifications; but no addition to the dimensions of the building shall be 
made, nor any ornament of any kind be added; and the said modifica- 
tions shall have sole reference to the safety, durability, and adaptation of 
the building. And the whole amount of the contract for the said build- 
ing, including the modifications above provided for, shall, under no cir- 
cumstances, exceed the amount of the original estimates of the architect, 
to wit: the sum of two hundred and ten thousand dollars, with a per 
centage not exceeding ten per cent, on the said sum. 

Resolved, That the building committee be also authorized to contract 
for the warming and lighting of the building ; provided that the contract 
for th'e above objects shall not exceed five thousand dollars. 

Resolved, That the building committee -be also authorized to contract 
for the fitting up and furnishing of the buildings of the institution ; pro- 
vided that the contract for the same shall not exceed twenty thousand 
dollars. 

Resolved, That the building committee be also authorized to contract 
for a permanent fence around the grounds belonging to the institution ; 
provided the contract for the' same shall not amount to more than ten 
thousand dollars. 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the institution be authorized to con- 
tract for the necessary chemical and philosophical apparatus, for which' 
an appropriation of four thousand dollars has heretofore been made. 

Resolved, That the. building committee be authorized to contract for 
the grading, laying out, and planting of the grounds of the institution ; 
and that three thousand dollars, in addition to the one thousand dollars 
heretofore appropriated, be, and the same is hereby, appropriated for that 
purpose. 

And it being on the one hand desirable that a portion of the buildings 
to be erecied by the institution be ready for use at an early day, and it 
being on the other essential to the solidity and durability of a struc- 
ture of the size required to embrace all the objects specified in the act of 
Congress, that its erection be gradual and not too rapidly hastened for- 
ward: Therefore, 

Resolved, That the building committee be instructed to arrange the 
contracts for the buildings of the institution so that the wings of said 
building may be completed in two years from the present time, and the 
whole to be completed in five years. 

Mr. Owen also offered- the following resolution : 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee certify to the Chancellor and 
Secretary of the board the total amount of debts incurred, contracts en- 
tered into, and contracts authorized by the board ; and that the Chancel- 
lor and Secretary, after examination and approval of the same, certify the 
same to the proper ofiicer of the treasury for payment. 
The said resolution was read ; when 

Mr. Evans moved to amend the same by adding thereto the following, 
as an additional resolution : 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to receive said 
payment in treasury notes payable to the order of the Chancellor of the 
Smithsonian Institution in one year from date, bearing an interest of six 
percent, per annum ; and that they be further authorized to exch,ange one 
hundred and fifty thousand dollars of said notes as soon as practicable 



[211] 30 

for an equal amount of six per cent, stock of the United States, payable. 
in twenty years, which stock shall also be payable to the Uhancellor of 
the institution ; which said notes and stock shall be deposited for safe 
keeping only with the Treasurer of the United States, or such other person 
as they may deem proper, to be drawn out only upon checks or war- 
rants signed by the Chancellor, the Secretary, and chairman ol the Exe- 
cutive Committee. 

The said amendment was read; and the question being put, Will the 
board agree thereto ? 

It was decided in the affirmative. 

Then the said resolution as amended was agreed to by the board. 

Mr. Owen offered the following resolutions, which were read, consider- 
ed, and agreed to : 

Resolved, That it is the opinion and intention of the board that, in the 
appropriation for the objects of the institution of any surplus of accrued 
interest which may remain after the completion of the buildings of the 
institution, an equal division shall be made between the two great 
branches ; that is to say, one-half shall be appropriated to the library and 
museum fund, and the other half to the fund for original research, publi- 
cations, and lectures ; and that, in regard to all other funds hereafter to 
accrue to the institution, the same division be made. 

Resolved, That the building committee be instructed, in the arrange- 
ment of the buildings, to extend the gallery of art throughout the western 
range and western wing ; and to arrange two lecture rooms, and no more, 
in the building. Temporary arrangements shall be made to receive in 
the west wing of the building the library of the institution until the 
library proper be completed. 

Mr. Seaton offered the following resolutions, which were read : 

Resolved^ That the building committee invite separate proposals for the 
principal descriptions of work requisite for the erection of the building, 
to wit: the masonry, carpentry, plastering, painting and glazing, and 
enter into contract with different persons for these several branches of 
work, requiring the proper security from each contractor, so that the re- 
sponsibility for the erection of the whole building shall not be committed 
to one person. 

Resolved^ That the building committee invite proposals for the con- 
struction of the exterior walls of the building of upper Potomac sand- 
stone, of marble, of granite, and of blue gneiss, respectively, and adopt 
that one of these four named materials which shall be deemed to com- 
bine the requisites of cheapness, beauty, and durabihty. 

The question was put, Shall the first of the said resolutions pass? and 
decided in the negative. 

The question was then put, Shall the second of the said resolutions 
pass? and decided in the affirmative. 
On motion of Mr. Hough, 

The Board of Regents proceeded to the consideration of the second of 
the resolutions of the committee on the plan of the building, submitted 
on the 20th instant. 

And after debate, the question was put, Shall the resolution pass? and 
decided in the affirmative. 

The board proceeded to the consideration of the third resolution sub- 
mitted by the said committee ; and, after debate, the same was agreed to. 

The board adjourned until Saturday, at 10 o'clock. 



31 [211] 

SATURDAY, January 30, 184T. 

Mr. Evans offered the following resolution : 

Resolved^ That it is expedient that an assistant lo the Secretary be ap- 
pointed, who shall also be the clerk of the building and Executive 
committees, who shall take charge of the roftms which may be obtained 
for the use of the institution ; who shall assist the Secretary in keeping: the 
records of the regents, keep accounts and papers of the Secretary and of the 
building committee ; who shall be competent to prepare all public advertise- 
ments, draw all contracts, keep all accounts of disbursements, and pre- 
pare all accounts for settlement at the treasury, and discharge such duties 
generally connected with the institution as may be required of him by 
the Secretary or the building committee ;'and who shall receive such com- 
pensation as shall hereafter be fixed upon by the board. 

The resolution being read, the further consideration thereof was post- 
poned for the present. 

The board adjourned to Friday next, at 10 o'clock. 

FRIDAY, February 5, 1S47. 

Mr. Bache offered, as an amendment of a previous one of Mr. Owen, 
the following resolution, which was read and agreed to : 

Resolved, That the building committee, in conjunction with the Sec- 
retary, be authorized to publish, in such form as they may deem most ap- 
propriate, one thousand copies of a brief treatise, to be entitled " Hints on 
Public Architecture," and to be illustrated with designs of the plan of 
the buildings adopted for the Smithsonian Institution, and, at the option 
of the committee, with any other desiijns that are the property of the insti- 
tution, provided that the cost of the same shall not exceed one thousand 
dollars, which sum is hereby appropriated for that purpose. 

Mr. Owen offered the following resolution, which was read, considered, 
and agreed to : 

Resolved, That the Secretary add to the report of the organization 
committee, when printed, a copy of the will of the testator, of the act ac- 
cepting the bequest, and of the act organizing the institution.. 
On motion of Mr. Evans, 

The board proceeded to the consideration of the resolution offered by 
him on the 30th of January last, to appoint an assistant tt) the Secretary ; 

When the said resolution was read and agreed to. 
On motion of Mr. Evans, 

The board proceeded to the appointment of the " committee of three," 
in accordance with the fifth section of the act organizing the institution. 

Messrs. J. G. Totten, Robert Dale Owen, and William W. Seaton, were 
appointed the said committee. 

On motion of Mr. Hilliard, 

Ordered, That Mr. A. D. Bache be appointed temporarily in the place 
of Mr. J. G. Totten on the Executive Committee, who is now in Mexico. 

Ordered, That Mr. Hough be appointed temporarily in the place of J. 
G. Totten on the building committee. 
On motion of Mr. Evans, 

Resolved, That in the absence of any member of any one of the com- 
mittees, the remaining members thereof be authorized to appoint one 
temporarily in his stead. 



[ 211 ] 82 

On motion of Mr, Evans, 
The Board of Regents adjourned sine die. 

WEDNESDAY, February 17, 1847. 

The Board of Regents met at 10 o'clock, a. m., pursuant to the resolu- 
tion of organization. 

Present, Mr. Dallas, (Chancellor,) Mr. Seaton, Mr. Hough, Mr. Owen, 
Mr. Bache, Mr. Hilliard, Mr. Evans, and Mr. Rush. 

The Secretary presented a letter from C. C. Jewett, accepting the ap- 
pointment of Assistant Secretary, to act as librarian ; which was read, 
and laid upon the table. 

Mr. Owen offered the following preamble and resolutions, which were 
read, considered, and agreed to : 

Whereas a bill has been introduced into the Senate of the United 
States, relative to the site of the Smithsonian Institution, 

Resolved, That if, in virtue of the provisions of said bill, any change 
in the present site of the institution be made, all the contracts heretofore 
authorized by the board in regard to building, laying out the grounds, 
fencing, &.c., shall be and remain in full force, and shall, apply to any 
new site that may be selected, in the same manner as the same now ap- 
ply to the site in the possession of the institution. 

Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing resolution be forthwith com- 
municated by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the Secre- 
tary of the Treasury of the United States. 
On motion of Mr; Hough, 

Ordered, Thai the board adjourn until Saturday next, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

Thereupon, the board adjourned. 

SATURDAY, February 20, 1847. 



The following resolution was adopted : 

Resolved, That the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars be paid by 
the Executive Committee to Mr. Isaiah Rogers, architect, Boston, in full 
remuneration for plans submitted by him to the board. 

On motion, the board adjourned to meet on Wednesday next, the 24th 
instant, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

WEDNESDAY, February 24, 1847. 

The committee appointed on the 5th December last, to " procure the 
introduction, if they deem it expedient, of a bill amendatory of the act 
establishing this institution," submit, as the best explanation of their 
proceedings, the following communication addressed by them to the ed- 
itor of the " Union," and pubUshed in that paper of the 15th February : 

TO THE EDITORS. 

Sir: The undersigned, appointed by the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution a committee to " procure the introduction into 
Congress, if they deem it expedient, of a bill amendatory of the act or- 
ganizing the institution," have, in discharging the duty assigned them. 



33 [211] 

had brought under their consideration the subject treated of in an edito- 
rial published in the Union of February 11. And they beg leave to offer, 
in reply, a few remarks and a brief statement of their intentions in the 
premises. 

The building committee of the Smithsonian Institution have already 
exonerated the board from all responsibility connected with the selection 
of a site on the Mall in preference to one in the populous portion 6f the 
city ; no choice being in fact left to the board, since no suitable unoccu- 
pied square is to be found on the entire plan of the city this side of the 
canal ; and, with no other powers than those contained in the act organ- 
izing the institution, no site already occupied could be purchased by the 
institution. 

There is a site the most eligible, probably, in the city, for our institu- 
tion — that of the present City Hall. It has been represented to the un- 
dersigned that it would be most desirable, on the score of public conve- 
nience, if it could be procured. They concur in this opinion. In the 
immediate vicinity of the principal hotels and boarding houses, compri- 
sing an eminence whence the ground gradually falls off in all directions, 
in a healthy portion of the city, utility and appearance would be equally 
consulted in selecting it. But it is in the occupation of the city, and, 
while the present building remains upon it, it can properly receive no 
other public edifice. Without the concurrent action of Congress and of the 
City Corporation it cannot be obtained as a site for the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. 

The undersigned, however, having had their attention called to this 
subject not only by the article to which they are replying, but by other 
similar representations, after maturely considering the subject, have re- 
solved to endeavor to obtain such concurrent action. They examined 
the plan of the present City Hall, the same of which a model now stands 
in the corridor of that hall, and of which the building now erected is but 
a small part; and that, too, unfinished, inconvenient, and unsightly. 
They ascertained that this fraction of the plan, bald and gloomy as it is, 
adapted to receive expensive porticoes and steps on three of its sides, (no 
portions of which, during the quarter of a century it has stood, have 
been attempted,) has cost ninety thousand dollars ; and they found the 
estimate for its completion to be three hundred and ten thousand dollars 
more. That it will ever be completed, no one believes. Congress will 
not, and the city cannot, furnish the iheans. To give even to the frac- 
tion that now stands a decent or reputable finish, would cost fifty or sixty 
thousand dollars; and though its present dilapidated condition — most 
discreditable both to the city and the government — may seem loudly to 
demand some action, yet it is doubtful whether Congress will ever ex- 
pend that amount on so unpromising and expensive an object. 

Nor is the present shell, great as has been its cost, profitable any 
more than ornamental. It brings little or no revenue to the city. In 
view of these circumstances, the undersigned came to the conclusion 
that a sum, say of fifty thousand dollars, would probably be a sufficient 
inducement to the city authorities to abandon a building they can never 
hope to complete, and which, unfinished as it stands, is an eyesore and a 
reproach ; inasmuch as with that sum they could put up, on the Centre 
Market space, a plain building sufiicient to afford, in its upper story, 
the accommodations required as well by t^ie United States circuit court 
3 



[211] 34 

and its officers, as by the city authorities, while its lower story might 
furnish market stalls and stores that would rent for many thousand dol- 
lars annually. 

The undersigned were also of opinion that, considering the advantages 
of the City Hall site to the Smithsonian Institution, so far as regards its 
usefulness in connexion with its library, its collections, and its lectures, 
the institution might properly and prudently give for the materials of the 
City Hall their full value — say fifteen thousand dollars. 

If these views be correct, the only remaining difficulty regards the 
thirty-five thousand dollars necessary to make up to the city the full 
sum of fifty thousand dollars. And this sum the undersigned believe it 
to be just and expedient that Congress should appropriate, provided the 
corporation will bind itself to furnish in their new building sufficient ac- 
commodation for the United States circuit court, its officers and records ; 
just, because the general government has already, for the sum of ten 
thousand dollars only, (which it paid to the city twenty-five years ago,) had 
the use of nearly half the City Hall for its courts throughout all that term of 
years, and therefore ought now to furnish further means to procure the 
accommodation necessary for that purpose ; and expedient, because the 
present City Hall, which cannot, for very shame, be left without some 
repair or finish much longer, will, from the necessity of the case, while it 
stands, remain a permanent ground of claim on the government ; and be- 
cause any repairs worth making on it at all would exceed the sum here pro- 
posed to be appropriated. The cheapest thing that can be done with the 
City Hall, both as regards the city and the government, is, the undersigned 
believe, to get rid of it. And if on its site a building arise, reputable 
even, to say nothing of architectural beauty, and commenced with funds 
and upon a scale that insures its speedy com'pletion, it should count for 
something, if only on the score of appearance and national reputation, 
that a gloomy and meaningless and slovenly pile has been replaced by an 
object that will strike pleasantly on the eye of the traveller as he ap- 
proaches this metropolis. 

Governed by considerations such as these, the undersigned, in view of 
the fact that whatever is done in this matter must be done at this session 
of Congress, have decided, in discharge of the duty assigned them by 
the board, to introduce into Congress without delay a bill of which the 
following is a copy : 

AN ACT to authorize the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to pui-chase, for the use of 
said institution, of the corporation of the city of "Washington, the City Hall, and for other 

purposes. 

Be it enacted, <^c., That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 
be, and they are hereby, authorized to purchase of the corporation of the 
city of Washington all the right, title, and interest of the said corporation 
in and to the City Hall of the said city ; subject, however, to the condi- 
tions and provisions hereinafter specified ; Provided, That the corpora- 
tion shall, on or before the tenth day of March next, enter into bond, 
with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Attorney General of the 
United States, that they will erect on the Market Space, between 7th and 
9th streets west, and between Pennsylvania avenue and B street north, a 
suitable and commodious building, in. which there shall be included such 
apartments as may be neceslary for the accommodation of the circuit 



35 [211] 

court of the United States for the county of Washington, in the District 
of Columbia, for the use of the grand and petit jurors of the said county, 
for the offices of the clerk of the said court and the marshal of said 
District, and for the preservation and security of the books, papers,. and 
records of the said court; and that they will complete the said building, 
or so much of the same as may contain the apartments and accommoda- 
tions aforesaid, and shall prepare the same for the said courts and offices, 
on 'or before the tenth day of March, 1 848. And, upon such purchase 
being completed, the said corporation shall release and forever quit claim 
unto the said Smithsonian Institution all the right and title of the said 
corporation unto' the said City Hall, and unto the possession and occupa- 
tion of the lot or square on which the same now stands. 

Sec. 2. And he it further enacted^ That so soon as the said bond and 
release shall be executed by the said corporation, and sufficient evidence 
thereof be laid before the President of the United States, the President 
be, and he is hereby, authorized to grant unto the said corporation the 
right to occupy and improve, for public purposes, all or any portion of 
that lot or square of ground in the city ot Washington, including the 
Market Space, lying between Seventh and Ninth streets west, and bound- 
ed on the north by the south line of Pennsylvania avenue, and on the 
south by the north line of B street north. And then, and in that case, there 
shall also be paid to the corporation, towards the erection of the building, 
as provided in the first section of this act, the sum of thirty-five thousand 
dollars, which sum is hereby appropriated out of any money in the treas- 
ury not otherwise appropriated ; and the said sum of thirty-five thousand 
dollars is hereby declared to be in full of the apartments and accommo- 
dations specified in the first section of this act; and the said apartments 
and accommodations shall forever remain subject to the occupation of the 
courts and their offices aforesaid. 

Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That in case of the execution, by the 
said corporation, of the bond and release aforesaid, the regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution be, and they are hereby authorized, by resolution of 
the Board of Regents, to retrocede to the United States that certain build- 
ing site in the city of Washington, and in the public reservation com- 
monly called the Mall, which, according to the provisions of the act or- 
ganizing said institution, approved August 10, 1846, has become the 
property of the said institution ; and, upon proper evidence being adduced, 
to the satisfaction of the President of the United States, of said retroces- 
sion, the President shall be, and he is hereby, authorized to convey to 
the Smithsonian Institution, by metes and bounds, so much of that pub- 
lic reservation in the city of Washington, commonly called the Judiciary 
Square, as lies south of the extension of the south line of E street north, 
being the same lot or square on which the City Hall now stands ; and 
the said conveyance by the President shall be received in evidence in all 
courts of the extent and boundaries of the lot or square of land which, by- 
virtue of this act, may become the property of the said Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the Commissioner of Public 
Buildings in the city of Washington be, and he is hereby, authorized and 
required to provide temporary accommodations in some suitable building 
for the circuit court of the United States for the county of Washington, 
and for its offices and records, until the tenth day of March, 1848. And 
for the purpose of procuring said accommo4ations, the sum of one thou- 



[ 211 ] 36 

sand dollars, or so much of the same as may be required for that object, 
be, and the same is hereby, appropriated out of any money in the treasury 
.not otherwise appropriated. 

It will be observed that this bill leaves the matter wholly at the discre- 
tion, first, of the corporation, and, secondly, of the Board of Regents. 
Unless both concur to accept its provisions, it will be inoperative. The 
undersigned do not know that either will accept them ; but that they will, 
and that they ought to do so, they have given their reasons for believing. 

GEO. EVANS, 7 

WM. J. HOUGH, y Committee. 

ROBT. DALE OWEN, 3 
Washington, February 13, 1847. 

Since the publication of the above, and the introduction into the Senate 
by one of your committee of the bill referred to, the common council of 
Washington, during their session of February 22, passed, by a vote of 17 to 
3, a resolution to the effect " that it is the deliberate opinion of the 
two boards that the proposed change would not comport with the in- 
terests of the city." 

This vote, your committee think, shuts out all prospect of carrying out 
the plan contemplated in the proposed bill ; and for that reason, though 
after reflection has but confirmed the conviction of the propriety and util- 
ity of that plan, they have abandoned it, and have ceased to urge through 
Congress the passage of the bill in question. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

GEO. EVANS. 

WM. J. HOUGH. 

ROBT. DALE OWEN. 
» 

The following resolution was offered by Mr. Seaton, and agreed to by 
the board : 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to procure a 
suitable seal for the institution, to comprehend the medallion head of 
Smithson, surrounded by the words " Smithsonian Institution." 

The board adjourned, to meet on Saturday next, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

SATURDAY, February 27, 1847. 

On motion of Mr. Owen, 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to ciuse to be instituted a 
series of experiments to determine the economical value of the different 
building materials used in the United States. 

Adjourned until Monday, at 10 o'clock. 

MONDAY, March 1, 1847. 

Mr. Preston appeared, and took his seat in the board. 
Mr. Owen offered the following resolution, which was adopted: 
Resolved, That the sum of five hundred dollars, or so much of the 
same as may be necessary, be, and the same is hereby, appropriated to- 
wards the expenses of the experiments heretofore authorized to be insti- 
tuted to determine the economical value of the different building mate- 
rials used in the United States. 



37 [211] 

Mr. Hough offered the following resolution, of which he gave notice at 
the last meeting : 

Resolved, That it being understood Mr. George Catlin is about to re- 
turn to this country with his collection of Indian paintings, (fcc, he be 
requested to deposite the same in one of the galleries of the Smithsonian 
Institution, as soon as the building shall be ready for its reception, provi- 
ded he will do so without charge to the institution ; and that upon such 
deposite being made, said institution will properly arrange and prepare 
said collection for exhibition. 

The motion was agreed to. 

Mr. Hough also proposed the following, which was adopted : 
\ Resolved, That the Secretary inform Mr. Catlin of the adoption of the 
above resolution, and of the probable time the building will be ready for 
the reception of the collection. 

The Board of Regents then adjourned sine die. 



The Board of Regents have drawn from the treasury, for the 
current expenses of the institution, the sum of - - f 7,584 07 

The disbursements from this fund have been as follows : 

Expenses of regents in attending meetings of the 

, board - - - - - - $2,525 10 

For materials and erection of specimen walls, and 

superintendence thereof ... 

For compensation to architects for designs, &c. - 
For books purchased - - . . 

For services of assistant secretary 
For recording journal and documents, and sundry 

incidental expenses . - . . 

For services of messenger 
Postage - - - - . , - 



Leaving a balance in hand of 
Washington, March 1, 1847. 



343 53 

1,025 00 

479 49 

200 00 

193 25 

73 50 

5 03 


4,844 90 




- 


2,739 17 



