r 



h 



r^ 



f\ 



I 



/ 



ANNUAL EEPOET 



OF THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 0! THE INSTITUTION 



THE YEA.R 1874. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
1875. 



FORTY-THIRD CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION. 

Congress of the United States, 

In the House of Rephesentatives, 

Febi-uary 27, 1875. 
The following resolution, originating in tLe House of Representatives, February 24, 
IST.'j, has tliis day been concurred in by the Senate: 

licsolved by the House of liejjrcsentaiives, {Ihe Senate concurring,) That ten thousand 
five huT.dred copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1874 be 
l)rinted, two thousand coi)ies of which shall be for the use of the House of Representa- 
tives, one thousand for tlie use of the Senate, and seven thousand live hundred for the 
use of the Institution: I'roridcd, That the aggregate number of pages of said report 
shall not exceed four hundred and tifty, and tlaat there shall be no illustrations except 
those furnished by the Smithsonian Institution. 
Attest : 

EWD. Mcpherson, cierk. 



LETTEE 

FROM THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

TRANSMITTING 

The Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1874. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, January 20, 1875. 
Gentlemen : In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to 
submit to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution 
for the year 1874. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. Henry Wilson, 

President of the Senate. 
Hon. J. G. Blaine, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1874. 



This document contains : 

1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera- 
tions and condition of the establishment for the year 1874, with the sta- 
tistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &c. 

2. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial 
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, 
the receipts and expenditures for the year 1874, and the estimates for 
1875. 

3. The proceedings of the Board of Eegents. 

4. A general appendix, consisting principally of reports of lectures, 
translations from foreign journals of articles not generally accessible, 
but of interest to meteorologists, correspondents of the Institution, teach- 
ers, and others interested in tlie promotion of knowledge. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



ULYSSES S. GEANT, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer of the 
Institution. 

MOERISON R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Institu- 
tion, (President of the Board of Regents.) 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary (or Director) of the Institution. 



EEGENTS or THE INSTITUTION. 



MORRISON E. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States, President of the Board. 

HENRY WILSON, Vice-President of the United States. 

H. HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States. 

J. W. STEVENSON, member of the Senate of the United States. 

A. A. SARGENT, member of the Senate of the United States. 

S. S. COX, member of the House of Rei)resentative8. 

E. R. HOAR, member of the House of Representatives. 

G. AV. HAZELTON, member of the House of Rexjresentatives. 

JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington. 

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 

J. D. DANA, citizen of Connecticut. 

HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania. 

GEORGE BANCROFT, citizen of Washington. 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOAED OF EEGENTS. 



PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. GEO. BANCROFT. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



U. S. GRANT, President of the United States. 
HENRY WILSON, Vice-President of the United States. 
M. R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States. 
H. FISH, Secretary of State. 

B. H. BRISTOW, Secretary of the Treasury. 
W. W. BELKNAP, Secretary of War. 

G. M. ROBESON, Secretary of the Navy. 
MARSHALL JEWELL, Postmaster-General. 

C. DELANO, Secretary of the Interior. 
GEO. H. WILLIAMS, Attorney-General. 

J. M. THACHER, Commissioner of Patents. 



OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE INSTITUTION AND 
NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, Director of the Institution. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretanj. 

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Cleric. 

DANIEL LEECH, Corresponding Clerk. 

CLARENCE B. YOUNG, Book-keeper. 

HERMANN DIEBITSCH, Exchange Clerk. 

JANE A. TURNER, Exchange Clerk. 

MAGGIE E. GRIFFIN, Recording Clerk. 

SOLOMON G. BROWN, Transportation Clei-h 



Assistants in the National Museum. 

F. M. Endlicii, Mineralogist. 
Egbert Eidgway, Omitliolofjkt 

G. B. GooDE, Zoologist, 
Joseph Palmer, Taxidermist. 
T. W. Smillie, Plwtographer, 
Joseph Herron, Janitor. 



Resident Collaborators. 

Dr. Theodore Gill, General Zoology. 

Prof. F. B. Meek, Invertebrate PaJceontology. 

Dr. E. COUES, Mammalogy and Ornithology. 

W. H. Dall, Malacology. 

Prof. O. T. Mason, Ethnology. 

Prof. Edward Forebian, Ethnology. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, PROFESSOR HENRY, FOR THE 

YEAR 1874. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : I have again the honor to present to you another an- 
nual report of the operations and condition of the Institution which the 
Congress of the United States has pUiced under your charge. During 
the period embraced in this report, that of the year 1874, nothing has 
happened to interfere with the prosecution of the plans which have been 
adopted for " the increase and diffusion of linowledge among men." 
The Institution, having now existed upward of twenty-five years, has 
established a character and reputation in the eyes of the world, the 
tradition of which will tend to perpetuate the same policy, with only 
such improvements as experience may suggest, notwithstanding the 
changes to which the pcrsomiel of the administration may from time to 
time be subjected. 

The following changes have taken place in the Board of Regents 
during the year : Chief- Justice Waite has been elected Chancellor of 
the Institution, in place of Chief-Justice Chase, deceased. Prof. Asa 
Gray has been elected Regent by Congress in place of Prof. L. Agassiz; 
Prof. J. D. Dana, in place of Professor Woolsey ; Prof. H. Coppee, in 
place of William B. Astor; Hon. A. A. Sargent, in place of Hon. Mr. 
Trumbull ; Hon. E. R. Hoar, in place of Hon. James A. Garfield ; Hon. 
G. W. Hazelton, in place of Hon. L. P. Poland ; and Hon. George 
Bancroft, in place of General Sherman. The change in the govern- 
ment of the District leaves vacant, for the present, the position of 
Regent occupied by the governor of the District. 

The resignation of General Sherman, on account of his change of res- 
idence to Saint Louis, Mo., leaves a vacancy in the executive. committee. 
It gives me pleasure to present to the board, as an expression of his 
feelings toward the Institution, the accompanying letter.* It is proper 
to mention in this connection that during the interval between the 
death of Chief-Justice Chase and the appointment of his successor, 
Mr. Justice Cliflbrd, of the Supreme Court, presided as Chancellor of the 
board, and with the Secretary signed the requisition for drawing the 
semi-annual interest from the Treasury of the United States on the 1st 
of January, 1874. 

Since the establishment of the Institution several different bequests 
have been made, intended to increase its usefulness ; but from none of 
these has anything as yet been realized, except from that of Jaimes 
Hamilton, Esq., of Carlisle, Pa., who bequeathed one thousand dollars 

* See proceediugs of the Board of Kegeuts. 



8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

to the Board of Regents of the Smithsouian lustitution, the interest to 
be a]>propiiated biennially for a contribution, paper, or lecture, on a 
scientitic or useful subject. The money from this bequest has been 
received and placed in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance 
with the law of Congress authorizing- the Secretary of the Treasury to 
receive any money which the Board of Regents may obtain from gifts, 
or savings of income, on the same terms as those of the original bequest. 
The tirst instalment of interest of the Ilamiltou bequest has just been 
received, and will be appropriated in accordance with the will of the tes- 
tator at the end of next year, and so on continually at the end of every 
two years. A statement of the manner of expending this income will 
be given iu the accounts of the operations of the Institution, with due 
credit to the donor. His name will therefore appear from time to time 
iu the annual reports, and tbus be kept in perpetual remembrance. 

When the public shall become more familiar with the manner iu 
which the income of the additional bequests to the Smithson fund is ex- 
pended, with the permanence and security of the investment, and with 
the means thus afforded of advancing science, and of perpetuating the 
names of the testators, we doubt not that additions to the fund in this 
way will be made until it reaches the limit prescribed by law of one 
million dollars. 

Since the establishment of the Institution great change has taken 
place in the public mind as to the appreciation of the importance of ab- 
stract science as an element in the advance of modern civilization. At 
the time the bequest of Smithson was made the distinction between 
original research and educational instruction in science and literature 
was scarcely recognized. As an evidence of this it may be stated that, 
in answer to a circular-letter addressed to a number of the most dis- 
tinguished writers iu this country, asking what should be done with a 
fund intended to increase and diffuse knowledge among men, the unan- 
imous rej>ly was, " Establish a national university;" the idea of a uni- 
versity being at that time an institution simply intended to drill youth 
in the ancient classics, in the elements of mathematics and physical and 
moral science. The idea of an institution intended for the higher 
object of increasing knowledge, or enlarging the bounds of human 
thought by original research, had not dawned at that time upon the 
mind of the general public, and the plan proposed for realizing this 
idea was violently opposed by some of the most intelligent and influ- 
ential men of the country. Ha[)pily, since then a great change has 
been effected both in this country and in Europe, and to effect this 
change the persistent policy of the Institution has contributed in no 
inconsiderable degree. The plan.a(loi)ted of applying the income as 
far as possible to the promotion of original research and the distribu- 
tion of a knowledge of the results through its publications, has received 
the aiipru\ al of the civilized world. The Congress of the United States 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

has fully signified its appreciation of the plan adopted, by relieving the 
Institution from the support of a library and the irrational Museum. 

Congress having made an appropriation of $20,000 for the support of 
the National Museum, almost the entire income of the Smithson bequest 
has been left free to carry on what is now considered the legitimate 
operations of the Institution. It was thought, however, desirable to re- 
tain a part of the income in order to make up the loss of last year, oc- 
casioned by the failure of the First National Bank of Washington. The 
whole amount of deposit in this bank at the time mentioned was 
$8,224.87. On this the Institution has received 50 per cent., in two pay- 
ments, leaving a balance of $4,112.43. Toward making up this loss, the 
expenditure during the year has been less than the receipts by $3,683.31. 
The funds of the Institution are therefore in a favorable condition, as 
may be seen by the exhibit hereafter to be presented. 

FINANCES. 

The following is a statement of the condition of the funds at Hie beginning 

of the year 1875 : 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States in accordance with the act of Congress of 
August 10, 1846 $515,169 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos- 
ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance 
with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 26, 210 63 

Total bequest of Smithson 541, 379 63 

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, 
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867, de- 
rived from savings of income and increase in value of 

investments 108, 620 37 

Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of 

Carlisle, Pa., February 24, 1874 1, 000 00 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of 
the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., 

payable semi-annually in gold 651, 000 00 

In addition to the above tliere remains of the extra fund 
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and ccrtiflcates, 
viz : consolidated bonds, $58,700 ; deferred certificates, 
$29,375.07; fractional certificate, $50.13; total $88,125.20, 

now valued at 35, 000 00 

Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning 

of the year 1875 for current expenses 15, 909 99 

Amount due from First National Bank, Washington, 
$4,112.43, (present value unknown.) 

Total Smithson funds January, 1875 $701, 909 99 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Ou comparing this statement with that made last January, it appears 
that the total amount of the fund has been increased during the year 
$0,083.31, viz : 

By the Hamilton bequest $1, 000 00 

By the increased vahie of Virginia stock L*, 000 00 

By bakince of unexpended annual income 3, 083 31 



S6, 683 31 



The Board of Regents and the Secretary will in future be relieved of 
all anxiety as to the safety of the semi-annual interest by the arrange- 
ment Avhich has been made with the United States Treasurer to receive 
it as a deposit, and to make payments from it on checks of the Secre- 
tary, in the same manner as has been done heretofore iu the First Na- 
tional Bank. 

The Institution is indebted to General Spinner for bis prompt acqui- 
escence in the proposition and for immediately carrying it out iu all the 
details necessary to facilitate its operation. 

Congress, at its last session, made an appropriation of $20,000 for the 
care and preservation of the specimens in the museum, and $10,000 for 
fitting up apartments iu which the specimens are exhibited. 

The uncollected coupons ou the Virginia bonds held by the Institu- 
tion were sold on the 9th of May, 187-1, by Biggs & Co., with the fol- 
lowing result : 

$1,200 Virginia coupons at 77i . $925 50 

82,322 Virginia coupons at 77 1, 787 94 

2, 713 44 
Less charges 17 01 



$2, 695 83 
This amount was deposited with the Treasurer of the United States 
to the credit of the account of the current expenses of the Institution for 
the year. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

Since the reports of the Institution are separately distributed to many 
persons who have not ready access to the whole series, it is necessary 
in each succeeding one to repeat certain facts which may serve to give 
an idea of the general organization of the establishment. The following 
statement is therefore repeated : 

The publications of the Institution are of three classes, viz, the Con- 
tributions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and 
the Annual Reports. The first consist of memoirs containing positive 
additions to science resting on original research, and which are gener- 
ally the result of investigations to which the Institution has, in some 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

■^ay, rendered assistance. The Miscellaneous Collections are composed 
of works intended to facilitate the study of branches of natural history, 
meteorology, &c., and are designed especially to induce individuals to 
engage in these studies as specialties. The Annual Reports, besides an 
account of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institu- 
tion, contain translations from works not generally accessible to Amer- 
ican students, reports of lectures, extracts from correspondence, &c. 

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu- 
tion of the several publications of the Institution: 

1st. They are presented to learned societies of the first class which in 
return give complete series of their publications to the Institution. 

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata- 
logues and other publications, or an equivalent from their duplicate 
volumes. 

3d. To colleges of the first class which furnish catalogues of their 
libraries and of their students, and all other publications relative to 
their organization and history. 

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of 
all documents published under their authority. 

5th. To public libraries in this country, containing 15,000 volumes, 
especially if no other copies are given in the same place ; and to smaller 
libraries where a large district would be otherwise unsupx>lied. 

Gth. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particu- 
lar branches of knowledge are given such Smithsonian publications us 
relate to their respective objects. 

7th. The Annual Eeports are presented to the meteorological ob- 
servers, to contributors of valuable material to the library or collections, 
and to persons engaged in special scientific research. 

The distribution of the publications of the Institution is a matter 
which requires much care and judicious selection, the great object being 
to make known to the world the truths which may result from the ex- 
penditure of the Smithson fund. For this purpose the principal class 
of publications, namely, the Contributions, must be so distributed as to 
be accessible to the greatest number of readers, and this will evidently 
be to large central libraries. 

The volumes of Contributions are presented on the express condition 
that, while they are carefully preserved, they shall be accessible at all 
times to students and others who may desire to consult them, and be 
returned to the Institution in case the establishments to which they are 
presented at any time cease to exist. These works, it must be recol- 
lected, are not of a popular character, but require profound study to 
fully understand them; they are, however, of importance to the pro- 
fessional teacher and the popular expounder of science. They contain 

materials from which general treatises oh special subjects may be elabo- 
rated. 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Full sets of the publications cannot be given to all who apply for them, 
since this is impossible with the limited income of the Institution ; and, 
indeed, if care be not exercised in the distribution, so large a ])ortion of 
the income would be annually expended on the production of c()j)ies for 
distribution of what has already been published, that nothing further 
could be done in the way of uew publications. It must be recollected that 
every addition to the list of distribution not only involves the giving of 
l)ublications that have already been made, but also those which are to 
be made hereafter. 

At the commencement of the operations of the Institution the publi- 
cations were not stereotyped, and consequently the earlier volumes have 
now become scarce, especially the^rs^, of which there are now no copies 
for distiibution, although it can occasionally be obtained at a second- 
hand book-store in one of the larger cities. 

No copyright has ever been secured on any of the publications of the 
Institution. They are left free to be used by compilers of books, with 
the understanding, however, that full credit will be given to the name 
of Smithsou for any extracts which may be mr.de from them. This 
condition is especially insisted on, because the credit thus required is 
important as evidence to the world of the proper management of the 
Smithson fund. In many cases credit is given merely to the anthor 
without mentioning the name of the Institution; this is not just, since, 
as a general rule, the income of the establishment is applied not only to 
tlK? publication of the article but also to assist in its production. 

Pnhlications in 1874. — During the past year the nineteenth volume of 
the quarto series of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has 
been ]Hiblished. It contains the following papers: 

1. Problems of Eotary Motion presented by the Gyroscope, the Pre- 
cession of the Equinoxes, and the Pendulum. By Brevet Maj. Gen. J. 
G. Barnard. 4to., pp. 74. 

2. A Contribution to the History of the Fresh- Water Algae of North 
America. By Horatio C. Wood, jr., M. D., professor of botany and 
clinical lecturer on diseases of the nervous system in the University of 
Pennsylvania. 4to., pp. 274, 21 colored plates. 

3. An Investigation of the Orbit of Uranus, with General Tables on its 
Motion. By Simon Newcomb, professor of mathematics, United States 
Navy. 4to., pp. 290. 

This volume, of wlii<;h the several memoirs have been described in 
previous reports, will not only sustain, but increase the reputation of 
the Institution for its contributions to the science of the day. The me- 
moirs which it contains have been received with manifest interest by 
the scientific world, and recognized as positive additions to knowledge 
resting on original investigation. 

Besides the nineteenth volume of the Contributions to Knowledge, 
the eleventh and ticclfth volumes of Miscellaneous Collections have been 
published during the yeiir. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

The eleventh volume of Miscellaneous Collections consists of 789 
octavo pages, and contains the following articles : 

1. Arrangement of the Families of Mammals, with Analytical Tables. 
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by Theodore Gill, M. D., Ph. D., 
pp. 104. 

2. Arrangement of the Families of Fishes, or classes Pisces, Marsipo- 
branchii, and Leptocardii. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by 
Theodore Gill, M. D., Ph. D., pp. 96. 

3. Monographs of the Diptera of North America; Part III, Ortalidoe 
Family. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by H. Loew ; four 
plates, pp. 376. 

4. Directions for collecting and preserving Insects. Prepared for the 
use of the Smithsonian Institution by A. S. Packard, jr., M. D., pp. 60. 

5. New Species of North American Coleoiitera. Prepared for the 
Smithsonian Institution by John L. LeConte, M. D. ; Part II, i)p. 74. 

6. Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for 
the Smithsonian Institution by John L. LeConte, M. D., pp. 72. 

The tiveJftli volume of Miscellaneous Collections consists of 767 octavo 
pages, and contains the following articles : 

1. Review of American Birds, in the Museum of the Smithsonian 
Institution ; Part I. By S. F. Baird, 1864-1872, pp. 484. 

2. The Constants of Nature 5 Part I. Specific Gravities ; Boiling and 
Melting Points; and Chemical Formuljie. Compiled by F. Wigglesworth 
Clarke, S. B. December, 1873, pp. 272. 

3. Kules for the Telegraphic Announcements of Astronomical Discov- 
eries. By Prof. Joseph Henry. April, 1873, pp. 4. 

Since the publication of the 19th volume of Smithsonian Contributions, 
a memoir, of 32 quarto pages, has been printed and distributed, which 
will form part of the 20th volume. This is by Prof S. Newcomb, of the 
National Observatory, Washington, on the " General Integrals of Plan- 
etary jVIotiou" — an abstruse mathematical work, of which the nature is 
indicated in its title. It gives a series of suggestions and new investi- 
gations relative to the methods of determining the motions of celestial 
bodies as affected by interplanetary perturbations. It is in part an ex- 
tension and generalization of two former papers by the same author, 
the first published in Liouville's Journal, vol. XVI, 1871, and the second 
in the Comptes-Rendus, vol. LXXV. It was submitted to Prof. H. A. 
Newton, of Yale College, and Mr. G. W. Hill, of Nyack, N. Y., for criti- 
cal examination, and received their unqualified approval for publication 
in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

Another paper, intended for the twentieth volume of Contributions, 
which has been printed and distributed during the past year, is by 
James G. Swan, on the Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte Islands. 
It consists of 18 quarto pages, and is illustrated with five plain and two 
colored plates, to represent the carved posts or pillars raised in front of 
the houses of the chiefs, and various tattoo designs copied from the 



14 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

bodies of tlie Indians. This i)aper was described in the last report. It 
may, however, be here mentioned that it is of special interest in connec- 
tion with the large number of ethnological specimens received during 
the past year from the northwest coast. 

Another work published during the year is the third of the Toner- 
lecture series. It is by Dr. J. M. DaCosta, of Philadelphia, on the strain 
and over-action of the heart, and forms 32 octavo pages, illustrated by two 
woodcuts. These lectures, as has been stated in previous reports, have 
been instituted at Washington by Dr. Joseph M. Toner, and are confined 
to such memoirs or essays relative to medical science as contain some 
new truth fully established by experiment or observation. It is proper 
to remark that of this course of lectures only two have been published, 
the first and the third, the author having not yet furnished the manu- 
script of the second. To defray, in part at least, the cost of printing 
these lectures, it has been thought advisable to charge for them 25 cents 
a copy to individuals who have no special claim on the Institution by 
having contributed meteorological observations or additions to the col- 
lections. 

Another work printed during the year is a list of the publications of 
the Institution to July, 1874, exhibiting 297 distinct articles, arranged 
first numerically, and secondly in regard to the subjects as given in the 
titles. It forms an octavo of 26 pages. An edition of 2,500 copies of 
this work was furnished to the "Publishers' Trade List Annual" for 
1874, (New York, October, 1874,) and through this medium the list of 
publications of the Institution will become known to all booksellers and 
librarians in the United States. 

An edition of 250 copies of tables selected from the volume of Physi- 
cal and Meteorological Tables, prepared and published some years since 
at the expense of the Institution, has been printed for the use of the 
Argentine Meteorological Observatory at Cordoba, under the direction 
of our distinguished countryman, Dr. B. A. Gould. 

FuhUcations in the press: 1. The Antiquities of Tennessee, by Dr. 
Joseph Jones, of which an account was given in the last report. Of 
this the wood-cuts have been jirepared, and it is expected that the 
printing will be finished in the course of the present year. 

2. A Memoir on the Harmonies of the Solar System, by Prof. Stephen 
Alexander, of the College of New Jersey. 

In this communication the author divides his subject into three sections. 
Section I begins with the statement that Kepler's third law is ordinarily 
expressed by saying that the squares of the periodic times of the sev- 
eral planets of the solar system are to one another, respectively, as the 
cubes of their distances from the sun ; but from this we do not learn 
that there are any laws determining the ratios of the distances them- 
selves, and it is one of the main objects of the pres'ent discussion to 
show that such laws exist, and precisely what they are; generality and 
precision being characteristics of every law of nature. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

The author discusses anew the expressed values of the distances in 
question, in view of the fact that Kepler's third law is itself slightly 
modified by the consideration due to the masses of the revolving bodies. 
After an exhibition and discussion of the appropriate formula, the 
author arranges the results iu the form of a table; in which the results 
thus shown are respectively consistent with two values of the solar 
parallax, viz. Professor Newcomb's value, - = 8".848, and that which 
others prefer, tt = 8".78. 

Section II exhibits the laws of arrangement of the distances, both of 
planets and their satellites, from their resijective centers of attraction, 
without the introduction in the same connection of any physical hy- 
I)othesis on which those laws seem to be founded or of which they are 
the exponents. 

From a comparison of the several distances of the planets, taking five- 
ninths of the distance of jSTeptuue from the center of attraction and five- 
ninths of this product, &c., he finds among the several terms of the 
geometrical series thus formed, those which represent the relative dis- 
tance of Saturn and Jupiter, also a position among the asteroids and 
those which represent the distance of Mars, and of Mercury in aphelion. 
There are, however, in the geometrical series just mentioned, terms 
which do not find their correspondences in the series of distances of the 
planets, but which the author very ingeniously supplies by attributing 
to certain of the planets the characteristic of half planets, the term 
pertaining to them being indicative of the distance between the two 
planets at which their masses would be united. 

Section III exhibits an explanation of the phenomena founded on the 
nebular hypothesis of La Place, which seems to reconcile and account 
for the laws in question as well as a number of other phenomena. 

Approximation to these laws have, from time to time, been exhibited 
by the author of this paper to the American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science at several of its meetings, beginning with that at 
New Haven, iu 1850 ; but it is only within the past few months that the 
entire form and consistency of the results have been quite fully made out. 
The principal part of the memoir was read before the National Acad- 
emy of Sciences at its meeting in Ajiril, 1873, and some additional por- 
tions of the same at the meeting in April, 1874. In accordance with 
usage in such cases, the work was accepted for publication iu the. 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

3. The Winds of the Globe, by the late Prof. J. H. CofSn, prepared at 
the expense of the Institution, relative to which further information will 
be given under the head of meteorology. Of this, 250 quarto pages 
have been stereotyped, and the whole work, which will form an entire 
volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, will be published 
during the year 1875. 

4. The Temperature-Tables of the North American Continent, prepared 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

at tlio expense of tbe Institution, under the direction of Mr. C. A. Schott. 
Oi" this, 100 pages have been stereotyped. 

Of the octavo publications there are in press : 

1. The monograph on the American Vespidcc or wasps, by Professor 
de Saussure, of Geneva. Of this a full account was given in the last 
report. The rapidity of printing in this case is diminished by tbe neces- 
sity of sending the proof-sheets to Switzerland. Tbe work has been 
stereotyped as far as the 236th page, and we trust will be completed in 
the course of a few months. 

Tbe Botanical Index, of which a notice was given in the Eeport for 
1870, has been commenced, and 72 pages printed. This work is a com- 
plete index to all the species of plants of North America, with their 
synonyms, and all descriptions and important references to them. It is 
intended to facilitate the labors of working botanists, especially in the 
study of our western plants, tbe search for what has been written in 
regard to them requiring in many cases nearly as much time and labor 
as all tbe rest of their work. 

As a further contribution to the "Constants of Nature" mentioned in 
the last rei)ort, Prof. F. VY. Clarke has furnished an additional series of 
tables of specific heat and of expansion by heat for solids and liquids. 
We have also received from our collaborator. Prof. John L. LeConte, of 
the University of California, a series of constants relative to the weight 
of air, pressure of the atmosphere, length of seconds, i^endulum-velocity 
generated by gravity in a mean solar second of time at various places, 
velocity of sound, &c. It is tbe intention of the Institution to continue 
this work, and to endeavor to enlist other co-laborers in its prosecution. 

RESEARCHES. 

Meteorology. — It was stated in the last report that the meteorological 
system of records by voluntary observers, which bad been in operation 
under the direction of the Institution for about twenty-five years, had 
been transferred to the signal-office of the War Department, under Gen- 
eral A. J. Myer. This transfer was made in accordance with tbe general 
policy of the Institution, namely, that of abandoning any field of enter- 
prise as soon as the work could be done as well through other agencies, 
thus reserving tbe energy of tbe establishment for labors which required 
more aid in their accomplisbment. We think this transfer has received 
tbe ap])robation of observers generally ; who also, while they are now 
co-operating with tbe Signal-Service, still keep up their correspondence 
with tbe Institution on subjects of general scientific interest. The 
labors of the Institution in the line of meteorology are now confined 
to working up tbe material which it has collected during the last 
quarter of a century. Tbe materials, however, are not limited to tbat 
period, but embrace everything tbat could be obtained on the subject 
from the records of i^revious observers. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

The first work of tbis class which has been published is that of the 
the Raiu-fall. It included all the material which had been collected 
down to 18G6. It is now proposed to publish a new edition of this 
work, containing the additions since made, with improved maps, on a 
larger scale. 

The next work of the same class is that on the Winds of the Globe, 
comprising the result of the discussion of not only the observations 
made under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution in the United 
States, but of those of every other part of the world of which the records 
were attainable. This work, to which the labors of Prof. J. H. Coffin, of 
Lafayette College, were for many years devoted, was nearly completed 
at the time of his death, has been continued by his son, Prof Selden 
J. Coffin, and is now in the press. Very little, however, was done by 
the elder Coffin in the way of stating, in general propositions, the results 
contained in the large number of tables which he had elaborated. To 
supply this deficiency the Institution has fortunately been enabled to 
avail itself of the assistance of Dr. A. Woeikof, member of the Geo- 
graphical Society of Russia, and late secretary of its meteorological 
commission, who, visiting this country for the study of its climatology, 
cheerfully undertook the required task. 

The printing of this work is very expensive. It will occupy an entire 
volume of the Smithsonian Contributions, and comprise upward of 600 
quarto pages of tabular matter, besides the letter-ijress. It will, how- 
ever, we are confident, form a contribution to knowledge which will 
be a lasting monument to the industry of Professor Coffin and to the 
policy of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The next work of the same class is that on the Temperature of the 
United States. It has been in progress at the expense of the Institu- 
tion for a number of years. It includes the result of the discussion of 
all the observations which have been made in this country from the 
earliest times down to the present. It is illustrated by three maps of 
isothermal spaces — one exhibiting the annual, another the summer, and 
the third the winter distribution of temperature — and a number of 
diagrams incorporated in the text. It has been from the first under 
the direction of Prof. Charles A. Schott, of the Coast Survey, assisted 
by a number of computers, at the expense of the Smithson fund. The 
maps have been drawn and are in the hands of the engraver, and the 
whole work will be printed and distributed during the present year. It 
will form the first trustworthy approximation to an exhibition of the 
temperature of the various portions of the United States which has ever 
been published. The preparation of it hag been more expensive thiin 
any other work ever undertaken by the Institution. 

Another work in progress is that relative to the geographical distri- 
bution in the United States of thunder-storms, the frequency of their 
occurrence in different seasons, and effects produced by discharges of 
lightning, as compiled from all the records of the Institution during 
2 s 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tTrenty-five years. The i^relimi nary labor was the collection and arrange- 
ment of a full list of stations at which thunder-storms have been recorded, 
the number of observations at each place, the time of beginning and 
ending of each storm, and the whole number of thunder-storms occur- 
ring in each year, and during the whole time at each place. From these 
data the relative frequency of thunder-storms in different parts of the 
country can be determined ; also their relative frequency in different 
seasons and years, as well as the extent of the area over which they 
occur on the same day. The attending casualties, collected from all the 
observations made by several hundred observers during a period of 
twenty-five years, when brought together and classified, will strikingly 
illustrate the operations of one of the most energetic agents of nature. 

For the preliminary arrangement of the materials preparatory to 
scientific deductions from them, the Institution has employed Mr. Georg^e 
H. Boehmer. 

Another series of reductions relative to the meteorology of North 
America which will occupy the attention of the Institution is that of 
the discussion of the observations on the barometer in various parts of 
the United States. This will be commenced as soon as the other series 
of investigations are completed. 

Comets. — The first research relative to these I have to mention is that 
relative to a comet of short period or one that returns after a few years. 
Of these, there are at present six known, namely, Encke's, which has a 
period of about 3i years; Winnecke's, of between Sand 6 years; Biela's, 
of 6^ years; Faye's, of 7^ years; Tuttle's, of IS/^ years; and Halley's, of 
about 76 years. 

All the other comets which have entered the solar system have never 
been known to return, their orbits having probably, in many cases, 
been changed by the perturbp^tions of planets in whose vicinity they 
may have passed. 

The motion of the periodical comets is an object of great interest to 
the astronomer, as well as to the general physicist, in its relation to 
the question of the existence of a retarding medium filling interplan- 
etary spaces, and therefore it is considered an object of much importance, 
not only to observe their successive positions at their periodic returns, 
but also to calculate with great precision their orbits as affected by 
planetary perturbations. At a meeting of European astronomers in 
August, 1873, the work of discussing all the observations which have 
been made on four of these comets was parceled out among the conti- 
nental astronomers, Halley's comet having previously received great 
attention from the English and other astronomers ; and the fifth, that 
of Tuttle, discovered by an American astronomer, was left to be worked 
out in this country. This task has been undertaken at the expense of 
the Smithsonian Institution, under the direction of Prof. Ormond Stone, 
late of the National Observatory, and now professor of astronomy in the 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

University of Cincinnati. Professor Stone lias chosen for this work a 
number of assistants, and will proceed with the reduction and discussion 
of the observations made on this comet at its several returns as rajiidly 
as his other labors will permit. 

The perturbations of the first order have been calculated, and the zero 
stars used in determining the place of the comet at the time of its last 
return in 1871 have been re-observed with the Washington meridian 
circle. An accurate determination of the orbit traversed by this comet 
in 1871, as based on the corrected position of these stars, has been in 
part completed. 

In this connection it may be interesting to state that of the one hundred 
and forty* asteroids discovered during this century, forty-two were first 
observed by American astronomers. It is not enough, however, that 
these bodies should be noted as planets, and their positions marked in 
the heavens for a given epoch ; it is also necessary that their orbits 
should be accurately determined, and an ephemeris of each of them cal- 
culated by which its place can be ascertained at any future time. This 
work, however, is one, as it were, of approximation, and must be con- 
tmued through a series of revolutions of each planet. In regard to the 
asteroids discovered in Europe, the investigation of them is under the 
charge of European astronomers ; while for the investigation of those 
discovered in America, Congress has made an appropriation for the last 
three years, to be expended under the direction of Professor Coffin, 
director of the American Nautical Almanac. 

Efficiency of steam-heaters. — Another investigation, at the partial ex- 
pense of the Smithsonian Institution, has been undertaken under the 
direction of General W. B. Franklin, late of the United States Army, 
at the Colt's Fire-Arms Manufacturing Company, Hartford, Conn., by 
Mr. C. B. Eichards, of which the following is an account: 

The experiments which are proposed will be in continuation of two 
series already made, to ascertain the relative efficiency of the different 
kinds of steam-heaters used for warming buildings, and to determine 
also the laws of their operation. The first series related to what are 
known as " direct radiators," and in these the heaters were exposed in a 
large room whose temperature could be changed and regulated as desired. 
In the second series the heaters were of the kind called " indirect radi- 
ators," and were inclosed in a flue through which currents of air were 
passed. The initial and final temperatures, the barometric pressure, 
and the moisture of the air were noted, and the quantity passed through 
the flue was measured by a Casella meter. 

In both serie-s the pressure of the steam was measured by an accurate 
mercury columH, and its temperature was noted, while the heating eifect 
of the heater was calculated from data obtained by collecting, cooling, 
and weighing the water of condensation obtained from the steam which 
was passed through the heater. 

* Since the above was writteu two additional asteroids have been discovered. 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Verj' satisfactory aud consistent results were arrived at from the first 
series. But in the second series, the cost of the apparatus, the many 
different circumstances which it was necessary to take into account, 
the conse(iueut greater care and time required in the investigation, and 
a hick of money with which to pursue the inquiry to the proper point, 
IJrevented the establishment of trustworthy data. 

The importance of deciding the questions which it is the specific ob- 
ject of these experiments to answer need not be urged. There is, how- 
ever, one interesting circumstance which, among others, was observed, 
and which may be of importance outside the principal question. This 
relates to the determination of the condition of the steam as regards 
its dryness when it entered the heating apparatus; and, as a small 
quantity of steam was occasionally' allowed to escape after it had passed 
through the heater, (in order to carry off air,) it was also desirable to 
ascertain whether any very considerable amount of water, in the condi- 
tion of mist, was carried away by this escaping steam. 

Hiru's metliod was employed in these determinations. Although the 
apparatus for this purpose was crude, and for precise experiments would 
require to be much improved, the experiments seemed to indicate clearly 
that the steam was nearly if not quite as dry, after passing over the 
condensing surface of the heater, as before ; that is to say, its " misti- 
ness " was not increased by its passage over a large extent of condensing 
surface. These results, if fully verified by a longer series of experi- 
ments with better apparatus, would indicate that there is a fallacy in 
the generally-entertained idea that "wet steam" is supplied to an 
engine if the originally dry steam is led through a long pipe. 

The records of the experiments are voluminous, and it is intended to 
tabulate them, and to represent the results by curves when the whole 
are completed. 

Elevations. — It has been mentioned in previous reports that the In- 
stitution has been at considerable expense in collecting the profiles of 
canal, railroad, and other surveys, in order to the construction of a to- 
pographical map of the United States. The charge of this work was 
given to Mr. Nicholson, topographer to the Post-Oflice Department, but, 
owing to the absorbing nature of his official duties, he has been unable 
up to this time to complete it. lu'the mean while Mr. Gardner, of the 
Hayden expedition, has rendered an important service to this investiga- 
tion by settling, through critical comparison of various surveys, the actual 
height of several important places in the interior, which will hereafter 
serve as points of departure for other surveys. 

Natural History and Ethnology. — Various researches have been made 
in natural history and ethnology, the aetual expense of which has 
been defrayed by the Institution, without salary, however, to the person 
in charge of the work ; an account of which will be given in a subse- 
quent part of the report. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 

The Smithsonian system of international exchange still continues to 
render an important service to the advance of civilization, and emphat- 
ically to carry ont the second clause of the will of Smithson for the in- 
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men — that is, mankind. It is 
the medium of exchange of literary and scientific materials between the 
United States and all foreign countries. 

The effect of this system on the diffusion of knowledge can scarcely 
be too highly estimated. Thousands of works, containing the details of 
the latest inventions and discoveries, are through its means annually 
brought to this country, while a knowledge through the same medium 
is disseminated abroad of everything that is doing in the United States 
to promote a higher civilization. 

As an evidence of the high estimation in which this part of the opera- 
tions of the Institution is regarded, we may again mention that the 
Smithsonian packages are passed through all the custom-houses of the 
world free of duty and without examination, and, moreover, that they 
are transmitted free of cost by the principal transportation companies, 
namely : 



Hamburg American Packet Com- 
pany. 

French Transatlantic Company. 

Xorth Baltic Lloyd Steamship 
Company. 

Inman Steamship Company. 

Cuuard Steamship Company. 

Anchor Steamshij) Company. 



Pacific Mail Steamship Company. 

Panama Railroad Company. 

Pacific Steam I^avigation Com- 
pany. 

New York and Mexico Steamship 
Company. 

New York and Brazil Steamship 
Company. 

North German Lloyd Steamship 
Company. 

The special thanks of the Institution are again due to the above-men- 
tioned companies for their enlightened liberality. 

The following are the foreign centers of reception and distribution of 
the Smithsonian exchanges : 

Loudon — Agent, William Wesley, 28 Essex street. Strand. 

Paris — G. Bossange, IG rue du 4 Septembre. 

Leipsic — Dr. Felix Fliigel, 12 Sidonien Strasse. 

St. Petersburg — L. Watkins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place. 

Amsterdam — F. Miiller. 

Milan — U. Hoepli, 591 Galeria Cristoforia. 

Harlem — Prof. Baumhauer. 

Christiana — Eoyal University of Norway. 

Stockholm — Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. 

Copenhagen — Royal Danish Society. 

The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments 
with which the Institution is at present in correspoudeuce, or, in other 
words, to which it sends publications and from which it receives others 
in ccturn : 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY." 

Numher of ForeUjn Corresponding Institutions. 



Belgium 110 

France 274 

Italy 169 

Portugal 20 

Spain 12 

Great Britain and Ireland 357 

South America 40 

West Indies 7 

Mexico 10 

Central America 1 

British America 27 

General 5 



Total 2,146 



Sweden 20 

Norway 24 

Iceland 2 

Denmark 27 

Russia 160 

Holland 65 

Germany 622 

Greece 7 

Turkey 11 

Africa 23 

Asia i..- 42 

Australia 27 

New Zealand 13 

Polynesia 2 

Switzerland 69 

The table in itself is interesting as indicating the relative attention 
given to literature and science at the present day in the diii'erent coun- 
tries of the world. 

During the past year 4,326 packages, each containing several articles, 
have been received from abroad for distribution to institutions and 
individuals in this country. 

One hundred and forty-one boxes, averaging 7 cubic feet each, with a 
total weight of 29,000 pounds, were sent abroad by the Institution dur- 
ing the year, viz : To Germany, 40 ; England, 30 ; Sweden, 5 ; ]!Norway, 
3; Denmark and Iceland, 4; France, 11; Russia, 7; Holland, 5; Bel- 
gium, 5; Australia, 11 ; Italy, 3; Cuba, 2; Brazil, 3; Liberia, 1 ; Egypt, 
i ; Canada, 10. 

The total nuqiber of separate parcels contained in these boxes was 
about 10,000. 

To facilitate the business of the exchanges, the following rules have 
been adopted : 

1. Every package, without exception, must be enveloped in strong 
paper, and secured so as to bear separate transportation by express or 
otherwise. 

2. The address of the institution or individual, for whom the package 
is intended, must be written legibly on the cover, and the name of the 
sender on one corner of the same. 

3. No single package must exceed the half of a cubic foot in bulk. 

4. A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their con- 
tents, must accompany them. 

5. No letter or other communication can be allowed in the parcel, 
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package. 

6. All packages must be delivered in Washington free of freight and 
other expenses. 

7. Every parcel should contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed 
and returned, either through the agent of the Institution, or, what is 
still better, through the mail, to the sender. Should exchanges be de- 
sired for what is sent, the fact should be explicitly stated on the list of 
the contents of the package. Much disappointment is frequently ex- 
pressed at the absence of any return in kind for transmissions ; bat un- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

less these are specifically asked for they will fail in many instances to 
be made. It will facilitate the labors of the Institution very greatly if 
the number corresponding to the several addresses in the Smithsonian 
printed catalogue* be marked on the face of each parcel ; and for this 
purpose a copy of the catalogue will be forwarded to all who apply for it. 

Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission un- 
less with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk. 

8. Unless all these conditions are complied with the parcels will not 
be forwarded from the Institution ; and, on the failure to comply with 
the first and second conditions, will be returned to the sender for cor- 
rection. 

The operations of the system of exchange have increased from year 
to year, and notwithstanding the liberal assistance received from trans- 
portation companies, it now absorbs nearly a seventh part of the entire 
Income of the establishment. In order to improve its efficiency and the 
frequency of transmission of packages, a larger proportion of the income 
will be required. In view of these facts, the Secretary at the last session 
of the Board of Eegents was authorized to receive aid from societies 
and individuals in defraying the heavy expense of this part of the oper- 
ations of the Institution. 

Miss Jane Turner, sister of the late Prof. W. W. Turner, the well- 
known philologist, continues to have charge of receiving and cata- 
loguing the exchanges intended for the library of the Institution, and of 
distributing those for other parties. 

The receiving, packing, and shipping of the packages from different 
parts of the United States intended for foreign countries, is under the 
charge of Mr. H. Diebitsch. 

LIBRARY. 

In 1866, the library of the Institution was incorporated with that 
of Congress. This arrangement is still continued, and is beneficial to 
both establishments. The Smithson fund is relieved from the mainte- 
nance of a separate library, while at the same time the Institution 
has the use not only of its own books but of those of the Library of Con- 
gress. On the other hand, the Library of Congress is enriched by an 
entire department, that of books relating to modern science. 

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received 
by exchange in 1874: 

Volumes : 

Octavo, or less ..... 057 

Quarto, or larger 206 



863 



^ Miscellaneous Collections, No. 243. 



24 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Parts of volumes : . 

Octavo, or less 1, 607 

Quaito, or larger, 1, 359 

2,966 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo, or less ■ 1, 962 

Quarto, or larger - - 593 

1, 555 

Maps aud charts 162 

Total receipts 5, 5i6 

Among the principal donations received in 1874, are the following : 

From the Company of Public WorliS of the Mediterranean ; " Bassius 
de Eadoub de Marseille. Notice sur Fexecution des travaux," with au 
atlas of 40 plates, (2 copies.) 

From the Argentine Confederation : " Description g^ographique et 
statistique de la Confederation Argentine, par V. deMoussy," vols, i-iii, 
with folio atlas. 

From the National Hungarian Museum, Buda-Pesth: "Monuments 
6pigraphiques du j\Ius6e National Hougrois, dessines ])dv Ernest Des- 
jardins," 1 vol., folio, Buda-Pesth, 1873. 

From the Imperial Archaeological Commission, St. Petersburg: 
" Compte-rendu de la Commission Imp^riale Archeologique," for 1870 aud 
1871, with folio atlas. 

From the Icelandic Literary Society, "Eeykjavik Skirnir," 1874: 
" Skyrsla um Forugripasafu Islands i Reykjavik," vols, i, ii, 1863-1870. 
Copenhagen, 1868, 1874. " Fyettir fra Islandi," 1873. Eeykjavik, 
1874, 8vo. 

From the Universities of Berlin, Bonn, Erlangen, Freiberg, Gottin- 
gen, Greifswald, Halle, Jena, Leipzig, Marburg, Eostock, WUrzburg, 
Basel, Bern, and Zurich : Inaugural Dissertations for 1873. 

From the Hydrographic Department of the Ministry of Marine, St. 
Petersburg; 23 charts, 10 volumes, and 6 pamphlets. 

From the Veterinary School, Dorpat, 48 pamphlets. 

From the British Museum, London, " Catalogue of Greek Coins, 
Italy," 1873, 8vo.; " Catalogue of Eoman Coins in the British Museum, 
Eoman Medallions," 1874, 4to.; " Catalogue of Prints aud Drawings," 
Division I. " Political and Political Satires," vol. ii., 1869-1873, 8vo.; 
" Fac-similes of Ancient Characters," 1873, folio ; " Catalogue of Birds," 
vol. i, 1874, 8vo.; " Hand-List of Seals, Morses, Sea-Lions, etc.," 1874, 8vo.; 
t' Hemiptera, Heteroptera," vol. viii, 1873, 8vo.; and various guide- 
books. 

From the Board of Admiralty, Loudon, 28 charts i)ublished by the 
Hydrographic Office, from January, 1873, to January, 1874; "The 
China Sea Directory," vol. iv ; "The Mediterranean Pilot," vol. i; 
"Eed Sea Pilot," 1873; " Tide-Tables," 1874 j "Nautical Almanac for 
1878 f and 10 lists of lights. 



REPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 25 

From the Overijssel Society for the Promotion of Provincial Welfare, 
Zwolle, 8 volumes, 8 parts, and 5 pamphlets. 

From the Eoyal Statistical Bureau, Copenhagen, " Statistisk Tabel- 
voerk," vols, xx-xxvi, (2 copies ;) " Sammendrag," etc., 10 parts. 

From Messrs. Eobert and Alexander Stuart, 'New York, " Anti-Nicene 
Christian Library ; Translations of the Writings of the Fathers down 
to A. D. 325," 24 volumes. 

From the Ministry of Agriculture, Industry, and Commerce, Rome, 
10 volumes and three pamphlets published by the department. 

From the Central Bureau of Statistics, Stockholm, " Bidrug till sver- 
iges officiela Statistik," 22 parts. 

From the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Modena, 27 medical pam- 
phlets. 

From the Norwegian Government, "Norges Officiela Statistik," 1873, 
13 parts, 4to ; and 4 volumes on Korwegiau Statistics. 

From the State library of Virginia, 9 volumes of State documents. 

In addition to the books which have been received, we are indebted 
to Major-General J. H. Lefroy, governor of Bermuda, a special friend 
of the Institution, for a series of manuscripts procured by him during 
a late visit to England, and presented through him by his relative, Mrs. 
Dundas, of Canon Hall, Larbert, N. B. 

The following is a report on these manuscripts by Mr. Spofford, Li- 
brarian of Congress : 

" These original records form a collection of the highest interest and 
value as materials of personal and political history at a period which 
must ever remain the most important era in the aunals of the TJuited 
States. One of the volumes contains twelve reports submitted to the 
lords of Her Majesty's treasury, by John Wilmot, Colonel Dundas, and 
the other commissioners, upon the losses and services of the claimants 
who were loyal to the British crown during the rev^olutionary war, and 
who were afterward indemnified by act of Parliament. Six reports in 
addition, signed by Colonel Dundas and Mr. J. Pemberton, commission- 
ers, and extending from A. D. 1784 to 1789, are also embraced. Thirty- 
four of the manuscript volumes contain a large amount and variety of facts 
and testimony regarding the landed possessions and personal property ot 
hundreds of British subjects in the New England States, as well as in 
New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, etc. As most of these papers 
have never been published, they are the more valuable and original and 
unique repositories of information regarding the persons to whom they 
relate, the descendants of many of whom still survive among the people 
of the United States." 

The edition of the volume of the catalogue of Transactions of Learned 
Societies, originally prepared by the Institution, containing a list of the 
works of this branch of bibliography, deposited in the Library of Con- 
gress, having been exhausted, Mr. Spofford is about to publish a new 
edition containing all the late additions which have been made to the 



26 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



collection. It will also contain, in an appendix, a catalogue of scientific 
periodicals, with the date of publication of each volume, compiled under 
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, by Dr. H. Carrington Bolton, 
of the Columbia College School of Mines, New York. 

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES. 

The important arrangement which was concluded between the Smith- 
sonian Institution and the Atlantic cable companies in 1873, by which 
free telegraphic transmission of astronomical discoveries was granted 
between Europe and America, has been continued during the past year. 
The number of announcements, however, has not been as great as during 
the previous year. 

The following list comprises the asteroids discovered in 1874 : 



No. 



Name. 



Discoverer. 



Date. 



135 
136 
137 
138 
139 
140 



HertLa . 
Austria. 
Meliboea 
Tolosa.. 

Siwa ... 



C. H. F. Peters, at Clinton, N. Y 

M. Palisa, at Pola 

M. Palisa, at Pola 

M. Perrotin, at Toulouse 

J. C. Watson 

M. Palisa, at Pola 



February 18, 1874. 
March 18, 1874. 
April 21, 1874. 
May 19, 1874. 
Oct. 10, 1874. 
Oct. 13, 1874. 



Eight comets have been detected during the past year. 



No. 



Discoverer. 



Date. 



Winnecke, at Strasburg 
Winuecke, at Strasburg 

Coggia, at Marseilles 

Borelly, at Marseilles 

Coggia, at Marseilles 

Borelly, at Marseilles... 



February 20, 1874. 
April 11, 1874. 
April 17, 1874. 
July 25, 1874. 
August 19, 1874. 
December 6, 1674. 



These comets, except No. 3, were strictly telescopic. 

The number of amateur astronomers in the United States who are pro- 
vided with telescopes of sufficient power to detect minute heavenly 
bodies is every year increasing, and the discovery of new comets and 
asteroids offers an interesting field for their cultivation. The plan 
adopted by Professor Watson, of Ann Arbor, furnishes a definite 
means for the discovery of asteroids. It consists in studying with great 
minuteness a narrow band in the heavens, of two or three degrees in 
width, extending at right angles to the ecliptic, twenty degrees or 
more on each side. At some time in the revolution of an asteroid 
around the sun it must pass through this band, and, if each fixed 
star in this circumscribed space be accurately mapped and its relative 
place be made familiar to the observer, any new object which presents 
itself within this area may be readily detected. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

For many years after the Institution took charge of the National 
Museum only $4,000 was allowed by Congress for the annual expense on 
account of this duty. In 1871 the appropriation for this purpose was 
increased to $10,000, and in 1872 to $15,000, and for the last year to 
$20,000; the last-mentioned sum being sufiBcient for the present to 
defray the annual expense without encroachment on the income of the 
Smithsou fund, nothing being charged on account of rent of the build- 
ing. In addition to this, $10,000 was appropriated for the completion 
of the cases in the large room of the second story, devoted to ethnology. 
This money was exi)ended in procuring cases in the form of tables with 
glass tops and sides for the exhibition of smaller articles. 

The following report from Professor Baird gives an account of the 
additions to the museum and the various operations connected with it 
during the past year: 

Increase of the National Museum. 

As in previous years, nearly every region in North America, and a 
considerable number of localities in Central and South America, as well 
as in other parts of the world, have been represented in the collections 
of 1874; the following summary showing, in a general way, the more 
important of the acquisitions from a geograpliical point of view : 

From Greenland has been received a collection of articles of Esqui- 
maux dress and other interesting curiosities, including the skeleton of 
a polar bear. 

The arctic main land of North America is represented by perfect 
skins, with the skeletons complete, of adult male and female musk-oxen, 
forming an acquisition that any museum would consider of great im- 
portance. 

Alaska has been richly represented during the year by a good series 
of ethnological material of the Thlinket tribes of Sitka and the adjoin- 
ing region, including a number of the stone implements which are now 
entirely gone out of use and very rare ; also, from the Maglemut Esqui- 
maux of the island of Nnnivak, Behring Sea, a remarkably full series of 
their utensils, weapons, and carvings. This addition, with what had 
previously been obtained, gives to the National Museum a finer collec- 
tion of Western Esquimaux material than exists in all other ethnological 
museums combined. 

A series of dredgings has also been received, made in the Northern 
Ocean, in thevicinity of Kotzebue Sound, and in other portions of Behring 
Sea ; a large collection of birds with their eggs, among them specimens 
of the Sterna aleutica and other rare species, and series of skins and 
skeletons of the fur-seals, &c. 

Queen Charlotte's Island and Washington Territory. — From these we 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

have received ethnological objects, consisting principally of elaborate 
carvings made by the Haidah ludiaus, a race excelling auy other 
aboriginal people on the continent* in the skill and variety of the designs 
which they engrave on bone and wood. 

Oregon is represented very satisfactorily by a series of prehistoric 
remains obtained from shell-heaps. These are of extreme beauty of 
finish, and constitute a highly-prized addition to the ethnological col- 
lections of the Institution. 

California^ as usual, occupies a prominent place in the record of addi- 
tions to the museum, more particularly in the line of archceologj', 
including prehistoric remains from the ijhell-heaps, some of them open- 
ing a new page in American archaeology in the variety and complexity 
of the objects, and in their great beauty of finish. The applications and 
uses of many of them constitute puzzling problems in ethnology. 

From the Pacific coast we have also received specimens of the ceta- 
ceans, and an interesting and valuable collection of eggs. 

Arizona^ Utah, and Colorado are richly illustrated by the specimens 
collected by the various Government exploring expeditions, in all the 
departments of natural history and ethnology. These regions may 
almost be considered as more fully represented in the National Museum 
than any other portion of the continent, with the exception of Alaska. 
A collection of eggs from Arizona challenges competition for beauty of 
preparation and variety of species j also ethnological objects of much 
interest. 

From Montana, specimens of the grayling fishes have been received, 
among which a new species has been described by Mr. Miluer, ThymaUus 
montaniensis ; a collection of birds, and a fine specimen of mule-deer. 

New Mexico is represented principally by specimens of jSTavajo work- 
manship, fossil remains, and minerals in much variety. 

Dalcota. — As in previous years, large collections, especially in natural 
history, have been received from this Territorj', particularly from the 
ofiicers of the Northern Boundarj- Survey. 

Central portion of the United States. — The collections from this region 
have consisted principallj- of crania, stone implements, pottery, worked 
bones, «&c., from Tennessee, Indiana, Illinois. Ohio, Iowa ; minerals and 
rocks from Tennessee ; skins of salmonidai of Lake Superior ; specimens 
of the Michigan grayling, and of the giant snapping-turtle from Louisi- 
ana. 

Eastern jwrtion of the United States. — We have received specimens of 
bone implements and other ethnologica from New York, Pennsylvania, 
and Virginia ; fresh-water and land shells and Otsego bass from New 
York; young California salmon from the Susquehanna lliver; fossil 
ferns and a si>ecimen of the Arkansas fly-catcher from Maryland ; and 
fishes from Virginia. 

Florida is well represented by human crania, shell-heap remains, and 
other ethnological objects, living alligators, fishes, shells, and reptiles j 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

among the latter a specimen of Ulaps distans, a serpent previously un- 
known excepting in Arizona. 

From Newfrnindland we have had a series of stuffed skins of several 
species of seals of different ages. 

From Mexico a collection of reptiles ajid fishes. 

From Cuba a continuation of the complete series of species of fish, 
which the Institution has received from its correspondents oij that 
island. 

Central America^ as usual, has furnished very important collections, 
among them birds and reptiles from the isthmus of Teh uautepeo; speci- 
mens of the musical instruments of the aborigines of Guatemala; poison- 
ous serpents of Nicaragua, and, above all, a series of mammals, birds, 
reptiles, fishes, shells, insects, and ethnology from Costa Rica. 

South America. — The receipts from this part of the western hemi- 
sphere have not been very large, consisting principally of some casts of 
stone implements from ancient mines in Chili, and ethnological objects, 
birds, mammals, and serpents from Brazil, as well as a specimen of sea- 
lion from Patagonia. 

Europe. — The additions of the year consist of marine shells, cretaceous 
fossils from Sweden, and skeleton of the white porpoise from Norway ; 
also models of the common form of weir used in Denmark for the capture 
of fishes ; minerals from Saxony ; highly valuable specimens of crania 
and pottery belonging to the Anglo-Saxon period of British history ; 
prehistoric objects from the celebrated locality of Solutre, among them 
numerous bones of the horse, the remains of which, to the number ol 
many thousands of individuals, have been accumulated in a single de- 
l)Ository. 

Other parts of the icorld. — Among the most noteworthy of the collec- 
tions received are those of fishes, crustaceans, seeds, bulbs, shells, &c., 
from the island of Mauritius; models of dwellings, articles of dress, 
specimens of fishes, crustaceans, corals, &c., &c., from the Samoan 
Islands; and fishes from Kamtscliatha. 

Not the least interesting and important of the collections of the year 
are " squeezes" from Egyptian antiquities, and a perfect copy of the 
Tanis or Canopus stone, from the museum at Boulak, of which a much 
inferior copy was already in possession of the Institution. 

Miscellaneous. — The Navy of the United States has very largely con- 
tributed specimens collected during the voyages of the Portsmouth 
among the Pacific Islands ; of the Narragansett in the Gulf of Califor- 
nia and vicinity, embracing shells, fishes, birds, and ethnology; and of 
the Tuscarora in the Pacific Ocean, between the United States and the 
Sai^dwich Islands and Japan, consisting of the soundings taken while 
selecting a suitable line for a trans-Pacific telegraphic cable. 

Systematic summary. — Having described the principal additions to the 
National Museum in 1874 in geographical order, it may not be amiss^ 



30 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

to refer briefly to them agaiu in their systematic sequence, as likely to 
give a better idea of the actual increase in the scientific value of the col- 
lections. 

Of the various additions received during the year, those which are 
most varied and comprehensive in their nature, and of most importance, 
have been derived from the labors of Mr. W. H. Dall and Mr. H. W. 
Elliott, in Alaska ; of Mr. Archibald Campbell, Major Twining, and Vr. 
E. Coues, of the ISTorthern Boundary Survey, in Dakota; of Mnjor Pow- 
ell, Lieutenant Wheeler, and Dr. Hayden, in Utah, Arizona, and Colo- 
rado ; of the United States steamers Portsmouth and Xarragansett, in 
the Pacific Ocean; of Capt. Nicholas Pike, in the Mauritius; of the 
United States Fish-Commission on the eastern coast of the United 
States ; and of Professor Gabb, in Costa Rica. 

Ethnology. — The Smithsonian Institution has been, for several years 
past, especially interested in extending the ethnological collections of 
the National Museum, desirous that this should embrace as full an illus- 
tration of American archaeology as possible. The results of its eftbrts in 
this direction have been very satisfactory, few days elapsing without 
the receipt of one or more packages of specimens. These collections are 
so numerous, indeed, as to render it impossible to mention them all here ; 
and we can only specify a few, referring to the list of donations for a 
statement in full. 

By far the most important of these collections were those received 
from Alaska and the west coast of America and from Costa Eica, 
already referred to in general terms. The specimens procured by Mr. 
Dall furnish a fall representation of the prehistoric antiquities of the 
islands and the main land of Alaska, as also of many of the objects at 
present in use among the Esquimaux, the Aleutians, &c. Mr. Elliott's 
collections relate more especially to Saint Lawrence Island, Behring Sea, 
a region previously unrepresented in any collection. 

The collections made in Oregon by Mr. A. W. Chase and Mr. Paul 
Schumacher relate to the shell-heap deposits, and are quite unique in 
their character. Still more so are the gatherings made by Mr. Dall and 
Mr. Schumacher from the islands and main land of Southern California. 
The carvings by the Haidah Indians, collected by Mr. J. G. Swan, are of 
great interest and beauty. 

The collections of Doctor Gabb, of both modern and prehistoric 
ethnology in Costa Rica, are of very great extent and of extreme value, 
and are supplemented by a collection of aboriginal musical instruments 
from Guatemala, furnished by Mr. Henry Hague. 

Large numbers of stone implements, pii)es, pottery, &g., have been 
received from the expeditions of Major Powell, Doctor Hayden, and 
Lieutenant Wheeler, from Governor Arny, of New Mexico, and from 
many localities in the interior and in the east, all together forming an 
aggregate of very great extent. Conspicuous among these are speci- 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

mens of bone implements obtained by Mr. Frank H. Cutting in Central 
New York. Mr. J. H. Jenkins, of Northumberland, Pa., has increased 
the extent of his deposits by numerous additional objects. General 
M. C. Meigs, Quartermaster-General United States Army, has furnished 
ethnological specimens from Arizona of much interest. 

Among the articles obtained from the Mississippi Valley is a remark- 
able stone pestle, or muller, from the Rev. Joshua Hailes, senior. This 
is stirrup-shaped, and quite unique in North America; although similarly- 
shaped objects, with the same function, are known in Central America 
and the Sandwich Islands. 

A noteworthy article in this department consists of a specimen of 
ancient cloth from a rock-dwelling near Montezuma Wells, in Arizona, 
presented by Lieut. E. B. Hubbard. Dr. J. F. Snyder, of Illinois, has 
furnished a large number of disk-shaped, chipped stones, of great beauty. 

Of Old World collections we have mentioned a copy of the Tanis or 
Canopus stone, presented by the Khedive of Egypt, and, through General 
Charles P. Stone, numerous "squeezes" of Egyptian antiquities, con- 
tributed by the latter gentleman ; a series of Saxon crania, and other 
antiquities, from Professor Rolleston, of Oxford ; specimens from the 
prehistoric burial-places near Solntre, presented by Professor Lartet, 
and valuable collections from the Samoan Islands, by A. B. Steinberger, 
esq. 

Under the head of Mammals^ an important acquisition is that of a 
perfect pair of skins and skeletons of musk-oxen, from Mr. Hardisty, of 
the Hudson's Bay service, in arctic North America. 

Mr. P. T. Barnum, in pursuance of his liberal offer to place at the dis- 
posal of the Institution, for the use of the National Museum, all such 
animals from his menagerie as might die on his hands, has furnished 
specimens of the nylghau, the manatee, the dromedary, the sun-bear, 
and other species. A specimen of the sea-lion of Patagonia has been 
received from Doctor Burmeister, of Buenos Ayres. Henry W. Elliott 
has procured for us a series of skins and skeletons of the fur-seals. Doc- 
tor Gabb has furnished complete collections of nearly all the known 
mammals of Costa Rica, in great number. Professor Pageustecker 
presented skins of various European mammals. A series of the seals 
of Newfoundland was received from Rev. M. Harvey; and Captain 
Scajimon has contributed additions to the series of cetaceans of the 
Pacific Coast, especially that of California, it being his intention to 
render the collection of the National Museum as complete as he can 
make it. The objects received illustrate his important work on the 
marine mammals of the western coast of the United States. 

The Vienna Museum has supplied skins and skeletons of several 
species of Old World mammalia. From Doctor Bessels has been received 
a skeleton of the polar bear, and from Doctor Yates casts of the teeth of 
the fossil elephant of California. Seiior Albuquerque, of Brazil, has 



32 KEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

furiiislied living specimens of the coatimundi ; and Doctor Nichols, of 
the Washington Insane Asylum, the body of a very large grizzly bear. 
Specimens of tbe black-tailed deer and American panther were ob- 
tained ibr the Institution by Mr. James Stevenson, of Doctor Haydeu's 
survey. One of the most important contributions of the year, as far as 
the mammalia of North America are concerned, consisted of several speci- 
mens of the black-footed ferret, ( Putorius nigripes,) a weasel described 
by Mr. Audubon in 1843 from a single specimen, which has not beeu 
since caught until the present year, when specimens were transmitted to 
the Institution h\ Mr. La Munyon, Dr. Law, and Mr. L. H. Kerrick. 

Especially noteworthy among the birds received during the year is a 
specimen of the dodo pigeon (Diduncuhis strigirostris) from the Samoan 
Islands, jiresented by Mr. A. B. Steinberger. This species is best known 
from having been collected by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, and de- 
scribed nearly simultaneously by Sir William Jardine and Mr. Titian R. 
Peale. It is confined to these islands, where it is nearly extinct. This 
specimen is especially valuable from being presented entire in alcohol, 
thus furnishing an opportunity of a thorough anatomical investigation 
of its characteristics. A living specimen just received at the Zoological 
Garden in London has attracted great attention. 

Mr. Lucien M. Turner, now stationed at Saint Michael's, in Norton 
Sound, as an observer in the Signal-Service, has sent a number of birds, 
■with their eggs, of much interest, among them specimens of the Sterna 
aleutica and other rare species. 

A cast of part of the skull of a remarkable fossil bird from the Shep- 
pey clay, of England, (the Odontopterijx toUapicus,) has been received 
from Mr. Bryce M. Wright. Mr. Barnum has supplied, from the speci- 
mens that died in his menagerie, the cassowary, the emu, and the 
ostrich. From Dr. Gabb has been received a very large series of the 
birds of Costa Eica. Mr. J. E. Harting, of London, has supplied some 
rare specimens of the grallse. Collections of the birds of Colorado have 
been furnished by Mr. C. G. Aiken and Mrs. Maxwell ; of the Isthmus 
of Tehuantepec, bj^ Professor Sumichrast ; of the Prybilov Islands, from 
Mr. George R. Adams. Collections of the birds of Brazil were furnished 
by Seiior Albuquerque, and of Buenos Ayres by Dr. Burmeister ; a 
series of rare species from Ecuador was also received from the Wesleyan 
University, at Middletown, Conn. 

A noteworthy fact is the receipt of a specimen of the Arkansas fly- 
catcher, killed in Maryland, and presented by Mr. Jouy, this species 
being usually confined to the western plains. 

The most important of the collections of eggs received are those fur- 
nished by Captain Charles Bendire, United States Cavalry, from South- 
ern Arizona ; those from Dr. William A. Cooper, of Santa Cruz, Cali- 
fornia; from Florida by Professor Jenks, and from Alaska by Mr. Dall 
and Mr. Elliott. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

The collections of reptiles received during the year have not been very 
extensive, the most important being the series furnished by Mr. Gabb 
from Costa Eica, and those brought in by the expedition of Lieutenant 
Wheeler. Captain Bendire has furnished a specimen of the rare Helo- 
denna horridum, a curious Wzurd from Arizona', and several living alli- 
gators from Florida have been supplied by Messrs. Chandler and Boyd. 
Mr. John Potts, a correspondent of many years' standing, has again 
evinced his interest in the Institution by sending a collection of reptiles 
and fishes from Mexico. A living sea-turtle from Florida was presented 
by the honorable Secretary of the Navy, and a giant snapping-turtle of 
the Mississippi, by Mr. Boyd. Dr. Eeuss has furnished collections of 
reptiles from Illinois, Professor Sumichrast others from the Isthmus of 
Tehuantepec, Mr. John Queseda the poisonous serpents of Nicaragua, 
and a series gathered during the operations of the Northern Boundary 
Survey was brought in by Dr. Coues. Mr. Meek obtained from Florida 
a specimen of Elajjs distans, a serpent to which reference has already 
been made, as previously known only in Arizona. 

The collections of fishes embrace some of the most noteworthy addi. 
tions of the year, these having been made with special reference to the 
operations of Professor Baird as United States Commissioner of Fish 
and Fisheries. The most important of these were gathered by himself 
on the coast of New England, especially in the vicinity of Noank, 
Conn., where he had his headquarters during the past summer. These 
embrace fidl series of all the kinds known to occur in those waters, sup- 
plemented by rare specimens sent by his agents and correspondents at 
Wood's Hole, Portland, and elsewhere. Large numbers, too, of the 
fishes of the great lakes and of the Mississippi, &c., have been sup- 
plied, among them specimens of the grayling of Michigan and of Mon- 
tana, including several new species ; and series of white-fish from Maine, 
New Hampshire, and elsewhere, have also been received. Mr. E. G. 
Blackford, the well-known dealer in fish at Fulton Market, New York, 
has been especially serviceable in this connection by keeping a sharp 
watch over the rare and curious fish coming into New York, and send- 
mg them suitably packed in ice to Washington. By means of the vari- 
ous fresh fishes thus obtained, the series of casts of the food-fishes of 
the United States, commenced a few years ago, has been greatly ex- 
tended during the past season, this now numbering over three hundred 
specimens, painted carefully from nature, and representing fislies and 
cetaceans, some of them of nearly a thousand pounds weight. This 
collection of casts is unique in this country, and is only represented on 
a smaller scale by that of Mr. Frank Buckland, in Loudon, and that of 
the natural history museum of Trinity College, Dublin. 

Other specimens of fishes are those from thQ coast of Virginia, sup- 
plied by Prof. H. E. Webster ; skeletons of the fishes of South Carolina, 
from Mr. G. E. Manigault j specimens from the Sacramento Bay, sent 
3 s 



34 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

by ]\rr. L. Stone ; from the viciuity of New Bedford, by Mr. John H. 
Thomson ; from Florida, by Mr. G. B. Goode ; from the Susquehanna 
Eiver, by Mr. T. IT. Bean and Mr. Jas. Oreveling ; from Montana, by Dr. 
Hart ; from Lake Superior, by J. T. Coleman ; from Michigan, by D. H. 
Fitzhugh, jr., and Fred. Mather j from Cooperstowu, N. Y., «S:c., by 
Captain Phinuey, 

Of fishes from regions outside of the United States, specimens have 
been furnished from the fresh waters of Central Europe, by Dr. Middle- 
ton Goldsmith ; from the Pacific Ocean, by the United States steamer 
Portsmouth; from Kamtschatka, by Col. T. L. Lee; from Cuba, by Pro- 
fessor Poey and Professor Shepard ; and from the Mauritius, by Capt. 
Nicholas Pike. The last-named collection is in great variety of species 
and admirable preservation, constituting one of the most important 
contributions ever made in this department to the National Museum. 
Professor Poey's collection is a continuation of a systematic series, which 
he has undertaken to supply, and which already embraces over a hun- 
dred species. 

The Zoological Museum of Copenhagen has supplied models of the 
common form of weir used in Denmark for the caj^ture of fishes. 

The general collections of marine invertebrates have been from Mr. 
WiJliam H. Dall, from Capt. Nicholas Pike, and from the United States 
Fish Commission, among other series. In moUusks the collections of 
Captain Pike and Mr. Dall are especially rich. 

A series of shells from the coast of Norway, by Mr. G. O. Sars, of 
Christiania, will oe of much value for comparison with American forms. 
Numerous shells of fossil mollusks have also been received from various 
donors. 

From the fact that the collections of insects have been transferred to 
the Agricultural Department, not much can be announced in the way 
of receipts in this department, all the specimens that have come to hand 
having been, as usual, delivered to that establishment. It may be 
worthy of mention, however, that the first collections made by the United 
States astronomical expedition for the observation of the transit of 
Venus, received at the Institution, consist of a series of butterflies from 
Brazil, furnished by Mr. Eussell. 

Ofp?«nfs various packages have been received from the different Gov- 
ernment expeditions, among them some interesting fossil species from 
Mr. Ambler and Dr. Stevens, of Virginia, and Mr. Sternberg, of Kansas. 
As heretofore, all the recent specimens have been transmitted to the 
Agricultural Department. 

Among the more important contributions to the museum have been 
the specimens of soundings made by Commander Belknap, on the Tus- 
carora, during his labors in the Pacific Ocean. These are of very great 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

extent, and promise to furnish large numbers of new species. They are 
now i>hiced in the hands of Prof. Hamilton L. Smith for identification. 

A series of dredgings has been received from the vicinity of Kotzebue 
Sound and other i^ortions of Behring Sea, made by Captain Smith, of 
the Alaska Commercial Company. 

Minerals in considerable number have been received, among them a 
series collected by Colonel Abert, of Tennessee, specimens deposited by 
Mr. J. II. Jenkins, of Northumberland, specimens from Berlandier as 
presented by General D. N. Couch, together with specimens from Saxony, 
g:ven by Dr. Eudlich ; these are in addition to the large gatherings of 
the Government expeditions. 

Dr. Endlich, in charge of the mineralogical department of the museum, 
states that, during the year 1S74, 250 minerals have been placed in the 
cases, in addition to those mentioned iu the last report, as well as 300 
litbological specimens and 150 ores. 

The metallurgical collection remains about the same. 

The labeling of the minerals has been finished, and exhibits a type 
of what the method will be when the whole collection is completed. 

A large number of minerals has been examined at the request of 
correspondents of the Institution, and their qualitative character deter- 
mined. For purposes of education the Institution furnishes qualitative 
determinations of mineralogical specimens, but in no case does it un- 
dertake to furnish percentages of the different components of specimens, 
or give certificates, for commercial purposes, of their value. 

The fossils are being arranged, and in the course of a year we hope 
to have series of duplicates for distribution. 

During the past summer, Dr. Endlich was engaged in tbe southwestern 
portion of Colorado, in the San Juan mining region, in connection with 
the nayden expedition, an account of which will be given in the reports 
of that establishment. 

It is, of course, impossible to enumerate all the collections and speci- 
mens, or to give in these cursory notes anything more than a general 
idea of the nature of the receipts of the year. The complete list of 
donors, with the objects presented by them, will be found arranged 
alphabetically iu the appendix to the report. 

Worlc done in connection with the National Museum. 

As might reasonably be supposed, the magnitude of the receipts 
during 1874 has required much time and labor to reduce them to order, 
exceeding as they did by far those of any previous year. The rapid 
rate of increase is evinced by a comparison with the data for 1873 and 
1872, as follows : 

The total number of entries for 1874 is 5G4, from 337 donors, and em- 
braces 712 packages; for 1873 the numbers are 441, 241, and C80, 
respectively ; and for 1872, 315, 203, and 544. 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

As regards the distributioa of duplicate specimens to public estab- 
lislimeuts, &c., the records show 320 entries ; these include donations of 
specimens to 40 foreign museums and zoologists and to 1G5 home insti- 
tutions, and embrace 32 sets of mammals, 18 of birds and eggs, 4 of 
reptiles, (living and dead,) 4 of fishes, 3 of crania, 5 of insects, 03 of 
shells, 12 of plants, 2 of fossils, 106 of minerals, rocks, and building- 
stones, 7 of ethnological specimens, and 5 of diatomaceous earths ; in 
all, 261 lots. 

A table in the appendix shows the total number of specimens dis- 
tributed, including also those deposited in the care of the Department 
of Agriculture and the Surgeon-General's Ofifice. 

Of specimens submitted to specialists for examination and report 
there have been 61 lots : Mammals to H. and J. A. Allen and to Dr. 
Sclater ; birds to Geo. N. Lawrence ; reptiles and fishes to E. D. Cope ; 
insects to Messrs. Packard, Scudder, Edwards, Ostensacken, Uhler, 
Ulke, Stretch, Cresson, Thomas, Glover, Emerton, and Holden ; shells 
to Messrs. Tryou, Binney, and Sandberger; crustaceans to S. J. Smith; 
marine invertebrates to A. E. Verrill; plants to IMessrs. Gray, Rothrock, 
Vasey, Englemann, Oluey, James, and Carson ; microscopic material 
to IMessrs. Smith and Seaman ; mineral waters to Dr. Loew. 

Six lots additional to the above have been lent for study. 

The number of specimens sent out for investigation is approximately 
estimated as follows : Mammals, 2,000 ; birds, 000 ; reptiles, 100 ; fishes, 
100; insects, 7,000 ; shells, 500 ; marine invertebrates, 400; ethnologica, 
10; packages of microscopic material, 500; plants, 9,000; in round num- 
bers about 20,000. Some of these are included among the specimens 
distributed. 

It is no exaggeration to say that 40,000 specimens are represented by 
the 320 entries in the distribution-book. 

Collecting apparatus has been lent to about fifteen expeditions and 
collectors, i^rincipally from the stores of the United States Fish Com- 
missioner. 

GOVERNMENT EXPLORATIONS AND SURVEYS. 

The following is a brief sketch of the surveys made under the au- 
thority of the General Government during the year 1874, the specimens 
from which are to be finally deposited in the museum under the care of 
the Institution. 

Uxplorations and fnirvcys west of tlie 100th meridian, First Lieutenant 
George M. }Yhceler, Corps of Engineers, in charge. 

Nine separate parties took the field in 1871 for operations in portions 
of Nebraska, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona, The point of 
departure was Pueblo, Colorado Territory, in the valley of the Arkan- 
sas. The whole area entered and occupied lies south of the latitude 
of the Spanish Peaks, except that included in special journeys necessary 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

to complete the triaDgulation commenced in 1873. This important work 
was delegated to Lieut. Wm. L. Marshall, Corps of Engineers, who 
brought to this taslj, besides professional and executive abilities, the 
experience gathered in his former labors upon this work. The total area 
assigned was a little less than 35,000 square miles. 

Out of the nine parties, six were moving field-parties, having special 
areas conjoining along latitudinal and other lines, and connecting at cer- 
tain triangulation and topographical stations. 

A special party, under Doctor J. T. Eothrock, U. S. A., organized 
with a view to institute further investigations into the natural history 
of certain areas left unfinished in 1871, 1872, and 1873, in New Mexico 
and Arizona, departed from Santa Fe early in the season, and returned 
■ laden with rich and valuable collections of the flora and fauna of that 
great region ; having carried on, in connection with their examinations, 
observations for altitudes of special points within the drainage area 
visited, throwing further light upon the geographical distribution of ani- 
mal and vegetable life. 

Two main distinct astronomical parties were occupied in establishing 
the co-ordinates of points immediately adjacent to the field of survey 
and others along the line of the Union Pacific Eailroad, and were 
successful in accomplishing all that was laid out for them. 

The results in the astronomical branches are, the conclusions of the 
observations necessary to determine the co-ordinates, and the astronomi- 
cal meridian at the stations Las Vegas and Cimarron, N. Mex., the latitude 
of Pueblo, Col., the latitude and longitude of Sidney Barracks, Jules- 
burgh, and North Platte Station in Nebraska, on the Union Pacific 
Eailroad. 

At the field astronomical stations sextant observations were carried 
on by the following ofQcers in charge of the several parties: First 
Lieut. Wm L. Marshall, First Lieut. P.M. Price, Corps of Engineers; 
Second Lieut. C. W.Whipple, Third United States Artillery; First Lieut. 
E. Biruie, jr., and First Lieut. S. E. Blunt, Thirteenth United States In- 
fantry. These stations have been numerous, answering all the require- 
ments made upon them for checking special i^ositious by a method iu 
l)lace of which nothing else could be made available. 

The geodetic work included the establishment of 79 main triangu- 
lation stations, extending a net-work over the entire mountain-area 
occupied. Base-lines were measured at Trinidad and Pueblo, Colorado; 
Cimarron, Las Vegas, and Santa Fe, New Nexico. These bases control 
the triangulation which connects the belts of 1873 in Colorado, New 
Mexico, and Arizona, as well iis those north and south from the line of 
the Union Pacific and Central Pacific Eailroads. 

In meteorology, except at the astronomical stations at Cimarron and 
Las Vegas, N Mex., the observations were conducted solely with a view 
to the deternminatiou of altitudes at i>romiuent physical points within 
the area surveyed. 



88 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Thougli no person was actually assigned as geologist, Doctor H. C. 
Yarrow, U. S. A., and Professor E. D. Cope investigated the geology 
and paleontology of the Territory of New Mexico. The results obtained 
were highly interesting. The cretaceous beds yielded many fine fossil 
shells and teeth of extinct fishes, and the carboniferous limestone was 
found to be equally rich iu specimens. A unique collection of a large 
number of beautifully preserved invertebrate remains was procured from 
the same formation. These are the deposits of a lake of a compara- 
tively modern age, which abound in the remains of skeletons of the 
animals that inhabited the surrounding laud. Mastodons of species 
quite different from those frequently found in the Eastern States were 
in abundance, while camels and horses had evidently existed in droves. 
One of the most singular discoveries was that of a deer which did not" 
shed its horns; and the fossil remains further indicate that at this time 
several species of wild dogs existed to keep in check the herbivorous 
animals, while a large vulture, allied to the turkey-buzzard, was prepared 
to act as scavenger as occasion offered. In another locality crocodiles 
and turtles were very numerous. Among the large remains were those 
of the genus Bathmodon, which closely resembles the elephant in the feet 
and legs, but the tapir and the bear in the character of the skull. They 
were armed with formidable tusks, and their crania were very thick, as 
if designed to repel attacks. 

In the line of archieology and ethnology were found the remains of 
ancient human dwellings which stand in lines on the summits of rocky 
crests, and on the more inaccessible and remote points of hills, with 
precipices of several hundred feet in depth on one or more sides; from 
these and burial places most interesting specimens of pottery, besides 
crania and skeletons, were obtained. 

The mineralogical specimens collected have been carefully analyzed 
by Doctor Oscar Loew in the laboratory of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dr. H. C. Yarrow, in charge of the natural-history branch, with his 
assistants, have added more largely than ever before to our knowledge 
of the living fauna of large interior areas. Their results are soon to be 
worked up by themselves and other specialists, and the specimens after- 
wards deposited iu the National Museum at the Smithsonian Institution. 

As usual, a photographer accompanied the expedition, who this year 
was successful in obtaining special photographs of ancient ruins, of 
various Indian tribes, &c. 

While the parties operated in the field, the office-force remained en- 
gaged in working up the results for publication. 

The publications during the past year of the surveys under the "War 
Department have been : the Progress Eeport of 1872, a preliminary cata- 
logue of plants gathered in 1871, 1872, and 1873, and a preliminary report 
upon the ornithological specimens collected iu the same years ; the first 
iu quarto, the two latter iu octavo. An advance edition of the Topo- 
graphical Atlas and other physical sheets was also published. 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

The total working-force taking the field withont escorts, for the^rs^ 
time, was 8G, including officers, assistants, and employes. The utmost 
harmony existed among all the parties, which largely conduced to cor- 
respondingly enhanced results. In regard to these surveys under the 
wT DeplLent, the following p,aragraph appears m the Annual Ee- 
7ort of the Chief of Engineers to Congress : " By expenence and im- 
provements in methods and instruments, the value ot the results .s 
annually enhanced, and the cost of the work amply repaid. 
Tcannot fad to ie gratifying to all who are interested m tU. cl,,, o^ 
investigations to be convinced that the proper basis for further syste- 
matic endeavor has been reached. 

Survey under Professor Eayden. 

This survey during the season of 1874 continued the work of 1873 west 
wJrdof the l'07th meridian of longitude in Colorado Territory Theen 
tire area explored lies on the west slope of the mam range of the Eocky 
XuSns, forming the eastern part of the drainage of the great Co orado 

R^ver The topographical and geological work included a careful y-sur- 
^eyed area of about eighteen thousand square miles, much of it com- 
prising some of the most rugged and mountainous scenery on the con- 
ti nt' The southern portion includes an area of nearly ^^^^-e lio - ne 
square miles, the greater part of which is at an elevation of 12,000 eet 
and upward. The first division of the party, under Mr. A. R. Mar. in 
operating in Northwestern Colorado, established 86 stations ; the second 
rSon, under Mr. Gannett, which explored the rugged area be ween 
the Gunnison and Grand Rivers, also established 80 stations; while the 
third division, surveying the remarkably high country in t^e southwest, 
determined Qo stations, most of them being on peaks ranging from 13,000 
feet and upward, the highest being 14,500 feet. 

A fourth division, nnder Mr. G. R. Bechler, performed the important 
duty of measuring the roads, trails, passes, and carefully worlang up 
the contiguous topography, besides meandering a distance of about me 
hundred miles. Mr. Bechler established 36 important stations, thus 
rendering more accurate and complete the general work of the survey. 
A fifth party, under Mr. W. H. Jackson, the photographer, passed over 
the greater portion of Western Colorado, obtaining about four hundred 
neo^rtives of the most characteristic scenery. These views have proved 
of i:reat value in the topographical and geological studies •, but tbe most 
interesting result was a series of views of the wonderful ruins m the 
canons of the Mancos and Montezuma Rivers. The party found here 
remins of a rude civilization in the form of buildings, made of hewn 
stone laid in mortar. Among the ruins were various kinds of stone 
implements and glazed pottery, on some of which -ere figure, of the 
suii On the plains and mesas these ruins occupy considerable areas, 
indicating tlie former existence of a numerous population. In the canons 
the stone dwellings are built high up in the caverns or crevices in the 



40 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

sides, from 800 to 1,000 feet above the bottom, in almost inaccessible 
positions. From all the information that conld be obtained from the 
present race of Indians, these dwellings were inhabited at least eight 
centuries ago by a race of sun-worshippers, which were driven south- 
ward, step by step, by a persistent foe from the north. 

The sixth division, under Mr. J. T. Gardner, continued the primary tri- 
angulation over the mountainous region of the southwest, extending 
into Utah, and connecting with some of Professor Powell's stations. 

The seventh division was under the immediate direction of Professor 
Haydeu, and made special studies of those portions of Colorado that 
presented rather complicated problems in geology. A careful survey 
was made of the Elk Mountains, of the Morainal deposits in the valley 
of the Upper Arkansas, and the coal-beds along the east base of the Col- 
orado range of mountains from CaSon City to Cheyenne. The season's 
labors were in every respect successful, and a large amount of topo- 
graphical, geological, and natural-history material was secured for the 
eighth annual report to the Secretary of the Interior. 

The publications of the survey during 1874 were the Bulletin Ko. 1 
and iSTo. 2, and second series, Nos. 1, 2, 3 ; miscellaneous publications. 
Nos. 3, 4, 5, Gj Cretaceous Flora, by Leo Lesquereux, 7th Annual Eeporl, 
(Colorado.) 

Surrey under Professor Powell. 

This was the continuation of the geological and geographical explora- 
tion of the basin of the Colorado of the West in Utah, prosecuted for sev- 
eral years previous. For this work two parties were organized, one under 
the charge of Prof. A. H. Thompson, and the other under the immediate 
direction of Professor Powell himself. Each party had a number of 
assistants, and to the latter was added a photographer. Thetirst party 
■was enjployed in carrying forward the work in Central Utah, and tlie 
second party in Northeastern Utah. 

The valley of the Sevier, near the town of Gunnison, was selected as 
the proper position for the base-line from which a series of triangles 
could be extended to the north, east, and south, and connected uith 
those which had been established in former years. 

For hypsometric determinations Green Kiver City on the Union Pacific 
Eailroad, Salt Lake City, Gunnison, and Pangwitch were selected, fiom 
their connection with railway surveys, as known points of reference for 
altitudes to be ascertained by the barometer. 

The geographical determination of latitude and longitude rests pri- 
marily on the base-line, the terminations of which were established by 
astronomical observations. For latitude the zenith-telescope was em- 
ployed, and for longitude telegraphic methods were adopted. 

The material was collected for maijping and exhibiting the resources 
of a section of country heretofore but little known, embracing many 
ranges of mountains and i^lateaus, with valleys drained by streams 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

which in i^Uices pass through deep and almost inaccessible gorges. Over 
the entire region surveyed the data were collected for determining the 
amount and distribution of lands which can be redeemed from sterility 
by irrigation, and also that of grass and timber lands. The coal-forma- 
tions, which had been discovered in previous surveys in adjoining re- 
gions, were traced through the areas of the present survey, and many 
new beds discovered. It was found that the coal of Southern and Cen- 
tral Utah is distributed through a series of geological formations em- 
bracing most of the Tertiary and Cretaceous ages. The supply of coal 
of this region is, therefore, abundant, and much of it is said to be of 
good quality and widely distributed. The position of many of the more 
important mineral-lodes was determined, especially such as have been 
worked to a sufficient extent to enable the owners to acquire permanent 
titles from the Government, and these will be represented on the general 
map. 

The geological structure of tue region is exceedingly complex. A series 
of formations, embracing Tertiarj^ Mesozoic, Paleozoic, and Metamorphic 
rocks, are plicated on a grand scale, and displaced by faults of immense 
extent. During geological ages, and continued down to later periods, 
this region must have been the scene of great volcanic activity. Exten- 
sive fields of eruptive matter and large numbers of volcanic cones are 
exhibited. In many places there exist great escarpments, forming canon- 
walls and lines of cliffs, exhibiting with great perfection the superposi- 
tion and structure of rocks, from which interesting geological deduc- 
tions can be made. 

The great system of monoclinal folds and faults discovered in former 
years, crossing the grand caiion of the Colorado, was found to be extended 
into the region of this year's survey. The lithological geology was 
studied so far as the opportunities permitted, and large collections of 
rocks made, especially of the volcanic formations widely distributed in 
geological succession. From the sedimentary rocks fossils were obtained 
abundantly sufficient to indicate the ancient flora and fauna of the 
region. The Territory is traversed by profound gorges, which conduct off 
the small amount of rainfall not evaporated. Although the amount of 
water carried by the streams is small, the great elevation of the country 
above the sea giv^es it the velocity of a torrent, and being mingled with 
stones, its erosive action exhibits effects unequalled, perhaps, in any 
other part of the globe. On the mountains and plateaus of this region, 
wherever an altitude of 9,000 feet, or more, is reached, evidences of 
ancient glacial action are found. 

Interesting ethnological results were obtained. Two important tribes 
of Indians were again visited, the tJ-in-tats and Senv-a-rits, irsually 
known as the Uinta Utes and She-be-riches, and much additional 
knowledge of the words and grammatical construction of their language 
was secured, as also a series of facts relating to the naming of tribes 
and confederacies, with fresh information as to their political orgauiza- 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tion. It SO happened tliat while the surveyors were among- these In- 
dians, messengers arrived from the Go-si-Utes, of Western Utah and 
Eastern ]!^evada, bringing information of great rains and of the gradual 
rising of the Great Salt Lake, indicating, as they supposed, a great 
calamity, and calling upon the tribes we have mentioned to join them 
in religious ceremonies to appease the anger of the waters, lest in their 
rage and coming x^ower they should destroy all the land and the people 
who lived thereon. The state of religious excitement which ensued 
enabled Professor Powell to increase his knowledge of their mythology 
and religion, in directions which previous to that time had been closed 
to him. On these subjects the Indians are usually reticent. Believing in 
sorcery and that a knowledge of their religion and organization can be 
used by their enemies to their disadvantage, they forbear to give any 
information on these subjects. But under the excitement above men- 
tioned their reserve was neglected, and facts revealed which had pre- 
viously been only partially understood. Previous to this no definite in- 
formation had been obtained as to their religious worship, or whether 
they had any system of appeasing the displeasure of their gods. 

A large number of articles to illustrate the various arts among these 
people, in addition to those made in previous years, was collected, so 
that the specimens in the National Museum for the study of the civili- 
zation of these tribes are more extensive, perhaps, than for any other on 
the American continent. Attention was also given to the ancient re- 
mains in the valley of the Colorado, and interesting additions have 
been made to the facts already known. A number of additional ruins 
were discovered, and observations made for depicting on a map scores 
of ancient towns or hamlets. Copies of picture-writings and stone im- 
plements of various kinds were obtained. The ethnological investiga- 
tion embraces language, mythology, folk-lore, and the means of obtain- 
ing subsistence. 

A large number of photographs was taken, which served to assist the 
draughtsman in delineating the topographical features of the country; 
also another series of the Indians themselves, intended to illustrate 
their dress, habits, and other characteristics. 

Survey under Hon. Archibald Camphcll. 

This survey was for the continuation of the boundary-line along the 
forty-ninth parallel of latitude, between the United States and the 
British possessions. The distance remaining to be surveyed during 
1874: was three hundred and fifty-eight miles, from longitude 10G<^ 12' 
to longitude 11 1^ 03'. It was divided into two parties, the astronomical 
and the topographical. 

During the season of 1871 the work was executed in the same manner 
as before, under the agreement made between the chief astronomers of 
the United States and British commissions, to theefiect that the officers 
of the United States were to determine astronomical stations at inter- 
vals of forty miles, and to survey a belt of territory five miles wide south 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

of the parallel, the Euglish to determine a similar series of astronomical 
stations, and to survey an equal belt of topography north of the line. 

The astronomical party, in charge of Maj. W. J. Twining, was organ- 
ized in Saint Paul, Minnesota, ou the 1st of June, and reached the 
X)oint of operation ou the 1st of July. The shortness of the season, and 
the great distance to he traveled after the work should be completed^ 
required that it should be finished early in September. The party was- 
therefore, pushed to the utmost limit of endurance, and by the 1st of 
September the eight astronomical stations assigned to the United States 
had been determined, and the line had been connected with the last 
previous station of the boundarj^ at the summit of the Eocky Mount- 
ains. In four months, this expedition accomplished a journey of 3,700 
miles, besides surveying and marking 358 miles of the boundary-line. 

The topographical party remained in the field both winter and sum- 
mer from the 1st of June, 1873, until the jiresent time, with the ex- 
ception of two months in the spring of 1874. They have demonstrated 
that instrumental work can be done in that high latitude, even in the 
most rigorous part of the winter, Avhere the country is wooded ; but on 
the open plains the exposure is dangerous. That i}ortiou crossed by 
the liue surveyed during 1874 was found to be an open plain, entirely 
destitute of timber, but easily practicable for wagon-trains, except in 
the vicinity of Frenchman's Creek and the crossing of Milk River, where 
wide detours had to be made to avoid the bad-lands. From longitude 
108° to the crossing of Milk Eiver the country is unattractive, the rain- 
fall is small, and water consequently scarce during the summer. The 
soil is alkaline, and produces mostly sage-brush and cactus. From the 
Sweet-Grass Hills to the Eocky Mountains its character is entirely 
changed. The rain-fall appears to be ample. The belt along the foot 
of the mountains, in addition to scenery of rare beauty, presents to the 
eye of the practical man the more solid advantage of an unsurpassed 
fertility. Northwestern JMontana is still the range of immense herds of 
buffaloes, whose numbers, according to Major Twining, contrary to the 
commonly-received opinion, are constantly increasing. This region is 
the country of the Blackfoot and Piegau tribes of Indians. It is also 
the debatable ground of the North Assiuaboines, the Gros Ventres of 
the prairie, and the Eiver Crows, while an occasional war-party of the 
Sioux may be found as far northwest as the Sweet-Grass Hills. With 
the exception of the Sioux, these tribes appear to be peaceably enough 
disposed. 

Collections and observations in natural history were made at almost 
every point along the boundary-line by Dr. Elliott Cones, surgeon and 
naturalist of the expedition, although it is to be regretted that he was 
not supported by an adequate corps of assistants, particularly in the 
departments of geology and botany. Large collections were made and 
sent to the Institution, an account of which is given in the report of 
Professor Baird. It is to be hoped that ample time may be allowed Dr. 
Cones for the preparation of his final report, in order that the results of 



'44 , REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

his field-work may bo fully elaborated in illustration of the flora and 
fauna of a portion of the United States of which comparatively little is 
known. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The Institution, as in former years, has been in harmonious co-operation 
with the Department of Agriculture, the Army Medical Museum, and the 
Corcoran Art Gallery. With the first it has deposited plants and other 
articles relating to agriculture ; to the Medical Museum it has transferred 
a large number of articles pertaining to comparative anatomy and mate- 
ria medica, and has received in return ethnological specimens; in the 
third, the Corcoran Art Gallery, it has deposited a number of paintings, 
aiticles of statuary, engravings, i&c. A list of these several deposits 
will be found in the appendix. 

It may be mentioned that the present Secretary of the Institution 
has been chosen one of the trustees of the Corcoran Art Gallery, and 
thus the connexion between these two establishments has become more 
intimate. The Gallery has been opened during the past year under very 
favorable auspices, and bids fair to be an important means of improving 
the intellectual and moral condition of the citizens of Washington, as 
well as a perpetual monument of the beneficent liberality of its founder. 
Since its first opening to the public on the 19th January, 1874, it has been 
visited by 75,000 persons. It has an endowment of $900,000, and had 
an income last year of upward of $02,000. 

Fog-Signals. — During the last summer I devoted a considerable por- 
tion of my vacation to investigations in regard to sound in its applica- 
tion to fog-signals, the results of which have been published in an ap- 
pendix to the Light-House Eeport for 1874. 

These investigations, which were a continuation of those of former 
years, tend to establish the fact that sound is susceptible of a kind of 
refraction, due to the unequal velocity of the upper and lower current 
of the air, by which the sound-ray is in some cases bent upward, and 
consequently passes far above the head of the distant auditor, and in 
others is refracted downward to the surface of the earth, and is thus 
perceived at a much greater distance. This principle explains the pe- 
culiar action of the wind on sound, as well as various abnormal phe- 
nomena which have been observed from time to time in the operation 
of fog signals; also the discharge of cannon during battles, of which 
the sound was heard at remote points, though inaudible at those much 
nearer the explosion. 

Fish inquiry and propagation. — It may be remembered that an act of 
Congress was passed in February, 1871, directing an inquiry to be made 
into the causes of the decrease of the food-fishes of the United States, 
to be i)rosecuted by a commissioner appointed by the President, from 
the civilian employ6s of the Government, and to serve without salary. 
Professor Baird, of this Institution, received this appointment and en- 
tered upon his duties. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

In 1872 his sphere of labor was exteutled by instructions for the 
employment of snch measures as might increase the food-fishes of the 
country; and reports from time to time have been made of the results o£ 
the work. 

The growing interest in this subject, and the belief that the objects to 
be accomplished were of great importance to the country; have induced 
larger and larger appropriations from Congress, and the sphere of the 
labors of the commissioner has been extended accordingly. His work 
is prosecuted under two distinct heads : lirst, that of an inquiry into 
the causes of the decrease of food-fishes ; secondly, that of their multi- 
plication. 

In prosecuting the inquiry referred to he has established himself at 
points on the sea-coast where the fisheries it was desirable to investi- 
gate are carried on, and, by inquiries on his own i)art and those of his 
assistants, he satisfied himself as to the condition of the fisheries, and 
the extent to which they have been diminished, and the steps to be 
taken for their restoration. 

He has embraced the opportunity thus offered, to carry on a thorough 
survey of the natural history and physics of the ocean, thus doing for 
the coast portion of the territory of the United States what the explora- 
tions of Professor Hayden, Lieutenant Wheeler, and Major Powell are 
accomplishing for the Territories of the West. 

His operations during the summer of 1874 were carried on at Noank, 
Conn., his field of investigation extending from Narragansett Bay on 
the east, to the mouth of the Connecticut Eiver on the west, and to the 
eastern end of Long Island on the south. 

As usual his presence, with the facilities at his command, attracted a 
large number of visitors, among them some of the movst eminent natur- 
alists of the country, who were thus enabled to carry on important re- 
searches in natural history, all of them having a more or less direct 
bearing upon the objects of the commission. Professor Yerrill, of Yale 
College, has been associated with Professor Baird from the beginning 
of this branch of investigation, and as usual labored indefatigably dur- 
ing the season. 

The results of the labors of 1871 at Wood's Hole have already been 
published in a volume which constitutes a work of standard excellence. 
The report for 1872 is nearly ready for publication, and that for 1873 is 
well advanced. The second division of his duties, that of the work of 
propagation of food-fishes, was directed more especially to the multi- 
plication of the shad and salmon. Owing to the late period at which 
the appropriation for this purpose was available, the operations in re- 
gard to the hatching of shad were not commenced until June, when 
camps were successively established on the Delaware, the Hudson, and 
the Connecticut; that on the Hudson in connection with the fish com- 
missioners of New York, and that on the Connecticut with the commis- 
sioners of that State. 



.46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Owing: to the deatli of Dr. Slack, wlio was in charge of the station 
on the Dehl^Yare, very little was done on that river. On the Hudson a 
very considerable number of shad was obtained and distributed, apart 
from those introduced into the river by the State commissioners them- 
selves. The greatest amount of the work, however, was done at South 
Hadley Falls, on the Connecticut River. The fish here being very 
abundant, many young fish were hatched and distributed, mainly under 
the direction of Mr. James W. Milner, to various localities in many 
States, extending as far west as Minnesota, south to Texas, and east 
to Maine, the total number thus supplied amounting to over two millions. 

The operations in regard to salmon were still more satisfactory, being 
carried on at two establishments; one on the McCloud River, in Cali- 
fornia, under the charge of Mr. Livingston Stone, and the other on the 
Penobscot River, in Maine, under Mr. Charles G. Atkins. The former 
furnished six millions of eggs, of which one million were hatched and 
placed in the Sacramento River, the others being transported to hatch- 
ing-houses in the East, and the young subsequently placed in the waters 
of the New England and jMiddle States, in addition to those of Mary- 
land, Virginia, West Virginia, IS^orth Carolina, Louisiana, Texas, Ohio, 
Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and low^a. 

The establishment at Bucksport, on the Penobscot, has also yielded 
over three million eggs. These have not yet been distributed, as they 
are not sufficiently far advanced, but they will be planted principally in 
the waters of the New England, Middle, and more northern of the 
Western States. 

The importance of these measures for the artificial propagation of 
fish maj^ be readily understood from the fact that the actual results 
from one pair of shad or salmon, treated artificially, fully equal those 
from one hundred, and, according to some, one thousand pairs, when 
left to perform this function naturally. 

Deep-sea soundings. — Professor Baird has made a series of observations 
on temperatures of the sea-water at different depths, the results of which, 
will be published in his report as United States Fish Commissioner. 

The Institution has received, for investigation, from the Bureau of 
Navigation, Navy Department, under Commodore Ammen, a large 
number of specimens of deep-sea soundings, collected in the Pacinc 
Ocean by the officers of the United States steamship Tuscarora, Com- 
mander G. E. Belknap. These specimens have been referred for micro- 
scoi)ic examination to Prof. Ilamilton L. Smith, of Ilobart College, 
Geneva, N. Y., who has undertaken the investigation, and will report 
the result as soon as the work is finished. 

Polaris Artie Exploration. 
During the past year Dr. Einil Bessels has been engaged at the Smith- 
sonian Institution iu working up that part of the scientific material 
which was saved from the collections of the voyage of the Polaris in the 
years 1871-73. The results of the investigations will be given in three 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

volumes, of wliicli the first is nearly ready to be put iu tLe hands of the 
l>rmter. This volume contains — 

Part I. Hydrography and meteorological observations at sea. 

a. Hydrographical remarks relating to Bafiin's Bay, Smith's Sound, 
and Eobesou Channel. 

h. Temperature of the sea and its specific gravity at different depths. 

c. Ice of Smith's Sound and its motion. 

d. Tidal observations made at Polaris Bay, comi^rising eight luna- 
tions. 

Part II. Meteorology. 

a. Temperature both at Polaris Bay and Polaris House, the second 
winter quarters. 
1). Effect of the direct heating power of the sun 

c. Eft'ect of terrestrial radiation. 

d. Hygrometrical observations. 

e. Atmospheric pressure. 
/. Winds. 

g. Face of the sky. 

li= Ozone. 

*. Rain and snow. 

Part III. Psychrometrical tables, giving the relative humidity, force 
of vapor, and dew-point for each tenth of a degree from 32° to —45°. 

Part IV. Astronomical observations. 

Part V. Magnetism and aurora. 

Part YI. Pendulum experiments. 

The second volume will be devoted to natural history, comprising 
zoology, botany, geology, palaeontology, mineralogy, &c. 

The third volume will comprise the ethuology of the Esquimaux. 

The whole will be copiously illustrated by wood-cuts and charts, and 
published under the auspices of the Navy Department.* 

Chemical Laboratory. — During the past two years the laboratory of the 
Institution has been in charge of Dr. Oscar Loew, the chemist and min- 
eralogist of the Wheeler survey, and during this time he has made 
various analyses for the Institution of minerals, mineral waters, and 
other substances referred to the Institution lor examination by the 
Government and other parties. 

In behalf of the Wheeler expedition he has investigated and analyzed 
the waters of thirty-four mineral springs of New Mexico and Colorado, 
many soils of the arable lands of Arizona and New Mexico, rocks such 
as basalts, rhyolites, trachytes from New Mexico, coals of various local- 
ities in Colorado and New Mexico, lake and river deposits, mineip-ls. 
such as turquois, garnets, zeolites, plants used for medicinal purposes 
by Mexicans, &c., &c. 

Photograpluj. — The photographic laboratory, under the direction of Mr. 
T. W. Smillie, has been in continued operation during the past year; a 

* For the exi)ense of the illustratious, Cougiess ajipropriated $15,000 iu March, 1875. 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

series of photographs baying been made of ethnological and natural his- 
tory specimens for the use of the Institution, and a large amount of 
work done for others, especially for the Government surveys. The 
establishment of a photographic laboratory has been of great conveni- 
ence to the Institution, and has been attended with but little expense. 
It aftbrds at once the facility of photographing specimens and copying 
charts and other illustrations, while the support of the artist has been 
furnished by work performed for other parties. 

Liglit-Hoiisc duty. — I have been a member of the Light- House Board 
since its first organization, and during all this time have discharged the 
duties of chairman of the committee on experiments. On the resig- 
nation of Admiral Shubrick I was elected chairman of the board. I 
was honored with this election not entirely on account of the services I 
had rendered in the way of scientific investigations, but principally 
because [ belonged neither to the Army nor the Navy, of which it was 
desirable that neither should claim i)redouiinance. The duty, however, 
pertaining to this office has been much more arduous than I anticipated. 
Indeed, in order that I might attend to it without interfering too much 
with my devotion to the al!'airs of the Institution, it was necessary that 
the board should be recalled to a previous usage, namely, that of meet- 
ing every week and transacting the i^rincipal business through its com- 
mittees, instead of meeting quarterly and intrusting the operations of 
the establishment almost entirely to the two secretaries and the chair- 
man, under which plan the latter was obliged to be in continual attend- 
ance at the Light-House office. 

I am gratified to be able to state that, although some dissensions have 
occurred on account of the want of definite assignment by the original 
law of Congress of the relative duties of the Army and Navy while on 
light-house service, yet that the whole system at ju'csent is in an effi- 
cient state of activity. 

It may be proper to remark that, for the labor which I have bestowed 
npon the light-house service for upward of twenty years, I have received 
no other remuneration than that which results Irom the conscious feel- 
ing of haviug successfully labored in some degree to advance the efii- 
ciency of a service which involves the protection of life and property, 
and is one of the benevolent institutions tendiug to facilitate the rela- 
tions of distant countries with our own. 

CONCLUSION. 

From the foregoing statement it will be evident that the Institution is 
successfully prosecuting the plan adopted for realizing the benevolent 
intention of its founder in the way of increasing and diffusing knowl- 
edge among men; that its funds are again in a prosperous condition, 
and that its reputation and usefulness are still on the increase. 
Eespectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
■ Washington, January^ 1875. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Table showing the numher of entries in the record-hoolxS of the United States 
National H'luseum at the elose of the years 1873 and 1874, respectively. 



Class. 



1873. 



1874. 



Mammals 

Birds 

Reptiles aud amphibians. 
Fishes 

Skeletous aud skulls 

T^^ggs 

Crustaceans 

Annelids 

Mollnsks 

Radiates 

Invertebrate fossils 

Minerals 

Ethnological specimens . . 



Total . 



11, 625 


12,294 


65, 950 


68, 361 


8,222 


8,293 


12, 514 


13, 808 


13, 290 


14, 408 


16,710 


17, 062 


2,194 


2,204 


100 


100 


24, 756 


24, 757 


3, 139 


3,142 


7,725 


7,727 


8,108 


9,178 


13, 084 


16,415 



187,417 



197, 749 



Increase for 1874, 10,332. 

Approximate table of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the 

1874. 



end, of 



Class. 



Distribution to the 
end of 1873. 



Distribution 
during 1874. 



Species. 



Skeletons and skulls 

Mammals .^ 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Fishes 

Nests and eggs of birds 

Insects 

Crustaceans 

Shells 

Radiates 

Other marine invertebrates 
Plants and packages of seeds 

Fossils 

Minerals and rocks 

Ethnological specimens . 
Diatomaceous earths,(pkgs) 

Total 



389 

1,038 

24, 580 

1, 975 

2, 717 
6, 676 
2,748 
1,078 

84, 637 

583 

1,844 

23, 370 

4,112 

5,453 

1,886 

83 



Speci- 
mens. 



163, 169 



1,114 
2, 990 

37, 885 

3, 220 

5,748 

16, 770 

6, 294 

2, 650 

187, 292 

778 

5,160 

39, 705 

10, 141 

11, 152 

1,969 

812 



Species. 



40 

1,091 

299 

16 

54 

496 

900 



5,152 



5, 000 
13 

3,414 

64 

175 



333,680 I 16,724 



Speci- 
mens. 



116 

1,789 

322 

42 

67 

1,100 

2,000 



8,000 



10, 000 

13 

5,100 

100 

200 



Total to the end 
of 1874. 



Species. 



429 
2,129 

24, 879 
1,991 
2,771 
7,172 
3,648 
1,078 

89, 789 

583 

1,844 

28, 37ft 

4, 125 

8,807 

1,950 

258 



Speci- 
mens. 



28, S4a 



179, 883 



1,230 

4,779 

38, 207 

3,262 

5, 815 

17, 870 

8,294 

2,650 

195, 292 

778 

5,160 

49, 705 

10, 154 

16, 252 

2, 069 

1,012 



362, 529 



4 S 



50 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION (UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM) IN 
1874. 

Abert, J. T. One box of geological specimens from Nashville, Tenn. 
Aiken, C. E. A collection of birds from Colorado ; a mounted specimen 

of little striped skunk, {Mepliitis hicolor,) and two bottles containing 

contents of the scent-bags of Mephitis americamis and Mephitifi hicolor. 
Albuquerque, Senor Don Frederico. Skins of humming-birds, fungi, &c.; 

two living specimens of coati-mundi, {Nasua, sp.,) from Brazil. 
Alden, Mr. One barrel of skulls, from an Indian mound near New 

Smyrna, Fla. 
Ambler B. C. One box of fossil plants from Virginia. 
American Sardine Company, Neic YorJc. Specimen boxes of American 

sardines. 
Anderson, Thomas C. One package of minerals from Ellison Station, Ky. 
Anderson, WilUam. Two boxes of stone implements and shells from 

Indian grave, from J'erry Co., Ohio. 
Andrews, Br. Robert H. Nine microscopic slides. 
Amy, General W. F. M. Seeds of stone-pine and cigarita-shucks from 

tbe Navajo Indians, New Mexico. 
Ashton, L. H. One specimen of fossil fish from Green River Station, 

Wyo. 
Atkins, C. G. See under Washington, U. S. Coinmission of Fish and 

Fisheries. 
Avery, T. C. One skin of duck-hawk, [Falco anatum,) from Greens- 
borough, Ala. 
Bagster, C B. Specimens of spiders, (prepared.) 

Baird, Prof. tSpencer F. One S[)ecimeu of marmoset monkey, {Hapale 
jacchns,) in the flesh; a collection of earthen vases, (28 pieces,) from 

Peru; a collection of fur garments, miscellaneous etlmologica, and 

minerals, from Greenland ; a collection of plants, from tbe collection 

of tbe late Major liich. See, also, under Washington, U. S. Com- 

mission of Fish and Fisheries. 
Baker, Capt. John. A collection of shells from Florida. 
Banks, T. C.,jr. Oue specimen of salamander, {Notophthabnus virides- 

cens,) from Wallingford, Conn. 
Barccna, Mariano. See under Mexico, Sociedad de la Historia Natural. 
Barf oot, Joseph L. See under Salt Lake City, Salt Lake Museum. 
Barntim, Phincas T. Specimens, in the fiesh, of cassowary, {Casuarius 

indicus,) uylghaa, [Portax tragocamelus,) dromedary, [Camelus drome- 

darius,) sun-bear, {Helarctos tibetanus,) and skeletons of emu and 

ostiich. 
Battle, Thomas H. Specimens of abnormal hens' eggs from Kaleigh, 

N. C. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 51 

Batty, J. R. Two boxes of bird-skins 5 mounted specimen of great 
horned owl, [Bubo virginianus ;) one box of bird-sterna. 

Bean, Tarlcton H. A collection of fresli-water fishes from Bainbridge, 
Pa. ; a collection of stone implements from Wyoming, Luzerne, Brad- 
ford, and Lancaster Counties, Pa. See, also, under Washington, U. 8. 
Commission of Fish and Fisheries. 

Beardslee, Corner L. A., U. S. JSf. Specimens of young of Dorosoma cepe- 
dianum from the Potomac Eiver, of Salmo fontinalis and Ftheostoma, 
sp., from Little Falls, N. Y. ; tusk of walrus [Bosmarus ohesns) feom the 
iNorth Pacific Ocean. 

Beatts, James W. Specimens of agates and opals from Lake Superior, 
Texas, and Germany. 

Beclc, Hon. James B. Specimens of minerals from Kentucky. 

Beclcett, George. A collection of minerals from the ricinity of Williams- 
town, Vt. 

BecJcicith, Capt. N. W. A skeleton of " devil-fish," [Lophins america- 
nits,) from the Bay of Fundy ; one Chinese stink-pot. 

BcR-nap, Gom''r G. E., TJ. S, N. See under Washington, Navy Bepart- 
ment. Bureau of Navigation. 

Bcndire, Capt. Charles, U. S. Cavalry. Two boxes of birds' eggs from Ari- 
zona ; two bottles of Coleoptera from vicinity of Tucson, Ariz.; a speci- 
men of Heloderma horridum in alcohol. 

Bergen, Norway ; Bergen Museum. Specimen of dolphin, [Delphinus leuco- 
2)lenrus,) from the coast of Norway. 

Bessels, Br. Emil. See under Washington, TJ. S. Navy Department, Fo- 
ld ris Expedition. 

Billopp, John 8. One specimen of black wood-pecker, [Rylotomus xnle- 
atus,) in the fiesh. 

Binney, W. G. Two specimens of Carinifex Neivherryi. 

Blaclcford, E. G. Fresh specimens of fishes : blue-backed trout, {Salmo 
oquassa ;) striped bass, [Roccus lineatus ;) tauto g, [Tantog a onitis ;) 
cod, {Morrhua americana ;) salmon, {Salmo salar ;) white perch, {Mo- 
rone americana ;) saury pike, {Scomberesox scutellatus ;) Spanisli 
mackerel, [Cybium maculatum ;) leatheT-jacket, {Oligoplites occidenta- 
lis ;) drum, [Pogonias chromis ;) red snapper, {Lutjanus aya ;) stui- 
geon, {Acipenser brevirostris,) &c., &c. 

Boardman, George A. Caudal vertebrae of porcupine [Erethizon dorsa- 
tus) from Milltown, Me. 

Boteler, Alexander B. One Indian stone implement from near Front 
Eoyal, Warren Co., Va. 

Bowers, Mr. Specimens of muscovite from Ackworth, N. H. 

Boyd, C. H. One specimen of alligator terrapin, {Gypochelys temminckii} 
from New Orleans, La. 

Bradford, A. A living specimen of red fox ( Vulpes fulviis) from Wash- 
ington, D. C. 
Breese, W. L. One skin of crested cormorant, {Graculus dilophus.) 



52 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

BrfAcer, James J). See uuder Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish and 

Fisheries. 
Brinsmacle, G. E. One bottle of coleoptera from Fort Sully, Dak. 
British Museum. See under London. 
Brown, M. B., V. S. Revenne Marine. One specimen of Dana's coral 

{Astrangia Danaa) from Lewes Beach, Pa. 
Brown University. See under Frovidence. 

Bruhin, Thos. A. Specimens of supposed new species of Yaccinium. 
Bruner,- G. G. One sj)ecimen of hair-worm {Gordins aquaticiis) from 

Oktibbeha, Miss. 
Brush, Frof. G. J. A collection of minerals. 

Bryan, 0. N. One specimen of fossil Area from Prince George Co., IMd. 
BucU, Sarah A. A specimen of asbestus from Maryland. 
Buenos Ayres ; Mxiseo FubUco de B. A., Frof. H. Burmeister. A collection 

of bird-skins from South America; skull and skin of seal {Otaria 

leonina) from Patagonia. 
Buie, B. M. Indian skull and ethnological specimens from Wilmington, 

X. C, (on deposit.) 
Burmeister, Frof. H. See under Buenos Ayres. 
Byers, William N. One specimen of muscovite from Colorado. 
Ganfield, K. One specimen of selenite from Kansas. 
Garpenter, Gapt. W. L. Specimens of reptiles' and birds' eggs from 

Omaha, Nebr. See, also, under Washington, Department of State, 

Northern Boundary Survey. 
GarroU, Michael. Prepared specimens of the gullets and skin of unborn 

cub of the harp-seal from Bonavista, Newfoundland. 
Gharleston, S. C.; Mus. of the Med. Gol., Dr. G. E. Manigault. Mounted 

skeletons of sheepshead, (Stenoiomus argyrops,) and drum, {Fogonias 

chromis ;) fossils from the phosphate-beds of South Carolina. 
Chandler, L. H. A living alligator, {Alligator mississipiensis,) young, 

from Florida. 
Chase, A. W. Ethnological specimens from shell-heaps in Oregon: 

drawings by a " medicine-man " of the Ta-ta-tin tribe. Crescent City, 

Oreg. 
Gheever, D. A. A bottle of orthoptera from Colorado. 
Chicago, Academy of Natural Sciences; Dr. J. W. Velie. Two mounted 

skins of birds. 
Ghristiania, Korway ; Zoological Museum; Frof. G. 0. Sars. A collec- 
tion of shells from Ncu'way. 
Clarice, Frof. F. W. Specimens of cyprinodonts from Massachusetts. 
Clarice, N. W. See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish and 

Fisheries. 
Glitz, Gen. H. B., U. S. A. A shoulder-blade of buffalo, with Indian 

paintings. 
Cock, George. One specimen of aquacreptite from Chester Co., Pa. 
Goclcerill, J. U. Two minerals. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 53 

Coffin, Charles C. Specimeus of irou-ore, with fossil ferns, from Muit- 

kirk, Priuce George Co., Md. 
Coleman, J. T. Four salinon-skius from Ishpeuniug, Midi. 
Collins, W. R. A mounted specimen of king-eider duck {Somateria 

spectabilis) from Detroit, Mich. 
Commagere, Frank Y. Ethnological specimens and tooth of narwhal 

{2[ouodo)i monoceros) from Greenland. 
Cooper, George P. Specimeus of insects. 
Cooper, ^Y. A. A collection of birds' eggs and nests from Santa Cruz, 

Cal. 
Copenhagen; Museum of Zoology. A model of Danish fish- weir. 
Cormcall, Prof. H. B. See under Princeton, Museum of the College of 

Neiv Jersey. 
Couch, Gen. D. N. The Berlandier Collection of minerals from Mexico, 

eleven boxes. 
Cones, Dr. Elliott, U. IS. A. See under Washington, Department of State, 

Northern Boundary Survey. 
Coulon, Dr. Louis. Specimens of ancient pottery from Central Europe ; 

a collection of alcoholic mammals. 
Coicen, Gen. B. B., Assistant Secretary of the Interior. An Indian pipe 

of peace smoked at the great council of tbe Grand River agency by 
the Umpapa Sioux. 
Creveling, J. P. Specimens of California salmon {Sahno quinnat) one 

year old from the Susquehanna Hirer. 
Gushing, Franlc H. A collection of bone implements from an Indian 

grave near Medina, N. Y. 
Dall, William H., Coast Survey, U. S. A. Thirty-seven boxes and kegs 

of general zoological and ethnological collections from Alaska ami 

California. 
Davenport, Iowa; Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences. A collec- 
tion of Indian crania from mounds in Iowa. 
Davidson, Mr. Specimens of magnetite and of ornamental woods from 

Salem, Oreg. 
Davis, D. W. Specimen of a root encircling a water-pipe, froui Wash- 
ington, D. C. 
Derer, J. T. Specimens of minerals from Georgia. 
DicMnson, E. Thirteen eggs of the marbled godwit, {Limosa fedoa.) 
Dickie, J. A. Specimen of mineral from Independence, Va. 
Douglas, Harry. Two steel-tipped Indian arrows from Kansas. 
Douglas, James, jr. Plaster-casts of stone hammers from Campana 

Serena, Coquimbo, Chili. 
Dow, Capt. J. M. A living specimen of burrowing owl {Spheotyto cuni- 

cularia, var. foridanus) from the Gulf Stream, 200 miles i'rom the 

coast of Georgia; a collection of fishes from Panama; two packages 

of Central American minerals. 
Dowell, B. F. Specimens of fossil wood from Oregon. 



54 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Bury, Charles. Nests of ■worm-eating warbler {Hehnintliophaga vermi 
rorus) aud Carolina wren, {Thryofhorns Indoviclanus.) 

Button, Thomas E. Specimens of quartz arrow-beads from Unioutowu, 
D. C. 

Edmunds, Colonel. Specimens of bowlder rocks fron) Wbite Top Moun- 
tain, Grayson Co., Va. 

Edwards, VinalN. See under Washington, U. 8. Commission of Fish and 
Fisheries. 

Elliott, Henry W., Special Agent Treasury Bepartnitnt U. S. Eight boxes 
of general zoological and ethnological collections from the North Pa- 
cific ; skins of sea-otter, {Enhydra marina,) and skulls of Walrus, {Ros- 
marns obesus,) from Alaska ; one tank of alcoholic s[)ecimeus from the 
Aleutian Islands; augite crystals from Saint George Island, Alaska. 

Endlich, Br. Frederic M. A collection of minerals from Saxony. Sec 
also under Washington, Interior Bepartment, U. S. Geological Survey. 

Farrell, JS^orman. A skull of large turtle from the Oclocknee River, Flor- 
ida. 

Fay, Joseph S. A specimen of oyster [Ostraea-virginiana) from Wood's 
Hole, Mass. 

Ferguson, Maj. T. B., Maryland Commissioner of Fisheries. Two living 
specimens of black bass, (Micropterus salmoides.) 

Field, S. T. Specimen of fish {Gila, sp.) and fossil fish from Green 
Elver, Wyoming. 

Finclc, Hugo. An alcoholic specimen of frog {Rhinostomus dorsalis) 
from a lagoon near Cordova, Mexico. 

Fish, W. S. Asbestos paper and cloth from Scotland. 

Fisher, Bavenport. A collection of minerals irom Ackworth, N. H. 

Fitzhugh, B. F. Specimens of fishes from Bay City, Mich. 

Fletcher, W. W. Specimens of white-fish {Coregomis, sp.) from Ne\v 
Hampshire. 

Fly^ Major. Specimens of silver-ores from Chihuahua. 

Forsyth, W. A. Manganese-ores from West Virginia. 

Fossicl; T. L. & Co. Specimen of polished marble from Ingleton, Ala. 

Fraine, Thomas W. Mounted specimens of birds from Rochester, N. Y. 

Gahh, Prof. William M. Two stone idols from Santo Domingo ; eight 
boxes of general zoological and ethnological collections from the 
Talamanca expedition, Costa Rica. 

Gass, A. M. Specimens of vegetable gum and galls from Campo, San 
Diego Co., Cal. 

Gidney, Love and Burton, (through V. S. Bepartment of Agriculture.) 
Specimens of minerals from Cleveland Co., N. C. 

Golden, H. W., through C. G. Atkins. S[)ecimens of Osmerus, sp., from 

Belgrade, Me. 
Gohhmilh, Br. Middleton, Vermont Commissioner of Fisheries. Collec- 
tions of fishes and crustaceans from Central Germany and from the 
river Seine. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 55 

Goode, G. Bron-n. Specimeus of menliaden {Brevoortia menhaden) aud 
parasites ((7?/wo^7iOfl j9rrt'^?6s/«#of) from the Potomac River; a collec- 
tion of fishes from the lower Saint John's Eiver, Florida. See, also, 
under Middletown; Museum of Wesleyan University : and Washington^ 
U. 5. Commifdon nf Finh and Fifherie,. 

Gordon, Hon. Johii B. One specimen of coal from Alabama. 

Griggs. Hon. A. S. Specimens of minerals from Washington Territory. 

Grisicold, C. D. See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish and 
Fisheries. 

Hague, Henry. Aboriginal musical instruments from Guatemala. 

Hailes, J. Bones aud pottery from an Indian mound in Tennessee. 

Hardenhurgh, L. B., U. S. Surveyor- General for California. Specimens 
of borax from California ; minerals from California. 

Hardestie, W. X., Hudson Bay Company. Skins and skeletons of male 
and female musk-oxen {Ovihos onoschatus) from the Barren Grounds 
of Arctic America. 

Harmer, Miss Helen A. An Indian pipe from Kesheua, Wis. 

Harris, D. W. Specimen of stag-horn beetle from Louisiana. 

Hart, Dr. Charles A., U. 8. A. Specimens of Montana grayling, {Thy- 
mallus montanensis, n. sp. Milner.) 

Hart, James M. Specimens of brown coal from Oswego, N. Y. 

Harting, Dr. J. F. Skins of grallae from various localities. 

Harvey, F. S. Four specimeus of oolite from Des Moines, Iowa ; speci- 
mens of roots {Psoralea esculenta) used as food by the Indians, from 
vicinity of Humboldt, Iowa. 

Harvey Rev. M. Arm of squid [ArchiteutMs monachus) from Newfound- 
land ; series of mounted skins of Newfoundland seals. 

Hashins, Anderson. One malformed hen's-egg from Washington, D. 0. 

Hayden, Dr. F. V. See under Washington, Interior Department. 

Hayes, Dr. W. W. Two stone implements from San Luis Obispo, Cal. 

Haynes, Benjamin. Minerals from Bergen Hill, N. J. 

Heidelberg University Museum, Professor Pagenstecher. Skins of mam- 
mals from Europe ; skeleton, fossil, of Halitherinm Schinzi. 

Hemphill, Henry. A collection of insects, marine invertebrates, «&c., 
from San Diego, Cal. 

Henshaw, H. W. See under Washington, War Department; Surveys ivest 
of the one hundredth meridian. 

Hereford, Dr. Thomas P. An aboriginal stone pipe from Coalburg, 
W. Va. 

Herron, J. P. A specimen of muscovite from Atlanta, Ga. 

Hessel, Dr. Rudolph. Specimeus of the cocoons of the common leech 
{Hirudoimcdicinalis) from Germany. 

Hill, George W. Indian stone implemeuts from Ashland, Ohio. 

Hill, J. B. A living specimen of alligator, {Alligator mississippioisis,) 
youug, from Florida. 



56 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

HitchcocTc, G. N. A skin of bullock's oriole {Tcterus BnllocU) from San 
Diego, Cal. ; eggs of unknown bird. 

Ilolst, Chn.stHoi, Secretary of the Royal University of Noricay. Speci- 
mens of cbalk fossils from Gotland Island, South Sweden. 

Uoope & Coit, Port Monmouth Fishery, New York. Sample boxes of slia- 
dines [Brevoorta menhaden) in oil. 

Homer, Charles F. Indian stone implements, &c., from Pbcenix, xiriz. 

Hnbhard, Lieut. E. B., U. S. Artillery. Specimens of cloth from Monte- 
zuma Wells, Ariz. 

Eutchins, W. D. Specimens of minerals from Lexington, Ind. 

Hyer, J. D. Specimens of darter (Pileoma caprodes) from the Potomac 
Eiver. 

Jaclison, E. E. One living specimen of soft-shell turtle {Platypeltis 
ferox) from the Congaree Eiver, South Carolina. 

Jennings, 8. K. Fossil sbark's teeth and sea-urchin spines from Eienzi, 
Miss. 

Jenkins, J. H. Specimens of azurite from Arizona; agates from Lake 
Superior, (on deposit ;) a collection of Indian stone implements from 
Central Pennsylvania, (on deposit.) 

Jenks, Prof. J. W. P. See under Providence, Museum of Brown Univer- 
sity. 

Jenkins, Admiral Thornton JSf., U. S. N. Specimens of bricks from the 
great wall of China. 

Jones, John P. A slab with Indian carvings from Keytesville, JNIo. 

Jones, Dr. William E., U. S. K See under Washington, Navy Bepart- 
ment. 

Jordan, Dr. Franklin. A specimen of Yoluta junona and mineral from 
Jacksonville, Fla. 

Jouy, P. Louis. Skin of Arkansas fly-catcher ( Tyrannus verticalis) from 
Maryland. 

Kapena, Governor. One wooden pipe from the Sandwich Islands. 

Kellogg, Dr. A., through U. S. Coast Survey Office. A collection of 
mosses and lichens from Alaska. 

Kccnan, J. R. MissiSvSippi State currency, one one-dollar bill. 

Kelly, D. M. Specimens of clay from Little Wolf, Minn. 

Kenny, William E. A living snake {Boa, sp.) from P>razil. 

Kerchcval, A. W. One specimen of specular hematite from West Vir- 
ginia. 

Kcrrick, L. E. One skin of black-footed weasel {Putorius nigripes) from 
Western Kansas. 

Ketcham, Dr. Ovaries and stomach of black bass {Micropterns sal- 
moides) taken in the Potomac Eiver. 

Kinney, Thomas W. A cast of an Indian carving from Ohio. 

Kridcr,John. Specimens of shot. 

Xa Munyon, J. W. One skin of black- footed weasel {Putorius nigripes) 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 57 

from North Platte, Kansas; bead of grebe; shells from the Loup 
River, Missouri. 

Lamb, George. Specimens of coral from Florida. 

Lathmiij James H. A collection of fishes from Florida. 

Latham., Gapt Silas B. A collection of shells from Florida. 

Lau\ Annie JE. One box of ethnological specimens from Daltou, Ga.; 
ethnological siiecimens from a mound, Chilhowee Valley, Little Ten- 
nessee River. 

Xaif, Br. One skin of black-footed weasel {Putorius nigripes) from 
Cache La Poudre Valley, N. Colo. 

Lea Isaac. One specimen of Lioplax cyclostomiformis ; two specimens 
of Garinifex Newherryi. 

Ledyarcl, L. W. One specimen of harlequin snake {Elaps fulvius) and 
insects from Orange Bluff, and one pipe-fish {Syngnathus, sp.) from 
Saint Augustine, Fla. 

Lee, Gol. Francis L. Fishes from Kamtchatka. 

LenthaU, John. Bas-relief of human head, funeral urn, and lachrymal 
urn, from Bail, Italy. 

Leicis, Br. James. A collection of land and fresh-water shells from 
New York; a collection of univalve shells from various localities. 

Lincecum, Br. Gideon. A cranium of negro outlaw from Long Point, 
Tex. ; insects from Texas. 

Loeiv, Br. Oscar. See under Washington, War Bepartment, Surveys icest 
of the one hundredth meridian. 

London, British Museum. Cast of Assyrian tablet. 

Lloyd, H. H. One star-fish and a fish's tail from Port Townsend, W. T. 

Lartet, Br. See under Lyons, France; Musee d^Histoire NatureUe de Lion. 

Lowry, T. W. One specimen fossil Unio from Elizabeth City Co., Va. 

Luce, M. M. Ten specimens of white-fish {Coregonus, sp.) from Indus- 
try, Me. 

Lynch, Judge. Indian pipe and tomahawk from Weldou, N. C, (on 
deposit.) 

Lyons, France; Musee WHistoire NatureUe de Lyon, Br. Lartet. A col- 
lection of fossil bones and flint implements from the prehistoric sta- 
tion at Solutie, near Macon, (Saone et Loire,) France. 

McGoolc, General A. McB., U. S. A. One bill of a saw-fish [Pristis 
antiquorum) from Santiago Harbor, Tex. ; one Comanche lance, and 
scalp of white child, from Fort McKavit, Tex. 

Mackenzie, Br. E. H. R. A box of dried leaves. 

McLaughlin, W. B. Specimens of young herring [Clupea elongata) from 
spawning-ground, southern head of Grand Manan, X. B. ; one q^^^ of 
raven {Gorvus carnivorus) from Grand Manan. 

McRitchie, Gapt, U. S. N. One Eskimo dog-trace from Greenland ; 
specimens of cryolite from Ivigtot, Greenland. 

Manigault, Br. G. E. See under Gharleston, S. G., Museum of the Medi- 
cal Go I lege. 



58 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Mapcs, John S. Specimens of miueral (Titanite?) from Warwick, IS^. Y. 
Marshy M. J. A package of pebbles from New Jersey. 
Mason. Judge Charles. Specimens of rocks from Mount Vesuvius. 
Mason, Prof. 0. T. One Comaucbe tomahawk-pipe from Fort Sill, 

lilalio; specimens of betel- nuts from Rangon. Buimah, 
Mather, Fred. Fins of grayling (ThymaUus tricolor) from Honeoye 

Falls, N. Y.; one specimen, in the flesh, of the grison {Galictis vittata ;) 

specimens of grayling from Honeoye Falls. 
Maxwell, Mrs. M. A. Skins of gray-crowned finch {Leucosiicte tephroco- 

tis) from Boulder, Colo.; a collection of land-shells from Colorado. 
AfeeJc, Prof. F. B. One specimen of harlequiu snake, [Flaps distans,) 

other reptiles, and insects, from Florida. 
Meigs, General M. C. Specimens of ludiau pottery from Arizona; Indian 

pil)e from the Dog tribe; four pieces of pottery from Pueblos, Tex.; a 

fresh skin of wapiti, (Cervus canadensis.) 
Middletoicn, Conn.; Mnseum of Wesleyan University, G. Brown Goode, 

curator. Skins of raptores from New England ; skins of birds from 

Ecuador. 
Mexico; Sociedad de la Historia Natural, Mariano Barcena. Specimens 

of opals from Mexico. 
Miller, Dr. C. A. A collection of fossils from the Cincinnati group ; a 

collection of stone implements from the banks of the Ohio River, be- 
tween Meigs Co., Ohio, and Madison, Ind. 
Mills, Clark. Casts of the heads of Eskimo Joe and Hannah. 
Miiner, James W. See under Washington, U. 8. Commission of Fish and 

Fisheries. 
Mitchell, Br. S. Weir, Specimens of Indian pottery from Michigan and 

New Jersey. 
Moffatt, Br., U. S. A. Six Hoopa Indian arrows, (through U. S. Army 

Medical Museum.) 
Montfort, Rev. J. G. Specimens of land-shells from United States. 
Moody, Elisha. Sponges and ludiau stone hatchet from Florida. 
Moragne, Br. N. H. Specimens of bones, shells, &c., from a mouml near 

Pilatka, Fla. 
Moore, L. P. Specimens of minerals from Winchester, Va. 
Moore, N. B. Fossil bones, bird-skins, and eggs from Manatee, Fla. 
Morrison, F. L. Specimens of silver-ores from Mexico. 
Morrison, J. R. B. Specimens of minerals. 
Miiller, Prof. Rudolph. Si)ecimeus of fungi from Carthagena, Ohio ; 

stone implements and bones from Carthagena, Ohio. 
Murray, Corner, U. S. N. Teeth of fossil sharlv, and bill of a saw-fish, 

{Pristis antiquorum,) from South Caroliiia. 
Nash, Thomas H. One articulated human skeleton. (Purchased.) 
Neic Albany, Ind.; Academy of Sciences. Casts of bone implements from 

shell-heaps, New Albany, Ind. 
Nichols, Br. C. H., Government Asylum for the Insane. Specimeus, in 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 59 

the flesb, of grizzly bear, {Ursiis JiorrihiUs,) and bald eagle, {HaAcictus 

leucocephalus.) 
Nicl-erson, Geor'ge Y. One bird's egg {Mcgapodhis^ sp. ?) from tbe Celebes 

Islands. 
Ocean Trout Co., Port Ifonmoiith, JV. J. SauiplA boxes of " oc^au t'^oiit," 

{Br.evoortia menliaden,) pickled. 
Oldmixon, Dr. George S., U. 8. A. Specimens of grayling [Thymallus 

mo7itanensis, Milner, u. sp.,) from Montana. 
Otis, Col. Karrison G. Petrological and botanical specimens ftom Gua- 

daloupe Island, Lower Cal. 
Oxford, England; Museum of Nat. History ; Prof. George Rolleston. Four 

boxes of stone implements and pottery, and crania of ancient Saxons, 

from England. 
Pagensteclier, Professor. See nncler Ueidelherg, Unirersity Museum. 
Palmer, Dr. Ddivard. Two packages of ethnological specimens from 

Florida. 
Papineau, E. A. One box of pinned coleoptera from Topeka, Kans. 
Parker, W. F. A tail of black-tailed deer {Cervvs macrotis) from Red 

Cloud agency. 
Peshall, Capt. Charles. One stone knife from Clark Co., Ark.; shells 

and quartz crystals from Ouachita Valley, Ark. 
Phinney, Captain. Five specimens of Otsego white-fish {Coregonus otse- 

go) from Otsego Lake, N. Y. 
Pierson, William L., U. s. vice-consul. One specimen of meteoric iron 

from Casas Grandos, Chihuahua, Mex. See under Washington, De- 
partment of State. 
Pike, Col. Nicholas, U. 8. consul. Twelve packages of general zoologi- 
cal collections from Mauritius and the Indian Ocean. 
Poey, Prof. Felipe, University of Havana. Collections of minerals, skins, 

and alcoholic specimens of fishes, from Cuba. 
PoKlenz, Franz. Two iron-stone nodules from Washington, T>, C. 
Poor, C. R. One specimen sponge from Nantucket. 
Potts, John. A collection of reptiles and fishes from Mexico. 
Poicell, Maj. J. W. See under Washington, Interior Department. 
Pratt, W. H. Specimens of Helix multilineatus from Iowa. 
Princeton, N. J.; Museum of Princeton College; ProfH.B. Cormcall. A 

collection of minerals from various localities. 
Prentiss, Dr. C. A. A fresh skin of white pelican (Pelccanus erythrorhyn- 

chus) from Dade Co., Mo. 
Providence, R. I. ; Museum of Brown Univey\^ity ; Prof. J. W. P. Jenlcs. 

Skins and eggs of birds, and Seminole leggings from Central Florida, 
Putnam, Joseph Duncan. Skin of Thoinomys, sp. from Camp Brown, 

Wyo. 
Queredo, John, TJ. S. N. Specimens of venomous serpents from San 

Juan River, Nicaragua. 
Reid, J. W. One specimen of fossil criuoid from Urbana, Ohio. 



GO ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

lieuss, Dr. A. Collectiou of serpeuts, fishes, and etbnological specimens 
from Belleville, 111. 

nice, Jos. K. Que mineral from Hackettstowii. N. J. 

Eoheson, Hon. George il/. One specimen of sea-turtle from Key West, 
Fla. 

Boome, James H. One fisb-skin. 

BusseU, Mr., U. /S\ N., ( U. S. Steamer Sicatara.) Specimens or Lepidop- 
tera from Brazil and tlie Cape of Good Hope. 

Salt Lalce City; Salt Lake Museum; J. L. Barfoot. One bottle of Crusta- 
cea {Artemia, sp.) irom tbe Great Salt Lake. 

Sandherger, Fro/. FridoUn. Specimens of Helices from Germany. 

Sanford, C. 0. A living specimen of great borne<l owl, [Bubo Virgini- 
anus. 

Sars, Fro/. G. 0. See under Christiania , Sorivay ; Zoological Mttsenm. 

Scammon, Capt. CM., U. S. Revenue Marine. Specimens of baleen from 
tbree species of wbales ; skull of Orca; skeleton of striped porpoise, 
[Lagenorliynclius obliquidens;) embryo of Baird's porpoise, {Delphinus 
Bairdii;) wbale's skeleton, &c., &c. ; all from tbe Pacific Ocean. 

Schneider, A. F. Two specimens of common mole {Scalops aqnaticns) 
from Falls Cburcb, Va. ' 

Schoolera/t, Mrs. H. R. A specimen of "soap-tree" wood (iom Oliili ; 
one flint arrow-bead and specimen of Indian weaving from Arizona ; 
specimen of Indian matting from Durango, Mexico. 

Schumaclier, Faul, U. S. Coast Survey. A collection of marine inverte- 
brates from Caliiornia; a collection of etbnological specimens from 
San Luis Obispo, Gal. 

Seely, Commander H. B., V. S. N. One specimen of porcupine fish 
{Faradiodon kystrix) from Fort Jefferson, Fla. 5 skins of mammals from 
Europe. 

Seyhoth, Robert, U. S. Signal-Service, through U. S. Signal Office. Two 
bottles of insects from the summit of Pike's Peak. 

Shaw, James. One box of fossils from Mount Carroll, 111. 

Shepard and Weston. Fresh specimen of uamaycusb {Sabno nemaycush) 
from Bay City, Mich. 

Shc2)ard^ Fro/. C. U. Two jars of fishes from Cuba. 

Shepherd Bros. A box of pebbles from Warren Co., Iowa. 

Sillinian, Fro/. Benjamin. Specimens of priceite, gold, and zircon, from 
California. 

Sipa, George, and Sons. One specimen of peacock-coal from AlU'ghen^- 
Co., Pennsylvania. 

Slack, Dr. J. H, JVtH' Jersey Commissioner 0/ Fisheries. Specimens of 
joung and embryonic California salmon {Salmo quinnat) from Trout- 
dale hatching-house. 

Single, John W. One box of stone imi)lements from Congaree Eiver, 
South Carolina. 

Smith, J. Lawrence. Specimens of limestone-rock from Louisville, Ky. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 61 

Smith, B. K. Silver-ores from Arkansas. 

Snyder, Dr. J. F. One box of leaf-shaped stone implements from Beards- 
town, Cass Co., 111. 

Stabill, Joseph, through Tarleton IT. Beau. One tortoise-shell ear-ring 
from the Fejee Islands. 

Stearns, B. E. C. Seeds of coniferous trees from California. 

Steinherger, Col. A. B., Special Agent State Department U. S. Collections 
of ethnological and botanical specimens and marine invertebrates, 
Didunculus, sp., and other birds from the Samoan Islands. 

Sternberg, Charles H. Specimens of ammonites from Ellsworth Co. 
Kansas ; fossil plants from Fort Harker, Kaus. 

Stevens, B. P. Specimens of. Devonian plants from Eockingham Co., 
Virginia ; gold-ores from Venezuela ; Indian mulling-stone from Vene- 
zuela. 

Stevenson, Frof. J. J. Two stone chisels from West Virginia and Colo- 
rado. 

Stevenson, James. One skin of mule-deer, {Cervus macrotis;) a specimen, 
in the flesh, of puma {Felis concolor) from Colorado. 

Stilicell, E. M., Maine Commissioner of Fisheries. One specimen of cask 
{Lota maculosa) from Moosehead Lake, Maine. 

Stone, Gen. C. P. Casts and squeezes of Egyptian antiquities. 

Stone, Livingston. A collection of alcoholic fishes from the Sacramento 
Eiver, California ; specimens of Salmo, sp., from Dublin Pond, Keene, 
N. H. 

Stratton. L. Specimens of marine algae from Cape Flattery, Washing- 
ton Territory. 

Streets, Dr. T. Sale, U. S. Steamer Portsmouth. See under Washington, 
Navy Department. 

Stuart, William B. One Indian calumet from Augusta Co., Va., (through 
Hon. P. H. Hereford.) 

Siimichrast, Prof. F. A collection of birds from Mexico. 

Sutherland, John. One specimen of lump-fish [Cyclopterus lumpus) from 
New York Harbor ; one specimen of Zoarces anguillaris from New 
York market. 

Swan, James G. A collection of ethnological specimens, Indian stone 
implements, from Washington Territory. 

Tegetmeier, W. B. Mounted specimens of poultry-skins and skulls from 
England. 

Thompson, John A. Vegetable pleistocine remains from Jersey ville, Jer- 
sey Co., 111. 

Thomson, J. H. Specimens of fishes from New Bedford, Mass. 

Thompson, J. K. Specimens of wood from Iowa. 

Tisdale, E. J. One specimen of painted bunting {Cyanospiza ciris) from 
Mooreville, Ala. 

Turner, Liicien M., U. S. Signal- Service. Colled ion of birds and eggs 
from Oonalashka and Saint Michael's, Alaska. 



62 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Van Fleet, Walter. One spoci'-ueu of Blackburniaii warbler [Denilroica 
Blacliburnkv) aud scarlet tanager {Pyranga rubra) from Watsontown, 
Pa. 
Velie, Dr. J. W. See Chicago Academy of Natural Sciences. 
Vienna, Austria; Zoological Iduseum; Dr. L. Reettenhacher. A collection 

of skins and skeletons of mammals and birds. 
Wahl, Dr. W. R. One specimen of asbestos from Philadelpliia, Pa. 
Wallbautn, A. One speciiueu of crystalline limestone from Sagetowu, 

111. 
WalJccr, Coni'r J. G., U. S. N. One lot of fossil shark's teetli from 

Charleston, S. C. 
Wallace, J. One specimen of snowy owl {Xyctea nivea) from New York 

market. 
Walton, W. F. Specimens of silver-ores from White Pine District, Nev. 
Washington, D. C. : 
Department of State, TJ. S. A., United States Survey of the Northern 
Boundary, {Hon. Archibald Campbell, Commissioner.) Zoological, 
botanical, and ethnological collections made by Dr. Elliott Coues, 
naturalist of the expedition; skeletons of elk, {Cervus canadensis,) 
and beaver, {Castor canadensis,) collected by Copt. W. L. Carpenter, 
TJ. S. A. See elsewliere, under the names of Col. Nicolas Pike, 
Charles Weile, and William L. Pierson, TJ. S. Consuls, and Col. A.B. 
Steinberger, Special Agent. 
Treasury Department, TJ. S. A. See under the name of H. W. Elliott. 
United States Revenue Marine. See elsewhere, under the names of 

Capt. C. M. Scammon and M. R. Broicn. 
United States Coast Survey. See under the names of A. W. Chase, 
William H. Doll, and Paul Schumacher. 
War Department, U. S. A.: 

TJnited States Army. See under the names of Gen. M. C. Meigs, 
Gen. E. B. Clitz, Gen. A. McD. McCooli, Capt. Charles Bendire, 
Capt. W. L. Carpenter, and Lieut. G. M. Wheeler. 
Surgeon-GencraVs Office, United States Army Medical Museum, (Dr. 
G. A. Otis in charge.) Ethtiological specimens from Pembina, 
Dak.; one stone hammer; one Ute necklace of human toes; one 
skin bag. See, also, under the names of Drs. Elliott Coues, Peter 
Moffatt, E. C. Yarroic, G. S. Oldmixon^ Charles A. Hart, and J. T. 
Rothrocl; medical officers United States Army. 
Surveys west of the one hundredth meridian, Lieut. G. M. Wheeler in 
charge. General zoological and botanical collections made by 
Dr. H. C. Yarrow, Dr. J. T. Rothrock, Mr. H. W. Henshaw, and 
Dr. Oscar Loew. 
Signal- Service U. S. Army. See under the names of Sergeants Rob- 
ert Seyboth aud Lucien M. Turner. 
Navy Department, TJ. S. A.: 

U. S. Navy. See under the names of Coni'r J. G. Walker, ComW 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 63 

Murray, Coni^r Slcerritt, Corner Seelye, Admiral Jenkins, Comh^ L. A. 
Beardske, Com'r George Dewey, Coni'r G. E. Belknap, WiUiam Bus- 
sell, Mr. Quevedo. 
Bureau of Navigation, Commodore Daniel Ammen. Specimens of 
dredgings from tbe coast of California, United States Steamer 
Tuscarora, Commander G. E. Belknap ; zoological and botanical 
collections from the coast of Lower California, tbe Gulf of Cali- 
fornia, and the Reviligigedo Islands, United States Steamer Nar- 
rangansett. Commander George Dewey, coUected hy SurgeonWilliam 
Evers; zoological, botanical, and etliuological collections, from 
Palmyra and other Polynesian Islands, United States Steamer 
Bortsmouth, Commander J. S. Skerritt, collected by Surgeons Wil- 
liam H. Jones, and T. Hale Streets; nine specimens of bottom- 
soundings from the Gulf-coast of Mexico, United States Steamer 
Fortune. 
Bolaris Expedition, Capt. C. E. Hall. One skeleton of polar bear 
( Ursus maritimus) from Greenland, collected by Dr. Emil Bessels. 
Interior Department, U. S. A.: 

General Land-Office. See under tbe names of Surveyors- General L. 

Hardenhurgh and John Wasson. 

. United States Geological Survey of the Territories, (Brof. F. Y. Hayden 

in charge.) Four boxes of minerals itom Colorado, collected by 

Dr. F. M. Endlich. 

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, {Brof. Spencer F. 

Baird, Commissioner.) Sixty boxes general zoological collections 

from Xoank, Conn., and vicinity, by Brof. A. E. Verrill, G. 

Brown Goode, and Tarleton H. Bean; one barrel of zoological 

specimens from Holyoke, Mass., collected by J. W. 2Iilner and C. 

D. Griswold; fishes from Waukegan, 111., collected by J. W.Milner; 

three boxes of Salmonidce from Sacramento River, Cal., collected 

by Livingston Stone; eggs of white-fish {Coregonus alhus) from 

Michigan, collected by N. W. Clark; eggs of salmon {Salmo salar) 

from Backsporr, Me., collected by C. G. Atkins; fifteen boxes of 

zoological specimens from Wood's Hole, Mass., and Cape Cod, 

collected by Vinal N. Edicards ; models of dory used on the coast 

of New England, and of drying flakes, from Portland, Me.; one 

model of fish-way from James D. Brewer, Muncy, Pa. 

Smithsonian Institution; Survey of the Colorado, [Maj. J. W. Bo well 

in charge.) Four boxes of fossils from Colorado. 
Department of Agriculture, {Hon. Frederick Waits, Commissioner.) One 
specimen of Menopoma alleghaniensis ; one bottle of reptiles. 
Wasson, John, U. S. Surveyor-General for Arizona. One package of 
minerals from New Mexico, and silver-ores from Santa Torreas mine; 
minerals from Keystone mine, Arizona. 
Waterhousc, Dr. A. A collection of butterflies from Chautauqua Co., 
N. Y. 



64 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Webb, John S. One specimen of white weasel {Putorius novehoracensis) 

from Clmckatuck, Va, 
Webster, Prof. H. E. A collectiou of fishes in alcohol from Eastern 

Shore of Virginia. 
Weile, Charles, U. S. consul. One specimen of boa (" Tigre''^) in alcohol 

from Guayaquil. 
Wesleyan University. See under Middlctoivn. 
Whitaler, James C. One Indian vase from Baldwin Co., Georgia. 
Wilkinson, A. G. A collectiou of fishes from British provinces. 
Williams, I). Jl., M. D. A collection of silver-ores from Northern 

Mexico. 
Williams, Milo G. A collection of plants from Ohio. 
Williamson, Thomas. Specimens of fossil ferns and lepidodendra from 

Tennessee. 
Wilson, J. K. Collection of minerals, for examination, from Forest City, 

Mo. 
Wing, Melvin. One stone implement from Mount Vernon, Ohio. 
Wood, August If. One skull of the Virginia deer {Gariacus virginiamis) 

from Xew York. 
Wright, Bryce M. One cast of a bird's head {Odonfopteryx toliopica) from 

the London clay, Sheppey, England. 
Wright, D. T. A collection of crania and Indian relics from Clarksville, 

Teun. 
Yarroic, Dr. H. G. Specimen of cod {Gadus morrhua) from JSew York; 

seven bird-skins from the Alps, Switzerland ; Juniperus from Arizona, 

and bird-trap from France. See also under Washington, War Depart- 
ment, Surveys west of the one hundredth meridian. 
Yates, L. G. Casts of teeth of the fossil elephant {Mastodon) from 

Solano Co., Cal. 
Yeager, F. M. A collectiou of minerals from Pennsylvania. 
Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Fresh specimen of yak, (Poephagus 

grunniens.) 



DEPOSITS IN CORCORAN ART-GALLERY. 65 



LIST OF ARTICLES DEPOSITED BY THE SMITHSOMAN 11^- 
STITUTION IN THE COEOOEAN ART-GALLEEY, WASH- 
INGTON. 

1. Portrait of the late Hon. William C. Prestou, of South Carolina, 
by G. P. A. Healy. 

2. Portrait of the late Ex-President John Tyler, of Virginia, by G. P. 
A. Healy, 1859. 

3. Full-length portrait of M. Guizot, of France, by G. P. A. Healy. 

4. Cast of a bas-relief of " Phoebus," from a marble found in the ruins 
of ancient Troy, in 1873, by Dr. Schliemann, of Athens, Greece, who 
presented it to the Smithsonian Institution. 

5. Marble head of Diana, (antique.) 

ENGRAVINGS AND ETCHINGS. 

1. Lioness and Young. Engraving, by J. F. Eidinger. 

2. Two engravings of deer. Engraving, by J. F. Eidinger. 

3. Silenus. Line engraving, by Bolsevert. 

4. Hercules. Line engraving, by Eottsseler. 

5. A Centaur instructing Achilles. Line engraving, by Bervic, after 
Eegnault. 

G. An Interior. Line engraving, by Vischer, after Ostade. 

7. A Family Concert. Line engraving, by J. G. Wille, after G. 
Schalken. 

8. Holy Family. Line engraving. (Artist unknown.) 

9. Holy Family. Line engraving, by B. Desnoyers, after Eaphael. 

10. Aurora. Line engraving, by Eaphael Morgheu, after Guido. 

11. An Old Beggar. Mezzotint, by Townley, after Dance. 

12. Christ Healing the Sick. Etching. (Artist unknown.) 

13. Cows. Etching, by. Eoos. 

14. Horses, (two.) Etching, by Paul Potter. 

15. Eleven etchings, by Eembrandt. 
IG. Fireside. Etchings, by Boissieu. 

17. Goats, (two.) Etchings, by Berghen. 

18. Eleven etchings, by Ostade and others. 

19. Twelve etchings, by Clodowiecki. 

20. The Nativity and Adoration of the Kings, by Henrich Goltzius. 

21. Bruggemann Album of Photographs, illustrating the altar screen 
in the cathedral at Schleswig. 

22. Photograph of a Memorial Tablet, executed in wood, by P. Claur- 
ren, of Satrup, a plain farmer. 

5 s 



66 



INDIAN VOCABULARIES CHOREA. 



LIST OF INDIAN VOCABULARIES RECEIVED FROM THE 
WHEELER EXPEDITION. 



1. Appendix to vocabularies of 


10. 


Ar-i-vai-pa. 


seven Indian languages. 


11. 


Acoma Pueblo Indians. 


2. Shoshone. 


12. 


Gohun, (Tonto-Apaches.) 


3. •Fi-Ute. 


13. 


Shoshone. 


4. Pah-Ute. 


14. 


Isletta, (Pueblo.) 


5. Pah-Ute. 


15. 


Tehua, (Pueblo.) 


C. Ute and Pah-vauts. 


16. 


Apache. 


7. Mojav6. 


17. 


Moquis. 


8. Hualapais. 


18. 


Navajo. 


9. Ute. 


19. 


Vallatoa, (Gome?;, Pueblo.) 



CIRCULAR IN REGARD TO THE DISEASE KNOWN AS 

" CHOREA." 

Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, D. C, January 1, 1875. 
Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, an eminent physician and physiologist of Phil- 
adelphia, asks the assistance of the Smithsonian Institution in obtain- 
ing any facts in regard to the disease known as chorea, or Saint Vitus's 
dance, and for this purpose has prepared the accompanying series of 
questions. 

The special object of the inquiry is to ascertain whether the assertion 
that black children are not affected with this disease is correct. 

Any data on this subject may be addressed to either the Smithsonian 
Institution, Washington, D. C, or Dr. S, Weir Mitchell, 1332 Walnut 
street, Philadelphia. 
As early information as possible is desired. 
Respectfully, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Director Smithsonian Institution. 



1. To what extent do you see chorea (of childhood) among whites? 

2. Is it found more in one locality than another*? 

3. At what season do the attacks come? 

4. How often have you seen chorea in blacks of^pure breed ? If pos- 
sible, give cases. 

5. How common is it in mulattoes? 

If you can get answers from other physicians, in addition to your own, 
It will be desirable. 

S. WEIR MITCHELL, M. D. 



EXCHANGES, 



67 



LITERAEY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Table shoicing the statistics of the exchanges in 1874. 



Ageut aud country. 



Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stocklaolm : 

Sweden 

Eoyal Danish Society of Copenhagen : 

Denmarli and Iceland 

Eoyal University of Norway, Christiania: 

Norway 

L. Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg: 

Russia 

Frederic Miiller, Amsterdam : 

Belgium 

Prof. Von Baumhiiuer, Bureau Scientifique Central N^erlandais 
Harlem : 

Holland and Batavia 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzic : 

Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Greece 

Gusrave Bossange, Paris : 

France and Algiers 

U. Hoepli, Eeale Istituto Lombard! di Scienze e Lettere, Milan : 

Italy 

William Wesley, London : 

Great Britain, British possessions in Asia, Africa, &c 

Other parts of the world : 

Australia 

Cuba 

Brazil 

Egypt 

Liberia - 

Total 



5 
4 
3 

7 
5 

5 
40 
11 

3 

30 

11 
2 
3 
1 
1 



131 



m 



35 

30 
20 
50 
35 

35 

280 
80 
20 

220 

80 
14 

20 



933 



1,050 

900 

600' 

1,500 

1,050 

1,050 

8,400 

2,400 

COO' 

6,600 

2, 400 
420 
600 
210 
210 



27, 990 



Besides these, smaller packages and live animals were sent to Ger- 
many, England, &c. In all, over ten thousand parcels, addressed to 
institutions aud individuals, were distributed. 

Government exchanges. 

Boxes. 

To German Emisire, Berlin 2 

To Canada... .r 9 

To Japan 5 

To Chili 2 

Total 18 



68 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



PACKAGES RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM EUROPE, 
ETC., IN 1B74, FOR DISTRIBUTION IN AMERICA. 



ai.aba:\ia. No. 

Mohlh : 
Barton Academy 1 

Tuscaloosa : 

Hospital for the Insane. 1 

University 1 

ARKANSAS. 

Little nock : 
Institution for Educating the Blind 1 

CALIFORNIA. 

Sacramento : 
California State Agricultural Society 1 
Geological Survey of Caliibruia 1 

Sail Francisco : 

Agricultural Society 1 

California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences 62 

Mayor of the city of San Francisco.. 1 
Mercantile Library Association 2 

Stockton : 
State Lunatic Asylum 1 

CONNECTICUT. 

Hartford : 

Connecticut State Agricultural Society 1 

Retreat for the Insane J 

State Library 2 

Young Men's Institute 1 

>" Litchfield : 

Spring Ilill Institution 1 

Middletown : 

General Hospital for the Insane 1 

Xew Haven : 

American Journal of Science and Arts 54 

American Oriental Society 32 

Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 86 

Museum of Yale College 1 

Shefdeld Scientific School 1 

Yale College 26 

Xortvich : 

Otis Library 1 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

Georgetown : 

Georgetown University 7 

Washington : 

Agriculture, Department of 138 

Board of Indian Commissioners 2 

liureau of Navigation 3 

Bureau of Ordnance 4 

Bureau of Statistics 23 

Census Bureau 9 

Coast Survey 62 

Columbia Hospital for Women 1 

Colunittia Institution lor the Deaf and 

Dumb 1 

Columbian University 2 

Commissioner of Education 2 

Engineer Depurttueat 2 



Washington, D. C. — Continued. No. 

Geological Survey of the Territories. . 5 

German Reading and Chess Club 1 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Howard University 1 

Hydrographic Office 8 

Interior Deiiartment 2 

Land-Office 9 

Library of Congress 35 

Light-House Board 1 

Medical Society of the District of Co- 
lumbia - 1 

National Academy of Science 47 

National Deaf-Mute College 2 

Nautical Almanac Office 7 

Navy Department 4 

Observatory 63 

Patent-Office 185 

Public schools 2 

Signal-Office 22 

State Department 3 

Surgeon- General's Office 136 

Swedish-Norwegian legation 1 

Territorial Legislature 1 

Treasury Department 5 

War Department 11 

Young Men's Christian Association. . . 1 

FLORIDA. 

Tallahassee : 

Academy 1 

GEORGIA. 

Athens : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Atlanta : 

Atlanta University 1 

Milledgeville : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Oxford : 

Emory College 1 

Savannah : 

Chatham Academy 1 

ILLINOIS. 

Bloomington : 

Illinois Natural History Society 3 

Carbondale : 

Southern Illinois Normal University. . 6 

Chicago : 

Chicago Academy of Sciences 82 

Oh icago Board of Trade 1 

Chicago Public Library 6 

Dearborn Observatory 5 

Mayor of the city of Chicago 1 

Young Men's Association Library 1 

Elgin : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Evanston : 

Northwestern University 1 

Jacksonville : 

Illinois Hospital for the Insane 1 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 69 

Packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution, &c. — Continued. 



Illinois — Continued. No. 

Peoria : 
Mercantile Library 1 

Springfield : 

Academy of Sciences 1 

State Library 1 

INDLVjSTA. 

Bloomington : 

Indiana University 1 

Indianapolis : 

Geological Survey of Indiana 4 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Indiana Horticultural Society 1 

Indiana Instiliution for Deaf-Mutes... 1 
Indiana Institution for Educating the 

Blind 3 

Indiana State Library 3 

New Albany : 

Theological Seminary 1 

IOWA. 

Burlington : 
Burlington University 1 

Des Moines : 
State Library 5 

Dubuque : 
German Theological Seminary 1 

Independence : 
Hospital for the Insane 1 

Iowa City : 

Geological Survey of Iowa 1 

Iowa State University 30 

Mount Pleasant : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Wesleyan University 1 

KANSAS. 

Lawrence : 
University 1 

Ossaicatamie : 
Hospital for the Insane 1 

Topelca : 

Kansas Academy of Science 1 

Kansas State Library 1 

KENTUCKY. 

Danville : 
Theological Seminary 1 

Frankfort: 

State geologist of Kentucky 1 

State Library 1 

Third Kentucky Hospital for the In- 
sane 1 

Hobb's Station : 
Hospital for the Insaue 1 

Hopkinsville : 
Second Kentucky Hospital for the In- 
sane 1 

Lebanon : 
Saint Mary's College 1 



Kentucky — Continued. No. 

Lexington : 
First Kentucky Hospital for Insane. . 2 
Kentucky Un iversity ,.. 1 

Russelville : 
Bethel College 1 

Shelbyville : 
Observatory of Shelby College 1 

LOUISLVNA. 

Baton Eouge : 
Academy 1 

Clinton : 

Louisiana Insane Asylum 1 

Kew Orleans : 

Lyceum Library 1 

Mayor of the city of New Orleans ' 1 

New Orleans Academy of Natural 

Sciences 40 

State Library 9 

MAINE. 

Augusta : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

State Library 3 

Bangor : 
Commissioner of Fisheries 2 

Brunsuick : 

Bowdoin College 3 

Historical Society of Maine 2 

Portland : 

Commissioner of Fisheries 1 

Portland Society of Natural History . . 36 

■■ < 
Waterville : 

Water ville College 2 

jMARYLAND. 

Annapolis : 

Maryland State Library 1 

Baltimore : 

Loyola College 1 

Maryland Historical Society 3 

Maryland Institute 3 

Mayor of the city of Baltimore 1 

Mercantile Library 1 

Newton University 1 

Odd Fellows' Library 1 

Peabody Institute 7 

Saint Mary's College 1 

Catonsrille : 

Maryland Hospital 1 

Eockville : 

Rockville Academy 1 

MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst : 
Amherst College 3 

Andovor : 
Theological Seminary 1 

Boston : 
American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 154 

American Social Science Association. 4 

American Statistical Association 10 

American Unitarian Association 2 

Board of State Charities 1 



70 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Faclcages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c. — Continued. 



Boston, Mass. — Contmuecl. No. 

' Boston Atlienneum 3 

Boston Hospital 2 

Boston Hospital for the Insane 2 

Boston Society of Natnral History .. . 220 

Bowilitcii Library 1 

Bureau of Statistics of Labor 1 

Christian Examiner 1 

Christian Register 2 

Gynjecological Society 1 

House of Correction 1 

^IcClcan Hosijital for the Insane 1 

Massachusetts Historical Society 13 

Massachusetts State Library 10 

Mayor of the city of Boston 1 

Medical Society 1 

Mercantile Library 1 

New England Historic Genealogical 

Society 4 

Perkins Institution for the Blind 3 

Public Library 20 

Camhridge : 

Atheuffium 1 

Harvard College 32 

Harvard College Herbarium 1 

Harvard College Observatory 31 

Law School Library 1 

Museum of Comparative Zoology.... 92 

Theological School Library ^ 1 

Jamaica Plain : 

Bussey Institution 16 

Xewton Centre . 

Newton Theological Institute 1 

Xorihampton : 

Clarke Institution for Deaf-Mutes 1 

Salem : 
American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science 33 

American Naturalist 2 

Essex Institute 100 

Peabody Academy of Science 78 

Taunton : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

JFiUiamstown : 

Williams College 1 

IForccster : 

American Antiquarian Society 24 

Free Institute of Technology 2 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Worcester Academy 1 

MICniGAX. 

Ann Arbor : 

Observatory 7 

University 1 

Detroit : 

Michigan State Agricultural Society. 7 

Public Library 1 

Review of Medicine and Pharmacy .. 3 

Saint Pliilip's College 1 

Kalamazoo : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Lansing : 

Michigan State Library 2 



MINNESOTA. No. 

Minneapolis : 
Minnesota Academy of Natural 
Sciences 3 

Saint Paul : 

Chamber of Commerce 1 

Minnesota Historical Society 10 

Minnesota State Library 1 

Saint Peters : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

MISSISSIPPI. 

Clinton : 
Mississippi College 1 

Jackson : 
Hospital for the Insane 2 

Oxford : 

University 1 

MISSOURI. 

Columiia : 
University of Missouri 1 

Fulton : 
Hospital for the Insane 1 

Saint Louis : 

County Hospital for the Insane 1 

Hospital for the Insane, (St. Vincent's) 1 

Law Library 1 

Mayor of the city of Saint Louis 1 

Public School Library 1 

Saint Louis Academy of Science 92 

State Board of Agriculture 2 

State Bureau of Geology and Mines.. 1 
University of Saint Louis 3 

NEBRASKA. 
Omaha : 
Hospital for the Insane 1 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Concord : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

New Hampshire Historical Society.. . 2 
State Library 1 

Exeter : 
Phillips's Exeter Academy 1 

Hanover : 

Dartmouth College 2 

Dartmouth Observatory 1 

Manchester : 
City Library 1 

NEW JERSEY. 

Burlington : 
Burlington College 1 

Ilohoken : 
Stevens Institute of Technology 1 

Xew Prunswtclc: 
Geological Survey of New Jersey 7 

Princeton : 
College of New Jersey 5 

Salem : 
Salem Academy 1 

Trenton : 
State Insane Hospital 1 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 71 

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &g. — Contiuued. 



NEW YOUK. No. 

Albany : 

Albany Institute 18 

Dudley Observatory 22 

Insurance Department 1 

New York State Agricultural Society. 25 

New York State Library 43 

New Yoi'k State Medical Society 2 

New York State Museum of Natural 

History 8 

New York State University 5 

State Board of Charities 1 

Auburn : 

Criminal Hospital for the Insane 1 

Theological Seminary 1 

BlackivelVs Island : 

City Hospital for the Insane 1 

Brooklyn : 

Mercantile Library 1 

Buffalo : 

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences.. .31 

Grosvenor Library 1 

Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. . . 1 

Medical and Surgical Journal 1 

Young Men's Association 1 

Canton : 

Saint Lawrence University 1 

Clinton : 
Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton 

College 3 

Flatbmh : 

Kings County Hospital for the Insane, 1 

Hamilton : 

Madison University ., 1 

Ithaca : 

Cornell College 4 

Jamestoion : 

Jamestown Microscopical Society ... - 4 

Lima : 

Wesleyan Seminary 1 

Newburgh : 
Theological Semiuary of the Associate 

Reformed Church „ 1 

New York: 

American Bible Society 1 

American Bureau of Mines 1 

American Chemist 6 

American Geographical and Statistical 

Society 54 

American Institute 34 

American Institute of Architects 4 

American Museum of Natural History 12 

American Society of Civil Engineers. 20 

Anthropological Institute of New York 20 

Apprentices' Library 1 

Astor Library 16 

Bavarian consulate 1 

Bloomingdale Hospital for the Insane 1 

City Hospital for the Insane 1 

Columbia College 1 

Engineering and Miniog Journal 15 

Episcopal Theological Seminary 1 



New York, N. Y. — Continued. No. 

Institution for the Blind 2 

Journal of Mining and Engineeriug.. 1 

Journal of Psychological Medicine 1 

Liberal Christian 2 

Lyceum of Natural History 97 

Manufacturer and Builder 7 

Mayor of New York 1 

Medical Journal 1 

Medical Record 1 

Mercantile Library Association 3 

Metropolitan Board of Health 1 

New York Academy of Medicine 4 

New York Handel-Zeitung 1 

New York Historical Society 2 

New York 'I'ribune . .' 1 

Observatory 1 

Prison Association 1 

Royal Swedish-Norwegian consulate. 1 

Sanitarian 10 

School of Mines 9 

Union Theological Seminary 1 

United States Sanitary Commission.. 10 

University of the city of New York.. 4 

Poughkeepsie : 

Hudson River Insane Hospital 1 

VSssar College 2 

Randall's Island : 

House of Refuge 1 

Rochester : 

Theological Semiuary 1 

University 1 

Schenectady : 

Union College 3 

Troif : 

Marshall Infirmary 1 

Utica : 

State Lunatic Asylum 1 

Ward's Island : 
Ward's Island Emigrant Hospital for 

the Insane 1 

NORTH CAROLINA. 

Chapel Hill : 

University 1 

Davidson College : 

College Library 1 

Raleigh : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Trinity College : 

Theological School ..., 1 

OHIO. 
Athens : 

Ohio University ~ 1 

Carthage : 

Lougview Hospital for the Insane.. . 1 

Qincinnati : 

Astronomical Observatory 18 

Hamilton County Lunatic Asylum.. . 1 

Mayor of the city of Cincinnati 1 

Mercantile Library Association 2 

Ohio Mechanics' Institute 1 



72 LITERAKY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Packages received hy tlie Smithsonian Institution^ &c. — Continued. 



Cincinnati, Ohio — Continued. No. 

Public Library 5 

Saiut Xavier College 1 

Cleveland : 

University 1 

Colunibus : 

Geological Survey of Ohio 4 

Horticultural Society 1 

Hospital for the lusane 2 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture 60 

Ohio State Library 9 

Dayton : 

Hospital for the Insane I 

Delaware: 
Ohio Wesleyan University 1 

Gambler : 
Keny on College 1 

Granville : 
Denuisou University 1 

Netv Athens ; 
Franklin College 1 

Neu'hurgh : 
North Ohio Lunatic Asylum 1 

North Bend : « 

Horticultural Society of Ohio 1 

Ohcrlin : 
Oberlin College 1 

Springfield : 
Wittenberg College 1 

Tiffin : 

Heidelberg Colle ge 1 

Theological Seminary of the German 

Reformed Church 1 

OREGON. 

Portland : 
Hospital for the lusane 1 

PENNSYLVANIA. 

Allegheny : 

Allegheny Observatory 2 

Western State Penitentiary of Penn- 
sylvania 1 

Western Theological Seminary 1 

Danville : 
State Hospital for the Insane 1 

Dxxmont : 
Western Hospital for the Insane 1 

East on : 
Lafayette College 1 

Getlyshurgh : 
Theological Seminary 1 

Harrisburgh : 

Adjutant General 1 

Harrisburgh Academy 1 

Medical Society of the State of Penn- 
sylvania 2 

State Library 3 

Kellyville : 
Woodbrook Retreat 1 

Mercersburgh : 
Theological Seminary of the German 
Reformed Church 1 



Pennsylvania — Continued. No. 

Philadelphia : 

Academy of Natural Sciences 197 

American Entomological Society 10 

American Journal of Conchology 4 

American Philosophical Society 119 

Board of Public Education 1 

Central High School 3 

Franklin Institute 42 

American Pharmaceutical Association 34 
Department for the Insane, Alms- 
house 1 

Friends' Insane Hospital I 

German Society Library 1 

Girard College 3 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania.. . 4 

House of Refuge 1 

Library Company 2 

Library of Pennsylvania Hospital 3 

Mayor of the city of Philadelphia 1 

Medical Times 10 

Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane 1 

Pennsylvania Institution for the Blind 2 
Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf 

and Dumb 1 

Society for Alleviating the Miseries of 

Public Prisons 1 

University of Pennsylvania 2 

Wagner Free Institute of Science 9 

Pittsburgh : 

German Library 1 

Sharo7i : 

Observatory I 

South Bethlehem : 

Lehigh University 1 

Washington : 

Washington College 1 

RHODE ISLAND. 

Providence : 

AtheuLEum 2 

Brown University . _ 3 

Butler Hospital for the Insane 1 

Rhode Island Historical Society 1 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Charleston : 

Chariest on- Library Society 2 

Elliott Society of Natural History. . . . 18 

South Carolina Historical Society 1 

Columbia : 

South Carolina College 1 

Theological Seminary 1 

TENNESSEE. 

Columbia : 

Jackson College 1 

Knoxville : 

East Tennessee University 1 

Lebanon : 

Cumberland University 1 

Marysville : 

Southwest Theological Seminary 1 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 73 

PacTcages received hy the Smithsonian Institution, &c, — Continued. 



Tennessee — Continued. No. 

NasliviUe : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Institution for the Blind 1 

University 1 

TEXAS. 

Austin : 
Hospital for the Insane 1 

Chappell Hill : 
Soul6 University 7 

UTAH. 

Salt Lalce City : 
University of Deseret 1 

VERMONT. 

Bristol : 
Orleans County Society of Natural 
Sciences 28 

Burlington : 
University of Vermont 3 

Montpelier : 
State Library 5 

VIRGINIA. 

Charlottesville : 
University of Virginia 3 

Emory : 
Emory and Henry College 1 

Fair/ax : 
Theological Seminary 1 

Hampden- Sidney : 
Union Theological Seminary 1 

Bichmond : 

Medical Society of Virginia 1 

Richmond College 1 

State Library 4 

University 1 

Staunton : 
Western Insane Hospital 1 

Weston : 
West Virginia Hospital for the Insane. 1 

Williamshurgli : 
Eastern Insane Hospital 1 

WISCONSIN. 

Beloit : 
Beloit College 1 

JanesviUe : 
Wisconsin Institution for the Educa- 
tion of the Blind 6 

Madison : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

State Historical Society of Wisconsin. G 

University of Wisconsin 1 

Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts, 

and Letters 10 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society. 16 

Miltvaukee : 

Catholic Seminary 1 

Natural History Society 3 



Wisconsin — Continued. No. 

Neenah : 
Scandinavian Library Association... 4 

Oshkosh : 
Northern Hospital for the Insane.... 2 

Bacine : 
College Library 1 

WASHINGTON TERIUTORY. 

Steilacoom : 
Insane Asylum ^ 1 

BRITISH AMERICA. 

Guelph, Ontario : 

Ontario School of Agriculture 2 

Kingston, Ontario : 

Botanical Society of Canada 1 

Ottawa, Ontario: 

Academy of Natural Sciences 6 

Toronto, Ontario : 

Board of Agriculture 1 

Board of Arts and Manufactures 1 

Canadian Institute 15 

Commissioners of Agriculture and Arts 1 

Congregational Theological Institute. 1 

House of Assembly 2 

Knox College 1 

Literary and Historical Society 1 

Observatory 5 

Toronto Globe 2 

Trinity College 1 

University of Toronto 2 

Halifax, Nova Scotia : 

Literary and Scientific Society 1 

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sci- 
ences 11 

Charlottetown, Prince Edward 
Island : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

Chamhly, Quebec: 

College Library 1 

Lennoxville, Quebec : 
Bishop's College 1 

Montreal, Quebec : 

Board of Agriculture and Arts 1 

Board of Agriculture of Lower Canada 1 

Canadian Entomologist 1 

College Library 1 

Entomological Society 1 

Geological Survey of Canada 14 

McGill University 1 

Natural History Society 48 

Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. 1 

Saint Mary's College 1 

Quebec, Quebec : 

Laval University 1 

Literary and Historical Society 9 

Seminary of Quebec - . 1 



74 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Paclcages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c. — Continued. 



IXDIVIDU^VLS. 

No. 

Abbo, Dr. Cleveland 5 

Ajjassiz, Prof. A 16 

Allen, Prof. J. A 4 

Alpine, W.W 2 

Alvord, Briy.-Geu. Benj 1 

Augerer, A. W 8 

Anthony, .Jobu G 2 

Babcock, Prof 1 

Babington, Prof. C 1 

Baird,Prcf. H. M 1 

Baird, Prof. S. F 58 

Baker, Dr. Joseph 1 

Bancroft, Hon. George 1 

Bannister, Dr. Henry M I 

Barker, Dr. Fordyce 1 

Barlow, Hon. Francis C 1 

Barnard, General J. G 2 

Barnard, Prof F. A. P 1 

Bebb, M. S 2 

Bessels, Dr. Euiil 1 

Bethnue, Rev. J. S 3 

Binney,W. G 5 

Blake^Prof. W. P 2 

Bland, Thomas 2 

Blodget, L 1 

Boardmau, George A 1 

Bolander, Prof H. N 2 

Borges, A. P. De Carvalho 1 

Bowers, Rev. S 1 

Brendel, Dr. F 2 

Brewer, Dr. T. M 1 

Brush, Prof G.J 8 

Bnokland. George 1 

Buckley. Dr 1 

Burbank, Prof L. S 1 

Campbell, Prof. John 1 

Cauby, W. N 4 

Carey, Henry C 2 

Carpenter, Dr. P. P 3 

Chain, J . A 1 

Chandler, Prof C. F 2 

Chase, Phiny Earl 1 

Chiekeriug, Prof. J. W 1 

Clarke, J. L 1 

Clarke, Prof F. W 1 

Cofiin, Prof. J. H. C 3 

Conrad, T. A 1 

Cook, Piof. George H 5 

Cooiier, Dr. J. G 1 

Cope, Prof E. D 8 

Coues, Dr. i:iliott 13 

Cox, E. T 10 

Curtis, Dr. Josiah , .. . 1 

Curtis, Rev. A 1 

Curtiss, Dr. T. B 1 

Cutting, Hiram B 1 

Cutts, R. D 2 

Dall,W. H 8 

Dana, Prof J. D 48 

Daniels, Dr 1 

Dart, General W 1 

Davids, H 1 

Dawson, Prof J. W 5 

Dodge, Charles R 1 

Drai)er, Dr. Henry 4 



IxDi viDUALS — Continued. 

No. 

Eastman, Prof 1 

Eaton, Dr. Daniel E 2 

Edwards, H. W 2 

Egleston, Prof. T 4 

Elliott,E. B 1 

Ellis, J. B 1 

Emory, General W. H 1 

Eudlich, Dr. F. M 3 

Engelmanu, Dr. Geo 7 

Ericsson, Capt. John 1 

Fisher, Dr. G.J 2 

Foreman, Dr. E 2 

Fr6mont, General J. C 5 

Frich,Rev. ,J. B 2 

Gabb, William 1 

Graham, Col 1 

Gale, Dr. L. D 1 

Gardner, Jas. A 1 

Geelmu vden. Rev 2 

Genth, Dr. F. A 3 

Gerard, W.R 1 

Gilbert,G.K 3 

Gill, Prof Theo 14 

Glover, Prof. T 1 

Goodall,G. L 1 

Goode, G. Brown 4 

Gould, Dr. B.A 1 

Grant, Gen. U. S., President U. S 2 

Gray.Prof Asa 28 

Greve, T 1 

Griffin, G. W 1 

Grinnell , Henry 4 

Gross, Dr. S. W 1 

Grote, A. R 1 

Guyot, Prof A 9 

Hageu, Albert D 1 

Hagen,Prof H. 7 

Haldeman, Prof S. S 1 

Hall, Brigham 1 

Hall, Prof. Asaph 1 

Hall, Prof. Jas 19 

Halvorsen, Rev. H 2 

Harper & Brothers 1 

Hart, Prof. John S 1 

Havden,Dr. F. V 61 

Hedrick, B. S 1 

Henry, Prof. Jos 26 

Hilgard, Prof. E. W 2 

Hilgard, Prof. J. E 1 

Hill, G. W '. 1 

llinrichs,Prof G 29 

Hitchcock, Prof 1 

Hitchcock, Prof. E 1 

Hitz.J 1 

Hjort, Rov. O. J 2 

Hoar,JudgeE. R 1 

Hodge, Rev. Prof 1 

Holden.Prof E. G 3 

Holden, William 2 

Hooper.T 1 

Horn, Dr. G. H 3 

Hough, Prof F. B 2 

Howe,Dr. S.G 1 

Howell, S. B 2 

Humphreys, General A. A 3 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 75 

Pacliages received by the Smithsonia7i Institution, (&c. — Continued. 



Individuals— Continued. 

No. 

Hunt, T. Sterry 5 

Hyatt, Prof. A 1 

Jacobsou, Rev. A 2 

Jarvis, Dr. Edward 30 

Jewett, Col. E 4 

Kennedy, .J. G. C 1 

Kerr, Piof. W. C 1 

King, Clarence 4 

Kingston, Prof. G. C 3 

Kirchley, Otto 1 

Kirchof, Theodore 1 

Klippart , John H 1 

Koren, Rev. V 2 

Krobn , Re v. J 1 

Langley, Prof 1 

Larsen, Prof. L 2 

Lawrence, G. N 3 

Lea, Dr. Isaac 18 

Le Baron, William 1 

Le Conte,Dr. John L 18 

Leidy , Dr. Joseph 14 

Leonard, Prof. T. M 1 

Lesley, Prof. J. P 2 

Lesquerenx, Prof. L 3 

Lintner, J. H 1 

Logan, Sir W. E , 4 

Looinis, Prof. E 9 

Lovering, Prof. J 3 

Lyman, Theodore 3 

Maack, Dr. G. A 1 

Maclntyre, T 1 

Magelsen, Rev. C. F 4 

Magelson, Rev. Chas 2 

Marion, Prof. J 12 

Marsh, Prof. O. C 7 

Matile.G. A 1 

McChesuey, J. H 2 

McMasters, ^Eueas 1 

McMurtrie, Dr.W 1 

Meek,F.B 29 

Meigs, Dr. J. A 2 

Milner, J. W 1 

Mitchell, Maria 1 

Mobr, Charles 1 

Morgan, L. H 3 

Morse, Prof. E. S 1 

Morse, Prof. E. T 1 

Muns, Re V. J. B 2 

Myer, General A.J 10 

Newberry, Dr. J. S 8 

Newcom b, Prof. S 7 

Newton, Prof. H. A 3 

Norris, Dr 1 

Nourse, Prof. J 1 

Nye. Hon. Jas. W 2 

Oaker, Hon. L 2 

Olmstead, Rev. L 1 

Orton,Prof. J 1 

Osborne, John W 1 

Osteu Sacken, Baron 8 

Ottesen, Re v. J. A 2 

Packard, Dr. A. S., ir 14 

Paine, Dr. M : 1 

Palmer, Dr. E 2 

Parker, Dr. Peter 2 



Individuals — Con tin ued . 

No. 

Peale, Mrs. Franklin 1 

Peirce, Prof. B 3 

Pennock, Mrs. C 1 

Peters, Dr. C. H. F 5 

Post, J 1 

Pourtales, Count L. F. de 5 

Preuss, Rev. H. A 2 

Putnam, F.W..... 3 

Ransom, Col. L 1 

Rasmussen, Rev. P. A 2 

Ray, Dr. Isaac 1 

Raymond, Dr. R. W 3 

Reque, Rev. S. S 3 

Ridgeway, Robert 4 

Riley, Chas. V 4 

Ritter, Dr. J 1 

Robertson, Dr. A 1 

Rockwell, A.P 2 

Rockwell, Dr. W. H 1 

Rogers, Prof. W. B 2 

Ross, Dr. Alex. Milton 8 

Rothwell,Dr. P 3 

Safibrd, T. H 1 

Saftbrd, Prof. J 1 

Salisbury, Prof. E. E 2 

Sandford, John E 1 

Sands, Rear- Admiral B. F 4 

Saunders, Wm 2 

Schieffelin, H. M 1 

Schott, C. A 1 

Schuster, Maurice 2 

Schwarz-Seuborn, Baron 1 

Scudder, S.H 3 

Silliman, Prof. B 11 

Smith, Prof. Hamilton L 3 

Smith, Prof. J. Lawrence 1 

Smith, Prof. J. J 2 

Snow, Dr.' E 6 

Shaler, Prof. N. S 3 

Spinner, Hon. F. E 2 

Squier, E. G 2 

Stearns, R. E. C 3 

Steindachuer, Prof 2 

Stein, F. R 1 

Stenersen, Hon. Olaf 1 

Sterling, Clarence 3 

Stevenson, James 2 

Stone, Ormond 1 

Strecker, Hermann 1 

Stub, Rev. H. G 2 

Swallow,G.C 2 

Thomas, Prof. Cyrus 1 

Thomson, J. H 4 

Thornton, Sir Edward 1 

Tietze, Dr. E 3 

Torgersen, Rev. T. A 2 

True, Dr. N.J 1 

Tryon, Dr. G. W., jr 2 

Tuckerman, Prof. E 1 

Valdeland, Rev. O 2 

Vandewond, .lohn 5 

Vasey, Prof. George 1 

Verrill, Prof. A. E 4 

Von Raumbach, Maurice 1 

Wagner, Prof. B 1 



76 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Paclcages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c. — Continued. 



Individuals — Continued. 

No. 

Waterhouse, Dr. A 1 

Watson, Prof. J. C 1 

Watson, Sereno 1 

Weimuth, T 1 

Wells, Hon. David A 1 

Wells, Walter 1 

Western «S: Co 8 

Wheatley, Chas. M 1 

Wheeler, Lieut. G. M 1 

White,Dr. C. A 4 

Whitney, Prof. J. D 13 

Whitney, Prof. W. D 14 

Whymper, F 1 

Williams, Duane 1 

Williamson, J. A 1 



iNDiviDU^iiS — Continued. 

No. 

Wilkes, Admiral Chas 1 

Williamson, Prof. J. T 1 

Winchell, Prof. A 7 

Winchell, Prof. N. H 1 

Winlock, Prof. J 2 

Wood, Dr. Horatio C 1 

Woodbridse, W. C 1 

Woodward, Dr. J.J G 

Woodwortli, Dr. John M 1 

Worthen, Prof. A. H 9 

Wulfsberg, Rev. E 2 

Yarrow, Dr. H 1 

Young, Clarence B 9 

Young, Hon. E 1 

Young, Prof. C.A 1 



KECAPITULATION. 

Total addresses of institutions 462 

Total addresses of individuals 23S 

750 

Total number of parcels to institutions 3, 221 

Total number of parcels to individuals ' 1, 105 

4. 326 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 77 

CLASSIFIED EECORD OF MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOG- 
ICAL MATERIAL PRESERVED IN THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION. 

[For list of regular monthly reports see report for 1873.] 

AURORAS. 

Auroral observations made at Ogdensburgh, New York, 1852-'54. 

Aurora observed at Bangor, Me., December, 1851. 

Aurora observed at Boston August 20, 1851. 

Aurora observed at Camden, Me., September 10, 1851. 

Auroras observed at Dartmouth College, N. H., July 12, 1853-March 

16, 1854. 

Auroras observed at sea 1848-'53. 

Auroral records, 1849-'53. 

Notices of auroras, 1847-'59. 

Sketch of aurora observed at Washington July 22, 18G8. 

Alexander J Prof. S. — Sketch of aurora observed at Princeton, N. J. 

Andreivs, Luman. — Account of aurora observed October 14, 1870, at 
Southington, Conn. 

Ashhijj M. V. — Notice of aurora observed August 8, 1872, at Afton, 
Iowa. 

Astrop^ E. F. — Aurora observed in Brunswick County, April 7, 1847; 
auroral display September 29, 1851. 

Averhecic, A. — Aurora observed July 9, 1872, at Saint Louis, Mo. 

Babcocl'j E. — Account of aurora observed August 8, 1872, at Boons- 
borough, Iowa. 

Bache, Prof. — Aurora observed at Bath, Me., September 29, 1852. 

Barnard, A. D. — Aurora observed at San Buenaventura, Cal., June 

17, 1870. 

Bassnet, Thomas, — Auroras seen at Ottawa Maj- 24 and 25, 1853, May 
29, 1840. 

Bessey, Charles E. — Auroras observed at Ames, Iowa, in June, 1871. 

Bidwell, Br. E. C. — Auroras observed at Keene, Ohio, February 19, 
March 1, 1852. 

Birneij, J. G. — Auroras observed at Lower Saginaw, Mich., in April, 
1849. 

Blodgett, Lor in. — Aurora observed at Sugar Grove, Pa., September 
29, 1851. 

Boicman, John. — Auroras observed at Baldwinsville October 4, 1855. 

Brcicer, W. H. — Auroras observed at Ovid, N. Y., from December, 
1852, to May, 1854. 

Breicster, Alfred. — Notice of aurora observed at Tamworth, N. H., 
July 17, 1872. 

Bro7cn, H. H. — Aurora observed at Dakota City, Nebr., July 10, 1868. 

Buclclandj D. — Aurora observed at Brandon, Vt., May 2, 1855. 



78 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Campbell, G. — Auroras observed at Moose Factory, June, 1850. 

Clarice, John. — Auroras observed at Bowling Green, Ohio, in 1872. 

Cllft^ Henry A. — Harbor Grace, K. F., account of February aurora ; 
auroral notes for July, 1872 5 aurora observed August 25, 1872. 

Cohb, W. R. — Aurora observed at Wellsborough, Pa., April 15, 1869 ; 
display of auroras observed in Philadelphia August 3, 1872. 

CoueJi, E. D. — Auroras observed at Newfield, N. J., in 1840. 

Curtis, W. W. — Auroras observed at Rocky Eun, Wis., in 1872. 

Dayton, E. A. — Auroras observed at Madrid, iSf. Y., March. 1849. 

De Haven, Lieutenant. — Auroras observed during Arctic exiiedition 
1850-'51. 

Dewey, C. — Auroras observed at Rochester, N. Y., September, 1851, 
February, 1852. 

Dolan. — Account of aurora observed in I^ew York April 15, 1SG9. 

Edwards, J. — Aurora observed at Lima, Pa, INIarch, 1849, September, 
1851. 

Fairhanl:s, G. W. — Auroras observed at Washington, D. C, Septem- 
ber 29, 1851. 

Fairchild, Jno. P. — Auroras observed at Seneca Falls, J^. Y., Sep- 
tember, 1851. 

Favel, P. F. — Notes relative a, la formation des aurore boreales. 

Foster, Wm., jr. — Aurora observed at Providence, R. I., April 15, 
. 1869. 

Garland, J. G. — Aurora observed at Biddeford, Me., February 19, 
1852. . 

Gihhes, Lewis B. — Aurora observed at Charleston, S. C, September 
29, 1851. 

Gibbon, Lardner. — Account of aurora of August 7, 1872. 

Grant, Benjamin. — Aurora observed at Erie, Pa., August 11, 1869. 

Gronciterj, L. — Auroras observed at Germantowu, Ohio, April, 1852. 

Guest, W. E. — Auroras observed at Ogdeusburgh, N. Y., February, 
1850-September, 1851. 

Haas, Henry. — Register of all the auroras observed at Depauville, N. 
Y., from 1866 to 1872. 

Hall, Joel 8. — Auroras observed at Athens, 111., September 20, 1851. 

Haywood, John. — Westerville, Ohio, auroras seen in August and Octo- 
ber, 1872. 

Herrick, E. C. — Aurora observed at New Haven, Conn., June 11, 1852. 

Herriclc, J. — xiuroras observed at Hampden, Me., November 18, 1848. 

Hoadley, C. J. — Auroras observed at Hartford, Conn., May 12, 1849. 

Holcomb, Amasa. — Auroras observed at Southwick, Mass., 1837-1853; 
auroras observed at Southwick, Mass., March and April, 1850. 

Horr, Asa. — Auroras observed at Dubuque, Iowa, September 29, 
1851. 

Hotchlciss, J. — Auroras observed at Mossy Creek^ Va., February 19, 
1852. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 79 

Hough, Dr. F. B.— Auroras observed at Somerville, N. Y., 1837-1851. 

Elide, Thos. G. P. — Aurora observed at East Windsor Hill, Conn., 
June 11, 1852. 

Jennings, S. K. — Auroras observed at Erie, Ala., Septeml>er 29, 1851. 

Johnson, E. ^y. — Aurora observed November 17, 1849, at Grand 
Eapids, Mich. 

Jones, C. P. — Auroras observed at Valley Forge, Pa., January 19, 
1852. 

Joslyn, H. — Auroras observed at Waukegan, 111., Ai>\i\ 13, 1819. 

Kidder, L. D. — Aurora observed at Whitfield, N. H., October 13, 
18G9. 

Lapham, I. A. — Auroras observed at Milwaukee, Wis., February 15, 
1852. 

Lefferts, John. — Auroras observed at Lodi, N. Y., February 19, 1852. 

Lefroy, J. H. — Abstracts of auroral observations ; auroral notes ; 
auroras observed at Toronto, August, 1849 ; general register of appear- 
ances of auroras borealis, &c., from January 1, 1848, to May 31, 1853. 
Second report of auroral observations, 1850-51. 

Lewis, B. B. — Theory of auroras. 

Loomis, Elias. — The aurora borealis, or jjolar light, its phenomena 
and laws. 

McCUntock. — Auroras observed May 19, 1870. 

Major, J. — List of books and ships' logs examined for auroras. 

Maries, Corrydon. — Auroras observed at Manchester, Pa., September 
1849-February, 1851. 

Marsh, C. C. — Auroras observed at Oswego, N. Y., February 19, 1852. 

Mead, S. B. — Auroras observed at Augusta, 111., February 18 and 
September, 1851 ; January 19, 1852 ; May 24, 1853. 

Mitchell, Hon. W. — Auroras observed at Nantucket, Mass., 1844-1853. 

Moss, C. S. — Aurora observed at Amboy, 111., April 2, 1869. 

Mudge, B. F. — Aurora observed at Manhattan, Kans., August 8, 1872. 

Neickirk, B. M. — Auroras observed at Laporte, Ind. 

Osborne, Gapt. Sherard. — Remarks on auroral light in Arctic Zone. 

Peelor, David. — Auroras observed at Johnstown, Pa., October 2G, 
1870. 

Phelps, R. H. — Auroras observed at Windsor, Conn., February 19, 
1852. 

PinJcham, M. S. — Aurora observed at Millbridge, Me., February 4, 
1872. 

Poole, Henry. — Auroras observed at Albion Mines, N. S., in 1850 ; re- 
semblance of reflected light to aurora. 

Prescott, W. — Auroras observed at Concord, N. H. 

Prince, Geo. — Auroras observed at Thomaston, Me., March, April, 
1850. 

Redding, Thos. B. — Auroral display at Newcastle, Ind., June 18, 1871. 

Rejusar, Thomas. — Aurora observed at Newton, N. J., April 15, 1809. 



80 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Rice, E. — Auroras observed at Attleboroiigli, Mass., Jauuarj", 1851. 

Bobcrtfion, Titos. — Auroras observed April, 1850. 

Eoulston, Andrew. — Auroras observed at Freeport, Pa., iu 1849, 1850. 

Salisburi/, 0. E. — Auroras observed at Buffalo, X. Y., in 1853. 

Shields, liobert. — Auroras observed at Belle Centre, Ohio, September, 
1853. 

JSimmons, G. — Auroras observed at Lacbine in September, 1850. 

Sisson, Rodman. — Aurora observed at Factory ville. Pa., March 19, 
18G8 ; auroras observed at Scrantou, Pa., October, 1871 ; show of auro- 
ras August 3, 1872. 

8maUwood, Doctor. — Auroras observed at Saint Martin's, February 
19, 1852. 

Steele, G. E. — Aurora observed at Homestead, Mich., August 4, 1865. 

Steiner, l)r. Lewis H. — Auroras observed at Frederick, Md., Septem- 
ber 29, 1851. 

Stevens, Dr. R. P. — Auroras observed at Ceres, Pa., April 6 and 8, 
1870. 

Stetcart, A. P. — Aurora observed at Lebanon, Tenn., September 29, 
1851. 

Swift, Lewis. — Aurora observed at Marathon, N. Y., April IG, 1869. 

Warne, Geo. — Auroras observed at Independence, Iowa, August, 
1872 ; auroras observed in 1872. 

Whitconib, Thomas 3L — Auroral display of July 21, 1871, Union Eidge, 
W. T. 

WincheU, A. — Auroras observed in Eutaw, Ala., September 29, 1851. 

Wittfi, 2L E. — Auroras observed January 31 and February 7, 1872. 

Withrow, Thomas F. — Auroras observed at Station Horner, Ohio, 
February 17, 1852. 

Young, J. A. — Account of aurora observed September 29, 1857, at 
Camden, S. C. 

INSTRUxMENTS. 

Apparatus for recording earthquakes. 

Comparative value of certain varieties of cloth for covering the wet 
bulb of the hygrometer. 

Diagram of rain-gauge used at Snowville, Va. 

Lippincott's vapor index, a psychrometrical calculator. 

Remarks upon the barometer and rules for its observation. 
- Rules to be observed in management of typo-barograph. 

Woodrnlf's portable barometer. 

Storm rain-gauge designed by G. J. Symons for observing rate of fall. 
' Beck. — Description of recording barographs, thermographs, and ane- 
mographs. 

Craiff, B. F. — Comparison of ten of Green's barometers. 

Fenton, Elisha. — Description of hygrometer. 

Hough, G. W. — Desciiption of automatic registry and printing ba- 
rometer. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 81 

"^ Eocdel, W. D. — Sketch of self-registering thermometer. 

Stephenson, W. J. — Account of electro-magnetic indicator. 

Sternberg, George M. — Imi^roved anemometer. 

Wait, S. E. — Sketch of proposed snow gauge. 

Williams, E. G. — Comparison of Mason's hygrometer with Boehlen 

and Staehlon's. 

METEOES. 

Alaska. — Account of meteors at Sitka, 1868, Dwight Hurlbut, and J. 
J. Blakemore. 

Auhier, J. M. — Meteors observed from Saint Xavier's College, New 
York, November 14, 18G4. 

Barnard, A. i).— Meteor observed October 20, 1873, at Veiitnra, Cal. 

Beclcicifh, W. — Meteors observed at Olathe, Kans., November, 1866. 

Beits, Henry. — Account of meteors observed at Weston, Conn., 1867. 

Boehmer, George H. — August meteors observed in Colorado Springs, 
Colo., 1873. 

Boerner, Charles G. — Meteors observed at Yevay, Ind., October 24, 
November 10, 12, 1870. 

Meteoric observations at Yevay, Ind., 1868. 

Observations of August shower of meteors, 1871. 

Brewer, F. P. — Meteors observed at Ealeigh, N. C, November, 1866. 

Carleton, General J. H. — Account of meteorites in Mexico. 

Ghappelsmith, John. — Meteors observed at New Harmony, Ind., No- 
vember, 1866-67. 

Chase, Milton. — Meteors observed at Kalamazoo, Mich., November, 
1866. 

CUngman, T. L. — Account of meteor observed at Washington, August 
2, 1860. 

Coles, Isaac. — Meteors observed at Glen Cove, November, 1868. 

Deckner, Fred. — Meteors observed at Atlanta, Ga., November, 1866. 

Belaney, John. — Account of meteorite observed at Saint John's, N. F. 

Edi, James. — Meteors observed at Vienna, Wis., November, 1866. 

Fendler, A. — Meteors observed at Alleuton, Mo., November, 1866. 

Fergus, Thomas R. — Meteors observed at West Chester, Pa., Novem- 
ber, 1866. 

Forshey, C. G. — Meteors observed at Galveston, Tex., November, 1866. 

Gantt, Dr. W. ^.—Meteors observed at Chapel Hill, Tex,, November, 
1866. 

Gardiner, J. H. — Meteors observed at Newburgh, N. Y., November, 
1866. 

Gibhs, George. — Meteors observed at Eichfield Springs, N. Y., August 
24, 1869. 

Grinnan, A. G. — jNIetcors observed at Orange, Ya., November 10, 1866. 

Eancc, E. — Meteors observed ta Falsingtou, Pa., November, 1866. 

Holmes, E. D. — Meteors observed at Grand Eaipds, Mich., November 
13, 1866. 
6 s 



82 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Uoplcins, A. — Meteors observed at Willianistown, Mass., November 12, 
13, 18fiG. 

Horr, J)r. Asa. — Meteors at observed, Dubuque, Iowa, November, 
18GG. 

Iliiclson, A. T. — Meteors observed at Lyons, Iowa, November, 1866. 

Hi/att, A. — Meteors observed at Salem, Mass., September 29, 1868. 

Ingram, J. — Meteors observed at Vinelaud, N. J., August 24, 1869, 

Johnson, Professor J. — Meteors observed at ]Middletown, Oouii., No- 
vember, 1866. 

Keenan, T. J. E. — Account of meteors observed at Bahala, ]\Iiss. 

Knight, B. T. — Account of meteors observed at Philadelphia, August 
24, 1869. 

Lnpham, I. A. — Meteors observed at Milwaukee, Wis., November, 1866, 
1867. 

McClune, James. — Meteoric shower at Philadelphia, November 14, 1867. 

Major, J. — List of books and ship's logs examined for meteors. 

Martin, Samuel D. — Meteors observed in Clarke County, Kentucky, 
November, 1866. 

Moore, Albert. — Meteors observed at Gren ula. Miss., November, 1866. 

Morris, 0. W. — Meteors observed in New York, November 13, 1866. 

Mndfje, B. F. — Meteors observed at Manhattan, Kans,, November, 1866. 

Nason, Elias. — Meteors observed at North Billerica, Mass., November, 
1866. 

Fcwton, Professor. — November meteors, 

Parker, J. 1). — meteoric display at Steuben, 3Ie., November, 1864, 
1866, 1867. 

Parlihurst, R. il/.— Meteors observed at Brooklyn, Mo., 1866. 

Pratt, W. II. — Meteors observed November 14, 1868, at Davenport, 
Iowa. 

Raser, John Heijl. — Meteors observed at Reading, Pa., November, 1866. 

Redding, Thomas B. — Meteors observed at Newcastle, Ind,, November, 
1864, 

Richards, W. M. — Meteors observed at Berlin, Wis,, November, 1866. 

Robinson, A. — Meteors observed at Androscoggin, Me., November, 
1866. 

Rogers, F. M. — ^Meteors observed at Throg's Neck, N. Y., November 
27, 1864. 

Smith, F. A. — Meteors observed at Moriches, N. Y., November, 1866. 

Smith, Fli. — Meteors observed at Ennnittsburg, Md., November, 1866. 

Snotv, F. H. — Meteoric shower at Lawrence, Kans., November 14, 1867. 

Spaulding, A. — Meteors observed at Aurora, 111., November, 1866. 

Spencer, W. G. — ^leteors observed at Dubois, 111., November, 1866. 

Spera, W. II. — Meteors observed at K[)hrata, Pa., November, 1867, 

Steiihenson, Rev. James. — iMeteors observed at Saint Inigoes, Md., No- 
vember, 1876. 

Trembly, J. B. — I\Ieteors observed at Toledo, Ohio, November, 1866. 



MISCEIiLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 83 

True, E. A. — Meteors observed at Mariou, Ohio, November, 18GG. 

Turner, Ernest. — Accoimt of meteor observed at Point Pleasaut, La., 
June 29, 1872. 

Tutwller, H. — Account of meteoric shower observed at Green Springs, 
Ala., November 14, 1868. 

Washington, D. C. — Account of meteors observed at the United States 
Naval Observatory, 1868. 

West, Silas. — Meteors observed at Cornish, Me., November, 1866. 

Wheeler, John T. — Meteors observed at Concord, N. H., November, 
1866. 

Wilbur, B. jP.— Meteors observed at West Waterville, November, 1860. 

Williams, M. 0. — Meteors observed at Urbaua, Ohio, November, 
1866. 

Winfjer, Martin. — Meteors observed at Wooster, Ohio, November, 

1866. 

RAIN. 

Depth of rain collected in several rain-gauges during the storm of 
October, 1869. 

Extract from the meteorological registers of the Surgeon- General's 
OfQce from January, 1860, to January, 1867, giving summaries of 
amount of rain and melted snow at meteorological stations in the west- 
ern part of the United States. 

Influence of the weather in the production of rain. 

Adams, J. F. — Account of extraordinary rain-storm at Macon, Ga., 
October 2, 1868. 

Bache, D. — Account of hail-storm at San Antonio, Tex., May, 1868. 

Bartlett, Jefferson. — Snow-fall in West Lebanon, lud., winter of 1869. 

Berlandier, J. Louis. — Eain-fall at Matamoras, Mex., 1843-'ol. 

Bermuda. — Quantity of rain-fall at Ireland Island 1860-62. 

Blaclacell, Thos. — Return showing percentage of rain due to winds 
bearing rain from surrounding regions. Observations made at Mont- 
real 1859-'60. 

Branley, E. H. — Rain-fall at Amesville, Ohio, January, 1869. 

Camhridge, iliass.— Rain -tall 1855-67. 

Canton, Mo. — Rain-fall in 1870. 

Chase, Pliny E. — Cyclical rain-fall at San Francisco. Rain-curves. 
Recent monthly rain-fall in the United States. Remarks on the fall of 
rain as affected by the moon. 

Clarh, Br. Jas. F. — Effect of battles on rain, observed during the war. 

CocJcburn, S. — Rain-fall in Balize, Honduras, 1862-68. 

Coche, T. B. — Amount of rain-fall October, 1871, in Victoria County, 
Texas. 

Crosier, Adam. — Mean monthly rain-fall at Laconia, Ind., 1866-69. 

Cunningham, Geo. A. — Rain-table 1811-'68, at Luneuburgh, Mass. 

Curie, T. J. — Observations showing that anvil-shaped clouds indicate 
rain. 



84 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Davidson, ^.— liaiii-fall at Sitka, Alaska, May, 18GG, April, 18C7. 

Draper Jos. — Itaia-fall at Worcester, 18G0. 

Ewing, Chas. G.— Quantities of rain that fell in each mouth, 1855-'70. 

Foote, E. S. — Report of rainfall, January -June, 1869. 

6^/^^^, Geo. — Account of deluge in Patapsco aud Monocacy. 

Giltnanton, N'. H. — Kecord of snow, rain, &c., 1838-'G4. 

Grant, W. T. — Keport of rain-fall at Athens, Ga., September and Octo- 
ber, 1872. 

Gregory, J. M. — Heavy rain in Champaign, 111. 

Huntington, T. C. T. — Record of fall of rain in Phillipsburgh, Saint 
Martin's, July-December, 18G9. 

Hurlin, W. . — Rain-fall at Antrim, K H., November, 18GG. 

JacJcson, Geo. L. — Account of heavy fall of snow at Vaudalia, 111., 
February, 1872. 

Lalce ViUage, N. IT. — Depth of rain and melted snow collected in rain- 
gauges at Laconia and Lake Village, 18G5-'G9. 

Langgutli, J. G. — Account of hailstorm at Chicago, July, 1871. 

Lewisburgh, Ta. — Rain-fall in 1859. 

Logan, T. .1/.— Rain-table for Stockton, Cal., 1849-'70. 

Loomis, ^.— Fall of rain at Kew Haven, Conn., 1804-'29, '64-'68. 

Lupton, N'. T. — Rain-fall at Greensborough, 18ijj-'GS. 

McKinny, John C. — Account of snow-storm at Yiucennes, lud. 

21ilivai(kec. — Table showing amountof rain and melted snow 1811-59, 
measured by Dr. E. S. Marsh, I. A. Lapham, and Dr. Charles Winkler. 

I^eill, Thos. — Rain in Sandusky, Ohio, 1859-^G7. 

Neicarlc, N. J. — Great rains. 

Fcic York. — Rain-fall in North Hammond, Gouverneur, aud House- 
Yille, July, 18GG-June, 18G7. 

Pennsylvania. — Rain, 1839-'41. 

Fitman, Chas. H. — Amount of rainfall at West Barnstead, N. H., Au- 
gust and September, 18G9. 

Bogers, 0. P.— Rain-fall at Marengo, 111., 1850-71. 

Saint Louis. — Monthly amounts of rain at Saint Louis, 1853-'57, '60-'G7. 

Schotf, Chas. A. — Account of proposed rain-gauges. 

Seltz, Charles. — Account of heavy rain-storm at De Soto, August, 1871. 

^>,7A«.— Rain -fall, 1857-'G1. 

Smith, Edward A. — Account of rain and snow registered at the State 
lunatic hospital, Worcester, Mass., for fourteen years. 

Smith, Fatrick H. — Method of determiniug rain- fall by weight. 

Spera, N. 17.— Rain-fall at Ephrata, Pa. 

Steineman, 2L — Rain-gauge observations at Eckhart Mine, Md., 18G4 
-'G8. 

Talbot, E. E. — Account of snow-storm, February 3, 1868, at George- 
town, Texas. 

Tayloe, E. T.— Rain-fall observed at Powhatan Hill, 1850-'66. 

Tcnnent, Thomas. — Rain-fall in San Francisco, Cal., 1819-70. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 85 

Valentine, John. — Table showing depth of water which fell at Rich- 
mond in each month and year from 1852 to 1SG5. 

Washington, D. C. — Rain measured at the Smithsonian Institution, 18G2 
-'GG. Eaiu-fall at the United States Naval Observatory, 1852-18G7. 

Whitejield. — Curious snow-storm observed at Whitefield, March 19, 
18G9. 

Wilbur, Benjamin F. — Account of heavy rain at Waterville, Maine, 
August 18, 1871. 

WIND. 

Account of tornado from New York to Maine, October 8, 1797. Dia- 
gram of veering March and April, I8G3. 

Bahcocic, A. J. — Charts comprising direction of wind at Aurora, 111., 
with course of clouds September, 1857-January, 1858. 

Baddeley, P. F. H. — Dust Avhirlwiuds and cyclones. 

Barringer, W. — Account of tornado in Logan county, Ohio, June 7, 
1872. 

Bierce, R. C. — Account of tornado at Veroqnas, Wis., June 25, 1865. 

Boehmer, G. H. — Atmospheric currents and their effects upon jires- 
sure, temperature and moisture, from observations made in 1871-'72. 

Broolcs, Chas. — Tornado of 1851 in Middlesex county, Mass. 

Chappellsmith, John. — Account of tornado, April, 1852. 

Chase, Pliny ^,— Tidal wave curves. 

Connell, D. — Account of tornado at Buckingham, Iowa, September 
12, 1865. 

Hcnson, Stephen. — Account of tornado at Oxford, Minn., September 
12, 18G5. 

Hill, Thomas. — List of books on tornados in Harvard college library. 

Hudson, A. S. — Effects of tornado of 1860, at Sterling, 111. 

Kcenan, T. J. B. — Account of storm in Mississippi, with photograph 
of effect of same. 

McLeran, A. — Account of tornado in 111., June 3, 1860. 

Mulford, Anson M. — Account of tornado at New Providence, June 3, 
1860. 

Nicholson, W. i.— The great tornado of 18G0. 

Simmons, A. H. — Photograph of efiects of Chiuooh wind. 

Taylor, M. K. — Observations on the Camauche tornado. 

Wehh, John G. — Notes on two cyclones at Little Oarasta, Fla., August, 
1871. 

Young, Geo. D. — Account of tornado of June 3, 1860, at Camanche, 
Iowa. 

GEI^ERAL METEOROLOGY. 

Account of halo observed in 1630. 

Circulars relative to earthquakes by the earthquake committee, San 
Francisco, Cal. 



86 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Curves of equal annual change of magnetic declination, United States 
Coast Survey. 

Extracts from the regulations in regard to entries to be made and 
method of keeping the log-book. 

Invitation a I'assemblee des meteorologists a Leipzig pour le 14 
Aout 1872. 

Lists of elevations and distances in that portion of the United States 
west of the Mississippi Eiver. 

Maritime meteorology. 

Meteorological observations in balloon ascents, 1852. 

Open polar sea and glacial formations. 

Persine's system of meteorology. 

Speculations on cause of cold winters, A. H. Dunlevy. 

Statistical nomenclature of causes of death. 

Table of magnetic determinations observed in connection with survey 
of northwestern lakes. 

Telegraphic meteorology. 

Ames, Mrs. M. E. P. — Parhelia observed at Big Meadow, California, 
April 12, 1872. 

Astrop^R.F. — War comet observed atCrichtou's store, Virginia, July, 
1861. 

Bochmer, George H. — Distribution of heat over the United States, from 
official sources, 1823-1872. 

Camphell, John L. — xVccount of halo observed from Wabash College, 
Crawiordsville, Indiana, May 20, 18G5. 

Capen, F. L. — Circular of American Meteorological Society. 

Cohh, ^y. H. — Account of parhelia observed February 1, 18G7. 

Doran, G. C. — Profile of route of Yellowstone expedition. 

Dnnbunj, A. IL — Effect of the moon on the weather. 

Eann, T. — Storms and predictions, translated by Dr. Endlich. 

Hubana, J. — Map of Mexico and California. 

King, Thomas D. — Meteorology and its professors. 

Ze Verrier. — Memorandum in regard to general meteorological obser- 
vations. 

Lincoln, T. — Account of severe storm in Maine. 

Logan, Dr. Thomas M. — Circular relative to meteorological observa- 
tions. 

McAllister, n. Jr. — Sketch of parhelia observed at Colorado Springs, 
Colorado. 

Marcy, Capt. R. B. — Map of country upon Upper Eed River. 

Moss, G. B. — Parhelion observed February IG, 1872, at Belvidere, 111. 

rhillips, W. II. — Solar phenomena observed at Elmira, N. Y., Febru- 
ary 2, 18G7. 

l*ocy,A. — Law of the similar evolution of meteorological phenomena. 

/Smith, J. S. — Table of rise and lall of Lake Erie, 18o3-1810. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 87' 

Stearns, B. E. C. — Economic value of certain Australian forest-trees 
and their cultivation in California. 

Steele, Av(justus. — Eainbow observed at night at Cedar Ke^'S, Fla. 

Turner, Frof. J. B. — Education of American farmers. 

^Vhite, ^Y. F., Tampa, Fla. — Fogs in Florida. 

Whitney, II. M. — Eruption of the great summit volcano of Mauna 
Loa. 

Wilbur, B. F. — Lightning observed during snowstorm. 

Wing, 31. E. — Effect of lightning on telegraph wires. 

LOCAL METEOROLOGY. 
AFEICA. 

Meteorological notes of a journey to Musardu, B. Anderson. 

ASIA. 

CHINA. 

Memorandum explanatory of a plan for the eastern seas for recording 
meteorological observations aud transmitting weather news, Kobert 
Hart. 

INDIA. 

Madras. — Mean height of barometer and thermometer for each month 
of the years lS43-'44-'45. 

SIBERIA. 

Table of therraometric observations during the exploration of the 
country between Stikolajefsk and Okhotsk, 18G5. 

Olhofslc. — Report of thermometric observations in 18GG, Richard J. 
Bush. 

Yalcoutslc. — Temperature curves from fifteen years' observations, 1829 
-'-4L 

SINGAPORE. 

Annual abstract of meteorological observations for 1S70, n. L. Ran- 
dell. 

Meteorological observations, May-December, 18G9, H. L. Randell. 

Meteorological observations for April, 1872, (Straits Settlement Gov- 
ernment Gazette.) 

Meteorological observations, September, 1872. 

Temperature and rain-fall on Quop estate, 18GG-'70. 

TURKEY. 

Jerusalem. — Thermometric observations, 1851-1854. 
Mosul. — Temi)erature aud rain-fall, January, 1852- February, 185Cj 
Rev. W. F. Williams. 



88 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

AUSTEALIA. 

Ifeiv South Wales. — Summary of meteorological observations at Mor- 
peth, 1805, Dr. Tborntou. 

Queensland, Brisbane. — Summary of meteorological observations, April, 
1800, J. ]\IacDonnell. 

Meteorological observations and summaries of rain-fall, 1872. 

CENTRAL AMERICA. 

COSTA RICA. 

Hcredia. — Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en la ciudad de 
Heredia durante el auo 1805 j do. 1808. 

Limon. — llegister of meteorological observations, port of Limon, Octo- 
ber, 1805- August, 1800, Felipe Valentin. 

8an Jose. — 'Jbservaciones meteorologicas bechas en la ciudad de San 
Jose durante el primer semestre de 1808. 

Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en la ciudad de San Jose durante 
el alio de 1808 j do. 1809, 1870, 1871, 1872, 1873, 1874. 

GUATEMALA. 

Meteorological diary for the quarter ending June and December, 
1859. 

Observaciones meteorologicas, 1857. 

Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en el colegio seminario de 
Guatemala, 1859. 

Observaciones meteorologicas en la mina de las Cirueltas, 1750, de 
Paris sobre el mare, durante el primer semestre del aSo' 1808, H. Keck. 

Resumen de las observaciones hechas en el colegio seminario a cargo 
de los PP. de la Compania de Jesus de Guatemala el ano 1857 ; do. 
1858, 1859. 

HONDURAS. 

Meteorological notes taken on a flying visit to the norcueru district of 
Biitish llonduras, S. Cockburn. 
Meteorological phenomena in 1803, S. Cockburn. 
Meteorological scraps. Dr. Berendt. 
Report on the river Belize. 

PANAMA. 

Temperature observations, jMarch-May, 1849, 

Aspinwall. — Meteorological report for 1808-09, J. P. Kluge. 

SAN JUAN. 

Observaciones meteorologicas di Ottubre, 1871, M. M. Chazaro. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 89 

SAN SALVADOR. 

Observacioues raeteorologicas hechas en el laboratorio de la faculdad 
de medeciiui de San Salvador, 1871, 

EUKOPE. 

ENGLAND. 

Greenwich. — Rain-fall observations, 1849-1853. 

io/H/oH.— Anemograi)bic, barograpbic, and tbermograpbic curves, 
April 27, 1808. 

EaiD-fall observations, 1841-1853, J. Higgiubottom. 

Macclesfield. — Meteorological observations taken at tbe Useful Knowl- 
edge Society's rooms, 18G0-'G9. 

Newcastle. — Newcastle Cbronicle, September, 1863. 

Ticlcldll. — Meteorological observations in 18G3-'G4. 

FRANCE. 

Meteorologie, (Le Moniteur de la Flotte, Fevrier, 18G7.) 
Paris. — Carte representant la mortalite et I'etat meteorologiqne de 
Paris en 18G5. 

GERMANY. 

Franlcfort. — Account of earthquakes in the vicinity of Frankfort, 
W. Prentiss Webster. 

Meissen. — Zusammenstellung der Monats- und Jahresmittel aus den 
zu Meissen im Jahre 1871 angestellten dreimaligen meteorologischeu 
Beobachtuugeu. 

IRELAND. 

Comparative view of meteorological observations made in Ireland 
since 1788, with hints toward forming prognostics of the weather, 
llichard Kirwan, Dublin, 1794. 

ITALY. 

iV^«j,/e.5.— "II Salvatore," Anno 1, No. 3, 18G8. 

Palermo. — Meteorological bulletin of the Royal Observatory of Paler- 
mo, January, 18G5. 

NORWAY. 

"Bergen. — Meteorological Review for 18G4, O. J. Drentzer. 

PORTUGAL. 

Lisbon. — Diagrams of rain, 1855-1870. 

SPAIN. 

Cordoba. — Observacioues meteorologicas de Cordoba, aiio de 1859. 
Valencia. — Estacion meteorologica de la Universidad de Valencia. 
Resumen de las observacioues hechas en el mes de Abril de 1872. 



90 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

TURKEY. 

Constantinople. — Observations meteorologiques, A. Coumbary, 1808. 

Obsorvatious meteorologiques representees par des courbes, 18G7-'u8. 
A. Coumbary. 

Meteorological items, (Journal de Constantinople, L'fitoile d'Orient. 
Levant Uerald, 18G5-'0G-G7.) 

NORTH AMERICA. 

BRITISH AMERICA. 

Magnetical and meteorological observations at Lake Athabasca and 
Fort Simpson, by Capt. J. H. Lefroy, and at Fort Confidence, on Great 
Bear Lake, by Sir John Richardson, London, 1855. 

Fort Nascopee. — Meteorological observations, October, 1SG4- June, 
18G5, H. Connolly. 

Fort Simpson. — Meteorological Journal, October, 1849- January, 1850. 

Observations at Fort Simpson, Mackenzie River, is^ovember 1, 18o7- 
May 24, 1839 ; and April, 1848- August, 1859. 

Fort YouLon. — Meteorological observations January-Julj-, 18G1, R. 
Kennicott. 

Moose Factory. — Weather notes, September, 1858-September, 1859. 

Repulse Bay. — Meteorological observations by Dr. John Rae, from 
September, 1853, to July, 1854. 

Eiyolet. — Meteorological observations, 1857-59, H. Connolly. 

Vancouver's Island. — Meteorological observations, December, 18G3- 
June, 18G4. 

CANADA. 

Comparison of meteorological observations made at Cape Diamond, 
Montreal, and during an expedition for exploring Canada East, between 
rivers Saint Maurice and Ottawa : 

NEWPOUNDLAND. 

Harbor Grace. — Abstract of meteorological notes, February, 1863, H. 
A. Cliit. Anomalous gale and rain, H. A. Clift. Atmosphere and leaves, 
H. A. Clift. Diagram of the directions of the wind, H. A. Clift. Meteoro- 
logical notes, Harbor Grace Standard, December 4, 1872. 

Saint Jolui's. — General meteorological register for 1872, J. Delaney. 
General meteorological register, December, 1873, J. Delaney. Meteoro- 
logical observations, 1859-'G0, John Delaney. Meteorological register, 
January, February, 1857, E. M. Delaney. Meteorological registers, 1848- 
'50, Itoyal Artillery. Table showing mean temperature and height of 
barometer in each month from 1834 to 1838, Joseph Templeman. Ve- 
locity of the win?l by anemometer, J. Delaney. 

NOVA SCOTIA. 

Albion Mines. — Meteorological observations, 1844; meteorological ob- 
servations for 1850 and comparison with 1849. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 91 

Caledonia Mine. — Meteorological registers at the Caledouia Mine, 18G7- 
1871. Henry Poole. 

Halifax. — Account of storm, September 18-19, 1870, Frederick Al- 
lison. 

Horion. — Thermometric record, 185G, A. P. S. Stuart. 

Windmr. — Mean temperatures, 1794-1811. 

ONTARIO. 

AmJiersthurgli. — Meteorological observations from January, 1840, to 
Marcli, 1852, with coutiuuatiou by Peter Muuzies, from September, 
1853, to May, 1850. 

Bruce Mines. — Meteorological observations, September, 1850. 

Hamilton. — Mean results of meteorological observations for 1854 ; do. 
1855-'50, '59. Eesults of meteorological observations, 1846-1853, W. 
Craigie. 

Kingston. — Abstract of meteorological register kept at Queen's Col- 
ege University, 1858-00. 

Thousand Isles. — Barometrical readings, 1858, J. F. Mayer. 

Toronto. — Abstracts of meteorological observations at the magnetical 
observatory, 1854-'04. Daily curves of temperature at Toronto. General 
meteorological registers, 1850-'57, Professor Kingston. General meteoro- 
logical registers, 1804-09. Provincial Magnetical Observatory. Mean 
meteorological results, 1854, J. B. Cherriman. Mean meteorological re- 
sults, 1859-64, '70, Professor Kingston. Meteorological observations, 
October, 1847-Jauuary, 1848. Meteorological summary for November, 
1809, derived from the records of the Magnetical Observatory, Toronto. 
Monthly meteorological register at the Provincial Magnetical Observa- 
tory, 1859-1872. Eesults of meteorological observations made at the 
Magnetical Observatory, Toronto, during the years 1800-'61-'62 ; To- 
ronto, 1864. Summary of rain and melted snow for the winter quarter 
1870-71, from observations at forty-one stations j compiled at the Mag- 
netic Observ^atory, Toronto. 

QUEBEC. 

Daily means of observed temi)eratures at two adjacent stations, Vic- 
toria Bridge and Point Saint Charles, February, 1861. 

Montreal. — Meteorological observations at IMontreal, September-Ifo- 
vember, 1855, Dr. A. Hall. Observations relative to tables prepared 
and compiled by S. A. Huguet. Eegister of thermometer and barom- 
eter kept by T. D. King, February-July, 1872. 

Saint Martinis. — Charts of barometric j^ressure, humidity, temperature, 
and rain-fall, 1856, C. Smallwood. Contributions to meteorology, from 
observations at St. Martin's, 1857, C. Smallwood. Monthly meteorolog- 
ical register, October-November, 1858, C. Smallwood. 



92 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

MEXICO. 

Notes of a voyage to Vera Cruz, Miuititlan, &c., E. W. Foster. 

Observaciones ineteorologicas liechas en la eseuela iiacional prepara- 
toria (le Mexico eii el mes de Noviembre, 18G8, (Diario Oficial.) 

Observations at Santa Fe and Nueva Gerona, 1SG4. 

Observations meteorologiques, 1840-'42, T. Louis Berlandier. 

Limonar. — Quantity of rain-fall in 1842. 

Maiamoras. — Notices of rain, 1840-'47, Berlandier. 

Mazatlan. — Account of weather in 1SG8, Grayson. 

MinitUlan. — Meteorological observations, April, 1858, to January, 1859, 
Charles Laszlo. 

Mirador. — Meteorological observations, 1854-'57, January, 1858. Sur- 
vey of the meteorological materials made in 1858 and 18G8, by O. Sarto- 
rius. 

Trojes. — Meteorological observations, 1869-'70, T. Graef. 

Vera Cruz. — Barometrical observations, August, 1856, to September, 
1859, Dr. Berendt. 

UNITED STATES. 

Chart of comparative fluctuations of barometer, February and March, 
1843. 

Daily charts illustrating weather, 1843. 

Diagram showing extraordinary barometrical movements, January 
21-28, 1853. 

Espy's weather charts, 1843. 

Meteorological correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution, thirty- 
five bound volumes of letters from observers, &c. 

Meteorological notes during march of Colonel Morrison's command 
from Fort Gibson, Creek Nation, to Big Timber, Upper Arliansas, June 
22 to October 25, Capt. Henry Little. 

Meteorological observations, northwestern boundary survey. 

Meteorology on Central Pacific Railroad, 18G7, J. 11. Gilliss. 

Robertson's diaries, Mississippi, Virginia, &c. 

Scrap-books containing newspaper items on weather, &c., prepared at 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

Telegraphic reports of weather at various points in the United States, 
September and October, 1858. 

Weather bulletins and maps from the chief signal ofi&cer, 1871-'73. 

ALABAMA. 

;Erie. — Meteorological observations in 1824, Dr. S. K. Jennings. 
Greensboroiigh. — Abstract from meteorok)gical register for 18G8, N. T. 
Lupton. Account of hailstorm, May, 1857, Thomas M. Fitz. 
Grcoi Springs. — Meteorological tables, 18G7, J. W. A. Wright. 
Mobile. — Barometrical and thermometrical curves at Fort Morgan, 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 93 

Mobile Point, July-December, 1850. Meteorolo^cal curves, June, 1848. 
Meteorological observations at Fort Morgan, 1848-1850. 

Selma. — Account of rain, March 17, 1872, G. H. Lenoir. 

Vriion /Sprwf/s.— Eain-fall, 1868-'74, J. S. Moultrie. 

ALASKA. 

Observations at Fort Saint Michael, 1842 ; Ikogmint Depot, Nulato, 
and Fort Kolmakon, 1843, W. H. Dall. Fort Saint Michael meteor- 
ological observations, 18G5-'60, H. M. Bannister. 

NiiJato. — Meteorological observations, 1806-07, F. Westdahl. 

SWca. — Meteorological statement for 1808. Eecord of temperature 
observations, (Reaumur,) 1847-1804. Extracted from the Aunales de 
I'observatoire physique central de Russie. 

VnalaliJeet. — Meteorological observations, 1800-'07, F. Westdahl. 
TJnalaslca Island. — Mean monthly temperature observed at Hlolook, 
1807-'08. 

ARIZONA. 

Saint Thomas. — Thermometric record, 1805. 

ARKANSAS. 

Meteorological observations for February and March, 1801, and Feb- 
ruary, 1871, at Micco Creek Nation, H. F. Buckner. 

Little EocA-.— Meteorological observations, 1851-'5G, 1864-'70. 

Mount Ida. — Abstract of meteorelogical observations, May, Novem- 
ber, 1874, G. Whittington. 

Washington. — Meteorological observations, 1840-'59, N. D. Smith, 
Meteorological returns, January. February, 185P 

CALIFORNIA. 

Curves of horary variations of atmosi^heric pressure. 

Benicia Barracks. — Ozone observation^!, W. W. Hays. 

Ul Monte. — Rain-fall in December, 1873, George H. Peck. 

Fort Yuma. — Meteorological observTttions, 1800-'G7. 

Los Angeles. — Meteorological notes, April, 1851, and May, 1854, Sher- 
burne. 

Nevada (7if>/.— Thermometric observations, July, August, 1805, Charles 
F. Dunz. 

Sacramento. — Hourly observations, June 21, 1850, T. M. Logan. 
Monthly means barometer and thermometer, 1854, Doctor Hatch. 
Eain-fall, 1850-'73. Report of the curator of the Agassiz Institute ou 
Meteorology. 

San Diego. — Observations made on a trip to the mountains, G. W. 
Barnes. 

San Francisco. — Blank forms for meteorological observations. Colonel 
Williamson. Monthly meteorological observations, 1870-'73, C. G. 



94 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Ewing. Kuiii-fiill table, October, lS49-April, I80O, 18G1-'GS, Thomas 
Tenneut. The cbmate of San Francisco, R. M. Bache. 

San Joaquin Valley. — Eain-table and remarks on climate, J. W. A. 
Wright. 

Santa Barbara. — Range of the thermometer from July 1, 1872, to June 
30, 1873. Santa Barbara as a sanitarium, Santa Barbara Press. 

Santa Cms. — Meteorological observations for 1873, J. H. Hoadle}'. 

Santa Ynes VaJley. — IMeteorological observations, 1872. 

Yacaville. — Meteorological report, February-April, 1809, J. C. Sim- 
mons. Observations, January 22-February 1, 18G1), J. C. Simmons. 

COLORADO. 

A Year's Progress; Colorado in 1872, W. N. Byers. Climate of 
Colorado, (circular by W. N. Byers.) Colorado; published by the 
Denver Board of Trade, 1808. Geology, description, and resources of 
Central and Soutliern Colorado, Pueblo, 18G0. 

Fort Collins. — Meteorological reports, March-September, 1872, R. Q. 
Tenney. 

Fort Garland. — Temperature-table, 1855-'G9, C. Thomas. 

Golden City. — Registerof periodical phenomena, 1807, E. L. Berthoud. 

CONNECTICUT. 

Columbia. — Account of storm Jn\y, 1857, W. H. Yeomans. Weather 
reports January, December, 1857, June, 1859, W. H. Yeomans. 

Rariford. — Meteorological observations 1810-1852. 

Neio Haven. — Meteorological observations, E. Loom is. 

Iforicall: — Account of storm January, 1850, M. Scholfield. 

Pom/ret. — Account of storm October 24, 1853, D. Hunt. 

Salisbury. — Meteorological Journal, 184:4-'40, Dr. Ovid Plumb. 

Stamford. — Fall of water at the Stillwater Rolling-mill January 1, 
1809, to January 1, 1874, J. N. Ayers. 

DAKOTA. 

Meteorological table 1809-'7(), A. Barnaud. 
Fonka Agency. — Atmospherical phenomena November 22, 1871. 
Yankton. — Meteorological record for the summer quarter of 1805, M. 
K. Armstrong. 

DELAWARE. 

Georgetown. — IMeteorological observations during part of 1852. Rain- 
fiill, July, 1857-Deceniber, 1859. D. W. Maull. 

Milford. — Sums and means for 1873 ; R. 11. Oilman. 

DISTRICT OF C0LU:MBIA. 

Washington. — Account of thunder-storm June 27, 1809, W. Q. Force. 
Memorandum of storm of November 4, 1850. Meteorological observa- 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 95' 

tions 1828-'29, Jonathan Elliott. Meteorological observations at the 
observatory, Capitol Hill, April-June, 1872. Meteorological observa; 
tions at the Patent-Office 184{J-'57. Meteorological observations April- 
June, 1855, W. J. Ehees. Meteorological observations September- 
December, 1854. Meteorological register, 1821, Jonathan Meigs. 
Monthly means of dry thermometer; monthly mean of maximum and 
minimum thermometer; maximum and minimum temperature for 1870, 
at the Kaval Observatory. Monthly means of the bi-hourly observations 
of the barometer and thermometer made at the Naval Observatory dur- 
ing 1841. Notes on vegetation, l862-'64, James Watts. Observations 
in the observatory of the Smithsonian Institution, April 18, 1860-No- 
vember 29, 1803. Projection showing the regular increase and decrease 
of atmospheric heat in the city of Washington for the year 1820, Eob- 
ert Little. Psychrometric observations, July, 1854, Ecgisters from Re- 
cording Barograph. Snowfall observed at the Smithsonian Institutioa 
April 1858-1874. 

PLORIDA. 

Comparison of the winds on the coast of Florida. Minutes of gale 
September 8, 1854, A. S. Baldwin. 

Jaclcsoin-iUc. — Kange of the thermometer at Jacksonville, 1845-40, A. 
S. Baldwin. Table showing the temperature of February for sixteen 
years, A. S. Baldwin. 

Key West. — Barometrical and thermometrical curves June, August, 
and October, 1851. Details of storm August 27, 28, 1850, W. C. Dennis. 
Meteorological observations for 1844-'45, Adam Gordon. Meteorologi- 
cal observations at the garrison, 1843. Meteorological register kept at 
Key West barracks, March-Ai)ril, 1845. Barometrical variations, 1853. 

Ken-port. — Account of storm, Charles Beecher. 

New ISmyrna. — Eeport of rain -fall, 1873, George J. Alden. 

Saint Augustine. — Weather record, 1809-70. 

Saint John River. — Temperature observations, January-April, 1809, 
G. A. Boardman. 

Tallahassee. — Observations with rain-gauge, Truman S. Betts. 

GEORaiA. 

Berne. — Weather report, April, 1800, H. L. Uillyer. 

Cabaniss. — Estimate of rain. May, 1872, A. Colvard. 

Gainesville. — Diagram of thermometric observations, February and 
March, 1872, Dr. W. T. Grant. Eain-fall for August, 1872. Meteoro- 
logical report, October, 1872, M. F. Stephenson. Weather notes, No- 
vember, 1872, M. F. Stephenson. 

MiUethjevillc. — Li.-.t of plants observed in the vicinity, N. G. McAdoo. 

Savannah. — Meteorological observations. May, 1858, September, 1859, 
John F. Posey. 

Traderh /Z (7/.— Meteorological report, September, 1871, F. M. Smith. 

Waldo. — Meteorological record, March, 1800, Dr. E. C. Garvin. 



96 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Warrinrjton. — Meteorological register at Uuited States naval hospi- 
tal, JaiHicry, 1859. 

^Yilsonville.—^l(iteoro\ogica[ observations, October, 1873, W. B. 
Somerville. 

ILLINOIS. 

Account of tornado in Northern Illinois, 1855, John Wentwortli. 

Meteorology of Illinois, B. Wbitaker. 

Athens. — Meteorological record, 1851, and errata, J. Hall. 

Augusta. — Mean temperature, 1833-1852. 

Aurora. — Meteorological observations for 1859, George Sutton. 
Tbermometric record, 1859, A. J. Babcock. Chart of temperature, 
1859, A. J. Babcock. 

Batavia. — Meteorological report. March and April, 1857, Thompson 
Mead. 

Belvidere. — Abstract of registers, 1868-71, G. B. Moss. Comparison 
of montbly temi^eratures, 1867-1870, G. B. Moss. Eecord of thermome- 
ter, March-October, 1867. Summaries of meteorological records, 1868- 
'72. 

Brighton. — Meteorological abstracts, 1869, W. V. Eldredge. IMeteor- 
ological table, April, 1855-April, 1856, W. V. Eldredge. 

Carthage. — Kegister of meteorological observations, August, 1858- 
September, 1859, Mrs. E. M. A. Bell. 

CharJcHton. — Temperature report, March, 1870, Charles Gramesly. 

Chicago. — Diagrams showing effect of meteorological influences on 
mortality, 1867-'G9. Meteorological record, January-Septqmber, 1841, 
Silas ^leacham. 

Coopersvillc. — Temperature notes, January, 1869, S. Hazleton. 

Banvers. — Meteorological report. May to December, 1872, Ira Eowell. 

Bccatur. — Double parhelia, February, 1870, Timothy Dudley. 

Effingham. — Weather notes, March, 1869, H. Gruenewald. 

Elgin. — Results of meteorological observ^atious, 18o8-'59, J. B. Jfew- 
comb. 

Galesburg. — Maximum and- minimum temperature, February-Decem- 
ber, 1873, B. F. Kemp. 

Hennepin. — Abstracts of tbermometric record, 1865-'72, Smiley Shep- 
herd. 

Weather notes, 1870, Smiley Shepherd. 

Highland. — Kecord of temperature, 1841-'52, Ryhiner. 

Hopedale. — Meteorological items for 1871, A. G. Crisp6. 

Marengo. — Weather notes, July, 1854-May, 1855, Jaiuiary, 1856, O. P. 
Rogers. 

Korthfield. — Account of tornado, 1855, John A. Kennicott. Account 
of tornado, 1855, Allen W. Phillips. 

Pclcin. — Summary of meteorological observations, 1855-'56, 1859, J. IT. 
Riblet. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 97 

Peoria. — Meteorological observations, December, 1855-February, 1SG5, 
Fred. Brendel. 

Phcenixville. — Meteorological report, May, 1869, Isaac Coffman. 

Ridge Farm. — Reports of the weather, December, 1807, January-April, 
1808, B. G. Williams. 

Eiley. — Summary of meteorological observations, 1872. Summaries 
of meteorological observations, 1801-73, J. W. James. 

Sadonis. — Weather notes, June, 1806, A. Catron. 

iSandicich. — Annual abstract for 1871, and conditions for July, 1871, 
N. E. Ballou. 

South Fass. — Meteorological reports, December, 1802-October, 1805, 
S. C. Spaulding. 

YandaUa. — Weather notes, February, 1872, Geo. L. Jackson. 

Tvarsaic. — Account of tornado, June, 1858, B. Whitaker. Account 
of storms of August 18,28,20; B. Whitaker. Mean temperature and 
rainfall. May, 1872, B. Whitaker. Meteorological observations, 1840- 
5iS, B. Whitaker. Weather reports, September-December, 1850, B. Whi- 
taker. York ^eck meteorological record, 1801-'G5, V. P. Gray. 

INDIANA. 

Bloomington.—V\,Q.\\ovt of Robinson's anemometer, November, 1809, 
C. M. Dodd. 

Cannelton. — Abstract of meteorological journal, November 20-Decem- 
ber 3, 1850, Hamilton Smith. 

Fort Gihso7i. — Report of temperature October, 1854-April, 1857, Hen-, 
ry Little. 

Indianapolis. — Meteorological report of Indianapolis Academy of IVIedi- 
cine. Summary of observations for the quarter ending November 30, 
1870, Dr. E. Hadley. Monthly mean raiige of thermometer, 1801-Go, 
Royal Mayhew. Temperature report and account of hail-storm, W. J. 
Elstun. 

Kniglitstown. — Condensed maps of atmosphere, 1869-70,0. Deems, 

Logansport. — Abstract of meteorological tables, 1856-07, January and 
February, 1808, Chas. B. Lasselle. 

21anchester. — November, 1871 compared with November, 1872, Peter 
Murray. 

Mount Hope. — Diagram of rain-fall, November, 1809, D. Deem. 

Riclimond. — Meteorological observations, March. 1850, Joseph Moore. 

EockviUe. — Mean temperature, 1802-'00, W. H. Anderson. 

Peru. — Weather report, September, 1809, W. W. Austin. Weather 
report, June, 1870, William Dauiells. 

Saint Pcter^s. — Weather notes, January, 1869, Francis A. Bauer. 

Vevay. — Weather notes, November, 1868-Novemberl873, C. G.Boerner. 

INDIAN TEERITORY. 

Meteorological notes obtained from conversations with Creek chiefs. 
Fort Washita. — Comparison of Julys, 1811-'19. 

7 s 



98 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL/ 

IOWA. 

"Jellevue. — Synopsis of meteorological register, November, 18o5-No- 
vember, 1856, John C. Forg. 

Bloomington. — Meteorological table, 1848, T. S. Parvia. 

Boonsboroitgh. — Account of storm, April 25, 1872, E. Babcock. 

Border Plains. — Meteorological observations, March, 1855-Mareli, 
1806, George C. Goss. 

Cannelton. — Rainfall, May 1-November 8, 1857, H. Smith. 

Cresco. — Meteorological notes, December, 1871, H. D. Noble. 

Dubuque. — Humidity, June, 1853, Asa Horr. 

Fairfield. — Meteorological notes, June-November, 1856, J. M. Shaffer. 
Meteorological notes, 1857-'58. 

Fontanelle. — Weather report, December, 1868. 

Fort Madison. — Temperature aud precipitation, 1848-'52, Daniel Mc- 
Cready. Weather notes, June-December, 1873, Miss L. A. McCready. 

Outtenberg. — Meteorological report, March, 1865, Philip Dorweiler. 

Iowa City. — Meteorological observations, 1866, Theo. S. Parvin. 

Maqueta. — Meteorological observations, February, 1857, E. F. Hobart. 

Marble Rode. — Weather report, March, 1867. 

Mount Vernon. — Thermometrical observations, September, 1858- 
March, 1857, B. W. Smith. 

Mtiscatine. — Condensed report for 1871, J. P. Walton. Range of ther- 
mometer, 1871, J. P. Walton. Meteorological journal, 1853, '55, '56. 

Pacquette's Ferry. — Table of meteorological observations, by A. L. 
Barraud, March, April, 1871. 

Pella. — Abstract of meteorological observations, 1855, E. H. A. 
Scheerer. 

Poulteney. — Meteorological journal, 1853, Benjamin F. O'Neill. 

Red Oak. — Report lor August, 1872, E. A. Harris. 

West Union. — List of corrections in meteorological record, F. Mc- 
Clintock. 

Woodbine.— Weather notes, July, 1868, March, 1869, August, 1870, 
D. K. Witter. 

KANSAS. 

Abstracts of the meteorology of 1874, condensed from the records of 
the Kansas State Agricultural College by William K. Kedzil. 

Highest and lowest temperatures observed in Kansas, George H. 
Boehmer. Weather notes, April, 1873, George Wigg. 

Baxter Springs. — Report for April, 1871, W. Hyland. 

Belleville. — Meteorological report, August, 1872, J. W. Raynolds. 

Weather notes, 1873, J. W. Raynolds. 

JBe/oif.— Rain-fall in February, 1872, T. McGrath. 

Burlington. — Chart of appearance of sky, February 5, 1870, Allen 
Crocker. 

CrawfordsviUe. — Meteorological observations. May, 1867. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 99 

Emporia. — Eain-fall in October, 1872, G. W. Cass. 

Bolton. — Account of earthquake, April 24, 1867, Dr. James Watters. 

Lawrence.— Account of earthquake, April 24, 1867, E. J. Eice. Amount 
of rain and melted snow, January, 1801-December, 1867, A. N. Fuller. 
Meteorological notes, February, 1867, George W. Hollingworth. Mete- 
orological summary for 1873, F. H. Snow. Temperature observations, 
18Cl-'67, Arthur K Fuller. 

Leavenworth. — Account of earthquake, April 24, 1867, H. D. Mc- 
Carty. 

Neosho Falls. — ^Meteorological observations, March, 1859, B. F. Goss. 

Olatha. — Account of weather, 1868, W. Beckwith. 

Osaicatomie. — Meteorological report, March, 1868, W. H. Berkey. 

Sycamore Springs. — Rain-fall, May-December, 1873. 

Topelia. — Account of earthquake, April 24, 1867, J. D. Parker. 

Washington County. — Temperature report, April, 1873, George Wigg. 

WilUamsburgh. — Meteorological report, April, 1871, D. Fogle. 

KENTUCKY. 

J.rm^ia.— Meteorological observations, July, 1840-February, 1841. 

Ashland. — Meteorological observations, November, 1872, J. B. Bow- 
man. 

Clinton. — Report of rain- fall for April, 1868, Rev. T. H. Cleland. 

Danville. — Meteorological register, July, 1843. 

Temperature and rain observations, 1860, O. Beatty. 

Harodshurgh. — Meteorological register, March, 1871-January, 1872, 
J. E. Letton. 

Lebanon. — Meteorological observations at Saint Mary's College, April- 
November, 1843. 

Lexington. — Range of temperature, January, 1868-March, 1869, at the 
Sayre Institute, S. K. Williams. Register of thermometer and barome- 
ter at Sayre Institute, 1867, S. K. Williams. 

Moscow. — Weather report, September-October, 1872; J. B. Morris. 

Pine Grove. — Meteorological notes, May, 1874, Samuel D. Martin. 

Salem. — Memorandum of the weather, May, 1868, Randolph Noe. 

Springdale. — Meteorological reports, April-December, 1843. Means 
for 1860, Mrs. Lawrence Young. 

Winchester. — Hourly observations of 1»hermometer, June-September, 

1872, James M. Ogden. 

LOUISIANA. 

Alexandria. — Thermometric record, October, 1808-March, 1869, John 
P. McAuley. 

Baton Rouge. — Meteorological reports, July-September, 1872, IMay, 

1873, R. H. Day. Rain-fall notes, November-December, 1872, Richard 
H. Day. 

DeWii—Rain-fall table, 18G7-'72, Lewis Campbell. 



100 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Fort Jesiip. — Thermometric register, 1823-'45. 

Franldin. — Meteorological observatious, Juue, 1843. 

Greenville. — Meteorological notes, Xoveuiber, 18G0, R. W. Foster. 
Meteorological reports, 18G9, E. W. Foster. 

New Orleans. — Hourly meteorological observations, 181)9-10, Lafour. 
Meteorological and mortuary chart, 1849, Dr. E. H. Barton. Meteorologi- 
cal ,>T)urnal, 1841-''44, D. T. Lillie. Meteorological notes in annual report 
of board of health, 1849. Meteorological register, July, 1853, N. B. 
Benedict. Eeport uf self-registering thermometer at the office of the 
board of health, September, 1872, March-December, 1873. I. Stathem. 
Thermometric observations, 1820-1848, E. H. Barton. 

Petite Coquille. — Topographical, geological, and medical report, June, 
1820, with chart. Dr. E. H. Bell. 

Point Pleasant. — Meteorological report February, 1869, March, April, 
1872, Ernest Turner. 

MAINE. 

Ice in Kennebec Eiver, Rev. Francis Gardiner. 

Belfast. — Summary of meteorological observations made at Belfast, 
July-September, 1872, January, 1873, Geo. E. Brackett. 

BrunsicicJc. — Meteorological observations, 1807-1852, Parker Cleve- 
land. 

Castine. — Abstract of meteorological register, showing maximum and 
minimum temperature of every month, 1810-1850, Judge Nelson. 

Cornish. — Effects of lightning in storm of July, 18G7, Silas West. 

Gardiner. — Amount of rain and melted snow, 1837-1852. Meteorologi- 
cal notes, 1837-1852, R. H. Gardiner. Weather notes, April, May, 180G, 
R. H. Gardiner. Weather report, November, 1873, R. H. Gardiner. 
Weather report, winter, 1853-'54, R. H. Gardiner. 

Hiram. — Table and diagram of mean temperature for 35 years, 1831- 
18G4, Geo. Wads worth. 

Lisbon Factory. — Meteorological observations, August, September, 
18G7. 

Milltoicn. — Notes on the great storm of October 4, Geo. A. Boardman. 

Portland. — Hourly meteorological report, August 2, 1872, W. H. 
Ohler. Maximum temperature, 181G-1852. Meteorological register, 
February, 1851, and Juue, 1852, Chas. B. Merrill. Meteorological sum- 
maries for May, October, December, 1860, January, 18G1. Meteorologi- 
cal tables for the year ending Dece^iiber 31, ISGO, Henry Willis. 

Prospect. — Periodical i)henomeua, 18G4- G5, Y. G. Eaton. 

^V,co.— Rain-fall, 1844-'46. 

Standish. — Periodical phenomena, May, June, 18G7, J. P. Moulton. 

Union. — Weather notes, July, 1871, Wm. Gleason. 

Vinal Haven. — Weather record, October, 1869 : W. Irving Vinal. 

West Watcrville. — Weather report, June, 1871. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL 101 

MARYLAND. 

Annapolis. — Maximum and minimum temperature, 1850, W. R. Good- 
man. Eecord of maximum and minimum thermometer, December, 
1858, Wm. E. Goodman. 

Baltiniore. — Meteorological observations, 1829, '30, '37. Meteorological 
observations made in. the vicinity of Baltimore, 1818-'19, '22-'23, Lewis 
Brautz. 

ChantiUy. — Account of storm, June 21, 1857, S. T. Stuart. 

Cumberland. — Temperature observations, January, 1859-May, 1871. 
IMeteorological observations for December, 1873, (Cumberland Daily 
News, January 5, 1874.) 

Emmittshurgh. — Motion of clouds and force of wind, 1808, 1872, C. H. 
Jourdau. 

Neiccasile. — Weather notes, August, 1871, Lewis H. Smith. 

PUcescille. — Temperature andrain-fall observations, 1871. 

Saint Inifjoes. — Notes for June, 1800, James Stephenson. 

Sani'S Crce^-.— Account of snow-storm, January 11, 1857. Weather 
notes, Februarv, 1855, D. W. Naill. 

Schcllman Hall. — Meteorological tables, 1840-49. 

MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst College. — Mean temperature observations, 1839, Professor 
Siiell. 

BircVs Island Lighthouse, — Meteorological observations, August, 1843- 
November, 1844, John Clark. 

Lawrence. — Summary of meteorological report, 1850, Jobn Fallon. 

Lunenburgh. — Means of the thermometer, 1858-1808, George A. Cun- 
ningham. 

N'ew Bedford. — Barometrical means and extremes, 1812-1848, Samuel 
liodmau. Meteorological summaries, 1818-1833, Samuel Eodman. 
Eain-fall observations, August, 1871, Samuel Eodman. 

North Billerica. — Weather notes, Elias Nason. 

Plainjield. — Thermometric observations, January-March, 1857, S. F. 
Shaw. 

Salem. — Temperature observations, 1814-1810, Dr. W. Bentley. 

Somerset. — IMeteorological observations and quarterly summaries, 
1871-72, Elisha Slade. Meteorological report, JMarch, April, 1872, 
Elisha Slade. Mean temperature, 1871-72, Elisha Slade. Weather 
notes, February, 1871, Elisha Slade. 

Springfield. — Meteorological observations, 1805-00, J. Weatherhead. 
Meteorological tables, 1848-53, Lucius C. Allen. Amount of rain, and 
maximum and minumum temperatures, for summers of 1857-'58-'59, F. 
A. Brewer. 

Williamstoicn. — Plants found in the vicinity of Williams College, P. 
O. Chadbourne. Eesults of meteorological observations for the year 



102 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

endiug July, 1856, L. Wilson. Thermometric tables deduced from 
observations from 1816-1838, reduced and arranged by E. W. Morley. 

Wood's Hole. — Observed temperature of the water in June, 1873^ J. 
Edwards. Kaiu-fall during summer 1855; B. R. Gilford. 

Worcester. — Flowering seasons on Hospital Hill, 1839-1855. Meteor- 
ological observations at the State Lunatic Asylum, 1855, 1859-'61. 

MICHIGAN. 

Plants of Michigan, Dr. Dennis Cooley. 

Adrian. — Maximum and minimum temperature and rain, February, 
1869, Lemay Heline. 

Alpena. — Mean temperature in 1872, J. W. Paxton. 

Ann Arbor. — Abstract of meteorological observations, January-March , 
1855, A. Winchell. Abstract of meteorological observarions, 18^9- 
'52, L. Woodruff. Meteorological table for 1849, L. Woodruff. 

Cold Water. — Rain-fall in April and May, 1872, Harvey Haynes. 

Copper Falls. — Abstract of meteorological observations, December, 
1855-October, 1856, Charles S. Whittlesey. Meteorological register, 
winter 1855-'56, Charles S. Whittlesey. 

Detroit. — Meteorological observations December, 1848, W. A. Ray- 
mond. Climate of Detroit, Bela Hubbard. 

Ea{}le River. — Transcript of meteorological register, November, 1855- 
April, 1856, James S. Morgan. Transcript of meteorological register, 
December, 1854-October, 1855, Charles Whittlese3^ 

Flint. — Abstract of meteorological record Flint Scientific Institute, 
1855, Dr. D. Clark. 

Fort mZ/cws— Monthly means, 1844-'46. 

Kalamazoo. — Weather notes, January-April, 1873, Henry H. Mapes. 
Weather report, May-June, 1868, Frank Little. 

Lahe Superior. — Transcript of readings of detached thermometer, sum- 
mer of 1849, C. Whittlesey. 

. Muslcegon. — Meteorological observations, August 7-13, H. A. Pat- 
tison. 

Ontonagon. — Transcript of meteorological register, Ifovember, De- 
cember, 1854, Dr. H. S. Taft. Transcript of meteorological register, 
December, 1853-January, 1854, A. Stockley. 

Oshtemo. — Weather notes, 1866-'71, Henry H. Mapes. 

Fort Huron. — Weather report, February, 1868. 

Fortage Lake. — Transcript of meteorological reports, December, 1853 
-June, 1854, C. H. Palmer. 

Saint James. — Beaver Island meteorological observations, September, 
1852-Augu8t, 1853, James J. Strong. 

Saugatuck. — Meteorological observations, February, 1855, L. H. 
Streug. 

Sault Ste. Marie. — Diary of the weather, September, 1823- June 1825, 
Colonel Cutter. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 103 

Sugar Isle. — Weather notes, August, 1865, J. W. Paxton. 

Thunder Bay Island. — Weather report, March-May, 186C, J. W. 
Paxton. 

Traverse City. — Quarterly meteorological register for 1873, S. E. Wait. 

Upper Peninsula. — Transcript of meteorological register, July-Sep- 
tember, 1850, A. Merry weather. 

MTKNESOTA. 

Afton. — Meteorological report, January, 1865, B. F. Babcock. 

Bea.ver Bay. — Description of instruments, method of observing, &c., 
Thomas Clark. 

Burlington. — Meteorological observations, 1857, '58, A. A. Hibbard. 

Chippcica Agency. — Thermometric record, January, 1871, Dr. H. Mc- 
Mahon. 

Enterprise. — Weather report, March, 1871, John Greethurst. 

Hennepin. — Profile of barometric curves, December, 1874-January, 
1856, J. B. Clough. 

Itasca. — Weather record, March, 1865. 

Litchfield. — Diagram of halo around moon, H. L. Wadsworth. 

New Ulni. — Eeport for October, 1867, John Kauba. 

Waterville. — Meteorological reports, April-August, 1866, Lewis Stone. 

/ MISSISSIPPI. 

BrooJchaven. — Weather notes, 1867, T. J. R. Keenan. 

Columhus. — Meteorological observations, 1855, '58-'59, James S. Lull. 

Fayette. — List of early and late frosts, 1834-1863, G. C Armstrong. 
Appearance of birds, 1873. 

Mount Carmel. — Range of thermometer, January, February, 1870, E. 
H. Newton. 

Natchez. — Meteorological notes, 1871, Tliomas J. Cockrell. Remarks 
on the weather, March, 1858, Robert McCary, 

Pass Christian. — Meteorological observations, May-July, 1860, S. Shep- 
herd. 

MISSOURI. 

Charleston. — Meteorological observations, 1868. 
Corning. — Weather notes, November, 1872, Horace Martin. 
East Prairie. — Meteorological report for 1869, A. Miller. 
Edina. — Tabular statement of fall of rain, May, 1859-January, 1867, 
J. 0. Aguew. 
Enterprise. — Weather notes, June, 1871, J. Greethurst. 
Hannibal. — Meteorological report, April. 

High Hill. — Thermometric record, December, 1872, W. S. Chapin. 
Lexington. — Memorandum of weather, 1855, W. T. Davis. 
Richland. — Records of thermometer, 1869-72, Spencer S.Goodwin. 
Bella. — Registry of periodical phenomena, 1868, Homer Ruggles. 



104 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Table showing range of thermometer, April, 18G6-March, 1867, H. Riig- 
gles. 

Saint Louis. — Maximum, minimum, and mean temperatures, 1849-1 852, 
Dr. Engelmann. Mean temperature of every month 1836-1853, G. 
Eugelmaun. Meteorological condition and mortality of Saint Louis, 
1855, Dr. Geo. Engelman, Meteorological observations, ISll-'ll, Dr. 
B. B. Brown. Meteorological observations, 1856, '70. Meteorological 
observations, 1861, '69, Dr. A. Wislizenus. Meteorology for 1867, Dr. 
Geo. Engelmann. Weekly meteorological records, 1872-'73, B. D. Krib- 
ben. Chart, November, December, 1872; daily means, October, 1872. 

Stoiitville. — Weather report, December, 1871, A. Y. Carlton. 

Washburn. — Weather record, spring season of 1871, J. W. Hannah. 

MONTANA. 

Meteorology for 1859, W. W. Johnson. 

NEBRASKA. 

Barometrical observations at Fort Kearney, South Pass, and Honey 
Lake Wagon-Road, 1857-58 , W. H. Wagner. Meteorological observa- 
tions at Fort Kearney, Laramie, &c., 186()-'64. 

De Soto. — Temi)erature observations, January-March, 1867, Charles 
Seltz. 

Fontanelle. — Eauge of thermometer, July, 1868, H. Gibson. 

Peru. — Account of earthquake April 24, 1867 ; J. W. McKenzie. 

Plattsmouth. — Meteorological observations, January, 1872- January, 
1873, A. L. Child. 

Santee-Sioux Agency. — Statement of weather, December, 1870-April, 
1871, Geo. S. Truman. View of parhelia, November 22, 1871. Account 
of dust-storm. 

NEVADA. 

Aurora. — Weather report for September, 1868, Samuel Young. 

NEW HAMPSniRE. 

Depth of rain and melted snow collected in rain-gauges kept by the 
W. L. C. and W. M. Company, in 1870. 

(7/rtrewoni.— Report of rain-fall November, 1867, and April, 1868, 
Lewis Stevens. 

Concord. — Weather notes, January-March, 18.36, W. Prescott. 

Hanover. — Barometric and thermometric monthly curves, Dartmouth 
Coilege. List of plants growing in vicinity. 

Manchester. — Meteorological observations, 1845-51, S. N. Bell. 

Neiv Ipswich. — Weather notes for August, 1865, W. D. Locke. 

Xorth Barnstead. — Meteorological abstract, September, 1866, C. H. 
Pitman. 

Pi«s/{cW.— Meteorology of 1872, Geo. R. Drake. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 105 

Portsmouth. — Meteorological observations made at the navy-yard, 
1839-'42. 

Shelhunie. — Selected memorandums, relative to the \yeatlier, from 
1868-'72, John Collin. 

Whitefield. — Meteorological observations for the last twenty-two days 
of May, 18G9, L. D. Kidder. 

NEW JERSEY. 

Atco. — Eegister of temperature, 1869-'71, H. A. Green. "Weather 
record, 1870, H. A. Green. 

Bloomjielcl. — Diagram of wind's variation, January-June, 1855, E. L. 
Cooke. 

Burlington. — Meteorological register, 1819-'58. 

Freehold. — Register of thermometer in the open air for the year 1800. 

Jersey City. — Monthly means of temperature observations, 1871- 
'73, Thomas T. Howard, jr. Quarterlj' reports, 1871, Thomas T. How- 
ard, jr. Record of observations with maximum thermometers, the bulb 
of one touching painted tin and the other bright tin, simultaneously ex- 
posed to the direct rays of the sun, Thomas T. Howard, jr. Thermo- 
metric record, December, 1870; Thomas T. Howard, jr. 

Lamhertville. — Monthly mean temperatures, 1837-59. 

Moorestoicn. — Summary for August 1868, T. J. ttans. 

Neicarl'. — Maximum, minimum, and mean temperatures, 1854, 'G0-'62, 
W. A. \Ybitehead. 

New Germantou-n. — Monthly reports of range of barometer, 1871-72, 
A. B. Xoll. Height of barometer, July, August, 1809-October 1870, 
A. B. Noll. Temperature curves. May, July, 18G0. 

NEW MEXICO. 

History, Wealth, and Resources of IsTew Mexico, Hon. S. B. Elkins. 
Observations made by James M. Reade, during Pope's expedition. 
Bosque Redondo Beservation. — Climate at Indian farm in 1807. 
El Paso. — Curve of daily temperature. 
Fort Union. — Thermometric record, 1853-54. 

NEW YORK. 

Account of weather at New York Fort, winter of 174G-'17. Flow of 
the west branch of the Crotou River, J. J. R. Croes. 

Babylo7i. — Thermometer observations. May, June, 1872, F. Miller. 

Brooklyn. — Diagrams of cycles of cold during winter 1848-*19, E. Mer- 
riara. 

Buffalo. — Climatology of Buffalo, 18G7, W. Ives. Meteorological 
memoranda for March, 18G5, W. Ives. 

Canandaigua. — Taylor's weather table, 1SG9. 

Chatham. — Meteorological observations, November, 1839-November, 
1845, William E. Oliver. 



106 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Deimuville. — Register of thermometer for January, 1SG5, Henrj' Haas. 

East Henrietta. — Diagram of meteorological monthly means, 1859, 
A. S. Wadsworth. Meteorological tables, 1859, A. S. Wadsworth. 

Farmingdale. — Wind record January-July, 18G6, 1867, January-Feb- 
ruary, 18G8, John C. Merritt, jr. 

Fishkill Landing. — Abstract of meteorological register, 1854, W. Hiarli- 
ness. 

Flatbush. — Book of meteorological remarks, 1850, Erasmus Hall. 

Geneva. — Meteorological observations, 1850-'05, Prof. W. D. Wilson. 

Glasco. — Weather notes, April, 1873, D. B. Hiudricks. 

Oouverneur. — Meteorological observations at high-school, 1837-49, 
Stephen Allen. 

Lake. — Extremes of temperature observed December, 1850, January, 
1857, Peter Reid. 

Lansingburgli. — Rain fall. May, 1827-'G7, J. W. Heimstreet. 

Leyden. — Meteorological report, January and February, 18G9, C. C. 
Merriam. 

Little Genessee. — Weather notes, February. 

Lockport. — Meteorological observations, 1849-'50, J. G. Trevor. 

Locust Grove. — Meteorological report, 1868, C. C. Merriam. 

Tjowville. — Direction of the wind for each hour, day and night, from 
October, 1850-June, 1851, David P. Mayhew. Synopsis of meteorolog- 
iciU register, 1857, J. Carroll House. 

Madrid. — Meteorological observations, 1852-'53. 

Mohawk — Diagram of relative temperature for each month of 1867, 
Dr. James Lewis. Diagram hourly mean temperature, 1867, Dr. James 
Lewis. Meteorological record. Dr. James Lewis. Register of self re- 
cording instruments, Dr. James Lewis. Temperature observations, 
1867, Dr. James Lewis. 

Neicburgh. — Thunder-showers, periodical phenomena, &c., in 180G, 
George Kimball. 

N'ew York. — Abstracts of New York Academy Register, 1852. Account 
of solar phenomena and sketch of same, H. P. Smith. Chart showing 
influence of impure air and overcrowding, on health of New York, Dr. 
W. F, Thoms. Comparative view of temperature of July, 1854-'65, and 
of weather for first six months of 1855-'65. Course of the epidemic 
in New York, 1866. Diagram of thermometric and barometric observa 
tions at Cooper Union, May, June, 1870, Oran W. Morris. Map show 
ing localities of cholera in New York, May, 1866-December, 1867, Dr 
F. J. Randall. Mean temperature of seasons, 1869-'70; O. W. Morris, 
Meteorological Journal at College Place, May 24, 1857-June 4, 1862 
A. E. Thatcher. Meteorological remarks to accompany register for 1875 
O. W. Morris. Notes on the meteorology of i)enitentiary hospital 
Blackwell's Island, 1856, Dr. W. Sanger. Probabilities for each moon 
187L Summary of meteorological observations, 1868, Oran W. Mor 
ris. Weather chart showing effects of meteorological influences on mor 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 107 

tality in Xew York, Dr. W. F. Thorns. Weather notes, January, 1856, 
J. S. Gibbons. Weekly reports of meteorological observations at Cen- 
tral Park Observatory, l8G7-'73. 

Nichols. — Weather notes, periodical phenomena, &c., 1857, 1858, R. 
Howell. 

North Hammond. — Account of earthquake December 18, 1868, C. 
A. Wooster. Observations of the weather, January-April, 18GG, C. A. 
Wooster. 

North Volney. — Meteorological report February, 1868, February, 18G9, 
June, 18G9, J. M. Partrick. 

Ogdensburgh. — Daily weather observations, January, March, 1855, W. 
E. Guest. Measurements of Saint Lawrence, W. E. Guest. Meteorologi- 
cal remarks October, 1849-September, 1850. 

Ovid. — Register of rain-fall April-July, 1856, J. W. Chickering. 

Palisades. — Observations of weather for the year 18G8, W. S. Gil- 
man, jr. 

Penn Tan. — Diagram of daily mean temperature, February, 1855, U. 
P. Sartwell. Diagram of fluctuations of barometer December, 18o!J, 
Dr. H. P. Sartwell. Meteorological registers, January, 1857-April, 1858, 
Dr. H. P. Sartwell. Meteorological registers, 1853 and 1859, Dr. H. P. 
Sartwell. Summary of observations for 1873, George R. Youngs. 

Rochester. — Meteorology of Eochest€r, 1829-'33. Meteorological ob- 
servations 1831-33, Doctor Main. Meteorological observations, 185G, 
W. C. Pratt. Rise of water in Lake Ontario, 1845-1852, C. Dewey. 

Rouse's Point. — Meteorological journal, 1845-1853, John Bratt. 

Saugerties. — Thermometric observations by Rev. R. G. Williams, Jan- 
uary, 18G3-June, 1865. 

iSing Sing. — Rain-fall observations June, 1873-January, 1875, and 
comparison of same with records of Croton Aqueduct. 

South Hartford. — Periodical phenomena, lSG0-'65, G. M. Ingalsbe. 

Spencertown. — Meteorological abstracts, 1855, C. A. W. Morehouse. 

Staten Island. — Meteorological report, 1871, '73, C. Keutgen, jr. 

Troy. — Weather notes, 1868-'72. Meteorological report January- 
February, 1873, J. W. Heimstreet. 

Waterford. — Thermometric record, 1856, J. C. House. 

West Bay. — Weather notes, 1858, Jude M. Young. 

Willefs Point. — Results of hourly observations by the battalion of 
engineers, 1868-1872. 

NOETH CABOLINA. 

Western North Carolina, its agricultural resources, mineral wealth, 
climate, salubrity, and scenery, Dr. H. P. Gatchell, Milwaukee, 1870. 
Extract from letter to Ealeigh Standard, T. L. Clingman. 

Clinton. — Meteorological observations, B. F. Grady, jr. 

Lenoir. — Meteorological report from the Davenport female college, 
May-September, 1869 ; July-September, 1870. Meteorological report, 
October, 1869-June 1870, Lenoir female college. 



108 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Murfrcctiboroufjli. — Eecordof meteorological observations, A. McDow- 
ell, 185G-'G1. 

Scuj>pcrnonfj. — List of trees growing in and near Scuppernong, J. 
Avery Shepherd. 

\\'estminHter. — Meteorological diary June-Angnst 1843, Joel Watkins. 

Wilson. — Meteorological observations, 1843-44, Kev. A. A. Benton. 

OHIO. 

Amesville. — "Weather report, December, 1872, E. H. Branly. 

Austinburyli. — Meteorological observations, June-December, 1857, 
James D. Uerrick. 

Belle Centre. — List of flowering jilants in the vicinity of Geneva Hall, 
Eobert Shields. 

Bowling Green. — Current weather, February, December, 18G6, John 
Clarke. Barometrical and tliermometrical observations, July-Decem- 
ber, 1857, January-March, 1858, W. R. Peck. 

Carthagena. — Ai)pendix to meteorological register, casual phenomena, 
September, 1870-December, 1873, R. Miiller. Barometric and ther- 
mometric charts, 1870-'73, R. Miiller. Meteorological curves, 1870-'73, 
E. ]\Iiil1er. 

Cheviot. — Miscellaneous data, winter 1855-'5G. E. Hannaford. Reg- 
ister of meteorological observations, January-July, 185G ; Edward 
Kohler. 

Cincinnati. — Account of weather for April, J. H. Shields. Maximum 
and minimum temperature, 1835-1853, Dr. Joseph Ray. Meteorolog- 
ical observations, 18G0, at Woodward High School, George W. Ilarper. 
Meteorological observations at College Hill, 1814-1848, Jackson. 

Cleveland. — Meteorological journal, 1857, G. A. Hyde. Meteorolog- 
ical register, 186G, G. A. Hyde. Meteorological report for 18G7. Mete- 
orological summary, 1858, Edward Colburn. 

Dayton. — Report of deaths, June-November, 1873. 

Eaton. — Summary of observations, January, 18G5, Miss O. Larsh. 

Hillsborough. — Rain-fall in 1857, J. McD. Matthews. Temperature 
and rain tall observations, 18G0, J. IMcD. Mattliews. 

Island Creel'. — Therraometric record, 18G8, Robert Mackey. 

Keene. — Account of snow-storm, March 24, 1852. 

Kelly's Island. — Meteorological observations, 18G(), George C. Hunt- 
ington. Meteorological tables, 1859-18GG, George C. Huntington. 

Lancaster. — Range of thermometer, May, 18G6, J. W. Towson. 

Xi7««.— Weather notes, 18G2-1870, Timotliy Shroyer. 

Marietta. — 31ean temperature of each month from 18G8 to 1871, Dr. 
George O. Hildreth. 

Mount Avburn. — Summary of meteorological observations at the Mount 
Auburn Young Ladies' Institute for 1871. 

New Lisbon. — Meteorological reports, 1855, 185G, J. F. Benner. 

Newton Falls. — Thermometric observations, March, 1871, with dia- 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROGICALAL MATERIAL. 109 

li^orth Lcioisburgli. — Meteorological record, 18G8. 

Fortsmouth. — Abstract of thermometric observations, 1824-1831, Dr. 
G. B, Hempstead. 

Saint ClairsriUe. — Geometrical exemplification of weather, 1819, 1820, 
compared with Cincinnati and VVasbiugton. 

SfeuhenviUe. — Meteorological observations for 18Go, Joseph B. Doyle. 
Tliermometric report, 18G8, Eoswell Marsh. Weather notes, 18G3- 
18G9, Roswell Marsh. 

Toledo. — Annual meteorological sj^nopses for 18G5-18C9, Dr. J. B. 
Trembly. 

Urbana. — Meteorological summary for 1859, 1864, M. G. Williams. 

OREGON. 

Climate of Western Oregon, comparison of differences between 
meteorological observations taken at G a. m., 12 m., G, 7, 2 and 9 p. m., 
Louis Wilson. 

Astoria. — Monthly means of meteorological observations, 185G-18G9, 
Louis Wilson. 

Columbia River. — Meteorological register, 1851, A. M. Harrison. 

Corrallis. — Weather report for the winter of 18G5, A. D. Barnard. 

Eola. — Weather record, September, 18G9, T. Pearce. 

Hood jR*uer.— Meteorological observations, 1865-'G8, 1872-'73, Chas. 0. 
Coe. W^eather notes September, 1872, Thomas M. Whitcorab. 

Mount Hood Station. — Temperature observations, December, 1872, 
Thomas M. Whitcomb. 

Oregon Cittj. — Diagram of weather, December, 1851, Eev. George M. 
Atldnson. Meteorological observations, 1849, 1850 ; Eev. George M. 
Atkinson. 

Portland. — Meteorological observations, December, 1858-April, 1859, 
G. H. Stebbins. 

Salem. — Meteorological report, July, 1857, W. Hamilton. 

PENNSYLVANIA. 

t 

Abi7igton. — Mean temperature observations, 18G4-1870, Eodman Sis- 
son. 

Ashland. — Thermometric record, 18G9, A. Custis. 

Blooming Grove. — Weather report, March, 18G5, J. Grathwohl. 

Carlisle. — Meteorological table, ]84G-'49. 

Ceres. — Meteorological observations, 1835-1852, Mrs. King. 

Chester. — Eeport of a committee of the Delaware County Institute of 
Sciences on the great rain storm find flood of August 5, 1843. 

Helmcare County. — Plants growing in Delaware County, Geo. Smith. 

Ephrata. — Periodical phenomena, 1871, 1873, W. H. Spera. 

Factorijville. — ;Meau temperature of seasons, 1864-'GG, E, Sisson. 

Fleming. — Abstract of meteorological registers, 185G, E. Brugger. 

Germantoicn. — Abstract from journal, January 8-February 11, 185G, 
Chas. J. Wister. 



110 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Hai-t-isburgh. — Mean temperature, 1842-1849. 

Johnstown. — Eegisters from self-recording barometer, B. Peelor. 

Lancaster Colliery. — Annual meteorological reports, 1S5G, 1858, 1859, 
P. Friel. 

Lansford. — Height of barometer, December, 1872, C. B. Burch. 

Lima. — Meteorological observations, 1857, Marshall Painter. 

Manchester. — Weather report, March, 1850, E. Marks. 

Meadrille. — Meteorology for April, 1872, C. M. Burkhalter. 

Morrisville. — Minimum temperature, 1790-1852. 

Nazareth. — Meteorological journal, 1787-1792. 

Philadelphia. — Abstract of Girard College observations, 1842-'45. An- 
nual report on meteorology and epidemics for 1858, Dr. Wilson Jewell. 
Barometric and thermometric curves, 1844. Baroinetical curves from 
three and a half years' hourly observations, 1842-'45, at Girard College. 
Weather log, 1870-72, F. Borner. 

Pittsburgh. — Weather signs, G- Albree. 

Reading. — Meteorological observations, 1857-'63, John Heyl Raser. 

Shamokin. — Condensed meteorological report, 1855-'59, P. Friel. 

Shirleysburgh. — Meteorological report, December 25-February 2, James 
Caruthers. 

Somerset. — Mean temperature at Somerset, Pa., 1844-1859. 

Tamaqua. — Barometrical record, January, 1873. 

Wellsborough. — Notes of storm of September, 1869, W. H. Cobb. 

Westchester. — Meteorological observations, 1855-1873, J. C. Green. 

Whitehouse. — Meteorological observations, July, 1856, Edward Kchler. 

Williamsport. — Weather notes, April, 1873, J. Emery. 

Worihington. — Meteorological observations, January-June, 1859. 

York. — Temperature report, July, 1866. 

RHODE ISLAND. 

Table showing amount of rain and melted snow for each month, 1870-'73. 

Providence. — Mean height of the barometrical column at Providence, 
A. Caswell. Meteorological diary, July, 1854. Meteorological observa- 
tions, 1850, 1852, 1855, 1858, A. Caswell. 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Camden. — Account of the meteorology of the great storm, January 
18, 1857, Dr. Young. 

Charleston. — Abstract of meteorological report, 1855-'58, Dr. J. L. 
Dawson. Extreme and mean monthly temperature within doors, 1842- 
m. Bain-fall, 1738-1759. 

Evergreen. — Meteorological report, September, 1858, E. J. Earle. 

Fulton. — Precipitation and cloudiness, 1818-1824, J. Dyson. 

Greenville. — Meteorological observations, 1839-1845, Elias Earle. 

Pendleton. — Account of mountainous region of South Carolina, Thomas 
G. Clemsou. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. Ill 

Pomaria. — Meteorological report, November, 1871-Jauiiary, 1872, D. 
Beujamin Busby. 

Saint Helena Island. — A daily journal of the temperature aud changes 
of the weather, January 6-April 6, 1826, found by Dr. Walker. 

Saint John. — A meteorological journal for the year 18G0, (Black Oak 
Agricultural Society, T. P. Ravenel, secretary, Charleston, 1861.) Meteor- 
ological journal, 1851, 1852, 1855, 1857, kept for Black Oak Agricultural 
Society, by H. W. Ravenel, secretary. 

Waccaman. — Diagrams of mean meteorological elements, 1856, Alex. 
Glennie. Meteorological notes, 1855. 

Wilkimville. — Weather report, March, April, 1867, Cearles Petty. 

TENNESSEE. 

Beech Qrove. — Weather notes, February and March, 1867. 

Dover. — Meteorological observations, 1846-'49, Dr. Farel. 

Elizabetliion. — Temperature observations, February, 1868, Charles H. 
Lewis. 

Glemcood. — Diagram of annual quantity of rain, 1851-'68, William 
Stewart. 

KnoxviUe. — Curves of horary variations of atmospheric pressure, 
June, 1854. Meteorological observations at East Tennessee University, 
1843-'45. 

Memphis. — Abstract of meteorological observations, July, 1869, Ed- 
ward Goldsmith. Meteorological and nosological report for the tirst six 
months of 1857, Dr. Daniel F. Wright. 

TEXAS. 

Climate of Texas, (Texas the Home for the Emigrant, Austin, 1873.) 
Total monthly rain-fall in Victoria County, October, 1872-October, 1873. 
Thomas B. Cocke. 

Austin. — Meteorological observations, 1857-70, J. Van Nostrand. 

Belmont Farm — Temperature tables, March, x\pril, 1872, T. M. Scott. 

Burkeville. — Table of the weather, August, 1850-December, 1859, 
N. P. W^est. 

Boerne. — Meteorological register, January, February, 1872, J. G. 
O'Grady. 

ClarlcsviUe. — Temperature notes, October aud December, 1869, John 
Anderson. 

Clear Lake. — Meteorological observations, July, 1871, George N. 
Leoni. 

Columhia. — Meteorological observations. Cedar Grove plantation, Jan- 
uary, 1867. 

Dallas. — Meteorological report, June, 1851-Augu8t, 1852, W. A. Ferris. 

Galveston . — Curves of barometer and thermometer, October-Decem- 
ber, 1851, February, 1853. 

Houston. — Meteorological observations, December, 1869, April-Octo- 



112 MISCKLLAXEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

ber, 1870, J. 11. Stanley. Meteorological observatious, 18G2-'G6, Dr. A. 
M. Pother. Meteorological reports, May, 1869-Marcb, 1870, J. H. Stan- 
ley. Meteorological tables, September, 1SG2-Jauuary, 1SG3. Weather 
notes, March, 18G7, Miss E. Baxter. 

Kaufman. — Meteorological report, September, November, 18GG, James 
Blown. 

Lavaca. — Meteorological report, December, 1868, January, 18G9, L. D. 
Hen ton. 

Xeic Ulni. — Meteorological reports, July, 1872-July, 1873, C. Ruuge. 

Oakland. — Weather notes, February, March, 1871, F. Simpson. 

Pin OaJc. — Meteorological table, 1850, W. H. Gantt. 

Red River County. — Meteorological observations, July, 1871, Allen 
Martin. 

Roundtop. — Meteorological table, 1859. 

San Antonio. — Chart showing rate of mortality, mean temperature, 
and relative humidity of air, 1873, F. Pettersen. Mean temperature and 
rain, 18G8-'71, F. Pettersen. Mean temperature, humidity, and rain,' 
1873. Table of mean temperature, humidity, and rain-fall, 1873, Dr. F. 
Pettersen. Table showing number of times wind blew from each direc- 
tion in 1873, F. Pettersen. Temperature, humidity, and rain-fall, 18G8-'G9, 
Fiederick Pettersen. Wind's i^rogress represented by a polygon. Dr. 
F. Pettersen. 

Washington. — Memorandum for 1S5G. 

UTAH. 

Meteorological journal of a journey from Fort Leavenworth to Salt 
Lake City, 1855, David A. Burr. 

Coalville. — Meteorological observations, 1805, 1870, Thomas Bullock. 
Eegister of maximum and minimum temperature, 18G9, September, 1871- 
January, 1872, T. Bullock. 

Uarrishnnjh. — Weather report, February, March, 1872, James Lewis. 

Mount Carmel. — Weather report, December, 1871-January, 1872, C. 
E. Bolton. Weather report, October, 1873, W. J. Earl. Weather report, 
February, 1873, D. B. Fackrell. 

Saint Marij''s. — Register of maximum and minimum temjjerature, June, 
18G5-August, 1807, Thomas Bullock. 

Salt Lake City. — Meteorological observations, 1850, Captain Stans- 
bury. Weather report, 18G8, William Fuller. 

VERMONT. 

Brandon. — Weather notes for January, 1865, R. Y. Marsh. 

Burlington. — Meteorological observatious, 1828-1855. 
Eant Monipelier. — Meteorological observations, 1855, B. I. Wheeler. 
Fayctfeville. — Record of meteorological observations by Gen. JMartin 
Field, 1826-1834. 
Killington. — Sketch of mountains around Killington, Hosea Doten. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 113 

Lunenhurgli. — Meteorological table, observations from 1848-1872, H. 
A. Cnttiiig. 

Middlelmry. — Account of earthquake, December 18, 1807, H. A. Shel- 
don. 

NoriciciL — Meteorological report, April-May, 185G, A. Jack man. 
Weather notes, January, 1872, S. B. Phelps. 

Stanstead. — Account of storm, December, 1856, January, 1857, Moses 
S. Field. 

West CAaWoiffe.— Observations on clouds, March, 1870, M. E. Wing. 
Periodical phenomena, record of snowstorms, phenomena of dew, «&c., 
M. E. Wing. Weather notes and meteorological phenomena, 18G9-'71, 
M. E. Wing. 

Woodstoclc. — Meteorological observations, December, 1873, Hosea 
Doten. Eecord of maximum and minimum temperature for November, 
1867, L. A. Miller. Measurements of rain and melted snow, 1857, Charles 
Marsh. 

VIRGINIA. 

Account of destructive storm, September 6, 1769. 

Animals found in Madison County. 

Diaries, 1844-1860. 

Capeville. — Statement of temperature, 1870, Emma C. Towusend. 

Culpepper. — Temperature, 1869-1872, A. Taliaferro. 

Fort Monroe. — Temperature observations, 1825-1854. 

Qarysvillc. — Meteorological table, 1856, Dr. T. F. Beckwith. 

Glade Creelc. — Account of storm of January, 1857, Dr. Henry ]\I. Price. 

QlasgoiD Station. — Temperature observations, 1866-'68, E. J. Davis. 

Gosport. — Meteorological table kept at navy-yard dispensary, 1846. 

Piedmont. — Notes of observations, August, 1871, Franklin Williams. 

Portsmouth. — Wind diagrams, February, 1852, N. B. Webster. 

Poivhatan Rill. — Rains of 1867, E. T. Tayloe. Weather notes, August, 

1866, May, 1867, May, October, December, 1868, 1869-1873, E. T. 
Tayloe. 

Rose Hill. — Meteorological statement, 1859, Geo. W. Upshaw. 
Boiigemont. — Account of snow-storm January 18, 1857, thermome- 
tric observations, December, 1855-December, 1856, Geo. C. Dickinson. 
>Safew.— Weather-log, 1868-'71, T. Horner, jr. 
Smithjield. — Meteorological journal, 1855, Dr. John E. Purdie. 
tSurry. — Tabular view of meteorological i>henomena in the winter of 

1867, B. W. Jones. 

Trihrooh Farm. — Weather notes, 1867-'68, W. H. Euffner. 

Washington College. — Barometrical observations, March, 1869, W. H. 
Euflher ; temperature reports, April-May, 1869, Professor Campbell. 

Wytheville. — Meteorological observations, October 31, 1872, J. A. 
Brown. 

Barometer and thermometer curves 1868-1872. 
8 s 



114 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL. .MATERIAL. 

WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 

Cope Disappointment. — Meteorological observations, 18G4-'G8. 

Cathlamet. — Notes for Deeeaiber, 1S73, Chas. McCall. Weather uotes, 
Sei)tenibcr, 18G8-September, 1869, December, 1873, Chas. McCall. 

Union Eidge. — Weather notes, January-March, 1871, Thos. M. Whit- 
comb. 

WEST VIRGINIA. 

Temperature observations, January-July, 18G8, S. J. Stump. 

Weather notes, March, April, 18GG, W. H. McDowell. 

Eanaicha Salines. — Depths of rain, April, 1857-April, 1858, W. C. 
Reynolds. Meteorological observations, 1828-1842, 18oC L. D. S. Ruft- 
ner. 

Sheets'' Mills. — Table showing highest and lowest range of thermome- 
ter, 185G-18G5, Hendricks Clark. 

Weston. — Meteorological reports, 1869-'73, Benjamin Owen. Meteor- 
ological report, December, 1873. Temperature observations. May, June, 
1870. 

WISCONSIN. 

Map of Wisconsin, with lines showing effect of Lake Michigan on 
temperature, I. A. Lapham. 

On the climate of the country bordering on the great North American 
lakes, with map, 1. A. Lapham. 

Baysfield. — Meteorological observations, March, 186G, Andrew Tate. 

Beaver Dam. — Account of hail-storm. May, 1855, Reuben Smith. 

Beloit. — Abstract of meteorological observations, 1873, A. A. Blais- 
dell. 

Detroit. — Annual summary of weather record for 1873, F.W. Higgins. 

Hartford. — Meteorological observations, 1859-'G2, llopewell Cox. 

Rimjham. — IMeteorological reports, 18G7, John de Lyser. 

La Pointe. — Thermometric record, July-September, 185G, Edwin Ellis. 

Le Roy. — Remarks on the weather, August, 1873, E. H. Benton. 

Manitoicoc. — Amount of rain and melted suow, 18G3-72, Jacob L)7ps. 
Das Gedeihen der Pflanzen, Jacob Lups. Meteorological table showing 
the temperature from 1852-1871 iuclusive, Jacob Lups. IMeteorological 
observations, October, 1851-December, 185G, Jacob Lups. Meteorologi- 
cal tables, 1852-18GG, Jacob Lups. 

MilicauJiee. — Atmospheric tide deduced from hourly observations in 
October, November, and December, 18G8, and Januarj^ and February, 
18G9, 1. A. Lapham. Table showing mean temperature, 1837-18G4, L A. 
Lapham. 

Xew Danemora. — Meteorological observations, 1858, Emil Haenser, 

Odanah. — Register of thermometric observations, November, 1855- 
March, 185G, Dr. Myron Tompkins. 

Plattcvillc.— Meteorological abstracts, January and June,' 1855, J. L. 
Pickard. 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 115 

Racine. — Meteorological observations, November, 1855-August, 1856, 
E. Seymour. 

Summit. — Meteorological observations, 1845-Septembcr, 1850, E. X. 
Spencer. 

Wautoma. — Meteorological notes, April, 1870, Jonathan Spaulding. 
Statement of weather, April, 1866-March, 1870, J. Spaulding. 

WYOlVnNG TERRITORY. 

Meteorological notes, January, February, 1871. 

Atlantic City. — Meteorological observations, 1871-'72, Geo. H. Lewis. 
Fort Laramie. — Hourly observations of thermometer, January 4-Jan- 
uary 7, 1864, Colonel Collins. 
Laramie City. — Account of climate. Dr. H. L. Latham. 

POLYNESIA. 

SANDWICH ISLANDS. 

Meteorological observations, ]846-'47, Dr. W. Hiklebrand. Account 
of volcanic disturbances. Dr. W. Hiklebrand. 

Hilo. — Therm ometric record, June, 1852-1853, Dr. H. M. Lyman. 

Honolulu. — Meteorological observations, 1868-'72, Capt. Daniel Smith. 
Meteorological observations, 1869-'72, Mrs. Dr. E. Hofman. 

Laliainaluna. — Meteorological observations, April-June, 1844. 

SOUTH AMERICA. 

BOLIYIA. 

San Luis Potosi. — Diagram of temperature observations at 6 a. m. and 

2 and 10 p. m. 

ECUADOR. 

Guayaquil. — Meteorological observations, October, 1868, A. Destruze. 

G 'JIANA. 

British Guiana. 

Gcorgeiown. — Daily mean of meteorological elements at Georgetown 
observatory, January-June, 1854, February, 1864, P. Sandemau. 

Dutch Guiana. 

Paramaribo. — Maximum and minimum temperature, August, 1859, C. 
J. Hering. Temperature and rain-fall observations, June 6-December 
15, 1867, January-July, 1869. Werkundige warmemingen te Paramaribo, 

1868-^69. 

PARAaUAY. 

Asuncion. — Meteorological observations, November, December, 1853, 
Klem. E. Hopkins. 



110 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

PERU. 

Arica. — Meteorologicul observations, 1854- '55, W. W. Evaus. 
Yqiiitos. — Meteorological records, 1871-74, V. Gait. Suuimary of ob- 
servations, 1871-72. 

VENEZUELA. 

Caracas. — Kegister of meteorological observations. 

Colonia Tovar. — Diagrams and tables of meteorological observations, 
1854-1856. 

La Guayra. — Temperature at the port of La Guayra, October, 1872, 
Meteorology and statistics, September 10-30, November 1-16, 1869, C. H. 
Loelir. 

Barometrical observations taken on journey to interior. Dr. A. Ernst. 

WEST INDIES, ETC. 

AZORES. 

Meteorological observations at Saint Michael in 1874, Thos. Hickling. 

BAHAMAS. 

Meteorological tables, January, 1841- August, 1845, J. 0. Lee. 

Meteorological journal at public library, Bahamas, 1858-59. 

Tnrh's Island. — Meteorological observations taken in January, 1SG5, 
at United States consulate. Meteorological observations, July-Octobei', 
1867. Observations taken at Turk's Island, 1860. 

BARBADOS. 

Meteorological observations taken at Little Island, Saint Joseph, 1873. 

Eain-fall in Barbados, 1872-'73. 

IJain-fall and meteorological observations, 1873. 

BERMUDA. 

Abstract of the Eoyal Engineers' meteorological observations at Ber- 
muda, 1859. 

Extract from the meteorological report of observations taken at Cen- 
tial Signal-Station, 1800-'64. 

CUBA. 

Havana. — Observaciones meteorologicas, 1842, L. R. Gibbes. 

HAYTL 

Port au Prince. — Extrait des registres de la station m^t^orologique 
snr hi (juantit6 de pluie annuelle qui tombe au Port au Prince, 1867, 
(iMoniteur, 15 aout, 1868.) Sur la pluie tombce au Port au Prince en 
1S68, et sur la temperature, (Le Moniteur, fiSvrier, 1869.) Sur la tem- 
perature du Port au Prince, (Moniteur, samedi, 14 uovembre, 1865.) 



MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 117 

JAJVIAICA. 

Up Paak Camp, meteorological observations, January-March, 1856, 

ST. CROIX. 

Notice of earthquake, March 19, 1868, E. H. Perkins. 

ST. MARTIN. 

Notice of earthquakes, January, 1869. 

MISCELLANEOUS AND UNKNOWN LOCALITIES. 

Abstract of logs and observations taken at sea. 

Account of meteorological observations in New Granada, Central 
America, Mexico, and Alabama, A. Cornette. 

Curvas correspondientes, de Abril de 1866. 

Map of Polar Sea, illustrative of acquired facts, M. S. Fields. 

Maximum, minimum, and mean temperature, 1871. 

Meteorological observations, 1829. 

Meteorological observations, 1870, G. C. Doane. 

Meteorological observations, April, 1855-March, 1857. 

Meteorological observations at sea, 1807-1812. 

Meteorological observations, June, 1847-April, 1819. 

Meteorological observations, registered on board yacht Fox, June, 
1857-September, 1859, F. L. McClintock. 

Meteorological observations, October, 1867. 

Meteorological record, July-September, 1822. 

Meteorological record, December. 

Meteorological report of United States frigate United States, April- 
July, 1844. 

Meteorological report of United States revenue steamer Wyauda, 
May-October, 1868. 

Pciiodical phenomena, 186G. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The executive committee of the Board of Regents respectfully- sub- 
mit the following report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the 
receipts and expenditures for the year 1874, and the estimates for the 
year 1875 : 

Statement of the fund at the beginning of the year 1875. 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithsou, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of 
August 10, 184G $515, 169 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 18G5, depos- 
ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance 
with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 - 26, 210 63 

Total bequest of Smithson 511, 370 63 

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, as 
authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1S67, de- 
rived from savings of income and increase in value of 

investments 108, 620 37 

Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of 
Carlisle, Pa 1, 000 00 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable 
semiannually in gold 651, 000 00 

In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund 
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates, 
viz: Consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates, 
$29,375.07; fractional certificate, $50.13: total, $88, 125.20; 
now valued at 35, 000 00 

Cash balance in the United States Treasury at the begin- 
ing of the year 1875, for current expenses 15, 909 99 

Amount due from First National Bank, Washington, 
$1,112.43, (present value unknown) 

Total SuiithiTon funds 15th January, 1875 $701, 909 99 



EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 119 

The coupous on the Virgiuia bonds held by the Institution were sold 
on the 19th May, 1874, by Eiggs & Co., with the tollowiug result : 

$1,200 Virginia coupons, at 77^ , $925 50 

$2,322 Virginia coupons, at 77 1, 787 91 

2, 713 44 
Less charges 17 01 

$2,095 S3 

This amount was deposited with the Treasurer of the United States 
on account of the current expenses of tbe Institution for the year. 

The value of the Virginia bonds held by the Institution has increased 
during the year about $2,000. 

Coupons due July 1, 1874, and January 1, 1875, are still uncollected, 
and will form part of the income for the year 1875. 

It was stated in the last report that at the time of the suspension of 
tlie First National Bank of Washington, (19th September, 1873,) where 
the current funds of the Smithsonian had been deposited, there were 
$8, 221.87 to the credit of the Institution ; and that on the 11th of No- 
vember, 1873, a dividend of 30 per cent., or $2,467.46, had been received, 
leaving a balance of $5,757.41 due. A second dividend on this de])osit 
was made on the 7th of April, of 1874, of $1,044.97, still leaving 
$4,112.43 due the Institution, which it is hoped will be received ac least 
in part during the coming year. 

Statement of the receipts and expenditures in 1874: 

EECEIPTS. 

Interest on $650,000 from the United States, 6 per cent., 

gold '. $39,000 00 

Interest on $1,000 from the Hamilton bequest, from 24th 

February, 1874, to 31st December, 1874 50 88 

Premium on gold 30th Juue, 1874, llO-J^; and 31st Decem- 
ber, 1874, 112|, (less commission) 4, 308 35 

Interest on Virginia stock, coupous sold, (9th May, 1874). 2,695 83 

Twenty per cent, dividend from First National Bank, (7th 

April, 1874) 1, 644 97 

Total receipts 47, 700 03 

EXPENDITURE. 

Total expenditure from the Smithson income in 1874 ....... 44, 016 72 

Balance unexpended of the annual income which is includ- 
ed in the cash balance in the Treasury, ($15,909.99) 3, 683 31 



120 REPORT OF THE EXECUriVE COivJ^IllTEE. 

Statement of expenditure in detail from the Smithson income^ 18V4. 

Building. 

Repairs of the buildiug $3, 507 CG 

Furniture and fixtures 717 73 

$4, 225 39 

General exjjenses. 

Meetings of the board 312 87 

Lighting the buikliug . . 523 15 

Heating the building ^ 305 47 

Postage 81 07 

Stationery 492 G4 

Incidentals 817 17 

Salaries and clerk hire 12, 730 00 

Purchase of books 457 43 

15,719 80 

Puhlications and researches. 

Smithsonian Contributions 7, 022 98 

Miscellaneous collections 7, 3G3 67 

Eeports 6G4 92 

Other ])ublications 93 40 

Meteorology and researches 881 97 

Apparatus 1, 142 GO 

Laboratory 9 10 

Lectures GOO 00 

17, 778 G4 

Exchanges. 

Literary and scientific exchanges, &c 5, 589 89 

Museum. 
Incidentals in addition to Government appropriation 703 00 



$44, OIG 72 
As usual, the Institution has during the past year made temporary 
advances for the payment of freight on Government collections, pur- 
chase of instruments for exploring parties, &c., the repayments of 
which, together with the amount received from sales of publications, 
have been deducted from the several items of the foregoing expendi- 
tures, as follows : 

Repayments. 

From exchanges, repayments for freight, &c, $1, 205 14 

From postage, repayments . 

From researches, repayments 

From Smithsonian Contributions, sales 

From miscellaneous collections, sales 

From salaries, repayment of advance 

From incidentals, sales of old material 





45 


45 




95 


7G 




115 


GO 




157 


G7 




40 


00 




( 


27 


$1 


GGG 


89 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 121 

The following are the estimates of receipts and appropriations of the 
Smitbson fund for the year 1875 : 

Estimated receipts. 

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 30th 
June, 1875, in gold $19, 500 

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 31st De- 
cember, 1875, in gold 19, 500 

Interest on the Hamilton fund GO 

Probable premium on gold, 10 per cent 3, 906 

Interest on Virginia Jt)onds -, 000 

$44, 966 

Provisional appropriations. 

For building $2, 000 

For general expenses 14, 000 

For publications and researches 20, 000 

For exchanges 7, 000 

For books and apparatus 1, 000 

For contingencies 966 

$44, 966 

NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The annual appropriation of Congress for the preservation of the 
Government collections intrusted to the care of the Institution has 
been continued during the past year, and an additional sum of 
810,000 has been granted for the fitting up and completing the cases in 
the new halls required for these collections. 

The latter appropriation has been expended in the construction of wal- 
nut table-cases with glass tops and sides, for the exhibition of the smaller 
ethnological specimens in the upi^er hall, and for large cases for mam- 
mals and fishes in the lower hall. The latter cases have also been so 
constructed as to serve as bases or platforms for restorations of the 
megatherium, hadrosaurus, glyptodon, &c., thus utilizing a large space, 
and forming a very striking and imposing feature of the collections. 

The following is a tabular statement of the condition of the Museum 
funds : 

For preservation of the Government collections. 

Balance unexpended of appropriation for the 

fiscal year ending June 30, 1874. (Statutes at 

Large, vol. 17, p. 5i8) See Report for 1873, 

page 145 $7, 500 00 

Amount expended to Deceinber 31, 1874. (See 

Museum Journal A, p. 73.) 7, 500 00 

Balance Nothing. 



122 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEZS. 

Appropriation for fiscal year ending June 30, 

1875. (Statutes, 1874, p. 210) $20, 000 00 

Expeuditure from July 1, 1874, to January- 11, 

1875. (See Museum Journal A, p. 100) 12, Oil 38 

Balance unexpended $7, 988 62 

For fitting up halls for Government collections. 

Balance unexpended of appropriation for fiscal 
year ending June 30, 1874. (Museum Journal 
A, p. 519) S5, 550 92 

Expeuditure on this account in 1874. (Museum 
Journal A, p. 527) 5, 550 92 

Balance Nothing. 

For steam-heating apparatus for Museum. 

Balance unexpended of appropriation for fiscal 
year ending June 30, 1874. (Museum Journal 
A, p. 533) 3, 462 03 

Expenditure on this account in 1874. (Museum 

Journal A, p. 527) 3, 402 03 

Balance Nothing. 

For fitting up and completing cases for collections. 

Appropriation for fiscal year ending June 30, 
1875. (Statutes, 1874, p. 210) 10, 000 00 

Expended on this account in 1874. (Museum 
Journal A, p. 100) 10, 000 00 

Balance - Nothing. 



From the above statement it appears that of the congressional appro- 
priations for the National Museum, the only amount unexpended and 
now available for the collections is $7,982.02. The estimates submitted 
by the Institution to Congress for the fiscal year ending 30th ,lune, 
1870, were as follows : 

For the preservation of the collections $25, 000 00 

For fitting up and completing the cases . 10, 000 00 

Total amount required $35, 000 00 

We have no reason to doubt that this sum, or the greater part of it, 
will be appropriated by Congress during the present session. 

All the payments on account of the National Museum have been made 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 123 

dnriug the past year, directly by tbe disbursing officer of the Depart- 
ment of the Interior, on the presentation of vouchers approved by the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The executive committee have examined five hundred and seventeen 
receipted vouchers for payments made from the Smithson income 
during- the year 1874, and four hundred and seventy simiUir vouchers 
for payments made from the congressional appropriations for the Na- 
tional Museum, making a total number of vouchers of nine bundled and 
eighty- seven. 

All of the vouchers have the approval of the Secretary of the Institu- 
tion, and a certificate setting forth that the materials and property and 
services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the pur- 
poses specified. 

As authorized by a resolution of the board 2Gth May, 1874, the com- 
mittee have also examined the account-books of the National Museum 
and find the balance of $7,988.02 to the credit of the appropriation for 
the "preservation of the collections" remaining on the 11th January, 
1875, to correspond with the certificate of the disbursing clerk of the 
Department of the Interior. 

The quarterly accounts current, bank-book, check-book, and ledger, 
have also been examined and found to be correct, showing a balance in 
the care of the Treasurer of the United States IStli January, 1875, of 
$15,909.99. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

PETEE PARKER, 
GEO. BANCROFT, 

Executive Committee. 

W^^HiNGTON, January 23, 1875. 



JOUKNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, D. C, January 20, 1875. 

lu accordance with a resolutiou of the Board of Regents, fixing the 
third Wednesday of January as the time for the commencement of the 
annual session, a meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Wednes- 
day, 20th of January, 1875, at 7 o'clock p. m., at the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

Present, the Chancellor, Chief- Justice Waite ; Hon. Henrj-- Wilson, 
Vice-President of the United States ; Senators H. Hamlin and A. A. 
Sargent; Representive Hon. E. R. Hoar; Hon. Peter Parker, Prof. 
Asa Gray, L. L. D., Prof. H. Copp(ie, L. L. D., Hon. George Bancroft, 
and Professor Henry, the Secretary. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

Excuses for non-attendance were received from Prof. Dana, Doctor 
Maclean, Hon. Mr. Stevenson, and Hon. Mr. Cox. 

The Secretary presented the following letter from General Sherman, 
which was read : 

Headquarters Army of the United States, 

Saint Louis, Mo., November 12, 1874. 

My Dear Professor : Having removed my headquarters and resi- 
dence from Washington to Saint Louis, it is proper that I should resign 
the post I have held for a few years as a Regent of your most honored 
Institution. I beg, therefore, that you will construe this letter as a 
tender of my resignation to the Board of Regents, or to such official as 
can accept the same. 

In thus severing my official connection with the Smithsonian, I beg 
leave to express to you and your associates mj' sense of the noble task in 
which you are engaged, and of my earnest prayer that the Institution 
under your management will continue to fulfil its magnificent design. 

A knowledge of science, that is of the laws of nature, is so intimately 
connected with the advance of higher civilization, that Mr. Smithson 
displayed unusual wisdom in so endowing his institution that it should 
give its principal labor to the increase of knowledge, to accumulating 
and securing new knowledge to be added to the old, which should be 
a special province of the universities of the whole earth. I therefore 
coincide with you perfectly in your special construction of the will, and 
hoi)e that the Regents will continue to construe it literally, as a legacy 
sacred in its nature and beneficial in the highest degree. 

1 beg you will assure your associates that among the many causes of 



JOURNAL OF PEOCEEDINGS. 125 

regret at leaving Washington, none impresses me more than that which 
forces me to sever my relations with the Eegents of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

With great respect, your friend and servant, 

W. T. SHEEMAN, 

General. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Smithso7iicm Institution, Washington, D. G. 

On motion of Dr. Parker, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Institution acknowledge the 
receipt of the letter from General Sherman, and express to him the 
high appreciation of the members of the board of his services as a 
Eegent, and their regret at the termination of his official connection 
with the Institution. 

The Secretary stated that Congress had passed a joint resolution 
electing Hon. George Bancroft, who had recently become a permanent 
resident of Washington, as Eegent to fill the vacancy occasioned by the 
resignation of General Sherman. 
On motion of Mr. Wilson, it was 

Resolved, That the vacancy in the Executive Committee, occasioned 
by the resignation of General Sherman, be filled by the apj)ointmeut of 
Hon. Georoe Bancroft. 

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations and con- 
dition of the Institution, which was read in part. He also presented 
exhibits of the finances, which were referred to the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

The Secretary stated that the annual accounts had been made up to 
the loth ot January, the date at which the semi-annual interest was 
received from the Treasury Department. 

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, presented a preliminary 
report on the condition of the Smithson fund, and the receipts and 
expenditures for the past year, and stated that all the vouchers for pay- 
ments had been carefully examined by the committee, who would sub- 
mit a full report at the next meeting. 

The Secretary explained several features of the appropriations and 
expenditures of the year, the deposits made with the Corcoran Art 
Gallery, Array Museum, Department of Agriculture, &c. 

A statement of the circumstances attending a theft of $154.50 from 
the office of the Secretary of the Institution, was made by Prof. Henry, 
and, on motion of Mr. Sargent, it was 

Resolved, That the amount of the loss ($151,50) be charged in the 
account to " incidental expenses." 

The reading of the report of the Secretary was then resumed. 

At the suggestion of the Secretary, it was 

Resolved, That a committee, consisting of Professors Gray and 



126 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

C{)pi)(5o, be appointed to examiue and report on the present condition 
of the museum, especially the ethnological department. 

The board then adjourned to meet on Saturday evening, January 23, 
at 7 o'clock. 

Washington, January 23, 1875. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at 7 o'clock 
J), m. 

Present, the Chancellor, Chief-Justice Waite. Senators H. Hamlin, J. 
W. Stevenson, and A. A. Sargent; Kepresentatives S. S. Cox, E. R. 
Hoar, G. W. Elazslton ; Hon. Peter Parker, Prof. Asa Gray, Prof. H. 
Coppee, Hon. George Bancroft, and the Secretary, Professor Henry. 

The minutes of the last meeting were approved. 

Dr. Parker presented the annual report of the Executive Committee, 
which was read and, on motion of Mr. Hamlin, adopted. 

Dr. Gray, from the special committee to examine the museum, pre- 
sented the following report, which, on motion of Mr. Sargent, was ac- 
cepted and ordered to be printed in the proceedings of the board : 

REPORT OP SPECIAL COiMMITTEE ON THE MUSEUM. 

Your committee appointed to examiue the museum has devoted as 
much time to the examination as the members of it could secure during 
the past two or three days, and would respectfully offer a few remarks 
upon its condition. It is not supposed that any full or detailed report 
is expected. We will confine our observations to the ethnological 
museum, the only one we have found time to inspect with any care. 

At the previous session of the board, about nine months ago, the 
large upper hall had barely been made ready to receive the ethnological 
and archaeological collections, and a portion of the wall-cases only were 
in i)lace. The progress that has been made in the interval is very grati- 
fying. The hall, although not filled, has been well supplied with glazed 
cases, for the most part excellent in plan and construction ; and the very 
large and varied collection of objects is arranged in them and dis- 
played to public view. There is still much to be done in perfecting the 
the arrangement and the labeling, and there are recent accessions to be 
added. But even now, it is a great pleasure to see how well cared for 
and how important this museum is, aud how much it interests a numer- 
ous throng of visitors. In this respect it seems likely to be even 
more attractive than the museum of natural history underneath. It is 
only when an ethnological collection is brought together upon a com- 
prehensive scale, and is well arranged upon some intelligible principle, 
that any one realizes its interest and importance. 

The arrangement which is, as we may say, technological rather than 
geogra[)hical, appears to be the one best adapted for such a museum — 
most useful to the serious student as well as most instructive and 
curious to the general visitor. Objects of tlie same class or subservient 



JOUlJ^AL OF PROCEEDINGS. 127 

to the same purpose are brought together from whatever country, and 
of whatever age. Articles of dress, ornament, or food, implements for 
their preparation, utensils for domestic use, nets, weapons, and the like 
thus illustrate each other. 

Among the special collections, newly put together, we were much in- 
terested in the very full one of the food, especially the vegetable food 
of the different tribes of the North American Indians ; in the collection 
of their cradles or analogous appliances for the care of infants ; in the 
collection of musical instruments, or what was intended to answer the 
purpose of music ; and in the fine pottery of the Arizonian and other 
tribes. 

The museum is especially rich in stone implements of the North 
American continent, mainly prehistoric; also in specimens of the sur- 
vival of the art of working stone weapons of the finest kind, in some of 
our native tribes. 

In the further development of the museum it may be thought best to 
arrange the archaeological specimens in a sei^arate series, but, as to 
America, it is not easy to draw a line between what is prehistoric, and 
what belongs essentially to the present era. 

A great number of duplicates will soon be ready for exchange. Be- 
sides proper duplicates, freely available for exchange, there is, wherever 
the materials and the subject admit of it, a selected series carefully 
packed away in the lower part of the cases, or directly underneath the 
typical specimens or specimens selected for exhibition. For public in- 
spection in very large museums it is now- a recognized principle that 
the half is better than the whole ; that typical specimens, those that 
best exemplify the leading forms or plans, should be exhibited in prefer- 
ence to full series of gradations and modifications. But the serious in- 
vestigator needs all the forms, and this selected students' series, which 
is mostly out of sight, is carefully preserved for, and is accessible to, 
his use. 

A great deal of important ethnological matter has of late years been 
collected in the form of photographs, and it seems obviously important 
that such collections should be systematically made and preserved, is 
not on the large scale, yet in the compact and effective form of stereo- 
scopic views. If the figures, the costumes, and the dwellings of our 
various tribes still remaining are not perpetuated in this way very 
promptly, much which is now easy to preserve will be irreirievably lost 
to the future. 

In this connection we would suggest that it might be well to provide 
a series of figures characteristic of the races of men, and especially of 
the North American races and tribes. This would require considerable 
room for exhibition and a great deal of judgment as to the mode of 
getting up the material to be employed, and the extent to which this 
kind of illustration should be introduced. 

This museum is very rapidly increasing, audit is remarkable that the 



128 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

accessious are made almost witbout pecuniary cost. Hardly auy have 
beeu purchased. They came from scientific or curious explorers, whom 
the Smithsonian Institution is everywhere exciting and furthering, and 
from Government expeditious commissioned mainly for other important 
objects; aud the facilities in the way of transportatiou controlled by 
the Institution are such tliat even the cost of their delivery in Wash- 
ington is trifling. 

It will be interesting to know to what extent the museums which 
the Smithsonian Institution has in charge are visited by the public. 
The committee would suggest the use of a recording turnstile at the 
entrance, by which tbe number of visitors might be indicated and pre- 
served with very little trouble. 
Eespectfully submitted. 

ASA GRAY. 

HENEY COPPEE. 

Doctor Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, stated that the 
heating-apparatus now employed was found insufficient in extremely cold 
weather to warm the building, particularly the new ethnological hall, 
and suggested the propriety of asking Congress to appropriate $2,500 
to increase the means for heating the building. 

Mr. Bancroft remarked that this was not asking anything for the 
benefit of the Smithsonian Institution, but for the comfort of the people 
of the United States who come here to see the great collections of the 
Government, and who should certainly be i)rovided with the means of 
doing this without the danger of taking cold. 

On motion of Mr. Bancroft it was — 

Besolved, That Congress be requested to make an appropriation of 
$2,500 to increase the heating capacity of the apparatus used to warm 
the rooms occupied by the Government collections. 

The reading of the report of the Secretary was then continued. 
On motion of Mr. Cox, it was — 

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be accepted and transmitted 
to Congress as usual. 

The board then adjourned sine die. 



LAPLACE. 



EULOGY BY ARAGO BEFORE THE FRENCH ACADEMY. 



Translated by Prof. Baden Powell. 



Having been appointed to draw up the report of a committee of the 
Chamber of Deputies, -wbich was nominated in 1842, for the purpose of 
taking into consideration the expediency of a proposal submitted to the 
chamber by the minister of public instruction, relative to the publica- 
tion of a new edition of the works of Laplace at the public exi)ense, I 
deemed it to be my duty to embody in the report a concise analysis of 
the works of our illustrious countryman. Several persons, influenced, 
perhaps, by too indulgent a feeling toward me, having expressed a wish 
that this analysis should not remain buried amid a heaj) of legislative 
documents, but that it should be published in the Annuaire du Bureau 
des Longitudes, I took advantage of this circumstance to develop it 
more fully, so as to render it less unworthy of public attention. The 
scientific part of the report presented to the Chamber of Deputies will 
be found here entire. It has been considered desirable to suppress the 
remainder. I shall merely retain a few sentences containing an expla- 
nation of the object of the proposed law, and an announcement of the 
resolutions which were adopted by the three powers of the state. 

Laplace has endowed France, Europe, the scientific world, with three 
magnificent compositions, the Traite de Mecanique Celeste, the Exposi- 
tion du Syst^me du Monde, and the Theorie Analytique des Probabili- 
tes. In the present day (1842) there is no longer to be found a single 
copy of this last work at any book-seller's establishment in Paris. The 
edition of the Mecanique Celeste itself will soon be exhausted. It was 
painful, then, to reflect that the time was close at hand when persons 
engaged in the study of the higher mathematics would be compelled, 
for want of the original work, to inquire at Philadelphia, atjS"ew Y'ork, 
or at Boston for the English translation of the chef (Vcevre of our coun- 
tryman by the excellent geometer, Bowditch. These fears, let us hasten 
to state, were not well founded. To republish the Mecanique Celeste 
was, on the part of the famih^ of the illustrious geometer, to perform a 
pious duty. Accordingly, Madame de Laplace, who is so justly, so i)ro- 

foundly attentive to everv circumstance calculated to enhance the re- 

9 s 



130 LAPLACE. 

Down of the name which she bears, did not hesitate about pecuniary 
considerations. A small proi)erty uear Pont I'Eveque was about to 
change hands, and the proceeds were to have been applied so that 
Frenchmen should not be deprived of the satisfaction of exploring the 
treasures of theMecauique C61este through the medium of the vernacu- 
lar tongue. 

" The republication of the complete works of Laplace rested upon an 
equally sure guarantee. Yielding at once to filial affection, to a noble 
feeling of patriotism, and to the enthusiasm for brilliant discoveries 
which a course of severe study inspired, General Laplace had long since 
qualified himself for becoming the editor of the seven volumes which 
are destined to immortalize his father. 

" There are glorious achieveinents of a character too elevated, of a 
luster too splendid, that they should continue to exist as objects of pri- 
vate property. Upon the state devolves the duty of preserving them 
from indifference and oblivion, of continually holding them up to atten- 
tion, of diffusing a knowledge of them through a thousand channels ; 
in a word, of rendering them subservient to the public interests. 

" Doubtless the minister of public instruction was influenced by these 
considerations when, upon the occasion of a new edition of the works of 
Laplace having become necessary, he demanded of you to substitute the 
great French family for the personal family of the illustrious geometer. 
We give our full and unreserved adhesion to this proposition. It springs 
from a feeling of patriotism, which will not be gainsaid by any one iu 
this assembly." 

In fact, the Chamber of Deputies had only to examine and solve this 
single question : "Are the works of Laplace of such transcendent, such 
exceptional merit that their republication ought to form the subject of 
deliberation of the great powers of the state ? An opinion prevailed 
that it was not enough merely to appeal to public notoRiety, but that it 
was necessary to give an exact analysis of the brilliant discoveries of 
Laplace in order to exhibit more fully the importance of the resolution 
about to be adopted. Who could hereafter propose on any similar occa- 
sion that the chamber should declare itself without discussion when a 
desire was felt, i)revious to voting in favor of a resolution so honorable 
to the memory of a great man, to fathom, to measure, to examine mi- 
nutely and from every point of view monuments such as the Mecanique 
Celeste and the Exposition du Systeme du Monde ? It has ai)peared to 
me that the report drawn up in the name of a committee of one of the 
three great powers of the state might worthily close this series of bio- 
graphical notices of eminent astronomers."* 

The Marquis de Laplace, peer of France, one of the forty of the French 
Academy, member of the Academy of Sciences and of the Bureau dcs 
Longitudes, an associate of all the great academies or scientific societies 

*" The author hero refers to the series of biographies contained iu tome III of the Notices 
Biographiques. — TUAKSLATOR. 



LAPLACE. 131 

of Europe, was born at Beaumonten-Ange, of parents belonging to the 
class of small farmers, on the 28tli day of March, 1749. He died on the 
5th of March, 1827. 

The first and second volumes of the Mecanique Celeste were pub- 
lished in 1799; the third volume appeared in 1802; the fourth volume 
in 18U5. As regards the fifth volume, books XI and XII were pub- 
lished in 1823; books XIII, XIV, and XV in 1824, and book XVI in 
1825. The Theorie des Probabilites was published in 1812. We shall 
now present the reader with the history of the principal asLronomical 
discoveries contained in these immortal works. 

Astronomy is the science of which the human mind may most justly 
boast. It owes this indisputable pre-eminence to the elevated nature of 
its object, to the grandeur of its means of investigation, to the certainty, 
the utility, and the unparalleled magnificence of its results. 

From the earliest iieriod of the social existence of mankind, the study 
of the movements of the heavenly bodies has attracted the attention of 
governments and peoples. To several great captains, illustrious states- 
men, philosophers, and eminent orators of Greece and Eome it formed 
a subject of delight. Yet, let us be permitted to state, astronomy truly 
worthy of the name is quite a modern science. It dates only from the 
sixteenth century. Three great, three brilliant phases have marked its 
progress. In 1543, Copernicus overthrew, with a firm and bold hand, 
the greater part of the antique and venerable scaffolding with which 
the illusions of the senses and the pride of successive generations had 
filled the universe. The earth ceased to be the center, the pivot of the 
celestial movements. It henceforward modestly ranged itself among 
the planets; its material imjjortance, amid the totality of the bodies of 
which our solar system is composed, found itself reduced almost to that 
of a grain of sand. 

Twenty-eight years had elapsed from the day when the Canon of 
Thorn expired, while holding in his faltering hands the first copy of the 
work which was to diffuse so bright and pure a flood of glory upon 
Poland, when Wiirtemberg witnessed the birth of a man who was des- 
tined to achieve a revolution in science not less fertile in consequences, 
and still more difficult of execution. This man was Kepler. Endowed 
with two qualities which seemed incompatible with each other, a vol- 
canic imagination and a i)ertinacity of intellect which the most tedious 
numerical calculations could not daunt, Kepler conjectured that the 
movements of the celestial bodies must be connected together by simi)le 
laws, or, to use his own expression, by harmonic laws. These laws he 
undertook to discover. A thousand fruitless attempts, errors of calcu- 
lation inseparable from a colossal undertaking, did not prevent him a 
single instant from advancing resolutely toward the goal of which he 
imagined he had obtained a glimpse. Twenty-two years were employed 
by him in this investigation, and still he was not weary of it! What, 



132 LAPLACE. 

iu reality, are twenty-two years of labor to Lim who is about to become 
the legislator of worlds; who shall iuseribe his name iu iuefi'aceable 
characters upou the frontispiece of an immortal code; who shall be 
able to exclaim in dithyrambic language, and without incurring the 
rei)roaeh of any one, "The die is cast; I have written my book ; it will 
be read either in tiie present age or by posterity, it matters not which ; 
it may well await a reader, since God has waited six thousand years for 
an interpreter of his works!"* To investigate a physical cause capable 
of making the planets revolve iu closed curves ; to place the princii)le 
of the stability of the universe in mechanical forces, and not in solid 
supports, such as the spheres of crystal which pur ancestors had dreamed 
of; to extend to the revolutions of the heavenly bodies the general 
principles of the mechanics of terrestrial bodies, such were the ques- 
tions which remained to be solved after Kepler had announced his dis- 
coveries to the world. 

Very distinct traces of these great problems are perceived here and 
there among the ancients as well as the moderns, from Lucretius and 
Plutarch dowu to Kepler, Bouillaud, and Borelli. It is to Xewton, 
however, that we must award the merit of their solution. This great 
man, like several of his predecessors, conceived the celestial bodies to 
have a tendency to approach toward each other in virtue of au attract- 
ive force, deduced the mathematical characteristics of this force from 
the laws of Kepler, extended it to all the material molecules of the solar 
system, and developed his brilliant discovery in a work which, even in 
the present day, is regarded as the most eminent production of the 
human intellect. 

The heart aches when, studying the history of the sciences, we per- 
ceive so magnificent an intellectual movement efi'ected without the 
cooperation of France. Practical astronomy increased our inferiority 
The means of investigation were at first inconsiderately intrusted to 
foreigners, to the prejudice of Frenchmen abounding in intelligence and 
zeal. Subsequently intellects of a superior order struggled with courage, 
but in vain, against the unskillfuluess of our artists. During this period 
Bradley, more fortunate, on the other side of the Channel, immortalized 
himself by the discovery of aberration and nutation. 

The contribution of France to these admirable revolutions in astro- 
nomical science consisted, in 1740, of the experimental determination of 



* TliPse celebrated laws, known in astronomy as the laws of Kepler, are three in number. 
The first law is, that the planets describe ellipses aronnd the sun in their common focus; 
the second, that a line joining the planet and the sun sweeps over equal areas in equal times; 
the third, that the squares of the periodic times of the planets are proportional to the cubes 
of their mean distances from the sun. The first two laws were discovered by Kepler in the 
course of a laborious examination of the theory of the planet Mars ; a full account of this 
inquiry is contained in his famous work De Stella Martis, published in 1 609. The discovery 
of the third law was not effected until several years afterward. Kepler announced it to the 
world in his treatise on Harmonics, (1628.') The passage quoted below is extracted from 
that work. — Transl.^tor. 



LAPLACE. 133 

the spheroidal figure of the earth, and of the discovery of the variation 
of gravity upon the surface of our phmet. These were two great results ; 
our country, however, had a right to demand more : wheu France is not 
in the first rank she has lost her place.* 

This rank, which was lost for a moment, was brilliantly regained, an 
achievement for which we are indebted to four geometers. When 
Newton, giving to his discoveries a generality which the laws of Kepler 
did not imply, imagined that the different planets were not only at- 
tracted by the sun, but that they also attract each other, he introduced 
into the heavens a cause of universal disturbance. Astronomers could 
then see at the first glance that in no part of the universe, whether near 
or distant, would the Keplerian laws suflice for the exact representation 
of the phenomena ; that the simple, regular movements with which the 
imaginations of the ancients were pleased to endue the he.avenly bodies 
would experience numerous, considerable, perpetually changing pertur- 
bations. 

To discover several of these perturbations, to assign their nature, and 
in a few rare cases their nnmeiical values, such was the object which 
Newton proposed to himself in writing the Priucipia Mathematica Pbi- 
losophia^. Naturalis. 

Notwithstanding the incomparable sagacity of its author, the Priu- 
cipia contained merely a rough outline of the planetary perturbations. 
If this sublime sketch did not become a complete portrait, we must not 
attribute the circumstance to any want of ardor or perseverance ; the 
efforts of the great philosopher were always superhuman ; the questions 
which he did not solve were incapable of solution in his time. When 
the mathematicians of the Continent entered upon the same career, 
when they wished to establish the Newtonian system upon an incon- 
trovertible basis, and to improve the tables of astronomy, they actually 
found in their way difficulties which the genius of Newton had failed to 
surmount. 

Five geometers, Clairaut, Euler, D'Alembert, Lagrange, and Laplace^ 
shared between them the world of which Newton had disclosed the 
existence. They explored it in all directions, penetrated into regions 
which had been supposed inaccessible, pointed out there a multitude of 

* The spheroidal figure of the earth was established by the comparison of an arc of the 
meridian that had been measured, in France, with a similar arc measured in Lapland, from 
which it appeared that the length of a degrcd of the meridian increases from the equator 
toward the poles, conformably to what ought to result upon the supposiUlon of the earth 
having the figure of an oblate spheroid. The length of the Lapland arc was determined 
by means of au expedition which the French government had dispatched to the nortli of 
Europe for that purpose. A similar expedition had been dispatched from France about the 
same time to Peru, in South America, for the purpose of measuring an arc of the meridian 
under the equator, but the results had not been ascertained at the time to which the author 
alludes in the text. The variation of gravity at the surface of the earth was established by 
Richer's experiments with the pendulum at Cayenne, in South America, (lG73-'74,) from 
which it appeared that the pendulum oscillates more slowly, and consequently the force of 
gravity is less intense, under the equator than in the latitude of Paris. — Translatok. 



134 LAPLACE. 

phenomena which observation had not yet detectecl — finally- — and it is 
this which constitutes their imperishable glory — they reduced under 
the domain of a single principle, a single law, everything that was most 
refined and mysterious in the celestial movements. Geometry had thus 
the boldness to dispose of the future. The evolutions of ages are 
scrupulously ratifying the decisions of science. 

We shall not occupy our attention with the magnificent labors of 
Euler. We shall, on the contrary, present the reader with a rapid 
analysis of the discoveries of his four rivals, our countrymen.* If a 
celestial body — the moon, for example — gravitated solely toward the 
center of the earth, it would describe a mathematical ellipse. It would 
strictly obey the laws of Kepler, or, which is the same thing, the 
principles of mechanics expounded by Newton in the first sections of 
his immortal work. 

Let us now consider the action of a second force. Let us take into 
account the attraction which the suu exercises upon the moon. In other 
words, instead of two bodies, let us suppose three to oi)erate on each 
other. The Keplerian ellipse will now furnish merely a rough indication 
of the motion of our satellite. In some parts the attraction of the suu 
will tend to enlarge the orbit, and will in reality do so. In other parts, 
the effect will be the reverse of this. In a word, by the introduction of 
a third attractive body, the greatest comi)lication will succeed to a simple, 
regular movement upon which the mind reposed with complacency. 

If Newton gave a complete solution of the question of the celestial 
movements in the case wherein two bodies attract each other, he did 
not even attempt an analytical investigation of the infinitely more 
difticult problem of three bodies. The problem of three bodies, (this is 
the name by which it has become celebrated,) the problem for deter- 
mining the movement of a body subjected to the attractive influence of 
two other bodies, was solved for the first time by our countryman 
Clairaut.t From this solution we may date the important improve- 
ments of the lunar tables effected iu the last century. 

The most beautiful astronomical discovery of antiquity is that of the 
precession ofi the equinoxes. Hipparchus, to whom the honor of it is 
due, gave a complete and precise statement of all the consequences 

* It may, perhaps, be asked why we place Laj^rango among the French geometers. This 
is our reply: It appears to us that the individual who was named Lagrange Tournier — two 
of the most characteristic French names which it is possible to imagine — whose maternal grand- 
father was M. Gros; whose paternal great grandfather was a French ofiicer, a native of Paris, 
who never wrote except in French, and who was invested iu our country with high honors 
during a period of nearly thirty years, ought to be regarded as a Frenchman, although born at 
Turin. — Author. 

t The problem of three bodies was solved independently about the same time by Euler, 
D'Alembert, and Clairaut. The two last-mentioned geometers communicated their solutions 
to the Academy of Sciences on the same day — November 15, 1747. Euler had already, in 
1746, published tables of the moon, founded on his solution of the same problem, the details 
of which h subsequently' published, in 1753. — Tkanslatou. 



LAPLACE. 135 

which flow from this moYement. Two of these have more especially 
attracted attention. 

Bj reason of the precession of the equinoxes, it is not always the same 
groups of stars, the same constellations, which are perceived in the 
heavens at the same season of the year. In the lapse of ages the con- 
stellations of winter will become those of summer,, and reciprocally. 

By reason of the precession of the equinoxes, the pole does not always 
occupy the same place in the starry vault. The moderately bright star 
which is very justly named in the present day the pole star, was far 
removed from the pole in the time of Hipparchus ; in the course of a 
few centuries it will again appear removed from it. The designation 
of pole-star has been and will be applied to stars very distant from 
each other. 

When the inquirer, in attempting to explain natural phenomena, has 
the misfortune to enter ui^ou a wrong path, each precise observation 
throws him into new comiilications. Seven spheres of crystal did not 
suffice for reijresentiug the phenomena as soon as the illustrious astron- 
omer of Khodes discovered precession. An eighth sphere was then 
wanted to account for a movement in which all the stars participated 
at the same time. 

Copernicus having deprived the earth of its alleged immobility, gave 
a very simple explanation of the most minute circumstances of preces- 
sion. He supposed that the axis of rotation does not remain exactly 
parallel to itself; that in the course of each complete revolution of the 
earth around the sun the axis deviates from its position by a small 
quantity ; in a word, instead of sui^posing the circumpolar stars to ad- 
vance in a certiiiu way toward the pole, he makes the pole advance 
toward the stars. This hypothesis divested the mechanism of the 
universe of the greatest complicat»ion which the love of theorizing had 
introduced into it. A new Alphonse would have then wanted a pre- 
text to address to his astronomical synod the profound remark, so 
erroneously interpreted, which history ascribes to the King of Castile. 

If the conception of Copernicus improved by Kepler had, as we have 
iust seen, introduced a striking improvement into the mechanism of the 
heavens, it still remained to discover the motive force which, by alter- 
ing the position of the terrestrial axis during each successive year, 
would cause it to describe an entire circle, of nearl}" 50° in diameter, in 
a period of about 2G,U00 years. 

Newton conjectured tbat this force arose from the action of the sun 
and moon upon the redundant matter accumulated in the equatorial 
regions of the earth ; thus he made the precession of the equinoxes 
depend upon the spheroidal figure of the earth ; he declared that upon 
a round planet no precession would exist. 

All this was quite true, but Newton did not succeed in establishing it 
by a mathematical i)rocess. Now this great man had introduced into 
philosophy the severe and just rule : Consider as certain only what has 



136 LAPLACE. 

beeu deinoustrated. The demoustratiou of the Newtonian conception 
of tlie precession of the equinoxes was, then, a great discovery, and it 
is to D'Aleinbert that the glory of it is due.* The illustrious geometer 
gave a complete explanation of the general movement in virtue of 
wbich the terrestrial axis returns to the same stars in a period of about 
20,01)0 years. He also connected with the theory of gravitation the 
perturbation of precession discovered by Bradley, that remarkable 
oscillation which the earth's axis experiences continually during its 
movement of progression, and the period of which, amounting to about 
eighteen years, is exactly equal to the time which the intersection of the 
moon's orbit with the ecliptic employs in describing the 360° of the 
entire circumference. 

Geometers and astronomers are justly occupied as much with the 
figure and physical constitution which the earth might have had in 
remote ages as with its present figure and constitution. 

As soon as our countryman Richer discovered that a body, whatever 
be its nature, weighs less when it is transported nearer the equatorial 
regions, everybody perceived that the earth, if it was originally fiuid, 
ought to bulge out at the equator. Huyghens and Newton did more ; 
they calculated the difference between the greatest and least axes, the 
excess of the equatorial diameter over the line of the poles.t 

The calculation of Huyghens was founded upon hypothetic properties 
of the attractive force which were wholly inadmissible ; that of Newton 
upon a theorem which he ought to have demonstrated. The theory of 

* It must be admitted that M. Ara^o has here imperfectly represented Newton's labors 
on the great problem of the precession of the equinoxes. The immortal author of the 
Principia did not merely conjecture that the conical motion of the earth's axis is due to the 
disturbing action of the sun and moon upon the matter accumulated around the earth's 
equator; he demonstrated by a very beautiful and satisfactory process that the movement 
must necessarily arise from that cause ; and although the means of investigation, in his 
time, were inadequate to a rigorous computation of the quantitative effect, still his researches 
on the subject have been always regarded as affording one of the most striking proofs of 
sagacity which is to be found in all his works. — Translator. 

t It would appear that Hooko had conjectured that the figure of tlie earth might be spher- 
oidal before Newton or IIu3'gliens turned their attention to the subject. At a meeting of the 
Koyal Societj' on the 2>*th of February, lC7d, a discussion arose respecting the figure of Mer- 
cury, which M. Gallet, of Avignon, had remarked to be oval on tlie occasion of the planet's 
transit across the sim's disk on theTtu of November, 1G77. Hooke was inclined to suppose 
that the phenomenon was real, and that it was due to the whirling of the planet on an axis 
" which made it somewhat of the shape of a turnip, or of a solid made by an ellipsis turned 
round upon its shorter diameter." At the meeting of the society on the 7th of March, the 
subject was again discussed. In reply to the objection offered to his hypothesis on the ground 
of the planet being a solid body, Ilooke remarked that " although it might now be solid, yet 
that at tlio beginning it might have been fluid enough to receive that shape ; and that al- 
tiiough this supposition should not be granted, it would be probable enough that it would 
really run into that shape and make the same appearance ; and that it is not improbable but 
that the water here upon the earth might do it in some measure by the influence of the diur- 
nal motion, which, compounded with that of the moon, he conceived to be the cause of the 
tides." (Journal Book of the Royal Society, vol. vi, p. GO.) Richer returned from Cayenne 



LAPLACE. 137 

the latter was characterized by a defect of a still more serious nature ; it 
supposed the density of the earth, during the original state of fluidity, 
to be homogeneous.* 

When in attempting the solution of great problems we have recourse 
to such simplifications; when in order to elude difficulties of calculation 
we depart so widely from natural and physical conditions, the results 
relate to an ideal world, thej are in reality nothing more than llights of 
the imagination. In order to apply mathematical analysis usefully to 
the determination of the figure of the earth, it was necessary to aban- 
don all idea of homogeneity, all constrained resemblance between the 
forms of the superposed and unequally dense strata ; it was necessary 
also to examine the case of a central solid nucleus. This generality in- 
creased tenfold the difficulties of the problem ; neither Clairaut nor 
D'Alembert was, however, arrested by them. Thanks to the efforts of 
these two eminent geometers, thanks to some essential developments 
due to their immediate successors, and especially to the illustrious Le- 
gendre, the theoretical determination of the figure of the earth has 
attained all desirable perfection. There now reigns the most satisfac- 
tory accordance between the results of calculation and those of direct 
measurement. The earth, then, was originally fluid ; analysis has 
enabled us to ascend to the earliest ages of our planet.t 

In the time of Alexander, comets were supposed by the majority of 
the Greek philosophers to be merely meteors generated iu our atmos- 
phere. Daring the Middle Ages, persons, without giving themselves much 
concern about the nature of those bodies, supposed them to prognosti-. 



in the year 1674, but the account of his observations with the pendulum during hi.« residence 
there was not published until 1679, nor is there to be found any allusion to them during the 
intermediate interval, either iu the volumes of the Academy of Sciences or any other pub- 
lication. We have no means of ascertaining hovv Newton was first induced to suppose that 
the tigure of the earth is spheroidal, but we know, upon his own authority, that as early as 
the year 16G7 or 1668, he was led to consider the effects of the centrifugal force iu diminish- 
ing the weight of bodies at the equator. With respect to Huyghens, he appears to have 
formed a conjecture respecting the spheroidal figure of the earth independently of Newton; 
but his method for computing the ellipticity is founded upon that given in the Principia. — 
Translator. 

* Newton assumed that a homogeneous fluid mass of a spheroidal form would be in 
equilibrium if it were endued with an adequate rotatory motion and its constituent par- 
ticles attracted each other in the inverse proportion of the square of the distance. Maclaurin 
first demonstrated the truth of this theorem by a rigorous application of the ancient geome- 
try.— Translator. 

t The results of Clairaut's researches on the figure of the earth are mainly embodied in a 
remarkable theorem discovered by that geometer, and which may be enunciated thus : The 
sum of the fractions expressing the ellipticity and the increase of gravity at the pole is 
equal to two and a half times the fraction expressing the centrifugal force at the equator, 
the unit of force being represented by the force of gravity at the equator. This theorem is 
independent of any hypothesis with respect to the law of the densities of the successive 
strata of the earth. Now the increase of gravity at ilie pole may be ascertained by means 
of observations with the pendulum iu different latitudes. Hence it is plain that Clairaut's 
theorem furnishes a practical method for determining the value of the earth's ellipticity. — 
Translator. 



138 LAPLACE. 

cate sinister events. Eegiomoutanus and Tyclio Bralic proved by their 
observations that they are situate bej'ond the moon ; Heveliiis, Dortel, 
&c., made them revolve around the sun ; Newton established that they 
move under the immediate influence of the attractive force of that body • 
that they do not describe right lines ; that, in fact, they obey the laws of 
Kepler. It was necessary, then, to prove that the orbits of comets are 
curves which return into themselves, or that the same comet has been 
seen on several distinct occasions. This discovery was reserved for 
Halley ; by a minute investigation of the circumstances connected with 
the apparitions of all the comets to be met with in the records of history, 
in ancient chronicles, and in astronomical annals, this eminent philoso- 
pher was enabled to prove that the comets of 1682, of 1007, and of 1531 
were in reality so many successive apparitions of one and the same body. 

This identity involved a conclusion before which more than one as- 
tronomer shrank. It was necessary to admit that the time of a complete 
revolution of the comet was subject to a great variation, amounting to 
as much as two years in seventy-six. 

Were such great discordances due to the disturbing action of the plan- 
ets? 

The answer to this question would introduce comets into the category 
of ordinary planets, or would exclude them forever. The calculation 
•was difficult ; Olairaut discovered the means of effecting it. While success 
was still uncertain, the illustrious geometer gave proof of the greatest 
boldness, for, in the course of the year 1758, he undertook to determine 
the time of tbe following year when the comet of 1082 would re-appear. 
He designated the constellations, nay, the stars, which it would encoun- 
ter in its progress. 

This was not one of those remote predictions which astrologers and 
others formerly combined very skillfully with the tables of mortality, so 
that they might not be falsified during their life-time : the event was 
close at hand. The question at issue was nothing less than the creation 
of a new era in coraetary astronomy, or the casting of a reproach upon 
science, the consequences of which it would long continue to feel. 

Clairaut found by a long process of calculation, conducted with great 
skill, that the action of Jupiter and Saturn ought to have retarded the 
movement of the comet ; that the time of revolution, compared with that 
immediately preceding, would be increased 518 days by the disturbing 
action of Jupiter, and 100 days by the action of Saturn, forming a total 
of 018 days, or more than a year and eight months. 

Never did aquestion of astronomy excite a more intense, a more legit- 
imate curiosity. All classes of society awaited with equal interest the 
announced apparition. A Saxon peasant, Palitzch, first perceived the 
comet, ncnceforward, from one extremity of Europe to the other, a 
thousand telescopes traced each night the path of the body through the 
constellations. Tbe route was always, within the limits of precision of 
the calculations, that which Clairaut had indicated beforehand. The 



LAPLACE. 139 

prediction of the illustrious geometer was verified, in regard both to time 
and space. Astronomy had just achieved a great and important' triumph, 
and, as usual, had destroyed at one blow a disgraceful and inveterate pre- 
judice. As soon as it was established that the returns of comets might 
be calculated beforehand, those bodies lost forever their ancient prestige. 
The most timid minds troubled themselves quite as little about them as 
about eclipses of the sun and moon, which are equally subject to calcu- 
lation. In fine, the labors of Clairaut had produced a deeper impres- 
sion on the public mind than the learned, ingenious, and acute reasoning 
of Bayle. The heavens offer to reflecting minds nothing more curious 
or more strange than the equality which subsists between the movements 
of rotation and revolution of our satellite. By reason of this perfect 
equality the moon always presents the same side to the earth. The hem- 
isphere which we see in the present day is precisely that which our an- 
cestors saw in the most remote ages ; it is exactly the hemisphere which 
future generations will perceive. 

The doctrine of final causes which certain philosoiihers have so abun- 
dantly made use of in endeavoring to account for a great number of 
natural phenomena was in this particular case totally inapplicable. In 
fact, how could it be pretended that mankind could have any interest in 
perceiving incessantly the same hemisphere of the moon, in never ob- 
taining a glimpse of the opposite hemisphere ? On the other hand, the 
existence of a perfect, mathematical equality between elements having 
no necessary connection — such as the movements of translation and ro- 
tation of a given celestial body — was not less repugnant to all ideas of 
probability. There were, besides, two other numerical coincidences quite 
as extraordinary : an identity of direction, relaMve to the stars, of the 
equator and orbit of the moon ; exactly the same precessional movements 
of these two planes. This group of singular phenomena, discovered by 
J. D. Cassini, constituted the mathematical code of what is called the 
libration of the moon. The libration of the moon formed a very imper- 
fect part of physical astronomy when Lagrange made it depend on a cir- 
cumstance connected with the figure of our satellite which was not 
observable from the earth, and thereby connected it completely with the 
principles of universal gravitation. 

At the time when the moon was converted into a solid body, the ac- 
tion of the earth compelled it to assume a less regular figure than if no 
attracting body had been situated in its vicinity. The action of our 
globe rendered elliptical an equator which otherwise would have been 
circular. This disturbing action did not prevent the lunar equator from 
bulging out in every direction, but the prominence of the equatorial 
diameter directed toward the earth became four times greater than that 
of the diameter which we see perpendicularly. 

The moon would appear then, to an observer situate in space and ex- 
amining it transversely, to be elongated toward the earth, to be a sort of 
pendulum without a point of suspension. When a pendulum deviates 



140 LAPLACE. 

from the vertical, the action of gravity brings it back ; when tbe princi- 
pal axis of tbe moon recedes from its usual direction, tbe eartb in 
like manner compels it to return. 

We bave bere, tben, a complete explanation of a singular phenome- 
non, without tbe necessity of having recourse to the existence of an al- 
most miraculous equality between two movements of translation and 
rotation, entirely independent of each other. Mankind will never see 
but one face of the moon. Observation bad informed us of this fiict; 
now we know further that this is due to a physical cause which may be 
calculated, and which is visible only to tbe mind's eye ; that it is attrib- 
utable to tbe elongation which tbe diameter of the moon experienced 
when it passed from the liquid to tbe solid state under the attractive 
influence of tbe earth. 

If there bad existed origiimlly a slight difference between tbe move- 
ments of rotation and revolution of the moon, tbe attraction of tbe earth 
would bave reduced tbese movements to a rigorous equality. This at- 
traction would bave even sufficed to cause the disappearance of a slight 
want of coincidence in tbe intersections of the equator and orbit of tbe 
moon with the plane of tbe ecliptic. 

The memoir in whicb Lagrange has so successfully connected tbe laws 
of libration with the principles of gravitation, is no less remarkable for 
intrinsic excellence than style of execution. After baving perused tbis 
production, tbe reader will bave no difficulty in admitting that tbe word 
"elegance" may be ai)propriatel3' applied to mathematical researches. 

In this analysis we bave merely glanced at tbe astronomical discov- 
eries of Clairaut, D'Alembert, and Lagrange. We sball be somewhat 
less concise in noticing tbe labors of Laplace. 

After bavihg enumerated tbe various forces wbicb must result from 
the mutual action of tbe planets and satellites of our system, even tbe 
great Newton did not venture to investigate tbe general nature of tbe 
effects produced by them. In the midst of tbe labyrinth formed by in- 
creases and diminutions of velocity, variations in the forms of the 
orbits, changes of distances and inclinations, wbicb tbese forces must 
evidently produce, tbe most learned geometer would fail to discover a 
trustworthy guide. Tbis extreme complication gave birtb to a dis- 
couraging reflection. Forces so numerous, so variable in position, so 
different in intensity, seemed to be incapable of maintaining a condition 
of e(iiiilll)rium except by a sort of miracle. Newton even went so far as 
to suppose that the planetary system did not contain within itself tbe 
elements of indeflnite stability ; be was of opinion that a powerful band 
must intervene from time to time to repair the derangements occasioned 
by tbe mutual action of the various bodies. Euler, although farther 
advanced than Newton in a knowledge of tbe planetary perturbations, 
refused also to admit that tbe solar system was constituted so as to 
endure forever. Never did a greater philosophical question offer itself 
to the inquiries of mankind. Laplace attacked it with boldness, perse- 



LAPLACE. 141 

verance, and success. Tbe profound and long-continued researches of 
the illustrious geometer established with complete evidence that the 
planetary ellipses are perpetually variable ; that the extremities of their 
major axes make the tour of the heavens; that, independently of an 
oscillatory motion, the planes of their orbits experience a displacement 
in virtue of which their intersections with the plane of the terrestrial 
orbit are each year directed toward difierent stars. In the midst of 
this apparent chaos there is one element which remains constant, or is 
merely subject to small periodic changes, namely,themajor axis of each 
orbit, and consequently the time of revolution of each i)lanet. This is 
the element which ought to have chiefly varied according to the learned 
speculations of Newton and Euler. 

The principle of universal gravitation suffices for preserving the 
stability of the solar system. It maintains the forms and inclinations 
of the orbits in a mean condition which is subject to slight oscillations ; 
variety does not entail disorder ; the universe offers the example of 
harmonious relations, of a state of perfection which Newton himself 
doubted. This depends on circumstances which calculation disclosed 
to Laplace, and which, upon a superhcial view of the subject, would 
not seem to be capable of exercising so great an influence. Instead of 
planets revolving all in the same direction, in slightly eccentric orbits, 
and in planes inclined at small angles toward each other, substitute 
different conditions, and the stability of the universe will again be put 
in jeopardy, and, according to all probability, there will result a fright- 
ful chaos.* 



* The researches on the secular variations of the eccentricities and inclinations of the 
planetary orbits depend upon the solution of an algebraic equation eqiial in dejjree to the 
number of planets whose mutual action is considered, and the co-efficients of which involve 
the values of the masses of those bodies. It may be shown that if the roots of this equa- 
tion be equal or itnagiuary, the corresponding element, whether the eccentricity or the in- 
clination, will increase indefinitely with the time in the case of each planet ; but that if the 
roots, on the other hand, be real and unequal, the value of the element will oscillate in 
every instance within fixed limits. Laplace proved by a general analysis that the roots of 
the equation are real and unequal ; whence it followed that neither the eccentricity nor the 
inclination will vary in any case to an indefinite extent. But it still remained uncertain 
whether the limits of oscillation were not in any instance so far apart that the variation of 
the element (whether the eccentricity or the inclination) might lead to a complete destruc- 
tion of the existing physical condition of the planet. Laplace, indeed, attempted to prove, 
by means of two well-known theorems relative to the eccentricities and inclinations of the 
planetary orbits, that if those elements were once small they would always remain so, pro- 
vided the planets all revolved around the sun in one common direction, and their masses 
were inconsiderable. It is to these theorems that M. Arago manifestly alludes in the text. 
Le Verrier and others have, however, remarked that they are inadequate to assure the per- 
manence of the existing physical condition of several of the planets. In order to arrive at 
a definite conclusion on this subject, it is indispensable to have recourse to the actual solu- 
tion of the algebraic question above referred to. This was the course adopted by the illus- 
trious Lagrange in his researches on the secular variations of the planetary orbits. (Mem. 
Acad. Berlin, 1783-'84.) Having investigated the values of the masses of the planets, he 
then determined, by an approximate solution, the values of the several roots of the algebraic 
equation upon which the variations of the eccentricities and inclinations cf the orbits de- 



142 LAPLACE. 

Although the iuvariabilrty of the mean distances of the planetary 
orbits has been more completely demonstrated since the appearance of 
the memoir above referred to, that is to say, by pushing the analytical 
approximations to a greater extent, it will, notwithstanding, always 
constitute one of the admirable discoveries of the author of the Meca- 
niqne Celeste. Dates, in the case of such subjects, are no luxury of eru- 
dition. The memoir in which Laplace communicated his results on the 
invariability of the mean motions or mean distances is dated 1773.* It 
w'as in 1784 only that he established the stability of the other elements 
of the system from the smallness of the planetary masses, the incon- 
siderable eccentricity of the orbits, and the revolution of the planets 
in one common direction around the sun. 

The discovery of "whicli I have just given an account to the reader 
excluded, at least from the solar system, the idea of the Newtonian 
attraction being a cause of disorder; but might not other forces, by 
combining with attraction, produce gradually-increasing perturbations, 
as Newton and Euler dreaded? Facts of a positive nature seemed to 
justify these fears. 

A comparison of ancient with modern observations revealed the ex- 
istence of a continued acceleration of the mean motions of the moon 
and the planet Jupiter, and an equally striking diminution of the mean 
motion of Saturn. These variations led to conclusions of the most 
singular nature. 

In accordance with the presumed cause of these perturbations, to say 
that the velocity of a body increased from century- to century, was equiv- 
alent to asserting that the body coutinuall}' approached the center of 
motion. On the other hand, when the velocity diminished the body 
must be receding from the center. 

Thus, by a strange arrangement of nature, our planetary system 
seemed destined to lose Saturn, its most mysterious ornament, to see 
the planet, accompanied by its ring and seven satellites, plunge gradually 

pended. In this way he found the limitinj^ values of the eccentricity aud inclination for 
the orbit of each of the principal planets of the system. The results obtained by that great 
geometer have been mainly confirmed by the recent researches of Lo Verrier on tlie same 
subject. (Connaissance des Temps, 1843.) — TRANSLATOR. 

* Laplace was originally led to consider the subject of the perturbations of the mean mo- 
tions of the planets by liis researches on thetheory of Jupiter and Saturn. Having computed 
the numerical value of the secular inequality afiecting the mean motion of each of those 
plants, neglecting the terms of the fourth aud higher orders relative to the eccentricities aud 
inclinations, lie found it to bo so small that it might be regarded as totally insensible. 
Justly suspecting that this circumstance was not attributable to the particular values of the 
elements of Jupiter and Saturn, he investigated the expression for the secular perturbation 
of the mean motion by a general analysis, neglecting, as before, the fourth and higher 
powers of the eccentricities and inclinations, aud he found in this case that the terms which 
were retained in the investigation absolutely destroyed each other, so that the expression 
was reduced to zero. In a memoir which he communicated to the Berlin Academy of Sci- 
ences, in 1776, Lagrange first showed that the mean distance (aud consequently the mean 
motion) was not atfected by any secular inequalities, no matter what were the eccentricities 
or inclinations of the disturbing and disturbed planets. — Translator. 



LAPLACE. 143 

into iiDkuown regious, whitber the eye^ armed v.ith the most powerful 
telescope, has uever penetrated. Jupiter, on the other haud, the pkiuet 
compared with which the earth is so insiguificant, appeared to be mov- 
ing ill the opposite direction, so as to be ultimately absorbed in the in- 
candescent matter of the sun. Finally, the moon seemed as if it would 
one day precipitate itself upon the earth. 

There was nothing doubtful or speculative in these sinister fore- 
bodings. The precise dates of the approaching catastrophes were alone 
uncertain. It was known, however, that they were very distant. Ac- 
cordingly, neither the learned dissertations of men of science nor the 
animated descriptions of certain poets produced any imijression upon the 
public mind. 

It was not so with our scientific societies, the members of which re- 
garded with regret the approaching desiruction of our planetary system. 
The Academy of Sciences called the attention of geometers of all coun- 
tries to these menacing perturbations. Euler and Lagrange descended 
into the arena. Never did their mathematical genius shine with a 
brighter luster. Still the question remained undecided. The inutility of 
such eflbrts seemed to suggest only a feeling of resignation on the sub- 
ject, when from two disdained corners of the theories of analysis the 
author of the Mecanique Celeste caused the laws of these great phenom- 
ena clearly to emerge. The variations of velocity of Jupiter, Saturn, 
and the moon flowed, then, from evident physical causes, and entered 
into the category of ordinary periodic perturbations, depending upon 
the principle of attraction. 

The variations in the dimensions of the orbits, which were so much 
dreaded, resolved themselves into simple oscillations, included within 
narrow limits. Finally, by the powerful instrumentality of mathemati- 
cal analysis, the physical universe was again established on a firm foun- 
dation, 

I cannot quit this subject without at least alluding to the circumstances 
in the solar system upon which depend the so long unexplained varia- 
tions of velocity of the moon, Jupiter, and Saturn. 

The motion of the earth around the sun is mainl}^ effected in an ellipse, 
the form of which is liable to vary from the effects of planetary pertur- 
bation. These alterations of form are periodic ; sometimes the curve, 
without ceasing to be eliiptic, approaches the form of a circle, while at 
other times it deviates more and more from that form. From the epoch 
of the earliest recorded observations, the eccentricity of the terrestrial 
orbit has been diminishing from year to year ; at some future epoch the 
orbit, on the contrary, will begin to deviate i'rom the form of a circle, and 
the eccentricity will increase to the same extent as it previously dimin- 
ished, and according to the same laws. 

Now Laplace has shown that the mean motion of the moon around 
the earth is connected with the form of the ellipse which the earth de- 



14-4 LAPLACE. 

scribes arouud the suu ; that a diuiinntiou of the ecceutricity of the 
ellipse inevitably induces au increase in the velocity of our satellite, and 
vice versa; finally, that this cause suffices to explain the numerical value 
of the acceleration Avhich the mean motion of the moon has experienced 
from the earliest ages down to the present time.* 

The origin of the inequalities in the mean motions of Jupiter and 
Saturn will be, I hope, as easy to conceive. 

Mathematical analysis has not served to represent in finite terms the 
values of the derangements which each planet experiences in its move- 
ment from the action of all the other planets. In the present state of 
science, this value is exhibited in the form of an indefinite series of terms 
diminishing rapidly in magnitude. In calculation it is usual to neglect 
such of those terms as correspond in the order of magnitude to quantities 
beneath the errors of observation. But there are cases in which the 
order of the term in the series does not decide whether it be small or 
great. Certain numerical relations between the i^rimitive elements of 
the disturbing and disturbed planets may impart sensible values to terms 
which usually admit of being neglected. This case occurs in the per- 
turbations of Saturn produced by Jupiter, and in those of Jupiter pro- 
duced by Saturn. There exists between the mean motions of these two 
great planets a simple relation of commensurability, five times the mean 
motion of Saturn being, in fact, very nearly- equal to twice the mean 
motion of Jupiter. It happens in consequence that certain terms, which 
•would otherwise be very small, acquire from this circumstance consider- 
able values. Hence arise, in the movements of these two planets, ine- 
qualities of long duration, which require more than 900 years for their 
complete development, and which represent with marvelous accuracy all 
the irregularities disclosed by observation. Is it not astonishing to find 
in the commensurability of the mean motions of two planets a cause of 
perturbation of so influential a nature ; to discover that the definitive 
solution of an immense difficulty, which baffled the genius of Euler, and 
■which even led persons to doubt w hether the theory of gravitation was 
capable of accounting for all the iihenomena of the heavens, should de- 
pend upon the fortuitous circumstance of five times the mean motion of 
Saturn being equal to twice the mean motion of Jupiter 1 The beauty 

* Mr. Adams has recently detected a remarkable oversif^ht committed by Laplace and bis 
successors in the analytical investigation of the expression for this inequality. The cft'ect of 
the rectification rendered necessary by the researches of Mr. Adams will be to diminish by 
about one-sixth the co-efficient of the principal term of the secular inequality. This co-effi- 
cient has for its multiplier the square of the number of centuries which have elapsed from a 
given epoch; its value was found by Laplace to be 10". 18. Mr. Adams has ascertained 
that it must be diminished by 1".G6. This result has recently been verified by the researches 
of M. Plana. Its effect will be to alter in some degree the calculations of ancient eclipses. 
The astronomer royal has stated, in his last annual report to the board of visitors of the 
Royal Observatory, (June, 1856,) that steps have recently been taken at the observatory for 
calculating the various circumstances of those phenomena, upon the basis of the more correct 
data furnished by the researches of Mr. Adams. — Translator. 



LAPLACE. 145 

of tbe conception and the ultimate result are liere equally worthy of 
admiration. * 

* The origin of this famous inoquality may be best understood by reference to the mode 
in which the disturbing forces operate. Let P Q R, P' Q' R' represent the orbits of Jupiter 
and Saturn and let us suppose, for the sake of illus- , 

tration, that they are both situate in the same plane. r'y^ — ' ~"^\ 

Let the planets be in conjunction at P, P', and let >/\. \ ^^\N- 

them both be revolving around the sun S, in the / \ \ j^ \ 

direction represented by the arrows. Assuming that / /?'T' ~"^^\V ^ 

the mean motion of Jupiter is to that of Saturn ex- / / \\ \ \ 

actly in the proportion of five to two, it follows that t'[ ^/ "'\ Xp P 

when Jupiter has completed one revolution, Saturn I I / ~|^^ \'^ 

will have advanced through two-fifths of a revolu- \ I // \ \ 

tion. Similarly, when Jupiter has completed a revo- \ \ / •' J I 

lution and a half, Saturn will have eflected three- \ y\/ y / 

fifths of a revolution. Hence, when Jupiter arrives ^\/ /^^ / 

at T, Saturn will be a little in advance of T'. Let ^^^^"--^^ ^-^-^^^ 

us suppose that the two planets come again into con- ^ 

junction at Q, Q'. It is plain that while Jupiter has completed one revolution, and advanced 
through the angle P S Q, (measured in the direction of the arrow, ) Saturn has simply described 
around S the angle P' S' Q'. Hence the excess of the angle described around S, by Jupiten 
over the angle similarly described by Saturn, will amount to one complete revolution, or 
360°. But since the mean motions of the two planets are in the proportion of five to two, 
the angles described by them around S in any given time will be in the same proportion, and 
therefore the ex'jess of the angle described by Jupiter over that described by Saturn will be 
to the angle described by Saturn in the proportion of three to two. But we have just found! 
that the excess of these two angles in the present case amounts to 360°, and the angle de- 
scribed by Saturn is represented by P' S' Q' ; consequently 360° is to the angle P' S' Q' in 
the proportion of three to two ; in other words, P' S' Q' is equal to two-thirds of the circum 
ference, or 240°. lu the same w^ay it may be shown that the two planets will come into con- 
junction again at R, when Saturn has described another arc of 240°, Finally, when Saturu 
has advanced through a third arc of 240°, the two planets will come into conjunction at P, P', 
the points whence they originally set out ; and the two succeeding conjunctions will also mani- 
festly occur at Q, Q' and R, R'. Thus wo sec that the conjunctions will always occur in three 
given points of the orbit of each planet situate at angular distances of 120° from each other. 
It is also obvious that, during the interval which elapses between the occurrence of two con- 
junctions in the same points of the orbits, and which includes three synodic revolutions of the 
planets, Jupiter will have accomplished five revolutions around the sun, and Saturn will have 
accomplished two revolutions. Now, if the orbits of both planets were perfectly circular, the 
retarding and accelerating effects of the disturbing force of either planet would neutralize each 
other in the course of a synodic revolution, and therefore both planets would return to the same 
condition at each successive conjunction. But in consequence of the ellipticity of the orbits, the 
retarding effect of the disturbing force is manifestly no longer exactly compensated by the 
accelerative effect, and hence, at the close of each synodic revolution, there remains a min- 
ute outstanding alteration in the movement of each planet. A similar effect will be pro- 
duced at each of the three points of conjunction, and as the perturbations which thus ensue- 
do not generally compensate each other, there will remain a minute outstanding perturbation 
as the result of every three conjunctions. The efi'ect produced being of the same kind (whether 
tending to accelerate or retard the movement of the planet) for every such triple conjunction, it 
is plain that the action of the disturbing forces would ultimately lead to a serious derangement 
of the movements of both planets. All this is founded on the supposition that the mean 
motions of the two planets are to each other as two to five, but in reality this relation does 
not exactly hold. In fact while Jupiter requires 21 ,GG3 days to accomplish five revolutions, 
Saturn effects two revolutions -in 21,518 days. Hence when Jupiter after completing his 
fifth revolution arrives at P, Saturn will have advanced a little beyond P', and the con- 

10 s 



14(1 LAPLACE. 

\Yo have just explained bow Laplace demonstrated that the solar sys- 
tem can experience only small periodic oscillations around a certain 
mean state. Let us now see in what way he succeeded in determining 
the absolute dimensions of the orbits. 

What is the distance of the sun from the earth ? No scientific ques- 
tion has occni)ied, in a greater degree, the attention of mankind ; mathe- 
matically speaking, nothing is more simple. It sultices, as in common 
oi)erations of surveying, to draw visual lines from the two extremities of 
a known basr to an inaccessible object. The remainder is a process of 
elementary calculation. Unfortunately, in the case of the sun, the dis- 
tance is great, and the bases which can be measured upon the earth are 
comparatively very small. In such a case the slightest errors in the di- 
rection of the visual lines exercise an enormous influence upon the 
results. 

In the beginning of the last century, Halley remarked that certain in- 
terpositions of Venus between the earth and the sun, or, to use an ex- 
l)ression applied to such conjunctions, that the transits of the planet 
across the sun's disk, would furnish at each observatory an indirect 
means of fixing the position of the visual ray very superior in accuracy 
to the most perfect direct methods.* 

Such was the object of the scientific expeditions undertaken in 17G1 

junction of the two planets will occur at P, P' when they have both described around S an 
additional arc of about 8°. In the same way it may be shown that the two succeeding con- 
junctions will take place at the points q, q' r, r' respectively 8° in advance of Q, Q', R, R'. 
Thus we see that the points of conjunction will travel with extreme slowness in the same 
direction as that in which the planets revolve. Now, since the angular distance between P 
and R is ]'2(l°, and since in a period of three synodic revolutions, or yi,7')8 da5-s, the line 
of conjunction travels through an arc of 8°, it follows that in 892 years the conjunction of 
tlie two planets will have advanced from P, P' to R, R'. In reality the time of traveling 
from P, P' to R, R' is somewhat longer from the indirect effects of planetary perturbation, 
amounting to 920 years. In an equal period of time, the conjunction of the two planets 
will advance from Q, Q' to R, R' and from R, R' to P, P'. During the half of this period 
the perturbative oiTect resulting from every triple conjunction will lie constantly in one di- 
rection, and during the other half it will lie in the contrarj- direction; that is to say, 
during a period of 4G0 years, the mean motion of the disturbed planet will be con- 
tinually accelerated, and, in like manner, during an equal period it will be continually 
retarded. In the case of Jupiter disturbed by Saturn, the inequality in longitude 
amounts at its maximum to 21'; in the converse case of Saturn disturbed by Jupiter, the 
inequalitj' is more considerable in consequence of the greater mass of the disturbing planet, 
amounting at its maximum to 49'. In accordance with the mechanical principle of the 
equality of action and reaction, it happens that wliile the mean motion of one planet is in- 
creasing, that of the other is diminishing, and vice versa. We have supposed that the or- 
bits of both planets arc situate in the same plane. In reality, however, they are inclined 
to cadi other, and this circumstance will produce an eti'ect exactly analogous to that de- 
pending on the eccentricities of the orbits. It is plain tliat the more nearly the mean motions 
of the two ])lauets approach a relation of commeusurability, the smaller will be the displace- 
ment of every third conjunction, and consequently the longer will be the duration, and the 
i;reater the ultimate accumulation, of the inequality. — Tuanslatok. 

* The utility of observations of the transits of the inferior planets for dcterunniug the 
^olar parallax was first pointed out by James Gregory. (Optica Promota, IGW.)— Tkans- 
i.ATOU. 



LAPLACE. 147 

and 1769, on which occasions France — not to speak of stations in Eu- 
rope — was represented at the isle of Kodri^o by Pingrc; at the isle of 
San Dooiingo by Fleurin ; at California by the Abbe Ohappe ; at Pon- 
dicherry by Legentil. At the same epochs p]ngland sent IMaskelyne to 
St. Helena ; Wales to Hudson's Bay ; Mason to the Cape of Good 
Hope ; Captain Cooke to Otaheite, &c. The observations of the south- 
ern hemisj^here, compared with those of Europe, and especially with the 
observations made by an Austrian astronomer. Father Hell, at Ward- 
hus, in Lripland, gave, for the distance of the sun, the result which has 
since figured in all treatises on astronomy and navigation. 

No government hesitated in furnishing academies with the means, 
however expensive they might be, of conveniently establishing their ob- 
servers in the most distant regions. We have already remarked that 
the determination of the contemplated distance appeared to demand 
imperiously an extensive base; for small bases would have been totally 
inadequate to the purpose. Well, Laplace h^s solved the problem nu- 
merically, without a base of any kind whatever. He has deduced the 
distance of the sun from observations of the moon made in one and the 
same place ! 

The sun is, with respect to our satellite, the cause of perturbations which 
evidently depend on the distance of the immense luminous globe from the 
earth. Who does not see that these perturbations would diminish if the 
distance increased ; that they would increase, on the contrary, if the dis- 
tance diminished ; that the distance finally determines the magnitude 
of the perturbations ? 

Observation assigns the numerical value of these perturbations , 
theory, on the other hand, unfolds the general mathematical relation, 
which connects them with the solar parallax, and with other known ele- 
ments. The determination of the mean radius of the terrestrial orbit 
then becomes one of the most simple operations of algebra. Such is the 
happy combination by the aid of which Laplace has solved the great, the 
celebrated problem of parallax. It is thus that the illustrious geometer 
found for the mean distance of the sun from the earth, expressed in 
radii of the terrestrial orbit, a value diifering only in a slight degree from 
that which was the fruit of so many troublesome and expensive voyages. 
According to the oi^iuion of very competent judges, the result of the in- 
direct method might not imjjossibly merit the preference.* 

The movements of the moon proved a fertile mine of research to our 
great geometer. His penetrating intellect discovered in them unknown 
treasures. He disentangled them from everything which concealed them 
from vulgar eyes with an abilitj' and a perseverance equally worthy of 

'Mayer, from the principles of gravitation, (Ttieoria LunsE, J7(>7,) computed the value of 
the solar parallax to be 7". 8. He remarked that the error of this determination did not 
amount to one-twentielh of the whole, whence it followed that the true value of the parallax 
could not exceed 8". 2. Laplace, by an analogous process, dotermined the parallax to be 
8''. 45. Encke, by a profound discussion of the observations of tlie transits of Venus in ITGl 
and 1769, found the value of the same element to be 8".r)77G.— Tkanslatoh. 



148 LAPLACE. 

aduiiratiou. The reader will excuse me for citiuff auotber of such ex- 
amples. 

The earth governs the movements of the moon. The earth is flattened ; 
ju other words, its figure is spheroidal. A spheroidal body does not at- 
tract like a sphere. There ought, then, to exist iu the movement, 1 had 
almost said in the countenance, of the moon a sort of impression of the 
spheroidal figure of the earth. Such was the idea as it originally oc- 
curred to Laplace. 

It still remained to ascertain (and here consisted the chief difiQculty) 
whether the effects attributable to the spheroidal figure of the earth 
were sufficiently sensible not to be confounded with the errors of obser- 
vation. It was accordingly necessary to find the general formula of per- 
turbations of this nature, in order to be able, as in the case of the solar 
parallax, to eliminate the unknown quantity. 

The ardor of Laplace, combined with his power of analytical research, 
surmounted all obstacles. By means of an investigation which de- 
manded the most minute attention^ the great geometer discovered in 
the theory of the moon's movements two well-defined perturbations de- 
pending on the spheroidal figure of the earth. The first affected the 
resolved element of the motion of our satellite, which is chiefly measured 
with the instrument known in observatories by the name of the transit 
instrument; the second, which operated iu the direction north and south, 
could only be effected by observations with a second instrument, termed 
the mural circle. These two inequalities, of very different magnitudes, 
connected with the cause which produces them, by analytical combina- 
tions of totally different kinds, have, however, both conducted to the 
same value of the ellipticity. It must be borne iu mind, however, that 
the ellipticity, thus deduced from the movements of the moon, is not 
the ellipticity corresponding to such or such a country, the ellipticity 
observed in France, in England, in Italy, in Lapland, in Xorth America, 
in India, or in the region of the Cape of Good Hope, for the earth's ma- 
terials having undergone considerable upheavings at different times, 
and in different places, the primitive regularity of its curvature has been 
sensibly disturbed by this cause. The moon — and it is this circumstance 
which renders the result of such inestimable value — ought to assign, 
and has in reality assigned, the general ellipticity of the earth ; in other 
words, it has indicated a sort of mean value of the various determina- 
tions obtahied at enormous expense, and with infinite labor, as the 
result of long voyages undertaken by astronomers of all the countries 
of Europe. 

1 shall add a few brief remarks, for which I am mainly indebted to 
the author of the M6canique Celeste. They seem to be eminently 
adapted for illustrating the profound, the unexpected, and almost par- 
adoxical character of the methods which I have just attempted to^ 
sketch. 

What are the elements which it has been found necessary to confront 



LAPLACE. • 149 

with each other in order to arrive at results expressed even to the pre- 
cision of the smallest decimals ? 

On the one hand, mathematical formulse deduced from the principle 
of universal attraction ; on the other hand, certain irregularities ob- 
served in the returns of the moon to the meridian. 

An observing geometer who, from his infancy, had never quitted his 
chamber of study, and who had never viewed the heavens except 
through a narrow aperture directed north and south, in the vertical 
l)lane of which the i»rinci[)al astronomical instruments aremadetomove — 
to whom nothing had ever been revealed respecting the bodies revolving 
above his head, except that they attract each other according to the 
Newtonian law of gravitation — would, however, be enabled to ascertain 
that his narrow abode was situated upon the surfiice of a spheroidal 
body, the equatorial axis of which surpassed the polar axis by a three 
hundred and sixth part; he would have also found, in his isolated, im 
movable ])osition, his true distance from the sun. 

I have stated at the commencement of this notice that it is to 
D'Alembert we owe the first satisfactory mathematical explanation of 
the phenomenon of the precession of the equinoxes. But our illustrious 
countryman, as well as Enler,Avhose solution appeared subsequently to 
that of D'Alembert, omitted all consideration of certain physical cir- 
cumstances, which, however, did not seem to be of a nature to be neg- 
lected without examination. Laplace has supplied this deficiency. He 
has shown that the sea, notwithstanding its fluidity, and that the at- 
mosphere, notwithstanding its currents, exercise the same influence on 
the movements of the terrestrial axis as if they formed solid masses ad- 
hering to the terrestrial spheroid. 

Do the extremities of the axis around which the earth performs an 
entire revolution once in every twenty four hours correspond always to 
the same material points of the terrestrial spheroid ? In other words, 
do the poles of rotation, which from year to year correspond to different 
stars, undergo also a displacement at the surface of the earth ? 

In the case of the afiirmative, the equator is movable as well as the 
poles : the terrestrial latitudes are variable ; no country during the lapse 
of ages will enjoy, even on an average, a constant climate; regions the 
most ditferent will, in their turn, become circumpolar. Adopt the cor.- 
trary supposition, and everything assumes the character of an admi- 
rable permanence. 

The question which I have just suggested, one of the most important 
in astronomy, cannot be solved by the aid of mere observation, on ac- 
count of the uncertainty of the early determinations of terrestrial lati- 
tude. Lai)lace has supplied this defect by analysis. The great geome- 
ter lias demonstrated ihat no circumstance depending on universal gravi- 
tation can sensibly disjAace the poles of the earth's axis relatively to 
the surface of the terrestrial spheroid. The sea, far from being an ob- 
stacle to the invariable rotation of the earth upon its axis, would, on the 



150 LAPLACE. 

coiiiiiiry, lodiico the axis to a pormanent condition iu C(»)sequence of 
tlie mobility of the waters and the resistance which their osciUations 
experience. 

The remarks which I have just made with respect to the position of 
the terrestrial axis are equally applicable to the time of the earth's ro- 
tation, which is the unit, the true standard of time. The importance of 
this element induced Laplace to exaftiine whether its numerical value 
might not be liable to vary from internal causes, such as earthquakes 
and volcanoes. It is hardly necessary for me to state that the result 
obtained was negative. 

The admirable memoir of Lagrange upon the libratiou of the moon 
seemed to have exhausted the subject. This, however, was not the 
case. 

Tlie motion of revolution of our satellite around the earth is subject 
to perturbations, technically teimed secular, which were either unknown 
to Lagrange or which he neglected. Tbese inequalities eventually phice 
the body, not to speak of entire circumferences, at angular distances of 
a semicircle, a circle and a half, &c.. from the position which it would 
otherwise occupy. If the movement of rotation did not participate in 
such perturbations, the moon in the lapse* of ages would present iu suc- 
cession all the parts of its surface to the earth. 

This event wdl not occur. The hemisphere of the moon which is 
actually invisible will remain invisible forever. Laplace, in fact, has 
shown that the attraction of the earth introduces into the rotatory mo- 
tion of the lunar s[)lieroid the secular inequalities which exist in the 
movement of revolution. 

liesearches of this nature exhibit in full relief the power of mathemat- 
ical analysis. It would have been very difiicult to have discovered by 
synthesis truths so profoundly enveloped in the complex action of a 
multitude of forces. 

We should be inexcusable if we omitted to notice the high impor- 
tance of the labors of Laplace on the improvement of the lunar tables. 
The immediate object of this improvement was, in effect, the [)romo 
tion of maritime intercourse between distant countries; and, what was 
indeed far sui)erior to all considerations of mercantile interest, th(! pres- 
ervation of the lives of mariners. 

Thanks to a sagacity without parallel, to a perseverance which knew 
no limits, to an ardor always youthful, and which communicated itself 
to able co-adjutors, La[)lace solved the celebrated problem of the longi- 
tude more comi)letely than could have been ho[)ed for in a scientilic 
poiut of view, with greater precision than the art of navigation, in its 
utmost relinement, demanded. The ship, the sport of the winds and 
tempests, has no occasion, in the present day, to be afraid of losing 
itself in the immensity of the ocean. An intelligent glance at the starry 
vault indicates to the pilot, iu every place and at every time, his dis- 
tance from the meridian of Paris. The extreme perfection of the ex- 



LAii'LACE. 151 

istiiig tables of the moou eutitles Laplace to be ranked amoug the beue- 
factors of bumaniti'.* 

Ill tbe beginuiiiy: of the year IGLl, Galileo supposed that be found iu 
tbe eclipses of Jupiter's satellites a simple aud rigorous solution of tbe 
famous problem of tbe longitude, and active negotiations were imme- 
diately commenced with tbe view of introducing tbe new metbod on 
board the numerous vessels of Spain and Holland. Tbese negotiations 
failed. From tbe discussion, it plainly appeared tbat tbe accurate ob- 
servation of tbe eclipses of tbe satellites would requiiie powerful tele- 
sco[)es ; but sucb telescopes could not be employed on board a sbip 
tossed about by tbe waves. 

Tbe metbod of Galileo seemed, at any rate, to retain all its advan- 
tages wbeu applied on land, and to promise immense improvements to 
geogra[)liy. Tbese expectations were found to be premature. Tbe 
movements of tbe satellites of Jupiter are not by any means so simple 
as tbe immortal inventor of tbe method of longitudes supposed them to 
be. It was necessary tbat three generations of astronomers and mathe- 
maticians should labor with perseverance in unfolding their most con- 
siderable perturbations. It was necessary, in fine, tbat the tables of 
those bodies should acquire all desirable aud necessary precision, tbat 
Laplace should introduce into the midst of them the torch of mathemati- 
cal analysis. 

In tbe present day, tbe nautical e«jhemerides contain, several years in 
advance, the indication of the times of the eclipses aud re-appearances 
of Jupiter's satellites. Calcubition does not yield iu precision to direct 
observation. In this group of satellites, considered as an independent 
system of bodies, Laplace found a series of perturbations analogous to 
those which tbe planets experience. Tbe rapidity of the revolutions un- 
folds, iu a "^ufticiently short s[»ace of time, changes in this system which 
require centuries for tbeir complete development iu the solar system. 

Although tbe satellites exhibit hardly an ajipreciabie diameter even 
when viewed in tbe best telescopes, our illustrious countryman was en- 
abled to determine tbeir masses. Fiually, he discovered certain simple 
relations of an extremely remarkable character between the movements 
of those bodies, which have been called tbe laws of Laplace. Posterity 
will not obliterate this desiguation ; it will acknowledge the propriety 
of inscribing iu the heavens the name of so great an astronomer beside 
that of Kepler. 

* The theoretical researches of Laplace formed the basis of Burckhardt's Luuar Tables, 
which are chiefly employed in computiLg the places of the moon for the Nauiical Almauac 
and other ephemerides. These tables were defaced by an empiric equation, suggested for 
the purpose of representing au inequality of long period which seemed to affect the mean 
longitude of the moon. No satisfactory explanation of the origin of this ii equality could' 
be discovered by any geometer, although it formed the subject of much toilsome investiga- 
tion throughout the present century, until at length M. Hanson found it to arise from a 
combination of two inequalities due to the disturbing action of Venus. The period of one 
of these inequalities is "27.3 years, and that of the other is 2o9 years. The maximum value of 
the former is 27". 4, and that of the latter is 23"."<J. — Tuanslatok. 



152 LAPLACE. 

Let us cite two or three of the laws of Laplace : 

If we add to the mean longitude of the first satellite twice that of the 
third, and subtract from the sum three times the meau longitude of the 
secoiKl, the result will be exactly equal to 180°. Would it not be very 
extraordinary if the three satellites had. been placed originally at the 
distances from Jupiter, and in the positions, with respect to each other, 
adapted for constantly and rigorously maintaining the foregoing rela- 
tion ? Lai)lace has replied to this question by showing that it is not 
necessary that this relation should have been rigorously true at the ori- 
gin. The mutual action of the satellites would necessarily have reduced 
it to its present mathematical condition, if once the distances and the 
positions satisfied the law approximately. 

This first law is equally true when we employ the synodical elements. 
It hence plainly results that the three first satellites of Jupiter can never 
be all eclipsed at the same time. Bearing this in mind, we shall have 
no difficulty in apprehending the import of a celebrated observation of 
recent times, during which certain astronomers perceived the planet for 
a short time without any of his four satellites. This would not by any 
means authorize us in supposing the satellites to be eclipsed. A satel- 
lite disappears when it is projected upon the central part of the lumi- 
nous disk of Jui)iter, and also when it passes behind the opaque body 
of the planet. 

The following is another very simple law to which the mean motions 
of the same satellites of Jupiter are subject: 

If we add to the mean motion of the first satellite twice the mean 
motion of the third, the sum is exactly equal to three times the mean 
motion of the second. * 

This numerical co-incidence, which is perfectly accurate, would be one 
of the most mysterious phenomena in the system of the universe if 

* This law is necessarily included in the law already enunciated by the autlior relative to 
the mean longitudes. The lollowingis the most usual mode of expressing these curious rela- 
tions : 1st, the mean motion of the first satellite, plus twice the mean motion of the third, 
minus three times the mean motion of the second, is rigorously equal to zero ; 2d, the mean 
longitude of the first satellite, plus twice the mean longitude of the third, minus three times 
the mean longitude of the second, is equal to )H0°. It is plain that if we only consider 
the mean longitude liere to refer to n gicen epoch, the co.mbination of the two laws will as- 
sure the existence of an analogous relation between the meau longitudes /or any ijistaiit of 
time tcliatcver, whether past or future. Laplace has shown, as the author has stated in the 
text, that if these relations had only been approximately true at the origin, the mutual 
attraction of the three satellites would have ultimately rendered them rigorous!}' so : under 
such circumstances the mean longitude of the first satellite, plus twice the mean longitude 
of the third, minus three times the mean longitude of the second, would CLUtinually oscil- 
late about J8(i° as a mean value. The three satellites would participate in this libratory 
movement, the extent of oscillation depending in each case on the mass of the satellite and 
its distance from the primary, but the period of libration is the same for all the satellites, 
amounting to 'i,'27() days IH hours, or rather more than six years. Observations of the 
eclipses of the satellites have not afi'orded any indications of the actual existence of such a 
libratory motion, so that the relations between the mean motions and mean longitudes may 
^be presumed to be always rigorously true. — TuANSL.VToit. 



LAPLACE. 153 

Laplace had not proved that the law need only have been approximate 
at the origin, and that the mutual action of the satellites has sufficed 
to render it rigorous. 

The illustrious geometer who always pursued his researches to their 
most remote ramifications arrived at the following result: The action 
of Jupiter regulates the movements of rotation of the satellites, so 
that, without taking into account the secular perturbations, the time of 
rotation of the first satellite, plus twice the time of rotation of the third, 
forms a sum which is constantly equal to three times the time of rota- 
tion of the second. Influenced by a deference, a modesty, a timidity, 
without any plausible motive, our artists in the last century surren- 
dered to the English the exclusive privilege of constructing instruments 
of astronomy. Thus, let us frankly acknowledge the fact, at the time 
when Herschel was prosecuting his beautiful observations on the other 
side of the Channel, there existed in France no instruments adapted 
for developing them ; we had not even the means of verifying them. 
Fortunately for the scientific honor of our country, mathematical analy- 
sis is also a powerful instrument. Laplace gave ample proof of this 
on a memorable occasion when, from the retirement of his chamber, he 
predicted, he minutely announced, what the excellent astronomer of 
Windsor would see with the largest telescopes which were ever con- 
structed by the hand of man. 

When Galileo, in the beginning of the year IGIO, directed toward 
Saturn a telescope of very low i)ower, which he had just executed with 
his own hands, he perceived that the planet was not an ordinary globe, 
without, however, being able to ascertain its real form. The expression 
" tri-corporate,'" by which the illustrious Florentine designated the appear- 
ance of the planet, implied even a totally erroneous idea of its struc- 
ture. Our countryman Roberval entertained much sounder views on 
the subject, but from not having instituted a detailed comparison be- 
tween his hypothesis and the results of observation, he abandoned to 
Huyghens the honor of being regarded as the author of the true theory 
of the phenomena presented by the wonderful planet. Every person 
knows in the present day that Saturn consists of a globe about 000 
times greater than the earth, and a ring. Tliis ring does not touch 
the ball of the planet, being everywhere removed from it at a distance 
of 20,000 (English) miles. Observation indicates tiie breadth of the 
ring to be 54,000 miles. The thickness certainly does not exceed 250 
miles. With the exception of a black streak, which divides the ring- 
throughout its whole contour into two parts of unequal breadth and 
of different brightness, this strange, colossal bridge without piles had 
never ottered to the most experienced or skillful observer either spot 
or protuberance adapted for deciding whether it was immovable or 
endued with a movement of rotation. 

Laplace considered it to be very improbable, if the ring was immov- 
able, that its constituent parts should be capable of resisting by their 



154 LAPLACE. 

mere cohesion tlie continual attraction of the planet. A movement of 
rotation occurred to bis mind as constituting the principle of stability, 
and he hence deduced the necessary velocity. The velocity thus iound 
was exactly equal to that which Herschel subsequently deduced Irom 
a course of extremely delicate observations. 

Tiietwo i)arts of the ring being placed at different distances from the 
planet, could not tail to experience, from the action of the sun, different 
movements of rotation. It would hence seem that the planes of both 
rings ought to be geiierally inclined toward each other, whereas they 
api)ear from observation always to coincide. It was necessary, then, 
that some physical cause should exist wliich would be capable of neutral- 
izing tlie action of the sun. In u memoir i)ublished in February, 1789, 
La[)lace Ibund that this cause must reside in the ellipticity of Saturn, 
pioduced by a rapid movement of rotation of the planet, a movement 
the existence of which Herschel announced in November, 1789. 

The leader cannot fail to remark how, on certain occasions, the eyes 
of the mind can supply the want of the most powerful telescopes, and 
lead to astrononiical discoveries of the highest imi)ortance. Let us de- 
scend from the heavens u[)on the earth. The discoveries of Laplace will 
appear not less inqiortant, not less worthy of his genius. 

The phenomena of the tides, which an ancient philosopher designated 
in despair the tomb of human curiosity, were connected by Laplace 
with an analytical theory in which the physical conditions of the ques- 
tion figure for the tirst time. Accordingly calculators, to the immense 
advantage of the navigation of our maritime coasts, venture in the 
present day to predict several years in advance the details of the time 
and height of the full tides without more anxiety resi)ecting the result 
than if the questiou related to the phases of an eclipse. 

There exists between the different phenomena of the ebb and flow of 
the tides and the attractive forces which the suu and moon exercise 
upon the fluid sheet which covers three-fourths of the globe, an intimate 
and neces^sary connection, from which Laplace, by the aid of a series of 
twenty years of observations, executed at Brest, deduced the value of 
the mass of our satellite. Science knows in the present day that seventy- 
five moons would be necessary to form a weight equivalent to that of 
the terrestrial globe, and it is indebted for this result to an attentive 
and minute study of the oscillations of the ocean. We know only one 
means of enhancing the admiration which every thoughtful mind will 
entertain for theories capable of leading to such conclusions. An his- 
torical statement, will supply it. In the year 1031, the illustrious Gali- 
leo, as appears from his fJiuloyues, was so far from perceiving the mathe- 
matical relations from which Laplace deduced results so beautiful, so 
unequivocal, and so useful, that he taxed with frivolousness the vague 
idea which Ke[)ler entertained of attributing to the moon's attraction a 
certain share in the production of the diurnal and periodical movements 
of the waters of the ocean. 



LAPLACE. 155 

Laplace did not confine himself to extending so considerably, and im- 
proving so essentially, the matheauitical theory of the tides ; he consid- 
ered the phenomenon from an entirely new point of view ; it was he who 
first treated of the stability of the ocean. Systems of bodies, whether 
solid or fluid, are subject to two kinds of equilibrium, which we must 
carefully distinguish from each other. In the case of stable equilibrium, 
the systeuij when slightly disturbed, tends always to return to its origi- 
nal condition. On the other hand, when the system is in unstable e(iuilib- 
rium, a very iusigniticaut derangement might occasion an enormous 
dislocation in the relative i)ositions of its constituent parts. 

If the equlibrium of waves is of the latter kind, the waves engendered 
by the action of winds, by earthquakes, and by sudden movements 
from the bottom of the ocean, have perhaps risen in i)ast times, and 
may rise in the luture, to the height of the highest mountains. The 
geologist will have the satisfaction of deducing i'rom these prodigious 
oscillations a rational explanation of a great multitude of phenomena, 
but the public will thereby be exi)osed to new and terrible catastro- 
phes. 

Mankind may rest assured ; Lapkice has proved, that the equilibrium 
of the ocean is stable, but ujjon the express condition (which, however, 
has been amply verified by established facts) that the mean density of 
the fluid mass is less than the mean density of the earth. Everything 
else remaining the same, let us substitute an ocean of mercury for the 
actual ocean, and the stability will disappear, and the flui<l will fre- 
quently surpass its boundaries, to ravage continents even to the height 
of the snowy regions which lose themselves in the clouds. 

Does not the reader remark how each of the analytical investigations 
of Laplace serves to disclose the harmony and duration of the universe 
and of our globe I 

Jt was imi)ossible that the great geometer, who had succeeded so 
well in the study of the tides of the ocean, should not have occupied 
his attention with the tides of the atmosphere ; that he should not have 
submitted to the delicate and definitive tests of a rigorous calculus the 
generally-ditlused opinions respecting the influence of the moon upon the 
height of the barometer and other meteorological phendmena. 

Laplace, in effect, has devoted a chapter of his splendid work to an 
examination of the oscillations which the attractive force of the moou 
is capable ot producing in our atmosphere. It results from these re- 
searches that, at Paris, the lunar tide produces no sensible effect upou 
the barometer. The height of the tide, obtained by the discus.sion of a 
long series of observations, has not exceeded two hundredths of a n)illi- 
meter, a quantity which, in the present state of meteorological science, 
is less than the probable error of observation. 

The calculation to which I have just alluded may be cited in support 
of considerations to which I had recourse when I wished to establish, 
that if the moou alters more or less the height of the barometer, accord- 
ing to its different phases, the effect is not attributable to attraction. 



156 LAPLACE. 

No person was more sagacious than Laplace in discovering intimate 
relations between phenomena apparently' very dissimilar; uo person 
sliovvcd liiinself more skillful in deducing important conclusions from 
those unexpected aliinities. 

Toward the close of liis days, for example, he overthrew with a stroke 
of the i)en, by the aid of (certain observations of the moon, the cosmo- 
gonic theories of Butlbn and Bailly, wiiich were so long in favor. Ac- 
cording to these theories, the earth was inevitably advancing to a state 
of congelation which was close at hand. Laplace, who never contented 
himself with a vague statement, sought to determine in numbers the 
rapid cooling of our globe which Buffon had so eloqucntlj' but so gra- 
tuitously announced. Nothing could be nsore simple, better connected, 
or niort^ demonstrative than the chain of deductions of the celebrated 
geometer. 

A body diminishes in volume when it cools. According to the most 
elementary principles of mechanics, a rotating body which contracts in 
dimensions ought inevitably to turn upon its axis with greater and 
greater rapidity. The length of the day lias been determined in all 
ages by the time of the earth's rotation ; if the earth is cooling, the 
length of the day must be continually shortening. Now, there exists a 
means of ascertaining whether the length of the day has undergone any 
variation ; this consists in examining, for each century, the arc of the 
celestial sphere described by the moon during tlie interval of time which 
the astronomers of the existing epoch called a day ; in other words, the 
time required by the earth to effect a complete rotation on its axis, the 
velocity of the moon being, in fact, independent of the time of the earth's 
rotation. 

Let US DOW, after the example of Laplace, take from the standard tables 
the least considerable values, if you choose, of the expansions or con- 
tractions wliich solid bodies experience from changes of temperature; 
search then the annals of Grecian, Arabian, and modern astronomy for 
the purpose of finding in them the angular velocity of the moon, and 
the great geometer will prove, by incontrovertible evidence, founded 
upon these data, that during a period of 2,000 years the mean tempera- 
ture of tlie earth has not varied to the extent of the hundredth i)art of 
a degree of the centigrade thermometer. No eloquent declamation is 
capable of resisting such a juocess of reasoning, or withstaiuling the 
force of such numbers. The mathematics have been in all ages the im- 
placable adversaries of scientitic romances. 

The <all of bodies, if it was not a phenomenon of perpetual occurrence, 
would Justly excite in the highest degree the astonishment of mankind. 
What, in effect, is more extraordinary than to see an inert mass — that is 
to sa.v, a mass deprived of will, a mass which ought not to have any 
propensity to advance in one direction more than in another, precipitate 
itself toward the earth as soon as it ceased to be supported ? 

Nature engenders the gravity of bodies by a process so recondite, so 



LAPLACE. 1,57 

completely beyond the reach of our senses and the ordinary resources 
of buman intelligence, that the philosophers of antiquity, who supposed 
that they could explain everything ineclianically acco^rding to the simple 
evolutions of atoms, excepted gravity from their speculations. 

Descartes attempted what Leucippus, Democritus, Eijicurus, and their 
followers thought to be impossible. He made the fall of terrestrial 
bodies depend upon the action of a vortex of very subtle matter circu- 
lating around the earth. The real improvements which the illustrious 
Huyghens applied to the ingenious conception of our countryman were 
far, however, from imparting to it clearness and precision, those charac- 
teristic attributes of truth. 

Those persons form a very imperfect estimate of the meaning of one 
of the greatest questions which have occupied the attention of modern 
inquirers, who regard I^ewton as having issued victorious from a strug- 
gle in which his two immortal predecessors had failed. I^ewton did not 
discover the cause of gravity any more thau Galileo did. Two bodies 
placed in juxtaposition approach each other. Newton does not inquire 
into the nature of the force which produces this eflect. The force ex- 
ists. He designates it by the term attraction ; but, at the same time, 
he warns the reader that the term, as thus used by him, does not imply 
any detinite idea of the physical process by which gravity is brought 
into existence and operates. 

The force of attraction being once admitted as a fact, l^ewton studies 
it in all terrestrial phenomena, ia the revolutions of the moon, the plan- 
ets, satellites, and comets ; and, as we have already stated, he deduced 
from this incomparable study the simple, universal, mathematical char- 
acteristics of the forces which i^reside over the movements of all the 
bodies of which our solar system is composed. 

The applause of the scientific world did not prevent the immortal au- 
thor of the Principia from hearing some persons refer the principle of 
gravitation to the class of occult qualities. This circumstance induced 
Newton and his most devoted followers to abandon the reserve which 
they had hitherto considered it their duty to maintain. Those persons 
were then charged with ignorance who regarded attraction as an essen- 
tial property of matter, as the mysterious indication of a sort of charm ; 
who supposed that two bodies may act upon each other without the in- 
tervention of a third body. This force was then either the result of the 
tendency of an ethereal fluid to move from the free regions of space, 
where its density is a maximum, toward the planetary bodies, around 
which there exists a greater degree of rarefaction, or the consequence 
of the impulsive force of some fluid medium. 

Newton never expressed a definitive opinion respecting the origin of 
the impulse which occasioned the attractive force of matter — at least iu 
our solar system. But we have strong reasons for supposing, in the 
present day, that, in using the word imjmlse the great geometer was 
thinking of the systematic ideas of Variguon and Fatio de Duillier, sub- 



J 58 LAPLACE. 

sequently reinvented and perfected by Lesage. These ideas, in effect, 
had been communicated to him before they were published to the world. 

Accoiding to Lesage, there are iu the regions of space bodies moving 
in every possible direction, and with excessive rapidity. The author 
ap])licd to these the name of ultramundane corpuscules. Their totality 
constituted the gravitative fluid, if indeed the designation of a fluid be 
applicable to an assemblage of particles having no mutual connection. 

A single body placed in the midst of such an ocean of movable par- 
ticles would remain at rest although it were impelled equally iu every 
direction. On the other hand, two bodies ought to advance toward each 
other, since they would serve the purpose of mutual screens, since the 
surfaces facing each other would no longer be hit in tiie direction of their 
line of junction by the ultra-mundane particles, since there would then 
exist currents, the effect of which would no longer be neutralized by 
opposite currents. It will be easily seen, besides, that two bodies 
])lunged into the gravitative fluid would tend to approach each other 
with an intensity which woukl vary in the inverse proportiou of the 
square of the distance. 

If attraction is the result of the impulse of a fluid, its action ought 
to employ a finite time in traversing the immense spaces which separate 
the celestial bodies. If the sun, then, were suddenly extinguished, the 
earth, alter the catastrophe, would, mathematically speaking, still con- 
tinue for some time to experience its attractive influence. The contrary 
would happen on the occasion of the sudden birth of a planet : a cer- 
tain time would elapse before the attractive force of th« uew body would 
make itself felt on the earth. 

Several geometers of the last century were of opinion that the force 
of attraction is not transmitted instantaneously from one body to 
another; they even assigned to it a comparatively inconsiderable veloc- 
ity of propagation. Daniel Bernoulli, for example, iu attempting to 
explain how the spring-tide arrives upon our coasts a day and a half 
after the syzygies, that is to say, a day and a half after the epochs when 
the sun and moon are most favorably situated for the production of this 
magnificent phenomenon, assumed that the disturbing force required all 
this time (a day and a half) for its propagation from the moon to the 
ocean. So feeble a velocity was inconsistent with the mechanical ex- 
planaVion of attraction, of which we have just spoken. The exi)lanation, 
iQ effect, necessarily supposes that the proper motions of the celestial 
bodies are insensible, compared with the motion of the gravitative fluid. 
After having discovered that the diminution of the eccentricity of the 
terrestrial orl)it is the real cause of the observed acceleration of the 
motion of the moon, Laplace, on his part, endeavored to ascertain 
whether this mysterious acceleration did not depend on the gradual 
propagation of attraction. 

The result of calculation was at first favorable to the plausibility of 
the hypothesis. It showed that the gradual propagation of the attract- 



LAPLACE. 159 

ive force would introdnce into the movement of onr satellite a pertur- 
bation proportional to the square of the time which elapsed from the 
coinmenct'meut of any epoch ; that in order to represent numerically the 
results of astronomical observations, it would not be necessary to assign 
a feeble velocity to attraction ; that a propagation eight millions of 
times more rapid than that of light would satisfy all the phenomena. 

Although the true cause of the acceleration of the moon is now well 
known, the ingenious calculation of which I have just spoken does not 
the less oji that account maintain its place in science. In a mathe- 
matical point of view, the perturbation depending on the gradual propa. 
gatiou of the attractive force which this calculation indicates has a cer- 
tain existence. The connection between the velocity of perturbation 
and the resulting inequality is such that one of the two quantities leads 
to a knowledge of the numerical value of the other. Now, upon assign- 
ing to the inequality the greatest value which is consistent with the 
observations after they have been corrected for the effect due to the 
variation of the eccentricity of the terrestrial orbit, we find the velocity 
of the attractive force to be fifty millions of times the velocity of light. 

If it be borne in mind that this number is an inferior limit, and that 
the velocity of the rays of light amounts to 77,000 leagues (192,000 
English miles) per second, the philosophers who i)rofess to explain the 
force of attraction by the impulsive energy of a fluid, will see what pro- 
digious velocities they must satisfy. 

The reader cannot fail again to remark the sagacity with which La- 
place singled out the phenomena which were best adapted for throwing 
light upon the most obscure points of celestial physics ; nor the success 
with which he explored their various parts, and deduced from tliem 
numerical conclusions in presence of which the mind remains con- 
loundcd. 

The author of the Mecanique Celeste supposed, like Newton, that 
light consists of material molecules of excessive tenuity and endued in 
empty space with a velocity of 77,000 leagues in a second. However, 
it is right to warn those wlio would be inclined to avail themselves of 
this imposing authority that the principal argument of Laplace in favor 
of the system of emission consisted in the advantage which it afforded 
of snbmitting every question to a process of simple and rigorous calcu- 
lation ; whereas, on the other hand, tbe theory of undulations has always 
offered immense difficulties to analysts. It was natural that a geometer 
who had so elegantly connected the laws of simple refraction which light 
undergoes in its passage through the atmosphere, and the laws of double 
refraction which it is subject to in the course of its passage through 
certain crystals, with the action of attractive and repulsive forces, should 
not have abandoned this route, before he recognized the impossibility of 
arriving by the same path at plausible explanations of the phenoaieua 
of diffraction and polarization. In other respects, the care which Laplace 
always employed in pursuing his researches, as far as possible, to their 



160 LAPLACE. 

uumerical results will enable those who are disposed to iustitnte a com- 
plete comparison between the two rival theories of light to derive from 
the Mccanique Celeste the materials of several interesting relations. 

Is light an emanation from the sun ? Does this body launch out inces- 
santly in every direction a part of its own substance? Is it gradually 
diminishing in volume and mass! The attraction exercised by the sun 
ui)()n the earth will, in that case, gradually become less and less consid- 
erable. The radius of the terrestrial orbit, on the other hand, cannot 
fail to increase, and a corresponding effect will be produced on the length 
of the year. 

This is the conclusion Avhich suggests itself to every person upon a 
first ghmce at the subject. By applying analysis to the question, and 
then proceeding to numerical computations, founded upon the most trust- 
worthy results of observation relative to the length of the year in dif- 
ferent ages, Laplace has proved that an incessant emission of light, go- 
ing on for a period of two thousand years, has not diminished the mass 
of the sun by the two-millionth part of its original value. 

Our illustrious countryman never proposed tohimself anything vague 
or indefinite. His constant object w?.s the explanation of the great 
phenomena of nature, according to the inflexible principles of mathemat- 
ical analysis. No philosopher, no mathematician, could have main- 
tained himself more cautiously on his guard against a propensity to 
hasty speculation. No i)erson dreaded more the scientific errors which 
the imagination gives birth to, when it ceases to remain within the limits 
of facts, of calculation, and of analogy. Once, and once only, did 
Laplace launch forward, like Keiiler, like Descartes, like Leibnitz, like 
Buff on, into the region of conjectures. His conception was not then less 
than a cosmogony. 

All the planets revolve around the sun, from west to east, and in planes 
which include angles of inconsiderable magnitude. The satellites revolve 
around their respective primaries in the same direction as that in which 
the planets revolve around the sun, that is to say, from west to east. 

The planets and satellites which have been found to have a rotatory 
motion, turn also upon their axe^ from west to east. Finally, the rota- 
tion of the sun is also directe*! from west to east. We have here, then, 
an assemblage of forty-three movements, all operating in the same di- 
rection. By the calculus of probabilities, the odds are four thousand 
millions to one that this co-incidence in the direction of so many move- 
ments is not the effect of accident. 

It was Buffbn, I think, who first attempted to explain this singular 
feature of our solar system. Having wished in the explanation of phe- 
nomena to avoid all recourse to causes which were not warranted by na- 
ture, the celebrated academician investigated a physical origin of the 
system in what was common to the movements of so many bodies differ- 
ing in magnitude, in form, and in distance from the principal center of 
attraction. lie imagined that he discovered such an origin by making 



LAPLACE. IGl 

tbis triple supposition : A comet fell obliquely upon the sun ; it pushed 
before it a torrent of fluid mutter ; this substance transported to a 
greater or less distance from the sun, according to its mass, formed by 
concentration all the known planets. 

The bold hypothesis of Buffon is liable to unsurmountable difiBculties. 
I proceed to indicate, in a few words, the cosmogonic system which 
Laplace substituted for that of the illustrious auihor of the Histoire 
Natnrelle. 

According to Laplace, the sun was at a remote epoch the central 
nucleus of an immense nebula, which possessed a very high temperature, 
and extended far beyond the region in which Uranus revolves in the 
present day. No planet was then in existence. 

The solar nebula was endued with a general movement of revolution 
directed from west to east. At it cooled it could not fail to experience 
a gradual condensation, and, in consequence, to rotate with greater and 
greater rapidity. If the nebulous matter extended originally in the 
plane of the equator as far as the limit at which the centrifugal force 
exactly counterbalanced the attraction of the nucleus, the molecules 
situate at this limit ought, during the process of condensation, to sepa- 
rate from the rest of the atmospheric matter, and form an equatorial 
zone, a ring revolving separately and with its primitive velocity. 

We may conceive that analogous separations were effected in the 
higher strata of the nebula at different epochs, that is to say, at differ- 
ent distances from the nucleus, and that they give rise to a succession 
of distinct rings, included almost in the sameiilane and endued with dif- 
ferent velocities. 

This being once admitted, it is easy to see that the indefinite stability 
of the rings would have required a regularity of structure throughout 
their whole contour which is very improbable. Each of them accord- 
ingly broke in its turn into several masses, which were plainly endued 
with a movement of rotation, coinciding in direction with the common 
movement of revolution, and which in consequence of their fluidity as- 
sumed spheroidal forms. 

In order, then, that one of those spheroids might absorb all the others 
belonging to the same ring, it will be sufficient to assign to it a mass 
greater than that of any other spheroid. 

Each of the planets, while in the vaporous condition to which we have 
just alluded, would manifestly have a central nucleus gradually increas- 
ing in magnitude and mass, and an atmosphere offering, at its succes- 
sive limits, phenomena entirely similar to those which the solar atmos- 
phere, properly so called, had exhibited. We here witness ttie birth of 
satellites, and that of the ring of Saturn. 

The system of which I have just given an imperfect sketch has for 

its object to show how a nebula endued with a general movement of 

I rotation must eventually transform itself into a very luminous central 

nucleus (a sun) and into a series of distinct spheroidal planets, situate 

11 s 



162 LAPLACE. 

at considerable distances from each other, revolving all around the cen- 
tral sun iu the direction of the original movement of the nebula; how 
these planets ought also to Lave movements of ro<^ation operating in 
similar directions; how, finally, the satellites, when any of such are 
formed, cannot fail to revolve ui^on their axes and around their respect- 
ive primaries, iu the direction of rotation of the planets and of their 
movement of revolution around the sun. 

We have just found, conformably to the principles of mechanics, the 
forces with which the particles of the nebula were originally endued, in 
the movements of rotation and revolution of the com^mct and distinct 
masses which these particles have brought into existence by their con- 
densation. But we have thereby achieved only a single step. The 
primitive movement of rotation of the nebula is not connected with the 
simple attraction of the particles. This movement seems to imply the 
action of a primordial imi)ulsive force. 

Laplace is far from adopting, iu this respect, the almost universal 
opinion of philosophers and mathematicians. He does not suppose that 
the mutual attractions of originally immovable bodies must ultimately 
reduce all the bodies to a state of rest around their common center of 
gravity. He maintains, on the contrary, that three bodies, in a state of 
rest, two of which have a much greater mass than the third, would con- 
centrate into a single mass only in certain exceptional cases. In gen- 
eral, the two most considerable bodies would unite together, while the 
third would revolve around their common center of gravity. Attraction 
would thus become the cause of a sort of movement which would seem 
to be explicable solely by an impulsive force. 

It might be supposed, indeed, that iu explaining this part of his sys- 
tem Lajilace had before his eyes the words which Kousseau has placed 
in the mouth of the Yicar of Savoy, and that he wished to refute them. 
" Xewton has discovered the law of attraction," says the author of 
Emilc; " but attraction alone would soon reduce the universe to an im- 
movable mass. With this law we must combine a projectile force in 
order to make the celestial bodies describe curve-lines. Let Descartes 
reveal to us the physical law which causes his vortices to revolve ; and 
let Newton show us the hand which launched the planets along the 
tangents of their orbits." 

According to the cosmogonic ideas of Laplace, comets did not origi- 
nally form part of the solar system. They are not formed at the expense 
of the matter of the immense solar nebula. We must consider them as 
small wandering nebula, which the attractive force of the sun has 
caused to deviate from their original route. Such of those comets as 
penetrated into the great nebula at the epoch of condensation and of 
the formation of planets fell into the sun, describing spiral curves, and 
must by their action have caused the planetary' orbits to deviate more 
9r less from the plane of the solar equator, with which they would 
otherwise have exactly coincided. 



, LAPLACE. 163 

With respect to the zodiacal light, that rock against which so mauy 
reveries have beeu wrecked, it cousists of the most volatile parts of the 
primitive nebula. These molecules, not having united with the equa- 
torial zones, successively abandoned in the plane of the solar equator, 
continue to revolve at their original distances, and with their original 
velocities. The circumstance of this extremely rare substance being 
included wholly within the earth's orbit, and even within that of Venus, 
seemed irreconcilable with the principles of mechanics; but this diffi- 
culty occurred only Avhen the zodiacal substance being conceived to be 
in a state of direct and intimate dependence on the solar i^hotosphere, 
l)roperly iso called, an angular movement of rotation was imiiressed on 
it equal to that of the photosphere, a movement in virtue of which it 
effected an entire revolution in twenty-five days and a half. Laplace 
presented his conjectures on the formation of the solar system with the 
diffidence inspired by a result which was not founded upon calculation 
and observation.* 

Perhaps it is to be regretted that they did not receive a more complete 
development, especially in so far as it concerns the division of the mat- 
ter into distinct rings; perhaps it would have been desirable if the illus- 
trious author had expressed himself more fully respecting the primitive 
physical condition, the molecular condition of the nebula at the expense 
of which the sun, planets, and satellites of our system were formed. It 
is perhaps especially to be regretted that Laplace should have only 
briefly alluded to what he considered the obvious possibility of move- 
ments of revolution having their origin in the action of simple attractive 
forces, and to other questions of a similar nature. 

Notwithstanding these defects, the ideas of the author of the Meca- 
nique Celeste are still the only speculations of the kind which, by their 
magnitude, their coherence, and their mathematical character, may be 
justly considered as forming a physical cosmogony; those alone which 
in the present day derive a powerful support from the results of the re- 
cent researches of astronomers on the nebulte of every form and magni- 
tude which are scattered throughout the celestial vault. 

In this analysis, we have deemed it right to concentrate all our atten- 
tion upon the Mecanique Celeste. The Sysfeme du Monde and the 
Theorie Analytique des Prohahilitcs would also require detailed notices. 

The Exposition du Isysteme du Monde is the Mecanique Celeste divested 
of the great apparatus of analytical formula which ought to be atten- 
tively perused by every astronomer who, to use an expression of Plato, 
is desirous of knowing the numbers which govern the physical universe. 
It is in the Exposition du Systeme du Monde that persons unacquainted 
with mathematical studies will obtain an exact and competent knowl- 
edge of the methods to which physical astronomy is indebted for its as- 
tonishing progress. This work, written with a noble simplicity of style, 

* Laplace has explaiued this theory in his Exposition du Systeme du Monde, (liv. 4, uote 
7.)— Translator, 



164 LAPLACE. 

an exquisite propriety of expression, and a scrupulous accuracy, is tormi- 
natetl by a sketch of the history of astronomy, universally ranked in the 
present day among the finest monuments of the French language. 

A regret has been often expressed that Caesar, in his immortal Com- 
mcntdticSj should have confined himself to a narration of his own (!am- 
paigns; the astronomical commentaries of Laplace ascend to the origin 
of communities. The labors undertaken in all ages for the purpose of 
extracting new truths from the heavens are there justly, clearly, and 
profoundly analyzed ; it is genius presiding as the impartial judge of 
genius. Laplace has always remained at the height of his great mis- 
sion ; his work will be read with respect so long as the torch of science 
shall continue to throw any light. 

The calculus of probabilities, when confined within just limits, ought 
to interest, in an equal degree, the mathematician, the experimentalist, 
and the statesman. From the time when Pascal and Fermat established 
its first principles, it has rendered, and continues daily to render, services 
of the most eminent kind. It is the calculus of probabilities, which, 
after having suggested the best arrangements of the tables of popula- 
tion and mortality, teaches us to deduce from those numbers, in general 
so erroneously interpreted, conclusions of a precise and useful character ; 
it is the calculus of probabilities which alone can regulate justly the 
premiums to be paid for assurances; the reserve funds for the disburse- 
ment ot pensions, annuities, discounts, &c. It is under its influence that 
lotteries and other shameful snares cunningly laid for avarice and igno- 
rance have definitively disappeared. Liplacehas treated these questions, 
and otliers of a much more complicated nature, with his accustomed 
superiority. In short, the Theorie Analytique des Probabilites is worthy 
of the author of the Mecanique Celeste. 

A philosopher, whose name is associated with immortal discoveries, 
said to his audience, who had allowed themselves to be influenced by 
ancient and consecrated authorities, " Bear in mind, gentlemen, that in 
questions of science the authority of a thousand is not worth the humble 
reasoning of a single individual." Two centuries have passed over their 
words of Galileo, without depreciating their value or obliterating these 
truthful character. Thus, instead of displaying a long list of illustrious 
admirers of the three beautiful works of Laplace, we have preferred 
glancing briefly at some of the sublime truths which geometry has there 
deposited. Let vis not, however, apply this principle in its utmost rigor, 
and since chance has put into our hands some unpublished letters of one 
of those men oi' genius, whom nature has endowed with the rare faculty 
of seizing at a glance the salient points of an object, we may be permitted 
to extract from them two or three brief and characteristic appreciations 
of the Mecanique Celeste and the Traltedes Probabilites. 

On the 27th Vendemiaire, in the year X, General Bonaparte, after 
having received a volume of the Mecanique Celeste, wrote to Laplace 
in the following terms: "The first six months which I shall have at my 



LAPLACE. 165 

disposal will be employed in readiug your beautiful work.'' It would 
appear that the words, •' the first six months,''^ deprive the i)hrase of the 
character of a common-place expression of thanks, and convey a just 
appreciation of the importance and difficulty of the subject-matter. 

On the 5th Frimaire, in the year XI, the reading of some chapters of 
the volume which Laplace had dedicated to him was to the general " a 
new occasion for regretting that the force of circumstances had directed 
him into a career which removed him from the pursuit of science." 

" At all events," added he, " I have a strong desire that future gen- 
erations, upon reading the Mecaniqiie Celeste, shall not forget the es- 
teem and friendship which I have entertained toward its author." 

On tho 17th Prairial, in the year XIII, the general, uow become Em- 
peror, wrote from Milan : " The Mecanique Celeste appears tO me des- 
tined to shed new luster on the age in which we live." 

Finally, on the 12th of August, 1812, Xapoleon, who had jutt received 
the Traite du Calcul des Probabilites wrote from Witepask the letter 
which we transcribe textually : 

"There w'as a time when I would have read with interest your Traite 
du Calcul des Prohahilites. For the present, I must confine myself to 
expressing to you the satisfaction which I experience every time that I 
see you give to the world new works which serve to improve and ex- 
tend the most important of the sciences and contribute to the glory 
of the nation. The advancement and the improvement of mathemati- 
ical science are connected with the prosperity of the state." 

I have uow arrived at the conclusion of the task which I had im- 
posed upon myself. I shall be pardoned for having given so detailed 
an exposition of the principal discoveries for which philosophy, astron- 
omj', and navigation are indebted to our geometers. 

It has apxjeared to me that in thus tracing the glorious past, I have 
shown our contemporaries the full extent of their duty towards the 
country. In fact, it is for nations especially to bear in remembrance 
the ancient adage, noblesse oblige. 

Appendix A. 

The following is a brief notice of some other interesting results of the 
i-esearches of Laplace which have not been mentioned in the text : 

Method for determining the orbits of comets. — Since comets are gen- 
erally visible only during a few days or weeks at the utmost, the 
determination of their orbits is attended with peculiar difficulties. 
The method devised by Newton for effecting this object was in every 
respect worthy of his genius. Its practical value was illustrated by the 
brilliant researches of Halley on cometary orbits. It necessitated, how- 
ever, a long train of tedious calculations, and, in consequence, was not 
much used, astronomers generally preferring to attain the same end by 
a tentative process. In the year 1780, Laplace communicated to the 



166 LAPLACE. 

Aciulemy of Sciences an analytical method for determining the elements 
of a comet's orbit. This method has been extensively employed in 
France. Indeed, previously to the appearance of Olbers's method, about 
the close of the last century, it furnished the easiest -md most expedi- 
tions process hitherto devised for calculating the parabolic elements of 
a comet's orbit. 

Invariable plane of the solar system. — In consequence of the mutual 
perturbations of the different bodies of the planetary system, the planes 
of the orbits in which they revolve are perpetually varying in position. 
It becomes, therefore, desirable to ascertain some fixed plane to which 
the movements of the planets in all ages may be referred, so that the 
observations of one epoch might be rendered readily comparable with 
those of another. This object was accomplished by Laplace, who dis- 
covered that notwithstanding the perpetual fluctuations of the planetary 
orbits, there exists a fixed plane, to which the positions of the various 
bodies may at any instant be easily referred. This plane passes through 
the center of gravity of the solar system, and its position is snch that 
if the movements of the planets be projected upon it, and if the mass of 
each planet be multiplied by the area which it describes in a given time, 
the sum of such products will be a maximum. The position of the plane 
for the year 1750 has been calculated by referring it to the ecliptic of 
that year. In this way it has been found that the inclination of the 
plane is 1° 35' 31", and that the longitude of the ascending node is 102^ 
57' 30". The position of the plane when calculated for the year 1950, 
with respect to the ecliptic of 1750, gives 1° 35' 31" for the inclination, 
and 102^ 57' 15" for the longitude of the ascending node. It will be 
seen that a very satisfactory- accordance exists between the elements of 
the position of the invariable plane for the two epochs. 

Diminution of the ohliqnity of the ecliptic. — The astronomers of the 
eigliteentli century had found, by a comparison of ancient with modern 
observations, that the obliquity of the ecliptic is slowly diminishing from 
century to century. The researches of geometers on the tbeory of gravi- 
tation had shown that an effect of this kind must be produced by the 
disturbing action of the planets on the earth. Laplace determined the 
sccalar displacement of the plane of the earth's orbit due to each of the 
planets, and in this way ascertained the whole effect of perturbation upon 
the obliquity of tiie ecliptic. A comparison which he instituted between 
the results of his formula and an ancient observation recorded in the 
Chinese Annals exhibited a most satisfactory accordance. The obser- 
vation in question indicated the obliquity of the ecliptic for the year 1100 
before the Christian era to be 23° 54' 2"-5. According to the principles 
of the theory of gravitation, the obliquity for the same epoch would be 
230 51' 30". 

Limits of the obliquity of the ecliptic modified by the action of the sun 
and moon upon the terrestrial spheroid. — The ecliptic will not continue 
indefinitely to approach the equator. After attaining a certain limit, it 



LAPLACE. 167 

Will then vary in the opposite direction, and the obliquity will continually 
increase in like manner as it previously diminished. Finally, the in. 
clination of the equator and the ecliptic will attain a certain maximum 
value, and then the obliquity will again diminish. Thus the angle con- 
tained between the two planes will perpetually oscillate within certain 
limits. The extent of variation is inconsiderable. Laplace found that, 
in consequence of the spheroidal figure of the earth, it is even less than 
it would otherwise have been. This will be readily understood, when 
we state that the disturbing action of the sun and moon upon the ter- 
restrial spheroid produces an oscillation of the earth's axis which occa- 
sions a periodic variation of the obliquity of the ecliptic. Now, as the 
plane of the ecliptic approaches the equator, the mean disturbing action 
of the sun and moon upon the redundant matter accumulated around 
the latter will undergo a corresponding variation, and hence will arise 
an inconceivably slow movement of the plane of the equator, which will 
necessarily affect the obliquity of the ecliptic. Laplace found that if it 
were not for this cause, the obliquity of the ecliptic would oscillate to 
the extent of 49 53' 33" on each side of a mean value, but that when the 
movements of both planes are taken into acccunt, the extent of oscilla- 
tion is reduced to 1° 33' 45". 

Variation of the length of the tropical year. — The disturbing action 
of the sun and moon upon the terrestrial spheroid occasions a continual 
regression of the equinoctial points, and hence arises the distinction 
between the sidereal and tropical year. The effect is modified in a small 
degree by the variation of the plane of the ecliptic, which tends to produce 
a progression of the equinoxes. If the movement of the equinoctial points 
arising from these combined causes was uniform, the length of the tropi- 
cal year would be manifestly invariable. Theory, however, indicates 
that for ages past the rate of regression has been slowly increasing, and 
consequently the length of the tropical year has been gradually dimin- 
ishing. The rate of diminution is exceedingly small. Laplace found 
tliat it amounts to somewhat less than half a second in a century. Con- 
sequently the length of the tropical year is now about ten seconds less 
than it was in the time of Hipparchus. 

Limits of variation of the tropical year modified by the disiurbing 
action of the sun and moon upon the terrestrial spheroid. — The tropical 
year will not continue indefinitely to diminish in length. When it has 
once attained a certain minimum value, it will then increase, until finally 
having attained an extreme value in the opposite direction, it will again 
begin to diminish, and thus it will perpetually oscillate between certain 
fixed limits. Laplace found that the extent to which the tropical year 
is liable to vary from this cause amounts to 38 seconds. If it were not 
for the effect produced upon the inclination of the equator to the eclip- 
tic by the mean disturbing action of the sun and moon upon the ter- 
restrial si)heroid, the extent of variation would amount to 1C2 seconds. 

Motion of the perihelion of the terrestrial orbit. — The major axis of 



1G8 



LAPLACE. 



the orbit of each planet is iu a state of continual movement from the 
disturbing action of the other planets. In some cases it makes the com- 
plete tour of the heavens ; in others it merely oscillates around a mean 
position. In the case of the earth's orbit, the perihelion is slowly ad- 
vancing in the same direction as that in which all the planets are re- 
volving around the sun. The alteration of its position with respect to 
the stars amounts to about 11" in a year, but since the equinox is re- 
gressing in the opposite direction at the rate of 50" in a year, the whole 
annual variation of the longitude of the terrestrial perihelion amounts 
to Gl". Laplace has considered two remarkable epochs in connection 
with this fact, viz, the epoch at which the major axis of the earth's orbit 
coincided with the line of the equinoxes, and the epoch at which it stood 
perpendicular to that line. By calculation he found the former of these 
epochs to be referable to the year 4107 B. C, and the latter to the 
year 1215 A. D. He accordingly suggested that the latter should be 
used as a universal epoch for the regulation of chronological occurrences. 



EULOGY OiN QUETELET. 



Abstract of an Essay upox uis Life and Wouks, by Ed. Maili.y. 



[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Annuaire de VAcademie royale of Belgium for 1875.] 

Lambert Adolphe Quetelet was boru at Ghent on the 22d of February, 
1796. He was educated at the Ijceum of his native town, and early 
showed that nature had endowed him, not only with a vivid imagina- 
tion and a mind of power, but also with the precious gift of indomitable 
perseverance. He carried away all the prizes of his school, and at the 
same time wrote poetry which attracted considerable attention. He 
also manifested a talent for art, and a drawing of his gained the first 
prize at the lyceum of Ghent in 1812. 

Having lost his father when only seven years of age, and his family 
not being able to support him, he was obliged, as soon as he had com- 
pleted his course at the lyceum, to enter, as a teacher, the institution 
for public instruction at Audenarde. Here he remained a year, teach- 
ing mathematics, drawing, and grammar; he was then given a master- 
ship in his native town. In 1815 the lyceum at Ghent, by order of the 
municipal council, was converted into a university, and Quetelet was ap- 
pointed professor of mathematics. He received his nomination on his 
nineteenth birthday. There was nothing brilliant in the lot which had 
thus far fallen to him, but it secured the means of existence, and left 
him at liberty to devote himself to art, literature, and science. 

His most intimate companion, with whom he shared all bis tastes, 
was G. Dandelin, who had been his fellow-pupil at the lyceum. The 
two friends at one time appear to have been seized with a dramatic 
furor, and, with the assistance of a distinguished musician, composed a 
grand prose opera in one act, called ''■John the Second, or Charles the 
Fifth, in the tcalls of Ghent." It was represented in the theater of Ghent, 
on the 18th of December, 181G. Its success appears to have been moder- 
ate, since it was only played twice, and was withdrawn on the plea that it 
excited the galleries too much. Be this as it may, with it ended the 
dramatic career of the authors. They had, however, in preparation, 
two other pieces. The Two Troubadours and The Jester, but before the com- 
pletion of these Dandelin was appointed second lieutenant of engineers, 
and ordered to Namur, while Quetelet was won back to the pursuit of 
science through the influence of his associate. Professor Garnier. 

In 1819 he passed his examination and received the degree of Doctor 
of Science, the first conferred by the new university. In honor of the 
event he gave a banquet, which was attended by many of the public 
functionaries, as well as the professors and pupils of the university. 



170 EULOGY ON QUETELET. 

His iiiaii*^ural address gave brilliaut promise of bis future success. It 
was divided iuto two parts : lu the tir»t lie showed that the locus of the 
centers of a series of circles, tangents to two given circles of position, 
is always a cojiic section ; in the second he exhibited a new curve 
of the third degree, the/ocale, the locus of the foci of all the conic sec- 
tions, determined by a transversal plane, revolving around a certain 
point, ui)on the surface of a vertical cone. The discovery of this curve 
was an important addition to mathematics, and the term focale is as 
inseparably connected with the name of Quetelet, as cycloid with that of 
Lis favorite author Pascal. Among the themes he submitted to the 
university in addition to his address, was a Latin essay upon the ques- 
tion whether aerolites are projected from the moon. 

On the occasion of the laying of the corner-stone of the university 
buildings, a banquet was given, preceded by a literary meeting, at 
which was read a poem by Quetelet upon the death of Gretry. This 
production, full of beautiful versification and expressions of exquisite 
sensibility, procured for him an introduction to M. Falk, minister of 
public instruction, who, with the interest excited by a young man at 
once a poet and a geometer, a man of letters and of science, caused hiui 
to be nominated to a professorship at the Athenaeum of Brussels. 

His first act on arriving at Brussels was to pay his respects to Com- 
mandant Xieuport, then in his seventy-third year, and who might be 
said to be the only rojjresentative of the exact sciences in Belgium. He 
had read the inaugural address of the young doctor, and appreciated, 
as it deserved, the discovery of the focale. Stimulated by the encour- 
agement he received, Quetelet continued his labors in this direction, 
and published in 1819, in the Annales Belyique, an article under the 
title of tSome new properties of the/ocale and of some other curces. This 
was favorably noticed by Garnier, his former preceptor at Ghent, and 
procured his election as a member of .the Belgian Academy on the 1st 
of February, 1820. He was then twenty-four years of age. 

He soon won the high regard of his associates in the academy, anlong 
whom were the talented Cornelissen and the renowned chemist Van 
Mons, whose niece he afterward married. The first use he made of his 
influence was to procure the election of his friend Dandelin and of 
Baron Keilfenberg, third regent of the athenitum, afterward professor 
of philosophy at the university of Louvain. The latter lodged in the 
same house with Quetelet, and soon became avde itly attached to him. 
He was in intimate intercourse and a great f -vr-ite with the French 
refugees then in Brussels, and introduced to them his new iiiend. 
Among them were such men as David, Arnault, Boryde Saint Vincent, 
Berber, Merlin, «S:c., who, if they had been won by the ready and bril- 
liant wit of Keifi'enberg, were equally attracted by the more solid quali- 
ties of Quetelet. His relations with the refugees did not, however, pre- 
vent him from forming other associations; he sought out and made 
friends of the artists of the city, joined a literary society which had just 



EULOGY OX QUETELET. 171 

been formed, and became a member of the reading committee for the 
royal theaters. In the latter capacity he had free access to a stage 
"Which was favored each year by Talma, Mile. Mars, and the i^rincipal 
French comedians of the day. 

The literary society i)uljlished annually a poetical almanac, the twen- 
tieth and last volume of which appeared in 1825, when the society quietly 
ceased to exist. Quetelet was a contributor, and, as his poetical life 
seems also to have ended about this time, it may be well to notice here 
some of the pieces published by him since the Eulogy on Gretry. The 
article entitled '•'-The laM moments'^ resembles somewhat, but is inferior 
to, the ''■Fareicell of the poct to his lamp" oT^e of \i\^hi:?!tYAQCQS. ^'TlielQtTi 
of January, or the night-ratch of the ladies." contains some charming 
lines. An ode to Tollens is m the style of Horace, the favorite poet 
of Quetelet. An ode to Odevare, a painter, greatly admired in 1821, 
although now but little known, is much more elevated in charac*^er. TJie 
investiture of the principal'ty of Orange, given by Charlemagne to William 
the Cornet, was also ably treated in verse by our associate. Works of the 
imagination, whether in prose or verse, greatly interested Quetelet. His 
^'Essay upon Eomance" published in 1823 in Belgic Annals, has lost none 
of its interest, and, with his poetry, ought to be reprinted. He studied 
the romances of different nations, translated into verse Schiller's tale 
called •• The Knigbt of Toggenburg,'' and into prose various Spanish 
and English ballads. 

He had no predilection for the classical, in literature or art, and says, 
of modern painting, '-The pictures of antiqnity. full of life and genius 
as they are, can never produce in our minds the illusive effect they had 
upon the Greeks and the Eomans. Flora, Zephyr, Venus, so charming 
in their pictures, are seldom so in ours. It is no doubt good to be the 
echo of antiquity, but only those can understand the sounds repeated 
who can go back to past ages and assume for the moment their religion 
and national character. Let us imitate the Greeks in their simplicity 
and in their admirable portraiture of nature, but let us have, as they did, 
our own heroes, our groves, and our religion. What would the age of 
Pericles have said if Euripides and Sophocles had represented only 
Osirus or the mysterious fites of the Eg-yptians ?" 

"T//e Lords of the Castk'^ and "The Countess Ida." (fables,) ••.1/^^ Lit- 
tle Boat." an allegorical ballad, dedicated to M. Falk, an elegy upon the 
death of Adolph Deleraer. an ode to Orion, translated from the Dutch 
of Xieuland, a translation of a portion of Byron's '"Siege of Corinth." 
and the '■•Scald and Lysis^" a romance, are among others of his i>oetical 
pieces worthy of mention. The latter was commended by the classic 
Eaonl in the "Bilgic Mereury." He says, in reference to it, " Quetelet, 
with whom poetry is only a relaxation, writes verse with great facility. 
He is of the number of those who illustrate the truth that the musesare 
sisters." 

We have endeavored to give some idea of Quetelet as a poet, a man 



172 EULOGY ON QUETELET. 

of letters, and a geometer, and before proceeding to consider him as a 
physicist, astronomer, and statistician we shall see how he filled the 
office of j)rofessor. When first appointed to the AthensBum of Brussels, 
he occupied only a very subordinate j^osition, as professor of elementary 
mathematics, but he was soon promoted, and his duties much extended. 
In 1824 we find him teaching at the athenteum the descriptive geometry 
of Menge, the theory of shades and perspective, the calculation of prob- 
abilities of La Croix, higher algebra, and analytical geometry ; while he 
was also giving a public course of lectures at the niu^eum upon experi- 
mental physics, the elements of astronomy, and of differential and 
integral calculus. 

He was very highly esteemed by his pupils. There was something 
about him at once imposing and amiable, while there was a complete 
absence of anything like pedantry or haughtiness. Although marked 
with small-pox, his physiognomy was refined and impressive; it was only 
necessary to fix his large dark eyes, surmounted with heavy black brows, 
upon the refractory, to insure at once silence and submission. On ac- 
count of the inefificiency of his assistants, he was obliged each year to 
commence arithmetic, algebra, and geometry. He separated his pupils, 
according to their ability, into two classes, occui^jing adjoining rooms, 
and he would i)ass from one to the other apartmeftt, experiencing no 
difficulty in preserving silence in both. He was as simple and natural 
in his teaching as in everything else. He reduced arithmetic to a few 
general principles, and, as soon as he had initiated his pupils in the 
notation of algebra, showed how this admirable instrument could be 
used to resolve all ordinary questions relating to numbers. His talent 
for drawing was displayed by the geometrical figures he formed with 
chalk upon the blackboard to illustrate his teachings. At the Athe- 
naeum his courses attracted numerous auditors from all classes of so- 
ciety. He had a special talent for exposition, and knew how to use to 
advantage the few instruments he had at command. He disliked to 
make experiments with complicated apparatus, which he said was apt 
to divert the attention from the results exhibited ; he considered that 
only indispensable articles, such as the scales, an electric machine, a 
voltaic pile, and a few other simple imstruments need be provided. 

For the use of his public courses he published several elementary 
works. The first, upon astronomy, appeared in Paris in 1826. It has 
been reprinted many times in France and Belgium and translated into 
several languages. It was followed b^' one upon natural philosoi)hy, 
which was intended to enable his pupils at the museum to correct the 
notes hurriedly taken at the time of the lecture and often erroneous. We 
have said that he disliked complicated apparatus in teaching the ele- 
ments of physics, and he accordingly prepared a small volume, the object 
of which was to describe observations and experiments which could be 
easily made by any one. This was published in 1832, and the author 
intended to follow it with other works of the same kind upon magne- 



EULOGY ON QHETELET. 173 

tism, electricity, light, &c. lu 1828 be published a review of the lectures 
given at the museum upon the calculus of probabilities, as an introduc- 
tion to his course of physics and astronomy. 

The public lectures of Quetelet were such a success that the govern- 
ment considered it advisable to institute other courses of the same kind, 
and on the third of March, 1827, was installed the Museum of Science 
and Letters, with a corps of efficient professors in the various branches 
of science and literature. In the review of the lecture with which, three 
days later, Quetelet opened his course, we find one of his favorite ideas: 
" The more progress physical sciences make, the more they tend to 
enter the domain of mathematics, which is a kind of centre to which 
they all converge. We may even judge of the degree of perfection to 
which a science has arrived by the facility with which it may be sub- 
mitted to calculatiou." The museum continued to exist for eight years. 
After suffering with all the other educational establishments of the 
country from the effects of the revolution, it was absorbed into the free 
university in 1834, and Quetelet ceased his public instruction after 
twenty years of service. He soon commenced again, however, having 
been appointed professor of astronomy and geodesy to the military 
school, by a royal decree, on the Gth of January, 183G. Among his pu- 
pils at the Athenaeum were the Duke of Saxe Coburg Gotha and the 
late Prince Consort of England, who always retained a warm affection 
for his preceptor. 

We have said that Quetelet was only twenty-four years of age when 
made a member of the Brussels Academy. His first contribution, 
"A memoir upon a general formula for determining the surface of a polygon, 
formed on a sphere, hy the arcs of great or little circles, disposed in any man- 
ner whatever,^'' was an admirable production. Garnier said of it, that 
its elejrant simplicity and the symmetry of the formula lent interest to 
a subject which would otherwise have appeared very dry. His second 
menioir, "A new theory of conic sections considered in the solid,'''' did him 
great honor. His third paper was upon tlie paths followed hy light 
and elastic bodies. We have now come to a subject which occupied much 
of his attention, to which he devoted three memoirs presented to the 
academy, and numerous articles in the Correspondance Mathematique et 
Physique — that is, caustic curves. In one of those articles he gives the 
following theorem, which in importance is worthy to be ranked with the 
discovery of the focale: "The caustic by reflexion, or by refraction for 
any cm ve whatever, illuminated by a radiant point, is the development 
of another curve, which has the property of being the envelope of all 
the circles, which have their centers upon the reflecting or directing 
curve, and of which the radii are equal to the distances of the centers 
from the radiant point in the first case, and proportional to these same 
distances in the second case ; the constant relation being that of the 
sine of incidence to the sine of refraction." It was easy to extend this 
theorem to surfaces, considering spheres enveloped instead of circles. 



174 EULOGY ON QUETELET. 

The memoirs presented to the academy were, February 3, 1823, " Ujwn 
circular conchoids; ^^ November 3, 1825, ^'•Revieic of a new theory of caus- 
tics foUowed by different applications to the theory of stereoyraphic projec- 
tions."' These researches attracted the atteutiou of Gergoinie and other 
distiuguished geometers, aud were particidarly noticed by the illustrious 
French mathematician, Chasles, after the Correspondence Mat. and Phys. 
had given them notoriety. We mention two other papers read before 
the Academy. One, "JL memoir upon some graphical constructions of the 
planetary orhits,^'' and the other ^'■upon different subjects of yeometry of 
three dimensions,''^ presented October 28, 1826. 

In 1823 commenced the efforts to found ar observatory* in Belgium. 
The especial aptitudes of Quetelet pointed him out as the best persou 
to complete the enterprise, and, thanks to M. Talk, then minister of the 
Interior, he was commissioned to go to Paris to study the practice of 
astronomy. His own account of his first visit to the observatory may 
not be uninteresting : " I arrived at Paris near the close of the year 
1823, with the prospect of founding an observatory in Belgium, but at 
the same time with a thorough conviction of my want of knowledge of 
practical astronomy. I went immediately to the royal observatory, but 
on entering this building, distinguished by historical associations, I was 
more than ever oppressed with a sense of my deficiencies. I had not 
even a letter of introduction to relieve the embarrassment of a first visit. 
I mounted with sufficient assurance the grand staircase, but when I 
found myself before the doors of Arago and Bouvard I stood for some 
time irresolute. I was about to knock at the first, when Bouvard 
opened his aud came out, on his way to the observing-halls. He asked 
me what I wanted. I at once told him my history, to which the excel- 
lent man seemed to listen with interest. He then introduced me to the 
observing-rooms, into the presenceof the great astronomical instruments, 
to me a novel and wonderful sight. With great kindness he explained 
their purpose aud use, and gave me permission to observe whenever I 
chose to do so. I availed myself of this permission that very evening, 
and to my surprise was allowed access, freely and alone, to the instru- 
ments and records of the observatory. I came day after day, aud always 
with the same confidence accorded ! From time to time the kind Bouvard 
examined my observations and always with encouraging words. He 
gradually manifested more and more affection for me, offered to initiate 
me into the practical calculus of astronomy, and from that time directed 
all my studies, with a care truly paternal. Not content with these man- 
ifestations of kindness, he invited me to his house, presented me to his 
friends, among others to La Place aud Poisson, admitted me to his 
Friday dinners, and I became in some sort a member of his household." 
Quetelet remained in Paris several months, and had the honor of being 
presented to the institute by Alexander von Humboldt. He returned to 
Brussels on the first of March, 1824. 
To fit himself still further for the office of director of the new obser- 



EULOGY ON QUETELET. 175 

vatory, be was sent to the principal establishments of the kind iu Europe, 
and on this tour he was accompanied by his wife. He had married on 
the 20th of September, 1825, the danghter of a French physician, and 
the niece of the chemist Van Mens. To an intimate acquaintance with 
the usages of polite society this lady united a ready wit and not in- 
considerable literary attainments. She was also an excellent musician. 
Obliged at an early age to preside iu the house of her father, where 
w^as congregated the best society of Brussels, she acquired ease and 
grace of manner, and w^as well prepared to assist her husband when, iu 
after years, he had arrived at distinction, and exercised a generous hos- 
pitality toward the distinguished strangers of every country who visited 
the observatory. During his journey, Quetelet made the acquaintance 
" of some of the most distinguished men of the age, of Herschel, Schu- 
macher, Grauss, Olders, and others, and at Weimar he had the pleasure 
of assisting in the celebration of the eightieth birthday of Goethe, with 
whom he remained eight days. The great poet showed him his experi- 
ments in optics, and entertained him with his theory of colors. He was 
also present at the conference of German naturalists, held at Heidel- 
berg on the 18th of September. 

While waiting the completion of his plans in regard to the observa- 
tory, he, iu conjunction with M. Gamier, established the i^eriodical La 
Correspondance Matliematique et Physique, to which the most eminent 
men of the age were willing contributors. This publication continued 
without intermission till 1839, when Quetelet was obliged to resign its 
supervision ou account of the pressing nature of his engagements as 
permanent secretary to the academy, to which office he had been elected 
in lS3i. 

The erection of the observatory was decided upon on the 8th of June, 
1826. It was constructed according to the jilans of Quetelet, but was 
not finished till after many vicissitudes, occasioned principally by the 
political events of 1830. He had been appointed to the directorship in 
1818, but the observatory was not comi)leted until 1832. He then im- 
mediately commenced his labors, of which it would occupy too much 
space to give even a list. They included meteorology, terrestrial physics, 
astronomy, the collection of materials for the Annales Annuaires of the 
observatory, and the other special works in which he has brought together 
the results of his researches. In the early days of the observatory, all 
the attention of Quetelet was directed toward meteorology- and terres- 
trial physics. The elements of these two sciences had been almost totally 
neglected in Belgium, and his first desire was to correct this grave error, 
a task in which he perfectly succeeded. He has given the results of his 
persevering observations in his works Upon the climate of Belgium, and 
Upon the physics of the Globe, and thus the basis of the meteorology of 
Belgium was established. The meteorological observations were com- 
menced in 1833, and also the observations for the determination of the 
latitude and longitude of the establishment. At that time Quetelet pos- 



176 EULOGY ON QUETELET. 

sessed only very few and very inferior astronomical instruments. In the 
niontli of July, 1835, the meridian telescope and the mural circle were 
put in position, but the equatorial was not mounted until June of the fol- 
lowing year. Quetelet was anxious to have the turning-dome for the 
equatorial ready in time to observe Halley's comet, the return of which 
was looked for with great interest by all Europe, but in spite of all his 
efforts, aiul the good-will of the government, he was disai)pointed, and 
was obliged to follow the course of this eccentric wanderer with only his 
telescope. 

The determination of the difference of longitude between the observato- 
ries of Brussels and Greenwich was later a source of great anxietj" as well 
as interest to him, when, in 1853, a trial was made of the new electrical 
telegraph for this purpose. Two successful attempts of the kind had 
been made in America, but the distance between tlie two places, the in- 
tervention of the sea, the great reputation of the director of the obser- 
vatory of Greenwich, and the responsibility assumed before the world, 
rendered Quetelet very solicitous as to the result of his co-operation, and 
his anxiety did not cease until the two sealed packets, containing the ob- 
servations made simultaneously at Greenwich and Brussels, which were 
by common consent opened on the same day in both places, i)roved the 
result to be entirely satisfactory. A similar attempt was made in 1868 
between Brussels and Leyden. 

At the time the observatory was erected, clocks and watches through' 
out the country were regulated only by sun-dials, and as these were often 
defective and liable to get out of order, it frequently happened that there 
would be a difference in time of from 20 to 25 minutes between the 
clocks of different towns, and even between those of the same city. The 
establishment of railroads necessitated more precision, and on the22d 
of February, 1836, a royal decree enacted that a meridian should be traced 
and an instrument of observation be established in forty-one of the prin- 
cipal cities of the kingdom. The execution of this work was intrusted 
to Quetelet. 

From 1811 to 1815 the observatory of Brussels was the center of a 
vast meteorological net-work, which comprised more than eighty stations 
in Europe and in the north of Asia. Its director published the results 
of this great enterprise, with a large number of plates, showing the 
course and rapidity of the movements of the atmospheric waves. He also 
made many observations upon the temperature of the earth, and an un- 
interrupted series of observations of the elements of terrestrial magnet- 
ism. But, perhaps, the most remarkable works of Quetelet were the 
liapers he published on his observations of the periodical i)]ienomena of 
plants and animals. These gave an impulse to similar studies through- 
out the whole of Europe, and he may on this account be considered as 
the founder of a new science. 

As a class for the study of the fine arts had been added to the 
academy, and other changes made, it was deemed advisable to form a 



EULOGY ON QUETELET. 177 

new iustitiitiou, and ou the IGth of December, 1845, was established The 
Royal Academy of Science, Letters, and Fine Arts of Brussels. The first com- 
/nunicatiou made b^' (^uetelet to the new estabhshmeut was u[)uri the 
historj- of art iu Belgium; the mauuers and customs of the people at 
different ages; their habitations, ornaments, furniture, the instruments 
they used to supply the needs of life, &c. He recommended the forma- 
tion of an ethnological museum to assist in the study of various types 
of the human race as well as of their habits, and iu ISIT, through his 
instrumentality, was formed the Museum of Antiquities of Belgium. 

In 1853 Quetelet was appointed president of the maritime conference 
held at Brussels on the suggestions of Lieutenant (afterward Captain) 
Maury. Its purpose was to establish a system of uniform observations 
at sea. 

The regular astronomical observations of the Brussels Observatory 
commenced iu 183G, although the small corps of the establishment, and 
the attention given to meteorological observations, did not permit of a 
great field of work. The observations nmde from 1837 to 1839 furnish 
iu the Annals of the Observatory a catalogue of GGG stars. From 1848 
these observations were carried on with renewed ardor; but all the 
regularity Quetelet desired could not be secured until 1857. From this 
year a great work has been continued up to the present day. We refer 
to the catalogue of 10,000 stars, still in preparation, but which will soon 
be published, completing the monument raised to astronomical science 
by Adolphe Quetelet, and his son M. Earnest Quetelet, who during 
nearly- eighteen years has shared the work of the observatory, and whose 
labors have not been interrupted by his father's death. 

Adolphe Quetelet contributed greatly to the progress of the study of 
shooting-stars, about the nature of which little was then known. His 
attention was first turned to them in 1819, when he wrote his thesis upon 
the orign of aerolites, and a few years later, he gave, iu the first number 
of the Correspondance, a method for determining the height of a meteor 
from two observations in different places. In 182G simultaneous obser- 
vations were organized by his efibrts at Brussels, Gaud, and Liege. He 
then abandoned the subject, and did not take it up again uutil ten years 
later, when he resumed his observations, and continued them for the 
rest of his life. He first called attention to the periodicity of the star- 
showers of the 10th of August, and stimulated astronomers of his own and 
other countries to make numerous observations, which, taken together, 
have prepared the way for the remarkable theories now formed as to 
the character of these interesting meteors. We are indebted to him for 
very valuable catalogues of their appearances, and also for conscientious 
and precise researches on their frequency and on the several peculiari- 
ties they i)reseut. 

The direction of the establishment confided to his care did not hindei 

him from devoting himself to studies of another order, which show the 

variety of his powei^s and the habitual industry of his life. We refer 

to the statistical works, which obtained for him a high place in the world 

12 s 



178 EULOGY ON QUETELET. 

of science. His first memoir upon this snbject, The laws of hlrth and 
mortality in Brussels, was read before tlie academy ou the 4:tli of June, 
1825. "The establishment of life-insurance companies in our prov- 
inces," says the author, " and the desire to see these laudable and, if 
well conducted, benevolent institutions continued among us has induced 
me to make some researches into the laws of birth and of mortality." 

After showing that during the preceding year the births and the 
deaths had followed almost exactly in the same proportion the varia- 
tions of the thermometer, only in contrary directions, he gives some 
tables of mortality and population, with distinction of sex, and shows 
how they might be made of use in the speculations of the life-insurance 
companies. Two important remarks appear in the memoir. One, that 
the annual number of births and of deaths corresponds to a sinusoid, of 
which the abscissas represent the different times of the year, and the 
ordinates the number of births or of deaths at these seasons. The 
other verifies the observation of iMalthus, that the number of births 
increases when through any accidental cause an unusual loss of life has 
been sustained by a population. Another memoir, in 1827, upon the 
births, deaths, prisons, and poor-houses of the Pays-Bas, was intended 
to complete and develop the preceding. It contained another table of 
mortality for the lower provinces, but without distinction of sex. 
Researches upon population nest appeared, and in 1828 Statistical re- 
searches in the Idngdom of the Netherlands. In the importance of the facts 
given, in breadth of view and novelty of deduction, this memoir is 
superior to the two preceding. A short introduction gives the origin, 
aim, resources, and use of statistics, the degree of probability which 
may be obtained in deductions from them, the uncertainty, which can 
never be entirely overcome, and the objections of ignorance and false 
knowledge. The author divides the subject as follows : Extent of the 
kingdom of the Xetherlands; population; imposts and commerce; 
libraries and daily papers; educational and benevolent institutions; 
crimes and delinquencies; comparative examination of the different 
parts of the kingdom. Some of the results obtained are very striking. 
Thus, in comparing the fecundity of marriage with us and with the 
English, he says: " Great Britain produces less than our country, but 
her fruit is more durable. She gives birth to fewer citizens, but she pre- 
serves them better. If her fecundity is less, her useful men are more 
numerous, and generations are not as often renewed to the detriment of 
the nation. Man during his early years lives at the expense of society. 
He contracts a debt which he ought some time to pay, and if he fails to do 
so, his existence has been a loss instead of a gain to his i'ellow-citizens." 

Speaking of criminals and delinquents, he says : " The proportion 
condemned to the number accnsed in the criminal and police courts is 
the same in Belgium and in France ; but in the courts of assize the 
l)roportion of the condemned to the accused in Belgium is 84 to 100, 
while in France and England it is only G5 ; a fiict due to the want of 
the jury in Belgium at the time the observations were made. When that 



EULOGY ON QUETELET. 179 

institution was restored, the number of tlie condemuecl was reduced to 
that of France. Tlie author then gives a table indicating the number 
of crimes committed at different ages, and also giving the amount of 
what he calls the tendency to crime. 

" What is very remarkable," he observes, " is the frightful regularity 
with which crimes are repeated. Year after year are recorded the same 
crimes, in the same order, with the same punishments ; in the same pro- 
l)ortions. Sorrowful condition of the human race ! The number con- 
demned to the prison, irons, and the scaffold is as certain as the revenue 
of the state. We can tell in advance how many individuals will poison 
their fellows, how many will stain their hands with human blood, how 
many will be forgers, as surely as we can predict the number of births 
and of deaths. 

During the years 1831 and 1832 Quetelet devoted most of his time to 
statistical researches, and the five following memoirs were the fruit of; 
his labors: Upon the law of the fjrowth of man; Upon the tendency to- 
crime at different arjes; Upon the iceight of man at different ages; Upon 
reproduction and mortality; and Statistics of the courts of justice of Belgium 
from the years 182G to 1831. The researches in regard to the size and 
weight of man were new at the time. Quetelet found that the law of 
growth, at least from birth until the thirteenth year, could be repre- 
sented by a hyperbola. Twenty years later MM. Bravais and Martins 
adopted a hyperbola as the curve of the diametrical increase of the 
Norway pine, which is at least a singular coincidence. In the memoir 
upon the tendency to crime, he enlarges upon the ideas already given, 
passes in review the different causes which lead to the development or 
suppression of this tendency, and denies the favorable influence ordi- 
narily attributed to education. "We too often," he says, "confound 
moral instruction with the merely learning to read and write, which in 
many instances only provides new instruments for the commission of 
crime. On the other hand, as to the injurious moral effects of poverty, 
some of the provinces of France reputed to be jDoorest are also the 
most virtuous. 

In connection with these two memoirs he says : " Man, without know- 
ing it, and supposing that he acts of his own free will, is governed by 
certain laws from which he cannot escape. We may say that the human 
species, considered as a whole, belongs to the order of physical phenom- 
ena. The greater the number, the more the individual will is subordi- 
nated to the series of general results which i)roceed from general causes . 
that control the social condition. These causes ought to be sought out, 
and only observation can discover them." Man, as the author considers 
him, is analogous to the center of gravity in a body. "If the average 
man were determined for a nation, he would represent the type of that, 
nation ; if he could be determined for an assembly of all men, he would 
represent the type of an entire human species. Although his will is 
restrained within very narrow limits, man contains within him moral 
forces which distinguish him from the animal, and by which he can, to 



180 EULOGY ON QUETELET. 

some extent, modify the laws of nature. These perturbing forces act so 
slowly that the modilicatious they produce may be called secular per- 
turbations, since they are analogous to those astronomical variations in 
the systems of the world which require centuries for their investiga- 
tion. The study of the natural and perturbing forces of man, in other 
M'ords, .social mechanics, would develop laws as admirable as those which 
govern celestial and inanimate bodies. As to the accusation of materi- 
alism, to which these results are said to lead, it has been made so often 
whenever science has essayed a new stei) into the unknown regions of 
nature, that it is not worth while to answer it ; especially' at the pres- 
ent day, when it can no longer be followed by the rack or imprison- 
ment. Who can justly accuse us of insulting the Divinity, when we 
exercise the most noble faculties He has given us in meditating upon 
the sublime laws of the universe, or in endeavoring to make manifest 
the admirable economy and infinite wisdom which presided over their 
formation ? Or who can regard with indifference the sciences which 
have substituted for the narrow, insignificant world of the ancients, our 
magnificent solar system, and so extended our starry vault that we can- 
not attempt to fathom its depths without a feeling of religious awe"? 
Certainly a knowledge of the marvelous laws which govern the universe 
gives a much grander idea of the power of the Divinity than that which 
blind superstition would impose upon us. If the material pride of man 
is humbled by the thought of the small space he occupies even upon 
the grain of dust he calls his world, how much he should rejoice in his 
intelligence, which allows him to penetrate so far into the secrets of the 
heavens. If science has advanced thus in the study of worlds, may we 
not look for equal progress in the study of man ? Is it not absurd to 
suppose that, while all else is controlled by admirable laws, the human 
race alone is abandoned to blind chance, and possesses no principle of 
conservation ? Such a belief is surely more injurious to the Divinity 
than the research we propose. 

In 1832-'33 appeared an article '■'■TJpon the possihUity of measuring the 
influence of the causes which modify social elements,''^ and one '■''Upon the 
influence of the seasons ivpoyi the faculties of man.^' As soon as Quetelet 
obtained a new result he hastened to make it known, often before his 
idea was sufficiently matured or the fact at all certain, which accounts 
for the repetition in his articles. This mode of working has some ad- 
vantages ; it excites interest and parallel efforts, but it occasions loss of 
time, and renders the coordination of the researches more difficult. In 
1835 appeared the admirable work, ".l/on and the development of .his 
facidiicHf or, '■'■An essay upon social j>//j/.s/c6'." It is a review of all his 
previous works on statistics; "a sketch," he calls it, "of a vast picture, 
the details of which can only be sui)plied by patient investigation." It 
is divided into four volumes : the first two are devoted to the physical 
qualities of man, the third to his moral and intellectual qualities, and 
the fourth treats of the properties of the average man, and of the social 
system. The author considers, first, the determination of the average 



EULOGY ON QUETELET. 181 

man in general; second, with respect to physical qnalities. He then 
proceeds to examine all that relates to the life of man ; his birth, death, 
strength, height, agility, «&c. We give some extracts: "The apprecia- 
tion of the physical qualities of the average man is by no means difScult, 
either when measured directly or through their effects ; it is quite other- 
wise with the moral and intellectual qualities, though they also, to some 
extent, may be judged ofthroug-h the effects they produce." "Man pos- 
sesses at his birth the germ of all the qualities which are successively 
developed, to a greater or less degree ; prudence loredominates in one, 
imagination in another, avarice in a third. We sometimes observe great 
size in proportion to age, or a precocious imagination, or unusual vigor in 
old age, and the fact alone that we notice these exceptional cases proves 
that we are conscious of a general law of development, and even make 
use of it to form our judgment." The author successively considers the 
average man, first, with reference to letters and the fine arts; second, in 
relation to the medical or natural sciences. "The consideration of the 
average man," he says, " is so important in medical science that it is almost 
impossible to judge of the condition of an individual without comparing 
it with that of a fictitious being, supposed to be in the normal state; 
in fact, the average man we have been considering." Third, in relation to 
philosophy and morals; and, fourth, in relation to politics. It is quite 
curious to see how he regards political systems. He is opposed to 
the system which consists, when there are two dominant ideas in a 
country, in taking a kind of mean between the two, but would found 
a system upon the elements common to all parties ; or, where there was 
divergence, upon the ideas held by the largest number. " Govern- 
ments," he says, " have their states of equilibrium, which may be either 
stable or unstable. The stable equilibrium exists when, after action 
and reaction of every kind, a government constantly returns to its nor- 
mal condition. If, on the contrary, from aTiy cause whatever, a govern- 
ment tends to diverge more and more from its normal condition, chang- 
ing constantly, without sufflcient motive, its form and institutions, its 
end is near. Revolutions are only the reactions of the people, or a 
party, against abuses, real or supposed, and would not take place if the 
provocation did not exist. The liberty of the press, singularly enough, 
by facilitating these reactions, renders great revolutions almost impos- 
sible, for it does not allow forces to accumulate. The reaction is mani- 
fested immediately after the action, sometimes almost before the action 
has time to propagate itself." This essay gave its author a liigh place 
in the scientific world. It was translated into both English and German. 
We have not space to notice other papers upon statistics, which appeared 
in 184:5-' J:G-'48. He was happy in his application of mathematics to sta- 
tistical questions. He formulated the now well-known binomial theorem, 
and insisted, more especially in his last years, on its remarkable gener- 
ality. He organized the first statistical congress, which was held in Brus- 
sels in 1853, and was appointed its president. He was also president of 
the commission of statistics of the kingdom of Belgium. On account 



182 EULOGY ON QIIETELET. 

of his works on social statistics be was made, iu 1872. an associate of the 
section of moral and political sciences of the Institute of France. Ho 
had long been a corresponding member of this academy. 

He was a member of the Royal Academy of Belgium, as we have said, 
from 1820, and held the presidency of this learned body from 1832 to 
1835, and then succeeded M. Dewez as perpetual secretary of its three 
divisions, science, literature, and tbe fine arts. We have been able to 
notice only a few of the memoirs inserted in the publications of the 
academy. The bulletins of each seance are, so to speak, crowded with his 
articles. One can see, by their inspection, with what care he registered 
all the remarkable phenomena which presented themselves during his 
long career. Thanks especially to him, they, as well as the Annuaires and 
An7ialesoi the Observatory, will always be consulted with profit by those 
who wish closely to study the aurora borealis, shooting-stars, bolides, 
storms, earthquakes, and such phenomena, upon which attention is 
drawn so strongly at the present time, and of which, for tlie most part, 
a complete theory has not yet been formed. The correspondence which 
Quetelet had with the oflicial heads of science in different countries 
contributed greatly to extend the relations of the academy, and to enrich 
its bulletins. 

The revolution of 1818 was not a surprise to Quetelet; he foresaw that 
the opposition of Louis Philippe to reforms, not in themselves to be feared, 
would cause some such catastrophe, but he did not anticipate the effect 
it would produce all over Europe. His attention, of course, at such a 
time was turned to politics, and in the month of March he presented to 
the academy a paper upon the nature of constitutional states, and some 
principles which may be derived from the consideration of them. Sev- 
eral other articles were also written by him on political subjects. We 
know that while other governments were falling, Belgium remained; 
intact, and while distress and terror were reigning elsewhere, she pre- 
pared to celebrate the anniversary of her independence. The fete iul 
honor of the occasion was organized by Quetelet as head of the artistic] 
and literary circle, and never was a more brilliant entertainment giveaj 
in Brussels. It evinced not only the good taste of Quetelet, but thoj 
extent of his inliuence. 

As to the private life of Quetelet, we have said thatiu 1825 he uiar-j 
ried Mademoiselle Crulet, niece of Professor Van Mons. Two children, 
a boy and a girl, were the fruit of this union. His mother and a youngj 
half-sister, who married an artist, M. Madou, formed the rest of hisj 
household. The children were educated at home. Madame Quetelet] 
herself taught them to read, and they had a master for writing. Every! 
Sunday a few friends were invited to dinner, and in the evening the] 
house was open to visitors. There were conversation, music, and cha- 
rades. The latter were in great favor, and Quetelet himself often took] 
l^art in them. Those who knew Quetelet only through his works, orl 
when enfeebled by age and disease, can have no idea of his gayety,] 
wit, and cordiality. He thoroughly enjoyed a laugh, and Eabelais was! 



EULOGY ON QUETELET. 183 

almost as much of a favorite with bim as Pascal. His conversation was 
admirable, bright, merry, witty, condescending to the most trivial as 
well as embracing the most extended snbjects in letters, science, and 
art. It was marked occasionally by a vein of severity, which, however, 
never wounded any one, and only served to bring into stronger relief 
the amiable traits of his character. He possessed the very rare faculty 
of knowing when to listen, and always managed to make his guests feel 
at ease. As the years passed, he attained more and more a position of 
distinction. The husband of his sister became a painter of eminence ; 
his daughter married a promising young artist, and his son, one of the 
l)est pupils of the military school, quitted the engineer corps of the 
army, when he had attained the rank of lieutenant, to enter the observ- 
atory. Death soon deprived him of his mother, whom he loved tenderly, 
but his wife remained his companion for thirty years. 

In the last years of his life, when his age warned him in vain to take 
repose, he undertook a series of works which he intended to be an 
epitome of the labor of his life. In 1804 appeared "T/je History of 
Ilathematical and Physical Science in Belgium ;''^ in 186G, '•'•Mathematical 
and Physical Science in Belgium, from the Commencement of the Nineteenth 
Century ;^^ in 18G7, " The Meteorology of Belgium, compared with that of 
the World ; " in 1SG9, " Social Physics, or an Essay upon the Development of 
the Faculties of Man ; " in 1870, '■'■Anthropometry, or Measure of the Fac- 
ulties of ManJ^ If death had not overtaken him he would have com- 
pleted the series by a new edition of his ^'■Physics of the Glohc,^' pub- 
lished in 18G1, and by a treatise on astronom3\ 

We will not attempt to enumerate the learned societies of which 
Quetelet was a member ; the list would be too long. He was elected 
an associate of the Eoj'al xVstrouomical Society on January 11, 1828. 

Notwithstanding the numerous occupations which claimed every mo- 
ment of his time, Quetelet always gave the kindest reception to those 
who wished to speak with him on subjects connected with his studies. 
He could discern and would encourage merit, and many learned men 
will remember the support they received from him, in the commence- 
ment of their career, with feelings of profound gratitude. 

Eighteen months before his death he undertook the fatiguing journey 
to St. Petersburg, at the pressing invitation of the Grand Duke Coustan- 
tine, under whose auspices the statistical congress had been called. 
Neither the fear of cholera nor the eutreaties of his friends deterred 
him. He was much gratified by the reception given him, and appeared 
to have been benefited in health by the journey. On Monday, the 2d of 
February, he fulfilled exactly his duties as secretary of the academy, 
although sutieringfrom the disease of the lungs of which he died fifteen 
days later. And he also assisted at the session of the class of letters. 
He died on the ITtli of February', 1874, and Belgium deplored her great- 
est scientific luminary. The "academy" was the last word on his lips as 
he sank into unconsciousness. 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 



Bv M. Dumas, Permanent Secrctari/. 
Pronounced before the Acadcuiy of Sciences of the Frencli Institute on tlie 26th of 

December, 1874. 



Gentle:\len : One year ago the Academy of Sciences received with 
prolbund sorrow the unexpected announcement of the death of one of 
its eigbt foreign associates, M. Auguste De La Eive. The rare talents 
of tills eminent physicist, his warm heart, and high moral character, 
won for him In his native city universal affection. Geneva mourned for 
him with, deep and sincere regret, for she lost in him an eminent philoso- 
pher and professor, who added to the renown of her justly-celebrated 
academy ; a citizen whose loyalty had frequently been tested in times 
of trouble; and a useful member of society, whose generous hospitality 
delighted in gathering around his fireside representatives of the science, 
art, letters, and politics of all nations. 

But Geneva was not alone in her grief. The services of M. Auguste 
De La Rive were such as the whole world recognizes, and of which 
posterity cherishes the memory. France, at least, cannot forget that 
if in time of prosperity she found in him always a faithful and provident 
friend, whose solicitude for her reputation seemed sometimes almost chi- 
merical, she was none the less sure of his active sympathy in days of 
misfortune. When Switzerland opened her heart to our soldiers, who, 
betrayed by fortune and decimated by the sword, cold and hunger, had 
retreated to the snows of the Jura, Auguste De La Rive and his associates 
brought to them succor and consolation ; not unmindful that our two races, 
united by an old friendship, had often mingled their blood under the 
same flag. 

It was not only to the illustrious physicist that his native city rendered 
the homage in which we this day unite. To the happy gifts bestowed by 
nature was atlded the prestige of an ancient and honorable name. The 
family ofDe Laliivemay be traced back to Ripade Mondovi, and is, in 
fact, one of those in which is personified the history of Geneva. From 
the twelfth century, for more than four hundred years, it is found in the 
first rank of the government archives of the city ; from the fourteenth 
century, it includes a judge of Piedmont; a lieutenant of police, op- 
posed to the Reformation, and exiled from Geneva for having advocated 
in secret the Catholic religion ; a plenipotentiary, charged with demand- 
ing of Henry IV, in favor of the Genevese, certain privileges which were 
only granted by royal patents ; an envoy of the canton, sent to Louis 
XIV, when asylum was given by the small republic to the refugees who 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 185 

had beeu driven out of FraDce by the revocation of the edict of Nantes; 
and, in the hist century-, three generals, one in the service of the Turks, 
another in Holhind, and a third in Sardinia. Up to this time there is 
no appearance of a scientific tendency among the members of this fam- 
i\y, so rich in every other line of persoual distinction, probably because 
the public mind was not turned in that direction ; but toward the end of 
the last century, we see them attaining in science the same high po- 
sition they held in public affairs. The mother of the illustrious historian 
of the Alps, De Saussure, belonged to the family of La liive, and also 
the wife of the learned philosopher, Charles Bonnet; both of whom, 
tradition says, exercised great inHuence, the one over her son, the other 
over her husband. In fact, the history of the family from the beginning 
of the present century would give not only that of the country, but 
also the most interesting chapters in contemporary science. 

Charles Gaspard De La liive, father of our lamented associate, was 
the first savant of the name. His works form, with those of his son, an 
indivisible whole. Destined for the magistracy, he pursued his law- 
studies until, in 1794, Geneva suffered a deplorable repetition of the 
French revolution. He took an active part in resisting the insurgents, 
and was imprisoned and condemned to death by the revolutionary 
tribunal. Thanks to the exertions of his friends, he escaped, took refuge 
in England, and went to Edinburgh to study medicine. His mother was 
very much opposed to his adopting this profession, as she considered it 
beneath the dignity of the family. She refused to pardon him for pur- 
suing a course contrary to her wishes, and, as she forbade his return to 
his native laud, he remained in exile long after the decree of amnesty 
allowed his appearance in Geneva. That he should have regarded such 
an unjust prohibition, caused by what seems to us a strange and unrea- 
sonable prejudice against an honorable profession, is very remarkable; 
but it must be remembered that in Geneva, at that time, aristocratic 
feelings largely prevailed, and i^ublic and private education, in spite of 
Eousseau, was based upon the inculcation of entire submission on the 
l^art of a child to the absolute authority of the parent. 

On his return to his country, Gaspard De La Rive devoted himself 
with diligence to such studies as were necessary to fit him for the chair 
of chemistry, and through the liberal character of his mind, which was 
open to the widest generalizations of science, was led to the investiga- 
tion of the electrical forces, to take part in the grand reform in natural 
philosophy then occupying the attention of France, and to lay the 
foundation for the future course of his illustrious son. If, in the history 
of science, the De La Rives may not be placed in exactly the same rank 
as Oersted, Ampere, Arago, and Faraday, whose labors they shared, 
certainly they cannot be widely separated from them. The united 
efforts of this brilliant pleiad of physicists, which includes M. Becquerel 
as a later and none the less distinguished representative, have added 
to civilization a knowledge of forces which are now indispensable to 



186 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

industry and commerce, and of wlijcli, alas, the fury of war lias 
increased the importance. How the a[)i)Iications of these agents, the 
discoveries of peace-loving men, have been perverted ! How the rapid 
telegram from the cabinet of the statesman inflames at will the passions 
of the [)eople! How electricity, at the command of a distant engineer, 
explodes the torpedo which violently disturbs the sea, or tires the mine 
which rends the earth like a volcano, extending on every side devasta- 
tion and death ! 

Gaspard De La Rive was a successful expounder of chemistry, and 
taught its principles with clearness and simplicity. His numerous and 
choice experiments rendered his instruction interesting and valuable 
not only to the students who desired merely a theoretical knowledge of 
the subject, but also to the industrial classes, who sought to make prac- 
tical application of the information obtained. He proposed to make 
chemistry a part of the curriculum of a liberal education, and he suc- 
ceeded in attracting, by the eclat of his experiments, students of all 
classes, whom he afterward retained by directing their minds from 
these lower objects to the beauty and precision of the higher concep- 
tions of natural philosophy. Xo one contributed more to popularizing 
the atomic theory of Dalton, which he considered a most happy hypoth- 
esis. Having studied in England, he retained a taste for large appara- 
tus, in which his fortune allowed him to indulge; his voltaic batteries 
were without a rival on the continent. But while his laboratory was 
English, the constitution of his mind, on the contrary, led him to adopt 
the ideas of Lavoisier and the doctrines of the French Academy. 

His countryman and friend. Dr. Marcet, a chemist of distinction, liv- 
ing in Loudon, came to pass a winter in Switzerland. He could not 
endure this preference for the school of Paris, and endeavored to con- 
vert the select audience Gaspard Ue La Rive collected about him to the 
Ideas of the Loudon school, especially to those of Davy, whose renown 
at that time was world-wide. The pupils of the chemical course had, 
therefore, the singular good fortune of having two professors, each of 
whom discoursed in turn ui)on the same subject, explaining the views to 
which he gave the preference. The two teachers, stimulated by opposition, 
gradually advanced from the ordinary conventional and classic grounds 
of instruction to heights where detinite thought commences to waver 
into nebulous speculation. These lectures, which amounted to academic 
sessions, awakened the curiosity and excited the enthusiasm of the audi- 
ence, who, while divided in opinion, were always united in praise of the 
ardor and mental activity of the two friends. 

Gaspard D(^ La Rive was alfable, benevolent, paternal, and good- 
humored. His joy in the success of a well-conducted experiment, his 
satisfaction when he felt himself understood, was indicated in every 
lineament of his expressive countenance ; and, after listening to the good 
man, his auditors were surprised to find that, although his discourse 
had been entirely of chemistry, they felt themselves better, as Avell as 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 187 

knew themselves wiser, from the sympathy awakened by the glow of his 
lecture. Besides, no one could be indifferent to the moral example dis- 
played by this, the first syndic, the chief of state, the possessor of a 
large patrimonial fortune, who was thus laborious in the discharge of a 
daily duty, without other motive than the love of science — lor no other 
recompense than the respect accorded to noble and unselfish conduct. 
Those favorites of fortune who pass their days in the pursuit of idle 
pleasure, have no idea of the rational enjoyment to be derived from the 
pursuit of knowledge or the disinterested instruction of youth. Were 
an entire aristocracy similarly disposed, leading its followers through 
the learning of ancient times and the science of the present, what con- 
quests would be made in the domains of intelligence; conquests which 
would necessitate no violation of right nor infliction of wrong, would 
bring loss or distress to none, but benefit to all. 

During the long wars of the revolution and of the empire, Geneva 
rendered great service to the scientific world by the publication of a 
review which her extended commercial relations and the cosmopolitan 
habits of her people supplied with abundant information upon all sub- 
jects, and which was edited by a distinguished physicist, M. Pictet, 
under the title Bihliotlieque Britanniqne. It was by means of this period- 
ical that the works of the English scientists became known over the 
continent; and through the personal influence of the eminent men who 
assisted in its compilation, it retained long after peace was established 
the monopoly of the earliest foreign intelligence. In its pages Arago, 
who was on a visit to Geneva, in 1820, first learned of the great discovery 
of Oersted, the action exerted by the electric current of the voltaic pile 
upon the magnetic needle. At that time it was known that two sub- 
stances could act upon each other, combining and producing changes in 
their properties, exhibiting phenomena which constitute an essential part 
of chemistry, but no one had ever seen what was then called an impon- 
derable fluid act upon another. Light produced no effect upon heat, and 
neither acted upon electricity. Oersted, however, announced that elec- 
tricity could be made to act upon magnetism. A new science, with the 
most remarkable practical applications, of which the electric telegraph 
is only one example, was developed from this fruitful germ. All who 
assisted in establishing the genuineness of this wonderful discovery 
were greatly impressed by it, and no one felt inclined to contradict the 
grave comment of Pierre Prevost, the author of the theory of the un- 
stable equilibrium of radiant heat : Novus reruni nascitur ordo. 

Arago, on his return to Paris, thus speaks of the event : " Professor 
De La Eive, of Geneva, who has himself discovered many curious phe- 
nomena with the powerful battery in his possession, allowed me to wit- 
ness his verification of the experiments of M. Oersted before j\IM. 
Prevost, Pictet, Th. de Saussure, Marcet, de Candolle, &c., and I was 
entirely convinced of the accuracj' of the principal facts stated by the 
Danish philosopher." I am, I believe, the sole survivor of this histor- 



188 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

ical scene, iu which I took part as one of the et ccctera of Arago, aud I 
shall never forget the powerful impression produced upon those who 
■were present. Nearly all came with the conviction that Oersted was 
the dupe of some illusion ; but they saw the magnetic needle obey the 
action of the electric current, move iu one direction when the conduct- 
iug-wire of the battery was placed above it, and in the contrary direc- 
tion when placed below it, and were convinced that these effects could 
be attributed to no external agitation, since they were i>roduced in the 
vacuum of the air-pump, as well as in the open air, aud ceased when a 
slip of wood was substituted for the magnetic needle. 

Ampere, in Paris, entered upon the investigation of this phenomenon 
with great enthusiasm, and having, by dint of earnest and persevering 
thought, arrived at general conceptions, he deduced from these infer- 
ences, which he immediately proceeded to verif}- by actual experiments, 
emi)loyiug for the purpose all the resources of practical mechanics. The 
discoveries that followed week after week in rapid succession excited 
the unbounded admiration of Gaspard De La Rive, and no sooner had 
the Academy of Sciences of Paris announced some new inference of 
Ampere than the watch-making establishments of Geneva, under the 
direction of De La Eive, constructed the delicate apparatus conceived 
by the illustrious French physicist to verify his deductions, and varied 
the form so as to bring it within the means of the smallest laboratory. 
If in this De La Eive was animated solely by a love of science, he was 
amply rewarded. 

Anguste De La Rive, excited first by sympathy- with his father, and 
afterward by individual interest in the new facts brought to light, deter- 
mined to devote his life to the study of electricity. Born on the 9th of 
October, 1801, he was at the time of these researches a student iu the uni- 
versity, but shortly after pret)ared resolutely and with success to compete 
for the chair of general physics left vacant by Pierre Pre vost. Only twen- 
ty-oneyears of age, and aspiriugto take theplaceof a professor well known 
throughout Europe, he was obliged to face a jury composed of sixty-six 
judges, that is to say, of all the professors of the academy, and all the mem- 
bers of the venerable company intrusted with the direction of the ecclesias- 
tical affairs of Geneva. The academy was at that time a powerful cor- 
poration. Closely united with the church, it was considered the first 
educational establishment, and held control over all the other schools 
of the canton. It constituted a state within the state, and extended 
its jurisdiction even to politics and the affairs of the rei)uL)lic. The 
authority with which it was invested was founded upon traditional laws, 
aud its functions were highly respected. Its professors, select men, 
were all capable of serious work and prolonged application. Very 
poorly remunerated for their services, their expenses far exceeded their 
emoluments, but they valued the prestige of a professorshij), a truh 
magisterial oflice, much more than its material profits. The higl 
character of the political instruction attracted to the academy the rich 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 189 

and noble families of the country, and tlie taste for letters and science 
it promoted, with the habit of devotion to their culture, was transmitted 
from generation to generation, enabling the school of Geneva to main- 
tain a high position among the most renowned universities of Europe. 
It was a source of intellectual activity, and a center of light, such as 
is supported only by great effort in countries of much larger extent than 
Switzerland. 

As soon as the discovery of Oersted was announced, Ampere offered 
the following explanation : The frictional electricity, or that developed 
by rubbing glass, long known, is a fluid in repose, and constitutes stat- 
ical electricity. The electricity of the voltaic pile is this same fluid iu 
motion in the direction of the axis of the conductors, and this is dynam- 
ical electricity. Again, this same fluid circulating around the molecules 
of a bar of iron or steel, in a plane perpendicular to the axis which 
united the two extremities, is magnetism. To give a material illustration 
of these forces, the water which moistens the surface of a solid body 
may represent statical electricity, the water which flows through an 
aqueduct dynamical electricity, and that which passes in the turns of 
an xVrchimedian screw, magnetism. 

On the 4th of September, 1820, Arago announced to the French 
Academy the facts whose confirmation he had witnessed at Geneva, 
and on the 25th of the same month Ampere read his valuable memoir, 
which alone would have given his name one of the highest places iu the 
history of science. His theory of the principles of electro-magnetism 
was founded upon his fundamental experiment that two voltaic currents 
in the same direction attract each other, and, on the contrary, repel each 
other when they are iu opposite directions — a phenomenon he had fore- 
seen and predicted as a result of his a priori conception. To this strik 
ing proof of the truth of his theory he soon added another. He imitated 
a magnet by passing a voltaic current through a metal wire coiled into 
'1 spiral, and suspended freely in a vertical plane. This spiral was 
affected by the action of the earth like the magnetic needle, which 
Ampere explained by supposing that the lower parts of the wire, that 
is, those nearest the earth, controlled the whole. This experiment was 
also exhibited in its simplest form by suspending a rectangular wire so 
that it could move freely. When a voltaic current was passed through 
this, it arranged itself at right angles to the direction of the magnetic 
needle. Now Gaspard De La Rive removed the lower horizontal part, 
and the remainder of the wire was as much affected by the terrestrial 
influence as when the rectangle was complete. 

The explanation of Ampere was thus shown to be incorrect, and his 
theory for a time lost its best support. His state of mind under the 
influence of this disappointment bordered on derangement. When alone, 
he passed hour after hour in j)rofound meditation ; and when with his 
family-, pursued the avocations of life in a sort of somnambulism, obliv- 
ious of everything around him. At length, however, in a moment of 



190 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

inspiration, the truth dawned upon him, and delivered him from this state 
of distraction. He caught sight of tiie ])roper solution of the problem, 
and in the experimental verification of this, Auguste De La Kive came to 
his aid, and by his ready invention reduced the phenomenon to its 
simplest elements. He removed one by one the sides of the rectangle, 
and reduced it at last to a single vertical wire, freely suspended, which, 
when the voltaic current passed through it, was as sensible to the action 
of the earth as the entire rectangle. These delicate experiments so in- 
terested Ampere that he came from Paris to Presinge, the country res- 
idence of De La Eive, to witness them, and to perfect the explanation to 
which he had given so much thought. 

The memoir of the young physicist on the subject contains not only 
the new results he had obtained, but also the learned and decisive 
formula by which Ampere connected them with his theory, now com- 
plete and triumphant. 

Thus in the very commencement of his career the name of Auguste 
De La Rive was associated with one of the most interesting episodes in 
thedevelopmentofthetheoryof Ampere, and his first investigations placed 
him at once in the focus to which all the intelligence of the age was 
directed. They not only brought him into relation with Ampere, but 
prepared the way for the life-long friendship which afterward united 
him with Faraday, who already, grateful to his father for early recog- 
nition and encouragement under peculiar circumstances, was predis- 
posed to regard him with favor. When Davy vs as making his admirable 
investigations in regard to the voltaic battery. Great Britain and 
France were engaged in a desperp/te contest. The first class of the 
Listitute, however, considering the field of science and the pursuit of 
truth above the prejudices occasioned by national quarrels, awarded to 
the English philosopher the prize offered in the department of electricity 
by Napoleon. Although the countries were then at open war, Davy 
shortly after received permission to visit Auvergne, in order to study 
the extinct volcanoes of that province, and was also allowed to go to 
Italy and continue his researches on volcanoes in action. In this court- 
eous exception, France set an example eminently worthy to be followed 
by all civilized nations. The passport Davy received included himself, 
his wife, and one servant. Faraday, eager to acquire knowledge, did 
not hesitate to accept the latter position. The young savant was unob- 
served in his new capacity while in Paris, as lie did not speak a word 
of Frencli, but it was quite otherwise at Presinge, where Davy remained 
some time. Gaspard De La Rive, observing his isolation, addressed 
some kind words to him during a hunting excursion. Discovering 
immediately that he was by no means an ordiLaiy servant, an explana- 
tion followed, and he was requested to take the place in the family, at 
the table of his host, which his true position and talent deserved. 
Davy, however, while he did not object to this arrangement when he 
was absent, insisted that in his presence the subordinate position 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 191 

assumed sboulcl be maintained. Tbis simple incident uiigbt bave 
made but little impression upon Faraday, bad it not brougbt into strong 
contrast tbe pride of Davy and tbe affable cordiality of Gaspard De 
La Eive. 

Even genius does not excuse pride or pardon exclusiveness. Davy, 
satiated witb praise and loaded witb bonors, but lacking tbe sympatby 
of bis countrymen, passed tbe last years of bis life on tbe continent, 
and came to Geneva, to terminate sorrowfully, in a foreign country, bis 
days of lassitude and ennui ; wbile, on tbe otber band, wben Faraday, 
endowed witb tbe modesty wbicb cbarms and tbe kindness wbicb 
attracts, approacbed bis end, tbe savants of tbe entire world evinced 
their affection for bim ; tbe most eminent personages of England testi- 
fied tbeir respect ; bis death was a source of universal regret, and bis 
memory, cherished in all hearts, is still honored at tbe Eoyal Institution 
of London, in the amphitheater, tbe scene of bis triumphs, by an annual 
and imposing ceremony presided over by tbe Prince of Wales. What 
a contrast is tbis ! 

As tbe scientific career of Gaspard De La Eive ended and that of his 
son commenced, a new era commenced, fraught witb ideas to enlighten, 
agitate, and even trouble the world. The father bad witnessed only 
tbe prelude to the great changes which were to take i^lace, but wel- 
comed with joy the new dawn. The son, after laboring with ardor and 
success in the unveiling of truth, at the close of his life contemplated, 
with sadness as well as pleasure, tbe unexpected consequences of the 
discoveries in which he had taken an active part. 

A half a century ago science, although full of promise to those who 
sought to penetrate its mysteries, did not appeal to the common mind. 
Its language was little understood even by those who held the destinies 
of nations in their bands. Its demonstrations and discoveries were 
regarded by the public witb a careless eye and considered of no impor- 
tance. Soon, however, under its influence, rapid vessels, impelled by 
steam, traversed the sea; railroads crossed the continents ; thought cir- 
culated from one hemisphere to another through the electric telegraph ; 
the beet-root of tbe frozen regions rivaled the sugar-cane of tbe south; 
gas lighted the streets ; fossil remains fertilized arid ground, and the 
colors from coaloil vied with the fresh tints of the flowers ; while the sail- 
ing-vessels lying idle in the ports, the forsaken stage-coach, the deserted 
roads, tbe laborer deprived of employment, were otber but equally forci- 
ble witnesses to the irresistible power of tbe practical application of the 
principles which govern the universe. At the same time iron and steel 
were perfected and produced in abundance ; powder and other fulmi- 
nating substances were rendered manageable ; rude and inefficient 
weapons of' war were converted into large and powerful engines of 
destruction ; and in view of houses in ruins, crops destroyed, and the 
multiplied graves of the dead, it was impossible longer to question the 



192 EULOGY OX AKTIIUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

importance of those investigations and discoveries which had once been 
despised. 

Again, a new conception of the nniverse, based upon the existence of 
atoms, the latest representatives of matter, and upon the vibrations of 
the ethereal medium, the latest symbols of force, induced a certain 
school to revive doctrines which, originating in Greece, were translated 
by Lucretius into harmonious verse in order to convert the voluptuous 
aristocracy of Eometo the philosophy of Epicurus. The Latin poet ex- 
claims in his antique materialism, " He wakes not again who sleeps 
with the dead ; we are only the temporary i)roprietors of life and not its 
owners. When the body perishes, the soul also is decomposed ; it dis- 
solves as the limbs crumble into dust. The soul dies entirely' with the 
body, and in vain might the earth be mingled with the sea, and the sea 
with the sky, in one frightful tumult — nothing can ever awaken it.*' 

Modern materialism, content with reviving the doctrines of Epicurus 
and Lucretius, considers the world as the fortuitous production of the 
arrangement of atoms ; man as the highest development of the natural 
evolution of organic forms ; life as a spontaneous modification of force ; 
birth as the commencement of a phenomenon, death as its end. When, 
in the light of this philosophy, justice is only a social convention, con- 
science the fruit of education ; charity, friendship, love, only varied 
forms of selfishness, those intrusted with the care of human souls should 
acknowledge the terrible power of this contemned science. 

The scientific conceptions of the human mind, of great importance as 
expressions of generalizations, are the result of ideas derived from our 
present understanding of the phenomena of matter and force, but cannot 
be considered as absolute truths. Lavoisier, studying chemical actions, 
the balance in hand, i)roved, it is true, that in each of these, the weight of 
the substances produced is equal to that of the substances employed. Let 
us accept, then, this discovery as a philosophical truth : that matter has 
weight; that man has never created nor destroyed anything that has 
weight ; in nature, since the universe received its present form, noth- 
ing has been lost, nothing created that has weight; matter changes its 
place, its aspect, and condition, but it does not perish. Is it the same in 
regard to force! While always remaining imponderable, will it also be 
variable in its manifestations, perpetual in its activity ? Man powerless 
to create matter, is he equally unable to i)roduce force ? Auguste De La 
Rive has largely assisted in proving that this is the case, and, in so doing, 
has traced to its highest philosophical consequences one of the most hum- 
ble experiments of the laboratory, that of Galvani. Two plates, one of 
zinc the other of copper, produce a sensation when an organ is touched 
with their two free extremities ; the tongue is sensible of a taste ; the eye 
perceives a light ; the ear is conscious of sound. By increasing the 
number of these metallic couples, extending their surface, and plunging 
them into a saline or acid litpiid, Yolta constructed his celebrateil bat- 
tery, by which he produced light and heat comparable with those of the 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 193 

suu, a chemical power superior to that of the volcano, a magnetism 
equal to that of the earth, and physiological phenomena previduslj' con- 
sidered as belonging only to manifestations of life. Can it be supposed 
that all these forces spring from nothing, and that the two metals which 
produce them remain unchanged in their nature, weight, and other 
qualities ? 

German science, still involved in the obscurities of the philosophy of 
nature, was of this opinion, notwithstanding the experiments of M. 
Becquerel, sr. Auguste De La Eive thought otherwise ; he did not so 
readily accord to man the faculty of deriving, from nothing, either mat- 
ter or motion. His mind revolted against such an assumption. He 
proved, in fact, that no electricity was manifested if one of the two. 
metals was not oxidized ; that is to say, if it had not undergone chemi- 
cal change. The electric current is slight when the chemical action is 
feeble ; intense when it is powerful. The electric circuit starts Irom 
the metal attacked and passes over to the other. If both metals are 
affected at once, the electric circuit begins in the one in which the 
chemical action is strongest. Change the nature of the medium, and 
you may reverse at will the action and consequently the direction of 
the current. The latter experiment is decisive. If the contact of two 
different metals is sufficient to create the electric current, this ought 
always to proceed in the same direction. If this current is the result of 
chemical action, it should, on the contrary, move sometimes in one 
direction, sometimes in the other, starting from the metal attacked and 
proceeding toward the one not affected, as was proved by Auguste De 
La Rive. If we measure the electricity obtained, we ought also to note 
the chemical force expended. We create nothing; we only transform. 
Such is the theory of the pile. Faraday devoted much time to the con- 
sideration of these truths, but we can do honor to the Genevese physi- 
cist while acknowledging our indebtedness to the great English phil- 
philosopher. 

If the burning of the coal develops the force of the steam-engine, 
the zinc consumed produces the power of the Voltaic pile. The battery 
no more creates the electricity that it utilizes than Watt's engine pro- 
duces the heat that it employs ; that electricity comes entirely from the 
meral burned by the acids. Pursuing this idea, Auguste De La Kive 
measured the heat which was manifested in the different elements of a 
battery, in full activity, and found that it did not exceed that produced 
by the chemical action exerted upon the metal attacked — a conclusion 
confirmed by the learned dean of the faculty of Marseilles. It is, then, 
evident that man creates neither electricity, magnetism, heat, nor light ; 
he draws these forces from the reservoirs in which they are hidden and 
in which they were stored without his aid. 

We insist that in nature, as she appears to us, nothing is lost, and 
nothing is created of that which has weight; we dispose of matter as 
we choose in order to produce chemical combinations ad infinitum ; 
13 s 



194 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

forces are only tbe causes of movements, which we transform, one into 
the other at will. Well, is this to say that the world has no other sov- 
ereign than man, and that he rules as master? Let us see if this is so. 

Newton considered light, heat, electricity, and magnetism as so nmny 
distinct imponderable fluids. This opinion served as a guide to all the 
investigations of the eighteenth century and of the commencement of 
the nineteenth. It was the expression of the truth of the time — was, so 
to say, the fashion — and it had its fanatical followers, in the first rank of 
whom was Voltaire. It is now superseded by a theory indicated by 
Descartes and Huyghens, and which Newton undertook to develop, but 
abandoned, perhaps because of the difficulties it offered to calculation. 
This supposes the existence throughout the universe of an elastic, 
ethereal medium, that is to say, an exceedingly subtile substance, in 
which float the atoms of ponderable matter. Acting one upon the other, 
or through internal agitation, these atoms determine, in the ether by 
which they are surrounded and penetrated, undulations more or less 
extended, more or less rapid. These vibrations of tbe ethereal medium 
constitute light and heat, while electricity and magnetism are the man- 
ifestations of the medium itself. Ponderable atoms, an elastic ethereal 
medium, and the vibrations produced in the latter by the atoms ; such 
is the present conception of the universe. It is simple, true, perhaps, 
said Auguste De LaEive, but who knows what will be thought of it a 
hundred years from now ? How is it possible to believe that af :er 
remaining in ignorance and error in regard to these great subjects from 
the commencement of the world, man, in less than a century," could 
acquire complete knowledge of all that concerns them and leave noth- 
ing to be discovered by future ages? It behooves us to be more modest, 
lest our descendants laugh at our audacity. 

Among all the different manifestations of the ethereal medium, elec- 
tricity is the most constant, not only in the reactions of inanimate 
bodies, but also in the material phenomena we observe in living organ- 
isms. It was hastily inferred by some that electricity was life, but 
Auguste De La liive would not admit that life could result from this 
unconscious action of atoms upon ether. He had never seen it mani- 
fested sj)ontaneously, and believed that since its first appearance upon 
earth it had constantly been transmitted from parent to offspring. 
He considered, moreover, that human personality does not exist in the 
dust of which our bodies are composed. Is matter that obeys eternal, 
and the spirit which commands perishable? I would rather, he says, 
believe that the intelligent soul is immortal and brute matter perishable. 
lie believed the world to have been created and demonstrated «ts a fact 
of a scientific order, and, by arguments that M. Clausius afterward 
developed, that it had not always existed; that it had a beginning, and 
would have an end. 

Ampere, Faraday, and Auguste De LaEive made electricity the sub- 
ject of profound study, and it was the instrument of their greatest dis- 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 195 

coveries. They were all three very religious, aud delighted in meditat- 
ing upon subjects of a metaphysical character. The first sought to 
explain universal attraction by magnetism ; the second denied even the 
existence of matter, and considered each atom as a center of force 
whose vibrations are felt throughout the universe ; they endeavored to 
defend, against the encroachments of the partisans of physical forces 
the domain of the spirit, that something which thinks, affirms, denies, 
wills, imagines, feels, and which, free to follow its inclinations, should 
render an account of its liberty. They were convinced that by such 
meditations the soul approached the supreme power, whose direct 
intervention appears like a continued creation. 

Belonging to the same school of philosophy, they enjoyed discussing 
together such questions as the following : Attraction, which sustains 
the stars in space, who knows its nature ? Affinity, which connects 
the molecules of bodies, is it not a word whose sense escapes us? 
We represent matter as composed of atoms; are we sure that these 
atoms exist ? The physiologist describes the phenomena of life ; does 
he know in what life consists ? The geologist, who writes the history 
of the globe of which he has only penetrated the epidermis, does he 
know its origin and end ? If man is proud of the knowledge he has 
acquired, should he not be humble in view of what he has yet to learn ? 

The publications of our associate are numerous, and attest the activity 
of his mind as well as the extent and accuracy of his information. But 
an eminent physicist, M. Soret, is preparing a, complete history of 
them in his native land, and in this article I can only notice a few of 
their principal features, and, in particular, his beautiful theory of the 
aurora borealis. 

The chronicle of Louis XI reports that, on the 23d of July, 1461, a 
meteor appeared " of such color and brilliancy that it seemed as if all 
Paris was in flames;" it adds, in consternation, "May God preserve us !" 
On the 18th of November, 1465, a similar appearance produced like 
terror. The king, Louis XI, mounted his horse aud rushed to the walls, 
and the city guard were assembled and posted. The country at that 
time was in revolt against the government, and it was supposed that 
the enemy before Paris were attempting to iire the city. 

We ourselves witnessed a similar excitement, caused by the appearance 
of the aurora, during the siege of Paris by the Prussian army. Prom 
the beginning of the night until the first actual appearance of the phe- 
nomenon, a glow was observed in the north, which gradually deepened 
into a rose-tint, and spread over half the sky. From time to time col- 
ored rays shot forth, of a deep blood-red, while spots of the same 
sanguinary hue appeared here and there above thxj city. When the 
phenomenon had reached its height, and the sky commenced to darken, 
suddenly the red color shone out again with frightful brilliancy. The 
next evening the appearance was repeated with somewhat less intensity, 
but accomi^auied by luminous white radiations toward a center near the 



196 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

constellatiou Pegasus. The inhabitants of Paris were greatly alarmed. 
They supposed that some great iuceudiary machine had beeu put in 
play, to force the walls or demoralize their defenders. A few of them, 
seeing that it was a remarkable example of the aurora borealis, sought 
in it such omens, happy or otherwise, as their excited i)atriotism sug- 
gested. 

The Aurora of the ISTorth, as Gregory of Tours called it thirteen hun- 
dred years ago, varies somewhat in aspect with the latitude. In the 
polar regions it is so common that it ceases to excite remark, and is 
often confounded with the twilight. In the center of Europe it is less 
frequent, and almost always characterized by the deep bloody hue of 
the sky, and the rays that dart like lances across it. Its appearance 
justifies the description that it seems as if two great armies, enveloped 
in fiery vapor, were engaged in mortal combat. In Calabria, where it is 
still more rare, the imagination finds in it arcades and porticoes, while 
Greece, always poetical, and very seldom honored by this celestial vis- 
itation, sees in the illuminated sky the assembly of the gods in council 
upon Olympus in the presence of Jupiter. 

How are we to account for these appearances ? Auguste De La Rive 
considered that they were produced by electrical conflicts, silent and 
mysterious, converging toward the magnetic pole of the earth. Every 
one is familiar with the electric light, whose power is exhibited in the 
light-house, on the stage, and in public illuminations. This brilliant 
phenomenon, discovered by Davy, was especially noticed by Arago, 
who declared, «j)rion, that it would oflerthe then strange spectacle of a 
flame obeying the action of a magnetic bar. Experiment confirmed his 
prediction. When this luminous arch is approached by the poles of a 
strong magnet, it is attracted or repulsed ; its curvature increases, the 
brilliancy of the flame diminishes ; it is varied by jerks and by flashes 
of colored light when silk is rubbed near it, and the arch at last breaks, 
when the curvature is so gTeat that it extends too much the surface 
passed over by the electrical discharge. A magnetic needle placed in 
the vicinity manifests, by its incessant agitation, that it is aflected by a 
strong magnetic influence. Is not this the image of the aurora polaiis 1 

Arago devoted many years to the study of the influence of the aurora 
borealis upon the magnetic needle; and often announced the appear- 
ance of the phenomenon in the north of Europe, even before it was 
manifested in France. He was too cautious, however, to hazard an 
opinion in regard to its nature. Auguste De La Rive took up the sub- 
ject — we should rather say, devoted himself to it — and among the many 
reasons for regretting the death of this illustrious savant is the loss to 
science of a work he was preparing uiK)n the polar lights, the materials 
for which he had spared no pains in collecting. The apparatus is well 
known, at least in the lecture-room, bj- means of which he reproduced 
the fundamental conditions of the phenomenon, which he considered 
due to the formation of a luminous ring in the upper regions ot the 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 197 

atmosphere, having for center the magnetic pole. By transmitting 
through a rarifled gas an electrical discharge around the pole of a 
strong magnet, he caused a luminous ring to appear, animated with a 
movement of rotation around this same pole. This experiment is so 
beautiful that it must be admired even by those physicists, now few in 
number, who consider that the aurora is derived from a source far beyond 
the terrestrial atmosphere, and attribute to it a cosmical origin. He 
writes thus to me, only a short time before the attack of illness which 
caused his death: "Assist me in defending a theory, which I believe to 
be founded upon incontestable facts, and which was advocated by Frank- 
lin and Arago when there was less evidence in its favor. The investi- 
gators who study only the brilliant and occasional auroras of our lati- 
tudes, should also take into consideration those less radiant that appear 
almost every day in the polar regions. I do not know a single observer, 
placed in our extreme northern countries, who does not support the 
views I have adopted. Surely it is much iu their favor that they are 
advocated by men who live in the midst of the phenomena; and shall 
we abandon them because they are opposed by those who witness these 
remarkable appearances only occasionally, and under the influence of 
surprise and astonishment which must more or less aflect the judgment 
concerning them 1 " 

At the equator, the silent magnetic agitations are replaced by electri- 
cal storms, accompanied by thunder and rain, marking, so to say, the 
course of the sun ; and if there is a constant manifestation of auroral 
phenomena, more or less distinct at each pole, there is always an orange 
tint, of greater or less intensity, at some point of the equator. What 
purpose do they serve, these electric manifestations, continually exhib- 
ited throughout the atmosphere of the earth ? We are not yet in a con- 
dition to say, but De La Rive has thrown much light upon the question. 

When, a hundred years ago, Priestley discovered oxygen, the agent 
of combustion and respiration, medicine found a valuable auxiliary, and 
enthusiasts saw iu it a means of prolonging life. The experiments of 
M. Bert, however, proved that this vital air, if inhaled into the lungs in 
a pure state, was a mortal poison. This same oxygen, as soon as it is 
electrized, shows that it is accompanied by a very odorous substance, 
blackening colored bodies, irritating violently the respiratory organs, 
and converting animal products into saltpeter. This is the ozone M 
Scuonbein, the celebrated professor of Basle, found at times in the 
atmosphere, particularly when the latter was electrized by thunder- 
clouds. Auguste De La Rive and his learned friend M. de Mariguac 
maintained that ozone is a modification of oxygen, a conclusion ren- 
dered incontestable by our two eminent associates, IVUVI. Fr6my and 
Becquerel, jr. 

If pure oxygen is deadly in its effects, mingled with the air that sur- 
rounds us, it supports life; and if oxygen, ozenized, is a poison, in mod- 



198 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

erate doses, it purifies the air and fertilizes the soil broken by the plow, 
giviug to its products their agricultural significance. 

If it is chance that provides the atmosphere with only just enough 
of this useful yet dangerous oxygen to support respiration; that brings 
into being ozone to destroy the deleterious influences which threaten our 
lives, and to prepare the nourishment necessary for the plants which 
supply us with food ; if it is this same chance which fixes the limits to 
the concentration of oxygen, rendering almost immutable the quantity 
of inert gas mingled in the air that we breathe; which renders possible 
and durable for centuries the existence of man upon the earth, then we 
must conclude, with Auguste De La Rive, that chance is very intelligent; 
indeed, so intelligent as to deserve another name. 

A flourishing industry, which was commenced about thirty five years 
ago, under the auspices of the Academy of Sciences — that is, electro- 
plating — originated in the experiments and practical applications of our 
respected associate. Up to that time the only mode known of gilding 
bronze was by the use of mercury. This process produced a good and 
solid surface, but was fatal to the workmen, as their hands were brought 
in contact with the dangerous metal, and their lungs exposed to the 
action of the mercurial vapors during the heating of the articles to be 
gilded. The old academy oft'ered a prize to any one who would obviate 
the danger attached to this industry, but it was unclaimed. The pres- 
ent academy was more fortunate. But, if the industry is indebted for 
its stimulation to the galvanic process, we should not forget that the 
first pieces gilded by electricity came from the hands of the sagacious 
and disinterested physicist whose labors we are contemplating. Thanks 
especially to him, we are si)ared the distressing spectacle formerly pre- 
sented by hundreds of unfortunate workmen, involuntary witnesses of 
the deleterious effects of mercury, who, trembling in every limb, were 
diseased alike in mind and body. 

Auguste De La Rive was a lover and patron of the fine arts, and it was 
in some sort under his direction that the celebrated painter of Alpine 
scenery, Calame, executed his chefd'ceuvre, Mount Rose, the most beauti- 
ful ornament of the parlor of the scientist. It represents a rugged, lonely 
scene, a high i>lateau in the mountains, without verdure or any trace of 
the presence of man. In the background is the Alps, in the foreground 
a small, dark lake and some rocks ; that is all. But it is nature in her 
majesty, flooded with the light and enveloped in the pure transparent 
atmosphere of the mountains — an unadorned exhibition of her grandeur, 
aftecting powerfully the imagination. 

Our philosopher was never tired of the beautiful spectacle presented 
by the effect of the setting sun upon Mont Blanc, and was led to some 
interesting scientific observations of the phenomenon through his ad- 
miration of its picturesque aspect. At the moment when the sun dis- 
appears from the horizon, the valley is covered with shade, and the 
mountain is gradually obscured from the base to near the summit. This 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 199 

alone, for some time, remains illuminated, and, suddenly, while the rest 
of earth sinks into deei)er shadow, takes a bright orange tint, sometimes 
a bloody or fiery red, and appears like an immense meteor, fixed, incandes- 
cent, ijot belonging to earth, but suspended in the sky. Soon the ever- 
increasing shade invades even this icy pinnacle. Its outlines grow indis- 
tinct, and its color fades to a cadaverous hue. Like the change from 
life to death in the human fiice is this rapid transformation from the 
brilliant tints of departing day to the livid tone which follows upon the 
forehead of this giant of rock and snow. No one can witness the 
solemn spectacle for the first time without profound emotion ; and the 
instinctive silence that falls upon the spectator is like the prelude to a 
prayer. As he turns sorrowfully away, and asks if all is over, suddenly, 
as if in answer, the mountain is colored anew with a pale rose tint, 
the reflection of its former splendor. Is the colossus about to revive? 
No ; this fugitive tint is soon effaced, and darkness covers the scene. 

The rosy glow, the day's farewell to the snow-clad peaks of these high 
mountains, is only the reproduction in a particular form of the general 
effects of the setting sun upon clouds. But what is the cause of. the second 
coloration ? Our associate, after many observations of the summit of Mont 
Blanc, most frequently subjected to the phenomenon, attributed it to the 
reflection of the last red rays from vaporous strata accumulated in the up- 
per regions of the atmosphere. He studied the nature of these vapors, and 
invented an apparatus for measuring the variations in the transparency 
of the atmosphere, which are closely observed by the mountaineers, as they 
judge from them what weather to expect. If the air is perfectly clear, and 
distant objects plainly visible,the mountains seeming close to the observer, 
and the sky of a deep-blue color, they will tell you that rain is near, 
though there may be no other sign of its approach. If the weather is 
decidedly fine, the air is not perfectly clear, but is pervaded by a bluish 
vapor, the sky is moderately blue, and mountains seem far away. 

Auguste De La Eive supposed that these vapors, characteristic of 
fine weather, were composed of mineral and organic particles, whicli 
float in the air as long as they are dry, but fall to the ground when sur- 
charged with moisture. They are so abundant, that they take from the 
air its transparency, which is restored when they disappear. The in- 
sects which buzz about us are governed by the same law. If the swal- 
lows fly close to the ground at the approach of rain, and high up in tbe 
air in fine weather, it is because in the first case the insects upon which 
they feed are weighed down by moisture, while, in the second, relieved 
of this burden, they mount higher into space. 

The ardor of Auguste De La Eive for the study of electricity could not 
be satisfied with only the labors of the laboratory. He conceived the plan 
of a work which would make known all the results obtained in every 
branch of this department of physics. Familiar with every science, 
and speaking all languages, he hoped, by uniting and tracing to their 
source the materials scattered through the periodicals of different coun- 



200 EULOGY OX ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

tries, to fiiruish geometers the means for the basis for a new and better 
theory of electricity. The three volumes of his Treatise npon Theoretical 
and Practical Electricity contain a statement of all the facts observed, 
with the comment ot savaus and his own opinion in regard to each one 
of them. There never was a more impartial compiler nor disinterested 
narrator. The work shows throughout with what perseverance each 
individual question was examined, and the care with which they were 
all subordinated to a general and high order of ideas. " I construct," 
said he, " a ladder to the top of which 1 shall never climb, but, as a con- 
scientious workman, I wish those who shall mount it to find every round 
of good material, solid, and without defect." 

The Bibliotheqiie Universelle de Geneve numbered Auguste De La Eive 
among its most faithful contributors for nearly half a century. He for 
a long time directed with indefatigable zeal not only the scientific divis- 
ion considered as his natural domain, but also the literary department, iu 
which he was at first regarded as a usurper. The public acknowledged 
that, in assuming the control of the perio(iical, he insured tor it an impor- 
tant scientific value, but questioned the wisdom of intrusting the literary 
part to the direction of a savant, considering that the study of science 
tends to lessened sensibility to the delicate charm of letters. But never 
had this portion of the review been as replete with matter of an inter- 
esting and entertaining character. Many of the charming productions 
of Toi)pfer first saw in it the light of day, and it this an)iable artist man- 
ifested great vigor in his humorous sketches, Auguste De La Eive also 
showed his good taste iu selecting and appreciating the merit of these 
eliusions. 

It was not without reflection that Auguste De La Eive partially aban- 
doned his laboratory and favorite studies, to devote a portion of his time, 
talents, and fortune to the support of a scientific and literary publica- 
tion which, from the beginning of the century, sustained the moral and 
intellectual authority of Geneva. He was convinced that the Biblio- 
tkdgue Universelle exercised, like the Edinburgh Eeview, a salutary influ- 
ence. The articles selected gave full information on all the important 
questions of the day, although regarding them from a national point of 
view, and thus, while imparting knowledge, kept patriotism alive. His 
comments upon literature and art, full of elevated sentiment and respect 
for human understanding, left a very pleasing impression upon the mind 
of the reader. Nothing was admitted into the journal w hich could not be 
read aloud in the parlor, or could cause uneasiness to the mother of a fam- 
ily. Somewhat of puritanism in ideas, and a certain austerity in conduct, 
was not displeasing to DeLa Eive. He admitted that, if carried to excess, 
these qualities became ridiculous; but their absence he thought led to dis- 
order. A small country, he said, can exist only under the double condition 
of having a fixed faith in certain principles, and in conforming the life to 
theui; it must have a physiognomy of its own, and keep it intact; must be 
itself, and not everybody else; must preserve its own identity, a very diflfi- 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTS DE LA RIVE. 201 

cult matter when railroads tend to mingle all the world into one commu- 
nity — impossible, unless from time to time some voice of authority brings 
into harmony the discordant elements of society. 

In 1815, when Switzerland regained her ancient liberty, Geneva be- 
came the temporary abode of many illustrious persons politically dis- 
tinguished. Some came to enjoy the natural beauty of the shores of Lake 
Leman, or to rest for a few days in this celebrated city, placed at the 
confluence of the routes from the north of Europe, from France, and 
from Italy; others, banished from their native land, sought an asylum 
among its hospitable inhabitants. Never was there a more singular ming- 
ling of the people of every nation, of the representatives of all the conti- 
nental countries, many of whom had met before on the field of battle, 
and of England, which had been separated from the rest of Europe for 
more than thirty years, with the sons of the East, unmistakable in 
their peculiar type of humanity. In the streets every kind of costume 
appeared, every language was spoken; in the social assemblies every 
nationality fraternized. 

Meanwhile the Genevese legislators, intrusted with the formation of 
a constitution for the canton, and anxious to obliterate all traces of the 
long alliance with the forms of the French administration, found, in the 
Parliament of England and its controlling aristocracy, the beau-ideal of 
government. Political jjarty-spirit soon attained as great a degree of 
intensity in this as in countries of much larger extent. Everybody was 
in favor of a constitutional government; but while with some, veritable 
tories, the principle of authority was supreme, with others, true whigs, 
the idea of liberty was uppermost, and, as usual in such cases, neither 
side was willing to make concessions. Gaspard De La Rive, first syndic 
of the republic, was at the head of the conservative division, while his 
sou, in common with most of the young men, belonged to the liberal 
party, prominent among whom was a former member of the French 
Academy, Simond. de Sismondi. 

Auguste De La Eive was too ardent in temperament and too truly pa- 
triotic in feeling to be indifferent to the political events which later 
threatened the tranquillity of his country. Still professing liberal i)rin- 
ciples, as in the days of his youth, he determined to resist the encroach- 
ments of a turbulent and oppressive democracy, and became in his turn 
the leader of a new conservative party. 

After the revolution in Geneva, and at the time of the Sondeibuud 
war, he resigned his professorship and retired from public life. Still, 
when, on the annexation of Savoy to France, some uneasiness was felt 
by the Helvetic government, he was sent to London, as minister pleni- 
potentiary and envoy extraordinary, to guard the interests of the Con- 
federation. He was treated by the Queen with the highest distinction, 
and on his return to his native laud received a new mark of confidence ; 
he was made a member of the select assembly for the revision of the 



202 EULOGY OX ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

coustitutioii of Geueva. And wlien his term of ofiQce was completed, 
he resigned entirely all share in the government of his country. 

He could not forgive a revolution which could tempt from the culture 
of intelligence the vigorous offspring of noble and opulent families, to 
immerse them in business affairs. The recognized superiority of his 
native city over many others greater in extent and population, he ex- 
plained, not by its position upon the shores of Lake Lemau, nor by the 
beauty of its surroundings, nor yet by its great trade in watches. He 
attributed all its Importance to the brilliant assembly of thinkers, phi- 
losophers, writers, and savants who had rendered it illustrious. Vol- 
taire, Itousseau, INIadame de Stael, for instance, would never be forgot- 
ten ; and tbe beautiful investigations of Charles Bonnet in natural phi- 
losophy ; the discoveries of Tremblay in regard to polyps ; of the blind 
Huber concerning bees, and his son in respect to the habits of the ant ; 
the Alpine journeys of Horace Benedict de Saussure, one of the found- 
ers of geological science ; the works of Senebier and of Theodore de 
Saussure upon the physiology of plants, could not be effaced from the 
great book of human knowledge without injuring the intellectual pros- 
l)ects of future ages. The academy and the venerable ecclesiastic com- 
pany had been the soul of Geneva, and he could not see without un- 
easiness their influence diminish. He was right. Alexander victorious 
did not save Macedonia from forgetfulness ; Athens, so often invaded, 
has survived her misfortunes, and will always live in the memory of 
man. War may make slaves and reduce to impotency the limbs of the 
vanquished, but she cannot touch the human mind nor the imprint it 
leaves upon the religion, philosophy, letters, science, and art of its 
masters. 

Geneva, like Florence, considered that her real existence lay in the 
noble minds that made her famous, but the fears of Be La Eive for her 
future were without foundation. To the wise generation of the last 
century and the commencement of the present, to which he belonged, 
has succeeded a people full of vigor and worthy to occupy the palace 
raised by the ])rovident city in honor of science. In this privileged 
country, thanks to the example of our associate and of his assistant 
laborers, as well as to the liberal institutions inspired by him, the youth- 
ful representatives of noble and ancient families are more ready to look 
upon fortune as a means of advancing knowledge than to value learning 
as an assistance in the acquirement of material prosperity. 

The interests of Auguste De La Kive were not all centered in Geneva. 
A large share of his thoughts and affections were reserved for Presinge, 
an estate of considerable extent, ancient tenure of the dukes of Savoy. 
The family of La Kive had been in possession of this patriarchal domain 
for several centuries, and for generations the surrounding agricultural 
population were benefited by the influence of its amiable representa- 
tives. Gaspard De La Kive and his son no doubt did much to foster the 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 203 

hatred of display, the active beuevoleuce, absence of pride, and aversion 
to pedantry, which are characteristic in Savoy of the habits and manners 
of the gentleman. 

His quiet life in this peaceful retreat was troubled by the material 
speculations of the age, which he regarded with more solicitude than 
most of his countrymen. Attached to the truths of the Christian reli- 
gion, he was a member of the Protestant Church of Geneva, but his 
respect was great for the Eoman Catholic faith, which was professed by 
many of his relations and friends, and by the larger part of the resi- 
dent population in the neighborhood of Presinge, among whom he lived, 
loving and beloved, sharing all their interests, moral and religious, even 
to the building of their church. In what times of religious disorder we 
live, he said, and how science is implicated. In our youth, full of enthu- 
siasm for her, we little thought a day would come when she would deny 
the assertion of Bossuet, "Were man openlj^ to declare himself God, 
his pride would revolt at such presumption; but to call himself God, 
and yet feel himself to be mortal, is to shame even the blindest arro- 
gance." 

The spirit of tolerance, so natural to our associate, led him to avoid 
everything that would wound the convictions of others ; but there came 
a time when to keep silent was to deny his faith, and he did not wish 
the world to think that those who advocated materialism in the name of 
science were sure of the approbation and complicity of all savants. It 
is by no means the case, he said, with decision, and it is our duty to say 
so. Science is great ; her role is glorious ; but her domain is circum- 
scribed. She commands matter, but has no control over mind. We can 
better explain the course of the stars than the astronomers of the time of 
Homer, but have added nothing to our knowledge of the human pas- 
sions he so vividly portrayed. Our ideas in regard to heat are more 
certain than those of Eschylus, but concerning oppression and wrong 
they have not changed since the protestations against tyranny and brutal 
force of the author of Prometheus Bound. We are better acquainted 
than Virgil with the action of the heart in the circulation of the blood, 
but have discovered no new sentiment of pity or tenderness. Man does 
not need science to sound the depths of the human soul, and the study 
of the physical forces shows that between them and the moral attributes 
there is nothing in common. 

Many associations connected De La Rive with England, formed during 
his residence as minister in that country, and with France he was united 
by friendship with many of its distinguished men, among whom were M. 
de Tocqaeville and M. de Montalembert. With Savoy and Italy ancient 
family relations had been revived and strengthened by an affectionate 
and close intimacy with his relative, the count of Cavour, who was, 
from his earliest infancy, accustomed to spend every year several weeks 
at Presinge. In early life the young savant and the future statesman 



204 EULOGY OX ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 

who was to exercise so great an iuflnence upon the destinies of Italy, 
were for a long time in perfect accord upon the ground of liberal ideas. 
Surrounded by influences unfavorable to their convictions, they enjoyed 
together the forbidden fruit ; and sometimes in the evening, in the par- 
lor of Pr6singe, while their elders slept by the fireside, would scandalize 
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of 
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear 
of awakening those in whom these views would have excited the utmost 
consternation. In later years this union of sentiment was gradually 
dissolved, Cavour, through struggling with absolute governments, be- 
came more and more a partisan of liberty, while De La Eive, disgusted 
with the unreasonable demands of democracy, united himself more and 
more closely with the conservative party. Their friendship, however, 
was never disturjbed, and if the bust of the statesman occupied in the 
parlor of our associate a place of distinction opposite that of the cele- 
brated Eossi, on the other hand Cavour never could speak of the savant 
except in terms of tender affection and profound respect. 

M. Auguste De La Rive was, to an unusual degree, favored in the cir- 
cumstances of his life. The scion of an illustrious family, of a spotless 
name, educated by a father of large heart and noble understanding, mas- 
ter of a fortune which allowed free pursuit of his studies, and residing 
in a country where he was appreciated at his proper vakie, he passed 
his days in unbroken prosperity and in the quiet enjoyment of the pleas- 
ures derived from a love for letters and the fine arts, the culture of 
science, the practice of benevolence, devotion to his country, and the 
joys of domestic life. When, after having long been a correspondent of 
the French Academy, he was made a member, he wrote to me, "I have 
nothing now to wish for ; my desires are more than satisfied." A portion 
of the year he passed in his city residence, the remainder of the time in 
the country at Presinge, and in both places he exercised a generous 
hospitality. Favorable as destiny had been to him in life, his death 
was followed by a series of distressing events. In one short month, his 
brother, who was united to him by ties of the tenderest affection, his 
relative and friend M. Jules Francois Pictet, one of the most eminent 
naturalists of the day, two of his sons-in-law, and Madame Quetelet, who 
in her sorrow survived him only a few days, had also passed away. As 
we visit his deserted laboratories, the scene of so many interesting discov- 
eries, and wander, in imagination, through his two abodes, so full of 
happy memories; through the silent halls whose echoes might repeat 
the noble words of one of the greatest philosophers of the century, the 
heart is oppressed with grief. But we remember that the eminently 
good man, the illustrious and venerated savant, whose presence we 
seek in vain in these now melancholy abodes of sorrow, will live forever 
in the incflaceable record of the past. Auguste De La Rive, far from 
the belief that, on leaving this world, he would sink into nothing, as the 



EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 205 

ephemeral vapor is dissipated in the rays of the sun, i^laced full confi- 
dence in a future reserved for man, in the hope of another and higher 
state of existence. There is consolation in the thought that he leaves 
behind him two sous worthy to be his successors, as well as a son-in- 
law, and three daughters, whom he regarded with great tenderness, and 
who will cherish with veneration and transmit to his descendants his 
noble example of patriotism, benevolence, and respect for labor. But 
the homage we render him is not confined to this world ; it mounts to 
the happy regions where he dwells an immortal soul, and worthy of 
his immortality. 



ON TIDES AxND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS.^ 



By Professor J. E. Hilgard, of the U. S. Coast Survey, Washington, D. C. 



Ladies AND Gentlemen: I propose to eugage your attention this 
evening with the subject of the tides of the ocean and the influence ex- 
erted by tidal currents on our harbors. I shall first briefly describe the 
phenomena of the tides as they present themselves to an observer, then 
consider the physical causes to which these phenomena are due, next 
examine more in detail the phases of the tide on our own coasts, and 
finalh^ describe the tidal hydraulics of the magnificent harbor of Kew 
YoTk. 

The most obvious change in the surface of the ocean to be noticed 
upon our shores is the alternate rising and falling regularly twice in 
every day. Closer attention will show that the tides of each day occur 
somewhat later than those of the preceding day, the average time of re- 
tardation being fifty-two minutes, and that this retardation corresponds 
to that of the moon. It will pass as a fair approximation to say, that it 
is high water at New York with a southeast moon, or similarly for New 
Castle, on the Delaware, that high water occurs when the moon is south 
In fact, so closely is the time of tide connected with the position of the 
moon, that in order to give the time of high water upon any day ap- 
proximately it is customary to state the time of high water on the days 
of the new and full moon, when the moon passes the meridian at twelve 
o'clock, nearly. This time is called the " establishment of the port." 
Then, to find the time of high water on any other day, it is only neces- 
sary to add the " establishment" to the time of the moon's meridian 
passage on that day. On closer examination, it will be found that the 
interval between the time of the moon's passage over the meridian and 
the time of high water, called the luni-tidal interval, varies with the 
moon's age very sensibly. Moreover, the elevation at high water and 
depression at low water will not always be the same, but will be great- 
est about the times of new moon and full moon, and least about the first 
and third quarters. The details of these variations will be best traced 
out in connection with the explanation of their causes, to which we will 
now proceed. 

The popular explanation of the tides, as depending on the law of gravi- 
tation, is sufficiently simple, although the complete mathematical inves- 
tigation of the subject, by which we should be enabled to predict their 
* Delivered before the American Institute, January 27, 1871, with revision. 



208 ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IX HARBORS. 

occurrence and magnitude for any place, is encompassed with difficul- 
ties, from causes to which we shall hereafter revert. 

If we conceive the earth to be wholly, or for the greater part, covered 
■with water and subject to the attraction of the sun, the force of which 
varies inversely as the square of the distance, it will be obvious, that 
while the whole earth will fall toward the sun with a velocity proportioned 
to the aggregate attraction upon its solid portions,.(\vhich is the same as 
if all the matter were collected at its center,) the water nearest to the 
sun being accelerated by a greater force, and being fluid, will approach 
the sun more rapidly than the solid core. It will thus run from all sides 
iuto a protuberance beyond the forni of equilibrium of the earth's attrac- 
tion and rotation, until the pressure of the elevated mass equals the dif- 
ference in the attraction of the sun. Moreover, a similar protuberance 
will be formed on the side opposite to the sun, since the particles of 
water, being solicited by a less force than the solid core, will fall more 
slowly toward the sun, and as it were remain behind. Nor does the fact 
that on the average the earth does not lessen its distance from the sun, in 
the least invalidate the force of this reasoning ; for the deviations from 
the tangential motion of the earth in its orbit are precisely those which 
the earth would niove through if falling toward the sun unaflected by 
any other impulse. 

The same considerations hold good in regard to the attraction of the 
moon upon the earth and the waters surrounding it ; for although we are 
in the habit of considering the moon as simply revolving about the earth, 
it must be remembered that the attraction is mutual, that both bodies 
describe orbits about their common center of gravity, and that while the 
moon obeys the attractive force of the earth, the latter equally follows 
that of the lormer, by which it is at every instant of time drawn from the 
path which it would pursue if that influence did not exist by an amount 
precisely equal to the fall corresponding to the moon's attractive force. 

As a necessary consequence of the elevation of the water in the 
regions nearest to and most remote from the attracting body, there 
must be a correspondiug depression below the mean level of the sea 
at points distant ninety degrees from the vertices of the protuberances, 
or at the sides of the earth, as seen from the sun or moon. If the latter 
bodies maintained a constant position with respect to the earth, the 
effect would therefore be to produce a distortion of figure in the ocean- 
surface, (assumed to cover the whole earth,) having the form of a slightly 
elongated ellipsoid, the two vertices of which would be the one pre- 
cisely under, the other precisely opposite to, the points at which the 
disturbing body is vertical. This, however, is not the case ; for by the 
rotation of the earth, and the motion of earth and moon in their orbits, 
the direction of the disturbing forces is constantly changing with respect 
to any point on the earth's surface. New points arrive at every instant, 
under the zenith and nadir of either luminary, and thus it is that waves 
ore produced which follow them round the globe. The highest i)oints 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 209 

of tbese waves will remain far behind the verticals of the disturbing 
bodies, Itecause the inertia and friction of the water prevent the rapid 
change of form required, and because, although the elevating force is 
greatest under the vertical, it still continues to act in the same direction 
for some hours after the passage of the luminary, with but little 
diminished Ibrce. 

This retardation, which would be sensible under the simple sui^posi- 
tion of an uninterrupted ocean covering the earth's surface, becomes 
very considerable under the actual circumstances of the case. The 
depth of the sea varies so mucli, and the form of its basin, taken as a 
whole, is so interrupted by the land, that no regular progressive move- 
ment of the tide-wave can take place, except in the great Southern 
Ocean. At all points on the coast the phases of the tide will follow 
the periodicity of the forces causing them, but at each point, at a greater 
or less interval from tbe culmination of the sun or moon, according to 
its local position, and the more or less circuitous course taken by the 
tide- wave to reach it. This interval and the actual rise and fall of the 
tide must be determined for each place by special observation. 

LUNI-SOLAR PHASES OF THE TIDES. 

The close relations which the times of high water bear to the times 
of the moon's passage show that the moon's influence in raising the 
tides must be much greater than the sun's. In fact, while the ichole 
attraction of the sun upon the earth far exceeds that of the moon, yet 
owing to the greater proximity of the latter, the difference between 
its attraction at the center of the earth and at the nearest or most 
remote point of its surface, which difference alone produces the tides, 
is about two and a half times as great as the difference of the sun's 
attraction at the same points. 

SEMI-MONTHLY INEQUALITY. 

We will now consider the particular phases resulting from the com- 
bination of the lunar and solar tides, and from tbe varying positions of 
those bodies. There will be two complete lunar tides in every lunar 
day of twenty-four hours fifty-two minutes, and also two complete 
solar tides in every mean solar day of twenty-four hours. These are 
known as the semi-diurnal tides, and constitute the i)rincipal variations 
of the sea-level. The combined effect of these two fluctuations will be 
most readily understood by reference to the annexed diagram, in which 
the lunar tide is represented by dashes, the solar by dots, and the com- 
bined or actual tide by a full line. At the time of syzygies, or full and 
change of the moon, the effects of both sun and moon combine together 
to produce the spring-tides, when high water is higher and low water is 
lower than at mean tides by the amount of the solar tide. At quad- 
ratures the high water of the sun will combine with the low water of 
14 s 



210 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HAEBORS. 



the moon to produce a less fall, and the low water of the sun with the 
high water of the moon to produce a less rise than at mean tides ; and 
we have the neap-tides, the range of which is less than the mean range 
by the amount of the solar tide. Thus, at New York, the rise and fall 
at syzj'gies is 5.4 feet, at quadrature 3 A feet, the former being the sum, 

SEMI-MONTHLY INEQUALITY 



NEV/ OR TOLL 
rflOON 




St „„ ^th 





OCTAWT 



the latter the difference of the lunar and solar tides, whence we obtain 
for the effect of the moon 4.4 feet and for that of the sun one foot, or a 
ratio of forty-four to ten. This proportion does not prove to be the 
same in all parts of the world, and even varies considerably in places 



ox TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 211 

not far distaut from each other. At Boston the heights are 11.3 and 
8.5 feet, respectively, giving a proportion of seven to one. On the 
Atlantic coast of the United States it averages about five to one, while 
on the east side of the Atlantic Ocean, on the coasts of France and 
England, it is in many parts as three to one. These differences are to 
be ascribed to the fact that the shore and harbor tides which we observe 
have in every instance acquired a greater magnitude than the ocean 
tides, in consequence of the wave having passed over a sloping bottom 
and having been greatly retarded by the effect of friction. A comparison 
of the range of spring and neap-tides, therefore, will not serve as a 
correct measure of the relative effect of the sun and moon, unless the 
effect of friction were taken into consideration, which we are at i^resent 
unable to do for want of a complete knowledge of the configuration of 
the bottom. 

The interval between the moon's meridian x)assage and the time of 
Ligh water is subject to a variation similar to that of the height. On 
the day after the spring-tides, the top of the solar tide-wave will be 
nearly an hour in advance of the lunar tide-wave, and the two waves 
will combine to make high water earlier than the moon's alone would 
bring it. It will continue to be earlier until the moon's transit is 
later by three hours, or in the first octanr. It then falls back until it 
is latest in the third octant, and again advances, until, at the next 
spring-tides, it reaches its mean period. The mean of all the luni-tidal 
intervals for half a month at a port its called its mean establishment, 
which is used for finding the time of high water on any given day ; and 
tables are constructed from observations at the principal ports for find- 
ing the correction for semi-monthly inequality due to the moon's age. 
Thus, for New York, the mean luni-tidal interval is 8h. 13m., and its 
least and greatest values are 7h. 52m. and 8h. 35m. On the Atlantic 
coast of the United States the range of this inequality is about three- 
quarters of an hour ; on the coasts of France and Great Britain it often 
exceeds one and a half hours. 

DIURNAL INEQUALITY. 

The next variation of the tides to be considered is that dependent on 
the moon's declination. Were that body constantly in the plane of the 
equator, the highest points of the tide-waves would also be in that plane, 
and would consequently produce a series of equal tides at any place 
either north or south of the equator. But it is evident that, when the 
moon ascends to the north, the vertex of the tide-wave will tend to fol- 
low it, giving the highest point of one tide in the northern, and the 
highest point of the opposite tide in the southern, hemisphere. Conse- 
quently, when the moon has a northern declination, the tide at any ])lace 
in the northern hemisphere caused hx its upper transit will be higher 
than that caused by its lower transit. (See diagram of diurnal inequal- 
ity.) This variation in the heights has a period of one lunar day, and 



212 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 



is called tlie diurnal inequality; it reaches its maxiDium wbeu the moon 
is at its greatest northern or sonthern declination, and disappears when 
it is on the e(iuator, and conseqnently has a half -monthly period. The 
variations of height from this canse prodnce a corresponding inequality 
in the times of high water. The sun's declination affects the tides in a 
similar manner, but the amount of the disturbance is very small, and its 
period extends over half a year. In long series of observations its efl'ect 
is nevertheless well marked, both in height and time. The diurnal in- 
equality, depending upon the moon's declination, is, on the other hand, 
quite sensible, and in many places constitutes a prominent feature of 
the tides, as on the Pacific coast of North America. 



DIURNAL INEQUALITY 




PARALLACTIC INEQUALITY. 

A further cause in the variation of the height of the tides is the varia- 
tion of the distances of the sim and the moon by reason of the ellipticity 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBOKS. 



213 



of their orbits. The efficacy of a heaveuly body in raising tides is shown 
by theory to be inversely proportional to the cube of the distance. 
Hence the efficacy of the sun will fluctuate between the extremes nine- 
teen and twenty-one, taking twenty for its mean value, and that of the 
moon between forty-three and fifty-nine. Taking into account this 
cause of difference, the highest spring-tide will be to the lowest neap as 
59+21 to 43 — 19, or as eighty to twenty-four, or ten to three ; leaving 
out of consideration the local circumstances of access and depth, which, 
as we have stated, modify those proportions in a marked degree. 

TYPE CURVES. 

The three principal forms of tides are illustrated in the annexed dia- 
gram, which exhibits the tides at New York, San Francisco, and Galves- 
ton for two days from actual observation. Of these, that for San Fran- 
cisco may be taken as the normal type, showing the diurnal inequality, 
while that at New York, as at other ports on the Atlantic coast, is not 
sensibly affected by it. The explanation of this feature is iirobably to 
be found in the supposition that the tide-wave which advances up into 
the Atlantic Ocean from the continuous tide in the Southern Ocean ar- 
rives on our shores twelve hours later than the direct tide-wave which 
crosses the Atlantic from east to west. In this way the diurnal inequal- 
ity will be eliminated by the superposition of the two tides, the greater 
high water of the former coinciding with the lesser of the latter, and 
vice versa, leaving the semi-diurnal tides of equal height. 

TIDE REGISTERS 



50VERN0RSI. 
N.Y. A 




The tide at Galveston, on the other hand, furnishes a case of the elim- 
ination of the semi-diurnal tide, leaving as a residual only the diurnal 



214 ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 

inequality. It is to be presumed in tbis instance that the tides reaching 
Galveston through the straits of Florida and through the passage be- 
tween Cuba and Yucatan differ by six hours in their periods, causing 
the low water of one to coincide with the high water of the other, thus 
sensibly destroying the semi-diurnal tides, except in so far as they are 
unequal. This leaves a small tide outstanding, having substantially 
the form of the diurnal inequality, and producing the appearance of the 
" single-day tide," or one high and one low water in every twenty-four 
hours. This residual fluctuation is well marked at times when the 
moon's declination is considerable on either side of the equator, but dis- 
appears almost entirely when the moon is near the equator, since, at 
such times, the diurnal inequality disappears. Tides of tbis class have 
always a small range ; in tbe Gulf of Mexico they rarely exceed two and 
a half feet, and the average rise and fall is but one and a half foot. 

Tbe tides on the coasts of the United States have been specially in- 
vestigated by Professor Bache, tbe late Superintendent of tbe American 
Coast Survey. In connection with that work he organized an extensive 
system of exact tidal observations, for the purpose of ascertaining the 
complicated laws which govern the tides of the seas that wash our 
shores. It will be readily understood that in order to separate the 
effects of the different causes which modify the phenomena, it is not 
sufficient to observe merely the heights and times of high and low 
water, but that a continuous record of the tides is necessary, as the 
inequalities are constantly shifting their place and magnitude. 

TIDE-GAUGES. 

For tbis purpose a self-registering tide-gauge is used, by which a 
continuous curve, representing the successive changes in the height of 
water, is traced on paper, moved by clock-work, by a pencil actuated by 
the rising and falling of a float in a vertical box, to which tbe tide has 
free access. The time-scale Is such that every hour is represented by 
one inch, and is pricked into tbe paper by points on the cylinder which 
moves tbe i)aper forward. The scale of heights is so adapted to the 
range of the tide at the place of observation that the extreme range of 
the curve will not exceed tbe width of tbe sheet — twelve inches. A con- 
tinuous sheet, sufficient for the record of a whole month, is put on tbe 
tide-gauge at one time. A complete description of this instrument will 
be found in the United States Coast Survey Report for 1853. [The 
lecturer illustrated tbe construction of several tide-gauges by means of 
diagrams.] 

In northern ports interruptions are experienced in winter from the 
float-box becoming clogged with ice, and various devices have been 
resorted to for overcoming tbis difficulty. One of tbe most effective has 
been that of maintaining a temperature above freezing within tbe float- 
box by means of a simple heating-apparatus. An arrangement of this 
kind has actually been used on the Fox Islands, in Penobscot Bay. A 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 215 

stream of water flows slowly from an elevated hogshead through a coil 
in a large stove, passes down to the bottom of the float-box and up 
again into another hogshead, from which it is pumped up every day by 
the observer into the first one. As but a small elevation of temperature 
is necessary, this arrangement has proved quite suflicient. 

Another arrangement, devised by Mr. Batchelder, of Boston, and 
called by him an "Arctic tide-gauge," is in use at Boston, and has com- 
pared well Avith the ordinary float-gange. It consists of a strong iron 
tube, about four inches in diameter, firmly bolted to a wharf or pile. It 
is open at the top, ami has at the lower end a niiiple, to which an India- 
rubber bag is fastened; the length of the tube being sufficient to allow 
the elastic bag to be always submerged at the lowest stage of the tide. 
The bag is supported by a suitable shelf or cage, and is filled with 
glycerine, which is poured in at the top of the tube. When in this con- 
dition the glycerine rises and falls within the iron tube in proportion to 
the varying height and pressure of the column of water above the rub- 
ber bag, the difference in the height of the two columns being in iDro- 
portion to the difference of the specific gravity of the water and the 
glycerine. The parts above described insure protection against floating 
ice_, and prevent congelation within the iron tube. 

A copper tube about three inches in diameter, closed at the bottom 
and open at the top, is placed within the iron tube, and floats in the 
glycerine ; if left free, it would rise and fall with the changing level of 
this. liquid. The length of the central tube is a little greater than the 
whole range of the tide. 

Near the upper end of the outer tube there are three spiral springs, 
fixed at the top and united at the bottom by a plate or disk, from which 
the central copper tube is suspended. From a stem fixed to the central 
tube or float, and moving with it, a string or chain leads over a single 
pulley, and gives horizontal motion to the pencil-carriage of the record- 
ing-apparatus. 

The distance that the central tube is to move vertically is adjusted to 
agree with the required range of the pencil upon the record-paper by 
placing within it suitable weights. 

As the glyceiine rises or falls in the annular space between the iron 
tube and the central float, the spiral spring at the top is more or less 
extended, the extension being uniform on account of the cylindrical form 
of the float. 

It is not necessary that the India-rubber bag be inclosed in a perfo- 
rated box, for the purpose of preventing oscillation, as it is always sub- 
merged, and the pressure upon it is equal to the weight of the column 
of water, having its base at the bag, and its summit at the mean level of 
the surface- waves. 

A tide-gauge, for observations on an open coast, has been devised by 
Mr. Henry Mitchell, of the Coast Survey. The graduated scale on the 
float is read from the shore by means of a spy-glass, the top of the tube 
serving as index-mark. 



216 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HAEBORS. 



PREDICTION OF TIDES. 

Self-registering tide-gauges have been kept in operation for a number 
of years at different points on both coasts of the United States, in order 
to obtain from them the data for i^redicting the tides ; and as a result, 
tide-tables liave been published by the Coast Survey for some years 
past, giving in advance the times and heights of high and low water for 
all the principal ports in the United States for every day in the year. 
In addition to this, the differences are given by which to find the same 
for intermediate ports. 

A very elaborate discussion of the tides observed at Boston during 
nineteen years, a full lunar cycle, has been made by Mr. William Ferrel, 
of the Coast Survey, and has resulted in representing the actual tides 
with unlooked-for precision. By the Introduction of the consideration of 
friction Mr. Ferrel has also succeeded in deriving a value for the mass 
of the moon, which appears to compete in exactness with the values 
obtained by astronomical methods. It is one seventy-seventh i^art of 
that of the earth. 



EARTHQUAKE-WAVES. 

The tide-gauges being in continuous operation, all other fluctuations 
of the ocean-level besides those produced by the tides are likewise reg- 
istered. The tide-curves of the western coast are frequently found in- 
dented by fluctuations arising from earthquakes. A remarkable instance 
of this kind is given in the annexed diagram of earthquake-waves, which 

EARTHQUAKE WAVES AT FORT PT, AS RECORDED ON THE SELF-REGISTERING TIDE GAUGE. 



«Ft 




€ 


h 


Ijh 


18 


11 .■ 














in 










.-/'"'"'^"""^ 


a 




^ n 






V 


P„ 


/^ 


^A/^ 


\ ^ /^ 




\ 


■7 ,1 


/ 




^^\Ap-^ 






\ 


5., 










\ 




1 




N 



0„ 
-I .. 




---^-A^^^f\f\nw^^^ 



recorded the earthquake that destroyed the city of Simoda, in Japan, 
in December, 1854. The upper curve is a reduction from the tide-gauge 
register, while the lower shows the earthquake-waves separated from 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 217 

the tidal wave. The time required for the transmission of the sea-waves 
from Simoda to San Francisco was twelve hours aud thirty-sis minutes. 
The distance being 4,500 miles, the transmission of the wave was at an aver- 
age rate of 3G0 miles per hour. The theory of wave-motion teaches us that 
this velocity will be attained by a free-moving wave in a depth of 1,440 
fathoms, which may be taken as the average depth of the Pacific Ocean 
between Japan and California. It will be observed that the crests of 
the waves occur at intervals of about twenty-three minutes, correspond- 
ing to a length, from crest to crest, of 150 miles. The height when 
the waves arrived at San Francisco was about eighteen inches from 
hollow to crest, the high waves caused by the original impulse having 
gradually flattened out to that form in their transmission across the 
ocean. 

The great earthquake which occurred in Peru, in August, 18SS, was 
likewise recorded on the tide-gauges at San Diego, San Francisco, and 
Astoria. The fluctuation of the ocean was so great in this instance as 
to be very sensible to casual observation, and was noted in Australia, 
at the Sandwich Islands, and at Kodiak, in Alaska. The data obtained 
from these observations, combined with the result before mentioned, 
indicate that the average depth of the Pacific Ocean is about 1,800 
fathoms. 

MOVEMENT OF TIDAL WAVES. 

The waves above described, originating with an impulse at one definite 
point, and propagated freely through the ocean in every direction, with 
a velocity depending upon the square root of the depth of the sea, may 
serve as good illustrations of the manner in which tides are propagated 
through sounds, bays, and rivers. The following table gives the rate of 
motion for difl'erent depths : 

Depth in feet 10 Miles per hour 12. 2 

" GO " " .'^0. 

" " 100 " " 38.7 

" " 1, 000 " " 122. 3 

" " G,000 " " 299.5 

That movement of the ocean, however, which we have designated by 
the name of tide- wave, does not partake of the nature of a wave in the 
common acceptation of the term, but it is rather to be conceived as a 
general movement of the water toward a point under the attracting body, 
and again away from it. Its periodicity is strictly dependent upon that 
of the attracting body. The velocity of the movement is about 1,000 
miles per hour on the equator; it extends to the bottom of the ocean, 
the depth of which is inconsiderable compared with the radius of the 
earth. It is not attended by a sensible elevation of the water in mid- 
ocean ; and in this respect the characteristic of what we call a wave is 
absent. The movement may be likened to that of an impulse given to 
a very long rigid bar, as of iron. In this case, a sensible time will be 



218 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 



required for tbe transmission of the impulse from one end to the other, 
and during its transmission the particles will successively approach to 
each other, by which an infinitesimal elevation and subsidence, after 
the manner of a wave, will be produced. In the same way the trans- 

riMES AND HEIGHTS OF TIDES ON ATLANTIC COAST OF UNITED STATES 



TJEWYORK, 




Jl 



mission of the movement through the incompressible water of the sea 
is attended with an infinitesimal elevation and recession ; but when the 
movement reaches shallow water, in approaching the shores, the hori- 
zontal motion is partly translated into vertical motion upon the sloping 
bottom 5 audit is thus that the tides attain sensible vertical height. 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 



219 



Now, where a bay or indentation of the coast presents itself, oi^eniug 
favorably to the tide- wave thus developed, and decreases in width from 
its entrance toward its head, the tide rises higher and higher from the 
mouth upward. This is due to the concentration of the wave by the 
approach of the shores and to the gradual shoaling of the.bottom. 

This effect is strikingly ilhistrated by a generalization of the heights 
of the tides on the Atlantic coast of the United States. That coast 
presents, in its general outline, as represented in the annexed diagram, 
three large bays : the great southern, from Cape Florida to Cape Ilat- 
teras ; the great middle, from Cape Hatteras to Nantucket ; and the 
great eastern, from Nantucket to Cape Sable, now known as the Gulf 
of Maine. It will be seen that the tide-wave arrives at about the same 
time at the headlands, Cape Florida, Cape Hatteras, Nantucket, and 
Cape Sable, and that at those points the height is inconsiderable com- 
pared with the rise at the head of the several bays. Thus, at Cape 
Florida the mean rise and fall is only one and one-half of a foot ; at 
Hatteras, but two feet ; while at the intermediate entrance to Savannah 
it reaches seven feet, declining in height toward both capes. Again, at 
the head of the middle bay, in New York Harbor, it reaches five feet, 
while on the southeast side of Nantucket Island it is little over one 
foot. The configuration of the eastern bay is less regular, and the cor- 
respondence of heights is not so obvious. The recess of Massachusetts 
Bay is well marked, the increase in height reaching ten feet at Boston 
and Plymouth. Boiling on eastward along the coast of Maine, it con- 
stantly increases; but the most striking effect of the convergence of 
shores is exhibited in the Bay of Fundy. At St. John's the mean height 
of tide is nineteen feet, and at Sackville, in Cumberland Basin, thirty- 
six feet, attaining to fifty feet and more at spring-tides. 

When the wave leaves the open sea, its front slope and rear slope are 
equal in length and similar in form, but as it advances into a narrow 
channel, bay, or river, its front slope becomes short and steep, and its 
rear slope becomes long and less inclined. Hence arises the fact that 
at a station near the sea, the time occupied by the rise is equal to that 
occupied by the descent ; but at a station more removed from the sea, 
the rise occupies a shorter time than the descent. Thus, in Delaware 
Baj' and Eiver we have the following relations of the duration and 
height of rise and fall : 



Station. 


Mean rise 
and fall. 


Lnni-tidal 
interval. 


Mean duration of — 


Flood-tide. 


Ebb tide. 


Delaware breakvve.ter 


Feet. 
3.5 
6.0 
5.5 
6.0 


h. m. 

8 

9 4 
11 53 
13 44 


h. m. 
6 18 
5 56 
5 24 
4 52 


h. m, 

6 8 


Egg Island light 


6 30 


New Castle 


7 2 


Philadelphia 


7 34 







220 ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 

An examination of tbis table will show, besides the marked increase 
in the height of the tide due to the contraction of the shores from the 
capes up to 'New Castle, a subsequent loss from friction in a narrow 
channel of nearly uniform character, and correspondingly a rapid propa- 
gation of the .tide-wave through the deep water of the bay, and a com- 
paratively slow movement along the narrower channel of the river. At 
the mouth of the bay the duration of rise exceeds that of fall by ten 
minutes, while at Philadelphia it is less by two hours forty-two min- 
utes. When the tide is very large compared with the depth of water, 
this inequality becomes very great; thus, in the Severn River, atNewn- 
ham, above Bristol, England, the whole rise of eighteen feet takes place 
in one and a half hours, while the fall occupies ten hours. 

TIDAL CURRENTS. 

The agency of tidal currents in produciug changes in the entrauces 
of bays and harbors is a subject of the first importance to commerce 
and navigation, and has received full attention in the prosecution of the 
American coast survey. The laws according to which the changes 
take place require to be studied by long-continued observation, and 
when the change is for the worse, the means of counteractiug it must 
be pointed out. 

As on the average the same amount of water moves inward and out- 
ward with the flood and ebb tides, we might readily suppose that the 
same amount of material is transported either w^ay, and that no impor- 
tant change would take place in the configuration of the bottom. But 
the operation of the flood-stream is very different from that of the ebb- 
stream. We have, as a general feature, an interior basin of some ex- 
tent, communicating with the sea by a comparatively narrow i^assage. 
The flood-stream, therefore, running with considerable velocity through 
this channel, will, as it enters the basin, spread out and become slow, 
depositing the sand and mud it is charged with, and making extensive 
flats or shoals opposite the entrance. The ebb-stream runs slowly over 
the flats from all directions toward the opening without removing much 
of the deposit, and gradually concentrates in definite narrow channels, 
which it scoops out, and the depth of which will depend in a great de- 
gree on the proportion of the area of the basin to the outlet, or, in other 
terms, on the difference of level which will be reached during the ebb 
between the basin and the ocean, which determines the greatest veloc- 
ity and transporting power reached by the ebb-stream. 

On the bars of most of the sand-barred harbors on our southern coast, 
the place and direction of the channel are frequently changed during 
violent storms ; when the direction of the waves happens to be oblique to 
that of the channel, or when the sea runs directly upon the channel, the 
depth of water may be considerably diminished for the time being by the 
sand rolled up by the waves. But in all these cases it is found that 
the normal depth is speedily restored by the scour of the ebb-tide, which 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HAKBORS. 



221 



depends upon the unchanged factors of area and form of basin, height 
of tide, and character of the material forming the bar. 

EFFELCT OF SlNK.riC STONt-FLEET ON CH^RLFSTON BAf\ 




^ 



WW 






■m0 



An interesting instance of this manitenance of the depth of channels 
from a determinate tidal basin is furnished by the effects, of the ob- 
structions placed in the channel over Charleston Bar during the war of 
the rebellion. On the accompanying diagram is seen the " stone fleet " 
sunk in the main channel, which at that time had twelve feet of water 
at low tide where the figure 7 indicates the present depth. There was, 
moreover, another channel, making out more to the southward, with 



222 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBOES. 



nine feet of water, where the iigure 3 indicates the present depth. The 
vessels were placed checker-wise, in such a manner as to impede naviga- 
tion, while interfering least with the discharge of the water. The effect, 
nevertheless, was the formation of a shoal in a short time, and the 
scouring out of two channels, one on each side of the obstructions, 
through which twelve and fourteen feet can now be carried at low water. 
The increased water-way thus given to the ebb-tide caused it to aban- 
don the old nine-foot channel on the less direct course to deep water. 
We have here the total obstruction of a channel which was of consider- 
able importance to the southward trade by new conditions introduced 
at a point four miles distant from where the effect was produced, and 
we are warned how carefully all the conditions of the hydraulic system 
of a harbor must be investigated before undertaking to make any 
change in its natural conditions, lest totally unlooked-for results be pro- 
duced at points not taken into consideration. 

NEW YORK HARBOR. 

Ai)proaching now more closely to the consideration of the tidal con- 
ditions in New York Harbor, we will examine the progress of the tide- 
wave through Long Island Sound from the eastward to its meeting with 
that entering New York Bay at Sandy Hook. 



TIMES AND HEIGHTS OF TIDES IN LONG ISD. SOUND AND NEV/ YORK HARBOR 



BLOCK I. 




We see from the annexed diagram that about seven and a half hours 
after the transit of the moon high water has advanced just within Block 
Island with an elevation of two i'eet, and at the same time has just 
passed Sandy Hook with an elevation of four and a half feet. Travers- 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBOES. 223 

ing the sound at a rate indicated by the Eoman figures, with increasing 
heights indicated by the Arabic numerals, it reaches Sand's Point 
eleven and a half hours after the transit of the moon with a height of 
seven and seven-tenths feet. The observed time of transmission from 
the Eace to Sand's Point is two hours one minute, and the time com- 
puted from the depths, according to the law developed by Airy, is two 
hours fourteen minutes — a very good approximation, when we consider 
the irregularities in the configuration of the sound, which could not be 
taken into account. Advancing still farther, the height somewhat de- 
clines in consequence of the changes of direction in the channel and 
its shallowness. At Hell Gate this tide- wave is met by that which had 
entered at Sandy Hook, and advanced more slowly, owing to the nar- 
rowness and intricacies of the channel, especially in the East River. 

These two tides, which meet and overlap each other at Hell Gate, dif- 
fering from each other in times and heights, cause contrasts of water- 
elevations between the sound and harbor which call into existence the 
violent currents that traverse the East Eiver. The conditions of the 
tidal circulation through Hell Gate are such, that if there were a parti- 
tion across it, the water would sometimes stand nearly five feet higher, 
and at other times five feet lower, on one side than on the other. In the 
actual case of the superposition or compounding of the two tides the 
difference of level existing at any time is of course much less; but 
the difference of one foot is often observed within the space of 100 
feet in the most contracted portion of Hell Gate, off Hallett's Point 
Eeferring now more particularly to the diagram representing iSTew 
York Bay and Harbor, it is important to observe that the entrance from 
Long Island Sound is a natural depression or arm of the sea, which is 
not changed by the forces now in operation. The tidal currents which 
flow through it do not change the channel, but are obliged to follow it 
in its tortuous course. The Sandy Hook entrance, on the contrary, is 
characterized by a cordon of sands, extending from Sandy Hook to 
Coney Island, intersected by channels, which are maintained against 
the action of the sea, that tends to fill them up, by the scour of the ebb- 
tide from the tidal basin of New York Harbor. 

Unlike Hell Gate passage, where permanence is the leading charac- 
teristic, the bar and channels of Sandy Hook have undergone continual 
changes within the brief period of our history. The advance of Sandy 
Hook upon the main ship-channel is among the notable and important 
instances of the effect of tidal currents. Within a century it has in- 
creased a mile and a quarter. In the place where the beacon on the 
end of the Hook now stands were forty feet of water fifteen years before 
it was built. The cause of this growth is a remarkably northwardly 
current along both shores of the Hook, running both during the flood 
and the ebb tides with varying rates, and resulting from those tides 
directly and indirectly. 

The best water over the bar is about two miles east of Sandy Hook 



224 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 



light, ill a direct line with the swash channel, which is the second open- 
iug_showu on the sketch — above the Hook ; the shoal lying between 
the main or Hook channel and the swash channel being known as 
Flynn's Knoll. The greatest depth over the bar is twenty-two feet at 
mean low water ; and very nearly the same depth can now be carried 
through the swash channel, which formerly was three feet shallower, 

ENTRANCE TO NEW YORK HARBOR 




but has deepened since the cross-section between the Hook and Flynn's 
Knoll has been diminished by one-third its area by the growth of the 
Hook. This relative change in the capacity of the channels has not, 
however, affected the depth on the outer bar, which, according to the 
principles above laid down, is dependent mainly upon the area of the 
tidal basin within. 

The depth of twenty-two feet at mean low water, which is now main- 
tained at the entrance through the sands constantly thrown up by the 



ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 225 

waves of the sea, may be considered as dependiug upon the following 
elements: 

1st. The large basin between Sandy Hook and Staten Island, includ- 
ing Earitan Bay, which furnishes more than one-half of the whole ebb- 
scour ; 

2d. What is called the Upper Bay, including the Jersey flats and 
Newark Bay; 

3d. The ISTorth Eiver, perhaps as far as Dobbs' Ferry, maintaining 
the head of the ebb-current, although not directly taking j)art in tbe 
outflow ; and, 

4th.. A portion of the sound tide, which flows in through Hell Gate. 

The i)roportion of the three first divisions in producing the depth of 
channel may be approximately estimated by a comparison of the areas 
and distances from the bar. In order to maintain the depth which we 
now have, it is important that the area of the tidal basin should not be 
encroached upon. In proportion as that is diminished the depth of the 
channels will decrease. 

The flats, just bare at low water, but covered at high tide, form as 
important a part as any other portion, for it is obvious that it is only 
the volume of water contained between the planes of low and high 
water — tbe " tide-prism" — that does the work in scouring the channels. 
The water on the flats is especially useful by retarding the outflow, 
thus allowing a greater difference of level to be reached between the 
basin and the ocean. 

When we yield to the demands of commerce any portion of the tidal 
territory to be used for its wharves and docks, we must do so with full 
cognizance of the sacrifice we are about to make in the depth of water 
over the bar ; and in order to form any well-founded judgment in re- 
gard to the eflect of such encroachments, it is necessary to be in pos- 
session of the fullest knowledge of all the physical facts involved in 
the problem, and no measure of encroachment should be determined 
upon except in pursuance of the advice of scientific experts. 

A proposition frequently mooted by men of enterprise, and resisted 
by those interested in the welfare of the city of New York, is the occu- 
pation of the Jersey flats from Paulus Hook to Bobbins Reef for docks 
and wharves. Without expressing any opinion as to the relative value 
of the gain of accommodation for shipping and the loss of depth in 
the channel, I venture to ^ay that the withdrawal of that area from the 
domain of the tide would occasion a loss of not less than one foot in 
the depth of the bar oft' Sandy Hook, and certainly not more than two 
feet. 

The part which the fourth division in our classification of the basin 
of New York, that of the East River and Hell Gate passage, phiys in 
the outflow of the ebb-tide through the Sandy Hook channels, depends 
less upon the area involved than upon the difference in point of time 
and height of tide in Hell Gate, already adverted to. The westerly 
15 s 



22 G ON TIDES AND TIDAL ACTION IN HARBORS. 

current, usually called the ebb-stream, since it falls in with the ebb- 
stream of New York Harbor, taking place when the sound-tide is 
highest, starts from a level ot three and a half feet higher than the 
easterly, and thus a much larger amount of water flows out through 
the Sandy Hook channels than through the narrows at Throg's i!^eck. 
It is apparent, then, that this portion of the ebb-stream, re-enforcing as 
it does the ebb-stream of the harbor proper at the most favorable 
times, performs a most important part in maintaining the channels 
through the Sandy Hook bar. It may be estimated that the closing of 
Hell Gate would cause the loss of certainly not less than three feet iu 
the depth of those channels. 

From what has been said with regard to the meeting of the tides in 
Hell Gate, it will be seen that the violent currents experienced in that 
locality are due to causes beyond our control. The dangers to naviga- 
tion arising from these currents, however, by their setting vessels upon 
the rocks and reefs, may, in a great measure, be done away with by the 
removal of the obstructions, in which work considerable progress has 
already been made. The removal of the reef at Hallett's Point, the 
work upon which is now iu ijrogress, will doubtless, in a great degree, 
do away with the eddies and under-currents produced by the sharp turn 
which the channel now takes at that point. It is not improbable that 
the successful removal of those obstructions will yet cause the sound 
entrance to be used iu preference to the other by the fleets idying 
between European ports and the great commercial metropolis of America. 

Note. — The reader who wishes to enter upon the mathematical treatment of the subject 
of tides is referred to Aii'y's treatise on tides and waves, and to the memoirs of Whewell 
and Lubbock, in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society ; and for investij^a- 
tions of the laws of the tides on our own coasts, to the papers on that subject by Bache 
and others in the annual reports of the Coast Survey. Among the latter, the lecturer is 
particularly iudebtel to the "Report on the tides and currents of Hell Gate," by Henry 
Mitchell, 1867, in which the complicated problem of the tidal circulation of New York Har- 
bor is treated with great ability and success. 



OBSERVATIONS UPON THE ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE 
AND THE AURORA BORI^^ALIS, MADE DURING THE SWEDISH 
EXPEDITION OF 1868 TO THE NORTH POLE. 



By Prof. Selim Lemstrom, of the University of Helsingfors, Finland. 



There can be no savant now living who is not convinced that polar 
light is a phenomenon due to electric action in the upper regions of the 
atmosphere. Of the two theories which have been advanced to explain 
the phenomenon, one of which seeks its origin exclusively in variations in 
the intensity of terrestrial magnetism, the other in the electricity of the 
air, the former must give place to the latter, since there are very many 
convincing proofs in its favor. Unhappily, our knowledge of the electric 
state of the atmosphere in high polar regions is very limited; could it 
be extended, all doubts which now exist in regard to the subject would 
probably disappear. The attempts made to discover the nature of 
atmospheric electricity in the regions of the extreme north, have in gen- 
eral given only negative results, with the exception, however, of the re- 
searches made in the neighborhood of Bossekop by French savants, who, 
by sending up a kite or an arrow, attached by a conducting wire to an 
electroscope, to a vertical height of from 30 to 40 yards, have proved 
the constant presence of positive electricity ; but, these observations are 
too few in number, and were made in a latitude not sufficiently high to 
be conclusive. 

I. One of the most important of my objects in the physical researches 
of the expedition of 18G8 was the study of the phenomena relating to the 
electricity of the atmosphere ; but notwithstanding all my care, I ob- 
tained only negative results. As I am convinced that in every case T 
could account for my want of success, I will briefly describe the experi- 
ments I attempted, in order to pass to the observations I had occasion to 
make in regard to the aurora borealis. 

The first experiment, made on the 26th and 28th of August, 18G8, on 
a narrow tongue of land at Kobbe Bay, by means of the electrometer, 
gave no result, although the observations were made several times a 
day, and even at night, at the same time that I observed the magnetic 
instruments. Expecting to find the cause of these negative results 
either in the insensibility of the instrument or in the nature of the lo- 
cality, which, closed on three sides by mountains, was open only on the 
side toward the sea, I determined to modify my instrument, and to look 
for a more open place for my observations. It was not until the 28th 



228 ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS. 

of September, while the Sophie was anchored at Southgatt, that I could 
carry this project into execution. 

Having made my electrometer more sensitive, I went, on the day 
above mentioned, between 11 o'clock and noon, to an island situated at 
the moijth of the Southgatt, and established my instrument on the high- 
est point of the island, GOO feet above the level of the sea. Notwith- 
standing these precautions I still obtained no certain result. This was 
possibly on account of the violence of the wind, which produced oscilla- 
tions in the electrometer, but other observations made on the 7th of 
October at King's Bay were equally unsuccessful. 

Although these experiments were too few in number, and too incom- 
plete to draw from them any positive conclusion whatever, I am con- 
vinced that this absence of electric manifestation was due to the peculiar 
constitution of the air in these regions. A glance over the hygrometric 
observations shows that the air was almost constantly saturated with 
moistnre, and this moisture did not exist merely in the form of insensible 
vapor, but also as fog. This circumstance rendered it almost impossible to 
isolate the instrument, and consequently to obtain the effects of the 
electricity of tension. We may at least conclude that there is no elec- 
tricity of tension in northern aerial regions which approximate to a plain, 
but that the electricity rises through damp air into the higher regions 
of the atmosphere. I am inclined to believe that observations of the 
electricity of the air made on level ground will always give negative 
results. Elevated ground should be chosen, and an instrument which 
may be sent up into the higher strata of the atmosphere, such as the 
kite used by Franklin. 

Setting aside these incomplete experiments, which can only be of use 
as guides for future eflbrts, I pass to the observations upon the aurora 
borealis. 

During the last days of September the Sophie was anchored at South- 
gate, a strait lying between the island called Danes Island and the 
continent of Spitzbergen, at 79° 39' 1" of latitude and 11° 7' of longitude 
west of Greenwich. The gulf .of which this strait is an outlet is sur- 
rounded on the north and south by mountains, those on the south about 
300 meters in height. At the mouth of this gulf lies the island above 
mentioned; to the east the view is limited by other mountains varying 
in height. The Sophie w\as anchored close to the shore of Danskow, a 
little to the northwest of the island, at the mouth of the strait. On 
returning from the island, where the instruments for the magnetic obser- 
vations had been deposited, I perceived upon the ridge of the mountain, 
to the south, a brilliant polar light rising from 10° to 15° above 
the mountain in undulating rays, distinctly defined, at their base ap- 
pearing as a diffuse yellowish light, but higher up as vertical orange 
beams, while at the top they formed a series of sharj) points. The rays 
had an undulating motion, and the crest of the mountain was covered 
with a light fog, which the wind was moving from east-northeast to 



ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS.229 

"west-soutbwest. In a few moments the cloud of mist passed the mount- 
ain and the rays disappeared, but the crest of the mountain continued 
to be illuminated by a pale wandering light, which floated along the 
mountain, and of which it was not easy to determine the character; still 
I was in no doubt, for the spectral analysis very clearly disi)layed the 
yellow ray discovered in polar light by M. Angstrom. I continued to 
observ^e the crest of the mountain, over which foggy vajiors were pass- 
ing, allowing to appear from time to time the pale light I have described. 

At 11 o'clock 30 minutes the npjjer part of the fog, which presented 
very much the appearance of a cloud with serrated edges, became illu- 
miuated with a yellowish white light, in the course of a moment con- 
verted into yellowish and reddish rays, which extended with an undula- 
tory motion alqng the edges of the fog, following the irregularities in 
their minutest detail. The fog rose in the form of an arch about 10"^ 
above the mountain, and the rays attained a height of from 10° to 15°, 
which gives for the whole phenomenon an elevation of from 20° to 25° 
above the horizon. At the same time there began to appear at the 
north an indistinct combination of the brilliant edges of clouds, among 
which I clearly distinguished one, from which proceeded a distinctly- 
marked yellow ray, seeming in appearance to connect this cloud with 
another. The rest of the sky was' covered with fillets or bands of light 
clouds, passing over the zenith from the east to the west and allowing 
the stars to appear at intervals. 

The day following, the 2Gth of September, having observed the crest 
of the mountain with attention, I found it was almost entirely covered 
with snow, except at one or two j)laces, which seemed to be those at 
which the night before the light had appeared with least intensity. 
The evening of the same day the phenomenon was again manifested, 
but with some modifications. A little below the horizon to the south- 
west, almost opposite the promontory or headland which terminates the 
mountain, appeared a series of clouds whose upper edges were strongly illu- 
minated with a diffuse yellow and white light, which was very intense 
on the edge of the cloud at the extreme western end of the series, but di- 
minished in brilliancy along the edges of the clouds until at the eastern 
end, where the last cloud seemed to melt into the headland, it was 
hardly perceptible. Very soon rays appeared, similar to those observed 
the night before, which seemed to proceed from a mist lying along the 
crest of the mountain, but somewhat back of it. This time the i)he- 
uomenon seemed to take place at a much greater distance than during 
the preceding observations, but the form and color of the rays were the 
same ; and I again, with the spectroscope, obtained the yellow ray as 
well from the light emanating from the edge of the clouds as from that 
proceeding from the rays themselves. 

On the 27th of September, after having observed in the mornicg a 
radiation of yellowish-white light proceeding from one edge of a cloud 
which stood out prominently from a wall of clouds, I perceived in the 



230 ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS. 

evening, at 11 o'clock 30 minutes, a pale, wandering light moving dis- 
tinctly along the ridge of the mountain. The light appeared for a few 
moments in the form of rays of a clear and brilliant yellow, following 
every detail of the sinuosities of the mountain. The j^ale glimmer of 
light seemed to follow the ridge of the mountain, and I was convinced, 
from the movement of the mists, that the luminous phenomenon was 
formed upon the ridge itself. 

On the 30th of September, at 9h. 30 ni., I witnessed on the island of 
Amsterdam a very intense luminous phenomenon, during which every 
peak and ridge, the most elevated, was illuminated with a pale light, par- 
ticularly when covered with a vail of mist. We could clearlj' distinguish 
the contour of the mountains, and above them an efl'ect of light, which 
frequently rose to a great height, and ended by gradually diminishing iu 
intensity until lost in the upper strata of the mist. This light appeared 
during the whole of the harvest season, while we were stationed at 
Spitzbergen. Upon some peaks, overlooking a glacier which descends to 
the very bottom of Smeerenburg Bay, the light was still stronger. We 
even perceived upon one point reddish rays resembling flames, in which 
the spectroscope evidently .indicated the presence of the yellow ray. 
On the days when this phenomenon was observed the wind was very 
strong, with a variable direction difficult to determine. We were, how- 
ever, sure that there were two contending currents of air — the one from 
the north or east, the other from the south or west. 

While the Sophie remained at Kingsbay, during the first fifteen 
days of October, every night fog-like mist covered the summits and ridges 
of the mountains, and their brilliancy seemed to increase as the season 
advanced. Besides this general phenomenon, we observed on the 9th 
of October, at 5h. in the morning, a brilliant polar light in the south, about 
1,000 feet above the chain of mountains, which gradually faded away 
toward the north. A similar light appeared on the 11th of October and 
on the 12th, beneath a cloud upon the mountains, ready to be dissolved 
into snow, appeared a pale-yellow light with points at its edge. This 
himinous phenomenon had an undulatory movement, in addition to the 
forward motion given to it by the course of the clouds toward the west. 
Soon the light disappeared, and was replaced b^ a light fall of fine snow. 
On the 14th and 15th of October, in the evening, a cloud appeared, (on 
the llth in the west-southwest, and on the loth in the southeast, from 
the upiier edge of which, when at a sufficient height above the horizon, 
emanated an intense yellow light, soon transformed into rays of genuine 
polar light, yellow at their base and red at the top. These rays, which 
moved with the cloud, rose with it nearly to the zenith, where they 
tended to form a crown. 

On the entrance of the Sophie into the Norwegian archipelago, on the 
evening of the 18th of October, we saw some patches of polar light scat- 
tered here and there over the skj', iu the north and east, which after- 
ward formed a continuous ring around the horizon. The rays of this 



ELECTEICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS. 231 

ring- gradually elougated, and suddenly meeting around the zenith, 
formed for a few moments a boreal crown of perfect regularity and the 
most brilliant colors. 

On our arrival at Tromso, I examined with the spectroscope a beauti- 
ful polar light, which appeared on the 21st of October, commencing- at 
the north. The first rays clearly displayed the yellow ray in question. 
The phenomenon becoming more brilliant, a variegated band was formed 
toward the south, of yellow, red, and green, which gave, 1st, the yellow ray; 
2d, in the blue part, a very distinct and very clear ray ; 3d, two lines of 
the breadth of a hair, showing very decided horizontal stripes by the 
side of the yellow. I ought to say that the yellow ray in every case 
seemed to me peculiar in being variable in intensity ; sometimes more, 
sometimes less vivid. On the 27th of October, we were enabled to de- 
termine more accurately the position of the rays, and we found that the 
yellow line furnished by the yellow light of chloride of sodium was 
Cl.O ; in the auroral light, the yellow line was at 79.9 ; the blue at 65.90. 
The first of the shaded lines at 125.0 ; and the second shaded line at 
about 105.0. 

II. Admitting, in general, the mostof theopinions advanced in the work 
of M. Loomis, in regard to the aurora borealis,* which, in many respects, 
accord with the theory given by M. de la Eive, and supported by experi- 
ment, I have still, after the observations described, some doubts in re- 
gard to certain parts of this work, especially those which relate to the 
particular nature of the phenomenon. 

The fact that polar light is an electric phenomenon, taking place in 
the atmosphere, is well established by the analogy which exists between 
its effects and those of electric currents. It produces, as they do, per- 
turbations of the magnetic needle and currents in a good conductor. 
The luminous phenomenon itself exactly resembles the light produced 
by electric discharges in a damp' atmosphere, or between two electrodes 
placed in rarified air. The results of spectral analysis, as well as those 
discovered by M. Angstrom, and the new rays I have described, give 
further proof of the electric origin of polar light ; for, in order to obtain 
a spectrum with a gas, the latter must be incandescent, and electricity 
is the only source of heat which can produce this incandescence in the 
aerial molecules and other particles which constitute the atmosphere. 

The question as to the height at which polar light is manifested has 
been the subject of much controversy. From observations made in 
America with great care and in several separate localities, M. Loomis 
calculated the height of the beautilnl aurora borealis of the 2d of Sep- 
tember to be at its lower limit 45 to 50 English miles, and at its upper 
limit from 400 to 500. Mr. Potter, in England, in 1833, gave, as height 
of the aurora, 03 miles, and Dalton, in 1820, estimated it at 100. Dur- 
ing the French expedition, from 1838, 1839, observations made simulta- 
neously at two stations — Bossekop and Jupwig — gave 00 to 100 miles 

* Smithsonian Report for 18(35. 



232 ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS. 

as tlie height of the aurora. Polar light, however, has beeu often ob- 
served at much less height. Farquharson, by means of observations 
matle at two distinct places, a mile apart, found a height of 2,4Sl Eng- 
lish feet ; and Captain Parry saw, on one occasion, polar light produced 
between the place where he was stationed and a mountain only about 
3,000 yards distant. The French observations made at Bossekop equally 
proved the existence of polar light between the place of observation and 
a neighboring mountain.* 

Although M. Loorais and M. Bravais himself believe that observa- 
tions which give so low a height to polar light are erroneous, and the 
result of an illusion, I cannot agree with them, and I can ofier in sup- 
port of my opinion the phenomenou I observed on the 18th of October, 
18G8, at the entrance of the Norwegian archipelago, when the whole 
horizon was covered with rays, which were soon united around the 
magnetic pole, forming a regular crown. All the phenomena I have 
observed and described in regard to the illuminated edges of clouds, 
show very plainly that in these cases the polar light was produced in 
the region of clouds, and even lower. Moreover, we know by numerous 
observations that the number of storms accompanied by lightning and 
thunder diminishes considerably in proportion as we approach the polar 
regions, so that at 70° they no longer occur. Must we then conclude ^ 
that in these regions the clouds are completely deprived of electricity 1 
Oertaiuly not, but only that the electrical discharges are made in some 
other way. I have on several occasions observed discharges, accom- 
panied with electric light, proceeding from scattered clouds or banks of 
clouds such as produced true polar rays, and still more frequently I have 
seen the edges of clouds illuminated with a yellow light. But, however, 
in these high latitudes electricity is discharged not only by clouds, but 
-also directly by damp air, as takes place in winter in the temi>erate 
zones. A great many direct observations prove the existence of slow 
discharges of this nature, and very remarkable confirmation is given of 
it by M. Angstrom, who on one occasion i^roved the presence of the 
yellow ray of polar light over almost the entire sky. 

If it is well established that the phenomenon of polar light has its 
source in the electricity of the air, it follows that its appearance depends 
less upon terrestrial magnetism than has been hitherto supposed. This 
may exercise a direct actiou upon the discharge already produced, but 
cannot contribute to its production, which must depend upon certain 
conditions of the different strata of air. Although terrestrial magnetism 
has an influence upon the position of the luminous bow of i)olar light, 

*M. A. W. Malin, inteiidaut of the Museum of Gotteuburg, relates, in a description of a 
journey made iu 1842 in the Laplands of Sweden and Norway, that, during an excursion 
from Maunu to Lyngen on the night of the JGth of March, lie observed, at a height of 2,000 
feet, with the temperature at 40 degrees below zero, a polar light between himself aai the 
neighboring mountains, and heard a crackling sound which accompanied it. 



ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS.233 

it is difficult to believe, with Hansteen andBravais, that the position of 
this bow is determined solely by the magnetic pole. 

The apex ot tbe polar bow is rarely in the exact direction of the needle 
of declination. Of two hundred and twenty-six observations of the posi- 
tion of the azimuth of the luminous polar bow, 30 out of 100 placed it 30° 
more to the west, 32, 10° to 20°, 7, 0° to 10°, and 4, 0° to 20° to the east ; 
from which it is evident that the position of the bow varies over a space 
01 from 25 to 30^ and more. These variations are very great to be 
explained by accidental perturbations in terrestrial magnetism, particu- 
larly as the greatest deviation in magnetic declination — that is, from 6° 
to about 7° — observed occasionally in polar regions is due to polar light 
itself. 

We may then consider it certain that terrestrial magnetism relatively 
plays but a secondary part in the ijhenomenon of polar liglit; that tbis 
part essentially consists in a directive action upon the rays of this 
light, and in a rotary movement imparted to these rays — facts i)ositively 
demonstrated by the experiments of M. de la Rive. 

The formation of the auroral crown, which takes place when polar 
light is very intense and its rays are united around the magnetic zenith, 
is generally supposed to be an effect of perspective. When a certain 
number of polar rays, jiarallel to the direction of the needle of inclina- 
tion, are projected to a considerable height, they ought to appear to 
unite around the magnetic zenith ; but the aspect they present should 
be rather that of a lengthened point or a funnel, according as the ob- 
server is placed on one side or in the middle of the phenomenon. In 
polar regions it often happens that the polar rays start from all parts 
of the horizon, which is the case when the observer is within the ring. 
If then the crown was a phenomenon of perspective, the rays should 
appear to unite at a rather sharp angle. Now, this is by no means the 
case, for they form a vault, resembling very much the cupola of a churcli. 
Although my experience is not sufficient for me to make a positive 
assertion, I am strongly inclined to believe that, under the influence of 
terrestrial magnetism, and perhaps also through the effect of the con- 
ducting power of the medium, the rays of light undergo a flexion, the 
result of which is to unite thera really, not merely in appearance, in the 
upper parts of the atmosphere. In proof I may cite the polar light I 
observed on the 18th of October, under the 17th degree of latitude. 
The rays starting from all parts of the horizon formed an immense 
ring, and united around the magnetic zenith, where the crown was 
formed in a perfectly regular manner, i^resenting the appearance of a 
flattened cupola. How^ever, the experiments of M. de la Rive, which 
have demonstrated the influence of magnetism upon electric light, un- 
der circumstances almost identical with those presented by polar light, 
furnish no proof that the rays of this light are really united under this 
influence. 



234 ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS. 

Polar ligbt, considered as an electric discharge, produces the follow- 
ing results :* 

1. An electric current, produced by the discharge itself, which takes 
i:)lace slowly. 

2. Kays of light consisting of an infinite number of sparks, each spark 
giving rise to two currents of induction, proceeding in opposite di- 
rections. 

3. An electric current, proceeding in an opposite direction from that 
of the charge, and originating in the electro-motive force, discovered by 
M. Edluud in the electric spark. 

In order to develop these currents, a closed circuit is necessary. It 
is true that in the i)henomenon of polar light this does not properly 
exist, but in that case the earth on one hand, and the ran^fied air of the 
upper regions of the atmosphere on the other, are immense reservoirs 
of electricity, which produce the same effect as if the circuit was closed. 

According to the theory of M. de la Kive, the i)Ositive electricity of the 
air, discharging itself into the ground, produces a current I will call 
principal ; this current is re-enforced by one of the currents of induction, 
which M, Edlund has shown accompany the production of the electric 
spark ; that is to say, the one which, going in the opposite direction from 
the charge, can alone acquire a certain degree of intensity. Bat this 
principal current thus re-enforced is counterbalanced in part by the one 
which has the contrary direction, and which produces the electro-motive 
force of the spark. We see by the observations made with telegraph 
wires during the appearance of polar light that it is sometimes the one, 
sometimes the other of these two currents which gains possession of the 
wire, the first being generally predominant, since it has been observed 
that the current given by telegraphic wires is more frequently" directed 
from the north to the south than from the south to the north. 

Under the circumstances which accompany the production of polar 
light, the latter contains in itself all the conditions necessary in order 
that magnetism may act upon it ; for a ray of this light constitutes a 
current, flexible throughout, and consequently obedient to the law dis- 
covered by Plucker, according to which such a current necessarily takes 
the form of a magnetic curve. It is here we should look for the cause 
of the formation of the crown, taking at the same time into considera- 
tion "the variations in conductibility of the rarefied air of the upper 
regions of the atmosphere. 

When an arch of i)olar light appears, we consider that it forms part 
of a radiant ring, whose center coincides vei-y nearly with the mag- 
netic pole. The rays of this ring are parallel to the direction of the 

* The author precedes this part of his work with the description of an experiment, in which 
he tried, but unsuccessfully, the action of a magnet upon a series of discharges produced 
by Holtz's machine under certain conditions. We omit this description, as it would be un- 
intelligible without a figure to illustrate it, and it is not of ^reat importance, since the results 
of the experiment were negative. ' 



ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS. 235 

needle of inclination, and oujjTit consequently to diverge from all 
sides ; a circumstance unfavorable to their union in perspective at the 
magnetic zenith. But it is not proved that the radiation has always for 
center the magnetic pole ; it may very well have another central jwint, 
as was the case during the observation I made on the 18th of October. 
On that occasion, in fact, the ring could not have been completely visible 
if it had had for center the magnetic pole. Besides, this variation of posi- 
tion is more in conformity with the manner in which the electric charges 
operate, and with the peculiarities observed in the local appearances of 
polar light.* 

Eeturuiug to the lights observed around the elevated peaks of the 
Spitzbergen, I ought to say that this phenomenon has been noticed be- 
fore. The learned philologist of Finland, Cashen, witnessed it in his 
journeys to Siberia, and his description of it exactly accords with what 
I have myself observed. Similar light has been seen in South America 
above the peaks of the Cordilleras, and in several other localities men- 
tioned by M. Delleman. The Archives des Sciences pliysiqiies et natu- 
relles (tome xxxi, p. 15) contain an article by M. H. de Saussure, in 
which are described a great number of phenomena, belonging, without 
doubt, to the same category. But it is in the arctic regions, above all 
others, that we find circumstances most favorable to observations of 
this kind, and it is much to be desired that future expeditions will un- 
dertake them. 

If we seek for the reason why the clouds of the upper latitudes dis- 
charge themselves under the form of polar light, and not that of thun- 
der and lightning, we find it in the permanent humidity of the air. The 
hygrometric observations, made during the expedition of the Sophie, 
show that the air is constantly saturated with aqueous vapors, which 
condeuse frequently into clouds, more rarely into rain. It is clear that 
this stratum of humidity, a good conductor of electricity, determines 
a slow discharge. If between the poles of an electrical machine, not 
sufficiently near together to produce a discharge, we project, by means 
of an atomizer, some water in spray, we see the discharge under the 
forai of brilliant rays. It is the same in a glass cylinder in which the 
air has been rarified by several strokes of a pistouj a rarefaction suf- 
ficient to produce a mist. The discharge, which at first appears as a 

*The author remarks here that the appearance of polar li^ht is always accompanied by a 
dark segment, througrh which the stars are visible. He mentions in this connection the ex- 
periment of M. de la Rive, who, in transmitting the discharge of an induction coil through 
very rarefied air, proved the existence of a very remarkable dark band near the negative 
electrode. The author cites an experiment made by himself in the presence of M. Edlund, 
dixring which he obtained by means of an electrophorus, in a tube of very rarefied air, a 
bluish light, followed by a dark band strongly marked around the negative electrode, and a 
kind of crown of rays around the positive electrode* In the phenomenon of polar light, the 
earth constitutes the negative electrode, the rarefied air of the higher regions of the atmo- 
sphere the positive electrode, and the dark segment bears a strong resemblance to the dark 
band of the preceding experiment. 



23G ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS.^ 

spark, is gradually transformed into a luminous current, exhibiting the 
ordinary- colors observed in polar light. 

The more the relative degree of the humidity of the air increases an 
augmentation, which at the surface of the earth proceeds from the 
equator to the poles, the more easily the electric discharge acts under 
the form of polar light. But there may be a limit beyond whicLi the 
humidity is so great that the discharge takes place without the accom- 
paniment of light. Such would seem to be indicated hy the table prepared 
by M. Loomis, of the geographical extension of polar light ; according to 
which there must be a zone, comprised between the 08th and 7Gth de- 
gree of latitude in Europe, and between the 50th and 64th in America, 
in which the greatest number of phenomena of polar light are produced. 
This very interesting peculiarity has been proved by observations made 
during our expedition ; at Spitzbergen the polar light always appeared 
to the south, while at a lower latitude, the G9th degree, it appeared at 
the zenith or to the north. 

I now return to the question of spectral analysis ; and for the moment 
notice only the mobility, so marked, of the light of the yellow ray, 
which seems to indicate a discontinuous luminous source which is evi- 
dently formed by an infinite number of sparks, succeeding each other 
in rapid succession. 

As to the crackling or rattling noise which accompanies the appear- 
ance of polar light, I cannot say anything positively, since, on the oc- 
casions when I made my observations, the combined noise of the sea 
and the wind was of such a nature as to drown the faint crepitation of 
an electric discharge. It is very jirobable that such a noise can be heard 
under certain circumstances, for instance when the discharge takes place 
at a minimum height, and also when it is made between small particles 
of ice, which produce longer, and consequently stronger, sparks than 
those formed between i^articles of water. As these circumstances which 
arfe necessary for the production of this sound rarely occur, we can un- 
derstand why observers do not agree in regard to the fact of its exist- 
ence. 

Some remarks upon the memoir of M. Lemstrom, hy Professor De la Rive. 

I find in the observations made by M. Lemstrom, in the polar regions, 
such a complete confirmation of the views I have expressed on several 
occasions in regard to the cause and explanation of polar auroras, thai 
I cannot refrain from noticing very briefly some of the points upon which 
observation and theory completely agree. I have generally found myself 
in accord with observers, whether such as Parry, Franklin and Ross, or 
Bravais and Martins ; it is rather between the theorists and myself that 
there has been occasionally some difference. I ought to thank M. Lem- 
strom for the pains he has taken, on every occasion, to mention my ex- 
periments, and the consequences I have deduced from them, the accu- 
racy of which he has confirmed. 



/ELECTRICITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE AND AURORA BOREALIS. 237 

M. Lemstrom proves by a great number of facts, supported by incon- 
testable reasoning, that polar light is due to atmospheric electricity, of 
which he has proved the presence in the polar regions, often in the 
region of clouds, and sometimes even nearer the earth. He shows, as 
I have done, that this light is the consequence of electric discharges, 
which in these regions, constantly pervaded with humidity, operate ia a 
slow, continuous manner, instead of instantaneously by shocks producing 
lightning, as takes place in equatorial regions and middle latitudes. 

He shows, with truth, that terrestrial magnetism, to which an exag- 
gerated importance has been attributed, in the production of xjolar light, 
has only a very secondary part in this phenomenon. This part consists 
simply in giving to the luminous electric jets a certain direction they can 
follow because of their flexibility, which depends upon whether the 
medium through which they pass is gaseous. In sup[)ort of his views in 
this respect, he refers to my experiments, by which I have demonstrated 
this influence, and the law by which, according to Plucker, it is governed. 

One very essential point upon which M. Lemstrom insists, and which 
has been noticed by several observers, particularly by Bravais, is that 
the crown formed in some cases by the rays of polar light is very far 
from having always for center the magnetic zenith; that is to say, the 
vertical line passing through the magnetic pole of the earth. In fact, 
although the formation of this crown depends upon the directing influ- 
ence of the magnetism upon the electric currents which form the lumin- 
ous jets, and is not, as M. Lemstrom very well proves, a simple effect 
of perspective, it must also depend upon the direction of the passage 
of the electric discharges through the atmosphere, a direction which 
itself changes with the conductibility more or less variable of the differ- 
ent atmospheric strata, so that the united effect of these two influences 
ought to give to the rays a curvature and a position which cannot always 
be the same. 

In short, the electric discharges which take place in the polar regions 
between the positive electricity of the atmosphere and the negative 
electricity of the terrestrial globe are the essential and only causes of 
the formation of polar light — light, whose existence is independent of 
that of terrestrial magnetism, which only imparts to it a certain direc- 
tion, and in some cases a movement. These views I have always main- 
tained in opposition to those who think they find in terrestrial magnet- 
ism, or rather, in the currents of induction which it can develop, the 
origin of polar light. 

I will not dwell upon various interesting circumstances, such as the 
presence of a dark segment at the base of the luminous arcs of the 
aurora borealis, in which M. Lemstrom sees, as I do, an analogous effect 
to the dark band produced at the negative-electrode, in electric dis- 
charges through rarifled air ; or such as the iufluence of particles of ice 
suspended in the atmosphere, which I have also noticed. I will confine 
myself to one point which, I confess, had completely escaped me, and 



238EI.ECTBICHT OF IHE ATMOSPHEKE AND AURORA BOKEALIS. 

which is of great importance. Although, in my theory, tlie terrestrial 
currents which result from the electric discharges, the cause of polar 
light, ought to be directed from the north to the south, some are ob- 
served, either in the telegraph-wires or in their action upon the needle 
of the compass, which have a contrary direction, that is from the south 
to the north. The former, it is true, are much the more numerous and 
the more intense ; but still the latter are apparent from time to time. 
M. Lemstrom attributes them to the currents of induction, and the elec- 
tro-motive force which accompanies always the production of an electric 
spark, as M. Edluud discovered. He considers in fact, and with reason, 
the electric discharges which constitute polar light, as a series of an in- 
finite number of sparks, and in this fact found a satisfactory explanation 
of the existence of currents in an opposite direction from that of the 
principal current, which is from north to south. 

The perusal of M. Lemstrom's article, while confirming me in the theo- 
retical views I have advanced in regard to polar auroras, has shown me 
that there still remain many points to be explained of this interesting 
subject, especially in what concerns the propagation of electricity in 
air more or less damp, and reduced to a very low temperature and the 
influence of a very strong magnetism upon the electric discharges taking 
place under these conditions. I intend to pursue the subject with dili- 
gence. 



ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE. 



By Alphonse de Candolle, 

Of Geneva, Switzerland* 



At the jjeriod of the Eenaissance, Latin was the language employed 
by all the learned men of Earope. It had been carefully preserved by 
the Romish Church ; and not one of the modern languages presented, at 
that time, a sufiicientlj'^ rich literature to become its rival. But at a later 
period the Eeformation disturbed the unity of the Komish influence. 
Italian, Spanish, French, and English gained successively regular idi- 
oms, and became rich in literary productions of every kind ; and at last, 
eighty or one hundred years ago at most, the progress of science caused 
the inconvenience of the use of Latin to be felt. It was a dead language, 
and, in addition to that, was wanting in clearness, owing to its inver- 
sions, to its abbreviated words, and to the absence of articles. There 
existed at that time a general desire to describe the numerous discover- 
ies that were being made, and to explain and discuss them without the 
necessity of seeking for words. The almost universal pressure of these 
causes was the reason for the adoption of modern languages in most 
sciences, natural history being the only exception. For this, Latin is 
still employed, but only in descriptions — a special and technical part, 
where the number of words is limited and the construction very regular. 
Speaking truly, what naturalists have preserved is the Latin of Linnteus, 
a language in which every word is i^recise in meaning, every sentence 
arranged logically, clearly, and in a way employed by no Eoman author. 
Linnaeus was not a liuguist. He knew but little even of modern lan- 
guages, and it is evident that he struggled against many difficulties 
when he wrote in Latin. With a very limited vocabulary and a turn of 
miud which revolted equally from the periods of Cicero and the reticence 
of Tacitus, he knew how to create a language precise in its terms, ap- 
propriate to the description of forms, and intelligible to students. He 
never made use of a term without first defining it. To renounce this 
special language of the learned Swede would be to render descriptions 
less clear and less accessible to the savants of all nations. If we attempt 
to translate into the Latin of Linnaeus certain sentences in modern 
floras, written in English or German, we quickly perceive a want of 
clearness. In Euglish, the word smooth applies equally to glahcr and 

■* The fifth chapter of the Histoire des sciences et des savants depuis deux si^cles, 8vo, 
Geneve, ]873. Loudon, Dulan. Translated by Miss Miers, by permission of the author. 
Ann. & Mag. N. Hist., ser. 4, vol. xi. 



240 ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE. 

Iccvls.* In German, tbe construction of sentences indicating generic or 
other characters is sometimes so obscure that I have found it impossi- 
ble, in certain cases, to have them put into Latin by a German, a good 
botanist, who was better acquainted than myself with both languages. 
It would be still worse if authors had not introduced many words purely 
Latin into their language. But, exclusive of paragraphs relative to 
characters, and wherever successive phenomena or theories are in ques- 
tion, the superiority of modern languages is unquestionable. It is on 
this account that, even in natural history, Latin is every day less em- 
I)loyed. 

The loss, however, of the link formerly established between scientific 
men of all countries has made itself felt. From this has arisen a very 
chimerical i^roposal to form some artificial language which should be 
to all nations what writing is to the Chinese. It was to be based on 
Ideas — not words. The problem has remained quite devoid of solution ; 
and even were it possible, it would be so complicated an aftair — so im- 
practicable and inflexible — that it would quickly drop into disuse. 

The wants and the circumstances of each epoch have brought about 
a preference for one or other of the principal European languages as a 
means of communication between enlightened men of all countries. 
French rendered this service during two centuries. At i)resent various 
causes have modified the use of this language in other countries, and 
the habit has been almost everywhere introduced that each nation 
shonid employ its own tongue. We have, therefore, entered ui)ou a 
IDcriod of confusion. What is thought to be new in one country is not 
so to those who read books in other languages. It is vain to study liv- 
ing languages more and more; you are always behindhand in the com- 
plete knowledge of what is being published in other countries. Few 
persons are acquainted with more than two languages ; and if we try 
to i)ass beyond a certain limit iu this respect, we rob ourselves of time 
for other things ; for there is a point at which the study of the means 
of knowledge hinders our learning. Polyglot discussions and conver- 
sations do not answer the intentions of those who attempt them. I a:n 
persuaded that the inconvenience of such a state of things will be more 
and more felt. I also believe, judging by the example of Greek as used 
by the Eomans and French in modern times, that the need of a pre- 
vailing language is almost always recognized ; it is returned to from 
necessity after each period of anarchy. To understand this we must 
consider the causes which make a language preferable, and those which 
spread its employment in spite of any defects it may possess. 

Thus, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, motives existed for 
the employment of French in preference to Latin throughout Europe. 
It was a language spoken by the greater i^art of the educated men of 

* The word glabcr, in botany, means bald or not hairy, which is applied to other parts 
as well as the head ; and Icevis, smooth, not rough ; but I know they have both been care- 
lessly translated "smooth," as M. de Candolle implies. — J. E. G. 



ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE 241 

the period — a language tolerably simple and very clear. It had an ad- 
vantage in its resemblance to Latin, which was then widely known. 
An Englishman, a German, was already half acquainted with French 
through his knowledge of Latin ; a Spaniard, an Italian, was three parts 
advanced in his study of the language. If a discussion were sustained 
in Frencli, if books were written or translations made in this language, 
all the world understood. 

In the present century, civilization has much extended north of France, 
and population has increased there more than to the south. The use of 
the English tongue has been doubled by its extension into America. The 
sciences are more and more cultivated in Germany, in England, in the 
Scandinavian countries, and Eussia. The scientific center of gravity 
has advanced from the south toward the north. 

Under the influence of these new conditions, a language can only be- 
come predominant by presenting two characters : first, it must possess 
sufficient German and Latin words or forms to be within reach at once 
of the Germans and of the people who make use of Latin tongues ; 
secondly, it must be spoken by a considerable majority of civilized people. 
In addition to these two essential conditions, it would be well for the 
definitive success of a language that it should also possess the qualities 
of grammatical simplicity, of conciseness, and clearness. 

English is the only language which may, in fifty or a hundred years 
offer all these conditions united. 

The language is half German and half Latin. It possesses German, 
words, German forms, and also French words, and a French method of 
constructing sentences. It is a transition between the principal lan- 
guages used at present in science, as French was formerly between 
Latin and several of the modern languages. 

The future extension of the Anglo-American tongue is evident. It 
will be rendered inevitable by the movement of the populations in the 
two hemispheres. Here is the proof, which it is easy to give in a few 
words and a few figures. 

At the i)resent time the population stands thus, (Almanach de Gotha, 
1871:*) 

English-speaking peoples in England, 31,000,000; in the United States, 
40,000,000 ; in Canada, &c., 4,000,000; in Australia and New Zealand, 
2,000,000 ; total, 77,000,000. 

German -speaking peoples in Germany and a portion of Austria, 
00,000,000; in Switzerland, (German cantons,) 2,000,000; total, 02,000,000. 
French-speaking peoples in France, 36,500,000 ; in Belgium, (French 
portion,) 2,500,000; in Switzerland, (French cantons,) 500,000; in Alge- 
ria and the colonies, 1,000,000; total 40,500,000. 

Now, judging by the increase that has taken place in the present cen- 
tury, we may estimate the probable growth of population as follows : t 

*No uotice is here taken of the English-speaking people in India and the East. — J. E. G. 
t Almanach de Gotha, 1870, p. 1039. 
16 s 



242 ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE. 

lu Englaud it doubles in fifty years ; therefore, in a century (in 1070) 
it will be 124,000,000. In the United States, in Canada, in Australia, it 
doubles in twenty -five ; therefore it will be 730,000,000. Probable total 
of the English-speaking race in 1970, 860,000,000. 

In German}' the northern population doubles in fifty-six to sixty years; 
that of the south in one hundred and sixty-seven years. Let us sup- 
pose one hundred years for the average. It will probably be, in 1070, 
for the countries of German speech, about 124,000,000. 

In the French speaking countries the population doubles in about 
one hundred and forty years. In 1070, therefore, it will probably 
amount to 00,500,000. 

Thus the three principal languages spoken at the present time will be 
spoken a century hence with the following progression : 

The English tongue will have increased from 77 to 800 millions. 

The German tongue will have increased from 62 to 124 millions. 

Tiie French tongue will have increased from 40i to 60^ millions. 

The individuals speaking German will form a seventh part, and those 
speaking French a twelfth or thirteenth part of those of English tongue; 
and both together will not form a quarter of the individuals speaking 
English. The German or French countries will then stand toward 
those of English speech as Holland or Sweden do at present with re- 
gard to themselves. I am far from having exaggerated the growth of 
the Anglo-Australian-American populations. Judging by the surface 
of the countries they occupy, they will loug continue to multiply in large 
proportion. The English language is, besides, more diffused than any 
other throughout Africa and Southern Asia. America and Australia 
are not, I confess, countries in which the culture of letters and sciences 
is so much advanced as in Europe ; and it is probable that, for a length 
of time, agriculture, commerce, and industry will absorb all the most 
active energies. I acknowledge this. But it is no less a fact that so 
considerable a mass of intelligent and educated men will weigh de- 
cisively on the world in general. These new peoples, English in origin, 
are mingled with a German element, which, in regard to intellectual in- 
clinations, counterbalances the Irish. They have generally a great 
eagerness for learning and for the application of discoveries. They read 
much. Works written in English or translated into that tongue v.'ould, 
in a vast population, have a very large sale. This would be an encour- 
agement for authors and translators that is offered by neither the French 
nor the German language. We know in Europe to what degree diffi- 
culties exist in the publication of books on serious subjects; but open 
an immense mart to publishers, and works on the u:ost special subjects 
will have a sale. When translations are read by ten times as many 
I)eople as at present, it is evident that a greater number of books will 
be translated ; and this will contribute in no small degree toward the 
preponderance of the English language. Many French people already 
buy English translations of German books, just as Italians buy transla- 



ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE. 243 

tious in French. If English or American publishers would adopt the 
idea of having translations made into their language of the best works 
that appear in Russian, Swedish, Danish, Dutch, &c., they would satisfy 
a public dispersed over the whole Viorld, and particularly the numerous 
Germans who understand English. Yet we are but at the beginning of 
the numerical preponderance of the English-speaking populations. 

The nature of a language does not, at first sight, appear to have very 
great influence on its diffusion. French was preferred for two centu- 
ries; and yet Italian was quite as clear, more elegant, more harmonious, 
had more affinity with Latin, and, for a length of time, had possessed a 
remarkable literature. The number, the activity of the French, and the 
geographical position of their country were the causes of their prepon 
derance. Yet the qualities of a language, especially those preferred by 
the moderns, are not without their influence. At the present time brief- 
ness, clearness, grammatical simplicity are admired. Nations, at least 
those of our Indo-European race, began by speaking in an obscure, 
complicated manner; in advancing they have simplified and made their 
language more ])recise. Sanscrit and Basque, two very ancient lan- 
guages, are exceedingly complicated. Greek and Latin are so in less 
degree. The languages derived from Latin are clothed in clearer and 
simpler forms. I do not know how philosophers explain the phenomenon 
of the complication of language at an ancient period ; but it is un- 
questionable. It is more easy to understand the subsequent simplifica- 
tions. When a more easy and convenient method of acting or speaking 
has been arrived at, it is naturally preferred. Besides, civilization en- 
courages individual activity ; and this necessitates short words and short 
sentences. The progress of the sciences, the frequent contact of per- 
sons speaking diflerent languages, and who find a difficulty in under- 
standing each other, lead to a more and more imperious need for clear- 
ness. You must have received a classical education to avoid the per- 
ception of absurdity in the construction of an ode of Horace. Translate 
it literally to an uneducated workman, keeping each word in its place, 
and it will have to him the effect of a building the entrance-door of 
which is on the third story. It is no longer a possible language, even 
in poetry. 

Modern languages have not all, to the same degree, the advantages 
now demanded, of clearness, simplicity, and briefness. 

The French language has shorter words and less complicated verbs 
than the Italian ; this in all probability has contributed to its success. 
The German has not undergone the modern revolution by which each 
sentence or portion of a sentence begins with the principal word. Words 
are also cut in two, and the fragments dispersed. It has three genders, 
whereas French and Italian have but two. The conjugations of many 
verbs are rather complicated. Nevertheless, modern tendencies weigh 
with the Germans, and it is evident that their language is becoming a 
little modified. Scientific authors especially exert themselves to attempt 



244 ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE. 

the direct modes of expression and the short phrases of other countries 
in the same way that they have abandoned the Gothic printed letters. 
Should they correspond with strangers, they often have the politeness 
to write in Latin characters. They willingly introduce in their publica- 
tions terms taken from foreign languages, modifications sometimes 
merely of form, occasionally fundamental. These attest the modern 
spirit and the enlightened judgment of the learned men so numerous 
in Germany. Unhappily, the modifications of form have no great im- 
portance, and the fundamental changes take place very slowly. 

The more practical English language shortens sentences and words. 
It willingly takes possession of foreign words, as German does ; but of 
cabriolet it makes cab ; of memorandum it makes mem. It makes use 
only of indispensable and natural tenses — the present, the j)ast, the 
future, and the conditional. There is no arbitrary distinction of gen- 
ders ; animated objects are masculine or feminine ; the others are neu- 
ter. The ordinary construction is so sure to begin with the principal 
idea, that in conversation you may often dispense with the necessity of 
finishing your sentences. The chief fault of the English language, its 
inferiority in comparison with German or Italian, consists in an orthog- 
raphy absolutely irregular, and so absurd that children take a whole 
year in learning to read.* The pronunciation is not well articulated, 
not well defined. I shall not go as far as Madame Sand in her amusing 
imprecations on this point ; but there is truth in what she says. The 
vowels are not distinct enough. But, in spite of these faults, English, 
according to the same clever writer, is a well-expressed language, quite 
as clear as any other, at least when English people choose to revise 
tJeir MMS., which they will not always do, they are in such a hurry ! 

English terms are adapted to modern wants. Do you wish to hail a 
vessel, to cry " stop " to a train, to explain a machine, to demonstrate 
an experiment in physics, to speak in few words to busy and practical 
people, it is the language par excellence. In comparison with Italian, 
with French, and, above all, with German, English has the efl'ect, to 
those who speak several languages, of offering the shortest cut from 
one point to another. I have observed this in families where two lan- 
guages are equally well known, which often occurs in Switzerland. 
When the two languages are German and French, the latter almost 
always carries the day. "Why?" I asked of a German-Swiss estab- 
lished in Geneva. " I can scarcely tell you," he replied ; "at home we 
speak German to exercise my son in the languages, but he always falls 
back into the French of his comrades. French is shorter — more con- 
venient." Before the events of 1870, a great Alsatian manufacturer 
sent his sou to study at Zurich. I was curious to know the reason why. 
" We cannot," he said, " induce our children to speak German, with 

* Surprised, on one occasion, by the slowness with which intelligent English children 
learned reading, I inquired the reason. Each letter has several sounds, or you may say 
that each sound is written in several ways. It is therefore necessary to learn reading word 
for word. It is an affair of memory. 



ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE. 245 

which they are quite as familiar as with Freuch. I have seut my sou 
to a towu where uothing but Germau is spoken, in order that he may 
be forced to speak it." In such preferences you must not look for the 
causes in sentiment or fancy. When a mau has choice of two roads — 
one straight and open, the other crooked and diflicult to find — he is sure 
to take, almost without reflection, the shorter and more convenient one. 
I have also observed families where the two languages known in the 
same degree were English and French. In this case the English main- 
tained supremacy, even in a French-speaking land. It is handed down 
from one generation to another. It is employed by those who are in 
haste, or who want to say something in as few words as possible. The 
tenacity of French or English families established in Germany in speak- 
ing their own language, and the rapid disappearance of German in the 
German families established in French or English countries, may be ex- 
plained by the nature of tJie languages rather than by the influence of 
fashion or education. 

The general rule is this : In the conflict of two languages, everything 
else being equal, it is the most concise and the most simple that con- 
quers. French beats Italian and German. English beats the othei 
languages. In short, it need onl^" be said that the more simple a lan- 
guage is, the more easy it is to be learned, and the more quickly can it be 
made available for f>rofitable employment. 

The English language has another advantage in family use — its litera- 
ture is the one most suitable to feminine tastes; and every one knows how 
great is the influence of mothers on the language of children. Not only 
do they teach what is called " the mother tongue," but often, when well 
educated, they feel pleasure in speaking a foreign language to their 
children. They do so gayly, gracefully. The young lad who finds his 
language-master heavy, his grammar tiresome, thinks very differently 
when his mother, his sister, or his sister's friend addresses herself to 
him in some foreign tongue. This will often be English, and for the best 
of reasons : there is no language so rich in works (written in a spirit of 
true morality) upon subjects which are interesting to women — religion, 
education, fiction, biography, i)oetry, &c. 

The future preponderance of the language spoken by English, Aus- 
tralians, and Americans thus appears to me assured. The force of cir- 
cumstances leads to tbis result ; and the nature of the language itself 
must accelerate the movement. 

The nations who speak the English tongue are thus burdened with a 
resi)onsibility which it is well they should recognize at once. It is a 
moral responsibility toward the civilized world of the coming centuries. 
Their duty, as it is also their interest, is to maintain the present unity 
of the language, at the same time admitting the necessary or conve- 
nient modifications which may arise under the influence of eminent 
writers, or be arranged by common consent. The danger to be feared 
is that the English language may, before another century has passed, 



2KI ON A DOMINANT LANGUAOK FOR SOIKNCE. 

l»^^ broUfii up into tliivi^ l;ui^uuji(>s, wliich wimltl bo in the siuuo rela- 
tion to (NU'li t)tlior Jis me Italian, Spanish, and l\)rtuy,iK'Sc, or as Swed- 
ish atid l>anisli. 

Some I'jiij^lish aulh«)r8 have :i mania lor maldn{;ne\v words. J)ii'kens 
has invented several. Yet the lOnj^lisli lanj;iiay;e already possesses many 
mor(> words than the l-'riMuh, and the history of its; liti'mturi^ shows 
that tlu^re is yreali^r ni'iMl tosnpprcss than to a^ld to tluMoeabnlai-y. No 
writer for three eiMilnries past lias employed nearly so many dilVcrent 
worths as Shalvesl)ear^^ ; thertMore t!uMt> must have been nmny unneecvs- 
sary ones. Probably every idea and c»very object had formerly a term 
of SaiXon orijuin, and ou(^ of Latin or I'reneh origin, without conntinj;" 
C'eUie or Danish words. Tlu' v«'ry logical oin'ration of tinu^ has been to 
suppress the doubh>or triphMvor<ls. Why re-establish them f A people 
so eeonomieal in its use oi' words does not retpiire nuue than one term 
for eaeh thinji'.* 

The AnuM'ieans, on the otlu'r han<l, makt^ innovations of ae.eiMit or 
orthography, (they almost always si)ell l<tboi(r ''labor," aiul Jiurbour 
'• harbor.'^) The Australians will do the sanui if they tlo not take eare. 
Why should iu>t all possess tlu> noble ambition of j;iviny; to the world 
ont> uniform eoneise laiiji'uaii'e, supported by an imnuMise literature, and 
spok(M» in the next century by eii^ht hundred or one thousand millions 
of eivili/ed nuMi ? To other lan{>uajjes it would be as a vast mirror, in 
which (nu'h would bi>conu> rellected, thanks to U(nvspa[)ersaud translations, 
and all the frieiuls of intelUn'tiial culture would have a convenient 
medium for tlu^ intercliaum^ of ideas. It would be renderiug an inunense 
service to futurt^ racivs, and at the sanu> time the authors and men of 
sciiMU'e <)f lOuii'lish speakiuji' race wn)nld t;ive a. strong;' impulsion to their 
own ideas. The Americans, above all, are interested in this stability, 
since their country is to be the nu>st itnportant of those of Knji'lish 
tongue. Ilow can they ae(|uire a greater iidluence over Old England 
than by speaking her language with exactness ? 

The liberty of action permitted among peo[)le of lOnglish race adds 
to the danger of a division in the language. Happily, however, certain 
causes which broke up the Ii;itin language do not exist for lOnglish na- 
tions. The llomaiis CDmiuennl natii)ns the idioms of which were uiaiu- 
tained or re-appeared here and there in spite ot administrative unity. 
The AnuM-ii'aus and Australians, on the contrary, have before them only 
savages, who «lisappi>ar without leaving any trace. The Komans were 
con(|uered and dismembered in their turn by the barbarians. Of their 
aui'ient civilization no evidence of unity remained, unless it was in the 
Ohuri'h, which has itself felt the intlueace of the universal decline. The 
Anu>rieans and Australians possess nmny nourishing schools; they 
have the literature of England as well as their own. If tliey choose, 

* A rJoviM- Eiipflish writer has just publislioil u volume on tl\o institutions of tho people 
ctillod iN'jr».s\s m Eiij^fUsh. llo ntiinos tlioui Switzvrs. For what reason V Will there soon bo 
DctUschcrs ' 



ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE. 247 

tlioy call wield tlieir influence by means of maintaining the unity oi' the 
liin^iiii^e. Certain <;ircun>.stance« make it i)()8sible I'or them to do so 5 
thus (he teiielieis and i)i()lessors mostly come IVom the States of New 
Enjiiand. If these inlluential men truly comprehend the destiny ol' 
their country, they will use every effort to transmit the language in its 
l)urity; they will follow classic authors, and discard local innovations 
and ex[)ressions. In this question of language, real patriotism (or, if 
you will, the patriotism of Americans really ambitious for their country) 
ought to be, to speak the English of Old England, to imitate the pro- 
nunciation of the I'juglish, and to follow their whimsical orthography 
until changed by themselves. Should they obtain this oi" their country- 
men, they would render to all luitions and to their own an unquestiona- 
ble benelit for luturity. 

The exaniple of England proves the inlluence of education u[)on the 
unity of a language. It is the habitual contact of educated people and 
the perusal of the same books which, little by little, is causing the dis- 
appearance of Scotch words ami accent. A few years more, and the 
language will be uniform throughout Great Britain. The principal 
newspapers, edited by abhi n)en, also exercise a happy inlluence in pre- 
serving unity. Whole columns of the "Times" are written in the Ian. 
guage of Macaulay and Bulwer, and are read by millions of people. 
The result is an impression which maintains the public mind in a proper 
literary attitude. 

In America the newspaper articles are not so well written; but the 
schools are accessible to all classes, and the universities count among 
their professors men especially accomplished in their use of the li^nglish 
tongue. If ever there should arise a doubt in the oi)iiii()ns of the two 
countries as to the advisability of modifying the orthography, or even 
nudiiug changes in the language, it would be an excellent plan to organ- 
ize a meeting of delegates from the princii)al univcnsities of the Three 
Kingdoms, of America, and Australia, to [)r()pose and discuss such 
changes. Doubtless they would have the good sense to make as few 
innovations as possible ; and, thanks to common cojjsent, the advi(;e 
would probably be followed. A few modilications in the orthograi)hy 
alone would render the English language more easy to strangers, and 
would contribute toward the maintenance of unity in pronunciation 
throughout Anglo-American countries. 

NOTES BY DR. JOHN EDWARD GRAY, OF THE IJRITISH MUSEUM. 

It may be observed, in addition, that the i)eo[)le who use the English 
language in different [)arts of the world arc a reading and a book-buying 
people, and especially given to the study of quasi-scientili(5 books, as is 
proved by the fact of the extensive sale which they command. 

In support of this assertion, I may quote the Baron Eerussac's re- 
view of Wood's " Index Testaceologicus,'' in the Bull. Sci. Nat,, Paris, 
1829, p. 375. He remarks : ' 



248 ON A DOMINANT LANGUAGE FOR SCIENCE. 

" We observe with interest the immber of subscribers that exist in 
England for an octavo volume on shells, costing 186 francs. It is a 
curious fact, which booksellers and authors will appreciate, as it will 
aflbrd them the means of seeing how a return is obtained for their out- 
lay on such works in England, compared with other countries. The 
number of subscribers is 280, of which 34 are females and 6 foreigners. 
Certainly all the rest of Europe could not produce as many, nor per- 
haps even the half of that number." 

How much more astonished would M. Ferussac have been, if in- 
formed that these were only the subscribers before publication, and that 
1,000 copies were sold ! Since 1829 the sale of scientific books has 
much increased, as is showu, for example, by the many editions of the 
works of Lyell and other naturalists, each edition being of 1,000 copies. 

Most scientific books in France and other continental countries can 
only be published when the government furnishes the cost ; r.ud they 
are chiefly published in an expensive form as a national display, aud 
are almost confined to their public libraries, except the sale of copies 
that are bought by English collectors. 

In England such works are generally published by individual enter- 
prise, aud depend on the general public for their support, and are pub- 
lished in a style to suit the different classes. Thus there are works of 
luxury for the rich, often published by individuals who confine them- 
selves to the production of that class of books; very cheap works for 
the student aud mechanic; and books of all intermediate grades, pro- 
duced by the regular publishers. The females of all grades are ex- 
tensive readers of this class of books, which, I believe, is chiefly the 
case with English-speaking races. 

Some of the scientific Swedes and Russians have published their 
papers in the English language, or appended an abstract in English to 
them, as Thorell on European Spiders ; Professor Lilljeborg on Lysi- 
anassa, and Professor Wackerbarth on the Planet Leda, &c. The 
Danes and Dutch often publish their scientific papers in French, as 
Temminck, Reinhardt, and the late Professor Van der Hoeven, who 
themselves read and write English ; but it appears they regard French 
as the polite language of courts, and forget that courtiers, generally, 
have a contempt for science, and that they should look among the 
people for their readers. 

It is to be observed that Professor de Caudolle himself uses the 
French language with a very English construction ; but we believe that 
his work would have commanded the greatest number of readers if 
written in the English language, which he reads and writes so fluently. 

See, also, Mr. Galton's interesting article on the Causes which create 
Scientific Men, in the " Fortnightly Review" for March, 1873, p. 316, 
which contains some interesting observations on M. de Candolle's work. 



ON UNDERGROUND TEMPERATURE. 



Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by Charles A. Schott, of the U. S. Coast 

Survey. 



The earth's solid crust being hotter than the mean temperature of the 
lower atmosphere resting on its surface, heat is constantly and very 
slowly- passing outward, and strata of equal depth would have very 
nearly uniform temperatures but for the influence of the daily, the annual, 
and the irregular variations of the atmospheric temperature, received by 
conduction. The solar heat then acts as a disturbance of the thermal 
equilibrium, and the depth of the stratum of the so-called "invariable 
temperature," i. e., when the changes escape ordinary observation or 
become less than 0°. 01 C, as generally defined, is found about 6 meters 
below the surface in the tropics, and about 30 meters below the surface 
in the middle latitudes. The corresponding depths at which the daily 
variations become imperceptible are 0.3 meter and 1.3 meter very nearly. 
These numbers, however, depend greatly on the kind of soil or rock, 
and will differ considerably for loose soil of greater or less porosity 
and for solid rock. Our records of observations are very scanty and 
deficient in range, and barely afford the necessary data to form a basis 
of calculation, on account of the many conditions which enter into the 
problem. 

It would appear from experience that the mean temperature of the 
air, as ordinarily observed, say at an elevation of 1 or 2 meters above 
ground, is slightly higher than the mean temperature of the surface of 
the soil. The mean temperature of the earth's crust increases from the 
surface, with increasing depth, and with a nearly uniform rate for 
moderate depths, with an average amount of about 28 meters for each 
degree of the centigrade scale, and the temperature at the depth of in- 
variable heat nearly equals the mean annual atmospheric temperature 
of the place, but slightly exceeds it in amount. For greater depths the 
descent to produce an increase of 1° C. is greater than the amount given 
above. With increase of depth the amplitude of change is rapidly 
diminishing, and for a depth increasing arithmetically the amplitudes 
diminish in geometrical ratio; also the depth at which the daily and 
annual variations, respectively, disappear is in proportion of the square 
root of the length of these periods, or about 1 to 19. The amplitude Ai) 
has been represented in the form, log J p = A — J^p, where A and B are 
constants to be determined at the place, and j9 the depth. Observa- 
tions by Quetelet at Brussels, for instance, give the following result: 
log Ap = 1.15108 — 0.04119^9, (amplitude in degrees centigrade and jp in 



250 



ON UNDERGROUND TEMPERATURE. 



feet.) At this place the following mean temperatures and epochs of 
maxima have been obtained : 



Depth in feet. 


Mean tempera- 
ture. 


Epochs of maxima. 


Depth in feet. 


Mean tempera- 
ture. 


Epochs of maxima. 


0.00 
0.58 
1.38 
2.31 


° C. 

"ass 

10.17 
10.56 


July 20. 
July 25, 
August 2. 
August 7. 


° G. 
3.08 
6. liO 
12. 00 
24.00 


11.03 

11. CI 
12.05 

12. 06 


August 10. 
September 6. 
October i). 
December 12. 



At Edinburgh the following results were obtained 



Depth ia meters. 


Mean tempera- 
ture. 


Amplitude. 


Depth in meters. 


Mean tempera- 
ture. 


Amplitude. 


0.91 
1.83 


° 0. 
7.93 
8.08 


° 0. 

8.3 
5.6 


3.66 
7.32 


o G. 
8.30 

8.47 


o G. 

2.8 
0.6 



For the greatest depth, the time required for the heat-wave to reach 
it is nearly sis months, making the snrface maximum temperature co- 
incident with the minimum temperature of the stratum, 7.32 meters 
below. 

In the case of Chicago, we may take the mean annual temperature of 
the atmosphere just above the surface=8o.l7 C. ; that of the surface of 
the soil = 80.0 C. The increase for a depth of 12.2 meters lor the lowest 
stratum of clay and to the rock-surface will be 0^.44 C, making 80.44 0. 
for this depth. The invariable temperature may be estimated about 9 or 
10 C, and may be found at a depth between 30 and 40 meters, the 
variations being transmitted to a greater depth in rock than in clay. 
At the surface of the rock the variations of temperature will probably 
yet amount to 0°.!, (according to the Edinburgh observations.) For a 
depth of 229 meters, corresponding to the depth from which the well- 
water flows, the increase of heat should amount to 8o.2 C, according to 
the mean given above; hence the computed temperature 16o.2 0. But 
the observed temperature is only 120.8 C, showing either a much slower 
rate of increase (1° C. in 48 meters) or a local deviation, probably due 
to infiltration of water from a higher level. Whether the lake-water, 
which is colder at the same depth than solid matter would be, can 
exert an influence by conduction, I do not know. 

Prof. J. D. Everett, chairman of the committee of the British Asso- 
ciation for the Advancement of Science, on the subject of underground 
temperature has published a number of valuable reports The follow- 
ing is an extract from a recent communication of his to the Belfast 
Natural History and Philosophical Society : 

" The phenomena of underground temperature may conveniently be 
classed under two heads, according as attention is directed to the tirst 
forty or fifty feet, or to such depths as are attained in mines and artesian 
wells. 



ON UNDERGROUND TEMPERATURE. 251 

" The annual wave of temperature is propagated downward from tlie 
surface, at a rate which depends on the nature of the soil, and is on the 
average rather greater than a foot per week ; while at the same time the 
amplitude (or magnitude) of the wave diminishes in a ratio also de- 
pendent on the soil, and amounting on the average to a halving of the 
amplitude for every five or six feet of descent. 

" Supposing the soil to be uniform, the surface to be plane, and the 
propagation of heat to be effected solely by conduction, a simple har- 
monic variation of temperature at the surface (which we may call in 
popular language a simple wave of temperature) will be propagated 
downward with a uniform velocity, and with amplitude diminishing in 
geometrical progression. There will, moreover, be a defiuite relation 
between the ratio of this progression and the velocity of propagation, 
so that if the one is given the other can be computed. In fact, we shall 
have — 

f) _ time of i)ropagation from one depth to another 
period of variation 

amplitude at 1st depth 

= Napierian logarithm of 

amplitude at 2d depth 



difference of d epths frt o 
-v/period of vi 



depths J7tc 
variation^ ^^ 



where - denotes 3.1416; c, thermal capacity per unit-voluuie; and. A, con- 
ductivity.* 

" If the variation of temperature at the surface, instead of being simple 
harmonic, be any periodic variation whatever, it can be reduced by 
Fourier's method to the sum of a number of simple harmonic variations, 
and each of these variations will be propagated according to the above 
law, unaffected by the rest. 

" As the square root of the number of days in the year is almost exactly 
19, the above formula shows that the annual wave is propagated 19 times 
as fast as the diurnal wave, and that the falling off in amplitude is tlie 
same in one foot for the diurnal wave as in 19 feet for the annual wave. 

" Of the different simple harmonic components which make up the 
whole variation at the surface, those of longest period are propagated 
downward most quickly, and die away most slowly. For this reason, 

*The numerical value of the co-efficient^ /-_? as given in Professor Everett's Discus- 



^'-i-" 



siou of the Observations at tbe Greenwich Observatory, 1860, is as follows: 

From the Greenwich observations 0.0918 

From Caltou Hill, trap-rock 0.115t> 

From Experimental Garden, sand 0.1098 

From Craigleith Quarry, sandstone 0.0674 

fhe diminution of /!^ indicates either a decrease in capacity for heat or an increase 
in conductivity. 



252 ON UNDERGROUND TEMPERATURE. 

as well as from its greater original magnitude, the annual simple har- 
monic wave becomes more and more predominant as we descend, and 
the curve of temperature for the year approaches more and more nearly 
to the form of a simple harmonic curve, or curve of sines. 

" Observations taken at three stations in or near Edinburgh, and at 
Greenwich Observatory, have been reduced in accordance with the above 
principles, the result being in every case to show a satisfactory agree- 
ment between theory and practice ; and the values of the thermal co- 
efficient - thus obtained for these four stations, have furnished the basis 
k 

of the most reliable calculations yet made regarding the earth's age as 
a habitable globe. For the three Edinburgh stations the value of c 
(which is the product of specific heat by specific gravity) was also de- 
termined by laboratory experiments conducted by Eegnault, and hence 
the conductivity, fc, was found by computation. 

" The following is a sample of the temperatures observed at Greenwich 
at the depths of 1 inch, 12.8 feet, and 25.6 feet. The warmest and coldest 
calendar months had the following mean temperatures : 

Warmest. Mean temp. Coldest. Mean temp. 

1 inch July 65. 9 January 40. 5 

3 feet August 62. 5 February 41. 1 

12. 8 feet September 55. 5 April 46. 1 

25. 6 feet November 52. June 48. 6 

" The mean temperature at a depth of 10, 20, or 30 feet does not differ 
much from the mean temperature at the surface. A slight increase is, 
however, usually observable even at these small depths ; and, when we 
penetrate to the depth of several hundred feet, we find the temperature 
higher by several degrees than the mean temperature of the surface. 
In fact, the deeper we go the higher is the temperature which we find. 

"Attempts were formerly made to explain away this phenomenon, the 
high temperatures observed in deep mines being ascribed to the pres- 
ence of the men working in tliem, assisted in some cases by the slow 
combustion of j)yrites ; but the fact of a steady increase downward, at 
a rate which is not exactly uniform, but varies from about l'^ Fahr. in 
100 feet to 1° Fahr. in 40 feet, has now been placed beyond all question." 

Theoretical investigations will be found in Fourier's Theorie ana- 
lytique de la chaleur, Paris, 1822 ; in Poissou's Traite mathematique de 
la chaleur, Paris, 1835. See also various papers by Quetelet in the Mem. 
de I'Acad. roy. de Bruxelles ; also, Piazzi Smyth in Astronomical Ob- 
servations at the Royal Observatory at Edinburgh ; Forbes and his 
own Observations, vol. xi, for 1849-'54, and vol. xiii, for 1860-'70. A fair 
statement of the subject is found in Schmid's Meteorology, Leipsic, 
18G0. See, also, J. D. Forbes's " Experiments on the Temperature of the 
Earth," in Trans. E. S. E., 1846 ; Sir W. Thomson " On the Reduction of 
Observationsof Underground Temperature,"iu Trans. R. S. E., 1860; "On 
the Age of the Sun's Heat," in Macmillan's Magazine, March, 1862 ; " On 



ON UNDERGROUND TEMPERATURE. 253 

the Secular Cooling of the Earth," in Trans. E. S. E., 1862, (reprinted at 
the end of Thomson and Tait's " Treatise on Natural Philosophy ;") "The 
Doctrine of Uniformity in Geology Briefly Eefuted,"in Proc. E. S, E., De- 
cember, 1865; "On Geological Time," in Trans. Geol. Soc, Glasgow, vol. 
Ill, part I ; " Of Geological Dynamics," in Trans. Geol. Soc, Glasgow, vol. 
Ill, part II ; J. D. Everett " On a Method of Eeducing Observations of 
Underground Temperature," in Trans. E. S. E., 1860; " On the Mean Tem- 
perature of a Stratum of Soil," in Trans. E. S. E., 1862 ; " Eeduction of 
the Observations of the Deep-sunk Thermometers," in Greenwich Ob- 
servations, 1860 ; "Eeports of Committee on Eate of Increase of Under- 
ground Temperature," in B. A. Eeports, from 1868 onward. 



ON A SERIES OF EARTHQUAKES IN NORTH CAROLINA, COM- 
MENCING ON THE lOTH OF FEBRUARY, 1874. 



By Professor Warren du Pafe, 
Of Wofford College, Spartanburgh, S. C. 



The followiug is an extract from a letter of the 24th April, 1874, from 
Professor Du Pr6 to General Benjamin Alvord, U. S. Army : 

"My visit to tiie mountains of North Carolina was undertaken to 
satisfy myself with respect to the numerous rumors which had reached 
us of the volcanic disturbances in that section of the country, I could 
spend but two days (19th and 20th March) in the investigation, but 
was quite diligent in collecting facts and in extending my explorations 
on horse and on foot so as to cover a distance of eighteen or twenty 
miles. I was soon convinced that the physical disturbances were real, 
but many of the rumors were false, and that the truth had been much 
exaggerated by the fears of the people. The explosive noises accom- 
panying the shocks and the limited area of the disturbances are peculi- 
arities worthy the attention of scientists, and demand a more thorough 
explora:;ion. The inclosed is a hasty report of my trip, which I drew 
up to allay, if possible, the fears of the inhabitants of the district. 

Stone Mountain, the site of the disturbances, like all the neighboring 
peaks, is composed chiefly of gneiss and granitic slates, and covered 
with a dense forest growth. In a direct line, it is about fourteen miles 
from Black Mountain, or '' Mount Mitchell," the highest j^oint in tbe 
United States east of the Rocky Mountains. Tt lies between Broad 
and Catawba Elvers, both of which point to Black Mountain, while 
on the northwest side of the Blue Eidge, the Swannanoah and Green 
Elvers, tributaries of the French Broad, have their sources near the 
Black Mountain. So many large rivers, on both sides of tbe Blue Eidge, 
heading up in this section, would indicate Black Mountain as the cen- 
ter of the volcanic force which litted up these mountain-ridges. I ex- 
pect to visit these mountains again in July, when I shall have more 
time to investigate this matter.*" 

Extracts from report above referred to, dated Spartanburgh, S. C, March 28, 

1874. 

On Wednesday, the 18th of March, in company with Eev. E. C. 
Oliver, editor of The Orphans' Friend, Mr. McKenn Johnstone, civil 

* Professor Du Pr6 has been requested to communicate a report of this projected trip. 
Further data remain to be gleaned, as the phenomena appear to have continued, at least, 
up to April. 



EARTHQUAKES IN NORTH CAROLINA. 255 

engiueer, and the senior class of Wofford College, 1 started for Hickory 
Nut Gap, lor the purpose of making such personal observations as my 
limited time would permit, and of collecting and sifting all the testi- 
mony that I could gather from the inhabitants of the aifected region. 
At Rutherfordtou, we were joined by Capt. William Twifcty, au edu- 
cated gentleman, who gave us much ass-Istauce in our explorations. 

To understand the bearing of the facts and testimony upon the question 
whether these disturbances threaten a volcanic eruption, as a prelimi- 
nary, I shall describe, as clearly as I can, the situation of this mount- 
ain. Five miles east of Hickory Nut Gap, lies this high mountain- 
ridge, bearing upon its back several i)eaks, the highest of which are called 
Bald, Stone, and Round Mountains, and extending from southwest to 
northeast, a distance of ten miles, in the order in which they are named. 
They constitute one mountain-ridge from 3,000 to 3,500 feet high, flanking 
the Blue Ridge, nearly parallel with it, bounded on the east by Crooked 
Creek, and on the west by Broad River, which, with its narrow valley, 
separates them from the high ridge of mountains that border the east- 
ern side of Hickory Nut Gap. 

Directing our course along the eastern slope, we came first to the 
honse of Rev. Mr. Logan, a Baptist minister, from whom we learned 
that the noises and shocks were first heard and felt in Stone Mountain, 
on Tuesday, the 10th of February; that they were repeated on the fol- 
lowing Sunday, with increased severity, so much so that the people sent 
for him, a distance of ten miles, to hold religious meetings with them; 
that he and his wife heard the explosions, and felt the shocks repeatedly 
day and night, once causing the lightning-rods attached to his chimneys 
to rattle considerably, the sky being clear, and no wind blowing ; that 
the sounds came from the direction of Stone and Bald Mountains, were 
at first explosive, followed by a slight rumbling lasting for a few seconds, 
similar to a blast from a stone-quarry; that the shocks were almost in- 
stantaneous with the explosions, very rapid, making the ground trem- 
ble for a few seconds. In response to an iuquirj^, whether any one was 
blasting rock about the mountains, he replied that none could be found, 
and there was but one quarry, thirty -three miles distant in an opposite 
direction, and that had not been worked for several months past. 

After going two or three miles further, we turned to the left, and 
were ascending Fork Knob, over which the road leads to the top of 
Stone Mountain, when a loud explosion in the direction of Stone Mount- 
ain startled us all. It was instantly followed by a low reverberatory 
sound, as if descending the slope of the mountain. We felt no shocks, 
which was due, no doubt, to the steep and stony road over which our 
buggies were passing at the time. This was on the 19th, at 5. p. m. Two 
of our company who had preceded us a mile, and were about a half 
mile from the top of Stone Mountain, heard the report, and also felt the 
ground tremble under them. The sound resembled the suppressed but 
sudden report of a quarry-blast, and seemed to come through the mount- 



256 EARTHQUAKES IN NORTH CAROLINA, 

ain. We arrived about sunset at Mr. Elliott's, whose house is situated 
in a dei)ression between Round and Stone Peaks, about a half mile from 
the top of the latter. From Elliott's house, Eound Mountain bears north 
37^ west, Stone Mountain south 73"^ west, and are about a half or three- 
quarters of a mile distant from each other. This house being about the 
center of the greatest agitation, and whence most of the exaggerated 
rumors had their origin, we determined to remain all night, and I 
kept watch until about two o'clock. ******* 
The next morning I gathered from Mr. and Mrs. Elliott, in answer to 
many inquiries, the following statement : " The first noise and shakes (as 
the shocks are very expressively denominated by the mountain people) 
were heard and felt on Tuesday, 10th February— some of them were 
felt as far as White House, on Cove Creek, eight miles distant. Sunday 
morning these sounds and shakes were repeated with increased severity, 
one a little after sunrise, another at 10, and another at 2 o'clock in the 
night ; noises continued, some with shakes, and some without, until 
Thursday following, with intervals of about an hour or two. The 
house — a stout log building — shook so violently that the children be- 
came very much alarmed, all thinking it would fall. A ladder resting 
upon a support in the yard rattled frequently, and the ground seemed 
to tremble under their feet. The noise began like explosions of a quarry- 
blast, in the northwest, and west off to the southeast, with a rumbling 
sound under ground. The weather was quite variable, sometimes cloudy 
and rainy, at other times clear and cool. The people about the mount- 
ain were very much alarmed ; had preaching and prayer-meetings 
daily for a week or more, and forty-five new members were added to 
the Baptist church." 

About 9 o'clock in the morning of the 20th we began the exploration 
of Stone Mountain. From the base to the summit it is covered with a 
dark rich soil, about a foot deep, partly cleared and cultivated, but 
mostly clothed with a growth of heavy timber, consisting of chestnut and 
oak. The granite slates, about the thickness of flag-stones, scattered 
over the surface, indicate that the formation does not differ from most 
of the surrounding peaks. Near its highest point several large blocks 
of coarse granite protrude through the soil to the height of about 10 feet 
above the surface. Owing to the depth of the soil and the slight ex- 
posure of the rocky formations, I could not ascertain the direction or 
angle of the dip. Xo specimens were found which resembled what are 
usually called volcanic rocks. The mountain appeared as calm and 
peaceful as if it had never been disturbed since the morning of its up- 
heaval. It presented no cavernous depths or rugged prominences to ex- 
cite the fears of the dwellers, upon its slopes. A dozen or more of the 
mountaineers had followed us everywhere in the exploration, and, 
although much alarmed at the frequent agitations of this hitherto stable 
mountain, yet they unanimously contradicted the many rumors of gap- 
ing rocks, smoking peaks, sinking caverns, melting snows, &c., with 



'^EARTHQUAKES IN NORTH CAROLINA. 257 

which our newspapers have been teeming for many weeks past. We 
remained on the summit for some time, hoping for an opportunity to 
determine whether the explosions came from the east or west side of 
the mountain, or from the ground under our feet. As nothing occurred 
to settle this question, we descended the western slope to Mrs. Murphy's 
saw-mill, about eight miles from the head of Broad Eiver. A portion 
of our party, who had passed two miles around the base of the moun- 
tain, heard three loud explosions, and felt two distinct shocks proceeding 
directly from the peak which we had left but one hour before. This 1 
did not hear or feel, as I was engaged at the time in taking notes of the 
testimony of Mr. T. J. Dalton, amid the rumbling of machinery and the 
roar of the mill-dam. 

It is unnecessary to give, in detail, all the testimony which we col- 
lected from the people while passing along the eastern and western 
side of this mountain, including a d»istance of eighteen miles. They all 
concurred in the following summary : That there were certain days marked 
by loud reports and severe shakes ; that from fifty to seventy-five shocks 
have been felt since the 10th of February ; that the noise begins with 
an explosion like a quarry-blast, followed by a rumbling sound, lasting 
only a few seconds ; that the shocks are simultaneous, or almost so, with 
the reports, and seem to follow the direction of the rumbling sound, 
with this exception, that those near the top of the mountain assert they 
appear to be under and all around them ; that the reports all came from 
the Stone and Bald Mountain Ridge, those living on the east side point- 
ing to the west, and those on the west pointing to the east for the di- 
rection of sounds; that these reports occur as often during the night as 
the day, in fair weather as in foul ; that the effects are felt five miles on 
each side of the mountain-ridge, and extend from Broad Eiver on the 
southwest to Catawba on the north, a distance of twenty-five miles; 
that houses shake, trees with their dead leaves tremble, glasses and 
crockery rattle, shavings in their workshops shake and "quaver," as 
one expressed it. 

This testimony was collected from thirty or forty men and women of 
different degrees of intelligence, and their remarkable concurrence in 
the above statement places the facts beyond the possibility of doubt. 

Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain these facts. One 
is, that the blasting of rock about the mountains will account for all of 
them. Upon this point we made particular inquiry. There is certainly 
no operation going on about Stone Mountain, and as the work upon the 
tunnels in Swannanoah Gap has ceased for more than twelve months, 
there is no occasion for blasting anywhere else, as fine stones for build- 
ing purposes, of every form and size, are scattered over all these regions. 
Besides, any one acquainted with the law of sound knows that the vibra- 
tory motion communicated to the matter in the crust of the earth .by a 
blast (supposing it capable of extending to a great distance) will be felt 
much sooner than the undulations of the atmosphere, which transmit 
17 s 



258 EARTHQUAKES IN NORTH CAROLINA. 

sounds. A person, therefore, standing ii thousand yards from a quarry 
feels the trembling of the earth some time before he hears the sound of 
the blast. But in all these convulsions of the mountain the concurrent 
testimony is that the sounds and shocks arc either simultaneous or 
nearly so. The blasting of rock, therefore, cannot account for this im- 
j)ortant fact. 

Another hypothesis is, that these effects may be the result of elec- 
tricity escaping from the mountain to the cloud, or descending from the 
cloud to the mountain. There is nothing in the known operations of 
electricity to produce effects of this kind. Furthermore, these sounds 
and shocks occur as often in fair as foul weather; and the sounds are 
altogether different, as we had an opportunity of comparing them during 
our lirst night's stay ujjou the mountain. Electricity never explodes 
unless it meets with a bad conductor, and as the mountain affords it 
an easy transit, the explosion must take place somewhere between the 
summit and the cloud, or along the line of its pathway. The explo- 
sion, therefore, being in the air, must be subject to the same laws of 
sound as the blast of the quarry, and the same method of reasoning 
will apply in this case as in the other. 

The simultaneousness of the shocks and explosions proves that the 
sound has not far to travel through the air to reach the observer; and 
while the primary cause of the explosions may be deeply seated in the 
earth, yet the immediate cause of the sounds may be at or near the sur- 
face. It is known that the loudness and intensity of sounds depend 
upon tlie amplitude of the sound-wave. Suppose, then, that the cause 
of these explosions be deeply seated in the crust of the earth, the force 
acting and reacting upon the superincumbent strata will impart its 
vibrations to them and transmit through them its impulsions to the 
atmosphere above.* I am inclined, therefore, to the opinion that most 
of the noises accompanying earthquakes are the results of vibratory 
movements in the earth's crust, or are the secondary effects of a force 
acting at great depths beneath. This opinion seems to be sustained by 
the evidence of the witnesses upon the summit as well as five miles 
from the base of Stone Mountain, all of whom concur as to the simul- 
taneousness of the shocks and explosions. To this it may be objected 
that earthquake-shocks are often unaccompanied with noises, or that 
the former may precede the latter by several minutes. In reply, I will 
state that the crust of the earth is composed of different strata, some 
capable of transmitting vibrations that are audible and others that are 
not, as a string may be made to vibrate and yet produce no audible 
sound. iSTow, suppose our observer to be standing upon a section of the 
earth's crust which is incapable of receiving or imparting sound-vibra- 

* This explanation is undoubtedly correct ; the velocity of the sound-wave in the earth is 
the same as that of the wave of percussion ; or, in other words, the two are identical. An 
car, therefore, placed at the surface of the ground would at any point hear a sound simul- 
taneously with the shock. J. H. 



I 



EARTHQUAKES IN NORTH CAROLINA. 259 

tious, lie may feel the earthquake-sliocks and yet bear no noise; or, if 
sounds should reach him after an interval of time, they may come from 
a distant section capable of producing them, but which mnst be trans- 
mitted to his ear through the intervening atmosphere. 

This discussion leads me to the conclusion that the phenomena con- 
nected with the agitation of Stone Mountain must be referred to that 
general volcanic or eartliqualie force, which seems as necessary to the 
economy of nature as light, heat, or electricity. I am not bold enough 
to venture a theory sufliciently broad to explain these peculiar phenom- 
ena. I cannot penetrate the earth to examine the configuration of its 
inner surface. There may be broad and high arches under which the 
earth quake- wave may move without disturbing the crust above; or 
there may be deep depressions presenting walls, against which the mol- 
ten tide may beat and break and send up its thundering vibrations to 
the summit of the loftiest mountain. All this is hypothetical and un- 
satisfactory. But although we are not sufliciently acquainted with the 
nature of this force, its modes of action and the laws which govern it, 
to suggest a theory capable of explaining all the phenomena, yet we 
may examine the facts with reference to the probability of Stone Moun- 
tain becoming an eruptive volcano. While the explosive character of 
the sounds, simultaueousness of sounds and shocks, and the limited 
area of agitation seem to indicate some local cause, yet the general rule 
which regulates the distribution of volcanoes on continents seems to 
militate against such a conclusion. Volcanoes are arranged along the 
border regions of continents, as between the Pacific and Eocky Moun- 
tains, on islands of the coast, or oceanic islands. They are generally 
confined to the borders of larger oceans and are seldom found in the 
interior of continents. There are none in America east of the Andes 
antl Eocky Mountains, and no remains of volcanic action have ever been 
found along the Appalachian range. These are important facts, indi- 
cating no chance results, but pointing to a natural law which regulated 
their geographical distribution. And when we consider, too, that vol- 
canoes, with but few exceptions, are only a few miles from the sea or 
lake ; that the Blue Eidge, of which Stone Mountain is only an append- 
age, is two hundred and fifty miles from the xitlantic, and presents no 
marks of former eruptive action, we cannot believe that in these latter days 
it will behave itself unseemly and do violence to that natural law which 
planted it in the garden-spot of the South, and gave to the Carolinas 
the grandest, loveliest scenery on the Appalachian range. 

[The following suggestions may be considered as a j)ossible solution 
of the phenomena in question : It is a well-established fact in geology 
that the surface of the earth has undergone and is undergoing changes. 
The highest mountain-chains have been in past geological periods be- 
neath the surface of the sea, as is evident from the marine shells which 
are found in their strata. It is also well established that some portions 
of the earth's surface are at present gradually rising and others slowly 



2(10 EARTHQUAKES IN NORTH CAROLINA. 

falling. Now, if we assume that the region around Stone Mountain is 
undergoing a very gradual elevation or depression, then it will follow 
that the rocky strata will be brought into a condition of stretcliing or 
tension which will go on until the limit of elastic cohesion is reached, 
when a rupture or crack will suddeuly take place which must be at- 
tended with a jar, and, in some cases, with an audible sound. If the 
rocky strata is of the same material from the surface down into the inte- 
rior ; for example, granite, and the mountain being in the process of 
depression, the crack will take place deep in the interior. If, on the 
other hand, the mountain is being elevated, the crack will be at the 
surface. If, however, the upper strata are more extensible than the 
deeper seated, the crack may be in the interior in the case of an eleva- 
tion as well as in that of a depression. 

It has of late years been suspected, from the discrepancy in later 
and older measurements of points on the Andes, that this mountain 
system is in a state of very slow subsidence. 

If the foregoing views are correct there is no indication of a volcanic 
outburst; and whatever moral effect the disturbances may have on 
the character of the inhabitants of the region, there is little danger as 
to any j^hysical changes taking place of sufficient intensity to endanger 
life.— J. H.] 



REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS 
AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA, FROM JUNE, 1872, TO 
JUNE, 1873. 



By Prof. A. De La Rive, President. 



[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Gentlemen : Called a second time, tbrougli your kindness, to preside 
over you, again I have the lionor to present the annual report of such of 
your transactions as your president has considered it desirable to register. 
Happily, this year, that part of the report appropriated to biographical 
notices is extremely brief. The society, after the great losses it sustained 
during last year, has not this year been called to mourn a single one of 
its ordinary regular members. But of its honorary members two have 
been taken away, Madame Somerville and Arnold Escher de la Linth. 

I have little to say of Madame Somerville, who has made for herself 
a brilliant reputation, during the last fifty years, by her mathematical 
works, and especially by her translation into English of the Mecanique 
celeste of Laplace. She was in full sympathy with the different branches 
of science, and well informed as to their i)rogress. She had for several 
years resided in Florence, where she died at an advanced age. 

Arnold Escher de la Linth was a sou of the celebrated Conrad Escher, 
surnamed de la Linth on account of the great service he rendered to 
the valley of that name, by directing the river Linth into Lake Wallen- 
stadt, in order to protect the valley from inundations ; an admirable 
work, managed with great talent and perseverance. 

Arnold Escher acquired at au early age, under his father's tuition, a 
love for the natural sciences. Conrad Esclier was in fact one of the 
most eminent naturalists of his time ; his observations in regard to the 
dispersion of erratic bowlders, and their distribution over the Swiss 
plains, are especially remarkable. 

The son, during the frequent excursions made with his father into the 
mountains of Claris, formed the conception of a geological map of Switz- 
erland, which he afterward executed and published, in concert with M. 
Studer, the eminent geologist of Berne, after twenty years of labor and 
innumerable journeys. He examined the Alps in every detail, and the 
precision and justice of his judgment, the accuracy of his observations, 
and the quickness of his comprehension j)ermitted him to accumulate 
more abundant material for study than unfortunately he could make 
use c£. 

The desirable qualities we have mentioned inspired confidence, and 
he was frequently consulted ; his answers were always characterized by 



2G2 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

a straightforward integrity, and a scientific accuracy quite exceptional, 
as well as a liberality rarely met with, which rendered him indifferent 
as to whether or not his ideas were appropriated by others. The perfect 
honesty and great conscientiousness with which he pursued his researches 
often prevented him from publishing them. He was always afraid of 
not having sufficiently investigated the ground gone over, and would 
go again to places he perhaps had previously visited many times. 

He belonged to the geological commission of Switzerland, and was one 
of its most influential members. This commission assigned to him the 
preparation of the part of the Federal Atlas which contained the Sentis. 
He had devoted more than twenty years to the study of this mountain, 
and as early as in 1848 the cuts furnished to Murchison, which were pub- 
lished in the memoir of the English savan, prove that he was master of 
the subject. When death prevented Escher from making the publication 
which had been intrusted to him by the commission, the latter found 
among his papers, with many inestimable scientific treasures, enough 
documents to prepare a large special map of Sentis, on a scale of fifty 
thousands, (the ordinary maps of the commission Avere of one hundred 
thousands,) with text, both almost entirely from the hand of Escher, 
a work which reflects much honor on his memory. 

I should also add that Escher joined MM. Martins and Desor in an 
expedition to the desert of Sahara, the results of which, especially those 
which relate to the meteorological influence of the simoon, or wind of 
the desert, upon the meteorological condition of the Alpine regions, were 
given in the account of the expedition published by M. Desor, under the 
form of letters addressed to M. Liebig and M. Ch. Vogt. 

A description of Arnold Escher would be very incomplete were it con- 
fined to an account of his scientific life. The integrity and love of truth 
which distinguished him in his researches, he carried into his private re- 
lations, where they were associated with great simplicity of manner, and, 
we may say, jierfect amiability, accompanied by a slight dififldence, which 
only rendered him the more attractive. It was a real i^leasure to see 
him enter our reunions of the Helvetic Society of Natural History, into 
which he brought a warm and cheerful kindliness it is impossible to 
forget. The void made by his death has been deeply' felt, and in the 
month of August last, at the Fribourg meeting, every one deplored his 
absence, with that of our excellent colleague Pictet de la Rive. It was 
a great sorrow not to meet again the two friends, lately so full of life, 
and with nothing about them to indicate premature death. 

If the society lost none of its ordinary members during the year that 
is passed, it added several to its number. MM. Emile Ador, Edmond 
Sarasin, and William Barbey were elected as ordinary members, on ac- 
count of interesting communications made by these young savcois in 
regard to organic chemistry, geology, and botany. M. Casin, professor 
of the lyceura of Charlemagne, well known for important researches 
in physics, of which he in person made an exposition, in part, at 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 263 

a session of the society, was elected an honorary member. The society 
has chosen as president, for the year commencing to-day, Professor de 
Caudolle, and has re-elected as treasurer, for three years dating from the 
month of January, M. Philippe Plantamour. Finally, it has acquired 
two new free associate members, MM. Edouard Des Gouttes and Henri 
Hentsch. 

Tlie second part of volume xxi of our memoirs appeared at the end 
of 1871}; it contained, besides the report of the president, an article 
upon the Lepidoptera of the Museum of Geneva, by M. Guenee, whom 
the society elected last year as honorary member ; the fourth series of 
a work by M. Duby on new, or not well known, cryptogams; some 
observations upon a primordial group of plants {appendiciilaires) of the 
Strait of Messina, by M. Hermann Fol ; and, lastly, an important me- 
moir upon the effects of lightning upon trees and ligneous plants, and 
the employment of them as conductors or lightning-rods, by M. Daniel 
Colladon. 

Independently of the first part of volume xxiii, which will appear 
in the course of the year, the society, thanks to the generosity of M. 
Claparede, sen., and of his daughter, Madame Flournois, has added to 
its memoirs, as volume xxii, the last work of M. Edouard Claparede, 
prefaced by a biographical notice of our lamented colleague, by M. 
Henri de Saussure. This volume, which is already printed, will soon be 
given to the i)ublic. 

The society is still occupied with investigations in regard to the lake 
of Geneva, and has received several reports of the commission from 
M. Alphonse Favre. After allotting a sum of 500 francs from its funds 
to commence this work, in order to defray the subsequent expense 
the society has opened a special subscription, which has brought in 
1,800 francs net. The first soundings undertaken by M. Favre, assisted 
by M. Henri Hentsch, cost 330 francs 75 centimes, which sum was taken 
from a donation to the commission of 700 francs — 400 from the Geneva 
society and 300 from the Vaudois society. In the following account of 
the labors of the society will be found some of the scientific results 
obtained. 

I mention, merely to recall the fact, the examination made by the society 
of the changes proposed by the central committee of the Helvetic Society 
of NaVaral Science in the existing constitution and title of the society. 
It has given an opinion unfavorable to their adoption, especially that 
which relates to a diminution in the number of days of a session, which 
the committee proposed to reduce to two. The society has always ad- 
mitted that the local committee could, when desirable, make this reduc- 
tion. 

SUMMAS.Y OF SCIENTIFIC LABORS. 

1. Physical science. — The mathematical sciences which, without a strict 
regard to the laws of classification, I enter under the head of physical 
science, have been well represented in our sessions. 



264 TKANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

M. Galopin has given us a metliod of determining the maxima and 
the minima of a function. It consists in reducing to the derivative of 
the function, and then arranging the roots in the order of their powers. 
In tliis order they correspond alternately to a maximum and a mini- 
mum, so that it is only necessary to determine the derivative of one of 
them. 

M. de la Harpe has exhibited a property of numbers by which it results 
that the cube of one number is always equal to the difference of the 
squares of two other numbers. 

We commence the enumeration of the works of the society in physical 
science proper, with meteorology. 

M. Plantamour has given a summary of the udometric observations 
for the meteorological year 1872. From the commencement of our 
regular observations, that is to say, from the year 1826, there has never 
been as much rain in one year as in that of 1872. The aun ual mean at 
Geneva is 824'^™. In 1872 there fell 1,080™™ ; that is to say, over a third 
more than the mean. 

M. Plantamour has kept the society informed in regard to the geodetic 
operations carried on in Switzerland. The purpose of the geodetic cam- 
paign of 1872 has been to determine the co-ordinates of the Gebris, 
in the canton of Appenzell, the Gebris being one of the points of the 
new international triangulatiou, intended to connect this mountain with 
the Austrian triangulatiou. An error in the closing of a large polygon 
l^assing through the Simi)lon and the Gothard necessitated a new set of 
operations, for there was an error in taking the level of about 1™, which 
was inadmissible. The cause of this error has not yet been discovered. 
The errors which are found out by the closing of a polygon have also 
been the subject of a communication from General Dufour, who has 
mentioned the deviation of the plumb-line, on account of the neigh- 
borhood of the mountains, as a possible cause of the want of accord- 
ance between the two levelings. 

Our society, in concert with the Vaudois Society of Natural Sciences, 
has decided, as you know, to undertake an examination of the bottom 
of the lake. In view of this work, MM. A. Favre and 11. Hentsch have 
made some preparatory soundings, which have been the subject of a 
communication to the society. The process of determining a profile by 
soundings, which consists in causing an experienced rower to give the 
same number of strokes of the oar between two consecutive soundings, 
is not sufficiently precise ; at least it did not prove to be so under the 
conditions in which the observations were made. Under other circum- 
stances it might be useful. If, on the contrary, the profile is obtained by 
means of a rope supported by corks, results may be corrected by a 
second operation. The depth of the little lake is in some parts much 
greater than is indicated in the map of the canton. 

I am constrained to mention in this connection the communication by 
M. Chaix of a hydrographic map, published by the federal bureau, to 



I 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 265 

which M. Chaix has added his experiraeuts upon the proportion of solid, 
matter contained in the water of the Arve. 

On the 27th of jSIovember of last year occurred that remarkable rain 
of meteors, which seemed to confirm the hypothesis that shooting stars 
are produced by the disintegration of comets. M. Plantamour gave to 
the society the data for the solution of 1 he question, to which the attention 
of the society w<is again directed by M. E. Gantier, in the coarse of a 
notice of the presumed discovery of the comet of Biela by an astronomer 
of Madras. 

I complete the notice of astronomical researches by mentioning the 
remarkable instance communicated by M. Thury of astronomical visibility. 
He observed, by means of his small refractor, with great clearness, on 
the night of the loth to IGtli of June, the star Antares and the small 
blue star near it. 

Want of space permits me merely to recall to your memory, without 
analyzing it, the communication of M. Soret in regard to his compara- 
tive researches between thermal solar radiation and that of a body 
heated in the oxyhydric flame. These researches, which modify the 
assertions of P. Secchi in regard to the temperature of the sun, have 
been published. I would say here, that it is our custom, in our annual 
account of the proceedings of the society, to confine ourselves almost 
exclusively to communications which have not been laid before the 
public. I give, once for all, this explanation, to account for the more or 
less brief notice of some of the subjects which have been discussed at 
our sessions. 

M. Wartmann discussed the theory of the perception of color, which 
admits three systems of nerves, corresponding to the three fundamental 
colors, and opposed to this theory certain observed facts; in particular, 
the fact that certain Daltonians do not perceive color, but only a con- 
trast of light and shade of different intensities. 

Information in regard to the aurora borealis has, from time to time, 
been sent to me by observers of this phenomenon and by savaus 
interested in the subject. I have communicated to the society the 
principal inferences drawn from a work of M. Boue, upon the concord- 
ance of austral and boreal auroras which he sent me in a letter, and 
also those from the researches of M. Lovering, who has united in a 
catalogue more than 12,000 observations of auroras. 

M. Marignac has given us the result of his experiments upon the 
identity of the heat of fusion and the heat of solution. The tem- 
perature of solution of a body whose point of fusion is very low was 
observed during the cooling, and particularly as it passed the point of 
fusion. There was no sudden change, nothing anomalous, as it passed 
this point ; and M. Marignac therefore concluded that the heat of fusion 
is identical with that of solution. For this experiment a solution of 
spermaceti in alcohol was used; the point of fusion was at 48^ C. The 



26G TKANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

substances which meet the conditions required by these researches are 
few in number. 

M. E. Ador has presented to the society a summary of his researches 
in regard to the radical of phtalic acid. 

I close the account of our labors in physical science by mentioning 
the oral summary given by M. Casin of some of his researches, already 
printed, which he has presented to the society. 

I also recall that Professor Gautier in numerous reports, several of 
which have been published in the archives, has informed us of various 
astronomical investigations, and in particular of those of M. Huggins 
of stellar spectra in regard to the direction of the movement of stars in 
relation to the earth. 

2. The natural sciences. — Geology and paleontology have so much in 
common, that it seems to me quite natural to mention in connection what 
relates to these two sciences. 

I would remind you that M. A. Favre presented an article upon phos. 
phates, and their beds, and that M. E. Favre made the society acquainted 
with the recent works upon the structure of ammonites. 

The boring of the Gothard cannot fail to interest geologists. Specimens 
of the different rocks encountered will be preserved in their order of 
succession. M. A. Favre, in making a communication to the society 
upon this subject, suggested the request for a set of these specimens for 
the Museum of Geneva. 

M. Ed. Sarasin presented an article, prepared with the assistance of 
M. Fuchs, upon the sources of the petroleum of Campina, in Wallachia. 
This article assigns to peti^oleum an eruptive origin, and assimilates it to 
the hydrocarbons disengaged during volcanic phenomena. This hy- 
pothesis led the authors to expect that they would find in beds of petro- 
leum a distribution analogous to that of metalliferous strata ; their 
anticipations were confirmed by the discovery of an orientation^ following 
two parallel lines, in the petroleum-emanations of the plateau of Cam- 
pina. 

M. de Saussure, on his return from a visit to Naples, gave us a descrip- 
tion of the crater of Vesuvius, then in eruption, (see the Journal of 
Geneva,) and also presented the society with several other communi- 
cations, upon various subjects, which have already been published. 

M. Dor exhibited to us three skulls of the lacustrian period, recently 
discovered. Two of these skulls belong to the stone age, and are there- 
fore very valuable, on account of the rarity of such specimens, a rarity 
probably due to the custom of burning bodies. They are skulls of the 
ancient Helvetians, a Celtic race. The large size of one of them shows 
that the stature of the man of the stone age was greater than has been 
supposed. The third is the skuli of a child of the bronze age. 

Under the head of " animal physiology " should be recorded the re- 
searches of M. Prevost upon the section of the cord of the tympanum. 
Contrary to the opinion first announced by M. Vulpian, and afterward 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 2G7 

modified by this scientist's own observations, M. Prevost fonnd tbat tbe 
cord of tbe tympanum is not entirely lost in tbe lower maxillary gland, 
bat sends tbreads to tbe tongue. Employing tbe Waller metbod, be 
divided tbe tympannm-cord of dogs, cats, &c., and a few days after 
found wasted nervous tubes in tbe terminal brancbes of tbe lingual. 

M. Prevost bas given ns tbe results of some experiments upon tbe 
nerves of taste. Tbese are opposed to tbe bypotbesis tbat tbe fibers, 
of tbe lingual nerve wbicb transmits tbe gustatory impressions, pass 
tbrougb tbe spbeno-palatine ganglion. In fact, tbe amputation of two 
spbeno-palatine ganglions, accompanied by tbe section of tbe two glosso- 
pbaryugeal nerves, does not alter tbe transmission of tbe gustatory sen- 
sations in the parts moved by the lingual nerve. 

Under tbe bead of physiology should also be mentioned a communi- 
cation concerning tbe investigations of tbe congress of medical men at 
Lyons, in regard to tbe supposed cause of tbe fevers which justly give 
to the climate of tbe Dombes a character for insalubrity. In this com- 
munication tbe intermittent fever of tbese regions is attributed to tbe 
spores of a conferva, very abundant in tbe marshes of that neighbor- 
hood, wbicb rise in tbe air, with tbe water evaporated. 

M. Lombard, in regard to a subject upon wbicb he bad before ad- 
dressed tbe society, presented the fact tbat pulmonary consumption or 
I)htbisis decreases with altitude, and mentioned Davos station, at an 
elevation of 1,55G meters, as having been found particularly favorable 
to persons affected with this disease. 

In natural history proper, M. V. Fatio has given an account of his 
researches in regard to tbe development of tbe black salamander, which 
differs greatly from that of the spotted variety. Tbe black salamander 
produces only two living progeny, although at the same time the ovary 
contains a large number of eggs. Four of tbese eggs are developed 
at tbe expense of the others, which are decomposed and serve tbem as 
nourishment; after a time tbe development of two of tbe four embryos 
is arrested, and they in turn serve as nutrition for tbe last two, which 
alone survive, and are born after undergoing various m.etaraorphoses. 

M. Lombard exhibited to the society a blind fish from the Mammoth 
Cave of Kentucky, sent to tbe Museum of Geneva by M. V. Lombard. 

Vegetable pbysiology bas been represented, first, by a communication 
from M. Eissler, upon the nutrition of plants. M. Rissler reminded the 
society that he had before presented some researcbes upon the double 
l^art played by tbe humus, which assists the dissolution of tbe mineral 
substances useful to the plant, and also furnishes a portion of the car- 
bon it contains. His views were opposed to a subsequent memoir upon 
the same subject, to wbicb he drew attention, by M. Grandeau, in which 
M. Rissler's researcbes are not mentioned, and according to which the 
part played by the humus consists only in dissolving the nutritive sub- 
stances. 

M. de Caudolle, in noticing tbe appearance, recently observed, of Al- 



268 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

gerine plants iu France, expressed his doubts as to their definite estab- 
lishment, and gave some examples of exceptional and temporary devel- 
opment of plants. 

While exhibiting to the society a flower of the orchid order, the An- 
grwcum sesqidpedaley a plant which is a native of Madagascar and only 
very recently introduced into Europe, M. E. Boissier gave us the views 
of Darwin in regard to the mode of fecundation of this flower. It is re- 
markable for a spur of extraordinary length, the elongation of which 
Darwin considers must be the consequence of the length of the proboscis 
of a certain butterfly which is still unknown, and which would be the 
only insect which could determine the fecundation of this orchid. In 
fact, iu all the flowers provided with short spurs, as this butterfly touches 
the nectar with the end of its proboscis, and does not introduce the lat- 
ter entirely, it does not carry off pollen with its head. Such flowers, in 
consequence, do not participate in the fecundation of the others, and 
tend to disappear. M. Boissier made some objections to this theory, 
which he considers insufficiently founded upon observation and even 
logical deduction. 

M. Miiller claimed to have proved in a striking manner the intimate 
mingling of the two distinct forms of the ordinary cowslip or primrose, 
and gave this fact as a remarkable example of dimorphism. He recalled 
to mind that if fecundation takes place under the most favorable condi- 
tions, it must be between flowers of opposite form. 

A communication was made to us by M. Lichtenstein, of Montpellier, 
upon the ravages caused in vineyards by the Phylloxera vastatrix. In 
the same family of plants certain species seem to be spared by this dis- 
ease. Thus, although the European vine transported to America may 
bo affected by it, it does not attack the vine indigenous to America. 
M, Lichtenstein has not observed in Switzerland the injurious species of 
Fhijlloxera. 

Lichens, and the theory of M. Schwandener, according to which they 
have been assimilated to a combination of mushrooms and sea-weeds, 
have been the subject of a communication from M. Miiller. It is true 
that the anatomic structure of lichens exhibits the superposition of 
green cells called gonides, and this is analogous to that of sea-weeds, 
also a felty tissue containing no chlorophyl, iu which it resembles the or- 
ganization of mushrooms ; but still we never find among the lichens the 
effects produced by the parasitism of the mushrooms, and there exist 
among them forms of fruit and spores never found among the mushrooms. 
M. Miiller does not accept this theory, and sees in lichens a dimorphism 
of which the two terms are : 1. A complete state, known under the name 
lichen. 2. An incomplete state, never producing fruit, and which cor- 
responds to the lichen which grows in an isolated condition. 

M. Duby informed the society that an anomalous moss had been sent 
to him from New Caledonia. He described two characteristics found iu 
no other known moss, which establishes a new genus. The name Mr. 



I 



I 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 269 

Duby has given to this genus is Snnodontea, and the species has been 
called Spathoiclea. 

M. de Caudolle has stated to the society that a plant, the Linnea 
horealis, whose existence in our vicinity has been unknown since De 
Saussnre found it growing upon the Yoirons, had been discovered b\' 
M. P. Privat, upon the pass of Oche. 

M. W. Barbey presented to the society an article upon plants of the 
genus Einlohium. In this genus there are some especial difficulties in 
the determination of species, concerning which there is great uncer- 
tainty, notwithstanding numerous investigations. The seed ought to 
furnish the best characteristics for determination, but the Upilobla mul- 
tiply readily by suckers, which favors the permanence of the hybrid 
specimens which abound in this genus. These plants are found in 
great abundance in New Zealand. 

M. Humbert has presented several very interesting communications 
upon some publications relative to natural history, particularly upon 
the work of Hceckel on calcareous sponges. 

I ought also to mention several reviews, presented by different mem- 
bers, of published works; among others, that of M. Ernest Favre, of 
the work of M. Barrande upon the Silurian formation of Bohemia, and 
those of M. Micheli, of the new edition of the treatise on botany of M. 
Sachs, and of a work of M. Krauss, professor of botany at Erlangen, 
upon the coloring matter of chlorophyl. 

If I do not dwell upon communications of this kind, it is because, in 
the reports of the president, as I have said before, it is customary to 
confine attention principally to original papers; but I cannot terminate 
this report without special notice of the communication, so fnll of in- 
terest, made by M. Alphonse de Candolle to the society, in its session of 
June, 1873, the last at which I had the honor to preside. In announc- 
ing the publication of the seventeenth and last volume of the Frodromus 
&ystematis naturaUs regrii vef/etahilis, he gave an historical summary ot 
this great and important work. I willingly extend this detailed account 
of what I consider one of the most glorious memorials of the science of 
Geneva. 

The idea of making a complete revision of the vegetable kingdom 
was conceived by Augustin Pyramus de Candolle, during the last years 
of his residence in Montpellier, about 1813 or 1814. 

The end he proposed to himself then, especially, was to improve and 
diffuse the knowledge of the natural system he was the first to make 
use of, in an important flora, (Flore fran9aise, 1805,) and the principles 
of which he unfolded in his elementary treatise, (1813.) He began 
with some monographs of families, very carefully elaborated, which he 
published in two volumes called Regni v eg etab His sy sterna naturalc, (1818 
and 1821.) He soon saw that to treat every family in this way would be 
beyond the powers of one man, and would require a great deal too much 
time, even supposing, as was then believed, that the number of species 



270 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

did not exceed 25,000 or 30,000. De Candolle modified bis plan, and 
took up the series of families under a very much abridged form in his 
work which he called the Prodromus. The title indicates that he at some 
future time hoped to take up again the iSystema, but the enormous in- 
crease in the number of species discovered, after the peace of 1815, soon 
convinced him that this was impossible, and as the articles in the Pro- 
tlromus were considered too brief, he lengthened the descriptions, after 
the third volume, and continued to do so until the middle of the seventh 
volume. There he came to the end of the great family of compound 
flowers, the elaboration of which was his last and greatest effort. 

He was attacked by a serious illness just as he attained his sixtieth 
year, and was obliged to accept of assistance in the work of continuing 
the Prodromus, which he had never before done, except with articles of 
very little consequence. jMM. Bentham, Dunal, Decaisne, Grisebach, 
Choisy, Duby, Boissier, Moquiu, Meissuer, and Alphonse de Candolle 
contributed their aid, and gradually furnished extended articles. De 
Candolle expired on the 0th of September, 1811, and his son continued 
to direct the Prodromus, preparing himself certain articles. With the 
aid of other assistants, at the end of thirty -two years he had added ten 
volumes to the seven that his father had published. The seventeenth 
volume completed the principal class of the vegetable kingdom, the 
Dicotyledons, with the exception of one family (Artocarpeis) which the 
author could not prepare in time, notwithstanding the delay accorded 
him. The whole forms a series of unparalleled monographs, including 
214 families, 5,131 genera, and 58,975 species. 

The Prodromus has been, we may say, the gi'eat authority of descriptive 
botany for half a century. Its order for families has generally been 
adopted, its form of compilation imitated, and what it proposes or sanc- 
tions admitted. It has been of great service in doing away with a num- 
ber of genera and species for which there was no foundation. As the 
work was published when most of the new plants were discovered, it con- 
tributed greatly to making them known. It includes 657 new genera 
and 11,790 new species ; that is to say, more than Linnaeus knew of for 
the whole vegetable kingdom. M. de Candolle shows, by comparing 
the volumes three by three from the commencement of the work, that 
the proportion of new genera in relation to the old constantly dimin? 
ishes, while the proportion of new species remains the same ; that is 
always about 25 per cent. We may, therefore, conclude that by the 
end of the present century we shall have discovered very nearly all the 
genera which exist, while with species this is still far from beiiig the 
case. 

One of the causes of the influence of the Prodromus has been its 
entire impartiality with respect to the botanists of all countries. The 
authors have been chosen without reference to nationality. They are 
thirty-three in number, including MM. Candolle, and of these thirty- 
three contributors twelve are Swiss, nine French, seven German, three 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 271 

English, one Italian, one Swedish, one from Holland, aud one a Bel- 
gian. 

Augustin Pyramns de Caudolle has written almost a third of the 
work, 4:,30o pages; Alph. de Caudolle, 1,387 pages ; J. Miiller, of Ar- 
govie, 1,144:; Beutham, 1,133 ; Meissuer, 835 ; Dunal, 732; the twenty- 
nine other assistants, articles less extended. De CandoUe, his sou, aud 
his grandson (Oasimir) have compiled 5,947 pages out of the whole 
13,194. The coutributors residing at Geneva have furnished sis-tenths. 

The mere correction of proof in such an especial worli has been a 
great labor for the two directors, who have done it all themselves. They 
have also greatly assisted their colaborers, by taking notes for sixty 
years, without interruption, of all new descriptions aud plates which 
have appeared in botanical books and journals. These notes, chissed 
by families, form the most complete repertory of descriptive botanical 
literature ever compiled. 

Several motives induced M. de Candolle not to extend the Prodro- 
mus beyond the Dicotyledons. The principal one was the great increase 
in the difficulty of the work, on account of the continually-increasing 
number of specimens to be examined and of species aud characteristics 
to be determined by the aid of the magnifying-glass. When A. P. de 
Candolle commenced, an active botanist could describe, according to 
the custom of the time, 1,500 or 1,800 species a year. Now, with the 
work prepared as in the last volumes of the Prodromus, aud in ac- 
cordance with the existing state of science, an industrious botanist could 
describe not more than 300 or 400 species a year. The difficulty of ob- 
taining the manuscripts at the time promised by the authors was 
another great obstacle. To this cause must be attributed the delay in 
the publication of the Prodromus, the volumes having appeared more 
and more slowly in proportion as the number of writers was increased. 

The execution of this magniticent work has required fifty years, 
indeed sixty, if we go back to its origin. It has employed three gen- 
erations of the same family, which is an unusual circumstance in the 
history of science, and will forever associate the name of Candolle with 
the most remarkable scientific achievements of Geneva. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



By Arthur Morin, 
Dh'ector of ilie Conservatory of Arts and Trad. 3, Paris. 



[Translated for the Smithsonian lustitution by Clarence B. Young.] 

[_ Continued from the Smithsonian Eeportfor 1873, jp. 318.] 

APPLICATIONS. 

55. Ventilating hy means of common fire-places. — Fire-places, though not 
ecouomical forms of heating-apparatus, produce a very pleasant temper- 
ature, and also serve as efficient means of changing the air of occupied 
apartments. 

Natural draught produced simply by the differencebetween the temper- 
ature of the air within the chimney and that without, in many cases, 
carries off as much as 14,000 cubic feet of air an hour, even when no 
fire is burning in the iire-place. 

With a coal or wood fire of moderate intensity, the amount of air carried 
off may be as much as 42,000 cubic feet an hour, or 2,200 cubic feet to 
each pound of wood burned, and 3,200 cubic feet to each pound of coal 
burned. 

But, with this advantage, common fire-places have the serious defect 
of drawing in, through the joints of doors and windows, currents of cold 
air, which run to the fire and chill the backs of those sitting there, au 
effect which is particularly unpleasant when the face is very much warmed 
by the fire. 

The various forms of apparatus in use, which are designed to warm 
the apartment, and, at the same time, draw in external air to increase 
the draft and promote combustion, usually have too small fines, and heat 
the air to 170°, 212°, or more, which, issuing horizontally at about the 
height of the occupants of the room, becomes at times unendurable. 
These forms of apparatus have besides the defect of obstructing tbe 
lower portion of the smoke-flue, and of reducing the volume of air ca.jried 
oft*. Fire-places made on Douglas Galton's system, with the dimensions 
given in § 13, do not have these objections, and are unexceptionable 
means of warming and ventilating during the winter. 

50. Use of chimneys for summer-ventilation hy means of gas-jets. — Chim- 
neys may easily be made to serve as ventilators during the summer, or 
on special occasions, by placing in them an iron or copper pipe furnished 
with several gas-burners. In the chimney of an ordinary apartment, 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



273 



haviug an eartlieu-ware flue 11 inches square and QQ feet higli, tbe amount 
of air drawn up the chimney to each foot of gas burned will be greater 
the less gas is burned and the less the temperature in the flue, following 
pretty nearly the following decreasing series : 





Amount cf air drawn up 


Amount of gas consumed 


the chinmey every 


au hour. 


hour to each cubic foot 




of gas burned. 


CuMc feet. 


CuMcfeet. 


7 


1,900 


14 


1,400 


28 


700 


35 


600 


42 


500 


49 


450 



These approximate figures may serve to determine the number of 3J 
feet burners that will be required to produce any desired rate of change of 
air in an apartment. 

When the chimney is much lower than that just mentioned, it will be 
necessary to correct the calculated volume of air in the proportion of 
the square roots of the heights of the flues. 

The pipe which conveys the gas to the flue may be easily taken away 
when not in use, and closed by a blind socket. 

This mode of ventilation may be employed to advantage in drawiug- 
rooms on reception -days, provided that registers be placed at conven- 
ient points for the introduction of moderately warm fresh air. 

During the summer, the system of ventilating by means of gas-jets 
will also allow the room to be maintained at a lower temperature than 
that of the external air, by drawing in the air from clean cellars to 
replace that carried off. 

Example. — The directors' room at the Conservatory of Arts and Trades 
is ventilated in this way during the summer ; and, although the air from 
the basement is admitted through but a single opening, entirely too small 
for the purpose, and the doors of the room are constantly being opened, 
yet the temperature is always 4° lower than the room of the subdirector, 
which has a precisely similar exposure, but is unventilated, and it is 7° 
lower than the temperature of the external air in the shade. 

57. Auxiliary ventilating-flucs. — For unusually large gatherings, in 
addition to the chimneys, additional flues may be cut in the thickness 
of the front or party walls, in which gas-jets may be used to i)roduce a 
strong draught. This method has been tried with success in a house in 
the Champs Elysees, Paris. 

INFANT- ASTLIBIS. 

58. In these charitable institutions, in addition to securing space and 
cleanliness, provision should also be made for obtaining an abundant 

18 s 



274 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



aud regular supply of fresh air, without depending upon the irregular 
opening of windows. 

In this respect, all establishments of this kind, even the model one at 
the International Exhibition, fall far short. They ..re warmed by cast- 
iron stoves, the imperfections of which were shown in §1G. 
As an example of what appears proper to be done in such cases, 
Eig.14 . 1 will describe the plan car- 

Y/mmwmff////Mmamm/mmm/^//mM///i0!k ried out in the new asylum 

in the parish of Saint Am- 
brose in Paris, the construc- 
tion of which was intrusted 
to M. Picq, the aichitect, 
(Fig. 14.) 

This asylum is intended to 
receive fifty babies. There 
will also often be twenty- 
five mothers there at a time, while the attendants and patronesses present 
will usually add ten persons more. 

With these data, the maximum volume of air to be carried off and 
replaced by fresh may reach the following figures, (§ 40 :) 

Cubic feet. 

For 50 babies, (530 cubic feet each per hour) 2G, 500 

25 visiting mothers, (1,000 cubic feet each per hour) 20, 500 

10 attendants, (1,000 cubic feet each per hour) 10, 000 




Total amount of air to be changed every hour 63, GOO 

or 18 cubic feet in a second. 

This amount greatly exceeds the actual requirement, because the regu- 
lations of the asylum forbid the presence of the mothers in the main 
hall. They are received and nurse their children in 3 special apartment. 

The main room is Gl feet long, 24 feet wide, and 15 feet high, 
having, therefore, a content of about 22,000 cubic feet. With the 
amount of air mentioned above, the complete change would take i)lace 

in ^_^. ■ =2.8 times an hour, which is quite sufficient to keep the room 

in a healthful condition. 

The room is warmed by a hot-air heater, with vertical cast-iron tubes, 
having altogether about one hundred square feet of heating-surface, 
communicating with a cold-air duct, which will be described hereafter. 

It was intended that this heater should have two chambers : the 
exterior one, for drying damp linen, carrying the vapor to the chimney; 
the interior one, opening into the room, for warming dry linen. On 
account of the expense, these chambers were not made. 

There might easily have been placed around the fire-chamber in this 
heater hot- water pipes connected with a receiver, in order to furnish a 
supply of water for domestic use. 

In summer, the receiver, which, indeed, might have been placed in 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 2iO 

the cbimney-flne, could have been heated by a special fire. This useful 
appendage was given up for the same reason as the other. 

The foal air is carried off through ten flues, a, a, a, (Fig. 14,) made in 
the thickness of the walls. The required velocity of the current beiug 
2.3 feet a second, (§ 50,) the clear sectional area of each flue has been 

fixed at — — T— - = .78 square feet. 
10 X 2.3 

The size of the openings might then be 1 foot by 9 inches ; but, their 
area being reduced by a register which cuts off about one-third, they 
have been made 1 foot square. 

These flues open into collecting-flues arranged under the floor on each 
long side of the building; each of these collectors being able to carry off 
at a maximum 9 cubic feet a second, with a mean velocity of 3 feet a 
second, (§ 50.) They have at their mouths a sectional area of 2.7 square 
feet, beiug about 19 inches square ; but, at the first part, up to where 
the third down-flue enters, their areas have been reduced each to l.G 
square feet, they being 1 foot by 20 inches. 

The transverse collectors, c, c, in which the air should have a velocity 
of 4 feet a second, (§ 50,) have each a sectional area of only 2 square 
feet in their transverse portion, being 1 foot four inches by 1 foot 
7 inches, and they are but 2 feet 7 inches by 1 foot 7 inches where 
thej' enter the chimney, while there they should carry off 18 cubic feet a 
second. 

The chimney, which should carry off 18 cubic feet a second at the 

18 
velocity of 7 feet a second, (§ 50,) should have the area f— -^'^^ square 

feet, or be 1 foot 7 inches by 1 foot 7 inches. It really has a sec- 
tional area of 5 square feet, which is larger than necessary. It contains 
the smoke-flue, and it has, near the bottom, a little grate 10 inches by 
10 inches, forming a heater, in which a little coal-fire may be made in 
mild weather in order to keep up the circulation of air. 

The introduction of fresh air is made in accordance with the rules 
given in §§ 51, 52. 

The fresh-air supply for the heater A is obtained by means of a pipe, 
B, carried from the garden and passing under the floor. At its outer 
end, this pipe is connected with a sort of chimney connected with a grat- 
ing to prevent the introduction of foreign bodies. 

The air to maintain the draught of the fire is taken from the little 
room C. 

The warm air supplied by the heater passes to the upper room by 
pipes, d d d, eee, placed under the floor of the attic-room in the line of the 
building. The construction of the roof did not permit of using only a 
single pipe, which would have been suflicient. The cold air to be mixed 
with the warm air is taken in the upper room, where it is deflected 
toward the pipes by means of slats, so as to be delivered above the warm- 
air pipe d d d. 



276 WARMING AND VENTILATION. * 

A shelf fastened to eacli side-wall at half the height of the longitud- 
inal pipe e ee secures the separate admission of hot air below and cold 
air above. It is sufficient that these shelves be 10 or 12 feet long, but 
they should be made of earthen ware, in order that they may not be too 
much heated by the action of the air from the heater, which might pre- 
vent the entrance of the cold air. 

The two pipes for warm and fresh air are 12 inches by 20 inches. 
Four openings, g,g,g,g, placed in the ceiling in the center line of the room, 
admit the mixture of warm and fresh air with a velocity of about 20 
inches a second, (§§ 51, 52,) and in order to allow for the obstruction of 
the grating they are made 28 inches by 35 inches. Eegisters are placed 
at the lower part of the chimney to regulate the amount carried off, and 
they are also placed in the warm-air and fresh-air pipes so as to obtain 
the proper mixture. 

Such are the simple and inexpensive arrangements which serve to 
maintain in this asylum a degree of healthfulness superior to that of 
other establishments of the kind. 

59. Results of ex])eriment. — The plan just described was carried out, 
with a few modifications in details rendered necessary by local condi- 
tions and by work i^reviously done. The asylum was opened January 
27, 1868, and experiments made there in the first part of February, 
which gave the following results : 

Results of experiments made in Saint Ambrose Infant-Asylum. — The 
inside work of this asylum was not finished till the latter part of Janu- 
ary, and the hall was opened on Monday the 27th to the first children 
that were presented. After three or four days of heating to bring the 
interior to the proper temperature, the experiments were begun on the 
31st January. 

In the first visit to the hall, it was noticed that the foul air was car- 
ried off very well by all the openings, although the velocity appeared 
considerably greater at those nearest the chimney, as is natural. It 
would be easy to render the amounts carried off through the openings 
more uniform, if deemed necessary, by placing a register at each opening 
and regulating it once for all. 

The admission of fresh air is provided for by means of openings in 
the ceiling, and its velocity does not exceed 18 or 20 inches a second. It 
can be rendered entirely uniform by partially closing the openings far- 
thest from the heater, but this is not necessary. 

The amount of air admitted into the heater to be warmed may vary 
greatly according to the intensity of the fire, but, with the very moder- 
ate consumption of 57 pounds a day, it was found to be, on the 6th of Feb- 
ruary, 62,000 cubic feet; and on the 7th of February, 59,000 cubic feet, 
raised from the external temperature 42°, the usual mean temperature 
of the winter, to 88°, at which it was admitted into the room. The 
heater, on account of the large dimensions of its chambers, was more 
than sufficient alone to supply the room in winter with fresh air heated 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 277 

to a comfortable tlegTee. The additional fresh-air ducts would thcu be 
ofton found unnecessary, and might be closed. 

The amount of air brought into the room through the openings in the 
ceiling was found the same day, February 7, to be equal to 60,000 cubic 
feet an hour, confirming the jjrevious opinion. 

The amount of foul air carried off by the ventilating-chimney was as 
much as 05,000 cubic feet the same day and under the same circum- 
stances. The mean temperature in the chimney was — 

February 6 84^ 

That of the external air being 41^ 

Difference 40^ 

Thus, with this meau winter-temperature, that of 01° was maintained 
in the room, and, with an excess of 40° in the chimney over that of the 
air, almost 03,000 cubic feet of foul air was carried off", as has been 
stated. 

The consumption of fuel an hour was — 

Pounds. 

For heating 7 

For the ventilating-chimney 3 

10 

The babies being left in the morning and taken away by their mothers 

in the evening, it will be sufficient, in ordinary weather, if the fires be 

kept up at most eiglit hours a day. The daily consumption will then be 

on a mean 10x8=80 pounds a day. 

The fuel used is composed of 75 per cent, of coke and 25 per cent, of 
coal, and it will be estimating it above its value to charge it at $10 a 
ton. The expense of fuel during the winter would then be at most 

,^. -—36 cents a day, or 836 for 100 days, to obtain a change of air at 

the rate of 63,000 cubic feet an hour. 

During the season when artificial heat is notrequired, the ventilating-fire 

alone should be used, and will usually burn not more than about SJpounds 

of coal an hour, or 27 lbs. a day, for the period when the opening of windows 

200x27x10 
will not be sufficient, or during 200 days, ^J^JIi] ^ = $24. The total 

annual expense would then be at most $00 for an asylum which, though 
intended for but 50 children, might easily receive 100 in the large well- 
ventilated apartment, which has a content of 23,000 cubic feet, giving, 
in that case, 230 cubic feet for each child ; while in the primary schools 
of Paris there is allowed, on an average, but about 155 cubic feet to each 
child of from to 12 years of age. 

Under these conditions, the ventilation of 63,000 cubic feet for 100 
beds, or 230 feet a bed, an hour would be almost double what is neces- 
sary, and could easily be reduced to 42,000 cubic feet an hour. But even 
supposing that it be kept as it is, the mean expense for each child would 
be at most 60 cents a year. 



278 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

It should be added that, without urging the ventilatiog-iire, it is easy, 
with the proportions adopted, to increase the amount of air removed to 
more than 88,000 cubic feet an hour. 

In conclusion, we see from these experiments that the dimensions 
adopted in this first application to infant-asylums are much larger than 
necessary, and that the results intended have been more than realized. 
It may then be considered certain that in making similar arrangements, 
even with smaller dimensions, all requirements for good and complete 
ventilation will be satisfied at an expense much less than that incurred 
in the asylum which the parish of Saint Ambrose owes to its venerable 
curate, M. Langenieux. 

GO. Proportions for an asylum of fifty cradles. — According to the 
results of the experiments which have just been mentioned, and the 
conditions of service imposed by the regulations, the arrangements 
adopted by the Saint Ambrose Asylum greatly exceeding the necessities 
of the case, the following data may be assumed for a similar asylum : 
Amount of air to be carried off and replaced for 50 

children, at 530 cubic feet each per hour 2G, 500 cubic feet. 

For attendants and visitors 8, 800 cubic feet. 

35, 300 cubic feet. 

Floor room, IQ^ feet to each cradle - 812 square feet. 

Interior height 13 feet. 

Total cubical contents 10, GOO cubic feet. 

Equivalent to 212 cubic feet to each cradle. 

The air of the room should be changed ' =3^^ times an hour. 

The volume of air to be carried off and replaced in a second would be 
35300^gg ^^^^.^ ^g^^_ 
3G00 

From these data, following the preceding rules in the calculation of 
the dimensions of openings and flues, all the expenses of founding and 
carrying on the establishment will be kept within narrower limits than 
those which have attended its first application. 

PRIMARY SCHOOLS. 

61. The plans adopted should be designed to carry off and replace a 
volume of 400 to 500 cubic feet an hour for each child. 

The ventilating-openings should be placed in or against the vertical 
walls of the two long sides of the room. It is only in case of great con- 
structive difficulties that they may be confined to a single side. There 
should be as many of them as possible, and they should have a clear 
cross-sectional area that will give to the air carried off a velocity of more 
than 28 inches a second. Tliey should connect with descending flues 
leading in the cellar or under the floor to a collecting-pipe, which, in 



WAEMING AND VENTILATION. 



279 



most cases, should be carried directly to the foot of the ventilatiug- 
shaft. 

The latter should be placed for its whole length beside the smoke-pipe 
of the heater, the heat from which will assist the draught. Bui tliis heat 
will not usually be suflicient to give proper activity to the draught eveu 
when the external temx>erature is very low, and it will be necessary to 
keep up a little coal-fire at the bottom of the ventilating-shaft in a. grate 
detached from the walls. 

If local arrangements prevent making the fire at the bottom, it may 
be made at the floor-level or at the top, keeping the ventilatiiig-opeu- 
ings, however, in the vertical walls and near the floor. 

The fresh air, warm or cold, should be admitted near the ceiling, and 
preferably parallel to its surface. In the season for fires, the air sup- 
lilied by the heater should be mixed with the external cold air. The 
jn'oportion of each may be regulated by means of registers easily con- 
trolled from the interior of the room, so that the mixture may have only 
the temperature of 85° to 95° at most. 

The fresh-air openings should be arranged, if possible, along the 
whole length of the room, or at least be very numerous, and their sec- 
tion calculated so that the entering air should have a velocity of 40 
inches a second, if it is directed horizontally parallel to the ceiling, or 
20 inches, if it has a vertical direction. 

G2. Example. ScJiool in the Rue des 
Fctits-HoteJs, Paris, (Fig. 15.)— This 
school-building is intended for two 
perfectly distinct uses. The ground 
floor is used for the children's play- 
room. It is unnecessary to ventilate 
it, and a single stove is sufhcient to 
warm it. 

The second floor is occupied by the 
primary school kept by the Christian 
Brothers, and is divided into four 
rooms, intended for 400 children. 
The capacity of these rooms corre- 
sponds to a mean of 155 cubic feet for 
each child, which is about the pro- 
portion adopted by the city govern- 
ment, and seems to us totally insuffi- 
cient; 250 to 280 cubic feet for eacli 
child appears the proper amount, es- 
pecially as many schools for children 
are used in the evening as schools for 
adults. 

The third floor is devoted to a drawing-school under the charge of a 
private professor, and contains 270 desks, of which 200 are in the main 




280 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



room, which, in the evening, is lighted by 90 gas-burners. The capac- 
ity of this room corresponds to 200 cubic feet to each person. 

Ventilation in the two rooois during the day is limited to 350 cubic 
feet to each person, which necessitates the renewal of 140,000 cubic feet 
an hoar in the second story and 70,000 cubic feet an hour in the third 
story. 

The rooms are warmed by two heaters found by direct experiment to 
have a heating-capacity equal to 81 per cent, of the heat generated by 
the fuel,* and having proportions corresponding to 4^ square feet of 
heating-surface for every 1,000 cubic feet of room-area, supposed to be 
ventilated by a complete change of air twice an hour. 

The warm air is carried to each floor by three vertical flues leading 
into a large and long j)ipe extending throughout the whole length of 
the rooms, which receives fresh air from without in order to regulate the 
temperature of the air admitted into the room. This air enters hori- 
zontally near the ceiling. 

The volume of warm air, at a temperature of from 140° to 150° ascend- 
ing in the flues before being mixed with cold air, was found to be, in 
the second story, 106,000 cubic feet an hour; in the third story, 73,000 
cubic feet an hour ; and this has been found sufficient to maintain in 
the rooms a temperature of from 00° to 70°, when that of the exterior 
air was 35° or 40°. 

According to the instructions given to the builder, the foul air should 
have been carried away from the second story by thirteen flues, the pro- 
portions of which had been determined by applying the rule adopted 
in § 51, which fixes 28 inches a second as the velocity which the foul air 
should have in the first series of ventilating-flues, as indicated in the 
following table : 

SCHOOL-KOOMS, (SECOIirD FLOOE,) 



s 

o 

£ 

o 


O 

= 2 

© :^ 

s 

IB 


Volumes of air to be carried off.— 


Total sectional area 
corresponiling to a 
velocity of 28 inches 
a second. 


Number of fluea and prescribed dimen- 
sions. 


IE O 
as 

0.2 




In an bour. 


In a second. 


1 

2 
3 
4 


90 

60 
110 
1-10 


32,000 cubic feet. 

21,000 cubic feet 
39,000 cubic feet. 
49,000 cubic feet. 


9 cubic feet 

G cubic feet 
11 cubic feet 
14 cubic feet. 

40 cubic feet- 


4 square ft 

3 square ft. 

5 siiuare ft 

6 square ft 

18 square ft 


C 1 of 1 foot 7 inches x 1 foot=2.6 sq. ft. \ 
) 1 of 1 foot 1 inch x ] foot=l.l aq. ft. i 

3 of 1 foot 1 inch x 1 foot— 1.1 sq. ft. . . 

4 of 1 foot 1 inch x 1 footri^l.l sq. ft.. . 
4 of 1 loot 5 inches x 1 foot=1.5 sq. ft.. . 


3.7 

3.3 
4.4 
G 




400 


141,000 cubic feet. 


17.4 



ART-SCHOOL, (THIKD PLOOK.) 



71,000 cubic feet. 



20 cubic feet 9 square ft. 



■ 4 of 1 foot 5 inches x 1 foot=1.5 sq. ft . . 
3 of 1 foot 1 inch x 1 foot=l.l sq. ft . . 



C 
3.3 



Anuales du Conservatoire des arts et metiers, 6^ vol., p. 325. 



WAKMING AND VENTILATION. 281 

Note. — The builder actually gave smaller sectional areas to the flues ; 
still the intended results have been secured. 

In the first series of collecting-flues iu each story, where the velocity 
is to be 39 inches a second, the sectional area should be — 

Square feet. 
For the second story, amount to be renewed in 1 second 

= 39 cubic feet, sectional area 12 

For the third story, amount to be renewed in 1 second 

= 20 cubic feet, sectional area 6 

In the two collecting-flues terminating at the bottom of the general 
veutilating-chimney, the required velocity being 4 feet a second, their 
total sectional area was fixed at — 

Square feet. 

For the second story 10 

For the third story 5 



15 

The latter flues carry the foul air to the bottom of the chimney, which 
is 56 feet high, and has a sectional area of 11 square feet. The two 
smoke pipes being each 8 inches in diameter, or 2 feet in circumference, 
and having consequently 50x2=112 square feet of surface exposed to 
cooling, were not able, even in ordinary weather, to sustain the draught 
of the chimney, and a small auxiliary fire was deemed necessary. To this 
was given a surface of about 100 square inches, which, when burning 3.J 
pounds of coal an hour, carried oft", on an average, 140,000 cubic feet of 
air an hour in the second story, and 70,000 in the third story. If the 
dimensions of the ventilating-flues given to the builder had been followed 
instead of being reduced to 16 square feet in the second story and 8 in 
the third, it is evident that the amount of air carried off would greatly 
exceed the prescribed amount, which shows that the rules which have 
been given allow for even serious defects in construction. 

The observations made in this building in regard to the results of 
warming and ventilation lead to this important conclusion, that with, 
well-made heaters and a i^roperly- arranged system of ventilatiou, school- 
rooms with 350 cubic feet of air to each pupil may be comfortably 
warmed and ventilated by the use of no more fuel than is required for 
the injurious heat obtained from the cast-iron stoves used in most schools. 

ADULT-SCnOOLS. 

G3. Similar plans should be adopted for adult-schools ; the only change 
to be made consists in increasing to 500 or 700 cubic feet the amount of 
air to be carried off every hour for each person 5 or, in other words, to 
increase the size of the foul and fresh air flues. 

NIGHT-SCHOOLS OF DESIGN. 

04. These present a peculiar difficulty in changing the air and mod- 
erating the temperature, in consequence of the large number of lights 



282 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

or gas-burners which they contain, which often produce a degree of 
heat in excess of that necessary to warm the room. 

The general rule, which requires that the foul air should be drawn off 
near the floor, cannot be exclusively followed without causing currents 
of air heated from 85° to 95° to fall upon the students. It is, then, 
necessary to carry away the hot gases, the products of combustion, 
through the ceiliug. But at the same time it is necessary to admit the 
fresh air, which in that case must be cool, at a certain height as far as 
possible from the floor. 

But if the same room should also be occupied during the day as a 
study or drawing-room, and if it were then ventilated according to the 
usual rule hy drawing the foul air off near the floor, it would be well at 
night to maintain that ventilation in order to assist the circulation and 
the descent toward the floor of a part of the fresh air brought in, of 
which to make up for the heating-effect of the lights, there should be 
a much greater amount than during the day. 

Observations made in a school of design in Paris attended every 
evening by 200 to 240 scholars, and lighted by 90 gas-jets, consuming 
together 320 to 350 cubic feet of gas an hour, led for this special case to 
the following rules : 

1. During the day, regulate the amount of foul air drawn off at the 
floor-level to about 530 cubic feet for each adult scholar and admit the 
fresh air near the ceiling. 

2. For night-sessions, make escape-openings in the ceiling, the clear 
area of which should be calculated at about 88 square inches for every 
1,000 cubic feet capacity of the room. 

If there is no loft above the room in which the ventihiting-pipes can 
be carried, special pipes may be placed at convenient points, removed 
as far as possible from those at which the fresh air is introduced. These 
pipes should be supplied with convenient valves, in order that they 
may be closed during the day, and the amount of the hot gases removed 
at night regulated. 

3. Place in the two opposite walls of the room, or at least in one of 
them, at the height of 10, 13 feet, or higher, if possible, as many fresh- 
air openings as convenient, each supplied with a regulator to direct the 
air horizontally near the ceiling, the dimensions of these openings 
being calculated so that the volume of air admitted may be increased 
to six or eight times the total cubical capacity of the room, with an en- 
tering velocity of but 2 or 3 feet a second. 

By means of these arrangements, drawing-schools may be made com- 
fortable at night, which at present are almost like furnaces, and in 
which it becomes necessary to open some of the windows even in winter, 
notwithstanding the discomfort which may be experienced in conse- 
quence by the scholars nearest to them. 

In the drawing-school just mentioned, the total amount of air carried 
off every hour was : 



I 



WAEMING AND VENTILATION. 283 

Cubic feet. 

April 4, 1866 367, 600 

April 0, 1866 430,000 

Mean 398, 800 

wbich corresponds to a total renewal almost eight times an hour. 

By means of this active ventilation, the temperature in the room has 
been maintained till 10 o'clock at night at 67° to 70° at 5 feet above the 
floor, and at 75° on an average at the ceiliug, while, before the introduc- 
tion of the meaus of ventilation mentioned above, it was, respectively, 
at the same heights, 80° and 90°. 

Q5. Flans to he adopted in schools already huilt. — It too often happens 
that no plan has been provided in schools, and especially in night-schools, 
to produce even a partial change of air or to regulate the temperature, 
so that a stay in them is as unhealthful as it is unpleasant. There is, 
then, as we have said, no resource but to open the windows, and this is 
both uncomfortable and injurious to the scholars seated near them. 
These defects may, however, be removed, at least in part, in most cases 
by adopting the arrangements described in §64 in the case of a drawing- 
school. 

In order to carry off the hot gases arising from the lights, and pre- 
vent them from affecting the scholars, ventilating-openiugs shonld be 
placed near the ceiling. A number of ventilatiug-flues should be cut, 
the size of which may be calculated by the preceding rules; if possi- 
ble, making them so large that the air may be renewed four or five 
times an hour. If, however, it is only i^ossible to make one flue, it 
should be connected by means of a horizontal pipe, with a series of ori- 
fices in oue of the long sides of the room. At the bottom of tliis flue 
should be placed either a little grate or three or four gas-burners, each 
consuming about four cubic feet an hour, in order to keep up the draught 
when the external temperature is too high for natural ventilation to be 
effective. The use of gas is in most cases of this kind more convenient 
than a coal-flre. 

On the side opposite to that by wliich the foul air is carried off, a num- 
ber of ventilators should be put in place of the upper panes of the win- 
dows, and arranged so as to be opened more or less as needed, in order 
to admit the fresh air as near as possible to the ceiling. By increasing 
and suitably arranging these openings, the injurious effects from the 
entrance of cold air will be avoided. 

Arrangements of this kind have been recently adopted in the school 
at Saint Martin's Market, kept by the Christian Brothers, where there 
are about 100 scholars in the drawing-room every evening, light being 
furnished by a great many gas-burners. Simple wooden pipes carried 
up to the roof, and the employment of a few gas-burners, prove suffi- 
cient to carry off' the foul air and gas, and indirectly to draw in fresh air 



284 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



through the ventilators placed on the opposite side to that by which the 
foul air is removed. 

These means are far from being perfect, but their employment in 
school-buildings already built is almost always easy and inexpensive. 

LYCEUMS AND COLLEGES. 

66. In these institutions, where it is of the greatest importance to 
secure the change and purity of the air so as to promote the physical 
development of the youth, it is well to provide for this renewal at the 
rate of 500 cubic feet of air an hour for every child under 12 or 14 years, 
and 900 cubic feet for every person 15 years old or older. 

The class and study rooms having to be warmed and ventilated con- 
stantly during the day, and the sleeping-rooms during the night, it is 
best to make use of such forms of heating and ventilating apparatus as 
include all the rooms of the same building. Those employing hot water 
should always be preferred, notwithstanding their greater first cost, be- 
cause that is largely compensated for by their regularity of operation, 
and also by their economy of fuel. 

Cast-iron stoves, too often used in these establishments, are extremely 
injurious, not only because they heat too irregularly, and often to ex- 
cess, but also because the iron, a porous metal, produces a noticeable and 
dangerous alteration of the air. 

67. Application made at the Toulon Lyceum. — M. Laval, one of the 
most skillful of French architects, and one who has for several years 
past been specially occupied with questions relating to the healthfulness 
of habitations, has made a very happy application of the principles just 
mentioned in the new lyceum at Toulon, which he designed. Some de- 
tails in regard to it will prove of interest, since they will serve both as 
an exemplification of the rules and as a model to be followed in similar 
circumstances. 

In this establishment, there is a main court-yard, giving access to 
all the rooms, (Fig. 16.) This com- 
municates right and left, by means 
of passages, with the halls, studies, 
and class-rooms of the first and 
second divisions. At the rear, in 
a separate building, are placed 
the natural-history collections and 
the i)liysical apparatus. Behind 
this building is the hospital-court, 



1 M 1 Li- 



I I 



an 



km. 



|-nr1T 



1 



-JM 



-U- 



3 



around which are, on the ground-floor, the dining-rooms and the kitchen, 
and, on the second floor, the infirmary with its bed-rooms. 

The lyceum will accommodate 300 boarding-scholars, occupying during 
the day six study-rooms and at night ten bed-rooms. There are also 
twenty-two class-rooms, each intended for forty scholars on an average, 
which should be ventilated at the same time as the study-rooms. All 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



285 



tbe classrooms and studies ou one side of the staircase have together 
a content of 42,000 cubic feet, which is to be ventilated by one 
apparatus; and the two sleeping-apartments j)laced above these 
rooms have each a capacity of 37,000 cubic feet, or together 74,000 cubic 
feet. The chimney and the ventilating-apparatus, which will be de- 
scribed hereafter, then serve duriug the day to ventilate the recitation- 
rooms, containing 42,000 cubic feet of air, and during the night the bed- 
rooms, containing 74,000 cubic feet. 

The class-rooms and study-rooms in each division are placed on the 
ground-floor of large buildings, of which the second floor contains the 
corresponding bed-chambers. A fine staircase, placed near the middle 
of each w^ing, gives access to the rooms. Fig. 17 shows the general 




I 



arrangement of the ground-floor of one of the four similar buildings. 

The climate of Toulon is so mild that no arrangements for heating 
had to be provided, but ventilation appeared still more necessary under 
the southern sun than almost anywhere else. 

M. Laval took as a basis for the calculations and the dimensions he 
adopted the renewal of a volume of air of 900 cubic feet an hour to 
each person, which seems amj^ly'sufiicient. 

The ventilating-flues w^ere made in the thickness of the walls of the 
rooms on the ground-floor and the sleeping-rooms; their number as 
well as their areas were calculated bj' allowing a velocity of about 28 
inches a second to the air passing into them, (Fig. 18.) 




The general system adopted is that of a descending draught, and the 
ventilation is confined during the day to the lower rooms and at night 
to the sleeping-rooms. 

The descending pipes, which receive the foul air at each side of the 
front rooms, unite under the floor in two central collecting-pipes, placed 
right and left of the staircase, each terminating in aventilating-chimney, 
of which there is one ou each side of the staircase. 



286 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 




Each story has its ventihiting-pipes and its special collectiug-pipes, 

and the two collectors on one 

side are placed one over the 

other, as seen on the plan of the 

basement, (Fig. 19.) As the 

ventilation of the t\^o stories 

alternates day and night, a valve 

placed in the chimney at the 

mouth of the collectors allows 

that for the sleepiug-roonis to 

be closed during the day, and 

that for the class-rooms at night. 

A coke-stove, only filled every twelve hours, the draught of which can 

be regulated at will, is placed at the bottom of each chimney, to cou- 

rol the ventilating-curreut. 

Such are the simple and inexpensive arrangements adopted for the 
four buildings containing the study-rooms, class-rooms, and dormito- 
ries. 

The building containing the dining-rooms and the infirmary is venti- 
lated in a similar way; but for them M. Laval has skillfully made use oi 
the waste heat from the cooking-range, in which fire is kept most of the 
day. 

In the dining-rooms, the tables are arranged on the side opposite to 
an outer wall, pierced with many windows, which admit light and air 
from the infirmary-court. The ventilating-openings are arranged in the 
face of the opposite wall in the space between the tables. The vertical 
flues lead into collecting-pipes, which carry the foul air to the bottom of 
the kitchen-chimney," and this is always warm enough to produce a 
sufiBciently powerful draught. 

For the infirmary, situated on the second floor, the arrangements are 
similar; and as the dining-rooms only need to be ventilated at certain 
hours, the heat of the kitchen-range and that of the fires used in pre- 
paring decoctions and poultices, not only serve without expense to carry 
off' the foul air, but also to heat the baths required in the establishment. 
Introduction of fresh air. — The mildness of the climate of Toulon 
allowing, as has been said, artificial heat to be dispensed with, the in- 
troduction of fresh air does not present any difficulty, and no precaution 
is necessary, except to prevent the draught from becoming unpleasant. 
M. Laval has provided for that by placing ventilators in place of the 
upper panes in the window to throw the air toward the ceiling. A 
valve allows the amount of opening to be regulated when the force of 
the draught renders it necessary. 

In the sleeping-rooms, he has added convenient arrangements for the 
renewal of the air during the night; the opening of little doors placed 
under the window-ledge allowing the air to flow out at the floor-level 
and under the beds in order better to purify the room. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



287 



All these arrangements, carefully planned in advance by M. Laval, 
and carried out as the building progressed, have cost but $5,000 for the 
complete purification of all the occupied parts of a school of three hun- 
dred scholars, which, estimating the interest on the cost and the wear 
and tear at 10 per cent,, amounts to but $500 a year, or $1.67 a scholar. 

There can be no doubt that in such an establishment the health and 
the vigor of the youth, by reducing the number of sick days, would 
compensate largely, even in an economic consideration, for expendi- 
tures so well made. 

It is, however, proper to remark that in winter the temperature may 
fall unusually low at Toulon, and that ventilation without heating may 
prove unpleasant. It would be easy to comjilete the beginning thus 
made by adding a few heaters. 




WORKSHOPS. 

68. During the day, it is usually sufficient to change the air two or 
three times an hour, according to the general rules given in § 38 and 
following. 

If substances iiroducing disagreeable or nnhealthful odors are pre- 
pared or used, it will be advisable, if possible, to separate the sources 
of infection by partitioning off compartments almost as tight as drying- 
chambers, and carrying off the emanations by a strong local draught, 
carrying them under the floor and thence into a main ventilating-chim- 
uey, (Fig. 20.) 

The fresh air brought in near the ceiling, and which should be hot or 

cold, according to the season, de- 



scends in the rooms, and con- 
stantly renews that of the com- 
partment, which is drawn off 
without being able to spread 
into the room itself. 

If there are many places where 
the unhealthful materials are 
used, and they are scattered over 
almost the whole surface of the 
workshop, it would be advisable 
to place near each workman a ventilating-openiug, communicating with 
collecting-pipes terminating in a common ventilating-chimney. 

The amount of air carried oft" in this way should be greater the more 
dangerous the materials are to breathe. It is then necessary that the 
air of the shop be changed at least three or four times an hour, and in 
some cases, such as in match-factories and other unhealthful works, it 
should be done eight or ten times. 

[ In shops lighted by gas, and where every workman has a separate 
gas-burner, the products of combustion may often be readily removed 







M/' 




''W„/,&//M^!,%';W/^^/''''''^''^-'''/'^'^^" ' 



288 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

by i^lacing above each burner a little iron or copper pipe, f inch in 
diameter, leading to the outside of the building. 

This simple and cheap method would suffice to render healthful a 
large number of workshops where unfortunate tailors, seamstresses, and 
others now live in an infected and unhealthful atmosphere. 

Since the combustion of gas produces a great amount of vapor, the 
pipes which carry off the gaseous products should be short and direct to 
avoid condensation. 

In addition to the disagreeable alteration of the condition of the air, 
there is often an excessive elevation of temperature in shops placed 
directly under the roof. We will mention further on the means for 
remedying this by the inexpensive plan of sprinkling the roof. 

69. Glue and soa;pmanv factories. — In the preparation of these materials, 
and of many others of the same kind, there arise disagreeableodors during 
the boiling-operations. The most successful method adopted in England* 
appears to be to cover the vat and to make two openings in the cover, 
one of which admits the air, while the other, connected with the main 
ventilating-chimney, or with the grate of the vat itself, draws down 
the vapors and the air entering through the other hole, and carries 
them outside the building. 

When there are many vats near each other, their ventilating-pipes are 
usually connected with a single pipe leading to the chimney. 

If the odors to be carried off" are merely unpleasant and not danger- 
ous, and are not i)roduced in great quantity, it will be sufficient to 
make a sufficient number of openings in the ceiling, provided with short 
sheet-iron i)ipes to produce the draft, and to make suitable provision 
for the admission of fresh air. 

70. Manufactories of chloride of lime and similar substances giving off 
acid vapors. — The doors of the room into which the workmen have to 
enter are opened, and the rooms connected with a powerful ventilating- 
chimney. The workmen do not enter until all the vapors have been 
carried off by the fresh air introduced. 

71. Matcli factories. — The manufacture of matches, which produces 
the most distressing complaints, and to which boards of health do not 
j>ay sufficient attention, requires special details, into which it will be 
well to enter. 

For this purpose, I quote from a very valuable report, made by M. 
Freycinet, mining-engineer, the following description of the plans 
adopted with success in a large establishment lately erected at Hemix- 
eim near Antwerp, at which the builder, M. Genis, a talented Belgian 
officer, has made a remarkable application of ventilation by a downcast 
draught. 

Five separate buildings, used for storage of raw materials, for cover- 
ing with sulphur, for preparing the phosphorus-tips, for dipping, for 
drying and boxing, and for shipping constitute the manufactory proper. 
* Extract from the reiiort of M. Freyciuet Sur la mhibriU des fabriqiits. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



28y 



FIG. 21. 




These are all ventilated by means of a large central chimney, 7 feet 
in inside diameter and 118 feet high, vrhich receives the hot air from the 
fnrnoces of the steam-boilers, and, when needed, additional heat from 
a separate firo. ^long the outer face of the side-walls of each building 
extends a subterranean passage-way of masonry, (cc, Figs. 21, 22,) 2 

feet square, leading to the 
ft^^^ base of the chimney. Wher- 

ever the phosphorus is 
placed, an opening is made 
either in the walls or in the 
floor, communicating by a 
small pipe with the under- 
ground passage so as to 
carry off the injurious va- 
pors without allowing them 
to spread in the shop. 
Special arrangements differ according to the nature of the work. 
Thus, where the tips are prepared, a wide and shallow funnel is used, in 

which the draught is increased 
by the flames of the melting-fire. 
The shop for the dipping and 
drying operations, which are the 
most dangerous, is particularly 
well ventilated. The general 
arrangement is shown in the 
two figures, (21, 22.) The build- 
ing is GG feet by 49 feet. Along 
the two sides are placed the dry- 
ing-chambers E E E, 18 in num- 
ber, each being G feet wide, IG 
feet deep, and 7 feet high to the 
spring of the ceiling-arch, and 9 
feet to the crown. They are con- 
nected with the ventilating-tun- 
nel c c by a triple row of open- 
ings, o, 0,0, 10 inchesby 5 inches, 
at the floor-level, and receive 
the external air either by chimneys extending above the roof or by 
openings, 9 inches by G inches, placed at the bottom of the iron doors of 
the drying-rooms, and taking air from the main hall. The doors are G 
feet high and nearly 3 feet wide. The drying-rooms are heated by three 
rows of 2-inch steam-inpes placed under the floor. The channels in 
which these jjipes are placed should receive cold air to be carried 
directl}' into the drying-chambers. Valves Avorked from the outside 
of the chambers control the admission and removal of air, which should 
enter with a temperature of about ]10°, that of the chamber not cxceed- 
ino- 95^. 




290 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

In front of each range of drying-chambers there is a small railroad, 
extending from the melting-room to the warehouse. An iron car takes 
the prepared composition, and carries it to the drying-chambers in suc- 
cession. Before each door or station, an orifice, o' o', made in the floor, 
exerts a powerful draught, which draws the vapors into the exterior lateral 
tunnel. The dipping is quickly done, and the frames are immediately 
placed in the drying-chambers, the iron doors of "which are carefidly 
closed. 

The middle portion of the building is reserved for boxing. Under 
the tables are also j)laced ventilatiug-openings, o" o". The filled boxes 
are finally put in the car and carried to the warehouse. 

The main passage-ways c c and c' c' enter separately into the base of 
the chimney, and are kept apart there by small vertical walls, in order 
to prevent contrary currents and to allow them to be regulated at m ill. 

By means of these arrangements, all smell of phosphorus in the main 
factory is prevented, and the men who work there are no longer exposed 
to necrosis. By taking the additional precaution of having them fre- 
quently visited by physicians, and of maintaining proper rotation in 
the hands employed in the diflerent shops, they will be completely freed 
from this terrible disease. 

MANUFACTORIES. 

72. In some manufactories, it is essential for the quality of the pro- 
ducts that the internal temperature be not allowed to fall below a cer- 
tain limit ; or, in other words, that the manufactory be heated even in 
spring and fall, and that the windows be kept closed. From this it fol- 
lows that the air, not being changed, becomes gradually saturated with 
vapors and cutaneous emanations, and becomes at last unliealthful. 

The workmen being thus kept continually perspiring, although they 
take off part of their clothing, go out afterward into the cold air, and 
often contract serious affections of the respiratory organs. 

The conditions of the manufacture may be secured at the same time 
with those of hygiene by a strong ventilation, which shall constantly 
furnish fresh air of the necessary degree of temperature and even of 
moisture while regularly carrying off the foul air. With this change of 
air, a temperature of 75° or 77° will be found comfortable, and the work- 
men no longer be continually perspiring in an atmosphere constantly 
becoming more impure. 

The rules to be observed are the same as those mentioned before, and 
a complete change three or four times an hour will usually be sufficient. 

The escape-steam from the engines is in such cases usually employed 
for heating, and it may be so regulated as to give the desired tempera- 
ture to the fresh air, and the smoke-stack of the steam-engine will, with- 
out additional expense, maintain the draught required for carrying off the 
foul air. 

In cases where the smoke-stack would be otherwise too small, the 



WARMING AND. VENTILATION. 



291 



draught may be increased or entirely produced in it by beating it by steam, 
or by placing a steam-jet in it as in a locomotive. 

73. Wo7^kshops in icMch dust more or less dangerous to hreathe is pro- 
duced. — In a large number of occupations, the division of the raw ma- 
terials i)roduces dust, which may be fine or coarse, heavy or light, 
harmless or injurious, and which it is important to remove from the 
workman and carry out of the building. 

In most of these cases, ventilation, by means of a draught produced by 
heat, would be insufficient, at least unless it were made extremely power- 
ful by an intense heat. It would be sufficient for light dust of very 
finely-divided materials, but for heavier dust, such as that produced by 
grindstones, it becomes necessary to use mechanical apparatus to force, 
through suitably-arranged pipes, currents of air at a proper velocity, 
which trial alone can determine. 

In winter, when artificial heat maybe required, as well as in summer, 
when it is unnecessary, it is essential that the discharge-openings should 
be placed as near as possible to the machines which produce the dust or 
emanations, and that the openings for admission of fresh air should, in 
general, be far off, in order that the velocity should gradually increase 
from the point of admission to that of exit. 

But if the shop contain few workmen, if it is naturally sufficiently 
well aired, and if it is only required to carry off the dust as directly and 
quickly as possible, it would be better that the air be admitted under the 
cover which should completely surround the apparatus or the machine 
above the point where the dust is produced, while the draught is applied 
below the same point and the dust is carried directly out of the building. 
The preceding remarks apply especially to those shops in which but 
a few detached instruments are used. 

74. Cutlery-worlcs. — One of the most dangerous occupations is that of 
the cutler. When proper i^recautions are not taken, the dust arising 
from the grindstones, which are used dry, enters into the respiratory 
passages. 

These dangers are reduced and almost removed by the following ar- 
rangements: 

23, 24.) — The stones should be sur- 
rounded as completely as possible 
by a movable covering of wood or 
sheet-iron, which should have no 
opening in front but what is abso- 
lutely necessary for the work. 

In order to avoid the choking-up 
of the ventilating-pipes, it will be 
necessary to provide special dis- 
charge-pipes for tlie water, some- 
what as indicated in the figures, according as the stones are partly 
below or entirely above the floor. 



Grindstones used u'ct. 




292 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



FJQ.2^1- 




The passage intended for carrying off the dust should be placed un- 
derneath the stone, and beyond the point where the work is applied, 

regarding the direction of the mo- 
tion. It should have a breadth a 
little greater than that of the stone, 
and a depth of eight inches, at 
most, for the largest stones. A 
sliding door serves to close it when- 
ever dry dust is not produced. 
The water-discharge pipe should 
also have a valve, which may be 
closed when water is not used, and 
when it is desired to carry off the 
dust produced when the stone is 
trued. 
The separate air-tubes from each 
stone lead to a collecting-pipe 16 inches by 12 inches, to which they are 
united by couplings. 

If there are only four or live stones in the works, a single collecting- 
pipe will be sufiQcient, and the blower should be placed at the end. But 
if there are eight or ten stones in one line, it will be better to place a 
second collector, 16 inches by 13 inches, in the middle of the length of 
the first, and perpendicular to its direction. The blowing-apparatus 
should be placed in the extremity of the second pipe. 

Finally, if there are two long parallel rows, with eight or ten stones 
in each, they should also be connected with the second collector, or with 
a third, 16 inches by 20 inches, communicating with the ventilator. 

In all these arrangements, movable valves should be placed at the 
junction of each of the pipes, to prevent the circulation of air in those 
which are not used at any time for carrying off the dust, since it is not 
intended to ventilate at the same time all the stones of the same mill. 
The valves "placed at the head of each pipe should also be closed when 
it is not being ventilated. 

But the greatest difiQculty in rendering these places. healthful, as in 
most other cases, arises from the carelessness of the workmen, and in 
the negligence of the foremen, who do not insist on the strict observance 
of the regulations. 

76. Ap2)lication. — At Chatellerault's armory, the results obtained by 
Peugeot & Bros., of Yalentigney, (Doubs,) in their hardware manufac- 
tory, were made use of, blowing-machines having been placed in two 
shops containing each — 

Main stones, 8 inches in diameter 2 

Grooving-stones, 4 feet in diameter 16 



IS 

A fan-blower, 31 inches in diameter and 16 inches wide, parallel to the 

axis, and having a central opening 11 inches in diameter, making 900 



WARMING AND VENTILATION 293 

to 1,000 revolutions a second, and requiring at most 8 to 10 4iorse-power 
to run it, easily removes all the dust produced during the truing of the 
two main stones and twelve of the grooviug-stones, the other passages 
being closed. 

The axis of the fan-blower is placed in the line of the last collecting- 
pipe, and is closed on the side opposite that pipe; the air carrying the 
dust is expelled at the outer circumference, which is entirely free. 

Notwithstanding the success obtained in large works by the arrange- 
ments mentioued above, it would be better in all cases to separate the 
workmen into small shops of two stones each, each furnished with spe- 
cial ventilating-apparatus similar to that which we have described. 
Eecent trials seem to show that ventilation obtained by forcing in air 
would in this case prove very satisfactory. 

DRYING-CHAIVIBEES. 

77. The general arrangements which should be adopted ibr drying- 
chambers are in conformity with the rules previously given. The air 
should flow in at the top ; and, as in this case, it is always very hot, it 
enters of its own accord, but it is necessary that it should be introduced 
uniformly. The openings for the escape of the air saturated with moist- 
ure should be placed near the floor and on the whole circumference of 
the room. It issufiicient to connect the ventilating-pipes with the base 
of the chimney of the heating-apparatus. 

The temperature which it is necessary to keep up in the drying- 
chambers depends upon the nature of the articles to be dried. For 
vegetable substances and flour, it need not exceed 105° or 110° ; for 
linen and cloth, loS^". 

The particular conditions in each application may lead to some modi- 
fications of the general rules. Linen-drying rooms present a case which 
it is well to specify. 

LINEN-DEYING CHAMBERS. 

78. The arrangements for these useful accessories (Figs. 25, 2G) to" 
large bleaching-establishments have been carefully studied by Bouillon, 
Muller & Co. The linen is carried to the wringing-machine, which re- 
moves from it a great part of the water which it contains after having 
been washed ; but it still retains about one-third of the total weight 
when it reaches the drying-room. When it is hung vertically, this water 
accumulates principally at the lower part, which therefore becomes hard 
to dry. Again, when the air enters through a single opening at the up- 
per part of the chamber, the interruption to the circulation of hot air 
caused by the linen which hangs in vertical bands and the force of the 
draught which tends to draw the air directly" toward the ventilating-opeu- 
ings prevents the drying from proceeding uniformly, especially in large 
dry ing-houses. The observation of these irregular efl'ects has led Bouil- 



2y4 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



Ion, Muller & Co. to adopt, for their latest linen-drying chambers, the 
following arra-ugements : 

The chambers of which a drying-room is composed (Figs. 2o, 2G) are 
very small, and are at most 10 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 5 feet high, or 
200 cubic feet in area. 




^ 

^ 



nor 



^ 




r/G. 26 




The floor is composed of two pieces of curved sheet-iron, forming at 
the same time the top of the warm-air chamber of the heater below. 
These two pieces of sheet-iron leave au opening o between them, w hich 
extends the whole length of the drying-room, and through which the 
hot air is introduced, which, after having dried the bottom and dampest 
part, rises with the vapor it produces toward the ceiling, and descends 
again to the ventilating-openings, arranged near the floor along the 
■whole length of the side-walls, the latter being made hollow and pro- 
vided with pipes leading to the chimney, which also contains the smoke- 
l)ipe, as shown in the figures. 

The linen is arranged outside of the drying-chamber on brass tubes 
sliding on iron rods extending the whole length of the chamber. These 
rods and the tubes which they carry are placed at the middle of a nar- 
row door of the same height as the drying-chamber, which is only 
opened when the wet linen is put in, or the dry taken out. 

Each chamber contains 8 rods. They receive, in two charges, 106 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 295 

pounds of damp linen, in which 35 pounds of water remain after they 
have been wrung. 

The evaporation of these 35 pounds of water is effected in an hour 
by the consumption of about 11 pounds of coal. 

The temperature of the chamber is kept at 158°, and the amount of 
air passing into the chamber varies from 35,000 to 42,000 cubic feet an 
hour. 

Four chambers, with their 32 rods, are attended to by one woman, 
who fills and empties them. 

According to the rules previously given, the 35 pounds of water 

evai^orated, requiring 35 x 1170 = 40950 units of heat, and the 11 

pounds of coal giving 159,000, the calorific effect of the apparatus is 

40950 
equal to ^^j^ = .20. 

The same result was also obtained from some experiments made for 
seven years at La Saltpetriere, in which, with a consumption of 6,415 
pounds of coal, 18,940 pounds of water were evaporated, the calorific 
effect in these experiments was found to be .24. 

POWDER-DRYING ROOMS. 

79. In the case of powdered materials spread out to a certain thick- 
ness, it is often necessary to use blowers which drive the air under a 
table, closed on all sides, the top of which is formed of wire-gauze, on 
which the substances to be dried are placed. 

Thus, in powder-mills, the air driven under the gauze has ordinarily 
a pressure measured by a column of water -^j. or J inch high, and a tem- 
perature of 1120 to 140°. The thickness of the layer of powder varies 
from i to 3 inches, according to its nature. The air is heated to the 
proper temperature by means of water or steam pipes. 

Although, in such cases, blowers are most frequently used, the same 
result may often be obtained by means of a well-regulated draught 
alone. At the powder-mill of St. Chamas, a drying-room, warmed by 
hot-water pipes placed under the table, and supplied with a chimney 
containing a hot-water vessel to produce a draught, has worked satis- 
factorily even in the case of blasting-powder containing 8 or 9 per cent, 
of water. 

BARRACKS. 

80. The volume of air to be renewed every hour for each individual 
being given at 1,000 cubic feet during the day, and 1,400 to 1,800 dur- 
ing the night, the proportions and arrangements of the openings will be 
determined by the preceding rules. 

But it is principally, and it may be said solelj^ during the night that 
the ventilation of the barrack-rooms is necessary, since, during the day, 
the soldiers are almost always out of it. 

The heating of these rooms during the day is intended only to enable 



206 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

those wbo return from duty, after getting wet, to dry tbeir clothes and 
shoes; for this purpose, ventilating lire-places are preferable to sheet-iron 
stoves, because, in addition to the radiant heat they give out, they have 
in this case the advantage of carrying off the vapor arising from the 
damp clothing, which would make the room unhealthy and disagreeable. 
The fire never needs to be kept up long, and it cannot be counted upon 
to produce a constant change of air. 

If natural ventilation alone be employed, it is necessary, according to 
observations made at the Bonaparte barracks in Paris, that the open- 
ings for the admission and discharge should be proportioned as folloAVS : 

Area of openings and flues to each bed in summer : discharge, 31 
square inches ; admission, G2 square inches. 

In winter, spring, and autumn, these i^roportions would be excessive, 
and means should be provided for closing part of the openings, so as to 
confine the circulation of air within proper limits. But the regulation 
of the registers or valves should not be left to the discretion of the 
soldiers. 

The necessity of preventing the soldiers, in their ignorance, from stop- 
ping up the escape-openings requires that in this case the rule should 
be violated which prescribes that these should be placed near the beds 
and the floor, as it will be necessary to place them near the ceiling, as 
well as those for the admission of fresh air. 

Ihe first should open above the space between the beds, and the flues 
should be placed near the smoke-flue or should receive the stove-pipe 
when stoves are used. The second, intended for the introduction of 
fresh air, are also placed near the ceiling, and made in the face of the 
opposite wall. 

This arrangement presents the advantage that if, as often happens in' 
ventilation due simply to the action of natural temperatures, the direc- 
tion of motion changes so that the escape-pipe becomes that of admis- 
sion, no discomfort is experienced by the men, who in both cases are 
removed as far as possible from the openings. 

These precautions will be completed by placing horizontal or inclined 
shelves under the openings, which will force the air always to remain 
nearly or quite horizontal in entering or passing out. 

There is no reason to fear that the air flowing in will immediately rush 
to the escape-openings before circulating through the rooms; the difler- 
ence of internal and external temperature will always enable the circu- 
lation to be maintained. 

81. Utilization of the lost heat of coolcing-stoTes. — In most barracks, the 
cooking-arrangements of the companies which occupy that part of the 
building reached by one staircase, and often also all those used for a 
whole wing, are collected in a single room on the ground-floor, devoted 
to this purpose. There, separate stoves are used, in cooking, for each 
company, squadron, or battery. Beside these stoves, strongly heated 
twice a day, or even in their chimneys, it would be very easy and inex- 



I 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 297 

pensive to place hot- water receivers in the form of a drum, or of pipes 
such as are oTteu used in heaters, into which hot-water pipes should be 
tapped, and then carried vertically in the foul-air flue leading from the 
rooms, thus securing a change of air at all times and without expense. 
In this way, also, baths might be supplied, which would be of great 
service for soldiers' hospitals. Ventilation being, as has been said, much 
more important at night, when all the men of one mess are together, 
than during the day, when most of them are out of doors, the registers 
— the regulation of which should only be made by the order and under 
the direction of the adjutant of the week — will serve to cheek or prevent 
escape of air during the day, so as to accumulate heat in the flues for 
the night. 

HOSPITALS. 

82. General plans and dimensions to he adopted for the ventilation of 
Jiospitals. — It is only j)roposed in what follows to give the propor- 
tions of the principal parts of the flues and pipes which it is necessary 
to use for the ventilation of hospital-wards, in order to secure the re- 
moval of vitiated air and the introduction of fresh air. 

These proportions apply also to the difl'erent plans which local condi- 
tions may cause the architect to adopt. 

The amount of air to be renewed in the sick-rooms may vary, accord- 
ing to circumstances, from 2,000 to more than .3,500 cubic feet an hour 
for each bed ; 2,800 will here be taken as a basis for the calculations. 

. When local conditions permit, the foul air should be drawn off through 
descending passages ; openings into them being made behind the head 
of the beds, at the floor-level, but in the vertical walls, to be in number 
at least equal to one for every two beds in ordinary hospitals, and one 
to each bed in lying-in hospitals. 

When a hot-water heating-apparatus is used, and when the plans 
adopted as well as the proximity of chimneys permit, the waste heat 
from the small heaters and hot-water tanks used in the hospital should 
be made use of to assist the draught. 

But it is not necessary that the use of these little reservoirs, which 
have but a small capacity, should lead to the exclusive adoption of the 
up-cost draught, as L. Duvoir has done, and which is less advantageous. 

83. Advantages of the doicn-cast dravght. — It will be remembered that 
the arrangements required by the down-cast draught lessen very much 
the weakening of the walls by the passage of ventilating-flues. 

Thus, for a building with rooms on three floors, as in the case of Lari- 
boisiere Hospital, the piers of the third story are not pierced for any 
flue, because their own commences at the floor ; those of the second 
story are only pierced by a single flue coming from the third floor; and 
those of the ground-floor only contain the two flues belonging to the 
second and third stories. 

The thickness of the walls being greater at the lower stories, the flues 
"would always be proportionally less injurious with descending draughts 



298 



WARMING AND VENTILATION, 



than with ascending draughts, the latter requiring the largest number 
of flues to be made in the upper stories, where the walls are thinnest. 
Figs. 27, 28, which represent onl^^ the general features, show the ad- 




FIQ.28 




vantages presented by down-cast draughts over up-cast draughts as re- 
gards the weakening of the walls by the ventilating-flues. The down- 
draught, besides, as we have said, renders it easy, in order to give due 
force to the draught, to make use of the entire height of the main ventilat- 
ing-chimney, to the bottom of which the flues are connected. It forms 
a very economical means of utilizing the heat expended in producing it. 
For a building of a construction similar to that of Lariboisiere Hospi- 
tal, where the piers at the ground-floor have a mean width of 10 feet 
and a thickness of 2 feet 7 inches, or 26 square feet of sectional area, if 
the two flues are carried from the second and third stories to the base- 
ment, they require, at most, in the walls — including the partition between 
them and even the interior brick lining — a space 2xl'+l"=2' 1" broad, 
and 9"+2"=:ll" deep, or a total sectional area of 1.9 square feet: that 
is to say, one-fourteenth of the total sectional area of the pier, which could 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 299 

not have any effect ou the stability of a well-constructed building with 
a good foundation. 

On the contrary, if the ventilating-flues be carried ui^ward, the piers 
of the third floor, which are only 10 feet by 2 feet=20 square feet in sec- 
tional area, would be pierced by three flues, making a channel 3 x l'+3" 
=3' 3" broad, by 11" deep, or 2' 9" sectional area, equal to one-seventh 
that of the masonry. This would not be admissible. 

In cases where the flues for the introduction of fresh air have also to 
be provided for in the piers, though this can sometimes be avoided in 
hospitals the wards of which contain only twelve or fourteen beds, it 
will be seen, then, that the enfeebling of the walls by the passage of all 
the flues will not endanger the solidity of properly-built walls. 

84. Cases ichere the icalls have notsufficient thickness. — When the nature 
of the materials used or local circumstances do not permit of giving the 
walls sufficient thickness to allow of cutting flues in them with safety, 
ventilating-shafts may be made projecting from the walls in the interior 
of the rooms, making them of light brick work. Then, to diminish as 
little as possible the available breadth of these rooms, and to prevent 
hurting their appearance, the depth of these flues should be restricted 
by making them occupy almost the entire breadth of the piers. 

85. Arrangement of the ventilating shafts. — The necessary arrangements 
should be made to j)revent ventilating shafts or flues from being crossed 
by the beams or joists of the floor, which can easily be avoided by the 
use of trimmers. 

If there are no cellars under the buildings, which is not indispensable, 
sufficiently large vaults should be made to give the necessary area of 
l^assage-ways, and these should be covered on top, as well as the floor of 
the first story, with a coating of tar-concrete, to protect it from moisture. 
If any difficulty be encountered in carrying the ventilating-flues below the 
floor of the first story, they may stop at this floor. It is only in excep- 
tional cases, or in buildings already constructed presenting peculiar ob- 
stacles, that the flues should be carried from below upward in the up]3er 
floors or in the roof. 

In every case, the discharge-flues corresponding to beds placed on dif- 
ferent floors one above another, should be kept separate in their verti- 
cal course and not united in groups in partial horizontal conductors, unless 
separated by partitions for an extent of 10 or 12 feet beyond the outlet 
of those which are the nearest to the main veutilating-chimney, in order 
to prevent as far as possible the establishment of communications from 
one story to another. 

8G. Dimensions of ventilating flues and collecting -jyipes. — The sectional 
area to be given to the first ventilating-passages should be calculated on 

OgQQ 

the basis of the renewal of 2,800 cubic feet of air an hour, or ^— = .78 

obOO 

cubic foot a second for each bed, and at a mean velocity of 2.3 feet a 

78 
second, which would give ]j-^ = .31 square foot, or 49 square inches of 



300 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

sectional area for each bed ; and as it is admitted that in common hos- 
pitals it will be sufficient to have one flue to every two beds, it will be 
necessary to have 98 square inches sectional area, or to make the flues, 
say, 9 inches deep by 11 inches broad. 

For lying-in hospitals the volume of air to be renewed being 3,500 
cubic feet an hour to each bed, or 98 cubic feet a second, the sectional 
area of the flues should be .43 square foot, or 62 square inches. 

In the first collecting-pipes, which unite the flues by groups, a mean 
velocity of from 3 to 4 feet a second is allowed, and the sectional area 
may be calculated on this basis and according to the number of beds 
which it is necessary to ventilate. 

The second collecting-pipes, if any are formed to receive the vitiated 
air from the preceding, should be proportioned by supposing a mean 
velocity of from 4i to 5 feet a second. 

87. VentilatingcMmney. — Finally, in the main ventilatingchimney, it 
is granted that the mean velocity should be about 6 feet a second, and 
that in the upper part it should be at least 6^ feet a second, in order 
not to be checked by gales. 

At the bottom of the chimney there should be an iron grate, sur- 
rounded by a brick rim, completely isolated from the walls, in order that 
the air coming in from the collecting-pipes may partly circulate around 
it, and only become warmed to a moderate though sufficiently high tem- 
perature. 

In every case, there should be arranged a direct passage opening to 
the outside at the base of the chimney, through which the fireman may 
feed the fire. 

If obliged to perform the work in the foul-air gallery, he would run 
the risk of being suflbcated, or at least of experiencing much discomfort. 

The mean interior temperature of the. chimney should in all cases ex- 
ceed that of the external air by a constant difference of 36° to 45°, in 
order to give to the draught the same force at all times. The ventilat- 
ing-fire should be much more energetic in summer than in winter. 

Similar methods proportioned upon the same data should be adopted 
in cases where the arrangement of the different wards leads to the use 
of a single ventilatingchimney for a large number of buildings. 

Means for maintaining the regularity of the fire will be given further 
on. 

88. Cases icherc the foul air may he drawn off at the floor-level. — When 
the general plan adopted for the building includes a veranda on one side, 
the foul air may be drawn off at each story, to avoid the necessity of 
making vertical flues in the walls, by placing the ventilating-chimney 
at some point in the veranda, and carrying the ventilating-pipes into it, 
iflacing them between the floor-beams. (Fig. 29.) 

A similar arrangement will render it easy to improve the ventilation 
by using a part of the heat from the kitchen and bath boilers, the hos- 
pital-stoves, smoke-flues, kitchen-ranges, &c. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



301 



FIG. 29 



In such a Ccase, each ward would ha^e a maia ventilating-chimney 
carrying off the foul air from each story in flues separated from each 

other as ftir as to the top of the upper 
story. At the bottom of each of the col- 
lecting-flues maybe kept a little auxil- 
iary heater, to be used only when neces- 
sary in order to obtain a sufficiently 
powerful draught. 

It should also be understood that iti 
every case the interior surface of the 
flues should be covered with as smooth 
a coating as possible, to diminish the 
resistance to the motion of the air, and 
that the openings should be arranged so 
as to permit of cleaning the flues at least 
twice a year, in order to remove the cob- 
webs and other obstacles which would 
interfere with the circulation of air. 

In general, it would be well to place on 
top of the ventilating-chimney a cowl, 
which the wind would keep with its 
mouth away from the wind, so that 
strong Avinds would assist the draught, 
instead of checking it, as they would do 
without this precaution: 

The proportions and the general ar- 
rangements which have been indicated 
should also be observed when it becomes 
necessary to draw off the foul air either 
at the level of the floors, as just men- 
tioned, or at the top of the buildings, as 
will often occur, especially in the case 

of existing buildings. 

Whenever local conditions permit, the smoke-flues of the heating-ap- 
paratus should be carried up in the main ventilating-chimney, in order 
to use the heat they give out. They should be made of cast iron and 
kept separate. 

89. Utilization of the waste heat of laundries and Icitchens.— The furnaces 
of the laundry-boilers should, if possible, be placed at the base of the 
ventilating-chimney, in order to assist the ventilation by means of the 
heat given out in the furnaces by the gaseous products of combustion. 

90. Application of the preceding rules.— Let us take the case of a hospital 
of 100 beds, containing two wards, with but one ventilating-chimney, hav. 
ing two stories, containing together 50 beds in each ward there being 
four halls with 12 beds, and two rooms with one bed each. 

Under these conditions, each hall will contain six beds on each side, 




302 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

and there will be three ventilating-flues, 100 square inches in sectional 
area, or 8^ x 12 inches. 

The vertical flues should be carried under the floor of the ground- 
story, and joined to the first horizontal collectors intended to furnish 
passage to the air brought by the first, and each should carry off 12 x .78= 
9.36 cubic feet a second with a velocity of 3.28 a second. They should 

9 36 
then have a section of -i--,=2.86 square feet, or be 1 foot 8 inches 
o.jJ8 

square, for example. 

One of these flues, which would also ventilate the two single-bed bed- 
rooms, or 14 X. 78=10.92 cubic feet, should have a sectional area of 

- "^ =3.34 square feet, or should be 1 foot 8 inches by 2 feet. 
3.28 
If these pipes do not lead directly to the foot of the chimney, and if 
the general arrangements adopted render it necessary to carry the first 
collecting-pipes into a second collector, the volume of air which the lat- 
ter will be obliged to pass will be 50 x. 78=39 cubic feet, with a velocity 

39 
of 4.6 feet a second. Its transverse section will then be equal to -7—,= 

4.0 

8.50 square feet, and it may have the dimensions 2 feet 10 inches by 2 

feet 10 inches. 

If the main ventilating-chimney should have to carry off the foul air 

of both wards, or that from 100 beds = 280,000 cubic feet an hour, or 78 

cubic feet a second, with a mean velocity of C feet a second, its internal 

78 
sectional area should be—. =13 square feet, and its mean internal diam- 

b 

eter 4 feet. At the upper part, this diameter should be reduced to 3 feet 
10 inches to make the velocity there (U- ii*et a second. 

91. Introduction of fresh air. — Tlio oiicnings for the introduction of 
warm or cold air should always be plact'd near the ceiling, and distrib- 
uted as uniformly as possible throughout the whole extent of the halls 
in the proportion of one to every two beds if possible, or at least one to 
every four beds. 

When they are made in the walls, they should be furnished with regis- 
ters in the form of slats inclined 20° or 25° to the horizon in order to 
force the air in that direction toward the ceiling. 

The transverse section of the vertical or other flues should be calcu- 
lated so that the air will traverse them with a velocity not exceeding 3 
or 4 feet a second. That of those through which the air flows immedi- 
ately into the room should be determined by the condition that the 
entering velocity should not exceed 3 or 4 feet a second. 

In the case where the air flows from above vertically downward, 
through openings in the ceiling itself, which may take place where 
double floors are used or where a loft serves as an air-chamber, the sum 
of the clear sectional area of the passages should be calculated on the 
condition that the velocity should not exceed 18 inches or 2 feet a 
second. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 303 

When ordinary heaters are used for heating, the warm air which 
they supply should be introduced before its admission into the halls 
into a mixing-chamber, where a sufficient quantity of external air is 
also admitted, in order to moderate as required the temperatjire of the 
air supplied to the rooms. 

To secure the proper mixture of external air with the warm air from 
the heating-apparatus, it will be necessary to keep the fresh air above 
the current of warm air by means of more or less wide partitions. It 
will then happen that, as the first or denser stratum tends to fall while 
the second or lighter stratum rises, the mingling will necessarily take 
place. This applies as well to separate and direct openings for the ad- 
mission of warm and fresh air in halls as to those for the admission of 
air into the mixing-chambers. The partitions should be made of brick 
laid flat, and be at least two inches thick. 

During the period of fires, the temperature of the inflowing air should, 
for healthful ventilation, differ as little as possible from that intended 
to be kept up in the halls, which should be uniformly about 00°. 

The mixing-chambers should be formed either in the floor above the 
the heaters or in the corridors or small rooms. 

Eegisters should be placed in the mixing-chambers, to permit the 
temperature of the air suj^plied by them to be regulated at will. 

Similar arrangements should be made when hot-water or steam heat- 
ing-apparatus is used. 

If the hospital stands by itself and is in a healthial location, the 
external-air supply may be taken either at the ground-level from the 
middle of a lawn or flower-bed, as at Vincennes and the lying-in hospital 
at St. Pptersburg, or at the level of each floor. 

Descending currents will not be required to carry the air from a cer- 
tain height, except in cases where the jiroximity of more or less un- 
healthful buildings would lead to the fear of infection in the air at the 
ground-level. 

In that case, the chimney for bringing in air should be placed as far 
as possible from that for carrying it off. The sectional area of the 
former, and in general that of all external openings for the admission 
of air, should be calculated so that the velocity of admission should 
not exceed 2 feet a second, in order that the draught produced in the 
vicinity of the openings may only extend a small distance. 

The openings for the admission of air entering at a considerable height 
should be provided with valves or doors, which may close them if re- 
quired. 

In summer, when the action of the draught in drawing in fresh air is 
not assisted by the increase of temperature which the heating-apparatus 
gives to the fresh air in winter, there should be made in the walls, espe- 
cially on the faces exposed to the north or the east, auxiliary openings 
similar to those previously mentioned, and capable of being opened or 



304 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

closed at will by means of internal valves furnished vfitli self-closing 
springs. 

As the air thus introduced may be too cool at night, it is necessary 
that it should be directed from the lower part of the room toward the 
ceiling, and that its velocity at entrance should be about 2 feet a second, 
in order that it may be rapidly diminisbed before it arrives at the 
escape-openings. 

The regulating-apparatus connected with the registers should be so 
arranged as to be exclusively under the control of those in charge of 
this service. 

When any arrangement for ventilation on the exhaust-system has 
been carried out, it may easily be determined by direct experiments 
easily made in the main ventilatiugchimney, or, if desired, in the sepa- 
rate flues, whether the jirescribed amount of air is really drawn off, 
and what is the corresponding excess of temperature in the chimney 
over that of the external air; and If with this excess, which usually 
will not vary, as has been previously stated, much from 35° to 45°, the 
ventilation be found sufficient, it will then only be necessary to regulate 
the heat in the chimney so that its temperature will always exceed by 
the same amount that of the external air. 

92. Arrangements for ventilation in summer. — When the main halls of 
the hospital are warmed at the same time by general heaters and by 
fire-places — of which latter the ventilating fire-places described in § 13 
should be preferred, as they at the same time carry off foul air and 
introduce a considerable amount of fresh air properly warmed — open- 
ings for the admission of fresh air should be made in addition to those 
of the ventilating-chimney, and arranged, as has been described, for 
summer-ventilation. 

Stairways, waiting-rooms, and other places giving access to the halls 
should be heated to a temperature which, especially for the latter, 
should be at least equal to that of the halls. In this way, their effect in 
producing draughts of air will be diminished. It would be well, then, 
to put up heaters in these places even when fire-places are used in the 
main rooms, 

93. Use of tJie heat given out hy the lights. — In hospitals lighted by gas, 
it will be well to assist the draught by means of the heat given out by 
the burners, which plan will have the double advantage of rendering the 
ventilation more energetic, and of removing the unhealthful products 
of combustion. This should especially be applied in the case of water- 
closets, which should have double doors opening from without inward 
in the direction of the draught. 

The kitchens and the imvies of hospitals should be removed from the 
hospital proper, and ventilated by a powerful current similar to those 
which will be described hereafter for such places. 

94. Dispositio7is to he made in case of crowding or epidemics. — When the 
draught is produced by a circulation of warm water or steam, the energy 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 305 

of which cannot be increased much beyond its normal rate, it will be 
advisable to phice gas-burners in the main ventilating-chimney, to be 
lighted only when a temporary overcrowding or the fear of epidemics 
renders tlieir use necessary. 

The number of burners and their consumption of gas will be calcu- 
lated on the approximate basis of 500 cubic feet of air removed to each 
cubic feet of gas burned. 

This auxiliary means is not economical, and should only be employed 
in exceptional circumstances. 

AsVlums. 

95, Asylums, designed for the old, insane, or infirm, do not require, 
for salubrity, as much ventilation as hospitals. 

A renewal of air at the rate of 1,000 cubic feet of air an hour for 
each individual during the day and 1,400 cubic feet at night will be 
sufficient. It will then only be necessary to adopt the plans and the 
dimensions which have been given in detail for hospitals. 

For heating during the winter, if the rooms are not very large, venti- 
lating fire-places should be used, which will also secure the renewal of 
air. But for spring, summer, and autumn, it will be necessary to have 
recourse, for the removal of foul air, to the use of a ventilating-chimney 
and the arrangements before mentioned. 

CHURCHES. 

96. The great size of churches, the constant opening of their doors, 
the extent of glazed windows — always imperfectly closed — the openings 
in the vaults for the suspension of lamps or draperies and foi- the pass- 
age of bell-ropes, seem in general to render unnecessary the adoption 
of special arrangements for the admission and the removal of air, and 
reduce for the winter the question to that of warming. 

For the churches of large cities, frequented at many hours of the day, 
it seems economical to keep up an active fire, constantly, day and night. 
Either hot-air heaters, with chambers for the admission of cold air, or 
hot-water heaters, may be used. The first suit more particularly the 
small churches, where a single heater, placed about the middle of the 
building, will suffice. The second, which carry heat to great distances, 
and give, besides, a more equable temperature, should be preferred for 
large churches. They have, in addition, the advantage of being readily 
adapted to ventilate certain attached places, such as catechisiug-rooras, 
where the air is constantly vitiated by the presence of many children. 

What is most necessary to warm in churches is the floor itself. For 
this purpose it would be well to make the hot-water pipes branch out 
under many parts of the floor, and limit the number of fresh-air openings. 
This arrangement is similar to that of which traces are found in Roman 
constructions. 
20 s 



30G WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

The air to be warmed by the heaters is taken from outside. A suflfi- 
cient number of pipes in the aisles and passages admit the air through 
numerous openings placed in the vertical faces of the walls, or in the 
bases of the columns, a little above the floor, and not at the floor-level, 
as is often wrongly done. 

During the summer season, the interior of churches, strongly heated 
during the day by the action of the sun on the roof and through the 
large windows, is often uncomfortable to stay in, especially in the morn- 
ing. It would be easy to avoid this trouble by arranging a number of 
windows to be opened at night, in .order to admit the fresh air, and 
to be shut in the morning. The interior, thus cooled during the night, 
would be less warmed during the day. 

These precautions, much neglected in France, where the heat of sum- 
mer seldom proves unpleasant, are regularly carried out in Rome, where 
it lasts a long time. A rule of the custodians of St. Peter's requires 
that the windows of the upper galleries be opened every evening in 
summer and closed every morning. 

What precedes only applies to ordinary churches ; but in the case of 
chapels or subterranean churches, the interior height of which is very 
limited and which are often occupied by a large number of worshippers 
and fully lighted up, it becomes necessary to secure the renewal of air 
and the removal of the hot gases arising from the lights. The plans 
proposed in § 64 for night drawing-schools should then be adopted, 
producing a renewal of air at least five or six times an hour. 

In churches where great ceremonies require the use of large canopies, 
preventing the circulation of the air, and in which a great number of 
candles occasion often an extraordinary elevation of temperature,* it is 
very important that the construction should allow of forming, in the 
upper or lateral portion, as many openings as possible in order to allow 
the external air to flow in with a velocity which will be less the greater 
the number of these openings and the more uniformly they are distrib- 
uted. In tins way will be avoided the at times unendurable currents of 
air produced by the doors and the elevation of temperature. 

In winter, at the time of thaws after great cold, especially in the 
north, there is produced on the walls, and still more on the ceiling, a 
condensation of vapor, which often produces a sort of rain that afl'ects 
the paintings. In such cases, it would be well to carry the warm air 
supplied' by the heaters at about from 140° to 115^ directly to the up- 
per part of these edifices at the springing of the arches, in order to 
keep the vapor arising from the people in the lower portions of the 
church from condensing. 

RAILROAD-STATIONS. 

97. As an example of cases where it is proper to act contrary to the 
general rules given before, we will specify the methods to be adopted for 

*In a great fnucral-ceremony at Notre-Dame, Paris, the heat was such that the wax- 
tapers began to melt. 



WAEMING AND VENTILATION. 307 

railroad-stations, for markets, and for large buildings such as those for 
exhibitions. 

These immense buildings, covered in most cases with glass roofs, 
which often leave only a very small space for the escape of the smoke and 
steam ot the locomotives and of the hot air in summer, sometimes be- 
come unendurable for the employes. One end of the building is almost 
entirely shut in by the gable-wall containing the main entrance; the 
other usually has an opening only high enough for the passage of the 
locomotive; the sides occupied on the ground-level by waiting-rooms, &c., 
and on the second and third floors by offices, do not allow the air to 
have access to the building, and in the hot season the temperature rises 
near the ground-level to 104°, 113° and even 122"^, as has been observed 
at the stations of the Lyons, Eastern, and Strasburg railroads. 

In order to remedy this state of things, it is necessary to raise the sky- 
lights on the roof, not only because they are too low, but because in 
winter they cool the smoke and partially condense the escape-steam of 
the engine, and thus interfere with its removal. 

Instead of placing the sky-lights at the ridge of the roof, it would 
seem better to place them near the eaves, making them, as at present, 
equal to one-fourth or one-third the total surface. 

The ventilating-opening should be formed by two vertical walls of 
sheet-iron about 10 feet high, leaving between them a passage extend- 
ing the whole length of the roof, the breadth of which should be calcu- 
lated so as to renew the air of the Station at least twice or three times 
an hour, on the supposition that the heat of the sun in summer is suffi- 
cient to produce, in a sheet-iron chimney 10 feet high, a velocity of from 
IJ to 2 feet a second. 

To replace regularly the air removed without producing unpleasant 
currents at the end-openings of the station, it is necessary to increase the 
number of openings for admission of air, and place them as uniformly as 
possible throughout the extent of the station, and also to make large 
doorways in the two ends of the building. The total area of the fresh- 
air openings should be such that, with a velocity of at most 16 to 20 
inches a second, a volume of air may enter into the station equal to 
twice or three times its cubical capacity. 

98. Sjyrinlding of roofs. — In addition to the preceding arrangements, 
proper for all seasons, it would be well, in hot weather, to keep up a 
constant sprinkling of the roof, commencing at seven or eight o'clock 
in the morning and lasting till five o'clock in the evening, using about 
44 cubic feet of water an hour to every 100 square feet of roof-surface. 

This sprinkling, which will be sufficient to prevent the heating of the 
roof by the action of the solar rays, added to the continued aeration, 
will maintain the temperature within convenient limits during the hot 
season. 

99. Example. — The Orleans station is 348 feet long, 92 feet wide, 26 
feet high at the springing-line, and 44 feet to the ridge. Its cubical con- 
tent is about 1,130,000 cubic feet. 



308 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

.,..,.. t. .. r 13 ^- 3x1130000 
To renew the air three times an hour, it should carry off ........ 

=942 cubic feet a second. The velocity vrhich the solar heat may give to 
the escaping air being estimated at but If feet a second, the sectional are''^ 
of the veutilating-space should be 574 square feet ; and if the ventilating- 
passage is carried the whole length of the roof, which is 328 feet, it 
would suffice to make it 1 foot 9 inches wide. But as the part where there 
is most smoke and steam is usually near the end at which the trains leave, 
instead of making the ventilating-opeuing extend the whole length of 
the station, it would be better to give it greater breadth and less length, 
still retaining the same sectional area. 

COURTS AND COVEEED MARKETS. 

100. Similar arrangements should be adopted in the case of courts 
and for all covered markets. 

In the latter, where blinds are usually placed in the windows, the 
introduction of air is easily provided for, and it is particularly- the 
remov^al of foul air that requires attention. 

GLASS ROOFS AND CEILINGS. 

101. Injluence of glazed roofs and ceilings during the 2vinter, — If in the 
summer season the glazed roofs of stations and covered courts present 
the inconvenience of producing a heating effect, which it is necessary 
to overcome, in winter they have the contrary defect, which often leads 
to very disagreeable results. 

The conductibility of thin glass then leads to a considerable cooling 
of the interior layers of air in contact with the glass ; this air, becoming 
denser than that below, descends, and is constantly replaced by more, 
which is likewise cooled, and by this continued movement the rooms 
thus covered become very difficult to warm. 

To these troubles is added that of the motion of the cold air, which 
naturally flows toward the chimneys, or the discharge-openings, if there 
are any, so that the occupants feel a descending current of cold air, the 
more unpleasant the nearer they are to the chimney or the discharge- 
openings. 

If the glass roof is simple, and has, as is almost inevitably the case, 
joints, through which the external air — much colder than that in con- 
tact with the internal surface — penetrates into the room, the effects 
which have been mentioned become more sensible and disagreeable. 
There is also the danger that water will enter during rain-storms. 

It is, then, necessary in occupied buiUlings, when similar plans are 
adopted for lighting, to place under the roof a glass ceiling with as few 
joints as possible, and in the loft thus formed and limited above and 
below, to provide heating arrangements which will prevent the cooling 
of the ceiling, and thus to avoid the cold air currents which have just 
been referred to. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 309 

102. Ohserrations at Chateau de Ferri'eres. — The most striking example 
of these eftects which I have had occasion to observe is presented by 
the great reception-hall of the Chateau de Ferrieres, and it has furnished 
me with some facts which enable me to determine the amount of heat 
which such glass roofs may transmit, and, consequently, to determine 
approximately the methods of heating to be employed to prevent this 
cooling. 

The main reception-room of the Chateau de Ferrieres, called the Hall, 
is 75 feet long and 40 feet wide, or 3,000 square feet in area. 

It is completely surrounded by other reception-rooms, corridors, ves- 
tibules, &c. By means of heaters, all these are comfortably warmed, as 
well as the reception-room, which has no side-windows, but is lighted 
by a glass ceiling with a surface of 1,035 square feet, covered by a glass 
roof in seven sections, having together 2,459 squarefeet of cooling sur- 
face. 

A large fire-place, in the form of a monument, placed on one of the 
long sides of the room, completes its system of heating. 

When in winter the space between the glass roof and ceiling is not 
warmed during the day, the effects previously mentioned become the 
most unpleasant. The cousiderable draught of air produced by the fire- 
place draws to it the air cooled by contact with the ceiling; and the 
vicinity of thisfire-place, to which persons are naturally drawn byabright 
fire, becomes unendurable. 

At night, the room is lighted up by 1,000 gas-burners above the ceil- 
ing, which consume 3,500 cubic feet of gas an hour; there beiug then 
about one burner to every three square feet of floor-surface in the room. 
The heat given out by this abundant combustion more than suffices to 
prevent the cooling of the air of the room and the unpleasant eftects 
which would result from it. 

To obtain at least to a certain degree the same result during the day, 
it has beeu found necessary to keep up coke-fires in four cast-iron stoves, 
placed in the roof-space, in order to maintain there a temperature higher 
than that of the room. 

Observations made on the consumption of coke during the day and 
of gas at night, as well as upon the internal and external temperatures, 
enable us to calculate at least approximately the amount of heat re- 
quired in the space between the glass roof and ceiling in order to pre- 
vent the unpleasant cooling ettect. 

For this purpose, calling — 

C the number of units of heat which can pass in an hour through 

a pane of glass having the surface S ; 
T the temperature of the air on the warmer side ; 
T' that of the air on the colder side ; 

K a constant co-efiBcieut, representing the number of units of heat 
to a square foot of glass surface, and to a degree of difterence 
of temperature between the two faces : 



310 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

The amount of beat passiug iu an hour through a glass ceiling or roof 
will be given by the formula — 

C = K S (T - T') 
Engineers only admit for the co-efficient K the value K = 1, while 
the data obtained at Ferrieres seem to show that for a double glass cov- 
ering — that is to say, a glass roof and a glass ceiling — it should have the 
value K = 3, and for a single covering K = 4, especially as in the latter 
case cold air might penetrate into the interior through the joints of the 
glass. 

According to these values, allowing that the developed surface S' of 
the roof is one and a half times that of the glass ceiling S, tlie amount 
of coal to be burned in the coldest weather may be calculated as follows: 
Let— 

S = 1,000 square feet; 
S' = 1,500 square feet ; 
The temperature of the external air be 14P ; 
The temperature to be maintained within the roof be 113° ; 
The temperature of the room, 59° : 
The amount of heat passing off through the glass roof will be — 

C = 3 X 1500 (113 - 14) = ... 445, 500 units. 

The amount of heat passing off through the glass ceiling 
will be — 

C = 3 X 1000 (113 - 59) = 162, 000 units. 

The amount of heat to be developed within the double 

roof = 607, 500 units. 

Admitting that the coke-stoves employed utilize, as is almost always the 
case under similar circumstances, 90 per cent, of the heat given out by the 
fuel, and that a pound of coke produces 12,000 units of heat, it is necessary 

to burn every hour — \ — . — = 53.57 pounds of coke an hour to prevent, 

•^ .90 X 12600 ^ 

under these almost extreme conditions of cold in Paris, the glass from 

cooling the room beyond 59°. At evening-receptions, the lighting-up of 

the room requiring a burner consuming 3^ cubic feet of gas an hour to 

every three square feet of floor-area, the heat produced will always be 

more than sufficient to prevent the cooling of the interior. 

The preceding figures show why most makers of heating-apparatus 

who have undertaken to warm halls or courts covered by sky-lights have 

only very imperfectly succeeded. 

DWELLING-HOUSES. 

103. Among the appendages of dwelling-houses which most often give 
out disagreeable smells should be i)laced, in the first rank, yards, kitch- 
ens, and privies. In consequence of the draught exerted by the chimneys 
of rooms near these places, it often happens that at certain times more 
or less infectious air is drawn into the apartments. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 311 

To avoid tbis serious trouble, it is necessary, by means of proper 
arrangements, which should also be simple, to produce a regular and 
almost constant motion of air from the apartments or the halls toward 
these places, discharging from them to the exterior. This may be 
accomplished in several ways. 

104. Court-yards of dioelling houses. — Apartment-houses, especially in 
Paris, very often contain little yards, belonging to the stores on the 
ground floor, which seriously affect the healthfulness of the upper stories. 
Provision-stores, restaurants, dye-houses, drug-stores, «&c., give rise to 
disagreeable or injurious smells, which rise and annoy the occupants of 
the house and iujure the property. 

These disagreeable effects may easily be overcome in the following 
way : The yard should be covered, in whole or in part, with a glass roof, 
forming a single inclined x^lane between the ground-floor and the second 
story. In an anglf, and at the upper part of this roof, should be placed 
a chimney, extending above the upper cornice, the 'section of which 
should be calculated so that with a velocity of about three feet a second 
the air of the court-yard will be renewed once, or, better, twice an hour. 

At the lower part of this chimnej^ should be placed a gas-burner, con- 
suming only 3i cubic feet an hour. The velocity being small and the 
chimney high, about 1,800 or 2,000 cubic feet of air may be carried off 
in an hour by this chimney to every cubic foot of gas burned, and thus 
a constant purification of the yards be secured. 

When local arrangements favor, it will only be necessary, in order to 
keep up the draught, to carry a smoke-pipe up the chimney, or to start a 
fire in a coke-stove placed in it. 

105. Kitchens. — When ranges with hot-air passages, such as are now 
in general use, are employed, it will be easy when they are put up to 
place hot- water pipes around the grate, and carry them a certain distance 
up the chimney and back to the range, as in the boilers of hot-water 
heating-apparatus, which woukt secure a sufficient draught. 

lOG. Use of gashurners for the ventilation of kitchens — In kitchens 
lighted by gas, when the ranges are already put up in the usual way, 
lighting one or two gas-burners at the bottom of the chimney, to be 
kept burning only while cooking is going on, would iu most cases suflice 
to produce a draught sulficient to carry off' all smell. 

Example. — The kitchen for a single flat in Paris is considered quite 
large if 10 feet long, 13 feet wide, and 11^ feet high ; that is, with a con- 
tent of 1,490 cubic feet. 

It follows from direct experiment that, with the aid of a single gas- 
burner, consuming 1^ feet an hour, and kept burning only while the 
meals are being prepared, that is to say, at most six hours a day, there 
may be produced every hour, with sheet-iron ventilating-pipes Oi inches 
iu diameter, and 

52 39 33 20 feet high, 

the renewal of 1,780 1,475 1,407 1,257 cubic feet, 



312 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

which, added to the natural veutihition produced by the kitchen tire, 
will iully suffice to change the air of such a kitchen more than ouce an 
hour. 

The expense for a whole year for one small gas-burner, consuming 1| 
feet of gas an hour, and burning six hours a day, would be Sh cubic 
feet a day, or 3,100 cubic feet a year, which, at the rate of $1.70 a thou- 
sand feet, would cost $5.27, a very moderate expenditure for getting 
rid of a nauseous smell, which would otherwise be experienced twice a 
day. 

It may be added that the preceding results relate to metal pipes 
placed on the outside and exposed to cooling, while, in general, similar 
ventilating-pipes may be, and ought to be, made of earthen ware, and 
placed in the thickness of the walls or in the interior of buildings, 
which, exposing them less to cooling, would increase the effect ob- 
tained. In the case of large kitchens with wide fire-places, when the 
ranges are kept \nery hot, and are used almost all the time, it would be 
more economical to place a coal-grate in the lower j)art of the chimney, 
at about the top of the tire-ijlace, and this would also be the most simple 
and direct method for country-houses. 

107. Use of the lost heat from kitchen-ranges for ventilating and for 
heating baths. — Besides the advantage of securing a change of air and 
the removal of bad odors from the kitchen, the hot-water pipes men- 
tioned in §105 serve to supply baths, which may be established with 
success, as mentioned in §81 in barracks, as well as in those establish- 
ments where ])rovisious are cooked for the poor, to be distributed to 
them gratuitously or sold to them at a low price. The addition of 
hot-water baths to these useful establishments might thus be made at 
very little expense. 

An arrangement of this kind is adopted with success in the new lying- 
in house established by the administration of public assistance, rue du 
Faubourg St. Jacques, to utilize the lost heat from the stoves used for 
making plasters. 

108. The baths may be heated also by means of ordinary hot-air 
kitchen-ranges without recourse to the use of hot-water circulation, or, 
what is better, by combining the two means of utilizing the heat lost 
from the range during the time the meals are being prepared. 

109. Privies. — The necessary arrangements to be made in order to 
prevent the infection which these attachments to buildings often pro- 
duce vary with the mode of construction adopted and the nature of the 
building. 

The regulations for the construction of privy-wells are as follows : 
The down-pipes should dip at their lower end into the contents of the 
well, or better into a fixed or movable copper basin, into which it is well 
when it can be done to force water from time to time in order to wash it. 

It follows from these arrangements that the only gases which can 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



313 




ascend in these pipes arise from their internal surface or at the bottom 
of the pipes, and will not be very abundant, (Fig. 30.) 

To prevent the gases from spreading to 
the interior of the rooms, water-closets 
called English closets are usually employed 
within dwellings. In less particular houses 
and in public establishments, there is 
simply i)laced under the opening a basin 
called EogerMothe's apparatus, which tips 
and empties itself by the weight of the con- 
teuts aloue, aud then returns and closes the 
- opening. 

_. These convenient means are not always 

sufficient to prevent the introduction of bad 

smells on account of small cracks in the 

joints of the apparatus. 

In all cases it is better to keep the seat li or 2 inches above the upper 

edge of the bowl, letting the front and the two sides reach to the seat 

aud to connect this space with a ventilating-pipe extending above the 

roof. 

If this pipe can be placed near a source of regular heat, such as the 
kitchen-flue, or if hot-water pipes can be carried into it, as in the case 
of mansions heated by hot water, it would be easy to obtain a sufficiently 
powerful draught in this pipe. 

But if this method is not available, as often is the case in small dwell- 
ings, the same effect may be secured by placing in the pipe a small gas- 
burner, burning at most 1 or 1^ cubic feet an hour, and which, by the 
aid of a transom, will illuminate the closet at the same time that it puri- 
fies it. A common lamp might even be made use of, burning ^ or f 
ounce of oil an hour, (about 3L to Jj of a pint.) 

The ventilating-pipe should be about from 4G to G2 square inches in 
area, and the small burner, burning li cubic feet an hour, would, in 
most cases, secure the renewal of 1,000 cubic feet of air an hour, which 
would suffice not only to expel all the gases coming from the seat and 
its descending-pipe, but even to renew the air of the room several times 
an hour by drawing in that of the surrounding corridors and also pre- 
vent the infection of the interior of the house. 

110. Example. — Office of the Northern Railroad Company, (Fig. 31.) — If, 
instead of English water-closets, only open seats are used, or even those 
called Turkish seats, similar arrangements would produce the same 
results. 

Fig. 31 shows the plan adopted with success in the office of the 
Northern Railway Company, where there are in the five stories twenty- 
seven water-closets. The down-pipes serve for all the pairs of seats in 
each story, and are only three in number. They are 9 inches in diame- 



314 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



ter, and terminate in the movable copper water-basin =5, which form 
siphon'traps and prevent the rising of the gas. from the well. 
FIG.3I. 




All the ventilating-pipes from the seats 
are 4 inches by IC inches inside. They ter- 
minate in a large vertical collecting-pipe, 
about 10 square feet in sectional area, serv- 
ing as a ventilatiug-chimney, in which are 
placed vertical hot-water pipes, which in 
winter produce a general draught. In sum- 
mer, when the heating is interrupted, the 
draught is produced by gas-burners kept 
burning in each closet. 

Veutilation by means of hot- water circu- 
lation can evidently be kept up in summer 
by means of a separate fire for this special 



purpose, which would be more economical than the use of gas. 

The result of experiments made in February, 18G3, was that the 
amount of air removed for each seat under the action of the draught, pro- 
duced simply by an excess of 7° to 13^ of temperature in the chimney 
over that of the external air, was more than 2,200 cubic feet an hour. 

Although much greater than is generally necessary, this amount would 
not seem excessive in similar cases where, in addition to the seats, uri- 
nals, often imperfectly rinsed, are used. 

111. Arrangement adopted at Lariboislere Hospital, {Fig. 32.) — In this 
establishment, the closets on each floor contain three seats, with bowls, 




WARMING AND VENTILATION. 315 

E, of enameled cast iron, which empty into another bowl, S, forming the 
top of a down-pipe, U, of which there is one for each seat, but which, 
by a simple arrangement, might have been more ecouomicallj^ made 
common to the three floors. These down-pipes carry the contents to a 
large hemispherical basin, O, of cast iron, always filled with water, iu 
which their ends dip so as to prevent the gas from the well at the bot- 
tom from rising through the pipes. The contents run off from the basin 
O through the space X in the well, which is closed air-tight, and which, 
according to the regulations, should be provided with a pipe for the es- 
caj)e of gas to the top of the building. 

It follows from this arrangement that the only gases which can rise 
to the top of the down-pipes in the closets are those which are formed 
in the pipes. To prevent them from entering into the closets, and at 
the same time to renew the air in the latter, M. L. Duvoir has connected 
each of the under-bowls S with a pipe, T, leading to a ventilating-chim- 
ney common to all the closets. 

Tlie draught exerted by this pipe V, increased by the use of hot-water 
pipes or by other means, not only removes the gas developed in the 
down-pipe, but it carries oft' from the closets, through the hole in the 
seat, an amount of air equal to 1,200 cubic feet or more an hour to each 
seat. 

Arrangements similar to the preceding have been applied with suc- 
cess in privies with Turkish seats in budding b of the Vincennes Hos- 
pital. 

Sinks. 

112. When sinks, intended to receive kitchen-slops, give out a bad 
smell in spite of the precautionary measures jirescribed by the sewer- 
regukitions, or when these regulations are not or cannot be observed, 
this unpleasantness may be removed by means similar to those just 
mentioned. 

DINING-ROOMS. 

113. In these rooms, where the steam from the dishes and the heat 
from numerous lights, added to that produced by the people present, 
cause a temperature often insupportable, it is easy to apply the rules 
previously given. 

It will usually sufiice if the air be renewed four or five times an hour, 
producing the draught near the floor, and making use, as will often be very 
easy, of the heat from the wall-brackets to give it the required force. 

If the room is brilliantly lighted by many chandeliers placed over the 
tables, an escape should be provided for the hot gases arising from the 
combustion by openings in or near the ceiling. 

The openings for the admission of fresh air should be placed below the 
former, but removed as far as possible from the people. 

It will then be found, as in the case of night drawing-schools, that 
the general rules will have to be modified. 



316 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

As examples, chosen among those which apparently offer the greatest 
difficulties, I select the diuing-rooms of the Hotel de Ville, Paris. 

114. State dining-room. — This immense room has the following dimen- 
sions: length, 150 feet; breadth, 34 feet; height, 38 feet ; cubical con- 
tent, 200,000 cubic feet ; floor-surface, 5,300 square feet. There are 
usually at dinner there 180 persons at one table 152 feet long by 13 feet 
wide, which gives a contour of 2 x (152 -f 13) = 330 feet, and allows 
each guest but 1.8 feet of space. 

At dinners, the number of waiters cannot be less than GO. There are 
therefore 240 persons in the room. 

The cubical space to each person is then — 

200000 ^^^ ,■ -. ^ 
-^riTT" = 833 cubic leet. 
240 

The amount of floor-surface to each person is — 
!,... = 22 square feet. 

Under these conditions, it is illuminated by — 

26 chandeliers, each containing 100 candles 2, 600 

Table-candelabra of 6 or 7 candles each 592 

Total number of candles 3, 192 

At the dinner given by the city to the Emperor on the occasion of his 

marriage, there were 420 persons at table. The number of waiters was 

at least 100; the cubical space for each person was then — 

200000 oo. If. 

—- = 384 cubic feet, 

520 ' 

and the floor-surface to each person — 

5300 

-^^jTT = 10 square feet. 

The room was lighted, on this occasion, by 26 chandeliers of 100 

candles each 2, 600 

Table-candelabra 592 

Total 3, 192 

Admitting that each candle develops 476 units of heat, the same as 
a person, the total number of units of heat developed in an hour, on 
that occasion, would be — 

(520 + 3192) X 476 = 1,766,912 units. 
Supposing that air, at a temperature of 59°, had been admitted at a 
height of 20 or 26 feet, and that this air, after its temperature had been 
raised to 95°, had escaped through openings in the ceiling, every cubic 
foot of air introduced would have carried off" — 

.0766 X 36 X .237 = .6536 unit. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 317 

It would then have been necessary to admit into and withdraw from 

the room every hour the enormous amount of — 

170(501*2 
' .^.. = 2,703,000 cubic feet of air, 

or 751 cubic feet a second, which corresponds to a complete renewal of 
the air of the room effected — 

2703000 ,„.^ ^. , 

.^■■.. ■■ ■ = 13.o2 times an hour. 

By means of chimneys extending to the roof, a velocity of discharge 
equal to at least 7 feet a second could have been obtained, and their 
sectional area and that of the openings into them would have to be 114 
square feet. Supposing five of the latter to be placed in the ceiling, 
each would require to be 23 square feet in area. 

However great the amount of air to be removed and the areas of flues 
may seem, there need be no serious difficulty in obtaining them. 

115. Throne-room. — This room has the following dimensions: length, 
94 feet; breadth, '60 feet; height, 20 feet; cubical capacity, 88,000 cubic 
feet; floor-surface, 3,380 square feet. It accommodates 95 guests at a 
table 77 feet long by ]3 feet wide, having, therefore, a circumference of 
180 feet, which gives each guest but 1.9 feet of space. 

The number of servants is about 25, There are then 120 persons in 
the room. 

The cubical space to each person is — 

88000 noo r- f ^ 
-YTwj- = 733 cubic feet. 

The floor surface to each person is — 

3380 

-TTjTT = 28 square feet. 

Under these circumstances, it is lighted up by — 

12 chandeliers of 96 candles 1,152 

4 candelabra of 25 candles 100 

On the table 370 

Total 1,022 

or, 17 candles to a guest. 

Allowing, as before, that a candle gives out 47G units of heat an hour, 
the same as a person, the total number of units of heat given out an 
hour would be — 

(120+1022) X 470 = 829, 192 units. 

Supposing that the air had been introduced at a height of 20 feet, and 
at a temperature of 59°, and that this air, after having become heated 
to 95°, had escaped through openings in the ceiling, every cubic foot of 
air introduced would have carried away, as in the preceding case, .6536 
unit. 



318 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

It would then be necessary to admit into, and discharge from, the 
room every hour the amount ot^ — 

;.:!■,.. =1,268,000 cubic feet, 

or 352 cubic feet a second, which corresponds to a complete renewal of 
the air of the room effected 14.27 times an hour. If the velocity of dis- 
charge reaches GJ feet a second, the total sectional area of the openings 
should be 54 square feet. 

The amount, 1,268,000 cubic feet, is about that which can easily be 
withdrawn from the lecture-rooms of the Conservatory, and introduced 
there at a mean height of less than 20 feet without inconvenience to 
the audience. 

116. Dining-room. — This room has the following dimensions : length, 
49 feet ; breadth, 23 feet ; height, 25 feet ; cubical capacity, 28,000 cubic 
feet ; floor-surface, 1,120 square feet. 

It accommodates 54 guests at a table 42 feet long by 10 feet wide, hav- 
ing therefore a circumference of 104 feet, and giving to each guest but 2 
feet of table-space. 

The number of servants is about 14. There are then 68 persons in 
the room. 

The cubical space for each person is — 

28000 ._^ T f . 
P^ =410 cubic feet. 

The floor-surface to each person is — 

1120 
..^ =16 square feet. 

It is lit up by — 

1 chandelier -. 60 candles, 

14 chandeliers of 20 candles each 280 candles. 

Portable candelabras 170 candles. 

Total 510 candles, 

or 9.44 candles to a guest. 

Admitting the same bases of calculation as before, the total number of 
units of heat developed in an hour by the people and the candles will be 

(68+510) X 476=275,128 units, 
and the amount of air to be admitted and withdrawn every hour would 
be— 

' ..7. =421,000 cubic feet, 

or 117 cubic feet a second, which corresponds to a complete renewal of 
the air of the room effected 15.23 times an hour. 

The amount, 421,000 cubic feet, is less than t-hat which is constantly 
admitted into and withdrawn from the small lecture-room at the Con- 
servatory. 

Under the arrangements at present in use, it is not uncommon to find 
at the close of a meal a temperature of S6^ without any change of air, 



WAEMING AND VENTILATION. 319 

wliich is very unpleasant, and the supposition that it will be 1)5° near 
the ceiliug is probably below the truth. 

The three precediug examples present extreme difficulties ; and it is 
besides evident that if the proportions referred to be adopted, it would 
be necessary to reserve means of regulating and of moderating, accord- 
ing to circumstances, the amounts of air to be admitted and carried off. 
For the winter season, the latter should be taken from places near the 
rooms where a suitable temperature can be maintained. 

KECEPTION-ROOMS. 

117. What has already been said in regard to dining-rooms applies 
equally to large reception-rooms, where many lights serve to a great 
extent to heat and vitiate the air. 

There, as in evening drawing-schools, it will not be sufficient merely 
to produce a change of air proportioned to the number of persons pres- 
ent; it is necessary at the same time to carry off the hot gases of com- 
bustion through the ceiling under the influence of the draught which 
they produce, and to establish at the same time if possible an outward 
draught near the floor, which will draw to it a part of the fresh air. The 
fresh air should be introduced at a considerable height, and as far as 
possible from the people in the room. 

In such cases, it will be advisable to secure the complete renewal of 
the air six or eight times an hour. 

Observations made at the school in the Rue des Petits-Hotels having 
shown that, with an external temperature of 50° and an internal tem- 
perature of 79^, there will be produced from free openings, disconnected 
from any chimney, a velocity of about 3 feet a second, the surfaces of 
the openings to be made above may be calculated by assuming that 
75 per cent, of the amount of air to be removed escapes through these 
openings; and that the balance, or 25 percent., will be drawn off at 
the bottom, with a velocity also equal to at least 3 feet a second. 

118. Application to the Hall of MarshaU in the Tuileries. — This recep- 
tion-room is 03 feet long, 53 feet wide, having therefore 3,340 square 
feet of floor-surface, and 48 feet in mean height, the cubic content 
being about 160,000 cubic feet. It accommodates at most six hundred 
people at balls, or about one person to every 5 square feet. 

It is lit up on reception-days b y 548 candles and by 166 lamps, 
(equivalent to 498 candles,) which would develop together about 500,000 
units of heat an hour.* 

The illumination corresponds then to — 

-^jTTTT- =^ 1.74 candles to an individual. 

If it is desired that the air be renewed in this hall six tinies, it will be 
necessary to admit and discharge — 

6 X 160,000 = 960,000 cubic feet an hour, 

* £tudes 8ur la ventilation, 2^ vol., pp. 301-302. 



320 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

of which .75x900,000 = 720,000 cubic feet an hour, or 200 cubic feet 
a secoud, will be carried ofi" at the ceiling, and .25x060,000 = 240,000 
cubic feet an hour, or G7 cubic feet a second, by the openiugs near the 
floor. As the velocity of discharge near the ceiling may be as high as 3 
feet a second, the openings to be made there — as far as possible directly 
above the main chandelier — should have — 

-^- = 67 square feet of clear passageway, 

deduction being made for solid parts ; and the velocity of draught near 
the floor beiug also 3 feet a second, the corresponding openings should 
have a clear area of — 

Y = 22 square feet. 

The grating in nse has an area of but 116 square feet of total sur- 
face, including solid portions, and scarcely presents 43 square feet of 
clear passage. 

Above theopenings in the ceiling should be placed external ventilators, 
having together the same clear area, which will increase the velocity of 
discharge. 

In regard to the ventilating openings at the floor-level, they may easily 
be made around the contour of the rooms under the steps on which the 
seats are placed ; and their pipes should be carried in the piers of the 
vaults of the lower vestibule to the cellar, where they should join the col- 
lectiug passages terminating in a general ventilating-chimnej', at the 
bottom of which a coal fire or a number of gas-burners should be kept 
burning. 

The dimensions of these pipes should be calculated by the general 
rules previously given. If there are serious difficulties in the way of 
producing this down-draught, an up-draught may be used, produced by the 
aid of gas-burners placed in vertical flues made in the thickness of the 
walls. 

119. Introduction of air. — But it is not sufficient merely to secure the 
discharge of the foul air; it is necessary to provide for the admission of 
an equal amount of fresh air at a proper temperature. 

This air, which in winter should be warmed to a temperature of about 
68°, may be admitted through an interjoist in the balcony, which is 20 
feet above the floor. It should flow horizontally below the chandeliers, 
above and away from the occupants, and its horizontal velocity of ad- 
mission may, without inconvenience, be 3 feet a second. Its volume 
being 954,000 cubic feet an hour, or 265 cubic feet a second, the total 
sectional area of the interjoist and of the conducting passages should 
be 81 square feet. 

The length around the inner edge of the balcony being about 200 feet, 
it will suffice to give the openings — 

81 

^Twj = .4 foot of clear height. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 321 

but on account of the ornaments which break up the passage it will be 
necessary to make them 10 inches either in height or in developed profile. 

These arrangements will insure the renewal of 954,000 cubic feet of 
air an hour, or 1,590 cubic feet to each person, if there are 000 present^ 
suflBcient in all seasons to secure the healthful condition of the room 
and to moderate its temperature ; but it is not necessai-y that they be 
isolated and confined to one of the reception rooms of the palace. It 
■will be equally necessary to adopt similar arrangements for the two 
adjoining rooms, which often contain many persons, and also for the large 
gallery, frequently used as a ball room. It may not be unnecessary to 
add that for evening parties the two large fire-places which are in the 
grand gallery may, by means of gas-burners placed within them, serve 
as ventilating-chimneys ; and if there is any difficulty in cutting in the 
side- walls descending flues leading to the basement, ascending flues may 
be made, separate, or communicating with a single ventilator placed in 
the roof over each room. 

The fresh air should enter above the cornice, and in a horizontal direc- 
tion. 

Each of the principal saloons in the palace should thus have its own 
ventilators provided with regulating-valves ; they should be independent 
of the others, and this will prevent the unpleasant currents which would 
otherwise arise as the guests take their departure. 

HALLS OF ASSEMBLY AND LECTURE-ROOMS. 

120. These places of temporary resort, where there is often more than 
one person to every square foot of floor-surface, should be ventilated 
at the rate of 1,000 cubic feet of air an hour to each person. 

The arrangements which I have adopted for the main lecture-hall of 
the Conservatory of Arts and Trades, and of which the satisfactory re- 
sults have been seen every day for five years, appear to me worthy of 
imitation. 

The foul air is drawn off through openings in the risers behind the 
feet of the auditors, and their total clear area for the passage of the air 
— deduction being made for the solid portions of the grating, if there 
are any — should be calculated so that the air will only attain a velocity 
of 28 or 30 inches a second. This surface also should be distributed as 
uniformly as possible among the steps. 

The basement under the lecture-room, kept as clear as possible, should 
communicate with a ventilatiug-gallery, placed underground or at the 
-ground-floor level if possible, the sectional area of which should be 
calculated so that the velocity of the air shall not be greater than 4 
feet a second. 

This gallery should terminate in a ventilating-chimney, the mean sec- 
tion of which should be determined on the condition that the velocity 
of the air shall reach 5 or 7 feet a second in order to secure the perma- 
nence of the current. 
21 s 



322 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

At tlie foot of this chimney, a grate, separated from the walls and 
placed about 3 feet above the ground, should contain a coal-fire, which 
will give to the draught the necessary strength. Experiments show 
that with proportions about equal to those that have been mentioned) 
140,000 to 1GO,000 cubic feet of air an hour can be carried oif from a 
well-lilled lecture-room to every pound of coal burned. On the preced- 
ing data, the number of pounds of coal to be burned may be calculated 
from the number of persons in attendance, allowing to each 1,000 cubic 
feet of air an hour, and the surface of the grate may be determined on 
the condition that each square foot is to consume 4 pounds an hour, 
which corresponds to a slow fire. 

Doors and valves should be placed iu this gallery to check the motion 
of the air as required. 

If in the lecture-room substances that give off bad smells are produced, 
ventilating-pipes should be arranged under the furnaces, or under the 
table, which should be 2^ or 3 square feet in sectional area, and pro- 
longed, if desired, directly to the chimney instead of terminating in the 
gallery. The openings of these pipes in the furnace or in the table should 
be closed whenever it is not necessary to use them. 

121. Admission of fresh air. — Generally it will be well, when the con- 
struction permits, to make the air flow in through the roof over the lec- 
ture-room, which should in that case be close and ceiled, or in an inter- 
joist, whence it will descend into the room through openings uniformly 
spread over the surface of the ceiling. 

When this arrangement can be adopted, the clear surface of the open- 
ings should be calculated on the condition that the air should pass 
through them with a velocity of about 20 inches a second. 

In the main lecture-room of the Conservatory, where the amount of 
air admitted rarely exceeds 630,000 cubic feet an hour, or 177 cubic feet 
a second, this condition would require a clear area for the fresh-air 
openings of 108 square feet. They actually have an area of 129 square 
feet. 

If it becomes necessary to admit the fresh air through one or more of 
the walls of the room, opposite walls should be preferred, and the open- 
ings shoidd be placed as far as possible from the audience, fitting guides 
to them to force the air to follow the flat or curved surface of the ceiling, 
so that its entering velocity, which may then be as great as 40 inches a 
second, may" be gradually reduced before it reaches the audience. The 
air brought in should have in winter a temperature lower by 4 degrees 
than that which is to be maintained in the room, which should be about 
6SO. 

For this purpose, the warm air from the heating-apparatus should be 
mixed in a separate chamber with the cold air taken from outside 
through a convenient opening. The action of the draught will serve to 
draw in this cold air, which should be made to flow into the mixing- 
chamber above the warm air. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 323 

Valves should be arranged to regulate the amounts of hot and cold 
air so as to give a proper temperature to the mixture. 

When the lecture-room is not occupied, it will be well to close all the 
communications with the ventilating-chimuey, the mixing-chamber, and 
the fresh-air openings, in order to avoid reversed di;aughts which would 
cool the interior. 

The intermittent use and heating of lecture-rooms causes a much 
greater expense for fuel than if they were constantly occupied. 

These places also being only ventilated when they are in use, it is 
well to reserve means of warming through special openings different 
from those which are used in connection with ventilation, the openings 
to be afterward closed. 

The mean results for heating and ventilating lecture-rooms arranged 
similarly to those in the conservatory will be as follows : 

C" For heating — to 1,000 cubic feet con- 
Consumption of coal ] tent 2-2^ lbs. 

in 12 hours. 1 For ventilation — to 1,000 cubic feet 

I of air renewed |-1 lb- 

Large reception-rooms, such as those of legislative halls, should be 
warmed and ventilated upon the same principles. 

In all cases, it should be remembered that staircases, vestibules, &c., 
which give access to these jjlaces with strong ventilating-draughts, should 
be warmed without being ventilated, and kept at a temperature a little 
above that of the main room, so that the occasional opening of doors 
will only admit warm air, which would not be unpleasant. 

Experiment has shown at the Conservatory that, when these places 
are thus heated and kept closed, they form a sort of air-lock, and the 
velocity with which the air enters through the doors, which being 
opened put them in communication with the interior of the lecture- 
room, is barely one foot a second, and consequently almost insensible, 
especially if the temperature of the air is at least equal to that in the 
main room. 

THEATERS. 

122. A theater is composed of three principal parts — 

1. The stage and its accessories. 

2. The auditorium, waiting-rooms, and dependencies. 

3. The vestibules, staircases, and business-offices. 

The stage, the flies, and the corridors which lead to the dressing-rooms 
and green room should be kept at a temperature of 04° to 08° in winter. 
Generally, the latter places will not require to be ventilated, as they con- 
tain but a small number of people, occupying a large space. Still, as 
the green-room and the rooms in which the chorus rehearses often con- 
tain a large number of artists, it may be necessary in certain cases to 
ventilate them. The upper portions of the stage are often raised to a 
high temperature on account of the heat produced by the lights, by the 



324 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

fire in spectacles, &c., which requires that special precautions be taken 
to air them and to remove the hot gases. 

The auditorium aud the waiting-rooms are the parts in which it is especi- 
ally desirable to maintain salubrity, change of air, and a moderate tem- 
perature. The amount of air to be changed an hour to each sjjectator 
should be 1,400 cubic feet, and it is well to reserve means of increasing 
it to 2,100 cubic feet during the summer. 

The heating may be effected either by means of hot-air heaters with 
sufficiently large mixiug-chambers, as has been previously mentioned, or 
by hot-water apparatus, of which the first cost need not be greater than 
the preceding, while it will be very easy to regulate. 

123. Air-supply. — The fresh air should be taken, if possible, from the 
neighboring gardens, far from dwelling-houses, or from court-yards, or 
by special chimneys, drawing it from the top of the edifice. Care should 
be taken that these chimneys should be as far as possible from the 
ventilating-chimneys, and that their tops be not as high as the ventilat- 
ing chimneys, in order that they may not reverse the draught. 

If fresh air be introduced by subterranean passages, the walls, the 
vaults, and the floor of these passages should be made of hydraulic 
masonry, perfectly tight, and nothing should be done to them by the 
custodians of the building, except to examine their state of cleanliness. 

124. Admission of air. — The air should be carried into the auditorium : 

1. By interjoists, formed between the floor of one gallery and the 
ceiling of that below ; the air should issue horizontally from the whole 
circumference of the interjoists, which should be at least 5 or 6 inches 
in clear height. 

It may be assumed that the horizontal velocity with which it flows 
out will be 3 feet a second ; but it is necessary to take care that the 
openings through the gratings which terminate the interjoist-spaces 
have at least a surftice corresponding to this velocity, and that none of 
these openings be placed horizontally above the spectators of the lower 
tier of seats. 

2. By openings arranged at the height of about 10 feet in the walls 
separating the stage from the auditorium ; and there may also be formed 
there a chamber for mixing the warm air from the heaters with the cold 
air from outdoors. 

3. By auxiliary pipes, intended especially for summer-ventilation, 
arranged, if possible, under the floors of the corridors of each gallery. 
They should take air from outdoors, and their section should be cal- 
culated, so that the velocity of passage shall not exceed 2 feet or 28 
inches a second. All these pipes should be supplied with valves to 
close them when required in cold weather. 

125. Necessary precautions.— Ventilation, by drawing out the foul air, 
necessarily causing the entrance of fresh air, it is necessary to see that 
the opening of doors does not occasion unpleasant currents. For 
this purpose, corridors, passage-ways, and staircases should be heated in 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 325 

winter to a temperature of about 68°. The doors of adjoining boxes 
being usually contiguous, it will be well to place a hot-air opening in 
tlie corridors before each pair of doors, so that during the momentary 
opening of one of these doors warm air may enter into the correspond- 
ing box. The same plan may be carried out by each door in the pas- 
sage-way ; but it is necessary that these hot-air openings be placed in 
vertical planes, and not at the floor-level. The passage-ways should 
have two doors opening outward and inward, and between them should 
be a hot-air opening. 

126. Removal of foul air. — This air should be drawn out of the room 
by veutilating-openings at the back of the boxes or galleries, or in the 
risers of the amphitheater. The clear surface of these openings should 
be calculated on the condition that the air shall enter with a velocity of 
28 or 30 inches a second. 

Each box or each pair of adjoining boxes of the same tier should have 
a special ventilating-pipe. The section of these pipes should be calcu- 
lated on the condition that the air drawn out should have a velocity of 
3 feet a second. For the first, second, and third galleries, these pipes 
should be carried to the ventilator above the chandelier. 

For the parquet, the orchestra, and the lower boxes, and, if possible, for 
the first gallery, the foul-air pipes should descend. In the parquet and 
the orchestra, gratings arranged around the whole lower circumference 
of the partitions, together with other openings placed on top or on the 
sides of pipes carried along by the feet of the seats, will serve to direct 
the foul air in an interjoist placed under the floor. This interjoist, made 
high enough to be cleaned, should be divided in large theaters into two 
parts by a longitudinal division in the mean plane of the edifice. 

Each of these parts should communicate with a separate veutilating- 
chimney, of which the opening should be either in the basement or at 
the height of the floor of the passage-ways in the parquet. 

In no case should the ventilating-openings be placed at the floor-level, 
as has nevertheless been done at the Lyric Theater. 

The foul air drawn ofl' from the lower boxes and the first gallery 
should likewise be carried underneath by means of special pipes, after- 
w^ard united in collecting-pipes terminating at the base of the chimneys 
just referred to. 

The dimensions of these pipes should be determined on the condition 
that the velocity in them should be from 3 to 4 feet a second. 

In small theaters, a single chimney will usually suffice for all the gal- 
leries. The calculation of the dimensions to be given to the foul-air 
openings should be made for each gallery separately, from the corre- 
sponding number of spectators. 

The cast-iron smoke-pipes of the heaters should be carried into the 
ventilating-chimneys, keeping them separate throughout their whole 
height ; and at the lower part of the chimney a grate should be placed, 
to be used whenever required, to increase the draught, especially in sum- 



326 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

mer. It would not be prudent, even in winter, to count upon the heat 
transmitted by the smoke-pipe to produce a sufficiently powerful draught. 

The sectional area of the chimney should be calculated so that the 
mean velocity in it may be 5J or 6 feet a second. 

They should open, when possible, in a cupola placed above the center 
of the hall, which should also receive all the ventilating-pipes of the 
upper stories. 

A main veutilating-chimney should be constructed of brick and not 
of metal, abov^e this cupola, the latter to be as low as possible, while 
the chimney should be made as high as the nature of the building will 
permit, but at least 20 or 25 feet. 

The sectional area of this chimney should be calculated on the con- 
dition that the mean velocity of the draught in it should be about 6^ 
feet a second. 

127. Utilization of the heat given out hy the lights. — In addition to the 
pipes for carrying oif foul air, the gases produced by the burners of tbe 
main chandelier or the other chandeliers suspended from the ceiling 
should also be carried into the cupola. The pipes intended to carry the 
gases there should be made as small as possible in order not to change 
the direction of the main draught in the vicinity of these places. 

The diameter of the ventilating-pipe above a chandelier placed near 
the ceiling and supplied with a metal or glass reflector should be calcu- 
lated under the condition that it shall only remove 150 cubic feet of air 
an hour with the velocity of 13 feet a second to a cubic foot of gas con- 
sumed by the chandelier. 

The single burners in the boxes and corridors should take the air 
necessary to support the combustion in the interior of the boxes or 
from the adjoining ventilating-pipes. It will suffice to make their ven- 
tilating-pipes ^ or f inch in diameter. 

If, as is most probable, the plan of lighting through a glass ceiliug, 
tried at the Theatre du Cirque and the Lyric Theater, be not adopted, 
it will be advisable to place a circle of gas-jets at the base of the venti- 
lating-chimney, to be used only to increase the draught in summer, 
when the elevation of the temperature of the external air tends to 
reduce it. It may be assumed that uuder siuiilar conditions each cubic 
foot of gas consumed will carry off about 800 cubic feet of air. 

A valve should be placed at the foot of the chimney to moderate its 
draught, and particularly to stop the draught after the close of the play, 
to prevent useless loss of heat and the entrance of cold air during the 
night. 

128. Ventilation of the stage. — For theaters where great quantities of 
smoke are frequently produced duri.ng sham fights, grand illuminations, 
displays of lire-works, &c., it is well to keep up a strong draught in the 
upper part of the stage, in order to prevent the gases from being drawn 
into the auditorium by the draught kept up there, as happened at the 
Chatelet Theater, where these precautions were not taken. Further- 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 327 

more, in order ttat this stage-veiitilation may not interfere with that of 
the body of the house, it is necessary to connect the two systems with 
each other. 

For this purpose, a chimney or an auxiliary ventilating-flue should be 
made above the stage and joined with the main chimney, the draught 
of which should be increased by means of gas-jets lighted at the propel 
time, a little while before the smoke is produced. 

129. Precautions to be taken to prevent re-entry of the external air on the 
stage. — The introduction of external cold air on the stage should also be 
avoided, in order that currents from the stage to the hall may not be 
produced, which would be disagreeable both ro the actors and to the 
audience. This result has taken place at the Theatre du Cirque, where 
large openings in direct communication with a court and public way 
have not been closed. 

130. Lighting -a2Jparatiis for the auditorium. — Without wishing to spec- 
ify here the arrangements to be adopted for lighting theaters, we will 
confine ourselves to stating that glass ceilings, which require to 
be ornamented with colored designs, occasion a considerable loss of 
light, while they produce in the room an amount of heat very unpleasant 
for the spectators in the upper tiers, and which is also very expensive 
for the directors, who are naturally led unduly to restrict the number 
of gas-jets, thus rendering useless the expense gone to in introducing 
this method of illumination. Although this consumption, even when 
thus restricted, assists the removal of foul air, the amount carried off 
is seldom more than 450 cubic feet to a cubic foot of gas burned, while 
with suitable arrangements the amount of GOOtoSOOcubic feetof airmight 
be carried off to every cubic foot of gas. 

131. Arrangements to hemade to secure and regulate the amount of warmth 
and ventilation. — Warmtti and ventilation can only be properly secured 
by an attentive observation of atmospheric conditions and of the num- 
ber of spectators, and by prompt application of the proper means. There 
is, in fact, no difficulty in the arrangement or the management of the 
apparatus; but it is necessary to take care, and not to trust to ordinary 
firemen, nor even to the managers of theaters, always interested iu 
using as little coal and gas as possible. 

It is then indispensable to confide this trust to special agents, respon- 
sible directly for the authority and the regularity of the service, and 
obliged to make daily reports. Without such control, independent of 
theatrical managers, the best apparatus may give imperfect results or 
even fail entirely. 

132. Application. — The preceding rules have been adopted, after long 
discussion and many experiments,* to serve as bases for the plans to 
be adopted at the Lyric Theater and the Chatelet Theater. The city 

* The commission charged with the investigatiou of the question and the examina- 
tion of projects was composed of Dumas, member of the Institute, president ; Chais- 
d'Est-Ange, Pelouso, Rayer, Gilbert, Caristie, Baltard, General Morin, members of the 
Institute; Grassi, chemist. 



328 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

government has scarcely any control over the latter, and but little over 
the former. Still, as the results obtained at the Lyric Theater have, in 
the main, been somewhat satisfactory when the apparatus has been 
properly managed, I will describe this first application, in spite of its 
imperfections. 

The auditorium, intended to accommodate 1,700 spectators, has really 
but 1,472 seats, distributed as follows : 

Orchestra, parquet, and lower boxes 440 

First tier , 256 

Second tier 302 

Third tier 178 

Fourth tier 296 1, 032 

1, 472 

The amount of air to be renewed for each spectator had been limited 
to 1,060 feet an hour, which, with the above number of places, corre- 
sponded to a total volume of 1,560,000 cubic feet an hour. The condi- 
tions imposed upon the contractor, based on the hypothesis of 1,700 
spectators, would requii'e a renewal of 1,800,000 cubic feet of air an hour. 

133. External-air supply. — The air-supply was taken in St. Jacques 
Square from a circular well 12 feet in diameter, which, by a subterranean 
passage, at first circular, 11 feet in diameter, and afterward of variable 
form, but of the same sectional area, carried it to the subbasement of 
the building, and spread it over the whole extent occupied by the heat- 
ers and the air-chambers. The sectional area of the passage-way was 
therefore but 98 square feet; and experiment (December 9, 1862*) hav- 
ing shown that the velocity in it was as much as 6 feet a second, the 
volume of fresh air introduced by this gallery was that day 1,090,000 
cubic feet. It was only deemed necessary to introduce 1,060,000 cubic 
feet, since the unavoidable admission of air through the doors, the pas- 
sages, and the stage would easily and without inconvenience furnish the 
balance, as has been found to be the case. It would, nevertheless, be. 
more prudent in such cases to calculate the dimensions of the fresh-air 
trunk to furnish the entire amount. 

134. Alteration of the adopted plans. — But a little while after the open- 
ing or the lease of the theater to the manager, the external freshair pas- 
sage was closed, and even the pit in St. Jacques Square covered with ivy. 
Thus the introduction of air by these passages, as well as by the pipes 
leading to the inteijoists of the boxes, is almost entirely jjreveuted, 
"while the outward draught is as strong as ever. It therefore follows that, 
to replace the air carried off, cold air enters through the halls, passages, 
&c., which is very unpleasant for the spectators, and which the public 
attribute to the general arrangements adopted, while they are only the 
result of want of care and of the exercise of authority. 

* £tude8 sur la ventilation, vol. 2. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 329 

lu spite of the influence which these changes, and others equally seri- 
ous, in part of the apparatus have had on their operation, I will describe 
the results which have been obtained by continuous service when the 
ventilation has been regularly kept up. 

135. Ground floor. — Part of the air supplied by the air-trunks passes 
into two heaters i^laced under the main hall ; the rest flows into two mix- 
ing-chambers, having together a capacity of 6,500 cubic feet. The two 
heaters have a sectional area of 97 square feet, and the amount of warm 
air which they can supply to the mixing-chamber being at a maximum 
883,000 cubic feet an hour, or 245 feet a second, this corresponds to a 
velocity of 2^ feet a second. 

From the air-chamber, and from each of its compartments, branch off 
six pipes, of which — 

Two are intended to supply fresh air to the difi'erent galleries. 

Two were to supply air entering the room by the floor of the stage, 
concentric with the foot-lights. This method of introduction had to be 
abandoned, as it was unpleasant to the musicians. 

Two were to carry air in vertical pipes placed by the stage-opening 
against the wall which separates it from the auditorium. 

There are, in addition, four heaters lor warming the vestibules, the 
staircases, waiting-rooms, dressing-rooms, &c. 

136. Removal of foul air. — In the orchestra and parquet, the air is 
drawn off under the floor by 101 openings, having altogether a clear 
area of about 65 square feet. The passage under the floor, which should 
have had a clear area of 118 square feet, has been reduced to 40 square 
feet. 

The air drawn off at this height, carried by two pipes to the right and 
left, is drawn to two ventilating-chimneys, which contain the smoke- 
pipes of the heaters of the hall, and may also, when necessary, be heated 
by a small special fire. 

Direct experiments, made during five consecutive evenings in May, 
1863, with external temperatures comprised between 56° and 73°, have 
shown that a mean consumption of 441 pounds of coal, costing about 
$2 for each performance, effects the removal of about 600,000 cubic feet 
of air an hour, which corresponds to about 1,400 cubic feet to a seat. 
By means of this abundant ventilation, the temperature of the orchestra, 
and parquet may be maiutained within proper limits. 

But the managers of the theater do not use the two ventilating-chim- 
neys ; and if they have not been closed, instead of promoting the removal 
of foul air, they may cause the entrance of cold air, in consequence of a 
reversal of the direction of the motion of the air caused by the greater 
power of the upper draught. 

For the first, second, third, and fourth galleries, the foul air is carried 
out at the floor of the galleries or through the steps of the amphitheater, 
as was reuiarked in § 120 ; and the observations made in May, 1863, 
have shown that the amount of foul air extracted at the base of the 



330 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 



cupola was as much as 1,301,000 cubic feet for 736 places, equal to 1,818 
cubic feet to a place. For the whole audience-room, coutaiuiug 1,472 
places, the total amount of air removed on an average during the five 
evenings in May, 18G3, when the observations were made, was as much 
as 1,970,000 cubic feet, or 1,338 cubic feet instead of 1,060, which was 
all demanded. The total amount was even raised on December 3, 1862, 
to 2,121,000 cubic feet an hour. 

137. Maintenance of equality of temperature in the different galleries. — 
I have given in my investigations in regard to ventilation* the results 
of experiments which have been made under very different temperatures, 
and which have shown that the results obtained have exceeded what 
was required as to the amount of air removed from the room at the 
different galleries. The results relative to keeping up the temperature 
have not been less satisfactory. In fact, by means of this regular ven- 
tilation, the temperature at the different galleries has been maintained 
at a very remarkable state of uniformity, as shown by the following 
results for the first and fourth galleries, which alone will be cited here: 



Date. 



May 24, 1863 
May 25, 1803 
May 26, 1863 
May 27, 1863 
May 28, 1863 
May 29, 1803 
May 30, 1863 



sa 



o Y. 
52.25 
55.85 
55.85 
59.90 
62. 60 
67.10 
69. 80 



l3 

■*^ p 6 

oo cS ^ 
t- aj -' 



o Y. 
69.10 
71.60 
71.60 
75.02 
75. 92 
76.10 
78. 26 









o F. 

69.80 

74.66 

72.05 

75.02 

76.64 

77. 36 

80.06 



It is well to repeat that in a place strongly ventilated a temperature 
of 75° does not feel unpleasant, and that if the direct external air- 
openings required for the summer season have been made it will be easy, 
if required, to obtain a still smaller difference between the external and 
internal temperatures. 

At the old Opera, the Italian Theater, and most of the unveutilated 
theaters, it is not unusual to observe temperatures of 95<^ and 105°. 

138. Temperature on the stage. — When the heaters designed to warm the 
stage are well managed, a proper degree of temperature may always be 
maintained there. Thus, in November, 1863, with an external temper- 
ature of 39°, was obtained — 

o Y. 

On the stage - GO. 02 

In the orchestra-stalls 70. 88 

la the gallery-boxes, (average) 72. 32 

In the amphitheater, (fourth gallery) 73. 94 

*Eludes sur la Ventilation, vol. 2. 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. 331 

In May, with external temperatures of from 64^ to 68° at 7 o'clock, and 
from 550 to 570 at midnight, the temperature on the stage was on an 
average 71° to 73^. 

139. Yolume of air carried off at thecupola toacuhicfoot of gas burned. — 
During the experiments of May, 18G3, the volume of gas burned an hour 
in the main room was on an average 2,940 cubic feet, and the volume of 
air was 1,361,000 cubic feet, which corresponds to 402.5 cubic feet of air 
carried off by a cubic foot of gas consumed. But in the above-men- 
tioned consumption is included that of a large number of burners which 
had no direct influence on the ventilation. A removal of 600 to 800 
cubic feet of air to a cubic foot of gas directly consumed to produce it 
may be calculated upon when proper arrangements are made. 

140. Consequences of the preceding facts. — The results of direct experi- 
ment made in different seasons show that the arrangements adopted 
for warming and ventilating the Lyric Theater are capable of producing 
satisfactory results. The same is true of the Gaites. 

It is a pity to see the public, in consequence of the senseless parsi- 
mony of the manager of a theater, deprived of the advantages which 
the administration of the city of Paris has, at considerable expense, 
undertaken to secure them. 

STABLES AND COW-HOUSES. 

141. The capacity of stables should be 1,800 cubic feet to each animal ; 
this was the proportion adopted in 1841 by the war-minister for cavalry- 
stables. In all constructed since that time for the army-service, the 
width allowed for each horse is about 4f feet. 

This increase of space produced from 1835 to 1858 a reduction in the 
number of horses lost in 1,000, from 51 deaths by glanders in the period 
from 1835 to 1845 to 10 only during that from 1845 to 1858, and from 94 
deaths from all diseases in 1835 to 1845 to 22 only from 1848 to 1858. 

Large corporations, such as the General Omnibus Company and the 
railroad-companies, are then wrong in restricting the capacity of their 
stables to 700 or 900 cubic feet of air to a head. 

142. Permanent opening of doors and icindows. — Experiments carried on 
for several years in cavalry-regiments in garrison in the north, center, or 
south of France, have proved that horses have better health and greater 
strength when kept in stables where the doors and windows are con- 
stantly kept open night and day in all seasons than where they are kept 
shut. Similar observations have been made in stables containing a 
great many cattle, which are thus relieved from epidemic affections of 
the respiratory organs. 

143. Amount of air to be alloivcd. — When stables are not arranged so 
as to admit air throughout their whole length and by two opposite walls, 
it is proper to make in the roof at the middle of the alleys, if they are 
double or above the passage behind the horses, ventilatiug-chimneys of 
brick sufficiently large to secure a ventilation of 0,400 to 7,000 cubic feet 



332 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

of air an hour to a horse, with a velocity of 28 inches a second, which 
may be produced by a difference of temperature of 11° to 13° between the 
external air and that of the stable. This requires that the chimneys 
have a sectional area of 108 to 124 square inches to a horse. 

By means of this ventilation, the hygrometrical condition of the air in 
the stable will be maintained within convenient limits. 

144. Use of gas-burners. — The ventilation of stables may be increased 
by making use of the heat given out by gas-burners used to light them 
up at night, which then allows of reducing the sectional area of the 
ventilating-pipes. 

145. Cow-houses. — What precedes relates to work-animals. In the 
case of milch-cows, it appears that a certain drowsy laziness is favorable 
to the production of milk ; and in such cases it is necessary to limit the 
ventilation to what is absolutely necessary for health. 

MEANS OF CONTROL. 

146. Means to be used to determine the condition and the results of a 
system of ventilation. — It has been shown by the numerous examples 
that precede that the establishment of a complete and regular renewal 
of air in occupied places in reality presents no difficulty, and that the 
rules to be followed are very simple. Their application will be equally 
so, and will involve but little expense if architects take care to devise 
j)lans of ventilation at the same time that they make the plans for con- 
struction, instead of waiting till the buikling is almost finished. 

But when all the arrangements have been made to secure the renewal 
of air, the first thing to do is to examine whether the desired results 
have been obtained, and the second is to regulate the operation of the 
apparatus. 

To determine what are the amounts of air carried off and drawn in, a 
small portable instrument is used, called an anemometer, consisting of 
a wind-mill with light and easily-moved vanes, connected with gear- 
wheels and pointers, which indicate the number of turns made by the 
vanes in a given time. 

Experiments show that with an apparatus of this kind the velocity 
of the air may be deduced from the number of turns of the wings by 
means of an equation of the form : 

V being the velocity in a second ; 

a, a constant term, expressing the velocity of the air at which the in- 
strument commences to movej 
&, a constant number ; 
j^, the number of turns indicated in a second. 

Thus, one of the anemometers of the Conservatory has the formula: 

V (in inches) = 8.GG + 7 N 
This instrument should be placed, as far as possible, in a part of the 
flue traversed by the air, where the velocity is uniform and well regu- 



WARMING AND VENTILATION. .S3 3 

lated. If slioultl be kept in operation at least two minutes, if a watch in- 
dicating seconds be used ; and four or five, if a watcb indicating minutes 
only is employed. From the number of turns made in this interval of 
time may be deduced that corresponding to a second, whence the ve- 
locity, V, may be obtained. This velocity, multiplied by the sectional 
area of the flue, will give the amount of air passing through in a second, 
and from this the amount passing through in 3,600 seconds, or an hour, 
can be obtained. 

If it be feared that the velocity in the flue is variable, on account of 
its large size or other circumstances, it will be necessary to try the 
instrument at different jjlaces, which will then give with sufficient exact- 
ness the mean velocity of the air. 

When it is desired to determine the volume of air which is carried 
out or drawn in through an opening covered with a grating, the ane- 
mometer should not be placed above or in front of this opening, as is 
done by many observers, and the velocity resulting from the number of 
turns observed taken as the mean velocity of the air passing through. 
Serious errors will result from this method. The proper way is to place 
before the opening, and fitting to it as closely as possible, a pipe having 
at one end the form of the opening, and joining at the other end a cylin- 
drical pipe at least 2 feet long, in which the anemometer should be 
placed, which would then indicate the velocity of passage in this part 
of the auxiliary pipe. The velocity of the air introduced or withdrawn 
in a second or an hour may easily be deduced afterward. 

147. Means of insuring the regularity of the ventilatio7i. — While the use 
of portable anemometers serv^es for experimental investigations and for 
the determination of the results obtained by the ventilation, it is not 
sufficient to secure the necessary regularity of ventilation in large estab- 
lishments. 

In such cases it is necessary to introduce much larger anemometers, 
connected with an electrical recording-apparatus placed in the office of 
the superintendent, or in a conspicuous place where it can be seen every 
hour, or every morning and evening, whether the renewal of air is pro- 
ceeding with regularity and with the prescribed energy. 

This is not the place to describe the apparatus.* I confine myself to 
stating that an anemometer of the kind has been employed with suc- 
cess lor several years at the Conservatory of Arts and Trades, to insure 
regularity in the ventilation of the lecture-rooms ; and that every year 
it works for about five consecutive months without derangement, and 
without requiring any care but the renewal of the solutions in the bat- 
tery two or three times a season. 

A similar anemometer has been in constant operation for several 
mouths in the ventilating-chimney at Lariboisiere Hospital, and has 
served to show, every morning, the amount of foul air removed from a 

* See the AnnaJca du Conservatoire, vol. 5, 18G4, p. 341. 



334 WARMING AND VENTILATION. 

wing contaiuing 106 beds, during the night, and, every evening, the 
amount during the day. 

Methods of observation of this kind, automatic and independent of 
the personal action of the employes, are the indispensable adjuncts of 
great ventilating systems, if it be desired that the service be performed 
in a regular manner. They also serve to render the work of inspection 
by the heads of the establishment more easy and efficient. 



Errata in previous portion of this article contained in the report for 1873 : 

In § 31, pp. 308, 309, for 1,000 cubic feet iveigli, read one cubic foot xmighs ; and for 

weight of 1,000 cubic feet, read iveight of one cubic foot. 
In § 35, pp.310, 311, for 0.000075G, 0.000081, 0.000005, 0.000077, 0.000074, 0.000003, read 

0.0750, 0.081, 0.005, 0.077, 0.074, 0.003 respectively. 



ETHNOLOGY 



[It is considered important to collect all possible iuformation as to tbe 
location and character of ancient earth-works, which exist in various 
parts of the United States, with a view to classify them and determine 
their distribution in relation to special topographical features of the 
country as well as to different regions. For this purpose the correspond- 
ents of the Institution are respectfully requested to furnish information 
as to any ancient remains of this character existing in their neighbor- 
hoods. — J. H.] 

ANCIENT GRAVES AXD SHELL HEAPS OF CALIFORNIA. 

By Paul ScnuMAcriEU. 

During my visit to that part of the California coast between Point 
San Luis and Point Sal, (Map A,) in the months of April, May, and 
June, of 1874, 1 often had occasion to observe extensive shell-heaps, like 
those I had found about a year previously so numerous along the shores 
of Oregon. These deposits of shells and bones are the kitchen refuse of 
the earlier inhabitants of the coast regions, where they are now found, 
and, though differing from each other in their respective species of shells 
and bones of vertebrates, according to the localities and the ages to 
which they belong, they have still, together with the stone implements 
found in them, a remarkable similarity in all parts of the North Ameri- 
can Pacific coast that I have explored — a similarity that extends further 
to the shell heaps or ^^ KjokJcen-moddings'^ of distant Denmark, as investi- 
gated and described by European scientists. 

In Oregon, from Chetko to Eogue Kiver,* I found that these deposits 
contained the following species of shells : Mytilns Californianus, Tajyes 
staminea, Cardmm NuttaUU, Purpura lacUica, See.] eight-tenths of the 
whole being of the species first mentioned. 

In California, on the extensive downs between the Arroyo Grande and 
the Rio de la Santa Maria, the mouth of which latter is a few miles north 
of Point Sal, I found that the shells, on what appear to have been tem- 
porary camping-places, consist nearly altogether of small specimens of 
the family Lucina; so much so that not only can scarcely any other sort 

* Of the collections made by the writer at that place, the complete and illustrated 
description will be found in the Smithsonian Report for the year 1873, p. 354. 



33G 



ETHNOLOGY. 






a 


g-'S fl M 

3 « 


CO |i 


X 


'5 S fe 






|°1 ^ 








O i5 




1 


a. 




^ 



SCHUMACHER ANCIENT GRAVES IN CALIFOANIA. 337 

be foimd, but hardly even any bones. My reason for supposing these 
heaps to be the remains of merely temporary camps, is the small num- 
ber of flint knives, spear-heads, and other imi:)lements found therein, and 
the total absence of any chips that might indicate the occasional pres- 
ence of a workshop where domestic tools and weapons of war were man- 
ufactured — a something that immediately strikes the accustomed eye in 
viewing regularly well-established settlements. On further examining 
this class of heaps by a vertical section, we find layers of sand recur- 
ring at short intervals, which seem to indicate that they were visited at 
fixed seasons ; those vioddings exposed toward the northwest being 
vacated while the wind from southwest was blowing sand over them, 
and, mutatis mutandis, the same happening with regard to camps with 
a southwest aspect while the northwest wind i)revailed. It is fair, then, 
to suppose that these places were only the temporary residences of the 
savages to whom they appertained ; that they were tenanted during 
favorable times and seasons for the gathering of mollusks, which, 
having been extracted from their shells, were dried in the sun for trans- 
portation to the distant permanent villages. The comparatively small 
qnantities of shell-remains now found at these regular settlements going 
also to support this theory. No graves have been found near these tem- 
porary camps. I discovered, however, one skeleton of an Indian, in con- 
nection with which were thirteen arrow-heads, but it was plainly to be 
seen that the death of this person had happened during some short sojourn 
of a tribe at this place, as the burial had been effected in a hasty and 
imperfect manner, and the grave was without the usual lining which, 
as we sliall see, is found in all the other tombs of this region. 

On the extremity of Point Sal, the ncuthern projection of which is 
covered by large sand-drifts, we find, down to the very brink of the 
steep and rocky shore, other extensive shell-deposits, which, with few 
exceptions, consist of the Mytihis Californianus and of bones ; flint chips 
being also found, though very sparsely in comparison with the mass of 
other remains. The sea having washed oat the base of this declivity, 
and the top-soil having, as a consequence, slid down, we see on the edge 
of the cliff shell-layers amounting in all to a thickness of four or five 
feet; that part closest to the underlying rock appearing dark and ash- 
like, while the deposit becomes better preserved as the surface is neared. 
At other places, for example, on the extreme outer spur of this Point 
Sal, the shell-remains have been so conglomerated or cemented together 
by extreme antiquity as to overhang and beetle over the rocks for 
quite a distance. 

Leaving the temporary camps, we shall visit the regular settlements 
of the ancient aborigines. Traces of these are found near the southern 
Point Sal, at a place where it turns eastward at an angle of something 
less than 90C', behind the first small hill of the steep ridge which trends 
easterly into the country, and which, up to this spot, is, on its northern 
slope, covered with drift-sand and partially grown over with stunted her- 
22 s 



338 



ETHNOLOGY. 



bnge, (Fig. 2.) Further traces of a like kind are to be seen on the high 
blnft" between North and South Point Sal, (Fig. 3.) Here the shells are 



Fie 2. 



B 









•m: 



































^3^:^^^ 



piled up in shapeless, irregular heaps, as they are met in all localities on 
the coast where there were the fixed dwelling-places of people whose prin- 
cipal food consisted of fresh shellfish ; for iu the neighborhood of these 
permanent homes the shell-remains were always put away in fixed 
places, while in temporary camps they were carelessly distributed over 
the whole surface of the ground. Very vividly did these bleached 
mounds recall to my mind the immense remains of such heaps as I 
had seen in Oregon, on the right bank of the Chetko, as also near Niit-e- 
net, and near Crook's Point, Chetl-e-shin, close to Pistol River. I re- 



SCHUMACHER ANCIENT GRAVES IN CALIFORNIA. 



339 



membered, also, liow I bad observed tbe Indians in various places; for 
example, near Crescent City, on tbe Klamatb, and on tbe Big Lag-oon, 
forming just sucb sbell-beaps; two or tbree families always depositing 
tbeir refuse on the same beap. 

Fie. 3. 



O 



■.'■\\ \'' : 


-' '"''Id-.- 


• ;-.■ ; 


• 1 


■]■'/■■ •■. .. 


■•■'."- :■'=• ; -^j 


■[-■ •..'-'.'i^ 


■■.■•;.?;■" 

A'} 






, ' .'ifi-^r."'' 


;'. . ■ ■ .■>■.■■..■.• 


"'•'■'. ■.Ill 




■ -Sji^. 




'.'1 ' ' • ' ., " , 




■ " ■ ' t ■': 








.mi.. : • 


;#::;::;; 




• ? 






>:'- ."■•■■..' 


• "1 ■ J-.' • . . 


• 


-■ ' ■ .'iv - 








^: ■ .\\ ■ '. 










'.'• ^ •*■ ; .' 




. '■ • • •.' .''','- 


■ - ':i ■ - - 


'■::W: 


.' •■■;. '■ 


' ■ r 1 • ■ ■• ■ 


'•• '.-■••' '.■'■' 








t \ ' 


-\ \ ^ -' /'• 






'■ '■■''f^''".' ' 






*.**-• -. 


.'.■■.'■.•'■ ■■ ■ . . 



To return to Soutberu California. A deposit similar to tbat of Point 
Sal, altbougb much smaller, is found on tbe left bank of tbe Santa 
Maria Eiver, near its moutb. Botb at tbe first-described fixed camps 
and at tbis place tbere are to be found tons of flint-cbips, scattered 
about in all directions, as also knives, arrow-beads, and spear-beads in 
large numbers. 1 was somewbat disappointed, bowever, in being un- 
able to find any graves; sucb numerous beaps indicating tbe existence 
of important settlements, tbat sbould bave been accompanied by bury- 
ing-places. I therefore moved farther inland, seeking a locality where 
tbe soil could be easily worked, where a good view of tbe surrounding 
country could be bad, and where, above all, tbere was fresh water, all 
of which requirements appear to have been regarded as necessary for 



uo 



ETHNOLOGY. 



the location of an important village. I soon recognized at a distance 
shell-heaps and bones, the former of which become scarcer as we leave 
the shore. Approaching these, on a spnr of Point Sal, upon which a 
pass opens through the coast-hills, and on both sides of which are 
springs of fresh water, though I did not succeed, after a careful exami- 
nation, in distinguishing the remains of a single house, I think I found 
the traces of a large settlement on a kind of saddle on the low ridge, 
where flint-chips, bones, and shells lie in great numbers. At length 
search revealed to me in the thick chaparral a few scattered sandstone 
slabs, such as in that region were used for lining graves. Digging near 
these spots, I at last found the graves of this settlement, called by the 
old Spanish residents call Kes-ma-li. (Fig. 4.) 

Fis. 4. 




Plstaiice from Bendof Road 

to Graves about % ]M, 
Curves 20 ft. apT). 



SCHUMACHER ANCIENT GRAVES IN CALIFORNIA. 341 

Here were brouglit to light about one hundred and fifty skeletons and 
various kiuds of implements. The graves were constructed in the fol- 
lowing manner: A large hole was made in the sandy soil to a depth of 
about five feet ; then a fire was kept in it until a hard brick-like crust was 
burned to a depth of four or five inches into the surrounding earth. 
The whole excavation was then partitioned off into smaller spaces by 
sandstone slabs, about one and a half inches thick, one foot broad, and 
three feet long ; in which smaller partitions the skeletons were found. 
One of these slabs genertjlly lay horizontally over the head of the corpse, 
as a kind of protecting roof for. the skull, just as I found them at Chetko 
Eiver, although in the latter place the graves were lined with split 
redwood boards instead of stones. Such careful burial is not, however, 
always met with, and must evidently be taken as a sign of the rank 
or the wealth of the deceased ; the more so, as in such graves I usu- 
ally found many utensils, which is not the case with the more care- 
lessly formed tombs, which were covered with a T)iece of rough stone or 
half a mortar. The slabs above mentioned were generally painted, and 
a piece which I carried off with me was divided lengthwise by a single 
straight, dark line, from which radiated, on either side, at an angle of 
about 60°, thirty-two other parallel red lines, sixteen on each side, like 
the bones of a fish from the vertebrae. In most cases the inner side of 
the slab was painted red. Unluckily the specimen I took with me be- 
came wet, by rain, before I was able to convey it to a place of safety, 
and the previously- well-preserved design was blurred. 

In these graves the skeletons lay on their backs, with the knees drawn 
up, and the arms, in most cases, stretched out. No definite direction 
was observed in the position of the bodies, which frequently lay in 
great disorder, the saving of room having been apparently the prime 
consideration. Some skeletons, for example, lay opposite to each other, 
foot to foot, while adjoining ones, again, were placed crosswise. The 
skeletons of females have, instead of the protecting head-slab, a stone 
mortar or a stone pot placed on its edge, so as to admit the skull, which 
latter, if too narrow in the neck to admit the skull, is simply buried 
underneath it. Cups and ornaments, both in the case of men and wo- 
men, lie principally about the head, while shell-beads are found in the 
mouth, the eye-sockets, and in the cavity of the skull, which latter is 
almost always filled with sand, pressed in through the foramen magnum. 
The skeletons were, in some cases, packed in quite closely, one over 
another, so that the uppermost were only about three feet below the 
surface of the ground. The indications of poverty are very evident in 
regard to these, in the scarcity of ornaments, except, perhaps, when 
they are females, as they are in the majority of cases. I cannot accept 
the hypothesis that these were the slaves of some rich man and buried 
with their master ; for the lower skeletons were generally found to have 
been disturbed in a very singular manner, such as could only have been 
occasioned by a re-opening of the grave after the decomposition of the 



342 ETHNOLOGY. 

bodies. I fouud, for example, a lower jaw lying near its right place, 
but upside down, so that both the upper and the lower teeth pointed down- 
ward ; in another case the tliigh-bones lay the wrong way, the knee- 
pans being turned toward the basin ; and, in other instances, the bones 
were totally separated and mixed up ; all tending to show that the graves 
had been repeatedly opened for the burial of bodies at different times. 
Once I even found, upon piercing the bottom-crust of a sepulchre, 
another lying deeper, which, perhaps, had been forgotten, as the bones 
therein were somewhat damaged by fire. Plenty of charcoal is found in 
these tombs, usually of redwood, rarely of pine, and I could not deter- 
mine any third variety. Sometimes there were also discovered the re- 
mains of posts from three to six inches in diameter, and of split boards 
about two inches in thickness. These are probably the remains of the 
burned dwelling of the deceased, placed in his grave with all his other 
property, after the fashion 1 observed in Chetko last year. 

I examined other graves resembling those described at Point Sal. 
These others are known by the name of T6-me-te-ti. They lie about 
fourteen miles north of the Point Sal graves, and are situated on the 
right bank of the Arroyo de los Berros, opposite to the traces of former 
settlements about seven miles inland. These tombs only differed from 
those of Kes-ma-ti in not being lined with the thick burned brick-like 
crust mentioned above, but with a thin light-colored crust, sbghtly 
burned, and not more than a quarter of an inch thick. 

To these graves I paid a second visit, hoping to obtain more material, 
having been there only a very short time at my first visit. But the 
proprietor of the land disappointed my desires, for he appeared, in spite 
of my scientific explanations, to be inclined, according to squatter- 
fashion, to prevent, with his rifle, my visit to the land, to which he pos- 
sessed no title. These were the graves where I found the bronze cup, 
and a buckle of the same material, which later, I am sorry to say, was 
unaccountably lost. I had hopes to discover more of such articles, 
enabling me to trace the connections of these people. The location ot 
this village is rather hidden; it is situated on a small plain between a 
bluffy elevation on the left bank, and the rather high and wooded right 
banks of the Los Berros Creek. I could plainly notice the excavations 
where houses had formerly stood, and particularly the large sweat- 
house. 

In company with the well-informed and industrious antiquarian. Dr. 
W. W. Ilays, and Judge Yenabel, of San Luis Obispo, I explored 
another aboriginal settlement known by the name of Ni-po-mo. It is 
situated on the large rancho of like name, about eight miles inland, and 
distant about a mile and a half from the Nipomo Eanch House, occu- 
pied by the hospitable Dana brothers. These graves are also in sandy 
soil, near a former settlement, the existence of which is well marked by 
quantities of flint-chips, fragments of tools, bones, and a few shells. 
Only about three hundred yards from the graves, and nearly in a 



SCHUMACHER ANCIENT GRAVES IN CALIFORNIA. tJ43 

straight line with them and one of the houses of Nipomo Ranchj there 
is a large spring of good water, surrounded by willows. These graves 
were indicated by an elder-bush, a plant which 1 always found near the 
graves, or in the neighborhood of ancient settlements. 

Lastly, I examined the Wa-le-ktie settlements, (Fig. 5.) 1 hesitated 
to undertake the trip to these graves, because I only had four days left 
before the departure of the steamer ; and consequently I would only 
have about six hours remaining for work. But, as I supposed this 
country offered much of interest to the explorer, I made only the fol- 
lowing examination : 

About twenty-five miles from the mouth of the Santa Maria River 
the Alamo Creek empties into it, discharging a large amount of water. 
Following the wide bed of the Santa Maria for about seven miles farther 
up stream, we reach a smooth elevation, which at this place rises about 
sixty feet above the bend of the river, and which trends in a curve 
toward the mountains on the right bank. At the farthest end of this, at 
a place where a fine view over the whole A^alley is had, wefiud the traces 
of the ancient village, now known as Wa-le-kue. A short distance from 
the former dwellings, on the highest point of the ridge, an excavation 
marks the spot where once a house stood, probably that of a chief. 

I started from San Luis Obispo to visit this place, passing by the 
remarkable tar-springs, which are situated at about a distance of eight- 
een miles from the town. Near them I found traces of what had formerly 
been a large ditch. As before stated, I had not time to make thor- 
ough examinations, yet 1 found that the ditch was still three feet wide, 
and entered the creek some miles above the tar-springs, on the banks of 
which creek the said springs are found in different places. Near the road 
I observed, in the middle of the ditch, an oak-tree, measuring twelve 
inches in diameter, and which plainly had taken root after the abandon- 
ment of the ditch ; for it was not torn up, as would have been caused 
by the running water, but was at this place well preserved. 

I also visited Ostion rancho, (sometimes called Eanchito,) at which 
place there are extensive beds of oyster-shells, and also some other 
species of shells, among which are prominently Tapes. At one place, 
about fifty yards from the right bank of the Arroyo Grande, the shells 
are closely packed and bound together with coarse sand, forming quite 
an extensive bluff. I collected a few specimens, which I presented to 
the California Academy of Sciences. 

At the place where Alamo Creek empties into the Santa Maria Eiver, 
on its left bank, I found several earth-works, and they appeared to me 
to have been built on this level but elevated spot, the entrance of the 
valley, for defensive purposes. During my hasty examination I could 
not discover any place where a house might have been, nor any graves, 
but nevertheless I incline to the belief that near this place had been an 
important settlement ; for Alamo Creek has better drinking-water than 
the Santa Maria River, and its width and the adjoining country form 



344 



ETHNOLOGY, 



E 



Fiff. 5. 



WA-LE-KHE 

Carves; 10 ft. elevation eacli. 
© 23 ft. Diameter: 
© 14 " " and less. 

orWiiV Cucumls Colocyntliis, 




SCHUMACHER — ANCIENT GRAVES IN CALIFORNIA. 345 

quite a picturesque landscape, which, together with theexcellenthunting- 
ground, is really most invitiug for a settlement. Probably, ou closer 
examiuatioD, the remains of a settlement might be found in the plain on 
the right bank, where the elder-bushes give welaome shade to man and 
beast. I have no doubt that the banks of Alamo Creek and the sur- 
rounding country will yet yield many remains of former settlements, 
as also the banks of the Santa Maria River and its tributaries, where, 
besides the settlement of Walekhe, which 1 explored, there are two 
others, known to the ever-roving Vaqueros. 

With regard to the general character of the domestic utensils, arms, 
and ornaments which I found in examining about three hundred skele- 
tons in the graves of Kes-mali, Te-me-te-ti, Ni-po-mo, and Wa-le-khe, 
they all resemble each other very closely, seeming to show that their 
possessors all belonged to the same tribe. First of all, the large cooking- 
pots attract attention. They consist of globular or pear-shaped bodies, 
hollowed out of magnesian mica. The circular opening, having a small 
and narrow rim, measures only live inches in diameter in a pot with a 
diameter of eighteen inches. 'Nea.v the edge of the opening, this vessel 
is only a quarter of an inch thick, but its thickness increases in a very 
regular manner toward the bottom, where it measures about one and a 
quarter inches. Made of the same material, I found other pots of a 
diflerent shape, namely, very wide across the opening, and narrowing 
toward the bottom. With these I have also now in my possession many 
different sizes of sandstone mortars, of a general semiglobular shape, 
varying from three inches in diameter and one inch and a half in height 
to sixteen inches in diameter and thirteen inches in height, all external 
measurements, with pestles of the same material to correspond. There 
were, further, quite an assortment of cups, measuring from one and a 
quarter to six inches in diameter, neatly worked out of serpentine, and 
polished. The smallest of these was inclosed, as in a doubly-covered 
dish, by three shells, and contained paint, traces of which, by the way, 
were found in all these cups, from which we may suppose that they 
were not xised for holding food. 

Neither spoons nor knives were found in these graves. I got, how- 
ever, three beautiful serpentine pipes, shaped like cigar-holders, much 
stronger than, but similar in shape to, those found in Oregon. Not 
many weapons were picked up here, only a few arrow and spear heads; 
these, however, were mostly of exquisite workmanship. A spear-head 
of obsidian, five and a half inches long, was' the only object I found of 
this material; another lance-point of chalcedony, nine and a half inches 
long and one and a quarter inches wide, was beautifully shaped and 
carefully made. 

A remarkable object is a bronze cup which was found at Te-mc-te-ti. 
It was filled with red paint, and contained also the pretty paint-cup in- 
closed in the three shells mentioned before. I also found in the same 
grave, a Spanish coin of the last century, and a bronze buckle, 



346 



ETHNOLOGY. 



which latter was lost. The brouze cap, the coiu, and a pot of burnt, 
coarse, sautly clay which was foimd at M-po-mo, and also a few remains 
of corroded iron knives, found in the three graves, tell us of the last 
days of the existence of these people at a time when they evidently had 
held intercourse with the advancing missionaries, who, almost every- 
where in America, were the pioneers of civilization. 

Fiix. 6. 



^ 












% 



/" 



\ ' 



r 



il-s^' 




Most of the objects were found perfect ; and those which were not, had 
been broken by the pressure and shifting of the soil, as could easily be 
seen from their position. It is, therefore, certain that the bulk of the 
property buried with a person was not purposely broken nor destroyed, 
the same thing being true of my investigations in Oregon. I even 
found mortars and pestles which had been repaired and cemented with 
asphaltutn. The richer occupants of the graves had shell and glass 



SCHUMACHER — ANCIENT GRAVES IN CALIFORNIA. 347 

beads in great numbers, sickle-shaped ornaments of tbe ahalone (ludioiis) 
shell, and an ornament resembling dentaliunij but made of a large clam- 
shell, strewed about their heads. 

During my explorations I also diligently searched for caves which 
might have been inhabited and from which important information might 
have been obtained. But in these investigations I did not meet with 
much success, partly because 1 had not the time necessary at my dis- 
posal, for scarcely had I got to a place where tbey existed, when my duties 
demanded my attention and obliged me to give up the exploration. I 
could, therefore, only designate on my map the place which I might, with 
some degree of certainty, suppose to be a formerly-inhabited cave, so 
as to facilitate later investigations. Once I was obliged to suspend 
work at Point Sal for a Avhole week on account of thick fog. I had time, 
however, to search in the gorges and rocks, hoping to find ethnological 
objects. I discovered and opened at that time the graves of Kes-mali, 
and not far off the cave, (Figs. 4 and G.) But I was rather disap- 
pointed, when, after clambering through and over almost inaccessible 
places, I reached the cave, and found that it was only eight by four feet 
wide and eight feet high ; and that there were in it only one pestle, with 
many oyster- shells, bones, and teeth. The floor was formed of stratified 
brown ash-like soil, iu which were the above-mentioned objects. The 
circular entrance to the cave measured three feet in diameter. On the 
right-hand side of the entrance was a niche which had evidently been 
worked out of the hard but cracked sandstone, and was large enough for 
one person to sit comfortably therein. Toward the back part, the cave 
has also been worked out, so that a person might lie down stretched out ; 
that is, I found that I could comfortably occupy these positions, although 
I am seventy-three inches in height. The whole cave, it appears to me, 
has been artificially made with a chisel. I did not examine the articles 
which it contained very closely, and must, therefore, refer to the col- 
lection itself. For the same reason, I have not said much about all the 
other objects of the collection, but refer for more particulars to the fol- 
lowing catalogue and to the collection itself. 



CATALOGUE OF IMPLEMENTS FOUND IN THE DIFFERENT GRAVES. 

1. Cup for preparing paints, together with an egg-shaped grinder, Xo. 

42. Kes-md-ll. 

2. Mortar for preparing paints ; found with red paint in bronze vessel. 

Te-me-te-ti. 

3. IVIortar, soft gray sandstone. Ni-po-mo. 

4. Mortar, hard gray sandstone. Nl-po-mo. 

5. Mortar, soft gray sandstone. Ni-po-mo. 

C. Paint-cup, dark stone, was found, together with the pipe, Xo. 40. 

N.* 

* N = Ni-po-mo ; K, Kes-mu-li ; T = Te-me-te-ti ; W = Wa-le-kbc- 



Mortar. 


N. 


Mortar. 


N. 


Mortar. 


N. 


Mortar. 


T. 


Mortar. 


N. 


Mortar. 


K. 



348 ETHNOLOGY. 

7. Mortar, saDdstone, roughly made. K. 

8. Mortar, perfect. W. 

9. Mortar. :»". 

10. Cup made of talco-slat*^. N. 

11. Mortar, from graves at the mouth of Sau Luis Obispo Creek. (See 

map A.) 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
IG. 
17. 

IS. Mortar, repaired with asphaltum. W. 
19-22. Mortar-halves, as found protecting skulls, (mostly of females,) 

N, K, and T. 

23. Pot of magnesian-mica, pear-shaped. W. I 

24. Pot of magnesian-mica, wide opening. W. 

25. Pot of magnesian-mica, globular. N. 

26. Pot of magnesian-mica, globular. N. 

27. Pot of magnesian-mica, globular. T. 

28. Pestle, sandstone. X. I 
' 29. Pestle, sandstone. N. 

30. Pestle, sandstone. N. 

31. Pestle, well worked, found in cave at Point Sal. ' 

32. Pestle, fragment. N. 

33. Pestle. N. I 

34. Pestle. K 

35. Pestle, fragment. 

36. Pestle, repaired with asphaltum. T. ' 

37. Pestle. W. 

38. Pestle. N. i 

39. Doubtful, at the shell-heaps. Point Sal. ! 

40. Flesher, (dressing skins.) Point Sal. 

41. Whetstone. K. 

42. Egg shaped pestle, (to cup No. 1.) K. 

43. Egg-shaped pestle. K. 

44. 45. Arrow-shaft polisher. N. 

46. Pipe. 2^. 

47. Pipe. N. 

48. Pipe. N. 

49. Amulet, (serpentine.) K. 

50. Fossil, vertebra of (?) K. 

51. Pot of burnt clay. N. 

52. Cup of talco-slate. N. 

53. Bronze cup. T, 
54-66. Skulls. K. 



SCHUMACHER ANCIENT GRAVES IN CALIFORNIA. 349 

Skull No. 57 supposed to be of a vvhite luau, and was fonud, 
with tlie rest of the bones, atuoug the rubbish of a shell- 
heap at Point Sal. 
G7-70. Skulls. N. 
71. Skulls. W. 
73. Bones. W. 

73. Slab, of which the linings of graves, in most cases, consisted. N. 

74. Shell-ornaments. N. 

75. Teeth, shell-heaps. Point Sal. 

70. Cup covered with three shells. T. 

77. Glass beads. N. 

78. Shell beads, (dentalium-like.) N. 

79. Ornament. Point Sal. 

80. Plate, (fragment.) N. 

81. Plate. N. 

82. Plate, (machine-drilled hole.) N. 

83. Beads made of shells. K. 

84. Bone(-bow ?) shell-heap. Point Sal. 

85. Hair, &c. 

80. Bill of a bird, found in the mouth of a skeleton. J^. 

87. Eed color, found in a pot. 

88. Beads of serpentine and shell. N. 

89. Mortar, (ornainental ?) K 

90. Eim of a bowl of serpentine. N. 

91. Seed found in a pot. N. 

92. Arrow-heads found with skull No. 105, on a temporary camping- 

ground, as remarked in the text. 

93. Ear-oruaraents. N. 

94. Shell ornaments. K. 

95. Seed found in a pot. N. 
90. Abalone ornaments. N. 

97. x\balone found in excavity of brains. N. 

98. Crystals of quartz. N. 

99. Shell ornaments, (dentalium-like.) N. 

100. Cave results. 

101. Bead of shell, finely finished and carved. K. 

102. Shell ornaments. 

103. Wall of grave. K. 

104. Skull, animal, found on shell-heap. Point Sal. 

105. Skull found ou temporary camping-ground, as mentioned in text, 

with arrow-heads. No. 92. 
100. Spear-heads and arrow-points. N. 
107, 108. Lance-heads. 

109. Knives, as found especially ou temporary camping-grounds. 

110. Ornaments of serpentine. N. 

111. Stone blade. N. 



350 ■ ETHNOLOGY. 

112. Pestle, on shell-heaps. Point Sal. 

113. Black paint, (?) found in pots, and often strewn about the skulls. 

114. Knives, arrow-heads, &c., as found on surface near mouth of Santa 

Maria Kiver and other places, with indications of a formerly- 
permanent camp. 

115. Red paint, 
lie. Coin. 

liEMAKK. — The name of the grave was attached to the article when 
exhumed, and the place described when it was found on the surface. 



ACCOUNT OF THE BIRIAL OF AX INDIAN SQFAW, SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY, 
CALIFORNIA, MAY, 18U. 

By W. M. King. 

The body, cleanly washed, was dressed in its best clothing. Outside 
of thp clothing, and confining it to the body, was a bandage, apparently 
a sheet, torn in half. The feet were covered and bound together, the arms 
confined to the side, and the face covered by a bandage. The body 
thas prepared was laid upon the ground, while the men of the party dug 
the grave. While the grave was being dug, an old squaw danced slowly 
once round the body, singing in a wailing tone, then seated herself at 
its head, and continued her singing and wailing, sometimes breaking oft' 
and addressing the corpse, at the same time patting its head with her 
hand. The grave being completed, the body was lowered into it, its head 
toward the south. The personal eftects of the deceased were placed be- 
side her. These consisted of a bundle of bed-clothing, several small 
bundles of calico, various tin cups and pans, a table-knife and spoon, a 
frying-pan, and, lastly, a small quantity of live ashes was thrown in 
and the grave filled up. A fire was then lighted on top of the grave, 
the squaw who acted as chief mourner gathering the sticks. She also 
threw on the pile a number of platter-shaped dishes or baskets of plaited 
grass, which were burned. When the fire had burned itself out, the 
squaw above mentioned advanced and broke an o?/rt, or water-cooler, 
on the grave, by violently dashing it on the ground. The party then 
dispersed. 

A day or two afterward the house in which the woman died was pur- 
Ijosely burned. The dishes and oya that were destroyed showed signs 
of long use, but were still perfectly serviceable. During the burial, no 
signs of emotion were shown by any of the party, either men or women, 
except by the squaw alluded to. " 



m'wHORTER ANTIQUITIES OF ILLINOIS. 351 

AJTCIEXT MOUXDS OF MEI11;ER COUNTY. ILLINOIS. 
By Tyler McWiiortkh, of Aledo, III. 

It may be approximately estimated that there are more than a thou- 
sand mounds in this county, yet persons who have not directed tlieir 
attention to the subject woukl not snppose half that number to exist. 
These mounds are generally not such as to attract very special observa- 
tion, not being of the larger size, the principal groups are very much 
flattened down by time, and seem to rehite to a more remote antiquity 
than such as are more conspicuous. 

These mounds are all located iu the portion of the county bordering 
on the Mississippi Eiver. This fact, that tlic western mounds are univer- 
sally found on lands adjoining the rivers, suggests the inference that 
the race who erected them procured their subsistence mainly from the 
water, or that the bottom-lands of the rivers constituted their principal 
hunting-grounds. 

The largest group of mounds in this county is found in Eliza Town- 
ship (township 15 north, range 5 west,) on high timbered land, about a 
mile or so back of the Mississippi bluffs. In this group may be found 
over two hundred mounds within the distance of a mile. This group 
seems to be of great antiquity, and is quite flattened down by the ele- 
ments — only rising a few feet above the general level. Probably succes- 
sive forests have grown and passed away siuce they were constructed. 
Only a few have been opened, and these revealed only beds of ashes 
and a few stones. But what seems strange, traces of ashes are oftfin 
found mixed with the earth of which the mounds are composed. 

In the immediate vicinity are also found obscure lines of old embank- 
ments that seem to relate to the same age as the mounds. 

On the bottom-lands of the Mississippi, not far from the foot of the 
bluff, in the same township, are found a few mounds of a very distinct 
character. They rise up with quite an abrupt elevation, and are mani- 
festly of a much more recent date. Presuming that the more ancient 
mounds, in the high timbered lands, at some former time had the same 
abrujit elevation as these, it manifestly must have required many years 
to reduce them by atmospheric action to their present flattened condi- 
tion. From this apparent difference in the antiquity of the mounds, it is 
evident that the race or races who erected them continued to inhabit 
this country for a considerable length of time. In these more recent 
mounds human bones have been found with the usual accomi)animent of 
ashes and stones. Also, in one of them a stick of wood was found, 
about eight inches in diameter, in a horizontal situation, a little to one 
side of the center of the mound; it was in quite a sound condition. 

As no depressions of ground are ever found in the immediate vicinity 
of mounds, it is often difficult to conjecture where the earth was ob- 
tained of which they were constructed; but there is a circumstance 
in connection with the more recent mounds that seems to have a bearing 



352 ETHNOLOGY. 

ou this question. There is a considerable space of ground, nearly two 
hundred yards distant, where it seems manifest that the upper stratum 
of the surface soil has been carried away. A uniform upper stratum 
of soil is common to a large extent in this bottom-laud, but in this oue 
spot this layer is gone. It seems, therefore, probable that the earth of 
which these mounds weffe constructed was all carried from this place. 
An approximate estimate of the cubical quantity of the superficial earth 
removed from this depression, corresponds closely to what seems to 
have been the original quantity in the recent mounds. It is difficult to 
understand what motive could induce human beings to impose on them- 
selves such a task as to carry such an amount of earth two hundred 
yards. But if the amount of material necessary to erect these mounds 
had been taken from any immediate piece of ground on this uniform sur- 
face, some depressions would have remained as evidence of it. But at 
the distance of two hundred yards we find this depression, which is 
nearly as hard to account for by any natural process as it would be to 
explain the mounds themselves by natural agencies. 

There is another quite extensive range of mounds in the same town- 
ship, on grounds bordering a stream of water called Eliza Creek. So 
far as I have observed, this group seems to relate to a very ancient 
period of time. Few of the mounds, to my knowledge, have been opened. 
I am told that traces of ashes have been found in them, and, in some 
of them, human remains in a much decayed condition. 

Another very extensive range of mounds is located in the township 
of New Boston, which is the next township south of Eliza. These are ou 
the south side of the Edwards Eiver, where this stream winds its course 
across the higher bottom-lands of the Mississippi. The ground of these 
mounds has beeu under cultivation for many years, hence but obscure 
traces of them now remain. Their location was on the open prairie, 
about a half-mile from the timber-grounds bordering the Edwards. 

Broken pottery, pipes, and some implements were found by early 
settlers in the vicinity of these structures; but I have been unable to 
learn with certainty whether these were disinterred from the mounds 
themselves. 

There is, however, one circumstance in connection with this group 
of earthworks that should not be passed unnoticed. Between them 
and the Edwards is a long range of depressions in the ground. This 
range of depressions runs nearly parallel to the range of mounds, and 
is about forty rods distant. The size of these hollows seems to cor- 
respond very nearly with the size of the adjacent mounds. The con- 
jecture seems unavoidable that from each of these depressions sufficient 
earth was carried to construct a single mound. These excavations 
have no raised borders to indicate that the earth was merely thrown 
out; they indicate that so much earth has been really talcen away; and, 
further, I learn that the number of these depressions corresponds quite 



m'wHORTER ANTIQUITIES OF ILLINOIS. 353 

nearly with the number of the adjacent moauds, being about one hun- 
dred and fitty. 

Another considerable group of mounds is located in the same town- 
ship of ]!«fc\v Boston, several miles farther up the Edwards, on high 
terrace-ground, about a half-mile from the stream. This group was 
entirely away from timber, the situation being formerly covered with 
grass. For many years the ruthless plow has been leveling down these 
ancient memorials, and fields of grain have long waved over the ashes 
of a by-gone race. 

On the south side of Pope Creek, near where the valley of this stream 
cuts through the Mississippi Bluffs, is quite an extensive group of mounds. 
Some of theiu are high up on the brow of the bluffs. Nothing that I 
can learn distinguishes this group from others already spoken of. 
Human bones have been found in some of them. 

The next, and last, group of mounds to which we would call attention 
is about twelve miles from the Mississippi Kiver, being the most remote 
from that river of any group in the country. It is situated near 
the north side of the township of Millersburgh, on the high-timbered 
division between the Edwards Eiver and Camp Creek. Ashes and some 
much-decayed relics of human skeletons have been found in the few 
that have been opened. Some traces of ashes were found in the earth 
above the human remams. 

I have made diligent inquiry of all the oldest settlers, and am unable 
to learn that any mounds are to be found in the eastern portion of the 
county, except that two or three isolated ones, which are reported to be 
far up the Edwards. These I have never seen. 

Shell-heaps. — Before closing: this paper, it may be proper to state 
that formerly very large shell-heaps existed on the high, sandy bank of 
the Mississippi, immediately below New Boston. But it seems more 
probable that these heaps of kitchen-refuse relate to the subsequent 
Indian race, and not to the mound-builders. Though these shell-heaps 
are in a considerable state of decay, enough remains of them to show that 
the shells belong to the present species of our rivers. Broken pottery is 
found about these heaps, and collections of burned stones, indicating old 
camp-fires; also, abundance of flint-chips, and some broken arrows, are 
found here, to indicate that flint-implements have been manufactured. 
A careful inspection of these flint-chips leads to the conclusion that the 
flint of which these implements were made was obtained from what is 
called the " chert-bands'' of the Burlington limestone. This formation 
crops out along the Mississippi, about forty miles below this place. 
Probably the material for the manufacture of these implements was 
brought up the river in canoes. 
23 s 



354 ETHNOLOGY. 

AXTIQUITIES OF WHITESIDE COFNTT, ILLINOIS. 

By W. H. Pratt, of Davenport, Iowa. 
Corresponding Secretary DavenpoH Academy Natural Sciences, Davenport, loiva. 

On the eastern bank of the Mississippi Eiver, in Whiteside County, 
Illinois, is situated the village of Albauj'. Over the bluffs in the neigh- 
borhood is a growth of young oak trees, the largest of which are ten or 
twelve inches in diameter. On the bluff and the slope toward the river, 
about a mile south or southwest of the village, scattered irregularly over 
an area of about one-fourth by three-fourths of a mile, are fifty-one an- 
cient mounds, the positions and dimensions of which I have approxi- 
mately determined, having spent several days in August of this year, 
1873, in the exploration in the interest of the Davenport Academy of 
Natural Sciences. 

A general view of the whole is represented in the accompanying plan, 
(Fig. 1.) 

The land is owned by Mr. Samuel Rosenkranz, of Albany, who kindly 
allows the exploration and excavation of the mounds without restriction, 
except the reservation of a few of the most prominent. A few other 
mounds are said to exist not far distant to the northeast, but I have not 
seen them. It is also stated that two or three were removed some years 
since in making the grade of the Western Union Eailroad, which passes 
close by the mounds, between them and the river. Over the area above 
mentioned ihe young timber has been mostly cut off, and on the higher 
portions evidently very few trees have ever existed. The soil is almost 
entirely sand. The high land or bluff terminates abruptly to the south- 
ward in a bold, narrow jioiut. 

A position on one of the highest mounds, some of which are situated 
on this point, commands one of the broadest views to be found in the 
whole Mississippi Valley, with a sweep of more than half a circle, in- 
cluding the river and valley, and islands to the north and west and south- 
west; and to the south and southeast the " Dosia," as it is commonly 
called, or " Maredosia Slough," or, as it was originally named, the " Ma- 
rais cVOgee,''' an ancient channel of many miles in extent, connecting the 
Eock River with the Mississippi. In this the current flows in either 
direction from the higher toward the lower of the two rivers at different 
times. The " slough" is a broad marsh, nearly dry during a dry season, 
and is believed to have been once the channel of a part of the Missis- 
sippi, which divided at this point, and re-united at the present mouth of 
Rock Eiver, forty miles below. The location is one of rare beauty, and 
has doubtless been for ages, as it is now, a favorite resort of hunters. 
The high point above mentioned is a narrow and rather abrupt sand- 
ridge, formed doubtless by the action of the current when the Father 
of Waters occupied the entire breadth of the valley. 

There is nothing in the relative position of the tumuli, as will be 



PEATT ANTIQUITIES OF ILLINOIS. 



355 



FiK. 1. 







356 ETHNOLOGY. 

readily seen by reference to the diagram, to indicate any arrangement 
or design whatever, except to construct them where it could be done 
with least labor, by taking advantage of the ridges and slight elevations 
of loose and sandy soil. The structures vary in height from two to 
twelve feet, the diameter being five or six times the height. They are 
usually circular, only four or five being elliptical, the I'^ngth of these about 
double the breadth, and the longer diameter being parallel with the 
river. The outline of surface is such as would naturally result from a 
rounded heaj) of sand or loose earth exposed for ages to the action of 
the elements, the surface being protected by such grasses, plants, bushes, 
or trees as the soil would produce. The exact height and diameter are 
consequently difficult to determine, but it would appear that they had 
originally been from four to fifteen feet in height and perhaps four 
times those measures in diameter. 

All of the largest mounds and several of the smaller are upon the 
high ground, from one hundred and twenty to one hundred and 
fifty feet above the river. The rest are on the slope between it and 
the river. I selected for examination one of several similar mounds, 
which were situated in a row parallel with the river, and but a few rods 
northwest of the sandy ridge, at some fifty feet lower level, and on 
ground sloping gently toward the Mississippi, which is distant about 
one-fourth of a mile. This mound is marked 1 on the plan. It was about 
four feet high and twenty-five in diameter. On the top was the stump 
of an oak tree, five inches in diameter. This mound is composed, as are 
the most of those which have been opened, of a loose fine sand, with 
here and there a stone of two or three pounds' weight or more, of the 
Niagara limestone and the sandstone common in this region, many of 
them evidently having been subjected to the action of fire before they 
were placed there. No floor, wall, or internal structure of any kind was 
found, and the same is the case in almost all instances in this district. 

Making an excavation from one side and toward the middle, on reach- 
ing a depth of six feet from the top, a quantity of human bones was 
discovered lying about in the center of the mound. Seven adult and 
one child's skulls were exhumed, the latter falling in pieces as soon as it 
was removed. The adult skulls were more or less crushed and distorted, 
and some portions entirely decayed ; two of them, however, were secured 
in tolerably good condition, one containing thirty-two sound teeth, the 
other wanting but two or three. Many teeth were found with fragments 
of decayed jaw-bones, and it is very evident that, whatever the troubles 
and trials to which their possessors were subject, that plague of modern 
times, the tooth-ache, was one from which they were pretty much 
exempt. 

The crania have apparently been subjected in life to no artificial dis- 
tortion nor compression, except, possibly, some flattening of the occipital 
region, such as is said to be produced by the position and manner in 
which some tribes confine the inlant to a cradle-board. This seems the 



PRATT ANTIQUITIES OF ILLINOIS. 357 

more probable, as it is observed that the children's skulls found here 
exhibit tbe same peculiarity in a more marked degree 5 the adults having 
probably partially outgrown its effect. The heavy, superciliary ridge, 
retreating forehead, and protruding and very wide jaws, and great bi- 
mastoidal diameter, as compared with the bi-parietal, are indicative of 
physical rather than of mental or moral capacity. 

The accompanying description, with table of measurements by Dr. 
Farquharcon, will abundantly show such prevailing peculiarities as 
fully identify them as skulls of genuine " mound-builders.-' 

As portions of all parts of the skeleton are found, it would appear 
that the whole of each has been deposited there, though thrown in 
rather " promiscuously." The heads were nearly all lying in the same 
direction, southward, in some cases in contact with each other, and the 
other parts so intermingled and decomposed as to make it impossible to 
trace any one skeleton, or to determine to which one an individual bone 
belonged. Many of the small bones and the softer portions of the 
larger ones are entirely gone. The best-preserved skeleton, No. 3, was 
lying stretched out in a horizontal position, with the face upward, and 
was a few inches above the rest, and, of those which were piled in 
together, one was lying on its right side. 

The sand below, above, and around the bones presents the same uni- 
form appearance, from a yellowish-gray to a reddish-brown color, except 
that that immediately about them is usually a little darker ; and occa- 
sional irregular and uneven streaks of rather darker sand are found, 
as if some loads or parcels of the earth of which the, heap is formed had 
been partly of a dirtier surface-soil, and had been thrown scattering 
over the surface and then covered with cleaner sand. A few of the most 
southern mouuds,where the earth is gravelly, are composed of sand and 
gravel, showing that, as in the other cases, thej^ are built of the mate- 
rial nearest at hand. 

It would appear that the process of interment had been a very sim- 
ple one, viz, selecting a spot where the earth was loose, sandy, and 
easily removed ; scraping away the earth to the depth of a foot or two, 
then carelessly depositing a few bodies, or rather perhaps a few skele- 
tons, collected possibly from elevated scaffolds, trees, or other })ositions 
where the bodies had been previously placed; then replacing the sand 
which had been removed, and adding enough from the surrounding sur- 
face to raise a heap of such dimensions as the inclination to manual 
labor and the respect for the deceased would prompt. The position of 
the skeletons is a i^retty certain indication that the bodies were not in- 
terred one at a time, as that could not have been done without in each 
instance entirely uncovering those previously buried, the skulls being 
in some cases in contact with each other. 

In this mound no relics, such as weapons or implements, were found, 
except a very small fragment of pottery in the earth, about a foot from 



^.' 



58 



ETHNOLOGY. 



tlie surface, and an arrow-head of very peculiar form, which was lying 
among the bones. 

Fig. 2. 




In November, several members of the academy visited the locality 
for the purpose of further exploration. On this occasion three more 
mounds were opened under the direction of Mr. A. S. Tiffany, who spent 
the previous day in making preparatory excavations, so that considera- 
ble search could be made in a few hours. He opened the mounds 
marked 2, 3, and 4 on the plan. Nos. 2 and 3 were similar in all respects 
to No. 1. 

In No. 2 nothing was found except a few bones, the remains i:>robably 
of only two or three bodies, very much decomposed, and a few teeth, of 
which only the crown remained. In No. 3, at the depth of six feet from 
the surface, were found the skeletons of four adults, lying stretched out, 
face upward, two with heads toward the east and two toward the west. 
The four occupied a space of about four feet in width. Two children had 
also been buried there, perhaps at a later date, but their position could 
not be well ascertained. One of the skulls (skull No. 5) from this mound 
was obtained in a very perfect condition, except that most of the teeth 
are wanting. In this mound were discovered, lying immediately above 
the skeletons, several relics of considerable interest, viz, a plate of mica, 
about three by four inches and one-eighth of an inch thick, with several 
notches in the edges ; a small lump of galena, surface much carbonized, 
and the corners worn, apparently by handling; a dove-colored flint 
arrow-head, very finely wrought, sharp, and smooth, (No. 2 ;) several 
flakes of white flint; and a strangely-formed bone implement, charm, 
nasal ornament, or whatever it may have been, (No. 3.) It is a frag- 
ment of a marrow bone, four and a half inches long, and one and a 
quarter wide at the middle, tapering nearly to a point at the ends, one 
of which is more pointed than the other, and much curved edgewise. 
Close to the edge, at the convex side, at the widest part of the bone, 



PRATT ANTIQUITIES OF ILLINOIS. 359 

are four holes, about one-eighth of an inch in diameter, but differing 
slightly. They have the appearance of having been drilled with a tool 
not much, if at all, tapering in form, and with a square cutting-edge, 
which was not worked entirely through, as there remains in each hole, 
on the inner side, a little edge which is not quite cut away. Across the 
bone, near the larger end, are two rows of holes — Ave and six in a row — 
one-tenth of an inch or less in depth, drilled with some round-pointed 
instrument. One curved line is cut across, as shown in the figure. 
The article seems much worn by handling. What was its use, we can 
scarcely conjecture; and some Indians (Sacs and Foxes) to whom it has 
been shown, can give no clue. 

The mound numbered 5 on the plan is like the others in material and 
structure, except that it is much larger, being about sixty feet long, 
thirty feet wide, and seven feet high. In this mound an excavation 
was made in the middle, only about five feet square, which we hope to 
work out more thoroughly at another time. 

About two feet below the surface was found a much-decayed frag- 
ment of the " shin-bone" of some mammal, iiossibly the bison ; and a 
little deeper, two fragments of pottery, parts, apparently, of the same 
vessel, and bearing impressions on the outer surface of some kind of 
woven or matted fabric. At the depth of nine feet was discovered a 
large and remarkably well-preserved skeleton, almost entire, wanting 
only a few of the very small bones, fingers, and toes, and the more per- 
ishable portions of a few of the larger ones. 

The skull (No. 6) is in tolerably good condition, and contains the en- 
tire set of sound teeth. The pelvis was obtained almost perfect, which 
was the case in no other instance. This skeleton, also, was lying at 
full length, with the face upward and head to the east, in the direction 
of the transverse diameter of the mound. 

Immediately south of this was another skeleton, and over these some 
others, all in a less perfect state of preservation than the one first men- 
tioned, and the bones somewhat intermingled with it and each other. 
One was that of a child of ten or twelve years. Close to the skeletons, 
and immediately north of the first named, were a number of stones 
lying, whether by accident or design, in a very irregular row, probably 
accidental. Among the human bones was a piece of the lower jaw of 
the deer or elk, containing four molars, all well preserved. 

So far as our observations go no metallic articles of any kind are 
found there, though it is reported that some 5'ears since a copper kniCe 
was taken from one of the mounds. 

Many of the mounds have been opened and partially explored by cit- 
izens and visitors in search of curiosities, and of late such visits are 
more frequent than ever. That these structures were merely burial- 
places and nothing more, is evident from the fact that, ordinarily, there 
is in them no trace of floor or roof, and no charred wood or boues^ or other 
indications of fire. 



360 ETHNOLOGY. 

Some estimate of the original maximum height of these tumuli may 
be formed from the observation that sandy earth, such as that of which 
they are composed, will not remain iu ipositiou on a slope of more than 
40° from the horizontal ; they could not, therefore, have been higher, 
even if raised to a point at the apex, than two-JSfths of the width at the 
base ; and the very lirst rain or wind would reduce them considerably. 
As they are now, they would probably remain, with contour unchanged 
by the action of the elements, for a thousand years to come. 

In one of the largest mounds, ( W,) about twelve feet high, and stand- 
ing on the highest ground, opened some years since, was discovered an 
iuclosure of " dry wall," some ten feet square, containing a number of 
skeletons supposed to have been buried iu a sitting posture, with no in- 
dication of any covering or floor having ever been there, save the earth 
of which the whole mound was composed. A portion of this wall, which 
still remained exposed, we carefully removed for examination, and 
found it to be built of the fossiliferous limestone common in the neigh- 
borhood, brought probably from near the river-bank, a quarter of a mile 
distant and a hundred feet lower ; laid up with tolerable evenness on the 
inner side. It was about three feet high, two feet thick at the top, and 
three feet at the base, piled up loosely, the lower stones broad and flat, 
rather heavier than one man could well carry, and lying on the clean, 
j-ellowish sand. Some of the stones had been burned red previously to 
being placed in position. This inclosure was entirely at one side of the 
center of the mound, and nothing of interest was found in the other 
part. 

This region has long been occupied by the tribe of Indians known as 
the Sacs and Foxes, who came from the region of the Saint Lawrence 
over two hundred years ago, and remained until about the period of the 
Black Hawk war, about 1832. 

George L, Davenport, esq., of this city, who was born on the island 
of Eock Island, iu 1817, and was the first white child born in this sec- 
tion of the country, and who lias been intimately acquainted with the 
Indians for over fifty years, and speaks their language, informs us that 
the natives positively had no knowledge of these structures, and paid no 
attention whatever to them. They had a village or town in the imme- 
diate neighborhood of the mounds, though their principal town was 
near the site of the present city of Eock Island. 

It is, therefore, certain that the mounds presented much the same 
appearance many years ago as now, and that these Indians neither con- 
structed nor used them. 

No evidences of " intrusive burials" have, in any instance, been dis- 
covered, and without doubt the mounds have been as at present, and en- 
tirely undisturbed, for many centuries, until opened by recent explorers. 

We inclose herewith a diagram of the group of mounds, also drawings 
of the relics exhumed, and a series of photographs of all the well pre- 
served crania. 



PRATT AND FARQUH ARSON ANTIQUITIES OF ILLINOIS. 361 

We also have the pleasure of preseutiug an exhaustive report upon 
the crauia, by Dr. R. J. Farquharsou, a member of the Daveuport Acad- 
emy of Natural Sciences, including measurements, analyses, and care- 
ful comparison with skulls of other races of men, and with other well- 
authenticated mound-builders' skulls. 

We also inclose Mr. A. S. Tiffany's description of the locality, on Eock 
Island,where he discovered the skull which is represented by photograph 

:n^o. 8. 



A STUDY OF SKULLS AND LONG BONES FROM MOUNDS NEAR ALBANY, ILL. 

By R. J. Farquharson, M. D., of Davenport, Iowa. 

This lot of bones was obtained from mounds near Albany, III., by the 
Davenport Academy of Sciences. The topography, «S:;c., of these 
mounds is given in the preceding paper by Mr. Pratt, who conducted 
the explorations. 

In the first place, an attempt was made by a rude analysis to arrive 
a"; the probable age of these bones. A small part of the middle por- 
tion of one of the long bones was incinerated, with the following re- 
sult : Weight before incineration, thirty-eight grains; afterward, thirty 
grains ; loss, eight grains ; equal to 20 per cent. 

Mineral ma,tter. Animal matter. 

Fresh bone, (dry,) Berzelius 67 33 

Mound-builder's bone 79 21 

12 12 

Now, as the lightness, or diminished specific gravity of these bones, 
precludes the idea of an increase of the mineral matter, and also as we 
know that, in certain conditions of soil, an actual loss of mineral matter 
takes place, we may safely infer that a considerable loss of animal mat- 
ter has here taken i^lace; a loss even greater than what the above fig- 
ures would seem to indicate. 

But, unfortunately, these data will not afford even an approximate 
estimate as to the time since these bones were buried. 

" In an old Roman frontal bone dug up from Pompeii, Dr. Davy found 
35.5 animal parts, and G4.5 earthy ; and in the tooth of the mammoth 
30.5 animal, and G9.5 earthy." (Todd and Bowman's Anatomy, vol. 1, p. 
105.) 

Orfila, in his Exhumations Juridiques, (vol. 1, p. 350,) states that bones 
buried in the cemetery of the Innocents, Paris, over six hundred years, 
yielded, in analysis, 27 percent, of gelatin and 10 per cent, of fat ; while 
fresh ones yielded only 30 per cent, of gelatin, showing only a slight 
alteration. On the other hand, bones exhumed from the church-yard of 
Ste. Genevieve, Paris, after a burial of over seven hundred years, 
showed marked alteration, which he describes as follows : Very brittle, 



3G2 



ETHNOLOGY. 



of a purplish color ; remarkable both for the absence of animal matter 
and for the presence of the acid phosphate of lime. Unfortunately, no 
analysis of these changed bones is given. 

Table No. 1. — The plan of this table is taken from Foster's work on 
the prehistoric races of the United States, and the letters at the heads 
of the columns refer to the same measurements. Four other columns are, 
however, added, the first giving the capacities in cubic inches ; an im- 
portant point omitted by Foster, probably from the Iragmentary nature 
of the skulls in his possession. The second and third added columns 
give the distance of the occipital protuberance from the posterior mar- 
gin of the forainen mmjnum and the ratio of this distance to the long 
diameter of the skull. This is an important characteristic of the mound- 
builder race, according to J)r. Wyman. 

The fourth and last column gives the major and minor axes of thd 
foramen magnum in millimeters. 

Table No. 1. 





Conditiou. 


*A 


*B 


*C 


*D 


*E 


*F 


1 

o 

. ■« 
p. 


t3 


o 

ii 

.2 3 

r 


_c 


Eace of skull. 


1 

a 








Imperfect 
Perfect . . . 

...do 

Imperfect 
Perfect . . . 
Imperfect 

Perfect . . . 

....do 

....do 


21.5 
19 

19.5 
19 

20 
20 


19 

12 

11.5 

11 

11.5 

12.5 


10 
10 

9 

8 

9.5 


4.1 

4. 125 

3.5 

3.5 

3.9 

4.5 


8 

6.5 

6.6 

6 

6.6 

6.5 


5 

5.5 

5.5 

6 

5.6 


4.8 

5.1 

5.1 

5.6 

5 

6 


72.75 
72. 75 
62. 35 








11. Uouiul-b\uliler, 2 

III. Mouiiil-builder, 3 

IV. >IoinHlbnilil('r, 4 


2 
2.3 


0.307 
0.348 


39x28 
39x32 


V. MoiiiHl-builder, 5 
VI. Aloiiiul-buiUler, 6 


81.40 


2.4 


0.363 


36x32 












VII. Sioux 1 


20.5 
21 
20 • 


12.5 

12 

11.5 


10 

10.5 
9 


3.5 

4 

3 


7.1 
7.125 

7 


5.1 
5.5 

4.8 


5.1 
5.1 
5. 125 


80.53 
7(). 20 
76. 20 


1.9 
2.2 
2. 1 


0.267 
0. 310 
0.300 


42 X 35 


VIII. Sioux2 

IX. Sionx 3 


40x31 
38 X 35 








X. Aveiase itionnd-builder 


19.83 
20. 50 


11.7 

12 


9.3 

9.8 


3.93 
3.50 


6.7 
7.03 


.5.6 
5.1 


5.1 
5.1 


72. 31 
77. 64 


2.2 
2.0 


0. 328 
0.284 


*. 1122 
*. 1357 







* Square millimeters. 

REMARKS. 

I. Capacity approximate, from imperfection. Ratio of short and long diameters, 0.60 to 0.625. 
II. Kiitio of short and long diameters, 0.846 to 0.784. 

III. Skull, tliick and heavy, froip former disease. Ratio of short and long diameters, 0.833 to 0.772. 

IV. Ratio of sliort and long diaiuetevs, 1 to 0.933. 

V. Aged — molars all gone and alveoli absorbed. Ratio of short and long diameters, 0.848 to 0.757. 

VI. Ratio of short and long diaiiieters, 0.!)23 to 0.923. 

VII. Ratio of short and long diaiiu^ters, 0.718 to 0.718. 

VIII. Ratio of short and long dianieteis, 0.771 to 0.715. 

IX. Ratio of short and louu diameters, 0.685 to 0.732. 

X. Ratio of short and long diameters, 0.836 to 0.761. 

XI. Ratio of short and long diameters, 0.725 to 0.725. 

*A. The horizontal circumference in the plane of a lino joining the glabella with the occipital pro- 
tuberance. 

■•B. The longitudinal arc from the nasal depression along the middle line of the skull to the occipital 
tuberosity. 

•(". From the level of the glabello-occipital line on each side, across the middle of the sagittal suture 
to the same point on the opposite side. 

'1). The vertical height from the glabello-occipitalliue. 

*E. The extreme longitudinal measurement. 

*F. The extreme transverse measurement. 

Table No. 2. — In this table an attempt is made (by means of another 
table of the comparative lengths of the various long bones in a series 
of skeletons, given in Orfila's Exhumations Juridiques) to arrive at 



FARQUHARSON AND TIFFANY ANTIQUITIES OF ILLINOIS. oG3 

some idea of the stature of the inound-buiklers, but the couclusions are 
very imperfect, perhaps necessarily so. Enough was learned, however, 
to safely warrant the conclusion that none of the bones examined be- 
longed to an individual much, if any, higher than six feet, thus doing 
away with the assumption, made by some persons at the time of the 
exhumation, that some of the mound-builders were giants. 

Table No. 2. — Stature estimated from length of hones. 



Eace. 


Bone. 


a 

as 

(0 

g 


a 

a « 


1 
a a 
"^ l-t 
aj o 

a 


-2.9 
til 
? a 

1— ® 

rt CO a» 

.a « 


1! 
§1 


Remarks. 


Mound-builder, 1. 

Mound-builder, 2. 
Sioux 

Mound-builder, 1 . 
Mound-builder 2. 


Femur 

....do 

...do 

Tibia 

....do 


46 

43J 

45 

32 


30 

30 
33 
33 
(2)38 
36 


29 

28 
29 
22 
23 
28 
(3) 


1.77. 

1.71 
1.67 
1.49 


5.11 

5.09 
5.07 
5.00 


Keck of femur long and not 
oblique. 

Belongs to Sioux skull, No. 2. 

A fragment, upper half. 
Belongs to Sioux skull, No. 2. 




do 


38 
33 
34 
33 
31 
33 


1.69 
1.80 
1.83 

1.80 
1.67 
1.80 


5.08 
6.00 
1). 02 
6.00 
5.07 
6.00 


Mound-builder, 1. 


Humerus . 

...do 

....do .... 

....do 

do 


Mound-builder, 3. 
Mound-builder, 4. 




(3) 








(3) 


Belongs to Sioux skull, No. 2. 







1. The total length of the body is made out by adding two inches to that of the skeleton. 

2. These diameters, taken near the middle of the length of the tibia, and at its most prominent part, 
show its flatness and the comparative sharpness of the shin-bones. 

3. From an average of five skeletons in the table having a humerus measuring 33 centimeters. Here 
it may be remarked that in the French table there is a greater disparity in the height of the skeleton, 
in regard to the humerus, than either to the femur or tibia, one skeleton of 1.86 meters having a humerus 
of only 33 centimeters. 

The skulls and long bones of the modern Indians used in the com- 
parative measurements in these tables, were those of male Sioux Indi- 
ans from Minnesota, who died in this vicinity, while in captivity on ac- 
count of their complicity with the massacre in that State, so that there 
can be no doubt of their identity. 

It only remains to remark, in conclusion, that an unusual number of 
perfect sets of teeth were found in the mounds examined. These teeth 
are invariably without any signs of decay, of almost flinty hardness, 
and very much worn away, apparently from the attrition of very hard 
particles in the food, probably the siliceous outer coats of some kind of 
grain or seeds. 



THE SHELL-BED SKULL. 

By A. S. Tiffany, of Davenport, Iowa. 

On the Eock Island arsenal-grounds, near the western extremity of 
the island, there had been an excavation about three hundred feet long 
and eight feet deep. At a depth of three feet from the top there was a 
deposit of shells, mostly nnios, but including melantho snbsolUhi, and 
two or more species of helix. This shell-bed at this exposure varies 
from six to sixteen inches thick. 



364 ETHNOLOGY. 

lu this deposit the skull and bones belonging to one individual were 
found; all the covering was an aqueous sediment. Deposited with 
and above the shells are lime, gravel, and sand, the material becoming 
finer toward the top, the last foot being fine alluvium and vegetable- 
mold. The sedimentary lines were perfect and unbroken, and the ex- 
cavation had made the means of observation all that could be desired. 

It was visited by many members of our academy, and by Prof. 
Alexander Winchell, while some of the bones were in place ; and all 
agree that the covering to this pre-historic man was put on by sedimen- 
tary deposit. 

Accurate levelings prove the top of this deposit to be eighteen feet 
above the highest water known since Fort Armstrong was established 
on the Island. 



ANTIQUITIES OF XORTHERJi OHIO. 

By Geo. W. Hill, M. D., of Ashland, Ohio. 

In the spring of 1872, Mr. S. W. Briggs, a farmer of Sullivan Town- 
ship, Ashland County, while plowing an old "cat-swamp" or sloughy 
came upon a bed or nest of Indian fliut-implements about eighteen inches 
beneath the surface. His attention was arrested by a grating sound be- 
neath the plow, and on examination fo'j.nd two or three peculiarly-shaped 
arrow-heads or flint cutting-points. Hastening to his house, he pro- 
cured a shovel and mattock, and proceeded to unearth the deposit. On 
carefully removing the surrounding soil — rich black mold — he found a 
keg-like vessel of red-elm ( JJlmus rubra) bark, about three-fourths of an 
inch in thickness, some ten or twelve in diameter, and about thirteen 
in height. The vessel was a section of the bark, which had been removed 
from the tree by cutting or notching around the body and then peeliug it 
off. It would hold something over one peck. It was in a tolerable state 
of preservation. It contained two hundred and one flint-implements, 
neatly and symmetrically finished, and a number of fragments which 
Lad not been dressed. The bottom of the nest was about two feet 
below the surface. About four feet south of the vessel his plow struck 
a forked oak-stake, the double end being deep in the mold, and also 
another stake, of the same timber, about four feet east of the deposit, 
driven deeply into the loam. The lower ends of the stakes were over 
three feet deep, the parts above the water and' ground having decayed 
were wanting. In digging down, the forks were found to be beneath ■ 
the surface soil and quite sound. There was also a streak of yellow sand 
about ten inches wide, two or three deep, and eight or ten feet long, run- 
ning in a northeastern direction from the deposit, which could have 
been plainly seen when the water stood over the slough. This sand is 
found on the banks of Black River, about one and a half miles distant. 
The slough was drained some ten years since,, and has been once or 



HILL ANTIQUITIES OF OHIO. 3G5 

twice superficially plowed. The sand-streak was evidently put there to 
mark the precise point of the deposit. 

Sixty years ago, when the first of the pioneers began to settle in the 
central parts of Ashland County, the northern section was a favorite 
resort of the Delawares and Wyandots as a hunting-ground. About 
twenty-five rods southwest of the slough are the remains of an Indian 
village or camping-ground. Floors of broken bowlders and large peb- 
bles were made by driving the pieces into the ground until a smooth 
surface was obtained. About one hundred rods in a northeastern 
direction from the deposit is another "cat-swamp" or slough, somewhat 
smaller than the first, which will probably, upon examination, be found 
to contain other deposits. A few rods east of this were also found two 
stone floors, constructed of the same materials and in the same manner 
as th-e other. They were twelve or fifteen feet in circuit each, and 
had to be dug up before the ground could be plowed. About one mile 
southeast of this ancient village was a salt-spring, which was a common 
resort for the Indians and wild animals. Many relics have been dug 
and i^lowed up in its vicinity, among which was a large pair of elk- 
horns. Above this, on the flat, near the head branch of Black Kiver, 
were several extensive beaver-dams. They were visible for many years 
after the settlement of that region. 

In 1755-'56, James Smith, when a captive among the Wyandots and 
Delawares, on his way to the Cauesadooharie, in company with his 
adopted brother, Tontileaugo, passed this locality. He had traversed 
the Jerome Fork of Mohican to its source, about three miles from the 
head of the Cauesadooharie, or Black Eiver, and over the portage or 
divide between the streams running south to the Gulf of jNIexico and 
north to Lake Erie. At that time there was a large Wyandot village 
near the falls, not a great distance from the present site of Elyria, in 
Lorain County. The Black Eiver and its sources long furnished a hunt- 
ing-resort for the Ohio tribes, and the locality where these implements 
were found was often a great encampment for the Indians. 

There is a striking resemblance to each other in the implements 
found by Mr. Briggs. They are generally leaf or pear shaped. They 
are about three-eighths of an inch in thickness. The width of the largest 
is two and three-quarter inches, and its length three and one-quarter 
inches. The next largest is two and one-quarter inches wide, and four 
inches long, running to a sharp point. They are all quite sharp around 
the edge, and neatly and symmetrically chipped, and would answer for 
cutting- tools. 

It is difficult to determine their use. They certainly were not used as 
arrow-heads, being destitute of nicks to attach them to the shaft. They 
are too small for agricultural instruments. They could not be used for 
preparing dug-out canoes, being sharp around their edges, and too fragile. 
They may have been used for skinning and cutting the flesh of animals. 
Possibly they were used in dressing deer-skins. The entire lot was new. 



3G6 ETHNOLOGY. 

and looked as if they had been finished just prior to the deposit. So 
far as my observation extends, no flints of similar character have been 
found on the surface in this part of Ohio. 

The material out of which these instruments were constructed is 
found in abundance about eighty miles south of the Black Eiver, and 
is known as the " Flint Eidge," in Licking County, and consists, after 
exposure, of a reddish, mottled flint, and, when fresh from the quarry, 
of a bluish, or nearly black, color. The reddish tint may have origi- 
nated from their burial beneath the bog or marsh water. When a boy, 
some thirty-five years since, I resided a short distance south of the main 
ridge, in Licking County. On the farm where I lived there had evi- 
dently been large numbers of arrow-heads manufactured, judging from 
the piles of fragments, broken arrows, and pieces of lances found on the 
surface. Many of these were composed of a bluish limestone, found in 
and north of the ridge, where numerous pits yet remain. When first 
quarried, the stone splits easily, and is soft, but, on exposure to the air 
and sun, changes color, and becomes extremely hard. There is also a 
flint, orhornstoue, found on or near the surface in that locality, which 
is of a dark color, sometimes streaked or mottled with white, from which 
large numbers of arrows have been manufactured, and are found scat- 
tered all over Ohio. 

These implements were i^robably made by the earlier Indians of 
Ohio. It is not unlikely that they were carried there for immediate 
use. Their form, sharpness of fracture, and shape are so symmetrical 
and complete, that we are led to conclude they are finished. If they had 
been intended for further manipulation, their finish would have been 
less perfect. When Smith was on this stream in 1755, bark canoes 
were exclusively used by the Wyandots and Delawares. 

Some of the spear-heads are very rare. Five were picked up neai* 
Ashland. I call them spear-heads, though it is uncertain for what pur- 
pose they were used. They are generally well finished, and have been 
used. Some of them are of an unknown flint. I have never seen the 
blueish kind in the "Flint Ridge" material. The first is intensely black; 
the second, of a brownish black ; the third, on being fractured, presents 
a blue color ; the fourth is a drab, or sort of dirty white, and is very 
delicate in structure, and extremely sharp; the fifth, on being fractured, 
exhibits a blue color, and is peculiar in shape. 

A singular instrument was picked up by Mr. Briggs in the neighbor- 
hood of the nest of flint-implements. It is made out of a sort of green- 
ish-gray stone, variegated. It possesses a high polish, and the material 
is quite hard. A hole in the center is neatly drilled. It may have been 
suspended from the neck as an ornament. 



ETHNOLOGY. 367 



THE AGE OF STOXE, AlfD THE TROGLODYTES OF BRECKINRIDGE COUNTY, 

KENTUCKY. 

By R. S. Eobertsox, op Fort WxVynEj Ind, 

The remains of the stone-age are abundant on both sides of the Ohio 
Itiver, proving that its shores were occupied by a very large population 
long anterior to tlie advent of the whites. 

My attention having been attracted to reports of human remains found 
in a cavern or rock-shelter near Hardinsburgh, Ky., I visited the locality 
May 12, 1874, but was not early enough to forestall the vandalism nearh' 
always displayed when such remains are discovered, and by which raanj- 
valuable relics are destroyed, or scattered and lost. Nearly everything 
of value to the ethnologist had been dug out and carelessly destroyed, 
and out of thirty or more human skeletons of all sizes, from infants to 
adults, exhumed, I was informed that only one skull had been preserved, 
but as that is in the possession of Prof. IST. S. Shaler, State geologist of 
Kentucky, we may expect to hear something of its characteristics. 

Hardinsburgh, the county-seat of Breckinridge County, is eleven miles 
southeast of Cloverport, and in a hilly, broken country. About a mile 
and a half northeast of the town is a range of high hills, at the base of 
which runs Hardin's Creek, now nearly dry. These hills are capped by 
high limestone ledges, cut through in past ages by some powerful erosive 
agency, leaving the general course of the cliffs on an east and west line, 
but cut by lateral fissures and valleys. The rock has been so eroded as 
to leave overhanging shelters at several points, some of which are of 
considerable size. One, particularly, seems to have been occupied by 
man for a long period, and when it ceased to be used as a habitation, 
became the sepulchre of the remnant of its occupants, who were probably 
massacred and left in the ashes of their home, on the final extinction 
of their tribe. The cavern is open toward the south, the overhanging 
roof protecting the space below from any exposure to the elements from 
above, while immense masses of fallen rock make a wall from ten to twelve 
feet high, directly in front, between which and the rear wall of the cav- 
ern the deposit containing human remains was found. This deposit 
consists almost entirely of wood-ashes, so dry that clouds of dust arose 
while working in them, and we sank nearly to the knees at every step. 
The deposit is about eight by fifteen feet superficial measure, and was 
about seven feet in depth. In it, without order, were found thirty 
or more human skeletons, nearly all with a flat stone laid upon their 
heads. There were infants and adults promiscuously buried at various 
depths in the ashes, and at the bottom, on a layer of broken stones, some 
charred human remains were found. The bones had been thrown out 
and broken, so that none remained worthy of preservation : but fiom a 
description of the skulls found, I should think they were of a marked 
dolicho-cephalic type, with flat, receding foreheads. 



368 ETHNOLOGY. 

Mingled with these remains many flint and other stone implements 
and weapons were found, with a few fragments of rade pottery, such as 
is commonly met with all over the country. I could learn of no orna- 
ments, except some shells of the common muscle, perforated for suspen- 
sion. Two perforated stones, of the kind supposed to be weaving-shut- 
tles or thread-gauges, had been found, but carried away. 

The polished and drilled ornamental stones found frequently in other 
localities seemed to be entirely absent here, indicating that these cave- 
dwellers had not advanced beyond the strictly useful arts. I found in the 
ashes a number of arrow-heads, scrapers, and knives of dark flint, a stone 
hatchet, and a buckhorn handle for a poinard or knife, similar to the 
handles of some modern hunting-knives. These were all fouud in the 
ashes which had not been disturbed. Quantities of flint-chippings lie 
around, and a stone, on the surface of which are fourteen small circular 
depressions, disposed in two nearly i)arallel rows. 

To the left of this large shelter, and under the continuation of the 
same roof, is another on a high shelf of rock, reached by climbing on the 
fallen rocks which form the front wall. It is large, but does not afford 
standing-room in more than half its area, but has been used, perhaps, as 
a sleeping-apartment, as the rocks by which you reach it are worn 
smooth. 

Immediately in front is a steep descent of about one hundred and 
fifty feet to a brook, now dry, and, at a corresponding elevation on the 
opposite side, is another high cliff, perpendicular on its northern and 
overhanging on its southern face. Here many chippiugs of flint, some 
arrow-heads, and a flint knife were found, as if it had been used, also, 
either as a dwelling or workshop. It is not so large or so well shel- 
tered as the other. My guide informed me of several other rock-shelters 
and of some stone-walled graves in the vicinity, which I had not time to 
visit. Although the flint used is easily worked, the articles found were 
all of ruder workmanship than those found at many other places. 

In the road just outside of the town of Hardinsburgh I noticed a num- 
ber of characters and figures cut in the surface of the flat rocks here 
exposed ; some of them are partially obliterated by travel, but they 
still occupy a large space. As there are many smooth rock-surfa^ies 
exposed in the vicinity, and none other exhibited these marks, I 
had no hesitation in considering them to be the work of man, and 
afterward learned that it was called " Indian Eock." The tan, T, is fre- 
quently seen, while other marks are in the form of the Greek cross, 
with shorter arms above than below. Others, and these the most 
numerous, were a combination of the latter with other lines, X X? 
and some other characters I cannot now describe, having lost the draw- 
ing I made at the time. 

At Cloverport I spent some time on the river-bank searching for 
remains, and was rewarded by finding a number of flint weapons with 
many chips or flakes, and, on the boys of the neighborhood becoming 



ETHNOLOGY. 369 

aware of tbe objects of search, they brought me large numbers, mauy 
of them of iuteresting shape and workmauship. The bank here is a 
long, gravelly slope up from the water, above which are successive 
steps or benches of clay, bounded by a perpendicular wall of clay. It 
is on the uppermost bench of clay that nearly all tbe specimens, fin- 
ished and unfinished, and the chippings, are found. Those found below 
this point invariably appeared to have been washed down. 

The boys assured me that they could take me to a point across on 
the Indiana shore where I could get a wheelbarrow-load, but as I had 
neither time nor wheelbarrow, I was forced to forego the proposed visit. 

I have no doubt that thousands of specimens could be obtained by a 
visit to the landing-places on both sides of the river between Louisville 
and Evausville. 

One specimen shown me, but which the owner refused to part with 
on account of some superstitious regard, considering it in the nature of 
a charm, was sixteen inches long and five broad, in shape nearly like a 
willow-leaf. It was a white, cherty limestone. I heard of a large stone 
l>ipe found two years ago, but after an active search where last seen no 
trace could be found of it. The children had been allowed to use it for 
a plaything, and it had thus been lost. 

Returning to Louisville, during a stroll of perhaps a mile on the river- 
bank below the cement-works, and upon the same clay bench, I found 
several complete and many broken specimens of worked flints, and. 
this where mauy people pass and repass every day. 

On the whole, I conclude that the men of the stone-age who occupied 
the shores of the Ohio and dwelt in the caverns and rock-shelters of 
the interior, had not advanced to that stage of the arts which led men 
to give a beautiful finish to their weapons and to carve and perforate 
stones for ornament or for badges of authority, like the prehistoric 
men of many other localities, but contented themselves with such imr 
plements and weapons as the necessities of their wild life required, 
without spending much time in giving artistic touches to their manu- 
factured articles. 



ANTIQUITIES OF ISLE ROYALE, LAKE SUPEIIIOR. 

By a. C. Davis, of Detroit, Mich. 

I send you three photographic views of a mass of copper found in 
clearing some ancient mine-pits on Isle Eoyale, Lake Superior. The 
mass was found in the bottom of a pit sixteen and a half feet deep, and 
was completely detached from the surrounding rocks. All the wings 
have been beaten ofi" by the ancient miner with his stone hammers — evi- 
dences of which can be seen ail over its upper surface. The section it 
was taken from is 27, 66 north, range 35 west. The belt of rock in 

which it was found is of a sedimentary character, highly metamorphosed, 
24 s 



< yj ETHNOLOGY. 

from twenty to forty feet wide, and for a distance of two and a half 
miles has been completely worked over by the ancient miner. I have 
been mining for the last twenty-five years on Lake Superior, but I have 
never seen anything to compare ^vith this locality for ancient work. 

I am confident that,, when this district is thoroughly mined, discov- 
eries will be made throwing more light than we now have on the char- 
acter of the people who did this work. 

In the depression in the outlying trap was found clean lake sand, 
and the rock thrown out of the pit first was thrown on the sand. There 
was no sign of vegetable mold between the rock and sand, but over all 
there was three and a half feet of made soil or decomposed vegetable 
matter. 

In the pit there are tons of stone and stone-hammers, and a large 
quantity of ashes and charcoal. 

In one I opened on a transverse vein on the same property, I found 
the scales of white-fish. At this pit the ancient miner had used large 
granite bowlders to hold up the hanging ground. These bowlders would 
weigh from 300 to 400 pounds, and were put in where the modern miner 
would place timber, to secure the ground. Nearly all the brands and tim- 
ber we found in the pits were roots and stumps. This, with the fact of 
their using these large stones for timber, leads me to think that the an- 
cient miners had used up all the timber in their reach, and consequently 
could not prosecute mining further. 

There is another peculiarity in the hammers found in these mines — I 
only found one that was grooved, while on the south shore of the lake 

1 never saw a stone-hammer that was not grooved. 



ANTIQUITIES OF YAZOO COl'XTT, MISSISSIPPI. 

By J. W. C. Smith, of Benton, Miss. 

There is a mound on the Yazoo River, twenty miles below Satartia, 
worthy of note. It is situated at the foot of a tall bluff, and near the 
river. At the base it is, perhaps, one hundred and fifty or tw-o hundred 
feet in diameter, fifty feet high, and flat on top; some fifty or sixty feet 
across. It evidently is the burial-place of some noted chief, and must 
have required months to build it, and the nearness to a high bluff pre- 
cludes the idea of its having been built to escape from water. There 
are several smaller mounds in the neighborhood. Perhaps some sci- 
entist at Vicksburgh will explore it for you on application. 

Near Carthage, in Leake County, Mississippi, there is a small branch 
in which are many articles resembling petrified terrapin or tortoise 
heads ; and where at one time was found here the genital organs of a 
man, also in stone. 



ETHNOLOGY. O • 1 

ANTIQUITIES OF TENNESSEE. 

By Dr. Daniel F. Wuight, of Clauksville, Tenn. 

The locality iu which the relics sent to the Smithsonian Institution 
have been collected, has been known as the "Indian grave-yard" as far 
back as any of the present inhabitants can remember, and has been 
more or less noticed according to the condition of the superincumbent 
soil as affected by successive inundations of the Cumberland. Thus, for 
many years i)rior to the present date, the graves from which these relics 
have been taken have been buried some eight or ten feet deep by the 
fluvial deposit, and have been forgotten by the present generation ; but 
since the inundation of last spring, through some change in the current, 
the receding waters have produced a contrary effect, and washed the 
graves completely bare, leaving the skeletons only covered with the stone 
slabs placed over them at the time of burial. The location is about fifty 
yards from the left bank of the river, and about three miles above Clarks^ 
ville. 

The following considerations will, I think, be deemed conclusive as; 
evidences of its having been a permanent and rather populous settle- 
ment of some tribe : 

1st. TJie nature of the graves. — These are elaborately constructed. It 
is impossible to say how deep they were at the time of excavation, on: 
account of the shifting character of the soil above described ; but every 
grave has a slab of shale-stone at the bottom ; upon this the body lies,, 
and additional slabs are placed at the head and feet, and on each side,, 
all rising to the same level, which is rather more than high enough to. 
cover the body. Finallj", on the top of the inclosure so formed a large' 
horizontal slab is placed, completely covering the whole; the earth is 
then thrown in, and the body thus left inclosed not only in a well-pro- 
tected grave, but iu a complete stone cofifin. In one place (and only one). 
a peculiar arrangement of the graves is noticed. Five or six graves 
are so placed together that all the heads are nearly in contact, while 
the feet radiate outward so as to mark out the circumference of a cir- 
cle something over twelve feet in diameter. On the whole, I suppose 
that more than forty skeletons, each in its separate grave, have been, 
taken up since tlie last overflow. 

2d. The evidences of manufactures hahitually,folloiced. — These are flint, 
weapons and implements and pottery. Where the greater part of the- 
flint-implements were found innumerable chips and flakes of flint were 
also observed, such as are struck off' in the manufacture of flint articles; 
these are found in great abundance. In reference to the potter^-, still 
stronger evidence of its being manufactured on the spot was dis- 
covered. We found an excavation of a circular form about six or 
eight feet in diameter, and four or five feet deep, which had been 
loosely filled with sand that was easily removed ; and in shoveling it 



372 ETHNOLOGY. 

out, there were fouucl mixed with it in great abundauce fragments 
of pottery, a quantity of charcoal, many charred and half-burned 
pieces of bark which had passed through several stages of combus- 
tion, some of them being in part entirely unaltered by the fire ; and, 
above all, sev^eral large lumps of unworked clay, partially hardened by 
fire. The neighbors inform me that this clay must have been brought 
from a considerable distance, as none like it, and, indeed, no clay at all, 
is found within many miles of this place. In the specimens of pottery 
sent, I would call your attention to the peculiar markings on the con- 
cave surfaces of most of it. 1 at first supposed that these were made by 
some artificial process for decorative purposes, though it seemed strange 
to j)lace decorations inside the objects; but a neighboring gentleman 
called my attention to the exact resemblance these markings bore to the 
corrugations on beech-bark, and I was led to the conclusion that the 
pottery had been molded around an interior core constructed of beech- 
bark. I think there is no doubt but that the excavation I have de- 
scribed was an oven or kiln for baking the pottery. 

3d. The presence of infant skeletons in great number, buried with 
the same elaboration in all its details as above described in the case of 
the adult sepulchre. Some fragments of cranial bones from these are in- 
closed in package No. 7. The undeveloped and imperfectly ossified con- 
dition of the infant cranium renders it improbable that entire infant- 
crania will be discovered ; which is the more to be regretted as it would 
be interesting to observe the bones in the early stage of the flattening 
process, which seems to have been customary in this tribe. 

To sum up this part of my view, then : The elaborate and substantial 
character and large number of the graves, the evidences of arrange- 
ment for the manufacture of stone implements and pottery, and the 
presence of a considerable number of infant skeletons, all carefully buried, 
satisfy me that this burial-place was an appendage to some permanently- 
occupied Indian village. 

But, when ? There are some considerations which seem to throw us 
back upon prehistoric times for an answer — that is, what are to us Amer- 
icans prehistoric times. 

In Europe, these flint-weapons would carry us back to the mysterious 
nationalities which occupied the site of Troy before the Troy of Priam 
and Hector existed, or to those unknown tribes which lived in Hebron 
before the seed of Abraham had germinated in Palestine. With us, 
prehistoric times come down to a much more recent period. Anything 
l)revious to the permanent occupation of a region by the European races 
is with us prehistoric, and west of the Kocky Mountains there are tribes 
still in the neolithic stage of development, using just such flint arrow- 
heads and hatchets as I send you, to-day. 

The evidences that, relatively to the Boones and Donelsons and Eob- 
ertsons who first settled these regions, the remains now under discus- 
sion are prehistoric, are as follows : 



ETHNOLOGY. 373 

First. I baveliad conversatious with very old settlers — persous whose 
recoUectious extend back fifty aud eveu sixty years, and they report that 
no Indian village existed in that locality or anywhere near Clarksville ; 
aud not only so, bat they speak of conversations with the Indians, who, 
in their childhood, frequently came here on hunting-expeditions, aud 
that none of them knew of any tribe or had any tradition of any who 
ever had any permanent residence either near this burial-place or in the 
region at all ; it was never within their knowledge anything but a hunt- 
ing-ground. 

Secondly. In his first visit to Kentucky, Daniel Boone spent a whole 
winter encamped near the mouth of Red River, (a small aflluent of 
the Cumberland ;) in other words, on what is now the site of Clarks- 
ville ; and that during that winter he did not see a single Indian, the 
country being only visited for hunting-purposes in summer-time. 

This last statement I have on the authority of my friend. Professor 
Stewart, well known to your Institution. I have no means of verifying 
it by documents, though in Washington you have, I suppose, the means 
of doing so in the National Library. 

Supposing, then, that I have rightly interpreted the facts so far before 
us, we are thrown back on all prehistoric times for the period of our vil- 
lage's existence, and have no means of determining whether it dates 
before or after the discovery of the American continents by the Euro- 
pean races. 

The small package, ]SIo. 8, contains an invaluable relic in reference 
to our chronological difficulty. On examination you will find it to be 
a leaden bullet, completely covered with a bony accretion. This was 
found in close contact with the scapula of one of the exhumed skeletons. 
The manner in which it is enveloped with bony matters convinces me that 
it was lodged in the shoulder long before the Indian's death, and carried 
there for years. This proves that the Indians in question had relations, 
hostile at least, if not more intimate, with persous possessing tire-arms, 
aud so brings down the antiquity of our village to a date subsequent to 
the appearance of the European races in the valley of the Mississippi. 

The closest estimate, then, we can make of the period when the vil- 
lage existed from which these relics are derived, is that it was prior 
to the permanent settlement of this portion of the basin of the Cumber- 
land, aud subsequent to the first visit of European races, which still 
leaves us a range open to conjecture extending from the middle of the 
seventeenth ceutury to, say, the time of the revolutionary war— a rauge 
of from one hundred and twenty-five to one hundred and fifty years. 

This much premised, I would call your attention to some matters of 
detail iu the relics to which this paper refers. 

Opening the packages Nos. 4 and 5, 1 think you will be struck by a great 
diversity in the workmanship of the diftereut articles. Thus, most of 
them are as roughly chipped out of the original flint as anything we 
know of in the rudest paleolithic times, and others are shaped with 



374 ETHNOLOGY. 

some artistic skill to a predetermined form. Give your special attention 
to one article in package No. 5, wrapped in a separate piece of newspa- 
per — probably the blade of a tomahawk. You will observe that it is 
ground down to a preconceived shape with a precision and finish which 
would do credit to a modern lapidary. I have also given a separate 
euveloi)e to a curious implement made of a thin lamina of flint, in pack- 
age No. 4. T am informed by persons acquainted with present Indian 
usages, that au exactly similar implement is now employed to scrape 
clean the inner surface of raw hiiles, prior to curing them for use. 

Now, a few words about the three crania. Those in the packages 1 
aud 2 present the ordinary type of the Indian skull ; narrow, with a 
low facial angle, and with the prognathous character very strongly 
marked in the facial bones — these characteristics being most pronounced 
in No. 2, But No. 3 rather puzzles me. The American Indian type is 
here much less pronounced, the facial angle higher, and the prognathous 
tyi>e scarcely marked at all. In all respects it seems to approximate the 
Caucasian type. You will also observe that the process of artificial 
flattening, so common among Indian tribes, has been applied to Nos. 1 
and 2 with complete success, the flattening of the occiput being so great 
as to render the plane extending from the occipital condyles to the ver- 
tex absolutely vertical. 

Now, on No. 3 this process has been very incompletely effected, having 
succeeded not at all on one side, and only imperfectly on the other. 

If I knew more than I do of the tribe whose remains we are studying, 
I think I should venture upon the conjecture that No. 3 is the cranium 
of a half-breed, which would imply a still more intimate association 
with the white race than that short and sharp interview suggested by 
the impacted bullet. 

Such as they are, however, the foregoing remarks are submitted to 
your riper judgment; they have been considerably longer than I antici- 
pated when I commenced them, but I think that some interesting 
problems are suggested by the relics, and could not resist the tempta- 
tion of attempting a solution. 

I should remark that, although a large number of entire skeletons 
was exhumed, I did not see much to be gained by sending you anything 
beyond the crania. The only thing really noticeable about them was 
their great thickness, especially that of the maxillaries and the bones 
of the extremities ; some of the femurs, though evidently not those of 
tall men, would, in bulk and weight, largely surpass those of any white 
man I have seen. 

I forgot to state that the crania Nos. I and 2 are presented by Dr. W. 
T. McEeynolds, of this place, who had obtained possession of them be- 
fore uiy exploration. 



ETHNOLOGY. 375 

ANTIQUITIES OF BLOUNT COUNTY, TENNESSEE. 

By Miss Annie E. Law, of Hoixister, Cal. 

The relics sent were all fouud in the vicinity of a large mound in 
Chilliowee Valley, on the banks of the Little Tennessee Iviver, Blount 
County, Tennessee, except the beads and axes, which were found on 
Tellico Eiver, Monroe County, Tennessee. The mound in Chilhowee 
Valley was pa,rtially washed away during a, high tide. It contained 
seventeen skeletons buried in a sitting posture, surrounded by stone 
slabs. The mound was some twenty-five feet in diameter, and the 
graves were in three tiers. With each had been buried wiiter-jugs of 
crumbling pottery, beads, and stone implements. These had been car- 
ried off bj^ relic-hunters before I was there. Those I got were iilowed 
up afterward from sand-beds in the bottom-lands, where the strong 
current had carried them. 



ANTIQUITIES OF ORLEANS COUNTY, NEWYORK. 
By FiiANK H. CuGHiNG, OF Medina, N. Y. 

In the town of Shelby, Orleans County, New York, about three miles 
southwest from the village of Medina, are the remaiHs of one of the most 
interesting ancient earthworks in the State.* This work is situated 
at the summit of a slight and not abrupt elevation. It consists of two 
mural embankments, which are now about two feet in height parallel, 
and twelve feet distant from each other. They describe almost an ex- 
act circle, having a diameter of four hundred and thirty feet and an 
area of three and one-third acres. Two fences upon original " section- 
lines," running, one north and south, the other east and west, divide thin 
inclosure into four nearly equal parts or quadrants. Those portions of 
the work included in the northeastern and south western quadrants have 
for many years been under cultivation, and the embankments are nearly 
obliterated. The northwestern and southeastern portions are still cov- 
ered with forest-trees. In these portions the walls are interrupted only 
by two sally-ports or openings for passage. These openings occur at 
nearly opposite points in the circle. The passage through the outer 
wall is not in either exactly opposite to that through the inner. In one 
they are sixteen and in the other thirty feet apart. To avoid two large 
bowlders of Niagara limestone, the inner wall at one point makes a slight 
deflection from its regular circular course. 

Upon these embankments are standing trees and the stumps of trees 
that had commenced their growth long before the Jesuit fathers had ex- 

* This work has previously been described in Sqiiiers Aboriginal Monuments of 
New York, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, vol. II, 1851. 



37G ETHNOLOGY. 

plored the region now comprising Western New York. Traces of a moat 
Avbich once encircled this work are still discernible at intervals. This 
moat is broad in proportion to its present depth, and in this respect is 
not regular. It was probably made by the removal of earth ior the 
construction of the walls, and perhaps it was not intended as an addi- 
^tional defense, though it must to some extent have served as such. 

Three features presented by this work add much to its interest: 
first, it is almost exactly circular in form ; secondly, it consists of two 
parallel embankments j thirdly, the oi>enings for i^assage are not oppo- 
site in the two walls. These three peculiarities distinguish this from 
all other earthworks known east of Ohio. 

Ten rods south of this work lies a peat-swamp, two miles in length 
by one in breadth. This swamp is or has been covered by a heavy 
growth of black-ash timber. A vertical section of seven feet in this 
swamp shows first the remains of trees to the depth of two feet, next 
below the remains of marsh -pi ants, gradually becoming peat, which, as 
the depth increases, changes in character and color from dark brown to 
light blue. At all depths in this peat are to be seen the remains of 
leaves evidently brought by the winds from the forests of the surround- 
ing higher land. Underlying this peat is a stratum from three to five 
inches in thickness, composed entirely of fresh-water shells, mostly uni- 
valves ; some of which are apparently species of Pauludina. Beneath 
this stratum there occurs another, composed of blue clay, intermixed 
with sand, containing occasionally the remains of shells, among which 
have been found specimens of the fresh-water clam, ( Unio.) 

These facts lead to the conclusion that this peat-swamp was probably 
a shallow lake at the' time when the works were constructed. This con- 
clusion is also strengthened by the fact that there is no evidence of 
the existence of a iJermanent supply of water elsewhere within a mile of 
the work. 

It is proper to state that the supply of fish in this ancient lake was 
abundant ; replenished during the time of high water in the spring 
of each year from Lake Ontario, thirteen miles distant, through Oak 
Orchard Creek, into which its outlet flows. 

West from the work,^t a distance of half a mile on the eastern slope 
of a sand-hill, is a large " bone-pit," where the bones of many hundreds 
have been deposited. It is said by "old settlers" that those portions of 
the work now included in the cultivated fields spoken of, originally pre- 
sented the same features now seen in those which the forest includes. 

Of course exaggerated stories are told of the relics which have been 
plowed up in these fields. Without doubt many which would be of 
great interest to an ethnologist have been found, kept for a while, and 
then given to the children as playthings by those who knew nothing of 
their value as relics. 

On making excavations in those portions still uncultivated, many 
specimens of great interest are found. They usually lie from six to 



ETHNOLOGY. 377 

eighteen inches beneath the surface, often imbedded in charcoal and 
ashes. They consist of hammers, sinliers, celts, stone ornaments, pipes, 
pottery ; also implements and ornaments of bone, snch as bone splint- 
ers, awls, and needles, daggers or dirks, cylindrical ear ornaments, 
implements for the ornamentation of pottery, jierforated metatarsals, 
and perforated teeth. These bone implements are found in all stages 
of manufacture, from the rude splinter to the ground and polished imjile- 
ment or ornament. 

What was the original height of these works can now only be a 
matter of conjecture. It is probable, however, that the embankments 
were from four to five feet in height and surmounted by palisades. 
Vegetable mold to the depth of six inches has accnmulated upon those 
jDoints most elevated and exposed to atmospheric action ; beneath this 
stratum the relics occur to the depth of eighteen inches. The inference, 
therefore, is that since the work was abandoned time enough has elapsed 
for the accumulation of this six inches of vegetable matter by the slow" 
process of growth and deposit on dry land. It was inhabited or used 
long enough for twelve inches to accumulate. It was probably aban- 
doned when the lake was so nearly filled that it ceased to afford either 
fish or a permanent supply of water. Since the time when timber com- 
menced to grow at the surface of the lake, two feet of vegetable matter 
have accumulated. 



ANTIQUITIES OF LA POliTE COUNTY, IXDIANA. 

By E. S. Eobertson, of Foist Wayne, Indiana. 

At Union Mills, La Porte County, is located one of the most remarka- 
ble groups of mounds to be found in Northern Indiana. 

Union Mills is a small village, with a beautiful location on the high 
table-lands between the great Kankakee Marsh and Lake Michigan, 
most of the village being on the east side of Mill Creek, which furnishes 
a fine water-power for the mill from which its name is derived, and 
which flows southwardly through a ravine some 40 or 50 feet below the 
nearly level plain on which most of the mounds are situated. To the 
southwest another ravine terminates this table-land, beyond which are 
a series of ridges and levels gradually merging into the Kankakee Marsh, 
which is here, however, generally drained and cultivated. Along the 
brink of this ravine, ten (or rather five double) mounds have been raised, 
of nearly uniform construction, and all evidently for places of sepulture. 

Where the mounds are double, as all of this series are, the larger one 
is now about 10 feet in height, and its companion about one-third lower. 
The longitudinal diameter of the two is about 150 feet by from GO to 70 feet 
across, and they are from 50 to 100 feet apart. The small mound at each 
end of this series is thrown back nearly at right angles with the general 



378 ETHNOLOGY. 

line, as if there were an intention on the part of the builders to make 
these terminal points for the group. 

The first or northernmost large mound was almost entirely cut away 
some time ago in constructing the Peninsular Railway, which runs 
directly through it ; and the third large one was nearly half cut away 
by the wagon-road, whose track here runs below the base of the mound. 
The next has been partially leveled and a farm house built on its 
truncated base. There are no depressions in the surrounding surface, 
showing that the materials, which in some are sand and others surface- 
loam, have been brought to the place from some other point. 

Proceeding eastward to the bank of the creek, we find another mound, 
(No. 6,) which has been leveled to a terrace-form abont 4 feet high, on 
which Mr. Flanigan's house stands ; and directly north, across an arm 
of the ravine, was another, (No. 7,) whose site is occupied by the house 
of Allen Cummings. Across the creek, nearly east of this, is a very 
large round tumulus, (No. 8,) which is about 15 feet high, with a base 
of about 100 feet. One hundred feet north of this is another double 
mound, (No. 9 ;) the smaller one of the group is in the yard of a church, 
and the larger one just in rear of it. 

I could find no traces of fortifications, and there are no other mounds 
in the immediate vicinity, but I was informed that a large group exists 
on a rolling prairie about two miles east, of which a very large one was 
leveled several years ago. This is, perhaps, the same group examined 
by Dr. Higday, of La Porte, some years since. 

My informant also states that about a mile south of Union Mills is a 
burial-place of the modern Indians, still known as " Indian Fields," 
from which bones, medals, kettles, guns, &c., have been obtained, while 
a half mile farther south, on a prairie overlooking the Kankakee, is 
another group of seven or eight mounds. These different burial-places 
would, undoubtedly, prove of interest to the ethnologist, for a compari- 
son of the remains of the two races who practiced such different modes 
of burial. 

The greatest interest in these prehistoric remains centers in the fact that 
the crania of the mound-builder, as found in these tumuli, differ widely 
from those of any known race, approaching the Neanderthal skull in type, 
and being, perhaps, lower in development. The frontal bone recedes 
backward from a prominent superciliary ridge, leaving no forehead, or 
rather the eye looks out from under the edge of a frontal plate, which 
reminds me of a turtle-shell and is scarcely more elevated. My speci- 
men is lower than the Stimpson-mound skull, and even than the Nean- 
derthal, if we can judge correctly between the actual and the pictured 
skull. None have yet been found here with the skull or bones entire. 

In my examination of the group I concluded that the road cut through 
No. 3 had passed a little south of the center of the mound, and selecting 
the sloping bank of the roadway as the easiest point to excavate with 
favorable results, I was rewarded, after a few minutes' work with pick 



ETHNOLOGY. 370 

and shovel, by finding several flakes of a white flinty stone, and then 
some fragments of bone, after which the hands were the principal tools 
used to complete the work, lest I might injure the deconiposing remains. 

The skeletons of two individuals were found, all in a confused heap, 
occupying a space less than two feet square, excei)t that the leg- bones 
were extended in different directions, perhaps a foot farther, each way. 
The skulls had evidently fiillen down upon the other bones of the skel- 
eton, and all had been crushed together by the falling earth. They had 
evidently been buried in a sitting posture, back to back. While ex- 
huming them I concluded there were but two persons, but on a more 
critical examination I find some fragments of a lower jaw, which lead 
me to think there may have been three. 

Most of the bones had become as soft as the surrounding earth, and 
while I could see and follow their outlines it was impossible to remove 
them, except in fragments. One upper jaw was perfectly outlined in 
the earth, with the full row of teeth upward, but it crumbled to 
powder on attempting to remove it. The skulls were crushed and the 
lower fragments were in the same state of comparative decomposition. 
I secured the right half of the frontal plate of one and the lower jaw 
nearly entire. The teeth were worn flat, indicating great age and hard 
food. The molars and five incisors were perfect, but both canines and 
one incisor had been lost and the bone had grown over and closed the 
cavities. I regret that these teeth have nearly disappeared in drying, 
falling to pieces like slaked lime. 

I also secured a fragment of the right frontal bone of another individ- 
ual, which I conclude to be that of a female, from its difference in form, 
and from the fact that the teeth in the fragments of the jaw found with 
it indicate mature age. The teeth are perfect and beautifully white 
when washed. 

Neither pottery nor weapons were found in this mound, but in the 
one through which the railroad was cut were found a stone pipe of 
beautiful workmanship, two awls of native copper, a large earthen 
jar containing a black substance, and an earthen bowl, which are de- 
scribed as having handsome designs on the surface, but which were 
broken and lost, and ten spear and arrow heads, five of which I se- 
cured and have represented. They are of a white flinty stone, with a 
delicate chipping, and are quite thin. The form is different from any 
of the hundred or more specimens in my cabinet, which are mostly 
" surface-flints." 

Since I was there I learn that there have been exhumed from the small 
mound on the railroad bank, (No. 1,) a copper hatchet, which, from the 
description, I conclude to be similar in form to the European bronze 
" celt," two more copper awls, or needles, and two jars of pottery, both 
broken. I have made arrangements to secure them. These remains, 
as near as I could determine, are found on or immediately below the 
original surface. The earth in the mounds is as hard and compact as 



380 ETHNOLOGY. 

the surrounding- strata, and immediately around tbe skeletons is dis- 
colored. I dug through about six inches of black loamy earth before 
coming to the bones. They were found in what was nearly the exact 
center of the mound. 

At Hascall, a few miles west, I found a small ball of baked potter's clay 
in which pounded shells had been mixed. It had been squeezed up by the 
hand just as we see children form balls of dough or putty. It is of the 
color of Philadelphia brick. What is remarkable about it is, that not- 
withstanding the lapse of time since it was baked it not only shows the 
marks of the fingers, but even the lines of the skin are clearly impressed 
on its surface. 

Some phrenologists would say that a race with foreheads like those of 
this race had no brain capacity, and could have no intelligence. Yet they 
fabricated and used tools and weapons, some of which are of fine work- 
manship. They understood the ceramic art, and that they had a religion 
no one can doubt who reflects that they erected such monuments to the 
memory of their dead chiefs, or showed such care for the safety and com- 
fort of their passage to the spirit-world as exhibited in placing beside 
them jars of food and water, their pipes and weapons, and perhaps by 
their sacrificing and burying with them their favorite wives. It is difficult 
on any other hypothesis to account for these facts. 



ANTIQUITIES OF ALLEX AXD DE KALB COUNTIES, INDIANA. 
By R. S. Eobertson, Four Wayne, Ind. 

I inclose by to-day's mail manuscript description of mound-remains 
in Allen and Be Kalb Counties, which I hope may be considered worthy 
of a place in your report. I think it important to describe locations of 
mounds as far as discovered, and when "Northern Indiana is fully 
explored, it will prove rich in prehistoric remains. 

I have been careful to defer noting anything from reports, which are 
almost always much exaggerated, until I can verify them by personal 
examination. For instance, some ten days since I rode twelve miles in 
carriage and ten on horseback jind return, to visit a fortification and 
mounds in the north part of Huntington County, only to find a very 
large beaver-dam. As reported to me, it was said to inclose from 150 
to 200 acres. I found a beaver-dam, in zigzag lines, nearly 1,000 feet in 
length, and half a mile farther on two more, one about 300 and the other 
COO feet long. 

Since my paper containing a description of the location and contents 
of the mounds at Union Mills, I have received from there a copper 
implement 4^ inches long, 2:^ inches broad at the cutting-end, and 1 
inch at the other, and | of an inch in thickness. It is slightly convex 
on one side, and has api)arcntly been flattened by hammering. I class 
it among the hatchets of the "Age of Copper," although it has no groove 



ETHNOLOGY. 381 

for tbe liandle. It was exluinied from one of the small mounds of tlio 
group described by me, and with it was a cop[)er awl or needle 3 inches 
long^, pointed only at one end. The same mound furnished fragments 
of two diftereut vessels of pottery, one deep and narrow, with bauds 
cut in chevron patterns upon the outside. The other was apparently 
about the shape of the glazed earthen vessels used by our larmers for 
milk-pans. The outside of this has beeu highly ornamented with cut 
aud iudeuted patterus, but the device cannot be made out from the 
fragment in my possession. Its inner surfcice has been smoothed by 
pressure, I think, upon a potter's wheel. Bones of a single skeleton 
were found in this mound, but unfortunately no record was taken of 
any peculiarities. 

During the summer I have investigated the prehistoric remains of 
Allen and De Kalb Counties as far as my opportunities would allow. 
All that I have discovered thus far have been in the vicinity of the 
Saint Joseph lliver, which flows from the northeast to the head of the 
Maumee and of one of its tributaries, Cedar Creek, which flows from 
the northwest into the Saint Joseph. [ know of no mounds on the Saint 
Joseph much above the mouth of Cedar Creek ; and the greatest number 
are on the creek in i)e Kalb County and the northern part of Allen. 

Near Waterloo, in De Kalb County, E. W. McBride, esq., an enthusi- 
astic archaeologist and collector, had excavated two mounds, finding 
in one the remains of a great number of human skeletons, apparently 
buried in a promiscuous heap, and in the other, not far distant, a single 
skeleton. The bones were too much decayed for preservation. One of 
the skulls, he says, appeared to have been crushed by a blow from a 
blunt instrument. He found no works of art, but in examining the 
rubbish afterward with him I found the butt-end of an arrow-head of 
flint and a small fragment of pottery. These two mounds are about 50 
feet apart, are about 30 feet in diameter, and about 4 feet in height, 
and are situated on the high ground bordering a marsh, which has once 
been a small lake. The remains were laid on the surface of the ground, 
covered with earth, and fires built, which baked the earth and calcined 
some of the bones. Quite a layer of charcoal and ashes was passed 
through in digging, and above this layer earth had again been heaped. 

From there we went to Smithfield Township, six miles northwest of 
Waterloo, where, on the farm of Mr. Euffner, is a circular earth work 
about 000 feet in circumference, with two entrances opposite each other. 
The earth-work is from 2 to 2^ feet high, with a ditch outside. Very 
large trees, which grew on the embankment, have fallen and gone to 
decay, aud a black oak standing just inside the wall measured 12.] feet 
in circumference at a height of 6 feet from the ground. The -fort" is 
situated in the woods, on a high piece of ground, which is nearly sur- 
rounded by ravines cut by the action of two streams now nearly dry. 

We next went to the farm of Henry Gouzer, in Fairfield Township, 
where a mound once overlooked a small lake, which is gradually filling 



382 ETHXOLOGY. 

from the Avasb of the surrounding bills. The mound is now nearly 
obliterated by cultivation. We were informed by Mr. Gouzer that 
it was opened about twenty years ago, when a skeleton was found 
tbe tbigh-bone of which was as long as his leg, and tbe skull as 
large as a half-bushel measure. We dug a little below the surface, 
and found a few bones, among whicb was a broken thigh-bone of the 
ordinary size, tbus destroying a myth which has been a belief of the 
credulous of the neighborhood for twenty years, that "there were 
giants in those days,'' and that one was buried here. 

The next day we visited a point live miles northeast of Waterloo, 
where there are several groups of mounds. In the woods on Mr. 
Boyer's farm we found a mound about 12 feet in diameter and 3 
feet bigb, composed entirely of large bowlders. It has been there ever 
since tbe settlement of the country. On removing the stones and dig- 
ging beneath, we found that tbe original soil had never been disturbed, 
and no remains were found. Near by in a cultivated field was anotber 
mound of earth nearly obliterated by cultivation. Excavating it, we 
found numerous bits of charcoal, and several fragments of pottery, but 
no human remains. A sort of trench from side to side had been filled 
with what appeared to be dried swamp muck. Its outlines were quite 
well defined in the sandy loam of the rest of tbe mound. 

On tbe adjoining farm of Mr. Taylor, about half a mile distant, were 
two more mounds. We dug into one of them, finding again charcoal 
and fragments of pottery, but no human remains. None of these mounds 
are more than 3 feet high, and generally have a base of from 20 to 30 
feet. All through this section many tliuts and carved implements and 
ornaments of stone are found by the farmers. Some of them are per- 
forated, and nearly all are of the banded siliceous slate, which seems to 
have been so highly prized by the mound-builder. One found in this 
vicinity and now in my collection is represented in Fig. 2. The boy 
who found it described it as a '' stone bayonet," and his mistake seems 
quite natural when we look only to the shai)e of the ornament. It is 
intended to represent a long-billed aquatic fowl, and was probably worn 
as a totemic emblem on the head-dress of a prominent chief, to which it 
was attached by thongs passing through the holes drilled in the ends. 
The tail is unfortunately broken off. Mr. McBride has several in his 
collection, some of which are fair representations of birds. He has one 
almost precisely like Fig. 27 in Foster's Prehistoric Eaces, and has also 
a fac simile of the implement found at Danville, 111., represented in 
Fig. 28 of the same work. I have seen a number of articles carved 
from this ribboned slate, some of which are shaped like a double-edged 
battle-ax, but too slight for use. They all have a smooth, regular hole 
drilled through the center about f of an inch in diameter. I con- 
clude they were carried as emblems of authority in processions on 
state occasions. 



ETHNOLOGY. 383 

We beard of other monuds in De Kalb County, but bad no time to 
visit them. 

In Allen County these remains are not so numerous, and tbere are 
none at all in the southern part of the county. 

On Cedar Creek, about ten miles north of Fort Wayne, is a group 
of four mounds, near Stoner's Station, on the Fort Wayne, Jackson and 
Saginaw Railroad. Two of them are in a line north and south, about 
40 feet apart. About fifteen rods east of these are two more, about the 
same distance apart, on a line nearly east and west. Three of them bad 
been opened years ago, and bones of a number of skeletons found in all. 
The fourth bad never been disturbed, but an excavation disclosed no 
remains, out many fragments of charcoal and hard-baked earth. I pro- 
cured in the vicinitj' a large stone ax and a spear-bead of large white 
fliut, leaf-sbaped, and about 5 iucbes in length, (Fig. 7,) besides a num- 
ber of smaller flints. These mounds are on the high ground at the junc- 
tion of Cedar and Willow Creeks. About four miles south of tbese is a 
large, irregular-shaped mouud, about 50 feet long by 20 in width. 
It is situated on the farm of Henry Wolford, whose family, being some- 
what superstitious, would only permit me to dig a small hole near the 
center of the mound. About 2 feet from the surface I found an im- 
plement (Fig. 31) of ribboued slate, witb a perforation near one end, of 
the class supposed by some to be a weaving sbuttle, and by otbers an 
implement for gauging cords. Plenty of cbarcoal was found to a depth of 
about 4 feet. Below that for a foot the earth was very bard, as if baked, 
until the original soil was reached. I found no bones in this mouud. 
There is no stream in the immediate vicinity, but a large marsb lies 
directly east of it. 

At Cedarville, on the Saint Josepb, near the moutb of Cedar Creek, 
are three mounds about 100 feet apart, situated in a line runuiug north- 
west, parallel witb the general direction of tbe river at this point. IS one 
of them have been opened, but one has been partially removed to mend 
the road, and charcoal was found mingled witb tbe earth. 

Descending tbe Saint Josepb on tbe east side, to the farm of Peter 
Notestine, one of the oldest settlers, we find a circular "fort" in a bend 
of tbe river similar to tbe one in De Kalb County. It has been i)lowed 
over for nearly thirty years, but numerous fragments of pottery, flints, 
and stone implements are yet found in and about its site when newly 
plowed. Mr. H. J. Rudisill, county auditor, has a large rude pipe of 
pottery from this place. Tbe bowl and stem are in one piece, and the 
end of the stem, which is nearly an inch in diameter, has been flattened 
by tbe Augers while plastic for a mouthpiece. 

Still farther down tbe river, on tbe west side, opposite Antrup's Mill, 
is a semicircular "fort" witb its ends on the river-bank. It is about 
600 feet in arc. The earth-work is yet about 2 feet in height, witb a 
well-defined ditch on the outside. Very large trees which stood on tbe 
embankment have fallen and gone to decay. We found in tbe earth 



384 ANTIQUITIES OF JACKSON COUNTY, TENNESSEE HAILE. 

wbich had been upturned by a fallen tree a fragment from the neck of 
a vessel, with square indentations on the surface, and a flint, flat on one 
side and regularly chipped to a concave surface on the other. Still l\ir- 
ther down the river, at the mouth of Breckinridge Creek, is a single 
mound, which has not been opened, except a slight excavation, which 
developed the customary lumps of charcoal. This point is about four 
miles north of Fort Wayne, and is the most southerly point in the 
county at which mounds or earth-works are known to exist. 

Still, on the ridges, implements and ornaments of the " stone age " 
and fragments of pottery are often found in many parts of the county, 
and many of these articles have a beauty of design and a polish un- 
known to the Indians who were found here on the advent of the whites. 
Some of the flints are beveled, and others seem to have been cut in a 
winding form, probably for the same purpose as the beveled ones — to 
■give a rotary movement to the weapon. They are of every variety of 
flints or cherts, and one I possess is a beautifully veined agate. Pro- 
fessor Foster criticises Longfellow's lines — 

There the ancient arrow-maker 
Made his arrow-heads of sandstone — 

and says, " Sandstone was never used by the mound-builders as a mate- 
rial for arrow-heads." I have in my collection a broken arrow-head 
chipped from sandstone, which proves that Longfellow was right and 
his critic wrong. 

Some of the stone ornaments are of a material not found in this local- 
ity, except in a worked form. The ribboned siliceous slate seemed to 
have been held in special estimation, and I have part of one which 1 
presume to have been an emblem of authority. It differs from any I 
have seen figured. It is of a reddish-veined slate, and had two perfo- 
rations for the handle, but is broken through both holes, the interme- 
diate piece being lost. The holes are about | of an inch in diameter, 
regularly drilled. 

I send you with this rude drawings of other implements and weapons 
in my collection, which I have selected as types of the relics of the 
stone age found in this vicinity, and which I hope may prove of inter- 
est. They are all from this county, except those noted as from De Kalb. 
They are drawn the exact size of the originals, and the flaking and 
chipping represented as exactly as my artistic skill, or rather want of 
it, will i^ermit. 



ANTIQUITIES OF .lACKSOX COUNTY, TENNESSEE. 

By Eev. Joshua Hai^le, of Gaixesborough, Tenn. 

[Communicated by James W. McHeury, of Nashville.] 

There is a mound in this county, on the field of Mr. Philip M. Eay, 
about iorty yards in diameter and nearly 8 feet high, though lower at 



ETHNOLOGY. 385 

present by several feet than it was forty years ago. This mound has 
been only imperfectly examined, and nothing found beyond a vessel or 
two made of clay and slightly burned. No bodies have yet been found 
in the mound or around it. 

There are graves and a mound on my place, which have been carefully 
examined. The mound is near the middle of a valley, on the east side 
of Flyun's Creek, about one hundred and twenty yards from the stream. 
It is about forty yards in diameter and at the present time over 6 feet 
above the general surface of the land. Surrounding the base of this 
mound were placed loose, rough stones, forming a wall of 4 or 5 feet 
high. I have made excavations into this mound, and in different parts 
of it found that it is entirely filled in every part with graves just as close 
to one another as they could be placed. They are found at the present 
time from 18 inches to 2 feet below the surface, where there are no 
washings ; this seems to be their usual depth. The graves are not con- 
fined to the mound, for the surrounding valley, containing fifty acres or 
more, is filled with them as close as they can be placed. These graves 
are generally in an east-and-west direction, and sometimes facing the 
southeast, and occasionally, where the rock interfered with the position, 
they are found without regard to direction, compactness seeming to 
have been the leading idea. A great many of these graves have been 
opened. They vary from 18 inches to 5J feet in length, and skulls, with 
the jaw-bones still fastened to them, have been found ; also ribs and 
leg-bones ; in short, all the solid bones of the human body, with little 
sign of decay. 

The manner of burying seemed to be as follows : The graves vary in 
width from 10 to 18 inches ; the coffins consist of slates, at the bottom 
of the grave, closely fitted together ; then slate set upon the sides and 
at the ends, all of the same height, of about 15 or 18 inches. These 
slates are generally in their rough condition, and the bodies seem to 
have been deposited, and then one or two slates or other stones, smoothly 
dressed or polished, laid over them. The stones are closely fitted 
together where two are used, and, from the compactness, seem to have 
been united with cement. The lid rests on the upright stones, and gen- 
erally projects over the sides 3 or 4 inches. When these graves are 
opened, they are found dry within, and generally contain some toys, 
consistingof small jugs, crocks, skillets, or other small vessels, made of 
clay, with the image of a man, eagle, or some other bird, evidently 
stamped on them while in a soft state. The vessels vary in size from 
the capacity of a pint to that of a gallon. They have been burned 
slightly, but in no case have any been found glazed. There is at this 
time one of these vessels or jugs, at T. L. Settle's, in Gainesborough. 
Some of them have legs and handles. 

These graves were first discovered about fifty years ago, when the 
valley as well as the mound were covered with a dense forest, composed 
of trees of a large size. A violent storm blew over some of the large 
trees, upturning the roots, and thus uncovered the graves 
25 s 



38b ANTIQUITIES OF PERRY COUNTY, OHIO ANDERSON. 

Coutiguous to what may be called the valley of graves, on the west 
side of Flyim's Creek, is a low bluff, in which is a hole large enough to 
take in at its mouth an ordinary-sized barrel. This hole is the entrance 
to a cave under the hill, which has been explored to the distance of about 
300 feet. This cave is high enough to allow walking in it erect, is 
quite roomy, and perfectly dry. In it was found, in 1863, a chest or 
box, made of black-walnut plank 1^ inches thick. It was about 2 feet 
long, 12 inches wide, and 16 inches deep, with a well-formed lid of the 
same wood. It was decayed on the outside with dry-rot to the depth 
of about 1 inch, and in some places the finger could be pushed 
through the wood ; in other i)laces the material was sound inside, and 
showed that the chest had been neatly dressed with a plane or some 
other tool, and lined with cloth or some fine, soft substance. In it were 
found wrapped up, in about three yards of large-checked gingham, a 
part of which was still sound, about twenty surgical instruments, con- 
sisting of a crooked knife, a crooked scissors, a lancet, and other articles 
of which I did not know the name. These instruments were not badly 
rusted, and in some places still quite bright; they were made of fine 
steel, finely polished, with handles of tortoise-shell. Dr. U. T. Brown, 
who has since died, took charge of them, and perhaps his family has 
some of them still. 

On the hill, some 200 yards high, which joins this valley, is found a 
pile of loose, rough stones, 5 or 6 feet high. It has not been opened, 
and therefore no information is to be given as to its contents. 

On the top of another hill, which joins the mound in P. M. Ray's field, 
about the same distance and height from the mound, is a similar pile of 
loose stones, which has not been examined. 



ANTIQUITIES OF PERRY COUNTY, OHIO. 

i3y "W". Anderson, of Buownsville, Ohio. 

I send to the Institution some specimens of antiquities from Perry 
County, Ohio. The mound from which they were obtained is 6 feet 
high, with a diameter of 25 feet. I found nothing until I reached the 
original surface of the ground, where there were ashes and charcoal. 
Two feet beneath these was the skeleton. The relics were deposited near 
its head. Around the neck was a string of beads of sea-shells. Near 
its right hand was found a plano-convex stone with holes in it. There 
were also a large number of arrow-heads and stone axes with and with- 
out grooves. 

The skeleton was in a poor state of j) reservation. I saved a few bones. 
Around the skeleton was a quantity of ash-colored soil like that of de- 
composed bark. I send a specimen of each. 



ETHNOLOGY. 387 

ANTIQUITIES OF CHARLES COUXTV, MARYLAND. 

By Oliver N. Bryan, of Marshall Hall, Maryland. 

The following paper does not propose to be an entire summary of all 
the Indian relics in this county, but only to present a list in part of 
such as have been found upon my farm on the Potomac, opposite Mount 
Vernon, and of a few found upon the adjoining estates. What I propose 
is simply to give a glance at my own cabinet, which I have been accu- 
mulating for the last ten or twelve years, and at a few specimens I, from 
time to time, have sent to the Smithsonian Institution. 

Some ten or twelve years ago I became interested in gathering up, as 
opportunity offered, the stone arrow-heads, axes, &c., that happened to 
lie in my jjath, scarcely without knowing why I did so. At that time 
an interest in archaeology had not developed itself in my mind, but now, 
with a taste somewhat cultivated in that direction, and more sharply 
eyed by practice, I take great pleasure in gathering up everything of 
the kind that falls under ray observation bearing evidence that it can 
be referred to human ingenuity. I have become deeply interested in 
the subject, and earnestly desire to add my mite toward developing 
the history of the ancient people who lived upon the ground which I now 
call my own. 

Among the articles I have gathered in my walks are axes, hoes, arrow 
and spear points, scrapers, and lances of stone and bone, wampum and 
pottery, pipes, needles with two holes, mortars, sinkers, hammers, chisels, 
paint-material, bones (human and brute) from Indian graves, and speci- 
mens from muscle-shell heaps. I have also found axes of greenish jasper, 
of various shapes and sizes, one of which I sent to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution ; found about three miles from my house. It was double grooved 
and very long, and in respect to the extra groove was unlike any other 
that I ever saw. The arrow-points show a greater diversity of form and 
mineral than the axes or any other implement. I have them of quartz, 
jasper, agate, chalcedony, hornstone, flint, lydian-stone, and a very rough 
one of a granitic character. They vary in length from ^ inch to 4 
inches. 

It is evident that the makers of arrows could not work the stone, by 
chipping, to any desired form, as is proved bj^ the fact that no two points 
can be found exactly of the same shape and size in all respects. Com- 
pare two of the same length and material and you will find one more 
umbilicated than the other, hases differently notched, points not true 
with the base, and many other difi'erent phases, which plainly show that 
the character of the mineral contr oiled the makers at least in part. This 
is not, however, the case with axes, pestles, or other implements sub- 
mitted to a rubbing or grinding process. The makers of these had evi- 
dently a mechanical eye as good, as far as their range extended, as that 
of the mechanic of the present day. Nearly all the rubbed implements 



388 ETHNOLOGY. 

have their proportions wrought out, on both sides,- as true to the design 
of the artist as could be done in our day upon such work. 

Some of my arrow-heads have their points so crooked that one might 
fancy that they were intended to shoot around a corner. Besides arrow- 
points with bases to fit to the shaft, I have many without the projecting 
base, from one to three inches long 5 others with flat and thin bases, said 
to be war-implements, and to be left in the wound; and some few almost 
triangular. These last are generally more perfect than the regular- 
pointed. 

The hatchets, so called, did not apparently answer the purpose of the 
modern instrument of the same name, and, so far as I can see, were 
never used by the Indian in that way. I have never seen one rubbed 
or worn, and this is true also of the axes. The latter were, in my opinion, 
used exclusively in war and in the chase. 

Pottery seems to have been very extensively used among the ancient 
inhabitants of this region ; some of very good quality, others very 
imperfect ; some baked doubtless in nets, other as certainly without nets. 
I have one piece which, from its curvature, indicates a diameter of 17 
inches, others from that down to 4 inches; none with ears or handles, 
but some with deflected rims. Some of the pottery has pounded chal- 
cedony mixed with the clay of which it is composed; more, however, with- 
out it; another variety is worked out of soapstone or steatite. I have 
a number of pipes, one of clay, one of limestone, representing the human 
face and head in good style, and another of steatite showing a fox's 
head, a most capital representation. There are hammers in the col- 
lection, large and small, one weighing 8 pounds, 8 inches long, 6i inches 
broad, 2J inches thick. 

Mortars are found on my farm. A broken corn-mill was sent from it 
a year or so ago ; a medicine-mortar was also i^resented to the Institu- 
tion. I have another, a paint-mortar, very unique, 4 inches long, and 2 
broad, with a cavity on both sides (top and bottom) for the thumb and 
fingers to hold the article while the party is painting himself. The 
corn-mill was found three miles from my house. I think it singular that 
among the articles I have found on my farm there has not been a single 
corn-mill, although I have found a piece of a very large pestle. I have, 
however, two other very small mortars, which I suppose must have 
been for medicine or j)aint. 

I have gathered since I commenced my collection, as stated above, 
everything that showed any trace of human art, consequently have 
quite a variety of unfinished pieces, some just begun, others more per- 
fect, showing at once the implement to be formed. One piece, fgr in- 
stance, of yellow quartz, 10 inches long, 5 broad, 27^ thick, weighs 6 
pounds, intended to be a spear; another quartz piece, cimeter shape, 
15 inches long, 3^ inches broad, 2^ inches thick, weighs 6^ pounds, 
seems to be for a war-club, having a handle sufficiently developed for 
that purpose. There are also a variety of net-sinkers, very rough, of 



ETHNOLOGY. 389 

cobble-stones; needles, one of stone, 1^ inches long, ^ inch wide, jL- 
iuch thick, with hole and notch in one end ; another, of horn, 7 inches 
long, t} inch wide, very thin; a third, of bone, an inch long, of cylin- 
drical form, constructed from the rib of some very small animal. 

• Wampum. — There are in my collection ten pieces of a bead, nine of 
shells, one of stone ; another of shell, 4 inches long, ^ inch thick. This 
last shows that the Indians must have had some communication with 
the ocean, as no shell now found in the river or bay would make such a 
bead. These wampum were taken from an Indian grave upon Piscata- 
way Creek. There are doubtless graves in this neighborhood, but as 
yet I have not been able to find them. I heard, a few days ago, of some 
graves washed out, about fifteen miles below me, which I shall visit. 

We have near my place several small " shell- heaps " of muscle-shells, 
CompUnatus, nearly all 'weathered out, from which I have obtained 
specimens of pottery and bones of such animals as the ancient people 
ate. One remarkable bone was submitted to Professor Cope, which 
was pronounced by him to be the tarsus metatarsus of some large 
water-fowl, but I have examined all the skeletons of that class in the 
Smithsonian museum without finding anything like it. It might seem 
at first that the Indians here were driven from necessity to eat muscles, 
but from experiment I think otherwise. I have tried this mollusk, and 
find it, when well cooked, quite a savory dish, as good, to my taste, as 
common oysters. 

We have also in this region and also in Saint Mary's the true oyster- 
shell heaps ; one at Pope's Creek, covering thirty acres from one to six 
feet deep. Oyster-shell heaps abound upon the Wycomico Eiver, and 
there are several in Saint Mary's County, upon the Potomac, the Wy- 
comico, and Patuxent Rivers, and upon the bay. No ethnologist, so 
far as I know, has ever visited these localities. Although, near as they 
are to me, I have not yet visited them, intending to do so, I have been 
prevented by the constant recurring duties of the farm. 



ANTIQUITIES OF STANLY AND MONTGOMERY COUNTIES, NORTH CAROLINA. 

By F. J. KuoN, of Alhcmarle, N. C. 

I forward to the Institution, from Salisbury, N. C, by express, a 
small box containing some antiquities collected in this part of North 
Carolina, (the counties of Stanly and Montgomery,) on both sides of 
the river called Yadkin above and Pedee below the mouth of the 
Uharree River, on an area which, may be embraced at a glance from 
the accompanying sketch, rough to be sure, but the bearings and dis- 
tances of which are very nearly true. 

From the vestiges left here by the Indians it must have been 
a place much frequented by them. ^ They have now all disappeared 



390 ETHNOLOGY. 

from about here. Some fifty years ago, however, bauds of ten or more 
were frequently met with on their way to Fayetteville, armed with bows 
and arrows, and ready for a reward to display their dexterity in hitting, 
before it came down, a piece of coin tossed up in the air. 

Implements of war or the chase, broken pots, burned stones, where fires 
had been made, and arrow-heads chipped from minerals, are met with in 
all directions, in the bottoms along the river, and on the hills within a 
mile or so of the numerous fishing-stands along the banks of the stream. 
Between the mouth of Uharree and Island Creek, on the river-bottom, large 
spaces are covered with chips and blocks of chert from which iMeces had 
been taken. The lands being all made by successive deposits froni the 
stream, the remains are found from the surface down to the old bed of 
the river, to the depth of about four feet. Broken pots, of various ma- 
terial and ornamentation, can be picked up. Among those sent to tlie 
Institution will be found one heavy specimen of soapstone, a mineral 
not found in this neighborhood. Some years ago, a whole pot was 
washed up during a freshet, but the vessel, which was of about two gal- 
lons' capacity, and gourd-shaped, unfortunately fell into the hands of 
children, was broken, and only a few fragments saved. 

Immediately' below the month of Uharree Kiver, across the Pedee, 
when the waters are low, there can yet be seen the greater part of a 
stone ford, in the form of a zigzag rail-fence. In 1829 it was still entire, 
and could be used for passing over the stream ; but the stones have 
since been removed from both extremities for the building of fish-dams. 
What remains, however, indicates the sound engineering notions of the 
builders when they traced their path along a course the angles of which 
would divide the force of the stream. 

No mounds nor vestiges of other permanent works are to be found. 
What remains seems to have been left on a vast camping-ground during 
the shad-fishing season, which in those days must have yielded a pro- 
digious number of fish ; for, not fifty years back, more shad could yet 
be caught than could ^be cured by the fishermen. Not so, however, now. 
Game must also have been an attraction, for the wild approaches of the 
river are, even now, much visited by hunting-parties of the white race. 



ANTIQUITIES OF FLORIDA. 

By Augustus Mitchell, M. D., of Saint Man/s, Georgia. 

While in the South during the winter of 1848, pursuing the study 
and collecting specimens of ornithology, I was impelled by curiosity to 
exauiine a mound of a moderate size situated on the southern portion of 
Amelia Island, Florida, being kindly furnished with colored laborers, 
and aided by Dr. li. Harrison. 

This mound was about 15 feet in height, and 30 feet in diameter at 



ETHNOLOGY. 391 

the base, flattened and worn by attrition for ages; there having been 
two growths of live-oak upon it, as stated by an old Spanish inhabitant 
of the place. The soil composing the mound was of a light sandy, yel- 
lowish loam. 

We commenced the examination by cutting a trench 4 feet wide directly 
through the center, from the apex to the base, and then another trench 
at right angles to the former. The excavation revealed a number of 
relics, and the mode of burial of the mound-builders. They must have 
commenced by digging into the surface of the ground about 2 feet ; 
then, partially filling the excavation with oyster-shells, thej' placed their 
dead on these in a sitting posture, their legs bent under them, with their 
faces to the east, and their arms crossed upon the breast, and next 
spread over them a stratum of earth. It is evident that in the succes- 
sive burials the earth was reopened, and the additional bodies were 
I)laced close either to the back or side of those which had been previ- 
ously interred, until the whole of the first layer was complete; then the 
circumference of the mound was walled in by a compost of marsh-mud ; 
and then another layer of oj^scer- shells was placed over the heads of the 
first layer of bodies, and a continuation of the mud wall, until the 
superincumbent layer completed the mound to its apex. 

Full three centuries must have rolled their tempests over this aborig- 
inal repository of the dead. I quite expected to find everything like 
mortal remains returned to dust. But in this I was in error, as through- 
out the mound parts or complete portions of the bony structure still 
remained ; those on the southern or sunny side being in a more perfect 
state of preservation. Counting the remains existing in the different 
layers of this ancient tumulus, it must have contained about four hun- 
dred individuals. 

As we proceeded with our work, the interior of the mound presented 
many objects of interest to the ethnologist. We could not, however, 
secure many of these, since they crumbled, except the teeth, to dust as 
soon as exposed to the air. I had therefore to study them mostly in 
the earth, carefully scraping it away with a knife. 

The conformation of the crania found in this mound appears to differ 
somewhat from that of the present Indians; the facial angle less, 
with superior depth of the frontal region, and greater capacity for the 
anterior lobes of the brain ; the outer surface of the skull somewhat 
oval, smooth, and regular; frontal sinuses large; high cheek-bones; 
cavity of the antrum large ; orbital cavity of the eye deep and large ; 
occipital protuberance very large, with a great development of the 
organs of philoprogenitiveness ; superior depth of the base of the infe- 
rior maxillary bone; rough serratures and deep depressions for the 
attachments of powerful muscles of that bone. 

The teeth of many of the crania of this mound were, without ex- 
ceptions, in a perfect state of preservation, the vitrified enamel of 
these organs being capable of resisting exposure for centuries. These 



392 ETHNOLOGY. 

teeth presented distmctive appearances throughout, in the absence of 
the pointed canines ; the incisors, canine, cuspides, and bicaspides all 
presented flat crowns, worn to smoothness by the attrition of sand and 
ashes eaten with the half-cooked food. A bisection of some of these 
teeth showed the dental nerve to be protected by an unusual thickness 
on the surface of the crown. Not one carious tooth was found among 
the hundreds in the mound. Many were entire in the lower jaw, the 
whole compactly aiod firmly set. In some the second set was observed ; 
while one jaw had evident signs of a third set, a nucleus of a tooth being 
seen beneath the neck of a tooth of a very old jaw, whose alveolar pro- 
cess was gone, and the whole lower jaw ossified to a sharp edge; none 
showing the partial loss of teeth by caries and decaj^ 

Some of the skulls showed evident marks of death by violence, as 
from the hands of the enemy in war. In one instance the flint arrow- 
head was seen sticking in the left parietal bone. A number of skulls 
were broken in, mostly at the vertex, seemingly by that rude weapon, 
the stone battle-ax, which was so effective on the skulls of the Spaniards 
in the early periods of their settlement of Florida. It is evident that 
sanguinary conflicts often took place between tribes of the mainland, 
in their disputations for those enviable islands of the sea-coast, abound- 
ing then in spontaneous productions and surrounded by fish and oj^sters. 
No remains of these, much below adult age, were found ; the weak and 
slender frame had returned to dust. All that could be traced of their 
mortality was a carbonized deposit in the clean sand, with here and 
there a small fragment of bone. 

Pursuing my investigations, and excavating farther toward the south- 
east face of the mound, I came upon the largest-sized stone ax I have ever 
seen or that had ever been found in that section of the country. Close 
to it was the largest and most perfect cranium of the mound, not crushed 
by the pressure of the earth, complete in its form, quite di:y, and no^sand 
in its cavity ; together with its inferior maxillary bone, with all the teeth 
in the upper and lower jaws. Near by the side of this skull were the 
right femoris, the tibia, the humerus, ulna, and part of the radius, with 
a portion of the pelvis directly under the skull. All of the other bones 
of this large skeleton were completely or partially decayed. Contiguous 
to this was nearly a quart of red ocher, and quite the same quantity of 
what seemed to be pulverized charcoal, as materials of war-paint. 
Anticipating a perfect specimen in this skull, I was doomed to disap- 
pointment; for, after taking it out of the earth and setting it uj), so that 
I could view the fleshless face of this gigantic savage, in the space of 
two hours it crumbled to pieces, except small portions. According to 
the measurement of the bones of this skeleton, its height must have 
been quite 7 feet. 

There were three distinct rude ornaments in this mound. First, the 
vertebrsB of a fish, painted with red ocher, and well preserved. Second, 
an hexagonal bead, made from the tooth of the alligator, (not painted.) 



ETHNOLOGY. 



S93 



Tbi,-.l, tl,e internal lan.iua of an oyster-sbe 1 cab mo «»»" 7™ f' 
spangles, pierced with a hole in the center, anrt threaded with the flbnto 
of the tendon of some animal, closely strung, and painted with red 

"'coal was freely diffused throngliout the mound, which contained but 
litae polte'v. T-o stone hatchets were found, and a small stone ax, in 
a'mion U> ihe large one described. This instrument bore evident marks 

"^ThL is one large mound on the eastern end of Amelia Island, Florida, 
and two mounds on the central nortion of Cumberland Island, Georg , 
likewise most of the islands on that c-'-M™- which could be obta« 
large collections of materials for the advancement of ethnological 
science. 

ANTmllllES or PIORIDA. 

CErfract from the journal of John Bartram, of Philadelphia. Loudou, 176!..] 

"About noon [25th January, 1700] we landed at Mount Boy al and 
went to an Indiau tumulus, which was about 100 y^^J-J^'^^; 
nearly round, and near 20 feet high. Found some bones sea te ed on i„. 
It mu's be v^ry ancient, as live-oaks are growing upon it ^ fee ,n dmnv 
eter What a prodigious multitude of Indians must have labored to 
Se it to what height we cannot say, as it must 1;;--^ ^- -f ; 
«„ch a number of years; and it is surprising where they biought the 
Id r Tand how, as they had nothing but baskets or bow s to carry 
it in There seems to be a little hollow near the adjacent level on one 
tee' thou' h not likely to raise such a tumulus the fiftieth part of wha 
L • but directly north from the tumulus is a fine straight aveuue about 
«« y'ards broad,!aU the surface of which has been taken «« »;! 'hrown 
ouLh side, which makes a bank of about a rood wide -> ^f««; 
more or less as the unevenness of the ground required, tor he a^ enuc 
is as level as a floor from bank to bank, and continues so for about three- 
uarterrof a mile to a pond of about one hundred yards broad and one 
1 n ired and fifty long, north and south, seemed to be an oblong square, 
n itrbanks four feet perpendicular, gradually sloping every way to the 
tn the depth of wUch we could not say, but do not imagine it deep, as 
he A'ass grows all over it; by its regularity it seems to be artil^cial ; if o, 
lerhCs the sand was carried from hence to raise the tumnUis, as the 
oiTeTeetly aces the other at each end of the avenue. On the south 
sde of the tumulus I found a very large rattlesnake sunniug himself; 
Isuin ose this to be his winter-quarters. Here had formerly been alarge 
nS town. I suppose there are fifty acres of planting ground cleai^d, 
and S ing so 1 a good part of which is mixed with small shells; 
no dolt this large tumulus was their burying-place or sepulcher. 
Whether the Florito Indians buried the bones after the flesh was rotted 
off them, as the present southern Indians do, I cannot say. 



CONTENTS OF SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 18T4. 



Page. 

Order of Congress to print extra copies 2 

Letter from Professor Henry, transmitting report to Congress 3 

List of Regents, committees, and members ex officio of the Institution 5 

Officers and assistants of the Institution and National Museum 6 

Collaborators resident at the Institution 6 

Eeport of Professor Henry, Secretary 7 

Changes in the Board 7 

Bequest of James Hamilton , 7 

Importance of abstract science 8 

Congressional appropriations for Museum 9 

Failure of First National Bank 9 

Statement of the condition of the funds 9 

Safety of funds secured by deposit in United States Treasury 10 

Virginia bonds and coupons 10 

Publications of the Institution. 10 

Rules of distribution of Smithsonian publications 10 

Account of publications in 1874 12 

Smithsonian Contributions, volume XIX 12 

Miscellaneous Collections, volumes XI and XII 13 

Publications to form parts of future volumes 13 

Researches : 

Meteorology 16 

Comets 18 

Efficiency of steam-heaters 19 

Elevations 20 

Natural history and ethnology 20 

International exchanges 21 

Foreign correspondents 22 

Library 23 

Historical manuscripts from Mrs. Dundas and General Lefroy 25 

Telegraphic announcements of astronomical discoveries 26 

Asteroids and comets discovered in 1874 26 

National Museum 27 

Increase of the Museum, by locality 27 

Increase of the Museum, systematic 29 

Work done in connection with the Museum 36 

Government explorations and surveys 36 

Miscellaneous 44 

Corcoran Art Gallery 44 

Army Medical Museum 44 

Department of Agriculture 44 

Fog-signals 44 

Fish inquiry and propagation 44 

Deep-sea soundings 46 

Polaris Arctic exploration 46 

Chemical laboratory 47 

Photography , 47 

Light-house duty 48 

395 



396 CONTENTS. 

Page. 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary 49 

Entries in Museum record-books in 1873 and 1874 49 

Distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 1874 49 

Additions to the collections in 1874 50 

List of articles deposited by tbe Institution in the Corcojsan Art Gallery 65 

List of Indian vocabularies received from the Wheeler expedition 66 

Circular in regard to the disease known as Chorea, by Dr, S. W. Mitchell .. 66 

Literary and scientific exchanges 67 

Agents, number of boxes sent, size and weight 67 

Government exchanges 67 

Packages received by the Institution from Europe for distribution in 

America 68 

For institutions, libraries, &c 68 

For individuals 74 

Classified record of miscellaneous meteorological material preserved in the 

Smithsonian Institution 77 

Auroras 77 

Instrnments, (barometers, rain-gauges, &c.) 80 

Meteors 81 

Rain 83 

Wind - 85 

General meteorology : 

Halos, earthquakes, elevations, magnetic declination, balloon 

observations, rise and fall of lakes, lightning, «Ssc 85 

Local meteorology : 

Africa 87 

Asia 87 

Australia ^ 88 

Central America 88 

Europe 89 

North America 90 

British America 90 

Mexico 92 

United States 92 

Polynesia 115 

South America 115 

West Indies, &c 116 

Miscellaneous and unknown 117 

Report of the Executive Committee for 1874 118 

Statement of the fund 118 

Receipts aud expenditures 119 

National Museum appropriations 121 

National Museum balances 122 

Estimates for 1875 122 

Examination and approval of vouchers 123 

Journal OF Proceedings OF the Board of Regents 124 

Meeting of January 20, 1875 124 

Meeting of January 23, 1875 126 

Report of special committee on the Museum 126 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

La Place, eulogy by Arago 129 

Quktelet, eulogy by Ed. Mailly 169 



CONTENTS. 397 

Page. 

De la Ri^'k, Artliur Auguste, eulogy on, by M. Dumas 184 

Tides and Tidal Action in Hapjjors, by Prof. J. E. Hilgard 207 

Observations upon the Electricity of the Atmosphere and the Aurora 
BoREALis, mado duriug the Swedish expedition of 18C8 to the North Polo, by 

Prof. Selim Lemstkom, with notes by Professor De la Rive 227 

On a Dominant Language for Science, by Alphonse De Candolle, with 

notes by Dr. John Edw. Gray 239 

On Underground Temperature, by Charles A. Schott and Professor Everett 249 
On a Series op Earthquakes in North Carolina, commencing on 10th Febru- 
ary, 1874, by Prof. Warren Du Pre, with notes by Prof. Joseph Henry 254 

Report on the Transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural 

History, of Geneva, from June, 1872, to June, 1873, by Prof. A. De la Rive. 261 
Warming and Ventilation, by Arthur Morin, (continued from rej^ort of 

1873) 272 

Applications 272 

Infant Asylums 273 

Primary schools 278 

Adult schools 281 

Night schools of design 281 

Lyceums and colleges 284 

Workshops 287 

Manufixctories 290 

Workshops in which dust is produced 291 

Cutlery-works 292 

Grindstones used wet 291 

Drying-chambers 203 

Linen-dry iug chambers 293 

Powder-drying rooms 295 

Barracks 295 

Hospitals 297 

Asylums 305 

Churches 306 

Railroad-stations 306 

Courts and covered markets 308 

Glass roofs and ceilings 308 

Dwelling-houses • 310 

Court-yards 311 

Kitchens 311 

Privies , 312 

Sinks : 315 

Dining-rooms 31.') 

Reception-rooms i 319 

Halls of assembly and lecture-rooms 321 

Theaters 323 

Stables and cow-houses 331 

Means of control of ventilation 332 

Ethnology. 

Ancient graves and shell-heaps of California, .by Paul Schumacher 335 

Account of the burial of an Indian squaw, San Bernardino County, Califor- 
nia, May, 1874, by W. M. King 350 

Ancient mounds of Mercer County, Illinois, by Tyler McWhorter , 351 

Antiquities of Whitesides County, Illinois, by W. H. Pratt 354 

A study of skulls and long bones, from mounds near Albany, Illinois, by Dr. 

R. J. Farquharson 361 



398 CONTENTS. 

Page. 
Ethnology — Continned. 

The shell-bed sknll, by A. S. Tiffauy 3.63 

Autiquities of Northern Ohio, by Dr. George W. Hill 3G4 

The age of stone, and the troglodytes of Breckinridge County, Kentucky, 

by E. S. Robertson 367 

Antiquities of Isle Eoyale, Lake Superior, by A. C. Davis 369 

Antiquities of Yazoo County, Mississii^pi, by J. W. C. Smith 370 

Antiquities of Tennessee, by Dr. Daniel F. Wright 371 

Antiquities of Blount County, Tennessee, by Miss Annie E. Law 375 

Antiquities of Orleans County, New York, by Frank H. dishing 375 

Antiquities of La Porte County, Indiana, by R. S. Robertson 377 

Antiquities of Allen and De Kalb Counties, Indiana, by R. S. Robertson 380 

Antiquities of Jackson County, Tennessee, by Rev. Joshua Haile, communi- 
cated by James W. McHenry 384 

Antiquities of Ferry County, Ohio, by W. Anderson , 386 

Antiquities of Charles County, Maryland, by Oliver N. Bryan 387 

Antiquities of Stanly and Montgomery Counties, North Carolina, by F. J. 

Kron 389 

Antiquities of Florida, by Dr. Augustus Mitchell 390 

Antiquities of Florida, by John Bartram 393 

List of Illustrations 394 

Index ,-. 395 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page. 
La Place. 

1. Inequality in tlie mean motions of Jupiter and Saturn 145 

Tides in harbors. 

1. Semi-montlily inequality 210 

2. Diurnal iuequalit5'^ 212 

3. Tide-registers 213 

4. Earthquake- waves 216 

5. Times and heights of tides on Atlantic coast of United States 218 

6. Effect of sinking stone-fleet on Charleston bar 221 

7. Times and heights of tides in Long Island Sound and New York harbor. 222 

8. Entrance to New York harbor 224 

Warming and ventilation. 

Fig. 14. Infant asylums 274 

15. Primary schools 279 

16. Lyceums and colleges, Toulon Lyceum 2S4 

17. Lyceums and colleges, Toulon Lyceum 284 

18. Lyceums and colleges, Toulon Lyceum 284 

19. Lyceums and colleges, Toulon Lyceum 286 

20. Workshops 287 

21. Match-factories 289 

22. Match-factories 289 

23. Grindstones, used wet 291 

24. Grindstones, used wet 292 

25. Linen-drying chambers 294 

26. Linen-drying chambers 294 

27. Hospitals 298 

28. Hospitals 298 

29. Hospitals 301 

30. Privies 313 

31. Northern Eailroad Company water-closets 314 

32. Northern Kailroad Company water-closets 314 

Ethnology. 
Ancient graves op California. 

Fig. 1. Sketch from Point San Luis to Point Sal, California 336 

2. Shell-heaps between North and South Point Sal 338 

3. Shell-heaps between North and South Point Sal 339 

4. Kes-ma-li 340 

5. Wa-le-khe 344 

6. Cave of Kes-ma-li 346 

Antiquities op Whitesides County, Illinois. 

Fig. 1. Location of mounds, Whitesides County, Illinois 355 

2. Relics from Whitesides County, Illinois 358 

399 



INDEX 



Paga 

Abert, Col. J. T., minerals from , 35,50 

Academy of Brussels. (See Quetelet.) 

Acoustics, Professor Henry's experiments on 44 

Adams, George R., specimens from 32 

Additions to collections of National Museum in 1874 50 

Additions to library 23 

Agassiz, Prof. L., succeeded by Dr. Gray as Regent 7 

Agents of tbe Institution in Europe 21 

Agriculture, Department of, Smithsonian deposit with 34,36,44 

Aiken, C.E., specimens from 32,50 

Albuquerque, Seiior, specimens from 32, 50 

Alexander, Prof. Stephen, on harmonies of the solar system 14 

Algae, fresh-water, Dr. Wood's paper on 12 

Allen, H., mammals referred to 36 

Allen, J. A., mammals referred to ' 36 

Alvord, Benjamin, letter on earthquakes to 254 

Auibler, R. C, i>lants from 34,50 

Ammen, Commodore, deep-sea soundings from 46 

Ampere, electrical discoveries of 188 

Analyses of minerals 35, 36, 38, 47 

Anderson, Prof. W., antiquities of Perry County, Ohio 386 

Antiquities. (See Ethnology.) 

Antiquities of Tennessee, by Dr. Joseph Jones 14 

Appendix to the report of the Secretary 49 

Appropriations by Congress for National Museum 27, 121 

Appropriations for year 1875 121 

Arago, electrical discoveries of 189 

eulogy on La Place 129 

Archaeology. (See Ethnology.) 

Arctic expeditions, scientific results of Polaris 46 

Arctic expedition, Swedish 227 

Argentine meteorological observatory, tables printed for 14 

Army Medical Museum, Smithsonian deposit with 44 

Arny, Governor, additions to collections by 30, 50 

Artesian wells, temperature of 249 

Art gallery. (See Corcoran.) 

Assistants in the Institution and National Museum 6 

Assyrian tablet, from British Museum 57 

Asteroids discovered in 1874 26 

investigation relative to 19 

Professor Watson's plan for discovery of 26 

Astor, William B., succeeded by Professor Copp^e as Regent ,. 7 

Astronomical discoveries, telegraphic announcement of 26 

Astronomy. (See Alexander, Bessels, Wheeler, Hayden, Powell, and Campbell.) 

La Place, labors and discoveries of 131 

Kepler, labors and discoveries of 131 

Newton, labors and discoveries of 133 

26 S 401 



402 INDEX. 

Page. 

Astrouomy, Euler, labors and discoveries of 134 

Copernicus, labors and discoveries of 135 

Huygbeus, labors and discoveries of 136 

Clairault, labors and discoveries of 1S7 

Cassiui, labors and discoveries of 139 

D'Alembert, labors and discoveries of 134 

Lagrange, labors and discoveries of 134 

Adams, labors and discoveries of 144 

Halley, labors and discoveries of 146 

Galileo, labors and discoveries of 151 

Beruonilli, labors and discoveries of 158 

Le Sage, labors and discoveries of 15H 

Buifon, labors and discoveries of 160 

Asylums, warming and ventilation of 273,305 

Atkins, Charles G., salmon-batching by 46 

Atomic theory 192 

Auroras, De la Rive's theory of 195 

observations on, in Arctic regions 227 

records of 77 

Baird, Prof, Spencer F., Assistant Secretary of the Institution 6 

fish inquiry and propagation in charge of 44 

observation by, on temperature of sea-waters 46 

report of, on Museum . . .'. 27 

review of American birds 13 

specimens from 33,50 

Bancroft, Hon. George, acts of, as Regent and member of executive committee.. 5, 123, 

124, 125, 126, 128 

elected Regent, vice General Sherman 7 

Bank, First National, deposit with 9,119 

Barnard, General J. G., problems of rotary motion by 12 

Barnuni, P. T., specimens from 31,32,50 

Barometer, work on, to be undertaken 18 

Barracks, warming and ventilation of 295 

Bartram, John, antiquities of Florida 393 

Baumhauer, Professor, Smithsonian exchange-agent at Harlem 21 

Bean, T. H., specimens from 34, 51 

Becbler, G. R., explorations by 39 

Becquerel, experiments of , 193 

Belknap, Commander G. E., soundings on Tuscarora from 34,46,63 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, specimens from 32,33,51 

Bequests to the Institution 7 

Berlandier, collection of minerals from Mexico 53 

Bessels, Dr. Emil, scientific results of Polaris Arctic expedition 46 

specimens from 31, 51 

Biblioth^que Universelle, De la Rive's connection with 200 

Binney, W. G., shells referred to 36 

Birds, referred to G. N. Lawrence 36 

Birds, review of American, by Prof. S. F. Baird 13 

Birnie, Lieut. R., astronomical observations by 37 

Blackford, E. G., si;)ecimen8 from 33, 51 

Blunt, Lieut. S. E., astronomical observations by 37 

Boehmer, George H., arrangement of work on thunder and lightning by 18 

Boiling and melting points, tables by F. W. Clarke 13 

Bolton, Dr. H. Carrington, catalogue of scientific periodicals by 26 

Bones, analysis of 361 



INDEX. 403 

Page. 

Borelly, comets observed by '2G 

Bossange Gustave, Smithsonian exchange-agent at Paris 21 

Bottinical index, by Sereno Watson 1^ 

Botany. (See De Candolle, explorations.) 

Boulaq Museum, plaster cast of Tanis stone from 29 

Boyd, C. H., specimens from 33, 51 

Briggs, S. W., antiquities discovered by 364 

Brown, Solomon G., transportation clerk .6 

Bryan, Oliver N.', antiquities of Charles County, Maryland 387 

Buckland, Frank, collection of casts of fishes 33 

Burial of Indian squaw in California, account of 350 

Burmeister, Dr., specimens from 31, 32, 52 

Campbell, Archibald, additions to collections by 30, 62 

Carson, Dr., plants referred to 36 

Cases, appropriations for ■. 121, 122 

Cast of Phoibus 65 

Casts of fishes 29, 33 

Egyptian antiquities 31 

birds' skulls 32 

Catalogue of implements found in ancient graves in California 347 

scientific periodicals, by Dr. H. C. Bolton 26 

transactions of learned _societies in Smithsonian library 25 

Chandler, L. H., specimens from 33, 52 

Chase, A. W., additions to collections by 30, 52 

Chase, Hon. S. P., change in the Board on account of death of 7 

Chemical formulae, tables by F. W. Clarke 13 

laboratory, operations in 47 

Chorea, queries respecting 66 

Churches, warming and ventilation of 305 

Circular relative to Chorea 66 

Clarke, Prof. F. W., constants of nature 13, 16 

Clerks, list of, in Institution and Museum 6 

Clifford, Justice Nathan, as chancellor of Board of Regents 7 

Coast-Survey, explorations and collections by 62 

Coffin, Prof. J. H., on winds of the globe 15,17 

Coffin, Prof. Selden J., completion of work on winds by 17 

Coggia, comets observed by 26 

Coleman, J. T., specimens from 34, 53 

Coleoptera, classification of, by Dr. John L. LeConte 13 

new species of, by Dr. John L. LeCoute 13 

Collaborators In natural history 6, 36 

Collecting apparatus lent to fifteen expeditious .^.. 36 

Collections, appropriation for preservation of 121 

Colleges, warming and ventilation of 284 

Comets, detected in 1874 , 26 

La Place's method of determining orbits of 165 

research relative to 18 

Congress, appropriation by, for National Museum 9 

printing of 10,500 reports ordered by 2 

Constants of nature, part 1, specific gravities, &c., by F. W. Clarke 13 

specific heat 16 

expansion by heat for solids and liquids IG 

weight of air, &c 16 

Contributions to knowledge, account of 10 

Cooper, Dr. William A., specimen from 32, 5? 



404 INDEX. 

Page. 

Cope, Professor E. D., explorations by 38 

reptiles and fishes referred to 36 

Copp^e, Prof. Henry, acts of, as Regent 124,125,126 

elected Regent, vice Mr. Astor ,. 7 

report on National Museum , 126 

Copper mining on Lake Superior 369 

Copyright not taken on Smithsonian publications 12 

Corcoran Art Gallery, Smithsonian deposit with 44,65 

Corresponding institutions, number of foreign 22 

Couch, Gen. D. N., minerals from 35, 53 

Coues, Dr. Elliot, collaborator in mammalogy and ornithology 6 

collections and observations by 1 43 

specimens from 30,33,53 

Cox, Hon. S. S., acts of, as Regent 126, 128 

Cresson, E. T., insects referred to 36 

Creveling, James P., specimens from 34, .53 

Crustaceans, referred to S. J. Smith - 36 

Cushing, Frank H., antiquities of Orleans County, New York 375 

specimens from 53 

Cutting, Frank H., specimens from .., 31 

DaCosta, Dr. J. M., on strain and overaction of the heart 14 

Dall, W. H., collaborator in malacology 6 

specimens from 30, 32, 34, 53 

Dana, Prof. J. D., elected Regent, vice Dr. Woolsey 7 

Davenport Academy Natural Sciences, explorations by 354 

Davenport, George L., statement of, relative to ancient mounds 360 

Davis, A. C, antiquities of Isle Roy ale 369 

Davy, electrical discoveries of 190 

De Candolle, A., on a dominant language for science 239 

Prodronius systematis naturalis regni vegetabilis 269 

De la Rive, Prof. Arthur Auguste, eulogy on, by M. Dumas 184 

on Lemstriim's observations on electricity 236 

report on transactions of Geneva Society of 

Physics and Natural History 261 

De la Rive, Charles Gaspard, notice of . 185, 186 

Departments. (See Agriculture, State, War, Navy, and Interior.) 

De Saussure, Professor, monograph on American vespidse or wasps 16 

Diebitsch, Hermann, exchange clerk 6, 23 

Diptera, monograph of, Ortalidte family, by H. Loew 13 

Distribution of Smithsonian publications, rules for 11 

duplicate specimens 36, 49 

Dominant language for science, by A. De Candolle 239 

Donations. (See Library and Museum.) 

Dumas, M., eulogy on De la Rive 184 

Dundas, Mrs., of England, historical manuscripts presented by. 25 

Duplicate speciurens, distribution of 49 

DuPre, Prof. Warren, earthquakes in North Carolina 254 

Dwelliug-houses, warming and ventilation of 310 

Earthquakes, effects on tides 216 

in North Carolina, on February 10, 1874, by Professor DuPre 254 

Professor Henry's explanation of 259 

records of, in Institution 85 

Edwards, W. H., insects referred to , 36 



INDEX. 405 

Page. 

Egyptian antiquities, presented to Museum 29 

Electricity of the atmospliere in the arctic regions, Lemstrom '227 

DelaKive 236 

Electroplating, originated by De la Eive ^ 19d 

Elevations, research on, by Nicholson and Gardiner 20 

Elliott, Henry W., additions to collections by 30,31,32,54 

Emerton, J. H., insects referred to 36 

Endlich, Dr. F. M., explorations by 35 

mineralogist of National Museum 6 

specimens from 35, 54 

Engelmaun, Dr. George, plants referred to 36 

Engineers, United States, explorations by 36, 62 

Engravings and etchings deposited in Corcoran Art Gallery 65 

Escher, Arnold, account of, by De la Kive 261 

Esquimaux, ethnological collections of 27 

Estimates for the year 1875 121 

to Congress for museum appropriations 122 

Ethnology, account of additions to collections in 30 

researches in 20 

report of committee of Regents on collection of 126 

ancient graves and shell-heaps of California, by Paul Schumacher.. 335 
account of the burial of an Indian squaw, Califoruia, by W. M. 

King 350 

ancient mounds of Mercer County, Illinois, by T. McWhorter 351 

antiquities of Whiteside County, Illinois, by W. H. Pratt 354 

a study of skulls and long bones, from mounds near Albany, Illinois, 

by Dr. R. J. Farquharsou 361 

the shell-bed skull, by A. S. Tiffany 363 

antiquities of Northern Ohio, by Dr. George W. Hill 364 

the age of stone and troglodytes of Breckinridge County, Kentucky, 

by R. S. Robertson 367 

antiquities of — 

Isle Royale, Lake Superior, by A. C. Davis 369 

Yazoo County, Mississippi, by J. W. C. Smith 370 

Tennessee, by Dr. Daniel F. Wright 371 

Blount County, Tennessee, by Miss Annie E. Law 375 

Orleans County, New York, by Frank H. Cushing 375 

La Porte County, Indiana, by R. S. Robertson 377 

ii lien and De Kalb Counties, Indiana, by R.S.Robertson 3S0 

Jackson County, Tennessee, by Rev. Joshua Haile, communicated 

by James W. McHcnry 384 

Perry County, Ohio, by W. Anderson 386 

Charles County, Maryland, by Oliver N. Bryan... 387 

Stanly and Montgomery Counties, North Carolina, byF, J. Knm. 389 

Florida, by Dr. Augustus Mitchell 390 

Florida, by John Bartram 393 

California, Southern 335 

San Bernardmo County 350 

Florida 390,393 

Illinois, Mercer County 351 

Whiteside County 354,361,363 

Indiana, La Porte Coanty 377 

Allen County 380 



406 INDEX. 

Page. 
Ethnology, antiquities of — 

Indiana, De Kalb County 380 

Huntington County 380 

Kentucky, Breckinridge County 367 

Maryland, Charles County 387 ' 

Michigan, Isle Eoyale 369 

Mississipjji, Leake County 370 

Yazoo County 370 

New York, Orleans County 375 

North Carolina, Stanly and Montgomery Counties 389 

Northern Ohio 364 

Ohio, Ashland County 364 

Licking County 3()6 

Perry County 386 

Oregon 335 

Tennessee 371 

Blount County 375 

Clarksville 371 

Jackson County 384 

Monroe County 375 

(See Bessels'; Hayden; Powell; Wheeler.) 

Eulogy on La Place, by Arago - 129 

Quetelet, by Mailly 169 

De la Rive, by Du mas 184 

Everett, Prof. J. D., on under-ground temperatures . . .' 250 

Exchanges, account of system of international '21 

resolution of Eegents that aid may be received from societies, &c. 23 

rules of the system 22 

services of Miss Jane Turner 23 

services of H. Diebitsch 23 

statistics of 22, 67, 68 

Executive Committee, report of 118 

Expenditures and receipts of Smithsou fund 119 

Explorations and surveys, by Lieut. George M. Wheeler 36 

Prof. F. V. Hayden .. . 36 

Prof. J. W. Powell 40 

Archibald Campbell 42 

(See Museum.) 

Faraday, experiments of 193 

Farquharsou, Dr. R. J., study of skulls and bones from mounds in Illinois 361 

Finances of the Institution, condition of .' 9, 118 

pish commission, collections by 44,45,63 

Fish, inquiry and propagation, in charge of Professor Baird 33,44,45 

Fishes, arrangem eut of families of, by Dr. Theodore Gill 13 

referred to E. D. Cope 36 

Fitzhugh, jr., D. F., specimens from 34,54 

Flugel, Dr. Felix, Smithsonian exchange-agent in Leipsic 21 

Fog-signals, Professor Henry's investigations on 44 

Foreign centers of Smithsonian exchanges 21 

establishments in correspoudeuce with Smithsonian 22 

Foreman, Prof. Edward, collaborator in ethnology 6 

Fossils, arranged in Museum - - 35 

discovery of. (See Explorations.) 

Foster, J. G., on mound-builders' skulls 362 

Franklin, General W. B., research on steam-heaters 10 



INDEX. 407 

Page. 

FuDd, statement of the Smithsoa 9, IIB 

Gabb, Prof. William M., specimens from 30,31,32,33,54 

Gal vani, experiments of 192 

Gannett, Mr., explorations by 39 

Gardiner, J. T., explorations by 40 

research on elevations by 20 

Garfield, Hon. J. A., succeeded by Hon. E. R. Hoar, as Regent 7 

Geneva Society of Physics and Natural History, report on 261 

Geodesy. (See Explorations.) 
Geography. (See Explorations.) 
Geology. (See Explorations.) 

Geometry. Researches of La Place 129 

Gill, Dr. Theodore, arrangement of families of mammals and fishes 13 

collaborator in general zoology 6 

Glass roofs and ceilings, ventilation of 308 

Glover, T., insects referred to 36 

Goode, Prof. G. Brown, specimens from 34, 55 

zoologist of the National Museum G 

Goldsmith, Dr. M., specimens from 34, 54 

Gould, Dr. B. A., meteorological tables printed for 14 

Government exchanges, statistics of 67 

explorations and surveys, account of 36 

Grant, U. S., ex-o^cio presiding officer of the Institution -- 5 

Gray, John Edward, on a dominant language for science 247 

Gray, Prof. Asa, acts of, as Regent 124, 125, 12G 

elected Regent, vice Prof. L. Agassiz 7 

plants referred to 36 

report on National Museum 126 

Griffin, Maggie E., recording-clerk 6 

Gyroscope, General Barnard's paper on .' 12 

Hague, Henry, additions to collections by 30 

Haidah Indians, ethnological collections of 28 

J. G. Swan's paper on 13 

Haile, Rev. Joshua, antiquities of Jackson County, Tennessee 384 

ethnological specimens from 31,55 

Halls of assembly, ventilation of 321 

Hamilton, James, bequest of |1,000 to the Institution 7,8,9, 118 

Hamlin, Hon. H., acts of, as Regent 124, 126 

Harbors, tides in 207 

Hardisty, W. L., donations to Museum from 31,55 

Harmonies of the solar system, by Prof S. Alexander 14 

Hart, Dr. Charles A., specimens from 34, 55 

Harting, Dr. J. E., specimens from -. 32, 55 

Harvey, Rev. M., specimens from 31, 55 

Haydeu,Prof.F. v., additions to collections by 30,63 

explorations and surveys by 39,40 

Hays, Dr. W. W., exploration by 342 

Hazelton, Hon. G.W., appointed Regent, vice Hon. L. P. Poland 7 

acts of, as Regent 126 

Heart, Dr. DaCosta's Toner lecture on 14 

Heating-apparatus, resolution asking for appropriation for 128 

Henry, Prof. Joseph, explanation of earthquakes 259 

acts of, as secretary of Board of Regents 124, 126 

labors on the Light-House Board 48 

letter to Congress transmitting report 3 

report of, as Secretary of the Institution 1 



408 INDEX. 

Page. 

Henry, Prof. Joseph, trustee of Corcoran Art Gallery 44 

investigations on fog-signals 44 

results of experiments on sound 44 

rules for telegraphic announcements of astronomical discov- 
eries 13 

Henry, M. A., translation of eulogy on Quetelet 169 

De la Eive 184 

Herron, Joseph, janitor of National Museum G 

Hilgard, J. E.,on tides and tidal action in harbors 207 

Hill,Dr.G.W., antiquities of Northern Ohio 364 

approval of Newconib's paper on planetary motion 13 

Hoar, Hon. E. E, acts of, as Eegent 124 

appointed Eegent, vice General Garfield 7 

Hoep]i,U., Smithsonian exchange-agent at Milan 11 

Holden, Dr., insects referred to 36 

Hospitals, warming and ventilation of.'. 297 

Hubbard, Lieut. E. B., ethnological specimens from 31,56 

Illustrations to Bessels's report, appropriation for 47 

Indians, 

Blackfeet 43 

California 350 

Delawares 365 

Go-si-Utes 42 

Gros Ventres 43 

Haidah, G. J. Swan's paper on 13 

North Assinaboines 43 

Piegans 43 

Eiver Crows 43 

Sacs and Foxes 360 

Sioux 43 

U-in-tats, Unitah-utes, Seur-a-rits, She-be-riches 41 

AVyandotts ,.., 365 

(See Ethnology.) 

Indian vocabularies received from Wheeler expedition 66 

Inequality in mean motions of Jupiter and Saturn 144 

Insects, directions for collecting and preserving, by A. S. Packard, jr 13 

referred to Messrs. Packard, Scudder, Edwards, O-steusacken, Uhlcr, Ulke, 

Stretch, Cresson, Thomas, Glover, Emert on, Holden 36 

Institution, list of Eegents and members ex officio 5 

Instruments for meteorological observations 80 

Interior Department, explorations by 39, 49, 62 

Investigations. (See Eesearches.) 

Isothermal maps by Schott, published by Smithsonian Institution 17 

Jackson, W. H., explorations by 39 

James, Mr., plants, referred to 36 

Jenkins, J. H., deposits of ethnological specimens by 31, 56 

minerals from 35, 56 

Jenks, Professor, specimens from 32, 56 

Jones, Dr. Joseph, antiquities of Tennessee, by 14 

Journal of Board of Eegents 124 

.Touy, P. L., specimens from 32, .56 

Kamtscbatka, specimens from 29 

Kerrick, L. H., specimens from 32, .56 

Khedivo of Egypt, donations from 31 

King, AT. M., account of burial of Indian squaw 3.50 



INDEX. 409 

Page. 

Kjokken-mijddiugs in California 335 

Krou, T. J., antiquities of North Carolina 389 

Laboratory of the Instioutiou, investigations in 47 

La Miinyon,Mr., specimens from ,.i 32,56 

Language, a dominant, for science, De Caudolle's 239 

La Place, eulogy on, by Arago 129 

Lartet, Professor, antiquities from 31, 57 

Lawrence, George N., birds referred to 36 

Law, Dr., specimens from 32, 57 

Law, Miss Annie E., antiquities of Blount County, Tennessee 375 

Le Conte, Prof. John, constants of nature 16 

Le Conte, Dr. John L., new species and classification of Coleoptera 13 

Lecture-rooms, ventilation of 321 

Leech, Daniel, corresponding clerk of the Institution 6 

Lee, Col. F. L., specimens from 34, 57 

Lefroy, General J. H., donation of manuscripts from Mrs. Dundas, through 25 

Lemstrom, Prof. Selim, observations on electricity and the aurora 227 

Letter from Secretary to Congress transmitting report 3 

General Sherman resigning Regency 124 

Napoleon 164 

Library of Congress and Smithsonian library 23 

catalogue of " Transactions of learned societies" in 25 

Library, donations to, from — 

Argentine Confederation 24 

Board of Admiralty, London 24 

British Museum, Loudon 24 

Central Bureau of Statistics, Stockholm 25 

Company of Public Works of the Mediterranean 24 

Hydrographic department of Ministry of Marine, St. Petersburg 24 

Icelandic Literary Society 24 

Imperial Archajological Commission 24 

Medico-Chirurgical Society of Modena 25 

Ministry of Agriculture, &c.,Eome 25 

National Hungarian Museum 24 

Norwegian Government 25 

Overj'ssel Society for Promotion of Provincial Welfare, Zwolle 25 

Royal Statistical Bureau, CoiJenhagen 25 

State library of Virginia 25 

Stuart, Robert & Alexander, Nev^ York .' ., 25 

Univei'sities of Europe 24 

Veterinary School, Dorpat 24 

statistics of, for year 1874 23 

Light-House Board, Professor Henry, chairman of committee on experiments.. . 48 

labors for twenty years unremunerated.. . 48 

Lightning, work in progress on 17 

List of publications of the Institution 14 

Loew, Dr. Oscar, chemical laboratory in charge of 47 

analyses of mineral-waters, &c., by 36, 38, 47 

Loew H., monograph of Diptera 13 

Lyceums, warming and ventilation of 284 

Maclean, Rev. Dr. John, Regent of the Institution , 5 

member of executive committee 5 

Magnetism, records of, in Institution 86, 90 

Mailly, Ed., eulogy on Qnetelet 1(59 

Malacology, W. H. Dall, collaborator in 6 



410 INDEX. 

Page. 

Mammals, arrangement of families of, by Dr. Theoilore Gill , 13 

referred to H. and J. A. Alien and Dr. Sclater 36 

Manigault, G. E., specimens from 33,57 

Manufactories, warming and ventilation of i ^90 

Manuscripts from Mrs. Dundas, account of, by Mr. Spofford 25 

Marine invertebrates, referred to A. E. Verrill 36 

Marshall, Lieut. W. M., surveys by 37 

Marvin, A. R., explorations by 39 

Mason, Prof. Otis T., collaborator in ethnology 6 

Materialism, doctrines of 192 

Mather, Frederick, specimens from 34. 58 

Mauritius, specimens from 29 

Maxwell, Mrs. M. A., specimens from 32, 58 

McBride, R. W., explorations by 381 

McHenry, James W., antiquities of Jaclisou County, Tennessee 384 

McReynolds, W. T., specimens from 374 

McWhorter, Tyler, ancient mounds of Mercer County, Illinois 351 

M^cauique Celeste, exposition of La Place's 129 

Meek, Prof. F. B., collaborator in the invertebrate paljeontology g 

specimens from 33, 58 

Meigs, General M. C, ethnological specimens from 31, 58 

Members ex officio of the Institution 5 

Metallurgical collection of the Institution 35 

Meteorology, classified record of, auroras 77 

instruments 80 

meteors 81 

miscellaneous 85 

rain 83 

wind ' 85 

local 87 

Africa 87 

Asia 87 

Australia 88 

Central America 8S 

Europe 89 

North America 90 

Polynesia 115 

South America 115 

West Indies 116 

transfer of Smithsonian system to United States Signal-Office 16 

(See Bessels ; Quetelet; Wheeler; Hayden ; Powell.) 

Meteors, records of, in Institution 81 

Microscopic material referred to Messi's. Smith & Seaman 36 

Milner, James W., new species of fish described by 28 

shad batching and distribution by 46 

Mineralogy. (See Endlich ; Explorations.) 

Mineral-waters referred to Doctor Loew ., 36 

Minerals, examination of 35, 36 

Miscellaneous collections, account of 10,11,13 

Mitchell, Dr. Aug., antiquities of Florida 390 

Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir, queries by, in regard to chorea 66 

Mont Blanc, De la Rive's studies of 199 

Mounds. (See Ethnology.) 

Mountains, eifect of vapors on 199 

Mulier,F., Smithsonian exchange-agent in Amsterdam 21 



INDEX. 411 

Page. 

Mnseum, National, list of oflScers and assistants in 6 

additions to collections in 1874 50 

condition of funds of 121 

appropriations for 10) 27, 121 

account of 27 

increase of 27 

completion of cases for 27, 121 

distribution of duplicates of 36, 49 

entries in record-books 49 

report of Professors Gray and Copp6e on condition of 12G 

work done in , 35 

geographical list of additions from — 

Alaska 27 

Arctic mainland 27 

Arizona 2^^ 

California 28 

Central America 29 

Central United States 28 

Colorado 28 

Cuba 29 

Dakota 28 

Eastern United States 28 

Europe 29 

Florida 28 

Greenland 27 

Mexico 29 

Miscellaneous 29 

Montana 28 

Newfoundland 29 

New Mexico 23 

Northern Ocean 27 

Oregon 28 

Other parts of the world 29 

Queen Charlotte's Island 27 

South America 29 

Utah 28 

Washington Territory 27 

systematic list of additions 29 

Birds 32 

Eggs 32 

Ethnology 30 

Fishes 33 

Insects 34 

Mammals 31 

Marine invertebrates 34 

Minerals 35 

Plants 34 

Reptiles 33 

Shells 34 

Soundings 34 

Myer, General A. J., meteorological system of United States Signal-Service 16 

Napoleon, letters of, relative to La Place 164 

National Museum. (See Museum.) 

Natural history report on Geneva Society transactions 261 

researches in 20 

(See Explorations.) 



412 , INDEX. 

Page. 
Navy Department, deep-sea soundings 46 

explorations by 46, 62, 63 

Navy of United States, collections made by 29 

Nebular hypothesis 161 

Newcomb, Prof. S.,on general integrals of planetary motion 13 

on orbit of Uranus 12 

Newton, Prof. H. A., aj)proval of Newcomb's paper on planetary motion 13 

Nichols, Dr. C. H., specimens from 32,58 

Nicholson , W. L., research on elevations, by 20 

Observatory, Brussels, history of 174 

Oersted, electrical discoveries of 187 

Officers of the Institution and National Museum 6 

Oluey, Mr., plants referred to 36 

Orfila's tables of bone analysis 361 

Ostensacken, Baron E., insects referred to 36 

Ozone, De la Rive's theory of 197 

Packard, Prof. A. S., jr., directions for collecting and preserving insects 13 

insects referred to 36 

Pagenstecker, Professor, specimens from 31,55 

Paintings deposited in Co7-coran Art Gallery 65 

Palaeontology. (See Wheeler ; Hayden ; Powell ; Meek ; Geneva Society.) 

Palisa, M., asteroids discovered by 26 

Palmer, Joseph, taxidermist of the National Museum 6 

Parker, Hon. Peter, acts of, as Regent 124,125,126,128 

report of executive committee 123, 126 

Pendulum, General Barnard's paper on 12 

Periodicals, catalogue of scientific, by Dr. Bolton 26 

Perrotin,M., asteroids discovered by 26 

Peters, Dr. C. H. F., asteroids discovered by 26 

Phiuney, Captain , specimens from 34, .59 

Photographic laboratory in charge of T. W. Smillie 47 

Photography. (See Wheeler ; Hayden ; Powell ; Smillie.) 

Physics, report on Geneva Society transactions 261 

Pike, Capt. N., specimeus from 30, 34, .59 

Planetary motion, general integrals of, by Prof. S. Newcomb 13 

Plants referred to Messrs. Gray, Rothrock, Vasey, Engelmann, Olney, James, 

and Carson 36 

Poey, Prof. Felipe, specimens from 34, 59 

Polaris Arctic exploration, scientific results of 46 

Poland, Hon. L. P., succeeded by Hon. G. W. Hazelton as Regent 7 

Portraits deposited in Corcoran Art Gallery 65 

Potts, John, specimens from 33,59 

Powell, Prof. Baden, translation of Arago's eulogy on La Place 129 

Powell, Prof. J. W., explorations and surveys by 40 

additions to collections by 30,63 

Pratt, W. H., antiquities of Whiteside County, Illinois 354 

Precession of the equi noxes. General Barnard's paper on 12 

Printing of ten thousand five hundred copies of report ordered by Congress 2 

Privies, ventilation of 312 

Probabilities, La Place's theory of 163 

Prodromus systematis naturalis regni vegetabilis, De CandoUe's 200 

Publications of the Institution, account ot 10, 12 

listof - 14 

rules of distribution 11 

Publishers' trade-list, annual 14 

Queseda, John, specimens from 33, 59 



INDEX. 413 

Page. 

Qnetelet, eulogy on, by Ed. Mailly 169 

Railroad-statious, warmiug and ventilatiou of 30G 

Raiu-fall, publication on 17 

Rain, records of, in Institution 83 

Receipts and expenditures of Snuitlison fund 119 

Regents, journal of proceedings of, January 20 and 23, 1875 124 

of the Institution, list of 5 

board of, changes in the 7 

resolution of regret at resignation of General Sherman 125 

resolution appointing Hon. George Bancroft on executive com- 
mittee 125 

resolution charging loss by theft to iucideutals 125 

resolution appointing Professors Gray and Copp^e committee to 

report on Museum 12G 

resolution adopting report of executive committee 126 

resolution adopting report of Committee on Museum 126 

resolution asking Congress for $2,500 for additional heating- 
apparatus 128 

resolution adopting and transmitting to Congress report of 

Secretary 128 

Religion and science, Dela Eive on 203 

Repayments to Smithson fund 120 

Report of De la Rive on Geneva Society transactions 2G1 

of executive committee 118 

of Professor Henry, Secretary, for the year 1874 7 

printing often thousand five hundi'ed extras ordered by Congress 2 

to Congress, account of 10, 11 

to British government on claims of those loyal to British Crown during 

revolutionary war 25 

Reptiles referred to E. D. Cope 36 

Research, plan of original 8 

Researches, account of 16 

comets, by Prof. O. Stone 18 

elevations, by W. L. Nicholson and Mr. Gardiner 20 

meteorology , 17 

natural history and ethnology 20 

steam-heaters, by General W. B. Franklin and C. B. Richards 19 

Reuss, Dr., specimens from 33, 60 

Revenue-marine, explorations and collections by 62 

Revolutionary claimants, loyal to British Crown 25 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk of the Institution 6 

Richards, C. B., research on steam-heaters 19 

Ridgway, Robert, ornithologist of National Museum 6 

Riggs & Co., sale of Virginia coupons by 10, 119 

Robertson, R, S., age of stone and troglodytes of Kentucky 367 

antiquities of Allen and DeKalb Counties, Indiana 380 

antiquities of La Porte County, Indiana 377 

Robeson, Hon. G. M., specimens from 33,60 

Rolleston, Professor, Saxon antiquities from 31 

Rothrock, Dr. J. T., natural history explorations by 37 

plants referred to 36 

Royal Danish Society, Copenhagen, Smithsonian exchange-agency 21 

Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, Smithsonian exchange-agency.. 21 

Royal University of Norway, Christiania, Smithsonian exchange-agency 21 

Rules of distribution of Smithsonian publications 11 



414 

INDEX. 

Russell, Mr., specimens from ^. Page. 

Saiiit Vitus's tlanco, queries iu regard to ' ^^'60 

lfZZ)T'"\"'^' ""' ^"'''^' ^'''''' ^^^«^ c^^mi^^iou:: '' 

bamoan Islands, specimens from.. 46 

Saudberger, Mr., sbells referred to.".'.". *. •- 29 

Sandstone arrow-beads 36 

Sargeut,Hon.A.A.,actsona7Regent'*.".'."." ' 384 

S,,, r n • «^*^«'«*i K^gent, vice Senator'Trumbuli ' ^^^'^^^ 

bars, G.O., specimens from .... "'^loiui ^ 

Scammon,Capt. CM., specimens from ^4,60 

Scbools, warming and ventilation of ^l-^O 

Scliott,Cbarles A., temperature-tables, by .".''"!!'." -'3 

o, , <"i ""der-ground temperatures ^^' ^^ 

Schumacher, Paul, additions to collections by 249 

Science and r.li • """'i*",* ^T'' '"^ «l^«"-l^eaps o/califoiuia."".: ^%T^ 

science and religion, De la Rive on ^^^ 

as element in advan^e'of modern chilizaii'o'n ^^« 

<;,,, T^ ^"^ *-^"doll« on a dominant languao-e for o„!^ 

Sclater, Dr., mammals referred to . «»'i=e lor j,3g 

Scudder, S. H., insects referred to ^6 

Seaman, Prof W. H., microscopic niatVnalVefei^^d'to ''^ 

Sbad-batehing, by United States Fish Commission '^ 

bhell-heaps. (See Ethnology) 45 

Shells, refeiTed to Messrs. Tryon, Binney, and Sandber^er 

Sherman, Gen. William T..]etterfrom,resigningRegerre" ,f, 

Signal-Service United StatrZ^:tir;^^::--^-^e^ 

Skull, shell-bed, by A. S. Tiffany *'''°'^'' "^ "meteorological system^ t'o! :;.";::: ig 

Skulls, study of, by Dr. E. J. FarquharJon ^^^ 

Slack, Dr. James H., shad-hatching by ^61 

Smillie,T. Wpbotographer of National MuVeum". , ^^ 

Smith, Captain, dredgings from 6,47 

sS'Jw c'"- ":■ ™r--i- e;;mh;a;u;i;;;^;ou;;^;y;:::;: -- _. f. 

Sm b'^* r' ' '""*"1"^^'«« «^ Yazoo County, Miss .° ^"'^^t^^ 

^mitn, b. J., crustaceans referred to "^'^ 

Smithsou, bequest of, and condition of fund ^^ 

Snyder, Dr. J. F., ethnological specimens from ^' ^^^ 

Solar system, harmonies of, by Prof S.Alexander ^^'^^ 

Somemlle, Madame, account of, by De La Rive ^^ 

Sound, Professor Henry's investigations relative to'" ^^^ 

Soundings, deep-sea, by United States Fish Commission l." " ^^ 

„ . ,. Navy Department.... '^^ 

Specialists to examine natural-history specimens." ^^ 

Specific gravities, tables by F. W. Clarke. '^^ 

heats, tables by F."w. Clarke ^3 

Squeezes from Egyptian antiquities received ^^ 

Squier, E. G., antiquities of Orleans County, nJw Yo/k ^^ 

Stables, ventilation of. J-, >ew lorK 3^5 

b atiotics. (See Quetelet, Exchanges, Museum, and Library) ' 

Steam-heater^^^ .._,, ,„, ,^ ^^; ,^. ^ -^^ ^^^ ^ ^ ^^^^ 

19 



INDEX. 415 

Page. 

Steam-heatiDg apparatus, appropriation for 122 

Steamship companies granting free freights 21 

Steiuberger, A. B., collections from Samoau Islands ;U,32, 61 

S:ereotypiug of Smithsonian publications 12 

Sternberg, Hon. Charles H., plants from 34,61 

Stevens, Ur. R. P., plants from 34, 61 

Stevenson, Hon. J. W., acts of, as Regent 12(j 

Stevenson, James, specimens from 32, 61 

Stone age. (See Ethnology.) 

Stone, Gen. Charles P., Egyptian antiquities from 31,61 

Stone, Prof. Orraond, researches on Tuttlo's comet by IB 

Stone, Livingston, salmon-hatching by 46 

specimens from 34,61 

Stretch, Mr., insects referred to = 36 

Stuari, Robert and Alexander, donation of books to library from 25 

Sanuchrast, Prof. F., specimens from 32,33,61 

Sur.<ieon General's Office, specimens deposited in 36 

Swan, James G., additions to collections by 30,61 

on the Haidah Indians 13 

Swedish expedition to the North Pole 227 

Tables, physical and meteorological, printed for Dr. Gould 14 

Tables. (See Clarke.) 

Tauis or Canopus Stone, cast of, presented by Khedive of Egypt 31 

Telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries 13,26 

Temperature of the earth, by Schott and Everett 249 

United States, publication on 15, 17 

Tennessee, antiquities of, by Dr. Joseph Jones 14 

Theaters, ventilation of 323 

Theft from office of Secretary 125 

Thomas, Cyrus, insects referred to 36 

Thompson, John H., specimens from 34,61 

Thompson, Prof. A. H., exploration by 40 

Thunder-storms, work in progress on 17 

Tide-gauges 214 

Tides and tidal action in harbors, by Prof. J. E. Hilgard 207 

Tides, theory of 1^4 

Tiffany, A. S., account of shell-bed skull from Illinois 363 

exploration by 358 

Toner lectnres, publication of 14 

Topographical map of the United States 20 

Topography. (See Wheeler, Hayden, Powell, Campbell.) 

Tornadoes, records of, in Institution 85 

Transactions of learned societies in library, catalogue of 25 

Transportation companies granting free freights 21 

Treasurer of United States, arrangement with, for deposit of funds 9, 10 

Treasury Department, (explorations by ^2 

Trinity College, Dublin, collection of casts of lishes 33 

' Troglodytes. (See Ethnology.) 

Trumbull, Hon. L., succeeded by Senator Sargent as Regent -• 7 

Tryon, G. W., shells referred to 3b 

Turner, L. M., specimens from 32, 61 

Turner, Miss Jane A., in charge of exchanges received 23 

Turnstile, to record number of visitors, suggested by committee. -. 128 

Tuscarora, soundings made by 29 

Tuttle's comet, researches on, by Prof. O. Stone 1^'^ 

Twining, Maj. W. J., astronomical observations by 43 

Uhler, P. R.j insects referred to 36 



416 INDEX. 

Ulke, Henry, insects referred to ''og 

Under-ground temperature, by C. A. Schott and Professor Everett 249 

United States Fish Commissioner, additions to collections by 30 63 

Universe, present conception of jg^ 

University, national, proper ideas of y 

Universities, European, donations of books from 24 

Uranus, orbit of, paper on, by Prof S. Newcomb 12 

Vasey, Dr. George, plants referred to 3g 

Veuabel, Judge, exploration by 342 

Ventilation and warming, by A. Morin 272 

Venus, transit of, scientific expeditious to observe 146 

collections from expeditions 34 

Verrill,Prof. A. E., fish inquiry and propagation 45 

marine invertebrates referred to 36 

VespidsB, monograph on, by De Saussure 16 

Vienna Zoological Museum, specimeus from 31 62 

Virginia bonds of the Institution , 9 10 hh 119 

Vocabularies of Indian tribes, received from Wheeler expedition 68 

Volta, experiments of 192 

Vouchers, examination and approval of 123 

Waite, Chief-Justice M. R., acts of, as Eegent 124 12G 

elected chancellor 7 

War Department, explorations by 36 62 

Warming and ventilation, by A. Morin 272 

Warming buildings, relative efficiency of steam-heaters for 19 

Wasps, monograph on,by De Saussure 16 

Water-closets, ventilation of 312 

Watkins &. Co., Smithsonian exchange-agent of St. Petersburgh 21 

Wat8on,Prof. J. C, asteroids discovered by j, -26 

plan adopted by, for discovery of asteroids 26 

Watson, Sereno, botanical index by 16 

Webster, Prof. H. E., specimens from 33 64 

Wesley an University, specimens from 32 58 

Wesley, William, Smithsonian exoliange-agent in London. 21 

Whipple, Lieut. C. W., astronomical observations by „ 37 

Wheeler, Lieut., G.M., additions to collections by 30,3.3,62 

analysis of mineral springs, rocks, &c.,for 47 

explorations by 36 

Indian vocabularies from 66 

Wilson, Hon. Henry, acts of, as Regent 124 

letter of Professor Henry to, transmitting report 3 

Wind, records of, in Institution 85 

Winds of the globe, by Prof. J. H. Coffin 15,17 

Winnecke, comets observed by 26 

Woeikoff, Dr. A., work on the winds of the globe, by 17 

Wood, jr., Dr. Horatio C.,on fresh- water algfe 12 

Woolsey, Prof T. D., succeeded by Professor Dana as Regent 7 

Workshops, warming and ventilation of , 284 ' 

Wright, Bryce M., specimens from 32, 64 

Wright, Dr. D. F., antiquities of Tennessee 371 

Wyman, Prof Jeffries, characteristics of mound-builders, by .' 362 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C, explorations by 38 

Yates, Dr. L. G., specimens from 31,64 

Young, Clarence B., book-keeper of the Institution -6 

translation of Morin on warming and ventilation 272 

Zoological Museum, Copenhagen, models of fish- weirs from 34,53 

O 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 




3 9088 01421 6337 









