ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF REGENTS OF 

THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION 

SHOWING THE 

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND 
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 

1938 




(Publication 3491) 



UNITED STATES 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON : 1939 



For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. Price 31.50 (cloth cover) 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, December 9, 1938. 
To the Congress oj the United States: 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
ended June 30, 1938. I have the honor to be, 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

C. G. Abbot, Secretary. 
Ill 



CONTENTS 

Page. 

List of officials ix 

Outstauding events 1 

Summary of the .year's activities of the branches of the Institution 2 

The establishment 6 

The Board of Regents 6 

Finances 8 

Matters of general interest 8 

The Smithsonian Gallery of Art 8 

Smithsonian radio program 9 

Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship 11 

Smithsonian Institution exhibit at the Paris International Exposition, 

1937 11 

Seventh Arthur lecture 12 

Explorations and field work 12 

Publications 14 

Library 14 

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum 17 

2. Report on the National Gallery of Art 29 

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts 37 

4. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 43 

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology 49 

6. Report on the International Exchange Service 57 

7. Report on the National Zoological Park 67 

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 99 

9. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms 105 

10. Report on the library 109 

11. Report on pubUcations 115 

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents 121 

GENERAL APPENDIX 

New conceptions of the universe and of matter, by Gabriel Louis-Jaray.- 129 

The nature of the nebulae, by Edwin Hubble 137 

The sun and the atmosphere, by Harlan T. Stetson 149 

Cosmic radiation, by P. Mi S. Blackett 175 

A world of change, by Edward R. Weidlein 187 

Transmutation of matter, by Lord Rutherford . 201 

Science and the unobservable, by H. Dingle -'09 

Some aspects of nuclear physics of possible interest in biological work, by 

L. A. DuBridge 227 

Electron theory, by R. G. Kloeffler 241 

Geology in national and everyday life, by George R. Mansfield 257 

The floor of the ocean, by P. G. H. Boswell 275 

Ice ages, by Sir George Simpson.. 289 

V 



VI CONTENTS 

Page 
Soil erosion: The growth of the desert in Africa and elsewhere, by Sir 

Daniel Hall 303 

The future of paleontology, by Joseph A. Cushman 317 

The meteorology of great floods in the eastern United States, by Charles F. 

Brooks and Alfred H. Thiessen 325 

Eyes that shine at night, by Ernest P. Walker 349 

The Chinese mitten crab, by A. Panning 361 

The biology of light-production in arthropods, by N. S. Rustum Maluf 377 

The black widow spider, by Fred E. D' Amour, Frances E. Becker, and 

Walker van Riper 405 

The language of bees, by K. von Frisch 423 

Forest genetics, by Lloyd Austin 433 

The story of the maidenhair tree, by Sir Albert C. Seward 441 

The water-culture method for growing plants without soil, by D. R. Hoag- 

land and D. I. Arnon 461 

"Root-pressure" — an unappreciated force in sap movement, by Philip R. 

White 489 

The reproduction of virus proteins, by W. M. Stanley 499 

Modern medicine— the crossroads of the social and the physical sciences, by 

Charles Austin Doan 511 

History and stratigraphy in the Valley of Mexico, by George C. Vaillant-. 521 

The Folsom problem in American archeology, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. _ 531 

The Roman Orient and the Far East, by C. G. Seligman 547 

An ancient Chinese capital: Earthworks at Old Ch'ang-an, by Carl Whiting 

Bishop 569 

The natural h'mits to human flight, by H. E. Wimperis 579 

The historic American merchant marine, by Frank A. Taylor 595 



LIST OF PLATES 



Secretary's Report: Page 

Plates 1, 2 44 

Nebulae (Hubble): 

Plate 1 148 

The sun and the atmosphere (Stetson) : 

Plates 1-3 174 

Nuclear physics (DuBridge) : 

Plates 1, 2 240 

Ice ages (Simpson) : 

Plate 1 298 

Soil erosion (Hall) : 

Plates 1, 2 316 

Eyes that shine at night (Walker) : 

Plate 1 (color) 354 

Mitten crab (Panning): 

Plates 1-9 376 

Black widow spider (D'Amour et al.): 

Plates 1-5 422 

Forest genetics (Austin): 

Plates 1-3 440 

Growing plants without soil (Hoagland and Arnon): 

Plates 1-7 488 

Root-pressure (White): 

Plate 1 498 

Valley of Mexico (Vaillant) : 

Plates 1-13 530 

Folsom problem (Roberts): 

Plates 1-15 546 

Roman Orient (Seligman): 

Plates 1-4 568 

Ancient Chinese capital (Bishop) : 

Plates 1-4 578 

Limits to human flight (Wimperis): 

Plate 1_ 694 

American Merchant Marine Survey (Taylor): 

Plates 1-11 600 

vn 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

June 30, 1938 

Presiding officer ex officio. — Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United 

States. 
Chancellor. — Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States. 
Members of the Institution: 

Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States. 

John N. Garner, Vice President of the United States. 

Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States. 

CoRDELL Hull, Secretary of State. 

Henry Morgenthau, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury. 

Henry Hines Woodring, Secretary of War. 

Homer S. Cummings, Attorney General. 

James A. Farley, Postmaster General. 

Claude A. Swanson, Secretary of the Navj\ 

Harold L. Ickes, Secretary of the Interior. 

Henry A. Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture. 

Daniel C. Roper, Secretary of Commerce. 

Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor. 
Regents of the Institution: 

Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

John N. Garner, Vice President of the United States. 

M. M. Logan, Member of the Senate. 

Charles L. McNary, Member of the Senate. 

Alben W. Barkley, Member of the Senate. 

T. Alan Goldsborough, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Charles L. Gifford, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Clarence Cannon, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Frederic A. Delano, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

John C. Merriam, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

R. Walton Moore, citizen of Virginia. 

Roland S. Morris, citizen of Pennsylvania. 

Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey. 

Arthur H. Compton, citizen of Illinois. 
Executive committee. — Frederic A. Delano, John C. Merriam, R. Walton 

Moore. 
Secretary. — Charles G. Abbot. 
Assistant Secretary. — Alexander Wetmore. 
Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — Harry W. Dorsey. 
Treasurer. — Nicholas W. Dorsey. 
Editor. — Webster P. True. 
Librarian. — William L. Corbin. 
Personnel officer. — Helen A. Olmsted. 
Property clerk. — James H. Hill. 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Keeper ex officio. — Charles G. Abbot. 

Assistant Secretary (in charge). — Alexander Vv^etmore. 

Associate director. — John E. Graf. 

IX 



X ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

scientific staff 

Department of Anthropology: 

Frank M. Setzler, head curator; W. H. Egberts, chief preparator. 
Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; H. B. Collins, Jr., associate 
curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator. 

Section of Musical Instruments: Hugo Worch, custodian. 
Section of Ceramics: Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator. 
Division of Archeology : Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, assistant 
curator; R. G. Paine, aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary assistant cura- 
tor of Old World archeology. 
Division of Physical Anthropology: Ale§ Hrdli6ka, curator; T. Dale 
Stewart, assistant curator. 

Collaborators in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy; D. I. Bush- 

nell, Jr. 
Associate in historic archeology: Cyrus Adler. 
Department op Biology: 

Leonhard Stejneger, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist. 
Division of Mammals: Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator; Remington Kellogg, 
assistant curator; H. Harold Shamel, senior scientific aid; A. Brazier 
Howell, collaborator. 
Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; J. H. Riley, associate cura- 
tor; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collections; 
Casey A. Wood, collaborator; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator. 
Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, curator; Doris 

M. Cochran, assistant curator. 
Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. D. Reid, aid. 
Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin, 
curator; WiUiam Schaus, honorary assistant curator; B. Preston Clark, 
collaborator. 

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist- 
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian. 
Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian. 
Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection. 
Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator. 
Section of Hemiptera: W. L. McAtee, acting custodian. 
Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian. 
Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoe- 
maker, assistant curator; James O. Maloney, aid; Mrs. Harriet Rich- 
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; Maj'nard M. 
Metcalf, collaborator; J. Percy Moore, collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, 
collaborator in Foraminifera; Charles Branch Wilson, collaborator in 
Copepoda. 
Division of MollusJcs: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, assistant 
curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison, senior scientific aid; Mary Breen, col- 
laborator. 
Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator. 

Division of Plants {National Herbarium): W. R. Maxon, curator; Ells- 
worth P. Killip, associate curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator; 
Conrad V. Morton, aid; Egbert H. Walker, aid; John A. Stevenson, 
custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collection. 
Section of Grasses: Agnes Chase, custodian. 
Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator. 



ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 XI 

Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian. 
Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian. 
Section of Diatoms: Paul S. Conger, custodian. 
Associates in Zoology: C. Hart Merriam, Mary J. Rathbun, C. W. Stiles, 

Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall. 
Associate Curator in Zoology: Hugh M. Smith. 
Associate in Marine Sediments: T. Wayland Vaughan. 
Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark. 
Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham. 
Department of Geology: 

R. S. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid. 
Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (systematic and applied): W. F. 
Foshag, curator; Edward P. Henderson, assistant curator; Bertel O. 
Reberholt, senior scientific aid. 
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; Frank L. 

Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths. 
Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles E. Resser, curator; Gustav 
A. Cooper, assistant curator; Margaret W. Moodey, aid for Springer 
collection. 

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of 
Mesozoic collection; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection. 
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; C. Lewis 

Gazin, assistant curator: Norman H. Boss, chief preparator. 
Associate in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller. 
Associate in Paleontology: E. O. Ulrich. 
Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross. 
Department of Arts and Industries: 

Carl W. Mitman, head curator. 
Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator. 

Section of Mechanical Technology: Frank A. Taylor, in charge; Fred 

C. Reed, scientific aid. 
Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, assistant curator. 
Section of Mineral Technology: Carl W. Mitman, in charge. 
Division of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Mrs. E. W. Rosson, aid. 
Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, assistant curator. 
Section of Organic Chemistry: 
Division of Medicine: Charles Whitebread, assistant curator. 
Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator. 

Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, assistant curator. 
Division of History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, assistant curator; 
Mrs. C. L. Manning, philatelist. 

Administrative Staff 

Chief of correspondence and documents. — H. S. Bryant. 

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents. — L. E. Commerford. 

Superintendent of buildings and labor. — R. H. Trembly. 

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor. — Charles C. Sinclair. 

Editor. — Paul H. Oehser. 

Engineer. — C. R. Denmark. 

Accountant and auditor. — N. W. Dorsey. 

Photographer. — A. J. Olmsted. 

Property clerk. — Lawrence L. Oliver. 

Assistant librarian. — Leila F. Clark. 



Xn ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Trustees: 

The Chief Justice of the United States. 

The Secretart of State. 

The Secretary of the Treasury. 

The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Paul Mellon. 

David K. E. Bruce. 

Duncan Phillips. 

Donald D. Shepard. 

Ferdinand L. Belin. 
President. — Paul Mellon. 
Vice president. — David K. E. Bruce. 
Secretary and treasurer. — Donald D. Shepard. 
Director. — David E. Finley. 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 
Acting director. — Ruel P. Tolman, 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Director. — John Ellerton Lodge. 
Associate in archeology. — Carl Whiting Bishop. 
Assistant director. — Grace Dunham Guest. 
Associate in research. — Archibald G. Wenley. 
Swperintendeni. — John Bundy. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

ChieJ. — Matthew W. Stirling. 

Senior ethnologists. — John P. Harrington, Truman Michelson, John R. 

SWANTON. 

Senior archeologist. — Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 
Senior anthropologist. — Julian H. Steward. 
Editor. — Stanley Searles. 
Librarian. — Miriam B. Ketchum. 
Illustrator. — Edwin G. Cassedy. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES 

Secretary (in charge). — Charles G. Abbot. 
Chief clerk. — Coates W. Shoemaker. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 



Director. — William M. Mann. 
Assistant director. — Ernest P. Walker. 



ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 



Director. — Charles G. Abbot. 
Assistant director. — Loyal B. Aldrich. 
Senior astrophysicist. — William H. Hoover. 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19:58 XIJI 

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS 

Director. — Charles G. Abbot. 

Assistant director. — Earl S. Johnston. 
Senior physicist. — Edward D. McAlister. 
Senior mechanical engineer. — Leland B. Clark. 
Associate plant physiologist. — Florence E. Meier. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

C. G. ABBOT 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1938 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to submit herewith my report showing 
the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and the 
Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the fiscal 
year ended June 30, 1938. The first 15 pages contain a summary ac- 
count of the affairs of the Institution, and appendixes 1 to 11 give 
more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, the 
National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the 
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the In- 
ternational Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysi- 
cal Observatory, the Division of Radiation and Organisms, the Smith- 
sonian library, and of the publications issued under the direction of 
the Institution. On page 121 is the financial report of the executive 
committee of the Board of Regents. 

OUTSTANDING EVENTS 

The past year witnessed a further stimulus to the art feature of the 
Smithsonian Institution in the passage by Congress of a resolution, 
authorizing the President to designate a tract of land on the Mall for 
a Smithsonian Gallery of Art and authorizing an appropriation of 
$40,000 to obtain preliminary plans for such a building. It is the 
expectation that the building itself will be financed by private funds. 
The year also marked the completion of the foundations of the new 
National Gallery of Art now under construction which is to house 
the Andrew W. Mellon art collection given by Mr. Mellon to the 
Nation through the Smithsonian Institution. The building is ex- 
pected to be completed in 1940, The Smithsonian solar observing 
station on Mount St. Katherine in Egypt was abandoned owing to the 
excessive isolation of that station and other cogent reasons, and con- 
struction of a new station on Burro Mountain near Tyrone in New 
Mexico was begun. June 1938 marked the completion of 2 full years 
of the Smithsonian radio progi-am in cooperation with the United 
States Office of Education. These educational broadcasts have con- 



1 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

tinued in favor with a very large listening audience as witnessed by 
the nearly quarter of a million letters received as the result of the 
< program. 

Among the large amount of material received by the National 
Museum, an outstanding accession is a collection of mollusks obtained 
through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund which numbered well 
over a million specimens. The Bureau of American Ethnology dis- 
patched an expedition to South America to make extensive studies of 
the Indian tribes of the western part of that continent. New ap- 
paratus and new methods have been developed in the Division of 
Kadiation and Organisms, and investigations have yielded important 
results particularly in the field of photosynthesis. 

The Board of Eegents lost three of its members by death, Senator 
Joseph T. Eobinson, Ambassador Robert W. Bingham, and Augustus 
P. Loring. To fill the vacancies thus created, three new members were 
appointed, nam.ely, Senator Alben W. Barkley, of Kentucky; Dr. 
Harvey N. Da^as, of New Jersey; and Dr. Arthur H. Compto'n, of 
Illinois. 

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OP THE 

INSTITUTION 

National Museum.— The total appropriation for the maintenance 
of the Museum was $775,720, an actual increase of $11,750 over the 
previous year. Specimens added to the collections, mainly as gifts 
or through Smithsonian expeditions, numbered 312,729. In this 
large amount of new material some of the more important accessions 
were as follows: In anthropology, nearly a hundred vessels and frag- 
ments from Honduras, obtained by the joint expedition with the 
Peabody Museum of Harvard University, and other archeological 
collections from Denmark, South Africa, and the Temple Mound in 
Le Flore County, Okla.; in biology, large additions to the collec- 
tions of mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, marine invertebrates, and 
insects, the latter including 54,000 insects transferred from the United 
States Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine; in geology, 
specimens representing 62 distinct meteoric falls, largely purchased 
by the Roebling Fund, 790 specimens pertaining to mineraloo-y and 
petrology obtained through the Chamberlain Fund and the clnfield 
Fund, and an unparalleled collection of Devonian invertebrates made 
by Dr. G. Arthur Cooper and Preston Cloud in the Lower Peninsula 
of Michigan; in arts and industries, the first cable car to operate in 
Seattle, Wash. (1889), presented by the city of Seattle, 1,500 speci- 
mens pertaining to textiles, and a number of models of famous air- 
planes added to the aeronautical collection; and in history, more 
than 2,500 objects of historic and antiquarian value, including a num- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY S 

ber of objects relating to the scientific career of Dr. Charles D. Wal- 
cott, fourth Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the gift of 
Mrs. Walcott. A number of expeditions went out during the year 
in the interests of the Museum's researches in anthropology, biology, 
and geology. These were financed principally by Smithsonian pri- 
vate funds or by the assistance of friends of the Museum. Seventeen 
special exhibitions were held during the year under the auspices of 
various educational, scientific, and governmental agencies. The 
number of visitors to the several Museum buildings totaled 2,408,170, 
an increase of 119,638 over the previous year. The Museum pub- 
lished an annual report, 5 bulletins, and 19 Proceedings separates. 

National GaUery of Art. — The first annual report of the National 
Gallery of Art reviews the establislmient of the Gallery by joint reso- 
lution of Congress following the munificent gift to the Nation by the 
late Andrew W. Mellon of his great collection of art works, together 
with funds for the erection of a gallery building and for an endow- 
ment. The trustees aimounced the death of Andrew W. Mellon and 
S. Parker Gilbert, leaving two vacancies on the board which were 
filled by the election of Paul Mellon and Ferdinand Lammot Belin 
as general trustees. An organization meeting of the trustees was 
held on March 9, 1938, at which bylaws were adopted and executive 
officers were elected as follows: Paul Mellon, president; David K. E. 
Bruce, vice president; Donald D. Shepard, secretary and treasurer; 
and David E. Finley, director. Executive, acquisitions, and finance 
committees were named. At the close of the fiscal year the founda- 
tions of the gallery were substantially completed, and it is expected 
that the building will be completed by September 1940. A list of 
the paintings in the Mellon collection, noM^ in storage at the Corcoran 
Gallery of Art, is presented in the report. 

National Collection of Fine Arts. — The National Collection of 
Fine Arts is the name used to designate the art collections adminis- 
tered by the Smithsonian Institution with the exception of those 
that will be included in the National Gallery of Art, now under con- 
struction. A bill authorizing the Institution to obtain plans for a 
building to contain these collections and to be known as the "Smith- 
sonian Gallery of Art" was passed at the last session of Congress. 
The bill also authorized the President to select a site for the gallery 
on the Mall between Fourth and Fourteenth Streets and authorized 
the soliciting of funds for its construction and for an endowment 
for the purchase of works of art. The seventeenth annual meeting 
of the National Gallery of Art Commission was held on December 7, 
1937. As the name "National Gallery of Art" has been assigned to 
the gallery building now being erected to contain the Mellon art col- 
lections, the name of the Commission was changed to "Smithsonian 

114728—39 2 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

Art Commission." A wood gravure of "Rockwell Studio," by Ma- 
cowin Tuttle, was accepted by the Commission for the collection. 
Five miniatures were acquired through the Catherine Walden Myer 
fund. Six special exliibitions were held as follows: The art of the 
Mexican school children, 262 items; joint exhibition of the Twenty 
Women Painters and the Landscape Club, of Washington, D. C; 74 
water colors by William Spencer Bagdatopoulos ; 85 paintiligs,' 20 
framed and 41 unframed water colors, 34 etchings, and 33 pieces of 
sculpture from the National Collection of Fine Arts; 3 portraits by 
Henrique Medina; and 260 naval historical prints from the Eber- 
stadt Collection. 

Freer Gallery of ^r^J.— Additions to the collections included Chinese 
bronze, gold, and jade objects; Arabic manuscripts; Chinese, Indian, 
and Persian paintings; Chinese porcelain; Persian pottery; and 
Egyptian stone sculpture. The year's curatorial work has been de- 
voted to the study of Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, Aramaic, 
and Armenian art objects and of associated texts, inscriptions, or 
seals. The results of these studies have been incorporated in 'the 
Gallery records. Many similar objects have been brought or sent to 
the Director by their owners for expert opinion on their identity, 
age, etc. Changes in exhibition in the Gallery have involved a total 
of 75 objects. The number of visitors for the year was 120,427. Two 
lectures on Musuhnan painting were given by Eustache de Lorey, of 
Pans; 9 groups were given instruction in the study rooms, and 10 
groups were given docent service in the exhibition galleries. 

Bureau of American Ethnology. ~Mx. Stirling, chief, besides his 
administrative duties, made a reconnaissance trip to Mexico, during 
which he selected a site in the Canton of Tuxtlas south of Veracruz 
for archeological excavation during the coming year. Dr. Swanton 
devoted most of the year to field work and investigations relating to 
his work as chairman of the United States De Soto Expedition Com- 
nussion. Dr. Michelson undertook field work among the Montag- 
nais-Naskapi Indians of the northern shore of \h^ St. Lawrence 
River and vicinity. Dr. Harrington completed a comparative study 
of the Tano-Kiowan family of languages. Dr. Roberts continued his 
archeological work at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado, 
where he unearthed a large collection of specimens relating to Folsom' 
man, so far as known the earliest of New World inhabitants. Dr. 
Steward completed his final report on the tribes of the Great Plains- 
Plateau area. In April 1938, he left for Ecuador to begin extensive 
ethnological studies in the western part of South America. The 
Bureau published an annual report and three bulletins. 

International Exchanges. ~Th& International Exchange Service 
under the Smithsonian Institution acts as the official agency of the 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5 

United States for the interchange with other countries of govern- 
mental and scientific documents. During the year the service handled 
719,121 packages of such matter, an increase of 61,775 over the 
previous year. The weight of these packages was 656,119 pounds. 
The Government franking privilege was extended to cover a number 
of South and Central American countries, and packages for those 
countries were therefore sent direct to their destinations by mail in- 
stead of through the respective exchange bureaus. Shipments of 
exchanges to Spain have been suspended since August 1936, and those 
to China since August 1937. At the close of the year, however, a large 
consignment Avas being prepared for shipment to the Chinese Bureau 
of International Exchanges, which had moved its office from Nanking 
to Chungking. 

National Zoological Park. — The outstanding feature of the year 
was the addition to the collection of the large number of animals, 
birds, and reptiles brought back by the National Geographic 
Society-Smithsonian Expedition to the East Indies. The actual num- 
ber of specimens was 879, consisting of 121 mammals of 46 species, 
649 birds of 93 species, and 109 reptiles of 30 species. The new large 
mammal house described in last year's report was stocked with ani- 
mals during August and September 1937, the difficult task of trans- 
ferring such large creatures as elephants, hippopotamuses, and 
rhinoceroses being accomplished without mishap. Visitors for the 
year again increased in number, the total reaching 3,127,650. This 
included 1,374 organizations, mainly schools, with a total of 70,371 
individuals. Among the additions to the animal collection may be 
mentioned 34 mammals born and 30 birds hatched in the Park. The 
total number of animals in the collection at the close of the year was 
2,754, an increase of 412 over last year. The most urgent need of 
the Park is a new building for the restaurant and concession stand. 

Astrophysical Ohservatory. — The main business of the year was the 
recomputation of all solar-constant values from 1923 to the present 
time. This immense task was nearly completed at the close of the 
year, and it is hoped that by January 1939 a homogeneous series of 
daily values will be available. A highly sensitive instrument to 
measure the distribution of energy in the spectra of some of the 
brighter stars was constructed by Dr. Abbot and Mr. Hoover, and in 
May 1938 Mr. Hoover took the apparatus to Mount Wilson, Calif., 
to make new measurements of the stellar spectrum energy and also 
to make studies of the growth of plants in monochromatic rays. By 
way of anticipating next year's report, it may be said that gratifying 
progress was made in both researches. At the request of the Weather 
Bureau, construction was begun of a duplicate of the atmospheric 
turbidity and moisture apparatus used by the Institution in testing 



6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

the desirability of mountain sites for solar observatories. Dr. Abbot 
made further progress in the development of devices for utilizing 
solar radiation. The solar-radiation station on Mount St. Katherine 
in Egypt was abandoned for several reasons in December 1937, and a 
new station was located on Burro Mountain near Tyrone, N. Mex. It 
is hoped to begin observations there by November 1938. Dr. Brian 
O'Brien, aided by Smithsonian grants, has made further progress in 
the development of methods and apparatus for measuring solar varia- 
tion in the ultraviolet from sounding balloons, and he hopes soon 
to be able to compare this method with the results of the Smithsonian 
solar-constant observations. 

Division of Radiation and Organis7ns.~Mm\j investigations relat- 
ing to plant growth and radiation have been fruitfully pursued dur- 
ing the year. An improved method has been developed for measur- 
ing plant growth substances concerned in the bending of plants 
toward the light. Several members of the staff have collaborated in 
preparing a new automatic apparatus for measuring and recording 
photosynthesis continuously, as well as an apparatus for the deter- 
mination of chlorophyll. Preparations are under wav for the investi- 
gation of photosynthesis in algae. Studies were continued of mixtures 
of artificial lights suitable to promote satisfactory plant growth under 
laboratory conditions. Dependence of the induction periods in the 
photosynthesis of wheat on the length of previous dark exposures was 
further investigated, and in addition important results were obtained 
on the chlorophyll-COa ratio during photosynthesis. Members of the 
staff published five papers on the results of these and other investiga- 
tions during the year. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846 according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of 
England, who m 1826 bequeathed his propertv to the United States 
of America "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men." In receiving the property and accepting the 
trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was without 
authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted 
an estabhsnment" whose statutory members are "the President, the 
Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive 
departments." 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

During the year the Board of Eegents lost three of its members 

1 J lo^t 'a^'T^ ^' ^'''^*^'" ^^'"P^ T- I^obinson, of Arkansas, on July 
14, 1937; Ambassador Kobert W. Bingham, of Kentucky, on December 



KEPOKT OF THE SECKETARY / 

18, 1937; and Mr. Augustus P. Loring, of Massachusetts, on March 
17,' 1938.' Senator Alben W. Barkley, of Kentucky, was appointed 
by the President of the Senate on November 15, 1937, to succeed 
Senator Robinson; by joint resolution of Congress approved June 
15, 1938, Dr. Harvey N. Davis, of New Jersey, was appointed to suc- 
ceed Ambassador Bingham; and by joint resolution approved June 
20, 1938, Dr. Arthur H. Compton, of Illinois, was appointed to suc- 
ceed Mr. Loring. Also by joint resolution approved June 20, 1938, 
Hon. R. Walton Moore, of Virginia, was reappointed to succeed 

himself. 

The roll of Regents at the close of the year was as follows : Charles 
Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor; John 
N. Garner^ Vice President of the United States; members from the 
Senate— M. M. Logan, Charles L. McNary, Alben W. Barkley; mem- 
bers from the House of Representatives— T. Alan Goldsborough, 
Charles L. Gifford, Clarence Cannon; citizen members— Frederic A. 
Delano, Washington, D. C; John C. Merriam, Washington, D. C; 
R. Walton Moore, Virginia; Roland S. Morris, Pennsylvania; Harvey 
N. Davis, New Jersey; Arthur H. Compton, Illinois. 

Proceedings.— The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was 
held on January 13, 1938. The Regents present were Chief Justice 
Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor; John N. Garner, Vice President 
of the United States; Senators M. M. Logan and Alben W. Barkley; 
Representatives T. Alan Goldsborough, Charles L. Gifford, and 
Clarence Cannon; citizen Regents Frederic A. Delano and John C. 
Merriam ; and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot. 

The Secretary presented his annual report, detailing the activities 
of the several Government branches and of the parent institution 
during the year, and Mr. Delano presented the report of the execu- 
tive committee, covering financial statistics of the Institution. The 
Secretary also presented the annual report of the National Gallery 
of Art Commission, the name of which was changed, by a resolution 
adopted by the Regents at this meeting, to the Smithsonian Art 
Commission. 

In his usual special report the Secretary presented to the Regents 
a brief review of important activities carried on by the Institution 
and members of the staff during the year. 

In addition to the annual meeting, there was a special meeting 
of the Board of Regents on May 11, 1938, at which the following 
Regents were present: Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, Chan- 
celfor; Representatives T. Alan Goldsborough, Charles L. Gifford, 
and Clarence Cannon; citizen Regents Frederic A. Delano, R. Walton 
Moore, and Roland S. Morris; and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G. 
Abbot. This meeting was called to consider several urgent matters 



8 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

that had arisen, including a pending joint resolution of Congress 
(which was afterward approved on May 17, 1938) setting apart public 
ground for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art, and establishing the 
Smithsonian Gallery of Art Commission, to make preliminary in- 
vestigations and to secure appropriate designs, by competition or 
otherwise, for a Smithsonian Gallery of Art. The joint resolution 
also authorized an appropriation of $40,000 for expenses of the Com- 
mission, which amount was included in the deficiency appropriation 
bill approved June 25, 1938. 

FINANCES 

A statement will be found in the report of the executive committee, 
page 121. 

MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST 
THE SMITHSONIAN GALLERY OF ART 

In my last report I spoke of a resolution introduced at the first 
session of the Seventy-fifth Congress to establish a Smithsonian Gal- 
lery of Art to house the national art collections. The resolution did 
not pass that session of Congi-ess, but it was introduced again at the 
third session, passed both houses of Congress, and was approved by 
the President on May 17, 1938. The resolution authorized the Presi- 
dent to set apart ground for such a gallery on the Mall between 
Fourth and Fourteenth Streets and Constitution and Independence 
Avenues. A commission was set up, to be called the Smithsonian 
Gallery of Art Commission, who were authorized to secure appropri- 
ate designs for a gallery building, and $40,000 was authorized to be 
appropriated for this purpose. The Eegents of the Institution were 
authorized to solicit and receive subscriptions of funds for the con- 
struction of a building. In addition to providing space for the 
present National Collection of Fine Arts, administered by the Insti- 
tution, and other art works belonging to the Government, the Smith- 
sonian Gallery of Art is authorized by the resolution to hold public 
exhibitions, to acquire and sell contemporary works of art, to employ 
artists and other personnel, and to award scholarships. 

The $40,000 authorized to be appropriated was actually provided 
in the Second Deficiency Act approved June 25, 1938. 

The Smithsonian Gallery of Art Commission as designated in the 
resolution held its first meeting on May 25, 1938, at the Smithsonian 
Institution. Five of the eight members constituting the Commis- 
sion were present, namely, Edward Bruce, Frederic A. Delano, Hon. 
Kent E. Keller, Charles L. Borie, Jr., and Dr. Charles G. Abbot. 
Two of the remaining members, Senators Alben W. Barkley and 
Gilmore D. Clarke, were unable to be present, and the eighth mem- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9 

ber, a representative of the Board of Kegents of the Institution, had 
not yet been designated. Mr. Delano was elected chairman of the 
Commission and Dr. Abbot secretary. A ways and means committee 
was appointed to consider the matter of soliciting fmids from pro- 
spective donors for the construction of the gallery building, and an 
outline of the characteristics of a desirable type of building was 
I)resented by the chairman. The meeting adjourned subject to call 
by the chairman. 

The Smithsonian Institution is indeed gratified that at last there 
is real promise of a suitable gallery building to house the valuable 
art collections in its custody formerly known as the National Gallery 
of Art and since 1937 as the National Collection of Fine Arts. Such 
a gallery, together with the National Gallery of Art now under 
construction and the Freer Gallery of Art, all associated with the 
Smithsonian Institution, will undoubtedly go far toward placing 
America among the forefront of nations in the field of art and will 
eventually make of the Nation's Capital an art center comparable 
with those of the Old World. 

SMITHSONIAN RADIO PROGRAM 

In June 1938 was completed the second full year of "The World 
is Yours," the weekly radio program put on the air by cooperation 
between the United States Ofiice of Education, the National Broad- 
casting Co., and the Smithsonian Institution, with the financial sup- 
port of the Works Progress Administration. The series was begun 
in June 1936 as an experiment in the field of educational radio. The 
Smithsonian editorial office worked out a widely diversified but 
carefully balanced series of subjects in the various fields of the 
Institution's activities — science, invention, history, and art — and these 
subjects were presented to listeners as half -hour dramatizations every 
Sunday over an NBC network. The number of stations carrying the 
programs was small at first, but increased gradually until in June 
1938 "The World is Yours" went on the air over 57 stations and 2 
short-wave stations. 

In my last report were listed the subjects covered in the first year's 
programs. From July 1, 1937, to June 30, 1938, the following 
subjects were presented: 



10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

1937 

Revolutionary Relics j^jy ^ 

Life ill the Sea j^ly -^-^ 

Pharmaceutical Products jijy 25 

Automobiles ^^„ j 

Men of Science ^^„ o 

Medals ""7_7_'_'_ Aug." 15 

Glass ^^jg 22 

Egyptian Antiquities ^^o-, ^ 

Rubber ^ _V__V_""~ Sep". 5 

Refrigeration Sevt 12 

Cutlery "__'___V~_"Z Sept 19 

Surgery gep^_ 26 

Tin Q^j 3 

Flying the Oceans Oct 10 

Lace ~~~~l~ Oct 17 



Radiation. 



Oct 24 



Famous Swords Oct 31 

Science Advance of the Year Nqy^ Y 

John Smith and the Virginia Indians Nov! 14 

Romance of Surveying i^^y^ 21 

Capturing Live Animals in Sumatra Nov. 28 

Diamond ""'"".' Dec' 5 

Aztec Civilization jjgp -^n 

Drugs and Medicines j)^^. jg 

Christmas in the Colonies jy^^ 2G 

19S8 
The True De Soto j^^^ g 

Masters Behind the Mellon Masterpieces jan. 9 

Land versus Weather j^^j^" ^g 

The Saga of the Sewing Machine ~~_~ Jan. 28 

Whales, Largest of Mammals jj^^ 30 

Four Principles of Mechanics ^eh 6 

Snakes, Big and Little ^^^ j3 

The Lincoln Legend -p^^' 20 

The Story of Electricity ^^^ 27 

Man Against Insects _~ j^^j,' q 

Conquest Underground ~ -^j^^j.' jg 

Rockets and Planets ] ^^^' go 

Saving the Forests '_ " ^^^j.' 27 

Birds of Prey _~ __ ^^p" 3 

Introducing the UuiA^erse 1 ^ ' ^q 

The Inca Empire of the Sun ~_~_" ^p^.' j^ 

Silver Through the Centuries ^pj.' 24 

Exploration for Science '____' ■^' ^ 

Primitive Music nr ' o 

May 8 

Air Mail ,, ^^ 

May 15 

American Food Plants ^j^ ^ 

Rare Metals ~~ at ^ 

_, May 29 

Twentieth Century Physics j^^^ 5 

Jacques Marquette on the Mississippi ""_' June 12 

Industrial Chemistry ' j^^^^ ^^ 

Life Under the Microscope j^jj^ 26 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY H 

Accordino- to the large amount of mail received at the Office of 
Education after each ^veek's program goes on the air the series has 
maintained a widespread popularity among listeners of all ages and 
occupations in the United States, Canada, and some foreign coun- 
tries During the two years "The World is Yours" has been on the 
air, close to a quarter of a million letters have been received only 
a very small fraction of 1 percent of which have contamed adverse 
criticism Many, on the other hand, have been enthusiastic m their 
praise of the efforts of the Smithsonian and the Office of Education 
to make available via radio the wealth of information m science, 
history, and art contained in the exhibits and laboratories of the 

Smithsonian Institution. ... -, ^ .t, n^.^ 

Again I wish to express the Institution's gi-atitude to the O&ce 
of Education, the National Broadcasting Company, and the W. i . A. 
for making this educational radio program possible. It supple- 
ments admirably the Institution's previous methods of accomplislnng 
one of its primary functions, the diffusion of knowledge. The hnan- 
cial support of the W. P. A. now seems assured for the continuation 
of the program during the coming fiscal year. 

WALTER RATHBONE BACON TRAVELING SCHOLARSHIP 

The Walter Kathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship of the Smith- 
sonian Institution was awarded for a third consecutive year com- 
mencing June 15. 1937, to Dr. Richard E. Blackwelder. 

At the beginning of the period Dr. Blackwelder spent about 6 
weeks in England where he studied the West Indian collections of 
Staphylinidae belonging to the British Museum and to Dr. Malcolm 
Cameron Upon his return to this country he prepared his final 
report which takes the form of a revision of the West Indian com- 
ponents of the beetle family Staphylinidae. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION EXHIBIT AT THE TARTS INTERNATIONAL 

EXPOSITION, 19 37 

In order to conform to the general theme of the Paris Internationai 
Exposition, that is, "Arts and Technique of Modern Life," the Smith- 
sonian Institution selected as its contribution a small exhibit which 
aimed to show the technique and variety of media originally used by 
the North American Indian for his artistic expressions. It was entitled 
"Arts and Crafts of the North American Indian." The exhibit 
formed one of a series of Federal exhibits occupying a portion of the 
United States Building in the Exposition grounds. 

The exhibit consisted of 41 carefully selected specimens from the 
vast ethnological collections of the United States National Museum. 
They included examples indicative of the Indians' skill m wood and 



1938 



12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

stone carving; skin dressing; application of vegetable dyes; basket 
weaving; embroidery work with split and died porcupine quills and 
with glass beads; sewed feather designs; and free-hand painting of 
decorative and symbolic designs. The craftsmanship of some 15 
American Indian tribes was represented in the exhibit including the 
Comanche, Sioux, Cheyenne, Shoshone, Poma, Apache, Chippewa, 
and Kiowa. 

The exhibit was arranged in two exhibition cases especially designed 
for the purpose, and with each object there were placed brief descrip- 
tive labels in both English and French. 

SEVENTH ARTHUR LECTURE 

The seventh Arthur lecture. The Sun and the Atmosphere, was 
given by Dr. Harlan True Stetson, of the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, in the auditorium of the National Museum on the evening 
of February 24, 1938. Dr. Stetson, one of the world's leading authori- 
ties on the solar-terrestrial relationship, discussed particularly the sun- 
spots and their effect upon various terrestrial matters. The lecture 
is published in the General Appendix to the present report (p. 149). 

The Arthur lecture was provided for in the will of the late James 
Arthur, of New York City, who left to the Institution in 1931 a smn 
of money, part of the income from which should be used for an 
annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun. 

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK 

Twenty-four expeditions during the last calendar year took Smith- 
sonian representatives to 13 States in the United States and many 
foreign countries to collect specimens and data needed in the scientific 
researches of the Institution. 

Dr. Charles W. Gilmore directed exploration for dinosaur and mam- 
malian fossils in Utah and Arizona. Dr. Charles E. Eesser studied 
the Cambrian rocks of New York, Vermont, and Quebec. Dr. G. 
Arthur Cooper collected fossils needed in current investigations in 
Michigan, Pennsylvania, New York, and Canada. E. P. Henderson, 
representing the Smithsonian at the International Geological Con- 
gress in Moscow, had an opportunity to study the minerals of Russia. 

Dr. Alexander Wetmore visited Venezuela to observe the bird life 
of that part of South America. A collection of birds, including the 
very rare Asiatic fin foot and the Malayan ring plover, was made by 
H. G. Deignan in Siam. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., spent 3 months in 
Panama collecting animals and plants. Watson M. Perrygo, con- 
tinuing the work begun last year, went to Tennessee to obtain bird 
and mammal specimens needed for the Museum collections. Dr. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13 

William M. Mann directed the National Geographic Society- Smith- 
sonian Expedition to the East Indies to collect living animals, birds, 
and reptiles for the National Zoological Park. William N. Beach 
obtained in Alaska some fine specimens of moose and caribou for 
the National Museum's exhibition series. Capt. Kobert A. Bartlett, 
who for several years has been carrying on investigations in the 
Arctic region, visited the west coast of Greenland, sending back to 
the Smithsonian many specimens of marine life as well as speci- 
mens of birds and plants. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt participated 
in an expedition to the West Indies and obtained, in addition to many 
new marine forms, two porpoises, which are among the rarest things 
in museums. Dr. Paul Bartsch took part in an expedition for the 
collection of marine organisms in West Indian waters. Dr. Bartsch 
also continued his heredity experiments, begun in 1912, using young 
specimens of a species of fresh-water moUusk as his subjects and 
various rivers and creeks in Virginia and West Virginia as breeding 
grounds. Dr. Edward A. Chapin collected some 50,000 specimens of 
insects on the Island of Jamaica, among them three species of scarabs 
new to science. Austin H. Clark hunted the "invisible butterfly," the 
Brazilian skipper, in Virginia, and although he was unable to find 
one of these butterflies, he obtained specimens of other rare species. 
Paul S. Conger explored the lakes of northern Wisconsin for diatoms. 
Dr. Ales Hrdlicka went again to Alaska to further his study of the 
earliest occupation of that region, and spent 3 months on a series of 
the Aleutian Islands and on the Commander Islands, collecting 51 
boxes and barrels of important anthropological material. Dr. Her- 
bert W. Krieger conducted an archeological expedition to explore a 
large shell mound on the Island of Anegada, the most northerly of the 
British Virgin Islands, the objective being a comparison of the Indian 
relics recovered there with the large collection obtained by previous 
Smithsonian expeditions to the West Indies. Waldo R. Wedel in- 
augurated an archeological survey of Kansas, spending 31/2 months 
in reconnaissance excavations in the northeastern part of the State 
and unearthing a wealth of important and varied archeological 
remains. David I. Buslinell, Jr., visited ancient Indian sites on the 
banks of the Rappahannock in Virginia and recovered many cul- 
tural objects shedding light on the manners and ways of life of the» 
early inhabitants of the valley. Dr. Jolin R. Swanton engaged in two 
field trips for the purpose of tracing De Soto's trail across America 
to the Mississippi. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., obtained addi- 
tional evidence at the Lindenmeier site in Colorado of the existence 
of Folsom man, one of the earliest known inhabitants of the New 
World. Dr. Truman Michelson spent the summer of 1937 among the 
Montagnais-Naskapi Indians in Canada for the purpose of complet- 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

ing a linguistic map showing the distribution and interrelations of 
the Cree and the Montagnais-Naskapi dialects. 



PUBLICATIONS 



The Institution and its branches issued during the year a total of 
68 publications. Of this number, 38 were issued by the Smithsonian 
proper, 26 by the National Museimi, and 4 by the Bureau of American 
Ethnology. The titles, authors, and other information regarding all 
these publications will be found in the report of the editor, appendix 
11. The total number of copies of publications distributed was 129,478. 
The Institution depends in large part upon its series of publications 
to carry out one of its primary functions— the diffusion of knowl- 
edge. Its otlier means— its museum and art gallery exhibits, its ex- 
tensive correspondence, its science news releases, and educational radio 
programs— are also important, but in its publications are presented in 
permanent form the results of researches by the scientific staffs of the 
Institution, the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
and other branches. These publications are regularly distributed f?ee 
to a large list of libraries and educational institutions, where they are 
readily available to students and to otlier scientific workers. 

Among the larger publications of the year there may be mentioned 
as particularly outstanding a work by Henry B. Collins, Jr., entitled 
"Archeology of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska," in which he summarizes 
the results of several years' work in the far north on the prehistory 
of the Eskimo; "Preliminary Keport on the Smithsonian Institution- 
Harvard University Archeological Expedition to Northwestern Hon- 
duras, 1936," by William Duncan Strong, Alfred Kidder II, and A. J 
Drexel Paul, Jr.; "The Oxystomatous and Allied Crabs of America," 
by Mary J. Rathbun, another in her series of monographs on Ameri- 
can crabs; and "Historical and Ethnograpliical Material on the Jivaro 
Indians," by M. W. Stirling, an account of the Jivaro head-hunters of 
Ecuador based on first-hand information obtained by Mr. Stirling on 
a recent expedition to the region occupied by these Indians. 



LIBRARY 



Accessions to the Smithsonian library for the year numbered 10,892 
items, received mostly through exchange and gift. These bring 'the 
total number of items in the library to 887,414, exclusive of thousands 
of volumes incomplete or unbound. The outstanding gift of the year 
was a collection of 1,186 volumes and pamphlets on the history and 
culture of China, presented by Mrs. William Woodville Rockhill. The 
Geophysical Laboratory presented 3,312 miscellaneous publications, 
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 653; and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15 

the American Association of IMusenms, 209. Besides the extensive 
exchange work, which involved 25,264 packages of publications, the 
staff of^'the library recorded 23,992 periodicals, cataloged 6,449 publi- 
cations, prepared and filed 42,568 catalog and shelf list cards, made 
11.380 loans, and did a considerable amount of work on the union 
catalog. The chief need of the library is more funds for binding. 

KespectfuUy submitted. 

C. G. Abbot, Secretary, 



APPENDIX 1 
EEPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi- 
tion and operation of the United States National Museum for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1938 : 

Funds provided for the maintenance of the National Museum for 
the year totaled $775,720, representing an increase of $20,250 over 
the previous year. Owing to a compulsory administrative deduc- 
tion of $8,500, however, this increase actually amounted only to 
$11,750. 

COLLECTIONS 

Material added to the Museum collections during the year came 
in 1,713 separate accessions totaling 312,729 specimens. These addi- 
tions were mostly gifts from individuals or represented expeditions 
sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution. The specimens were dis- 
tributed among the five departments as follows : Anthropology, 2,162 ; 
biology, 244,761 ; geology, 60,927 ; arts and industries, 2,297 ; and his- 
tory, 2,582. All the accessions are listed in detail in the full report 
on the Museum, printed as a separate document, but the more 
important are summarized as follows: 

Anthropology. — Archeological accessions of importance included 
nearly one hundred vessels and fragments from Honduras, obtained 
by the 1936 joint expedition with the Peabody Museum of Harvard 
University; a lot of Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age objects 
from Denmark ; Neolithic stone implements from South Africa ; and 
a collection of artifacts from the Temple Mound in Le Flore County, 
Okla. 

As in previous years, C. C. Roberts donated many articles of eth- 
nological interest from West Africa. Various objects came from the 
Eskimo in Alaska and the Hudson Bay region, Navaho, Pueblo, 
and Ojibwa blankets, beadwork, pottery, and baskets came from sev- 
eral donors. Seventy-eight ceramic specimens were received, 10 musi- 
cal instruments, and 57 objects representing period art and textiles. 

In the division of physical anthropology 555 specimens, including 
much skeletal material, were received. Of these, 291 were obtained 
by Dr. Ales Hrdlicka in Alaska during his field explorations; 144 
from an Indian site in Stafford County, Va., were donated by the 

17 



18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

late Judge W. J. Graham; and 67 from another important Indian 
site at Accokeek, Md., were presented by Mrs. A. L. L. Ferguson. 
Biology. — Biological specimens added during the year numbered 
over 240,000, and the total in this department now exceeds 12,500,000. 
Of the mammals received, more than 1,200 were transferred from the 
United States Biological Survey. A particularly welcome gift was 
that of a mounted specimen of a Montana grizzly bear of a form now 
extinct (true Ursus horrihilis) from Dr. C. Hart Merriam. A fine lot 
of cetacean material also was received. Important avian accessions 
included birds collected in Venezuela by Dr. Alexander Wetmore, 
in Siam by H. G. Deignan, in Tennessee by W. M. Perrygo, and in 
China by Dr. D. C. Graham. New reptile and amphibian material 
came from many places, notably reptiles from the Lesser Antilles, 
Siam, Ceram, and Sumatra, Tennessee, Florida, Texas, Maine, and 
Vermont ; frogs and toads from Brazil ; and salamanders from Central 
America. About 5,100 fishes were transferred to the Museum collec- 
tion from the United States Bureau of Fisheries; 12,780 specimens 
from the middle Atlantic coast were presented by the Bingham 
Oceanographic Foundation of Yale University and the United 
States Bureau of Fisheries; the Carnegie Institution of Washington 
gave 6,200 fishes collected by the late Dr. W. H. Longley from the 
Tortugas and the Dutch West Indies; and many hundreds of others 
came from the National Geographic-Smithsonian Expedition in 
Sumatra, the Smithsonian-Hartford Expedition of 1937, the Tennes- 
see Valley Authority, the United States Biological Survey, the Bass 
Biological Laboratory, and H. G. Deignan, to name but a few of the 
many donors. The more important accessions of insects include the 
following: The Blackmore collection of Lepidoptera (2,111 speci- 
mens), the Quirsfeld collection of weevils (1,157 specimens), 15,000 
ants donated by Dr. M. R. Smith, 10,000 Chinese insects collected by 
Dr. D. C. Graham, and 54,000 insects transferred from the United 
States Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine. The 15,300 
marine invertebrates added consisted mostly of specimens new to the 
collections or type material. Over 1,000 specimens of marine in- 
vertebrates were added through the explorations of Capt. Robert A. 
Bartlett in West Greenland in 1937, and another large group from 
the West Indies resulted from the Smithsonian-Hartford Expedition. 
The outstanding accession of mollusks was the Bohumil Shimek col- 
lection of loess shells, obtained through the Frances Lea Chamberlain 
Fund. This collection, of both recent and fossil species, consisted of 
nearly 25,000 lots and aggregated more than a million individual 
specimens. About 36,500 plants vrere added to the herbarium collec- 
tions, from many points of North, South, and Central America. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19 

Geology • — Important accessions in mineralogy were made possible 
by several Smithsonian fmids. Through the Canfield fund were pur- 
chased minerals from Japan, Sardinia, Rumania, Greece, Austria, 
California, Arkansas, Arizona, and Montana; through the Roebling 
fund, seven American diamonds; and through the Chamberlain 
fund, four cut gem stones. In all, 790 specimens pertaining to min- 
eralogy and petrology were received. Seventy meteorite specimens, 
many purchased by the Roebling Fund, representing 62 falls new 
to the collection, were added during the year, the largest number since 
the acquisition of the Shepard collection in 1915. 

In the field of vertebrate paleontology, the collections benefited es- 
pecially by the field expedition of C. W. Gilmore, and by material 
presented by the United States Texas Centennial Commission. In all, 
69 fossil vertebrates were added, including the partial skeleton of a 
very large sauropod dinosaur of the family Titanosauridae, the first 
to be found in North America. 

Chiefly through the efforts of members of the staff, about 60,000 
specimens were added to the collections in stratigraphic paleontology, 
the most extensive and valuable accession of the year in this field 
being an unparalleled collection of Devonian invertebrates made by 
Dr. G. Arthur Cooper and Preston Cloud in the Lower Peninsula of 
Michigan. Others came from the Chazyan rocks of northeastern New 
York and Quebec. Rare brachiopods were obtained from Canada and 
Nevada, and Devonian corals and crinoids from Michigan. Transfers 
from the United States Geological Survey included collections in 
Ozarkian, Canadian, and Chazyan brachiopods, numbering more 
than 22,000 specimens. 

Arts a/nd industries. — Models of the following airplanes were 
added to the aeronautical collections : The Vickers Vimy plane that 
made the first nonstop trans- Atlantic flight in 1919; the Sikorsky 
S-40, the first of the clipper planes on airways over Florida, the Wesi 
Indies, and South America ; the Wilf ord gyro ; the low-wing tractor 
monoplane Mohaioh made for Col. Charles A. Lindbergh; and sev- 
eral historic airmail planes, including the Queen Bleriot (1911), the 
Curtiss modified "R" (1916), and the Northrop airplane that held 
the 1934 record for transcontinental mail transport. The first cable 
car to operate in Seattle, Wash. (1889), was presented to the Museum 
by the City of Seattle. Several interesting original builders' models 
of watercraft also were received. Many miscellaneous objects per- 
taining to communication, metrology, refrigeration, photography, 
and tools and crafts continued to come in as gifts and loans, wel- 
come additions to these sections, and nearly 1,500 specimens pertain- 
ing to textiles, organic chemistry, wood technology, and medicine 
were received during the year. To the graphic arts display were 

11472S— 39— - — 3 



20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

added 321 specimens showing printing processes (in 8 exhibition 
cases) received from the United States Government Printing Office. 
History. — ^More than 2,500 objects of historic and antiquarian value 
were received, chiefly portraits, costumes, medals, mementos, and fur- 
niture of historic characters. The series of awards and personal 
mementos was enriched by a number of objects relating to the scien- 
tific career of Dr. Charles D. Walcott, fourth Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, a gift of Mrs. Walcott. Several pieces of parlor 
furniture made in Paris for President James Monroe in 1817 and 
used in the White House from then until 1937 were lent to the Mu- 
seum by the White House for an indefinite period. The numismatic 
collection was increased by 366 coins and medals, including a bronze 
medal commemorating the invention of the bifocal lens by Benjamin 
Franklin in 1784. The philatelic collection was increased by the 
transfer from the Post Office Department of 2,088 specimens of 
foreign postage stamps, cards, and envelopes. 

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD AVORK 

The scientific explorations of the year by members of the Museum 
staff were financed principally by grants from the private funds of 
the Smithsonian Institution or by contributions from friends of the 
Institution. The investigations were varied in nature and brought 
highly important results in additions to scientific knowledge and in 
contributions of specimens to the national collections. 

In May, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Assistant Secretary, as repre- 
sentative of the Smithsonian Institution, and chairman of the official 
delegation of the United States, was in attendance at the Ninth In- 
ternational Ornithological Congress, held in Bouen, France. At the 
close of the meetings it was voted to hold the next Congress, which 
will come in 1942, in the United States. Dr. Wetmore was then 
elected President. Following the meetings he visited museums and 
laboratories in Switzerland, particularly in Bern and Basel, and later 
worked at the British Museum (Natural History) in London. 

Anthropology. — ^During April and May 1938 Frank M. Setzler, 
head curator of the department of anthropology, continued an arche- 
ological program in the trans-Pecos area of southwestern Texas. 
Since 1931 Mr. Setzler has been attempting, as opportunity per- 
mitted, to outline the aboriginal culture status of the cave dwellers 
in the Big Bend region of Texas. His previous excavations at the 
mouth of the Pecos contributed largely to knowledge of the unusual 
physical types of this simple nonpottery-making horizon. This year, 
through the L. L. Wilson fund, he was enabled to excavate a large 
cave in the northeast corner of Terrell County. Though this pro- 
duced no skeletal material, the 9-foot deposits of burnt rocks and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21 

ashes contained sufficient aboriginal artifacts to show a direct cul- 
tural relationship with regions to the south and west in the Chisos 
Mountains and near Alpine. After examining additional material 
from the Guadelupe Mountains, in the Carlsbad Archeological and 
Historical Society Museum, and a small collection from caves around 
Albuquerque, N. Mex., Mr. Setzler concludes that this prehistoric 
phase has a much wider distribution than heretofore recognized, espe- 
cially in the eastern part of New Mexico. The exact period of occu- 
pation of these caves can only be surmised ; but since no evidence of 
European materials has been reported in association with the san- 
dals, baskets, and other artifacts, he concludes that the caves were 
abandoned before any of the early Spanish explorers visited the area. 
Since most of their material culture comprises baskets instead of 
earthenware vessels, they may have become isolated before the manu- 
facture of aboriginal pottery became so widespread and indispensa- 
ble among the prehistoric inhabitants in either the Southwest or the 
Mississippi Valley. The chronological relationship, if any exists, 
between the Big Bend Cave Dwellers and the Basketmaker phase in 
northern New Mexico and Arizona as yet remains unsolved. 

On October 14, Herbert W. Krieger, curator of etlinology, sailed 
from New York for Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, to conduct arche- 
ological investigations in the Virgin Islands under a grant from the 
Smithsonian Institution. The expedition was undertaken as a result 
of information conveyed by Robert Nichols, superintendent of agri- 
culture of St. Thomas, to the effect that a large shell mound existed 
on the Island of Anegada, the northernmost of the British Virgin 
Islands. The immediate objective was an exploration of the Anegada 
mound, which required the cooperation of the United States Coast 
Guard Service. A survey of the shell mound led to the conclusion 
that the culture represented was similar to that of other nonpottery- 
producing cultures discovered on previous Smithsonian expeditions to 
the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Cuba. At the conclusion of the 
Anegada survey a trial excavation was made of the Indian midden 
east of Road Town on the Island of Tortola. Later, excavations 
were carried out in considerable detail on the A. S. Fairchild prop- 
erty at Magens Bay on the Island of St. Thomas, and later at Ackles 
on United States Government property on the Island of St. Croix. 

These investigations led to the discovery of three distinct cultures, 
all of which may be of Arawak origin — the shell culture on the Ane- 
gada site, the early Arawak culture type of the Road Town site and 
to a certain extent of the Magens Bay area, and the late Arawak cul- 
ture of the Ackles site. An overlapping of the Arawak I and Ara- 
wak II phases was strikingly illustrated in the excavations at Magens 
Bay. A chronology of West Indian aboriginal cultures has conse- 
quently assumed form. The sequence of the three main culture types 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

just indicated permits of the dovetailing as subcultures for Arawak I 
(early Arawak) and for Arawak II (late Arawak) of the material 
from certain sites in the Dominican Republic and Haiti excavated by 
former Smithsonian expeditions from 1928 to 1931. It is quite clear 
that the shell middens of the caves of the south shore of Samana Bay 
(Smithsonian expedition, 1928) and of the lie a Vache shell midden 
(Smithsonian expedition, 1931) are culturally related to the Anegada 
shell midden. The expedition to the Virgin Islands thus has crystal- 
lized tentative conclusions with regard to the classification of West 
Indian culture sequences based on numerous investigated sites. 

Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, curator of physical anthropology, assisted by 
six students, sj^ent the greater part of June, July, and August, 
1937, in archeological investigations on the Aleutian Islands. After 
reaching the Aleutian Islands the party received permission to work 
in the Commander Islands in Soviet territory, but because of un- 
foreseen circumstances the visit had to be very short. Although 
there was little time for scientific work, enough information was 
gained to encourage the arrangement for another visit. The Insti- 
tution in its northern work is once more deeply indebted to the 
United States Coast Guard for its excellent cooperation, which made 
possible the work not only in the Aleutian Islands but in the Com- 
mander group. In 1938, again through the cooperation of the United 
States Coast Guard, archeological work was continued in the 
Aleutian Chain and was well under way at the close of the fiscal 
year. 

From the beginning of the fiscal year until September 13, 1937, 
Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, assistant curator of archeology, was occupied 
in an archeological survey in Kansas, beginning a long-term program 
that is planned to cover a complete survey of the entire State in 
an attempt to establish the outlines of the aboriginal Indian cultures 
throughout that region. It should also reveal answers to some of 
the puzzling problems relating to prehistoric cultures in the Missis- 
sippi Valley and in the Western Plains. By using early documentary 
accounts some of the historic Indian sites can be definitely identified, 
and thereby they may reveal a complex of material culture traits that 
can be identified with their prehistoric antecedents. Dr. Wedel's 
investigations of 1937 included excavations at three village sites 
along the bluffs of the Missouri River and above Kansas City, and 
two in the Kansas River Valley near Manhattan. In the prolific site 
on Line Creek, northwest of Kansas City, evidences were found of 
an extended occupation of prehistoric origin containing two di- 
agnostic t^qies of earthenware vessels. One type has a general cord- 
roughened decoration, while directly associated with it was a superior 
ware bearing decorations closely comparable to the Hopewellian type 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY 23 

of the Mississippi Valley and never before reported as far west as 
Kansas City. An early Kansa Indian Village was also investigated 
near the old river town of Doniphan, Kans. This village was visited 
by early explorers in 1724 and again by Lewis and Clark in 1804. A 
few miles below the mouth of the Blue River a circular house site 
was excavated in an old Kansa village visited and described by 
Major Long's expedition in 1819. Dr. Wedel again resumed his 
explorations in Kansas on May 11, 1938, and was in the field at the 
close of the fiscal year. 

Since Judge W. J. Graham's death on November 10, 1937, ar- 
rangements have been made for Dr. T. Dale Stewart, assistant cura- 
tor of physical anthropology, to take over the excavations on an 
Indian site at Potomac Creek, Va., and to advance the work from 
the point reached by Judge Graham. During the latter part of the 
fiscal year Dr. Stewart made several visits to the site for preliminary 
surveys. 

Biology. — Through the friendly cooperation of William N. Beach 
and J. Watson Webb, the National Museum has secured a valuable 
collection of large mammals from the Rainy Pass region beyond 
Mount McKinley in Alaska. In preparation for this work pack 
horses under charge of Harry Boyden were sent to Alaska in June. 
Mr. Beach and Mr. Webb, accompanied by W. L. Brown, chief 
taxidermist of the National Museum, arrived at McKinley Park 
Station on the Alaska Railroad on the evening of August 13 and 
continued through the park to join the pack outfit on the McKinley 
River. Work in this field continued until the middle of September 
and resulted in obtaining fine material for a habitat group of moose, 
which will be mounted for exhibition. The largest bull moose se- 
cured has a fine heavy set of horns with a spread of 65 inches. In 
addition, the party obtained caribou and other mammals much needed 
for the National Museum. 

In continuation of work begun last year in West Virginia, Watson 
M. Perrygo, scientific aid, made collections of birds and mammals 
in Tennessee to obtain needed material for the National Museum. 
Mr. Perrygo left for the field early in April, accompanied by Carle- 
ton Lingebach as assistant, and began work in the Mississippi bot- 
toms near Memphis. Work continued around Reelfoot Lake, on 
the Cumberland Plateau, and in the high mountains along the 
western border of the State, terminating on July 15 for the summer. 
In mid-September the party left for the field again, Mr. Lingebach 
being replaced by Henry R. Schaefer. The first collections were 
made on Roan Mountain, one of the highest mountains in the East- 
ern United States, with a summer temperature reputed to be the 
coldest for the entire Southeast in the summer season. Following 



24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

this, collections were made in the Clinch Mountains, and then the 
party again visited the area about Reelfoot Lake to follow the fall 
migration in that region. After further investigations in the cen- 
tral and southern part of the State, they returned to Washington 
the middle of November. The excellent collections of birds and 
mammals secured will form the basis of reports similar to those pre- 
pared for the work in West Virginia of last year. The work was 
carried on under the W. L. Abbott fund. 

During October and November Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Assistant 
Secretary, traveled in northwestern Venezuela to make studies of the 
birds through arrangements perfected under the friendly cooperation 
of the American Minister, the Hon. Meredith Nicholson, and the 
gracious assistance of Dr. E. Gil Borges, Ministro cle Kelaciones 
Exteriores of Venezuela. In this work a survey was made of the 
bird life along a line extending from Ocumare de la Costa on the sea 
coast through the mountain range of the Cordillera de la Costa to 
Maracay and from there to the northern Llanos, in the vicinity of 
El Sombrero. In addition to securing an important collection of 
specimens, Dr. Wetmore made many observations on birds in life. 

Capt. Robert A. Bartlett again visited the western coast of Green- 
land during the summer of 1937 on his schooner Morrissey and se- 
cured important gatherings of marine animals that were presented 
to the National Museum. Collections were made from Cape York 
north by way of Northumberland and Hakluyt Island, to Smith 
Sound. 

Dr. D. C. Graham continued his collecting work in western China, 
forwarding many specimens of insects and of birds and other verte- 
brates. 

Geology. — Dr. Charles E. Resser, curator of stratigraphic paleon- 
tology, studied Cambrian rocks on the flanks of the Adirondack 
Mountains in New York and Vermont and along the St. Lawrence 
River in Quebec, making investigations in Pennsylvania en route. In 
addition to collecting invertebrate fossils he was occupied in check- 
ing the relations of the various strata examined in connection with 
his work in the laboratory. 

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleon- 
tology, accompanied by P. E. Cloud, returned early in the year from 
a month's investigations of the Devonian of Michigan. In the latter 
half of September Dr. Cooper and Dr. Josiah Bridge visited the 
Champlain Valley to study the Chazyan rocks, both trips yielding 
excellent fossils. Dr. Cooper made a third trip in August, in company 
with Dr. Bradford Willard, of the Pennsylvania Topographic and 
Geologic Survey, to study the TuUy formation along the Allegheny 
Front and from Lock Haven to the Schuylkill Valley. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25 

E. P. Henderson was abroad from early in May until October 
1937. Two months were occupied in attendance at the Seventeenth 
International Geological Congress at Moscow, in visiting important 
museums, and in collecting minerals in the Kola Peninsula and the 
Ural Mountains. The remaining time was occupied in Ceylon study- 
ing the gem deposits of that island, and in Japan in visiting minera- 
logical institutions and dealers from whom interesting specimens 
were obtained. Important mineralogical and geological collections 
were made, but the more important resvilts are the contacts and ex- 
changes, either made or initiated, by which a large quantity of 
Russian, Norwegian, Swedish, Scottish, and Japanese material will 
be received. 

As the field expedition of 1937 under C, W. Gilmore, curator of 
vertebrate paleontology, extended well into the present fiscal year, 
but brief mention was made of it in last year's report. This expe- 
dition in the Upper Cretaceous of the North Horn area in central 
Utah, and in the Triassic of the Petrified Forest region of Arizona, 
met with most gratifying results. The Utah area was a virgin field 
so far as professional collecting was concerned, and the results ob- 
tained fully justified the venture. A good beginning was made in 
the development of a fauna for the North Horn formation of the 
Upper Cretaceous, and a small collection of mammalian remains 
indicated for the first time the presence of Paleocene strata in this 
geologic section. The finding of a large sauropod dinosaur skeleton 
in association with Upper Cretaceous dinosaur remains is a discov- 
ery of much interest and fully establishes the fact that this group 
of reptiles in North America lived into the Upper Cretaceous. Most 
of the specimens obtained are new to science. From the Triassic of 
Arizona important phytosaurian and amphibian remains were col- 
lected that go far in filling gaps in our permanent collections. The 
collections obtained filled 13 large cases having a combined weight 
of nearly 3 tons. George F. Sternberg, as in previous seasons, ren- 
dered efficient assistance, and George B. Pearce ably assisted as 
field assistant. 

In May, Dr. C. L. Gazin, assistant curator of vertebrate paleon- 
tology, left Washington to head an expedition that will continue the 
explorations in central Utah so auspiciously begun last season. This 
will be followed by work in the Upper Eocene deposits of the Uinta 
Basin. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Visitors. — Since the year 1932-33, when a low point was reached 
presumably as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, the num- 
ber of visitors to the various Museum buildings has steadilv mounted. 



26 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

This year there were 119,638 more visitors than last, bringing the 
total up to 2,408,170, which is our greatest annual attendance to date. 
The attendance in the four Museum buildings was recorded as fol- 
lows: Smithsonian Building, 371,Y70; Arts and Industries Building, 
1,094,254; Natural History Building, 750,307; Aircraft Building, 
191,839. 

Publications and printing. — The sum of $21,000 was available dur- 
ing the year for the publication of the Museum annual report, bul- 
letins, and Proceedings. Twenty-six publications were issued — the 
annual report, 1 volume of Proceedings completed, 5 bulletins, and 
19 separate Proceedings papers. These aggregated 1,640 octavo pages 
and 242 plates, an increase of 36 pages and 107 plates over last year. 
The five bulletins issued were as follows: No. 100, volume 6, part 9, 
The Tree Snails of the Genus Cochlostyla of MinCoro Province, 
Philippine Islands, by Dr. Paul Bartsch ; No. 166, The Oxystomatous 
and Allied Crabs of America, by Dr. Mary J. Eathbun; No. 168, 
Nearctic Collembola, or Springtails, of the Family Isotomidae, by 
the late Dr. Justus W. Folsom ; No. 169, The Fort Union of the Crazy 
Mountain Field, Montana, and Its Mam-malian Fauna, by Dr. George 
Gaylord Simpson; and No. 171, The Pleistocene Vertebrate Fauna 
from Cumberland Cave, Maryland, by the late Dr. James W. Gidley 
and Dr. C. Lewis Gazin. 

Volumes and separates distributed during the year to libraries and 
individuals throughout the world aggregated 57,761. 

Assistance from luorh relief agencies. — The "Works Progress Ad- 
ministration of the District of Columbia continued the assignment of 
relief workers to Museum offices, and during the course of the year 
the number of such workers increased from 88 to 167. The work 
performed totaled 130,205 man-hours, and embraced such tasks as 
checking, labeling, and repairing library material; preparing draw- 
ings and photographs; typing notes and records; model making and 
repair; preparing, mounting, cataloging, numbering, and checking 
specimens; labeling and drafting; translating; and assisting with 
plaster casts. 

Special exhihitions. — Seventeen special exhibitions were held dur- 
ing the year under the auspices of various educational, scientific, and 
governmental agencies. The division of graphic arts featured 17 
special exhibits — 8 in graphic arts and 9 in photography. 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 

During the year there were few changes in the scientific staff. In 
the Department of Anthropology, Frank M. Setzler was appointed 
head curator on July 1, 1937, and Harry B. Collins, Jr., was advanced 
to associate curator, Division of Ethnology, on February 17, 1938. In 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27 

the Dei^artment of Biology, Dr. Leonard P. Schiiltz was made curator 
of the Division of Fishes on January 16, 1938, and H. Harold Shamel 
was advanced to senior scientific aid in the Division of Mammals on 
September 3, 1937. In the Department of Geology, Bertel O. Reber- 
holt, by reallocation was advanced to senior scientific aid in the Di- 
vision of Physical and Chemical Geology, November 1, 1937. Wil- 
liam E. Moran was appointed junior scientific aid in the Division of 
Vertebrate Paleontology on June 16, 1938. In the Department of 
Arts and Industries, Kenneth M. Perry was appointed assistant ex- 
hibits worker in the Division of Mechanical Technology, on October 
16, 1937. 

On January 1, 1938, Norman H. Boss, chief preparator, Division 
of Invertebrate Paleontology, returned to duty from detail to the 
Greater Texas and Pan American Exposition at Dallas, where he was 
assigned as exhibit supervisor for the Smithsonian Institution. 

The Museum lost through death during the year four employees : 
Arthur J. Poole, scientific aid in the Division of Mammals, on July 
3, 1937, after 22 years 7 months of service; Daniel Clark, skilled 
laborer, on August 23, 1937, after 28 years of service; Jacob Willy, 
lieutenant of guard, on January 25, 1938, with 16 years of service; 
and William Robinson, laborer, on May 14, 1938, with 20 years of 
service. From the honorary staff the Museum lost through death 
Dr. Maurice C. Hall, honorary custodian of helminthological col- 
lections, on May 2, 1938. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Alexander Wetmore, Assistant Secretary. 
Dr. Charles G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 2 
KEPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Sir: Pursuant to the provisions of section 5 (b) of Public Resolu- 
tion No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, approved March 24, 1937, I 
have the honor, on behalf of the trustees of the National Gallery 
of Art, to submit the first annual report of the Board, covering the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1938, on its operations under the afore- 
mentioned joint resolution. 

Under the joint resolution of Congress it appropriated to the 
Smithsonian Institution the area bounded by Seventh Street, Con- 
stitution Avenue, Fourth Street and North Mall Drive (now Madison 
Drive) Northwest, in the District of Columbia, as a site for a 
National Gallery of Art; authorized the Smithsonian Institution to 
permit The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, a pub- 
lic, religious, educational, and charitable trust, established by the late 
Hon. Andrew W. Mellon, of Pittsburgh, Pa., to construct thereon a 
building to be designated the "National Gallery of Art" ; and created, 
in the Smithsonian Institution, a bureau to be directed by a board 
to be known as the "Trustees of the National Gallery of Art," 
charged with the maintenance and administration of the National 
Gallery of Art. This act provides that the board be comprised of 
the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the 
Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, ex-officio, and five general trustees. The general trustees 
first taking office were to be chosen by the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution; and their successors are to be chosen by 
the majority vote of the general trustees. 

On June 24, 1937, the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution appointed the following as general trustees of the National 
Gallery of Art : 

Donald D. Shepard, for the term expiring July 1, 1939; 
S. Parker Gilbert, for the term expiring July 1, 1941 ; 
Duncan Phillips, for the term expiring July 1, 1943 ; 
David K. E. Bruce, for the term expiring July 1, 1945 ; 
Andrew W. Mellon, for the term expiring July 1, 1947. 

The Trustees deeply regret to report that Andrew W. Mellon, the 
donor of the great art collection which has been deeded to the Gallery 

29 



30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

as well as the funds for the erection of the the gallery building to 
house the collection, died on August 26, 1937; also that S. Parker 
Gilbert, one of the original general trustees, died on February 23, 
1938. On March 9, 1938, the three surviving general trustees, at a 
meeting duly held at Washington, D. C, elected Paul Mellon to 
serve the unexpired term of his father, the late Andrew W. Mellon, 
and Ferdinand Lammot Belin was elected to serve the unexpired 
term of the late S. Parker Gilbert. 

On March 9, 1938, an organization meeting of the Trustees was 
held in the Eegents Room of the Smithsonian Institution and, after 
full consideration by the Trustees, a draft of bylaws submitted at 
the meeting was adopted as the bylaws of the Trustees of the 
National Gallery of Art. 

The bylaws provide that the executive officers shall consist of the 
chairman of the Board, president, vice president, secretary, treas- 
urer, director, administrator, assistant director, chief curator, and 
such other executive officers as the Board shall determine. The 
Chief Justice of the United States, ex-officio, is the chairman of the 
Board. 

At this meeting it was determined that the regular annual meet- 
ing of the Board shall be held on the second Monday in February of 
each year, at 9 : 30 a. m. 

Also the Trustees elected the folloAving executive officers: 

Paul Mellon, president; 
David K. E. Bruce, vice president ; 
Donald D. Shepard, secretary ; 
Donald D. Shepard, treasurer ; 
David E. Finley, director. 

The officers elected stated they would serve without compensation 
for the time being. It was decided by the Trustees that the matter 
of their later compensation, if any, should be considered at a subse- 
quent meeting of the Board. The following Trustees were elected 
as members of the three standing committees, provided for in the 
bylaws : 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

Chief Justice of the United States; 
Dr. O. G. Abbot ; 
Paul Mellon; 
David K. E. Bruce; 
Donald D. Shepard. 

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE 

Paul Mellon; 
David K. E. Bruce; 
David E. Finley; 
Duncan Phillips; 
Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY . 31 



FINANCE COMMITTEE 



Hon. Henry Morgeuthau, Jr. ; 
Hon. Cordell Hull; 
Paul Mellon ; 
David K. E. Bruce: 
Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

Appropriate resolutions were passed relating to the reproduction 
by photographs, or otherwise, of works of art controlled by the 
Board, the use of such reproductions, the viewing and care of the 
collection. The Board directed the treasurer, under the supervision 
and subject to the approval of the finance committee, to cause to be 
established an appropriate accounting system, including provisions 
for the keeping of necessary books and records, so that the works 
of art now under the control of the Board and all funds, securities, 
and works of art and other properties of whatsoever character belong- 
ing to or under the control of the Board and of such additions and 
receipts thereto and disposition, withdrawals and disbursements 
therefrom, may be properly recorded. 

Under the trust indenture of June 24, 1937, between the Trustees 
of The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and the Trustees of the National Gallery of Art, 
the Smithsonian Institution received title to the works of art given 
by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, upon the 
understanding that pending completion of the Gallery, the donor 
would retain custody of the gift, at its expense, and that upon 
delivery, the gift would form part of the permanent collection in 
the custody of the Trustees of the National Gallery of Art. Pur- 
suant to its offer, accepted by the Trustees of the National Gallery 
of Art at its meeting on March 9, 1938, The A. W. Mellon Educa- 
tional and Charitable Trust has defrayed the current administrative 
expenses of the Gallery, as well as the expense of storage and the 
care of the collection pending the completion of the National Gallery 
of Art. During the 18 months ended June 30, 1938, the total of such 
administrative expenses and expenses of storage amounted to about 
$150,000 principally accounted for by insurance premiums on policies 
expiring in 1940. The collection is now stored in the Corcoran 
Gallery of Art. The collection is in excellent condition and is being 
well protected and cared for. The current expenses for the custody 
of the collection are at the rate of approximately $12,000 per annum. 
Such expenses are being paid by The A. W. Mellon Educational and 
Charitable Trust and, of course, are not recorded on the books of 
account of the National Gallery of Art. 

Pursuant to the joint resolution and the trust indenture of June 
24, 1937, The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust is 
also proceeding, at its expense, with the construction of the National 



32 • ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Gallery of Art on tlie site set aside for it by the Congress. At June 
30, 1938, $1,796,147.29 had been expended upon construction, and 
the foundations of the Gallery were substantially completed. We 
are advised that if no unusual delay, occasioned by conditions be- 
yond the contractor's control, is encountered, the Gallery will be 
completed by September 1940, and sufficient Gallery rooms will be 
available for the display of the works of art by November 1940. 
We are advised that the Trustees of The A. W. Mellon Educational 
and Charitable Trust estimate that the total cost of the building 
will exceed $15,000,000. Kecording of such expenditures in the books 
of account of the National Gallery of Art will be deferred until 
completion of the construction of the Gallery. 

Section 4 (b) of the joint resolution authorizes the Trustees to 
accept and administer gifts of money or securities. In a letter dated 
February 16, 1937, from tlie late Hon. A. W. Mellon to Hon. Kent 
E. Keller, chairman of the Committee on the Library of the House 
of Kepresentatives, Mr. Mellon stated that the endowment fund for 
the Gallery, as proposed in his letter to the President of the United 
States, had been fixed at an amount of $5,000,000. It is understood 
that this fund is expected to be received by the Trustees of the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art from the Trustees of The A. W. Mellon Edu- 
cational and Charitable Trust, at or about the time of the com- 
pletion of the National Gallery of Art. 

There were no additions to the collection of the National Gallery 
of Art during the year. However, the Gallery has received a number 
of offers of gifts of works of art. Such offers were referred to the 
acquisitions committee for consideration. Also there were no loans 
of works of art under the control of the Trustees of the Gallery 
during the year. No appropriation was made by Congress for the 
National Gallery of Art during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1938, 
and no public or private funds received or disbursed during the 
year. 

Pursuant to instructions, Price, Waterhouse & Co., a nationally 
known firm of public accountants, has made an examination of the 
accounting records of the National Gallery of Art, the accounting 
system having been installed upon the recommendation of that firm. 
Price, Waterhouse & Co. report that, based upon its examination, 
the books of account of the National Gallery of Art fairly present, 
in accordance with tlie accepted principles of accounting, the posi- 
tion of the National Gallery of Art at June 30, 1938. Copy of the 
certificate of Price, Waterhouse & Co., dated August 26, 1938, is 
attached hereto and made a part of this report. It should be noted 
that the only entry on the books of account of the National Gallery 
of Art, as of June 30, 1938, was the opening journal entry of June 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33 

24, 1937, recording its acquisition of the collection of works of art, 
there being no other transactions to June 30, 1938, which should be 
recorded in the books of account. The gift of June 24, 1937, was 
recorded on the books of account at $31,303,162.31, representing, ac- 
cording to available information, the cost to the last person to ac- 
quire the works of art by purchase. Of this amount $19,893,162.31 
represented purchases of works of art by the late Hon. Andrew W. 
Mellon, and $11,410,000 represented purchases by The A. W. Mellon 
Educational and Charitable Trust. A list of the works of art which 
were the subject of the gift of June 24, 1937, is attached to this report. 
The certificate of Price, Waterhouse & Co. states that the receipt of 
title to this gift was recorded properly in the Gallery's books by the 
opening journal entry. 

The certificate of Price, Waterhouse & Co. follows : 

August 26, 1938. 
Mr. Donald D. Shepakd, 

Treasurer, National Gallery of Art, 

716 Jackson Place NW., Washington, D. C. 

Dear Sm: Pursuant to your instructions, we have made an examination of 
the accounting records of the National Gallery of Art and other documentary 
evidence, and have obtained information and explanations from its officers. 
The only entry in its books of account as at June 30, 1938, was the opening 
journal entry dated June 24, 1937, recording its acquisition of works of art ; 
our examination disclosed no other transactions to June 30, 1938, which should 
be recorded in the books of account. 

Pursuant to joint resolution of Congress, approved March 24, 1937, and trust 
indenture dated June 24, 1937, The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable 
Trust, at its expense, is proceeding with construction of the National Gallery 
of Art. The recording of such expenditures in the books of account of the 
National Gallery of Art is deferred until completion of construction. 

By the aforementioned trust indenture title was acquired to the works of art 
given by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust. Pending con- 
struction of the Gallery, these works of art remain in the custody of the donor 
to be cared for at its expense. This gift was recorded in the books of account 
at $31,303,162.31, representing, according to available information, the cost to 
the last person to acquire the works of art by purchase. Of this amount, 
$19,893,162.31 represented purchases by Mr. A. W. Mellon and $11,410,000.00 
represented purchases by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust. 
The receipt of title to this gift was recorded properly in the Gallery's books 
by the opening journal entry previously referred to. 

An endowment fund of $5,000,000 is expected to be received from The A. W. 
Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust at about the time of completion of 
the Gallery. 

In our opinion, based upon our examination, the books of account fairly 
present, in accordance with accepted principles of accounting, the position of 
the National Gallery of Art at June 30, 1938. 
Yours very truly, 

(Signed) Price, Waterhouse & Co. 



34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

LIST OF WORKS OF ART DEEDED TO NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART JUNE 24, 1937 

Name of artist Title of picture 

Fra Augelico The Madonna and Child. 

Antonello da Messina— Do. 

Do Portrait of a Member of the Coutarini Family. 

Giovanni Bellini The Flight Into Egypt. 

Do Portrait of Young Man in Red Coat. 

Botticelli Adoration of the Magi. 

Do The Madonna and Child. 

Do Portrait of a Young Man in Brown Coat and Red Hat. 

Do Portrait of a Young Man in Mauve Coat and Red Hat. 

Byzantine Master The Madonna and Child. 

(circa 1200) 
Castagno, Andrea del — Portrait of a Young Man. 
Chardin La Maitresse d'^cole. 

Do The House of Cards. 

Christus, Petrus The Nativity. 

Cimabue Christ Between St. Peter and St. James (a triptych). 

Conegliano, Cima da The Madonna and Child With St. John the Baptist 

and St. Anthony. 

Constable A View of Salisbury Cathedral. 

Cuyp Herdsman Tending Cattle. 

Gerard David Rest During the Flight Into Egypt. 

Duccio di Buoninsegna- The Nativity With the Prophets Isaiah and Ezekiel. 

Diirer Portrait of a Man in Dark Cloak With Fur CJoUar. 

Gainsborough Portrait of Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire. 

Do Portrait of George IV V/hen Prince of Wales. 

Do Landscape With a Bridge. 

Do Portrait of Miss Catherine Tatton. 

Do Portrait of Mrs. John Taylor. 

Do Portrait of Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan. 

School of Giotto Large Panel Representing St. Paul. 

Giovanni di Paolo The Adoration of the Magi. 

Goya Portrait of Senora Sebasa Garcia. 

Do Portrait of the Marquesa de Pontejos. 

Do Portrait of King Carlos IV of Spain. 

Do Portrait of Queen Maria Luisa of Spain. 

El Greco San Ildefouso of Toledo. 

Do St. Martin and Beggar. 

Frans Hals Portrait of Balthasar Coymans. 

Do Portrait of an OflBcer With a Red Sash. 

Do Portrait of Nicholas Berghem. 

Do Portrait of an Old Lady Seated. 

Do Portrait of a Young Man. 

Hobbema La Ferme au Soleil. 

Do The Holford Landscape. 

Do Village Scene. 

Hans Holbein (The 
Younger) Portrait of Sir Bryan Tuko. 

Do Portrait of Edward VI as a Boy. 

Pieter de Hoogh A Dutch Courtyard. 

Hoppner The Frankland Sisters. 

Lancret, Nicholas The Dancer. La Camargo. 

Lawrence Lady Templetown and Child. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35 

Name of artist Title of picture ' 

Lippi, Filippino The Madonna and Child With Angel. 

Luini Portrait of a Lady. 

Maes, Nicholas Portrait of au Old Lady at Prayer. 

Mantegua St. Jerome in the Wilderness. 

Masaccio Profile Portrait of a Young Man. 

Do The Madonna of Humility. 

Masolino da Panicale--. The Annunciation. 

Matteo di Giovanni The Adoration of the Magi. 

Do The Virgin and Child With Angels. 

Memling Portrait of a Man With an Arrow. 

Do The Madonna and Child With Angels. 

Lippo Memmi The Madonna and Child. 

Metsu The Intruder. 

Master Michael Portrait of a Donor (A Knight of the Order of 

Calatrava). 

Moro Sclf-Portrait With his Dog. 

Neroccio dei Landi The Vestal Claudia Quinta. 

Allegretto Nuzi da 

Fabriano The Virgin Enthroned (a triptych). 

Perugino Crucifixion With the Virgin, SS. John, Magdalen, and 

Jerome (a triptych). 

Pisanello A Portrait of a Lady Presumed to be Isotta degli Atti. 

Raeburn Portrait of Colonel Francis James Scott. 

Do Portrait of John Tait and His Grandson. 

Do Portrait of Miss Eleanor Urquhart. 

Raphael The Madonna and Child (known as the Niccolini or 

Cowper Madonna). 

Do Madonna of the House of Alba. 

Do St. George and the Dragon. 

Rembrandt Portrait of an Old Lady Seated in an Armchair. 

Do Lucretia. 

Do Portrait of Himself, Dated 1659. 

Do Portrait of a Polish Nobleman. 

Do Portrait of a Young Woman Holding a Pink. 

Do Joseph and Potiphar's Wife. 

Do Portrait of a Girl With a Broom. 

Do Portrait of a Young Man at Table. 

Reynolds Portrait of Lady Betty Delm6 and Her Children. 

Do Portrait of Lady Caroline Howard. 

Do Portrait of Lady Betty Compton. 

Romney Portrait of Lady Broughton. 

Do Portrait of Mrs. Davenport. 

Do Portrait of Miss Willoughby. 

Rubens Portrait of Isabella Brant, First Wife of the Artist. 

Do Portrait of Suzanne Fourment and Daughter. 

Stamina The Virgin Enthroned with SS. Mark, Benedict, 

Bernard and Catherine (a triptych). 

Terborch A Gentleman Greeting a Lady. 

Titian The Madonna and Child With the Infant St. John in 

Landscape. 

Do Portrait of a Man (Andrea dei Franceschi). 

Do The Toilet of Venus. 

Turner Mortlake Terrace (Summer Evening). 

114728—39 4 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

Name of artist Title of picture 

Turner Approach to Venice. 

Rogier van der Weyden. Portrait of a Lady in a White Veil. 

Do The Risen Saviour Appearing to His Mother. 

Van Dycli Portrait of Lord Phillip Wharton. 

Do Portrait of William II of Nassau and Orange 

Do Portrait of the Marchesa Balbi. 

Van Eyck The Annunciation. 

Velasquez Portrait of Pope Innocent X. 

Do Portrait of a Young Man. 

Do Woman Sewing. 

Vermeer, Jan Girl With a Red Hat. 

Do The Lace Maker. 

Do Smiling Girl. 

Veneziano, Domenico Portrait of a Member of the Olivieri Family 

Veronese The Finding of Moses. 

SCULPTURES 
Name of sculptor Title of sculpture 

Agostino di Duccio Madonna and Child (marble has relief). 

Amadeo 2 marble plaques with bust portraits in relief of Lodo- 

vico Sforza and Gian Galeazzo Sforza. 

Giovanni da Bologna A bronze statue representing Mercury. 

Donatello Bust of Youthful St. John the Baptist (painted terra 

cotta). 

Do Painted terra cotta statuette representing Madonna and 

Child. 

Fiesole, Mino da 2 marble plaques representing Charity and Faith. 

Do Madonna and Child (marble relief). 

Laurana White marble bust of a Princess of Aragon. 

Luoa della Robbia The Madonna and Child (tondo) (enameled terra cotta 

relief). 

Do The Madonna and Child (upright) (enameled terra 

cotta relief). 

Do The Virgin Adoring the Child (unglazed terra cotta). 

Rossellino, Antonio The Madonna and Child (terra cotta). 

Suusovino, Jacopo Life size statue in bronze representing Bacchus and a 

Young Faun. 

Do Life size statue in bronze representing Venus Anadyo- 

mene. 
Desiderio da Settignano- Bust of Giovanna Degli Albizzi. 

Do Christ and St. John the Baptist in Their Childhood 

(marble relief). 

Do Life size marble bust of boy. 

Do The Madonna and Child (marble relief). 

Verrocchio Statuette of Boy Poised on Globe (terra cotta). 

Do Bust of Giovanna Tornabuoni (terra cotta). 

Do Bust of Giuliano de Medici (terra cotta). 

Eespectf uUy submitted. 

Paul Mellon, 
President^ National Gallery of Art. 



Dr. C. G. Abbot 



Secretary.^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 3 
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ- 
ities of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1938 : 

The name "National Collection of Fine Arts," which has now 
been in existence for a year and a quarter, is perhaps still not well 
understood. I wish to call attention, therefore, to the fact that the 
National Collection of Fine Arts is the name now used to designate 
the art collections administered by the Smithsonian Institution, with 
the exception of those which The Andrew W. Mellon Charitable and 
Educational Foundation will place in the building now under con- 
struction which will be known as the "National Gallery of Art." 

Congress, late in the last session, passed a bill authorizing the 
Smithsonian Institution to obtain plans for a building to be known 
as the "Smithsonian Gallery of Art," and authorizing the President 
to select a site for it on the Mall between Fourth and Fourteenth 
Streets. This new building will house the art collections under the 
charge of the Smithsonian Institution which are not to be in the 
National Gallery of Art. The bill also authorized the soliciting of 
funds for the construction of the Smithsonian Gallery of Art, and for 
an endowment to be used in purchasing works of art. 

There were 484 visitors to the main office during the year. Many 
submitted art objects for examination and identification, and others 
sought general information. 

APPKOPRIATIONS 

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts by 
the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary 
employees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling 
expenses, uniforms for guards, and necessary incidental expenses, 
$34,275 was appropriated. This amount was reduced $750, bringing 
it to $33,525, of which $16,542 was expended for the care and mainte- 
nance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the National Collection 
of Fine Arts. The 'balance of $16,983 was spent for the care and 
upkeep of the National Collection of Fine Arts, nearly all of this sum 
being required for the payment of salaries, traveling expenses, books, 
periodicals, and other necessary disbursements for the care of the col- 

37 



38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

lections, so that only a very small sum was available for improvements 
in the exhibition halls. 

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION 

The seventeenth annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art 
Commission was held on December 7, 1937. The members met at 
10 : 30 at the rooms of the National Collection of Fine Arts, in the 
Natural History Building, where, as the advisory committee on the 
acceptance of works of art which had been submitted during the 
year, they accepted the following: 

A wood gravure of "Rockwell Studio," by Macowin Tuttle. Gift of Mrs. Mary 
E. Lathrop, Rockford, 111. 

The members then proceeded to the Smithsonian Building, where 
the annual meeting was called to order by the chairman, Mr. Borie. 
The members present were: Charles L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank 
Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman; Dr. Charles G. Abbot (ex officio), 
secretary; and Herbert Adams, Gifford Beal, George H. Edgell, 
James E. Fraser, John E. Lodge, Paul Manship, George B. Mc- 
Clellan, Edward W. Redfield, and Mahonri M. Young. Kuel P. 
Tolman, curator of the Division of Graphic Arts in the United States 
National Museum and acting director of the National Collection of 
Fine Arts, was also present. 

The following resolutions on the death of Mr. AndrcAv W. Mellon 
were submitted and adopted, and Secretary Abbot was requested 
to convey a copy to Mr. Mellon's family : 

Whereas the National Gallery of Art Commission has learned of the death, 
on August 26, 1937, of Andrew W. Mellon, a member of this Commission since 
1934 ; therefore be it 

Resolved, That the Commission records its sincere sorrow at the passing of 
Mr. Mellon, who devoted many years of his long life to assembling an excep- 
tionally fine collection of paintings and scTilpture. With patriotic generosity 
he gave in 1937 this outstariding collection of masterpieces to the Smithsonian 
Institution for the United States with the hope that Washington would become 
the art center of the world. At the same time he provided funds for a monu- 
mental marble building to be known as the National Gallery of Art, and 
arranged for an endowment, proposed to be $5,000,000. No other gift of art 
has ever equalled this one. 

Mr. Mellon had a deep interest also in the great building program of the 
Government, and did much, as Secretary of the Treasury, to promote it. Al- 
though he lived to a great age, the Commission deeply deplores the untimely 
death of Mr. Mellon before he could see and enjoy the full fruition of his work 
and his beneficence. 

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Commission 
and that the Secretary be requested to convey a cop3J to the family of Mr. 
Mellon. 

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the name 
of David E. Finley to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. 
Mellon. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39 

It also recommended to the Board of Regents the reelection for 
the succeeding term of 4 years of the following members : Charles L. 
Borie, Jr., Frederick P. Keppel, George B. McClellan, and Mahonri 
Young. 

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Charles 
L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman; 
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary; as Avell as the members of the 
executive committee — Charles Moore, Herbert Adams, and George 
B. McClellan (Charles L. Borie, Jr., as chairman of the Commission, 
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, as secretary of the Commission, are ex- 
officio members of the executive committee). 

The advisability of recommending to the Board of Regents a changes 
in the name of the Commission was considered and the following 
minute was agreed upon: 

Owing to the appropriation of the name "National Gallery of Art" to the 
gallery being erected to contain the gift of Mr. Mellon, the Commission recom- 
mends to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution that its name 
be changed from "National Gallery of Art Commission" to "Smithsonian Gallery 
of Art Commission." ^ 

The question of a building for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art, to 
contain the National Collection of Fine Arts, and of a site for such a 
gallery, was discussed, and Dr. Abbot, Messrs. Borie, McClellan, 
Moore, and Keppel (with the addition of Mr. Edgell in case Mr. 
Keppel was not available) were appointed to consider the two pend- 
ing Congressional resolutions on this subject (S. J. Res. 99, by Senator 
Walsh, and H. J. Res. 280, by Representative Keller). 

It was decided that future annual meetings should be held on the 
first Tuesday in December of each year. 

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MTER FUND 

Five miniatures were acquired from the fund established through 
the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer, as follows : 

"Portrait of Henry Trescot," painted in 1822 by Charles Fraser 
(1782-1860) ; from Mrs. Grace M. Trescot, Washington, D. C. 

"Portrait of Elizabeth Knapp," by James Peale, 1802 ; from H. D. 
Miller, Baltimore, Md. 

"Portrait of Charles Frederick Vogel," attributed to Rembrandt 
Peale ; from Mrs. Margaret G. Mack Harrison, Raleigh Court, Univer- 
sity, Va., through Miss Leila Mechlin. 

"Portrait of Dr. George Ackerly," by Henry Inman (1801-1846) : 
from Mrs. Josephine C. Gager, Washington, D, C. 

"Portrait of Napoleon III," signed "F. cle Fournier, Paris, 52;" 
from Miss Marion Lane, Washington, D. C. 

iThe Board of Regents, after careful consideration, decided that the name should ba 
"Smithsonian Art Commission." 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



LOANS ACCEPTED 

Two portraits in pastel, by James Sharpies (c. 1751-1811) of Gen- 
eral James Miles Hughes (1756-1802), original member of the Society 
of the Cincinnati, and Mrs. James Miles Hughes, his wife, were lent 
by Madame Florian Vurpillot, Washington, D. C. 

LOANS MADE 

"The Cup of Death," by Elihu Vedder, was lent to The American 
Academy of Arts and Letters, New York, N. Y., for a Memorial Ex- 
hibition planned for the period November 18, 1937, to May 1, 1938, 
but the picture was returned April 12, 1938. 

"Portrait of Thomas Hopkinson," by Robert Feke, and "Portrait 
of Mary Hopkinson," by Benjamin West, from the George Buchanan 
Coale (1819-87) Collection, Baltimore, were lent to the United States 
Constitution Sesquicentennial Commission for a historical loan exhi- 
bition of authentic portraits of the Signers of the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence and the Deputies to the Constitutional Convention, held at 
the Corcoran Gallery of Art from November 27, 1937, to March 1, 
1938. (Returned March 3, 1938.) 

"Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory," by 
Thomas Moran, was lent to the Whitney Museum of American Art, 
New York, N. Y., for "A Century of American Landscape Painting," 
which was held from January 19 to February 27, 1938. 

At the conclusion of the above exhibition, the painting "Cliffs of 
the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory," by Thomas Moran, 
was forwarded to The Springfield Museum of Fine Arts, Springfield, 
Mass., for "A Century of American Landscape Painting 1800-1900" 
which was held from March 8 to 28, 1938. (Returned April 2, 1938.) 

The following 20 paintings were lent to the Howard University Gal- 
lery of Art for an exhibition of American paintings from May 2 to 
June 13, 1938 : 

At Nature's Mirror, by Ralph A. Blakelock. 

Caresse Enfantine, by Mary Cassatt. 

Portrait Slietch of Walter Sbirlaw, by Frank Duveneck. 

A Pool in the Forest, by Benjamin R. Fitz. 

Birch-Clad Hills, by Ben Foster. 

Ideal Head, by George Fuller. 

Portrait of Mrs. Albert J. Myer, by George P. A. Healy. 

The Visit of the Mistress, by Winslow Homer. 

Friendly Neighbors, by Alfred O. Howland. 

Georgia Pines, by George Innes. 

Evening on the Seine, by Homer D. Martin. 

Great Silas at Night, by Robert C. Minor. 

Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory, by Thomas Moran. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41 

The Path to the Village, by J. Francis Murphy. 

Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder. 

Late Afternoon (The Alcazar, Segovia), by Wells M. Sawyer. 

Portrait of Joseph Head, by Gilbert Stuart. 

Edwin M. Stanton, by Henry Ulke. 

Koosevelt Haunts, Early Autumn, by Emile Walters. 

Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander H. Wyant. 

(Returned June 14, 1938.) 

LOANS RETURNED 

Three paintings, "Madonna with Halo of Stars," "Adoration of 
the Christ Child," and "The Christ Child with Cross and Torch," 
by undetermined artists, lent to the Public Library of the District 
of Columbia, December 16, 1936, were returned September 27, 1937. 

A bronze statue of Lincoln, by Augustus Saint Gaudens, lent, with 
the consent of the owners, the Estate of Mrs. John Hay, to the 
Great Lakes Exposition, Cleveland, Ohio, was returned October 5, 
1937. 

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS 

An oil painting entitled "The Immaculate Conception with the 
Mirror," by Murillo, lent in 1930; withdrawn by the owner, DeWitt 
V. Hutchings, Riverside, Calif., on November 19, 1937. 

Two portraits, "Miss Jessie Jay Burge," by Abbott H. Thayer, and 
"Miss Elizabeth Ellery Burge," by Thomas Mathewson, lent in 1922; 
withdrawn by the owners, the Misses Marie Louise and Jessie Jay 
Burge, Wickford, R. I., on March 3, 1938. 

Portrait of Abraham Lincoln, by M. S. Nachtrieb, lent in 1921; 
withdrawn by the owner, Anton HeitmuUer, Washington, D. C, on 
April 11, 1938. 

One Sevres porcelain statuette, by Paul Dubois, entitled "Le Cour- 
age Militaire," lent in 1930 ; withdrawn by the owner, Hon. Hoffman 
Philip, Washington, D. C, on May 17, 1938. 

"A Madonna," by Giovanni Battista Salvi (called II Sassoferrato), 
lent in 1929 ; withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. Charles J. Fox, La Jolla, 
Calif., on May 31, 1938. 

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES 

The paintings purchased during the year by the Council of the 
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry 
Ward Ranger Bequest, which, under certain conditions, are prospec- 
tive additions to our collections, and the names of the institutions to 
which they have been assigned, are as follows (these are the first 
purchases since April 1933) : 



42 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



Title 



Date of 
purcbase 



Assignment 



112. Medieval Art. 



113. Fifteenth Century 

Frencli Madonna and 
ChUd. 

114. Boxholder No. 27 



Edwin H. Blashfield, N, A. 
(1848-1936). 

Harry W. Watrous, N. A... 



Francis Speight, A. N. A. 
(elect). 



December 
1937. 



.do— 



-.do... 



William Rockhill Nelson Gal- 
lery of Art, Kansas City, 
Mo. 

Not assigned. 



Trustees of the Wood Art Gal- 
lery, Montpelier, Vt. 



THE NATIONAL. COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY 

The 795 publications accessioned during the year were obtained 
through purchase, transfer, gift, and exchange. 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 

Six exhibitions were held as follows: 

August 2 to 8, 1937. — A special exhibition of the art of Mexican 
school children, 262 items, sponsored by the Ministry of Education, 
Mexican Government, through Dr. L. S. Howe, of the Pan American 
Union. 

October 15 to 31^ 1937,— Joint exhibition of the Twenty Women 
Painters and the Landscape Club, of Washington, D. C. Fifty-two 
paintings were exhibited by the Twenty Women Painters and 61 
by the Landscape Club, 

February 4 to ^/, 1938. — A special exhibition of 74 water colors by 
William Spencer Bagdatopoulos. 

April 6 to 29, 1938. — A special exhibition of 85 paintings, 20 framed 
and 41 unframed water colors, 34 etchings, and 33 pieces of sculpture 
from the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

April 13 to May 7, 1938. — A special exhibition of three portraits 
by Henrique Medina, sponsored by Dr. Joao Antonio de Bianchi, 
Minister from Portugal. 

June 3 to 30, 1938. — A special exhibition of 260 naval historical 
prints from the Eberstadt Collection, lent by the Naval Historical 
Foundation. (This exhibition was extended through August.) 

PUBLICATIONS 

ToLMAN, R. P. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts for the year end- 
ing June 30, 1937. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1937, pp. 35-42. 

Lodge, J, E. Report of the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 
1937. Appendix 3, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
for the year ending June 30, 1937, pp. 43-47. 

Respectfully submitted. 

R. P. ToLMAN, Acting Director. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 4 
EEPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the eighteenth annual report on 
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1938 : 

THE COLLECTIONS 

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows: 



38.5. Chinese, Chou dynasty. A ceremonial vessel of the type Tcuang. White 

bronze with a smooth apple-green patina; traces of red earth adhe- 
sions. The decoration is delicately cut in low and incised relief. 
Inscriptions in vessel and cover. 0.235 by 0.310 by 0.112. (Illustrated.) 

38.6. Chinese, Chou dynasty. A ceremonial vessel of the type cliili. White 

bronze having a silvery-green patina, with areas of rough green; 
earthy adhesions. The decoration is in low relief. 0.190 by 0.089. 
( Illustrated. ) 

.38.7 Chinese, fifth-third centuries, B. C. Period of the Warring States. A 
food-vessel; four animalistic knobs on the cover and mask-and-ring 
handles on the body. White bronze having a smooth gray-green 
patina, with areas of incrustation outside; a rough green aerugo 
inside. The decoration is inlaid with silver and turquoise. 0.148 by 
0.222. 

38.8. Chinese, T'ang dynasty. A mirror. The surface shows a lustrous gray 
patina with areas of green and black, and patches of earthy adhe- 
sions. The decoration consists of a dragon in clouds, executed in 
low relief. 0.212 (diameter). 



37.45. Chinese, Ch'ing, eighteenth century, period of Ch'ien Lung. A ju-i 

sceptre of gold filigree adorned with turquoise inlays. The designs of 
the latter include those of the "Eight Treasures." A silk tassel is 
attached through a turquoise bead. Length, 0.240 (exclusive of tas- 
sel). (Illustrated.) 

JADE 

38.16. Chinese, fifth-third centuries, B. C. Period of the Warring States. The 
figure of a female dancer, carved in translucent white nephrite; an 
eyelet for attachment. Height, 0.080. 

MANUSCEIPT 

37.46. Arabic (Persia), twelfth century. A bound volume of the Qur'an (in- 

complete). The text is written on paper leaves in Persian Mifl script 
in black ink with diacritics in red and green, 10 lines on a page. 
Chapter titles, marginal marks, and verse-stops are illuminated. 0.314 
by 0.202 (average leaf). 

43 



44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

38.15. Arabic, fourteenth century. A paper leaf from a Qur'an. Illuminated 
title-piece, marginal ornaments and verse-stops. The text is written 
in naskhl script in gold and blue, 11 lines on a page. 0.344 by 0.259. 

PAINTING 

38.4. Chinese, Sung period, thirteenth century. By Kung K'ai. Chung K'uei, 
the demon-queller, on his travels. Ink on paper. Signature and 
inscription by the artist ; 22 other inscriptions ; 138 seals plus one 
seal on the label. Makimono : 0.328 by 1.695. 

38.9. Chinese, Yiian dynasty, A. D. 1362. By Ni Tsan (1301-1374). Land- 

scape. Ink on paper. Signature, dated. Forty-five seals on the 
painting; two on the mount. Nine inscriptions. Makimono: 0.300 by 
0.503. 
38.17. Indian^ Rajput, about 1600. Hanuman standing before Rama and Sita, 
enthroned and attended by Laksmana. Opaque color and gold on 
paper. 0.163 by 0.245. 

38.1. Persian (Mesopotamia), Baghdad school, A. D. 1222. By 'Abdallah ibn 

al-Fadl. Two physicians cutting a plant. In opaque colors and gold 
on paper. This leaf is from the well-known Arabic translation of the 
Materia Medica of Dioscorides; the text is written in naskhl script 
in brown ink with headings and punctuation in red. 0.330 by 0.249 
(leaf). 

38.2. Persian, early fourteenth century. An Uustration from a ManafV al- 

Hayawdn: a deer and magpies. In transparent colors, black and 
slight gold on paper. Titles (recto and verso) are written in monu- 
mental Mfi script in blue; the text in a small naskM hand in black 
and red. 0.260 by 0.200 (leaf). 

38.3. Persian, Mongol school, fourteenth century. An illustration from a 

Sliahnamah of Firdawsi; the bier of Iskandar (Alexander the Great). 
In colors, black and gold on paper. The title of the painting is 
written above it in gold nasJchl script ; the text in black naskhl. 0.408 
by 0.298 (leaf). 0250 by O280 (painting). 
38.14. Persian, early Timurid period, Mongol school. Fourteenth century. 
Two women carrying a tray with cups and a spouted pot. Ink out- 
line, with additions of gold, and transparent red, blue, and green, 
on paper. 0.195 by 0.158. 

POKCELAIN 

38.10. Chinese, eighteenth century, period of Ch'ien Lung (A. D. 1736-95). A 

vase. Hard, semitranslucent clay ; brilliant gray-white glaze. Deco- 
rated vsdth landscape designs painted in colored enamels over glaze. 
Inscription and three seals painted over glaze; a date-mark in under- 
glaze blue under the foot. 0.244 by 0.132. 



38.12. Persian, thirteenth century. Rhages (Raiy). A bowl (broken and re- 
paired). Soft sandy, white clay; opaque white glaze (crazed) ; blue 
border outside, and blue wash over the foot. The decoration is painted 
in polychrome enamels and gold : inside, two seated figures ; outside, a 
formal pattern. 0.088 by 0.230. (Illustrated.) 



Secretary's Report, 1938. — Appendix 4 



PLATE 1 




Some Recent Additions to the Collection of the Freer Gallery of Art. 



Secretary's Report. 1938. — Appendix 4 



PLATE 2 




Some recent additions to the Collection of the Freer Gallery of Art» 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45 

3S.13. Persian, thirteenth century. Rhages (Raiy). A bowl. Soft, sandy, 
white clay; opaque grayish-white glaze (crazed and clouded). The 
decoration is painted in polychrome enamels, on both inner and outer 
surfaces, including a medallion under the foot. An auspicious in- 
scription executed in kufl script in white reserve on a blue ground. 
0.086 by 0.205. 

STONE SCULPTURE 

38.11. Egyptian, Old Kingdom, IV-V Dynasty. The head of a young king 
wearing the crown of Upper Egypt. (The beard and one eye-ball 
are missing ; one ear is chipped ; the tip of the crown has been 
broken ofC and replaced). Diorite. The right eye-ball is made of 
fine marl, originally held in place by a copper band of which two 
small fragments (completely oxidized) remain. Height, 0.580. 

Curatorial work during the past year has been devoted to the 
study of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Tibetan, East Indian, Egyptian, 
Arabic, Persian, Aramaic, and Armenian objects of art, inckiding 
manuscripts, and of the texts, inscriptions, or seals associated with 
them — and in the preparation of this material for Gallery records. 
Other things from some of these fields, and also Assyrian, Cretan, 
Byzantine, and European objects were sent or brought to the Di- 
rector by their owners for expert opinion as to identity, provenance, 
age, quality, and so on. In all, 810 objects and 316 photographs of 
objects were submitted, and written or oral reports were made to 
the institutions or private owners who asked for this service. Writ- 
ten translations of 20 inscriptions in Oriental languages also were 
made upon request. 

Changes in exhibition have involved a total of 75 objects, as 
follows : 

Arabic and Persian calligraphy 20 

Persian painting 18 

Chinese bronze 14 

Chinese gold 1 

Chinese gold and iron 2 

Chinese painting 5 

Chinese porcelain 6 

Chinese pottery 9 

ATTENDANCE 

The Gallery has been open to the public every day from 9 until 
4 : 30 o'clock, with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and 
New Year's Day. 

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance 
was 120,241. One hundred eighty-six other visitors on Mondays 
makes the grand total 120,427. The total attendance for week-days, 
exclusive of Mondays, was 86,652; Sundays, 33,589. The average 
week-day attendance was 279; the average Sunday attendance, 646. 



46 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

The highest monthly attendance was reached in July, 18,182; the 
lowest in December, 5,827. 

There were 1,646 visitors to the main office during the year. The 
purposes of their visits were as follows: 

For general information 466 

To see objects in storage 503 

Far Eastern paintings 109 

Tibetan paintings 1 

Near Eastern paintings and manuscripts 41 

East Indian paintings and manuscripts 3 

American paintings 50 

Whistler prints 15 

Oriental pottery, jade, bronzes, sculptures 195 • 

East Christian paintings 2 

Washington Manuscripts 87 

To read in the library 192 

To make tracings and sketches from library books 6 

To see building and installation 11 

To obtain permission to photograph or sketch 10 

To examine or purchase photographs 388 

To submit objects for examination 168 

To see members of the staff 173 

To see the exhibition galleries on Mondays 53 

LECTURES AND DOCENT SERVICE 

Two illustrated lectures on Musulman Painting were given by 
Eustache de Lorey, Paris, Former Director of the French Institute 
of Arts and Archaeology, Damascus, Syria : 

Friday, April 8 : Wasiti, a 13th century painter in Baghdad. 
Saturday, April 9: Islam at grips with China. 

One hundred and twenty-six persons attended these lectures. 

Upon request, 9 groups, ranging from 6 to 17 persons (total 89), 
were given instruction in the study rooms. One group of 17 per- 
sons was given instruction in the storage rooms, and 10 groups rang- 
ing from 7 to 50 persons (total 213) were given docent service in 
the exhibition galleries. 

PERSONNEL 

On October 1, 1937, to the regret of all those associated with him, 
occurred the death of Frederick R. Brill, watchman, who had been 
at the Gallery since July 1, 1925. 

William R. B. Acker, student assistant, returned from Japan on 
December 22, 1937. 

On January 1, 1938, the title "Curator" was changed to "Director" 
and on May 11 the following titles of members of the staff became 
effective : 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47 

Grace Dunham Guest, assistant director. 
Carl W. Bishop, associate in archeology. 
Archibald G. Wenley, associate in research, 

Grace T. Whitney worked intermittently at the Gallery between 

October 20, 1937, and June 30, 1938, on translations of Persian texts. 

Respectfully submitted. 



Dr. C. G, Abbot, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



J. E. Lodge, Director. 



APPENDIX 5 

KEPOET ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field 
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1938, conducted 
in accordance with the act of Congress of June 28, 1937. The act 
referred to contains the following item: 

American ethnology : For continuing ethnological researches among the Amer- 
ican Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation of 
archeologic remains nnder the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, in- 
cluding necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and 
illustrations, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses, 
$58,730. 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 

During the greater part of the fiscal year, M. W. Stirling, Chief 
of the Bureau, was in Washington engaged in administrative duties 
and in preparation of various publications. 

From the latter part of January until the middle of March, 1938, 
Mr. Stirling was in Mexico examining archeological sites and museum 
collections. A site in the Canton of the Tuxtlas south of Veracruz 
was selected for excavation during the winter of 1938-39. 

At the begimiing of the fiscal year. Dr. John R. Swantoii, ethnol- 
ogist, was engaged in the preparation of the final report of his re- 
searches in the interests of the United States De Soto Expedition 
Commission, of which he is chairman. One field expedition was 
undertaken in connection with this research. It was directed in 
the first instance to the southern part of Clarke County, Alabama, at 
the invitation of James Y. Brame, Jr., of Montgomery, an indefat- 
igable student of the route of De Soto, who hoped that he had dis- 
covered the site of the old town of Mabila, where occurred a notable 
battle between the Spaniards and Indians on October 18, 1540. The 
site in question, at a place called Lower James Hammock, on the 
bluff above Choctaw Lake, proved to be an interesting one and 
specimens of certain novelty types of pottery were obtained, but the 
question as to its identity with Mabila is still in doubt, the evidence 
being rather negative. After this work was finished an attempt was 
made to locate other Indian town sites in the southeastern part of the 
county, but, aside from a very small one previously identified by Mr. 

49 



50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Brame, nothing was found, there being, in fact, a singular dearth 
of Indian remains in this county in the section "where it would be 
natural to look for Mabila. In the southwestern part of the county, 
however, there is a spot to which the Indians resorted for salt, on© 
noted on early French maps, and here a considerable collection of 
potsherds was made and a number of pictures of the site taken. 
Wliile Dr. Swanton was engaged in this investigation, the Choctaw 
Hunting and Fishing Club kindly extended the use of its camp at 
Choctaw Bluff. 

After returning to Montgomery, Dr. Swanton proceeded to Tus- 
caloosa and David De Jarnette, assistant to Prof. Walter S. Jones, 
took him to Scottsboro and afterward on a number of trips along 
the part of the Tennessee River valley believed to have been traversed 
by De Soto. It seems to be indicated rather clearly that the Span- 
iards crossed and recrossed this several times. Before returning to 
Washington Dr. Swanton attended a meeting on October 29-30 called 
by the De Soto Committee of the Society of the Colonial Dames of 
America in preparation for a celebration of the quadricentennial of 
the passage of the Mississippi by De Soto, and he delivered an 
address at one of the sessions. 

Dr. Swanton has also added some further material to his large 
paper on the Indians of the Southeast. 

In December he presided as vice-president over several sessions 
of Section H, American Association for the Advancement of Science, 
at Indianapolis. 

In March he was appointed to the United States Board on Geo- 
graphical Names to occupy the place made vacant by the death of 
J. IST. B. Hewitt, and he attended the twelfth annual meeting on 
May 23. 

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, left Washington early in July 
1937 to undertake field work among the Montagnais-Naskapi Indians 
of the northern shore of the St. Lawrence River and vicinity. This 
work was made possible through a generous grant-in-aid made by 
the American Council of Learned Societies. He arrived at Natash- 
quan July 12 and spent 18 days there, following which he continued 
his investigations at Seven Islands, Moisie, and Bersimis. Owing to 
the migratory habits of the Indians Dr. Michelson was able to get 
data not only on Indians of the localities named but also others in 
this region, including Mingan, St. Margeret's River, Godbout, Shel- 
terbay, and Sheldrake. He was also able to check up his previous 
information on the Indians of Davis Inlet, far north on the Labrsi- 
dor coast; and by good fortune came in contact with an Indian of a 
band from the northeast corner of Lake Kaniapiskau — a band barely 
laiown to the scientific world. The principal object was to complete 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51 

a map showing the distrihution and interrelations of the Cree and 
Montagnais-Naskapi dialects. In addition to the linguistic work 
which was the primary purpose of the trip, many new etlmological 
data were obtained, together with certain observations in physical 
anthropology. The remainder of the year was spent in Washing- 
ton in the preparation of manuscripts and in routine work. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. John P. Harrington, eth- 
nologist, finished a comparative study of the Tano-Kiowan family 
of languages, a compact body of dialects which have inherited the 
same phonetics, grammatical peculiarities, and vocabulary, although 
the Tanoan branch is typically Pueblo in culture while the Kiowa 
branch is equally typical of the Western Plains culture. No lin- 
guistic study shows better how habitat has produced two cultures by 
migration from a linguistic nucleus which had perhaps originally a 
third culture — possibly like that of the Flatheads of the northern 
Rockies, from which region the linguistic progenitors of both Ta- 
noans and Kiowans apparently came. The Tano-Kiowan situation, 
however, is clearer than the surprisingly similar Athapascan situa- 
tion, since there is historic information on the northern origin of 
the Kiowa, whereas the migration of any body of southern Athapas- 
cans from the north still remains theoretical. It is established that 
both the Tanoans and the southern Athapascans of the southwest- 
ern United States are of comparatively recent northern origin, at 
least as far as their language-transmitting ancestors are concerned. 

Returning to the study of the Devils Tower, which has a bearing 
on the Tano-Kiowan provenience problem. Dr. Harrington was 
assisted materially by Newell F. Joyner, custodian of the Devils 
Tower National Monument, Devils Tower, Wyo., who supplied a mass 
of material, including maps and other data. If the Kiowans came 
from the somewhat far north, it is certain that their linguistic 
relatives, the Tanoans, did also. 

Working by similar methods, Dr. Harrington also made a study 
of the Athapascan peoples. Here we have a northern linguistic 
nucleus still extant, not of the past but of the present, and a family 
of languages more intimately associated with the problem of the 
original entry of man from Siberia into America, since if we exclude 
the somewhat aloof-standing Eskimo, all the territory of America 
nearest Asia is occupied by the Athapascan and related Tlingit 
tongues. 

Following up Goddard's discovery that the Kiowa-Apache-Lipan- 
Jicarilla form a separate language group, having shifted over- 
aspirated tx to hh^ that is, the x having assimilated the t to its 
articulatory position, Thomas' recent work on the Prairie Apaches 
was found of interest. A considerable list of the Prairie Apaches are 

114728—39 5 



52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

known to us by name through the old Spanish historical documents of 
New Mexico, showing that the kh language was spoken by many tribes 
which covered a large area of the High Plains. The northernmost 
of these tribes is reported in old Spanish sources from what is now 
northeastern Colorado, only 150 miles south of the Black Hills. This 
takes away the element of novelty from the fact that the Kiowa- 
Apache joined the Kiowa in the Black Hills region about the year 
1800 or earlier, and shows that the Kiowa-Apache also were merely 
one of the kh speaking tribes, typically Prairie Apaches, and not an 
Athapascan people en route migrating from Canada, as Goddard at 
first conjectured. A report was finished on the northern provenience 
of the Navaho and Apache. 

Considerable time was also spent on a new sign language study, 
through Kiowa informants and other sources, bringing out addi- 
tional information regarding the nature and structure of this inter- 
esting Plains Indian invention. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., 
archeologist, was conducting excavations at the Lindenmeier Site 
north of Fort Collins, Colo. This was a continuation of the pro- 
gram of investigations started in the fall of 1934 and carried on 
during succeeding summers. The location is one where Folsom 
man, one of the earliest known New World inhabitants, camped 
and made the weapons and tools that were used in killing and 
dressing the big game that constituted his main source of sustenance. 
Work was resumed in 1937 at the point where the 1936 activities 
terminated and at the end of the summer an area of some 2,800 square 
feet had been uncovered and numerous traces of occupation noted 
and studied. Several places were found where bison and other large 
animals had been dismembered, cooking fires lighted, and a feast 
enjoyed. At other places there were indications that individuals had 
been seated there manufacturing stone projectile points, knives, and 
scrapers. Many charts were drawn recording the nature of the 
assemblages of bones and stone implements and showing their distri- 
bution. In addition, 133 diagrams illustrating the character of the 
overlying deposits were prepared as the excavations progressed. 
These, together with the extensive notes on the work, add valuable 
data to the body of information on the mode of life and customs 
of the people. A collection of 735 specimens was obtained and 
among them were several new forms of knives, scrapers, and points. 
These broaden the knowledge relative to the general complex and 
nature of the material culture. 

At the close of the excavating season Dr. Roberts proceeded to 
North Platte, Nebr., where he inspected a number of collections be- 
longing to local residents and visited the sites where many of them 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53 

were found. Through the interest of K. R. Langford, of North 
Platte, he was able to see a number of locations where Folsom-type 
objects have been found and add to the series of notes that is being 
kept on the subject of Folsom distribution. From North Platte Dr. 
Roberts returned to Washington. 

The winter and spring months were devoted to office duties. These 
included the study of the material obtained during the summer's 
excavations and the revision and completion for publication of a 
manuscript on archeological work done in the Whitewater District 
in eastern Arizona. Besides completely revising the text of this re- 
port, 15 additional plans and diagrams were drawn to augment those 
already prepared. This manuscript was turned over to the editor and 
is to appear as Bulletin 121 of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 
With the permission of the Chief of the Bureau and the Secretary 
of the Smithsonian Institution, several short manuscripts were pre- 
pared for publication in anthropological journals and other profes- 
sional papers. 

Dr. Roberts left Washington on June 7, 1938, for Fort Collins, 
Colo., and again resumed excavations at the Lindenmeier Site. At 
the close of the fiscal year the diggings had been reopened and a num- 
ber of specimens obtained. These included several pieces of bone that 
bear evidence of attempts at engraving designs on them and give 
some indications of a certain amount of artistic effort on the part of 
Folsom men. 

Dr. J. H. Steward, ethnologist, remained in Washington during 
the greater part of the fiscal year and completed his final report 
on the tribes of the Great Basin-Plateau area. This was submitted 
to the editor and will appear as Bulletin 120 of the Bureau. In 
anticij)ation of an extended expedition to South America, Dr. Stew- 
ard spent considerable time in making preparations for his projected 
ethnological studies in the western part of South America. On April 
20 he left Washington for Ecuador in order to begin this work. The 
end of the fiscal year found him still in Ecuador working among the 
liigliland Indians. 

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS 

The editing of the publications of the Bureau was continued 
through the year by Stanley Searles, editor. 

BTJIXETINS ISSUED DURING THE YEAR 

115. Journal of Rudolph Friederich Kurz, edited by J. N. B. Hewitt. 

116. Ancieut Caves of the Great Salt Lake Region, by Julian H. Steward. 

117. Historical and Ethnographical Material on the Jivaro Indians, by M. 
W. Stirling. 



54 ANNUAL EEPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

EELEA8ED FOB PUBLICATION 

118. An Archaeological Survey of the Norris Basin in Eastern Tennessee, by 
Maj. William S. Webb. 

The index of Schoolcraft's Indian Tribes has been ahnost com- 
pleted. 

Work has been done on other manuscripts in the custody of the 
editor. 

Publications distributed totaled 16,569. 

LIBRART 

There has been no change in the library staff. Accessions during 
the fiscal year totaled 395. 

Eight new exchanges were added during the year, three of these 
being large, important sets, one domestic and two foreign. 

Library of Congress cards have been obtained for practically all 
of the new material received as well as for some older items. Analyti- 
cal entries have been made for all periodical items in the Bureau's 
field received since April 1936. The depository set of Library of 
Congress catalog cards is now installed in working order and has 
proved to be a great help to the staff as well as to those in the library. 

The librarian attended the meetings of the Inter-American Bib- 
liographical and Historical Association in February 1938, and made 
arrangements to exchange cards for South and Central American 
Indian languages and folk-lore entries with Dr. Boggs, of the Uni- 
versity of North Carolina. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

Following is a summary of work accomplished by E. G. Cassedy, 
illustrator : 

Line drawings 175 

Maps 25 

Pliotos retouched 28 

Lettering jobs 96 

Plates assembled 213 

Drawings, etc., prepared for engraver 415 

Diagrams and charts 7 

Graphs 6 

Mechanical drawings 4 

Wash drawings 1 

Total 970 

Accession COLLECTIONS 

No. 

144,343. One earthenware water jar from the pueblo of Acoma, and one deco- 
rated basket made by the Aleuts of southwestern Alaska. (2 
specimens. ) 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55 

Accession 
No. 

146,287. Three figurine pottery fragments and three figurine pottery heads 
from a railway cut near the Aguan liiver, Maloa District, north- 
east Honduras, Central America. Purchased from J. R. Allsopp. 
(6 specimens.) 

146,639. Potsherds, arrowiwints, shell bead, and fragment of worked shell from 
Liberty and Dade Counties, Fla. Collected by M. W. Stirling. (6 
specimens. ) 

148,063. Earthenware vessels and fragments from Ulua River, Comayagua 
River, and Lake Yojoa regions of Honduras, collected in 1936 by 
Smithsonian-Harvard University Expedition under Dr. W. D. Strong. 
(93 specimens.) 

MISCELLANEOUS 

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem- 
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning 
the North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mex- 
ican peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various 
specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them fur- 
nished for their owners. 

Personnel. — Dr. W. D. Strong, anthropologist, resigned August 
31, 1937. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, died October 14, 1937. 

Respectfully submitted. 

M. W. Stirling, GJiief. 

Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 6 

KEPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE 
SERVICE 

Sir: I beg to submit the following report on the activities of the 
International Exchange Service during the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1938: 

The amount granted by Congress for that year was $44,260, the 
Same as appropriated for 1937. The collections from repayments 
were $3,577.12, making the total resources available $47,837.12. 

The number of packages handled was 719,121, a gain of 61,775. 
The weight was 656,119 pounds, an increase of 4,658 pounds. 

The number and weight of packages sent and received through 
the Exchange Service is given below : 





Packages 


Weight 




Sent 


Received 


Sent 


Received 


United States parliamentary documents sent abroad 


363,823 




Pounds 
135, 064 


Poundt 


Publications received in return for parliamentary documents... 


9,607 


26,711 


United States departmental documents sent abroad 


123, 182 


122, 300 




Publications received in return for departmental documents . 


10, 231 


33, 637 




164, 730 


225,006 




Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from 
abroad for distribution in the United States 


67,648 


113, 501 










Total 


641. 735 


77, 386 


482, 370 


173, 749 






Grand total . 


719,121 


656,119 













There were shipped abroad 2,639 boxes, an increase of 19 over the 
preceding year. Of these boxes, 538 were for depositories of full 
sets of United States governmental documents, and the remainder 
(2,101) were for distribution to miscellaneous establishments and 
individuals. There were transmitted by mail 111,475 packages, an 
increase over last year of 24,179. 

For a number of years the government franking privilege has been 
in existence between the United States and Canada, Cuba, Mexico, 
Newfoundland, and Panama, and exchange packages for these coun- 
tries, therefore, have been sent direct to their destinations by mail 
and not through the exchange bureaus in the respective countries. 
In recent months this privilege has been extended. The complete 
list of the countries with which this privilege is now in effect is as 

67 



58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

follows: Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Kica, Cuba, Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Newfound- 
land (including Labrador), Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, 
Salvador, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 

Shipments of exchanges to Spain, owing to the disturbed political 
conditions in that country, have been suspended since August 1936. 

Owing to the war in China, consignments to that country were 
suspended in August 1937. The Chinese Bureau of International 
Exchange, having moved its office from Nanking to Chungking, re- 
quested the Institution to forward shipments to its new address, and 
at the close of the year a large consignment was being prepared for 
transmission to that bureau. 

Packages for the National Library of Peiping, the Engineering 
Reference Library, Nanking, and the Library Association of China, 
instead of being included with the regular consignments to the new 
address of the Chinese Exchange Bureau, are being forwarded to 
Hong Kong in care of the Fung Ping Shan Chinese Library, at the 
request of Dr. T. L. Yuan, who is officially connected with those 
organizations. 

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS 

There are forwarded to foreign depositories 111 sets of United 
States official publications, 61 being full sets and 50, partial sets. 
The depository of the full set sent to Chile has been changed from 
Biblioteca del Congreso to Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago; the de- 
pository in Mexico, from Biblioteca Nacional to Departamento Auto- 
nomo de Publicidad y Propaganda, Mexico; and the depository in 
the Soviet Republic, from State Central Book Chamber to AU-Union 
Lenin Library, Moscow. 

DEPOSITORIKS OF FUU. SETS 

Argentina : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires. 

Buenos Aires: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La 
Plata. (Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.) 
Australia: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

South Australia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide. 

Tasmania : Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, INIelbourne. 

V/estern Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
Belgium : Biblioth^que Royale, Bruxelles. 
Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 
Canada : Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 

Ontario : Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Quebec : Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec. 
Chile: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59 

China: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Ertucatiou, Chungking. 

Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogobt. 

Costa Rica : Oficina de Deposito y Cauje Internacional de Publicaciones, San 

Jos6. 
Cuba: Secretaria de Estado, DirecciSn de Relaciones Culturales, Habana. 
Czechoslovakia: Bibliothfeque de I'Assembl^e Nationale, Prague. 
Denmark : Kongclige Bibliotheliet, Copenhagen. 
Egypt : Bureau des Publications, Ministere des Finances, Cairo. 
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn. 
Fbance: Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris. 

Gegmany : Keichstauschstelle im Reichsmiuisterium f iir Wissenschaf t, Ergiehung 
und Volksbildung, Berlin, N. W. 7. 

Austkia: National Bibliothek, Wien, I. 

Baden: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of 
Baden.) 

Bavaria : Bayerische Staatsbibliotbek, Miinchen. 

Prussia : Preussische Staatsbibliotbek, Berlin, N. W. 7. 

Saxont: Siichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden — N. 6. 

Wltrtembueg : Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart. 
Great Britain : 

England : British Museum, London. 

Glasgow : City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow. 

London : London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository 
of the liondon County Council.) 
Hungary: A Magyar orszaggyiiles koTiyvtanl, Budapest. 
India : Imperial Library, Calcutta. 
Ireland : National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 
Italy : Ministero dell'Educazicne Nazionale, Rome. 
Japan : Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo. 
Latvia : Bibliotheque d'liltat, Riga. 

League of Nations : Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Mexico: Departamento Autonomo de Pren.sa y Publicidad, Mexico, D. F. 
Netherlands : Royal Library, The Hague. 
New ZtULAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
NouTHEKN Ireland: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast. 
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of 

Norway. ) 
Peru : SecciOn de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones 

Exteriores, Lima. 
Poland: Biblioth6que Nationale, "Warsaw. 
Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon. 
Rumania : Academia RomRna, Bucharest. 
Spain : Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos 

20, Madrid. Shipments suspended since August 1936. 
Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 
Switzerland: Bililiotheque Centrale F6d§rale, Berne. 
Turkey: Ministere de I'lnstruction Publique, Ankara. 
Union of South Africa: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : All-Uuion Lenin Library, Moscow 115. 

Ukraine: All-Ukrainian Association for Cultural Relations with Foreign 
Countries, Kiev. 
Uruguay : Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 
A'^enezu'ela : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 
Yugoslavia: Ministere de I'lilducation, Belgrade. 



60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

DEPOSITORIES OF PAIiTIAI, SETTS 

Afghanistan : Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Publications Department, Kabul. 
BoLTPiA : Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz. 
Beazll : 

MiNAs Geraes : Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte. 

Rio DE Janeiro : Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy. 
British Guiana : Government Secretary's Office, Georgetown, Demerara. 
BxjLGABiA : Ministere des Affaires ^fitrangeres, Sofia. 
Canada : 

Alberta: Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

British Columbia: Provincial Library, Victoria. 

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton. 

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 

Prince Edward Island : Legislative Library, Charlottetown. 

Saskatchewan : Legislative Library, Regina. 
Ceylon: Chief Secretary's Office (Record Department of the Library), Colombo. 
China : National Library of Peiping, % Fung Ping Shan Chinese Library, Hong 

Kong. 
Danzig: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig. 

Dominican Republic: Biblioteca del Senado, Ciudad Trujillo. 
Ecuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 
Finland: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors. 
Germany : 

Bremen : Staatsbibliothek, 

Hamburg : Staats-und Universitiits-Bibliothek. 

Hesse: Universitats-Bibliothek, Giessen. 

Lubeck: President of the Senate. 

Thuringia: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesunivevsitat, Jena. 

Vienna : Magistrat der Stadt Wien, Abteilung 51-Statistik. 
Greece: Library of Parliament, Athens. 
Guatemala: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala. 

Haiti: Secretaire d'Etat des Relations Ext^rieures, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : Biblioteca y Archive Nacionales, Tegucigalpa. 
Iceland: National Library, Reykjavik. 
India : 

Assam : General and Judicial Department, Shillong. 

Bengal: Secretary, Bengal Legislative Council Department, Council House, 
Calcutta. 

Bihar and Orissa: Revenue Department, Patna. 

Bombay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart- 
ment, Bombay. 

Burma: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department, 
Rangoon. 

Central Provinces : General Administration Department, Nagpur. 

Madras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Depart- 
ment, Madras. 

Punjab : Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore. 

United Provinces of Agra and Oudh : University of Allahabad, Allahabad. 
Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 
Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia. 

Lithuania: Ministere des Affaires li!trang&res, Kaunas (Kovno). 
Malta : Minister for the Treasury, Valletta. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61 

Newfoundland : Department of Home Affairs, St. John's. 
Nioaeagua: Superintendente de Arclaivos Nacionales, Managua. 
Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama. 
Paraguay: Secretario de la Presidencia de la Reptiblica, Asunci6n. 
Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 
Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok. 
Straits Settlements: Colonial Secretary, Singapore. 
Vatican City : Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy. 

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAI. JOURNAL 

The total number of copies of the Congressional Eecord and Fed- 
eral Register sent to foreign depositories has been reduced to 104, the 
copies sent to the Governor of Latakia having been discontinued. 
Several changes have been made in the establishments to which those 
documents are sent. A list of the depositories now receiving those 
documents is given below : 

depositories of congressional record 

Albania : Ministrija Mbretnore e Punevete Jaslitme, Tirana. 
Argentina : 

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires. 

C^mara de Diputados, Oficina de Informaci6n Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires. 

Boletin Oficial de la Repfiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justicia e Instruc- 
ci6n Ptiblica, Buenos Aires. 
Australia : 

Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra. 

New South Wau;s : Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Chief Secretary's Office, Brisbane. 

Western Australia: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth. 
Belgium : Bibliotheque de la Chambre des Repr^sentants, Bruxelles. 
Bolivia: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz. 
Brazil: 

Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 

Amazonas: Archive, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, ManS^os. 

Bahia: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador. 

Espirito Santo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria. 

Rio Grande do Sul : "A Federagao," Porto Alegre. 

Sergipb: Bibliotheca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracajti. 

Sao Paulo: Diario Official do Estado de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo. 
British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize. 
Canada : 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Olerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa. 
China: National Central Library, Nanking. 
Cuba: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana. 

Czechoslovakia: Bibliotheque de I'AssembMe Nationale, Prague. 
Denmark: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen. 
Egypt: 

Chambre des D^put^s, Cairo. 

S4nat, Cairo. 



62 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

Fbance : 

Chambre des D^put^s, Service de I'luformation Parlementaire ^fitrangfere, 

Paris. 
Bibliothfeque du Stoat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris. 
Bureau de Documentation Gtoerale, Ministfere des Finances, Paris I. 

Bibliotheque, Direction des Accords commerciaux, Minist^re du Commerce, 
Paris. 
Gebmant : 

Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin N. W. 7. 

Reichsfinanzministerium, Berlin, W. 8. 

Anhalt: Anhaltische Landesbiiclierei, Dessau. 

Austria : Bibliotbek im Parlameuts, Wien, I. 

Beaunschweig : Bibliothelc des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums, 
Braunschweig. 

Meckxenbueg : Staatsministerium, Schwerin. 

OuDENBXJBG : Oldeuburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg 1. O. 

ScHAUMBuT.G-LipPE : Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg. 
Gibraltab: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar. 
Great Beitain : Library of the Foreign Office, London. 
Greece: Library of Parliament, Athens. 

Guatemala : Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala. 
Honduras : Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
Hungary: A Magyar orsz^ggyiiles konyvtarS, Budapest. 
India : Legislative Department, Simla. 
Indochina: Gouveneur G6n6ral de I'lndochine, Hanoi. 
Iran: Library of the Iranian Parliament, T6h6ran. 
Iraq : Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad. 
Irish Free State: Dail Eireann, Dublin. 
Italy : 

Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome. 

Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Rome. 

Ufficio degli Studi Legislativi, Senato del Regno, Rome. 
Latvia: Valsts Biblioteka, Riga. 

IjEague of Nations : Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Lebanon: Ministgre des Finances de la Republique Libanaise, Service du Ma- 

t(5riel, Beirut. 
Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia. 
Mexico: Departamento Autonomo de Prensa y Publicidad, Mexico, D. F. 

Aguascalientes : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes. 

Campeche: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeehe. 

Chiapas : Gobernador del Estado do Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez. 

Chihuahua: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua. 

Coahuua: Peri6dico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno, 
Saltillo. 

Colima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima. 

DuBANGo: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango. 

Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato. 

GuEEKEEO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo. 

Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara. 

Lower California : Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C, Mexico. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63 

Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico. 

MichoacAn : Secretarla General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoac^, 

Morelia. 
MORELOS : Palaeio de Gobierno, Cueruavaca. 
Nataeit : Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic. 
NuEvo Leon : Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey. 
Oaxaca : Peri6dico Oficial, Palaeio de Gobierno, Oaxaca. 
Puebla: Secretarla General de Gobierno, Pnebla. 

QuEBETAEo: Secrctarla general de Gobierno, SeceiOu de Arcliivo, Queretaro. 
San Luis Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi. 
Sinaloa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Cullacan. 
SoNOKA : Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo. 
Tabasco: Sccretaria General de Gobierno, Secci6n 3a, Ramo de Prensa, 

Villahermosa. 
Tamaulipas: Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Victoria. 
Tlaxcala: Secretarfa de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala. 
Veracruz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober- 

naci6n y Justicia, Jalapa. 
Yucatan : Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, M^rida, Yucatan. 
Netherlands Indies : Volksraad von Nederlandsch-Indio, Batavia, Java. 
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway : Storthingets Bibliothek, Oslo. 
Peru: Cfimara de Diputados, Lima. 
Poland: Bibljoteka Narodowa, Warsaw. 
Portugal: Secretario da Assemblea Nacional, Lisboa. 
Rumania : 

Bibliothgque de la Chambre des Deputes, Bucharest. 
Ministfere des Affaires Etrangeres, Bucharest. 
Spain : 

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Madrid. 

Catalunya : Biblioteca del Parlament de Catalunya, Barcelona. 
SwiTzEKLAND : Bibliotheque de I'Assemblee F^derale Suisse, Berne. 
Bern: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Bern. 
St. Gallen : Staatskanzlei des Kantons St. Gallen. 
Schalifhauseu : Staatskanzlei des Kantons Schaffhausen. 
Ziirich : Staatskanzlei des Kantons Zurich. 
Turkey: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Ankara. 
Union of South Africa : 

Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope. 
State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Uruguay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo. 
Venezuela : Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas. 
Vatican City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy. 

foreign exchange) agencies 

Algeria, via France. 

Angola, via Portugal. 

Argentina : Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Canje Internacional. 

Calle Callao 1540, Buenos Aires. 
Austria: Internationale Austausclistelle, National-Bibliothek, Wien, I. 
AzoBES, via Portugal. 
Belgium : Service Beige des ^changes Internationaux, Bibliothfeque Royale de 

Belgique, Bruxelles. 



64 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Bolivia : Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz. 

Bkazil: Servigo de Permutagoes Internacionaes, Bibliotbeca Nacional, Rio de 

Janeiro. 
British Guiana : Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown. 
British Hondubas : Colonial Secretary, Belize. 
Bulgaria: Sent by mail. 
Canada : Sent by mail. 
Canaby Islands, via Spain. 
Chile: Sent by mail. 

China: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking. 
Colombia: Sent by mail. 
CosTA Rica: Sent by mail. 
Cuba: Sent by mail. 
Czechoslovakia : Service Tch&coslovaque des iSchanges Internationaux, Biblio- 

thfeque de I'Assembl^e Nationale, Prague 1-79. 
Danzig: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt 

Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig. 
Denmark: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske 

Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V. 
Dominican Republic: Sent by mail. 
Ecuador : Sent by mail. 

Egtpt : Government Press, Publications OflBce, Bulaq, Cairo. 
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn. 
Finland: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasarngatan 24, 

Helsingfors. 
France: Service Frangais des ^changes Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle, 

Paris. 
GiatMANY : Amerika-Institut, Universitatstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7. 
Great Britain and Ireland : Wheldon & Wesley, 2-4 Earnshaw St., New Oxford 

St., London, W. C. 2. 
Greece: Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens. 
Greenland, via Denmark. 
Guatemala : Sent by mail. 
Haiti: Sent by mail. 
Honduras : Sent by mail. 

Hungary : Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV. 
Iceland, via Denmark. 

India : Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay. 
Italy : UflBcio degli Scambi Internazionali, Miuistero dell' Educazione Nazionale, 

Rome. 
Jamaica : Institute of Jamaica, Kingston. 
Japan : Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park, Tokyo. 
Java, via Netherlands. 
Latvia: Service des ^changes Internationaux, Bibloth&que d'Etat de Lettonie, 

Riga. 
Liberia : Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia. 
Lithuania: Sent by mail. 
LouEENCo Mabquez, via Portugal. 
Luxembourg, via Belgium. 
Madagascar, via France. 
Madeira, via Portugal. 
Mexico: Sent by mail. 
Mozambique, via Portugal. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65 

Netheblands : International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Library, 
The Hague. 

Newfoundland and Labeadok : Sent by mail. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Nicaragua : Sent by maU. 

Noeway: Service Norv^gien des ;fichanges Interuationaux, Bibliotheque de 
rUniversit6 Royale, Oslo. 

Palestine: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem. 

Panama: Sent by mail. 

Pakaguay: Sent by mail. 

Pebu: Sent by mail. 

Poland: Service Polonais des ^changes Internationaux, Bibliotheque Nationale, 
Warsaw. 

Poetugal: Secgao de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisboa. 

Queensland: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre- 
tary's OflSce, Brisbane. 

Rumania: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut M6t^orologique 
Central, Bucharest. 

Salvador: Sent by mail. 

SiAM : Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok. 

South Australia: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern- 
ment Printing and Stationery OflBce, Adelaide. 

Spain : Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos 
20, bajo derecha, Madrid. Shipments suspended since August 1936. 

Sumatra: via Netherlands. 

Surinam: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo. 

Sweden : Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 

Switzerland: Service Suisse des ifiehanges Internationaux, Bibliothfeque Cen- 
trale F^d^rale, Berne. 

Syria : Sent by mail. 

Tasmania: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart. 

Trinidad: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain. 

Tunis : via France. 

Turkey: Robert College, Istanbul. 

Union of South Africa : Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape 
Town, Cape of Good Hope. 

Union op Soviet Socialist Republics: Library of the Academy of Sciences of 
the U. S. S. R., Exchange Service, Leningrad, V. O. 

Uruguay: Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Miuisterio de Relaciones Exte- 
riores, Montevideo. 

Venezuela: Sent by mail. 

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 

Yugoslavia: Section des ]fichanges Internationaux, Minist^re des Affaires 
Strangeres, Belgrade. 

Respectfully submitted. 

C. W. Shoemaker, Chief Clerk. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 7 
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PxVRK 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper- 
ations of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1938. 

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance 
of the Park v;as $225,000, all of which was expended. 

IMPRO\TEMENTS 

The stone large-mammal house, which had been completed in the 
previous fiscal year, was stocked with animals during August and 
September 1937, and was opened to the public October 13, 1937, 
at the same time the giraffes, tapirs, African buffaloes, and 
gaurs that had been obtained on the National Geographic-Smith- 
sonian Expedition were moved into it. This building was described 
and pictured in the last annual report. 

W. P. A. work ceased on January 27, 1937, and was not resumed 
until September 1937. From this date until the close of the fiscal 
year W. P. A. workers were engaged mainly in cutting down the 
hill between the new large-mammal house and the refreshment stand, 
and in the construction of a stone retaining wall around the base 
of the hill. This work had not been completed at the close of the 
fiscal year. In addition, they demolished the octagonal elephant 
house — the first building ever constructed in the Zoo — which had 
been vacated when the elephants were moved to the new large-mam- 
mal house, and they also demolished the brick elephant house in 
accordance with the plans developed when the small-mammal house 
was placed immediately adjacent to it. The area occupied by these 
two buildings and the vicinity thereof was partially graded prepara- 
tory to the placing thereon of other small exhibits and the providing 
of pleasing open spaces. A small amount of work was accomplished 
in connection with other minor grounds improvement, tree surgery, 
and miscellaneous improvements. 

Moving into the new quarters in the large-mammal house meant 
several days of big jobs. A contract was entered into with a concern 
equipped for moving large, heavy objects, and from September 1 to 
September 22, as the African and Sumatran elephants, the hippo- 

67 

114728—39 6 



68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

potamuses, and rhinoceros could be induced to enter large substantial 
crates, they were moved from their old quarters into the new, large- 
mammal house. Almost a full day was required for each animal 
moved, and in some cases the gates of the Park were closed so that 
visitors would not be in the way and would not be jeopardized should 
an accident occur. Every possible precaution had been taken to 
insure the successful accomplishment of the moves, and there was no 
unhappy incident. The suggestion had been frequently made that 
the elephants might be walked up to the building, but they had not 
been accustomed to discipline outside of their yards, and it was 
deemed inadvisable to do this. The crate used to move the elephants 
was 10 feet 10 inches high, 7 feet 4 inches wide, and 18 feet long, 
overall, and weighed 5^ tons. Other smaller animals, such as the 
tapirs and pigmy hippopotamuses, were moved by the Park force. 

THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY — SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION EXPE- 
DITION TO THE EAST INDIES 

As was recorded in the previous annual report, this expedition left 
Washington in two sections. On January 19, 1937, Dr. Mann, direc- 
tor of the Park, Mrs. Mann, and Dr. Maynard Owen Williams, chief 
of the foreign editorial staff of the National Geographic Magazine, 
sailed from Vancouver, B. C, for the Orient. Making various stops 
en route, and visiting zoos in Japan, China, and Malaya, they finally 
reached Pematang Siantar, in Sumatra, where the base camp was 
established. On February 9, Koy Jennier, assistant head keeper, and 
Malcolm Davis, keeper of the National Zoological Park, left Wash- 
ington with 28 American animals and, sailing by way of Cape of 
Good Hope, arrived at the Sumatra base camp on March 22. 

Wliile the headquarters had been near the north end of the Island 
of Sumatra, the animals were assembled from widely scattered points 
in the southern Asiatic and Malayan region. Dr. and Mrs. Mami had 
made trips to Siam, Johore, Singapore, Java, Celebes, and the Mo- 
luccas, and had arranged with numerous parties to assist in the col- 
lection of specimens. Noteworthy help was obtained from J. A. 
Coenraad, director of the zoo at Siantar; J. M. Lynkamp, manager 
of the Naga Hoeta Tea Estate, in Sumatra; and A. Baron Van 
Styrum, of the Deli Railroad. The giraffes and African buffaloes 
were loaded at Port Sudan, in accordance with arrangements that 
had been made with the game warden of the Kliartoum Government, 
Egyptian Sudan. 

His Highness, the Crown Prince of Johore, presented the expedi- 
tion with a pair of black leopards and a fine Beimett's cassowary. 
From the Zoo at Fort de Kock, through C. Grootes, and from the Zoo 
at Batavia, through J. M. N. A. Niemans, were received a number of 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69 

valuable specimens. W. L. Basapa, of Singapore, presented a Baska 
turtle, and Dr. Harold Coolidge of the Harvard Primate Expedition, 
a pair of Himalayan bears. 

This expedition was financed by the National Geographic Society, 
and the results to the Zoo were highly gratifying. On its return 
all members of the party except Dr. Williams arrived in New York 
September 27, 1937, where the shipment of 193 crates of animals was 
divided. Seventeen hoofed animals were placed in quarantine in 
the Bureau of Animal Industry's station at Athenia, N. J., and the 
remaining animals were brought to Washington by express. They 
were sorted at the express car and loaded into trucks destined to 
the respective buildings in the Zoo, and by noon of September 28 
a large proportion of them were in their new quarters, taking baths, 
grooming themselves, and otherwise getting ready to receive visitors 
who were already arriving. 

After the animals were finally counted and identified, it was found 
that the expedition had brought in the following: 

Summary of animals brought tach ty the 'National Oeographic Society — 
Smithsonian Institution East Indies Expedition, 1937 

Individ- 
Class Species uals 

Mammals 46 121 

Birds 93 649 

Reptiles and amphibians 30 109 

Total - 169 879 

The collection included numerous species never before exhibited 
in the Zoo, and other species that had been badly needed. Among 
them were Asiatic tapirs, both species of orang-utans, a pair of gaur, 
16 birds of paradise of 4 different species, and a great many other 
desirable birds. In the reptile collection were four species of cobras, 
including two fine specimens of Hamadryads. 

NEEDS OF THE ZOO 

In the previous annual report under this topic, the following 
appeared : 

The old frame shelter now housing the restaurant and concession stand 
is badly deteriorated and entirely inadequate to accommodate the large vol- 
ume of business that has developed with the increasing attendance at the Zoo. 

Construction of a suitable building would be a self-liquidating 
undertaking, as the annual revenue derived from the restaurant con- 
cession has been $6,012 per annum for the three years prior to July 
1937, and for the following three years will be $9,012 per annum. 
This money is deposited in the United States Treasury to the credit of 
the General Fund, District of Columbia, and not available to the Zoo. 



70 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



VISITORS FOR THE YEAR 



There were substantial increases in the attendance for the year, 
both in individuals and in groups. 



February 165, 100 

March 200, 000 

April 313, 100 

May 359, 700 

June 225, 500 



July 313, 700 

August 227, 000 

September 280, 400 

October 408, 300 

November 289, 500 

December 123, 050 

January 132, 300 Total 3,127, 650 

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of 
which there is definite record, was 70,371 from 1,374 different schools 
in 23 States and the District of Columbia, as follows: 



State 



Alabama 

Connecticut 

Delaware. 

District of Columbia 

Florida 

Georgia 

Indiana-- 

Kentucky 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Missouri-. 



Number 


Number 


of 


of 


persons 


parties 


20 


1 


379 


10 


772 


16 


14, 554 


306 


107 


1 


991 


25 


30 


1 


25 


1 


134 


3 


11, 866 


195 


382 


8 


402 


8 


256 


6 



State 



New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina.. 

Ohio 

Pennsylvania 

Rhode Island 

South Carolina- 
Tennessee.- 

Virginia 

West Virginia... 

Total 



Number 

of 
persons 



72 

5,768 

3,252 

2,507 

1,813 

15, 408 

75 

609 

202 

9,695 

1,052 



70, 371 



Nxmiber 

of 
parties 



38 

73 

61 

308 

2 

18 

6 

209 

22 



1,374 



About 3 o'clock every afternoon, except Sundays and holidays, a 
census is made of the cars parked on the Zoo grounds. During the 
year, 31,159 were so listed, representing every State in the Union, 
Canada, Mexico, Canal Zone, Alaska, Cuba, Panama, Hawaii, and 
Puerto Rico. Since the total number is merely a record of those 
actually parked at one time, it is not of value as indicating a total 
attendance but is of importance as showing the percentage attendance 
by States, Territories, and countries. The District of Columbia com- 
prised slightly over 51 percent; Maryland, 19 percent; Virginia, 11 
percent; and the remaining cars were from other States, Territories, 
and countries. During years in which counts have been made on 
Sunday as well as during the week it has been found that the per- 
centage of cars from the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Vir- 
ginia is less, and the percentage of the more distant States is corre- 
spondingly increased. This is brought about by tourists coming to 
the Zoo on Sundays when other points of interest are closed to them. 



ACCESSIONS 



Gifts. — A number of specimens were received as gifts during the 
year. Among the most interesting additions were two East African 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7l 

hedgehogs from President Franklin D. Eoosevelt ; a Chapman's zebra 
from Mrs. Robert C. Winmill, Warrenton, Va.; a pair of dingos, one 
South African spitting cobra, one golden cobra, and one puff adder 
from the New York Zoological Park. From the Firestone Rubber 
Plantations, Liberia, through George Siebold, manager, were received 
a chimpanzee and a young leopard. The Florida Boy Scout con- 
tingent attending the jamboree in the city presented a collection of 
33 reptiles from their State. 

The field representatives of the United States Biological Survey 
continued their generosity in the form of various gifts, most unportant 
of which were two bison (one an albino) from the National Bison 
Range, Moiese, Mont. ; three California murres, and one tufted puffin, 
through O. J. Murie, Seattle, Wash. 

DONOK8 AND THEIB GIFTS 

Miss Nelda Acker, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Paul Akers, East Radford, Va., hog-uosed snake, fence lizard, 2 salamanders. 

S. S. Alderman, Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

H. A. AJlard, Arlington, Va., raccoon. 

Mrs. Archambault, Washington, D. C, great horned owl. 

L. M. Ashley, Takoma Park, Md., American egret. 

Atherton's Bird Store, Washington^ D. C, Patas monkey. 

Miss Selden Babcock, Washington, D. C, weasel. 

Miss Amy Bailey, Washington, D. C, sparrow hawk. 

B. D. Bailey, Wilson, N. C, bam owl. 

S. M. Baker, Tomsbrook, Va., common crow. 

A. T. Baldwin, Benning, D. C, double yellow-head parrot. 

Baltimore Humane Society, Baltimore, Md., white-throated capuchiu, sulphur- 
crested cockatoo. 

Dr. Thomas Barbour, Cambridge, Mass., rhinoceros iguana, soft-shelled turtle, 
chicken tortoise. 

G. Barksdale, Washington, D. C, silver pheasant. 

Dr. II. S. Bassler, Washington, D. C, homed lizard. 

J. H. Batt, Washington, D. C, opossum. 

T. M. Battle, Washington, D. C, brown capuchin. 

Bakai Baysoy, Washington, D. C, grass paroquet. 

Miss Helen Beal, Washington, D. C, 2 ducks. 

Philip M. Blossom, Ann Arbor, Mich., 6 gnome or kangaroo mice, desert kan- 
garoo rat, bushy tailed woodrat. 

C. F. Borden, Washington, D. C, 4 pigeons. 

Boulder Dam Recreational Area, Boulder City, Nev., 2 chuckwallas, collared 

lizard. 
Boy Scout Contingent, Florida, 2 Florida box turtles, gopher tortoise, pigmy 

rattlesnake, diamond-back rattlesnake, 2 water moccasins, 2 water snakes, 

chicken snake, corn snake, 2 garter snakes, 2 coachwhip snakes, horn snake, 

indigo snake, black snake, Florida king snake. 
Mrs. M. Bradburn, Washington, D. C, vervet guenon. 
Bradford Armstrong Farm, Wheaton, Md., 6 mallards. 



72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Brookgreen Gardens, through P. L. Hovey, Georgetown, S. C, 6 southern fox 

squirrels. 
Edward Brooks, Washington, D. C, opossum. 

F. Charles Brown, Washington, D. C, barred owl. 
Mrs. J. W. Brown, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

B. J. Buck, Washington, D. C, black mallard. 

G. R. Campbell, Lake Worth, Fla., coral snake, 2 rough-scaled green snakes, 
hog-nosed snake, yellow-lipped snake. 

Wm. H. Carrico, Washington, D. C, mud puppy, common newt 

Martin Carter, York Harbor, Me., coatimundi. 

H. L. Cassiday, Richmond, Va., red-shouldered hawk. 

Miss Edith Chinn, Chevy Chase, Md., black widow spider. 

Miss Nellie L. Condon, New York City, hog-nosed snake. 

Miss Isabelle Cooke, Washington, D. C, tarantula. 

R. T. Cox, Washington, D. C, Javan macaque. 

G. L. Crawford, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, rock iguana. 

Ralph Crone, Washington, D. C, barn owl. 

L. B. Cross, Washington, D. C, raccoon. 

Culver Summer School, through Capt. S. R. Esten and Adm. Hugh Rodman, 

Culver, Ind., snapping turtle, box turtle, 7 geographic turtles, 16 painted 

turtles, 3 musk turtles, Cumberland turtle, spotted turtle, 4 chicken turtles, 

soft-shelled turtle, Blanding's turtle. 
John M. Davis, Arlington, Va., 2 black raccoons. 
Charles F. Denley, Glenmont, Md., Siamese crested fire-back pheasant, cheer 

pheasant, Soemmerring's copper pheasant. 
G. L. Dowden, San Gabriel, Calif., western bullsnake. 
Herbert Eaton, Chevy Chase, Md., 3 opossums. 
W. D. Eliot, Washington, D. C, Florida gallinule. 
Eugene Person, Washington, D. C, 2 common iguanas. 
Firestone Rubber Plantations, through George Seibold, Monrovia, Liberia. 

African leopard, chimpanzee. 
Mr. and Mrs. O. O. Fisher, Brentwood, Md., 2 cardinals. 
A. T. Ford, Washington, D. C, red fox. 

M. B. Foster, Orlando, Fla., worm snake, yellow-lipped snake, 
Marty Gallagher, Washington, D. C, raccoon. 
Arthur Garden, Washington. D. C, woodchuck or groundhog. 
Joseph Gatti, Washington, D. C, blue jay. 
Mr. Gaw, Washington, D. C, great white heron. 
Miss Virginia Glass, Spring Lake, N. J., barred owl. 

C. S, Goetz, Washington, D. C, yellow-naped parrot. 

L. W. Gordon, Washington, D. C, 2 woodchucks or groundhogs. 

Clarence L. Green, Cortland, N. Y., 4 garter snakes. 

Gude Brothers, Florists, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Miss Mary Hamilton, Washington, D. C, grass paroquet. 

H. H. Harland, Washington, D. C, sparrow hawk. 

Louis A. Harris, Takoma Park, Md., albino squirrel. 

Mrs. A. Hayden, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Charles Henderson, Concord, Mass., raccoon. 

G. B. Howard, Washington, D. C, snapping tiirtle. 

Mrs. W. W. Hughes, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

H. N. Hunter, Washington, D. C, flying squirrel. 

Laine Ilgenfritz, Washington, D. C, alligator. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73 

Mrs. Ingham, Arlington, Va., kinkajou. 

H. W. Irwin, Arlington, Va., white-throated capuchin. 

W. T, Jewell, Arlington, Va., 4 skunks. 

Ellis S. Joseph, New York City, 6 long-tailed finches. 

W. A. Kearney, Washington, D. C, red fox. 

Olive Kinsman, Silver Spring, Md., 5 skunks. 

Mrs. F, C. Kleindeinst, Washington, D. C, rabbit, guinea pig. 

Albert Koontz, Washington, D. C, black widow spider. 

Mrs. J. R. Kump, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

John Landrum, East Kadford, Va., black mallard. 

David Lawson, Washington, D. C, nighthawk. 

Otto M. Locke, New Braunfels, Tex., 50 horned lizards, 10 scaly lizards. 

C. E. Loomis, Washington, D. C, yellow-naped parrot. 

Joseph N. Lowe, Washington, D. C, 4 skunks. 

Richard Lowe, Chevy Chase, Md., ferret. 

P. D. Lowell, Chevy Chase, Md., 3 barn owls. 

Carl Lutz, Washington, D. C, sparrow hawk. 

Howard Maben, Washington, D. C, coyote. 

Charles T. Malone, Somerset, Md., 3 flying squirrels, 

L. R. Mark, Washington, D. C, rhesus monkey. 

Raymond Martin, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Mrs. Marx, Washington, D. C, small bird. 

J. McDonald, Washington, D. C, Brazilian cardinal. 

Mrs. O. McNey, Bethesda, Md., 2 guinea pigs. 

George P. Meade, Gramercy, La., copperhead snake, DeKay's snake, smooth- 
scaled green snake, rough-scaled green snake, 3 Holbrook's king snakes, 3 hog- 
nosed snakes, 2 water snakes. 

Bob Morgan, Miami, Fla., 2 alligators. 

E. T. Morrison, Hanover, Va., gray fox. 

Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, through Dr. Joseph Grinnell, D. H. Johnson, 
and Dale Arvey, Berkeley, Calif., 2 Great Basin pocket mice, Nevada pocket 
mouse, kangaroo pocket mouse, 2 sagebrush chipmunks. 

Miss Mildred Myers, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Miss Gladys Necker, Suitland, Md., white-throated capuchin. 

Mr. Nees, Riverdale, Md., red fox. 

New York Zoological Park, New York City, 2 dingos. South African spitting 
cobra, golden cobra, puff adder. 

Col. Newbold Noyes, Washington, D. C., American black bear. 

Robert Nye, Washington, D. C, red-tailed hawk. 

Paramount Aquarium, through Mr. Danisch, New York City, 2 large-headed 
Chinese turtles. 

Lieut. E. M. Perkins, Washington, D. C, coyote. 

Philadelphia Zoological Garden, Philadelphia, Pa., 6 European vipers. 

G. Phillips, Washington, D. C, woodchuck or groundhog. 

James Phillips, Golden Hill, Md., American white-fronted goose. 

G. H. Pollock, Washington, D. C, banded rattlesnake. 

Ramadi Bunnay Rajamatri, Washington, D. C, small turtle. 

Raymond Rapp, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Wm. E. Reeser, Bay Ridge, Md.. black snake. 

Lawrence Reid, Langley, Va., American barn owl. 

Mrs. Mabel T, Reid, Washington, D. C, titi monkey. 
Lowry Riggs, Rockville, Md., spur- winged goose, toucanette. 



74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

Ralph C. Riugler, Grafton, W. Va., barred owl. 

Mrs. R. C. Roberts, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum. 

Mr. Rogers, Washington, D. C, Bonaparte's weasel. 

Buddy Roland, Washington, D. C, opossum. 

President Franklin D. Roosevelt, The White House, 2 East African hedgehogs. 

Paul Rose, Washington, D. C, black snake. 

Louis Ruhe, Inc., New York City, slender-billed cockatoo, 2 Chilean flamingoes. 

Mrs. B. F. Schoff, Washington, D. C, woodchuck or groundhog. 

Carolyn Sheldon, Woodstock, Va., 8 Eastern chipmunks. 

Fred Simpich, Washington, D. C, nine-banded armadillo. 

Mrs. G. B. Smith, Washington, D. C, zebra fluch, orange-cheeked waxbill, society 

finch. 
R. N. Smith, Washington, D. C, green guenon. 
"Smoki People," through Paxson C. Hayes and G. C. Barnes, Prescott, Ariz., 

5 Western buUsnakes, 2 red rattlesnakes, 2 Mexican rattlesnakes. 
Prof. E. L. Strickland, Canal Port, Fla., scarlet snake. 

D. R. Strohl, Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks. 

B. T. Tarmau, Washington, D. C, American magpie. 

Texas Cooperative Wildlife Service, through John Wood and H. R. Siegler, 
Huntsville, Tex., 2 nine-banded armadillos. 

Henry Trefflich, Inc., New York City, spider monkey, 

Mrs. Trundle, Washington, D. C, blue-fronted parrot. 

U. S. Biological Survey, through O. J. Murie, Seattle, Wash., 3 California murre, 
tufted puflSn; National Bison Range, Moiese, Mont., American bison, albmo 
bison; Rodent and Predatory Animal Control Division, Washington, D. C, 
meadow mouse. Lemming mouse, jumping mouse, red-backed mouse, white- 
footed mouse, pine mouse; Chandler R. Young, Lacreek Migratory Waterfowl 
Refuge, Martin, S. D., 2 minks. 

U. S. National Park Service, through A. E. Borell, Albuquerque, N. Mex., 3 
spotted ground squirrels. 

Miss Anna Van Bibbler, Washington, D. C, guinea pig. 

E. G. Vaughn, Salisbury, Md., 3 red-shouldered hawks. 
Adolph L. Vlasski, Washington, D. C, 2 Texas armadillos. 
H. C. Walford, Washington, D. C, domestic goose. 

Ernest P. Walker, Washington, D. C, western buUsnake, 2 dwarf rabbits, 4 

long-tailed tree mice, grasshopper mouse, 8 salamanders, garter snake. 
Miss Edith H. Ward, Washington, D. C, green pheasant. 
Miss Mary Warren, Washington, D. C, 2 false chameleons. 
Miss Lecla Washburn, Washington, D. C, eastern mole. 
Washington Humane Society, Washington, D. C, robin. 
Mrs. E. Weeks, Washington, D. C, alligator. 
R, Wheat, Erlanger, N. C, flying squirrel. 

C, T. White, Norfolk, Va., golden eagle. 

F. S. White, Washington, D. C, common boa. 
K. C. White, Washington, D. C, 2 barn owls. 
Miss L. Wilkins, Washington, D. C, alligator. 
Billy Williams, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Mrs. Robert C. Winmill, Warrenton, Va., Chapman's zebra. 
Fred J. Young, Washington, D. C, skunk. 
Donor unknown, 3 Harris antelope squirrels. 

Births. — There were 34 mammals born and 30 birds hatched in the 
Park during the year. Among the birds were two jackass jDenguins. 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75 

MAMMALS 
Scientific name Common name Number 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 3 

Axis axis Axis deer 1 

Bison bison American bison 2 

Bos frontalis Gayal 1 

Canis rufus Texas red wolf 4 

Capromys ■pilorides Hutia 4 

Cervus elaphus Red deer 5 

Choeropsis liberiensis Pigmy hippopotamus 1 

Dama dama Fallow deer 2 

Equus quagga Qhapmani Chapman's zebra 1 

Felis onca Jaguar 1 

Hemitragus jemlahicus Tahr 1 

Lama glama Llama 2 

Macaca mordax Javan macaque 1 

Oryx beisa annedens Ibean beisa oryx 1 

Ovis europaeus Mouflou 1 

Sika nippon Japanese deer 2 

Taurotragus oryx Eland 1 



Anas domestica Pekin duck 3 

Anas rubripes Black or dusky mallard 9 

Brania canadensis Canada goose 5 

Larus novaehollandiae Silver gull 11 

Spheniscus demersus Jackass penguin 2 

Exchanges. — iVmong important specimens received in exchange 
from various sources were : One South American lesser tiger cat, one 
hairy armadillo, one tamarin, three smooth-clawed frogs, one pair 
dwarf cavies, one giant anteater, and one Sumatran gibbon. 

Purchases. — Important purchases during the year were a pair of 
Pacific otters, a pair of ring-tailed lemurs, a pair of cheetas, a pair of 
Tasmanian devils, a red ouakari monkey, a pair of brush-tailed por- 
cupines, two pottos, one gaboon viper, two tree vipers, one leaf toad, 
and one giant frog {Rana goliath), the first of its kind ever exhibited 
at the Park. 

REMOVALS 

Deaths.— Tho, death on August 12, 1937, of "Babe," the Indian ele- 
phant presented to the Park in May 1934 by Kingling Brothers- 
Barnum and Bailey Circus, removed a famous animal with a record 
of 51 years with circuses, and more than 3 years in the Zoo. Other 
major losses included two Asiatic tapirs, one Bactrian camel, and a 
Steller's sea lion. 

All specimens of scientific value that died during the year were sent 
to the National Museum. 



76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

ANIMALS IN COLLECTION THAT HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN EXHIBITED 

MAMMALS 
Scientific name Common name 

Ardonyx collaris Hog badger. 

Callosciurus piceus Beautiful squirrel. 

Charronia flavigula henrieii Asiatic marten. 

Cuon javanicus sumatrensis Sumatran wild dog. 

Cynopithecus tonsus Black macaque. 

Jaculus jaculus Egyptian jerboa. 

Mico rufimanus Tamarin or black marmoset. 

Micraonyx leptonyx Small-clawed otter. 

Mystax mystax White-lipped tamarin. 

Nydicebus coucang Slow loris. 

Presbytis pyrrhus Javan langur or lotong. 

Ratufa bicolor Javan giant squirrel. 

Ratufa macroura Ceylon giant squirrel. 

Thecurus sumatrae Sumatran brush-tailed porcupine. 

Tomeutes notatus Javan brown squirrel. 

Tupaia siaca Tree shrew. 

BIRDS 

Aplonis chalybea Glossy aplonis. 

Berenicornis comatris Long-crested hornbill. 

Calyptorhynchus magnificus Banksian cockatoo. 

Chalcopsitta atra Black lory. 

Ducula pinon Red-eyed fruit pigeon. 

Fregata ariel Lesser frigate bird. 

Ibis cinereus Malay stork. 

Irena puella Fairy blue bird. 

Ketupa ketupu Malay fishing owl. 

Lamprotreron jamhu Pink-headed fruit pigeon. 

Lophura diardi Siamese crested fire-back pheasant. 

Lophura rubra Malayan fire-back pheasant. 

Manucodia atra Black manucode. 

Megapodius freycineti Molucca megapode. 

Mesia argentauris Silver-eared mesia. 

Myristicivora bicolor Pied imperial pigeon. 

Oriolas chinensis Sumatran oriole. 

Podargus strigoides Tawny frogmouth. 

Pseudeosfuscata Dusky lory. 

Psittrichas fulgidas^ Vulturine parrot. 

Ptilinopus humeralis Purple-shouldered fruit pigeon. 

Ptilinopus regina Purple-capped fruit pigeon. 

Ptilonorhynchus violaceus Satin bower bird. 

Rallus sp Sumatran rail, 

Spilornis nipalensis Serpent eagle. 

Tanygnathus muelleri Mueller's parrot. 

Uria aalge calif ornica California murre. 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY 



77 



BEPTILES 

Acanthosaura armata. _, Armed tree lizard. 

Alligator sinensis _, Chinese alligator. 

Batagur baska Baska turtle. 

Boiga cynodon Cat-eyed tree snake. 

Denisonia superba Australian copper-head snake. 

Geoclemys subtrijuga Siamese field turtle. 

Geomyda spinosa Spiny hill tortoise. 

Notechis scutatus Australian tiger snake. 

Physignathus cocincinus Siamese water dragon. 

Python amethystinus Amethystine python. 

Rana goliath Giant frog. 

Trimeresurus sp Palm viper. 

Trionyx cartilagineus Asiatic soft-shelled turtle. 

Statement of accessions 



Class 


Received 

from 
National 
Geographic- 
Smithsonian 
Institution 
East Indies 
Expedition 


Pre- 
sented 


Born 


Received 

in 
exchange 


Pur- 
chased 


On de- 
posit 


Total 




121 
649 
108 

1 


118 
74 

167 
10 


34 
30 


16 
13 
25 
3 


18 
24 
28 
10 
18 


9 

8 
6 


316 


Birds - 


798 




333 






24 








18 






3 








3 










6 




5 
















Total 


879 


372 


64 


57 


103 


22 


1,497 







Summary 

Animals on hand July 1, 1937 2, 342 

Accessions during the year 1,497 



Total animals in collection during year 3,839 

Removal from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on 

deposit 1,085 



In coUection June 30, 1938 

Status of collection 



2,754 



Class 


Species 


Individuals 


Class 


Species 


Individuals 




239 

367 

134 

28 

21 


699 
1,264 
432 
129 
117 


Arachnids 


2 
1 
1 


7 


Birds 


Insects 


100 


Reptiles 


Mollusks ... 


6 




Total. 




Fishes 


793 


2,754 









78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1938 

Mammals 

marsupialia 
Didelphidae: Number 

Didelphis virginiana Opossum 4 

Metachirus opossum Zorro or banana opossum.., 1 

Dasyuridae: 

Dasyurus viverrinus Viverrine native cat 1 

SarcopJdlus ursinus Tasmanian devil 2 

Phalangeridae: 

Peiaurus bretnceps Lesser flying phalanger. 3 

Trichosurus vulpecula Vulpine opossum 1 

Macropodidae: 

Dendrolagus inustus Tree kangaroo 2 

Dendrolagus ursinus y. D. inustus. Hybrid tree kangaroo 1 

INSECTIVORA 

Erinaceidae: 

Atelerix hindei East African hedgehog 2 

CABNIVORA 

Felidae: 

Acinonyx juhatus Cheeta 2 

Felis concolor Puma 5 

Felis leo Lion 6 

Felis ocreaia African wild cat 1 

„ ,. [Jaguar 3 

Felts onca <,^. , . ^ 

[Black ]aguar 2 

Felis pardalis Ocelot 1 

Felis pardinoides Lesser tiger cat 1 

„ ,. J [Leopard 5 

Fehs pardus j^^^^^ ^^^p^^^ 3 

Felis pardus suahdicus East African leopard 1 

Felis tigris longipilis Siberian tiger 2 

Felis tigris sondaicus Sumatran tiger 4 

Lynx haileyi Bailey's Ij'nx 1 

Lynx caracal Caracal 1 

Lynx rufus . Bay lynx - 5 

Neofelis nebulosa Clouded leopard 1 

Profelis temmincki., Baj^ or golden cat 3 

Viverridae: 

Ardiciis hinturong Binturong 5 

Civettictis civetta Civet 1 

Genetta dongalana neumanni Neumann's genet 1 

Moschoihera megaspila Civet 2 

Paradoxurus hermaphrodytus ^ Small-toothed palm civet 4 

Hyaenidae: 

Crocuta crocuta germinans East African spotted hyena 1 

Hyaena brunnea Brown hyena 2 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79 

Canidae: Number 

Cams dingo Dingo...- 2 

^ , , ^ [Coyote 16 

Cams latrans s .,. . , „ 

[Albino coyote 3 

Canis latrans X domestica Coyote and dog hybrid 1 

Cants lupus lycaon Timber wolf 2 

Canis lupus nubilus Wolf 3 

Canis lupus nuhilus X domesticus-.. Wolf and dog hybrid 5 

Canis rufus Texan red wolf 1 

Chrysocyon jubata Maned wolf 7 

Cuon javanicus sumatrensis Sumatran wild dog 1 

Urocyon cinereoargenteus Gray fox 1 

Vulpes fulva Red fox 9 

Procyonidae: 

Nasua narica Gray coatimundi 4 

Polos flavus Kinkajou 2 

Procyon cancrivorus Crab-eating raccoon 1 

{Raccoon 12 

Albino raccoon 1 

Black raccoon 5 

Bassariscidae: 

Bassariscus astutus Ring-tail or cacomistle 1 

Mustelidae: 

Arctonyx collaris Hog badger 2 

Charronia flavigula henricii Asiatic marten 1 

Galictis barbara barbara White tayra 2 

Lutra canadensis vaga Florida otter 3 

Mellivora capensis Ratel 1 

Mephiiis nigra Skunk 12 

Micraonyx leptonyx Small-clawed otter 1 

Muatela eversmanni Ferret 3 

Muslela noveboracensis Weasel 1 

Mustela vison vison Mink 1 

Spilogale ambarvalis Florida spotted skunk 1 

Ursidae: 

Euarcios americanus American black bear 5 

Euarctos emmonsii Glacier bear 1 

Helardos malayanus Malay or sun bear 1 

Thalarctos maritimus Polar bear 2 

Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus gyas. Hybrid bear 3 

Ursus ardos European brown bear 3 

Ursus gyas Alaska Peninsula brown bear 4 

Ursus kidderi Kidder's bear 1 

Ursus middendorffi, Kodiak bear 4 

Ursus sitkensis Sitka brown bear 3 

Ursus ihibetanus Himalayan bear 3 

PINNIPEDIA 

Otariidae: 

Zalophus californianus California sea lion 2 

Phocidae: 

Phoca richardii Pacific harbor seal 3 



80 ANNUAL, KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

PRIMATES 

Lemuridae: Number 

Lemur catta _ Ring-tailed lemur 2 

Nydicebus coucang Slow loris 5 

Perodicticus potto Potto 1 

Perodicticus sp Potto 1 

Callitrichidae: 

Leontocebus rosalia Lion-headed or golden marmoset.. 3 

Mico argeniala Black-tailed marmoset 2 

Mystax mystax White-lipped tamarin 1 

Saimiridae: 

Saimiri sciureus Titi or squirrel monkey 1 

Cebidae: 

Cacajao rubicundus Red ouakari 1 

Cebus apella Brown capuchin 1 

Cebus capucinus White-throated capuchin 5 

Cebus fatuella Weeping capuchin 3 

Cebus sp Brown capuchin 2 

Cercopithecidae: 

Cercoccbus fuUginosus Sooty mangabey 5 

Cercopithecus aethiops roloway Roloway monkey 1 

Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus Green guenon 6 

Cercopithecus albigularis Syke's guenon 2 

Cercopithecus diana Diana monkey 1 

Cercopithecus neglectus De Brazza's guenon 1 

Cercopithecus petaurista Lesser white-nosed guenon 2 

Cercopithecus pygerythra Vervet guenon 1 

Colobus polycomos caudatus White-tailed guereza 1 

Colobus polycomos polycomos White-tailed colobus 1 

Macaca fuscata Japanese monkey 2 

Macaca lasiotis Chinese macaque 3 

Macaca mordax Javan macaque 13 

Macaca mulatta Rhesus monkey 10 

Macaca nemestrina Pig-tailed monkey — 8 

Macaca silenus Wanderoo monkey 2 

Macaca sinica Bonnet monkey 1 

Magxis maurus Moor monkey 4 

Mandrillus leucophaeus Drill 1 

Mandrillus sphinx — Mandrill 3 

Papio comatus Chacma 2 

Papio papio cynocephalus East African baboon 1 

Papio papio papio West African baboon 1 

Presbytia pyrrhus Javan langur or lotong 1 

Theropithecus gelada Gelada baboon 1 

Hylobatidae: 

Hylobates agilis Sumatran gibbon 1 

Hylobates lar pileatus White-handed gibbon 3 

Symphalangus syndactylus Siamang gibbon 1 

Pongidae: 

Pan satyrus Chimpanzee 2 

Pongo abelii Sumatran orangutan 2 

Pongo pygmaeus Bornean orangutan 1 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81 
KODENTIA 

Sciuridae: Number 

Ammospermophilus harrisi Harris antelope squirrel 3 

Callosciurus melanops Sumatran tricolored squirrel 2 

Callosciurus piceus Beautiful squirrel 1 

Callospermophilus saturatus Mantled ground squirrel 2 

Citellus mexicanus parvidens Rio Grande ground squirrel 1 

Citellus richardsonii Richardson ground squirrel 8 

Citellus richardsonii elegans Picket-pin gopher 1 

Citellus spilosoma Spotted ground squirrel 3 

Citellus tridecemlineatus Flag squirrel 6 

Cynomys ludovicianus Prairie dog 10 

Eutamias amoenus amoenus Klamath chipmunk 1 

Glaucomys volans Flying squirrel 7 

Marmota flaviventris Marmot or whistler 2 

,^ , fWoodchuck or groundhog 12 

Marmota monax < .... , , , „ 

lAlbmo woodchuck or groundhog.. 1 

Ratufa bicolor Javan giant squirrel 1 

Sciurus finlaysoni Lesser white squirrel 8 

Sdurus hoffmani subsp Hoffman's squirrel 2 

Sciurus niger Fox squirrel 5 

Tamias striatus Eastern chipmunk 2 

Tamiasciurus hudsonicus Red squirrel 1 

Tomeutes notatus Javan brown squirrel 2 

Geomyidae: 

Thomomys douglasii yelmerhsis Yelm pocket gopher 1 

Heteromyidae: 

Dipodomys deserti Desert kangaroo rat 1 

Dipodomys merriami Merriam kangaroo rat 2 

Microdipodops pallidus Gnome or kangaroo mouse 1 

Perognathus hispidus Hispid pocket mouse 1 

Perognathus longimembris Nevada pocket mouse 1 

Perognathus parvus Great Basin pocket mouse 1 

Perognathus penicilliaius Desert pocket mouse 1 

Jaculidae: 

Jaculus jaculus Egyptian jerboa 4 

Castoridae: 

Castor canadensis Beaver 1 

Cricetidae: 

Neotoma floridana attwateri Round-tailed wood rat 2 

Onychomys sp Grasshopper mouse 1 

Peromyscus leucopus White-footed mouse 3 

Sigmodon hispidus Cotton rat 9 

Zapus hudsonius Jumping mouse 1 

Rhizomyidae: 

Nyctocleptes sumatrensis Bamboo rat 1 

Muridae: 

Cricelomys gambianus Gambia pouched rat 2 

Hystricidae: 

Acanthion brachyurum Malay porcupine 5 

Atherurus africana West African brush-tailed porcu- 2 

pine. 

Hystrix galeata East African porcupine 2 

Thecurus sumatrae Sumatran porcupine 1 



82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Erethizontidae: Number 

Coendou prehensilis Prehensile-tailed porcupine 1 

Capromyidae: 

Capromys pilorides Hutia 8 

Cuniculidae: 

Cuniculus paca virgatus Central American paca 2 

Dasyproctidae: 

Dasrjprocia croconota prymnolopha.. Agouti 2 

Myoprocta sp Tailed agouti 1 

Caviidae: 

Cavia porcellus Domestic guinea pig 10 

Dolichoiis magellanica Patagonian cavy 1 

Pediolagus salinicola Dwarf cavy 3 

Hydrochoeridae: 

Hydrochoerus hydrochoerus Capybara 1 

LAGOMORPHA 

Leporidae: 

Lepus americanus Varying hare or snowshoe rabbit .. 1 

^ , . , [Domestic rabbit 2 

Orydolagus cuniculus... JAngora rabbit 1 

AKTIODACTYLA 

Bovidae: 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 11 

Anoa depressicornis Anoa 2 

Antilope cervicapra Black buck or Indian antelope 1 

Bibos gaurus Gaur 2 

Bison bison American bison 24 

Bos frontalis Gayal 5 

Bos indicus Zebu 4 

Boselaphus tragocamelus Nilgai 1 

Bubalus bubalis Indian buffalo 1 

Capra sibirica Siberian ibex 1 

Connochaetes gnu White-tailed gnu 2 

Connochaetes taurinus albojubaius . _ White-bearded gnu 2 

Hemitragus jemlahicus Tahr 5 

Onotragus lechee Lechee antelope 1 

Oryx beisa annectens Ibean beisa oryx 2 

Ovis europaeus Mouflon 3 

Poephagus grunniens Yak 3 

Pseudois nahura Bharal or blue sheep 2 

Synceros coffer African buffalo 2 

Tauroiragus oryx Eland 3 

Antilocapridae: 

Antilocapra americana Pronghorn antelope 2 

Cervidae: 

Axis axis Axis deer 8 

Cervus canadensis American elk 2 

Cervus duvaucellii Barasingha deer 3 

Cervus elaphus European red deer 14 

Cervus xanthopygus , Bedford deer 2 

_ , [Fallow deer 8 

Damadama j White fallow deer 15 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83 

Cervidae — Continued. Number 

Muntiacus muntjak Barking or rib-faced deer 1 

Muntiacus sinensis Chinese rib-faced deer 1 

Odocoileui costaricensis Costa Rican deer 2 

Odocoileus virginianus Virginia deer 3 

Rusa moluccensis Molucca deer 2 

Rusa unicolor Sambur deer 1 

Sika nippon Japanese deer 8 

Tragulidae: 

Tragulus javanicus Javan mouse deer 1 

Giraffidae: 

Giraffa camelopardalis Nubian giraffe 4 

Camelidae: 

Lama glama Llama 7 

Lama huanacus Guanaco 2 

Tayassuidae: 

Pecari angulatus _ Collared peccary 2 

Tayassu pecari White-lipped peccary 2 

Suidae: 

Babirussa alfurus Babirussa 3 

Phacochoerus aethiopicus massaicus^ East African warthog 3 

Sua scrofa European wild boar 1 

Hippopotamidae: 

Choeropsis liberiensis Pigmy hippopotamus 3 

Hippopotamus amphibius Hippopotamus 1 

PERISSODACTYLA 

Equidae: 

Equus grevyi Grevy 's zebra 1 

Equus grevyi-asinus Zebra-ass hybrid 1 

Equus grevyi-caballus Zebra-horse hybrid 1 

Equus onager Asiatic wild ass or kiang 2 

Equus przewalskii Mongolian wild horse 3 

Equus quagga chapmani Chapman's zebra 10 

Equus zebra Mountain zebra 2 

Tapiridae: 

Acrocodia indica Asiatic tapir 1 

Tapir ella bairdii Baird's tapir 1 

Tapirus terrestris Brazilian tapir 1 

Rhinocerotidae: 

Diceros bicornis Black rhinoceros 1 

PROBOSCIDEA 

Elephantidae: 

Elephas sumairanus Sumatran elephant 1 

Loxodonta africana oxyotis African elephant 1 

EDENTATA 

Choloepodidae: 

Choloepus didactylus Two-toed sloth 3 

Dasypodidae: 

Dasypus novemcinctus Nine-banded armadillo 1 

Euphradus sexcinctus Six-banded armadillo 1 

Myrmecophagidae: 

Myrmecophaga jubata Giant anteater 1 

114728—39 7 



84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN" INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Birds 

struthioniformes 
Struthionidae: Number 
Struthio camelus South African ostrich 1 

RHEIFORMES 

Rheidae: 

Rhea americana Common rhea or nandu 1 



CASUARIIFORMES 

Casuariidae: 

Casuarius benneti Bennett's cassowary 1 

Casuarius sp. (young) Cassowary 5 

Casuarius unappendiculatus Single- wattled cassowary 1 

Dromiceiidae: 

Dromiceius novaehollandiae Common emu 1 

BPHENISCIF0RME8 

Spheniscidae: 

Spheniscus demersus Jackass penguin 5 

PELECANIPORMES 

Pelecanidae: 

Pelecanus californicus California brown pelican 2 

Pelecanus conspicillatus Australian pelican 1 

Pelecanus erythrorhynchos American white pelican 6 

Pelecanus erythrorhynchos X P. 

occidentalis Hybrid pelican, _ 1 

Pelecanus occidentalis Brown pelican 4 

Pelecanus onocrotalus European pelican 2 

Pelecanus roseus Rose-colored pelican 2 

Sulidae: 

Morus bassanus Gannet 1 

Sula granti Blue-footed booby 1 

Phalacrocoracidae : 

Nannopterum harrisi Flightless cormorant 2 

Phalacrocorax auritus albociliatus Farallon cormorant 2 

Phalacrocorax auritus floridanus Florida cormorant 1 

Anhingidae: 

Anhinga anhinga Anhinga 1 

Fregatidae: 

Fregata ariel Lesser frigate bird 2 

CICONIIFORME8 

Ardeidae: 

Ardea herodias Great blue heron 1 

Ardea herodias X A. occidentalis Hybrid heron 2 

Ardea occidentalis Great white heron 1 

Cfismerodius albus egretta American egret 1 

Nycticorax nycticorax naevius Black-crowned night heron 25 

Cochleariidae: 

Cochlearius cochlearius Boatbill heron 3 

Balaenicipitidae : 

Balaeniceps rex Shoebill stork 3 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85 

Scopidae: Number 

Scopus umbretta Hammerhead 1 

Ciconiidae: 

Dissoura episcopus Woolly-necked stork 1 

Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis Saddle-billed stork 1 

Ibis cinereus Malay stork 2 

Jabiru mycleria Jabiru 2 

Leptoptilus crumeniferus Marabou 1 

Leptoptilus dubius Indian adjutant 1 

Leptoptilus javanicus Lesser adjutant 2 

Mycteria americana Wood ibis 1 

Threskiornithidae : 

Ajaia ajaja Roseate spoonbill 1 

Guara alba White ibis 3 

Guar a alba X G. rubra Hybrid ibis 1 

Guara rubra Scarlet ibis 2 

Threskiornis aethiopica Sacred ibis 2 

Threskiornis melanocephala Black-headed ibis 1 

Phoenicopteridae : 

Phoenicopterus chilensis Chilean flamingo 8 

ANSERIFORME8 

Anatidae: 

Aix sponsa Wood duck 13 

Alopochen aegyptiacus Egyptian goose 2 

Anas domestica.. Peking duck 15 

Anas platyrhynchos Mallard 26 

Anas rulripes Black or dusky mallard 1 

Anas xindulata African yellow-billed duck 8 

Anser albifrons American white-fronted goose 3 

Anser fabalis Bean goose 2 

Branta bernicla Brant 3 

Branta canadensis Canada goose 9 

Branta canadensis hutchinsii Hutchin's goose 4 

Branta canadensis minima Cackling goose 4 

Branta canadensis occidentahs White-cheeked goose 18 

Branta leucopsis Barnacle goose 1 

Cairina moschata Muscovy duck 3 

Casarca variegata Paradise duck 1 

Cereopsis novaehollandiae Cereopsis or Cape Barren goose 1 

Chen atlantica Snow goose 7 

Chen caerulescens Blue goose 9 

Chloephaga leucoptera Magellan goose 1 

Cygnopsis cygnoides Chinese goose 2 

Cygnus columbianus Whistling swan 3 

Cygnus olor Mute swan 1 

Dafila acuta Pintail duck_. 6 

Dafila bahamensis Bahaman pintail 1 

Dafila acuta X D. sp Pintail hybrid 1 

Dendrocygna arborea Black-billed duck._, 4 

Dendrocygna autumnalis Black-beUied tree duck 4 

Dendrocygna viduata White-faced tree duck 1 

Mareca americana Bald pate 3 

Nyroca collaris Ring-neck duck 1 



86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Anatidae — Continued. Number 

Philacte canagica Emperor goose 11 

Pleciropterus gambensis Spur-winged goose 2 

Querquedula cyanoptera Cinnamon teal 1 

Querquedula discors Blue-winged teal 1 

Sarkidiornis melanota Comb duck 1 

FALCONIFORMEB 

Cathartidae: 

Cathartes aura Turkey vulture 3 

Cathartes aura X Coragyps atratus. Black Carolina and turkey vulture 1 

hybrid. 

Coragyps atraius Black vulture 1 

Gymnogyps californianus California condor 3 

Vultur gryphus South American condor 1 

Accipitridae: 

Aegypius monachus Cinereous vulture 1 

Aquila chrysaetos Golden eagle 2 

Buteo borealis Red-tailed hawk 3 

Buteo lineatus Red-shouldered hawk 3 

Buteo platypterus Broad-winged hawk 1 

Buteo swainsoni Swainson's hawk 1 

Gypaetus harbatus grandis... Lammergeyer 1 

Gyps rueppelli Ruppell's vulture 1 

Haliastur Indus Malay brahminy kite 3 

Haliaeetus leucocephalus Bald eagle 20 

Milvus migrans Yellow-billed kite 1 

Pandion haliaetus carolinensis Osprey or fish hawk 2 

Stephanoaetus coronatus Crowned hawk eagle 1 

Torgos tracheliotus African eared- vulture 1 

Uroaetus audax Wedge-tailed eagle 1 

Falconidae: 

Falco columbarius Pigeon hawk. 1 

Falco sparverius Sparrow hawk 3 

Polihierax semitorquatus African pigmy falcon 1 

Polyborus cheriway Audubon's caracara 2 

Polyborus plancus South American caracara 1 

OAIJjIFGRMES 

Megapodiidae: 

Megapodius freycineti Molucca megapode 2 

Cracidae: 

Crax rubra Panama curassow 1 

Mitu mitu Razor-billed curassow 1 

Mitu salvini Salvin's curassow 1 

Phasianidae: 

Alectoris graeca Chukar partridge 2 

Argusianus argus Argus pheasant 2 

Catreus wallichii Cheer pheasant 1 

Chrysolophus amherstiae Lady Amherst's pheasant 1 

Chrysolophus amherstiae X Syr- 

malicus reevesi Hybrid pheasant 1 

Chrysolophus pidus Golden pheasant 4 

Colinus virginianus Bobwhite 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87 

Phasianidae — Continued. Number 

Coturnix coturnix Migratory quail 26 

Coturnix japonica Asiatic migratory quail 1 

Crossoptilon mantchuricum Manchurian pheasant 1 

Excalfadoria chinensis Blue-breasted button quail 8 

Gallus gallus Jungle fowl 3 

Gallus gallus X Numida galeata Chicken X guinea fowl hybrid 2 

Gennaeus lineatus Liijeated pheasant 3 

Gennaeus nycthemerus Silver pheasant 2 

Hierophasis swinhoei Swinhoe's pheasant 1 

Lophophorus impeyanus Himalayan Impeyan pheasant 2 

Lophura diardi Siamese crested fire-back pheasant. 1 

Lophura rubra Malayan fire-back pheasant 1 

Pavo cristatus Blue peafowl 5 

Pavo muticus Green peafowl 2 

„, . . , fRing-necked pheasant 2 

Phastanus torquatus S TTrvx • i j v a o 

I White rmg-necked pheasant 2 

Phasianus torquatus formosanus Formosan ring-necked pheasant 1 

Phasianus versicolor Green pheasant 4 

Syrmaticus reevesi Reeve's pheasant 2 

GRUIFORMES 

Gruidae: 

Anihropoides virgo Demoiselle crane 2 

Antigone australasiana Australian crane 1 

Balearica pavonina West African crowned crane 1 

Balearica regulorum gibbericeps East African crowned crane 1 

Grus canadensis canadensis Little brown crane 1 

Grus canadensis tabida Sandhill crane 1 

Grus leucauchen White-naped crane 1 

Grus leucogeranus Siberian crane 2 

Psophiidae: 

Psophia crepitans Gray-backed trumpeter 1 

Rallidae: 

Gallinula chloropus cachinnans Florida gallinule 2 

Gallinula chloropus sub. sp Sumatran gallinule 3 

Limnocorax flavirostra African black rail 3 

Porphyria melanotus New Zealand mud hen 1 

Porphyria poliocephalus Gray-headed porphyrio 2 

Rallus sp Sumatran rail 3 

Eurypygidae: 

Eurypyga helias Sun bittern 2 

Otididae: 

Otis cafra Denham's bustard 1 

Otis caffra jacksoni Jackson's bustard 1 

CHARADRIIFORMES 

H aematopo di dae : 

Haematopus ostralegus European oyster catcher 2 

Charadriidae: 

Belonopterus cayennensis South American lapwing 1 

Sarciophorus tectus Black-headed plover 1 

Scolopacidae: 

Philomachus pugnax RuflF 1 



88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Laridae: Number 

Larus argentatus Herring gull 1 

Larus delawarensis Ring-billed gull 2 

Larus glaucescens Glaucous-winged gull 1 

Larus novaehollandiae Silver gull 65 

Larus occidentalis Western gull 1 

Larus ridihundus European gull 1 

COLtJMBIFORME8 

Pteroclidae: 

Pterocles orientalis Oriental sandgrouse 2 

Columbidae: 

Caloenas nicobarica Nicobar pigeon 5 

Chalcophaps indica Emerald dove 4 

Columha fulviventris Forest dove 1 

Columba leuconota Tibetan pigeon 2 

Columba palumbus Wood pigeon 1 

Columba livia (domestic) Archangel pigeon 2 

Columba livia (domestic) Fan-tailed pigeon 5 

Dendrophassa vernans Sumatran fruit pigeon 4 

Ducula aenea Green imperial pigeon 4 

Ducula pinon Red-eyed fruit pigeon 4 

Gallicolumba luzonica Bleeding heart dove 10 

Goura sclaterii Sclater 's crowned pigeon 5 

Goura victoria Victoria crowned pigeon 5 

Lamprotreron jambu Pink-headed fruit pigeon 8 

Leptotila rufaxilla Scaled pigeon 2 

Macropygia unchall Cuckoo dove 11 

Muscadivores paulina Celebian imperial pigeon 4 

Myristicivora bicolor Pied imperial pigeon 5 

Ptilinopus humeralis Purple-shouldered fruit dove 2 

Ptilinopus regina Purple-capped fruit dove 5 

Streptopelia chinensis Asiatic collared dove 28 

Streptopelia risoria Ring-necked dove 7 

Streptopelia senegalensis East African ring-necked dove 1 

Turtur risorius Turtle dove 1 

Zenaidura macroura macroura West Indian dove 1 

PSITTACIFORMB8 

Psittacidae: 

Agapornis Ulianae Nyassa lovebird 1 

Amazona albifrons White-fronted parrot 3 

Amazona amazonica Orange- winged parrot 2 

Amazona arausiaca Bouquet's parrot 1 

Amazona auropalliata Yellow-naped parrot 10 

Amazona bodini Red-fronted parrot 1 

Amazona f estiva Festive parrot 1 

Amazona leucocephala Cuban parrot 2 

Amazona ochrocephala Yellow-headed parrot 9 

Amazona ochroptera YeUow-shouldered parrot 3 

Amazona oratrix Double yellow-head parrot 6 

Ama zona viridigenalis Red-crowned parrot 1 

Anodorhynchus hyadnthinus Hyacinthine macaw 1 

Aprosmictus amboinensis Amboina lory 1 

Ara ararauna Yellow and blue macaw 3 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89 

Psittacidae — Continued. Number 

Ara chloroptera Red and yellow macaw 1 

Ara macao Red, yellow, and blue macaw 3 

Ara maracana lUiger's macaw 2 

Ara militaria Mexican green macaw . 3 

Ara severa Severe macaw 1 

Aratinga solstitialis Yellow paroquet 1 

Brotogeris jugularis Tovi paroquet 2 

Calyptorhynchus magnificus Banksian cockatoo 1 

Coracopsis nigra Lesser vasa parrot 1 

Cyanopsittacus spixi Spix's macaw 2 

Domicella garrula garrula Red lory 11 

Eclectus pectoralis Eclectus parrot 2 

Eolophus roseicapillus Roseate cockatoo 2 

Eos cyanogenia Blue-eared lory 1 

Eos rubra Red lory 1 

Eupsittula aurea Golden-crowned paroquet 1 

Eupsittula canicularis Petz paroquet 1 

Kakatoe alba White-crested cockatoo 3 

Kakatoe citrinocristata Orange-crested cockatoo 1 

Kakatoe galerita Sulphur-crested cockatoo 4 

Kakatoe leadbeateri Leadbeater's cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe moluccensis Great red-crested cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe sulphur ea Lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo 11 

Kakatoe tenuirostris Slender-billed cockatoo 1 

Leptolophus novaehollandicus Cockatiel 2 

Loriculus galgulus Hanging parrotlet 2 

Lorius domicella Rajah lory 2 

Lorius lory Blue-crowned lory 1 

Melopsittacus undulatus Grass paroquet 17 

Microglossus aterrimus Great black cockatoo 1 

Myopsitta monachus Quaker paroquet 1 

Nandayus nanday Nanday paroquet 1 

Nestor notahilis Kea 4 

Pionites xanthomera Amazonian caique 2 

Pionus menstruus Blue-headed parrot 1 

Psittacula eupatria Red-shouldered paroquet 5 

Psittacula krameri Kramer's paroquet 6 

Psittacula longicauda Long-tailed paroquet 3 

Psittacula nepalensis Nepalese paroquet 1 

Psittacus erithacus African gray parrot 2 

Tanygnaihus megalorhynchus Great-billed parrot 1 

Tanygnathus muelleri Mueller parrot 1 

Trichoglossus cyanogrammus Green-naped lory 1 

Trichoglossus haematod Ceram lory 4 

Trichoglossus nigrogularis Blue-fronted lory 3 

Trichoglossus novaehallandiae Blue-bellied lory 1 

CUCTJLIFORMES 

Cuculidae: 

Centropus sinensis Sumatran coucal 1 

Eudynamis scolopaceus Koel 2 



90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

BTRIGIFORMES 

Strigidae: Number 

Bubo virginianus Great horned owl 7 

Ketupa ketupu Malay fishing owl 1 

Otus asio Screech owl 2 

Strix varia Barred owl 15 

CAPRIMULGIFORMEa 

Caprimulgidae: 

Chordeiles minor Nighthawk 2 

Podargidae: 

Podargus strigoides Tawny frogmouth 1 

CORACIIFORMEB 

Alcedinidae: 

Dacelo gigas Kookaburra 2 

Halcyon pyrrhopygius Red-backed kingfisher 2 

Halcyon sanctus Sacred kingfisher 6 

Momotidae: 

Momotus momotus parensis Motnaot 1 

Bucerotidae: 

Berenicornis comat us Long-crested hornbill 1 

Buceros rhinoceros Rhinoceros hornbill 2 

Bucorvus abyssinicus Abyssinian ground hornbiU 2 

Dichoceros bicornis Concave casque hornbill 2 

Hydrocissa convexa Pied hornbill 2 

Rhyticeros plicatus Plicated hornbill 1 

PICIFORMES 

Ramphastidae: 

Pteroglossus bitorquatus Two-banded aracari 1 

Ramphastos ariel Ariel toucan 1 

Ramphastos culminatus White-breasted toucan 1 

Ramphastos toco Toco toucan 2 

Selenidera culik Guiana toucanette 1 

Capitonidae: 

Ihereiceryx zeylandicus Streaked barbet 2 

PA88ERIFORME8 

Oriolidae: 

Oriolas chinensis Sumatran oriole 3 

Cotingidae: 

Chasmorhynchus nudicollis Naked-throated bell-bird 2 

Rupicola rupicola Cock of the rock 1 

Pittidae: 

Pitta brachyura Indian pitta 1 

Pitta moluscensis Molucca pitta 2 

Tyrannidae: 

Pitangus sulphuratus Kiskadee flycatcher 2 

Corvidae: 

Aphelocoma calif ornica woodhousei.- Woodhouse's jay 1 

Calocitta formosa Mexican magpie jay 1 

Cissa chinensis Chinese cissa 2 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 91 

Corvidae — Continued. Number 

Corvus albus White-breasted crow 2 

Corvus brachyrhynchos American crow 3 

Corvus corax sinuatus American raven 1 

Corvus coronoides Australian crow 2 

Corvus crypioleucus White-necked raven 6 

Corvus insolens Indian crow 4 

Cyanocitta cristata Blue jay 2 

Cyanocorax cyanopogon White-naped jay 2 

Gymnorhina hypoleuca White-backed piping crow 3 

Pica nutialU Yellow-billed magpie 3 

Pica pica hudsonia American magpie 6 

Urocissa occipitalis Red-billed blue magpie 2 

Xanihoura luxuosa guatemalensis Guatemalan green jay 1 

Paradiseidae: 

Manucodia atra Black manucode 1 

Paradisea minor Lesser bird of paradise 2 

Paradisea rubra Red bird of paradise 10 

Schlegelia wilsoni Wilson's bird of paradise 1 

Seleucides niger 1 2-wired bird of paradise 3 

Ptilonorhynchidae: 

Ptilonorhynchus violaceus Satin bower bird 4 

Timaliidae: 

Pomatorhinus erythrogenys imlerbis. Salvadori's scimitar-babbler 1 

Pycnonotidae: 

Molpastes haemorrhous Black-headed bulbul 1 

Otocompsa jocosus Red-eared bulbul 1 

Pycnonotus analis Yellow-vented bulbul 2 

Pycnonoius bindentatus Orange-spotted bulbul 3 

Rubigula dispar Red-throated bulbul 3 

Trachycomus zeylonicus Yellow-crowned bulbul 4 

Irenidae: 

Irena puella Fairy blue bird... 1 

Turdidae: 

Mesia argenlauris __ Silver-eared mesia 2 

Mimodchla rubripes^ _ Western red-legged thrush 4 

Turdus grayi Bonaparte's thrush 1 

Turdus migralorius Robin 1 

Laniidae: 

Lanivs dorsalis Teita fiscal shrike 2 

Sturnidae: 

Aplonis chalybea Glossy aplonis 2 

Cosmopsaris regius Splendid starling 3 

Creatophora cinerea Wattled starling 2 

Galeopsar salvadorii Crested starhng 1 

Gracula javana Javan mynah 4 

Gracula palawanensis Palawan mynah 2 

Gracula religiosa Southern hill mynah 2 

Gracupica melanoptera Gray starling 4 

Lamprocolius sycobius Southern glossy starling 1 



92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Coerebidae: Number 

Cyanerpes cyaneus Blue honey creeper 1 

Icteridae: 

Agelaius assimilis Cuban red-winged blackbird 5 

Agelaius iderocephalus Yellow-headed marsh bird 1 

Gymnomystax mexicanus Giant oriole 2 

Icterus giraudi Giraud's oriole 1 

Molothrus ater Cowbird j. 1 

Psomocolax oryxivora Rice grackle 1 

Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus YeUow-headed blackbird 4 

Thraupidae: 

Piranga erythromelas Scarlet tanager 1 

Spindalis pretrei Cuban spindalis 1 

Tanagra luteicapilla Yellow-crowned euphonia 1 

Thraupis cana Blue tanager 2 

Thraupis palmar um melanoptera Palm tanager 1 

Ploceiidae: 

Amadina fasciata Cut-throat finch 1 

Coliuspasser ardens Red-necked whydah 3 

Diatropura procne Giant whydah 6 

Munia maja White-headed munia 30 

Munia molucca Black-throated munia 15 

,, . . I White Java sparrow 2 

Muma oryzivora < _ ,„ 

IJava sparrow 12 

Munia punctulatus Rice bird 6 

Ploceus baya Baya weaver 5 

Ploceus intermedins Black-cheeked weaver 15 

Ploceus rubiginosus Chestnut-breasted weaver 8 

Poephila acuticauda Long-tailed finch 13 

Poephila gouldiae Gouldian finch 5 

Quelea sanguinirostris intermedia Southern masked weaver finch 1 

Steganopleura bichenovii Banded finch 6 

Steganura paradisea Paradise whydah 7 

Taeniopygia castanotis Zebra finch 2 

Fringillidae: 

Amandava amandava Strawberry finch 75 

Carduelis carduelis European gold finch 1 

Erythrura prasina Long-tailed munia 2 

Fringilla montifringilla Brambling finch 1 

Melopyrrha nigra Cuban bullfinch 1 

Paroaria cucullata Red-crested or Brazilian cardinal _ . 2 

Pheucticus tibialis Yellow grosbeak 1 

Serinus canarius Canary 4 

Sicalis minor Lesser yellow finch 1 

Sporophila aurita Hick's seed-eater 4 

Sporophila gutturalis YeUow-bellied seed-eater 3 

Tiaris canora Melodius grassquit 3 

Uroloncha sp Society finch 2 

Volatinia jacarini Blue-black grassquit ^^ 1 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93 

Reptiles 

loricata 
Crocodylidae: Number 

Alligator mississipiensis Alligator 36 

Alligator sinensis Chinese alligator 3 

Caiman sclerops Caiman 3 

Crocodylus acutus American crocodile 1 

Crocodylus cataphr actus West African crocodile 1 

Crocodylus porosus Salt-water crocodile 1 

Osteolaemus tetraspis Broad-nosed crocodile 1 

Tomistoma schlegeli Malayan gavial 7 

SQUAMATA 

Lacertidae: 

Lacerta muralis Wall lizard 1 

Agamidae: 

Acanthosaura armata Armed tree lizard 2 

Physignathus cocincinus Siamese water dragon 2 

Physignathus lesueurii Lesueur's water dragon 1 

Iguanidae: 

Anolis carolinensis False chameleon 12 

Anolis equestris Giant anolis 8 

Anolis porcatus Cuban anolis 2 

Conolophus subcristatus Galapagos iguana 1 

Cyclura cornuta Rhinoceros iguana 1 

Iguana sp Rock iguana 1 

Leiocephalus cubensis Cuban curl-tailed lizard 4 

Phrynosoma cornutum Horned lizard 6 

Phrynosoma platyrhinos Horned lizard 3 

Sceloporus magister Western spiny lizard 1 

Sceloporus torquatus Scaly lizard 4 

Sceloporus undulatus Fence lizard 3 

Anguidae: 

Ophisaurus apus European glass snake 1 

Gerrhosauridae : 

Gerrhosaurus validus Robust plated lizard 1 

Helodermatidae: 

Heloderma horridum Mexican beaded lizard 4 

Heloderma suspectum Gila monster 8 

Teiidae: 

Cnemidophorus s. sexlineatus Six-lined lizard 3 

Tupinambis nigropunctatus Tegu lizard 2 

Scincidae: 

Egernia cunninghami Cunnihgham's skink 3 

Eumeces fasciaius Red-headed skink 1 

Eumeces obsoletus Brown skink 3 

Tiliqua nigrolutea Mottled lizard 1 

Tiliqua scincoides Blue-tongued lizard 2 

Trachysaurus rugosus Stump-tailed lizard 1 



94 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

Varanidae: Number 

Varanus gouldii Gould's monitor 1 

Varanus griseus Gray monitor 1 

Varanus komodoensis Komodo dragon 1 

Varanus niloticus African monitor 1 

Varanus salvator Sumatran monitor 13 

OFHIDIA 

Boidae: 

Boa canina Green tree boa 1 

Boa cookii Cook's tree boa 1 

Constrictor constrictor Common boa 1 

Epicrates angulifer Cuban tree boa 3 

Epicrates cenchris Rainbow boa 11 

Epicrates striatus Haitian boa 2 

Ei-yx johni Indian sand boa 1 

Eunectes murinus Anaconda 1 

Tropidophia melanurus Cuban boa 1 

Pythonidae: 

Python amethystinus Amethystine python _ 1 

Python curtus Blood python 3 

Python molurus Indian python 4 

Python regius Ball python 1 

Python reticulatus Regal pj'thon 5 

Python sebae African rock python 3 

Python variegatus Carpet python 2 

Colubridae: 

Alsophis angulifer Jubo or culebra 1 

Boiga dendrophila Mangrove snake 1 

Coluber c. constrictor Black snake 1 

Drymarchon corais couperi Indigo snake 12 

Elaphe guttata Com snake 2 

Elaphe obsoleta confinis Southern pilot snake 1 

Elaphe o. obsoleta Pilot snake 5 

Elaphe quadrivittata Chicken snake 2 

Elaphe vulpina Fox snake 1 

Lampropeltis getulus hoylii Boyle's king snake 3 

Lampropeltis getulus floridana Florida king snake 3 

Lampropeltis g. getulus King snake 3 

Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki Holbrook's king snake 2 

Lampropeltis rhombomaculata Mole snake 1 

Liopeltis vernalis Smooth green snake 2 

Matrix cyclopion Water snake 10 

Matrix sp Water snake 10 

Pituophis catenifer Western bull snake 1 

Pituophis melanoleucus Bull snake 2 

Pituophis sayi Pine snake 1 

Storeria dekayi DeKay's snake 3 

Thamnophis sauritus Ribbon snake 3 

Thamnophis sirtalis concinnus Pacific garter snake 15 

Thamnophis s. sirtalis Ga,rter snake 2 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95 

Elapidae: Number 

Micrurus fulvius Coral snake 1 

Naja hannah King cobra 2 

Naja iripudians sumatrana Sumatran black-hooded cobra 1 

Naja tripudians (var.) Spectacled cobra 3 

Naja iripudians (var.) Siamese black-hooded cobra 3 

Notechis scutatus Australian tiger snake 1 

Crotalidae: 

Agkistrodon mokasen Copperhead 2 

Agkistrodon piscivorus Water moccasin 6 

Crotal us adamanteus Diamond-backed rattlesnake 1 

Crotalus cinerius Desert rattlesnake 1 

Crotalus horridus Banded rattlesnake 4 

Sistrurus catenatus catenatus Massasauga 1 

Sistrurus miliarius Pigmy rattlesnake 1 

Viperidae: 

Atheris chlorechis West African tree viper 2 

Bitis gabonica Gaboon viper 1 

TESTUDINATA 

Chelydidae: 

Chelodina longicollis Australian snake-necked turtle 3 

Chelys fimbriata Matamata turtle 1 

Hydromedusa tedifera South American snake-necked tur- 6 

tie. 

Platemys platycephala Flat-head turtle 1 

Platysternidae: 

Platy sternum megacephalum Large-headed Chinese turtle 2 

Pelomedusidae: 

Pelomedusa galeata Common African water-tortoise 2 

Podocnemis expansa South American river tortoise 1 

Kinosternidae: 

Kinosternon flavescens Musk turtle 1 

Kinosternon subrubrum Musk turtle 4 

Chelydridae: 

Chelydra osceola Osceola snapping turtle 1 

Chelydra rossignonii Rossignon's snapping turtle 1 

Chelydra serpentina Snapping turtle 4 

Macrochelys temminckii Alligator snapping turtle 1 

Testudinidae: 

Chrysemys pida Painted turtle 2 

Clemmys guttata Spotted turtle 1 

Clemmys muhlenbergii Muhlenberg's tortoise 1 

Cydemys amboinensis Malayan box turtle 18 

Deirochelys reticularia Chicken tortoise 1 

Geodemmys subtrijuga Siamese field turtle 1 

Geomyda spinosa Spiny hill tortoise 1 

Gopherus polyphemus Gopher tortoise 1 

Malademmys centrata Diamond-back terrapin 8 

Pseudemys concinna Cooter 5 

Pseudemys decussata Haitian terrapin 1 

Pseudemys elegans Cumberland terrapin 2 

Pseudemys floridana Florida terrapin 2 

Pseudemys rugosus Cuban terrapin 2 



96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Testudinidae — Continued. Number 

Terrapene Carolina Box tortoise 25 

Terrapene major Florida box turtle 2 

Testudo elephantina Aldabra tortoise 1 

Testudo emys Sumatran land tortoise 1 

Testudo ephippium Duncan Island tortoise 2 

Testudo hoodensis Hood Island tortoise 2 

Testudo tabulata South American tortoise 1 

Testudo torneri Soft-shelled land tortoise 4 

Testudo vicina Albemarle Island tortoise 1 

Trionychidae: 

Amyda ferox Soft-shelled turtle 8 

Trionyx cartilagineus Asiatic soft-shelled turtle 1 

Amphibia 

CAUDATA 

Salamandridae: 

Aneides lugubris Salamander 1 

Batrachoseps attenuatus Salamander 1 

Ensatina eschscholtzii Salamander 1 

Triturus pyrrhogaster Red-belLied Japanese newt 6 

Triturus viridescens Common newt 18 

Amphiumidae: 

Amphiuma means Blind eel or Congo snake 2 

Amphiuma tridactylum Blind eel or Congo snake 1 

Megalobatrachus japonicus Giant salamander 1 

Cryptobranchidae : 

Cryptohranchus alleganiensis Hellbender 8 

8ALIENTIA 

Brachycephalidae: 

Atelopus varius varius Yellow atelopus 2 

Discoglossidae: 

Bombina bombina Fire-bellied toad 1 

Dendrobatidae: 

Dendrobates auratus Arrow-poison frog 30 

Bufonidae: 

Bufo alvarius Green toad 1 

Bufo americanus Common American toad 2 

Bufo empusus Sapo de concha 15 

Bufo marinus Marine toad.. 3 

Bufo peltocephalus Cuban giant toad 9 

Bufo superciliosus Leaf toad 1 

Ceratophrydae: 

Ceratophrys varius Horned toad 2 

Hylidae: 

Hyla caerulea Australian tree frog 7 

Hyla cinerea Florida tree frog 1 

Hyla crucifer Tree frog 4 

Hyla septentrionalis Cuban tree frog 5 

Pipidae: 

Pipa americana Surinam toad 1 

Xenopussp Smooth-clawed frog 3 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97 

Ranidae: Number 

Rana catesbeiana Bull frog 1 

Rana damitans Green frog 1 

Rana sphenocephala Southern leopard frog 1 

Fishes 

Acanthopthalmus kuhlii Banded loach 6 

Anguilla rostrata Common eel 3 

Barbus sp 1 

Brachydanion rerio Zebra fish 2 

Corydoras aeneus Trinidad armored catfish 4 

Corydoras melanistius Armored catfish 

Eleclrophorus electricus Electric eel 

Helostotna temminckii Kissing gourami 

Hemigrammus unilineatus 

Hypostomus sp Armored catfish 

Kryptopterus bicirrhus Glass catfish 5 

Lebistes reticulatus Guppy 50 

Lepidosiren paradoxa South American lungfish 3 

Monocirrhus polyacanihus Leaf fish 3 

Platypoecilus maculalus Goldplaties 20 

Pristella riddlei 5 

Protopterus annectens African lungfish 2 

Plerophyllum scalare Angel fish 1 

Rasbora heteromorpha 3 

Trichogaster trichopterus Three-spot gourami 3 

Xiphophorus hellerii Swordtail 1 

Arachnids 

Eurypelma sp Tarantula 3 

Latrodecius mactans Black widow spider 4 

Insects 
Blabera sp Giant cockroach 100 

MoiiLUSKS 

Achatina variegata Giant land snail 6 

Respectfully submitted. 

W. M. Mann, Director. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 8 
KEPOKT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the 
activities of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1938 : 

WORK AT WASHINGTON 
REOOMPLTTATION 8 

The recomputation of solar-constant values under the direction of 
L. B. Aldrich, referred to in last year's report, was the main business. 
A considerable force of extra computers was employed on a job 
basis under grants-in-aid from John A. Roebling. Also a consider- 
able force of W. P. A. workers was assigned to the project. With 
the regular force and these extra workers the immense task is nearly 
completed. It is hoped to finish the entire recomputations and com- 
parisons of solar-constant results from all stations by January 1939, 
so as to make up a homogeneous series of daily values from 1923 
to the present time. 

STELI.AK SPECTRtTM ENERGY CURVES 

In 1922, 1923, 1928, and 1934, attempts were made, in cooperation 
with the Mount Wilson Observatory, to measure the distribution of 
energy in the spectra of some of the brighter stars. The measure- 
ments were made in the focus of the 100-inch reflecting telescope. 
Results of some value were reached in 1923 and 1928, using a pris- 
matic spectroscope and the radiometer. In 1934 it was attempted, 
in cooperation with Dr. Joel Stebbins, to observe at 10 wave lengths 
selected by Christiansen filters, employing a photoelectric cell. Un- 
fortunately, owing to the great inequality of sensitiveness of the cell 
for different wave lengths of radiation, these observations proved 
valueless. 

Since 1934 repeated attempts have been made at Washington to 
devise a radiation-measuring instrument with a black absorbing sur- 
face. We desired to attain sufficient sensitiveness to get good meas- 
urements with the Christiansen filters for stars as faint as third 
magnitude. In the opinion of able astronomers this would be a 
highly valuable accomplishment, indeed one of the most interesting 

99 

114728—39 8 



100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

for astronomy. It is to be hoped that when the 200-inch telescope 
becomes available such a sensitive measuring instrument may be used 
successfully with a prismatic or grating spectroscope, and with pho- 
tographic registration, so as actually to secure continuous spectral 
energy curves of the brighter stars. 

In our attempts to realize the highly sensitive measuring device, 
we tried for several months to perfect the kampometer, but it did 
not quite reach our demands. We then turned to the improvement 
of the galvanometer, hoping to use it to observe the indications of the 
delicate thermopile such as L. B. Clark now constructs for use in the 
Division of Radiation and Organisms. Our intention was to employ 
with the galvanometer the magnetic shield which was constructed for 
us about 18 years ago by the late Dr. Elihu Thomson of Lynn, and 
to insert therein, in highly evacuated space, a galvanometer of the 
Kelvin suspended magnetic system type. We hoped by high evacu- 
ation to be able to use a very light system at a time of single swing 
as high as 10 seconds, and that the sensitiveness would be found 
nearly proportional to the square of time of swing, even up to this 
long period. As the magnetic shield is very effective indeed, we at- 
tempted at first to use a galvanometer of only one pair of coils, with 
a single group of magnets. But while this arrangement is evidently 
the most sensitive possible, we found that what was gained in sensi- 
tiveness was more than lost in instability. Accordingly, we con- 
structed an astatic system with two opposed groups of magnets sepa- 
rated but little over 10 millimeters between centers, and two pairs of 
correspondingly small coils, making a combined resistance of about 
17 olims. 

Preliminary trials at Washington indicated a high sensitiveness, 
but with the mechanical and electrical disturbances unavoidable in 
a city, we could not tell whether the stability was adequate. To test 
this question, Messrs. Abbot and Hoover observed, by invitation, with 
this galvanometer at John A. Roebling's estate in Florida in March 
1938. They found a 10-second single swing easily practicable; the 
proportionality of sensitiveness to the square of time of swing nearly 
followed up to that period, and the stability was so good that readings 
at a scale distance of 5 meters seemed likely to disclose vibrations only 
rarely exceeding 1 millimeter in amplitude. 

Tests with the thermopile and candle flame seemed to indicate 
that the new combination would prove between 10 and 100 times 
as effective as the combination employed by Dr. Abbot in 1928. Mr. 
Hoover made a new and better magnetic system after returning 
from Florida. The excellent showing of the galvanometer is almost 
wholly due to his work, though based on the extensive researches of 
Messrs. Abbot and Fowle about the years 1898 to 1900. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101 

In May 1938 Mr. Hoover went to Mount Wilson to prepare for 
new measurements of the energy in the spectra of the stars, and to 
make studies of the growth of plants in monochromatic rays, taken 
from sunlight by Christiansen filters. It may be said, by anticipa- 
tion, that in both researches Mr. Hoover has been able to make 
gratifying progress, as will be reported next year. It may even be 
said now with confidence that when the 200-inch telescope is avail- 
able it will be possible to get excellent continuous stellar spectrum 
energy curves for all types of stars. Thus far Mr. Hoover has suc- 
ceeded in measuring electric currents with his 17-ohm galvanometer 
of 1 X 10"^2 amperes, and to observe the rays of a candle flame on a 
thermoelement of 1 millimeter diameter from a candle distance of 
150 meters. 

ATMOSPHERIC TURBIDITY AND MOISTUEE APPARATUS 

In 1930 we constructed a special instrument, containing a spectro- 
bolometer, an Angstrom pyrheliometer, and a pyranometer, for the 
use of Mr. Moore in testing the availability of mountain sites in and 
near Africa for solar-constant work. With this portable instrument 
he could determine the total precipitable water in the atmospheric 
path of sun rays, as well as total intensity of solar radiation, and 
the brightness of the sky. This instrument came to the attention of 
the United States Weather Bureau, and was considered to be of much 
promise for their work. At the request of Chief Gregg, the Smith- 
sonian Institution has undertaken to duplicate it for the Weather 
Bureau, and the instrument maker, Mr. Kramer, is at work thereon. 

UTirjZING SOLAR KADIATTON 

Some further progress has been made by Dr. Abbot on devices for 
utilizing solar radiation. While in Florida, in March, he tried out 
with gratifying results a solar flash boiler, a solar water distiller, 
and a toy solar cooker. 

FIELD STATIONS 

Several considerations led to the abandonment of the Mount St. 
Katherine solar-radiation station in December 1937. The isolation of 
the station made its occupation hazardous. Its remoteness and isola- 
tion made its upkeep costly. An intestinal infection attacked all of 
the observers and proved stubborn to cure. The likelihood of a great 
European war made it probable that the observatory might be wholly 
cut off from Washington. The station was abandoned with regret, 
for meteorologically it had proved to be excellent, perhaps equal to 
Montezuma. 



102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Instead of St. Katherine, it was decided to locate a station in south- 
western New Mexico. This location seemed to partake of the clima- 
tological advantages of Old Mexico. Our other stations, both north- 
ern and southern, have all had relatively bad observing conditions 
in the months December to March. In Old Mexico and southwestern 
New Mexico, on the contrary, these months promise to be the most 
cloudless of all. 

A. F. Moore has located the new station on Burro Mountain near 
Tyrone, N. Mex., at a level of about 8,000 feet. The living conditions 
there seem to give promise of being quite as attractive as at Table 
Mountain. It lies not far from four fair-sized towns, the people of 
the vicinity are helpful and pleasant, and the United States Forest 
Service is exceedingly helpful and welcoming regarding the project. 
It is hoped to be ready to observe in October or November 1938. 

With two pleasant stations besides Washington in the United 
States, and one more isolated one in Chile, it seems feasible to rotate 
the observers hereafter without undue privation. 

The stations at Table Mountain and Montezuma have continued 
to observe the solar constant of radiation daily, when possible. 

ULTRAVIOLET SOLAR RADIATION 

Having failed thus far to obtain sufficient financial support to oper- 
ate enough solar-constant stations to determine adequately the varia- 
tion of the sun on every day of the year, as referred to in last year's 
report, it has been hoped to accomplish in some other way a program 
of measuring solar variation as influencing weather. Several possi- 
bilities exist. For recent years, in America, England, and Australia, 
records of atmospheric ionization at great altitudes are being obtained 
by several institutions and individuals. The ionization is thought 
to be dependent on solar radiation, far in the ultraviolet spectrum, at 
wave lengths less than 1000 angstroms. Results seem to indicate 
that these rays vary over a great range, perhaps as much as 500 
percent. It is hoped that these measurements may be correlated 
with weather. 

Inasmuch, however, as both theory and our preliminary observa- 
tions indicate that the variation of the sun, which is only of the 
order of 1 or 2 percent in the total radiation, may be as great as 
15 or 20 percent at ultraviolet wave lengths about 3300 angstroms, 
it was hoped that automatic sounding balloon methods might be 
developed whereby the variation of the sun's radiation in this part 
of the ultraviolet spectrum could be measured accurately enough for 
weather predicting. To this end the Smithsonian Institution made 
two grants in aid to Dr. Brian O'Brien, of Rochester, N. Y. Dr. 
O'Brien, aided also by the University of Rochester and by several 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103 

generous manufacturing corporations, has gone far to develop highly 
ingenious methods and apparatus for measuring solar variation in 
the ultraviolet from sounding balloons, automatically observed on 
the ground through radio transmission of signals. He hopes soon 
to be in position to compare this type of results with those of solar- 
constant work reported from our stations. 

PUBLICATION 

Dr. Abbot published a resume of his studies on solar variation and 
weather changes in a number of the Czechoslovak scientific journal 
concerning physics, prepared in honor of Dr. S. Hanzlik. A small 
number of separates of this resume are available for distribution if 
solicited by interested parties. 

PERSONNEL 

F. E. Fowle, who entered the service of the Astrophysical Observa- 
tory in 1894, having been retired for disability, W. H. Hoover, who 
has heretofore had special status with the Astrophysical Observatory, 
as a field director, was promoted to the position of Senior Astro- 
physicist on October 16, 1937. 
Respectfully submitted. 

C. G. Abbot, Director. 
The Secretaet, 

Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 9 

KEPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND 
ORGANISMS 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac- 
tivities of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during the year 
ended June 30, 1938 : 

The fundamental facts relating to plant growth and radiation have 
been fruitfully pursued by the Division during the year. Mr. Hoover, 
temporarily loaned for studies of radiation and photosynthesis, had 
been recalled for continuous work with the Astrophysical Observa- 
tory. To assist in these and other plant studies under Dr. Johnston's 
immediate direction. Dr. R. L. Weintraub was engaged. He de- 
veloped an improved method of measuring plant growth substances 
which are concerned in the bending of plants toward the light. A 
description of this method with data from a number of experiments 
is now ready for publication under the title, "An assay method for 
plant growth substances utilizing straight growth of the Avena 
coleoptile." Dr. Weintraub is continuing the earlier work of Dr. 
Johnston on the growth of the first internode in light of very low in- 
tensities and in different spectral regions. It is interesting to note 
that the plant responds to light intensities far below those which can 
be detected by the most sensitive thermocouples. 

Messrs. Johnston, McAlister, Weintraub, Clark, and Fillmen have 
been preparing a new automatic apparatus for measuring and record- 
ing photosynthesis continuously. It is similar in nature to the de- 
vice employed by Dr. McAlister, to which reference was made in last 
year's report, but with the added feature of continuous automatic 
photographic registration. This new apparatus was nearly ready for 
use at the close of the fiscal year. It is to be used with a powerful 
light source, comprising a 60-inch army searchlight, loaned by the 
War Department, and a battery of mirrors at the focus of the beam 
so placed that slender plants such as wheat, or others, may be il- 
luminated strongly from all sides. Experiments of many kinds re- 
lating to photosynthesis and the formation of chlorophyll are about 
to be taken up with this efficient outfit. Another piece of apparatus 
has been developed for the determination of chlorophyll. Very good 
results can be obtained with concentrations as low as 0,1 mg chloro- 
phyll per liter of solution. This equipment is being used in con- 

105 



106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

nectioii with the CO2 absorption studies and the formation of 
chlorophyll. 

Among other projects, photosynthesis in algae is to be investigated. 
In preparation for this research Dr. Johnston and Dr. Meier have 
been testing various methods of producing thin coatings of living 
algae on rods and plates, without the interposition of water layers 
between the algae and such light source as may be employed. Success- 
ful cultures of this sort have been made. 

Dr. Meier had a very serious fall in early December 1937 and was 
incapacitated until June 1938, but returned to work part time in June 
and full time in July. Prior to her accident she made further ob- 
servations on stimulation of multiplication of algae by ultraviolet 
rays which in larger dosage would be lethal. Wliile the results ob- 
tained certainly point strongly to a positive conclusion, further 
work must be done before publication. 

Dr. Johnston has continued investigations on mixtures of artificial 
lights suitable to promote fully satisfactory plant growth under 
laboratory conditions. 

Dr. McAlister has made prolonged further studies on the depend- 
ence of the induction periods in the photosynthesis of wheat on the 
length of previous dark exposures. In addition, an uptake of CO2 by 
leaves in darkness has been discovered which has an important bear- 
ing on photosynthesis. These phenomena are held by students of 
photosynthesis to be of the greatest possible interest in obtaining an 
understanding of the fundamental reactions which occur in plants 
under the influence of light. Until the perfection of the teclmique by 
Dr. McAlister, and his introduction of spectroscopy, as a highly 
sensitive means of instantaneously measuring carbon dioxide assimila- 
tion, the subject was practically beyond the possibility of investiga- 
tion. But during the past year he has accumulated great numbers 
of results which are the foundation of a paper he will shortly publish 
under the title: "Chlorophyll — CO2 ratio during photosynthesis," 
which it is believed will be of the very highest interest to students of 
this subject. As heretofore the teclmical work of the Division has 
been ably promoted by Messrs. Clark and Fillmen. 

As noted under the Report on the Astrophysical Observatory, Mr. 
Hoover has made interesting experiments at Mount Wilson, Calif., on 
growing plants to maturity in narrow ranges of spectrum selected 
from the sunbeam. This work will be described in next year's report. 

The following publications have been issued from the Division 
during the fiscal year : 

Johnston, Eabl S. 

Phototropic response and CO2 assimilation of plants in polarized light. 
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 96, No. 3. 1937. 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107 

Growth of Avena coleoptile and first internode in different wave-length 

bands of the visible spectrum. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 96, No. 6, 

1937. 
Plant growth in relation to wave-length balance. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., 

vol. 97, No. 2, 1938. 
Sun rays and plant life. Smithsonian Ann. Rep. 193G, pp. 353-371, 1937. 
Meier, Florence E. 

Reactions to ultraviolet radiation. Smithsonian Ann. Rep. 1936, pp. 373- 

382, 1937. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

C. G. Abbot, Director, 
The Secretary, 

/Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 10 

KEPORT ON THE LIBRARY 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1938: 

THE LIBRARY 

The library, or library system, of the Smithsonian comprises 45 
libraries. Chief among these are the Smithsonian deposit in the Li- 
brary of Congress, which is the main library of the Institution, and 
the libraries of the United States National Museum and the Bureau of 
American Ethnology. The others are the Langley aeronautical li- 
brary, also deposited in the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian 
office library, the libraries of the Astrophysical Observatory, Freer 
Gallery of Art, National Collection of Fine Arts, National Zoological 
Park, Radiation and Organisms, and the sectional libraries, 35 in 
number, of the National Museum. 

PERSONNEL 

Two changes occurred in the library staff. Mrs. George C. Rodgers, 
senior stenographer, withdrew from Government service, and the po- 
sition was reclassified to that of assistant clerk-stenographer and filled 
by the appointment of Miss Nancy Alice Link, through transfer from 
the Bureau of Internal Revenue. The assistant messenger, Joseph 
A. Salat, Jr., resigned and Clyde E. Bauman was transferred to the 
vacancy from the United States Naval Academy. The temporary 
assistants were Mrs. Gladys S. Wilson, Miss Margaret Kober, and 17 
employees assigned to the library by the Works Progress Administra- 
tion. 

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS 

The exchange work of the library was noteworthy. It brought to 
the receiving room 22,800 packages by mail and 2,464 by the Inter- 
national Exchange Service — a total of 25,264, each containing one 
or more publications. Besides several generous sendings from the 
United States, such as those from the American Antiquarian Society, 
the Paleontological Institution, and the University of Washington, 
there were many from abroad, the largest being from the Koninklijke 

109 



110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Akademie van Wetenschappen, Amsterdam; Ucena Spolecnost 
Safarikova, Bratislava; Academie Royale des Sciences de Belgique, 
Brussels; Polskiego Towarzystwa Przyrodnikow im. Kopernika, 
Lwow; Royal Society of Victoria, Melbourne; Naturforscher-Verein 
zu Riga, Riga ; Kgl. Norske Videnskabernes Selskab, Trondheim ; and 
the universities of Basel, Cambridge, and Lille. 

The 6,037 dissertations received represented an increase of 670 over 
the year before. Of these, 2,265 were added to the Smithsonian 
deposit, 2,971, having to do largely with medical subjects, were turned 
over to the Surgeon General's library, and the rest, being duplicates, 
were sent, under a special exchange arrangement, to Columbia Uni- 
versity. They came from the universities of Basel, Berlin, Bern, 
Bonn, Breslau, Cornell, Erlangen, Freiburg, Giessen, Greifswald, 
Heidelberg, Jena, Kiel, Konigsberg, Louvain, Lund, Lwow, Marburg, 
Neuchatel, Pennsylvania, Rostock, Strasbourg, Tiibingen, Utrecht, 
Wiirzburg, and Ziirich, and the technical schools of Berlin, Braun- 
schweig, Delft, Dresden, Karlsruhe, and Ziirich. 

The number of letters — 2,403 — prepared by the staff in course of 
the exchange and other work of the library was larger than in 1937, 
as was the number of publications obtained by special request to 
meet needs in the various libraries of the Institution. The latter 
totaled 5,315, more than one-half of which were for the library of 
the National Museum, In connection with the effort to provide by 
exchange publications essential to the work of the Smithsonian and 
its bureaus, the library staff handled 582 want cards and arranged for 
285 new exchanges. It should be said, however, in passing, that 
hundreds of the volumes and parts in question were found among 
the duplicates in the west stacks, a further indication of the value 
of this collection and of the effectiveness of the organization to which 
it has been subjected. 

Finally, it is a pleasure to report that the year marked the return 
to stock of numerous sendings, both large and small, of Smithsonian 
publications from libraries outside of Washington where they were 
duplicates. Thus the supply available for exchange use was again 
substantially increased. 

GIFTS 

The gifts during the year were numerous. From the Geophysical 
Laboratory came 3,312 miscellaneous publications, from the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science 653, and from the Ameri- 
can Association of Museums 209, among them a goodly number of 
scientific serials that were especially welcome. 

From the libraries of the late Dr. Walter Hough and Dr. Fred- 
erick V. Coville, former members of the scientific staff, came, through 
Mrs. Hough and Mrs. Coville, many important books and pamphlets. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111 

And from Mrs. Charles D. Walcott and the scientists of the Institu- 
tion, notably Secretary Abbot and Assistant Secretary Wetmore, even 
more publications than usual were received. 

But perhaps the outstanding gift of the year was made by Mrs. 
William Woodville Rockhill, widow of the one-time American Min- 
ister to China. This consisted of 1,186 volumes and pamphlets, 
chiefly in Chinese and other Eastern languages, on the history and 
culture of China. It was assigned, naturally, to the library of the 
Freer Gallery of Art, where it supplements in a notable way the 
Eockhill and other collections, as these supplement appreciably, 
for research purposes, the Division of Orientalia in the Library of 
Congress. 

Other gifts included the following : La Mostra del Tintoretto, Cata- 
logo delle Opere, from Count Urbano de Bellegarde; Pintura Mexi- 
cana (1800-1860), by Roberto Montenegro, from Angel Rosas; Tur- 
key in Pictures, from his Excellency, the Turkish Ambassador to 
the United States; Description Greometrique Detaillee des Alpes 
Frangaises, Annexe du Tome Second and Annexe du Tome Dixieme 
(2 copies of each), by Paul Helbronner, from Le Marechal Petain; 
reprint of The Cactaceae, in 4 volumes, by N. L. Britton and J. N. 
Rose (Publication No. 248 of the Carnegie Institution of Washing- 
ton), from The Cactus and Succulent Society of America; Nikola 
Tesla, a volume issued on the occasion of his 80th birthday, from 
La Societe pour la Fondation de I'Institut Nikola Tesla ; A Catalogue 
of the Pictures and Drawings in the Collection of Frederick John 
Nettlefold, Volumes III-IV, by C. Reginald Grundy and F. Gordon 
Roe, from Frederick John Nettlefold; Mollusques Terrestres et 
Fluviatiles d'Asie-Mineure (Voyage Zoologique d'Henri Gadeau de 
Kerville en Aise-Mineure), by Louis Germain, from Henri Gadeau de 
Kerville; The Works of Edwin Rowland Blashfield, with an Intro- 
duction by Royal Cortissoz, from Mrs. Grace Hall Blashfield; The 
Geology of Pennsylvania, Volume I and Volume II, Parts 1 and 2, by 
Henry Darwin Rogers, from John W. Berry for the family of the 
late R. D. Lacoe, who, before Ms death in 1900, presented the Institu- 
tion with a valuable collection of coal fossils and his library on 
paleozoology ; The Birds of Tropical West Africa, Volume IV, by 
David Armitage Bannei-man, from The Crown Agents for the Col- 
onies, London; Captains and Mariners of Early Maryland, by Dr. 
Raphael Semmes, from the author; Complete Self -Instructing Li- 
brary of Practical Photography, in 10 volumes, edited by S. B. 
Schriever, from Mrs. A. B. Stebbins ; Automobilens Historia, by John 
Neren, from the author ; 15 books and pamphlets on various subjects, 
including Historia de la Medicina en el Uruguay, Volumes 1-2, by 
Rafael SchiafRno, and Historia de la Dominacion Espaiiola en el 
Uruguay, Volumes 1-3, by Francisco Bauza, from Dr. Rafael Schiaf- 



112 



ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



fino; Art and Archaeology Abroad, by Dr. Kalidas Nag, from the 
author; Old New York from the Battery to Bloomingdale, etchings 
by Eliza Greatorex, text by M. Despard, from Mrs. Walter S. Pratt, 
Jr. ; Interpretive History of Flight, by M. J. B. Davy, from the author ; 
The Americana Annual for 1937 and 1938, from the editor; The 
Great Chain at West Point and Other Obstructions Placed in the 
Hudson River during the War of the Revolution, by B. F. Fackenthal, 
Jr., from the author; The Phonetics of the Hottentot Language, by 
D. M. Beach, from the Research Grant Board, Johannesburg; Hints 
on Museum Education, by J. C. Basak, from the author; and The 
Tracy Genealogy, by Sherman Weld Tracy, from the author. 

SOME STATISTICS 

Accessions to the libraries: 



Volumes 



Pamphlets 
and charts 



Total 



Approximate 

holdings, 
June 30, 1938 



Astrophysical Observatory.- 

Bureau of American Ethnology 

Freer Gallery of Art— -. 

Langley Aeronautical 

National Collection of Fine Arts 

National Museum 

National Zoological Park 

Radiation and Organisms 

Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress 
Smithsonian office 

Total 



162 
395 
634 
45 
285 

2,639 
149 
17 

3,018 
106 



132 



69 

21 

271 

929 

21 

7 

1.974 

18 



294 
395 
703 
66 
556 

3,568 
170 
24 

4,992 
124 



9,491 

51, 395 

13, 377 

3,394 

6,340 

210, 710 

3,741 

269 

558, 070 

30, 627 



7,450 



3,442 



10, 892 



1 887, 414 



' These holdings do not, of course, include the thousands of volumes still incomplete, uncataloged, or 
unbound. 

The staff recorded 23,992 periodicals ; cataloged 6,449 publications ; 
prepared and filed 42,568 catalog and shelf list cards; borrowed 
2,239 volumes from the Library of Congress and other libraries ; and 
made 11,380 loans, 340 of which were to libraries outside the Smith- 
sonian system. They also advanced materially the index of exchange 
relations and the index of Smithsonian publications. The work on 
the union catalog was as follows : 

Volumes cataloged 3,439 

Pamphlets and charts cataloged 2,307 

New serial entries made 165 

Typed cards added to catalog and shelf list 5, 979 

Library of Congress cards added to catalog and shelf list 13,890 



OTHER ACTIVITIES 



The staff took down the exhibition set of Smithsonian publications 
that for 10 years had formed an imposing monument in the main hall 
and filed it away for future service. They brought together the 
archives set, checked it, and shelved it in a safe and convenient place. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113 

They supervised the 17 W. P. A. employees assigned to the library 
in such tasks as cleaning, repairing, and binding books, putting 
pamphlets into binders and lettering them, renovating plates and 
maps, typing cards, filling out acknowledgment forms, mounting 
aeronautical clippings, sorting and filing duplicates, and assisting 
with the cataloging. 

They effected special exchanges of duplicates with the libraries of 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Marine Biological Labora- 
tory, Woods Hole, Staten Island Association of Arts and Sciences, 
American Museum of Natural History, United States Patent Office, 
and the following colleges and universities: Brown, California, 
Catholic, Columbia, Duke, Harvard, Michigan, North Carolina, 
Pennsylvania, Princeton, Stanford, Williams, and Yale. By these 
transactions they placed many publications not wanted by the Insti- 
tution where they would be useful and obtained many that were 
needed in the collections. Among the latter were Forges and 
Furnaces in the Province of Pennsylvania, issued by the Pennsyl- 
vania Society of the Colonial Dames of America; The Cannon 
Collection of Italian Paintings of the Renaissance, mostly of the 
Veronese School, by J. Paul Richter; The African Republic of 
Liberia and the Belgian Congo, Volume II, edited by Richard P. 
Strong; A Guide to the History and Historic Sites of Connecticut, 
in 2 volumes, by Florence S. M. Crofut; Practice of Tempera Paint- 
ing, and Materials of Medieval Painting, by Daniel V. Thompson; 
Eclipses of the Sun, third edition revised and enlarged, by S. A. 
Mitchell ; A Catalogue of the Epstean Collection on the History and 
Science of Photography and Its Applications Especially to the 
Graphic Arts, by Edward Epstean; Benjamin Franklin's Own Story, 
by Nathan G. Goodman; Roman Glass from Karanis, by Donald B. 
Harden; Annual Review of Biochemistry, Volume VII, edited by 
J. M. Luck and C. R. NoUer; and numerous volumes and parts of 
the Meddelelser om Gr0nland. 

The staff continued the revision of the files of society and engineer- 
ing publications in the natural history and technological libraries of 
the National Museum, thus making these important sets more avail- 
able for use. The work with the latter was expedited by the arrival 
of the steel shelving that had been ordered toward the close of 1937. 

They finished recataloging the sectional library of botany and 
began that of administration. 

And they spent even more time than usual identifying for the 
scientists of the Institution obscure citations found in the literature 
of their respective subjects, and providing data, including not a few 
bibliographies, for letters in answer to requests for information 
received from different parts of the country. 



114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

BINDING 

The allotment for binding was again very inadequate, permitting 
the libraries to bind only as follows: National Museum, 494 vol- 
umes; National Collection of Fine Arts, 45; Astrophysical Observa- 
tory, 36. The total, 575 volumes, was but a fraction of the number 
that, for the good of the collections, should have been bound. It 
is earnestly hoped that more funds can soon be made available for 
binding, that this interest of the Smithsonian libraries — an interest 
essential to their preservation and usefulness — may be provided for 
satisfactorily. In 1935 the average charge for binding was about 
$3.25 a volume, while in 1938 it had risen to approximately $5. This 
difference of $1.75 has woefully reduced the number of volumes that 
can be bound with the sums annually allowed for this purpose. 

Fortunately, the Freer Gallery of Art, with funds of its own for 
binding, was able to have 57 volumes bound. Fortunately, too, the 
Smithsonian Institution, taking advantage of the services of an 
expert binder and of two assistants assigned to it under the W. P. A., 
was able to have 414 volumes bound and 148 volumes and 994 pam- 
phlets repaired for several of its libraries. 

But there remain thousands of unbound volumes, especially in 
the National Museum, Bureau of American Ethnology, Astrophys- 
ical Observatory, and National Collection of Fine Arts. Most of 
the volumes are made up of serial parts. As many of these are in 
daily use, they are constantly running the risk of being damaged or 
destroyed. And it frequently happens that a part, once lost, cannot 
be replaced, particularly if it belongs to a foreign volume of limited 
issue, 

NEEDS 

The need of increased funds for binding has already been men- 
tioned. Other needs are only a little less urgent. They are as fol- 
lows : Two or more well-trained catalogers to work chiefly in the main 
library in the Natural History Building; another messenger to assist 
in the libraries in the Smithsonian Building and the Arts and Indus- 
tries Building; more shelf room for the library collections in all 
three of the principal buildings of the Institution. 

Kespectfully submitted. 

William L. Corbin, Librarian. 

Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 11 
KEPORT ON PUBLICATIONS 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi- 
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches 
under its administrative charge during the year ended June 30, 1938 : 

The Institution published during the year 12 papers in the series 
of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report, and pam- 
phlet copies of the 23 articles in the report appendix, and 2 special 
publications. 

The United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 4 bulle- 
tins, 1 separate from Bulletin 100, 1 volume of the Proceedings, and 
19 separates from Proceedings, volumes 84 and 85. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued one annual report and 
three bulletins. 

Of the publications there were distributed 129,478 copies, which 
included 87 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions 
to Knowledge, 27,223 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Mis- 
cellaneous Collections, 22,593 volumes and separates of the Smith- 
sonian Annual Reports, 4,200 Smithsonian special publications, 57,761 
volumes and separates of the National Museum publications, 16,569 
publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 67 publications 
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 8 publications of the Freer 
Gallery of Art, 20 annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 68 re- 
ports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and 882 reports of the 
American Historical Association. 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 91, there 
were issued 3 papers ; volume 96, 5 papers and title page and table of 
contents ; and volume 97, 4 papers, making 12 papers in all, as follows : 

VOLUME 91 

Reports on the collections obtained by the first Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea 
Expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep. 

No. 27. A new species of deep-sea fish, Argyropelecus antrorsospinus, of the 
family Sternoptichidae, by Leonard P. Schultz. 5 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3439.) July 
7, 1937. 

115 

114728—39 9 



116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

No. 28. New species of hydroids from the Puerto Rican region, by G. McLean 
Fraser. 7 pp., 2 pis. (Publ. 3443.) November 10, 1987. 

No. 29. A new genus of starfishes from Puerto Kico, by Austin H. Clark. 
7 pp., 1 pi. (Publ. 3481.) June 18, 1938. 

VOLTJME 90 

No. 1. Archeology of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, by Henry B. Collins, Jr. 
431 pp., 84 pis., 26 figs. (Publ. 3411.) August 9, 1937. 

No. 3. Phototropic response and CO2 assimilation of plants in polarized light, 
by Earl S. Johnston. 7 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3440.) July 12, 1937. 

No. 4. Indian sites below the falls of the Rappahannock, Virginia, by David I. 
Bushnell, Jr. 65 pp., 21 pis., 11 figs. (Publ. 3441.) September 15, 1937. 

No. 5. The male genitalia of orthopteroid insects, by R. E. Snodgrass. 107 
pp., 42 figs. (Publ. 3442.) September 25, 1937. 

No. 6. Growth of Avena coleoptile and first internode in different wave- 
length bands of the visible spectrum, by Earl S. Johnston. 19 pp., 4 flgs. 
(Publ. 3444.) November 6, 1937. 

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3450.) 

VOLTJME 97 

No. 1. Preliminary report on the Smithsonian Institution-Harvard University 
archeological expedition to northwestern Honduras, 1936, by William Duncan 
Strong, Alfred Kidder II, and A. J. Drexel Paul, Jr. 120 pp., 16 pis., 32 figs. 
(Publ. 3445.) January 17, 1938. 

No. 2. Plant growth in relation to wave-length balance, by Earl S. Johnston. 
18 pp., 4 pis. (Publ. 3446.) January 12, 1938. 

No. 3. Middle Cambrian fossils from Pend Oreille Lake, Idaho, by Charles 
Elmer Resser. 12 pp., 1 pi. (Publ. 3447.) January 3, 1938. 

No. 4. The feeding mechanism of adult Lepidoptera, by John B. Schmitt. 
28 pp., 12 figs. (Publ. 3448.) January 10, 1938. 

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS 

Report for 1936. — The complete volume of the Annual Report of 
the Board of Regents for 1936 was received from the Public Printer 
in October 1937. 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show- 
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 
ending June 30, 1936. xiv-f 446 pp., 122 pis., 26 text figs. (Publ. 3405.) 

The appendix contained the following papers : 

Astronomy in Shakespeare's time and in ours, by C. G. Abbot. 

The size and age of the universe, by Sir James Jeans. 

The earth, the sun, and sunspots, by Loring B. Andrews. 

Northern lights, by A. S. Eve. 

Radioactivity and atomic theory, by Lord Rutherford. 

The cryogenic laboratory at Leiden, by Robert Guillien. 

Form, drift, and rhythm of the continents, by W. W. Watts. 

Core samples of the ocean bottom, by Charles Snowden Piggot. 

Some new aspects of evolution, by W. P. Pycraft. 

What is the meaning of predation? by Paul L. Errington. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117 

The gorillas of the Kayonsa region, Western Kigezi, SW. Uganda, by 

Capt. C. R. S. Pitman. 
The vampire bat : A presentation of undescribed habits and review of 

its history, by Raymond L. Ditmars and Arthur M. Greenhall. 
Some of the commoner birds of Ceylon, by Casey A. Wood. 
The wax palms, by Miriam L. Bombard. 

Significance of shell structure in diatoms, by Paul S. Conger. 
Some aspects of the plant virus problem, by Kenneth M. Smith. 
Sun rays and plant life, by Earl S. Johnston. 
Reactions to ultraviolet radiation, by Florence E. Meier. 
Aerial photography, by Capt. H. K. Baisley. 
Easter Island, Polynesia, by Henri Lavachery. 
The Eskimo archeology of Greenland, by Therkel Mathiassen. 
Petroglyphs of the United States, by Julian H. Steward. 
The history of the crossbow, illustrated from specimens in the United 

States National Museum, by C. Martin Wilbur. 

Report for 1937. — The report of the Secretary, which included the 
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents, 
and will form part of the annual report of the Board of Regents to 
Congress, was issued in January 1938. 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report 
of the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 
1937. 128 pp., 7 pis., 1 fig. (Publ. 3449.) 

The report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press 
at the close of the year. 

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 

Explorations and field work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1937. 122 pp., 
123 figs. (Publ. 3480.) April 9, 1938. 

Radio Program Folders, "The World is Tours." Edition of 200,000 distributed 
by the Office of Education, United States Department of the Interior. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during 
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser. 
There were issued 1 annual report, 4 bulletins, and 1 separate from 
Bulletin 100, 1 volume of the Proceedings, and 19 separates from 
Proceedings volumes 84 and 85, as follows : 

MUSEUM EEPOET 

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum 
for the year ended June 30, 1937. iii+130 pp. January 1938. 

PKOCEEDINQS : VOLUME 84 

Complete volume : 

Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Vol. 84, viii+606 pp., 
80 pis., 34 figs. 



118 ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Separates : 

No. 3017. Revision of the North American species of ichneumon-flies of the 
genus Exetastes Gravenhorst. By R, A. Cushman. Pp. 243-312, pis. 16-21. 
July 3, 1937, 

No. 3019. Moths of the genus Rupela (Pyralididae: Schoenobiinae). By Carl 
Heinrich. Pp. 355^88, pis. 22-33. July 3, 1937. 

No. 3021. Observations on the birds of West "Virginia. By Alexander Wet- 
more. Pp. 401-441. August 24, 1937. 

No. 3022. Annotated list of West Virginia mammals. By Remington Kellogg. 
Pp. 443-479. October 7, 1937. 

No. 3023. On the detailed skull structure of a crested hadrosaurian dinosaur. 
By Charles W. Gilmore. Pp. 481-491, figs. 29-34. October 12, 1937. 

No. 3024. Hydrocorals of the North Pacific Ocean. By Walter Kenrick 
Fisher. Pp. 493-554, pis. 34-76. March 8, 1938. 

No. 3025. A giant new species of fairy shrimp of the genus Branchinecta 
from the State of Washington. By James E. Lynch. Pp. 555-562, pis. 77-80. 
December 3, 1937. 

No. 3026. New species of moths of the family Notodontidae in the United 
States National Museum. By William Schaus. Pp. 563-584. December 29, 
1937. 

Title-page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-viii, 585-606. June 

18, 1938. 

VOLUME 85 

Separates : 

No. 3027. On some onychophores from the West Indies and Central America. 
By Austin H. Clark. Pp. 1-5. November 5, 1937. 

No. 3028. Synopsis of the beetles of the Chilean genus Phytholaema (Scara- 
baeidea: Melolonthinae). By Lawrence W. Saylor. Pp. 5-11, fig. 1. December 
3, 1937. 

No. 3029. Redescription of the capelin Mallotus catervarius (Pennant) of 
the North Pacific. By Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 13-20. December 2, 1937. 

No. 3030. A Miocene booby and other records from the Calvert formation of 
Maryland. By Alexander Wetmore. Pp. 21-25, figs. 2, 3. January 14, 1938. 

No. 3031. Another fossil owl from the Eocene of Wyoming. By Alexander 
Wetmore. Pp. 27-29, figs. 4, 5. January 17, 1938. 

No. 3032. Descriptions of new fishes obtained by the United States Bureau 
of Fisheries steamer Aliaiross, chiefly in Philippine and adjacent waters. By 
Henry W. Fowler, Pp. 31-135, figs. 6-61. May 23, 1938. 

No. 3033. Evidence of Triassic insects in the Petrified Forest National Monu- 
ment, Arizona, By M. V. Walker. Pp. 137-141, pis. 1-4. June 14, 1938. 

No. 3034. Review of the annelid worms of the family Nephtyidae from the 
Northeast Pacific, with descriptions of five new species. By Olga Hartman. 
Pp. 143-158, figs. 62-67, June 8, 1938. 

No, 3036. Revision of the Nearctic leafhoppers of the tribe Errhomenellini 
(Homoptera: Cicadellidae). By P. W. Oman. Pp. 163-180, pis. 5, 6. May 27, 
3938. 

No. 3037. A new genus and two new species of the dipterous family Phoridae. 
By Charles T, Greene. Pp. 181-185, fig. 69. June 27, 1938, 

No. 3038. A new genus and two new species of cottoid fishes from the 
Aleutian Islands. By Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 187-191, fig. 70. May 12, 1938. 

BUIXETIN8 

No. 166. The oxystomatous and allied crabs of America. By Mary J. Rathbun. 
vi-f 278 pp., 86 pis., 47 figs, October 14, 1937. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119 

No. 168. Nearctic Collembola, or springtails, of the family Isotomidae. By 
J. W. Folsom. iii+144 pp., 39 pis. July 1, 1937. 

No. 169. The Fort Union of the Crazy Mountain Field, Montana, and its 
mammalian fauna. By George Gaylord Simpson, x+387 pp., 10 pis., 80 figs. 
August 21, 1937. 

No. 171. The Pleistocene vertebrate fauna from Cumberland Cave, Maryland. 
By James W. Gidley and C. Lewis Gaziu. vi+99 pp., 10 pis., 50 figs. May 5, 
1938. 

Separate from Bulletin 100 : 

Vol. 6, part 9. The tree snails of the genus Cochlostyla of Mindoro Province, 
Philippine Islands. By Paul Bartsch. Pp. 373-533, pis. 94-120. February 26, 
1938. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the immediate 
direction of the editor, Stanley Searles. During the year one annual 
report and three bulletins were issued as follows : 

Fifty-fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1936-1937. 9 pp. 

Bulletin 115. Journal of Rudolph Friederich Kurz. Edited by J. N. B. Hewitt. 
382 pp., 48 pis. 

Bulletin 116. Ancient caves of the Great Salt Lake region. By Julian H. 
Steward. 131 pp., 1 map, 9 pis., 48 figs. 

Bulletin 117. Historical and ethnographical material on the Jivaro Indians. 
By M. W. Stirling. 148 pp., 1 map, 37 pis., 6 figs. 

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are 
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by 
the act of incorporation of the association. 

The report for 1933 (Writings on American History) and the 
report for 19'36, volume 1, were issued during the year. The report 
for 1937 and Writings on American History, 1934 and 1935, were in 
press at the close of the year. 

REPORT or THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN 

REVOLUTION 

The manuscript of the Fortieth Annual Report of the National 
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to 
Congress, in accordance with law, December 3, 1937. 

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING 

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian 
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the 



120 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Government bureaus under the administration of the Institution were 
virtually used up at tlie close of the year. The appropriation for 
the coming year ending June 30, 1939, totals $67,000, allotted as 
follows : 

Smithsonian Institution $17, 000 

National Museum 29, 000 

Bureau of American Ethnology 12, 000 

International Exchange Service 100 

National Zoological Park 100 

Astrophysical Observatory 400 

American Historical Association 8,000 

National Collection of Fine Arts 400 

Respectfully submitted. 

W. P. True, Editor. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF 
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH- 
SONIAN INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1938 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report 
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with 
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government 
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution. 

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND 

The orginal bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d— 
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the 
claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the 
fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the 
lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the 
amount of $550 000. 00 

Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from 
various sources chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income 
from which may be used for the general work of the Institution. 

To these gifts has been added capital from savings on income, 
gain from sale of securities, etc., bringing the total endowment 
for general purposes to the amount of 1, 150, 703. 76 

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the 
income of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested 
and stand on the books of the Institution as follows : 

Abbott, William L., fund, bequest to the Institution $101, 108. 02 

Arthur, James, fund. Income for investigations and study of sun 

and lecture on the sun 39 ggg ^3 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to investi- 
gate fauna of countries other than the United States 49, 719. 73 

Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird__ 14, 225. 49 
Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the 

Zoological Park yg^ gg 

Canfield collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfleld 

collection of minerals 37 955 ^^ 

Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection 

and promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera 7, 669. 52 

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of 

Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks 27, 946. 29 

Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection 

of lighting objects q 522. 24 

Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., Library fund, for care of Hitchcock Agro- 

stological Library ^ -j^qq g^ 

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact 

knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air— 100, 000. 00 

121 



122 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



Special research fund, gift, in form of real estate $20, 946. 00 

Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove 15, 034. 83 

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of 
art for the use of, and benefit of, the National Gallery of Art 18, 811. 84 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane 
Pell collection 2, 395. 18 

Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institu- 
tion when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000 71, 535. 89 

Eeid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of 
Asher Tunis 28, 981. 48 

Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling col- 
lection of minerals 119, 764. 35 

Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and 
chemistry 92, 791. 56 

Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and 
library 17, 796. 43 

Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop- 
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing 
results thereof 10, 883. 24 

Younger, Helen "Walcott, fund, held in trust 50, 112. 50 

Zerbee, Frances Brinckl6, fund, for endowment of aquaria 755. 28 

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en- 
dowment 836, 590. 91 

The capital funds of the Institution, except the Freer funds, are 
invested as follows: 



Fund 



United 

States 

Treasury 



Consoli- 
dated fund 



Separate 
fund 



Total 



Abbott, W. L 

Arthur, James 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy. 

Baird, Lucy H 

Barstow, Frederic D 

Canfield collection 

Casey, Thomas L 

Chamberlain 

Hillyer, Virgil 

Hitchcock, Library 

Hodgkins, specific -.. 

Special research 

Hughes, Bruce. 

Myer, Catherine W.. 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston 

Poore, Lucy T., and George W 

Reid, Addison T 

Roebling collection 

Rollins, Miriam and William 

Smithsonian unrestricted: 

Special 

Avery 

Endowment 

Habel.. 

Hachenberg 

Hamilton... 

Henry 

Hodgkins (general) 

Parent 

Rhees 

Sanford 

Springer 

Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux. 

Younger, Helen Walcott 

Zerbee, Frances Brincklfi 



Total. 



$100, 000 



$67, 800. 35 

39, 689. 13 

49, 719. 73 

14, 225. 49 

764.88 

37, 956. 16 

7, 669. 52 

27, 946. 29 

6, 522. 24 

1, 190. 87 



$33, 307. 67 



26, 670 
11,000 



15, 034. 83 
18,811.84 
2, 395. 18 
44, 865. 89 
13, 481. 48 
119,764.35 
83, 291. 56 



14,000 
""506' 



36, 953. 44 
211,871.12 



2,500 



116, 000 

727, 640 

590 

1,100 



3, 990. 90 

400.61 

1, 200. 21 

29, 993. 12 

1,211.48 

409. 47 

883. 41 

17, 796. 43 

10, 883. 24 



755.28 



20, 946. 00 



4, 500. 00 
"9,"500."6o' 
1, 400. 00 



50, 112. 50 



1, 000, 000 



867, 528. 50 119, 766. 17 



$101, 108. 02 
39, 689. 13 
49, 719. 73 

14, 225. 49 
754. 88 

37, 956. 16 
7, 669. 52 

27, 946. 29 
6, 522. 24 
1, 190. 87 

100, ooa 00 

20, 946. 00 

15, 034. 83 
18,811.84 

2, 395. 18 
71,535.89 
28, 981. 48 
119, 764. 35 
92, 791. 56 

1, 400. 00 

50, 953. 44 

211,871.12 

500.00 

3, 990. 90 

2, 900. 61 

1, 200. 21 

145, 993. 12 

728, 851. 48 

1,059.47 

1, 983. 41 

17, 796. 43 

10, 883. 24 

50, 112. 50 

755.28 



1, 987, 294. 67 



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
CONSOLIDATED FUND 

Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years 



123 



Fiscal year 


Capital 


Income 


Percentage 


1929 


$557, 056. 95 
578, 292. 40 
668, 069. 02 
712,156.86 
764,077.67 
754, 570. 84 
706, 765. 68 
723, 795. 46 
738, 858. 54 
867, 528. 50 


$28, 109. 56 
28, 908. 87 
28,518.07 
26, 142. 21 
28, 185. 11 
26, 650. 32 
26, 808. 86 
26,836.61 
33,819.43 
34, 679. 64 


5.04 
5.00 
4.27 
3.67 
3.68 
3.66 
3.79 
3.71 
4.57 
4.00 


1930 


1931 


1932 


1933 


1934 


1935 


1936 


1937 


1938 





FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND 

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave 
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects 
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by 
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave 
funds for the construction of a building to house the collection, and 
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and 
securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment 
fund for the operation of the gallery. From the above date to the 
present time these funds have been increased by stock dividends, 
savings of income, etc., to a total of $4,820,777.31. In view of the 
importance and special nature of the gift and the requirements of the 
testator in respect to it, all Freer funds are kept separate from the 
other funds of the Institution, and the accounting in respect to them 
is stated separately. 

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows : 

Court and grounds fund $540, 074. 68 

Court and grounds maintenance fund 135,782.17 

Curator fund 549 539 39 

Residuary legacy 3_ 595' 331] 07 

Total 4^ 820, 777. 31 

SUMMARY 

Invested endowment for general purposes $1, 150, 703. 76 

Invested endovpment for specific purposes other than Freer en- 
dowment 836, 590. 91 

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment 1, 987, 294. 67 

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes 4, 820, 777. 31 

Total invested endowment for all purposes 6, 808, 071. 98 



124 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS 

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as au- 
thorized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591 $1, 000, 000. 00 

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or 
market value at date acquired) : 

Bonds (25 different groups) $328,855.55 

Stocks (50 different groups) 551,406.56 

Real estate and first-mortgage notes 75, 053. 67 

Uninvested capital 31,978.89 

987, 294. 67 

Total investments other than Freer endowment 1, 987, 294. 67 

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market 

value at date acquired) : 

Bonds (47 different groups) $2,172,981.47 

Stocks (50 different groups) 2, 449, 317. 39 

Real estate first-mortgage notes 9, 0(X). 00 

Uninvested capital 189, 478. 45 

4,820,777.31 

Total investments 6, 808, 071. 98 

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL TEAR ^ 

Cash balance on hand June 30, 1937 $354, 294. 70 

Receipts : 

Cash income from various sources for general 

work of the Institution $65,636.52 

Cash gifts and contributions expendable for 

special scientific objects (not to be invested)- 51,032.50 

Cash gifts for special scientific work (to be 

invested) 44, 803. 58 

Cash income from endowments for specific use 
other than Freer endowment and from mis- 
cellaneous sources (including refund of tem- 
porary advances) 67,369.82 

Cash received as royalties from Smithsonian 

Scientific Series 42, 195. 73 

Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. 

(to be reinvested) 67,924.33 

Total receipts other than Freer endowment 338, 962. 48 

Cash receipts from Freer endowment, income 

from investments, etc $255, 651. 61 

Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. 

(to be reinvested) 544,896.45 

Total receipts from Freer endowment 800, 548. 06 

Total - 1, 493, 805. 24 



* This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative 
charge of the Institution. 



KEPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 125 

Disbursements : 

From funds for general work of the Institution : 

Buildings — care, repairs, and alterations $3, 235. 62 

Furniture and fixtures 225.84 

General administration ' 28, 540. 66 

Library 2, 224. 07 

Publications (comprising preparation, print- 
ing, and distribution) 19,314.78 

Researches and explorations 31, 446. 60 

$84, 987. 57 



From funds for specific use, other than Freer 
endowment : 

Investments made from gifts, from gain 
from sale, etc., of securities and from 
savings on income 72, 893. 20 

Other expenditures, consisting largely of re- 
search vpork, travel, increase and care of 
special collections, etc., from income of en- 
dowment funds and from cash gifts for 
specific use (including temporary ad- 
vances) 85, 822. 05 

Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call 
of securities, etc 43,772.69 

Cost of handling securities, fee of invest- 
ment counsel, and accrued interest on 

bonds purchased 1, 775. 50 

• 204, 263. 44 

From Freer endowment: 

Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries, 
field expenses, etc 57, 859. 40 

Purchase of art objects 170,039.96 

Investments made from gain from sale, etc., 
of securities 39, 559. 79 

Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call 

of securities, etc 350,924.67 

Cost of handling securities, fee of invest- 
ment counsel, and accrued interest on 

bonds purchased 19, 677. 72 

638, 061. 54 

Cash balance June 30, 1938 566, 492. 69 

Total 1, 493, 805. 24 



2 This includes salary of the Secretary and certain others. 



126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

EXPENDITURES FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, PUBLICATIONS, EXPLORA- 
TIONS, CARE, INCREASE, AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC. 

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution : 

Publications $J^' ^^t l^ 

Researches and explorations 31, 44b. bu ^^^ ^^ 

Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes : 

Researches and explorations ^8- ^O^^- J^ 

Care, increase, and study of special coUections 10, 191. 15 

IT ' .. , 1,620.96 

Publications __^___ ^^^ ^12. 89 

_ ^ , 120,974.27 

Total 

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and 

banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been contmued 

during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to 

$903.14. _ , . . ,1, 

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the 

following : 

Friends of Dr. Albert S. Hitchcock, for establishment and care of the 

HitchcoclJ Agrostological Library. 
Research Corporation, further contributions for research in radiation. 
John A. Roebling, further contributions for research in radiation. 
Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for purchase of certain specimens. 
Laurence L. Wilson, for archeological investigations in Texas. 
All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the 
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues 
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many mstances 
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are 
withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury. ^ 

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Insti- 
tution. Tin -P 

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress tor 
the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the 
Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year 1938 : 

$36, 330 

Salaries and expenses ^^ 2qo 

International Exchanges ^^ ^^^ 

American Ethnology ^ g^^ 

Astrophysical Observatory 

National Museum: $144 840 

Maintenance and operation Rnq'qao 

Preservation of collections ______ 754 220 

34 275 
National Collection of Fine Arts ^^' ^^^ 

Printing and binding ^25' OOO 

National Zoological Park ' 

„ , , 1, 248, 665 

Total 



EEPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 127 

The report of tlie audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed 

below : 

Septembek 1, 1938. 
Executive Committee, Board of Regents, 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. 

Sirs : Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1938, and certify the balance of cash 
on hand, including Petty Cash Fund, June 30, 1938, to be $568,392.69. 

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by the 
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances. 

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in the 
custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records. 

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of 
record and found them in agreement therewith. 

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the 
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1938, together with the authority 
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution's record of expenditures 
and found them to agree. 

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust 
fund. 

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the 
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for. 

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously 
furnished. 

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial 
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1938. 

Respectfully submitted. 

William L. Yabgeb & Co., 
William L. Taeoek, 

Certified Public Accountant. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Frederic A. Delano, 
R. Walton Moore, 
John C. Merriam, 

Executive Committee. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 

TO THE 

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1938 



ADVERTISEMENT 

The object of the General Appendix to the Annual Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific 
discovery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by 
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character 
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous 
correspondents of the Institution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law with memoirs Ulustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such 
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific 
progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by 
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely 
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, 
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool- 
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not 
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earher method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi- 
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and 
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report 
for 1938. 
128 



NEW CONCEPTIONS OF THE UNIVERSE AND OF MATTER 



By Gabriel Louis-Jaray 



The principles of physics appear to have been entirely reconstructed 
since the beginning of the twentieth century; because of experiments 
made during the past 30 years, new ideas prevail in this science; 
man is endeavoring to explain the universe, the atom, matter, light 
according to conceptions essentially different from those of the nine- 
teenth century. 

Louis de BrogUe asserts that the introduction into physics in 1900 
of the observations of Planck marks "one of the most important 
moments in the evolution of contemporaneous science." ^ In pro- 
moting that evolution a great number of French scholars have labored 
and the "Palace of Discovery" exhibits some of their researches. 

The efforts of physicists have been directed especially toward the 
study of the infinitely small and of the infinitely large: Astrophysi- 
cists have pushed their stellar observations to extraordinaiy distances 
and atomic physics has succeeded in revealing the orbit of an element 
of matter of which 10 milUon could be placed end to end in a milli- 
meter. In one case as in the other, these studies require the use of 
a laboratory equipment that can only be attained with an infinite 
amount of care, time, and money. This is one of the reasons which 
explain why so many years were needed to bring out the new dis- 
coveries, a glimpse of which we will try to present. 

The older physics was founded upon the existence of simple ele- 
ments, not transmutable, of which today there are 92. Alchemy and 
the older physics had failed in the search for unity in matter. 

The new physics considers that matter is composed of atoms all 
formed essentially of two parts: A nucleus, called a proton, around 
which revolves one or several corpuscles called electrons; the most 
simple element is hydrogen, of which the nucleus is formed of a single 
proton, around which a single electron revolves; by changing the 
number and the arrangement of these two elements of the atom we 
obtain the 92 simple elements. Efforts to transmute artificially 
from one element to another have succeeded. Thus the new physics 
is founded upon a real unity of matter. 

> Translated by permission from Mercure de France, vol. 283, No. 956, April 15, 1938. 

> Louis de Broglie: MatiSre et lumigre, Paris, Albin Michel, p. 27S, 1937. 

129 



130 ANITUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Nevertheless, there is uncertainty regarding the elements of this 
unity. It was thought until very recently that all atoms could be 
reduced to a nucleus composed of protons of positive electricity (each 
proton having a mass 2,000 times greater than an electron) and of 
electrons of negative electricity; the infinitely small atom appeared 
to be a sun in miniature with his planet or planets, and matter seemed 
composed of electrified particles oscillating in space; Thibaut, director 
of the institute of atomic physics of the University of Lyon, supposes, 
in order to visualize the atom, that the atom of hydrogen be as big 
as the whole of Paris; the nucleus would be the size of the Arc de 
Triomphe, the electron would be represented by a billiard ball situated 
in the Place de la Concorde and the remainder of the atom would be 
empty space.^ 

But in these last years, the profound studies of matter from every 
angle have more and more complicated the problem. Much uncer- 
tainty exists; in effect man has discovered: First, an electron of posi- 
tive electricity (called a positron), very difl^cult to obtain, which 
scarcely born, seems to unite with other particles; its size is similar 
to that of the negative electron, of which it is the brother; second, a 
particle called the neutron, thus named because it is not electrified; 
it is analogous to the proton in mass (2,000 times that of the electron) 
and sometimes unites with the nucleus of the atom; third, a fifth 
mysterious particle called a neutrino, because it is not electrified; it 
is neutral like the neutron, but with a mass as small as the electron, 
perhaps even smaller and almost negligible. 

Our impression is that the new physics is still in its infancy. Some 
physicists conceive of matter as electrified particles surrounded by 
empty space; Thibaud asks whether the neutron cannot be separated 
into two corpuscles, one positive and the other negative, and whether 
the "hypothetical neutrino," as he calls it, would not be the accom- 
paniment of such a breaking up.* Louis de Broghe looks with more 
favor on the breaking up of the proton into neutron and positive 
electron.* Thus, according to this last authority, the atom and 
matter are compounded of three elements: neutrons, not electrified, 
possessing nearly all the mass, negative electrons and positive elec- 
trons both of very small mass but electrified. 

Nevertheless, the new physics is plainly built upon the idea of the 
unity of matter. 

3 Physicists and astrophysicists know but little about empty space in the atom or between celestial 
bodies; they no longer believe in the "ether" of Fresnel. The astronomer Esclangon conceives space not as 
nothingness but as an entity, furrowed with radiations, composed perhaps of unknown elements which 
constitute a substratum of matter and radiation, capable of reactions similar to those of matter. 

* Thibaud, Jean, Vie et transmutation des atomes, p. 110, Paris, Albin Michel, 1937. 

• Matiere et lumiSre, p. 32. 



THE UNIVERSE AND MATTER — LOUIS- JARAY 131 

The new physics differs essentially from the old in other respects: 
The old mechanics had its dogmas; no velocity could be greater than 
that of Ught; no temperature could be less than zero degrees absolute; 
matter could not be destroyed, etc.; this last law is no longer recog- 
nized. Most of the outstanding physicists, such as Eddington, admit 
"the annihilation of matter" though it seems apparently supernatural. 
One experiment shows that pairs of positive and negative electrons 
are destroyed and produce pairs of photons of light, and in the opposite 
sense the photons ® produce pairs of positive and negative electrons ; 
the first case appears to be a "dematerialization" and the second case 
a "materialization," if the electrons are very small corpuscles but 
material parts of the atom and if the photons, that is the radiations, 
are not material corpuscles. Thus, says Einstein, in place of the 
principle of the conservation of matter and of the conservation of 
energy, it is necessary to substitute a simple principle of equivalence, 
that of the "conservation of something," but permitting the con- 
version of matter into energy and energy into matter. An example 
shows this new conception in concrete fasliion: An atom of helium 
is formed from four atoms of hydrogen ; but the mass of the helium is 
less by a small quantity than the sum of four atoms of hydrogen; 
this small quantity of matter has changed into energy and the clamp- 
ing together of the four atoms has liberated, it is said, 27 millions of 
volts; thus the loss of mass, or loss of matter, is compensated, accord- 
ing to the principle of equivalence, by the creation of energy. 

Thibaud interprets the results of such experiments as just described 
by conceiving that it is the continuous destruction of matter in the 
sun which liberates the luminous radiation.'' In any case one can 
imagine throughout the universe the transformation of atoms of 
sidereal bodies into radiation, as in radioactivity, or the transforma- 
tion of radiation iuto matter as in the experiment with photons of 
gamma rays. 

One difficulty remains: We do not know with certainty what the 
"photons" are, i. e., what light is. Louis de Broghe some 10 years 
ago conceived, and soon the new physics adopted, his "wave mechan- 
ics," applied first to light and then to all forms of energy. Newton 
asserted that fight consisted of an emission of corpuscles, Fresnel 
that it consisted of waves in a tenuous medium, the ether, the existence 
of which modern physicists doubt, Louis de Broghe reunited the two 
theories and declared that what happens is wave motion and emission 
at the same time, light waves and the projection of corpuscles of light, 
called photons. Passing from light to matter, he asserted that it is 
necessary to link together the idea of a wave with the movement of 
material particles of the atom; the displacement of the material 

• In the experiment, the photons are produced by a radiation called gamma rays. 
' Vie et transmutation das atomes, p. 55. 

11472S— 39 10 



132 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

corpuscles is associated with a certain periodic phenomenon called a 
wave. 

According to physicists, this generalized hypothesis to account for 
Ught and matter by wave mechanics explains all the recent experiments 
which the older physics failed to explain. But it makes a great 
mystery of physics; in a memoire, written in collaboration by Maurice 
de Broglie and Louis de Broglie, we read that the photon is a corpuscle 
of Ught whose nature remains very mysterious: Wave mechanics 
associates with motion "the consideration of a wave, without physical 
reaUty, but which can be predicted." ^ 

In any case, in the new physics, to the idea of the unity of matter 
and of the interchangeability of energy and matter, it is necessary to 
add the idea that, for light and for matter, one must always "consider 
both the corpuscular aspect and the wave aspect, bound together by 
the same general relations";' we come thus to the "unitarian theory 
of matter and of hght"; Louis de Broglie obtains this unity by the 
hypothesis that the neutrino, the last born of the constituent particles 
of matter, a corpuscle as small as or smaller than the electron and 
having "zero or at least a negligible charge in comparison with that 
of an electron," may be one of two constituents of the photon, the 
other being another corpuscle; he calls the neutrino a demiphoton;'° 
but if the neutrino has a "physical entity" the photon becomes a 
material corpuscle and not simply a corpuscle of immaterial light. 

We perceive, by these simple indications, to what extent the new 
physics is still mysterious and how it tends toward unity. It gives 
at times the impression that all material reahty, in the older sense of 
the word, has disappeared and in its place there is substituted that 
which one might call a unique substance having corpuscular atomic 
form and possessing interchangeable attributes of mass and of energy. 
It seems to lead thus to a kind of materialistic "monism," outside of 
which the mysteries of life and of mind exist. 

In short, the new physics is distinguished from the old in that it 
adopts conceptions which destroy the rigorous and universal determin- 
ism of mechanics and the principle of continuity. 

Atomic physics, it tells us, shows a discontinuous reahty, with 
abrupt transitions, which can only be explained "by the artifice of 
waves associated" with the motions of corpuscles. The introduction 
into physics, says Louis de Broghe, about 1900, by Planck, of the 
quantum of action and of the constant "h" is the origin of the change 
of view; let us then analyze each of these two new ideas. 

The "quanta" of Planck can be roughly explained by indicating 
that the radiation of atoms is not continuous; apparently the energy 

s Mati6re et lumiSre, pp. 69 and 60. 
• Matiere et lumiSre, p. 147. 
M Op. clt., p. 153 and following. 



THE UNIVERSE AND MATTER — LOUIS-JARAY 133 

accumulates until a certain quantity is stored up; when this quantity 
is reached, the radiation is emitted. Thus the radiation emanating 
from the atom is not considered as a continuous outpouring, but as a 
discontinuous emission of grains. Innumerable experiments since 
1900 have shown that this quantity, called a "quantum," is propor- 
tional to the frequency of the radiation and not to its intensity. 
Maurice de Broglie has invented an apparatus for measuring the veloc- 
ity of corpuscles (electrons) torn away from matter by the action of 
X-rays, which gives an experimental test of this "quantum" theory of 
Planck. ^^ Physics is thus thrown into confusion by the substitution 
in the microscopic domain of the principle of discontinuity in place of 
the principle of continuity. 

Leibnitz said that nature does not make jumps: Natura non facit 
saltus; in the world of atoms, modem physics perceives nothing but 
jumps. Atomic physics hmits itself to uncovering the laws which 
govern these jumps; it observes only the value, the quantum of energy; 
it seeks to calculate the probability that an atomic system existing at 
a given moment will find itself subsequently in such or such other 
state; and atomic physics finds that these laws are only the laws of 
probability. From the moment that one starts with the discontinuous 
action of elementary corpuscles of matter and of Ught, one cannot 
know whether at a given moment one of these corpuscles has or ought 
to have a certain precise position in space or a certain strictly defined 
motion; atomic physics declares it is impossible "to predict the future 
motion of a corpuscle of an atom." Indetermination is substituted for 
determinism; it is the "constant h" of Planck, the "imcertainty prin- 
ciple of Heinsenberg." All the experiments relative to "quanta" for 
30 years are affected by an unknown, an indeterminate element that 
must be introduced to make the calculations succeed. This indeter- 
minate constant has been represented by h, and it is even to this day 
susceptible of no interpretation. All the determinism of the mechanics 
of Newton is thus as if undermined at its base. "The significance (of 
this constant)," says Louis de Broglie, "has been for 30 years and still 
is today the enigma of modem physics ; it has remained the undefinable 
syllable in nature's cross-word puzzle." This fundamental indeter- 
minism appears as a sort of free choice of nature, escaping thus from 
the rigorous law of mechanics. 

It is scarcely necessary to add that this introduction of discontinuity 
and indeterminism into physics is vahd for the whole universe; but 
the indeterminate constant, represented by h in the calculations, is 
very small. Consequently, in the phenomena having to do with man 
or the stars, it is negligible. A margin of uncertainty always exists, 
but since it is less than the unavoidable errors which affect all observa- 

" Vie et transmutation des atomes, p. 164; the application of this effect called "photoelectric" is utilized in 
television and in moving picture talking films. 



134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

tions, determinism is apparently maintained. In a way, the older 
physics remains approximately exact for man and for heavenly bodies; 
but it is powerless to determine at the same time with exactitude the 
position and velocity of an electron at a given moment and to predict 
with certainty its rigorously determined motion; discontinuity and 
indeterminism are integral parts of the atomic world. 

Astrophysicists and physicists who study atomic structure must 
use their imagination ; it is imagination which leads to experimentation 
and interpretation. But it is necessary at the same time to be prudent 
in this respect; the ascribed interpretations are usually afterward 

rejected. 

New ideas can only be accepted as a result of conclusive and repeated 
experiment. Especially is it necessary always to distinguish care- 
fully between the results of experiments and the interpretation given 
these results. 

Thus, in astrophysics, since the work of Hubble in 1925, we con- 
sider that the spiral nebulae visible through our telescopes are island 
universes, analogous to the universe of which the earth, the sun, the 
Milky Way, and all the ordinary stars are a part and which we call 
"the galaxy." 

The velocities of about 100 of these distant spiral nebulae are 
believed to have been determined, principally with the aid of the large 
Mount Wilson telescope; it appears from this work that all are moving 
away from us and with velocities as great as one-seventh of the velocity 
of light. Moreover, Hubble presented in 1929 a law according to 
which the velocity of recession is proportional to the distance; each 
increase of 1 million light-years in distance increases the velocity of 
recession by 170 kilometers per second. Thus all the galaxies appear 
to be running away from each other; they are fleemg from each other 
with increasing speed; it is this conclusion which gives us the term 
"the expanding universe," and suggests to us that the universe has 
doubled its radius in less than 2 billion years.^^ g^t when the galaxies 
will have attained a velocity as great as that of light, they can never 
be seen by man, for light rays from them will be unable to reach the 
earth. Tliis will mean an unfathomable universe. 

Of course, this interpretation rests upon the shift of lines in the 
spectra of spiral nebulae examined through the Mount Wilson tele- 
scope. Who can say that this shift of spectral lines will not soon be 
interpreted differently? The study of spectra is sufficiently mysteri- 
ous for the whole interpretation to be taken with reservations. ^^ 
Moreover, the strangest feature about Hubble's law is that it assumes 

" See Paul Couderc, Univers 1937, Paris. Editions rationalistes, 1937. 

u The astronomer Esclangon, for example, does not agree that light Is absolutely constant and believes 
that measures relative to the light of stars are different from terrestrial measures; these conceptions, moreover, 
may be connected with those relating to interstellar space. 



THE UlJJIVERSE AND MATTER — ^LO UIS- JARAY 135 

for distant galaxies in no way related to our galaxy, any law whatso- 
ever which governs the life of all galaxies by comparison with our own. 

One other hypothesis of astrophysicists seeks to solve the contradic- 
tion between the finite and the infinite; they call it the "curved uni- 
verse." Curvature, sphericity, is to be the law of matter. The 
universe is shaped like an immense sphere, an enormous bubble; all 
radiation follows a curve; light coming to us from distant galaxies is 
bent. In consequence, light from a star ought to arrive at the earth 
from two opposite sides, from one side by the direct curve and from 
the other by maldng the complete circuit of the sphere. Let us await 
experimental proof that the propagation of radiation, energy, or 
light is not in a straight line but a curved path. 

Without letting ourselves be carried away by imagination, let us 
realize that the tests of the past 30 years have led physicists to modify 
entirely their conceptions of the world, of light, of matter, of energy, 
of the universe. The infinitely great and the infinitely small seem 
immeasurable; they are not of the same order of magnitude as man. 
The mind asks, at each stage, whether these discoveries are not only 
symbols, constructions of the mind, whether they correspond to some- 
thing entirely objective. At every moment one is tempted to say: 
"This happens as if"; but one dares only say: "This happens thus." 
At any rate, the new physics is the creator of mysteries. These are 
mysteries: The microscopic and the macroscopic, the indeterminism, 
the discontinuity, elements which change from one substance into 
another with the disappearance of part of their mass, the conversion of 
matter into energy and energy into matter. In place of the older, 
rigid mechanics, with the unalterable conservation of matter, with 
all motion determinate, with elements whose positions and velocities 
were known repeating themselves in "the form and motion" of Des- 
cartes, there is substituted anew physics which is directed by new views 
concerning the unity of matter and light, the principle of equivalence 
including the conversion of energy into matter and matter into energy, 
the introduction of discontinuity and indeterminism by wave ma- 
chanics. These views completely change our conceptions of the 
exterior world and of the universe. 



THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE 



By Edwin Hubble 



[With one plate] 



The exploration of space is an achievement of great telescopes. 
Men first studied the heavens with their naked eyes. They recog- 
nized and described the solar system — the central sun with its family 
of planets — and the discovery is one of the great intellectual feats of 
the race. But beyond the planets lay the stars. They were too 
distant for reliable investigation, and their nature remained a subject 
of sheer speculation. 

For the human eye, with all its perfection, is necessarily a small 
instrument ; the aperture of the fully opened pupil is only a fifth of an 
inch. Many an astronomer, in those early days, must have dreamed 
of a giant's eye that would collect more light, penetrate more deeply 
into the universe around us. And eventually, that incredible dream 
materialized. Just 330 years ago the telescope, newly invented, was 
pointed toward the sky, and the way for exploration on the grand 
scale was suddenly opened. Galileo, as Kepler wrote to him, had 
scaled the very walls of heaven. 

The centuries that followed were crowded with investigations that 
led to the formulation of modern astronomy. Telescopes and their 
accessories developed and, with each advance, new fields were opened. 
The nature of the stars was established. The sun itself was definitely 
recognized as a star, and earlier speculation on the subject was thus 
confirmed. The many millions of stars, it was found, are not scat- 
tered indefinitely through the universe ; they form an isolated system. 
This swarm of stars, this stellar system, drifts through space. From 
our position somewhere within the system, we look out through the 
swarm of stars, past the borders, into the universe beyond. 

Telescopes have continued to develop untU today we are exploring 
those outer regions. They are inhabited by stellar systems compar- 
able with our system of the Milky Way. Those other systems are 
the extragalactic nebulae. We find them scattered thinly through 
space out as far as telescopes can reach. They are gigantic beacons, 
permitting us to survey and study a sample of the universe. Even- 

> Public lecture delivered in San Francisco, Monday evening, March 21, 1938, on the occasion of the 
presentation of the Bruce Gold Medal of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific. Reprinted by permission 
from The Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 60, No. 293, April 1938. 

137 



138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

tually, if the sample is fair, we may be able to infer the nature of the 
universe as a whole from the observed characteristics of the sample 
available for inspection. This possibility is the ultimate goal of the 
explorations of space. The sample must be fair, and the characteris- 
tics must be determined with precision. How near we are to the 
realization of these conditions, we do not know, but we like to believe 
that the new telescope — the 200-inch reflector destined for Mount 
Palomar — may furnish an answer. 

Meanwhile it is imperative to learn as much as possible with existing 
instruments, concerning the nature of the inhabitants of space. The 
nebulae are the landmarks that must necessarily be used in the general 
study. The more intimately we know their characteristics — their 
luminosities, dimensions, masses, structures and contents — the more 
reliably can we interpret the reports of the final surveys. 

Our present information is stUl fragmentary, but by piecing bits 
together we can construct a fauly coherent picture. The nebulae, it 
is found, are all members of a single family. The forms vary widely 
but they fall readily into a sequence which represents the progressive 
variation of a single fundamental pattern. Thus it is possible to 
reduce the nebulae to a standard type, and to study them as one 
homogeneous group ; or, it is possible to select conspicuous, neighboring 
nebulae, and to present them as typical examples of the famUy. In 
the discussion which foUows, the latter alternative will be adopted. 

THE LOCAL GROUP 

On the grand scale, the nebulae are scattered more or less at ran- 
dom; one large volume of space is much Uke another. Nevertheless, 
the small scale distribution is quite irregular, and presents many 
analogies with the distribution of stars. Thus we find isolated 
nebulae, multiples, groups, clusters, and, possibly, clouds. Our own 
stellar system is the chief component of a triple nebula, the Magel- 
lanic Clouds playing the role of satellites. The great neighboring 
spiral in Andromeda is also favored with two satellites. These two 
triple systems, together with four or five other nebulae, form a loose 
group more or less isolated in the general field. The local group has 
played an important role in the development of nebular research for 
it furnished a small sample collection of nebulae so near that their 
brighter stars could be studied with existing telescopes. These stars, 
and, in particular, the Cepheid variables, furnished the criteria which 
established the scale of distances, and thereby opened the realm of 
the nebulae to actual exploration. 



THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE — HUBBLE 139 

MESSIER 31 

Except for our own stellar system, the most conspicuous member of 
the local group is the great spiral in Andromeda, M31, with its two 
satellites, M32 and NGC205. The spiral can be seen with the naked 
eye as a faint cloud about half the size of the moon, and with a total 
luminosity equal to that of a fourth- or fifth-magnitude star. When 
photographed with telescopes, the cloud takes shape as an elliptical 
object whose long diameter is above five times that of the moon, and 
whose ratio of axes is about 3 or 4 to 1 . The central region is relatively 
bright but the luminosity fades outward to poorly defined edges. The 
spiral pattern has never been seen with any telescope, although it is 
easily recognized on the photographic plate. The image increases 
with the focal length of the telescope, ranging from perhaps a quarter- 
inch with small kodaks to about 6 feet at the Cassegrain focus of the 
100-inch reflector. Thus, with powerful instruments, the nebula must 
be explored section by section. Our detailed information, at present, 
is restricted to selected areas, chosen for specific purposes. Photo- 
graphs show a semistellar nucleus of about the fourteenth magnitude, 
surrounded by a central region of structureless, unresolved nebulosity, 
from which two arms emerge on opposite sides and wind outward to 
form the spiral pattern. The general pattern is repeated over and 
over among the fainter nebulae in the sky, and the variations are 
largely concerned with the relative amount of luminous material in 
the arms as compared with that in the central region. On the basis 
of this criterion, the normal spirals faU into a progressive sequence with 
M31 near the middle. In other words, M31 is a typical example of 
the intermediate type spirals. By analogy with other members of the 
class, we may safely conclude that the elliptical form of the image is an 
effect of foreshortening. The fundamental plane of the thin lens- 
shaped spiral is tilted about 15° from the line of sight. 

The outer regions of the spiral arms, in contrast to the nuclear region, 
are partially resolved into separate stars — presumably the brighter 
giants and supergiants of a stellar system comparable with our own 
galactic system. On this assumption, the unresolved portions of the 
arms and the nuclear region consist of swarms of stars too faint to be 
seen individually. The fragmentary data now available, such as the 
stellar outbursts called novae, and the solar-type spectrum, are 
thoroughly consistent with this interpretation. The recognition of 
stars in the outer regions was the clue which solved the mystery of the 
distance. Various types of stars were recognized which are well 
known in our own system. Among other characteristics, we knew 
their intrinsic luminosities, or candlepowers, and, consequently, their 
apparent faintness indicated the distance of the nebula in which they 
were located. Once the distance (about 700,000 light-years) was 



140 AlsTNITAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

determined, the real dimensions of the system were readily calculated 
from the apparent dimensions. 

The main body of the spiral, the portion that is conspicuous on well- 
exposed photographs, has a diameter of about 35,000 to 40,000 light- 
years, and a total luminosity of the order of 1,000 million suns. 
Extremely faint outer regions, whose existence can be detected by 
refined methods of investigation, more than double the over-all diam- 
eter, and add perhaps 60 percent to the luminosity. Thus, the spiral is 
revealed as a giant nebula, the greatest of all those whose individual 
distances are known, and comparable with the galactic system itself. 
It is surprising and even disturbing to find the two greatest known 
systems both within the local group but, on the basis of our present 
information, the conclusion seems unavoidable. To this extent we 
seem to inhabit a favored position in the universe. 

The mass of so immense a system as M31 must also be abnormally 
large, although the precise quantity has not been determined. The 
spiral is rotating, and the speed of rotation can be measured with the 
spectrograph, but, as Zwicky has shown, such data alone do not furnish 
an unambiguous value of the mass — they may suggest, at best, only a 
lower limit. The relative, presumably orbital motions of the satellites 
bear directly on the problem, but we can measure only one component 
(namely, that in the line of sight) and, moreover, the planes of the 
orbits together with the protection factors are unknown. Finally, we 
can suppose that, among stellar systems in general, there exists a 
characteristic relation between total mass and total luminosity which 
may be evaluated with the aid of data from the galactic system. This 
method also is uncertain because it involves several unverified assump- 
tions such as the detailed similarity of stellar contents and the ratio of 
dark to luminous material. Nevertheless, the difl'erent methods, 
none of them individually reliable, agree in suggesting a mass of the 
general order of 100,000 million suns, and we are inclined to believe 
that the number of ciphers is about correct. 

MESSIER 32 

The two satellites of the giant spiral are both fainter than the 
average nebula, and one of them, NGC205, is one of the faintest of 
the known dwarfs. In other words, the triple system covers practi- 
cally the whole observed range in total luminosities, namely, six 
magnitudes, or about 1 to 250. The brighter satellite, M32, is 
superposed on the outer arm of the main spiral, about 24' south of 
the nucleus. The actual location in the line of sight is a matter of 
speculation. M32 is not a spiral but is a typical example of an 
elliptical nebula (E2) with a ratio of axes about 8 to 10. It exhibits 
no structure save for the smooth fading of the luminosity from the 



THE NATUEE OF THE NEBULAE — HUBBLE 141 

nucleus outward to undefined borders. The size of the image in- 
creases steadily with exposure times (the isophotal contours remaining 
similar ellipses), as far as the exposures have been pushed. Although 
the dimensions have little meaning apart from the observing condi- 
tions, the values usually quoted are a major diameter of 4' or 800 
light-years, and a total luminosity of the order of 20 million suns. 
The values refer to the conspicuous portion of the image on well- 
exposed photographs. 

Very short exposures with the 100-inch telescope show a round, 
semistellar nucleus, about 2" in diameter and about 13.4 magnitude. 
This diameter merely reflects the resolving power of the photographic 
plate, for visual examination shows a still smaller nucleus. Sinclair 
Smith, using an interferometer on the 100-inch, found no trace of a 
strictly stellar center, and concluded that the true nucleus is probably 
a globular mass with a diameter of perhaps 0''8, or about 2 light-years. 
The concentration of luminosity within such a nucleus would be 
somewhat greater than that in the central region of the most compact 
globular cluster — in other words, not inconsistent with the assump- 
tion that the nebula is a system of stars. 

The nucleus of M32 has been described at some length because, as 
far as observations go, it appears to be typical of nebulae in general, 
and, being relatively near, can be studied in greater detaU. The 
nucleus of our own system is presumably hidden behind dark obscur- 
ing clouds in the Milky Way. Baade, using red-sensitive plates and 
heavy filters, has partially penetrated the clouds, and, in the direction 
of the galactic center and at latitude 4°, has recorded a star-density 
which is of the order of 800,000 per square degree. Such a density 
at perhaps 2,000 light-years from the actual center requires no im- 
reasonable extrapolation to suggest a nuclear density comparable 
with those in M32 and M31. 

Since the satellite is superposed on the outer, partially resolved 
region of the main spiral, the search for individual stars is somewhat 
confused. It can be stated that there is no definite trace of resolu- 
tion in the satellite, and, consequently, there are probably no super- 
giants in the system. The available photographs probably establish 
this conclusion down to M=— 2, and possibly to M= — l. Never- 
theless, Sinclair Smith's investigations indicate that the assumption 
of a stellar constitution offers the most plausible and consistent 
working hypothesis that has been formulated. Thus we are pre- 
sented with the problem of a stellar system in which supergiants 
are not present. 

The problem assumes general significance because the satellite 
closely resembles the nuclear region of the main spiral in color and 
spectrum as well as texture, and both nebulae, as previously men- 
tioned, are typical examples of their classes. The spiral exhibits a 



142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

complementary distribution — supergiants in the outer region, dwarfs 
and (possibly) giants in the nuclear region. Among nebulae in 
general, the relative distribution varies systematically through the 
sequence of structural forms, the supergiants worldng inward as the 
spirals unwind. The characteristic behavior offers a possible observa- 
tional approach to the fundamental question of nebular evolution, 
the first problem being a study of the systematic variation in stellar 
contents of nebulae along the sequence of forms. This problem 
requires the greatest possible light-gathering power and wUl be espe- 
cially suitable for the 200-uich reflector when that telescope is com- 
pleted. Meanwhile, the preliminary investigations are carried on 
with the 100-inch, and some of the results for M31 will presently 
be discussed. 

NGC205 

First, however, some mention should be made of the thu'd member 
of the triple system, the fainter sateUite, NGC205. It lies about 37' 
north preceding the nucleus of the main spiral, almost exactly along 
the minor axis. As in the case of M32, the actual position in the line 
of sight is wholly speculative. However, the radial velocity is 
appreciably the same as that of the spiral, and, consequently, the 
orbital motion must be almost entirely across the line of sight. This 
situation is consistent with the assumption that the satellite may lie 
close to the fundamental plane of the spiral. The distance between 
the two nuclei would then be of the order of 30,000 light-years, and 
the satellite would be located within the extremely faint, tenuous, 
outer extensions of the spiral. 

NGC205 is a nondescript system. In form and general texture, it 
resembles an elliptical type (E5) with a ratio of axes about 2 to 1, 
but the concentration toward the center is very low, small obscuring 
clouds are involved, and several individual stars and small nebulous 
objects (presumably globular clusters) seem to be associated with the 
satellite. The dimensions, as usual, vary with exposures, but the 
diameters are generally quoted as 8^X4' or 1,600X800 light-years, and 
the total luminosity as about 7 million suns. 

STELLAR CONTENTS OF MESSIER 31 

OBSCURATION 

Since the two satellites are unresolved, the main spiral alone offers 
an opportunity to examine the stellar contents of a nebula. The 
investigation reveals many analogies with the galactic system, con- 
sistent with the current picture of our own nebula as a spiral at a 
stage in the sequence somewhat later than M31. One of the most 
conspicuous features is the great amount of obscuration. The 



THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE — HUBBLE 143 

extreme north following end of the spiral is lightly veiled, and the 
central half of the nebula, north preceding the major axis, is fainter 
than the south following half. The latter feature is frequently used 
in attempts to determine the true orientation — to identify the side of 
the nebula which is nearest the observer. The question is still un- 
answered, and with it another fundamental question concerning the 
direction of rotation — whether the spiral is "winding up" or "un- 
winding." 

In addition to the veiling of large areas, many obscuring clouds 
are scattered over the nebula. The absorption has not been meas- 
ured, but it seems likely that the "all or none" principle is approxi- 
mated. On the one hand, certain clouds seem to exhibit complete 
absorption and, moreover, the spiral obscures the faint, distant, back- 
ground nebulae in a very conspicuous manner. On the other hand, 
stars of various known types, widely scattered over the spiral, exhibit 
only the normal dispersion about their mean luminosities, and the 
behavior suggests that the systematic effects of absorption on these 
particular stars are either negligible or curiously uniform. The ques- 
tion of absorption is important and deserves further investigation, 
for it is one of the factors involved in the precise determination of 
the distance of the nebula. At present the effect is ignored in the 
calculations but is recognized as an uncertainty which operates in a 
specific direction. 

STAR CLOUDS AND OPEN CLUSTERS 

The upper limit of stellar luminosities in M31 is probably of the 
order of M=— 6, or somewhat fainter than the corresponding limit 
in the galactic system. Stars brighter than M= — 5 are not numerous, 
but thereafter the numbers increase rapidly with diminishing lumi- 
nosity as would be expected in a great stellar system. The distribu- 
tion of the supergiants (the only stars which can be studied individu- 
ally) follows the spiral arms much as, in our own system, they follow 
the Milky Way. Star clouds are conspicuous ; one, for instance, was 
listed in the early catalogs as a separate nebula, NGC206. Open 
clusters are also found, and in at least one case a typical A-type 
spectrum has been recorded. Emission nebulosities (of the type of 
the Orion nebula) have not been recognized; but such objects are 
known to be a characteristic feature of later type spirals, and their 
absence in M31 is expected. 

CEPHEIDS 

Three types of objects have been found in large numbers and 
studied in some detail, namely, Cepheid variables, novae, and globular 
clusters. The first Cepheid was discovered in 1923; systematic 



144 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

investigations during the next 5 years increased the number to 40, 
and a dozen or more have since been added to the Ust. The Hght- 
curves are typical and the periods, with one outstanding exception 
(P=175 days), range from 48 to 10 days. The data exhibit the fa- 
miliar relation between periods and mean, or maximum, luminosities — 
the famous period-luminosity relation — by virtue of which the 
Cepheids furnish the best available criterion of great distances. 
Wherever we find Cepheids, their periods indicate their intrinsic 
luminosities (candlepowers) and, consequently, their apparent faint- 
ness measures their distances. For instance, the known Cepheids in 
M31, as indicated by their periods, average about 1,800 times as 
bright as the sun, but they appear about 200,000 times fainter than 
the faintest stars seen with the naked eye. 

The distance of M31 would be rather accurately determined by 
this method if it were not for the uncertain effects of obscuration, 
both in the galactic system and in the spiral. The main body of the 
galactic system appears to be embedded in a widespread, tenuous 
medium (often called the uniform layer), and, of course, many clouds 
of dust and gas are scattered through the system, concentrating 
toward the fundamental plane of the Milky Way. From our posi- 
tion within the system, and close to the galactic plane, we observe 
distant nebulae through the surrounding haze and between the 
obscuring clouds. The absorption is greatest in and near the Milky 
Way, and diminishes toward the galactic poles. But the effects are 
not strictly uniform as we look around the sky at a given galactic 
latitude, and the calculated corrections, at present, represent average 
values which may not be precise for a particular direction. 

Now M31 is seen near the edge of the Milky Way at latitude 20°. 
The average obscuration at this latitude is about 0.48 magnitude (55 
percent) but the proper correction might be considerably different. 
Actually, the large numbers of very faint, distant nebulae found in the 
vicinity of M31 suggest that the region is more transparent than nor- 
mal. A cloud, or real aggregation of the background nebulae, would 
produce the same phenomenon, and it is quite possible that both effects 
are present. However, an examination of the data leads to the pro- 
visional conclusion that abnormal transparency is the dominating 
factor, and, consequently, the effect will be partially compensated by 
minor obscuration within the spiral. These remarks sufficiently 
indicate that the precise effect of obscuration is an unsolved problem. 
For the present, it is advisable to apply the average correction for 
galactic latitude, and to recognize an uncertainty of the order of 10 
to 25 percent in the resulting distance. 

The direct procedure is then to compare the many Cepheids in M31 
with those in the Small Magellanic Cloud which serves as a unit of 
extragalactic distance. Taking account of the average galactic ob- 



THE NATUKE OF THE K'EBULAE — HUBBLE 145 

scuration in the two directions, we find that the Cepheids in M31 
average about 4.3 magnitudes fainter than Cepheids with correspond- 
ing periods in the Cloud. Therefore, the relative distances are about 
7.2 to 1. Since the current value for the distance of the Cloud is 
95,000 light-years, the distance of the spiral is about 700,000 light- 
years, subject to the previously mentioned uncertainty. 

NORMAL NOVAE 

About 120 normal novae have been discovered in M31 during the 
past 21 years. The record is by no means complete, for an analysis 
of the well-observed seasons suggests that the frequency is of the order 
of 25 to 30 per year. These novae form a very homogeneous group; 
their light curves are more or less similar over the regions that can be 
observed, and the dispersion about the mean luminosities at corres- 
ponding stages is remarkably small. 

A discussion of the data some 10 years ago suggested a mean 
luminosity at maximum of the order of M=— 5.7 with a dispersion of 
about 0.5 magnitude. The mean light-curve for the first month after 
maximum appeared to be approximately linear with a slope of the 
order of 0.05 magnitude per day. Spectra of two novae, obtained by 
Humason in 1932, exhibited the familiar features of normal novae in 
the galactic system. 

The general similarity to galactic novae is pronounced, but a detailed 
comparison of maximum luminosities leads to discrepancies. Galactic 
novae, as a class, are systematically brighter by more than a magni- 
tude. Moreover, several cases are known — e. g.. Nova Aquilae (1918), 
Nova Persei (1901), T Scorpii (1860) — where the maxima were of the 
order of M=— 9, which would be highly improbable on the basis of 
the small dispersion about the mean maximum derived in M31. 

The study of galactic novae, as a class, is subject to effects of se- 
lection which favor the brighter objects, and to difficulties of measur- 
ing individual distances. For these reasons, it was hoped that the 
group characteristics could be determined in the neighboring spiral, 
and the results used in the interpretation of observations within the 
galactic system. The procedure cannot be followed unless the two 
groups of novae are known to be strictly comparable. Thus the ap- 
parent discrepancies assumed unusual importance; they indicated 
either intrinsic differences between the groups or errors in the inter- 
pretation of the available data, and no progress was possible until the 
question was settled. 

Quite recently, my colleague. Dr. Baade, has found a solution in the 
latter alternative. Observations of M31 with large reflectors were 
necessarily made only a few days in each month, and most of the 
novae were discovered at some unknown interval after maximum. 
The mean light-curvefwasjconstructed on the simple assumption that 



146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

maxima occurred midway in the unobserved intervals preceding dis- 
coveries. By restricting the data to unobserved intervals less than a 
month, it was possible to use a large number of novae and derive a 
mean point on the light-curve at about 15 days after maximum, and a 
short section of the curve in either direction. The mean maximum 
was then derived by extrapolating this segment of the light-curve on 
the assumption of a constant slope (of the order of 0.05 magnitude per 
day). 

Baade, examining the best available photographic light-curves of 
galactic novae, found that the luminosities faded rapidly during the 
first few days, then more and more slowly until, by 3 weeks or so after 
maximum, the slopes were comparable with those observed in M31. 
He pointed out that the two groups of novae should properly be com- 
pared in the most reliable section of the mean light-curves rather than 
at maximum where the data in the spiral are few and unsatisfactory. 
If the comparison is made at 20 days, the two curves agree fairly well 
over a short range, and the extrapolation to maximum luminosity can 
be made on the basis of the well-determined curve for galactic novae. 
The procedure leads to a mean maximum in the spiral at M= —6.7 to 
—7, depending on the method of weighting the data, in excellent agree- 
ment with current values for galactic novae. Moreover, the brighter 
novae seem to fade more rapidly than the fainter, and such a correla- 
tion would evidently increase the dispersion about the mean maximum 
suggested by the incomplete data for the spiral. 

Thus the outstanding discrepancies are removed. We can state 
with some confidence that the relative luminosities of novae and 
Cepheids agree -wdth those known in the galactic system, well within 
the uncertainties of the observations. Novae in the two systems 
appear to be strictly comparable, and occasional maxima of M= — 9 
are readily accounted for as random deviations from the statistical 
mean. 

SUPERNOVAE 

Another type of nova in M31 is represented by the famous star of 
1885, S Andromeda, which reached a maximum of the order of 
M= — 15, or twice the total luminosity of the average stellar system. 
The outburst occurred before the days of the spectrograph, and the 
many descriptions of the visual observations must be read in the light 
of information derived from the photographic study of similar stars 
made during the past year. It now appears that S Andromeda was 
a typical example of the rare, spectacular supernovae which form a 
well-defined group of objects quite different from any others known 
to astronomy. Supernovae represent the sudden release of energy 
on a tremendous scale, and their imique spectra offer problems whose 
solution should furnish information of a new kind. 



THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE HUBBLE 147 

The outbursts occur with a frequency of the general order of one per 
stellar system per several (possibly four or five) centuries. The fre- 
quency in giant nebulae, such as M31 and our own galactic system, is 
presumably greater than the average, and, consequently, we might 
expect to find records of several examples scattered through the 
history of the last 2,000 years. Plausible instances have been assem- 
bled (for example, a nova outburst in 1054, whose remnants are 
probably now observed in the Crab nebula, and Tycho's nova of 1572), 
but in general it is not possible to establish specific, individual cases. 

GLOBULAR CLUSTERS 

A large number of objects have been found in M31 which, from 
their forms, structures, colors, and spectra, have been provisionally 
identified as globular clusters, although no individual stars can be 
seen. The 140 known objects form a homogeneous group in which 
the intrinsic luminosities range from M=— 4.7 to —7 and thus 
exhibit a relatively small dispersion around the mean value, which is 
about —5.3. 

That globular clusters in the galactic system also form a homo- 
geneous group is indicated by Shapley's classical investigation of their 
distances. When his peculiar scale of total luminosities (which he 
humorously calls convenient rather than conventional) is corrected, 
the absolute magnitudes range from about —5 to —9, with an ex- 
ceptional cluster, Omega Centauri at —9.8. The mean value is 
near —7.3. 

Thus the two groups overlap to a considerable extent, but the 
clusters in the galactic system are systematically brighter than those 
in the spiral by about two magnitudes. The discrepancy is fully 
established, and represents an intrinsic difference in the group char- 
acteristics. The brightest of the objects in M31 is fainter than the 
mean of the galactic globular clusters. The discrepancy, however, is 
not so disturbing as that formerly presumed in the case of the novae, 
because globular clusters are known in the Magellanic Clouds, and 
they also appear to be systematically fainter than the galactic objects — 
comparable, in fact, to the objects in M31. Moreover, similar objects 
are recognized in several of the nearer nebulae, and the average lumi- 
nosities vary from system to system. These considerations detract 
from the value of globular clusters as criteria of distances, but they 
suggest a new field of investigation, namely, the comparative study 
of the group characteristics of globular clusters in different environ- 
ments. 

Unlike the clusters in the galactic system, which are believed to 
exhibit a spherical distribution, those in M31 follow the flattened, 
lens-shaped distribution of the general luminosity. The novae 

114728—39 11 



148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

follow the same pattern ; they may appear anywhere in the nebula but 
are most frequent in the bright, unresolved nuclear region. Cepheids, 
on the contrary, follow the complementary distribution of the super- 
giants; they favor the spiral arms and tend to avoid the nuclear region. 

These notes, which omit many individual features of the triple 
nebula in Andromeda, and almost the whole of a considerable body of 
spectrographic data, are yet sufficient for our purpose. The nearest 
of the neighboring spirals stands forth as a great, independent stellar 
system, an island universe, separated from our own system by a vast 
stretch of appreciably empty space. If we were in that nebula, and 
looked back across that space, the S3^stem of the Milky Way presum- 
ably would resemble the actual appearance of M31 in its dimensions 
and in many of its structural features. 

As our explorations sweep outward, we recognize countless other 
members of this same family. They are the true inhabitants of the 
universe. The nearer systems appear large and bright. Then we 
find them smaller and fainter in constantly increasing numbers, and 
we know we are reaching out into space farther and ever farther until, 
at the extreme limit of our telescopes, we reach the last outposts of the 
observable region of the universe. With the 100-inch reflector, the 
great spiral in Andromeda could still be recognized as a nebula if it 
were so remote that its light had to travel for a thousand million years 
to make the journey. 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE 



By Harlan T. Stetson 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 



[With three plates] 

The subject assigned me for this evening is peculiarly gratifying, 
for there is a new emphasis being placed upon the importance of 
science to human welfare. Certainly of the cosmic elements neces- 
sary for our well-being, no two are more vital to us than the sun's 
radiation and the atmosphere we breathe. 

As we all know, the earth's atmosphere consists of nearly one- 
quarter oxygen, three-quarters nitrogen, a sprinkling of carbon 
dioxide, with a bit of seasoning of the noble condiments of argon, 
neon, crypton, xenon, and a trace of heHum. Here at the earth's 
surface, we can count on a little more than 1 percent of moisture in 
the form of water vapor to prevent the complete desiccation of acad- 
emicians and others. For a thorough mixing of these elements of 
the atmosphere and the maintenance of its temperature as well as 
the variations of its temperature, we rely upon the sun. Rarely 
more vividly have we had impressed upon us the relationship of our 
atmosphere to the sun as a part of our cosmic environment than 
has been evidenced lately by some magnificent displays of the North- 
ern Lights. Flaming gorgeously red, a hundred or more miles high, 
like neon signs they advertise the lofty air, swarming with the traffic 
of electrons, ions, and particles, all jostling one another as they are 
stimulated by radiations from the sun during a period of great sun- 
spot activity. 

If we look at the sun through a telescope, we see a gaseous globe 
approximately one million times the size of the earth in volume with 
a hot radiating surface of about 6,000° C. in temperature and fre- 
quently, as on the day when this photograph (pi. 1) was taken, be- 
sprinkled with dark patches that are called sunspots. From watching 
the motion of these spots, we learn that the sun rotates about an axis. 
This rotation is not uniform but is most rapid at the equator where 
one rotation is completed in about 25 days. Halfway between the 
equator and the poles, observations indicate 3 extra days are con- 
sumed in a single rotation. 

' The seventh Arthur Lecture, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, February 24, 1938. 

149 



150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

We need scarcely remind a Washington audience that through 
the long painstaking investigations of Dr. Abbot, Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, the amount of energy that the sun pours 
forth has been measured with such precision that we not only know 
the average quantity of heat and light emitted but that this average 
varies from time to time to the extent of some 2 or 3 percent. Ex- 
pressed in engineering language, we can say that the earth's share of 
the sun's output is in the neighborhood of 450 million million horse- 
power. Because of its relatively insignificant size and because also 
of the great distance that separates the earth from the sun, a distance 
of 93 million miles, our planet intercepts but one two-billionth of this 
total solar output. Even so, if we stop to consider what the cost 
to the earth would be were we charged for a year's service of heat 
and light from the Solar Utilities Power and Light Company, we 
would find oiu- indebtedness mounting to staggering proportions. 
At a price of 1^ cents per kilowatt-hour, the annual budget that 
would have to be allowed for sunshine for the United States alone 
would aggregate a total of 327 quadrillion dollars. 

Of course such large figures as quadrillions are indeed difficult to 
picture. If we restrict our interest for the moment to the City of 
New York alone, we find that the cost of sunshine for Greater New 
York for just one day amounts to 100 million dollars. 

Knowing how much of the sun's energy strikes the earth and the 
small proportional amount which the latter intercepts, one can easily 
calculate the total output from the Solar Power House. It is 380,000,- 
000,000,000,000,000,000 kilowatts. The solar dynamos are evidently 
running at full-tilt and giving continuous service. 

Life on the earth during the past, present, and future so depends 
for its well-being upon this constant amount of sunshine that we 
may well be interested in how long the Solar Power Company can 
remain solvent and how long it can continue to operate while human 
beings inhabit the earth. Meanwhile, we are impressed with the 
apparent waste of the sun's natural resources so far as any use by man- 
kind is concerned. Fortunately for us, millions of years ago sunshine 
provided the energy for growing the vast tropical forests of the Car- 
boniferous era. It is the carbon in those fallen tree trunks that we 
are mining today in the form of coal, the chief source of fuel for our 
own public utilities. Thus nature has stored in those primitive 
forests buried underground unthinkable calories of canned sunshine 
that brightens our highways and illuminates our buildings during the 
long nights when the sun is below the horizon. So the sunshine of 
the past is being brought literally to light again. Even the ultraviolet 
light in our health lamps is again directly traceable to the sunshine 
of those days when the dinosaurs roamed through the vast tropical 
forests. 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE — STETSON 151 

If we live where we obtain our electric current from utility com- 
panies operating solely by water power, we do not dodge the issue of 
our debt to the Solar Power Company. The radiation from the sun 
transforms the water of the oceans, lakes, and streams into the 
ascending water vapor that condenses into clouds and falls in rain, 
feeding mountain streams, and rivers that turn the giant turbines 
of the hydroelectric plants. A fair estimate of the amount of water 
evaporated and precipitated in rainfall in 1 year is 480 million million 
tons. To carry on this gigantic irrigation enterprise requires the 
expenditure of 1,000 million horsepower continuously throughout 
the year, yet only a very small amount of solar energy is consumed 
in running this rain-making machinery. 

How long the Solar Power Company can continue to operate 
depends upon its source of supply, and to answer this question we 
must avail ourselves of the best guesses of science. Dismissing as 
utterly inadequate earlier hypotheses, our best guess now is that the 
chief source of energy is within the atoms of which the sun is composed. 
The two simplest atoms about which we know anything are those of 
hydrogen and helium. Hydrogen is the highly explosive gas which 
was the cause of the Hindenburg disaster, and helium is the inert 
nonexplosive gas which those responsible for this giant airliner would 
have liked to have substituted for hydrogen, could they have obtained 
it. Four hydrogen atoms constitute the necessary building material 
for one helium atom with just a bit of energj' left over. 

It appears probable that within the hot interior of the sun the trans- 
mutation of hydrogen into helium is continually taking place, thus 
releasing an enormous amount of heat from the surplus energy left 
over from each combination of four hydrogen atoms as they form one 
helium atom. Every time such a transmutation takes place one per- 
cent of the weight of the materials involved is liberated as energy. 
On such an hypothesis the sun could have well kept up its present 
state of radiation from as far back in geologic time as we have any 
reason to consider. Of course the sun is constantly losing weight in 
the process. The loss of weight has been calculated to be 4,200,000 
tons every second, but we scarcely need worry about the fuel supply 
being exhausted while the sun still has about 2,000,000,000,000,000,- 
000,000,000,000 tons of matter left in it! 

Passing over reminders of our indebtedness for the various services 
the sun renders, we shall come to see that we are quite as much 
interested in analyzing the kinds of radiation that the sun sends out 
as we are in the total amount of energy received. When we analyze 
this radiation we discover that it covers a wide range of frequencies 
or wave lengths. It seems probable that each of these wave lengths 
or frequencies renders a special kind of service to the earth and its 
atmosphere. 



152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

We are all familiar with the fact that if sunlight is split into its 
component colors by means of a spectroscope we can see a large variety 
of the radiations represented by the various parts or colors of the solar 
spectrum. The visible range to which the eye responds represents 
frequencies extending from 400 million million cycles per second to a 
frequency just about double this, or 800 million million cycles per 
second. The sensation of the higher of these two frequencies is that of 
violet light, and the sensation produced by the 400 million million cycle 
frequency is that of deep red light. In between these two extremes 
of the spectrum fall the intervening colors. But outside this so-called 
visible range to which the eye responds there is a vast scale of radia- 
tions both beyond the red end of the spectrum which we call the 
infrared and far down below the violet which we call the ultraviolet. 

By means of the photographic plate, we can extend the map of the 
spectrum in either direction. Far out beyond the red end are heat 
radiations from the sun that may be measured with the thermopile or 
the bolometer. It was during the days of Dr. Samuel Pierpont 
Langley, a predecessor of Dr. Abbot as Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, that a very complete and careful survey of the radiations 
from the sun was carried out, extending into the infrared. Today 
much research is being done in measuring the extremely short waves, 
or high-frequency radiations out beyond the violet, for the ultraviolet 
is coming to have increasing importance not only from the point of 
view of health but from the point of view of the radio engineer. 

It is undoubtedly the impact of these very short waves or high- 
frequency radiations upon the top of the atmosphere that is responsi- 
ble for its ionization that makes possible all our radio communication. 
Fortunately for us, most of the ultraviolet light is stopped in the upper 
atmosphere owing to the presence of a small amount of ozone which 
acts as an absorbing screen to these high-frequency radiations. If the 
ozone in the upper air were reduced to standard atmospheric condi- 
tions at the earth's surface, it would form a layer scarcely more than 
2 millimeters thick. Through the 2-millimeter layer a sufficient amount 
of ultraviolet stUl seeps through to the earth's surface to produce the 
necessary vitamins for our well-being. Were this ozone layer absent, 
on the other hand, it would be quite impossible for us to survive under 
the extremely short wave-length radiations that would penetrate to 
the earth's surface. 

Thus, we see it is the combination of both the sun and our atmos- 
phere that makes life on the earth possible. The sun not only 
radiates health-giving sunshine but it also radiates death-deaUng rays. 
Were it not for the protecting shield of the earth's atmosphere, the 
sun would be the death of all of us. The atmosphere, then, provides 
us, on the one hand, with oxygen for maintaining Ufe, and on the other 
hand, shields us from the highly penetrating rays from the sun that 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE STETSON 153 

are dangerous in the extreme. The atmosphere is a sort of buffer 
state, the very top of which receives a violent bombardment of high 
frequency radiations from the sun that is prevented from reaching 
the surface of the earth by the absorbing power of the molecules of 
gases contained in it. Up where tliis bombardment occurs, we witness 
the auroral displays, such as the brilliant occurrences of last January. 
These displays are in reality electrical discharges in the thin atmos- 
phere occurring at the active front where are received the heavy 
artillery of corpuscles, electrons, and radiations which fall upon it 
from space outside and for which the sun appears to be chiefly 
responsible. 

It is this blanket of atmosphere that enables the earth to retain 
during the night much of the warmth generated by the sunshine 
falling upon it during the day, thus preventing the temperature of 
the earth from falling to extremely low temperatures during the 
hours of darlaiess. 

Though the effective atmosphere is many miles thick, when com- 
pared to the size of the earth itself it is but a thin shell, hardly more 
than the thickness of the paper upon which the map is printed on a 
desk globe compared to the size of the globe itself. 

If we look at a cross-section of the earth's atmosphere, it may for 
convenience be divided into three zones or layers in which the strato- 
sphere occupies the middle ground. The region below the stratosphere 
is that which contacts our immediate surroundings and provides the 
winds and atmospheric currents, giving rise to all our weather. We 
call this lower region comprising perhaps the first 5 or 6 miles the 
troposphere. The region above the stratosphere is the ionosphere. 
If we send a recording thermometer aloft, we find that while passing 
through the troposphere the temperature steadily falls until a height 
of 10 or 12 kilometers is reached, when the temperature reaches the 
extremely low value of —55° C, or some 68° below zero Fahrenheit. 
Strangely enough, for the next 30 miles or so there appears to be little 
change in temperature. This is the region of the stratosphere. The 
weather forecaster for the stratosphere would have a relatively simple 
task, for day after day, year in and year out, his prognostications 
would be "clear and cool," and his forecasts would be 100 percent 
correct. At a height of 60 kilometers or somxc 40 miles, the tempera- 
ture would begin to rise again. Recent investigations give some 
evidence that at extreme heights, up where the auroral fires play, 
temperatures of 1,000° C. have to be postulated to account for the 
presence of the oxygen that is there. The extremely rarefied condi- 
tion of this upper atmosphere, however, calls for perhaps a quite 
different interpretation of temperature than that to wliich we are 
ordinarily accustomed when determining temperatures by the ther- 
mometer at the earth's surface. 



154 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Ascending through the cross-sections of the atmosphere, we find 
there is a rapid decrease in the amount of atmospheric pressure. 
Within the first 3 miles from the earth's surface, half the total amount 
of oxygen and nitrogen, the principal atmospheric ingredients, are 
included. The limiting height to which the thinning atmosphere 
extends is somewhat difficult to fix. Perhaps we should place it at 
400 or 500 miles, although recently Dr. Carl Stormer has observed 
auroral streamers reaching to heights of 600 miles or more. Where 
auroral streamers go, some of the thin atmosphere must extend. 

Through the courtesy of the Smithsonian Institution we have 
provided for us here ^ a piece of apparatus from which the air can 
be exhausted so that we can gradually simulate conditions that 
would be encountered were we to board an imaginary balloon and 
ascend upward. To apply such electric potentials as appear to 
exist aloft, there are two electrodes entering this glass tube at either 
end and a high voltage is applied across these terminals. Under the 
standard atmospheric conditions of this room which is now the 
condition inside the tube, you see there is no evidence of a passage 
of electricity. Air under ordinary conditions is a relatively good 
nonconductor. If, however, I now start the vacuum pump going 
and begin to exhaust the air from this closed tube, the pressure will 
be gradually reduced and we shall soon see the beginning of an illumi- 
nation as an electric current passes through the rarefied air from one 
end of the tube to the other. The color already simulates the red 
tints of the aurorae. As the vacuum in this tube increases, we 
imagine ourselves rising higher and higher through the stratosphere. 
We note the changing form of the electrical discharge and the pale 
blue color that now occurs as the ionization of the thinning air in the 
tube becomes more complete. The glow is dimming now as we are 
attaining the equivalent altitude of some 400 or 500 miles. At this 
imaginary height the air molecules are becoming scarce. The artificial 
auroral glow is dimming. Now it has ceased altogether for the 
vacuum obtained is too nearly complete for current to pass longer. 
We are at the very top. Now shutting off the pump we will throw 
a little valve here, and gradually admit the air from the room again. 
In our imaginary flight our gallant gondola is now descending. Watch 
for the first appearances of the auroral glow. There it is — first pale 
blue, gradually increasing in intensity as we rapidly descend to 
greater densities of the air. Once again we see the pink striations. 
We are coming rapidly into the stratosphere. Now come the irregular 
discharges characteristic of the denser regions. The glow dims and 
disappears once more. We have fallen rapidly down to full atmos- 
pheric pressure again where the air becomes nonconducting and the 
discharge has ceased. 

' Experiment shown to the lecture audience. 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE — STETSON 



155 



This is an illustration of the way in which aurorae are formed in 
the upper atmosphere of the earth under the electrical excitation 
that appears to be caused by the sun's radiation as molecules of 
oxygen and nitrogen are ionized in the regions where the pressure 
is very low. 

If we make a chart of the numbers and occurrences of these aurorae 
we find there seems to be a curious connection between the frequency 
and brightness of auroral displays and the state of the sun as marked 
by the appearance of sunspots. Professor Brooks, Director of the 
Blue Hill Observatory, has kindly allowed me access to the records 
made of aurorae at that station for the last 30 years. Utilizing the 
observations of the brighter aurorae, we have here a graph showing 
the variations in auroral frequencies occurring in years distributed 
with respect to the maximum occurrences of sunspots. The fewest 



o to 

UJ 




: 


=> 




8 


UJ 

UJ 5 




1 

■ 

. 1 








1 - 


1— 
< 
_i 

UJ 


1 1 
















1 



5 4- 3 Z 
YEARS BEFORE 



I I 

SUNSPOT 
MAXIMA 



Z 3 A 5 
YEARS AFTER 



Figure 1.— Relative frequency of auroral display at Blue Hill Observatory from records 1885-1937. 

number of aurorae appear to occur from 4 to 6 years before or after 
the years marking sunspot maxima. The time when aurorae appear 
most frequently would seem to be about 2 years after the passing of 
the maximum of sunspots. The very high column occurring 1 year 
before sunspot maximum is due largely to an unusually large number 
of observations in 1893. These results corroborate rather well 
those of a longer series of observations tabulated by Dr. Chree extend- 
ing for over 100 years, or from 1750 to 1877. 

The fact that aurorae therefore appear to occur with greater fre- 
quency at the times when sunspots are most numerous suggests an 
electrical effect in the upper atmosphere for which sunspots may be 
responsible. Much of our present knowledge of aurorae is due to the 
exhaustive studies and mathematical calculations of Dr. Stormer of 
Bhndern, Norway. By careful analysis of the motion of charged par- 
ticles in the magnetic field of the earth he has been able to deduce 
tracks of ionization so simulating auroral forms as to indicate very 



156 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

significantly that such discharges in the upper atmosphere are indeed 
the result of bombardments of electrons coming in from outside, 
warped by the magnetic field of the earth. In endeavoring to express 
such phenomena on an electronic hypothesis we may well look at the 
sun, therefore, for a consideration of the character of sunspots and 
to trace any possible mechanism by which corpuscular charges might 
be ejected in the regions of the sunspots themselves. 

When we look at an enlarged view of a sunspot and analyze the 
light from it we fuid that the dark interior center is surrounded by a 
turbulent area. A photograph taken in the light emitted by hydrogen 
at one particular frequency reveals that here are whirhng masses of 
gas, arranging themselves in veritable vortices. There is every indi- 
cation, then, that a sunspot is in reality a terrific solar hurricane. It 
was in 1908 that the late Dr. George EUery Hale, the founder and 
director of the Mount Wilson Observatory, first observed that sun- 
spots were giant cyclones in the sun's atmosphere. They are indeed 
very similar in their formation to the tropical hurricanes that originate 
in the West Indies and sweep northward. 

An ordinary telescope would never have disclosed all this about 
sunspots. With a special contrivance of his own invention called the 
spectrohehograph he was able to photograph the sun, utiHzing the 
light of a given frequency from one chemical element at a time. The 
spectrohehograph is a sort of a combination of a spectroscope and a 
moving plate arrangement, somewhat similar to a motion picture 
outfit in its operation. With this device it is possible to photograph 
the distribution of clouds of chemicals whose presence in the sun's 
atmosphere is betrayed by the lines in the spectrum. Since the 
invention of the spectroscope it has been Imown that hydrogen and 
calcium, for example, are very conspicuous elements entering into 
the sun's makeup. 

With photographic emulsions made especially sensitive to the red 
light emitted by hydrogen Dr. Hale photographed on a moving film 
the entire solar surface so far as it was covered by bright luminous 
hydrogen clouds. The resulting representations of the sun appeared 
very different from photographs made in ordinary light. Not only 
were large clouds of hydrogen gas discernible all over the sun, but in 
the neighborhood of sunspots they seemed to be swept into the heart of 
the spot as though they were caught in the center of a whirlpool. 
Pictures of sunspots taken in this way show the same kuid of vortex 
as one often sees when a basin is being emptied of water by the sudden 
removal of a drain plug at the bottom of the bowl. Such an appear- 
ance might be presented by the top of a terrestrial cyclone or tornado 
if photographed from a stratospheric balloon. The dark center of the 
spot forms the center of the vortex; the outlying shaded region that 
characterizes the so-called penumbra of the sunspot would represent 



THE SU]Sr AND THE ATMOSPHERE — STETSON 157 

the turbulence bordering upon the central funnel about which the 
atmospheric particles are rapidly rotating. Thus we see there is a 
close analogy between the meteorology of tropical cyclones and that 
of sunspots. To carry the analogy still further, spots north of the 
sun's equator are in general whirling in one direction while corre- 
sponding spots south of the equator whirl in the opposite direction. 
If the rotation of the one is clockwise, that of the other is counter- 
clockwise. This again is characteristic of the differences of rotation 
of tropical hurricanes on the earth originating in the northern and 
southern hemispheres, respectively. 

Had it not been for the trick of splitting up sunlight into isolated 
frequencies by means of the spectroscope, we should never have had 
pictures showing the existence of solar vortices such as we have today. 
In the ordinary photograph of the sun, the light emitted by every 
chemical element in the sun's atmosphere is clamoring to tell its 
story. The result is revealed in a rather jumbled picture of what is 
happening on the sun. The spots show up as dark regions only when 
the light-emitting power of every element of the sun is damaged in 
the vicinity of these violently disturbed regions. 

The spectroscope is very much like a highly selective radio receiving 
set. The sun is a high-powered station sending out light, broadcast 
in all the wave lengths and frequencies. When we look at the sun 
or photograph it with a telescope alone, we are using aU of the light 
and are, so to speak, operating a radio receiver which admits all fre- 
quencies at once. Thus we get a composite but very jumbled picture 
of what is happening on the sun's surface so far as details are con- 
cerned. By means of the spectroscope, however, the photographic 
apparatus, to continue our analogy, may be tuned to a single fre- 
quency such as the 470 milHon megacycle frequency that the red line 
of hydrogen emits. Tuned to this frequency, the spectroscope stills 
the tumult of all other elements and lets hydrogen teU its own story. 
It is then that we obtain the clear photographs conveying so beauti- 
fully the detailed information about the vortical whirls around the 
solar storm centers that v/ould otherwise be lost in the jumble of too 
many story-tellers. 

At about the same time another brilliant discovery due to Dr. 
Hale came from the Mount Wilson Observatory. It had long been 
known that the frequencies of light waves were distorted if there were 
a powerful magnetic field at the light source. This had been demon- 
strated in the laboratory shortly after the reason for such a phenomenon 
had been given by Zeeman in 1894. When the Mount Wilson ob- 
servers examined and actually measured the frequency of light coming 
from the centers of simspots, it was found to have changed frequency 
in exactly the way that light waves are distorted in the laboratory 
when a powerful electromagnet is placed around the source of light 



158 



ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



being examined. If additional proof were needed for the explanation 
of the changed frequencies, it may be stated that the double and triple 
lines found in the spectrum of sunspots indicated that the light was 
polarized just as in the case of the polarized light waves coming from 
the laboratory source upon which the magnetic field is impressed. 
Thus came the startling revelation that sunspots were not only terrific 
hurricanes but every center was in itself a powerful magnet. Since a 
magnetic field may exert a repulsing effect upon swiftly moving elec- 
trons, we see some reason that charged electric particles can be actu- 
ally hurled from sunspot centers at velocities which may carry them 
through space into the earth's atmosphere, thus ionizing the upper 
regions of the air in a way that would produce auroral displays. In 
the light of such a mechanism, therefore, we see a possible reason why 
aurorae occur in greater numbers and at greater brilliance at times 
when these solar storms occur most frequently. 

Curiously enough, for nearly 300 years it has been known that the 
direction of the compass needle and the intensity of the earth's mag- 
netic field appear also to be affected by sunspots, for in the year when 





h^ 








~ 










~ 


r 






~ 


h 












-^ 






















I { 


1 1 M M M 







t 


■ 


























\ 


































MAGNETIC ACTlVlTXu) 






' 








k 










n 


\ 








1 
















jl 


\ 
























' 








k 


r\ 


V 






\ 








1 




^ 








h 








\\ 










V 


\ 


















i 




Y 


i 


I 


K 


1. 


.120 


1 


\« 


^ 




\ 


s 






/ 






>, 






K 


*i 






r 












V 


\f 






I 


r^ 


' 1 


f 


\ 


\ 


1 


\ 






_ 


/ ^ 








4 




^ 




J 


y 


^ 






V 


1 \ 


(^ 




; 




r 


H 






n 






] 




f 


! 








/ , 






^ 


^ 


k 




80 - 










' 






^ 




/ 


\ 








f ' 


I 








fi^ 






/ 




\ 








j 




A 






'J 


\ 






An 




\ 


J 








\ 




j 






H 






/ 


' , 






r 








/ 










r 




\f 


^ 


rh 




{ 


\ 




1 




T 








\ 


/^ 


msw 


\ 




7 








V 






\ 




j 










r 






\. 


f, 




J 






\ 




1 






1 








ri . 




H»JUMBERr(E.f>»J 


y 










^ 




^ 


Q 


u 






;^ 


sj 


l_ 










^ 


L. 








si. 


Jl 






i- 


_ 


_ 





1840, 1850 1850 1870 1880 1890 ISOO 1910 1920 1S30 
Figure 2.— Sunspots and variations in earth's magnetism fluctuate together through the years. 

sunspots are most numerous, magnetic disturbances are most fre- 
quent and appear with marked intensity. 

If we examine a graph representing the sunspot numbers for the 
last 100 years, we become aware of the close parallelism between these 
magnetic variations on the earth and the variations in the numbers of 
sunspots. Furthermore, it will be evident that the years when sun- 
spots are most numerous follow with m.ore or less regularity an interval 
of somewhat over a decade between the times of maximum sunspot 
activity. This solar cycle, or sunspot period as we sometimes call it, 
is usually conceded to be on the average of about 11 .3 years duration. 
But an examination of the graph will show that sometimes the inter- 
val between maxima is as little as 9 years and on one occasion was as 
great as 17 years. We appear now to be in the midst of the period of 
maximum activity of the present cycle. 

The source and nature of the earth's magnetism is stUl one of the 
great mysteries of science. Although the close parallelism between 
magnetic changes on the earth and the appearance and disappearance 
pf sunspots has been recognized for many years, it was not until the 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE — STETSON 159 

discovery of the magnetic character of sunspots themselves by Dr. 
Hale and the more recent discovery of an ionized region in the upper 
atmosphere of the earth that any real explanation appeared as to why 
sunspots and changes in the earth's magnetic field should show so 
close a paralleHsm. 

Everyone knows in a general way that the earth is a magnetic 
sphere. That the compass needle does not point true north except in 
various restricted parts of the globe is also a fact which is generally 
recognized. Perhaps comparatively few people realize, however, that 
the compass needle is constantly wandering back and forth every day 
by a slight amount. When the sun rises in the east, the north end of 
the compass needle turns slightly toward that direction. By noon 
when the sun is south, it is pointed in its normal position. Then in 
the afternoon as the sun wanders and sets in the west, the compass 
needle wanders likewise to the west, coming back again to its normal 
position about midnight when the sun is below the northern horizon. 
This goes on day after day, month after month — but during the years 
when sunspots are most numerous these daily excursions of the com- 
pass needle wUl on the average be twice as great as during the years 
when sunspots are lacking. These diurnal wanderings of the compass 
needle can now be roughly explained as due to the effects of ionization 
of the upper atmosphere by sunlight. As the electric charges become 
separated in the process of ionization of the molecules of nitrogen and 
oxygen under the bombardment of ultraviolet light from the sun, the 
movements of these ions create a perceptible current, deflecting the 
compass needle from its normal magnetic position. We may infer, 
therefore, that at times of sunspot maxima the number of these ions 
in the upper air is materially increased, producing a more marked 
magnetic effect. The strength of the magnetic field of the earth, there- 
fore, may be considered as increasing and decreasing with the variation 
in the intensity of the ionization of the upper air that changes with 
sunspot occurrences. Most of our knowledge of the ionized region 
has come about through the invention of radio. 

In the early days of wireless, it was thought that electric waves 
which carried telegraph messages without wires traveled in straight 
lines over the earth, just as light waves do. With this conception one 
could never hope to communicate over very great distances, since the 
curvature of the earth would prevent the passage of the waves as the 
earth's huge hulk bulged into the communication path. The earlier 
wireless engineers thought that only by building higher and higher 
antenna towers could one ultimately hope to communicate over the 
thousands of miles that would make transoceanic wireless possible. 

How amusing such a picture appears when today any one of us can 
turn the knob on our short-wave sets and bring in broadcasts from 
London, Rome, or Berlin, Of course, these early crude notions about 



160 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

the way in which electric waves travel were erroneous. Such, never- 
theless, is the way in which science has groped into the unknown. 
Somebody experimenting with wireless and listening in found himself 
quite unconsciously eavesdropping on Marconi waves from far-away 
Europe. Instantly the thought about how wireless waves travel had 
to be changed. Evidently the ether waves followed the curvature of 
the earth and did not travel in straight lines after all. This led Pro- 
fessor Kennelly of Harvard to postulate that there must exist high 
above the earth's surface, perhaps 100 miles or so up, an electrified 
conducting layer from which the electromagnetic waves emitted from 
the powerful antennae were reflected back to earth. The earth's 
upper atmosphere, therefore, in his mind formed a conducting layer 
and imprisoned the radio waves between the earth's surface and space 
outside. A few months after Professor Kennelly published his idea, 
the English scientist, Oliver Heaviside, announced a similar conclusion 
quite independently. In honor of these two distinguished men this 
upper region of the earth's atmosphere that is electrically ionized is 
commonl}^ referred to as the Kennelly-Heaviside layer, also designated 
as the E layer. 

If we look at a diagram (pi. 2) which presents a vertical section of 
the earth and its atmosphere, we see that this Kennelly-Heaviside layer 
exists at an altitude of from 80-100 kilometers. Radio waves emitted 
from a sending station in all directions arriving in this ionized region 
have their velocity and direction changed as they penetrate further 
and further into the region, until at length they are bent back to 
earth again, reaching receiving stations hundreds and somxCtimes 
thousands of miles from the source whence they were broadcast. This 
region lies far above the stratosphere and generally above the region 
that is usually regarded as that where ozone is manufactured. This 
E layer is particularly favorable for reflecting or turning back radio 
waves of the frequencies which are most generally used for commer- 
cial broadcasting in connection with our entertainment programs. 
Radio waves of much shorter wave lengths or of higher frequencies 
penetrate and actually traverse through this region mitil they reach 
what appears to be another ionized region called the F layer originally 
postulated by Professor Appleton of England. This F layer lies some 
200 kilometers high or in the territory where auroral streamers stage 
their gorgeous displays. If the ionization of these upper regions is 
more intense as we near the period of maximum sunspot activity, one 
might well expect that some change might be observed in connection 
with radio transmission. 

Anticipating a new field of research, a Boston radio engineer, Mr. 
G. W. Pickard, and myself became interested in the making of quan- 
titative measurements of radio reception during the last sunspot 
maximum of 1928 in an endeavor to discover if such anticipated effects 



THE SUlsr AND THE ATMOSPHERE — STETSON 



161 



on radio commuiiicatioii could be measured. After a few years' 
observations, it appeared to be evident that when solar activity de- 
creased, the field strength of a Chicago broadcastmg station observed 
in Boston notably weakened, whereas as sunspots became less numer- 
ous there was a marked increase in the intensity of the radio waves 
from Chicago. A similar investigation carried on during the decline 
of sunspots from 1930 to 1932 between Chicago and the Perkins 
Observatory of Delaware, Ohio, yielded data to indicate that with a 
decrease of sunspots from a monthly average of 60 at the beginning 
of 1930 to a monthly average of about 10 in 1932, radio reception in- 
creased six-fold in its intensity. 

Let me hasten to point out that this does not necessarily imply a 
600 percent decrease in the ionization of the Kennelly-Heaviside layer 
over this interval, for it appears probable that a much smaller change 
in the percentage of ionization could so appreciably alter the degree 
of the angle of reflection at the ionized layer as to increase materially 



100 
90 
80 
70 
&0 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10 




_Good Distaac6_j5/! 
Receptioa 



•peaks of Secoattary Cycle 



.G-ood Long-Distance_ 
Reception. 




„,,,,,.,,,, ./AZO-\ZQi MILES FROM;/^^ 



1923 1924 1925 J92& 1927 1928 1929 19?0 19J1 1932 



Figure 3. 



-Solar activity serves as a basis for predicting quality of radio reception for broadcast freciuencies. 
The vertical scale represents sunspot numbers. 



the strength of a wave of a fixed frequency over a fixed path as re- 
ceived at any given point. 

Let us take an illustration from the sporting world. Suppose we 
were in a squash court and attempted to place a tennis ball at a pre- 
determined spot on the court by a serve directed to the ceiling. If we 
judiciously direct our serve, we may land the ball at its desired destina- 
tion by a reflection from the ceiling of the court. If now, the ceiling 
should be raised or lowered by even a relatively small amount, the 
same stroke would result in landing the ball far from its mark. Fol- 
lowing this analogy, a radio receiver may be at an optimum position 
for receiving a broadcast wave reflected from the ionized layer. Let 
the ceiling of reflection of this wave be altered either in height or in 
its ionic content, thereby mcreasing or decreasing the ionization present, 
and the wave may arrive at the earth so far from our receiver that we 
get notably bad reception. The radio, therefore, becomes a sensitive 
and extremely useful tool in recording changes of degree of ionization 



162 ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

in the Kennelly layer. When we observe field strengths at long dis- 
tances, we are in a way tracing the integration of the effect throughout 
the whole transmission path. 

Another way in which we gain important information as to the sun's 
effect upon the upper atmosphere is by making radio soundings from 
day to day. This method which has been in use for some years at 
the National Bureau of Standards, at the Department of Terrestrial 
Magnetism of the Carnegie Institution in Washington and elsewhere, 
consists of sending up a radio pulse, letting it bounce off the reflecting 
layer, come back nearly vertically into a sensitive receiver, and 
measuring the time elapsed while the wave was traveling this path 
to the ionosphere and back. Assuming that the radio wave travels 
with the velocity of light, one can calculate from the elapsed time the 
height to which the pulse ascended before it was turned back by the 
ionosphere. The method, you see, is very similar to that used at sea 
when a sound wave is sent from an oscillator in the ship's hull to the 
ocean bottom and is received back at the microphones of the ship's 
navigating equipment. Knowing the speed with which|sound travels 
through water, the ship's captain can thus determine the ocean depth. 
Soundings made in the ionosphere, therefore, reveal different con- 
ditions at various times, showing marked changes in the ionic density 
dependent upon the hour of the day and the season of the year. This 
method of radio soundings is sometimes modified by changing the 
frequency at which the radio pulse is emitted. If the frequency is 
sufficiently increased, these more penetrating waves may pass com- 
pletely through the ionized layer and not return. When such a 
frequency is attained, it is known as the critical frequency. Its value 
is an important index for studying cosmic effects. 

During the last few years of sunspot activity, there have been 
occasions when remarkable fadeouts have occurred in radio com- 
munication. In several of these instances extraordinary explosions 
have occurred on the sun simultaneously with the interruption of all 
radio communication in general. A record has been kept by Dr. 
Dellinger, at the National Bureau of Standards, of such radio fadeouts 
as are reported. In many of these instances observations at the 
Mount WUson Observatory have shown violent solar eruptions taking 
place simultaneously. It would appear that the intense ionizing radia- 
tion from the region of the sun where these eruptions occur reaches 
the earth with the velocity of light and of sufficient intensity to 
disturb immediately the ionized layer, confusing the reflection of 
radio waves, and thereby resulting in these fadeouts which sometimes 
last for an hour or more. Records at magnetic observatories show 
that during such instances characteristics of the earth's magnetic 
field are likewise suddenly altered. 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE STETSON 163 

Could we visualize the ethereal substance of the ionosphere as we 
visuaUze the surface of the ocean, we should find times when terrific 
storms were raging in this ionosphere. Here ions and electrons are 
being hurled hither and yon as though some great electrical wind 
played upon its surface, creating waves literally miles high. Fre- 
quently the turbulence attains such proportions that no reflecting 
surface for radio communication seems possible at all. When dis- 
turbances on the sun subside, the undulations in the ionosphere may 
quiet down and there is a return to more normal conditions for com- 
munication traffic through this ocean of the upper air. 

While knowledge of the sun has helped us to understand the 
vagaries of radio, we are coming to see that radio is one of the most 
important tools for learning about what happens on the sun and how 
disturbances there affect the ions in this upper air. Perhaps some 
day, even though the sky is cloudy, we shall have a sufficient number 
of reports of radio conditions over the globe so that we can form a 
very good idea as to what is happening on the surface of the sun by the 
way in which world-wide radio communication behaves. Unlike the 
telescope, radio apparatus does not go out of commission when the 
sky is overcast, for electric waves, of course, pass tlirough the clouds 
as easily as ordinary daylight comes through window glass. 

Concerning the exact method or methods by means of which the 
sun produces all these electric disturbances of the upper air with the 
concomitant magnetic variations in the earth, we stUl lack a great 
deal of knowledge. The fact that the ultraviolet radiation from the 
sun is the major factor in producing this ionization appears a reason- 
able assumption. Whether or not in addition to the effect of the 
ultraviolet light, streams of charged particles also emanate from the 
sun in the regions of sunspots is perhaps still debatable. The elab- 
orate mathematical work of Dr. Stormer, in calculating the movements 
of hypothetical charged particles from the sun striking the upper 
atmosphere of the earth and thereby producing aurorae, would cer- 
taiuly seem to favor the idea that corpuscular radiation of some sort is 
responsible for this phenomenon. 

One experimental way by which we might determine the relative 
importance of ultraviolet light and corpuscular radiation from the sun, 
if such exists, is to observe the radio effects during the phenomenon of 
a total eclipse of the sun. Measurements of the Heaviside layer 
heights during the eclipse of 1932 revealed a marked change in the 
ionization coincident with the arrival of the moon's shadow. As the 
moon passed off the sun and the normal daylight was restored, the 
apparent height of the ionized layer again resumed its normal value 
through the day. 

114728—39 12 



164 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



Chapman has shown that if there is a corpuscular emanation from 
the sun affecting the ionosphere and if these corpuscles travel, as 
would be surmised, at velocities much slower than those of light, the 
effect of the moon in screening off from the earth such a stream of 
charged particles should cause disturbances in the ionosphere as much 
as 2 hours in advance of the optical shadow. Such an effect was looked 
for in the case of the New England eclipse of 1932 but with results that 




Figure 4.- 



RADIO FIELD-STRENGTH, 9-10 P.M., 75 WEST MERIDIAN TIME 
WBBMj WABAN, MASSACHUSETTS, NOVEMBER 1935 THROUGH JANUARY 

1938 

-Field strengths of broadcasting station show a decrease trend with increasing sunspots. 
of sunspot activity and ultraviolet light are inverted in plotting. 



Curves 



were far from convincing. Observations at other eclipses have un- 
mistakably confirmed the hypothesis of ultraviolet light as a som'ce of 
ionization but only conflicting reports are available for any substan- 
tiation of a corpuscular or electronic shadow. One difficulty, perhaps, 
in detecting the effects of a stream of charged particles or electrons 
emanating from the sun or sunspots lies in the fact that the paths of 



THE SUlSr AND THE ATMOSPHERE — STETSON" 165 

the charged particles would vary very materially from a straight line 
as they are distorted, both by any magnetic field which the sun may 
possess and by the magnetic field of the earth when the corpuscles or 
electrons arrive in the neighborhood of our planet. We should, 
therefore, preserve an open mind relative to any corpuscular theory, 
for negative evidence is never completely convincing. 

It seems hardly necessary to emphasize the desirability of contin- 
uing measurements of radiation from the sun such as have been con- 
tinued for so many years by the Smithsonian Institution. In con- 
nection with measuring the total amount of the sun's radiation it 
appears especially important that systematic measurements of the 
ultraviolet in sunshine should form an important part in gaining 
information as to the interrelation of the sun and the earth. Daily 
measurements of the strength of the ultraviolet in sunshine made by 
Pettit at the Mount Wilson Observatory over many years appear to 
indicate that in general ultraviolet radiation is more intense near 
sunspot maxima than at sunspot minima. There are, however, 
many disconcerting discrepancies. A remarkable drop in the ultra- 
violet radiation from the sun, for example, occurred in the early part 
of 1936 whUe solar activity was still rising. It must be remarked 
that ultraviolet is probably the source of the creation of ozone in the 
upper air, and at the same time any increase in the ozone content 
naturally screens from the earth's surface the greater part of this ultra- 
violet radiation which produces it. Since ozone, therefore, absorbs 
the greater part of the sun's ultraviolet radiation, it would appear 
that with any sudden increase in the ultraviolet there would be a 
concomitant increase in the amount of ozone which, in turn, would 
effectively reduce the quantity of the ultraviolet light which we would 
measure at the earth's surface. This seriously complicates the prob- 
lem, and may account for the fact that a smaller value of the ultra- 
violet radiation would actually be recorded by our instruments even 
though its emission from the sun at the same time might be enhanced. 
Similarly, a sudden dissociation of ozone due to a decrease in the 
amount of ultraviolet emitted from the sun might well result in a 
sufficient thinning of the ozone layer to allow apparently a material 
increase in the amount of ultraviolet coming through the atmosphere 
to the earth. Our instruments, therefore, would indicate more ultra- 
violet at a time when the sun might actually be emitting less. 

When we take averages of ultraviolet radiation over the years and 
compare them with solar activity, the correspondence between sun- 
spots and ultraviolet radiation is much more striking than any day- 
to-day or week-to-week correspondence can exhibit. It would appear 
feasible and highly desirable that observations of ultraviolet should 
be made from the stratosphere, utilizing balloons for carrying the 
recorders aloft. We find that the Smithsonian Institution already 



166 ANNUAL, EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

has plans for carrying out such a program of observations daily as 
soon as funds may become available for the purpose. 

With 95 percent of the earth's atmosphere below the apparatus, 
better measurements of the ultraviolet light could be made than at 
any station on the earth's surface. Notable advances in the design 
of apparatus for measuring the ultraviolet part of the solar spectrum 
have recently been made by Dr. O'Brien of the University of Rochester. 
Such apparatus yields photographic records by means of which a 
quantitative estimate of the ozone content of the upper air can be 
made daily with a high order of accuracy. The part which this ozone 
plays in modifying the amount and character of sunshine at the 
earth's surface is of very great importance. For weather and biologi- 
cal behavior are undoubtedly sooner or later dependent upon both 
the quantity of ozone and the quality of solar radiation received near 
the surface of the earth. 

The idea that weather may be associated with changes in the sun- 
spot cycle is not new. Many investigators have attempted to find 
relationships between sunspots and weather changes with the ultimate 
hope that since we can predict with reasonable accuracy the main 
trends in the solar cycle we may ultimately be able to predict likewise 
the main trends in changes of weather. The relationship between 
weather and sunspots is not a simple one. While some may doubt 
that any direct relationship holds at all, we might say frankly that 
there is certainly no adequate proof to the contrary. 

In spite of many conflicting results, it appears that in general the 
temperature of the world at large is somewhat higher at sunspot 
minima than at sunspot maxima. This seems at first paradoxical 
since we might well expect that at sunspot maxima the sun would 
send us more heat and radiation than at sunspot minima. Many of 
Dr. Abbot's observations, especially during the earlier years, seem to 
corroborate this. Yet the surface temperature of the globe could be 
actually cooler in years when the earth is receiving more heat from 
the sun, for increased heat produces increased evaporation which in 
turn generally results in increased rainfall. Increased rainfall actually 
lowers the temperature of the earth's surface and again by evapora- 
tion, continues to cool the air immediately above. Furthermore, with 
the warming of the earth, a vast convectional system of atmospheric 
currents results. As air warmed near the surface of the earth rises, 
cold air flows in from the polar regions with its chilling effects. It 
appears entirely possible that even with an increase in the heat received 
by the earth from the sun, so far as surface conditions are concerned, 
actually lower temperatures would occur at selected regions. 

One thing is certain, and that is that all the weather on the earth 
is produced ultimately by the sun. So far as changes in the sun's 
radiation affecting the general circulation of the atmosphere are con- 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE — STETSON 



167 



cerned, it is to be expected that such changes would ultimately give 
rise to the formation of storms and the storm tracks resulting. One 
of the difficulties in establishing any intimate connection between 
weather and sunspots is that our observations of weather tend to be 
very local. 

If one averages weather conditions over the entire globe, as, for 
example, comparing the average rainfall record at observing stations 
throughout the world, one might expect at first thought to find some 
relation with sunspots, assuming that sunspots have anything to do 
with weather phenomena. Such, however, is far from the case. 
A storm in one region of the globe means clear weather elsewhere, for 
a region of low pressure presupposes a region of high pressure adjacent. 
Similarly, excessive rainfall in a given locality in a given year will 
usually be offset by one of extreme dryness occurring elsewhere. To 




'1920 1925 1930 1935 1940 

Figure 5. — Clayton's preaiction of temperatures at New Haven, Conii., based on 68-year period. 

average together such effects will obviously lead to no definite conclu- 
sion. Furthermore, since storms travel over more or less defined 
tracks, the migration of these storm centers makes it impossible to get 
significant results from hundreds of stations scattered from the polar 
regions to the Equator. If progress is to be made, it will come 
through a consciousness of the distribution of weather as a whole over 
the entire globe. For a more accurate picture of world weather, 
indications for weather in a given locality at a given time may be 
more easily estimated. 

Mr. H. H. Clayton, of Canton, Mass., a well-known scientist who 
has spent many long years in weather bureau service, is a firm believer 
that changes in the sun are accompanied by fundamental changes in 
the earth's atmosphere. He appears to have found very definite 
indications that changes in the earth's atmosphere in different parts 
of the world accompany the changes in solar activity attendant upon 
the solar cycle, in which we can be sure Dr. Abbot would concur. 



168 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Looking at the weather on a world-wide scale, Clayton has found 
that pressures oscillate from one region to another in some way which 
appears to depend upon the intensity of solar activity. He finds 
there is an opposite trend over the continents and oceans in summer as 
compared with winter, and that the trend is different in the equatorial 
regions from that in the extratropical belts. In the equatorial regions 
temperatures are distinctly lower at sunspot maximum and higher at 
sunspot minimum. The same is true in the North and South Tem- 
perate Zones, but in the arid regions bordering the Tropics the 
temperature actually averages little higher around sunspot maximum 
than at sunspot minimum. From his studies he concludes that while 
the North Atlantic shows 10 to 20 percent more precipitation, the 
eastern half of the United States is in the region where raitifall is 
actually less during maximum activity on the sun. He concludes that 
our weather is the result of certain progressive wavelike movements 
of certain disturbed areas, originating in different parts of the world. 
With each cycle of change in solar activity, the centers of high baro- 
metric pressure move from high latitudes to low latitudes and back 
again. The amplitude of their oscillations and the speed with which 
these waves progress appears to be inversely proportional to the length 
of the period of oscillation. 

In years of unusually high sunspot maxima as is the case at the 
present time, areas of high pressure appear to be pushed farther north- 
ward. The return of these highs to low latitudes with accompanying 
colder and clearer weather may, he believes, be so retarded under 
such instances as to invert the phase of a cycle which has persisted 
for some time, when the amplitudes of these oscillations have been of 
less magnitude. Thus there will be several years when the differences 
in barometric pressure between the equatorial region and North 
Temperate Zone become greater than normal, and then this period 
will be followed by several years when the pressure differences become 
less than normal. The shifting of these centers of action, he believes, 
is definitely associated with sunspots. 

Mr. Clayton's conclusions are based on so large an amount of data 
and upon such a wide experience in meteorology that no one interested 
in weather or weather prediction can overlook the significance of these 
contributions. One might venture to suggest that one of the most 
important discoveries in the matter of weather prediction may come 
as a byproduct of some of these investigations. 

Various attempts have been made to attribute climatic cycles to 
changes in solar activity. Perhaps the most outstanding scientific 
contribution in this direction has come from Prof. A. E. Douglass, of 
the University of Arizona, who has spent a lifetime measuring varia- 
tions in the tree growth, especially in the forests of the Southwest and 
in California, Douglass noted that sequences in periods of rapid 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE STETSON 169 

growth of trees, as measured by the widths of their rings, follow 
very closely the sequences in the sunspot cycle. Since variations in 
tree growth suggest variations in precipitation, he has accumulated a 
vast amount of evidence for alternations of wet and dry periods vari- 
able with the sunspot cycle, carrying records backward for some 
3,000 years. His studies appear to indicate that at least for selected 
regions, trees have shown most growth when sunspots were most 
numerous. It does not appear improbable, however, that the growth 
of trees integrates all favorable conditions and that temperature, the 
quality of sunlight, and particularly the percentage of ultraviolet 
enter into the growth rate of trees as well as does rainfall. 

Sunspot periods have also been traced with minor discrepancies in 
the flow of rivers and the level of lakes, some regions responding 
much more clearly than others to the sunspot cycle. 

Altogether we see there are many indications that the earth responds 
to the changing state of the sun over an interval of a little over 11 
years and often by double this period or approximately 23 years. 
Whether all of the effects produced in the earth and its atmosphere 
that are noticed at sunspot maxima are the result of the sunspots 
themselves or whether the state of the sun and its whole surroundings 
are so activated as to change materially the cosmic environment of 
the earth is a question still unanswered. Enough has been said to 
indicate that it is eminently desirable to be able to predict sunspots 
with all the accuracy that our somewhat scanty knowledge will permit. 

Many attempts have been made to analyze the curve ot sunspot 
activity from the time of rehable records, which began in the middle 
of the eighteenth century, up to the present time. Investigators 
differ as to the number of significant periods wliich may enter into 
the solar graph. In addition to the 11- and 23-year cycles, others of 
37, 68, 77, 83, 252, 300, and even possibly as long as 1,400 years have 
been assigned. Authorities are not in agreement as to the reality of 
some of these intervals. Obviously we have hardly enough sunspot 
records to be sure of any intervals of 100 years or more. 

Somewhat over 2 years ago, on the basis of the occurrences of the 
past cycles and the present rate in the rise in sunspots, I ventured to 
predict that the next sunspot maximum would occur in the early part 
of 1938, or more than a year before what would have been expected 
by adding 11 years to the time of the last maximum. If subsequent 
observations should prove my predictions correct, it would be one of 
the pleasantest and most unexpected turns of fate for wliich a scientist 
could hope. We have not yet an adequate basis for any degree of 
precision in the sunspot prediction. 

The sunspot records obtained during the last year already have out- 
topped the records of 1917 and indeed all previous maxima subsequent 
to that of 1870. It will be observed from the sunspot curve that in 



170 ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

general alternate peaks are much more sharp in their formation than 
the intervening ones. The long drawn-out maximum of 1927-29 
should, therefore, be followed by a relatively sharp peak. With the 
rapid rise upward during the last year and the high maximum of last 
July, my own view is that the present maximum cannot carry beyond 
1938 without a substantial trend downward in the average sunspot 
numbers. 

Mr. Clayton's analysis of the sunspot cycle from 1750-1910 has 
led him to attempt a prediction from 1910 to 1955, using only the 
data accumulated previous to his predicted curve. The rather 
remarkable correspondence between his predicted curve and the 
observed curve from 1910 to date suggests that his independent fore- 
cast for a maximum at the end of 1937 or the beginning of 1938 lends 
an increased interest to the critical part of the curve in which we 
find ourselves at present. 

There is another important variation in the characteristic of sun- 
spots of which we must not lose sight. This is the apparent drift in 
the positions of the spots toward the solar equator as the cycle 
progresses. At the beginning of the sunspot cycle the spots first 
appear in the neighborhood of 35° either side of the sun's equator. 
This was exempUfied in the case of the present sunspot cycle which 
started in 1934 with high latitude spots. As the solar cycle advances, 
the spots increase in number and tend to break out at progressively 
lower latitudes on the sun. While there is some fluctuation back and 
forth in latitude from day to day and month to month, the trend is 
always toward the equator. As the sunspot period approaches the 
maximum, the average latitude for the maximum number of spots is in 
the vicinity of 15° both for the northern and the southern hemispheres. 
After the maximum the spots decrease in size and number but they 
continue to break out at decreasing latitudes. The end of the cycle 
is marked by infrequent spots occurring when they are seen on either 
side of the sun's equator in latitudes ranging from 2° to 5°. By the 
time this state is reached the next cycle has begun again with spots 
breaking out once more in high latitudes. 

This peculiar trend of latitude during the sunspot period is so far 
without any adequate explanation. Observation of latitudes, how- 
ever, helps very much in diagnosing where we may be with respect 
to the sunspot cycle at the present time. The average latitude of the 
spots of both hemispheres during the last 3 months has been 15.5° 
and leads us to believe, therefore, that we are now very close to the 
present sunspot maximum. By the end of 1938 it would appear that 
we will find solar activity definitely on the down grade, in which case 
the next sunspot minimum should arrive not far from 1944. 

If we knew what was the cause of sunspots, it would help very much 
in solving the mystery of the solar cycle and in predicting the future 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE STETSON" 



171 




tB 



Sb39^^nN iOdSNnS 



172 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



behavior of the sun. Of course the spots are fundamentally due to 
atmospheric disturbances in the surface layers of the sun. Whether 
the cause of these disturbances is to be found entirely within the sun 
itself, or whether there are extraneous causes for the phenomenal 
changes in solar behavior, we do not yet know. The periodic nature 
of the recurrences of sunspots has suggested to many that planets 
in some way are the disturbing bodies, but thus far predictions of 
sunspots based on planetary cycles have not met with much success. 
Any complete theory of sunspots must obviously express not only 
why they arise at more or less irregular intervals of about 11 years, 
but also why the spots of a new series first appear at high solar lati- 
tudes. It must also account for the progression of the spots toward 
the solar equator as the cycle advances. Furthermore, since it is 
definitely known that the magnetic character of the spots changes from 



150 



100 



50 



1 1 1 1 M 1 1 1 1 II 1 N i 

1 1 J v r Forecast from Observed 

,. ,Observed5unspot Numbers ,/ \ Values 68YearsEarlier 


' rf H L 1 , 


..:/ %■ '^y ' ''■ ' 



1910 1915 1920 1925 1930 1955 1940 1945 1950 1955 
Figure 7.— Clayton's prediction of sunspot maxima based on 68-year period. 

one cycle to the next, an explanation is needed for the change in 
polarity of sunspots in alternate cycles. Professor Bjerknes, a Nor- 
wegian meteorologist, has attacked the problem on theoretical grounds. 
He supposes that there is an atmospheric circulation taking place 
between the outer surface of the sun and the interior in such a way 
that in the outer layer of the solar activity, the gases are flowing from 
the poles to the equator. Near the equator he conjectures that they 
fall below the surface and then travel northward to high latitudes 
again. Gaining in temperature through their subsurface migration, 
these currents rise again to the surface around latitude 40°, proceed 
once more toward the equator, losing temperatures by radiation, 
until they fall again into the interior when the solar equator is reached. 
Accompanying such a circulation on a gigantic scale, the author of 
this theory postulates that secondary whirls will arise extending into 
tubular formation. Occasionally forced to the surface, the tube 
breaks into two segments, the ends of which appear as a pair of sun- 
spots. A single spot would be the result of but one end of the tube 
appearing at the surface. 

To account for the change in polarity in alternate cycles, he supposes 
that while one tubular formation is in progress, another vortex rotating 
in the opposite direction exists in the lower region and is carried for- 



THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE — STETSON" 173 

ward to break out at high latitudes, characteristic of the next cycle. 
He assumes it would take some 11 years for one family of tubular 
vortices to descend from the high latitudes to the equator while the 
second subsurface vortices with inverse polarity move northward for 
the start of the new cycle. 

While Bjerknes thus accounts for many of the well-observed pecu- 
liarities of sunspots by this theory, he gives no satisfactory explana- 
tion of the origin of these circulating tubes of gas nor is any attempt 
made in his theory to account for the 11-year periodicity together 
with the slight variation in this 11-year interval. 

The question of what causes sunspots and why they wax and wane 
in cycles is not yet answered. Most astrophysicists would dismiss 
any attempt at predicting the cycle on the grounds that the chief 
cause of sunspots lies within the sun itself and perhaps is inevitably 
irregular in its action. 

Many investigators, on the other hand, have held to the idea that 
the tidal forces of the planets acting on the solar atmosphere may be 
the ultimate cause of the cyclical disturbance. Attempts to predict 
in advance sunspot maxima, however, on the basis of planetary 
periods has not met with much success. There is one element, per- 
haps, in any planetary theory of sunspots that so far as I am aware 
has not been previously considered, and that is the part played by 
the period of the sun's rotation itself. 

On the basis of any equilibrium tidal theory, we should expect that 
the tide-producing force from any planet, no matter how feeble, should 
produce two tidal bulges directly opposite. A given region in the 
solar atmosphere, therefore, will be subject to two periods of tidal 
stress during each revolution of the surface with respect to a given 
planet. In the case of a slow-moving planet such as Jupiter, the 
interval between these tidal stresses would be about 12.5 days at the 
solar equator. If, now, there were a free period in the solar atmos- 
phere very nearly equal to this forced period of 12.5 days, an oscilla- 
tion might be set up which would ultimately reach a maximum and 
then subside again unless the two periods were exactly commensurate. 
The length of time between the times of maximum oscillation would 
therefore depend upon the ratio of the free period of the solar atmos- 
phere to that of the rotation of the sun with respect to the planet in 
question. 

It is conceivable that such an oscillation might reach a maximum 
in the case of Jupiter in an interval of possibly as long as 11 years. 
The fact that this interval might nearly equal the time of revolution 
of Jupiter about the sun — 11.8 years — would be merely a matter of 
coincidence. 

In the case of a more swiftly moving planet such as the Earth, 
Venus, or Mercury, the rotation with respect to these nearer planets 



174 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

would consume a somewhat longer time and the interval between 
periods of maximum oscillation of the solar atmosphere resulting 
would be very different from what it is in the case of Jupiter. It 
must be borne in mind that from the point of view of the tidal effect 
on the sun, the tide-raising forces of Venus and Mercury and the 
Earth are not much inferior to that of the planet Jupiter. When we 
know more about the hydrodynamics of the solar atmosphere so that 
it will be possible with reasonable assumptions to calculate the antici- 
pated periods of free oscillations, we might then have a quantitative 
method for testing the validity of such a hypothesis. 

The theory lends itself to considerable elasticity since at higher 
solar latitudes where the tangential tidal force is greatest, the period 
of rotation of the sun is considerably longer than at the equator. One 
might expect on such a hypothesis that the observed sunspot period 
would be the resultant of several oscillatory waves set up by the sev- 
eral planets. The composite curve might, under selected conditions, 
have a mean period between maxima equal to the known sunspot 
period of 11.3 years, and in many instances there would be wide vari- 
ations from the mean of this cycle. 

This theory would be consistent with the fact that the spots origi- 
nate in the region of the 40° latitude zone where the tangential com- 
ponent of the tidal forces tend to a maximum, and not inconsistent 
with their subsequent migration toward the solar equator. Until a 
mathematical treatment of free oscillations in the sun based upon more 
information than is available at present can substantiate such a 
hypothesis, we can but continue to speculate. 

In the space of an hour we have seen a few of the important ways 
in which the sun and the atmosphere with a balanced nicety provide 
the essentials of life. We find that changes in the sun find quick 
response in this atmospheric envelope which surrounds us. Clmiate, 
weather, radio communication, and perchance terrestrial effects 5'et to 
be discovered may some day become predictable through cycles that 
follow law and order. Is it possible that astronomy, the oldest of 
the sciences, which first intrigued man's study of the sky in the hope 
of guiding human destiny, may once more be turned again to earth 
and, with the knowledge gained from suns and galaxies, lead mankind 
to a more intelligent adjustment of life to its cosmic environment for 
the betterment of all? 

If such is but a dream, it is at least a dream well worth the quest. 
We may surmise that in our search the guiding star of human destiny 
wiU be the sun. 



Smithsonian Report , 1938. — Stetson 



Plate 2 



F OR APPLETON LAYER 200 - 500 Km 



"^^'^i^Kxn''' 



E LAYER. OR KENNELLV -ntAvisiut UMYtK 
\A/hich reflects radio wav-js . Zone ofm-'xir 



80 Km 



\ 



\ 



40Km O^ONE LFVEc 






X 



STRATOSPHERE 



iOOKm" 



SOXmi 



Pilot bailoonio Km. 



^Settle 1931 iS^Km 

. > } Highest p«ak 

-I^ Airplane l.m.t 12 Km "-tK J ®®''°'^ 1 




Cross section of Earths Crust and its atmosphere. 



COSMIC RADIATION 



By P. M. S. Blackett, M. A., F. R. S. 
Professor of Physics, Birkbeck College, University of London 



The study of cosmic radiation is rather a curious one. It is related 
ultimately both to astronomy, to geophysics, and to physics. The 
subject started about 1900 with the discovery by C. T. R. Wilson, and 
by Elster and Geitel, that the air in a closed vessel had a slight residual 
conductivity. The apparatus used for these early experiments con- 
sisted of an ionization chamber. A simple form of this apparatus con- 
sists in a metal box in which is suspended an insulated wire carrying 
a gold leaf ; when charged electrically, the movement of this leaf records 
the electrical conductivity of the gas in the box. With such a simple 
apparatus as this it was found that there was a residual conductivity 
of the air, which could not be explained by the effects of the known 
radioactivity of the earth's crust, and which was probably due to the 
presence of some very penetrating radiation. In fact, C. T. R. Wilson 
himself, in 1901, speculated as to whether this residual ionization might 
not be due to some radiation coming from sources outside the atmos- 
phere, either electromagnetic radiation, like X-rays, or corpuscular 
rays, like cathode rays, but of enormously greater penetrating power. 
Since that time at least 1,000 researches have been made on the subject 
of cosmic rays and a great many facts have been found out. We know 
now that this residual ionization is, in fact, due to atomic particles of 
enormous penetrating power coming into the earth's atmosphere from 
some sources outside the solar system, but exactly what these particles 
are, or where they come from, or how they were formed, or when, we 
still do not know. 

In this first lecture I am going to describe mainly the researches on 
cosmic rays which have been made with the ionization chamber as the 
instrument for their detection. There are, in addition, two other 
instruments by which these rays are detected and measured, and these 
will form the subject of the two succeeding lectures. 

Soon after the earliest experiments ionization chambers were taken 
to different places on the earth to find out whether this residual ioni- 
zation varied from place to place. Then a great series of experiments 
began in which ionization chambers were taken up mountains, in 
balloons, lowered down to the depths of the sea and carried in aero- 

1 The first of three lectures delivered before the Royal Society of Arts. Reprinted by permission from the 
Journal of the Royal Society of Arts, vol. 85, No. 4421, August 13, 1937. 

175 



176 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



planes. The crucial experiments, which showed the cosmic nature 
of the rays, were those of Hess in 1911 and 1912, who took ionization 
chambers to a height of 5,000 m in balloons. Hess found that the 
ionization due to the rays was larger at a great height than at sea level. 
This showed conclusively that the rays causing the ionization must 
have come downward from the top of the atmosphere, and not upward 




10 20 30 4G so 60 

Figure 1. — Atmospheric pressure (Piccard, Kipfer & Cosyns). 



\\Pressar e 

70 80 

C/77llg 



from the earth; for if they had come upward from the earth, they would 
decrease in intensity by absorption as one went up. Hess also found 
that the rays were equally intense both during the day and at night, 
and also during an eclipse of the sun. This showed that the rays could 
not come from the sun, because if they had, their intensity would be 
much less at night, or during an ecUpse. Thus it was these experi- 
ments which led to the rays acquiring the name of "cosmic." 



COSMIC RADIATION — BLACKETT 177 

Since that time a very great number of experiments have been made 
to find out how the cosmic radiation varies in intensity in the atmos- 
phere. Perhaps the most beautiful of these, and the most successful, 
have been the balloon flights of Regener and lately those of MUlikan, 
who send very light recording apparatus up to great heights by means 
of small hydrogen-filled rubber balloons. A small ionization chamber, 
which is made to record automatically the intensity of the rays on a 
photographic plate, together with the barometric height and the 
temperature, is made to weigh only a few pounds. This is enclosed in 
a light frame covered with cellophane, which acts like an ordinary 
greenhouse; the sun's rays coming in through the cellophane get 
degraded into heat and cannot get out again. In this way the appara- 
tus is kept warm at about room temperature, even though the tem- 
perature outside the apparatus is —50° centigrade. The rubber 
balloons which are used to take the apparatus up have to be examined 
very carefully for small pinholes, otherwise they are apt to burst 
prematurely, before the desired height is reached. Professor Regener 
sometimes has to stop up 100 or so tiny holes with rubber solution be- 
fore using a balloon. With such an apparatus, heights of 30 km above 
the surface of the earth have been reached, where the pressure of the 
atmosphere is only about 1 percent of that at sea level. It is found 
that the intensity of cosmic radiation is about 200 times as great as 
on the ground, confirming, of course, the view of Hess that wherever 
it is the rays come from it is at least outside the earth's atmosphere. 
Figure 1 shows a typical curve of the variation of the ionization with 
the pressure of the- atmosphere. 

With similar, but much larger apparatus, the ionization due to 
cosmic radiation has been studied under water, down to great depths. 
Regener, again, has measured the ionization down to depths of 280 m 
below the surface of Lake Constance, and finds that their intensity is 
only about 1 percent of that at sea level. So from the bottom of 
Lake Constance to the top of the stratosphere the intensity of cosmic 
rays increases by a factor of over 10,000 to 1. The enormous pene- 
tration of the rays, a penetration quite unexpected in the region of 
atomic physics, leads naturally to the conclusion that the rays must 
be of immense energy. The most penetrating atomic rays previously 
known, the beta rays from radium, can only penetrate a few centi- 
meters of water. Thus, the cosmic radiation is many hundred times 
more penetrating, and is, therefore, likely to be very much more 
energetic. In fact, it can be easily estimated that, to explain the very 
great penetrating power of some of the rays, it is necessary to assume 
energies up to 10" electron volts. 

The next great series of experiments consisted in the carrying of 
ionization chambers all over the world. Expeditions to the equator, 
to near the north magnetic pole, expeditions on mountains and in 



178 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



ships, all these have been used to find out how the intensity of cosmic 
radiation varies with the latitude and longitude and the height of the 
place of observation. This aspect of the study of cosmic rays can be 




called the geophysical aspect and is, in fact, closely related to the 
study of the variation of the earth's magnetic field over the surface of 
the earth. In figure 2 are shown the lines of equal cosmic ray inten- 
sity — or isocosmic lines, as they are called — and these lines run very 



COSMIC RADIATION — BLACKETT 



179 



nearly parallel to the lines of equal geomagnetic latitude. They also 
run nearly parallel to the lines of equal auroral frequency. The 
explanation of this relation will be mainly left to the next lecture, 
but can be given shortly by saying that the cosmic rays as they reach 
the upper levels of the earth's atmosphere are mainly electrically 
charged particles of very great energy. These particles are deflected 
by the magnetic field of the earth so as to reach regions of higher 
latitude more easily than regions near the equator. This behavior is 
very similar to that of the charged electrical particles which are held 
to be the origin of the northern lights. In fact, the theory of the 
aurora polaris, proposed many years ago by Birkeland and Stormer, 



c 
o 



V 1.7 




30' 



20' 



1(1° 0' 10' 20' 3a 
Geomagnetic latitude 

Figure 3. 



*0' 



. SO eo 
{Clay) 



applies almost unchanged to cosmic radiation. The intensity of 
cosmic radiation is found to be nearly constant from latitude 50° 
north up to the poles, but decreases toward the magnetic equator, 
the decrease amounting to about 15 percent. Figure 3 shows the 
results obtained during a voyage from Southampton to Cape Town. 
At greater heights, the increase from the equator to the poles is much 
greater. 

This study of the intensity of cosmic radiation at great heights and 
in different latitudes is of the highest importance, but our knowledge 
is at present extremely fragmentary and quite inadequate for many 
purposes. In order to test theories as to the nature and behavior of 

114728—39 ^13 



180 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

the rays, we really want to know the intensity of the cosmic radiation 
from sea level right to the top of the atmosphere at all latitudes, but 
so far it has not been possible to do many experiments of this type. 

Apart from the free balloon ascents by the technique already 
described, valuable results have been obtained by the use of manned 
balloons. This technique was first developed by Professor Piccard . 
It is well known that it is not possible to live at a height above, say, 
20,000 feet, without the use of oxygen — at least, if one cannot spend 
a long time acclimatizing oneself to the reduced pressure. One can 
go to a height of 40,000 feet or so if one breathes oxygen instead of 
air, but one cannot go very much higher, even breathing pure oxygen, 
unless one keeps up the pressure of the body artificially. There are 
two ways of doing this: one can place oneself, as did Professor Piccard, 
in a metal gondola, generally of spherical shape, which is sealed up 
and retains the pressure on the body above that of the air outside. 
The other method is to use a pressure suit, that is a suit rather like a 
diver's suit, but in which the pressure is kept above that of the atmos- 
phere. This method was used in setting up the recent altitude record 
for aeroplanes. With the former method Piccard and his collaborators 
and also some other investigators in America have reached heights up 
to 18 km, carrying elaborate and heavy apparatus with them. In 
one such flight from Belgium, which ended up somewhere in Central 
Europe, Dr. Cosyns measured the variation of the intensity of cosmic 
rays as he floated across Europe at a height of some 12 km. He found, 
much to his surprise, that the cosmic radiation remained constant 
from about 51° north to about 49° north, and then dropped suddenly 
as he went farther away from the poles. This critical latitude of 49° 
north, above which the cosmic radiation remains constant, is of great 
importance in all cosmic ray theory. We have to try and explain 
exactly why the cosmic rays remain constant north of this latitude 
both at sea level and at great heights. At present there is no satis- 
factory explanation of these facts. 

The next part of the study of cosmic radiation to be described is how 
the intensity varies with the time. Experiments have been made 
over periods of years to see if the cosmic radiation is quite constant or 
if, and how, it varies ^ Some results are shown in figure 4. The soft 
components of radiation, that is the part of the radiation which has 
not a very great penetrating power, does show an appreciable variation 
with the time of day. There is a slight maximum about midday of 
the order of a few percent of the whole intensity. But when the soft 
radiation is filtered out by means of thick lead screens, the remaining 
penetrating component is found to be almost constant. The figure 
shows that this penetrating component does not vary more than a 
fraction of 1 percent tliroughout the day; that is, when the results 
are averaged over a very large number of days. This again shows, as 



COSMIC RADIATION — ^BLACKETT 



181 



did the early experiments of Hess, that the radiation cannot come 
from the sun — at least, if it travels in straight lines — for if it came 
from the sun it would be very much more intense by day than by 
night. One can, in fact, conclude from the constancy of the radiation 
with time that the rays, 
as they reach the earth, 
must be isotropic; that 
is, they must be com- 
ing from all directions 
equally ; for if they were 
coming from any one di- 
rection predominantly, 
then since the earth is 
rotating, any part of the 
earth's surface would 
receive more radiation 
when it was facing the 
direction from which 
more rays were coming. 
Thus, the constancy in 
time of the rays implies 
their isotropy in space. 
Now this is one of the 
most difficult things to 
explain about the cos- 
mic rays, for it is very 
difficult to find plausible 
soiu-ces for the rays 
which are uniformly dis- 
tributed with regard to 
the earth. As has been 
mentioned already, the 
sun is obviously ex- 
cluded as a possible 
origin, but so also are 
the stars of our galactic 
system, for these are far 
from being uniformly 
distributed around the 
earth. If one looks at the night sky one sees a great concentration 
of stars which we call the Milky Way. There are many times more 
stars in this direction than in a direction at right-angles, so if the 
rays came from the stars of the Milky Way there would be a greater 
intensity of the rays when the Milky Way is overhead. This means 
that the rays would show a variation with sidereal time, but careful 




62 



t^..^...^....^^ 



12 
Solar time 



18 24 hrs. 

{Messer Schmidt) 



Figure 4.— Absorber. 

1. None. 4. Absorber 3 cm Pb. 

2. Absorber 0.5 cm Pb. 5. Absorber 10 cm Pb. 

3. Absorber J.5 cm Pb. 6. Absorber 20 cm Pb. 



182 ANISrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

investigations have shown that there is very little variation indeed. 
There is a small effect, which will be discussed later, which is of great 
importance and which has only recently been detected, but the varia- 
tion with sidereal time is very much less than would be expected if the 
stars of the Milky Way were the origin of the rays.^ 

Now all the stars that one sees with the naked eye, or can be seen 
even with a large telescope, are members of a huge group of stars 
called the galactic system. This system contains some 30,000 
million stars. These stars form a kind of huge flattened disk, of 
which the size can be roughly estimated as being 60,000 light years in 
diameter and 5,000 light years thick. It may be noted that a light 
year, which is the unit of distance often used by astronomers, is the 
distance trav^eled by a ray of light in a year, and is about 10'^ km. 
About 90 percent of the matter in the galactic system lies in this 
central flattened disk, about half consisting of stars and about half 
of diffuse matter and of gas. The earth is situated somewhere near 
the central plane of the disk, but about 20,000 light years from its 
center. This whole galactic system constitutes a huge nebula analo- 
gous to, but probably rather larger than, the great spiral nebula in 
Andromeda. There is a great central condensation of stars near 
its center which lies toward the constellation of Sagittarius, this 
constellation lying in about the thickest part of the Milky Way. In 
recent years it has been discovered that the whole galactic system is 
in rotation, making one complete revolution in about 250 million 
years. Since the earth lies so far from the center, it is traveling 
through space wdth a very large velocity, amounting approximately 
to about 300 km per second. It can be shown that the effect of this 
large velocity is to make the intensity of cosmic radiation slightly 
greater on the side of the earth which faces the direction of motion, 
as compared with the opposite side. Just m the same way as more 
raindrops are found on the windscreen of a moving car than on the 
back window, so the motion of the earth is revealed by the greater 
intensity of cosmic rays on one side. This fact was predicted by 
Compton, and has been recently found experimentally. The varia- 
tion is quite smaU, being less than 1 percent in magnitude, but it seems 
fairly clear from the measurements of Hess and Steinmaurer Schon- 
land and of Kohlhorster, that the predicted variation does really exist. 
This is a very important result, for it confirms the view, that I have 
mentioned above, that the cosmic radiation cannot have its origin 
in our own galaxy. Figure 5 shows the results of the variation with 
sidereal time which confirm Comp ton's predictions.^ 

' Note in proof, Fehruarv 19S9. — It is now thought that there may be a sufl3ciently large magnetic field 
throughout the galaxy to deflect the rays very considerably. If this is the case, the above argument is in- 
valid, and so the galaxy still remains a possible place of origin of the rays. 

' NaU in proof, February 1939. — More recent measurements and calculations have thrown great doubt on 
the existence of a variation with siderial time of the magnitude demanded by Compton's theory. 



COSMIC RADIATION — BLACKETT 



183 



It is of interest to note that if the earth had been completely covered 
with cloud so that no stars could ever have been seen, it would still 
have been possible to show that the earth was moving very rapidly 
toward a certain direction in the heavens, or, more accurately, moving 
relative to something, the only property of the something being the 
power of producing cosmic rays. We will take it, therefore, that it is 
experimentally demonstrated that the cosmic rays are of extragalactic 
origin. 

We must, therefore, seek for some extragalactic origin for the rays 
which is uniformly distributed all round the earth. Now there are 
such bodies — in fact, the whole universe is filled with nebulae — and 
these nebulae are, in fact, nearly uniformly distributed around us. 




12 16 

Sidereal Time 

Figure 5.— Percentage variation in intensity of the cosmic rays with sidereal time. Curve, piedicted 
effect due to galactic rotation. Data, Hess and Steinmaurer; open circles, half-hour means; solid circles, 
3-hour means (Compton). 

Each nebula may be considered to be another galaxy similar in prin- 
ciple to our own, but in general of rather smaller size. But if we 
imagine that these nebulae are the origin of the cosmic rays, we meet 
with a great difficulty, for it has been shown that the rays do not 
come from our own galaxy, so why should they come from any other 
galaxy? These nebulae are of widely different types, but it seems 
probable that these different forms represent mainly different stages 
in very similar life histories. The youngest nebulae seem to consist 
of a great mass of diffuse gas which gradually condenses into stars, 
and develops finally, in many cases, into a spiral form such as is 
shown by the great nebula of Andromeda. Our galaxy is probably 
a nebula of this last type. Thus, it is, of course, possible that the 



184 ANNUAL. KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

cosmic rays are produced by nebulae in the early stages of their 
existence, but not in the later stages such as our galaxy is in now. 

There is another reason why the cosmic rays are unlikely to be 
produced by the stars in ordinary nebulae. This is the fact that the 
outside layers of nearly all stars are rather similar. These outside 
layers consist of a gaseous envelope at a temperature of, say, between 
5,000 and 20,000 degrees centigrade. Now since we know that the 
Sim does not produce cosmic rays, it is diflBcult to see why other stars, 
which have rather similar surface conditions, should do so. There 
are exceptions to this general similarity of the outside of the stars. 
The White Dwarfs are very small but very dense stars, and have 
surface conditions which are very different from that of our sun, and 
so might conceivably be considered possible origins for the rays. It 
must be remicmbered that cosmic rays, although very penetrating 
from our terrestrial standpoint in that they can penetrate some thou- 
sand meters of water, cannot be considered penetrating from the 
point of view of a stellar atmosphere. Any cosmic ray which was 
produced inside a star would never get out. It is thus clear that it 
is only from the outer layers of a star that the rays could come, and 
these outer layers are nearly all alike. 

Many other possible explanations of the origin of the rays have 
been given, but none put forward hitherto seem very plausible. It 
is possible, of course, that the rays have their origin in electric fields 
in extragalactic space, but there is no real reason to believe that such 
fields exist, and it is difficult, perhaps, to explain on this basis the 
isotropy of the rays. Then, Swann has suggested that they have 
their origin in sunspots — not sunspots in the sun, of course, but 
postulated spots in giant stars. 

Milne has predicted the existence of rays of very great energy from 
his cosmological theory. This theory requires also the existence of 
uncharged particles as well as electrically charged particles. 

Zwicky and Baade have sought the origin of the rays in the super- 
novae, that once every few hundred years appear in every nebula 
and grow to huge intensity for a period of a few weeks. Another 
class of suggested origins are the archeological hypotheses. The 
arguments in favor of these views are roughly as follows. It is 
very hard to find an origin here and now in the universe for the cosmic 
rays, so perhaps they were formed at the very beginning of time when 
the world was quite young and, supposedly, very different. It is, 
of course, obvious that if they have come from a very great distance 
they must have their origin in the distant past. Lemaitre is an 
exponent of one of these theories. He supposes that the rays have 
their origin in some kind of superradioactive process from a single 
primeval nucleus, from which has developed the imiverse as we know 
it now; but, as there does not seem to be any possibility as yet of 



COSMIC RADIATION — BLACKETT 185 

testing or distinguishing between these numerous rival hypotheses, 
it is probably not worth while spending very much time on such 
speculation. One more ingenious origin may, however, be mentioned. 
It has been suggested by Alfven that the rays arise from a kind of 
stellar cyclotron formed by the rotation of a double star. It is 
supposed that the combination of an electric field of one component 
of the double star, together with its magnetic field, may lead to the 
possibility of stable orbits for high-speed electrons very similar in 
principle to the orbits in the cyclotron of Lawrence; but here again 
no definite test of this hypothesis is possible. 



A WORLD OF CHANGE 



By Edward R. Weidlbin 
Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



The most interesting address that I could deliver to our radio audi- 
ence would be to pick out at random from this distinguished group of 
chemists individual persons and describe their work to illustrate the 
application of science which has transformed the world. Here are 
gathered scientists from all parts of the United States, as well as 
representatives from foreign countries, to exchange ideas, and in their 
presence it would not take one long to realize that something startlingly 
new and extremely important is happening in the world. 

Their gathering is important, and every university, research organi- 
zation, and industry should be represented. Every chemist realizes 
that scientists stand upon the shoulders of their predecessors. It is for 
this reason that their gain is exceptionally rapid. A scientific prin- 
ciple once established becomes the property of all science; a piece of 
apparatus once constructed becomes a pattern for later apparatus of 
the same kind. 

These leaders in the fields of science are the real authors of history. 
Their work is having more fundamental effects than all the laws that 
have been enacted or all the armies that have ever marched in triumph. 
The benefits that flow from their achievements are not limited by race 
or creed or political boundaries or even by time. They provide 
physical comforts for all men and gradually free their bodies from 
disease and their minds from the terrors of superstitions. They give 
their fellow scientists enchanting new views into the regions they 
explore. 

That this influence does not die with the individual is clearly illus- 
trated by the life of Charles Frederick Chandler, whose one hundredth 
birthday will be celebrated at Columbia University in October. Dr. 
Chandler was one of the founders of the American Chemical Society 
on April 6, 1876, and served as its president in 1881. He knew how, 
as few others who have lived, to open the portals of chemistry to a 
pleasing and attractive vista. He aroused curiosity and ardor. He 

' Address of the president of the American Chemical Society, Rochester meeting, September 9, 1937. 
Reprinted by permission from Science, vol. 86, No. 2229, September 17, 1937. 

187 



188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

was a mighty force in the introduction of chemistry into medicine. 
Wherever we go we find traces of this remarkable man — in industry, 
in sanitation, in the household and in the improvement, comfort, and 
safety of living. He was a great teacher, and his boys were his con- 
stant delight and ever-present care. 

If one were to probe the methods of an intent, aproned man busy 
with the test-tubes, Bunsen burners, flasks, and reagents in a chemical 
laboratory, he would hear a story fashioned of numbers. Strange that 
the infinite variety of the universe can be resolved into a series of 
numbers! But to the chemist there is little that is strange about it. 
Nature has demonstrated that the seemingly endless variety of cosmic 
phenomena, ranging from microscopic dust particles to gigantic stellar 
systems, is, after all, superficial. For chemistry has reduced the 
universe to 92 chemical elements or kinds of atoms, starting with 
simple hydrogen and going up the atomic scale to uranium, the most 
complex element known. All that we see about us can be resolved 
into these elements. The fascinating realm of nature, from the log 
that blazes in one's fireplace to the snowcapped mountain chain that 
lures in summer, is built up from these elements and their various 
combinations — evidence of the infinite variety of ways in which atoms 
and molecules can be joined together. Joined in one way, they make 
a useful textile; in another, a nourishing food. 

Not satisfied with the world as they see it, scientists have set their 
hands and minds to the task of changing the creations of nature or 
making new products which nature neglected to make. Nature makes 
her compounds for general purposes, and is not aware of industrial, 
scientific, nor medical needs. Hence nature is not perfect because not 
omniprovident, and the chemist often finds it necessary to improve on 
nature. Already he has prepared artificially a vast number of sub- 
stances that nature never dreamed of making, including dyes un- 
matched by any flower, aUoys that were not created when the earth 
was a cooling fiery ball, artificial silk and woolen fibers, stronger drugs 
and sweeter perfumes wrung from such a surprising source as coal-tar. 
Many products of life processes and a much larger number of new 
compounds related to them have been made by the chemist. He is 
changing life more rapidly and inexorably than ever before, and all 
about us are heard glowing words about "the new synthetic age." 

Our futm'e, to a large extent, is in these innocent-looking but aU- 
powerful test-tubes that you will see neatly arranged, row upon row, in 
any laboratory. 

If Aristotle were living today amid our chemical successes, his 
childhood belief in fairy stories probably would be reborn. The Greek 
philosopher interpreted the imiverse in only four elemental forms of 
matter — earth, air, water, and fire. These elements represented the 
four properties of dryness, cold, wetness, and warmth. Thus Aristotle 



A WORLD OF CHANGE — WEIDLEIN 189 

taught that all substances were composed of some sort of primordial 
stuff in combination with various amounts of the four elementary- 
properties. 

Out of Aristotle's doctrine of the elements grew the fascinating but 
futile work of the alchemists, who dreamed vainly of converting base 
metals into valuable gold. But, though futile, the efforts of the al- 
chemists were not altogether fruitless. Modern chemistry had its 
beginnings in the mystical vaporings that characterized their gloomy, 
dimly lighted workshops, full of strange vessels, spheres, portions of 
skeletons hanging from the ceiling and massive parchment books 
covered with hieroglyphics. Alchemy may be compared to the man 
who told his sons that he had left them gold buried somewhere in his 
vineyard. The sons dug deeply and earnestly, but found no gold. 
Their cultivation of the soil, however, produced a plentiful vintage. 
Similarly, the earnest but unsuccessful search for the transmutation of 
base metals into gold brought to light many useful discoveries and 
instructive experiments. 

These by-products of alchemy — chance discoveries of chemical 
elements, compounds and principles — were more important than the 
search for artificial gold. 

The first investigator to grasp the significance of the value of 
chemistry as a separate science was Robert Boyle, whose publication 
of The Skyptical Chymist in 1661 is often regarded as marldng the 
beginning of modern chemistry. Paracelsus, celebrated by Robert 
Browning, broke with the monks and alchemists, assailed the physi- 
cians who treated chickenpox with the aid of a soup made of the hearts 
and livers of vipers, and laid crudely the foundation of modern medical 
chemistry. Becher conceived of phlogiston as the active principle of 
fire. The downfall of the phlogiston theory began with the work of 
Joseph Priestley, preacher and scientist, who succeeded in isolating 
and identifying oxygen. 

Before even Priestley, however, was Cavendish, shy, eccentric 
misanthrope, who played with chemical apparatus and weighed the 
earth, in preference to spending his wealth, and who won immortahty 
as the first experimenter to reduce water to hydrogen and oxygen. 
But it was Lavoisier, later snatched from his laboratory by the French 
police to die under the guillotine, who molded chemistry into a science. 
The brilliant Frenchman, science's greatest loss to the Reign of 
Terror, formulated what is now known as the "law of the conservation 
of matter." This fundamental law states that in every chemical 
reaction the weight of the products is exactly equal to the weight of 
the substances which entered the reaction. Lavoisier also made a 
list of 33 chemical elements, explained the chemistry of fire and 
infused into the body of science a new spirit for accurate and patient 
measurement. 



190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

To ponder on the future life of man and on the ability of science to 
mold and reform the future is to lift oneself to a plane of high buoyance. 
In the words of the Earl of Balfour, in an address he made as president 
of the British Association, "The satisfaction it gives is almost esthetic 
in its intensity and quality. We feel the same sort of pleasurable 
shock as when, from the crest of some melancholy pass, we first see 
far below us the sudden glory of plain, river and mountain." 

What woman or man but is interested in tomorrow? Judged by 
the scientific marvels of the present day, what an age it will be! 

Photographs by radio; machines that seem to think; lights that 
pierce fog; gas made from water; cameras recording Ughtning bolts 
and taking pictures in the dark; 5-million-volt guns smashing atoms 
to wrest new secrets from nature. 

News put into type by direct wire; machines to administer anesthet- 
ics, record telephone calls, and measure the billionth of an inch ; other 
machines to measure the smoothness of roads and record the nature of 
accidents; ways to "hear" Ught and "see" sound. 

Fantastic? Yes, but they're here. 

These, and more, we have — although our elders would have scoffed 
if they had been told that these things would come. But a plane 
roarmg from ocean to ocean between sunrise and sunset is nothing new. 
People talk across the ocean every day by telephone. The time may 
come when women will match fabrics by television, when their 
kitchens will make present-day luxury seem like the drudgery our 
grandmothers endured. 

It is impossible, however, to fathom truly what tomorrow may be 
lil^e. Only the rare human mind can free itself from the fetters of 
today's accepted forms and thinlv in new terms of a different age. 
The first automobiles were cranked by hand. They broke many an 
arm, but people accepted the fact because no mechanical way of 
starting a car could ever work. Yet research, using a sleeve with 
threads like a screw, found a way to crank the motor; it had never 
dawned on science that it couldn't be done! 

The pace of the advance has quickened. The resources of science, 
more closely knit, have speeded progress amazingly in the past 25 
years. That pace will not slacken so long as human needs must be 
met. If what has happened already seems incredible, what are we 
likely to see in the not-distant future? 

For we know full well that tomorrow probably won't resemble this 
age in the least. Too many "impossibihties" have come true in our 
own life-span. We have not yet forgotten that "man will never fly"; 
that conversing without wires was labeled an absurdity; that "nothing 
can ever be done" about typhoid, tuberculosis, or malaria. 

Yet men have flown around the world, talked by wireless across 
the seas, stamped out plagues. The oxcart has made way for the 



A WORLD OF CHA:N'GE — WEIDLEIN 191 

soaring plane; the laboring locomotive for its silent, streamlined 
cousin; the mechanical music box for the miracle of radio. 

A finger moves a dial and invokes the human voice. But the tele- 
phone is an old story. Manufactured ice and mechanical refrigera- 
tion come instantly to the rescue in hot midsummer days. But we 
already forget the waste and illness of the era before man-made refriger- 
ation. The photograph of a distinguished visitor spans the continent 
in a few seconds. Telephoto, too, however, becomes prosaic. A 
modem dryad wears a gown that last year was part of a tree. Yes, 
but we grow to expect beautiful new fabrics from the commonest 
substances, even glass. 

If yesterday's miracles are today's commonplaces, what an age 
tomorrow may be, with science as its constant guide, insistent on 
solving human needs, making the improbable come true. 

What kind of homes, for instance, shall we be living in by 2000 
A. D.? What kind of furnishings shall we have? How shall we heat 
our homes? Shall we all be living in the coimtry or in some new kind 
of city? What kinds of recreation ishall we have? What kinds of 
planes, automobiles, trains? What kinds of bridges, tunnels, viaducts, 
ramps? What materials and substances shall we wear and eat? How 
much leisure shall we have for the art of hving? We dare not more 
than guess. 

For most prophecy is untrustworthy. We all are too likely to 
project the present into the future, forgetting that the future may go 
clear around us, or scrap much that we accept. Scientists speak 
casually of harnessing the winds for power, of drawing upon the heat 
of the sun, of using even the surge of the tides for power to replace 
fuel that by then may be gone. Laws will not prevent men from 
thinking. And so long as they think, so long as they refuse to accept 
the present age as perfect, advances will be made. 

Back of all change is the wholesome spirit of discontent. There 
must be a way to make a better stocking, to create a more durable 
fabric, to make a better dust pan than those now sold. Dissatisfaction 
with something less than perfection, desires for something better, 
refusal to accept things as they are — these are the urges that lead to 
improvement. These, and a special quality of open-mindedness that 
keeps the present from closing the door to the future. 

Chemistry is constantly seeking through research natural facts on 
which to base new truths, which bring about these changes. But she 
cannot invoke them alone, without the aid of her sister sciences, any 
one of which may at any moment find a new bit of knowledge which 
will lead the others along new trails. This world-wide collaboration 
is really the hope of scientific progress today. 

Modern research is characterized by its complexity and the variety 
of phases which it presents. In the latter half of the past century and 



192 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

the beginning of the present, it was still possible for an individual, 
working alone, with comparatively limited facilities, to achieve epoch- 
making results in the borderline fields of research. The surface has 
now been well explored and it is consequently necessary to probe 
deeper and to enUst the cooperation of trained specialists in such 
widely diversified fields as chemistry, physics, biology, and engineering. 
Elaborate equipment and apparatus are now required for the conduct 
of researches, for they must be performed on a mathematically correct 
basis with constant control of all variables. 

There were ages when science moved haltingly or drooped in dis- 
couragement beneath the indifference of hostile rulers and super- 
stitious peoples. 

Today the speed of communications alone has woven the world of 
science more tightly, so that each bit of fresh knowledge is known 
everywhere as soon as it is proved. It no longer takes months for a 
new fact or method to filter from nation to nation, or years for it to 
be practically applied. 

Considering the accelerated pace of recent years and the rate at 
which science has revolutionized our daily lives, it would be easy to sit 
back complacently and call this an age of scientific miracles, to remark 
that we had reached the ultimate in development, that there could 
be no more worlds to conquer. 

It would be easy to say it, but your chemist, above all men, could 
tell you it is not true. He knows that chemistry, though brUHant its 
gains, has only scratched the surface — knows how pitifully meager is 
the hoard of knowledge so far acquired. In physics, in chemistry, in 
engineering, in medicine — the dearth of knowledge is the same. The 
swift progress that has been made must not make us overconfident 
and lose us that humility which we must retain if we are to be dispas- 
sionate searchers after truth. 

If we take the time to glance back through the pages of history, we 
can see how easily each age has fallen into the error of believing that it 
represented the ultimate in civilization. There was a time when Europe, 
steeped in its troubles, guessed of no new land or opportunity like 
America. The Middle Ages seemed highly developed to its own 
peoples, but most of the great inventions and discoveries of science 
have come long since then. Even as late as 1900, millions felt that we 
had gained as much from science as we were likely to win. Yet in 
the short span of 35 years we have seen the first "red-devil" auto- 
mobile become a necessity for the masses, turn transportation ideas 
upside down, revolutionize our industrial structure. We have seen 
radio burst upon the world and link distant lands by new seven-league 
boots. We have seen early ventures in flight give another dimension 
to transport. Television next, and meanwhile scores of new products, 
new foods, new industries of which, a generation ago, no one guessed. 



A WORLD OF CHANGE — WEIDLEIN 193 

Wonders indeed! Yet science realizes how truly little headway has 
been made, how much more remains to be done. 

Scientific research is still young, even in the life of the universities, 
which are primarily responsible for its existence. Having gained the 
spirit of research from the universities, the industries have applied its 
methods to their own affairs with really amazing results. During the 
last 25 years the number of industrial research laboratories in the 
United States has grown from a very few to more than 2,000, which 
accounts for the great change that has taken place in our standard of 
living. It was chemistry, perhaps more than any other science, that 
taught business men the true significance of pure and applied research. 

Without the evolution of scientific investigations in the universities, 
industrial laboratories might never have come into existence. Be- 
sides the very idea of research, the universities have furnished the 
industries with men possessing knowledge not only of the underlying 
scientific facts and theories but of the methods and techniques of in- 
vestigational work. The man with a true scientific mind is always 
open to change. From the universities also proceeds much of the 
basic knowledge of science on which the industries of today have been 
built and which will be the foundation for the industries of the future. 
Accordingly, this essential contributory part of our universities should 
be recognized and nurtured by the industries. Colleges and schools 
have invested some $300,000,000 in chemical buildings and equipment. 
Real progress is made through the cooperation of pure science, 
industrial research, and the industrialists. 

The expenditures for industrial research in this country have in- 
creased steadily. The chemical industry, the largest cultivator and 
supporter of research, has enlarged its expenditures on laboratory 
investigations ; the food industry has likewise increased its appropria- 
tions for research. The metal-working field, which during the depres- 
sion stopped much of its research, is now resuming laboratory investi- 
gations on a large scale. Researches have lately been accelerated in 
the fields of building materials, air conditioning, synthetic fibers, 
organic chemicals, plastics, "tray" agriculture, and new sources of 
motor fuel. 

It may, moreover, be observed that the industries which engaged to 
the largest extent in scientific research emerged from the depression 
first and did the most to aid national recovery. 

It must be remembered that it is only through applied knowledge 
that the people have gained the material blessings of our civilization. 
Every useful agent in our civilization is the product of our industry, 
and it is only through the industries that these new products of civili- 
zation can go to the people. New mechanisms, such as the telegraph, 
the telephone, the electric light, the X-ray, new medicines, dyes, and 
new alloys come to us only through the industries. We often hear it 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

said that some man eminent in science has "given" his results to the 
people. That is, in nearly every instance, nonsense. Rontgen's dis- 
covery of X-rays, upon which he took out no patents, could go to the 
people only by the use of X-ray bulbs, and these X-ray bulbs were 
manufactured and improved by various corporations, through whose 
factories they went to the people. 

The classical example is, of course, the work of Faraday, on electro- 
magnetic induction, on which is based ultimately the whole immense 
development of the electrical industry; a development not achieved, of 
com'se, without an enormous amount of capital and directed industrial 
research. 

We are thinldng, too, of industry not only depending upon many 
sciences but being in a real sense science itself. Science pursued in 
this broad manner will enrich itself and the world. The true manu- 
facturing function consists in making the best thing possible in the 
most economical way. It does not mean practicing the art through 
the best tradition, but means pursuing the art with the aid of modern 
scientific Ivnowledge. A good illustration is in the field of synthetic 
organic chemistry. The development of organic materials of pre- 
determined characteristics to fill definite needs in industry has been 
employed on a wide scale only in recent years. The more common 
uses, such as the acetylene flame for cutting or joining metal shapes in 
the steel industry or the use of glycerol trinitrate or trinitro toluol as 
detonation agents in mining operations, are generally loiown. How- 
ever, a wholly new degree of change is being brought about by inter- 
weaving of synthetic organic chemicals with other products. National 
defense against human aggressors as well as sanitary defense against 
microorganisms in their modern forms depend largely on synthetic 
organic chemicals as key products. The modern automobile and air- 
plane, the outstanding accomplishments of the twentieth century to 
date, would be far from their present standard of excellence without 
the regulating effect of the synthetic products used in their construc- 
tion and operation. Antilmock fuels, special lubricants, durable 
tires and other rubber goods, antifreeze materials, lacquer coatings, 
safety glass, brake fluids, plastic products, among other featm^es, have 
permitted the remarkable degree of perfection and low cost which 
these unique products of our generation have attained. A new ali- 
phatic organic chemical industry was created just prior to the depres- 
sion and has had a rapid and continuous growth since 1929. 

Research in the metallurgical industry has resulted in metals with- 
out which the production of these new aliphatic organic chemicals, 
and other processes, needing to be woiked at high pressia^es and high 
temperatures, would have been impossible. 

Chemistry has likewise played a major role in the production of 
better and cheaper motor fuel. Cracking, hydrogenation, polymeriza- 



A WORLD OF CHANGE — WEIDLEIH 195 

tion became common terms in the industry. The increasing demand 
for power plants has resulted in more severe conditions for the lubri- 
cants used. Automobile and airplane engine oils are exposed to liigh 
temperatures and greater loads each time there is an increase in the 
horsepower yield per cubic inch of cylinder capacity. Under these 
severe conditions oils are more likely to deteriorate and fail in service. 
Some progress is being made in the development of addition agents to 
oils for increasing the oihness and film strength under severe condi- 
tions. By analogy with the well-established practice of adding anti- 
oxidants to gasoline to prevent gum formation, there is a development 
under way for adding antioxidants and similar inhibitors to lubricating 
oils. These may serve to prevent the formation of sludge by oxidation 
or to prevent corrosion of bearing surfaces, this by some mechanism 
not yet understood. It is possible that some of these difficulties may 
be eliminated by change of the engine design so that the lubricants 
will not be punished so severely. However this may develop, it is 
interesting to note that chemical research is suggesting a remedy for 
the engineering difficulty — difficulties caused by over-rapid engineering 
advances. 

Our home-construction industry has received much criticism during 
recent years, and, as the basis of value received for cost and effort, 
it must be conceded that this criticism is largely deserved. Here is 
a field that has possibilities of a "world of change." That such a 
subject has reached the stage of public discussion, however, indicates 
that improvement has already begun. Our homes may not seem to 
us to be a chemical project but, in countless applications of plastic 
materials, quick-drying lacquers, and synthetic fibers, we may con- 
fidently expect new types of assembly to emerge with greatly reduced 
costs while giving sanitary, noiseless, fireproof, moisture-proof, and 
vermin-proof construction, in keeping with known possibilities. Let 
us take a simple example such as a cookstove. Practically every 
housewife complains of cooking over a hot stove in the summertime, 
and conditions are almost as difficult any time during the year. This 
inconvenience is caused by waste heat, which, if scientifically con- 
trolled, would eliminate the discomfort, economize on the fuel bill, and 
also save time. There has recently been constructed a stove along 
these scientific lines, using both new and old materials, which will give 
a heat efficiency of 80 percent instead of the average yield of 20 percent. 
In other words, 8 pounds of coal will cook sufficient food for a family 
of 12 per day. You are quite likely to see on the market in the future 
a combination coal cookstove and refrigerator in which the waste heat 
from the cook stove will operate the refrigeration unit. Glassware 
for cooking purposes has become a common article of commerce, but 
there was a time when glass was used only for windows and for orna- 
mental purposes. The new tunnel under the Hudson River is to be 

114728—39 14 



196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

lined with glass. The first all-glass building was recently constructed 
in North Carolina, and others are under construction. Glass in 
fibrous form will find its most widespread application as an insulating 
material for use in construction. Textiles made from glass, because 
of their resistance to acids, heat, and moisture, should find a variety 
of apphcations in both homes and industry. It is interesting to 
observe, however, that some of these new products are the ripening 
fruit of seeds planted many years ago. New mechanical devices and 
new application of basic scientific principles have made practicable 
the evolution of these new products. A good illustration is tempered 
glass, which was experimented with as early as 1875, and has only 
recently become a commercial product. The mechanical ice box did 
not come into its own until chemistry supplied the proper refrigerants. 
The home-construction industry can hardly yet be said to have 
started its real race. 

It is believed that through orderly and persistent research industry 
will also be able to absorb much of the surplus crops of American 
farms. Cellulose is "stored sunshine." The alchemists talked of 
storing sunshine, the English speculators of the time of John Law 
floated companies for the purpose, the chemical industry of the future 
will harness sunshine in the form of agricultural byproducts and con- 
vert them into useful materials. 

A striking aspect of the march of organized research is the emphasis 
in recent years on staple commodities, particularly those of agricul- 
tural origin, as industrial raw materials. New products have nat- 
urally been forced to pave their way to public acceptance by technical 
information obtained in the laboratory. The volumes involved in 
each case were, of course, at first small, m fact so insignificant that 
they were disregarded by the industries they were affecting. Change 
is too often considered as a sudden movement, which is misleading, 
as it is more often a gradual evolution. 

To state the situation another way, new products were continually 
coming into prominence through the pressure of research, while the 
materials they were in part displacing lacked the informative back- 
ground necessary to meet this aggressive competition. 

As a tangible example, the case of cotton may be mentioned. All 
the world is familiar with the giant strides of rayon, its "college- 
trained" rival. On top of such competition comes the falling off of 
export volume, as a result of increasing quantities of cotton grown 
abroad. 

Forward-looking men with constructive ideas on means of improving 
the economic condition of the South see here a great need for a vigorous 
research program of the cotton industry. Many of our Southern 
States are dependent on this one crop, and their people are trained, 
their industries are geared to a one-crop economy. 



A WORLD OF CHANGE — WEIDLEIN 197 

It is significant that developments in increasing the utilization of 
cotton have in the past been made almost altogether without any- 
concerted action or conscious direction on the part of the cotton 
industry. This situation encourages one to beUeve that systematic, 
cooperative effort on the part of growers, manufacturers, and various 
research organizations, in developing new uses for cotton and in ex- 
panding present uses, should be much more effective in stimulating 
increased demand than haphazard, individual effort. 

Sugar is another product that is vital in our national economic and 
social system. Sugar occupies an important place in the normal diet 
of all the people. It likewise is one of the cheapest, purest raw ma- 
terials available upon which to base a new chemical industry. This 
new industry is now in the process of evolution, and today chemicals 
made from sugar are entering into our industrial processes to produce 
new and better products. 

The scientists are doing the fundamental work. Industry is pion- 
eering the commercialization of these new products, and eventually 
the agriculturist wiU have to supply the raw material because of the 
new demand created. So one often may know where a research be- 
gins, but rarely where it will end. 

All this requires knowledge, will, and action. The knowledge 
which will find these new uses is a product of research. It will come 
out of the laboratory where the chemist is breaking down the raw 
materials we caU cotton, sweetpotatoes, and com into cellulose and 
starch and these again into the tiny atoms of which they are consti- 
tuted. It is these atoms that are the chemist's raw materials. He 
may buy them in the form of cotton or soybeans or milk, but he sells 
them in the form of rayon, automobile parts, organic acids, new glues 
and gums and dextrins, new building materials for our homes, new 
paints and varnishes. These new uses require as raw materials the 
molecular aggregates which we take off the land in annual crops. It 
is true that the chemist can synthesize them in his laboratory, and 
some of them he wUl undoubtedly produce there, but this year and 
for many years to come the simshine and the rain, the fertility of our 
soils, and the patient labor of our farmers will grow the crops industry 
needs more cheaply than the chemist can make them. 

The better living conditions secured through the increased wealth 
provided by science, together with the application of science to hygiene 
and medicine, have considerably increased the average expectancy of 
life. This great achievement in public health is sufficient to justify 
the belief that those who call our industrial civilization mean in 
quality have narrow views and scant ideaUsm. 

Chemistry and medicine are establishing a more cooperative pro- 
gram of research, and a good example is some work that has been 
under way since 1926 on the treatment of pneumonia. 



198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

The results of this teamwork between chemists and medical scien- 
tists have been of outstanding importance. Woven throughout 
the whole progress of the investigation is ample human drama cloaked 
from the layman by such chemical names as hydroxyethylhydro- 
cupreine, apocupreine, ethylap)Ocupreine, hydroxyethylapocupreine, 
and other necessarily abstruse terms. Briefly, the problem was less 
to find a compound efl^ective with pneumonia and allied diseases than 
to find one that would not harm the eyes. Certain of the cinchona 
alkaloids were loiown to be effective in treating pneumonia, but they 
were not to be used without great probability of eye damage. Such 
a dilemma is, of course, a challenge to the chemist and to the physician. 
The results so far indicate the discovery of cinchona alkaloid deriva- 
tives, as new compounds, which give the profession of medicine what 
it has long sought — a safe treatment of all types of pneumonia which 
will not harm the human eye and therefore can be both effective and 
safe. 

To date, close to 80 preparations have been tested biologically by 
the medical collaborators. Some were found to cause no eye disturb- 
ance, but to have little activity with pneumonia. The most promising 
drug found, showing greater activity against the disease, lower 
toxicity than any of the others, has also been tested in scores of clinical 
cases, which have demonstrated a very high tolerance in the human 
being to the drug, absence of any untoward visual results and a high 
proportion of recoveries from severe pneumococcic infections of all 
types. 

The investigations must go on, the clinical trials must be conducted 
on a wider base, production of the compound on a large scale must be 
undertaken. All these projects are now under way, and the chances 
of ultimate success are very promising. 

When trained minds and proper faciUties are applied to specific 
problems, practical solutions are expected. If they were not forth- 
coming — that would be news. 

Fifty years ago, Europe led the world, chemically speaking. Far- 
seeing men predicted even then that in another half-turn of the century 
the chemical leadership of the world would pass to America. This 
change has come about, and the American Chemical Society as an 
organization deserves a large share of the credit. The scientists of 
each nation have worked with might and main to surpass one another 
in chemical discoveries; and the advantage that we have gained has 
been largely due to the cooperative spirit generated by our society 
activities. A nation must be able to stand chemically alone unless it 
would be subservient, so utterly does present-day civilization depend 
upon chemistry for a thousand-and-one everyday foods and materials. 
And it grows more and more apparent that to help one's country to be 
chemically independent is the profoundest kind of patriotism. 



A WORLD OF CHANGE WEIDLEIN 199 

The objective of scientific research today, moreover, is broader 
than the solution of technological and chemical problems. It takes 
into its view the responsibility for enlivening the imagination of the 
masses who will be the chief beneficiaries of these new ways of living, 

A true scientist never grows old in his way of thinking. His mind 
is constantly working to improve his surroundings and to better 
understand the laws of nature. He expects to live in a changing 
world. 



TEANSMUTATION OF MATTER 



By Lord Rutherford, D. Sc, LI. D., Ph. D., F. R. S. 



Toward the close of the nineteenth century, when it seemed cer- 
tain that the atoms of the elements were unchangeable by the forces 
then at our command, a discovery was made which has revolutionized 
our conception of the nature and relations of the elements. I refer 
to the discovery in 1896 of the radioactivity of the two heaviest 
elements, uranium and thorium. It was soon made clear that this 
radioactivity is a sign that the atoms of these elements are undergoing 
spontaneous transmutation. At any moment, a small fraction of the 
atoms concerned become unstable and break up with explosive 
violence, hurling out either a charged atom of helium, known as an 
a-particle, or a swift electron of light mass called a jS-particle. As a 
result of these explosions, a new radioactive element is formed, and 
the process of transmutation once started continues through a 
number of stages. Each of the radioactive elements formed in this 
way breaks up according to a simple universal law but at very differ- 
ent rates. In a surprisingly short time, these successive transforma- 
tions were disentangled and more than 30 new types of elements 
brought to light, while the simple chemical relations between them 
were soon made clear. 

We had thus been given a vision of a new and startling subatomic 
world where atoms break up spontaneously with an enormous release 
of energy quite uninfluenced by the most powerful agencies at our 
disposal. Apart from uranium and thorium and the elements derived 
from them, only a few other elements showed even a feeble trace of 
radioactivity. The great majority of our ordinary elements appeared 
to be permanently stable under ordinary conditions on our earth. 
Science was then faced with the problem, whether artificial methods 
could be found to transmute the atoms of the ordinary elements. 
Before this problem could be attacked with any hope of success, it 
was necessary to know more of the actual constitution of atoms. 
This information was provided by the rise of the nuclear theory of 

1 Shortly before his death on October 19, 1937, Lord Rutherford completed the presidential address which 
he proposed to deliver at the meeting of the Indian Science Congress Association on January 3-9, 1938. 
The latter part of the address is here reproduced and represents Lord Rutherford's last pronouncement on 
a subject with which his name will always be associated. Reprinted by permission from Nature, vol. 141, 
No. 3558, January 8, 1938. 

201 



202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

atomic structure, which I first suggested in 1911. The essential 
controlling feature of all atoms was found to reside in a very minute 
central nucleus which carried a positive charge and contained most 
of the mass of the atom, A relation of unexpected simplicity was 
found to connect the atoms of all the elements. The ordinary prop- 
erties of an atom are defined by a whole number, which represents 
the number of units of resultant positive charge carried by the 
nucleus. This varies from 1 for hydrogen to 92 for the heaviest 
element uranium, and, with few exceptions, all the intervening 
numbers correspond to known elements. 

On this view of atomic structure it was evident that, to bring about 
the transmutation of an atom, it was necessary in some way to alter 
the charge or mass of the nucleus or both together. Since the nucleus 
of an atom must be held together by very powerful forces of some kind, 
this could only be effected by bringing a concentrated source of energy 
of some kind to bear on the individual nucleus. The most energetic 
projectile available at that time was the swift a-particle spontaneously 
ejected from radioactive substances. If a large number of a-particles 
were fired at random at a sheet of matter, it was to be expected that one 
of them must occasionally approach very closely to the nucleus of 
any light atom in its path. In such a close encounter, the nucleus 
must be violently disturbed, and possibly under favorable conditions 
the a-particle might actually enter the nuclear structure. 

This mode of attack upon the nucleus at once proved successful, I 
found in 1919 that nitrogen could be transformed by bombardment 
with fast a-particles. The process of transmutation is now clear. 
Occasionally an a-particle actually enters the nitrogen nucleus and 
forms with it a new unstable nucleus which instantly breaks up with 
the emission of a fast proton (hydrogen nucleus) and the formation of a 
stable isotope of oxygen of mass 17. About a dozen of the light ele- 
ments were found to be transformed in a similar way. The protons 
liberated in the nuclear explosions were at first counted by observing 
the flashes of light (scintillations) produced in phosphorescent zinc 
sulphide. This method was slow and very trying to the eyes of the 
observers. Progress, however, became more rapid and definite when 
electrical methods of counting individual fast particles were developed. 
These electrical counters, mainly depending on the use of electron 
tubes for magnifying small currents, have now reached such a stage of 
perfection that we are able to count automatically individual fast 
particles like a-particles and protons even though they enter the detect- 
ing chamber at a rate as fast as 10,000 per minute. By other special 
devices, we are in like manner able to count individual /3-particles. 
In this connection, I must not omit to mention that wonderful instru- 
ment, the Wilson expansion chamber, which makes visible to us the 
actual tracks of flying fragments of atoms resulting from an atomic 



TRANSMUTATION OF MATTER — RUTHERFORD 203 

explosion. These remarkable devices have played an indispensable 
part in the rapid growth of knowledge during the last few years. It 
is to be emphasized that progress in scientific discovery is greatly 
influenced by the development of new technical methods and of new 
devices for measurement. With the growing complexity of science, 
the development of special techniques is of ever-increasing importance 
for the advance of knowledge. 

Up to the year 1932, experiments on transmutation were confined 
to the use of a-particles for bombarding purposes. It became clear 
that the process of transformation was in most cases complex, since 
groups of protons with different but characteristic energies were ob- 
served when a single element was bombarded. This led to the con- 
ception that discrete energy levels existed within a nucleus, and that 
under some conditions part of the excess energy was sometimes released 
in the form of a quantum of high-frequency radiation. 

The stage was now set for a great advance, and four new discoveries 
of outstanding importance were made in rapid succession in the period 
1931-33. I refer to the discovery of the positive electron by Anderson 
in 1931, of the neutron by Chad wick in 1932, of artificial radioactivity 
by M. and Mme. Curie- Joliot in 1933 and of the transmutation of the 
elements by purely artificial methods first shown by Cockcroft and 
Walton in 1932. 

The discovery of the neutron — that uncharged particle of mass 
nearly 1 — was the result of a close study of the effects produced in the 
Hght element beryllium when bombarded by a-particles. It is note- 
worthy that the proton and neutron, which are now believed to be the 
essential units with which all atomic nuclei are built up, owe their 
recognition to a study of the transmutation of matter by a-particles. 

Before the discovery of the neutron, it had been perforce assumed 
that nuclei must in some way be built up of massive protons and light 
negative electrons. Theories of nuclear structure became much more 
amenable to calculation when the nucleus was considered to be an 
aggregate of parts like the proton and neutron which have nearly the 
same mass. There was no longer any need to assume that either the 
positive or the negative electron has an independent existence in the 
nuclear structure. We are still uncertain of the exact relation, if any, 
between the neutron and the proton. The neutron appears to be 
slightly more massive than the proton, but it is generally believed, 
although no definite proof is available, that the proton and neutron 
within a nucleus are mutually convertible under certain conditions. 
For example, the change of a proton into a neutron within the nucleus 
should lead to the appearance of a free positive electron, while con- 
versely the change of a neutron into a proton gives rise to a free 
negative electron. In this way it appears possible to account for the 



204 ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

observed fact that either positive or negative electrons are emitted by 
a large group of radioactive elements to which I will now refer. 

In the early experiments on transmutation by a-particles, it was 
supposed that a stable nucleus was always formed after the emission 
of a fast proton. The investigations of M. and Mme. Curie-Joliot 
showed that in some cases elements were formed which, while momen- 
tarily stable, ultimately broke up slowly, exactly like the natural 
radioactive bodies. Most of these radioactive bodies formed by 
artificial methods break up with the expulsion of fast negative elec- 
trons, but in a few cases positive electrons are emitted. Since the 
presence of these radioactive bodies can be easily detected, and their 
chemical properties readily determined, this new method of attack on 
the problem of transmutation has proved of great value. Nearly a 
hundred of these radioactive bodies are now known, produced in a 
great variety of ways. Some arise from the bombardment by fast 
a-particles, others by bombardment with protons or deuterons. As 
Fermi and his colleagues have shown, neutrons, and particularly slow 
neutrons, are extraordinarily effective in the formation of such radio- 
active bodies. On account of its absence of charge, the neutron 
enters freely into the nuclear structure of even the heaviest element, 
and in many cases causes its transmutation. For example, a number 
of these radioactive bodies are produced when the two heaviest ele- 
ments, uranium and thorium, are bombarded by slow neutrons. In 
the case of uranium, as Hahn and Meitner have shown, the radioactive 
bodies so formed break up in a succession of stages like the natural 
radioactive bodies, and give rise to a number of transuranic elements 
of higher atomic number than uranium (92). These radioactive ele- 
ments have the chemical properties to be expected from the higher 
homologues of rhenium, osmium, and iridium of atomic numbers 93, 
94, and 95. 

These artificial radioactive bodies in general represent unstable 
varieties of the isotopes of known elements which have a limited life. 
No doubt such transient radioactive elements are still produced by 
transmutation in the furnace of our sun, where the thermal motions 
of the atoms must be very great. These radioactive elements would 
rapidly disappear as soon as the earth cooled down after separation 
from the sun. On this view, uranium and thorium are to be regarded 
as practically the sole survivors in our earth of a large group of radio- 
active elements, owing to the fact that their time of transformation 
is long compared with the age of our planet. 

It is of interest to note what an important part the a-particle, which 
is itself a product of transformation of the natural radioactive bodies, 
has played in the growth of our knowledge of artificial transmutation. 
It is to be remembered, too, that our main source of neutrons for 
experimental pm-poses is provided by the bombardment of ^beryllium 



TRANSMUTATION OF MATTER — RUTHERFORD 205 

with a-particles. The amount of radium available in our laboratories 
is, however, limited, and it was early recognized that if our knowledge 
of transmutation was to be extended, it was necessary to have a copious 
supply of fast particles of all kinds for bombarding purposes. It is 
well known that enormous numbers of protons and deuterons, for 
example, can be easily produced by the passage of the electric dis- 
charge through hydrogen and deuterium (heavy hydrogen). To be 
effective for transmutation purposes, however, these charged particles 
must be given a high speed by accelerating them in a strong electric 
field. This has involved the use of apparatus on an engineering scale 
to provide voltages as high as 1 million volts or more, and the use of 
fast pumps to maintain a good vacuum. 

A large amomit of difficult technical work has been necessary to 
produce such iiigh D. C. voltages and to find the best methods of apply- 
ing them to the accelerating system. In Cambridge, these high 
voltages are produced by multiplying the voltage of a transformer 
by a system of condensers and rectifiers; in the United States of 
America by the use of a novel type of electrostatic generator, first 
developed by Van der Graaf . Professor Lawrence, of the University 
of California, has devised an ingenious instrument called a "cyclotron" 
in which the charged particles are automatically accelerated in 
multiple stages. This involves the use of huge electromagnets and 
very powerful electric oscillators. By this method he has succeeded 
in producing streams of fast particles wliich have energies as high as 
the a-particle ejected from radioactive substances. Undoubtedly this 
type of apparatus will prove of great importance in giving us a supply 
of much faster particles than we can hope to produce by the more 
direct methods. 

It was at first thought that very high potentials of the order of 
several million volts would be required to obtain particles to study 
the transmutation of elements. Here, however, the development of 
the theory of wave-mechanics came to the aid of the experimenter, 
for Gamow showed that there was a small chance that comparatively 
slow bombarding particles might enter a nucleus. This theoretical 
conclusion has been completely verified by experiment. In the case 
of a light element like lithium, transformation effects can be readily 
observed with protons of energy as low as 20,000 volts. Of coiu'se, 
the amount of transformation increases rapidly with rise of voltage. 

The study of the transmutation of elements by using accelerated 
protons and deuterons as bombarding particles has given us a wealth 
of new information. The capture of the proton or deuteron by a 
nucleus leads in many cases to types of transmutation of unusual 
interest. For example, the bombardment of the isotope of lithium of 
mass 7 by protons leads to the formation of a beryllium nucleus of 
mass 8 with a great excess of energy. This immediately breaks up 



206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

into two ct-particles shot out in nearly opposite directions. When 
boron 11 is bombarded by protons, a carbon nucleus of mass 12 is 
formed which breaks up in most cases into three a-p articles. The 
deuteron is in some respects even more effective than the proton as a 
transmuting agent. When deuterons are used to bombard a com- 
pound of deuterium, previously imknown isotopes of hydrogen and of 
hehum of mass 3 are formed, while fast protons and neutrons are 
liberated. The bombardment of beryllium by very fast deuterons 
gives rise to a plentiful supply of neutrons. Lawrence has shown that 
the bombardment of bismuth by very fast deuterons leads to the pro- 
duction of a radioactive bismuth isotope which is identical with the 
well-known natural radioactive product radium E. Many artificial 
radioactive elements can be produced, often in great intensity. For 
example, the bombardment of common salt by fast deuterons gives 
rise to a radioactive isotope of sodium. This breaks up with a half 
period of 15 hours, emitting not only fast j8-particles but also 7-rays at 
least as penetrating as those from radium. 

It may well be that in course of time such artificial radioactive 
elements may prove a useful substitute for radium in therapeutic work. 
By these methods also, such intense sources of neutrons can be pro- 
duced that special precautions have to be taken for the safety of the 
operators of the apparatus. 

Sufficient, I think, has been said to illustrate the variety and interest 
of the transmutations produced by these bombardment methods. It 
should, however, be pointed out that transmutation in some cases can 
be effected by transferring energy to a nucleus by means of 7-rays of 
high quantum energy instead of by a material particle. For example, 
the deuteron can be broken up into its components, the proton and 
neutron, by the action of the 7-rays from radium or thorium. As a 
result of the bombardment of lithium by protons, 7-rays of extraor- 
dinarily great quantum, energy as high as 17 million volts are strongly 
emitted. Bothe has recentty shown that these high-energy rays are 
able to transmute a number of atoms, neutrons usually being emitted 
in the process. 

Some simple laws appear to hold in all individual transformations 
so far examined. Nuclear charge is always conserved, and where 
heavy particles are emitted, so also is energy when account is taken 
of the equivalence of mass and energy. Certain difficulties arise with 
regard to the conservation of energy in cases where light positive and 
negative electrons are emitted during transmutation, and there is still 
much discussion on this important question. 

The study of the transmutation of matter has been extraordinarily 
fruitful in results of fundamental importance. In addition to the 
a-particle, it has disclosed to us the existence of those two building 
units of nuclei, the proton and neutron. It has greatly widened our 



TRANSMUTATION OF MATTER — RUTHERFORD 207 

conception of the varieties of atomic nuclei which can exist in Nature. 
Not only has it led to the discovery of about 100 new radioactive 
elements, but also of several stable isotopes of known elements, like 
^H, ^He, *Be, which had previously been unsuspected. It has greatly 
extended our knowledge of the ways in which nuclei can be built up 
and broken down, and has brought to our attention the extraordinary 
violence of some of the nuclear explosions which occur. The great 
majority of our elements have been transmuted by the bombardment 
method, and in the case of the light elements which have been most 
carefully studied, a great variety of modes of transmutation has been 
established. 

Rapid progress has been made, but much still remains to be done 
before we can hope to understand the detailed structure and stability 
of different forms of atomic nuclei and the origin of the elements. I 
cannot but reflect on the amazing contrast between my fu'st experi- 
ment on the transmutation of nitrogen in the University of Man- 
chester in 1919 and the large-scale experiments on transmutation 
which are now in progress in many parts of the world. In the one 
case, imagine an observer in a dark room with very simple apparatus 
painfully counting with a microscope a few faint scintiUations origi- 
nating from the bombardment of nitrogen by a source of a-particles. 
Contrast this with the large-scale apparatus now in use for experiments 
on transmutation in Cambridge. A great hall contains massive and 
elaborate machinery, rising tier on tier, to give a steady potential of 
about 2 million volts. Nearby is the tall accelerating column with 
a power station on top, protected by great corona shields — reminding 
one of a photograph in the film of Wells's, The Shape of Things to 
Come. The intense stream of accelerated particles falls on the target 
in the room below, with thick walls to protect the workers from stray 
radiation. Here is a band of investigators using complicated electrical 
devices for counting automatically the multitude of fast particles 
arising from the transformation of the target element, or photograph- 
ing with an expansion chamber, automatically controlled, the actual 
tracks of particles from exploding atoms. 

To examine the effect of still faster particles, a cyclotron is installed 
in another large room. The large electromagnet and accessories are 
surrounded with great water tanks containing boron in solution to 
protect the workers from the effect of neutrons released in the appa- 
ratus. A power station nearby is needed to provide current to excite 
the electromagnet and the powerful electric oscillators. 

Such a comparison illustrates the remarkable changes in the scale 
of research that have taken place in certain branches of pure science 
within the last 20 years. Such a development is inevitable, for, as 
science progresses, important problems arise which can only be solved 
by the use of large powers and compUcated apparatus, requiring the 



208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

attention of a team of research workers. If rapid progress is to be 
made, such team work is hkely to be a feature of the more elaborate 
researches in the future. Fortunately there is still plenty of scope for 
the individual research worker in many experiments of a simpler land. 
The science of physics now covers such a vast field that it is impos- 
sible for any laboratory to provide up-to-date facihties for research in 
more than a few of its branches. There is a growing tendency in our 
research laboratories today to specialize in those particular branches 
of physics in which they are most interested or specially equipped. 
Such a division of the field of research amongst a number of universi- 
ties has certain advantages, provided that this subdi\'ision is not car- 
ried too far. In general, the imiversities should be left free so far as 
possible to develop their own hnes of research and encouraged to 
train young investigators, for it cannot be doubted that vigorous 
schools of research in pure science are vital to any nation if it wishes 
to develop effectively the application of science, whether to agriculture, 
industry or medicine. Since investigations in modern science are 
sometimes costly, and often require the use of expensive apparatus 
and large-scale collaboration, it is obviously essential that adequate 
funds should be available to the universities to cover the cost of such 
researches. 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE 



By H. Dingle, D. Sc, A. R. C. S. 
Professor 0/ Natural Philosophy, Imperial College of Science and Technology, Uni- 
versity of London 



A new phenomenon has appeared in modern physics: namely, an 
attempt to apply with rigor the principle that only that which is 
observable is significant. This is not intended to be a precise state- 
ment of the principle. It is at least vague, and perhaps inaccurate, 
but on that very account it is the most suitable statement with which 
to begin our discussion. For the principle itself has not yet been 
clearly isolated from its appUcations. Unconsciously, progressing 
more by instinct than by sight, physicists have allowed it to direct 
their thoughts, but they have not succeeded in giving it clear expres- 
sion. Consequently it is manifested here in one form and there in 
another, appearing to some as an outstanding example of scientific 
arrogance and even absurdity, while to others it has an authority which 
raises it above common sense and reason alike. The resulting con- 
troversy, as may be imagined, has been not without dust and heat, 
some of which, I fear, must be introduced into the placid atmosphere 
of this Institution. Let us agree at the beginning that our own 
considerations shall be at least cool. I will try to mitigate the dust- 
iness, and we will make an unimpassioned attempt to understand 
the meaning of the principle and to reach a viewpoint from which its 
validity may be justly appraised. 

Let me say at once that the principle is not new. I have no doubt 
that the Greeks had some words for it. It is certainly to be found 
disturbing the thoughts of Gahleo, Newton, Locke, Hume, Kant, 
Huxley, Mach, and many others; Huxley, for example, speaks of — 
that exact verbal expression of as much as we know of the fact, and no more, 
which constitutes a perfect scientific theory. ^ 

But on very few occasions in the past has it been more than a pious 
behef , a doctrine which it has been proper — or only slightly improper — 
to hold, but which not only has not been allowed to influence the 
actual prosecution of scientific or philosophical speculation, but has 
actually been violated therein. It is Einstein who is responsible for 
the importance which it has today — not because he has stated it 

1 A lecture delivered before the Royal Institution of Great Britain at the Weekly Evening Meeting, 
Friday, November 26, 1937. Reprinted by permission from the pamphlet of the Royal Institution. 
' Hume, English men of letters, p. 55, 1879. 

209 



210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

more clearly than others, but because he has deliberately brought it 
into practice and thereby achieved a striking scientific success. Let 
us hear him speaking of the crux of his theory — the idea of the simul- 
taneity of events occurring at different places. 

The concept [of simultaneity] does not exist for the physicist until he has the 
possibility of discovering whether or not it is fulfiUed in an actual case. We 
thus require a definition of simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with 
the method by means of which, in the present case, he can decide by experiment 
whether or not both the lightning strokes occurred simultaneously. As long as 
this requirement is not satisfied, I allow myself to be deceived as a physicist 
(and of course the same applies if I am not a physicist), when I imagine that I am 
able to attach a meaning to the statement of simultaneity. (I would ask the 
reader not to proceed farther until he is fully convinced on this point) .* 

I think that if this statement had been made at any time in the 
history of modern science, but had not been applied to the foundations 
ol physical conceptions, it would have aroused no comment. Einstein 
would have been regarded as simply saying that if our definition of 
simultaneity is such that it is essentially impossible to determine 
whether events are simultaneous or not, then it must be wrong; and 
everyone would have agreed and turned to more important matters. 
But he went further. He gave a definition which both accorded with 
scientific practice and satisfied the requirement he had stated, and 
then went on to show that certain modifications of our generally ac- 
cepted notions of space and time must necessarily follow. This put 
the fat into the fire, and instead of being ignored for saying the obvious, 
he was railed at for saying the absurd. Philosophers in particular 
were aroused, and when they realized that a mere empiricist was ven- 
turing to challenge their fundamental principles in tones which re- 
sounded throughout the world, they proceeded to administer the re- 
buke which the occasion demanded. Here, for example, is a comment 
by M. Jacques Maritain, the well-known French Catholic philosopher, 
on the passage I have quoted (in which, it will be remembered, Ein- 
stein asks the reader who is not convinced of his principle to read no 
farther): 

Let us, then, obey our author and read no farther, for this little parenthesis 
"the same applies if I am not a physicist," is of direct concern to us who have not 
the honor to be physicists, and it presumes to introduce us into the most fallacious 
metaphysics. * * * It is a fault so obvious to the eyes of a philosopher to 
confuse the meaning of a concept * * * with the use which may be made of 
the concept in this or that field of study, and more particularly to confuse a thing 
* ♦ * with the measure which we take of it by our senses and our instruments, 
that we hesitate to impute such a mistake to anyone, whoever he may be. Every- 
thing goes to show, however, that Einstein has made this mistake.* 

(We may remark in passing that in speaking of measures, Maritain 
has somewhat confused the issue; measurement is not mentioned by 

5 The theory of relativity, English translation, p. 22, 1920. 

* Rfifleiions sur I'Intelligonce et sur sa Vie Propre, pp. 205-6, 1926. 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE — DINGLE 211 

Einstein. The point M. Maritain really wishes to make is that the 
nature of the thing we observe, whether we measure it or not, is inde- 
pendent of our devices for observing it and should, therefore, be inde- 
pendently defined.) 

It is not surprising that a physicist and a philosopher should take 
opposite views of this question, but the matter cannot be disposed of 
on simple psychological grounds. Here are the diametrically opposed 
views of two men of science: 

The general point of view [of relativity, writes Prof. C. G. Darwin, a mathe- 
matical physicist who needs no introduction to this audience] of questioning the 
reality of anything unobservable is one of the greatest revolutions in scientific 
thought that has ever occurred. * * * The great idea which Einstein con- 
tributed to scientific philosophy was the principle that if a thing is essentially un- 
observable then it is not a real thing and our theories must not include it." 

This remark has caught the eye of Mr. Albert Eagle, now a mathema- 
tician but in his better days an experimental physicist, whose name is 
known wherever spectroscopy is practiced. 

To me, [says Mr. Eagle] this "great idea" is the most savage example of the 
application of what is known as the principle of Occam's Razor of which I have 
heard. * * * Einstein's "great idea" requires us to surrender our common- 
sense for the sake of an arbitrary dictum of his which he and his followers have 
raised to a fetish. It is preposterous, and to my way of thinking is so inherently 
idiotic that I cannot understand anyone wasting his breath in giving utterance 
to such a view. If I had first heard this opinion uttered at a scientific meeting 
by some scientific nonentity I should have longed to have got up and said that 
in my opinion such a view was simply a bit of perverse imbecility.* 

And finally, here is the attitude of another philosopher, Rudolf 
Camap — perhaps the leading exponent of the most active of modern 
schools of philosophy, the so-called "logical positivism." Carnap, 
the philosopher, not only accepts the principle; he uses it to reduce 
to nonsense those branches of his own subject known as metaphysics 
and ethics. 

I will call mdaphysical, [he writes] all those propositions which claim to present 
knowledge about something which is over and above all experience. * * * 
Metaphysicians * * * ^re compelled to cut all connection between their 
propositions and experience; and precisely by this procedure they deprive them 
of any sense.' 

In these days, when politeness in controversy, so desirable and 
proper if directed to the disputants, is so often improperly extended 
to their ideas, so that few dare speak disrespectfully even of the 
equator, there is something refreshing in the forthright character 
of these remarks. And not only are they refreshing; they are highly 
significant also. When men who are neither fools nor Uars agree 
that a certain idea is either the greatest discovery of a generation or 

• The new conceptions or matter, pp. 23, 81, 1931. 

« The philosophy of religion versus the philosophy o( science, pp. 169-70 (1935). 

» Philosophy and logical syntax, pp. 15, 17-18, 1935. 

114728—39 15 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

the silliest nonsense imaginable, but cannot agree as to which it is, 
it is clear that there is more than a difference of opinion; there must 
be some defect of understanding also. Intelligent men do not thus 
differ about that which they comprehend equally. It, therefore, 
becomes a matter of importance to state this principle precisely, so 
that we shall at least know what we are doing when we bless or curse 
it. And in seeking to assess its value, we must avoid the error of 
ascribing greater or less weight to the opinion of a physicist than to 
that of another. Einstein is perfectly right in saying that if this 
principle holds for him as a physicist, it holds for him also if he is not 
a physicist; and M. Maritain offers him a license which he cannot 
accept when he allows him to apply the principle in physics but not 
outside. If we talk nonsense, and plead in extenuation that we are 
only talking as physicists, we fall short of the ideal of rational speech, 
distinguished precedent notwithstanding. The question must be 
considered on general rational grounds: are we to admit the unob- 
servable into our scheme of things or are we not? We must give an 
answer which is independent of the particular scheme which we want 
to uphold. 

Let me for a moment adopt the legal method, and state the case for 
each side independently, as an advocate might state it. Take first 
the case for the principle. It is necessary, say its supporters, as a 
safeguard against irresponsible invention. If we allow that an entity 
might exist and be significant to thought, although it is essentially un- 
observable, what is there to prevent us from postulating any number 
of such entities and involdng them to remove any difficulty that might 
arise? Suppose, for instance, I assert that there is a binkum sitting 
on the table in front of me, and that this tremendous fact, rightly 
understood, is the final, completely satisfying solution of the problem 
of evil. If you reject the principle in question, you have no grounds 
for denying the statement. You may say that you cannot detect my 
binkum, but I reply that of course you cannot, because he is unobserv- 
able. If you want to know how his existence solves the problem of 
evil, I say that it is its nature to do so, and the definition of him, ac- 
cording to your own contention, is quite independent of any means 
you adopt to investigate him. If you ask, "What is a binkum, any- 
way?", I reply that that is immediately evident; I cannot put it into 
words, but everyone knows what a binkum is. If you retort that you 
do not know, I shrug my shoulders and say that you must be speaking 
as a physicist. 

Stupid as this example sounds, it contains a precise parallel to the 
case of simultaneity. M. Maritain and those who agree with him 
claim that the simultaneity of spatially separated events is something 
independent of our means of observing it. When asked what it is, 
they claim that its nature is immediately evident and that everyone 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE — ^DINGLE 213 

knows it. But Einstein says he does not know it, and Einstein is an 
honorable man. And the only reply is that Einstein and his followers 
must be speaking as physicists. 

We can now press home the point. We agree, let me assume, that 
science and philosophy are better without the binkum ; how, then, can 
we exclude him? Only, says Counsel for the defence of the principle, 
by refusing to grant existence to anything that is essentially unobserv- 
able. Our only clue to reality is observation in one form or another. 
And if we admit that, we must go further. Not only must we deny 
existence to the unobservable: by the same token we are forced also to 
deny any unobservable property to an existent thing, otherwise we 
again open the door to the same abuses. And that means that every- 
thing whose existence we acknowledge must be definable ultimately in 
terms of observation — that for everything that we assert about it we 
must have, in the last resort, some observable evidence. The charac- 
ter of the thing may, of course, be very different from the character of 
the observation ; a star, for instance, may be a dazzlingly bright globe 
of gas millions of miles in diameter, whereas we observe only a faint 
pinpoint of Ught. But there must be a logical passage from every de- 
tail we assert about the star to the observation of the pinpoint or other 
observations of cognate character. If there is the slightest relaxation 
of this requirement, in comes the binkum with passport signed and 
sealed. 

The case seems established, but we must hear Counsel for the other 
side. His argument is a reduciio ad absurdum. Certainly we do not 
want the binkum, he says, but your device for keeping him out is both 
presumptuous and absurd; you are throwing out the baby with the 
bath-water. Consider for a moment what your principle implies. 
It asserts that there is nothing in the universe except what you can 
observe — nothing in the physical world beyond the reach of your 
senses. Suppose we were blind, like the men in Mr. Wells's country; 
then, according to your principle, we ought to act as they did, and 
deny existence to the merely visible. How do you know that the 
universe does not contain things apprehensible only by senses which 
you do not possess, which perhaps you have lost in the course of evolu- 
tion or have not yet acquired? Moreover, what about the past? 
You cannot observe that, for it has gone; therefore, you say, it has no 
meaning, it must not come into our description of reality. No flower 
has been born to blush unseen ; no feet trod the earth before the begin- 
ning of living memory. Such nonsense necessarily follows if your 
principle is granted. Exclude your binkum by all means — we hold no 
brief for him ; but find some sensible way of doing it, without assuming 
potential omniscience. 

The problem, I think, is now set clearly before us. If we admit the 
unobservable, there is no check on empty speculation; if we reject the 



214 ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

unobservable, we confine the universe within the bounds of human 
potentiahties and make nonsense of history. What are we to do? 

It is evident that wo must begin by examining the word "unobserv- 
able." Both sides wish to exclude the binkum; both wish to allow the 
universe a richer content than we can at present perceive. The "un- 
observable" that is to be proscribed must therefore include the obvi- 
ously idle fancies but exclude the legitimately transcendental, and we 
must define it so that it does so inevitably, without special pleading. 
I need scarcely add that we must distinguish between "unobservable" 
and "unobserved" — between what we cannot possibly observe and 
what we have not in fact observed. This needs no elaboration; we 
agree that an entity is not to be rejected merely because we have not 
observed it. But what do we mean by "possibly" observable? 

There are reasons of various kinds why we may be prevented from 
observing a thing, but I think they can all be summarized under four 
headings. First of all, there is what I will call the practically im- 
observable — i. e., that which is unobservable because of the practical 
difficulties of observing it. The far side of the moon affords an ex- 
ample. That region is unobservable because we have not solved the 
problem of interplanetary travel, or succeeded in observing the moon 
reflected in Mars, or learnt so much about the properties of matter 
that we are able to deduce from observations of the near side of the 
moon what the configuration of the far side must be, or performed 
some other feat of practical ingenuity. It is conceivable that in time 
this disabUity will be removed, so that practical unobservabihty may 
be merely a temporary characteristic. 

Secondly, there is the humanly unobservable; by which 1 mean the 
unobservable which is so because we do not possess the necessary 
faculties for observing it. I cannot, of course, by the nature of the 
case, give examples of this, but I can give analogies. A great deal of 
the universe would be humanly unobservable if we had no sense of 
sight; and to the musically insensitive the significance of a great 
composer may be said to be humanly unobservable. If, then, there 
is in the universe some existence which no creature has the faculty of 
apprehending, that existence is humanly unobservable. 

Thirdly, there is what I will call the physically unobservable. A 
thing may be said to be physically unobservable when we have the 
faculty for observing it if nature wUl cooperate, but nature gives that 
faculty no opportunity for exercise. Thus, if somewhere in space 
there occurred an event from which no signal — light ray or sound 
wave or anything else — proceeded to other places, and if there were 
repulsive forces which prevented us from ever reaching the place of 
occurrence, that event would be physically unobservable. We have 
eyes to see it, and hands to touch the bodies concerned in it, but we 
cannot use them for that purpose. An example important in physical 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE — ^DINGLE 215 

history is the possibility of observing absolute motion. We have, in 
the Michelson-Morley experiment and similar devices, instruments 
which are able to detect absolute motion if nature will provide them 
with the necessary messengers, but this she faUs to do. No matter 
how we may be changing our motion with respect to other bodies, our 
absolute motion always appears to be nonexistent. (I am assuming, 
without prejudice, for the sake of illustration, that Prof. Dayton 
Miller's experiments do not contradict this statement.) 

Lastly, there is the logically unobservable ; namely, those things 
which we cannot claim to have observed without breaking the laws 
of reason. I doubt if this class is actual, since logic and observation 
are essentially independent, but, as we shall see, it must be included 
because a great deal has been written about it. An example might 
be the observation of an object both larger and smaller than a 
given object; but I give this example with some hesitation because 
geometers have an uncanny knack of inventing spaces in which 
such relations might not be incompatible. Be that as it may, how- 
ever, if we grant a certain minimum of common agreement — such as 
the acceptance of Euclidean geometry in the present instance — 
logical unobservability becomes an intelUgible notion, and we will 
accept it as a candidate for inclusion in our principle. 

Now this classification may be simplified; for, whatever may be 
the ultimate truth of the matter, it is not necessary for our purpose 
to put the humanly and the physically imobservable in separate 
classes. I will, therefore, group them together and call them jointly 
the physically unobservable. The justification for this is that we 
cannot tell, in any given case, with which class we are dealing. If, 
for example, a certain substance appears tasteless to everyone (i. e., 
its taste is unobservable), it is impossible to say whether that is 
because it has a taste which our senses are not keen enough to detect, 
or because it has no taste to be detected. There may be a distinction 
between the two cases, but if so it is beyond our apprehension. But 
now our principle is essentially one which, if vaUd, must be used; 
it is not a creed which we are merely called upon to state and may 
then ignore. The humanly and the physically imobservable, then, 
become one class so far as our problem is concerned, for if in practice 
we reject one, we automatically reject the other also. 

We have, then, three classes of unobservables, and I think the 
distinction between them may be expressed most simply in the fol- 
lowing way. Let us suppose that we have discovered all the means 
of observation that exist in the imiverse, and know all their prop- 
erties completely. We might then be able to imagine other means 
of observation which do not exist. Anything which would be ob- 
servable by such imaginary means, but not by the existing means, 
would be physically unobservable. Anything which would be 



216 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

unobservable by any means, existing or imaginable, would be logi- 
cally unobservable. Anything which would be observable by the 
existing means if we were also onmipotent, but which actually is 
unobservable because we cannot make full use of the means of 
observation which exist, would be practically unobservable. 

We can now proceed a stage further. We have just seen that, for 
our purpose, the humanly and the physically unobservable become 
one class because we cannot at present distinguish between them. 
Let us look, then, at our latest classification, to make sure that the 
three types of imobservabihty we have now reached are immediately 
distinguishable. It is fairly evident, I think, that they are, if we grant 
the initial supposition that we have discovered all existing means of 
observation. For brevity, I will call that the assumption of omnis- 
cience, and you will understand that by that word I do not mean 
knowledge of everything that exists or that can be observed, but 
complete knowledge of the existence and properties of every means 
by which observation is possible. For example, omniscience implies 
complete knowledge of all the properties of Ught, but not necessarily 
of all objects which are visible. Now, clearly, this assumption of 
omniscience is open to challenge, and it is, therefore, necessary to 
see how our classification looks if it is removed. Can we then still 
recognize the three classes as distinct? 

There is no difficulty, I think, with the logically unobservable. 
Since this class consists of things which are not even imaginably 
observable, it makes no difference how much we know of possible 
observabiUty. There can be no possible means of observation that 
is not imaginable. There may be unimagined means, of course. We 
may make discoveries that take us by sm-prise, but those discoveries 
must have been imaginable, or we could not have apprehended them 
at all. Whatever we know of observability, then, does not affect our 
potentialities of observation, so that the logically unobservable is a 
definitely distinguishable class, independently of our assumption of 
onmiscience. 

The case is different, however, with the practically and the physi- 
cally unobservable, for these classes cannot be distinguished if we do 
not regard ourselves as omniscient. We said that the far side of the 
moon was practically unobservable, but if we are not omniscient, 
how do we know that when we have overcome what seem to be the 
present difficulties; when we have made vessels with adequate air and 
food supply, and vehicles that we can drive accurately and swiftly 
enough to take us imharmed to the moon during a week-end — how 
do we know that nature will not then face us with some unexpected 
difficulty lil^e that which she kept in store for our efforts to determine 
our motion through the ether? If she does, and persists in doing the 
same kind of thing, we shall have to call the far side of the moon 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE — DINGLE 217 

physically and not only practically unobservable» And, on the other 
hand, when we say that absolute motion is physically unobservable, 
we are again assuming omniscience. We cannot observe such motion 
by optical, acoustical, electromagnetic or any other means within our 
present knowledge, but, without the assumption, who can say that 
there is not some undiscovered physical medium through which it 
may be detected? If there is, absolute motion is merely practically, 
and not physically, unobservable. It is clear, I tliink, that unless we 
are omniscient the two classes are indistinguishable. 

Our analysis of unobservability, then, finally brings us to this. If 
we assume that we are omniscient we can distinguish three classes — the 
practically, the physically, and the logically unobservable. If we do 
not assume that we are omniscient we can distinguish only two 
classes — the actually and the logically unobservable, let us call them. 
The importance of this conclusion for our purpose is this. We are 
going to look at the actual practice of physics, to see what kinds of 
unobservable are excluded and what kinds are not. If we find that a 
distinction is made between the practically and the physically unob- 
servable, then we know that physics is assuming omniscience; but if 
no distinction is made, then there is no such assumption. 

Let me state the result at once, afterward giving examples to 
justify the statement before proceeding to consider the validity of the 
principle we are considering in its definite form. The practice of 
physics is to recognize three classes — the practically, the physically, 
and the logically unobservable. Of these it excludes the physically 
and the logically unobservable from its considerations, and aims at 
describing the universe in terms of the observable and the merely 
practically unobservable only. It thus assumes omniscience, in the 
sense in which I have defined the word. 

It will not take us long to see that physics includes the practically 
and excludes the logically unobservable. No physicist denies that the 
moon has a far side in the same sense as it has a near side. We 
assume without question that the earth has an interior, that there are 
stars outside the range of our telescopes, and regions beyond the 
obscuring clouds of the Milky Way. All these things could be 
observed if known means of observation have precisely the properties 
we believe them to have and we had the skill to make full use of them. 
Hence the practically unobservable is admitted to physical theory. 

We may deal equally summarily with the logically unobservable. 
Nasty things have been said about the reasoning of some modern 
physicists when they step outside the bounds of their equations, but 
I do not think the bare, unadorned physical theories themselves have 
been called illogical, either with pride or with shame. If, then, the 
structure of physical theory allows ontological significance to any- 
thing which is logically unobservable, it does so through an oversight. 



218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

and theory will undoubtedly be reformed as soon as the oversight is 
discovered. We may say, therefore, that the practice of physics is 
to reject the logically unobservable. 

But now, the unobservables whose rejection has caused all the con- 
troversy belong to neither of these classes. Let us fix our attention 
on the example of absolute simultaneity, with which the discussion 
began. This, as we know, is rejected, and that cannot be because 
it is practically unobservable, for physics reeks of the practically 
unobservable. Nor is absolute simultaneity logically unobservable. 
We can conceive that the universe might be such that two events at 
different places might occur at the same time in an absolute sense, and 
that this fact might be observable. I should mention, however, that 
this has been denied, so I will presently show in more detail why abso- 
lute simultaneity cannot be regarded as logically unobservable, but for 
the moment I will take it to be established in order not to interrupt 
the main course of the argument. We cannot, then, escape from the 
conclusion that absolute simultaneity belongs to a third class of 
unobservables, which we shall see is what I have called the class of 
physically unobservables; and the recognition of this class commits 
physics to the assumption of omniscience. 

To see that absolute simultaneity is physically unobservable, let 
us look at the obstacle that prevents us from observing it. Why can 
we not say, in an absolute sense, that two events occurring at dif- 
ferent places are simultaneous? It comes down to the fact that we 
can know of the events only through some agency which travels from 
them to us and takes time to do so. Consider two events — say, the 
impact of a meteorite on a lunar crater and the outbreak of a new star 
in the Milky Way. We know of these events when we see them (or 
their effects) but we do not see them at the moments at which they 
occur because the light which makes them visible takes time to travel ; 
and although, perhaps, we observe them on the same evening, one may 
have occurred 100 years after the other. We can, of course, allow for 
this by calculating how long the light has taken to travel, but when we 
do so, according to standard methods and principles, we find that the 
results depend on the way in which we happen to be moving with 
respect to the bodies on which the events occurred. Furthermore, 
we cannot distinguish in an absolute sense between one state of motion 
and another; so far as we can determine, all states are equally valid 
or equally invalid. Hence, we do not know what allowance to make 
for the time of travel of the light, and, therefore, cannot determine 
absolutely whether the events were simultaneous or not. The word 
"absolutely" is important. We can determine quite definitely if the 
events are simultaneous if we assume that we are at rest or that we 
are moving in any definitely specified way; but what we cannot do is 
to justify our assumption if it is challenged. 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE — DINGLE 219 

The unobservability of absolute simultaneity, then, depends on the 
fact that we cannot determine unambiguously how long light takes to 
inform us of an event; or, more generally, how long after an event it is 
possible for us to know of it. This ignorance, of course, would not be 
necessary if we could know of an event immediately it occurred — if, 
this is to say, we could observe it by some messenger which traveled 
at an infinite speed. This is not pure fancy. Before the time of 
Romer, in the seventeenth century, it was believed that light might 
travel at an infinite speed, and before the theory of relativity arose, 
it was believed that gravitational action was transmitted instantane- 
ously. It is not uncommon, too, to imagine that there might be 
instantaneous telepathic communication. We can at least, then, 
conceive that an instantaneous messenger might exist, and therefore 
absolute simultaneity is not logically unobservable. It is unobservable 
simply and solely because, so far as our present survey of the universe 
has gone, there is no evidence that it is possible to learn of a distant 
event at the moment at which it occurs. In other words, absolute 
simultaneity is physically unobservable. 

It is important to emphasize this because, as I remarked just now, 
it has been claimed that absolute simultaneity is rejected because it 
is logically unobservable, and this claim has been made the basis of 
the philosophy of the logical positivists. Let us hear the late Prof. 
Moritz Schlick, one of the foremost and most able of the founders of 
this school of thought. He maintains that there are only two signif- 
icant classes of unobservables, corresponding to what I have called 
the "actually" and the "logically" unobservable. 

The distinction between impossibility of fact and impossibility of principle, is 
absolute, without the slightest ambiguity; it is not of such and such a degree; 
it is essential.* 

He then cites Einstein's rejection of absolute simultaneity as an 
example of the rejection of the logically unobservable, the "impossi- 
bility of principle." He makes it quite clear that he does not dis- 
tinguish between the physically and the practically unobservable; 
they are all included in the "impossibility of fact." 

The statement, "There are mountains 3,000 meters high on the far side of the 
moon," is perfectly sensible, although our present technical skill is insufficient 
to assure us of its truth or falsity. It would still be sensible if it were unquestion- 
ably established scientifically that man would never reach the far side of the moon 
by any means. The verification remains conceivable; we are able to express what 
it would be necessary to do to decide the question, what it would be necessary to 
experience; verification is logically possible, and that is all that matters. 

I hope I have made it clear that if the conceivability of verification 
is aU that matters, absolute simultaneity is verifiable, and, therefore, 
not logically unobservable. We can conceive of the possibility of 

* Erkenntnis. French translation in Actualites Scientlflques et Industrlelles, No. 152, p. 25 (1934). 



220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

learning of an event at the moment of its occurrence. If, then, two 
separated events occur at the same instant, it is conceivable that we 
should observe them at the same instant. Now no one has denied 
that simultaneity of observation is significant; it is only simultaneity 
of occurrence of the events that is in question. Hence, since simul- 
taneity of occurrence is conceivably deducible from simultaneity of 
observation, it also would be significant if the logically unobservable 
alone were excluded. 

We can now, at last, give a rigorous form to the principle which is 
the subject of our inquiry. It is this: that only that which would be 
observable if we were able to use known means of observation to the 
known limits of their possibilities, is significant. Our description of 
the universe must describe nothing else, must imply the existence of 
nothing else, must imply the possible existence of nothing else. If we 
do not accept this principle, we must reject relativity and a consider- 
able part of the quantum theory as worthless illusion. 

The next step, clearly, is to examine the credentials of this principle 
on general rational grounds, but before doing so I want to give an- 
other example of its application, in order to emphasize the fact that 
it is not an unimportant appendage of physical theory, but the very 
mainspring of the most prominent modem developments. Heisen- 
berg's uncertainty principle is perhaps the best-known example, but 
I will not deal with that because it is too closely bound up with other 
factors which there is no time to consider. I choose instead an idea 
which stresses the point still more forcibly because it is not generally 
regarded as exemplifying the principle in question, but is attacked or 
defended on quite other grounds. The principle has taken root so 
deep in the minds of physicists that they employ it unconsciously, 
and justify their action by arguments which appear to others either 
incomprehensible or absurd. I am speaking of the idea that the 
physical universe is finite but boundless. This idea can be made 
intelligible in 5 minutes when presented as an example of the prin- 
ciple of rejection of the physically unobservable, and I believe that 
those who accept it are convinced of its rationahty because they have 
already accepted that principle. They are not aware of this source 
of their conviction, however, and therefore have to justify their belief 
by saying that space is "curved," that it "bends back on itself" — an 
"idea" which I do not think it is humanly possible to grasp except as 
a metaphor of the kind one meets with in the "metaphysical" poetry 
of the seventeenth century. Whether or not that psychological diag- 
nosis is accurate, however, is unimportant; the main point is to see 
that, in terms of our principle, the idea that space is finite and bound- 
less is intelligible without calling on such unimaginable notions as 
curvature. 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE — DINGLE 221 

The idea is that if we were free to move about in space eternally, 
wherever nature led, we would always find ourselves apparently in the 
midst of a collection of stars or nebulae, though we could not forever 
be meeting new objects, but would have to endure the tedium of see- 
ing the old familiar faces endlessly, without relief. Like our former 
example, this idea, in its modern form, originated with Einstein; let 
us see how it has impressed his contemporaries. Sir Arthur Edding- 
ton, who thinks very highly of it, writes thus: 

Einstein made a slight amendment to his law to meet certain diflSculties that 
he encountered in his theory. There was just one place where the theory did not 
seem to work properly, and that was — infinity. I think Einstein showed his 
greatness in the simple and drastic way in which he disposed of difRculties at 
infinity. He abolished infinity. He shghtly altered his equations so as to make 
space at great distances bend round until it closed up." 

On the other hand, here is the stimulating Mr. Eagle again. 

I fancy Einstein is honestly a bit tired and weary of "curved space," and is 
probably a bit sorry he ever suggested such a thing. But he did not know with 
what zeal other people would take it up and make a world-wide fuss about it. 
In pre-Einsteinian days if people had been told that an author's theme in his 
book had been that external reality only possessed three spatial dimensions, and 
that therefore to talk of "curved three dimensional space" was pure nonsense, 
they would have replied that they thought only lunatics thought otherwise. 
Now this conception is widely regarded in many circles as a "probably may be 
true" one. This, to me, seems the measure to which both the scientific world and 
the general pubUc have been bluflfed by the theory. Future scientific historians 
will probably regard the theory as a befitting product of a mad age in the world's 
history.'^ 

Prof. E. A. Milne is scarcely less contemptuous of this manifestation 
of EiQstein's greatness. 

It is not necessary to employ the vague, ill-understood, probably meaningless 
concept of closed, finite expanding space." 

Well, the symptoms are familiar. Again we have the alternative 
estimates of supreme greatness and supreme folly, and we might 
suspect that the same: misunderstanding is at the bottom of the 
trouble — as, in fact, it is. Let us begin with a finite collection of 
stars (or nebulae) in a space which we suppose extends to infinity in 
all directions (fig. 1) ; we are somewhere in the midst of the collection — 
say at A. Now suppose we try to get outside into the empty spaces. 
We cannot, because the gravitation of the system keeps all material 
bodies inside; the faster we move, the greater is the attraction, and 
we find om-selves following some such path as that shown in the 
diagram. It is the same with light; that also is drawn back, and 
cannot illuminate whatever external objects there may be. In fact 

» The expanding universe, p. 21, 1933. 

1" The philosophy of religion versus the philosophy of science, pp. 219-20. 

" Zeits. f. Astrophysil£, vol. 6, p. 83, 1933, 



222 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 19 38 

no physical existence that we know of can escape. All that is per- 
fectly conceivable; and I am not, of course, concerned with whether 
it is true or not, any more than I was concerned earlier with the truth 
of the statement that the velocity of light is finite; that is a matter 
for experiment, and my purpose is served if I can show that the 
idea of finite boundlessness could be true without violation of ordinary 
notions. 





Figure l.— Model of finite universe. 
From "Through Science to Philosophy." By H. Dingle. 

[CouTtesv of the Clarendon Press, Oxford] 

We picture, then, a finite universe from which we cannot escape. 
The next point is that it is impossible for us to know whether we are 
at its center or its boundary ; in either case we appear to be surrounded 
by stars on all sides. Obviously an observer at the center (or at A) 
sees stars all round, but so does an observer at B, for the light of the 
stars inside is bent, so that he sees then whichever way he looks. 
The light of a star at S, for example, is bent so that the star appears 
to be at S^ This is a very ordinary phenomenon, exemplified every 
time we look at a mirror; an object appears in the direction of the 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE — DINGLE 223 

light that enters our eye, and not necessarily where it actually is. 
We are, therefore, not only confined within the universe, but neces- 
sarily without the possibility of the experience of being at the bound- 
ary; however we move, and wherever we go, we must always see the 
same kind of thing — stars more or less uniformly distributed all round. 

All that is of the nature of simple, traditional physics; now comes 
the crucial point. Since the region outside the system is physically 
inaccessible and unobservable, and the experience of being at its 
frontier is physically unattainable so that it is never possible for us 
to know whether we are there or not, we leave these things outside 
our description of the universe. We give the name "space" to the 
volume wliich contains what we can observe, and describe it simply 
according to our experience as both finite and boundless. We can 
still, of course, conceive that there is an infinite region outside (wher- 
ever "outside" may be), but that is merely another way of saying 
that the region is not logically unobservable. The rejection of in- 
fiinite space is, in fact, precisely similar to the rejection of absolute 
simultaneity: it represents an economy of ideas — we are to introduce 
no conceptions which are not necessary for the description of the 
physically observable. 

It may be worth while to point out that this account of finite bound- 
lessness differs from the statement that space is curved in the fact 
that it says nothing about any intrinsic property of space. There is 
no need to try to think of emptiness with a ciu-vature ; we have simply 
to think of possible experience, and keep within its bounds. Of 
course, for mathematical purposes the conception of curvature is 
useful because it allows us to employ the technique of Riemannian 
geometry to solve particular problems, and for the mathematician it 
may have some esthetic value, as the poetry of Mr. T. S. Eliot is 
said to have for those "in the know." But for the purpose of under- 
standing it is worse than superfluous; it is definitely misleading. 

What, now, of the validity of this principle, which has taken 
charge of physics and threatens to direct all future philosophical 
thought? Let me repeat the principle; it says that nothing which is 
logically or physically unobservable is significant. This statement 
must be appraised on prescientific, general rational grounds, and we 
can best approach the task by returning to the rival arguments set 
out earher and considering them in the light of our rigorous statement. 

The essence of the argument for the principle is that it is needed 
to prevent arbitrary invention of existences or arbitrary dogmas about 
them; and it meets this requirement by saying, in effect, that every- 
thing that exists is observable by known means. The argument 
against the principle is that we have no right to assume omniscience ; 
that although it may be granted that the logically unobservable can- 
not exist, it is presumptuous to say the same of the physically unob- 



224 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

servable. And, as an example of the absurdity to which the principle 
leads us, it was pointed out that it would require us to deny the 
reality of all that is past. 

Now, before coming to the main issue, it may be well to point out 
that this example does not hold good. The past is not physically 
unobservable, but only practically so. Every event in the past inter- 
acted with the rest of the universe, and the effects of the interaction 
persist in one form or another; it could, therefore, in principle be 
deduced from an analysis of those effects, just as the course of certain 
past events can be observed from a cinematograph film. True, 
photography is a specially arranged type of interaction, the results 
of which can be analyzed into a reproduction of the original events 
with relative ease, but that is merely a practical difference. Since 
radiation is going out from every event at every instant, and radia- 
tion, as energy, is indestructible, there always exists the physical pos- 
sibility of tracing it back from whatever form it may have assumed 
to its original character, and so recovering the past. Before conclud- 
ing that the principle is inherently absurd, therefore, it is necessary 
to examine it with some care, for it leaves the possibility of a richer 
universe than might at first be suspected. 

But making all due allowance for that, the criticism remains that 
the principle does categorically deny existence to whatever cannot 
be physically observed, and that this implies an unwarrantable as- 
sumption of omniscience. We are, therefore, in this dilemma. If 
we deny the principle, we have no check on idle invention; it may 
be that all that we know, and have taken such pains to find out, is 
trivial, while the great, important facts of the universe are not even 
suspected and are unattainable — at least with our present human 
faculties and knowledge, and perhaps altogether. On the other hand, 
if we accept the principle, we close the door to all experience outside 
that which our present knowledge allows. Our mental, like our 
physical, universe becomes finite, and all that the future provides 
scope for is more ingenious manipulation of things we already know. 
And let me repeat that this dilemma is not a domestic affair for 
physicists. In physics it concerns at present only existences observ- 
able by sense perception, but, clearly, it is equally relevant, in the 
appropriate forms, to aU spheres of thought in which we regard our- 
selves as apprehending some independent existence by means of 
human faculties. 

This last sentence, I think, gives the clue to the solution of the 
problem: "All spheres of thought in which we regard ourselves as 
apprehending some independent existence by means of human facul- 
ties." That is the attitude which I have assumed throughout this 
discussion — the attitude of naive realism in which we picture an 
objective universe existing independently of our thought of it and our 
examination of it. It is the attitude which we always assume in 



SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE — DINGLE 225 

everyday intercourse and in most scientific discussions also. We 
regard scientific research as an exploration of this independent uni- 
verse, an attempt to discover what it contains and to understand the 
preestabUshed relation of one part with another. It is this concep- 
tion of science or philosophy that makes possible the dilemma by 
which we are faced. If the universe exists independently of our 
experience of it, then clearly it is presumption on our part to deny 
that it can contain anything inaccessible to experience. And, on the 
other hand, if we abstain from this presumption we make all inquiry 
a mockery, for we have no guarantee that anything that we may dis- 
cover is more than a triviality, an insignificant part of a universe 
whose essential elements are eternally unknowable. We may, it is 
true, make a verbal escape from the dilemma by saying that, although 
the universe may be mainly unlaiowable, we proceed by an act of 
faith that we are given faculties capable of apprehending it completely; 
but such an act of faith is both logically and practically indistinguish- 
able from the assumption of omniscience — it is simply arrogance 
wearing the cloak of humility. 

But suppose we take the idealistic view, regarding our experience, 
our observations, as the primary data, and the universe as a mental 
construct formed to give rational coherence to those observations. 
The whole matter then appears in a different light, in which the 
dilemma is no longer seen. The statement that nothing which is 
logically or physically unobservable is significant is simply a state- 
ment of our aim as scientists or philosophers ; it means that we confine 
ourselves to our purpose of deducing a universe from our observa- 
tions and do not allow our fancies to intervene. There is no assump- 
tion of omniscience because there is no independent universe to know, 
and the arrogance disappears because we make no claim to know all 
the possibilities of observation. We set no limit to the possibilities 
of experience; we simply refuse to assert anything for which we have 
no (direct or indirect) justification in experience, and as observation 
grows the universe grows also. The objection to the principle, there- 
fore, vanishes completely, from the idealistic point of view. 

On the other hand, the objection to denying the principle by no 
means vanishes. If we do not exclude the physically unobservable 
from our description of the universe, we stUl have no grounds for not 
admitting the binkum and so reducing philosophy to a farce. When 
M. Maritain claims that a thing is independent of our observation 
of it, he immediately makes it impossible for us to know that we are 
saying anything of the least importance about it, no matter whether 
we adopt the realistic or the idealistic viewpoint. If we are realists, 
the thing may be essentially beyond apprehension; and, if we are 
idealists, we may form it equally legitimately from observation or 
from fancy. 

The position, then, is this. If we take the realistic view, we are left 



226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

with an unresolved dilemma, but if we take the idealistic view, the 
principle becomes simply a statement of the object at which science 
has aimed throughout its history. It is not my purpose to comment 
on the age-old problem of idealism versus realism; I am concerned only 
with the attitude impUed in modern scientific developments. And the 
point I want to emphasize as clearly and unmistakably as possible is 
that anyone who regards the recent trend of physics in general, and the 
theory of relativity in particular, as legitimate science or philosophy or 
intellectual activity bearing whatever name may be thought honor- 
able, must either be an idealist or presume that he is omniscient. I do 
not wish in this place to plead the cause of either of the alternatives 
open to the humble. I am not anxious to cry "Vote for realism, and 
down with relativity!" or "Support idealism and relativity, and throw 
realism to the dogs!" That is a matter for personal predilection, but it 
is a matter for pure reason to show that those are the only alternatives 
open to anyone who is not prepared to assume that he is omniscient. 

The striking divergence of opinion with which we opened can now, 
I think, be understood. Those who, like M. Maritain and Mr. Eagle, 
see the principle in question as an example of presumption arising from 
ignorance, are realists — by which I mean that they instinctively think 
as reaUsts, whether or not they would accept the title. On the other 
hand, those physicists and philosophers who accept the principle are, 
by the same criterion, idealists, though most of them speak our ordi- 
nary, everyday language which has accommodated itself to the realis- 
tic outlook. In terms of that language their utterances necessarily 
appear arrogant; what they apprehend instinctively as the wisdom of 
a self-imposed discipline is clothed in sentences which suggest to the 
reaUst the idea of arbitrary dogma. The divergence, arising as a 
difference of philosophical attitude, is accentuated by the necessity of 
expressing idealistic principles in realistic terms. 

Let me, in conclusion, recapitulate the argument. The practice of 
modern physics is found on examination to imply that nothing must be 
included in our description of the universe that would not be observable 
if we had full control of all known means of observation. If we adopt 
the realistic view that the universe exists independently of our obser- 
vation of it, this implies that the means of observation which we al- 
ready know are sufficient to reveal everything that exists. We must 
in that case either make this assumption, for which we have no war- 
rant, or else reject the recent developments of physics. If we choose 
the second alternative, we are left without any assurance that we can 
know anything of importance about what exists outside us. On the 
other hand, if we adopt the idealistic view that the universe is con- 
structed mentally by logical inference from experience, we see the im- 
plication of modern physics as simply the traditional thesis of science 
that the data we choose shall be pure experience, unalloyed with fancy 
or arbitrary dogma. 



SOME ASPECTS OF NUCLEAR PHYSICS OF POSSIBLE 
INTEREST IN BIOLOGICAL WORK ' 



By L. A. DuBridge 
University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 



[With two plates] 

In selecting a title for this paper I have endeavored to choose one 
which would create no illusions as to its purpose or content. It is 
my purpose only to review (in a very elementary way) some of the 
aspects of nuclear physics which give promise of providing useful tools 
in biological research. I shall attempt to indicate a few of the types 
of problems to which these tools may be applied. I am not reporting 
any research which has been carried on in this field. I cannot claim 
originaUty for any of the suggestions I am going to make concerning 
biological problems, since they are all either more or less obvious or 
else have been proposed by various workers interested in this field.^ 
Note that these are only suggestions as to possible problems to 
which these new tools may be applied, not predictions of any definite 
results which may be obtained. It is as difficult to make predictions 
in this field now as it would have been 35 years ago to predict the 
biological applications of X-rays and radioactivity. 

Nevertheless, despite these cautious remarks, it is my own convic- 
tion, inspired by the conviction of many others better able to judge, 
that the discoveries of the last 5 years in nuclear physics are almost 
certain to be of far reaching importance in biology. They will greatly 
facilitate experimental work now going on in certain fields, and they 
will doubtless uncover new problems not now suspected or not open 
to attack by present experimental methods. Many feel that a new 
era in biological technique is now at hand. If this be true no further 
apologies need be offered for any attempt to acquaint biologists 
with the nature of the new tools for research which they are likely 
soon to be using. 

We will do well to begin the discussion by listing some of the most 
important advances in nuclear physics in recent years. 

* Presented at the Symposium on Biophysics, Philadelphia, Pa., November 4, 8, and 6, 1937. Reprinted 
by permission from the Journal of Applied Physics, vol. 9, No. 3, March 1938. 

> I am particularly Indebted to Prof. £. 0. Lawrence, with whom these problems have been discussed in 
some detalL 

227 

114728—39 16 



228 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

1. The discovery, measurement, and separation of isotopes of the chemical 
elements (Aston, Bainbridge, Urey, et al.)- 

2. The development of machines for accelerating charged particles to very 
high energies (1 to 8 million electron volts). 

(a) Transformer-condenser methods (Cockcroft and Walton, Lauritsen, et al.)- 

(b) Electrostatic generator (Van de GraafiF, Tuve). 

(c) The cyclotron (Lawrence, Livingston, and Cooksey). 

(d) Linear accelerators, resonance transformers, etc. 

3. The transmutation of elements: 

(a) By natural alpha-particles (Rutherford, 1919). 

(b) By artificially accelerated protons (Cockcroft and Walton, 1932). 

(c) By deuterons (Lawrence, 1933). 

(d) By neutrons (Feather, 1932). 

4. Discovery of the positron (Anderson, 1932). 

5. Discovery of the neutron (Chadwick, 1932). 

6. Discovery of induced radioactivity (Curie-Joliot, 1934). 

We shall pass over the field of isotopes without discussion. The 
heavy isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, etc., are of great im- 
portance to nuclear physics and to biology but their use in the latter 
field is largely a problem of chemistry — and I shall leave it to the 
chemists to discuss. 

Similarly, it will not be profitable in this discussion to describe in 
detail the experimental techniques which have been developed for 
producing high energy particles. It is the development of these 
techniques, of course, which has made possible all the other ad- 
vances: without them it would not be possible even to discuss in a 
practical way the possible biological applications of nuclear physics. 
In fact, there would be very little nuclear physics. The time may not 
be far distant when a cyclotron or a Van de Graaff generator will be 
standard equipment in large biological and medical research centers. 
But our chief interest in this symposium is what these machines will 
do rather than how they work. The principal thing they will do is to 
produce transmutations of elements, and the products of these trans- 
mutations are the things wliich biologists may find useful. I should 
also mention, however, that resonance transformers and Van de 
Graaff macliines are also suitable, and are even now in use in several 
medical centers, for the production of milHon-volt X-rays. Still 
higher voltages can be produced as soon as they are required, but it 
will be best to understand something of the effects of 1-milhon volt 
X-rays before 2-million volt machines are built. These machines 
bring X-ray energies right into the realm of gamma-rays, with avail- 
able intensities which are thousands of times greater than those 
attainable from natural radioactive sources. 

The great importance of extending radiological investigations into 
this region is sufficiently obvious. There is but one interesting point 
worth mentioning. One advantage usually ascribed to high energy 
X-rays is their greater penetrating power. However, this increase of 



NUCLEAR PHYSICS — ^DUBRIDGE 229 

penetrating power with increasing energy (decreasing wave length) 
does not continue indefinitely. Above about 2.5 million volts (Mv) 
the penetrating power of X-rays in lead begins to decrease again, so 
that 3 Mv rays may actually be "softer" instead of "harder" than 2 
Mv. For lighter materials than lead the maximum of penetrating 
power occurs at rather higher energies (10-12 Mv for Al) but the 
existence of this maximum must be taken into account, and may offer 
difficulties in the development of absorption and filtering techniques 
which will have to be used with these multunillion volt machines. 

But million-volt X-rays are really not new tools for biological work — 
they are only more powerful forms of tools already familiar. We must 
look to the results of experiments on the transmutation of elements 
for the really new possibilities which nuclear physics will furnish to 
biology. Among these the most promising are the last two listed 
above, namely, the neutron and induced radioactivity, and to these 
subjects I shall devote the remainder of this discussion. 

THE NEUTRON 

The neutron is a particle of mass 1 (actually 1.0090) and charge 
zero. It is one of the two fundamental building stones from which all 
nuclei are constructed, the other being the proton (mass 1.0076, 
charge +!)• All nuclei are believed to be composed of these two 
particles and no others. Neutrons may be ejected from various 
nuclei by bombarding them with protons, deuterons, alpha-particles, or 
gamma-rays. And this, in fact, is the only way in which neutrons 
can be made available for use in experimental work. When radon 
(radium emanation) is collected in a small capsule containing pow- 
dered beryllium a convenient source of neutrons is obtained. The 
neutrons are ejected by the bombardment of the beryllium nucleus 
by the alpha-particles from radon according to the reaction 

The neutrons emerge with energies up to 13.7 milhon electron 
volts (Mev) though most of them have much lower energies.' 

While the intensity of the neutron beam obtainable from a radon- 
beryllium source is sufficient for many purposes, enormously more 
intense beams have been produced by the cyclotron. Lawrence has 
reported neutron beams equivalent to what would be produced only 
by several hundred kilograms of radium and beryllium. The reaction 
often used in this case is the bombardment of beryllium by deuterons, 
according to the reaction 



' The kinetic energy which a particle of charge < (electrostatic units) acquires in falling through a potential 
difference of V volts is given by the relation K. E. = Ve/300. An uncharged particle such as the neutron 
which has the same kinetic energy which an electron (or proton or any other single charged particle) would 
acquire in falling through a potential diflerence of 1 Mv is said to have an energy of 1 Mev. 



230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

What, then, are some of the properties of neutrons so produced? 
In some ways a beam of neutrons is similar to a beam of gamma-rays. 
They are undeflected by a magnetic field and have considerable pene- 
trating power through heavy substances. They were, as a matter of 
fact, mistaken for gamma-rays in the early experiments. A further 
examination shows, however, profound differences between neutrons 
and gamma-rays — and these differences may have biological impor- 
tance. A gamma-ray loses energy in passing through matter largely 
through the energy it imparts to the orbital electrons of the atoms 
through which it passes. A gamma-ray, being an electromagnetic 
radiation, has strong interaction with charged particles (electrons) 
and these will sooner or later rob each gamma-ray of all its energy. 
A neutron, however, being an uncharged particle, is not at all in- 
fluenced by passing through an atmosphere of electrons. Its course 
can be deflected or its velocity changed only by a close encounter 
with the nucleus of an atom, and this is a rather rare occurrence. 
Even when it does occur, if the nucleus against which the neutron 
collides is heavy, the neutron will rebound without much loss of energy, 
like a golf ball from a brick wall. The neutron is scattered but does 
not slow down.* The neutron is completely absorbed only in case it 
enters the nucleus, and is there captured or causes the ejection of 
another particle. In most substances this absorption probability is 
very small and the neutrons therefore penetrate great thickness — 
e. g., several feet of lead. On the other hand some substances, for 
example cadmium, have a very large selective absorption for neutrons 
of a particular velocity — and so rapidly remove neutrons of this 
particular velocity from the beam. 

When neutrons pass through light materials, especially materials 
containing hydrogen, the situation is quite different. In collision with 
a hydrogen nucleus, which has about the same mass as a neutron, the 
neutron may lose a large fraction or all of its energy, imparting it to 
the proton, as in the coUision of two billiard balls. On the average 
it gives up more than half its energy at each coUision, and so in about 
20 coUisions a 5 Mev neutron wiU be slowed down to thermal energies 
(0.1 electron volt or less). Thus a beam of fast neutrons after passing 
through about 6 to 10 cm of paraffin will be largely slowed down to 
thermal energies. At these low velocities neutrons are readily cap- 
tured by a proton to form a deuteron, and so are quickly absorbed. 
A block of parafl&n or a water cell is thus an effective barrier for neu- 
trons — though they could easily pass through several feet of lead. 
The technique of handling neutron beams thus presents surprising 
problems, which there is not time to discuss.^ 

* Inelastic scattering (slowing down) of fast neutrons by heavy nuclei has recently been discovered at 
Cornell. 
« For a full account see Rasetti, Nuclear, Physics, Prentice-Hall, 1936. 



NUCLEAR PHYSICS — DUBRIDGE 231 

The problem of detecting and measuring neutron beams is also an 
interesting one. Since neutrons do not interact appreciably with 
atomic electrons they produce almost no ionization along their paths. 
Hence, all the ordinary methods of detecting radiations (ionization 
chambers, counters, cloud chambers, etc.) which depend on ionization, 
are at first sight apparently useless. This difficulty is avoided by 
maldng use of collisions of neutrons with protons. The recoil protons 
produced in hydrogen-containing materials produce intense ioniza- 
tion, and the intensity of this can be taken as a measure of neutron 
intensity. The length of the recoil proton tracks produced in a 
hydrogen-filled cloud chamber can be used as a measure of the neutron 
velocities. 

Still another method of detection is to make use of the disintegra- 
tions produced by neutrons in which alpha-particles are ejected, the 
alpha-particle ionization then being measured. The boron reaction 
is particularly useful: 

This reaction is particularly efficient for low energy neutrons, for 
which the proton recoil ionization cannot be used. An ionization 
chamber lined with boron or filled with boron fluoride gas is widely 
used for the detection of neutrons. 

Finally neutrons may be detected and measured by the amount 
of induced radioactivity they produce in certain materials such as 
silver. 

It is evident from what has been said that the process by which a 
neutron loses energy in passing through matter is quite distinct from 
the processes by which gamma-rays or X-rays are absorbed. The 
latter give their energies to electrons while neutrons give their energy 
in appreciable quantities only to protons or other light nuclei. Elec- 
trons produce relatively small ionization over a long path; protons 
produce intense ionization over a short path; carbon nuclei, still 
more intense ionization over a still shorter path. Since it is to be 
expected that biological effects on individual cells will depend more 
on ionization density than total number of ions, it will be rather 
expected that neutrons will be more biologically effective than gamma- 
rays or X-rays of the same intensity. Preliminary experiments by 
Lawrence at California and by Zirkle of the Johnson Foundation 
indicate that this is indeed the case. Certainly this matter should be 
further investigated with great care and at once. As a matter of fact 
many experiments on neutron effects on both plant and animal tissue 
are now in progress, and there will be plenty of work in this field for 
many years to come. 



232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

There are difficulties in comparing neutron and X-ray effects which 
ought to be pointed out. X-ray doses are commonly measured in 
terms of the ionization produced in a standard chamber. Certain 
types of X-ray ionization chambers, however, may show almost no 
ionization for a neutron beam. A chamber used for neutrons must 
be lined with paraffin or Bakelite or other hydrogen-containing ma- 
terials. The amount of ionization produced by a given beam will 
then depend greatly on the amount and arrangement of the materials 
introduced. Thus an X-ray and a neutron beam which produce equal 
ionization in one chamber will produce quite different effects in 
another one differently constructed. And the difference will depend 
on the energy (voltage) of the X-ray beam and the speed of the neu- 
trons. On just what basis then can one say that neutrons are more 
effective than X-rays, or vice versa, unless there is some way of com- 
paring intensities? Up to the present time each worker in this field 
has in general used a different type of ionization chamber, but in each 
case one has been chosen in which it was believed that the proton- 
recoU ionization would be comparable to what would be produced by 
the neutrons in biological materials. The results of different workers 
may be expected to be qualitatively comparable but it will soon be 
desirable to develop methods of quantitative measurement of neutron 
intensities relative to some arbitrary standard. 

There is another important effect of neutrons which may be of 
biological interest. Both slow and fast neutrons are very effective 
in producing nuclear disintegrations, and in a large number of cases 
the disintegrations lead to products which are radioactive. (We 
shall have something to say about such materials later on.) In 
some cases also these disintegration reactions are accompanied by 
penetrating gamma-rays. A neutron is thus a "triple-threat man" 
since in passing through biological materials it may simultaneously 
(1) produce recoil protons or other nuclei, (2) create radioactive 
atoms, (3) excite gamma-rays. It may be necessary to treat indi- 
vidually the biological results of these three processes. In most 
cases it seems likely that the first will be most important since disin- 
tegration probabilities are less than collision probabilities in general. 
And the elements for which the disintegration probabihty (giving 
rise to gamma-rays or radioactive products) is high are not materials 
commonly present in biological tissues, e. g., cadmium, samarium, 
and boron. Nevertheless, one should be on the lookout for cases in 
which neutrons produce effects on materials containing very little 
hydrogen, which may be due to disintegrations rather than collisions. 
In the case of very slow neutrons (energies of a few electron volts or 
less) recoil ionization will be absent and their effects (if any) will be 
due solely to disintegrations. 



NUCLEAR PHYSICS — DUBRIDGE 233 

It is possible that tliis property of neutrons of converting certain 
elements into their radioactive isotopes may be turned to good use. 
It might, for example, prove useful to direct a slow neutron beam at 
certain regions in the body and convert some of the elements present 
there into radioactive isotopes, whose radioactivity would remain 
for several hours after the neutron exposure had ceased. Since 
almost every element may be made radioactive by neutrons there 
are many possibiUties to be considered. And this brings us directly, 
then, to a discussion of the possible uses in biological work of artificially 
produced radioactive materials. 

INDUCED RADIOACTIVITY 

It was in January 1934 that the Curie-Joliots reported that certain 
targets bombarded by alpha-particles continued to emit positrons for 
some time after the bombardment ceased. This positron activity 
was found to decay exponentially with time, just as in the case of the 
natural radioactive materials. By 1934 nuclear-physics technique 
was quite well developed so that further studies of this induced radio- 
activity were undertaken at once by many laboratories. And now, 
a little over 3 years after the first announcement, over 220 radio- 
active isotopes are known, including practically every element of the 
periodic table and some beyond the end of the table. (Radioactive 
isotopes of elements of atomic number 94, 95, and 96 were once 
indicated but are ruled out by, recent work.) 

The existence of these radioactive isotopes is easily understood. 
Each element in the periodic table has only a hmited number (be- 
tween 1 and 1 1) of stable isotopes^ which^are found in nature. Thus flu- 
orine has but one stable isotope, F^^; oxygen has three with weights, 16, 
17, 18; and so on throughout the table, the heavier elements in general 
tending to have a larger number of stable isotopes. It is easy to see 
that many nuclear disintegration processes may give rise to isotopes 
of a particular element which are not found naturally and hence are 
presumably unstable. Thus one can produce F^'', F'^, and F^°, all of 
which are unstable. Such atoms can in general convert themselves 
into stable ones by the ejection of a nuclear particle, and they will 
do so in the course of time. In most cases this is accomplished by 
the ejection of a positive or negative electron.^ These electrons are 
expelled usually with coasiderable energy and the ionization they 
produce is readUy measured. Each unstable atom has a certain 
probable lifetime, which is shorter the more unstable its nuclear 
structure. So, just as in the case of a large population of individuals, 
the number "dying" per unit time is proportional to the total num- 

« Electrons and positrons do not exist as such in the nucleus, but they may be created by the conversion 
of a proton into a neutron and a positron, or by the conversion of a neutron into a proton and an electron, 
the proper amount of energy being supplied or released. 



234 



ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 



ber "living." And if none were being bom the total population would 
decrease exponentially with time. The period, or half-life, is the 
time required for the number living (and also the death rate) to de- 
crease to half its original value. This is just the law which governs 
the radioactivity of the natural radioelements, such as radium. 

As an example, if a C^^ nucleus should capture a proton the result- 
ing nucleus would be N^^, the charge and mass both being increased 
by 1. But W^ is not among the stable isotopes of nitrogen, though 
it could convert itself into the stable C^^ by emitting a positron. 
This is what happens and it is found that W^ has a half-life of about 
11 minutes. That is, if a large number of W^ atoms are formed at 
a given time the number of positrons emitted per second by the whole 
group falls to half its value in each succeeding 11 minute interval. 
It is in general possible by some nuclear process to produce from one 
to six or more radioactive isotopes of every element in the periodic 
table (except hydrogen), and in many cases a particular isotope may 
be produced by several different nuclear reactions. As an example 
the radioactive Na^* with a period of 14.8 hours may be produced by 
bombarding the stable Na^^ by either neutrons or deuterons, by 
bombarding Al by neutrons, or by bombarding Mg by neutrons or 
deuterons; five reactions in all. The properties of Na^* are the same 
no matter how it is produced. On decay the Na^* atom emits a 
negative electron and becomes stable Mg^*. 

A few of the radioactive isotopes of some of the elements which 
occur commonly in biological materials are listed in table I. The 
last column indicates how the isotopes are produced. For example 
the notation B-d-n opposite C^^ indicates the bombardment of boron 
(B) by deuterons (d) with the ejection of a neutron (n), the reaction 
being 

Table I. — Some typical radioactive isotopesA 



Atomic 
number 


Element and 
mass 


Emitted 
particle 


Stable product 


Half-life 


Produced by— 


e 


Cii 


+ 
+ 
+ 

T 


B'l 


20.5 min 


B-d-n, B-p-y. 


7 


N'« 


C" 


llmin 


B-a-n, C-d'P, C-p-y. 


8 


0" 


Nu 


126 sec. 


N-d-n, N-p-7. 


11 


Na" 


Mg" 


14.8 hr.. 


Na-d-n, etc. 


12 


Mg" 


Al" 


10.2 min 

14.5 days - 


Mg-d-n, Al-n-p, Mg-n-y. 


15 


pii 


S» 


P-d-p, 8-d-a, P-n-y, etc 


16 


S" 


CI" 


80 days 


Cl-n-p. 


17 


CI" 


A»s 


37 min.. 


Cl-d-p, Cl-n-y, K-n-a. 


19 


K'« 


Ca" 


12.2 hr 


K-n-Y, K-d-p, etc. 


20 


Ca" 


Sc" 


2.4 hr 


Ca-n-7, Ca-d-p, T-n-a. 


26 


Fe? 


Co 


47 days 


Fe-d-p. 


63 


I1J8 


Xe'« 


25 min 

40 hr 


I-n-y. 


80 


Hg'M 


Tjjoj 


Hg-n-y. 


82 


Pb>o« 


Bi'M 


8.5 days 


Pb-d-p. 













> For a complete tabulation, see Livingston and Bethe, Eev. Mod. Phys., vol. 9, p. 359, 1937. 



NUCLEAR PHYSICS — DTJBRIDGE 235 

The other notations are similar, the symbols p, d, n, a, y standing 
respectively for proton, deuteron, neutron, alpha-particle (He nucleus) 
and gamma-ray. In general the bombarding particle must have an 
energy of from 1 to 5 milUon electron volts. To produce reasonable 
amounts of radioactive material intense beams of such particles must 
be available. This requires a cyclotron or some form of high-voltage 
equipment. 

The possibilities of using these materials in particular biological 
problems are so numerous that we can mention only a few by way of 
illustration. The more obvious possibilities (others are certain to 
come) may be grouped in two classes. 

1. Therapeutic uses. — Radioactive isotopes of suitable elements 
may be injected into the body or directly into the organ to be treat- 
ed. If it is found (and this requires much careful study) that the 
radiations they emit have definite therapeutic effects, then it is pos- 
sible that induced radioactive isotopes may be more conveniently and 
effectively used than the naturally radioactive materials. Of par- 
ticular interest is the possibility of selective irradiation of various 
organs of the body through the use of radioactive isotopes of ele- 
ments which happen to be concentrated in those organs either under 
normal or diseased conditions. Thus one woidd use radioactive 
calcium or phosphorus for bone treatment, radio-iodine for the 
thyroid, etc., the active material going automatically to the spot 
where it is needed. 

The clinical applications of these materials are thus both important 
and possibly spectacular. For this reason they have been perhaps 
prematurely hailed as a new boon to medicine. They certainly open 
up new possibilities, but their practical value is yet to be demonstrated 
and this wiU require a long period of careful research. 

2. Tracing. — From the viewpoint of fundamental biology the use 
of radioactive materials as tracers is of far more interest than the 
therapeutic uses. In this field there are almost unbelievable possibil- 
ities wliich represent the most biologically promising of aU aspects of 
nuclear physics. A prominent physiologist is quoted as stating his 
belief that the technique of using radioactive materials as tracers in 
biology may open a new era in that subject in as fimdamental a way 
as did the invention of the microscope. The microscope made it 
possible to follow individual cells — the radioactive isotopes make it 
possible to follow individual atoms. 

The uses to which this tool could be put are so many that it is as 
yet difficult even to classify them. Almost any chemical or biological 
problem in which it is desirable to follow the course of particular 
elements or compounds through a given system should be open to 
attack by this method. I will mention a few such problems which 
happen to have come to my attention for purpose of illustration. 



236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

1 . The role of phosphorus in bodily metabolism.^ Phosphorus is an 
extremely important element to both plants and animals; phosphates 
appear in the teeth and bones, and the internal organs contain phos- 
phorus in the form of organic compounds, such as the phospholipids. 
Many important questions arise, some of which can be answered by 
chemical methods and some not. How much of the phosphorus intake 
at a given time actually reaches the bones and teeth? How long after 
intake does it arrive at a given point? How rapid is the replacement? 
By what path through the bodily organs does it arrive? How are all 
of these things affected by abnormal conditions of diet or of disease? 
All of these questions and more can be answered by administering 
radiophosphorus — in the food or otherwise — and then following the 
radioactivity as it appears and disappears in various organs, the blood, 
the bones or teeth. Radiophosphorus (P^^) can be made in fairly 
strong samples by deuteron bombardment of ordinary phosphorus. 
The radiophosphorus can be combined into any compound after it is 
activated, and can, therefore, be fed or injected in the most convenient 
form. The half -life of P^^ is about 14.8 days, so the activity of a given 
strong sample may be followed for many months. It decays with the 
emission of an electron, going to S^^ which itself is probably harmless 
but in any case would be formed in amounts far too small to produce 
observable effects. P»y periodically testing the activity of samples 
taken from various parts of the body — either during the life of the 
animal or after killing and ashing — the amount and rate of phosphorus 
arrival may be determined with considerable precision. The many 
possibilities are sufficiently obvious as to require no further discussion 
before tliis group. Some work along this line has already been under- 
taken at various laboratories, with preliminary results which show 
clearly the power, accuracy, and feasibility of the method. Some 
surprising results concerning phosphorus mobilization during certain 
diseases have already been indicated. I shall have to leave them to be 
discussed by those more familiar with biology than I am. 

It is evident that similar studies could be made with almost any 
other element of interest; calcium, potassium, iodine, iron, etc. The 
only question which arises is whether there exists a radioactive isotope 
of the element in question whose period is sufficiently long to make the 
studies feasible. Here, of course, the physicist is somewhat helpless. 
He can make radioactive isotopes at will, but he has no control over the 
period of the resulting product; he must take what comes. Each 
isotope has its own characteristic period, determined by its own 
nuclear instability. The only hope is, if suitable periods of certain 
elements are not now known, that new isotopes will some day be 
discovered which are better adapted for such work. Nature has been 

' The author is indebted to Dr. Wm. F. Bale of the University of Rochester School of Medicine for out- 
lining the uses of radiophosphorus. 



NUCLEAR PHYSICS DUBRmGE 237 

fairly kind in this respect in providing so many periods of suitable 
length, and you may be sure that physicists will be busy for some 
time to come finding new ones. 

2. Evidently a similar technique instead of being used on the body 
as a whole may be applied to studies of metabolism within individual 
organs, in nerves or muscles, even in individual cells. Many physi- 
ologists have already recognized these possibilities, and some have 
already planned programs along this line. 

3. As the chemical nature of viruses, of hormones, and of various 
gland secretions become better known it should be possible to follow the 
behavior of these important but elusive agents, or to gain further 
information about their chemical composition. 

4. There are many purely chemical or biochemical problems to 
which the tracing technique would seem applicable. Studies of chemi- 
cal changes accompanying respiration would seem to be possible with 
the use of radio-oxygen — though the known periods unfortunately 
are rather short. The possibility of tracing individual carbon atoms 
in various organic reactions might well open up a new field in organic 
and biochemistry. 

I think these few examples will serve to illustrate the many possi- 
bilities — some of which will lie along lines which no one can now 
foresee. 

From what has been said you will see that the power of the radio- 
active tracing technique results from the following fortunate facts: 

1. Radioactive isotopes of an element are chemically identical with 
the stable isotopes and will therefore behave in precisely the same way 
in all chemical or biological processes. 

2. The active isotopes can be detected in extremely small quantities. 
In some cases it is possible to detect the presence in a given sample 
of as few as 1,000 atoms of a given isotope. The presence of a million 
atoms would give accurately measurable results. This sensitivity 
results from the fact that impulse counters of various types, such as 
the Geiger-Miiller tube counter, will register each individual /3-ray 
(+ or — electron) entering it. If the geometrical conditions are 
properly chosen, from 0.1 to }^ of all the /3-rays arising in a given sample 
may be made to enter the coimter. The fundamental law of radio- 
active decay is that the number of disintegrations occurring per 
second is proportional to the total number of atoms present, i. e., 

dNfdt=-\N, 

where X=0.693/T where T is the half-Hfe in seconds. Thus for 
T= 1,000 sec. = 17 min. and for Ar= 1,000 

dN/dt=0.Q9o disintegrations per sec. 
=41.5 per minute. 



238 ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

This is an observable number, even if only 1/1 0th of the /3-rays pro- 
duced enter the counter. In the case of P^^ it is easy to prepare samples 
giving more than 10® disintegrations per minute or about 20,000 
per sec. Since T=14.8 days= 1.3X10^ sec, we find A^^3X 10*° radio- 
active atoms. This is only about 10~° microgram. And if 0.01 
percent of this amount appeared in any sample taken from an organism 
it could still be detected. 

3. While it is possible that the presence of radioactive material in 
large quantities in certain organs might have definite biological effects 
on them due to the radiations emitted, and thus give abnormal results 
in metaboUsm experiments, it seems evident that in most cases the 
doses given may be made sufficiently small as to preclude any 
important effects due to the radiation itself. 

4. Finally — and this should be strongly emphasized — the tech- 
nique of detecting and measuring the radioactivity of any material is 
simple and capable of good precision. And when one recalls the days 
or weeks of work required to make a quantitative chemical analysis of 
substances containing a few micrograms of the element of interest, 
and the utter hopelessness of detecting changes involving only 10"*^ 
to 10"** grams, one sees the radioactive technique as child's play. 
And when one recalls that this relatively simple technique not only 
detects these small quantities of material, but actually distinguishes 
between the atoms already present (which were not radioactive) and 
those introduced at a particular time (which are) the possibihties 
become quite exciting. It is almost as though each individual atom 
carried a red flag to herald its presence. (It is even better than this 
since we know too little of the biological effects of red flags !) 

The most common instrument which will likely be used in such 
investigations is the Geiger-Miiller tube counter. This device, 
undoubtedly familiar to you, consists of a conducting cylinder along 
the axis of which is suspended a fine wire. A potential difference of 
the order of 1,000 volts is applied between them. The whole is 
enclosed in a gas-tight envelope filled with air or other gas at a pres- 
sure of a few cm of Hg. A thin window must be provided for the 
entrance of slow j3-particles. The counter wire is connected to a 
two- or three-stage amplifier which feeds a loud speaker or suitable 
registering equipment. The entry of a /S-ray into the cylinder causes a 
cHck in the speaker, or the pulse may be used to operate a mechanical 
register. Counter tube, rectifier, ampHfier, and registering device 
may ail be contained in a box the size of a small radio set.^ Observa- 
tions consist merely in determining the number of registrations per 
unit time. Unfortimately such counters respond also to radioactive 
impurities which are always present in the air and in solid materials of 

• For farther discussion and references see Harnwell and Livingwood, Experimental Atomic Physics 
p. 412, McQraw-HiU, 1933. 



NUCLEAR PHYSICS — DUBRIDGE 239 

the counter itself; and they also respond to cosmic rays. This means 
there will be a background of from 5 to 25 counts per minute which 
must be carefully determined and subtracted from the total observed 
with the source in place. It is this background which limits the 
ultimate sensitivity of the device, for the source being tested should 
produce a number of counts per minute at least as large as the back- 
ground. Statistical fluctuations become important for low counting 
rates but can be reduced by extending the time of counting. A total 
of 10,000 counts must be made if the precision is to be as high as 
1 percent, but only 100 coimts wiU give 10 percent precision. 

It is thus evident that simple readings of a clock and a registering 
device plus a little arithmetic is all that is involved in following 
atoms from place to place through even a complex biological system. 
It has been the experience that biologists who use this technique 
for the first time become wildly excited over the relatively simple way 
in which studies of most fundamental importance can be carried out. 
I shall expect this experience to be often repeated during coming 
years. 



Smithsonian Report. 1933. — DuBridge 



Plate i 




1. The ditference in biological action between X-rays and neutrons is illustrated above. The upper figure 
made by C. T. R. Wilson shows the tracts of electrons ejected from atoms in a cloud chamber by X-rays, 
while the lower one made by E. O. Lawrence shows the recoil protons produced by neutrons traversing 
a cloud chamber. 




2. Cloud chamber photograph showing the emission of positrons by radioactive nitrogen which was pro- 
duced when the carbon plate shown at the right was bombarded by 900,000 electron-volt protons. (Ander- 
son and Neddermeyer.) 



ELECTRON THEORY 



By R. G. Kloeffler 
Fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers 



The discovery of the electron dates back to the beginning of the 
present century. This important event was foreshadowed by many 
early experiments and theories. In 1725, DuFay discovered that the 
gaseous region around a red-hot body would conduct electricity. In 
1879, Crookes found that the rays in his experimental tubes were 
negatively charged particles. Edison's experiments with the incan- 
descent lamp led to the discovery in 1883 that an electric current did 
flow from an incandescent filament to a plate in a vacuum but that 
it would flow in only one direction. This is known as the Edison 
effect. J. J. Thomson is generally given credit for the discovery of 
the electron because of his experiments and reports to the scientific 
world in a period shortly before and after the year 1900. He devel- 
oped a very ingenious method for measuring the charge on the ion 
and secured an approximate value of the magnitude of that charge. 
Wilson and other scientists made some improvements on Thomson's 
method and secured other approximate values for the magnitude of 
the charge of the electron. It remained for an American physicist, 
Robert Millikan, to make further refinements in the method of meas- 
uring the magnitude of the charge and thereby secure results an- 
nounced to the world in 1913 which were absolutely convincing as to 
the existence of and the value of that fundamental electrical charge 
on the electron. This electron was a minute indivisible negative 
charge of electricity having a very small mass. The term "electron" 
has always been associated with the negative charge while the term 
"positive electron" has been associated with another complimentary 
unit, the proton. 

Four years ago a cosmic-ray photograph taken at the Norman 
Bridge Laboratory showed unmistakable evidence of the track of a 
particle having the same mass and the same magnitude as the charge 
on the electron but of the opposite sign. Thus was discovered the 
true positive electron, or what is often termed the positron. This 
recent discovery of the positron has raised many questions in the 
scientific mind and has tended to upset some of our well-accepted 
theories regarding matter. 

• Reprinted by permission from Electrical Engineering, vol. 57, No. 1, January 1938. 

241 



242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

NATURE OF ELECTRICITY 

The scientific world has offered many theories regarding the nature 
of electricity. Benjamin Franklin's single-fluid theory was one of the 
first. His theory pictured a colorless, weightless, invisible fluid or 
"electrical fire" which could permeate all matter. A normal amount 
of this fluid caused a body to be neutral, an excess amount produced 
a positive charge, while a deficiency gave rise to a negative charge. 
Later theories were offered by Faraday, Maxwell, and others. It 
remained for the discovery of the electron to give a definite basis for 
theories and conceptions which would come nearer to satisfying the 
inquiring mind of man. Up until 1910 or later, it was generally con- 
ceded that no one knew anything of the nature of electricity, though 





FiQURK 1.— Stracture of tbe atom Fiqukk 2.— Structure of the hydrogen 

according to Bohr. atom. 

men understood quite well many of the characteristics, properties, 
and laws of magnetism, electric charges, and electric currents. The 
general acceptance of the electron gave rise to new theories and con- 
ceptions in the fields of chemistry, physics, and electricity. The 
molecule had been long considered the smallest divisible part of mat- 
ter, the atom the smallest division of an element, and now the electron, 
an indivisible and fundamental electric charge, a mere speck of elec- 
tricity, became a part of the atom. Science gave the electron a mate, 
a proton, or a positively charged particle having the same charge as 
the electron but a mass 1,834 times as large. Then these two funda- 
mental building blocks, the electron and the proton, became the basis 
of all chemical elements. The difference between the elements was 
determined by the number of pairs (electron and proton) going to 
constitute the atom. Bohr furnished a mechanical model or picture 
to show the structure of the building blocks within the atom. This 
model (fig. 1) envisions a structure hke a small solar system having 
a nucleus surrounded by one or more particles moving in orbits. The 
nucleus has a positive charge and contains all of the protons in the 
atom. It may also contain a part of the electrons, with the remainder 
of the electrons moving in orbits about this nucleus. The hydrogen 



ELECTKON THEORY KLOEFFLER 243 

atom has the simplest structure. It consists of a single proton con- 
stituting the nucleus with a single electron revolving in a surrounding 
orbit (fig. 2). 

To get a conception of the relative physical size of this hydrogen 
atom, all parts of the atom may be imagined to be expanded until 
the nucleus, which is the proton, has the diameter of a basebnll and 
is placed in Dallas, Tex. Then the lone planetary electron will revolve 
in an orbit wliich passes through New York City and San Francisco, 
and the size of this expanded electron will be 300 feet in diameter, or 
about big enough to rest comfortably in a football stadium or a baseball 
park. This picture shows the relatively "big hole" or empty space in 
an atom and explams why some electrons and atomic particles may 
be projected through many atoms before being stopped. 

In order to explain radiation phenomena, Bohr assumed that there 
are a number of possible orbits in which the revolvmg electrons may 
move and that the jumping of the electron from one orbit to another 
is due to the absorption or radiation of energy. Consequently, the 
orbits are often referred to as energy levels. The orbits are pictured 
as circles or ellipses and usually as a combination of both in order to 
explain various atomic phenomena. 

At the time when many electrical engineers were in the college 
classroom, teachers did not attempt to give any physical conception 
of the phenomenon of electricity or of the units of measurement 
which were employed. The scientist, the teacher, and the student of 
former days accepted electrical phenomena as a matter of fact, and, 
in common with the layman, said, "We do not know anything of the 
nature of electricity." Today there are some conceptions which 
have arisen from the discovery and measurements of the electron and 
from our pictures of atomic structure. Thus, to take the case of the 
phenomenon of attraction and repulsion of charged bodies, a posi- 
tively charged body is one in which a large number of electrons have 
been removed from the body so that the total number of positively 
charged protons exceeds the number of electrons present. Thus the 
body has a strong attraction for electrons and it is said to be positively 
charged. In like manner, a negatively charged body has an excess of 
electrons above protons and this body exerts a strong attraction for 
protons, an excess of which may be found in a positively charged 
body. 

ELECTRIC CURRENTS 

Two bodies oppositely charged have a difference of potential be- 
tween them. A difference of potential or voltage is measured by the 
work required to carry a unit positive charge from one body to another 
against the force of attraction or repulsion. The magnitude of the 
difference of potential depends upon the concentration of the charge 

114728—39 17 



244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

and not on the amount of the charge. Thus an excess of a billion 
electrons on a sphere 10 centimeters in diameter would have only one- 
tenth as much potential as it would have if concentrated on a sphere 
1 centimeter in diameter. The 110 volts at the ends of a lighting 
circuit are due to an enormous concentration of electrons along one 
wire and a corresponding deficiency in the other. When a human 
being contacts this circuit, the excess of electrons in one wire attempts 
to pass through the body to the other wire with a result well under- 
stood as far as one's feeling is concerned. 

If a positively charged and a negatively charged body are brought 
in contact, electrons from the body with negative charge (excess of 
electrons) will move over to the body having the positive charge 
(deficiency of electrons) until an equilibrium of charge has taken 
place. This transfer of electrons from one body to another consti- 
tutes an electric current. Thus we can picture the phenomenon of 
electric current as a transfer or coordinated movement of electrons 
along a path or circuit. The protons do not move in solids because 
their mass is 1,834 times as great as the electrons, and because of 
their firm attachment to the atom itself. The magnitude of an 
electric current is determined by the number of electrons which pass 
a given point in a circuit per unit of time. To produce an electric 
current of one ampere, 6.3X10^^ electrons must pass a point in one 
second. The individual electrons may move along the circuit slowly 
or quickly. Thus in a high-voltage vacuum tube, the electrons may 
move with a velocity approaching that of light, whereas in another 
part of the circuit they may drift along at a "snail's pace" of only a 
fraction of a centimeter per second. 

The direction of the movement of electrons in an electric circuit is 
opposite to the conventional direction of current as adopted by 
scientists many years ago. Thus the early choice of direction of 
current was unfortunate in that it complicates conceptions and 
explanations in electronic devices. All remarks in this discussion 
will pertain to the direction of electron movement. 

CURRENT FLOW IN SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS 

An electric current in a solid is due to the movement of "free" 
electrons along that solid. The "free" electrons are not "extras" or 
those electrons above the normal number to balance the protons, but 
rather electrons which at certain instants are free from their parent 
atom to be moved on to another atom in a sort of relay race. Although 
the molecules are close together within a metallic solid, they do have 
a movement due to thermal Idnetic energy and tliis movement increases 
with the temperature. The electrons, in turn, have a movement 
about their nuclei and at certain positions, due to the molecular 
action and the electron action, the electrons may become as close to 



ELECTKON THEORY KLOEFFLER 245 

the nuclei of other atoms as their parent. At that instant the urge 
resulting from a difference of potential can easily move these free 
electrons along the circuit. 

The passage of an electric current through a hquid is easily under- 
stood on the basis of the electron theory. Distilled water is practically 
an insulator but when an acid or base is added to the water it becomes 
a conductor. It appears that part of the molecules of the added 
material automatically dissociate into fragments or ions. Thus 
hydrochloric acid separates into H4- and CI— and sodium chloride 
into NaH- and CI—. This means that the H and Na atoms con- 
stituting the positive ion have lost one electron and are positively 
charged. In a similar manner, the CI atom has an additional electron 
and carries a negative charge. If a difference of potential is applied 
to electrodes in the solution, the negative ions will travel to the 
positive electrode and give up an electron. In like manner, the 
positive ion will travel to the negative electrode and take on an 
electron. Thus the ions serve as carriers to convey electrons through 
the solution and this movement of electrons constitutes the electric 
current. 

CURRENT FLOW IN GASES 

Conduction of electricity through gases is produced through the 
medium of ions as in a liquid but the ions are produced in a different 
manner. Gas ions may result from the bombardment of gas atoms 
by high-speed electrons or ions, and by the action of electromagnetic 
waves of suitable frequency. If a high-speed electron is projected into 
a gas, it will coUide with some of the molecules of that gas. The 
collision usually occurs with the electrons in the outer orbits of gas 
atoms. The result may be merely the change of direction of the 
flying electron or it may be the actul removal of an electron from the 
outer orbit of the gas atom. When the disruption of the atom takes 
place, the remaining part of the atom has lost an electron, is positively 
charged, and is called a positive ion. The electron which is removed 
may remain a free electron and as such it is a negative ion. It may 
join another neutral atom and thus form a negative ion of a different 
kind as far as mass is concerned. 

The two gas ions formed by the bombardment of a single electron 
will move to electrodes having a difference of potential and placed 
within that gas. In transit to the electrodes these gas ions will collide 
with other gas molecules and if the difference of potential is sufficiently 
high and other conditions favorable, these collisions will result in the 
production of other gas ions. The latter ions may likewise produce 
still others while in transit to their respective electrodes. Thus 
ionization of a gas becomes somewhat accumulative in action and 
fairly large currents may result. 



246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

The collisions of electrons and ions with atoms are probably not 
physical contacts as when a baseball bat liits a ball, but rather the 
repulsion between the charges on the individual electrons and ions. 
The molecules of a gas are in a constant state of violent motion and the 
electrons, in turn, are moving about in their respective orbits. It can 
readily happen that the relative directions of motion of the electrons 
are such that an electron is caused to leave its parent atom and 
produce ions. 

An interesting byproduct of ionization occurs when a colliding 
electron does not h.ave suflBcient velocity to produce ionization but 
does cause an electron in an outer orbit to jump to another orbit 
of higher energy level. The energy absorbed by this change of orbit 
is released in the form of a visible electromagnetic wave as soon as the 
electron drops back into its original orbit. The visible radiation or 
light is of a color characteristic of the element constituting the gas 
molecule. Frequently the Ught is monochromatic. This principle 
of light production underlies all of the gaseous and vapor electric 
illuminating sources, such as the neon, mercury-vapor, and sodium- 
vapor lamps. 

RESISTANCE TO CURRENT FLOW 

Electric resistance is that property of a circuit which opposes the 
passage of a current. It is easily explained on the basis of the electron 
theory. In a solid conductor resistance is due to the collision of the 
electrons which constitute the current with the atoms and molecules 
of that solid. The magnitude of the resistance depends on the num- 
ber of free electrons available. In a similar manner, the resistance of 
an electrolyte or gas is determined by the number of ions produced 
and by the number of collisions between the moving ions and the 
molecules present. The influence of temperature on resistance is 
readily explained. In a pure metal a rise in temperature increases 
the kinetic thermal energy, speeds up the motion of the molecules, 
and hence tends to increase the number and the violence of the 
collisions, thus increasing the resistance. 

It is of interest to note that the "hither and yon" movement of free 
electrons in solids does produce infinitesimal differences of potentials 
or voltages at the ends of conductors. These minute voltages intro- 
duce noise termed "resistance noise" in high-gain amplifiers and limit 
the smaUness of signals which can be amplified satisfactorily. 

ELECTRONIC DEVICES 

The first electronic device was the two-electrode tube patented by 
Fleming in 1903 and known for several years as the Fleming valve. 
It took the place of the coherer as a detector of wireless telegraph 
signals. This device has grown to be the detector and the rectifier 



ELECTRON THEORY — KLOEFFLER 



247 



of our modern electronic application. DeForest added a third elec- 
trode or grid to the Fleming valve and patented the three-electrode 
tube in 1907. For many years it was known as the DeForest audion. 
This device was primarily an amplifier of electric current, and it 
constitutes one of the greatest inventions of this century. 



FREEING ELECTRONS FROM SOLIDS 

The operation of most electronic devices depends upon the removal 
of electrons from solids in some manner. One method for removal is 
accomplished by impact on the solid of an electron, an ion, or the 
nucleus of an atom. A violent impact may splash electrons from the 
outer orbits of atoms lying in the surface of the metal. Electrons 
splashed out in this manner are known as delta rays. 

Electrons may also be "brushed out" or released from a few sensi- 
tive substances by the impinging of electromagnetic radiations of 
suitable frequency. The elec- 
tromagnetic radiations are 
hght waves, either visible or 
invisible. This phenomenon 
of electron removal forms the 
basis of action in photoelectric 
cells. 

A third method for the re- 
moval of electrons from solids 
is through the application of 
heat. This method is known 
by the term thermionic emis- 
sion and is used in millions of 
electron tubes of today. The 
nature of this emission is not difficult to visuahze. The electrons are 
bound to the atoms by their attraction for the nucleus. The electrons 
are bound to the molecules and to the substance of which they are a 
part by an attraction called electron affinity and the energy required 
to remove an electron from a substance is termed the work function. 
The molecules are in a constant state of agitation while the electrons, 
in turn, are moving about in the orbits of the atoms. The kinetic 
agitation of the molecules rises with the temperature and at a suffi- 
ciently high temperature the velocity of motion of a few electrons 
may become great enough to break through the surface of the solid. 
This escape of the electron is called emission and it may be pictured 
as in figure 3. Part a shows the emission at a relatively low tempera- 
ture. At the higher temperature a cloud or atmosphere of electrons 
emanates or evaporates from the hot filament or cathode as shown 
in part b. When the electrons are hurled forth by their kinetic energy, 
they give to the cathode an image positive charge which exerts a force 



(a) Cb) 

Figure 3.— Emission of electrons from a heated body. 



248 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

of attraction. Thus as soon as the electron breaks through the sur- 
face, it is attracted back and, barring the presence of other fields and 
forces, it drops back into the cathode. Electron emission was studied 
by Richardson who reasoned that it was similar to the phenomenon of 
evaporation of liquids. Richardson suggested an equation now bear- 
ing his name for showing the magnitude of current emitted. 

The materials used for cathodes which are satisfactory for electron 
emission are tungsten, thoriated tungsten, and oxide-coated alloys. 
Pure tungsten cathodes operate at a high temperature ; they are strong 
and will withstand positive-ion bombardment better than the other 
emitters. The thoriated-tungsten cathode was developed by Lang- 
muir and his coworkers. It consists of tungsten containing a small 
amount of thorium oxide. At a suitably high temperature the oxide 
is reduced to thorium which diffuses through the metal and forms a 
layer of pure thorium on the surface of the cathode. The thorium 
layer, one atom thick is the source of electron emission. Wehnelt 
found that certain oxides when placed on a metal base became excel- 
lent emitters at relatively low temperatures. Strontium and barium 
oxides have proved to be the best. During operation a thin layer of 
barium forms on the surface of the oxide and this serves as the source 
of emission of electrons. 

ACTION OF ELECTRON TUBES 

The value of nearly all electron tubes lies in their property of uni- 
lateral conductivity (that is, the ability to conduct current in one 
direction but not in the other). This property was shown in the 
"Edison effect" and was the basis of action of the Fleming valve. 
The reason for this property can be readily understood. Consider 
two electrodes placed in a tube having a high vacuum as shown in 
figure 4. Let F represent the cathode which is heated so as to be 
emitting a copious supply of electrons and P is the anode connected 
through a battery to the cathode. If the battery is comiected so that 
P is positive with respect to the cathode, as in a, the negatively charged 
electrons will be attracted toward P and part of them will land on 
P, thus constituting an electric current through the vacuum. How- 
ever, if the battery be connected so that P is negative with respect 
to F, as in part 6, it will repel the electrons and no current will pass. 
Obviously, if an alternating source of potential be substituted for the 
battery, electrons will pass to P for those loops of voltage when P is 
positive but will not do so when P is negative. Thus this two- 
electrode device becomes a rectifier of alternating current. The 
factors which control the flow of electrons between the cathode and 
the anode or plate P are not entirely evident on the surface. Thus 
the number of electrons which pass to P in a tube having a high 



ELECTRON THEORY — KLOEFFLER 



249 



vacuum depends first on the initial velocity of emission of the electrons 
which is determined by the temperature of the cathode; second, upon 
the attraction of the cathode for the electrons; third, upon the attrac- 
tion of the plate which depends on the plate voltage; and, fourth, 
upon the space charge. The fourth factor, space charge, is due to 
the resultant charge in the space surrounding the cathode caused by 
the presence of the electrons which are being emitted. A cloud of 
electrons surrounding a cathode may be pictured as in figure 3. 
Each of these electrons is a negative charge and as such exerts a re- 
pulsion on all other electrons in its vicinity. At the instant a par- 
ticular electron emerges from the cathode, all electrons in space are 
exerting a repelling force but as it moves away from the cathode all 
of those behind it are repelling or now aiding it toward the plate. 
The influence of space charge is very effective in a high vacuum and 
it was once believed that no emission would exist in a perfect vacuum. 
The two-electrode high-vacuum tube with tungsten filament is used for 
rectifying high voltages for use 
in radio-transmitting stations, 
X-ray equipment, smoke eli- 
minators, and wherever a high 
continuous voltage is desired. 
The two-electrode vacuum 
tube is used as a detector in 
modern radio-receiving sets. 

The addition of a small 
amount of gas to a two-elec- 
trode tube changes its characteristic action. The presence of the gas 
permits ionization to occur and the positive and negative ions thus 
formed pass to the cathode and anode, respectively. The ions serve 
as carriers of electrons and increase the current slightly but a large in- 
crease in current results from another action. Thus the negative ions 
formed are electrons and are attracted swiftly to the positive anode. 
The positive ions are atoms (less one or more electrons) and because 
of their large mass they move relatively slowly. Each positive ion 
can neutraUze the charge on one electron in the space charge at a 
given instant, but because of its slow motion it serves to neutralize 
many electrons while in transit. Thus it is possible for a single 
positive ion to neutralize successively as many as 300 electrons in the 
space charge. The neutralization of the space charge permits the 
positive anode to attract many more emitted electrons and thus the 
current through the tube is greatly increased. 

The gas-filled two-electrode tube is inherently a low-voltage device 
(that is, it has a low voltage drop from cathode to anode). It rectifies 
much larger currents than the vacuum type and is used for charging 
storage batteries and similar low-power D. C. applications. 




FiGUEE 4. — Diagram of two-electrode tube or diode. 



250 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 



.GRID 
^ -PLATE 



CONTROL OF ELECTRON TUBES 

DeForest added a third electrode, known as the grid, to the electron 
tube. In application in the tube, the grid (fig. 5) is a screen or wire 
mesh placed between the emitter or cathode and the anode or plate. 
The grid functions by means of a change of potential or charge upon 
its surface. This change of potential on the grid becomes an addi- 
tional force acting upon the electrons surrounding the cathode and 
because of its nearness to the cathode exerts a very powerful influence 
upon the electron stream to the anode. The figure is a cross-sectional 
view which shows the usual location of the control grid in a three- 
electrode tube or triode. If a small positive potential be placed upon 
the grid, it will exert a relatively powerful pull upon all electrons 
which emerge from the surface of the cathode. This pull will be 
added to the effect of their initial velocity of emission and will oppose 
the repelling effect of space charge. The result of this action is that 

many electrons will move out farther from 
tlie cathode and come under the influence 
of the positive anode and thus pass to 
the anode. Any increase in the positive 
potential of the grid will cause still more 
of the electrons to move to the plate. 
Conversely, a small negative potential on 
the grid will repel every electron that 
emerges from the cathode and add its 
weight to the effects of space charge and 
cathode attraction. Thus many electrons 
which otherwise would be carried far 
enough by their initial velocity of emission 
to travel to the plate will now be held in 
check by the repelling force of the negative grid. It is obvious that 
a sufficiently negative potential on the grid would bar all electrons 
from ever reaching the anode. Thus it is apparent that a suitable 
variation of potential placed on the grid will control accurately the 
flow of current in the cathode-anode circuit. Since a mere change of 
potential does not involve any expenditure of power we have the 
strange phenomenon of controlling a large amount of power with- 
out the use of any power. In the actual application of the triode 
or three-electrode tube, the circuit for the grid does use some smaU 
amount of power. The triode thus is inherently an amplifier of 
alternating currents and as such it finds its greatest application. 




FlOOBE 5.- 



-Diagram of three-eloctrode 
tube or triode. 



USE OF ELECTRON TUBES 

Ra dio signals of telegraph, voice, or television are sent out through 
space by means of very high-frequency alternating currents called 
carriers. This method is necessary since lower frequencies will not 



ELECTRON THEORY — KLOEFFLER 



251 



travel through space very far. The various low-frequeDcy signals to 
be transmitted are impressed upon the high frequencies by a process 
of forming, molding, or modulating. At the receiving end of a radio 
circuit the impressed signals must be demodulated or detected and 
thus recovered from the high-frequency carrier. 

The three-electrode tube or triode is used first as an oscillator in a 
resonant circuit for producing the high-frequency carrier current. 
Secondly, this type of tube is used to modulate or mold the low- 
frequency signal into the high-frequency carrier. In the third place, 
the triode may be used in the receiver as a detector or remover of the 
low-frequency signal from the transmitted carrier. Lastly, triodes 
are used in cascade for amplifying the feeble received signal so that 
it may be suitable for the desired purpose. 

Additional electrodes, usually some type of grid, have been added 
to the three-electrode tube to increase the range of amplification, to 
improve the fidelity of amplification, or to 
prevent oscillations. The heavy loading 
of a triode by wide fluctuations in the 
grid potential and the resulting plate cur- 
rent may introduce distortion of the ampli- 
fied signal and may produce oscillations 
because of the feedback of the grid-plate 
capacitance. To reduce such undesirable 
results, a fourth electrode known as a 
screen grid may be introduced between 
the control grid and the plate, as shown 
in figure 6. This screen grid is connected 
to a source giving it a fixed potential 
somewhat under the normal plate voltage. 
The screen then serves to establish a fixed 

potential in space giving a constant attraction upon all emitted elec- 
trons regardless of any variation of plate voltage and it greatly 
reduces the grid-plate capacitance. 

A curious phenomenon may result in the use of the screen-grid tube 
if a low plate voltage be encountered. Thus, at all positive values of 
plate voltage above 10 to 20 volts, the electrons hitting the plate 
produce secondary emission (splash out electrons from the plate). In 
the triode these electrons of secondary emission are attracted back to 
the plate but in the screen-grid tube for a certain range of low values 
of plate potential, the splashed-out electrons are attracted back to the 
screen grid (fig. 7). In special cases it is possible for more electrons 
of secondary emission to go to the screen grid than there are electrons 
arriving at the plate. Under this condition the plate current will 
reverse or become negative. Even though the plate current does not 
reverse, the electrons of secondary emission, which pass to the screen 




FiGUBE 6. — Diagram of four-electrode 
tube or tetrode. 



252 



ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



CONTROL GRID 



grid, do introduce distortion in the tube when used as an amplifier 
under the conditions assumed. To prevent this phenomenon, which 

occurs only under abnormal 
conditions, a fifth electrode 
known as a suppressor grid is 
placed between the screen grid 
and the plate. This suppressor 
grid (fig. 8) is connected to the 
cathode or to ground potential. 
Thus a zero potential is estab- 
lished in the space between 
the screen grid and the plate. 
Under these conditions the 
screen grid has no effect on the 
electrons splashed out and all 
return to the plate so that no 
distortion can be introduced 
due to this cause. The elec- 
tron tube containing the five 
electrodes is called a pentode. 




20 VOLTS 

Hllllllh 

Figure 7. — Secondary emission in a tetrode. 



It will produce large power outputs with relatively small signal 
voltages applied to the grid. 



CONTROL GRID 



SUPPRESSOR 
GRID 




RECTIFIERS 

Recently the term mutator 
has been suggested to cover 
those forms of electronic devices 
which are designed for rectify- 
ing alternating current for power 
purposes. The term mutator 
thus includes grid-controlled 
hot-cathode rectifiers, mer- 
cury-arc rectifiers, and igniter- 
type mercury-arc rectifiers or 
ignitrons. 

If the vacuum-type triode 
previously discussed be changed 
by the addition of gas under 
low pressure and if the grid be 
changed so that it completely 
surrounds the cathode, then a tube possessing some different and 
desirable properties is obtained. If this tube be connected in the 
circuit of figure 9, practically no current will fiow from the cathode 
to the anode when the grid is free or not connected to any source of 



Hl-H[ 



FiGUEE 8.- 



-Prevention of secondary emission by fifth 
electrode in a pentode. 



ELECTRON THEORY KLOEFFLER 



253 



potential. This action is due to the fact that electrons emitted by 
the cathode land on the grid and make the grid negative. This 
negative grid repels nearly all electrons and does not permit many 
to pass through the meshes of the grid to the plate. If the grid is kept 
negative enough, the electrons cannot attain sufficient velocity to 
cause ionization and the tube is nonconducting between cathode and 
anode. As the grid is made less negative a point is reached where 
the electron velocity is great enough to cause ionization. Positive 
ions will then form a sheath around the grid and neutralize its effect 
and a large current flows to the anode. This current is limited only 
by the impedance of the anode circuit. Once started, the cathode- 
anode current cannot be stopped by any change of potential on the 
grid. If the grid circuit is opened, the positive ions will neutralize 
any electrons which land on the grid, and if the grid be made more 
negative, it will attract positive ions to its meshes and the resulting 
positive ion sheath will again neutralize the negative grid so that the 
cathode-anode current stream will be 
unaffected. The only way the anode 
current can be stopped when direct cur- 
rent is applied to the plate is to open 
the anode circuit. 

The hot-cathode grid-controlled gas- 
eous-conductor tube or thyratron finds 
its usefulness when an alternating poten- 
tial is applied to its anode circuit. Again, 
the tube can be started by placing a 
positive potential on the grid and the tube 
will function as a half-wave rectifier as 
long as the grid remains positive. If the 
positive potential be removed from the 
grid, the anode current will go to zero at the next negative wave of 
potential. Thus the starting and stopping of the rectification process 
can be controlled simply and perfectly (without arcing) by the appli- 
cation of a continuous potential to the grid. The grid may also be 
excited by a low alternating potential from the same source as the 
anode supply. If the grid and anode potential are in step, complete 
single-wave rectification will occur. If the grid potential be made to 
lag the anode potential, then rectification will start after the beginning 
of the cycle and the time and magnitude of the rectified current can 
be controlled. Thus a shift of phase of the grid voltage through 180° 
wUl vary the rectified current from zero to a maximum of half-wave 
rectification. The thyratron gives fine control of rectified current 
and finds a wide application in theater-stage lighting, flood-lighting, 
motor speed control, and elsewhere. 




Figure 9. — Diagram of a grid-controlled 
gas-flUed rectifier. 



254 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Mercury-arc rectifiers have been used for rectification for many 
years. They operate upon the principle of a hot spot upon a mercury- 
pool cathode maintained by positive-ion bombardment. The arc is 
started by means of an aiunliary electrode. During recent years 
mercury-arc rectifiers have been built in large capacities for supplying 
direct current for electric railway operation. These rectifiers have 
been built in large steel tanks and use 3, 6, or 12 phases with a corres- 
ponding number of electrodes for anodes. For starting the main arc 
an auxiliary or exciting electrode must be in operation all of the time. 
The ionization produced by this auxiliary electrode produces condi- 
tions favorable for an arc-back or a reversal of the rectified current. 
Hence the anodes must be very carefully shielded and the arc path 
must be relatively long. 

Quite recently a new method for starting the mercury arc in the 
rectifier has been invented by Slepian and Ludwig. The device using 
this new principle is called the ignitron. The ignitron is a mercury- 
arc rectifier ha%H[ng a third electrode or ignitor which consists of a rod 
of suitable refractory material which projects through the side of the 
tube and has a point dipping into the mercury pool. The ignitor 
electrode serves to fire the arc at will just as the grid of the thyratron 
may start the gaseous conduction. If the ignitor electrode be made 
positive with respect to the cathode pool and a suitable critical current 
be permitted for a few microseconds, a tiny spark occurs between the 
ignitor and mercury. If the anode potential is positive and of suitable 
value, this tiny spark expands into an arc which is transferred to the 
anode through the ionization process previously considered. The arc 
forms a very low resistance path for the passage of current. 

The ignitor principle may be used for a single current surge of half- 
wave rectification or it may be used for several waves, or for continuous 
operation. The ignition process must be repeated each tim^e the 
alternating anode potential becomes positive. The ignitor electrode 
may be fired from the same A. C. source of potential as the anode. Also 
the phase relation of the ignitor voltage to anode voltage may be 
varied to give only partial or even zero time of rectification. Thus 
the ignitron has the same control characteristics as the thyratron. 
The ignitron is inherently suited for larger current values of rectified 
current than the thyratron. The advantages of the ignitron over 
the mercury-pool rectifier are long life of mercury-pool type of cathode, 
and low voltage drop in arc since cathode and anode may be very 
close together. The latter advantage results because no arc-back can 
occur on reverse cycle since firing occurs only at desired time (and 
not continuously due to auxiliary electrode). The applications of the 
ignitron include simple continuous rectification, rectification with 
control, motor speed control, welding, and circuit breaking with 
quicker response than mechanical devices. 



ELECTRON THEORY KLOEFFLER 255 

PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS 

It was suggested earlier that electrons may be ejected from some 
solids by the impingement of light rays. It appears that the high- 
frequency electromagnetic wave (visible or invisible) has the power 
of imparting energy to the electrons in the outer orbits of atoms of 
certain photosensitive materials so that these electrons are released 
or torn from the atom and fly out into space. This phenomenon 
forms the basis of action of the photoelectric cell or the "electric eye" 
which is so widely used in many control applications. The more 
common light-sensitive materials are sodium, potassium, barium, 
strontium, a»nd some of their compounds. The photoelectric cell 
usually consists of an evacuated tube containing a large area of light- 
sensitive material and a small anode or wire near the center. The 
cell is connected into a circuit so that a positive potential is applied to 
the anode. Whenever light falls on the light-sensitive cathode, 
electrons are emitted and attracted to the anode. The actual current 
flowing in the cathode-anode circuit is very small and amounts to only 
a few microamperes at the best. This small current produces a small 
voltage drop across a resistance. This potential is amplified by means 
of other electron tubes to produce a signal for performing the purpose 
desired. The number of electrons emitted from a light-sensitive 
surface is directly proportional to the intensity of light falling upon 
that surface. Thus a v^ariation of light intensity may be transformed 
into an electric signal to perform a desired purpose. This principle 
is used in the sound production for the talking picture where a sound 
track on the film varies the light intensity falling on a photoelectric 
cell. The photoelectric cell may also be used for picture transmission, 
for television, and for all kinds of signal applications. 

Photoelectric cells may have a high vacuum or may contain gas 
under low pressure. The emission of electrons by the impingement 
of light rays is the same in both types. The resulting current to the 
anode in the vacuum type is equal to the electron emission, but in the 
gaseous type the current is amplified several times (in practice not 
exceeding 10 times) by the addition of current from the gas ions which 
are formed during the transit of electrons from the cathode to the 
anode. 



GEOLOGY IN NATIONAL AND EVERYDAY LIFE ' 



By George R. Mansfield 
U. S. Geological Survey 



INTRODUCTION 

To a surprisingly large number of people the word "geology" sug- 
gests nothing definite or practical, nothing associated with national or 
everyday life. Nevertheless, geology is concerned with the materials 
man uses in building his houses and great industrial plants. It deals 
with the metals of which his car is composed and with the fuels with 
which he drives his car or heats his house. It has to do with the sea- 
soning and preservation of his food, with the water he drinks, and with 
the scenery which greets his eyes every morning. It considers the 
destructive hazards that form part of his environment in many parts 
of the world, such as floods, earthquakes, and volcanic activity, and is 
concerned as well with the gentler moods of nature that calm his spirit 
and inspire his imagination. 

Minerals enter into all phases of our modern civilization. Geology 
deals with the occurrence and distribution of minerals and with the 
laws and forces that tend to create or destroy them. Industry must 
know where suitable supplies of minerals for its needs may be obtained 
and what conditions are imposed by nature on their successful recovery 
and exploitation. Federal, State, and local governments must know 
whether mineral supplies, within their respective jurisdictions, are of 
suitable quality or adequate to meet the needs of their citizens. They 
must have information on the geologic conditions affecting the sites 
of constructional works, such as dams, reservoirs, bridges, and the 
foundations of public buildings; on the problems of water supply and 
sanitation; and on the wise use and conservation of their mineral re- 
sources. The individual must earn his living and gain his inspiration 
amid surroundings from which geology constantly speaks to him. 
It seems pertinent, therefore, to consider in some detail the relation 
between geology and our national and everyday life. 

1 Address of the retiring vice president and chairman of the section on geology, American Association (or 
the Advancement of Science, Indianapolis, December 31, 1937. Published by permission of the Director, 
U. S. Geological Survey. Reprinted by permission from Science, vol. 87, No. 2247, January 21, 1938. 

257 



25S AISTNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAiST INSTITUTION, 19 38 

RAMIFICATIONS OF GEOLOGY 

Geology is concerned with all agencies and phenomena that have 
affected the earth in the past or are affecting it now. Some agencies, 
such as the sun's energy, act upon the earth entirely from without. 
Others act chiefly at the earth's surface. Among them are streams, 
glaciers, winds, and waves. Still others, such as volcanism, earth- 
quakes, and mountain-building agencies, act chiefly within the body 
of the earth, though each of these may have strongly developed sur- 
face manifestations. Gravity acts from without the earth as an 
astronomical agency, but is also associated with every activity at the 
earth's surface and within its mass. 

The geologist reads and interprets the geologic record in the rocks. 
But this involves consideration of the agencies above mentioned and 
through them the use of facts and techniques of other sciences, princi- 
pally chemistry, physics, biology, and astronomy. A border zone lies 
between geology and each of these sciences so that whether an in- 
vestigation is geological may depend on its viewpoint or emphasis 
rather than on the facts or techniques employed. 

The borderline sciences, geochemistry and geophysics, have devel- 
oped to consider problems that fall between the adjacent fields in- 
dicated by the names.'' 

Mineralogy may be cited as an example of the dependence of geol- 
ogy on other sciences. Mineralogy has long been dependent on chem- 
istry and optical physics for accurate determinations of mineral species. 
More recently it has made use of the X-ray. Mineralogy applied 
to rock study has developed into petrology; similarly applied to the 
study of useful minerals it has developed into economic geology. 
Both geochemistry and geophysics are extensively utilized in economic 
geology, and geophysics has now become an important aid to the 
petroleum geologist in his search for oil and gas. However, the view- 
point of geology, the interpretation of the earth's history, is its own, 
and geology's dependence on other sciences is probably no greater 
than their dependence on it. 

Geology ramifies also into business, national, and private life. 

GEOLOGY AND THE MINERAL INDUSTRIES 

The mineral industries include, generally, those dependent on the 
discovery and mining of mineral substances and their manufacture 
into useful products. They give employment to many thousands of 
our citizens. According to the Minerals Yearbook, 1937, published 
by the Bureau of Mines, the mining industry by itself ranks last 
among the four primary industries in the United States with respect 
to capital invested, value of products, or number of workers employed. 

' For a broader interpretation of geophysics, see Hubbert, M. K., The place of geophysics in a depart- 
ment of geology, Amer. Inst. Min. and Met. Eng., Tech. Publ. 945, February meeting, 1938. 



GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE — MANSFIELD 259 

Actually, however, these industries are interdependent. Manufactur- 
ing needs minerals both for its machines and for the power to operate 
them. The products of mines contribute nearly two-tliirds of the 
revenue freight handled by the railroads and about one-fourth of the 
ocean-borne traffic. Agriculture requires minerals for fertilizers and 
farm implements, and minerals serve to link farms and markets. 
Highways, railroads, trucks, and trains are all of mineral origin. 

To those who actually mine coal, iron ore, and other minerals, the 
relation of geology to their everyday lives can hardly fail to be evident. 
The continuity of a vein, the nature of the ground, whether hard or 
soft, broken or stable, are factors which control the nature and speed 
of each day's work and the daily risk of personal safety. Similarly, 
the oil or water driller must keep close watch of the nature and attitude 
of the rocks through which he is drilling his well. Those who fabricate 
the product of the mines and wells are further removed from the direct 
effects of geology, but they are no less dependent on it, because their 
employment is contingent on the constant supply of a uniform material 
suitable for the manufacture of their special product. 

Water is as truly mineral as petroleum or other hydrocarbons, and 
the question of adequate water supply is closely linked with mineral 
industries. Water is so essential to all phases of human life that no 
one can escape the consequences of failure, interruption, or contamina- 
tion of his regular supply. An adequate supply of water is contingent 
on numerous factors, many of which are geological. 

The economic geologist is employed to aid in the discovery of mineral 
resources, to work out their relations in the ground, and to obtain 
quantitative data on which to base estimates of reserves. He must 
consider grade and accessibility, as these factors ultimately determine 
whether a given mineral deposit can be exploited at current price 
ranges. The use of sound geological investigation and advice is essen- 
tial if waste and suffering are to be avoided by the public when 
attempts are made to work an unprofitable mining property, to drill 
for oU in unfavorable places, or to unload questionable mining or 
drilling enterprises on the market. 

Metals. — The geologist engaged in studying metallic minerals must 
devote a large share of his time in the field to the available under- 
ground workings in such mines as are accessible to him, besides 
acquainting himself with the surface geology of as much of the region 
as the limits of his time and funds will permit. He thus gains a 
better three-dimensional picture of the whole geologic set-up than 
would be possible from a study of surface relations alone. His maps, 
sections, and laboratory studies serve to control actual mining opera- 
tions and guide explorations for further supplies of ore. The increas- 
ing use of geologists on the staffs of mining companies bears witness to 

114728—39 18 



260 A]sr:NUAL report Smithsonian institution, 19 3 8 

the increasing need of the mining industry for geologic advice and 
to the growing recognition of that need. 

Nonmetals. — In the field of nonmetallic mineral deposits the recog- 
nition of the need of geologic advice has grown more slowly and in 
fact can hardly yet be said to be widespread. Nonmetallic mineral 
resources are in general so abundant, lie so near the surface, and are 
so cheap, relatively spealdng, that producers have given little thought 
to their geologic aspects. However, it not infrequently happens that a 
producer, say, of sand and gravel, locates his plant near a talus pile, 
which he mistakes for a bedded deposit of suitable thickness and 
quality. Wlien further work discloses that the actual deposit from 
which the talus is derived is merely a thin cap at a higher elevation, he 
is faced with the problem of relocating his plant, changing its layout, 
or abandoning it altogether. 

Some industries in the nonmetallic field utilize underground methods 
of mining. For example, mica, feldspar, talc, magnesite, gypsum, 
fluorite, and some phosphates are among the minerals so mined. 
More recently underground methods have been successfully applied 
to the mining of limestone, slate, sandstone, and even granite at 
different places. Special processes for recovering salt and sulphur by 
underground solution or melting and pumping have been devised 
which differ from ordinary mining methods, but the successful loca- 
tion and development of such an enterprise, as in the other instances, 
depends fundamentally on laiowledge of the geology of the area in 
which lies the deposit to be mined, or otherwise recovered. 

Again supplies of construction materials for buUding and other 
activities in the vicinity of large cities or large engineering projects 
tend to become depleted fairly rapidly and search for such materials 
has to be extended farther and farther from these centers. Here 
a good geologic map is of the greatest service whether or not it was 
originally prepared to serve economic needs. For regional planning, 
where constructional activities are contemplated, the areal geologic 
map of the United States has been found a valuable guide for more 
detailed investigations. Similarly, State geologic maps and geologic 
maps of individual areas, such as those provided in the folios of the 
Geological Survey, have repeatedly proved their worth in locating 
suppUes of necessary construction materials. For example, the State 
geologic map of Alabama shows the distribution in the northern part 
of the State of extensive deposits of gravel in areas mapped as Tus- 
caloosa formation and large areas of valuable limestone for building 
in the Bangor limestone. Special economic maps, such as that of the 
Tennessee Valley, prepared by the Geological Survey, indicate the 
distribution of a wide variety of mineral deposits. The use of such 
information may often result in large savings both in time and money, 



GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE MANSFIELD 261 

not only by pointing out more favorable areas but also by preventing 
search in unfavorable areas. 

Fuels — coal. — Geologists in Federal and State surveys, as well as 
those in private employ, have labored many years to make known the 
nature and extent of the nation's coal resources. We now know in 
greater or less detail where the deposits of coal of different ranks, from 
lignite to anthracite, lie, how extensive they are, how rich in heating 
value, and which beds among them are best adapted for such purposes 
as coking and steam production. Some years ago the Geological 
Survey published a map showing the nature and distribution of the 
coal fields of the United States, which has proved a very useful sum- 
mary. Although the number of publications emanating from these 
sources is large, the work is far from complete because of the wide 
distribution of the deposits and the refinements of study needed in 
getting desired information. 

Petroleum and natural gas. — In recent years the search for new 
supplies of petroleum and natural gas has become increasingly the 
task of the geologist and the geophysicist. In this task paleontology 
has acquired greater economic interest and importance than in any 
other branch of the mineral industry. Fifty years or so ago, who 
would have thought that a matter of prime importance to a great 
industry would be the stratigraphic position and depth below the sur- 
face of certain beds of rock whose chief characteristic is their content 
of tiny fossils? Yet now in certain oil-bearing regions such beds serve 
to outline, or help outline, the shape, size, and position of oil and gas 
pools. Our knowledge of subsurface geology, on which the search 
for oil now largely depends, has been built up by the geologist, patiently 
gathering and comparing data from well cuttings and cores, identifying 
fossils — including many of microscopic size — determining mineral 
particles and preparing the maps and sections on which the collected 
data are assembled and summarized. 

The geophysical prospecting now in wide use in the search for oil 
and gas derives much of its usefulness from the great body of data 
assembled and integrated by geologists. The efi^ectiveness of geo- 
physical combined with geologic methods has been well shown in 
many parts of the United States, especially in Texas and Louisiana 
near the Gulf of Mexico, where many oil fields and salt domes have 
been thus located, in California, where oil pools are being tapped at 
great depths, and more recently in the central Illinois basin. The 
geologist is indispensable to the oil industry. The literature on geo- 
physical prospecting is increasing at a rapid rate. A quarterly 
Geological Survey bulletin of about 300 abstracts is now required 
merely to outline these publications. 

The contributions of the petroleum geologists to geologic literature 
and philosophy have greatly stimulated interest in the deeper rocks and 



262 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

structures of the earth's crust, in problems of sedimentation, ancient 
shorelines, and continental history. In this connection, David White's 
carbon ratio theory deserves particular mention. The essence of it is 
that organic substances in sedimentary rocks share in the ordinary 
metamorphic changes induced by compaction and folding of the 
deposits. Oils and coals of different ranks are produced and modified 
by these changes at relatively low temperatures and by a sort of 
cracking process, whereby the more volatile hydrocarbons are Uberated 
while the fixed carbon remains, thus increasing the ratio of the "fixed" 
to the volatile carbon. As these metamorphic effects become more 
intense, the cracking process reaches a "dead fine" beyond which no 
oil or gas pools may be expected. This theory explains many facts 
regarding the mode of occurrence of petroleum and some of the differ- 
ences in its character from place to place. By indicating areas where 
the search for oil would be unprofitable, it has saved producers 
millions of dollars. 

The relationship of geology to the life and interests of a community 
is nowhere more definitely recognized and more strongly appreciated 
than among the people living in the oil-producing parts of the country. 
Even a brief sojourn in such a community sujQSces to show that the 
common man has a keen understanding of such geologic terms as 
anticline, structure, dip, and strike, and of the part these features 
may play in finding oil. 

GEOLOGY IN THE CONSTRUCTIONAL INDUSTRIES 

In recent years the imagination of the public has been stirred by 
plans involving engineering construction projects on an unprecedented 
scale. Some of these projects are already in progress and popular 
attention has been directed to such centers as Norris, Tenn. ; Gunters- 
ville, Ala.; Boulder Dam, Ariz.-Nev. ; Bonneville Dam, Oreg.-Wash. ; 
Grand Coulee Dam, Wash., and Fort Peck, Mont., where construc- 
tion of large river-control projects is already well advanced. 

The geologic conditions at each of these sites presented problems 
or even hazards that had to be solved and met by special engineering 
devices before success for the constructional end of the project could 
be assured. At one site, for example, the difficulties centered in the 
relative porosity and cavernous character of the limestones on which 
the dam was to be seated. At another, ground movement, through 
landslides, introduced serious hazards. At still another, the occur- 
rence of large supplies of hot water denoting disturbed structural 
conditions at the proposed dam site had to be taken into account. 
The engineers in charge, mindful of previous disasters where work of 
this sort had been done without sufficient regard to attending geo- 
logic conditions, called upon geologists for help. As the sites selected 



GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE MANSFIELD 263 

have special advantages not easily duplicated, it remained for the 
geologist and the engineer jointly to work out methods for overcoming 
these diflficulties. This seems in large measure to have been accom- 
plished, and the public has much reason to hope that the structures 
will prove stable when completed. 

Some years ago the Government undertook the project of building 
a large reservoir in a western valley for the purpose of irrigation 
storage. The site had been selected after a careful investigation by a 
well-known consulting engineer, who reported that it had several 
advantages over competing sites and that the construction involved 
no special problems. When drilling began for the selection of a dam 
site, trouble arose from drilling water, which disappeared almost as 
fast as it could be poured into the drill holes. Geological investiga- 
tion showed that the ground-water table in the vicinity of the proposed 
dam site was nearly 100 feet below the surface. The rocks on which 
the dam was to be seated were porous and fractured lavas, resting on 
thick but poorly consolidated and porous volcanic ash. The pro- 
posed dam would surely allow water to flow away beneath and around 
the dam without providing the desired storage. The site was aban- 
doned, and the resulting saving to the Government in avoiding the 
umvise proposed construction was approximately $2,000,000. 

Although the geologist is indispensable in helping to solve problems 
encountered in great constructional projects, he is even more necessary 
when it comes to the consideration of the sources of supply and the 
nature of the mineral substances that enter into any modern con- 
structional project, great or small. At the time the Boulder Dam 
was under construction, the technical journals and locally the daily 
newspapers carried accounts of the enormous quantities of sand and 
gravel, cement, steel, etc., that were needed and used, and of special 
types of equipment designed to handle these materials. Similarly, 
for the other projects, much information of this sort is available. 

Some years ago E. F. Burchard and G. F. Loughlin compiled con- 
struction data, not pubhshed, for the Interior Department, North 
Building, in Washington, D. C. This is a modern office building, 
completed for occupation in 1917. It occupies an entire city square. 
According to Burchard and Loughlin's figures, about 8,000 tons of 
metals, more than two-thirds of it structural steel, was utilized. 
Interesting items in this connection are 20 tons of bronze in locks and 
49 miles of wire used in signalling and lighting but not for telephones. 
The nonmetalUc minerals used total about 82,500 tons. Of this 
amount more than a third consisted of sand, gravel and crushed stone; 
clay products, largely hollow tile and building brick, made up another 
third. Then came Indiana limestone, plaster and cement and a num- 
ber of others. These materials came from 28 States and 3 foreign 
countries. 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Oliver Bowles, in the magazine, Stone, June 1932, gives an account 
of the stones used in the Department of Commerce BuUding in Wash- 
ington. This building covers a ground area of approximately 8 acres 
and is one of the largest office buildings in the world. Indiana lime- 
stone was the stone most largely used. Of this about 700,000 cubic 
feet, or 1,100 carloads, was required. Granite from Stony Creek, 
Conn., amounted to 75,000 cubic feet. Other interesting items about 
this building include 7}^ mUes of corridor floored with terrazzo chips 
patterned with small tile; 6 miles of wall base along the corridors 
covered with polished black Isle La Motte, Vt., marble, and more 
than 16 miles of baseboard manufactured from slate obtained in the 
Pen Argyl district of Pennsylvania. The stones used in this building 
came from ten States and one foreign country. 

The figures cited show something of the nature, diversity, and 
amount of the mineral substances that enter into the construction of 
large modern buUdings. When one considers how many new build- 
ings, both large and small, are being constructed throughout the 
country each year, and realizes that to obtain an idea of the total 
quantity of minerals used in their construction the figures given 
above must be multiplied enormously, he can better understand the 
meaning of the statistical summaries of mineral production published 
each year, formerly by the Geological Survey and now by the Bureau 
of Mines. These figures, of course, include not only the costs of 
minerals entering into building construction, usually f. o. b. mine or 
quarry, but the entire range of industrial and commercial activity in 
which minerals are used. For 1936, the latest year for which figures 
have been assembled, the Bureau of Mines shows a grand total of 
$4,582,000,000 for the value of the output of mineral products in the 
United States. The greatest contributor was mineral fuels 
($2,706,300,000) followed by metallic products ($1,064,000,000). 
nonmetallic products ($789,700,000) and "unspecified" ($22,000,000). 

It has been emphasized by geologists and economists, but will bear 
repetition, that the mineral resources of the country are diminishing 
assets. When once used they can only in relatively small measure 
be reclaimed and used again. Periodic mineral inventories, therefore, 
are essential to provide the best picture of our outlook regarding the 
future supplies and utilization of minerals, and these inventories are 
founded on geologic information. 

GEOLOGY IN PUBLIC RELATIONS 

Governments — Federal, State, or local— have many problems that 
involve some relationship with minerals, in the solution of which the 
geologist may and often does play some important part. The Federal 
Government and some of the States, for example, Texas, own large 



GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE MANSFIELD 265 

tracts of public land, the administration or disposal of which involves 
a knowledge of the mineral resources that they contain. Many cities 
and towns own land from which stone may be quarried, or sand or 
gravel be removed. 

Geological Survey. — The Federal Government, the largest land- 
holder, early recognized the need of information regarding its public 
lands. Thus arose the succession of surveys, which finally led to the 
estabUshment in 1879 of the Geological Survey, whose director was 
charged with "the direction of the Geological Survey and the classifica- 
tion of the public lands and examination of the geological structure, 
mineral resources, and products of the national domain." Though 
many of its activities relate specifically to the public lands, the scope 
of the organization is broader, and it may do work for public purposes 
in any of the States, territories or insular possessions. 

Its work has greatly expanded since the early days. The names of 
its six branches indicate the general scope of its present activities: 

Geologic branch (includes wide variety of geologic studies and related chemical 
and physical work). 

Topographic branch (topographic mapping, base maps, etc.). 
Water resources branch (surface and ground water divisions) . 
Conservation branch (land classification, mineral leasing, power sites, etc.). 
Alaska branch (geology, topography and mineral resources). 
Administrative branch (includes library) . 

Besides geologists these branches employ many engineers, chemists, 
and physicists, a clerical staff and laborers. The continuous service 
of one or more legal advisers is also required. Nevertheless, the 
central purpose about which the entire organization revolves is the 
extension of geologic knowledge and the application of this knowledge 
to public problems involving the mineral wealth of the country, 
especially the public lands, and laws and regulations relating thereto. 

Other Governmental agencies. — Other Government agencies besides 
the Geological Survey have need for geologists and geologic advice. 
Some of them caU upon the Survey to do specific pieces of work or 
carry out special investigations. Thus the Survey has examined 
many tracts of land for the Forest Service in pursuance of legal 
obligations placed upon that organization to obtain such examinations 
prior to the purchase of additional lands for forest reserves. The 
Indian Service has requested mineral examinations of certain Indian 
lands prior to opening for settlement or disposal, and that organization 
and the Bureau of Reclamation have asked for dam site investigations. 
This last organization and some other bureaus originated in the 
Geological Survey. The Navy Department has asked for geologic 
aid in selection of sites for special structures and of tracts of land for 
petroleum reserves. The National Park Service has asked for geologic 
information for administrative purposes and to further the educational 



266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

and recreational use of the parks. The Tennessee Valley Authority 
has asked assistance in the valuation of mineral-bearing lands about 
to be flooded. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the 
Securities and Exchange Commission have called upon the Survey 
for advice in their respective fields as to applications for loans of 
pubUc funds and as to issuing permits to sell securities based on under- 
lying mineral properties. 

On the other hand, a number of Federal organizations, recognizing 
the need of geologic information and advice, have attached geologists 
to their staffs or have built up separate geologic staffs in order to 
obtain more direct control of such work for their special purposes. 
Among these are the Army Engineer Corps, the Reclamation Service, 
National Park Service, the Soil Conservation Service, and the Tennessee 
VaUey Authority, The increasing tendency of such organizations to 
seek geologic advice indicates a growing appreciation of the varied 
services geology may render. 

State geological surveys. — Before the Federal Government took 
cognizance of geology as an aid to the better understanding and 
solution of its problems affecting mineral lands and resources, some 
of the States had established geological surveys and published reports. 
The two Carolinas, North Carolina in 1823, and South Carolina in 
1824, were the first to take steps in this direction, followed by Massa- 
chusetts in 1830. From that time on more and more States have 
taken up geologic investigations. Most of the early surveys were 
discontinued, but many were revived, some of them several times. 
The New York Survey, however, has been broadly continuous in its 
activity and name since its inception in 1836. Now the only States 
that appear to make no specific provision for geologic work within 
their boundaries are Delaware and Massachusetts.^ The State sur- 
veys, though held within State lines and thus restricted in their fields 
of operation, have given an excellent account of themselves and have 
rendered most valuable service to their people and to the country as a 
whole, as well as to geological science. 

Services rendered by official surveys. — Besides the applications of 
geology in the fields of engineering, construction, and search for sup- 
plies of different minerals, which to a greater or less extent are regular 
duties of official surveys, its application in land classification, water- 
supply problems, sanitation, legal questions, and miscellaneous in- 
formation service deserves attention. 

Land classification was one of the duties imposed on the Geological 
Survey by its organic act, but little systematic geologic work was done 
in this connection until the rise of the conservation movement in the 
first decade of this century. Attention then was focused on such 

» Massachusetts, through its Department of Public Worlis, In 1938 has undertaken a comprehensive, 
detailed study of its geology and mineral resources, in cooperation with the Federal Geological Survey. 



GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE MANSFIELD 267 

mineral resources as coal, oil, natural gas, phosphate, and salines on 
public lands, and the interest of the Nation as a whole in their proper 
conservation and use was aroused. Congress passed legislation re- 
serving mineral rights to the Government, setting up reserves for 
special purposes, and providing for the lease and exploitation of 
public mineral lands. A necessary corollary was the acquirement 
of more precise information regarding such lands. The Geological 
Survey thus began and has since continued systematic surveys to 
show accurately the distribution of these minerals with respect to the 
established subdivisions of the public land and to measure and sample 
the deposits for purposes of computing reserves. The acreage with- 
drawn from or restored to entry and the estimates of reserves have 
been modified from time to time as new information has become 
available. They have formed the basis of national planning and 
legislation. Besides this, land classification data are extensively used 
by the General Land Office in administering public lands. 

Water supplies. — In the better-watered parts of the United States 
and other countries, questions of water supply have not, on the whole, 
seemed serious untU recent years. The situation is different in more 
arid regions where water is the crux of the question, whether a given 
area can be used agriculturally or industrially, or perhaps at all. 
With the rapid expansion of cities in the more thickly settled areas 
and the increased demands for water in some w^estern States, questions 
of water supply have assumed national importance. Investigations 
and measurements must be made both of the available surface water 
and of water in the ground. These are long-continuing projects 
because rainfall, which controls both the surface and the ground sup- 
ply, fluctuates so that investigations, covering only short periods, 
are likely to be deceptive and undependable. 

The problems of proper development and utilization of water involve 
the cooperation of the engineer, the geologist, and the chemist. The 
engineer is concerned with its production or accumulation, its trans- 
portation and handling as a commodity; the geologist with the 
character (thickness, porosity, etc.) and position of the water-bearing 
beds, their recharge from available rainfall and their possible con- 
tamination by salt water or other ud desirable substances. With the 
engineer, he is concerned with the character and stability of rocks 
affected by tunnels, aqueducts, dams, and other structures. The 
chemist determines the quahty of water as regards mineral and organic 
content. Mineral water, through clogging or staining, may be injuri- 
ous for industrial use. Mineral substances in solution may also affect 
health. For example, fluorine detected in the waters of some of the 
southwestern States has proved injurious to the enamel of human 
teeth. Organic matter is deleterious to health. 



268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Sanitation. — Closely related to the question of water supply is that 
of sanitation and the disposal of sewage and other wastes. If proper 
regard is not paid to geologic conditions, water suppUes otherwise 
suitable may become contaminated. In some hmestone regions where 
underground channels have been enlarged by solution, water may pass 
quickly from sources of contamination to places of use without being 
filtered or purified as they might be by passing through sequences of 
rocks of normal porosity. Thus the geologist's advice may be valuable 
to the sanitary engineer. 

Legal questions. — Matters in litigation not infrequently hinge on 
geologic data. The mining industry has been afflicted by litigation 
in connection with the so-called "apex" law. Many distinguished 
geologists have participated in these affairs. Frequently the available 
data have been so incomplete as to allow many differences of opinion 
among the experts. Boundary disputes between States or individuals, 
where the position of a stream is involved, have frequently hinged on 
geologic evidence, as in the case of the Texas-Oklahoma boundary 
along the Red River some years ago. 

Informational and miscellaneous services. — All the State geological 
surveys, as well as the Federal Geological Survey, are constantly called 
upon for a wide variety of information. Letters received at the 
Geological Survey from people in all walks of life run up into the 
thousands annually. Many mineral specimens are identified for the 
public. Work of this kind, including personal interviews, has to be 
considered a regular function of the geologist in public service. Some- 
times the relation of geology to the question raised may at first seem 
remote, but the answer may reveal an intimate connection. For 
example, a representative of the United States Fish Commission called 
at my office one day. He was trying to restock with fish some of the 
streams in West Virginia. Though he was generally successful, there 
was one area where the young fish, when released, kept dying and he 
was not able to obtain satisfactory results. By referring to the county 
geologic map, a product of the State survey, it was found that the 
streams that caused the trouble all rose in or crossed a belt of pyrite- 
bearing shales, and it seemed probable that the unfavorable effects 
on the young fish were produced by sulphuric acid released by the 
decomposition and leaching of the pyrite in these shales, and its con- 
tinual supply to the streams through springs or mine waters in minute 
quantities but sufficient to kill the fish. 

Another West Virginia problem was brought to my office by an 
engineer from a telephone company that was havmg trouble in main- 
taining its lines. The company, it appeared, had laid these out with 
regard only to directions of route and mileage. It had not considered 
the nature of the ground in which its poles must be set. As a conse- 
quence disturbance of poles, disarrangement of line, and breakage of 



GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE MANSFIELD 269 

wires were frequent occurrences because of land slips. Recourse to 
the State geologic map, another product of the State survey, with 
some further explanations, demonstrated to the engineer the usefulness 
of such a map in showing the position of the stable rocks that could be 
safely utilized and of the unstable formations that should be avoided. 

GEOLOGY IN DOMESTIC RELATIONS 

In the glaciated parts of the country, especially in New England, the 
land of many farms is stony. In the process of cultivation large num- 
bers of stones, ranging in size from a few inches to as much as a foot 
in diameter, have been patiently gathered by the farmer and assembled 
in piles here and there in the fields or built into stone walls. Such 
walls are a characteristic sight along many New England roads. Suc- 
cessive winter frosts gradually lift other stones in the upper soil within 
reach of the plow and thus provide the farmer with additional crops 
of boulders. 

Contrasting geologic conditions affecting the lives of whole com- 
munities have been called t© public attention in the last year or two 
by the so-called "dust bowl" in the western States and by flooded areas 
of the Ohio, Mississippi, and other rivers. In the dust bowl area cul- 
tivation, deficient rainfall and high winds combined to loosen soil and 
transport it in large quantities to other sites near or far. The farms 
from which the soil was taken were depleted or ruined, whereas those 
that received it were improved, if not choked by too much sand or 
other deleterious material. On the other hand, the flooded areas 
suffered from the effects of too much rain and from the consequent 
increase in the transporting power of the rivers. One man's loss was 
perhaps another's gain in the redistribution of soil that took place 
during the flood. 

An understanding of the effects of heavy rains and run-off on 
plowed ground is essential to a farmer if he is to conserve his fields and 
maintain the productivity of his farm. This is especially true if his 
fields slope more than a few degrees. The system of contour plowing 
now being introduced in many parts of the country, especially in the 
South, is doing much to prevent soil erosion and the waste of arable 
land. 

My efforts to make a garden in Washington during the World War 
were directly affected by the geology of my back yard. The upper 
few inches of soU were derived from gravels of the Columbia group of 
Pleistocene age and were very stony, the stones ranging from bird's 
egg to football size. They lay on an old deeply weathered and rotted 
schist of pre-Cambrian age, the contact being beautifully exposed in 
a cut bank in the alley behind my house. Every square foot of that 
garden had to be opened by pick and shovel methods. Many wheel- 



270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

barrow loads of pebbles were taken out and fresh dirt that had been 
dumped on the hillside behind wheeled in. The rotted schist seemed 
to have the consistency of lead. Only by persistent effort was the soil 
lightened and made ready for cultivation. 

The practice of insulating houses and oflSce buildings has given rise 
to a relatively new industry. Some of the more widely used insulating 
m-aterials are of mineral origin, and locating suitable suppUes of them 
requires geologic investigation. 

The question of keeping a cellar dry during a wet season, especially 
where frost and melting snow are involved, is dependent on recognition 
of the geologic conditions in the immediately underlying or surround- 
ing ground. A ledge protruding into the cellar, or a water-bearing 
layer in the surrounding ground, if not properly sealed off, may lead 
water into the house and flood the cellar. 

The location of cities, villages, individual dwellings, and farms 
without regard to existing geologic conditions, or perhaps in spite of 
them, has led to many disasters on both a small and large scale. This 
involves the whole question of disasters owing to earthquakes, floods, 
hurricanes, volcanoes, and other geologic agencies. Sometimes the 
advantages offered by such locations are great and the manifestations 
of adverse geologic conditions infrequent. Nevertheless, sooner or 
later they appear and those caught unprepared suffer. Special forms 
of insurance against disaster are available in some parts of Lhe country. 
If the cost of protective measures is great, most people prefer to take 
their chances, but if under these conditions care is taken to select favor- 
able groimd and attention is given to protective types of building con- 
struction, the danger of disaster in individual cases, at least, may be 
largely obviated. However, anyone who elects to live in such places, 
should realize that potentially disaster-producing agencies are part of 
his natural environment and if he fails to take these into account he 
does so at liis peril. 

GEOLOGY IN EDUCATION 

The field of education is broad, embracing all those facts, influences, 
and processes by which the student is made aware of the experience of 
the past and is prepared to go forward on his own initiative in the busi- 
ness of life and in extending the bounds of knowledge. Naturally 
many subjects enter into any well-rounded educational program. 
Some of them, notably geology, quicken observation, broaden under- 
standing, stimulate the love of beauty, and cultivate the mind. 

One of the greatest contributions of geology to education is the 
concept of the length of geologic time. This and the astronomical 
concept of distance in space are among the greatest contributions of 
science to human knowledge. They serve to put in perspective all 
happenings on the earth and throughout the universe. The later 



GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE — MANSFIELD 271 

methods of estimating geologic time, though permitting more exact 
statement of the lengths of individual periods or eras, emphasize the 
great age of the earth in contrast with the brevity of recorded history. 
Thus the age of the earth and the geologic record of the development 
of life upon it furnish a background for religion, philosophy, and 
social science. 

Geography, a subject included in practically every educational 
program, rests on geology. The progress of Ufe through the ages as 
shown by the geologic record has depended largely upon geologic 
conditions. Faunas have waxed and waned with the advance and 
retreat of seas over continents. Floras and vertebrates have re- 
sponded similarly to the movements of the great ice sheets. The 
present distribution of plants and animals shows many peculiarities 
owing to these agencies and to isolation of certain inhabited areas 
from other corresponding areas by submergence or other geologic 
causes. The fauna and flora of Australia are well-known examples. 
The natural conditions that have favored the location of manufac- 
turing or maritime cities, trade routes, and transportation lines are 
generally traceable to geologic causes. 

History plays a great part in education. Many historical events 
from earUest times have had a geologic background. Tribes and 
nations have developed their own customs and habits according to 
whether they lived in mountain glens or broad alluviated country ; on 
continents or islands. Great civilizations have arisen at the mouths 
or on the plains of great rivers. These favorable natural features 
are the products of geologic agencies operating on rocks of different 
kinds through long ages. 

According to trustworthy authorities, the great deluge of Biblical 
days, as well as the devastating flood of this century at Galveston, 
Tex., was the result of a chance combination of hurricane and tide 
in low coastal and estuarine areas, * Mountain passes, products of 
geological agencies, have helped or hindered movements of peoples 
or armies. The Germans took advantage of the lowlands in Belgium 
in beginning their first advance in the World War. Accounts of 
battles have shown that the geologic nature of the terrain is always an 
important factor in any victory or defeat. However, the great under- 
lying causes of wars are economic and depend in large measure upon 
the distribution of supplies of usable mineral raw materials whose 
origin and distribution are geologic problems. 

The observation and study of nature is a prime element in any 
modern educational program. Nature is so full of geology that one 
can hardly look in any direction without seeing something of geologic 
interest. Classes in nature study may have different objectives, but 

• The New England hurricane of September 1638 might be added here. 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

geologic materials and processes are always available and may either 
furnish the major interest or play some subordinate part. Geology 
lends itself readily to the inculcation of methods of scientific study. 
Either induction or deduction may be employed. The method of 
multiple working hypotheses outlined by Gilbert ^ many years ago is 
a noteworthy contribution to scientific education. 

Geologic literature, like that of other sciences, or literature in 
general, contains much that is commonplace. Nevertheless, in the 
hands of its masters it has risen to heights worthy of the emulation 
of any student of English as well as of the sciences. Some years ago 
I came upon such a passage written by Sir Archibald Geilde.^ It has 
lingered in my memory ever since. Discussing stratified rocks of 
pre-Cambrian age, he writes: 

Few parts of the stratified crust of the earth present greater interest than these 
earliest reniaining sediments. As the geologist lingers among them, fascinated 
by their antiquity and by the stubbornness with which they have shrouded their 
secrets from his anxious scrutiny, he can sometimes scarcely believe that they 
belong to so remote a part of the earth's history as they can be assuredly proved 
to do. 

The shores of the British Isles have suffered severely from marine 
erosion, fine examples of which may be seen at many places along their 
coasts. The islands are small enough to enable almost any one who 
so desires to view the activities of the ocean and the effects that winds, 
waves, currents, and tides have produced. It is therefore not strange 
that poetic and artistic genius should be stirred by scenes li]i;e these. 
Such may have been the background of Tennyson's poem, Crossing 
the Bar, which has brought peace and comfort to vast numbers of 
people. 

Mendelssohn's celebrated overture to Fingal's Cave, still heard in 
symphony concerts, was composed after his visit to the Island of 
Staffa off the Scottish coast in 1829. Thus literature and art have 
been enriched by interested observation of geologic processes and 
products. 

Sometimes art, as well as business, may be promoted by proximity 
of needed materials. Professor Shaler used to say that the reason 
Greek sculpture advanced to such heights of excellence was the fact 
that in the marbles of Attica the Greeks possessed an unrivaled medium 
for the expression of their art. 

In the ordinary prosecution of his work the geologist brings to light 
facts, principles, and ideas of great educational value. His reports, 
papers, and discussions serve as the basis for textbook compilations, 
classroom studies, and field excursions. As a branch of scientific 
knowledge the cultural value of geology can hardly be overestimated. 

« Gilbert, Q. K., Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 3, No. 31, pp. 284-299, 1886. 

« Geikie. A., Text book of geology, 4th ed., vol. 2, p. 876, New York, 1903. 



GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE MANSFIELD 273 

The literary value of its better products is high, its logic and broad 
philosophies stimulate the mind, and its factual content has world- 
wide interest. 

SUMMARY 

Geology, through its bearing on supplies of mineral raw materials, 
necessary adjuncts to our civilization, enters into many relations of 
local and national importance. The information it supplies is basic 
to many great industries. It enters also into more intimate human 
affairs. Truly it may be said that the relation of human life to geology 
is as close as that of a fish to water. The earth on which we walk, the 
air we breathe, the water we drink, the daily events of our lives and 
even our higher endeavors and aspirations, are ordered or affected by 
geologic phenomena and principles. Though mystery, in the sense 
of things we can not explain, enters into geology as it does into life 
itself, its commoner aspects are so clear, so instructive and so enticing 
if once sensed, that they can hardly fail to appeal to the imagination 
and interest of any active mind. 



THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN 



By P. G. H. BoswELL, D. Sc, F. R. S. 
Professor of Geology in the University of London, Imperial College of Science and 

Technology 



Although Kipling's village of Huckley, led by 'Dal Benzaguen 
herself, may have voted that the Earth is Flat, it is undoubtedly a 
fact that general opinion, outside perhaps Zion City, 111., holds to 
the view that it is a globe. But undue satisfaction in regard to our 
knowledge of this globe is hardly warranted when we remember that 
three-fifths of its surface is almost unlaiown to us. For this large 
proportion of the earth's crust (the lithosphere) is covered by the 
oceanic envelope called the hydrosphere. The margins of the seas 
have fluctuated since the earliest geological times and they fluctuate 
to-day; as the sonneteer observed: 

When I have seen the hungry ocean gain 

Advantage on the kingdom of the shore, 
And the firm soil win of the watery main 

Increasing store with loss, and loss with store, * * * 

And notwithstanding its imperfections, the geological record has been 
fairly plainly written by these marginal fluctuations, but what lies 
beneath the depth of the ocean, being invisible and only slightly 
accessible, is still but little known. Yet when we are asked what 
contribution the progress of science is making to deep-sea lore, we 
can answer that during recent years significant advances have been 
made in our knowledge both of the form of the ocean floor and the 
deposits that cover it. 

It is not the purpose of the present essay to consider the origin or 
the age of the great oceanic basins — whether they are primitive and 
original planetary features, or whether they have arisen by differen- 
tial subsidence of parts of the earth crust or are "gapes" left by the 
drifting apart of the continents. These questions have been dis- 
cussed almost ad nauseam during the past two decades: suffice it to 
say that the consensus of geological opinion does not favor the Wege- 
ner hypothesis of continental drift, although admitting the possi- 
bility that such drift may occur in certain parts of the crust on a 

' Reprinted by permission from Science Progress, vol. 32, No. 125, July 1937. 

275 

114728—39 19 



276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

relatively small scale. This matter concerns us here only insofar as 
the form and covering of the ocean floors may throw light on the 
controversy. 

The variation in depth of the oceans over the surface of the globe 
is familiar to all. In their main outline, the bathymetrical contours 
have long since been plotted, and the work of recent deep-sea ex- 
ploration has only necessitated modification in detail of such contours. 
The broad distribution of deep-sea deposits — the organic oozes and 
red clay — in relation to depth is also a matter of general knowledge. 
The character of these deposits and the areas and depths of the floors 
where they occur was first made known from the classical investiga- 
tions of the Challenger expedition in 1880, although earlier expeditions 
had foreshadowed some of the results. Suice then numerous scientific 
explorations have been made, and have duly been referred to in text- 
books of oceanography. 

With certain exceptions, the types of deposits found on the ocean 
floor are related to the depth, the distribution of the various types 
corresponding with different submarine levels. A clear picture of the 
respective areas in relation to the heights or depths is furnished by 
what is known as the hypsographical curve of the earth's surface. 
From this diagram, in which areas are plotted as abscissae and heights 
as ordinates, it becomes evident that two levels are most widespread. 
The first is a land level consisting of the greater part of the conti- 
nents (all but about 9 percent, which constitute the "mountainous" 
areas) together with a continental shelf that is submerged beneath 
the sea to an eventual depth of about 100 fathoms (nearly 200 
meters) at its margin. The second is the deep-sea level, which in- 
cludes most of the ocean floor; this, if regarded as lying between 
1,400 and 2,800 fathoms (2}^ and 5 kilometers) in depth, occupies 
about two-fifths of the earth's surface. The ill-defined stage con- 
necting these levels, that is, the continental slope, is of small extent, 
possibly 8 percent of the earth's surface, and the deeps or sinks in 
the ocean floor lying below 3,000 fathoms in depth (5K kilometers) 
constitute only about 4 percent of the surface, although this propor- 
tion may prove to be slightly greater when more records of depths 
are obtained. The deep-sea area, including the deeps, thus com- 
prises some 115 million square miles (295 square kilometers), or more 
than half the earth's surface ; the character of its surface and covering 
would therefore appear to merit greater attention than they have 
hitherto been given, especially when we recall the vast literature 
concerned with the geology of the continental areas of the globe. 

Successive expeditions have added considerably to the number 
of sounding stations originally established by the Challenger, and 
we now realize that the ocean floor has topographical irregularities 



THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN BOS WELL 277 

no less impressive than those of the continents. Moreover, the 
employment during recent years of echo-sounding methods, so 
economical of time and labor, has revealed interesting features 
such as submarine canyons, deep hollows, and scarplike elevations. 
Now that some hundred canyons have been located. Prof. R. A. Daly 
has recently done good service by assembling the evidence relating to 
them. He notes that several occur along the continental shelf between 
the latitudes of Cape Cod and Cape Hatteras, including the classic 
"Hudson River Canyon" off New York City. Thirty examples have 
been found along Georges Bank off the New England coast and an 
even greater number between the northern end of Vancouver Island 
and southern California. Others have been determined off the 
Hawaiian Islands, in the northern and western parts of the Gulf of 
Mexico, off the western coast of Mexico, the Bahama Bank, the coasts 
of BrazU and Ecuador, the eastern coast of Korea, both eastern and 
western coasts of Japan, eastern and southern coasts of Formosa, off 
the mouths of the Ganges and Indus, and the coast of Ceylon. Around 
the African continent they have been proved to occur south of Zanzi- 
bar, off the south coast, opposite the mouths of the Congo, Ogowe, 
and Niger, and off the Gold Coast and Cape Verde. In Europe, they 
have been located in the region beyond the coasts of Portugal, France, 
and the British Isles. Thus their distribution is world-wide. Many 
extend as cuts through the continental shelf and reach a depth of at 
least 1,000 fathoms. Although some have no direct topographical 
connection with great rivers (for example, those closely spaced on 
Georges Bank), most are on the axial lines of such, notwithstanding 
the fact that delta-building is in progress. In relation to the conti- 
nental shelf, they usually run straight down in the direction of slope — 
as though formed by rivers "consequent" on the shelf, their longi- 
tudinal gradients being from 1 in 100 to 1 in 10. Some are shallow, 
that is, not deeper than 50 fathoms (100 m) and confined to the area 
of the shelf, but many show depths reaching from 500 to 1,600 fathoms. 
Their walls are steep, the gradient being apparently from 1 in 3 to 
1 in 1, and from the walls of those off California masses of fossiliferous 
Upper Cretaceous and late Tertiary clays have been dredged. 

The mode of origin of these canyons has long been a problem — 
indeed, ever since the time when Buchanan attributed the classic 
example found off the mouth of the Congo to submarine river erosion. 
Some examples have probably arisen in this way, but it seems unlikely 
that submarine rivers can cut to great depths in relatively deep and 
quiet oceanic waters, even if we grant Daly's postulate, that such 
streams, being laden with mud, have increased erosive powers. Other 
canyons are probably tectonic; that is, are due to down-folding or 



278 AKlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

faulting of the earth's crust under the sea. But the problem in 
general remains. 

Ridges, scarps, or deeps on the sea floor have been recorded from 
time to time, but latterly more precise information has been furnished 
by the work of the Dutch Snellius expedition and our own John Murray 
expedition in the Red Sea, Arabian Sea, and Indian Ocean. As the 
investigators on the Snellius expedition emphasized, the possibility of 
a submarine fault assuming gigantic proportions is not in accord with 
Wegener's theory of a plastic substratum which is necessary for the 
drift of continental masses. Thanks to Dr. Vening Meinesz's investi- 
gations of the value of gravity at sea, made by pendulum observations 
in submerged submarines, it has become possible to relate the deeps, 
which are usually long and narrow depressions of the sea floor, to long 
and narrow belts of strong negative anomahes of gravity. Thus there 
is more than a suggestion that such deeps are of tectonic origin, and 
consequently due to down-folding or fracturing of the crust. As has 
long been realized, the best-known deeps, such as those south of the 
Java-Timor arc and northeast of the Antillean arc, are situated in 
the neighborhood of land-masses where earth-building movements 
have recently been active. The same is probably true of the Nero 
Trough of the Marianas, the Atacama Deep and the South Sandwich 
Islands Deep. 

We pass to the consideration of the deposits at present being 
laid dowTi on this submarine surface of varied rehef. We have as 
yet no evidence of any relationship between the canyons and deeps 
and the type of sediment deposited, but apart from these, it is gen- 
erally true to say that the deep-sea sediments vary in character 
according to the depths of water in which they have accumulated. 
Several expeditions, notably the Meteor, the Carnegie, and the Discovery 
II, have recently provided additional information about such deposits, 
but it is a tribute to the work of the Challenger expedition that the 
classification introduced half a century ago still stands. The various 
expeditions of the research ship Discovery II, begun in 1925, are still 
in progress. Organized by the colonial office with the view of acquir- 
ing knowledge of the important economic problem of the feeding and 
breeding of whales in the South Seas, the personnel of the expeditions 
lost no opportunity of making scientific observations relating to the 
depth, salinity, and temperature of ocean waters, to marine life of aU 
kinds, and to the character of sea-bottom deposits. Valuable results 
are gradually being published in a series of volumes, but inasmuch as 
many of the specimens must be examined by busy specialists, much 
information is still awaited, including the detailed descriptions of 
the floor deposits. But aheady results of surprising interest have 
been announced. The classification of the deep-sea deposits intro- 



rerrigenous deposits (contain- 
ing detrital material) 



THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN — BOSWELL. 279 

duced by Sir John Murray, of the Challenger expedition, requires 
modification only in detail: it may now be summarized thus: 

Shallow-water deposits (be- 1 „ , 

tween L. W. and 100 f.) U?°5^ 
l^Muds 

/ Glauconitic mud 

I Diatomaceous muu; 

Deep-sea deposits (belowl Diatomaceous ooze"! 

100 f.) I Globigerina ooze I „ , • j 

T, ,. , . > Pelagic deposits 

Radiolanan ooze [ 

^Red clay J 

Except for the red clay, the pelagic deposits are almost entirely 
organic, and they fall into two groups cousisting respectively of 
predominant calcium carbonate or amorphous silica. The cal- 
careous materials include immense quantities of coccolithophores, 
which are calcareous algae, the well-known coccoliths being the 
separated plates of the skeletons; foraminifera, chiefly Globigerina 
and allied forms; and pteropods. The work of the German Meteor 
expedition demonstrated that in the Atlantic the coccohthophores 
are of wide distribution in the ocean, but the Globigerinae lived 
almost exclusively in temperate or warm water. The solubility of 
the skeletons of these organisms, which are composed of calcium 
carbonate, increases with pressure and fall of temperature, that is, 
with increased depth of water. The siliceous organisms consist 
of four groups: diatoms, silico-flagellates, radiolaria, and siliceous 
sponges. The diatom frustules are exceedingly small and enter 
into deep-sea deposits only where other remains, such as calcareous 
skeletons, are dissolved away, and where mineral material derived 
from erosion of the land is shght — as for example in Arctic and 
Antarctic regions. The occurrence of radiolaria in sea-water is 
similar to that of other plankton, but the main distribution of radio- 
larian ooze in the Pacific and Indian Oceans lies in the deeper regions, 
where the depth and low temperature have assisted in the solution of 
calcareous remains as they settle down. Recently Dr. E. Neaverson 
has noted the presence of radiolarian ooze among the samples collected 
by Discovery II, from the South Atlantic, a first record. Of these 
deposits, the globigerina ooze and the diatomaceous ooze together 
occupy a large proportion of the ocean floor, the former 50 million 
square miles, extending down to a depth of 2,500 fathoms, and the 
latter 11 million square miles, principally at a less depth and in the 
colder regions. But there remains a third deposit of even greater 
extent (52 million square miles) — the red clay, which is confined to 
the deepest regions, like the radiolarian ooze. It is found mainly in 
the Atlantic Ocean, though why it should occur there, and the other 
very deep-water deposit chiefly in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, is at 



280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

present not clear. The red clay is entirely mineral in character, 
consisting of particles of 2 microns (.002 mm) diameter, together with 
finer clay material. It has been regarded as in part the insoluble resi- 
due of the skeletons of organisms, left after solution of calcium car- 
bonate, silica, and other constituents by subsidence through the 
great depths. But its mineral constitution does not lend support 
to this view, nor is it borne out by the characters of the insoluble 
residues shown by chemical analyses of skeletons of marine animals. 
More probably it results from the slow accumulation of fine volcanic 
dust, which is blown over the ocean for great distances, and from 
the decomposition of volcanic products such as ash, pumice, and 
basalt, which have fallen into ocean waters. In addition, however, 
to minerals such as felspar and augite (and in the clayey portion 
montmorillonite) which could be derived in this way, there are many 
tiny grains of quartz, a mineral unlikely to occur except rarely in 
products of oceanic volcanoes. The presence of these makes it 
seem likely that wind-blown material other than volcanic dust must 
reach the depths. Indeed, Stefansson observed that off-shore winds 
carried sand and even gravel far out on to off-shore ice, and others 
have recorded dust-falls derived from the Saharan region, at a distance 
of 1,700 miles west of the African coast. In the great 1912 eruption 
of Katmai in Alaska, a thickness of 6 mm of volcanic dust was de- 
posited at 220 miles distance; also, the effects of dust from Krakatoa 
carried three times round the earth in 1883 are still remembered. 
Further, it has been observed that in samples from both the Narrow 
Seas and the South Atlantic relatively coarse grains of quartz are 
buoyed up by filamentous masses of flocculent protoplasmic or other 
organic material and can travel thus for long distances in the sea. 

Little work has been done on the constitution of the clayey fractions 
of pelagic deposits, but preliminary X-ray investigations by Prof. 
C. W. Correns of Rostock showed that a sample of red clay collected 
by the Meteor is composed of kaolinite, calcite, and muscovite mica. 
There is here an extensive field for investigation. 

When we recall how these pelagic deposits have arisen, we realize 
that the rate of accumulation must be extremely slow. Schott 
has estimated that in 1,000 years a thickness of 17.8 mm of blue 
mud, 12 mm of globigerina ooze, and less than 8.6 mm of red clay 
would be laid down. No surprise need be felt, therefore, at the 
oft-quoted statement that teeth of sharks dredged from the ocean 
floor, of species now extinct, have been found to be covered with 
only a film of deposit. On the other hand, there is the surpris- 
ing record of some inch or two of globigerina ooze found cover- 
ing the Atlantic cable when it was brought to the surface for repair. 
An inch of deposit in less than a century is almost incredible; and 



THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN BOSWELL 281 

we are obliged to consider the possibility of the cable having sunk 
in the ooze. 

For many years before the Challenger expedition the pioneer 
methods of bottom-sampling by means of lead sinkers were fol- 
lowed, but subsequent improvements in technique led to the recovery 
of samples in valved tubes, that is, small borehole samples were 
obtained. Even then, only the surface layer of the sea bottom 
was penetrated. Efforts have therefore been directed to obtaining 
longer and still longer cores from the ocean floor; the Meteor obtained 
cores 1 meter in length, and the Snellius afterward brought up 
cores of a length of 2 meters or more. The possibility of obtaining a 
stratigraphical succession of floor deposits is fascinating to geologists, 
because clues to changing conditions of fauna, climate, and depth 
during geological ages may thus be yielded. 

One of our own most versatile investigators, the late Prof. John 
Joly, of Dublin, devised a form of deep-sea apparatus for obtaining 
core-samples. More recently, Dr. C. S. Piggot, recognizing the 
necessity of improving on the results obtained by the ill-fated American 
research ship Carnegie, has devised a new type of apparatus, by which 
the contact of the sampler with the sea floor actuates the trigger of a 
firing mechanism and so forces the tube down farther than the few feet 
to which it would be driven by the momentum of the falling weight. 
Experimental work indicates that cores from 4 feet to 8 feet 8 inches in 
length can be obtained from depths varying from 200 to 1,250 fathoms. 

Already, however, the older method of coring has shown the 
presence of different deep-sea deposits in superposition; of globi- 
gerina ooze resting on blue mud, and of red clay overlying globigerina 
ooze, as noted by Correns in his accounts of the Meteor samples. 
Now W. Schott's statistical studies of the fauna of South Atlantic 
waters indicate that at a depth of about 25 cm in the ooze, warm- 
water foraminifera such as Globorotalia menardii cease to occur, 
while Globigerina bulloides and G. inflata which favor cooler but 
still temperate waters increase in quantity. This kind of fauna! 
variation, already conjectured by Philippi, the geologist to the 
Gauss expedition, suggests that the deep-sea deposits can furnish 
evidence of a climatic change. That the variation is not due to 
the drifting currents is shown by the similarity of the present dis- 
tribution in the Middle and South Atlantic of G. bulloides in oceanic 
waters and in the superficial floor deposits. It is possible that the 
underlying deposits from which Globorotalia menardii is absent were 
laid down during a recent cold period — perhaps the last phase of the 
Ice Age. Further, if we assume that the area occupied by the limeless 
red clay is extensive because cold deep waters are strongly solvent on 
calcareous skeletons, the fact that red clay overlies a globigerina 
ooze, which in turn overlies beds with warm-water forms, suggests 



282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

that a warm period preceded the cold one. At the moment such 
conclusions may be speculative, but they point the way to promising 
investigations. 

Many years ago it was deemed probable that the deep-water sedi- 
ments were more highly radioactive than terrigenous deposits, 
although there was some doubt regarding the early determinations of 
radium contents by Joly and by Pettersson in the samples they 
examined, collected by the Challenger, Albatross, and Princess Alice II. 
More modern methods adopted by C. S. Piggot in the analysis of 
samples of globigerina ooze, red clay, and blue mud collected by the 
Carnegie have shown that the earlier conclusions were well founded. 
Only 28 sediments, obtained from stations scattered throughout the 
Atlantic Ocean, were tested by Piggot — a small enough number to 
represent such a vast area. With a few exceptions the specimens 
proved to have an extraordinarily high concentration of radium as 
compared with that of continental rocks, such as ancient sediments 
and granite, and even more so as compared with basalt. The general 
average of Piggot's analyses shows 6.52 g.XlO"^^ radium per gram of 
sediment; for comparison, an average for granite might be assessed 
at 2.5X10"^^ and for basalt at 0.8X10"^^, although many granites 
give a figure more lil^e that of basalt. Exceptionally high contents 
noted by Piggot in sediments from the deepest parts of the oceans, 
such as red clay, reached 21.40X10-^2 ^nd 16.72X10-^2 

What is the source of this radium and what is the geophysical 
significance of the relatively high content of the coating of the ocean 
floor? To elucidate the first problem, Piggot turned to minerals 
believed to be in process of formation in the depths, and chose some 
of the manganese nodules which reveal growth banding with trapped 
clay layers between the coats of manganese oxide. Uranium was 
found to be fairly evenly distributed throughout a nodule, and the 
radium-content was high, although it varied in the different constitu- 
ents of the nodules. The problem is therefore concerned rather with 
the parent uranium than with radium itself, and it has been suggested 
that the concentration is brought about by the numerous minute living 
organisms in the sea which extract, more or less selectively, the salts 
of uranium and radium from the sea-water, and incorporate them in 
their skeletons. When they die their remains take the radioactive 
material to the bottom with them. Piggot disagrees with this view, 
and also with that of Pettersson, who ascribed the high concentration 
to submarine vulcanism. The uranium in sea water must come 
ultimately from igneous rocks which are broken down on land. It is, 
of course, in solution in sea water, and if we are to judge by the radium 
content, it is in much the same proportions there as in ordinary rocks. 
Near the shore the radium content of the sediments only approximates 
to that of the ordinary rocks of the continent ; thus the enrichment in 



THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN BOSWELL 283 

depth cannot be explained by detrital accumulation. Moreover, as 
stated above, red clays (which are the richest of the deposits) are 
believed to accumulate exceedingly slowly from decomposition of 
volcanic material, diluted perhaps by residues from skeletons of organ- 
isms and rare wind-borne detritus. Piggot suggests that although 
some uranium may be brought down by the settling of skeletal remains 
and volcanic dust, the greater proportion comes out as a result of 
oxidation at depth, for the oxygen concentration in sea water increases, 
according to the Carnegie's records, with depth below 1,000 fathoms. 
On the other hand, in shallow water or near to continents sufficient 
organic matter is present to maintain the reducing conditions, which 
tend to keep the uranium in solution. The environment at the 
bottom of the ocean being of an oxidizing rather than reducing nature, 
organic material disappears, and the water must be almost at satura- 
tion with respect to oxides of uranium. Thus there is a tendency for 
them to separate out like the oxides of iron and manganese. 

The data obtained by the Carnegie regarding this increase in oxy- 
gen concentration throws light on various other phenomena and 
even on the color and composition of the deepest deposit — red clay 
itself, but they raise a difficulty when we try to explam the fresh and 
unoxidized condition of many of the minerals in deep-sea deposits. 
A considerable number of these minerals, as well as the fragments 
of volcanic glass associated with them, are of a type that is far from 
resistant to the effects of weathering, such as oxidation and hydra- 
tion, on land. Reference is made below to the volcanic origin of 
most of such minerals. Well-known examples lilce ohvine, augite, 
hypersthene, and biotite mica, are found in deep-sea sediments in a 
fresh unaltered state, often with crystal faces still sharply defined. 
Submarine "weathering," to use a contradictory term, cannot there- 
fore proceed on the same fines as the corresponding process on the 
continents. If the conditions in deep waters are oxidizing, we may 
ask what it is that inhibits the process analogous to weathering (the 
"halmyrolysis" of some authors). We can only suggest possible 
explanations of this "stabilized" condition of aftairs; for example, 
that (a) the waters are charged to saturation with carbon dioxide, 
(6) they are kept at an approximately low and relatively constant 
temperature, (c) the pressure is great, often exceeding 500 atmos- 
pheres, or even {d) light is absent. 

From the foregoing, it will have become evident that there are 
three possible sources for the mineral material of deep-sea sediments 
deposited beyond the reach of river-borne detritus, namely, (a) the 
products of volcanic eruptions, either submarine or wind-borne from 
terrestrial outbursts, (6) nonvolcanic dust carried by wind from dis- 
tant lands, and (c) detritus dropped from melting icebergs at extreme 



284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

distances from their source. A little further consideration may now 
be given to the effect of volcanic action. 

Our attempts to penetrate the superficial layer of the ocean floor 
are necessarily very limited, and the likelihood of establishing the 
nature of the foundation rock of the crust is remote. But indirect 
evidence is afforded by the submarine volcanoes which are numerous 
and widespread in the oceanic areas. Many are of immense size and 
some rise, like Mauna Loa in the Hawaiian Islands, from the ocean 
depths to heights of 13,600 feet above sea level. Indeed, most of the 
islands which he far from continental shores are composed exclusively of 
rocks which have cooled from the molten state, and mostly of rocks of 
volcanic origin as distinct from deep-seated origin, i. e., those that have 
solidified in the depths of the earth's crust. The rock basalt, famihar 
to all in the Giant's Causeway and the Hebrides, is of commonest 
occurrence in oceanic islands, and the broad similarity of the chemical 
composition of specimens from widely separated island locahties 
points to derivation from a common subcrustal region or shell. In 
some islands there is a sorting-out of mineral (i. e., chemical) con- 
stituents, known as differentiation, which leads to the formation by 
crystallization of various rock-types, but these are rarities from the 
standpoint of total bulk. 

It is common knowledge that when lavas are emitted from vol- 
canoes on dry land, they not infrequently (like Vesuvius, for example) 
float up fragments of the "country-rock" more or less baked and some- 
times in part assimilated at their margins. The "intrusive" representa- 
tives of the lava, that is, the feeders which become consolidated before 
they reach the surface, contain many more such "xenoliths." In a 
country where the crustal rocks are concealed by the volcanic pile, 
useful information is thus afforded of the natm-e of the superficial 
crust. But in oceanic areas such xenoHths of continental rocks are 
very scarce or not found in the lavas, the records that exist being 
nonproven. Hence has arisen the view that the foundation of the 
ocean is the same as that below the continental masses (or sial), 
namely, the subcrustal layer of approximately basaltic composition 
known as the sima. Support for this deduction is afforded by the rate 
of propagation of earthquake waves. 

Volcanoes on land, or below the sea in maritime areas, are frequently 
of explosive type, the rocks being blown to fragments, even to dust, 
and the products distributed over a relatively wide area. The 
fragmental materials there consist of broken-up crystalline or glassy 
lava or disintegrated continental rocks. In the case of submarine 
volcanoes it is reasonable to suppose that if explosive action occurs 
(although it may be damped down by the great load of the ocean), 
the products would be distributed throughout the deep-sea sediments 
at present being laid do^vn. Now, examination of large numbers of 



THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN BOSWELL 285 

these deposits from all over the ocean floor brings out the fact that 
(if we except certain occurrences not very far from land, or wind- 
borne, as mentioned previously) the detrital minerals are those con- 
fined to igneous rocks and frequently to lavas. Minerals which could 
have been derived only from ancient sedimentary and metamorphic 
rocks, like those which make up the continents, are strikingly rare. 

In the reports of the Challenger expedition some 40 or more minerals 
were recorded from deep-sea deposits. All could have been derived 
from volcanic or intrusive rocks, or by growth in place: not one species 
is peculiar to continental rocks. The general impression given by the 
assemblage of minerals is intensified by the oft-recorded presence of 
volcanic glass, tuff, palagonite and pumice. It would be inappropriate 
to a general review such as this to cite long lists of minerals or to 
describe their characters. It is probably of more interest to pass on 
to a brief consideration of some of the newly-constituted minerals 
now being formed on the sea floor. 

The problem of the mode of formation of such authigenic minerals 
in sediments has long fascinated geologists. The term authigenic 
denotes those minerals which have been formed in place, either 
contemporaneously with the sediment or at a later date, as distinct 
from the detrital minerals derived from the breaking-up of preexisting 
rocks. The Challenger expedition discovered several authigenic 
minerals in deep-sea deposits, among them being glauconite, calcium 
phosphate, phillipsite, and other zeolites, and manganese oxide (in 
manganese nodules). Among similar minerals, beUeved in some cases 
to be of authigenic origin in ancient sedimentary rocks, are soda- 
felspar (albite), potash-felspar (orthoclase and microcline), chlorite, 
epidote, pseudo-siUimanite, sphene, tourmaline, and others, many 
being somewhat complex silicates. We still hope that a more inten- 
sive study of deep-sea sediments may throw light on their mode of 
origin and perhaps even reveal them in actual process of formation. 
Recently, two interesting and unexpected authigenic minerals new to 
science have been discovered by Messrs. F. A. Bannister and M. Hey, 
in samples collected by the Scotia from the Weddell Sea. From a 
careful study of the chemical composition, optical properties and 
X-ray spectrograms of some minute crystals found in the samples, 
these investigators have described "envelope" crystals of a calcium 
oxalate dihydrate from a depth of 2,400-2,700 fathoms. Somewhat 
similar crystals have been found in cells of plants, in the gall of mam- 
mals and fish, and in renal calculi. The chemical composition of these 
deep-sea crystals suggests an origin in which organic processes played 
a part. They appear to have been formed in muds on the sea-bottom, 
here in an area of increased salinity, corresponding to a slight under- 
saturation of calcium carbonate. A second group of crystals, similarly 
investigated, proved to have the composition of hydrated calcium 



286 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

citrate. The mineral has been named "Earlandite" in honor of the 
distinguished worker on foraminifera, who found them among the 
organic remains in samples he was examining. As calcium citrate 
has been found in plants, the presence of impurities such as Sr, Ba, 
Mg, Mn, Fe, and Cu in the crystals may be significant They came 
from a depth of 1,410 fathoms and are of very restricted distribution; 
their origin is conjectural. Bannister and Hey also found crystals of 
gypsum (CaS04.2H20) in samples collected by the Discovery in the 
Weddell Sea in 1925, from a depth of 2,800 fathoms. These gypsum 
crystals are of lenticular form up to 2 mm in length. Although they 
have not previously been found in oceanic deposits, they have been 
known for many years to be authigenic constituents of the muds of 
the Mersey Estuary. Their formation in the Weddell Sea, like that 
of the two new minerals mentioned, points to peculiar conditions, 
perhaps of deep-sea lagoonal character. 

In review, we see in the history of the earth the operation of 
repetitions of the geological cycle of rock-erosion (earth-sculpture), 
transport and deposition of sediment, and earth movement leading 
to uplift. The interaction of the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and 
lithosphere, assisted by the thermal energy of the sun and the 
gravitational influence of the moon, results in the disintegrating 
work of frost, rain, wind, changes of temperature, and the waves. 
The geologists' music of the spheres, though not without harmony, 
resolves itself into two clear refrains — of degradation on the surface 
of the exposed earth crust, and synthesis on the sea floor. But the 
process of reconstruction is effected with impoverished materials, for 
the decomposition of rocks and minerals proceeds both mechanically 
and chemically, and the soluble products pass out of the geological 
cycle to a considerable extent by accumulating in ocean waters. All 
the known chemical elements are doubtless present in solution in the 
sea, but whilst calcium, silicon, iron, phosphorus, copper, and others 
are extracted to a greater or less extent by organisms, elements such 
as sodium, chlorine, and nitrogen accumulate. Against this increasing 
salinity of the sea, we must set off the formation of authigenic min- 
erals on the sea floor, but we have no reason for thinking that this 
process bulks largely. A certain amount of compensation for the 
loss of soluble materials from the geological cycle is afforded by the 
delivery from subcrustal reservoirs of new rock material by volcanic 
action, but we have no means of assessing its effect in restoring the 
balance. 

Prediction is dangerous, but we may go so far as to ask ourselves 
whether the pointers in geology are suggestive of an irreversible 
trend to an uninteresting uniformity. On the earth's crust, the 
breaking-down of minerals and rocks, many of which are complex 
silicates, results in the liberation of the elements which form more 



THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN BOSWELL 287 

soluble compounds, the alkalies, calcium, magnesium, and so forth. 
The insoluble residues are ultimately of clayey character, such as 
hydrated silicates of aluminium and oxides of aluminium and iron. 
Hitherto, we have distinguished between mechanical disintegration 
and chemical decomposition as processes of degradation, but recent 
investigations by Prof. A. Brammall of the Imperial College of 
Science and Technology, as beautiful in their simplicity as they are 
significant in their wide repercussions, have aboUshed that distinction. 
For Professor Branamall has extended the work of Tamm and Stevens 
by demonstrating that fine grinding of most common rock-forming 
minerals brings them into a condition when they are hydroscopic and 
become partially dissociated in water, so that the elements of the 
alkalies and alkaline earths are liberated. 

Ultimately, then, the finer suspended material which reaches the 
deeper parts of the sea consists almost exclusively of simple hydrated 
sUicates of aluminium in a fine state of division, that is, clay. In 
addition to this detrital accumulation there are the deposits of cal- 
careous and siliceous materials formed by organisms. It would seem 
that there is thus an almost complete differentiation into a solution 
(sea water) rich in its diverse dissolved elements, and "duU" floor 
deposits of very restricted composition. Such must be the tendency 
unless synthetic processes are proceeding in the depths to form new 
minerals. J. L. Thiebaut claimed to have proved in 1925 that 
marine clays were usually composed of complex silicates of aluminium, 
iron, potash, calcium, and magnesium, in contradistinction to fresh- 
water clays wliich are largely silicates of aluminium with a little iron 
and magnesium. We may ask then — or formulate the question as a 
problem for investigation — whether the elements in sea water are 
being restored to the accumulating simple clays in the depths of the 
sea, a region termed by Correns "Nature's laboratory," although 
perhaps to speak of "factory" would be more appropriate. But in 
the meantime even our small knowledge of the processes at work 
convinces us, with Shakespeare, that "clay and clay differ in dignity." 



ICE AGES 



By Sir George Simpson, K. C. B., F. R. S. 



[With one plate] 



It is now common knowledge that there have been great changes in 
cHmate during past ages. The geological evidence is perfectly clear 
that luxuriant vegetation once grew in Greenland and Spitsbergen, 
where now the hardiest forms of vegetable life can barely exist on the 
small areas free from permanent ice. At the other extreme, there is 
no doubt whatever that at one period a great ice sheet covered the 
plains of Central India and discharged icebergs into a sea covering 
what is now the Punjab and North- West India — one of the hottest 
parts of the earth. 

From the geological record it would appear that the climatic changes 
of the past were in all directions, some warmer and some colder, some 
wetter and some drier than at present ; and some individual localities 
appear to have experienced all possible climates at one time or another. 

It is the problem of meteorologists to study the extent and sequence 
of the climatic variations in all parts of the world and to seek the cause 
and mechanism of the changes. Very little progress has been made 
in that direction up to the present for two main reasons. In the first 
place, the geological evidence is very fragmentary and often doubtful; 
and secondly, we know very little of what causes climatic variations 
and how they are controlled. 

The geological evidence of change of climate is based on the fossil 
relics of past vegetable and animal life and on the physical effects 
which climatic conditions have on the surface rocks. The former is 
very difficult to interpret. Heavy vegetation does not always mean 
warm damp conditions, and both plants and animals may, in the 
course of ages, change their habits so that the early representative of 
a species which is now warmth-loving may have been developed in 
cold surroundings. For this reason, one cannot be certain of climatic 
conditions deduced from the remains of vegetable and animal life. 

The case is quite different when we base our climatic deductions on 
the physical features of old land surfaces. There can be no doubt 
when we find traces of salts left when an enclosed sea has dried up 
that we are dealing with a dry climate in which the rainfall was less 

' Friday Evening Discourse delivered at the Royal Institution on December 10, 1937. Reprinted by per- 
mission of the Royal Institution from Nature, vol. 141, No. 3570, April 2, 1938. 

289 



290 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



than the evaporation. But of all evidences of climate those of ice 
are the most unmistakable. At the same time one has to be careful, 
for today the presence of ice does not always mean a cold climate. 
In mountain regions glaciers descend the valleys into climates which 
are far from arctic, and in New Zealand especially, ice action is taking 
place in valleys which bear an almost subtropical vegetation. There 
have been periods in the past when ice formation was much more 
active than at present and of such an extent that only a radical 
change in climate can have been responsible. 

The evidence of the presence of ice during these periods in places 
where ice is quite impossible with the present climate is so clear that 
these Ice Ages, as they are called, are the most appropriate subjects 
for the study of climatic change. If we can find a cause for an Ice 




FiGUEE 1. — Pleistocene glaciatlon: Ice on land shown by white, ice on sea shown by light stipple. 

Age we shall have made a long step forward toward explaining all 
changes of climate. 

PRE CAMBRIAN ICE AGE 

In the early days of geology, when evidence of tropical vegetation 
was found in regions which are now far from the Tropics, it w^as sup- 
posed that the high temperature required by these plants was due 
to the earth stiU remaining hot from its earlier molten state. The 
discovery, however, of clear evidence of ice in pre-Cambrian times, 
that is, at a time far anterior to the appearance of vegetation, shows 
that the earth had by then already cooled to its present temperatures. 
Evidence of pre-Cambrian ice has been found in North America, 
Europe, China, South Africa, India, and Australia. Some geologists 
have concluded from this widespread evidence of ice that the pre- 
Cambrian Ice Age was extremely severe. So little is known, however, 



ICE AGES — SIMPSON 291 

about this early age, and there is no evidence that all these places 
were glaciated at the same time, that it is useless to try to reconstruct 
the chmatic conditions which then existed. The only certain con- 
clusion is that already stated, namely, that the temperature of the 
earth was then already sufficiently low to allow of ice formation. 

PERMO-CARBONIFEROUS ICE AGE 

After the pre-Cambrian Ice Age, there is little or no evidence of 
extensive ice until toward the end of the Carboniferous Period or the 
beginning of the Permian Period, when evidence of extensive ice 
appears. This period is called the Permo-Carboniferous Ice Age. 
The chief regions where the ice was extensive and the evidence un- 
doubted are in South America, South Africa, Australia, and India. 
The latter is well within the Tropics, and the evidence is perfectly 
clear that an extensive ice sheet existed at sea level in the Central 
Provinces, India. It is of great importance to notice that, so far as 
the evidence goes, the ice at tliis time was all situated within 40° of 
latitude of the Equator, and mainly in the Southern Hemisphere. 
Most geologists consider that at the same time the north polar regions 
had much higher temperatures than at present, luxuriant vegetation 
growing at this time in both Greenland and Spitsbergen. 

This would mean that while there was glaciation within the 
Tropics leading to vast ice sheets at sea level, there was an almost 
subtropical climate in polar regions. Tliis is a reversal of the 
climatic belts which no meteorologist can accept. Owing to the shape 
of the earth, the equatorial belt must always be warmer than the 
polar regions. The only explanation the meteorologist can give — 
and it was given by Wegener — is that the continents were not then 
in the same position relative to the Pole as they now occupy. In 
other words, the continents have moved since Permo-Carboniferous 
times. 

THE PLEISTOCENE ICE AGE 

After the Permian Period, there was another long stretch of time 
without any marked evidence of ice. This interval includes the whole 
of the Secondary and Tertiary divisions of geological time. 

Evidence of ice was not entirely absent during this period, but 
geologists are of the opinion that the climate of the world as a whole 
was warmer than at present. In any event there was nothing equiva- 
lent to the extensive ice fields which left their traces in the pre-Cam- 
brian and the Permo-Carboniferous Periods. 

The Tertiary ended with the Pliocene Period, when without doubt 
the climate of Europe was definitely warmer than at present. Toward 
the end of the Phocene Period the temperature commenced to fall in 
Europe, and evidence of ice made its appearance. Some time between 

114728—39 20 



292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

the end of the PUocene Period and the present time, that is, geologic- 
ally speaking, during the Pleistocene Period, there was a great exten- 
sion of ice in all parts of the world. 

The map (fig. 1) shows the area which was mider ice at some 
time or other during the Pleistocene Period. The north polar ice cap 
extended outward, reaching latitude 38° N. in North America, 50° N. 
in Europe, and 60° N. in Asia. In the British Isles the ice sheet ex- 
tended as far south as the Thames VaUey but did not cross it. The 
ice covering of the Antarctic was then much thicker than at present, 
and Meinardus estimates that the flow of ice from the Antarctic 
continent into the surromiding seas was at least three times as much as 
at present. 

Not only were the polar ice caps more extensive and thicker, but 
also the mountain glaciation was much developed and the glaciers 
reached much farther down the valleys. The evidence shows that 
this was so in aU parts of the world. Not only were the mountains 
which now carry ice more heavily glaciated, but also many mountains 
which now carry no permanent ice had extensive glaciers upon them. 

Detailed study of the deposits left behind by the ice shows that there 
was more than one advance and retreat of the ice during the Pleisto- 
cene Period. Glacial and interglacial epochs have been detected in all 
regions which were glaciated, both in regions covered by the extended 
polar ice caps and on the glaciated mountains. The history of the 
Pleistocene glaciation has been most completely studied by Penck 
and Bruckner in the Alps. The result of their work is summarized in 
figure 2, which is a reproduction of their classical diagram showing the 
variation of the height of the snow line in the Alps during the Pleisto- 
cene Period. From this diagram it will be seen that Penck and 
Bruckner concluded that the snow line descended far down the moun- 
tains on four occasions, the limits reached each time being practically 
the same, namely, about 1,500 meters (4,000-5,000 feet) below the 
present snow line. They gave the names: Gunz, Mindel, Riss, and 
Wurm to the four glacial epochs. It will be noticed that the four 
glacial epochs occur in pairs — the Gunz with the Mindel and the Riss 
with the Wiirm — with a rather longer interglacial epoch between 
them. 

There is no certain evidence that the history of the ice worked out 
in the Alps applies to other parts of the world ; but meteorological con- 
siderations make it very improbable that there were different glacial 
histories for each part of the world ; and as the evidence of glacial and 
interglacial epochs has been found wherever the glacial history of a 
coimtry can be worked out in detail, one is justified in concluding that 
these epochs occurred simultaneously as the result of a world-wide 
cause. 



ICE AGES — SIMPSON 293 

This conclusion is becoming more and more accepted by glaciologists 
as they work out the sequence of the glacial epochs in their own 
regions, and a meteorologist cannot accept any other conclusion. In 
the sequel, therefore, we shall consider that the glacial history of the 
Alps is representative of the glacial history of the world as a whole. 

The advance and retreat of the ice must have been accompanied by 
large variations in the climate. When a country such as Great 
Britain was invaded by an ice sheet, the climate must have been that 
of the polar regions today, and the fossils of plants and animals leave 
no doubt that such was the case. The climate during the interglacial 
periods, however, is much more interesting and unexpected. One 
would not have been surprised if the climate during the temporary 
retreat of the ice had remained cold and unpleasant. The evidence 
however, is quite clear that in some, if not all, the interglacial epochs, 
the climate became warmer and more genial than today. At Hotting, 
in the Alps near Innsbruck, fossil leaves have been found of a rho- 
dodendron which grows today only in Portugal and the Caucasus, 
where the temperature is higher and the rainfall greater than it now 
is in Hotting; in the rivers of Europe (including the Thames) the 

12 EInhelten s I 




Cheileen > <Mou5t^rlen > 

MR 




Jahrtausende 20 7 
Figure 2.— Penck and Bruckner's diagram of height of snow line iu Alps during the Pleistocene ice age, 

shells of fresh-water moUusks are found which now survive only in 
rivers such as the Nile, the temperatm-e of which is 10° C. higher 
than that of the European rivers of today; and on the coasts of 
Holland and Denmark, beds of sea shells were deposited containing 
species 18 percent of which today only occur south of the Bay of 
Biscay. 

There is still considerable controversy as to which of the interglacial 
epochs these finds should be referred ; so that we do not know whether 
all the interglacial epochs had warmer and wetter conditions than are 
experienced today. But there can be no doubt that in one or more 
of the interglacial epochs the climate not only returned to present-day 
conditions but also became warmer and wetter. 

Outside the areas which were invaded by the ice — the so-called 
glaciated regions — we must look to other records than those of ice to 
give us mformation regarding the changes of climate which occurred 



294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

there during the advance and retreat of the ice. In nonglaciated 
regions it is difficult to find traces of changes of temperature; but 
changes in rainfall leave clear records in river deposits and in the 
levels of lakes with small or no outlets. From such evidence there is 
no doubt that there were long and pronounced periods of heavy 
rainfall during the Pleistocene Period in practically all parts of the 
world. 

In North America the Great Basin, which is now an arid, sandy 
desert, was full of water, and the small existing intensely salt lakes 
were vast sheets of water to which the names Lake Bonneville and 
Lake Labontan have been given. According to Gilbert and Russell, 
these lakes were twice filled during the Pleistocene Period, thus 
indicating that in North America there were two pluvial periods. 

Wayland has reached the conclusion that in Uganda there have been 
two pluvial periods, one near the beginning of the Pleistocene Period 
and one toward the end; between these two pluvial periods the cli- 
mate was much drier than it is today. Huzayyin has also recognized 
two major pluvials during the Pleistocene in southwest Arabia.^ 

Pluvial periods were not confined to tropical and subtropical regions, 
for in the Swanscombe Gravels we have evidence of a much greater 
Thames than exists today. The Corbicula fluminaris contained in 
these gravels show that they were laid down during an interglacial 
epoch when the temperature was considerably higher than at present. 

Practically all deserts such as the Sahara, Libyan, and Kalahara 
show signs of water action in relatively recent times, and many of 
them are littered with the flint tools of prehistoric man, showing that 
in the latter half of the Pleistocene Period they supported sufficient 
animal life to make them good hunting grounds. 

It is probably too early to say definitely that in all parts of the world 
there were two pluvial periods, but the evidence is very strong, es- 
pecially in North America and Africa. 

The climatic conditions during the Pleistocene Ice Age may be 
summed up as follows: 

The Pleistocene Ice Age did not consist of a simple advance and 
retreat of the ice but of a sequence of glacial and interglacial epochs. 
Based on observation in the Alps, there were four glacial epochs 
separated by three interglacial epochs. During some at least of the 
interglacial epochs the climate was warmer and wetter than today. 
In regions not subjected to glaciation there is evidence of two great 
pluvial periods, one early and one late in the Pleistocene Period, 
separated by a long interval during which there was even less pre- 
cipitation than at present. 

> Nature, vol. 140, p. 513, 1937. 



ICE AGES — SIMPSON 295 

CAUSE OF THE PLEISTOCENE ICE AGE 

A very large number of theories have been propounded to explain 
the cause of the ice age. It is becoming more and more generally 
accepted that no change located in the earth itself— such as a change 
in the distribution of land and water — or in the earth's atmosphere — 
such as a change in the amount of carbon dioxide or volcanic dust — 
can explain the sequence of climatic changes associated with the 
Pleistocene Ice Age, and we are being thrown back onto changes 
outside the earth. The most obvious source of climatic change would 
appear to be solar radiation. This seems such a simple solution. If 
we assume that the sun's radiation can change, all climates would 
appear to become possible ; an ice age would be produced by reducing 
the radiation and a warm period by increasing it. Unfortunately, 
things do not go in this simple way. As the result of a study which 
I made a few years ago to find what happens to the solar radiation 
when it falls on the earth, and how the earth returns to space the 
energy which it receives from the sun, I was led to the conclusion that 
the last ice age was not caused by a decrease of solar radiation but 
by an increase. I must now try to explain this paradox. 

The sun sends out a stream of energy which we call simshine. The 
earth intercepts a quantity of this energy which on absorption warms 
up the surface and the atmosphere. If the earth had been a "black 
body" it would have warmed up to a temperature, which can be easily 
calculated, when it would have emitted just as much radiation as 
it received from the sun. In this way the temperature of the earth 
would have increased and decreased with an increase and decrease 
of the solar radiation. One of the first results of my investigation 
was to show that the earth does not react to changes in solar radiation 
like a "black body." I was able to show that if the solar radiation 
were to increase, the temperature of the earth's surface would not 
increase to anything like the extent that one would expect from the 
increase of solar radiation; but that the cloud would increase and 
return the greater part of the additional solar radiation without 
warming up the surface of the earth. 

In this way the balance between the incoming and outgoing radia- 
tion is maintained more by the amount of cloud than by the tempera- 
ture. In present conditions just about half the sky is covered by 
cloud; the amoimt is slightly different in the different latitudes, but 
not to any large extent. The clouds appear bright because they 
reflect the sun's light. The Ught which the clouds reflect cannot be 
used to warm up the earth; it is just returned to space, and to that 
extent the solar radiation is reduced. The amount of solar radiation 
returned directly by the clouds has been measured and proves to be 
43 percent of the total incoming solar radiation. That is, nearly 



296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

half the solar radiation which reaches the earth is intercepted and 
returned by the clouds without taking any part in warming up the 
earth. 

We will now consider what happens to the radiation which reaches 
the earth. Because of the shape of the earth, more solar radiation 
falls per square foot on the surface at the Equator than at the poles. 
The Equator is therefore maintained at a higher temperature than 
the poles. This difference of temperature causes differences of pres- 
sure in the atmosphere, and a circulation of air is set up between the 
Equator and the poles. This is called the general circulation of the 
atmosphere ; and all winds ultimately can be traced back to differences 
of temperature, mainly those between the Equator and the poles. 

In the course of time the atmospheric conditions reach a steady 
state with a certain temperature distribution, a certain amount of 
air motion, and a certain amount of cloud, which combined are just 
sufficient to cause a balance between the incoming and outgoing 
radiation. 

Now let us consider what would be the effect of increasing the solar 
radiation by a specified amount. At first the increased radiation 
would reach the earth's siu-face and warm it up, but on account of 
the shape of the earth the Equator would be warmed up more than 
the poles. Hence, the difference in temperature between the Equator 
and the poles would be increased and this would lead to an increase 
in the general circulation of the atmosphere. The increased tempera- 
ture and the increased wind cause an increase in the amount of water 
evaporated from the oceans. This increased water in the atmos- 
phere leads to greater formation of cloud and, as the precipitation 
must equal the evaporation, to an increase in precipitation also. 

The increased cloud, however, reacts on the solar radiation and 
reflects an increased proportion of it. The final state is a new balance 
between the incoming and outgoing radiation produced mainly by 
the increased amount of cloud, the only temperature change being 
that necessary to produce the greater amount of cloud. 

Different parts of the world wiU be affected differently by these 
changes. In equatorial and temperate regions where the precipita- 
tion all falls as rain, the effects of increasing the solar radiation are 
simple: there is a slight increase of temperature and a general in- 
crease of rainfall. Thus the most important effect of increasing and 
decreasing the solar radiation is to increase and decrease the pre- 
cipitation, and the two keep step with one another; a period of in- 
creased solar radiation is always a period of increased rainfall and 
vice versa. 

When, however, we approach the poles, where the precipitation 
may be either in the form of snow or rain, the conditions are much 
more compHcated and must be studied in more detail. 



ICE AGES — SIMPSON 



297 



Let us fix our attention on a region where at present the summer 
temperature does not rise above the freezing point, so that there is 
little or no summer melting of the ice — the Antarctic is such a locaUty. 
Now let the solar radiation increase. In consequence, the precipita- 
tion and the mean annual temperature both increase, as indicated by 
curve I of figure 3. At first all the precipitation is in the form of 
snow, but when the summer temperature approaches the freezing 
point — say, at A — some of the summer precipitation falls as rain. 
Curve II represents the annual snowfall, and as the radiation increases 
beyond the point marked A the curve for snowfall falls increasingly 




RADIATION 
Figure 3.— Effect of increasing radiation on precipitation and accumulation of snow. 

below the curve for the total precipitation. Curve III represents the 
evaporation and summer melting combined. At first there is no 
melting, only evaporation, but after A melting becomes more im- 
portant, and at B the loss of ice through evaporation and melting 
equals the total snowfaU. Curve IV in the lower half of the diagram 
represents the annual accumulation of snow ; it is obviously the differ- 
ence between curves II and III. At first, the annual accumulation 
of snow is small; as the solar radiation increases, the accumulation of 
snow increases until it reaches a maximum, after which it rapidly 
decreases, owing to the rapid increase in the amount of melting. 



298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Finally, in spite of the greater total precipitation and large annual 
snowfall, the melting is so great, especially in the summer, that no 
accumulation at all takes place. 

Although it may seem strange that an increase of temperature can 
produce increased glaciation, it may be demonstrated by a simple 
experiment. In four identical glass jars (pi. 1) each containing a 
layer of water in the bottom and a metal vessel at the top which can 
be cooled by solid carbon dioxide, the water at the bottom represents 
the Equator and the metal vessel at the top the polar regions. One 
jar (second from the left) contains water at the temperature of the 
room and there is an appreciable deposit of ice at the top. By adding 
ice to the water in the vessel to the left, equivalent to lowering the 
equatorial temperature, the deposit of ice at the top is much reduced. 
The water in the third vessel has been warmed by a small gas jet, 
and the effect of the heating has been greatly to increase the deposit 
of ice. In the fourth bottle the temperature has been raised still 
higher, with the consequence that the ice has almost entirely disap- 
peared by melting. 

These four bottles can be regarded as representing increasing radi- 
ation as shown in figure 3. The first bottle has a low temperature 
(little radiation) and the ice deposit is tliin, corresponding to A on 
the diagram. The second bottle has a higher temperature (more 
radiation) and therefore corresponds to a point to the right of A on 
figure 3 and shows a greater accumulation of ice. The third bottle 
represents the conditions where the ice deposit reaches its maximum, 
and the fourth bottle represents some point beyond B where the 
melting and evaporation exceed the deposit. 

The conditions represented by figure 3 and the experiment apply 
to the polar regions and high mountains. At first an increase of solar 
radiation causes an increased accumulation of snow and ice in spite 
of increased temperature. During this stage, ice sheets form and 
glaciers advance, giving rise to a glacial epoch. As the radiation 
increases still further, the ice melts away and we have overcast skies 
and much precipitation but no ice accumulation. When the solar 
radiation decreases, conditions are reversed and the whole sequence 
is gone through in the reverse order. 

Figure 4 has been prepared to show the sequence of changes of ice 
and meteorological factors when the solar radiation makes two com- 
plete oscillations. The abscissae represent time increasing toward 
the right. Curve I represents two complete cycles of solar radiation 
and curve II represents the mean temperature of the world as a whole. 
Curve III is the curve of precipitation and therefore follows directly 
the curve of solar radiation. Curve IV is the curve of snow accumu- 
lation. As drawn, it shows some accumulation at the minima of the 
solar radiation, but a complete disappearance of the accumulation 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Simpson 



Plate l 




Experiment To Show How Increase of Temperature Can Produce 

Increased Glaciation. 

Temperature at bottom of bottles increases from left to right. 



ICE AGES — SIMPSON 299 

owing to increased temperature at the maxima of the radiation. The 
ice which accumulates year by year in the specified area must escape; 
if the area is a mountain top, the escape will be by way of glaciers; 
if it is a polar cap, the escape will be by an ice sheet spreading over 
the surrounding country. In either case the ice is transported into 
regions where the melting is greater than the snowfall, and the greater 
the annual accumulation the farther will the ice penetrate, down the 
mountain side if a glacier and into lower latitudes if an ice sheet. 
Curve V shows the advance and retreat of the ends of the glaciers 
or of the front of an ice sheet. 

Examining the last curve, we see a close resemblance to Penck and 
Bruckner's curve for the height of the snow line in the Alps (fig. 2). 
In each there are four advances of the ice. The advances are ar- 
ranged in pairs, with short interglacials between the advances in the 
pairs, and the pairs separated by a longer interglacial. This arrange- 
ment comes from the fact that there are two glacial epochs for each 
maximum of the solar radiation. The interglacials have different 
climates according as they occur at the maximum or a minimum of 
the solar radiation. The former are warm and wet and the latter are 
cold and dry. We are at present approaching a minimum of solar 
radiation. In consequence our rivers are smaller and our tempera- 
ture lower than they were in the last interglacial. We now see why 
there were only two pluvial periods in nonglaciated regions for the 
four glacial epochs in polar regions and on mountains. If the theory 
is correct, the last interglacial — the Riss-Wiirm interglacial — was a 
warm one, and to it the evidence for a warm wet climate which I 
have described above should belong. 

Thus we see how two oscillations of radiation have produced in 
nonglaciated regions two pluvial periods, and in glaciated regions four 
glacial epochs separated by three interglacial epochs, two of which 
were warm and wet and one cold and dry. If the theory is correct 
we are now living in a cold dry epoch owing to the decrease of solar 
radiation from its last maximum. If the solar radiation again in- 
creases, there will be another glacial epoch and our epoch will become 
a second cold dry interglacial. 

An obvious objection to the explanation of the last Ice Age which 
I have given above is that with their present temperatures no amount 
of precipitation would result in the formation of an ice sheet over 
England and Scotland and still less over Ireland; yet we know that 
such ice sheets did exist. The objection is stdl stronger when it is 
remembered that the theory requires the increase ofprecipita tion to 
be accompanied by an increase of temperature. 

There is another problem which has puzzled everyone who has 
studied the cause of the Ice Ages. If we plot on a circumpolar map 



300 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



the limits of the ice sheet, we find that the area covered by the ice 
was not concentric with the North Pole. It extended much farther 
south over Europe and the east of North America than it did over 
Asia and the east of America ; in fact the center of the ice sheet was 
in the middle of Greenland, 20° of latitude from the Pole. 

The answer to both these problems is the same and gives strong 
support to the correctness of the theory. If the area around the 
North Pole were land instead of sea, we should have at the Pole a 
great ice sheet, similar to that over Greenland and the Antarctic, 





.oitiiS^/, 



!=^^^^^. 




ADVANCE AND KETB,EAT OF ICE 




TIME 
Figure 4.— Effect of two cycles of solar radiation on glaciation. 

rising many thousands of feet above sea level. With increased pre- 
cipitation this ice cap would increase in height and extent and grow 
symmetrically about the Pole. With the present distribution of land 
and sea such a north polar cap is not possible. The ice which forms 
in the Arctic Ocean during winter breaks up in the summer and a 
certain amount escapes into the North Atlantic Ocean. At the maxi- 
mum of a glacial epoch when the coasts around the Arctic Ocean were 
under ice, there would be a great flow of ice throughout the year into 
the sea. The whole Arctic Ocean would become packed with ice which 
would have to find an outlet somewhere. The Bering Strait between 



ICE AGES — SIMPSON 



301 



Asia and America is both narrow and shallow, and no appreciable 
amount of ice would escape that way. There was always, however, a 
wide, deep connection between the Arctic Ocean and the Atlantic 
Ocean between Greenland and Norway. Through this passage ice- 
bergs and thick pack ice would move southward, filling the North 
Atlantic with ice and lowering the temperature. 

Figure 5 has been drawn to illustrate this. The ice-covered area 
has been stippled and it will be seen at once that this area is not con- 
centric with the Pole. The flow of ice on the land is shown by thin 




FiGUEE 5.— Lines of flow of ice: Thick arrows, floating ice; thin arrows, land ice. 

arrows. Ice flows into the Arctic Ocean from the northern coasts of 
America and Asia, and moves, as shown by the long thick arrows, 
into the North Atlantic, where it is replenished by ice from Greenland 
and Norway, and a stream of ice passing down Davis Straits joins it 
to the south of Greenland. The whole of the North Atlantic was 
filled with ice. 

These conditions would have far-reaching effects on the climate of 
the British Isles and the adjacent parts of Europe. In the first place 
the Gulf drift would no longer exist, so that instead of the western 



302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

coasts of Europe being washed by relatively warm water they were 
washed by cold seas dotted with ice. In the second place the Ice- 
landic depression would either cease to exist or would be displaced 
to the south, so that the warm southwesterly winds to wliich we owe 
our mild climate were replaced by cold northwesterly winds. With 
these large changes there is no wonder that ice sheets formed on the 
British Isles. On the American coast the winds would be northeast 
and drive the ice-laden water on to the American coast. Thus 
glacial conditions extended far to the south on both coasts of the 
Atlantic Ocean. As there was no corresponding flow of ice into the 
Pacific Ocean, there was no simUar glaciation of the Pacific coasts. 
Thus the glaciation of the British Isles and the unsymmetrical 
position of the ice sheets relative to the Pole were both due to flow 
of ice from the Arctic Ocean into the North Atlantic. If this con- 
nection had not existed, the distribution of the ice would have been 
quite different. 



SOIL EROSION: THE GROWTH OF THE DESERT IN AFRICA 
AND ELSEWHERE ' 



By Sir Daniel Hall, K. C. B., M. A., D. Sc, LL. D., F. R. S., M. R. I. 

Director of the John Innes Horticultural Institution; lately Chief Scientific Adviser 
to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries 



[With two plates] 

It is a commonplace of geology that the surface of the earth is 
constantly in motion — that our mountain ranges have taken shape and 
our river courses and valleys have been excavated by the simple 
agencies of rain, frost, and wind. But we are accustomed to think of 
these agencies as operating over long periods, geological rather than 
historic time. Even Darwin's discovery that earthworms can bury 
stones on the surface of pasture land at the rate of an inch in every 
4 or 5 years came as a surprise. But in many parts of the world a 
much more rapid movement of the surface is going on, with serious 
economic consequences to the agriculture of the country — and it is 
this form of denudation, that we call soil erosion, with which I propose 
to deal tonight. 

Usually we regard the soil as something particularly stable, but I 
want you to realize that this stability is almost wholly due to its normal 
covering of vegetation. By soil we understand the surface layer of 
relatively fine-grained material — sand and sUt and clay, generally 
dark in color through the presence of humus — and traversed by the 
roots of the surface vegetation. As a rule the soU proper is not more 
than 6 inches to a foot deep; below this the humus becomes smaU in 
amount, though there are a few "black soils," as in Russia or Manitoba, 
which are rich in humus to a depth of 4 feet or so, but these are un- 
common. But what I would remind you of, even at the risk of being 
elementary, is that the fertility of land resides in this surface layer of 
soil. The humus supplies the nitrogen, which is the chief element of 
plant nutrition, and the phosphoric acid, of almost equal importance, 
is chiefly accumulated in the upper soU. It is a fallacy of old standing 
that the good earth lies below to be brought up by the man who will 
put his plow in deep enough. Nevertheless, there is great virtue in 

' A lecture delivered before the Royal Institution of Great Britain at the weekly evening meeting, Novem- 
ber 12, 1937. Reprinted by permission from the pamphlet of the Royal Institution. 

303 



304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

deep cultivation, provided the topsoil is kept on top and the lower 
layers are only stirred and broken up. 

This being premised, there is always a danger that if the cover of 
vegetation is removed the soil itself will begin to move under the 
action of either the wind or the rain. Rarely do we see these actions 
at work on a large scale in England; the climatic conditions are not 
favorable, for our rainfall is gentle and evenly distributed tliroughout 
the year, and our big winds are mostly associated with rain. It is in 
semiarid regions where long periods of drought may be followed by 
torrential rains that soil erosion becomes an active danger. Still, I 
have known cases: some 40 years ago in the Lincolnshire Wolds near 
Louth an intense thunderstorm, such as is loosely called a cloudburst, 
broke over a steep hillside on the chalk, the grass covering of which 
had been broken near the top of the hill by a rabbit burrow. The 
rushing rainwater got an entry there and in less than an hour had 
stripped the hillside do^vn to the bare chalk. I have known a similar 
thunderstorm in Kent to remove 3 feet of soil from the hop garden, 
leaving the plants with their network of roots suspended on the super- 
structure of wire and string. I have again known a barley crop on the 
Surrey sands blown into the hedge after it had become 2 or 3 inches 
high. But these are rare instances, which serve only to illustrate the 
risk of erosion in countries where oiu* total rainfall of a year may be 
concentrated into 1 day, or where scorching winds may obtain a run 
of 1,000 miles over the steppe. 

The earliest cases of erosion to be noticed are those which follow 
deforestation in regions where the mountains in which the rivers take 
their rise are below the permanent snow line. In such countries, 
typically in the eastern Mediterranean — Calabria, Greece, the greater 
part of Asia Minor — the natural sequence is forest on the higher slopes 
where the rainfall is greatest, passing into upland meadows as the 
slope grows less and finally into river meadows as the river nears the 
sea. There is no evidence in support of the belief that forests increase 
the rainfall of a country, indeed, by the transpiration from their leaves 
they must reduce the total amount of the rainfall retained by the soil, 
but they serve as its regulator. The spongy soil below the trees, rich 
in humus, absorbs the rain as it falls, whereby it reappears later in 
the springs and furnishes the watercourses and rivers when the rainy 
season has passed. But too commonly the forests have been cut down 
without any regard to their regeneration; not only has the maximum 
of timber been cut out but there has also been the desire to extend the 
grazing. Grazing is all very well again if regulated, but unfortunately 
in these Mediterranean countries goats are among the chief grazmg 
animals. It is no accident that old tradition has represented the Evil 
One with the hoofs of a goat, for of all animals the goat plays the 
devil with land. Hungry goats will eat anything that grows; they 



SOIL EROSION HALL 305 

destroy every seedling tree as fast as it gets its head up ; they complete 
and extend the destruction the woodcutters have begun. At the same 
time, with their sharp hoofs they break the surface of the soil, in 
other places they tread hard paths down which the rain begins to run 
with gathering volume and velocity. In a very short time during the 
rains gullies begin to form as the soil is washed downhill ; year by year 
the gullies extead and bite deeper into the earth, until in no long time — 
a generation or two — the hillsides that had been forest and upland 
meadow get bared down to the hard infertile subsoil or to the rock 
itself. Nor does the damage end there; the rainfall, running off the 
bared hill country without a check, develops as a torrent lower down, 
attacking the meadows bordering its course. The earth also that 
has been washed off the hillsides is carried down to the plains where 
the rivers lose their velocity; there it deposits and turns the river 
into a chain of malarious swamps, it chokes it mouth, and destroys 
any harbor that was there. Such has been the history of much of 
the fairest land on the seaboard of the Levant; on the heights bare 
rock where once forest and meadow flourished, rivers that are torrents 
in winter and dry in summer, old seaports no longer accessible. The 
destruction of the forest was thus a major factor in the decay of 
Greece and Rome itself; it meant, in the first place, the loss of farming 
land and of the agricultural population which formed the backbone 
of the early armies of the republics. With the swamps came the 
spread of malaria, which again has been invoked as one of the great 
causes of the fall of ancient civilization. 

Cogent as have been these lessons, they were not always remem- 
bered in the new countries opened up in the nineteenth century. 
Forests were destroyed greedily and indiscriminately, but the more 
evident consequences have been that the rivers became subject to 
violent flooding due to the sudden run-off in the rains, and dams and 
irrigation reservoirs began to silt up rapidly. The most spectacular 
form of soil erosion is that exhibited by the vast dust storms which in 
1934 and 1935 especially swept over the United States east of the 
Mississippi. It was no new phenomenon, although before that time 
it had not been considered politic to talk about such a blot on pioneer- 
ing enterprise in the Middle West. Locally a vast area, which included 
western Oklahoma, western Kansas, eastern Colorado, the Panhandle 
of Texas, and parts of Wyoming, was known as the "dust bowl." 
In 1934 it was estimated that on a single day 300 million tons of rich 
topsoU was swept as far away as the Atlantic. There is a story that 
in the diary of an old Nebraska doctor was found the entry: "Jime 
14th. Hot as hell, \vind 40 miles an hour, two Kansas farms go by 
every minute." 

It is not the United States only that has been suffering thus from 
wind erosion; across the northern border the conditions leading to 



306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

wind erosion are repeated in Saskatchewan and Alberta (pi. 1). I 
have myself seen the soil on the move on the great plains, drifts of 
sand piled up against fences or any other obstruction, choking the 
sunk roads, a most depressing phenomenon, especially when ac- 
companied by swarms of grasshoppers, smaller but Uttle less destruc- 
tive than the locusts of the Old World. We have similar accounts 
from Central Asia of the dust storms and encroachments of drifting 
sand in the neighborhood of Bokhara. It has been stated that only 
the Caspian Sea has prevented the march of the sand into the fertile 
regions of the lower Volga. But of recent years the Soviet engineers 
have discovered a means of getting a cover of vegetation again and 
so stabilizing the soil. 

The causes of tliis terrible wind erosion are easy to discern. It 
arises only in comparatively arid districts where the rainfall is below 
the 20-inch level, and (in America, at any rate) where the fundamental 
subsoil is of a rather sandy type — a recent glacial drift. Before white 
settlement these regions were clothed with grass and were the natural 
home of the buffalo. Some of the land was good grazing, with a fair 
depth of black soil rich in humus, but in the drier parts the sod was 
thin and there were only a few inches of soil. The black soil regions 
were fertile and were the first to be broken up; the poorer land was 
kept for ranching, healthy for either cattle or sheep if not too closely 
stocked. The plow, however, began to encroach upon these thin 
soils, with great rapidity when prices of cereals went soaring up from 
1917 onward. At first all went well, for the cultivation began in a 
cycle of good rainfall seasons, and there was some stock both of humus 
in the soil and of accumulated rainfall below. The system of farming 
that prevailed was of a wasteful type, a succession of cereals, or wheat 
and maize with occasional timothy grass in the better lands of the 
Middle West, but wheat and oats year after year in the Canadian 
North v/est. The straw was burnt, no stock was kept; a few years of 
such mining in the soU with no recuperative crop was enough to 
exhaust the limited stock of humus. Then years of drought came 
when the original subsoil reserve of water had been used up and the 
Ught soil, no longer bound together either by vegetation or humus, 
began to drift in the fierce wdnds that sweep over those great plains. 
The plow had destroyed the binding power of the soil; the wind is 
then able to remove the whole of the fertile top layer of soil and leave 
nothing but the denser subsoil which is too infertile to carry a crop. 
Nor has it been the case that the good soil is merely transferred from 
one farm to the next; as a rule in Canada it has been swept right away 
into the Great Lakes or the barren lands to their north, or even into 
the Atlantic itself. 

It is sometimes represented that agriculture has been public enemy 
No. 1, as destructive an exploitation as lumbering and more rapid in 



SOIL EROSIOX — HALL 307 

its action. But what the pioneer opening up a new country practices 
is rarely agriculture; he breaks up the virgin surface, and not uncom- 
monly expects to move on in a few years and make his profit out of 
enhanced land values. It is imperative for him to grow nothing but im- 
mediate cash crops, and the process on much of this western land was 
of the crudest. Often the farmers, once their crops had been lodged 
in the elevators, turned the key in the door and went off to Cahfomia 
until seedtime came round in the spring. There was no Uvestock on 
the farm, no garden round the gaunt frame house, the farmer seemed 
to have little thought of making a home, but only of cashing in some 
crops and then moving on. The pioneer works with a feeling of infinity 
at the back of his mind; there is always more land somewhere. As 
one of them is reported to have said to a United States Soil Conserva- 
tion officer: "I have run through two farms, and I'm getting out of 
this. You can't teach me nothing about farming." Without doubt 
much of the poorest of tliis land ought never to have been plowed, even 
in boom times; once the crust has been broken it becomes a sort of 
running sore, always eating into the land on its margin. As a ranch 
under its natural vegetation it had a modest productive value, and 
to that use it must return. But the process of natural regeneration 
will take time, a generation perhaps before vegetation will creep over 
the barren subsoil to fix the sand and build up some reserve of humus. 
Its productive capacity is too low to pay for fertilizers, but a few 
plants can be introduced which will colonize the waste and begin to 
restore fertility. In the better land which can be made to retain its 
productivity under crop, a conservative system of farming must be 
introduced in which the cereals will alternate with a cover crop, partly 
leguminous, which when grazed will both add humus to stabihze the 
soil and collect nitrogen from the atmosphere. We know that many 
European soils have been cultivated for 1,000 years or more without 
showing any decreased production, by making use of the power of 
certain bacteria to fix nitrogen. In China, too, that mother of all 
the arts of life, intensive cultivation has been maintained for 2,000, 
3,000, perhaps even 4,000 years without soil erosion or loss of fertility. 
Of recent years improved methods of cultivation have been intro- 
duced to minimize the danger of soil drifting. Since it is inevitable 
that at certain seasons of the year, indeed in dry farming areas through- 
out a whole year, the soil should be cultivated while bare of a crop, 
the practice has been introduced of dividing the land into strips, the 
bare land alternating with land under crop in place of the former large 
areas under the same treatment. Thus the incipient soil erosion under 
the wind is checked before it can proceed far, and a very efficient 
measure of protection is attained. 

114728—39 21 



308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

One other major work of reconstruction is needed, though it is being 
taken in hand on a large scale in the United States, and that is the 
establishment of shelterbelts to break up the fierce winds that rage 
over these open, treeless spaces. It is not an easy matter to get trees 
started, especially in the north in Saskatchewan and Alberta, where 
the range of species that will stand up to the extremes of climate is 
limited, but a certain number of suitable species have been found. 
Besides the regional planting of cross-country belts, farmers are being 
taught to protect their own holdings. 

So far I have only been describing to you cases where the eroding 
agent is the wind on the flat plains, but erosion by rain is even more 
common wherever the cultivated land is set on any slope and the 
rains are heavy. The danger does not lie in a large annual rainfall; 
some of the worst destruction is wrought in regions where a low total 
is concentrated into short intense spells. A high rainfall will, as a 
rule, generate such a forest vegetation as will protect the soil, though 
as tea planters in Ceylon and Assam have found to their cost, any 
piece of cultivated soil on a slope is in danger of erosion, sometimes a 
slow continuous removal of the good soil, sheet erosion, sometimes a 
catastrophic wash-out by gullying. Preventive measures are now 
well known; terrace the worst slopes and cultivate along the contour 
lines so as to avoid setting up watercourses. The object is to get the 
soil to absorb the rain as it falls without giving it a chance to set up a 
run over the surface, but in bad cases it may be necessary to break 
the contour terraces at intervals with spillways which lead accumu- 
lated water into an unobstructed drain or watercourse. Alternatively 
where washing is severe, occasional belts of unplowed vegetation 
should be left, in order to break any run-off that may have been set 
up. By such grading of the slope, coupled with the growth between 
the bushes of a temporary crop of some leguminous plant, wliich can 
be dug in so as to add to the stock both of nitrogen and humus, the 
tea planters of Ceylon have been able to check soil erosion even with 
the excessive rainfall that often prevails there. It should be remem- 
bered that such a system of contour terracing has been practiced in 
China from time immemorial. 

But wherever torrential rains occur there is always the danger of 
starting gullies in bare soil. We can see the process operating in 
this country when rain falls on any spoil bank or bare cutting; as 
soon as the rate of fall becomes sufficient to cause an actual flow of 
water at any spot, it acquires an excavating power and begins to cut 
a channel in the loose earth, a gully which not only enlarges itself 
by the undercutting of its banks but tends to eat its way backward. 
Gullying can be initiated either by careless management of culti- 
vated soil, or on grassland by overgrazing, which bares the surface. 
Even before actual overgrazing sets in, both cattle and sheep will 



SOIL EROSION HALL 309 

tread bare tracks along which streams will begin to flow during the 
rains and to acquire sufficient velocity to eat into the soil. In how- 
ever small a way such gullying starts, if it is not checked it extends 
itself from season to season, both fanwise and by eating uphill, until 
eventually, by a sort of geometrical progression, the large area may 
become impassable to man and beast. Though agriculture generally 
is indicted as the initiator of erosion, more properly it is the recldess- 
ness or the want of foresight in man that should be blamed. 

In a recent book. Rich Land, Poor Land,^ there is an account of a 
gully with a history: 

The land fell away almost sheer for 200 feet. We stood over one of the gully's 
arms and far down caught a glimse of the central basin. The guide took up the 
tale. "Do you know what started him? A trickle of water running off a farmer's 
barn about 40 years ago. Just one damn little trickle, and now a third of the 
county's gone — 40,000 acres." 

One should realize that in certain regions and climates the soil is 
so lacking in any binding power save its skin of vegetation that all 
handling of the soil has to be watched with the same sort of com- 
munal care that is accorded to fire risks in a crowded city. 

Nor is agriculture the only culprit in initiating the destruction of 
the vegetation. At a place called Ducktown in Tennessee, a gullied 
area has been created through the destruction of the vegetation by 
sulphur dioxide from a copper smelter. "In a great circle about the 
smelter, measuring perhaps 10 miles in diameter, every living thing 
had been destroyed by the sulphur fumes." 

The loss of land by soil erosion is not the only loss the community 
suffers. The soil that the rain starts moving reaches the rivers and 
has to find a resting place somewhere. It is in regions liable to 
erosion that irrigation becomes of so much importance, and dams are 
thrown across the rivers to store the floodwater of the rains. But no 
one had foreseen what masses of sand and silt would begin to choke 
the reservoirs when erosion was going on at the headwaters. I quote 
from the same book. Rich Land, Poor Land: 

Elephant Butte Dam was built by the United States to guarantee New Mexico's 
quota of water "forever." "Forever" will end in a few years if the Rio Puerco, 
which chiefly ravishes the Rio Grande, is not controlled. Every flood season it 
pours 9,000 acre-feet of silt into Elephant Lake. 

Even if there are no dams, the eroded material is deposited on the 
river flood meadows of the lower valley, a fertilizing deposit as long 
as the topsoil is coming down, but as gullying proceeds the river is 
laden with larger quantities of the sterile subsoil material. The bed 
of the river steadily rises through accretions of silt, and the flood 
banks, like the levees of the Mississippi, have to be raised to keep the 

' Chase, Stuart, Rich land, poor land, McQraw Hill Publishing Co., New York, 1936. 



310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

floodwaters back. You will have noticed how the last Mississippi 
flood of 1936 was the wildest and most dangerous of any in the history 
of the river, notwithstanding all the protective measures that had 
been carried out, simply because the lower river is being raised more 
and more above the level of the surrounding country. 

A large amount of work is now being done in the United States to 
control gullying and to reclaim the devastated land. In the early stages 
gullying can be checked by throwing dams across the gash, dams 
which may be timber or concrete or just bushes, alive or dead, any- 
thing that will check the rush of water and cause the sediment to 
begin to accumulate. Even more effective has been the introduction 
of rapidly growing vegetation, e. g., Kudzu (Pueriana Thunbergiana 
hirsuta), a creeping leguminous plant, which not only checks the flow 
of water and filters out the silt but binds the earth and stops further 
washing, and at the same time gathers nitrogen and begins to buUd up 
a new soil. The Soil Conservation Service in the United States is 
bringing into play all the resources of science and engineering to 
repair the damage which has been inflicted upon the land of the 
United States by hasty exploitation. I would instance again the 
Civilian Conservation Corps, that inspiration of President Roose- 
velt's, who in 1932, when the youth of America found no prospect of 
employment of any kind on leaving school or college, gathered some 
300,000 of them into a service and set them to work to clean up the 
countrj^side. They were turned on to fire-prevention work in the 
forests, to checking erosion, to road maldng and vermin destruction in 
the national parks, to various forms of reclamation and salvage work — 
the corps itself being the most magnificent piece of human salvage 
this generation has Imown, One cannot but think that it would be 
of value to our population if all our young men could be conscripted 
for 6 months of their life to carry out public work for the improvement 
of our countryside. 

The examples of erosion I have been putting before you are all due 
to unthinking exploitations of the soil by civilized men. I now want 
you to consider what is going on in Africa under native systems of 
farming. To begin with, we must realize that none of the African 
tribes had arrived at what may be called a "conservative" system of 
farming, such as has been the custom of European races and of many 
Asiatics from the earliest times of which we have record. European 
farming is essentially founded upon a rotation of crops in which a 
recuperative legume like clover or beans finds a place, and in which 
again livestock play their part in converting into manure such parts 
of the crops, like straw, as are not available for human food, together 
with grass and other rough fodder from the uncultivated land. The 
African tribes are still in the more primitive stage of "shifting culture." 
The cultivator is allotted a particular plot in the area of jungle or 



SOIL EROSION — HALL 311 

bush belonging to his clan; this he, or rather his wives, clear, perhaps 
burning off the timber before putting in the crops — millet and now 
maize, cassava, yams, etc. In 2 or 3 years the soil begins to become 
exhausted or weeds become intractable, whereupon the plot is aban- 
doned and a new piece is taken up. The abandoned plot soon covers 
itself with the natural vegetation and in course of time, perhaps 10, 
perhaps 30 years, recovers suflBciently to be ready to take into cultiva- 
tion again. Thus the tribe requires manj^ times as large an acreage 
of land as is actually in cultivation at any one time, and if the tribe 
is increasing in numbers they will be eating pretty steadily into hitherto 
unoccupied grassland or forest. One other featiu^e is of importance; 
the Bantu tribes who predominate ui East Africa attach the greatest 
value to livestock, particidarly to cattle. Cattle represent wealth 
and position, they are intimately bound up in tribal custom with the 
marriage ceremonies, indeed they enjoy a definitely religious status. 
They are the essential consideration that has to be tendered for a 
wiie. But they serve little or no economic purpose. They are not 
eaten except ceremonially, by many tribes they are not milked, they 
are not beasts of burden, neither is their dung used as manure. Sheep 
and goats are in the same category, they are less sacred and less val- 
uable, their only economic product is their skins for clotliing. In 
one sense cattle are money, but they are also something more than 
pecunia; every native is anxious to increase the number he owns, for 
on that depends his credit in the tribe. Of course, there are other 
tribes like the Masai who are pastoralists, not cultivators, and who 
live largely upon animal food, in the case of the Masai upon milk and 
blood. These tribes maintain large herds of cattle and goats and 
shift their location seasonally with the grazing ; what little cultivation 
goes on within their reserves used to be carried out by dependent men 
of other tribes. Nowadaj'^s, however, cultivation is increasing. 

Consider the consequences — within this century British rule has 
maintained peace among the tribes, and with the cessation of raiding, 
numbers have been rising steadily. According to census returns, 
the native population in the Union of South Africa has doubled in the 
last 50 years; in Basutoland the estimated population multiplied four- 
fold between 1879 and 1921. In Kenya the annual rate of increase is 
estimated at about 1 ji percent, which means doubling the numbers in 
46 years, and similar estimates are made for the Nandi tribes in the 
Kavirondo, and for the Uganda population. These increases are, of 
course, not universal, for the Masai seem to be shrinking, as do the 
northern Nigerian tribes, where the spread of the desert has become 
marked. There are other cases of dwindling populations, some of 
which may be ascribed to maladministration without due regard to 
the interests of the natives. 



312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

The increase of human population has been accompanied by an 
even greater increase in the numbers of livestock, which in the old 
days had been effectively kept under by raiding. ''What are you 
looking at?" said a district officer, who had climbed up to the crest 
of the great Nandi escarpment, to two old chiefs he found gazing down 
at the plain of the Nyanza. "Our cattle," was the answer, with a 
wave of the hand toward a settlement of one of the weaker tribes below. 
But with these checks gone, the animal population has outgrown the 
means of sustenance, and even in some districts is destroying the 
vegetation in uncultivated areas, which should be regenerating against 
their turn to be brought into cultivation. The Native Economic 
Commission of South Africa, reporting in 1932, stated: "With the 
exception of certain parts of Zululand and Pondoland, every native 
area is overstocked," and estimates that between 1918 and 1930 
cattle increased from seven to seventeen hundred thousand, and sheep 
from two and one-fourth to nearly four million. The Kenya Land 
Commission, reporting in 1933, wrote: "Probably about 1920 the 
main stock areas of the native reserves had attained their optimum 
carrying capacity, and although fully stocked, were not overstocked. 
Since then the cattle population has, roughly speaking, doubled itself." 
Again of the Kamba reserve: 

Mr. Scott Little estimates that the reserve contains 190,000 cattle, with 57,000 
calves, though he estimates its grazing capacity at no more than 60,000 head. 
There are also 260,000 goats and 150,000 sheep. A journey through the area 
east and south of Machakos reveals that over large stretches of hillsides vegetation 
has been almost wholly removed. The soil has been eroded down to the subsoil, 
and its removal will continue at an ever-increasing rate. On less steep slopes 
and on better land vegetation stiU persists; and though the Wakamba are pri- 
marily a pastoral tribe, patches of cultivation are in evidence. But even there 
grazing has been so persistent that the ground is all beaten down into little stock 
paths and has become in turn open to erosion. 

I have been over this area and seen the hillsides bared down to the 
yellow, red, and purple hardpan, where within the memory of the 
headmen with whom we talked there had been useful grazing. 

A Basutoland report states: 

Overgrazing has so far failed to destroy the grazing on the lower levels, up to, 
say, 7,500 feet, but above that level the concentration of stock driven out from 
the lower levels has resulted in the replacement, over some hundreds of thousands 
of acres, of the grass by the almost inedible Chrysocoma, commonly known as 
"Bitter Karoo." 

Mr. Hobley, giving evidence about Tanganyika, said: "The native 
occupier, if space permits, moves on, leaving exhausted soil and desert 
behind him." Professor Stebbing has uttered strong warnings of the 
encroachment of the Sahara upon northern Nigeria, due to shifting 
cultivation and overstocking in the forest. Major Grogan put the 
matter brutally when he said before the Kenya Land Commission: 



SOIL EROSION — HALL 313 

"The African people have never estabhshed a symbiotic relationship 
with land. They are, in the strict scientific sense, parasites on the 
land, all of them;" and in another place he speaks of flying over central 
Africa and picking out the eroded areas by their color. 

These instances will suffice ; over a large part of Africa— the eastern 
side from the Abyssinian frontier down to the Cape, Uganda, and 
parts of Nigeria, everywhere indeed except in the tropical rain forest 
of the western seaboard and interior— conditions are such as render 
erosion by washing a danger. Under cultivation the humus of the 
soil rapidly becomes exhausted, the climate produces recurrent 
periods of drought broken by rainfalls of fierce intensity. You have 
further a native population practicing a destructive form of agricul- 
ture and keeping a vast uneconomic head of stock, including the 
devastating goat in large numbers; they are eating rapidly into such 
forest areas as are left open (pi. 2). Small wonder that famine is 
never far away from some of the tribes, that the major political issue 
between native and white man is the cry for more land. Yet even 
if there were more land to give, the day of reckoning would only be 
deferred, the new land would only be eaten up in its turn; the native 
must either change his methods or limit his numbers. Indeed the 
situation has even now gone so far that from time to time the Gov- 
ernment has to import food to save a tribe from starvation, and the 
problems of native unrest and land hunger begin to press on the white 
community. African soil was never rich nor presented that reserve 
of easily exploited fertility that has been the wealth of both North 
and South America ; it is also, as no other country, a reservoir of diseases 
of man, animals, and plants. Soil erosion has been developing for 
years without attracting very much notice, and has now reached the 
stage when the growth of the desert may speed up catastrophically. 

It is but recently that the dangers of erosion in Africa have come 
to be realized. When I was in Africa in 1929 I saw how contour 
cultivation and recuperative grassland was being introduced into the 
farming of the Cape Province, and the Drought Investigation Com- 
mission of 1923 had references to erosion. The problem of over- 
stocking was preeminently before me on the Kenya Agricultural 
Commission, but the widespread extent of erosion was only made 
evident in later reports, such as that of the Native Economic Com- 
mission of South Africa in 1932, the Basutoland Enquiry, and the 
Kenya Land Commission of 1933. The Basutoland report shows 
that the administration had begun to take measures for the regenera- 
tion of wasted areas, but now it is evident that all the African colonies 
have become erosion conscious, as may be seen from Sir Frank Stock- 
dale's report on his recent tour through Africa. Thanks to him, I 
shall be able to show you a number of photographs of the methods 
that are being adopted. 



314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Much yet remains to be done before the arrears of years of misuse 
of the soil can be repaired and before the native population can be 
educated to systems of farming which will maintain the fertility of 
the land. Not only have drastic changes in native custom to be 
brought about, but in many cases expenditure is called for which 
can hardly be found within the limited resources of the particular 
colony. 

The regeneration of wasted areas must begin with closing them 
for a time to grazing, so as to allow the return of natural vegetation; 
if the land has not been very badly denuded, recovery is rapid; but 
in some cases it may be necessary to introduce specially useful plants, 
like the stoloniferous grasses so characteristic of South Africa. A 
certain amount of minor engineering is needed to check run-offs and 
dongas by dams or plantations. Some of the photographs I have 
show how successful such measures have been at no great cost. 
Measures to deal with the invading weeds like Striga in central 
Africa or the Chrysocoma of the south are still lacldng. At the same 
time cultivators, both natives and white settlers, are being taught 
the virtues of contour plowing and planting, and of vegetation strips 
in cultivated land to break up run-off. 

Such measures, however, do not touch the major cause of erosion — 
overstocking. There legislative action is necessary to compel a 
reduction in the head of stock. The native chiefs giving evidence 
before me on the Kenya Agricultural Commission agreed that Gov- 
ernment regulations to this effect would be carried out, but that 
without an ordinance the chiefs themselves would be unable to 
enforce restriction. However, the drastic culling that is called for 
must be done by way of purchase, and since the animals which would 
first be drafted are practically valueless for food, one or more meat 
factories would be required to turn the carcasses into manure and 
then into successively better products as the quality of the culls 
improved. One such factory 'was in operation in Tanganyika, from 
the workmg of which one learned that the initial capital requirement 
is large and that in its early years the enterprise is not likely to pay 
its way. But a reduction in the numbers of cattle or sheep to one- 
half or so would not only relieve the pressure on the land, but would 
give the native owners some chance of improving quality both by 
selection and better feeding, whereas at present numbers alone are 
valued. Education should also proceed to induce the natives to use 
cattle economically for milk or meat and for traction, or at least to 
sell them for food. One cannot, however, get away from the fact 
that forcible limitation of the head of stock a man may hold is a 
grave interference, not only with tribal custom but also with the 
dignity of individuals. I am still attracted by the idea of a special 



SOIL EROSION — HALL 315 

token currency for the purchase of native livestock, something that 
might be made a visible display of wealth and status. 

Even more fundamental must be the education of the natives to 
adopt a conservative system of farming — a rotation that would 
include leguminous crops and so help the native dietary as well as 
restore nitrogen to the soil. Compost making is another method of 
maintaining fertility which is being taught to the natives. The 
African cannot increase, cannot even maintain, his present numbers 
unless he learns how to use his plot of land so that it will continuously 
produce food. Demonstrations have shown how it can be done, but 
it will need both a strengthening of the agricultural staff and years of 
effort before the improved practices are taken up. 

But it is difficult to speak temperately of the urgent need for effort 
in this direction on a large scale. Many of the tribes are on the verge 
of starvation, the desert is growing apace, and as the cropping or 
grazing area shrinks, the pressure upon it becomes greater and 
destruction proceeds at a compound-interest rate. 

The responsibility for action lies not only on the colonial govern- 
ments but on the British Government itself. It has declared itself 
trustee for the native populations; it must save them from them- 
selves. Other nations are demanding colonies in Africa as sources 
of raw materials and as openings for colonization, but as soon as one 
gets away from the few mineral areas, African land affords little 
opportunity of exploitation and will indeed only continue to exist 
productively if its overlords adopt and persist in a self-denying policy 




D a 



THE FUTURE OF PALEONTOLOGY 



By Joseph. A. Cushman 



In these days the man of science holds an enviable position. His 
outlook on the world in general, so far as his scientific point of view is 
concerned, is not dimmed by the terrors of war, by changing political 
trends, nor by recessions of the business world. True, all of these 
may limit his productivity or actually interfere with his work. Never- 
theless, he has a grasp on the laws of the universe which are unaffected 
by any of these changing conditions. He needs no appeal to a court, 
for the laws with which he deals are the eternal verities. So in the 
shifting sands of the human world and the ebb and flow of man-made 
tides he may feel sure of the ground on which his science is based, 
knowing that its laws will be operating when all these other temporary 
troubles are long forgotten. 

To the astronomer who deals with the whole universe and whose 
time basis is one of light-years, such trivialities as the rise and fall of 
dynasties or the wars of races on this small planet of ours are of little 
consequence when he looks out upon ordered worlds each true to its 
own pathway through space. So, too, other sciences are based upon 
less broad a field, but their vastness is such that one may at least 
temporarily broaden his outlook from the world about him and turn 
back the records of time to other worlds long passed away. 

To the paleontologist is given a rare privilege, for his is the steward- 
ship of the oldest book of records that we possess, the book which con- 
tains all that we know of the progress of life upon this planet of ours. 
True, the book has had very hard usage and is imperfect. Many of 
its pages are badly torn and blotted; others have later records written 
across a page of earlier ones, so that it is difficult to trace the written 
lines. Many of its pages are entirely missing. Nevertheless, this is 
the only record of the past life of the world and as such is beyond price. 

Given into his hands, it is the sacred duty of the paleontologist to 
study the pages with the utmost care, to translate the hidden meanings, 
to fill in to the best of his ability the blurred lines, and, wherever 
possible, to replace the missing pages. 

1 Address as retiring president of the Paleontological Society, 1937. Reprinted by permission from the 
Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, vol. 49, pp. 359-366, March l, 1938. 

317 



318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

In imagination at least, the paleontologist may review the wonder- 
ful pageant of the past life of this world of ours. His reviewing stand 
is placed on the ocean border high enough above the water so that he 
may have a clear view of its depths. Here pass before him all the 
marine creatures from the single-celled primitive animals to the 
starfish, the brachiopods, the bizarre forms of the trilobites, huge 
ammonites, and many other creeping and crawling animals. Then 
come strangely shaped fishes in the armor of medieval knights and 
other swimming forms so unlike any living today that they must be 
seen to be believed. Then, creeping out onto the land, which, while 
he has been fascinated by the marvels of the sea, has become covered 
by vegetation, come strange creations. They are leaving the teeming 
sea and venturing out to a new life upon the land. Soon he sees them 
developing varied forms, upon the surface and in the air as the first 
insects fly about the strange trees and plants of this primitive world. 
Later the reptiles develop and dominate land, sea, and air, with the 
huge winged Pterodactyls perhaps resembling flights of modern air- 
planes. The birds and mammals follow and, in turn, dominate air 
and land. Gradually, modern vegetation appears, and the world 
looks very much as it does today. The stage is set for the appearance 
of primitive man. As the animals and plants show their evolution, 
the paleontologist studying the early races of men becomes an anthro- 
pologist, and digging into his buried cities changes to an archeologist, 
and so to the historian. 

With all this pageantry of the past, the field for the present-day 
paleontologist, what of the future of the science? 

It may well follow three distinct but related fields: First, that of 
the paleontologist in his own realm; second, the relationships to the 
other sciences, particularly geology, where it may contribute much; 
and, third, as a practical aid to the development of man's economic 
life. Some suggestions at least will be given for all three of these 
fields. 

The base on which to build our knowledge of the animals and plants 
of the past must rest upon the remains that are left to us in the 
deposits of past ages. To make these available for the studies of 
others, the fossils must be collected, described, and illustrated. This 
is the chore work that must be done in detail, and eventually must 
cover the entire surface of the globe and the vertical section of the 
sedimentary rocks of all ages. In the last century and a half, great 
progress has been made along these lines, but immense areas of the 
earth are yet to be explored. These will fill in many details of the 
picture which are now lacking. In the future we may expect explora- 
tions and development ^vill render accessible to paleontologists rich 
collections from the unknown parts of Asia, Africa, the Americas, 
and Australia. These will not only add immensely to the known 



FUTUKE OF PALEONTOLOGY — CUSHMAN 319 

fossil faunas and floras of past ages, but will make possible a much 
greater clarity of vision in making the past live again. 

For all the great progress in the past, the paleontologist of the 
future should be especially trained and educated. Perhaps too often 
in the past paleontology has been merely a side issue, particularly as 
it is used by a geologist who has looked for fossils to give him a clue 
to the age of the formations with which he was working. The fossils 
meant simply marks or forms in the rocks, to which he attached names 
for future reference in correlation. 

As an ideal, the paleontologist of the future should be trained as a 
zoologist or botanist or both, so that he may be famiUar with the ani- 
mals and plants of the present day. With this background he will 
be ready to understand the relationship, structure, and development 
of the animals and plants whose remains he finds in the rocks. They 
will represent definite characters which will allow him to classify and 
deal with them in their true zoological or botanical relationships. 
With such a training, the future paleontologist will have full knowledge 
of types of plants or animals with which he works and can visualize 
the living forms from the fossil remains that he has before him. 

With greater ease of travel, and larger collections from all parts of 
the earth, the speciahst in any group will be able to consider it as a 
whole, trace its evolution throughout geologic time, and chart its 
migrations. Although faunal study of small areas will necessarily 
precede, we may look forward to the time when a comprehensive study 
of a group from all parts of the world will be possible and a much 
fuller understanding of its developments and relationships will be 
achieved than can be attained at present. As wider collections are 
made, many of the gaps that now exist will be filled in and the missing 
links in much of the evolutionary history of plants and animals wUl 
be discovered to make a complete whole. 

Although the biologist dealing with life processes gives us much 
information on the actual working of evolution, it is the paleontol- 
ogist who must, by a study of the records of the past, bring to light 
the pathways that evolution has taken up to the present. For the 
best realization of these, the paleontologist will collect not only the 
adult stages characteristic of the species but all the developmental 
stages possible as well, to give a complete series. 

Material for the study of the more detailed problems of evolution 
may be found in many surface outcrops, but complete sections, several 
hundreds of feet in length or even much longer, may be obtained by 
the use of cores. Those who have worked with the microfossils of 
such cores must have been aware of the changes that take place in a 
single species during the deposition represented by the core or that 
part of it in which the species occurs. The relationships of species 
and their derivation, one from another, by the incoming of new charac- 



320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

ters, may be very well seen in the close study of such cores. This line 
of attack on the problems of evolution will be more and more available 
to the paleontologist of the future. Core drilling for economic prob- 
lems is rapidly increasing, and several depositories already are avail- 
able for the preservation of selected cores. If additional cores for 
which there is no storage room could be sampled and washed so as to 
be stored in a smaller space, the microfossils at least would be available 
for future workers after exhaustion of the petroleum or other resources 
made core drilling no longer of economic interest in that particular 
region. It is to be hoped that many of the samples now in laboratories 
connected with petroleum companies may be preserved elsewhere 
when they are no longer of value to the company. Thus, the future 
worker may have available a treasure house of material which to 
duplicate would be an expensive undertaking. 

Similar cores of short length have recently been taken both in the 
Atlantic and in the Pacific Oceans by quite different methods and for 
purely scientific purposes. Through the study of their microfossils, 
much has already been learned of changes in conditions during Pleisto- 
cene times. Also, it will be possible by a continuation of such methods 
to learn much of the sediments and even of outcropping formations 
now deep in the oceans. In time, when methods shall have been 
developed for taking much longer cores, it will be possible to study 
the fossil content of areas otherwise entirely unavailable. The possi- 
bility of core study has much ahead for the future paleontologist. 

As material from cores should be preserved whenever possible, so 
outcrops, particularly of type localities from which many species have 
been described, might also be a matter of consideration for preserva- 
tion. A few localities, especially noteworthy for their vertebrate 
fossils, have been made into State parks or national monuments. It 
is possible that other localities or outcrops should be preserved in like 
manner. The famous Eocene locality at Grignon in France is now 
preserved and the fossils taken carefully, so that full use is made of 
them. Certain localities near State or other universities might be 
preserved in this way with little cost and be made a source of great 
scientific value to future paleontologists. 

A beginning has been made in a few museums to show to the public, 
groups representing fossil animals and plants in their probable rela- 
tionships when living. It would seem an excellent opportunity for 
making an educational contribution to the general public if more 
museums would take up this work. With modern methods of group 
presentation as shown in many museums, it should be possible to make 
groups to show some of the characteristic animals and plants of geo- 
logic periods in a series that would be of real interest, and make more 
alive the facts of paleontology and evolution. This should be a 
great field of opportunity for paleontologists of the future to recon- 



FUTURE OF PALEOKTOLOGY — CUSHMAN 321 

struct the life of earlier ages, so that it may become real to many 
interested, but nonscientific, persons to whom otherwise the fossil 
record would be an unopened book. 

Paleoecology is a fairly new word, but it stands for what should be 
an excellent field for the well-trained paleontologist of the future. 
The study of the environment in which the fossil animals and plants 
lived and their relationships to one another and to their surroundings 
is a fascinating one. The student of paleoecology must have a broad 
knowledge of the ecology of living plants and animals before he can 
begin to grasp the relationships of those of the past. It will be a 
test of the imagination, under control of what is already known, to 
make these fossil animals and plants live again in their own environ- 
ment, to explain their structural adaptations and their interrelation- 
ships with one another. This will give to the future worker data for 
the explanation of the rapid extinction of species, and even whole 
faunas, and the appearance of others to take their places. The many 
unusual forms, so unlike those of today, may be found to be equally 
well fitted to special conditions very unlike our own. 

The study of environmental conditions will probably help to explain 
the great migrations of animals that have taken place in past geologic 
ages whose paths are only obscure as yet. The future collections of 
Africa and Asia will undoubtedly give us detailed information of the 
path of migration of those elements of the Miocene and Recent faunas 
of Australia that are so closely allied to those of the Eocene of the 
Paris Basin and to the Oligocene of the Gulf Coastal region of the 
United States, to cite a single example. 

From a study of these migrations and distributions, decided aid 
should be given toward the study of paleogeography. Knowledge 
of the distribution of animals and plants is of great value in deter- 
mining the distribution of land and water areas in past ages. When 
the ecologic factors are better known, it will be possible to give more 
definitely the depth of water and relative direction of shore lines 
from any particular area, and the distribution of fossil pelagic for- 
aminifera may give a clue to the extent and direction of ocean currents 
of the past. 

In the field where paleontology has been most useful, that of an 
aid to the stratigraphic geologist, the future will add much in detail 
to what is already known. More cooperative work will be done to 
give illustrated works of entire faunas of key beds so that all the 
elements of the fauna will appear in a single volume or a series of 
volumes instead of having the information scattered as it is today. 
Such a series would be of inestimable value to the geologist as well 
as the paleontologist, and it is not too early to plan for the cooperative 
effort to produce such works. It wiU take the earnest and combined 
efforts of many workers to make possible such standard works, but 



322 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

it will help greatly to lessen the confusion that arises when formations 
are encountered, and the scattered or unavailable literature is not 
at hand for aid in placing them in proper position in the section. 

Efforts should be gradually made to correlate more closely the 
faunas occurring under different ecologic conditions but of contem- 
poraneous age. The faunas of shallow littoral waters are usually 
very different from those of even moderately deeper water. Where 
beds cannot be traced over long distances, and changes in sediments 
occur, due to differences in depth, correlation is difficult. The 
student of paleoecology should find studies along this line fascinating 
to himself and the results very useful to the geologist and stratig- 
raplier. It is very probable that some of the present-day contro- 
versies over the relative ages of different beds might be easily and 
definitely settled if such ecologic factors were better known. There 
are examples in our sections where fossUs of one group of animals 
seem to indicate a different relationship than those shown by other 
animal groups. A closer cooperation of workers on different zoologic 
divisions will probably show that one group was more rapidly changing 
under the particular environmental conditions, and that, under 
certain conditions, greater weight should be given to one group than 
to another. Very much is to be learned by the paleontologist of the 
future along these and related lines. 

In the realm of economic geology, paleontology, especially micro- 
paleontology, has demonstrated great usefulness. Particularly in 
petroleum discovery and recovery, the microfossils have been of 
inestimable value. Their usefulness has been due to their immense 
numbers, especially the foraminifera, and the fact that their small 
size allows them to be recovered unharmed by the process of drilling. 
The rapid changes in characters in the foraminifera and the large 
number of species usually present in a relatively small sample make 
them especially valuable for correlation purposes. The use of micro- 
fossils for correlation is already widespread in the search for oil. 
Shallow core drilling to determine subsurface structures is now used to 
a great extent. Where no surface outcrops allow the field geologist 
a clue to what is beneath, this method opens up a relatively inex- 
pensive method of revealing subsurface structures. 

The value of such work depends upon the extent to which the micro- 
faunas of the beds of the section are laiown. Particularly where sub- 
surface faulting must be accurately located as in some of the areas of 
Texas, the point of change of faunas must be recognized mthin very 
narrow limits. Keen discrimination and an intimate knowledge of the 
various faunas are necessary for success in this rapidly growing field. 
A large part of this information, and the material upon which it is 
based, is not generally available, but is kept in the files of different 
companies who are operating in these fields. Such information should 



FUTURE OF PALEONTOLOGY — CUSHMAN 323 

be preserved, so that the scientific results will not be lost, and have to 
be later obtained with much effort. Cooperation between the scien- 
tific staffs of various oil companies is much more in evidence than it 
was even a few years ago. If this scattered information could be 
gathered together and gradually published, with the necessary illus- 
trations, it would be of immense help to all those seeking data along this 
same line. If some organization connected with petroleum work 
could sponsor such a program of cooperative studies, the results would 
be of immense practical value. 

Much of the future work and the rapidity of progress in paleon- 
tology, as in all other lines of human endeavor, depends greatly upon 
organization and cooperation. In this way, waste of effort through 
unnecessary duplication will be avoided. The individual worker in 
his chosen field will feel the stimulation that results from his knowing 
that what he does is part of a whole which he himself can see in its 
entirety. 

Under capable leadership, it will be possible to correlate various 
groups of workers so that the fossils of the various parts of the geologic 
time scale will be illustrated, described, and their distributions, ecology, 
and relationships known in a series of well-thought-out volumes, which, 
although they will be added to as progress continues, should be, never- 
theless, sufiiciently exhaustive so as to be standard works for a long 
while to come. 

An added service that has been attempted on a small scale is the 
distribution of collections of fossils either as duplicates or in the way 
of casts. This work has been done to some degree by the United 
States National Museum, so that casts or duphcates are available 
for many of the elements of Old- World faunas for comparison with 
our own. From type localities, as already mentioned, collections 
could be made which would be of great value in exchanging with other 
institutions. Individuals, especially those working with microfossils, 
can send paratypes of their species to widely scattered museums, or 
to other workers, who could reciprocate and make a first-hand knowl- 
edge of their material possible. 

With many of the older species, poorly illustrated and inadequately 
described as they often were, an attempt should be made to refigure 
and redescribe the species from the actual type specimens where they 
are still extant. Much confusion would be eliminated by this relatively 
simple undertaking. 

It is to be hoped that many similar plans to carry on the future 
work of paleontology will suggest themselves to the workers in this 
science. Progress will continue to be made, but it will be more 
rapid and more sure if greater cooperation among paleontologists can 

114728—39—22 



324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN" INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

be assured and if better methods can be found for publishing their 
works and of making these works more available. 

To these young men and women who are hesitating in the choice 
of a future career, that of the research worker is here recommended 
for consideration. It means a lifetime of devotion to a cause which 
probably will bring neither fame nor fortune. One who chooses it 
must find most of its rewards within liimself. He must leave the 
easy highways of the valley and be prepared to climb, first, the 
winding mountain roads that others before him have graded and made 
easy, then the upper mountain trails with occasional vistas that will 
give him a promise of what is ahead if he continues to climb. Finally, 
he will come out onto the bare, wind-swept, rock ledges above the 
timber line, marked only by rock cairns of those who have ventured 
before liim. The broadened view may hold him for a time, but he 
will surely feel the urge to press on to the eternal snows of the moun- 
tain peak ahead. There, he will find no trail to guide him, and he 
must push on through the fresh snow, leaving behind footprints for 
others to follow if they will. He knows well that he will never reach 
the summit, but the urge to go forward is all-compelling. When he 
has gone on to the limit of his strength and sinks down on the snow- 
fields, he will feel within him, whether the world says "Well done" 
or not, that he has been true to the inner urge of his own soul and his 
reward is in the laiowledge that he has carried the standard of science 
a little further into the unknown. 



THE METEOROLOGY OF GREAT FLOODS IN THE EASTERN 

UNITED STATES ' 



By Charles F. Brooks and Alfred H. Thiessen 



During January 1937 a standing high-pressure area in the south- 
western North Atlantic sent steamy tropical air into the United 
States day after day, which, on meeting a persistent flow of polar 
air in a nearly stationary southwest-northeast belt, precipitated 
phenomenal rainfalls. Locally exceeding 20 inches, the rains ex- 
tended across the lower Mississippi and almost simultaneously over 
the entire Ohio Basin. Dammed by the flooded lower Mississippi, 
the Ohio River became a lake, 15 miles wide in some places, and nearly 
10 feet above the highest stages previously known. All the river 
cities, except Cairo, were partially submerged; one-sixth of Cincinnati 
was under water, one-half of Evansville, and more of Louisville. 
The inundation of Louisville drowned several persons and caused an 
estimated monetary loss of $200,000,000: that the loss of life was 
not very much greater was owing to the extraordinary service of the 
local radio station WHAS. In 5 days this station broadcast 16,500 
separate appeals for help. The calls were heard on sound trucks 
at the shore and on radio-equipped boats that were thus able to effect 
the removal of at least 58,000 persons from their flooded homes.^ 
The January rainfall at Louisville was 18.8 inches, of which 10.31 
fell in the 5-day period January 20-24. The death toll for the whole 
flood was 137, as compiled by the American Red Cross. ^ The number 
injured was 544; but 16,445 individuals had to be hospitalized. Over 
the 12,721 square miles affected, 1,495,287 people were directly sub- 
jected to the flood, and 1,062,661 of these were completely dependent 
on the Red Cross for every primary necessity of life; 155,134 families 
required rescue from the flood, transportation to dry ground, and 
•immediate food and shelter; they were taken care of in 1,575 refugee 
centers and tent cities; 73,817 other families required food and 
clothing. Financial assistance in rehabilitation was later required 

' Reprinted by permission, with additions and revisions, from The Geographical Review, vol. 27, No. 2, 
April 1937, with some substitutions and addenda by the authors. The assistance of ofHcials of the U. S. 
Weather Bureau and the American Red Cross in supplying helpful information is gratefully acknowledged. 

• Bauman, Wm., Narrative of a flood refugee; Carleton, H. B., A boatman's story, Dixiana, vol. 1, pp. 3-17, 
1937; and Breaux, Q. A., in Filson Club Hist. Quart., April 1937. 

» The Ohio-Mississippi Valley flood disaster of 1937, report of relief operations of the American Red Cross. 
ARC 977, 252 pp., illus., bibliog., Washington, D. C, 1938. 

325 



326 ANNUAI. EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

by 97,247 of these families. Private contributions of cash and 
supplies to the American Ked Cross totalled $28,000,000; while the 
Federal Government spent $13,000,000 and loaned $7,000,000. A 
conservative estimate of the flood cost is $417,000,000, not including 
the value of some 300,000,000 tons of top soil that the Soil Conserva- 
tion Service estimates was carried away from the Ohio watershed. 
The flood of 1937 must be considered the greatest American flood on 
record.* 

This unprecedented flood on the Ohio and lower Mississippi Rivers, 
coming so soon after the extraordinary floods of March-AprU 1936 
in the middle and north Atlantic States, compels an examination of 
the relation of floods to weather in an effort to solve or mitigate their 
menace. What are the meteorological features of previous great 
floods, such as those of 1913, 1922, and 1927 in the Mississippi Basin; 
of still earlier general floods, such as those of 1882, 1889, 1903; of the 
less widespread but remarkable overflows that followed excessive 
rains in July 1935, November 1927, July 1916, and June 1915? WTiat 
flood-control measures do meteorological considerations most favor? 
And are flooding rains predictable? 

* Swenson, Bennett, The Ohio and Mississippi River floods of January- February 1937, Monthly Weather 
Rev., Suppl. 37, 55 pp., 30 figs., 1938. See also, Devereaux, W. C, The Ohio River flood of 1937, Bull. 
Amer. Meteorol. Soc, vol. 19, pp. 330-333, 1938. The flood, chiefly from the standpoint of water supply 
and sanitation, is extensively discussed in the Journ. Amer. Water Works Assoc, pp. 1230-1307, Sept. 1937. 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 



327 



































<o 3 a fl 3 





& ^ 


a> 


<D C 


0) a> 0) « 


b ■s 


tj 




is 





^ 


is 


^^ 


^ ^ ^ ^ 


p ^ 


^ 


V, . . 







C) 


--• 


Ttl 


C-l 


ai 00 (M CO 


CD r^ 







^ 


oSaiQ nsg 


CO 

1 


+ 1 


T 


■-1 M 

+ 1 


rH 1 1 CO 

1 ' ' + 


+ + 


1 




s 

3 






















00 


"-1 


10 


-< 


0(M 


10 PO --. rt 


-d" 





0; 


Bqetno 


«3 
+ 


4- 


+ 


1 


1 + 


CO .- rH 1 
+ 1 + + 


+ + 



1 


c 
o 

a 


i 






















00 


<o 


tt> 


IM 


o>t~ 


CO r-( -1< •* 


CO 





9H!AqSBM 


+ 


1 


+ 


7 


T' 


r-l 1 CO ^ ^ rf 
+ ' + + + + 


CO 

+ 










■^ 




CO r-H 






CO 


•3 




(soqonn 











M 


oo 


^00 ^ 






Bpnnijaa jb ajnssojj 


+ 


1 


1 


+ I++++ + + + 


+ 




s 

M. 





a 
c 


s 

1 


■a 

M 

C 


T1 


1 


c 


.9 « i 
i ^ : 

cq ! 
ft -" : 


^ i 

2 .s 

" If 

' 3.!« 


3 
» 

3 





1 

s 



§ 


g.asgi§S2^5^ . -f a.ai « 




a 

a 

■So 




« 


w 


^ 





CC 


h4<^ H^ W <1 2 


<) 






r-H 


^ 


r* 





COCN 


CO CO "O •* 


>OIO 


-i' 


•9_ 


^BPt 


^ 


00 


« 


t-- 


10 C- 


05 CO 00 05 


TO M-co 


■* 


2 B 






./ 


eo 


C-. 


Of 


CO <-■ *o I-- 


f- -a- CO 


cs 




Si£Bp S 


; 






„ 






^ t^c4 


^ 




1 






^^ 








»-< 








I, 


r/1 


(N -I 




CO OC-1 


,_( 


Siiep 01 












r-< -ai CO ai 


n< odc= 


r>: 


d £ 










'—' 












.— t 




to 


f— t 


01 ■* 


CO Tl* oc »^ 


■* oos 


f-4 


qinora i 


00 




















•— ' 












—1 ^ (M 








+ 








+ 








a 



OOO'OOO'IJ ui aSBtUBa 





0= 


+ 




M 



0(N 


1- CO ->< o 


S 2 


t^ 


g 










^ 








•Tt* 








s 








CI 


r. 




















Q 


sqiB9a 




01 




t>- 






■* 








, 












' 










1 












' C/5 




• 


(S3[ini ejc 


nbs) pa3J9inqns cajy 


i 












co" 1 co" 




i 






I 




CO 


CO 






00 I^ 




(M 


M 


(}9aj E^) gjnqsJioiA 


[ 




CO 


t- 






ci <-i n 







loo's 




























CO 


r- 








1 00 


•0 


.EPo« 

■^ C ID 
? 03 


(?93J 0{') OJIBO 









2 






CO 06 CO 


1 ci 


o> 


















1 CC 




(539/ 29) HBauronio 














• t~: t~: 


1 00 


06 


g-" 






























^_( 




cj 00 r- 


»o 


f^ 


90Bld ?SJOA\^ 


m 








t><M 


,n2^ CO 


^ s 


?; 








































1 cs3 

i -as > 

« S ^ 

3 rt "3 


e .2^ 


; 




■0 

i 
1 


a 
a 


0: 

c 
c 


5 


c 

c 

c 


C 
> 


c 


■I 

c 




a a> ' 
a> >" 1 

' ^ is i 

Q « ; 

^a>^3"gs 

3^ fe s'3'ag; 

a3^;|gw3 




s 








t 


' SS 


:^i^ l^s| 






"z 




M 


Q 


Mis 


t/J M !Z M p 


QQ ^ 


.3 




















C3 1 






t-i 














































3 I 










5 
.3 


>, 


1 

a 

c 




a 


a 
> 


'«c 


6 

i 


•n 1 


1 CO 
1 ^ 


S 






a 




1 >. 


t 






2 ii 


3 

C 










r^ 


s 


> 


h! 


r 


g 




p ->; ^ 


H> («5 




Hi 



328 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

CAUSES OF THE GREAT FLOODS 

Two elements are always involved in the production of a great 
flood in the eastern United States: a rapid and continuing flow of 
moist tropical air into the country and a frequent or persistent eleva- 
tion of this tropical current by a colder air mass over the same region. 

Such a wind situation depends on a persistent high-pressure area 
in the western Atlantic and another high over the central or northern 
interior of the United States or farther west. The Atlantic high pushes 
air from the tropical Atlantic northwestward, northward, or north- 
eastward, while the western high pushes the polar air southeastward, 
southward, or southwestward. The low pressure trough between the 
highs is marked by one or more moving centers. Its position varies 
in accordance with the relative strengths and locations of the two highs 
from day to day. The western high or an offshoot from it often moves 
eastward; thence it may pass out to sea, to strengthen the Atlantic 
high and, consequently, the landward flow of tropical air. This is 
what happened January 20 to 24, 1937. Along the front between the 
polar and the tropical air masses continuous, sometimes violent, ascent 
of the warmer current is in progress. Either the tropical air is the 
aggressor (warm front) or the polar air is making gains (cold front). 
In either event, the tropical air is forced upward, though usually with 
less violence on the warm front than on the cold. This is why it rains. 

When moist tropical air is forced to rise, it expands in the lower 
pressure aloft and cools at such a rate that in an ascent of 2 miles 
three-quarters of its vapor will be precipitated. If such air, originally 
nearly saturated at 77° F. (25° C.) over the Caribbean Sea, has been 
chilled over land in middle latitudes to 68° F. (20° C), a layer of such 
air 2 miles (3.2 km) thick would contain about 80,000 tons of water 
vapor over each square mile of surface. If it were forced upward over 
a cold air mass or by convergence to a height of 2 miles, some 60,000 
tons of its vapor would be precipitated, or the equivalent of 0.8 inch 
(2 cm) of rain. Since the slope of the upper surface of the cold air 
mass is commonly only 1 or 2 percent, the lifting of the tropical 
air mass by 2 miles would require the passage of 100 or 200 miles of 
wind, which at a velocity of only 4 to 8 miles an hour would complete 
the entire elevation in 1 day. Since the advance of a tropical air 
mass commonly proceeds at 30 to 40 miles an hour, it is easy to see 
how rains of several inches in 1 day may fall when a tropical air mass 
mounts a polar one. The heaviest fall occurs when the polar front is 
standing or advancing under the tropical air mass. 

The weather preceding any flood is important in its conditioning 
of the watershed as regards run-off. If the weather has been rainy 
before the heavy continuous rains that make the flood and the ground 
has become soaked, run-off naturally is favored. With well-frozen 
ground a like condition exists. 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 329 

The run-off that produces great floods of the Mississippi is between 
25 and 30 percent of the rainfall over the entire drainage area, which, 
however, includes semiarid lands/ In Tennessee the average run-off 
is estimated as 45 percent.^ 

The current weather conditions tending to make floods are con- 
tinuously heavy rains and temperatures above freezing. Freezing 
during the night is a flood deterrent. Warm rains and high tempera- 
tures with strong winds melt the layer of snow if there is any; and 
rain and snow water run off together. An old snow cover is so dense, 
however, that much more time is required to remove it than freshly 
fallen snow, the more so if it lies in the shelter of a forest. Ten inches 
of rainfall in a day or two will produce a flood anywhere and at any 
time in the eastern United States. Five inches wfll suffice if the ground 
is bare or lightly snow-covered and already saturated or frozen. 
Under such conditions 60 to 100 percent of the water may run off into 
the streams. The Muskingum River (Ohio) flood-control plan is 
based on a hypothetical 10 inches of rain in 5 days on frozen ground 
with a 90 percent run-off. 

On the other hand, dense vegetation and a dry soil or a deep snow 
cover on unfrozen ground may wholly absorb 5 or more inches of 
rainfall. Thus in March 1936, in experimental plots in the upper 
Susquehanna drainage, while 60 percent of a 5-uich rainfall over 
several days ran off of open cultivated fields that were frozen, none 
came from the unfrozen forest near by ; and at the Arnot Soil Conser- 
vation Experiment Station in Schuyler County, N. Y., while a run-off 
of 7.9 inches, including melted snow, came from frozen, open fields 
after 6.4 inches of rainfall, March 10-19, 1936, only 0.1 inch came 
from a beech-maple forest plot, where 12 inches of snow remained 
unmelted after the snow had disappeared in the open.^ Of the 27 
inches of rainfall causing the great flood of the Yazoo River, Miss., 
in 1931-32, 62 percent ran off from cultivated fields, 54 percent from 
abandoned fields, 2 percent from scrub oak, and 0.5 percent from 
undisturbed oak forest.^ The Soil Conservation Service reported 
that 8 inches or 95 percent ran off of plowed land in Ohio in the heavy- 
rains of January 1937, but only 2 inches from comparable areas under 
grass and trees.^ 

» Frankenflcld, H. C, and others: The spring floods of 1922, Monthly Weather Rev., Suppl. No. 22, pp. 
7-8, 1922; idem; The floods of 1927 in the Mississippi Basin, ibid., Suppl. No. 29, p. 31, 1927. 

« Forests in flood control. Supplemental Rep. to Committee on Flood Control, House of Repr., 74th 
Congr., 2nd Sess., on H. R. 12517, p. 4, Washington, 1936. 

' Ibid., p. 6. 

« Ibid., pp. 3 and 51-59. 

« For other data on storm-rain run-oS, see Hoyt, W. G., and others. Studies of relations of rainfall and 
run-off in the United States, U. S. Geol. Surv. Water-Supply Paper, 722, csp. tables 30, 33, 36, 39, 42, 45, 48, 
51; Washington, 1936. 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

SEASONS OF GREAT FLOODS 

It is no accident that great floods occur only in winter or spring, 
even though the melting of accumulated snow is usually a minor or 
negligible factor. Summer and autumn rains in the eastern United 
States may be as great as those of winter and spring and are usually 
more intense, that is, the rate of fall is more rapid. There is so much 
more vapor in the air that strong general storms are not required for 
the production of excessive rains, and when a hurricane puts the vapor 
through the cyclonic wringer at high speed the rains exceed any that 
can be produced in winter. Fortunately, however, there is in the 
active vegetation of the warm season an effective intercepter of rain, 
a mechanical hindrance to run-off, and a rapid user of ground water. 
Hardwoods in Wisconsin when in leaf intercepted 25 percent of the 
rainfall but when dormant only 16 percent;^" but this difference of 
9 percent of the rainfall is but a small part of the total change in run-off 
from summer to winter for the same rainfalls. Besides the several 
effects of vegetation, evaporation from the ground is greater in summer. 
A comparison of run-off with rainfall at KJnoxville, Tenn.," shows an 
average run-off for 1900-23 of only 28 percent in summer and 30 
percent in autumn, whereas in the 3 months January to March it 
was 64 percent. Even in summer months with 7 to 12.5 inches of 
ramfall the run-off was only 25 to 37 percent. The run-off of 4. 00 
inches from the 10.89 inches of rainfall in the hurricane flood of July 
1916, and that of 4.38 inches from the 12.52 inches of rainfall in August 
1901, did not equal the 4.22 and 4.54-inch run-offs from the 7.00 and 
7.10-inch rainfalls of the March floods of 1922 and 1913. To produce 
important floods in summer, monthly rains well in excess of 10 inches 
are required, whereas half as much will sufiice in winter. Summer 
rains, in general, are spottier than winter ones, and excessive do^vn- 
pours are more restricted in area than ordinary heavy rains; so sum- 
mer floods are usually more local and of shorter duration than winter 
ones. In the cold season the low evaporation permits the ground to 
stay wet for a long time after a rain, and a freezing of the ground may 
stop percolation. Before the rivers have carried away the water from 
one general rainstorm another may occur and add to the burden. 

THE OHIO-MISSISSIPPI FLOOD OF JANUARY-FEBRUARY 1937 

These general observations may now be examined in the specific 
terms of the Ohio-Mississippi flood of January-February 1937. In 
the eastern United States northwesterly or northerly winds normally 
prevail in winter, pushed from the high pressure formed by air accumu- 

'• Ibid., p. 4. Cf. also Baldwin, H. I., and Brooks, C. F., Forests and floods in New Hampshire, New 
England Regional Planning Commission, Publ. No. 47, pp. 5-9, Boston, 1936. 

>» Voorhees, J. F., A preliminary study of effective rainfall, Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 53, pp. 63-65, 
1025. 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 



331 



lated over the cold continent toward the low pressure over the warm 
waters of the Gulf Stream and beyond. Occasionally, however, the 
semipermanent high-pressure area of the subtropical Atlantic, which 
is usually some distance east of North America, expands and builds 
up westward into the Bermuda region. This happened in December 
1936, starting, after a cold November, a most remarkably mild and 
wet winter for the eastern part of the country. Bermuda pressures 
were only moderately high in the first 3 weeks of December, but 
from the 22d of that month until the 29th of January the morning 
pressures did not fall below 30.20 inches. The mean for January was 
30.32 inches, in place of the 29.96-inch normal. Pressures must have 
been higher farther east, for the wmd at Bermuda was prevailingly 
southeast to south. 

Why the high formed and stayed in the southwestern North Atlantic 
is unknown. 




MEAN TEMPERATURE 
DEPARTURE (F°t V 

Jan. 19 -Jan 26, 1937 
.... t ^^y-"-!' 



Figure 1.— The departure of mean temperatures from the normal for the week ending 7:30 a. m., January 26, 
1937. (From Weekly Weather and Crop Bull., January 26, 1937.) The shaded area shows excess tem- 
perature (F.°); the unshaded area, deficiency; the dotted line, the southern limit of freezing weather. 

To favor high pressure at Bermuda, one should expect sea tempera- 
tures to have been lower than usual there and higher than is common 
farther east,^^ though it would hardly seem possible that even the 
greatest sea temperature departures could account for the pressure 
anomaly. The actual values of sea temperature, however, showed 
departures similar to those of the air temperature, and, therefore, 
were adverse rather than favorable to the westward extension and 
intensification of the Azores-Bermuda high. The mean sea-surface 
temperatures for December, January, and February about Bermuda 
were 0.5, 3.4 and 0.5° F. above the average of the 20 years, 1912 to 

" Cf. Humphreys, W. J.: Why some winters are warm and others cold in the Eastern United States, 
Monthly Weather Review, vol. 42, pp. 672-675, 1914. For a case the reverse of 1937 conditions see Brooks, 
O. F., The "old-fashioned" winter of 1917-18, Geogr. Keview, vol. 5, pp. 405-414, 1918. 



332 



ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



1931, as compiled by the United States Weather Bureau. The sea 
temperatures in the general longitude of the Azores and latitude of 
Bermuda, on the other hand, were 1.7, 1.0 and 2.6° F. below the nor- 
mals for those 3 months. 

In accordance with the pressure gradients on the south and west 
of this standing Bermuda high, great tropical air masses moved day 
after day over the hot waters of low latitudes westward and north- 
westward toward the United States. Passing the length of the 
Caribbean Sea, they turned northward into the Gulf of Mexico and 
entered the continent nearly saturated with water vapor to a height 
of 2 kilometers or more. Flooding rains were inevitable. The ques- 
tion was, where? The Arctic held the answer. 

The major interzonal exchanges of air take place in alternating 
bands of considerable width. In January 1937, there was a northward 




Figure 2.— The depth of snow on the ground, 8 p. m., January 11, 1937. (From Weekly Weather and 

Crop Bull., January 12, 1937.) 

current of tropical air occupying a band about 2,000 miles wide from 
somewhere east of Bermuda to a short distance west of the Mississippi 
Eiver. Its western boundary is strikingly suggested by the sharp 
gradient between the large positive temperature departures east of 
the Mississippi and the large negative ones to the west (fig. 1). From 
the plains to the Pacific coast and beyond a southward current of 
polar air prevailed occupying a band also about 2,000 miles wide. 

The chilling and shrinkage of air continuously in progress in the 
polar regions in winter leads to an accumulation of air that must dis- 
charge toward the lightened pressures of middle latitudes. The loci 
of chief upbuilding of polar air masses vary somewhat from year to 
year, apparently in relation both to the distribution of cold surfaces, 
namely ice-covered sea and snow-covered land, and to the proximity 
of warm surfaces, for the expanded air over warm surfaces readily 
overflows and feeds the accumulating cold air masses. 



V 



MM«HMM«aB>*<*' 




FiauBKf 3-5.— vVeatlier tunps fur 8 p. tii., January 14, January 21, and January ]'iGUnE3 8-8.— Kainfall ioexoauof 1 Indi 
24, 1937. rcspoctively. (Courtcay U. 8, Weather Bureau.) In the 24 hours endlDg at 8 a. m„ 7Mb 

Meridian Time,OD January i&,laQuary 
lH728°-39 (Face p, 333) 22, aud January 2A, 1937, respectively. 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 333 

Furthermore, the channels through which the discharges take place 
tend to be maintained for weeks or months. This seems partly to be 
owing to the locations of the accumulation areas but is also the result 
of conditions favoring the transport of cold air without too much 
warming en route. The first outbreaks of polar air lay down a carpet 
of snow, which thereafter neither becomes warm itself nor permits 
much heat from the ground to reach the top of the snow blanket; 
portions of the polar air masses continuing over the snow are less 
warmed than if they passed over bare ground ; pressure over the snow- 
covered regions continues high ; and further progress of the cold mass 
is facilitated. 

The Arctic outpourings in the winter of 1936-37 established a 
favoring lane southward through the western half of North America 
and, with few interruptions, dominated this region, continuing drought 
on the Great Plains, elevating Pacific air to lay down deep snows in 
the far West, and freezing the oranges of southern California. 

A heavy snow cover became established in the upper Mississippi 
Valley and upper Lakes region, where the eastern margin of the polar 
air mass frequently elevated the much-chilled western margin of the 
tropical air mass. This snow-covered region, like that over the western 
plateau, became a secondary booster of polar air masses, strengthening 
them for combat along the tropical front to the southeast (fig. 2) . 

The weather maps for January 14, 21, and 24, when the heaviest 
rains were in progress, show the principal fronts and trough of low 
pressure between the Bermuda and northern highs (figs. 3-5). The 
weather map of January 14 (fig. 3) indicates in typical form the 
Atlantic high and another high over the eastern slope of the Rockies. 
A cold front extends in a general northeast-southwest direction and 
lies just west of the Appalachians. It moved slowly from the morning 
of the 14th to the evening of the 15th. West of the frontal line was 
polar Pacific air, and east was tropical air. Heavy rains fell in a 
narrow belt extending from Lake Erie in a southwesterly direction to 
A.rkansas. 

The succession of formations from January 14 to 25 presents most 
interesting examples of frontal interactions, as indicated in some 
measure by the successive daily positions of the tropical front, shown 
in figure 10. Table 2 shows the daily rainfalls at selected stations, as 
published on the Washington weather maps. 



334 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



6 KILOMETERS 



SauftS^ Marie 

MICH. 



Nashville 

TENN. 

■I- 



Pensacola Miami 
FLA. FLA. 
4 1 




FiatiEE 9.— Cross-section of air masses and fronts, north to south, at 8 a. m., January 22, 1937. (Courtesy 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.) Warm and cold fronts shown by conventional symbols; Npp, 
modified polar Pacific air; Pc, polar continental air; To, tropical Qulf air; Ta, tropical superior air. 

Table 2. — Wind Directions and Daily Rainfalls in the Ohio and Lower Mississippi 

Valleys, January 1987 
[In inches, during 24 hours ending at 8 a. m., 75th Meridian Time] 



Day 


Little 
Rock, Ark. 


Meridian, 

Miss. 


Memphis, 
Tenn. 


Nashville, 
Tenn. 


Cairo, 
111. 


Evans- 
ville, Ind. 


Louisville, 


Cincin- 
nati, Ohio 


14 


S...0.04 
N...1.00 
E.._0.00 
S...0.14 
NW2.00 
E...0.O0 
S...0. 14 
E...4.36 
N...2.32 
NE.1.26 
N...0.01 
N.-.0.84 


S...0.01 
W..1.50 
NE.0.00 
S...0.10 


S...0.00 
NW 0. 86 
E...0.00 
E..-0.30 
NW 2. 39 
NE.0.00 
S...1.56 
E...1.52 
N...3.24 
N...0.78 
E...2.08 
N...0.96 


S.._0.01 
NW1.02 
NE.0.00 
SE..0.54 
W..2.28 
NE.0.28 
E...2.32 
NE.0.48 
NE.0.72 
N...1.86 
SE..0. 18 
NW0.46 


S...0.50 
NW 1. 46 
N...0.00 
S...0.14 
N...1.54 
NE.0.00 
SE..0.12 
N...2.92 
N...2.06 
N...1.36 
E...0. 52 
SW.0.90 


SW.0.70 
NW 2. 52 
NE.0.00 
S...0.12 
NW 1. 70 
NE.0.00 
E...0.40 
N...2.78 
N...1.52 
N...0.80 
NE.0.46 
W..1.36 


S...0.28 
W..2.52 
E...0.00 
SE..0.38 
NW 1. 54 
NE.0.00 
SE..0.14 
E...2.48 
N...3.34 
N-..1.22 
NE.0.44 
NW 2. 66 


SW..0.58 


15 


NAV .2. 08 


16... .- 


NW.0.00 


17 


S 0.02 


18 . 


SW..1.78 


19 


E...2.08 
S...2.24 
S...0.02 
S...0.00 
NW0.02 
SE..1.24 
N...2.32 


NE..0.01 


20 


SE...0.04 


21 


W...1.98 


22 


N...-2.00 


23... 


NE..0.66 


24 


NE..0.16 


25 


W...2.38 






14-25 


N..12.11 


S.>.9.53 


E..13.69 


NE 10. 15 


N..11.52 


N..12.36 


Var 15.00 


NE.11.69 



Altlioiigli heavy rains occurred early in the month, it was not until 
the 14th that excessive precipitation fell over the Ohio basin. This 
precipitation came in advance of a slowly moving cold front, which by 
the 15th had pushed eastward to the crest of the Appalachians and so 
completed a considerable lifting of a large body of moist tropical air. 
A day of fair weather with northwest to north winds ensued (see 
table 2); but by the 17th the tropical wind had again established 
itself over the region. Another cold front soon lifted this tropical 
wind and squeezed it against the Appalachians again, producing 
heavy rain on the 17th and 18th, followed by northwest winds and 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 



335 



fair weather for a day. Owing apparently to the major thrust of 
polar air into low latitudes along the eastern seaboard of the United 
States, a large return of tropical air on the 20th brought renewed heavy 
precipitation, which continued in the form of instability showers, even 
thunderstorm rains, until the 24th. (Figure 9 is a north-south cross- 
section of the air masses, Jan. 22.) The rainfall in tliis 5-day period 
was of the order of 10 inches in a narrow central belt from Louisville 
to Little Rock. The day of greatest rainfall in the Ohio Valley was 
the 21st (see fig. 7). The winds at the surface were mostly northerly 
during these heavy rains; the tropical front was to the south. The 
temperatures of this remarkable week are shown in figure 1. The 
rainfall for January 1-25, half to two-thirds of which fell in the 5 




Figure 10.— Successive daily positions (8 a. m.) of Figure 11.— Rainfall in the Ohio and Lower Missis- 

the front between tropical and polar air masses sippi basins between January 1 and 25, 1937. 

from January 14 to 2.'i, 1937. (From U. S. Weather (Courte.sy U. S. Weather Bureau.) 
Bureau Ms. Map,<!.) 

days, January 20-25, is shown in figure 11, J. B. Kincer computed 
that in the belt of heaviest rainfall about 100 miles wide and 550 miles 
long the 16 inches of rainfall amounted to more than 60 billion tons of 
water." This precipitation was four times the normal amount. 

Table 3 shows the flood stages produced throughout the length of 
the Ohio River, which, except at Pittsburgh, reached the highest 
stages ever known. One of the meteorological hazards in a great 
flood, when the waters are lapping the tops of the levees at the edge 
of a moving lake miles wide, is the wind. Not only does the wind 
raise erosive waves, but it also raises the stage of the water. Thus 
at Memphis after an apparent crest had been reached, a 25-mile wind 

" Record-breaking January drought, floods, freezes, and early blooms. Information for the Press, U. S. 
Dept. of Agriculture, January 30, 1937. 



336 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



raised the level by 0.1 foot. The hazard of wind action is not so great 
as on a lake of similar dimensions, because the flood waters are usually 
shallower and projecting trees and buildings serve to reduce both the 
wind velocity and the disturbance of the water. 

When so enormous a quantity of water is involved, spread out over 
the lowlands, the passage of even great masses downstream lowers 
the upstream stages but slowly. The quantity of water represented 
by one foot when the flood is at its height is equal to that represented 
by several feet at lower stages. So great was the discharge of the Ohio 
relative to the Mississippi at the junction of the rivers that in this 1937 
flood the flow of the Mississippi above the mouth of the Ohio was 
reversed. This means that all the run-off of the Mississippi above 
Cairo was stopped for a time and that even moderate rains plus the 
water from the melting of the great quantity of snow in the upper 
Mississippi and middle Missouri valleys might have raised the levels 
of these rivers above flood stages before the flood waters of the Ohio 
passed on. Frankenfield found the damming effect of a flooded Ohio 
nearly to St, Louis. Similarly the great discharge of the Arkansas 
and other streams into the Mississippi below Cairo created a water 
dam. It is obvious why the period of high waters in the lower 
Mississippi is protracted. 



Table 3. — Maximum flood stages, Ohio and lower Mississippi, January and 

February ^ 



Station 


Flood 
stage 


Duration above flood 
stage, 1937 


Crest, 1937 


Previous record 


Stage 


Date 


Stage 


Date 


Pittsburgh 


Feet 
25 
50 
52 
28 
35 
40 
40 
34 
43 
17 


Jan. 18-20, 21-27 

Jan. 18-Feb. 3 

Jan. 18-Feb. 5 

Jan. 16-Feb. 7 

Jan. 10-Feb. 19 

Jan. 3-10, 19-Feb. 4. 

Jan.9-Feb. 27 

Jan. 20-Mar. 1 

Jan. 30-Mar. 14 

Feb. 7-Mar. 19 


34.5 
74.2 
80.0 
57.15 
53.75 
53.8 
59.5 
2 50.3 
53.2 
19.3 


Jan. 26 


46.0 
67.9 
71.1 
46.7 
48.4 
56.2 
56.4 
M6.6 
58.6 
21.3 


Mar. 18, 1936 


Portsmouth 


Jan. 27 


Mar. 31, 1913 


Cincinnati. . 


Jan. 26 . .. 


Feb. 14, 1884 


Louisville 


Jan. 27 

Jan.31-Feb. 1 

Jan. 26 

Feb. 3-4 


Feb. 16, 1884 


Evansville -.. 


Apr. 5, 1913 


Nashville ... 


Jan. 1, 1927 


Cairo 


Apr. 20,1927 


Memphis 


Feb. 9-10 - 


Apr. 9, 1913 


Vicksburg .. . 


Feb. 21... 


May 4, 1927 


New Orleans 


Feb. 28. 


Apr. 25, 1922 









1 Data from U. S. Weather Bureau gage records. 
' Beale St. gage. 

WESTERN COLD THE ACCOMPANIMENT OF EASTERN FLOODS 

The flood so eclipsed all else in weather news that the extreme cold 
in the West received little general attention. Throughout January 
polar air masses were just as persistently covering the West as tropical 
ones were deluging the East. Oranges were freezing in southern Cali- 
fornia while they were ripening too fast in Florida and early fruit 
trees were blossoming in southern South Carolina. Figure 1 shows 
temperatures more than 20° F. below normal in the central and south- 



FLOODS BROOKS AND THIESSEN 



337 



ern plateau region, where a blanket of snow maintained the original 
polar frigidity of the air. As thrust after thrust of polar air pushed 
southward in floods deep enough to overtop the usually protecting 
mountain wall of southern California — as indeed the floods of waters 
had overtopped the protecting walls along the great rivers in the 
East — this famous subtropical corner of the United States experienced 
a month of frequent freezes, ice, and occasional snow and was often 
colder than southern New England. The mean temperature of 
January at Los Angeles was 1.3° F. lower than the coldest on record. 
Two pronounced periods of cold, January 7-11 and 19-28, the latter 
coinciding with the rainiest period in the Ohio Valley, destroyed about 
40 percent of the orange crop, despite frantic efforts to heat the or- 
chards. ^^ Farther north, real wintry weather prevailed over the 




Figure 12.— Rainfall, Mar. 23 to 27, 1913 
(after F. J. Walz, Monthly Weather Rev., 
March 1913; map opposite p. 368) . 



Figure 13. — Total precipitation in the eastern 
United States, March 1913. 



coastal belt as well as to the east. At the end of January Portland 
was buried in its heaviest snowstorm of record. 

Is western cold the normal accompaniment of eastern floods? In 
table 1 are shown temperature departures of months when flooding 
rains were producing great floods in the east. Subnormal tempera- 
tures in San Diego have been coincident with the chief rainy months 
of all other general floods of winter or early spring in the Ohio and 
lower Mississippi valleys since 1882: the years 1883, 1897, 1903, 1907, 
1912, 1916, 1920, and 1926 (December). Obviously, widespread and 
great flooding rains in the Ohio and lower Mississippi valleys are 
attended by cold weather in southern California owing to a natural 
opposition between the great interlatitude currents of air. 

i< Cf. Ackernian, E. A., The 1937 California freeze. Bull. Amer. Meteor. Soc, vol. 18, pp. 240-241, 1937 
Young, F. D., The 1937 freeze in California. Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 66, pp. 311-324, 13 figs., 1938 



338 



ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



SIMILARITIES BETWEEN THE OHIO FLOODS OF 1913 AND 1937 

The conditions causing the excessive rainfall of up to 14 inches in 
northern Tennessee and 17 inches in northeastern Arkansas in January 
1913, and from 13 inches in southwestern Indiana to 12.7 in north- 
central Ohio in March 1913, were almost identical with those of 
January 1937. The pressure at Bermuda was 0.19 inch above normal 
in January 1913 and 0,30 above normal in March; which are to be 
compared with 0.36 above normal in January 1937, though during the 
heaviest rains the pressure departure of March 23-27, 1913, +0.39, 
exceeded that of January 20-25, 1937, +0.20.^'* 

The rainfall, though not so great over the Ohio and lower Missis- 
sippi watersheds as in the flood of 1937, nevertheless produced excep- 




FiQUEK 14.— Weather map of 8 p. m., March 24, 1913. (Courtesy U. S. Weather Bureau.) 

tional floods in the Ohio basin. In January 1913 a number of low 
pressure troughs parallel to the Ohio in regular succession were 
accompanied by heavy rains south of the river in the first half of the 
month and north of it in the last half. A crest of 62.2 feet was reached 
at Cincinnati on the 15th. Before the flooding rains the ground was 
neither snow-covered nor frozen. ^° 

The second flood, which, after rising 43.5 feet in 5 days, culminated 
at 69.8 feet on April 1 at Cincinnati, was due to the tremendous rains 
of March 23-27,^' when more than 10 inches feU at four stations (fig. 
12). The occurrence of three tornadoes in southern Indiana, southern 
Illinois, and Kentucky on the evenings of March 23 and 24 and the 
morning of the 25th was further evidence of an extraordinary intensity 
of convection of the tropical air. The sudden rise of the Miami, at 

" Swenson, loc. cit., p. 36. 

" Henry, A. J., Elvers and floods, January 1913. Monthly Weather Eev., vol. 41A, pp. 148-149, 1913. 

" Idem: Elvers and floods, March 1913, Ibid., pp. 485-492. 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 339 

Dayton, 17 feet in one day, was mainly responsible for the large loss 
of life, totaling 732 persons. 

Between the great high, 30.53 inches, at Bermuda, which was 
driving the tropical air, and the strong northern continental high, 
which was pushing the polar air kept well chilled by the deep snow 
cover of the region about and westward of Lake Superior, much as in 
1937, the trough of low pressure moved but slowly for several days 
(fig. 14). The fronts of 1913 were farther north than those of 1937, 
and the belt of excessive rainfall in March 1913 (fig. 13) was about 
100 miles to the north and somewhat to the east of that of 1937 (fig. 
11);^^ and no excessive rains fell across the lower Mississippi in March 
1913. The line dividing plus and minus temperature departures was 
farther east in 1913 (85th meridian) than in 1937. 

COMPARISON WITH FLOODS OF 1922 AND 1882 

In March 1922 a well-developed high in the southwestern Atlantic, 
averaging 0.14 inch above normal for the month at Bermuda, sent a 
copius flow of tropical marine air into the United States. Encounter 
with polar air masses took place over a broad area of the interior. 
Precipitation was so widespread that, with the exception of the Ten- 
nessee and Cumberland Kivers, the Mississippi and all its tributaries 
were in flood at the same time. The rainfall contributing to this flood 
as a whole, counting all the precipitation from January to April 
inclusive over the entire 1,250,900 square miles of the Mississippi 
drainage basin, averaged 10.58 inches, 33 percent of which came in 
March and 36 percent in April. I'he run-off was 25 percent. Ke- 
gionally the March rainfall ranged from 13 inches in eastern Arkansas 
to 11 in central Kentucky and up to 15 in Louisiana and 14 in southern 
Mississippi. The rain fell mostly on March 10, 14 to 15, and 30 to 31, 
when the tropical front passed through these regions ; while the supply 
of tropical air was maintained by the Bermuda high, which was par- 
ticularly strong in these thi^ee periods. Daily rainfalls were commonly 
1.5 to 3 and nearly 4 inches. April's excessive rainfall was mostly 12 
inches in southeastern Kansas to 9 inches in central Indiana. ^^ 

In January 1882 there was a southwest-northeast band of exces- 
sive rainfall extraordinarily like that of January 1937 (fig. 11), with 
rainfalls of 8 to 10 inches in eastern Texas up to over 15 inches in 
eastern Tennessee; but this band lay about 100 miles south of that of 
1937.2° In February 1882, 8 to 10 inches of rain fell over Arkansas 
and more than 8 inches over the lower Ohio Basin. The Cumberland 
River at Nashville rose to 54 feet 7 inches, just topping the great flood 
of 1847. The flood was due chiefly to the excessive rains, locally 3 

" Cf. Swenson, !oc. cit., fig. 24. 

»« Frankenfield, The spring floods of 1922, loc. cit. 

'" Cf. Swenson, loe. cit., fig. 24. 

114728—39 23 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

inches a day on January 12 to 13, 16, 21, and 27 to 28. Bermuda pres- 
sures were 0.09 inch above normal in January and 0.08 above normal 
in February, and temperatures were generally above normal through- 
out the eastern and central United States. North of the flood belt 
and in the northeast there were heavy snows. 

The West, as usual when the central valleys are flooded, was cold. 
Southern California experienced the severest freeze and heaviest snow- 
storms ever known. On January 13 snow fell generally, even at San 
Diego, and at Riverside it was deep enough (5 inches) for sleighing 
among the orange groves. Frost occurred on 29 days of January in 
southern California and on 20 days of February. 

Another visitation, almost identical with that of January 1882, 
came in December 1926, when, after wet preliminaries, a total of 
nearly 10 inches of rain fell over the Cumberland Valley in 9 days and 
the river at Nashville reached 56.2 feet. Bermuda pressures were 
high during the rainy spells of the month, 

APRIL AND MAY FLOODS IN THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY 

Middle and late spring floods, though caused in much the same 
manner as the winter floods already discussed, have the advantage of 
more vapor in the warmer tropical air and a greater intensity of 
convection and therefore of local storminess. The leafing out in spring, 
however, with increased interception and transpiration, reduces the 
run-off. Three floods may be cited: the general flood of April-May 
1927, a very great one, and the Missouri Valley floods of May 1903, 
and June 1915. 

In April 1927, as in early 1937, 1913, and 1882, a standing high 
in the southwestern Atlantic (Bermuda +0.06 inch) drove tropical 
air over a long fetch of very warm water ^^ and into the south-central 
United States, where it met large flows of polar air in the middle and 
lower Mississippi Basin. The severe rainstorms — 12 to 24 inches of 
rain fell in April over eastern Oklahoma, central and northern Arkan- 
sas, southern Missouri, and western Tennessee, while a large area 
around had more than 8 inches — following only 2 months after a 
midwinter flood, produced the highest stages theretofore known in the 
Arkansas and lower Mississippi Rivers. Frankenfield computed that 
about 55 cubic miles of water went down the Mississippi (26 percent 
of the 213 cubic miles of precipitation January to April). ^^ Melted 
snow made a negligible contribution, as in 1937, 1922, and 1913. 

The rains in April 1927 were of greater violence than in 1937, 
being associated frequently with thunderstorms and occasional torna- 
does. In 5 days, April 10-14, 18 tornadoes occurred in connection 

" Note the southeast-northwest isobars across the CaribbeaD on the North Atlantic weather maps 
Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 55, No. 4, charts 8-11, 1927. 

«' Frankenfield, The floods of 1927, loo. cit.: for a summary see Henry, A. J., Frankenfield on the 1927 
floods in the Mississippi Valley, Monthly Weather Eev., vol. 66, pp. 437-462, 1927. 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 341 

with the mixing of very cold polar air with fresh tropical air in Texas, 
Oklahoma, and Arkansas. Here again, as in 1937, 1913, and 1882, 
the coldness of the polar air was preserved by the deep snows not 
far to the north. The snowfall in April 1927 was tremendous on the 
northern Great Plains, as much as 60 inches south of the Black Hills. 
The cold front frequently stalled in the Ouachita or in the Ozark 
Mountains, as if the slight obstruction here was responsible for holding 
the slowly moving front. A quasi-stationary cold front here on April 
19-21 yielded 5 to 12 inches of rainfall. Another period of nearly 
continuous rainfall was April 7-16. Analysis of the immediate cause 
of the rainfall showed that convergence in south winds was answerable 
for 43 percent, ascent over a warm front with northeast winds at the 
surface for 35 percent, and ascent over a cold front with northwest 
winds at the surface for 22 percent.^^ 

The floods of May 1903 and of June 1915 in the lower Missouri, 
affecting Kansas City chiefly, were due to the northward thrust of 
tropical air by a high in the southeastern states and a westward or 
southwestward thrust of polar air from standing highs in the Lake 
region and westward. Lows stalled over the central plains and yielded 
tremendous quantities of rainfall in the form of great showers.^* 

FLOODS CAUSED IN PART BY OROGRAPHIC RAINFALL: 
APPALACHIAN AND NORTHEASTERN FLOODS OF MARCH, 1936" 

In the floods of March 1936 the Appalachian barrier seemed to play 
an important role by forming the divide between banked-up polar air 
on the west and tropical or its underlying modified polar Pacific or 
polar continental air masses on the east. While this favored fairly 
continuous rain, glaze, sleet, and snow in successive belts westward 
from the divide, heavy rains fell on the east of the divide as fronts 
nosed northeastward under the strong tropical wind from the south- 
east.^^ Extraordinary rains fell where the action of these fronts was 
augmented by such pronounced obstructions as the White Mountains. 
Thus at Pinkham Notch, at 2,000 feet on the southeast slope of Mount 
Washington, N. H., which rises 4,300 feet above it, 6.46 inches of rain 
fell on March 12, while the wind on Mount Washington reached a 

" Brooks, C. F. land N. H. Bangsl, [The causes of the flooding rains of April 1927] in discussion of Flood 
control with special reference to the Mississippi River, Proc Amer. Soc. Civil Engineers, vol. 64, pt. I, 
pp. 1260-1265, 1928; Trans. A. S. C. E., vol. 93, pp. 894-898, 1929. 

« Frankenfleld, H. C, Floods of the spring of 1903 in the Mississippi Watershed, U. S. Weather Bur. 
Bull. M, 1904; Day, P. C, The weather of the month [May 1915], Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 43, pp. 
250-252, 1915; Henry, A. J., The floods of May and June, 1915, in the Missouri Valley, ibid., pp. 286-287; 
Connor, P., Loss by floods in Kansas River and tributaries, June 1915, ibid., pp. 287-288; Henry, A. J., 
Rivers and floods, July 1915, ibid., pp. 353-355. 

" Cf. U. S. Geological Survey; Water-Supply Papers 798, 799, and 800; The flood of March 1936; 466, 380» 
and 351 pp. 

'" Byers, H. R., Meteorological conditions during the March 1936, and other notable floods, Joum. New 
England Water Works Assoc, vol. 51, pp. 213-218, 9 figs., 1937. 

Lichtblau, Stephen, Weather associated with floods of March 1936, U. S. Geological Survey Water-Supply 
Paper 800, pp. 12-31. 



342 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 



. **toH y^?s/ //W^y^ X \ 


T^ 


ry 


IJJ ( 


\_ (J / TV--/ //// ^\ \ 
















C / ;?<?//>(sXa~>oo 






\\\i 


















r* / 1 7 ^ '■>'•/''/ rVM\\ 






















jjJoi \ •; 




tj^ 




1 


^\\\>^^^^^^j^^^ 


3/ ^ 




n^ 


^^N^v^<^~~S/I^-^ 




rr 


'7 


^^^f^Q^i^^^^^ 


^ 


// 


Hi 


--:> pp.. -N^^, \">.j,,?^ 




// 


' li 


^^^2i>i^J-^^Y^r^^ 


7 


/ 


// 


*^\ ^^aX 


A 


/ 


/ 


March 12, 1936-8 PM \J jji 


'^.. 






toaMiiii 7 /• 


-\ 


■i - 


\ 
















\ 


V AyD-v\zs~- 


,^^^ 


>_<= 


-W 




Figure 15.— Successive dovelopments in the 
weather situation March 12 to 17, 1936, in the 
eastern United States (8 p. m. air-mass maps, 
courtesy U. S. Weather bureau). 



velocity of 158 miles an hour from 
the south-southeast. On the 18th 
6.27 inches of rain fell and 4.05 more 
on the 19th, while the winds on the 
mountain reached 132 miles an hour 
from the southeast. The total rain- 
fall at Pinldaam Notch in the 14 
days from March 9 to 22 was 22.43 
inches; at Randolph, north of the 
mountain, 16.19; and on the sum- 
mit of Mount Washington, 13.86. 

The Atlantic high on this occasion 
was centered off the Middle and 
North Atlantic States instead of 
Bermuda and southward as in the 
other three great floods. Never- 
theless, the pressure at Bermuda in 
March 1936, averaged 0.15 inch 
above normal. Thus the tropical 
air streams reached the United 
States from the southeast and 
mostly along the coast north of 
Hatteras. The speed of inflow in 
the lower levels was often 20 to 40 
miles an hour and at higher levels 
twice these speeds. 

A complicating factor was the 
deep and dense snow cover and heav- 
ily frozen rivers at the beginning of 
March (fig. 18). Ice was reported 
in all the northern rivers and in 
the headwaters of the Ohio. The 
Allegheny was frozen, New Jersey 
rivers were ice-jammed, and the 
West Virginia rivers were filled with 
floating ice. 

In January 1936 precipitation 
was above normal everywhere in the 
section of the country considered — 
New England, Middle Atlantic 
States, Virginia, and the upper Ohio 
Valley. Temperature everywhere 
averaged below normal. In the last 
decade of the month temperatures 
below zero were reported every- 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN" 



343 




GEOGR. REVIEW, APR 



Figure 16.— Total precipitation in Itie eastern United States, March 1936. (l''rom Monthly Weather 

Rev., March 1936.) 




FiouRE 17.— Eainfall and water equivalent of snow cover melted Ijom March 9 to 21, inclusive, 1936, In New 
England. (From Climatic Data, U. S. Weather Bureau, New England Section, March 1036.) 



344 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



where from New England to Virginia and westward, including Ken- 
tucky and Ohio, and were continued in one of the coldest Februarys 
on record. Precipitation during Februaiy was slightly below normal 
for most of the area. These conditions were favorable for freezing the 
ground to a depth of several inches and, therefore, conducive to floods; 
the greater part of the March rains was immediately available as 
run-off. After the first 8 days, March temperatures were 3 to 12 
degrees above normal. Precipitation was well above normal in all 
parts except Kentucky and Ohio: in New England more than twice 
the normal monthly amount fell. Fortunately a week of balmy winds 
preceded the first heavy rains, so that the removal of the snow cover 
and softenmg of the ice were well under way. A respite of a few 




SNOW COVER 

"^ March 2 '^^^ March 23 

A- 'v I I 




Figure 18.— Depth of snow on ground at 8 p. m., 
March 2, 1936. (From Weekly Weather and 
Crop Bull., March 3, 1936.) 



Figure 19.— Depth of snow on ground at 8 p. m., 
March 23, 1936. (From Weekly Weather and 
Crop Bull., March 24, 1936.) 



days after the first downpours also permitted the crest of the snow, 
ice block, and rain flood to pass before the greater rains descended. 

Though Pittsburgh had its worst flood on record, with a stage 7 
feet higher than ever before known, the local contribution to the waters 
was relatively small and in ice form. If the general temperatures 
had been only a few degrees higher, the addition of the precipitation 
that covered western Pennsylvania with ice or snow to the floodwaters 
from the 5- to 7-inch rains near the crest of the Appalachians might 
well have added several feet to this extraordinary visitation. The 
trees in a north-to-south belt across western New York were devastated 
by the ice storm ; and Buffalo was snowed in by an unprecedented fall, 
to which was added a few days later another heavy snowstorm. 

New England above 2,000 feet was still deeply snow-covered when 
the tropical wind and great rains burst upon the country on Alarch 17; 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 345 

consequently a further release of snow water added to the tremendous 
rain, making a total of 10 to 30 inches since March 9 (fig. 17), brought 
the chief rivers to unprecedented stages.^^ The headwaters in the 
mountains, however, were so well protected by dense coniferous 
forests that the snow cover was not entirely removed and acted as a 
good storage reservoir for the rain. At Pinldiam Notch the depth 
of snow cover was reduced from 48 inches on the 9th to 16.2 inches on 
the 21st, and on Mount Washington summit from 20.5 inches to only 1 
inch.'^ Accordingly, though great slush slides occurred, the floods in 
the mountains were not exceptional. 

THE JOHNSTOWN FLOOD OF 1889 

The Johnstown flood of 1889, like the flood of 1936, was caused by 
the meeting of a strong flow of tropical Atlantic air from the southeast 
with a standing front of modified though cold polar continental air 
near the crest of the central Appalachians.^^ Although the disaster 
at Johnstown and vicinity, in which some 9,000 people were drowned, 
was due chiefly to the bursting of a dam, the rainfall, averaging 6.2 
inches over the Johnstown Valley,^" is the outstanding occurrence of its 
kind over the central Appalachians.^^ The maximum was 9.8 inches, 
falling in 31 hours. Russell computes that 1.9 cubic miles of water fell 
on the Susquehanna watershed, 1 cubic mile on the Potomac, and 0.9 
cubic mile on the Allegheny and Monongahela watersheds. The 
rain front swept from the Atlantic to Lake Erie in 16 hours.^^ 

THE NEW ENGLAND AND NEW YORK FLOODS OF 1927, 1935, 1938 

The New England and New York floods of November 1927 were 
caused in much the same manner as the widespread flood of 1936 and 
the less general one of 1889. The chief flood was due to the rain of 
November 3 to 4, when exceptional rains fell on soil thoroughly soaked 
by the tropical storm a fortnight before. A western low and a weak 
tropical cyclone joined forces in a deep current of tropical air, which 
was forced northward at increasing speed by a great high centered 
near Newfoundland. Part of the strength of this high, which at one 
time reached 30.72 inches, was derived from a flow of cold air from 
the Greenland region. The rainfall was due to convergence in the 

" Cf. Uhl, W. F., Flood conditions in New England, Proc. Amer. Soc. of Civil Engineers, Mar., pp. 449- 
483, 1937; and Grover, Nathan C, The floods of March 1936, Part I, New England rivers, U. S. Geological 
Survey, Water Supply Paper 798, 466 pp., illus., 1937. 

" For further details see Baldwin and Brooks, op. cit. 

'• Byers, H. R., Meteorological conditions during the March 1936 and other notable floods, loc. cit, p. 212. 

» Russell, T., The Johnstown flood, Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 17, pp. 117-119, 1889. 

" Hayes, M. W., Some flood-producing storms of the Atlantic Seaboard, Journ. New England Water 
Works Assoc, vol. 51, pp. 207-208, 1937. 

'» Russell, op. cit., Chart 6. 



346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

tropical cyclone, to general convergence of the tropical wind in New 
England, to ascent, and convection touched off by it, both over high- 
lands and a cold air mass banked up behind the Green Mountains. 

With the passage of the tropical cyclone the night of the 3rd-4th, 
a narrow belt of excessive rain drove northward through Rhode Island 
and eastern Massachusetts. Orographic plus frontal effects caused 
more than 7 inches of rainfall in western Massachusetts and up to 
9.65 in Vermont, of which 8.77 fell in one day. Still heavier rains 
evidently occurred in the momitains, judging from the tremendous 
quantities of water discharged both from the Green Mountains and 
from the White Mountains, possibly up to 15 inches.^^ Minor floods 
of the same type, occurred in Vermont and New York later in the 
same month. 

The New England and New York floods of September 1938 resulted 
from a close duphcation of the conditions of November 1927, only 
tliis time the tropical cyclone was a major hurricane.^'' 

The New York State flood of July 1935,^* had many features in 
common with the New England flood. Western New York, also a 
portion of Pennsylvania, received rains in excess of 8 inches in con- 
nection with a slowly moving cold front meeting active streams of 
tropical air, July 7-8. The maximum in 24-hours rainfall was 9.00 
inches at Pottsville, Pa., 8.52 mchcs at Delhi, and 8.50 inches at 
Burdett, which had 10.50 in 2 days and 11.70 in 4. Cortland, near-by, 
had 11.54 inches July 7-10. Record-breaking floods occurred in spite 
of dry ground and low streams. Very moist tropical Atlantic and 
tropical Gulf air streams rapidly converged over this region and were 
forced upward by converging polar continental and polar Atlantic air 
streams in an evenly balanced action which held the polar Atlantic 
front with attendant thunderstorms stalled near the crest of the divide 
for about 24 hours. 



" For an account of the flood in the Connecticut Valley see Ooldthwait, J. W., The gathering of floods in 
the Connecticut River System, Oeogr. Rev., vol. 18, pp. 438-445, 1928. For details as to the causes of the 
November floods see Weber, J. H., and Brooks, C. F., The weather-map story of the flooding rainstorm of 
New England and adjoining regions, November 3-4, 1927, Journ. New England Water Works Assn., vol. 42, 
pp. 91-103, 1928, reprinted in vol. 20, pp. 106-118, 1930. For the rainfall and comparison with other flooding 
storms in New England see Goodnough, X. H., Rainfall in New England during the storm of November 3 
and 4, 1927, vol. 42, pp. 150-188, vol. 44, pp. 119-156, 1927. For a general account, see Frankenfleld, H. C, 
November floods in New England and eastern New York, Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 55, pp. 496-499, 
maps, 1927. Cf. also Byers, loc. cit., p. 212. 

'♦ Brooks, C. F., Hurricanes into New England: Meteorology of the storm of September 21, 1938, Geogr. 
Rev., vol. 29, pp. 119-127, 1939. Cf. also Byers, loc. cit., pp. 212-213. 

»' Johnson, HoUister, The New York State flood of July 1935, U. S. Geol. Surv. Water-Supply Paper 773-E, 
Washington, pp. 233-268, 1936. The meteorological history of this storm was fully discussed by T. E. Reed , 
in the Binghamton (N. Y.) Press, July 23, 1935, maps and diagrams, and by C. L. Mitchell in Monthly 
Weather Rev., vol. 63, p. 231, 1935, and (reprinted) in Johnson's paper, loc. cit., in which is also a discussion 
by J. C. Fisher of the rainfall. Mr. Fisher also has an account in Climatological Data, U. S. Weather 
Bureau, New York Section, July 1935. 



FLOODS — BROOKS AND THIESSEN 347 

THE SOUTHERN APPALACHIAN AND SOUTHEASTERN FLOODS OF 

JULY 1916 

Two slowly moving hurricanes went to pieces in the southern Appa- 
lachians July 10 and 15. The combination of exceedingly moist 
tropical air converging at hurricane velocities for several days over 
the southeastern United States produced rainfalls generally in excess 
of 8 inches, and over considerable areas in excess of 20. Altapass, 
N. C, where topography augmented normal hurricane processes in 
forcing air upward, recorded a fall of 22.22 inches in 24 hours.^" 
Excessive though this was, it is far exceeded by the 24-hour fall of 
45.99 inches, with which an 88-inch four-day rainstorm began, as a 
severe typhoon reached Baguio, in the highlands of Luzon, P. I., 
July 14-15, 1911." The maximum 5- and 10-day rainfalls in 1916 
were 24.45 and 31.07 inches. 

CONCLUSION 

Great floods may occur in the eastern United States at any time of 
the year, for there is always an extensive warm-water surface near 
by, from which great volumes of vapor may be transported, while, 
not far distant, throughout the year there are cold surfaces to furnish 
moving wedges of cold air to elevate the tropical air. The polar air 
masses engage the tropical masses normally every few days, and rains 
fall. The great floods occur, however, only when a persistent high 
over the western Atlantic sends the tropical air inland for days in 
succession, and then only when the polar masses meet and elevate the 
tropical air over the same area or region for one to several days in 
succession or on repeated occasions. Topography plays an important 
role in determining where slowly moving fronts will stall: sometimes 
even minor divides are effective. Snow cover seldom contributes 
much to great floods, though by helping to keep cold air masses cold 
it may contribute to stalling and to the maintenance of the tempera- 
ture contrast between the cold and the warm air masses. 

What can man do about great floods? ^^ He cannot change the 
amount of rain that will fall; but he can change the rate at which it 
will run off. He cannot change the amount of snow that will fall; but 
by dense evergreen foliage he can hinder it from reaching the ground 
and, once on the ground, from being converted into rapid run-off. 
Once the water is running off, he can hold back some of it by numerous 
dams on small streams and by larger dams below; and, by adequate 

3» Henry, A. J., Floods in the East Gulf and South Atlantic States, July 1916. Monthly Weather Rev., 
vol. 44, pp. 466-476, 1916. 

" Cf. Co-Ching Chu, Distribution of precipitation in China during the typhoons of the summer of 1911. 
Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 44, p. 446. 1916. 

" A symposium on recent eastern floods and the national aspects of flood control held in Pittsburgh Octo- 
ber 13 and 14, 1936, is summarized in Civil Engineering, vol. 7, pp. 25-32, 1937, and published In full in the 
March issue of Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers. 



348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

measurements of rainfall and condition of the ground and by a rapid 
system of collecting reports, he can compute in advance when and how 
high the waters will rise. He can confine the rivers by levees, but he 
must provide for temporary diversion of excess waters over capacious 
lowlands. He can straighten the stream chamiels to hasten the water 
on its way but, without great care, such rehef upstream may mean 
a greater flood downstream. The operation of control dams and 
diversions could be more mtelligently directed if great rains could be 
foreseen more than a day or two in advance. This is not impossible, 
and studies in long-range forecasting are already rather promising. 
But whatever success may be attainable in weather and river-stage 
forecasting the main point to bear in mind is that 10-inch rains do 
fall, sometimes in a few hours, and that if man does not control the 
speed with which the water reaches the streams and then whither it 
goes floods will devastate the valleys. 



EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT 



By Ernest P. Walker 
Assistant Director, National Zoological Park 



[With one plate] 



The "shining" of eyes at night by the reflection of light is a com- 
mon and generally fairly well known natural phenomenon of which 
little has been recorded except incidentally in accounts of hunting and 
of campfire scenes. The shining of the cat's eyes at night by reflected 
light is probably the best known of all eye reflections. The eyes of 
human beings very rarely shine. There are, however, occasional re- 
ports of the shining of a human being's eyes, and I have heard of one 
instance of a person being shot at night because liis eyes shone. 
These, however, I have not verified. 

While studjdng the condition and activity of small mammals in the 
recently completed Small-Mammal House in the National Zoological 
Park, I became interested in the different kinds of reflections obtained 
from the eyes of difl'erent animals and proceeded to make inquiry from 
naturalists and to search for literature on the subject. 

In A Survey of Nocturnal Vertebrates in the Kartabo Region of 
British Guiana, Crawford ^ refers to the glow of eyes and lists the 
kinkajou, jaguar, puma, ocelot, yaguaroundi, margay, opossum, three 
species of toads of the genus Bufo, and the giant goatsucker Nyctibius. 
He does not refer to the colors and does not mention the caimans which 
inhabit that general region and whose eyes give perhaps the most pro- 
nounced and beautiful glow I have observed. 

A. J. Van Rossem ^ lists 28 species of birds observed by him or 
recorded by others as "shining." He also refers to light reflections 
from the eyes of insects, spiders, and domestic animals. In this paper 
he lists 3 manuscripts and 5 publications recording eye shines, and 
brings out points that should be studied by future students of the 
subject. No other published material on the shining of the eyes of 
vertebrates has come to my attention. 

Examinations of the eyes of various animals as well as those of man 
by use of the opthalmoscope have been made by several writers, nota- 
bly Johnson ^ and Wood.* Both authors picture the surface of the 

• Crawford, S. C, A survey of nocturnal vertebrates in the Kartabo region of British Guiana. Journ. 
Animal Ecol., vol. 2, p. 282, November 1933. 

' Van Rossem, A. J., Eye shine in birds, with notes on the feeding habits of some goatsuckers. The Con- 
dor, vol. 29, pp. 25-28, January 1927. 

♦ Johnson, O. L., Contributions to the comparative anatomy of the mammalian eye, chiefly based on 
ophthalmoscopic examination. Proc. Roy. Soc. London, ser. B, vol. 194, 1901. 

< Wood, O. A., The fundus oculi of birds, especially as viewed by the ophthalmoscope. Chicago, 1917. 

349 



350 ANNUAL. KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

retina as revealed to them through the opthalmoscope. These pic- 
tures, however, might be compared to the view that would be obtained 
by standing outside a dark room and projecting a beam of light onto 
the walls of the room, thereby revealing the color and other features 
of the walls to the observer standing outside. This is quite different 
from the "shining" of eyes, which merely brings back toward the 
observer diverging rays of colored light like small incandescent lights 
seen from a distance. 

Information on the "shining of eyes" is so meager that it appears 
justifiable to record my observations in the hope that someone may 
be able to use them as a foundation for further studies. While eyes of 
animals in the wild are frequently observed at night, the name of the 
owner of the eyes is often unknown, and there is little likelihood that 
the same individual can be observed again under similar conditions. 
A zoo is unexcelled for this purpose as it permits one to study many 
different kinds of animals under more or less constant conditions and 
to observe repeatedly the same individuals. 

In obtaining my observations I used a reflecting head lamp, similar 
to a hand flashlight, worn on my forehead connected by a cord to a 
three-cell battery in a pocket or on my belt. Flashlights carried in 
the hand were used at times but were not entirely satisfactory as the 
rays of the light must closely parallel the line of sight of the observer 
in order to obtain reflections from the greatest number of species and 
uniform results. The best results are obtained with a light of moder- 
ate intensity. If it is too bright, the shining is less conspicuous or 
does not show at all. Four main points are observable in every case. 
They are: 

(a) Whether or not the eyes reflect light. 

(6) If they reflect, the color of the reflection and whether the color 
is individually constant or variable; also whether or not it varies in 
different individuals of a species, 

(c) Whether the reflection is duU, medium, or brilliant. 

(d) The angle from which reflections are obtainable, i. e., whether 
it is necessary for the observer to be opposite the center of the eye, 
or if the reflection can be obtained from behind the animal and in 
front of it, as well as directly opposite the center of the line of vision. 
This might be considered as wide or narrow angle of reflection. 

For the sake of brevity the data given in the appended list relates 
almost entirely to observations on (6) and (c). 

The description of colors in words and the indication of varying 
degrees of brilliance or paleness are so diflacult that the observations 
herein recorded can in general indicate only relative differences 
between animals. 

The word "glow" is sometimes used to describe the character of 
the reflections. This term can well be used for the reflections given 



EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT — WALKER 351 

off by the eyes of alligators, crocodiles, and caimans; "shining" their 
eyes gives one the impression that he is looking into a brilliantly 
glowing pinkish opening in a dull surfaced bed of coal. In the 
majority of mammalian eyes observed I have gained the impression 
of looking at a highly polished metal surface. Sometimes the effect 
is likened to looking into an incandescent globe of the color indicated. 
Often pronounced light rays appear to emanate from the eyes. In 
some eyes, such as those of the smaller rodents, the effect is that of 
looking into an illuminated piece of amber. 

To assist the reader to understand the character of the reflections, 
a colored drawing has been prepared for a few animals, to show some 
of the range of reflections obtained. Efforts were made to produce 
a plate that would show not only the colors but the glow or brilliance 
of the eyes, but several artists were unable to produce the effect even 
on an original and, had they done so, it is doubtful whether it could 
have been reproduced. The proper effect could undoubtedly be weU 
simulated by placing smaU incandescent lights behind translucent 
spots of the right color on an opaque background. Indeed, the 
brilliance of the reflections is as impossible to show as is the gleam 
from snow in sunlight. At my suggestion, Mr. Fred Adams of the 
Dufaycolor, Inc., New York City, experimented in taking a few color 
pictures by photoflash. The results as to eye shine, though not 
entirely satisfactory, are promising. 

The illustration shows the eyes in pairs, and as disks. Frequently, 
however, only a single eye is seen, or in some instances, depending 
on the position, both eyes are seen as ovals or crescents, or other 
modifications of a true circle. In practically all species, however, it 
is possible to obtain the shine in both eyes simultaneously to some 
extent, even though they are not perfect circles. 

A confusing factor is the circumstance that different persons 
apparently see the reflections as quite different colors. One person 
who is usually good in recognizing colors by dayHght insists that the 
reflections are without color. Others have described or painted for 
me their conception of some of the reflections much more reddish 
than I see them. 

I have made no experiment designed to prove which surface of 
the eye produces the reflections. In the case of the animals that 
have eyes that "glow" or are like amber it appears that we look into 
the eye through the pupil as if the reflection came from the front 
surface of the retina. In those animals that give a reflection as from 
polished metal I gain no impression of looking into the eye. In most 
of these cases, however, the reflection is not obtainable closer than 
8 to 20 feet — a distance that prevents one from observing which 
surface reflects. The reflections of alligators, crocodiles, and caimans 
can be seen when the observer is within a foot of the animal. In 



352 ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

most animals, other than man and the higher primates, the retina 
has an extra coat or layer, the tapetum lucidium. This may be the 
reflecting surface. 

The editor of the Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society 
(vol. 31, No. 1, p. 221) makes a brief comment regarding a short 
article by A. A. Dunbar Brander relative to the source of color in 
the eye of the gaur, which reads: 

In volume IV of the Society's Journal the late Mr. J. D. Inverarity came to 
the same conclusion as Mr. Dunbar Brander and pointed out that the blue 
colouring of the gaur's eye is due to the tapetum lucidium — the lining to a greater 
or less extent of the back part of the choroid membrane of the eye which, in the 
gaur, is of a lovely peacock-blue color. It is this membrane which causes an 
animal's eye to shine in the dark. In the human eye it is opaque and black. 

The eyes of most domesticated and some wild animals deteriorate 
in captivity so that the vision may become very poor. Defective eyes 
have been apparent in a few of the cases observed. 

At the suggestion of Dr. Earl S. Johnston, of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, Division of Radiation and Organisms, beams of red and blue 
light have been projected into the eyes. These rays were obtained 
by fastening a single thickness of red or blue Cellophane over the 
flashlight lens. Over 40 species of mammals, reptiles, and amphibians 
were examined under the red rays, but there was very little variation 
in colors of the reflected light from various animals other than the 
addition of a red tinge. They varied from a dull reddish amber 
through reddish silver to reddish gold, the differences being mainly 
those of brilliance. Observations on 30 species of mammals and rep- 
tiles gave similar results with blue rays, the reflections ranging from 
dull and pale bluish silver to blue-green and blue, with the metaUic 
luster persisting in those species that give brilliant reflections under 
normal Hght. The reflections from the crocodflians were partially 
opalescent. The characteristics of the responses to colored lights indi- 
cate that fluorescence does not account for the response to the rays of 
the torch. Reflection is left as the only probable source of the return 
light. 

In some animals the color of the "shine" is constant whereas in 
others it may appear as three different colors in a few seconds, while in 
some instances the color is constant for each observation but may be 
different on different days. 

It has been suggested that the change is caused by the animal's 
changing the direction of its eyes. In some cases this is true, but in 
others I have been unable to detect any change in the position of the 
eye, and since most animals change their line of sight mainly by moving 
the head rather than rolling the eyes it is probable that a change that 
would alter the reflected light would be detected in movement of the 
head. Most of the bears that I have observed swing their heads from 
side to side without changing the color of the reflections from their eyes. 



EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT WALKER 353 

A few animals, notably the binturong and the golden cat, close their 
eyes very quickly when the beam of light is directed at them. Most, 
however, stare directly at the light or move the head only slightly. 

Of the monkeys, no shine was detected from the eyes of orangutans, 
chimpanzees, gibbons, macaques, langurs, baboons, and marmosets. 
A faint suggestion of a shine was detected in the ring-tailed lemur. On 
the other hand, the eyes of the slow loris and the potto gave the most 
brilliant reflections of all eyes observed. Mr. A. J. Van Rossem once 
told me he had seen the eyes of spider monkeys shine. 

My observations suggest that the majority of rodent eyes shine but 
dully in browns, hazel or amber, but the porcupines are an exception — 
their eyes are very brUhant — generally silvery and reflecting through a 
wide angle. 

In the case of snakes, one is sometimes tempted to mistake the shine 
from the surface of the scale over the eye (the brille) for the true reflection 
of the eye. 

These studies have been more fruitful of unsolved questions than of 
answers. Some of the questions are: 

1 . Do the animals possess vision over a wide cone or only over that 
cone in which reflections may be obtained? If the former is the case, 
it indicates that such animals as the hippopotamus and Old World 
porcupines can see in practically any direction except for a narrow 
angle directly behind them. Others have a very narrow angle of vision. 

2. What is the difference between eyes that shine and those that do 
not? 

3. What produces the different colors of reflections? 

4. What changes take place in an eye that cause it to give differently 
colored reflections in quick succession? 

5. What is the explanation of the fact that eyes that do not change 
colors quickly give quite different colored reflections on different dates? 

6. Why do some eyes that give reflections at a distance beyond 8 
to 10 feet fail to give any when viewed at a lesser distance? 

In the following list the occurrence of the letters C, or C. and E., 
indicate that the observations were made by Jeremiah A. ColUns or 
Collins and Arthur L. Edwards, National Zoological Park policemen, 
while on night duty. This opportunity is taken to thank them for 
their assistance. The mark / between notes indicates different dates 
of observation. Some of the animals have been observed many times. 
The figures in parentheses indicate the number of individuals observed. 

MAMMALS 
Maesupialia 
didelphidae: 

Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana) Dull orange. 

Zorro or banana opossum (Metachirus opot- 

sum).. - Silvery to pale amber. 

uacrofodidae: 

Tree k&ngatoo (Dendrolagut inuitus) (2) Dull deep red amber. / Deep reddish orange. / Red 

dish orange and blood red. 



354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1 



Golden cat Small-toothed palm civet 

Profelis temmincki Paradoxurus hermaphrodytua 



Javan mouse deer _ ,„ . ,. . 

Tragulusjavanicus ^°- (Same mdividual) 



Alligator 

Alligator 7nississipiensis ^°- (Same individual) 



Slow loris Prehensile-tailed porcupine 

Nycticebus coucang Coendou prehensilis 



Lesser tiger cat Kangaroo rat 

Felis pardinoides Dipodomys merriami 



Malay porcupine Great Basin pocket mouse 

Acanthion brachyurum Perognathus parvus 



Smithsonian Report. 1938.— Walker 



Plate l 




Some Animal Eyes That Shine at Night. 
Reproduction of painting by Mrs. Helen Conger, W. P. A. artist, from direct observations. 



EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT — WALKER 355 

Carnivora 
felidak: 

Cheetah (Acinonyi jubata) Qreen. C. 

Puma (Fttis concolor) (3) Pale green to silvery-gold. 

UoD (FelU leo) Qolden. O. 

Uganda wild tabby (Felis ocreata) Qreen changing to slightly golden. / Qreen then silvery. 

Jaguar (Felis onca) Golden. C. 

Ocelot (Felis pardalis) - Bright golden. C. 

Lesser tiger cat (i^€/i« pariiinoides) (1) Qreen with occasional silvery tinge. Reflection ob- 
tained when rays are at a wide angle from eye. 
East African leopard (.Fe/i«pardM«««oftWic«s)- Qreen. C. 

Siberian tiger (Felis tigris longipilis) (2) Pale green. / Silver. C. 

Caracal (Lynx caracal) Greenish gold. 

Bay lynx (Lynx rufiu) (2) Qreen and silvery. 

Bay or golden cat (Pro/e/i» <<7n7nJn<;A:i) (2) Dull orange. / Silvery. / Repeatedly observed, usually 

pale golden. 
viverridae: 

Binturong (Arctictis binturong) Qreen changing to salmon pink then yellow. / Yellow. / 

Silvery to golden, but shut eyes quickly. / Brilliant 
silver and light green. / Opalescent. 

Civet (Civettictis clvetta) - Pale green, silver, orange, depending on angle. 

Neumann's genet (Oenetta dongatana «««• 
manni) Pale green and silver. / Clear light green. 

Civet (Moschothera megaspila) Silver, yellow, and occasional green. 

Falm civet (Paradoxurus hermapKrodytus) (S) . Qreen, then amber. / Pale blue-green then golden./ 

Golden and silver. / Green, then golden, then silver. 
/MWTT^.B. ^ '^^^^ ^°^ ^ brilliant. / Qreen then golden. 

Coyote (Canis latrans) (4) Brilliant golden. / Golden. / Qolden and light greenish. 

/ Constant brilliant blue-green. / Green and silvery. 
Albino coyote (Canis latrans) (2) Golden and greenish. / Very small, variable orange to 

silvery and green. 

Timber wolf (Canis lupus tycoon) Qreen, then silvery. 

Wolf (Canis lupus nubilus) (5) Orange, silvery, and green. / Orange, golden, and occa- 

Wolf and dog hybrid (Canis lupus nubilus X 
domesticus) Usually light golden silvery. Occasionally green. 

Texas red wolf (Con/jrM/«s) (7) Variable. Brilliant golden, sometimes tinged with 

reddish. Sometimes silvery. Often blue-green. 
Changes due to position. 

M&ned woU (Chrvsocyon jubata) Golden. C. 

Sumatran wild dog (Cuon javanicus suma- 
trensis).. Green. C. 

Red fox (Vulpes fulva) (4) One animal with one large brilliant reddish gold eye 

and one very small and dull. Three others faint 
PROCYONiDAE- greenish silvery; silvery and golden; all brilliant. 

Gray coatimundi (Nasua narlca) (2) Blue green, silvery to gold. / Qreen and silvery. 

Kinkajou (Potos flavus) (3) Light bright gold; golden, then green. / Brilliant deep 

gold, occasionally with green tinge. / Golden. / Bril- 
liant orange to gold. Slight difference between 2 
animals observed. 

Black raccoon (Procyon lotor) (3) Medium amber. / Pale green. / Silvery and later light 

yellow. Did not shine, then green. 

Albino raccoon (Procyon lotor) (1) Very pale yellow. 

Normal raccoon (Procyon lotor).. ._ Very palo yellow. 

BASSARISaOAE: 

Ring-tail or cacomistle(Ba»saffscuja4ru<«i) (2). Green, silvery, orange. 
mustelidak: 

Hog badger (Arctonyx collaris) (2) Brassy to silvery. Fairly brilliant. /Silver to light gold. 

Asiatic marten (Charronia flavigula henricif)-— Blue-green. / Green. / Qreen. 

White tayra (Galidis barbara barbara) (2) Dull silvery to light orange. 

Alaskan otter (Lutra canadensis) Light amber. 

Florida otter (Lutra canadensis mga) Silvery to amber. / Silver. / Brilliant pale yellow both 

in water and out. 

Skunk (Mephitis nigra) (4) Bright deep amber. / Gold. 

Small-clawed otter (Micraonyx kptonyx) Pale yellow to light amber. / Light golden to silvery. 

Ferret (Mustela eversmanni) Blue-green to silver. 

Mink (Mustela vison vison) Yellow and green. 

Florida spotted skunk (SpUogale ambarvalis).. Very light amber. / Silver to light amber. 
114728—39 24 



356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Carnivora— Continued 
ursidak: 

Glacier bear (Euarctos ernmonsii) Silver tinged with golden. 

Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus). Silver tinged with very pale blue. Like a star. 

Hybrid boar (Thalarctoa maritimus X Ursua 

gya») (3) Greenish silvery and blue-green. 

Kidder's bear (Utsus kidderi) Golden-silvery to deep gold. 

PiNNIPKDIA 
OTAnilDAK: 

California sea lion (,Zalophus californianus) Very dull pale amber. 

phocidak: 

Pacific harbor seal (Phoca richaTdii) (2) Golden. 

Primates 
callitrichidak: 

Black-tailed marmoset (Mico argentata). None. 

cercohthrcidae: 

Javan macaque (Macaca mordax) None. 

i.emuridae: 

Ring-tailed lemur {Lemur catta) (2) Dull pale amber. / One golden and one light gold. / 

Golden. 

Slow loris (Nycticebus coucang) (3) - Brilliant amber. / Brilliant deep red amber. / Brilliant 

deep red gold. / Deep amber. / Amber. 
Potto (Perodidicus potto) Brilliant faint-greenish to very pale lemon. 

rodentia 
sciuridae: 

Sumatran tricolored squirrel {Callosciurus 

mtlanops) (2)... Dull pale amber. 

Albino woodchuck or groundhog (Marmota 

monax) Orange. 

Javan giant squirrel (Ratufa bicolor) Red amber. 

Rock squirrel (Ratufa sp.) Dull deep orange. 

Lesser white squirrel (Sciurut finlaysoni) Dull pale amber. / Light golden. 

Hoffman's .squirrel (Sciurus hoffmoni sub. sp.) 

(2) Dull light brown. 

Fox squirrel (Sciurus niger, dark phase) Red amber. / Deep orange. 

heteromyidae: 

Merriam's silky pocket mouse (PeTognathua 

merriavii merriami) (2) Medium amber, medium bright 

jaculidae: 

Egyptian jerboa (Jaculus jacutus) (5) Pale amber. / Very pale amber. 

cricetidae: 

Woodrat (Neotoma micTopus) -.. Pale yellow amber. / Light dull amber. 

White-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus) (2). Dull amber. / Dull amber. 

Cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus) Dull deep amber. 

muridae: 

Gambia pouched rat (Cricetomys gambianus) 

(2) Dull orange. 

Bamboo rat (Notocleptes sumatrensis) Pale amber. / None. 

Grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leucogaster)... Dull amber. 
dipodidae: 

Kangaroo rat (Dipodomyi memami) Dull pale amber. 

Kangaroo mouse (Microdipodops pallidus) Dull pale amber. 

hystricidae: 

Malay porcupine (Acanthion brachyurum) (3) . Brilliant silvery orange (reflect in scant light). / Bright 

light silver. Reflect at wide angle from light source 
and over wide angle. 
African brush-tailed porcupine (Atherurus 

ajricana) (2) Very bright silver to very pale yellow. 

East African porcupine (Hystrix galeata) (2)... Medium amber. / Orange when first awakened; silvery. 
Brush-tailed porcupine {Thecurus sumatrae) (2). Brilliant silvery. Shine in scant light. 
erethizontidae: 

Prehensile-tailed porcupine {Coendou prehen- 

lilis) Light orange. Visible from very wide angle. / Golden 

to light yellow both close up and at a distance. 
myocastoridae: 

Coypu rat (Myorastor coypu) (2) Dull silver tinged with gold. 



EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT WALKER 357 

RODENTiA— Continued 

capromyidae: 

Hutla {Capromys pUorides) (8) Dull medium amber. / Deep reddish orange. / Deep 

golden or reddish orange. 
cuniculidae: 

Central American paca (Cuniculus paca vir- 

gatus) Dark red amber, moderate brilliance. / Deep golden. 

dastproctidae: 

Agouti (Dasyprocia croconota prymnolopha) (2). Dull orange. 
hydrochoekidae: 

Capybara (HydrochocTus hydrochoerus) DuU hazel. / Brown eye but no reflection. 

Lagomorpha 
leporidae: 

Varying hare or snowshoe rabbit (Lepus amer- 
icanui) Medium amber, medium brilliance. / Orange. 

Artiodactyla 
bovidae: 

Aoud&d (Ammotragua lervia) Silver. C. 

Anoa (Anoa depressicornii) Brownish red. C. 

Gaur (Bibos gauTus) (2). Brilliant gold. / Silver. 0. 

Oayal {Bot frontalis) Gold. C. 

White-tailed gnu {Connochaetes gnu) (2) Brilliant greenish-silver. 

African buffalo (Synceroa ca^er) (2) Bright silvery greenish gold. /Silver. C. 

tragulidae: 

Javan mouse deer (Tragutut javanicus) Copper, silvery, pale preen. / Brilliant silvery with pale 

blue-green tinge. / Greenish silver, then golden. Re- 
flects over wide angle and when light is directed at 

wide angle. Brilliant. 
cervidae: 

Axis deer (Axis axis) - Silvery with faint greenish tinge. / Pale amber. 

Barasingha deer (Cervus duvaucellii) Green, silver, and gold. 

Balking deer (Muntiacus javanica) Golden. O. 

Barking deer (Muntiacus sinicus) Female, 1 eye gold, 1 eye silver. C. 

camelidae: 

Llama (Lama glama) Orange. / Orange. 

girafftdae: 

QiraHe (Qiraffa camelopardalis) (4) Greenish silvery gold. / Bright silver. C. 

hippopotamidae: 

Pigmy hippopotamus (Choeropsii liberiensis)..- Gold (wide angle). / Brownish red. C. 

Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius).... Gold (very wide angle). / Gold. C. 

Perissodactyla 
equidae: 

Asiatic wild ass or kiang (Eguus onager) Silvery, pale amber. Wide angle. / Silver. 

Mongolian wild horse (Equut przewalskii) Silver. / Silvery, pale amber. 

Chapman's zebra (Eguus quagga chapmani)... Brilliant silver with gold tinge. / Silver. C. 

Mountain zebra (Eguus zebra) Dull silver. 

tapiridae: 

Asiatic tapir (Acrocodia indicus) Brilliant gold. / Brownish red. C. 

Baird's tapir (Tapirella bairdii) Brilliant gold. / Brownish red. C. 

Brazttian taph (Tapirus terrestris).. Ruby red. C. 

rhinocebotidae: 

Black rhinoceros (I>;cero« fcicornij) Dull red. C. 

Proboscidea 
elephantidae: 

Sumatran elephant (E/ep/ia* *«ma<ran««) Red. C. 

African elephant (Loxodonta africana oryotis)... Pale silvery. / Red. C. 

Edentata 
choloepodidae: 

Two-toed sloth (Cfto/ofpu»(iirfadv'«s) Brightred. C. 

dasypodidae: 

Six-banded armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus) Light dull brown. 

BIRDS 
Casuarhformes 
casuabiidae: 

Cassowary (Ca«uorm»sp.) Amber. C. 



358 .ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Casuakhformes— Continued 

deomickiidae: 

Common emu {DroiniceiusnovaehoUandlat) Dull amber. 

Spheniscifobues 
spheniscidae; 

Jackass penguin (Sp/ien««cui de»nersu*) Gold. C. 

Pelecanitormes 

PHAL ACROCOB ACID AE : 

Flightless cormorant {Nannopterum harrisi)... Dull pale amber, 
Farallon cormorant (.Phalacrocorax auritus 

albociliatus) Brilliant silver. 

Florida cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus florU 

danus) Gold. O. 

fregatidae: 

Lesser frigate bird {Fregata ariel) Silver. C. 

CICONUFOEME3 
ARDEIDAS: 

American egret {Casmerodius albus egretta)... Silver. O. 

Snowy egiet {Egretta thuta) Gold and silver. C. 

Louisiana heron (H2/(iranaMo<n'co<orrM^coi/j«). Gold and silver. G. 

Black-crowned night heron {Nycticorax nycti- 

corai naevius) Silver. 

cochleariidae: 

Boatbill heron (CochUarius cochlearius) Silvery pale gold. Ruby red. C. 

balaenicipitidae: 

Shoe-bill stork (BataenJcepa rex) Amber. C. 

scopidae: 

Hammerhead (Scopu* UTTjftretta) Silver. O. 

ciconudae: 

Woolly-necked stork (DJMOMra fpiscopws) Silver. O. 

Saddle-billed stork (Ephippiorhynchus senega- 
Uruii) Bright gold. C. 

Malay stork (/6ijdnere««) Silver. C. 

Indian adjutant (.LeptoptUus dubius) Gold. C. 

THRESKIOENIimDAE: 

Roseate spoonbill (y4Jata a joja)— Ruby red. C. 

phoenicoptkkidae: 

Chilean flamingo (.Phoenicoptems chilensis) Ruby red. C. 

anseriformes 
anatidae; 

Wood duck (Aix sponsa) Silvery gold. 

Black-bellied tree duck {Dendrocygna autumn- 
alis) Gold to silver. C. 

Falconifoemes 
cathaetidab: 

California condor (.Qymnogyps calif ornianut).. Faint pale gold. 

ACCIPITEroAK: 

Red-tailed hawk {Buteo borealis) No reflection. / None. 

Red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus) Faint silvery. 

Gallifoemes 
megapodhdae: 

Molucca megapode (Meffapodmi/reffctnrfO Gold. C. 

ceacidae: 

Panama curassow (Cr 01 rufcra) Bright gold. C. 

PHA.SIANIDAE: 

Chukar partridge (^iectori»(;ra«ca). Gold. C. 

Argus pheasant (Argusianus argus) Silver. /Bright gold. C. 

Cheer pheasant (Cairew* waWicAJi) Gold. 0. 

Migratory quail (Coterniicofurnjz).. Silver. C. 

Jungle tov?] (Gallus gallus) Gold. C. 

Green peafowl (Popo muticuj) Bright gold. C. 

Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianut torguatus).. Silvery to pale brass. 



EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT — WALKER 359 

Qruiformes 
Oeuidae: 

Demoiselle crane (Anthropoidet virgo) Silvery to pale brass. / Gold. O. 

Sandhill crane (Grus canadensis tabida) Silvery to pale brass. 

psoPHncAE: 

Gray-backed trumpeter (Psophia crepitans)... Amber. C. 
hallidae: 

New Zealand mud hen (Porphyrio melanotui) . . Silver. C. 

Gray-headed porphyrio (.Porphyrio poliocepha- 
lus) Silver. O. 

CHAEADRUf OEM US 

haematopodidae: 

European oyster catcher (Haematopat oslrale- 

gus)... Gold. O. 

charadeiidae: 

South American Lapwing (Belonopterus cayen- 

nensit) Silver. C. 

laeidae: 

Silver gull {Lams novaehoUandiae) (50) No shine. / No shine. 

COLUMBirOEMES 

colxjmbidae: 

Nicobar pigeon (Ca/oena» fiicoftarica) Silver. C. 

Archangel pigeon {Columbia livia) (domestic).. Gold. C. 
Victoria crowned pigeon (Gowra firtoria). Gold. C. 

psittacif0rme3 
psittacidae: 

Yellow-naped parrot {Amazona auropalliaia).. Gold. E. and O. 
Double yellow-head parrot {Amazona oratrix).. Gold. E. and O. 

Dliger's macaw {Ara maracana). Gold. E. and C. 

Mexican green macaw {Ara mexicana) Gold. E. and C. 

Banksian cockatoo {Calyptorhynchus mag- 

nificus) Silver. E. and C. 

Sulphur-crested cockatoo {Kakaloe galerita) Silver. E. and C. 

Leadbeater's cockatoo (iiTataioe /ead6ea?en') Silver. E. and O. 

Slender-billed cockatoo {Kakatoe tenuirosiris).. Silver. E. and C. 

Cockatiel {Leptolophus novaehotlandicus) Gold. E. and C. 

Quaker paroquet {Myopsita monachus) Gold. E. and C. 

Kramer's paroquet {Paittacula krameri) Gold. E. and C. 

Long-tailed paroquet {Psittacula longicauda)... Gold. E. and 0. 

Strigitormes 

STEtGIDAE: 

Great horned owl (J3«6o virginianus) Orange, medium brilliance. / Different individuals: 

greenish silvery gold; medium brilliance; golden red. 

Screech owl {Otusasio) Ruby red. 

Barred owl {Strix varia). Orange, brilliant. / Fairly brilliant deep gold. 

Capeimulgifoemes 
fodaegidae: 

Tawny frogmouth {Podargus strigoides) Ruby red. C. 

Cobaciifoemes 
alcedinidak: 

Kookaburra (Dom/o fftpas) Gold. C. 

momotidae: 

Motmot {Momotus momotus parensis) Gold. O. 

buceeotidae: 

Long-crested hornbill {Berenicornis comatus).. Amber. O. 

Rhinoceros hombill (Buceros r/i!7ioc«ros) Green gold. C, 

Abyssinian ground hornbill {Bucorvus abyssin- 
icus). Gold. C. 

Concave casque hornbill (Z)icfto«ro«6icornii).. Gold. G. 

Pied hornbill (//i/droa'ssa concf/a) Silver. O. 



360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

FiCIFOBHES 

ramphastidah: 

Toco toucsLU {Ramphastos toco) Silver. C. 

Passerifobhes 
corvidak: 

American crow ( Corvus brachyrh ynchos) Silver. C . 

Australian crow (Corptw coronoid«s) Silver. C. 

paradiseidak: 

Lesser bird of paradise (.Paradisea minor) Gold. C. 

Red bird of paradise (Paradwea r«6ra) Gold. C. 

12-wired bird of paradise (Seleucides niger) Gold. C. 

sturnidae: 

Glossy aplonis (.Aplonis chalvbea) Ruby red . C . 

icteridak: 

Cuban red-winged blackbird (.Agelaim assim- 
His) — - Silver. C. 

REPTILES 

loricata 
crocodylidae: 

Alligator (Alligator mississipiensia) (15) Brilliant pinkish orange glow. 

Caiman (Caiman sckrops) (3) Very brilliant pinkish orange glow. Effect of looking 

far into the eye. 
West African crocodile (Crocodylus cataprac- 

tus) (1) Brilliant pinkish orange glow. 

Salt- water crocodile (Crocodylus porosus) Pinkish orange glow. 

Broad-nosed crocodile (Osteolaemustetraspis).. Brilliant pinkish orange glow. 
Malayan gavial (Tomistoma schlegeli)... Pinkish orange glow. 

Squamata 

No satisfactory shine observed from any of 
about 25 species of lizards. 

QPHIDU 

boidae: 

Green tree boa (Boa canina) Brilliant lemon. 

Cook's tree boa (Boa cooki) Bright orange. 

colubridae: 

Pike-headed tree snake (.Oxybelis acuminatus). Pale golden, fairly bright. 
crotalidae: 

Copperhead (Agkistrodon mokasen) Faint glisten. 

viperidae: 

Gaboon viper (Bitia gabonica) Dull pale silver. 

AMPHIBIA 

Salientia 
bttfonidab: 

Sapo de concha (Bufo empusus) Dull pale orange. 

Cuban giant toad (Bufo peltocephalua) Amber, medium brilliance. 

Leaf toad (Bufo tuperciiiosm) Amber. 

CEEATOPHRYD AE : 

Horned toad ( Ceratophrys dorsata) Brilliant medium amber. 

HruDAB: 

Australian tree frog (Hyla caerulea) Brilliant pale amber. 

Cuba tree frog (Hyla septentrionalis) Deep amber, medium brilliance 

FISHES 
Zebra fish (Brachydanion rerio) Brilliant silver. 



THE CHINESE MITTEN CRAB 



By A. Panning, 
Hamburg, Germany 



[With nine plates] 

PREFACE 

The assumption that animals settle in new lands beyond the borders 
of their native habitats and thus extend the range of their habitation 
often plays an important part in zoogeography. Such assumptions 
are very plausible in many cases, but they are usually diflScult to 
prove, because these assumed happenings took place so far back in 
the history of the earth. Extensive studies have been made in our 
times about animals living in regions far away from their original hab- 
itats. Some of these animals have been intentionally transplanted by 
man and some have been brought in unintentionally on commercial 
carriers, as on ships, for instance. One of the very best and most 
recent examples of this is the presence of the Chinese mitten crab in 
the North Sea and in the Baltic countries following the opening of 
extensive shipping between Germany and eastern Asia. This mitten 
crab was almost unnoticed for years but during the latter part of the 
past decade has increased enormously and has developed suddenly 
into a serious danger to the fishing industry. The necessity of effec- 
tively fighting these obstructive crabs has led to thorough scientific 
investigations into all their characteristics and everything about them. 
The lively maritime traffic between Germany and eastern Asia will 
continue to leave many ways open for the further distribution of this 
resistant and adaptable crustacean, and a short account of its intro- 
duction into Europe, its distribution over Germany and neighboring 
countries, and its characteristics and ways and habits may be of 
general interest. 

THE MITTEN CRAB'S ORIGINAL HABITAT 

The genus Eriocheir is a native of eastern Asia and contains three 
species. The Japanese mitten crab (Eriocheir japonicus de Haan) 
inhabits the Japanese islands from Formosa in the south to the 
southern point of Sakhalin in the north, also the coast of the Asiatic 

361 



362 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN" INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



mainland across from Japan, the eastern coast of Korea, the coast 
northward to Vladivostok and perhaps even a little farther north. 
In Japan it goes far up into the mountains, and in these mountainous 
regions it is called the mountain crab. 

The Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis H. Milne-Edwards) 




FiGtJEE 1.— Distribution of genus Eriocheir^m East Asia; horizontal lines; region of habitat of the Japanese 
mitten crab; vertical lines: region of the Chinese mitten crab; dotted region: habitat of Eriocheir leptognathus 
Rathbun. 

(pl. I) inhabits China from the province of Fokien in the south to the 
west coast of the Korean Peninsula (by the Yellow Sea) in the north. 
Its principal habitat is, however, north of Shanghai. Even though it 
is found far inland, it nevertheless seems to prefer regions near the 
coast, Kobayashi says that in Korea it always settles in the rice- 



CHINESE MITTEN CRAB — PANNING 363 

fields near the coast and that farther inland it lives only in the rivers. 
The species of Eriocheir leptognathus described by Dr. Mary J. Rathbun 
inhabits China from the province of Fokin in the south, where it is 
very rare, to the Liaotung peninsula on the Yellow Sea in the north. 
Its principal habitat is north of Shanghai (fig. 1). 

The mitten crab belongs to the Grapsoid family group which is 
phylogenetically the newest group of the brachyuran crustaceans. 
The Grapsoid crabs are animals of the Tropics, but a few forms reach 
into the Temperate Zone, and the mitten crab is one of them. Thus 
it happens that we see characteristics in an animal living in the Tem- 
perate Zone which really belong only to animals living in the Topics. 
The Grapsoid crabs are marine animals, and it is an outstrnding 
characteristic of all marine crabs that larvae escape from thear eggs 
to drift free and pass through various stages before settling ion the 
bottom. Thereby they differ fundamentally from all real fresh-water 
crabs which do not go through these stages when the larvae drift, 
about free. A whole group of Grapsoid crabs spend their adolescence 
in brackish or fresh water where they find especially rich feeding 
However, that is the only time they do live in brackish or fresh water. 
They must always breed in the ocean. The larvae escape from the 
egg in the ocean and pass through the free-drifting larval stages in salt 
or brackish water, but however far they may venture into fresh water 
they must always return to the ocean for reproduction. The Grap- 
soid crabs, therefore, prefer regions close to the coast when they seek 
fresh water. Our mitten crab belongs to this group. 

HOW THE MITTEN CRAB WAS BROUGHT INTO GERMANY 

The mitten crabs live in the Temperate Zone in eastern Asia up into 
the far north. This fact has made possible their transfer to temperate 
Central Europe and to cold-temperate northern Europe. Their 
presence in Germany was probably made possible because of their 
reproduction tlii-ough free-drifting larvae brought to Germany on 
commercial vessels. When the ships happened to fill their ballast 
water tanks in central or north Chinese ports during the larvae's 
spawning time, the 1.7- to 5-mm larvae of the mitten crab would, of 
course, get into the tanks, and again when the tanks were emptied in 
the German port the young mitten crabs, a few millimeters long, into 
which the larvae had developed during the trip, would, of course, get 
into one of the German rivers emptying into the North Sea. This could 
go on unnoticed year after year. They were undoubtedly brought 
in long ago. The first Chinese mitten crab, a large male, was dis- 
covered in the Aller, a tributary to the Weser, in 1912. One can thus 
consider that these crabs were first brought in during the first decade 
of this century, and their entry therefore coincides to a certain extent 



364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

with the establishment of intensive maritime traffic with eastern Asia. 
A specimen was first brought to me for identification in 1923 and a 
decade and a half or perhaps two may well have passed after they 
had first been introduced before we became fully aware of this new 
inhabitant in German waters. 

It must seem astonishing that the mitten crab has increased within 
a period of perhaps three and a half decades in the German rivers in 
such an alarming degree. This tremendous increase was undoubtedly 
aided by the fact that they were not brought in fully grown but in 
large numbers as larvae or when very young. However, this enor- 
mous increase in such a short time was above all aided by the partic- 
ular conditions in the German rivers. 

The German rivers ceased long ago to be just rivers and became 
waterways, navigation highways, and traffic arteries. This change 
of the German rivers has made existence impossible for many native 
animals, as, for instance, for the predatory fishes which would have 
been of the greatest importance in fighting and checking these mitten 
crabs. Conditions were thus created under which this extraordinarily 
resistant mitten crab has been able to establish itself. 

THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE MITTEN CRAB IN GERMANY 

Although the mitten crab was found first in the Weser Kiver system 
(in AUer near Rethem in 1912), it has not been seen there since. By 
later questioning Elbe fishermen, it was found that the crabs had 
appeared as a by-catch in the flounder fisheries by the mouth of the 
Elbe since about 1915. They seem hardly to have left the lower 
tide-water region after that. They were first seen in the upper tide- 
water regions above Hamburg in 1926, and by 1927 they were there in 
great masses. A few years later they flooded the waters of the mid 
Elbe (Havel, Province of Brandenburg) to such an extent that it 
became necessary to take measures to check them. By 1930 the lower 
sections of the Weser, as well as the lower and mid sections of the 
Elbe, were thickly infested with these crabs. In the late twenties they 
began to spread westward into the Ems and eastward into the Oder. 
They found their way westward from the Weser into the Ems through 
the many streams and canals in northern Oldenburg and eastward into 
the Oder through the waterways leading from the Elbe through 
Brandenburg. And with the beginning of this decade they com- 
menced to spread westward from the Ems into northern Holland and 
through the Midland Canal and the Rhine into southern Holland, 
northern Belgium, and northern France. They have gradually estab- 
lished a particular breeding ground in the region of the Danish Great 
and Lesser Belt in the Baltic. Mitten crabs that had reached the Oder 
from the Elbe through Brandenburg, have with all certainty helped 
to establish these breeding grounds inasmuch as, upon reaching 



CHINESE MITTEN CRAB — PANNING 



365 



maturity, they naturally moved on downstream into the Baltic in 
their hunt for salt water. And they may have come through the 
North Sea — Baltic Canal (Kiel Canal) as well. They have spread 
from these breeding grounds in the Great and Lesser Belt in the 
Baltic to Denmark, southeastern Sweden, East Prussia, southern 
Finland, and in some instances, to some of the adjoining countries on 
the Baltic. Today, according to Dr. Peters, lower and mid Elve as 
far as into Saxony, the Weser below Bremen, and the coast regions 
of Germany and Holland from the Elbe to the Rhine are thicldy 
infested with them. In other sections they are only sparse (fig. 2). 




DEUTSCHLAND 



Figure 2.— Distribution of the Chinese mitten crab; horizontal lines: now inhabited region; dotted region: 
_z ^ ... very heavily inhabited. 

REPRODUCTION 

The mitten crab is, during its whole life, practically a fresh-water 
animal and is found hundreds of kilometers upstream in thickly in- 
fested rivers. With the development of the sex instinct, the urge for 
the sea also awakens in them, and in August, or after, they leave their 
feeding grounds, often located far inland, to move on downstream to 
the sea. The sex organs develop during this migration and the crabs 
reach puberty on the last lap of the journey through the usually brack- 
ish water in the tidal regions. In the fall they always gather to breed 
in large swarms in the brackish water in the lower course of the rivers. 



366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

The males come first and remain through the whole winter while the 
females come later, mate, and start immediately afterward to move on 
down to the sea. The eggs are laid within 24 hours after mating and 
are fastened to the small hairs on the pleopods on the underside of the 
abdomen with a cementlike substance which hardens in salt water. 
This cementlike substance hardens only in water that has a salt con- 
tent of more than 2.5 percent, according to F. Buhk. The females, 
burdened with the weight of the eggs on the pleopods under their abdo- 
mens, choose to stay on in the deep water outside the river mouths 
through the winter. As soon as it gets warm in the spring, the tiny 
larvae escape from the eggs to start to drift about free (pi. 2). In all 
probability the females hunt up particularly brackish water for this 
purpose. In June or July, after all the larvae have left the eggs, both 
males and females set out for the river banks at the mouths of the 
rivers, where they gradually perish. 

The intermittent stay in fresh water, and these long journeys far 
inland between birth and death, which both take place in salt water, 
bring about the peculiar character of the life cycle of these mitten 
crabs. They cannot repeat these long journeys to reproduce every 
year or two, which other crawfishes do, because the distances are too 
great. Breeding has, therefore, been put off to the last part of their 
life span. But under normal circumstances this single breeding period 
is compensated by an enormous egg production. The crabs, males and 
females alike, are therefore completely exhausted and worn out after 
mating, and waste away gradually. It is a sign of their generally 
fading strength that they are so covered with barnacles (Balanidae) 
(pi. 3) in the summer during their stay in the North Sea shallows, 
that they hardly move about at all; indeed they often cannot move even 
their mouth parts. They lack the strength to shed their shells which 
would enable them to get rid of these cumbersome barnacles. 

Whereas the eggs need pure salt water to mature, the larvae leave 
the eggs in very brackish water. The prezoea, a free-drifting larva, 
leaves the egg and develops immediately into a 1.7-mm zoea (pi. 2, a). 
Subsequently, three additional larval stages follow. These larvae 
probably move gradually into less bracldsh water. The last zoea 
develops into the final larval stage, the 3-4-mm-long megalopa (pi. 2, 
6). The change from the free-drifting life of the zoea, with long sus- 
pended thorns and a rudderlike tail, to the more uneventful life of the 
crab on the bottom takes place in the megalopa. The megalopa are 
brought into fresh water with high tide and develop there into tiny 
mitten crabs, 2.5 to 3 mm long, the first stage of bottom life (pi. 2, c). 

This migration from salt to fresh water in the larval stage and from 
fresh to salt water as adults toward the end of their life, is a distin- 
guishing habit of the mitten crab, and, when considered biologically, 
the mitten crab appears to be in the act of becoming a fresh-water 



CHINESE MITTEN CRAB — PANNING 367 

animal. This transition demands important readjustment in their 
(body) system. Their life substance has the same salt concentration 
as sea water and therefore differs greatly from that of fresh water. 
Whereas animals in sea water, with equal salt concentration inside as 
outside the body, are not imperiled through any osmotic action, life in 
fresh water demands equalization, and the constant absorption of 
water by osmotic action thi'ough unprotected places in the body, as for 
instance through the gills, is retroacted by increased water outlet 
through the kidneys. Otherwise the plasma would be destroyed 
through continuous swelling. The migration of the tender mitten 
crab larvae from the sea into fresh water with its added requirement 
for body functions, therefore, implies strong intrinsic power. 

THE BREEDING PERIOD 

Although the time of mating and the laying of eggs is fairly fixed, 
beginning about the end of October and lasting until January, the 
larvae's hatching time changes very much depending upon the weather. 
When springs are warm, which does not happen often, at least not 
in northwestern Germany, the larvae hatch sometime between the 
end of March and May or June. But the time for hatching usually 
comes considerably later and lasts until far into July. Thus their 
whole development is, of course, delayed. During warm springs, 
the megalopae may appear in July or August in the fresh water 
below Hamburg, and there develop into the first bottom stage, but 
during unfavorable weather their appearance is delayed until October. 
In 1933, when it was exceptionally warm, the young mitten crabs 
reached an average length of 10 mm in October but again in 1935 and 
1936, when the weather was unfavorable, their average size was only 
4 to 7 mm when they went into winter rest. 

THE WANDERINGS OF THE MITTEN CRAB 

The migration of the larvae into the fresh water in the upper tidal 
regions is (probably) aided by the tidal currents. These feeding 
grounds are very rich, and the wanderings could have continued to 
end here, as they did up to the beginning of the twenties, if the number 
of the crabs had not increased so tremendously. It was this enormous 
increase that forced them to move on farther upstream in their 
search for food. But the crabs are too small at first to be able to 
make their way upstream against the strong current. During their 
first summer in their larval stage they are brought with the tidal 
current into fresh water, and during their second summer they stay 
there in the coast regions where the water recedes at ebb tide until 
they grow sufficiently to enable them to wander on. 



368 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



In the late fall the crabs return in large masses to deep water for 
winter rest, causing such crowding in the narrow river-channels that 
the young ones, then in their second year, are not strong enough to 
fight for a place for winter rest there and are, therefore, forced to 
move on. 

Consequently, as the catches by the dam in the Weser by Bremen 
show, the young animals begin to move on upstream in the beginning 
of winter but only sparsely during the cold weather in January and 
February. As soon as it gets a little warmer in March, these crabs, 
not yet 2 years old, commence to migrate upstream in such huge masses 
that more than 30,000 of them are caught and destroyed daily in 
Bremen in traps specially constructed for this purpose. The con- 
gestion is lifted when the crabs again swarm out into the shallow 
regions with the advent of warmer weather in the beginning of May. 

These swarms, which once migrated from the tidal regions, are now 




IV V VI VII VIII 

FiauEE 3.— Catch of mitten crabs at Doemitz, Germany, during April, May, June, July, and August, 1937 _ 

forced to wander farther on because rivers that have been converted 
into navigation arteries do not hold sufficient nutriment for them. It 
is a wandering without a goal. Wherever a canal, or a rivulet, 
empties into the river some of the crabs always leave the large swarms 
to move into it. But in the Elbe, from Hamburg on, they have very 
few opportunities to branch off into suitable feeding grounds. The 
crabs heading upstream are, therefore, forced to remain for a long 
time in huge swarms. Only the Elde near Doemitz (in Mecklenburg), 
the Havel and the Saole can accommodate these swarms and conse- 
quently receive heavy visitations of the crabs. In these three rivers 
the migration begins in April about the time when it already has 
reached or passed its height in the tidal region, and continues into 
August. In Doemitz (in Mecklenburg) 44,400 kg of mitten crabs 
moving upstream were caught in specially constructed traps by the 
dam in the Elde rivulet m 1936, and 34,925 kg in 1937. As the curve 
(fig. 3) shows, the migration and the catch commence suddenly in 



CHINESE MITTEN CRAB — PANNING 369 

April and decrease temporarily during the end of May and eariy June, 
probably as a result of a shedding which takes place about this time. 
The migration is at its height in June and July and falls off during 
August. The swarms that penetrate into the Havel are even larger. 
About 100,000 kg of crabs were caught there in similar traps in 1936 
(pi. 4, fig. 1). And even as far up in the Saole as Calbe 42,500 kg 
were caught in 1936. The migration decreases considerably higher 
up in the Elbe beyond the mouth of the Saole, inasmuch as the 
greater mass has branched off into suitable feeding grounds. In 
single instances only do they penetrate as far as through Saxony into 
Czechoslovakia. The mitten crabs, as we see, indeed, accomplish 
extraordinary wandering feats. The distance which the tiny larvae 
travel from the sea up to the vicinity of Hamburg is about 100 km, 
the distance along the Elbe from Hamburg to Doemitz about 120 km, 
from Hamburg to Garz on the Havel 220 km, and from Hamburg to 
Calbe on the Saole 350 km. 

I have ascertained through marking tests the rate of speed at which 
the young crabs travel upstream against the current and in doing this 
I have marked the backs of 13,000 mitten crabs with good ship's 
paint of different colors during series of experiments in the Weser, 
the Elbe, the Havel, and the Saole. The crabs were placed in lots 
of 1,000 specimens at certain distances apart below the traps and the 
time was noted when the marked crabs again landed in the traps from 
which they had been taken previously. The evolution of these 
13 experiments showed that the small animals, migrating from the 
tidal region in the lower course of the Weser, traveled a distance of 
1 to 1.5 km daily and that the larger ones, moving against the current 
in mid Elbe, a distance of 2 to 3 km daily. In their upstream mi- 
gration, they reach the Havel during the first summer and the Saole 
during the second summer. 

When the mitten crabs have reached their full growth in the interior 
of Germany, they leave and wander back to the sea to reproduce. 
A shedding of the shell precedes this downstream migration so the 
crabs start out with thin, light shells and subtle elastic synovial 
membranes. The migration commences everywhere simultaneously 
in August and is in all certainty induced by incipient growth of the 
sex glands, inasmuch as the sex organs begin to develop in these 
migrating crabs during their wandering through mid Elbe. The 
migration downstream decreases slowly in mid Elbe during October 
after its height in September, whereas the migration continues in its 
lower course into November. The rate of speed at which these crabs 
travel has also been ascertained through experiments with color 
markings (pi. 4, fig. 2). In the course of four experiments, 1,600 
crabs were marked and set adrift in the Havel and the Weser. Of the 
crabs which were captured, the three which traveled the longest dis- 



370 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

tances had the highest average: (1) Total distance 338 km, time 29 
days, or 12 km per day. (2) Total distance 257 km, time 43 days, or 
8 km per day. (3) Total distance 368 km, time 38 days, or 10 km 
per day. These large crabs in the spawning swarm consequently 
travel downstream at the considerable rate of speed of 8 to 12 km 
per day and thus can reach the breeding places in the bracldsh water 
in 2 to 3 months even from the more remote regions. 

It is not surprising that the young animals cease their slow wander- 
ing upstream in midsummer when the old animals commence their 
rapid dowTistream migration, because the young animals are forced to 
leave the channel in midstream when the two swarms meet. 

SHEDDING OF THE SHELL, GROWTH, AND LIFE SPAN 

The vertebrates, with their inner skeletons covered with a network 
of living cells, grow evenly and inconspicuously, but arthropods, with 
their dead outer armor, grow by leaps. The chitinous armor rein- 
forced by deposits of lime must from time to time be thrown off and 
renewed because it ages quicldy, breaks and becomes useless. Besides, 
growth is possible only by shedding the shell because the dead outer 
shell cannot be enlarged through growth as do the bones of the 
vertebrates. It must, therefore, from time to time be thrown off 
and replaced with a new and larger one. Preparation for the shedding 
of the armor is made in the forming of a new, thin, elastic shell under 
the old one. The blood pressure now increases through the absorption 
of water. The old armor bursts in the rear end between the carapace 
and the abdomen, the crab glides out backward and expands at the 
same time. The blood pressure produced to burst the old and expand 
the new shell is so great that the crab after shedding can move on 
its elastic legs mthout caving in. The new shell hardens through 
absorption of calcareous deposits. This peculiar periodic mode of 
growth with the shedding of the shell restricts the mitten crab to a 
comparatively slow growth. In growth through sudden expansion, 
limits are set to the elasticity, inasmuch as overexpansion would 
tear many organs. According to investigations made by Dr. Schu- 
bert, the length added by shedding is 24 percent in the smallest 
animals but decreases as they increase in size and is only 11 percent 
in the largest crabs, which are more than 70 mm long. The number of 
sheddings per year are limited and evidently strictly regulated. The 
gullet, the stomach, and the rectum, which reaches almost to the 
stomach, are coated with chitin and are shed mth the shell. They 
must consequently be empty at the time of shedding. The shedding, 
is, therefore, preceded by a period of fasting. The fasting continues 
until the jaws harden. According to Dr. Schubert, the mitten crabs 
shed 6 to 8 times during their first year, 4 to 5 times during their 



CHINESE MITTEN CRAB — PANNING 371 

second year, and 2 to 3 times during their third year. The older 
crabs shed only once a year. 

As the hatching of the larvae is usually completed in July, I count 
the years of life of the mitten crabs as running from July to July. 
Thus, according to my investigations, the average length of the crabs 
is: the 1-year-olds about 13 mm; the 2-year-olds about 25 mm; the 
3-year-olds about 36 to 38 mm. I estimate that the crabs about 56 
mm long in the spawning swarms are 5 years old. 

NUTRIMENT 

In discussions on the evil of the mitten crabs the question has 
always been an important one as to whether they attack and eat 
fishes. It is easy to imderstand that every fisherman whose catch 
falls off in vicinities where there are mitten crabs vows that they are 
wanton destroyers of fishes. But the question is not so easily solved. 
Timid fishes lose out, to be sure, where there are mitten crabs, and 
the crabs do attack fishes that have been caught in nets, thus having 
lost freedom of movement. They are omnivorous and eat whatever 
they can get. That does not prove, however, that slow mitten crabs 
catch speedy fishes at liberty. We have, in fact, kept fishes and 
mitten crabs together for long periods in the same aquarium, a 
mitten crab and a perch occupying the same corner, the fish directly 
above the crab without being molested by it. Dr. H. Thiel has 
proved through examinations of contents of stomachs of mitten 
crabs that the largest portion of their food comes from the vegetable 
kingdom, but they must to some extent get their food from the 
animal kingdom as the lime that is necessary to harden the shell 
otherwise would be lacldng. They eat worms, especially Tubifex, 
mussels and snails, inferior crustaceans, water insects, insect larvae, 
and even dead substance of organic origin. Remains of fishes were 
found only in 4 to 5 stomachs of 1,000 mitten crabs, and these came 
from a region with huge swarms of young fishes. It may have been 
the remains of cadavers of young fishes that had served the crabs 
as food. 

VOLUNTARY MUTILATION AND REGENERATION 

The mitten crabs, Hke all higher Crustacea, are able to throw off 
their pincer and walking legs and grow new ones at the same time with 
their next new shell. This ability enables them often to save them- 
selves when they are attacked. With lightning speed they discard 
the leg the attacker has seized and then rush off. At the base of all 
10 legs, between two joints which have grown together, there is another 
joint with a very thin shell. Through certain muscular contraction 
whereby the adjoining leg serves as lever, the endangered leg is broken 

114728—39 25 



372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

off in this joint. The same thing happens in cases of injuries. The 
wound caused by the breaking off of the leg is immediately closed with 
a thin membrane already formed so that all loss of blood is avoided. 

Shortly before the next shedding takes place, a bud grows through 
the scar where the leg was severed and in it is formed a regenerated 
leg folded in two (pi. 5). It straightens out in the next shedding but 
is at first somewhat smaller than the discarded limb and lacks always 
the characteristic pUroe, which makes the fishermen think that they 
here have an entirely different animal when they find a mitten crab 
with two regenerated pincers in their by-catch. This lack of pilroe 
on the regenerated limb is interpreted as a retrogression to an original 
hairless form, but proof to this effect is lacldng (pi. 5), 

How much of this self-mutilation is dependent on the ability to 
renew discarded limbs is realized by the fact that the crabs are very 
Httle inclined to self-mutilation when the time for the next shedding 
is still remote. 

MITTEN CRAB BURROWS 

It is known that many tropical crustaceans that five in tidal regions 
on the coast or in the river mouths dig burrows for themselves into 
which they retire during ebb tide. The mitten crabs do it also in the 
tidal regions of German rivers. We find their burrows in firm marsh 
bottoms everywhere on the banks of the Elbe tributaries and in 
canals which dry out in ebb tide. It is easy to recognize their low 
and wide entrances and not to confuse them with the roimd openings 
to the burrows of the water voles. The burrows are always dug to 
slant downward and filled with water, which makes it possible for the 
crabs to await here the return of the water with high tide. Where the 
burrows are numerous, the imdermined shore finally caves in and 
thus the mitten crabs are the cause of considerable damage in many 
places (pi. 6). 

DAMAGE CAUSED TO FISHING 

Fishermen maintain that the mitten crab catches and eats fishes in 
open waters. However, this does not tally. The healthy fish is 
much too quick and the mitten crab much too slow for that. Fisher- 
men maintain also that the crab destroys the spawn and the fry. 
This could hardly be the case either. But in other ways they do a 
lot of damage, as for instance when fishes like fiounders are caught 
in place nets. When the net reaches the bottom the crabs crawl 
high up on the net, eating the defenseless fish and becoming entangled 
with their many legs in the fine net threads. In their attempts to 
escape they tangle up the nets and finally cut them into pieces with 
their jaws. To the loss in catch there is added the destruction of 
nets and the loss of time caused by the constantly necessary mending 



CHINESE MITTEN CRAB — PANNING 373 

of damaged nets. When mitten crabs are caught as a by-catch m 
dragnet fishing, not only is the fish injured and made useless for sale 
by rubbing against the crab's toothed armor, but the nets wear out 
much sooner and must be replaced more often. It is estimated that 
the resulting cost of nets is tripled in many regions. When mitten 
crabs come upon eel-basket pots, they swarm into them, attracted 
perhaps by the scent, and as a result the eels do not go in, or if they 
do, they are devoured. In central Germany large hoop nets with 
which to catch the eels heading for the sea are often laid out behind 
the sluice gate. The crabs migrating in the fall unfortunately take 
the same route and are consequently caught in these hoop nets. When, 
as happens in Havel, up to 500 kg of mitten crabs are caught in a 
single night in a hoop net, the chances for eel fishing are impossible. 
As eel fishing is the most important source of HveHhood for the fisher- 
men in many regions, it is very easy to understand that the fishermen 
demand that adequate steps be taken to ward off their peril. 

MEANS OF CONTROL 

It is true that some predatory fishes and some aquatic birds and 
waterfowl devour the mitten crabs, but this means of exterminating 
them is altogether ineffective because of the crabs' enormous and 
rapid increase. The possibility of preventing their reproduction by 
catching the breeding swarms in the river mouths has been discussed, 
but however logical the idea may seem, considerable difficulties stand 
in the way of carrying it out. But more favorable opportunities 
to control the crabs have presented themselves in the interior of 
Germany. 

The mitten crabs travel on the bottom of the rivers, forcing their 
way upstream where the current is strongest, and pile up below any 
dam that temporarily stops them in their wandering. Advantage of 
this opportunity is taken by the Weser dams in Bremen. Barrels 
covered with wire netting or canvas are lowered with davits to the 
bottom of the Weser. The crabs, jammed in against the dam, 
crawl high up on the barrels, fall into them and are caught in this 
way. In 1935 from January to May, 12,166 kg of mitten crabs 
(3,444,680 specimens) were caught, the greatest amount at one time 
being 407 kg (113,960 specimens) on April 15, 1935. In 1936, 12,786 
kg (2,941,100 specimens) were taken. 

When crabs are jammed below a dam they try in many ways to 
get by the obstacle. They crawl up on the walls and finally out on 
the shore, so as to pass the dam by land. It was thus that it was 
first learned what enormous masses of mitten crabs infest the German 
rivers. During warm summer nights the shore region is black with 
crabs; one cannot take a step without treading on them. In places 
where a dam is close to a city, it happens occasionally that mitten 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

crabs land on city streets and finally even penetrate into houses. 
This happened in 1931 in Eathenow on the Havel, in 1936 in a suburb 
of Magdeburg, and in 1938 in Calbe on Saole. The habit of the mitten 
crabs to leave the river bed led to the main methods used in Germany 
to control them. Where the mitten crabs leave the river in their 
efforts to get by the obstructing dam by land, extensive shore regions 
below the dam are shut off by means of sheet iron and trenches dug 
in the ground in front of the metal into which the mitten crabs fall 
while wandering along on the sheet iron. Such a project has been 
laid out by the Elde rivulet in Doemitz and has already been de- 
scribed, and also in Garz on the Havel, where 77,100 kg of mitten 
crabs were caught in 1935 and 58,300 kg in 1936. In Gruetz on the 
Havel, 12 km above Garz, a conduit has been led along the upper 
border of the slanting walled riverbank, and into this conduit the 
climbing mitten crabs fall and are led by it to a lai-ge pit in which they 
collect without being able to escape. A slanting piece of sheet iron 
between the conduit and the river prevents the crabs from circum- 
venting the traps. Although here only those crabs are caught which 
escape the traps in Garz through parallel river beds, nevertheless 
11,250 kg of crabs were caught in 1935 and 32,400 kg in 1936 (pi. 4, 
fig. l;pl. 7). 

In Calbe on the Saole, the mitten crabs preferably climb up the 
rough slanting wall below the dam which affords these adept climbers 
sufficient grip. Here large wire baskets have been suspended against 
the wall and at some distance above them sheet iron has been laid. 
The climbing crabs slide down this sheet iron and fall into the basket 
from which they cannot escape. In 1936, 47,440 kg were caught in 
these baskets during the catching period from April to August (pi. 8). 

No special traps need be laid to catch the old downstream-migrating 
animals. They always move with the strongest current and are 
therefore caught in front of the turbines and in the eel-basket pots 
behind the dam outlets. In this way 49,400 kg (about 227,000 
specimens) were caught in 1935 in the Havel and 4,814 kg (about 
34,470 specimens) in 1935, and 4,836 kg (about 27,560 specimens) 
in 1936 in Bremen. 

These numbers do not by any means include all the mitten crabs 
caught. The young crabs migrating upstream, which pile up in 
front of the dam, are often caught there in large numbers in the eel- 
basket pots kept in front of the dam through the summer. Including 
these catches, the total catch of crabs moving up and downstream 
was 137,650 kg in the Havel in 1935 and 129,300 kg in 1936. In 
verified catches in Germany, altogether 262,600 kg were caught in 
1936 and 190,400 kg in 1937. 



CHINESE MITTEN CRAB — PANNING 375 

UTILIZATION OF MITTEN CRABS 

It is evident that efforts should be made to convert into profit these 
huge masses of mitten crabs caught daily during the main migration 
period. In Bremen the crabs are boiled and distributed to farmers 
who feed them to pigs with good success. Many fishermen crush 
their by-catch of mitten crabs and feed them raw to ducks which under- 
stand very well how to pick out the soft substance and thrive well on 
it. In Garz and Gruetz on the Havel, the mitten crabs are ground 
in large mills, and when this mutage cannot be fed to ducks, it is 
dumped into the rivers where the young fishes eat it eagerly. This is, 
of course, unprofitable and consequently experiments have been made 
for a long time by the "Havel," an association for the protection of 
fisheries in Gruetz, which would lead to utilization of the mitten crabs. 
These experiments have yet not been concluded and, therefore, can 
not be reported on. 

MUTATION OF MITTEN CRABS 

The mitten crabs have reacted to their introduction into a strange 
environment with some very conspicuous changes in their outward 
form. Plate 9 shows the three best examples of this change in the 
form. The changes have taken place principally in two systematically 
important characters — the rostrum teeth between the eyes and the 
three pairs of protuberances on the back behind the forehead. 

If one assumes that the mitten crabs were introduced into Germany 
around the turn of the century, it has required a comparatively long 
exposure to the new environment for these mutations to take place. 
No traces of changes were noticed in specimens brought to us in the 
twenties. In 1932 and 1933 the mitten crab was conspicuously labile 
in systematically important characters. The rostrum teeth were 
weaker and seldom pointed but mostly blunt, almost round; the 
indentiu-es between the teeth were flatter and often shaped very 
irregularly; the protuberances on the back were fainter and those of 
both rear pairs seemed to be inclined to fuse. At that time it was 
barely possible out of a large mass of mitten crabs to find even a few 
typical specimens to be used as exhibits. Now the mitten crab 
again has its original form without any deviation from the Chinese 
specimens brought to me only recently from Shanghai. It seems 
(more cannot be said) that the original mutation was accompanied 
by a general fluctuation of those characters which were affected by 
the change. 

The parts of the foregoing report not based on my original investiga- 
tions are taken from volume 47 of the Reports of the Hamburg 
Zoological Museum and Institute (works by Drs. Peters, Thiel, 
Schubert, Hoppe, and Peters), which I recommend for further infor- 
mation. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Panning 



Plate i 





Chinese mitten crab, male: above, back; below, belly. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Panning 



PLATE 2 




1. Female with eggs. 




2. The larvae: a, zoea; b, megalopa; c, in first bottom stage. 
Reproduction. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Panning 



Plate 3 



\ 


m^ 


4 


^ 




'* ^^8 








\ 


& ' ■■ " 




•> 


■ .^^^ 


':■ 't?' '^m-^r^^^\ 


f 


%^ 


-^r J 






Dying Old Female Densely Covered with Barnacles. 
Above, back; below, belly; the whole mouth organs densely covered with barnacles and scarcely movable. 



Smithsorian Report, 1938. — Panning 



Plate 4 




Catching young mitten crabs wandering upstream into traps by the Havel dam in Gruetz (in Branden- 
burg) during the summer of 1936. (Photograph by Weltbild.) 




2. This large animal marked with white paint was turned loose in Garz on the Havel, recaptured near 
Wittenberg on the Elbe; it traveled 123 km. in 12 days. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Panning 



PLATE 5 




1. Female belly; on the left side (right side on the picture), regeneration buds on the stumps of first, second, 
and third walking legs; on right side (left side on the picture), regenerating buds on the stumps of second 
and third walking legs. 




2. Male belly, with newly formed left pincer (right pincer in picture), without hairs, pile. 
Regeneration. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Panning 



Plate 6 





River beds at low Ebb Tide With Mitten Crab Burrows. 

Above, the broad, flat entrances to the burrows; below, the undermined bank falls in. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Panning 



PLATE 7 




1. The dam in Oruetz on the Havel seen from below; on the right side on the picture the needleweir and on 
the left side the rampart. Left from it the sloping wall and on its upper edge the trap. (Photographs 
by Dr. Roehler.) 




2. Trap projects by the dam in Gruetz on the Havel left wall with trench traps and climbing mitten crabs. 

(Photographs by Dr. Roehler.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Panning 



Plate 8 




Trap Baskets. 

Above, by the dam in Calbe on the Saale; below, on the Elbe bridge in Magdeburg. (Photographs bj/jDr. 
Kisker.) From Kisker Fischereizeitung, vol. 37, flg. page 510, 1934. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Panning 



Plate 9 






Three Mutations of the Mitten Crab From the Elbe. 



THE BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION IN ARTHROPODS 



By N. S. RusTUM Malitf 
The Osborn Zoological Laboratory, Yale University 



* * * all the fire emitted by wood and other combustibles when burning, existed in 
them before in a solid state, being only discovered when separating — 

— Benjamin Franklin 

Luminescence, in contrast to incandescence, is the emission of light 
as a result of some other factor than heat. There are various types 
of luminescence: (1) Thermoluminescence is the emission of light at 
abnormally high temperatures but nevertheless at temperatures well 
below 525° C. It resembles phosphorescence in that it is dependent 
on previous irradiation, e. g., fluorite will cease to emit light at 100° C. 
if kept in the dark for a long time. Since not all phosphorescent sub- 
stances are thermoluminescent, thermoluminescence is probably not 
merely a case of phosphorescence intensified by heat. (2) Phos- 
phorescence and fluorescence are the emission of light as the result of 
an absorption of radiant energy. In fluorescence the emission (gen- 
erally of a longer wave length than the incident light) occurs only 
during the time of irradiation. Harvey (1919) has pointed out, 
however, that the distinction between fluorescence and phosphores- 
cence is probably only arbitrary since some substances will yield light 
for only 1 /5,000 of a second after irradiation and since some substances, 
which fluoresce at ordinary temperatures, will phosphoresce at low 
temperatures. Chitin, eosin, and most proteins will fluoresce in 
ultraviolet light so that an excursion of a human being into an imagin- 
ary world in which there is no incident visible light but in which there 
is ultraviolet irradiation would not mean that aU would be darkness. 
He would be able to see living organisms and various minerals. (3) 
Triboluminescence results from the shaking or rubbing of certain 
crystals, e. g., uranium nitrate, sucrose. (4) Crystalloluminescence is 
observable when certain substances in solution are crystallizing out, 
e.g., AsO, NaF. All such substances are triboluminescent but the 
converse is not true. It has been shown that crystalloluminescence is 
not necessarily due to friction. (5) Chemiluminescence, in contrast 
to the above types of luminescence, is an oxidation and generally, if 
not always, requires oxygen or ozone. It thus includes the lumines- 

• Reprinted by permission from Science Progress, vol. 32, No. 126, October 1937, with extensive revisions 
and additions by the author. 

377 



378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

cence of organisms (bioluminescence) . Examples of chemilumines- 
cence in the inorganic world are numerous. Thus, freshly cut Na or K 
metals form an oxid film accompanied by the emission of light, which 
is perceptible in a dark room. 

A. DISTRIBUTION AND STRUCTURE OF THE LIGHT-PRODUCING 

ORGANS 

For a treatment of the earlier literature bearing upon this topic, de 
Kerville (1890), Mangold (1910-14), Harvey (1919), and Pratje (1923) 
should be consulted. Dahlgren (1915, 1916) has given a semipopular 
and well-illustrated account of the distribution of light organs in 
marine invertebrates. It is of interest to note that no truly fresh- 
water animal has as yet been determined, for certain, to possess a 
light-producing organ. 

/. Crustacea. — Light-producing organs have been found among the 
Ostracoda, Copepoda, Schizopoda, and Decapoda. Luminescence in 
the ostracod, Cypridina hilgendorfii, the principal subject of the 
Harveiian school is extracellular. The luminescent organ in this 
animal is composed of maxillary gland cells, each cell opening by a 
separate pore with a valve (cf. also Kanda, 1920, and the work of 
Doflein and of Miiller, quoted in the above works). Upon the con- 
traction of certain muscles, the secretion is forced to the exterior from 
the saclike reservoir and luminesces in the sea water. In the deep-sea 
shrimp, Acanthephyra debelis, the light-organs are scattered over the 
surface of the body. The shrimp, Systellaspis, possesses a large 
luminous gland which secretes a luminous material into the sea water 
(Harvey, 1931a). This species occurs at depths between 600 and 800 
fathoms off the coast of Bermuda. Luminescence at abysmal depths 
may be useful for illumination, although Kemp (1910) has noted that 
the vast majority of marine animals possessing photophores (including 
decapod Crustacea) Uve at the surface or at intermediate depths and 
never occur at the bottom, at least in deep water. 

S. Chilopoda (centipedes). — No millipede has as yet been estab- 
lished to be self-luminous. The centipede, Scolioplanes crassipes (cf. 
Koch, 1927), emits a vivid green light from its sterna. When it 
crawls, it leaves behind it a trail of luminous fluid droplets which 
emit green light. This shows that both the luciferin and luciferase 
are secreted to the exterior. This would require a perforation at some 
point in the membrane of each secreting cell, since luciferase is a 
complex protein (see below). Each light organ of this animal is a 
large hypodermal cell. A similar condition exists in Geophilus linearis 
and other members of the order Geophilidae of the class Chilopoda 
(centipedes). 

Sudden submersion in water, weak induction currents, chloroform, 
or a rise in temperature of about 10° C. stimulates the production of 
light in Scolioplanes. 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 379 

The organs are equally developed in both sexes and luminesce all 
the year round and not only, as some have believed, during the breed- 
ing season (Cook, 1900). The fact that all the Geophilidae are eyeless 
also indicates that luminescence in these forms does not serve for sex 
attraction. Light production may, however, conceivably be signifi- 
cant in repelling enemies or in attracting prey. 

It is of phylogenetic interest to note that the luminosity of certain 
"terrestrial" oligochaete annelids (Walter, 1909) is produced by the 
secretion of hypodermal glands. 

S. Heiapoda. — Luminous insects are nearly restricted to two 
famihes of the Coleoptera: (1) The Elateridae or "fireflies," ^ have 
many luminous species all of which belong to the nonarid tropics or 
subtropics and all of which are members of the genus Pyrophorus. (2) 
The Lampyridae or "glow-worms," contain several hundred known 
luminous species, included in several genera, most of which occur in 
America, the West Indies, and the Malay Archipelago. In many 
species both sexes may be about equally luminous while in others the 
intensity of Ught production may predominate either in the female or 
in the male but more usually in the latter. 

The luminous organ of at least a number of Lampyridae probably 
arises from the same embryonic fundament as the fat-body (cf. Wil- 
liams, 1916-17, and Okada, 1935) and Ues above the sixth and seventh 
abdominal sterna. It consists of (1) a dorsal layer of reflector cells 
which are white in appearance owing to the presence of crystals of 
xanthin, uric acid, or both; (2) a ventral mass of large ceUs (the light- 
producing cells) containing photogenic granules (not fat granules); 
(3) large tracheal trunks and tracheoles; (4) nerve fibers; (5) nonpig- 
mented and somewhat translucent sternal plates beneath the light- 
producing cells. Pyrophorus (an elaterid) has a pair of light-organs 
at the lateral tergal margins of the prothorax and also a single light- 
organ on the ventral anterior median region of the abdomen. 

In the larva of the tipulid fly, Bolitophila luminosa (Wheeler and 
WiUiams, 1915), part of each Malpighian tubule is photogenic. This 
is an interesting modification when one realizes that the essential 
feature of the reflector layer is insoluble purine crystals. Insects with 
luminescent organs also occur among the Collembola {Lipura, Am- 
phorura, Neanura), the Neuroptera {Teleganoides, Coenis), and the 
Diptera {Bolitophila and Ceroplatus larvae). Certain Collembola 
(Heidt, 1936) secrete a luminous fluid to the exterior, the lumines- 
cence of which was shown not to be due to bacteria. 

The interior of certain "firefly" eggs (Pyrophorus and various 
lampyrids) luminesces even prior to any embryonic differentiation. 
Dubois (1885) observed this to be the cause of error of some observers 

» A "firefly" is any luminous beetle capable of flight, elaterid or lampyrid. A "glow-worm" is any prac- 
tically wingless luminous beetle, larva, or adult. 



380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

who had stated that Ught is given off by the whole body of the adult. 
This statement of certain observers had already been refuted by some 
of Dubois' predecessors who, Dubois considered, must have noted 
only males. In 1854 Carpenter affirmed that the egg of Lampyris 
emits hght when within the ovary, that the freshly laid eggs are 
luminous, and that the light does not issue from luminous material 
adhering to the egg but from the egg itself. The eggs of the common 
North American lampyrids {Phoiinus, Photuris) are, on the other 
hand, nonluminous (Buck, personal communication). 

The larval hght-organ, which is not identical with that of the adult, 
persists and glows in the pupa and is absorbed only at the time the 
adult emerges. Now, certain prominent biologists (such as Kuhnt, 
1907; Pierantoni, 1914 and 1918; Buchner, 1914 and 1926) have 
claimed that luminescence in insects is due to the presence of intra- 
cellular symbiotic bacteria. Dubois' (1914a) numerous attempts at 
bacterial cultures from such light organs were negative and Harvey 
and Hall (1929) banished this notion when they found that "the adult 
luminous organ developed perfectly from larvae having both light- 
organs removed." The luminous granules in the photogenic cells are, 
therefore, not due to microorganisms. Bacteria probably play a 
nil factor in the luminosity of practically all species of living extant 
Metazoa. Certain fishes, such as Photoblepharon and Anomalops 
(cf. Harvey, 1921 and 1925), form the estabhshed exception to this 
rule. It is of interest to note that only luminous bacteria, fungi, 
and a few fish produce Ught continuously and that, as noted by 
Harvey (1924), fishes which luminesce continuously have bacteria to 
luminesce for them. If, then, continuous luminescence is a criterion 
solely of luminous bacteria and fungi, it seems very probable that the 
above fishes are the only luminous Metazoa which do not themselves 
produce hght but which harbor symbiotic (?) luminous bacteria. 

STIMULATION TO LUMINESCENCE 

As already explained, only luminous bacteria and fungi produce 
hght continuously. Other forms emit Hght at intervals depending 
upon the periods of stimulation. 

1. Rhythmic synchronous flashing en masse. — The phenomenon of the 
strictly synchronous flashing of firefhes en masse, frequently observed 
in the Tropics, has excited a considerable degree of interest and is the 
subject of an excellent review by Buck (1938). Hence the literature 
handled by Buck will not be dealt with here. Buck's plausible 
theory for the phenomenon will be treated at the end of this topic in 
connection with the significance of flashing in the economy of fireflies. 

In the journal Asia for February 1924 is an article by Carveth Wells 
on his experiences in the Malay Archipelago (cf. Morse, 1924): 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 381 

The air was full of extraordinary fireflies. About every fifteen minutes these 
flies separated into two armies, one settling on the trees growing on the left 
bank of the river and the other on the right. Then, when I had decided that the 
fireflies had gone to bed for the night, the whole army on the left bank gave one 
big flash in perfect unison, which was immediately answered by one big flash on 
the right. How these flies managed to keep time absolutely beats me, but they 
did so, though there must have been thousands of them stretching along the 
river-banks for a hundred yards or more. The illumination was so strong that 
the branches of the trees could be seen quite distinctly. 

This is only one exemplary case out of many. Several other animals 
exhibit rhythmic synchronous behavior of various types, e. g., the 
rhythmic synchronous chirping of certain crickets and locusts (Allard, 
1918). 

2. Diurnal rhythm. — Firefhes generally flash only at night, i. e., 
exhibit a 24-hour (diurnal) periodicity. In a paper read before the 
American Society of Zoologists, Buck (1935 and 1937) described his 
studies on the periodicity and diurnal rhythm in the firefly, Photinus 
pyralis: 

In nature, males of P. pyralis ordinarily flash every evening between 7 and 
9 p. m. The time of flashing is correlated with temperature and light intensity. 
Males which have been in strong light long flash immediately if the intensity is 
sufficiently reduced, regardless of the time of the day, showing that the regular 
evening flashing period can be modifled. Males kept continuously in darkness 
do not flash. If, however, they are exposed to weak light they flash (regardless 
of the time of the day) provided they have previously been in darkness 24, 48, 
72, or 96 hours but not if they have been in darkness 12, 36, 60, or 84 hours. If 
males which have been in darkness less than 24 hours are exposed to weak light 
and left in it they do not flash until the sum of the time spent in darkness and the 
time spent in weak light is equal approximately to 24 hours. It is thus apparent 
that there exists in the firefly an inherent diurnal periodicity which is manifested 
by periods of flashing which recur at 24-hour intervals and which persist for at 
least four days in the uniform environment of the dark-room. It is also clear 
that, although in the field this periodicity coincides with the diurnal changes in 
light intensity, it is not actually linked to any specific hour of the day. 

By "inherent" Buck does not mean "inherited" but implies that 
the 24-hour rhythm is produced by internal stimuli. A simUar con- 
dition had been noted in female larvae and female adults of Lam- 
pyris nodiluca (Perkins, 1931). The animals exposed continuously to 
light stopped glowing about the third day, while those receiving 
diffuse light by day, and those in continued darkness continued to 
glow at normal hours (10 p. m. to 4 a. m.) for about 2 weeks. 

It has been noted that when the eggs of the stick-insect, Dixippus 
(Schleip, 1914, 1920), are placed under constant light conditions the 
adults no longer exhibit any periodicity in the migration of hypoder- 
mal pigment granules. Similar experiments are necessary in order to 
determine whether the internal stimulus producing the periodical 
flashing in fireflies is inherited. The occurrence of diurnal rhythms in 
general is the subject of a recent review by Welsh (1938). 



382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

3. Basis of the rhythmic flashing of fireflies. — Since when the photo- 
genic cells are exposed directly to the air or when the intact animal 
is placed in one atmosphere of approximately pure oxygen, lumines- 
cence is continuous, it is clear that the regulation of the flashing 
rhythm is a result of regulation of the oxygen supply. 

Because destruction of the brain or severing of the nerve cord 
anterior to the photogenic organs causes an immediate cessation of 
light production (see also Peters, 1841; Macaire, 1822; Lund, 1911; 
Williams, 1916-17) and because electrical stimulation of the ventral 
nerve cord affects flashing (Heinemann, 1886; Perkins, 1931; Snell, 
1931, 1932), the mechanism of oxygen regulation must be under 
nervous control — probably a result of spontaneous discharges from 
the brain. The presence of the brain is not necessary, however, if the 
ventral nerve cord is electrically stimulated (Snell, 1931, 1932). 

Lund (1911) showed that the control of flashing is not exercised 
by a regulation of the blood flow (as was believed by Dubois, 1886) 
or of the muscular respiratory mechanism (as was believed by Heine- 
mann, 1886, and Watase, 1895). He noted that no movements of 
the skeleton, observable mth a binocular, are synchronous with 
flashing. 

It has been the general opinion in America, among those interested 
in the subject, that the nervous system exerts its control by acting on 
the tracheal end-cells, especially since Schultze (1865), Bongardt 
(1903), and Geipel (1915) sometimes observed fibers in contact with 
these cells. The realization that even the ordinary hypodermal 
cells of arthropods are generally richly supplied with a network of 
multipolar nerve cells (Schleip, 1914; cf. Hanstrom, 1928; Tonner, 
1933) would tend to weaken any conclusions from the above evidence. 
Because the tracheal end-cell was sometimes stained darker than the 
tracheoles, Dahlgren (1917) suggested that there might be a con- 
tractile layer of cytoplasm around it. He then stated that "the large 
body of cytoplasm surrounding it sometimes shows a radial structure 
that may point to a contractile power." His figure which illustrates 
such a structure is, however, not convincing. As far as I know, no 
one else has observed any such intracellular radial structure. Fur- 
thermore, even if we did rest upon the hypothesis of a contractile 
mechanism, it is incomprehensible how such a mechanism could 
produce a rapid obliteration of oxygen diffusion into the photogenic 
cells since some gaseous oxygen would stUl be present in the proximal 
portions of the tracheoles and contraction of the end-cells would 
merely compress the gas farther into the tracheoles and deeper into 
the photogenic tissues. There seems to be nothing back of the 
tracheal end-cell theory and, actually, the concept of a contractile 
tracheal end-cell is in direct antithesis to facts that we know. Thus, 
if contraction of the end-cells obliterates the oxygen supply, why 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALTJF 383 

should anaesthesia of the normal anunal initially abolish luminescence? 
We would expect, on the contrary, the "contractile mechanism" to 
relax and thus admit oxygen. Also, why should stimulation of the 
ventral nerve cord of the decerebrate creature produce glowing? 
We would expect, on the contrary, the "contractUe mechanism" to 
contract and thus impede the oxygen supply. The tracheal end-cells 
are not exclusive to the photogenic organs but are present at the 
tracheolep of all insects (cf. Deegener, 1928) and Bongardt (1903) has 
described tracheal end-cells in the light-organs of larvae of Phos- 
phaenus hemipterus — an animal which displays no brisk flashing 
rhythm. 

Now, von Wielowieski (1882), Emery (1884-86), Watas6 (1895), 
Bongardt (1903), and Townshend (1904) had believed that the 
tracheoles entering the photogenic organs of Lampyridae terminate 
intercellularly. Von Wielowiesld (1889) later considered that they end 
intracellularly. Williams' (1916-17) illustrations indicate intracellular 
penetration. Lund's (1911) observations bear out the latter view- 
point conclusively: "The fact that they do penetrate into the cyto 
plasm is clearly shown by the fact that cross-sections of the tracheoles 
appear close to the nuclei of the large photogenic cells in the same 
focal plane ..." For other literature concerning the intra- 
cellular penetration of tracheoles in the tissues of insects in general, 
cf. Wigglesworth (1931). 

Wigglesworth's (1929, 1930, 1931, 1932) direct observations on the 
motion of air and liquid into the tracheoles during activity and rest 
of the corresponding tissues should be well known and will, in time, 
become classical. His observations on translucent insects show that 
the tracheoles do not collapse when the fluid leaves them. His con- 
clusion with respect to the phenomenon is that, during activity, 
due to elaboration of metabolites (e. g., lactic acid) of lower 
molecular weight than the precursors, the osmotic pressure in the blood 
and tissue fluids is raised, thus causing a withdrawal of liquid from the 
semipermeable tracheoles into the tissues. The writer (1938) pre- 
sented cogent evidence that light-production is the result of a rise 
in the osmotic pressure of the photogenic cells consequent to a rise 
in their metabolic activity as a result of nervous stimulation. The 
rise in osmotic pressure must draw air into the tracheoles and thus 
causes light production. With the immediate oxidation and recon- 
version of the metabolites, the intracellular osmotic pressure must 
fall rapidly and, as a consequence and due to capillarity, the tra- 
cheoles will become filled with fluid once more and the photogenic 
cells will cease to produce light (fig. 1). The oxygen that would 
gradually diffuse into the photogenic cells through the column of 
fluid in the tracheoles is probably only just adequate for maintenance 
of the cells and would hence be consumed too rapidly to allow for 



384 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



the minimal intracellular oxygen pressure necessary for appreciable 
luminescence. 

4. Decline in the intensity oj a flash. — Brown and King (1931) 
measured the intensity of the light produced by Photuris pennsyl- 




FiGUEE 1. — Diagram illustrating the mechanism of the control of flashing in the "firefly." 

A. A spontaneous discharge from ganglion ceU, g, in the brain, 6, is transmitted to the motor cell, m, in the 
terminal abdominal ganglion, o, and from thence, along the motor fiber, to photogenic cells, p. This 
excites these cells to activity, raising their osmotic pressure and thus withdrawing fluid from the tracheoles, 
t . This admits air, coming through the trachea, tr, into the interior of the cell, e is the end-cell found 
at the tracheoles of all insects. 

B . Condition during inactivity of the specific cerebral ganglion cells, at which time the lactic acid is oxidized 
to water and COj, thus lowering the osmotic pressure in the photogenic cells. This allows the passage of 
fluid, /, into the tracheoles by capUlary pressure and thus keeps air from directly penetrating the cells. 

vanica as a result of a single electrical stimulus. A series of responses 
follows a single adequate stimulus with an increasing time interval 
between each response, untU the responses, declining in intensity, 
eventually fade away (fig. 2). The decrease in light intensity following 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION MALUF 



385 



a stimulus implies a decrease in the velocity of a reaction in the 
light-producing cells which, as Brown and King consider, can depend 
only on differences in the concentrations of luciferin, luciferase, or 
(and) oxygen. This consideration issues from the fact that we know 
a number of things: (1) Molecular oxygen is necessary for the lumi- 
nescence — i. e., the process is an oxidation; (2) a substrate, luciferin, 
is oxidized through the agency of an enzyme classified among the 
aerobic oxidases and termed luciferase; (3) according to the phe- 
nomena of mass action, the velocity of a chemical reaction varies 
directly with the concentration (activity) of the reacting components. 
Owing to the fact that the luciferin-luciferase reaction shows a similar 
relationship in vitro, where the oxy- 
gen available is constant, to that de- 
picted in figure 2, Brown and King 
concluded that the declining concen- 
tration of the luciferiQ-luciferase 
system was the determining factor 
in the "die-away" portion of the re- 
sponse. Because, however, of the 
much slower decline in luminosity in 
the in vitro conditions than in the in- 
tact animal and because of the facts 
stated in the following subsection, it 
seems probable that the decline in 

luminosity in the intact animal is (_> 20 40 60 

due to a decrease in the concentra- figure 2.-The magnitude of the photogenic 
tion of oxygen in the vicinity of the 
photogenic cells. 

5. Significance of luminescence in 
the economy of an animal. — After re- 
viewing the literature on the subject, Gazagnaire (1890) came to 
the conclusion that the intensity of luminescence in geophilid chilo- 
pods is intimately correlated with the time of sexual activity. Car- 
penter (1854) had already remarked that the same holds true for 
insects. The increase in the intensity of luminescence at such a 
time may be due to a raised rate of metabolism at this time; or, in 
the words of Carpenter, "the activity of this combustion is stimulated 
by anything which excites the vital functions of the individual." The 
notion, however, that luminescence has a secondary sexual function 
in chilopods cannot be upheld, since all the GeophiUdae (the order 
which includes the luminous forms) are eyeless. In fireflies, on the 
other hand, the case is quite different. Thus, according to Mast 
(1912, 1923), "the female [fireflyl in response to a flash of Ught pro- 
duced by the male turns the ventral surface of her abdomen toward 




response of Photuria pennsyloanica initiated by 
a single electrical stimulus. Ordinate: intens- 
ity of the flash in terms of the initial (=100). 
Abscissa: time scale (10 units =0.833 seconds;. 
(After Brown and King.) 



386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

him no matter where he may be located; and the male, in response 
to a flash of light produced by the female, turns and flies or walks 
directly toward her no matter where she may be located." (See also 
Osten-Sacken, 1861; and McDermott, 1912, 1917.) 

It remained for Buck (1935, 1937a) to determine how the male 
distinguishes the flash of a female from that of another male. Thus, 
at nightfall the female firefly {Photinus pyralis) climbs up on the 
herbage and the male flies about, flashing at fairly regular intervals 
of about 5.8 seconds at 24° C. The female responds by flashing 
2.1 seconds after the male flash. The length of the response interval 
also varies inversely with the temperature. 

The male responds to flashes of artificial light and to flashes produced by other 
males if they occur about 2 seconds after his flash. This shows that no possible 
difference in the color, duration, or intensity of the light produced by the two 
sexes, or difference in the relative motion or form of the luminous area, is of any 
importance in enabling the male to distinguish between flashes emitted by male 
and female. The essential factor in the ability of the male to distinguish between 
flashes produced by the female and those produced by other males is the fact 
that the female invariably responds to the flash of the male at a nearly constant 
level of 2 seconds. 

The synchronous flashing of masses of fireflies has been explained 
by an application of the above facts (Buck, 1935a, 1937c, 1938). 
Thus, other males may join in precise unison even though they had 
been flashing asynchronously originally. This involves a readjustment 
of the phase but not of the frequency. Similarly, other females in 
the vicinity may act accordingly — i. e., a single pair may cause a 
swarm of synchronous flashings. In other cases, however, swarms 
may exhibit no synchronism (e. g., Photinus pallens, a Jamaican firefly). 
Sheer photopositivity is the probable explanation for the huge swarm 
of P. pallens, since swarm-nuclei of this species may be artificially 
formed by flashHght. In such cases, mating "appears to be due 
entirely to accidental contact of the sexes during their peregrinations 
on the branches. The aggregation habit thus seems to take the 
place of the accurate systems of flashing signals which serve to bring 
male and female together . . ." (Buck, 1937c). 

CHEMICAL PHENOMENA 

1. Luminescence an oxidative process. — In 1667, Boyle, by means of 
a modified von Guericke (1634, 1672) air pump, discovered that air is 
necessary for the existence of animals and for the luminescence of 
bacteria (although, of course, he did not recognize the bacteria as such) 
and "glowworms" {Lampyris sp. larva or the wingless luminous ad alt 
English female). Following the discovery of oxygen by Lavoisier, 
Spallanzani (1796) was evidently the first to indicate that biolumines- 
cence is an oxidative piocess. Murray (1826) showed that when oxy- 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 387 

gen is replaced by irrespirable gases luminescence in Lampyris is abol- 
ished. "The phosphorescence," wrote Carpenter (1854) concerning 
luminescence in fireflies, "appears to be occasioned by the slow com- 
bustion of a peculiar organic compound, the production of which is de- 
pendent for its continuance upon the life and health of the animal ; the 
activity of this combustion is stimulated by anything which excites the 
vital functions of the individual, and it is particularly influenced by the 
energy of the respiratory process. If the opening of the trachea which 
supplies the luminous sac be closed, so as to check the access of air to its 
contents, the light ceases [itahcs mine] ; but if the sac be Uf ted from its 
place, without injuring the tracheae, the light is not interrupted. In 
all active movements of the body in which respiration is energetic, the 
light is proportionally increased in briUiancy. If the luminous seg- 
ments be separated from the rest of the body, they continue phos- 
phorescent for some time." The italicized observation shows that 
there is no effective ventilation of the air in the tracheae of the lumi- 
nescent organ by other spiracles than those belonging to the light- 
producing segments (see also Heinemann, 1886; Hess, 1921; and 
Maluf, 1938). In fact, Lyonnet's early observations (confirmed by 
others, cf. Babak, 1921) show that ventilation is to a great extent seg- 
mentally localized even in tracheates with as well developed a tracheal 
system as caterpillars. Ofsianikof (1863) also found that the luminos- 
ity of Lampyris noctiluca ceases in vacuo but recommences on the read- 
mission of a little air and becomes very dull in an atmosphere con- 
taining an excessive amount of carbon dioxid. Temporary immersion 
in glycerin also caused a cessation of luminescence possibly due to a 
plugging of the spiracles. The condition was quite reversible, how- 
ever, upon washing with water, in which glycerin is soluble. That 
oxygen is actually used up in the photogenic process itself and that the 
absence of luminescence in the absence of oxygen is not merely due to a 
general interference with the cellular functions was first shown by 
Dubois who found that luminous extracts of arthropods and the mol- 
lusk, Pholas, will not emit light in the absence of oxygen but will do so 
upon the readmission of oxygen. These findings have been confirmed 
by Kastle and McDermott (1910), Harvey (1916a, 1917b, 1920), and 
others. 

Contrary results were presented by Kanda (1920, 1920a), who noted 
that the intensity of light produced by an aqueous suspension of luci- 
ferin-luciferase from the Japanese ostracod, Cypridina hilgendorfii 
is strongest and lasts longest in water saturated with hydrogen 
from which other gases, including oxygen, had been discharged. The 
intensity of light produced by a luciferin-luciferase suspension of this 
animal was weakest and lasted least in water saturated with oxygen. 
Although Kanda admitted that very little oxygen might have been 
present in spite of elaborate precautions, he concluded that the produc- 

114728—39 26 



388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

tion of light by Cypridina hilgendorfii is not the result of oxidation. 
Four years prior to Kanda's work, Harvey's (1916a) experiments, in 
which oxygen was replaced by hydrogen, showed that oxygen is neces- 
sary for light production in Cypridina hilgendorfii. Harvey, then, 
also called attention to the fact that every other organism studied was 
found to require oxygen for luminescence. In reply to Harvey's 
criticism, Kanda endeavored to justify his previous results by checking 
his technique on a Japanese firefly, Luciola vitticollis. In this animal 
no light was produced by the isolated photogenic organs in an atmos- 
phere of pure hydrogen or nitrogen, or in a vacuum. The intensity of 
light was greatest in an atmosphere of pure oxygen. Kanda thus 
concluded that his technique was quite irreproachable and that the 
production of light by L. vitticollis is the result of oxidation while that 
in Cypridina is not. Biologists were now faced by a new enigma — why 
Cypridina can luminesce without oxygen while this phenomenon in 
Luciola imperatively requires oxygen. That this problem was only 
man-made soon became apparent when Harvey (1920) removed all 
traces of the oxygen present in commercial hydrogen gas by passing 
the commercial product over hot platinum coils. Under such condi- 
tions the oxygen, present as an impurity, combines with an equivalent 
amount of hydrogen and forms water. When gaseous hydrogen so 
treated was used, all light production by C. hilgendorfii completely 
disappeared. "The luminescent secretion of Cypridina hilgendorfii 
will still give off much light if hydrogen containing only 0.4 percent 
oxygen is bubbled through it . . . At 7 mm of oxygen [i. e., 1 vol. 
percent] the light of Cypridina is as bright as if the solution were satu- 
rated with air [152 mm of oxygen]" (Harvey, 1919). In 1923, Harvey 
and Morrison described a method for measuring the concentration of 
oxygen necessary to allow just perceptible luminescence of luminous 
bacteria. The value was 1 part by weight of oxygen to 37 X 10 * cc of 
sea water. Shapiro (1934) studied the light intensity of luminous 
bacteria as a function of oxygen pressure. 

More recently the question as to whether free oxygen is necessary for 
luminescence of the luciferin-lucif erase extracts of all luminous animals 
became reopened (although unfortunately not to any great extent) 
when Harvey (1926b) and Harvey and Korr (1938), even by the use of 
the most drastic methods, found that a few animals (or dried extracts 
of the same) can Imninesce without oxygen. These are the Cteno- 
phora, the medusa Pelagia noctiluca, and radiolarians. All luminous 
pennatulids, annelids, echinoderms, arthropods, and cephalopods 
could not luminesce without atmospheric oxygen. Harvey suggested 
that, in the former, the oxygen may be bound up by the photogenic 
granules. It is possible, on the other hand, especially since "stored 
oxygen" has gained disfavor, that these lower Metazoa are still 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 389 

capable of a marked truly anaerobic metabolism and that their 
luminescent reactions partake of this phase of their metabolism. 

2. The mechanism of bioluminescent reactions. — Unlike the oxidation 
of foodstuffs, the oxidation of luciferin does not appear to result in an 
evolution of CO2, or, at least not enough CO2 is produced (pH determi- 
nations by means of a sensitive potentiometer) during luminescence to 
saturate the proteins in solution since "the acidity of the luciferin solu- 
tion, luciferase solution, and the two after mixing was found to be the 
same, pH 9.04" (Harvey, 1931). Good evidence that the luciferin- 
oxyluciferin change is a dehydration-hydrogenation reaction is pre- 
sented by the fact that dry oxyluciferin, when first exposed to atomic 
hydrogen, produces light upon the addition of a solution of luciferase; 
othermse, dry oxyluciferin plus a solution of luciferase does not pro- 
duce light. Evidently atomic hydrogen is capable of adequately re- 
ducing oxyluciferin to luciferin. 

The luciferase is not merely a catalyst in the reaction but evidently 
supplies molecules which may be excited to emit light by the energy 
released upon the oxidation of luciferin. These activated molecules 
may thus return to their initial state (Harvey, 1932, 1935). This 
is indicated by the fact that when the luciferin from one animal can 
be energized to produce luminescence with the luciferase of a closely 
related species, the species (or sex) supplying the luciferase determines 
the color of the resulting luminescence and by the fact that Cypridina 
luciferin, when oxidized alone in aqueous solution, never emits light 
even though the velocity of its oxidation may be greater than in the 
presence of luciferase. The decay curve of light intensity in a luci- 
ferin-luciferase solution is monomolecular, indicating that only one 
molecule of luciferin is being transformed (Amberson, 1922). The 
entire scheme may be expressed thus (Harvey, 1935, 1935a): 

(Luciferase accelerates) 

(a) Luciferin (LH2) + 1/2 O2 *■ oxyluciferin (L') + HaO 

(b) L' + luciferase (A) > L+A' 

(c) A' » A-\-hv (light quanta) 

The prime (') indicates the excited molecules. 

The reaction somewhat resembles that of the reduction of methy- 
lene blue: 



MBH2-\-l/2 02 , MB-^HiO 

(reduced methylene blue) (reductants) 

Aluminum, zinc, magnesium powders, or other inorganic reducing 
agents will reduce oxyluciferin to luciferin as they will reduce methy- 
lene blue to the colorless compound. In both cases the reactions are 
reversible. Further evidence that the reaction is similar to the oxi- 
dation of a leuco-dye, rather than to the oxidation of a substance like 



390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

benzaldehyde by peroxid formation, is that diphenylamine (a nega- 
tive catalyst for the oxidation of benzaldehyde) has no effect on the 
luminescence of a luciferin-luciferase reaction (Harvey, 1918, 1928). 

Alkali, within limits, favors the oxidation of luciferin to oxylucif- 
erin (by luciferase) with the resultant production of light, while acid 
favors the reduction of oxyluciferin to luciferin with the consequent 
decrease in the glow. These facts are in accord with oxidations and 
reductions in general. 

The activity of aerobic oxidases is destroyed by cyanid concentra- 
tions of the order of M/10,000. On the other hand, the activity of 
anaerobic oxidases (oxidases which do not accelerate oxidations pro- 
duced by molecular oxygen) and of dehydrogenases are not affected 
by cyanid except in relatively high concentrations of the latter. 
M/5,000 KCN reduces the luminescence of luminous bacteria to only 
20-25 percent but KCN (even M/250) does not influence the lumi- 
nescence of Cypridina luciferin-luciferase. M/20 KCN, while it 
does not extinguish the luminescence of the Cypridina preparation, 
diminishes its brightness — i. e., presumably decreases the mass of 
active luciferase (Harvey, 1916a and b, 1917b, 1932). The reason 
for the almost nil effect of KCN on the action of luciferase — quite 
apparently an aerobic oxidase — is problematical. Since it has not 
been possible to prepare luminous extracts of bacteria, fungi, or 
medusae (Harvey, 1924, 1926b) and since it is known that the bacterial 
dehydrogenases are closely bound up with cell structure, Harvey (1935) 
has suggested that luciferase may be a specialized type of dehydro- 
genase in which oxygen is absolutely required as a specific hydrogen 
acceptor. 

3. Lucijerins and luci/erases. (a) Properties. — To Dubois belongs 
the credit for the fundamental discovery of the presence of the sub- 
strate, luciferin, and the enzyme, luciferase, involved in luminescence. 
In 1885 he found that an aqueous extract of the photogenic organ of 
a beetle will luminesce in the presence of air and that cellular structure 
is thus not essential for the production of light (exceptions to such a 
discovery have been noted above). Such an extract was, however, 
continuously luminescent so long as it endured, there being no peri- 
odicity in the production of light. From what has been said concern- 
ing the mechanism of flashing, the reason for this is quite apparent. 
In 1887 (a and b) he showed that bioluminescence requires the presence 
of at least four substances, the following three of which had already 
been recognized: (1) Air [oxygen] (Boyle); (2) water (Spallanzani, 
1794); and, of course, (3) a photogenic substance(s). By dialysis 
through celloidin, two separate solutions were obtained from an 
aqueous extract of the photogenic organs of fireflies. Neither the 
dialysate nor the residual solution luminesced. When both solutions 
were mixed light was reproduced. This at once established the 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 391 

presence of at least two distinct substances. The substance in the 
residual solution was destroyed at temperatures of 60° C. or above 
and was insoluble in petroleum-ether or benzene. The substance in 
the dialysate was relatively thermostable and soluble in water, petro- 
leum-ether, and benzene. Dubois termed the substance in the 
dialysate, luciferin; and that in the residual solution luciferase, since 
he soon discovered that the latter substance exhibited the properties 
of an enzyme — i. e., a protein with catalytic properties. 

As first observed by Spallanzani (1794) on luminous medusae, 
water is necessary for bioluminescence. Kastle and McDermott 
(1910) dried the photogenic material of a firefly in vacuo over con- 
centrated sulphuric acid. In the dry state no light was emitted. 
After keeping the material quite dry for over 13 months luminescence 
was produced upon moistening with water. Similar results were 
obtained by Harvey (1916a) on Cypridina hilgendorfii. In 1918 
Harvey dried Cypridina rapidly and stored the product. In 1928, 
when this was powdered and moistened, the luminescence was as 
intense as in 1918. Even in aqueous solution, if auto-oxidation was 
impeded, luciferin was noted to remain stable for at least 4 years. 
Luciferase in solution saturated with NaCl deteriorates more rapidly 
(Harvey, 1928a). 

There was a time when Harvey (1916a, d) contradicted Dubois' 
work at its very foundations by considering that luciferase itself is the 
source of light and is not an enzyme causing light production by the 
oxidation of luciferin. Harvey's statements grew from experiments 
in which light was obtained from Cypridina luciferase by substances 
incapable of oxidation (e. g., pure NaCl, MgSO^, chloroform, ether, 
and pilocarpin — all in aqueous solution) which were beheved to act 
as substitutes for luciferin. Harvey thereby adopted new names after 
deciding that those of Dubois were unfit: (1) "Photogenin" (= 
luciferase of Dubois), or the light-producer; and (2) "photophelein" 
(= luciferin of Dubois), or light assister. Upon further work with 
Cypridina, however, Harvey (1918) readopted Dubois' terms of 
luciferin and luciferase. Harvey's error in this matter lay in his 
preparation of a luciferin-"free" solution. He allowed a luciferin- 
luciferase solution to stand in air till all light ceased, when he assumed 
that the luciferin was consumed, for light was not produced until 
further luciferin was added. Upon the addition of NaCl, MgS04, 
ether, or chloroform (a fine array of diverse substances) to the solution 
in which the luciferin was supposedly consumed, Hght was again 
produced. He later found that a luciferase solution separated from 
luciferin by dialysis did not act in this manner (see also Kanda, 1920) 
and therefore concluded that luciferin probably consists of two sub- 
stances, one of which is set free to be acted upon by luciferase when 
sodium chlorid, magnesium sulphate, ether, or chloroform are added. 



392 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

It should be noted, however, that while Harvey had erroneously 
beUeved that luciferase was not an enzyme but itself the substance 
oxidized with the production of light, he was probably quite right, 
owing to facts stated under the topic on the mechanism of light-pro- 
duction, in believing luciferase to be the main source of light. 

Before we leave the question of the effect of inorganic salts on 
luminescence, it is of interest to note that NaCl and a number of 
other salts markedly increase the total amount of light emitted during 
the reaction of a given amount of luciferin (Anderson, 1937). This 
may have teleological significance as the luminescent reaction, when 
produced by Cypridina, takes place in sea water — a salt solution. 
"One explanation of the increased light emission in solutions of sodium 
chloride is that a change occurred in the activated molecule which 
made it less likely to lose its energy in collisions with the solvent or 
with added potassium iodide or thiocyanate." 

There are luciferins and luciferases. Thus, luciferin from the 
firefly, Photuris (a lampyrid), will produce light with luciferase from 
the firefly, Pyrophorus (an elaterid), and vice versa. But the luci- 
ferin and luciferase of Cypridina, an ostracod, will not luminesce with 
firefly luciferase or luciferin, respectively (Harvey, 1919, 1928). Luci- 
ferin of the shrimp, Systellaspis, will not give light with luciferase of 
the ostracod, Cypridina, nor will Cypridina luciferin luminesce with 
the luciferase of Systellaspis (Harvey, 1931a) or of the mollusk, 
Pholas (Harvey, 1919, 1928). Since the luciferases are quite specific, 
only closely related forms luminesce when their photogens are inter- 
mixed. (See also Harvey, 1926a). The spectrum is always the same 
as that of the animal supplying the luciferase. The significance of 
this has already been pointed out. 

Cypridina luciferin, furthermore, differs from that of the mollusk, 
Pholas dactylus (Dubois, 1913, 1914; Harvey, 1919, 1928), in that the 
latter will oxidize with light-production when acted upon by various 
oxidizing agents (e. g., potassium permanganate, hydrogen peroxide, 
oxyhaemoglobin, but not with nascent oxygen in the absence of 
luciferase). Extracts of many nonluminous animals will oxidize 
Pholas luciferin with light-production, but not so with Cypridina 
luciferin. "Oxidation of [Cypridina] luciferin at anodes of various 
metals by nascent oxygen or oxidation by colloidal platinum or 
palladium and oxygen or other oxidizing agents never results in 
luminescence in the absence of luciferase." Luciferin, in 95 to 99 
percent alcohol (in which luciferase is not soluble) will luminesce 
faintly if heated to 70° C. or if minute amounts of solid KMn04, 
disuccinyl peroxid, K3Fe(CN)6 PtCl4, PdCl2, and Ca hypochlorite are 
added. These facts do not at all imply that, in bioluminescence, 
luciferin is the source of light since — 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 



393 



aqueous solutions of luciferin, even if luciferase is also present, will not luminesce 
at this temperature. It is possible that in alcohol the oxidation proceeds at the 
surface of luciferase particles, which pass the filter paper, suspended in the liquid. 
The luminescence is not to be compared in brightness with that in aqueous solu- 
tions with luciferase, and I mention these results merely as a matter of record, as 
the only cases where Cypridina luciferin alone will luminesce. I do not believe 
they are necessarily significant for the theory of bioluminescence because so many 
organic substances luminesce on oxidation with strong oxidizing agents (Harvey, 
1928). 

Various plants contain substances which, when added even to a 
minute concentration of pyrogallol (even 1: 254,000) +H2O2 yield 
light (Harvey, 1916e). These substances are probably certain vege- 
table peroxidases. 

If one mixes a test tube containing pyrogallol solution -[- hydrogen peroxide with 
potato or turnip juice or almost any plant extract, a yellowish luminescence 
appears. The plant extract loses the power to cause such luminescence on 
boiling and the peroxidaze will not dialyze. It is, of course, comparable to 
luciferase and acts on the thermostable, dialyzable pyrogallol-hydrogen peroxide 
mixture, which is comparable to luciferin .... Although many hydroxy-phenol 
and amino-phenol compounds can be oxidized by peroxidase and hydrogen 
peroxide, only pyrogallol and gallic acid will oxidize with light production (Harvey). 



Table 1 . — Properties of luciferase and luciferin 



Property 



Salting out: 

Saturation with NaCl 

H saturation with (NHOsSOi... 
Saturation with (NH4)2S04 

Solubility: 

Ethyl alcohol 90 percent 

Ethyl alcohol 70 percent 

Ethyl alcohol 50 percent 

Acetone 90 percent 

Ether 

Chloroform... 

Xylol 

Alkaloidal reagents: 

Phosphotungstic acid 



Picric acid 

Heavy metal salts: 

Basic lead acetate 

Acids and alkalis: 

NaOH 

Trichloracetic acid 

nci, after 16 hours boiling 

Heat: 

60*0 

Boiling 

Boiling with 4 percent HjSOi for 

10 hours. 
Boiling for 24 hours with 4 per- 
cent njSOi. 
Enzyme action: 

Trypsin, erepsin, amylase, 
urease, sucrase, pepsinase, 
rennin. 

Biuret reaction 

Dialysis 

Immunological (Harvey and Deit- 
rick, 1930) . 



Luciferase 



Not precipitated 

Slightly precipitated 

Completely precipitated. 



Insoluble 

do 

Slightly soluble. 

Insoluble 

do 

do 

do 



Completely precipitated. 

Nearly precipitated 

Completely precipitated.. 



Not precipitated. 

do.... 

Destroyed 



Irreversibly destroyed. 

do. 

Destroyed 



.do. 



Destroyed only by pepsin (?), by 
trypsin, erepsin, and something 
in spleen and liver extracts. 

Positive 

Will not dialyse through celloidin.. 

Produces an antibody 



Luciferin 
(more simple than luciferase) 



Not precipitated. 

Do. 
Nearly completely precipitated. 

Soluble. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Insoluble. 

Do. 

Do. 

Very nearly completely precip- 
itated. 
Not precipitated. 

Not completely precipitated. 

Not precipitated. 

Do. 
Hydrolysed. 

Not destroyed. 
Do. 
Do. 

Destroyed. 



Not destroyed. 



Negative. 

Will dialyse through celloidin. 

Does not produce an antibody. 



Table 1 represents a summary of the most important data disclosed 
by Harvey with regard to the properties of the luciferin and luciferase 



394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

of Cypridina hilgendorfii. His results have been largely confirmed by 
Kanda (1921 and 1924). Lucif erase exhibits definite protein prop- 
erties, or, "if luciferase is not a protem it is so closely bound up with 
a protein that it cannot be separated." Harvey estimated that 1 gm 
of luciferase can accelerate the oxidation of 10,000 gms of luciferin 
with the production of light. The fact that the activity of luciferase 
is gradually diminished in the reaction does not prevent its being 
classed among the organic catalysts (enzymes). Enzymes, in general, 
are gradually used up in the reactions they generate and accelerate. 
The chemical nature of luciferin is not as yet determined and Anderson 
(1933, 1935, 1936) cannot agree with Kanda (1930) that it is a phos- 
pholipid. Nearly complete precipitation by a saturated solution of 
ammonium sulphate or phosphotimgstic acid, insolubility in fat 
solvents and hydrolysis by prolonged boiling with hydrolic acid, 
indicate protein properties. On the other hand, solubility in con- 
centrated alcohol and acetone, nondigestibility by proteolytic enzymes, 
and the absence of a biuret reaction are not protein characteristics. 

(6) Distribution in organisms. — While luciferin has been ascribed 
to various tissues of Cypridina hilgendorfii, luciferase is strictly 
localized in the photogenic cells (Harvey, 1919). This is in contrast 
to the phenomena of melanin formation in the elytra of Leptinotarsa 
beetles, where the enzyme tyrosinase is distributed but the substrate 
localized (Gortner, 1911). In earlier work, Harvey (1916a, 1917a) 
believed that luciferin, but not luciferase, is also found in nonluminous 
species of Cypridina. On the other hand, Kanda (1920) disagreed 
with Harvey but agreed with Dubois by finding luciferin solely in the 
photogenic cells of Cypridina and not in nonluminous species. Harvey 
(1924a) later agreed with this view. 

(c) Evolution. — Bioluminescence is scattered throughout the animal 
kingdom below the Amphibia but does not seem to carry any appar- 
ent phylogenetic significance. As with regard to haemoglobin, 
therefore, one would look for a certain basic substance present in 
practically all aerobic cells which may be capable of giving rise to the 
photogenic substances at random. Now, Harvey (1932) has pointed 
out that fluorescent substances, such as practically all proteins, are 
most likely to luminesce, and hence suggested that proteins with an 
unusually bright "photophore" group are possibly seized in evolution 
and made to luminesce by the energy of the oxidative dehydrogenation 
of a luciferin. 

Is it merely a matter of chance that luminescence does not occur 
among fresh-water forms? 

PHYSICAL PHENOMENA 

1. Efficiency in light production. — In the Philosophical Transactions 
of the Royal Society of London for 1671, volume 1, page 603, is a brief 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 395 

article bearing the authorship of John Templer and the title, "Some 
Observations Concerning Glow-worms." The note runs thus: "Mr. 
T. also persuaded himself that he perceived a degree of heat from the 
insect, when shining in its fullest splendour." In contrast to the 
foregoing statement we have the following in a recent semipopular 
article by Parlin (1935): "The ratio between the intensity of the light 
[of a fireflyl thus produced and the amount of matter oxidized is the 
largest known to science, the eflBciency being better than 95 percent! 
Most of the energy in the latter case is radiated in the form of heat 
. . . How the firefly can radiate 'cold light,' free from the enormous 
amount of heat which is present in all man-made sources of light, is a 
problem which has baffled science for many years, and its solution will 
revolutionize our lighting industry." As will become apparent below, 
both of the above viewpoints are unconscious exaggerations. 

The efficiency of a light source may be defined in three wa3''s: (1) 
The radiational efficiency, or the percentage of visible wave-lengths in 
the total amount of radiation emitted, i.e., the amount of visible radi- 
ation emitted divided by the total (heat, visible, and actinic) radiation; 
(2) the subjective radiational efficiency obtained by taking into account 
the sensibility of the eye to different wave lengths, i. e. (visible radia- 
tion X visual sensitivity) -f- total radiation; or (3) by the amount of 
light produced in relation to a given expenditure of energy, i. e., the 
total efficiency. Since the amount of heat evolved by a firefly during 
luminescence, in excess of the basal metabolic level, or by an in vitro 
luciferin-luciferase system has not been amenable to measurement 
even by use of most refined technique (Langley and Very, 1890; 
Langley, 1902; Coblentz, 1912) and since photography and other 
methods have shown that apparently all the waves emitted are within 
the visible region (see below), the radiational efficiency of biolumi- 
nescence appears to be 100 percent. Harvey has pointed out, how- 
ever, that it can be calculated that the amount of heat evolved from 
the luciferin-luciferase concentrations so far used exceeds the limits 
of error of available methods. At this point, Franklin's statement, 
"being only discovered when separating," mentioned at the beginning 
of this article, is symbolic. A work of great significance at this point 
is that in which Harvey (1927a, 1935) showed that, for the production 
of only one quantum of light of X =0.48/1 in an in vitro system of 
Cypridina luciferin-luciferase, about 100 molecules of oxygen must 
react with the luciferin. The total efficiency of such a reaction would 
thus be only about 1 percent, i. e., well below the total efficiency of a 
number of man-made sources of light, including the incandescent ones 
(see Hodgman, C. D. and N. A. Lange: Handbook of Chemistry and 
Physics). The total efficiency of luminescences in general is not as 
great as is commonly imagined. Thus, the efficiency of radiolumines- 
cence (radium+ZnS) is about 1 percent (Hess, 1922); of phospho- 



396 ANNUAX. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

rescence is only 0.015 percent (Adams, 1924). "If the efficiency of 
other chemiluminescences proves to be as low as this, the commercial 
significance of luminescence seems doubtful, to say the least. What 
we really need in the case of luminous animals is a determination of the 
heat of oxidation of luciferin together with the quantity of light pro- 
duced per calorie, in order that the efficiency may be calculated" 
(Harvey, 1924a). Now, the total efficiency of an acetylene flame is 
about 17.7 percent; that of a sodium arc light about 60 percent; that 
of a carbon filament about 4.54 percent (cf, Hodgman and Lange, 
loc. cit.). To say that "an area of firefly light 6 feet in diameter on 
the ceiling of a room 9 feet high would give ample illumination for 
reading or drawing on a table 3 feet high" (Harvey, 1931c) is of in- 
trinsic interest but is not adequate in convincing an illuminating 
engineer who is interested in efficiency. In various circumstances, 
however, a hot flame is not desirable and may be dangerous, while 
luminescence would be harmless 

2. Intensity of the light. — The intensity of bioluminescence is 
measured by a sensitive photoelectric cell and compared with that of a 
standard lamp. In an in vitro suspension of luciferin-lucif erase, the 
intensity of light varies directly with the concentration of the suspension 
and with the temperature within limits (Qioo=ca. 2.74; Amberson, 
1922). Even as little as one gram of the dry photogenic material of 
Cypridina hilgendorfii will yield visible light when suspended in 
1,700,000,000 gm (or cc) of water (Harvey, 1916a). The maximum 
brightness of a prothoracic light organ of the intact firefly, Pyrophorus, 
is 0.0002 candle at 20° C. (Harvey and Stevens, 1928). Coblentz 
(1912) recorded an intensity variation for the firefly, Photinus pyralis, 
varying between 0.020 and 0.0025 candle with the predominating 
value at about 0.0025 candle. This insect will sometimes glow steadily 
with a glow as low as 0.000020 candle in intensity (Harvey, 1919). 
The average brightness of Photuris pennsylvanica is about 0.00067 
candle (Parlin, 1935). During the Spanish- American war, Maj. Gen. 
W. C. Gorgas, according to Parlin, "used the light from a bottle of 
fireflies to carry out an operation." 

3. Wave lengths represented. — All light waves emitted by biolumines- 
cence are, so far as known, within the range of the visible spectrum. 
The light produced by the firefly, Photinus (Harvey, 1919), extends 
only to the beginning of the blue, forming a band through the red to 
the end of the green with a wave-length range of 6700 A. to 5100 A. 
Other fireflies exhibit similar ranges (Pasteur, 1864; Young, 1870; 
Langley and Very, 1890; Ives, 1910; Ramdas and Venkiteshwaran, 
1931; Buck, 1937a, b). In the elaterid, Pyrophorus plagiophthalmus 
(Buck, 1937b), the spectrum of the thoracic organ extends from 5075 A 
to 6400 A.; that of the abdominal organ, from 5350 A. to 6400 A. 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION MALUF 397 

In a classical work, Langley and Very (1890), by comparing the 
spectrum of the firefly, Pyrophorus nodilucus, with a solar spectrum 
of equal intensity, showed that the brevity in extent of the luminescent 
spectrum is not due to weakness of the red and blue rays but to their 
absence (limits: X=4680 A. to X=0.640 A.). 

In the firefly and in ostracods, at least, a rise in temperature shifts 
the spectrum toward the longer wave lengths, i. e., toward the red 
(Macaire, 1821 ; Polimanti, 1911 ; Harvey, 1924, 1927b). This condition 
is true both in vivo and in vitro. Harvey (1927b) has suggested that 
this may be due to a change in the aggregation state of the colloidal 
particles of the luciferin. 

SUMMARY 

1 . A luminescent body is one which radiates light at a low tempera- 
ture and the light of which is not the result of (high) temperature. 

2. Bioluminescence is a form of chemiluminescence and, except 
for certain primitive Metazoa, requires free oxygen. 

3. Among arthropods, light-producing organs occur in various 
crustaceans, centipedes, and insects. 

4. Unlike centipedes, luminescence in beetles serves for sexual 
attraction. 

5. Bioluminescence is controlled by the oxygen supply to the 
luminescent cells. As a result of nervous stimuli (which are often 
periodical), the metabolic rate of the photogenic cells is presumably 
raised with the consequent liberation of metabolites. The latter, by 
raising the osmotic pressure of the tissue fluids, as evidence indicates, 
presumably would cause a withdrawal of fluid from the tracheoles of 
the photogenic cells and would, thus, supply the cells with more 
oxygen. 

6. There are several luciferins and luciferases. The latter group 
not only catalyze the oxidation of luciferin but evidently become 
activated by the process and thus emit light in reverting to the original 
state. 

7. Under conditions which simulate the biological, the oxidation of 
luciferin will not produce light except when reacting with lucif erase. 

8. The total efficiency of bioluminescence is apparently very low, 
being of the magnitude of approximately 1 percent. The radiational 
efficiency of bioluminescence may prove to be the highest that is 
known to science. 

9. All light waves emitted are well within the range of the human- 
visible spectrum (X=0.390 to 0.810/x). The luciferase and not the 
luciferin determines the type of spectrum in bioluminescence. 

The writer is much indebted to Prof. E. Newton Harvey (Princeton 
University) and Dr. John B. Buck (Carnegie Institution) for having 
read and criticized the above article before its final printing. Needless 
to say, however, all responsibility faUs on the author. 



398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

LITERATURE 
Adams, E. Q. 

1924. The luminous efficiency of chemi-luminescent reactions. Physical 
Rev., vol. 23, p. 771. 
Allard, H. a. 

1918. Rhythmic synchronism in the chirping of certain crickets and locusts. 
Amer. Nat., vol. 52, p. 548. 
Amberson, W. 

1922 a. Kinetics of the bioluminescent reaction in Cypridina. I. Journ. 

Gen. Physiol., vol. 4, p. 517. 
1922 b. II. Ibid., vol. 4, p. 535. 
Anderson, R. S. 

1933. Chemical studies on bioluminescence. I. Quantitative determination 
of luciferin. Journ. Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 3, p. 45. 

1935. II. The partial purification of Cypridina luciferin. Journ. Gen. 

Physiol., vol. 19, p. 301. 

1936. III. The reversible reaction of Cypridina luciferin with oxidising agents 

and its relations to the luminescent reaction. Journ. Cell. 
Comp. Physiol., vol. 8, p. 261. 

1937. IV. Salt effects on the total light emitted by a chemi-luminescent 

reaction. Journ. Chem. Soc, vol. 59, p. 2115. 
BabAk, E. 

1921. Die Mechanik und Innervation der Atmung. Arthropoden. In Hans 
Winterstein's Handb. Vergl. Physiol., vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 326-534. 

BoNGARDT, J. 

1903. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Leuchtorgane einheimischer Lampyriden. 
Zeitschr. Wiss. Zool., vol. 75, p. 1. 
Boyle, R. 

1667. Experiments concerning the relation between light and air in shining 
wood and fish. Philos. Trans. Roy. Soc, vol. 2, p. 206. 
Brown, E. S., and King, C. V. 

1931. The nature of the photogenic response of Photuris pennsylvanica . 
Physiol. Zool., vol. 4, p. 287. 

BUCHNER, P. 

1914. Sind die Leuchtorgane Pilzorgane? Zool. Anz., vol. 45, p. 17. 
1926. Tierisches Leuchten und Symbiose. 58 pp. Berlin. 
Buck, J. B. 

1935. Periodicity and diurnal rhythm in the firefly, Photinus pyralis. Anat. 

Rec, vol. 64, suppL, p. 66. 
1935 a. Synchronous flashing of fireflies experimentally induced. Science, 
vol. 81, p. 339. 

1937. Studies on the firefly. I. The effects of light and other agents on 

flashing in Photinus pyralis, with special reference to periodicity 
and diui'nal rhythm. Physiol. Zool., vol. 10, p. 45. 
1937 a. Studies on the firefly. II. The signal system and color vision in 

Photinus pyralis. Physiol. Zool., vol. 10, p. 412. 
1937 b. Spectral composition of the light emitted by Jamaican fireflies. 

Anat. Rec, vol. 70, suppl., p. 114. 
1937 c Flashing of fireflies in Jamaica. Nature, vol. 139, p. 801. London. 

1938. Synchronous rhythmic flashing of fireflies. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol. 

13, p. 301. 
Carpenter, W. B. 

1854. Principles of comparative physiology. 770 pp., London. 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 399 

COBLENTZ, W. W. 

1912. A physical study of the firefly. Carnegie Inst. Washington Publ. 
No. 164. 

Cook, O. F. 

1900. Camphor secreted by an animal, Polyzonium. Science, vol. 12, p. 516. 
Creighton, W. S. 

1926. The effect of adrenahn on the luminescence of fireflies. Science, 
vol. 63, p. 600. 
Dahlqren, U. 

1915-16. The production of light by animals. Journ. Franklin Inst., vol. 

180, pp. 513, 717; vol. 181, pp. 109, 243, 377, 525, 659, 805. 
1917. The production of Hght by animals. Ibid., vol. 183, p. 323. 
Deegener, p. 

1928. Respirations-organe. Ch. 5, in Shroder's Handb. d. Entomologie, 
vol. 1, 1426 pp. 
Dubois, R. 

1885. Fonction photogenique des Pyrophores. C. R. Soc. Biol., vol. 37, 

p. 559. 

1886. Contribution a I'^tude de la production de la lumifire par les 6tres. 

Les filaterides lumineux. Bull. Soc. Zool. France, Ann6e II, p. 1. 
1887 a. Note sur la fonction photog6nique chez les Pholades. C. R. Soc. 

Biol., vol. 4, p. 564. 
1887 b. De la fonction photogenique chez la Pholas dactylus. C. R. Acad. 
Sci., vol. 105, p. 690. 

1913. M^canisme intime de la production de la lumiSre chez les organismes 

vivantes. Ann. Soc. Linn. Lyons, vol. 60, p. 81. 

1914. De la place occup^e par la biophotog6n6se dans la s6rie des ph6nomSnes 

lumineux. Ibid., vol. 61, p. 247. 
1914 a. La vie et la lumidre, Paris, cf. Harvey, 1919. 
Emery, C. 

1884. Untersuchungen liber Luciola italica. Zeitschr. Wiss. Zool., vol. 40, 

p. 338. 

1885. La luce della Luciola italica, osservata col Microscopio. Bull. Soc. 

Entom. Ital., vol. 17, p. 351; see also Journ. Roy. Micr. Soc, p. 234, 
1886. 

1886. La luce negli amori delle Luciole. Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., vol. 18, 

p. 406. 
Gazagnaire, J. 

1890. La phosphorescence chez les Myriopodes de la famiUe des Geophilidae. 
M4m. Soc. Zool. France, vol. 3, p. 136. 
Geipel, E. 

1915. Beitrage zur Anatomic der Leuchtorgane tropischer Kafer. Zeitschr. 

Wiss. Zool., vol. 112, p. 239. 

GORTNER, R. A. 

1911. Studies on melanin. IV. The origin of the pigment and the color 
pattern in the elytra of the Colorado potato beetle, {Leptinotarsa 
decimlineata Say). Amer. Nat., vol. 45, p. 743. 
VON Guerioke, O. 

1654. (See Catalogue of the special loan collection of scientific apparatus at 
the South Kensington Museum, 1877, London, 1084 pp.). 

1672. Experimenta nova (ut vocantur) Magdeburgica de vacuo spatio. 
Amsterdam, 249 pp. 



400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Hanstrom, B. 

1928. Vergleichende Anatomic des Nervensystems der wirbellosen Tiere. 
628 pp., Berlin. 
Harvey, E. N. 

1916 a. Studies on bioluminescence. IV. The chemistry of light production 
in a Japanese ostracod crustacean, Cypridina hilgendorfii, Miiller. 
Amer. Journ. Physiol., vol. 42, p. 318. 
1916 b. V, The chemistry of light production by the firefly. Ibid., vol. 42, 

p. 342. 
1916 c. The mechanism of light production in animals. Science, vol. 44, 
p. 208. 

1916 d. The light-producing substances, photogenin and photophelein, of 

luminous animals. Science, vol. 44, p. 652. 

1917 a. Studies on bioluminescence. IV. The chemistry of hght production 

in a Japanese ostracod, Cypridina hilgendorfii, Miiller. Amer. 
Journ. Physiol., vol. 42, p. 318. 
1917 b. The chemistry of light-production in luminous organisms. Car- 
negie Inst. Washington, Publ. No. 251, pp. 171-234. 

1918. Studies on bioluminescence. VII. Reversibility of the photogenic 

reaction in Cypridina. Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 1, p. 133. 

1919. The nature of animal Hght. 182 pp., Philadelphia. 

1919 a. Studies on bioluminescence. X. Carbon dioxide production during 
luminescence of Cypridina luciferin. Journ. Gen. Physiol., 
vol. 2, p. 133. 

1920. Is the luminescence of Cypridina an oxidation? Amer. Journ. Physiol., 

vol. 51, p. 580. 

1921. A fish, with a luminous organ, designed for the growth of luminous 

bacteria. Science, vol. 53, p. 314. 

1924. Studies on bioluminescence. XVI. What determines the color of the 

light of luminous animals? Amer. Journ. Physiol., vol. 70, p. 619. 
1924 a. Recent advances in bioluminescence. Physiol. Rev., vol. 4, p. 639. 

1925. Luminous fishes of the Banda Sea. Nat. Hist., vol. 25, p. 353. 

1926 a. Additional data on the specificity of luciferin and lucif erase, together 
with a general survey of this reaction. Amer. Journ. Physiol., vol. 
77, p. 584. 

1926 b. Oxygen and luminescence, with a description of methods for remov- 

ing oxygen from cells and fluids. Biol. Bull., vol. 51, p. 89. 

1927 a. On the quanta of light produced and the molecules of oxygen utilized 

during Cypridina luminescence. Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 10, 
p. 875. 

1927 b. Bioluminescence. Bull. Nat. Res. Council, vol. 59, p. 50. 

1928. Studies on the oxidation of luciferin without luciferase and the mecha- 
nism of bioluminescence. Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 78, p. 369. 

1928 a. Stability of luminous substances of luminous animals. Proc. Soc. 

Exp. Biol. Med., vol. 26, p. 133. 
1931 a. Chemical aspects of the luminescence of deep-sea shrimps. Zoologica, 

Sci. Contr. N. Y. Zool. Soc, vol. 12, p. 71. 
1931 b. Photocell analysis of the light of the Cuban elaterid beetle, Pyrophorus. 

Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 15, p. 139. 
1931 c. Cold light. Sci. Monthly, vol. 32, p. 270. 
1932. The evolution of bioluminescence and its relation to cell respiration. 

Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. 71, p. 135. 
1935. The mechanism and kinetics of bioluminescent reactions. Cold 
Spring Harbor Symposia on Quant. Biol., vol. 3, p. 261. 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 401 

1935 a. Lucif erase, the enzyme concerned in luminescence of living organisms. 
Erg. Enzymsforsch., vol. 4, p. 365. 
Harvey, E. N., and Dietrick, J. E. 

1930. The production of antibodies for Cypridina luciferase and luciferin in 

the body of a rabbit. Journ. Immunology, vol. 18, p. 65. 
Harvet, E. N., and Hall, R. T. 

1929. Will the adult firefly luminesce if its larval organs are entirely removed? 

Science, vol. 69, p. 253. 
Harvey, E. N., and Korr, I. M. 

1938. Luminescence in absence of oxygen in the ctenophore, Mnemiopsis 

leidy. Journ. Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 12, p. 319. 
Harvey, E. N., and Lavin, G. I. 

1931. Reduction of oxyluciferin by atomic hydrogen. Science, vol. 74, p. 150. 
Harvey, E. N., and Morrison, T. F. 

1923. The minimum concentration of oxygen necessary for luminescence by 

luminous bacteria. Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 6, p. 13. 
Harvey, E. N., and Stevens, K. P. 

1928. The brightness of the light of the West Indian elaterid. Ptjrophorus. 
Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 12, p. 269. 
Heidt, K. 

1936. t)ber das Leuchten der CoUembolen Onychiurus armatus Tbg. und 
Achorutes muscorum Tempi. Biol. Zentralblatt, vol. 56, p. 100. 
Heinemann, C. 

1886. Zur Anatomic und Physiologic der Leuchtorgane mexikanischer Cucu- 
jos (Pyrophorus) . Arch. Mikr. Anat., vol. 27, p. 296. 
Hess, V. C. 

1922. Radioluminescence and its technical application. Trans. Ilium. Eng. 
Soc.,p. 127. 
Hess, W. N. 

1921. Tracheation of the light organs of some common Lampyridae. Anat. 
Rec, vol. 20, p. 155. 
Ives, H. E. 

1910. Further studies on the firefly. Physical Rev., vol. 31, p. 637. 
Kanda, S. 

1920. Physico-chemical studies on bioluminescence. I. On the luciferin 

and luciferase of Cypridina hilgendorfii. Amer. Journ. Physiol., 
vol. 50, p. 544. 
1920 a. II. The production of light by Cypridina hilgendorfii is not an oxida- 
tion. Ibid., vol. 50, p. 561. 
1920 b. III. The production of light by Luciola vitticollis is an oxidation. 
Ibid., vol. 53, p. 137. 

1921. IV. The physical and chemical nature of the luciferase of Cypridina 

hilgendorfii. Ibid., vol. 55, p. 1. 

1924. V. The physical and chemical nature of the luciferin of Cypridina 

hilgendorfii. Ibid., vol. 68, p. 435. 

1930. The chemical nature of Cypridina luciferin. Science, vol. 71, p. 444. 
Kastle, J. H., and McDermott, F. A. 

1910. Some observations on the production of light by the firefly. Amer. 
Journ. Physiol., vol. 27, p. 122. 
Kemp, S. 

1910. Notes on the photophores of decapod Crustacea. Proc. Zool. Soc. 
London, p. 639. 
DE Kerville, H. G. 

1890. Les animaux et les v^g^taux lumineux. 327 pp., Paris. 



402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Koch, A. 

1929. Studien an leuchtenden Tieren. I. Das Leuchten der Myriapoden. 
Zeits. Morph. Okol. Tiere, vol. 8, p. 241. 

VON KoiiLIKER, A. 

1857. tJber das Leuchten der Lampyris. Verhandl. d. Wurzb. Phys.-Med. 
Gesellsch. vol. 8, p. 217. English transl. in Quart. Journ. Micr. 
Sci., vol. 6, p. 166. 

KUHNT, p. 

1907. Das Leuchten der Lampyriden. Ent. Wochenschr., vol. 24. 
Langley, S. p. 

1902. Annals Astrophys. Observ., vol. 2, p. 5. (Cf. Harvey, 1919.) 
Langley, S. P., and Very, F. W. 

1890. On the cheapest form of light. Amer. Journ. Sci., 3rd ser., vol. 40, 
p. 97. 
Lund, E. J. 

1911. On the structure, physiology and use of the photogenic organs, with 

special reference to the Lampyrides. Journ. Exp. Zool., vol. 2, 
p. 415. 
Macaire, J. 

1821. Mdmoire sur la phosphorescence des Lampyres. Journ. de Physique, 

vol. 93, p. 46. 

1822. Ueber die Phosphoreszenz der Leuchtkafer. Bibl. univers. de Geneve, 

1821. Gilbert's Annal., vol. 70, p. 265. 
McDermott, F. a. 

1912. Observations on the light emission of American Lampyridae. IV. 

Canadian Entom. p. 309. 
1917. Observations on the light emission of American Lampyridae. V. Ibid, 
p. 53. 
Malup, N. S. R. 

1938. The basis of the rhythmic flashing of the "firefly." Ann. Entom. Soc. 
Amer., Sept. 
Mangold, E. 

1910-14. Die Produktion von Licht. In Wintcrstein's Handb. Vergl. 
Physiol., vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 225-392. 
Mast, S. O. 

1912. Behavior of fireflies {Photinus pyralis?) with special reference to the 
problem of orientation. Journ. Animal Behavior, vol. 2, p. 256. 

1923. Photic orientation in insects with special reference to the drone fly, 

Eristalis tenax and the robber fly, Erax rubifarbis. Journ. Exp. 
Zool. vol. 38 p. 109. 
Morse, E. S. 

1924. The synchronous flashing of fireflies. Science, vol. 59, p. 163. 
Murray, J. 

1826. Experimental researches. Glasgow, see pp. 9 and 71; cf. Tiedemann, 
1830. 
Ofsianikof, p. 

1863. Ueber das Leuchten der Larven von Lampyris nociiluca. Bull. Acad. 
Imper. St. Petersburg, vol. 7, p. 55. 
Okada, Y. K. 

1935. Origin and development of the photogenic organs of lampyrids, with 
special reference to those of Luciola cruciata and Pyrocoelia rufc. 
Mem. Coll. Sci. Kyoto, vol. lOB, p. 209. 



BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION — MALUF 403 

Osten-Sacken, Baron. 

1861. Die amerikanischen Leuchtkafer. Stettiner Entom. Zeitung, vol. 22, 
p. 54. 
Parlin, W. a. 

1935. How bright is a lightning bug? Scientific American, vol. 153, p. 15. 
Pasteur, L. 

1864. Sur la lumiere phosphorescente des Cucujos. C. R. Acad. Sci., vol. 59, 

p. 509. 
Perkins, M. 

1931. Light of glowworms. Nature, vol, 128, p. 903. London. 
Peters, A. W. 

1841. Ueber das Leuchten der Lampyris italica. Arch. Anat. u. Physiol, u. 
Vergl. Anat. p. 229. 
Pierantoni, U. 

1914. La luce degle insetti luminosi e la simbiosa ereditaria. Rendic. Acad. 

Sci. di Napoli, fasc. 1 to 4. 
1918. Les microorganismes physiologiques et la luminescence des animaux. 
Scientia, vol. 23, p. 43. 
Polimanti, O. 

1911. Ueber das Leuchten von Pyrosoma elegans Les. Zeitschr. Biol., vol. 
55, p. 505. 
Pratjb, a. 

1923. Das Leuchten der Organismen, eine tjbersicht iiber die neuere Literatur. 
Erg. Physiol., vol. 21, p. 1. 
Ramdas, L. a., and Venkiteshwaran, L. P. 

1931. The spectrum of a glowworm (Lampyridae) . Note. Nature, vol. 128, 
p. 726. London. 

SCHLEIP, W. 

1914. Uber die Frage nach der Beteiligung des Nervensysteras beim Farben- 
wechsel von Dixippus. Zool. Jahrb. Allg. Zool., vol. 35, p. 225. 

1920. Uber den Einflusz des Lichtes auf die Farbung von Dixippus und die 
Frage der Erblichkeit des erworbenen Farbkleides. Zool. Anz.. 
vol. 52, p. 151. 

SCHTJLTZE, M. 

1865. Zur Kenntnis der lieuchtorgane von Lampyris splendidula. Arch. 

Mikr. Anat., vol. 1, p. 124. 
Shapiro, H. 

1934. The light intensity of luminous bacteria as a function of oxygen pres- 

sure. Journ. Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 4, p. 313. 
Snell, p. a. 

1931. The neuro-muscular mechanism controlling flashing in the lampyrid 

fireflies. Science, vol. 73, p. 372. 

1932. The control of luminescence in the male firefly, Phoiuris pennsylvanica, 

with special reference to the effect of oxygen on flashing. Journ. 
Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 1, p. 37. 
Spallanzani, L. 

1794. Memoria sopra le Meduse fosforiche. Mem. Soc. Ital. Verona, vol. 7, 

p. 271. 
1796. Chimico essame degli esperimenti del Sign. Goettling sopra la luce 
del fosforo. Modena, p. 119, cf. Tiedemann, 1830. 
Sumner, J. B. 

1933. The chemical nature of enzymes. Journ. Nutrition, vol. 6, p. 103. 

1935. Enzymes. Ann. Rev. Biochem., vol. 4, p. 37. 
114728—39 27 



404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Sumner, J. B., and Dounce, A. L. 

1937. Crystalline catalase. Science, vol. 85, p. 366. 
Templer, J. 

1671. Some observations concerning glowworms. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc, 
vol. 1, p. 603. 

TiEDEMANN, F. 

1830. A systematic treatise on comparative physiology introductory to the 
physiology of man. Engl, transl. by J. M. Gully and J. H. Lane in 
1834, vol. 1, 431 pp. London., 
TONNER, F. 

1933. Ein Beitrag zur Anatomie und Physiologie des peripheren Nerven- 
systems von Astacus fluviatilis. Zool. Jahrb., allg., vol. 53, p. 101. 

TOWNBHEND, A. B. 

1904. The histology of the light organs of Photinus marginellus. Amer. Nat., 
vol. 38, p. 127. 
Walter, A. 

1909. Das Leuchten einer terrestrischen Oligochaeten. Trav. Soc. Nat. St. 
Petersburg, C. R. Stances, vol. 40, p. 136. 
Wata8:6, S. 

1895. Physical basis of animal phosphorescence. Biol. Lectures, Woods Hole. 
Welsh. J. H. 

1938. Diurnal rhythms. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol. 13, p. 123. 
Wheeler, W. M., and Williams, F. X. 

1915. The luminous organ of the New Zealand glowworm. Psyche, vol. 22, 
p. 36. 
VON Wielowieski, H. R, 

1882. Zur Kenntniss der Leuchtorgane von Lampyriden. Zeitschr. Wiss. 

Zool., vol. 37, p. 354. 
1889. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Leuchtorgane der Insekten. Zool. Anz., 
vol. 12, p. 594. 
Wigglesworth, V. B. 

1929. A theory of tracheal respiration in insects. Nature, vol. 124, p. 986. 

London. 

1930. A theory of tracheal respiration in insects. Proc. Roy. Soc. London, 

vol. 106B, p. 229. 

1931. The respiration of insects. Biol. Rev., vol. 6, p. 181. 

1932. The extent of air in the tracheoles of some terrestrial insects. Proc. 

Roy.'.Soc. London, vol. 109B, p. 354. 
Williams, F. X. 

1916-17. Photogenic organs and embryology of lampyrids. Journ. Morph., 
vol. 28, p. 145. 
Young, C. A. 

1870. Spectrum of the firefly. Amer. Nat., vol. 3, p. 615. 



THE BLACK WIDOW SPIDER ' 



By Fred E. D'Amottr, Frances E. Becker, and Walker Van Riper 
Research Laboratories, University of Denver 



[With five plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

This study was undertaken somewhat in the nature of a summer 
diversion. Our interest in the black widow spider was first aroused 
by the work of Blair (1934) which received considerable publicity 
during the winter and spring of 1934. When it was found that these 
spiders were fairly numerous in and around Denver, and a search of 
the literature indicated that many points concerning their life history 
and the properties of their venom were not definitely established, a 
modest research program devoted to their study seemed to promise 
considerable enjoyment, even though the results might not have an 
exceedingly great scientific value. Since we could hardly hope to 
make a specialized study in any one particular field, we decided to 
explore all of them a Uttle. In consequence, this paper gives findings 
covering various aspects of the problem. In the first part the appear- 
ance of the spider is described, and observations concerning its natural 
history recorded. In the second, studies concerning the toxicity of 
the venom, its chemistry, immunology, toxicology, and pathology 
are reported. Most of the experiments herein reported were carried 
out during the summer of 1934. However, delay in publication per- 
mits inclusion of certain observations and experiments conducted 
during 1935. The total number of spiders collected has been about 
6,500, and some 500 rats have been used. 

The literature up to 1932 has been adequately reviewed by Bogen 
(1932); reference to other important work will be made in the appro- 
priate place. 

NATURAL HISTORY 

Spiders have a fife that is vivid and intense, though so unobtrusive 
that we usually do not see them, or at most pay little attention to 
them. Specialists find them fascinating as a group because of their 
anatomical peculiarities, their production of silk, and their habits of 



1 Reprinted by permission, with some omissions, from Ttie Quarterly Beview of Biology, vol. 11, No. 2, 
June 1936. 

405 



406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

preparing snares for prey. Laymen are but little interested in 
spiders because their apparent economic value is negligible. The 
average person is likely to have an active dislike, if any feeling at all, 
for spiders. This dislike is not based on justifiable fear. The effect 
of the bite of a spider has long been a question. The Tarantula, a 
small wolf spider of southern Europe, figured in early legends because 
of the music and extravagant bacchic display designed to incite the 
patient to the violent dancing which was thought to be the sole cure 
for its bite. 

The only other type of spider that has gained a wide and infamous 
reputation is Latrodedus, a genus of the family Theridiidae. Stories 
of the deadly nature of the bites of these spiders are current among 
the peoples of all the regions of the world in which they occur. It is 
difficult to believe that there is no basis in fact for the similar beUefs 
that have grown up in such widely separated regions as Europe, 
America, Madagascar, New Zealand, Algeria, and the West Indies. 
Arachnologists of the old school were inclined to believe that the 
stories were based on mistaken evidence. Even today some main- 
tain that the reports of the venomous qualities are greatly exaggerated. 
In the case of Latrodedus, incomplete observation gives conflicting 
evidence. There are authentic reports of bites of this genus of spider 
being followed by no harmful results. There are equally authentic 
reports of fatalities, or of more or less serious and disagreeable symp- 
toms, followed by recovery. 

The divergence of opinion in regard to the effect of the bite has a 
simple and reasonable explanation. All spiders have poison glands, 
which open near the tips of the fangs of the chelicerae. The contents 
of the poison sac are expelled by muscular action, undoubtedly volun- 
tary on the part of the spider. A "bite," therefore, does not neces- 
sarily imply the injection of the venom, but might be entirely harm- 
less. The injection of varying amounts of venom would explain the 
gradations in the seriousness of the consequences. Nothing but 
carefully controlled laboratory experiments can give conclusive 
evidence in a question of this sort. 

The fact that the spider has many common names indicates an 
enforced recognition. The natives of Madagascar know their two 
species as "Vancoho" and "Mena-vedi." The New Zealand species is 
the "Katipo." Latrodedus 13-guttatus of southern Europe is known 
as the "Malmignatte." The common American species, Latrodedus 
madans, was the "Pokomoo" of the Indians, who knew the potency 
of its venom for making poisoned arrows. Other common names for 
this spider are the "Black Widow," the "Hourglass," or "Shoebutton" 
spider 

The Standard Dictionary says that the derivation of Latrodedus is 
apparently from two Greek words meaning "pay received." Jaeger 



BLACK WIDOW SPIDER — D'AMOUR ET AL. 407 

(Dictionary of Latin Combining Forms Used in Zoological Names) 
derives it from latro, Greek, a robber; and deci{o), Greek, to bite, biting, 
a biter; hence, Latrodectus, a robber-biter. Mactans is a Latin word 
meaning "murderous." 

DISTRIBUTION 

The most recent review of the distribution of the black widow which 
has come to our attention is that of Burt (1935). This study, com- 
bined with that of Bogen, leaves only the following States from 
which the black widow has not been reported: Oregon, Minnesota, 
Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin, Illinois, and Vermont. It is almost cer- 
tainly present in Oregon; in fact, very probably it will be found in 
every State of the Union. According to Phillip (1935), Canadian 
records are available for the Provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, 
Manitoba, and Ontario, and southward its range in the mainland ex- 
tends at least to Peru. The species has also been reported from 
the West Indies. 

HABITAT 

The web of the black widow is an irregular structure, made of coarse, 
elastic, tough silk. There is usually a central nest or pocket about the 
size of one's finger to which the spider retreats when she is frightened, 
and to which she carries many of her meals. The web is evidently 
being constantly renewed and repaired, as the silk in an abandoned 
web is dull in appearance, brittle, and weak, and easily distinguished 
from the silk in an occupied web. The structure may be of no greater 
extent than the mouth of a gopher hole, or as much as a yard each 
way on the surface of a bank, probably being enlarged with the con- 
stant renovation. Once the widow has established her web, she is 
not likely to be found outside of it unless by accident or intent some 
superior force drives her out. When this happens, she shows her dis- 
comfort and fear by timid and awkward actions. With the onset of 
cold weather, however, many reports have reached us of spiders 
crawUng about on walls and floors of dwelUngs. Apparently the cold 
has driven them inside and they are hunting a more favorable winter 
residence. 

The location of the web seems to be largely a matter of chance, 
though in our locality some favorite sites are permanent holes or 
fissures in a bank, such as the excavations made by swallows in a clay 
bank; in brick, rock, or trash piles; in sheds, garages, outbuildings, and 
basements; under loose rocks and in eroded holes in granite; in tile 
roofs, etc. Webs and spiders have been found in abandoned birds' 
nests in the pine trees of the foothills. Recently we found the whole 
south side of a new country house in the suburbs of Denver harboring 
young widows of this season in every possible retreat behind shutters, 



408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

rain spouts, etc. Webs have been observed in the prickly pear cactus, 
where they spread about in the branches of the plant, with the central 
nests in the trash on the ground. In the summer of 1934, perhaps 
owing to the dryness, these spiders seem to have invaded the residential 
districts in unusually large numbers, and one of us actually found a 
mature black widow ensconced behind some books in the library. 
Reports have come to us of their being found commonly in box cars 
and a communication from fruit growers on the western slope of the 
Colorado Rockies stated that grapes were going to waste because 
pickers refused to work among the spider-infested vines. We have 
seen the black widow or had reports of her in all parts of Colorado. 
One was collected at an altitude of 8,000 feet near Buffalo Park, the 
record altitude so far as our personal experience goes, and we collected 
specimens both in 1934 and 1935 at an altitude of about 7,300 feet in 
Estes Park. Recently we have received from a trustworthy source a 
record of one taken near the village of Estes Park at an altitude of 
8,200 feet. 

It is evident from the above statements that the spider recognizes 
few geographic barriers except extreme cold and is also easily satisfied 
with her local surroundings. At the same time, we have found 
certain particular locations very densely populated and it would 
appear that these are the most favorable in insuring survival. As 
stated, we have collected approximately 6,500 spiders. By far the 
greatest number of these were captured in the foothills country between 
Denver and Colorado Springs. The hillsides are of disintegrating 
limestone, forming fissures and clefts in the cliff faces, and with many 
boulders on the gentler slopes. On the south slopes of these hiUs and 
canyons, nearly every cleft and hole in the cliff has a web across its 
mouth, nearly every boulder a web along its lower margin. The insect 
life is not particularly abundant, but in such regions as this one can 
collect several hundred spiders within a few hours. It should be 
noted, however, that the size of the spider seems to be in direct 
proportion to the size of the rock, and to collect large specimens one 
must have the fortitude to turn over large rocks 

The web serves as a snare for the prey on which the spider feeds — 
flies, beetles, grasshoppers, and the other insects that blunder into it. 
We have even observed a small mouse entangled and several times 
have seen the large western cicada, which is nearly as big as a mouse, a 
victim. Usually whatever touches the web is securely caught almost 
at the first contact, and its struggles only tie it the more tightly. 
Large grasshoppers, however, can kick themselves free and require 
prompt and energetic measures on the part of the spider. She 
belongs to the family of "comb-footed" spiders which are distinguished 
by the presence on the tarsus of the fourth pair of legs of a distinct 
comb, consisting of a row of strong, curved, and toothed setae. The 



BLACK WroOW SPIDER — D'AMOUR ET AL. 409 

comb is used for flinging silk, in an almost liquid state, over the en- 
tangled prey. It is interesting to see the technique employed in 
subduing one of the larger grasshoppers, an animal considerably 
bigger and many times stronger than the spider. What she does is to 
hog-tie the powerful jumping legs of the victim and after submission is 
gained in this way she takes her time about administering the fatal bite. 

HIBERNATION 

In the vicinity of Denver we have been able to collect specimens 
in every month of the year. The degree of activity shown by spiders 
collected in the winter months appears to depend on the temperature ; 
if it is warm, individuals captured behave about as they do in summer; 
if it is cold, they are more or less torpid. They have been found in 
winter in all the common places, and we have never observed the 
slightest evidence of special preparation against the cold — nothing in 
the way of additional web or better protection for the nest. Many 
of those foimd under rocks and in trash heaps appear to have made 
no webs of any kind. In December last year, after a heavy snow 
with cold nights, we picked up a specimen from the bottom of a pile 
of tumbleweeds, about as wet and cold a spot as one could imagine. 
Later, in an unheated room, where half a dozen recently collected 
spiders were exposed to a temperature of 10° below zero in a sudden 
cold snap, all were frozen. 

METHODS OF COLLECTING 

Latrodectus is ready both by day and by night for any passing 
victim and at night is easily spotted Avith a flashlight. An easy method 
of collecting from holes in banks and similar places is to tie a beetle 
to a string 18 inches or so long with the other end of the string attached 
to a stick of handy size. When the beetle is dropped into a web, if 
the spider is hungry, she will at once rush out to capture the strugghng 
insect. Web and spider may then be struck down and the spider 
transferred by means of forceps to the collecting bottle. Sometimes 
one may pull out web and egg sacs so that they dangle just outside 
the hole. After some time the female may frequently be caught out- 
side in the act of rescuing her eggs and repairing the damage to the 
web. During the capture of the widow she almost always exhibits 
the cataleptic reflex, "playing possum," a protective habit that is 
common to almost all kinds of spiders, and when picked up by a leg 
with the forceps she is likely to cast the leg, another protective device 
that is familiar to spider observers everywhere. 



410 ANNUAL. KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

TEMPERAMENT 

Dining on the crumbs from the widow's table is a tiny, long-legged 
commensal, Psilochorus utahensis (Chamberlin), identified for us by 
Dr. W. J. Gertsch of the American Museum of Natural History, which 
is commonly found in black widow webs in this locality, often half a 
dozen or so, males and females, to a web, the females carrying their eggs 
in the chelicerae. With this exception the widow is generally found 
alone, since her fierce and predaceous habits cause her to kill any insect 
invader or be killed. The "killer instinct" is apparent in the follow- 
ing description of a typical conflict observed in a web located in a 
well-lighted hole, about eye level, in a brickyard bank. The occupant 
was a large female with two egg sacs in the upper part of the web. 
She was hanging, back down, on one of the sacs — a characteristic 
position. A small mirror was used to shine light into the hole so that 
everything might be clearly seen. The observer placed another widow, 
previously collected, into the outer part of the web. There was no 
movement for a moment; then the alien oriented herself and moved 
a short distance into the web. The occupant coimtered by leaving 
the egg sac and advancing a spider's length toward the interloper. 
Both advanced and stopped alternately until they approached each 
other in the center of the web. All their movements were deUberate 
and cautious. There was a moment of absolute stillness, then, with 
a motion too quick for the eye, the occupant threw a shower of thick, 
sticky silk, which spurted from the spinnerets at the tip of the abdomen 
and was flung over the invader by a skillful manipulation of the hind 
legs. The victim was rapidly rolled over and over in a net until it 
was completely covered like a mummy. It was only then, when the 
risk was past and all secure, that the poison bite was administered. 

Contests staged in the laboratory estabhshed the fact that a bite 
upon another spider causes paralysis immediately, but does not 
necessarily produce death. Victims removed from the web after they 
were helpless and all prepared for the victor to begin feeding were 
found to recover their powers of motion after several hours, and to be 
apparently normal the next day. In contrast to the fierce nature of 
the spider toward others of her kind is the extreme timidity which 
she exhibits toward unnatural disturbances of her web, such as might 
be caused by a collector. At the first molestation of the web, she 
retreats with incredible speed into the central nest, and does not 
venture out again for hours. We have never seen the slightest at- 
tempt at defense, to say nothing of aggression, on her part under such 
circumstances. 

MEANS OF DISPERSAL 

Spiders show two definite tropisms. When they are young they are 
negatively geotropic, tending to climb upward; at aU stages they are 



BLACK WIDOW SPIDER — DAMOUR ET AL. 411 

negatively heliotropic, tending to move away from the light. The 
geotropism of the young provides a means of dispersal. Once the 
maiden flight has been effected and dispersal accomplished, the spiders 
no longer exhibit the tropism. The following observations on the 
dispersal of the spiderlings were made by us. 

A glass tube about 1 ji inches in diameter and 3 feet long, enclosing 
a piece of bamboo of the same length wound with raffia, was closed 
with cloth at both ends after a newly made egg sac had been placed 
inside on the bottom cloth. The whole contrivance was then set 
upright in a retort stand. The bamboo inside the glass tube would 
furnish the spiderlings something to climb on should they have the 
instinct to do so after emergence from the sac. About 4 weeks after 
the spinning of the sac, there were two little swarms of 50 or 60 
spiderlings each at the base of the tube near the sac. During the day 
they all climbed their artificial tree and swarmed at the top of the 
tube. The next morning the apparatus was carried out into the 
country, the top cover removed, and the length of the artificial tree 
increased by a 3-foot stick. Immediately about 15 of the little spiders 
detached themselves from the swarm and intently climbed to the very 
tip of the new stick. The sun was shining and a little breeze blowing 
from the south. Suddenly a tiny mite was snapping about in space 
18 inches or 2 feet from the stick. It was a spiderling waving in the 
breeze at the end of a gossamer drag-line which it had spun as it was 
blown from its moorings. Then the spider was observed to be working 
its way back along the line; not drawing in the line but leaving it out, 
possibly doubhng it. The adventurer reached his dock again, leaving 
the silken thread flapping in the breeze. Suddenly the line broke at 
its base, or was cut by the spiderling behind him, and he sailed away 
into space too rapidly for the eye to follow the course very far. This 
happened again and again, till of the original 15 adventurers only 2 or 
3 remained. This explains the disappearance of the young spiders 
from the maternal web so soon after emergence, and explains also their 
being found later in life in curious places to which chance blew them 
on their initial flight. 

When the young spider ends its voyage we must imagine that it 
seeks the first hole or crack available as shelter. Here it spins a 
web not unlike that of the mother, but on a small scale, catches its 
prey in the same way, and if circumstances are propitious, sets up a 
permanent establishment. 

ENEMIES 

In spite of the fact that the poison of the widow is deadly to all 
small animals, she has a number of natural enemies. We have ob- 
served the vireo feeding the spider to her nestlings, and pigeons and 
chickens may eat it with impunity, the latter with apparent relish. 



412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Field mice and related mammals probably take the spider when they 
find her, since we have never observed one under a rock that shelters 
rodents. Possibly some of the hunting spiders can overcome the 
widow, although in laboratory observations she has always prevailed 
over any other spider put in with her. 

In all the thousands of spiders that we have handled we have never 
noticed a single case of a disease or parasite that appeared to be 
destructive of the mature spider. In a smaU percentage of cases 
(3 out of 207 in one series) we have found the egg sacs parasitized 
by a small ichneumon which the late Professor Crosby, of Cornell, 
identified for us as Gelis sp., relatives of which are widely known as 
parasites of spider cocoons. The flies oviposit on or in the egg sac, 
the larvae consume the contents of the sac, pupate inside the sac, 
and the flies emerge. We have also found, in the debris of the spider's 
web, in the empty egg sacs and in various other similar places, the 
active and omniverous larvae of one of the Dermestid beetles, the 
common museum pests. Whether these grubs are only scavengers 
cleaning up the waste from the spider's table, or are also capable of 
destroying the living eggs, we have not been able to determine as 
yet. But we suspect that both are true. 

There can be no question, however, but that the blue mud dauber 
(Chalybion cyaneum King) is a predator on the black widow. We 
have collected many mud dauber nests and have frequently found 
immature black widows stored as food for the larvae. Recently 
Irving and Hinman (1935) have pubHshed similar findings. In 
Lamar, Colo., where black widows have been extremely prevalent the 
past 2 years, residents have told us that the mud daubers seem un- 
usually scarce. It may be that in nature the mud dauber is one of 
the chief factors in holding the black widow in check. 

EXPERIMENTAL 
STUDIES ON TOXICITY 

The first problem was to study the toxicity of the venom and to 
develop a reliable means of assay. Most experimental studies pre- 
viously reported fall under two heads as far as the source of the 
material used is concerned. Some workers have proceeded by placing 
the spider upon a shaved area of the animal used and pinching it with 
forceps until it bit. Others have used the macerated heads of the 
spiders as theii' experimental material. Early in our work we tried 
both methods, but soon learned that they were unreliable and that 
consistent results could not be obtained. If one employs the first 
technic, he encounters several factors which are diflficult or impossible 
to control. The actual amount of venom introduced will obviously 
be dependent upon the size of the spider, its past history — that is, 



BLACK WIDOW SPIDER — D'AMOUR ET AL. 



413 



how long since it last made use of its poison apparatus and the speed 
of regeneration of the poison — and upon the degree of anger aroused 
by the pinching. As wUl be shown later, even under conditions 
which one might suppose would excite the greatest degree of anger — 
that is, after victory in mortal combat with another spider — the 
glands stUl contain a considerable amount of venom. It seems likely 
that the glands are under some degree of volitional control and the 
amount ejected will depend upon the degree of irritation of the spider. 
This is supported by the experience of Baerg (1922), who speaks of 
spiders which bit readily and caused severe symptoms while others 
attacked only under extreme provocation. 

As for the second method, that of using macerated heads as a source 
of material, if a sufficiently large number of spiders is used, the size 
and past history factors are averaged and, of course, the question of 
degree of irritation does not enter. However, anyone who has ever 
dissected out the venom glands will have noted their toughness and 
elasticity. Macerating the heads, even though the operation is car- 
ried out thoroughly, will certainly fail to crush all glands. An un- 
known number will escape maceration and will then be discarded with 
the debris. The following tables illustrate the above points. Table 
1 gives the results of actual biting experiments. In these trials spiders 

Table 1 



Weight of rat 


Spider 


Results 


264 gm 


Large 


No symptoms. 


280 gm 


do. 


Comatose all afternoon and night, breathing shallow, hind legs 

paralyzed. Recovered. 
Symptoms much like above, in addition, foreleg paralyzed, large 

swollen area at site of bite. Recovered. 
Severe paralysis in all legs. Could not use legs, could be slid across 


308 gm 


Small. -. 


65 gm 


Average 


73 gm 


. do 


table. Breathing became dilBcult, died after 48 hours. 
No symptoms. 


80 gm 


do 











were used which had been kept in the laboratory 3 days and had not 
been fed during that period. These were placed upon shaved areas 
of the rat's abdomen and excited to bite by being pinched with forceps. 
The results are seen to be very inconsistent. 

In table 2 the results of two experiments are shown in which 
macerated heads were used, 40 heads being used in each batch. The 
wide variation in effect no doubt indicates failure to crush and extract 
all glands. 

Comparison of these results with the toxicity curve for venom ob- 
tained later indicates that even in the more active preparation a large 
number of glands must have escaped extraction. 



414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Table 2 



Batch 



Number of 
rats in- 
jected 



Amount injected 



Percent 
dead 



1. 
1. 
2. 
2. 



Equivalent of 2 spiders. 
Equivalent of 1 spider. 
Equivalent of 2 spiders 
Equivalent of 1 spider. 



TOXICITY CURVE- -VENOM 
10 RATS PER DOSE 



too^ 



In view of the inconsistent results shown above we adopted the 
following procedure as a routine method in the preparation of all 
venom used in the succeeding experiments. No fewer than 20 spiders, 
in some cases as many as 80 spiders, were used in the preparation of 
each batch of material, and in this way individual differences were 

averaged. The spiders were 
placed under light chloro- 
form anesthesia, the abdo- 
men clipped off and the 
cephalothorax and legs im- 
bedded in molten paraffin 
on a microscope slide. 
Solidification of the paraffin 
held the spider in a firm 
mounting. Under the dis- 
secting microscope the skin 
of the head above the eyes 
was clipped oft'; the venom 
glands were then clearly 
visible and could be re- 
moved with fine forceps. 
The glands were then 
placed in physiological salt 
solution and carefully pulled 
apart and thoroughly macerated. The glandular debris was trans- 
ferred to fresh saline, again macerated and washed and discarded. 
The washings were added to the original solution. 

Young rats, 50 to 60 grams in weight, were chosen as test animals, 
first, because of their availability in this laboratory; and second, 
because preliminary experiments showed that they were quite suscep- 
tible. A relatively small amount of venom would cause death and 
an adequate amount would produce a chain of symptoms which was 
a very definite and constant one. 

The toxicity curve. — The work of Trevan (1927) on biologic assays 
in general and the work of Coward and Burn (1927) and ourselves 
(1930) on the assay of estrin preparations has clearly indicated the 
necessity of using large numbers of animals in the assay of biologic 



Spider \ 
Equivalents/ 
ra.g dryi 
veriOo) J 




1/8 1/4 



.016 .032 



Figure 1. 



.oe4 



.096 



BLACK WIDOW SPmER — D'AMOUR ET AL. 



415 



preparations in order to overcome the individual variation which 
exists between animals of the same species, weight, and age. In 
order to establish the toxicity of spider venom we therefore injected 
varying amounts into groups of 10 rats per dose. Figure 1 shows the 
results obtained, with the amount of venom indicated both in frac- 
tional parts per spider and in absolute weight. 

As will be noted, the average lethal dose — that is, the amount of 
venom which will kill 50 percent of the rats — is one-fourth the venom 
contained in the glands of one spider, or 0.032 mg. This is the amount 
meant when the term "average lethal dose" or "equivalent of one- 
fourth spider" is used in describing subsequent experiments. 

Table 3 



Type of injection 


Number 
of rats 


Amount injected 


Percent 
dead 


Maximum 
life 


Subcutaneous 


6 
5 
5 

10 
10 
10 


Equivalent of H spider 



60 

100 
50 
90 

100 




Do 


Equivalent of W spider 


36 hours. 


Do... 


Equivalent of 1 spider 


24 hours. 


Intraperitoneal.. 


Equivalent of H spider... . 


12 hours. 


Do 


Equivalent of J4 spider 


8 hours. 


Do 


Equivalent of i spider 











Mode of injection. — In obtaining the above toxicity curve, as well as 
in practically aU of the later work, intraperitoneal injections were 
given. A preliminary study, the results of which are shown below, 
indicated this type of injection to be preferable, inasmuch as the 
amount of venom necessary to cause death was somewhat less and 
also the length of time before death occurred was shorter when intra- 
peritoneal injections were given. As we did not know in advance 
how plentiful the spiders would be, we naturally made use of the 
method which would require the least expenditure of venom, and 
having used this method in obtaining the toxicity curve continued 
with it in further experiments so that the results would be comparable. 

Weight of rats. — The weight of the rat is an important factor in the 
amount of venom necessary to obtain a required result. For reasons 
given, we used immature rats weighing between 50 and 60 grams. 
Litters in prospect promised an adequate supply of rats of this size 
throughout the summer months. No extensive experiment was 
carried out to discover the ratio of venom to body weight; however, 
table 4 gives the data on the few trials which were made. 

Type of spider. — The spiders used throughout in the work reported 
elsewhere in this paper were mature females, as indicated by the 
absence of any markings on the dorsal surface. (See plates.) How- 
ever, it] seemed ! desirable to investigate the toxicity of immature 
females'and of males as well. For this purpose glands from both groups 
were obtained in the usual way and injected. The results are given 
in table 5. 



416 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Table 4 



Number 
of rats 


Weight 


Amount injected 


Percent 
killed 


10 


50-60 gm 


Equivalent of H spider 


90 


4 


100-150 gm 


Equivalent of 1 spider . . 


50 


12 


200-250 gm 


Equivalent of 1 spider 


33 


8 


200-260 gm 


Equivalent of 2 spiders 


100 











These results indicate that the difference in toxicity is quaUtative 
as well as quantitative. 

Toxicity of baby spiders. — The eggs of the black widow spider hatch 
within the egg sac, and there the spiderlings undergo their first molt. 
It seemed uiterestiug to compare the toxicity of the baby spiders with 
the eggs from which they came, therefore spiders 7 to 10 days after 
their emergence from the egg sac were studied, as it was thought that 
much of the material from the egg would by that time have been 
utUized. Since it was impossible to dissect out the glands, the spiders 
were macerated iu saline, the debris filtered off, washed in fresh saline 
and the washings added. Undoubtedly many of the venom glands 
would not be crushed in this process and the toxicity indicated in 
table 6 resides iu the tissue fluids of the spiders and possibly in 
unabsorbed egg material. 

Table 5 



Type of spider 


Number 
of rats 


Amount injected 


Results 


Immature females 


3 
3 
3 
2 
3 
2 
1 
10 


Equivalent of H spider 

Equivalent of H spider 

Equivalent of 1 spider 

Equivalent of IH spider 

Equivalent of 3 spiders 

Equivalent of 6 spiders 

Equivalent of 12 spiders 

Equivalent of H spider 


No symptoms. 


Do - - 


Do. 


Do - - 


Do. 


Do -- - 


Do. 


Do 


Sick, but recovered. 


Do 


Very sick, recovered. 


Mature males . . 


Practically no symptoms. 


Mature females 


50 percent killed. 







Average length of venom glands: 

Mature females 

Immature females 

Mature males 



Mm 
1.76 
.76 
.76 



Table 6 



Number of rats 


Amount injected 


Kesults 


5 


Equivalent of 1 spider 


Slight paralysis, recovered. 


2 . 


Equivalent of 2^ spiders 


Do. 


2 


Equivalent of 5 spiders 


Severe paralysis, recovered. 


2 


Equivalent of 10 spiders 


1 died, other very sick, recovered. 









Degree oj exhaustion following biting. — As previously mentioned, 
other workers have studied the toxic effects of the venom by causing 
spiders to bite their victims. Among others, Baerg (1922) describes 



BLACK WIDOW SPIDER — D'AMOUR ET AL. 



417 



experiments done upon rats in which the first bite resulted in severe 
symptoms, a subsequent bite in less severe symptoms, and the third 
in no symptoms whatever, from which he concludes that immuniza- 
tion had occurred. As will be shown later, immunization develops 
much more slowly than these results would lead one to believe. In 
experiments done upon himself, Baerg obtained almost opposite re- 
sults, the first bite causing only local pain, whereas the second was 
followed by a very serious and painful chain of symptoms. 

We tested the question of the degree of exhaustion of venom in 
biting by placing the spiders under conditions where one would expect 
them to bite their hardest and to inject the maximum amount of 
venom. These spiders are notoriously cannibalistic. It is a well- 
known fact and one which we have observed repeatedly, that when 
two mature females, especially if one is attending an egg sac, are 
placed in one container, they will fight furiously until one or the other 
has been bitten and killed. We placed spiders together under these 
conditions ; in the first experiment the victor of one match was matched 
with another victor; in the second, spiders were used which had only 
bitten once. The results are shown in table 7. 

Table 7 





Number of 
rats 


Amount injected 


Results 


Experiment 1 . .... 


1 
2 
1 
2 


Equivalent of 1 spider 


Died. 


Do 






Experiment 2. 


Equivalent of 1 spider 


Died. 


Do 


Equivalent of J6 spider 


Sick; recovered. 









Table 8 

Mg 

Dry weight of glands from 20 spiders 4.0 

Dry weight of debris 1. 48 

Dry weight of venom 2.52 

Dry weight of venom per spider 125 

Dry weight per a. 1. d .032 

The spiders in experiment 1 had bitten others twice within a half- 
hour before being killed, those in experiment 2 had bitten others once 
within a half-hour before being killed. These results show that the 
glands still contain a considerable amount of venom — at least one- 
fourth the total amount — even after the spider has used them twice 
within the previous half-hour. It should also be stated that where 
the spider was biting for the second time, the victim usually recovered. 
No experiments were carried out to determine the length of time 
necessary for regeneration of venom. 

Potency oj venom in terms oj weight. — The poison glands were re- 
moved from 20 spiders and dried in air for 12 hours. They were 
then weighed. Following thorough maceration in distUled water, 



418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

the glandular debris was dried and weighed. The difference between 
the two weights is taken to represent the dry weight of the venom. 
This is not entirely correct, since unavoidably some glandular ele- 
ments were lost in maceration. The figure obtained errs, therefore, 
on the side of assigning a somewhat lower potency to the venom 
than is actually the case. Table 8 shows the results. 

These results indicate that on the basis of weight the venom of the 
black widow is extremely potent. In man, the spider bite results fatally 
in about 5 percent of all cases (Bogen, 1932). The rattlesnake is said 
to kill in from 15 to 25 percent; the actual amount of venom intro- 
duced is, however, much greater in the case of the snake. Experi- 
mentally, Calmette found that 0.2 mg of cobra vemon will kill a guinea 
pig, and Noguchi states that 5 mg of rattlesnake venom will kill a 
350-gram guinea pig in 24 hours. The following comparison of the 
potency of black widow with rattlesnake venom was made. Two 
specimens of the common prairie rattlesnake {Crotalus albicans, Say) 
were collected, one a male 3 feet long with eight rattles and the other 
a female 2)^ feet long with six rattles. The venom was obtained by 
pressing upon the glands, then dissecting them out and washing 
with distilled water and evaporating to dryness. Thirty-two mg of 
dried venom were obtained from the large snake and 20 mg from the 
small. The venoms were pooled and assayed. The results are given 
in table 8a. 

As 0.064 mg of spider venom killed 90 percent of injected rats, it 
appears to be about 15 times as potent on a dry-weight basis. 

Table 8a 



Number 


Amount 


Percent 


of rats 


injected 


kUled 




Mg 




10 


0.75 





10 


1.0 


90 


10 


1.5 


100 



TOXICOLOGY 



Symptomatology. — The effect of the black widow spider venom upon 
the organism has been variously described by different investigators. 
In the human, Bogen (1932) has studied a considerable series of cases 
and finds that the chain of symptoms is a remarkably constant one. 
The outstanding features in the sequence of events are as follows: 
The bite itself is not painful, being comparable to a sharp pin prick; 
a dull numbing pain ascends the extremity bitten, and then localizes 
itself in the muscles of the chest, back, and abdomen. This pain is 
excruciating in character. The abdominal wall is boardlike in its 



BLACK WIDOW SPIDER — D'AMOUR ET AL. 419 

rigidity; except for the absence of local tenderness and the involve- 
ment of other muscle groups, the pain resembles that experienced in 
the case of a ruptured appendix or perforated peptic ulcer. Due to the 
spasm of the thoracic muscles respiration is difficult. A rise in blood 
pressure occurs, there is frequently nausea and vomiting, a slight 
fever and leucocytosis. The general symptoms make their appear- 
ance within 4 hours and may last for 2 to 3 days. In fatal cases 
death occurs in from 18 to 36 hours. The observations are in general 
agreement with those of Baerg (1922) and of Blair (1934), who per- 
mitted spiders to bite them under controlled conditions. Relief from 
pain seems to be difficult to obtain, relatively large doses of morphine 
are without much effect; hot baths are very helpful. 

In the rat, administration of the venom is followed by paralytic 
symptoms which are first evidenced by a peculiar stiffness of gait 
and awkwardness in movement. The hind legs are first affected and 
the animal walks with the rear elevated. One or both forelegs are 
next affected and the animal sits in a hunched up position with the 
forelegs bent and held close to the body. At this time the animal 
refuses to move unless violently stimulated but can withdraw the 
foot if the toes be pinched. As regards respiration, we noted a differ- 
ence in behavior usually depending upon the size of the animal. In 
immature rats the respiration becomes progressively more and more 
shallow, the animal lies in a state of coma ; as death approaches, the 
breathing becomes almost imperceptible. In older rats respiration 
becomes extremely labored. The animal gasps violently for air but 
is apparently unable to fill the lungs. This labored respiration con- 
tinues until death occurs. Many rats were autopsied immediately 
after death. In all cases the lungs collapsed when the thorax was 
opened, indicating no constriction of the bronchioles, although, as 
will be noted later, ephedrine appeared to give considerable relief. 
The auricles were usually beating. There were no gross signs of 
pathologic changes. 

One effect which was invariably produced was an irritation of the 
lachrymal glands. The eyes watered profusely; they were usually 
closed or nearly so. There was always an accumulation of bloody 
serum around the nostrils, frequently in considerable amounts. This 
happened even when there was no labored respiration. The animals 
suffered from thirst and in the earlier stages made efforts to drink 
but were apparently unable to swallow. 

DISCUSSION 

The questions we have been asked most frequently as the fact 
of our investigation of the spider became known were these: 1. Are 
the spiders increasing greatly in numbers? 2. Is the spider changing 

114728—39 28 



420 ANNUAL. REPOBT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

its habits, that is, is it leaving its rural haunts and invading settled 
communities to a greater degree than before? 3. What methods of 
eradication are feasible? 4. Does the spider represent a real menace? 
5. Is there any effective antidote? 6. What are the possibilities of 
antivenin? To the first question the authors do not hesitate to give 
an affirmative answer. This may appear unjustified since this is 
admittedly the first year in which we have collected the spider. If 
the black widow were smaller, if its appearance were not so striking, 
if it were easily confused with some other form, or if it had previously 
been fairly common, one might hesitate to commit himself. How- 
ever, as an example, we have a cold box set just outside the labora- 
tory, on the ground level, and opening into the room by means of a 
window. So far, we have on two different occasions found three 
spiders at one time and another time two spiders, in webs close to 
the window. They are visible all the way across the room. When 
opening the window, one must be blind not to see them. This box 
has been there for years. We feel morally certain that had spiders 
ever been in the same location before we would have noticed them. 

It is, of course, true that one sees what one looks for, and the 
newspaper publicity which these spiders have received has caused 
many more of them to be noticed and reported than would otherwise 
have been the case. On the other hand, farmers and fruit growers 
are usually quite observant as to the kind of insects found on their 
crops and when this year, for the first time, reports are received 
that tomato growers find the spiders so bad that protective clothing 
must be worn, when grape growers report that in some places the 
spiders are so numerous that the pickers refuse to work and the 
grapes are rotting upon the vines, and peach growers notice many of 
them in their orchards, the conclusion seems inescapable that they 
are more numerous this year than ever before. 

The second question, relating to an apparent change in the habits 
of the spider, in that it seems to be invading settled communities to 
a greater degree, is to some extent dependent upon the first. If the 
spiders in a given region increase greatly in numbers, their manner of 
dispersal by wind and their utilization of such means of transporta- 
tion as box cars would make it inevitable that some would find them- 
selves within towns and cities. Once having become estabUshed, 
their chances for survival and increase are favored. Many of them 
have been found in basements, garages and similar places where they 
are protected against the cold to a much greater degree than would 
be the case out in the open. We believe that the increase in num- 
bers noted during the past summer is due to the mild winter which 
preceded it; however, cold will not operate as a check upon those 
which have established themselves in the garages and basements of 
heated buildings. The conclusion appears inescapable that, unless 



BLACK WIDOW SPIDER — D' AMOUR ET AL. 421 

drastic methods of eradication are employed, we will have a con- 
siderable, and probably an increasing number of these imwelcome 
guests. 

This leads to the problem of eradication. We have tested, under 
laboratory conditions, several of the more common insecticides. The 
general conclusion was that such insecticides as Flit and Black Flag, 
in concentrations sufficient to kill promptly all flies within the room, 
is without effect upon spiders, as would be expected from the difference 
in the anatomy of the respiratory organs. Sulphur dioxide, in high 
concentration, will kiU them in time, as will carbon disulphide, though 
relatively high concentrations and long exposures are necessary. 
Often the spider appears to be dead and remains so for hours but 
eventually recovers. Hydrogen cyanide, in the form of cyanogas, is 
effective, but too dangerous to recommend for general use. The 
California State Department of Health recommends the use of 
creosote and crude oil sprays, which would no doubt be effective in 
certain locations, but are obviously unavailable in vineyards or 
tomato beds. The spider is far from gregarious in its habits and 
consequently a given basement or garage will not harbor more than 
perhaps a half dozen. Our suggestion, when called upon for advice, 
has been to locate the individual spider, easiest done at night, and 
destroy it, rather than resort to general fumigation. This advice is 
valueless for the aforementioned farmer or fruit grower; protective 
clothing during the picking season and burning of debris afterward is 
about all that can be suggested. 

Does the spider represent a real menace? We have emphasized 
throughout, in our dealings with the press and public, the fact that 
the spider is above all extremely timid. We have rarely seen a spider, 
disturbed in her web, who made any pretense of defense, to say noth- 
ing of attacking. They will almost invariably run and hide and re- 
main out of sight in a crevice or hole for hours afterward. The 
danger lies in accidentally squeezing one when picking up some object 
to which the spider is clinging, when putting on old clothing left 
hanging in a shed, or in some similar way. Some children enjoy 
catching and playing with crawling things, which cannot be done 
with impunity with the black widow. As to the bite itself, there can 
be no question of its frequently serious, sometimes fatal, effects. 
The statement sometimes heard, even from zoologists who should 
know better, that the bite of a black widow is no more dangerous than 
that of a mosquito, must, in view of extensive clinical experience, be 
branded as false and dangerous. 

There is, at present, no effective antidote. First-aid treatment 
might well comprise the application of a tourniquet, free incision and 
the sucking out of the venom either by means of the mouth or some 
mechanical device. However, as Bogen has emphasized, the spider 



422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

usually lives in filthy surroundings and the danger of infection is con- 
sequently great. Thorough sterilization of the site of the wound 
should therefore precede incision. Further treatment is best carried 
out in a hospital; it consists mainly of measures taken to alleviate 
pain, the free use of morphine, hot baths, etc. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Baerg, W. J. 

1922. The effects of the bite of Latrodectus mactans. Journ. Parasitol., vol. 
9, p. 161. 
Blair, Alan. 

1934. Spider poisoning. Arch. Internal Medicine, vol. 54, p. 831. 
BOGEN, Emil. 

1932. Poisonous spider bites. Ann. Internal Medicine, vol. 6, p. 375. 
Burt, Chas. E. 

1935. A review of the biology and distribution of the hourglass spider- 

Journ. Kansas Ent. Soc, vol. 8, No. 4, p. 117. 
Coward, K. H., and Burn, J. H. 

1927. Errors in biologic assays. Journ. Physiol., vol. 63, p. 270, 
D' Amour, F. E., and Gustavson, R. G. 

1930. A critical study of the assay of female sex hormone preparations. 
Journ. Pharmacol, and Experimental Therapeutics, vol. 40, No. 4, 
p. 473. 
Irving, William G., and Hinman, E. Harold. 

1935. Science, vol. 82, No. 2130, p. 395. 
Lawson, P. B. 

1933. Notes on the life history of the hourglass spider. Ann. Ent. Soc 

Amer., vol. 26, No. 4, p. 568. 
Levy, R. 

1916. Contribution h I'etude des toxines chez les araignees. Paris Ann 
Sci. Nat. Zool., ser. 10, p. 161. 
Philip, Cornelius B.: 

1935. Arachnidism, black widow spider poisoning. Northwest Medicine, 
vol. 34, p. 52. 
Szu, C, and Wu, H. 

1934. Fractional precipitation of serum protein with methyl alcohol. 

Chinese Journ. Physiol., vol. 8, p. 97. 
Trevan, J. W. 

1927. Error of determination of toxicity. Proc. Roy. Soc, ser. B, vol. 

101, p. 483. 
Troise, E. 

1928. S^rum actif contre le venin de I'araignde Latrodectus mactans C. R.. 

Soc. Biol., vol. 99, p. 1434. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — D'Amour, Becker, and Van Riper 



Plate 2 




Four stages in the Development of the Female. 

About two-molt intervals. The largest is about two molts ren oved from maturity, the smallest is the spider 

as it emerges from the egg sac. X 6. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — D'Amour, Becker, and Van Riper 



Plate 3 




1. Black Widow in Characteristic Position Guarding Her Egg Sac. 




2. The Emergence of the Young Spiders From the Egg Sac. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — D'Amour, Becker, and Van Riper 



Plate 5 




^ .^, 







Por-t/'ooi o-i' a cr»ss 5«c^''*ii of O. po'isori alamd.^ 



1 . Portion of a Cross Section of a Poison Gland. 



ptdi yalp 




—-■ huscil Sfiffridnf o-f- the. 
i-irsrf /so 



eUic 



Fron-I- yi'euj of- the ^ead K 3o 



2. Diagrammatic, Anterior View of head. Showing Chelicerae and Fangs 

of Mature Female. 



II 



II 



II 



THE LANGUAGE OF BEES 



By Prof. K. von Frisch 
The University of Munich 



To understand the language of bees it is first necessary to know 
something about the senses of bees. The senses of bees are of 
special interest for biologists, because bees are flower-visiting insects. 
Since the time of the German naturalist Cbr. K. Sprengel, more than 
140 years ago, we distinguish two main types of flower in the higher 
plants. A great many plants have small, scarcely visible blossoms 
without any scent, and their pollination is effected by the wind. 
Such blossoms have plenty of pollen, which is spread by the wind and 
comes by chance to other blossoms of the same species. The other 
plants have conspicuous, brightly colored blossoms, or a striking 
scent, or both colors and scent. We call them flowers. Such flowers 
produce honey, and they are therefore visited by feeding insects, 
which effect the pollination quickly and surely by flying from one 
flower to the next one of the kind. It seems probable that the flowers 
have their color and scent to make them more striking for the visitors. 
In this way, the insects can more easily find them and get their food, 
and the pollination of the flowers is guaranteed. 

Sprengel's view was not accepted by aU naturalists. There was a 
controversy on this subject for many years, especially concerning the 
function of the colors of flowers. Even 25 years ago Professor Hess 
asserted that bees and all other insects are color-blind. If this is true, 
the colors of flowers cannot be of the biological significance that 
Sprengel thought. I tried, therefore, to find out whether bees can 
distinguish colors. 

The honey bee is a social insect. It lives in a beehive. In such a 
hive there are about 70,000 bees, only one of which is a fully developed 
female, the queen, the only egg-laying insect of all the inhabitants of 
a beehive. The males are plumper, and very stupid and lazy. Most 
of the inhabitants are worker bees. They are not able to produce 
eggs under normal circumstances. But they do all the work in the 
hive, they feed the larvae, they build the wax combs, they are the 
charwomen in the hive, and only the worker bees fly out to get honey 
and pollen as food for the inhabitants. 

« Lecture delivered at University College, London, Marcb 1937. Reprinted by permission from Science 
Progress, vol. 32, No. 125, July 1937. 

423 



424 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

Such food-collecting worker bees we take for our experiment. 
We use the scent of a little honey to attract some bees to our experi- 
mental table, and feed them, for instance on a blue cardboard. 
They suck up the food and, after homing, give it to other bees in 
the hive. Then they return to the good feeding-place they have 
discovered. We let them do so a while, and then we take away 
the blue cardboard with honey and put a new clean blue cardboard 
on the left, and a red one on the right of the feeding-place hitherto 
existing. Should the bees remember that they found the food on 
a blue cardboard, and should they be able to distinguish between 
blue and red, they would fly to the blue color. That is exactly what 
happens. 

This is an old experiment, already carried out by the English 
naturalist John Lubbock. It proves that bees can distinguish colors. 
But it does not prove that bees have color-sense. It is not the same 
thing. There are (very rarely) totally color-blind men. They see all 
things in much the same manner as we see them in an ordinary photo- 
graph. They can distinguish between red and blue, for red is very 
dark to them and blue much lighter. From our experiment we can- 
not conclude whether the bees have distinguished red and blue by the 
colors or by the shades, as a color-blind man does. 

For a color-blind human eye every color is a gray of a distinct degree 
of brightness. What the brightness may bo for the eye of a color- 
blind insect we do not know. We therefore make the following 
arrangement. 

We place a blue cardboard on a table and beside it and around it 
gray cardboards of all shades from white to black. On each card 
there is a little watch-glass, but only the glass dish on the blue card- 
board contains food (sugar water). In this way we train the bees to 
the color blue. Bees have a very good memory for place. We there- 
fore change the respective positions of the cards very often. But the 
food is always placed on the blue cardboard, and the color therefore 
indicates invariably where the food is to be found. 

After some hours or after some days we can make the decisive 
experiment. The cardboards and glass dishes soiled by the bees are 
taken away. We put on the table a new, clean series of differently 
shaded gray cardboards, and anywhere between them we put a clean 
blue cardboard with an empty glass dish. The bees remember the 
blue color and alight only on the blue cardboard. They distinguish 
it without hesitation from all degrees of gray. They therefore have 
a color sense. 

Training to orange, yellow, green, violet, or purple gives the same 
good results. But bees trained to scarlet red alight not only on the 
red paper but in the same manner on black and all dark papers in our 
arrangement. Red and dark are the same for bees' eyes. Bees are 



THE LANGUAGE OF BEES — ^VON FRISCH 425 

red-blind. That is very interesting. We understand why scarlet red 
bee-blossoms are so rarely found. There are very many red flowers in 
America, for instance, but only in bird-blossoms. Birds' eyes are very 
sensitive to red. In Europe there are some plants with red flowers, 
but their poUination is — with few exceptions — effected by certain 
butterflies. These butterflies are the only insects which are not red- 
blind. There is an exception to the rule — the poppy, the flowers of 
which are visited by bees although they are scarlet red. But these 
flowers reflect many ultraviolet rays. Bees are able to perceive ultra- 
violet rays. Ultraviolet is a special color for them, distinguishable 
from blue and all other colors. It is evident that the colors of flowers 
have been developed as an adaptation to the color-sense of their 
visitors. 

One more thing is of interest to biologists. We make the follow- 
ing experiment. We train bees to blue, and then we put all the 
different-colored cardboards on the table. The bees seek the blue 
color, but are unable to find it with certainty; they confuse it with 
violet and purple. Bees trained to yellow confuse the yellow with 
orange and green. It is important to notice that they cannot dis- 
tinguish as many color shades as we can. 

Bees restrict their visits to certain flowers. A given individual on 
its trip always visits definite species of flowers. That is of advantage 
for the bees, which on all flowers of the same land meet with the same 
mechanism of blossom and save time through being acquainted with it; 
it is also of advantage for flowers, for their pollination depends on bees 
coming from other flowers of the same species. If the bees specialize 
in certain flowers, they must be able to distinguish the different kinds 
of flowers. Biologists formerly thought that it was the difference of 
color shade which enabled bees to distinguish them. Now we hear 
that bees cannot distinguish so many different shades of color as we 
can. They must, therefore, have other means of distinguishing the 
different kinds of flowers. It might possibly be the scent of flowers. 
Such considerations led me to my work about the sense of smell in bees 

The result was that we found that the scent of flowers is the most 
important factor that enables bees to recognize the different flowers. 
We can train bees to scent just as we trained them to color. On a 
table we place some cardboard boxes, each of which can be opened from 
above. There is a hole in the front of the box. In only one of the 
cardboard boxes is there a feeding-glass, and into the same box we drop 
a little essential oil. The other boxes are without scent and without 
food. We change the position of the food box frequently in order to 
avoid a training to place. The scent guides the bees to the food. 
After some hours we put away aU the boxes soiled by the visiting bees, 
and make a new arrangement with boxes not yet touched by bees. In 
one of them, we drop a little of the scent we have adopted for training 



426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

purposes, but there is no food in it. The bees fly to the boxes, smelHng 
around the holes, but they only enter the scent box. It is therefore 
clear that they can smell this scent, and that they use it as a guide to 
the food place. 

The sense of taste is a very closely allied sense. It is also a chemical 
sense. But for taste it is necessary that the mouth parts should come 
in contact with a solution. If it is a sweet solution, the bees suck it up. 
Indeed, the bees are rather fastidious about sweetness. If it is a solu- 
tion containing 20 percent saccharose, they suck it up. If it contains 
10 percent we can see that in bees as in men there is an individual 
difference in taste. Some bees drink, others hesitate, and others refuse 
it. If it contains 5 percent, they taste it and refuse to accept it. In 
this connection it is interesting that nectar in bee-blossoms is always a 
solution with a high content of sugar; on an average nectar contains 
about 40 percent sugar. 

Training to taste is impossible. Either they drink the solution, 
or they refuse it. Nevertheless, it is possible to find out something 
about the quality of their sense of taste. But I cannot explain 
the methods in a few words. Let me only say that bees can dis- 
tinguish the same qualities as we can — sweet, bitter, sour, salty. 
But not all substances we consider sweet are sweet for bees. Many 
sugars very sweet for us are tasteless to bees, e. g., lactose, cellobiose, 
raffinose, etc. And the artificial sugars saccharin and dulcin are 
not sweet but are tasteless to bees. 

It is much easier to find out more facts about the quality of 
the sense of smell in bees, because we can train to a certain scent. 
Thus, for example, we provide all the boxes with different scents. 
The bees trained to a certain scent are able to pick out the training 
scent from 30 to 40 different scents. Furthermore, we can dilute 
the training scent more and more, and the result is that for the 
sense of smell in bees the limit is quite the same as for human beings. 
The scent of most flowers, therefore, cannot attract from a great 
distance. The color of flowers has the advantage of attracting bees 
from a greater distance. Scent has the advantage of being perfectly 
distinct for each species of flower. And so the scent permits the 
definite recognition of flowers from nearby. 

In earher times biologists thought that the function of the scent 
of flowers was to attract insects and to enable them to find the 
flowers. I think this is true of such bees as fly out to seek new 
feeding-places; for scout bees. Another function of scent is to enable 
the collecting bees to recognize certain flowers to which they are 
true and to distinguish them from other kinds of flowers. But 
there is one more function of scent — perhaps the most important. 
To explain it I must speak about the language of bees. 



THE LANGUAGE OF BEES — VON FRISCH 427 

They have something Uke a language. That is clear from the 
following observation: When I want some bees for experiments, I 
place some sheets of paper smeared with honey on the experiment- 
table in the open air. Then I have to wait many hours, many days 
even, until finally a bee discovers the feeding-place. But as soon 
as one bee has found the honey, very many will appear, perhaps 
several hundred, within a short time. They all come from the same 
hive as the first discoverer. The latter must have announced its 
discovery at home. How is that possible? How could it com- 
municate its discovery? 

To clear up the matter two conditions must be fulfilled: First, a 
hive allowing one to watch all events taking place on the wax combs 
in the interior of the hive. For this I constructed observation hives 
in which the wax combs are not arranged one behind the other, but 
one beside the other, all together forming a large wax comb, the 
surface of which can be observed through glass windows. Second, 
every experimental bee must be numbered to enable it to be recog- 
nized personally at first sight in the mass of other bees on the wax 
combs. I succeeded in painting them with colored spots in five 
different colors. A white spot on the fore part of the thorax is num- 
ber 1, a red spot 2, orange 3, yellow 4, green 5. A white spot on the 
hind part of the thorax is number 6, red 7, orange 8, yellow 9, green 
zero. Now it is possible to write two-figure numbers. The hun- 
dreds we paint on the abdomen. Thus we can number them up to 
599. The colored numbers can be read as easily as written ones, and 
can be recognized when the bee is in flight, so that at our feeding- 
place we can see from a considerable distance — here comes No. 
17, etc. 

Now, a bee which has discovered the feeding-place is marked with 
color and observed after homing in the observation hive. First, it 
delivers the honey or sugar water, found and sucked up on our table, 
to other bees in the hive. Then it begins to dance. On the same 
spot it turns round and round in a circle with quick, tripping little 
steps, once to the right, once to the left, very vigorously, often half a 
minute or a full minute on the same spot. The dance is then often 
repeated on another spot. It is not possible to give a good description 
in mere words. The dance finishes just as suddenly as it began, the 
bee hurries to the hole of the hive and returns to the feeding-place. 

The bees on the wax comb around the dancing bee become greatly 
excited by the dance, they trip behind the dancer, following all its 
turning movements. They turn their heads to it and keep their 
feelers as closely as possible to its body, and it is evident that they 
are highly interested. Suddenly one of the following bees and then 
another turns away, cleans its wings and antennae, and leaves the 
hive. Soon afterward these new bees appear at the food place. 



428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

After homing, they dance also and the more bees there are dancing in 
the hive the more appear at the feeding-place. It is clear that the 
existence of the food is communicated by the dance in the hive. But 
it is not clear how the bees which have been communicated with can 
find the feeding-place. How can they know where it is, and where 
they have to fly? 

The simplest assumption would be that when the discoverer returns 
to the feeding-place the new bees fly behind it. But that is not the 
case. The new bees do not fly behind our marked discoverer; they 
appear at the feeding-place quite independently. 

I could not understand it till I made the following experiment: 
I fed some of the numbered bees of the observation hive at a feeding- 
place 40 feet to the west of the hive. In the meadow round the 
hive to the north, south, west, and east I put glass dishes with sugar 
water and a little honey on the ground. If the dancer bee dancing 
in the hive reported where the feeding-place was, the new bees would 
all fly to the west feeding-place. As a matter of fact, a few minutes 
after the commencement of the dance new bees appeared at the same 
time at all the little dishes to the north and south, to the west and 
east. They did not know where the food was. They flew out in all 
directions and looked for it. When there were no dances in the hive, 
the little glass dishes in the meadow were not visited by any bee for 
many days. As soon as there were dances in the hive, the dishes in 
the neighborhood were all found within the shortest time. 

But not only in the neighborhood! In further experiments I left 
the feeding-dish, visited by some numbered bees, at a short distance 
from the hive. And I put some other dishes farther and farther 
away in the meadow, observing whether they would be found or not. 
The farther they were the longer time it took till they were found by 
the bees sent out by the dancer. In the last experiment they were 
found after 4 hours in a meadow a full Idlometer from the hive, with 
hills and woods lying between them. It is clear from a long series of 
experiments that after the commencement of the dances the bees first 
seek in the neighborhood, and then go farther away, and finally search 
the whole flying district. 

So the language of bees seemed to be very simple. But feeding 
from glass dishes is not natural for bees. If we make the conditions 
more natural, we get a new riddle at once. 

We put the glass dish away, and feed the numbered bees at the 
same place on flowers, e. g., on cyclamen. Into the flowers we drop 
sugar water to provide plenty of food. The collecting bees dance 
after homing. New bees fly out seeking — but seeking something 
definite. In the vicinity we put a larger dish with cyclamen on the 
ground, and a similar dish with phlox. The new bees are only 



THE LANGUAGE OF BEES — VON ERISCH 429 

interested in cyclamen. They take no notice of phlox. Now we 
change the flowers at the feeding-place and put food in phlox blos- 
soms. After 5 or 10 minutes the situation at the observation place 
changes, the new bees now are not interested in cyclamen, they only 
alight on phlox and search through the flowers, examining them as if 
they were convinced there must be food there. Everywhere in 
neighboring gardens where phlox plants are we can observe questing 
bees — a curious sight for everybody aware that bees cannot get 
honey from phlox blossoms and therefore never visit phlox under 
normal circumstances. The dancer bee has not only reported that 
there is food, but also in what kind of flowers it is to be found. 

In performing this experiment I succeeded with all kinds of flowers 
with the exception of flowers without any scent. And so it is not 
difficult to find out the manner of commimication. When the 
collecting bee alights on the scented flowers to suck up the food, the 
scent of the flower is taken up by its body-surface and hairs, and when 
it dances after homing the interested bees following the movements 
of the dancer bee, and holding their antennae against its body, per- 
ceive the specific scent on its body and know what kind of scent must 
be sought to find the good feeding-place announced by the dancing 
bee. That this view is correct can be proved easily. We feed some 
numbered bees, giving them sugar water in a glass dish, on a card- 
board on which some essential oil has been dropped. Then, in the 
neighborhood on the ground, we put some cardboards with drops of 
various essential oils on them. The bees sent out by our dancer bees 
are only interested in the scent of the essential oil dropped on the 
feeding-cardboard, and alight on every place and everything provided 
with this scent. They take no notice of cardboards provided with 
other essential oils. 

It is thus seen that there is a biological function of flower scent not 
known before. The dancing bee can communicate a message about 
all kinds of scented flowers by means of the scent adhering to its body. 

But the language of bees is still more perfect than has been shown 
up to now. A little variation of our experiment makes this clear. 
At the feeding-place we put sugar water in the glass dish, and we 
renew all sugar water taken away by the collecting bees. There is 
plenty of food. The collecting bees dance after homing, and new 
bees continually come out, and more and more discover the feeding- 
place. Now we remove the full glass dish and we put in its place a 
glass dish provided with some sheets of filter paper moistened from 
beneath with a little sugar water by means of a syringe. Now there is 
a scarcity of food. It is troublesome to suck it up, and takes a long 
time. Now the bees do not dance after homing. They deliver the 
food to other bees and return to the feeding-place, they continue to 
coUect the food no less industriously, but they do not dance, and so 



430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

they do not attract new worker bees to their feedmg-place. Just the 
same is true of flower-visiting bees. They only dance if they find 
plenty of food. As soon as the flowers are visited by so many bees 
that all nectar produced by the flowers can be easily collected and 
taken away, there is no longer plenty of food, the dances stop, and no 
more worker bees are attracted. This makes it possible that there is 
always a correct proportion between the number of collecting bees 
and the quantity of food offered by a certain kind of flowers. 

But one more thing still — the dances depend not only on the 
quantity of food but also on its sweetness. If we feed the bees with 
sugar water of a very high concentration the dances are very vigorous. 
If the concentration is diminished, the dances are continued, but less 
vigorously. If the concentration is still further diminished to a 
certain point, the collection of food is still continued, but there are no 
dances in the hive, although there is plenty of food. In natural 
conditions this is very important. For when various kinds of flowers 
with different concentrations of nectar begin to bloom at the same 
time, and are discovered by scout bees belonging to the same hive, 
the bees discovering the flowers with the best nectar dance most 
vigorously, and attract the largest number of worker bees for the best 
flowers. That is the role of the sense of taste in the language of bees. 

But there is a word in the bee language not yet mentioned. The 
bees have a scent organ on their abdomen located in a pocket of skin 
containing glands. Usually the scent organ is closed and cannot give 
out scent. But bees which have discovered a good feeding-place put 
out the scent organ on returning to the place, and thus they give out 
a scent that is very attractive to other bees. It can be concluded 
from special experiments that the scent of this scent organ is much 
more intensive for bees than for us. It tells the questing bees with 
special emphasis where the good place is, as soon as they are in the 
vicinity, and attracts them from quite a considerable distance. 

It may be that some of my statements seem to be a little hypo- 
thetical. But all the results I have mentioned have been obtained 
from long series of experiments. To deal more thoroughly with the 
experimental methods here is impossible. 

To sum up: If a new kind of flower begins to bloom in a certain 
region, it is discovered after some time by scout bees. The first 
bees find the flowers full of nectar. They find plenty of food and 
after homing they report the discovery by dancing, and in addition 
indicate the species of flowers by means of the scent adhering to 
their bodies. The bees communicated with fly out and look for the 
flowers with this specific scent. Flying out in all directions, they find 
out in the shortest time the plant which has commenced to bloom, 
wherever it is in the entire flying district. Where there are already 
collecting bees, the scent of the scent organ makes it easier for fresh 



THE LANGUAGE OF BEES VON FRISCH 431 

questing bees to find the good feeding-place. When the number of 
bees has become sufficient to collect the amount of nectar in these 
flowers, the flowers are no longer full of nectar, the nectar becomes 
scarce, there is no more dancing and the number of bees does not 
increase. If different plants begin to bloom at the same time, the 
flowers with the sweetest nectar cause the most vigorous dancing 
and, incited by the scent adhering to the body of the dancer bee, 
the largest number of bees fly to the best feeding-plants. 



,i 



FOEEST GENETICS 



By Llotd Austin 
In Charge, Institute of Forest Genetics, Placerville, Calif. 



[With three plates] 

The widespread interest in conservation and reforestation through- 
out the nation today is focusing attention more and more upon the 
need for improved strains of forest trees. People are awakening to 
the realization that the commonly used forms of even the best species 
of existing timber trees are, in most instances, comparatively ill- 
adapted to planting under present economic conditions. 

Is it not too much to expect that the wild types of trees as found 
in nature would be ideally adapted to meet the exacting demands of 
the present day? Centuries ago the agriculturists realized the 
inadequacy of wild plants and animals and began their efforts to 
develop superior strains. Today, after an extended period of breed- 
ing and selection by innumerable individuals and organizations, 
there are available for the use of modem farmers a great many im- 
proved types of farm crops, orchard fruits, and domestic animals. 
Most of the original wild types have long been abandoned for 
economic production. 

It is little short of amazing then, that at this same period of develop- 
ment almost all reforestation activities are seriously encumbered, and 
rendered only partially effective, by the fact that they must, of 
necessity, utiUze the wild, primeval types of forest trees that have not 
been improved from those that were available when the white man 
first trod upon American soil. 

Why such a paradoxical situation? There are probably two 
fundamental causes. In the first place, so long as there was an 
abundance of virgin timber, forestry was, to a considerable extent, 
merely a matter of protecting, harvesting, and marketing nature's 
accumulation of centuries. But now that man must take an active 
part in restocking the vast areas of denuded land, timber must be 
regarded as a crop, and as such falls naturally and properly within 
the domain of the plant breeder or geneticist. Secondly, it seems 
likely that the great longevity of timber trees, and the infinite com- 



» Reprinted by permission from American Forests, vol. 43, No. 9, September 1837. 

433 



434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

plexity of the problem, have, until recently, deterred foresters and 
geneticists from giving detailed thought to the wonderful and stimulat- 
ing possibilities of specializing in this particular field of research. 

In 1924, there was no institution in the United States, and probably 
none in the entire world, devoted solely to the production of inherently 
superior rapid-growing strains of forest trees. But in 1925, tlirough 
the extraordinary vision and foresight of James G. Eddy, a lumber- 
man of Medina, Wash., the Institute of Forest Genetics was founded 
at Placerville, Calif. Mr. Eddy's knowledge of the practical aspects 
of forestry and his studies of plant-breeding achievements led him 
to the conviction that the improvement of the wild strains of timber 
trees is both necessary and feasible — a conviction that has since been 
abundantly confirmed. 

Many have thought that the genetical principles of selection and 
hybridization could be applied to forest trees, but no other American 
took steps to actually establish an institution devoted solely to that 
purpose. His never-ending enthusiasm, his stimulating counsel, and 
his personal support of the entire investigative program for the first 
8 years, have made possible the progress that has been made. 

As the research in this virgin field has progressed, and as its aims 
and purpose have gradually broadened to meet the needs of the nation, 
there has been a natural and corresponding broadening of the organi- 
zation of the Institute. In 1932 the origmal name, the Eddy Tree 
Breeding Station, was changed to the Institute of Forest Genetics, 
better to express the broad and scientific character of the investiga- 
tions being conducted. At that time the property and control were 
transferred to a national Board of Trustees of 18 prominent scientists 
and business men well qualified to guide the destinies of such an insti- 
tution. 

During 1933 and 1934 the Carnegie Institution of Washington made 
several grants to the Institute to aid in carrying forward its protracted 
research work. Shortly after this the United States Bureau of Plant 
Industry, and later the Soil Conservation Service, helped substan- 
tially in financing the investigations which have a close connection 
with the expanding program for erosion control. The United States 
Forest Service also assisted materially during this period. 

Another important and auspicious step in the organization of the 
Institute took place during the latter part of 1935. As a result of the 
efforts of the Trustees and other friends of the Institute over a period 
of several years, the plans to join this national work for public benefit 
with the research work of the United States Forest Service were made 
possible by an initial Congressional appropriation of $50,000 specifi- 
cally for the genetical work of the Institute. Although the Institute 
of Forest Genetics is now aflRliated with the California Forest Experi- 
ment Station of the Forest Service, the investigative work will retain 



FOREST GENETICS — AUSTIN 435 

its national character and scope. The Board of Trustees is being con- 
tinued as an Advisory Board. 

Placerville, CaUf., was chosen as the site for the Institute's main 
experimental station because of an unusual combination of favorable 
conditions. It lies in the center of the belt containing the finest stands 
of the principal western pine, ponderosa pine. Within the confines 
of the State of California can be found more species of pines, on which 
the Institute is specializing, than grow wild in any area of similar size 
in the world. 

Climatic conditions are naturally of fundamental importance in 
determining a suitable location for an enterprise of this character. The 
average growing season to date at the Institute is 237 days. The 
lowest temperature ever recorded is 16° Farenheit, which is comparable 
to central Florida. The location chosen is one of the few in the entire 
United States that is situated in an important forested area and that 
has a climate sufficiently mild to permit assembling large collections 
of basic tree-breedmg material from nearly all parts of the world, as is 
successfully being done at the Institute. 

Although the climate at the main experimental station itself is quite 
moderate, there is abundant opportunity, within a driving distance of 
50 miles, to obtain testing areas in the footliills and liigher reaches of 
the Sierra where minimum temperatures range from 16° above zero 
to 30° below. On the Atlantic Seaboard one would have to travel 
about a thousand miles, from central Florida to New England, to find 
an equal range in minimum temperatures. 

During the 10 years since its founding the Institute has uncovered 
many encouraging facts that indicate clearly that forest genetics is 
not only entirely feasible, but that it will yield usable results in a 
much shorter time than had been anticipated. Some of the very 
factors that are ordinarily regarded as serious obstacles to progress 
have been overcome and have been turned about so that they now serve 
as material aids to the tree breeder. For example, the long life of 
timber trees was regarded by many as a factor that made it seem likely 
that it would be at least several decades before tree breeders could 
offer to forest planters seeds of improved new types in sufficient 
quantities to bo of practical significance in reforestation. Yet a 
short-cut method has been devised that makes it possible in a relatively 
few years to isolate from among the innumerable strains of a given 
species that nature has produced through countless generations, those 
with superior germ plasm — that is, those that have the inherent charac- 
teristics most desired by present-day planters. 

The process used is known as a Progeny Test and it isolates these 
superior, most vigorous strains as individual seed-trees in the 
forest, based on well-replicated nursery and plantation tests of their 

114728—39 29 



436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

progenies. The very fact that timber trees are longer lived than 
agricultural crops is a distinct advantage, for it makes possible a 
long-continued supply of better seeds once the desirable seed-trees 
are found. Many of these superior trees that are being discovered 
as the investigations progress have been growing for 100 years or 
more, and are capable of yielding for many decades heavy seed crops 
every few years. Even a single seed crop from one of these selected 
seed-trees will often be such that enough seed can be collected to 
produce from 5,000 to 20,000 superior seedlings. This illustrates the 
untold potentialities of these new genetical methods, and the com- 
paratively short time required for them to yield results that have 
practical application to present-day reforestation. 

Results so far seem to indicate that the easily obtained wind-polli- 
nated seed is usually adequate for the various preliminary tests in 
which seed is gathered over wide areas, even though only one parent 
is thus known and controlled. However, as the investigations become 
localized m the areas that are found to contain the better trees, it 
may prove desirable to conduct some of the progeny tests with self- 
pollinated seed. Also, various tests of crossing the better individuals 
will be helpful in showing which combinations of parents will yield the 
best offspring. 

As rapidly as relatively isolated plots of native trees containing a 
number of germinally superior individuals are found, it would seem 
that in preparing them to serve as future seed supply areas, it may be 
possible to improve the average vigor of the offspring from the best 
trees still further by cutting out, not those that appear externally to 
be undesirable, but those trees that the progeny tests have shown to 
be inferior. Thus their pollen will be ehminated and henceforth 
natural cross pollination will take place largely between the hereditarily 
better types. 

The application of this progeny test method over a wide range of 
seed sources has not only pointed out some of the best individual 
seed-trees in each locality, but it has also brought to light marked 
differences in the general character of the numerous local strains. In 
one such test with ponderosa pine, the Institute compared side by 
side in a single nursery the progenies of 765 individual seed-trees 
growing in 60 counties m 12 western States and in British Columbia. 
The data gathered from this exhaustive study revealed the existence 
of numerous geographical races of this important timber species, 
each with distinct physical characteristics that will affect both the 
volume and quality of the lumber produced. One of the most signifi- 
cant and useful of the facts that these tests have revealed is that, in the 
Sierra Nevada of California, hereditary vigor has been found to be 
quite generally associated with the lower elevation of the seed source. 



FOREST GENETICS — AUSTIN 437 

Although these and other findings here reported will, obviously, 
need checking by further experimentation, enough has been learned 
to demonstrate the tremendous practical possibilities that these 
methods oflfer to whomsoever will put them into use. 

There probably will be no one best strain of any one species of pine 
for all timber-growing climates and soils where the species is to be used. 
Various superior strains will be needed, and as these are gradually 
developed and widely tested, they can be expected to exhibit some 
variation in the expression of their hereditary characters in different 
localities, depending on the local environmental conditions. Con- 
sequently, various field trials will be required to determine just which 
of the better strains are best adapted to each locality. In this way 
we will insure the maximum growth and highest quality of lumber 
possible under each set of conditions. 

From still another line of experimentation has come valuable new 
information that demonstrates the practicability of improving the 
strains of forest trees within a reasonable length of time. Many had 
thought that it would usually be necessary to wait until seedlings 
were 15 to 20 years old or more before they would flower so that 
hybridization experiments could be conducted with artificially grown 
trees. But tests in the Institute's nursery and arboretum have shown 
that many different species of conifers, particularly pines, flower at 
the early ages of 2 to 5 years. 

Astonishing as it may seem, one Chinese species of pine, Pinus 
sinensis, actually blossomed profusely in the nursery at the age of 
1 year from seed, thus causing pine breeding to approach, in some 
respects, the facility with which annual crops, such as wheat and corn, 
can be hybridized. As early as 1932 no less than 44 species of forest 
trees were flowering in the Institute's arboretum, although the first 
plantings were made only 6 years before, and many of the trees were 
considerably younger than this. Among those that flowered at this 
early date were several 2-year-old seedlings of the Japanese red pine, 
Pinus densiflora, grown from seed collected in the arboretum. Not 
many species are quite as precocious as this, but the average age of 
initial flowering for pines has been found to be so low that cross polli- 
nation experiments can be conducted with them and tree generations 
can be secured much more rapidly than had been anticipated. 

Another discovery offering much encouragement to the pine breeder 
is the great longevity of pine pollen. Simple and inexpensive methods 
have been found that will often keep this pollen viable for a year or 
more. This is in sharp contrast to the condition that exists in some 
other plants, such as corn, in which the pollen lives only about 24 
hours, and if not used within that time is of no avail. The long life 
of pine pollen makes possible its shipment from the forests of distant 



438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

countries for hybridization with native species and with others that 
may be flowering in the arboretum. 

The possibility of hybridizing forest trees, and of actually combin- 
ing in a single new hybrid form the desirable characters previously 
existing only in separate species, has been fully demonstrated in 
hybrids produced at the Institute, as well as in certain natural hybrids 
that have been discovered. The most outstanding of the Institute's 
artificial hybrids to date is a cross of the Knobcone pine, Pinus atten- 
uata, a relatively slow-growing but hardy species, and the Monterey 
pine, Pinus radiata, a species which lacks hardiness but which is the 
fastest-growing of all species tested from 40 countries. All of the 
hybrids have, very fortunately, inherited the cold-hardiness of the 
seed-parent and the rapid growth of the pollen-parent. 

As one of the results of the study of artificially controlled pollina- 
tion of pines, it has been observed in experiments with several different 
species that when the flowers of a pine tree are pollinated with pollen 
from the same tree, the yield of seed tends to be abnormally low, and 
the germination of the seeds is usually comparatively poor. In addi- 
tion, the resultant seedlings are often quite deficient in vigor, as com- 
pared with normal seedlings resulting from wind-pollination, which 
ordinarily seems to include much crossing with neighboring trees. 
These results may be taken as indications that, in all probability, 
many of the individual trees in the wilds are partially self-sterile and 
will yield vigorous offspring only when cross-pollinated with pollen 
from other trees, usually of the same species. 

Apparently pines behave much as do many of the crop plants, such 
as corn, that have been under tests by geneticists for decades. It is 
a common experience in plant breeding to find that there is a reduc- 
tion in vigor following selfing or inbreeding, particularly m the first 
generation. One application of this finding in practical forestry is to 
avoid the collection of seeds from individual trees that are compara- 
tively isolated, since such seeds are probably mostly self-pollinated. 
Also, in choosing seed-trees to be saved in logging operations, the de- 
sirable practice, judging from present knowledge, would seem to be to 
leave them in small groups; or if left singly, the seed trees should be 
left close enough together to insure adequate cross-pollination by the 
wind. 

It is well recognized that hybrids between species often will not 
come true when reproduced by seed. Consequently the Institute has 
given some attention to the possibility of reproducing pines by bud- 
ding and grafting, which are the usual commercial methods of propa- 
gating practically all orchard fruits and many ornamentals, in order 
to insure trueness to type. Though these methods of reproducing 
pines are still in the experimental stage, the preliminary tests of 



FOREST GENETICS — AUSTIN 439 

budding and grafting were quite successful, even when one species 
was budded onto another. 

The more one studies genetics, the more tliorouglily he becomes 
convinced of the widespread application of the fundamental laws of 
heredity, and the importance of giving thought today to the genera- 
tions yet to come. The universality of these considerations may be 
appreciated by observing the close similarity in the situation that has 
long existed in forestry and in human society. When war is declared, 
the best specimens of manhood are sought out and sent to the front, 
often never to return, while those that the examinations show to be 
unfit, are left at home to perpetuate the race. 

With timber trees, too, this unfortunate practice has been all too 
prevalent of using the best for present needs and leaving the discards 
with their inferior heritage for the future — a tragic policy, bringing 
about the deterioration of the strains of our forest trees through what 
might well be termed "the perpetuation of the unfit." In some ways 
it may seem only natural that many have yielded to the pecuniary 
temptation to send to the mUl all the finest and largest specimens, 
with straightest grain and the best form, leaving as seed-trees for 
natural regeneration only the misshapen, diseased, and otherwise un- 
desirable types that are not fit for lumber. In many cases the seed 
gathered for artificial reforestation has been little better, for all too 
often the collectors' chief concern has been ease of gathering, and 
hence much of the seed has come from low, scrubby or stunted trees. 

We know that not all of these poor-appearing trees have an inferior 
heredity, for those defects that are caused by environmental influ- 
ences, such as mechanical injuries, are in no respect hereditary. Yet 
on the other hand, we also know that many visible characteristics 
that are undesirable economically, such as spiral grain and suscepti- 
bility to disease, and many others, are often definitely hereditary. It 
seems obvious, then, that any system of selection in which only the 
cuUs and poorest specimens are saved for reproduction must lead 
inevitably to the deterioration of the strain. 

Another example of the unfortunate tendency to destroy the best, 
and one that is seldom appreciated, is afforded by the Institute's 
previously-mentioned discovery that the forms of ponderosa pine 
having the greatest inherent vigor seem to come from the low eleva- 
tions in the Sierra of California. In this belt, at an elevation of only 
900 feet above the sea, lies Coloma, where gold was discovered in 
1848, starting an avalanche of adventurous prospectors to California. 
With surprising rapidity, mining camps sprang up all along the foot- 
hills, and as this new western civilization developed, man unwittingly 
logged off great quantities of the easily-accessible low-altitude trees 
that we now find constitute a strain having exceptional growth capac- 
ities. This deforestation has been carried still farther by the fires that 



440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

are now so prevalent in this zone. At present there remain in this 
low-elevation belt only scattered remnants of the extensive forests 
that existed prior to the advent of the white man. This slow but 
inevitable utilization and destruction of the relatively few remaining 
low-elevation trees of superior heredity is still going on, and so it 
behooves us to test as rapidly as possible the offspring of such of these 
trees as still exist. For, while nearly all the trees of this strain seem 
to yield relatively vigorous progenies, among them may be found one 
that surpasses all others — the progenitor of a new, rapid-growing race 
of ponderosa pine that can be grown on very short rotations. 

It is because forest genetics has often been regarded as an exceed- 
ingly slow and unpromising line of scientific endeavor that I have 
purposely summarized in this article some of the Institute's results 
that point strongly in the opposite direction. It is not the intention, 
however, to give the unpression that the path of the tree breeder is 
strewn with thornless roses. His advances are always beset with 
difl&culties, only a portion of which have as yet been overcome. Never- 
theless, if we may be permitted to judge the future by the accomplish- 
ments of the past, the prospects from our present vantage point are 
very bright for bringing about, through the use of genetics, major 
advancements in American forestry. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Austin 



Plate 1 




A Tree Breeder at Work. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Austin 



Plate 2 




1. Where interesting experiments in speeding up the production and development of trees are being made — 
the arboretum of the Institute of Forest Genetics in the Sierra Nevada foothills. 




2. Three yearly nursery section panorama— right, enclosed frames for 1-year-old "Progeny Test" and 
hybridizing experiments; foreground, 2-year-old "Species Test" beds, and in the background are seen 
remnants of the results of the 3-year-old experimental nursery. 




3. Administration Building and the Institute's headquarters. 



THE STORY OF THE MAIDENHAIR TREE 



By Sir Albert C. Seward, Sc. D., F. R. S. 



INTRODUCTORY 

In March 1936 several letters were published in The Times drawing 
attention to the remarkable history of the maidenhair tree (Ginkgo 
biloba L.) and its unique position as a link between the present 
age and an almost incredibly remote past. The interest awakened 
by the correspondence suggested to me the possibility that a fuller 
account of the history, both of the maidenhair tree itself and the 
family or group of which it is the sole survivor, might be acceptable 
to readers of Science Progress, Ginkgo was selected as one of sev- 
eral examples of living plants of ancient lineage in a book first pub- 
lished in 1911 entitled "Links with the Past in the Plant World" 
and further reference was made to it in an article contributed to 
this journal in October 1935 on "Selections from the Study of Plant 
Migrations Revealed by Fossils." More recently, in an article 
published in Natiu-e (May 1, 1937) attention was called to some 
important contributions to the geological history of the Ginkgo 
family by Dr. Florin of Stockholm and Professor Harris of Reading. 
My present aim is to give a fuller account of the story of Ginkgo 
and its allies, a story founded on data collected from plant-bearing 
rocks of many ages and from widely scattered regions. Evidence 
furnished by fossils enables us to state with confidence that the 
Ginkgo group of trees — the Ginkgoales — was once almost world- 
wide in its distribution and comprised many genera and species: 
a few million years ago this section of the plant kingdom fell from 
its high estate and is now represented by a single species. An 
attempt is made in the following pages, omitting unnecessary detail 
and technicalities, to present some of the evidence. The first part 
of this article is devoted to Ginkgo biloba, and closely related trees 
of the same genus which failed to persist until the present age. In 
the second part a short account is given of other genera included in 
the Ginkgo group that have long been extinct. 

' Reprinted by permission from Science Progress, vol. 32, No. 127, January 1038. 

441 



442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

PART I 
GINKGO BILOBA 

Ginkgo, like the larch, is one of the few naked-seeded (Gymno- 
sperm) trees that is deciduous; it reaches well over a hundred feet in 
height: the branches are spreading or steeply ascending. In the 
autunan the leaves assume an attractive golden color before falling. 
In shape and venation the foliage is imhke that of any other tree; 
it is fan-shaped or triangular and varies considerably in size and 
shape. The specific name biloba was chosen because in many, though 
by no means all, leaves the blade is divided by a median V-shaped 
depression into two symmetrical halves. Leaves vary from about 1 
inch to 2 or 3 inches in depth, and from 1 to 3 inches in breadth; 
they may reach a breadth of 6 inches, but this is exceptional. The 
slender leaf-stalk is IK or as much as 2 inches long. The lower margin 
of the blade may be almost straight and at right-angles to the stalk, 
or not infrequently in small leaves the outline is triangular, the two 
sides converging to the base: occasionally the lower margin has the 
form of a double ogee curve. The upper edge is rounded, entire, ir- 
regularly undulate, or bilobed. In some leaves, especially those on 
vigorous yoimg shoots, the blade is often dissected by V-shaped de- 
pressions into four or more wedge-shaped segments. The deeply cut 
leaves with several cuneate lobes are reminiscent of the foliage of 
many extinct species. The range in size and shape of the foliage 
of the Uving species adds considerably to the difficulty of deciding 
whether or not certain fossil leaves should be regarded as specifically 
identical with Ginkgo biloha, or indeed one with another. Accurate 
comparison is impossible without the aid of supplementary evidence 
from structural features. Forked veins radiate through the leaf from 
the lower margin: the venation is very similar to that of the leaflets 
of a maidenhair fern (Adiantum). Two strands of conducting tissue 
pass from the stem up the leaf-stalk and branches from them form 
the spreading and forked veins. Here and there between the veins 
short tracts of secretory cells are easily recognizable as translucent 
patches when a leaf is seen in transmitted light, or as dark patches 
by reflected light. Similar secretory tracts are an almost constant 
character in the fossil leaves. 

The leaves are borne on two kinds of shoot: long shoots which grow 
with relative rapidity and determine the shape of the tree; also short 
and very slow-growing shoots. On long shoots the leaves are scattered 
and spirally disposed, while on the short shoots about six or fewer 
are borne as a cluster at the tip. The surface of a dwarf or short 
shoot is covered with crowded scars left by leaves of past years. 
Special attention is called to the short foliage-shoots because they 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE — SEWARD 443 

are characteristic of many extinct members of the family; they are 
similar to the dwarf shoots of larches and cedars (Cedrvs), and to the 
deciduous and smaller shoots of pines. 

Male and female reproductive organs are borne on separate trees. 
It is possible to obtain both kinds of "flower" on one tree by grafting 
a female branch on to a male tree: this operation was successfully 
performed some years ago on the large male tree at Kew. My friend, 
the Rev. Prof. A. C. Moule of Cambridge, tells me that he discovered 
a passage in an old Chinese book advising the planting of male and 
female seeds close together in order to ensure fertilization at a later 
stage. This implies an uncanny power of distinguishing male from 
female even in the seeds. The male flowers — as it is convenient to 
call the reproductive shoots — are loose catkins bearing on a slender 
axis several short stamens, each of wliich has two or rarely three or even 
four pollen-sacs. The female shoots are longer and larger, each 
usually bearmg a pair of ovules which develop into fleshy yellow seeds 
as large as cherries. In the Far East the maidenhair tree is spoken 
of as the silver apricot. Within the fleshy covering a hard shell, gen- 
erally with a prominent median keel, encloses and protects the embryo 
and the store of food prepared by parent for offspring. The kernel 
(embryo and food) is eaten in China and Japan as a delicacy: the 
outer flesh is nauseous. 

Ginkgo, despite the difference in foliage, was formerly included 
with the yew {Taxus) in the Taxineae, one of the families in another 
group of naked-seeded trees, the conifers. About 40 years ago a 
Japanese botanist, Hirase, discovered that the sperms are free- 
swimming bodies of relatively gigantic size, provided with innumer- 
able lashing ciHa in marked contrast to the passive and microscopic- 
ally minute male nuclei of conifers. In view of this fundamental 
peculiarity, and ha\'ing regard to other characters not found in coni- 
fers, a new family and a new group, the Ginl^goales, were instituted 
for this isolated, aberrant, and primitive genus of naked-seeded plants. 
Thus Ginkgo came to be regarded as the single representative not 
only of a genus and family but of a group of Gymnosperms. There 
are many interesting points connected with the structure of the seed 
and other technical questions which need not be discussed as they 
have no direct bearing on the more general considerations with which 
this article is concerned. Ginkgo resembles conifers in the main 
structural features of the wood; it is indeed very diflicult to decide 
whether or not some examples of petrified fossil wood should be 
assigned to the Ginkgo family or to the conifers. 

THE PRESENT HOME OF GINKGO 

Some botanists believe that the maidenhair tree is still living as a 
wild tree in certain Chinese forests; others are definitely of opinion 



444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

that it exists only in cultivation, the apparently wild trees being the 
offspring of parents planted by man. One thing is certain: Ginkgo 
has long been cultivated in China and Japan, and the oldest speci- 
mens occur in the neighborhood of temples, so that it has sometimes 
been regarded as a sacred tree. Seeds have doubtless been dispersed 
by natural agency, producing trees at increasing distances from the 
parents: it is therefore not always easy to distinguish cultivated from 
wild specimens. English botanists and plant collectors who have trav- 
eled extensively in China say that they failed to discover the tree in 
forests remote from civilization. On the other hand, a few years 
ago a Chinese botanist recorded the occurrence of Ginkgo biloha in 
certain localities in the Chekiang province of eastern China: he 
wrote — "This tree is very common in Tienmu-Shan growing in associ- 
ation with conifers and broad-leaved trees. It seems to grow spon- 
taneously in that region." An affirmative reply to the question, does 
Ginkgo still exist in natural forests as a wild tree? cannot be given with 
absolute certainty. It may still exist in places where man has played 
no part, and that is as much as can be said without reservation. 
There can be no doubt that China was the last, if it is not the present, 
natural home of the maidenhair tree. It was brought to Europe in the 
early part of the eighteenth century; to Utrecht about 1730, and to 
England a little later: the tree is now fairly common in European 
gardens, admired for its autumn coloring and the fernlike venation 
of the leaves. There is, however, another attribute which entitles it 
to our respect and protection: it is a remarkable and almost unique 
example of the extraordinary conservation and vitality through mil- 
lions of years of a member of the plant kingdom whose forbears were 
forest trees ages before the birth of the human race, ages before the 
existence of our familiar broad-leaved trees, and antedating almost the 
whole of the mammals. In comparison with most impressive man- 
made monuments, such as the step pyramid of Saqqara, which take 
us back to the dawn of civilization, the records of plants preserved by 
nature in the sands and muds of former ages speak to us of a past 
beyond the power of human intelligence to appreciate. After read- 
ing the following summary of the history of Ginkgo and its allies it 
will be easier to appreciate the reasonableness of describing the maid- 
enhair tree as one of the wonders of the world; it has persisted with 
little change until the present through a long succession of ages when 
the earth was inhabited by animals and plants for the most part far 
removed, in kind as in time, from their living descendants. Ginkgo 
is one of a small company of living plants which illustrates continuity 
and exceptional power of endurance in a changing world. The ginkgos 
that grew in western and eastern forests 100 and 200 million years 
ago were no doubt very similar in appearance to the species that alone 
survives; they lived the same life, depending upon the light of the 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE SEWARD 445 

sun, the carbon-giving gas in the atmosphere, and the water in the 
soil exactly as trees of the present day. When we reconstruct the 
continents over which the forests spread and restore to life the con- 
temporary companions of the old ginkgos, continuity gives place to 
discontinuity; land where there is now water and water over regions 
that are now land. As the wind spreads a kaleidoscopic pattern of 
lights and shadows over the massed branches of the tree, we cannot 
but be conscious of the contrast between the wind, that has blown 
since the earth began, and the varying nature of the old-time forests — 

'Tis the old wind in the old anger 
But then it threshed another wood. 

When we regard the earth's surface in terms of the ordinary time- 
scale it gives us an impression of stability: adopting the time-scale of 
geologists we are able to measure the duration of earlier periods ; as we 
pass from one age to another we can follow the shifting boundaries of 
continents and seas. With minds prepared by thoughts derived from 
a geological retrospect Ginkgo becomes much more to us than a mere 
tree; it speaks to us as an oracle recording in the trembling accents 
of its fluttering leaves the varying fortunes of its race and wanderings 
over the world's surface as age succeeded age; it gives us glimpses of 
the great procession of life and the building of the world in which we 
live. 

A NOTE ON THE NAME GINKGO 

The name Ginkgo was coined by Kaempfer, who traveled widely in 
the Far East, for a tree he first saw in Japan in 1690. In 1712 in his 
book Amoenitates Exoticae, he spoke of the tree as "Ginkgo vel Gin 
an, vulgo Itsjo, arbor nucifera folio Adianto," and published an excel- 
lent drawing of foliage-shoots and seeds. Linnaeus in 1771 adopted 
Kaempfer's generic name and called the plant Ginkgo biloba. In 
obedience to the rules of nomenclature governing botanical usage this 
is generally accepted. Twenty-six years later J. E. Smith proposed 
to substitute the generic name Salisburia for the "equally uncouth 
and barbarous" Ginkgo of Kaempfer; he also altered the specific name 
biloba to adiantifolia. Smith's proposal was made subsequent to the 
date accepted as the starting-point of botanical nomenclature and 
was therefore not adopted. The word Ginkgo, which The Times 
newspaper, in recent correspondence on the tree, preferred to spell 
•Gingko, has been variously interpreted. In order to ascertain its true 
meaning I consulted my friend, the Rev. Dr. A. C. Moule, professor 
of Chinese at Cambridge, who at once became interested and spared 
no pains to satisfy my curiosity. His extended researches have now 
been summarized in a paper published in T'oung Pao, vol. 33, livr. 2 
(E. J. Brill, Leiden). 



446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

The word Gin in Chinese means "silver" and Kaempfer thought 
that Ginkgo meant silver apricot. Professor Moule points out 
that there are no grounds for the termination kgo; the g cannot 
be explained and may be a slip in transcription, or Ginkgo may- 
be a misprint for Sankyo, a word found by Professor Moule in one 
of Kaempfer's MSS. in the British Museum Library; it means hill 
apricot. The list of Japanese names which Kaempfer thought he 
was reproducing contains no such name as either Ginkyo or Ginkgo. 
The latter, Professor Moule writes, "is unpronounceable and probably 
ought never to have existed." But whatever the explanation of 
"Ginkgo" may be, the Japanese actually call the tree Icho (or Itsio) 
and the fruit ginnan, and it is clear from Kaempfer's MSS. that he 
was well aware of this. For a full discussion of all the names readers 
should consult the authoritative paper on "The name Ginkgo biloba" 
in T'oung Pao (vol. 33, livr. 3). 

[I am also indebted to Professor Moule for much interesting infor- 
mation gathered from Chinese and Japanese writings and for notes 
contributed by his counsin, the Rev. G. H. Moule. A name for 
the maidenhair tree used by authors in the early Middle Ages is 
duck's foot: in the twelfth century, a Chinese poet spoke of "the 
gold of the duck's foot leaves," referring to the autumn color of 
the foliage. The Japanese believed that Ginkgo served as a protec- 
tion against fire by exuding water when scorched: the Rev. G. H. 
Moule writes that he has seen Ginkgo trees blackened by flames and 
scarcely hurt while other trees were destroyed. The same writer 
refers to the hangmg roots on stems of old Ginkgo trees in Japan 
which are said to symbolize women's breasts: he speaks of a tree 
at Sendai ^ which has been worshipped for more than a thousand 
years by women suffering from lack of milk and any sickness of the 
breasts.] 

THE PAST HISTORY OF GINKGO 

Let us first examine the nature of the evidence which enables us 
partially to reconstruct the past history of Ginkgo and other mem- 
bers of the Ginkgoalean group. Incomplete and fragmentary as 
it is, there is material enough to provide the outline of a fascinating 
story. It is fortunate that the leaves of Ginkgo can as a rule be 
recognized in a fossil state without much difficulty or danger of 
confusion with the foliage of other plants. Leaves are the chief 
source of our knowledge: seeds and other remains are rare and" 
supply little more than confirmatory evidence. Form and vena- 
tion and, whenever possible, the minute structure of the surface 
layers of leaves furnish the necessary data. A fossil leaf may agree 
very closely in shape and venation with leaves of the living plant; 

» For a photograph of the Sendai tree, see A. C. Seward, Plant life through the ages, p. 621, flg. 135 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE SEWARD 447 

but that in itself is not proof of speciiBc identity. Fortunately, 
many fossils are not mere impressions on shale and sandstone — 
ghosts without substance; they are often covered with a black or 
brown film which is all that remains of the tissues. This film repre- 
sents the altered or carbonized remains of the leaf substance: its 
surface is the resistant cuticular skin which covered the epidermal 
layer of the living leaf. The film can often be detached from the 
rock, or it may peel off naturally. By treatment with appropriate 
reagents it is rendered less opaque and becomes amenable to micro- 
scopical examination, revealing the cell-pattern of the epidermal 
layer, including the minute and vitally important stomata. The 
stomatal apparatus, which regulates gaseous exchange between the 
plant and the atmosphere, serving also as an exit for water vapor, 
has a characteristic structure of great value in distinguishing one 
genus or family from another. Focusing below the surface of the 
film one can sometimes see the remains of underlying tissue, crushed 
and contracted, and readily detect the presence of secretory cells 
still containing dark patches of the original products of secretion. 
Thus valuable evidence is obtained enabling us to compare in detail 
the surface layer and some of the deeper tissues with the correspond- 
ing structures in fresh leaves. By the use of modern methods of 
technique it has been possible to correct conclusions based solely on 
external form. Botanists concerned only with living plants natur- 
ally and very properly attach the greatest importance to reproduc- 
tive organs as criteria of relationship. The paleobotanist is in a 
much less favorable position; he hardly ever finds fossil leaves and 
flowers preserved together, and indeed flowers are seldom available; 
he has, therefore, been compelled to make the best use he can of 
leaves, and has studied them intensively. In rare instances it is 
possible to examine not only the surface layer of fossil leaves but 
the structure of all the tissues: leaves and other parts of plants 
occasionally occur as petrifactions, preserved in amazing perfection. 
Petrified leaves are abundant in the calcareous nodules of coal seams 
(Carboniferous period), but in rocks belonging to periods in which 
the Ginkgo family flourished they are exceedingly rare. One of the 
few examples of Ginkgoalean foliage preserved in this way is men- 
tioned on a later page. 

Nearly 30 years ago the writer suggested the employment of the 
generic name Ginkgoites in place of Ginkgo for fossil leaves which 
through lack of evidence cannot be regarded as generically identical 
with Ginkgo biloba. Fossil leaves closely resembling the foliage of 
the maidenhair tree may have belonged to a tree having male and 
female flowers which differed in some important respects from those 
of the surviving species. Paleobotany is not an exact science: the 
documents which the student endeavors to decipher provide only 



448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

scraps of information, and it is desirable that this lack of precision 
and paucity of evidence should be implied by the terminology which 
a paleobotanist employs. If he has sufficient evidence to justify him 
in assigning fossil leaves to the genus which includes Ginkgo biloba, 
well and good; if he has no such evidence, then he admits the lack 
of certainty by adopting the name Ginkgoites. It is, however, im- 
possible in some instances to make a satisfactory choice between the 
alternative generic names. For present purposes it is not worth 
while to discuss tiresome though unavoidable questions of nomen- 
clature: for the sake of simplicity, rather than in accordance with 
strictly scientific considerations, the generic designation Ginkgo is 
adopted in the following account of fossil leaves believed to belong 
to trees which, if now living, would either be referred to Ginkgo or to 
a separate and very closely related genus of the same family. 

FOSSIL LEAVES 

The periods of geological history with which we are concerned are 
arranged as follows: 

Recent. 

Quaternary. 

Pliocene stage. 
Miocene stage. 
Oligocene stage. 
Eocene stage. 

Cretaceous. 

Jurassic. 

Rhetic. 

Triassic. 

Permian. 

Carboniferous. 
As already stated, it is not absolutely certain, though by no means 
improbable, that the maidenhair tree still exists as a wild tree: there 
can be no doubt of its natural occurrence in Far Eastern forests 
within the limits of the Recent period. Passing to the Quaternary 
period, to a time separated from the present by many thousand years, 
there is a record of the discovery of Ginkgo leaves by the Russian 
paleobotanist, Klryshtofovich, at a locality on the Bureya River in 
northeastern Siberia (approximately 50° N. lat.): good photographs 
of the fossils have not been seen. Descending the geological scale 
the next records are from Pliocene plant beds in France and Germany. 
Well-preserved leaves were found near Frankfort on the Main very 
similar in form and venation to the leaves of Ginkgo biloba, agreeing 
also in the structure of the epidermal layer, though not identical in 
certain details. Other examples from the Pliocene stage have been 
described from the Rhone Valley, where forests formerly fringed the 



Tertiary* 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE — SEWARD 449 

shores of a large gulf occupying the site of the southern part of the 
present river's course. These fossil leaves, superficially mdistinguish- 
able from the foliage of the living tree, with many others from Tertiary 
rocks, are usually spoken of as Ginkgo adiantoides. Specimens have 
been obtained from rocks belonging to all stages of the Tertiary era, 
particularly from the earlier or Eocene strata. Some of the most 
beautifully preserved leaves are from the Island of Mull, where they 
were collected many years ago from sedimentary deposits associated 
with the horizontal sheets of basalt which give the characteristic 
terraced profile to some of the Inner Hebrides. In the early days of 
the Tertiary period, subsequent to the upheaval of the floor of the 
Cretaceous sea, volcanic forces, which had long been dormant, broke 
out into activity on a stupendous scale: through fissures In the 
earth's crust and from volcanoes sheets of lava spread over an enor- 
mous area including northeast Ireland, the Inner Hebrides, the 
Faroes, Greenland, and other arctic regions. The columnar basalts 
of the Giant's Causeway in northern Ireland and Fmgal's Cave in the 
island of Staff a belong to this Tertiary lava-field. The occasional 
occurrence of water-borne sedimentary material intercalated among 
the sheets of lava, as in the Island of Mull at Ardtun Head on the 
southwest coast, bears witness to periods of quiescence during which 
forests were able to colonize the lava-fields. Ginkgo was one of the 
forest trees. The leaves were first described by the late Mr. Starkie 
Gardner about 50 years ago, who spoke of them as indistinguishable 
from those of the living tree. Realizing that plants as old as the 
Eocene stage of the Tertiary period — a stage separated from the 
present by perhaps 80 million years — were probably not specifically 
identical with those of the present day, he referred the Mull fossils 
to the Tertiary species Ginkgo adiantoides. A recent examination of 
the epidermal cells of the Mull leaves by Dr. Florin of Stockholm 
revealed certain peculiarities which led him to rename the species 
G. gardneri. We do not know anything of the "flowers" of this 
species; but it is safe to assert that the Mull tree was very closely 
allied to G. hiioha. 

Since the discovery of fossil Ginkgo leaves in Tertiary rocks of 
northern Italy, nearly a hundred years ago, numerous specimens 
from Eocene and later rocks have been described from widely separated 
localities in arctic and temperate regions. The significant fact that 
emerges from a review of the evidence furnished by rocks of the 
Tertiary period is that species of Ginkgo, how many we do not know, 
had a far-flung geographical range: the genus was represented in 
forests from the Pacific coast of North America to Alaska and arctic 
Canada; in western and eastern Greenland as far north as latitude 
74°, where leaves have been found in Tertiary rocks of Sabine Island. 
With many other trees Ginkgo flourished in Spitsbergen, in the forests 



450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

of Siberia and as far east as the western shores of the Pacific Ocean. 
Its territory was spread over wide tracts in both the Old and the New 
World, mainly in the Northern Hemisphere. It is, however, sig- 
nificant that in 1935 Prof. E. W. Berry, of Johns Hopkins University, 
recorded the discovery of Tertiary Ginkgo leaves in Patagonia. This 
fact affords impressive proof of the enormous distance over which 
Ginkgo trees had been dispersed. Tertiary records are not all from 
rocks of the same geological age; most of them are from the Lower 
Tertiary, the Eocene stage; some from Miocene and Oligocene rocks 
and a smaller number from the uppermost, or Pliocene stage, of the 
period. As the ages of the Tertiary period passed, the geographical 
range of the genus became more restricted until, so far as we know, 
only a single species remained when the Recent period began. 

There is no clearly marked difference in the position occupied by 
the genus in the living garment of the Cretaceous earth; it was very 
abundant as far back as the older Cretaceous floras. The chief 
difference is that as we descend from the Tertiary to older periods we 
find a gradual increase in the number of other genera of the Ginkgo 
family. Confining attention for the moment to Ginkgo, it is interest- 
ing to find in rocks corresponding in age to the sediments deposited 
in the great Wealden lake of southern England, northern France, 
Belgium, and northern Germany leaves very similar in external 
characters to those of the maidenhair tree. Such have been dis- 
covered in Lower Cretaceous strata in Alaska, western Greenland, 
Franz Josef Land, northwest Germany, northern France, and else- 
where. Fossils gathered from the sedimentary beds of the still more 
ancient Jurassic period at many localities in both hemispheres demon- 
strate an almost world-wide distribution of Ginkgo. Some of the 
leaves from the Jurassic rocks near Scarborough bear a striking re- 
semblance in size, shape, and venation to the modern type of foliage 
and differ only in comparatively minor structural characters. With- 
out discussing precise correlation of plant-bearing beds within the 
long period embraced by the Jurassic system with its several subdivi- 
sions, it can be said with confidence that Ginkgo had by that time 
reached its maximum in abundance and geographical range. There 
were Ginkgo trees in Jurassic Australia, New Zealand, Afghanistan, 
Turkestan, Siberia, many parts of China, also in Japan and Korea. 
It grew in southern Russia, in Sardinia, and throughout Europe; it 
had wandered as far west as Oregon on the Pacific coast. A few 
specimens from Jurassic rocks of India have been assigned to Ginkgo, 
but these are less satisfactory as records than those from other regions. 
It is noteworthy that neither Ginkgo nor any other member of the 
family has been found in the rich Jurassic flora described some years 
ago from Grahamland, which members of the recent Grahamland 
expedition have proved to be a peninsula of the Antarctic continent 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE SEWARD 451 

and not an island as previously supposed. The flora of Grahamland 
is exceptional among floras of the Jurassic age in the lack of any 
members of the Ginkgo group. 

Many floras have been described from Greenland, southern Sweden, 
Germany, Poland, Indo-China, South Africa, and Australia as Rhetic 
in age: the rocks so called are intermediate in geological position 
between the Jurassic and the preceding Triassic period; some cor- 
respond more closely with rocks of the Lias stage at the base of the 
Jurassic; some are closer in age to the upper members of the Triassic 
system. One of the oldest leaves, which it is permissible to speak of 
as a species of Ginkgo, is from Rhetic rocks in southern Sweden: it 
agrees in the main with the modern leaves both in epidermal structure 
and in venation. Leaves apparently representing four species have 
been described from an Upper Triassic flora in South Africa; tliis is 
one of many indications of the abundance of trees having foliage 
constructed on the Ginkgo plan at a stage in the history of the earth 
when strange reptilian animals were the lords of creation. One of 
the South African species is almost identical in shape, size, and 
venation with leaves previously described from rocks of approximately 
the same age in Virginia. The leaves had a lamina partially divided 
into linear segments varying in size and reaching nearly 1 foot in 
breadth. The same species has been found in Upper Triassic rocks 
of Queensland. The exceptionally rich flora described in a series of 
remarkable papers by Professor Harris of Reading from material he 
coUected, 1926-27, in the Scoresby Sound district (slightly north of 
lat. 70° N.) on the east coast of Greenland includes at least six species 
of Ginkgo. Some of the leaves bear a close resemblance to the 
maidenhair foliage not only in shape and venation but in the occur- 
rence of secretory sacs. One of the species is peculiar in having 
leaves dissected into four lobes with toothed upper margms, a very 
unusual character. It is certain that trees with various forms of 
leaf more or less similar in plan to those of the maidenhair tree lived 
in the latter part of the Triassic period in South Africa, Argentina, 
Queensland, and the Northern Hemisphere. It is important to 
remember that the name Ginkgo has been used in the foregoing account 
for some leaves which should, strictly speaking, be assigned to Gink- 
goites. This brief and incomplete review of fossil leaves of many 
ages and from many parts of the world is sufficient to justify the 
statement that the existing species is the last of a long line of prede- 
cessors reaching back to the latter part of the Triassic period, a stage 
in geological history at least 150 million years ago. 

Having followed the story so far it is natural to ask how much 
farther into the past has the history of Ginkgo been traced? As- 
suming, as we do, that this generic type did not suddenly appear as 

114728—39 30 



452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

a novelty in the plant kingdom, where did it come from and of what 
sort were its ancestors? Such questions as these are ever present 
in the thoughts and speculations of the curious people who search 
for origins among the scanty and often illegible documents scattered 
through the rocks in the course of geological history. As we follow 
a group, a family, or a genus through the pile of sedimentary rocks 
we reach at length the earliest records, and though it may seem that 
the quest is ended, there always remains doubt and uncertainty 
whether the lack of still older fossils may be due to imperfection 
of the record. It was only in exceptional circumstances that samples 
from nature's garden were preserved in the herbaria of the rocks. 
As we pass from rocks containing the most ancient fossils that can 
be regarded with confidence as undoubted allies of the maidenhair 
tree to rocks older still, we discover fossil leaves which may or may 
not be the foliage of trees of the same lineage. Leaves from Permian 
and Carboniferous strata described under various names, Gink- 
gophyllum, Psygmophyllum, and others, though similar in form to 
those of Ginkgo, do not afford definite evidence of real affinity. The 
most promising of the Paleozoic genera is known as Saportaea, called 
after a French paleobotanist, the late Marquis of Saporta, a genus 
founded on leaves first discovered in Permian rocks of Virginia and 
more recently in central China: tliis genus may be allied to Ginkgo; 
but that is as far as one can go. The ancestral stock may be recognized 
some day in the petrified litter of the coal period forests; but as yet 
we can only guess whence the Ginkgo group came. We must for the 
present be content with the knowledge that trees of the Ginkgo type 
had risen to prominence before the close of the Triassic period and 
continued to flourish and occupy fresh territory in the course of the 
Jurassic period: they held their own in the Cretaceous period and in 
the earlier stages of the Tertiary era, but as the Quaternary age dawned 
comparatively few examples remained. 

PART II 

OTHER MEMBERS OF THE GINKGO FAMILY 

Each of the families to which botanists have assigned the higher 
plants, both Angiosperms and Gymnosperms, usually contains 
several genera differing, it may be, widely in appearance and yet 
possessing certain features in common believed to be indicative of 
close relationship. It is generally agreed that such trees as larches, 
cedars, firs, and pines are all members of one family which in the 
course of time have deviated in their several ways from some ancestral 
prototype. These genera are believed to be closely related one to 
another because they possess in common certain features, especially 
those exhibited by the fertile shoots, which suggest descent from a 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE — SEWARD 453 

single ancestral stock. In attempting to classify fossil plants on a 
basis of natural afl&nity we have in most instances to use vegetative 
characters alone; and this is the method followed in the comparison 
of leaves of extinct plants with the foliage of recent species. There 
are very few families of plants represented in present-day floras to 
which only a single genus is allotted. Ginkgo is one of the few living 
genera which has a family and indeed a whole group to itself. It 
stands alone with no near relatives: if nothing were known of its 
past history it would no doubt be regarded as an old type because of 
the possession of certain primitive traits. Search among the debris 
of forests embedded in the rocks has demonstrated that the genus was 
formerly one of several distinguished by characters indicative of com- 
munity of descent. In order to illustrate this aspect of the present 
historical enquiry it is necessary to devote a few pages to a sketch of 
the main results of paleobotanical research into the family history of 
Ginkgo, without going into technical detail. 

The first genus to be considered is one known as Baiera: this name 
(after J. J. Baier, an early eighteenth-century German writer on 
fossils and minerals) was given as long ago as 1843 to leaves found 
near Bayreuth in Rhetic or Lower Jurassic rocks. In outline the 
leaves of Baiera are fan-shaped or triangular as in Ginkgo, but the 
lamina is more deeply divided into linear segments, few or many in 
number. It is not always possible to draw a satisfactory line be- 
tween Baiera and Ginkgo from the form of the lamina alone. The 
leaves of Ginkgo biloba and those of extinct species have a fairly long 
and well-defined stalk: in those assigned to Baiera the leaf-blade 
is attached directly to the branch by a narrow, tapered base and 
lacks a leaf -stalk. In a typical Baiera leaf the blade is cut by deep 
V-shaped sinuses into narrow, linear lobes or segments, each of which 
is supplied with a few parallel and occasionally forked veins. Some 
species bore the leaves in tufts on very short shoots; in others the 
leaves were attached singly as in the long shoots of Ginkgo. It 
may be that some Baieras had both long and short shoots. In the 
structure of its epidermal cells, including the stomatal apparatus, 
Baiera is near enough to Ginkgo to be included in the same family. 
No undoubted example of Baiera has been found either in Tertiary 
rocks or in those belonging to the later stages of the Cretaceous 
period. A few species are recorded from the earlier Cretaceous beds, 
but some at least of these might more appropriately be assigned to 
Ginkgo. The genus was abundantly represented in both Jurassic 
and Rhetic floras and in many parts of the world, reaching as far 
north as lat. 70° N. in East Greenland. Some unusually large leaves 
have been described from Upper Triassic beds in North America, 
South Africa, and Australia. The oldest leaves believed to be ex- 
amples of the genus are from Permian rocks. There is no doubt 



454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

that Baiera was a companion of Ginkgo in Jurassic and Triassic forests 
and had a wide geographical range. Its reproductive organs, so far 
as we know, conformed in essentials to the Ginkgo plan. 

Another genus is Ginkgodium, characterized by leaves similar 
in venation to those of Ginkgo but narrower and rather different 
in shape: leaves of this generic type are comparatively rare; they 
were first described from Jurassic rocks in Japan nearly 50 years 
ago, and, later, recorded from Jurassic rocks in southern Russia. 
Nothing is known of the structure of Ginkgodium, and for that reason 
the genus is of secondary importance. In 1913 Dr. Hamshaw Thomas 
discovered a new type of fossil in a Jurassic plant bed in western 
Yorkshire, to which he gave the generic name Eretmophyllum. The 
leaves, 4 or 5 inches in length, are in shape like a rather narrow- 
bladed paddle, hence the name, from the Greek word eretmon=oaT or 
paddle. The lamina has several parallel veins and resin sacs; the 
structure of the superficial layer is consistent with close aflinity to 
Ginkgo. Other examples of the genus are recorded from Jurassic 
rocks in southern Russia, Afghanistan, and Sardinia. Despite the 
lack of reproductive organs it is generally believed that the leaves 
known as Ginkgodium and Eretmophyllum may be safely included in 
the Ginkgo group. 

We now come to some genera which differ more widely in form 
from those of the living maidenhair tree but are confidently accepted 
as allies that have long been extinct. The name Phoenicopsis (from 
the Greek Phoinikeios—of the date or palm tree) is applied to leaves 
comparable in shape to pieces of ribbon a few inches long and varying 
from half an inch to rather more or less in breadth; the veins are 
approximately parallel and occasionally forked. A characteristic 
feature of this and certain other genera is the occurrence of leaves 
in a crowded bunch on a very short shoot which is clasped and hidden 
by tiny overlapping scales: the scales protected the shoot when it was 
a bud and as the bud expanded they persisted at the base of the leaf 
cluster. Phoenicopsis leaves have been described under several 
specific names and from many parts of the world: Siberia, Afghanistan, 
Turkestan, China, Japan, Spitsbergen, southern Sweden, Greenland, 
numerous European localities, including Great Britain, and else- 
where. The genus was very widely spread in Jurassic floras and it 
was also a member of Rhetic and early Cretaceous floras; it probably 
existed as far back in the geological time scale as the Permian period. 
It has been possible to investigate the epidermal structure of several 
species of Phoenicopsis and the facts thus obtained confirm the opinion 
of Oswald Heer, who in 1876 was the first paleobotanist to describe 
this old type of Ginkgoalean foKage. The very short branches, each 
bearing a tuft of six or more grasslike leaves, may be compared on a 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE SEWARD 455 

small scale with the short shoots of the maidenhair tree on which a 
cluster of stalked leaves is borne at the apex. There is, however, this 
difference: in Ginkgo the short branch persists from year to year 
and bears fresh leaves each season: in Phoenico'psis the dwarf foliage- 
shoot was probably shed every autumn or after a year or two ; at all 
events, it bore only one set of leaves. Comparison may also be 
made with the dwarf shoots of pines with two, three, or five needles; 
the chief difference is that the leaves of Phoenico'psis are broader and 
flat, and the structure of the epidermal layer is of another type. 
It has been customary to assign to this genus fossil leaves having a 
certain form and venation and borne m clusters, even though the 
material does not furnish any information on microscopical charac- 
ters. Dr. Florin, of Stockholm, has recently described a number of 
leaves from Lower Cretaceous rocks associated with the basaltic 
lavas of the now treeless Franz Josef Land (lat. 80° N.) which, owing 
to their exceptional preservation, it was possible to examine in detail 
and elucidate their anatomical structure. He found that some 
leaves, though externally agreeing with Phoenicopsis, were sufficiently 
distinct in structure to be recognized as different genera.^ One of 
the new genera is Stephenophyllum, named after Cape Stephen on 
the south coast of Franz Josef Land, where the specimens were dis- 
covered. Seven narrow, straplike leaves are borne on a diminutive 
ax-is surrounded at the base of the dwarf shoot by persistent bud- 
scales. In appearance the foUage-shoot closely resembles a Phoeni- 
copsis, but distinctive anatomical features are believed to justify the 
institution of a new generic name. Another genus, Windwardia, 
named after the ship Windward, chartered by the Jackson-Harmsworth 
Expedition of 1896, whose members collected the material, bore 
dwarf, deciduous shoots, each with five or seven linear leaves about 5 
inches long, distinguished from those of other Ginkgoalean trees by 
the absence of secretory ducts and by a few other anatomical pecu- 
liarities. A third genus instituted by Florin is Culgoweria, a Scottish 
type, so called after Culgower in Sutherland, a locality from which a 
collection of Upper Jurassic plants, made by the late Dr. Marcus 
Gunn, was described by myself in 1911. Leaves that were originally 
assigned to Phoenicopsis on the ground of external resemblance have 
now been examined microscopically and found to differ in certain 
structural features from other members of the family. 

Dr. Florin's intensive study of the Franz Josef Land material 
led to the discovery of two more genera in this arctic flora, Spheno- 
baiera and Arctobaiera, both of which, as the names imply, are similar 
in the external characters of the foliage to Baiera. Arctobaiera is 
characterized by deeply divided tongue-shaped leaves borne in a 

•' A short account of Dr. Florin's admirable contribution was published in Nature, May 1, 1937. 



456 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

tuft and not singly: Sphenobaiera, a genus founded on a piece of 
leaf, is distinguished by a greater degree of lobing: both show dis- 
tinctive anatomical characters. Whether or not the Franz Josef 
Land leaves are all worthy of generic rather than specific status, it 
is clear from Dr. Florin's careful and illuminating researches that 
they furnish convincing evidence of a greater range in structural 
details within the Ginkgo alliance than was previously suspected. 
The main point is that there were several trees in the Jurassic and 
early Cretaceous forests with foliage-shoots superficially very much 
alike, but differing one from another in certain external and internal 
features; all agree more closely with Ginkgo than with any other 
living plant. It is noteworthy that Florin's genus Sphenobaiera has 
been recognized by Professor Harris as one of several members of 
the Ginkgoalean group in the Lower Jurassic-Rhetic flora of East 
Greenland. 

Reference has already been made to the amazingly rich flora 
first discovered by Dr. Hartz, of Copenhagen, in Rhetic strata at 
Scoresby Sound in East Greenland and more recently investigated 
with great thoroughness by Professor Harris, who collected a large 
amount of new material. The flora included many representatives 
of the Ginkgo family, new species of genera previously recorded 
from other regions and, in addition, a new type to which the name 
Hartzia has been given. This genus, like many of the others, bore 
its long and relatively narrow leaves in groups on dwarf shoots, 
but the lamina of each leaf had a forked tip. The stomata differ 
in arrangement and structure from those of Phoenicopsis. 

Torellia. — This generic name, after Professor Torell, a geologist, 
was given nearly 60 years ago to leaves discovered b}'^ Captain 
Feilden, a member of the Alert and Discovery arctic expedition 
(1875-76) in early Tertiary rocks in Grinnell Land (81° 46') and 
subsequently recorded from Spitsbergen. The leaves of Torellia 
may be compared with broad and stiff blades of grass 2 or 3 inches 
long, furnished with several parallel veins, tapering to a narrow 
base and rounded at the tip. In some forms the blade is sickle- 
shaped. Torellia has since been found in Cretaceous rocks of Ussuri- 
land in eastern Siberia. The genus was in existence as long ago as 
the Rhetic period in the forests of East Greenland. It is note- 
worthy that Dr. Florin, after examining the structure of Torellia 
leaves from Spitsbergen, decided to remove them to a new genus, 
Pseudotorellia, because of certain distinctive characters. 

Czekanowskia. — In 1876, Professor Heer of Zurich described some 
very narrow, almost hairhke leaves from Jurassic rocks in Siberia, 
which he named Czekanowskia, after the geologist Czekanowski, and 
referred to the Ginkgo family. Data subsequently obtained con- 
firm Heer's estimate of aflBnity. The leaves were attached to a 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE SEWARD 457 

very short, scale-covered axis and borne in a cluster, resembling 
the bunch of leaves of a five-needled pine: each leaf has two or more 
veins forked once or more. Several species of Czekanowskia are 
known from Jurassic rocks in arctic regions, Europe, and Asia. In 
epidermal characters the leaves conform more closely to the Ginkgo 
pattern than to that of any other surviving Gymnosperm. 

Nothing has been written in this article on seeds or other repro- 
ductive organs associated with Ginkgoalean leaves in widely scat- 
tered parts of the world and in rocks of many ages: this is not be- 
cause they are unimportant; they are of the greatest value to the 
paleobotanist. The reason is that it is seldom possible to connect 
together leaves and reproductive organs, owing to the fact that they 
are preserved in the sediments of estuaries and lakes as separate 
scraps which fell from the parent trees and were carried by rivers to 
their resting-place. It is, however, important to note that the re- 
mains of such reproductive organs as it has been possible to examine 
with any degree of thoroughness, furnish valuable data supplementary 
to evidence of afl&nity obtained from foUage-shoots. 

THE WORLD-WIDE WANDERING OF GINKGO AND ITS ALLIES 

A survey of the voluminous publications in which are recorded 
discoveries of fossil plants referred on good evidence to the Ginkgo 
alliance demonstrates the extraordinary vitality and resiliency of 
the genera and their success as travelers over wide spaces. It would 
extend this sketch far beyond reasonable limits were reference 
made to all the species and the places where they have been found. 
It is also impossible in a general summary to make comparison of the 
distributional areas of the several genera. The black dots on the 
map (fig. 1) indicate localities where members of the family have 
been found in rocks ranging from Triassic to the end of the Ter- 
tiary period. Though by no means a complete record, the map 
serves to illustrate the light thrown by paleobotanical data on the 
wandering of these Ginkgoalean trees never seen in life by man 
and known only as fragments preserved in the rocks. The tenacity 
with which a single member of this once vigorous group held on 
to life through the ages has enabled us to read the story of its ancestry. 

CONCLUSION 

In the foregoing pages my purpose has been to present the more 
important results of research into the history of the Ginkgo family. 
Ginkgo biloba, the maidenhair tree, is worthy of special regard as one 
of the most impressive examples in the plant kingdom of a link with 
remote ages and as the sole representative in the modern world of a 
family, which millions of years ago occupied as prominent a place in 



458 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



the vegetation of the world as that now held by the oaks and other 
familiar forest trees included in the oak family. Omitting any further 
reference to the Paleozoic fossils, mentioned on a previous page as 
possible though doubtful members of the Ginkgoalean stock, the main 
historical conclusions may be summarized as follows (see fig. 2). 

As the Triassic period drew to its close more than 150 miUion years 
ago, the surface of the earth bore little or no resemblance to that with 
which we are familiar. At that stage in geological history and during 
many million years that followed, the distribution of land and water, 
mountains, valleys, and plains, animal and plant communities, and 
climatic conditions reflected in their gradual transformation the cycles 
of physical and organic evolution. Even in the Triassic period there 
were a few plants foreshadowing more or less clearly trees that are 




Figure 1.— Map of the distribution of Ginkgo and allied genera in former periods of geological history. 
The area within which Ginkgo may still exist as a wild tree is shown by the circle below 30° N. lat. on 
the eastern edge of China. The records on which the map is based are from the Triassic to the Quaternary 
period. 

still living. Conspicuous in this small company were representatives 
of the Ginkgoalean family, notably Baiera and Ginkgo, Passing up- 
ward to the Jurassic period we find other genera added to the growing 
family, genera which established themselves over a vast extent of 
territory both north and south of the Equator. It was at this stage 
in the history of the earth that Ginkgo, Baiera, Phoenicopsis, Czeka- 
nowskia and other genera reached their greatest development as 
measured by the number of species and geographical range. As the 
Jurassic period merged into the Cretaceous, the balance of nature was 
not seriously disturbed: many genera survived the change. But the 
Ginkgoalean race had passed its zenith. There followed a much more 
drastic physical revolution when the Cretaceous sea, in which the 
material of our chalk downs was made from the calcareous skeletons of 
marine creatures, flooded vast continental areas — a revolution which 
had a far-reaching effect upon contemporary life. 



THE MAIDENHAIR TREE — SEWARD 



459 



When the floor of the Cretaceous sea had been raised into land 
and the calcareous ooze of the ocean was converted into hills of 
chalk, the plant world assumed a much more modern aspect. In 
the Tertiary floras preserved in sedimentary deposits of post Cre- 
taceous age Ginkgo was almost, though not quite, the sole survivor 
or the family; it was still a vigorous and widely dispersed tree in 



R 



T Q-R 



Bakva 

(Jinkgodium 

Evztmphillum 

Tovzllia 1 
PszudotovzHia J 
Phoenicopsis 
Czekanowskia 

Hartzioi 

StzphemphyUam 
Wixidvjardia 
Sphenobaietxi 
Arctobakra 











































1 


























18QiTiUUort;yeais 


M 


ar 


I appeared 1 miUion -years ago— — ^ 



Figure 2.— Diagram illustrating the approximate distribution in time of genera of the Ginkgoales. 
P— Q— R = Permian, Triassic, Rhetic, Jurassic, Cretaceous, Tertiary, Quaternary and Recent periods. 
The relative antiquity of the Ginkgoales and the human race is indicated by the black time scale. Accord- 
ing to the late Prof. Elliot Smith (Human History) man "must have been alive during the Pliocene stage." 
Prof. A. Holmes (The Age of the Earth) gives the date of the Triassic period as 180 million years. The 
name Ginkgo is used in a wide sense, including some species which should be assigned to Ginkgoites. It 
is important to note that the genera Stephenophyltum and others shown in the Table as Lower Cretaceous 
were founded on exceptionally well-preserved fossils from Franz Josef Land; in all probability, were 
equally good material available from other places, they would be found to have had a much greater range 
in time and in space. The diagram is not drawn to scale except that the Rhetic period, transitional 
between the Triassic and Jurassic, is shown as a shorter phase of geological history. 

American, Arctic, European, and Asiatic forests. Even as late as the 
last, or Pliocene, stage of the Tertiary period Ginkgo still lingered on in 
Europe. It is probable that the genus was unable to endure the severe 
arctic conditions which swept over an enormous area in the Old and the 
New World when the genial climate of the Tertiary age was followed 
by a glacial phase. Ginkgo lived on in the Quaternary period, the 



460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

sole relic of a race threatened with extinction. Driven hither and 
thither by adverse circumstances, this symbol of departed glory 
eventually found a refuge in the Far East. It was not until the family 
had been reduced to a few species and a single genus that man came 
into the world, and in a later stage of his development assisted nature 
by his care of one of her oldest treasures. 

Ginkgo has for centuries appealed to the imagination of the Oriental 
mind: the tree with leaves like golden ducks' feet became an object of 
veneration ; a legacy, it might be, from a golden age and as such posses- 
sing miraculous power. We, despite our more matter-of-fact western 
outlook, pay homage to the sacred tree of the East because its story, 
written in the sands of time, gives us a vision of enduring life. The 
maidenhair tree appeals to the historic soul: we see it as an emblem of 
changelessness, a heritage from worlds of an age too remote for our 
human intelligence to grasp, a tree which has in its keeping 

The secrets of the immeasurable past. 



THE WATER-CULTURE METHOD FOR GROWING PLANTS 

WITHOUT SOIL^ 



By D. R. HoAGLAND and D. I. Aknon 
California Agricultural Experiment Station 



[With seven plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

During the past few years, the popular press has given an immense 
amount of publicity to the subject of commercial or amateur growing 
of crops in "water culture;" that is, growing plants with their roots in 
a solution containing the mineral nutrients essential for plant growth. 
The solution takes the place of soil in supplying water and mineral 
nutrients to the plant. This method of growing plants is also de- 
scribed under such names as "tray agriculture," "tank farming," and 
the recently coined term, "hydroponics." Often, popular accounts of 
recent experiments on growing plants by the water-culture method 
leave the reader with the impression that a new discovery has been 
made which bids fair to revolutionize our present methods of crop 
production, and indeed promises to produce in the future far-reaching 
social dislocations by dispensing with the soU as a medium for growing 
many crops. 

Frequently, wholly unfounded claims have been made by promoters 
that a new "profession of soilless farming" has been developed which 
offers extraordinary opportunities for investment of time and funds. 
Attempts have been made to convince the public that a short course 
of training will give preparation for entering this new "profession." 
The impression has been given also that the water-culture method 
offers an easy means of raising food for household use. 

Some of the popular articles on the water-culture method of crop 
production are grossly inaccurate in fact and misleading in implica- 
tion. Widely circulated rumors, claims, and predictions about the 
water-culture production of crops often have little more to commend 
them than the author's unrestrained imagination. Erroneous and 

' This article has also been pubHshed as a circular of the California Agricultural Experiment Station. 
It was originally prepared at the request of the director of this station for the purpose of presenting an inde- 
pendent appraisal of the water -culture method in the light of recent discussion. Here printed by permission 
of the California Agricultural Experiment Station. 

461 



462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

even fantastic ideas have been conceived, betraying a lack of knowl- 
edge of elementary principles of plant physiology. For example, 
there have been statements that in the future most of the food needed 
by the occupants of a great apartment building may be grown on the 
roof, and that in large cities "skyscraper" farms may supply huge 
quantities of fresh fruit and vegetables. One Sunday supplement 
article contained an illustration showing a housewife opening a small 
closet off the kitchen and picking tomatoes from vines growing in 
water culture, with the aid of electric lights. There has even arisen 
a rumor that the restaurants of a large chain in New York City are 
growing their vegetables in basements. 

Stories of this kind have gained wide currency and have captured 
the imagination of many persons. Many factors have doubtless con- 
tributed to arousing the surprisingly wide interest in the water- 
culture method of crop production. The psychological effect of 
current discussion of the wastage of soil erosion and soil depletion 
has made the public especially receptive to new ideas relating to crop 
production. Some people have been impressed by the assumed 
social and economic significance of the water-culture method. Others, 
moved by the common delight of mankind in growing plants, even 
though the garden space is reduced to a window sill, have sought 
directions to enable them to try a novel technique of plant culture. 
The consequence of the discussion of this method has been the creation 
of a great public demand for more specific information. Should this 
newly aroused interest in plant growth lead to a greater diffusion of 
knowledge of certain general principles of plant physiology, the 
publicity regarding the water-culture method of crop production 
might in the long run have a beneficial ejffect. Growing plants in 
water culture has been considered by some popular writers as a "mar- 
vel of science." The growth of plants is indeed marvelous, but not 
more so when plants are grown in water culture than when they are 
grown in soil. 

Sometimes two entirely distinct lines of investigation at the Cali- 
fornia Agricultural Experiment Station, in which the water-culture 
technique is used, have been confused in popular discussions. One of 
these concerns methods of growing plants in water culture under 
natural light, the other the study of special scientific problems of 
plant growth in controlled chambers artificially illuminated. It is 
economically impossible at the present time to grow crops commercially 
solely under artificial illumination, even if there were any reason for 
doing so. At several other institutions considerable attention has 
been devoted to study of the eft'ect of supplementing dayhght with 
artificial light during some seasons of the year, to control the flowering 
period or to accelerate growth of certain kinds of plants (particularly 
floral plants) in greenhouses, but this practice has mainly been applied 



WATER-CULTURE IVIETHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 463 

SO far to plants developed in soil and has no essential relation to the 
water-culture method of growing plants. 

HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE WATER- 
CULTURE METHOD 

Curiously enough, the earliest recorded experiment with water 
cultures was carried out in search of a spurious "principle of vegeta- 
tion" in a day when the general ignorance of the principles of plant 
nutrition seemingly precluded the undertaking of a profitable experi- 
ment. Woodward, about 1699, grew spearmint in several kinds of 
water: rain, river, and conduit water to which he in one case added 
garden mold. He found that the greatest mcrease in the weight of 
the plant took place in the water containing the greatest admixture 
of soil. His conclusion was, "That earth, and not water, is the matter 
that constitutes vegetables." 

The real development of the technique of water culture took place 
about three-quarters of a century ago and came as a logical result of 
the crystallization of the modern concepts of plant nutrition. By 
the middle of the nineteenth century, enough of the fundamental 
facts of plant physiology had been accumulated and properly evaluated 
to enable the botanists and chemists of that period to assign correctly 
to the soil the role which it plays in the nutrition of plants. They 
realized that plants are made of chemical elements obtained from three 
sources: air, water, and soil; and that the plants grow and increase 
in size and weight by combining these elements into various plant 
substances. 

The major portion, usually about 90 percent, of the dry matter 
of most plants (water is, of course, always the main component of 
growing plants) is made up of three chemical elements: carbon, oxygen, 
and hydrogen. Carbon comes from the air, oxygen from the air and 
from water, and hydrogen from water. In addition to the three 
elements named above, plants contain other elements, such as nitrogen, 
phosphorus, potassium, and calcium, which they obtain from the 
soil. The soil, then, supplies to the plant a large number of chemical 
elements, but they constitute only a very small portion of the plant's 
composition. It was early understood, however, that various elements 
which occur in plants in comparatively small amounts are just as 
essential to their growth as those which compose the bulk of plant 
tissues. 

The publication, in 1840, of Liebig's book, The Application of 
Organic Chemistry to Agriculture and Physiology^ in which the 
above views were ably and effectively brought to the attention of 
plant physiologists and chemists of that period, served as a great 
stimulus for the undertaking of experimental work in plant nutrition. 

' Von Liebig, Justus, Chemistry in its applications to agriculture and physiology, English trans., 401 pp. 
John Wiley, New York, 1861. 



464 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



(Liebig, however, failed to understand the role of soil as a source of 
nitrogen for plants, and the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen by bacteria 
was not then known.) 

Once it was recognized that the function of the soil in the economy 
of the plant is to furnish certain chemical elements, as well as water, 
it was but natural to attempt to supply these elements and water 
independently of soil. The credit for initiating exact experimentation 
in this field belongs to the French chemist, Jean Boussignault, who 
is regarded as the founder of modern methods of 
conducting experiments in vegetation. 

Boussignault, who had begun his experiments on 
plants even before 1840, grew them in insoluble 
artificial soils: sand, quartz, and sugar charcoal, 
which he watered with solutions of known com- 
position. His results provided experimental veri- 
fication for the mineral theory of plant nutrition 
as put forward by Liebig, and were at once a demon- 
stration of the feasibility of growing plants in a 
medium other than a "natural soil." This method 
of growing plants in artificial insoluble soils was 
later improved by Salm-Horstmar (1856-60) and 
has been used since, with various technical im- 
provements, by numerous investigators throughout 
the world. In recent years, large-scale techniques 
have been devised for growing plants for experi- 
mental or commercial purposes in beds of sand or 
other inert solid material. 

After plants were successfully grown in artificial 
culture media, it was but one more step to dispense 
with any solid medium and attempt to grow plants 
in water to which the chemical elements required 
by plants were added. This was successfully 
accomplished in 1860 by Sachs and about the 
same time by Knop. To quote Sachs directly:^ 

In the year 1860, I published the results of experiments 
which demonstrated that land plants are capable of ab- 
sorbing their nutritive matters out of watery solutions, without the aid of soil, 
and that it is possible in this way not only to maintain plants alive and growing 
for a long time, as had long been known, but also to bring about a vigorous increase 
of their organic substance, and even the production of seed capable of germination. 

The original technique developed by Sachs for growing plants in 
nutrient solutions is still widely used, essentially unaltered. He ger- 
minated the seed in well-washed sawdust, until the plants reached a 
size convenient for transplanting. After carefully removing and 




Figure 1.— Water-culture 
installation employed 
by the plant physiologist 
Sachs in the middle of 
the last century. 

(Reproduced from Sachs, 
Lectures on the Physi- 
ology of Plants. Clar- 
endon Press, 1887.) 



' von Sachs, Julius. Lectures on the physiology of plants, p. 283, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1887. 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 



465 



washing the seedling, he fastened it into a perforated cork, with the 
roots dipping into the solution. The complete assembly is shown in 
figure 1, which is a reproduction of Sachs' illustration. 

Since the publication of Sachs' standard solution formula (table 1) 
for growing plants in water culture, many other formulas have been 
suggested and widely used with success by many investigators in 
different countries. Knop, who undertook water-culture experiments 
at the same time as Sachs, proposed in 1865 a nutrient solution, which 
became one of the most widely employed in studies of plant nutrition. 
Other formulas for nutrient solutions have been proposed by Tollens 
in 1882, by Schimper in 1890, by Pfeffer in 1900, by Crone in 1902, by 
Tottingham in 1914, by Shive in 1915, by Hoagland in 1920, and 
many others. 

Table 1. — Composition of nutrient solutions employed by early investigators * 



Sachs' solution (1860) 


Knop's solution (1865) 


PfefFer's solution (1900) 


Crone's solution (1902) 


Ingredient 


Grams 
per 1,000 
ccHjO 


Ingredient 


Grams 
per 1,000 
ccHjO 


Ingredient 


Grams 
per 1,000 
ccHjO 


Ingredient 


Grams 
per 1,000 
ccHaO 


KNOj 


1.00 
.50 

.50 
.50 
.25 

Trace 


Ca(N0a)j- — 
KNOi 

KHjPO* 

MgS04 

FeP04 


0.8 
.2 

.2 

.2 

Trace 


Ca(N03)2— . 
KNOs 

MgS04 

KHjP04 

KCL— 


0.8 
.2 
.2 
.2 
.2 
Small 
amount 


KNOs 

Caj(P04)3-— 

MgS04 

CaS04 

FeP04 


1 00 


Caj(P04)j-— 

MgS04 

CaS04 


.25 

.25 

.25 

25 


NaCl 


FeCls 




FeSO* 









1 These and other formulas are given in: Miller, E. C, Plant physiology, pp. 195-197, McGraw-Hill Book 
Co., New York, N. Y., 1931. For best results, these solutions should be supplemented with boron, man- 
ganese, zinc, copper, and molybdenum, as described in the text, p. 487, if distilled water is used in the prepa- 
ration of the nutrient solution. 

At the very inception of the water-culture work, investigators clearly 
recognized that there can be no one composition of a nutrient solution 
which is always superior to every other composition, but that within 
certain ranges of composition and total concentration, fairly wide 
latitude exists in the nutrient solutions suitable for plant growth. 
Thus Sachs wrote: 

I mention the quantities (of chemicals) I am accustomed to use generally in 
water cultures, with the remark, however, that a somewhat wide margin may be 
permitted with respect to the quantities of the individual salts and the con- 
centration of the whole solution — it does not matter if a little more or less of the 
one or the other salt is taken — if only the nutritive mixture is kept within certain 
limits as to quality and quantity, which are estabhshed by experience. 

Until recently, the water-culture technique was employed exclusively 
in small-scale, controlled laboratory experiments intended to elucidate 
fundamental problems of plant nutrition and general physiology. 
These experiments have led to the determination of the list of chemical 
elements essential for plant life and have thus profoundly influenced 
the practice of soil management and fertilization for purposes of crop 



466 ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

production.'* In recent years, great refinements in water-culture 
technique have made possible the discovery of several new essential 
elements, which, although required by plants in exceedingly small 
amounts, often are of definite practical importance in agricultural 
practice. The elements derived from the nutrient medium that are 
now considered to be indispensable for the growth of higher green 
plants are nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, sulphur, calcium, mag- 
nesium, iron, boron, manganese, copper, and zinc. New evidence 
suggests that molybdenum may have to be added to the list.^ Present 
indications are that further refinements of technique may lead to the 
discovery of still other elements, essential in minute quantity for 
growth. 

In addition to the list of essential elements, which is obviously of 
first importance in making artificial culture media for growing plants, 
a large amount of information has been amassed on the desirable pro- 
portions and concentrations of the essential elements, and on such 
physical and chemical properties of various culture solutions as 
acidity, alkalinity, and osmotic characteristics. A most important 
recent development in water-culture technique has been the recogni- 
tion of the importance for many plants of special aeration of the 
nutrient solution, to supplement the oxygen supply normally gaining 
access to the solution when it is in free contact with the surrounding 
atmosphere. 

The recently publicized use of the water-culture technique for com- 
mercial crop production does not rest on any newly discovered 
principles of plant nutrition other than those discussed above. It 
involves, rather, the application of a large-scale technique, developed 
on the basis of an understanding of plant nutrition gained in previous 
investigations conducted on a laboratory scale. The latter have pro- 
vided an understanding of the composition of suitable culture solu- 
tions. Furthermore, methods of controlling the concentration of 
nutrients and the degree of acidity are, except for modifications 
imposed by the large scale of operations, similar to those employed in 
small scale laboratory experiments. 

The selection of a particular type of covering for the tanks adapted 
to large-scale water-culture operations and of methods for supporting 
the plants depends on the kind of plant. For example, in growing 
potatoes by the water-culture method, provision must be made for a 
suitable bed above the level of the solution, in which tubers can 
develop. On the other hand, in growing tomatoes it is only necessary 
to provide adequate support for the aerial portion of the stem, assum- 
ing that the roots are in a favorable culture-solution medium, ade- 

' However, nutrient solutions such as are employed in water-culture experiments are not applied directly 
to soils. For discussion of fertilizer problems consult: Hoagland, D. R., Fertilizer problems and analysis 
of soils in California, Calif. Agr. Exp. Stat. Circ. 317, pp. 1-15. revised 1938. 

» Unpublished data of D. I. Arnon and P. R Stout. 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 467 

quately aerated, and with light excluded; a porous bed may be con- 
venient as a means of facilitating aeration of the solution, as a heat 
insulator, or as a support for the plant, but plays no indispensable 
role. Aside from such considerations, the choice of a covering is 
determined largely by expense and convenience, provided the materials 
used are not toxic to plants. 

With any kind of covering for the tanks, an adequate supply of air 
to the roots must be provided. While the use of a porous bed instead 
of a perforated cover facilitates aeration of roots, the bed can be dis- 
pensed with if provision is made to bubble air through the nutrient 
solutions (pi. 1). Kccent experiments have shown that even with the 
use of a porous bed, bubbling air through the solution may be advan- 
tageous or, under some conditions, indispensable. 

For approximately a quarter of a century investigations have been 
conducted at the University of California on problems of plant nutri- 
tion with the use of the water-culture technique, as one important 
method of experimentation. The objective has been to gain a better 
understanding of fundamental factors which govern plant growth, in 
order to deal more effectively with the many complex problems of soil 
and plant interrelations in the field. As illustrations of some scientific 
problems of plant nutrition which have been elucidated by the aid of 
the water-culture method of experimentation, the effects of aeration 
of the roots on plant growth are shown in plate 2, figure 1, and the 
effects of deficiencies of mineral elements required in minute quantity 
in plate 2, figure 2. 

Many workers have participated in these investigations. One of 
them, W. F. Gericke, conceived some time ago that the water-culture 
method, hitherto employed only for scientific studies, might be 
adapted to commercial use. In experiments carried on in the green- 
houses and experimental gardens of the university, he grew plants in 
water culture on a scale larger than that used in earlier investigations 
and devised a method of superimposing a porous bed over the nutrient 
solution. This development was soon given widespread publicity in 
newspapers and popular journals. The public became fascinated 
with the idea of growing plants in a medium other than soil. Many 
thousands of inquiries have come to the University of California 
requesting detailed information which would make possible the general 
application of the water-culture method by commercial concerns or by 
amateur gardeners. 

This article, based largely on experience of its authors," was pre- 
pared to make available information for which a great public demand 
had arisen. Although in view of the complexity of the problem the 

• The authors, however, disclaim any credit for suggesting the use of the water-culture method for com- 
mercial purposes. 

114728—39 31 



468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

California Agricultural Experiment Station has no recommendations 
to offer at this time for the general use of the water-culture method, it 
seems proper and necessary that those who wish to experiment with 
this method on their own responsibility should have accessible a 
popular account of the information now available from the researches 
of the Agricultural Experiment Station. 

The method of water culture is, as previously indicated, not the 
only one for growing plants without soil. Several other experiment 
stations have developed large-scale techniques of sand or gravel 
culture. These involve the periodic flooding, or subirrigation, of a 
solid medium with nutrient solutions similar to those employed in 
the water-culture method. Some investigators hold the opinion that 
the sand- or gravel-culture methods have certain advantages in 
practical use over the water-culture method, particularly in respect 
to conditions of aeration of the root system.^ 

PRINCIPLES AND APPLICATION OF THE WATER-CULTURE 

METHOD 

The purpose of this circular is to give an account of the water- 
culture method as a means of supplying mineral nutrients and water 
to plants. The absorption of nutrient salts and water are only two 
of the physiological processes of the plant. In order to evaluate the 
possibilities and limitations of any special technique for growing 
plants, one has to understand the significance of other interrelated 
processes, especially photosynthesis, respiration, transpiration, and 
reproduction. 

IMPORTANCE OF CLIMATIC REQUIREMENTS 

Many inquiries have been received on the possibility of growing 
plants in water culture in dimly lighted places, or at low temperatures, 
under conditions which would prevent growth of plants in soil. Obvi- 
ously, no nutrient solution can act as a substitute for light and suitable 
temperature. If doubt is entertained of the suitability of a particular 
location or season for the growth of any kind of plant, a preliminary 
experiment should be made by growing the plant in good garden soil. 
If the plant fails to make satisfactory development in the soil medium 

' Further information on the sand- and gravel-culture methods may be obtained from the following 
publications: 

Withrow, R. B., and Biebel, J. P., Nutrient solution methods of greenhouse crop production. Indiana 
(Purdue Univ.) Agr. Exp. Stat. Circ. 232, pp. 1-16, 1937. 

Biekart, H. M., and Connors, O. H., The greenhouse culture of carnations in sand, New Jersey Agr. 
Exp. Stat. Bull. 688, pp. 1-24, 1936. 

Shive, J. W., and Robbins, W. R., Methods of growing plants in solution and sand cultures. New Jersey 
Agr. Exp. Stat. Bull. 636, pp. 1-24, 1938. 

Eaton, Frank M., Automatically operated sand-culture equipment, Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 63, pp. 433-44, 
1936. 

Chapman, H. D., and Liebig, Oeorge F., Jr., Adaptation and use of automatically operated sand-culture 
equipment, Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 66, pp. 73-80, 1938. 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 469 

because of unfavorable light or temperature, failure may also be 
expected under water-culture conditions. Sunlight and suitable tem- 
peratures are essential for green plants, in order that they may carry 
on one of the fundamental processes of plant growth, loiown as 
photosynthesis. In this process, the element carbon, which forms so 
large a part of all organic matter, is fixed by plants from the carbon 
dioxide of the atmosphere. This reaction requires a large amount of 
energy, which is obtained from sunlight. 

Plants depend on photosynthesis for their food, that is, organic 
substances, such as carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, which provide 
them with energy and enter into the composition of plant substance. 
The mineral nutrients absorbed by roots are indispensable for plant 
growth, but they do not supply energy, and in that sense, cannot be 
regarded as "plant food." Animal life is also absolutely dependent 
on the ability of the green plant to fix the energy of sunlight. 

TEMPERATURE RELATIONS 

An earlier report of a preliminary experiment by other investigators 
suggested that under greenhouse conditions heating the nutrient 
solution would produce large increases in the yield of tomatoes.* 
Experiments that we have carried on with tomatoes in a Berkeley 
greenhouse (unheated except on a few occasions to prevent tem- 
peratures from falling below 50°-55° F.) have now given evidence 
that under the climatic conditions studied, the beneficial effects of 
heating the nutrient solution (to 70°-75° F.) are not of significance. 
If favorable air temperatures are maintained, there seems to be no 
need to heat the solution. Attempts should not be made to guard 
against frost injury or unfavorable low air temperatures merely by 
heating the nutrient solution. Proper provision should be made for 
direct heating of the greenhouse. This may be found desirable even 
when danger from low temperatures is absent, in order to control 
humidity and certain plant diseases. 

These experiments on tomatoes suggest that if greenhouse tempera- 
tures are properly controlled, the solution temperature will take care 
of itself. Certainly no expense, either in a greenhouse or outdoors, 
should be incurred for equipment for heating solutions until experi- 
mentation has shown that such heating is profitable. There is no 
one best solution temperature. The physiological effects of the 
temperature of the solution are interrelated with those of air tem- 
perature and of light conditions. 

Most amateurs who try the water-culture method will grow plants 
in warm seasons and probably will not wish to complicate their 

s Gericke, W. F., and Tavernetti, J. K., Heating of liquid culture media for tomato production, Agr. 
Eng., vol. 17, pp. 141-142, 184, 1938. 



470 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

installation by the addition of heating devices. Anyone who desires 
to test the influence of heating the culture solution should make com- 
parisons of plants grown under exactly similar conditions, except for 
the difference of temperature in the solutions. 

COMPARISONS OF YIELDS BY SOIL AND WATER CULTURE 

The impression conveyed by most of the popular discussions of the 
water-culture method is that the inherent productive capacity of a 
given surface of nutrient solution far surpasses that of an equivalent 
surface of soil, even under the best soil conditions feasible to maintain. 
Often quoted is the yield of tomato plants grown for a 12 months' 
period in a greenhouse water-culture experiment in Berkeley.* This 
yield is compared with average yields of tomatoes under ordinary field 
conditions, and the yield from the water-culture plants is computed 
to be many times greater. But closer analysis shows that erroneous 
inferences may be drawn from this comparison. Predictions con- 
cerning yields in large-scale production are of doubtful vahdity when 
based on yields obtained in small-scale experiments under laboratory 
control. In any event, there is little profit in comparing an average 
yield from unstaked tomato plants grown during a limited season 
under all types of soU and climatic conditions in the field, with yields 
from staked plants grown in the protection of a greenhouse for a full 
year. Evidence has long been available that yields of tomatoes 
grown in a greenhouse, in soil, can far exceed yields obtained in the 
field. It is true that in one series of outdoor experiments, the yields 
of tomatoes under water-culture conditions were reported to be much 
higher than under ordinary field conditions, on a unit-surface basis; 
but again, the general cultural treatment of the plants (especially 
with regard to spacing and staking) was so different that comparisons 
of yield are of very limited value. Furthermore, the equipment for 
an acre of water-culture plants would be very costly, and technical 
supervision of the cultures and the labor of staking vines would neces- 
sitate large and as yet unpredictable expenditures. 

A real test of the relative capacities of soil and water-culture media 
for crop production requires that the two types of culture be carried 
on side by side, with similar spacing of plants and with the same 
cultural treatment for plants grown in soil and water culture. The 
soil should be of suitable depth and have its nutrient supplying power 
and physical condition as favorable for plant growth as possible. 
We initiated an experiment of this kind in Berkeley late last summer, 
with the tomato as the test plant. The experiment has now been 
carried on over a full year, and several of the conclusions derived 
from it warrant emphasis. The yield of tomatoes grown by the usual 

» Qericke, W. F., Crop production without soU. Nature, vol. 141, pp. 636-540. 1938. See also the article 
cited in footnote 8, p. 469. 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 471 

tank-culture technique was larger than any heretofore reported as 
obtained by this method. The yield from the soil-grown plants, 
however, was not significantly different from that of the plants grown 
by the tank method (pi. 3). When the greenhouse yields of tomatoes 
from either soil or solution-grown plants were computed on an acre 
basis and compared with average yields of field-grown tomatoes, the 
greenhouse plants gave far greater yields. But as already suggested, 
such comparisons have no direct practical significance because of the 
differences of climatic factors, cultural practice, and length of season 
in the greenhouse and in the open field. 

In one California commercial greenhouse, the yields of tomatoes 
grown in soil were of the same magnitude as those obtained in a 
successful commercial greenhouse employing the water-culture pro- 
cedure, and in another greenhouse using soil the yields were larger. 

Kecently, data have become available on yield of potatoes grown 
in a bed of peat soil in Berkeley. This yield was as large as any 
heretofore reported as produced by the water-culture method. 

The suggestion has sometimes been advanced that plants can be 
grown more closely spaced in nutrient solutions than in soU, but no 
convincing evidence of this has been given. In our experiments, we 
were able to grow tomato plants as close together in the soil as in the 
solution (pi. 3). The density of stand giving the highest yields 
would be determined by the adequacy of the light received by the 
plants when growth is not limited by the supply of nutrients or water 
derived from either soil or nutrient solution. Closeness of spacing 
under field conditions is, of course, limited by practical considerations 
involving cost of crop production. This consideration of economic 
factors and of the adequacy of light for plant growth does not justify 
the view that the water-culture medium is better adapted than soil to 
growing several different crops simultaneously in the same bed. 

Published pictures of tomato plants grown in water culture show 
impressive height, and this growth in length of vines is frequently the 
subject of popular comment. As a matter of fact, the ability of 
tomato vines to extend is characteristic of the plant and not peculiar 
to the water-culture method. Staked plants grown for a sufficiently 
long period in a fertUe soil, under favorable light and temperature 
conditions, can also reach a great height and bear fruit at the upper 
levels (pi. 4). In commercial greenhouse practice, growers usually 
"top" the vines. Fruit developed at higher levels is likely to be of 
inferior quality, and relatively expensive to produce because of labor 
required to attach supports to the vines, and the inconvenience of 
harvesting. Furthermore, it may become profitable to discontinue 
the tomato harvest when prices become low in the summer and use 
the greenhouse space to plant another crop for the winter harvest. 



472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

There is uo magic in the growth of plants in water culture. This is 
only another way of supplying water and essential mineral elements 
to the plant. Land plants have become adapted to growing in soils 
during their evolutionary history, and it is not reasonable to expect 
some extraordinary increase in their potentialities for growth as a 
result of the substitution of an artificial medium for a soil. If no 
toxic conditions are present and a fully adequate supply of water, 
mineral salts, and oxygen is provided to the root system, either 
through an artificial nutrient solution or a soil, then in the absence 
of plant diseases and pests, the growth of a plant is limited by its 
genetic constitution and by climatic conditions. 

NUTRITIONAL QUALITY OF PLANT PRODUCT 

Modern research on vitamins and on the role in animal nutrition 
of mineral elements has justly aroused great public interest, but 
unfortunately one of the results is much popular discussion of diets 
and their influence on health which is without scientific basis. It is, 
therefore, not unexpected that claims have been advanced that food 
produced by the water-culture method is superior to that produced 
by soil. 

As part of our investigation, careful studies of chemical composition 
and general quality have been made on tomatoes of several varieties 
grown in fertile soil and in water-culture media, side by side in the 
same greenhouse, and with the same general cultural treatment. No 
significant difference has been discovered in the mineral content of 
the fruit developed on plants grown in the two media. (There is no 
scientific basis for referring to tomatoes grown in water culture as 
"mineralized.") 

Neither could any significant difference be foimd in content of 
vitamins (carotene, or provitamin A, and vitamin C). Tomatoes 
harvested from the soil and water cultures could not be consistently 
distinguished in a test of flavor and general quality.^" 

Concerning the mineral content of tomatoes, it may further be 
added, as a point of general interest, that all tomatoes contain but 
very small amounts of calcium and are not an important source of 
this mineral element in the diet. 

The similarity in composition and general quality of the tomatoes 
grown in soil and water culture in the present experiments, is explained 
by the fact that the climate and time of harvest were comparable and 
the supply of mineral nutrients adequate in both cases. Whether 
plants are grown in soil or water culture, climate and time of harvest 
are, of course, of greatest importance in influencing quality and 
composition of plant product. 

w The quality tests were conducted by Dr. Margaret Lee Maxwell, of the Division of Home Economics, 
and the carotene determinations were made by Dr. Gordon Mackinney, of the Division of Fruit Products, 
College of Agriculture. 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 473 

Claims of unusual nutritional value for food products from certain 
sources should not be accepted unless supported by results obtained 
in research institutes of high standing. 

PRESENT STATUS OF THE COMMERCIAL WATER-CULTURE METHOD 

What is the justification for considering the water-culture method 
as a means of commercial crop production? The answer to this 
question is that the method has certain possibilities in the growing 
of special high-priced crops, particularly out of season in greenhouses, 
in localities where good soil is not available, or when maintenance of 
highly favorable soil conditions is found too expensive. Soil beds in 
greenhouses often become infected with disease-producing organisms, 
or toxic substances may accumulate. Installation of adequate equip- 
ment for sterilizing soUs and operation of the equipment may require 
considerable expense. Also, in theory at least, a water-culture 
medium, when expertly supervised, should be subject to more exact 
control than a soil medium. 

Present information does not warrant a prediction as to how widely 
the water-culture method will find practical application in green- 
houses. One firm in Cahfornia has reported success with this method 
in the production of tomatoes ; another California firm which invested a 
large sum in equipment, met such serious difficulties that the equip- 
ment was not being utUized at last report. We suggest that those 
who contemplate installation of the water-culture method for com- 
mercial purposes, make a preliminary test with a few tanks of solution 
to compare the yields from soil and water-culture media, and to 
learn some of the requirements for control of the process. However, 
without some expert supervision, commercial success is unlikely. 

Indispensable to profitable crop production by the water-culture 
method is a general knowledge of plant varieties, habits of growth, 
and climatic adaptations of the plant to be produced, polUnation, and 
control of disease and insects; in other words, the same experience 
now needed for successful crop production in soils. 

The above discussion is primarily based on experiments with green- 
house crops. Conceivably in regions highly favored climatically, and 
with a good water supply available, but where soil conditions are 
adverse, some interest may arise in the possibilities of growing crops, 
outdoors, commercially, by the water-culture method. What crops, 
if any, could be grown profitably by this method would depend on the 
value of the crop in the market served, in relation to cost of production, 
which would include a large outlay for tanks and other equipment 
and materials, as well as special costs of supervision and operation. 
Thus far, no evidence is available on which to base any prediction 
as to future development of the water-culture method of crop 



474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

production under outdoor conditions. Before planning any invest- 
ment in this field, the most careful consideration should be devoted 
to the economic and technical factors concerned. It seems improbable 
in view of the present cost of a commercial water-culture installation, 
that crops grown by this method could compete with cheap field- 
grown crops. Recently, popular journals have discussed a project 
for growing vegetables in tanks of nutrient solution, on Wake Island, 
in Mid-Pacific, to supply fresh vegetables (which constitute only a small 
proportion of the total food requirements) for the inhabitants of the 
island and for passengers of the chpper airships. This, however, is a 
special case, and there is no reason to assume that it has any general 
agricultural significance. 

GROWING OF PLANTS IN WATER CULTURE BY AMATEURS 

Most numerous among the inquiries for information about the 
water-culture method are those from persons who wish to grow plants 
in this way as a hobby. These persons usually seek exact directions 
as to how to proceed to carry on water cultures. For reasons, which, 
we hope, will be made clear through reading this circular, it is not 
possible to describe a general procedure that will insure success. 
Many technical difficulties may be met: character of water, adjust- 
ment of acidity of the solution, toxic substances from tanks or beds, 
uncertainty as to time for replenishing salts in the nutrient solution, 
or for changing the solution, and the like. 

Why, it may be asked, do not most of these technical difficulties of 
the water-culture method arise when plants are grown in soil? Because 
in a naturally fertile soil, or one which can be made fertile by simple 
treatment, there occurs an automatic adjustment of many of the 
factors determining the nutrition of the plant. 

Some amateurs have recently reported results satisfactory to them- 
selves, with certain kinds of plants grown in water culture, and similar 
success can presumably be achieved by others through a fortunate 
combination of nutritional and cUmatic conditions. Yet without 
knowledge and control of the factors involved, no assurance can be 
given that success with one kind of plant at one season can be con- 
sistently repeated with other kinds of plants, or at other seasons. 
True, not every successful gardener has a thorough training in plant 
and soil science, nor can such training, by itself, always insure suc- 
cess in gardening. However, since the growing of plants in soil is 
one of the oldest occupations of mankind, the gardener can often 
obtain guidance based on a rich store of accumulated experience. 
Such experience is lacking for the growth of plants by the water- 
culture method. 

In any case, growing of plants as a hobby, in either soil or culture 
solution, without regard to cost of labor and materials, is, of course, a 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 475 

very different matter from producing crops for profit. The experi- 
ence of the amateur gardener, whether he uses soil or the water-culture 
method, is not adequate preparation for commercial crop production. 

USE OF PREPARED SALT MIXTURES 

Many amateurs have become interested in the purchase of mix- 
tures of nutrient salts ready for use, and various individuals and firms 
have offered for sale small packages of salt mixtures. Clearly a pre- 
pared salt mixture does not obviate the difficulties which may be 
met in growing plants in water culture. Recently, some firms^have 
made highly misleading claims for the salt mixtures they sell. The 
California Agricultural Experiment Station makes no recommenda- 
tion with regard to any salt mixture, and the fact that a mixture is 
registered with the CaUfornia State Department of Agriculture, as 
required by the law governing sale of fertihzers, implies no endorse- 
ment for use of the product. The directions given later will help the 
amateur to prepare his OAvn nutrient solutions. 

COMPOSITION OF NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS 

Thousands of requests have been received by the California Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station for formulas for nutrient salt solutions. 
It is often supposed that some remarkable new combination of salts 
has been devised and that the prime requisite for growing crops in 
solutions is to use this formula. Now the fact is that there is no one 
composition of a nutrient solution which is always superior to every 
other composition. Plants have marked powers of adaptation to 
different nutrient conditions. If this were not so, plants would not 
be growing in varied soils in nature. We have already emphasized 
in the historical sketch of the water-culture method that within certain 
ranges of composition and total concentration, fairly wide latitude 
exists in the preparation of nutrient solutions suitable for plant 
growth. Many varied solutions have been used successfully by 
different investigators. Even when two solutions differ significantly 
in their effects on the growth of a particular kind of plant imder a 
given climatic condition, this does not necessarily mean that the same 
relation between the solutions will hold with another kind of plant, 
or with the same kind of plant imder another climatic condition. 

Another point concerning nutrient solutions needs to be stressed. 
After plants begin to grow, the composition of the nutrient solution 
changes because the constituents are absorbed by plant roots. How 
rapidly the change occui-s depends on the rate of growth of the plants 
and the volume of solution available for each plant. Even when 
large volumes of solutions are provided, some constituents may be- 
come depleted in a comparatively short time by rapidly growing 



476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

plants. This absorption of nutrient salts causes not only a decrease 
in the total amounts of salts available, but a qualitative alteration 
as well, since not all the nutrient elements are absorbed at the same 
rates. One secondary result is that the acid-base balance (pH) of the 
solution may undergo changes which in turn may lead to precipitation 
of certain essential chemical elements (particularly iron and man- 
ganese) so that they are no longer available to the plant. Also to 
be considered are the effects of salts added with the water (discussed 
later). 

For these various reasons, the maintenance of the most favorable 
nutrient medium throughout the life of the plant involves not merely 
the selection of an appropriate solution at the time of planting, but 
also continued control, with either the addition of chemicals when 
needed or replacement of the whole solution from time to time. Proper 
control of culture solutions is best guided by chemical analyses of 
samples of the solution taken periodically and by observations of the 
crop. Further investigation will determine if successful standardized 
procedures requiring only limited control and adjustments can be 
developed for a given crop, locality, and season of the year. 

The plant physiologist, in his experiments, prepares his solutions 
with distilled water for the purpose of exact control. The commercial 
grower, or the amateur, is usually limited to the use of domestic or 
irrigation water which contains various salts, including sodium salts, 
such as sodium chloride, sodium sulphate, and sodium bicarbonate, 
as well as calcium and magnesium salts. Most waters suitable for 
irrigation or for drinking can be utilized in the water-culture method, 
but the adjustment of the reaction (pH) in the nutrient solution 
depends on the composition of the water. Some waters may contain 
so much sodium salt as to be unfit for making nutrient solutions. 
Even with a water only moderately high in salt content the salt 
may concentrate in the nutrient solution with possibly imfavorable 
effects on the plant, if large amounts of water have to be added to 
the tanks and the solutions are not changed. Also we have had ex- 
perience with a well water which was highly toxic because it contained 
too high a concentration of zinc, apparently derived largely from circu- 
lation through galvanized pipes. The water was, however, not inju- 
rious to tomato plants when used on a soil, because of the absorbing 
power of the soil for zinc. 

As already indicated, the successful growth of a crop is dependent 
on sunlight and temperature and humidity conditions, as well as on 
the supply of mineral nutrients furnished by the culture medium. 
Complex interrelations exist between climatic conditions and the 
utilization of these nutrients. The relation of nitrogen nutrition and 
climatic conditions to fruitfulness has often been stressed. In some 
localities, deficient sunshine may prevent the production of profitable 



WATEK-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 477 

o;reenhouse crops of many species in winter months no matter what 
nutrient conditions are present in the culture solution. 

NUTRIENT REQUIREMENTS OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF PLANTS 

The question is frequently asked: Does each kind of plant require 
a different kind of nutrient solution? The answer is that if proper 
measures are taken to provide an adequate supply of nutrient ele- 
ments, then many kinds of plants can be grown successfully in nutrient 
solutions of the same initial composition (the same fertile soil can 
produce high yields of many kinds of plants). 

The composition of the nutrient solution should always be con- 
sidered in relation to the total supply as well as the proportions of 
the various nutrient elements. To give a specific illustration: assume 
that several investigators prepare nutrient solutions of the same 
formula, but one uses 1 gallon of the solution for growing a certain 
number of plants, another 5 gallons of solution, and still another 50 
gallons of solution. If plants were grown to large size, each investi- 
gator would reach a different conclusion as to the adequacy of the 
nutrient solution employed, although the initial composition was the 
same in all cases. The investigator using the small volume might 
find that his plants became starved for certain nutrients, while the 
one using the larger volume experienced no such diflBculty. In fact, 
the precise initial composition of a culture solution has very little 
significance, since the composition undergoes continuous change as 
the plant grows and absorbs nutrients, and the rate and nature of this 
change depends on many factors, including total supply of nutrients. 
Adequacy of supply of nutrients involves volume of solution in rela- 
tion to the number of plants grown, stage of growth of the plant and 
rate of absorption of nutrients, and frequency of changes of solution. 

Apart from the question of adequate supply of nutrients, there are 
certain special responses of diifferent species of plants which have to 
be taken into account in the management of nutrient solutions. 
Plants vary in their tolerance to acidity and alkalinity. They also 
differ in their susceptibility to injury from excessive concentrations 
of elements like boron, manganese, copper, and zinc. Some plants 
may be especially prone to yellowing because of difficulty in absorb- 
ing enough iron or manganese. Some may succeed best in more 
dilute nutrient solution than is employed for most kinds of plants. 
Unfavorable responses by certain plants to high nitrogen supply, in 
relation to fruiting, under certain climatic conditions, may require 
consideration. 

Since the adaptation of a nutrient solution to the growth of any 
particular kind of plant depends on the supply of nutrients and on 
climatic conditions, there is no possibility of prescribing a list of 



478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Qutrient solutions, each one best for a given species of plant. Some 
general type of solution such as those described in this circular, 
should be tried first and modified later if necessary as a result of 
experimentation.*^ 

INSECT ATTACKS AND DISEASES 

Contrary to some statements, it is not true that plants grown by 
the water-culture method are thereby protected against disease 
(except strictly soil- borne diseases) or the attacks of insects. Recent 
observations suggest that diseases pecuUar to the water-culture method 
may sometimes attack plants grown in nutrient solutions. 

WATER REQUIREMENTS OF PLANTS GROWN BY THE WATER- 
CULTURE METHOD 

The use of water by plants is primarily determined by the physio- 
logical characteristics of each species of plant, extent of leaf surface, 
and atmospheric conditions, just as when plants are grown in soil. 
If a large crop is produced, either by the water-culture method or in 
soil, and if climatic conditions favor high evaporation of water from 
the plant, the amount of water used in producing the crop is neces- 
sarily large. 

In a greenhouse experiment conducted in Berkeley for the purpose 
of comparing the growth of tomatoes in soil and water-culture media, 
according to actual measurement, somewhat more water was required 
to produce a unit weight of fruit under water-culture conditions than 
under soil conditions. Possibly more water was evaporated from the 
water surface than from the soil surface, in addition to the principal 
loss of water by evaporation through the plant, common to both 
soil and water culture. The fallacy of the idea that plants could be 
grown in a desert region with a fraction of the water needed to pro- 
duce crops in irrigated soil is evident, assuming any reasonably good 
management of irrigation practices. 

RfiSUMfi OF THE WATER-CULTURE TECHNIQUE 

Many types of containers for nutrient solutions have been found 
useful. In investigational work, 1- or 2-quart Mason jars provided 
with cork stoppers often serve as culture vessels (pi. 5). Sometimes 
5- or 10-gallon earthenware jars have been found suitable for experi- 
mental purposes. Small tanks of various dimensions have been 
extensively used. For certain special investigations, shallow trays 
or vessels of Pyrex glass are required. The selection of a container 

» A number of inquiries have been received regarding the culture of mushrooms. The water-culture 
method imder discussion is unsuited to the culture of mushrooms. These plants require organic matter 
for their nutrition, and differ in this way from green plants, which can grow in purely mineral nutrient 
solutions like those described in this circulai 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 479 

depends on the kind of plant to be grown, the length of the growing 
period, and the purpose for which the plants are grown. Plate 6 
shows the varied types of containers for nutrient solutions as employed 
at the California Agricultural Experiment Station for research pur- 
poses. Some of the smaller containers illustrated would doubtless 
be convenient for amateur use, but the importance of the factor of 
aeration of the solution should be stressed. If small containers are 
employed and a large root system is to be developed, it may be 
desirable or necessary to provide for special aeration of the culture 
solutions. Plants diflfer greatly in regard to their requirements for 
aeration of the root system. 

For commercial water culture, long, narrow, shallow tanks have 
been employed. They may be constructed of wood, cement, black 
iron coated with asphalt paint, or other sufficiently cheap materials 
which do not give off toxic substances. In these tanks is placed the 
nutrient solution in which roots of the plant are immersed. Wire 
screens are placed over the tops of the tanks, or inside, above the 
solution. The screens support a layer of bedding of varying thickness 
(often 3 or 4 inches), according to the kind of plant grown (pi. 7). 
This technique was first suggested by W. F. Gericke.^^ The bed may 
be prepared from a number of inexpensive materials — for example, 
pine shavings, pine excelsior, rice hulls. Some materials, such as 
redwood shavings or sawdust, may be toxic. Seeds are planted in the 
moist beds, or young plants from flats are set in them with their roots 
in the nutrient solution. Roots may later develop not only in the 
solutions in the tanks, but also in the beds. 

The shallowness of the tanks and the porous nature of the beds 
facilitate aeration of the root system — an essential factor — but as 
already pointed out, such aeration unsupplemented by an additional 
oxygen supply, does not give the best growth of all kinds of plants. 
Recently evidence became available that significant improvement of 
growth and yield of tomato plants resulted from continuous bubbling 
of air through the nutrient solution, although the yields from un- 
aerated cultures were at least as large as any previously reported for 
water culture. 

Chemically pure salts commonly employed in making nutrient solu- 
tions for scientific experiments would be too expensive for commercial 
practice, and a number of ordinary fertilizer salts can serve in large- 
scale production of crops. Recent developments in the fertilizer in- 
dustry have made available cheap salts of considerable degree of pur- 
ity. Some commercial salts, however, contain impurities (fluorine, 
for example, is commonly found in phosphate fertilizers) which may 
be toxic to plants under water-culture conditions. 

" Oericke, W. F., Aquaculture: A meana of crop production, Amer. Journ. Bet., vol. 16, p. 862, 1929. 



480 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

DIRECTIONS FOR GROWING PLANTS BY THE WATER-CULTURE 

METHOD 

TANKS AND OTHER CONTAINERS FOR NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS 

Various kinds of tanks have been utilized for growing plants in 
water culture. Tanks of black iron, well painted with asphalt paint 
(most ordinary paints cannot be used because of toxic substances), 
have proved satisfactory for experimental work. Galvanized iron 
may give trouble, even when coated with asphalt paint, if the paint 
scales off. 

Concrete tanks have been tried, but they may require thorough 
leaching before use. Painting the inside of the tank with asphalt 
paint is advisable. Wooden tanks will serve the purpose, if made 
watertight. Redwood may give off toxic substances and therefore 
may require preliminary leaching to remove these substances. Final- 
ly, coating with asphalt paint is desirable. 

For small-scale cultures, 2- or 4-gallon earthenware crocks may 
be serviceable. A wire screen to hold the bedding material can be 
bent over the sides of the crock. But if a number of plants are to 
be grown to large size in such jars, the solution may require special 
aeration as by bubbling air through it continuously. 

For demonstrations in schools, Mason jars covered with brown 
paper, to exclude light, can be employed (pi. 5). The jars are pro- 
vided with cork stoppers in which one or more holes have been bored 
(sometimes a slit is also made in the cork; see fig. 1). Plants are 
fixed in the holes with cotton. Wheat or barley plants are very suit- 
able for these demonstrations, since they may be grown in the jars 
without any special arrangements for aeration. 

Other types of culture vessels are shown in plate 6. 

The dimensions of tanks must be selected in accordance with the 
objective. One kind of tank, of moderate size, adapted to many 
purposes, has dimensions of 30 inches in length, 30 inches in width, 
and 8 inches in depth (pi. 6, B). A smaller tank, 30 inches long, 
12 inches wide, and 8 inches deep, is convenient for use in many 
experiments (pi. 6, (7). In general, shallow tanks will be found 
suitable. The length and width may be determined by consideration 
of convenience and economy. As an alternative to the porous bed, 
for many kinds of plants, tanks can be provided with metal or wooden 
covers perforated to hold corks in which plants are fixed with cotton, 
if adequate aeration is maintained (pi. 2).*' (See discussion of aera- 
tion, p. 467.) 

" A description of the construction of aerating devices for culture solutions is given by: Furnstal, A . F., 
and Johnson, S. B., Preparation of sintered pyrex glass aerators for use in water-culture experiments with 
plants. Plant Physiol., vol. 11, pp. 189-94, 1936. 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 481 

When large tanks are to be used with a porous bed, a heavy chicken- 
wire netting (1-inch mesh), coated with asphalt paint, is fastened to 
a frame and placed directly over the tank to provide support for the 
porous bed. In constructing a frame, it is advisable to leave several 
narrow sections not covered with wire netting, but with wooden covers 
which can be conveniently removed for inspection of roots or for 
adding water or chemicals. The wire netting should be stretched 
immediately above the surface of the solution when the tank is full. 
Cross supports may be placed under the netting to prevent it from 
sagging (pi. 7). A carpenter or mechanic can design and build 
suitable tanks and frames, which may take many forms. 

NATURE OF BED ^* 

When a porous bed is to be employed, a wire screen is covered by 
a layer of the porous material 3 or 4 inches thick — thicker when 
tubers or fleshy roots develop in the bed. Various cheap bedding 
materials have been suggested: pine excelsior, peat moss, pine shav- 
ings or sawdust, rice hulls, etc. Some materials are toxic to plants. 
Redwood should usually be avoided. One type of bed which has 
produced no toxic effects in experiments carried on in Berkeley, with 
tomatoes, potatoes, and certain other plants, consists of a layer of 
pine excelsior 2 or 3 inches thick, with a superimposed layer of rice 
hulls about 1 or 2 inches thick. For plants producing tubers of fleshy 
roots, some finer material may possibly need to be mixed with the 
excelsior. This is also essential when small seeds are planted in the 
bed, to prevent the seeds from falling into the solution and to effect 
good contact of moist material with the seed. In all cases, the bed 
must be porous and not exclude free access of air. 

If seeds are planted in the bed, it must, of course, be moistened 
at the start and maintained moist until roots grow into the solution 
below. For the development of tubers, bulbs, fleshy roots, etc., 
the bed should be maintained in a moist state, by occasional sprink- 
ling. Great care should be observed to prevent waterlogging of the 
bed, resulting from immersion of the lower portion of the bed in the 
solution. This leads to exclusion of air and to undesirable bacterial 
decompositions. 

PLANTING PROCEDURES 

Seeds may be planted in the moist bed, but often it is better to 
set out young plants chosen for their vigor, which have been grown 
from seeds in flats of good loam. Some seeds (for example, cereal 
seeds) may also be conveniently germinated between layers of moist 

» The general arrangement of this type of bed was described by Qericke, W. F., and Tavernetti, J. R., 
Heating of liquid culture media for tomato production, Agr. Eng., vol. 17, pp. 141-42, 184, 1936. 



482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

filter paper (or paper toweling), particularly if plants are to be fixed 
in corks and grown in jars or in tanks with perforated metal or wooden 
covers. The upper layers of moist paper are removed after seeds 
begin to germinate. The seedlings are allowed to grow on the moist 
bed until large enough to place in corks. An excess of water is then 
added to the moist paper and the young plants removed carefully so 
as not to damage the roots. 

In transplanting from a flat of soil, the soil is thoroughly soaked 
with water so that the plants can be removed with the least possible 
injury to the roots. The roots are then rinsed free of soil with a 
light stream of water and immediately set out in the beds or corks, 
with the roots immersed in the solution. When young plants are 
set out in the beds, the roots are placed in the solution, and at the 
same time the layer of excelsior is built up over the screen. Then 
the layer of rice hulls is placed on top of the excelsior (pi. 7). If 
seeds are to be planted in the bed, the whole bed must be installed 
and moistened before the seed is planted. 

SPACING OF PLANTS 

In our experiments with tomato plants, they were set close to- 
gether, in some instances 20 plants to 25 square feet of solution 
surface. No general advice can be offered as to the best spacing. 
This depends on the kind of plant and on light conditions. Indi- 
vidual experience must guide the grower. 

ADDITION OF WATER TO TANKS 

In starting the culture, the tank is filled with solution almost to 
the level of the lower part of the bed. As the plants grow, water 
will be absorbed by plants or evaporated from the surface of the 
solution, and the level of the solution in the tank will faU. The 
recommendation has generally been made that after the root system 
is sufiiciently developed, the level of the solution should remain from 
one to several inches below the lower part of the bed, to facilitate 
aeration. However, since the solution level should not be permitted 
to fall very far, regular additions of water are required." 

As pointed out earlier, when large amounts of water have to be 
added to a tank, excessive accumulations of certain salts contained 
in the water may occur, especially if the salt content of the water is 
high. To avoid this difficulty, the entire solution is changed whenever 
the salt concentration becomes high enough to influence the plant 

" Certain methods of circulating culture solutions (such as those described by J. W. Shive and W. R. 
Robbins, in the citation given in footnote 7, p. 468, New Jersey Agr. Exp. Stat. Bull. 636) may be convenient 
for maintaining a supply of water and nutrients, as well as assisting in aeration of roots. One commercial 
greenhouse has utilized on a large scale a method of circulating nutrient solution from a central reservoir 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD HOAGLAND AND ARNON 483 

adversely. Should plants be injured, however, by the presence in the 
water of high concentrations of elements hke zinc, changing solutions 
will not prevent injury. Because of the wide variation in the composi- 
tion of water from different sources, no specific directions to cover all 
cases can be given. 

CHANGES OF NUTRIENT SOLUTION 

As the plants begin to grow, nutrient salts will be absorbed and 
the acidity of the solution will change. More salts and acid may be 
added, but to know how much, chemical tests on the solution are 
required. When these cannot be made, an arbitrary procedure may 
be adopted of draining out the old solution every week or two, imme- 
diately refilling the tank with water, and adding salts and acid, as 
at the beginning of the culture. The number of changes of solution 
required wUl depend on the size of plants, how fast they are growing, 
and on volume of solution. Distribute the salts and acid to different 
parts of the tank. In order to effect proper mixing, it may be well 
to fill the tank at first only partly full (but keep most of the roots 
immersed) and then after adding the salts and acid, to complete the 
filling to the proper level with a rapid stream of water, which should 
be so directed as not to injure the roots. 

TESTING AND ADJUSTING THE ACIDITY OP WATER AND NUTRIENT 

SOLUTION 

Ordinarily some latitude is permissible in the degree of acidity (pH) 
of the nutrient solution. For most plants a moderately acid reaction 
(from pH 5.0 to 6.5) is suitable. If distilled water is used in the prep- 
aration of nutrient solutions, no adjustment of its reaction is necessary. 
If tap water is used, a prelimiuary test of its reaction should be made 
and if the water is found alkaliue, it should be acidified before adding 
the nutrient salts. 

As already stated the reaction (pH) of the nutrient solution is subject 
to change as the plant grows. The reaction of the culture solution 
should be tested from time to time and corrected, if found alkaline. 

The chemicals required for testing acidity of water or nutrient solu- 
tion are: 

1 . Bromthymol blue indicator. — This can be obtained with directions 
for use, from chemical supply houses, in the form of solutions or im- 
pregnated strips of paper. Strips of other test papers covering a 
wide range of acidity are also now available on the market and may be 
found, by the amateur who understands their use, very convenient for 
adjusting the acidity of water as well as that of the nutrient solution. 

2. Sulphuric acid. — Purchase a supply of 3 percent (by volume) 
acid of chemically pure grade. (Concentrated, chemically pure sul- 

114728—39 32 



484 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1-9 3 8 

phuric acid may be purchased and diluted to 3 percent strength, but 
the concentrated acid is dangerous to handle by inexperienced persons.) 
This 3 percent acid may be further dUuted withVater if a preliminary 
test indicates that only small additions of acid are required to bring 
about a desirable reaction. 

Test the degree of acidity of a measured sample of the water or 
nutrient solution (a quart, for example) by noting the color of the 
added indicator or test paper immersed in the solution. When 
bromthymol blue indicator is used, a yellow color indicates an acid 
reaction (with no further adjustment necessary), green a neutral 
reaction, blue an alkaline reaction. 

If the original color is green or blue, add the dilute sulphuric acid 
(3 percent or less in strength) slowly with stirring until the color just 
changes to yellow (indicating approximately pH 6). Do not add more 
beyond this point, since the yellow color will also persist when excessive 
amounts of acid are added. Record the amount of acid required. 

Finally, add a proportionate amount of the acid to the water or 
nutrient solution in the culture tank or vessel, having first determined 
how much it holds. 

MODIFICATION OF NUTRIENt'^SOLUTION BASED ON ANALYSIS OF WATER 

A chemical analysis of the water to be employed in making the 
nutrient solution is useful. Some waters may contain so much cal- 
cium, and perhaps magnesium and sulphate, that further additions of 
these nutrient elements are unnecessary, or even undesirable. The 
objective should be to approximate the intended composition of 
the nutrient solution, taking into account the salts already present 
in the water. Since, however, considerable latitude is permissible in 
the composition of nutrient solutions, analysis of the water is not 
indispensable, unless the content of mineral matter is very high. 

SELECTION OF A NUTRIENT SOLUTION 

As stated before, there is no one nutrient solution which is always 
superior to every other solution. Among many solutions which might 
be employed, those described below have been foimd to give good 
results with various species of plants in experiments conducted in 
Berkeley, with a source of good water. Other solutions can also be 
used with good results. 

The composition of the solutions is given in two forms: (A) by 
rough measurements adapted to the amateur without special weighing 
or measuring instruments, and (B) in more exact terms for those with 
some knowledge of chemistry, who have proper faciUties for more 
accurate experimentation. 



WATER-CTJLTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 



485 



PREPARATION OF NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS: METHOD A, FOR AMATEURS 

Either one of the solutions given in table 2 may be tried. Solution 2 
may often be preferred because the ammonium salt delays the develop- 
ment of undesirable alkalinity. The salts are added to the water, 
preferably in the order given. 

To either of the solutions, add the elements iron, boron, manganese, 
and in some cases zinc and copper. There is danger of toxic effect if 
much greater quantities of these elements are added than those 
indicated later in the text. Molybdenum and possibly other elements 
required by plants in minute amounts will be furnished by impurities 
in the nutrient salts or in the water, and need not be added deUberately. 

Table 2. — Composition of nutrient solutions.^ {The amounts given are for 26 gallons 

of solution.) 

SOLUTION 1 > 



Salt 


Grade of salt 


Approximate 

amount in 

ounces 


Approximate 
amount in 
level table- 
spoons 


Potassium phosphate (monobasic) 


Technical . . 


2 
3 


1 


Fertilizer 


4 


Calcium nitrate .. 


do 


7 


Magnesium sulphate (Epsom salt) 


Technical 


4 







SOLUTION 2 



Ammonium phosphate (monobasic) 

Potassium nitrate 


Technical . .... 


2H 
2M 


2 


Fertilizer - 


6 


Calcium nitrate ... 


do 


6 


Magnesium sulphate (Epsom salt) 


Technical 


4 









• The University does not sell nor give away any salts for growing plants in water culture. Chemicals 
may be purchased from local chemical supply houses, or possibly may be obtained through fertilizer dealers. 
Some of the chemicals may be obtained from druggists. If purchased in fairly large lots, the present price of 
the ingredients contained in 1 pound of a complete mixture of nutrient salts is approximately 5 to 10 cents for 
either solution described above. 

« To either of these solutions, supplements of elements required in minute quantity must be added; 
see directions in the text. 

(a) Boron and manganese solution. — Dissolve 3 teaspoons of pow- 
dered boric acid and 1 teaspoon of chemically pure manganese chloride 
(MnCl2.4 H2O) in a gallon of water. (Manganese sulphate could be 
substituted for the chloride.) Dilute 1 part of this solution with 2 
parts of water, by volume. Use a pint of the diluted solution for 
each 25 gallons of nutrient solution. 

The elements in group 1 are added when the nutrient solution is 
first prepared and at all subsequent changes of solution. If plants 
develop symptoms characteristic of lack of manganese or boron, 
solution a, in the amount indicated in the preceding paragraph, may 
be added between changes of the nutrient solution or between addition 
of salts needed in large quantities.^" But care is needed, for injury 
may easily be produced by adding too much of these elements. 

i< The University is not prepared to diagnose symptoms on samples of plant tissues sent in for examination* 



486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

(b) Zinc and copper solution. — Ordinarily this solution may be omit- 
ted, because these elements will amost certainly be supplied as im- 
purities in water or chemicals, or from the containers. When it is 
needed additions are made as for solution a. To prepare solution h, 
dissolve 1 teaspoon of chemically pure copper sulphate (CUSO4.5H2O) 
and 4 teaspoons of chemically pure zinc sulphate (ZnS04.7H20) in a 
gallon of water. Dilute 1 part of this solution with 4 parts of water. 
Use 1 teaspoon of the diluted solution for each 25 gallons of nutrient 
solution. 

(c) Additions oj iron to nutrient solution. — Generally, iron solution 
will need to be added at frequent and regular intervals, for example, 
once or twice a week. If the leaves of the plant tend to become 
yellow, even more frequent additions may be required. However, a 
yellowing or mottling of leaves can also arise from many other causes. 

The iron solution is prepared as follows: Dissolve 1 level teaspoon 
of iron tartrate (iron citrate or iron sulphate can be substituted, but 
the tartrate or citrate is often more eflFective than the sulphate) in 1 
quart of water. Add K cup of this solution to 25 gallons of nutrient 
solution each time iron is needed. 

PREPARATION OF NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS: METHOD B, FOR SCHOOLS OR 
TECHNICAL LABORATORIES 

For experimental purposes, the use of distilled water and chemically 
pure salts is recommended. Molar stock solutions (except when 
otherwise indicated) are prepared for each salt, and the amounts indi- 
cated below are used. 

Solution 1 Cubic centimeters in a liter of 

nutrient solution 

M KH2PO4, potassium acid phosphate 1 

M KNO3, potassium nitrate 5 

M Ca(N03)2, calcium nitrate 5 

M MgS04, magnesium sulphate 2 

Solution 2 Cubic centimeters in a liter of 

nutrient solution 

M NH4H2PO4, ammonium acid phosphate 1 

M KNO3, potassium nitrate 6 

M Ca(N03)2, calcium nitrate 4 

M MgS04, magnesium sulphate 2 

To either of these solutions add the following solutions a and 6 
below. 

(a) Prepare a supplementary solution which will supply boron, 
manganese, zinc, copper, and molybdenum as follows: 



WATER-CULTURE METHOD — HOAGLAND AND ARNON 487 

Grams dissolved in 1 liter 

Compound: o/HjO 

H3BO3, boric acid 2. 86 

MnCl2.4H20, manganese chloride 1. 81 

ZnS04.7H20, zinc sulphate . 22 

CUSO4.5H2O, copper sulphate . 08 

H2M0O4.H2O molybdic acid (assaying 85 percent M0O3) . 09 

Add 1 cc of this solution for each Uter of nutrient solution, when 
solution is first prepared or subsequently changed, or at more frequent 
intervals if necessary. 

This will give the following concentrations: 

Parts per million of nutrient 
Element: solution 

Boron 0. 5 

Manganese . 5 

Zinc . 05 

Copper . 02 

Molybdenum . 05 

(6) Add iron in the form of 0.5 percent iron tartrate solution or 
other suitable iron salt, at the rate of 1 cc per liter, about twice a week 
or as indicated by appearance of plants. 

The reaction of the solution is adjusted to approximately pH6 by 
adding 0.1 NH2SO4 (or some other suitable dilution). 

Molar solutions. — The concentrations of stock solutions of nutrient 
salts used in preparation of nutrient solutions are conveniently expressed 
in terms of molarity. A molar solution is one containing a 1 gram- 
molecule (mol) of dissolved substance in 1 liter of solution. (In all 
nutrient-solution work, the solvent is water.) A gram-molecule or 
mol of a compound is the number of grams corresponding to the 
molecular weight. 

Example 1: How to make a molar solution of magnesium sulphate: 
The molecular weight of magnesium sulphate, MgS04.7H20 is 264.50. 
Ooe mol of magnesium sulphate consists of 264.50 grams. Hence to 
make a molar solution of magnesium sulphate, dissolve 264.50 grams 
of MgS04.7H20 in water and make to 1 liter volume. 

Example 2: How to make a Ko molar (0.05 M) solution of mono- 
calcium phosphate, Ca(H2P04)2.H20: The molecular weight of mono- 
calcium phosphate, Ca(H2P04)2.H20 is 252.17. Hence 0.05 mol of 

252 17 fframs 
Ca(H2P04)2.H20 is ^-20 =12.61 grams. Therefore, to make a 

0.05 M solution of monocalcium phosphate, dissolve 12.61 grams of 
Ca(H2P04)2.H20 in water and make to 1 liter volume. 



p* fl 




Si « 

2-3 






g aj 






3 2 



C3 



2& 

V3 CO 



S-nithsonian Report, 1938. — Hoagland and Arnon 



Plate 2 




1. Eflect of forced aeration on asparagus plants grown in culture solutions. Right: plants without forced 
aeration. Left: plants grown in solution through which air was bubbled continuously. 



l' ^^ 




■;i 


TiTT'H 




■l 


K,''> 'Jmlk 1,11 'I'm, jL' ^^^1 


^^1 



2. The asparagus plant on the left grew in a nutrient solution in which boron, manganese, zinc, and copper 
were present in such small amounts as one part in several million parts of solution; those on the right grew 
in solutions to which these elements were not added. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938.— Hoagland and Arnon 



PLATE 3 




Growth of tomato plants in fertile soil, in nutrient solution, and in pure silica sand irrigated ea^'VJf^J' ''l'^ 
nutrient solution. Fruit has been harvested for 7 weeks prior to taking the photograph. AH plants 
have made excellent growth and set large amounts of fruit in all three media. The general cultural con- 
ditions, spacing, staking, etc., were the same. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Hoagland and Arnon 



PLATE 4 




Under favorable conditions tomato plants can grow to a great height and bear fruit over an extended period 
of time. 1 his is equally possible in soil, sand, and water-culture media. The plants in the foreground 
were grown in a bed of fertile soil. At the time of taking this photograph, several days before the termina- 
tion of the experiment, most of the fruit was already harvested. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Hoagland and Arnon 



Plate 5 




Corn and sunflower plants grown in nutrient solution contained in 2--iuart mason jars. Note method of 
placing plants in perforated corks. The jars are covered with thick paper to exclude light. 






Per- 
iron 
n. X 
r can 
rtain 
aster 




• mo g S a 




^ .aS"oB 
















a.gl^go 




S 2 ?3>« <u S 


Q 






I 


CD " a 3 fi 


h 


9^ a a-Si: 


UJ 

tr 


life's-: 


D 
J 


.as^og-op 


u 


00 o^-"" is 


UJ 

h 


^«.9^a:^ 




< 

5 


« 03 o a s " 




UJ 


251=3 |g 
3-=a§sS 

a ojr: ">— !- 


I 


h 

>• 

m 


U) 


ga°s|g 


h 
Z 
Ui 

1 


aag^^l 


•^-^ a S^«^ 

^^.§a^g 


s 


a ho -qt) 
"3.90^ gd 
».a a^S 
a5a=!:§g 


UJ 

a. 
X 


UJ 


z 





la.9-a^-g 


z 


ei^t6- 


> 

q: 




< 

U 




u. 


.3-1 "Is 

■r; • M rrt S- ^"^ 


IT 


"" a s Qi s 
^c^^a^ig 


UJ 


z 


■3. o =^ « ^ 




m^ ^ 03 m •- 


< 


^^llis 


z 

U 


cs a o^j;°^ 
aj_i-i *^ 


n3T3 -t^ 0, 3 


U. 




.9« gSg 


UJ 


'Sg.a^'S.a . 

*^ '^ooS 03 m a 


0. 

> 






^0 a a >>" 


D 


03 bjo" te a^.« 





-s^i^'g'S 


a: 
< 




> 


03 3 ..'o M t; 




> m m ^ fl „ 




lo-S^^'-ggg 




— ' .5 ^-_ « a 
a "•S^^-a"' 






-r^ ^ . 03 c! i3 

a, -t;^ p t> a g 

I-. c3 '-' S^'G •— 




03 <^ -^^-^ 



^ a 










^ 'S: 



■a a 



2 S 






< ^ 









I 1=1 o 



is g a 
III 



GQ 



'ROOT-PRESSURE"— AN UNAPPRECIATED FORCE IN SAP 

MOVEMENT » 



By Philip R. White 



[With one plate] 



The long and tortuous history of our knowledge — or better our 
observations and theories — on the movement of sap in plants is famil- 
iar to most botanists. From the time of Stephen Hales, 200 years ago, 
up to the middle of the nineteenth century, the movement of water 
through the plant was supposed to be brought about primarily through 
the activity of living cells, either by the agency of unidentified tissues 
of root and stem, as Hales believed (1727), or the medullary rays, as 
suggested by Knight (1801). The "drawing power" of the leaves was 
recognized by both Hales and Knight, but, since it was well known 
that a suction pump would not lift water higher than about 30 feet, 
this was considered of secondary importance. Beginning about 1860, 
along with the rise of mechanistic theories in other fields, evidence 
began to accumulate which indicated that living cells might not be 
necessary for the rise of sap. This changing viewpoint found strong 
support in Molisch's demonstration (1902) of the traumatic nature of 
many of the bleeding phenomena upon which Hales' vital theory 
rested and finally culminated in the development of the Dixon- 
Askenazy cohesion theory of sap movement (Dixon and Joly, 1895; 
Askenazy, 1895). This theory, which takes account of the enormous 
suctions developed at evaporating leaf surfaces and of the fact that in 
capillary tubes water possesses a great tensile strength capable of 
transmitting these suctions through a plant stem to the soil, seemed to 
deal with forces more nearly commensurate with the needs of tall 
trees than had those demonstrated by Hales and his successors. The 
result was that most plant physiologists completely abandoned the 
vital theories in favor of the mechanical ones. In spite of the objec- 
tions of Priestley (1935), Ursprung (1906), Heyl (1933), and others, 
that is approximately where the situation rests today. 

The cohesion theory certainly has some very serious flaws which are 
rather well outlined in Priestley's paper of 2 years ago (1935). It has 

' Paper from the Department of Animal and Plant Pathology of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical 
Research, Princeton, New Jersey, presented at the Indianapolis meeting of the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science, December 1937. The American Association prize was awarded to Dr. White 
for his noteworthy contribution to science presented at the annual meeting. Reprinted by permission 
from the American Journal of Botany, vol. 25, No. 3, March 1938. 

489 



490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

been accepted not so much because of its freedom from objections 
as because of the inadequacy of all other theories. The only real con- 
tender — Hales' old "root-pressure" scheme — was rejected, first, be- 
cause pressures greater than the 1.4 atmospheres recorded by Hales 
himself had not been observed, and, second, because all demonstra- 
tions of root-pressure rested on experiments with decapitated and 
moribund plants subject to Molisch's criticism. Water must be 
raised in some Eucalyptus trees to a height of 350 feet, requiring either 
a push or a pull of at least 13 atmospheres. The maximum root-pres- 
sures observed were only of a magnitude of 1 .4 atmospheres, they were 
transitory, and doubt even existed as to their presence in uninjured 
plants. Consequently, modern plant physiology texts for the most 
part treat "root-pressure" as unimportant. 

Excised roots of tomato have been kept growing in vitro for a num- 
ber of years (White, 1937). The roots form normally developed 
vascular strands, although completely immersed in a nutrient solution 
(pi. 1, fig. 1). The occurrence of strands in roots grown under these 
conditions has seemed rather anomalous. If, however, a continuous 
flow of liquid be assumed to take place through the roots, the presence 
of strands would be understandable. If such a current exists, it was 
thought these roots might offer a means of determining the reality or 
unreality of "root-pressure" and perhaps of measuring it under con- 
ditions free from Molisch's objections. 

Means have, therefore, been devised of repeating Hales' original 
experiment, using single actively metabolizing tomato roots instead 
of his moribund grapevine stocks. 

Capillary manometers were built to receive single roots. Specimens 
of a clone of excised tomato roots grown in continuous culture for the 
past 5 years were subcultured and allowed to stand for 1 week, to 
give the cut surfaces time to heal completely. Their bases were then 
carefully inserted into manometers, and seals were made by means of 
miniature rubber hose corresponding to those used in the classic 
Fuchsia demonstration known to every student of plant physiology. 
The roots with their attached manometers were returned to fresh flasks 
of nutrient, and their subsequent behavior observed (pi. 1, fig. 2). 
All manipulations had, of course, to be carried out aseptically and 
with as Uttle trauma as possible. 

The results of the first experiments were surprisingly good (White, 
1936). The roots did secrete water from their bases into manometers. 
There does exist a unidirectional flow of liquid through these roots. 
"Root-pressure" is not an artifact but a reality. This paper proposes 
to present some quantitative results of these experiments. 

If roots of this Idnd are set up in two series of manometers, with 
capillaries of the same diameter, one series containing water, the other 
mercury, we would expect a decrease in the secretion rate under the 



" ROOT-PRESSURE " — WHITE 



491 



mercury column corresponding to the 13.5:1 differential in weight 
between mercury and water. Figure 1 shows the result of such an 
experiment using manometers 500 mm high. Contrary to expec- 
tation, no such observable decrease occurred. Both columns rose at 
the same rate. The pressure differential apparently had no effect on 
the secretion rates. The only conclusion to be drawn is that the 
curves do not represent pressures at all but only volumes. 

Closed manometers in which the pressure would build up rapidly 
with very little volume change were tried, but such manometers proved 
hard to clean and did not permit the detection of leaks at the root- 
manometer juncture. Leveling bulbs were then resorted to. Results 




50 100 



150 200 250 300 
Hours 



Figure 1.— Curves showing rise of liquid in two similar manometers, one filled with water, the other with 
mercury. The roots failed to secrete during the first 48 hours after the experiment was set up, presumably 
until they had recovered from the shock of manipulation. This lag does not always occur. The curves 
have almost identical slopes in spite of the 13.5:1 differential in weight between mercury and water. 

of an experiment with such a device are represented in figure 2. 
During the course of the experiment it was thrice necessary to replace 
or extend the manometer tube, and since the tubes were not all of the 
same diameter, a different scale had to be used for each. Scales were 
chosen, such that the slope of the curve for an hour or so before and 
after each change should be approximately the same. In this experi- 
ment the water column rose 1,790 mm in 6 days. A leveling bulb was 
then attached, and an atmosphere of pressure — 760 mm Hg — was 
applied. Since the column continued to rise at an undiminished 
rate, the pressure was increased after 20 hours to 2 atm. (1,520 mm 
Hg). The water still continued to rise. Sufficient mercury to give 
another atmosphere of pressure would have carried the bulb through 



492 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



the ceiling of the room, so the apparatus was carefully moved to a 
nearby laboratory which had a stairway in it, and the bulb was carried 
into the room above. Unfortunately, a period of adjustment was not 
allowed, as should have been done, so that when, under 3 atmospheres 
pressure, the column began to fall, no definite cause could be assigned 



I830r 



^.-t-'ApparatUo move J 
3 aim. 



2 otrrt 




Figure 2.— A curve showing the eSect of imposing pressures up to 3 atm. against the secretion pressures 
developed by a single tomato root. 

for the drop. But the fact that when the pressure was reduced again 
to 2 atm., the column did not resume the upward course it had pre- 
viously held at that pressure, indicated that a leak in the apparatus 
had probably been brought about in moving. The important fact 
demonstrated by this experiment is that a pressure of 2 atm. was not 
sufficient to retard noticeably secretion of water from the uninjured 
base of a single root of tomato. 



"ROOT-PRESSURE" — WHITE 493 

Since roots of this sort developed pressures in excess of 30 pounds 
to the square inch, it was evident that something more than the 
simple hose seal between glass and root would have to be devised to 
stand the pressures. After many trials, the assembly shown in 
plate 1, figure 3, was developed. The base of the manometer had a 
hole about 1 mm in diameter and 15 mm deep to receive the base of 
the root. Above this the opening tapered abruptly to a bore of about 
0.25 mm. A centimeter back of the tip on the outside was a collar 
of glass. The specially made rubber connecting tube had a corre- 
sponding collar inside, with the hole about 1.5 mm in diameter at 
the end which was to fit over the glass and only about 0.1 mm in 
diameter where it was to enclose the root. In setting up an experi- 
ment, this tube was moistened with glycerine and the end of the 
manometer inserted completely through it so that the tip protruded. 
The base of the root was then inserted into the manometer and the 
rubber pushed back until it enclosed the root for a distance of about 
a centimeter and the glass for an equal distance. A strong linen 
thread was bound tightly around the rubber both over the root and 
over the glass. The rubber distributed the pressure so that this 
binding did not crush the root, while the glass collar prevented the 
rubber from slipping off. The whole was then enclosed in a metal 
clamp, which had collars to press into the rubber at both ends. This 
effectively protected the rubber from being ruptured by the pressures 
applied. The manometer was then inserted into a 500 ml Erlen- 
meyer flask and the upper end attached to a metal manifold. Pres- 
sure was appUed to the manifold from a compressed air tank and 
observation begun. The manifold used took 4 manometers at a 
time. 

In the first series of experiments with this apparatus, a gage reading 
to 100 pounds per square inch was used, on the supposition that this 
would suffice to record any pressure obtained. Figure 3 represents 
the results of one experiment with such a setup. The rise of the 
water column was observed for 24 hours and the secretion curve, 
which showed a definite diurnal variation in slope,^ plotted. Pres- 
sure of one atmosphere was applied at 4 p. m. and, since the column 
continued to rise, a second atmosphere was applied at 5 p. m. and the 
apparatus left over night. Under a pressure of 2 atm. the column 
rose as rapidly that night as it had in the corresponding period of the 

' This diurnal rhythm was observed in all experiments where readings were made at frequent enough 
intervals to permit its detection. It seems to be a regular characteristic of the secretion process. The 
roots used were not protected against the diurnal variations in temperature (24''-28'' C, June 1936) and 
illumination characteristic of a laboratory room with NE. exposure. Nevertheless, since the mean daily 
temperatures often varied more than did the hourly temperatures within single 24-hour periods, without 
producing corresponding variations in secretion rate, it seems improbable that this rhythm is the result of 
temperature variations. It is diflScult, though not impossible, to imagine how an organ without chloro- 
phyll and whose growth rate has been shown to be independent of Ulumination of the intensity obtained in 
the laboratory (White, 1937) could have this one process so markedly affected by illumination. This 
diurnal rhythm remains an Interesting but as yet unexplained feature of the secretion process. 



494 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



day before, so at 9 a. m, the pressure was increased to 3 atm., at 11 
a. m. to 4 atm., at 2 p. m. to 5 atm., and at 4 p. m. to 6 atm. At 7 
o'clock that evening the column was stUl rising, and by 9 the next 
morning had risen an additional 110 mm, although it had been sub- 
jected to a pressure of 90 pounds per square inch over that period. 
As already stated, the gage read only to 100 lbs. Another atmos- 




FiGUBE 3.— Curves showing the rates of secretion of two similar tomato roots over a period of 3^ days, one 
with uniform (atmospheric) pressure, the other against imposed pressures up to 90 Ibs./sg. in. 

phere would have given a pressure of 105 lbs., so the attempt to reach 
a pressure sufficient to stop secretion had to be abandoned. The pres- 
sure was, therefore, removed and the remainder of the curve to the 
top of the manometer plotted. A control curve, obtained without 
imposed pressure, is plotted above the experimental one, for com- 
parison. 



"ROOT-PRESSURE" — WHITE 495 

If, now, the control curve, recorded without imposed pressure, is 
compared with the experimental one, obtained under pressures vary- 
ing between and 6 atm., they are seen to be almost exactly ahke. 
Moreover, if the segment: 9 a. m, to noon, on the 3d day, is compared 
with the corresponding segment on the 4th day, their slopes are seen 
to be almost identical, although the second was obtaiued under zero 
pressure and the first under 3 atm. This record represents one of 
4 manometers set up in series on a single manifold. A second gave 
an identical curve up to the afternoon of the 3d day when a bacterial 
contamination of the culture solution set in and secretion stopped 
abruptly. A third gave a similar curve but with a shallower slope, 
possibly because the root used had a smaller diameter, and the fourth 
developed a leak around the root which permitted air to escape. Six 
atmospheres pressure, 4 times the greatest value that I have found 
recorded elsewhere for root-pressure (the exudation pressures of 
Boehm, Figdor, Molisch, and MacDougal were of quite a different 
sort, in that they were obtained as a result of trauma) was not enough 
to slow down secretion to a measurable extent. 

The sap movement which we are here studying is a matter of filtra- 
tion through a membrane which we usually assume to be readily 
permeable to water, and surely equally permeable iu either direction. 
The membrane can, therefore, be ignored in any calculation of the 
forces causing filtration, at least so long as movement is slow. We 
have been trying to balance a measured apphed force against an 
unknown secretion force. Secretion should stop when the external 
and internal forces are equal, and water should flow back through 
the membrane — the root — when the applied force exceeds the force 
of secretion. Secretion should become slower and slower as the 
external force approaches the value of the internal one. 

Six atmospheres external pressure did not bring about any observ- 
able retardation of secretion from these roots. Only one conclusion 
appears possible from this observation — 6 atmospheres must be so 
small in comparison with the secretion pressure actually developed 
by the roots as to be quite insignificant. It is the writer's opinion 
that this secretion pressure cannot be less than 10 atmospheres and is 
probably much more than that. In fact, it seems possible that it 
may be limited only by the osmotic value of the ceUs themselves. 
Attempts have been made to impose still higher pressures, but they 
have met with mechanical diflBculties that have not yet been over- 
come. It is interesting that so far failures have all been due to flaws 
in the apparatus. The roots have not failed to secrete liquid regularly 
against all pressures to which they have been subjected. 

The old "root-pressure" theory of Hales has been disparaged by 
modem plant physiology texts because it did not provide sufficient 
force and because of the suspicion that it might be an artifact. These 



496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 38 

experiments seem to show conclusively that both objections are 
invalid. "Root-pressure" is certainly a very real phenomenon, going 
on in uninjured normally metabolizing roots and showing a striking 
diurnal rhythm that is reminiscent of many vital processes. The 
fact that a bacterial contamination will stop secretion so suddenly 
indicates the metabolic character of the process. And the force 
developed is of a magnitude not to be despised. Six atmospheres 
pressure is sufficient to sustain a 200-foot water column. This is 
far higher than any tomato plant ever grows. Yet such a column 
appears to be small in comparison with what the lifting power of 
tomato roots is capable of sustaining. That is a force which is to be 
reckoned with. It has been unappreciated in the past because, 
before the development of the root-culture technique, only moribund 
and abnormally metabolizing tissues could be studied. 

It is not suggested that mechanical factors, such as transpiration- 
pull, cohesion, capillarity, etc., do not play a considerable role in sap 
movement. Under conditions of high transpiration they probably 
do account for the movement of large volumes of water through the 
plant. It is merely pointed out that under certain conditions — such 
as those prevailing in the spring when the maple sap is flowing, 
though leaves have not been developed — some or all of these me- 
chanical processes cease to function. At such times root-pressure or 
its equivalent, stem-pressure, is quite adequate to provide for the 
proper functioning of even the tallest trees. 

No attempt will be made at present to explain how this force is 
developed. It may be said, however, that we are much interested 
in determining if there is a diurnal rhythm in respiration rate to 
correspond with the observed rhythm in rate of secretion. It will 
take some rather delicate methods to determine that. But it is 
believed that we have here a phenomenon which can be studied in 
detail and which may throw some light on the mechanism of secretion 

SUMMARY 

Experiments have shown that excised tomato roots growing in 
vitro secrete sap continuously and rhythmically from their proximal 
ends. Methods of measuring the force of this secretion have been 
developed. It is not retarded by opposed pressures of 90 pounds 
per square inch. The secretion force, therefore, probably greatly 
exceeds this value. Since a pressure of 90 pounds per square inch is 
sufficient to raise water to a height of 200 feet, and since the existence 
of such secretion pressures has been demonstrated in normally metab- 
olizing, actively growing roots, it is concluded that "root-pressure" 
may be a far more important factor in sap movement than has been 
generally conceded. 



"KOOT-PRESSURE" — WHITE 497 

REFERENCES 

ASKENAZY, E. 

1895. Ueber das Saftsteigen. Verb, natur. med. Ver. Heidelberg, n. f., 
vol. 5, pp. 325-345. 
Dixon, H. H., and Jolt, J. 

1895. On the ascent of sap. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, B 186; pp. 
563-576. 
Hales, S. 

1727. Vegetable staticifs, or an account of some statical experiments on 
the sap in vegetables. J. Peele, London. 
Hetl, J. G. 

1933. Der Einfluss von Aussenfaktoren auf das Bluten der Pflanzen. Planta, 
vol. 20, pp. 294-353. 
Knight, T. A. 

1801. Account of some experiments on the ascent of the sap in trees. Phil. 
Trans. Roy. Soc. London, B 1801, pp. 333-353. 

MOLISCH, H. 

1902. Ueber localen Blutungsdruck und seine Ursachen. Bot. Zeit., vol. 
60, pp. 45-63. 
Priestly, J. H. 

1935. Sap ascent in the tree. Science Progress, vol. 117, pp. 42-56. 
Ursprung, a. 

1906. Die Beteiligung lebender Zellen am Saftsteigen. Jahrb. Wiss. Bot., 
vol. 42, pp. 503-544. 
White, P. R. 

1936. Root-pressure developed in isolated tomato roots growing in vitro. 

Paper presented before Amer. Soc. Plant Physiol., Atlantic City, 
Dec. 1936. 

1937. Seasonal fluctuations in growth rates of excised tomato root tips. 

Plant Physiol., vol. 12, pp. 183-190. 






^.^m^mm^wT^' 


»***»-.(waKrnfcra.-fe, '«**^^-s3»F:S5:^.--3gJ||g,^^ 


„. .•■ r-^*-^— ^^ 




H 


H^^^^^^^^^^^HU^^B^^^^H^ritaMtffel^^SBl_jL^__la 



S'3-^ 




III 




■Sypn 






s S . 




S-S"" 


^^x 








■^ >9 




O H-g 










oSSs 



THE REPRODUCTION OF VIRUS PROTEINS ^ ^ 



By W. M. Stanley 

Department of Animal and Plant Pathology of The Rockefeller Institute for Medical 
Research, Princeton, N. J. 



Protoplasm is the stuff of life. It has, for some time, been regarded 
as living matter in its simplest form. It has interested biologists for 
over 100 years, and has been the subject of extensive physical and 
chemical studies. However, the present state of our knowledge of 
protoplasm is best attested to by the fact that we are gathered here 
in a symposium on the very nature of this material. We know 
much about protoplasm, yet we do not know what it really is. There 
is a vital difference between the grayish, translucent, slimy proto- 
plasm which is the slime molds and the grayish, slimy material of 
certain protein gels, yet we do not know exactly what constitutes 
this vital difference. Biologists have, for many years, attempted to 
differentiate between the hving and the nonliving in protoplasm, 
without much success. According to Seifriz, many of the older ideas 
have been discarded and the discussion has settled down to the 
question as to whether a vital substance is concerned or whether proto- 
plasm results from a certain combination of substances, themselves 
nonliving. Most of the workers appear to feel that life results from 
a certain combination of a number of constituent parts, but that if a 
single vital substance is essential it is probably a protein or protein 
complex. Since viruses have long been considered to be living 
organisms and since certain typical viruses have been isolated recently 
in the form of high molecular weight proteins, it is obvious that a 
careful consideration of the nature of these virus proteins may throw 
some light on this question. 

Viruses are of unusual interest in this connection, because with 
respect to size they bridge the gap between the living and the non- 
living. At the upper end of a scale (see fig. 1) which includes entities 
ranging in size from the molecule of egg albumin, through viruses, up 

' Read at a symposium of the American Society of Naturalists in joint session with the American Society 
of Zoologists, the Botanical Society of America, and the Genetics Society of America. The American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, Indianapolis, Ind., December 30, 1937. Reprinted by per- 
mission from The American Naturalist, vol. 72, No. 739, March-April 1938. 

' The writer wishes to thank the many individuals who have contributed to the development and 
clarification of several of the points discussed in this paper. 

499 

114728—39 33 



500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 

COMPARATIVE SIZES OF VIRUSES 



Molecular 


Diam.or 


weight X 10"^ 


length 


(Particle weight 


X width 


X6.06X 10") 


\nmfi ^ 


Red blood cells* 173 000000 


IbOO 1 


Bacillus prodigiosus* 


173000 


750--1 


Rickettsia* 


11100 


300-'^ 


Psittacosis* 


8500 


275 


Vaccinia* 


2300" 




Myxoma* 


2 300' 


175 


Canary pox* 


2300. 




Pleuro-pneumonia organism' 


' 1400' 




Pseudo rabies 


1400 


150 


Ectromelia 


1400' 


Herpes simplex 


1400. 




Rabies fixe' 


800| 


125 


Borna disease 


800j 


Influenza 


700 


120 


Vesicular stomatitis 


410 


100 


Staphylococcus bacteriophage + 300"[ 


90 


Fowl plague 


300J 


C|5 bacteriophage 


173 


75 


Chicken tumor I * 


142 


70 


Tobacco mosaic* 


A2) 




Cucumber mosaics 3 and 4 * 43J 


430X 12.3 


Gene (Muller's est. of max. size) 


* 33 


125 X 20 


Latent mosaic of potato* 


26 


430 X 9.8 


Rabbit papilloma (Shope)* 


25 


40 


Equine encephalitis 


231 


38 


Megatherium bacteriophage 


23i 


Rift valley fever 


11 


30 


Tomato bushy stunt* 


9 


28 


Tobacco ring spot * 


7.4 


26 


Hemocyanin molecule (Busycon)* 6.7 


59X13.2 


Yellow fever 


4.3 


22 


Louping ill 


2.8 


19 


Hemocyanin molecule (Octop 


us)* 2.8 


64X8 


Poliomyelitis 


0.7 


12 


Staphylococcus bacteriopha 


get 0.4) 


10 


Foot-and-mouth disease 


0.4) 


Hemoglobin molecule (Horse)* 0.069 


2.8X0.6 


Egg albumin molecule* 


0.040 


1.8X0.6 




'/lOth - 
these 
sizes 



FiGUEE 1. 

(Explanatory matter on opposite page.) 



VIRUS PEOTEINS STANLEY 501 

to the red blood cell, it may be seen that certain viruses such as 
vaccinia and psittacosis are larger than certain well-recognized 
organisms such as the pleuro-pneumonia organism. At the lower 
end of the scale certain viruses such as poliomyelitis and yellow fever 
viruses are smaller than certain protein molecules. Viruses, there- 
fore, form an unbroken line with respect to size from the molecules to 
the organisms, and it is impossible at present to draw a dividing line 
between the two. Now, let us examine the nature of these agents. I 
have said that certain viruses have been isolated in the form of high 
molecular weight proteins, and we know that others have been isolated 
in the form of heavy materials composed chiefly of protein. The ones 
so isolated include those of foot-and-mouth disease, the staphylococcus 
bacteriophage, latent mosaic of potato, tobacco ring spot, severe etch, 
cucumber mosaic, many strains of tobacco mosaic, the Shope papil- 
loma, coli-bacteriophage, the Rous fowl sarcoma, vaccinia and psitta- 
cosis. Many of these have been isolated in such small amounts that 
it has been impossible to study them adequately, hence it is not known 
whether or not they really have the ordinary properties of molecules. 
It is possible that some are not molecules, but molecular aggregates or 
even small specialized organisms. Methods are now available for the 
preparation in adequate amounts of most of these entities, hence it is 
but a question of time untU sufficient amounts for complete studies 
are prepared. However, certain of the virus proteins, notably tobacco 
mosaic, have been prepared in such large amounts that rather com- 
plete physical, chemical, biological, and serological studies have been 
possible. These studies have enabled a rather good yet still incom- 
plete understanding of the probable nature of this virus protein. 
This afternoon I should like to discuss certain aspects of these studies 
which may be of value to us in understanding a bit about the manner 
in which protoplasm grows. 

Tobacco mosaic virus was first isolated in the form of a high molecu- 
lar weight crystalline protein early in 1935. The material first isolated 
was not homogeneous in all respects, but since that time it has been 
possible to prepare tobacco mosaic virus protein that is homogeneous 
with respect to its physical, chemical, biological, and serological 
properties. I should like to dwell upon this last statement regarding 
the homogeneity of the virus protein only sufficiently to impress upon 

A chart showing the relative sizes of several selected viruses, including bacteriophages, as compared to 
those of red blood cells, Bacillus prodigiosus, rickettsia, pleuropneumonia organism, and protein mole- 
cules. The figures for size have been arbitrarily selected from data avoilable in the literature. Par- 
ticles known to be asymmetric are so indicated and the estimated length and width and the molecular 
weight in accordance with the asymmetry are given. In other cases where the particles are known or 
assumed to be spherical, the diameter and the molecular weight based on a sphere of density 1.3 are given. 
*= evidence regarding shape available. t= large size from filtration and sedimentation of concentrated 
solutions and small size from diffusion of dilute solutions. (This figure, which is an enlarged and revised 
version of the one originally accompanying this article, is taken from W. M. Stanley, Recent advances 
in the study of viruses, in Science in Progress, 1939, Yale University Press, New Haven.) 



502 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

you that, according to all the tests that we have been able to devise, 
the protein is homogeneous in all respects, hence pure, hence is the 
virus. Among the physical tests that have been used is homogeneity 
with respect to rate of sedimentation, as measured in the Svedberg 
ultracentrifuge, and homogeneity with respect to electrochemical 
behavior, as measured in the electrophoresis cell. Chemical tests for 
homogeneity include fractionation of the protein by fractional crystal- 
lization and by centrifugation from solution under a variety of condi- 
tions, solubility studies, correlation of absorption spectrum with 
destruction spectrum and studies on partial inactivation. The bio- 
logical tests include the determination of the virus activity of the 
various fractions of protein obtained by physical and chemical means. 
The serological experiments include precipitin, complement-fixation, 
and both in vitro and in vivo anaphylactic tests. In connection with 
these tests, you may recall that at the meetings a year ago the protein 
as then prepared showed a cross reaction with normal plant protein 
when tested by the very sensitive anaphylactic technique. It was 
suggested that this cross reaction might be due to the presence of a 
fraction of a percent of normal protein as an impurity. This has been 
found to be the case, and it is now possible to remove this impurity and 
to prepare protein that gives no cross reaction with other material 
even by the most sensitive serological tests. Thus, by all the tests 
that we have been able to devise, the tobacco mosaic virus protein 
appears to be homogeneous. There is always the possibility, of 
course, that the virus activity is not due to the high molecular weight 
protein but to an impurity that cannot be detected by means now at 
our disposal. It should be recognized, however, that, by virtue of the 
experimental evidence for homogeneity already available, an impurity 
could hardly be other than a closely related high molecular weight 
protein, hence it would still follow that the virus is a protein. The 
possibility that the activity may be due to an impurity must always 
remain, regardless of the material under discussion. However, since 
there is no reason to beheve that such a situation actually prevails in 
the case of the virus protein, we are unable, at the present time, to 
conclude other than that the high molecular weight protein under 
discussion is the virus. Now, these same tests that indicate that the 
virus protein is homogeneous may be used to demonstrate that it 
possesses the ordinary properties of molecules. As a matter of fact, 
the chemist, after a perusal of the physical and chemical properties of 
tobacco mosaic virus protein, has no difficulty whatsoever in coming 
to the conclusion that, despite its huge size, it has all the properties of a 
molecule and hence is a molecule. 

However, we must remember that in addition to the properties 
which tobacco mosaic virus protein possesses as a molecule it also 



VIKUS PROTEIlvrS — STANLEY 503 

possesses virus activity, and the essence of virus activity is reproduc- 
tion. It is this property of the virus proteins that may give us a lead 
in our consideration of the growth of protoplasm and in which we are 
especially interested this afternoon. Let us examine the facts that 
we have at our disposal. The introduction of a few molecules or 
perhaps even one molecule of tobacco mosaic virus protein into the 
cell of a susceptible host is followed by the production within a very 
short time of millions of molecules of the kind introduced. The 
production is not confined to the one cell but spreads to adjoining 
cells, so that not one cell but miUions of cells are involved in the 
production of the new molecules of virus protein. We know that the 
new virus protein is of the same kind as that originally introduced, 
because we can isolate it and compare its properties with the properties 
of the virus protein introduced. We say that under such conditions 
the virus protein grows or reproduces, for from a few molecules we 
secure millions of molecules. Now, what happens when we retain the 
virus protein in a test tube or attempt to culture it on cell-free media or 
introduce it into dead cells or the cells of nonsusceptible hosts? We 
know that nothing happens, the amount of the protein does not in- 
crease, reproduction does not occur. Viruses have been found to 
reproduce, therefore, only within the living cells of certain susceptible 
hosts. I have said that in such cells the introduction of one kind of 
molecules results in the production of millions of the same kind. This 
is true, but it is not the whole truth, for just as there is this remarkable 
tendency for the production of millions of molecules of the same kind, 
there is also a remarkable tendency for the production of a very few 
slightly different molecules. The subsequent reproduction of such 
slightly different molecules gives rise to what we call a new strain, and 
the whole phenomenon may be regarded as mutation. We recognize 
that such a change has occurred by the symptoms we observe and 
because it is possible by suitable technique to isolate such strains. 
Thus Jensen has been able to isolate from a pure strain of tobacco 
mosaic virus over 50 strains, each of which he considers to be different 
and distinctive, and Holmes has been able to isolate a strain of tobacco 
mosaic virus that is so mild in its effect on the Turkish tobacco plant 
that it is difficult to determine its presence by mere observation. It 
might be argued that these various strains existed in the so-called pure 
strain as contaminants, but all the evidence obtained by Jensen, 
Kunkel, Holmes, and McKinney indicates that the new strains arise 
from a single pure strain when reproducing within the plant cells. We 
may conclude, therefore, that tobacco mosaic vu'us protein may 
reproduce within the cells of certain hosts and that when it does it 
tends to mutate and to give rise to new strains. Now, this ability 
to reproduce and to mutate only when within the living cells of certain 



504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

hosts is a property that we have not hitherto ascribed to ordinary 
molecules. We loiow, of course, certain autocatalytic reactions, such 
as the conversion of trypsinogen into trypsin in vitro on the addition 
of a little trypsin, in which a protein molecule appears to be reproduc- 
ing itself, yet we also know that in such instances the precursor is 
chemically quite similar to the end product. The situation prevailing 
in the case of tobacco mosaic virus appears to be different, for here we 
have found no evidence for the existence of a precursor similar to the 
virus protein and the reaction has so far been carried out only within 
living cells. Despite the fact that the net result of virus reproduction 
may be regarded as similar to that of an autocatalytic reaction, there 
is at this time no precedent for regarding the reaction itself as a true 
autocatalytic reaction. I feel that it is better to admit our ignorance, 
as long as we are forced to the inside of a living cell to achieve a set of 
conditions in which to conduct our autocatalytic reaction. It is a 
fact that we do not know aU that goes on within a living cell and, 
despite many attempts to dupUcate it or the set of conditions pre- 
vailing within, we have been imsuccessful. We are forced to conclude, 
therefore, that, although tobacco mosaic virus protein has the ordinary 
properties of molecules, it also has the ability to reproduce and to 
mutate, properties not ordinarily ascribed to molecules, and hence 
that tobacco mosaic virus protein represents an entity unfamiliar to 
us. Now, we may speculate concerning its nature and the manner in 
which it reproduces and mutates. I wish to impress upon you that 
this portion of the discussion is not based upon fact, but upon fancy. 
Let us first consider whether tobacco mosaic virus differs from ordi- 
nary living organisms. The fact that it has proved impossible to 
cultivate tobacco mosaic virus in the absence of living cells is fre- 
quently cited as evidence that it differs in nature from ordinary living 
organisms. However, this property of obligate intracellular para- 
sitism is not peculiar to viruses, for there are certain organisms that 
are known to be obligate parasites and to require the presence of 
living cells for reproduction. I do not feel, therefore, that our failure 
to cultivate viruses on synthetic media necessarily means that they 
differ from bacteria. The fact that tobacco mosaic virus protein may 
by crystallized has also been cited as evidence that it is not a living 
organism. Yet we know that crystallization is merely orientation 
and that orientation occurs in many living systems. Stretched muscle 
is orientated and gives an X-ray diffraction pattern that is character- 
istic of the crystalline state. At certain stages of cell division orien- 
tation occurs within the nucleus, for it becomes highly doubly refrac- 
tive. I do not feel, therefore, that the fact that we can cause tobacco 
mosaic virus protein to line up in orderly fashion need necessarily 
mean that it is nonlivhig. No evidence has been obtained that 
viruses have cell walls, and this might be used as a basis for estab- 



VIRUS PROTEINS — STANLEY 505 

lishing a difference were it not for the fact that the slime molds appear 
to grow without well-differentiated cell walls. The absence of a cell 
wall, therefore, need not necessarily mean that tobacco mosaic virus 
is nonliving. Tobacco mosaic virus protein appears to possess a 
definite solubility, and it might be expected that this might be used 
as a distinguishing characteristic. However, if an organism were 
sufficiently small you might expect it to be governed by the ordinary 
laws of physics and chemistry. Furthermore, this property is rela- 
tive, for if you move your point of reference to the inside of a whirling 
centrifuge the virus protein loses this property and settles out as 
would any bacterial suspension. Another point that may be con- 
sidered is respiration, for it is well known that nobody has been able 
to demonstrate that viruses respire, whereas it is usually possible to 
show that living things respire. However, even this point fails us, 
for we know that it is difficult, if not impossible, to demonstrate respi- 
ration in the cases of some living tilings, such as certain seeds or bac- 
terial spores. It is obvious that we can take up the supposed differ- 
ences and eliminate them one by one when considered individually. 
However, when we consider these differences collectively, one is not 
quite so certain, and I think you will agree with me that there is a 
tendency for a reasonable doubt as to whether viruses are really 
similar in all respects to organisms. This doubt becomes even 
stronger when we consider one additional factor, namely, the size 
of viruses. I have already pointed out that certain viruses are 
smaller than accepted protein molecules. We have always assumed 
that a certain degree of complexity was necessary for life. In its 
simplest form this complexity might conceivably be represented by 
the interplay of a very few, perhaps even two, molecules. It may 
appear very questionable whether or not the degree of complexity 
characteristic of living organisms can be woven into a single molecule. 
However, argument based on size alone is not valid over the whole 
range, for, if we consider vaccinia virus a molecule, we know that 
into an entity of the same size can be woven the degree of complexity 
under discussion, for the pleuro-pneumonia organism is just such an 
entity. Nevertheless, I think there must be a difference between 
entities, the properties of which may in one case be ascribed to the 
interplay of several molecules within a definite system and in the 
other case to a peculiar type of organization within one molecule, 
[t may be possible to weave into one large molecule a structure that 
may be responsible for properties which are quite similar to the prop- 
erties caused by the interaction of several different molecules in a 
living system. I think that we may conclude, therefore, that, 
although it is impossible to decide whether viruses are different 
from ordinary organisms on the basis of any one of the differences, 



506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

the collective picture strongly indicates that there is a difference be- 
tween viruses and ordinary organisms as we know them. 

It is interesting to speculate as to whether or not the fundamental 
difference is that in the virus proteins we have an example of the 
vital substance of protoplasm. The virus proteins isolated so far 
have been found to be nucleo-proteins having unusually high molecular 
weights. It may be possible that in this chemical combination of 
nucleic acid and high molecular weight protein we have sufficient 
organization within a single molecule to endow it with the lifelike 
properties that characterize it. Such an entity might be regarded 
as the simplest type of organism, an organism from which all extrane- 
ous material has been removed and which has become so highly 
parasitic that it can reproduce only under very special conditions. 
Green has already pointed out that an intracellular microbe might 
be expected to undergo a loss of function due to the assumption of 
such function by the surrounding protoplasm. Such retrograde 
evolution he states might progress to the point where only a single 
molecule remains, and this molecule would be expected to possess 
unusual properties but would be functionally complete only when 
immersed in protoplasm. We would, therefore, have an entity pos- 
sessing all the physical and chemical properties of a molecule and at 
the same time the potential properties of an organism, without it 
itself being a functionally complete organism. It is obvious that this 
description fits the virus proteins. It may be that there is something 
intermediate between such an entity and ordinary living organisms. 
Studies on some of the larger viruses such as vaccinia should settle 
this point. Whatever the outcome of these studies, it seems unlikely 
that they will alter our conception of the smaller viruses; henee we 
may proceed with our discussion of the virus proteins. 

It is interesting to speculate on the manner in which tobacco mosaic 
virus protein brings about the production of more of the same kind 
of molecules when placed in contact with the protoplasm of certain 
cells. This mechanism is of tremendous importance because it is 
possible that it or a similar one may be responsible for the production 
of all the specific protein molecules as well as other molecules within 
living cells. It may be considered to be the very basis of life. I 
think we may dismiss at once the mechanism by means of which cells 
divide and thus reproduce, for we are interested in a more fundamental 
mechanism, the one by means of which the cell grows until it is in a 
position for the second mechanism to operate. It seems unlikely to 
me that the basic mechanism is one in which the virus protein absorbs 
food, discards waste, grows and at some proper moment divides into 
two molecules after the manner of cells. A mechanism that I like to 
consider is one based on the surface forces which Dr. Langmuir has 
demonstrated so vividly in recent years and some of which he described 



VIRUS PROTEIITS STANLEY 507 

on Tuesday. You all laiow how readily you can induce crystalliza- 
tion of substances by merely introducing a tiny crystal of the material 
into a saturated solution. The atoms come out of the solution and 
line up in a fashion that is predetermined by the pattern presented 
in the form of the introduced crystal. In some of the complex silicates 
such as Na2Fe4Ali4B6Sii2069 you may have from five to ten different 
components present in the solution and yet they all arrange themselves 
according to the pattern that is presented to them. In some instances, 
this tendency to assume a definite arrangement is so strong that 
apparently it may occur without the addition of the pattern or crystal 
seed. In other instances, the arrangement or crystallization will not 
occur without the pattern first being present. Well do I remember 
the time at school when a certain compound was synthesized for the 
first time in this country. Despite repeated attempts under all kinds 
of conditions, the material could not be caused to crystallize. How- 
ever, when a small amount of the material in crystalline form, which 
had been obtained from abroad, was added, the compound synthesized 
in this country crystallized quite readily, and since then it has been 
possible to crystallize the material without knowingly adding seed 
crystals. We say that the laboratory has become "seeded," that 
small amounts of such crystals probably occur throughout the 
laboratory. Here, therefore, we have an example of an arrangement 
that was dependent upon the presence of a pattern and a demonstra- 
tion that chemically undetectable amounts of material are probably 
sufficient to serve as a pattern. The forces responsible for this 
orientation may appear mysterious, yet they are definite and specific 
and they are real. 

Now, let us consider first what may happen on the introduction of 
a virus protein molecule into a certain cell, and then consider whether 
or not we may interpret the growth of protoplasm in terms of this 
happening. It seems Hkely that in a living cell there exists a vast 
array of compounds ranging perhaps from salts and simple amino 
acids, through intermediate compounds such as carbohydrates and 
polypeptides, to complex compounds such as proteins. Consider 
whether the virus protein molecule is able through a characteristic 
structure and the surface forces that I have described to cause all the 
component parts to come from this storehouse of materials and to line 
up in orderly fashion alongside the pattern. If we may assume this 
degree of orientation, then I think we may assume that, inasmuch as 
the intact virus protein molecule represents a more stable form, there 
will be a mutual solvation of forces with the formation of the intact 
molecule which is then freed from its original pattern and ready to 
begin its own cycle. I have pictured this happening in a rather naive 
manner for the sake of simplification. Actually, the synthesis of pro- 
teins probably results from a series of interrelated chemical reactions 



508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

that are catalyzed by intracellular enzymes. In this connection it is 
interesting to consider that the final step to which I just referred may 
consist of chemical reactions catalyzed by the virus protein itself. It 
may be regarded as being similar to an ordinary enzymatic reaction 
except that in this case the intracellular reaction is catalyzed by the 
same kind of molecules that are introduced. It is obvious that for 
the successful operation of this mechanism there must be present in 
the protoplasm all the necessary component parts. If one or more is 
missing, the virus protein cannot be built up. This serves to explain 
the specificity of viruses, for a virus would be expected to reproduce 
only in protoplasm containing the component parts of the virus mole- 
cule introduced. There is some evidence that tobacco mosaic virus 
protein is built from such component parts and not from the large 
proteins normally built up in such cells, for this virus protein repro- 
duces itself in both Turkish tobacco and phlox plants, and it has been 
found by sensitive serological methods that the proteins normally 
existing in these plants are quite different. This is an indication 
that the virus protein is built up from smaller serologically inactive 
units that must be common to both plants. 

Now, if we may assume this mechanism for the reproduction of 
the virus proteins, may we not assume a similar mechanism for the 
production of all the proteins that are synthesized within the cell, and 
hence for the growth of protoplasm? We know that some virus pro- 
teins reproduce quite rapidly and others more slowly, hence there 
must in the first instance be a tendency for the reaction to proceed 
rapidly and in the latter instance for it to proceed more slowly. 
Whether this tendency be real or result from the relative lack of a 
given component, if it exists, it would, together with the mechanism 
that has been discussed, be sufficient to explain not only the various 
factors involved in the reproduction of the virus proteins but also the 
orderly manner of the growth of protoplasm. There could be explained 
in this manner the reproduction of virus proteins, their reproduction 
only in certain living cells, the rapid rate of reproduction in some cases 
and the slow rate in others, the change or mutation of one stram into 
one or more other strains, the immunity from other strains that results 
from infection with one strain and the failure of one virus to immunize 
against a different one. Furthermore, we see that the possibihty of 
synthesizing virus proteins in the absence of living cells is not denied us, 
for such synthesis should occur provided the necessary components 
are provided and the proper conditions are achieved. If we are ever 
able to synthesize virus proteins in the absence of living cells, then we 
shall have gone a long way toward the synthesis of protoplasm. 

I should, perhaps, remind you at this point that I am speaking of 
fancy and not of fact. I think it well occasionally to assemble all the 
facts at our disposal, to use them as a foundation and then to allow 



VIRUS PROTEINS — ^STANLEY 509 

our thoughts and fancy to proceed and lead us where they may into 
the unlaiown, disregardmg the absence of facts that so far we have 
been unable to wrest from nature. At worst, we may become imbued 
with erroneous impressions — and even they have occasionally been 
beneficial ; at best, we may secure ideas that will enable us to estabUsh 
as facts the very ones that gave rise to the ideas. Whatever may be 
your attitude with respect to this point, I think that you will agree 
with me when I say that the elucidation of the manner in which the 
virus proteins reproduce will serve to give us a clearer picture of the 
manner in which protoplasm grows. Because certain of the virus 
proteins are available in large amounts and lend themselves readily to 
experimentation, I think that we are now in excellent position to pur- 
sue with great expectation the problem of the reproduction of the 
virus proteins and eventually that more interesting problem concern- 
ing protoplasmic growth. 



MODERN MEDICINE— THE CROSSROADS OF THE 
SOCIAL AND THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES ' 



By Chakles Austin Doan, B. S., M. D., F. A. C. P. 



In acknowledging the honor you have done the section on medical 
sciences in permitting one of its members to serve as your president 
during the past year, may I say first of aU that we interpret your action 
as a recognition of the emergence of medical practice from an ancient 
and honorable art into a modem, dynamic science of health. Disease 
has existed on the earth as long as organic life has been known. The 
archeologist, the geologist, the anthropologist, the explorer, have aU 
contributed ajQfirmative evidence of this belief. The earliest inter- 
pretable record dates back some 4)^ million years according to the 
accepted geological calculation of time, and represents a form of 
parasitism — fossil snails in the act of feeding on crinoids, a species of 
sea lily. From that time on, as the fossil remains of the earth's 
earliest inhabitants unfold the story of life before the advent of man, 
there appears mute evidence of disease as revealed by skeletal abnor- 
malities—fractures, carious teeth, bone necroses — in the now extinct 
fishes and reptiles. The tsetse fly, today's deadly carrier of cattle 
plague and African sleeping sickness, has been identified in fossil 
formations dating back a million and a half years. 

Man's arrival on the scene seems to have been greeted by the same 
onslaught of disease that met the various forms of plant and animal 
life which preceded him. The "Java man," placed by anthropologists 
as the precursor of the human race with an estimated age of 500,000 
years, shows pathological exostoses of the femur. The "Piltdown 
man," with an estimated age of 100,000 years and considered the 
oldest human skeleton yet discovered, has an acromegalic skull. The 
"Neanderthal man," spanning 75,000 years of elapsed time, has sug- 
gested rickets to some anthropologists. 

The history and scientific beginnings of medicine extend back to the 
ancient Egyptians of the very first civilization of which we have 
written record, some 30 centuries before the rise of the better known 
Hippocratic school at Cos in Greece. The Smith Surgical Papyrus 
and the Ebers Medical Papyrus, ancient hieroglyphic records of the 

' Presidential address delivered before the Ohio Academy of Science, May 14, 1937. Reprinted by per- 
mission from The Ohio Journal of Science, vol. 37, No. 4, July 1937. 

511 



512 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

diagnosis and treatment of disease as practiced some 3,500 years 
B. C, carry recognizable descriptions of many diseases prevalent in 
the modem-day world. The observations of the beloved late Prof. 
Elliott Smith, who by 1930 had examined the remains of some 30,000 
ancient Egyptians and Nubians representing every period of the last 
60 centuries, and the microscopic studies by the late Marc Armand 
Ruffer of carefully restored and sectioned mummified tissues, each 
independently bear direct testimony to the diversity and similarity of 
human pathologic processes, then and now. 

Thus, from time immemorial man has dreamed and speculated and 
philosophized about the nature and the significance of life, and has 
shuddered and shrunk and fled from famine and war and pestilence. 
This amazing world in each succeeding epoch has presented an ever 
increasing variety of problems, which have challenged the best minds 
of each age. At the very extreme of complexity, and the last to be 
satisfactorily approached for solution on a rational scientific basis have 
been the problems of human health and disease. The true physician 
has ever stood at the crossroads, receiving the slowly and painfully 
accumulated facts from any and every scientific source, and has then 
appropriated, reinterpreted, and applied them in the alleviation of 
human misery and sufi'ering. As a result, like the shedding of a 
chrysalis, the basis for health was transformed at the turn of the cen- 
tury from a speculative, descriptive, cumbersome classification of dis- 
ease to an exact experimental science for the accumulation of verifiable 
facts about disease. Today, we are seeing the natural result of this 
metamorphosis in method and technique, derived from the basic natu- 
ral sciences, in a transfer of the major emphasis in medicine from empir- 
icism to mechanism — from the "cure" of disease to the ''prevention" 
of disease. One by one superstitions based upon error, or upon incom- 
plete knowledge, are giving way to more exact methods of procedure, 
until we may envisage the composite, ideal physician of the future as 
embodying an appreciation and a worldng knowledge of all of the 
intricacies of fact deriving from the social as well as from the physical 
sciences. 

If there is any lesson which we of this era should have learned from 
the past it is the basic necessity for cooperative effort. If the common 
problems which civilized man faces today are to be solved successfully, 
the cooperative intelligence of many minds, wherever existing, irre- 
spective of race, color, creed, or narrow sectarian viewpoint, must be 
focused sharply upon them. Peace — progress — our very existence are 
seriously threatened through failure to appreciate fully the universality 
of this fundamental principle — applied economically, socially, and 
politically, as well as scientifically. Medical leadership in recent years 
has perhaps recognized this challenge more clearly, and realized its 
sine qua non for survival more fully, than many in other walks of life. 



MODERN MEDICINE — DOAN 513 

Epidemic disease is no respecter of geographic and racial boundaries, 
or of economic, political, and social differences, and medical science 
has had to look to and embrace the intellects capable of solving its 
problems wherever they have appeared on the face of the earth. More- 
over, medical leaders everywhere cooperate in an international health 
cordon for the dissemination and application of this knowledge, as it 
becomes available. With transportation and intercommunication in 
the world today, such that a yellow-fever-carrying mosquito in an 
airplane wing on the west coast of Africa this morning, may tomorrow 
be either in continental Europe or South America, and mayhap the 
next day on our own eastern seaboard, one cannot evade the reality 
of the imminence of invasion by disease, even though there be some 
difference of opinion as to the immediate significance of such feats, with 
reference to other more obvious forms of invasion. 

We may agree, perhaps, then, that one of the most important func- 
tions being subserved by medical science in the present day is its exem- 
plification of the necessity for, and its demonstration of the ways and 
means of organization and administration toward, cooperative effort 
within the nation and between nations. I need only cite the White 
House Conference on Child Health and Protection during President 
Hoover's administration, which resulted in the pooling and critical 
analysis of our scant information in this basic field and the defining of 
objectives, which since have been methodically and intelligently and 
cooperatively pursued; or the activities during the past decade under 
the Research Committee of the National Tuberculosis Association, 
which has integrated and correlated the research programs in some 
14 universities, 3 research institutes, and 2 large pharmaceutical firms, 
directed toward the better understanding and control, by treatment 
and prevention, of this great white plague; or the diversified activi- 
ties and integrating functions of the National Research Council and 
the A. A. A. S., of which this Ohio Academy of Science is a worthy 
satelite, for the cross-fertilization of scientific ideas in the broadest 
sense; or the nation-wide programs for venereal disease and cancer 
control wliich are being inaugurated at the present time in this country 
after the successful mass application of present medical knowledge to 
these identical problems of disease in Britain and the Scandinavian 
countries; or the American, British, and League of Nations cooperat- 
ing committees on the study and control of chronic arthritis, represent- 
ing a group of crippling, painful, and economically hazardous diseases, 
wliich are increasingly challenging the health and happiness of civilized 
peoples ; or the first international conference on fever therapy held in 
New York City last month with official representatives from the Min- 
istries of Health of 16 countries; or the International Physiological 
Congress meeting in Boston 2 years ago, and the International Asso- 
ciation of Geographic Pathology meeting in Stockholm this summer 



514 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

with "anemia" as it affects different people in different parts of the 
world, the topic for discussion for the entire meeting; or, finally, the 
International Health Board under the Rockefeller Foundation, which 
through the years has led in the encouragement of the development 
and exchange of men and ideas in matters relating to world health 
problems. 

It may not be too late to hope, or too egotistical or remote for 
scientific groups, such as this Academy represents, to believe that 
many, if not all, of our present seemingly insurmountable economic and 
social problems would yield more readily and happily to human inge- 
nuity and intelligence, if our leaders and their respective followers were 
alike endowed with a larger share of their rightful heritage of normal 
mental and physical health. To that end all such gatherings as the 
present one contribute more or less directly, and when and if, and not 
until, the ideal integration of a genetically sound psyche with an opti- 
mum somatic and environmental background has been accomplished, 
will the essential keystone to the arch of human relationships have been 
provided. "The promise of things hoped for, the essence of things yet 
unseen," implied in the present material accomplishments of the 
human race, are alluring to contemplate but impossible to prophesy 
fully. 

The experience of the past half century, during which the spectacular 
acquisition and practical utilization of knowledge appertaining to the 
basic organization and reactions of matter has been paralleled by an 
equally active exploration of the form, composition, and functions of 
living cells and organisms, provides an increasing number of instances 
in which the two approaches have interacted to the mutual advantage 
of each. Studies of the applicability of X-rays to the problems of 
medicine were begun within a few months after the announcement of 
their discovery by the physicist Roentgen. Radium and radioactive 
substances have likewise been appropriated by physicians as rapidly 
as isolated and concentrated in needles and bombs for therapeutic 
purposes. Deuterium had hardly been isolated by Urey and confirmed 
by Johnson and other chemists until its biological significance was 
being explored, even before all of its chemical properties were known. 
The high-frequency, short-wave radio field was no sooner found to be 
the source of discomfort to men working within its immediate vicinity 
because of the production of fever and malaise, than Whitney of the 
General Electric Company recognized its potential therapeutic sig- 
nificance and at once enlisted the aid of physicians and bacteriologists 
and placed the resources of his laboratories at their disposal in the 
development of this approach to fever therapy. Kettering of the 
General Motors Research Laboratories followed promptly, designating 
himself a technical collaborator with the medical investigators in 
applying modern engineering methods to developing and adapting new 



MODERN MEDICINE — ^DOAN 515 

apparatus for experimentation and therapy. Last week a headline in 
the New York Times, reporting the meetings of the American Physical 
Society, read: "Progress is made in 'taming' neutron." The next sub- 
heading in capital letters only a little less prominent, read: "Physicists 
are told of Columbia work bringing nearer a powerful aid for Medicine." 
The X-ray, the gamma rays of radium, the high-frequency current and 
now the cyclotron. The physicist, the electrical engineer, and the 
physician have formed a Uaison in which each is mutually dependent 
upon the other. Just as the biologist has been directing the chemist 
as to which fractions were biologically "active" or physiologically 
significant — and therefore most important to analyze and synthesize 
in terms of human health — so the comparative value of the different 
physical agents developed in the physical laboratories is being ap- 
praised and evaluated by the medical investigator as rapidly as 
evolved. The artificial induction of therapeutic fever by various phys- 
ical means was inevitable after von Jauregg observed in his Vienna 
Sanatarium that general paralysis of the insane frequently improved 
following an intercurrent febrile infection; and, then, had the courage 
of his convictions, sufficiently, to induce fever reactions by inoculating 
selected patients under his care with the malaria Plasmodium. Keen- 
ness of observation was thus followed by inductive reasoning, the test 
of therapy was successfully applied, and, finally, the bateriological, 
cellular, and humoral mechanisms by which improvement is accom- 
plished are just now becoming clear. It is of peculiar interest and sig- 
nificance that the first efTective treatment for syphilis of the central 
nervous system was dependent upon the introduction of another dis- 
ease, malaria, which through the years, until Ross, McCallum, et al., 
discovered its cause and control, had been one of man's worst enemies, 
and still is in some parts of the world. The ingenuity of the physician 
is exemplified at its best in such an instance, where in discovering how 
to conquer one disease, he learned enough to make it his servant in 
conquering stUl another scourge of mankind. With the demonstration 
of the thermolability of the Treponema pallidum and of the gonococcus 
at human fever temperatures the importance of fever per se in these 
diseases has been emphasized and the development of physical means 
for the induction of fever followed naturally and inevitably. 

Another example of shrewd inductive reasoning based upon keen 
observation by a prepared medical mind occurred during the World 
War. Baer, an orthopedic surgeon with the American Expeditionary 
Forces, noted that injured soldiers evacuated some hours after severe 
injury and with wounds teeming with fly larvae, were less frequently 
found in profound shock and seemed to have a less stormy convales- 
cence, than men with similar but uninfested wounds. After a decade of 
pondering this observed fact, during which time children with infected 

114728—39 34 



516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

and crippling bone lesions returned to him constantly with recur- 
rences and metastatic disseminations, despite the most careful applica- 
tion of modern medical and surgical measures, he developed the cour- 
age of his convictions, Sohciting the aid of David Miller and other 
zoologists with an intimate knowledge of the life cycle of the maggot, 
methods for the reproduction of fly larvae under sterile precautions 
were developed. In the beginning, some enzyme or chemically active 
secretion was hypothesized as the active principle ; and now allantoin 
has been identified by the chemists as the effective substance and is 
replacing the original less esthetic maggot treatment of Mother Nature 
and the observant surgeon. 

Whipple, while studying the comparative value of different foods 
in the regeneration of hemoglobin in dogs following hemorrhage, dis- 
covered that liver was invariably most effective. Minot and Murphy, 
knowing of these experiments, then, observed that liver fed in sufficient 
quantities to human patients with pernicious anemia resulted in a 
prompt and sustained remission. Chemists promptly fractionated 
liver, and many other tissues, with the eventual isolation of the active 
erythrocyte maturation principle in a purified and simplified solution 
suitable for parenteral administration, thus saving the lives of many 
sufferers from this disease who would rather have died than eat a 
pound of liver daily for the remainder of their Uves. Only later came 
the keen analysis of Castle, which firmly estabHshed pernicious anemia 
as a deficiency disease dependent upon the exhaustion of an essential 
hormone in the stomach, and demonstrated that the erythrocyte 
maturation factor stored in the liver, normally, is the resultant of the 
interaction of the gastric hormone loiown as the "intrinsic factor" 
with an essential dietary or "extrinsic factor" contained in animal 
protein. 

One of the great modern advances in the science of medicine has 
been the realization that all disease is not necessarily the result of some 
external circumstance or bacterial invasion, and that there is a dis- 
tinction between "optimum" health and "apparent" health, i. e., 
between good, better, and best. Vitamine and endocrine researches 
in recent years have done most to exemplify the potential threat to 
health and well-being of deficiency in these vital elements. The chemist 
and the physician here combine their resources again in the funda- 
mental problems which underlie the deficiency states. Night blindness, 
ophthalmia, pyorrhea alveolaris, and urinary calculi suggest vitamin A 
insufficiency. Polyneuritis follows a vitamin B-1 deficiency, and 
pellagra with dermatitis, pigmentation of the skin, glossitis, stomatitis, 
and, at times, mental disturbances may be symptomaticof vitamin B-2 
complex deficiency. Easy bruising, oozing of the gums, or unexplained 
oedema may reflect a vitamin C inadequacy, and rickets and dental 
caries have largely disappeared where adequate vitamin D is available 



MODERN MEDICINE DOAN 517 

in the body economy. A lack of calcium may lead to hyperirritability 
of the neuro-muscular mechanism, tetany. A deficiency in iron leads 
to hypochromic anemia, and, if iodine is not available, the thyroid 
gland suffers. In this connection it is important to remember that 
interference with absorption or utilization of essential specific principles 
may be quite as significant in producing symptoms as their absence 
from the diet. 

Also a new principle in disease has been recognized very recently 
through the increasing knowledge of the interdependence and interac- 
tion of vital physiologic functions between widely separated and appar- 
ently unrelated organs. If the function of one is impaired the normal 
function of the other may lead to premature or untimely invalidism or 
death. As examples, may be cited the removal of the normal thyroid 
gland to recompensate the damaged heart — or the elimination of the 
spleen in selected instances where it acts to inhibit or make less 
effective the production of blood cells by the bone marrow. 

One of the most fascinating fields for speculation and further investi- 
gation at the present moment lies with the ultramicroscopic viruses. 
Since the original demonstration of the infectious properties of filter- 
passing sera from which neither aerobic nor anaerobic bacteria 
could be cultivated, the question of the ultimate nature of these agents 
has been warmly debated. Do they represent minute livmg and 
propagating protoplasmic bodies or are they more nearly comparable 
to chemical hormones or enzymes? Within the past few months 
Stanley, plant pathologist at the Rockefeller Institute, Princeton, has 
reported the isolation, purification, and chemical crystallization of the 
agent which produces mosaic disease in the tobacco plant. Thus, 
the possibility of an entirely new set of biological phenomena related 
to complex chemical molecules is suggested, and the differential criteria 
separating animate and inanimate molecular structures are reduced 
almost to the vanishing point. Many of the workers in this field at 
the present time, while accepting the nonviable nature of tobacco 
mosaic virus, still believe that other of the viruses may be the earliest 
and most primitive forms of living matter. Chemistry and biology 
must, therefore, again function together as handmaidens to pathology. 

The plant and the animal pathologist often serve as pioneers in 
exploring territories in which diseases common also to man exist. 
Laidlaw's investigations of distemper in dogs and his development 
of an immune vaccine and therapeutic serum, have given fresh impetus 
and direction to the search for an effective control of the common cold 
in man. And Shope's study of the swine influenza which appeared in 
1918, coincident with the world-wide spread of himian influenza, 
identified a common etiology for the two diseases through common 
immunologic reactions. Shope found, however, that in swine it required 
both a filterable virus and a bacterium closely similar to, if not identi- 



518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

cal with, the Pfeiffer or influenza bacillus to cause the disease, a prin- 
ciple similar to one originally postulated by David Smith for lung 
abscess. 

But the devotees of both the social and the natural sciences are 
facing still another problem of increasing significance and major 
importance today. Whereas famine and war and pestilence have 
acted jointly, and frequently coincidently, in the past in the role of 
Lord High Executioner for the race, and mediators of the law of the 
"survival of the fittest," it is no longer the physical so much as the 
social and economic forces attendant upon the transition from a slow- 
tempo agrarian to a high-tempo industrial civilization, which are pick- 
ing out the constitutionally unfit and eliminating the psych obiologi- 
cally inferior. The American disease, as Emerson, Bateman, and 
others have designated it, challenges the best eft'ort and skill of the 
modern physician and social worker. This disease camouflages 
under numerous and varied symptomatologies, but the common 
denominator of them all is the highly altered tension under which life 
is lived today, as contrasted with a few decades ago. The human 
body is a delicately adjusted, exceedingly complex mechanism with 
very definite limitations which vary constitutionally from individual 
to individual. The psyche is more important to its proper functioning 
than many of the organic processes which have received such careful 
and detailed study in the past. The central nervous system of man 
by the very nature of its integrating, governing, and association func- 
tions reflects this crowning achievement in organic evolution on the 
earth today. The material creations of this collective brain, never- 
theless, are not being "intelligently" directed and mastered and kept 
servile to objectives and ends, which would be for the best interests of 
the race as a whole. Annihilation awaits those who either individually 
or collectively fail to recognize the "handwriting on the wall." The 
social and natural sciences must together advance even more clearly 
and definitely into this domain of modern life and, with increasing 
factual data upon which to base judgments, make certain that a leader- 
ship fully conscious of the lurking dangers as well as the potential 
possibilities directs our destinies. 

Claude Bernard, one of the great physiologists of all time, had rare 
insight into the dominating motivation of those men of science he 
designated as the Truth Seekers: "Ardent desire for knowledge, and 
this knowledge really grasped, and yet always flying before them, 
becomes at once their sole torment and sole happiness. Those who do 
not know the torment of the unknown cannot have the joy of discov- 
ery, which is certainly the liveliest that the mind of man can ever feel. 
But, by a whim of Nature, the joy of discovery, so sought and hoped 
for, vanishes as soon as found. It is but a flash, whose gleam discovers 
for us fresh horizons toward which our insatiate curiosity repairs with 



MODERN MEDICINE — DOAN 519 

still more ardor. Thus, even in science itself, the known loses its 
attraction, while the unlmown is always full of charm." Or as Pascal 
put it: "We are in search never of things but of the search for things." 
The section of medical sciences in the Ohio Academy of Science 
salutes you, the underlying, fundamental sciences from which are 
synthesized new and more effective and essential answers to these 
problems of individual and community health. We acknowledge 
gratefully the past contributions upon which medical progress has been 
built, and solicit a continuing, ever more intimate, and productive 
liaison, in the best interests of — let us hope — a rising and not a waning 
civilization. 



HISTORY AND STRATIGRAPHY IN THE VALLEY OF 

MEXICO ' 



By George C. Vaillant 
Associate Curator of Mexican Archeology, American Museum of Natural History 



[With 13 plates] 

Indian Mexico has a past, but not a history. Thousands of mounds 
are scattered over the country, and in regions suitable for agriculture 
the plow constantly produces the shattered vessels and tools of van- 
ished people. The modern Mexicans also show their heritage from 
the past. Thirty-nine percent of them are pure Indian, and another 53 
percent are liberally infused with Indian blood. Even as in Italy, 
where both the citizens and the land which gives them life bear witness 
to the background of the Roman Empire, so in Mexico one feels and 
sees the all-pervading influence of the Indian. 

Yet where the Roman past is part of the historical instruction of 
every schoolboy, the history of Indian Mexico is to most of us a closed 
book, and even the professional scholar finds that most of its pages 
are blank. The reasons for the gaps in the historical record are 
threefold: The Europeanization of Mexico, with the consequent 
indifference to Indian matters; the conscious destruction of native 
documents as idolatrous in the days of the evangelization of the 
country; and the rarity in Mexico of Indian tribes with a knowledge 
of writing which would enable them to keep historical records. 

The history of Mexico, from its Conquest in 1519 to the Revolution 
of 1910, has emphasized the fortunes of European overlords and their 
relations to each other and the outside world. The overwhelming 
Indian preponderance in the population has been by no means bal- 
anced by similar representation in the economic and the social world. 
For 4 centuries, Europe, with all the guile and brute force of its state 
and mth all the spiritual powers of its church, has striven to eradicate 
from the Indian all traces of his native culture. Since the Revolution 
of 1910, there has been a conscious effort to transform the Indian 
population from serfdom into active participation in the social and 
economic life of the country. With this recognition of the Indian as 
a potential citizen there has come in Mexico a more general esteem for 

1 Reprinted by permission from The Scientific Monthly, vol. 44, April 1937. 

521 



522 AISTNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

the old Indian civilizations, knowledge of which had been kept alive 
through the ages by the untiring efforts of a handful of priests and 
scholars, chiefly Mexican, but including some Americans and Euro- 
peans. 

These men had interpreted and preserved the few first-hand native 
records that had survived the wholesale destructions of documents 
and religious paraphernalia. They had also collected and observed 
the material traces of native culture dug up by farmers and treasure 
hunters and had tried to identify the makers of these objects and the 
builders of these temples by interpretation of the native annals at 
their disposal. It became evident, as time went on, that there was 
vastly more material in the ground than could be accounted for by 
the tribes mentioned in the historical records. 

Thus in the beginning of the twentieth century, a subsidiary branch 
of history began to grow up, field archeology, which had for its goal 
the study of the Indian material culture, its history and development, 
and its interpretation in terms of human history. One of the chief 
aims of this branch of research was to try to establish the relative age 
of the different monuments and cultures. Fragmentary pottery was 
of the greatest aid in attaining this end. Forms and decoration 
changed gradually with the years, and each tribe or locality had its 
own individual expression. By cutting into ancient refuse heaps, 
where the material at the bottom was necessarily laid down at an 
earlier date than at the top, and by carefully studying the differences 
in shape, texture, and decoration of the fragments of pottery found, 
it was possible to discern the relative age of several ceramic groups. 
Later, by finding pottery associated with a building, the relative age 
of that structure could be determined. Furthermore, in Central 
America, it is quite common to discover that buildings are success- 
ively enlarged by filling in and adding to a previous construction, so 
that the stratigraphical process can be applied to architecture as 
well as to ceramics. 

While such stratigraphical sequences have been established for 
various parts of Mexico and Central America, the Valley of Mexico 
is the first where the archeological record is detailed enough to be 
compared to the historical and where the two lines of research com- 
plement and check each other. Let us examine this relationship, 
which is one of the primary ends of archeological research. 

The documentary evidence from the Valley of Mexico consists of 
two main types. First there were the records kept by the Aztecs 
and. their neighbors, a few of which escaped the wholesale destruc- 
tions ordered by the Spaniards. These consisted of a type of picture 
writing, not unlike a rebus, in which the picture of an object could 
represent, beside the object itself, the same sound with another 
meaning or as a syllable in another word. Personages and tribes were 



VALLEY OF MEXICO — VAILLANT 523 

represented in tliis way, while events were depicted pictorially. The 
dates of various incidents were also given in terms of a 52-year cycle, 
but no method of distinguishing one cycle from another was evolved. 
This system caused the same kind of confusion as if we were to date 
our history in terms of a century only, so that an event recorded as 
falling in "65" might mean 1065, 1365, or 1865. The Aztec picture 
records were imdoubtedly supplemented by chants or sagas, which 
gave detail and color to the simple annals set forth in the manuscripts, 
and some of the records have notes added at a later date in Spanish 
or Aztec which describe the native text. 

Besides these indigenous documents, there were also histories 
written by Spanish priests and educated Indians after the Conquest. 
These authors seem to have had access both to the oral traditions 
and the pictorial records. In most cases their original sources have 
disappeared or else survive in copies distorted by European draughts- 
manship. These later authors were often bewildered by the native 
method of dating, as would naturally be the case if one lacked a com- 
plete knowledge of the events of Aztec history. Thus, by confusing 
the various cycles, rulers are sometimes fantastically credited with 
160-year reigns. But in the main the native records are fairly com- 
plete from 1200 to the Conquest and one or two accounts, written 
after 1519 but based on native traditions, reach as far back as the 
seventh century. 

The history recorded for the Valley of Mexico begins with mytho- 
logical tales relating to the foundation of the world and to the presence 
on earth of gods and giants. Then follow accounts of the Toltecs, 
in which the supernatural is heavily involved. The lists of their 
rulers do not always agree, but there is strong evidence that the 
Toltecs actually existed, and the Toltec era is described as a golden 
age in Mexican history. 

Famine and the incursions of savage tribes, the Chichimecs, brought 
an end to the Toltec Empire in the twelfth century. One of these 
entities settled in Azcapotzalco and through intermarriage with the 
remnant Toltecs picked up enough of the earlier culture to achieve a 
sedentary life. At the end of the thirteenth century Quinatzin, the 
fourth of the Chichimec line, moved his court from Tenayuca to 
Texcoco; but insurrection broke out in his former dominion and 
thenceforth there was bitter rivalry for the control of the Valley of 
Mexico between Azcapotzalco and Texcoco. In the second quarter 
of the fourteenth century two groups of people from the Mixteca 
came to Texcoco bringing not only writing, but also the cult of the 
god Tezcatlipoca. A few years later the Tenochca, or Aztecs of 
Tenochtitlan, the modern Mexico City, along with several other 
groups, filtered into the valley and became tributary to the Tepanecs 
of Azcapotzalco. 



524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

At the close of the fourteenth century the Tepanec succeeded ui 
overthrowing the Texcocans, but their sway was short-Hved. In the 
second quarter of the fifteenth century, the deposed ruler of Texcoco 
raised a revolt, and enlisting the services of the Tenochcas or Mexico 
City Aztecs and the Tacubans, destroyed forever the political power 
of Azcapotzalco. These three city-states then assumed the leader- 
ship of the valley and by a series of conquests enlarged their power to 
cover great sections of southern and eastern Mexico. Gradually the 
Aztecs supplanted the Texcocans as the dominant political power in 
the league, but the cultural and intellectual leadership still remained 
with Texcoco. At the time of the Conquest the Aztec dominion was 
at its height, but the disaster in store for it at Spanish hands was but 
an acceleration of the seething hatred felt by the subject people who 
allied themselves speedily with the white invaders. 

This history, culled from documentary sources, resolves itself into 
several stages or periods: 

(1) The legendary period of the foundation of the world. 

(2) The Toltec Empire. 

(3) The Chichimec period. 

(4) The formation of the Texcocan kingdom. 

(5) The rise of the Aztec Empire. 

We must now see how this pattern compares with the sequence of 
cultures, derived by excavation. This latter process has been a 
long one, lasting over 25 years, and still is not complete. While the 
Department of Monuments of Mexico and the American Museum of 
Natural History have been most active, yeoman service has been 
done by the now-disbanded International School, the Stockholm 
Museum, and the University of Arizona. Now the point has been 
reached where a correlation can be made between the tribes of the 
valley and their material culture. 

Traces are found of five main culture levels, differing from each 
other in the form and decoration of their pottery, in the artistic 
styles of their stone and clay sculptures, and in their architecture. 
Through the study of the strata in the rubbish heaps, minor time 
stages can be distinguished within each culture group. 

The earliest traces of man were originally found beneath a lava 
flow at the south of Mexico, but careful stratigraphical analysis of 
rubbish heaps in the Guadalupe hills, northeast of Mexico City, 
where similar material was found, revealed a long history for these 
finds, which resolved themselves into the handiwork of two peoples. 
The earlier culture, named Copilco-Zacatenco, after the sites where 
first found, showed five stages of development, represented in 20-foot 
accumulations of refuse indicative of a long lapse of time. The general 
culture level was on a par with that of the more developed of our 
North American Indian tribes. The later finds, called Cuicuilco- 



VALLEY OF MEXICO — VAILLANT 525 

Ticoman, could be divided into three time stages, derived from refuse 
heaps that, although deep, could not compare to the earlier deposits. 
In the Cuicuilco-Ticoman culture there were to be seen evidences of 
a considerable advance in handiwork, for not only were pottery, 
figurines and stone tools better made and in greater variety than in 
the preceding periods, but also the presence of mounds and unques- 
tionable representations of gods indicated the beginnings of a for- 
malized religious system. The wide geographic distribution of this 
culture shows that these remains were the handiwork of an important 
and populous tribal group. 

The third horizon is marked by the finds made at the great pyramid 
city of San Juan Teotihuacan, northeast of Mexico City. While the 
earliest of the five periods tentatively defined shows affiliations with a 
branch of the Cuicuilco-Ticoman culture, the pottery and figurines 
present a rapid advance in technique and artistic value. Designs are 
often derived from ceremonial motives and testify that already that 
ritualistic preoccupation which so characterizes Central American 
civilization had taken form. Mighty pyramids and elaborate palaces 
give evidence of a closely knit social organization able to draft man- 
power to achieve such ends, whUe excellent stone sculptures indicate 
good craftsmen and trade with adjacent cultures. The last phase of 
this civilization is found at Azcapotzalco, apparently after Teotihuacan 
had been abandoned. Figm-ines were made in molds, suggesting a 
curious use of mass production to satisfy the needs of mass religion, 
but architectural remains at Azcapotzalco reveal none of the grandiose 
qualities of Teotihuacan. 

These first three culture groups have shown a slow development 
that reaches a peak in the civilization of Teotihuacan. The artistic 
forms and styles do not evolve progressively, but rather in jerks, as 
one tribe seems to have driven out another. The most violent change 
occurs with the introduction of the fourth culture period. Here, at 
San Francisco Mazapan, a simple complex of human handiwork is 
found overlying the Teotihuacan remains. Wliile sporadic pieces, 
presumably obtained by trade, attest to the presence of relatively 
high civilizations elsewhere, the bulk of the material reveals little 
evidence of ritualistic, social, or artistic advancement. By studying 
the traded vessels, connections are obtained with a series of other 
peoples, some of high and some of low culture, some inhabiting the 
Valley of Mexico and others as far away as Yucatan. It is as though 
with the collapse of the Teotihuacan civilization, a number of other 
tribes had risen to power and filtered into the countryside. 

The last culture stage constitutes the articles of household and cere- 
monial use, the sculptures, and the architecture found in places known 
to have been occupied by the Aztecs. One very characteristic ware 



526 Al^NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

may be divided into six periods, while other local forms and decora- 
tions reflect the presence of city-states mentioned in the chronicles. 

The six Aztec pottery periods may also be grouped into larger units. 
The first period has been found in quantity at only one site in the 
valley, Culhuacan, and stylistically these ceramics show aflfiliations 
with Cholula and the Mixteca, and, by trade pieces, with Mazapan. 
The second and third periods are closely united, and only minor 
differences in their coarse style of draughtsmanship distinguish them. 
The fourth and fifth periods produced highly conventionalized designs 
that are very similar, but many highly decorated polychrome wares 
attest to a wide trade. The last period styles evolve from the pre- 
ceding and a new element of naturalistic decoration also appears. 

Here, then, is the logical starting point for a correlation between the 
archeology of the valley and its documentary history. If the six 
ceramic periods could be tied in with the annals of the Aztec, then 
there would be a fairly secure basis for testing the vaguer portions of 
the valley's past. To this end a curious custom of the Aztec gave us 
a very good lead. 

The Aztecs at the close of each of their 52-year cycles broke all their 
household utensils and put out their fires. Then they refurnished 
their houses and made new equipment. Presumably the temples 
and sacred buildings underwent a similar renovation. After midnight 
on the last day, a new fire was kindled on a hill outside of Mexico, and 
runners with torches distributed this flame to all the hearths in the 
valley, while every one rejoiced that life was to continue for another 
52-year span. The native chroniclers record this practice punctili- 
ously, for the Mexican calendar system was a sacred almanac for 
governing men's lives and served only secondarily as a means of 
recording time. 

Keflections of this ceremony have been found in excavations around 
Mexico City, where broken pottery and idols were found in too great 
quantity to have been the result of accidents. Ancient temples, in 
which the successive additions give the nested eflect of a Russian doll, 
also suggest a further application of this practice. 

One of these cychcal dumps yielding pottery of the fifth Aztec style 
we uncovered in the spring of 1936 at the power plant of Nonoalco in 
the heart of Mexico City. A normal refuse heap of the sixth and latest 
style lay above the ceremonial deposit. Since this latest type of Aztec 
pottery occasionally shows such traces of Spanish influence as glazed 
surfaces and European designs, it must have been in vogue at the 
time of the Spanish penetration of Mexico subsequent to 1519. There- 
fore we had good basis for assuming that the lower layer of the fifth 
period represented the destruction in connection with the last New 
Fire Ceremony before the conquest, which was celebrated in 1507. 
Moreover, at Chiconauhtla, a frontier town of the Texcocan domimon. 



VALLEY OF MEXICO — VAILLANT 527 

we found another ceremonial dump of this same fifth Aztec style under 
circumstances which proved it to have been made at the end of the 
occupation there. 

To strengthen our hypothesis we found two dumps of the fourth 
Aztec ceramic period, one at Chiconauhtla and another in Texcoco 
itself, an occurrence which would suggest the celebration of the New 
Fire Ceremony 52 years previous, or in the year 1455 (1507-52=1455). 
In one of the earher buildings at Chiconauhtla, we came across another 
such dump composed of pottery of the third Aztec period, which, if our 
hypothesis was correct, would represent the cyclical destruction of 
1403. 

The second Aztec pottery stage was obtained from a low stratum of 
a normal refuse mound at Chiconauhtla, so that while we have no 
definite evidence that this earlier stage should span another 52-year 
period, we have some right to assume it was made between 1299 and 
1351. Furthermore, the first Aztec period, as we have said, is found in 
quantity at only one site in the valley, Culhuacan, and may well be 
contemporaneous with the Mazapan culture described above as repre- 
senting the fourth epoch in the development of civilization in the valley. 

According to our reckoning, then, the Period 6 style, from 1507 to 
the Conquest, represents the last days of the Aztec Empire. Pottery of 
Period 5, which was made between 1455 and 1507, is widely distributed 
as befits the domination of the Aztec League. The method of decora- 
tion in vogue in Period 4, 1403-1455, is strongly represented at the 
palace of Nezualcoyotl, the great Texcocan ruler, and at Texcoco 
itself. At this time Texcoco rather than Tenochtitlan led in sump- 
tuousness and splendor. The trade wares suggest tribute from the 
conquests of that era and the clay idols reproduce the wide variety of 
gods in the Mexican pantheon. 

Pottery from Period 3, 1351 (?)-1403, is scantily represented at 
Tenochtitlan, which in this period was a weak tributary to Culhuacani 
and the Tepaneca of Azcapotzalco, but this style, like that of Period 
2, 1299 (?)-1351 (?), is found in the other valley centers. During the 
fourteenth century as we have seen, the Tepanecs, Texcocans, and 
Culhuas held the leadership of the Valley of Mexico, and the pottery 
attributable to this period is most commonly found in the towns 
under their dominion. 

Confirmatory evidence of the reflection of time in ceremonial prac- 
tice is yielded by the pyramid of Tenayuca, where seven buildings 
are found superimposed. The last reconstruction presumably marks 
the ceremonies of 1507, the next two in the same style, those of 1455 
and 1403. The architecture of the fourth (1351) is transitional to 
two more primitive pyramids possibly representing the ceremonies 
of 1299 and 1247 which corresponds very well to the early thirteenth 
century date given to the founding of the Chicimec kingdom in Azca- 



528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

potzalco. The break from the primitive to the regulation Aztec 
style of architecture accords well with the historical data, which 
describe Qumatzin's becoming civilized and moving to Texcoco in 
1298 and the arrival of Mixtecs and other tribes in 1328. A resem- 
blance, too close to be entirely coincidence, exists between the tradi- 
tion of the Mixtecs having brought knowledge of writing in 1328 and 
the Period 2 and 3 style of decoration which seems based more upon 
the fluid principle of writing than the previous labored method of 
painting designs in geometric fashion. 

We have traced our way to the last half of the thirteenth century. 
Our records have become very hazy, and we now meet the Mazapan 
culture, the fourth level in the valley. The chronicles tell of the 
incursions of the Chichimecs who brought an end to the Teotihuacan 
culture some time in the twelfth century. We can rely no longer on 
ceremonial dumps, but we can achieve a relative dating in another 
way. Two trade wares are found in the Mazapan culture, Plumbate, 
a natural glazed pottery perhaps made in Salvador, and Fine Orange, 
which is common on the Isla de Sacrificios in Vera Cruz. Both these 
wares are frequently found in Chichen Itza in refuse of the Mexican 
period, which began about 1200 A. D. and lasted until 1458. That 
the Mazapan culture flowered in the thirteenth century seems ex- 
tremely probable both because of its stratigraphical position below 
the Aztec-Texcocan material remains and above those of Teotihuacan, 
and because of the trade pottery which ties in with thirteenth century 
refuse heaps at Chichen Itza in Yucatan. The makers must then be 
some branch of the Chichimec immigrants, who, arriving in Mexico 
during this period, seem to have assumed distinctive tribal names 
even as, in adopting a sedentary life, they occupied fixed places of 
residence. 

Following our method of elimination there seems no reasonable 
doubt that the Toltecs were the makers of the Teotihuacan civiliza- 
tion, a thesis which is supported by a great deal of legendary evidence. 
The long span of the 700-1200 A. D. dates assigned by some to the 
Toltec Empire agrees well with the traditional evidence and the re- 
tarded cultural development one would expect of people who could 
not borrow but had to invent each material and cultural innovation. 
Furthermore, this hypothetical dating is roughly substantiated by 
the discovery of the Swedish archeologist, Linne, who found, in a 
Toltec building on the outskirts of Teotihuacan, Peten Maya trade 
pottery like that associated with the dated Maya monuments {circa 
433-889). 

While the historical position of the Valley of Mexico Toltecs seems 
to be fairly well established by the correlation of archeological and 
historical data, there is still confusion attendant to the cultural iden- 
tification of people called by the same name in other districts of 



VALLEY OF MEXICO — VAILLANT 529 

Mexico. Further research should clear up the identity of these 
tribes, as either colonists driven out of the valley or outlying branches 
of the same group who retained their tribal organization although 
modifying their culture, or perhaps people completely different cul- 
turally and tribally who were given this name as a generic distinction, 
even as the discoverers of America called its inhabitants Indians, 

With this final identification, connection between traditions and 
archeology ceases, so that we cannot identify the makers of the 
Cuicuilco-Ticoman and Copilco-Zacatenco cultures, often grouped 
under the term "Archaic." True, the mythology records giants as 
inhabiting the earth before the advent of the Toltecs, but the skeletons 
found in graves of these periods give no evidence of extraordinary 
size. It would be tempting to align with mytliical destructions of 
the world the rise in lake level which affected the Zacatenco culture 
or the lava flow from the Pedregal which surrounded the ruins of the 
Cuicuilco pyramid. As these successive destructions were by jaguars, 
wind, fire, and water, the order is wrong for such an interpretation 
of the geological disturbances affecting the early cultures, but it is 
possible that a vague folk memory of such events may have been 
incorporated in the myths. 

The dating of these early cultures is impossible in an absolute sense, 
but, relatively, some estimate may be made. The geologists all agree 
that the lava flow is recent, but their computations of 2,000 to 8,000 
years are meant to be taken in the geological sense of extreme youth 
instead of the historical sense of great age. There is some evidence 
that the Ticoman-Cuicuilco culture is partially contemporaneous 
with Teotihuacan. It is also possible to compare the accumulations 
of rubbish at Zacatenco and Ticoman with those of a site in New 
Mexico, Pecos, the occupation of which is accurately known in years 
by means of the tree ring method of dating. Dividing the number of 
years by the greatest depth of continuously deposited debris at Pecos, 
one gets a ratio of 78 years to the meter. Applying this computation 
to the deepest refuse heap at Ticoman, one finds 286 years of accumula- 
tion, and to the thickest middens of the Copilco-Zacatenco culture, 787 
years. Perhaps a thousand years is excessive, so that computing on 
the basis of the deepest bed which shows continuous occupation by 
both cultures, one arrives at nearly 600 years for the total length of 
habitation. 

Rough and inaccurate as these computations are they indicate that 
the Valley of Mexico was inhabited for a long time before even the 
dimmest historical records, and that the earliest remains so far 
recovered were made in the first centuries before the Christian Era. 
However, these early people were by no means primitive. Indeed 
they were on a par already with our modern Pueblo, and there are 
many stages of culture to be discovered and analyzed before we can 
say we have traces of the earliest man in Central America. 



530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

This article has endeavored to sketch one phase of historical research 
on the past of Mexico. A major problem has been to bridge the gap 
between the peoples who are identified by Spanish and Indian docu- 
mentary records and those who are known to us only through the 
ruins of their buildings and the broken elements of their material cul- 
ture which have survived. While at times it must seem as though 
the archeologists labor to make bricks wdthout straw, yet the results 
of the Valley of Mexico research prove that it is possible to formulate 
a history with the meager data provided. In Yucatan, Guatemala, 
and Oaxaca, similar methods have sketched the main outlines of his- 
torical development. Even if the history thus obtained discloses 
little or nothing of the life of the individual, it does throw abundant 
light on the steps by which man achieves his artistic development and 
economic progress. The lesson is constantly driven home that greater 
than man is the sum total of his achievements. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Vaillant 



Plate 1 




Types of stratigraphicau Excavation in the Valley of Mexico. 

Top: Lift: Deep pit at El Arbolillo, Federal District, Mexico. The earliest discovered figurine types from the 
Valley of Mexico were discovered at the base of this trench. Right: Cleaning out a canal in the Nonoalco 
District of Me.xico City. This shallow ditch was filled with vessels discarded in the cyclical destruction 
of 1507. 

Middle: Excavation in the Nonoalco District. 

Bottom: Left: Peeling layers of refuse at Zacatenco, D. F. This was the source of the first stratigraphical 
series defined by the American Museum of Natural History. Right: Dissecting an Aztec residential struc- 
ture at Chiconauhtla, State of Mexico. 





a be 

03 03 

a> 

o ® 
u u 

O to 

■3 
US 

2 3 

• in« 
0-? - 

3 »"=■ 

■^ol 
■gao 

O J, OJ 



M U O 

w an 



C3 © >, 






OS o 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Vaillant 



Plate 3 




Pottery Vessels from Earliest Copilco-Zacatenco Horizon. 



Smithsonian Repwrt, 1938.— Vaillant 



Plate 4 




FIGURINES (Type C3a) From Earliest Copilco-Zacatenco Culture Layer. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Vaillant 



Plate 5 




SPECIMENS From the Archaic Cultures. 

Top: Lejt: Mother and child from Cuernavaca, Morelos. Center: Pyramid of Cuicuilco, D. F., note the lava 

encroaching on the mound. Right: Figurine, Cuernavaca, Morelos. 
Middle; Left: Large hollow figurine, Cuernavaca, Morelos. Right: Head, Zacatenco, D. F. 
Bottom: Pottery vessels of the Cuicuilco-Ticoman culture, Ticoman, D. F. 



Smithsonian Repcrt, 1938. — Vaillant 



PLATE 6 









Chart Showing Nature of Material From the Toltec Culture. 

First row: Fresco from Teotihuacan, showing people involved, in a ritualistic ceremony. 

Second row: Reconstruction of the Pyramid of the Sun at Teotihuacan, after Gamio. 

Third row: Pottery vessels, Toltec culture. 

Fourth row: Successive stages of figurine manufacture in the Toltec culture. The last two are mold-made. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Vaillant 



Plate 9 












Chart Showing Archeological Material From the Chichimec Cultures. 

Top row: Historical picture writings relating to period. Left: Chichimec hunter. Center: Aztecs setting 
forth on their wanderings. Right: Eight tribes who settled in and around the Valley of Mexico 

Second row: Successive stages in the construction of the Temple of Tenayuca which epitomizes the architec- 
ture of the Chichimec and Aztec periods. 

Third row: Pottery styles of Mazapan, Coyotlatelco, and Aztec I type which may eventually be correlated 
with some of the tribes shown in top row, right. 

Fourth row: Figurines of Coyotlatelco type. 

Fifth row: Figurines of Mazapan type. 




Q-' en 




Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Vaiilant 



PLATE 1 1 




1. Temple of Cholula. puebla 
Beneath this large adobe platform is a complex of buildings of the Toltec period. 




2. Model of the Temple at Tenayuca, D. f. 

Showing successive renovations made in connection with the renovation ceremonies at the beginning of 
calendar cycles. The six buildings shown might correspond to structures made in 1507, 1455, 1403, 1361, 
1299, 1247. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Vaillant 



PLATE 12 







CHART SHOWING ARCHEOUOGICAU MATERIAL FROM THE AZTEC CULTURE. 

First row: Scenes from historical picture manuscripts. 1, Arrival of nations with the knowledge of writing 

in 1325; 2, New Fire Ceremony of 1403: 3, New Fire Ceremony of 1455; 4, New Fire Ceremony of 1507; 5, 

the tailing of Tenochtitlan (Mexico City) in 1519. 
Second row: Successive stages in the architecture of the Temple at Tenayuca, corresponding perhaps to the 

renovations of 1403, 1455, and 1507. 
Thirdrow: First three: Aztec pottery types (II, Ilia, Illb) found in the cyclical dumps for 1403, 1455, and 1507. 

Fourth: Pottery type (IV) made from 1507 up to the Conquest. 
Fourth row: First two: Aztec figurines made prior to 1403. Last four: Aztec figurines made between 1403 

and the Conquest. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Vaillant 



PLATE 13 




Aztec pottery Types. 

Top Trichrome vessels found in a 1403 cyclical dump at Chiconauhtla. 

Middle: Right: Trade bowl found in 1.507 dump at Chiconauhtla. Left: Local trichrome bowl found in the 

1507 dump at Chiconauhtla. 
Bottom: Left: Orange-on-red bowl with black outline from Nonoalco. Right: Black-on-orange dishes from 

Nonoalco. 



THE FOLSOM PROBLEM IN AMERICAN 
ARCHEOLOGY ' 



By Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology 



[With 15 plates] 



The so-called Folsom problem has assumed an important place in 
American archeology during the last decade. It is outstanding in 
popular interest, and in scientific circles it is regarded as significant. 
This is due to the fact that it is closely coupled to the question of 
early man in the New World. At several places in New Mexico and 
Colorado implements have been found in association with bones of 
extinct animals and in deposits suggestive of geologic antiquity. 
These discoveries help push the date of occupation farther back into 
the past and have encouraged renewed consideration of the length of 
time that man has been in America. The more important sites where 
such finds have been made are those near Folsom, between Clovis and 
Portales, and in the Guadalupe Mountains in New Mexico; and at 
the Lindenmeier ranch and Dent in Colorado (fig. 1). 

The first in the series — that which gave its name to archeological 
remains of the type — is on a small intermittent tributary of the Cimar- 
ron River, in a little valley named Dead Horse Gulch, several miles 
west of Folsom, Union County, N. Mex. It lies below the eastern rim 
of Johnson Mesa and was discovered in the summer of 1925 by local 
residents. Fred J. Howarth and Carl Schwachheim of Raton, N. 
Mex., reported the find to J. D. Figgins, then director of the Colorado 
Museum of Natural History at Denver, now director of the Isaac W. 
Bernheim Foundation, Louisville, Ky. Bones sent to the museum 
showed that the remains were those of an extinct species of bison and 
of a large deerlike m. ember of the Cervidae. Prospects for fossil 
material were so promising that the Colorado museum sent a party 
to the site in the summer of 1926. Bearing in mmd an occurrence 2 
5^ears previous when another group from the museum was digging 
near Colorado, Tex., and uncovered two chipped-stone objects in 

1 Reprinted, by permission, with some revision, the addition of new information, illustrations, and ref- 
erences, from Early Man, as depicted by leading authorities at the International Symposium, the Academy 
of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, March 1937. J. B. Lippincott Co., 1937. 

531 

114728 — 39 35 



632 ANNUAL EEPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



WYOMING I NEBRASKA 



L I 



UTAH 



UA/D£NM£/£R 3/T£ 

O D£/^r 

COLORADO 



V- 



CO 

< 

z 

< 



+- ^.— r„-,^- 



G I O K L A 
FOLSOM 



ARIZ. , NEW MEXICO 



CLOI//S o| 
PORTA L£S ^ 



GC/AO/ILUP£ Mrs. 
O 



MEXICO 




TEXAS 



FiGUBE 1.— Locations of principal Folsom sites. 



THE FOLSOM PROBLEM ROBEETS 533 

association with an extinct bison, but failed to preserve their evidence 
in acceptable form, Mr. Figgins gave explicit instructions for the work- 
men to watch carefully for such artifacts at the Folsom pit. Parts 
of two finely chipped projectile points were recovered from the loose 
dirt during the excavations (pi. 1, fig. I, a, b, c). Near the place 
where one of them was picked up, a small triangular piece of stone was 
found embedded in the clay surrounding an animal bone. This 
fragment was left in the block of earth and sent to the laboratory at 
Denver. When the dirt was carefully cleaned away from the stone 
it was noted that it was of the same material as one of the points. 
Close examination showed that it was actually a part of the point as 
the two pieces fitted together (pi. 1, fig. 2). This indicated a definite 
association between man-made objects and an extinct bison. Mr. 
Figgins was greatly impressed by the find and reported it to a number 
of archeologists and general anthropologists. The information was 
skeptically received in most quarters, and in several instances there 
was a definitely hostile attitude toward suggestions that the occur- 
rence might be of importance and worthy of further investigation. 

The Colorado Museum again sent a party to Folsom in the summer 
of 1927 and had the good fortune to find additional points. One of 
these was noted before it was completely uncovered, and work was 
stopped. Telegrams were sent to various institutions inviting them to 
send representatives to view the point in situ. Dr. Barnum Brown, of 
the American Museum of Natural History, New York, and the writer 
responded. Arriving at the quarry (pi. 2, fig. 1), he found Director 
Figgins, several members of the Colorado Museum board, and Dr. 
Brown. The latter had just uncovered the point which became the 
pattern and furnished the name for the type. There was no question 
but that here was important evidence. The point was still embedded 
in the matrix between two bison ribs (pi. 2, fig. 2). In fact, it has 
never been removed from the block, which is now on exhibit in the 
Colorado Museum of Natural History at Denver. The writer re- 
turned to Raton and telegraphed Dr. A. V. Kidder, then associated 
with Phillips Academy, Andover, now with the Cainegie Institution 
of Washington, and urged that he also visit the site. Dr. Kidder, who 
was engaged in excavations at Pecos, N. Mex., arrived 2 days later. 
After the whole situation had been studied carefully, it was agreed 
that the association could not be questioned nor explained away by 
any of the customary arguments against the authenticity of such an 
occurrence. That winter Dr. Brown, Dr. Kidder, and the writer 
reported on the finds at the annual meeting of the American Anthro- 
pological Association at Andover, Mass. In spite of the convincing 
nature of the evidence, most of the anthropologists continued to doubt 
the validity of the discovery. 



534 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

The American Museum of Natural History and the Colorado 
Museum cooperated at the site in 1928. Dr. Barnum Brown headed 
the expedition, taking charge of the actual excavations, and several 
graduate students in anthropology under the supervision of Dr. Clark 
Wissler, head curator of anthropology at the American Museum, 
assisted hj making a survey of the surrounding area in search of 
caves, rock shelters, or camp sites where the makers of the points might 
have lived. The survey had negative results, but the diggers were 
more fortunate. Additional bison skeletons were found witli accom- 
panying points, and numerous speciaUsts — archeologists, paleontolo- 
gists, and geologists — went to check the evidence. Consensus was. 
that the finds were a reliable indication that man v/as present in the 
Southwest at an earlier period than formerly supposed and that they 
constituted one of the most important contributions j^et m.ade to 
American archeology. Most of the critics of previous years became 
enthusiastic converts and endorsed the Folsom materials. While 
the finds and their establishm^ent as authentic were significant, of even 
greater consequence w\^s the fact that Folsom paved the way to more 
considerate and unbiased studies of other discoveries indicative of an 
earlier New World occupancy and made it possible for those interested 
in that subject to continue their investigations without inviting the 
stigma of charlatanry. An ever increasing tendency to condemn 
arbitrarily any occurrence even slightly suggestive of antiquity gave 
way to the more reasonable attitude of letting the facts decide the case. 

The points associated with the bison bones differed from the ordi- 
narj^ types scattered over that portion of the Southwest. They are 
leaf-shaped blades characterized by a longitudinal fluting on each face. 
One of the examples found in 1926 (pi. 1, fig. 1, a, b), at first glance 
appears to have a channel on one side only, but that is due to the fact 
that the basal portion is missing and that the break occurred just 
above the end of the groove. This feature is apparent when the 
photograph (pi. 1, fig. 1, b), is examined closely. In addition to the 
channels, the points have a secondary chipping along the edges that 
bespeaks a highly developed stone-fiaking technique. Owing to the 
proximity of the site to the town of Folsom, these points were generally 
referred to as Folsom points, and later were definitely so named by 
Mr. Figgins. Because the site represented the scene of a kill rather 
than a camp, other artifacts were scarce, a portion of a nondescript 
flake knife and a generahzed type of scraper being the only additional 
forms; hence, for a tune the point was the only implement recognized 
as Folsom. 

The layer of bones and implements at Folsom were in a deposit of 
dark clay containing lenses of gravel and small concretions of lime. 
This alluvial stratum probably represents an old bog or water hole 
that was the principal reason for the presence of the animals. At the 



THE FOLSOM PROBLEM — ROBERTS 535 

conclusion of his work Dr. Brown emphasized the fact that the sedi- 
ments overlying the bone bed were highly restratified earth of a nature 
indicating great antiquity. He concluded that they belonged to the 
close of the Pleistocene and placed the age of the remains at the end 
of that period. Some of the experts support this opinion. Others 
believe that the site should be considered Early Recent rather than 
Late Pleistocene, and there the matter rests today .^ 

The second important New Mexican area contains several sites. 
It lies approximately 160 miles southeast of Folsom, between Clovis 
and Portales, not far from the Texas-New Mexico boundary (fig. 1). 
The sites were reported to Dr. Edgar B. Howard of Philadelphia in 
the summer of 1932 by A. W. Anderson and George Roberts, of Clovis. 
Dr. Howard visited the area at that time and returned again in No- 
vember of the same year, when a road-construction company, digging 
for gravel, exposed a layer of bluish clay containing quantities of 
animal bones and indications of human occupation. As a result of 
that inspection he planned a series of investigations for the summer of 
1933. This began as a joint undertaking of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences and the University of Pennsylvania Museum. Later in the 
season Dr. John C. Merriam, president of the Carnegie Institution of 
Washington, visited the excavations and became so enthused over the 
prospects that he arranged for the California Institute of Technology 
to send a party, under Dr. Chester Stock, to cooperate in the work. 
Dr. Howard returned in the summer of 1934 in company with Dr. 
Ernst Antevs who studied the physiography of the region in an en- 
deavor to date the sites. Dr. Howard again led a party to the Clovis 
sector in the summer of 1936. This was a joint project of the Acad- 
emy of Natural Sciences and the Carnegie Institution of Washington. 
The work was continued in 1937 under the auspices of the University 
of Pennsylvania Museum and the Academy of Natural Sciences, with 
Dr. Howard acting in a supervisory capacity and John L. Cotter in 
direct charge of the excavations. 

The Clovis-Portales area is part of the Staked Plains, the old 
Llano Estacado of the Spanish explorers. In this district the flatness 
of the terrain is broken only by sand dunes rising along the edges of 
shallow depressions. These dry basins occur in a series that extends 
in a general east-southeasterly direction about midway between Clovis 
and Portales. Evidence points to a former period of heavy precipita- 
tion. At that time the basins were more or less permanently filled 
with water. Subsequent desiccation reduced them to mere water 
holes. They eventually dried up entirely and were filled with drift 
sand. Recent wind and water action have left them in varying 
stages of erosion. The sand has been whipped up into dunes along 

> For more detailed information on the Folsom site, see Brown, 1929; Bryan, 1937; Cook, 1927; Figgins, 1927; 
Roberts, 1935. 



536 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

the northeastern borders of many of them, exposing a hard bluish-gray 
deposit. These constitute what are known locally as "blow-outs" 
(pi. 3, figs. 1 and 2). In some the bluish layer has been cut down to a 
harder, underlying stratum of caliche, leaving shelves or benches 
around the edges of the basins and "erosion islands" scattered through 
the middle. Excavations in these shelves and islands yield animal 
bones, stone artifacts, some bone tools, charcoal, and ashes. Many 
of the bones show the effects of fire, and a large number appear to 
have been cut and split for the marrow. In numerous cases there is 
a definite association between the bones and man-made objects. 
The bones represent an extinct species of bison and the mammoth 
(pi. 4, fig. 1). Hence, there is Uttle question but that in this region 
man was contemporary with both animals. Camel and horse bones 
are present in lower levels antedating the human period of occupancy. 

Implements found there comprise projectile points, various kinds 
of scrapers, rough-fiake knives, knives, blades, gravers, bone tools of 
unidentified function and two sharpened bones that may have served 
as spear points. Some of the stone projectile points are significant 
because they are comparable to the fluted examples from the original 
Folsom quarry. Others do not have as pronounced channels, and 
some do not have the feature at all. The latter correspond to a much 
disputed form called the Yuma. The presence of the fluted forms is 
an indication of some cultural relationship between the makers of 
these implements and those from the Folsom pit. The meaning of 
the so-called Yuma specimens is not clear. They may belong to the 
Folsom implement complex, but it is possible that they represent 
trade objects or an influence from another complex. This is still to 
be determined. One theoretical study based on typology, without 
any actual stratigraphic evidence, derives the Folsom type from the 
Yuma. The validity of this hypothesis is made questionable, how- 
ever, by the fact that in some localities Folsom materials are found 
without any associated Yum.a points and in others the Yumas occur 
and the Folsoms are absent. Furthermore, numerous channel flakes 
and unfinished Folsom points show that the chipping technique was 
not the same as that employed on the Yuma specimens (pi. 4, fig. 2). 
The specimens from the Clovis-Portales sites demonstrate that the 
fluted points belong to a definite complex and that they are only one 
of a series of different types of implements rather than the major 
item in the material culture of a hunting people as the evidence from 
the original Folsom pit would tend to indicate. 

General interpretation of the geologic evidence is that the blue-gray 
stratum in the Clovis-Portales region was a lake deposit, probably 
laid down when temperatures were lower and there was much more 
precipitation. These conditions have led Dr. Antevs to conclude that 
the time represented corresponds to the end of the Pleistocene period, 



THE FOLSOM PROBLEM — ROBERTS 537 

his pluvial stage, dating back 12,000 to 13,000 years in this particular 
district. A more recent study suggests that the horizon from which 
the artifacts come is the flood-plain bottom land of a Pleistocene river 
rather than a lake deposit and that the age is much greater than that 
indicated by Ante vs. ^ 

At Burnet cave in the Guadalupe Mountains, southeastern New 
Mexico, Dr. Howard found a fluted point in association with bones 
from an extinct bison and an extinct muskox-like bovid. The point 
differs in some respects from the typical Folsom form, despite the 
channels, and falls in the categoiy of Folsom-like or Folsomoid, terms 
used by some investigators to indicate a variation in the fluted forms. 
The point probably belongs to the basic Folsom type, however, and 
for that reason has a bearing on the general problem. The association 
of point and bones in itself is indicative of some antiquity, but there 
is further significance in the fact that it occurred in a stratum under- 
lying Basket Maker material. The Basket Makers represent the 
oldest definitely established horizon in the culture-pattern sequence 
of the Pueblo area in the Southwest and date back some 2,000 years. 
There is some question as to whether or not the peripheral Basket 
IMaker material found in the Guadalupes and the Big Bend region 
farther to the southeast is actually as old as that from the main Basket 
Maker center, but the point and the bones unquestionably^ are of 
considerable age as they were in a hearth 4 feet below the bottom of 
the Basket Maker level.* 

The Lindenmeier site is 28 miles north of Fort Collins, Colo., IK 
miles south of the Wyoming line (pi. 5, figs. 1 and 2). It was dis- 
covered in 1924 by A. L. Coffin, his father Judge C. C. Coffin, and C. 
K. Collins, all residents of Fort Collins. During the decade 1924 to 
1934 the judge, his son, and a brother of the judge, Maj. Roy G. 
Coffin, of Colorado State College, visited it intermittently and col- 
lected specimens. From the beginning of their finds they recognized 
that the points were different from the ordinary arrowheads so abun- 
dant in the region but were not aware of their true significance until 
1931 when they learned that they were Folsom type. Most of their 
material was gathered from the surface. A few implements and some 
bone scraps were scratched out of the soil, but there was no attempt 
at extensive digging. The site was brought to the attention of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution, by Major 
Coffin in the summer of 1934. As a result of a series of letters from the 
Major, the writer went to Fort Collins in September. The owner of 
the land, William Lindenmeier, Jr., gave permission for a series of 
investigations, and preliminary prospecting was started. This first 

» For detailed studies of the Clovis-Portales sites, see Antevs, 1935a; Bryan, F., 1938; Cotter, 1937, 1938; 
Howard, 1935; Stock and Bode, 1936. 
< Howard, 1935a, pp. 62-79. 



538 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

work was continued through October and into November. Most of 
the digging was confined to a deep pit in an arroyo bank, where there 
was an exposed layer containing bones and artifacts (pi. 6, fig. 1), 
although some excavations were made at other portions of the site in 
an effort to determine its extent. 

In 1935 two large trenches were dug across the portion of the site 
lying south of the deep pit in the ravine (pi. 6, fig. 2). This was done 
to reveal a complete cross-section of the deposits overlying the speci- 
men-bearing stratum and to determine the source of the objects found 
in the deep pit (pi. 7, figs. 1 and 2). Trenches were also dug through 
a portion of the area near the location of the original Coffin finds. A 
bone pile comprising remains from nine individual bison, Bison iaylori, 
the same species found at Folsom, was uncovered (pi. 8, fig. 1). Further 
work carried on at this location in 1936 revealed the remains of a feast 
or barbecue. The carcasses of the animals, those found the previous 
year and others included in the new material, had been dismembered 
and cooked at the scene of the kill. Many bones were charred and 
several projectile points recovered from the debris exhibit the efl'ects 
of fire. Ill addition, numerous implements of various kinds were 
associated with the bones. Any lingering doubts concerning the con- 
temporaneity of the makers of Folsom points and the extinct bison 
were dispelled when the tip end of a point was found in situ in the 
channel for the spinal cord in one of a series of articidated vertebrae 
(pi. 8, fig. 2). Further interest was added by the fact that several foot 
bones from a camel, probably Camelops, were in the assemblage. 
Excavations made near the previous year's trenches yielded ample 
evidence of human occupation. There were traces of surface fires, 
quantities of debris left by the makers when they chipped the imple- 
ments, and numerous broken and unfinished tools. In the summer of 
1937 work was continued from the place where the 1936 activities were 
stopped and further confirmatory evidence obtained. Additional pits 
were sunk at new portions of the site during the 1938 season and several 
areas where fires had been built, animals cut up and cooked, and im- 
plements made were revealed (pi. 9, figs. 1 and 2). Most of the bones 
belong to Bison taylori, but a few represent an as yet unidentified 
deer and a group of small mammals. At some distance from the 
excavations, yet within the boundaries of the site, a section of mam- 
moth tusk associated with some cut and split bones and charcoal came 
to light. There were no points or implements associated with these 
remains, however, hence it cannot be stated definitely that they are 
contemporaneous with the other materials. The horizon in which they 
lay was identical with that where most of the excavations have been 
made, and as other sites have shown that Folsom hunters did kill the 
mammoth, there seems little doubt that such was the case at the 
Lindenmeier ranch. 



THE FOLSOM PROBLEM — ROBERTS 539 

During the summer of 1935 the Colorado Museum of Natural 
History also conducted excavations at the Lindenmeier site. These 
consisted of a series of 15 test pits spaced at intervals across the site, 
approximately at right angles to the line of the main trenches of the 
Smithsonian party. One of these test holes west of the large trenches 
penetrated the artifact-bearing stratum where there was a concentra- 
tion of material. With this as a starting point an area 30 by 30 feet 
was excavated. This pit yielded most of the specimens obtained by the 
Denver group. The material thus collected adds to the general fund 
of information on the site. Mr. Figgins and John L. Cotter, who 
was in direct charge of the work, made available to the present writer, 
for study, all of the specimens obtained from their excavations, and 
Mr. Cotter also furnished a copy of the manuscript that he submitted 
as a report on the investigations. 

Since the fall of 1934 Major Coffin and Judge Coffin, with the 
assistance of various friends, have carried on a series of independent 
explorations at different places on the site and have obtained a largo 
number of artifacts to supplement the series collected by the other 
excavators. 

Approximately 6,000 stone implements and a few ornaments, several 
of carved bone (pi. 10), as well as portions of tools made from animal 
bones have come from the digging. No human skeletal remains have 
been found, and no indications of a shelter or habitation have been 
observed. The general complex of implements consists of character- 
istically fluted points (pi. 11), snub-nosed scrapers (pi. 12), side 
scrapers (pi. 13), end scrapers, a variety of cutting edges, drills, 
flakes with small, sharp points that may have served to mark on bone, 
rough-flake knives, fluted knives, large blades, sandstone shaft 
polishers and rubbing stones of the same material. The few bone tools 
probably represent punches or awls. Most of the stone artifacts are 
chipped or flaked — there are no polished tools — and show that the 
litliic component in the material culture was primarily a flake industry, 
although tools of the core type are found. The latter are mainly 
hammers and choppers. 

Evidence from the digging shows that the occupation level was 
once an old valley bottom which subsequently was filled in by the 
wearing away of bordering ridges. At the present time it suggests a 
terrace above an intermittent tributary to a series of streams that 
eventually join the South Platte River (pi. 5, fig. 1). This effect 
has been produced by erosion of the ridges that once bordered the 
valley on the south. At the time of occupation the valley bottom 
was dotted with bogs and marshy places. The makers of the imple- 
ments camped on the slopes above these meadows. During the 
latter part of their occupancy and for some time subsequent to it 
climatic conditions were more favorable to vegetation than they 



540 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

have been in recent times. This is demonstrated by the heavy zone 
of black soil that occurs in the lower levels of the deposits over most 
of the site. The artifacts and bones are found just below or in the 
bottom of this layer (pi. 14, figs. 1 and 2). In this respect there is 
similarity between the Lindenmeier and other sites where the materials 
were also present in dark-clay deposits, but in contrast to the others 
the Lindenmeier stratum does not represent alluvial deposits: it 
was produced by heavy vegetation. After the abandonment of the 
location by its human inhabitants an era of erosion set in, and mate- 
rial from the valley walls was washed down across the site. The fill 
in the valley bottom shows that there have been several alternating 
periods of erosion and building up between that time and the present 
(pi. 7, fig. 2). These changes were probably induced by the lowering 
of the water table resulting from the encroachment of small streams 
worldng headward from the south and from a progressive lessening 
of general precipitation over the area. Dr. Kirk Bryan and Dr. 
Louis L. Ray, of the Division of Geology, Harvard University, spent 
four seasons working on the geology of the region in an effort to 
date the period of occupation. They attacked the problem from the 
angle of determining the relation of the Lindenmeier Valle}^ to the 
various terraces of the major drainage streams of the area. This 
correlation was estabUshed after many months of careful survey, 
and, by the same process of tracing terraces along the main streams 
back into the mountains, relationship with the various glacial stages 
was demonstrated. The conclusion reached is that Folsom men 
lived at the Lindenmeier site while glaciers still lingered in the moun- 
tains and when the climate was wetter and colder than now. Al- 
though the stage represented is long after the climax of the Wisconsin 
glaciation, it is still within the Late Glacial and is good evidence for 
the presence of men in the New World in Late Pleistocene times. 
From present knowledge it is not possible to give a close estimate of 
the number of years involved, but the age has been placed at from 
10,000 to 25,000 years ago with the probability that it is closer to 
25,000. 

Present indications are that the Lindenmeier site was not occupied 
continuously by a large group of people. It probably was an annual 
summer and fall camping ground visited regularly over a period of 
years by smaller parties. That the intervals between occupations 
were not protracted is shown by the homogeneous nature of the 
layer in which the artifacts are found .^ 

The find at Dent, Colo., which Ues some 50 miles southeast from 
the Lindenmeier site, consisted of mammoth skeletons and two large 
fluted points. This association is in agreement with that found by 

» Further information on tlie Lindenmeier site is contained in Bryan, Kirk, 1937; CofBn, R. O., 1937; 
Roberts, 1935. 1936. 



THE FOLSOM PROBLEM ROBERTS 541 

Howard and Cotter in the Clovis-Portales area and indicates that 
the finding of a portion of a tusk at the Lindenmeier site was not 
necessarily due to entirely fortuitous circumstances. The digging 
at Dent was started by Father Conrad BHgery, S. J., and a number 
of his students from Regis College, Denver, and v/as completed by a 
party from the Colorado Museum of Natural History.^ 

Other sites where implements of the Folsom type are found are 
located in this same general area. One is near the town of Kersey, 
Colo., about 7 miles east from Greeley, Colo. It was discovered 
by F. L. Powars and his son Wayne, of Greeley, and the writer did 
some work there in the summer of 1936. The other is 18 miles 
northwest from Fort Collins, about 12 miles southwest from the 
Lindenmeier, and was found in the fall of 1935 by T. Russell Johnson, 
of La Porte, Colo. Some digging was done there in the summer of 
1936 by Miss Marie Wormington of the Colorado Museum of Natural 
History. Neither of these two sites is as productive or extensive as 
the Lindenmeier, but the objects found there are in close agreement 
with those from the latter. 

From the evidence now at hand certain broad generalizations may 
be made concerning the Folsom problem. No human remains 
definitely attributable to that phase of American archeology have 
been found. One skeleton from the Clovis-Portales region was 
reported as a Folsom man, but there were no accompanying artifacts 
to show that such was the case. Another purporting to be Folsom 
came from a bank of the Cimarron River 8 miles east of Folsom. It 
also had no associated objects that would aid in correlating it with 
the makers of the fluted points and other implements characteristic 
of the Folsom complex.^ Both may be the remains of those people, 
yet such a conclusion is not tenable without the support of accompany- 
ing artifacts because both regions were occupied by other and later 
Indian groups. Hence, it must be said that so far as his physical 
characteristics are concerned, Folsom man is still an unknown person. 
There is no mformation on the type of shelter he may have used. 
On the other hand it seems obvious that he was a typical hunter 
depending entirely upon game — mainly bison, but occasionally the 
mammoth and a stray camel, deer, and antelope — for his mainte- 
nance and sustenance. He no doubt supplemented his preponderant 
meat diet with wild seeds and "greens" but did not cultivate his own 
vegetal food. He probably did not settle long in one place but 
traveled wherever the animals moved in order to support himself. 
This factor unquestionably is linked with that of the spread of aborigi- 
nal man to North America and the question of when that movement 
began. There would be little incentive to migrate to a region where 

« Figgias, 1933. 

' Figgins, 1935; Roberts, 1937. 



542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

animals were scarce or absent; consequently, the men must have fol- 
lowed the game, and the routes of travel must have been more or less 
the same. 

A complicating ramification in the study of the problem is that of 
the glaciation and extent of the ice sheets over North America. Many 
of the mammals that crossed over from Asia during Pleistocene times 
seemingly came by way of Bering Strait, either over the ice or by 
means of a land bridge in that vicinity. Some of them came during 
interglacial stages, others toward the end of the Late Glacial and in 
the Early Postglacial. The main pathway from the unglaciated 
area in central Alaska seems to have been east to the Mackenzie and 
then southeastward along that river and the eastern slopes of the 
Rocky Mountains into the Plains. This corridor apparently was 
open for a time prior to the last glacial stage and then became the 
first land route available when the glaciers began to melt. Subse- 
quently, a route due south along the Fraser River opened, and the 
Pacific coast strip also became available for land travel over most of 
its length. Some of the animals himted by Folsom men, the mammoth 
particularly, probably penetrated into the area in interglacial times, 
because opinion is that elephants and bison were missing in Alaska 
in Late Glacial and Early Postglacial times, wliile others undoubtedly 
migrated with the opening of the cordilleran corridor. Present indi- 
cations are that it was at the latter stage that the hunters first ven- 
tured into this vast New World. Many of the animals that served 
as game were essentially the same as exist today, but as the people 
moved toward the south they found and killed forms that are now 
extinct, such as the mammoth, mastodon, some species of bison, the 
camel, and the ground sloth. Although these extinct forms are con- 
sidered as Pleistocene mammals, there appears to be no question but 
that many of them may have hved on into Postglacial times. For 
this reason the mere association of man-made tools with bones of 
such creatures does not necessarily indicate a Pleistocene date. Other 
complications are brought about by the probability that some forms — 
the mammoth, mastodon and musk-oxen — followed the retreating 
glaciers and, when found in some of the more northern districts, are 
DOt actually as old as those uncovered in southern locaHties. How- 
ever, two of the Folsom sites, Folsom and Clovis-Portales, have been 
placed at the close of the Pleistocene with mention of the possibility 
that they really belong within that period, and the Lindenmeier site 
has been assigned to a phase withiu the Pleistocene on evidence apart 
from animal remains. For this reason it becomes increasingly clear 
that the Folsom hunters must have drifted down along the opening 
corridor not long after the beginning of the glacial retreat.* 

« Antevs, 1935 b; Johnston, 1933. 



THE FOLSOM PROBLEM — ROBERTS 543 

Mention should be made of the distribution of fluted points. The 
type has been known for a long time and variations of it have been 
found from the Rockies to the Atlantic, from the Plains Provinces of 
Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. It is represented in collections in 
numerous museums and in at least one case has been called by another 
name, the Seneca River point. It did not attract particular attention 
until the finds at Folsom. This was largely because most of the 
examples were picked up from the surface and were without definite 
significance. The main area of concentration for the type lies in a 
strip that stretches from Alberta and Saskatchewan in the north to 
New Mexico and western Texas in the south. Smaller centers are 
found in the eastern and southern States, notably western New 
York, Ohio, Tennessee, and in a district along the boundary line 
between central Virginia and central North Carolina. Only a few 
sporadic examples have been found west of the Rockies and most of 
them come from two districts in California, one in the southern part 
of the State and the other in the northern. There are two main 
classes of fluted points, one represented by the Iblsom, Lindenmeier, 
and similar forms found in the western plains strip along the Rockies, 
and a larger, more generalized one embodying most of the character- 
istics but not exhibiting the same degree of skilled workmanship in 
their manufacture and for the most part lacking the fine secondary 
retouch along the edges. The latter form is the one with the wide 
distribution (pi. 15). The question is whether all should be called 
Folsom points or if there should be some designation that did not 
carry the implication of equal age. Dr. Howard and the writer have 
used the terms Folsom-like and Folsomoid to indicate the distinction, 
but both have been frowned upon by the archeological taxonomists. 
H. C. Shetrone of the Ohio State Museum has suggested that thej'^ be 
definitely termed Fluted Points as a class and the various forms 
then be more specifically designated by place names such as Folsom, 
Lindenmeier, Clovis, et cetera. This proposal has considerable merit 
and would remove much present confusion. However, a committee 
appointed at the symposium on early man decided that the name 
Folsom should be applied to all. Such being the case it would seem 
that definite qualifiers should be used, as in the case of Mr. Shetrone's 
suggestion, and the various examples be known as Folsom-Folsom, 
Lindenmeier-Folsom, Ohio-Folsom, or California Folsom. 

The significance of the fluted points occurring east of the Mississippi 
River is open to question. There is still no evidence suggesting their 
possible age or place in the main archeological picture. The vast 
majority are surface fhids and although there seem to be several 
centers, as mentioned previously, where they are picked up in com- 
paratively large numbers, nothing has come to light that would 
mdicate their relationship to the cultural remains present in those 



544 ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

areas. The fact that the eastern examples bear a striking resemblance 
to those in the West does not make them of equal antiquity. They 
may represent a survival of a highly specialized implement in later 
horizons. Some students take a different view and regard the indi- 
viduality of the form together with its apparent absence from the 
recognized complexes in the East as a manifestation of its greater 
age. On the basis of the distribution concept as an index to age — 
a theory substantiated in some respects by evidence that tends to 
indicate that there is a correlation between type and distribution, so 
that the larger the area covered the older the form — the eastern 
examples would indicate more antiquity than the western. But 
until specimens are found in association with fauna comparable to 
that in the West and accompanied by other implements now known 
to belong to the Folsom complex, conclusions must be withheld. 
The question becomes more complicated when it is recalled that the 
Folsom implement makers no doubt chipped a variety of sizes and 
qualities of points for use in hunting different kinds of game, and the 
larger forms may merely represent those intended for big animals. 

The California occurrences raise a number of questions. There 
apparently is so marked a gap between them and the major centers 
of the type that the problem of the relationship is difficult to solve. 
Furthermore, many of the purported Folsom points from that region 
are so nondescript in form that it requires stretching of the Folsom- 
lil?:e category to the utmost to include them. In only a very few 
cases is there an approximation of similarity to the Folsom-Folsom 
or Lindenmeier-Folsom specimens. This matter of identification, 
however, is one that has proved troublesome in all parts of the country, 
and there has been a tendency to include points with a basal thinning, 
not an actual facial fluting, in the Folsom classification. An explana- 
tion for the presence of materials attributable to the Folsom complex 
in California is hard to find in the light of present knowledge. They 
may have worked westward from the southern plains area, but traces 
of such a movement are scarce, and suggestions that the reverse was 
the case, that the Folsom hunters worked east from southern Cali- 
fornia and thence upward into the plains, seem entirely unwarranted 
in the light of knowledge of the migration of the animals that formed 
the chief source of sustenance and the occurrence of materials in that 
area. It is more likely that the Pacific coast was reached by groups 
drifting down the Fraser River corridor after it had opened. Coming 
from the upper plains reservoir of hunting peoples, they could well 
have possessed similar implements. While too little is known as 
yet concerning the problem to make any definite statements, it may 
be mentioned that in view of the indications that the Fraser route 
opened subsequent to that of the western plains corridor, the Cali- 



THE FOLSOM PROBLEM ROBERTS 545 

foniia remains may represent a somewhat later phase and for that 
reason show some differences. 

In closing, attention should be called to the fact that there are other 
traces of early occupancy in portions of the plains area, particularly 
in Minnesota and Texas. In some cases there are indications that 
the remains may antedate those of the Folsom complex, in others 
that they are contemporaneous with it. Although detailed consider- 
ation of these occurrences is not pertinent to the present discussion, 
it is essential to mention them because they have significance in 
connection with the study of early man in America, and the matter 
of their relationship to or bearing on the Folsom problem is a phase 
of the subject stiU to be studied. 

LITERATURE CITED 
Antevs, Ernst 

1935 a. The occurrences of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near 
Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 2, Age of the Clovis lake clays. Proc. Acad. 
Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 87, pp. 304-312. 
b. The spread of aboriginal man to North America. Geogr. Rev., vol. 
25, No. 2, pp. 302-309, April. 
Brown, Barnum 

1929. Folsom culture and its age (with discussion by Kirk Bryan). Bull. 
Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 40, pp. 128-129. 
Bryan, Frank 

1938. A review of the geology of the Clovis finds reported by Howard and 
Cotter. Amer. Antiquity, vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 113-136, October. 
Brtan, Kirk 

1937. Geology of the Folsom deposits in New Mexico and Colorado. In 
Early Man, as depicted by leading authorities at the International 
Symposium, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, March 
1937, pp. 139-152. J. B. Lippincott Co., London. 
Coffin, Roy G. 

1937. Northern Colorado's first settlers. Publ. by Colorado State Coll., 
Fort Collins. 
Cook, H. J. 

1927. New geological and paleontological evidence bearing on the antiquity 
of mankind. Nat. Hist., Journ. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 27, No. 
3, pp. 240-247, May-Juue. 
Cotter, John L. 

1937. The occurrence of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near 

Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 4, Report on excavation at the gravel pit, 1936. 
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 89, pp. 1-16. 

1938. The occurrence of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near 

Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 6, Report on field season of 1937. Proc. 

Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 90, pp. 113-117. 
FiGGINS, J. D. 

1927. The antiquity of man in America. Nat. Hist., Journ. Amer. Mus. 

Nat. Hist., vol. 27, No. 3, pp. 229-239, May- June. 
1933. A further contribution to the antiquity of man in America. Proc. 

Colorado Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 12, No. 2. 
1935. New World man. Proc. Colorado Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 14, No. 1. 



546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

Howard, Edgar B. 

1935 a. Evidence of early man in North America. Mus. Journ., Univ. Mus.» 
Univ. Pennsylvania, vol. 24, Nos. 2-3, pp. 61-175. 
b. The occurrence of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near 
Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 1, Introduction. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 
Philadelphia, vol. 87, pp. 299-303. 
Johnston, W. A. 

1933. Quaternary geology of North America in relation to the migration of 
man. In The American Aborigines, their origin and antiquity. 
5th Pacific Sci. Congr., Canada, 1933, pp. 11-45. 
RoBKRTs, F. H. H., Jr. 

1935. A Folsom complex: preliminary report on investigations at the Lin- 

denmeier site in northern Colorado. Sm.ithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 
94. No. 4. 

1936. Additional information on the Folsom complex: report on the second 

season's investigations at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado. 
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, No. 10. 

1937. New World man. Amer. Antiquity, vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 172-177, Janu- 

ary. 
Stock, Chester, and Bode, F. D. 

1936. The occurrence of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near 
Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 3, Geology and vertebrate paleontology of the 
later Quaternary near Clovis, N. Mex. Proc. Acad. Nat- Sci. 
Philadelphia, vol. 87, pp. 219-241. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Roberts 




1. II. h, c, original points from Folsom pit. a and h, different sides of same speciiiu'ti. 




2. Fragment of stone in place near bone and portion of point that fits small piece. 
(Pictures on this plate courtesy of Colorado Museum of Natural History). 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — ^Roberts 



Plate 2 




1. Folsom pit in summer of 1927. Point and bones in situ at left of standing figure. (Ptiotograph by 

author.) 




2. Point aud bison ribs in situ. (PhotograpLi courtesy of Colorado Museum of Natural History.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Roberts 



PLATE 3 




1. General view of "blow-out" between Clovis and Portales. 




-^ 



2. Mammoth tusk weathering out of old lake bed. (Pictures on this plate courtesy of Dr. E. B. Howard.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Roberts 



Plate 4 




Part of trench at Clovis sites where two mammoth skeletons and bison were uncovered in direct associa- 
tion with Folsom points. (Picture courtesy of Dr. E. B. Howard.) 




2. One characteristic type of Yuma points. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Roberts 



Plate 5 




1. Looking east across Lindemieier site. Cross indicates excavation area. (Photograph by author.) 




2. View across Lindenmeier site toward the southwest. Excavations in central portion of picture. 

(Photograph by author.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Roberts 



Plate 6 



l-mm0.^r* 




1. Deep pit in ravine bank at beginning of investigations. (Photograph by author.; 



"^ '"Cm 






^^.. 






2. Large trenches cutting across site toward deep pit in ravine bank. (Photograph by author.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Roberts 



Plate 7 




1. Sifting material at lower end of trench leading into pit. (Photograph by aullior.) 




2. End of large trench. Workman staiiding on level where artifacts were found. (Photograph by author.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Roberts 



Plate 




1. Articulaied fureleg of bisou in situ at Lindenmeier site. (Photograph by author.) 




2. Tip of projectile point lodged in bison vertebra. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Roberts 



Plate 9 




1. Workman uncovering bone fragments and stone tools at Lindenmeier site. (Photograph by author.) 




2. Split bones and stone implements in situ. Small numbers indicate artifacts. (Photograph by author.) 



Smithsonian Reprart. 1938.— Roberts 



Plate 10 




Ornamented Bone Scraps From Lindenmeier Site. (Actual Size.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1 938.— Roberts 



Plate 1 1 




FousoM Points From the lindenmeier Site. (Actual Size.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Roberts 



Plate 12 




Snub-nosed scrapers From the Lindenmeier Site. (Actual Size.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1938.— Roberts 



Plate 13 




SIDE SCRAPERS FROM THE LiNDENMEIER SITE. (ACTUAL SIZE.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Roberts 



Plate 14 




1. Bones and stone objects at base of heavy soil zone. (Photograph by author.) 




2. Workmen removing bone scraps and stone implements from layer below heavy soil zone. (Photograph 

by author.) 



Smithsonian Report,' 1 938.— Roberts 



PLATE 15 




TYPICAU FORMS OF POINTS FOUND IN SOUTHERN AND EASTERN STATES. 

(ACTUAL SIZE.) 



THE ROMAN ORIENT AND THE FAR EAST 



By C. G. Seligman 



[With four plates] 

Compared with the civilizations of Egypt and the Near East, 
Chinese civilization as we Imow it is not of great age. Authentic 
history does not begin until about the ninth century B. C. (a com- 
monly accepted date is 841 B. C), nor have we archeological finds 
that we can reasonably date prior to the thirteenth or fourteenth 
century B. C, though the beauty and mature style of the earliest 
known bronzes indicates a history of at least hundreds of years before 
this. 

Figure 1 illustrates the time-relations of China and the Near East, 
In spite of its magnificent bronzes and graved bones, we know little 
of the Shang-Yin dynasty, which in date comes near to coinciding with 
the 18th dynasty of Egypt, while the Shang-Yin script is still some- 
what primitive, indicating perhaps a period of no more than a few 
hundred years from an unknown pictographic origin. 

The above chronology applies only to northern China, where Chi- 
nese civilization arose; indeed it did not reach south of the Yangtze 
until a few centuries B.C. The civilization of Japan is even younger, 
and is now generally accepted as not more than some 2,000 years old. 
Thus the earliest contacts between West and East were between the 
Roman Orient and China. 

In order to have more space to discuss historic contacts — extending 
over something more than 1,000 years (between 200 B. C. and A. D. 
900) — I shall deal very briefly with prehistoric contacts and refer only 
to the socketed celt. This highly specialized form of axe is one of the 
most characteristic implements of the Late Bronze Age (c. 1300-900 
B. C.) of central and eastern Europe.^ Using geological terminology, 
we may look upon it as the type-fossil of its age and zone of distribu- 
tion. It is found over the whole of northwestern, central, and espe- 
cially northeastern Europe; it occurs in Italy, but not in Greece, and is 

> The Lloyd-Roberts lecture for the year 1935, delivered before the Royal College of Physicians. Re- 
printed by permission, with slight revision, from Antiquity, vol. 11, No. 41, March 1937. 

« Dfechelette, Manuel d'Archfeologie, vol. 2, p. 106, Paris, 1910. In eastern Russia the date given by Q. 
von Merhart, Bronzezeit am Yenissei, p. 16, Vienna, 1926, is from 1000 to 400 B. O. 

547 
114728—39 36 



548 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN" INSTITUTION, 1938 



EGYPT 






NARMER 
(MENES) 



PYRAMIDS 



MEDITERRANEAN 
LANDS AND 
NEAR EAST 



3000 



SARGON OF AKKAD 



DYN. XII 2000 

DYN. XVIII 



CHINA 



1000 



IRON COMMON 






B.C. 
A. D. 



ROME 

A. U. C. 753 



ALEXANDER 



CARTHAGE DESTROYED 



I W I 



HAGIA SOPHIA 
<; DEDICATED, 538 

„HEJIRA, 622 



YANG SHAO 

(CHALCOLITHIC CIVILIZATION) 



HSIA STATE 

(FAINTLY HISTORICAL) 

SHANG-YIN DYNASTY 



CHOU DYNASTY 
(FEUDAL AGE) 



AUTHENTIC HISTORY BEGINS 



CONFUCIUS 



CH'IN DYNASTY, 221 
HAN DYNASTY BEGINS, 206 
FIRST HISTORIC CONTACT WITH 
WEST, C. 130 

IRON COMMON 

HAN DYNASTY ENDS, 220 

PERIOD OF FIGHTING, PARTI- 
TION AND PARTIAL NOMAD 
CONQUEST UNDER NINE 
SHORT DYNASTIES, LASTING 
400 YEARS 



T'ANG DYNASTY, 618 



SUNG DYNASTY, 960 



1000 



FiGUEK 1.— Time chart. 



ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 



549 



absent from Africa; no specimen has ever been recovered from an 
Egyptian tomb, nor does it occur in Asia Minor, Persia, or India. 
The socketed celt passed along no definite or organized trade route — 
there is good historical evidence to show that the silk route was not 
organized in its entirety until the second century B. C. — but we may 
picture it as borne eastward from southern Russia on a wide front 
across the Urals, specimens passing from hand to hand among the 
pastoral nom.ads of Siberia, until here and there, as at Minusinsk, a 
metallurgical center came into existence, the manufactured products 




Figure 2.— Socketed celts. 



being carried far and wide north and east of the great mountain ranges 
of Central Asia.^ 

Figure 2 represents three socketed celts. The one on the left is 
from Hungary and that in the center (both in the British Museum) 
from China, as is that on the right. The first character on the central 
specimen Professor Yetts informs me is clearly ho, "growing grain." 

From these early contacts with Siberia and the West, we turn to 
that great track, nearly 5,000 miles long, which, crossing mountain, 
steppe, and desert, constituted the highway along which Ariadne's 
silken thread joined the farthest East with Antioch, the most im- 
portant city of the Roman Orient. 

This route was first organized throughout its length in the second 
century B. C, but long before tliis lapis lazuli was reaching Ur, and 

' When this lecture was given I held that the socketed celt did not reach China until the seventh or sixth 
century B. C. We now know that the actual date was several hundred years earlier, i. e., in the twelfth 
or eleventh century B. C, at the end of the Shang-Yin dynasty. There exist specimens from An-yang, the 
capital of the later kings of that dynasty, which can only be dated to that period of bronae decoration to 
which Professor Yetts has applied the terra "First Phase," historically the latter part of the Shang-Yin and 
early part of the Chou dynasties (Antiquity, vol. 12, 1938) . 

For a general discussion of the passage of the socketed celt from Europe to China see The Journal of the 
Royal Anthropological Institute, vol. 50, 1920, 



550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

even predynastic Egypt (i. e., 3000 B. C. and earlier). There can be 
no doubt that this rare mineral was mined in eastern Afghanistan, and 
reached Mesopotamia and Egypt, passing, as we may infer, over what 
was later to be the organized western third of the trade route.* Be- 
sides this, commonsense indicates that from early times hillmen and 
dwellers on the plains must have exchanged goods along its course, 
and pastoral nomads have raided and traded with the sedentaries. 
But it was not until China's discovery of the West that a highway 
which was to join Pacific and Atlantic was brought into being and 
organized to constitute a single whole, as definitely intended for the 
far movement of goods and men as is its modem successor, the Trans- 
Siberian Railway. 

It must, however, be remembered that while the silk route across 
Asia is of special interest on account of the discoveries by Stein and 
others that have been made along its course, the use of the monsoons 
from the first century A. D. as a means of direct passage from the Red 
Sea to India was of even greater economic importance. Rome's trade 
with India was always greater than with the Far East; part of the silk 
she received was brought by sea in ships which picked up their wares 
in ports as far east as Tongking and Burmah, as well as in the nearer 
ports of western India such as Muziris (the modern Cranganore). It 
is significant that no hoards of Roman coins have been found in China 
as they have in India.^ 

The various stages of the highway have been often described, indeed 
the route was mapped with amazing accuracy — considering the then 
state of geographical studies — in a work dedicated to Napoleon * by 
the learned Joseph Hager of Pavia University, who pictures the actual 
arrival of a Greek caravan at Sianfu, while within the last few years 
G. F. Hudson has given an excellent survey in his important work, 
Europe and China. In what follows I have drawn largely on his 
account, but have considered it convenient to divide the highway into 
three main sections — eastern, middle, and western — rather than to 
consider it in four sections depending on political factors, as he does. 

The eastern section, which may be regarded as starting either at 
Ch'ang-an (the Han capital) or at Lan Chow in western Kansu, i. e., 
the extreme northwest of Cliina, passes south of the westernmost 
extension of the Great Wall but north of the Nanshan range, westward 

♦ Gregory, J. W., The story of the road, pp. 33-34, 1931; also Lucas, A., Ancient Egyptian materials and 
Industries, pp. 347, 348, 1934. 

• The Indian trade, and the sea-borne trade from the Far East which traveled up the Red Sea, Is discussed 
at length in an excellent work by E. R. Warmington entitled "The commerce between the Roman Empire 
and India," (Cambridge, 1928). My statement with regard to Roman coins may not be quite accurate. 
Professor Yetts draws my attention to a paper by Bushnell (Joum. Peking Oriental Soc, vol. 1, No. 2, 1886) 
recording the discovery of 16 Roman copper coins dating from Tiberius to Aurelian, made some 50 or 60 
years earlier in Shansl, about 80 miles from T'ai yuan fu. 

« Description des Mfedailles Chinoises du Cabines Imperial de France, pr6c6d6e d'un essai de Numis- 
matique Chinoise, avec des 6claircissemens sur le commerce des Qrecs avec la Chine • * * Paris, an 
zni-1805. 




1H728-31J (Kmo 11.551) 



KOMAE" ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 551 

across Sinkiang (Chinese Turkestan), skirting the Tarim Desert either 
north or south to reach Kashgar (Issedon Scythica), the gate of the 
Pamirs. Kashgar is some 1,500 miles from Lan Chou, and Turfan, 
the region of Stein's great discoveries, lies roughly halfway between 
the two cities. 

The middle section crosses the Pamirs to reach Merv (Antiochia 
Margiana) by alternate routes, via Samarkand (Marakanda) or 
Balkh (Bactra). 

From Merv the western section ran west and south across northern 
Iran to Hecatompylos and Hamadan (Ecbatana) to Seleucia-Ctesiphon 
just below the modern Baghdad, crossing the Euphrates at Zeugma 
where there was a Roman legionary camp, and thence to Antioch, 
whence the goods were distributed through the Empire. 

This is no place to discuss the ethnology of the peoples along the 
trade route, though variation in cultural habit must necessarily have 
greatly influenced commerce along the highway. West of the Pamirs 
the inhabitants may in a general way be called Iranian ; east of this it 
would perhaps be natural to expect a Mongol or at least predomi- 
nantly Mongoloid population, but this is not so. The careful analysis 
by T. A. Joyce of the measurements and photographs brought back 
by Stein indicates that east of the Pamirs the ethnic type is predomi- 
nantly Alpine, with considerable Turki admixture and traces of 
Turki and Afghan, definitely not Mongol.^ This may to some extent 
account for the hold that various items of western thought and habit 
achieved along the trade route, though too much can be made of the 
reputed Chinese unwillingness to adopt foreign ideas and practices; 
for, as noted later, the T'ang period — perhaps that of China's greatest 
brilliance — was marked by the influx and ready acceptance of foreign- 
ers and of foreign (Western and Indian) ideas. 

Although there were many factors that tended to the early utiliza- 
tion of the sUk route by the Chinese and emphasized their determina- 
tion to keep it open, it cannot be too strongly stressed that it was 
neither desire for geographical knowledge nor love of conquest or of 
gaiu that dictated China's exploration of the West. It was in the 
first place due to sheer military necessity, the same need that led to 
the building of the Great Wall in order to counter the attacks of the 
barbarians of the North. These were the Hsiung Nu nomads, a 
Turki-speaking stock, identified with the Huns who invaded Europe 
a few centuries later. Under the Emperor Wu (141-87 B. C.) the 
struggle, waged iutermittently for a couple of centuries, became a 
desperate contest, into which was thrown the full strength of the 
Empire. The hope of finding assistance in the West and so outflank- 

' Joyce, T. A,, On the physical anthropology of the oases of Khotan and Kerlya, Journ. Roy. Anthrop. 
Inst., vol. 33, 1903; and Notes on the physical anthropology of Chinese Turkestan and the Pamirs, op. cit., 
vol. 42, 1912. 



552 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

ing the Hsiung Nu was the primary purpose of that western journey 
upon which Wu sent his general, Chang Ch'ien, thereafter maintain- 
ing regular touch with Iranian lands. 

Hand in hand with the determination to repulse the Hsiung Nu, 
went the Chinese desire for a supply of those fine Iranian horses which 
in China were called "blood-sweating horses," fabled to be the off- 
spring of a heavenly steed, for it was at this time that the Chinese, 
in response to Hsiung Nu attacks from the North, were developing a 
new technique of warfare in which cavalry played the preponderant 
part. The fodder of these noble beasts was alfalfa {Medicago sativa), 
and Chang Ch'ien, being a man of judgment, not only brought back 
the horses but also alfalfa seeds, leading to the rapid diffusion of the 
plant through northern China. The best horses appear to have come 
from Ferghana, now the eastern portion of Russian Turkestan, where 
alfalfa still yields four or five crops a year and is cultivated up to a 
height of 5,000 feet.^ 

Another gift brought by Chang Ch'ien from the West was the grape 
used in Ferghana to make wine; the vine was, however, cultivated 
for centuries in its new home before the Chinese made wine from it, 
first apparently in the seventh century.^ 

It was Chang Ch'ien's quest for the "blood-sweating" horses that 
established the first contacts between China and the Mediterranean 
world, for the Ta Yuan, the owners of the coveted horses, were the 
inhabitants of Sogdiana (between Oxus and Jaxartes), while Ta Hsia, 
the country newly settled by the Ta Yiieh-chih, was Bactria, both 
occupying the furthest extremity of the great Bactrian-Sogdian 
satrapy of Alexander's Empire. Although at this time the Seleucids 
had lost their outlying possessions, especially in the East,^° even the 
remotest territories had been so thoroughly permeated by Hellenistic 
influence that they retained something of Hellenism long after this 
period, though exposed to the enmity of the rising Parthian Empire.'^ 

Chang Ch'ien's report has been preserved, perhaps in his own 
words. Mr. Fitzgerald's translation runs as follows: 

Ta Yuan [Ferghana], the people are sedentary [not nomads] and cultivate the 
soil. They have many superb horses, which sweat blood when they perspire. 
There are cities, houses, and mansions as in China. To the northeast is the 
country of the Wu Sun (the Hi Valley], to the east is Yu T'ien [Kashgaria]. West 
of Yu T'ien the rivers flow westward into the Western Sea [the Caspian and 

' Laufer, B., Sino-Iranica, p. 210, Chicago, 1919. Several aspects of the quest for the superior horse are 
Investigated by Yetts (The horse, a factor in early Chinese history, Eurasia, Septentrionalis Antiqua, vol. 
9, pp. 231-255, 1934). 

• Laufer, op. cit., pp. 221 et seq. 

10 In 255 B. C. or thereabouts, Bactria revolted under Diodotus and gradually became independent. 
Diodotus II becoming king some time before 227 (Cambridge Ancient History, vol. 7, pp. 719, 720). 

n The Parthians dated their era from the year 247 B. C. (loc. cit.). In order to emphasize the high degree 
in which Hellenistic influence was present in the Satrapy, it is worth remembering that both Herat and 
Kandahar when founded bore the name of Alexandria. I may also refer to a passage by Rostovtzefl bear- 
ing on this point (Cambridge Ancient History, vol. 7, pp. 167-8). 



ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 553 

Aral, Chang Ch'ien did not distinguish between the two]. From Yii T'ien east- 
ward the rivers flow to the east into the salt swamps [the Tarim river system]. 
From these swamps the waters flow underground until they reappear as the 
source of the Yellow River. From the salt swamp to Ch'ang An, the distance is 
5,000 Li. The Right horde of Hsiung Nu live between the salt swamps and the 
Great Wall of Lung Hsi [Kansu]. The Wu Sun [Khirgiz], K'ang Chu, and Yen 
Ts'ai, who are northwest of the K'ang Chu, and Ta Yiieh Chi, are nomads with 
customs similar to the Hsiung Nu. Ta Hsia [Bactria] is southwest of Ta Ylian 
and has similar customs. When your servant was in Ta Hsia he saw large bam- 
boos and cloth of Shu [Szechuan]. When he asked the people of Ta Hsia how 
they obtained these things they told him that their merchants bought them in 
Shen Tu [Sind, India], which is a country several hundred li southeast of Ta Hsia, 
and is a sedentary nation, like Ta Hsia. Both Ta Hsia and Ta Yiian are tribu- 
tary to An Hsi [Parthia, so called from the dynasty of Arsaces]. So far as your 
servant could judge Ta Hsia is 12,000 li [4,000 miles] from China. As it is north- 
east of Shen Tu, this kingdom cannot be so far from China.'^ 

Distances are exaggerated (the li is a tliird of a mile) and the source 
of the Yellow River incorrectly stated, but apart from these errors the 
report is a plain statement of fact. Chang Ch'ien had, however, so 
thoroughly experienced in his own person the difficulties of the north- 
ern route that he persuaded the Emperor to seeli to approach the West 
overland via India, a reasonable enough suggestion at a time when the 
extreme difficulty of the country between Yunnan and Burmah was 
unlvnown; for even at the present day the deep gorges of the Mekong 
and Salween rivers make this one of the most inaccessible parts of the 
earth's surface. When it was realized that this route was impossible, 
interest once more centered on the northern route, and several embas- 
sies reached Ta Yiian. For a long time the ruler of this state reso- 
lutely refused to hand over any of his celebrated horses, and little 
progress was made until Chinese envoys seized some of the best 
horses and with them set out for China, only to be ambushed by the 
Yiian, who killed the Chinese and recovered the horses. An attempt 
to revenge this insult resulted in the defeat of a Chinese army, and it 
was not until a further army was despatched that an agreed peace was 
made (102 B. C), one of the terms being that the Chinese received 
several of the finest horses of Ta Yiian and a large number of inferior 
quality. 

Some years after the death of the Emperor Wu there came a split 
in the ranks of the Hsiung Nu, whose northern and southern hordes 
quarrelled and so weakened each other that the southern leader did 
homage at Ch'ang-an. Chinese vigilance in the west relaxed, and 
war broke out again during the reign of Han Ming Ti (A. D. 58-77), 
who was forced to realize that Turkestan must again be brought under 
Chinese influence. In A. D. 73 Pan Chao, a really great general and 
administrator, began his career in Turkestan, though it was not until 

" Fitzgerald, 0. P., China: a cultural history, pp. 178-9, 103S. 



554 ANNUAX. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

A. D. 77 that he was given a free hand. His policy was to use native 
levies of what we should now call "friendlies," with a stiffening of 
experienced Chinese officers and soldiers: 

For the next seventeen years Pan Chao carried out this plan with unbroken 
success. One by one the kings of the Turkestan oases were reduced to obedience, 
until the whole Tarim Valley was under the peaceful rule of the Chinese viceroy. 
In A. D. 97, after reducing the last contumacious prince, Pan Chao crossed the T'ien 
Shan Mountains, and with an army of 70,000 men advanced unopposed to the 
shores of the Caspian Sea. Never before, and never since, has a Chinese army 
encamped almost on the frontiers of Europe. The whole stretch of country between 
the T'ien Shan and the Caspian submitted to the Chinese without fighting. More 
than fifty "kings" acknowledged Chinese overlordship and sent their heirs as 
hostages to Lo-yang." 

East to West the highway essentially carried silk, and, to a much 
smaller extent, furs. The quantity of silk carried was very large; 
Hudson, referring to the age of the Antonines, i. e., the middle of the 
second century A. D., writes — no doubt with some little exaggeration — 
of silken fabrics being "well nigh as familiar in Londinium as in Lo- 
yang".^* We have little knowledge of the goods carried eastward in 
exchange; we do not hear of any particular product of the Near East 
being exported in large quantities, and what records we have suggest 
that the Roman Empire, at any rate in the early centuries A. D., in 
the main paid for its silk in gold. A discovery by Stein enables us to 
appreciate how thoroughly the trade was organized on the Chinese side. 
On his 1918 expedition he found two strips of undyed cream-colored 
silk in one of the refuse heaps adjoining a post on the old Chinese 
limes west of Tun-huang. The silk could be dated by other objects 
in the heap to between A. D. 67 and 137. Of this happy find Stein 
writes that one strip "bears the ink impression of a Chinese seal, not 
yet deciphered, and by the selvages retained at both ends is shown 
to have come from a piece or roll of silk which had a width of about 
19.7 inches or 50 centimeters." The other strip, 12}^ inches long and 
incomplete at one end, bears a Chinese inscription read by M. 
Chavannes * * * "A roll of silk from K'ang-fu in the kingdom of 
Jen-ch'^ng; width 2 feet and 2 inches ; length 40 feet; weight 25 ounces; 
value 618 pieces of money ".^^ 

Here, then, on a roll of silk of middle or late Han times prepared for 
export we have precise indications of its origin, dimensions, weight, 
and price, while exploration at Loulan provided further evidence that 
a width of about 50 cm was a standard export size.^' 

Yet in spite of the regular import, which went on for centuries, it 
is difficult to quote a single example of Chinese silk discovered in 

" Fitzgerald, op. clt., p. 191. 
1* Hudson, O. F., Europe and China, p. SI, 1931. 

"Stein, Aurel, Central Asian relics of China's ancient silk trade, Asia Major. Hiith Anniversary Volume^ 
p. 868, 1923. See also Serindla, pp. 373, 374, 1021. 
" Stein, Serindla, loc. cit., and pi. 37. 



ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 555 

Europe or the Near East.^^ The magnificent early medieval sUken 
textiles that we find in church and cathedral treasuries are not of 
the Far East but have been woven in Koman or in Persian lands. In 
the latter, weaving attained an intense activity, indicating access to 
large quantities of raw sUk. Though it was not untU the sixth 
century A. D. that the eggs of the silk moth (Bombyx mori) were 
brought to Byzantium, in Persia the silk-weaving industry appears 
to have been in a flourishing state in the fourth century.^® Once silk 
became common, fabrics bearing typical Sassanian designs were 
exported eastward in considerable bulk. It is only necessary to look 
at the plates in Stein's Serindia, portraying sUks discovered in Chinese 
Turkestan, to be convinced of this; indeed they became so popular 
that the Chinese produced figured silks in typical Sassanian style. 
The most striking evidence for this is the celebrated "hunter" silk of 
the seventh-eighth century from the treasure of the Horiuji Mon- 
astery at Nara in Japan (pi. 1). The composition is typically Persian, 
but the fabric was woven in China and seals with Chinese characters 
are seen on the hindquarters of the horses, in place of the Sassanian 
star.^* From Tun-huang, Stein has figured a number of silks of great 
beauty, showing confronted animals in Sassanian style but with 
Chinese modifications. Two head-pieces for banners, figured in 
Serindia (pi. 64), constitute particularly instructive examples of the 
adaptation of a western textile motif by Chinese hands; this silk is 
definitely hybrid, containing both obvious Sassanian and Chinese 
motifs. The design is composed of large circular medallions separated 
from each other by lozenge-shaped masses of elaborate foUage which 
almost fill the backgroimd. The outer part of the medallions is 
occupied by a double circular border with patterns of spaced elliptical 
rosettes outside and quatrefoUs inside. All this is distinctly Sassanian 
in type, but instead of the interior of the medallion being taken up 
by confronted animals it is occupied by four pairs of geese, quite 
naturalistic in treatment, disposed round a central somewhat stylized 
floral element. The geese are Chinese in treatment, so much so indeed 
that they immediately recalled to me the birds inlaid on one of the 
most beautiful of the lacquer boxes in the Shoso-in. This sUk was 
probably woven in China proper. 

" This is, perhaps, scarcely true at the present day, though it was so a couple of years ago. A very few 
pieces of silk judged to be of Chinese weave have been discovered in the West; work recently carried out 
at Palmyra— the great caravan town northeast of Damascus on the northern edge of the Syrian and Arabian 
desert— appears to have produced some examples (R. Pfister, Textiles de Palmyra, Paris, 1934), and it has 
recently been suggested that a piece of fifth century silk derived from a Rhine cathedral and now in 
Berlin may have been woven in China (V. Sylvan, Eine Chinesische Seide mit spatgriechschen Muster 
BUS dem 6. bis 6. Jahrhundert, Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, o. s., vol. 11, pp. 22, 27, 1935. 

" Dalton, O. M., Byzantine art and archeology, p. 684, 19U. 

» The "hunter" type is one of those popular Persian designs in which a mounted hero is shooting wild 
beasts, "the whole framed in a medallion and repeated over the surface, the medallions being interlaced or 
connected by small tangent circles, while the interspaces are filled with formal foliage. The huntsman is 
usually duplicated so that the composition is symmetrical, the two figures being usually back to back, but 
turning inwards to release the arrow" (O. M. Dalton, op. clt.. pp. 690-91). 



556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

Besides the heavy export of gold already alluded to, and in spite 
of the high rate of destruction which the lapse of 2,000 years entails, 
we have definite evidence in specimens surviving to our own time of 
the export from the Roman Orient of at least one kind of luxury 
article, namely glass. Apart from beads, concerning which I shall 
have more to say later, we can recognize nearly a dozen pieces of early 
"Mediterranean" ^° glass still existing in Korea, China, and Japan, 
and Stein found many fragments of glass (apparently Roman) during 
his excavations. Realizing when on a visit to the Far East a few 
years ago that glass might constitute an interesting feature of the 
incoming trade from the West, I took the opportunity of noting all 
the specimens of western glass that I was able to see, and also made 
inquiries as to the occurrence of glass beads and pendants and other 
small objects believed by the Chinese to be of considerable age. The 
results were sufficiently encouraging to lead to further study, and 
with the assistance of a number of kind friends — all specialists in 
some aspect of the subject, whether in archeology or chemistry — it 
has been possible to reach certain interesting conclusions.^^ 

In 1929, in Korea, I was shown two perfect glass vessels, pronounced 
by experts to have been made in the Roman Orient (no doubt Syria) 
about the fourth century or a little later, excavated by the Japanese 
from the royal graves of the kings of Silla, the kingdom which for at 
least seven centuries from about 100 B. C. occupied what is now 
southeastern Korea. One of these vessels, for the photograph of 
which I am indebted to Prof. S. Umehara, is represented in plate 
2, figure 1. These two specimens, with a large dish of "Roman," i. e., 
probably Syrian, glass (pi. 2, fig. 2) of the third-fifth centuries A. D., 
found in China (Honan) and now in the possession of Mrs. Margot 
Holmes, are probably the earliest western glass vessels hitherto dis- 

w We know nothing of the glass-making sites in classic lands in classic times. I therefore use "Mediter- 
ranean" as a convenient term for glass made by the old civilizations which existed on its shores or in vital 
contact with it, including Mesopotamia. 

" I would especially acknowledge my indebtedness to Mr. Horace Beck, whose unrivaled knowledge 
of beads end early glass has been invaluable, as well as to Mr. R. L. Hobson, Mr. Bernard Rackham, Prof. 
Perceval Yetts, and Mr. G. Eumorfopoulos for much kindly advice. On the chemical side I have had the 
advantage of unlimited help from the Scientific Laboratories of the Courlauld Institute of Art (University 
of London), so that it gives me the greatest pleasure to thank Prof. W. G. Constable, the Director of the 
Institute, and Dr. P. D. Ritchie, lately Head of the Scientific Department, for their interest and assistance. 
I am also greatly indebted to the Rt. Rev, Bishop White, formerly Bishop of Honan, for specimens and advice. 
I should also like to acknowledge help given by Dr. Otto Samson, formerly of the Ethnographic Museum, 
Hamburg, while for permission to reproduce figures 11 and 12 I must thank the authorities of the British 
Museum and of the India Office, respectively. 



ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 557 

covered in the Far East.^'^ Some three centuries later are the half- 
dozen specimens of "Arab" glass ^^ preserved in Japan in the Shoso-in 
at Nara. This houses the property of the Emperor Shomu, dedicated 
after his death by his pious queen Komio (A. D. 755) to the Todaiji 
monastery, to which in his lifetime he had been devoted. 

So much for glass vessels that were certainly imported, though 
whether by the transcontinental land route or by sea we cannot say. 
We can, however, affirm with confidence that glass beads made in the 
Roman Orient (including Egypt) were traded eastward along the 
land route. Our evidence for this is twofold: (1) The disco very by Stein 
in Chinese Turkestan in the neighborhood of the trade route of beads 
of western origin, as well as of other objects of glass or frit of western 
origin; (2) the recognition by Mr. Beck and myself of ''Mediterranean" 
eye-beads, of a type common in Egypt, among a large number of minor 
glass objects collected by Bishop White at Lo-yang (the capital of 
China during the later part of the Chow dynasty). These may 
perhaps be dated to the middle of the third century B. C, though 
Bishop White is inclined to place them two and a half centuries earlier. 

The Coptic (Egyptian) gilt beads discovered by Stein come from 
the Loulan and Niya sites in the Tarim desert, which were abandoned 
not later than the third and fourth centuries A. D.-* On the other hand, 
the Lo-yang beads recognized by Mr. Beck and myself as being Egyp- 
tian in origin are of an earlier type, which may be put down to any time 
within the last half of the last millennium B. C. The site where they 
were found in Cliina is generally dated to about 250 B. C, which agrees 
well with their Mediterranean date. The body of these beads is of 
pale green-blue glass — translucent rather than transparent — with 
inlaid "eyes" having a deep blue center surrounded by concentric 
white, brown, and white rings. Not only is there the strongest 
resemblance, amounting almost to identity, but Dr. Ritchie reports as 
the result of spectrographic analysis that the specimens "were qual- 
itatively and quantitatively practically identical in composition.'^ 

Beads of approximately the same date have also been found, which 
are not of glass but which copy the Egyptian glass beads to which I 

M I have not included in my examples of early western glass a vase in the Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, 
covered with lacquer or some similar substance, and decorated with Amazon heads, as this has not yet been 
adequately studied. Some account will be found in The Burlington Magazine, 1922, pp. 225-7. 

M Five of these specimens, figured in vol. 7 (pi. 1-5) of the Shoso-in Catalogue, may be considered to have 
been made in Mesopotamia, Persia, or possibly Alexandria and be dated to about A. D. 700. I take this 
opportunity of thanking Messrs. W. A. H. King and R. Hinks of the British Museum for information con- 
cerning the provenance of these early pieces of western glass. 

Besides these there are numerous smaller pieces of glass in the Shos5-in. I have not seen them myself, 
but owe my knowledge of them to Prof. Jiro Harada, whom I take this opportunity of thanking for his 
assistance. So numerous are these specimens that it seems unlikely that any considerable number are of 
western origin. They include 200 glass tips (blue, brown, yellow, and green) for the rods (jiku) on which are 
rolled sutra scripts, and about 62,500 glass beads, while many glass beads of different colors help to compose 
the headdresses worn by the Emperor Shomu and his consort. There are also pieces of bead work and 
lumps of unworked glass. 

'* It must not be thought that Stein's discoveries of Egyptian beads were limited to a particular type of 
Coptic bead. His finds include many other specimens of Roman-Egyptian type. 



558 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

have just referred. Presumably these were made for the poorer folk 
who could not afford anythmg so expensive as glass, which was 
certainly of high value in China. They have a composite core, and 
are covered with a bluish glaze, the "eyes" being produced by local 
heaping up of brown and white glazes to give the desired effect. 

It has been generally accepted on literary evidence that glass was 
not made in China until the fifth century A. D. Hirth quotes an 
historical work, the Pei-shih, to the effect that in the reign of the Wei 
Emperor T'ai Wu (A. D. 424-52) traders from the land of the Ta 
Yueh-chih (Bactria) came to his capital [in what is now Shansi], stating 
that by melting together certain minerals they could produce glass 
of any color. They were told to find the required material in the 
neighboring hills, and did this so successfully that the glass they 
produced was considered superior to that brought from the West. 
An older work, the Wei Annals, states that the foreigners came not 
from Ta Yiieh-chih but from Tien Chu-kuo, i. e., India.^^ Stein 
refers with approval to the above account in connection with his 
discoveries at Loulan,^^ nor does Hudson dissent,^^ but the facts given 
below indicate that glass was made in China at least as early as the 
third century B. C, if not earlier. This is but another example of 
what has often happened before, namely, a belief accepted on Hterary 
evidence has to give way to the findings of archeology. Nor do I base 
my conclusions solely on the specimens that I have handled or that 
have been analyzed, for much corroborative evidence will be found 
in the specimens described and figured by Bishop White in his volume, 
Tombs of Old Lo-yang. 

Tlie import of vessels of such fragile material as glass seems proof 
positive of the high value attached to this substance in China, and this 
view is supported by a number of glass objects of minor importance 
which have come to light in the last few years. Many of these are of 
Chinese manufacture, as is indicated by the presence in the glass of the 
element barium in substantial amount, a remarkable fact, since, so 
far as I can discover, barium, except in traces, is not known to occur in 
Western or Near Eastern glass, ancient or modern, until about 1884, 
when, as Mr. Beck informs me, it was purposely introduced as a 
constituent of some of the new glasses with high refractive index and 
low dispersion put on the market by Messrs. Schott of Jena.^^ 

The beads I shall discuss immediately ; other glass objects of interest 
are the ear ornaments (sometimes called capstan beads) and the 
ceremonial disks (imitating jade) called pi, placed under the pelvis 

'* Hirth, Chinesische Studien, p. 65, Miinchen u. Leipzig, 1890. 

M Serindia, p. 393. 

>' Europe and China, p. 98. 

" Analyses of two early beads containing barium wUl be found in a note contributed by Mr. Beck and 
myself to Nature, vol. 33, p. 982, 1934. One bead contained sufficient barium to give barium oxide 19.3 
'.percent. 



KOMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 559 

of a corpse, which with glass cross-pieces of swords are known from 
the graves of those who — as we may infer — could not afford jade. 

These beads, containing a high percentage of barium, together 
with a number of glass plaques, constitute a group of objects of 
Han or late Chou date, both beads and plaques being sometimes 
inlaid in bronze or silver. They all have in common the interesting 
feature that the glass body is inlaid with a number of small white 
rings, producing eyelets, with a white outline and colored center. 
Often, but by no means invariably, the white inlay is crescentic rather 
than circular, producing in the "eyelets" a peculiar revolving effect. 
In the majority of the beads the eyelets are collected into small 
groups surrounded by an inlaid circle of white glass, which gives an 
extremely handsome appearance against the generally dark blue or 
greenish blue of the glass constituting the body of the bead. These 





FiQUEE 4.— Bead (}) and plaque (c. i) of barium glass of Han or pre-Han period. 

beads are of high specific gravity, and spectrographic analysis of a 
number of beads and one plaque, all conforming more or less rigidly 
to the type described, showed that they all contained barium. 

Other pieces of glass, also of supposed Han date, do not contain 
barium, indicating the existence of more than one center of glass- 
making in northern China in early times.^ 

Let us now consider the origin of the pattern on these beautiful 
beads of barium-containing glass. The resemblance of many of the 
Lo-yang beads to certain beads of diverse and sometimes unknown 
origin in the Beck collection, as well as to some of definitely known 
European provenance in various museums, immediately suggests that 
the prototypes of the ornament of the Lo-yang beads are to be found 
in the West; and since, where their provenance is known, the majority 
of the European beads that I suppose to be the prototypes of the 
Chinese are recognized by archeologists as belonging to the Late Iron 
Age (though a few may date to the end of the Early Iron Age), we 
have a date for their spread eastward which accords singularly well 

" Prof. C. G. Cullis, whom I consulted with regard to the presence of barium ores in China, writes that 
he knows of no record of "straight" barium deposits in China, but that there are lead-zinc deposits and mines 
In plenty and that it is from such that he would expect the barium in the glass to be derived. Actually 
barium and lead are associated in a number of beads, etc., examined by Dr. Bitcbie. 



560 



AITNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAlSr INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



with the date of the Lo-yang beads. In fact it would be unreason- 
able not to admit the high probability that the Chinese beads are 
imitations, though not slavish imitations, of the European. Figure 
5 shows a number of Chinese beads of the Lo-yang type which I have 
been discussing, and also sketches of two of the presumed European 
prototypes. 

I have, perhaps, devoted overmuch space to glass, but no doubt 
many objects of beauty and rarity reached the Far East, either directly 
by caravan or ship or indirectly, passing from hand to hand, being 
copied and perhaps modified ua form in the process of transmission. 
The bull-headed rhyton is a case in point. I have discussed this 





Bologna 



Meditetrctnean 






China 

Figure 5.— Chinese beads of Han or pre-Han date, with prototypes of 'Mediterranean" origin. 

elsewhere,^° so that all I need say here is that there is so close a 
resemblance between classical, Seleucid or Parthian, and ancient 
Chinese examples that there can be no doubt that the rhytons of the 
Near and Far East have a common western origin. 

So far I have in the main dealt with events of the Han (206 B. C. — 
A. D. 220) and the centuries immediately before and after that period. 
The maximum importance of the silk route, as tapping Central Asia 
and bringing together the Hellenic and Chinese worlds, was, however, 
during the T'ang period (A. D. 618-907) to which in the main belong 
the treasures of the Shoso-in. Nevertheless "Romans" and Chinese 
never came into actual contact, owing to the skillful policy of the 
Parthians, who were determined not to lose their enormous profits as 
middlemen in the silk trade. Hudson quotes a passage from the 
Han Annals which, as he says, shows considerable insight: 

80 In Essays presented to Dr. R. R. Marett on his seventieth birthday, Oxford, 1936. 



ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 561 

The kings of Ta Ts'in [the Roman Orient] always desired to send embassies to 
China, but the Parthians wished to carry on trade with Ta Ts'in in Chinese silks 
and therefore cut them off from communication.^' 

The T'ang world, though no larger, was far better known and more 
easily traveled than that of any earlier period. We must picture 
a time when artistic influences from the Hellenic, Indian, and Iranian 
worlds were pouring into the T'ang capital, Ch'ang-an, frequented 
by members of the most diverse peoples: pedlars and grooms from 
Central Asia, "Greeks," Arabs, Persians, Japanese; Hindoos and 
Jungle men from India (the last presumably in charge of elephants). 
This list might be extended; it is no effort of the imagination, for at 
this period there was little Chinese exclusiveness. The T'ang was 
perhaps the age at which plastic art reached its apogee; it was also a 
time of great wealth and refinement, in which tomb furniture kept all 
its old importance, and since many of the foreigners were servants, or 
in one form or another ministered to the luxury of the wealthier 
Chinese, there has been opened to us within the last quarter of a 
century ^^ a gallery of plastic portraits excellent in fidelity and often 
of great beauty, which show us not only the Chinese of that day but 
also the many foreigners within their gates. Some even exhibit a 
touch of caricature — the Armenoid (so-called Jewish) nose seems to 
have been a source of amusement even in T'ang China (pi. 3, fig. 1). 

Nor were these foreigners only servants; we know of monks and 
warriors, the latter bearing treasure, come from afar to worship the 
Buddha. At Chotcho, a Turfan site, there have been discovered 
religious frescoes, paintings on stucco covering the walls of cave 
temples, of the same class (though differing in style) as those exhibited 
in the Oriental Gallery of the British Museum. The most imposing 
of those discovered at Chotcho have been published by von Le Coq,^^ 
and among the paintings of monks and adorers of the Buddha are 
represented types that clearly do not belong to the Mongol race. 
Whether these are in any instance actual portrait studies it is impos- 
sible to say; I have the impression that they are best regarded as 
generalized abstractions, in which those features considered to be 
distinctive of each type are emphasized. 

Other evidence of the reciprocal influence of West and East is 
provided by the frequency of classical designs on Chinese ceramics 
and by the export westward of Chinese porcelain, which for centuries 
affected the pot fabrics of the Near East. Western influence is well 
illustrated by the vase in the Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, repro- 

" Hudson, op. cit., p. 84. 

'2 T'ang grave figures, if known to Chinese dealers before this date, were not regarded as of any worth; 
they were not collected by the Chinese and did not reach western collections. It was only when, in the 
course of building railways In northern China, grave mounds were disturbed without disaster to the viola- 
tors that grave-goods began to be collected and shipped westward in quantity. There are still Chinese 
collectors who will have nothing to do with these figures, fearing the results. 

«» Chotcho, Berlin, 1913. 



562 



ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



duced in figure 6. This typically T'ang piece bears in relief a dancing 
figure of classical type, as well as foliate ornament obviously derived 
from a classical design. Of the export of T'ang porcelain to the 
West, abundant evidence is provided by the excavations at Samarra 
(some 70 miles above Baghdad), where numerous examples of Chinese 
stoneware and porcelain have been excavated under conditions that 
leave no doubt as to their date, namely the ninth century and for the 
most part the middle of that century.^* It is worth noting that many 
of the sherds of local ware (pottery) imitate imported Chinese pieces, 

and — to go beyond our period — that such 
imitations continue in the Near East for 
several centuries, so that the mounds of 
Fostat (Old Cairo) abound not only with 
fragments of early Ming celadons but also 
with local imitations in faience. 

In this connection it is well to em- 
phasize how much more the Chinese of 
the T'ang period knew of the western 
world than the western world knew of 
China. Full accounts of Fu Lin (By- 
zantium), and of the Arabs and their 
Prophet have come down to us in Chinese 
writings. It is not surprising that the 
Chinese were well informed concerning 
Islam, for the Emperor T'ai Tsung took 
into his service the son of the last king 
of Persia after the Muhammadan con- 
quest of that country. There is an ex- 
cellent account of Byzantium, obviously 
the work of a Chinese traveler. He 
even mentions the mechanical devices 
that were so much in favor in the eastern 
Roman capital. 

Fu Lin is the ancient Ta Tsin. It is situated on the Western Sea. To the 
southeast it borders Persia, to the northeast is the territory of the western Turks. 
The land is very populous and there are many towns. The walls of the capital 
are of dressed stone, and more than 100,000 families reside in the citj'. There is 
a gate 200 feet high, entirely covered with bronze [the Golden Gate]. In the 
imperial palace there is a human figure of gold which marks the hours by striking 
bells. The buildings are decorated with glass and crystal, gold, ivory and rare 
woods. The roofs are made of cement, and are flat. In the heat of summer 
machines worked by water power carry up water to the roof, which is used to 
refresh the air by falling in showers in front of the windows. 




Figure 6.— T'ang ewer with classical 
figure, Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto. 



«* Sarre, F., Die Keramik von Samarra, being vol. 2 of Die Ausgrabimgen von Samarra, pp. 54-62, 101, 
Berlin, 1925, and plates 23-29. Samarra was founded in A. D. 836 and apparently abandoned in 8S3. 



ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST SELIGMAN 563 

Twelve ministers assist the King in the government. When the King leaves 
his palace he is attended by a man carrying a bag, into which any person is free to 
drop petitions. The men wear their hair cut short and are clothed in embroidered 
robes which leave the right arm bare. The women wear their hair in the form of a 
crown. The people of Fu Lin esteem wealth, and they are fond of wine and sweet- 
meats. On every seventh day [the Christian Sunday] no work is done. 

From this country come byssus, coral, asbestos, and many other curious prod- 
ucts. They have very skilful conjurors who can spit fire from their mouths, pour 
water out of their hands, and drop pearls from their feet. Also they have skilful 
physicians who cure certain diseases by extracting worms from the head.^^ 

Let me now return to the caravan route that kept the T'ang capital 
in touch with the West. Besides objects of rarity and value! that 
passed in bulk or from hand to hand along the highway between the 
Near and Far East, there were those far more important impondera- 
bilia — religion and story. It is not my purpose to discuss the former, 
but I must mention a piece of painted wood, discovered by Stein at 
Dandan Uliq in the Takla Makan desert to the east of KJiotan and 
now in the British Museum, which shows the astounding mixture in the 
religious art of old Khotan. On both sides Bodhisattvas are painted. 
That on the obverse is a three-headed deity in full Indian style; the 
figure on the reverse (pi. 3, fig. 2) affords the most strildng contrast, 
presenting, in spite of its four arms, secular Persian treatment in 
style and accessories. 

The clue to the significance of these two paintings was discovered 
by Stein many years later when examining the mural paintings of a 
ruin in southeastern Persia, dating to about the seventh century 
A. D. The Persian bodhisattva represents Rustam, the hero of the 
Persian national epic, and the three-headed figure is a non-Persian 
rendering of one of the demonic adversaries conquered by Rustam and 
forced into submission to his king.^^ Here, then, is a strildng absorp- 
tion of Iranian iconography into the Buddhism of the Far East. 

Passing to story, Laufer has shown that the legend of the Diamond 
Valley reached China from the west. It must be remembered that in 
the earlier periods the number of gem-stones known to the Chinese 
was exceedingly limited, while the cut jewel with its qualities of luster 
and sparkle did not yet exist, so that the beautiful stones which 
reached the Far East in small quantities from the Hellenistic Roman 
Orient must have created a profound impression. Laufer points out 
that the oldest version of the western legend is contained in the 
writings of Epiphanius, Bishop of Constantia in Cyprus (c. 315-403): 

In his discourse on the 12 jewels forming the breastplate of the High Priest of 
Jerusalem, the following tale is narrated of the hyacinth. The theater of action 
is a deep valley in a desert of great Scythia, entirely surrounded by rocky moun- 

" Fitzgerald, op. cit., pp. 323-i. To a question as to how closely this account could be dated, Mr. Fitz- 
gerald expressed the opinion that, while accurate dating was impossible, it could probably be attributed 
to the seventh or eighth century. 

»8 Stein, On Central Asian Tracks, pp. 64-65, 1933. 

114728—39 37 



564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

tains rising straight like walls; so that from their summits the bottom of the val- 
ley is not visible, but only a sullen mist-like chaos. The men despatched there in 
search of those stones by the kings, who reside in the neighborhood, slay sheep, 
strip them of their skins, and fling them from the rocks into the immense chaos of 
the valley. The stones then adhere to the flesh of the sheep. The eagles that 
loiter on the cliffs above scent the flesh, pounce down upon it in the valley, carry 
the carcasses off to devour them, and thus the stones remain on the top of the 
mountains. The convicts condemned to gather the stones go to the spots where 
the flesh of the sheep has been carried away by the eagles, find and take the 
stones.^^ 

The Chinese text contained in the Liang ssii kung chi (Memoirs of 
the four Worthies of the Liang dynasty) gives the following account: 

In the period T'ien-kien (502-520) of the Liang dynasty. Prince Kie of Shu 
(Sze-ch'uan) visited the Emperor Wu, when he told his story: "In the west, 
arriving at the Mediterranean, there is in the sea an island of 200 square miles 
(li). On this island is a large forest abundant in trees with precious stones, and 
inhabited by over 10,000 families. * * * In a northwesterly direction from 
the island is a ravine hollowed out like a bowl, more than a thousand feet deep. 
They throw flesh into this valley. Birds take it up in their beaks, whereupon 
they drop the precious stones." ^^ 

This account, for all its brevity, is immediately intelHgible in the 
light of the western legend, with which it coincides in its essentials — 
the deep valley into which raw flesh is thrown as bait for the birds, 
who with it carry the stones into accessible positions. Laufer's con- 
clusions are then justified, the Liang version is directly traceable to 
that of Epiphanius, and was transmitted to China from Fu-lin, part 
of the Roman Empire.^® 

So, too, Hellenistic and Chinese folklore mingle in the ideas trans- 
mitted from west to east, distorted, and reflected back again, con- 
cerning asbestos and the salamander. Strabo and Dioscorides both 
knew the plain facts about asbestos, its mineral origin and its fire-re- 
sisting property; so did the Chinese of Han times. It is only later 
that western beliefs concerning the salamander and the phoenix being 
born of fire or uninjured by fire are confused with asbestos cloth, the 
latter being further confounded with the real bark cloth of Malaya, 
which the Chinese knew from their travels in Java and Cambodia, so 
that finally the incombustible cloth really obtained from the west is 
either the plumage or pelt of western fire-loving mythical birds or 
beasts. 

These examples show the diffusion and penetrative power — if I 
may use the phrase — of ideas and beliefs of a curious and recondite 
character. The examples I have given have nothing to do with the 
fundamental needs or desires of mankind, though no doubt the won- 

"Laufer, Berthold, The diamond, a study in Chinese and Hellenistic folk-lore, Field Museum of Natural 
History, Publication 184, vol. 15, No. 1, p. 9, Chicago, 1915. 
" Laufer, op. cit., pp. &-7. 
"Laufer, op. cit., p. 10. 



KOMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 565 

ders of far off lands have always had a strong appeal. How much 
stronger will this appeal be when the ideas transmitted have to do 
with the most deep-seated of all longings, the defeat of old age and 
death. 

We may, I think, regard it as a priori unlilcely that the Elixir Vitae 
was of Near Eastern origin, since there is no mention of anything of 
the sort in the innumerable Egyptian texts that have come down to 
us; nor is any such substance recorded in the cuneiform texts of the 
Sumerians or Assyrians.*" On the other hand, there is the general 
belief that alchemy (the transmutation of metals) arose among 
Alexandrine Greeks in the early centuries of our era, later reaching 
central Europe via the Arabs. In Alexandria transmutation had a 
philosophical basis; moreover the earliest Greek alchemical writings 
abound in references to Near Eastern authorities and traditions,*^ but 
although the Ley den papyrus of the end of the third century, from 
Thebes, indicates how jewellers may imitate gold and silver, there is 
no reference to the Elixir, and in the West it was only later that the 
substance for transmuting metals was considered to have the property 
of prolonging life indefinitely. 

The earliest alchemical writers who have left literary remains lived 
at a period extending from the third to the fifth centuries,*^ when 
Alexandria was still a great commercial metropolis. A large portion 
of the Chinese trade reached Alexandria; and just as legends concern- 
ing the Valley of Diamonds and asbestos were transmitted to the Far 
East, so Far Eastern ideas concerning the Elixir might well be dis- 
cussed in this western city of philosophers. In China such ideas were 
already well developed centuries before the beginning of the Christian 
era, for Ch'in Shih Huang Ti (249-210 B. C), the "First Emperor" 
is recorded as having occupied much of his later life in the search for 
immortality, to be gained by means of a magic drug believed to exist 
in the three Isles of the Immortals in the Eastern Sea. These islands, 
P'eng-lai and its feUows, were not so very remote from the home of 
mankind, and they had been seen by many though it was impossible 
to land. Having come under the influence of two celebrated magicians 
the Emperor organized an elaborate expedition in search of the islands. 
The expedition did not return, but this failure did not daunt the Em- 
peror, and to the end of his days he sought to discover some means of 
contact with the immortals and to gain access to their elixir. 

It should be pointed out that long before this, jade had been regarded 
as prolonging life and preserving the tissues from corruption — as indi- 

<» The large collection of magical texts, coming down to Coptic times, published by Francois Lexa under 
the title La Magie dans I'Egypte antique, Paris, 1925, contains no text referring either to the Elixir or to 
the transmutation of metals. With regard to Mesopotamia, my statement is made on the authority of 
Dr. Campbell Thompson. 

<• Encyclopaedia Britannica, 14th ed., 1929, s. v. Alchemy. 

" Stillman, John M., The story of early chemistry, p. 150, New York, 1924. 



566 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

cated by its use in the burials of the great.*^ So too, gold, and espe- 
cially gold obtained by transmutation, could be used to assure im- 
mortality: 

[The wizard Li] Shao-chtin said to the Emperor [Wu Ti of Han]: "Sacrifice to 
the stove [tsao] and you will be able to summon 'things' [i. e., spirits]. Summon 
spirits and you will be able to change cinnabar powder into yellow gold. With 
this yellow gold you may make vessels to eat and drink out of. You will then 
increase your span of life. Having increased your span of life, you will be able 
to see the hsien of P'eng-lai that is in the midst of the sea. Then you may perform 
the sacrifices feng and shan and escape death". *^ ** 

The Elixir Vitae is also mentioned in another important work, the 
Ts'an T'ung Ch'i, written under the pseudonym Wei Po-yang in the 
second century A. D. Waley thinks it likely that the text may have 
been doctored to give an alchemical interest later, i. e., in the fourth 
century. This view does not imply any considerable rearrangement, 
for only one of the 90 sections into which the text is arranged deals 
specifically with the Elixir, and this in the most definite manner: 

Gold by nature does not rot or decay; 

Therefore it is of aU things most precious. 

When the artist [i. e., alchemist] includes it in his diet 

The duration of his life becomes everlasting 

******* 

When the golden powder enters the five entrails, 

A fog is dispelled, like rain-clouds scattered by wind. 

Fragrant exhalations pervade the four limbs; 

The countenance beams with well-being and joy. 

Hairs that were white all turn to black; 

Teeth that had fallen grow in their former place. 

The old dotard is again a lusty youth; 

The decripit crone is again a young girl.''* 

We cannot say how early the belief in the life-giving virtue of gold 
may have arisen; the first text given above, though attributed to the 
first century B. C, may be a hundred years or more later,** but it is 
obvious that the belief must have existed at an earlier date than the 
text. Linking this to what we know of the Elixir in the West, it seems 
reasonable to infer that the belief originated in China,*^ for these texts 

" Space is lacking to describe the virtues of jade: though the product of the earth, it is at the same time the 
essence of Heaven, perfected under high spiritual influence (Laufer, Jade, p. 148, 1912). Appropriate em- 
blems of jade were placed upon or within the orifices of the body, e. g., the cicada in the mouth, and cere- 
monial objects of jade were placed within the coffin in contact with the body. Naturally it was only the 
rich whose grave-furnishings were of jade; I have already alluded to the glassp; (p. 558) of the less well-to-do. 

" Waley, A., Notes on Chinese alchemy, Bull. School of Oriental Studies, vol. 6, p. 2, 1930-2. Chinese 
words have been omitted and only their transliteration given. 

« Waley, op. cit., p. 11. It might have been expected that jade rather than gold would have been cited 
in the texts quoted. Mr. Waley has suggested to me that the admiration for gold was adopted from the 
northern nomads at the time when their costume and military tactics were taken over by the Chinese. 

« Waley, op. cit., p. 3. 

*' In arguing that the Elixir Vitae as known to the western world since the early centuries of our era origi- 
nated in China, I do not ignore the view put forward by the late Prof. Sir Grafton Elliot Smith and Dr. W. 
J. Perry that all "life givers" had their origin in the beliefs of Ancient Egypt, which spread across Eurasia 
at a comparatively early date. I would, however, point out that even if this view be held the diSusion 
westwards of a conception which was flourishing in the Far East in the latter half of the first millennium 
B. O.^ican still be accepted. 



ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST — SELIGMAN 567 

that I have cited, coupled with what we know of the accredited proper- 
ties of jade, seem to prove the existence of a strongly held belief in the 
Elixir Vitae in the Far East at a time when there is no evidence for 
the existence of this belief in Europe. Moreover it seems probable 
that more evidence in favor of this view might be derived from a new 
examination of Chinese sources, for Laufer's great work on jade was 
pubUshed m 1912. 

The last matters to which I shall refer are those two great gifts of 
China to the West, paper and printing, the latter for practical purposes 
impossible without the former. Up to the end of the Chou dynasty 
writing was done with a bamboo pen upon slips of bamboo or wood. 
Then came the writing brush of hair. This is the traditional Chinese 
belief, but the modern view as set forth by Yetts is that brush cal- 
ligraphy existed in the Shang-Yin period, than which we have no 
earlier relics. Referring to two Shang-Yin inscriptions, which he 
reproduces, he denies that the "spontaneity and modulation of their 
line" makes possible any other agency. Certain pictograms in the 
archaic script are adduced, which clearly represent a hand holding a 
brush. These come from a Honan bone and a Shang-Yin bronze.^* 
Moreover, recent excavations near An-yang have brought to light 
three fragments of bone, used by Shang-Yin diviners, on which there 
are remains of writing done with ink and brush.^* Paper, or near- 
paper, was invented about the end of the first century A. D., tradi- 
tionally in the year 105. Rag paper dating from the middle of the 
second century was discovered by Stein at Tun Huang in the form of 
eight letters on paper (together with letters on silk and wood). Dis- 
coveries at Turfan date to the end of the fourth century. These, 
together with later documents from Turkestan, show that the paper 
was manufactured from both raw fiber and worked-up material, e. g., 
the remains of old textiles and fishing nets, a discovery indicating that 
it was not the Muslims of Samarkand who, as commonly held, origi- 
nated rag paper: 

Rag paper, supposed till 1885 to have been invented in Europe in the fifteenth 
century, supposed tiU 1911 to have been invented by the Arabs of Samarkand in 
the eighth century, was carried back to the Chinese of the second century, and the 
Chinese record, stating that rag paper was invented in China at the beginning of 
the second century, was confirmed.'" 

Gradually the Chinese improved the composition and face of their 
papers, so that it was a perfected invention that passed from the 
Chinese to the Arabic world. Thence it reached Baghdad in the 

«» The George Eumorfopoulos Collection, Catalogue of the Chinese and Corean Bronzes, etc., vol. 1, see 
especially pp. 15-17, London, 1929. 

" Tung Tso-pin in Studies presented to Ts'al Yuan P'el on his Sixty-fifth Birthday, pp. 417, 418, fig. 7, 
Pei-p'lng, 193.3. 

«• Carter, Thomas Francis, The Invention of printing in China and its spread westward, p. 6, New York, 
1931. To this work I gratefully acknowledge my indebtedness for this short account of early paper and 
printing. 



568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

eighth century, Egypt soon after, whence via Morocco (c. 1100) to 
Spain, and so to Central Europe, having also reached Italy via Libya 
and Sicily. 

Without considering the part that seal-stones and rubbings from 
graved stones (lithography in its simplest form) may have played in 
the evolution of printing, let me say that there may be some doubt as 
to the accuracy of a reference to printing in China at the end of the sixth 
century, and emphasize the fact that the earliest datable block-print 
extant is of A. D. 770 and comes from Japan. Block-printing must, 
however, have been practised in China sujQ&ciently long before this for 
it to have attained such considerable development in Japan, since the 
relics of A. D. 770 (for a number have been preserved) are of the series 
of one million charms ordered by the Empress Shotoku. Examples of 
these preserved in the Horiuji monastery at Nara in Japan, in the 
British Museum, and in the museum at Leipzig, show that the strips of 
paper used are about 18 inches long by 2 wide, each bearing 30 columns 
of 5 characters each.°^ 

Japan produced no books at this time, or if she did they have not 
come down to us. The earliest printed book (i. e., scroll) that can be 
dated with certainty is Chinese and was produced in May 868 — no 
primitive piece of printing like the Japanese charms but a superb 
version of one of the holiest of Buddhist texts, the Diamond Sutra, 
though there is reason to believe that a copy of the Kuan Yin Sutra 
in the British Museum may be even earUer, of 8th century date 
(pi. 4). 

The T'ang dynasty came to its end within a hundred years of the 
printing of the Diamond Sutra, and it is not my purpose to attempt to 
carry my sketch of the contacts of West and East beyond the years of 
that dynasty. A kindly critic has suggested that I should conclude 
with a summary. This seems unnecessary, for I have done little 
more than touch on each of the subjects that I have put before you. 
I may, however, express the opinion that early contacts between 
Europe and the Far East will, as knowledge advances, prove to have 
been far more numerous than has hitherto been generally accepted. 

" Carter op. cit., p. 36. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Seligman 



PLATE 1 




^1^^ mm 




Hunter Silk. Horiuji Monastery. Nara. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Seligman 



PLATE 2 













7- 


i 






Jl 




0^ 




i^^ 


VM 




^5 
















-■ 




1 






, 






1 




f 






il 


1 


1 


P 




!■ 


Mm 


m 








' ff ' 


mi. 


e?^ 







1. Glass Bowl, Silla Royal Tombs, Korea. 




2. Glass Bowl From honan. Northern China. 



AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL 
EARTHWORKS AT OLD CH'ANG-AN ' 



By Carl Whiting Bishop 
Freer Gallery of Art, Washington 



[With four plates] 

Not least in interest among subjects of archeological study is that 
which has to do with the types of fortification constructed by organized 
communities in the past. These, once the habit of town-dwelHng had 
become fixed, seem to have tended to fall into two major classes: the 
arx, acropolis, or citadel, one of whose functions it was to provide 
a temporary refuge in emergency ; and the enceinte or city-wall proper, 
designed to afford permanent protection to the group living within it. 
Sometimes the two forms occur in combination; more often, singly. 

The first type we frequently, though by no means always, find situ- 
ated on a height; the acropoUs of Athens and the Capitoline Hill at 
Rome are famihar examples. The second class, on the other hand, 
seems to have developed more especially in those alluvial plains on 
which sprang up the great river-valley civilizations of the ancient world. 
To it belong the tremendous earthworks constructed slightly over 
2,000 years ago about the city of Ch'ang-an (meaning "Long Peace"; 
possibly Ptolemy's "Sera Metropohs" ^), the capital of the then 
recently established Chinese empire. 

It was in 221 B. C. — the year, it will be recalled, when the Car- 
thaginian troops in Spain proclaimed Hannibal their commander-in- 
chief — that at the opposite end of the Old World the great conqueror 
Ch'in Shih Huang-ti ^ set up, on the ruins of a very ancient and sepa- 
ratist Chinese feudahsm, a centraUzed and bureaucratic empire which 
ia many details of its organization strikingly recalls the one estabhshed 
some three centuries earher in western Asia by Darius the Great. 

1 The following account contains material included in a report, now in course of preparation, dealing with 
the investigations conducted in China during the period 1923-1934 by the Freer Gallery of Art, Washing- 
ton, D. C. Reprinted by permission from Antiquity, vol. 12, No. 45, March 1938. 

' On this identification, see e. g., Grousset, Ren6, Histoire de rExtr6me-0rient, vol. 1, p. 242 and note 5, 
Paris, 1929. 

3 This name, or rather title, means literally "First Emperor of the Ch'in (Dynasty)"; he is mentioned, in 
another connection, in Antiquity, vol. 11, p. 27, March 1937. 

569 



570 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 

Shih Huang- ti's dynasty, the Ch'in * (or Ts'in, as the name is some- 
times spelled in English), fell a very few years after his death. There 
ensued a brief period of civil war and general turmoil. Out of this 
there emerged as victor a low-bom but nevertheless very able adven- 
turer who thereupon founded the Former or Western Han Dynasty 
(206 B. C.-A. D. 7).^ This was the man usually known in later 
history as Han Kao-tzu (his posthmnous title) ; he played a part com- 
parable to that of Octavius not quite two centures later in putting an 
end to a period of civil strife and setting up a stable government. He 
at first thought of fixing the capital of his newly won dominions a 
short distance south of the YellowRiver, in what is today the province 
of Honan. Ultimately, however, he estabhshed his permanent official 
residence some 200 miles farther to the west, in central Shensi province. 
The city which he thus founded soon became one of the greatest of 
its day, anywhere in the world. Ch'ang-an during tbe period of its 
prosperity may have been rivalled in population and perhaps in extent 
by certain cities of the Near East and of northern India; but Europe 
certainly had nothing as yet even remotely comparable to it. 

Then as always, however, Chinese architecture was essentially one 
of wood and terre pise. Hence the ancient capital of the Hans has left 
us, above groimd at least, but few remains of itself. Of these the most 
notable are portions of its great rampart of soHdly tamped earth, and 
what is said to have been the foundation-mound of the principal build- 
ing in the imperial palace-enclosure — the celebrated Wei Yang Kung, 
of whose almost fabulous splendor and magnificence many tales are 
told. 

The site of the ancient city hes 4 or 5 miles northwest of Hsi-an Fu 
(sometimes spelled "Sianfu" in English), the capital of the province 
of Shensi, and a Httle south of the historic Wei, a western affluent of 
the Yellow River. The country hereabout is an intensively cultivated 
alluvial plain which rises into hills some distance to the south. 

The morning was misty, the visibility poor; but as we approached 
the site we began to see ahead of us a lofty and now shapeless mound, 
obviously artificial in origin. This stood, we found, at the south- 
eastern corner of the ancient city. Closer examination showed that it 
was composed of successive layers of terre pis6, rammed very hard 
and averaging about 4 inches in thickness.^ 

* From this word almost certainly came our name "China" Those who deny this (usually on the ground 
that the name "China" antedates the founding of the Oh'in empire) forget that the state of Ch'in was estab- 
lished several centuries earlier, andlong before Shih Huang-ti's time had already annexed the eastern termini 
of both the great land-routes linking the Far East with the Occident, the one by way of Central Asia, the 
other through Farther India. 

> The Han Dynasty, it should be remarked, was the first Chinese ruling house to spring from the ranks 
of the common people. The founders of all the earlier ones had belonged to the turbulent, hard-drinking, 
chariot-fighting feudal nobility, the possessors of the Chinese Bronze Age civilization (in regard to the latter 
point cf. Antiquity, vol. 7, p. 404, December 1933). 

» Recent excavations at the two opposite ends of the Asiatic continent have shown that the use of terre 
pis6 construction dates back, in China at least to the second millenium B. C. and in the Near East con- 
siderably earlier still. 



A]Sr ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL BISHOP 571 

The present height of the mound we estimated at around 50 feet. 
That it had once been surmounted by a large building of some sort, 
presumably a wooden castle, was indicated by the occurrence, both 
on its sides and in the loose earth at its foot, of large gray unglazed 
roofing-tiles of the kind used in China during the Han period. Lying 
all about was much broken pottery, in part likewise of Han date. On 
top of the mound was a ruinous square beacon-tower of gray burnt 
brick ; this structure, of a type still to be seen all over northern China 
and formerly used in the transmission of smoke or fire signals, was 
probably not over 3 or 4 centuries old. From it wo could see, stretch- 
ing away to north and to west, the remains of the ancient city's 
great ramparts of earth. These, though in some places still quite well 
preserved, were for the most part much eroded, terraced for cultiva- 
tion, and here and there almost completely dug away.^ Their entire 
perimeter we could not attempt to trace, for want of time. Old 
Chinese maps suggest, however, that their circuit is somewhere around 
15 or 16 miles; they indicate too that the old city was roughly quad- 
rangular in plan. 

Part at least of the material composing these ramparts was pretty 
surely taken from what was now a dry moat or ditch which we saw 
just outside them. This we found, at the point where we measured 
it, 160 feet wide, with a present average depth, even though now 
much silted up, of nearly 10 feet. If it had ever served as a wet 
moat, the water to fill it must have come from a stream, shown on 
old Chinese maps but now no longer in evidence, which seems to have 
flowed into it near the southwestern corner of the city. 

Immediately west of the great corner mound just mentioned, there 
was in the south wall of the ancient city a wide opening through which 
ascended (see post) the cart road by which we had come out from 
Hsi-an Fu. This gap provided us with an excellent cross-section of 
the rampart as well as a convenient opportunity for measuring 
its profile. 

It proved to have been constructed throughout of layers of terre pis6 
identical with those already mentioned, and was quite without any- 
thing in the way of a revetment. Closely similar in their method of 
construction, except that they are usually provided with outer and 
sometimes also inner facings of large gray burnt brick laid in lime 
plaster, are the walls of many existing Chinese cities (pis. 1, 2). 
Occasionally, as for instance in the "Eed Basin" country of the 
western province of Szechuan, where an easily worked red sandstone 
is readily procurable, these revetments are of dressed stone laid in 
regular courses of equal thickness, recalling the opus isodomum of 

? Such accumulations of earth, on account of their high ammonia content, are much used by the northern 
Chinese peasantry as fertilizer. Analogous practices are found elsewhere, as for example in the terremare 
of north Italy and the terpen of west Friesland. 



572 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



Vitruvius. In general, however, the walls of Chinese cities have 
always been of earth, in later centuries generally, though not always, 
faced with brick. Significant of this is the fact that the ideograph 
for "city-wall" ^ has as its determinative or "radical" the character 
for "earth." The original Great Wall of China, constructed a few 
years prior to the founding of Ch'ang-an and just at the time of the 
Second Punic War, was likewise of earth, as indeed are long portions 
of it still (cf. pi. 3). 

The ancient rampart which we were studying rested directly upon 
the original surface of the soil, without the interposition of a stone 
plinth or a damp-course of any kind. Its thickness at the base we 
found to be 350 feet. Protruding from the western side of the afore- 
mentioned gap, near the top of the wall, were remains of what had 
evidently been a drainage-system of gray unglazed tile; for the region, 
though in general comparatively dry, experiences torrential summer 
rains. At the foot of the rampart's outer face, still quite steep 
(owing to the durability of the terre pise) even after the lapse of 20 
centuries, we found traces of a narrow berm (see fig. 1, drawing of 




« 5 ' 

f o! 



350 rce 1 >I 

Figure l.— Drawing of profile of rampart, old Ch'ang-an; suggested restoration in broken lines. 

cross-section of rampart), now almost worn away. It may originally 
have been 15 feet wide, possibly even less; in any case barely enough, 
it seemed, to withstand the thrust of the vast mass of rammed earth 
above and behind it. 

The vertical height of the outer face, above the berm, we found to 
average 25 feet in its present state. We noticed particularly that 
there were in the line of the wall none of those rectangular projections 
or salients, often loosely called "bastions," seen in many of the 
Chinese city walls built during more recent centuries (see pi. 4). On 
the contrary, at old Ch'ang-an we saw only the long straight curtain- 
wall, with no provision, save possibly at the city gates (see post), for 
the directing of a flank fire against bodies of assailants. 

Extending back from the brink of the outer face of the rampart 
were the remains of a platform or parapet of pise, once no doubt level 
but now much cut up by erosion and cultivation. This was 42 feet 
across at the widest of several points where we measured it; while 
in places its now very irregular inner edge rose as much as 10 feet above 



8 The same character, pronounced ch'6ng, also means "city;" for according to the traditional Chinese 
way of thinking, the wall is what makes the city. 



AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL — BISHOP 573 

the terreplein behind it. The latter sloped gradually and on the 
whole evenly downward to the general level of the area inside the 
walls; there was no sudden change of profile to indicate where the 
terreplein had terminated and the inner face of the rampart had 
begun (cf. fig. 1). That this did not represent the original condition, 
however, appeared likely, for the following reasons. 

We found, in the first place, that this long interior slope was for 
the most part covered wdth uncompacted earth, in places to a depth 
of 4 or 5 feet and obviously washed down from the parapet above. 
Secondly, at certain points beneath this layer were to be seen portions 
of what appeared to be a continuous stratum containing Han roofing- 
tiles, bricks, and potsherds and resting directly upon the tamped earth 
of the original agger. These facts suggested, first, that the top of the 
parapet had once been somewhat more than 10 feet higher (see ante) 
than the terreplein; and, second, that on the latter had once stood 
buildings, erected presumably on a level, not a sloping, surface. Thus 
we might reasonably suppose that the rampart as originally constucted 
had had, in addition to a parapet, a true terreplein and a distinct inner 
face — the latter doubtless much lower than the outer one and now 
completely masked by detritus washed down from above. 

As already stated, the cart road from Hsi-an Fu entered the ancient 
city enclosure through a wide gap at the eastern end of the southern 
wall. This opening, we felt certain for several reasons, indicated the 
spot where once had stood a city -gate. None of the old Chinese maps 
of Ch'ang-an appears to show a gate at this spot; nor does it seem 
very probable that one should have been placed there ; for gates do not 
ordinarily occur at the corners of Chinese city walls. Possibly the 
gap in question may have been cut through the rampart at some time 
subsequent to the original building of the wall. 

Be that as it may, the track here mounted quite steeply and once 
inside the enceinte turned abruptly to the left or west. This change 
in direction brought it parallel to a low rise in the ground directly 
across the opening and a short distance inside or north of it. Whether 
this rise represented what had originally been an earthen wall forming 
part of the defences of the gate, we were unable to determine by inspec- 
tion alone. But had there been such a wall, its effect would have been 
to compel an attacking force, once it had broken through the gate, to 
turn sharply to the left and thus expose its right or unshielded side to 
an enfilading fire from the defenders.^ 

For some 400 yards or so to the west of the above gap we found the 
gigantic agger displaying in general much the same profile and dimen- 
sions as those just described. Then came a second wide opening, 

» Shields formed part of the equipment of the Chinese warriors of the time, as shown, for example, on the 
famous Han "reliefs" (in reality incised drawings on stone slabs) from the province of Shantung and by 
numerous passages in the surviving historical records. 



574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

where, we felt sure, there had formerly stood another gate. Flanking 
this on either side, on top of the rampart were the badly eroded 
stumps of two mounds. On these, it appeared likely, had once stood 
twin gate towers, doubtless of wood ; for in the earth about their bases 
we found embedded numbers of large roofing tiles of the kind already 
mentioned. Such gate towers seem sometimes at least to have been 
joined by a covered gaUery of wood extending from side to side above 
the top of the gate proper. 

The Chinese gate tower of later centuries, as is well known, has 
been a single structure built directly over the opening in the city wall, 
usually in two or three stories, with the upturned roof corners so 
familiar on Chinese buildings. ^° What appears to have been the older 
type, with tmn towers flanking the gateway, is still, however, to be 
seen in a few provincial towns. 

A road passed through this second gap also. Upon entering the 
city it turned, like the other, at a right angle toward the west. Here, 
too, this abrupt change in direction seemed to have been determined 
by a transverse rise in the ground just inside the opening. 

Extending from this second gap directly across the moat to the 
counterscarp we found what seemed once to have been a causeway, 
now much broken down. This, as far as we could tell, had not been 
constructed of terre pise, but had been merely a strip of the original 
son, left untouched when the moat was dug; it thus recalled in a way 
the "interrupted ditches" found at certain prehistoric sites in the 
Occident. Over its remains passed the road mentioned in the pre- 
ceding paragraph. We had noticed nothing suggesting the former 
existence of a similar causeway at the first gap — perhaps an additional 
indication that the opening there was made at some later period. 

From this point we traced the rampart for some distance farther 
to the west, and found it growing more and more eroded and worn 
away, until at length it practically disappeared save for a few un- 
certain remains. Others, apparently better preserved, we could see 
far away across the river-plain; but these we had not the time to visit. 

Before we leave our discussion of these earthworks, it will perhaps 
be of interest to touch briefly on the probable reason for their enormous 
and seemingly unnecessary thickness. For the tremendous additional 
labor and expense thus incurred can only have been undertaken for 
the sake of providing against some very real and compelling danger. 

During the middle of the first millennium B. C. the arts of war and 
notably of siege-craft made great progress in China. Particularly was 
this true in regard to the use of mines. These were employed, then 
as later, for two purposes: the one, to gain direct access to the interiors 
of beleaguered towns ; the other, to overthrow their ramparts and thus 

11 These upward-curving roof corners were a post-Han development in Chinese architecture. Until long 
after the beginning of tbe^Christian era, Chinese roofs had straight lines. 



AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL — BISHOP 575 

effect a practicable breach for a storming party. The latter aim the 
Chinese military engineers of that day did not achieve with the aid 
of explosives, then still unltnown in China as elsewhere. Instead, 
they timneled beneath the earthen city walls and there excavated a 
large chamber whose ceiling they supported by means of stout tim- 
bering; this they then set on fire, thus causing it to give way and 
allow the section of rampart immediately above it to drop into the 
cavity. 

The earliest mention in Chinese literature of this proceeding, so far 
as I know, dates back to around the beginning of the fourth century 
B. C." and the passage would imply that it had already then been 
known in China for some time, perhaps even as much as a century 
or two, although scarcely more than that. For prior to around the 
middle of the first millennium B. C. the methods employed by the 
Chinese in the capture of walled towns had been chiefly those of 
surprise, escalade, or blockade. As in the Occident (e. g., at Croton 
in 510 B. C. and at Mantinea in 385 B. C), so in China also, rivers 
were sometimes diverted against city walls and made to undermine 
them. It seems to have been sHghtly later (i. e., after the middle of 
the same millenium) that in both China and the West there came 
into use the above-described method of breaching walls by mining. 
It was employed in the latter region, for instance, at the siege of 
Megalopolis by Polyperchon ^^ in 318 B. C. and at that of Abydos 
by Philip V of Macedon in 200 B. C. 

It is only fair to say, however, that the best military opinion in 
ancient China, such as that of Sun Tzu,^^ was in general opposed to 
the investment of fortified places, preferring rather to bring about 
their surrender by overcoming the enemy's forces in the field. 
pin any event, against a rampart so massive and a moat so wide 
and deep as those which wo saw at old Ch'ang-an, even the most 
effective methods of siege-craft known to the ancient Chinese must 
have been well-nigh powerless. The capital of the Hans, though 
seated in a wide plain and so owing nothing of its strength to natural 
position, must have been as nearly impregnable to direct assault as 
was ancient Babylon. 

The space inside the ramparts was, we found, a slightly undulating 
plain dotted with the mud hamlets of the local peasantry and with 
clusters of small modern grave mounds shaded by trees; but for by 
far the greater part under intensive cultivation. As we might expect 
in a city occupied for so long a period (in all about 200 years) as was 
old Ch'ang-an, the present surface of the site, within the walls, was 

" Mo-tzu, chap. 14, par. 62. 
1* Formerly miscalled "Polysperchon." 

n Also called Sun Wu; fl. 4th century B.C. On his writings see Giles, Lionel, Sun Tzu on the art of war 
(trans, from the Chinese, with notes), London, 1910. 



576 



ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



on the whole distinctly higher by several feet than was the surround- 
ing country. Accumulations of downwash from the inner slopes of 
the earthen walls have no doubt been responsible for some of this 
rise in level; but much — probably most — of it was certainly the direct 
result of long continued human occupation. Similarly, the level of 
the area inside the walls of Peking, inhabited continuously for a period 
roughly three times as long as was Old Ch*ang-an, is today in many 
places from 20 to 30 feet higher than it was originally. 

Immediately west of the city proper, and separated from it by the 
much eroded remains of two parallel earthen walls of no great size 
which ran north and south about a hundred feet apart, we came upon 
the old palace-enclosure of the Han emperors. The surface here also 
was somewhat undulating in character. Some of the slight irregular- 
ities in level made us wonder whether they might not conceal the 




1 i ■ ' ' 

B I C 





FiGUBE 2.— Plan and elevation of Wei Yang Kung Palace foundation-mound, Old Ch'ang-an. 

remains of ancient buildings; for the records speak of a number of 
palaces. The ground here, however, just as in the city proper, had 
been so long and so continuously under the plow that all surface indi- 
cations had disappeared, except at one point. 

Here, some hundreds of yards ahead of us, a little to the south of 
west, we saw a long mound in several superimposed stages, with its 
major axis extending due north and south and perhaps coinciding with 
that of the palace-city itself. This mound, our Chinese companions 
told us, had been the foundation platform of the principal edifice in 
the old palace complex, the celebrated Wei Yang Kung already men- 
tioned (for its plan and elevation see fig. 2). 

We found the ground-plan of this interesting construction that of 
a long rectangle, with comers surprisingly well defined considering 
its age. The total length was 450 yards, its breadth 145 yards, and it 



AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL BISHOP 577 

was built in five stages, of which the highest, near the northern end, 
rose some 50 feet above the surrounding fields. It had been con- 
structed of successive layers of terre pise like those forming the ram- 
part that we had just been examining, and was now thinly covered 
with grass save for patches of cultivation here and there, and for a 
few great stones of which we shall speak in a moment. 

Exactly at the center of the southern end of the rectangle we found 
traces of an approach or gradual ascent of some kind, apparently a 
ramp (marked A on the accompanying plan, fig. 2), about 100 feet in 
width east by west. It extended north, sloping gently upward the 
while, for some 70 feet, to the level of the top of the lowest terrace 
(B on the plan). The surface of the latter, aside from the ramp, was 
practically level and extended for 156 yards imtU it came to the second 
stage (C), marked by a sharp rise or step of 2 feet. From this point 
north, a slight upward slope brought us to another abrupt rise of 2 feet 
marking the beginning of the tliird terrace (D). The ground thence 
continued rising gently until, 95 yards stUl farther north, it reached the 
edge of the fourth stage (E). This was a steep earthen bank some 
10 feet high; from its southern face there projected a somewhat lower 
platform of earth (F), now much eroded but apparently once rec- 
tangular in form ; its ends were in exact ahgnment with the borders of 
the (unpaved) avenue of approach, which we had been able to trace, 
intermittently, up to this point. 

The mound culminated in a long, narrow terrace (G) about 12 
yards wide north and south and extending east by west for some 65 
yards; its fairly level top stood about 6 feet higher than the preceding 
stage. Here, at the apex of the mound, was a commemorative stela 
encased in brickwork (H), erected in the year 1695 at the behest of 
the great Manchu emperor commonly called by Europeans K'ang-hsi. 

The rearward or northern end of the mound descended to the level 
of the fields about it in a series of imequal and now much eroded 
stages — the borders of the successive terraces just described. These, 
however, projected far less beyond one another here than they did on 
the south; the total distance from the center of the uppermost stage 
to the northern edge of the lowest amounted only to some 50 yards, as 
against about 400 yards in the opposite direction. 

Scattered here and there over the surface of the great rectangle 
were several large water-worn boulders, already mentioned (these I 
have not indicated on the plan (fig. 2) as we were too straitened for 
time to determine their positions even approximately). These were 
not grouped or arranged in any regular order. They rested directly 
on the tamped earth of the mound at varying heights above ground- 
level, and could only have reached their present position through 
human agency. According to the surmise of our Chinese companions, 
they may have been ornaments in some garden or pleasance within the 



578 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

ancient palace. It seemed clear at all events that they had not ful- 
filled any structural purpose. 

The Wei Yang Kung mound as we saw it, even in its present state 
of nakedness and desolation, possessed a certain aspect of dignity and 
proportion and balance. Rising out of a level plain, and covered as it 
was during Han times by stately buildings (probably with painted or 
lacquered columns and brightly colored roofs of tile)," it must have 
presented a most inspiring spectacle to all who beheld it — to the native 
subjects of the Son of Heaven themselves as well as to the visitors from 
many lands, some of them in the distant West, who we know thronged 
the capital city of the Hans. 

In China the walls of cities have retained their usefulness as in 
perhaps no other country. An instance of this occurred a few years 
ago, during a civil war. The attacking force attempted to use poison 
gas; whereupon their opponents retired inside a walled town, closed 
its gates, and found themselves quite safe. City walls have been 
placed in repair (although probably not constructed de novo) in China 
in very recent times. The study of their development there through 
so long a period is therefore particularly instructive. 

The earthworks at old Ch'ang-an, dating as they do from an epoch 
when China's Bronze Age had only comparatively recently become one 
of Iron, are especially worthy of study. During the few hom's that we 
were able to spend there, we saw enough to convince us that systematic 
and extended excavation would beyond doubt yield results of very 
great interest. Moreover, the nature of the site was such as to lend 
itself particularly well to survey by airplane. Vertical air photo- 
graphs of its varied features would be of especial value and would be 
almost certain to reveal details which had escaped our notice on the 
ground. 

'* Rooflng-tiles of baked clay seem to have come into use in Ctiina during the Eastern Chou period (770- 
255 B. C). By Han times, from around 200 B. C. onward, those used to cover important buildings had be- 
gun to be painted in bright hues. It was not until the epoch of the Six Dynasties, well after the commence- 
ment of our era, that the practice arose of covering them with colored glazes. 



THE NATURAL LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT 



By H. E. WiMPEKis, C. B., C. B. E., D. Eng., F. R. Ae. S. 



[With one plate] 
INTRODUCTORY 

The more I think about the subject chosen for this address, the 
rasher does it seem. To proclaim limits to human flight is to do two 
things. To say what can be done, and to suggest what cannot. 
Now, though there may be little rashness in the one, there is much 
in the other. If I say that such and such a thing can be done and 
someone in the distant years points out that actually it has not been 
done, my shade has the easy reply that achievement requires effort 
and that my critics should use their brains. But if I suggest that 
certain boundaries cannot be crossed, what fun for the coming race 
of engineers who cross them (if they do), than to poke fun at the 
memory of your lecturer to-night! ^ 

It must be rash since wise men have diligently avoided such issues. 
Can one think of any engineer who has endeavored to lay down for 
all time, what is the height of the highest skyscraper than can be 
built, or the longest bridge there can ever be thrown across a river, 
or the fastest motor car that the world will see? Again, does any 
ship builder dare specify a natural limit to the size of future ships 
or to the power of the engines they wUl carry? 

Why in the field of aeronautics is this rashness found? It must, I 
submit, either be because the subject is so well knit to its scientific 
foundations that prophecy is tempting, or else, I tremble to say it, 
that the impetuous youthfulness of aeronautics blows caution to the 
winds. But if impetuosity be the key to the answer, I urge that by 
assembling this row of aeronautical ninepins, I encourage the resource- 
fulness of coming generations by providing them with the zest of 
knocking them down. And that, I think, is worth doing. 

The globe on which we live is a nearly spherical ball 8,000 miles 
across. Its highest mountain, like its deepest sea, is about 5 miles 

' Presidential address delivered before The Royal Aeronautical Society on Monday, April 26, 1937. Re- 
printed by permission from The Journal of the Royal Aeronautical Society, vol. 41, No. 324, December 1937. 
» And when I use the word "flight," I mean flying with wings and not the flight of a projectile. 

579 
114728—39 38 



580 



ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



from the surface. Let us make a model. We take in our hands an 
8-inch globe to represent the earth and show on it all mountains and 
all seas. The noblest mountain will project but one two-hundredths 
of an inch, and the greatest sea be a depression of no more. In 
handling such a globe, it would be difficult even to feel the rouglmess 
of the mountains or to detect the dampness of the ocean. Still more 
surprising is it, that if the Bristol airplane were actually flying through 
the atmosphere at the ceiling of its record-breaking height, it would 
only just be possible to squeeze under it a sheet of ordinary writing 
paper! 
This shows the scale of things in true proportion. We are confined 

PROGRESS OF WORLD'S 



SPEED RECORD. 





600 




S50 




500 




450 




400 




350 


z 


300 


z 




Q 


250 


UJ 




ItJ 

OL 


200 


to 






150 




100 




50 




iiiMMiBinMirr 



XE 



' I I M M I 



1910 



1915 1920 

FlQUBE 1. 



I9J5 



to a very thin shell in which to move and have our being and this is 
the first of nature's bounds to the limits of human flight. If ever we 
are to hatch out from our shell, we must discover some lifting power 
which does not require an atmosphere. 

It is easy to forget that our present attainments in human flight 
have all grown from the endeavors of a single generation. Our 
immediate predecessors in the air followed a much more leisurely 
course. Prof. JuHan Huxley ^ writes of bird evolution: 

One thing at least is certain and significant; whereas in the general stock of 
mammals, progress was being made and new and specialized lilies budded out 



'Bird watching and bird behavior. 



LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT — WIMPERIS 581 

up till a mere 5 or 10 million years ago, the birds settled down to stability about 
half-way through the Teritiary Epoch, about 20 or 30 millions of years back, 
and since then, though they have doubtless sprouted out innumerable tiny side- 
twigs of new species and genera, do not seem to have made any real evolutionary 
progress. 

Nor, he adds, are they in the least likely to achieve any in the future 
since they appear to have reached the limit of perfection attainable 
in the circumstances prevailing upon the earth, by the kind of creature 
which they are. Mankind has certainly speeded up the previous 
rate of aeronautical evolution. 

HIGH SPEED 

I think I cannot do better than approach the problem of the attain- 
ment of high speed than by quoting from the Creevey papers. The 
adventure related, took place just over 100 years ago. 

To-day we had a lark of a very high order. Lady Wilton sent over yesterday 
from Knowsley to say that the locomotive machine was to be upon the railway 
at such a place at 12 o'clock for the Knowsley party to ride in if they liked, and 
inviting this house to be of the party. So of course we were at our post in three 
carriages and some horsemen at the hour appointed. I had the satisfaction, for 
I can't call it pleasure, of taking a trip of 5 miles in it, which we did in just a 
quarter of an hour. * * * xhe machine was occasionally made to put itself 
out or go it; and then we went at the rate of 23 miles an hour. * * * But 
the quickest motion is to me frightful: it is really flying, and it is impossible to 
divest yourself of the notion of instant death to all upon the least accident happen- 
ing * * * Altogether I am extremely glad indeed to have seen this miracle, 
and to have travelled in it. Had I thought worse of it than I do, I should have 
had the curiosity to try it; but having done so, I am quite satisfied with my first 
achievement being my last. 

Perhaps it was his last but others were more adventurous. Around 
the attainment of high speed, immense human interest has always 
centered. The breaking of such records now rank as international 
events, and the world probably spent a million pounds over the last 
Schneider Trophy race. It is estimated that the "record" has been 
rising steadily for 25 years at an average rate of 15 miles per hour 
annually. Where is this to stop? Must it stop? 

The attainment of very high speed depends upon combining great 
engine power with low airplane drag. It is less obvious how it will 
depend upon the altitude of fhght. The latter question, however, is 
very important, and perhaps we may consider it first. As we increase 
height we decrease air density, and therefore decrease drag, so that 
flying at altitude, if speed is desired, seems good sense; but this 
simple conclusion is complicated by the engine factor and several 
others. Let me deal first with the engine. The engine power is as 
much affected by change of air density as is the drag, and how do 
these conflicting tendencies balance the one against the other? This 



582 AliTNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



is, I think, most easily seen by drawing a single curve showing for a 
representative design the amount of engine power necessary at all 
heights in order to produce a specific level air speed. With such a 
curve sheet (kindly drawn for me by Mr. A. R. Collins) it is simple to 
add a graph showing the power which would be given atfeach height 
by the engine; then when the engine is shown by the curve sheet to 



"H 



T 






A. HoR4e Power BecoiPEO Fojj uniform aip speed I 


\ 




\ 


FOR 


<IGH SPEED AESoPLANE 


(300 M-P.H.) 


\ 


V 


\ 


B . HOEJ 


E Power For a Norm/' 


I- UNSUPERCHARSED EM' 




\ 


\ 


C. HOR' 


E. Power Foe an Ensi 


<E Superchacgeoto 




\ 


\ 


2000C 


' ASSUMING A V.P. AIRS 


CREW WHICH ENABLES 




\ 
\ 

\ 
\ 


, \ 


ENGI 


IE TO BE RUN AT CONS, 


TANT e.P.M. AND 




\ \ 


. CONS 

\ 

V 


TANT BOOCT fteOM 6E* 


Level TO 20000. 




\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 




\ 

\ 


. 






\ 
\ 
\ 






\ 






\B 




\A 


H 






. ... ^^ 












\ 
\ 




\ 


\ 






\ 




\ 


■s. 






\ 


i 


\ 




X 






\ 

\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 


\ 












\ ■ \ ■■ 
\ \ 




/ 








\ \ 




1 








\ > 












\ 


v 


1 








\ 


\ 


1 


. 






\ 


\ 


1 








\ 


\ 










\ 


\ 


1 








\ 


\ \ 
\ \ 


1 

1 






















\ \ 
\ \ 
\ \ 


1 










\ \ 


$ 


■ 








N \ 
N \ 
S \ 
N \ 


1 










\ \ 


V 



' BRAKE Horse PoweR . 

Figure 2.— Power against altitude for constant speed. 

be giving more power than is required for the basic speed chosen, it is 
clear that a higher speed is attainable. A glance at this illustrative 
diagram shows that this increase of speed is at its maximum at the 
rated height of^,the engine (i. e., the height at which the supercharger 
just maintains the^power at its sea-level value), and that afterward 
the surplus power, and, therefore the additional speed, will fall off till 
the two curves cross, which they do at the altitude at which the speed 



LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT — WIMPERIS 583 

is again at its original value. This diagram shows in a simple way 
that merely pushing up the height of flight without paying attention to 
the way in which the engine is affected by that height would be 
foolish. Merely pushing up the altitude will not give greater speed. 

Moreover, increase of altitude brings in other effects which we must 
not ignore. One is that when flying near the ceiling, the angle of 
incidence is increased, and with that increase comes a growth in the 
relative proportion of induced drag to parasitic drag; this formerly 
quite small fraction now becomes too large to be ignored and its 
effect is to bring down the speed attained. Further, there has to 
be considered the effect of change in Eeynolds number with height of 
flight. 

The Reynolds number is too well known to need description, but it 
is less well known that change in that number as an airplane climbs 
to a height has an important and adverse bearing on the drag coeffi- 
cient. For a given wing, wing loading, and angle incidence, the 
dynamic pressure (}2pV^) is the same at any altitude. But since 
Reynolds number is proportional to both density and air speed 
(ignoring for the moment any change in the viscosity of the air which 
affects but does not change the conclusion), it follows that the Rey- 
nolds number must fall as the air speed rises; hence the Reynolds 
number at a high altitude of flight, despite the higher speed, wiU be 
lower than at a less altitude.* Any lowering of the Reynolds number 
means an increase in the drag coefficient for both laminar and turbu- 
lent skin friction. Hence for flight at altitude one must allow a higher 
drag coefficient than would correspond to sea-level conditions. This 
is a factor adverse to attaining great speed at height. 

Apart from these particulars, the question of getting the highest 
possible speed is one of providing an airplane which, while comfortably 
containing pilot and engine, will have the minimum amount of 
"wetted" area in proportion to engine power. Obviously, the body, 
must be such as to house the pilot comfortably ; this provides a certain 
cubic capacity for the engine space in front of him, which in turn 
governs the amount of power that can be derived from the engine. 
Would one get any more speed by building a more spacious airplane? 
Since a 10 percent increase in dimensions would put up the engine 
power possibilities by 30 percent and the wetted area by only 20 
percent, it is clear that one could, although with the disadvantage of 
an increased landing speed. For any size of aiiplane, however, the 
amount of power available related to the drag coefficient which cor- 
responds to turbulent skin friction, gives a definite limit to the speed 
attainable unless some method of getting still more engine power from 
that given space, or of reducing (if we know how to) some part of the 
drag to the lower level which corresponds to laminar flow. As Relf 

• Of. Von Karinan on The problem of resistance in conapressible fluids, Rome, 1936. 



584 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

pointed out in his 1936 James Forrest lecture, to make the flow remain 
laminar over the whole surface would be to reduce the drag to one- 
tenth of the values now normal. This I do not think we shall ever 
attain, but whether we do or not, we can at least ensure that wing 
surfaces shall be made exceedingly smooth, particularly near the 
leading edge and very particularly on the upper surface of the wing; 
and we can see that when flush riveting cannot be used, the shape, and 
place, of the rivets is such that they do not project through the laminar 
layer. Steps can also be taken, now that the technique is known, to 
reduce greatly the engine cooling drag — even if it may be to convert 
it most marvelously into a small thrust. 

Action on these lines applied to the designs of today soon brings 
one close to the most formidable of all nature's fences; that is the 
natural limit to the speed with which the air is able to get out of the 
way of the advancing airplane. The speed at which air can move 
when pushed is the same as the velocity of sound, and once the 
airplane speed approaches this boundary, it becomes more and more 
difiicult to push away the air in front. And there is nothing we can 
do to increase the velocity of sound. 

Perhaps we should study the mechanism more closely. When a 
body moves it compresses the air just in front of it, and the resulting 
pressure is communicated to the air farther ahead. This communi- 
cation is, as I have said, carried out at the velocity of sound in the 
medium. In air of normal sea-level pressure and temperature, this 
velocity is 750 miles per hour. At greater altitudes it is less, not 
because the pressure is less, but because the temperature is. If the 
temperature were everywhere the same, the velocity of sound would 
not change. Actually the square of the velocity is directly propor- 
tional to the absolute temperature, so that in the stratosphere instead 
of being 750 miles per hour it is only 650 miles per hour. 

What precisely happens when the speed reaches this Hmit? When 
that happens, the air ahead cannot be "warned" of what is coming. 
This leads to as many shocks and collisions as if an unlighted motor 
car tried to get through a crowd of deaf people on a dark night. 
When an airplane moves as fast as, or faster than, the velocity of 
sound, collisions with the air particles are inevitable and there will 
be an enormous loss of energy, through conversion into heat in the 
resulting shock waves. Hence, the drag coefiicient rises to a high 
value as the velocity of sound is reached, and although it subsequently 
recovers somewhat, it still remains very much higher than the sub- 
sonic figure. Moreover, every roughness point on the airplane 
produces its own shock wave and therefore its own particular loss of 
energy. It is true that the lift coefficient also increases at this time, 
but the ratio of the lift to drag is substantially reduced and a less 
efficient airplane results. To some extent this might be thought to 



LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT — WIMPERIS 585 

be overcome by a change of wing section, but since the wing section 
cannot well be changed during flight, no compromised wing section 
can be the best both at subsonic and supersonic speeds. 

The forms of aerofoil employed for the air speeds customary today 
have been studied unremittingly — even exhaustively. Much less is 
known of those suited to supersonic speeds though work on airscrews 
gives us some lead. But it seems that sharper leading edges will be 
needed and wings less deep than at present. Even so, the best lift 
to drag ratios may be nearer 5 than 20, and this, if it continues, will 
have striking consequences. Let us consider what could be the 
physical requirements of an airplane flying at a speed equal to the 
velocity of sound. An airplane weighing a ton will have a drag of 
one-fifth of a ton on wing drag only, and perhaps as much as one- 
third of a ton over all. This for a speed equal to the velocity of sound 
will require 1,500 horse-power per ton — and, as this is the net figure, 
the gross may be roughly put at 2,000. But a present-day engine of 
this size would require the whole of this weight allowance and there 
would be none left for the airframe and its contents! If speeds such 
as these are to be attained it cannot therefore be by the engine as we 
know it today. 

In point of fact the limit to speed is reached even more rapidly than 
these considerations indicate, since the air speed just above the top 
of the wing is appreciably higher than the air speed of the machine 
itself. Hence the critical boundary will be reached while the air 
speed of the airplane is still substantially below the velocity of sound. 
Taldng everything into consideration, there is much to be said for 
assessing the maximum possible speed of level fiight with the present 
type of engine as over 500 but less than 600 miles per hour. It is 
true, however, that if we could suppress everything but laminar drag, 
or if there were some entirely new prime mover invented giving vastly 
greater thrust than an internal combustion engine of the same cubic 
capacity (even one using the very latest fuels of the highest octane 
numbers), it might be still possible to force the airplane through the 
air at even higher speeds. But there is not the lease present indication 
of either of these being practically possible. So 600 miles per hour 
is likely to remain the limit to the speed of human flight. 

The highest speeds today are all sea-level speeds, but the greatest 
speeds in the near future are likely to be attained at high altitudes, 
though as they will be the achievement of military types we shall not 
hear much about them; a few years later they will again be attained 
at sea level — since at sea level the velocity of sound barrier is not so 
soon encountered. At sea level, therefore, it is that human flight 
will reach the limit imposed by nature's unclimbable fence. 



586 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

THE POWER OF MANEUVER 

In many forms of aircraft, power of maneuver is vital. Does the 
increasing speed of flight have any effect on this vital requirement 
whether because of a limit to the endurance of the human body or of 
the airplane itself? It is also important to laiow whether we are 
approaching some physiological limit to either the rate of climb or the 
vertical speed of dive. We are all more or less familiar with what is 
known as caisson disease. This trouble arises when a diver working 
under several atmospheres of pressure, with much nitrogen absorbed 
into his blood, comes to the surface and the surplus gas bubbles out as 
the pressure is relieved. During the climb of an airplane, the atmos- 
pheric pressure is also gradually relieved, but here the rate of change 
of pressure is so slight, and the total change of pressure so small, that 
the physiological effect is unimportant. Since, however, the rate of 
dive is vastly greater than any possible rate of ascent, it is reasonable 
to ask whether in this more rapid action physiological difficulties may 
not occur. Here an arithmetical parallel is of service. Even if we 
take a direct dive through 8,000 feet at as high a speed as 400 miles 
per hour, the total change of pressure is no more than any swimmer 
would encounter who dived 10 feet deep into water; moreover, the 
total time taken by the air dive, some 7 or 8 seconds, does not represent 
anything more sudden than would be encountered by such a swimmer. 
We may, therefore, conclude that there is little to fear in this case also. 
As Wing Commander G. S. Marshall, of the Eoyal Air Force Medical 
Service, put it in his lecture ^ to the Society: "Power dives are done at 
the almost unbelievable speed of 30,000 ft. per minute without ap- 
parent harmful biophysical effect." As regards acceleration in taldng 
off, or deceleration in landing, these are not anything to which the 
human frame does not easily adapt itself. This applies also to the 
catapulted take-off. The acceleration to which we are aU subjected 
in a motor car driven in normal London traffic is just as severe. 

There are, nevertheless, other accelerations which arise during ffight 
which are of a totally different character. These are the ones due to 
centrifugal force. An airplane steadily banked on a turn at 45° will 
impose a horizontal force on its occupants equal to their own weight 
and this combines with the normal weight of the body so that the total 
weight on the passenger's seat is increased by almost half as much 
again. Banking at 60° would double this load. 

There are also large centrifugal forces introduced when an aircraft is 
suddenly pulled out of a dive. In almost any aircraft the controls are 
so powerful that it is mechanically possible for the pilot so to manipu- 
late the elevator as to break a wing. Of course, for this to happen the 
acceleration imposed has to be exceedingly great, equivalent, perhaps, 

» Royal Aeronautical Society, January 1933. 



LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT — WIMPERIS 587 

to 12 times the gravitational acceleration, commonly known as 12 g. 
It fortunately happens, however, that the human body shows warning 
signs of distress long before the|airplane. When, for instance, an 
acceleration force of 5 g. is encountered, the body is affected in the 
same way as it would be were the blood suddenly increased to five 
times its normal specific gravity. The effect, naturally, is that the 
blood seeks a lower level, and by denuding the brain of its normal 
share, causes the failure of visual faculties known as "blacking out." 
This produces no permanent effect, but for the time being the pilot sees 
nothing, and even though he still maintains control of the machine, it 
is a control unguided by any visual information from either the instru- 
ment board or the external world. Even higher accelerations than 
this have been endured by pilots, though not with any degree of hap- 
piness. I have read of an American experience of 11 g. requiring sub- 
sequent hospital treatment, and of 15 g. leading to a complete crash, 
though in the latter case it was difficult to distinguish between the 
results of human failure and the failure of the airplane structure. 
Nature does then impose a definite limit to the safe rate of pulling out 
from a dive and that limit is a physiological one and difficult to modify 
by human ingenuity. One alternative is to await the long process of 
normal human evolution and another to induce pilots to adopt the 
prone position when flying — the one change might take as long to 
bring about as the other. 

It will be natural to ask what happens to the human frame when the 
acceleration comes in the opposite direction, that is toward one's 
head instead of toward one's feet. This is what happens in the 
maneuver known as "the bunt," and there then arises a suffusion of 
the brain by more than its normal supply of blood, leading to what is 
Imown as the "redding out" of vision. This maneuver is, however, 
always a dangerous one and on it authority frowns. 

We have lastly to consider what I mentioned first, the effect on 
maneuver of the steadily rising air speeds of modem aircraft. The 
relationship is a simple one. The measure of the acceleration which 
has so marked a physiological effect is proportional to the product 
of the angular rate of turn by the linear velocity. If, therefore, the 
linear velocity be doubled, as has indeed happened over a com- 
paratively short range of years in typical aircraft, the rate of maneuver 
must be halved if the safe acceleration limit is not to be passed. It 
follows from this that as machines become more and more speedy, 
so they must become less and less maneuverable. The effect of this 
on the dog fighting of the past is outside the scope of this address, 
though it is an interesting subject on which to speculate. 

Let the speeds of aircraft increase as they may, the speed of nerve 
impulses in the human pilot will remain unchanged, namely, about 
100 meters per second. Moreover, as in other means of signalling. 



588 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

terminal delays need to be taken into account. It appears that when 
a nerve impulse starts from, say, the hand to reach the brain, the over- 
all time taken for the response is very much longer than that of the 
mere passage of the signal along the nerves. This time lag before 
the brain is able to act on information received was, I feel sure, an 
important factor in some tests carried out a number of years ago at 
Farnborough. It was then thought that it would be a good thing 
if an indication could be given to the pilot when he pulled out from a 
dive, of the moment when he put on an acceleration higher than was 
safe. This indication was given by having inside the control lever 
a tiny accelerometer unit which, when the acceleration passed any 
set limit, say, 4 g., jerked the pilot's hand. The jerk warned him that 
it was advisable to slacken off the rate at which he was pulling out. 
The instrument worked well, but the idea failed because although the 
indication was given to the pilot's hand and thence to his brain, the 
airplane was too quick for the combination. Careful laboratory 
tests showed that it was impossible for the pilot to push the control 
lever forward in less than one-fifth of a second after the indication 
had been given by this device to his hand. In actual flight the time 
lag might be longer. In the words of the report ^ presented to the 
aeronautical research committee: "In the case of intentionally violent 
use of the controls no warning however swiftly given could be of serv- 
ice to the pilot." 

Incidentally, anyone who wonders what an acceleration of 5 g. is 
like can obtain the information without getting into an airplane at all. 
Consider a child swinging in an ordinary garden swing. If the child 
swings up to such a height that he can just see the horizon over the 
top bar he will experience as he rushes past the bottom of the swing 
an acceleration force of 3 g. If the swing be of the fair type with 
iron rods in place of ropes we can in theory, at any rate, start the 
swing from the very top (so that the poor child is inverted and has to 
be strapped in). In this extreme case the acceleration force when the 
seat swings through its lowest position will be exactly 5 g.; and this 
it will always be whatever the height of the swing or the weight of the 
child. 

The effect of applying to the human body a steady lateral acceler- 
ation can also be illustrated by an ingenious device at the University 
of Gottingen, where a cylindrical room is mounted on bearings so 
that it may be rapidly rotated. People standing in that room see 
nothing but a dial to tell them that the room is being rapidly turned 
round, but the effect upon their limbs when they try to use them, 
and still more on their mental sensations when they suddenly incline 
their head serves to show how easy it is to deceive the brain as to what 

« R. & M. 1446. 



LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT — WIMPERIS 589 

is taking place. The relation of this to the spinning airplane is of 

interest. 

THE EXTREME ALTITUDE OF FLIGHT 

I come now to the problem of high flying. What are the conditions 
which limit the altitude of flight? We Imow that the higher one flies 
the lower the air density and the smaller, therefore, the quantity of 
oxygen that passes into the human lungs and into the engine cylinders. 
The engine itself is really almost human. It breathes in air, it takes 
in fuel, it changes it chemically, gets rid of waste products, maintains 
its own warmth and does not like being either too hot or too cold. 
Like the human body it is liable to suffocation and needs super- 
charging or the equivalent thereof. There are two effects to consider, 
the effect of oxygen want in the human body and of a similar lack in 
the airplane engine. It so happens that the effect on the former 
operates much more rapidly than it does on the latter. Both are 
accustomed to working imder normal atmospheric conditions at sea 
level where the pressure is about 15 pounds per square inch, and the 
proportion of oxygen in the atmosphere about one-fifth of the whole. 

We are fortunate in having a careful study of this question in a 
lecture delivered by Prof. G. T. R. Hill before the Royal Society of 
Arts in 1935. I think his conclusions are entirely correct — certainly 
on this point — and it is worth summarizing them. Since the air 
pressure at 35,000 feet is just one-fifth of what it is at sea level, it 
follows that human beings will be as well off with oxygen at that alti- 
tude as by breathing ordinary air at sea level. But experience has 
shown that even without any artificial supply of oxygen, flight at 15,000 
feet is possible; the lungs can adapt themselves to that condition of 
slight oxygen starvation — provided that no particular bodily exertion 
is called for. Supplying pure oxygen at 42,000 feet would correspond 
to this same degree of starvation. But when 45,000 feet is reached 
oxygen starvation reaches the fainting point — a condition similar to 
that which arises in the absence of oxygen at some 20,000 feet. The 
supply of pure oxygen to the pilot, maldng the oxygen richness approxi- 
mately five times as large as it would otherwise be, has, therefore, the 
effect of postponing the normal fainting point for the average pilot to 
some 45,000 feet, which corresponds very closely to the altitude 
records obtained in recent years when the pilot was fed in this way. 
Thus Uwins reached some 44,000 feet in 1932, and Donati 47,000 in 
1934, The opinion expressed by Wing Commander G, S. Marshall ^ 
some 4 years ago was that while the safe limit of height for a person 
breathing pure oxygen was 44,000 feet on a flight straight up and down 
again, he would not state this to be the Hmit of possible human endur- 
ance. How high birds can fly I do not know, but Hugh Ruttledge 

' Eoyal Aeronautical Society, January 1933. 



590 



ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 



showed in a recent lecture on an Himalaya climb a photograph of a 
lark sitting on her eggs at a height of 18,000 feet. And I suppose she 
did not get there on her feet! 

The existing altitude record of 50,000 feet, obtained in 1936 by Flight 
Lieutenant Swain in a Bristol airplane, was reached in a different way. 
In this case the pilot was enclosed in a suit — rather like a diver's 
suit — wliich could be kept at a pressure of several pounds per square 
inch liigher than that of the external atmosphere. Oxygen is pre- 
ferred for such a suit because of the lower pressure requu'ed and hence 
the greater ease of movement. Actually 2K pounds per square inch 

PROGRESS OF WORLD S 



ALTITUDE RECORD. 



5 30,000 



^3 20.000 

< 



■BIMMiriBaillMIMMIII 



1905 



1910 



1915 1920 

FlGUEE 3. 



' ' I ■ I I !■■ 



1925 



1935 



1940 



is found to be a convenient pressure, and such a suit has been tested 
in a low pressure chamber to a "height" of 80,000 feet. 

Of course, one may go further than a special suit and provide an 
enclosed cabin in which a suitable internal pressure is artificially main- 
tained. Although there would be grave objections to this in a military 
aircraft, there would be none in civil machines other than perhaps a 
reluctance to face the necessarily cramped space in which the occu- 
pants would be confined. Although the temperature is low in the 
stratosphere, flight at high speeds brings its compensation, since any 
entering air would be heated by compression by the number of degrees 
centigrade that is equal to the square of the speed in hundreds of miles 
an hour, e. g., 9° centigrade at 300 miles per hour. 



LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT — WIMPERIS 591 

By these expedients it is possible, theoretically at any rate, to 
postpone indefinitely the failure of the human mechanism, and the 
limit to the altitude performance becomes solely that of the engine. 
Does nature here impose a definite limit? At 50,000 feet the air 
density is but a ninth of that at ground level, and since for practical 
reasons there is no question of supplying the engine with oxygen, the 
task of supercharging the cylinders adequately is a severe problem, 
beyond the capacity in fact of any single supercharger. Efforts to 
increase the altitude still higher than the present hmit must impose 
more and more severe duties on the supercharging mechanism, which, 
therefore, must needs increase in bulk and weight. In the limit, this 
very increase in weight makes the attainment of higher altitudes more 
difficult. So far as present day possibilities in design are concerned, 
I may cite the estimate given by Mr. Barnwell in his lecture at Bristol 
in February last that if one went "all out" for an altitude record, a 
height of 61,000 feet should be attainable. 

There must at any future time be a design limit to what is possible 
in the light of the materials then available, but it would be rash to 
forecast finality since the one thing which does seem limitless is the 
fertility of the brain of a designer once new materials become avail- 
able. At present we have no means of predicting what new materials 
may arrive in the future. We are but beginning to grope our way 
through knowledge of crystal lattice structure towards a coming 
technique of alloy design. 

THE RANGE OF FLIGHT 

It is far from easy to find any Hmits imposed by the laws of nature 
on the greatest distance that an airplane can fly without refuelling. 
How, for instance, does range of flight depend on the size of the air- 
craft, the power of the engine, and the height chosen? It is sometimes 
thought strange that airplanes of what I may call the same vintage, 
using the same fuel and with equally efficient engines, show when 
flying at their most economical speed precisely the same figure of 
ton-miles per gallon (the figure is the same as that commonly obtained 
in the ordinary motor car). This is true whatever the size of the air- 
plane may be, and whatever the altitude of flight. I suggest that 
the simplest way to understand this seemingly strange result is this. 
At aU air densities there is one particular incidence for a given air- 
plane which gives the maximum value of the ratio of lift to drag, and, 
therefore, the lowest value of the drag for that particular airplane. 
Hence, when flying level at this incidence, the lift being equal to the 
weight, the drag must have a constant value. (I ignore for the 
moment the effect of any change of weight due to fuel consumption.) 
Now, with a constant drag force the work done to cover a specific 
distance through the air must be a fixed and definite amount, inde- 



592 



ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 



pendent of the air density, and, therefore, of the altitude of flight. 
If the engine is equally efficient at all air densities, it follows that the 
work done by the engine must also be the same for any given distance 
through the air, whatever the altitude. Hence, the minimum ton- 
miles per gallon must be independent of the altitude. There is no 
advantage, therefore, under still air conditions, in flying high ui order 
to beat the record for range of flight. 

In practice, of coiu-se, one has to allow for the fact that the total 
weight will gradually diminish as the fuel is used up. And in normal 
flying one must also allow for the consideration that flight at a speed 

PROGRESS or WORLD'S 
DISTANCE RECORD. 




Figure 4. 



which corresponds to the most efficient incidence may not always be 
operationally convenient, and that is what is found convenient 
cannot but be related to the speed of the prevailing wind, and since 
winds vary with altitude, the problem is complex. 

Nevertheless, it is a convenient starting point to realize that for 
air planes having engines of a given efficiency using specific fuels, the 
maximum possible ton-miles per gallon tends to be independent of 
altitude. Hence, the natural limit to range of flight depends far 
less upon the altitude than upon the attainment of high engine econ- 
omy, of low airplane drag, and of so low a structure weight as to allow 
really large fuel tanks to be carried. 



LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT — WIMPERIS 593 

Messrs. Rockefeller and Moore have recently published a forecast 
that a range of 20,000 km without refuelling may ultimately be 
attainable. If they are right, we shall attain a range enough to enable 
every single spot on the earth to be reached from every other — a 
conclusion which will please those who have neat minds, but alarm 
those who love solitude. 

SOME REFLECTIONS 

I think it would be fair to say of all of us that our reflections on this 
intense aeronautical activity are mixed; even confused. There is the 
view expressed by Lord Trenchard many years ago (Cambridge in 
1925), that if he had his way he would ''abolish the air." The same 
view was wittily expressed recently by a writer in "Truth" — "What 
a pity, though, that the Creator, when he made flight so difficult to 
achieve, did not do the job thoroughly and make it absolutely impos- 
sible!" But — "Unfortunately, as Adam and Eve learnt to their cost, 
it is easier to obtain knowledge than to escape from its consequences." 

There is, however, another side to this great question. The fears 
expressed are largely those engendered by a form of warlike attack 
against which there is thought to be little or no defense. But the 
struggle between attack and defense has taken place in all ages, and 
with all forms of weapon; sometimes the pendulum swings in favor of 
the one and sometimes in favor of the other. With aircraft, the attack 
has for years been in the ascendant, the pendulum is even now over 
on that side; but tliis I am glad to think is a passing phase, and 
already the pendulum is on the move. 

May I quote two striking sentences used by Colonel Lindbergh 
during a recent visit to Germany — "The responsibility which we incur 
by creating a powerful destructive force is lightened by the knowledge 
that this force is being controlled by reason and experience, and that 
we have separated such a force from ignorance. I find hope in the 
belief that power which goes hand in hand with knowledge will not 
be a menace to civilization." 

As I suggested by way of comfort at one of our recent meetings, no 
country can become materially strong in the new Arm of the Air unless 
there exists in almost limitless degree noble gallantry in its young men, 
and fine intelligence in the engineers charged with the development 
and construction of this Arm. Changes now in sight will, I am certain, 
call in future years for these great qualities even more intensely. 
And though the qualities of gallantry and fine intelligence may perhaps 
not be the supreme human qualities, they are, nevertheless, most noble 
ones, and it is a happy thought that those countries alone which 
possess them can become great in the strength of the new Air Arm. 



THE HISTORIC AMERICAN MERCHANT MARINE 

SURVEY 



By Frank A. Taylor 
Curator, Division of Engineering, United States National Museum 



[With 11 plates] 



The progressive development of watercraft can be discussed intel- 
ligently only with accurate knowledge of the actual designs of hun- 
dreds of specialized types of craft. The lack of such knowledge has 
resulted in unsatisfactory generalizations about the designs of many 
vessels which have figured prominently in our history and over- 
emphasis upon relatively unimportant but better described types. 
It is true that several authorities in the past have made compilations 
of designs of watercraft and in more recent times many plans of im- 
portant individual vessels have appeared in textbooks and professional 
publications. But these are scant records of a large and involved 
development and they have been used almost to exhaustion by stu- 
dents and writers. Most of the inferences in regard to the develop- 
ment of watercraft have been drawm rightly or wrongly from these 
too meager sources. 

Plans of early naval vessels are preserved in the archives of national 
admiralty oflBces and are reasonably available, but there are no com- 
parable collections of plans of merchant vessels. In the United 
States about a half-dozen museums, libraries, and universities and an 
equal number of collectors and students have worth wliile collec- 
tions. The bulk of these, however, relates to large merchant vessels 
of the period of 1840 to 1885 which were built at well-established yards 
where the models and plans from which they were built were fortu- 
nately preserved. Though much of the missing information has been 
irrecoverably lost, there is in existence a large quantity of invaluable 
evidence which requires to be sought out and preserved. It was to 
secure as much as possible of the passing evidence now available and 
to put it into form for preservation and distribution that the Historic 
American Merchant Marine Survey was created. 

The scheme of the Survey as conceived by its originator and director, 
Eric J. Steinlein, was to establish a project of the Works Progress 
Administration to employ unemployed professional people and 
mechanics from the ship and boat building industries to make marine 
architectural drawings, photographs, and written reports describing 
old vessels. The records produced were to be preserved and made 

595 

114728--.S9 39 



596 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 8 

available for study in the Watercraft Collection of the United States 
National Museum. The sources of information for the records were 
in most instances old vessels stUl in existence and in other cases the 
authenticated models, plans, and tables of dimensions in collections 
not readily available for study. The distribution of the sources indi- 
cated a national set-up, and regional offices were established wherever 
the supervisory and operating personnel could be organized to func- 
tion within the limited time originally determined upon as the life 
of the project. Regional offices were established at Portland, Maine: 
Boston; New York; Wilmington, Del.; Baltimore; Hampton, Va. ; 
Jacksonville; Tampa; Chicago; and San Francisco. Though the 
life of the project was extended from time to time, it is unfortunate 
that no single extension was for a sufficient length of time to justify 
creating new regional offices other than those originally established. 
It is obvious that many localities where there have been important 
developments of watercraft were not reached by the Survey. 

The actual operation of the Survey fell largely upon the regional 
supervisors, many of whom were authorities on the subject and were 
persuaded to undertake the work out of a spirit of pubUc service, 
while others were selected upon the recommendations of museums, or 
students of watercraft in the localities. These men in turn selected 
their personnel from local unemployed pools and organized field sur- 
vey parties and drafting offices. The supervisors, upon suggestions 
from the Director, made preliminary surveys of their localities and 
submitted reports upon vessels and material available for survey and 
in return received instructions as to the order in which the work should 
be undertaken. Priority in most cases was given to vessels or material 
in immediate danger of being lost or destroyed and to desirable vessels 
due to be hauled out for painting or repairs. The drawings, photo- 
graphs, and reports were completed under the direction of the regional 
supervisors and sent to Washington with the original field notebooks 
for 1^ the approval of the Director and acceptance by the National 
Museum. The surveys accepted total 270 vessels, 677 drawings, and 
545 photographs which, with field notes and reports, are readily 
available for examination and study at the Museum. Negatives of 
drawings and photographs are kept on file and prints of both are dis- 
tributed upon order at nominal cost. 

The file of well-executed drawings and supporting material produced 
by the Survey is beyond question one of the outstanding compilations 
of designs of American watercraft. Descriptions of a few surveys 
will indicate the scope and character of the work. 

Typical of the surveys of local types are those of the scow schooners 
of San Francisco Bay. These vessels are descended from the first 
boats built in Cahfornia after the gold rush and several, converted 
to power, are in use today in much the same trade as the first ones. 



MERCHANT MARINE SURVEY — TAYLOR 597 

At one time more than 100 were in use carrying hay, grain, gravel, 
and bricks about the bay and tributary rivers. They appear to have 
been built by "rule of thumb" or the experience of one generation 
of builders passed on to the next, and no plans have been found. 
The last one was built in 1904, though one built as long ago as 1870 
was made the subject of a survey. The drawings show shallow- 
draft, scow-ended, flat-bottomed vessels of simple construction, well 
suited for sailing in shoal waters and for beaching on an even keel 
for loading where there were no wharf facilities. They ranged in 
length from 60 to 90 feet, with 65 to 75 feet the most popular size. 
None of the vessels surveyed was rigged for sail, but original sail- 
makers' draughts suppUed the details for the restoration of sail 
plans. The schooner rig with main gaff topsail was the most popular, 
though some were without topsails, some had fore and main gaff 
topsails, and a few were sloop-rigged. Early photographs show the 
scows carrying enormous deck loads of hay with the sails reefed high 
to clear the load and the helmsman steering from a pulpit built up 
10 or 15 feet above the deck. 

The same waters have produced many other distinctive types of 
craft of which the oddest is, perhaps, the felucca. It is a small 
lateen-rigged, double-ended, open boat formerly employed by the 
ItaHan fishermen of San Francisco Bay. Unlike any other American 
type, its sweeping, slanting spars were patterned on those of Medi- 
terranean boats familiar to the Italians. Toward the end of the last 
century scores of these fished m the Bay, but only one could be found 
recently to survey for the purpose of preserving its design. An effect 
of the survey of this particular boat was to focus attention upon it as 
probably the last remaining one of its type with the happy result 
that it was subsequently acquired by the Mariners' Museum for 
preservation. 

Other interesting local craft, large and small, too numerous to 
describe in detail, were surveyed and drawn up wherever the Survey 
operated. Great Lakes schooners and steamers of many periods, a 
collection of Mackinaw fishing boats, and a Wisconsin logging bateaux 
indicate the variety of some 60 surveys produced by the Chicago 
ofl&ce. 

In Florida, surveys were made of the greatest variety ranging 
from the sponge sloops of Greek influence to old sternwheel river 
steamers. These last are represented by two steamers built in 1870 
and 1898, the wrecks of which still remain. They were important 
links in the transportation of travelers before the railroads ran along 
both coasts and across the State. They typify the period when the 
slowness and hardship of travel were compensated for by the leisure 
to observe the details of the country. The steamers, for example, 
were equipped with iron baskets to carry burning light wood to 



598 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 8 

illuminate the banks while young officers called "Alligator on the 
left," "Alligator on the right," or "Low trees!" for the entertainment 
and safety of the passengers on the cabin roof. 

The sui'vey personnel working from Hampton, Baltimore, and 
Wilmington turned in excellent surveys of the Chesapeake Bay and 
Delaware Bay types as well as of the large wooden ships built in 
great numbers in the j^aids about Wilmington. The surveys of 
Chesapeake Bay log canoes of many types from both ends of the Bay 
provide the first complete collection of data for a comprehensive 
study of this craft. A number of the drawings were reproduced 
even before the completion of the Survey in Chesapeake Bay Log 
Canoes, in 2 volumes, by M. V. Brewington (Mariners' Museum, 
Newport News, Va., 1937). 

The New York office served principally as a draughting office and 
did good work in finishing drawings from data fed to it by other 
offices not so well staffed with draughtsmen. An outstanding original 
contribution was made in the drawings of the lines of the famous 
cUpper ship Sea Witch, designed by John W. Griffiths in 1846. It 
is the first time that these lines made from an original drawing in the 
possession of the granddaughter of Griffiths have been available for 
study. 

New England, as might be expected, was a fertile field w^here the 
problem was not to find subjects to survey but to select the most 
useful evidence to preserve. Two different undertakings there will 
indicate the scope and caliber of the work. Permission was obtained 
to secure the fines of half models in a fittle-known and not readily 
accessible private collection representing the vessels operated by one 
family firm during the larger part of the nineteenth century. This 
collection includes half models of vessels built from 1849 to 1872, 
represents the work of some 26 different builders, and illustrates the 
development of the American merchant ship by some of the finest 
examples of marine architecture of the period. The period was one 
of the most active and interesting of American merchant marine 
history and the collection represents vessels of the preclipper or packet 
types, clippers, and modified clippers, and the later so-called down- 
easters. 

Contrasted with this was the survey of the Piscataqua River gunda- 
low, descendant of colonial hay barges and distantly related to the 
river and lake gun-boats of the Revolutionary War. Alluded to as 
early as 1650, scowlike vessels propefied by poles were used in the 
bays and rivers of New England to transport salt, lumber, marsh 
grass, etc. In the Piscataqua region these barges developed into 
fully decked, spoon-bow vessels, with lateen sails and leeboards. Of 
exceedingly shoal draft to go into the shallowest tributaries, they 
could carry more than 30 tons of cargo, and in the strong tideways of 



MERCHANT MARINE SURVEY — TAYLOR 599 

the river were, reputedly, the match of yachts built for speed alone. 
They were propelled by a small sail bent to a slanting yard suspended 
from a chain on a stump mast so rigged and balanced that the yard 
and sail could be brought down almost to the deck to pass under 
bridges and raised again with the least possible inconvenience.^ 

In addition to the file of material described, the Survey had an 
inestimable value in the preservation of the skill and interest of crafts- 
men of the shipbuilding industry, as well as a record of some achieve- 
ment in instructing young men and partially skilled personnel in 
more advanced branches of their work. Many men were called from 
employment on the Survey to old or new positions in the industry. 

The Survey was terminated as a Federal project in October of 
1937, though several offices have been continued as State projects 
under local sponsorship. Copies of drawings and other material pro- 
duced by these projects are being currently offered to the National 
Museum for preservation with the main collection. 

APPENDIX 

A partial list of types and dates grouped under the Survey oflaces is as follows: 

Portland, Maine. — Bay and river steamers, 1900-1907; schooners, 1873-1891; 
ship Mount Washington, 1840. 

Boston, Mass. — Fishing schooners, 1856-1936; coasting and other schooners, 
1854-1888; ships and barks, 1846-1873; Tancook whaler, 1909; Whitehall boat, 
1860; No Mans Land boat, 1898; U. S. Revenue schooner, 1833; North River 
sloop, 1836; Friendship sloop, 1902; waterboat, 1866; sloops, 1876-1896; 
sharpies, 1900; gundalows, 1886-1936. 

New York, N. Y.— Ship Sea Witch, 1846; HeU Gate pilot boat, 1886. 

Wilmington, Del. — Coasting and trading schooners, 1874-1877; bark Sarah S. 
Ridgeway, 1877; oyster schooners, 1904-1926; clam and oyster garveys: stur- 
geon and pot fishing skiffs; steamer John G. Christopher, 1892. 

Baltimore, Md., and Hampton, Va. — Log canoes, 1835-1898; bugeyes, 1885- 
1902; sloops, skipjacks, 1852-1899; schooners, 1856-1899; fishing bateaux, 1920- 
1928; scow sloop, 1874; tow-boat, 1883; sail plans of Bay craft, 1862-1901; 
sloop Frances and pilot schooner Mary Taylor, 1849; Staten Island oyster skiff. 

Jacksonville and Tampa, Fla. — Sponge fishing sloops, yawls, dinghies, from 
lateen-rigged Hydra to 1937; Bahama and keys fishing sloops, 1855-1930; 
schooners, 1855-1902; sharpies, 1884-1904; skipjack, c. 1875-1896; Seminole 
dugout, 1837; Nicaraguan cayuca; catboat, 1885; steam tugs, 1883-1895; 
river steamers, 1870-1898; the Danish bark Prins Valdemar, 1892; Long 
Island Sound sand-bagger sloop, 1872. 

Chicago, III. — Lakes schooners, 1853-1895; steamers, 1852-1890; steam tow- 
boats, 1886-1896; steam barges and scows, 1873-1892; canal boat, 1875; river 
scow; scow schooner; sail plans of schooners, 1853-1881; Mackinaw fishing 
boats, 1887-1900; logging bateau, c. 1890; motor passenger boat Gypsy, 1911. 

San Francisco, Calif. — Scow schooners, 1870-1902; ships, barks, and barken- 
tines, 1880-1902; felucca, c. 1900; schooners, 1882-1917; Norwegian cutter 
Gjoa, 1872; steam schooner, Roosevelt, 1905; Diesel tugs, 1914-1923; paddle 
steamers, 1875-1894. 

' a partial list of types of vessels surveyed with their dates is appended. 
114728—39 40 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Taylor 



Plate 2 




1. Bark Emily F. Whitney, 18S0. Amidships section. 




2. Bark Newsboy, 1882. Sail and spar plan forward end. 

SPECIMEN Drawings Produced by the Historic American Merchant Marine 
Survey. (Actual Size of Each 17' x 23".) 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Taylor 



PLATE 3 




]. Schooner Clipiur Cilii. lS5i. Sail plan. 




2. Scow schooner Undine, 1902. Outboard profile 



Specimen Drawings Produced by the Historic American Merchant 
Marine Survey. (Actual Size of Each 17" x 23".) 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Taylor 



Plate 4 




1. Survey field workers aboard scow schooner at San Francisco. 



^ % _ 

^ I 

I, m 



*i\ 



2. Survey draftsman taking measurements of half model at Wilmington, Del. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Taylor 



PUATE 5 




1. San Francisco Bay felucca. Old photograph made in 1889. (From Bureau of Fisheries.) 



H^ 






t^ 




B 




"""^ 


^t. , r -~ 


Hi^ 




"^^j -j .,-. , „ 


mMZ 








__ 





2. Head detail of four-n:asted schooner Commerce built at San Francisco in 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — ^Taylor 



Plate 6 




1. Illinois and Michigan canal barge City of Pekin, 1875. Old photograph. 




2. Lakes steamer Sidney O. Neff, 1890. Originally a tow barge. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Taylor 




S; ~C>TY or 'tH9**HD HnvEr^" 
Buiur I87Z >*T OHmhJD Hf^^SN, MICH I CfiN 



1. Lakes schooner CHy of Grand Haven, 1872. 




2. Wisconsin logging bateau, about 1890. (Courtesy American Legion Logging Museum, Rlainelander, 

Wis.) 



i 

5 

1 

1 




n 


i 

1 




f 


^^lu 




Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Taylor 



Plate 9 




1. Oklawaha River (Florida) steamer Okahumkee built 1870. Abandoned on the river bank. 




2. Chesapeake Bay bug-eye Edith F. Todd, 1902. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Taylor 



Plate 10 




1. Oyster sharpies hauled out at New Haven, 1891. 



^^^B6^i 


^m 


^^T^^Hh 1 'nir*^'" ' '•"•''^-^iH 


^^^^^^^^tHJ^HBl 


^^**'* 




- _ .^- r^-r^^ 



2. Hulk of the last Piscataqua River gundalow, the Fanny M, built in 1886. (Photograph made by Prof. 

A. V. de Forest, 1925.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Taylor 



PLATE 1 1 




SKETCH SHOWING JOINTS FOR'D fiiND P.fT 

THERE ABC AN UNUSUAL NUMBER OF SMALL PCICEe IN THIS CANOE 



■ ■ ■ ■ ■'^T- 



LILIAN L. 



1. Details of logs and joints of Chesapeake log canoe of about 1898. 




2. Lines of the clipper ship Sea Witch built 1846. 

SPECIMEN Drawings Produced by the Historic American Merchant 

Marine Survey. 
(Actual size of drawings, top 17' x 23", bottom 17" x 36".) 



INDEX 

A 

Page 

Abbot, Dr. Charles Greelej', secretary of the Institution iii, ix, xii, xiii, 7, 

8, 15, 27, 36, 38, 42, 47, 55, 65, 97, 100, 101, 103, 107, 111, 114, 120 

Abbott fund, William L 121, 122 

Aldrich, Loyal B xii, 99 

Allotments for printing 120 

American Historical Association, report 115, 119 

Arnon, D. I., Hoagland, D. R., and (The water-culture method for growing 

plants without soil) 461 

Arthropods, The biology of light production in (Maluf) 377 

Arthur fund, James 121, 122 

lecture, seventh 12 

will of 12 

Astrophysical Observatory 1, 5 

report 99 

staff xii 

Austin, Lloyd (Forest genetics) 433 

Avery fund 122 

B 

Bacon fund, Virginia Purdy 121, 122 

Bacon traveling scholarship, Walter Rathbone 11 

Baird fund, Lucy H 121, 122 

Barkley, Senator Alben W. (regent) ix, 2, 7, 8 

Barstow fund, Frederic D _._ 121, 122 

Bartlett, Capt. Robert A 13, 24 

Bartsch, Dr. Paul x, 13 

Bassler, Dr. Ray S xi 

Beach, William N 13, 23 

Becker, Frances E. (See D'Amour, Fred E.) 

Bees, The language of (von Frisch) 423 

Belin, Ferdinand L xii, 3, 30 

Belote, Theodore T xi 

Bingham, Robert W. (regent) 2, 6 

Bishop, Dr. Carl Whiting, associate in archeology, Freer Gallery of Art xii 

(An ancient Chinese capital: Earthworks at old Ch'ang-an) 569 

Blackett, P. M. S. (Cosmic radiation) 175 

Blackwelder, Dr. Richard E 11 

Borie, Charles L., Jr 8 

Boswell, P. G. H. (The floor of the ocean) 275 

Brooks, Charles F., and Thiessen, Alfred H. (The meteorology of great 

floods in the eastern United States) 325 

Bruce, David K. E., vice president, National Gallery of Art xii, 3 

Bruce, Edward 8 

Bryant, H. S., chief of correspondence and documents. National Museum.. xi 

Bundy, John, superintendent, Freer Gallery of Art xii 

Bushnell, David I., Jr x, 13 

114728—39 41 601 



602 INDEX 

c 

Page 

Canfield collection fund 2, 121, 122 

Cannon, Representative Clarence (regent) ix, 7 

Carey, Charles xi 

Casey fund, Thomas L 121, 122 

Cassedy, Edwin G xii, 54 

Chamberlain fund, Francis Lea 2, 121, 122 

Ch*ang-an, earthworks at old: An ancient Chinese capital (Bishop) 569 

Change, A world of (Weidlein) 187 

Chapin, Dr. Edward A _ x, 13 

Chase, Agnes x 

Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and member of the Institu- 
tion) ix, 7 

Chinese capital. An ancient: Earthworks at old Ch'ang-an (Bishop) 569 

Clark, Austin H x, 13 

Clark, Leila F., assistant librarian xi 

Clark, Leland B xiii, 100, 106 

Clarke, Senator Gilmore D 8 

Cochran, Dr. Doris M x 

ColHns, Henry B., Jr x, 26 

Commerford, Lester E., assistant chief of correspondence and documents, 

National Museum xi 

Compton, Dr. Arthur H. (regent) ix, 2, 7 

Cooper, Dr. Gustav Arthur xi, 2, 12, 24 

Corbin, William L. , librarian of the Institution ix, 114 

Cosmic radiation (Blackett) 175 

Crab, Chinese mitten, The (Panning) 361 

Cummings, Homer S., Attorney General (member of the Institution) ix 

Cushman, Joseph A. (The future of paleontology) 317 

D 

D'Amour, Fred E., Becker, Frances E., and Van Riper, Walker (The black 

widow spider) 405 

Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society of the, report. _ 119 

Davis, Harvey N. (regent) ix, 2, 7 

Deignan, H. G 12 

Delano, Frederic A. (regent) ix, 7, 9 

Dingle, H. (Science and the unobservable) 209 

Doan, Charles Austin (Modern medicine — the crossroads of the social and 

the physical sciences) 511 

Dorsey, Harry W., administrative assistant to the secretary ix 

Dorsey, Nicholas W., treasurer and disbursing agent of the Institution ix, xi 

DuBridge, L. A. (Some aspects of nuclear physics of possible interest in 

biological work) 227 

E 

Electron theory (Kloeffler) 241 

Ethnology, Bureau of American 1, 2, 4 

library 54 

publications 53, 119 

report 49 

staff xii 

Exchange Service, International 1,4 



INDEX 603 

Exchange Service — Continued. Pag« 

report 57 

staff xii 

Explorations and field work 12, 20 

Eyes that shine at night (Walker) 349 

F 

Farley, James A., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) ix 

Finley, David E., director. National Gallery of Art xii, 3, 38 

Flight, human. The natural limits to (Wimperis) 579 

Floods in the Eastern United States, The meteorology of great (Brooks 

and Thiessen) 325 

Folsom problem in American archeology, The (Roberts) 531 

Forest genetics (Austin) 433 

Foshag, Dr. W. F xi 

Fowle, Frederick E 100, 103 

Freer, Charles L 123 

Freer Gallery of Art 1, 4 

attendance 45 

fund 123 

lectures 46 

library 112 

publications 115 

report 43 

staff xii 

Friedmann, Dr. Herbert x 

G 

Garber, Paul Edward xi 

Garner, John N., Vice President of the United States (regent and member 

of the Institution) ix, 7 

Gazin, Dr. C. Lewis xi, 25 

Genetics, Forest (Austin) 433 

Geology in national and everyday life ( Mansfield) 257 

Giff ord , Representative Charles L. (regent) ix, 7 

Gilbert, S. Parker 3,30 

Gilmore, Charles W xi, 12, 25 

Goldsborough, Representative T. Alan (regent) ix, 7 

Graf, John E., associate director, National Museum ix 

Graham, Dr. D. C 24 

Guest, Grace Dunham, assistant director, Freer Gallery of Art xii 

H 

Habel fund 122 

Hachenberg fund 122 

Hall, Sir Daniel (Soil erosion: the growth of the desert in Africa and else- 
where) 303 

Hamilton fund 122 

Harriman Alaska Expedition, reports 115 

Harrington, Dr. John P xii, 51 

Henderson, Edward P xi, 12, 25 

Henry fund 122 

Hewitt, John N. B 50, 55 

Hill, James H., property clerk ix 

Hillyer fund, Virgil 121, 122 



604 iin)EX 

Page 

Historic American Merchant Marine Survey, The (Taylor) 595 

History and stratigraphy in the Valley of Mexico (Vaillant) 521 

Hitchcock Library fund, Dr. Albert S 121 

Hoagland, D. R., and Arnon, D. I. (The water-culture method of growing 

plants without soil) 461 

Hodgkins fund, general 122 

specific 121, 122 

Hoover, William H xii, 5, 100, 101, 105, 106 

Howard, Dr. L. O x 

Hrdlicka, Dr. Ale§ x, 13, 22 

Hubble, Edwin (The nature of the nebulae) 137 

Hughes, Charles Evans, Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and 

member of the Institution) ix, 7 

Hughes fund, Bruce 122 

Hull, Cordell, Secretary of State (member of the Institution) ix 

Human flight, The natural limits to (Wimperis) 579 

I 

Ice ages (Simpson) 289 

Ickes, Harold L., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) ix 

International Exchange Service 1, 4 

report 57 

staff xii 

J 

Johnston, Dr. Earl S___ xiii, 105, 106 

Judd, Neil M x 

K 

Keller, Hon. Kent E 8 

Kellogg, Dr. Remington x 

Ketchum, Miriam B., librarian, Bureau of American Ethnology xii 

KiUip, Ellsworth P x 

Kloeflfler, R. G. (Electron theory) 241 

Krieger, Herbert W x, 13, 21 

L 

Leonard, Emory C x 

Lewton, Dr. Frederick L xi 

Libraries of the Institution and branches 14 

report 109 

summary of accessions 112 

Light production in arthropods. The biology of (Maluf) 377 

Lodge, John Ellerton, director, Freer Gallery of Art xii, 38, 47 

Logan, Senator M. M. (regent) ix, 7 

Loring, Augustus P. (regent) 2, 7 

Louis-Jaray, Gabriel (New conceptions of the universe and of matter) — 129 

M 

Maidenhair tree. The story of the (Seward) 441 

Maluf, N. S. Rustum (The biology of light production in arthropods) 377 



INDEX 605 

Page 

Mann, Dr. William M., director, National Zoological Park x, xii, 13, 68, 97 

Manning, Mrs. C. L., philatelist xi 

Mansfield, George R. (Geology in national and everyday life) 257 

Matter, Transmutation of (Rutherford) 201 

Maxon, Dr. William R x 

McAlister, Dr. Edward D xiii, 105, 106 

McNary, Senator Charles L. (regent) ix, 7 

Medicine, Modern — the crossroads of the social and the physical sciences 

(Doan) 511 

Meier, Dr. Florence E xiii, 106 

Mellon, Andrew W 1, 3, 29, 38 

Mellon, Paul, president, National Gallery of Art xii, 3, 30, 36 

Merchant Marine Survey, The Historic American (Taylor) 595 

Merriam, Dr. John C (regent) ix, 7 

Meteorology of great floods in the eastern United States, The (Brooks and 

Thiessen) 325 

Mexico, the Valley of. History and stratigraphy in (Vaillant) 521 

Michelson, Dr. Truman xii, 4, 13, 50 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr x, 12 

Mitman, Carl W xi 

Moore, A. F 101, 102 

Moore, R. Walton (regent) ix, 7 

Morgenthau, Henry, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the 

Institution) ix 

Morris, Roland S. (regent) ix, 7 

Myer fund, Catherine Walden 4, 39, 122 

N 

National Collection of Fine Arts xii, 1 , 3 

acting director 42 

exhibitions, special 4, 42 

library 42, 112 

publications 42 

Ranger fund purchases, Henry Ward 41 

report 37 

National Gallery of Art 1, 3 

acquisitions committee 30 

executive committee 30 

finance committee 31 

list of works of art deeded to National Gallery of Art June 24, 1937.- 34 

report 29 

staff xii 

trustees xii 

National Gallery of Art Commission 38 

National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition to the 

East Indies 5, 13, 68 

National Museum 1, 2 

exhibitions, special 26 

explorations and field work 20 

publications 26, 117 

report 17 

staff ix 

visitors 25 



606 INDEX 

Page 

National Zoological Park 1,5 

accessions 70 

animals in the collection, June 30, 1938 78 

director x, xii, 13, 68, 97 

report 67 

staff xii 

visitors 70 

Nebulae, The nature of the (Hubble) 137 

Nuclear physics, Some aspects of, of possible interest in biological work 

(DuBridge) 227 

O 

O'Brien, Dr. Brian 102 

Ocean, The floor of the (Bosv.-ell) 275 

Oehser, Paul H., editor. National Museum — xi, 117 

Oliver, Lawrence L., property clerk, National Museum xi 

Olmsted, Dr. Arthur J xi 

Olmsted, Helen A., personnel officer of the Institution ix 

P 

Paleontology, The future of (Cushman) 317 

Panning, A. (The Chinese mitten crab) 361 

Parent fund 122 

Pell fund, Cornelia Livingston 122 

Perkins, Frances, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) ix 

Perrygo, Watson M 12 

Phillips, Duncan xii 

Physics, Some aspects of nuclear, of possible interest in biological work 

(DuBridge) 227 

Plants without soil, The water-culture method for growing (Hoagland and 

Arnon) 461 

Poore fund, Lucy T., and George W 122 

Price, Waterhouse & Co 32, 33 

Publications of the Institution and branches 14 

report 115 

R 

Radiation and Organisms, Division of 1,2, 6 

report 105 

staff xiii 

Radiation, Cosmic (Blackett) 175 

Ranger fund purchases, Henry Ward 41 

Regents of the Institution, Board of ix 

executive committee ix 

report 121 

Rehder, Harald A x 

Reid fund, Addison T 122 

Research fund, special 122 

Resser, Dr. Charles E xi, 12, 24 

Rhees fund 122 

Riley, J. H x 



INDEX 607 

Page 

Roberts, Dr. Frank H. H., Jr xii, 4, 13, 52, 53 

(The Folsom problem in American archeology) 531 

Robinson, Senator Joseph T. (regent) 2,6 

Roebling, John A 99, 122 

Rohwer, Dr. S. A x 

Rollins fund, Miriam and William 122 

Roman Orient and the Far East, The (Seligman) 547 

Roosevelt, Franklin D., President of the United States (member of the 

Institution) ix 

"Root-pressure" — an unappreciated force in sap movement (White) 489 

Roper, Daniel C, Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution) ix 

Rutherford, Lord (Transmutation of matter) 201 

S 

Sanfordfund 122 

Schmitt, Dr. Waldo L x, 13 

Schultz, Dr. Leonard P x, 27 

Science and the unobservable (Dingle) 209 

Searles, Stanley, editor. Bureau of American Ethnology xii, 53 

Seligman, C. G. (The Roman Orient and the Far East) 547 

Setzler, Frank M x, 20, 21 

Seward, Sir Albert C. (The story of the maidenhair tree) 441 

Shepard, Donald D., secretary and treasurer, National Gallery of Art xii, 3 

Shoemaker, C. R x 

Shoemaker, Coates W., chief clerk. International Exchange Service xii, 65 

Simpson, Sir George (Ice ages) 2S9 

Smithson, James, bequest 6 

will of 6 

Smithsonian annual reports 115, 116 

Art Commission 3, 7, 38 

consolidated fund 1^3 

contributions to knowledge 1'5 

endowment fund 121, 122 

Gallery of Art 1, 8, 37 

Institution exhibit at the Paris International Exposition, 1937 11 

miscellaneous collections 115 

radio program 1, 9 

special publications 116, 117 

Soil erosion: the growth of the desert in Africa and elsewhere (Hall) 303 

Spider, The black widow (D' Amour, Becker, and Van Riper) 405 

Springer fund, Frank 122 

Stanley, W. M. (The reproduction of virus proteins) 499 

Stebbins, Dr. Joel 99 

Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard x 

Stetson, Harlan T. (The sun and the atmosphere) 12, 149 

Steward, Dr. Julian H xii, 4, 53 

Stewart, Dr. T. Dale x, 23 

Stirling, Matthew W., chief. Bureau of American Ethnology xii, 4, 49, 55 

Strong, Dr. W. D 55 

Sun and the atmosphere. The (Stetson) 149 

Swanson, Claude A., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) — ix 

Swanton, Dr. John R xii, 4, 13,49,50 



608 INDEX 

T Page 

Taylor, Frank A xi 

(The Historic American Merchant Marine Survey) 595 

Thiessen, Alfred H., Brooks, Charles F., and (The meteorology of great 

floods in the eastern United States) 325 

Tolman, Ruel P., acting director. National Collection of Fine Arts__ xi, xii, 38, 42 

Trembly, R. H., superintendent of buildings and labor, National Museum. xi 

True, Webster P., editor of the Institution ix, 120 

U 

Universe and of matter, New conceptions of the (Louis-Jaray) 129 

Unobservable, the. Science and (Dingle) 209 

V 

Vaillant, George C. (History and stratigraphy in the Valley of Mexico) 521 

Van Riper, Walker. {See D'Amour, Fred E.) 

Virus proteins. The reproduction of (Stanley) 499 

von Frisch, Prof. K. (The language of bees) 423 

W 

Walcott fund, Charles D. and Mary Vaux 122 

Walker, Ernest P., assistant director, National Zoological Park xii 

(Eyes that shine at night) 349 

Wallace, Henry A., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution).. ix 

Watkins, William H xi 

Wedel, Dr. Waldo R x, 13, 22 

Weidlein, Edward R. (A world of change) 187 

Weintraub, Dr. Robert L 105 

Wenley, Archibald G., associate in research, Freer Gallery of Art xii 

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, assistant secretary of the Institution ix, x 

12, 20, 24, 27, 111 
White, Philip R. ("Root-pressure" — an unappreciated force in sap move- 
ment) 489 

Whitebread, Dr. Charles xi 

Wimperis, H. R. (The natural limits to human flight) 579 

Woodring, Henry Hines, Secretary of War (member of the Institution) ix 

World of change, A (Weidlein) 187 

Y 

Yaeger, William L 127 

Yaeger & Co., William L 127 

Younger, Helen Walcott 122 

Z 

Zerbee, Frances Brinckle 122 

Zoological Park, National 1, 5 

accessions 70 

animals in the collection, June 30, 1938 78 

director x, xii, 13, 68, 97 

report 67 

staff xii 

visitors 70 

o 



